Garga Hora by Sage Gargacarya 


Jupiter in his own house along with Saturn and Mercury will bestow long life. Such native 
often will beget wealth. Should Venus be in Pisces along with Jupiter and the Moon, the native 
will acquire kingly fortunes and will have many sons and family. Should the Ascendant be in a 
malefic Rasi, while the Lord thereof occupies the 7" house and Jupiter is posited in the 8" along 
with the Sun, the child will die at the age of eight. If Mercury and Mars be together in the 
Ascendant, or 6", or 8", the native will either be a thief, or will indulge in awful acts. Such a 
person will have defect in his hands and legs. Mercury in the Ascendant, or 6", or 8" can cause 
death at the age of 4. Even if the native is dipped in nectar, it will be of no avail. Mars and 
Jupiter in exchange in Rasi will inflict death at the age of 12. Even though Lord Siva may desire 
to save the person, it is rare to escape death in such a case. Should Jupiter occupy a house of 
Mars identical with 2"°, 6", or 8" from Lagna, this child doubtlessly will face death in its sixth 
year. If Rahu occupies the Ascendant at birth, while the Moon is in the 6"/9", the child will die 
within 20 days of birth. Similar effects will prevail, if Rahu is in the 4" from Lagna, while the 
Moon occupies one of the angles. Death will be inflicted by Rahu in the 7" from Lagna, while 
the Moon is in the Ascendant. Even nectar will not be useful to him and the death will come to 
pass in the 10" year of the child. If the Moon is in the 12" from Lagna, while malefics are in the 
6" house, the native will be shortlived. He will suffer from stomachial disorders. If Rahu 
occupies the 9", or the 10", the native will die at 16, though Indra, Lord of Lords, may try to 
protect him. Death will come to pass at the age of 20, if Saturn and the Sun are in exchange 
Rasi. If Rahu is in the Ascendant, while the Moon is in the 6" (or both of them being together in 
the 6") will promote diseases in the rectum, indigestion and deficiency of a limb. Death will be 
caused due to leprosy, or tuberculosis, if the Sun is in 8", while Saturn is in 6". If the Sun is in 
the Ascendant at birth, the native will be subjected to mental worries and will have no place of 
his own. The child will die instantly, if Rahu is in the Ascendant, or in 8" and is in aspect to the 
Moon. Even Indra cannot save such child. The native will have a life-span of 100 years, if two 
Angles are occupied by Jupiter and Venus, while the Sun is in 12" and Mercury is in Lagna. 
There will be no Arishtas (evils), if Jupiter is in an Angle, or in a Trine, or in own 
House/exaltation House, as the Lagna. This will be so throughout the life. There will be no evils 
whatsoever, if one of Jupiter, Venus and Mercury is in an Angle and with positional strength. 
There is no evil whatsoever, if Saturn happens to be in the Ascendant, 3", or the 6" and be at 
the same time in Libra, Aquarius, or Capricorn. If the 2" from the Ascendant is tenanted by 
Rahu, Mercury, Venus, Saturn and the Sun together, the mother will die soon. Alternatively it 
can be the father of the child. if the Sun is in Leo, or in Aries identical with the 6", or the 11" and 
is aspected by a friendly planet, the evils, if any are simply counteracted. Should Rahu be in the 
Ascendant identical with Aries, Taurus, or Cancer and be in aspect to a benefic planet, no evil 
exists in the horoscope. RajaYoga is caused, if Saturn and the Moon are in the Lagna, while its 
trines are occupied by the Sun and Jupiter. Mars should be simultaneously in the 10" house. 
Should the Sun be in the 9" in Leo, the native will not have a surviving co-born. If however, one 
exists, he becomes a king. If Rahu is in Karma Sthana i.e. the 10" house, identical with own 
house and in the company of Mars, Mercury and Venus, the native will sometimes prosper and 
yet sometimes will have downfall. The subject is born in a mean descent, if malefics are in the 
2™, Rahu is in the 3 and Jupiter is in the 5". If the Sun etc. (i.e. other malefics) are in the 4", 5" 
and 9", the native will lose his first issue, while the later ones may survive. Should malefics be 
in the 2"° along with Mars and Saturn, while Rahu is in the 3, the co-born will not survive. 
Chatra Yoga is formed, if all planets are in the Ascendant, 2°, 7" and 12", he will become a 
leader of his race. If the Ascendant is occupied by Venus, 12" by Mercury and the 2™ by a 
malefic, a RajaYoga is formed and the native becomes a king. If the Ascendant is occupied by 
Venus, 12" by Mercury and the 2™ by a malefic, a RajaYoga is formed and the native becomes 
a king. If the Sun is in the 12", the subject will be subjected to penury. The relatives of the 
native will perish, if the 12" and the 7" are occupied by malefics, while the 2"° by benefics. 
There is a RajaYoga, if the Moon and Saturn are in the 2°, while Jupiter occupies Aries and 
Rahu with Venus is in the 10". Should malefics be in the 2", 8" and 12", the native will lose his 
eyes in his 8", or 12" year of age. The co-born will not survive, if Mars is in the 8" house. 
Similar effects prevails, if he joins Rahu and Saturn in the 7" house. The results concerning 


Karma Sthana (i.e. 10 house) will be meagerly felt, if Mars aspects the 10" house occupying 
Aries, or Scorpio, while Mercury is associated with malefics. The native will head many people, 
if Jupiter is in Leo, while Venus is in virgo, Saturn is in Gemini and Mars in in the 4" identical 
with own house. Should Saturn be in Virgo along with the Moon, while Mars is in the sign 
Capricorn, Rahu in Aquarius and, Jupiter in Leo, the native will destroy the band of his enemies. 
One born with such planetary array will not be an ordinary man. He will advance his family to a 
good state and enjoys RajaYoga. The native will indulge in notorious acts at the age of 20 (i.e. 
from his 20" year), if Venus is in Sagittarius, the Sun in Aquarius and Mars in Pisces 
simultaneously. Should a malefic be in the 11 house, while the 5" is occupied by Venus and 
the Moon, the native’s first issue will be a female and such female’s mothers will be subjected to 
many troubles. There will be destruction of relatives, if the 4" is occupied by Rahu, the 2"° by 
Jupiter and the 6", or the 9" by Mercury. Should the 9" be occupied by Jupiter, Mercury, Venus 
and the Moon, the subject acquires success in all his undertakings and will be honoured by a 
king. If both malefics and benefics occupy severally the 6", 8", 5", 9" and the 12", the native 
will be honoured by the king. But he will face many hardships in life. If the 5", 6", 8" and 9" are 
occupied by, respectively, Mars, Rahu, Venus and the Sun, the native will protect his own 
people. If the Ascendant is occupied by Saturn and the Moon, while Venus is posited in the 8", 
the subject will be highly libidinous. Though he will be honoured by a King, he can not enjoy any 
kind of happiness. If the Moon is in Capricorn at birth along with debilitated Jupiter, or with an 
inimical planet and aspected by Saturn, the native will be a source of evil to his own co-born. 
Should Rahu be in Gemini, while Mars is in Leo and Jupiter in Scorpio, the native will be equal 
to a king. If at birth Saturn occupies Aquarius, Mars Capricorn and the Moon Aries, while the 2"° 
house is occupied by the Sun, the subject will enjoy paternal wealth, or his own wealth. If 
Mercury and the Sun occupy the 10", while Rahu is in the 6", the native will lord over many. If 
the Sun is in the 10" in Leo, or Saturn in Libra identical with the 6", or the Moon and Mercury in 
the 9" in Gemini, a RajaYoga is formed. Jupiter in Lagna, while Venus is in the 12" holding the 
other planets in between indicates RajaYoga, this is to the advantage of the native’s family to 
become strong (in all respects). The native doubtlessly becomes a king, if Jupiter is in the 8" 
and Venus is in the 3". All others should be between them. One born in Libra Lagna with 
exalted Saturn, while Jupiter is in Taurus, the Moon in Gemini, Mars in Capricorn, Venus in Leo 
and Mercury in Virgo along with the Sun, will have RajaYoga; he will maintain justice, good 
deeds and auspiciousness in his life. He will however cause Balarishta in the 8", or the 12" 
year. The native will, however, later on prove inauspicious for the elder brother, or sister. If Libra 
happens to be the 2° house, or an angle and is occupied by a malefic, the native only faces 
sheer poverty. He will not prove a good augury for his own people. Should the Moon be in the 
10", while Venus is in the 7" and malefics in the 4", the native’s dynasty ends with him and 
there will be no further descent in his race. The mother of the native will not survive, if Saturn is 
in the 2"°, Rahu in the 3 and Jupiter is in Pisces. Should Mars be in the 7", while Venus is in 
the 8" followed by the Sun in the 9", the native will be shortlived. If Jupiter is in the Ascendant, 
while Mars is not in the 7" and Venus is not in the 8" and the Sun is not in the 9" an auspicious 
Yoga is caused. Such a native will live a long lease of life, will have many co-borns, will head 
many people (i.e. employ many and feed them), will be happy, will lead himself and his co-born 
to a prosperous level, be free from proud conduct and be pleased in all aspects of life. If Saturn 
is in Cancer, while Rahu is in Taurus, the native will be very liberal, will enjoy numerous Yogas, 
I.e. will reach a very high state in life, will be famous, will be chief in his race and will marry 
many women. If, however, the said Saturn is lonely and aspects the 5", there is only one 
marriage. The native will meet with his end, if Jupiter and Rahu are together in the Ascendant, 
or the 4". The end will be in the 13" year even, if Lord Siva may try to save him. (That is, death 
in 13" year is certain). If Mars occupies the 8", while the Sun is in fall in the 5", or the 9" and 
Jupiter must be in accelerated motion. The native is blessed by Lakshmi, the Goddess of 
Wealth. Should Venus be in Pisces along with Mercury, while the Ascendant, 2"° and 3" are, 
respectively, tenanted by the Sun, Moon and Mars, a Raja Yoga is constituted. One born under 
this kind of planetary array will respect Gods and preceptors. He will achieve such fame in his 
own native country and abroad as well, that cannot be achieved by others. It the 12” is 
occupied by Jupiter, while the 2"° house has Saturn, Sun, Mars and Mercury, the father of the 
native will pass away at the time of marriage of the native. If Jupiter is in the 3, while the planet 
Venus is in the 11" the native will be famous among his relatives and will shine, like a lamp 
among the men of his race. If Venus in the Ascendant is unaspected by anyone, while the Moon 
is in the 2" and Jupiter is in the 3, the native cannot enjoy any paternal earnings. Should Mars 
and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo and Rahu is in Gemini, the child will lose its 


mother (early). Should Mars and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo and Rahu is in 
Gemini, this will cause poverty in childhood and happiness in the later part, if the Moon join 
Mars. If Lagna happens to be a malefic sign and is occupied by the said malefic Lagna Lord 
himself, while one among the 4", 7" and the 10" being a malefic sign is occupied by its own 
malefic lord, the child will live only upto six. He will prove inauspicious to its mother. 
Additionally, there will be destruction of maternal relatives, if the 6" house is unaspected by 
Jupiter. The child, who has the Sun in Leo, a malefic in Virgo and Rahu in a malefic’s house will 
only live for six years. The longevity is only for 19 years, if the Moon is in the 8", malefics in 
angles and Rahu in the 10" at birth. If a benefic planet is exalted in an angle, the native will 
acquire a large kingdom and will protect his family. Death of the father is imminent, if a child is 
born with Rahu in the Ascendant and the Sun in the 7", while Mars is between Lagna and the 
7". A child, who has malefics posited in the 7", 12", 3 and 8", will always have an ailing 
physique. Should malefics be in the Lagna, 12" and 8" simultaneously, the child will be 
deprived of its mother instantly, while its father will leave this world in its 4", or 10" year of age. 
1*' Surya, Candr: will have many sons, will not be happy in regard to parents, will be subjected 
to mental worries. Surya, Mangal: will be unhappy about his father, will be wicked, will always 
wander from place to place, will be meanly disposed. Surya, Budh: will not have conveyances, 
will be wickedly disposed, will have ill-reputed history, will commit sinful acts, be forsaken by 
friends and relatives. Surya, Guru: will have little intelligence, will look ugly, will be a dunce, will 
be ungrateful, thievishly disposed and jealous. Surya, Sukr: will hate scholars, will not have 
many children, will be cruel, angrily disposed, will trouble others, be fierce and dejected. Surya, 
Sani: will be a simpleton, be sick, be given up by his relatives and will not possess good 
qualities. Candr, Mangal: wicked, poor, talkative and not virtuous. Candr, Budh: will have good 
speech, will be rich, beautiful, passionate, modest and will be addicted to other women. Candr, 
Guru: will be good-looking, long-lived, very famous, will have attractive eyes and hair on the 
head. Candr, Sukr: will be interested in good affairs, will have very beautiful face, will be 
affluent, interested in being virtuous and dear to king. Candr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will earn 
money in bad ways, will know only bad things, be mean-minded, be attached to others money, 
be won by unsocial elements. Mangal, Budh in the 1*' Bhava: can easily dupe others, will be an 
able speaker, interested in living in foreign countries and will have bad notions. Mangal, Guru in 
the 1* Bhava: will be hard-hearted, will have few sons, will entertain others and will be 
interested in doing bad acts. Mangal, Sukr in the 1* Bhava: will have phlegmatic imbalances, 
will undertake futile jobs, will cheat others, will be ungrateful, will have a valorous son and will 
not achieve success in any of his undertaking. Mangal, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will be interested 
in committing sinful acts, will defy others, be interested in speaking harshly and be fiercely 
disposed. Budh, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be beautiful in appearance, be fortunate, 
splendourous, rich and pleasing. Budh, Sukr: will be connected with royal duties, will be worth 
praising by kings, will be interested in various Sastras, be rich and truthfully disposed. Budh, 
Sani in the 1° Bhava: will be expert in carrying out the orders of the king, will possess a bad 
wife, be indigent and will face obstructions from the public. Guru, Sukr in the 1* Bhava: will be 
dear to king, be inclined to earn more wealth, will have more knowledge in policies, be very rich 
and be an exponent of Sastras to a great proportion. Guru, Sani in the 1** Bhava: will be very 
wealthy, highly educated, be not cunning, will face many risks and be untruthful. Sukr, Sani in 
the 1* Bhava: will be foolish, ungrateful and always attached to his men. Surya, Candr, Mangal 
in the 1** Bhava: will be liked by his elders, be defective limbed, be a liar and be cruel, 
blameworthy and foolish. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 1* Bhava: He will be foolish. Surya, Candr, 
Guru in the 1* Bhava: Will have all auspiciousness, be inclined to be virtuous, be intelligent, 
rich, very powerful on others and be always happy. Surya, Candr, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will 
have auspicious events, be famous, prestigious, wealthy, chief among men and be justly 
disposed. This position bestows an early marriage and an amiable wife. Sirya, Candr, Sani in 
the 1* Bhava: will have a fearful body (i.e. be fierce in appearance), be short lived, sick, sinful, 
capable of promoting quarrels and will be forsaken by relatives. Surya, Mangal, Budh in the 1* 
Bhava: will be very industrious, will always be troubled, be inimically disposed to others, be 
ungrateful and subjected to phlegmatic and windy diseases. Surya, Mangal, Guru in the 1° 
Bhava: will always be proud, be highly egoistic, will possess a fleet of horses and will be keen in 
imparting vices to others. Sdrya, Mangal, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will be chief, justly disposed, will 
have good qualities and be dear to his relatives. Surya, Mangal, Sani in the 1** Bhava: will 
acquire a wife to promote monetary state, be short-lived, be subjected to many diseases, 
untruthful and foolish. Surya, Budh, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be skilful, will advance through 
his undertakings, will befriend many and be an expert in war. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr in the 1* 


Bhava: will be modest, valorous, chief among Brahmins and be happy. Surya, Budh, Sani in the 
1*' Bhava: will be exposed to penury and diseases, will not have good qualities, be unjust and 
be forsaken by his own men and others as well. Surya, Guru, Sukr in the 1% Bhava: will be 
leader of men, be fond of acquiring many children and will be free from enemies and such other 
troubles. Sdrya, Guru, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have more enemies, will have to spend on bad 
missions, will like to commit sins, be defective in some limb and be weak. Sdrya, Sukr, Sani in 
the 1** Bhava: will undertake mean professions to earn money, will suffer poverty, will have 
vices, be fond of wandering and will earn his food by performing Homas etc. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh in the 1* Bhava: will own a fine house to live in, be very wealthy, justly disposed, be free 
from enemies and will earn knowledge in Sastras. Candr, Mafgal, Guru in the 1° Bhava: will be 
happy, very prestigious, be attached to his work, be virtuous, will have many friends and will be 
a great person. Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 1* Bhava: will be subjected to much grief, will have 
vices, will have highly placed relatives, be very intelligent and be bright in appearance. Candr, 
Mangal, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will be ever modest, be fond of guests, be interested in donation- 
giving, be very wise and will stand to gain a lot. Candr, Budh, Guru in the 1*' Bhava: will be a 
king, will possess attractive physique, be very valorous and be always happy. Candr, Budh, 
Sukr in the 1** Bhava: will be very efficacious, attached to the virtuous, will have no knowledge 
of arts (practical, or fine, which are Sani, Budh in the 1% Bhava: in number, such, as music, 
dance etc.) and will be versed in justice. Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 1% Bhava: will marry a highly 
placed lady, will have rich food to eat, be very happy and will donate liberally. Candr, Guru, Sani 
in the 1* Bhava: will not be so efficacious (here Hora Ratna states, that the native will have 
appealing physique), be firm, will be eloquent, inimically disposed to the public, will have 
knowledge of poison (i.e. will deal with poison) and will have interest in bad deeds. Candr, Sukr, 
Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have sons and money, will maintain fasten and other religious 
observations, will have many plans in mind about things to be done, be bright and will have 
good mind. Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 1** Bhava: will always be modest, will gain several ways 
from foreign countries, be famous and be favorably disposed towards his dependants. Mangal, 
Budh, Sukr in the 1* Bhava: will have broad eyes and face, will have properly combed hair, be 
sweet in speech, truthful in disposition and will be easy to be approached. Mangal, Budh, Sani 
in the 1* Bhava: will be unjust, regardless of law, will have bad wife, have few sons and will kill 
animals. Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will be good natured, will be endowed with 
virtues, wealth and children and will be respectful towards Brahmins and Gods. Mangal, Guru, 
Sani in the 1** Bhava: will be phlegmatic, wicked, be won by his wife, be troubled by hunger and 
be a talebearer. Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 1% Bhava: will have a surprising body, be fierce, will 
not have any code of conduct, be inimical to his own men and be confused. Budh, Guru, Sukr in 
the 1** Bhava: will consider money, as most important, be beautiful, attached to women, friendly 
and very valorous. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 1** Bhava: will be subjected to phlegmatic diseases, 
fond of meat etc., will have hard teeth and coarse hair, be hard-hearted and will create terror 
among the people. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have swarthy body, be windy in 
temperament, be libidinous, torturous and very argumentative. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1° 
Bhava: will stick to religious observations, with delight in the contemplation of Supreme Spirit, 
will advocate final Emancipation effectively and be devoid of fear of tens of millions in kind. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 1* Bhava: will be very sickly, will not be good-natured, will 
be interested in sinful acts, be ungrateful and will suffer from physical ailments. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Guru in the 1** Bhava: will be interested in bad acts, sick, sinful thankless, devoid of 
learning, ugly and fearful. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 1** Bhava: will wander 
purposelessly, will cheat others, be interested in blaming and be timid. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Sani in the 1% Bhava: will be interested in being just and be virtuous, will be ugly, forsaken by 
servants and will cheat others. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be very timid, be 
a cheat, be attached to relatives and hardhearted. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: 
will like bad odour, be indigent, foolish, will not have friends and will be defeated by enemies. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 1* Bhava: will be foolish, nightblind, will be interested in 
residing in bad places and be very poor. Surya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 1** Bhava: will be 
untruthful, will have few sons, will speak harshly, will be won over by enemies and will be 
subjected to grief. Sdrya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 1 Bhava: will be dull-witted, have control 
over his senses, be skilful in taking things from others and be honoured for his deeds. Surya, 
Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 1 Bhava: will be auspicious, be dejected with people, will be very fair 
in complexion, will not have much money, will be hard in disposition. Surya, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be very valorous, will have voice, resembling that of a crow, be 
unkind, will have less money and will have physical deficiencies out of sickness etc. Surya, 


Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 1* Bhava: will have interest in sexual affairs, be expert in gambling, 
be unkind, more phlegmatic in temperament and be not bright in appearance. Surya, Mangal, 
Guru, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, will have vices, be very miserable and 
unkind. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have fearful eyes, will spend in bad 
ways, will wear rags and will be dejected with his wife, but attached to his son. Surya, Mangal, 
Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will not be efficacious, be always insulted and be fickle-minded. 
Surya, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 1 Bhava: will have ugly eyes, be unkind and disturbed. Surya, 
Budh, Guru, Sani in the 1* Bhava: will do irreligious things in times of danger, will serve mean 
people, be ill-natured, shameless and will face troubles from the king. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr, Sani 
in the 1** Bhava: will be given to anger, will have wicked wife, will always be a servant and be 
forsaken by his relatives. He will be inimical to all. Sdrya, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1% Bhava: will 
promote quarrels, be wicked, be immodest and will always move with sinful persons. Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will possess a very dark and long body, will be interested 
in fighting, will suffer from bloody disorders and will poorly dress himself. Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will not have sons and wealth, will have ugly ears, teeth and eyes, be a 
voracious eater, be ascetic and wicked. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have 
uneven legs, ugly hair and ugly teeth. Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr in the 1** Bhava: will have un 
ugly physique, ugly nails and ugly sides, will indulge in acceptable deeds and will be a tale- 
bearer. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 1 Bhava: will be very famous, be helpful to others, be 
free from enemies, be attached to his sons and affectionate to his preceptors. Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will be endowed with sons and a fleet of horse, be interested in 
SAstras, will destroy sinners, be quite famous and be pure-hearted. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani 
in the 1* Bhava: will be foolish, be phlegmatic and windy, dear to preceptors and be not proud. 
Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have horrible notions, be long-bodied, will wear 
twisted hair, as an ascetic, be not virtuous, subject to skin afflictions and will suffer from itches. 
Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1* Bhava: will be a bald-headed, fearless, learned, black in 
complexion and be in auspicious. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1** Bhava: will be very 
efficacious, will have good (i.e. beautiful, or strong) nails, be tall, patient, will have beautiful 
hands and be fair complexioned. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be 
very wealthy, be interested in Sastras, be dear to elders and be attached to his sons. Sirya, 
Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 1 Bhava: will be important by virtue of his good qualities, be 
good looking, be devoted to help the public and liberal in giving donations. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 1* Bhava: will beat (or kill) firmly, be unkind, will be strong bodied 
and be bereft of wisdom. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 1 Bhava: will be firm in 
disposition, very efficacious, cruel, be a poet, be famous and dejected. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Guru, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have wounded body, will eat voraciously, be unjustly disposed, 
be very splendourous and be highly given to sexual feelings. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani 
in the 1* Bhava: will have interest in others wealth, will have long penis, will be full of veins, will 
have foul smell in the body and be cruel. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will 
be endowed with sons, learning, wealth and relatives and will have attractive eyes, ears, teeth 
and nose. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 1** Bhava: will have sickly body, will be bilious 
and phlegmatic in temperament and will always move in forests. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr, 
Sani in the 1** Bhava: will have own business, will have income through arts, be liberal in giving 
away gifts and will be endowed with all pleasures. Sdrya, Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1* 
Bhava: will be free form grief and fear, be inactive, or foolish due to some sin, or blemish and 
will be highly pious. Sdrya, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 1 Bhava: will consider justice, as 
the most supreme aim, will have virtues, be truthful, be dear to the virtuous and will have 
pleasing looks. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will be subjected, troubles by 
abundantly, labouring, will be extremely emaciated, skilful in soending, expert in guess, be 
devoid of wealth, be phlegmatic, expert in promoting quarrels and will cheat. Surya, Mangal, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1 Bhava: will be worshipped by Lord indra (i.e. so superior a person), 
will eat and drink abundantly, will be interested in possessing conveyances, will possess 
attractive eyes and be unkind. Surya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will consider 
piousness, as supreme, be a good singer, be very strong, very happy and truthful. Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will be interested in comforts will always be pure 
and clean, will be interested in listening to auspicious stories, will have a beautiful body and be 
the leader of men. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 1 Bhava: will have good knees and 
feet, will follow elders in respect of fame, wealth and happiness, be interested in performing 
sacrifices, worship etc. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have more gains, 
will be subjected to fear, will contact be venereal diseases due to sexual union with poor women 


and will wander. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will be endowed with 
happiness, will have a fleet of horses, will have many friends, be proud, dear to good people 
and will befriend elders. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have loss of 
horses, will practice self restraint, will present an artificial disposition (while inwardly he will be 
of a different nature), will be pious and will have parents with him. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 1° Bhava: will consider money, as the most important aim, will have knowledge of 
Sastras, will win his five senses and will be pious to the Almighty. Sirya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr in the 1° Bhava: will be helpful to others, wicked, cruel, will be subjected to grief and 
be virtuous. Sdrya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will be subjected to great 
penury, be devoid of enemies, be extreme in nature, will be forsaken by his caste, will have 
defect in limbs, be very sickly broken-hearted and modest. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 1° Bhava: will be hard hearted and will always be insulted by others. Sdrya, Candr, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts and will have 
many kind of diseases. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 1° Bhava: will have vices 
and various diseases. 2"° Surya, Candr in the 2"° Bhava: will not have money, will be ungrateful, 
will always possess bad disposition, will not be splendourous, will be subjected to diseases and 
fear. Surya, Mangal in the 2" Bhava: will suffer from penury, be shameless, unkind and sinful. 
Surya, Budh in the 2” Bhava: His body will be full of boils and wounds, he will not have any 
property, will be bad in disposition, will be bereft of servants, be troubled by others and will be 
subjected to much grief. Surya, Guru in the 2" Bhava: will be immodest, will be troubled, 
interested in committing sinful acts, be eloquent in speech and will contact difficulties in foreign 
countries. Surya, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be cruel in nature, attached to basemen, will have 
many enemies, will instil fear in others and be not bright in appearance. Surya, Sani in the 2" 
Bhava: will contact many diseases, will approach others in vain, be unkind, be not angry and 
will not join the virtuous. Candr, Mangal in the 2"° Bhava: will be ruled by the public, will have a 
dejected wife, will look old, be ungrateful, be a servant, be wicked and bright in appearance. 
Candr, Budh in the 2"° Bhava: will be very rich, be free from vices and dear to the king. Candr, 
Guru in the 2° Bhava: will be a king, will be splendourous, be interested in virtues, will destroy 
enemies, will have many sons and be liked by the public. Candr, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will have 
virtue, as his wealth, will be either a king, or a minister, will have many friends and will be 
attached to his son. Candr, Sani in the 2" Bhava: will not have any wealth, will follow bad 
course, will be troubled by enemies, be argumentative in nature and his relatives will perish. 
Mangal, Budh in the 2" Bhava: will lose wife and wealth, be subjected to blemish, will contact 
diseases, will not possess good qualities and will not patronize his relatives. Mangal, Guru in 
the 2" Bhava: will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, will have few sons and will be blamed in 
arguments. Mangal, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, will have few 
sons and will be blamed in arguments. Mangal, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will have wealth, grains, 
pearls and such other precious stones, will acquire few sons and be untruthful. Budh, Guru in 
the 2" Bhava: will have knowledge of Supreme Spirit, will head a town, or be equal to a king, be 
wealthy, will have virtues worth respect and will be expert in mathematics. Budh, Sukr: will 
acquire a fleet of horses and elephants, be very wealthy, wise, virtuous, truthful and will be dear 
to Brahmins. Budh, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, fierce, wicked and will join 
bad elements. Guru, Sukr in the 2 Bhava: will be chief among kings, will be endowed with 
honour, wealth and army, will honour good deeds, will live by praise and valour and will be 
successful. Guru, Sani in the 2" Bhava: will be troubled by kings, be quite sickly, greedy, be 
free from enemies and be not happy in any respect. Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be bereft of 
sons and money, be dirty in appearance, cruel and will perform bad acts. Surya, Candr, Mangal 
in the 2" Bhava: will not be wealthy, be troubled by others, be not efficacious, be cruel and will 
be troubled by fear. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 2°° Bhava: will be timid by nature, be indigent, 
will have a bad wife and will experience grief by his own bad acts. Surya, Candr, Guru in the 2"° 
Bhava: will have gad sons, will torture others, be sensuous, ungrateful and will instil fear in 
elders. Sirya, Candr, Sukr in the 2 Bhava: will indulge in enmity with friends, will have 
conveyances, will not have much wealth, will look ugly, will depend on elders and be given to 
anger. Surya, Candr, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will be ungrateful, be interested in visiting foreign 
countries, interested in gambling, will face troubles, be not virtuous and be with little wealth. 
Surya, Mangal, Budh in the 2"? Bhava: will be a dunce, a spendthrift, be truthful, will have a 
prodigal son, be shameless and be devoid of friendliness. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru in the 2" 
Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, be wicked, will have a lean body and will earn enmity in service. 
Surya, Mangal, Sukr in the 2? Bhava: will not have common sense, will be forsaken by many, 
will prove a bad servant, be interested in battle and will lose property. Sdrya, Mafgal, Sani in 


the 2" Bhava: will have a polluted physique, be devoid of qualities and wealth, be fond of 
promoting quarrels, be sick at all times and will be condemned by good people. Surya, Budh, 
Guru in the 2"° Bhava: will have many wounds and boils in the body, be blamed, wicked, be 
troubled by people and will wound other’s feelings. Surya, Budh, Sukr in the 2" Bhava: will be 
always insulted, will look, like a lion, be sensuous, miserly, will face ups and downs and be a 
simpleton. Sdrya, Budh, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will derive help from his own people, will be 
indigent, be fierce, be not virtuous and be a simpleton. Surya, Guru, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will 
be dull-witted, not learned, unwise, will lose property, be defeated and be a miser. Surya, Guru, 
Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be given to much anger, be troubled by diseases, be interested in 
promoting quarrels, be devoid of righteous deeds and be very indigent. Surya, Sukr, Sani in the 
2™ Bhava: will be interested in acts, which are not righteous, be wicked, immodest, troubled and 
will indulge in gad acts. Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 2" Bhava: will be subject to vicissitude, be 
harsh in speech, be scandalous in money matters, be childless, ge fiver to much anger, will 
suffer from diseases and be forsaken by his relatives. Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 2"° Bhava: 
will be poor in status, be devoid of wife, issue and wealth, be very greedy and will suffer from 
diseases. Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 2" Bhava: will be troubled by diseases caused due to 
phlegmatic disorders, will not respect his preceptors, be very justly disposed and will be banned 
from the purview of Sastras. Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be naturally wicked, be 
fond of alcohol, be interested in gambling, be a dejected soul and be forsaken by his relatives. 
Candr, Budh, Guru in the 2° Bhava: will be a king, will be insulted much, be beautiful land will 
be endowed with learning and riches. Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 2 Bhava: will be affluent, will 
have a number of friends, will be learned in Sastras, be virtuous, be very learned and be always 
affectionate. Candr, Budh, Sani in the 2" Bhava: will be efficacious and helpful, be a spendthrift, 
be subjected to grief on account of his wife, ge a donor and will cheat others. Candr, Guru, Sukr 
in the 2" Bhava: will be happy, will have good ideals, be a king, be very famous, be very wise 
and will have a questionable (mean) profession. Candr, Guru, Sani in the 2"! Bhava: will be free 
from anger, will be interested in good conduct, be sweet in disposition, will be attractive and will 
be affectionate to his son. Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 2"° Bhava: will be devoid of ideals, will not 
have any wealth, be very wicked, be attached to other's wives, will wander aimlessly and will be 
tortured by his libidinous disposition. Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will consider justice, 
as the most supreme ideal, be an agriculturist, will pull carts, will own fleet of quadrupeds and 
will have many friends. Mafgal, Budh, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be very angrily disposed, will 
be fond of meat and flesh, will be interested in possessing weapons, will torture others, will 
spend much and be a source of grief to his own people. Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: 
will be and expert artisan, will take to righteous path, will perform penance, will possess 
attractive body and be fearless. Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 2"¢ Bhava: will possess good robes, 
will enjoy much of pleasures, will be interested in women, will be an able speaker, be interested 
in Sastras, be very wealthy and very attractive. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 2™ Bhava: will be a 
king, will own a fleet of superior class of elephants and horses, be very affluent and be attached 
to his relatives. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will become superior by his righteous acts, 
be famous, be useful (to others), be very kind and be garrulous. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 2™ 
Bhava: will have a strong and prominent belly, will be interested in various sciences and to be 
truthful, be a drunkard, but will be piously attached to Lord Krishna. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2™ 
Bhava: will be endowed with sons and wealth, will be a scholar, be justly disposed, be happy, 
be very affectionate and splendourous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 2" Bhava: will be 
attached to evil countries (or places), will indulge in unethical acts, will derive happiness from 
his wicked wife and will incur grief through his sons. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 2"° 
Bhava: will not be of good disposition, will not be virtuous, will be untruthful, will be very 
phlegmatic in temperament and libidinous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 2 Bhava: will 
always be worried, be dirty, will instil fear in others, be ungrateful, be troubled and be not 
famous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will have shaky teeth and long stomach, 
will not be so freely, will speak doubtfully (not confident), be unwise and be not successful in his 
mission. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 2" Bhava: will eat anything available, will be troubled 
due to excess of the three humours, will be very greedy and will befriend very bad elements. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will have diseases related to penis (i.e. urinal 
diseases, venereal diseases, bladder etc.), will be of mean disposition, will have few sons, will 
have daughters and be not virtuous. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will suffer 
headache and from windy and phlegmatic diseases and be not attached to his own people. 
Surya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will not be sharp, will be dejected with people, will be 
troubled, blame -worthy and timid. Sdrya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 2" Bhava: will have plenty of 


hair on the head, will not be dear to the virtuous, elders, Brahmins etc., will grow by eating food 
given by others and will have trouble from kings. Sirya, Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 2" Bhava: will 
be devoid of sons, will grow fat by excess work, will have mean ideals and be bereft of 
pleasures. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 2"° Bhava: will be devoid of good disposition, be 
fierce, be devoid of sons, will be interested in women, will have diseased eyes, be spendthrift 
and have mental worries. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 2" Bhava: will be sinful, be forsaken 
by his virtuous wife, will be devoid of good relatives and be interested in sexual acts. Surya, 
Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 2™ Bhava: will be troubled by wounds, will have fear, be very proud, 
be very sinful and be not well-taught. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will have 
good speech and eyes, will be a tale-bearer, will not show interest in giving donations/gifts, be 
not grateful and will suffer from great blemishes. Sirya, Mafgal, Guru, Sani in the 2"! Bhava: 
will be very famous, will have big bones and long hair, will live in foreign countries, will have 
more enemies, will be friendly, will always be angry, be troubled, wicked, cruel, shameless and 
be forsaken by his wife. Surya, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will have many troubles, be 
not virtuous, be devoid of happiness and knowledge of Sastras and will befriend only sinners. 
Surya, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 2 Bhava: will be sickly be emaciated, be less truthful, be dull- 
witted and interested in bad tales. Surya, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will not have 
wealth, will be greedy, will look ugly and will have diseased eyes, will not have happy relations, 
will be interested in sexual affairs and be sickly disposed. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 2"° 
Bhava: will be dear to sages/good people, be interested in Sastras and Puranas, be devoted to 
Brahmins and will be pleasing to look at. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be 
interested in visiting shrines, religious observations and Sastras, will be worshipped and be 
equal to a king. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will consider money the most 
important, will have agricultural profession, will own a fleet of horses, will acquire gold, will be 
famous, will be a poet, will be interested in giving donations/gifts and will be attractive in 
appearance. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be devoid of learning, will be 
calculative, will be a scholar and dear to Brahmins. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: 
will be successful, will have virtuous children, be affluent, be honoured even by kings, will 
observe religious regulations, will have various kinds of horses, robes and things, be free from 
diseases and be virtuous. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 2" Bhava: will be interested in 
performing sacrifices of religious nature and serving the virtuous, be an able speaker, be very 
wealthy and be interested in Sastras. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will be dear to 
Brahmins, will possess attractive body, will soeak smilingly, be always happy and be dear to the 
king. Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 24 Bhava: will be a chief with the king, will be respected 
even by his enemies, will have much wealth and donate liberally. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 
2™ Bhava: will be chief among many men, be respected by kings, be minister, be always happy 
and be famous. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 2? Bhava: will be favourable to Brahmins, be 
famously valorous, be skilful in achieving royal missions patient and happy in all respects. 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will be related to foreign countries, will have income, 
be attached to the virtuous, will have gardens and wills and will be on king’s mission. Mangal, 
Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will have a modest wife, will have attractive body, be 
attached to the virtuous and will have abundant grains and money. Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in 
the 2" Bhava: will have abundant corns, will acquire knowledge of Sastras, be happy, be chief 
amongst poets and will be principled. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will be skilful in 
all kinds of arts, will destroy enemies, will be famous and be attached to wealth. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 2"° Bhava: will be worried, very greedy, not wise and will have small 
body. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 2" Bhava: will be subjected to troubles due to 
excessive mundane attachment, be not splendourous, be windy in temperament and interested 
in committing sinful acts. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 2" Bhava: will be a night- 
blind, be libidinous, will lose his property, will be inimical to many and be dull-witted. Surya, 
Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr in the 2 Bhava: will be without any assignment, be not rich, be 
without good robes, be troubled by diseases and interested in living in foreign countries. Surya, 
Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will be inimical even to friends, be not helpful to 
others, will be very poor, will have poor (unrewarding) profession and be not valorous. Surya, 
Candr, Mafgal, Sukr, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will be interested in association with wicked people, 
will be troubled by wounds and boils, be very sinful and be much angrily disposed. Surya, 
Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 2 Bhava: will be egoistic, impatient, unkind and unjust. Surya, 
Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will be very greedy, short tempered, devoid of 
desires, be unjust and timid. Sdrya, Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be poor, be 
troubled out of fear, be very sinful, devoid of desires, interested in virtues and will have 


attractive eyes and legs. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 2 Bhava: will be blame- 
worthy, ungrateful, will do others’ jobs, will give high importance to wife and will not be 
masculine in disposition. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 2" Bhava: will face obstacles 
(in his undertakings), will cheat, be ungrateful, will undertake to do inimical acts and will have 
and inimical wife. Sdrya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will not have people of his 
own, who will have their money (i.e. his own people will be devoid of money), will have vices, 
will not be kind at all and will be inimical to Sastras. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 2" 
Bhava: will be interested in getting the jobs of his relatives done, be very wealthy, learned in 
Vedas (Sastras etc.) and be pure. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will have 
good friends, be modest, be disinterested, will not have food to eat and will suffer from lung 
disorders. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be devoted to elders and 
Brahmins, be good looking, be liberal and skilful in divine undertakings, viz. Puja etc. Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2"! Bhava: will be given to anger to a small extent, will be very 
interested in friends and Sastras and be adventurous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr 
in the 2"° Bhava: will be very much worried, be devoid of truth and wealth, wicked and attached 
to bad elements. Sirya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will not attain crops, 
will have no sons, be very wicked, attached to undesirable learning etc. and will befriend bad 
elements. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 2" Bhava: will be given to anger 
chiefly, will prove an evil to friends, be chief among men and be a big cheat. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be proud, will dislike to listen to religious stories, 
will be fickle-minded in speech and will be subjected to much grief. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 2 Bhava: will not attain fame, will not be rich, be blameworthy, be chief and 
be free from expenses. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will not 
successfully perform his own profession, will be foolish, sick and be troubled. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2"! Bhava: The native will have the seas, as boundaries of his 
kingdom, will hold the flag of virtue aloft and be very famous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 2"? Bhava: will be endowed with wealth, horses and elephants galore 
and be highly virtuous. 3 Surya, Candr: will have affectionate wife and affectionate relatives, 
will be attached to others, will observe religious fasting etc., will have knowledge of Sastras, will 
possess sweet voice, will be a poet and will have increasing fame. Surya, Mangal: will be equal 
to a king, will have lands, be interested in possessing conveyances, will have attractive eyes, 
will be courteous to guests and will acquire many sons. Surya, Budh in the 3 Bhava: will have 
many sons and grandsons, will be widely famous, be very valorous, will win his five senses and 
be dear to people. Surya, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be wicked, will have many family members, 
will be firm in nature and will not have growing wisdom. Surya, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will lose 
his good son, be mean minded, will suffer much poverty, be interested in foreign visits and will 
be very proud. Surya, Sani: will have lasting blame, will kill his enemies, will be expert in 
eloquent speech and will be useful to kings. Candr, Mangal: will be an expert agriculturist, be 
unhappy, will have many expenses, be dear to women and be attached to his children. Candr, 
Budh: will by ugly, be interested in gambling, be jealous, wicked, ill-tempered and always fickle- 
minded. Candr, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will have great vices, be subjected to much worries, be 
interested in making enmity and be not bold. Candr, Sukr: will have attractive hands and thighs, 
be dull-witted, will be able to endure worries and will live a life with poverty. Candr, Sani in the 
3 Bhava: will be free from diseases, be devoid of worldly desires, will be attentive, be 
honoured by many virtuous people and be passionate. Mangal, Budh in the 3 Bhava: will be 
helpful to others, will possess a physique with pleasant flavour, will have beautiful hair, be very 
efficacious and be endowed with all riches. Mangal, Guru in the 3 Bhava: be fearless, 
interested in virtues, very pious, splendourous, highly truthful and pure. Mangal, Sukr: will be 
skillful artist, be virtuous, interested in visiting shrines, will possess good qualities and be justly 
disposed. Mangal, Sani: will be so powerful, as a king, be free from all kind of diseases, will 
head even the kings and will attain success over enemies. Budh, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be 
fearful in war, dull-witted, be not virtuous, be devoid of intelligence, will not have good relatives 
and be sickly. Budh, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will possess riches, be afflicted, will be ignorant, or 
illusioned, be highly interested in sexual acts, be troubled by sons and will suffer from secret 
diseases. Budh, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will be close to affluent class, be interested in good 
conduct, will possess attractive limbs, will have bright face and be of good disposition. Guru, 
Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will not be prosperous, be devoid of sons, be defeated, will have 
abundant grief and also abundant happiness, be devoid of shame and be not friendly. Guru, 
Sani in the 3% Bhava: will be firm in disposition, will be self-sufficient in respect of food, drinks 
and robes learned, be chief in his race and rich. Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be endowed 


with riches, will possess a clear disposition, be dear to kings free from diseases and honoured. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal in the 3 Bhava: will have very supreme position, will have conveyances, 
be prosperous, be very rich and will be intelligent. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 3 Bhava: will be 
very fortunate, be interested in Sastras, be inclined to do the jobs of the virtuous, be a great 
person and be devoid of fear. Surya, Candr, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will not be efficacious, will 
have a barren wife, be interested in befriending mean people, be prone to danger and devoid of 
learning. Sdrya, Candr, Sukr in the 3% Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, be ungrateful, be 
deformed and wicked. Sdrya, Candr, Sani in the 3° Bhava: will possess beautiful body, be 
interested in performing Homas, Pooja, donation etc., will have many friends and be shameful. 
Surya, Mangal, Budh in the 3 Bhava: will be chief in a king’s place, be highly truthful, be 
famous, be very beautiful, be very rich, be interested in donating and will have others in his 
company. Surya, Mangal, Guru in the 3° Bhava: will be very valorous, will have control over his 
five senses, be not given to anger, be virtuous and attached to others. Surya, Mangal, Sukr in 
the 3 Bhava: will not be beautiful, be interested in performing virtues acts, will have many 
children and be devoid of sexual feelings. Sdrya, Mangal, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be king of 
kings, will be very rich with elephants and horses, be valorous, be a poet and will instil fear in 
enemies. Surya, Budh, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be a successful army chief, will win over his 
enemies and be endowed with patience. Sirya, Budh, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will be endowed 
with quadrupeds, be dear to virtuous people, be an agriculturist, be very rich and acceptable to 
all. Sdrya, Budh, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will win over enemies, will possess many weapons, be 
expert in fighting a war, be patient and will always have good conduct. Surya, Guru, Sukr in the 
3 Bhava: will be justly disposed, interested in stories and be equal to a king. Surya, Guru, Sani 
in the 3 Bhava: will be famous for performance, will be interested in giving donations, be 
attached to women, be attractive, will-trained and skilful in all arts. Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 
3 Bhava: be learned in Vedas, be an agriculturist, be interested in listening to religious stories, 
will have strong body and be very valorous. Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will perform 
peculiar acts, be interested in learning Sastras, will enjoy various kinds of food and drinks and 
will be principled and opposed to sinful schemes. Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will 
possess a modest wife, will be full of faith, be skilful in soeech, famous and fearless. Candr, 
Mangal, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be helpful to others, famous, very rich, splendourous, modest 
and will be lord of women. Candr, Budh, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will always be poor, will promote 
quarrels, be ill-tempered, interested in committing sinful deeds and will destroy his own 
relatives. Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will be insulted by others, will undertake mean 
professions, be ungrateful, be subjected to much grief and be opposed to good men. Cand, 
Budh, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will grow by eating others’food, destroy enemies, be free from 
sickness and be always happy. Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will be subjected to many 
difficulties, be shameless, unkind and inimical to Sastras, elders and Brahmins. Candr, Guru, 
Sani in the 3 Bhava: will eat any casual food, will be honoured by all, will control his mind, will 
be a lord, be not learned and will destroy his enemies. Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will 
make one learned in Vedas, Agamas etc., a preceptor by king's appointment, will be bestowed 
with great beauty and will be much sought after by one and all. Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 3° 
Bhava: will have strong body, be not proud, will visit shrines, will donate liberally, be very 
valorous and be dear to his own men. Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 3% Bhava: will have all 
happiness and pleasures, be dear to women, be truthful, be great, will perform royal duty and 
be free from greed. Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will be happy and prosperous, be 
endowed with wealth, horses, elephants etc., will be very kind and firmly disposed. Mangal, 
Guru, Sukr in the 3° Bhava: will have chiefly sons, be pure being truthful, be skilful in speech, 
fearless and be liked by many. Mafgal, Guru, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will acquire gold, be 
righteous, be an agriculturist, will acquire quadrupeds, be very attractive and will always speak 
truth. Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 3° Bhava: will be very valorous, be modest, righteous, firm and 
happy with sons. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 3° Bhava: will be timid in nature, be won by enemies, 
ignorant, or illusioned and will suffer from diseases, like itch (and other skin diseases) Budh, 
Guru, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will donate prominently, be free from afflictions, learned in Sastras, 
prosperous, will work with modesty and will be very proud. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 3° Bhava: 
the native will be a liar, wicked and related to other women illegally. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3” 
Bhava: will respect sages, (or wise men) be learned in Vedas etc., interested in singing, be not 
sinful, be interested in women’s wealth, be prosperous, will locate hidden treasures, be dear to 
young women and will be firm in friendship. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 3" Bhava: will 
acquire plenty of riches, be very efficacious, will like those, who have an attractive physique and 
be interested in good deeds and principles. Surya, Candr, Man gal, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will 


be truthful, will win over enemies, will be egoistic and will win many friends out of his eloquence. 
Surya, Candr, Mafgal, Sukr in the 3% Bhava: will be chief among the cousins, will earn a 
number of friends, be dear to virtuous people and will respect his teachers. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be skilful in learning, be the head of a town, will own many 
villages and quadrupeds and be worshipped by the king. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 3° 
Bhava: will be attached to elders, be friendly to virtuous people, will have many assignments 
and will respect Brahmins. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 3° Bhava: will be endowed with 
quadrupeds, robes, food etc., be famous and be happy with sons. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sani in 
the 3 Bhava: will be modest, be interested in gardens wills, trees etc., will continue to have 
acquisition of wealth and be pious. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be a king, 
be splendourous, be very chief among men, will have faith in Sastras and be always kindly 
disposed. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 3% Bhava: will possess superior diamonds, will 
acquire sons and wealth, will be successful and will conquer his enemies. Surya, Mangal, Buch, 
Sani in the 3% Bhava: will be famous, will always wed success, will lend help to animals, be 
beautiful, will conquer his senses and be virtuous. Surya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 3% Bhava: 
will be highly placed among his own men, wealthy, enthusiastic and valorous. Surya, Mangal, 
Guru, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will possess highly good qualities, will be endowed with beauty, 
learning, wealth and justice, be very efficacious and be free from vices. Sirya, Mangal, Sukr, 
Sani in the 3% Bhava: will be intelligent, will possess an auspicious physique, be attached to 
those born in supreme race, will be highly praised and dear to his people. Surya, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr in the 3% Bhava: will worship the Almighty and Brahmins, be not attached to anything, be 
famous for his wisdom and will have good sons. Sirya, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will 
be interested in making friendship with good people, will have knowledge of philosophy and be 
famous for his Sastraic learning. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will have servants, 
be learned in Sastras, be endowed with virtues and justice and will be worshipped by the king. 
Surya, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will have many sons, be famous, very learned, be free 
from afflictions and will own elephants. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be 
wicked, immodest, given to much anger and will be bad in nature. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in 
the 3 Bhava: will not have common sense, will be bereft of sons and relatives, be interested in 
war and will promote quarrels. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be inspired with 
love, be not virtuous, be lazy, unkind and interested in adventures. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr 
in the 3 Bhava: be not splendourous, will not have intelligence and prosperity, will be greedy 
and will always suffer afflictions. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 3° Bhava: will be attached to 
people in the town, will have good behaviour, be highly respected, be interested in eating flesh, 
be truthful and wealthy. Candr, Mafgal, Sukr, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will have bad disposition, 
be fickle minded, will suffer from penury and be interested in living in foreign countries. Candr, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will be worried, will have desires, be not proficient, will have 
a dejected wife and will destroy his place. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be 
deprived of wife and horses (i.e. conveyances), will suffer from excess of wind and phlegm, will 
spend on bad missions and be enthusiastic in committing sinful acts. Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in 
the 3 Bhava: will not have good history, will be devoid of noble aims, be deprived of his own 
men, be not learned and will be friendly. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will hate 
Brahmins, will consume intoxicants, will be very base in disposition and be dirty. Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr in the 3% Bhava: will be happy, will have many sons, be truthful, be very rich, will win 
over his senses and be not virtuous. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will consider 
money supreme, will become virtuous by giving donations, be attached to people and SAastras. 
Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 3° Bhava: will be very truthful, be interested in observing the 
requirements laid down for his own caste, be very famous, be dear to guests and be praised by 
his relatives. Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will possess a beautiful body, be 
wicked, be not sinful and be rich. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be wicked, be 
sinful, ungrateful, not virtuous and be unjust. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 3° 
Bhava: will be very rich, will be bestowed with sons, will be beautiful, dear to this wife and will 
have pleasing appearance. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will be a great 
man, will be very famous in performing yagnas, will hold the flag of virtue alot, will be helpful to 
living beings and will be a chief. Strya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be a 
scholar, be interested in maintaining self respect, will enjoy abundant pleasures, will be virtuous 
and also a singer. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 3° Bhava: will eat crabs, will be very 
wicked, will respect gods and Brahmins and will know his duties. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr, 
Sani in the 3% Bhava: will not perform worships (due, as routine), will control his enemies pride, 
will give importance to friends and will be very shy. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 3” 


Bhava: will be kindly disposed, sill perform such acts, that will bring fame, be grateful, be dear 
to the virtuous and to his own men. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will be 
favourable to guests, will respect God and men and will possess good disposition. Surya, 
Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be successful in undertakings, will consider 
money, as important, will enjoy robes and jewels and be beautiful. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr in the 3% Bhava: will possess scented articles and robes, will have knowledge of Sastras, 
be famous and will be happy with an extremely virtuous wife. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani 
in the 3° Bhava: will be interested in good qualities, be famous, amiable to all, intent on giving 
gifts and will not be attached to anything. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will 
have truth, as the foremost aim, be justly disposed, will donate, be very patient and will be dear 
to Brahmins. Surya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be free from (unnecessary) 
expenses, will have pure mind, be skilful and will not have firm sexual feelings. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 3° Bhava: will be fierce, interested in stories related to sex, be grateful 
and unenthusiastic. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will have wicked 
disposition, will suffer from heavy thirst, will soend a lot and will hate Sastras. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 3° Bhava: will have blemishes, will respect God and Brahmins, be sinful 
and will be troubled by sexual feelings. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will 
not be enthusiastic, be wicked, very cunning and be not splendourous, adverse to sex feelings. 
Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3% Bhava: will be interested in mean people, will be bad in 
disposition and will desire to have his children in big families. Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in 
the 3 Bhava: will have wonderful appearance and jewels, will be beautiful, be interested in 
singing and be virtuous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 3 Bhava: will be expert 
in gandharva vedas, will have an auspicious face, beautiful eyes and pleasing looks 
(appearance). Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will have the 
opportunity to visit shrines and the native will live in forests and hills. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be dear to great people and to virtuous Brahmins. Surya, 
Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be endowed with riches, be skilful in 
justice and will have an attractive face. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: 
will be subject to diseases of head and mind, will live in foreign countries, or deserted places. 
Surya, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: will be wealthy, will conquer five 
senses and be without propitiousness. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 3 Bhava: 
will be successful, skilful, be very propitious, or lucky and famous. 4" Surya, Candr in the 4" 
Bhava: will be bereft of happiness and pleasures, be subject to perils, will be able to guess 
others’ thinking, be not splendourous and not friendly. Surya, Mangal in the 4° Bhava: will suffer 
bloody and windy diseases, be not propitious/lucky, be subjected to troubles and given to 
anger. Surya, Budh in the 4" Bhava: will suffer from windy and phlegmatic diseases, will have 
few sons, be insulted by enemies, attached to wicked people and interested in his own country. 
Surya, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be sinful, be devoid of wealth, be assumed in, or of false 
disposition be highly phlegmatic and be ill-tempered. Sdrya, Sukr in the 4° Bhava: will be very 
much addicted to intoxication, be subjected physical ailments, be cruel and fickle minded. 
Surya, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be troubled by Gods, be very ill-tempered, be interested in 
promoting quarrels, be devoid of shame and be dullwitted. Candr, Mangal in the 4" Bhava: will 
have few sons, be impatient, be interested in others’ wives, dear to people and be forsaking by 
his own children. Candr, Budh: will be very truthful, be clear in speech, be very wise, be dear to 
people and be supreme among the beings. Candr, Guru: will have knowledge of politics, be 
beautiful, very garrulous, dear to king, kind and will respect Gods and preceptors. Candr, Sukr: 
will be a great man, will have large hands, will be very happy by having many a friend and many 
a son, be chief among the men of his race and be ever modest. Candr, Sani in the 4°" Bhava: 
will always be sick, be hard-hearted, be blameworthy, ungrateful and interested in other 
countries. Mangal, Budh in the 4" Bhava: will have wounded physique, will steal women, be a 
drunkard, a gambler and be attached to none. Mangal, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be successful, 
poor, akin to cupid, interested in sins, forsaken by his relatives and will have penchant for arts. 
Mangal, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be subjected to much grief, will expend on bad means, be 
unfriendly, will perform mean acts and will talk unnecessarily. Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will 
be very happy, very kind hearted, will perform such acts, as to bring fame, be patient and 
worshipped by the king. Budh, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will be dear to the king, be equal to the 
king and be a minister, or chief of army. Budh, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be won over by 
enemies, be short of blood, be sick and will suffer from fever. Guru, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will 
have wealth in plenty, will be endowed with gold, pearls and sons, will be faithful to religion and 
interested in shrines etc. Guru, Sani in the 4" Bhava: It produces a cook, or a potter, or an 


artisan. Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will have less happiness, will be devoid of tongue, will have 
dejected friends, be timid and will cheat others. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal in the 4" Bhava: will not 
be able to achieve success in his aim, will have foul smell in mouth, be devoid of intelligence, 
be fierce, be troubled by phlegm and be subjected to miseries. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 4" 
Bhava: will be devoid of good qualities, will have hands devoid of much splendour, will be 
ungreatful and will be happy with the money earned through very hard labour. Surya, Candr, 
Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be interested in indulging in bad acts causing difficulties, be sick, be 
addicted to vices, be subjected to penury and be devoid of wisdom and wealth. Surya, Candr, 
Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will always be attached to his wife, be given to anger, will indulge in mean 
acts, will be insulted by others and be not just. Surya, Candr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be 
highly rheumatic (windy), be fierce, be devoid and respect for Gods and preceptors, will 
befriend many bad elements and be bad in mentally. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh in the 4" Bhava: will 
be fierce in disposition, will be interested in others’ money, will forsake his family, be bad in 
mentality, will wed a barren lady and will hate Sastras. Surya, Mangal, Guru in the 4"° Bhava: 
will be devoid of parents, relatives, character, solendour and sexual feelings, be attached to 
mean people and hard-hearted. Surya, Mangal, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will be primarily happy, 
will have a large army, be interested in Sastras and Puranas, be ill-disposed and be timid. 
Surya, Mangal, Sani in the 4'" Bhava: will be subjected to various worries, be devoid of shame, 
be indolent (be dull-witted, as per Balabhadra), be short-lived and just. Surya, Budh, Guru in the 
4". Bhava: will be honoured, grieved, attached to bad people, be a miser, will be very much 
happy and be troubled by enemies. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr in the 4"° Bhava: will be interested in 
sins, bad in disposition, will be troubled due to excessive phlegm, be shameless, will have bad 
nails and be ungrateful. Strya, Budh, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be devoid of good history, will 
be troubled by friendship with bad elements and be wicked. Surya, Guru, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: 
will be endowed with wife, children and wealth. He will suffer from eye diseases. He will be 
intelligent. Sdrya, Guru, Sani in the 4'" Bhava: will be interested in other’s money, will forsake 
truth, be hard-hearted and will be devoid of wisdom, wealth and justice due to curse. Surya, 
Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be forsaken by friends, will not be good-looking, will be 
endowed with wife, will have excess of deficiency of a limb and be not virtuous. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh in the 4" Bhava: will acquire learning, be virtuous, be very happy, will conquer his senses 
and will be insulted by wicked people. Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will enjoy all kinds 
of happiness, be honoured by kings and own relatives and be endowed with quadrupeds. 
Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will have wicked sons and wandering nature. Candr, 
Mangal, Sani in the 4'" Bhava: will be free from committing sinful acts, be interested in Sastraic 
knowledge, be tactful, be a powerful speaker and will earn much. Candr, Budh, Guru in the 4" 
Bhava: will be a king, will be free from diseases, will have many kinds of horses, be given to 
anger, will be very efficacious and will conquer his enemies. Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 4°° Bhava: 
will be endowed with great lordship, will be famous because of his great wife, be kind and be 
interested in good people. Candr, Budh, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be endowed with great 
lordship, sill be a great personage, be chief in his lineage and will be brought up affectionately 
by his parents. Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 4° Bhava: will have wisdom, learning, skilful sons and 
expertise in arts. Candr, Guru, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be famous, interested in comforts, be 
free from sickness, will have good heart, will have sons, who will be endowed with various 
riches and be a lord. Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 4° Bhava: will be notably courageous, will enjoy 
the company of a good girl among relatives and will earn wonderful things through king’s 
patronage. Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will enjoy happiness through sons, be an 
agriculturist, be endowed with fame, valour etc. and will be attached to his guests and 
Brahmins. Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 4° Bhava: will grow various varieties of crops, will have 
many quadrupeds and will have a number of relatives. Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will 
be very greedy, be bereft of friends, be interested in others’ wives, be hard hearted and be 
always dirty. Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will always have good disposition, will visit 
sacred places, will be endowed with much fame and much valour, be chief among the members 
of his lineage and will have auspicious and fully grown body. Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 4" 
Bhava: will have good qualities, will have less earnings and less happiness, will be a servant 
and a will-wisher of the king. Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be wicked in disposition, 
be against good people, be very ill- tempered and hard-hearted. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 4" 
Bhava: will lord over the earth, be devoid of enemies, will have sons, be virtuous in disposition 
and will have pleasing looks. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be a befitting groom, will 
have knowledge of Mantras and will give liberal gifts to preceptors and relatives. Budh, Sukr, 
Sani in the 4" Bhava: will perform his duties, will be a merchant, be patient, be interested in 


giving donations and be pure. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4° Bhava: will be a repository of fame, will 
have religious initiation, be interested in the duties of the elders, will have an auspicious face 
and be chief among men. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 4" Bhava: will be bereft of 
wisdom, be insulted by others, be forsaken by his own people, be unkind and timid. Surya, 
Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be devoid of good qualities, will give up his children, 
be fearful, will not have good history and be not happy. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 4" 
Bhava: will be devoid of friends, money and beauty, will be conquered by others and will be 
mindless. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be unkind, be a thief, be fierce and 
interested in promoting quarrels. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be very 
inquisitive, be troubled by sexual feelings, will be devoid of good qualities and will be of low 
caste. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 4° Bhava: will look ugly, will not be friendly, will not have 
hair on the limbs (i. e. on chest, arms, Knees etc.) and will always be interested in living in 
foreign countries. Strya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will not have any aims will be a 
thief, will be interested in females belonging to others, will take to very mean professions and 
will be bad disposition. Sirya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 4°" Bhava: will lose his attention, will be 
interested in promoting quarrels, will be harsh in speech, will be ugly in appearance and will 
wear rags. Surya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will live in bad countries, will be cheated 
by women, be interested in prostitutes and be unkind. Sirya, Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 4"° Bhava: 
will be interested in good justice, will like to gamble, will lose wealth, be ugly and connected with 
bad deeds. Surya, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 4° Bhava: will be troubled by hunger, weapons 
and diseases and be excessively windy. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will have 
fierce eyes, will be night blind, be interested in husbandry and be sinful. Surya, Mangal, Guru, 
Sukr in the 4° Bhava: will be of untruthful disposition, will not be patient and be garrulous. 
Surya, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will not have good nature, will wear rags, be not 
friendly, will behave, like a wise man, will have evils. SUrya, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 4"" Bhava: 
will acquire a wife, will be insulted by others, will have a wounded physique, will cause nuisance 
to public and will always have enemies. Surya, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4° Bhava: will always be 
an employer, will be served by many attendants, will do liberal acts and be fearless in 
disposition. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 4" 
Bhava: will be timid in nature, truthful, kind respectful to Brahmins and will like virtues. Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be devoted to others, will have numerous workmen, be 
widely famous, very wealthy and be dear to people. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 4°" Bhava: 
will be very surprisingly bold, will be endowed with wealth of passion and be attached to good 
men. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 4°" Bhava: will be endowed with virtues, will feel happy to 
serve virtuous men, will perform auspicious acts and will have wisdom, as his pride. Candr, 
Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be respectful to Brahmins, be enthusiastic, be 
interested in virtues, be liked by women and will be famous for his efficacy. Candr, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr in the 4° Bhava: will be highly bashful, be interested in his duty, be of truthful disposition 
and will be attached to those, who perform penance. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 4°" Bhava: 
will help Brahmins, will help others, will not be attached to anything, will enjoy good fame and 
will be successful in arguments. Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 4° Bhava: will have many sons, 
will be liked by women, be free from blemish, will be happy with wisdom and wealth and be a 
lord. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be interested in earning money through 
merchandising (i.e. business in general), be famous and be always endowed with mental 
vigour. Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will be endowed with extremely merciful 
tendency, be devoid of sex feelings, will speak clearly (eloquently), will be justly disposed and 
respectful, or honourable. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will have respect for his 
preceptors, will not spend (unnecessarily), will be very wealthy, will be very respectable and be 
a lord. Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be an astrologer, will be very much 
interested in gathering Sastraic knowledge, be very wise and will have plenty of food of his 
liking. Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will have liking to learn about the Supreme 
Spirit, be devoid of sins, will speak truth and will be known in royal circle. Budh, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 4" Bhava: will play musical instruments, will be very kind and will be bold in 
rendering to help others. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be ignoble, be 
troubled by diseases of private parts, be ungrateful, will have prominent belly and be devoid of 
moustache. Sirya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 4°" Bhava: will be devoid of religious 
conduct, be interested in sexual affairs, be very sickly, will not trust others and be fickle-minded. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be highly greedy, will be patriotic, will 
lack courtesy and will always be devoid of wealth. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 4" 
Bhava: will be interested in sword-flight, will reveal pride in face, be shameless and will lack 


masculine vigour. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will have declined wealth 
due to many enemies, will always intend to make enmity and will be unkind. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 4"° Bhava: will be always subjected to troubles, be devoid of virtues, 
will belong to a low caste and will “imprison” others. Strya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 4" 
Bhava: will act slowly after thinking properly, will have more enemies, will have beautiful hair 
and be devoid of efficacy. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will have many 
blemishes, will suffer from tuberculosis, be not splendourous and will lose friends. Surya, 
Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4°" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, will suffer grief on account of 
issue, will be very mean and fickleminded. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: 
will be very sickly will be troubled by kings, will always be subjected to grief and will have vices. 
Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 4° Bhava: will experience much miseries, will have 
unafflicted limbs, will promote quarrels and be firm in blaming. Sdrya, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr, Sani 
in the 4" Bhava: will be discarded by Brahmins, will follow religious observations, will be 
interested in bad acts and will always suffer from penury. Surya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 
4" Bhava: will give up his own religion and follow that of others, will be devoid of good character 
and good disposition. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will be endowed with 
great happiness and great wealth, will talk tactfully, be not learned and will be dear to people. 
Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 4°" Bhava: will be interested in consecration, religious 
observations, bathing etc., will be of superior disposition and be expert in justice. Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will possess high splendour and Sastraic wisdom, 
will be honoured, be patient and will respect Gods and preceptors. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be very kind, be interested in Sastras, be virtuous and wear Lapis 
Lazuli (i.e. cat’s eye) etc. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4° Bhava: will be honoured by 
kings. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be with good men, will be great 
himself, be courageous, be a poet and be amicable to relatives. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr in the 4" Bhava: will wear rags, be devoid of friendship, be very short-tempered, will 
have (more) daughters (than sons) and will always partake in an assembly. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 4'" Bhava: will be very illusioned, will divert his mind to sinful 
acts, be ungrateful, shameless and lazy. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 4" 
Bhava: will like meat, will be interested in bad deeds, be wicked and will not believe in Sastras. 
Surya, Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be happy, untruthful, troubled and 
will suffer miseries on account of his bad deeds. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 
4" Bhava: will not be interested in tales, will be interested in very bad people, will be impatient 
and be adverse to Vedas. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4°" Bhava: will depend 
on many, will be interested in visiting shrines, be industrious will possess good qualities, be 
truthful and kind. Sdrya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 4" Bhava: will be highly 
truthful, will eat quality food, be a king, be jealous and will honour his preceptors. 5" Surya, 
Candr in the 5" Bhava: will not be egoistic, will be hump-backed, be dejected, will have evil 
sons, will always be subjected to much miseries and will be of bad disposition. Surya, Mangal in 
the 5" Bhava: will have many sons and plurality of wives, will be accessible to enemies, be 
cruel, fearful and will always be interested in sins. Surya, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will be 
interested in committing much sinful acts, will have all kinds of afflictions, be cruel, be forsaken 
by his wife and will be prone to evils. Sdrya, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of knowledge 
of Vedas, will eat others’ food, be attached to others’ wives, be very hard in disposition and be 
devoid of good qualities. Sdrya, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be bereft of good qualities and vigour, 
will be miserable, conquered by enemies, will be troubled by weakness, be disinterested in 
SAastras and will be of bad mentality. Sdrya, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will sell articles, be grateful, 
interested in being virtuous, will be happy with wife and sons and will be ever plentiful. Candr, 
Mangal in the 5" Bhava: will be very happy, be learned and will believe in God and confide in 
preceptors. Candr, Budh: will be honoured, be youthful in appearance, will beget many sons 
and will respect Gods and preceptors. Candr, Guru: will be wounded, be favourable to Sastras, 
be happy by nature, be a Lord and will utter prayers in an undertone. Candr, Sukr: will be 
endowed with treasures and wisdom, will always be happy, will have more daughters and be 
dear to his wife. Candr, Sani: will be devoid of issue and happiness, be of worldly disposition, 
be of bad mind and will be rejected, as per Sastraic terms. Mafgal, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will 
be modest, will incur losses due to illusion regarding agricultural, be cruel, be interested in living 
in foreign countries and will adopt relatives and sons. Mangal, Sukr: will earn more enemies, be 
always insulted by mean people, be illusioned and will disrespect Brahmins. Mangal, Sani in the 
5" Bhava: will have wounded limbs, be won over by ladies, be wicked, ungrateful, impatient and 
be not wealthy. Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will have many sons, be desirous, of success, be 


dear to women (or wife), be pleasing in appearance, be dutiful and be not greedy. Budh, Sukr in 
the 5" Bhava: will have auspicious speech, be interested in surprising acts, be respectful to 
Brahmins, be skilful and be resolute. Budh, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will have a defective limb, be 
not happy, be cruel and will be naturally inauspicious. Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be very 
fortunate, be chief among his men, will have many sons, be wealthy and happy. Guru, Sani in 
the 5" Bhava: will be very fortunate, be not good, be friendly to bad people, be interested in 
intoxicant drinks, will wear rags, be not praiseworthy and will indulge in unholy acts. Sukr, Sani 
in the 5" Bhava: will have daughters, will be addicted to females, will be interested in sinful 
tales, be ungrateful, be ugly and be not praiseworthy. Surya, Candr, Mangal in the 5" Bhava: 
will be endowed with fame, be devoid of good deeds, will be of loathsome disposition and will 
acquire physical deformity due to self-made activities. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will 
be very sinful, be deprived of his property, be relieved of his sons, be devoid of happiness, be 
won over by his wife and be fickle-minded. Surya, Candr, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid 
of sons, be very valorous, be learned, will perform good deeds, be very kind and will not be 
friendly. Strya, Candr, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will not have good qualities, will be interested in 
others’ money, will have more enemies and be without kindness and patience. Surya, Candr, 
Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, mental worries and fear, will create nuisance to 
the people in the world, will be addicted to vices, will be endowed with sons and be not 
favourable to relatives. SUrya, Mangal, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will be troubled by severe 
wounds, be devoid of friendship, will be kind, poor, will be bereft of freedom and can guess 
others’ matters. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will accompany base people, be very 
sinful, be disabled, dejected, unable to donate, will hate his wife and be devoid of manliness. 
Surya, Mangal, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of ornaments, will eat much, will hate 
people and will be refused by them and will be hard-hearted. Sdrya, Mangal, Sani in the 5" 
Bhava: will have sinful sons and daughters, will not be materialistic, will have sons bereft of 
education and will hate good people. Sdrya, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will have sinful sons, 
will be given to anger, be impotent, be very sinful, will respect Brahmins, be miserable and will 
have miserable friends. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr: will have barren daughter, be ungrateful, will have 
many wives, be subjected to grief, be sinful and be bereft of happiness, money and food. Surya, 
Budh, Sani: will not have children and money, will have prominent belly, prominent buttocks, 
long knees and small feet. Sdrya, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be uncharitably disposed, will 
cheat others, be cunning, will indulge in jugglery and will be prone to hurt by arrows. Surya, 
Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be forsaken by his relatives, be troubled by poverty, be 
interested in quarrels and be fearless. Sdrya, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will not be 
courageous, will be wicked, be a dunce and be interested in foreign countries. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh in the 5" Bhava: will not be bold, be not masculine, will not have charitable mind, be 
interested in gambling and sexual pleasures. Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will be 
timid, be wealthy, be short-tempered, will spend in bad ways, be attached to his relatives, be 
not wise and be very proud. Candr, Mafgal, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be in the company of 
base people, be not beautiful, will suffer from rheumatic pains, be not famous and will be 
rejected by people. Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be untruthful, be not wealthy, be 
not happy, will sleep much, will have ugly friends, be wicked and fearless. Candr, Budh, Guru in 
the 5" Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, will have good qualities, be virtuous and will 
respect his parents. Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will have stout limbs, will not be freedy, 
will be attached to others, will be relieved of sins by visiting shrines and will be worthy. Candr, 
Budh, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be meritorious, famous, firm and charitable, will have 
knowledge, or arts and be devoid of desires. Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will have 
pleasing voice, will have hair touching the foreface, be charitable, be devoid of enemies and will 
have pleasing looks. Candr, Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be wise and famous, will be an 
expert poet, be devoid of enemies, be very happy, be of good disposition and will have beautiful 
face. Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 5 Bhava: will have good qualities and good nature, will be an 
astrologer, will maintain his physique beautifully, will be lustful and interested in listening to 
religious accounts. Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will hold the “flag of charity” aloft (i.e. 
will be highly charitable and will say “no” to none, as karna, or Maha Bharata). will be truthful 
and will maintain only truth, will be very intelligent, be bashful, enthusiastic and courageous. 
Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be bestowed with luck, will be devoid of mental peace, 
be charitable, be favourable to good people and endowed with gold, robes and ornaments. 
Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will not have wife, be unkind, will not possess good 
qualities and will be with relatives. Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will have good 
disposition, will be endowed with thin clothes and ornaments, will be an acknowledged person 


and will conquer enemies. Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be kind, will know business 
tactics, will have knowledge of Vedas, will be friendly to good people, be patient and will respect 
God and teachers. Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be wicked, be shameless, be unjust, 
will forsake his wife and will be very proud. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be endowed 
with precious stones, will respect Brahmins, will have knowledge of many Sastras and will make 
his own place, as heavens. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will respect teachers, will learn 
great things, will be chief in his lineage and will attain good friends. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 5" 
Bhava: will be bereft of children, will have fat body, fat neck, fat shoulders and thin ears, will 
gamble and cheat others. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will possess highly good qualities, 
will be endowed with corns, will live in others’ houses and be interested in learning Sastras. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will blame the dearest, will be against his elders, 
will be unprincipled, be shameless and be of bad disposition. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 
5" Bhava: will be bereft of sons, be immodest, indigent and be devoid of kindness and virtues. 
Surya, Candr, Mafgal, Sukr in the 5"" Bhava: will have long penes, itchy thighs, be poor and 
interested in others’ wives. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be ungrateful, be 
happy, will enjoy authority, will have mean profession and be devoid relatives. Surya, Candr, 
Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will be very happy, will be subjected to sexual pressure and 
belongs to noble lineage, but will be unjust. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be a 
tale-bearer, will give up his religion and will hate the virtuous. SUrya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 
5" Bhava: will be unkind, unintelligible, be not proud, will possess ornaments and be in the 
company of sinners. Sdrya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be interested in chariots (i.e. 
conveyances), be immodest and will like bathing with application of scents etc. (i.e. the native 
will enjoy rich bathing conveniences, like modern appliances, costly soaps, oils, cream etc.) 
Surya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be happy, will make futile efforts, be devoid of 
friends and sons, be dear and will perform wicked acts. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 5" 
Bhava: will not be splendourous, will perform condemnable acts, will have vary many profession 
and be highly ill-tempered. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will give up his duties, 
be unjust, dull, indolent and will like ugly people. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 5" Bhava: 
will be bereft of strength, be a thief, be interested in sexual stories, will serve others and be 
devoid of courage. Surya, Mafigal, Guru, Sukr in the 5"" Bhava: will be miserable on account of 
wounds, be not virtuous and will always perform against Sastras. Strya, Mangal, Guru, Sani in 
the 5" Bhava: will have revolutionary thinking, will be troubled by serious diseases, will not have 
intelligence, be not virtuous and be without ears. Sdrya, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will 
have defective arm., will not be interested in materials donated for performance of shati etc. and 
be subjected to vices. Sirya, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be infamous, be not 
efficacious, be in the company of sinners and be hasty. Sdrya, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 5" 
Bhava: will perform blame worthy acts, will be interested in bad females and in serving bad 
people, be not famous, be unkind and will hate Brahmins. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 5" 
Bhava: will be insulted by others, will wear rags, will be impure, will have untimely food and will 
be troubled by poverty at all times. Sirya, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of 
interest in meritorious acts, will not be intelligent, be interested in studying unworthy books and 
be impartial. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will be wise, learned, interested in 
Vedas etc., will conquer his enemies and will be of friendly disposition. Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be fortunate, learned, modest and will be skilful. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be immodest, will be interested in his own religion, will be 
courageous, charitable and highly respectable. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will 
have wounds (itches etc.), will protect Brahmins, be of good qualities and be famous for self 
respect. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will like cold things, will know the meaning 
of various Sastras, will be proud, be a poet and be liked by people. Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani 
in the 5" Bhava: will help people, will befriend many, will have various ornaments, be patient 
and will be connected with religious activities. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be 
endowed with sons and wealth, will be rich with application of sandal, saffron etc. and robes 
and ornaments, will have abundant riches and will enjoy happiness through children. Candr, 
Budh, Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will uphold truth, be modest, will be very charitable and be 
honoured by the learned. Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be broad minded, will 
conquer his five senses, will like cleanliness, be good-looking, be endowed with fortune and 
courage and be not greedy. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be worshipped by 
kings, will be interested in Sastras and religion and be endowed with sons and wealth. Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will have knowledge of the Supreme Spirit, will have satisfied 
mind and be dear to king. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will have beautiful body, 


be free from desires, will have principles, be chief in his lineage, be intelligent and pure. 
Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be broad minded, will observe virtues, be expert 
in father’s assignments, be patient and will like all people. Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" 
Bhava: will be good in arts, will know the meanings of Vedas, will have quadrupeds, be very 
pure and famous. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will have abundant wealth, learning 
and virtues. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will have ugly and dirty 
physique, will be endowed with children and suffer from many blemishes. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be sexually passionate, will have knowledge of 
mathematics and will be troubled by serious diseases. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 
5" Bhava: will be eunuch, will have no knowledge of letters (i.e. illiterate), be devoid of vedic 
and Sastraic learning, be hard-hearted and be not virtuous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr 
in the 5" Bhava: be devoid of Lakshmi, be very short tempered, will wander in vain and will 
possess relatives. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be interested in 
befriending bad people, will have external show, or courtesy, will not have good history and be 
bereft of truth and honour. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of 
relatives, sons, wealth and happiness, be interested in gambling and be inimical. Surya, Candr, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will have a wife bereft of good character, will be forsaken by 
his relatives, will be perished by Gods and Brahmins and be impatient. Surya, Candr, Budh, 
Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be of bad disposition, be forsaken by his relatives and will be 
inimically disposed to good people. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will spend 
on bad deeds, will have self-made evils, will be troubled by expenses, be unkind and be 
interested in sinful acts. Surya, Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of 
wealth, sons, honour and splendour and be subjected to misery. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will suffer from marital blemish, be sick and timid will make futile efforts. 
Surya, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 5° Bhava: will be a dunce, be forsaken by his wife, will 
be of pleased disposition and will fear war, or quarrels. Surya, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 
5" Bhava: will be shameless, will win over good people, will lose his father, be a drunkard and 
be ungrateful. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will suffer from diseases of 
head, will have wounds on the body and be devoid of wealth and honour. Surya, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will suffer from diseases of eye, be given to severe anger, be ugly 
and will always wear rags. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will not be 
enthusiastic, be very wicked and will face evils by unnecessary talks. Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be very valorous, be free from vices, be a lord, be respectable, 
will be endowed with sons and wealth, will conquer his five senses and be famous. Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be wicked, be beyond assessment, will have 
abundant wealth and be affectionate to his children. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" 
Bhava: will be an expert in minerals, mercury and water equipment and will become famous in 
such dealings. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be widely famous, be chief 
among his relatives and race-men, be modest will be endowed with ornaments and will control 
his mind greatly. Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be and eloquent speaker, 
be modest and be endowed with mercy, charitability and truth. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr in the 5" Bhava: will be subjected to penury and grief, be mean minded, be of 
thieving disposition and be rash in speech. Surya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 5" 
Bhava: will be chief in his race, be inimically disposed to the public, will possess much 
distressed a body and be forsaken by his relatives. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in 
the 5" Bhava: will honour guests, will have broad and beautiful eyes, will practice penance and 
be justly disposed. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of 
kindness, will live in foreign places and will be able to guess others’ mind. Surya, Candr, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be cruel, wicked, be devoid of wicked people’s company 
and be attached to sons, friends and meritorious acts. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in 
the 5" Bhava: will not be efficacious, will hate women, will lose wealth and will be honoured by 
enemies (i.e. will not be troubled by them). Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" 
Bhava: will be highly interested in the Supreme Spirit, be chief, wealthy and amiable to 
relatives. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 5" Bhava: will be interested in 
the knowledge of the Supreme Spirit, be dear to his relatives, be happy, skilful in all arts and be 
a heard. 6" Surya, Candr: will have ugly face, be poor, short-lived, will suffer from diseases, will 
always have desires and will be free from enemies. Surya, Mangal in the 6" Bhava: will be 
highly intelligent, will destroy enemies, will attain success in war and will enjoy wide fame. 
Surya, Budh in the 6" Bhava: will be endowed with great riches, be famous for his abundant 
wealth, be fearless and dear to king. Surya, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be sickly disposed, short- 


lived, will have more enemies and be devoid of friends. Sdrya, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be 
troubled by serious diseases, be shameless, be devoid of wealth, be ugly, subjected to utter 
misery and will be worried. Surya, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be free from sickness and sin, will 
be very wise, be endowed with weapon and wealth, will have servants and will be of good 
nature. Candr, Mangal in the 6" Bhava: will be troubled by diseases, will lose his intellect, be 
splendouruos, be unfortunate and will face killing (be killed) and be imprisoned. Candr, Budh in 
the 6" Bhava: will be forsake by the people of his race and by his relatives, will not be very rich, 
will have a bad wife, be timid and cuing. Candr, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of 
intelligence and long life, will develop defects in limbs due to sickness and be devoid of desires 
and good qualities. Candr, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will have a accomplished physique, will be 
defeated by enemies, be interested in sinful acts, will have balanced expenditure and will have 
bad character. Candr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will have bad mentality, be timid, unintelligent, will 
have a distressed body, be ugly and be devoid of sexual desires. Mangal, Budh in the 6" 
Bhava: will have bad mentality, be timid, unintelligent, will have a distressed body, be ugly and 
be devoid of sexual desires. Mangal, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will have few sons, be of wicked 
disposition, be insulted by others, will not observe any religious conduct, be uncharitable and 
intent upon promoting quarrels. Mangal, Sukr: will be interested in women, be conquered by 
women, be interested in sinful acts, be intelligent, wicked and will not possess SAastraic learning. 
Mangal, Sani: will have firm mental disposition, will have hard (strong) limbs, will conquer his 
enemies, be an expert in moral merits. Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be lazy, devoid of 
intelligence, troubled by kings, wealthy and interested in sexual acts. Budh, Sukr: will have 
many conveyances, be happy, very valorous, dear to people, liked by women and be highly 
skillful. Budh, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will have many enemies, be sickly disposed, be devoid of 
strength and will like others, but not his own men. Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be interested 
in sexual acts, be fickle-minded about ladies, be addicted to liquor, be ungrateful, sinful and will 
cheat. Guru, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be forsaken by wife, be sick, be devoid of truth and 
wealth, be interested in unethical deeds and be always miserable. Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: 
will be very valorous, will be endowed with wealth, fortune and happiness, will have strength 
(perfection) of all limbs and will destroy enemies. Strya, Candr, Mangal in the 6" Bhava: will be 
of mean disposition, will have ugly mentality, be troubled by diseases, will cheat others, be 
unkind and will be in the company of bad people. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 6" Bhava: will be 
sinful, given to anger, will have disloyal servants, be devoid of wealth and grains, will fear and 
be ruthless. Sdrya, Candr, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will experience various miseries, will be 
forsaken by children, wife and servants, will have mean profession and no wealth. Surya, 
Candr, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be mean, strong, egoistic, of ugly mentality, devoid of 
affection. Sdrya, Candr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be sinful, be not attached to people, will have 
hard legs, be fearful and hasty. Surya, Mangal, Budh in the 6" Bhava: be sinful, not attached to 
people, will have various kids of wealth, will conquer his enemies, will have many friends and be 
devoid of war (quarrel) etc. Surya, Mangal, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be brave, be interested in 
SAstras, will conquer his five senses. Surya, Mangal, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will have various 
kids of happiness, be dear to women, be expert in always enjoying sexual pleasures, be very 
rich and just. Sdrya, Mafgal, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will enjoy laded property, will have pure 
body (in.e. defectless body), will possess horses, elephants and wealth, be very skillful and will 
do meritorious acts. Surya, Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be sensuous, be interested in acts 
of blemish, will not have religious faith, be bereft of good nature and mercy and will cheat. 
Surya, Budh, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will experience various kids of blemishes, be very hard- 
hearted and be devoid of truth, mercy, shame and intelligence. Surya, Budh, Sani in the 6" 
Bhava: will be bereft of beauty (good appearance), sons and wife, will always perform evil acts, 
be fearful in appearance, be exceedingly in temperament and be a skillful soeaker. Surya, 
Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be exceedingly greedy, will possess gold, robe and ornaments, 
be ugly in appearance and will be devoid of intelligence. Sdrya, Guru, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will 
be clever in performance, will be interested in singing, will have several enjoyments and be 
interested in digging tasks and wells. Sdrya, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be dear to good 
people, will be a eloquent speaker, be interested in Sastras, be skillful, be highly learned and 
will have knowledge of Sastras. Candr, Mafgal, Budh in the 6" Bhava: will experience various 
measures of miseries, be untruthful, be intelligent, will eat other's food and be able to guess 
about others’ mid. Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of truth and wealth, will 
be very much wounded because of empty, will lose courage and will be devoid of lordship. 
Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be poor, be bereft of relatives, will have the nature to 
remain pleased, be dear to his workmen and be troubled by the three temperaments, in.e. wind, 


phlegm and bile. Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 6"" Bhava: will experience of loss of children, will go 
for empty, will have injured body, will have desires, be defeated and listless towards Sastras. 
Candr, Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be short-lived, distressed, devoid of Sastraic learning, 
interested in blaming others and be a atheist. Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be 
subjected to various diseases, be little efficacious, be bereft ow wife and be always troubled by 
poverty. Candr, Budh, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be troubled by miseries, will possess sexual 
desires, be not interested in helping others, be not virtuous and be poor. Candr, Guru, Sukr in 
the 6" Bhava: will be naturally a sinner, will lose money on account of religious observances, 
will become infamous, be very mean and be blamed by relatives. Candr, Guru, Sani in the 6" 
Bhava: will be bereft of intelligence, be very miserable, cruel, cuing and devoid of self-respect. 
Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be very miserable, be devoid of wisdom, learning and 
modesty and be troubled. Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be courageous, will conquer 
his enemies, will not be mean minded, ie broad minded, will hold the flag of virtue aloft and be 
sinless. Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will speak truth, will be of good disposition, will 
possess gold, precious stones, lad and Sastraic wisdom. Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 6" Bhava: 
will have various kids of enjoyments, will control his five senses, be wealthy, very beautiful, 
attached to his wife and will blame others. Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will have good 
conduct, be dear to people will possess high degree of knowledge of Sastras, be justly 
disposed and will be liked by many. Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 6"" Bhava: will be sick, be bereft 
of parents (in.e. will lose them early), be fiercely disposed, be interested in sinful acts and be 
subjected to blemishes. Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 6"" Bhava: will be kindly disposed, be dear to 
women, be interested in others’ jobs, will follow good people and be virtuous. Budh, Guru, Sukr 
in the 6" Bhava: will make one conquer enemies, famous, valorous and influencial in general. 
Budh, Guru, Sani in the 6"" Bhava: will have on sons, will be fettered, will be black 
complexioned, will wear rags, will be devoid of good history and will be against justice. Budh, 
Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be very poor, be not valorous and will hate Sastras, preceptors 
and Brahmis. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will have a emaciated body, be unkind, unjust, 
poor and over-anxious and will dislike the virtuous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 6" 
Bhava: will always have distressed mid, will make futile efforts, will experience sickness and 
fear, will have ugly eyes and wicked mid. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will have 
big teeth, big eyes and big one, be shameless and will always be filled with fear. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will have a clean physique, be devoid of vedic learning, be 
fettered, over-anxious and harsh in speech. Sidrya, Candr, Mafgal, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will 
have injured limbs, be troubled, be not splendouruos, will cheat others, be restless and will be 
won over by the fair sex. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be a eunuch, dunce, 
simpleton, be very timid and be insulted by one and all. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 6" 
Bhava: will suffer contortion on account of various diseases, be interested in others’ food and 
will have little friendship. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be interested in bad 
deeds and untruth, will invite risks and be a simpleton. Sdrya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 6" 
Bhava: will not be famous, be interested in others’ wives, will be very unkind and will cheat 
others. Surya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will have a emaciated body, will join foolish 
persons, will be fettered, or killed, will have mean profession and will be of very bad disposition. 
Surya, Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will indulge in bad acts, be devoid of honour of Gods, 
preceptors and Brahmins, be insulted by others and be hard-hearted. Surya, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru in the 6" Bhava: will destroy his enemies, be courageous, skillful in soeech, worshiped by 
the king, interested in good qualities and will be endowed with intelligence. Surya, Mangal, 
Budh, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be very kid, will have a equally grow up physique, be a 
eloquent speaker, be courageous and dear to Brahmis. Surya, Mafgal, Budh, Sani in the 6" 
Bhava: will be dear to virtuous, courageous, conceit-manifested, fierce in appearance, happily 
disposed and dear to all. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will have agriculture, as 
chief profession, be principled, will be a good consultant on Mantras and be dear to king. Surya, 
Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be of wicked disposition, be dear to his me and will be 
endowed with splendour and fame. Surya, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be skillful, 
will join and assembly of skillful me, be famous, amicable to elders and will always be interested 
in meritorious acts. SUrya, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be principal among intelligent 
people, will conquer his enemies, will possess a beautiful body and will be sweetly disposed. 
Surya, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will have noble notions, be not intelligent, will have 
Sastraic knowledge, fame and conveyances. Sirya, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will visit 
shrines, will vary anxious, be dear to good people and interested in learning. Sirya, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will be capable of bestowing (or giving away 


freely anything asked for, like the Divine Kapla Tree), be skillful, very efficacious and be well 
placed. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be highly learned, be interested in 
women, will possess wealth and be justly disposed. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 6" 
Bhava: will be devoid of wealth be defective limbed and attached to people. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, be interested in living in foreign 
countries, will have wicked disposition, be sexually troubled and will have a emaciated body. 
Candr, Mafigal, Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, be of hard disposition 
and be averse to Sastras. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 6'" Bhava: will be subjected to 
penury, be devoid of pleasures, will always have enemies, be bad and fickle minded. Candr, 
Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be untruthful, be excessively windy in temperament, will 
be in the company of bad people, be unkind and hard-hearted. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 
6" Bhava: will be short-lived, will be physically troubled, be shameless and be intent on 
commiting sinful acts. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be of bad nature, be 
interested in religious principles, be of cuing disposition and will hate his teacher. Candr, Budh, 
Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will depend on others, be wickedly disposed, forsake by his wife, 
hard hearted and commit sin. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will deserve hatred be, 
cruel, devoid of so and wife, will follow his promised and will be troubled by sexual feelings. 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be sportive in spirit, pleasing to eyes, dear to 
king and proudly disposed. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be broad minded, be 
pleasing to eyes, dear to king, proud, unkind and virtuous. Mafigal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 6" 
Bhava: will worship Fire God, will be interested in sacrifices, observances and worships. and 
will ear merits by visiting shrines. Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be courageous, 
be a skillful astrologer and will be famous in performing religious sacrifices. Budh, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be charitable, dirty in disposition and will be conquered by females. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be ugly, immodest, will be troubled by 
others and will cheat others. Sdrya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be highly 
short-tempered, be a top-class tale-bearer and a thief, be ungrateful, be interested in making 
enemies and be miserable. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will suffer from 
venereal diseases, will steal and be averse to good people. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr 
in the 6" Bhava: will be interested in bad deeds, will lose wealth will have knowledge of Tantras 
and will suffer from diseases of mouth, or face. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 6" 
Bhava: have diseases of head, will suffer from fever, be not wise and be very ugly. Surya, 
Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of courage, be a dunce and be bereft 
of wisdom and learning. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of 
splendour, be not out-spoke, be devoid of wealth and be interested in meritorious acts. Surya, 
Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will wear rags, will suffer from metal distress, will be 
wounded, be not truthful, be disabled and indigent. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 6" 
Bhava: will be hard-hearted, sinful, cruel, will violate people and will not be successful in his 
undertakings. Surya, Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, sons 
and principles and will be conquered by base persons. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 
6" Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, will have prodigal sons, be distressed and subjected to 
diseases. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 6"" Bhava: will be shameless, unkind, will join 
base me and will acquire diseases. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be 
troubled by wounds, be devoid of truth and purity, be not of good nature and be diseased. 
Surya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6"" Bhava: will be hated by people, be devoid of self- 
respect, be a simpleton, be interested in bad acts and devoid of conduct. Surya, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of sons, be interested in others’ women, be very poor 
and cruel. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 6" Bhava: will be free from diseases, be of 
dirty disposition, be libidinous and be not virtuous. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 6" 
Bhava: will suffer from stragary (painful discharge of urine), be bereft of wife, be dirty and lazy. 
Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be mentally distressed right from birth, 
will have surprising windy diseases (in.e. difficult to be cured), be ungrateful and unprincipled. 
Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6"" Bhava: will be forsake by people, be interested in 
others’ wives, be sinful and intent upon living in others countries. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani 
in the 6" Bhava: will have more enemies, be devoid of so and wife, be interested in money and 
be lazy. Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be bereft of Sastraic learning, 
sons and wealth and be forsake by all. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 6" 
Bhava: will have trembling hands and legs, will do base deeds, be fearful and conquered by 
enemies. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 6"" Bhava: will be very miserable, be a 
drukardd, be devoid of shoulders (in.e. drooped etc.) and will not have robes and ornaments. 


Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will not be splendouruos, be ill- 
natured and be unprincipled. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will not 
be patient, will cheat, be sick and be conquered by wicked people. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be of crooked disposition, be unkind, be very poor, be devoid of 
wife and relatives and will destroy the king (i.e. will prove ominous to the king). Surya, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be of wandering disposition and be highly 
intelligent. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be of wicked disposition, 
be immodest, will wader unfruitfully and be bereft of self-respect. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 6" Bhava: will be truthful, just, virtuous, skillful, wealthy and famous. 7" 
Surya, Candr: will be distressed, be hasty, not virtuous and highly cunning. Surya, Mangal in 
the 7" Bhava: will be interested in others’ wives, be not charitable, be troubled by huger, 
attached to preceptors and Brahmins and be cruel. Surya, Budh: will have a insincere wife, will 
be a eunuch, be devoid of sexual happiness, be unfruitful (not result manifesting) and be 
endowed with relatives. Surya, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will have little happiness, be harsh in 
speech, will depend on others for food and grow and be miserable. Surya, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: 
will eat others’ food, be interested in serving others, be devoid of relatives, be distressed and 
indigent. Surya, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of conjugal pleasures, will have a wicked 
wife, will ear more enemies, be troubled by diseases and be wrought by fear. Candr, Mangal in 
the 7" Bhava: will suffer from stomachial disorders, be devoid of learning, be fierce and will 
acquire fear due to his aims and illicit intercourse. Candr, Budh: will have numerous sons and 
wife, be fickle-minded, be devoid of truth and mercy and be dear to relatives. Candr, Guru in the 
7" Bhava: will learn many Sastras, will have many friends, be beautiful and be worshiped by the 
king. Candr, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will acquire a auspicious wife, will enjoy various kids of 
wealth and pleasures, be very happy and intelligent. Candr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be sickly 
disposed, be very timid, be interested in carnal pleasures, be cruel, will have servants and be 
interested in others’ wives. Mangal, Budh in the 7" Bhava: will be of crooked disposition, will 
cheat, be not splendourous and be defective limbed. Mangal, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be 
interested in joining base people, will wader fruitlessly, will have injured, or afflicted body on 
account of sin. Mangal, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be rejected by people, will be troubled by 
blood-oozig body, be insulted by others and be unjustly disposed. Mangal, Sani in the 7" 
Bhava: will suffer from various diseases, will have a emaciated body will promote quarrels, will 
do wicked acts and will be highly beautiful. Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will have high metal 
latitude, be proud, fickle-minded, distressed, be a sped-thrift and be troubled by sexual feelings. 
Budh, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will acquire a virtuous wife, will have physical comforts and 
happiness, be unkind and be ungrateful to wife. Budh, Sani in the 7 Bhava: will have a wicked 
wife, be physically troubled on account of sex, will have vices, be insulted by others and be not 
virtuous. Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will house various diseases, will have strange voice and 
auspicious body, be cruel, praiseworthy, famous and pious of God and Brahmins. Guru, Sani in 
the 7" Bhava: will be conquered by women will misappropriate women’s wealth, be devoid of 
truth and wealth, be a liar and sier. Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will have many enemies, will eat 
unedibles, will violate others’ beds, be shameless and will nourish others. Surya, Candr, Mangal 
in the 7" Bhava: will have physical troubles out of sickness, be fickle-minded, will suffer from 
sexual distress, be not virtuous and will be won over by women. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 7™ 
Bhava: will be devoid of sos, will join base women, will be hard in disposition, be troubled and 
be sensuous. Surya, Candr, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will incur diseases, will not be firm in regard 
to females, be cruel and sinfully disposed. Sirya, Candr, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be deprived 
of wife, will have hatred, anger and enmity, will live in foreign countries and be inimical to 
preceptors. Sirya, Candr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be wicked, interested in the next world, 
frank and will have knowledge of Justice. Surya, Mangal, Budh in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid 
of efficacy and pleasure, be interested in eating others’ food, will depend on others and be 
sinful. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be insulted by others, will join base me, be 
interested in bad deeds and will not adopt religious observances. Surya, Mangal, Sukr in the 7" 
Bhava: will be bereft of distinction, be not kind., be sinfully inclined, be full of diseases, be not 
learned and be unwise. Surya, Mangal, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will possess and ugly physique, 
will have a wife devoid of character, will be of bad mentality, be ungrateful, fear-filled, emaciated 
due to libidinous nature and cruel in disposition. Sdrya, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be of 
bad nature, be fear stricken, be forsake by elders, be not kind, be unwealthy and will wear rags. 
Surya, Budh, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be inclined to join base me, be merciless, be interested 
in stealing, will have a mean wife, will not have profane knowledge derived from worldly 
experience, but be intelligent. Sdrya, Budh, Sani in the 7° Bhava: will have ugly body, over 


anxious, interested in his mean wife, fear-stricke, will watch for weak points and be wicked. 
Surya, Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be unkind, will incur disease after disease, be forsake by 
his wife, will join base me and will not trust in SAastras. Surya, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will 
have a dejected wife, will not be attached to people, be poor in mentality and will tremble with 
fear. Surya, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be libidinous, be very happy, be skillful in having 
sexual enjoyments, will conquer senses and will join charitable people. Candr, Mangal, Budh in 
the 7" Bhava: will be ugly, be scholarly, poor, cruel, will lose his wife and knowledge. Candr, 
Mangal, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be helpful, truthful, will have a skillful wife, be interested in 
war and will always be inclined towards sexual enjoyment. Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 7" 
Bhava: will wear rags, be fierce, be not attached to the virtuous, be hard-hearted and will do 
blame-worthy acts. Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be interested in good company, 
be out-spoke, interested in Vedas and be favorable to preceptors and Gods. Candr, Budh, Guru 
in the 7" Bhava: will enjoy abundant pleasures, will soeak eloquently, be interested in women 
and in Sastras and be a expert warrior. Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will perform 
meritorious acts, be honorable, good-natured and modest. Candr, Budh, Sani in the 7" Bhava: 
will be rich, will be endowed with food, grains and belief and will have many sos. Candr, Guru, 
Sukr in the 7 Bhava: will perform meritorious acts, will be dear to women, be fearless, virtuous 
and famous. Candr, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be worshiped eve by Indra (in.e. will be so 
superior and divine a personage), will have knowledge of Mantras, will possess elephants and 
horses, will conquer his senses and will visit shrines. Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be 
skillful in achieving carnal pleasures, will be great in Sastraic knowledge, will acquire wealth, will 
make distinct progress, be virtuous and will use money for good deeds. Mangal, Budh, Guru in 
the 7" Bhava: will be great, be meritorious in acts, be worshiped by enemies, be jealous and 
dear to good people. Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be subjected to troubles, will lose 
his wealth, be interested in eating meat, be very bad in disposition, will kill (in.e. be a butcher, 
murderer etc.) and be famous. Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 7" Bhava: not give in the text. Mangal, 
Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will have broad eyes, be bashful will be endowed with fame and 
happiness, adbe amiable to Brahmins. Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be very short- 
tempered, be highly inimical, be devoid of luck, be troubled by diseases and will join bad 
people. Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be auspicious, be devoid of intelligence, will be 
a good servant in royal administration, be free from enemies, be just and honored by his 
relatives. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be chief among kings, be very wealthy, very 
happy, be endowed with a virtuous wife and be dear to people. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 7" 
Bhava: will be famous, will be endowed with several kids of wealth, Sastraic acquaintance and 
palaces and be highly meritorious. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be worshiped by the 
king, will conquer his enemies, will enjoy laded properties and wealth, be always meritorious, 
noble and skillful. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, be 
truthful, will have frequent movements (from place to place), will have good nature and be 
attached to Brahmins. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of valour, be 
unkind, interested in sinful stories, will make futile efforts and will be highly short-tempered. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, kind, will have many 
wives and many sos and be friendly in disposition. SGrya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: 
will be bereft of wife, interested in blaming others, will speak little truth (in.e. sometimes truthful 
and sometimes not), be hard-hearted and be not inclined towards charity. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will have a wicked wife, be bereft of sos, be cruel, will perform 
meritorious acts be pretentious in disposition. SUrya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will 
have many wives, will be of false disposition and be blame worthy. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in 
the 7" Bhava: will face many difficulties due to bad wife, be very impetuous and be phlegmatic. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 7 Bhava: will be attached to bad people, will visit prostitutes, 
be sinful, ungrateful, be troubled by bilious complaints, be wicked and be unintelligible. Surya, 
Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be dirty, will perform on-Sastraic acts, be intent on living 
in foreign places a be not wise. Sirya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of sos, 
will be a great liar, will have a emaciated body and be interested in promoting quarrels. Surya, 
Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be night-blind, be fierce, be subjected to much anguish, 
will experience evils, will lose wealth, be interested in vedic learning and be of mean mid. 
Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be always subjected to troubles, will have thin 
body and will be mentally troubled due to wife’s blemish. Sirya, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 7" 
Bhava: will possess and ugly wife, will be of bad character, be adverse to Sastras, be devoid of 
sos and good principles. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will make one a army 
chief, a king’s minister, do base acts and libidinous. Sirya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: 


will be unkind, be interested in sexual accounts, be cuing, be a drunkard and will acquire bad, 
or mean learning. Sirya, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be bereft of wife, be inimical 
to others, will promote quarrels and will be highly afflicted. Sirya, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 7" 
Bhava: will be devoid of money, devoid of shame, be harsh in disposition, be notoriously sinful 
(in.e. well-known for his bad deeds) and be interested in his ow people. Surya, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr in the 7 Bhava: will be free from diseases, be of pretentious disposition, be fond of meat 
and be defeated by enemies. Surya, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of 
wisdom, will have on knowledge of vedas and other Sastras, will be unfortunate and will 
promote quarrels. Surya, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will give good face, facial beauty, 
truthful disposition and virtue. Sdrya, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be give to much 
anger, be harsh in disposition, be devoid of wealth and sos and will cheat others. Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will perform auspicious acts, be beautiful, will have 
pleased mid and be a lord. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will possess a good- 
looking wife, be himself good looking, will have many sos and be just. Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be very courageous, be liberal in acts, be intelligent and be respectful 
to Brahmins and Gods. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be free from jealousy, 
be principled devoid of principles be charitable and skillful. Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sani in the 7" 
Bhava: will possess beautiful appearance, be dear to women, will have beautiful and broad 
eyes, be eloquent in speech and be dear to kings. Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: 
will be liked by good people, be truthful, endowed with wisdom, be skillful, be devoid of fear and 
be unjust. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be dear to guests, be charitable, be of 
good disposition, be greatly truthful and will respect preceptors. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 
7" Bhava: will be liked by virtuous people, will have sos, be charitable, pleased, will have 
beautiful wife and be intelligent. Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be modest, will 
face obstacles in his undertakings (will have checkered career), will be highly intelligent, be 
skillful and will destroy his enemies. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7 Bhava: will be highly 
bashful, will have sos and wife, will control his senses and will have a physique devoid of ‘evils’ 
(This will mean, that the native does not commit evils, or sin). Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 
7" Bhava: will be full of fortunes, be honoured, be akin to a king, will confer auspiciousness and 
be truthful. Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will have many wives, will hold the flag of 
virtue aloft, be truthful, happy, merciful and will destroy others. Mafgal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 
7" Bhava: will be interested in achieving distinction, will have beautiful body, will be very wealth 
and fortunate, be good looking, be chief among his me and be modest. Mangal, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be highly valorous, famous, strong will have auspicious limbs and be 
free from pains. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will acquire a skillful wife, be free from 
enemies and be just. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be a eunuch, be 
ugly, be evil-minded and harsh. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will be dull- 
witted, troubled by phlegmatic disorders, be unintelligible, be loathsome and will have a bad 
wife. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will have bad daughters and bad sos, 
will have a emaciated body, will maintain spoeechlessness and will perform uncharitable acts. 
Surya, Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr in the 7 Bhava: will be unsteady about females, interested 
in sexual accounts, be timid in nature and will have many blemishes. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Guru, Sani in the 7 Bhava: will be devoid of splendour, will be a chief cheat, be negligent of 
high order and will be inimical to people. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 7 Bhava: will 
be highly jealous, be troubled by high sexual feelings, will have a inimical wife and will be 
unintelligible. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: the native will be merciless, will 
lose his wife and children, will eat much and be harsh in speech. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, 
Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of fame, will cheat others, will have many enemies and will 
guess others’ mid. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 7 Bhava: will have evil notions, will 
enjoy conveyances, will have cardiac diseases and will be friendly to all. Surya, Candr, Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be unkind, will eat others’ food, be mean and will have a wicked 
wife. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 7" Bhava: will not be splendourous, be devoid of 
wealth, sos and gratitude and be hard-hearted. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 7" 
Bhava: will be shameless, will not study Vedas, will like sinful acts, will by nature join base me 
and be sickly. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be foolish, be fond of 
childish acts, be miserly and of bad disposition. Strya, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" 
Bhava: will be poor, will have vices, be very timid in disposition and will hate his relatives. 
Surya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava:: will have a very wicked wife, will be immodest, 
will be at all times huger-stricke and be devoid of intelligence. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr 
in the 7" Bhava: will be very kind, be justly disposed, be truthful, dear to good men and will 


acquire a virtuous wife. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: be disposed 
charitably, be dear to women and be eloquent in speech. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in 
the 7" Bhava: will be patient in disposition, will have good conduct, be praiseworthy intelligent 
and will like his relatives. Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will show interest in 
shrines, be worshiped by kings and will be served by many. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in 
the 7" Bhava: will show interest in shrines, be worshiped by kings and will be served by many. 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of enmity, be interested in giving 
charities and will be well-praised by virtuous people. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in 
the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of truth and wealth, be troubled by diseases and will be distressed 
due to royal troubles. Strya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be a 
servant, will suffer from serious diseases, will wear rags and will indulge in cheating. Surya, 
Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be troubled by diseases, be indolent and 
will have a wicked wife and will have a troubled physique. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be miserable, be immodest, troubled by huger and will incur good 
results out of fear. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be unsuccessful, 
unfriendly, unhappy, will do fierce deeds and be miserly. Sirya, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani 
in the 7" Bhava: will be interested inn others’ women, be troubled by others and will lack 
intelligence. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" Bhava: will be kingly, beautiful, 
very wealthy and be always happy. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 7" 
Bhava: will be an emperator, be very famous and be very valorous, be virtuous and be liked by 
all. 8" Surya, Candr in the 8" Bhava: will be very sickly, short-lived, friendly, happy, shameless 
and be timid in war (not bold in quarrels, disputes, uptake). Sdrya, Mangal in the 8" Bhava: will 
suffer from complaints of blood, be unsteady, be interested in sinful acts, be devoid of friends, 
will lack mental vigour and wealth. Surya, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will have bad mentality, will 
grow on others’ food, live in foreign countries, be devoid of valour and be free from enemies. 
Surya, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of self-respect, be wicked, be interested in other 
man’s wife and be devoid of intelligence. Sirya, Sukr in the 8"" Bhava: will have money, earned 
in bad ways, be ugly, will be interested in bad place, will eat the food of a bad king (will earn 
money through a corrupt employer), will have bad profession and will be conquered. Surya, 
Sani in the 8'" Bhava: will have excess phlegm in temperament, be highly rheumatic, be devoid 
of truth and passion and will always like to earn from foreign places. Candr, Mangal in the 8" 
Bhava: will have bad disposition, be troubled by diseases, miserable, unsuccessful and be able 
to guess others. Candr, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will have wicked mentality, be troubled by 
diseases, be like a eunuch, be fraudulent, will suffer from a serious disease and be a miser. 
Candr, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of meritorious acts, be short-lived, poor, foolish, 
crippled and will have bad company. Candr, Sukr in the 8"" Bhava: will be of blame-worthy 
disposition, be timid, sinful and will blame others. Candr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be desirous 
of receiving the mercy of bad people, will have futile illusion, be happy; peaceful, ad will be fiven 
up by his wife. Mangal, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will look old in your itself, be ungrateful and will 
have harmful notios. Mangal, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will have illegal money, be poor, base, will 
have many enemies, be defeated and be miser. Mangal, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be desirous 
of doing bad acts, be untruthful, will lose money out of mercy, be not valorous and be a dunce. 
Mangal, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be ugly, be issueless, will have a very wicked wife, be devoid 
of intelligence and virtue ad will live in foreign countries. Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be 
devoid of relatives, will loss wisdom, will cheat and will suffer misery on account of bad 
company. Budh, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will have a polluted physique, be unjust, will eat others’ 
food and serve others. He will have knowledge of the atom. Budh, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will 
have many aims, will be sinfully disposed, will be a tale-beared and be devoid of intelligence. 
Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will have many enemies, make enmity without purpose, have few 
children and will not be interested in Sastras. Guru, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be bereft of grains 
and wealth, will be very inimical, be troubled and be very wicked. Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: 
will join others’ wives, will eat others’ food, will serve others, will always tell lies and be unjust. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal in the 8" Bhava: will be untruthful, be not in the company of rich men, be 
not himself rich, be fierce, devoid of good qualities, be very miserable and will join bad people. 
Surya, Candr, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will be a destitute, or be mean, be of bad mental 
disposition, be not splendourous, will join very base men, mean-minded, sick and sinful. Surya, 
Candr, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be sinful, dear to wicked people, will make futile efforts, be 
interested in drinks (intoxicants) and tales, be devoid of friends and will acquire an excellent 
wife. Surya, Candr, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, will do bad acts, be very 
short-tempered, immodest, interested in others’ food ad will cheat. Strya, Candr, Sani in the 8" 


Bhava: will be untruthful, indigent, be lazy, sleepy, miserable, devoid of valour and be very 
timid. Surya, Mangal, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of friends, be poor, will have rags, 
will join rich men, will be interested in liquor and be devoid of friendliness. Surya, Mangal, Guru 
in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of truth and fame, be vividly miserable, be a miser, troubled by 
heavy expenditure and sexual feelings. Strya, Mangal, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be impure, 
unfriendly, very efficacious, timid and infamous. Sirya, Mangal, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will suffer 
from diseases, will have enemies, be not virtuous, be very ill-tempered and be bereft of his 
men. Surya, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be shameless, will blame the people, will be bereft 
of religion and profession, be not efficacious, be unkind and not happy. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr in the 
8" Bhava: will do various kind of acts, will destroy enemies, be valorous, will enjoy happiness 
from children, will indulge vicious acts and will acquire abundant grains. Sdrya, Budh, Sani in 
the 8" Bhava: will be miserable due to diseases, be not famous and be a cheat. Surya, Guru, 
Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be endowed with money and grains, be happy, will be highly skillful in 
many kinds of speech, be kind and meritorious in acts. Surya, Guru, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will 
be subjected to many diseases, will deviate from the path of religion, be not virtuous, be 
argumentative and be devoid of relatives. Surya, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be very 
miserable. Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will inflict harm to the king. Candr, Mangal, 
Guru in the 8" Bhava: will suffer from hunger and thirst and will be after sexual pleasures. 
Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be happy and will be favourable to the king. Candr, 
Mangal, Sani in the 8'" Bhava: will suffer from various kinds of diseases. Candr, Budh, Guru in 
the 8" Bhava: will be at logger heads with his wife. Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be a 
recipient of royal favours, but will be bereft of money and corn. Candr, Budh, Sani in the 8" 
Bhava: will have a number of enemies. Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be very happy 
and will possess a good wife. Candr, Guru, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be after the women of 
other men. Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will lose his wife and be devoid of intelligence. 
Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will acquire many diseases on account of misdeeds of his 
own. Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will have abundant money earned through thieves. 
Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will suffer from leprosy, much misery and much penury. 
Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will acquire diseases and poverty through many people. 
Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 8'" Bhava: will destroy many of his enemies. Mafgal, Sukr, Sani in the 
8" Bhava: will on his own increase his diseases. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will obtain 
destruction of wealth and grains. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be sickly and be skillful 
in imprisoning and killing. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will acquire many diseases. Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be highly miserable. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 8" 
Bhava: will suffer acute penury. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will suffer great 
grief. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be modest at all times, will join base 
females, will get bad sons and bad (illegal) money, will have bad qualities, will be very ill- 
tempered and very wicked. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of 
children, will have bad qualities, will be ugly, be insulted and be unintelligible. Surya, Candr, 
Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will not have skillful mentality, will be troubled by hunger, be 
shameless and be unsuccessful. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be fond of 
gambling, be bereft of money, will live in foreign countries and be inimical to the society. Surya, 
Candr, Budh, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of pleasures, will be forsaken by preceptors, 
will have a stout body and be mean in disposition. Surya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: 
will have no accomplishment, be unkind and be interested in the virtuous. Surya, Candr, Guru, 
Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be violent, be not valorous, be bereft of intelligence and wealth, be 
always sick, timid and be subjected to difficulties. Sdrya, Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will 
be wicked in speech, be interested in great sins, will join base men and will be troubled by 
enemies. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be miserable, will have low 
professions, will acquire a bad wife and will have affliction to limbs due to sexual indulgence. 
Surya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will lose parents, be truthfully disposed and be 
indolent. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be fickleminded, treacherous, will 
have bad friends, will have no accomplishment and be devoid of wealth. Surya, Mangal, Guru, 
Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be very timid, be troubled by sex, be wicked and will have money 
earned in bad ways. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be sick, bereft of wealth, 
short-lived and untruthful. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will befriend bad people, 
be interested in bad deeds, be devoid of good conduct and be harsh in speech. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will like to do bad deeds, will give up his people and be with others, 
be unwise, be not virtuous and will have no Sastraic knowledge. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in 
the 8" Bhava: will be endowed with sons, be happy, will conquer his enemies, be wise and 


wealthy. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of sons and happiness, be 
against his enemies (i.e. may not pardon his enemies), will harm his friends, be sickly and poor. 
Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will have many enemies, will enjoy, will have gains of 
wealth and corns and be always intelligible. Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will 
cohabit with many women and will hate many persons. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 8" 
Bhava: will at all times suffer from poverty, be devoid of wealth and conduct, but will have sons. 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be sickly, indigent, be a leper and will join his 
enemies. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will suffer from many diseases and penury 
and be miserable and sensuous. Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be intelligent, 
rich and friendly and will destroy enemies. Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be 
splendourous and affluent. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be intelligent, wealthy, 
will have friends and will harm his enemies. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: 
will be endowed with corns, money and happens, will have good conduct, be interested in 
SAstras and religion and will worship Gods, preceptors and Brahmins. Surya, Candr, Mafgal, 
Budh, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be blind, wise, indigent and be always after women. Sirya, 
Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will go begging, be poor, be interested in the 
knowledge of identity of the Universe with Brahma and will be highly skillful. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: The native will be a minister, rich, famous, influential, 
authoritative and will inflict punishment, as justice. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 8" 
Bhava: will be wise, bereft of happiness from wife and will live by begging. Surya, Candr, Budh, 
Guru, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be wise, bereft of happiness from wife and will live by begging. 
Additionally, the native will possess good qualities. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 8" 
Bhava: will be egoistic, be happy with regard to wife and will be wise. Surya, Mangal, Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: Surya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be very sick, 
intelligent, very poor and skillful. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be 
happy in regard to wife, be liberal, of good conduct and poor. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani 
in the 8" Bhava: will suffer from bad diseases, will kill, be imprisoned, will suffer from penury 
and be poor. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will sometimes contemplate the 
Supreme Spirit, yet sometimes be detached (from that path), will sometimes grow twisted 
(matted) hair, yet sometimes will remain tonsured and will have various (Such) guises and will 
perform very cruel acts. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 8"" Bhava: will have many 
quadrupeds, be affluent, be highly scholarly and be skillful in the sciences of Sex and Yoga. 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will always be wise, rich and be highly 
valorous in times of war. Sdrya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 8" Bhava: will be 
glorious, be merciful and will be addressed, like a great king. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will have various kinds of happiness, but be bereft of wealth and will 
enjoy with sons. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be endowed with 
abundant happiness, various kinds of wealth and will like playing with horses. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 8" Bhava: will be very rich, devoted to Brahmins and endowed 
with relatives. Sirya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani: will lord over elephants and 
horses, be chief among his men, be endowed with houses and wealth and devoted to 
Brahmins. 9" Surya, Candr: will be very modest, be a great men, be famous for his valour, be 
dear to the virtuous and be justly disposed. Surya, Mangal in the 9" Bhava: will be self- 
respected, will win over his enemies, will show interest to be free from blemish, be 
splendourous and skillful in rendering justice. Surya, Budh: will have good intelligence, be 
truthful, dear to the learned and will have many friends. Surya, Guru: will subdue his enemies, 
be happy, will enjoy gains of corns and wealth, be amiable to the virtuous and dear to the king. 
Surya, Sukr: will be endowed with greatness, be intelligent, famous and friendly. Sirya, Sani in 
the 9" Bhava: will be endowed with wealth and intelligence, be very happy in married life and 
will win over his enemies. Candr, Mangal in the 9°" Bhava: will have knowledge of Sastras, be 
very wealthy, skillful and will enjoy many kinds of food and drinks. Candr, Budh: will be happy 
with children, will conquer his five senses, be interested in religion, praiseworthy, dear to king 
and worshipped by relatives. Candr, Guru: will be not wealthy, be skillful in soeech, fond of 
pleasures, valorous, grateful, interested in Sastras and very intelligent. Candr, Sukr: will be dear 
to great men, will have knowledge of Sastras, be friendly and be attached to his relatives. 
Candr, Sani in the 9° Bhava: will be interested in religious vows and charitable acts, be dear to 
king, will have many sons and pluraty of wives, be rich and will have knowledge of Sastras. 
Mangal, Budh: will have many servants, be endowed with marital happiness, will acquire sons, 
will be an eloquent speaker and be devoid of bad qualities. Mangal, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will 
be full of virtues, will take bath in sacred rivers, will respect Brahmins and Gods, be an 


agriculturist and be justly disposed. Mangal, Sukr: will honour his guests, will have beautiful 
body, will have very pleasing appearance, be chief in his race and will be principled. Mangal, 
Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be devoid of vices, be interested in earning by truthful means, be 
courageous and will like his relatives. Budh, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will have steady mind, be 
liked by all, be merciful, will have faith in Vedas and other Sastras, will be chiefly an agriculturist 
and be always virtuous. Budh, Sukr: will have servants, will have meritorious acts to his credit, 
be egoistic, will have many friends and be dear to women. Budh, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be 
very beautiful, will have abundant landed property, will be endowed with good qualities, be quite 
wealthy and be liked by the king. Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will have wealth and fame, good 
sons and paraphernalia, be frank and fond of children. Guru, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be a 
lord, be interested in music and religion, be virtuous and favourable to good deeds. Sukr, Sani 
in the 9" Bhava: will be highly meritorious, highly learned, famous, skillful in soeech and dear to 
people. Surya, Candr, Mangal in the 9" Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, interested in 
meritorious acts and Sastraic account, will have purity of the body and be interested in good 
qualities. Surya, Candr, Budh: will consider truth, as important, be beautiful, will have broad 
eyes, be a lord, will be endowed with a pleasing body and will be attached to his sons. Surya, 
Candr, Guru: will be expert in principles of religion, will be endowed with wealth of learning, will 
be detached from sinful dealings, be very truthful and be bereft of sexual desires. Surya, Candr, 
Sukr: will be interested in speaking harshly, will not visit shrines, be of thievish disposition and 
be miserable. Sirya, Candr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be interested in religious tales, be 
favourable to preceptors, be principled, be dear to the virtuous and will trust Sastras. Sarya, 
Mangal, Budh in the 9" Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts, be cruel, untruthful, 
ill-disposed, interested in eating others’ food and will serve others. Surya, Mangal, Guru in the 
9" Bhava: will be banished from the religion, will not have good history, will have a bad wife and 
will be detached from his relatives. Sdrya, Mafgal, Sukr in the 9°" Bhava: will be devoid of 
religion and virtues, be vividly honoured, be devoid of good background and wisdom. Surya, 
Mangal, Sani in the 9'" Bhava: will be devoid of son, will lose the vigour of youth, be sinful, will 
wear rags, be highly spend-thrifs and will do irreligious acts. Surya, Budh, Guru: will be 
endowed with riches, will have many friends, will honour Brahmins, have good disposition and 
be just. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will talk much, be truthful, interested in virtues, 
grateful, will conquer his Five senses and be free from sinful desires. Strya, Budh, Sani in the 
9" Bhava: will be an agriculturist, be at all times charitably disposed, will possess good 
splendour, be strong, broad-eyed and justly disposed. Surya, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will 
possess prime virtues, will acquire grains and wealth, be great and beautiful. Surya, Guru, Sani 
in the 9" Bhava: will like (living in) foreign countries, be miserable and devoid of sexual feelings. 
Surya, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be an indifferent citizen, be immodest, be sinful by nature 
and will have an ugly physical set up. Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 9" Bhava: will be truthful, 
famous and wealthy, will be splendourous, be and astrologer, be very efficacious and great (or 
respectable). Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will enjoy happiness from sons, be 
affectionate to friends, will possess good intelligence, conquer his five senses and will be 
attached to his relatives. Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 9° Bhava: will be happy with sons, be pure, 
kind worth respect even from a king and will join classic people. Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 9" 
Bhava: will like food people, be very bashful, devoid of sexual feelings, will possess principally 
good qualities and will be destroyed by the king. Candr, Budh, Guru: will be skillful, will like 
famous people, be merciful, will visit shrines and will be alert in his duty. Candr, Budh, Sukr: will 
be good-looking, fierce, widely famous and attached to Brahmins at all times. Candr, Budh, 
Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, will conquer enemies, be highly virtuous and 
be famous. Candr, Guru, Sukr: will be famous, will possess a virtuous wife, be principally just 
and be devoid of (mundane) desires. Candr, Guru, Sani: will be a scholar of high order, be 
bereft of anger, be splendourous and be notably self-respected. Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 9" 
Bhava: will consider wealth, as a chief possession, be helpful to preceptors (or elders), be 
endowed with justice and virtues, will possess abundant Sastraic knowledge and be devoid of 
relatives. Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 9"" Bhava: will be intelligent, be endowed with knowledge of 
various Sastras, be wealthy, happy, patient and devoid of sexual feelings. Mangal, Budh, Sani 
in the 9" Bhava: will be merciful, interested in visiting shrines, will be endowed with abundant 
food and drinks, will enjoy good people and be always intelligent. Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 9" 
Bhava: will be very efficacious, egoistic, interested in Sastras and be charitable. Mangal, Guru, 
Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be free from sickness, be very wealthy, virtuous, kind and fearless. 
Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will have abundant money, elephants and horses, will 
conquer his five senses and be valorous. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will be a king, be 


honoured by enemies and will have elephants, horses and conveyances. Budh, Guru, Sani in 
the 9" Bhava: will spend on bad missions, be sickly, ungrateful, forsaken by his people and will 
like to be valorous. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be fond of quarrels, merciful, will have 
many sons, be truthful and famous. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9° Bhava: will be good looking, 
liberally disposed, modest, famous and be fond of his sons. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 
9" Bhava: will adopt (religions) vows, be interested in religion, be famous, devoted to Fire God 
and to his own relatives. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will be free from 
diseases, will possess abundant wealth, be virtuous, be not valorous and be attached to others 
wives. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will not be splendourous, will not follow 
vedic duties, be devoid of shame and will guess about others. Stirya, Candr, Mangal, Sani in 
the 9" Bhava: will be devoid of intelligence, be a dunce, be devoid of children and be highly 
short-tempered. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr: will be highly valorous, be famous, will store wealth 
and be dear to people. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 9"" Bhava: will be fond of songs, be not 
interested in sinful matters, will perform famous deeds and be free from (mundane) desires. 
Surya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 9°" Bhava: will be endowed with high grade of Sastraic 
knowledge, be interested in visiting shrines, will be charitable, very wealthy and justly disposed. 
Surya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 9°" Bhava: will be rich with various kinds of wealth, be found of 
charitability, be dutiful and be dear to people. Surya, Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 9° Bhava: will be 
liked by good people, be very justly disposed, will have many children and be highly 
respectable. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will destroy enemies, will be a lord 
and will possess conveyances, clothes and ornaments. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 9" 
Bhava: will not possess horses (i.e. conveyances), be wicked, be entirely devoid of mercy and 
will not be favourable to Brahmins. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be very 
gracious of temperament, will be an eloquent messenger (be a good ambassador) and will have 
many good conveyances and sons. Surya, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will like good 
qualities (will himself possess good qualities), be fond of good deeds, will have a modest wife 
and will be very friendly disposed. Sirya, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 9°" Bhava: will have steady 
mind, be free from enemies, grateful, enthusiastic and will be endowed with mental vigour. 
Surya, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be fond of money, will like sinful dealings, will be 
highly greedy and will be sexually distressed. Sirya, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will be 
patient, truthful, merciful, be strong in speech and be fearless. Sdrya, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 
9" Bhava: will be fickle-minded, be fond of others’ wives, be bereft of kindness and be blamed 
by relatives. Strya, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be unsteady, or excessively 
passionate, be skillful in conversations relating to sex, very miserable and dull. Surya, Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 9"" Bhava: will perform auspicious acts, be liberal in speech, will receive royal 
orders and be fierce in speech. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will like guests, be 
with wise people, be chief among his men and be justly disposed. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in 
the 9" Bhava: will be truthful, be interested in such people, skillful in relation and be patient. 
Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will possess beautiful hands and appearance, be 
chief among his men, will have much of Sastraic acquaintance and be dear to king. Candr, 
Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will have many children, be skillful in royal duties, be fond 
of visiting shrines and be and expert in Sastras. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will 
be fond of good qualities, be honoured by kings, will conquer his five senses and be self- 
respected. Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be famous, charitable, skillful highly 
learned and be rich by royal honours. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will be an 
emperor, be devoid of enemies and be endowed with elephants, horses and treasures of 
various kinds. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be endowed with liberal acts, be 
fond of good deeds, skillful and be always inclined to uphold religion. Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani 
in the 9" Bhava: will be affable, will befriend good people, be cunning and skillful. Candr, Guru, 
Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be interested in worshipping Gods and Brahmins, will have 
famous notions and will control his five senses. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will 
be highly bashful, be truthful, merciful and virtuous. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 9" Bhava: 
will have sons, wealth and pleasures of many kinds, will possess a beautiful physique and be 
acceptable to people. Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be fond of success, will be 
endowed with good history and be successful. Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9"" Bhava: will 
perform sacrifices, be lordly disposed, be charitable and be sinless. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in 
the 9" Bhava: will be expert in profane knowledge and Vedas. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru in the 9" Bhava: will be firmly courageous, be devoid of wisdom, be fierce and be bereft of 
Sastraic knowledge. Strya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will be endowed with 
various kinds of wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises, will be in the company of good 


people and be endowed with money and relatives. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 9" 
Bhava: will achieve education to its end, will have fame well-spread, be endowed with a 
pleasing physique and be expert in the branch of justice. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in 
the 9" Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins, be attached to religion, be of good disposition, be very 
wealthy and be fearless. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 9"° Bhava: will be liberal in 
disposition, be affectionate, be a great man and will be firm in friendship. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Sukr, Sani in the 9"" Bhava: will have religious faith, be charitable, be delighted, or gracious, will 
have ethical jobs and be devoid of desires. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr: will be firmly 
valorous, be devoid of intelligence, be fierce in disposition, be bereft of Vedic knowledge and be 
immodest. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will respect his mother and father, 
will be endowed with pleasing appearance, be very wealthy and be amiable to Brahmins. Surya, 
Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be interested in religious vows, be chief among 
his men, will possess a body without any disease and be amiable to people. Surya, Candr, 
Guru, Sukr. Sani in the 9" Bhava: will acquire many kinds of wealth, be fond of his wife (or 
women), will hold the flag of Virtue aloft and be famous. Surya, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 
9" Bhava: will enjoy immense wealth, be greatly intelligent, will have many friends and will 
defeat his enemies. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be grateful, 
enthusiastic, fond of charity, intelligent and beautiful. Sirya, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9" 
Bhava: will be interested in the acquisition of knowledge, be charitably disposed, virtuous, pure 
and be devoid of residence (or dependents). Sirya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9"" Bhava: will 
be shameless, be of bad disposition, be troubled by disease and will fear war (or quarrels, i.e. 
will be timidly disposed). Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will have good 
intelligence, will conquer enemies, be merciful and be fond of Brahmins. Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be bereft of diseases, be interested in undertaking acts related 
to God, be fond of good men and will be liked by the king. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in 
the 9" Bhava: will be timidly disposed, be endowed with sons and wife, be dutiful to his family 
and will always speak truth. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be endowed 
with great wisdom and learning, helpful to elders and will respect Gods and Brahmins. Candr, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be bereft of cunning tendency, will possess good 
intelligence, be charitable and be not sinful. Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: 
will be honoured by king, be fond of women and be devoid of fear and misery. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 9" Bhava: will be sinful, interested in sinful tales 
(conversation), will be in the company of bad people and be censured by people. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be predominantly jealous, be devoid of fame and 
virtues and be not wise. Sirya, Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9° Bhava: will be 
endowed with lovely pleasures, be devoid of great strength, be a dejected citizen and be of hard 
disposition. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9" Bhava: will be fraudulent, timid, 
ugly, devoid of good qualities and be highly proud. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in 
the 9" Bhava: will cause extinction (like a butcher), will eat voraciously, be sinfully disposed and 
be cruel. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 9° Bhava: will be the lord of the earth, 
will be endowed with treasury (i.e. will have abundant wealth), be fearless, will be will bestowed 
(in all respects). Sirya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani: will enjoy great happiness, be 
free from diseases and be intelligent. 10" Surya, Candr: will not be skillful, be wicked by nature, 
be of bad disposition, be not charitable and be fond of women. Surya, Mangal: will be very 
much devastated, be successful, be liked by king and fond of relatives. Surya, Budh: will be 
very intelligent, be famous, be free from desires, be fond of others, truthful and grateful. Surya, 
Guru: will help people, will have abundant wealth and conveyances and will speak affectionately 
and sweetly. Sarya, Sukr: will be self-respected, beautiful, virtuous, fearless and be well-versed 
in religious commandments. Surya, Sani: will be devoid of wealth, be eminent, will have broad 
eyes, lovely arms and face, long hair and be very intelligent. Candr, Mangal: will be honoured 
by king, will conquer enemies, will have many assignments and will earn money through 
interest (i.e. by lending). Candr, Budh: will be favourable to Brahmins, will be ever diligent, be 
interested in meritorious acts, be widely famous and be bold in his deeds. Candr, Guru in the 
10" Bhava: will be courageous, endowed with strength, wise, will have income through fair 
means, be happy, chief and devoid of foul thinking. Candr, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will acquire 
wealth and intelligence, be an agriculturist, will derive happiness through the king and be 
worshiped by him and be of exalted rank. Candr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be very modest, 
will have many friends, be famously valorous, favourable to Brahmins and be firmly virile. 
Mangal, Budh in the 10" Bhava: will be bold, intelligent, will be endowed with good disposition, 
wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises, truthful, be fond of music and be religious. Mangal, 


Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be endowed with abundant attendance (will have many servants), 
will possess god history, be interested in Vedas and others Sastras, be within the sphere of 
religion and will cause satisfaction to others. Mangal, Sukr: will be endowed with various kinds 
of eatables and drinks, will live in great shrines, be delighted, merciful and very modest. 
Mangal, Sani: will have knowledge of Vedas, be endowed with virtues, be not cunning, will have 
quadrupeds and sons, be always plentiful and will possess very pleasing appearance. Budh, 
Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be very miserable, will be famous, truthful, kind, pure in nature and 
be endowed with wealth and grains. Budh, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be fortunate, lovely, be 
fond of guests, interested in religious conversations, will have pleasing appearance and be 
firmly friendly. Budh, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in calculation i.e. will be an expert 
mathematician, will have famous job, be highly intelligent and be always attached to Gods and 
Brahmins. Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins (wise men), be highly 
intelligent, be truthful and will visit shrines. Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be chief among 
Vedic scholars, be principled, be highly valorous and be dear to people. Sukr, Sani in the 10" 
Bhava: will be highly intelligent, be pure by nature, be endowed with sovereignty, be a great 
personage and be interested in the virtuous. Surya, Candr, Mangal in the 10" Bhava: will be 
devoid of truth and vigour, be fond of battle, be dear to king, be modest in speech and be fond 
of doing good people's jobs. Surya, Candr, Budh: will be bereft of sins, be fond of wisdom (be 
intelligent), be sovereignly, will possess a charming physique and will be highly honoured. 
Surya, Candr, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be chief among the intelligentsia, will have a secure 
(unhurt) physique, will have vast attendance upon him, be chief among his men and be 
intelligent. Sdrya, Candr, Sukr: will visit shrines, be fond of attending upon good people, will 
have knowledge of justice, be very wealthy and will skillfully act with females. Surya, Candr, 
Sani in the 10" Bhava: will always maintain purity (i.e. be an orthodox person), be devoid of 
justice, will perform mean acts and will desire the advent of abundant grains. Surya, Mangal, 
Budh in the 10" Bhava: will be highly religious (or charitable), be very scholarly, will have many 
friends, be honoured by the public, be fond of the virtuous and will be very modest. Surya, 
Mangal, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will always be charitable, will possess lovely speech, be not 
showy, be fond of good people and be very modest. Surya, Mangal, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will 
be repository of truth and fame, will have plenty of money earned through sovereign honour, be 
fortunate and just. Sdrya, Mangal, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be akin to the Celestial Tree (i.e. 
capable of giving anything asked for), pleasing in appearance, be splendourous, be learned in 
Sastras, be chief in the midst of his men and be always happy. Surya, Budh, Guru: will be 
devoid of moral duty, be devoid of anger, be fond of those, who observe religious vows and be 
fond of sacrifices and Religion. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr in the 10 Bhava: will be patient, charming, 
be fond of learned circle, be very just, highly learned and be amiable to Brahmins. Surya, Budh, 
Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be highly knowledgeable, patient, truthful, kingly, very wealthy and 
be skillful in many acts. Sdrya, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be very religious, will promote 
the growth of his descent, be liked by good people and be pleasing in appearance. Surya, Guru, 
Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be endowed with commendable speech, be very modest, be very 
rich and will honour Gods and preceptors. Surya, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be famous, 
grateful, be endowed with learning, wisdom, Vedas and SAastras, be devoid of desires, be 
enthusiastic and cautious. Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 10" Bhava: will be devoid of moral 
duties, be inimical, enthusiastic, be liberal and amiable to people. Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 
10" Bhava: will consider truth, as wealth, be pleasing in appearance, be honoured by the king, 
modest, eminent, will be endowed with good drinks, wife and sons and be fond of learning. 
Candr, Mafgal, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in shrines and tales, be fortunate, will 
defeat enemies and worship Gods and Brahmins. Candr, Mafgal, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be 
splendourous, skillful in conversation, be highly bashful, honoured by kings and be skillful in 
helping others. Candr, Budh, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be worshiped by the king, be firm in 
disposition, will be endowed with exalted position (or riches), be interested in Vedas and be 
conscientious of justice. Candr, Budh, Sukr: will be kind to living beings, be very shameful, 
devoid of sexual desires, be always enthusiastic and be splendourous. Candr, Budh, Sani in the 
10" Bhava: will consider truth, as wealth, be devoid of desires, acceptable (to all), will possess 
regulated speech, be eminent, firm in disposition and be sickly disposed. Candr, Guru, Sukr in 
the 10" Bhava: will be very beautiful, very valorous, be endowed with sons and friends and will 
have abundant wealth earned by his vast intelligence. Candr, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will 
be devoid of learning and modesty, will join the company of good men, be endowed with justice 
and will be honoured by the king. Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be endowed with 
wealth, be lordly among people, will enjoy honour and fame, but be ill-tempered. Mangal, Budh, 


Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in truth, be modest, be very meritorious in his act, be 
charitable, chief of his men and pleasing to look at. Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 10° Bhava: will 
be endowed with great wealth and be very valorous, will conquer his enemies, be patient and 
be fond of visiting shrines. Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be famous, be endowed 
with wife, be very wise, be liked by women, be chief in his decent and will possess good 
qualities. Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will always be eminent, be very valorous and be 
well-disposed to relatives. Mafgal, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will earn more money through 
terrorizing act, be famous, rich and be skilful in the branch of Justice. Mafgal, Sukr, Sani in the 
10" Bhava: will be curt, will perform rash act, will be highly distressed, will have abundant 
wealth and be important in his decent. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be a great king, 
be very valorous, charitable and truthful. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be saintly, 
courageous, be greatly affluent, will know justice and be fond of his relatives. Budh, Sukr, Sani 
in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in (creating) park and well, be charitable and will attain fame 
by his vat wisdom. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be pure by nature, be eminent by his 
intelligence, be honoured by the virtuous and will be free from ailment. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Budh in the 10" Bhava: will be a repository of learning, be endowed with abundant wealth, will 
have unlike (on) and be forsaken by others. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will 
have many servant, be splendourous, be liked by the virtuous and king. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be endowed with horses (i.e. conveyances), will proper greatly, be 
not given to anger and be fond of God and Brahmin. Surya, Candr, Mafgal, Sani in the 10" 
Bhava: will have abundant wealth and Sastraic knowledge, be grateful, endowed with robe and 
ornament and will possess good qualities. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru: will be a skillful speaker, 
be firm in disposition, be free from sins and be ever exalted. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 
10" Bhava: will be grateful, enthusiastic and will be praised by the virtuous. Surya, Candr, Budh, 
Sani in the 10" Bhava: make one wealthy and ungrateful. SGrya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 10" 
Bhava: will possess good qualities, be famous, charitable and be a scholar. Surya, Candr, 
Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will befriend many, be happy with on, be very kind and will be 
devoted to penance. Surya, Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be splendourous, pure, be 
a chief personage, be ever diligent, honourable and noble. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 
10" Bhava: will be truthful, fond of Brahmin, be devoid of desire, be famous, will visit shrines 
and will have many on. Surya, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in guest, 
be in the company of good men, be learned and friendly disposed. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Sani 
in the 10" Bhava: will make one an army chief, a king’ minister, do mean act and go after 
mundane pleasures. Surya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be well-disposed, will 
have great wealth, many on, be grateful, splendourous and virtuous. Sirya, Mangal, Guru, Sani 
in the 10" Bhava: will be a scholar, skilful in justice, be jealous and firmly virile. Sdrya, Mangal, 
Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be a devoted townsmen, be self-respected and be endowed 
with sons, wealth and conveyances. Surya, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be 
endowed with various kinds of wealth, drinks and many sons, be highly learned and skilful in his 
work. Sdrya, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will receive royal honour, will have knowledge 
of religious performance, be valorous, be a poet and will be against sins. Sirya, Budh, Sukr, 
Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be very kind, be truthful, be devoted to Fire God and will possess a 
pleasing appearance. Surya, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be virtuous, be always 
interested in his father’ assignment, be amiable to people and will be wealthy. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will principally earn through his servant, be devoid of enemies 
and always be fond of assembly and skilful people. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 10" 
Bhava: will be fond of installing gardens and tree, be splendourous, will possess horses and be 
bereft of good qualities. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be charitable, be very 
famous and be helpful to relatives. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be famous, 
be interested in Sastraic conversation, be faithful to religion and be endowed with religion. 
Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be highly intelligent, be very proficient, be 
praiseworthy, be helpful, to people and will have good servant. Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 
10" Bhava: will be of pleased disposition, be dear to king, will possess an attractive physique 
and be skilful in Justice. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will possess a band of 
elephant and horses and will destroy his enemies. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: 
will have many sons, be rich by fair mean, be liberal, grateful and be free from bodily diseases. 
Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be endowed with patience, will possess an ugly 
body, truthful and will have wealth and sons. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be 
learned, be great poet, be highly religious, will perform meritorious act, be a good personage 
and be beautiful in appearance. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will have many 


friend, abundant wealth and softly robe, be fortunate and be devoid of good-will. Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be heroic, be dear to king, be skilful in conducting a war, will 
possess a big treasury i.e. be highly wealthy and be acceptable to people. Mangal, Budh, Sukr, 
Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be enthusiastic, be very just, be enduring, will conquer his five 
senses and be pleasing to look at. Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be firm in 
disposition, be skilful in performance, be ever diligent, be very wealthy and be delighted. Budh, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be fond of exalted service (i.e. will make attempt to 
reach a high position of life), will be pleasing in appearance, be a great man and be fond of 
Brahmin. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be valorous, just, will 
possess good physique, be highly shy and be free from diseases. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Sukr in the 10° Bhava: will be truthful, kind will be endowed with good conduct, be a dealer in 
gold and be happy. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be chief in his 
decent, be principled, learned and skilful in poetry. SGrya, Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr in the 10" 
Bhava: will be an expert in art, be endowed with patience, interested in being honoured and be 
learned in justice. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 10° Bhava: will perform sacrifice, be 
enthusiastic, be devoid of pain, be an agriculturist and be wealthy. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr, 
Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will win over his enemies, be eminently rich and 
be justly disposed. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr: will be extremely patient, be devoid of sins, 
be eminently intelligent and be a winner in regard to Sastras (will win anybody in the matter of 
Sastras). Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be learned, modest, will reach 
an eminent status, be fond of sacrifice and conveyance. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 
10" Bhava: will be dear to people, be happy with living being (i.e. will possess animal etc.), be 
grateful, be endowed with distinguished speech and will possess an attractive body. Surya, 
Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will have many horses (i.e. conveyance), will 
possess a body free from sickness, be plentiful, be principally reach and be skilful in 
assignments relating to war. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be free 
from diseases, be dear to women, will have foul speech and be very beloved. Surya, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will possess many horses, be valorous, learned and will 
have many friend. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 10° Bhava: will have many children, 
be truthful, pure, delighted, fond of visiting shrines and follow religious vow. Surya, Mangal, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10° Bhava: will be very justly disposed, will have vat attendance upon 
him, will have good history and learning, be intelligent, will not trouble others, will be highly 
patient and be fond of his wife. SGrya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10° Bhava: will be wise, 
equal to the preceptor of God (i.e. highly learned, like Jupiter, the preceptor of God), be 
religious, will have vat knowledge of Sastras and will possess good qualities. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be liked by many king, be principal among poet and be 
modest. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in having 
religious vow, be skilful in living in foreign countries, will earn wealth by fair mean and be bereft 
of vice. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be valorous justly disposed, 
virtuous, be a poet and be libidinous. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be 
liked by god people, be devoid of artificial disposition and be fond of serving the virtuous. 
Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be a principal royal officer, be endowed 
with elephant and horses, be diligent in performing yagia and be worshipped by relatives. 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in poetry, be skilful in 
various Sastras, be wealthy, enthusiastic and be cautious. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr in the 10" Bhava: will be king of king, be devoid of his own men, be very valorous and be 
splendourous. Sirya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 10 Bhava: will be a synonym of 
charity, be a king, be virtuous, be very graciously disposed and be dear to people. Surya, 
Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will visit famous shrines, be a principal 
person with the king, be interested in learning and be devoid of fear. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will be fond of partaking in battle, be of an exalted rank with 
the king, be famous, merciful and truthful. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" 
Bhava: will be endowed with various kind of elephant and horses, be fond of guest and be 
widely famous. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10° Bhava: it lead to 
vagabondness and high wisdom. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10° Bhava: will 
be steady in disposition and will have his feet above the bejeweled head of the king (i.e. the 
king will prostate before the native, that the native is so eminent). Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 10" Bhava: will have the wealth of truth and fame, be a king, be 
charitable and famous. 11" Surya, Candr: will have financial gain, be always plentiful, will 
possess superior horses, will be devoted to the Almighty and will be very friendly disposed. 


Surya, Mangal: will be courageous, will destroy enemies, will not join the band of inner, be 
devoid of pride and be lordly disposed. Surya, Budh in 11": will have plenty of gain, be a skillful 
trader, be wealthy, will have knowledge of justice, be learned and be fond of all people. Surya, 
Guru: will be interested in Brahmins’ assignment, be fond of garden and well, will perform 
Yagna, be learned in many SAastras and be skillful in husbandry. Surya, Sukr: will have many 
friends, be dear to king and be firmly courageous. Surya, Sani: will be endowed with various 
kinds of wealth, be high-souled, be a scholar, be grateful, free from miseries and delighted. 
Candr, Mangal: will have relatives, will be intelligent, skillful, will have many friends and be 
pleasing to look at. Candr, Budh in the 11" Bhava: will be fortunate, good looking, learned, 
splendourous, plentiful, will have many friend and be very friendly. Candr, Guru: will be free 
from diseases, be scholarly, will conquer his enemies, will have growth and gain of money, be a 
great man and be dear to king. Candr, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be free from diseases, be 
learned, will have excellent children, be truthful, eminent, will have attractive eyes and be fond 
of women. Candr, Sani: will be fond of praise, will have happiness of many kinds, will earn wide 
fame, be charitably disposed and will win over enemies. Mangal, Budh in the 11 Bhava: will 
have plenty of gain, will conquer his five senses, be fond of Sastras, be eminent, be always 
happy and be of agreeable disposition. Mangal, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will not be sinful, be 
very efficacious, be modest, be always diligent and will care for Brahmins. Mangal, Sukr: will be 
supreme by virtue of his religious vow and initiation, be well-read, enthusiastic, be of exalted 
rank, be patient and will worship (be loyal to) the king. Mafgal, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be 
famously efficacious, will conquer his five senses, be courageous, eminent and will always 
enjoy abundant robe and ornament. Budh, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with 
elephant and horses, be splendourous, be pure, be of exalted rank, be fond of visiting shrines 
and be skillful in all art. Budh, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with many excellent 
pearls, will have many sons, be very meritorious in his act, be of good qualities, be pure in 
disposition and be dear to all. Budh, Sani in the 11 Bhava: will have an auspicious wife, will 
himself be auspicious, be attached to well-meaning person, be interested in yagna and be 
always favorable to relative. Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be extremely intelligent, will 
possess a pleasing face, will have a wife, be famous, will enjoy physical pleasure and be happy. 
Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will worship Brahmins, be very splendourous, very wealthy, lordly 
and famous. Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be interested in many Sastras, be endowed with 
gold and precious stone, like cat’s eye, pearl and ruby, be a loyal citizen and be principled. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with hundred of gain, be 
splendourous, be justly disposed, will have beautiful eye, will perform auspicious act and be 
free from desire. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 11" Bhava: will have virtuous principle to follow, will 
reach an exalted rank, will possess attractive face and eye, will be fond of women, be fond of 
truth and be very friendly disposed. Strya, Candr, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be very famous, 
will worship God, will have many kinds of wealth and abundant Sastraic knowledge, be highly 
learned, be famous and will be praised even by the confident. Strya, Candr, Sukr in the 11" 
Bhava: will be free from diseases, be splendourous, pleasing in appearance, proficient, be dear 
to king and will always be at the service of the virtuous. Sdrya, Candr, Sani in the 11 Bhava: 
will be endowed with happiness, will be good looking, will acquire abundant wealth, 
conveyance, food and clothe, will have obedient servant and be firmly friendly in nature. Surya, 
Mangal, Budh in the 11" Bhava: will possess great brilliance, be a skillful justice, will possess a 
surprising physique and also ornament, be free from desire, will have great Vedic knowledge 
and be skillful in religious act. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be highly intelligent, 
will possess an attractive physique, be a will dispose person, be religious and long-live. Surya, 
Mangal, Sukr in the 11'" Bhava: will be very wealthy, be learned in Veda, dear grateful, will 
possess an attractive physique and be interested in Sastras. Strya, Mangal, Sani in the 11" 
Bhava: will be very intelligent very attractive, fortunate, religious and long-lived. Surya, Budh, 
Guru: will be gainful, will be skillful in orthodox law, will adopt virtuous course, be very famous, 
be firm in disposition, be honoured and will reach an eminent rank. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr in the 11" 
Bhava: will be free from diseases, highly learned, be interested in Sastras, be endowed with 
sloe, will destroy enemies and will honour Brahmins. Sdrya, Budh, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will 
be respected by all the king, will be initiated, be very interested in Sastras will reach a very 
eminent position and will honour Brahmins. Sdrya, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will possess 
brilliance, be courageous, will consider virtue a his wealth, will have knowledge of justice, be of 
firm disposition and be respected by the king. Sirya, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be 
valorous, be very rich, will have knowledge of many sacred precept, be learned and be 
peaceful. Sirya, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be strong, delighted, modest, kind and will 


worship God and elder. Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 11" Bhava: will possess rich conveyance, 
will earn by truthful mean, be fond of people and be devoid of fear. Candr, Mangal, Guru in the 
11" Bhava: will be free from sweating and diseases, be liberal, fortunate, will posses a pleasing 
body, will have conveyance and be eminent. Candr, Mafgal, Sukr in the 11 Bhava: will be 
truthful and argumentative, be a member (or atant) of an assembly (or a meeting) will have all 
kind of happiness and will earn ornament by worship of lord Siva. Candr, Mangal, Sani in the 
11" Bhava: will earn wealth, be attractive, highly intelligent, pure and be a great man. Candr, 
Budh, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be fond of joining assembly of skillful men, be eminent, 
learned, be a repository of varied art and be happy through the pleasure of the ruler. Candr, 
Budh, Sukr: will be endowed with complexion akin to evening twilight, will be worshiped by the 
men of the world, will possess beautiful teeth and eyes, be fortunate, will destroy enemies, be 
fond of visiting shrines and be amiable to Brahmins. Candr, Budh, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be 
endowed with horses and elephant, will be a pleasing speaker, be merciful, will donate gold and 
be fond of sons. Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be pure, will be endowed with a 
delighted face, will tend to become famous, be well praised by the virtuous and be skillful. 
Candr, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be devoid of fear, be skillful in war preparation and 
activities related to war, fond of grape and learned in Sastras. Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 11" 
Bhava: will have various gain, be delighted, be a delighting speaker and be delighting to eye. 
Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 11 Bhava: will be highly libidinous, will have an attractive physique, 
attractive feet and hand, will look highly beautiful and will be endowed with a number of horses 
and elephant. Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 11 Bhava: will be interested in his duty, be grateful, 
be highly learned, be very just, very patient, be a commendable speaker and be worshiped by 
the king. Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be truthfully disposed, be good-looking, 
intelligent, justly disposed, praise worthy and will be endowed with various gain from war. 
Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be patiently disposed, will practice penance, be 
honourable, be bereft of enemies and be endowed with knowledge of religious rule, learning 
and ornament. Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be learned, liberal in speech, 
fortunate, will have an attractive body, be fond of horses and be wealthy with all kind of 
happiness. Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be beautiful, firm in disposition and 
friendship, will be endowed with good history and be free from dispute. Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 
11" Bhava: will have attractive appearance, be endowed with elephant, horses and wealth, be 
cautious, endowed with good qualities and highly learned in Sastras. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 
11" Bhava: will be very patient, will have many sons, will possess wide learning and vat number 
of ornament, will be bleed with meritorious act and be very kind. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 11" 
Bhava: will be fond of obtaining distinction, be a king, principal person, be highly praised and 
fond of visiting shrines. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be splendourous, will have 
mellifluous voice, be a very important person of the whole dynasty, be virtuous and wealthy. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with great wealth, be fortunate, 
will win over enemies, will be very liberal and will destroy others. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru in 
the 11" Bhava: will have many children, will be justly disposed, be acquainted with the king, will 
defeat enemies and will be famously efficacious. Strya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: 
will gain gold, pearl, ruby and robe, will be broad-minded and be a royal employee. Surya, 
Candr, Majfgal, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be very kind, be capable of grieving others, be dear 
to king and be highly slpendorous. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru: will be valorous, virtuous, very 
learned, worth worship and endowed with good qualities. Sirya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 11" 
Bhava: will be endowed with learning by nature, be learned a poet, be will acquainted with Veda 
and be helpful to people. Strya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be of gracious 
disposition, will honour great men (or teacher), will have great learning and will enjoy war. 
Surya, Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be fond of Sastras, will enjoy fame, be 
interested in virtue, will be dear and learned. Sirya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be 
highly efficacious, will exhibit valour, be interested in donating to others and be very intelligent. 
Surya, Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 11° Bhava: will be famous, liberal and kind, be bereft of 
diseases and will be pleased among Brahmins. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 11" Bhava: 
will enjoy good conveyance, will crush his enemies, be efficacious and will be expert in justice. 
Surya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be liberal in speech, be attached to good men, 
be fond of king and be valorous. Sdrya, Mafigal, Budh, Sani in the 11'" Bhava: will enjoy 
elaborate arrangement (i.e. all paraphernalia), will be an expert artisan and will possess 
abundant wealth and a number of conveyance. Sirya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: 
will be fond of relative, will be a repository of all kind of happiness, will be highly satisfied and be 
very modest. Surya, Majfgal, Guru, Sani in the 11 Bhava: will be highly rich, be liked by women 


and be endowed with good history, learning and vedic knowledge. Surya, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in 
the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with splendour be killed in all art, skillful and merciful and be 
charitable. Sirya, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be highly famous, be devoid of desire 
and will possess beautiful eye and good qualities. Sdrya, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: 
will be served by others, will follow religious observation, will possess a body free from injuries, 
or will be free from malice in thought, will hold aloft flag of charity and will not be mean (i.e. will 
be great) Sirya, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 11 Bhava: will be firm in disposition, be free from fear 
and in, will surprise in speech and be learned in Veda. Sarya, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" 
Bhava: will acquire several gain, be delighted and be agreeable to people. Candr, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with great learning and abundant riches, be a 
ruler, will destroy his enemies and be quite charitable. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 11" 
Bhava: Not available. Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will have elf restraint, will 
eat Brahmins’ food, will possess a good physique, be very patient, very charitable and will be 
pleasing to look at. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 11 Bhava: will be expert in dealing with 
machinery, will honour teacher, will be intelligent, will have all kind of happiness and be 
plentiful. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be a ruler, will join good men, will 
enjoy plenty of food and drink and will be in the company of skillful men. Candr, Mangal, Sukr, 
Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be lord of king (i.e. be an emperor), will be endowed with horses, be 
valorous and be scholar. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be a king with sea a 
boundaries of his kingdom, will eliminate his enemies and will perform very charitable act. 
Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be splendourous, be an auspicious speaker (or 
will peak only good word), be a leader of scholar, be a lord of the earth and be agreeable to 
Brahmins. Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be good-looking, be a ruler, interested 
in visiting shrines, be a principal person and be skillful in war. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 
11 Bhava: will be bright in appearance, will perform meritorious act, will win over his enemies, 
will be a ruler and be well versed in Sastras. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will 
enjoy all kind of happiness, will suffer from windy complaint, be distinguished, be a ruler and a 
scholar. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be valorous, be a lord, will destroy 
enemies, will have an attractive face and be charitable. Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 11" 
Bhava: will be strong, or fat, will carry out royal order, be valorous, be devoid of fear and be 
dear to Brahmins. Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with many sons, 
abundant wealth and great justice, be a ruler and be devoid of enemies. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani 
in the 11 Bhava: will be highly learned, be lord of the earth and be interested in Vedic studies. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru: will be virtuous, be enthusiastic, be a king, be highly 
wealthy and a skillful warrior. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 11‘ Bhava: will be an 
excellent person, be learned in veda, be not artificial in disposition, be a ruler and be 
meritorious. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be valorous, be highly 
bashful, be a king, be cautious, grateful, fierce and be bold in war. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, 
Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with sons, riches, happiness and pleasure, wise and be 
a king. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will have many sons, will follow 
religious observation, be delighted in disposition and be highly greedy. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Sukr, Sani in the 11‘ Bhava: will be a great scholar, will be honoured by the king, will be 
endowed with the wealth of elephant (i.e. will have a large number of conveyance) and be 
averse to sinful act. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr: will have many children, will be highly 
virtuous, be versed in justice, be delighted and be very friendly. Sdrya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani 
in the 11 Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins, be dear to women, be very bashful and famous. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be in the midst of king, be charitable, 
virtuous and be very wealthy. Sdrya, Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed 
with virtue, will please others, will possess beautiful eye, be interested in Wigwam and be 
famous. Surya, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 11" Bhava: will respect parent at all time, be 
pleasing be a scholar and be patient. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 11 Bhava: will be 
chief among the men of his dynasty, will have even enemies honour him, be very virtuous and 
be very charitable. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will observe religious 
vow and fasting, will be devoted to God and Brahmins, charitably disposed, be truthful and kind. 
Surya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be splendourous, be learned in many 
SAstras, be virtuous and pure. Sdrya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be 
interested in learning, will respect God and Brahmins, be inimical to others and be intelligent. 
Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 11'" Bhava: will be kind, be endowed with service, or 
duty, will have beautiful face and be worshiped by relative. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in 
the 11" Bhava: will be honoured by the ruler, be skillful in agricultural work, be injured, be 


devoid of enemies and be endowed with wealth. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 11" 
Bhava: will be endowed with Sastraic leaning and wealth, will destroy his enemies, be a ruler 
and be highly skillful in Sastras. Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will have 
abundant learning, be great, will have beautiful knee and be free from sickness. Candr, Budh, 
Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be interested in poetry and tale, be valorous and 
charitable. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11 Bhava: will be faithful, be abundantly 
wealthy, be famous, will have many sons and be endowed with elaborate eating comfort. Surya, 
Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 11 Bhava: will be endowed with prosperity, learning 
and wealth, be grateful and be firmly valorous. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 
11" Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, be intelligent, be learned and be devoid of 
diseases. Sirya, Candr, Mafgal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be highly learned, be 
splendourous, will have knowledge of religious commandment, be worshiped and be virtuous. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will honour Brahmins (or the 
learned), be interested in listening to divine stories, be famous and be learned in Sastras. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be fond of garden etc., devoted to 
God, be distinguished, be attached to the virtuous and be expert in Sastras. Sdrya, Mangal, 
Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 11" Bhava: will be truthful, be chief in his race, be very wise and 
be skillful in singing. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani: will be head of all kings (be an 
emperor), be distinguished and be not delighted, but be endowed with elephants and horses. 
12" Surya, Candr in the 12" Bhava: will be short-lived, be charitable and ugly, will do the others’ 
job and will always join bad men. Surya, Mangal in the 12" Bhava: will be distressed, will have 
an emaciated body, be troubled by others, be highly sinful, wicked and devoid of good qualities. 
Surya, Budh in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of sickness, will expend on bad mission, be cruel, 
miserly, dull, not virtuous and be fond of war. Surya, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will have vice, be 
dirty sickly, ungrateful, will make futile effort and be devoid of religion. Sdrya, Sukr in the 12" 
Bhava: will have littlhe happiness, be ugly, be distressed due to the vice of his wicked wife, be 
fond of sin and be troubled by his libidinous disposition. Sirya, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be 
inimical to the public, interested in base men and will be burdened by expense on bad deed. 
Candr, Mangal in the 12" Bhava: will be hard-hearted, will have mean profession, will be fond of 
a high degree of purity, be fear stricken and be not virtuous. Candr, Budh in the 12" Bhava: will 
indulge in quarrel, be indigent, distressed be very fear stricken and be devoid of splendour. 
Candr, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be harsh in speech, will posses an ugly body, be interested 
in living in other countries, be devoid of wealth and be not friendly. Candr, Sukr in the 12" 
Bhava: will be bereft of wealth, be burdened by expense, be a servant, be wicked, be unkind 
and be distressed due to anyone. Candr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will have bad wife, base sons, 
inferior grain and enmity, be homeless and be devoid of valour. Mangal, Budh in the 12" Bhava: 
will be ugly to look at, be homeless, be troubled by many diseases, be not sensible and be 
bereft of truth and purity. Mangal, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be very infamous, be sexually 
distressed, be miserable, be burdened by expense, be at the disposal of others and be troubled 
by relatives. Mangal, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will not have much wealth, be distressed due to 
sons, be not charitable, be always sick, be very mean and be ungrateful. Mangal, Sani in the 
12" Bhava: will be devoid of learning of Sastras and religious commandment, be troubled by 
wound, boil etc., will suffer eye disease, be unlucky and be sexually distressed. Budh, Guru: will 
be principally an atheist (or a degraded Brahmin), be unkind, be endowed with sons and 
relatives, be defeated by woman and be illusioned. Budh, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be 
merciless, will have many enemies, will be of bad disposition, be inimical and be devoid of 
female and be disappointed. Budh, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be very cunning, be distressed 
due to vice, will wear dirty robe, be in the custody of female and be disappointed. Guru, Sukr in 
the 12" Bhava: will be bereft of quadruped and servants, will suffer from a number of diseases, 
will lose his wealth, will be hard-hearted and be defeated by enemies. Guru, Sani in the 12 
Bhava: will be hard-hearted, be defeated by women, be in the company of people, be timid, 
sinful and be blameworthy. Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will cheat others, be devoid of history, 
be sick, will wander aimlessly and be without friend. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal in the 12" Bhava: 
will be a skillful inner, be fond of gambling, be ungrateful, be always diseased and will blame 
Brahmins. Surya, Candr, Budh in the 12" Bhava: will be poor, sick, illiterate, will be subjected to 
many trouble, be wicked, miserly, very greedy, libidinous and will wear dirty clothe. Surya, 
Candr, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be interested in bad society, be ugly, devoid of religion, will 
blame others and be bereft of virtue, intelligence and Sastraic learning. Sirya, Candr, Sukr in 
the 12" Bhava: will have weak neck due to sufferance from hunger, will lose bodily vigour, will 
be unabashed, be ugly, distressed and unfriendly. Surya, Candr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will 


suffer from tuberculosis, be distressed due to phlegmatic disease, be not splendourous, be 
reduced to great trouble and will suffer in the hand of enemies. Surya, Mangal, Budh in the 12" 
Bhava: will suffer from tuberculosis, be a dunce, be villainous, be devoid of Sastraic learning, be 
interested in tale bearer and will incur royal displeasure. Surya, Mangal, Guru in the 12" Bhava: 
will lose his wealth, will have a number of evil friends, be dull-witted, be devoid of fame, will 
have ill-gotten money and acquire a bad wife. Sirya, Mangal, Sukr in the 12° Bhava: will be 
sexually distressed, be very base, be devoid of good history, be very distressed sick and be 
fond of quarrel. Sirya, Mangal, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be distressed due to heavy 
expenditure, be interested in bad act, be a dunce, be free from fear of imprisonment and will be 
averse to Sastras. Surya, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be libidinous, blame worthy, be very 
short tempered, be meritorious ugly, unlucky and will not be praised in the society. Surya, Budh, 
Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be cunning, hard hearted, be devoid of distinction, be interested in 
tale bearer, will have an ugly appearance and will be devoid of desire and enthusiasm. Surya, 
Budh, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will not be in the company of good men, be not wealthy, be a 
dunce and wicked, be interested in others wives, will expend on bad mission and will incur royal 
wrath. Surya, Guru, Sukr in the 12'" Bhava: will not be wealthy, be a servant, be bad in 
disposition, be wicked and distressed out of fear. Sdrya, Guru, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be 
impetuous, will eat others’ food, be very mean and be devoid of wisdom, learning and 
education. Sdrya, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be timid, valorous, devoid of justice, devoid 
of virtue and be fear stricken. Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth 
and wisdom, be ill tempered, unjust, will have many enemies and will be a warrior. Candr, 
Mangal, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be libidinous, blame worthy, be devoid of sons, be 
interested in others’ job, be wicked and fear-filled. Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be 
base, fond of gambling merciless, splendourous, miserly and be troubled by enemies. Candr, 
Mangal, Sani in the 12° Bhava: will have a bad (diseased) body, be devoid of his relatives, be 
defeated by female and be wicked in disposition. Candr, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be 
devoid of kindness and be highly afflicted. Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of 
sexual desire, be impetuous, indecisive, or uncertain, be interested in sinful men and be bereft 
of parent. Candr, Budh, Sani in the 12'° Bhava: will be distressed due to vice, be greedy, base, 
unfaithful and will cheat others. Candr, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be unwealthy, 
homeless, unwise, fond of war and be dishonoured. Candr, Guru, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be 
wicked, highly sinful and will have many vice. Candr, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be base, 
will join base men, will be defeated by base men, be himself very base and be devoid of 
pleasure and virtue. Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be highly distressed by 
abundant fear and peaceless, be very proud, be interested in good stories and will honour 
religious oblation, Brahmins and God. Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be illiterate, 
unfortunate, very pious, merciful and be devoid of affection. Mafgal, Budh, Sani in the 12" 
Bhava: will be devoid of learning, pleasure and wealth, be hard hearted and will have bad sons. 
Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be wicked, will wander fruitlessly, will indulge in 
irreligious act, be splendourous and just. Mafgal, Guru, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be 
interested in telling, be wounded, ungrateful, devoid of Sastraic knowledge and be not valorous. 
Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, wife, visits to shrines, sons and 
fame, will also be distressed by fear. Budh, Guru, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will not be wise, be 
very cunning, be delighted and fierce in act. Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be highly 
miserable, will befriend wicked men and be wise and intelligent. Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" 
Bhava: will kill Brahmins, be not splendourous, will wear rag, depend on others and be devoid 
of relatives. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh in the 12" Bhava: will be subjected to much trouble, 
will be distressed due to sinful tendencies and will not beget desired food. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be ungrateful, be not splendourous, be ugly, will fear much 
and will have many enemies. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be troubled by 
others, will have wife and sons, be highly respected and be highly sinful. Surya, Candr, Mangal, 
Sani in the 12" Bhava: will not be intelligent, be highly ‘distinguished’ for his vice, be devoid of 
obstruction and will not be splendourous. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will not 
be bright, will be very distressed due to his disease, be very timid and will be devoid of fame. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will not have splendour, be bereft of wisdom and 
truth, be fierce and averse to sinful act. Surya, Candr, Budh, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will suffer 
from serious disease, be ungrateful, will join mean men and be mean-minded. Surya, Candr, 
Guru, Sukr in the 12° Bhava: will be highly ill tempered, will not have intelligence and money, be 
not bashful and will be interested in war. Sirya, Candr, Guru, Sani in the 12 Bhava: will be 
timid, will suffer from disease of the rectum, will have burning sensation (or will be thirsty) and 


be not splendourous. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will not be learned in 
SAstras, will have many vice, will not follow good path and will suffer from many disease. Surya, 
Mangal, Budh, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be interested in base men, will be highly afflicted, will 
eat bad food, take bad drink and be very ill tempered. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 12" 
Bhava: will suffer from phlegmatic and windy disease, will not be virtuous and will be able to 
guess others’ mind. Sirya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will expend on bad mission, 
will be highly ill tempered, will have less Sastraic learning and be mean-minded. Surya, Majgal, 
Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be troubled by base men, will himself be very mean, be 
distressed and will have miserable sons. Sirya, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 12 Bhava: will not be 
kind, will have a wicked wife, be mean minded and will be bereft of wealth. Surya, Budh, Guru, 
Sani in the 12" Bhava: will have an injured physique, will posses a prominent wife, will be free 
from fear of imprisoment, will face destruction of wealth. Sdrya, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 12" 
Bhava: will not be faithful, will accuse Brahmins, be a miser, will have an emaciated physique 
and be dull-witted. Strya, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will suffer on account of his own 
kindness, will not have preceptor and will not have a job to do. (i.e. will be devoid of livelinood). 
Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will not be patient, will be very ill tempered, will 
lose truthful disposition and will be devoid of wife. Candr, Mafigal, Budh, Sukr in the 12 Bhava: 
will be a miser, will suffer from sickness, be devoid of desire and will be troubled by king and 
thieve. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will suffer from bilious complaint, will be 
devoid of preceptor and will be miserable on account of female company. Candr, Mangal, Guru, 
Sukr in the 12'" Bhava: will be very fierce in disposition, will invite risk, will indulge in inimical 
activities, will be expelled out of his caste and will be blamed by the society. Candr, Mangal, 
Guru, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be very afflicted, will be interested in others’ wives, will expend 
on bad thing and will suffer from disease. Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 12°" Bhava: will be 
bereft of sons, will resemble ‘fire’ in appearance, will be interested in sinful tale, will be defeated 
by female and servant. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be a bad mater, be not 
pure, will be devoid of wealth, be unkind, be fond of intoxicant drink and will have bad 
disposition. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be mean, irascible, uncharitable, 
defeated by women be unkind and will not demonstrate, or prove himself. Candr, Budh, Sukr, 
Sani in the 12 Bhava: will be impetuous, wicked, will have an injured body, will have burning 
sensation and will be blamed by people. Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be 
devoid of wisdom, be not virtuous, be troubled by others and be a miser. Mangal, Budh, Guru, 
Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will not be bright, be deformed (or distressed), be ugly, be blameworthy 
and be bereft of friendship. Mafgal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be sinful, defeated, 
be troubled by women, will have little education, be dejected and fear stricken. Mangal, Budh, 
Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be mean, will join bad people, will adopt others’ religion, will 
spend on bad thing and be amiable to Brahmins. Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12° Bhava: will 
be homeless, unfriendly, will suffer from lever disorder and will incur royal displeasure. Surya, 
Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will wear rag, be devoid of affection, will have 
enemies, be greedy, will perform his duties and be delighted. Sdrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr 
in the 12" Bhava: will indulge in bad act, will be friend bad people, be blameworthy, be always 
sick and be troubled by relatives. SGrya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be 
interested in Molims, be attached to others’ women and will serve bad society. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of fame, be against society, will have 
blame worthy religion and blameworthy business. Sirya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sani in the 12" 
Bhava: will be very miserable, be subjected to trouble out of disease, will always be sick, be 
timid and will have little wealth. SGrya, Candr, Mangal, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be 
devoid of fame, be interested in drink, be cunning in disposition, be hard-hearted, fierce and 
inimical. Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be quite miserable, be 
interested in wicked people’ company, be highly phlegmatic, be dull-witted and blameworthy. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 12'" Bhava: will be inimical to his castemen, will be 
devoid of good qualities and be artificial in disposition. SGrya, Candr, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 
12" Bhava: will be a principal cheat, be very cruel and will be won over by mean people. Surya, 
Candr, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be very rich, be sensuous, blameworthy, fierce 
and timid. Sirya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be bereft of mercy, will lose 
his wife and children, will eat veraciously and will be harsh in speech. Surya, Mangal, Budh, 
Guru, Sani in the 12 Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, wife and vice be harsh, inimical and bad 
in disposition. Sdrya, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will not be wealthy, be fierce, 
be fond of quarrel, be ugly and will cheat others. Sdrya, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" 
Bhava: will suffer from various kind of disease, will be interested in befriending bad people, will 


be very libidinous and be timid. Sirya, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be dull 
witted, will have a bad body, will have fearful eye, be inimical to Brahmins, be defeated by 
enemies and be impetuous. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be fond of 
telling, be against, greatness, be devoid of his own men and will have wounded body. Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will become trayed, be against friendly principle, be 
not kind and be irascible. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will betray, be 
illiterate, be devoid of wife and sons and will be inimical to the king. Candr, Mafgal, Guru, Sukr, 
Sani in the 12 Bhava: will be interested in mean women, be interested in undesirable 
friendship, religion and learning and be very sinful. Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" 
Bhava: will always be troubled by injuries, will be possessing bad thinking, be homeless, be not 
splendourous and be ugly. Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of 
wealth, be fierce, be fond of quarrel and will have lo of wisdom and wealth. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of brightness, be interested in joining 
others’ ideas, will obstruct Brahmins and will cheat others. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, 
Sani in the 12 Bhava: will be ungrateful, will have many enemies, be not bashful and will be in 
a position to guess others’ mind. Surya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Sukr, Sani in the 12° Bhava: will 
be quite sickly, be bereft of money and sons, be unkind, miser and will have a beautiful wife. 
Surya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will have short life, be devoid of fame 
and money, will make futile effort and be ill tempered. Strya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in 
the 12" Bhava: will always be indolent, will be devoid of wisdom and wealth and will have 
wicked wife and wicked sons. Surya, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12° Bhava: will 
have no place to resort, will derive mean pleasure, will suffer from penury, be untruthful and not 
virtuous. Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12" Bhava: will hate Brahmins, be bereft 
of fame and happiness, be not splendourous and will suffer from many diseases. Surya, Candr, 
Mangal, Budh, Guru, Sukr, Sani in the 12 Bhava: will indulge in inimical activities, will not be 
self-respected, will always suffer from penury and will be devoid of wealth and grain. 


