GARGA HORA 


BY SANTHANAM 
FOREWORD 


Human beings have always wanted to look ahead and to 
a large extent are capable of doing so. Of all the methods 
of prediction in vogue, astrology is perhaps the most ancient 
and the most sought for. Supremacy in the astrolagical field 
belongs to the ancient Indian sages and Acharyas who have 
bequeathed to us a vast literature, in the great Sanskrit langu- 
age, bearing on the methods of prediction. 

And one of the valuable treatises belonging to this ancient 
legacy is the GARGA HORA, an English translation of which 
by Mr. R. Santhanam is presented in these pages. 

GARGA HORA enumerates a number of significant 

combinations, some even novel. For instance there is a com- 
bination given that Sun in the 9thin Leo deprives one of 
surviving co-borns. This combination is applicable to those 
born in Sagittarius ascendant. When -the Sun is in the 9th, 
he aspects the 3rd ruling brothers and sisters. But there is 
also a hint that if one co-born exists he reaches a high position. 
Such important combinations appear to be a feature of this 
book, The effects. of six. planets, five planets, etc., in different 
Bhavas given in the book embody important principles. 
) Mr. Santhanam has already to his credit a number of 
translations of ancient astrological classics and this translation 
will be a welcome addition to the extant literature on Hindu 
astrology. 


I wish him all success. 
17.1.1983 B. V. Raman 


PREFACE 


Lord Ganesa has again blessed us with His benign looks 
which enabled! us to come to the reading public with this 
work of sage Garga. Sage Garga, one of the sons of Lord 
Brahma, compiled many works out of his intuition like 
Garga Samhita, Garga Hora etc. The great Varaha Mihira 
also quotes Garga frequently in his illustrious Brihat 
Samhita 


Many principles from the present work were widely 
quoted by Yavanas in their astrological literature. Bala 
Bhadra, author of Hora Ratna, has opted Garga [-lora’s 
principles from Yavana’s school and has widely commented 
in his work. Our present translation has relied on the 
slokas of Bala Bhadra which slokas also find exact Tamil 
rendering by C.G. Rajan. In translating these slokas of 
Garga into English through Bala Bhadra's work, 1 have 
maintained apt originality. Exact translation of the Sanskrit 
slokas into English has been provided in our present effort. 


The work details in the first instance important rules 
on predictive astrology, which were the first-hand invention 
of the sage, not found elsewhere to a great extent. The 
latter portion details effects of conjunctions of planets 
ranging from 2 to 7 in Lagna through the- 1 2th bhava. The 
reader, it is hoped, will appreciate our humble efforts in 
presenting this work for the first time in the English 
language. I.am ‘thankful to Dr. B.V. ‘Raman for his kind 
foreword. 


No error has ~been committed wilfully in this transla- 
tion. Yet if any lapses are noticed, we look forward to the 
readers for a lenient view. 


26.1.1983 R. SANTHANAM 


Ch. 


12. 


13. 


CONTENTS 


Details 
General. principles. 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the ascendant. 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 2nd bhava. 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 3rd bhava. 
Various planetary- conjunctions 
in the 4 th 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 5th bhava. 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 6th bhava. 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 7th bhava 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 8th bhava. 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 9th bhava. 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 10th bhava. 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 11th bhava 
Various planetary conjunctions 
in the 12th bhava. 


bhava. 


Page 


153 


166 


GARGA HORA 
OF SAGE GARGA. 


1 


General Principles 


1. Jupiter in his own house along with Saturn and 
Mercury will bestow long life. Such native often will beget 
wealth. 


Notes : Saturn along with Jupiter in Pisces or Sagittarius 
is conducive to long life and riches. This is more so for 
Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces Lagnas. 


2. Should Venus be in Pisces along with Jupiter and the 
Moon, the native will acquire kingly fortunes, and will have 
many’ sons and family. 


33 Should the ascendant be in a malefic Rasi while the 
lord thereof occupies the 7th house and Jupiter is posited in 
‘the 8th along with the Sun, the child will die at the age of 
eight. 

4. If Mercury and Mars be together in the ascendant 
‘or the 6th or the 8th, the native will either be a thief or will 
indulge in awful acts. Such a person will have defect in his 
hands and legs. 


5. Mercury in the ascendant or the 6th or the 8th can 
cause death at the age of 4. Even if the native is dipped in 
~ nectar, it will be of no avail. 


Note : This .is only a general rule and should be care- 
fully used. 


10 Garga Hora 


6. Mars and Jupiter in exchange in RaSi will ‘inflict death 
at the age of 12. Even though Lord Siva may desire to save 
the person, it is rare to escape death in such a case. 


Notes : Sage Garga does not prefer exchange of houses 
between Jupiter and Mars and confirms that death is imminent 
at the age of 12 inspite of divine protection. For example, this 
exchange is more effective in the case of a Taurus native, being 
between the lords of 8 and 12. The entire horoscope should be 
well-scanned but over enthusiasm will lead to pitfalls. 


7. Should Jupiter occupy a house of Mars identical with 
the 2nd, 6th or 8th from lagna, the child doubtlessly will face 
death in its sixth year. 


Notes : The Sage does not prefer Jupiter in the ond in 
Aries for Pisces, in 2nd in Scorpio, for Libra, in 6th in Aries for 
Scorpio, in 6th Scorpio for Gemini, in 8th in Scorpio for Aries 
and in 8th in Aries for Virgo. In such case, if other factors are 
not suspicious, the child may face its end in the 6th year. 


8. If Rahu occupies the ascendant at birth while the 
Moon is in the 6th/9th, the child will die within 20 days of 
birth. 


9. Similar effects will prevail (i. e. death in 20 days will 
occur) if Rahu is in the 4th from Lagna, while ine Moon 
occupies one of the angles. 


Notes : .Rahu and the (weak) Moon in 4th can cause the 
end of both the mother and the child, according to some. 
If, however, the Moon is in other angle than the 4th, the mother 
isin exception. 


10. Death will be inflicted by Rahu in the 7th from 
lagna while the Moon is in the ascendant. Even nectar will not 
be useful to him and the death will come to pass in the 10th 
year of the child. 


11. If the Moon is in the 12th from Lagna while malefics 
are in the 6th house, the native will be shortlived. He will 
suffer from stomatchial disorders, 


General Pr inciples 11 


Notes : If Rahu is in the 6th in the said instance, while 
the Moon. is in the 12th, the disorder may be in the form of 
cancerous growth. 


12. If Rahu occupies the 9th or the 10th, the native 
will die at 16, though Indra, Lord of Lords, may try to pro- 
tect him. 


Notes : Rahu in the 9th/10th is supposed to cause 
Rajayoga. According to the Sage, it is, however, adverse for 
longevity. In Rahu dasa, there may be still adverse repercus- 
sions. 


13. Death will come to pass at the age of 20, if Saturn 
and the Sun are in exchange in Rasi. 


Notes : The Sun in Aquarius or Capricorn while Saturn is 
in Leo causes a short life. 


14. If Rahu is in the ascendant while the Moon.is in. the 
6th (or both of them being together in the 6th) will promote 
diseases in the rectum, indigestion (due to lack of digestive fire) 
and deficiency of a limb. 


Notes : Rahu's association with the Moon can cause 
lameness, as seen in a couple of births. 


15. Death will be caused due to leprosy or tuberculosis 
if the Sun is in the 8th while Saturn is in the 6th. 


16. If the Sun is in the ascendant at birth, the native will 
be ‘subjected to mental worries and will have no place of his 
own. 


18. The child will die instantly if Rahu is in the ascendant 


or in the 8th and is in aspect to the Moon; even Indra cannot 
save such child. 


19. The native will have a life span of 100 years if two 
angles are occupied by Jupiter and Venus while the Sun is in 
the 12th and Mercury is in Lagna. 


20. There will be no Arishtas 1.e. evils if Jupiter is in an 
angle or ina trine, or in own house/exaltation house as the 
Lagna. This will be so throughout the life. 


12 Garga Hora 


21. There will be no evils whatsoever if one of Jupiter, 
Venus and Mercury is in an angle and with positional strength. 


Notes: This rule is suggestive of the fact that a single 
benefit: with Sthana Bala in angle is enough to counteract all 
evils. 


22. There is no evill whatsoever if Saturn happens to be 
in the ascendant, 3rd or the 6th and be at the same time in 
Libra, Aquarius or Capricorn. 


23. If the 2nd from. the ascendant is tenanted by Rahu, 
Mercury, Venus; Saturn and the Sun together, the mother will 
die soon. Alternatively it can be the father of the child. 


Notes : Depending upon of the Karaka planet, the father 
or the mother may find his or her exit from this world. 


24. If the Sun is in Leo or in Aries identical with the 6th 
or the 11th and is aspected by a friendly planet, the evils if any 
are simply counteracted. 


25. Should Rahu be in the ascendant identical with Aries, 
Taurus or Cancer and be in aspect to a benefic planet, no evil 
exists in the horoscope. 


26. Rajayoga is caused if Saturn and the Moon are in the 
Lagna while its trines are occupied by the Sun and Jupiter. 
Mars should simultaneously in the 10th house. 


Notes : According to Chamatkara Chintamani, Mars 
alone in the 10th with cause good Rajyoga. 


27. Should the Sun be in the 9th in Leo, the native will 
not have surviving co-born. If, however, one exists, he becomes 
a king. 

Notes : This applies to only Sagittarius. The Sun aspects 
the 3rd in the said case, which house is highly inimical to him. 


And he is supposed to be adverse for co-born. Ifa brother 
lives long due to other planetary factors, he enjoys Rajayoga. 


28. If Rahu is in Karma Sthana i.e. the 10th house, iden- 
tical with own house and in the company of Mars, Mercury and 


General Principles 13 


Venus, the native will sometimes prosper and yet sometimes 
will have downfall. 


Notes : Rahu's own house has not been widely discussed 
in many texts. For relevant information, see my English trans- 
lation of Horasara. 


29. Declare that the subject is born ina mean descent if 
malefics are in the 2nd, Rahu is in the 3rd and Jupiter is in th 
5th. ; 


30. If the Sun etc. (i.e. other malefics) are in the 4th, 5th 
and 9th, the native will lose his first issue while the later ones 
may survive. 


Notes: Malefics in the said louses are adverse for the 
first issue of the native. 


31. Should malefics be in the 2nd along with Mars and 
Saturn while Rahu is in the 3rd, the co-born will not survive. 


Notes : This rule does not apply to the pre-born. The 3rd 
house will involve only younger brothers/sisters. 


32. Chatra yoga is formed if all planets are in the ascen- 
dant, 2nd, 7th and 12th. One with this yoga will become a 
leader of his race. 


33. If the ascendant is occupied by Venus, 12th by 
Mercury and the 2nd by a malefic, a .Rajayoga is formed, and 
the native becomes a king. If the Sun is in the 12th, the subject 
will be subjected to penury. 

34. The relatives of the native will perish if the 12th and 
the 7th are occupied by malefics while the 2nd by benefics. 


Notes : If the 2nd has no benefic, apparently the rest of 
the yoga may spare the relatives. 


35. There is a Rajayoga, if the Moon and Saturn are in 
the 2nd while Jupiter occupies Aries, and Rahu with Venus is 
in the 10th. 


14 Garga Hora 


36. Should malefics be in the 2nd, 8th and 12th, the 
native will lose his eyes in his 8th or 12th year of age. 


37. The co-born will not survive if Mars is in the 8th 
house. Similar effect prevails if he joins Rahu and Saturn in 
the 7th house. 


38. Births in the end of a Tithi (lunar day), a week day, 
a Lagna, or in the night (2?) will belong to some other (low 7) 
caste. 


Notes ; This rule apparcntly rules out births in castes of 
high order prevalent those days. We do not know why high 
births are generalized as such. 


39. The results concerning Karma Sthana (i.e. the 10th 
house) will be meagrely felt if Mars aspects the 10th house 
occupying Aries or Scorpio while Mercury is associated with 
malefics. 


Notes : In this case, the 10th house can be one of Taurus, 
Gemini, Cancer, Libra, Scorpio or Aquarius in which case 
birth should be in Leo, Virgo, Libra, Capricorn, Aquarius or 
Taurus in the same order. Thus for Lagnas in Leo, Virgo, 
Libra, Capricorn, Aquarius or Taurus, Mars in Scorpio/Aries 
cannot give good 10th house results if Mercury is with 
malefics. The involvement of Mercury in the Sage’s rule should 
be carefully noted. Otherwise’ Mars is beneficial for Leo and 
Capricorn fully, and for Aquarius partly. 


40. The native will head many people if Jupiter is in Leo, 
while Venus is in Virgo, Saturn is in Gemini and Mars is in the 
4th identical with own house. 


Notes : This principle applies exclusively to Leo and 
Capricorn only in which case Mars can be in 4th in Scorpio or 
in 4th in Aries. Thus, Venus in fall in the 2nd for Leo, and in 
fall in the 9th for Capricorn is made beneficial, in this yoga. 


41-42. Should Saturn be in Virgo along with the Moon 
while Mars is in the sign Capricorn, Rahu in Aquarius and, 


General Principles 15 


Jupiter in Leo, the native will destroy the band of his enemies. 
One born with such planetary array will not be an ordinary 
man. He will advance his family to a good state and enjoys 
Rajayoga. 


43. The native will indulge in notorious acts at the age of 
20 (i.e. from his 20th year) if Venus is in Sagittarius, the Sun in 
Aquarius and Mars in Pisces simultaneously. 


44. Should a malefic be in the 11th house, while the Sth 
is occupied by Venus and the Moon, the native's first issue will 
be a female and such female's mothers will be subjected to 
many troubles. 


Notes : This combination in a‘male's horoscope will 
cause the birth of a female child and his wife will be put to 
troubles. If present in a lady's horoscope, the native herself 
will beget the results and obtain a female child first. 


Venus and the Moon posited in the Sth will receive the 
powerful aspect of the malefic in the 11th house; and hence the 
first issue is a source of menace to the mother. 


45. There will be destruction of relatives if the 4th is 
occupied by Rahu, the 2nd ‘by Jupiter and the 6th/9th by 
Mercury. 


46. Should the 9th be occupied by Jupiter, Mercury, 
Venus, and the Moon, the subject acquires success in all his 
undertakings and will he honoured by a king 


47. If both malefics and benefics occupy severally the 6th 
Sth, Sth, 9th and the ‘12th. the native will be honoured by the 
king. But he will face many hardships in life. 


48. If the 5th, 6th, 8th and 9th are occupied by respecti- 
vely Mars, Rahu,. Venus and the Sun, the native will protect 
his own people. 

49. If the ascendant is occupied by Saturn and the Moon 
while Venus is posited in the 8th, the subject will be highly 


16 Garga Hora 


libidinous. Though he will be honoured by a king, he cannot 
enjoy any kind of happiness. 


50. Ifthe Moon is in Capricorn at birth along with 
debilitated Jupiter or with an inimical planet and aspected by 
Saturn, the native will be a source of evil to his own co-born. 


Notes : The Moon should be in Capricorn with Jupiter 
and another planet to which the sign is inimical, for example, 
the Sun. Saturn aspecting such yoga is adverse to the co-born 
of the native. 


51. Should Rahu be in Gemini while Mars is in Leo and 
Jupiter in Scorpio, the native will be equal to a king. 


Notes : If the ascendant falls in Leo or Scorpio, ‘in this 
case, it will be more advantageous Note the aspect of Mars 
on Jupiter. 


52. If at birth Saturn occupies Aquarius, Mars Capricorn, 
and the Moon Aries while the 2nd house is occupied by the 
. Sun, the subject will enjoy paternal wealth or his own wealth. 


Notes: The 2nd house should be occupied by the Sun 
which indicates paternal money—the Sun, Karaka for father, 
in the house of money. Mars should be exalted; Saturn should 
be in Aquarius in own house while the Moon is in Aries—all 
these in any bhavas. The Moon is thus aspected by Mars and 
Saturn simultaneously. 


53. If Mercury and the Sun occupy the 10th while Rahu 
is in the 6th, the native will lord over many. 


54. If the Sun is in the 10th in Leo, or Saturn in Libra 
identical with the 6th or the Moon and Mercury in the 9th in 
Gemini, a Rajayoga is formed. 


Notes : The: Sun in Leo in the ‘10th for Scorpio is pro- 
ductive of political power, high office etc. Saturn exalted in the 
6th house for Taurus is indicative of freedom from diseases, 
enemies etc. and a good job to live. It further denotes paternal 
inheritance and a long-living father. It promotes longevity of 


General Principles 17 


the native and bestows an elevated state of the co-born. Should 
Libra rise at birth while Mercury and the Moon are in the 9th 
house, Dharma-Karmadhipathi Yoga is produced as the lords 
ofthe 9th and the 10th join in one house. This is capable of 
giving a high official position to the native. Such a person 
can reach the pinnacles in business career also. 


SS. Jupiter in Lagna while Venus is in the 12th holding 
the other planets in between indicates a Rajayoga.. This is to 
the advantage of the native's family to become strong (in all 


respects). 


Notes : Jupiter should be in the ascendant and Venus 
should be in the 12th. The other planets, i.e. Sun,Moon, Mars, 
Mercury and Saturn should be within the orbs of Venus and 
Jupiter, posited anywhere, in 12th/Lagna. Longitudinally, these 
five-should be:ahead of Venus in:the 12th and before the planet 
Jupiter. Then only this yoga will come to pass. For example, 
see the chart below. The shortest orb between the two planets in 
question should hold others in between them. 


Moon 70°; Sat 5° 
Sun 14° | Merce 4° 
Mars 25° | Jup 12° 
Ven 3° Lagna 10° 


C—O 


In the above example, ‘note the selection of planetary 


18 Garga Hora 


logitudes which will depict the correct formation of the Yoga 
cited in the principle under study. 


26. The native doubtlessly becomes a king if: Jupiter. is in 
the 8th and Venus is in the 3rd. All others should be between 
them. 


57-58. One born in Libra Lagna with exalted Saturn, 
while Jupiter is in Taurus, the Moon in Gemini, Mars in Capris 
corn, Venus in Leo and Mercury in Virgo along with the Sun, 
will have a Raja Yoga, the results of which are : he will main- 
tain justice, good deeds and auspiciousness ‘in his life. 


Notes : This is a very rare Raja Yoga and is put in a map 
thus, for easy grasp : 


The Sage has fixed the positions ofall the seven planets 
and the three-Mercury, Venus.and the Sun—are longitudinally-. 
in a feasible guess. Such a native’s birth isin a very affluent 
family, as Saturn is in exaltation in Lagna. Mars in the 4th in 
exaltation will confer superior education, longliving mother, 
abundant conveyances, landed property etc. Mercury is exalted 
in 12th in aspect to Jupiter, which is again a splendid Raja 
Yoga, denoting that the native will be obeyed even by higher- 
ups and will move in an aristocratic society. 


59. The Yoga mentioned above will, however, cause 


General Principles 19 


Balarishta in the 8th or the 12th year. The native will, however, 
later on prove inauspicious for the elder brother or sister. 


Notes : The positions denoted in principles No. 57 and 
58 are capable of causing Balarishta, obviously because the 8th 
is occupied by Jupiter. He will, however, ensure good longevity 
after passing the Balarishta period of 12. In some cases, Jupiter 
in 8th has not given long life, while Saturn has given. (Saturn 
of course ‘stands well for longevity). The planet Mars. in 4th 
in peak may adversely tell upon the pre-born as he lends bis 
powerful aspect to the 1 1th house. 


60. If Libra happens to be the 2nd house or an angle and 
is occupied by a malefic. the native only faces sheer poverty. 
He will not prove a good augury for his own people. 


Notes : This applies to Virgo, Libra, Capricorn, Aries 
and Cancer, if one of these rises at birth. Any malefic in Libra 
for such Lagnas will produce the said effects while Saturn will 
not. On the other hand, he will be helpful to the native as he 
will be exalted. 


61. Should the Moon be in the 10th, while Venus is in 
the 7th and malefics in the 4th, the native’s dynasty ends with 
him and there will be no further descent in his race. 


Notes : This yoga apparently indicates that the native 
will not beget an issue and the race will end with him. 


62. The mother of the native will not survive if Saturn 
is in the 2nd, Rahu in the 3rd and Jupiter is in Pisces. 


Notes : The position of Jupiter is fixed as Pisces, without 
reference to Lagna. In such a case, Saturn in the 2nd and Rahu 
in the 3rd will be adverse for the mother of the subject. This 
is, however, inapplicable to Sagittarius birth. Jupiter in the 4th 
then protects the mother while Saturn, though aspecting Jupiter 
in the 4th, will be pacified as he will be in Capricorn in his 
own house. 


63. Should Mars be in the 7th while Venus is in the 
8th followed by the Sun in the 9th, the native will be short- 
lived. 


20 Garga Hora 


Notes : This principle is highly suggestive. The sage does 
not ignore the longitudinal restriction between. the Sun and 
Venus (and also Mercury). 


64-65. If Jupiter is in the ascendant, while the Yoga 
mentioned above (i.e. in principle 63) is absent, an auspicious 
yoga is caused. Such a_ native will live a long lease of life, will 
have many co-borns, will head many people (i.e. employ many 
and feed them), will be happy, will lead himself and _ his 
co-born toa prosperous level, be free from proud conduct, 
and be pleased in all aspects of life. 


Notes: Jupiter in the ascendant is capable of bestowing 
goods in abundance as per the present principle, provided the 
7th, 8th, and the 9th are not respectively occupied by Mars, 
Venus and the Sun. For, the native will be shortlived with these 
3 planets posited in these respective houses. 


66. If Saturn is in Cancer while Rahu is in Taurus, the 
native will be very liberal, will enjoy numerous yogas, i.e. will 
reach a very high state in life, will be famous, will be chief in 
his race and will marry many women. If, however, the said 
Saturn is lonely and aspects the Sth, there is only one marriage. 


Notes: Saturn in Cancer while Rahu is in Taurus will 
produce the results as ‘per the first part of the principle. If 
however, he~is alone 'in Cancer, i.e. the other part of the yoga 
being not there (Rahu not being in Taurus) the native has one 
marriage while the Sth house receives Saturn's aspect from 
Cancer. Here, a pertinent query may be asked as to why the 
Sth house and Saturn come in the picture, while marriage is 
being considered. The answer is simple to deep insight. Saturn 
in the 3rd .or the 8th will give only one marriage—a much 
delayed marriage. This position in Cancer applies to Taurus 
when he can aspect the Sth by 3rd aspect, and to Sagittarius 
when he will be in the 8th aspecting the Sth by 10th aspect. 
Then, the other ascendant is Virgo for which Saturn can lend 
his 7th aspect on the 5th remaining in the 11th house. So to 
say, those born in Taurus/Virgo/Sagittarius, with Saturn in 
‘Cancer will marry once, but late. 


General Principles 21 


67. The native will meet with. his end if Jupiter and 
Rahu are together in the ascendant or the 4th. The end will 
be in the 13 th year even if Lord Siva may try to save him. (That 
is, death in 13th year is certain) 


Notes : Jupiter's association with Rahu in Lagna or the 
4th is adverse for longevity. Such a person will not live long. 


68. If Mars occupies the 8th while the Sun is in fall in 
the 5th or the 9th and Jupiter in accelerated motion in the 9th 
the native is blessed by Lakshmi, the Goddess of Wealth. 


Notes : To make up deficit in elongation with reference 
to the Sun, a planet (except Moon) moves faster which si 
called Atichara or accelerated motion. 


69-70. Should Venus be in Pisces along with Mercury 
while the ascendant, 2nd and 3rd are respectively tenanted by 
the Sun, Moon and Mars, a Raja Yoga is constituted. One born 
under this kind of planetary array will respect Gods and 
preceptors. He will achieve such fame in his own native 
country and abroad as well that cannot be achieved by others. 


71. If the 12th is occupied by Jupiter while the 2nd 
house has Saturn, Sun, Mars and Mercury, the father of the 
native will pass away at the time of marriage of the native. 


72. If Jupiter is in the 3rd while the planet Venus is in 
the 11th, the native will be famous among his relatives and will 
shine like a lamp among the men of his race. 


73. If Venus in the ascendant is unaspected by anyone, 
while the Moon is in the 2nd and Jupiter is in the 3rd, the 
native cannot enjoy any paternal earnings. 


Notes : Venus in such state ‘if aspected by some planet, 
the native may possibly enjoy such benefits. 


74. Should Mars and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is 
in Virgo and Rahu is in Gemini, the child will lose its mother 
(early). 


Notes : The combination of Mars and Saturn, unless in 


22 Garga Hora 


the 11th is not quite auspicious. Should the Moon be strong 
in the said Yoga, the child wil! have its mother long living. 


75. The above mentioned Yoga (as in 74) will cause 
poverty in childhood. If the Moon joins Mars, it will confer 
happiness in the later part. 


Notes : The principle as per rule 74 above is adverse for 
mother and will cause poverty in the initial stage. If, however, 
the Moon is in Leo along with Mars, in addition to the planets 
stated in the respective positions, the child will lose its mother, 
suffer poverty in the beginning, but be happy in the later part 
of life. 


76. If Lagna happens to be a malefic sign and is occupied 
by the said malefic Lagna Lord himself, while one among the 
4th, 7th and the 10th being a malefic sign is occupied by its 
own malefic lord, the child will live only upto six. 


Notes : There are two malefic planets and two malefic 
houses involved in this rule. Firstly, the Lagna should be 
occupied by Lagna Lord, who happens to be a natural malefic. 
Secondly, either the 4th, or the 7th or the 10th should be a Rasi 
owned by a malefic planet and occupied by its ruler. Then the 
longevity is only six. 


77. A child born in the said Yoga (vide rule 76 above) 
will prove inauspicious to its mother. Additionally, there will 
be destruction of maternal relatives, if the 6th house is unas- 
pected by Jupiter. 


Notes : One with the combination as per rule 76 above 
will firstly live upto six only and secondly will prove dangerous 
to the mother. The third effect is adversity to maternal uncle, 
if the 6th house is not aspected by Jupiter. If, however, Jupiter 
aspects the 6th, then there is relief to maternal relatives while 
the child and mother are still affected. 


78. The child who has the Sun in Leo, a malefic in 
Virgo and Rahu in a malefic’s house will only live for six 
years. 


General Principles 23 


79. The longevity is only for 19 years if the Moon is in 
the 8th, ‘malefics in angles and Rahu in the ‘10th at birth. 

80. Ifa benefic planet is exalted in an angle, the native 
will acquire a large kingdom and will protect his family. 


81. Death of father is imminent ifa child is born with 
Rahu in the ascendant and the Sun in the 7th while Mars is 
between Lagna and the 7th. 


Notes : In the combination, Rahu afflicts the Sun, who is 
pitrukaraka. 


82. A child who has malefics posited, in the 7th, 12th, 
- 3rd and 8th will always have an ailing physique. 

83. Should malefics be in the Lagna, 12th and 8th simul- 
taneously, the child will be deprived of its mother instantly 


while its father will leave this world in its 4th or 10th year 
of age. 


a@ 


2 


Lagna Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN CONJUNCTION 
INASCENDANT 


(From Rale 1 to 20) 


1. Sun-Moon : The native will have many sons. He will 
not be happy in regard to parents. He will be subjected to 
mental worries. 


2. Sun-Mars : He will be unhappy about his father. He 
will be wicked. He will always wander from place to place. He 
will be meanly disposed. 


Notes: This combination in lagna will also promote 
diseases arising out of defects in blood, digestive fire and 
phlegm. The native will have digestive problems, stomachlal 
disorders, blood pressure (high if Mars is strong and low ifhe 
is devoid of strength) and phlegmatic illnesses. 


3. Sun-Mercury : ‘will not have conveyances, will be 
wickedly disposed, will have ill-reputed history, will commit 
sinful acts, will be foresaken by friends and relatives. 


4. Sun-Jupiter : will have little intelligence, will look ugly, 
will be a dunce, will be ungrateful, be thievishly disposed 
and jealous. 


5. Sun-Venus: will hate scholars, will not have many 
children, will be cruel, angrily disposed, will trouble others, be 
fierce and dejected. 


_Lagna Bhava 25- 


6. Sun-Saturn : will be a simpleton, be sick, be given up. 
by his relatives, and will’ not possess good qualities, 


7. Moon-Mars : wicked, poor, talkative and not virtuous. 


8. Moon-Mercury : will have good speech, will be rich, | 
beautiful, passionate, modcst and will be addicted to other: 
women. 


9. Moon-Jupiter: will be good looking, longlived, very 
famous, will have attractive eyes and hair on_ the head. 


10. Moon-Venus : will be interested in good affairs, will 
have very beautiful face, will be affluent, be interested in being 
virtuous, and dear to king. 


11. Moon-Saturn : willearn money in bad ways, will 
know only bad things, be mean-minded, be attached to others: 
money, be won by unsocial clements. 


12. Mars-Mercury : can easily dupe others, will be an 
able speaker, interested in living in foreign countries and will. 
have bad notions. 


13. Mare-Jujisr: will be hard-hearted, will have few 
sons, will entertain others, and will be interested in doing bad 
acts. ' 

14. Mars-Venus : ‘will have phlegmatic imbalances, 
will undertake futile jobs, will cheat others, will be ungrateful, 
will have a valorous son and will not achieve success in any of 
his undertaking. 


15. Mars-Saturn: will be interested in committing § sinful 
acts, will defy others, be interested in speaking harshly, and be 
fiercely disposed. 


16. Mercury-Jupiter: will be beautiful in appearance, be 
fortunate, splendorous, rich and pleasing. 


17. Mercury-Venus : will be connected with royal duties, 
will be worth praising by kings, will be interested in various 
Sastras, be rich and truthfully disposed. 


18. Mercury-Saturn : will be expert in carrying out the 


26 Garga Hora: 


orders of the king, will possess a bad wife, be indigent and 
will face obstructions from the public. 


Notes : This position in Lagna is not congenial for those 
who deal with the public. Neither the native will have an 
amiable wife nor will he beget an issue. 


18a. Jupiter-Venus : willbe dear to king, be inclined’. 
to earn more wealth, will have more knowledge in policies, 
be very rich and be an exponent of Sastras to a great pro- 
portion. | 

19. Jupiter-Saturn : will be very wealthy, highly educated, . 
be not cunning, will face many risks, and be untruthful. 


20. Venus-Saturn : will be foolish, ungrateful, and aways 
attached to his men. 

Notes : This is not a good position at all for happy 
Marriage, unless the Lagna is Libra, Pisces, Taurus, Capricorn 
or- Aquarius. Particularly this is more adverse for Leo, Virgo. 
and Aries, 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN LAGNA 
(From Rule 21 to 54) : 
21. Sun-Moon-Mars : will be liked by his elders, be 


defective limbed, be a liar and be cruel, blameworthy and. 
foolish, 


Notes : Mars in the ascendant will generally cause some 
defect in the limb after birth. 


22. Sun-Moon-Mercury : He will be foolish. 


Notes : Lunation along with Mercury will make one a 
a thief and short lived. He will be subject to heart/mental 
diseases and nervous breakdown. 


23. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will have all auspiciousness, be 
inclined to be virtuous, be intelligent, rich, very powerful on 
others, and be always happy. 


Notes : Balabhadra states that the native will be very 


Lagna Bhava 27 


famous, highly placed, be chief among men and will hold very 
high position. He will be acceptable to all policies. 


Such natives, I feel, are capable of reaching high political 
status and will move upwards unobstructedly. This is a good 
position for Aries, Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius and Pisces 
for which Lagnas, these three are all-auspicious. The Moon is 
little inauspicious, however, for Dhanus. 


24. Sun-Moon-Venus : will have auspicious events, be 
famous, prestigious, wealthy, chief among men and be justly 
disposed. 


Notes : In Hora Ratna’s text, ‘qwidigaay" appears, 
meaning that the native will have wealth earned through auspi- 
cious means. 


This position bestows an early marriage and an amiable 
wife. 


25. Sun-Moon-Saturn .: will have a fearful body (i.e. be 
fierce in appearance), be short-lived, sick, sinful, capable of 
promoting quarrels, and will be forsaken by relatives. 


Notes : The combination of Sun —Saturn in Lagna is not 
congenial for longevity, while the position is somewhat better 
for Sagittarius and Pisces. This is very adverse for Aries where 
S®turn will be in fall and for Libra where the Sun will be in 
fall. The Moon getting afflicted makes the situtation all the 
more worse for the said Lagnas and in a high proportion for 
Scorpio, where the ‘Moon herself is debilitated. 


26. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will be very industrious, will 
always be troubled, be inimically disposed to others, be ungrate- 
ful and subjected to phlegmatic and windy diseases. 


Notes : This Yoga in Lagna is capable of causing diges- 
tive deficiency, rheumatic pains etc. 


27. Suin-Mars-Jupiter : will always be proud, be highly 
egoistic, will possess a fleet of horses and will be keen in impart- 
ing vices to others. 


28 Garga Hora 


Notes : Jupiter in the company of the Sun and Mars is 
capable of converting the native into a_ horse-race addict. 
This position is highly suggestive of lever disorders. If Rahu 
joins these in Lagna, it may be even lever cancer. 


28. Sun-Mars-Venus: will be chief, justly disposed, will 
have good qualities, and be dear to his relatives. 


Notes : Hora Ratna adds that the native will win over 
his enemies. 


Venus, Mars and the Sun in Lagna will make one addi- 
cted to whores. The subject will suffer from venereal diseases 
like Syphilis. He will not have a_ virtuous or long-living 
wife. 


29. Sun-Mars-Saturn : will acquire a wife to promote 
monetary state, be short-lived, be subjected to many diseases, 
untruthful and foolish. 


30. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : will be skilful, will advance 
through his undertakings, will befriend many and be an expert 
in war. 


31. Sun-Mercury-Venus : will be modest, valorous, chief 
among Brahmins, and be happy. 


32. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will be exposed to penury and 
diseases, will not have good qualities, be unjust and be forsaken 
by his own men and others as well 


33. Sun-Jupiter-Venus . : will be leader of men, be fond 
of acquiring many children, and will. be free from enemies and 
such other troubles. 


34. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn : will have more enemies, will 
have to spend on bad missions, will like to commit sins, be 
defective in some limb and be weak. 


35. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will undertake mean professions 
to earn money, will suffer poverty, will have vices, be fond of 
wandering and will earn his food by performing Homas etc. 


36. Moon-Mars-Mercury : will own a fine house to live in, ' 


Lagna Bhava 19 


be very wealthy, justly disposed, be free from enemies and will 
earn knowledge in Sastras. 


37. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be happy, very prestigious, 
be attached to his work, be virtuous, will have may friends and 


will be a great person. 


38. Moon-Mars-Venus : willbe subjected to much grief, 
will have vices, will have highly placed relatives, be very intelli- 
gent and be bright in appearance. 


39. Moon-Mars-Saturn : will be ever modest, be fond of 
guests, be interested in donation—giving, be very wise and will 
stand to gain a lot. 


40. Moon-Mercury-Venus: will bea king, will possess 
attractive physique, be very valorous and be always happy. 


Notes : Hora Ratna in this context states that the native 
will be king of kings, will have attractive body, be valorous, 
truthful, be very efficacious and be always happy. 


41. Moon-Mercury- Venus : will be very efficaci ous, atta- 
ched to the virtuous, will have no knowledge of arts (practical 
or fine, which are 74 in number, such as music, dance etc ), and 
will be versed in justice. 


Notes : Hora Ratna in addition to the above states that 
the subject will have superior blood (fafase <#q7), meaning that 
the blood with be free from defects. 


42. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will marry a highly placed 
lady, will have rich food to eat, be very happy and will donate 
liberally. 


43. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will not be so efficacious (here 
Hora Ratna states that the native will have appealing physique), 
be firm, will be eloquent, inimically disposed to the public, will 
have knowledge of poison (i.e. will deal with poison), and will 
have interest in bad deeds. 


44. Moon-Venus-Saturn: will have sons and money, 


30 Garga Hora 


will maintain fasting and other religious observations, will have 
many plans in mind about things to be done, be bright and will 
have good mind. 


45. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will always be modest, will 
gain in several ways from foreign countries, be famous, and be 
favourably disposed towards his dependants, 


46. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will have broad eyes and 
face, will have properly combed hair, be sweet in speech, truth- 
ful in disposition, and will be easy to be approached. 


Notes : Hora Ratna does not state in this context that the 
native will be easy for approach while CaEqa” is found in the 


sloka, meaning "has good pace*’. This indicates that he will 
walk beautifully. 


47. Mars-Mercury-Saturn +: will be unjust, regardless 
of law, will have bad wife, have few sons, and will kill animals 


"48. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be good-natured, will be 
endowed with virtues, wealth and children and will be respect- 
ful towards Brahmins and Gods. 


49. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be phlegmatic, wicked, 
be won by his wife, be troubled by hunger, and be a tale- 
bearer. 


50. Mars-Venus-Saturn: will have a surprising body(?), 
be fierce, will not have any code of conduct, be inimical to his 
own men, and be confused. 


51. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will consider money as most 
important, be beautiful, attached to women, friendly, and 
very valorous. 


52. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be subjected to phleg- 
matic diseases, fond of meat etc., will have hard teeth and 
coarse hair, be hard-hearted and will create terror among the 
people. 


53. Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will have swarthy body, be 
windy in temperament, be libidinous, torturous and very argu- 
mentative. 


Lagna Bhava 3] 


_ 54. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will stick to religious obser- 
‘vations, with delight in the contemplation of Supreme Spirit, 
will advocate final Emancipation effectively, and be devoid of 
fear of tens of millions in kind. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN LAGNA 
(From Rule 55 to 83) 


55. Sun-Moon-Mercury : ~will be very sickly, will not 
be good-natured, will be interested in ‘sinful acts, be ungrateful 
and will suffer from physical ailments. 

Notes : According to Hora Ratna, the native's disposition 
will be surprisingly sinful. 

- 56. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be interested in bad 
acts, sick, sinful, thankless, devoid of learning, ugly and fearful. 

Notes :.Hora Ratna indicates that the native will not 
have any principles of action, see fa%#gaqq, as against 
C.G. Rajan’s translation of "interested in bad acts.” Bala 
Bhadra’s view is perfect. 

57. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus : will wander purposelessly, will 
cheat others, be interested in blaming and be timid. 

_ 38. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will be interested in being 
just and be virtuous, will be ugly, forsaken by servants, and. will 
cheat others. 

59. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be very timid, be a 
cheat, be attached to relatives, and hardhearted. 


60. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus : wilLlike bad odour, be 
indigent, foolish, will not have friends, and will be defeated by 
enemies. 

Notes : Bala Bhadra adds that such native will be very 
ill-tempered. 

61. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be foolish, night- 
blind, will be interested in residing in bad places and be very 
poor. 


33 Garga Hora 


Notes : Hora Ratna states, that the subject will serve a 
bad country, see #@aarq«a. It may be that the native will 
help an inimical country against his own native state. 

62. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be untruthful, will 
have few sons, will speak harshly, will be won over by enemies, 
and will be subjected to grief. 

63. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be dull-witted, have 
control over his senses, be skilful in taking things from others, 
and be honoured for his deeds. 

64. Sun-Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be auspicious, bo 
dejected with people. will be very fair in complexion, will not 
have much money, will be hard in disposition. 

65. Sunt-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be very valorous, 
will have voice resembling that of a crow, be unkind, will have 
less money, and will have physical deficiencies out of sickness 
etc. 


66. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will have interest in 
sexual affairs, be expert in gambling, be unkind, more phleg- 
matic in temperament, and be not bright in appearance. 


67. Sun-Mars-Jupiter- Venus: will be troubled by sick- 
ness, will have vices, be very miserable and unkind. 

68. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn :° will have fearful eyes, 
will spend in bad ways, will wear rags, and will be dejected 
with his wife, but attached to his son. 

69. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn: will not be efficacious, be 
always insulted, and be fickle-minded. 

70. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Jupiter +: will have ugly eyes, be 
unkind and disturbed. 


71. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be given to anger, 
will have wicked wife, will always be a servant: and be forsaken 
by his relatives. He will be inimical to all. 


72. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will promote quarrels, 
be wicked, be immodest, .and will always move with sinful 
persons. 


73. Sun-Jupiter-Mercury-Saturn :; will do irreligious 


Lagna Bhava 33 


things in times of danger, will serve mean people, be ill-natured, 
Shameless and will face troubles from the king. 


74. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will possess a very 
dark and long body, will be interested in fighting, will suffer 
from bloody disorders, and will poorly dress himself. 


75. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will not have sons and 
wealth, will have ugly ears, teeth and eyes, be a varacious eater, 
be ascetic and wicked. 


76. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Sat urn: : will have uneven legs, 
ugly hair and ugly teeth. 


Notes : According to Hora Ratna, the native will have 
fearful eyes, ugly legs, hair and teeth, will suffer from head- 
diseases and be devoid of mother. Bala Bhadra seems to have 
adopted the sloka meanigfully in his work. 


77. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will have an ugly physi- 
que, ugly nails, and ugly sides, will indulge in acceptable deeds, 
and will be a tale-bearer. 


78. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be very famous, be 
helpful to others, be free from enemies, be attached to his sons 
and affectionate to his preceptors. 


79. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Jupiter : will be endowed with 
sons and a fleet of horse, be interested in Sastras, will destroy 
sinners, be quite famous and be pure-hearted. 


80. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn :; will be foolish, be 
phlegmatic and windy, dear to preceptors and be not proud. 


81. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will have horrible 
‘notions. be long-bodied, will wear twisted hair as an ascetic, 
(afew also means impervious), be not virtuous, subject to 
skin afflictions, and will suffer from itches. 


82. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be bald- headed, 
fearless, learned, black in complexion, and be in auspicious. 


83. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be very efficacious 
will have good (i.e. beautiful or strong) nails, be tall, patient, 
will have beautiful hands and be fair complexioned. 


34 Garga Hora 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN LAGNA 
(From Rule 84 to 103) 


84. Suit-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter: will be very wealthy, 
be interested in Sastras, be dear to elders, and be attached ~ 
his sons. 

85. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus — : will be important 
‘by virtue of his good qualities, be good looking, be devoted to 
help the public and liberal in giving donations. 

86. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will beat (or kill) 
firmly, be unkind, will be strong-bodied, and be bereft of 
wisdom. 

87. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus  : will be firm in disposi- 
tion, very efficacious, cruel, be a poet, be famous and dejected: 


88. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will -have wounded 
‘body, will eat varaciously, be unjustly disposed, be very i aaa 
dorous and be highly given to sexual feelings. 


89. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn — : will have interest in 
others wealth, will have long penis, will be full of veins, we 
‘have foul smell in the body, and be cruel. 5, 


90. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Jupiter : will be endowed - 
with sons, learning, wealth and relatives, and will have attrac- 
‘tive eyes, ears, teeth, and nose. at 


91. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn: will have sickly 
body, will be bilious and phlegmatic in temperament and will 
always move in forests. : 

92. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will have own 
business, will have income through arts, be liberal in giving 
away gifts, and will be endowed with all pleasures. 


93. Sun- Mercury-Jupiter- Venus _: will consider justice as 
the most supreme aim, will have virtues, be truthful, be dear " 
the virtuous, and will have pleasing looks. 


94. Sun- Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be free from 
grief and fear, be inactive or foolish due to some sin or Pd 
and will be highly pious. 


Lagna Bhava 35 


95. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be subjected, 
troubles by abundantly, labouring, will be extremely emaciated, 
skilful: in spending, expert in guess, be devoid of wealh, be 
phicgmatic, expert in promoting quarrels and will cheat. 


96. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be worshipped 
by Lord Indra, (i.e. so superior a person), will eat and drink 
abundantly, will be interested in possessing conveyances, will 
possess attractive eyes, and be unkind. 


97. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Jupiter-Saturn : will consider 
piousness as supreme, be a good singer, be very strong, very 
happy and truthful. 


Notes : Balabhadra does not mention about the pious 


nature of the native but adds that the native will be very 
wise. 


98. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be interested 
in comforts will always be pure and clean, will be interested 


in listening to auspicious stories, will have a beautiful body 
and be the leader of men. 


99. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will. have good 
knees and feet, will follow elders in respect of fame, wealth and 
happiness, be interested in performing sacrifices, worship etc. 


100. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will have more 
gains, will be subjected to fear, will contact be venereal diseases 
due to sexual union with poor women, and will wander. 


Hora Ratna says that the person will be poor and wilt 
contact venereal diseases. 


101. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be endowed 
with happiness, will have a fleet of horses, will have many 
friends, be proud, dear to good people, and will befriend elders. 


102. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have loss 
of horses, will practise self restraint, will present an artificial 
disposition (while inwardly he will be of a different nature), 
will be pious and will have parents with him. 


36 Garga Hora 


103: Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will consider 
money as the most important aim, will have knowlege of 
Sastras, will win his five senses and will be pious to the 
Almighty. . 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN LAGNA 
(From Rule 104 to 108) 


104. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be 
helpful to others, wicked, cruel (?), will be subjected to grief 
and be virtuous. 


Notes : According to Balabhadra will be helpful, wicked, 
weak, blameworthy, grieved, and will! not have virtues. 


105. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be 
subjected to great penury, be devoid of enemies, be extreme in 
nature, will be forsaken by his caste, will have defect in limbs, 
be very sickly broken-hearted and modest. 


106. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus. Saturn: will-be hard 
hearted and will always be insulted by others. 

107. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
interested in committing sinful acts, and will have many kinds 
of diseases. 

108. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have 
vices and various diseases. 

Note : Seven Planets in Lagna : Not mentioned. 


Second Bhava . 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN SECOND BHAVA 
(From Rule 109 to 127) 


109. Sun-Moon : will not have money, will be ungrateful, 
will always possess bad disposition, will not be splendorous, 
will be subjected to diseases and fear. 


Notes : This position in the 2nd house, will cause eye- 
diseases, facial defects etc. Should Rahu join these two in this 
bhava, the native may have defective speech or be dumb. 


110. Sun-Mars : will suffer from penury, be shameless, 
unkind, and sinful. 


111. Sun-Mercury : His body will be full of boils and 
wounds; he will not have any property, will be had in disposi- 
tion, will be bereft of servants, be troubled by others, and 
will be subjected to much grief. 


112. Sun-Jupiter : will be immodest, will be troubled, 
interested in committing sinful acts, be eloquent in speech, and 
will contact difficulties in foreign countries. 


113 Sun-Venus : will be cruel in nature, attached to base 
men, will have many enemies, will instil fear in others, and be 
not bright in appearance. 


114. Sun-Saturn : will contact many diseases, will 
approach others in vain, be unkind, be not angry and will not 
join the virtuous. 

115, Moon-Mars : will be ruled by the public, (whereas) 
Balabhadra mentions STATA yA meaning that the native will 


38 Garga Hora 


be troubled right from birth), will have a dejected wife, will 
look. old, be ungrateful, be a servant, be wicked and bright in 
appearance. 


116. Moon-Mercury : will be very rich, be free from 
vices, and dear to the king. 


Notes : ‘garfaay is added in Balabhadra's text indica- 
ting that the native will be very happy. 


116 a. Moon-Jupiter : will be.a king, will be splendorous, 
be interested in Virtues, will destroy enemies, will have many 
sons, and be liked by the public. 


117. Moon-Venus : will have virtue as his wealth, will be 
either a king or a minister, will have many friends, and will be 
attached to his son. : 


Notes : Balabhadra mentions that the native will be 
interested in acquiring a son as against C.G. Rajan’s statement 
that the subject will be attached to his sons. 


118. Moon-Saturn : will not.have any wealth, will follow 
bad course, will be troubled by enemies, be argumentative 
in nature, and his relatives will perish. 


119. Mars-Mercury : will lose wife and wealth, be 
subjected to blemish, will cantact discases, will not possess 
good qualities and will not patronise his relatives. 


120. Mars-Jupiter : will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, 
will have few sons, and will be blamed in arguments. 


121. Mars-Venus ; Same results as given above for Mars-: 
Jupiter. Hora Ratna has also similar slokas for Mars-Jupiter 
and Mars-Venus. 


122. Mars-Saturn : will have wealth, grains, pearls and 
such other precious stones, will acquire few sons and be 
untruthful. 


Notes : Hora Ratna does not attribute truthlessness to 
this combination, but adds that the subject will be acceptable to 
females, will visit pilgrimages and will not have any desires 
(i.e. will not be greedy). 


Second Bhava 39° 


Mercury-Jupiter yogain the 2nd is not discussed either 
by C.G. Rajan or by Balabhadra. But C.G, Rajan adds that 
with this combination in any Bhava, the native will know 
Brahma Vidya (i.e. will have knowledge of Supreme Spirit), will 
head a town or be equal to a king, be wealthy, will have 
virtues worth respect, and will be expert in mathematics. 

It is a good augury if Mars and Juipiter join in the 2nd, 
to master astrology, palmistry and such other occult sciences. 

123. Mercury-Venus : will acquire a fleet of horses and 
elephants, be very wealthy, wise, virtuous, truthful, and will be 
dear to Brahmins. . 

124. Mercury-Saturn : will be devoid of wealth, fierce, 
wicked, and will join bad elements. 

125. Jupiter-Venus: will be chiefamong kings, will be 
endowed with honour, wealth and army (nowadays follo- 
wers), will honour good deeds, will live by praise and valour 
and will be successful. 

126. Jupiter-Saturn : will be troubled by kings, be quite 
sickly, greedy, be free from ememies, and be not happy in 
any respect. 

127. Venus-Saturn : will be bereft of sons and money, be 
dirty in appearance, cruel and will perform bad acts. 


* EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN SECOND BHA VA 
(From Rule 128 to 160) 

128. Sun-Moon-Mars : will not be wealthy, be troubled 
by others, be not efficacious, be cruel and will be troubled 
by fear. 

129. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be timid by nature, be 
indigent, will have a bad wife and will experience grief by his 
own bad acts. 

130. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will have bad sons, will torture 
others, be sensuous, ungrateful and will instil fear in elders. 

131. Sun-Moon-Venus  : will indulge in enmity with friends, 
will have conveyances, will not have much wealth, will look 
ugly, will depend on elders and be given to anger. 


40 Garga Hora 


132. Sun-Moon-Saturn : will' be ungrateful, be interested 
in visiting foreign countries, interested in gambling, will face 
troubles, be not virtuous and be with little wealth. 


133. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will bea dunce, a spendthrift, 
be truthful, will have a prodigal son, be shameless and be 
devoid of friendliness. 


134. Sun-Mars-Jupiter +: will be devoid of wealth, be 
wicked, will have a lean body, and will earn enmity in service. 


' 135. Sun-Mars-Venus : will not have commonsense, will 
be forsaken by many, will prove a bad servant, be interested in. 
battle, and will lose property. 


136. Sun-Mars-Saturn : willhave a polluted physique, be 
devoid of qualities and wealth, be fond of promoting quarrels, 
be sick at all times, and will be condemned by good pcople. 


137. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : will have many wounds and 
boils in the body, be blamed, wicked, be troubled by people 
and will wound others’ feelings. 


138. Sun-Mercury-Venus : will be always insulted, will 
look like a lion, be sensuous, miserly, will face ups and downs, 
and be a simpleton. 


Notes : Hora Ratna does not attribute ups and downs; 
neither it describes the subjcct as a simpleton. It, however, 
adds that the native will be involved in fightings and will be 
fond of promoting quarrels. 


139. Sun-Mercury-Sai urn : will derive help from his ‘own’ 
people, will be indigent, be fierce, be not virtuous, and bea 
simpleton. 


140. Sun-Jupiter-Venus : will be dull-witted, not learned, 
unwise, will lose properly, be defeated, and be a miser, 


141. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn : will be given to much anger, be 
troubled by diseases, be interested in promoting quarrels, be 
devoid of righteous deeds and be very indigent. 


142. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will be interested in acts which 


Second Bhava 41 


are not righteous, be wicked, immodest, troubled and will 
indulge in bad acts. 


143. Moon-Mars-Mercury :; will be subject to vicissitude, 
be harsh in speech, be scandalous in money matters; be child- 
less, be given to much anger, will suffer from diseases, and es 
forsaken by his relatives. 


144. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be por in status, be devoid 
of wife, issue and wealth, be very greedy and will suffer a 
deseases. 

145. Moon-Mars-Venus : will be troubled by diseases 
caused due to phlegmatic disorders, will not respect his pre- 
ceptors, be very justly disposed, and will be banned from the 
purview of Sastras. 


146. Moon-Mars-Sat urn : will be naturally wicked, be 
fond of alcohol, be interested in gambling, be a dejected ou 
and be forsaken by his relatives. 


147. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be a king, will be insul- 
ted much, be beautiful and wil! be endowed with learning and 
riches. 


148. Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be affluent, will have a 
number of friends, will be learned in sastras, be virtuous, be. 
very Icarned, and be always affectionate. 


149. Moon-Mercury-Saturn: will be efficacious and 
helpful, be a spendthrift, be subjected to grief on account of his 
wife, be a donor and will cheat others. 


150. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be happy, will have good 


ideals, be a king, be very famous, be very wise and will have 
a questionable (mean) profession. 


151. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be free from anger, will 
be interested in good conduct, be sweet in disposition, will 
be attractive, and will be affectionate to his son. 

Notes : That the native will be liked by women is added 


by Bala Bhadra. This combination leads to attachment to 
females. 


42 Garga Hora 


152, Mars-Mercury-Jup iter : will be devoid of ideals, 
will not have any wealth, be very wicked, be attached to others’ 
wives, will wander aimlessly, and will be tortured by his 
libidinous disposition. 


153. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will consider justice as the 
most supreme ideal, be an agriculturist, will pull carts, will 
own fleet of quadrupeds, and will have many friends. 


154. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be very angrily disposed, 
will be fond of meat and flesh, will be interested in possessing 
weapons, will torture others, will spend much, and be a source 
of grief to his own people. 


- 155. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be an expert artisan, will 
take to righteous path, will perform penance, will possess 
attractive body and be fearless. 


156. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will :possess .good robes, will 
enjoy much of pleasures, will be interested in women, will be 
an able speaker, be interested in sastras, be very wealthy and 
very attractive. 


157. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be aking, will owna 
fleet of superior class of elephants and horses, be very aifiuent 
and be attached to his relatives. 


158. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will become superior by 
his righteous acts, be famous, be useful (to others), be very 
kind, and be garrulous. 


159, Mercury-Venus-Saturn +: will have a strong and 
prominent belly, will be interested in various sciences and to 
be truthful, be a drunkard 'but will be piously attached to 
Lord Krishna. 


160. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be endowed with sons 
and wealth, will be a scholar, be justly disposed, be happy, 
‘be very affectionate, and splendorous. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN SECOND BHA VA 
(From Rule 161 to 192) 


161. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will be attached to evil 


Second Bhava 43 


countries (or places), will indulge in unethical acts, will derive 
happiness from his wicked wife, and will incur grief through 
his sons. 


162. Sunt-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will not be of good 
disposition, will not be virtuous, will be untruthful, will be 
very phlegmatic in temperament, and libidinous. 


163. Sunt-Moon-Mars-Venus : will always be worried, be 
dirty, will instil fear in others, be ungrateful, be troubled 
and be not famous. 

164. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will have shaky teeth, and 
long stomach, will not be so greedy, will speak doubtfully (not 
confident, be unwise and be not successful in his mission. 


165. Sua-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will eat anything availa- 
ble, will be troubled due to excess of the three humours, will 
be very greedy and will bafriend very bad elements. 


Notes : Bala.Bhadra adds that the native’s livelihood 
will be through fire (i.e. blacksmith, boiler attendants etc. 
depending on the strengths of the planets involved), and will 
have insatiable thirst (lustre). 


166. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus —: will have diseases related 
to penis (ie. urinal diseases, venereal diseases, bladder etc.), 
will be of mean disposition, will have few sons, will have 
daughters and be not virtuous. 

167. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn S will suffer headache, 
and from windy and phlegmatic diseases, and be not attached 
to his own people. 

168. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will not be sharp, will be 
dejected with people, will be troubled, blame-worthy and 
timid. 

169. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will have plenty of hair 
on the head, will not be dear to the virtuous, elders, brahmins 
etc., will grow by eating food given by others, and will have 
trouble from kings. 

170. Sun-Moon-Venus-Saturn: will be devoid of sons, 
will grow fat by excess work, will have mean ideals, and be 
bereft of pleasures. 


44 Garga Hora 


171. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will'be devoid of good 
disposition, be fierce, be devoid of sons, will be interested in 
women, will have diseased eyes, be spendthrift and have mental 
worries ; 


172. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be sinful, be forsaken 
by his virtuous wife, will be devoid of good relatives and be 
interested in sexual acts. 


173. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be troubled by 
wounds, ‘will have fear, be very proud, be very sinful and be 
not well-taught. 


174. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will.have good speech and 
eyes, will be a tale-bearer, will not show interest in giving 
donations/gifts, be not grateful and will suffer from great 
blemishes. 


175. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be very famous, 
will have big bones and long hair, will live in foreign countries, 
will have more enemies, will be friendly, will always be angry, 
be troubled, wicked, cruel, shameless and be forsaken by 
his wife. 

Notes : Bala Bhadra denotes a part of these results to 
the yoga of Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus, viz. "very famous, will 
have strong eyes (not big bones as C. G. Rajan mentions) 
long hair, will live in foreign countries, will have more enemies 
and be devoid of friendliness (as against friendliness mentioned 
by C. G. Rajan). 


176. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn :; will have many troubles, 
be not virtuous, be devoid of happiness and knowledge of 
sastras, and will befriend only sinners. 


Notes : Bala Bhadra replaces the word “‘Sastras’”’ above 
with “Veda” (syfq) in his text. 
177. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus > will be sickly (tq) 


be emaciated, be less truthful, be dull-witted and interested in 
bad tales. 


178. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will not have wealth, 
will be greedy, will look ugly and will have diseased eyes,: 


Second Bhava 45 


will not have happy relations, will be interested in sexual 
affairs and be sickly disposed. 


179. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Mercury —: will be dear to sages/ 
good people, be interested in Sastras and Puranas, be devoted 
to brahmins, and will be pleasing to look at. 


180. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will_be interested in 
visiting shrines, religious observations, and Sastras, will be 
worshipped and be equal to a king. 


181. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will consider money 
the most important, will have agricultural profession, will 
own a fleet of horse*, will acquire gold, will be famous, will 
be a poet, will be interested in giving donations/gifts and will 
be attractive in appearance. 

182. Moon-Mars-Jupiter- Venus : will be-devoid of learning, 
will be calculative, will be a scholar, and dear to brahmins. 


Notes: C.G. Rajan says that the native will be calcula- 
tive (in his dealings) while Bala Bhadra denotes a mathema- 
tician with this yoga. Both the authors attribute scholarship at 
one place and lack of learning at another place. To us, this 
seems to be self-contradictory, while this combination may 
promote mainly leraning. 

183. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be successful, will 
have virtuous children, be affluent, be honoured even by kings, 
will observe religious regulations, will have various kinds of 
of horses, robes and things, be free from diseases and be 
virtuous. 

184. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be ‘interested in 
performing sacrifices of religious nature and serving the 
virtuous, be an able speaker, be very wealthy and be _ interest- 
ed in Sastras. | 


185. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn _: will be dear to 
brahmins, will possess attractive body, will speak smilingly, be 
always happy and be dear to the king. 

186. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn —_: will be a chief with 
the king, will be respected even by his enemies, will have 
much Wealth and donate liberally. 


46 Garga Hora 


187. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be chief among 
many men, be respected by kings, be a minister, be always 
happy, and be famous. 


188. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be favourable to 
brahmins, be famously valorous, be skilful in achieving royal 
missions patient and happy in all respects. 


189. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be related to 
foreign countries, will have income, be attached to the 
virtuous, will have gardens and wells, and will be on king’s 
mission. 


190. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will have a modest 
wife, will have attractive body, be attached to the virtuous and 
will have abundant grains and money. 


191. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have abundant 
corns, will acquire knowledge of Sastras, be happy, be chief 
among poets and will be principled. 


192. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be skilful in all 
kinds of arts, will destroy enemies, will be famous and be 
attached to wealth. 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN SECOND BHA'VA 
(From Rule 193 to 208) 


193. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be worried, 
very greedy, not wise and will have small body. 


194, Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be subjected 
to troubles due to excessive mundane attachment, be not 
splendorous, be windy in temperament, and interested in 
committing sinful acts. 


195. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be - night- 
blind, be libidinous, will lose his property, will be inimical 
to many, and be dull-witted. 


196. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be without any 
assignment, be not rich, be without good robes, be troubled 
by diseases, and interested in living in foreign countries. 


Second Bhava 47 


197. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be inimical 
even to friends, be not helpful to others, will be very poor, 
will have poor (unrewarding) profession and be not valorous. 


198. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn —: will be interested 
in association with wicked people, will be troubled by wounds 
and boils, be very sinful and be much angrily disposed. 


199, Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus  : will be egoistic, 
impatient, unkind and unjust. 


200. .Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be very 
greedy, short tempered, devoid of desires, be unjust and timid. 


_ 201. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be poor, be 
troubled out of fear, be very sinful, devoid of desires, interested 
in virtues, and will have attractive eyes and legs. 


Notes : ‘Eyes’ are not discussed in Hora Ratna. 


202. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus — : will be blame- 
worthy, ungrateful, will do others* jobs, will give high impor 
tance to wife, and will not be masculine in disposition. 


Notes : Blameworthy, ungrateful, will do other's jobs, 
will possess a virtuous wife and be not valorous (Hora Ratna), 


ma Tray can be interpreted in more than one way : be 
not valorous, devoid of virility due to a man, devoid of action, 
devoid of penis etc. etc. 


203. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will face obstacles 
(in his undertakings), will cheat, be ungrateful, will undertake 
to do inimical acts, and will have an inimical wife. 


Notes: There is no reference to ‘‘obstacles in under 
taking” in Bala Bhadra’s text which however, denotes that the 
native will be blameworthy in addition to the other effects, 
above. ; 


204. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will not have 
people of his own who will have their money (i.e his own 


48 Garga Hora 


people will be devoid of money), will have vices, will not 
be kind at all, and will be inimical to Sastras. 


205. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be interested 
in getting the jobs of his relatives done, be very wealthy, 
learned in Vedas (Sastras etc.) and be pure (q@ WWaals7q). 


206. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will have good 
friends, be modest, be disinterested, will not have food to eat, 
and will suffer from lung disorders. 


207. Moon- Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn ; will be devoted 
to elders and brahmins, be good looking, bc liberal, and skilful 
in divine undertakings, viz. Puja etc. 


208. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn:: will be given 
to anger to a small extent, will be very interested in friends 
and Sastras and be.adventurous. 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN SECOND BHA VA 
(From Rule 209 to 214) 
209. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be very 


much worried, be devoid of truth and wealth, wicked, and 
attached to bad elements. 


209a. Sun. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will not 
attain crops, will have no sons, be very wicked, attached to 
undesirable learning (gaTea7) etc. and _ will befriend bad 
elements. 


210. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be given 
to anger chiefly, will prove an evil to friends, be chief among 
men and be a big cheat. 


211. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be proud, 
will dislike to listen to religious stories, will be fickle-minded 
in speech and wil] be subjected to much grief. 


212. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will not 
attain fame, will not be rich, be blameworthy, be chief and be 
'-free from expenses. 


Second Bhava 49 


Notes: Balabhadra's text reads ''immodest'" as against 
‘freedom from expenses”? of C. G. Rajan. 

213. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will not 
successfully perform his own profession, will be foolish, sick 
and be troubled. 

214. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : The 
native will have the seas as boundaries of his kingdom, will 
hold the flag of virtue aloft, and be very famous. 


EFFECTS OF I PLANETS IN SECOND BHAVA 

215. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will 
be endowed with wealth, horses and elephants galore, and be 
highly virtuous. 


4 


Third Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN THIRD BHA VA 
(From Rule 216 to 235) 


216. Sun-Moon : will have affectionate relatives and 
affectionate wife, will be attached to others, will observe 
religious fastings etc., will have knowledge of Sastras, will 
possess sweet voice, will be a poet and will have increasing 
fame. 

217. Sun-Mars : will be equal to a king, will have lands, 
be interested in possessing conveyances, will have attractive 
eyes, will be courteous to guests, and will acquire many 
sons. 

217-a. Sun Mercury : will have many sons and grandsons, 
will be widely famous, be very valorous, will win his five senses, 
and be dear to people. 

218. Sun-Jupiter : will be wicked, will have many family 
members, will be firm in nature and will not have growing 
wisdom. 

219. Sun-Venus : will lose his good son, be mean minded, 
will suffer much poverty, be interested in foreign visits, and 
will be very proud. 

Notes : According to Hora Ratna, the native will not 
have even a living issue. 

220. Sun Saturn : will .have ‘lasting blame, will kill his 
enemies, will be expert in eloquent speech, and will be useful 
to kings. 


Third Bhava 51 


221. Moon Mars : will be an expert agriculturist, will be 
unhappy will have many expenses, be dear to women and be 
attached to his children. 


Notes : Bala Bhadra’s text does not quote ‘many 
expenses”’ but “‘modest.” 


222. Moon-Mercury: will be ugly, be interested in 
gambling, be jealous, wicked, ill-tempered and always fickle- 
minded. 

223. Moon-Jupiter : will have great vices, be subjected to 


much worries, be interested in making enmity and be not 
bold. 


Notes: The quality of ‘“‘betraying’? is attributed by 
Hora Ratna instead of "making enmity". 


224. Moon- Venus : will have attractive hands and thighs, 
be dull-witted, will be able to endure worries and will live a 
life with poverty. 

Notes : According to Hora Ratna, the subject will have 
long hands extending upto knees, be dull witted, will put up 
with grief of all kinds, will be devoid of virtues, and will have 
poor living on the earth, 

225. Moon-Saturn : will be free from diseases, be devoid of 
worldly desires (faztg), will be attentive (a~aré}), be honoured 
by many virtuous people, and be passionate. 


226. Mars-Mercury : will be helpful to others, will possess 
a physique with pleasant flavour, will have beautiful hair, be 
very efficacious, and be endowed with all riches. 


227. Mars-Jupiter : be fearless, interested in virtues, very 
pious, splendorous, highly truthful and pure. 


228. Mars-Venus : will bea skilful artist, be virtuous, 
interested in visiting shrines, will possess good qualities and 
be justly disposed. 


229. Mars-Saturn : will be so powerful as a king, be free 
from all kinds of diseases, will head even the kings and will 
attain success over enemies. 


52 Garga Hora 


230. Murcury-Jupiter : will be fearful in war, dull-witted, 
be not virtuous, be devoid of intelligence, will not have good 
relatives and be sickly. 


231. Mercury-Venus : will possess riches, 'be afflicted, 
will be ignorant or illusioned, be highly interested in sexual 
acts, be troubled by sons and will suffer from secret diseases 
(like V.D.). 

232. Mercury-Saturn : will be close to affluent class, be 
interested in good conduct, will possess attractive limbs, will 
have bright face and be of good disposition. 


233. Jupiter-Venus : will not be prosperous be devoid of 
sons, be defeated, will have abundant grief and also abundant 
happiness, be devoid of shame and be not friendly. 


234. Jupiter-Saturn : will be firm in disposition, will be 
self-sufficient: in: respect of food, drinks, and robes. learned, be 
chief in his race and rich. 


235. Venus-Saturn : will be endowed with riches, will 
possess a clear disposition, be dear to kings free from diseases 
and honoured. 


Notes : From the above relevant principles, we learn 
that Saturn is most welcome in the 3rd and gives fairly good 
results in the company of another planet. 

EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN THIRD BHAVA 
(From Rule 236 to 268) 

236. Sun-Moon-Mars : will have a very supreme position 
(ag ronr’), will have conveyances, be prosperous, be very rich 
and will be intelligent. 

237. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be very fortunate, be inte- 
rested in sastras, be inclined to do the jobs of the virtuous, be 
a great person and be devoid of fear. 

238. Sun-Moon-Jupiter —: will not be efficacious, will have 
a barren wife, be interested in befriending mean people, be 
prone to danger, and devoid of learning. 

Notes : Bala Bhadra’s text reads “4*®7 14” meaning that 
the native will be unfruitfully industrious. This statement is 


Third Bhava 53 


against C.G. Rajan’s mention of “‘barren lady". Apparently 
his original read = aeqrray. 


239. Sun-Moon-Venus : will be troubled by sickness, be 
ungrateful, be deformed and wicked. 


240. Sun-Moon-Saturn : will possess beautiful body, be 
interested in performing Homas, Pooja, donation etc., wil! have 
many friends and be shameful. 

241. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will be chiefin a king’s place, 
be highly truthful, be famous, be very beautiful, be very rich, 
be interested in donating, and will have others in his company 
(whereas Bala Bhadra says that the native will trouble others). 


242. Sun-Mars-Jupiter ': will be very valorous, will have 
control over his five senses, be not given to anger, be virtuous, 
and attached to others. 

243. Sun-Mars-Venus : will not be beautiful, be interested 
in performing virtues acts, will have many children and be 
devoid of sexual feelings. 


244. Sun-Mars-Saturn : will be king of kings, will be rich 
with elephants and horses, be valorous, be a poet and will instil 
fear in enemies. 


245 Sun-Mercury-Jupiter +: will be a successful army chief, 
will win over his enemies, and be endowed with patience. 


246. Sun-Mercury-Venus : will be endowed with quadru- 
peds, be dear to virtuous people, be an agriculturist, be very 
rich, and acceptable to all. 


247. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will win over enemies, will 
possess many weapons, be expert in fighting a war, be patient 
and will always have good conduct. 


248. Sun-Jupiter-Venus : will be justly disposed, interested 
in stories, and be equal to a king. 


249. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn : will be famous for performance 
(fafa sfaa@q of Bala Bhadra's text can also mean ‘famous for 
knowledge in injunctions), will be interested in giving 


54 Garga Hora 


donations, be attached to women, be attractive, well-trained 
and skilful in ail arts. 


250. Moon-Mars-Mercury : be learned in Vedas, be an 
agriculturist, be interested in listening to religious stories, wil! 
have strong body, and be very valorous. 


251. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will perform peculiar acts, be 
interested in learning sastras, will enjoy various kinds of food 
and drinks, and will be principled and opposed to sinful 
schemes. 


252. Moon-Mars-Venus : will possess a.. odest wife, will 
be full of faith, be skilful in speech, famous and fearless. 


253. Moon-Mars-Venus_ : will be helpful to others, famous, 
very rich, splendorous, modest and will be lord of women. 


254. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will always be poor, will 
promote quarrels, be ill-tempered, interested in committing 
sinful deeds and will destroy his own relatives. 


255. Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be insulted by others, 
will undertake mean professions, be ungrateful, be subjected to 
much grief and be opposed to good men. 


256. Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will grow b eating others* 
food, destroy enemies. be free from sickness and be always 


happy. 


257. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be subjected to many 
difficulties, be shameless, unkind and inimical to Sastras, elders 
and brahmins. 


258. Moon-Jupiter Saturn : will eat any casual food, will 
be honoured by all, will control his mind, will be a lord, be not 
learned, and will destroy his enemies. 


258a. Moon-Verus-Saturn +: Not available. C. G, Rajan 
states in general context, that these 3 planets in any Bhava 
will make one learned in Vedas, Agamas etc., a preceptor by 


Third Bhava 55 


king's appointment, will be bestowed with great beauty and. 
will be much sought after by one and all. Hora Ratna is also 
silent on this yoga while dealing with 3rd bhava. 


259. Mars-Jupiter-Mercury : will ‘have strong body, be 
not proud, will visit shrines, will donate liberally, be very 
valorous and be dear to his own men. 


260. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will have all happiness and 
pleasures, be dear to women, be truthful, be great, will perform 
royal duty, and be free from greed. 


261. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be happy and _ pros- 
perous, be endowed with wealth, horses, elephants etc., will be 
very kind and firmly disposed. 


262. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will have chiefly sons, be pure 
being truthful, be skilful in speech, fearless and be liked by 
many. 


263. Mars-Jupiter-Sat urn : will acquire gold, be righ- 
teous, be an agriculturist, will acquire quadrupeds, be very 
attractive and. will always speak truth. 


264. Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be very valorous, be 
modest, righteous firm and happy with sons. 


265. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be timid in nature, be 
won by enemies, ignorant or illusioned, and will suffer from 
diseases like itch (and other skin diseases). 


266. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will donate prominently, 
be free from afflictions, learned in sastras, prosperous, will 
work with modesty, and will be very proud. 


267. Mercury-Venus-Saturn : Both C. G. Rajan and. 
Balabhadra do not mention the effects of these three planets in 
the third Bhava. However, C.G. Rajan mentions in his appen- 
dix, without reference to Bhava, that the native will be a liar, 
with these three planets in addition to being wicked and related 
to other women illegally. 


268. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will respect sages,(or wise men) 
be learned in Vedas etc., interested in singing, be not sinful, 


56 Garga Hora 


be interested in women's wealth, be prosperous, will locate 
hidden treasures, be dear to young women and will be firm in 
friendship. 
EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN THIRD BHAVA 
(From Rule 269 to 300) 

269. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will acquire plenty of 
riches, be very efficacious, will like those who have an attractive 
physique and be interested in good deeds and principles. 

270. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be truthful, will win 
over enemies, will be egoistic and will win many friends out of 
his eloquence. 

271. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus : will be chief among the 
cousins, will earn a number of friends, be dear to virtuous 
people, and will respect his teachers. 


272. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will be skilful in learning, 
be the head of a town, will own many villages and quadrupeds, 
and be worshipped by the king. 

273. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be attached to 
ciders, be friendly to virtuous people, will have many assign- 
ments and will respect Brahmins. 

274. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus  : will be endowed with. 
quadrupeds, robes, food etc., be famous and be happy with 
sons. 

275. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn :*will be modest, be inte- 
rested in gardens wells, trees etc., will continue to have 
acquistion of wealth and be pious. 


Notes :OTTO has been interpreted as_ wealth in this 
context. 


276. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : willbe a king. be splen- 
dorous, be very chief among men, will have faith in sastras 
and be always kindly disposed. 


277. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus: will possess superior 
diamonds, will acquire sons and wealth, will be successful, and 
will conquer his enemies. 


278. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be famous, will 


Third Bhava 57 


always wed success, will lend help to animals, be beautiful, 
will conquer his senses and be virtuous. 


279. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be highly placed 
among his own men, wealthy, enthusiastic, and valorous. 


280. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn: will possess highly good 
qualities, will be endowed with beauty, learning, wealth and © 
justice, be very efficacious and be free from vices. 


281. Sua-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be intelligent, will 
possess an auspicious physique, be attached to those born in 
supreme race, will be highly praised and dear to his people. 


232. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will worship the 
Almighty and brahmins, be not attached to anything, be 
famous for his wisdom and will have good sons. 


283. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be interested in 
making friendship with good people, will have knowledge of 
philosophy and be famous for his sastraic learning. 


284. Sun-Mercury- Venus-Saturn : will have servants, be 
learned in sastras, be endowed with virtue and justice and will 
be worshipped by the king. 

285. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have many sons, be 
famous, very learned, be free from afflictions, and will own 
elephants. 

286. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter +: will be wicked, 
immodest, given to much anger, and will be bad in nature. 

287. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will not have common- 


sense, will be bereft of sons and relatives, be interested in 
war, and will promote quarrels. 


288. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn: will be inspired with 
love (aqzrit), be not virtuous, be lazy, unkind, and interested 
in adventures. 


289, Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : be not splendorous, 
will not have intelligence and prosperity, will be greedy and 
will always suffer afflictions. 


58 Garga Hora 


290. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be attached to 
people in the town, will have good behaviour, -be highly 
respected, be interested in eating flesh, be truthful and wealthy’ 


Notes : C.G. Rajan’s version is far from truth in regard 
to the first two effects. Bala Bhadra's text here reads 
“farearaieg aftagia” meaning a displeased citizen and will 
not have good history. Thus Bala  Bhadra's thinking is 
acceptable, according to the sloka concerned. 


29 1s Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn —: will have bad disposition, 
be fickleminded, will suffer from penury, and be interested in 
living in foreign countries. 


292. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus  : will-be worried, will 
have desires, be not proficient, will have a dejected wife and 
will destroy his place. 


“Notes : Hora Ratna adds that the native will destroy his 
wealth. It also does not deal with ‘desires’ unlike C.G. 
Rajan. 


293. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn — : will be deprived of 
wife and horses (i.e. conveyances), will suffer from excess of 
wind and phlegm, will spend on bad missions, and be 
enthusiastic in committing sinful acts. 


294. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will hate brahmins, 
will consume intoxicants, will be very base in disposition, and 
be dirty. 


295. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Sat urn ! will not have good 
history, will be devoid of noble aims, be deprived of his own 
men, be not learned and will be friendly. | 


296. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus . : will be happy, will 
have many sons, be truthful, be very rich, will win over his 
senses, and be not virtuous. ‘ 


297, Mars-Jupiter-Mercury-Saturn — ;: will consider money 
supreme, will become virtuous by giving donations, be attached 
to people and _sastras. 


298. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn — : will be very truthful, 


Third Bhava 59 


be interested in observing the requirements laid down for his 
own caste, b2 very famous, b: dear to guests and b:2 praised 
by relatives. . 


299. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will possess a beauti- 
ful body, be wicked, be not sinful and be rich. 


300. Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will be wicked, be 
sinful, ungrateful, not virtuous and be unjust. 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN THIRD BHA VA 
(From Rule 301 to 318) 


301. Sunt-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be very rich, 
will be bestowed with sons, will be beautiful, dear to his wife 
and will have pleasing appearance. 


302. Sun- Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be a great- 
man, will be very famous in performing yagnas, will hold the 
flag of virtue aloft, will be helpful to living beings and will be a 
chief, 


303. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be a scholar, 
be interested in maintaining self respect, will enjoy abundant 
pleasures, will be virtuous and be also a singer. 


304. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will eat crabs, will 
be very wicked, will respect gods and Brahmins and will know 
(his) duties. 


305. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will not perform 
worships (due as routine), will control his enemies’ pride, will 
give importance to friends, and will be very shy. 


306. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be kindly 
disposed, will perform such acts that will bring fame, be grate- 
ful, be dear to the virtuous and to his own men. 


307. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be favoura- 
ble to guests, will respect God and men, and will possess good 
disposition. 


308. Surt- Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be successful 


60 Garga Hora 


in undertakings, will consider money as important, will enjoy 
robes and jewels and be beautiful. 


309. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Jupiter : will possess 
scented articles and robes, will have knowlege of Sastras, be 
famous, and will be happy with an extremely virtuous wife. 


310. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : willbe interested 
in good qualities, be famous, amiable to all, intent on giving 
gifts, and will not be attached to anything. 


311, Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will have truth as 
the foremost aim, be justly disposed, will donate, be very 
patient, and will be dear to Brahmins. 


312. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will ‘be free 
from (unnecessary) expenses, will have pure mind, be skilful 
and will not have firm sexual feelings. 


313. Moo:-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be fierce, 
be interested in stories related to sex, be grateful and 
unenthusiastic. 


314. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : ‘will have 
wicked disposition, will suffer from heavy thirst, will spend a 
lot and wiJl hate Sastras. 


315. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn —: will have blemi- 
shes, will respect God and brahmins, be sinful, and will be 
troubled by sexual feelings. 


316. Moon- Mars-Mercury-Venus-Sat urn :..will not be 
enthusiastic, be wicked, very cunning and be not splendorous. 
(According to Hora Ratna, the native will also be averse to 
sex feelings.) 


317. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn —: will be interes- 
ted in mean people, will be bad in disposition, and will desire 
to have his children in big families. 


318. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have 
wonderful appearance and jewels, will be beautiful, be interes- 
ted in singing, and be virtuous. 


third Bhava 61 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN THIRD BHA VA 
(From Rule 319 to 325) 


319. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be 
expert in “gandharva vedas will have an auspicious face 
beautiful eyes and pleasing looks (appearance). 


Notes : a=7q fa‘TT is only indicative of the science of 
music, whereas “‘Gandharva Vedas” are referred to Rajan's 
text. 


320. Sun-Moon-Man-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be 
dear to great people, and to virtuous brahmins. 


Notes : Hora Ratna : will be dear to great people, be 
helpful to Brahmins and be of good disposition. 


321. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
endowed with riches, be skilful in justice and will have an 
attractive face. 


322. Sun-Mars-Mercuy-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
wealthy, will conquer five senses, and be without propitious- 


ness (J°7). 


323. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will be 
successful, skilful, be very propitious or lucky faiwrfiw?) and 
famous. 


324. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : Not availa- 
ble for 3rd bhava both in C.G. Rajan's text or Hora Ratna. 
C.G. Rajan however, adds that this combination in general 
gives opportunity to visit shrines and the native will live in 
forests and hills. 


325. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : Not 
available in C.G. Rajan’s text or in Hora Ratna. In the 
appendix, C.G. Rajan states that the native will be subject to 
diseases of head and mind, will live in foreign countries or 
deserted places. 


325. a-Seven planets in third Bhava: 


See under Lagna Bhava. 


D 


Fourth Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN FOURTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 326 to 346) 

326. Sun-Moon : will be bereft of happiness and pleasures, 
be subject to perils, will be able to guess others' thinking, be 
not splendorous and not friendly. 

327. Sun-Mars : will suffer bloody and windy diseases, 
be not propitious/lucky, be subjected to troubles and given to 
anger. 

328. Sun-Mercury : will suffer from windy and _ phleg- 
matic diseases, will have few sons, be insulted by enemies, 
attached to wicked people and interested in his own country. 


329, Sun-Jupiter : will be sinful (afaa taatay), be devoid 
of wealth, be assumed in or of false disposition ( HID-caATAT), 
be highly phlegmatic and be ill-tempered. 

Ni>te : The above translation is Somewhat in deviation 
of C.G. Rajan's text, but in full conformity with Bala Bhadra's 
text. 

330. Sun- Venus : will be very much addicted to intoxi- 
cation, be subjected physical ailments, be cruel and fickle- 
minded. 

331. Sun-Saturn : will be troubled by Gods, be very 
ill-tempered, be interested in promoting quarrels, be devoid of 
shame and be dullwitted. 

332. Moon-Mars : will have few sons, be impatient, be 
interested in others' wives, dear to people and be forsaken 
by his own children. 


Fourth. Bhava AY 


333. Moon-Mercury : will be very truthful, be clear in 
speech, (be pleasing in speech—as per Hora Ratna), be very 
wise, be dear to people and be supreme among the beings. 


334. Moon-Jupiter: will have knowldge of politics (or 
policies) be beautiful very garrulous, dear to king, kind and 
will respect Gods and preceptors. 


335. Moon-Venus : will be a great man, will have large 
hands—zegtq s<(unusual in size-or prominent), will be very 
happy by having many a friend and many a son, be chief among 
the men of his race, and be ever modest. 


336. Moon-Saturn : will always be sick, be hard-hearted, 
be blameworthy, ungrateful and interested in other countries. 


337. Mars-Mercury : will have wounded physique, will 
steal women (¢atata), be- a drunkard, a gambler, and be 
atached to none. 


Notes : This combination is indicative of men in general 
who lift women and sell them for immoral purposes. Such men 
as per this rule may be addicted drunkards, notorious gamb- 
lers and be devoid of affection to their own people. 


Balabhadra adds that the native will be subject to many 
vices. 


339. Mars-Jupiter : will be successful, poor, akin to cupid, 
interested in sins, forsaken by his relatives and will have 
penchant for arts. 


Notes : “Successful” is not a justified rendering, if we 
follow Balabhadra’s version. It reads ‘‘fafsra” mening that the 
native will be defeated. 


340. Mars-Saturn : will be subjected to much grief, will 
expend on bad means, be unfriendly, will perform mean acts, 
and will talk unnecessarily. 


341. Mercury-Jupiter : will be very happy, very kind 
hearted, will perform such acts as to bring fame, be patient 
and be worshipped by the king. 


64 Garg a Hora 


342. Mercury-Venus : will be dear to the king, be equal 
to the king and be a minister or chief of army. 


343. Mercury-Saturn : will be won over by enemies, be 
short of blood, be sick, and will suffer from fever. 


344, Jupiter-Venus : will have wealth in plenty, will be 
endowed with gold, pearls and sons, will be faithful to religion 
and interested in shrines etc. 


Notes : This is a very supreme position to have rich 
conveyances and also high academic achievements. 


345. Jupiter-Saturn : Not available both in C.G. Rajan's 
text and Balabhadra's as well. However, the former adds _ that 
this yoga in general, produces a cook, or a potter or an 
artisan. 

346. Venus-Saturn : will have less happiness, will be 
devoid of tongue (fafa@yz), will have dejected friends, be 
timid and will cheat others. | 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN FOURTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 347 to 381) 


347. Sun-Moon-Mars  : will not be able to achieve success 
in his aim, will have foul smell in mouth, be devoid of intelli- 
gence, be fierce, be troubled by phlegm, and be subjected to 
miseries. 

348. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be devoid of good qualities, 
“‘will have hands devoid of much splendour", will be ungreat- 
ful, and will be happy with the money earned through very 
hard labour. 


Notes: “JETAGIAT is Balabhadra's reading, which 
apparently has been put by C.G. Rajan as "the native will have 
hands devoid of much splendour". The correct meaning of the 
same should be that the native will be devoid of preceptor's 
influence. 


349. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will be interested in indulging 
in bad acts causing difficulties, be sick, be addicted to vices, be 
subjected to penury and be devoid of wisdom and wealth. 


Fourth Bhava 6 


350. Sun-Moon-Venus: will always be-attahced to his wife, 
be given to anger, will indulge in mean acts, will be insulted by 
others and be not just. 


351. Sun-Moon-Saturn will be highly rheumatic (windy), 
be fierce, be devoid of respect for Gods and _ preceptors, will 
befriend many bad elements and be bad in mentality. 


352. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will be fierce in disposition, 
will be interested in others' money, will forsake his family, be 
bad in mentality, will wed a barren lady, and_ will hate 
sastras. 


353. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will be devoid of parents, rela- 
tives, character, splendour and sexual feelings, be attached to 
mean people and hard-hearted. 


Notes : fttftFiT’ apart from meaning “‘devoid of character" 
can appropriately be interpreted as devoid of fortune. Lack 
or token of identify is not also ruled out. 


354. Sun-Mars- Venus : will be primarily_happy, will have 
a large army, be interested in Sastras and Puranas, be ill- 
disposed (Hse t7ataq) and be timid. 


Notes : ®sz tqyraq finds also evil-thinkers in the com- 
bination of Sun-Mars-Venus in the 4th bhava. 


355. Sun-Mars-Saturn : will be subjected to various 
worries, be devoid of shame, be indolent.(be dull-witted' as per 
Balabhadra), be short-lived and just. 


356. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : will be honoured, grieved, 
attached to bad people, be a miser, will be very much happy 
(antfaay) and be troubled by enemies (aurfaa). 


Notes : The last two phrases find corrupt translation in 
Rajan’s text However, correct meaning is as above. The 
native will be sometimes happy and sometimes not. 


357. Sun-Moon-Venus : will be interested in sins, bad 
in disposition, will be troubled due to excessive phlegm, be 
shameless, will have bad nails and be ungrateful. 


66 Garga Hora 


358. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will be devoid of good 
history, will be troubled by friendship with bad elements and be 
wicked. 


359. Sun-Jupitéer-Venus : Not available as per C.G. 
Rajan and Balabhadra. However, Rajan states in general 
context that the native will be endowed with wife, children 
and wealth. He will suffer from eye diseases. He will be 
intelligent. 


360. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn :; will be interested in other's 
money, will forsake truth, be hard-hearted, and will be devoid 
of wisdom, wealth and justice due to curse. 


361. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will be forsaken by friends, will 
not be good-looking, will be endowed with wife, will have 
excess or deficiency of a limb, and be not virtuous. 


362. Moon-Mars-Mercury — : will acquire learning, be vir- 
tuous, be very happy, will conquer his senses, and will be 
insulted by wicked people. 

363. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will enjoy all kinds of happi- 
ness, be honoured by kings and own relatives, and be endowed 
with quadrupeds. 

364. Moon-Mars-Venus : Not available as per C.G. Rajan 
and Balabhadra. However, Rajan adds that this yoga in general 
gives wicked. sons and wandering nature. 

365. Moon-Mars-Saturn: will be free from committing 
sinful acts; be interested in sastraic knowledge, be tactful, be a 
powerful speaker and will earn much. 

366. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be a king, will be free 
from diseases, will have many kinds of horses, be given to 
anger, will be very efficacious and will conquer his enemies. 

367. Moon-Mercury- Venus : will be endowed with great 
lordship, will be famous because of his great wife, be kind, and 
be interested in good people. 

368. Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be endowed with great 
lordship, will be a great personage, be chief in his lineage, and 
will be brought up affectionately by his parents. 


Fourth Bhava 67 


Notes : fxs qyahais repeated in Rules 367 and 368 and 
hence both these yogas give great lordship. 


369. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : Not available as per C.G. 
Rajan and Balabhadra's text. However, Rajan adds that the 
native with this yoga in general will have wisdom, learning, 
skilful sons and expertise in arts. 


370. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be famous, interested in 
comforts, be free from sickness, will have good heart, will have 
sons who will be endowed with various riches, and be a 
lord. 


371. Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be notably courageous, 
will enjoy the company of a good girl among relatives (accord- 
ing to Balabhadra), and will earn wonderful things through 
king's patronage. 


372. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will enjoy happiness through 
sons, be an agriculturist, be endowed with fame, valour etc., 
and will be attached to his guests and brahmins. 


373. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will grow various varieties 
of crops, will have many quadrupeds, and will have a number 
of relatives. 


374. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be very greedy, be bereft 
of friends, be interested in others' wives, be hard-hearted and 
be always dirty. 


375. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : :.will always have good disposi- 
tion, will visit sacred places, will be endowed with much fame 
and much valour, be chief among the members of his lineage, 
and will have auspicious and fully grown body. 

376. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will have good qualities, will 
have less earnings and less happiness, will be a servant and a 
well-wisher of the king. 

377. Mars-Venus-Saturn : ‘will be wicked in disposition, 
be against good people, be very ill-tempered and hard-hearted. 

378. Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : willlord over the earth, be 


devoid of enemies, will.have sons, be virtuous in disposition, 
and will have pleasing looks. 


68 Garga Hora 


379. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be a befitting groom, 
will have knowledge of Mantras, and will give liberal gifts to 
preceptors and relatives. 


380. Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will perform his duties, 
will be a merchant, be patient, be interested in giving dona- 
tions, and be pure. 


381. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn +: will be a repository of fame, 
will have religious initiation, be interested in the duties of the 
elders, will have an auspicious face and be chief among men. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN FOURTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 382 to 411) 


382. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will be bereft of wisdom, 
be insulted by others, be forsaken by his own people, be un- 
kind and timid. 

383. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be devoid of good 
qualities, will give up his children, be fearful, will not have good 
history and be not happy. 

384. Sun-Mars-Moon-Venus : will be devoid of friends, 


money and beauty, will be conquered by others, and will be 
mindless. 


385. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn ;: will be unkind, be a thief, 
be fierce and interested in promoting quarrels. 


386. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be very inquisitive, 
be troubled by sexual feelings, will’ be devoid of good qualities 
and will be of low caste. 


387. Sun-Moon-Mercury Venus : will look ugly, will 
not be friendly, will not have hair on the limbs (i.e. on chest; 
arms, knees etc.), and will always be interested in living in 
foreign countries. 


388. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will not have any aims 
(razz) will be a thief, will be interested in females belonging 
to others, will take to very mean professions, and will. be bad 
disposition. 


389. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will lose his attention, 


Fourth Bhava 69 


will be interested in promoting quarrels, will be harsh. in 
speech, will be ugly in appearance and will wear rags. 


390. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn — : will live in bad countries 
(Saar), will be-cheated by women, be interested in prostitutes 
and be unkind. 


Note: Balabhadra adds éyqaqy meaning that the 
native will be procrastinating in nature. 


391. Sun-Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be interested in good 
justice, will like to gamble, will lose wealth, be ugly, and 
connected with bad deeds. 


392. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus: will be troubled by 
hunger, weapons and diseases, and be _ excessively windy 


(aratfaaz), 


393. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will have fierce eyes, 
will be night blind, be interested in husbandry and be sinful. 


394. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be of untruthful 
disposition, will not be patient, and be garrulous. 


395. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will not have good nature, 
will wear rags, be not friendly, will behave like a wise man, 
will have evils. 


396. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will acquire a wife, will 
be insulted by others, will have a wounded physique, will 
cause nuisance to public, and will always have enemies. 


397. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will alwys be an employer, 
will be served by many attendants, will do liberal acts and 
be fearless in disposition. 


Notes : This combination is apparently to run large 
establishments with a wide work-force. 


398. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn: will be devoted to 
others (devoted to Fire, according to Balabhadra), will have 
numerous workmen, be widely famous, very wealthy and be 
dear to people. 


399, Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus — : will be timid in nature, 
truthful, kind respectful to Brahmins, and will like virtues. 


70 Garga Hora 


400. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus: willbe very surprisingly 
bold, will be endowed with wealth of passion and be attached 
to good men. 


401. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be endowed with 
virtues, will feel happy to serve virtuous men, will perform 
auspicious acts and will have wisdom as his pride. 


402. Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be respectful to 
Brahmins, be enthusiastic, be interested in virtues, be liked 
by women and will be famous for his efficacy. 


403. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be highly bashful, 
be interested in his duty, be of truthful disposition, and will 
be attached to those who perform penance. 


404. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will help Brahmins, 
will help others, will not be attached to anything, will enjoy 
good fame, and will be successful in arguments. 


Notes : Balabhadra's text does not say that the native 
will help Brahmins. But it has a redundant statement in that 


it states “fga TaaTY TIeI< Yaqr” broadly meaning one and 
the same thing. 


405. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Sat urn: will have many Sons, 
will be liked by women, be free from blemish, will be happy 
with wisdom and. wealth, and be a lord. 


406. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be interested in 
earning money through merchandising (i.e. business in 


general), be famous and be always endowed with mental 
vigour. 


Notes : Balabhadra's text does not mention of any 
mental vigour. It reads atx: afga aza meaning that the 
native will have always bodily vigour or splendour. 


407. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be endowed with 
extremely merciful tendency, be dovoid of sex feelings, will 


speak clearly (eloquently), will be justly disposed and respectful 
or honourable. 


Fourth Bhava 71 


408. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will have respect for 
his preceptors, will not spend (unnecessarily), will be very 
wealthy, will be very respectable and be a lord. 


409. Mars-Mercury- Venus-Saturn : will be an astrologer, 
will be very much interested in gathering Sastraic knowledge, 
be very wise and will have plenty of food of his liking. 


Notes; Balabhadra denotes in his text fafa$r>TR*PJ 
which can broadly mean an astrologer par excellence. —_‘'This 
is strengthened as the combination occurs in the 4th honse, 
relating to learning. fafa also means a religious or sacred 
commandment and it can be more aptly interpreted that the 
native will be an expert in such field. Hence, he will be a 
ritualist. Thus, specific astrological excellence cannot be 
extracted from the combination based on the sloka. Such 
effect becoming possible is a different matter, and cannot be 
disputed. 


410. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have liking to learn 
about the Supreme Spirit, be devoid of sins, will speak truth, 
and will be known in royal circle. 


411. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will play musical 
instruments, will be very kind and will be bold in rendering 
to help others. 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN FOURTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 412 to 429) 


412. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be ignoble, 
be troubled by diseases of private parts, be ungrateful, will 
have prominent belly and be devoid of moustache. 


413. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus: — will be devoid of 
religious conduct, be interested in sexual affairs, be very sickly, 
will not trust others and be fickle-minded. 


414. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be highly 
greedy, will be patriotic, will lack courtesy (or harmony, 
cleverness etc. as the word etfasa means), and will always 
be devoid of wealth. 


72 Garga Hora 


Notes : According to Balabhadra's text, there is some 
difference. It on the whole reads that the native will have 
extreme greed, will be interested in his own physique and 
will be discourteous. 


415. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be interested 
in sword-fight, will reveal pride in face, be shameless and will 
lack masculine vigour. 


Note : Balabhadra's text speaks only valour in general 
and not masculine vigour. 


416. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will -act slowly 
after thinking properly, will have more enemies, will have 
beautiful hair and be devoid of efficacy. 


417.Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus: will be always sub- 
jected to troubles, be devoid of virtues, will belong to a low 
caste and will ‘“‘imprison’’ others. 


418. Sun-Mvuon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn —: will have many 
blemishes, will suffer from tuberculosis, be not splendorous 
and will lose friends. 


419. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn +: will have declined 
wealth due to many enemies, will always intend to make enmity 
and will be unkind. 


420. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn +: willbe devoid of 
wealth, will suffer grief on account of issue, will be very mean 
and_ fickleminded. 


421. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be very sickly 
will be troubled by kings, will always be subjected to grief and 
will have vices. 


422. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn: will experience 
much miseries, will have unafflicted limbs, will promote quarrels 
and be firm in blaming. 


423. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be discorded 


Fourth Bhava 73 


by Brahmins,’ will follow religious observations, will be inte- 
rested in bad acts and will always su!fer from penury. 


424. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will give up his 
own religion «nd follow that of others, will be devoid of good 
character and good disposition. 


425. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Jupiter : will be endowed 
with great happiness and great wealth, will talk tactfully, be 
not learned and will be dear to people. 

426. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be interest- 
ed in consecration, religious observations, bathing etc. will be 
of superior disposition and be expert in justice. 


427. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will.possess high 
splendour and sastraic wisdom, will bs honoured, be patient 
and will respect Gods and preceptors. 


428. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn —: will be very kind, 
be interested in sastras, be virtuous and wear Lapis Lazuli 
(i.e. cat's eye) ctc.* 


428a. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn, : will be with 
good men, will be great himself (qeaTa#aq), be courageous, be 
a poet and be amicable to relatives. 


429. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will be hon- 
oured by kings. 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN FOURTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 430 to 435) 


430. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will wear 
rags, be devoid of friendship, be very short-tempered, will 
have (more) daughters (than sons), and will always partake 
in an assembly. 


1. faSfa‘to should better be interpreted as ‘‘will be devoid 
of wise men's company "as fejr means : brahmin, sage 
or wise man. 

2. Balabhadra's text reads 48a yaanfu?g ataq meaning 
that the native will wear cat's eye, pearl and ruby. In 
fine, the native will wear such precious stones. 


74 Garga Hora 


431. Su1-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be 
very illusioned, will divert his mind to sinful acts, be ungrate- 
ful, shameless and lazy. 


432. Sim-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will like 
meat, will be interested in bad deeds, be wicked, and will not 
believe sastras. 


433. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will be happy, 
untruthful, troubled and will suffer miseries on account of his 
bad deeds. 


434. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will not be 
interested in tales, will be interested in very bad people, will be 
impatient-, and be averse to Vedas (instead of “being given up 
by Vedas", as found in the account given by C.G. Rajan). 


Notes : %atfagt4 can be interpreted as "not interested in 
conversation" rather than ''not interested in tales." 


435. Moon-Mars-Mercery-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will 
depend on many, will be interested in visiting shrines, be 
industrious will possess good qualities, be truthful and kind. 


Notes : That the native "will depend on many"' is out of 
question, as per the words of Balabhadra agata. "The word =a 
means famous, celebrated etc. and hence it should be deduced 
that the person will be very famous. 74 has further meanings 
viz. named, ascertained, heard etc. A popular meaning is of 
course Veda (42). 


EFFECTS OF 7 PLANETS IN FOURTH BHA VA 
(Sun to Saturn) 


435 a. Will be highly truthful, will eat quality food, be a 
king, be jealous and will honour his preceptors. 


6 


Fifth Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN FIFTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 436 to 455) 


436. Sun-Moon : will not be egoistic, will be hump-backed, 
be dejected, will have evil sons, will always be subjected to 
much miseries and will be of bad disposition. 


Notes: There is no mention of "not being egoistic" in 
Balabhadra’s text. It reads ‘fanatfaarta’ which means that the 
native will not have self-respect. afaata also means belief, 


concept, affection etc. and accordingly various suitable inter- 
pretations can be obtained. 


437. Sun-Mars : will have many sons and plurality of 
wives, will be accessible to enemies, be cruel, fearful and will 
always be interested in sins. 


438. Sun-Mercury : will be ‘interested in committing 
much sinful acts, will have all kinds of afflictions, be cruel, be 
forsaken by his wife and will be prone to evils. 


Notes : Thus, the yoga of Mercury and the Sun in the 
Ath is not congenial for a female to have a continued married 
life and she may face a "divorce" rather according to the mean- 
ing of the combination given above. 


439. Sun-Jupiter : will be devoid of knowledge of Vedas 
(sifa ataaeta), will eat others’ food, be attached to others' 
wives, be very hard in disposition and be devoid of good 
qualities. 


76 Garga Hora 


Notes : faat7q literally means Vedic text. For our 
purpose, it means that one with the Sun and Jupiter in Sth will 
be devoid of vedic learning, according to the text of of the 
sloka. 


440. Su1-Venus: will be bereft of good qualitics and 
vigour, will be miserable, conquered by enemies, will be troubl- 
ed by weakness, be disinterested in Sastras and will be of bad 
mentality. 


441. Sun-Saturn.: will sell articles, be grateful, interested 
in being Virtuous, will bc happy with wife and sons (qa7a% 
ateqq) and will be ever plentiful. 


Notes : “sTqfgar’ is additionaly found in Hora Ratna, 
which indicates that the native will have knowledge of metall- 
urgy or mineralogy. Further, mark that according to the rule, 
the Sun and Saturn, bitter enemies in conjuction in the Sth, 
an important house, are praised by sage Garga. This is highly 
suggestive a principle and should be put to proper practical 
analysis. 


442 Moon-Mars : will be very happy, be learned, and 
will believe in God and confide in preceptors. 


Notes : Additional information found in Hora Ratna in 
this respect is that the native will be intent on donating, be 
virtuous and be desirous of becoming famous (aaatwesa), 
or interested in Vedic learning. 


443. Moon-Mercury : will be honoured, be youthful in 
appearance fatinr eqq), will beget many sons, and will respect 
Gods and preceptors. 


444. Moon-Jupiter : will be wounded, be favourable to 
Sastras, be happy by nature, be a lord and will utter prayers 
in an undertone (#7). 

Notes : “fata .ateagqet’’ of Balabhadra should be divided 
as OT<F= wounded and qttaqet = favourabie to Sastras to make 


Fifth Bhava 77 


proper sense. For one who has the Moon and Jupiter in the 
Sth will always, in my belief, favour Sastras. qeia7q is the 
reading of Balabhadra's text (meaning ‘always successful’’) as 
against the word w= of Rajan's interpretation. 


445. Moon- Venus : will be endowed with treasures and 
wisdom, will always be happy, will have more daughters, and 
be dear to his wife. 


445 a. Moon-Saturn : will be devoid of issue and happines, 
be of wordly (material) disposition, be of bad mind, and will 
be rejected as per Sastraic terms. 


446. Mars-Mercury: will be modest, will incur losses due 
to illusion regarding agricultural, be cruel, be interested in 
living in foreign countries, and will adopt relatives and sons. 


447. Mars-Jupiter : Not available. 


448. Mars-Venus: will earn more enemies, be always 
insulted by mean people, be illusioned and will disrespect 
brahmins. 


449, Mars-Saturn : will have wounded limbs, be won 
over by ladies, be wicked, ungrateful, impatient and be not 
wealthy, 


450. Mercury-Jupiter : will have many sons, be desirous, 
of success, be dear to women (or wife), be pleasing in 
appearance, be dutiful and be not greedy. 


451. Mercury-Venus: will have auspicious speech (i.e. 
will be an eloquent speaker), be interested in surprising acts, 
be respectful to brahmins, be skilful, and be resolute. 


452. Mercury-Saturn : will have a defective limb, be not 
happy, be cruel and will be naturally inauspicious. 


Notes : If these two planets are together in the Sth, the 
native's wife will be a Kaka Vandhya, i.e. she will become 
barren after delivering one child; see my English translation 
of Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra, Ch 16, Sloka 6. 


78 Garga Hora 


453. Jupiter-Venus : will be very fortunate, be chief 
among his men, will have many sons, be wealthy and happy. 


' 454, Jupiter-Saturn : Will be very fortunate, be not good, 
be friendly to bad people, be interested in intoxicant drinks, 
will wear rags, be not praiseworthy, and will indulge in 
unholy acts. 


455. Venus-Saturn : will have daughters, will be addicted 
to females, will be interested in sinful tales, be ungrateful, be 
ugly and be not praiseworthy. 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN FIFTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 456-490) 


456. Sun-Moon-Mars : will be endowed with fame, be 
devoid of good deeds, will be of loathsome disposition, and 
will acquire physical deformity due to self-made activities. 


457. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be very sinful, be diprived 
of his property, be releived of his sons, be devoid of happiness, 
be won over by his wife and be fickle-minded. 


_ 458. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will be devoid of sons, be very 
valorous, be learned, will perform good deeds, be very kind, 
and will not be friendly. 


_ 459. Sun-Moon-Venus : will not have good qualities, 
will be interested in others' money, will have more enemies, 
and be without kindness and patience. 


460. Sun-Moon-Saturn : will be devoid of wealth, mental 
worries and fear, will create nuisance to the people in the 
world,} will be addicted to vices, will be endowed with sons, 
and be not favourable to relatives. 


461. Sun-Mars-Mercury: will be troubled by severe 
wounds, be devoid of friendship, will be kind, poor, will be 


1. sodtaatte is the text of Balabhadra, which means deceitful 
whereas C.G. Rajan has an account that the native will be 
a nuisance to the people in the world. His basis, in ‘this 
context, is doubtful. 


Fifth Bhava 79 


bereft of freedom (be dejected as per Balabhadra), and can 
guess (others') matters. 


462. Sun-Mars-Jupiter: will accompany base people, be 
very sinful, be disabled, dejected, unable to donate (or help), 
will hate his wife! and be devoid of manliness. 


463. Sun-Mars-Venus +: will be devoid of ornaments, will 
eat much, will hate people and will be refused by them, and 
will be hard-hearted. .- 3 

464. Sun-Mars-Saturn : will have sinful sons and daughters, 
will not be materialistic, will have sons bereft of education, 
and will hate good people. 


465. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : will have sinful sons, will be 
given to anger, be impotent, be very sinful, will respect 
brahmins, be miserable and will have miserable friends. 


466. Sun-Mercury-Venus : will have barren daughter; 
be ungrateful, will have many wives, be subjected to grief, 
be sinful and be bereft of happiness, money and food. 

467. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will not have children and 
money, will have prominent belly, prominent buttocks, long 
knees and small feet. 

468. Sun-Jupiter- Venus : will be uncharitably disposed, 
. will cheat others, be cunning, will indulge in jugglery and 
will be prone to hurt by arrows (weapons, bullets etc. in the 
context of today). 


469. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn : will be forsaken by his relatives, 
be troubled by poverty, be interested in quarrels, and be 
fearless. 


470. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will not be courageous, will be 
wicked, be a dunce and be interested in foreign countries. 


1. According to Balabhadra's. text, the native will have a 
dejected wife and it is not that the native will hate his 
wife. . 

2. Balabhadra's text reads “q1z fa*far*"' meaning that the 
native will not have feet. 


80 Garga Hora 


471. Moon-Mars-Mercury : will not 'be bold, be not 
masculine, will not have charitable mind, be interested in 
gambling and sexual pleasures. 

472. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be timid, be wealthy, be 
short-tempered, will spend in bad ways, be attached to his 
relatives, be not wise and be very proud. 

473. Moon-Mars-Venus : will be in the company of base 
people, be not beautiful, will sutler from rheumatic pains, 
be not famous, and will be rejected by people. 

. 474. Moon-Mars-Saturn +: will be untruthful, be not 
wealthy, be not happy, will sleep much, will have ugly friends, 
be wicked and fearless. 


475. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be interested in visiting 
shrines, will have good qualities, be virtuous and will respect 
his parents. ; 


476. Moon-Mercury-Venus : will have stout limbs, will not 
be greedy, will be attached to others, will be relieved of sins 
by visiting shrines, and will be worthy. 


477. Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be meritorious, famous, 
firm and charitable, will have knowledge of arts and be devoid 
of desires. 


478. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will' have pleasing voice, will 
have hair touching the foreface, be charitable, be devoid of 
enemies, and will have pleasing looks. 


Notes : These three planets in the 3rd house (voice) for 
Aries, Taurus, Leo, Libra and Pisces give a mellifluous voice 
and can make the native a famous singer. 


479. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be wise and famous, will 
be an expert poet, be devoid of enemies, be very happy, be of 
good disposition and will have beautiful face. 


480. Moon-Venus-Saturn : will have good qualities and 
good nature, will be an astrologer, will maintain his physique 
beautifully, will be lustful (aaif-aq) and interested in listen- 
ing to religiousaccounts. 


Fifth Bhava SI 


Notes : The text of Balabhadra reads: <7’ firefan* 
which means that the body of the native will not have (good) 
hue whereas C.G. Rajan has a different account, stating that 
the native will maintain his physique beautifully. 


481. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will hold the ‘‘flag of charity” 
aloft (i.e. will be highly charitable and will say ““no" to none 
as Karna of Maha Bharata), will be truthful and will maintain 


only truth, will be very intelligent, be bashful, enthusiastic, 
and courageous. 


482. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be bestowed with luck, 
will be devoid of mental peace, be charitable, be favourable 
to good people, and endowed with gold, robes and ornaments. 


483. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will not have wife, be unkind, 
will not possess good qualities and will be with relatives. 


484. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will have good disposition, 
will be endowed with thin clothes and ornaments, will be an 
acknowledged person and will conquer enemies. 


485. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn: will be kind, will know 
business tactics, will have knowledge of Vedas, will be friendly 
to good people, be patient and will respect God and teachers. 


486. Mars- Venus-Saturn : will be wicked, be shameless, 
be unjust, will forsake his wife and will be very proud. 


487. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be endowed’ with 
precious stones, will respect brahmins, will have knowledge 
of many Sastras, and will make his own place as heavens.’ 


488. Mercury-Venus-Sarurn : will respect teachers, will 
learn great things, will be chief in his lineage and will attain 
good friends. 


489. Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be bereft of children, 
will have fat body, fat neck, fat shoulders, and _ thin ears, will 
gamble and cheat others. 


490. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn . will possess highly good 


1. ‘“‘will attain heavens" is the meaning of Balabhadra's text. 


82 Garga Hora 


qualities, will be endowed with corns, will live in others' 
houses and be interested in learning Sastras. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN FIFTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 491 to 524) 
491. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will blame the dearest, 


will be against his elders, will be unprincipled, be shameless 
and be of bad disposition. 


492. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will. be bereft of sons; be 
immodest, indigent and be devoid of kindness and virtues. 


493. Sun-Moon Mars-Venus : will have long penis, itchy 
thighs, be poor and interested in others* wives. 


494, Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will be ungrateful, be 
happy, will enjoy authority, will have mean profession, and 
be devoid relatives. 


Notes : guj fa«PI‘ JT is the reading in Hora Ratna, which 
indicates that the native will have happiness (gq) and authority 
(afasrz). The latter can be treated independently without 
contradicting "mean profession" fiffrl gf), for one canenjoy 
authority although he takes to menial earnings. fadtfsarg 
is an addition in Hora Ratna’s text which denotes that the 
native will have afflicted physique. 


495. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be very happy, 
will be subjected to sexual pressure, and belongs to noble 
lineage, but will be unjust. 


496. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be a tale-bearer, 
will give up his religion and will hate the virtuous. 


497. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn — : will be unkind; unintelli- 
gible, be not proud, will possess ornaments, and be in the 
company of sinners. 


498. Sun-Moon-Jupiter- Venus : will be interested in 
chariots (i.e. conveyances), be immodest, and will like bathing 
with application of scents etc. (i.e. the native will enjoy 


Fifth Bhava 83 


rich bathing conveniences like modern appliances, costly soaps, 
oils, cream etc.) 


499, Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be happy, will make 
futile efforts, be devoid of friends and sons, be dear and will 
perform wicked acts. 


500. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will not be splendorous, 
will perform condemnable acts, will have vary mean profession, 
and be highly ill-tempered. 


Notes : The native can be meaningfully understood to be 
an unsocial elements indulging in unlawful activities. 


S01. Sut-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will give up his duties, 
be unjust, dull, indolent, and will like ugly pepole. 


502. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be bereft of strength, 
be a thief, be interested in sexual stories, will serve others 
and be devoid of courage. 


503. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be miserable’ on 
account of wounds, be not virtuous, and will always perform 
against Sastras. 


504. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will have revolutionary 
thinking, will be troubled by serious diseases, will not have 
intelligence, be not virtuous and be without ears. 


Notes : There is some difference here when compared to 
Balabhadra, where it reads Sa% CT*n*q meaning "false nature”’ 
or "pretentious" as against "lack of intelligence" as above. 
Another clarification is with respect to "having no ears". 
Balabhadra's text reads : 4fq 1 fasfa* which denotes lack of 
hearing. safer of course means ears. The native, it should be 
interpreted, will have the ears physically but will be short of 
hearing or will lack hearing. This is rather a suitable meaning 
of the combination, denoting deafness, as against a_ theoretical 
meaning of having no ears. However, in some practical cases, 
one's ear (outer ear) may have to be removed surgically and 
in such situation, this can be applied. 


atfq also means Vedic or holy learning. And sucha 


84 Garga Hora 


native may not be initiated into scuh learning with this 
combination. 

505. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will. have defective arm, 
will not be interested in materials donated for performance of 
shanti etc. and be subjected to vices. 

Notes + Wasaga area faatorany is Balabhadra's 
reading. This should be interpreted that the native will be 
devoid of quadrupeds (7gsqT<), clothes (aT=q@z4), vessels 
(arsr7) and wealth (st) (aor has other meanings like repo- 
sitory, a fit person etc., out of our context). In fine, the native 
will not be endowed with quadrupeds like cows etc., will not 
have quality robes, will not have good vessels (i.e. to cook 
food) and will be devoid of wealth. 


506. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be infamous, be 
not efficacious, be in the company of sinners, and be hasty. 

507. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will perform — blame- 
worthy acts, will be interested in bad females and in serving 
bad people, be not famous, be unkind, and will hate 
Brahmins. 

508. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn will be devoid of interest 
in meritorious acts, will not be intelligent, be interested in 
studying unworthy books and be impartial. 

509. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be insulted’ by 
others, will wear rags, will be impure, will have untimely food 
and will be troubled by poverty at all times. 

510. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Mercurywill be wise, ‘learned, 
interested in Vedas etc., will conquer his enemies, and will be 
of friendly disposition. 


511. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be fortunate, 
learned, modest, and will be skilful’. 


512. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn will be immodest, will 
be interested in his own religion, will be courageous, charitable 


and highly respectable. 


1. "Conscientious" as per Bala Bhadra. 


— 


Fifth Bhava 85 


513. Moon-Mars-Jupiter- Venus : will have wounds 
(itches etc.), will protect brahmins, be of good qualities, and 
be famous for self respect. 


514. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus: will like cold things, 
will know the meaning of various sastras, will be proud, be a 
poet and be liked by people. 

Notes : aflaaig7y is the reading in Balabhadra's text as 
against ''will like cold things'' of C.G. Rajan. The Sanskrit 
text, however, means that the native will be rich with pearls for 
sta means pearls. Another possible interpretation is that the 
native will be predominantly of unanimated temperament. Yet 
another meaning is the native will not be responsive to sex. 
For 3taa has all these meanings. 


If Mars applies his influence to Venus first, then the 
native's mind (Sth house) will have violent response to sex 
and thus he cannot be irresponsive to sex. If Jupiter applies 
first, being in the closest orb, to Venus, then the native's sexual 
temperament is softened and refined. Should this combination 
occur in a house of Saturn or Mercury, it leaves a chance of 
having less or lack of response to sex. Should the Moon have 
a predominant hand in the combination and be well placed 
with effective influences from Venus and Jupiter, the native can 


possess rich pearls, for the Moon rules pearls among Nava 
Ratnas. 


515. Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn +: will help ‘people, will 


befriend many, will have various ornaments, be patient, and 
will be connected with religious activities. 


Notes : agg is an addition in Balabhadra's text which 
denotes that the native will be plentiful i.e. rich in all respects. 
wafaurazat is the reading in his text (as against Rajan's_ men 
tion of “connected with religious actives' which is of course 
broadly correct). The idea of Balbhadra is that the native will 
be expert in legal precepts or injunctions. 

516. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : willbe endowed with 
sons and wealth, wiil be rich with application of sandal, saffron 


86 Garga Hora 


etc. and robes and ornaments, will have abundunt riches and 
will enjoy happiness through children. 


517. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will uphold truth, 
be modest, will be very charitable and be honoured by the 
learned. 


518. Moor-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be broad minded 
(fagita arsq), will conquer his Five Senses, will like cleanli- 
ness, be good-looking, be endowed with fortune and courage 
and be not greedy (aq). 


519. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Sat urn : will be worshipped by 
kings, will be interested in Sastras and religion, and be endowed 
with sons and wealth. 


520. Mars-Merecury-Jupiter-Venus : will have knowledge 
of the Supreme Spirit, will have satisficd mind, and be dear to 
king. 

521. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturit : will have beautiful 


body, be free from desires, will have (good) principles, be chief 
in his lineage, be intelligent and pure. 


Notes : The influence lent by Saturn and Jupiter to the 
other two, if strong, can free the Native from (material) desires 
and thus bestow tranquility of mind. 


522. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be broad minded 
(faarra ars), will observe virtues, be expert in father's assign- 
ments, be patient, and will! like all people. 


523. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn: will be good in arts, 
will know the meanings of Vedas, will have quadrupeds, be 
very pure and famous. 


524. Mercur y-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn, : Not available in 
Rajan's text. He quotes in general context that these four in 
any house will give abundant wealth, learning and virtues. 


Notes: However, Balabhadra's text has a_ different 
account. It gives the effects of Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn 
joining in the 5th as given by us, vide rule 523 for Mars-Jupiter- 


Fifth Bhava 87 


Venus-Saturn and gives a different concept for Mars-Jupiter- 
Venus-Saturn joining in Sth thus: will have gains, will like 
good people and will be respectful to Gods, Vedas and brah- 
mins. (as against what we have given under rule 523). 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN FIFTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 525 to 545) 


525. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will have ugly 
and dirty physique, will be endowed with children and suffer 
from many blemishes. 


526. Suit-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus  : will be sexually 
passionate, will have knowledge of mathematics and will be 
troubled by serious diseases. 


527. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn  : will be a eunuch, 
will have no knowledge of letters (i.e. illiterate), be devoid of 
of vedic and sastraic learning, be hard-hearted and _ be not 
virtuous. 


Notes : aaf apart from meaning a letter or character, can 
also mean race, caste, quality etc. and: qajgyacan be severally 
understood. 


528. Sun-Mars-Mars-Jupiter- Venus : be devoid of Lakshmi 
(frat fajfta*), be very short-tempered, will wander in vain and 
will possess relatives. 


529. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be interested 
in befriending bad people, will have external show or courtesy 
(saalearz), will not have good history and be bereft of truth 
and honour. 


530. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be devoid of 
relatives, sons, wealth and happiness, be interested in gambling 
and _ be enimical. 


531. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will have a 
wife bereft of good character, will be forsaken by his relatives, 
will be perished by Gods and Brahmins and be impatient. 


532. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be of bad 


88 Garga Hora 


disposition, be forsaken by his relatives and will be inimically 
disposed to good people. 


533. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will spend on 
bad deeds, will have self-made evils, will be troubled by expen- 
ses, be unkind and be interested in sinful acts. 


Notes : Wasaayq 1s an additionin Hora Ratna, denoting 
that the native will b:2 interested in liquors. yfq@ also means 
kissing (on the lip). 


534. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be devoid of 
wealth, sons, honour and splendour and be subjected to misery. 


535. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will suffer from 
marital blemish, be sick and timid will make futile efforts. 


536. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be a dunce, be 
forsaken by his wife, will be of pleased disposition and will fear 
war or quarrels. 


537. Sun- Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturni : will be shameless, 
will win over good people, wi!l lose his father, be a drunkard 
and be ungrateful. 


Notes : Hora Ratna's text has no reference to father, 
but adds 7af#ta meaning that the native will lose his wealth. 
qrqt may be referred to wayaeay under rule 533 supra. 


538. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will suffer from 
diseases of head, will have wounds on the body, and be devoid 
of wealth and honour. 


539. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn —: will suffer from 
diseases of eye, be given to severe anger, be ugly and will 
always wear rags. 


540. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will not be 
enthusiastic, be very wicked and will face evils by unnecessary 
talks. 


541. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn , will be very 
valorous, be free from vices, be a lord, be respectable, will be 
endowed with sons and wealth, will conquer his Five Senses 
and be famous. 


Fifth Bhava 89 


542. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : Not available, 
C.G. Rajan in a general context states that the native will be 
an expert in minerals, mercury and watcr equipment and will 
become famous in such dealings. 


543. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn —: will be wicked, 
be beyond assessment, will have abundant wealth, and be 
affectionate to h s children. 


544. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will be widely 
famous, be chief among his relatives and race-men, be modest, 
will be endowed with ornaments, and will control his mind 
greatly. 


545. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn +: will be an 
eloquent speaker, be modest, and be endowed with mercy, 
charitability and truth. 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETSIN FIFTHBHA VA 
(From Rule 546 to 552) 


546. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be 
subjected to penury and grief, be mean minded, be of thievin g 
disposition and be rash in speech. 


547. Sun-Mvon- Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be chief in his 
race, be inimically disposed to the public, will possess much 
distressed a body and be forsaken by his relatives. 


548. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury Venus-Saturn : will honour 
guests, will have broad and beautiful eyes, will practise penance 
and be justly disposed. 


549. Sun-Moon- Mars-Jupiter-Venus Saturn: will be devoid 
of kindness, will live in foreign places and will be able to guess 
others’ mind. 


550. Sunt-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturi : will be 
cruel, wicked, be devoid of wicked people's company and be 
attached to sons, friends and meritorious acts. 


90 Garga Hora 


551. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will not be 
efficacious, will hate women, will lose wealth, and will be 
honoured by enemies (.¢. will not be troubled by them). 


552. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn +: will be 
highly interested in the Supremo Spirit, be chief, wealthy and 
amiable to relatives. 


EFFECTS OF 7 PLANETS IN FIFTH BIA VA 


553. Su-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn —: will 
be interested in the knowledge of the Supreme Spirit, be dear 
to his relatives, be happy, skilful in all arts and be a head. 


Notes : Hora Ratna states that the native will be happy, 
skilful in arts, very learned and be generally an expert. 


Sixth Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN THE SIXTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 554 to 574) 


554. Sun-Moon : will have ugly face, be poor, short lived, 
will suffer from diseases, will always have desires and will be 
free from enemies. 


555. Sun-Mars:. will be ‘highly intelligent, will destroy 
enemies, will attain success in war, and will enjoy wide fame. 


556. Sun-Mercury : will be endowed with great riches, 
be famous for his abundant wealth, be fearless and dear to 
king. 

5357. Sun-Jupiter : will be sickly disposed, short-lived, will 
have more enemies and be devoid of friends. 


558. Sun-Venus: will be troubled by serious diseases, 
be shameless, be devoid of wealth, be ugly, ‘subjected to utter 
misery, and will be worried. 

559. Sun-Saturn : will be free from sickness and sins, will 
be very wise, be.endowed with weapons and wealth, will have 
servants and will be of good nature. 


Notes: The above indicates, that these two planets in 
the 6th though mutually inimical, can prove a help to the 
native. If one of them is exalted, it is still good. Even one of 
them being in own house can give good results. For example, 
for Leo ascendant, the Sun and Saturn in Capricorn in the 
6th will prove quite auspicious. Conversely, if one of them be 
in fall, the situation will change. 


92 Garga Hora 


560. Moon-Mars : will be troubled by diseases, will lose 


his intellect, be splendorous, be unfortunate, and _ will face 
killing (be killed) and be imprisoned, 


Notes : 74 apart from meaning killing, slaughtering 
etc. also means’ paralysis. These two planets together in the 
6th are capable of causing paralytic attack. aq tf4r uray 
can mean, as well, that the native will be killed or imprisoned. 


Thus, this combination can cause punishments like imprison- 
ment, hanging etc. 


561. Moon-Mercury : will be forsaken by the people of 
his race and by his relatives, will not be rich, will have a bad 
wife, be timid and cunning. 


562. Moon-Jupiter : will be devoid of intelligence and 
long life, will develop defects in limbs due to sickness, and 
be devoid of desires and good qualities. 


563. Moon-Venus : will have an accomplished physique 
(sama), will be defeated by enemies, be interested in sinful 


acts, will have balanced expenditure, and will have bad 
character. 


564. Moon-Saturn . will have bad mentality, be timid, 


unintelligent, will have a distressed body, be ugly and be 
devoid of sexual desires. 


565. Mars-Mercury : Same results fas given for Moon- 


Saturn vide rule 564 above. Both C.G. Rajan and Balabhadra 
give So. 


566. Mars-Jupiter :3.vill have few sons, be of wicked 
disposition, be insulted by others, will not observe any religious 
conduct, be uncharitab'e and intent upon promoting quarrels. 


567. Mars-Venus : will be interested in women, be con- 
quered by women, be interested in sinful acts, be intelligent, 
wicked and will not possess sastraic learning. 


568. Mars-Saturn :3 will have firm mental disposition, 
will have hard (strong) limbs, will conquer his enemies, be 
pert in moral merits. 


Sixth Bhava 93 


Notes : This position is favourable to attain success in 
litigations. The native will be possibly frce from sickness 
debts etc. 


569. Mercury-Jupiter : will be lazy, devoid of intelligence, 
troubled by kings, wealthy and interested in sexual acts. 


570. Mercury- Venus : will have many conveyances, be 
happy, very valorous, dear to people, liked by women and be 
highly skilful. 

571. Mercury-Saturn : will have many enemies, be sickly 


disposed, be devoid of strength and will like others but not 
his own men. 


572. Jupiter-Venus : will be interested in sexual acts, be 
fickle-minded ‘about ladies, be addicted to liquor, be ungrateful, 
sinful and will cheat. 


573. Jupiter-Saturn : will be forsaken by wife, be sick, be 
devoid of truth and wealth, be interested in unethical deeds and 
be always miserable. 


574. Venus-Saturn : will be very valorous, will be endowed 
with wealth, fortune and happiness, will have strength (or 
perfection) of all limbs and will destroy enemies. 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN SIXTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 575 to 609) 


575. Sun-Moon-Mars : will be of mean disposition, will 
have ugly mentality, be troubled by diseases, will cheat others, 
be unkind, and will be in the company of bad people. 


376. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be sinful, given to anger, 
will have disloyal servants, be devoid of wealth and grains, will 
fear and be truthless. 


577. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will experience various miseries, 
will be forsaken by children, wife and servants, will have mean 
profession and have no wealth. 


578. Sun-Moon-Venus : will be mean, strong, egoistic, 
of ugly mentality, devoid of affection. 


94 Garga Hora 


579. Sun-Moon-Saturn ; will be sinful, be not attached 
to people, will have hard legs, be fearful and hasty. 


Notes : See notes under Rule 580, (for fraatafad) aq). 


580. Sui-Mars-Mercury : be sinful, not attached to 
people, will have various kinds of wealth, will conquer his 
enemies, w]l] have many friends and be devoid of war (quarrel) 
etc. 


Notes ; faq>=ftefffa*J is the reading in Balabhadra's text 
which denotes that the native will be bereft of beloved. people, 
i.e. his people will not be affectionate to him instead of that he 
will not be attached to (his) people. Same is the case with 
Rule 579 also. 


581. Sunt-Mars-Jupiter : will’ be brave, be interested in 
sastras, will conquer his five senses. 


582. Sun-Mars-Venus : will. have various kinds of happi- 
ness, be dear to women, be expert in always enjoying sexual 
pleasures, be very rich and just. 


583. Sun-Mars-Saturn : will enjoy landed property, will. 
have pure body (i.e. defectless body), will possess horses, 
elephants and wealth, be very skilful, and will do meritorious 
acts. 


584. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter - will be sensuous, be interested 
in acts of blemish, will not have religious faith, be bereft of 
good nature and mercy and will cheat. 


585. Sun-Mercury-Venus : will experience various kinds 
of blemishes, be very hard-hearted and be devoid of truth, 
Mercy, shame and intelligence. 


586. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will be bereft of. beauty (good 
appearance), sons and wife, will always perform evil acts, be 
fearful’ in appearance, be exceedingly in temperament, and be 
a skilful speaker. 


587. Sun-Jupiter-Venus ;: will be exceedingly greedy, will 
possess gold, robes and ornaments, be ugly in appearance, and 
will be devoid of intelligence. 


Sixth Bhava 95 


588. Sun Jupiter-Saturn : will be clever in performance, 
will be interested in singing, w 11 have several enjoyments, and 
be interested in digging tanks and wells. 


Notes : fa‘: apart from meaning clever also means 
crafty or cunning. If Saturn is predominantly influential in 
the yoga, the native will be cunning in his acts while he will be 
clever in his acts with a stronger Jupiter. 


tftr also means carnal pleasures, apart from meaning 
enjoyments in general. The word still can severally be inter- 
preted as wealth, income, profit, wages earned as a prostitute, 
etc. Thus, the word has to be cautiously interpreted. A 
woman with these 3 planets in the 6th, for example for Mesha, 
where Saturn is the lord of the lth and Jupiter of the 12th, can 
give her earnings out of her flesh. In this case the Sun is the 
lord of the Sth, (chastity) which lends a_ helping hand to 
the adversity. If Saturn rules the;7th and be in the 6th, with 
the other two, the native may derive carnal pleasures only 
for the sake of pleasure. Much wealth or income can be 
expected if one of these be owning the 2nd or Ilth and be in 
the 6th with powerful Dhana yogas. These three can give an 
efficacious monetary lift to the native, if one of them is 
exalted, i.e. Lagna being in Taurus (6th house will hold 
exalted Saturn), or Aquarius (6th house holding exalted Jupiter) 
or last in the order being in Scorpio (6th house holding exalted 
Sun and simultaneously fallen Saturn). 


Digging of tanks etc. are meant for public welfare and 
is considered an act of charity. When these 3 are so placed in 
the 6th while the Moon is in a watery sign, the subject will be 
inclined more to undertake such public welfare measures. 


589. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will be dear to good people, 
will be an eloquent speaker, be interested in sastras, be skilful, 
be highly learned, and will have knowledge of sastras. 


590. Moon-—Mars-Mercury : will experience various 
measures of miseries, be untruthful, be inteligent, will eat 
other's food, and be able to guess about others' mind. 


591. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be devoid of truth and 


96 Garga Hora 


wealth, will be very much wounded because of enmity, will 
lose courage and will be devoid of lordship. (#431 indicates 


lordship, authority, mastery, ascendancy etc. indicating that 
the native will not rise in life but remain in lower rungs.) 


592. Moon-Mars-Venus : will be ‘poor, be bereft of 
relatives, will have the nature to remain pleased, be dear to 
his workmen, and be troubled by the three temperaments, 
1.¢e. wind, phlegm and bile. 


593. Moon-Mars-Saturn ; will experience of loss of 
children, will go for enmity, will have injured body. will have 
desires, be d2feited and iistless towards Sastras. 


594. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be short-lived, dis- 
tressed, devoid of sastraic learning, interested in blaming 
others, and be an atheist. 


595. Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be subjected to various 
diseases, be little efficacious, be bereft of wife, and be always 
troubled by poverty. 


596. Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be troubled by miseries, 
will possess (more) sexual desires, be not interested in helping 
Others, be not virtuous and be poor. 


597. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be naturally a sinner, 
will lose money on account of religious observances, will become 
infamous, be very mean and be blamed by relatives. 


598. Mvon- Jupiter-Saturn : will be bereft of intelligence, 
be very miserable, cruel, cunning and devoid of self-respect. 


599. Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be very miserable, be 
devoid of wisdom, learning and modesty, and be troubled. 


600. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter: will be courageous, will 
conquer his enemis, will not be mean-minded, i.e. broad 
minded (az way), will hold the flag of virtue aloft, and be 
sinless. 


601. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will speak truth, will be of 
good disposition, will possess gold, precious stones, land and 
sastraic wisdom. 


Sixth Bhava 97 


602. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will have various kinds of 
enjoymets, will control his five senses, be wealthy, very beauti- 
ful, attached to his wife, and will blame others. 


603. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will have good conduct, be 
dear to people will possess high degree of knowledge of sastras, 
be justly disposed and will be liked by many. 


604. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be sick, be bereft of 
parents (i.e. will lose them early), be fiercely disposed, be 
interested: in sinful acts and be subjected to blemishes. 


605. Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be kindly disposed, be dear 
to women, be interested. in others’ jobs, will follow good 
people and be virtuous. 


606. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : Not available. 


Note : The said conjunction will make one conquer 
enemies, famous, valorous and influencial, in general. 


607. Mercury-Jupitcr-Saturn : will have no sons, will be 
fettered, will be black complexioned, will wear rags, will be 
devoid of good history and will be against justice. 


608. Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be very poor, be not 
valorous, and will hate satstras, preceptors and Brahmins. 


609. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have an_ emaciated 


body, be unkind, unjust, poor and over-anxious and will 
dislike the virtuous. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN SIXTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 610 to 644) 


610. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will always have a distre- 
ssed mind, will make futile efforts, will experience sickness and 
fear, will have ugly eyes and wicked mind. 


611. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will have big teeth, big eyes 
and big nose, be shameless and will always be filled with 
fear. 


612. Sun-Moon-Mars- Venus : will have a clean physique, 


98 Garga Hota 


be devoid of vedic learning, be fettered, over-anxious and 
harsh in speech. 


613. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will have injured limbs, be 
troubled, be not splendorous, will cheat others, be restless 
(Tt) and will be won over by the fair sex. 


614. Sut-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter  : will be a eunuch, dunce, 
simpleton, be very timid and be insulted by one and _ all. 


615. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus : will” suffer contortion on 
account of various diseases, be interested in others’ food, and 
will have little friendship. 


616. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn —: will be interested in bad 
deeds and untruth. will invite risks and be a simpleton. 


617. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will not be famous, be 
interested in others' wives, will be very unkind and will 
cheat others. 


618. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn: will have an emaciated 
body, will join foolish persons, will be fettered or killed, will 
have mean profession and will be of very bad disposition. 


619. Sun-Moon- Venus-Saturn : will indulge in bad acts, 
be devoid of honour of Gods, preceptors and brahmins, be 
insulted by others and be hard-hearted. 

620. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will destroy his enemies, 
be courageous, skilful in speech, worshipped by the king, 
interested in good qualities, and will be endowed with 
intelligence. 


Notes : The native will be of truthful disposition, as 
Additionally stated in Hora Ratna. 


621. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus: will be very kind, will 
have an equally grown up physique, be an eloquent speaker, 
be courageous and dear to Brahmins. 


622. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn —: will be dear to virtuous, 
courageous, conceit-manifested (Hatfasmaq), fierce in appea- 
rance, happily disposed and dear to all. 


Sixth Bhava 99 


623. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will have agriculture as 
chief profession, be principled, will be a good consultant on 
Mantras and be dear to king. 


624. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be of wicked disposi- 
tion, be dear to his men, and will be endowed with splendour 
and fame. 


625. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn —:.will be:skilful, will join an 
assembly of skilful men, be famous, amicable to elders, and 
will always be interested in meritorious acts. 


626. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be principal among 
intelligent people, will conquer his enemies, will possess a 
beautiful body and will be sweetly disposed. 


Note: "will be fortunate" is an addition in Hora 
Ratna. 


627. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will have noble notions, 
be not intelligent, will have sastraic knowledge, fame and 
conveyances. 


628. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will visit shrines, will 
be vary anxious, be dear to good people and interested in 
learning. 

629. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be highly intelligent, 
will be capable of bestowing (or giving away freely) (anything 
asked for like the Divine Kalpa Tree), be skilful, very effica- 
cious, and be well placed. 


630. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be highly learned, 
be interested In women, will possess wealth and be justly 
disposed. 


631. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be devoid of wealth 
be defective limbed, and attached to people. 


632. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be troubled by 
sickness, be interested in living in foreign countries, will have 
wicked disposition, be sexually troubled and will have an 
emaciated body. 


633. Moon-Mars-Mercury- ‘Venus : will be' devoid of 
kindness, be of hard disposition, and be averse to Sastras. 


100 Garga Hora 


634. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be subjected to 
penury, be devoid of pleasures, will always have enemies, be 
bad and fickle-minded. 


635. Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn :will be untruthful, be 
excessively windy in temperament, will be in the company of 
bad people, be unkind, and hard-hearted. 


636. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be short-lived, 
will be physically troubled, be shameless, and be intent on 
committing sinful acts. 


637. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be of bad 
nature, be interested in religious ‘principles, be of cunning dis- 
position and will hate his teacher. 


638. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will depend on others, 
be wickedly disposed, forsaken by his wife, hard hearted and 
commit sins. 


639. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will deserve-hatred be, 
cruel, devoid of son and wife, will follow his promise (ary = 
promise, 712t4 = follow, resort), and will be troubled by sexual 
feelings. 


640. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will ‘be sportive in 
spirit, pleasing to eyes (i.e. good-looking), dear to king and 
proudly disposed. (Hora Ratna of Balabhadra). 


641. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn ; will be broad minded, 
be pleasing to eyes, dear to king, proud, unkind, and virtuous. 


642. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will worship Fire God, 
will be interested in sacrifices, observances and worships, and 
will earn merits by visiting shrines. 

643. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be courageous, be 


a skilful astrologer, and will be famous in performing religious 
sacrifices. 


644. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be charitable, . 
dirty, in disposition and will be conquered by females. 


Sixth Bhava 101 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN SIXTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 645 to 665) 


645. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter +: will be ugly, 
immodest, will be troubled by others and will cheat others. 


646. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury- Venus : will be highly short- 
tempered, be a top-class tale-bearer,and a thief, be ungrateful, 
be interested infmaking enemies and be miserable. 


647. Sun-Mooi-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will suffer from 
venereal diseases,*will steal, and be averse to good people. 


648. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus: will be interested 
in bad deeds, will lose wealth will have knowledge of Tantras 
and will suffer from diseases of mouth or face (azaIftgxy). 


649. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn. will have diseases 
of head, will suffer from fever (i. e. serious fevers), be not wise 
and_be very ugly. 


650. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be devoid of 
courage, be a dunce and be bereft of wisdom and _ learning. 


651. Sun-Moon- Vercury-Jupiter-Venus °: will be devoid of 
splendour, be not out-spoken, be devoid of wealth, and be 
interested in meritorious acts. 


652. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will wear rags, 
will suffer from mental distress, will be wounded, be not 
truthful, be disabled and indigent. 


653. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn — : will be hard-hear- 


ted, sinful. cruel, will violate people and will not be successful 
in his undertakings. 


654 Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be devoid of 
wealth sons, and principles and will {be conquered by base 
persons. 


655. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus —: will be devoid of 


kindness, will have prodigal sons, be distressed, and subjected 
to diseases. 


102 Garga Hora 


656. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be shameles, 
unkind, will join base men and will acquire diseases. 

657. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn :.will- be troubled 
by wounds, be devoid of truth and purity, be not of good 
nature and be diseased. 


658. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be hated by 
by people, be devoid of self-respect, be a simpleton, be 
interested in bad acts and devoid of conduct. 


659, Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Sat urn: will be devoid of 
sons, be interested in others’ women, be very poor and 
cruel. 


660. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be:-free from 
diseases, be of dirty disposition, be libidinous and be not 
virtuous. 


661. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will suffer from 
strangary (painful discharge of urine), be ‘bereft of wife, 
be dirty and lazy. 

662. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn — : will be mentally 
distressed right ;from birth, will have surprising windy 
diseases (i.e. difficult to be cured), be ungrateful and unprinci- 
pled. 

663. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be forsaken 
by people, be interested in others' wives, be sinful and intent 
upon living in other countries. 

664. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have more 
enemies, be devoid of son and wife, be interested in money 
and be lazy. 

665. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be bereft 
of Sastraic learning,’ sons and wealth, and be forsaken by 
all. 

EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN SIXTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 666 to 672) 

666. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will have 
trembling hands and legs, will do base deeds, be fearful and 
conquered by enemies. 


Sixth Bhava 1 103 


667. Sun-Moon-Mars Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be very 
miserable, be a drunkard, be devoid of shoulders (i.e. drooped 
etc.), and will not have robes and ornaments. 


668. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury- Venus-Saturn : will not be 
splendorous, be ill-natured and be unprincipled. 


669. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will not be 
patient, will cheat, be sick and be conquered by wicked 
people. 


670. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will 
be of crooked disposition, be unkind, be very poor, be devoid 
of wife and relatives and will destroy the king (i.e. will prove 
ominous to the king). 


671. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn :Both C.G. 
Rajan‘and Balabhadra have not given the relative effects. 
However, Rajan says that the native with these planets in 
conjunction, (without reference to a bhava) will be of wande- 
ring disposition and be highly intelligent. 


672. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be of 
wicked disposition, be immodest, will wander unfruitfully and 
be bereft of self-respect. 


EFFECTS OF 7 PLANETS IN SIXTH BHA VA 


673. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will 
be truthful, just, virtuous, skilful, wealthy and famous. 


8 


Seventh Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN SEVENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 674 to 694) 


674. Sun-Moon : will be distressed, be hasty, not virtuous 
and highly cunning. 


675. Sun-Mars : will be interested in others’ wives, be not 
charitable, be broubled by hunger, attached to preceptors and 
brahmins and be cruel. 


676. Sun-Mercury : will have an insincere wife, will be a 
eunuch, be devoid of sexual happiness, be unfruitful (not 
result manifesting), and be endowed with relatives. 


Notes: The Sun-Mercury cumbination in the 7th 
generally leaves some deficiency in marital sphere. The sun in 
the 7th, for that matter with any planet, except when well 
aspected, dignified etc. or when Venus or the 7th lord is 
powerful, is capable of hurting this sphere. The woman will be 
sickly, if the Sun is alone; if with the Moon it may affect her 
mental plane or may cause her bloody diseases; if with Mars 
or Saturn, she may be of questionable character; if with Rahu, 
there may be separation, divorce etc; if with Venus, the native 
himself may be a debaucher and if with Jupiter, the partner 
may prove a spendthrift beyond income and may be barren; on 
the whole, the Sun with a malefic in the 7th will cause early 
death of the spouse while in the company of a benefic instead 
of death, a calamitous situation will follow. 


677. Sun-Jupiter : will have little happiness, be harsh in 
speech, will depend on others for food and grow, and be 
miserable. 


Seventh Bhava 105 


678. Sun-Venus: will eat others' food, be interested in 
serving others, be devoid of relatives, be distressed and 
indigent. 

Notes : The Sun—Venus Yoga in the seventh leads to 
poverty as above. {tt will also deprive the native of conjugal 
pleasures. They are better servants than commanding masters. 


679. Sun-Saturn : will be devoid of conjugal pleasures, 
will have a wicked wife, will earn more enemies, be troubled by 
diseases and be wrought by fear. 

680. Moon-Mars : will suffer from stomachial disorder!, 
be devoid of learning, be fierce, and will acquire fear due to his 
aims and illicit intercourse. 


Notes : G4¥=aim; ya7=— illicit intercourse. Hence, the 


native may have to be subjected to fear or infame due to his 
(revolutionary) aims and due to his illicit pleasures of sex. 


681. Moon-Mercury .: will have sons and wife {qaarzatz), 
be fickle:minded be devoid of truth and mercy, will have 
numerous sons and be dear to relatives. 


682. Moon-Jupiter : will learn many Sastras, will have 
many friends, be beautiful and be worshipped by the king. 

683. Moon-Venus : will acquire an auspicious wife, will 
enjoy various kinds of wealth and pleasures, be very happy and 


intelligent. 

6S4. Moon-Saturn : will be sickly disposed, be very timid, 
be interested in carnal pleasures, be cruel, will have servants, 
and be interested in others' wives. 

685. Mars-Mercury : will be of crooked disposition, will 
cheat, be not splendorous, and be defective limbed. 

686. Mars-Jupiter : will be interested in joining base 
people, will wander fruitlessly, will have injured or afflicted 
body on account of sins. 

687. Mars-Venus : will be rejected by people, will be 
troubled by blood-oozing body, be insulted by others, and be 
unjustly disposed, 


106 Garga Hora 


688. Mars-Saturn : will suffer from various diseases, will 
have an emaciated body (ettw1¥) will promote quarrels, will 
do wicked acts and will be highly beautiful. 


Notes : If Mars and Saturn are in Cancer for Capricorn 
Lagna, the native will beget a chaste and beautiful wife, see 
Phala Deepika. 


689. Mercury-Jupiter . will have high mental latitude, be 
proud, fickleminded, distressed, be a _ spend-thrift, and be 
troubled by sexual feelings. 


690. Mercury- Venus : will acquire a virtuous wife;. will 
have physical comforts and happiness, be unkind and be un- 
grateful to wife. 


Notes : According to the above, thc native will not return 
the affection to his wife in the way he receives it. 


691. Mercury-Saturt: will have a wicked wife, be 
physically troubled on account of sex, will have vices, be 
insulted by others, and be not virtuous, 


692. Jupiter-Venus : will house various diseases, will have 
strange (fa) voice and auspicious body (frec from defects). 
be crucl, praiseworthy, famous and pious of God _ and 
Brahmins. 


693. Jupiter-Saturn : will be conquered by women will 
misappropriate women's wealth, be devoid of truth and wealth, 
be a liar and sinner. 


Notes : This combination is suggestive of those who grab 
a (helpless) woman’s wealth somehow or other. At the same 
time, these men are controlled by other females. 


694. Venus-Saturn : will have many enemies, will eat 
unedibles, will violate others* beds, be shameless and will 
nourish others. 


Notes : Vcnus-Saturn combination in the 7th is normally 
not favourable for a smooth married life. It will be marked 
with frequent disruptions, wordy duals, devoid of loyalty by 
the spouse and ultra-marital conjugal happiness. 


Seventh Bhava 107 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN SEVENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 695 to 729) 


695. Sun-Moon-Mars : will have physical troubles out of 
sickness, be fickle-minded, will suffer from sexual distress, be 
not virtuous and will be won over by women. 


696. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be devoid of sons, will 
join base women, will be hard in disposition, be troubled and 
be sensuous. 

697. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will incur diseases, will not be 
firm in regard to females (i.e. will be a debaucher), be cruel 
and sinfully disposed. 

698. Sun-Moon-Venus  : will be deprived of wife, will have 
hatred, anger and enmity, will live in foreign countries and be 
inimical to preceptors. 


699. Sun-Moon-Saturn : will be wicked, interested in the 
next world, frank and will have knowledge of Justice. 


700. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will be devoid of efficacy and 
pleasure, be interested in eating others’ food, will depend on 
others and be sinful. 

701. Sun-Mars-Jupiter : will be insulted by others, will join 
base men, be interested in bad deeds, and will not adopt reli- 
gious observances. 


702. Sun-Mars-Venus : will be bereft of distinction, be not 
kind, be sinfully inclined, be full of diseases, be not learned 
and be unwise. 

Notes : fefsrj means distinction, character, peculiar etc. 
The native may not have good character or he may not achieve 
excellence or distinction in any walk of life. 

703. Sun-Mars-Saturn : will possess an ugly physique, will 
have a wife devoid of character, will be of bad mentality, be 
ungrateful, fear-filled, emaciated due to libidinous nature and 
be cruel in disposition. 

704. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : will be of bad nature, be fear- 
stricken, be forsaken by elders, be not kind, be unwealthy and 
will wear rags. 


108 Garga Hora 


705. Sun-Mercury-Venus: will be inclined to join base 
men. be merciless, be interested in stealing, will have a mean 
wife, will not have profane knowledge derived from worldly 
experience (faata gta) but be intelligent. 


706. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will have ugly body, over- 
anxious, interested in his mean wife, fear-stricken, will watch 
for weak points (x-:71%) and be wicked. 


707. Sun-Jupiter-Venus : will be unkind, will incur disease 
after disease, be forsaken by his wife, will join base men and 
will not trust in Sastras. 

708. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn: will have a dejected wife, will 
not be attached to people, be poor in mentality and will tremble 
with fear. 


Notes : The native will be truthful as added in Hora 
Ratna. 


709. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will be libidinous, be very happy, 
be skilful in ‘having sexual enjoyments, will conquer senses 
and will join charitable people. 


710. Moon-Mars-Mercury : will be ugly, be scholary, poor, 
cruel, will lose his wife and knowledge. 


711. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be helpful, truthful, will 
have a_ skilful wife, be interested in war and will always be 
inclined towards sexual enjoyment. 


712, Moon-Mars-Venus ;: will wear rags, be fierce, be not 
attached to the virtuous, be hard-hearted and will do blame- 
worthy acts. 


713. Moon-Mars-Saturn : will be interested in good 
company, be out-spoken, interested in Vedas, and be favour- 
able to preceptors and Gods. 


714, Moon-Mercury-Jupiter +: will enjoy abundant plea- 
sures, will speak eloquently, be interested in women and in 
Sastras and be an expert warrior. 


713. Moon-Mercury- Venus : will perform meritorious acts, 
be honourable, good-natured and modest. 


Seventh Bhava 109 


716. Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be rich, will be endowed 
with f' vod, grains and belief and will have many sons. 


717. Moon-Jupiter- Venus : will perform meritorous acts, 
will be dear to women, be fearless, virtuous, and famous. 


718. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be worshipped even by 
Indra (i.e. will be so superior and divine a personage), will have 
knowledge of Mantras, will) possess elephants and horses, will 
conquer his senses, and will visit shrines. 


719. Moon-sVenus-Saturn : will be skilful in achieving 
carnal pleasures (tft s7%34q), will be great in Sastraic know- 
ledge, will acquire wealth, will make distinct progress, be 
virtuous and will use money for good deeds. 


720. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be great, be meritorious 
in acts, be worshipped by enemies, be jealous and dear to good 
people. 


721. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be subjected to troubles, 
will lose his wealth, be interested in eating meat, be very bad in 


disposition, will kill (i.e. be a butcher, murderer etc.) and be 
famous. 


722. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : Not given in the text. 


723. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will have broad eyes, be bashful 
will be endowed with fame and happiness, and be amiable to 
Brahmins. 


724. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be very short-tempered, be 
highly inimical, be devoid of luck, be troubled by diseases and 
will join bad people. 

725. Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be auspicious, be devoid of 
intelligence, will be a good servant in royal administration, be 
free from enemies, be just and honured by his relatives. 


726. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be chief among kings, 


be very wealthy, very happy, be endowed with a virtuous wife 
and be dear to people. 


Notes : Compare this ‘with the great Adhi Yoga. For 


110 Garga Hora 
more information, see my translations of Horasara, Parasara 
Hora and Saravali. 


727. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be famous, will be 
endowed with several kinds of wealth, Sastraic acquaintance 
and palaces, and be highly meritorious. 


728. Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be worshipped by the 
king, will conquer his enemies, will enjoy landed properties and 
wealth, be always meritorious, noble -and skilful. 

729. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be endowed with quadru- 
peds, be truthful, will have frequent movements (from place 
to place) (agyq), will have good nature and be attached to 
Brahmins. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN SEVENTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 730 to 764) 


730. Suit-Moon-Mars-Mercury: will be devoid of valour; 
be unkind, interested in sinful stories, will make futile efforts 
(i.e. will not attain success), and will be highly short-tempered. 


731. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be dear to the virtuous, 
kind, will have many wives and many sons and be friendly 
in disposition. 

732. Sun-Moon-Mars- Venus: will be bereft of wife, 
interested in blaming others, will speak’ little truth G. e. some- 
times truthful and sometimes not), be hard-hearted and be not 
inclined towards. charity. 

733. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will have a wicked wife, 
be bereft of sons, be cruel, will perform meritorious acts be 
pretentious in disposition (###OTTT WH). 

734. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will have many wives, 
will be of false disposition and be blame-worthy. 


735. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus : will face many difficulties 
due to bad wife, be very impetuous (@#taaa#), and be 
phlegmatic. 


736. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be attached to bad 


Seventh Bhava 111 


people, will visit prostitutcs, be sinful, ungrateful, be troubled 
by bilious complaints, be wicked and be unintelligible. 


737. Sun-Moon-Jupiter- Venus : will be dirty, will perform 
no..n-Sastraic acts, be. intent on living.in foreign places and 
be not wise. 


738. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be devoid of sons, 
will be a great liar, will have an emaciated body and be interes- 
ted in promoting quarrels. 


Notes: ‘‘will be interested in Sastras and stories’? is an 
addition in Hora Ratna. 


739. Sun-Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be night-blind, be 
fierce, be subjected to much anguish (a4g<77), will experience 
evils, will lose wealth, be interested in vedic learning and _ be of 
mean mind. 


740. Sun-Mercury-Mars-Jupiter : will be always subjected 
to troubles; will have a thin body and will be mentally troubled 
due to wife's blemish. 


743. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus  : will possess an ugly wife, 
will be of bad character, be adverse to Sastras, be devoid of 
sons and good principles. 


Notes: Blabhadra states these results for Sun-Mars- 
Mercury-Saturn combination in the 7th house while he is silent 
in respect of Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus yoga in the 7th house. 


742. Sun-Mars-Mercury -Saturn :C. G. Rajan has no 
mention of the effects in this context in regard to 7th bhava. 
But in general he says that a yoga by these four planets will 
make one an army chief, a King’s minister, do base acts and 
libidinous. 

743. Sun-Mars-Jupiter- Venus : will be unkind, be interes- 
ted in sexual accounts, be cunning, be a drunkard and will 
acquire bad or mean learning. 

744. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be bereft of wife, be 


inimical to others, will promote quarrels and will be highly 
afflicted. 


112 Garga Hora 


745. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn — !.will be devoid of money, 
devoid of shame, be harsh in disposition (qq taaia), be noto- 
riously sinful (i. e. well-known for his bad deeds), and be 
interested in his own people. 


746. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be free from 
diseases, be of pretentious disposition, be fond of meat and 
be defeated by enemies. 


747, Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be devoid of 
wisdom, will have no knowledge of Vedas and other Sastras, 
will be unfortunate, and will promote quarrels. 


748, Sun-Mercury-Venus-Saturn <Not discussed by C. G. 
Rajan and Balabhadra. The former adds in the appendix, 
that these four in general if join in a bhava, will give good face, 
facial beauty, truthful disposition and virtue. 


749. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be given to much 
anger, be harsh in disposition, be devoid of wealth and sons 
and will cheat others. 

750. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will perfrom auspicious 
acts, be beautiful, will have pleased mind and_ be a lord. 


751. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus — : will possess a good- 
looking wife, be himself good-looking, will have many sons 
and be just. 

752. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be very couragaous, 
be liberal in acts, be intelligent and be respectful to Brahmins 
and Gods. 


753. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn ! will be free from jealousy, 
be principled devoid of principles be charitable and skilful. 


754, Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn _: will possess beautiful 
appearance, be dear to women, will have beautiful and broad 
eyes, be eloquent in speech and be dear to kings. 


755. Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be liked by good 
people, be truthful, endowed with wisdom, be skilful, be devoid. 
of fear and! be unjust. 


Seventh. Bhava 113 


756. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be dear to guests, 
be charitable, be of good disposition, be greatly truthful and 
will respect preceptors. 


757. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be liked by 
virtuous people, will have sons, be charitable, pleased, will 
have beautiful wife and be intelligent. 


758. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Sat urn : will be modest, will 
face obstacles in his undertakings (will have checkered career, 
see fasnenrrf). will be highly intelligent, be skilful and will 


destroy his enemies. 


759. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be highly bashful, 
will have sons and wife, will control his senses, and will have 
a physique devoid of ‘evils’ (This will mean that the native 
does not commit evils or sins). 


760. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be full of fortunes, 
be honoured, be akin to a king, will confer auspiciousness and 
be truthful. 


761. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will have many wives, 
will hold the flag of virtue aloft, be truthful, happy; merciful 
and will destroy others. 


762. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will be interested in 
achieving distinction (fafar2%mq has, however, been rendered 
by Rajan as "will have good blood)", will have beautiful body, 
will be very wealthy or fortunate, be good looking, be chief 
among his men and be modest. 


763. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn + will be highly valorous, 
famous, strong will have auspicious (defectless) limbs and be 
free from pains. 

Notes : twaqramsq is the reading of Balabhadra_ which 
means the native will be away from liquors. This is against 
‘freedom from pains’ of C. G. Rajan add apparently he had 
his basis read 7aaqTys>4. 


764. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will auquire a skilful 
wife, be free from enemies and _ be just. 


114 Garga Hord 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN SEVENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 765 to 785) 


765. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be a eunuch, 
be ugly, be evil-minded and harsh. 

766. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus- : will be dull-witted, 
troubled by phlegmatic disorders, be unintelligible, be 
loathsome and _ will have a bad wife. 


767. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will have bad 
duaghters and bad sons, w:ll have an emaciated body, will 
maintain speechlessness and will perform uncharitable acts. 


768. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be unsteady 
about females, interested in sexual accounts, be timid in nature 
ann will have many blemishes. 


769. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn: will be devoid of 
splendour, will be a chief cheat, be negligent of high order 
and will be inimical to people. 


Notes : "aTz wisyqapart from meaning "greatly negli- 
gent" also means ''will be subjected to mishaps". 


770. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn —: will be highly jealous, 
be troubled by high sexual feelings, will have an inimical wife 
and will be unintelligible. 


771, Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus  : not available as 
per C.G Rajan and Balabhadra. However, Rajan adds 
that the these five in conjunction in any bhava indicate that 
the native will be merciless, will lose his wife and children, 
will eat much and be harsh in speech. 

772. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be devoid of 
fame, will cheat others, will have many enemies, and will 
guess others' mind. 


773. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will have evil 
notions, will enjoy conveyances, will have cardiac diseases 
and will be friendly to all. 

774. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn: will be unkind, 
will eat others’ food, be mean and will have a wicked wife. 


Seventh. Bhava 115 


775. Suit-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will not be splen- 
dorous, be dveoid of wealth, sons and gratitude and_ be hard- 
hearted. 


776. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be shameless, 
will not study Vedas, will like sinful acts, will by nature 
join base men and be sickly. 


777. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be foolish, 
be fond of childish acts, be miserly and of bad. disposition. 


778. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be poor, will 
have vices, be very timid in disposition and _ will hate bis 
relatives (ateqafafcj<T). 


779. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will have a very 
wicked wife, will be immodest, will be at all times hunger- 
stricken and be devoid of intelligence. 


780. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be very 
kind, be justly disposed, be truthful, dear to good men and 
will acquire a virtuous wife. 


781. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : be disposed 
charitably, be dear to women and. be eloquent inspeech. 


Notes : "will be endowed with lordship" is an addition 
made by Balabhadra. 


782. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturit : will be patient 
in dispostion, will have good conduct, be praiseworthy 
intelligent, and will like his relatives. 


783. Moon-Mars-Jupiter Venus-Saturn : will show interest 
in shrines, be worshipped by kings and will be served by 
many. 

Notes : Balabhadra has a different account in this regard, 
for he says that the native will be interestcd in shrines, be 
free from sickness, be long-lived. and interested in Sastras. 


784. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : Balabhadra 
states here what was stated by us vide 783 above. 


785. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be devoid 


116 Garga Hora 


of enmity, be interested in giving charities and will be well- 
praised by virtuous people (aga agqa7). 


EFFCTS OF 6 PLANETS IN SEVENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 786 to 792) 


786. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be 
devoid of truth and wealth, be troubled by discases, and will be 
distressed due to royal troubles. 


787. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn: will be a 
servant, will suffer from serious diseascs, will wear rags and 
will indulge in cheating. 

788. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be trou- 
bled by diseases, be indolent and will have a wicked wife 
(ggarzt) and will have a troubled physique (a1 a3). 


Notes : There is slight misinterpretation in Mr. Rajan's 
text at the end. The above is correctly given as per Balabhadra's 
sloka along with relevant Sanscrit words. 


789. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn ; will be miser- 
able, be immodest, troubled by hunger and will incur good 
results out of fear. 


790. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
unsuccessful, uuifriendly, unhappy, will do fierce deeds and 
be miserly. 


791. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
interested in others' women, be troubled by others, and will 
lack intelligence. 


792. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
kingly, beautiful, very wealthy and be always happy. 


EFFECTS OF I1_PLANETS IN SEVENTH BHA VA 
(Rule 793) 
793. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will 


be an emperor, be very famous and be very valorous, be 
virtuous and be liked by all. 


9 


Eighth Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN EIGHTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 794 to 814) 


794 Sun-Moon : will be very sickly, short-lived, friendly 
(ferveaafa), happy, shameless and be timid in war (ie. not 
bold in quarrels, disputes etc). 


795. Sun-Mars : will suffer from complaints of blood, be 
unsteady, be interested in sinful acts, be devoid of friends, 
will lack mental vigour and wealth. 


Ntoes : afeq means lustfulness, greediness, eager etc., 
apart from meaning unsteady. The Sun-Mars combination in 
the 8th leads debauchery and other vices. It can cause various 
diseases of the face, blood etc. 


796. Sun- Mercury :; will have bad mentality, will grow on 
other's food, live in foreign countries, be devoid of valour and 
be free from enemies. 


797. Sun-Jupiter : will be devoid of self-respect, be 
wicked. be interested in other man’s wife, and be devoid of 
intelligence. 


798. Sun-Venus : will have money earned in bad ways, be 
ugly, will be interested in bad place, will eat the food ofa bad 
king (i.e. will earn money through a corrupt employer etc.), will. 
have bad profession and will be conquered. 


Notes; The short and the long of the above is that one 
with Venus and the Sun in the 8th will not be happily placed 
in respect of profession, wealth , success and place to move. 


118 Garga Hora 


799. Sun-Saturn : will have excess phlegm in_ tempera- 
ment, be highly rheumatic, be devoid of truth and passion and 
will always like to earn from foreign places. 


800. Moon-Mars : will have bad disposition, be troubled 
by diseases, miserable, un successful and be able to guess 
others. 


Notes : That ‘the native will advance in the society is an 
addition in Hora Ratna's text. 


801. Moon-Mercury : will have wicked mentality, be 
troubled by diseases, be like a eunuch, be fraudulant, will 
suffer from a serious disease and be a miser. 


802. Moon-Jupiter : will be devoid of meritorious acts, be 
short-lived, poor, foolish, crippled, and will have bad company. 


803. Moon-Venus : will be of blame-worthy disposition, 
be timid, sinful and w ill blame others. 


804. Moon-Saturn : will be desirous of receiving the mercy 
of bad people, will have futile illusion, be happy; peaceful, and 
will be given up by his wife. 

805. Mars-Mercury : will look old in your itself, be un- 
grateful, and will have very harmful notions. 


806. Mars-Jupiter : will have illegal money, be poor, 
base, will have many enemies, be defeated and be a miser. 


807. Mars-Venus : ‘will be desirous of doing bad acts, be 
untruthful, will lose money out of mercy, be not valorous and 
be a dunce. 


808. Mars-Saturn : will be ugly, be issueless, will have a 
very wicked wife, be devoid of intelligence and virtue and will 
live in foreign countries. 


809. Mercury-Jupiter : will be devoid of relatives, will 
loss wisdom, will cheat and will suffer misery on account of 
bad company. 

810. Mercury-Venus : will have a polluted physique, be 
unjust, will eat others' food and serve sothers. He will have 
knowledge of the atom. 


Eighth Bhava 119 


Notes : This is a good yoga for atomic scientists. 


811. Mercury-Saturn :; will have many aims, will be sin- 
fully disposed, will be a tale-bearer and be devoid of intelli- 
gence. 


812. Jupiter-Venus : will have many enemies, make enmity 
without purpose, have few childeren and will not be interested 
in Sastras. 


813. Jupiter-Saturn : will be bereft of grains and wealth, 
will be very inimical, be troubled and be very wicked. 


814. Venus-Saturn : will join others' wives, will eat others’ 
food, will serve others, will always tell lies and be unjust. 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN EIGHTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 815 to 848) 


815. Sun-Moon-Mars : will be untruthful, be not in the 
company of rich men (migra fe qaaq), be not himself rich 
(fasts), be fierce, devoid of good qualitics, be very miserable 
and will join bad people. 


816. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be a destitute or be mean 
(gt), be of bad mental disposition, be not splendorous' will 
join very base men, mean-minded, sick and sinful. 


817. Sun-Moon-Jup iter : will be sinful, dear to wicked 
people, will make futile efforts, be interested in drinks (intoxi- 
cant) and tales, be devoid of friends, and will acquire an excel- 
lent wife. 


818. Sun-Moon-Veuus : will be devoid of wealth, will do 
bad acts, be very short-tempered, immodest, interested in 
others’ food and will cheat. 


819. Sun-Moon-Saturn : will be untruthful, indigent, be 
lazy, sleepy, miserable, devoid of valour, and be very timid. 


820. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will be devoid of friends, be 
poor, will have rags, will join rich men, will be interested in 
liquor and be devoid of friendliness. 


821. Sun-Mars-Jupiter: will be devoid of truth and 


120 Garga Ifora 


fame be vividly miserable, be a miser, troubled by heavy expen- 
diture and sexual feelings. 

$22. Sun-Mars- Venus : will be impure, unfriendly, very 
efficacious, timid and infamous. 

$23. Sun-Mars-Saturn : will suffer from diseases, will 
have enemies, be not virtuous, be very ill-tempered and be 
bereft of his men. 

824. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : will be shameless, will blame 
the people, will be bereft of religion and profession, be not 
efficacious, be unkind and not happy. 

825. Sun- Mercury- Venus: will do various kind of acts, 
will destroy enemies, be valorous, will enjoy happiness from 
children, will indulge in vicious acts, and will acquire abundant 
grains. 

826. Sun-Mercury-Saturn: will b2 miserable due to 
diseases, be not famous and be a cheat. 

Notes : According to Balabhadra, the native will be 
subjected to many deseases, will be highly miserable, will 
possess a beautiful body, be devoid of fame and will cheat 
others. 

$27. Sut-Jupiter- Venus : will be endowed with money 
and grains, be happy, will be highly skilful in many kinds of 
speech, be kind and meritorious in acts. 

$28. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn : will be subject to many deseases 
will deviate from the path of religion, be not virtuous. be argu- 
mentative and be devoid of relatives. 

829. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will be very miserable. 

830. Moon-Mars-Mercury : will inflict harm to the king. 

831. Moon-Mar's-Jupiter : will suffer from hunger and 
thirst and will be after sexual pleasures. 

Notes : This combination is capable of depriving one of 
even a square meal. 

$32. Moon-Mars-Venus . will be happy and will be favour- 
able to the king. 


Eighth Bhava 121 


833. Moon-Mars-Saturn : will suffer from various kinds 
of diseases. 

834. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be at logger heads with 
his wife. 

835. Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be -a recipient of royal 
favours but will be bereft of money and corn. 


836. Moon-Mercury-Saturt : will have a number of 
enemies. 


837. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be very happy and will 
possess a good wife. 


837. a. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be after the women of 
other men. 


838. Moon-Venus-Saturn : will lose his wife and be devoid 
intelligence. 


839. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will acquire many diseases on 
account of various (mis) deeds of his own. 

Notes : This is indicative that the native will acquire self- 
made diseases of many a kind. 


840. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will have abundant money 
earned through thieves. 


Notes : The native, according to the present rule, will 
gain plenty of money with the help of thieves. That is, he may 
head a number of thieves and be a gang leader. The 8th house 
rules such wealth for which the person does not make honest 
efforts. Hidden treasures are also ruled by this house. 


841. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will suffer from leprosy, 
much misery and much penury. 


842. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will acquire deseases and 
poverty through many people. 


Notes : This is indicative of a possibility that the native 
will join such men who may ne capable of leading only to 
sickness and pennilessness. 


122 Garga Hora 


843. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn ; will destroy many of his 
enemies. 


844. Mars-Venus-Saturn : will on his own increase his 
diseases. 


845. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will obtain destruction of 
wealth and grains. 


846, Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be sickly. and be skilful 
in imprisoning and killing. 


847. Mercury-Venus-Saturn : ‘will acquire many diseases 


848. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be highly miserable. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN EIGHTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 849 to 877) 
849. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will suffer accute penury, 
850. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will suffer great grief. 


851. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus : will be modest at all 
times, will join base females, will get bad sons and bad 
(illegal) money ( Hqaa), will have bad qualities, will be very 
ill-tempered and very wicked. 


852. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will be devoid of children, 


will have bad qualities, will be ugly, be insulted and be 
unintelligible. 


853. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter +: will not have skilful 


mentality, will be troubled by hunger, be shameless and_ be un- 
successful. 


854. Stat-Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be fond of gambling, 


be bereft of money, will live in foreign countries, and be 
inimical to the society. 


855. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Sat urn : will be deviod of 
pleasures, will be forsaken by preceptors, will have a stout 
body and be mean in disposition. 

856 Sut-Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will have no accomplish- 
ment, {f#at fagfa) be unkind and be interested in the virtuous. 


Eighth. Bhava 123 


857. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be violent (zz), 
be not valorous, be bereft of intelligence and wealth, be always 
sick, timid and be subjected to difficulties. 


858. Sun-Moon-Venus-Saturn: ' will be wicked in speech, be 
interested in great sins, will join bas: men, and will be troubled 
by enemies. 

859. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be miserable, will 
have low professions, will acugire a bad wife and will have 
affliction to limbs due to sexual indulgence. 

Notes : faffer <1~ is Balabhadra's reading wich means 
that the native will lose his wife, instead of ‘‘having a bad wife" 
as per Rajan’s text. 


860. Sun-Mars-Mercury- Venus : will lose parents, be 
truthfully disposed and_ be indolent. 

861. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be fickleminded, 
treacherous, will have bad friends, will have no accomplishment 
(fat fat) and be devoid of wealth. 

862. Sun-Mars-Jupiter- Venus : will be very timid, be 
troubled by sex, be wicked and will have money earned in 
bad ways. 

863. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have an emaciated 
body, be sickly, and will destroy enemies. 

864. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter: will. be sick, bereft 
of wealth, short-lived and untruthful. 

865. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will befriend bad 
people, be interested in bad deeds, be deviod of good conduct 
and be harsh in speech. 

866. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will .like to do bad 
deeds, will give up his people and be with others, be unwise, 
be not virtuous, and will have no Sastraic knowledge. 


867. Moon-Mars-Iupiter- Venus: will be endowed with 
sons, be happy, will conquer his enemies, be wise and wealthy. 


868, Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be devoid of sons 


124 Garga Hora 


and happiness, be against his enemies (i.e. may not pardon 
his enemies), will harm his friends, be sickly, and poor. ° 


869. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus: will always be sen- 
suous, will suffer from venereal diseases, be poor and highly 


miserable. 
d 


Notes: “gars%#g” is denoted in Hora Ratna’s text 
which indicates that the native will ‘always suffer from urinary 
diseases i.e. gieet. diabetes etc., with these four planets in 8th. 
We do not know the basis of Rajan's account of the person 
being ever sensuous. Even if his text had ‘read “gag”, 


it only means “‘bewildered; infatuated, stupidified etc." 


870. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will have many enemies, 
will enjoy (YT has several interpretations, see Rule 588), will 
have gains of wealth and corns, and be always intelligible. 


871. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : Not available, accord- 
ing to Rajan and Balabhadra. However, Rajan observes 
that one with these four planets in any house will cohabit 
with many women and will hate many persons. 


872. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will at all times suffer 
from poverty, be devoid of wealth and conduct but will have 
sons. 


873. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be sickly, indigent, 
be a leper, and will join his enemies, 


874. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will suffer from many 
diseases and penury, and be miserable and sensuous. 


875, May s-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will be ee rich 
‘and friendly and will destroy enemies. 


876. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : not available. Rajan 
states in general context that one with this yoga in any bhava, 
Will me spicndorous ane affluent. 


— 877. Mercury- Jupiter-Venus- -Saturn : will be intelligent, 
wealthy, will have friends, and‘ will haim his enemies." 


Eighth Bhava 125 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN EIGHTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 878 to 890) 


878. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be endowed 
with corns, money and happiness, will have good conduct, be 
interested in Sastras and religion and_ will worship Gods, 
preceptors and brahmins. 


879. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus  : will be blind, wise, 
indigent and be always after women. 


880. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will go abegging, 
be poor, be interested in the knowledge of identity of the 
Universe with Brahma and will be highly skilful 


881. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus —: Not available in 
the original. Rajan, however, quotes ingeneral context that 
with these five planets in any bhava, the native will be a 
minister, rich famous, influential, authoritative and will inflict 
punishment as justice. 


882. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be wise, 
bereft of happiness from wife and will live by begging. 


883. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : same results as 
above. Addionilly, the native will possess good qualities. 


884: Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : Will be seporet 
be happy with regard to wife and will be wise. 


885. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be very sick, 
intelligent, very poor and skilful. 


886. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus  : will be happy 
in regard to wife, be liberal, of good conduct and_ be poor. 


Notes : As per Balabhadra's quotation of the concerned 
sloka, the native will always have self-respect, will be endowed 
with sexual pleasures, meritorious acts, service and good 
conduct (<faaaaaratat? zac ) all will be devoid of wealth. 


887. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn —: will suffer from 
bad diseases, will kill, be imprisoned, will suffer from penury 
and be poor. 


126 Garga Hora 


Notes : For aq a-aarzaq see rule No. 560. 


888. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturi +: will sometimes 
contemplate the Supreme Spirit, yet sometimes be detached 
(from that path), will sometimes grow twisted (matted) hair, yet 
sometimes will remain tonsured, and will have various (such) 
guises and will perform very cruel acts. 


Notcs ; The above translation is of Balabhadra's quota- 
tion which reads thus: aq farffa afew w afesad aragag 


aiifam tery This goes to convey that the native will 
have peculiar guises and will not constantly remain attached 
to the path of divine knowledge. 


889. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have 
many quadrupeds, be affluent, be highly scholarly, and be skil- 
ful in the sciences of Sex and Yoga. 


Notes : The word a¥7 },a5 more than 30 meanings in the 
Sanscrit language. On the one hand it means the system of 
philosophy established by Patanjali, which is considered to be 
the second division of Sankhya philosophy, practically reckoned 
as a separate system. On the other hand, it denotes explora- 
tion of knowledge of the Great Spirit via deep and abstract 
meditation. The other general meanings of the word are : 
Remedy, spell (Mantra etc.), magic etc, Yoga Sastra simply 
means Yoga philosophy. 

890. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will always be 
wise, rich and be highly valorous in times of war. 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN EIGHTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 891 to 894) 

891. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : willbe glori- 
ous {sa@aT), be merciful and will be addressed like a great king. 
(cisfaratata gad ) 

Notes : s~aay can mean ear, which is out of context here. 


The least mention above indicates that the native will’ be 
honoured as though he were a king. 


Eighth Bhava 127 


892. Suit-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will have 


various kinds of happiness but be bereft of wealth and will 
enjoy with sons. 


893. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn  : will be 
endowed with abundant happiness, various kinds of wealth, 
and will like playing with horses (#%¢q firsritf). 


894. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupit er-Venus-Saturn : will be 
very rich, devoted to brahmins and endowed with relatives. 


EFFECTS OF 7 PLANETS IN EIGHTH BHAVA 
(Rule 895) 
895. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn: will 
lord over elephants and horses, be chief among his men, be 
endowed with houses and wealth and devoted to brahmins. 


10 


Ninth Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN NINTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 896 to 916) 
896. Sun-Moon « will be very modest, be a great men, be 


famous for his valour, be dear to the virtuous and be justly 
disposed. 


897. Sun-Mars : will be self-respected, will win over his 
enemies, will show interest to be free from blemish, be splen- 
dorous and skilful in rendering justice. 


898. Sun-Mercury : will have good intelligence, be truthful, 
dear to the learned, and will have many friends. 


899. Sun-Jupiter : will -subdue his enemies, be happy, will 
enjoy gains of corns and wealth, be amiable to the virtuous, 
and dear to the king. 


900. Sun-Venus : will be endowed with greatness (qaqt 
aud), be intelligent, be famous and _ be friendly. 
901. Sun-Saturn : will be endowed with wealth and intelli- 


gence, be very happy in married life, and will win over his 
enemies. 


902. Moon-Mars : will have knowledge of Sastras, be very 
wealthy, skilful and will enjoy many kinds of food and drinks. 


903. Moon-Mercury : will be happy with children, will 
conquer his five senses, be interested in religion, praiseworthy, 
dear to king and worshipped by relatives. 


904. Mcon-Jupiter : will not be wealthy, be skilful in 


Ninth Bhava 129 


speech, fond of pleasures, valorous, grateful, interested in 
Sastras and very intelligent. 


905. Moon-Venus : will be dear to great men, will have 
knowledge of Sastras, be friendly, and be attached to his 
relatives. 


906. Moon-Saturn : will be interested in religious vows 
and charitable acts, be dear to king, will have many sons and 
plurality of wives, be rich and will have knowledge of Sastras. 


907. Mars-Mercury : will have many servants, be endowed 
w' th ma:zital happiness, will.acquire sons, will be an eloquent 
speaker, and be devoid of bad qualities. 


908. Mars-Jupiter : will’ be full of virtues, will take bath 
in sacred rivers, will respect Brahmins and Gods, be an agricul- 
turist and be justly disposed. 


909. Mars-Venus : will honour his guests, will have beauti- 
ful body, will have very pleasing appearance, be chief in his 
race and will be principled. 


910. Mars-Saturn : will be devoid of vices (sqaafagta4), 
be interested in earning by truthful means, be courageous and 
will like his relatives. 


911. Mercury-Jupiter : will have steady mind.be liked 
by all, be merciful, will have faith in Vedas and other Sastras, 
will be chiefly an agriculturist and be always virtuous. 


912. Mercury-Venus : will have servants, will have meri- 
torious acts to his credit, be egoistic, will have many friends 
and be dear to women. 


913. Mercury-Saturn : will be very beautiful, will have 
abundant landed property, will be endowed with good guali- 
tics, be quite wealthy, and be liked by the king. 


914. Jupiter-Venus : will have wealth and fame, good sons 
_ and paraphernalia, be frank and fond of children. 


. . Fl. Jupiter-Saturn : will be a lord, be interested in music 
and religion, be virtuous and favourable to good deeds. 


130 Garga Hora 


. 916. Venus-Saturn : will be highly meritorious, highly 
learned, famous, skilful in speech and dear to people. 


Notes : Balabhadra states that the native will be serene 
in disposition and be resolute. 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN NINTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 917 to 950) 
917. Sun-Moon-Mars : will be dear to the virtuous, intere- 


sted in meritorious acts and Sastraic account, will have purity 
of the body, and be interested in good qualities. 


918. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will consider truth as important, 
be beautiful, will have broad eyes, be a lord, will be endowed 
with a. pleasing, body, and will be attached to his sons. 


919, Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will be expert in principles of 
religion (adfagiaze), will be endowed with the wealth of 
learning (faenfsta), will be detached’ from sinful dealings be 
very truthful and be bereft of sexual desires. 


920. Sun-Moon-Venus : will be interested in speaking 
harsly, will not visit shrines, be of thievish disposition, and 
be miserable. 


921. Sun-Moon-Saturn : will be interested in religious 
tales, be favourable to preceptors, be principled, be dear to the 
virtuous and will trust Sastras. 


922. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be interested in committing 
sinful acts, be cruel, untruthful, ill-disposed, interested in eating 
others* food, and will serve others. 


923. Sun-Mars-Jupiter : will be banished from the religion, 
will not have good history, will have a bad wife and will be 
detached from his relatives. 


924. Sun-Mars-Venus: will be devoid of religion and 
virtues, be vividly honoured, be devoid of good background 
and wisdom. 


925. Sun-Mars-Saturn .' will be devoid of son, will lose 
the vigour of youth, be sinful, will wear rags, be highly spend- 
thrift, and will do irreligious acts. 


Ninth Bhava 131 


926. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : will be endowed with riches, 
will have many friends, will honour brahmins, have good dis- 
position and be just. 


927. Sun-Mercury-Venus : will talk much, be truthful, 
interested in virtues, grateful, will conquer his Five Senses and 
be free from sinful disires. 


Notes : fagtaaraaq is the reading in Hora Ratna’s quota 


tion as against ‘talking much” mentioned by Rajan. The 
version of Balabhadra means that the native will be devoid of 
or deprived of specch. The 9th being the 8th from the 2nd, the 
house of speech, these planets may deprive one of speech or 
cause stammering etc. This will be more true if the Sun com- 
busts the other two or one of the three being the ruling plane 


for the 2nd house. 


. 928. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will be an .agriculturist, be at 
all times charitably disposed, will possess good splendour, be 
strong, broad-eyed and justly disposed. 


Notes: One will be highly learned in the branch of 
justice (or politics) as Balbhadra denotes aa@fazill his 
quotation. 


929. Sun-Jupiter-Venus : will possess prime virtues, will 
acquire grains and wealth, be great, and beautiful, 


Notes : gua apart from meaning beautiful indicates a 
fortunate person. 


930. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn: will ‘like (living in) foreign 
countries, be miserable and devoid of sexual feelings. 

931. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will be an indifferent citizen 
(faxaa oicz'), be immodest, be sinful by nature, and will have 
an ugly physical set up. 


932. Moon-Mars-Mercury : will be truthful, fan.ous and 
, wealthy, will be splendorous (37374) also means bodily vigiour, 


generative faculty etc.), be an astrologer, be very efficacious 
and great (or respectable). 


132 Garga Hora 


933. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will enjoy happiness from sons, 
be affectionate to friends, will possess good intelligence, 
conquer his Five Senses, and will be attached to his relatives. 


934. Moon-Mars-Venus : will be happy with sons, be pure, 
kind. worth respect even from a king and _ will join classic 
people. 


935. Moon-Mars-Saturn : will like good people, be very 
bashful, devoid of sexual feelings, will possess principally good 
qualities, and will be destroyed by the king. 

Notes : The last mentioned cffect is differently dealt with 
in Hora Ratna, for it says that the subject will be punished by 
the king, see a@qarrfaa in which context 2,faa means punished, 
though variedly it denotes ‘‘ruled’’. Such native may receive 
punishment from king or government. 

936. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter: ill be skilful, will like 
famous people (fafarz tad), be merciful, will visit shrines, and 
will be allert in his duty. os 

. Notes  qaidtaaday is added in Balabhadra' S version 
which means that the native will have sons and wealth. 

C.G. Rajan in his translation states that the native will 
be alien ‘in his duty whereas faf*RTfl"fcnj is better rendered as 


“will be endowed with sacred commandment or religious act"'. 
‘Our version denotes that the native will be identified accor- 
dingly. 


..., 937. Moon-Mercury-Venus : ‘will be good- looking, diese 
widely famous, and attached to Brahmins at all times. 


_ 938. Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be dear to the virtuous, 
will conquer enemies, be highly virtuous, and be famous. 


939. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be famous, will possess a 
virtuous wife, be principally just, and be devoid of (mundane) 
" desires. 


' 940. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be a scholar of high 
- order; be bereft of anger, be splendorous, and be notably self- 
respected. 


Ninth Bhava 133 


941. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will consider wealth as a 
chief possession, be helpful to preceptors (or elders), be endow- 
ed with justic and virtues, will possess abundant Sastraic 
knowledge and be devoid of relatives. 


942. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be intelligent, be endo- 
wed with knowledge of various Saslras, be wealthy, happy, 
patient and devoid of sexual feelings. 


943. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be merciful. interested in 
visiting shrines, will be endowed with abundant food and 
drinks {qrtq is added in Hora Ratna), will join good people 
and be always intelligent. ° 


944. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be very efficacious, egoistic; 
interested in Sastras and be charitable. ; 


945. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be free from sickness, be 
very wealthy, virtuous. kind and fearless. 


946. Mars-Venus-Saturn : will have abundant money, 
elephants and horses, will conquer his Five Senses, and be 
valorous. 

947. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be a king, be honoured 
by enemies, and will have elephants, horses and conveyances 
(i.e. will enjoy vast conveyances .) 


Note : Hora Ratna, in place of the native becoming a 
king as above, reads qzrftrata meaning that the native will be 
the head of others. 


smaifeqet is better rendered as "will have submissive 
enemies" instead of “will be respected by enemies*’. 


‘ 948. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will spend on bad missions, 


be sickly, ungrateful, forsaken by (his) people and will like to 
be valorous. 


949. Mercury- Venus-Saturn : will_be fond of quarrels, 
merciful, will have many sons, be truthful and famous. 


950. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be good-looking, liberally 
disposed, modest. ‘famous ‘ann be fond of his sons. 


134 Garga Hora 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN NINTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 951 to 984) 

951. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will adopt (religions) vows, 
be interested in religion, be famous, devoted to Fire God, and 
to: his own relatives. 

952. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : ‘will be free from diseases, 
will possess abundant wealth, be virtuous, be not valorous, and 
be attached to others’ wives. 

953. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus : will not be splendorous 
will not follow vedic duties. be devoid of shame and will guess 
about others. 


954. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will be devoid of intelli- 
gence, be a dunce, be devoid of children and be highly short- 
tempered. 


955. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be highly valorous, 
be famous, ill store wealth (fara wiaq), and be dear to 
people. 

956. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn: will be fond of songs, be 
not interested in sinful matters. will perform famous deeds, and 
be free from (mundane) desires. 

957. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be endowed with high 
grade of sastraic knowledge, be interested in visiting shrines, 
will be charitable, very wealthy and justly disposed. 

938. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be rich with various 
kinds of wealth, be found of charitability, be dutiful' and be 
dear to people. 

959. Sun-Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be liked by good 
people, be very justly disposed, wlll have many children, and 
be highly respectable. 

960. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will destory enemies, 
will be a lord and will possess conveyances, clothes and 
ornaments. 

961. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will not possess horses 


Ninth Bhava 135 


(i.e. conveyances), be wicked, be entirely devoid of mercy, and 
will not be favourable to Brahmins. 


962. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be very gracious 
of temperament (agxatz), Will be an eloquent messenger (may 
be a good ambassador), and will have many good conveyances 
and sons. 


Notes : This combination is suggestive of an ambassado- 
rial rank. 
963. Sun Mars-Jupiter- Venus : will like good qualities 


(will himself possess good qualities), be fond of good deeds, 
will have a modest wife, and will be very friendly disposed. 


964. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will have steady mind, be 


free from enemies, greatcful, enthusiastic, and will be endowed 
with mental vigour. 


965. Sun- Mars- Venus-Saturn: will be fond of money, 
will like sinful dealings. will be highly greedy (asmrfi%q), 
and will be sexually distressed. 

966. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be patient, truthful, 
merciful, be strong in speech (fafaa arzaq), and be fearless. 


Notes : fafa‘T also means lovely, beautiful etc. and it 
may mean that the native will be a gifted speaker. 


967. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be fickle-minded, 


be fond of others’ wives, be bereft of kindness, and be blamed 
by relatives. 


968. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Sat urn : will be unsteady or 


excessively passionate (#1224), be skilful in conversations rela- 
ting to sex (#ryaHxzr ze), very miserable and dull. 


969. Sun-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will perform auspicious 
acts, 'be liberal in speech, will receive royal orders, and be 
fierce in speech. 

970. Moorn-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will like guests, be 
with wise people (qfga4: a44), be chief among his men and 
be justly disposed. 


136 Garga Hora 


55: 971. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be truthful (aeatfza- 
a4), be interested in such people (aca77¥ — skilful in 
relation (849 <aqy), and be patient. 

972. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will possess beautiful 


hands and appearance, be chief among his men, will have much 
of Sastraic acquaintance and be dear to kings. - 


973. Moon-Mars-Jupiter- Venus : will have many children, 
be skilful in royal duties, be fond of visiting shrines, and be an 
expert in Sastras. 

974. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be fond of good 
qualities, be honoured by kings, will conquer his five senses, 
and be self-respected. 

-  -975. Sun-Moon-Venus-Saturn _ : will be famous, charitable, 
skilful highly learned and be rich by royal honours. 

976. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be an emperor, 
be devoid of enemies and be endowed with elephants, horses 
and treasures of various kinds. 

977. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be endowed with 
liberal acts, be fond of good deeds. skilful and be always ‘in- 
clined to uphold religion. 

978. Moon-Mercury- Venus-Saturn : will be affable, will 
befriend good people, be cunning and skilful. 


' + 979, Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be interested in 
worshipping Gods and Brahmins, will have famous notions and 
will control his five senses. 

980. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be highly bashful, 
be truthful, merciful and virtuous. 

. 981. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will have sons, wealth 
‘ahd pleasures of many kinds (qaraatifafad:), will possess a 
beautiful physique, and be acceptable to people. 

- 982. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be fond of success 
‘(farang eae 4), will be endowed with ee history and be 
successful. 


Ninth Bhava 137 


983. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn — : will perform sacrifices 
(att), be lordly disposed, be charitable, and be sinless. 


984. Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will be expert in 
profane knowledge and Vedas. 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN NINTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 985 to 1004) 


985. Suit-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter — : will be firmly 
courageous, be devoid of wisdom, be fierce and be bereft of 
Sastraic knowledge. 


986. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus  : will be endowed 
with various kinds of wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises 
(araiqarteq:), will be mthe company of good people, and be 
endowed with money and relatives. 

987. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn ° : will achieve educa- 
tion to its end, will have fame well-spread, be endowed with a 
pleasing physique and be expert in the branch of Justice. 

(see fasjFerfasr gfaata stfa geq2saz tifto**). 

988. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be fond of 
Brahmins (fas fs@). be attached to religion, be of good dispo- 
sition, be very wealthy and be fearless. 


Note : fesr also means a wise man or a sage. Hence, the 
native may enjoy the company of such lot. 

989. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be liberal in 
disposition, be affectionate, be a great man (7aTqaq57q), and 
will be firm in friendship. 

990. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn: will have religious 
faith (Waif-aaq), be charitable, be delighted or gracious 
(a=), will have ethical jobs and be devoid of desires. 


Notes : (sz), apart from meaning religious faith also 
notes composure of mind, intimacy, respect etc. Hence in this 


138 Garga Hora 


context, it can be extended to mean that the person will be 
respected by others, or be respectful of others or be endowed 
with a composed mind. 


991. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be firmly 
valorous (z3saTt), be devoid of intelligence, be fierce in dis- 
position, be bereft of Vedic knowledge, and be immodest. 


992. Suit-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will respect his 
mother and father, will be endowed with pleasing appearance, 
be very wealthy, and be amiable to Brahmins. 


993. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be interested 
in religious vows, be chief among his men, will possess a body 
without. any diseases, and be amiable to people. 


994. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn ; will acquire many 
kinds of wealth, be fond of his wife (or women), will hold the 
flag of Virtue aloft, and be famous. 


995. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will enjoy 
immense wealth, be greatly intelligent. will have many friends, 
and will defeat his enemies. 


996. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be grateful, 
enthusiastic, fond of charity, intelligent and beautiful. 


997. Sun-Mars-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will be interested 
in the acquisition of knowledge, be charitably disposed, 
virtuous, pure (qa), and be devoid of residence (or depen- 
dants) (sratfaq). 


Notes : Sukla also means disease of the white part of 
the eyes 


998. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn: will be shameless, 
be of bad disposition, be troubled by diseases, and will fear 
war (or quarrels i.e. will be timidly disposed). 


999. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will have good 
intelligence, will conquer enemies, be merciful and be fond of 
Brahmins, 


Ninth Bhava 139 


1000. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be bereft 
of diseases, be interested in undertaking acts related to God, 
be fond of good men and will be liked by the king. 

1001. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be timidly’ 
disposed, be endowed with sons and wife, be dutiful to his 
family (gra waa) and will always speak truth. 

1002. Moon-Mars-Jupiter Venus-Saturn + will be endowed 
with great wisdom and learning, helpful to elders and will 
respect Gods and Brahmins. 

1003. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn .: will be bereft of 
cunning tendency, will possess good intelligence, ‘be charitable 
and be not sinful. 

1004. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be honou- 
red by king, be fond of women and be devoid of fear and 
misery. 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN NINTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1005 to 1010) 


1005. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be 
sinful, interested in sinful tales (conversation), will be in the 
company of bad people, and be censured by people. 

1006. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be 
predominantly jealous, be devoid of fame and virtues, and be 
not wise. 


1007. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be endo- 
wed. with lovely pleasures, be devoid of great strength (7% afaa- 
glaq), be a dejected citizen and be of hard disposition. 


1008. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
fraudulant, timid, ugly, devoid of good qualities and be highly 
proud. 


1009. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will cause 


extinction (like a butcher), will eat voraciously, be sinfully 
disposed, and be cruel. 


140 Garga Hora 


1010. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will be 
the lord of the earth, will be endowed with treasury, (i.e. will 
have abundant wealth, see faraR wry, and be fearless, will 
be well bestowed (in all respects) (ad: a@¥aq). 


EFFECTS OF 7 PLANETS IN NINTH BHA VA 


LOIL. Szat-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn — : will 
enjoy great happiness, be free from diseases and be in- 
telligent. 


11 
Tenth Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANTES IN TENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1012 to 1031) 


1012. Sun-Moon : will not be skilful, be wicked by nature, 
be of bad disposition. be not charitable and be fond of women. 


1013. Sun-Mars : will be very much devasted, be success 
fill, b: liked by king and be fond of relatives. 


1014. Sun-Mercury : will be very intelligent, be famous, 
be free from desires, be fond of others, truthful and grateful. 

1015. Sun-Jupiter : will help people, will have abundant 
wealth and conveyances ( WE _AWMagalgasay), and will speak 
affectionately and sweetly. 


1016. Sun-Venus : will be self-respected, beautiful, virtuous, 
fearless and be well-versed in religious commandments (fafit#q)- 


1017, Sun-Saturn : will be devoid of wealth, be eminent 
(Farera TTeAq), will have broad eyes, lovely arms and face, 
long hair and be very intelligent. 


Notes : saeaq apart from meaning eminent does also 
mean : confident, bold, skilful, shameless, readywitted etc. 


1018. Moon-Mars : will be honoured by king, will conquer 
enemies,will have many assignments, and will earn money 
through interest (i.e. by lending). 


1019. Moon-Mercury: will be favourable to Brahmins, 


142 Garga Hora 


will be ever diligent (a2t24@), be interested in meritorious acts, 
be widely famous and be bold in his deeds. 
1020. Moon-Jupiter : will be courageous, be enowed with 


strength, be wise, will have income through fair means, be 
happy, chief and devoid of foul thinking. 


1021. Moon- Venus : will acquire wealth and _ intelligence 
(fafa g fe‘nr’), be an agriculturist, will derive happiness 
through the king and be:-worshipped by him and be of exalted 
rank (afgarazay), 

1022. Moon-Saturn : will be very.modest, will have many 
friends, be famously valorous, favourable to Brahmins and be 
firmly virile. 

1023. Mars-Mercury : will be bold, intelligent, will be 
endowed with good disposition, wealth and knowledge of 
sacred treatises, truthful, be fond of music, and be religious. 

1024. Mars-Jupiter : will be endowed with abundant 
attendance (will have many servants), will possess good history, 
be interested in Vedas and other Sastras, be within the sphere 
of religion and will cause satisfaction to others. 


1025. Mars- Venus : will be endowed with various kinds 
of eatables and drinks, will live in great shrines, be delighted, 
merciful and very modest. 


1026. Mars-Saturn: will have knowledge of Vedas, be 
endowed with virtues, be not cunning, will have quadrupeds 
and sons, be always plentiful, and will possess very pleasing 
appearance. 

1027. Mercury-Jupiter : will be very miserable (a gg:@ 
41374), will be famous, truthful, kind, pure in nature, and be 
endowed with wealth and grains. 

1028. Mercury-Venus : will be fortunate (q47), lovely 
(a}aq), be fond of guests, interested in religious conversations 
(aqHarq{tzqq), will have pleasing appearance and be firmly 
friendly. ; 


Tenth Bhava 143 


1029. Mercury-Saturn : will be interested in calculation 
i.e. will be an expert mathematician (auatqzaq), will have 
famous job, be highly intelligent, and be always attached to 
Gods and Brahmins. 


1030. Jupiter-Venus : will be fond of Brahmins (or wise- 
men), be highly intelligent, be truthful and will visit shrines. 


1030-A, Jupiter-Saturn : will be chief among Vedic scho- 
lars, be principled, be highly valorous and be dear to people. 

1031. Venus-Saturn : will be highly intelligent, be pure by 
nature, be endowed with sovereignty (faqatatay), be a great 
personage and be interested in the virtuous. 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN TENTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 1032 to 1066) 


1032. Sun-Moon-Mars : will be devoid of truth and 
vigour, be fond of battle, be dear to king, be modest in speech 
and be fond of doing good people's jobs. 


1033. Sun-Moon-Mercury : willbe bereft of sins, be fond 
of wisdom (i.e. will be intelligent), be sovereignly, will possess 
a charming physique and will be highly honoured. 


- 1034. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will be chief among, the intelli- 
gentzia, will have a secure (or an unhurt) physique, will have 
vast attendance upon him, be chief among his men and be 
intelligent. 

1035. Sun-Moon-Venus : will visit shrines, be fond of 
attending upon good people, will have knowledge of justice! 
be very wealthy, and will skilfully act with females. 


1036. Sun-Moon-Sat urn : will always maintain purity (i.e. 
be an orthodox person), be devoid of justice, will perform 
mean acts, and will desire the advent of abundant grains. 


1037. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will be highly religious (or 
charitable), be very scholarly, will have many friends, be hon- 
oured by the public, be fond of the virtuous, and will be very 
modest. 


144 Garga Hora 


1038. Sun-Mars-Jupiter +: will always be charitable, will 
possess lovely speech, be not showy, be fond of good people 
and be very modest. 


1039. Sun-Moon-Venus : will be repository of truth and 
fame, will have plenty of money earned through sovereign 
honour, be fortunate and just. 


1040. Sun-Mars-Saturn  : will be akin to the Celestial Tree 
(i.e. capable of giving anything asked for), pleasing in appea- 
rance, be splendorous, be learned in Sastras, be chief in the 
midst of his men and be always happy. 

1041 Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : will be devoid of moral duty 
(aafaataa), be devoid of anger, be fond of those who observe 
religious vows, and be fond of sacrifices and Religion. 

1042. Sun-Mercury-Venus : will be patient, charming, be 
fond of learned circle, be very just, highly learned, and be 
amiable to Brahmins. 

1043. Sun-Mercury-Saturn +: will be highly khovledgeable, 
patient, truthful, kingly, very wealthy, and be skilful in many 
acts. 

1044, Sun-Jupiter-Venus : will be very religious, will 
promote the growth of his descent, be liked by good people 
and be pleasing in appearance. 

1045. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn will be endowed with commend- 
able speech, be very modest, be very rich and will honour Gods 
and preceptors. 

1046 Sun-Venus-Saturn: will be famous, grateful, be 
endowed with learning, wisdom, Vedas and Sastras, be devoid 
of desires, be enthusiastic and cautious. 

1047. Moon-Mars-Mercury : will be devoid of moral 
duties, be inimical, enthusiastic, be liberal and amiable to 
people. 

1048. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will consider truth as_ wealth, 
be pleasing in appearance, be honoured by the king, modest, 
eminent (sew), will be endowed with good drinks, wife and 
sons and be fond of learning. 


Tenth Bhava 145 


Note : for y7ex, see notes under Rule 1017. 


1049, Moon-Mars-Venus: will be interested in shrines 
and tales, be fortunate, will defcat enemies, and worship Gods 
and Brahmins. 

‘1050. Moon-Mars-Saturn : will be splendorous. skilful in 
conversation (71374) 'be:highly bashful, honoured by kings 
and be skilful in helping others. 

1051. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter: will be worshipped by the 
king, be firm in disposition, will be endowed with exalted 
position (or riches), be interested in Vedas and be conscien- 
tious of Justice 

1052. Moon-Mercury-Venus_ : will be kind to living beings, 
be very shameful, devoid of sexuzl diseases, be always enthusia- 
stic and be splendorous. 


1053. Moos-Mercury-Saturn : will .consider truth as 
wealth, be devoid of desires. acceptable (to all), will possess 
regulated speech, be eminent firm in disposition and be sickly 
disposed. 

1054. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be very beautiful, very 


valorous, be endowed with sons and friends and will have 
abundant wealth earned by his vast intelligence. 

Notes : az is interpreted here is intelligence, see ya 
ffStfifira afzfauq ‘as given in Balabhadra’s text. 

1055. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be devoid of learning 
and modesty (faartfaatagiaz), will join the company of good 
men, be endowed with justice and will be honoured by the 
king. 

1056. Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be endowed wnh wealth, 
be lordly among people, will enjoy honour and fame but be 
ill-tempered. 

1057. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be interested in truth, 
be modest, be very meritorious in his acts, be charitable, chief 
of his men and pleasing to look at 


1058. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be endowed with great 


146 Garga Hora 


wealth, and be very valorous, will conquer his enemies, be 
patient, and be fond of visiting shrines. 

1059. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be famous, be endowed 
with wife, be very wise, be liked by women, be chief in his 
descent and will possess good qualities. 

1060. Mars-Jupiter-Venus . will always be eminent, be 
very valorous and be well-disposed to relatives. 

1061. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn: will earn more money through 
terrorizing acts, be famous, rich, and be skilful in the branch of 
Justice. 

1062. Mar's-Venus-Sat' urn: will be curt, will perform rash 
acts, will be highly distressed, will have abundant wealth, and 
be important in his descent, 

1063. Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be a great king, be 
very valorous, charitable and truthful. 

1064. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn — ; will be saintly courageous, 
be greatly affluent, will know justice, and be fond of his rela- 
tives. 

Notes : OT“[ has been rendered. as ‘‘saintly”’ while it also 
means “money-lender’’. Mercury connected with Saturn in the 
10th along with Jupiter can denote money-lenders. 

1065. Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be interested in (crea- 
ting) parks and wells, be charitable and will attain fame by his 
vast wisdom. 

1066. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be pure by nature, be 
eminent by bis intelligence, be honoured by the virtuous and 
will be free from ailments. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN TENTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 1067 to 1101) 

1067. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury — : willbe a repository of 
learning, be endowed with abundant wealth, will have sons and 
be forsaken by others). 

1068. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter: will have many servants, 


Tenth Bhava 147 


be splendorous, be liked by the virtuous and kings. 


1069. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus : will be endowed with 
horses (i.e. conveyances), will prosper greatly, be not given to 
anger and be fond of Gods and Brahmins. 


1070. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn — ; will have abundant wealth 
and Sastraic knowledge, be grateful, endowed with robes and 
ornaments and will possess good qualities. 


1071. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be a skilful speaker, 
be firm in disposition, be free from sins, and be ever 
exalted. 


1072. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be grateful, enthu- 
siatic, and will be praised by the virtuous. 


1073, Surt-Moon-Mercury-Saturn — : Effects not available in 
the original. However, these planets in conjunction generally 
make one unwealthy and ungrateful. 


1074, Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will possess good quali- 
ties, be famous, charitable and be a scholar. 


1075. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will befriend many, be 
happy with sons, be very kind and will be devoted to penance 


(ganifaa) | 


1076. Sun-Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be splendorous, pure, 
be a chief personage, be ever diligent (azta7q) honourable and 
noble. 


1077. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be truthful, fond 
of Brahmins (or sages or wisemen, fasrftpTJ*), be devoid of 
desires, be famous, will visit shrines and will have many 
sons. 


1078. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be interested in 
guests, be in the company of good men, be learned and friendly 
disposed. 


1079. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : Balabhadra does not 
give effects at this point. It is stated by C.G. Rajan that these 
in any house together will make one an army chief, a king's 

minister, do rasam act s and go after mundane pleasures. 


148 Garga Hora 


1080. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be well-disposed, 
will have great wealth, many sons, be grateful, splendorous 
and virtuous. 

1031. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be a scholar, skilful 
in justice, be jealous and firmly virile. 

1082. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be a devoted towns- 
men, be ‘self-respected, and be endowed with sons, wealth and 
conveyances. 

1083. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus: will be endowed with 
various kinds of wealth, drinks and many sons, be highly 
learned and skilful in his work. 

1084, Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will ‘receive royal 
honours, will have knowledge of religious performances, be 
valorous, be a poet, and will be against sins. 


1085. Sun-Mercury-Vernus-Saturn ;: will be very kind, be 
truthful, be devoted to Fire God, and will possess a pleasing 
appearance. 

1086. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be virtuous, be 
always interested in his father's assignments, be amiable to 
people and will be wealthy. 

1087. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will principally earn 
through his servants, be devoid of enemies and always be fond 
of assembly and skilful people. 

1088. Moon-Mars-Mercury- Venus : will be fond of instal- 
ling gardens and trees, be splendorous, will possess horses and 
be bereft of good qualities. 

1089. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be charitable, 
be very famous, and be helpful to relatives. 

1090. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will ‘be famous; be 
interested in sastraic conversations, be faithful to religion and 
be endowed with religion. 

1091. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be highly intelli- 
gent, be very proficient (q72); be praiseworthy (%&t7q), be 
helpful (fga), to people and will have good servants. 


Tenth Bhava 149 


1092. Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be of pleased dis- 
position, be dear to king, will possess an attractive physique, 
and be skilful in Justice. 


1093. Moon-Mercury-Jupit er-Venus : will possess a band 
of elephants and horses and will destroy his enemies. 


1094. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will have many 
sons, be rich by fair means, be liberal, grateful and. be free 
from bodily diseases. 


1095. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be endowed 
with patience, will possess an ugly body, truthful and will have 
wealth and sons. 


1096. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be learned 
(fase), bea great poet, be highly religious, will perform 
meritorious acts, be a good personage and be beautiful in 
appearance. 


1097. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will have many 
friends, abundant wealth and costly robes, be fortunate and 
be devoid of good-will. 


1098. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be heroic, be 
dear to the king, be skilful in conducting a war (qafazit sate) 
will posses a big treasury i.e. be highly wealthy (yaq#l71q), 
and be acceptable to people. 


1099. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be enthusiastic, 
be very just, be enduring, will conquer his five senses, and be 
pleasing to look at. 


1100. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be firm in disposi- 
tion, be skilful in performance, be ever diligent (qatanq), be 
vey wealthy and be delighted. 


1101. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be fond of 
exalted service (i.e. will make attempts to reach a high position 
of life), will be pleasing in appearance, be a great man, and be 
fond of Brahmins. 


150 Garga Hora 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN TENTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 1102 to 1122) 


1102. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter: will be valorous, 
just, will possess good physique, be highly shy, and be free 
from diseases. 


1103. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : willbe truthful, 
kind will he endowed with good conduct, be a dealer in gold 
and be happy. 


1104. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be chief in 
his descent, be principled, learned (fa@atq@) and skilful in 


poetry. 


1105. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : willbe an expert 
in arts, be endowed with patience, interested in being honoured 
and be learned in justice. 


1106. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will perform Sacri, 
fices, be enthusiastic, be devoid of pains, be an arriculturist- 
and be wealthy. 


1107. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be highly 
intelligent, will win over his enemies, be eminently rich, and be 
justly disposed. 


1108. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be extre- 
mely patient, be devoid of sins, be eminently intelligent, and 
will be a winner in regard to sastras (.e. will win anybody in 
the matter of Sastras). 


1109. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be learned, 
modest, will reach an eminent status, be fond of Sacrifices and 
conveyances. 


1110. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will be dear to 
people, be happy with living beings (i.e. will possess animals 
etc.), be grateful, be endowed with distinguished speech, and 
will possess an attractive (or handsome as aw means) body. 


1111, Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have many 
horses (i.e. conveyances), will possess a body free from 


Tenth Bhava 151 


sickness, bzplentiful, b2 principally rich and be skilful. in 
assignments relating to war. 


1112. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be free from 
diseases, be dear to women, will have foul speech and be very 
beloved. 


1113. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will possess 
many horses, be valorous, learned and will have many 
friends. 


1114. Sun- Mars- Mercury- Venus-Sat urn : will have many 
children, be truthful, pure, delighted, ‘fond of visiting shrines 
and follow religious vows. 


1115. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn ; will be very justly 
disposed, will have vast attendance upon him, will have good 
history and learning, be intelligent, will not trouble others, 
will be highly patient, and be fond of his wife. 


1116. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn —: In the general 
context, C.G. Rrjan states that.one ‘with this conjunction. in 
any house will' be wise, equal to the preceptor of Gods (i.e. 
highly learned like Jupiter, the preceptor of Gods), be reli- 
gious, will have vast knowledge of Sastras and will possess 
good qualities. 


1117. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be liked by 
many kings, be principal xmongs poets and be modest. 


1118. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be inte- 
rested in having religious vows, be skilful in living in foreign 
countries, will earn wealth by fair means, and be bereft of 
vices. 


L119. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be valorous 
justly disposed, virtuous, be a poet and be libidinous. 


1120. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be liked by 
good people, be devoid' of artificial disposition, and be fond of 
serving the virtuous. 


1121. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be a 
principal royal officer, be endowed with elephants and horses, 


152 Garga Hora 


be diligent in performing yagnas and be worshipped by 
relatives. 


1122. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be inte- 
rested in poetry, be skilful in various, Sastras, be wealthy, 
enthusiastic and be cautious. 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN TENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1123 to 1129) 

1123. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be 
king of kings, be devoid of his own men, be very valorous and 
be splendorous. 

1124. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will bea 
synonym of charity (zT4rge7q), be a king, be virtuous, be very 
graciously disposed (4gs7atz_), and be dear to people. 


1125. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will visit 
famous shrines, be a principal person with the king, be interes- 
ted in learning and be devoid of fear. 

1126. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be fond 
of partaking in battle, be of an exalted rank with the king, be 
famous, merciful and truthful 

1127. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn: will be 
endowed with various kinds of elephants and horses, be fond 
of guests and ibe widely famous. 

1128. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : CG. 
Rajan states that this conjuction in any Bhava leads to vaga- 
bond ness and high wisdom. 

1129. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
steady in disposition, and will have his feet above the beje- 
welled head of the king (i.e, the king will prostrate before the 
native, so that the native is so eminent, see qt*z qsrTafa qor~ 
qq). 

EFFECTS OF 7 PLANETS IN TENTH BHAVA 

1130. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus-Saturn : will 
have the wealth of truth and fame, be a king, be charitable 
and famous, 


12 


Eleventh Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN ELEVENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1131 to 1151) 


1131. Sun-Moon : will ‘have financial gains, be always 
plentiful, will possess superior horses, will be devoted to the 
Almighty and will be very friendly disposed. 


1132. Sun-Mars:: will be very courageous, will destroy 
enemies, will not join the band of sinners, be devoid of pride 
and be lordly disposed. 


1133. Sun-Mercury : will have plenty of gains, be a skil- 
ful trader, be wealthy, will have knowledge of justice, be 
learned and be fond of all people. 


1134. Sun-Jupiter -: will be interested in Brahmins’ assign- 
ments, be ‘fond of (installing) gardens and wells, will perform 
yagnas, be learned in many Sastras and be skilful in 
husbandry. 


1135. Sun-Venus : will have many friends, be dear to 
king and be firmly courageous. 

1136. Sun-Saturn : will be endowed with various kinds 
of wealth, be high-souled (aqfeqa), be a scholar, be grateful, 
free from miseries and delighted. 


1137. Moon-Mars : will have relatives, will be intelligent, 
skilful,, will have many friends and be pleasing to look at. 


154 Garga Hora 


1138. Moon-Mercury : will be fortunate, good-looking, 
learned, splendorous, plentiful, will have many friends and be 
very friendly. 


1139. Moon-Jupiter : will be free from diseases, be scho- 
larly, will conquer his enemies, will have growth and gain of 
money, be a great man and be dear to king. 


1140. Moon-Venus : will be free from diseases, be learned, 
will have excellent children, be truthful, eminent, will have 
attractive eyes and be fond of women. 


1141. Moon-Saturn : will be fond of praise, will have 
happiness of many kinds, will earn wide fame, be charitable 
disposed and will win over enemies. 


1142. Mars-Merciury : ‘will have plenty of gains, will 
conquer his five senses, be fond of Sastras, be eminent, be 
always happy and be of agreeable disposition. 


1143. Mars-Jupiter : will not be sinful, be very efficacious 
be modest, be always diligent and will care for Brahmins. 


1144. Mars-Venus : will be supreme by virtue of his 
religious vows and initiation, be well-read, enthusiastic, be of 
exalted rank, be patient, and will worship (be loyal to) the 
king. 

1145. Mars-Saturn: will be famously effcacious, will 
conquer his five senses, be courageous, eminent and will always 
enjoy abundant robes and ornaments. 


1146. Mercury-Jupiter : will be endowed with elephants | 
and horses, be splendorous, be pure, be of exalted rank, be. 
fond of visiting shrines and be skilful in all arts. 


1147. Mercury-Venus: will be endowed with many excel- 
lent pearls, will have many sons, be meritorious in his acts, 
be of good qualities, be pure in disposition (i.e. well disposed), 
and be dear to all. 


1148. Mercury-Sat urn : will have an auspicious wife, 
will himself be auspicious, be attached to well-meaning persons, 
be interested in yagnas and be always favourable to relatives. - 


Eleventh Bhava 155 


1149, Jupiter-Venus : will be extremely intelligent, will 
possess a pleasing face, will have a wife, be famous, will enjoy 
physical pleasures and be happy. 


1150. Jupiter-Saturn : will worship Brahmins; be very 
splendorous, very wealthy, lordly and famous. 


1151. Venus-Saturn : will be interested in raanv Sastras, 
be endowed with g2!d, and precious stones like cat’s eye, pearl 
and ruby, be a loyal citizen and be principled. 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN ELEVENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1152 to 1186) 


1152. Sun-Moon-Mars : will be endowed with hundreds 
of gains, be splend»rous, be justly disposed, will have beautiful 
eyes, will perform auspicious a¢ts and be free from desires. 


1153. Sut-Moon-Mercury : will have virtuous principles 
to follow, will reach an exalted rank, will possess attractive 
face and eyes, will be fond of women, be fond of truth and be 
very friendly disposed. 


1154. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : willbe very famous, will wor- 
ship Gods, will have many kinds of wealth and abundant 
sastraic knowledge, be highly learned, be famous and will be 
praised even by the confined. 


1155. Sun-Moon-Venus : will be free from diseases, be 
splendorous. pleasing in appearance, proficient, be dear to king 
and will always be at the service of the virtuous. 


1156. Sun-Moon-Saturn : will be endowed with happiness 
will be good-looking, will acquire abundant wealth, conveyan- 
ces, food and clothes, will have obedient servants and be firmly 
friendly in nature. 


1157. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will possess great brilliance, be 
a skilful justice, will possess a surprising physique and also 
ornaments, be free from desires, will have great vedic know- 
ledge, and be skilful in religious conduct. 


156 Garga Hora 


1158. Sun-Mars-Jupiter : will be highly intelligent, will 
possess an attractive physique, be a well-disposed person, be 
religious, and long-lived. 

1159, Sun-Mars-Venus : willbe very wealthy, be learned 


in Vedas, dear, grateful, will possess an attractive physique, 
and be interested is Sastras. 


1160. Sun-Mars-Sat urn : will be very intelligent very 
attractive, fortunate, religious and long lived. 

1161. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter : wil be gainful, will be skilful 
in orthodox laws, will adopt virtuous course, be very famous, 
be firm in disposition, be honoured and will reach an eminent 
rank. 


1162. Sun-Mercury-Venus: will be free from diseases, 
highly learned, be interested in Sastras, be endowed with love, 
will destroy enemies and will honour Brahmins. 


1163. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will be respected by all the 
kings, will be in initiated (into religious order), be very interes- 
ted in Sastras, will reach a very eminent position, and will 
honour Brahmins. 


1164. Sun-Jupiter- Venus : will. possess brilliance, be 
courageous, will consider virtue as his wealth, will have 
knowledge of justice, be of firm disposition and be respected by 
the king. 

1165. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn : will be valorous, be very rich, 
will have knowledge of many sacred precepts, be learned, 
and be peaceful. 


1166. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will be strong, delighted, 
modest, kind and will worship Gods and elders. 


1167. Moon-Mars-Mercury : will possess rich con- 
veyances, will earn by truthful means, 'be fond of people and 
be devoid of fear. 

1168. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be free from sweating and 


diseases, be liberal, fortunate, will possess a pleasing body, will 
have conveyances and be eminent. 


Eleventh Bhava 157 


1169. Moon-Mars-Venus : will be truthful and agrumen- 
tative, be a member (or assistant) of an assembly (or a meeting) 
will have all kinds of happiness, and will earn ornaments by 
worship of lord Siva (qaxgaifaa yruos). 


Note : ya is an epithet of Siva and hence it is interpreted 
as above. 


1170. Moon-Mars-Saturn : will earn wealth, be attractive, 
highly intelligent, pure and be a great man. 


1171. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter  : will be fond of joining 
assembly of skilful men, be eminent, learned, be a repository of 
varied arts and be happy through the pleasure of the ruler. 


1172. Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be endowed with comp- 
lexion akin to evening twilight, will be worshipped by the men 
of the world, will possess beautiful teeth and eyes, be fortunate, 
will destroy enemies, be fond of visiting shrines, and be 
amiable to Brahmins. 


1173. Moon-Mercury-Saturn: will be endowed with 
horses and elephants, will be a pleasing speaker, be merciful, 
will donate gold and be fond of sons. 


1174, Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be pure, will be endowed 
with a delightig face; will tend to become famous, be well- 
praised by the virtuous and be skilful. 


1175. Moor-Jupiter-Saturn: will be devoid of fear, be 
skilful in war preparations and activities related to war, fond 
of grapes (atatrfsaq) and learned in sastras. 


1176. Moon-Venus-Saturn : will have various (fafa) 
gains (aT#:), be delighted, be a delighting speaker and be 
delighting to eyes. 


1177. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be highly libidinous, 
will have an attractive physique, attractive feet and hands, will 
look highly beautiful and will be endowed with a number of 
horses and elephants. 


158 Garga Hora 


~ +1178, Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be interested in his duty 
(aAHIZ)., i: grateful, be highly learned, be very just, very 
patieat, bs a commendable speaker and be worshipped by the 
king. 


| 1179, Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be truthfully disposed, 
be good-looking, intelligent ("afea7), justly disposcd, praise- 
worthy and will be endowed with various gains from war. 


1180. Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be patiently disposed, will 
practise penance (a1feaaq). be honourable, be bereft of enemies 


and be endowed with knowledy: of religious rules, learning and 
ornaments. 


Notes: aafeq also means poor, miscrable, helpless, 
pitiable and ascctic. 


1181. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be learned, liberal in 
speech, fortunate, will have an attractive body, be fond of 
horses, and be wealthy with all kinds of 1: appiness. 


1182. Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be beautiful, firm in 
disposition and friendship, will be endowed with good history, 
and be free from disputes. 


1183. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will have attractive 
appearance be, endowed with elephants, horses and wealth, be 
cautious, endowed -with good qualities, and highly learned in 
Sastras. 


1184. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be very patient, will 
have many sons, will possess wide learning and vast number of 
ornaments, will be blessed with meritorious acts, and be very 
kind. 


1185. Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be fond of obtaining 
distinction, be a king, principal person, be highly praised and 
fond of visiting shrines. 


1186. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be splendorous, will 
have mellifluous voice, be a very important person of the whole 
dynasty, be virtuous and wealthy. 


Eleventh Bhava 159 
EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN ELEVENTH BHA VA 


(From Rule 1187 to 1222) 


1187. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will be endowed with 
great wealth, be fortunate, will win over enemies, will be very 
liberal and will destroy others (7~4¢4>7). 


1188. Sun-Mvon-Mars-Jupiter +: will have many children 
(ag7H ), will be justly disposed, be acquainted with the king 
(qas), will defeat enemies, and will be famously efficacious. 


Notes : ag4q has been given in the s!oka indicating that 
the native will have many children. gy means a king apart 
from son. We have denoted a king here as 1 (to be acquainted 
with) appears in the text. There is no question of one's getting 
acquainted with his own son and hence it is only right to 
understand that the native will know the king. 


1189. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus_ : will gain gold, pearl, ruby 
and robes, will be broad-minded, and be a royal employee. 


1190, Sun-Moon-Mars-Sat urn: will be very kind, be capa- 
ble of grieving others, be dear to king and be highly spendorous. 


_ L191. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be valorous, 
virtuous, very learned, worth worship, and endowed with good 
qualities. 
1192. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be endowed with 
learning by nature, be learned a poet, be well-acquainted with 
Vedas, and be helpful to people. 


1193. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be of gracious 
disposition (statasila4), will honour great men (or teachers) 
(suey Tear), will have great learning and will enjoy war. 

1194. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus: will be fond of sastras, 
will enjoy fame, be interested in virtues, will be dear and 
. learned. 

1195. Sunt-Moon-Jupiter-Satur n: willbe highly efficacious, 


will exhibit valour, be interested in donating to others and be 
very intelligent. 


160 Garga Hora 


1196. Sun-Moon-Venus-Sarurn : will be famous, liberal 
and kind, be bereft of diseases and will be pleased among 
brahmins. 


1197. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will enjoy good convey- 
ances, will crush his enemies, be efficacious and will be expert 
in justice. 


1198. Sun-Mars-Mercury- Venus: will be liberal in speech, 
be attached to good men, be fond of king and be valorous. 


1199, Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn —: will enjoy elaborate 
arrangements (i.e. all paraphernalia), will be an expert artisan 
and will possess abundant wealth and a number of conveyances. 


1200. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be fond of relatives, 
will be a repository of all kinds of happiness, will be highly 
satisfied, and be very modest. 


1201. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be highly rich, be 
liked by women, and be endowed with good history, learning 
and Vedic knowledge. 


1202. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be endowed with 
splendour be skilled in all arts, skilful, and merciful, and be 
charitable. 


1203. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be highly famous, 
be devoid of desires, and will possess beautiful eyes and good 
qualities. 


1204. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be served by 
others, will follow religious observations, will possess a body 
free from injuries or will be free from malice in thought 
(xigfaafsary), will hold aloft flag of charity, and will not be 
mean (i. e. will be great). 


1205. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Saturn ;: willbe firmin disposi- 
tion, be free from fear and sins, will surprise in speech, and 
be learned in Vedas. 


1206. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will acquire several gains, 
be delighted and be agreeable to people. 


Eleventh Bhava 161 


1207. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be endowed with 
great learning and abundant riches, be a ruler, will destory his 
enemies and be quite charitable. 


1208. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : Not available. 


1209. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will have (self) res- 
traint, will eat Brahmin's food, will possess a good physique, 
be very patient, very charitable and will be pleasing to look at. 


1210. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be expert in dealing 
with machinery, will honour teachers, will be intelligent, will 
have all kinds of happiness and be plentiful. 


1211. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn: will be a ruler, will 
join good men, will enjoy plenty of food and drinks, and will 
be in the company of skilful men. 


1212. Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be lord of kings 


(i.e. be an emperor), will be endowed with horses, be valorous 
and be scholar. 


1213. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be a king with 
seas as boundaries of his kingdom, will eliminate his enemies 
and will perform very charitable acts. 


1214. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be splendorous, 
be an auspicious speaker (or will speak only good words), be a 
leader of scholars, be a lord of the earth, and be agreeable to 
Brahmins. 


1215. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be good-looking, 
be a ruler, be interested in visiting shrines, be a principal 
person, and be skilful in war. 


Notes : eflanafa and wtfaaray appear separately in the 
text, which indicate respectively a king and anemperor. We 
may infer that the: native will reach height of prosperity in his 
life. 


1216. Moon-Jupiter-Venus- Saturn : will be bright in appea 
rance, will perform meritorious acts, will win over his enemies, 
will be a ruler and be well-versed in Sastras. 


162 Garga Hora 


1217. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will enjoy all kinds of 
happiness, wu suffer from windy complaints, be distinguished, 
be a ruler and a scholar. 


1218. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be valorous, be 
a lord, will destroy his enemies, will have an attractive face 
and be charitable. 


1219. Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturi : will be strong or fat 
(g94), will carry out royal orders, be valorous, be devoid of 
fear and be dear to Brahmins. 


Notes : gqq also means rich, eminent, perfect, magnifi- 
cently provided etc. 


. 1220. Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be endowed with 
many sons, abundant wealth and great justice, be a ruler and 
be devoid of enemies. 

1221. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be highly \car- 
ned, be lord of the earth, and be interested in Vedic studies. 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN ELEVENTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 1222 to 1242) 


1222. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be virtuous, 
be enthusiastic, be a king, be highly wealthy, and a skilful 
- Warrior. 


1223. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be an excellent 
person, be learned in vedas, be not artifical in disposition, 
be a ruler and be meritorious. 


1224. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be valorous, 
be highly bashful, be a king, be cautious, grateful, fierce and 
be bold in war. 


1225. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be endowed 
with Sons, riches, happiness and pleasures, wise and be a king. 


1226. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will have many 
sons, will follow religious observations, be delighted in dispo- 
sition and be highly greedy. 


Eleventh: Bhava 163 


» 1227.Sun-Moon- Mars-Venus-Saturn — : will be agreat scho- 
lar, will be honoured by + he king, will be endowed with the 
wealth of elephants (i.e. will have a large number of convey- 
ances), and be averse to sinful acts. 


1228. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus —: will have many 
children, will be highly virtuous, be versed in justice, be 
delighted and be very friendly. 


1229. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be fond of 
brahmins, be dear to women, be very bashful and famous. 


1230. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : willbe in the 
midst of kings, be charitable, virtuous, and be very wealthy. 


1231. Sun- Moon-Jupiter-' Venus-Saturn : will be endowed 
with virtues, will please others, will possess beautiful eyes, be 
interested in Agamas (3177), and be famous. 


1232. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will respect 
parents at all times, be pleasing, be a scholar and be patient. 


1233. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be -chief 
among the men of his dynasty, will have even enemies honour 
him, be very virtuous and be very charitable. 


1234. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will observe 
religious vows and fastings, will be devoted to Gods and 
Brahmins, charitably disposed, be truthful and kind. 


1235. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be spledorous, 
be learned in many Sastras, be virtuous and pure. 


1236. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be interes- 
ted in learning, will respect Gods and Brahmins, be inimical 
to others and_ be intelligent. 


1237. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter- Venus : will be kind, 
be endowed with service or duty, will have beautiful face and 
be worshipped by reltatives. 


1238. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn * will be honou- 
red by the ruler, be skilful in agricultural work, be injured, be 
devoid of enemies and be endowed with wealth. 


1239. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be endo- 


164 Garga Hora 


wed with sastraic learning and wealth, will destroy his enemies, 
be a ruler and be highly skilful in sastras. 

1240. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have abun- 
dant learning, be great, will have beautiful knees, and be free 
from sickness. 

1241. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be inte- 
rested in poetry and tales, be valorous and. charitable. 

1242. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be faith- 
ful, be abundantly wealthy, be famous, will have many sons, 
and be endowed with elaborate eating comforts. 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN ELEVENTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1243 to 1250) 

1243. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be 
endowed with prosperity, learning and wealth, be grateful and 
be firmly valorous. 

1244. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be 
interested in visiting shrines, be intelligent, be learned and be 
devoid of diseases. 

1245. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be 
highly learned, be splendorous, will have knowledge of religious 
commandments, be worshipped and be virtuous. 

1246. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will hon- 
our Brahmins (or the learned), be interested in listening to 
divine stories, be famous and be learned in sastras. 


1247. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
fond of gardens etc., devoted to Gods, be distinguished, be 
attached to the virtuous and be expert in Sastras. 


Note : Rule 1247 is in continuation of 1246. 

1248. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be 
truthful, be chiefin his race, be very wise and be skilful in 
singing. 

1249. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn: will be 


head of all kings (i. e. be an emperor), be distinguished, and 
be not delighted. but be endowed with elephants and horses. 


13 


Twelfth Bhava 


EFFECTS OF 2 PLANETS IN TWELFTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1250 to 1270) 


1250. Sun-Moon : will be short-lived, be charitable and 
ugly, will do the others’ jobs, and will always join bad men. 


1251. Sun-Mars : will be distressed, will have an emacia- 
ted body, be troubled by others, be highly sinful, wicked and 
devoid of good qualities. 


1252. Sun-Mercury : will be devoid of sickness, will 
expend on bad missions, be cruel, miserly, dull, not virtuous 
and be fond of war. 


1253. Sun-Jupiter : will have vices, be dirty sickly, ungra- 
teful, will make futile cfforts, and be devoid of religion. 


1254. Sun-Venus : will have little happiness, be ugly, be 
distressed due to the vices of his wicked wife, be fond of sins, 
and be troubled by his libidinous disposition. 


1255. Moon-Mars : will be inimical to the public, intere- 
sted in base men, and will be burdened by expenses on bad 
deeds. 


1256. Moon-Mars : will be hard-hearted, will have mean 
professions, will be fond of a high degree of purity, be fear- 
stricken, and be not virtuous. 


1257. Moon-Mercury: will indulge in quarrels, be indigent, 
distressed, be very fear-stricken and be devoid of splendour. 


166 Garga Hora 


1258. Moon-Jupiter : will be harsh in speech, will possess 
an ugly body, be interested in living in other countries, be 
devoid of wealth and be not friendly. 


1259. Moon-Venus : will be bereft of wealth, be burdened 
by expenses, be a servant, be wiked, be unkind and be 
distressed due to sensuousness. 


1260. Moon-Saturn : will have base wife. base sons, in- 
ferior grains and enmity, be shameless, and be devoid of 
valour. 


1261. Mars-Mercury : will be ugly to look at, be shame- 
less, be troubled by many diseases, be not sensible, and be 
bereft of truth and purity. 


1262. Mars-Jupiter : will be very infamous, be sexually 
distressed, be miserable, be burdened by expenses, be at the 
disposal of others, and be troubled by relatives. 


1263. Mars-Venus : will not have much wealth, be dist- 
ressed due to sons, be not charitable, be always sick, be very 
mean and be ungrateful. 


1264. Mars-Saturn : will be devoid of learning of Sastras 
and religious commandments, be troubled by wounds, boils 
etc., will suffer eye diseases, be unlucky and be sexually dist- 
ressed. 


1265. Mercury-Jupiter : will he principally an atheist 
(or a degraded brahmin), be unkind, be endowed with sons and 
relatives, be defeated by woman, and be il!usioned. 


1266. Mercury-Venus : will be merciless, will have many 
enemies, will be of bad disposition, be inimical. and be devoid 
of learning and money. 


1267. Mercury-Saturn : will be very cunning, be destres- 
sed due to vices, will wear dirty robes, be in the custody of 
females and be disappointed. 


1268. Jupiter-Venus : will be bereft of quadrupeds and 
servants, will suffer from a number of diseases, will lose his 
wealth, will be hard-hearted and be defeated by enemies 


Twelfth Bhava 167 


1269, Jupiter-Saturn : will be hard-hearted, be defeated, 
by women, be in the company of people, be timid, sinful and 
be blameworthy. 


1270. Venus-Saturn : will cheat others. be devoid of 
history, be sick, will wander aimlessly and be’ without 
friends. 


EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN TWELFTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1271 to 1304) 


1271-Sui-Moon-Mars will be a skilful sinner, be fond of 
gambling, be ungrateful, be always diseased, and will blame 
brahmins. 


1272. Sun-Moon-Mercury : will be poor, sick, illiterate, 
will be subjected to many trouble, be wicked, miserly, very 
greedy, libidinous and will wear dirty clothes. 


1273. Sun-Moon-Jupiter : will be interested in bad society, 
will be ugly, be devoid of religion, will, blame others and be 
bereft of virtues, intelligence and sastraic learning. 


1274, Sun-Moon-Venus : will have weak neck due to 
sufferance from hunger, will lose bodily vigour, will be una- 
bashed, be ugly, distressed and unfriendly. 


1275. Sun-Moon-Saturn +: will suffer from tuberculosis, be 
distressed due to phlegmatic diseases, be not splendorous, be 
reduced to great troubles and will suffer in the hands of 
enemies. 


1276. Sun-Mars-Mercury : will.suffer from tuberculosis, 
be a dunce, be willainous, be devoid of sastraic learning, 
be interested in tale-bearers and will incur royal displea- 
sures. 


1277. Sun-Mars-Jupiter : will lose his wealth, will have a 
number of evil friends, be dull-witted, be devoid of shame, will 
have ill-gotten money and acquire a bad wife. 


1278. Sut-Mars-Venus : willbe sexually distressed, be 
very base, be devoid of good history, be very distressed sick 
and be fond of quarrels. 


168 Garga Hora 


1279, Sun-Mars-Saturn : will be distressed due to heavy 
expenses, be interested in bad acts, be a dunce, ‘be free from 
fear of imprisonment and will be averse to Sastras. 


1280. Sunt-Mercury-Jupiter : will be libidinous, blame- 
worthy, be very short- -tempered, be meritorious, ugly, unlucky 
and will not be praised in the society. 


1281. Sun-Mercury-Venus : will be cunning, hard-hearted, 
be devoid of distinction, be interested in tale-bearers, will 
have an ugly appearance an will be devoid of desire and enthu- 
siasm. 


1282. Sun-Mercury-Saturn : will not be in the company 
of good men, be not wealthy, bz a dunce and wicked. be 
interested in others, wives, will expend on bad missions and 
will incur royal wrath. 


1283. Sun-Jupiter-Saturn : will not be wealthy, be a 
servant, be bad in disposition, be wicked and distressed out of 
fear. 


1284. Sun-Jupiter-Venus : will be impetuous, will eat 
others* food, be very mean, and be devoid of wisdom, learning 
‘and education. 


1285. Sun-Venus-Saturn : will be timid, valorous, devoid 
of justice, devoid of virtues and be fear-stricken. 


Notes : The text reads WYSTAIT. UTAHAST 
which means timid, valorous..... . fear stricken. As the 
quality of timidity and valour cannot be simultaneously present 
it may be that at one stage, the native will be timid and yet at 
some time be valorous. 


1286. Moon-Mars-Mercury : will b2 devoid of wealth and 
wisdom, be ill-tempared, unjust, will have many enemies, and 
will be3a warrior. 


1287. Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be libidinous, blame- 
worthy, be devoid of sons, be interested in others’ jobs, be 
wicked, and be .fear-filled. 


Twelfth Bhava 169 


1288. Moon-Mars-Venus : will:-be base, fond of gambling 
merciless, splendorous, miserly, and be troubled by enemies. 


1289. Moon-Mars-Saturn. : will have a_ bad (diseased) 
body, be devoid of his rélatives, be deféated by females and' be 
wicked in disposition. 

1290. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will be devoid of kindness 
and be highly afflicted. 

1291. Moon-Mercury-Venus : will be devoid of sexual 
desires, be impetuous, indecisive or uncertain, be interested in 
sinful men, and be bereft of parents. 

1292. Moon-Mercury-Saturn : will be distressed due to 
vices, be greedy, base, unfaithful and will cheat others. 


1293. Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be unwealthy, shameless, 
unwise, fond of war and. be dishonoured. 

1294. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be wicked, highly sinful 
and will have many vices. 

1295. Moon-Venus-Saturn : will be base, will join base 
‘men, will be defeated by base men, be himself very base and 
be devoid of pleasures and virtues. 


1296. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will be highly distressed by 
abundant fear and peacelessness, be very proud, be interested 
in good stories, and will honour religious oblations, Brahmins 
and Gods. 

1297. Mars-Mercury-Venus : will be illiterate, unfortunate 
very pious, merciful and be devoid of affection. 

1298. Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be devoid of learning, 
pleasures and wealth, be hard hearted, and will have bad 
soiis. 

1299. Mars-Jupiter-Satura : will be wicked, will wander 
fruitlessly, will indulge in irreligious acts, be splendorous and 
just. 

1300. Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : will be interested in stealing, 
be wounded, ungrateful, devoid of sastraic knowledge, and be 
not valorous. 


Notes :'The text does not give the effects of Mars- 


170 Garga Hora 


Jupiter-Venus Yoga in 12th. In both the corresponding verses 
(ie. 1299 and 1300), the words wlqiqtsatsqzt are found, 
meaning "Mars, Jupiter and Saturn" and hense these relate to 
Mars-Jupiter-Saturn conjunction in the 12th. 


1301. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be devoid of wisdom, 
wife, visit to shrines, sons and shame, will also be distressed 
by fear. 


1302. Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will not be wise, be very 
cunning, be delighted and fierce in act 


1303. Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will be highly miserable, 
will befriend wicked men, and be wise and intelligent. 


1304. Jupiter-Venus-Saturn: will kill brahmins, be not 
splendorous, will wear rags, depend on others and be devoid of 
relatives. 


EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS IN THE TWELFTH BHA VA 
(From Rule 1305 to 1336) 


1305. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury : will be subjected to 
much troubles, will be distressed due to sinful tendencies, and 
will not beget desired food. 


1306. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter : will be ungrateful, be not 
splendorous, be ugly, will fear much and will have enemies. 


1307. Sun-Moon-Mars--Venus —: will be troubled by others 
will have wife and sons, be highly respected. and be highly 
sinful 


1308. Sun-Moon-Mars-Saturn : will not be intelligent, be 
highly “distinguished’ for his vices, be devoid of obstructions 
and will not be splendorous 


1309. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter : will not be bright, will 
be very distressed due to diseases. be very timid and will be 
devoid of fame. 


1310.Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus  : will not have splendour, 
be bereft of wisdom and truth, be fierce and averse to sinful 
acts. 


Twelfth Bhava 171 


1311. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Saturn +: will suffer from 
serious diseases, be ungrateful, will join mean men and be 
mean-minded. 


7 ~ 1312. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus : will be highly ill-tempered 
will not have intelligence and money, be not bashful and. will 
be interested in wars. 


1313. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Saturn : will be timid, will suffer 
from diseases of the rectum, will have burning sensation (or 
will be thirsty), and be not splendorous. 


1314. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will not be learned in 
Sastras, will have many vices, will not follow good path and 
will suffer from many diseases. 


1315. Sun-Mars-Mercury- Venus : will be interested in base 
men, will be highly afflicted, will eat bad food, take bad drinks 
and be very ill-tempered. 


1316. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Saturn: .will suffer from phleg- 
matic and windy diseases, will not be virtuous, and will be 
able to guess others’ mind. 


1317. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus: will expend on bad 
missions, will be highly ill-tempered, will have less sastraic 
learning, and be mean-minded. 


1318. Sun-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will be troubled by base 
men, will himself be very mean, be distressed and will have 
miserable sons. 


1319. Sun-Mercury<Venus-Jupiter +: will not be kind, will 
have a wicked wife, be mean-minded and will be bereft of 
wealth. 


1320. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will have an injured 
physique, will possess a prominent wife, will be free from fear 
of imprisonment. will face destruction of wealth. 


1321. Sun-Mercury-Venus-Saturn + will not be faithful, 
will accuse Brahmins, be a miser, will have an emaciated physi- 
que and be dull-witted. 


172 . Garga:Hora 


1322. Sun-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn- : will suffer on account of 
: . his own kindness, will not have preceptors and will not have a 
job to do. (i.e. will be devoid of livelihood). 
1323. tyoon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will not be patient, 
“will be very ill-tempered will lose truthful disposition and will 
be devoid of wife. — 


1324. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus : will bea miser, will 
suffer from sickness, be devoid of desires and will be troubled 


by kings and thieves. 

1325. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn . will ‘suffer from 
bilious complaints, will be devoid of preceptors, and. will be 
miserable on account of female company. 


1326. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be very fierce in 
disposition, will invite risks, will indulge in inimical activities, 
will be expelled out of his caste and will be blamed by the 
society. 

1327. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Saturn : willbe very afflicted, 
will be interested in others’ wives, will expend on bad _ things 
and will suffer from diseases. 


1328. Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn * : will be bereft of sons, 
will resemble ‘fire* in appearance, will be interested in sinful 
tales, will be defeated by females and servants. 


1329. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be a_ bad 
master, be not pure, will: be devoid of wealth, be unkind, be 
fond of intoxicant drinks and will have bad disposition. 


1330. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn *: will: he mean, 


‘irascible, uncharitable, defeated by. women be unkind and will 
not demonstrate or prove himself. 


1331. Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will be impetuous, 
wicked, will have an injured ‘body, will have burning sensation 
and will be blamed ‘by people. 


1332. Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will he devoid of 
-wisdom, be not virtuous, be troubled by .others and be a 
miser. 


Dwelfth Bhava 173 


1333. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will not be bright, be 
deformed (or distressed), be ugly, be blameworthy and be bereft 
‘of . friendship. 


1334. Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be sinful, defea- 
ted, be troubled by women, will have little. education, be 
dejected and fear-stricken. 

1335, Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be mean, will. join 
had -people, will adopt others’ religion, will spend on bad 
things and be amiable to brahimns. 

1336. Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be shameless, 
‘unfriendly, will suffer from lever disorders and_ will incur royal 
displeasures. 


EFFECTS OF 5 PLANETS IN TWELFTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 1337 to 1357) 

1337. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter : will wear rags, 
‘be devoid of affection, will have enemies, be greedy, will per- 
form his duties and be delighted. 

1338. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus © ;: will indulge in 
‘bad-acts, will be friend bad peoples, be blameworthy, be ee 

sick and be troubled by relatives. 


_ 1339. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Saturn : will be interested 
in Moslims, be. attached to others* women, and will serve bad 
_ society. 

1340. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus : will be devoid of 
shame, be against society, will have blameworthy religion and 
. .blameworthy business. 


“1341. Sun-Moon-M. ais Tipe: Skit. : will be very miser- 


able, be subjected to troubles out of diseases, will always be 
sick, be, timid and will have little wealth. 


1342. Sun-Moon-Mars-Venus-Saturn : will -be devoid of 
fame, be interested in drinks, be cunning in disposition, be 
hard-hearted, fierce and inimical. 


1343. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be quite 


174 Garga Hora 


miserable, be interested in wicked peoples* company, be highly 
phlegmatic, be dull-witted and blameworthy. 

1344. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be inimical 
to his castemen, will be devoid of good qualities and be 
artificial in disposition. 

1345 Sun-Moon-Mercury-Venus-Saturn: will be a princi- 
pal cheat, be very cruel, and will be won over by mean people. 

1346. Sun-Moon-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be very rich, 
be sensuous, beameworthy, fierce and timid. 

1347. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be bereft of 
mercy, will lose his wife and children, will eat varaciously and 
will be harsh in speech. 

1348. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn: will be devoid 
of wealth, wife and vices. be harsh, inimical and bad in dis- 
position. 

1349. Sun-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn —: will not be weal- 
thy, be fierce, be fond of quarrels, be ugly and will cheat 
others. 

1350. Sun-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will suffer from 
various kinds of diseases, will be interested in befriending bad 
people, will be very libidinous and be timid. 

1351. Sun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be dull- 
witted, will have a bad body, will have have fearful eyes, be 
inimical to brahmins, be defeated by enemies and be impetuous. 


1352, Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be fond of 
stealing, be against, greatness, be devoid of his own men and 
will have wounded body. 

1353. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will become 
strayed, be against friendly principles, be not kind and be 
irascible. | 

1354. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn :'will betray, be 
illiterate, be devoid of wife, and sons, and will be inimical to 
the king. 

1355. Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will be interested 
in mean women, be interested in undesirable friendship, religion 
and learning and be very sinful. 


Twelfth Bhava 175 


1356. Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will always be 
troubled by injuries, will be possessing bad thinking, be shame- 
less be not splendorous and be _ ugly. 


1357, Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn . ‘will be devoid 
of wealth, be fierce, be fond of quarrels and will have loss of 
wisdom and _ wealth. 


EFFECTS OF 6 PLANETS IN TWELFTH BHAVA 
(From Rule 1358 to 1364) 


1358, Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus : will be 
devoid of brightness, be interested in joining others* side, wil! 
obstruct brahmins and will cheat others. 


1359. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn : will be 
ungrateful, will have many enemies, be not bashful and will 
be in a position to guess others’ mind 


1360. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Venus-Saturn : will be 
quite sickly be bereft of money and sons, be unkind, miser 
and will have a beautiful wife. 


1361. Sun-Moon-Mars-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will have 
short life, be devoid of fame and money, will make futile 
efforts and be ill-tempered. 


1362. Sun-Moun-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will 
always be indolent, will be devoid of wisdom and wealth, and 
will have wicked wife and wicked sons. 


1363. Sun-Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-. Venus-Saturn : (conti- 
nued) : will have no place to resort, will derive mean _plea- 
sures, will suffer from penury, be untruthful and not virtuous. 


1364. Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will hate 
brahmins, be bereft of fame and happiness, be not splendorous 
and will suffer from many diseases. 


EFFECTS OF 7 PLANETS IN TWELFTH BHA VA 


1365. Sun-Moon-Mars-Mercury-Jupiter-Venus-Saturn : will 
indulge in inimical activities, will not be self-repected, will 
always suffer from penury and will be devoid of wealth and 
grains. 


FINE 


