17. 


18. 


Garga Hora 


by 


Sage Gargacarya 


SUTRAS 


J upiter in his own house along with Saturn and Mercury will bestow long life. Such native 
often will beget wealth. 

Should V enus be in Pisces along with J upiter and the M oon, the native will acquire kingly 
fortunes and will have many sons and family. 

Should the A scendant be in a malefic Rasi, while the Lord thereof occupies the 7" house 
and J upiter is posited in the 8" along with the Sun, the child will die at the age of eight. 

If Mercury and Mars be together in the A scendant, or 6", or 8", the native will either be a 
thief, or will indulge in awful acts. Such a person will have defect in his hands and legs. 
Mercury in the A scendant, or 6", or 8 can cause death at the age of 4. Even if the native is 
dipped in nectar, it will be of no avail. 

Mars and J upiter in exchange in Rasi will inflict death at the age of 12. Even though Lord 
Siva may desire to save the person, it is rare to escape death in such a case. 

Should J upiter occupy a house of Mars identical with 2", 6", or 8" from Lagna, this child 
doubtlessly will face death in its sixth year. 

If Rahu occupies the A scendant at birth, while the Moon is in the 6"/9", the child will die 
within 20 days of birth. Similar effects will prevail, if Rahu is in the 4°" from Lagna, while 
the M oon occupies one of the angles. 

Death will be inflicted by R ahu in the 7” from Lagna, while the M oon is in the A scendant. 
Even nectar will not be useful to him and the death will come to pass in the 10” year of the 
child. 

If the Moon isin the 12" from Lagna, while malefics are in the 6"" house, the native will be 
shortlived. H e will suffer from stomachial disorders. 

If Rahu occupies the 9", or the 10", the native will die at 16, though Indra, Lord of Lords, 
may try to protect him. 

D eath will come to pass at the age of 20, if Saturn and the Sun are in exchange R aci. 

If Rahu is in the A scendant, while the M oon is in the 6" (or both of them being together 
in the 6") will promote diseases in the rectum, indigestion and deficiency of a limb. 

pea will be caused due to leprosy, or tuberculosis, if the Sun is in 8", while Saturn is in 
6”, 

If the Sun is in the Ascendant at birth, the native will be subjected to mental worries and 
will have no place of his own. 

The child will die instantly, if R ahu is in the Ascendant, or in &" and is in aspect to the 
M oon. Even Indra cannot save such child. 

The native will have a life-span of 100 years, if two Angles are occupied by J upiter and 
Venus, while the Sun is in 12 and Mercury is in Lagna. 

There will be no Arishtas (evils), if Jupiter is in an Angle, or in a Trine, or in own 
H ouse/exaltation House, as the Lagna. This will be so throughout the life. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25: 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30. 


at, 


32: 


33: 


34. 


30: 


36. 


3t 


38. 


39: 


40. 


There will be no evils whatsoever, if one of J upiter, Venus and Mercury is in an Angle and 
with positional strength. 

There is no evil whatsoever, if Saturn happens to be in the A scendant, 3", or the 6" and be 
at the same time in Libra, A quarius, or Capricorn. 

If the 2™ from the Ascendant is tenanted by Rahu, Mercury, Venus, Saturn and the Sun 
together, the mother will die soon. A Iternatively it can be the father of the child. 

If the Sun is in Leo, or in Aries identical with the 6", or the 11" and is aspected by a 
friendly planet, the evils, if any are simply counteracted. 

Should R ahu be in the A scendant identical with A ries, Taurus, or Cancer and be in aspect 
to a benefic planet, no evil exists in the horoscope. 

R ajaY oga is caused, if Saturn and the M oon are in the Lagna, while its trines are occupied 
by the Sun and J upiter. M ars should be simultaneously in the 10" house. 

Should the Sun be in the 9" in Leo, the native will not have a surviving co-born. If 
however, one exists, he becomes a king. 

If Rahu is in Karma Sthana i.e. the 10 house, identical with own house and in the 
company of Mars, Mercury and Venus, the native will sometimes prosper and yet 
sometimes will have downfall. 

The subject is born in a mean descent, if malefics are in the 2"?, Rahu is in the 3 and 
Jupiter is in the 5". 

If the Sun etc. (i.e. other malefics) are in the 4", 5" and 9", the native will lose his first 
issue, while the later ones may survive. 

Should malefics be in the 2"? along with M ars and Saturn, while R ahu is in the 3", the co- 
born will not survive. 

Chatra Y oga is formed, if all planets are in the A scendant, 2", 7" and 12", he will become 
a leader of his race. 

If the Ascendant is occupied by Venus, 12" by Mercury and the 2™ by a malefic, a 
R ajaY oga is formed and the native becomes a king. 

If the Ascendant is occupied by Venus, 12" by Mercury and the 2™ by a malefic, a 
R ajaY oga is formed and the native becomes a king. If the Sun is in the 12", the subject 
will be subjected to penury. 

The relatives of the native will perish, if the 12" and the 7 are occupied by malefics, 
while the 2" by benefics. 

There is a RajaY oga, if the Moon and Saturn are in the 2%, while J upiter occupies A ries 
and Rahu with Venus is in the 10". 

Should malefics be in the 2%, 8" and 12", the native will lose his eyes in his 8", or 12" 
year of age. 

The co-born will not survive, if Mars is in the 8" house. Similar effects prevails, if he joins 
R ahu and Saturn in the 7*" house. 

The results concerning Karma Sthana (i.e. 10 house) will be meagerly felt, if Mars 
aspects the 10" house occupying Aries, or Scorpio, while Mercury is associated with 
malefics. 

The native will head many people, if J upiter is in Leo, while V enus is in virgo, Saturn is in 
Gemini and Marsin the 4" identical with own house. 

Should Saturn be in Virgo along with the Moon, while Mars is in the sign Capricorn, 
R ahu in A quarius and, J upiter in Leo, the native will destroy the band of his enemies. One 
born with such planetary array will not be an ordinary man. He will advance his family to 
a good state and enjoys R ajaY oga. 

The native will indulge in notorious acts at the age of 20 (i.e. from his 20" year), if Venus 
isin Sagittarius, the Sun in A quarius and Mars in Pisces simultaneously. 


60. 


Should a malefic be in the 11" house, while the 5" is occupied by Venus and the M oon, 
the native’s first issue will be a female and such female’s mothers will be subjected to 
many troubles. 

There will be destruction of relatives, if the 4" is occupied by Rahu, the 2™ by J upiter 
and the 6", or the 9" by Mercury. 

Should the 9°" be occupied by Jupiter, Mercury, Venus and the Moon, the subject 
acquires success in all his undertakings and will be honoured by a king. 

If both malefics and benefics occupy severally the 6", 8", 5", 9 and the 12", the native 
will be honoured by the king. But he will face many hardships in life. 

If the 5", 6", 8" and 9" are occupied by, respectively, Mars, Rahu, Venus and the Sun, 
the native will protect his own people. 

If the Ascendant is occupied by Saturn and the Moon, while Venus is posited in the 8", 
the subject will be highly libidinous. Though he will be honoured by a King, he can not 
enjoy any kind of happiness. 

If the Moon is in Capricorn at birth along with debilitated J upiter, or with an inimical 
planet and aspected by Saturn, the native will be a source of evil to his own co-born. 

Should Rahu be in Gemini, while M ars isin Leo and J upiter in Scorpio, the native will be 
equal to a king. 

If at birth Saturn occupies A quarius, Mars Capricorn and the Moon Aries, while the 2° 
house is occupied by the Sun, the subject will enjoy paternal wealth, or his own wealth. 

If Mercury and the Sun occupy the 10", while Rahu is in the 6”, the native will lord over 
many. 

If the Sun is in the 10 in Leo, or Saturn in Libra identical with the 6", or the Moon and 
Mercury in the 9 in Gemini, a RajaY oga is formed. 

Jupiter in Lagna, while V enus isin the 12" holding the other planets in between indicates 
R ajaY oga, this is to the advantage of the native’s family to become strong (in all respects). 

The native doubtlessly becomes a king, if J upiter is in the 8° and Venus is in the 3%. All 
others should be between them. 

One born in Libra Lagna with exalted Saturn, while J upiter is in Taurus, the Moon in 
Gemini, Mars in Capricorn, Venus in Leo and Mercury in Virgo along with the Sun, will 
have R ajaY oga; he will maintain justice, good deeds and auspiciousness in his life. He will 
however cause Balarishta in the 8", or the 12" year. The native will, however, later on 
prove inauspicious for the elder brother, or sister. 

If Libra happens to be the 2"¢ house, or an angle and is occupied by a malefic, the native 
only faces sheer poverty. He will not prove a good augury for his own people. 

Should the Moon be in the 10, while Venus is in the 7” and malefics in the 4", the 
native’s dynasty ends with him and there will be no further descent in his race. 

The mother of the native will not survive, if Saturn is in the 2%, Rahu in the 3 and 
J upiter is in Pisces. 

Should Mars be in the 7", while Venus is in the 8" followed by the Sun in the %", the 
native will be short lived. 

If J upiter is in the A scendant, while Mars is not in the 7™ and Venus is not in the 8" and 
the Sun is not in the 9" an auspicious Y oga is caused. Such a native will live a long lease of 
life, will have many co-borns, will head many people (i.e. employ many and feed them), 
will be happy, will lead himself and his co-born to a prosperous level, be free from proud 
conduct and be pleased in all aspects of life. 

If Saturn is in Cancer, while R ahu is in Taurus, the native will be very liberal, will enjoy 
numerous Y ogas, i.e. will reach a very high state in life, will be famous, will be chief in his 


él. 


62. 


63. 


64. 


race and will marry many women. If, however, the said Saturn is lonely and aspects the 5", 
there is only one marriage. 

The native will meet with his end, if Jupiter and R ahu are together in the A scendant, or 
the 4°". The end will be in the 13 year even, if Lord Siva may try to save him. (That is, 
death in 13" year is certain). 

If Mars occupies the 8", while the Sun is in fall in the 5", or the 9" and J upiter must be 
in accelerated motion. The native is blessed by Lakshmi, the Goddess of Wealth. 

Should Venus be in Pisces along with Mercury, while the Ascendant, 2"? and 3° are, 
respectively, tenanted by the Sun, Moon and Mars, a Raja Y oga is constituted. One born 
under this kind of planetary array will respect Gods and preceptors. He will achieve such 
fame in his own native country and abroad as well, that cannot be achieved by others. 

It the 12". is occupied by Jupiter, while the 2"? house has Saturn, Sun, Mars and 
Mercury, the father of the native will pass away at the time of marriage of the native. 

If Jupiter is in the 3°, while the planet Venus is in the 11" the native will be famous 
among his relatives and will shine, like a lamp among the men of his race. 

If Venus in the Ascendant is unaspected by anyone, while the Moon is in the 2"? and 
Jupiter is in the 3", the native cannot enjoy any paternal earnings. 

Should Mars and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo and Rahu is in Gemini, the 
child will lose its mother (early). 

Should M ars and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo and Rahu isin Gemini, this 
will cause poverty in childhood and happiness in the later part, if the M oon join Mars. 

If Lagna happens to be a malefic sign and is occupied by the said malefic Lagna Lord 
himself, while one among the 4°, 7 and the 10" being a malefic sign is occupied by its 
own malefic lord, the child will live only upto six. He will prove inauspicious to its mother. 
A dditionally, there will be destruction of maternal relatives, if the 6 house is unaspected 
by J upiter. 

The child, who has the Sun in Leo, a malefic in Virgo and R ahu in a malefic’s house will 
only live for six years. 

The longevity is only for 19 years, if the Moon isin the 8", malefics in angles and R ahu 
in the 10" at birth. 

If a benefic planet is exalted in an angle, the native will acquire a large kingdom and will 
protect his family. 

Death of the father is imminent, if a child is born with R ahu in the Ascendant and the 
Sun in the 7‘", while M ars is between Lagna and the 7". 

A child, who has malefics posited in the 7, 12", 3 and 8", will always have an ailing 
physique. 

Should malefics be in the Lagna, 12" and 8" simultaneously, the child will be deprived 
of its mother instantly, while its father will leave this world in its 4", or 10" year of age. 

sl 

Surya, Candr: will have many sons, will not be happy in regard to parents, will be 
subjected to mental worries. 

Surya, Mai gal: will be unhappy about his father, will be wicked, will always wander 
from place to place, will be meanly disposed. 

Surya, Budh: will not have conveyances, will be wickedly disposed, will have ill-reputed 
history, will commit sinful acts, be forsaken by friends and relatives. 

Surya, Guru: will have little intelligence, will look ugly, will be a dunce, will be 
ungrateful, thievishly disposed and jealous. 

Surya, Cukr: will hate scholars, will not have many children, will be cruel, angrily 
disposed, will trouble others, be fierce and dejected. 


100, 


101. 
102. 
103. 


104. 


Surya, Cani: will be a simpleton, be sick, be given up by his relatives and will not possess 
good qualities. 

Candr, Mai gal: wicked, poor, talkative and not virtuous. 

Candr, Budh: will have good speech, will be rich, beautiful, passionate, modest and will 
be addicted to other women. 

Candr, Guru: will be good-looking, long-lived, very famous, will have attractive eyes 
and hair on the head. 

Candr, Cukr: will be interested in good affairs, will have very beautiful face, will be 
affluent, interested in being virtuous and dear to king. 

Candr, Cani in the 1* B hava: will earn money in bad ways, will know only bad things, be 
mean-minded, be attached to others money, be won by unsocial elements. 

Mai gal, Budh in the 1% Bhava: can easily dupe others, will be an able speaker, 
interested in living in foreign countries and will have bad notions. 

Mai gal, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be hard-hearted, will have few sons, will entertain 
others and will be interested in doing bad acts. 

Mai gal, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will have phlegmatic imbalances, will undertake futile 
jobs, will cheat others, will be ungrateful, will have a valorous son and will not achieve 
success in any of his undertaking. 

Mai gal, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts, will defy 
others, be interested in speaking harshly and be fiercely disposed. 

Budh, Guru in the 1% Bhava: will be beautiful in appearance, be fortunate, 
splendourous, rich and pleasing. 

Budh, Cukr: will be connected with royal duties, will be worth praising by kings, will be 
interested in various Castras, be rich and truthfully disposed. 

Budh, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be expert in carrying out the orders of the king, will 
possess a bad wife, be indigent and will face obstructions from the public. 

Guru, Cukr in the 1% Bhava: will be dear to king, be inclined to earn more wealth, will 
have more knowledge in policies, be very rich and be an exponent of Castras to a great 
proportion. 

Guru, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be very wealthy, highly educated, be not cunning, will 
face many risks and be untruthful. 

Cukr, Cani in the 1° B hava: will be foolish, ungrateful and always attached to his men. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal in the 1* Bhava: will be liked by his elders, be defective limbed, 
be a liar and be cruel, blameworthy and foolish. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 1% Bhava: He will be foolish. 

Stirya, Candr, Guru in the & Bhava: Will have all auspiciousness, be inclined to be 
virtuous, be intelligent, rich, very powerful on others and be always happy. 

Stirya, Candr, Cukr in the 1% Bhava: will have auspicious events, be famous, prestigious, 
wealthy, chief among men and be justly disposed. This position bestows an early marriage 
and an amiable wife. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have a fearful body (i.e. be fierce in 
appearance), be short lived, sick, sinful, capable of promoting quarrels and will be 
forsaken by relatives. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 1° Bhava: will be very industrious, will always be troubled, 
be inimically disposed to others, be ungrateful and subjected to phlegmatic and windy 
diseases. 

Stirya, Mai gal, Guru in the F Bhava: will always be proud, be highly egoistic, will 
possess a fleet of horses and will be keen in imparting vices to others. 


105. 


106. 


107. 


108. 


109. 


110. 


111. 


112. 


113; 


114. 


115. 


116. 


117. 


118. 


119. 


120. 


121. 


122. 


123. 


124. 


125. 


126. 


Surya, Mal gal, Cukr in the F Bhava: will be chief, justly disposed, will have good 
qualities and be dear to his relatives. 

Surya, M ai gal, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will acquire a wife to promote monetary state, be 
short-lived, be subjected to many diseases, untruthful and foolish. 

Surya, Budh, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be skilful, will advance through his 
undertakings, will befriend many and be an expert in war. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will be modest, valorous, chief among Brahmins 
and be happy. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 1 Bhava: will be exposed to penury and diseases, will not have 
good qualities, be unjust and be forsaken by his own men and others as well. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the I* Bhava: will be leader of men, be fond of acquiring many 
children and will be free from enemies and such other troubles. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 1% B hava: will have more enemies, will have to spend on bad 
missions, will like to commit sins, be defective in some limb and be weak. 

Surya, Cukr, Gani in the 1* Bhava: will undertake mean professions to earn money, will 
suffer poverty, will have vices, be fond of wandering and will earn his food by performing 
H omas etc. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 1° Bhava: will own a fine house to live in, be very wealthy, 
justly disposed, be free from enemies and will earn knowledge in Castras. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be happy, very prestigious, be attached to 
his work, be virtuous, will have many friends and will be a great person. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will be subjected to much grief, will have vices, 
will have highly placed relatives, be very intelligent and be bright in appearance. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be ever modest, be fond of guests, be 
interested in donation-giving, be very wise and will stand to gain a lot. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 1° Bhava: will be a king, will possess attractive physique, be 
very valorous and be always happy. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will be very efficacious, attached to the virtuous, 
will have no knowledge of arts (practical, or fine, which are Cani, Budh in the 1* Bhava: in 
number, such, as music, dance etc.) and will be versed in justice. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will marry a highly placed lady, will have rich food 
to eat, be very happy and will donate liberally. 

Candr, Guru, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will not be so efficacious (here Hora Ratna states, 
that the native will have appealing physique), be firm, will be eloquent, inimically disposed 
to the public, will have knowledge of poison (i.e. will deal with poison) and will have 
interest in bad deeds. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have sons and money, will maintain fasten and 
other religious observations, will have many plans in mind about things to be done, be 
bright and will have good mind. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the f Bhava: will always be modest, will gain several ways 
from foreign countries, be famous and be favorably disposed towards his dependants. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will have broad eyes and face, will have properly 
combed hair, be sweet in speech, truthful in disposition and will be easy to be approached. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be unjust, regardless of law, will have bad 
wife, have few sons and will kill animals. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the f Bhava: will be good natured, will be endowed with 
virtues, wealth and children and will be respectful towards Brahmins and Gods. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cani in the 1* B hava: will be phlegmatic, wicked, be won by his wife, be 
troubled by hunger and be a talebearer. 


127. 


128. 


129. 


130. 


131, 


132. 


133: 


134. 


135. 


136. 


137. 


138. 


139. 


140. 


141. 


142. 


143. 


144. 


145. 


146. 


147. 
148. 


149. 


M ai gal, Gukr, Cani in the 1% Bhava: will have a surprising body, be fierce, will not have 
any code of conduct, be inimical to his own men and be confused. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will consider money, as most important, be 
beautiful, attached to women, friendly and very valorous. 

Budh, Guru, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be subjected to phlegmatic diseases, fond of 
meat etc., will have hard teeth and coarse hair, be hard-hearted and will create terror 
among the people. 

Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 1° B hava: will have swarthy body, be windy in temperament, be 
libidinous, torturous and very argumentative. 

Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1° Bhava: will stick to religious observations, with delight in the 
contemplation of Supreme Spirit, will advocate final Emancipation effectively and be 
devoid of fear of tens of millions in kind. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 1* Bhava: will be very sickly, will not be good- 
natured, will be interested in sinful acts, be ungrateful and will suffer from physical 
ailments. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 1° Bhava: will be interested in bad acts, sick, sinful 
thankless, devoid of learning, ugly and fearful. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will wander purposelessly, will cheat 
others, be interested in blaming and be timid. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Gani in the 1* Bhava: will be interested in being just and be 
virtuous, will be ugly, forsaken by servants and will cheat others. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be very timid, be a cheat, be attached to 
relatives and hardhearted. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 1“ Bhava: will like bad odour, be indigent, foolish, will 
not have friends and will be defeated by enemies. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 1* B hava: will be foolish, nightblind, will be interested 
in residing in bad places and be very poor. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will be untruthful, will have few sons, will 
speak harshly, will be won over by enemies and will be subjected to grief. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the I* Bhava: will be dull-witted, have control over his 
senses, be skilful in taking things from others and be honoured for his deeds. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 1° Bhava: will be auspicious, be dejected with people, 
will be very fair in complexion, will not have much money, will be hard in disposition. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the I* Bhava: will be very valorous, will have voice, 
resembling that of a crow, be unkind, will have less money and will have physical 
deficiencies out of sickness etc. 

Surya, M al gal, Budh, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have interest in sexual affairs, be expert 
in gambling, be unkind, more phlegmatic in temperament and be not bright in appearance. 

Surya, M ai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 1% Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, will have vices, 
be very miserable and unkind. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Gani in the 1* Bhava: will have fearful eyes, will spend in bad 
ways, will wear rags and will be dejected with his wife, but attached to his son. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will not be efficacious, be always insulted 
and be fickle-minded. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 1 B hava: will have ugly eyes, be unkind and disturbed. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will do irreligious things in times of danger, 
will serve mean people, be ill-natured, shameless and will face troubles from the king. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 1* Bhava: will be given to anger, will have wicked wife, 
will always be a servant and be forsaken by his relatives. H e will be inimical to all. 


150. 


151. 


152. 


153; 


154. 


155: 


156. 


157. 


158. 


159. 


160. 


161. 


162. 


163. 


164. 


165. 


166. 


167. 


168. 


169. 


170. 


171. 


Surya, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1% Bhava: will promote quarrels, be wicked, be immodest 
and will always move with sinful persons. 

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru in the 1° B hava: will possess a very dark and long body, will 
be interested in fighting, will suffer from bloody disorders and will poorly dress himself. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 1% Bhava: will not have sons and wealth, will have 
ugly ears, teeth and eyes, be a voracious eater, be ascetic and wicked. 

Candr, Mangal, Budh, Gani in the I Bhava: will have uneven legs, ugly hair and ugly 
teeth. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will have un ugly physique, ugly nails and 
ugly sides, will indulge in acceptable deeds and will be a tale-bearer. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 1% Bhava: will be very famous, be helpful to others, be 
free from enemies, be attached to his sons and affectionate to his preceptors. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 1 Bhava: will be endowed with sons and a fleet of 
horse, be interested in Castras, will destroy sinners, be quite famous and be pure-hearted. 

Mangal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the I Bhava: will be foolish, be phlegmatic and windy, 
dear to preceptors and be not proud. 

Mangal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have horrible notions, be long-bodied, 
will wear twisted hair, as an ascetic, be not virtuous, subject to skin afflictions and will 
suffer from itches. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be a bald-headed, fearless, learned, black 
in complexion and be in auspicious. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be very efficacious, will have good (i.e. 
beautiful, or strong) nails, be tall, patient, will have beautiful hands and be fair 
complexioned. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 1* Bhava: will be very wealthy, be interested 
in Castras, be dear to elders and be attached to his sons. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will be important by virtue of his 
good qualities, be good looking, be devoted to help the public and liberal in giving 
donations. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will beat (or kill) firmly, be unkind, 
will be strong bodied and be bereft of wisdom. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the I Bhava: will be firm in disposition, very 
efficacious, cruel, be a poet, be famous and dejected. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have wounded body, will eat 
voraciously, be unjustly disposed, be very splendourous and be highly given to sexual 
feelings. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have interest in others wealth, 
will have long penis, will be full of veins, will have foul smell in the body and be cruel. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will be endowed with sons, learning, 
wealth and relatives and will have attractive eyes, ears, teeth and nose. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have sickly body, will be bilious 
and phlegmatic in temperament and will always move in forests. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 1% Bhava: will have own business, will have 
income through arts, be liberal in giving away gifts and will be endowed with all pleasures. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 1* Bhava: will be free form grief and fear, be 
inactive, or foolish due to some sin, or blemish and will be highly pious. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will consider justice, as the most 
supreme aim, will have virtues, be truthful, be dear to the virtuous and will have pleasing 
looks. 


Liz. 


Ay. 


174. 


175. 


176. 


177. 


178. 


179. 


180. 


181. 


182. 


183. 


184. 


185. 


186. 
187. 


188. 


189. 


190. 


Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be subjected, troubles by 
abundantly, labouring, will be extremely emaciated, skilful in spending, expert in guess, be 
devoid of wealth, be phlegmatic, expert in promoting quarrels and will cheat. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be worshipped by Lord I ndra (i.e. 
so superior a person), will eat and drink abundantly, will be interested in possessing 
conveyances, will possess attractive eyes and be unkind. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1% Bhava: will consider piousness, as supreme, be a 
good singer, be very strong, very happy and truthful. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will be interested in comforts will 
always be pure and clean, will be interested in listening to auspicious stories, will have a 
beautiful body and be the leader of men. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have good knees and feet, will 
follow elders in respect of fame, wealth and happiness, be interested in performing 
sacrifices, worship etc. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 1° Bhava: will have more gains, will be 
subjected to fear, will contact be venereal diseases due to sexual union with poor women 
and will wander. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be endowed with happiness, will 
have a fleet of horses, will have many friends, be proud, dear to good people and will 
befriend elders. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1 B hava: will have loss of horses, will practice self 
restraint, will present an artificial disposition (while inwardly he will be of a different 
nature), will be pious and will have parents with him. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will consider money, as the most 
important aim, will have knowledge of Castras, will win his five senses and will be pious to 
the A Imighty. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 1* Bhava: will be helpful to others, 
wicked, cruel, will be subjected to grief and be virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the f Bhava: will be subjected to great 
penury, be devoid of enemies, be extreme in nature, will be forsaken by his caste, will have 
defect in limbs, be very sickly broken-hearted and modest. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be hard hearted and will 
always be insulted by others. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will be interested in committing 
sinful acts and will have many kind of diseases. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 1* Bhava: will have vices and various 
diseases. 

2nd 

Surya, Candr in the 2% Bhava: will not have money, will be ungrateful, will always 
possess bad disposition, will not be splendourous, will be subjected to diseases and fear. 

Surya, Mai gal in the 2% Bhava: will suffer from penury, be shameless, unkind and 
sinful. 

Surya, Budh in the 27 Bhava: His body will be full of boils and wounds, he will not 
have any property, will be bad in disposition, will be bereft of servants, be troubled by 
others and will be subjected to much grief. 

Surya, Guru in the 2"? Bhava: will be immodest, will be troubled, interested in 
committing sinful acts, be eloquent in speech and will contact difficulties in foreign 
countries. 


191; 


192. 


193. 


194. 
195. 


196. 


197. 


198. 


199. 


200. 


201. 


202. 


203. 


204. 


205. 


206. 


207. 


208. 


209. 


210. 


211. 


212. 


213. 


Surya, Cukr in the 2% Bhava: will be cruel in nature, attached to basemen, will have 
many enemies, will instil fear in others and be not bright in appearance. 

Surya, Cani in the 2 B hava: will contact many diseases, will approach others in vain, be 
unkind, be not angry and will not join the virtuous. 

Candr, Mai gal in the 2" Bhava: will be ruled by the public, will have a dejected wife, 
will look old, be ungrateful, be a servant, be wicked and bright in appearance. 

Candr, Budh in the 2"? Bhava: will be very rich, be free from vices and dear to the king. 

Candr, Guru in the 2° Bhava: will be a king, will be splendourous, be interested in 
virtues, will destroy enemies, will have many sons and be liked by the public. 

Candr, Cukr in the 2 Bhava: will have virtue, as his wealth, will be either a king, or a 
minister, will have many friends and will be attached to his son. 

Candr, Cani in the 2 Bhava: will not have any wealth, will follow bad course, will be 
troubled by enemies, be argumentative in nature and his relatives will perish. 

M al gal, Budh in the 2"? Bhava: will lose wife and wealth, be subjected to blemish, will 
contact diseases, will not possess good qualities and will not patronize his relatives. 

M ai gal, Guru in the 2"° Bhava: will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, will have few sons 
and will be blamed in arguments. 

M ai gal, Cukr in the 2" Bhava: will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, will have few sons 
and will be blamed in arguments. 

M ai gal, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will have wealth, grains, pearls and such other precious 
stones, will acquire few sons and be untruthful. 

Budh, Guru in the 2" Bhava: will have knowledge of Supreme Spirit, will head a town, 
or be equal to a king, be wealthy, will have virtues worth respect and will be expert in 
mathematics. 

Budh, Cukr: will acquire a fleet of horses and elephants, be very wealthy, wise, virtuous, 
truthful and will be dear to Brahmins. 

Budh, Cani in the 24% Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, fierce, wicked and will join bad 
elements. 

Guru, Cukr in the 2" Bhava: will be chief among kings, will be endowed with honour, 
wealth and army, will honour good deeds, will live by praise and valour and will be 
successful. 

Guru, Cani in the 2™ Bhava: will be troubled by kings, be quite sickly, greedy, be free 
from enemies and be not happy in any respect. 

Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be bereft of sons and money, be dirty in appearance, 
cruel and will perform bad acts. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal in the 2 Bhava: will not be wealthy, be troubled by others, be 
not efficacious, be cruel and will be troubled by fear. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 2" B hava: will be timid by nature, be indigent, will have a 
bad wife and will experience grief by his own bad acts. 

Surya, Candr, Guru in the 2" Bhava: will have gad sons, will torture others, be 
sensuous, ungrateful and will instil fear in elders. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr in the 2° Bhava: will indulge in enmity with friends, will have 
conveyances, will not have much wealth, will look ugly, will depend on elders and be given 
to anger. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be ungrateful, be interested in visiting foreign 
countries, interested in gambling, will face troubles, be not virtuous and be with little 
wealth. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 2" B hava: will be a dunce, a spendthrift, be truthful, will 
have a prodigal son, be shameless and be devoid of friendliness. 


10 


214. 


215. 


216. 


217. 


218. 


219. 


220. 


221, 


222. 


223. 


224. 


225; 


226. 


227. 


228. 


229. 


230. 


234; 


232. 


233. 


234. 


Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 2™ Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, be wicked, will have a 
lean body and will earn enmity in service. 

Surya, M ai gal, Cukr in the 2"? B hava: will not have common sense, will be forsaken by 
many, will prove a bad servant, be interested in battle and will lose property. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will have a polluted physique, be devoid of 
qualities and wealth, be fond of promoting quarrels, be sick at all times and will be 
condemned by good people. 

Surya, Budh, Guru in the 2"? Bhava: will have many wounds and boils in the body, be 
blamed, wicked, be troubled by people and will wound other’s feelings. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 2° Bhava: will be always insulted, will look, like a lion, be 
sensuous, miserly, will face ups and downs and be a simpleton. 

Siirya, Budh, Cani in the 2" Bhava: will derive help from his own people, will be 
indigent, be fierce, be not virtuous and be a simpleton. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 2° Bhava: will be dull-witted, not learned, unwise, will lose 
property, be defeated and be a miser. 

Surya, Guru, Gani in the 2"? Bhava: will be given to much anger, be troubled by 
diseases, be interested in promoting quarrels, be devoid of righteous deeds and be very 
indigent. 

Surya, Cukr, Cani in the 2" B hava: will be interested in acts, which are not righteous, be 
wicked, immodest, troubled and will indulge in gad acts. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 2” B hava: will be subject to vicissitude, be harsh in speech, 
be scandalous in money matters, be childless, ge fiver to much anger, will suffer from 
diseases and be forsaken by his relatives. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 2° Bhava: will be poor in status, be devoid of wife, issue 
and wealth, be very greedy and will suffer from diseases. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 2% Bhava: will be troubled by diseases caused due to 
phlegmatic disorders, will not respect his preceptors, be very justly disposed and will be 
banned from the purview of Castras. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 2 Bhava: will be naturally wicked, be fond of alcohol, be 
interested in gambling, be a dejected soul and be forsaken by his relatives. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 2"? Bhava: will be a king, will be insulted much, be beautiful 
land will be endowed with learning and riches. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be affluent, will have a number of friends, will 
be learned in Castras, be virtuous, be very learned and be always affectionate. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 2" Bhava: will be efficacious and helpful, be a spendthrift, be 
subjected to grief on account of his wife, ge a donor and will cheat others. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be happy, will have good ideals, be a king, be 
very famous, be very wise and will have a questionable (mean) profession. 

Candr, Guru, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be free from anger, will be interested in good 
conduct, be sweet in disposition, will be attractive and will be affectionate to his son. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru in the 2"° B hava: will be devoid of ideals, will not have any wealth, 
be very wicked, be attached to other’s wives, will wander aimlessly and will be tortured by 
his libidinous disposition. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 2" Bhava: will consider justice, as the most supreme ideal, 
be an agriculturist, will pull carts, will own fleet of quadrupeds and will have many friends. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cani in the 2™ Bhava: will be very angrily disposed, will be fond of meat 
and flesh, will be interested in possessing weapons, will torture others, will spend much 
and be a source of grief to his own people. 


11 


235, 


236. 


231; 


238. 


239; 


240. 


241. 


242. 


243. 


244. 


245. 


246. 


247. 


248. 


249. 


250. 


251. 


252. 


253; 


254. 


M ai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 24 Bhava: will be and expert artisan, will take to righteous 
path, will perform penance, will possess attractive body and be fearless. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 2°¢ Bhava: will possess good robes, will enjoy much of 
pleasures, will be interested in women, will be an able speaker, be interested in Castras, be 
very wealthy and very attractive. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 2 Bhava: will be a king, will own a fleet of superior class of 
elephants and horses, be very affluent and be attached to his relatives. 

Budh, Guru, Cani in the 2" Bhava: will become superior by his righteous acts, be 
famous, be useful (to others), be very kind and be garrulous. 

Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 2 Bhava: will have a strong and prominent belly, will be 
interested in various sciences and to be truthful, be a drunkard, but will be piously 
attached to Lord K rishna. 

Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2% Bhava: will be endowed with sons and wealth, will be a 
scholar, be justly disposed, be happy, be very affectionate and splendourous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 2% Bhava: will be attached to evil countries (or 
places), will indulge in unethical acts, will derive happiness from his wicked wife and will 
incur grief through his sons. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 2 Bhava: will not be of good disposition, will not 
be virtuous, will be untruthful, will be very phlegmatic in temperament and libidinous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 2" B hava: will always be worried, be dirty, will instil 
fear in others, be ungrateful, be troubled and be not famous. 

Surya, Candr, Man_ gal, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will have shaky teeth and long stomach, 
will not be so freely, will speak doubtfully (not confident), be unwise and be not successful 
in his mission. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 2 B hava: will eat anything available, will be troubled 
due to excess of the three humours, will be very greedy and will befriend very bad 
elements. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 2° Bhava: will have diseases related to penis (i.e. 
urinal diseases, venereal diseases, bladder etc.), will be of mean disposition, will have few 
sons, will have daughters and be not virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 2% Bhava: will suffer headache and from windy and 
phlegmatic diseases and be not attached to his own people. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 2° Bhava: will not be sharp, will be dejected with 
people, will be troubled, blame -worthy and timid. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the 2" Bhava: will have plenty of hair on the head, will not 
be dear to the virtuous, elders, Brahmins etc., will grow by eating food given by others and 
will have trouble from kings. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be devoid of sons, will grow fat by excess 
work, will have mean ideals and be bereft of pleasures. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 2% Bhava: will be devoid of good disposition, be 
fierce, be devoid of sons, will be interested in women, will have diseased eyes, be 
spendthrift and have mental worries. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 2" Bhava: will be sinful, be forsaken by his virtuous 
wife, will be devoid of good relatives and be interested in sexual acts. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 2™ B hava: will be troubled by wounds, will have fear, 
be very proud, be very sinful and be not well-taught. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 2 Bhava: will have good speech and eyes, will be a 
tale-bearer, will not show interest in giving donations/gifts, be not grateful and will suffer 
from great blemishes. 


12 


255, 


256. 


257. 


258. 


259; 


260. 


261. 


262. 


263. 


264. 


265. 


266. 


267. 


268. 


269. 


270. 


271. 


272. 


203; 


274. 


Suirya, Mal gal, Guru, Cani in the 2% Bhava: will be very famous, will have big bones 
and long hair, will live in foreign countries, will have more enemies, will be friendly, will 
always be angry, be troubled, wicked, cruel, shameless and be forsaken by his wife. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? B hava: will have many troubles, be not virtuous, be 
devoid of happiness and knowledge of Castras and will befriend only sinners. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 2" Bhava: will be sickly be emaciated, be less truthful, 
be dull-witted and interested in bad tales. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 2"? B hava: will not have wealth, will be greedy, will look 
ugly and will have diseased eyes, will not have happy relations, will be interested in sexual 
affairs and be sickly disposed. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 2 Bhava: will be dear to sages/good people, be 
interested in Castras and Puranas, be devoted to Brahmins and will be pleasing to look at. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, 
religious observations and Castras, will be worshipped and be equal to a king. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will consider money the most important, 
will have agricultural profession, will own a fleet of horses, will acquire gold, will be 
famous, will be a poet, will be interested in giving donations/gifts and will be attractive in 
appearance. 

Candr, Mal gal, Guru, Cukr in the 2 Bhava: will be devoid of learning, will be 
calculative, will be a scholar and dear to Brahmins. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be successful, will have virtuous 
children, be affluent, be honoured even by kings, will observe religious regulations, will 
have various kinds of horses, robes and things, be free from diseases and be virtuous. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 2"? B hava: will be interested in performing sacrifices of 
religious nature and serving the virtuous, be an able speaker, be very wealthy and be 
interested in Castras. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 24 Bhava: will be dear to Brahmins, will possess 
attractive body, will speak smilingly, be always happy and be dear to the king. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be a chief with the king, will be respected 
even by his enemies, will have much wealth and donate liberally. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be chief among many men, be respected 
by kings, be minister, be always happy and be famous. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be favourable to Brahmins, be 
famously valorous, be skilful in achieving royal missions patient and happy in all respects. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 2'° Bhava: will be related to foreign countries, will 
have income, be attached to the virtuous, will have gardens and wills and will be on king’s 
mission. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will have a modest wife, will have attractive 
body, be attached to the virtuous and will have abundant grains and money. 

0 DQ gal, Guru, Gukr, Cani in the 2° Bhava: will have abundant corns, will acquire 
knowledge of Castras, be happy, be chief amongst poets and will be principled. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be skilful in all kinds of arts, will destroy 
enemies, will be famous and be attached to wealth. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 2™ B hava: will be worried, very greedy, not 
wise and will have small body. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 2™ Bhava: will be subjected to troubles due 
to excessive mundane attachment, be not splendourous, be windy in temperament and 
interested in committing sinful acts. 


13 


275. 


276. 


277. 


278. 


279. 


280. 


281. 


282. 


283. 


284. 


285. 


286. 


287. 


288. 


289. 


290. 


291, 


292. 


293. 


294. 


Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 2 Bhava: will be a night-blind, be 
libidinous, will lose his property, will be inimical to many and be dull-witted. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 2° Bhava: will be without any assignment, 
be not rich, be without good robes, be troubled by diseases and interested in living in 
foreign countries. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be inimical even to friends, be 
not helpful to others, will be very poor, will have poor (unrewarding) profession and be 
not valorous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 2" Bhava: will be interested in association with 
wicked people, will be troubled by wounds and boils, be very sinful and be much angrily 
disposed. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 2% Bhava: will be egoistic, impatient, unkind 
and unjust. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 2° Bhava: will be very greedy, short tempered, 
devoid of desires, be unjust and timid. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2 Bhava: will be poor, be troubled out of fear, 
be very sinful, devoid of desires, interested in virtues and will have attractive eyes and 
legs. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 2"? B hava: will be blame-worthy, ungrateful, 
will do others’ jobs, will give high importance to wife and will not be masculine in 
disposition. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 2" Bhava: will face obstacles (in his 
undertakings), will cheat, be ungrateful, will undertake to do inimical acts and will have 
and inimical wife. 

Stirya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2% Bhava: will not have people of his own, who 
will have their money (i.e. his own people will be devoid of money), will have vices, will 
not be kind at all and will be inimical to Castras. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 2"? Bhava: will be interested in getting the jobs 
of his relatives done, be very wealthy, learned in V edas (Castras etc.) and be pure. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will have good friends, be modest, 
be disinterested, will not have food to eat and will suffer from lung disorders. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2™ Bhava: will be devoted to elders and 
Brahmins, be good looking, be liberal and skilful in divine undertakings, viz. Puja etc. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 2% Bhava: will be given to anger to a small 
extent, will be very interested in friends and Castras and be adventurous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 2% Bhava: will be very much worried, 
be devoid of truth and wealth, wicked and attached to bad elements. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 24 Bhava: will not attain crops, will 
have no sons, be very wicked, attached to undesirable learning etc. and will befriend bad 
elements. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will be given to anger chiefly, 
will prove an evil to friends, be chief among men and be a big cheat. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2" Bhava: will be proud, will dislike to 
listen to religious stories, will be fickle-minded in speech and will be subjected to much 
grief. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 2" B hava: will not attain fame, will not be 
rich, be blameworthy, be chief and be free from expenses. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2"? Bhava: will not successfully perform 
his own profession, will be foolish, sick and be troubled. 


14 


295, 


296. 


297. 


298. 


299; 


300. 


301 


302 


303 


304 


305 


306 


307 


308 


309 


310 


311 


312 


313 


314 


315 


316 


sj 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2" Bhava: The native will have the seas, 
as boundaries of his kingdom, will hold the flag of virtue aloft and be very famous. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 2° Bhava: will be endowed with 
wealth, horses and elephants galore and be highly virtuous. 

3rd 

Surya, Candr: will have affectionate wife and affectionate relatives, will be attached to 
others, will observe religious fasting etc., will have knowledge of Castras, will possess sweet 
voice, will be a poet and will have increasing fame. 

Surya, Mai gal: will be equal to a king, will have lands, be interested in possessing 
conveyances, will have attractive eyes, will be courteous to guests and will acquire many 
sons. 

Surya, Budh in the 3 Bhava: will have many sons and grandsons, will be widely 
famous, be very valorous, will win his five senses and be dear to people. 

Surya, Guru in the 3° Bhava: will be wicked, will have many family members, will be 
firm in nature and will not have growing wisdom. 

Surya, Cukr in the 3% Bhava: will lose his good son, be mean minded, will suffer much 
poverty, be interested in foreign visits and will be very proud. 

Surya, Cani: will have lasting blame, will kill his enemies, will be expert in eloquent 
speech and will be useful to kings. 

Candr, Mai gal: will be an expert agriculturist, be unhappy, will have many expenses, be 
dear to women and be attached to his children. 

Candr, Budh: will by ugly, be interested in gambling, be jealous, wicked, ill-tempered 
and always fickle-minded. 

Candr, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will have great vices, be subjected to much worries, be 
interested in making enmity and be not bold. 

Candr, Cukr: will have attractive hands and thighs, be dull-witted, will be able to endure 
worries and will live a life with poverty. 

Candr, Cani in the 3% Bhava: will be free from diseases, be devoid of worldly desires, 
will be attentive, be honoured by many virtuous people and be passionate. 

Mai gal, Budh in the 3 Bhava: will be helpful to others, will possess a physique with 
pleasant flavour, will have beautiful hair, be very efficacious and be endowed with all 
riches. 

Mai gal, Guru in the 3 Bhava: be fearless, interested in virtues, very pious, 
splendourous, highly truthful and pure. 

Mai gal, Cukr: will be skillful artist, be virtuous, interested in visiting shrines, will 
possess good qualities and be justly disposed. 

M ai gal,C: will be so powerful, as a king, be free from all kind of diseases, will head 
even the kings and will attain success over enemies. 

Budh, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be fearful in war, dull-witted, be not virtuous, be 
devoid of intelligence, will not have good relatives and be sickly. 

Budh, Cukr in the 3% Bhava: will possess riches, be afflicted, will be ignorant, or 
illusory, be highly interested in sexual acts, be troubled by sons and will suffer from secret 
diseases. 

Budh, Cani in the 3% Bhava: will be close to affluent class, be interested in good 
conduct, will possess attractive limbs, will have bright face and be of good disposition. 

Guru, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will not be prosperous, be devoid of sons, be defeated, will 
have abundant grief and also abundant happiness, be devoid of shame and be not friendly. 

Guru, Cani in the 3% Bhava: will be firm in disposition, will be self-sufficient in respect 
of food, drinks and robes learned, be chief in his race and rich. 


15 


318 


319 


320 


321 


322 


323 


324 


325 


326 


327 


328 


329 


330 


331 


332 


333 


334 


339 


336 


337 


338 


339 


340 


Cukr, Gani in the 3 B hava: will be endowed with riches, will possess a clear disposition, 
be dear to kings free from diseases and honoured. 

Suirya, Candr, Mai gal in the 3¢ Bhava: will have very supreme position, will have 
conveyances, be prosperous, be very rich and will be intelligent. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 3" Bhava: will be very fortunate, be interested in CAstras, be 
inclined to do the jobs of the virtuous, be a great person and be devoid of fear. 

Surya, Candr, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will not be efficacious, will have a barren wife, be 
interested in befriending mean people, be prone to danger and devoid of learning. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr in the 3° Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, be ungrateful, be 
deformed and wicked. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will possess beautiful body, be interested in 
performing H omas, Pooja, donation etc., will have many friends and be shameful. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 3 B hava: will be chief in a king’s place, be highly truthful, 
be famous, be very beautiful, be very rich, be interested in donating and will have others in 
his company. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 3° Bhava: will be very valorous, will have control over his 
five senses, be not given to anger, be virtuous and attached to others. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will not be beautiful, be interested in performing 
virtues acts, will have many children and be devoid of sexual feelings. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be king of kings, will be very rich with 
elephants and horses, be valorous, be a poet and will instil fear in enemies. 

Surya, Budh, Guru in the 3° Bhava: will be a successful army chief, will win over his 
enemies and be endowed with patience. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, be dear to 
virtuous people, be an agriculturist, be very rich and acceptable to all. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will win over enemies, will possess many weapons, 
be expert in fighting a war, be patient and will always have good conduct. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 37 Bhava: will be justly disposed, interested in stories and be 
equal to a king. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will be famous for performance, will be interested in 
giving donations, be attached to women, be attractive, will-trained and skilful in all arts. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 3° Bhava: be learned in Vedas, be an agriculturist, be 
interested in listening to religious stories, will have strong body and be very valorous. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 3% Bhava: will perform peculiar acts, be interested in 
learning castras, will enjoy various kinds of food and drinks and will be principled and 
opposed to sinful schemes. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 3 B hava: will possess a modest wife, will be full of faith, be 
skilful in speech, famous and fearless. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be helpful to others, famous, very rich, 
splendourous, modest and will be lord of women. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 3% Bhava: will always be poor, will promote quarrels, be ill- 
tempered, interested in committing sinful deeds and will destroy his own relatives. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 3% Bhava: will be insulted by others, will undertake mean 
professions, be ungrateful, be subjected to much grief and be opposed to good men. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will grow by eating others’ food, destroy enemies, 
be free from sickness and be always happy. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will be subjected to many difficulties, be shameless, 
unkind and inimical to Castras, elders and Brahmins. 


16 


341 


342 


343 


344 


345 


346 


347 


348 


349 


350 


351 


352 


353 


354 


355 


356 


357 


358 


359 


360 


361 


362 


363 


Candr, Guru, Cani in the 3% Bhava: will eat any casual food, will be honoured by all, 
will control his mind, will be a lord, be not learned and will destroy his enemies. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 3% Bhava: will make one learned in Vedas, A gamas etc., a 
preceptor by king’s appointment, will be bestowed with great beauty and will be much 
sought after by one and all. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 3° Bhava: will have strong body, be not proud, will visit 
shrines, will donate liberally, be very valorous and be dear to his own men. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will have all happiness and pleasures, be dear to 
women, be truthful, be great, will perform royal duty and be free from greed. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be happy and prosperous, be endowed with 
wealth, horses, elephants etc., will be very kind and firmly disposed. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will have chiefly sons, be pure being truthful, be 
skilful in speech, fearless and be liked by many. 

M al gal, Guru, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will acquire gold, be righteous, be an agriculturist, 
will acquire quadrupeds, be very attractive and will always speak truth. 

M ai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be very valorous, be modest, righteous, firm 
and happy with sons. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will be timid in nature, be won by enemies, 
ignorant, or illusioned and will suffer from diseases, like itch (and other skin diseases) 

Budh, Guru, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will donate prominently, be free from afflictions, 
learned in Castras, prosperous, will work with modesty and will be very proud. 

Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: the native will be a liar, wicked and related to other 
women illegally. 

Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3” Bhava: will respect sages, (or wise men) be learned in Vedas 
etc., interested in singing, be not sinful, be interested in women’s wealth, be prosperous, 
will locate hidden treasures, be dear to young women and will be firm in friendship. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 3° Bhava: will acquire plenty of riches, be very 
efficacious, will like those, who have an attractive physique and be interested in good 
deeds and principles. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be truthful, will win over enemies, 
will be egoistic and will win many friends out of his eloquence. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 3"? Bhava: will be chief among the cousins, will earn 
a number of friends, be dear to virtuous people and will respect his teachers. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be skilful in learning, be the head of a 
town, will own many villages and quadrupeds and be worshipped by the king. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 3° Bhava: will be attached to elders, be friendly to 
virtuous people, will have many assignments and will respect Brahmins. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 3° Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, robes, 
food etc., be famous and be happy with sons. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will be modest, be interested in gardens 
wills, trees etc., will continue to have acquisition of wealth and be pious. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be a king, be splendourous, be very 
chief among men, will have faith in Castras and be always kindly disposed. 

Surya, Mal gal, Budh, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will possess superior diamonds, will 
acquire sons and wealth, will be successful and will conquer his enemies. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will be famous, will always wed success, 
will lend help to animals, be beautiful, will conquer his senses and be virtuous. 

Surya, Mal gal, Guru, Cukr in the 3% Bhava: will be highly placed among his own men, 
wealthy, enthusiastic and valorous. 


17 


364 


365 


366 


367 


368 


369 


370 


Bal 


372 


373 


374 


375 


376 


377 


378 


379 


380 


381 


382 


383 


384 


385 


Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 3¢ Bhava: will possess highly good qualities, will be 
endowed with beauty, learning, wealth and justice, be very efficacious and be free from 
vices. 

Siirya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be intelligent, will possess an auspicious 
physique, be attached to those born in supreme race, will be highly praised and dear to his 
people. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will worship the Almighty and Brahmins, be 
not attached to anything, be famous for his wisdom and will have good sons. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be interested in making friendship with 
good people, will have knowledge of philosophy and be famous for his Castraic learning. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will have servants, be learned in Castras, be 
endowed with virtues and justice and will be worshipped by the king. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will have many sons, be famous, very learned, 
be free from afflictions and will own elephants. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 3 Bhava: will be wicked, immodest, given to much 
anger and will be bad in nature. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 3° Bhava: will not have common sense, will be bereft 
of sons and relatives, be interested in war and will promote quarrels. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be inspired with love, be not virtuous, 
be lazy, unkind and interested in adventures. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: be not splendourous, will not have 
intelligence and prosperity, will be greedy and will always suffer afflictions. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be attached to people in the town, will 
have good behaviour, be highly respected, be interested in eating flesh, be truthful and 
wealthy. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will have bad disposition, be fickle minded, 
will suffer from penury and be interested in living in foreign countries. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 3% Bhava: will be worried, will have desires, be not 
proficient, will have a dejected wife and will destroy his place. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will be deprived of wife and horses (i.e. 
conveyances), will suffer from excess of wind and phlegm, will spend on bad missions and 
be enthusiastic in committing sinful acts. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will not have good history, will be devoid of 
noble aims, be deprived of his own men, be not learned and will be friendly. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will hate Brahmins, will consume intoxicants, 
will be very base in disposition and be dirty. 

0 DQ gal, Budh, Guru, Sukr in the 3° Bhava: will be happy, will have many sons, be 
truthful, be very rich, will win over his senses and be not virtuous. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will consider money supreme, will become 
virtuous by giving donations, be attached to people and Castras. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 3* Bhava: will be very truthful, be interested in 
observing the requirements laid down for his own caste, be very famous, be dear to guests 
and be praised by his relatives. 

Mal gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3 B hava: will possess a beautiful body, be wicked, 
be not sinful and be rich. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3? Bhava: will be wicked, be sinful, ungrateful, not 
virtuous and be unjust. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 3” Bhava: will be very rich, will be 
bestowed with sons, will be beautiful, dear to this wife and will have pleasing appearance. 


18 


386 


387 


388 


389 


390 


391 


392 


393 


394 


395 


396 


397 


398 


399 


400 


401 


402 


403 


404 


405 


406 


407 


408 


Surya, Candr, Mail gal, Budh, Cukr in the 3¢ Bhava: will be a great man, will be very 
famous in performing yagnas, will hold the flag of virtue a lot, will be helpful to living 
beings and will be a chief. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 3 B hava: will be a scholar, be interested in 
maintaining self respect, will enjoy abundant pleasures, will be virtuous and also a singer. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will eat crabs, will be very wicked, 
will respect gods and Brahmins and will know his duties. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will not perform worships (due, as 
routine), will control his enemies’pride, will give importance to friends and will be very 
shy. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will be kindly disposed, sill perform 
such acts, that will bring fame, be grateful, be dear to the virtuous and to his own men. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 3% Bhava: will be favourable to guests, will 
respect God and men and will possess good disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will be successful in undertakings, 
will consider money, as important, will enjoy robes and jewels and be beautiful. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 3” Bhava: will possess scented articles and 
robes, will have knowledge of Castras, be famous and will be happy with an extremely 
virtuous wife. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 3 B hava: will be interested in good qualities, 
be famous, amiable to all, intent on giving gifts and will not be attached to anything. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 3 B hava: will have truth, as the foremost aim, 
be justly disposed, will donate, be very patient and will be dear to Brahmins. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 37 Bhava: will be free from (unnecessary) 
expenses, will have pure mind, be skilful and will not have firm sexual feelings. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 3 Bhava: will be fierce, interested in stories 
related to sex, be grateful and unenthusiastic. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 3 Bhava: will have wicked disposition, will 
suffer from heavy thirst, will soend a lot and will hate Castras. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 3¢ Bhava: will have blemishes, will respect 
God and Brahmins, be sinful and will be troubled by sexual feelings. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will not be enthusiastic, be wicked, 
very cunning and be not splendourous, adverse to sex feelings. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will be interested in mean people, 
will be bad in disposition and will desire to have his children in big families. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 3 Bhava: will have wonderful appearance and 
jewels, will be beautiful, be interested in singing and be virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 3@ B hava: will be expert in gandharva 
vedas, will have an auspicious face, beautiful eyes and pleasing looks (appearance). 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 3° B hava: will have the opportunity to 
visit shrines and the native will live in forests and hills. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be dear to great people 
and to virtuous Brahmins. 

Surya, Candr, Man gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3° Bhava: will be endowed with 
riches, be skilful in justice and will have an attractive face. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be subject to diseases of 
head and mind, will live in foreign countries, or deserted places. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3 Bhava: will be wealthy, will conquer 
five senses and be without propitiousness. 


19 


409 


410 
411 


412 


413 


414 


415 


416 


417 


418 


419 


420 


421 


422 


423 


424 


425 


426 


427 


428 


429 
430 


431 


432 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3 B hava: will be successful, skilful, be 
very propitious, or lucky and famous. 

4 

Surya, Candr in the 4" Bhava: will be bereft of happiness and pleasures, be subject to 
perils, will be able to guess others’ thinking, be not splendourous and not friendly. 

Surya, Mal gal in the 4" Bhava: will suffer bloody and windy diseases, be not 
propitious/lucky, be subjected to troubles and given to anger. 

Surya, Budh in the 4" Bhava: will suffer from windy and phlegmatic diseases, will 
have few sons, be insulted by enemies, attached to wicked people and interested in his 
own country. 

Surya, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be sinful, be devoid of wealth, be assumed in, or of 
false disposition be highly phlegmatic and be ill-tempered. 

Surya, Cukr in the 4™ B hava: will be very much addicted to intoxication, be subjected 
physical ailments, be cruel and fickle minded. 

Surya, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be troubled by Gods, be very ill-tempered, be 
interested in promoting quarrels, be devoid of shame and be dull witted. 

Candr, Mai gal in the 4" Bhava: will have few sons, be impatient, be interested in 
others’ wives, dear to people and be forsaking by his own children. 

Candr, Budh: will be very truthful, be clear in speech, be very wise, be dear to people 
and be supreme among the beings. 

Candr, Guru: will have knowledge of politics, be beautiful, very garrulous, dear to 
king, kind and will respect G ods and preceptors. 

Candr, Cukr: will be a great man, will have large hands, will be very happy by having 
many a friend and many a son, be chief among the men of his race and be ever modest. 

Candr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will always be sick, be hard-hearted, be blameworthy, 
ungrateful and interested in other countries. 

Mai gal, Budh in the 4” Bhava: will have wounded physique, will steal women, be a 
drunkard, a gambler and be attached to none. 

Mai gal, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be successful, poor, akin to cupid, interested in 
sins, forsaken by his relatives and will have penchant for arts. 

Mai gal, Cani in the 4 Bhava: will be subjected to much grief, will expend on bad 
means, be unfriendly, will perform mean acts and will talk unnecessarily. 

Budh, Guru in the 4"" Bhava: will be very happy, very kind hearted, will perform such 
acts, as to bring fame, be patient and worshipped by the king. 

Budh, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be dear to the king, be equal to the king and bea 
minister, or chief of army. 

Budh, Cani in the 4" B hava: will be won over by enemies, be short of blood, be sick 
and will suffer from fever. 

Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will have wealth in plenty, will be endowed with gold, 
pearls and sons, will be faithful to religion and interested in shrines etc. 

Guru, Cani in the 4‘" B hava: It produces a cook, or a potter, or an artisan. 

Cukr, Cani in the 4 Bhava: will have less happiness, will be devoid of tongue, will 
have dejected friends, be timid and will cheat others. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal in the 4" Bhava: will not be able to achieve success in his aim, 
will have foul smell in mouth, be devoid of intelligence, be fierce, be troubled by phlegm 
and be subjected to miseries. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 4 Bhava: will be devoid of good qualities, will have hands 
devoid of much splendour, will be ungrateful and will be happy with the money earned 
through very hard labour. 


20 


433 


434 


435 


436 


437 


438 


439 


440 


441 


442 


443 


444 


445 


446 


447 


448 
449 


450 


451 


452 


453 


Surya, Candr, Guru in the 4‘ Bhava: will be interested in indulging in bad acts 
causing difficulties, be sick, be addicted to vices, be subjected to penury and be devoid of 
wisdom and wealth. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will always be attached to his wife, be given to 
anger, will indulge in mean acts, will be insulted by others and be not just. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be highly rheumatic (windy), be fierce, be 
devoid and respect for Gods and preceptors, will befriend many bad elements and be bad 
in mentally. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 4‘" Bhava: will be fierce in disposition, will be interested 
in others’ money, will forsake his family, be bad in mentality, will wed a barren lady and 
will hate Castras. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be devoid of parents, relatives, character, 
splendour and sexual feelings, be attached to mean people and hard-hearted. 

Surya, Mal gal, Cukr in the 4" B hava: will be primarily happy, will have a large army, 
be interested in Castras and Puranas, be ill-disposed and be timid. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 4" B hava: will be subjected to various worries, be devoid 
of shame, be indolent (be dull-witted, as per Balabhadra), be short-lived and just. 

Surya, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be honoured, grieved, attached to bad 
people, be a miser, will be very much happy and be troubled by enemies. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be interested in sins, bad in disposition, will 
be troubled due to excessive phlegm, be shameless, will have bad nails and be ungrateful. 

Surya, Budh, Gani in the 4 Bhava: will be devoid of good history, will be troubled by 
friendship with bad elements and be wicked. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be endowed with wife, children and wealth. 
He will suffer from eye diseases. He will be intelligent. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be interested in other’s money, will forsake 
truth, be hard-hearted and will be devoid of wisdom, wealth and justice due to curse. 

Surya, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be forsaken by friends, will not be good- 
looking, will be endowed with wife, will have excess of deficiency of a limb and be not 
virtuous. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 4" Bhava: will acquire learning, be virtuous, be very 
happy, will conquer his senses and will be insulted by wicked people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 4"" Bhava: will enjoy all kinds of happiness, be honoured 
by kings and own relatives and be endowed with quadrupeds. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 4" B hava: will have wicked sons and wandering nature. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be free from committing sinful acts, be 
interested in Castraic knowledge, be tactful, be a powerful speaker and will earn much. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be a king, will be free from diseases, will 
have many kinds of horses, be given to anger, will be very efficacious and will conquer his 
enemies. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be endowed with great lordship, will be 
famous because of his great wife, be kind and be interested in good people. 

Candr, Budh, Gani in the 4" Bhava: will be endowed with great lordship, sill be a 
great personage, be chief in his lineage and will be brought up affectionately by his 
parents. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will have wisdom, learning, skilful sons and 
expertise in arts. 


21 


454 


455 


456 


457 


458 


459 


460 


461 


462 


463 


464 


465 


466 


467 


468 


469 


470 


471 


472 


473 


474 


Candr, Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be famous, interested in comforts, be free 
from sickness, will have good heart, will have sons, who will be endowed with various 
riches and bea lord. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be notably courageous, will enjoy the 
company of a good girl among relatives and will earn wonderful things through king's 
patronage. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 4 Bhava: will enjoy happiness through sons, be an 
agriculturist, be endowed with fame, valour etc. and will be attached to his guests and 
Brahmins. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 4” Bhava: will grow various varieties of crops, will have 
many quadrupeds and will have a number of relatives. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be very greedy, be bereft of friends, be 
interested in others’ wives, be hard hearted and be always dirty. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will always have good disposition, will visit 
sacred places, will be endowed with much fame and much valour, be chief among the 
members of his lineage and will have auspicious and fully grown body. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will have good qualities, will have less earnings 
and less happiness, will be a servant and a will-wisher of the king. 

Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be wicked in disposition, be against good 
people, be very ill- tempered and hard-hearted. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 4" B hava: will lord over the earth, be devoid of enemies, will 
have sons, be virtuous in disposition and will have pleasing looks. 

Budh, Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be a befitting groom, will have knowledge of 
M antras and will give liberal gifts to preceptors and relatives. 

Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will perform his duties, will be a merchant, be 
patient, be interested in giving donations and be pure. 

Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be a repository of fame, will have religious 
initiation, be interested in the duties of the elders, will have an auspicious face and be 
chief among men. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 4" B hava: will be bereft of wisdom, be insulted by 
others, be forsaken by his own people, be unkind and timid. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be devoid of good qualities, will 
give up his children, be fearful, will not have good history and be not happy. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be devoid of friends, money and 
beauty, will be conquered by others and will be mindless. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 4!" Bhava: will be unkind, be a thief, be fierce and 
interested in promoting quarrels. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be very inquisitive, be troubled by 
sexual feelings, will be devoid of good qualities and will be of low caste. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will look ugly, will not be friendly, will not 
have hair on the limbs (i. e. on chest, arms, knees etc.) and will always be interested in 
living in foreign countries. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will not have any aims will be a thief, will 
be interested in females belonging to others, will take to very mean professions and will be 
bad disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 4" B hava: will lose his attention, will be interested in 
promoting quarrels, will be harsh in speech, will be ugly in appearance and will wear rags. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Gani in the 4" Bhava: will live in bad countries, will be cheated 
by women, be interested in prostitutes and be unkind. 


22 


475 


476 


477 


478 


479 


480 


481 


482 
483 


484 


485 


486 


487 


488 


489 


490 


491 


492 


493 


494 


495 


496 


Surya, Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 4“ Bhava: will be interested in good justice, will like to 
gamble, will lose wealth, be ugly and connected with bad deeds. 

Stirya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 4" B hava: will be troubled by hunger, weapons and 
diseases and be excessively windy. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 4” Bhava: will have fierce eyes, will be night blind, 
be interested in husbandry and be sinful. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be of untruthful disposition, will not 
be patient and be garrulous. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 4"" Bhava: will not have good nature, will wear rags, 
be not friendly, will behave, like a wise man, will have evils. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will acquire a wife, will be insulted by 
others, will have a wounded physique, will cause nuisance to public and will always have 
enemies. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4" B hava: will always be an employer, will be served by 
many attendants, will do liberal acts and be fearless in disposition. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be timid in nature, truthful, kind 
respectful to Brahmins and will like virtues. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be devoted to others, will have 
numerous workmen, be widely famous, very wealthy and be dear to people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be very surprisingly bold, will be 
endowed with wealth of passion and be attached to good men. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be endowed with virtues, will feel 
happy to serve virtuous men, will perform auspicious acts and will have wisdom, as his 
pride. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 4° Bhava: will be respectful to Brahmins, be 
enthusiastic, be interested in virtues, be liked by women and will be famous for his 
efficacy. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be highly bashful, be interested in his 
duty, be of truthful disposition and will be attached to those, who perform penance. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 4°" Bhava: will help Brahmins, will help others, will 
not be attached to anything, will enjoy good fame and will be successful in arguments. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will have many sons, will be liked by 
women, be free from blemish, will be happy with wisdom and wealth and be a lord. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4°" B hava: will be interested in earning money through 
merchandising (i.e. business in general), be famous and be always endowed with mental 
vigour. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 4" B hava: will be endowed with extremely merciful 
tendency, be devoid of sex feelings, will speak clearly (eloquently), will be justly disposed 
and respectful, or honourable. 

Mal gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will have respect for his preceptors, will 
not spend (unnecessarily), will be very wealthy, will be very respectable and be a lord. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be an astrologer, will be very much 
interested in gathering Castraic knowledge, be very wise and will have plenty of food of his 
liking. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 4" Bhava: will have liking to learn about the 
Supreme Spirit, be devoid of sins, will speak truth and will be known in royal circle. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will play musical instruments, will be very 
kind and will be bold in rendering to help others. 


23 


497 


498 


499 


500 


501 


502 


503 


504 


505 


506 


507 


508 


509 


510 


511 


512 


ai 


514 
515 


516 


517 


518 


519 


Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be ignoble, be troubled by 
diseases of private parts, be ungrateful, will have prominent belly and be devoid of 
moustache. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 4°" Bhava: will be devoid of religious 
conduct, be interested in sexual affairs, be very sickly, will not trust others and be fickle- 
minded. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be highly greedy, will be 
patriotic, will lack courtesy and will always be devoid of wealth. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will be interested in sword-flight, 
will reveal pride in face, be shameless and will lack masculine vigour. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will have declined wealth due to 
many enemies, will always intend to make enmity and will be unkind. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 4°" Bhava: will be always subjected to 
troubles, be devoid of virtues, will belong to a low caste and will “imprison” others. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 4" Bhava: will act slowly after thinking 
properly, will have more enemies, will have beautiful hair and be devoid of efficacy. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will have many blemishes, will suffer 
from tuberculosis, be not splendourous and will lose friends. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, will suffer 
grief on account of issue, will be very mean and fickle minded. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 4" B hava: will be very sickly will be troubled 
by kings, will always be subjected to grief and will have vices. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 4" Bhava: will experience much miseries, will 
have unafflicted limbs, will promote quarrels and be firm in blaming. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be discarded by Brahmins, will 
follow religious observations, will be interested in bad acts and will always suffer from 
penury. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will give up his own religion and 
follow that of others, will be devoid of good character and good disposition. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 4 Bhava: will be endowed with great 
happiness and great wealth, will talk tactfully, be not learned and will be dear to people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 4" B hava: will be interested in consecration, 
religious observations, bathing etc., will be of superior disposition and be expert in justice. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will possess high splendour and 
Castraic wisdom, will be honoured, be patient and will respect G ods and preceptors. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 4°" B hava: will be very kind, be interested in 
Castras, be virtuous and wear Lapis Lazuli (i.e. cat’s eye) etc. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4" B hava: will be honoured by kings. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4™ Bhava: will be with good men, will be great 
himself, be courageous, be a poet and be amicable to relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 4” B hava: will wear rags, be devoid of 
friendship, be very short-tempered, will have (more) daughters (than sons) and will always 
partake in an assembly. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 4" B hava: will be very illusioned, will 
divert his mind to sinful acts, be ungrateful, shameless and lazy. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will like meat, will be 
interested in bad deeds, be wicked and will not believe in Castras. 

Siiya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be happy, untruthful, 
troubled and will suffer miseries on account of his bad deeds. 


24 


520 


521 


522 


523 


524 


525 


526 


527 


528 


529 


530 


531 


532 


533 


534 


535 


536 


537 


538 


539 


540 


541 


Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4°" B hava: will not be interested in tales, 
will be interested in very bad people, will be impatient and be adverse to V edas. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4“ B hava: will depend on many, will be 
interested in visiting shrines, be industrious will possess good qualities, be truthful and 
kind. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be highly 
aU will eat quality food, be a king, be jealous and will honour his preceptors. 

5" 

Surya, Candr in the 5" B hava: will not be egoistic, will be hump-backed, be dejected, 
will have evil sons, will always be subjected to much miseries and will be of bad 
disposition. 

Surya, Mai gal in the 5" Bhava: will have many sons and plurality of wives, will be 
accessible to enemies, be cruel, fearful and will always be interested in sins. 

Stirya, Budh in the 5 Bhava: will be interested in committing much sinful acts, will 
have all kinds of afflictions, be cruel, be forsaken by his wife and will be prone to evils. 

Surya, Guru in the 5 Bhava: will be devoid of knowledge of Vedas, will eat others’ 
food, be attached to others’ wives, be very hard in disposition and be devoid of good 
qualities. 

Surya, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be bereft of good qualities and vigour, will be 
miserable, conquered by enemies, will be troubled by weakness, be disinterested in Castras 
and will be of bad mentality. 

Surya, Cani in the 5"" Bhava: will sell articles, be grateful, interested in being virtuous, 
will be happy with wife and sons and will be ever plentiful. 

Candr, Mai gal in the 5" Bhava: will be very happy, be learned and will believe in 
God and confide in preceptors. 

Candr, Budh: will be honoured, be youthful in appearance, will beget many sons and 
will respect G ods and preceptors. 

Candr, Guru: will be wounded, be favourable to Castras, be happy by nature, be a 
Lord and will utter prayers in an undertone. 

Candr, Cukr: will be endowed with treasures and wisdom, will always be happy, will 
have more daughters and be dear to his wife. 

Candr, Cani: will be devoid of issue and happiness, be of worldly disposition, be of 
bad mind and will be rejected, as per Castraic terms. 

Mai gal, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will be modest, will incur losses due to illusion 
regarding agricultural, be cruel, be interested in living in foreign countries and will adopt 
relatives and sons. 

Mai gal, Cukr: will earn more enemies, be always insulted by mean people, be 
illusioned and will disrespect Brahmins. 

M ai gal, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will have wounded limbs, be won over by ladies, be 
wicked, ungrateful, impatient and be not wealthy. 

Budh, Guru in the 5" B hava: will have many sons, be desirous, of success, be dear to 
women (or wife), be pleasing in appearance, be dutiful and be not greedy. 

Budh, Cukr in the 5“ Bhava: will have auspicious speech, be interested in surprising 
acts, be respectful to Brahmins, be skilful and be resolute. 

Budh, Gani in the 5" B hava: will have a defective limb, be not happy, be cruel and will 
be naturally inauspicious. 

Guru, Cukr in the 5 B hava: will be very fortunate, be chief among his men, will have 
many sons, be wealthy and happy. 


25 


542 


543 


544 


545 


546 


547 


548 


549 


550 


551 


552 


553 


554 


555 


556 


vsti 


558 


559 


560 


561 


562 


563 


Guru, Gani in the 5‘ Bhava: will be very fortunate, be not good, be friendly to bad 
people, be interested in intoxicant drinks, will wear rags, be not praiseworthy and will 
indulge in unholy acts. 

Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will have daughters, will be addicted to females, will be 
interested in sinful tales, be ungrateful, be ugly and be not praiseworthy. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal in the 5“ B hava: will be endowed with fame, be devoid of good 
deeds, will be of loathsome disposition and will acquire physical deformity due to self- 
made activities. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will be very sinful, be deprived of his property, 
be relieved of his sons, be devoid of happiness, be won over by his wife and be fickle- 
minded. 

Stirya, Candr, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of sons, be very valorous, be 
learned, will perform good deeds, be very kind and will not be friendly. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will not have good qualities, will be interested in 
others’ money, will have more enemies and be without kindness and patience. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, mental worries and fear, 
will create nuisance to the people in the world, will be addicted to vices, will be endowed 
with sons and be not favourable to relatives. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will be troubled by severe wounds, be devoid 
of friendship, will be kind, poor, will be bereft of freedom and can guess others’ matters. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 5" B hava: will accompany base people, be very sinful, be 
disabled, dejected, unable to donate, will hate his wife and be devoid of manliness. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of ornaments, will eat much, will 
hate people and will be refused by them and will be hard-hearted. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 5 Bhava: will have sinful sons and daughters, will not be 
materialistic, will have sons bereft of education and will hate good people. 

Stiya, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will have sinful sons, will be given to anger, be 
impotent, be very sinful, will respect Brahmins, be miserable and will have miserable 
friends. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr: will have barren daughter, be ungrateful, will have many wives, be 
subjected to grief, be sinful and be bereft of happiness, money and food. 

Surya, Budh, Cani: will not have children and money, will have prominent belly, 
prominent buttocks, long knees and small feet. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 5™ Bhava: will be uncharitably disposed, will cheat others, be 
cunning, will indulge in jugglery and will be prone to hurt by arrows. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 5‘ Bhava: will be forsaken by his relatives, be troubled by 
poverty, be interested in quarrels and be fearless. 

Surya, Cukr, Cani in the 5" B hava: will not be courageous, will be wicked, be a dunce 
and be interested in foreign countries. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will not be bold, be not masculine, will not 
have charitable mind, be interested in gambling and sexual pleasures. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will be timid, be wealthy, be short-tempered, 
will spend in bad ways, be attached to his relatives, be not wise and be very proud. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 5° Bhava: will be in the company of base people, be not 
beautiful, will suffer from rheumatic pains, be not famous and will be rejected by people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be untruthful, be not wealthy, be not 
happy, will sleep much, will have ugly friends, be wicked and fearless. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, will have 
good qualities, be virtuous and will respect his parents. 


26 


564 


565 


566 


567 


568 


569 


570 


571 


572 


573 


574 


575 


576 


577 


578 


579 


580 


581 


582 


583 


584 


585 


Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will have stout limbs, will not be greedy, will be 
attached to others, will be relieved of sins by visiting shrines and will be worthy. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 5“ Bhava: will be meritorious, famous, firm and charitable, 
will have knowledge, or arts and be devoid of desires. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 5‘" Bhava: will have pleasing voice, will have hair touching 
the foreface, be charitable, be devoid of enemies and will have pleasing looks. 

Candr, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be wise and famous, will be an expert poet, be 
devoid of enemies, be very happy, be of good disposition and will have beautiful face. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 5 Bhava: will have good qualities and good nature, will be 
an astrologer, will maintain his physique beautifully, will be lustful and interested in 
listening to religious accounts. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will hold the “flag of charity” aloft (i.e. will be 
highly charitable and will say “no” to none, as Karna, or Maha Bharata). will be truthful 
and will maintain only truth, will be very intelligent, be bashful, enthusiastic and 
courageous. 

Mal gal, Budh, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be bestowed with luck, will be devoid of 
mental peace, be charitable, be favourable to good people and endowed with gold, robes 
and ornaments. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cani in the 5” Bhava: will not have wife, be unkind, will not possess 
good qualities and will be with relatives. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 5“ Bhava: will have good disposition, will be endowed with 
thin clothes and ornaments, will be an acknowledged person and will conquer enemies. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be kind, will know business tactics, will have 
knowledge of V edas, will be friendly to good people, be patient and will respect God and 
teachers. 

Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be wicked, be shameless, be unjust, will 
forsake his wife and will be very proud. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be endowed with precious stones, will respect 
Brahmins, will have knowledge of many Castras and will make his own place, as heavens. 

Budh, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will respect teachers, will learn great things, will be 
chief in his lineage and will attain good friends. 

Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be bereft of children, will have fat body, fat 
neck, fat shoulders and thin ears, will gamble and cheat others. 

Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5" B hava: will possess highly good qualities, will be endowed 
with corns, will live in others’ houses and be interested in learning Castras. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 5" Bhava: will blame the dearest, will be against 
his elders, will be unprincipled, be shameless and be of bad disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 3" Bhava: will be bereft of sons, be immodest, 
indigent and be devoid of kindness and virtues. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will have long penes, itchy thighs, be 
poor and interested in others’ wives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 5" B hava: will be ungrateful, be happy, will enjoy 
authority, will have mean profession and be devoid relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 5 Bhava: will be very happy, will be subjected to 
sexual pressure and belongs to noble lineage, but will be unjust. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be a tale-bearer, will give up his 
religion and will hate the virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Gani in the 5 Bhava: will be unkind, unintelligible, be not 
proud, will possess ornaments and be in the company of sinners. 


27 


586 


587 


588 


589 


590 


591 


592 


593 


594 


595 


596 


597 


598 


599 


600 


601 


602 


603 


604 


605 


606 


Stirya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be interested in chariots (i.e. 
conveyances), be immodest and will like bathing with application of scents etc. (i.e. the 
native will enjoy rich bathing conveniences, like modern appliances, costly soaps, oils, 
cream etc.) 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be happy, will make futile efforts, be 
devoid of friends and sons, be dear and will perform wicked acts. 

Surya, Mal gal, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will not be splendourous, will perform 
condemnable acts, will have vary many profession and be highly ill-tempered. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will give up his duties, be unjust, dull, 
indolent and will like ugly people. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 5 Bhava: will be bereft of strength, be a thief, be 
interested in sexual stories, will serve others and be devoid of courage. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 5™ B hava: will be miserable on account of wounds, 
be not virtuous and will always perform against Castras. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Gani in the 5 Bhava: will have revolutionary thinking, will be 
troubled by serious diseases, will not have intelligence, be not virtuous and be without 
ears. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will have defective arm., will not be 
interested in materials donated for performance of shati etc. and be subjected to vices. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be infamous, be not efficacious, be in 
the company of sinners and be hasty. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will perform blame worthy acts, will be 
interested in bad females and in serving bad people, be not famous, be unkind and will 
hate Brahmins. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 5"" B hava: will be insulted by others, will wear rags, will 
be impure, will have untimely food and will be troubled by poverty at all times. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 5"" B hava: will be devoid of interest in meritorious acts, 
will not be intelligent, be interested in studying unworthy books and be impartial. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 5“ Bhava: will be wise, learned, interested in 
V edas etc., will conquer his enemies and will be of friendly disposition. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 5" B hava: will be fortunate, learned, modest and 
will be skilful. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 5" B hava: will be immodest, will be interested in his 
own religion, will be courageous, charitable and highly respectable. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 3" Bhava: will have wounds (itches etc.), will 
protect Brahmins, be of good qualities and be famous for self respect. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 5° Bhava: will like cold things, will know the 
meaning of various Castras, will be proud, be a poet and be liked by people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will help people, will befriend many, will 
have various ornaments, be patient and will be connected with religious activities. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be endowed with sons and wealth, will 
be rich with application of sandal, saffron etc. and robes and ornaments, will have 
abundant riches and will enjoy happiness through children. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will uphold truth, be modest, will be very 
charitable and be honoured by the learned. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be broad minded, will conquer his five 
senses, will like cleanliness, be good-looking, be endowed with fortune and courage and be 
not greedy. 


28 


607 


608 


609 


610 


611 


612 


613 


614 


615 


616 


617 


618 


619 


620 


621 


622 


623 


624 


625 


626 


627 


628 


Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5 Bhava: will be worshipped by kings, will be 
interested in S astras and religion and be endowed with sons and wealth. 

0 0Q gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will have knowledge of the Supreme 
Spirit, will have satisfied mind and be dear to king. 

0 DQ gal, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 5" Bhava: will have beautiful body, be free from 
desires, will have principles, be chief in his lineage, be intelligent and pure. 

0 DQ gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be broad minded, will observe 
virtues, be expert in father’s assignments, be patient and will like all people. 

0 DQ gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5” Bhava: will be good in arts, will know the 
meanings of V edas, will have quadrupeds, be very pure and famous. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will have abundant wealth, learning and 
virtues. 

Surya, Candr, Mal gal, Budh, Guru in the 5" Bhava: will have ugly and dirty 
physique, will be endowed with children and suffer from many blemishes. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be sexually passionate, will 
have knowledge of mathematics and will be troubled by serious diseases. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be eunuch, will have no 
knowledge of letters (i.e. illiterate), be devoid of vedic and Castraic learning, be hard- 
hearted and be not virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 5” Bhava: be devoid of Lakshmi, be very 
short tempered, will wander in vain and will possess relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be interested in befriending 
bad people, will have external show, or courtesy, will not have good history and be bereft 
of truth and honour. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 5° Bhava: will be devoid of relatives, sons, 
wealth and happiness, be interested in gambling and be inimical. 

Stirya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will have a wife bereft of good 
character, will be forsaken by his relatives, will be perished by Gods and Brahmins and be 
impatient. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be of bad disposition, be 
forsaken by his relatives and will be inimically disposed to good people. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 5!" B hava: will spend on bad deeds, will have 
self-made evils, will be troubled by expenses, be unkind and be interested in sinful acts. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, sons, 
honour and splendour and be subjected to misery. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 5° Bhava: will suffer from marital blemish, 
be sick and timid will make futile efforts. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 5" B hava: will be a dunce, be forsaken by his 
wife, will be of pleased disposition and will fear war, or quarrels. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be shameless, will win over 
good people, will lose his father, be a drunkard and be ungrateful. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5 Bhava: will suffer from diseases of head, 
will have wounds on the body and be devoid of wealth and honour. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will suffer from diseases of eye, be 
given to severe anger, be ugly and will always wear rags. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will not be enthusiastic, be very 
wicked and will face evils by unnecessary talks. 


29 


629 


630 


631 


632 


633 


634 


635 


636 


637 


638 


639 


640 


641 


642 


643 


644 


645 


646 


647 


648 


649 


650 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 5" B hava: will be very valorous, be free from 
vices, be a lord, be respectable, will be endowed with sons and wealth, will conquer his five 
senses and be famous. 

Candr, Maigal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 5 Bhava: will be wicked, be beyond 
assessment, will have abundant wealth and be affectionate to his children. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 3" Bhava: will be an expert in minerals, 
mercury and water equipment and will become famous in such dealings. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be widely famous, be chief 
among his relatives and race-men, be modest will be endowed with ornaments and will 
control his mind greatly. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be and eloquent speaker, be 
modest and be endowed with mercy, charitability and truth. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 5" Bhava: will be subjected to penury 
and grief, be mean minded, be of thieving disposition and be rash in speech. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be chief in his race, be 
inimically disposed to the public, will possess much distressed a body and be forsaken by 
his relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 5" B hava: will honour guests, will have 
broad and beautiful eyes, will practice penance and be justly disposed. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, 
will live in foreign places and will be able to guess others’ mind. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 5" Bhava: will be cruel, wicked, be 
devoid of wicked people’s company and be attached to sons, friends and meritorious acts. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5" Bhava: will not be efficacious, will 
hate women, will lose wealth and will be honoured by enemies (i.e. will not be troubled by 
them). 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5 Bhava: will be highly interested in 
the Supreme Spirit, be chief, wealthy and amiable to relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 5 Bhava: will be interested in 
the knowledge of the Supreme Spirit, be dear to his relatives, be happy, skilful in all arts 
and be a heard. 

6th 

Surya, Candr: will have ugly face, be poor, short-lived, will suffer from diseases, will 
always have desires and will be free from enemies. 

Surya, Man_ gal in the 6 Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will destroy enemies, will 
attain success in war and will enjoy wide fame. 

Surya, Budh in the 6” Bhava: will be endowed with great riches, be famous for his 
abundant wealth, be fearless and dear to king. 

Surya, Guru in the 6” Bhava: will be sickly disposed, short-lived, will have more 
enemies and be devoid of friends. 

Surya, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be troubled by serious diseases, be shameless, be 
devoid of wealth, be ugly, subjected to utter misery and will be worried. 

Surya, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be free from sickness and sin, will be very wise, be 
endowed with weapon and wealth, will have servants and will be of good nature. 

Candr, Mai gal in the 6” Bhava: will be troubled by diseases, will lose his intellect, be 
splendouruos, be unfortunate and will face killing (be killed) and be imprisoned. 

Candr, Budh in the 6" Bhava: will be forsake by the people of his race and by his 
relatives, will not be very rich, will have a bad wife, be timid and cuing. 


30 


651 


652 


653 


654 


655 


656 


657 


658 


659 


660 


661 


662 


663 


664 


665 


666 


667 


668 


669 


670 


671 


Candr, Guru in the 6" B hava: will be devoid of intelligence and long life, will develop 
defects in limbs due to sickness and be devoid of desires and good qualities. 

Candr, Ckr in the 6" Bhava: will have a accomplished physique, will be defeated by 
enemies, be interested in sinful acts, will have balanced expenditure and will have bad 
character. 

Candr, Cni in the 6" Bhava: will have bad mentality, be timid, unintelligent, will have 
a distressed body, be ugly and be devoid of sexual desires. 

Mai al, Budh in the 6" Bhava: will have bad mentality, be timid, unintelligent, will 
have a distressed body, be ugly and be devoid of sexual desires. 

Mail gal, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will have few sons, be of wicked disposition, be 
insulted by others, will not observe any religious conduct, be uncharitable and intent upon 
promoting quarrels. 

M ai gal, Cukr: will be interested in women, be conquered by women, be interested in 
sinful acts, be intelligent, wicked and will not possess Castraic learning. 

M ai gal, Cani: will have firm mental disposition, will have hard (strong) limbs, will 
conquer his enemies, be an expert in moral merits. 

Budh, Guru in the 6” Bhava: will be lazy, devoid of intelligence, troubled by kings, 
wealthy and interested in sexual acts. 

Budh, Cukr: will have many conveyances, be happy, very valorous, dear to people, 
liked by women and be highly skilful. 

Budh, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will have many enemies, be sickly disposed, be devoid of 
strength and will like others, but not his own men. 

Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be interested in sexual acts, be fickle-minded about 
ladies, be addicted to liquor, be ungrateful, sinful and will cheat. 

Guru, Cani in the 6" B hava: will be forsaken by wife, be sick, be devoid of truth and 
wealth, be interested in unethical deeds and be always miserable. 

Cukr, Cani in the 6 Bhava: will be very valorous, will be endowed with wealth, 
fortune and happiness, will have strength (perfection) of all limbs and will destroy 
enemies. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal in the 6" Bhava: will be of mean disposition, will have ugly 
mentality, be troubled by diseases, will cheat others, be unkind and will be in the company 
of bad people. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 6” Bhava: will be sinful, given to anger, will have disloyal 
servants, be devoid of wealth and grains, will fear and be ruthless. 

Surya, Candr, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will experience various miseries, will be forsaken 
by children, wife and servants, will have mean profession and no wealth. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be mean, strong, egoistic, of ugly mentality, 
devoid of affection. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 6 Bhava: will be sinful, be not attached to people, will have 
hard legs, be fearful and hasty. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 6" Bhava: be sinful, not attached to people, will have 
various kids of wealth, will conquer his enemies, will have many friends and be devoid of 
war (quarrel) etc. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be brave, be interested in CAstras, will 
conquer his five senses. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will have various kids of happiness, be dear to 
women, be expert in always enjoying sexual pleasures, be very rich and just. 


ol 


672 


673 


674 


675 


676 


677 


678 


679 


680 


681 


682 


683 


684 


685 


686 


687 


688 


689 


690 


691 


692 


Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will enjoy laded property, will have pure body 
(in.e. defectless body), will possess horses, elephants and wealth, be very skilful and will 
do meritorious acts. 

Surya, Budh, Guru in the 6" B hava: will be sensuous, be interested in acts of blemish, 
will not have religious faith, be bereft of good nature and mercy and will cheat. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 6™ Bhava: will experience various kids of blemishes, be very 
hard-hearted and be devoid of truth, mercy, shame and intelligence. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 6” Bhava: will be bereft of beauty (good appearance), sons 
and wife, will always perform evil acts, be fearful in appearance, be exceedingly in 
temperament and be a skilful speaker. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be exceedingly greedy, will possess gold, robe 
and ornaments, be ugly in appearance and will be devoid of intelligence. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be clever in performance, will be interested in 
singing, will have several enjoyments and be interested in digging tasks and wells. 

Surya, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be dear to good people, will be a eloquent 
speaker, be interested in Castras, be skillful, be highly learned and will have knowledge of 
Castras. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 6” Bhava: will experience various measures of miseries, 
be untruthful, be intelligent, will eat other’s food and be able to guess about others’ mid. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 6"" Bhava: will be devoid of truth and wealth, will be very 
much wounded because of empty, will lose courage and will be devoid of lordship. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be poor, be bereft of relatives, will have the 
nature to remain pleased, be dear to his workmen and be troubled by the three 
temperaments, in.e. wind, phlegm and bile. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 6" B hava: will experience of loss of children, will go for 
empty, will have injured body, will have desires, be defeated and listless towards Castras. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 6” Bhava: will be short-lived, distressed, devoid of Castraic 
learning, interested in blaming others and be a atheist. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be subjected to various diseases, be little 
efficacious, be bereft ow wife and be always troubled by poverty. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be troubled by miseries, will possess sexual 
desires, be not interested in helping others, be not virtuous and be poor. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be naturally a sinner, will lose money on 
account of religious observances, will become infamous, be very mean and be blamed by 
relatives. 

Candr, Guru, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be bereft of intelligence, be very miserable, 
cruel, cuing and devoid of self-respect. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be very miserable, be devoid of wisdom, 
learning and modesty and be troubled. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be courageous, will conquer his enemies, 
will not be mean minded, ie broad minded, will hold the flag of virtue aloft and be sinless. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 6” B hava: will speak truth, will be of good disposition, will 
possess gold, precious stones, lad and Castraic wisdom. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will have various kids of enjoyments, will control 
his five senses, be wealthy, very beautiful, attached to his wife and will blame others. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 6” Bhava: will have good conduct, be dear to people will 
possess high degree of knowledge of Castras, be justly disposed and will be liked by many. 


32 


693 


694 


695 


696 


697 


698 


699 


700 


701 


702 


703 


704 


705 


706 


707 


708 


709 


710 


711 


712 


713 


714 


715 


M ai gal, Guru, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be sick, be bereft of parents (in.e. will lose 
them early), be fiercely disposed, be interested in sinful acts and be subjected to 
blemishes. 

0 DQ gal, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be kindly disposed, be dear to women, be 
interested in others’ jobs, will follow good people and be virtuous. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 6" B hava: will make one conquer enemies, famous, valorous 
and influencial in general. 

Budh, Guru, Cni in the 6" Bhava: will have on sons, will be fettered, will be black 
complexioned, will wear rags, will be devoid of good history and will be against justice. 

Budh, Ckr, Gani in the 6" Bhava: will be very poor, be not valorous and will hate 
Castras, preceptors and Brahmis. 

Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will have a emaciated body, be unkind, unjust, poor 
and over-anxious and will dislike the virtuous. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 6" Bhava: will always have distressed mid, will 
make futile efforts, will experience sickness and fear, will have ugly eyes and wicked mid. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 6” Bhava: will have big teeth, big eyes and big 
one, be shameless and will always be filled with fear. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will have a clean physique, be devoid of 
vedic learning, be fettered, over-anxious and harsh in speech. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 6” Bhava: will have injured limbs, be troubled, be 
not splendouruos, will cheat others, be restless and will be won over by the fair sex. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 6” Bhava: will be a eunuch, dunce, simpleton, be 
very timid and be insulted by one and all. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will suffer contortion on account of 
various diseases, be interested in others’ food and will have little friendship. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be interested in bad deeds and 
untruth, will invite risks and be a simpleton. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will not be famous, be interested in others’ 
wives, will be very unkind and will cheat others. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will have a emaciated body, will join 
foolish persons, will be fettered, or killed, will have mean profession and will be of very 
bad disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will indulge in bad acts, be devoid of 
honour of Gods, preceptors and Brahmins, be insulted by others and be hard-hearted. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 6” Bhava: will destroy his enemies, be courageous, 
skillful in speech, worshiped by the king, interested in good qualities and will be endowed 
with intelligence. 

Strya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 6" B hava: will be very kid, will have a equally grow 
up physique, be a eloquent speaker, be courageous and dear to Brahmis. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be dear to virtuous, courageous, 
conceit-manifested, fierce in appearance, happily disposed and dear to all. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 6” B hava: will have agriculture, as chief profession, 
be principled, will be a good consultant on M antras and be dear to king. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the &" Bhava: will be of wicked disposition, be dear to 
his me and will be endowed with splendour and fame. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 6 Bhava: will be skillful, will join and assembly of 
skillful me, be famous, amicable to elders and will always be interested in meritorious acts. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be principal among intelligent people, 
will conquer his enemies, will possess a beautiful body and will be sweetly disposed. 


33 


716 


717 


718 


719 


720 


721 


722 


723 


724 


725 


726 


uae 


728 


729 


730 


731 


732 


733 


734 


120 


736 


737 


Surya, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 6" B hava: will have noble notions, be not intelligent, 
will have Castraic knowledge, fame and conveyances. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 6” Bhava: will visit shrines, will vary anxious, be dear 
to good people and interested in learning. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6” Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will be capable of 
bestowing (or giving away freely anything asked for, like the Divine Kapla Tree), be 
skillful, very efficacious and be well placed. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the &” Bhava: will be highly learned, be interested in 
women, will possess wealth and be justly disposed. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth be defective 
limbed and attached to people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, be 
interested in living in foreign countries, will have wicked disposition, be sexually troubled 
and will have a emaciated body. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 6 Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, be of hard 
disposition and be averse to Castras. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 6” Bhava: will be subjected to penury, be devoid of 
pleasures, will always have enemies, be bad and fickle minded. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Gani in the 6"" B hava: will be untruthful, be excessively windy in 
temperament, will be in the company of bad people, be unkind and hard-hearted. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 6° Bhava: will be short-lived, will be physically 
troubled, be shameless and be intent on committing sinful acts. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be of bad nature, be interested in 
religious principles, be of cuing disposition and will hate his teacher. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will depend on others, be wickedly 
disposed, forsake by his wife, hard hearted and commit sin. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will deserve hatred be, cruel, devoid of so 
and wife, will follow his promised and will be troubled by sexual feelings. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 6" B hava: will be sportive in spirit, pleasing to eyes, 
dear to king and proudly disposed. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 6” Bhava: will be broad minded, be pleasing to eyes, 
dear to king, proud, unkind and virtuous. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the é" Bhava: will worship Fire God, will be interested in 
sacrifices, observances and worships. and will ear merits by visiting shrines. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6” B hava: will be courageous, be a skillful astrologer 
and will be famous in performing religious sacrifices. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be charitable, dirty in disposition and 
will be conquered by females. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 6" Bhava: will be ugly, immodest, will be 
troubled by others and will cheat others. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be highly short-tempered, be 
a top-class tale-bearer and a thief, be ungrateful, be interested in making enemies and be 
miserable. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 6" B hava: will suffer from venereal diseases, 
will steal and be averse to good people. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be interested in bad deeds, 
will lose wealth will have knowledge of T antras and will suffer from diseases of mouth, or 
face. 


34 


738 


739 


740 


741 


742 


743 


744 


745 


746 


747 


748 


749 


750 


751 


752 


753 


754 


Risks, 


756 


dad, 


758 


759 


760 


Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 6” Bhava: have diseases of head, will suffer 
from fever, be not wise and be very ugly. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of courage, be a 
dunce and be bereft of wisdom and learning. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of splendour, be not 
out-spoke, be devoid of wealth and be interested in meritorious acts. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 6" B hava: will wear rags, will suffer from metal 
distress, will be wounded, be not truthful, be disabled and indigent. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 6" Bhava: will be hard-hearted, sinful, cruel, 
will violate people and will not be successful in his undertakings. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6 Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, sons and 
principles and will be conquered by base persons. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, will 
have prodigal sons, be distressed and subjected to diseases. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 6" B hava: will be shameless, unkind, will join 
base me and will acquire diseases. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 6” Bhava: will be troubled by wounds, be 
devoid of truth and purity, be not of good nature and be diseased. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6” Bhava: will be hated by people, be devoid 
of self-respect, be a simpleton, be interested in bad acts and devoid of conduct. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be devoid of sons, be interested 
in others’ women, be very poor and cruel. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the &" Bhava: will be free from diseases, be of 
dirty disposition, be libidinous and be not virtuous. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 6" Bhava: will suffer from stragary (painful 
discharge of urine), be bereft of wife, be dirty and lazy. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be mentally distressed right 
from birth, will have surprising windy diseases (in.e. difficult to be cured), be ungrateful 
and unprincipled. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be forsake by people, be 
interested in others’ wives, be sinful and intent upon living in others countries. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" B hava: will have more enemies, be devoid of 
so and wife, be interested in money and be lazy. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be bereft of Castraic learning, 
sons and wealth and be forsake by all. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 6" Bhava: will have trembling hands 
and legs, will do base deeds, be fearful and conquered by enemies. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 6" B hava: will be very miserable, be a 
drukardd, be devoid of shoulders (in.e. drooped etc.) and will not have robes and 
ornaments. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will not be splendouruos, be 
ill-natured and be unprincipled. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will not be patient, will 
cheat, be sick and be conquered by wicked people. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" B hava: will be of crooked disposition, 
be unkind, be very poor, be devoid of wife and relatives and will destroy the king (i.e. will 
prove ominous to the king). 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6 Bhava: will be of wandering 
disposition and be highly intelligent. 


35 


761 
762 
763 
764 
765 
766 
767 
768 
769 
710 
771 
Fi 
773 
774 
715 
716 
777 
778 
779 
780 
781 
782 
783 
784 


785 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 6" Bhava: will be of wicked disposition, 
be immodest, will wader unfruitfully and be bereft of self-respect. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 6" Bhava: will be truthful, just, 
virtuous, skillful, wealthy and famous. 

7 

Surya, Candr: will be distressed, be hasty, not virtuous and highly cunning. 

Surya, Mai gal in the 7 B hava: will be interested in others’ wives, be not charitable, 
be troubled by huger, attached to preceptors and Brahmins and be cruel. 

Surya, Budh: will have a insincere wife, will be a eunuch, be devoid of sexual 
happiness, be unfruitful (not result manifesting) and be endowed with relatives. 

Surya, Guru in the 7” Bhava: will have little happiness, be harsh in speech, will 
depend on others for food and grow and be miserable. 

Surya, Cukr in the 7” Bhava: will eat others’ food, be interested in serving others, be 
devoid of relatives, be distressed and indigent. 

Surya, Gani in the 7™ Bhava: will be devoid of conjugal pleasures, will have a wicked 
wife, will ear more enemies, be troubled by diseases and be wrought by fear. 

Candr, Mai gal in the 7" Bhava: will suffer from stomachial disorders, be devoid of 
learning, be fierce and will acquire fear due to his aims and illicit intercourse. 

Candr, Budh: will have numerous sons and wife, be fickle-minded, be devoid of truth 
and mercy and be dear to relatives. 

Candr, Guru in the 7 Bhava: will learn many CaAastras, will have many friends, be 
beautiful and be worshiped by the king. 

Candr, Cukr in the 7" B hava: will acquire a auspicious wife, will enjoy various kids of 
wealth and pleasures, be very happy and intelligent. 

Candr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be sickly disposed, be very timid, be interested in 
carnal pleasures, be cruel, will have servants and be interested in others’ wives. 

Mai gal, Budh in the 7” Bhava: will be of crooked disposition, will cheat, be not 
splendourous and be defective limbed. 

M ai gal, Guru in the 7” Bhava: will be interested in joining base people, will wander 
fruitlessly, will have injured, or afflicted body on account of sin. 

M ai gal, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will be rejected by people, will be troubled by blood- 
oozig body, be insulted by others and be unjustly disposed. 

Mai gal, Cani in the 7 Bhava: will suffer from various diseases, will have an 
emaciated body will promote quarrels, will do wicked acts and will be highly beautiful. 

Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will have high metal latitude, be proud, fickle-minded, 
distressed, be a sped-thrift and be troubled by sexual feelings. 

Budh, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will acquire a virtuous wife, will have physical comforts 
and happiness, be unkind and be ungrateful to wife. 

Budh, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will have a wicked wife, be physically troubled on 
account of sex, will have vices, be insulted by others and be not virtuous. 

Guru, Cukr in the 7 Bhava: will house various diseases, will have strange voice and 
auspicious body, be cruel, praiseworthy, famous and pious of God and Brahmins. 

Guru, Cani in the 7‘" Bhava: will be conquered by women will misappropriate 
women’s wealth, be devoid of truth and wealth, be a liar and sier. 

Cukr, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will have many enemies, will eat unpalatable foods, will 
violate others’ beds, be shameless and will nourish others. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal in the 7" B hava: will have physical troubles out of sickness, be 
fickle-minded, will suffer from sexual distress, be not virtuous and will be won over by 
women. 


36 


786 


787 


788 


789 


790 


791 


792 


793 


794 


795 


796 


797 


798 


799 


800 


801 


802 


803 


804 


805 


806 


807 
808 


Surya, Candr, Budh in the 7” Bhava: will be devoid of sos, will join base women, will 
be hard in disposition, be troubled and be sensuous. 

Surya, Candr, Guru in the 7” Bhava: will incur diseases, will not be firm in regard to 
females, be cruel and sinfully disposed. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr in the 7” Bhava: will be deprived of wife, will have hatred, anger 
and enmity, will live in foreign countries and be inimical to preceptors. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 7" B hava: will be wicked, interested in the next world, frank 
and will have knowledge of J ustice. 

Surya, Mal gal, Budh in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of efficacy and pleasure, be 
interested in eating others’ food, will depend on others and be sinful. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 7” Bhava: will be insulted by others, will join base me, be 
interested in bad deeds and will not adopt religious observances. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr in the 7” Bhava: will be bereft of distinction, be not kind., be 
sinfully inclined, be full of diseases, be not learned and be unwise. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 7 Bhava: will possess and ugly physique, will have a wife 
devoid of character, will be of bad mentality, be ungrateful, fear-filled, emaciated due to 
libidinous nature and cruel in disposition. 

Surya, Budh, Guru in the 7" B hava: will be of bad nature, be fear stricken, be forsake 
by elders, be not kind, be unwealthy and will wear rags. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 7” Bhava: will be inclined to join base me, be merciless, be 
interested in stealing, will have a mean wife, will not have profane knowledge derived 
from worldly experience, but be intelligent. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 7‘" Bhava: will have ugly body, over anxious, interested in his 
mean wife, fear-stricke, will watch for weak points and be wicked. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will be unkind, will incur disease after disease, be 
forsake by his wife, will join base me and will not trust in Castras. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will have a dejected wife, will not be attached to 
people, be poor in mentality and will tremble with fear. 

Surya, Gukr, Gani in the 7" Bhava: will be libidinous, be very happy, be skilful in 
having sexual enjoyments, will conquer senses and will join charitable people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 7" Bhava: will be ugly, be scholarly, poor, cruel, will lose 
his wife and knowledge. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be helpful, truthful, will have a skilful wife, 
be interested in war and will always be inclined towards sexual enjoyment. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 7" B hava: will wear rags, be fierce, be not attached to the 
virtuous, be hard-hearted and will do blame-worthy acts. 

Candr, Mai gal, Gani in the 7" Bhava: will be interested in good company, be out- 
spoke, interested in V edas and be favourable to preceptors and G ods. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will enjoy abundant pleasures, will speak 
eloquently, be interested in women and in Castras and be a expert warrior. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will perform meritorious acts, be honourable, 
good-natured and modest. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be rich, will be endowed with food, grains and 
belief and will have many sons. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will perform meritorious acts, will be dear to 
women, be fearless, virtuous and famous. 

Candr, Guru, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be worshiped eve by Indra (i.e. will be so 
superior and divine a personage), will have knowledge of Mantras, will possess elephants 
and horses, will conquer his senses and will visit shrines. 


ey 


809 


810 


811 


812 


813 


814 


815 


816 


817 


818 


819 


820 


821 


822 


823 


824 


825 


826 


827 


828 


829 


Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 7‘ Bhava: will be skilful in achieving carnal pleasures, will be 
great in Castraic knowledge, will acquire wealth, will make distinct progress, be virtuous 
and will use money for good deeds. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be great, be meritorious in acts, be 
worshiped by enemies, be jealous and dear to good people. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will be subjected to troubles, will lose his 
wealth, be interested in eating meat, be very bad in disposition, will kill (i.e. be a butcher, 
murderer etc.) and be famous. 

M al gal, Budh, Cani in the 7” Bhava: not give in the text. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 7 Bhava: will have broad eyes, be bashful will be 
endowed with fame and happiness, adbe amiable to Brahmins. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be very short-tempered, be highly inimical, 
be devoid of luck, be troubled by diseases and will join bad people. 

M ai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be auspicious, be devoid of intelligence, will 
be a good servant in royal administration, be free from enemies, be just and honoured by 
his relatives. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 7 Bhava: will be chief among kings, be very wealthy, very 
happy, be endowed with a virtuous wife and be dear to people. 

Budh, Guru, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be famous, will be endowed with several kids 
of wealth, Castraic acquaintance and palaces and be highly meritorious. 

Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be worshiped by the king, will conquer his 
enemies, will enjoy laded properties and wealth, be always meritorious, noble and skilful. 

Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 7" B hava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, be truthful, will 
have frequent movements (from place to place), will have good nature and be attached to 
Brahmins. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of valour, be unkind, 
interested in sinful stories, will make futile efforts and will be highly short-tempered. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, kind, will 
have many wives and many sos and be friendly in disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will be bereft of wife, interested in 
blaming others, will speak little truth (in.e. sometimes truthful and sometimes not), be 
hard-hearted and be not inclined towards charity. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 7 Bhava: will have a wicked wife, be bereft of 
sons, be cruel, will perform meritorious acts be pretentious in disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will have many wives, will be of false 
disposition and be blame worthy. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will face many difficulties due to bad wife, 
be very impetuous and be phlegmatic. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 7™ Bhava: will be attached to bad people, will visit 
prostitutes, be sinful, ungrateful, be troubled by bilious complaints, be wicked and be 
unintelligible. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will be dirty, will perform on-Castraic acts, 
be intent on living in foreign places a be not wise. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be devoid of sons, will be a great liar, 
will have a emaciated body and be interested in promoting quarrels. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be night-blind, be fierce, be subjected 
to much anguish, will experience evils, will lose wealth, be interested in vedic learning and 
be of mean mind. 


38 


830 


831 


832 


833 


834 


835 


836 


837 


838 


839 


840 


841 


842 


843 


844 


845 


846 


847 


848 


849 


850 


851 


Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 7" B hava: will be always subjected to troubles, will 
have thin body and will be mentally troubled due to wife’s blemish. 

Surya, Mal gal, Budh, Cukr in the 7 Bhava: will possess and ugly wife, will be of bad 
character, be adverse to Castras, be devoid of sons and good principles. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will make one a army chief, a king’s 
minister, do base acts and libidinous. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 7” Bhava: will be unkind, be interested in sexual 
accounts, be cuing, be a drunkard and will acquire bad, or mean learning. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be bereft of wife, be inimical to 
others, will promote quarrels and will be highly afflicted. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 7" B hava: will be devoid of money, devoid of shame, 
be harsh in disposition, be notoriously sinful (i.e. well-known for his bad deeds) and be 
interested in his own people. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will be free from diseases, be of pretentious 
disposition, be fond of meat and be defeated by enemies. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, will have on 
knowledge of vedas and other Castras, will be unfortunate and will promote quarrels. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will give good face, facial beauty, truthful 
disposition and virtue. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 7" Bhava: will be give to much anger, be harsh in 
disposition, be devoid of wealth and sons and will cheat others. 

Candr, Maigal, Budh, Guru in the 7" Bhava: will perform auspicious acts, be 
beautiful, will have pleased mid and be a lord. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 7” Bhava: will possess a good-looking wife, be 
himself good looking, will have many sons and be just. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be very courageous, be liberal in 
acts, be intelligent and be respectful to Brahmins and G ods. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, CGukr in the 7™ Bhava: will be free from jealousy, be principled 
devoid of principles be charitable and skilful. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will possess beautiful appearance, be 
dear to women, will have beautiful and broad eyes, be eloquent in speech and be dear to 
kings. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 7™ Bhava: will be liked by good people, be truthful, 
endowed with wisdom, be skillful, be devoid of fear and be unjust. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 7 B hava: will be dear to guests, be charitable, be of 
good disposition, be greatly truthful and will respect preceptors. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 7" Bhava: will be liked by virtuous people, will have 
sons, be charitable, pleased, will have beautiful wife and be intelligent. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be modest, will face obstacles in his 
undertakings (will have checkered career), will be highly intelligent, be skilful and will 
destroy his enemies. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be highly bashful, will have sons and 
wife, will control his senses and will have a physique devoid of ‘evils’ (This will mean, that 
the native does not commit evils, or sin). 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 7 Bhava: will be full of fortunes, be honoured, be 
akin to a king, will confer auspiciousness and be truthful. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 7" B hava: will have many wives, will hold the flag of 
virtue aloft, be truthful, happy, merciful and will destroy others. 


39 


852 


853 


854 


855 


856 


857 


858 


859 


860 


861 


862 


863 


864 


865 


866 


867 


868 


869 


870 


871 


872 


873 


874 


M ai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be interested in achieving distinction, 
will have beautiful body, will be very wealth and fortunate, be good looking, be chief 
among his me and be modest. 

M al gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7" B hava: will be highly valorous, famous, strong will 
have auspicious limbs and be free from pains. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will acquire a skilful wife, be free from 
enemies and be just. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 7™ Bhava: will be a eunuch, be ugly, be evil- 
minded and harsh. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 7” Bhava: will be dull-witted, troubled by 
phlegmatic disorders, be unintelligible, be loathsome and will have a bad wife. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will have bad daughters and bad 
sons, will have a emaciated body, will maintain speechlessness and will perform 
uncharitable acts. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will be unsteady about females, 
interested in sexual accounts, be timid in nature and will have many blemishes. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be devoid of splendour, will 
be a chief cheat, be negligent of high order and will be inimical to people. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be highly jealous, be troubled 
by high sexual feelings, will have a inimical wife and will be unintelligible. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 7™ Bhava: the native will be merciless, will lose 
his wife and children, will eat much and be harsh in speech. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be devoid of fame, will cheat 
others, will have many enemies and will guess others’ mind. 

Stirya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 7” B hava: will have evil notions, will enjoy 
conveyances, will have cardiac diseases and will be friendly to all. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 7" Bhava: will be unkind, will eat others’ food, 
be mean and will have a wicked wife. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 7” Bhava: will not be splendourous, be 
devoid of wealth, sons and gratitude and be hard-hearted. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be shameless, will not study 
V edas, will like sinful acts, will by nature join base me and be sickly. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 7” B hava: will be foolish, be fond of childish 
acts, be miserly and of bad disposition. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7™ Bhava: will be poor, will have vices, be very 
timid in disposition and will hate his relatives. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava:: will have a very wicked wife, will be 
immodest, will be at all times hunger-stricken and be devoid of intelligence. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 7" Bhava: will be very kind, be justly 
disposed, be truthful, dear to good men and will acquire a virtuous wife. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 7" Bhava: be disposed charitably, be dear to 
women and be eloquent in speech. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be patient in disposition, will 
have good conduct, be praiseworthy intelligent and will like his relatives. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7 Bhava: will show interest in shrines, be 
worshiped by kings and will be served by many. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will show interest in shrines, be 
worshiped by kings and will be served by many. 


40 


875 


876 


877 


878 


879 


880 


881 


882 


883 


884 
885 


886 


887 


888 


889 


890 


891 


892 


893 


894 


895 


896 


897 
898 


Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7" Bhava: will be devoid of enmity, be 
interested in giving charities and will be well-praised by virtuous people. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 7" B hava: will be devoid of truth and 
wealth, be troubled by diseases and will be distressed due to royal troubles. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be a servant, will suffer 
from serious diseases, will wear rags and will indulge in cheating. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 7 B hava: will be troubled by diseases, 
be indolent and will have a wicked wife and will have a troubled physique. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be miserable, be 
immodest, troubled by huger and will incur good results out of fear. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7” Bhava: will be unsuccessful, 
unfriendly, unhappy, will do fierce deeds and be miserly. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7™ B hava: will be interested inn others’ 
women, be troubled by others and will lack intelligence. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 7" Bhava: will be kingly, beautiful, 
very wealthy and be always happy. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 7 B hava: will be an emperator, 
be very famous and be very valorous, be virtuous and be liked by all. 

gt 

Surya, Candr in the 8 Bhava: will be very sickly, short-lived, friendly, happy, 
shameless and be timid in war (not bold in quarrels, disputes, uptake). 

Surya, Mai gal in the 8" Bhava: will suffer from complaints of blood, be unsteady, be 
interested in sinful acts, be devoid of friends, will lack mental vigour and wealth. 

Surya, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will have bad mentality, will grow on others’ food, live 
in foreign countries, be devoid of valour and be free from enemies. 

Surya, Guru in the &" Bhava: will be devoid of self-respect, be wicked, be interested 
in other man’s wife and be devoid of intelligence. 

Surya, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will have money, earned in bad ways, be ugly, will be 
interested in bad place, will eat the food of a bad king (will earn money through a corrupt 
employer), will have bad profession and will be conquered. 

Surya, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will have excess phlegm in temperament, be highly 
rheumatic, be devoid of truth and passion and will always like to earn from foreign places. 

Candr, Mai gal in the 8" Bhava: will have bad disposition, be troubled by diseases, 
miserable, unsuccessful and be able to guess others. 

Candr, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will have wicked mentality, be troubled by diseases, be 
like a eunuch, be fraudulent, will suffer from a serious disease and be a miser. 

Candr, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of meritorious acts, be short-lived, poor, 
foolish, crippled and will have bad company. 

Candr, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be of blame-worthy disposition, be timid, sinful and 
will blame others. 

Candr, Gani in the 8" Bhava: will be desirous of receiving the mercy of bad people, 
will have futile illusion, be happy; peaceful, and will be given up by his wife. 

M al gal, Budh in the 8" B hava: will look old in your itself, be ungrateful and will have 
harmful notions. 

M ai gal, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will have illegal money, be poor, base, will have many 
enemies, be defeated and be miser. 

M ai gal, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be desirous of doing bad acts, be untruthful, will 
lose money out of mercy, be not valorous and be a dunce. 


4l 


899 


900 


901 


902 


903 


904 


905 


906 


907 


908 


909 


910 


911 


912 


913 


914 


915 


916 


917 
918 
919 
920 


921 
922 


M ai gal, Cani in the 8"" B hava: will be ugly, be issueless, will have a very wicked wife, 
be devoid of intelligence and virtue ad will live in foreign countries. 

Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of relatives, will loss wisdom, will cheat 
and will suffer misery on account of bad company. 

Budh, Cukr in the 8” Bhava: will have a polluted physique, be unjust, will eat others’ 
food and serve others. He will have knowledge of the atom. 

Budh, Cani in the 8 Bhava: will have many aims, will be sinfully disposed, will be a 
tale-beared and be devoid of intelligence. 

Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will have many enemies, make enmity without purpose, 
have few children and will not be interested in Castras. 

Guru, Gani in the 8 Bhava: will be bereft of grains and wealth, will be very inimical, 
be troubled and be very wicked. 

Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will join others’ wives, will eat others’ food, will serve 
others, will always tell lies and be unjust. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal in the 8" Bhava: will be untruthful, be not in the company of 
rich men, be not himself rich, be fierce, devoid of good qualities, be very miserable and 
will join bad people. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 8" B hava: will be a destitute, or be mean, be of bad mental 
disposition, be not splendourous, will join very base men, mean-minded, sick and sinful. 

Surya, Candr, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be sinful, dear to wicked people, will make 
futile efforts, be interested in drinks (intoxicants) and tales, be devoid of friends and will 
acquire an excellent wife. 

Stirya, Candr, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, will do bad acts, be 
very short-tempered, immodest, interested in others’ food ad will cheat. 

Strya, Candr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be untruthful, indigent, be lazy, sleepy, 
miserable, devoid of valour and be very timid. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of friends, be poor, will have 
rags, will join rich men, will be interested in liquor and be devoid of friendliness. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be devoid of truth and fame, be vividly 
miserable, be a miser, troubled by heavy expenditure and sexual feelings. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be impure, unfriendly, very efficacious, 
timid and infamous. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will suffer from diseases, will have enemies, be 
not virtuous, be very ill-tempered and be bereft of his men. 

Surya, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be shameless, will blame the people, will be 
bereft of religion and profession, be not efficacious, be unkind and not happy. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 8" B hava: will do various kind of acts, will destroy enemies, 
be valorous, will enjoy happiness from children, will indulge vicious acts and will acquire 
abundant grains. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be miserable due to diseases, be not famous 
and be a cheat. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be endowed with money and grains, be 
happy, will be highly skillful in many kinds of speech, be kind and meritorious in acts. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be subjected to many diseases, will deviate 
from the path of religion, be not virtuous, be argumentative and be devoid of relatives. 

Surya, Cukr, Cani in the 8" B hava: will be very miserable. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 8" B hava: will inflict harm to the king. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 8” Bhava: will suffer from hunger and thirst and will be 
after sexual pleasures. 


42 


923 
924 
925 
926 
927 
928 
929 
930 
931 
932 
933 
934 
935 
936 
937 
938 
939 
940 
941 
942 
943 
944 
945 
946 
947 
948 
949 
950 


951 


952 


Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be happy and will be favourable to the 
king. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the &" B hava: will suffer from various kinds of diseases. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 8 Bhava: will be at logger heads with his wife. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be a recipient of royal favours, but will be 
bereft of money and corn. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 8" B hava: will have a number of enemies. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 8" B hava: will be very happy and will possess a good wife. 

Candr, Guru, Cani in the 8" B hava: will be after the women of other men. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 8” B hava: will lose his wife and be devoid of intelligence. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will acquire many diseases on account of 
misdeeds of his own. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 8°" Bhava: will have abundant money earned through 
thieves. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cani in the &" Bhava: will suffer from leprosy, much misery and much 
penury. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 8" B hava: will acquire diseases and poverty through many 
people. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cani in the 8” B hava: will destroy many of his enemies. 

M ai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 8°" Bhava: will on his own increase his diseases. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 8” Bhava: will obtain destruction of wealth and grains. 

Budh, Guru, Gani in the 8 Bhava: will be sickly and be skillful in imprisoning and 
killing. 

Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 8" B hava: will acquire many diseases. 

Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 8" B hava: will be highly miserable. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 8" Bhava: will suffer acute penury. 

Surya, Candr, M ai gal, Guru in the 8" B hava: will suffer great grief. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 8°" B hava: will be modest at all times, will join base 
females, will get bad sons and bad (illegal) money, will have bad qualities, will be very ill- 
tempered and very wicked. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 8°" B hava: will be devoid of children, will have bad 
qualities, will be ugly, be insulted and be unintelligible. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will not have skillful mentality, will be 
troubled by hunger, be shameless and be unsuccessful. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the &" Bhava: will be fond of gambling, be bereft of 
money, will live in foreign countries and be inimical to the society. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 8°" Bhava: will be devoid of pleasures, will be 
forsaken by preceptors, will have a stout body and be mean in disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will have no accomplishment, be unkind 
and be interested in the virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be violent, be not valorous, be bereft 
of intelligence and wealth, be always sick, timid and be subjected to difficulties. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be wicked in speech, be interested in 
great sins, will join base men and will be troubled by enemies. 

Surya, Maigal, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be miserable, will have low 
professions, will acquire a bad wife and will have affliction to limbs due to sexual 
indulgence. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 8 Bhava: will lose parents, be truthfully disposed 
and be indolent. 


43 


953 


954 


955 


956 


957 


958 


959 


960 


961 


962 


963 


964 


965 


966 
967 


968 


969 


970 


971 


972 


973 


974 


975 
976 


Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be fickleminded, treacherous, will 
have bad friends, will have no accomplishment and be devoid of wealth. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 8"" B hava: will be very timid, be troubled by sex, be 
wicked and will have money earned in bad ways. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be sick, bereft of wealth, short- 
lived and untruthful. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will befriend bad people, be interested 
in bad deeds, be devoid of good conduct and be harsh in speech. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 8°" B hava: will like to do bad deeds, will give up his 
people and be with others, be unwise, be not virtuous and will have no Castric knowledge. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be endowed with sons, be happy, 
will conquer his enemies, be wise and wealthy. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 8°" B hava: will be devoid of sons and happiness, be 
against his enemies (i.e. may not pardon his enemies), will harm his friends, be sickly and 
poor. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 8 Bhava: will have many enemies, will enjoy, will 
have gains of wealth and corns and be always intelligible. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will cohabit with many women and will 
hate many persons. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will at all times suffer from poverty, be 
devoid of wealth and conduct, but will have sons. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be sickly, indigent, be a leper and 
will join his enemies. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the &" Bhava: will suffer from many diseases and 
penury and be miserable and sensuous. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be intelligent, rich and friendly and 
will destroy enemies. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 8” B hava: will be splendourous and affluent. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 8" B hava: will be intelligent, wealthy, will have friends 
and will harm his enemies. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 8" Bhava: will be endowed with corns, 
money and happens, will have good conduct, be interested in Castras and religion and will 
worship Gods, preceptors and Brahmins. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be blind, wise, indigent and 
be always after women. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will go begging, be poor, be 
interested in the knowledge of identity of the Universe with Brahma and will be highly 
skilful. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: The native will be a minister, 
rich, famous, influential, authoritative and will inflict punishment, as justice. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be wise, bereft of happiness 
from wife and will live by begging. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be wise, bereft of happiness 
from wife and will live by begging. A dditionally, the native will possess good qualities. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will be egoistic, be happy with 
regard to wife and will be wise. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 8" B hava: 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 8" Bhava: will be very sick, intelligent, very 
poor and skilful. 


44 


977 


978 


979 


980 


981 


982 


983 


984 


985 


986 


987 
988 


989 


990 


991 


992 
993 


994 


995 


996 


997 


998 


999 


1000 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be happy in regard to wife, 
be liberal, of good conduct and poor. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 8" B hava: will suffer from bad diseases, will 
kill, be imprisoned, will suffer from penury and be poor. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will sometimes contemplate the 
Supreme Spirit, yet sometimes be detached (from that path), will sometimes grow twisted 
(matted) hair, yet sometimes will remain tonsured and will have various (such) guises and 
will perform very cruel acts. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will have many quadrupeds, be 
affluent, be highly scholarly and be skillful in the sciences of Sex and Y oga. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 8" Bhava: will always be wise, rich and be 
highly valorous in times of war. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 8" Bhava: will be glorious, be 
merciful and will be addressed, like a great king. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 8" Bhava: will have various kinds of 
happiness, but be bereft of wealth and will enjoy with sons. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 8 Bhava: will be endowed with 
abundant happiness, various kinds of wealth and will like playing with horses. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 8 Bhava: will be very rich, devoted to 
Brahmins and endowed with relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani: will lord over elephants and horses, 
be chief among his men, be endowed with houses and wealth and devoted to Brahmins. 

9 

Surya, Candr: will be very modest, be a great men, be famous for his valour, be dear 
to the virtuous and be justly disposed. 

Surya, Mai gal in the 9" B hava: will be self-respected, will win over his enemies, will 
show interest to be free from blemish, be splendourous and skillful in rendering justice. 

Surya, Budh: will have good intelligence, be truthful, dear to the learned and will 
have many friends. 

Surya, Guru: will subdue his enemies, be happy, will enjoy gains of corns and wealth, 
be amiable to the virtuous and dear to the king. 

Surya, Cukr: will be endowed with greatness, be intelligent, famous and friendly. 

Surya, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be endowed with wealth and intelligence, be very 
happy in married life and will win over his enemies. 

Candr, Mai gal in the 9" Bhava: will have knowledge of Castras, be very wealthy, 
skillful and will enjoy many kinds of food and drinks. 

Candr, Budh: will be happy with children, will conquer his five senses, be interested 
in religion, praiseworthy, dear to king and worshipped by relatives. 

Candr, Guru: will be not wealthy, be skillful in speech, fond of pleasures, valorous, 
grateful, interested in Castras and very intelligent. 

Candr, Cukr: will be dear to great men, will have knowledge of Castras, be friendly 
and be attached to his relatives. 

Candr, Cani in the 9" B hava: will be interested in religious vows and charitable acts, 
be dear to king, will have many sons and multiple number of wives, be rich and will have 
knowledge of Castras. 

Mai gal, Budh: will have many servants, be endowed with marital happiness, will 
acquire sons, will be an eloquent speaker and be devoid of bad qualities. 

Mai gal, Guru in the 9 Bhava: will be full of virtues, will take bath in sacred rivers, 
will respect Brahmins and Gods, be an agriculturist and be justly disposed. 


45 


1001 


1002 


1003 


1004 


1005 


1006 


1007 


1008 


1009 


1010 


1011 


1012 


1013 


1014 


1015 


1016 


1017 


1018 


1019 


1020 


1021 


1022 


1023 


M ai gal, Cukr: will honour his guests, will have beautiful body, will have very pleasing 
appearance, be chief in his race and will be principled. 

Mai gal, Cani in the 9 Bhava: will be devoid of vices, be interested in earning by 
truthful means, be courageous and will like his relatives. 

Budh, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will have steady mind, be liked by all, be merciful, will 
have faith in Vedas and other Castras, will be chiefly an agriculturist and be always 
virtuous. 

Budh, Cukr: will have servants, will have meritorious acts to his credit, be egoistic, will 
have many friends and be dear to women. 

Budh, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be very beautiful, will have abundant landed 
property, will be endowed with good qualities, be quite wealthy and be liked by the king. 

Guru, Cukr in the 9" B hava: will have wealth and fame, good sons and paraphernalia, 
be frank and fond of children. 

Guru, Cani in the 4" Bhava: will be a lord, be interested in music and religion, be 
virtuous and favourable to good deeds. 

Cukr, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be highly meritorious, highly learned, famous, skillful 
in speech and dear to people. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal in the 9" Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, interested in 
meritorious acts and Castraic account, will have purity of the body and be interested in 
good qualities. 

Surya, Candr, Budh: will consider truth, as important, be beautiful, will have broad 
eyes, be a lord, will be endowed with a pleasing body and will be attached to his sons. 

Surya, Candr, Guru: will be expert in principles of religion, will be endowed with 
wealth of learning, will be detached from sinful dealings, be very truthful and be bereft of 
sexual desires. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr: will be interested in speaking harshly, will not visit shrines, be of 
thievish disposition and be miserable. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be interested in religious tales, be favourable 
to preceptors, be principled, be dear to the virtuous and will trust Castras. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 9°" Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts, be 
cruel, untruthful, ill-disposed, interested in eating others’ food and will serve others. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the $" Bhava: will be banished from the religion, will not 
have good history, will have a bad wife and will be detached from his relatives. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be devoid of religion and virtues, be vividly 
honoured, be devoid of good background and wisdom. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be devoid of son, will lose the vigour of 
youth, be sinful, will wear rags, be highly spend-thrift and will do irreligious acts. 

Surya, Budh, Guru: will be endowed with riches, will have many friends, will honour 
Brahmins, have good disposition and be just. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will talk much, be truthful, interested in virtues, 
grateful, will conquer his Five senses and be free from sinful desires. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be an agriculturist, be at all times charitably 
disposed, will possess good splendour, be strong, broad-eyed and justly disposed. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will possess prime virtues, will acquire grains and 
wealth, be great and beautiful. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will like (living in) foreign countries, be miserable 
and devoid of sexual feelings. 

Surya, Cukr, Cani in the g" Bhava: will be an indifferent citizen, be immodest, be 
sinful by nature and will have an ugly physical set up. 


46 


1024 


1025 


1026 


1027 


1028 


1029 


1030 


1031 


1032 


1033 


1034 


1035 


1036 


1037 


1038 


1039 


1040 


1041 


1042 


1043 


1044 


1045 


1046 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 9" Bhava: will be truthful, famous and wealthy, will be 
splendourous, be and astrologer, be very efficacious and great (or respectable). 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 9°" Bhava: will enjoy happiness from sons, be affectionate 
to friends, will possess good intelligence, conquer his five senses and will be attached to his 
relatives. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be happy with sons, be pure, kind worth 
respect even from a king and will join classic people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will like food people, be very bashful, devoid of 
sexual feelings, will possess principally good qualities and will be destroyed by the king. 

Candr, Budh, Guru: will be skillful, will like famous people, be merciful, will visit 
shrines and will be alert in his duty. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr: will be good-looking, fierce, widely famous and attached to 
Brahmins at all times. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 9"" Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, will conquer enemies, 
be highly virtuous and be famous. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr: will be famous, will possess a virtuous wife, be principally just and 
be devoid of (mundane) desires. 

Candr, Guru, Cani: will be a scholar of high order, be bereft of anger, be splendourous 
and be notably self-respected. 

Mal gal, Budh, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will consider wealth, as a chief possession, be 
helpful to preceptors (or elders), be endowed with justice and virtues, will possess 
abundant Castraic knowledge and be devoid of relatives. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be intelligent, be endowed with knowledge 
of various Castras, be wealthy, happy, patient and devoid of sexual feelings. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the $" Bhava: will be merciful, interested in visiting shrines, 
will be endowed with abundant food and drinks, will enjoy good people and be always 
intelligent. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be very efficacious, egoistic, interested in 
Castras and be charitable. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the %" Bhava: will be free from sickness, be very wealthy, 
virtuous, kind and fearless. 

M ai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 9" B hava: will have abundant money, elephants and horses, 
will conquer his five senses and be valorous. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be a king, be honoured by enemies and will 
have elephants, horses and conveyances. 

Budh, Guru, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will spend on bad missions, be sickly, ungrateful, 
forsaken by his people and will like to be valorous. 

Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 9" Bhava: will be fond of quarrels, merciful, will have many 
sons, be truthful and famous. 

Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 9" Bhava: will be good looking, liberally disposed, modest, 
famous and be fond of his sons. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 9° Bhava: will adopt (religions) vows, be 
interested in religion, be famous, devoted to Fire God and to his own relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will be free from diseases, will possess 
abundant wealth, be virtuous, be not valorous and be attached to others’ wives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 9*" Bhava: will not be splendourous, will not follow 
vedic duties, be devoid of shame and will guess about others. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be devoid of intelligence, be a 
dunce, be devoid of children and be highly short-tempered. 


47 


1047 


1048 


1049 


1050 


1051 


1052 


1053 


1054 


1055 


1056 


1057 


1058 


1059 


1060 


1061 


1062 


1063 


1064 


1065 


1066 


1067 


1068 


Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr: will be highly valorous, be famous, will store wealth and be 
dear to people. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be fond of songs, be not interested in 
sinful matters, will perform famous deeds and be free from (mundane) desires. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be endowed with high grade of 
Castraic knowledge, be interested in visiting shrines, will be charitable, very wealthy and 
justly disposed. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the 9" B hava: will be rich with various kinds of wealth, be 
found of charitability, be dutiful and be dear to people. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr, Gani in the 9" Bhava: will be liked by good people, be very justly 
disposed, will have many children and be highly respectable. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will destroy enemies, will be a lord and 
will possess conveyances, clothes and ornaments. 

Stirya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 9"" B hava: will not possess horses (i.e. conveyances), 
be wicked, be entirely devoid of mercy and will not be favourable to Brahmins. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 9°" B hava: will be very gracious of temperament, will 
be an eloquent messenger (be a good ambassador) and will have many good conveyances 
and sons. 

Surya, Mal gal, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will like good qualities (will himself 
possess good qualities), be fond of good deeds, will have a modest wife and will be very 
friendly disposed. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the $" Bhava: will have steady mind, be free from 
enemies, grateful, enthusiastic and will be endowed with mental vigour. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be fond of money, will like sinful 
dealings, will be highly greedy and will be sexually distressed. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be patient, truthful, merciful, be strong 
in speech and be fearless. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the $" Bhava: will be fickle-minded, be fond of others’ 
wives, be bereft of kindness and be blamed by relatives. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be unsteady, or excessively passionate, 
be skillful in conversations relating to sex, very miserable and dull. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the $" Bhava: will perform auspicious acts, be liberal in 
speech, will receive royal orders and be fierce in speech. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 9" Bhava: will like guests, be with wise people, be 
chief among his men and be justly disposed. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be truthful, be interested in such 
people, skillful in relation and be patient. 

Candr, Maigal, Budh, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will possess beautiful hands and 
appearance, be chief among his men, will have much of Castraic acquaintance and be dear 
to king. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will have many children, be skillful in 
royal duties, be fond of visiting shrines and be and expert in Castras. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be fond of good qualities, be 
honoured by kings, will conquer his five senses and be self-respected. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be famous, charitable, skillful highly 
learned and be rich by royal honours. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be an emperor, be devoid of enemies 
and be endowed with elephants, horses and treasures of various kinds. 


48 


1069 


1070 


1071 


1072 


1073 


1074 


1075 


1076 


1077 


1078 


1079 


1080 


1081 


1082 


1083 


1084 


1085 


1086 


1087 


1088 


1089 


1090 


Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the #" Bhava: will be endowed with liberal acts, be fond 
of good deeds, skillful and be always inclined to uphold religion. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the $" Bhava: will be affable, will befriend good people, 
be cunning and skilful. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9" B hava: will be interested in worshipping G ods and 
Brahmins, will have famous notions and will control his five senses. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be highly bashful, be truthful, 
merciful and virtuous. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will have sons, wealth and pleasures of 
many kinds, will possess a beautiful physique and be acceptable to people. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 9°" Bhava: will be fond of success, will be endowed 
with good history and be successful. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9" B hava: will perform sacrifices, be lordly disposed, 
be charitable and be sinless. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the $" Bhava: will be expert in profane knowledge and 
V edas. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 4" Bhava: will be firmly courageous, be 
devoid of wisdom, be fierce and be bereft of Castraic knowledge. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be endowed with various 
kinds of wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises, will be in the company of good people 
and be endowed with money and relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 9” Bhava: will achieve education to its end, 
will have fame well-spread, be endowed with a pleasing physique and be expert in the 
branch of justice. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 9° Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins, be 
attached to religion, be of good disposition, be very wealthy and be fearless. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the %" Bhava: will be liberal in disposition, be 
affectionate, be a great man and will be firm in friendship. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Gani in the 9" Bhava: will have religious faith, be 
charitable, be delighted, or gracious, will have ethical jobs and be devoid of desires. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr: will be firmly valorous, be devoid of intelligence, be 
fierce in disposition, be bereft of V edic knowledge and be immodest. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 9%" Bhava: will respect his mother and father, 
will be endowed with pleasing appearance, be very wealthy and be amiable to Brahmins. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 9" B hava: will be interested in religious vows, 
be chief among his men, will possess a body without any disease and be amiable to people. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9" B hava: will acquire many kinds of wealth, be 
fond of his wife (or women), will hold the flag of Virtue aloft and be famous. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will enjoy immense wealth, be 
greatly intelligent, will have many friends and will defeat his enemies. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be grateful, enthusiastic, fond 
of charity, intelligent and beautiful. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9" B hava: will be interested in the acquisition 
of knowledge, be charitably disposed, virtuous, pure and be devoid of residence (or 
dependents). 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9 Bhava: will be shameless, be of bad 
disposition, be troubled by disease and will fear war (or quarrels, i.e. will be timidly 
disposed). 


49 


1091 


1092 


1093 


1094 


1095 


1096 


1097 


1098 


1099 


1100 


1101 


1102 


1103 


1104 
1105 


1106 


1107 


1108 


1109 


1110 


1111 


112 


1113 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 9° Bhava: will have good intelligence, will 
conquer enemies, be merciful and be fond of Brahmins. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be bereft of diseases, be 
interested in undertaking acts related to God, be fond of good men and will be liked by 
the king. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be timidly disposed, be 
endowed with sons and wife, be dutiful to his family and will always speak truth. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9"" B hava: will be endowed with great wisdom 
and learning, helpful to elders and will respect Gods and Brahmins. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9%” Bhava: will be bereft of cunning tendency, 
will possess good intelligence, be charitable and be not sinful. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 9" B hava: will be honoured by king, be fond of 
women and be devoid of fear and misery. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 9" Bhava: will be sinful, interested in 
sinful tales (conversation), will be in the company of bad people and be censured by 
people. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be predominantly 
jealous, be devoid of fame and virtues and be not wise. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will be endowed with lovely 
pleasures, be devoid of great strength, be a dejected citizen and be of hard disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9'" B hava: will be fraudulent, timid, ugly, 
devoid of good qualities and be highly proud. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9" Bhava: will cause extinction (like a 
butcher), will eat voraciously, be sinfully disposed and be cruel. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 9" B hava: will be the lord of the earth, 
will be endowed with treasury (i.e. will have abundant wealth), be fearless, will be will 
bestowed (in all respects). 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani: will enjoy great happiness, be free 
from diseases and be intelligent. 

10% 

Surya, Candr: will not be skillful, be wicked by nature, be of bad disposition, be not 
charitable and be fond of women. 

Surya, M ai gal: will be very much devastated, be successful, be liked by king and fond 
of relatives. 

Surya, Budh: will be very intelligent, be famous, be free from desires, be fond of 
others, truthful and grateful. 

Surya, Guru: will help people, will have abundant wealth and conveyances and will 
speak affectionately and sweetly. 

Surya, Cukr: will be self-respected, beautiful, virtuous, fearless and be well-versed in 
religious commandments. 

Surya, Cani: will be devoid of wealth, be eminent, will have broad eyes, lovely arms 
and face, long hair and be very intelligent. 

Candr, Mai gal: will be honoured by king, will conquer enemies, will have many 
assignments and will earn money through interest (i.e. by lending). 

Candr, Budh: will be favourable to Brahmins, will be ever diligent, be interested in 
meritorious acts, be widely famous and be bold in his deeds. 

Candr, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be courageous, endowed with strength, wise, will 
have income through fair means, be happy, chief and devoid of foul thinking. 


50 


1114 


1115 


1116 


1117 


1118 


1119 


1120 


1121 


1122 


L123 


1124 


1125 


1126 


1127 


1128 


1129 


1130 


1131 


1132 


1133 


Candr, Cukr in the 10" B hava: will acquire wealth and intelligence, be an agriculturist, 
will derive happiness through the king and be worshiped by him and be of exalted rank. 

Candr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be very modest, will have many friends, be 
famously valorous, favourable to Brahmins and be firmly virile. 

M ai gal, Budh in the 10" Bhava: will be bold, intelligent, will be endowed with good 
disposition, wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises, truthful, be fond of music and be 
religious. 

M ai gal, Guru in the 10” B hava: will be endowed with abundant attendance (will have 
many servants), will possess god history, be interested in Vedas and others Castras, be 
within the sphere of religion and will cause satisfaction to others. 

M ai gal, Cukr: will be endowed with various kinds of eatables and drinks, will live in 
great shrines, be delighted, merciful and very modest. 

Mai gal, Cani: will have knowledge of Vedas, be endowed with virtues, be not 
cunning, will have quadrupeds and sons, be always plentiful and will possess very pleasing 
appearance. 

Budh, Guru in the 10™ Bhava: will be very miserable, will be famous, truthful, kind, 
pure in nature and be endowed with wealth and grains. 

Budh, Cukr in the 10‘" B hava: will be fortunate, lovely, be fond of guests, interested in 
religious conversations, will have pleasing appearance and be firmly friendly. 

Budh, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in calculation i.e. will be an expert 
mathematician, will have famous job, be highly intelligent and be always attached to Gods 
and Brahmins. 

Guru, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins (wise men), be highly 
intelligent, be truthful and will visit shrines. 

Guru, Gani in the 10 Bhava: will be chief among Vedic scholars, be principled, be 
highly valorous and be dear to people. 

Cukr, Gani in the 10" B hava: will be highly intelligent, be pure by nature, be endowed 
with sovereignty, be a great personage and be interested in the virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal in the 10" B hava: will be devoid of truth and vigour, be fond of 
battle, be dear to king, be modest in speech and be fond of doing good people’s jobs. 

Surya, Candr, Budh: will be bereft of sins, be fond of wisdom (be intelligent), be 
sovereignly, will possess a charming physique and will be highly honoured. 

Surya, Candr, Guru in the 10" B hava: will be chief among the intelligentsia, will have 
a secure (unhurt) physique, will have vast attendance upon him, be chief among his men 
and be intelligent. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr: will visit shrines, be fond of attending upon good people, will 
have knowledge of justice, be very wealthy and will skilfully act with females. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 10 B hava: will always maintain purity (i.e. be an orthodox 
person), be devoid of justice, will perform mean acts and will desire the advent of 
abundant grains. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 10°" Bhava: will be highly religious (or charitable), be very 
scholarly, will have many friends, be honoured by the public, be fond of the virtuous and 
will be very modest. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 10 Bhava: will always be charitable, will possess lovely 
speech, be not showy, be fond of good people and be very modest. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr in the 10°" Bhava: will be repository of truth and fame, will have 
plenty of money earned through sovereign honour, be fortunate and just. 


51 


1134 


1135 


1136 


1137 


1138 


1139 


1140 


1141 


1142 


1143 
1144 


1145 


1146 


1147 


1148 


1149 


1150 


1151 


1152 


1153 


1154 


1155 


Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 10‘ Bhava: will be akin to the Celestial Tree (i.e. capable 
of giving anything asked for), pleasing in appearance, be splendourous, be learned in 
Castras, be chief in the midst of his men and be always happy. 

Surya, Budh, Guru: will be devoid of moral duty, be devoid of anger, be fond of those, 
who observe religious vows and be fond of sacrifices and R eligion. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be patient, charming, be fond of learned 
circle, be very just, highly learned and be amiable to Brahmins. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be highly knowledgeable, patient, truthful, 
kingly, very wealthy and be skillful in many acts. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 10°" Bhava: will be very religious, will promote the growth of 
his descent, be liked by good people and be pleasing in appearance. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be endowed with commendable speech, be 
very modest, be very rich and will honour Gods and preceptors. 

Stirya, Cukr, Cani in the 10° Bhava: will be famous, grateful, be endowed with 
learning, wisdom, V edas and Castras, be devoid of desires, be enthusiastic and cautious. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 10" Bhava: will be devoid of moral duties, be inimical, 
enthusiastic, be liberal and amiable to people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will consider truth, as wealth, be pleasing in 
appearance, be honoured by the king, modest, eminent, will be endowed with good drinks, 
wife and sons and be fond of learning. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be interested in shrines and tales, be 
fortunate, will defeat enemies and worship Gods and Brahmins. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 10‘ Bhava: will be splendourous, skillful in conversation, 
be highly bashful, honoured by kings and be skillful in helping others. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be worshiped by the king, be firm in 
disposition, will be endowed with exalted position (or riches), be interested in V edas and 
be conscientious of justice. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr: will be kind to living beings, be very shameful, devoid of sexual 
desires, be always enthusiastic and be splendourous. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will consider truth, as wealth, be devoid of 
desires, acceptable (to all), will possess regulated speech, be eminent, firm in disposition 
and be sickly disposed. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be very beautiful, very valorous, be 
endowed with sons and friends and will have abundant wealth earned by his vast 
intelligence. 

Candr, Guru, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be devoid of learning and modesty, will join 
the company of good men, be endowed with justice and will be honoured by the king. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 10 Bhava: will be endowed with wealth, be lordly among 
people, will enjoy honour and fame, but be ill-tempered. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in truth, be modest, be very 
meritorious in his act, be charitable, chief of his men and pleasing to look at. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 10" B hava: will be endowed with great wealth and be very 
valorous, will conquer his enemies, be patient and be fond of visiting shrines. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cani in the 10” B hava: will be famous, be endowed with wife, be very 
wise, be liked by women, be chief in his decent and will possess good qualities. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 10°" B hava: will always be eminent, be very valorous and 
be well-disposed to relatives. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will earn more money through terrorizing act, 
be famous, rich and be skilful in the branch of J ustice. 


52 


1156 


1157 


1158 


1159 


1160 


1161 


1162 


1163 


1164 


1165 


1166 


1167 
1168 


1169 


1170 


1171 


1172 


1173 


1174 


1175 


1176 


1177 


1178 


1179 


1180 


M ai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 10 B hava: will be curt, will perform rash act, will be highly 
distressed, will have abundant wealth and be important in his decent. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 10" B hava: will be a great king, be very valorous, charitable 
and truthful. 

Budh, Guru, Gani in the 10” Bhava: will be saintly, courageous, be greatly affluent, 
will know justice and be fond of his relatives. 

Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in (creating) park and well, be 
charitable and will attain fame by his vat wisdom. 

Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10” Bhava: will be pure by nature, be eminent by his 
intelligence, be honoured by the virtuous and will be free from ailment. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 10°" B hava: will be a repository of learning, be 
endowed with abundant wealth, will have unlike (on) and be forsaken by others. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 10° Bhava: will have many servant, be 
splendourous, be liked by the virtuous and king. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be endowed with horses (i.e. 
conveyances), will proper greatly, be not given to anger and be fond of God and Brahmin. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 10 B hava: will have abundant wealth and Castraic 
knowledge, be grateful, endowed with robe and ornament and will possess good qualities. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru: will be a skillful speaker, be firm in disposition, be free 
from sins and be ever exalted. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be grateful, enthusiastic and will be 
praised by the virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 10‘" B hava: make one wealthy and ungrateful. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will possess good qualities, be famous, 
charitable and be a scholar. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the 10 Bhava: will befriend many, be happy with on, be 
very kind and will be devoted to penance. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 10°" Bhava: will be splendourous, pure, be a chief 
personage, be ever diligent, honourable and noble. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 10” Bhava: will be truthful, fond of Brahmin, be 
devoid of desire, be famous, will visit shrines and will have many on. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in guest, be in the 
company of good men, be learned and friendly disposed. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will make one an army chief, a king’ 
minister, do mean act and go after mundane pleasures. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 10" Bhava: will be well-disposed, will have great 
wealth, many on, be grateful, solendourous and virtuous. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Gani in the 10" Bhava: will be a scholar, skilful in justice, be 
jealous and firmly virile. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be a devoted townsmen, be self- 
respected and be endowed with sons, wealth and conveyances. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be endowed with various kinds of 
wealth, drinks and many sons, be highly learned and skilful in his work. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will receive royal honour, will have 
knowledge of religious performance, be valorous, be a poet and will be against sins. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be very kind, be truthful, be devoted to 
Fire God and will possess a pleasing appearance. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10” B hava: will be virtuous, be always interested in his 
father’ assignment, be amiable to people and will be wealthy. 


53 


1181 


1182 


1183 


1184 


1185 


1186 


1187 


1188 


1189 


1190 


1191 


1192 


1193 


1194 


1195 


1196 


1197 


1198 


1199 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 10 Bhava: will principally earn through his 
servant, be devoid of enemies and always be fond of assembly and skilful people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 10" Bhava: will be fond of installing gardens and 
tree, be splendourous, will possess horses and be bereft of good qualities. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be charitable, be very famous and 
be helpful to relatives. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 10" Bhava: will be famous, be interested in Castraic 
conversation, be faithful to religion and be endowed with religion. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 10 Bhava: will be highly intelligent, be very 
proficient, be praiseworthy, be helpful, to people and will have good servant. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 10 Bhava: will be of pleased disposition, be dear to 
king, will possess an attractive physique and be skilful in J ustice. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 10" B hava: will possess a band of elephant and horses 
and will destroy his enemies. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 10°" B hava: will have many sons, be rich by fair mean, 
be liberal, grateful and be free from bodily diseases. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 10" B hava: will be endowed with patience, will possess 
an ugly body, truthful and will have wealth and sons. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10° Bhava: will be learned, be great poet, be highly 
religious, will perform meritorious act, be a good personage and be beautiful in 
appearance. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 10™ B hava: will have many friend, abundant wealth 
and softly robe, be fortunate and be devoid of good-will. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 10" Bhava: will be heroic, be dear to king, be skilful 
in conducting a war, will possess a big treasury i.e. be highly wealthy and be acceptable to 
people. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 10‘ Bhava: will be enthusiastic, be very just, be 
enduring, will conquer his five senses and be pleasing to look at. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10 Bhava: will be firm in disposition, be skilful in 
performance, be ever diligent, be very wealthy and be delighted. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be fond of exalted service (i.e. will 
make attempt to reach a high position of life), will be pleasing in appearance, be a great 
man and be fond of Brahmin. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 10" Bhava: will be valorous, just, will 
possess good physique, be highly shy and be free from diseases. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be truthful, kind will be 
endowed with good conduct, be a dealer in gold and be happy. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be chief in his decent, be 
principled, learned and skilful in poetry. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be an expert in art, be 


endowed with patience, interested in being honoured and be learned in justice. 


1200 


Surya, Candr, Maigal, Guru, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will perform sacrifice, be 


enthusiastic, be devoid of pain, be an agriculturist and be wealthy. 


1200 


1201 


Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 10" B hava: will be highly intelligent, will win 
over his enemies, be eminently rich and be justly disposed. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr: will be extremely patient, be devoid of sins, be 
eminently intelligent and be a winner in regard to Castras (will win anybody in the matter 
of Castras). 


54 


1202 


1203 


1204 


1205 


1206 


1207 


1208 


1209 


1210 


1211 


1212 


1213 


1214 


1215 


1216 


1217 


1218 


1219 


1220 


1221 


1222 


Suirya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be learned, modest, will reach 
an eminent status, be fond of sacrifice and conveyance. 

Stirya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be dear to people, be happy 
with living being (i.e. will possess animal etc.), be grateful, be endowed with distinguished 
speech and will possess an attractive body. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10 Bhava: will have many horses (i.e. 
conveyance), will possess a body free from sickness, be plentiful, be principally reach and 
be skilful in assignments relating to war. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 10" B hava: will be free from diseases, be dear 
to women, will have foul speech and be very beloved. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 10°" Bhava: will possess many horses, be 
valorous, learned and will have many friend. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 10™ Bhava: will have many children, be 
truthful, pure, delighted, fond of visiting shrines and follow religious vow. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be very justly disposed, will 
have vat attendance upon him, will have good history and learning, be intelligent, will not 
trouble others, will be highly patient and be fond of his wife. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 10" Bhava: will be wise, equal to the preceptor of 
God (i.e. highly learned, like J upiter, the preceptor of God), be religious, will have vat 
knowledge of Castras and will possess good qualities. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 10° Bhava: will be liked by many king, be 
principal among poet and be modest. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in having 
religious vow, be skilful in living in foreign countries, will earn wealth by fair mean and be 
bereft of vice. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be valorous justly disposed, 
virtuous, be a poet and be libidinous. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be liked by god people, be 
devoid of artificial disposition and be fond of serving the virtuous. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10 B hava: will be a principal royal officer, be 
endowed with elephant and horses, be diligent in performing yagia and be worshipped by 
relatives. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10" Bhava: will be interested in poetry, be 
skilful in various Castras, be wealthy, enthusiastic and be cautious. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 10 Bhava: will be king of king, be 
devoid of his own men, be very valorous and be splendourous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 10” Bhava: will be a synonym of 
charity, be a king, be virtuous, be very graciously disposed and be dear to people. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 10" B hava: will visit famous shrines, be 
a principal person with the king, be interested in learning and be devoid of fear. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10" B hava: will be fond of partaking in 
battle, be of an exalted rank with the king, be famous, merciful and truthful. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10" B hava: will be endowed with various 
kind of elephant and horses, be fond of guest and be widely famous. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10" B hava: it lead to vagabondness and 
high wisdom. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10 B hava: will be steady in disposition 
and will have his feet above the bejeweled head of the king (i.e. the king will prostate 
before the native, that the native is so eminent). 


55 


1223 


1224 
1225 


1226 


1227 


1228 


1229 
1230 


1231 


1232 


1233 


1234 


1235 


1236 


1237 


1238 


1239 


1240 


1241 


1242 


1243 


1244 


1245 


Surya, Candr, M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 10" B hava: will have the wealth 
of truth and fame, be a king, be charitable and famous. 

11 

Surya, Candr: will have financial gain, be always plentiful, will possess superior horses, 
will be devoted to the A Imighty and will be very friendly disposed. 

Surya, Mai gal: will be courageous, will destroy enemies, will not join the band of 
inner, be devoid of pride and be lordly disposed. 

Surya, Budh in 11": will have plenty of gain, be a skillful trader, be wealthy, will have 
knowledge of justice, be learned and be fond of all people. 

Surya, Guru: will be interested in Brahmins’ assignment, be fond of garden and well, 
will perform Y agna, be learned in many Castras and be skillful in husbandry. 

Surya, Cukr: will have many friends, be dear to king and be firmly courageous. 

Surya, Cani: will be endowed with various kinds of wealth, be high-souled, be a 
scholar, be grateful, free from miseries and delighted. 

Candr, Mai gal: will have relatives, will be intelligent, skillful, will have many friends 
and be pleasing to look at. 

Candr, Budh in the 11" B hava: will be fortunate, good looking, learned, splendourous, 
plentiful, will have many friend and be very friendly. 

Candr, Guru: will be free from diseases, be scholarly, will conquer his enemies, will 
have growth and gain of money, be a great man and be dear to king. 

Candr, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be free from diseases, be learned, will have 
excellent children, be truthful, eminent, will have attractive eyes and be fond of women. 

Candr, Cani: will be fond of praise, will have happiness of many kinds, will earn wide 
fame, be charitably disposed and will win over enemies. 

M ai gal, Budh in the 11" Bhava: will have plenty of gain, will conquer his five senses, 
be fond of Castras, be eminent, be always happy and be of agreeable disposition. 

M ai gal, Guru in the 11'" Bhava: will not be sinful, be very efficacious, be modest, be 
always diligent and will care for Brahmins. 

M al gal, Cukr: will be supreme by virtue of his religious vow and initiation, be well- 
read, enthusiastic, be of exalted rank, be patient and will worship (be loyal to) the king. 

Mai gal, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be famously efficacious, will conquer his five 
senses, be courageous, eminent and will always enjoy abundant robe and ornament. 

Budh, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with elephant and horses, be 
splendourous, be pure, be of exalted rank, be fond of visiting shrines and be skillful in all 
art. 

Budh, Cukr in the 11‘ Bhava: will be endowed with many excellent pearls, will have 
many sons, be very meritorious in his act, be of good qualities, be pure in disposition and 
be dear to all. 

Budh, Cani in the 11°" Bhava: will have an auspicious wife, will himself be auspicious, 
be attached to well-meaning person, be interested in yagna and be always favorable to 
relative. 

Guru, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be extremely intelligent, will possess a pleasing face, 
will have a wife, be famous, will enjoy physical pleasure and be happy. 

Guru, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will worship Brahmins, be very splendourous, very 
wealthy, lordly and famous. 

Cukr, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be interested in many Castras, be endowed with gold 
and precious stone, like cat’s eye, pearl and ruby, be a loyal citizen and be principled. 


56 


1246 


1247 


1248 


1249 


1250 


1251 


1252 


1253 


1254 


1255 


1256 


1257 


1258 


1259 


1260 


1261 


1262 


1263 


1264 


Stirya, Candr, Mai gal in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with hundred of gain, be 
splendourous, be justly disposed, will have beautiful eye, will perform auspicious act and 
be free from desire. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 11" Bhava: will have virtuous principle to follow, will reach 
an exalted rank, will possess attractive face and eye, will be fond of women, be fond of 
truth and be very friendly disposed. 

Surya, Candr, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be very famous, will worship God, will have 
many kinds of wealth and abundant Castraic knowledge, be highly learned, be famous and 
will be praised even by the confident. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be free from diseases, be splendourous, 
pleasing in appearance, proficient, be dear to king and will always be at the service of the 
virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will be endowed with happiness, will be good 
looking, will acquire abundant wealth, conveyance, food and clothe, will have obedient 
servant and be firmly friendly in nature. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh in the 11” Bhava: will possess great brilliance, be a skillful 
justice, will possess a surprising physique and also ornament, be free from desire, will have 
great V edic knowledge and be skillful in religious act. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will possess an 
attractive physique, be a will dispose person, be religious and long-live. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr in the 11‘ Bhava: will be very wealthy, be learned in V eda, dear 
grateful, will possess an attractive physique and be interested in Castras. 

Siirya, Mai gal, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be very intelligent very attractive, 
fortunate, religious and long-lived. 

Surya, Budh, Guru: will be gainful, will be skillful in orthodox law, will adopt virtuous 
course, be very famous, be firm in disposition, be honoured and will reach an eminent 
rank. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr in the 11 Bhava: will be free from diseases, highly learned, be 
interested in Castras, be endowed with sloe, will destroy enemies and will honour 
Brahmins. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be respected by all the king, will be initiated, 
be very interested in Castras will reach a very eminent position and will honour Brahmins. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr in the 11 Bhava: will possess brilliance, be courageous, will 
consider virtue a his wealth, will have knowledge of justice, be of firm disposition and be 
respected by the king. 

Strya, Guru, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be valorous, be very rich, will have 
knowledge of many sacred precept, be learned and be peaceful. 

Surya, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be strong, delighted, modest, kind and will 
worship God and elder. 

Candr, Mail gal, Budh in the 11™ Bhava: will possess rich conveyance, will earn by 
truthful mean, be fond of people and be devoid of fear. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 11 Bhava: will be free from sweating and diseases, be 
liberal, fortunate, will posses a pleasing body, will have conveyance and be eminent. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 11 Bhava: will be truthful and argumentative, be a 
member (or atant) of an assembly (or a meeting) will have all kind of happiness and will 
earn ornament by worship of lord Siva. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will earn wealth, be attractive, highly 
intelligent, pure and be a great man. 


57 


1265 


1266 


1267 


1268 


1269 


1270 


1271 


1272 


1273 


1274 


1275 


1276 


1277 


1278 


1279 


1280 


1281 


1282 


1283 


1284 


Candr, Budh, Guru in the 11" B hava: will be fond of joining assembly of skillful men, 
be eminent, learned, be a repository of varied art and be happy through the pleasure of 
the ruler. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr: will be endowed with complexion akin to evening twilight, will be 
worshiped by the men of the world, will possess beautiful teeth and eyes, be fortunate, will 
destroy enemies, be fond of visiting shrines and be amiable to Brahmins. 

Candr, Budh, Gani in the 11 Bhava: will be endowed with horses and elephant, will 
be a pleasing speaker, be merciful, will donate gold and be fond of sons. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 11 Bhava: will be pure, will be endowed with a delighted 
face, will tend to become famous, be well praised by the virtuous and be skillful. 

Candr, Guru, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be devoid of fear, be skillful in war 
preparation and activities related to war, fond of grape and learned in Castras. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 11'" Bhava: will have various gain, be delighted, be a 
delighting speaker and be delighting to eye. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru in the 11" B hava: will be highly libidinous, will have an attractive 
physique, attractive feet and hand, will look highly beautiful and will be endowed with a 
number of horses and elephant. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be interested in his duty, be grateful, be 
highly learned, be very just, very patient, be a commendable speaker and be worshiped by 
the king. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 11‘ Bhava: will be truthfully disposed, be good-looking, 
intelligent, justly disposed, praise worthy and will be endowed with various gain from war. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be patiently disposed, will practice 
penance, be honourable, be bereft of enemies and be endowed with knowledge of 
religious rule, learning and ornament. 

M ai gal, Guru, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be learned, liberal in speech, fortunate, will 
have an attractive body, be fond of horses and be wealthy with all kind of happiness. 

Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be beautiful, firm in disposition and 
friendship, will be endowed with good history and be free from dispute. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 11" B hava: will have attractive appearance, be endowed with 
elephant, horses and wealth, be cautious, endowed with good qualities and highly learned 
in Castras. 

Budh, Guru, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be very patient, will have many sons, will 
possess wide learning and vat number of ornament, will be bleed with meritorious act and 
be very kind. 

Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be fond of obtaining distinction, be a king, 
principal person, be highly praised and fond of visiting shrines. 

Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be splendourous, will have mellifluous voice, 
be a very important person of the whole dynasty, be virtuous and wealthy. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 11” Bhava: will be endowed with great wealth, be 
fortunate, will win over enemies, will be very liberal and will destroy others. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will have many children, will be justly 
disposed, be acquainted with the king, will defeat enemies and will be famously 
efficacious. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 11" B hava: will gain gold, pearl, ruby and robe, will 
be broad-minded and be a royal employee. 

Surya, Candr, M ai gal, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be very kind, be capable of grieving 
others, be dear to king and be highly slpendorous. 


58 


1285 


1286 


1287 


1288 


1289 


1290 


1291 


1292 


1293 


1294 


1295 


1296 


1297 


1298 


1299 


1300 


1301 


1302 


1303 


1304 


1305 


1306 


1307 


Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru: will be valorous, virtuous, very learned, worth worship and 
endowed with good qualities. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with learning by nature, 
be learned a poet, be will acquainted with V eda and be helpful to people. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be of gracious disposition, will honour 
great men (or teacher), will have great learning and will enjoy war. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be fond of Castras, will enjoy fame, be 
interested in virtue, will be dear and learned. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be highly efficacious, will exhibit 
valour, be interested in donating to others and be very intelligent. 

Surya, Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will be famous, liberal and kind, be bereft 
of diseases and will be pleased among Brahmins. 

Surya, Mal gal, Budh, Guru in the 11™ Bhava: will enjoy good conveyance, will crush 
his enemies, be efficacious and will be expert in justice. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be liberal in speech, be attached to 
good men, be fond of king and be valorous. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 11‘ B hava: will enjoy elaborate arrangement (i.e. all 
paraphernalia), will be an expert artisan and will possess abundant wealth and a number 
of conveyance. 

Surya, Mal gal, Guru, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be fond of relative, will be a 
repository of all kind of happiness, will be highly satisfied and be very modest. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 11°" Bhava: will be highly rich, be liked by women 
and be endowed with good history, learning and vedic knowledge. 

Surya, Mal gal, Cukr, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be endowed with splendour be killed 
in all art, skilful and merciful and be charitable. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 11" B hava: will be highly famous, be devoid of desire 
and will possess beautiful eye and good qualities. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be served by others, will follow 
religious observation, will possess a body free from injuries, or will be free from malice in 
thought, will hold aloft flag of charity and will not be mean (i.e. will be great) 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be firm in disposition, be free from fear 
and in, will surprise in speech and be learned in V eda. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will acquire several gain, be delighted and 
be agreeable to people. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with great learning 
and abundant riches, be arruler, will destroy his enemies and be quite charitable. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 11" B hava: Not available. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 11" B hava: will have elf restraint, will eat Brahmins’ 
food, will possess a good physique, be very patient, very charitable and will be pleasing to 
look at. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 11" B hava: will be expert in dealing with machinery, 
will honour teacher, will be intelligent, will have all kind of happiness and be plentiful. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be a ruler, will join good men, will 
enjoy plenty of food and drink and will be in the company of skillful men. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will be lord of king (i.e. be an emperor), 
will be endowed with horses, be valorous and be scholar. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 11 Bhava: will be a king with sea a boundaries of his 
kingdom, will eliminate his enemies and will perform very charitable act. 


59 


1308 


1309 


1310 


LEE 


1312 


1313 


1314 


1315 


1316 


1317 


1318 


1319 


1320 


1321 


1322 


1523 


1324 


1325 


1326 


1327 


1328 


1329 


1330 


Candr, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be splendourous, be an auspicious 
speaker (or will peak only good word), be a leader of scholar, be a lord of the earth and be 
agreeable to Brahmins. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will be good-looking, be a ruler, interested 
in visiting shrines, be a principal person and be skillful in war. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be bright in appearance, will perform 
meritorious act, will win over his enemies, will be a ruler and be well versed in Castras. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will enjoy all kind of happiness, will 
suffer from windy complaint, be distinguished, be a ruler and a scholar. 

M al gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be valorous, be a lord, will destroy 
enemies, will have an attractive face and be charitable. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cukr,Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be strong, or fat, will carry out royal 
order, be valorous, be devoid of fear and be dear to Brahmins. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with many sons, 
abundant wealth and great justice, be a ruler and be devoid of enemies. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be highly learned, be lord of the earth 
and be interested in V edic studies. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru: will be virtuous, be enthusiastic, be a king, be 
highly wealthy and a skillful warrior. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 11 Bhava: will be an excellent person, be 
learned in veda, be not artificial in disposition, be a ruler and be meritorious. 
Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be valorous, be highly bashful, be 
a king, be cautious, grateful, fierce and be bold in war. 
Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with sons, riches, 
happiness and pleasure, wise and be a king. 
Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will have many sons, will follow 
religious observation, be delighted in disposition and be highly greedy. 
Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will be a great scholar, will be 
honoured by the king, will be endowed with the wealth of elephant (i.e. will have a large 
number of conveyance) and be averse to sinful act. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr: will have many children, will be highly virtuous, be 
versed in justice, be delighted and be very friendly. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins, be dear to 
women, be very bashful and famous. 
Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be in the midst of king, be 
charitable, virtuous and be very wealthy. 
Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 11‘ Bhava: will be endowed with virtue, will please 
others, will possess beautiful eye, be interested in Wigwam and be famous. 
Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 11 Bhava: will respect parent at all time, be 
pleasing be a scholar and be patient. 
Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be chief among the men of 
his dynasty, will have even enemies honour him, be very virtuous and be very charitable. 
Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will observe religious vow and 
fasting, will be devoted to God and Brahmins, charitably disposed, be truthful and kind. 
Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be splendourous, be learned in 
many Castras, be virtuous and pure. 
Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be interested in learning, will respect 
God and Brahmins, be inimical to others and be intelligent. 


60 


1331 


1332 


1333 


1334 


1335 


1336 


1337 


1338 


1339 


1340 


1341 


1342 


1343 


1344 
1345 


1346 


1347 


1348 


1349 


1350 


1351 


1352 


1353 


1354 


Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 11" Bhava: will be kind, be endowed with 
service, or duty, will have beautiful face and be worshiped by relative. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be honoured by the ruler, be 
skillful in agricultural work, be injured, be devoid of enemies and be endowed with wealth. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be endowed with Castraic 
leaning and wealth, will destroy his enemies, be a ruler and be highly skillful in Castras. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 11 Bhava: will have abundant learning, be 
great, will have beautiful knee and be free from sickness. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be interested in poetry and tale, 
be valorous and charitable. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be faithful, be abundantly 
wealthy, be famous, will have many sons and be endowed with elaborate eating comfort. 
Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 11 Bhava: will be endowed with 
prosperity, learning and wealth, be grateful and be firmly valorous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will be interested in visiting 
shrines, be intelligent, be learned and be devoid of diseases. 

Surya, Candr, Mal gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be highly learned, be 
splendourous, will have knowledge of religious commandment, be worshiped and be 
virtuous. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Gukr, Gani in the 11" Bhava: will honour Brahmins (or the 
learned), be interested in listening to divine stories, be famous and be learned in Castras. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Gukr, Cani in the 11" B hava: will be fond of garden etc., 
devoted to God, be distinguished, be attached to the virtuous and be expert in Castras. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 11" Bhava: will be truthful, be chief in 
his race, be very wise and be skillful in singing. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani: will be head of all kings (be an emperor), be 
aieuinguisned and be not delighted, but be endowed with elephants and horses. 

12 

Surya, Candr in the 12 Bhava: will be short-lived, be charitable and ugly, will do the 
others’ job and will always join bad men. 

Surya, Mai gal in the 12" Bhava: will be distressed, will have an emaciated body, be 
troubled by others, be highly sinful, wicked and devoid of good qualities. 

Surya, Budh in the 12™ Bhava: will be devoid of sickness, will expend on bad mission, 
be cruel, miserly, dull, not virtuous and be fond of war. 

Surya, Guru in the 12™ Bhava: will have vice, be dirty sickly, ungrateful, will make 
futile effort and be devoid of religion. 

Surya, Cukr in the 12™ Bhava: will have little happiness, be ugly, be distressed due to 
the vice of his wicked wife, be fond of sin and be troubled by his libidinous disposition. 

Surya, Cani in the 12" B hava: will be inimical to the public, interested in base men and 
will be burdened by expense on bad deed. 

Candr, Mai gal in the 12" Bhava: will be hard-hearted, will have mean profession, will 
be fond of a high degree of purity, be fear stricken and be not virtuous. 

Candr, Budh in the 12" B hava: will indulge in quarrel, be indigent, distressed be very 
fear stricken and be devoid of splendour. 

Candr, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be harsh in speech, will posses an ugly body, be 
interested in living in other countries, be devoid of wealth and be not friendly. 

Candr, Gukr in the 12" Bhava: will be bereft of wealth, be burdened by expense, be a 
servant, be wicked, be unkind and be distressed due to anyone. 


61 


1355 


1356 


1357 


1358 


1359 


1360 


1361 


1362 


1363 


1364 


1365 


1366 


1367 


1368 


1369 


1370 


Ty 


1372 


1373 


1374 


1375 


Candr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will have bad wife, base sons, inferior grain and enmity, 
be homeless and be devoid of valour. 

M ai gal, Budh in the 12" Bhava: will be ugly to look at, be homeless, be troubled by 
many diseases, be not sensible and be bereft of truth and purity. 

Mai gal, Guru in the 12 Bhava: will be very infamous, be sexually distressed, be 
miserable, be burdened by expense, be at the disposal of others and be troubled by 
relatives. 

M ai gal, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will not have much wealth, be distressed due to sons, 
be not charitable, be always sick, be very mean and be ungrateful. 

Mai gal, Cani in the 12 Bhava: will be devoid of learning of Castras and religious 
commandment, be troubled by wound, boil etc., will suffer eye disease, be unlucky and be 
sexually distressed. 

Budh, Guru: will be principally an atheist (or a degraded Brahmin), be unkind, be 
endowed with sons and relatives, be defeated by woman and be disillusioned. 

Budh, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will be merciless, will have many enemies, will be of bad 
disposition, be inimical and be devoid of female and be disappointed. 

Budh, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be very cunning, be distressed due to vice, will wear 
dirty robe, be in the custody of female and be disappointed. 

Guru, Gukr in the 12" Bhava: will be bereft of quadruped and servants, will suffer 
from a number of diseases, will lose his wealth, will be hard-hearted and be defeated by 
enemies. 

Guru, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be hard-hearted, be defeated by women, be in the 
company of people, be timid, sinful and be blameworthy. 

Cukr, Cani in the 12° Bhava: will cheat others, be devoid of history, be sick, will 
wander aimlessly and be without friend. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal in the 12" Bhava: will be a skillful inner, be fond of gambling, 
be ungrateful, be always diseased and will blame Brahmins. 

Surya, Candr, Budh in the 12 B hava: will be poor, sick, illiterate, will be subjected to 
many trouble, be wicked, miserly, very greedy, libidinous and will wear dirty clothe. 

Surya, Candr, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be interested in bad society, be ugly, devoid 
of religion, will blame others and be bereft of virtue, intelligence and Castraic learning. 

Surya, Candr, Gukr in the 12°" Bhava: will have weak neck due to sufferance from 
hunger, will lose bodily vigour, will be unabashed, be ugly, distressed and unfriendly. 

Surya, Candr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will suffer from tuberculosis, be distressed due to 
phlegmatic disease, be not splendourous, be reduced to great trouble and will suffer in the 
hand of enemies. 

Surya, Mani gal, Budh in the 12" Bhava: will suffer from tuberculosis, be a dunce, be 
villainous, be devoid of Castraic learning, be interested in tale bearer and will incur royal 
displeasure. 

Surya, Mal gal, Guru in the 12™ Bhava: will lose his wealth, will have a number of evil 
friends, be dull-witted, be devoid of fame, will have ill-gotten money and acquire a bad 
wife. 

Surya, Mai gal, Gukr in the 12™ Bhava: will be sexually distressed, be very base, be 
devoid of good history, be very distressed sick and be fond of quarrel. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be distressed due to heavy expenditure, be 
interested in bad act, be a dunce, be free from fear of imprisonment and will be averse to 
Castras. 

Surya, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be libidinous, blame worthy, be very short 
tempered, be meritorious ugly, unlucky and will not be praised in the society. 


62 


1376 


1377 


1378 


1379 


1380 


1381 


1382 


1383 


1384 


1385 


1386 


1387 


1388 


1389 


1390 


1391 


1392 


1393 


1394 


1395 


1396 


1397 


1398 


Stirya, Budh, Gukr in the 12" Bhava: will be cunning, hard hearted, be devoid of 
distinction, be interested in tale bearer, will have an ugly appearance and will be devoid of 
desire and enthusiasm. 

Surya, Budh, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will not be in the company of good men, be not 
wealthy, be a dunce and wicked, be interested in others wives, will expend on bad mission 
and will incur royal wrath. 

Surya, Guru, Gukr in the 12" Bhava: will not be wealthy, be a servant, be bad in 
disposition, be wicked and distressed out of fear. 

Surya, Guru, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be impetuous, will eat others’ food, be very 
mean and be devoid of wisdom, learning and education. 

Surya, Cukr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will be timid, valorous, devoid of justice, devoid of 
virtue and be fear stricken. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 12™ Bhava: will be devoid of wealth and wisdom, be ill 
tempered, unjust, will have many enemies and will be a warrior. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be libidinous, blame worthy, be devoid of 
sons, be interested in others’ job, be wicked and fear-filled. 

Candr, Mai gal, Gukr in the 12" Bhava: will be base, fond of gambling merciless, 
splendourous, miserly and be troubled by enemies. 

Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 12‘" Bhava: will have a bad (diseased) body, be devoid of 
his relatives, be defeated by female and be wicked in disposition. 

Candr, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of kindness and be highly 
afflicted. 

Candr, Budh, Gukr in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of sexual desire, be impetuous, 
indecisive, or uncertain, be interested in sinful men and be bereft of parent. 

Candr, Budh, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be distressed due to vice, be greedy, base, 
unfaithful and will cheat others. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 12" B hava: will be unwealthy, homeless, unwise, fond of war 
and be dishonoured. 

Candr, Guru, Gani in the 12" B hava: will be wicked, highly sinful and will have many 
vice. 

Candr, Cukr, Cani in the 12™ Bhava: will be base, will join base men, will be defeated 
by base men, be himself very base and be devoid of pleasure and virtue. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru in the 12™ B hava: will be highly distressed by abundant fear and 
peaceless, be very proud, be interested in good stories and will honour religious oblation, 
Brahmins and God. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 12 Bhava: will be illiterate, unfortunate, very pious, 
merciful and be devoid of affection. 

M ai gal, Budh, Cani in the 12" B hava: will be devoid of learning, pleasure and wealth, 
be hard hearted and will have bad sons. 

Mai gal, Guru, Gukr in the 12 Bhava: will be wicked, will wander fruitlessly, will 
indulge in irreligious act, be splendourous and just. 

Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 12 Bhava: will be interested in telling, be wounded, 
ungrateful, devoid of Castraic knowledge and be not valorous. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, wife, visits to shrines, 
sons and fame, will also be distressed by fear. 

Budh, Guru, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will not be wise, be very cunning, be delighted and 
fierce in act. 

Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 12" B hava: will be highly miserable, will befriend wicked men 
and be wise and intelligent. 


63 


1399 


1400 


1401 


1402 


1403 


1404 


1405 


1406 


1407 


1408 


1409 


1410 


1411 


1412 


1413 


1414 


1415 


1416 


1417 


1418 


1419 


1420 


1421 


1422 


Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12'" Bhava: will kill Brahmins, be not splendourous, will wear 
rag, depend on others and be devoid of relatives. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh in the 12" B hava: will be subjected to much trouble, will 
be distressed due to sinful tendencies and will not beget desired food. 

Surya, Candr, Maigal, Guru in the 12 Bhava: will be ungrateful, be not 
splendourous, be ugly, will fear much and will have many enemies. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will be troubled by others, will have 
wife and sons, be highly respected and be highly sinful. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cani in the 12° Bhava: will not be intelligent, be highly 
‘distinguished’ for his vice, be devoid of obstruction and will not be splendourous. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will not be bright, will be very distressed 
due to his disease, be very timid and will be devoid of fame. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Gukr in the 12" Bhava: will not have splendour, be bereft of 
wisdom and truth, be fierce and averse to sinful act. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Gani in the 12” Bhava: will suffer from serious disease, be 
ungrateful, will join mean men and be mean- minded. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr in the 12™ Bhava: will be highly ill tempered, will not have 
intelligence and money, be not bashful and will be interested in war. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be timid, will suffer from disease of 
the rectum, will have burning sensation (or will be thirsty) and be not splendourous. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 12" B hava: will not be learned in Castras, will have 
many vice, will not follow good path and will suffer from many disease. 

Stirya, Mai gal, Budh, Gukr in the 12 Bhava: will be interested in base men, will be 
highly afflicted, will eat bad food, take bad drink and be very ill tempered. 

Strya, Mai gal, Budh, Gani in the 12" Bhava: will suffer from phlegmatic and windy 
disease, will not be virtuous and will be able to guess others’ mind. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Gikr in the 12" Bhava: will expend on bad mission, will be 
highly ill tempered, will have less Castraic learning and be mean-minded. 

Surya, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will be troubled by base men, will himself 
be very mean, be distressed and will have miserable sons. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will not be kind, will have a wicked wife, 
be mean minded and will be bereft of wealth. 

Surya, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will have an injured physique, will posses a 
prominent wife, will be free from fear of imprisonment, will face destruction of wealth. 

Surya, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will not be faithful, will accuse Brahmins, 
be a miser, will have an emaciated physique and be dull-witted. 

Surya, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will suffer on account of his own kindness, 
will not have preceptor and will not have a job to do. (i.e. will be devoid of livelihood). 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will not be patient, will be very ill 
tempered, will lose truthful disposition and will be devoid of wife. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 12" B hava: will be a miser, will suffer from sickness, 
be devoid of desire and will be troubled by king and thieve. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Gani in the 12" Bhava: will suffer from bilious complaint, will 
be devoid of preceptor and will be miserable on account of female company. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Gukr in the 12 Bhava: will be very fierce in disposition, will 
invite risk, will indulge in inimical activities, will be expelled out of his caste and will be 
blamed by the society. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Gani in the 12" Bhava: will be very afflicted, will be interested 
in others’ wives, will expend on bad thing and will suffer from disease. 


64 


1423 


1424 


1425 


1426 


1427 


1428 


1429 


1430 


1431 


1432 


1433 


1434 


1435 


1436 


1437 


1438 


1439 


1440 


1441 


1442 


1443 


1444 


1445 


Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be bereft of sons, will resemble ‘fire’ 
in appearance, will be interested in sinful tale, will be defeated by female and servant. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will be a bad mater, be not pure, will be 
devoid of wealth, be unkind, be fond of intoxicant drink and will have bad disposition. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be mean, irascible, uncharitable, 
defeated by women be unkind and will not demonstrate, or prove himself. 

Candr, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be impetuous, wicked, will have an 
injured body, will have burning sensation and will be blamed by people. 

Candr, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will be devoid of wisdom, be not virtuous, 
be troubled by others and be a miser. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Gkr in the 12” Bhava: will not be bright, be deformed (or 
distressed), be ugly, be blameworthy and be bereft of friendship. 

M ai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 12"" B hava: will be sinful, defeated, be troubled by 
women, will have little education, be dejected and fear stricken. 

Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 12 Bhava: will be mean, will join bad people, will 
adopt others’ religion, will spend on bad thing and be amiable to Brahmins. 

Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12” B hava: will be homeless, unfriendly, will suffer from 
lever disorder and will incur royal displeasure. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru in the 12" Bhava: will wear rag, be devoid of 
affection, will have enemies, be greedy, will perform his duties and be delighted. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will indulge in bad act, will be 
friend bad people, be blameworthy, be always sick and be troubled by relatives. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will be interested in Molims, be 
attached to others’ women and will serve bad society. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of fame, be against 
society, will have blame worthy religion and blameworthy business. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cani in the 12 Bhava: will be very miserable, be 
subjected to trouble out of disease, will always be sick, be timid and will have little wealth. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Cukr, Cani in the 12 Bhava: will be devoid of fame, be 
interested in drink, be cunning in disposition, be hard-hearted, fierce and inimical. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 12 Bhava: will be quite miserable, be 
interested in wicked people’ company, be highly phlegmatic, be dull-witted and 
blameworthy. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 12™ Bhava: will be inimical to his castemen, will 
be devoid of good qualities and be artificial in disposition. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Cukr, Gani in the 12‘. Bhava: will be a principal cheat, be very 
cruel and will be won over by mean people. 

Surya, Candr, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 12” Bhava: will be very rich, be sensuous, 
blameworthy, fierce and timid. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 12” Bhava: will be bereft of mercy, will lose 
his wife and children, will eat veraciously and will be harsh in speech. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 12" B hava: will be devoid of wealth, wife and 
vice be harsh, inimical and bad in disposition. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will not be wealthy, be fierce, be 
fond of quarrel, be ugly and will cheat others. 

Surya, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will suffer from various kind of 
disease, will be interested in befriending bad people, will be very libidinous and be timid. 


65 


1446 


1447 


1448 


1449 


1450 


1451 


1452 


1453 


1454 


1455 


1456 


1457 


1458 


1459 


1460 


Stirya, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will be dull witted, will have a bad 
body, will have fearful eye, be inimical to Brahmins, be defeated by enemies and be 
impetuous. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 12 B hava: will be fond of telling, be against, 
greatness, be devoid of his own men and will have wounded body. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cani in the 12° B hava: will become trayed, be against 
friendly principle, be not kind and be irascible. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will betray, be illiterate, be devoid 
of wife and sons and will be inimical to the king. 

Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12°" B hava: will be interested in mean women, 
be interested in undesirable friendship, religion and learning and be very sinful. 

Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 12" B hava: will always be troubled by injuries, 
will be possessing bad thinking, be homeless, be not splendourous and be ugly. 

Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gani in the 12" B hava: will be devoid of wealth, be fierce, 
be fond of quarrel and will have lo of wisdom and wealth. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr in the 12" Bhava: will be devoid of 
brightness, be interested in joining others’ ideas, will obstruct Brahmins and will cheat 
others. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Gani in the 12" Bhava: will be ungrateful, will 
have many enemies, be not bashful and will be in a position to guess others’ mind. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Cukr, Gni in the 12" Bhava: will be quite sickly, be 
bereft of money and sons, be unkind, miser and will have a beautiful wife. 

Stirya, Candr, Mai gal, Guru, Cukr, @ni in the 12" Bhava: will have short life, be 
devoid of fame and money, will make futile effort and be ill tempered. 

Surya, Candr, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12" Bhava: will always be indolent, will 
be devoid of wisdom and wealth and will have wicked wife and wicked sons. 

Surya, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12" B hava: will have no place to resort, 
will derive mean pleasure, will suffer from penury, be untruthful and not virtuous. 

Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Gni in the 12" Bhava: will hate Brahmins, be 
bereft of fame and happiness, be not splendourous and will suffer from many diseases. 

Surya, Candr, Mai gal, Budh, Guru, Cukr, Cani in the 12°" Bhava: will indulge in 
inimical activities, will not be self-respected, will always suffer from penury and will be 
devoid of wealth and grain. 


66 


