GARGA HORA BY SAGE GARGACARYA 


15T 


1. Jupiter in his own house along with Saturn and Mercury will bestow long life. Such native 
often will beget wealth. 

2. Should Venus be in Pisces along with Jupiter and the Moon, the native will acquire kingly 
fortunes and will have many sons and family. 

3. Should the Ascendant be in a malefic Sign, while the Lord thereof occupies the 7th house 
and Jupiter is posited in the 8th along with the Sun, the child will die at the age of eight. 

4. lf Mercury and Mars be together in the Ascendant, or 6th, or 8th, the native will either be a 
thief, or will indulge in awful acts. Such a person will have defect in his hands and legs. 

5. Mercury in the Ascendant, or 6th, or 8th can cause death at the age of 4. Even if the native is 
dipped in nectar, it will be of no avail. 

6. Mars and Jupiter in exchange in Sign will inflict death at the age of 12. Even though Lord 
Siva may desire to save the person, it is rare to escape death in such a case. 

7. Should Jupiter occupy a house of Mars identical with 2nd, 6th, or 8th from Lagna, this child 
doubtlessly will face death in its sixth year. 

8. If Rahu occupies the Ascendant at birth, while the Moon is in the 6th/9th, the child will die 
within 20 days of birth. Similar effects will prevail, if Rahu is in the 4th from Lagna, while 

the Moon occupies one of the angles. 

9. Death will be inflicted by Rahu in the 7th from Lagna, while the Moon is in the Ascendant. 
Even nectar will not be useful to him and the death will come to pass in the 10th year of the 
child. 

10. If the Moon is in the 12th from Lagna, while malefics are in the 6th house, the native will be 
short-lived. He will suffer from stomachial disorders. 

11. If Rahu occupies the 9th, or the 10th, the native will die at 16, though Indra, Lord of Lords, 
may try to protect him. 

12. Death will come to pass at the age of 20, if Saturn and the Sun are in exchange Sign. 

13. If Rahu is in the Ascendant, while the Moon is in the 6th (or both of them being together 


in the 6th) will promote diseases in the rectum, indigestion and deficiency of a limb. 


14. Death will be caused due to leprosy, or tuberculosis, if the Sun is in 8th, while Saturn is in 
6th. 

15. If the Sun is in the Ascendant at birth, the native will be subjected to mental worries and 
will have no place of his own. 

16. The child will die instantly, if Rahu is in the Ascendant, or in 8th and is in aspect to the 
Moon. Even Indra cannot save such child. 

17. The native will have a life-span of 100 years, if two Angles are occupied by Jupiter and 
Venus, while the Sun is in 12thand Mercury is in Lagna. 

18. There will be no Arishtas (evils), if Jupiter is in an Angle, or in a Trine, or in own 
House/exaltation House, as the Lagna. This will be so throughout the life. 

19. There will be no evils whatsoever, if one of Jupiter, Venus and Mercury is in an Angle and 
with positional strength. 

20. There is no evil whatsoever, if Saturn happens to be in the Ascendant, 3rd, or the 6th and be 
at the same time in Libra, Aquarius, or Capricorn. 

21. If the 2nd from the Ascendant is tenanted by Rahu, Mercury, Venus, Saturn and the Sun 
together, the mother will die soon. Alternatively it can be the father of the child. 

22. If the Sun is in Leo, or in Aries identical with the 6th, or the 11th and is aspected by a 
friendly planet, the evils, if any are simply counteracted. 

23. Should Rahu be in the Ascendant identical with Aries, Taurus, or Cancer and be in aspect 
to a benefic planet, no evil exists in the horoscope. 

24. RajaYoga is caused, if Saturn and the Moon are in the Lagna, while its trines are occupied 
by the Sun and Jupiter. Mars should be simultaneously in the 10th house. 

25. Should the Sun be in the 9thin Leo, the native will not have a surviving co-born. If 
however, one exists, he becomes a king. 

26. If Rahu is in Karma Sthana i.e. the 10th house, identical with own house and in the 
company of Mars, Mercury and Venus, the native will sometimes prosper and yet 
sometimes will have downfall. 

27. The subject is born in a mean descent, if malefics are in the 2nd, Rahu is in the 3raand 
Jupiter is in the Sth. 

28. If the Sun etc. (i.e. other malefics) are in the 4th, 5th and 9th, the native will lose his first 
issue, while the later ones may survive. 

29. Should malefics be in the 2nd along with Mars and Saturn, while Rahu is in the 3rd, the co-born 


will not survive. 


30. Chatra Yoga is formed, if all planets are in the Ascendant, 2nd, 7thand 12th, he will become 
a leader of his race. 

31. If the Ascendant is occupied by Venus, 12th by Mercury and the 2nd by a malefic, a 
RajaYoga is formed and the native becomes a king. 

32. If the Ascendant is occupied by Venus, 12th by Mercury and the 2nd by a malefic, a 
RajaYoga is formed and the native becomes a king. If the Sun is in the 12th, the subject 

will be subjected to penury. 

33. The relatives of the native will perish, if the 12th and the 7th are occupied by malefics, 
while the 2nd by benefics. 

34. There is a RajaYoga, if the Moon and Saturn are in the 2nd, while Jupiter occupies Aries 
and Rahu with Venus is in the 10th. 

35. Should malefics be in the 2nd, 8thand 12th, the native will lose his eyes in his 8th, or 12th 
year of age. 

36. The co-born will not survive, if Mars is in the 8th house. Similar effects prevails, if he joins 
Rahu and Saturn in the 7th house. 

37. The results concerning Karma Sthana (i.e. 10th house) will be meagerly felt, if Mars 
aspects the 10th house occupying Aries, or Scorpio, while Mercury is associated with 
malefics. 

38. The native will head many people, if Jupiter is in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo, Saturn is in 
Gemini and Mars in the 4th identical with own house. 

39. Should Saturn be in Virgo along with the Moon, while Mars is in the sign Capricorn, 
Rahu in Aquarius and, Jupiter in Leo, the native will destroy the band of his enemies. One 
born with such planetary array will not be an ordinary man. He will advance his family to 

a good state and enjoys RajaYoga. 

40. The native will indulge in notorious acts at the age of 20 (i.e. from his 20th year), if Venus 
is in Sagittarius, the Sun in Aquarius and Mars in Pisces simultaneously. 

41. Should a malefic be in the 11th house, while the 5this occupied by Venus and the Moon, 
the native’s first issue will be a female and such female’s mothers will be subjected to 
many troubles. 

42. There will be destruction of relatives, if the 4this occupied by Rahu, the 2nd by Jupiter 
and the 6th, or the 9th by Mercury. 

43. Should the 9th be occupied by Jupiter, Mercury, Venus and the Moon, the subject 


acquires success in all his undertakings and will be honoured by a king. 


44. lf both malefics and benefics occupy severally the 6th, 8th, 5th, 9thand the 12th, the native 
will be honoured by the king. But he will face many hardships in life. 

45. If the 5th, 6th, 8th and 9th are occupied by, respectively, Mars, Rahu, Venus and the Sun, 
the native will protect his own people. 

46. If the Ascendant is occupied by Saturn and the Moon, while Venus is posited in the 8th, 
the subject will be highly libidinous. Though he will be honoured by a King, he can not 
enjoy any kind of happiness. 

47. lf the Moon is in Capricorn at birth along with debilitated Jupiter, or with an inimical 
planet and aspected by Saturn, the native will be a source of evil to his own co-born. 

48. Should Rahu be in Gemini, while Mars is in Leo and Jupiter in Scorpio, the native will be 
equal to a king. 

49. lf at birth Saturn occupies Aquarius, Mars Capricorn and the Moon Aries, while the 2nd 
house is occupied by the Sun, the subject will enjoy paternal wealth, or his own wealth. 

50. If Mercury and the Sun occupy the 10th, while Rahu is in the 6th, the native will lord over 
many. 

51. If the Sun is in the 10thin Leo, or Saturn in Libra identical with the 6th, or the Moon and 
Mercury in the 9th in Gemini, a RajaYoga is formed. 

52. Jupiter in Lagna, while Venus is in the 12th holding the other planets in between indicates 
RajaYoga, this is to the advantage of the native’s family to become strong (in all respects). 
53. The native doubtlessly becomes a king, if Jupiter is in the 8th and Venus is in the 3rd. All 
others should be between them. 

54. One born in Libra Lagna with exalted Saturn, while Jupiter is in Taurus, the Moon in 
Gemini, Mars in Capricorn, Venus in Leo and Mercury in Virgo along with the Sun, will 

have RajaYoga; he will maintain justice, good deeds and auspiciousness in his life. He will 
however cause Balarishta in the 8th, or the 12th year. The native will, however, later on 
prove inauspicious for the elder brother, or sister. 

55. If Libra happens to be the 2nd house, or an angle and is occupied by a malefic, the native 
only faces sheer poverty. He will not prove a good augury for his own people. 

56. Should the Moon be in the 10th, while Venus is in the 7thand malefics in the 4th, the 
native’s dynasty ends with him and there will be no further descent in his race. 

57. The mother of the native will not survive, if Saturn is in the 2nd, Rahu in the 3rdand 
Jupiter is in Pisces. 


58. Should Mars be in the 7th, while Venus is in the 8th followed by the Sun in the 9th, the 


native will be short lived. 

59. If Jupiter is in the Ascendant, while Mars is not in the 7th and Venus is not in the 8th and 
the Sun is not in the 9th an auspicious Yoga is caused. Such a native will live a long lease of 
life, will have many co-borns, will head many people (i.e. employ many and feed them), 
will be happy, will lead himself and his co-born to a prosperous level, be free from proud 
conduct and be pleased in all aspects of life. 

60. If Saturn is in Cancer, while Rahu is in Taurus, the native will be very liberal, will enjoy 
numerous Yogas, i.e. will reach a very high state in life, will be famous, will be chief in his 
race and will marry many women. If, however, the said Saturn is lonely and aspects the 5th, 
there is only one marriage. 

61. The native will meet with his end, if Jupiter and Rahu are together in the Ascendant, or 
the 4th. The end will be in the 13th year even, if Lord Siva may try to save him. (That is, 
death in 13th year is certain). 

62. If Mars occupies the 8th, while the Sun is in fall in the 5th, or the 9th and Jupiter must be 
in accelerated motion. The native is blessed by Lakshmi, the Goddess of Wealth. 

63. Should Venus be in Pisces along with Mercury, while the Ascendant, 2nd and 3rd are, 
respectively, tenanted by the Sun, Moon and Mars, a Raja Yoga is constituted. One born 
under this kind of planetary array will respect Gods and preceptors. He will achieve such 
fame in his own native country and abroad as well, that cannot be achieved by others. 

64. It the 12th is occupied by Jupiter, while the 2nd house has Saturn, Sun, Mars and 
Mercury, the father of the native will pass away at the time of marriage of the native. 

65. If Jupiter is in the 3rd, while the planet Venus is in the 11th the native will be famous 
among his relatives and will shine, like a lamp among the men of his race. 

66. If Venus in the Ascendant is unaspected by anyone, while the Moon is in the 2nd and 
Jupiter is in the 3rd, the native cannot enjoy any paternal earnings. 

67. Should Mars and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo and Rahu is in Gemini, the 
child will lose its mother (early). 

68. Should Mars and Saturn be in Leo, while Venus is in Virgo and Rahu is in Gemini, this 
will cause poverty in childhood and happiness in the later part, if the Moon join Mars. 

69. If Lagna happens to be a malefic sign and is occupied by the said malefic Lagna Lord 
himself, while one among the 4th, 7th and the 10th being a malefic sign is occupied by its 
own malefic lord, the child will live only upto six. He will prove inauspicious to its mother. 


Additionally, there will be destruction of maternal relatives, if the 6th house is unaspected 


by Jupiter. 

70. The child, who has the Sun in Leo, a malefic in Virgo and Rahu in a malefic’s house will 
only live for six years. 

71. The longevity is only for 19 years, if the Moon is in the 8th, malefics in angles and Rahu 
in the 10th at birth. 

72. If a benefic planet is exalted in an angle, the native will acquire a large kingdom and will 
protect his family. 

73. Death of the father is imminent, if a child is born with Rahu in the Ascendant and the 
Sun in the 7th, while Mars is between Lagna and the 7th. 

74. A child, who has malefics posited in the 7th, 12th, 3rd and 8th, will always have an ailing 
physique. 

75. Should malefics be in the Lagna, 12th and 8th simultaneously, the child will be deprived 
of its mother instantly, while its father will leave this world in its 4th, or 10th year of age. 

77. Sun, Moon: will have many sons, will not be happy in regard to parents, will be 
subjected to mental worries. 

78. Sun, Mars: will be unhappy about his father, will be wicked, will always wander 

from place to place, will be meanly disposed. 

79. Sun, Mercury: will not have conveyances, will be wickedly disposed, will have ill-reputed 
history, will commit sinful acts, be forsaken by friends and relatives. 

80. Sun, Jupiter: will have little intelligence, will look ugly, will be a dunce, will be 
ungrateful, thievishly disposed and jealous. 

81. Sun, Venus: will hate scholars, will not have many children, will be cruel, angrily 
disposed, will trouble others, be fierce and dejected. 

82. Sun, Saturn: will be a simpleton, be sick, be given up by his relatives and will not possess 
good qualities. 

83. Moon, Mars: wicked, poor, talkative and not virtuous. 

84. Moon, Mercury: will have good speech, will be rich, beautiful, passionate, modest and will 
be addicted to other women. 

85. Moon, Jupiter: will be good-looking, long-lived, very famous, will have attractive eyes 
and hair on the head. 

86. Moon, Venus: will be interested in good affairs, will have very beautiful face, will be 
affluent, interested in being virtuous and dear to king. 


87. Moon, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will earn money in bad ways, will know only bad things, be 


mean-minded, be attached to others money, be won by unsocial elements. 

88. Mars, Mercury in the 1st Bhava: can easily dupe others, will be an able speaker, 
interested in living in foreign countries and will have bad notions. 

89. Mars, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be hard-hearted, will have few sons, will entertain 
others and will be interested in doing bad acts. 

90. Mars, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will have phlegmatic imbalances, will undertake futile 

jobs, will cheat others, will be ungrateful, will have a valorous son and will not achieve 
success in any of his undertaking. 

91. Mars, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts, will defy 
others, be interested in speaking harshly and be fiercely disposed. 

92. Mercury, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be beautiful in appearance, be fortunate, 
splendorous, rich and pleasing. 

93. Mercury, Venus: will be connected with royal duties, will be worth praising by kings, will be 
interested in various Shastras, be rich and truthfully disposed. 

94. Mercury, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be expert in carrying out the orders of the king, will 
possess a bad wife, be indigent and will face obstructions from the public. 

95. Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be dear to king, be inclined to earn more wealth, will 
have more knowledge in policies, be very rich and be an exponent of Shastras to a great 
proportion. 

96. Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be very wealthy, highly educated, be not cunning, will 
face many risks and be untruthful. 

97. Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be foolish, ungrateful and always attached to his men. 
98. Sun, Moon, Mars in the 1st Bhava: will be liked by his elders, be defective limbed, 

be a liar and be cruel, blameworthy and foolish. 

99. Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 1st Bhava: He will be foolish. 

100. Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: Will have all auspiciousness, be inclined to be 
virtuous, be intelligent, rich, very powerful on others and be always happy. 

101. Sun, Moon, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will have auspicious events, be famous, prestigious, 
wealthy, chief among men and be justly disposed. This position bestows an early marriage 
and an amiable wife. 

102. Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have a fearful body (i.e. be fierce in 
appearance), be short lived, sick, sinful, capable of promoting quarrels and will be 


forsaken by relatives. 


103. Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 1st Bhava: will be very industrious, will always be troubled, 
be inimically disposed to others, be ungrateful and subjected to phlegmatic and windy 
diseases. 

104. Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will always be proud, be highly egoistic, will 

possess a fleet of horses and will be keen in imparting vices to others. 

105. Sun, Mars, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be chief, justly disposed, will have good 
qualities and be dear to his relatives. 

106. Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will acquire a wife to promote monetary state, be 
short-lived, be subjected to many diseases, untruthful and foolish. 

107. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be skillful, will advance through his 
undertakings, will befriend many and be an expert in war. 

108. Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be modest, valorous, chief among Brahmins 
and be happy. 

109. Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be exposed to penury and diseases, will not have 
good qualities, be unjust and be forsaken by his own men and others as well. 

110. Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be leader of men, be fond of acquiring many 
children and will be free from enemies and such other troubles. 

111. Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have more enemies, will have to spend on bad 
missions, will like to commit sins, be defective in some limb and be weak. 

112. Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will undertake mean professions to earn money, will 
suffer poverty, will have vices, be fond of wandering and will earn his food by performing 
Homas etc. 

113. Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 1st Bhava: will own a fine house to live in, be very wealthy, 
justly disposed, be free from enemies and will earn knowledge in Shastras. 

114. Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be happy, very prestigious, be attached to 

his work, be virtuous, will have many friends and will be a great person. 

115. Moon, Mars, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be subjected to much grief, will have vices, 
will have highly placed relatives, be very intelligent and be bright in appearance. 

116. Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be ever modest, be fond of guests, be 
interested in donation-giving, be very wise and will stand to gain a lot. 

117. Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be a king, will possess attractive physique, be 
very valorous and be always happy. 


118. Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be very efficacious, attached to the virtuous, 


will have no knowledge of arts (practical, or fine, which are Saturn, Mercury in the 1st Bhava: in 
number, such, as music, dance etc.) and will be versed in justice. 

119. Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will marry a highly placed lady, will have rich food 
to eat, be very happy and will donate liberally. 

120. Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will not be so efficacious (here Hora Ratna states, 
that the native will have appealing physique), be firm, will be eloquent, inimically disposed 

to the public, will have knowledge of poison (i.e. will deal with poison) and will have 

interest in bad deeds. 

121. Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have sons and money, will maintain fasten and 
other religious observations, will have many plans in mind about things to be done, be 

bright and will have good mind. 

122. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will always be modest, will gain several ways 
from foreign countries, be famous and be favorably disposed towards his dependents. 

123. Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will have broad eyes and face, will have properly 
combed hair, be sweet in speech, truthful in disposition and will be easy to be approached. 
124. Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be unjust, regardless of law, will have bad 
wife, have few sons and will kill animals. 

125. Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be good natured, will be endowed with 

virtues, wealth and children and will be respectful towards Brahmins and Gods. 

126. Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be phlegmatic, wicked, be won by his wife, be 
troubled by hunger and be a talebearer. 

127. Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have a surprising body, be fierce, will not have 
any code of conduct, be inimical to his own men and be confused. 

128. Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will consider money, as most important, be 
beautiful, attached to women, friendly and very valorous. 

129. Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be subjected to phlegmatic diseases, fond of 
meat etc., will have hard teeth and coarse hair, be hard-hearted and will create terror 

among the people. 

130. Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have swarthy body, be windy in temperament, be 
libidinous, torturous and very argumentative. 

131. Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will stick to religious observations, with delight in the 
contemplation of Supreme Spirit, will advocate final Emancipation effectively and be 


devoid of fear of tens of millions in kind. 


132. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 1st Bhava: will be very sickly, will not be good natured, 
will be interested in sinful acts, be ungrateful and will suffer from physical 

ailments. 

133. Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in bad acts, sick, sinful 
thankless, devoid of learning, ugly and fearful. 

134. Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will wander purposelessly, will cheat 

others, be interested in blaming and be timid. 

135. Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in being just and be 
virtuous, will be ugly, forsaken by servants and will cheat others. 

136. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be very timid, be a cheat, be attached to 
relatives and hardhearted. 

137. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will like bad odour, be indigent, foolish, will 
not have friends and will be defeated by enemies. 

138. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be foolish, night blind, will be interested 
in residing in bad places and be very poor. 

139. Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be untruthful, will have few sons, will 
speak harshly, will be won over by enemies and will be subjected to grief. 

140. Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be dull-witted, have control over his 
senses, be skillful in taking things from others and be honoured for his deeds. 

141. Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be auspicious, be dejected with people, 
will be very fair in complexion, will not have much money, will be hard in disposition. 

142. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be very valorous, will have voice, 
resembling that of a crow, be unkind, will have less money and will have physical 

deficiencies out of sickness etc. 

143. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have interest in sexual affairs, be expert 
in gambling, be unkind, more phlegmatic in temperament and be not bright in appearance. 
144. Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, will have vices, 
be very miserable and unkind. 

145. Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have fearful eyes, will spend in bad 

ways, will wear rags and will be dejected with his wife, but attached to his son. 

146. Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will not be efficacious, be always insulted 

and be fickle-minded. 


147. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will have ugly eyes, be unkind and disturbed. 


148. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will do irreligious things in times of danger, 
will serve mean people, be ill-natured, shameless and will face troubles from the king. 

149. Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be given to anger, will have wicked wife, 
will always be a servant and be forsaken by his relatives. He will be inimical to all. 

150. Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will promote quarrels, be wicked, be immodest 
and will always move with sinful persons. 

151. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will possess a very dark and long body, will 
be interested in fighting, will suffer from bloody disorders and will poorly dress himself. 

152. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will not have sons and wealth, will have 
ugly ears, teeth and eyes, be a voracious eater, be ascetic and wicked. 

153. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have uneven legs, ugly hair and ugly 
teeth. 

154. Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will have un ugly physique, ugly nails and 
ugly sides, will indulge in acceptable deeds and will be a tale-bearer. 

155. Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be very famous, be helpful to others, be 
free from enemies, be attached to his sons and affectionate to his preceptors. 

156. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be endowed with sons and a fleet of 
horse, be interested in Shastras, will destroy sinners, be quite famous and be pure-hearted. 
157. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be foolish, be phlegmatic and windy, 
dear to preceptors and be not proud. 

158. Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have horrible notions, be long-bodied, 
will wear twisted hair, as an ascetic, be not virtuous, subject to skin afflictions and will 

suffer from itches. 

159. Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be a bald-headed, fearless, learned, black 
in complexion and be in auspicious. 

160. Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be very efficacious, will have good (i.e. 
beautiful, or strong) nails, be tall, patient, will have beautiful hands and be fair 

complexioned. 

161. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 1st Bhava: will be very wealthy, be interested 

in Shastras, be dear to elders and be attached to his sons. 

162. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be important by virtue of his 

good qualities, be good looking, be devoted to help the public and liberal in giving 


donations. 


163. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will beat (or kill) firmly, be unkind, 
will be strong bodied and be bereft of wisdom. 

164. Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be firm in disposition, very 
efficacious, cruel, be a poet, be famous and dejected. 

165. Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have wounded body, will eat 
voraciously, be unjustly disposed, be very splendorous and be highly given to sexual 

feelings. 

166. Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have interest in others wealth, 

will have long penis, will be full of veins, will have foul smell in the body and be cruel. 

167. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be endowed with sons, learning, 
wealth and relatives and will have attractive eyes, ears, teeth and nose. 

168. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have sickly body, will be bilious 
and phlegmatic in temperament and will always move in forests. 

169. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have own business, will have 
income through arts, be liberal in giving away gifts and will be endowed with all pleasures. 
170. Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be free form grief and fear, be 
inactive, or foolish due to some sin, or blemish and will be highly pious. 

171. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will consider justice, as the most 
supreme aim, will have virtues, be truthful, be dear to the virtuous and will have pleasing 
looks. 

172. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be subjected, troubles by 
abundantly, labouring, will be extremely emaciated, skillful in spending, expert in guess, be 
devoid of wealth, be phlegmatic, expert in promoting quarrels and will cheat. 

173. Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be worshipped by Lord Indra (i.e. 
so superior a person), will eat and drink abundantly, will be interested in possessing 
conveyances, will possess attractive eyes and be unkind. 

174. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will consider piousness, as supreme, be a 
good singer, be very strong, very happy and truthful. 

175. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in comforts will 
always be pure and clean, will be interested in listening to auspicious stories, will have a 
beautiful body and be the leader of men. 

176. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have good knees and feet, will 


follow elders in respect of fame, wealth and happiness, be interested in performing 


sacrifices, worship etc. 

177. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have more gains, will be 
subjected to fear, will contact be venereal diseases due to sexual union with poor women 

and will wander. 

178. Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be endowed with happiness, will 
have a fleet of horses, will have many friends, be proud, dear to good people and will 
befriend elders. 

179. Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have loss of horses, will practice self 
restraint, will present an artificial disposition (while inwardly he will be of a different 

nature), will be pious and will have parents with him. 

180. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will consider money, as the most 
important aim, will have knowledge of Shastras, will win his five senses and will be pious to 
the Almighty. 

181. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 1st Bhava: will be helpful to others, 
wicked, cruel, will be subjected to grief and be virtuous. 

182. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be subjected to great 
penury, be devoid of enemies, be extreme in nature, will be forsaken by his caste, will have 
defect in limbs, be very sickly broken-hearted and modest. 

183. Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be hard hearted and will 
always be insulted by others. 

184. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will be interested in committing 
sinful acts and will have many kind of diseases. 

185. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 1st Bhava: will have vices and various 


diseases. 


186 2N° 


187. Sun, Moon in the 2nd Bhava: will not have money, will be ungrateful, will always 
possess bad disposition, will not be splendorous, will be subjected to diseases and fear. 
188. Sun, Mars in the 2nd Bhava: will suffer from penury, be shameless, unkind and 
sinful. 

189. Sun, Mercury in the 2nd Bhava: His body will be full of boils and wounds, he will not 


have any property, will be bad in disposition, will be bereft of servants, be troubled by 


others and will be subjected to much grief. 

190. Sun, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be immodest, will be troubled, interested in 

committing sinful acts, be eloquent in speech and will contact difficulties in foreign 

countries. 

191. Sun, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be cruel in nature, attached to basemen, will have 

many enemies, will instilll fear in others and be not bright in appearance. 

192. Sun, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will contact many diseases, will approach others in vain, be 
unkind, be not angry and will not join the virtuous. 

193. Moon, Mars in the 2nd Bhava: will be ruled by the public, will have a dejected wife, 

will look old, be ungrateful, be a servant, be wicked and bright in appearance. 

194. Moon, Mercury in the 2nd Bhava: will be very rich, be free from vices and dear to the king. 
195. Moon, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be a king, will be splendorous, be interested in 
virtues, will destroy enemies, will have many sons and be liked by the public. 

196. Moon, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will have virtue, as his wealth, will be either a king, or a 
minister, will have many friends and will be attached to his son. 

197. Moon, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will not have any wealth, will follow bad course, will be 
troubled by enemies, be argumentative in nature and his relatives will perish. 

198. Mars, Mercury in the 2nd Bhava: will lose wife and wealth, be subjected to blemish, will 
contact diseases, will not possess good qualities and will not patronize his relatives. 

199. Mars, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, will have few sons 
and will be blamed in arguments. 

200. Mars, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be sickly, be unwise, ill-natured, will have few sons 

and will be blamed in arguments. 

201. Mars, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have wealth, grains, pearls and such other precious 
stones, will acquire few sons and be untruthful. 

202. Mercury, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will have knowledge of Supreme Spirit, will head a town, 
or be equal to a king, be wealthy, will have virtues worth respect and will be expert in 
mathematics. 

203. Mercury, Venus: will acquire a fleet of horses and elephants, be very wealthy, wise, virtuous, 
truthful and will be dear to Brahmins. 

204. Mercury, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, fierce, wicked and will join bad 
elements. 


205. Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be chief among kings, will be endowed with honour, 


wealth and army, will honour good deeds, will live by praise and valour and will be 
successful. 

206. Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be troubled by kings, be quite sickly, greedy, be free 
from enemies and be not happy in any respect. 

207. Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be bereft of sons and money, be dirty in appearance, 
cruel and will perform bad acts. 

208. Sun, Moon, Mars in the 2nd Bhava: will not be wealthy, be troubled by others, be 

not efficacious, be cruel and will be troubled by fear. 

209. Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 2nd Bhava: will be timid by nature, be indigent, will have a 
bad wife and will experience grief by his own bad acts. 

210. Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will have gad sons, will torture others, be 
sensuous, ungrateful and will instilll fear in elders. 

211. Sun, Moon, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will indulge in enmity with friends, will have 
conveyances, will not have much wealth, will look ugly, will depend on elders and be given 
to anger. 

212. Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be ungrateful, be interested in visiting foreign 
countries, interested in gambling, will face troubles, be not virtuous and be with little 
wealth. 

213. Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 2nd Bhava: will be a dunce, a spendthrift, be truthful, will 
have a prodigal son, be shameless and be devoid of friendliness. 

214. Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, be wicked, will have a 
lean body and will earn enmity in service. 

215. Sun, Mars, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will not have common sense, will be forsaken by 
many, will prove a bad servant, be interested in battle and will lose property. 

216. Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have a polluted physique, be devoid of 
qualities and wealth, be fond of promoting quarrels, be sick at all times and will be 
condemned by good people. 

217. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will have many wounds and boils in the body, be 
blamed, wicked, be troubled by people and will wound other’s feelings. 

218. Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be always insulted, will look, like a lion, be 
sensuous, miserly, will face ups and downs and be a simpleton. 

219. Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will derive help from his own people, will be 


indigent, be fierce, be not virtuous and be a simpleton. 


220. Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be dull-witted, not learned, unwise, will lose 
property, be defeated and be a miser. 

221. Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be given to much anger, be troubled by 
diseases, be interested in promoting quarrels, be devoid of righteous deeds and be very 
indigent. 

222. Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in acts, which are not righteous, be 
wicked, immodest, troubled and will indulge in gad acts. 

223. Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 2nd Bhava: will be subject to vicissitude, be harsh in speech, 
be scandalous in money matters, be childless, get fiver to much anger, will suffer from 
diseases and be forsaken by his relatives. 

224. Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be poor in status, be devoid of wife, issue 

and wealth, be very greedy and will suffer from diseases. 

225. Moon, Mars, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be troubled by diseases caused due to 
phlegmatic disorders, will not respect his preceptors, be very justly disposed and will be 
banned from the purview of Shastras. 

226. Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be naturally wicked, be fond of alcohol, be 
interested in gambling, be a dejected soul and be forsaken by his relatives. 

227. Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be a king, will be insulted much, be beautiful 
land will be endowed with learning and riches. 

228. Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be affluent, will have a number of friends, will 
be learned in Shastras, be virtuous, be very learned and be always affectionate. 

229. Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be efficacious and helpful, be a spendthrift, be 
subjected to grief on account of his wife, be a donor and will cheat others. 

230. Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be happy, will have good ideals, be a king, be 
very famous, be very wise and will have a questionable (mean) profession. 

231. Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be free from anger, will be interested in good 
conduct, be sweet in disposition, will be attractive and will be affectionate to his son. 

232. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of ideals, will not have any wealth, 
be very wicked, be attached to other’s wives, will wander aimlessly and will be tortured by 

his libidinous disposition. 

233. Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will consider justice, as the most supreme ideal, 
be an agriculturist, will pull carts, will own fleet of quadrupeds and will have many friends. 


234. Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be very angrily disposed, will be fond of meat 


and flesh, will be interested in possessing weapons, will torture others, will spend much 

and be a source of grief to his own people. 

235. Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be and expert artisan, will take to righteous 
path, will perform penance, will possess attractive body and be fearless. 

236. Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will possess good robes, will enjoy much of 
pleasures, will be interested in women, will be an able speaker, be interested in Shastras, be 
very wealthy and very attractive. 

237. Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be a king, will own a fleet of superior class of 
elephants and horses, be very affluent and be attached to his relatives. 

238. Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will become superior by his righteous acts, be 
famous, be useful (to others), be very kind and be garrulous. 

239. Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have a strong and prominent belly, will be 
interested in various sciences and to be truthful, be a drunkard, but will be piously 

attached to Lord Krishna. 

240. Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be endowed with sons and wealth, will be a 
scholar, be justly disposed, be happy, be very affectionate and splendorous. 

241. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 2nd Bhava: will be attached to evil countries (or 
places), will indulge in unethical acts, will derive happiness from his wicked wife and will 
incur grief through his sons. 

242. Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will not be of good disposition, will not 

be virtuous, will be untruthful, will be very phlegmatic in temperament and libidinous. 

243. Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will always be worried, be dirty, will instill 
fear in others, be ungrateful, be troubled and be not famous. 

244. Sun, Moon, Man gal, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have shaky teeth and long stomach, 
will not be so freely, will speak doubtfully (not confident), be unwise and be not successful 
in his mission. 

245. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will eat anything available, will be troubled 
due to excess of the three humours, will be very greedy and will befriend very bad 
elements. 

246. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will have diseases related to penis (i.e. 
urinal diseases, venereal diseases, bladder etc.), will be of mean disposition, will have few 
sons, will have daughters and be not virtuous. 


247. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will suffer headache and from windy and 


phlegmatic diseases and be not attached to his own people. 

248. Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will not be sharp, will be dejected with 
people, will be troubled, blame -worthy and timid. 

249. Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have plenty of hair on the head, will not 
be dear to the virtuous, elders, Brahmins etc., will grow by eating food given by others and 
will have trouble from kings. 

250. Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of sons, will grow fat by excess 
work, will have mean ideals and be bereft of pleasures. 

251. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of good disposition, be 
fierce, be devoid of sons, will be interested in women, will have diseased eyes, be 
spendthrift and have mental worries. 

252. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be sinful, be forsaken by his virtuous 
wife, will be devoid of good relatives and be interested in sexual acts. 

253. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be troubled by wounds, will have fear, 
be very proud, be very sinful and be not well-taught. 

254. Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will have good speech and eyes, will be a 
tale-bearer, will not show interest in giving donations/gifts, be not grateful and will suffer 
from great blemishes. 

255. Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be very famous, will have big bones 

and long hair, will live in foreign countries, will have more enemies, will be friendly, will 
always be angry, be troubled, wicked, cruel, shameless and be forsaken by his wife. 

256. Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have many troubles, be not virtuous, be 
devoid of happiness and knowledge of Shastras and will befriend only sinners. 

257. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be sickly be emaciated, be less truthful, 
be dull-witted and interested in bad tales. 

258. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will not have wealth, will be greedy, will look 
ugly and will have diseased eyes, will not have happy relations, will be interested in sexual 
affairs and be sickly disposed. 

259. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be dear to sages/good people, be 
interested in Shastras and Puranas, be devoted to Brahmins and will be pleasing to look at. 
260. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, 
religious observations and Shastras, will be worshipped and be equal to a king. 


261. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will consider money the most important, 


will have agricultural profession, will own a fleet of horses, will acquire gold, will be 

famous, will be a poet, will be interested in giving donations/gifts and will be attractive in 
appearance. 

262. Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoid of learning, will be 

calculative, will be a scholar and dear to Brahmins. 

263. Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be successful, will have virtuous 

children, be affluent, be honoured even by kings, will observe religious regulations, will 

have various kinds of horses, robes and things, be free from diseases and be virtuous. 

264. Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in performing sacrifices of 
religious nature and serving the virtuous, be an able speaker, be very wealthy and be 

interested in Shastras. 

265. Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be dear to Brahmins, will possess 
attractive body, will speak smilingly, be always happy and be dear to the king. 

266. Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be a chief with the king, will be respected 
even by his enemies, will have much wealth and donate liberally. 

267. Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be chief among many men, be respected 
by kings, be minister, be always happy and be famous. 

268. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be favourable to Brahmins, be 
famously valorous, be skillful in achieving royal missions patient and happy in all respects. 

269. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be related to foreign countries, will 
have income, be attached to the virtuous, will have gardens and wills and will be on king’s 
mission. 

270. Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have a modest wife, will have attractive 
body, be attached to the virtuous and will have abundant grains and money. 

271. 0 DQ gal, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have abundant corns, will acquire 
knowledge of Shastras, be happy, be chief amongst poets and will be principled. 

272. Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be skillful in all kinds of arts, will destroy 
enemies, will be famous and be attached to wealth. 

273. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 2nd Bhava: will be worried, very greedy, not 

wise and will have small body. 

274. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be subjected to troubles due 

to excessive mundane attachment, be not splendorous, be windy in temperament and 


interested in committing sinful acts. 


275. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be a night-blind, be 

libidinous, will lose his property, will be inimical to many and be dull-witted. 

276. Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be without any assignment, 

be not rich, be without good robes, be troubled by diseases and interested in living in 

foreign countries. 

277. Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be inimical even to friends, be 
not helpful to others, will be very poor, will have poor (unrewarding) profession and be 

not valorous. 

278. Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in association with 
wicked people, will be troubled by wounds and boils, be very sinful and be much angrily 
disposed. 

279. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be egoistic, impatient, unkind 
and unjust. 

280. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be very greedy, short tempered, 
devoid of desires, be unjust and timid. 

281. Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be poor, be troubled out of fear, 
be very sinful, devoid of desires, interested in virtues and will have attractive eyes and 

legs. 

282. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be blame -worthy, ungrateful, 
will do others’ jobs, will give high importance to wife and will not be masculine in 

disposition. 

283. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will face obstacles (in his 
undertakings), will cheat, be ungrateful, will undertake to do inimical acts and will have 

and inimical wife. 

284. Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will not have people of his own, who 
will have their money (i.e. his own people will be devoid of money), will have vices, will 

not be kind at all and will be inimical to Shastras. 

285. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be interested in getting the jobs 
of his relatives done, be very wealthy, learned in Vedas (Shastras etc.) and be pure. 

286. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will have good friends, be modest, 
be disinterested, will not have food to eat and will suffer from lung disorders. 

287. Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be devoted to elders and 


Brahmins, be good looking, be liberal and skillful in divine undertakings, viz. Puja etc. 


288. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be given to anger to a small 
extent, will be very interested in friends and Shastras and be adventurous. 

289. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 2nd Bhava: will be very much worried, 

be devoid of truth and wealth, wicked and attached to bad elements. 

290. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will not attain crops, will 

have no sons, be very wicked, attached to undesirable learning etc. and will befriend bad 
elements. 

291. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be given to anger chiefly, 
will prove an evil to friends, be chief among men and be a big cheat. 

292. Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be proud, will dislike to 

listen to religious stories, will be fickle-minded in speech and will be subjected to much 

grief. 

293. Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will not attain fame, will not be 
rich, be blameworthy, be chief and be free from expenses. 

294. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will not successfully perform 

his own profession, will be foolish, sick and be troubled. 

295. Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: The native will have the seas, 
as boundaries of his kingdom, will hold the flag of virtue aloft and be very famous. 

296. Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 2nd Bhava: will be endowed with 


wealth, horses and elephants galore and be highly virtuous. 


297 3RD 


298. Sun, Moon: will have affectionate wife and affectionate relatives, will be attached to 
others, will observe religious fasting etc., will have knowledge of Shastras, will possess sweet 
voice, will be a poet and will have increasing fame. 

299. Sun, Mars: will be equal to a king, will have lands, be interested in possessing 
conveyances, will have attractive eyes, will be courteous to guests and will acquire many 
sons. 

300. Sun, Mercury in the 3rd Bhava: will have many sons and grandsons, will be widely 
famous, be very valorous, will win his five senses and be dear to people. 

301 Sun, Jupiter in the 3ra Bhava: will be wicked, will have many family members, and will be 


firm in nature and will not have growing wisdom. 


302 Sun, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will lose his good son, be mean minded, will suffer much 
poverty, be interested in foreign visits and will be very proud. 

303 Sun, Saturn: will have lasting blame, will kill his enemies, will be expert in eloquent 
speech and will be useful to kings. 

304 Moon, Mars: will be an expert agriculturist, be unhappy, will have many expenses, be 
dear to women and be attached to his children. 

305 Moon, Mercury: will by ugly, be interested in gambling, be jealous, wicked, ill-tempered 
and always fickle-minded. 

306 Moon, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will have great vices, be subjected to much worries, be 
interested in making enmity and be not bold. 

307 Moon, Venus: will have attractive hands and thighs, be dull-witted, will be able to endure 
worries and will live a life with poverty. 

308 Moon, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be free from diseases, be devoid of worldly desires, 
will be attentive, be honoured by many virtuous people and be passionate. 

309 Mars, Mercury in the 3rd Bhava: will be helpful to others, will possess a physique with 
pleasant flavor, will have beautiful hair, be very efficacious and be endowed with all 
riches. 

310 Mars, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: be fearless, interested in virtues, very pious, 
splendorous, highly truthful and pure. 

311 Mars, Venus: will be skillful artist, be virtuous, interested in visiting shrines, will 
possess good qualities and be justly disposed. 

312 Mars, will be so powerful, as a king, be free from all kind of diseases, will head 

even the kings and will attain success over enemies. 

313 Mercury, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will be fearful in war, dull-witted, be not virtuous, be 
devoid of intelligence, will not have good relatives and be sickly. 

314 Mercury, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will possess riches, be afflicted, will be ignorant, or 
illusory, be highly interested in sexual acts, be troubled by sons and will suffer from secret 
diseases. 

315 Mercury, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be close to affluent class, be interested in good 
conduct, will possess attractive limbs, will have bright face and be of good disposition. 

316 Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will not be prosperous, be devoid of sons, be defeated, will 
have abundant grief and also abundant happiness, be devoid of shame and be not friendly. 


317 Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be firm in disposition, will be self-sufficient in respect 


of food, drinks and robes learned, be chief in his race and rich. 


318 Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be endowed with riches, will possess a clear disposition, 
be dear to kings free from diseases and honoured. 

319 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 3rd Bhava: will have very supreme position, will have 
conveyances, be prosperous, be very rich and will be intelligent. 

320 Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 3rd Bhava: will be very fortunate, be interested in Shastras, be 
inclined to do the jobs of the virtuous, be a great person and be devoid of fear. 

321 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will not be efficacious, will have a barren wife, be 
interested in befriending mean people, be prone to danger and devoid of learning. 

322 Sun, Moon, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, be ungrateful, be 
deformed and wicked. 

323 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will possess beautiful body, be interested in 
performing Homas, Pooja, donation etc., will have many friends and be shameful. 

324 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 3rd Bhava: will be chief in a king’s place, be highly truthful, 

be famous, be very beautiful, be very rich, be interested in donating and will have others in 
his company. 

325 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will be very valorous, will have control over his 

five senses, be not given to anger, be virtuous and attached to others. 

326 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will not be beautiful, be interested in performing 
virtues acts, will have many children and be devoid of sexual feelings. 

327 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be king of kings, will be very rich with 

elephants and horses, be valorous, be a poet and will instill fear in enemies. 

328 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will be a successful army chief, will win over his 
enemies and be endowed with patience. 

329 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, be dear to 
virtuous people, be an agriculturist, be very rich and acceptable to all. 

330 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will win over enemies, will possess many weapons, 
be expert in fighting a war, be patient and will always have good conduct. 

331 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be justly disposed, interested in stories and be 
equal to a king. 

332 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be famous for performance, will be interested in 


giving donations, be attached to women, be attractive, will-trained and skillful in all arts. 


333 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 3rd Bhava: be learned in Vedas, be an agriculturist, be 
interested in listening to religious stories, will have strong body and be very valorous. 

334 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 3ra Bhava: will perform peculiar acts, be interested in 
learning Shastras, will enjoy various kinds of food and drinks and will be principled and 
opposed to sinful schemes. 

335 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will possess a modest wife, will be full of faith, be 
skillful in speech, famous and fearless. 

336 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be helpful to others, famous, very rich, 
splendorous, modest and will be lord of women. 

337 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will always be poor, will promote quarrels, be ill-tempered, 
interested in committing sinful deeds and will destroy his own relatives. 

338 Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be insulted by others, will undertake mean 
professions, be ungrateful, be subjected to much grief and be opposed to good men. 

339 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will grow by eating others’ food, destroy enemies, 
be free from sickness and be always happy. 

340 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be subjected to many difficulties, be shameless, 
unkind and inimical to Shastras, elders and Brahmins. 

341 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will eat any casual food, will be honoured by all, 
will control his mind, will be a lord, be not learned and will destroy his enemies. 

342 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will make one learned in Vedas, Agamas etc., a 
preceptor by king’s appointment, will be bestowed with great beauty and will be much 
sought after by one and all. 

343 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will have strong body, be not proud, will visit 
shrines, will donate liberally, be very valorous and be dear to his own men. 

344 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will have all happiness and pleasures, be dear to 
women, be truthful, be great, will perform royal duty and be free from greed. 

345 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be happy and prosperous, be endowed with 
wealth, horses, elephants etc., will be very kind and firmly disposed. 

346 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will have chiefly sons, be pure being truthful, be 
skillful in speech, fearless and be liked by many. 

347 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will acquire gold, be righteous, be an agriculturist, 
will acquire quadrupeds, be very attractive and will always speak truth. 


348 Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be very valorous, be modest, righteous, firm 


and happy with sons. 

349 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be timid in nature, be won by enemies, 
ignorant, or illusioned and will suffer from diseases, like itch (and other skin diseases) 

350 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will donate prominently, be free from afflictions, 
learned in Shastras, prosperous, will work with modesty and will be very proud. 

351 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: the native will be a liar, wicked and related to other 
women illegally. 

352 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will respect sages, (or wise men) be learned in Vedas 
etc., interested in singing, be not sinful, be interested in women’s wealth, be prosperous, 
will locate hidden treasures, be dear to young women and will be firm in friendship. 

353 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 3rd Bhava: will acquire plenty of riches, be very 
efficacious, will like those, who have an attractive physique and be interested in good 
deeds and principles. 

354 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will be truthful, will win over enemies, 

will be egoistic and will win many friends out of his eloquence. 

355 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be chief among the cousins, will earn 

a number of friends, be dear to virtuous people and will respect his teachers. 

356 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be skillful in learning, be the head of a 
town, will own many villages and quadrupeds and be worshipped by the king. 

357 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will be attached to elders, be friendly to 
virtuous people, will have many assignments and will respect Brahmins. 

358 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, robes, 
food etc., be famous and be happy with sons. 

359 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be modest, be interested in gardens 
wills, trees etc., will continue to have acquisition of wealth and be pious. 

360 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will be a king, be splendorous, be very 
chief among men, will have faith in Shastras and be always kindly disposed. 

361 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will possess superior diamonds, will 
acquire sons and wealth, will be successful and will conquer his enemies. 

362 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be famous, will always wed success, 
will lend help to animals, be beautiful, will conquer his senses and be virtuous. 

363 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be highly placed among his own men, 


wealthy, enthusiastic and valorous. 


364 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will possess highly good qualities, will be 
endowed with beauty, learning, wealth and justice, be very efficacious and be free from 
vices. 

365 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be intelligent, will possess an auspicious 
physique, be attached to those born in supreme race, will be highly praised and dear to his 
people. 

366 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will worship the Almighty and Brahmins, be 
not attached to anything, be famous for his wisdom and will have good sons. 

367 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be interested in making friendship with 
good people, will have knowledge of philosophy and be famous for his Shastras learning. 

368 Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will have servants, be learned in Shastras, be 
endowed with virtues and justice and will be worshipped by the king. 

369 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will have many sons, be famous, very learned, 
be free from afflictions and will own elephants. 

370 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will be wicked, immodest, given to much 
anger and will be bad in nature. 

371 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will not have common sense, will be bereft 
of sons and relatives, be interested in war and will promote quarrels. 

372 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be inspired with love, be not virtuous, 
be lazy, unkind and interested in adventures. 

373 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: be not splendorous, will not have 
intelligence and prosperity, will be greedy and will always suffer afflictions. 

374 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be attached to people in the town, will 
have good behavior, be highly respected, be interested in eating flesh, be truthful and 
wealthy. 

375 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will have bad disposition, be fickle minded, 
will suffer from penury and be interested in living in foreign countries. 

376 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be worried, will have desires, be not 
proficient, will have a dejected wife and will destroy his place. 

377 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be deprived of wife and horses (i.e. 
conveyances), will suffer from excess of wind and phlegm, will spend on bad missions and 

be enthusiastic in committing sinful acts. 


378 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will not have good history, will be devoid of 


noble aims, be deprived of his own men, be not learned and will be friendly. 

379 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will hate Brahmins, will consume intoxicants, 
will be very base in disposition and be dirty. 

380 O DQ gal, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be happy, will have many sons, be 
truthful, be very rich, will win over his senses and be not virtuous. 

381 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will consider money supreme, will become 
virtuous by giving donations, be attached to people and Shastras. 

382 Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be very truthful, be interested in 
observing the requirements laid down for his own caste, be very famous, be dear to guests 
and be praised by his relatives. 

383 Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will possess a beautiful body, be wicked, 
be not sinful and be rich. 

384 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be wicked, be sinful, ungrateful, not 
virtuous and be unjust. 

385 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 3rd Bhava: will be very rich, will be 

bestowed with sons, will be beautiful, dear to this wife and will have pleasing appearance. 
386 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be a great man, will be very 
famous in performing yagnas, will hold the flag of virtue a lot, will be helpful to living 

beings and will be a chief. 

387 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be a scholar, be interested in 
maintaining self respect, will enjoy abundant pleasures, will be virtuous and also a singer. 
388 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will eat crabs, will be very wicked, 

will respect gods and Brahmins and will know his duties. 

389 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will not perform worships (due, as 
routine), will control his enemies ‘pride, will give importance to friends and will be very 

shy. 

390 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be kindly disposed, sill perform 
such acts, that will bring fame, be grateful, be dear to the virtuous and to his own men. 

391 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be favourable to guests, will 
respect God and men and will possess good disposition. 

392 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be successful in undertakings, 
will consider money, as important, will enjoy robes and jewels and be beautiful. 


393 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will possess scented articles and 


robes, will have knowledge of Shastras, be famous and will be happy with an extremely 
virtuous wife. 

394 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be interested in good qualities, 
be famous, amiable to all, intent on giving gifts and will not be attached to anything. 

395 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will have truth, as the foremost aim, 
be justly disposed, will donate, be very patient and will be dear to Brahmins. 

396 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be free from (unnecessary) 
expenses, will have pure mind, be skillful and will not have firm sexual feelings. 

397 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be fierce, interested in stories 
related to sex, be grateful and unenthusiastic. 

398 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will have wicked disposition, will 
suffer from heavy thirst, will spend a lot and will hate Shastras. 

399 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will have blemishes, will respect 
God and Brahmins, be sinful and will be troubled by sexual feelings. 

400 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will not be enthusiastic, be wicked, 
very cunning and be not splendorous, adverse to sex feelings. 

401 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be interested in mean people, 
will be bad in disposition and will desire to have his children in big families. 

402 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will have wonderful appearance and 
jewels, will be beautiful, be interested in singing and be virtuous. 

403 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 3rd Bhava: will be expert in Gandharva 
vedas, will have an auspicious face, beautiful eyes and pleasing looks (appearance). 

404 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will have the opportunity to 
visit shrines and the native will live in forests and hills. 

405 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be dear to great people 
and to virtuous Brahmins. 

406 Sun, Moon, Man gal, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be endowed with 
riches, be skillful in justice and will have an attractive face. 

407 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be subject to diseases of 
head and mind, will live in foreign countries, or deserted places. 

408 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be wealthy, will conquer 
five senses and be without propitiousness. 


409 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 3rd Bhava: will be successful, skillful, be 


very propitious, or lucky and famous. 


410 4th 


411 Sun, Moon in the 4th Bhava: will be bereft of happiness and pleasures, be subject to 
perils, will be able to guess others’ thinking, be not splendorous and not friendly. 

412 Sun, Mars in the 4th Bhava: will suffer bloody and windy diseases, be not 
propitious/lucky, be subjected to troubles and given to anger. 

413 Sun, Mercury in the 4th Bhava: will suffer from windy and phlegmatic diseases, will 
have few sons, be insulted by enemies, attached to wicked people and interested in his 
own country. 

414 Sun, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be sinful, be devoid of wealth, be assumed in, or of 
false disposition be highly phlegmatic and be ill-tempered. 

415 Sun, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be very much addicted to intoxication, be subjected 
physical ailments, be cruel and fickle minded. 

416 Sun, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be troubled by Gods, be very ill-tempered, be 
interested in promoting quarrels, be devoid of shame and be dull witted. 

417 Moon, Mars in the 4th Bhava: will have few sons, be impatient, be interested in 
others’ wives, dear to people and be forsaking by his own children. 

418 Moon, Mercury: will be very truthful, be clear in speech, be very wise, be dear to people 
and be supreme among the beings. 

419 Moon, Jupiter: will have knowledge of politics, be beautiful, very garrulous, dear to 
king, kind and will respect Gods and preceptors. 

420 Moon, Venus: will be a great man, will have large hands, will be very happy by having 
many a friend and many a son, be chief among the men of his race and be ever modest. 
421 Moon, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will always be sick, be hard-hearted, be blameworthy, 
ungrateful and interested in other countries. 

422 Mars, Mercury in the 4th Bhava: will have wounded physique, will steal women, be a 
drunkard, a gambler and be attached to none. 

423 Mars, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be successful, poor, akin to cupid, interested in 
sins, forsaken by his relatives and will have penchant for arts. 

424 Mars, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be subjected to much grief, will expend on bad 


means, be unfriendly, will perform mean acts and will talk unnecessarily. 


425 Mercury, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be very happy, very kind hearted, will perform such 
acts, as to bring fame, be patient and worshipped by the king. 

426 Mercury, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be dear to the king, be equal to the king and be a 
minister, or chief of army. 

427 Mercury, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be won over by enemies, be short of blood, be sick 
and will suffer from fever. 

428 Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will have wealth in plenty, will be endowed with gold, 
pearls and sons, will be faithful to religion and interested in shrines etc. 

429 Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: It produces a cook, or a potter, or an artisan. 

430 Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will have less happiness, will be devoid of tongue, will 
have dejected friends, be timid and will cheat others. 

431 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 4th Bhava: will not be able to achieve success in his aim, 

will have foul smell in mouth, be devoid of intelligence, be fierce, be troubled by phlegm 
and be subjected to miseries. 

432 Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of good qualities, will have hands 
devoid of much splendour, will be ungrateful and will be happy with the money earned 
through very hard labour. 

433 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in indulging in bad acts 

causing difficulties, be sick, be addicted to vices, be subjected to penury and be devoid of 
wisdom and wealth. 

434 Sun, Moon, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will always be attached to his wife, be given to 
anger, will indulge in mean acts, will be insulted by others and be not just. 

435 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be highly rheumatic (windy), be fierce, be 
devoid and respect for Gods and preceptors, will befriend many bad elements and be bad 
in mentally. 

436 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 4th Bhava: will be fierce in disposition, will be interested 

in others’ money, will forsake his family, be bad in mentality, will wed a barren lady and 
will hate Shastras. 

437 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of parents, relatives, character, 
splendour and sexual feelings, be attached to mean people and hard-hearted. 

438 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be primarily happy, will have a large army, 

be interested in Shastras and Puranas, be ill-disposed and be timid. 


439 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be subjected to various worries, be devoid 


of shame, be indolent (be dull-witted, as per Balabhadra), be short-lived and just. 

440 Sun, Mercury, and Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be honoured, grieved, and attached to bad 
people, be a miser, will be very much happy and be troubled by enemies. 

441 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in sins, bad in disposition, will 
be troubled due to excessive phlegm, be shameless, will have bad nails and be ungrateful. 
442 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of good history, will be troubled by 
friendship with bad elements and be wicked. 

443 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with wife, children and wealth. 
He will suffer from eye diseases. He will be intelligent. 

444 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in other’s money, will forsake 
truth, be hard-hearted and will be devoid of wisdom, wealth and justice due to curse. 

445 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be forsaken by friends, will not be good-looking, 
will be endowed with wife, will have excess of deficiency of a limb and be not 

virtuous. 

446 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 4th Bhava: will acquire learning, be virtuous, be very 
happy, will conquer his senses and will be insulted by wicked people. 

447 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will enjoy all kinds of happiness, be honoured 
by kings and own relatives and be endowed with quadrupeds. 

448 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will have wicked sons and wandering nature. 
449 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be free from committing sinful acts, be 
interested in Castraic knowledge, be tactful, be a powerful speaker and will earn much. 
450 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be a king, will be free from diseases, will 
have many kinds of horses, be given to anger, will be very efficacious and will conquer his 
enemies. 

451 Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with great lordship, will be 
famous because of his great wife, be kind and be interested in good people. 

452 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with great lordship, sill be a 
great personage, be chief in his lineage and will be brought up affectionately by his 
parents. 

453 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will have wisdom, learning, skillful sons and 
expertise in arts. 

454 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be famous, interested in comforts, be free 


from sickness, will have good heart, will have sons, who will be endowed with various 


riches and be a lord. 

455 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be notably courageous, will enjoy the 
company of a good girl among relatives and will earn wonderful things through king’s 
patronage. 

456 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will enjoy happiness through sons, be an 
agriculturist, be endowed with fame, valour etc. and will be attached to his guests and 
Brahmins. 

457 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will grow various varieties of crops, will have 
many quadrupeds and will have a number of relatives. 

458 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be very greedy, be bereft of friends, be 
interested in others’ wives, be hard hearted and be always dirty. 

459 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will always have good disposition, will visit 
sacred places, will be endowed with much fame and much valour, be chief among the 
members of his lineage and will have auspicious and fully grown body. 

460 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will have good qualities, will have less earnings 
and less happiness, will be a servant and a will-wisher of the king. 

461 Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be wicked in disposition, be against good 
people, be very ill- tempered and hard-hearted. 

462 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will lord over the earth, be devoid of enemies, will 
have sons, be virtuous in disposition and will have pleasing looks. 

463 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be a befitting groom, will have knowledge of 
Mantras and will give liberal gifts to preceptors and relatives. 

464 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will perform his duties, will be a merchant, be 
patient, be interested in giving donations and be pure. 

465 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be a repository of fame, will have religious 
initiation, be interested in the duties of the elders, will have an auspicious face and be 
chief among men. 

466 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 4th Bhava: will be bereft of wisdom, be insulted by 
others, be forsaken by his own people, be unkind and timid. 

467 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of good qualities, will 

give up his children, be fearful, will not have good history and be not happy. 

468 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of friends, money and 


beauty, will be conquered by others and will be mindless. 


469 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be unkind, be a thief, be fierce and 
interested in promoting quarrels. 

470 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be very inquisitive, be troubled by 
sexual feelings, will be devoid of good qualities and will be of low caste. 

471 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will look ugly, will not be friendly, will not 
have hair on the limbs (i. e. on chest, arms, knees etc.) and will always be interested in 
living in foreign countries. 

472 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will not have any aims will be a thief, will 
be interested in females belonging to others, will take to very mean professions and will be 
bad disposition. 

473 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will lose his attention, will be interested in 
promoting quarrels, will be harsh in speech, will be ugly in appearance and will wear rags. 
474 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will live in bad countries, will be cheated 
by women, be interested in prostitutes and be unkind. 

475 Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in good justice, will like to 
gamble, will lose wealth, be ugly and connected with bad deeds. 

476 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be troubled by hunger, weapons and 
diseases and be excessively windy. 

477 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will have fierce eyes, will be night blind, 
be interested in husbandry and be sinful. 

478 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be of untruthful disposition, will not 

be patient and be garrulous. 

479 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will not have good nature, will wear rags, 
be not friendly, will behave, like a wise man, will have evils. 

480 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will acquire a wife, will be insulted by 
others, will have a wounded physique, will cause nuisance to public and will always have 
enemies. 

481 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will always be an employer, will be served by 
many attendants, will do liberal acts and be fearless in disposition. 

482 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: 

483 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be timid in nature, truthful, kind 
respectful to Brahmins and will like virtues. 


484 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be devoted to others, will have 


numerous workmen, be widely famous, very wealthy and be dear to people. 

485 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be very surprisingly bold, will be 
endowed with wealth of passion and be attached to good men. 

486 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with virtues, will feel 
happy to serve virtuous men, will perform auspicious acts and will have wisdom, as his 
pride. 

487 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be respectful to Brahmins, be 
enthusiastic, be interested in virtues, be liked by women and will be famous for his 

efficacy. 

488 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be highly bashful, be interested in his 
duty, be of truthful disposition and will be attached to those, who perform penance. 

489 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will help Brahmins, will help others, will 
not be attached to anything, will enjoy good fame and will be successful in arguments. 

490 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will have many sons, will be liked by 
women, be free from blemish, will be happy with wisdom and wealth and be a lord. 

491 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in earning money through 
merchandising (i.e. business in general), be famous and be always endowed with mental 
vigor. 

492 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with extremely merciful 
tendency, be devoid of sex feelings, will speak clearly (eloquently), will be justly disposed 
and respectful, or honourable. 

493 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will have respect for his preceptors, will 
not spend (unnecessarily), will be very wealthy, will be very respectable and be a lord. 

494 Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be an astrologer, will be very much 
interested in gathering Castraic knowledge, be very wise and will have plenty of food of his 
liking. 

495 Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will have liking to learn about the 
Supreme Spirit, be devoid of sins, will speak truth and will be known in royal circle. 

496 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will play musical instruments, will be very 
kind and will be bold in rendering to help others. 

497 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 4th Bhava: will be ignoble, be troubled by 
diseases of private parts, be ungrateful, will have prominent belly and be devoid of 


moustache. 


498 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of religious 

conduct, be interested in sexual affairs, be very sickly, will not trust others and be fickleminded. 
499 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be highly greedy, will be 
patriotic, will lack courtesy and will always be devoid of wealth. 

500 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in sword-flight, 

will reveal pride in face, be shameless and will lack masculine vigour. 

501 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will have declined wealth due to 
many enemies, will always intend to make enmity and will be unkind. 

502 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be always subjected to 

troubles, be devoid of virtues, will belong to a low caste and will “imprison” others. 

503 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will act slowly after thinking 
properly, will have more enemies, will have beautiful hair and be devoid of efficacy. 

504 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will have many blemishes, will suffer 
from tuberculosis, be not splendorous and will lose friends. 

505 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, will suffer 
grief on account of issue, will be very mean and fickle minded. 

506 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be very sickly will be troubled 
by kings, will always be subjected to grief and will have vices. 

507 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will experience much miseries, will 
have unafflicted limbs, will promote quarrels and be firm in blaming. 

508 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be discarded by Brahmins, will 
follow religious observations, will be interested in bad acts and will always suffer from 
penury. 

509 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will give up his own religion and 
follow that of others, will be devoid of good character and good disposition. 

510 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will be endowed with great 
happiness and great wealth, will talk tactfully, be not learned and will be dear to people. 
511 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be interested in consecration, 
religious observations, bathing etc., will be of superior disposition and be expert in justice. 
512 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will possess high splendour and 
Castraic wisdom, will be honoured, be patient and will respect Gods and preceptors. 

513 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be very kind, be interested in 


Shastras, be virtuous and wear Lapis Lazuli (i.e. cat’s eye) etc. 


514 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be honoured by kings. 

515 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be with good men, will be great 
himself, be courageous, be a poet and be amicable to relatives. 

516 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 4th Bhava: will wear rags, be devoid of 
friendship, be very short-tempered, will have (more) daughters (than sons) and will always 
partake in an assembly. 

517 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be very illusioned, will 
divert his mind to sinful acts, be ungrateful, shameless and lazy. 

518 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will like meat, will be 
interested in bad deeds, be wicked and will not believe in Shastras. 

519 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be happy, untruthful, 
troubled and will suffer miseries on account of his bad deeds. 

520 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will not be interested in tales, 
will be interested in very bad people, will be impatient and be adverse to Vedas. 

521 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will depend on many, will be 
interested in visiting shrines, be industrious will possess good qualities, be truthful and 

kind. 

522 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 4th Bhava: will be highly 


truthful, will eat quality food, be a king, be jealous and will honour his preceptors. 


523 5tH 


524 Sun, Moon in the 5th Bhava: will not be egoistic, will be hump-backed, be dejected, 
will have evil sons, will always be subjected to much miseries and will be of bad 
disposition. 

525 Sun, Mars in the 5th Bhava: will have many sons and plurality of wives, will be 
accessible to enemies, be cruel, fearful and will always be interested in sins. 

526 Sun, Mercury in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in committing much sinful acts, will 
have all kinds of afflictions, be cruel, be forsaken by his wife and will be prone to evils. 
527 Sun, Jupiter in the Sth Bhava: will be devoid of knowledge of Vedas, will eat others’ 
food, be attached to others’ wives, be very hard in disposition and be devoid of good 
qualities. 


528 Sun, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be bereft of good qualities and vigour, will be 


miserable, conquered by enemies, will be troubled by weakness, be disinterested in Shastras 
and will be of bad mentality. 

529 Sun, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will sell articles, be grateful, interested in being virtuous, 
will be happy with wife and sons and will be ever plentiful. 

530 Moon, Mars in the 5th Bhava: will be very happy, be learned and will believe in 

God and confide in preceptors. 

531 Moon, Mercury: will be honoured, be youthful in appearance, will beget many sons and 
will respect Gods and preceptors. 

532 Moon, Jupiter: will be wounded, be favourable to Shastras, be happy by nature, be a 
Lord and will utter prayers in an undertone. 

533 Moon, Venus: will be endowed with treasures and wisdom, will always be happy, will 
have more daughters and be dear to his wife. 

534 Moon, Saturn: will be devoid of issue and happiness, be of worldly disposition, be of 
bad mind and will be rejected, as per Castraic terms. 

535 Mars, Mercury in the 5th Bhava: will be modest, will incur losses due to illusion 
regarding agricultural, be cruel, be interested in living in foreign countries and will adopt 
relatives and sons. 

536 Mars, Venus: will earn more enemies, be always insulted by mean people, be 

illusioned and will disrespect Brahmins. 

537 Mars, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have wounded limbs, be won over by ladies, be 
wicked, ungrateful, impatient and be not wealthy. 

538 Mercury, Jupiter in the 5th Bhava: will have many sons, be desirous, of success, be dear to 
women (or wife), be pleasing in appearance, be dutiful and be not greedy. 

539 Mercury, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will have auspicious speech, be interested in surprising 
acts, be respectful to Brahmins, be skillful and be resolute. 

540 Mercury, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have a defective limb, be not happy, be cruel and will 
be naturally inauspicious. 

541 Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be very fortunate, be chief among his men, will have 
many sons, be wealthy and happy. 

542 Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be very fortunate, be not good, be friendly to bad 
people, be interested in intoxicant drinks, will wear rags, be not praiseworthy and will 
indulge in unholy acts. 


543 Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have daughters, will be addicted to females, will be 


interested in sinful tales, be ungrateful, be ugly and be not praiseworthy. 

544 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 5th Bhava: will be endowed with fame, be devoid of good 
deeds, will be of loathsome disposition and will acquire physical deformity due to selfmade 
activities. 

545 Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 5th Bhava: will be very sinful, be deprived of his property, 
be relieved of his sons, be devoid of happiness, be won over by his wife and be fickleminded. 
546 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of sons, be very valorous, be 
learned, will perform good deeds, be very kind and will not be friendly. 

547 Sun, Moon, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will not have good qualities, will be interested in 
others’ money, will have more enemies and be without kindness and patience. 

548 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, mental worries and fear, 
will create nuisance to the people in the world, will be addicted to vices, will be endowed 
with sons and be not favourable to relatives. 

549 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 5th Bhava: will be troubled by severe wounds, be devoid 

of friendship, will be kind, poor, will be bereft of freedom and can guess others’ matters. 
550 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 5th Bhava: will accompany base people, be very sinful, be 
disabled, dejected, unable to donate, will hate his wife and be devoid of manliness. 

551 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of ornaments, will eat much, will 
hate people and will be refused by them and will be hard-hearted. 

552 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have sinful sons and daughters, will not be 
materialistic, will have sons bereft of education and will hate good people. 

553 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter in the Sth Bhava: will have sinful sons, will be given to anger, be 
impotent, be very sinful, will respect Brahmins, be miserable and will have miserable 
friends. 

554 Sun, Mercury, Venus: will have barren daughter, be ungrateful, will have many wives, be 
subjected to grief, be sinful and be bereft of happiness, money and food. 

555 Sun, Mercury, Saturn: will not have children and money, will have prominent belly, 
prominent buttocks, long knees and small feet. 

556 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be uncharitably disposed, will cheat others, be 
cunning, will indulge in jugglery and will be prone to hurt by arrows. 

557 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be forsaken by his relatives, be troubled by 
poverty, be interested in quarrels and be fearless. 


558 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will not be courageous, will be wicked, be a dunce 


and be interested in foreign countr ies. 

559 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 5th Bhava: will not be bold, be not masculine, will not 
have charitable mind, be interested in gambling and sexual pleasures. 

560 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 5th Bhava: will be timid, be wealthy, be short-tempered, 
will spend in bad ways, be attached to his relatives, be not wise and be very proud. 

561 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be in the company of base people, be not 
beautiful, will suffer from rheumatic pains, be not famous and will be rejected by people. 
562 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be untruthful, be not wealthy, be not 

happy, will sleep much, will have ugly friends, be wicked and fearless. 

563 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the Sth Bhava: will be interested in visiting shrines, will have 
good qualities, be virtuous and will respect his parents. 

564 Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will have stout limbs, will not be greedy, will be 
attached to others, will be relieved of sins by visiting shrines and will be worthy. 

565 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be meritorious, famous, firm and charitable, 
will have knowledge, or arts and be devoid of desires. 

566 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will have pleasing voice, will have hair touching 
the foreface, be charitable, be devoid of enemies and will have pleasing looks. 

567 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be wise and famous, will be an expert poet, be 
devoid of enemies, be very happy, be of good disposition and will have beautiful face. 

568 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have good qualities and good nature, will be 
an astrologer, will maintain his physique beautifully, will be lustful an d interested in 
listening to religious accounts. 

569 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 5th Bhava: will hold the “flag of charity” aloft (i.e. will be 
highly charitable and will say “no” to none, as karna, or Maha Bharata). will be truthful 

and will maintain only truth, will be very intelligent, be bashful, enthusiastic and 
courageous. 

570 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be bestowed with luck, will be devoid of 
mental peace, be charitable, be favourable to good people and endowed with gold, robes 
and ornaments. 

571 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will not have wife, be unkind, will not possess 
good qualities and will be with relatives. 

572 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will have good disposition, will be endowed with 


thin clothes and ornaments, will be an acknowledged person and will conquer enemies. 


573 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be kind, will know business tactics, will have 
knowledge of Vedas, will be friendly to good people, be patient and will respect God and 
teachers. 

574 Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be wicked, be shameless, be unjust, will 
forsake his wife and will be very proud. 

575 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be endowed with precious stones, will respect 
Brahmins, will have knowledge of many Shastras and will make his own place, as heavens. 
576 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will respect teachers, will learn great things, will be 
chief in his lineage and will attain good friends. 

577 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be bereft of children, will have fat body, fat 
neck, fat shoulders and thin ears, will gamble and cheat others. 

578 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will possess highly good qualities, will be endowed 
with corns, will live in others’ houses and be interested in learning Shastras. 

579 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 5th Bhava: will blame the dearest, will be against 

his elders, will be unprincipled, be shameless and be of bad disposition. 

580 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the Sth Bhava: will be bereft of sons, be immodest, 

indigent and be devoid of kindness and virtues. 

581 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will have long penes, itchy thighs, be 

poor and interested in others’ wives. 

582 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be ungrateful, be happy, will enjoy 
authority, will have mean profession and be devoid relatives. 

583 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 5th Bhava: will be very happy, will be subjected to 
sexual pressure and belongs to noble lineage, but will be unjust. 

584 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be a tale-bearer, will give up his 
religion and will hate the virtuous. 

585 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the Sth Bhava: will be unkind, unintelligible, be not 
proud, will possess ornaments and be in the company of sinners. 

586 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in chariots (i.e. 
conveyances), be immodest and will like bathing with application of scents etc. (i.e. the 
native will enjoy rich bathing conveniences, like modern appliances, costly soaps, oils, 

cream etc.) 

587 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be happy, will make futile efforts, be 


devoid of friends and sons, be dear and will perform wicked acts. 


588 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the Sth Bhava: will not be splendorous, will perform 
condemnable acts, will have vary many profession and be highly ill-tempered. 

589 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will give up his duties, be unjust, dull, 
indolent and will like ugly people. 

590 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be bereft of strength, be a thief, be 
interested in sexual stories, will serve others and be devoid of courage. 

591 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be miserable on account of wounds, 

be not virtuous and will always perform against Shastras. 

592 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have revolutionary thinking, will be 
troubled by serious diseases, will not have intelligence, be not virtuous and be without 
ears. 

593 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have defective arm., will not be 
interested in materials donated for performance of shati etc. and be subjected to vices. 

594 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be infamous, be not efficacious, be in 
the company of sinners and be hasty. 

595 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will perform blame worthy acts, will be 
interested in bad females and in serving bad people, be not famous, be unkind and will 
hate Brahmins. 

596 Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be insulted by others, will wear rags, will 
be impure, will have untimely food and will be troubled by poverty at all times. 

597 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of interest in meritorious acts, 
will not be intelligent, be interested in studying unworthy books and be impartial. 

598 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 5th Bhava: will be wise, learned, interested in 
Vedas etc., will conquer his enemies and will be of friendly disposition. 

599 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be fortunate, learned, modest and 
will be skillful. 

600 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be immodest, will be interested in his 
own religion, will be courageous, charitable and highly respectable. 

601 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will have wounds (itches etc.), will 

protect Brahmins, be of good qualities and be famous for self respect. 

602 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will like cold things, will know the 
meaning of various Shastras, will be proud, be a poet and be liked by people. 


603 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will help people, will befriend many, will 


have various ornaments, be patient and will be connected with religious activities. 

604 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be endowed with sons and wealth, will 
be rich with application of sandal, saffron etc. and robes and ornaments, will have 

abundant riches and will enjoy happiness through children. 

605 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will uphold truth, be modest, will be very 
charitable and be honoured by the learned. 

606 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be broad minded, will conquer his five 
senses, will like cleanliness, be good-looking, be endowed with fortune and courage and be 
not greedy. 

607 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be worshipped by kings, will be 
interested in S a stras and religion and be endowed with sons and wealth. 

608 O DQ gal, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will have knowledge of the Supreme 
Spirit, will have satisfied mind and be dear to king. 

609 O DQ gal, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have beautiful body, be free from 
desires, will have principles, be chief in his lineage, be intelligent and pure. 

610 O DQ gal, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be broad minded, will observe 
virtues, be expert in father’s assignments, be patient and will like all people. 

611 0 DQ gal, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be good in arts, will know the 
meanings of Vedas, will have quadrupeds, be very pure and famous. 

612 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will have abundant wealth, learning and 
virtues. 

613 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 5th Bhava: will have ugly and dirty 

physique, will be endowed with children and suffer from many blemishes. 

614 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be sexually passionate, will 

have knowledge of mathematics and will be troubled by serious diseases. 

615 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be eunuch, will have no 
knowledge of letters (i.e. illiterate), be devoid of vedic and Castraic learning, be hardhearted 
and be not virtuous. 

616 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: be devoid of Lakshmi, be very 

short tempered, will wander in vain and will possess relatives. 

617 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in befriending 

bad people, will have external show, or courtesy, will not have good history and be bereft 


of truth and honour. 


618 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of relatives, sons, 
wealth and happiness, be interested in gambling and be inimical. 

619 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will have a wife bereft of good 
character, will be forsaken by his relatives, will be perished by Gods and Brahmins and be 
impatient. 

620 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be of bad disposition, be 
forsaken by his relatives and will be inimically disposed to good people. 

621 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will spend on bad deeds, will have 
self-made evils, will be troubled by expenses, be unkind and be interested in sinful acts. 
622 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, sons, 
honour and splendour and be subjected to misery. 

623 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will suffer from marital blemish, 
be sick and timid will make futile efforts. 

624 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be a dunce, be forsaken by his 
wife, will be of pleased disposition and will fear war, or quarrels. 

625 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be shameless, will win over 
good people, will lose his father, be a drunkard and be ungrateful. 

626 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will suffer from diseases of head, 
will have wounds on the body and be devoid of wealth and honour. 

627 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will suffer from diseases of eye, be 
given to severe anger, be ugly and will always wear rags. 

628 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will not be enthusiastic, be very 
wicked and will face evils by unnecessary talks. 

629 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be very valorous, be free from 
vices, be a lord, be respectable, will be endowed with sons and wealth, will conquer his five 
senses and be famous. 

630 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be wicked, be beyond 
assessment, will have abundant wealth and be affectionate to his children. 

631 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be an expert in minerals, 
mercury and water equipment and will become famous in such dealings. 

632 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be widely famous, be chief 
among his relatives and race-men, be modest will be endowed with ornaments and will 


control his mind greatly. 


633 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be and eloquent speaker, be 
modest and be endowed with mercy, charitability and truth. 

634 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 5th Bhava: will be subjected to penury 
and grief, be mean minded, be of thieving disposition and be rash in speech. 

635 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be chief in his race, be 
inimically disposed to the public, will possess much distressed a body and be forsaken by 
his relatives. 

636 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will honour guests, will have 
broad and beautiful eyes, will practice penance and be justly disposed. 

637 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, 
will live in foreign places and will be able to guess others’ mind. 

638 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be cruel, wicked, be 
devoid of wicked people’s company and be attached to sons, friends and meritorious acts. 
639 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will not be efficacious, will 
hate women, will lose wealth and will be honoured by enemies (i.e. will not be troubled by 
them). 

640 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be highly interested in 
the Supreme Spirit, be chief, wealthy and amiable to relatives. 

641 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 5th Bhava: will be interested in 
the knowledge of the Supreme Spirit, be dear to his relatives, be happy, skillful in all arts 


and be a heard. 


642 61TH 


643 Sun, Moon: will have ugly face, be poor, short-lived, will suffer from diseases, will 
always have desires and will be free from enemies. 

644 Sun, Man gal in the 6th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will destroy enemies, will 
attain success in war and will enjoy wide fame. 

645 Sun, Mercury in the 6th Bhava: will be endowed with great riches, be famous for his 
abundant wealth, be fearless and dear to king. 

646 Sun, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be sickly disposed, short-lived, will have more 
enemies and be devoid of friends. 


647 Sun, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by serious diseases, be shameless, be 


devoid of wealth, be ugly, subjected to utter misery and will be worried. 

648 Sun, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be free from sickness and sin, will be very wise, be 
endowed with weapon and wealth, will have servants and will be of good nature. 

649 Moon, Mars in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by diseases, will lose his intellect, be 
splendouruos, be unfortunate and will face killing (be killed) and be imprisoned. 

650 Moon, Mercury in the 6th Bhava: will be forsake by the people of his race and by his 
relatives, will not be very rich, will have a bad wife, be timid and cuing. 

651 Moon, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of intelligence and long life, will develop 
defects in limbs due to sickness and be devoid of desires and good qualities. 

652 Moon, Ckr in the 6th Bhava: will have a accomplished physique, will be defeated by 
enemies, be interested in sinful acts, will have balanced expenditure and will have bad 
character. 

653 Moon, Cni in the 6th Bhava: will have bad mentality, be timid, unintelligent, will have 

a distressed body, be ugly and be devoid of sexual desires. 

654 Maial, Mercury in the 6th Bhava: will have bad mentality, be timid, unintelligent, will 
have a distressed body, be ugly and be devoid of sexual desires. 

655 Mars, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will have few sons, be of wicked disposition, be 

insulted by others, will not observe any religious conduct, be uncharitable and intent upon 
promoting quarrels. 

656 Mars, Venus: will be interested in women, be conquered by women, be interested in 
sinful acts, be intelligent, wicked and will not possess Castraic learning. 

657 Mars, Saturn: will have firm mental disposition, will have hard (strong) limbs, will 
conquer his enemies, be an expert in moral merits. 

658 Mercury, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be lazy, devoid of intelligence, troubled by kings, 
wealthy and interested in sexual acts. 

659 Mercury, Venus: will have many conveyances, be happy, very valorous, dear to people, 
liked by women and be highly skillful. 

660 Mercury, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will have many enemies, be sickly disposed, be devoid of 
strength and will like others, but not his own men. 

661 Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be interested in sexual acts, be fickle-minded about 
ladies, be addicted to liquor, be ungrateful, sinful and will cheat. 

662 Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be forsaken by wife, be sick, be devoid of truth and 


wealth, be interested in unethical deeds and be always miserable. 


663 Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be very valorous, will be endowed with wealth, 
fortune and happiness, will have strength (perfection) of all limbs and will destroy 
enemies. 

664 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 6th Bhava: will be of mean disposition, will have ugly 
mentality, be troubled by diseases, will cheat others, be unkind and will be in the company 
of bad people. 

665 Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 6th Bhava: will be sinful, given to anger, will have disloyal 
servants, be devoid of wealth and grains, will fear and be ruthless. 

666 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will experience various miseries, will be forsaken 
by children, wife and servants, will have mean profession and no wealth. 

667 Sun, Moon, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be mean, strong, egoistic, of ugly mentality, 
devoid of affection. 

668 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be sinful, be not attached to people, will have 
hard legs, be fearful and hasty. 

669 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 6th Bhava: be sinful, not attached to people, will have 
various kids of wealth, will conquer his enemies, will have many friends and be devoid of 
war (quarrel) etc. 

670 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be brave, be interested in Shastras, will 
conquer his five senses. 

671 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will have various kids of happiness, be dear to 
women, be expert in always enjoying sexual pleasures, be very rich and just. 

672 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will enjoy laded property, will have pure body 

(in.e. defectless body), will possess horses, elephants and wealth, be very skillful and will 
do meritorious acts. 

673 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be sensuous, be interested in acts of blemish, 
will not have religious faith, be bereft of good nature and mercy and will cheat. 

674 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will experience various kids of blemishes, be very 
hard-hearted and be devoid of truth, mercy, shame and intelligence. 

675 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be bereft of beauty (good appearance), sons 
and wife, will always perform evil acts, be fearful in appearance, be exceedingly in 
temperament and be a skillful speaker. 

676 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be exceedingly greedy, will possess gold, robe 


and ornaments, be ugly in appearance and will be devoid of intelligence. 


677 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be clever in performance, will be interested in 
singing, will have several enjoyments and be interested in digging tasks and wells. 

678 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be dear to good people, will be a eloquent 
speaker, be interested in Shastras, be skillful, be highly learned and will have knowledge of 
Shastras. 

679 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 6th Bhava: will experience various measures of miseries, 
be untruthful, be intelligent, will eat other’s food and be able to guess about others’ mid. 
680 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of truth and wealth, will be very 
much wounded because of empty, will lose courage and will be devoid of lordship. 

681 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be poor, be bereft of relatives, will have the 
nature to remain pleased, be dear to his workmen and be troubled by the three 
temperaments, in.e. wind, phlegm and bile. 

682 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will experience of loss of children, will go for 
empty, will have injured body, will have desires, be defeated and listless towards Shastras. 
683 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be short-lived, distressed, devoid of Castraic 
learning, interested in blaming others and be a atheist. 

684 Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be subjected to various diseases, be little 
efficacious, be bereft ow wife and be always troubled by poverty. 

685 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by miseries, will possess sexual 
desires, be not interested in helping others, be not virtuous and be poor. 

686 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be naturally a sinner, will lose money on 
account of religious observances, will become infamous, be very mean and be blamed by 
relatives. 

687 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be bereft of intelligence, be very miserable, 
cruel, cuing and devoid of self-respect. 

688 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be very miserable, be devoid of wisdom, 
learning and modesty and be troubled. 

689 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be courageous, will conquer his enemies, 
will not be mean minded, ie broad minded, will hold the flag of virtue aloft and be sinless. 
690 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will speak truth, will be of good disposition, will 
possess gold, precious stones, lad and Castraic wisdom. 

691 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will have various kids of enjoyments, will control 


his five senses, be wealthy, very beautiful, attached to his wife and will blame others. 


692 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will have good conduct, be dear to people will 
possess high degree of knowledge of Shastras, be justly disposed and will be liked by many. 
693 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be sick, be bereft of parents (in.e. will lose 
them early), be fiercely disposed, be interested in sinful acts and be subjected to 
blemishes. 

694 0 DQ gal, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be kindly disposed, be dear to women, be 
interested in others’ jobs, will follow good people and be virtuous. 

695 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will make one conquer enemies, famous, valorous 
and influencial in general. 

696 Mercury, Jupiter, Cni in the 6th Bhava: will have on sons, will be fettered, will be black 
complexioned, will wear rags, will be devoid of good history and will be against justice. 

697 Mercury, Ckr, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be very poor, be not valorous and will hate 
Shastras, preceptors and Brahmis. 

698 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will have a emaciated body, be unkind, unjust, poor 
and over-anxious and will dislike the virtuous. 

699 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 6th Bhava: will always have distressed mid, will 

make futile efforts, will experience sickness and fear, will have ugly eyes and wicked mid. 
700 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will have big teeth, big eyes and big 

one, be shameless and will always be filled with fear. 

701 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will have a clean physique, be devoid of 
vedic learning, be fettered, over-anxious and harsh in speech. 

702 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will have injured limbs, be troubled, be 

not splendouruos, will cheat others, be restless and will be won over by the fair sex. 

703 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be a eunuch, dunce, simpleton, be 
very timid and be insulted by one and all. 

704 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will suffer contortion on account of 
various diseases, be interested in others’ food and will have little friendship. 

705 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be interested in bad deeds and 
untruth, will invite risks and be a simpleton. 

706 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will not be famous, be interested in others’ 
wives, will be very unkind and will cheat others. 

707 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will have a emaciated body, will join 


foolish persons, will be fettered, or killed, will have mean profession and will be of very 


bad disposition. 

708 Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will indulge in bad acts, be devoid of 
honour of Gods, preceptors and Brahmins, be insulted by others and be hard-hearted. 

709 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will destroy his enemies, be courageous, 
skillful in speech, worshiped by the king, interested in good qualities and will be endowed 
with intelligence. 

710 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be very kid, will have a equally grow 
up physique, be a eloquent speaker, be courageous and dear to Brahmis. 

711 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be dear to virtuous, courageous, 
conceit-manifested, fierce in appearance, happily disposed and dear to all. 

712 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will have agriculture, as chief profession, 

be principled, will be a good consultant on Mantras and be dear to king. 

713 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be of wicked disposition, be dear to 

his me and will be endowed with splendour and fame. 

714 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be skillful, will join and assembly of 
skillful me, be famous, amicable to elders and will always be interested in meritorious acts. 
715 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be principal among intelligent people, 
will conquer his enemies, will possess a beautiful body and will be sweetly disposed. 

716 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will have noble notions, be not intelligent, 
will have Castraic knowledge, fame and conveyances. 

717 Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will visit shrines, will vary anxious, be dear 
to good people and interested in learning. 

718 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will be capable of 
bestowing (or giving away freely anything asked for, like the Divine Kapla Tree), be 

skillful, very efficacious and be well placed. 

719 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be highly learned, be interested in 
women, will possess wealth and be justly disposed. 

720 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth be defective 
limbed and attached to people. 

721 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by sickness, be 
interested in living in foreign countries, will have wicked disposition, be sexually troubled 
and will have a emaciated body. 


722 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, be of hard 


disposition and be averse to Shastras. 

723 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be subjected to penury, be devoid of 
pleasures, will always have enemies, be bad and fickle minded. 

724 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be untruthful, be excessively windy in 
temperament, will be in the company of bad people, be unkind and hard-hearted. 

725 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be short-lived, will be physically 
troubled, be shameless and be intent on committing sinful acts. 

726 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be of bad nature, be interested in 
religious principles, be of cuing disposition and will hate his teacher. 

727 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will depend on others, be wickedly 
disposed, forsake by his wife, hard hearted and commit sin. 

728 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will deserve hatred be, cruel, devoid of so 
and wife, will follow his promised and will be troubled by sexual feelings. 

729 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be sportive in spirit, pleasing to eyes, 
dear to king and proudly disposed. 

730 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be broad minded, be pleasing to eyes, 
dear to king, proud, unkind and virtuous. 

731 Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will worship Fire God, will be interested in 
sacrifices, observances and worships. and will ear merits by visiting shrines. 

732 Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be courageous, be a skillful astrologer 
and will be famous in performing religious sacrifices. 

733 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be charitable, dirty in disposition and 
will be conquered by females. 

734 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 6th Bhava: will be ugly, immodest, will be 
troubled by others and will cheat others. 

735 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be highly short-tempered, be 

a top-class tale-bearer and a thief, be ungrateful, be interested in making enemies and be 
miserable. 

736 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will suffer from venereal diseases, 
will steal and be averse to good people. 

737 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be interested in bad deeds, 

will lose wealth will have knowledge of Tantras and will suffer from diseases of mouth, or 


face. 


738 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: have diseases of head, will suffer 
from fever, be not wise and be very ugly. 

739 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of courage, be a 

dunce and be bereft of wisdom and learning. 

740 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of splendour, be not 
out-spoke, be devoid of wealth and be interested in meritorious acts. 

741 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will wear rags, will suffer from metal 
distress, will be wounded, be not truthful, be disabled and indigent. 

742 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be hard-hearted, sinful, cruel, 
will violate people and will not be successful in his undertakings. 

743 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, sons and 
principles and will be conquered by base persons. 

744 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of kindness, will 

have prodigal sons, be distressed and subjected to diseases. 

745 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be shameless, unkind, will join 
base me and will acquire diseases. 

746 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be troubled by wounds, be 
devoid of truth and purity, be not of good nature and be diseased. 

747 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be hated by people, be devoid 

of self-respect, be a simpleton, be interested in bad acts and devoid of conduct. 

748 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be devoid of sons, be interested 
in others’ women, be very poor and cruel. 

749 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be of 
dirty disposition, be libidinous and be not virtuous. 

750 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will suffer from stragary (painful 
discharge of urine), be bereft of wife, be dirty and lazy. 

751 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be mentally distressed right 
from birth, will have surprising windy diseases (in.e. difficult to be cured), be ungrateful 

and unprincipled. 

752 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be forsake by people, be 
interested in others’ wives, be sinful and intent upon living in others countries. 

753 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will have more enemies, be devoid of 


so and wife, be interested in money and be lazy. 


754 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be bereft of Castraic learning, 
sons and wealth and be forsake by all. 

755 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 6th Bhava: will have trembling hands 

and legs, will do base deeds, be fearful and conquered by enemies. 

756 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be very miserable, be a 
drukardd, be devoid of shoulders (in.e. drooped etc.) and will not have robes and 

ornaments. 

757 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will not be splendouruos, be 
ill-natured and be unprincipled. 

758 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will not be patient, will 

cheat, be sick and be conquered by wicked people. 

759 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be of crooked disposition, 
be unkind, be very poor, be devoid of wife and relatives and will destroy the king (i.e. will 
prove ominous to the king). 

760 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be of wandering 
disposition and be highly intelligent. 

761 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be of wicked disposition, 
be immodest, will wader unfruitfully and be bereft of self-respect. 

762 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 6th Bhava: will be truthful, just, 


virtuous, skillful, wealthy and famous. 


763 71TH 


764 Sun, Moon: will be distressed, be hasty, not virtuous and highly cunning. 

765 Sun, Mars in the 7th Bhava: will be interested in others’ wives, be not charitable, 

be troubled by huger, attached to preceptors and Brahmins and be cruel. 

766 Sun, Mercury: will have a insincere wife, will be a eunuch, be devoid of sexual 
happiness, be unfruitful (not result manifesting) and be endowed with relatives. 

767 Sun, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will have little happiness, be harsh in speech, will 
depend on others for food and grow and be miserable. 

768 Sun, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will eat others’ food, be interested in serving others, be 
devoid of relatives, be distressed and indigent. 


769 Sun, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of conjugal pleasures, will have a wicked 


wife, will ear more enemies, be troubled by diseases and be wrought by fear. 

770 Moon, Mars in the 7th Bhava: will suffer from stomachial disorders, be devoid of 
learning, be fierce and will acquire fear due to his aims and illicit intercourse. 

771 Moon, Mercury: will have numerous sons and wife, be fickle-minded, be devoid of truth 
and mercy and be dear to relatives. 

772 Moon, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will learn many Shastras, will have many friends, be 
beautiful and be worshiped by the king. 

773 Moon, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will acquire a auspicious wife, will enjoy various kids of 
wealth and pleasures, be very happy and intelligent. 

774 Moon, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be sickly disposed, be very timid, be interested in 
carnal pleasures, be cruel, will have servants and be interested in others’ wives. 

775 Mars, Mercury in the 7th Bhava: will be of crooked disposition, will cheat, be not 
splendorous and be defective limbed. 

776 Mars, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will be interested in joining base people, will wander 
fruitlessly, will have injured, or afflicted body on account of sin. 

777 Mars, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be rejected by people, will be troubled by bloodoozig 
body, be insulted by others and be unjustly disposed. 

778 Mars, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will suffer from various diseases, will have an 

emaciated body will promote quarrels, will do wicked acts and will be highly beautiful. 

779 Mercury, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will have high metal latitude, be proud, fickle-minded, 
distressed, be a sped-thrift and be troubled by sexual feelings. 

780 Mercury, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will acquire a virtuous wife, will have physical comforts 
and happiness, be unkind and be ungrateful to wife. 

781 Mercury, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will have a wicked wife, be physically troubled on 
account of sex, will have vices, be insulted by others and be not virtuous. 

782 Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will house various diseases, will have strange voice and 
auspicious body, be cruel, praiseworthy, famous and pious of God and Brahmins. 

783 Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be conquered by women will misappropriate 
women’s wealth, be devoid of truth and wealth, be a liar and sier. 

784 Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will have many enemies, will eat unpalatable foods, will 
violate others’ beds, be shameless and will nourish others. 

785 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 7th Bhava: will have physical troubles out of sickness, be 


fickle-minded, will suffer from sexual distress, be not virtuous and will be won over by 


women. 

786 Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of sos, will join base women, will 
be hard in disposition, be troubled and be sensuous. 

787 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will incur diseases, will not be firm in regard to 
females, be cruel and sinfully disposed. 

788 Sun, Moon, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be deprived of wife, will have hatred, anger 
and enmity, will live in foreign countries and be inimical to preceptors. 

789 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be wicked, interested in the next world, frank 
and will have knowledge of Justice. 

790 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of efficacy and pleasure, be 
interested in eating others’ food, will depend on others and be sinful. 

791 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will be insulted by others, will join base me, be 
interested in bad deeds and will not adopt religious observances. 

792 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be bereft of distinction, be not kind., be 
sinfully inclined, be full of diseases, be not learned and be unwise. 

793 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will possess and ugly physique, will have a wife 
devoid of character, will be of bad mentality, be ungrateful, fear-filled, emaciated due to 
libidinous nature and cruel in disposition. 

794 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will be of bad nature, be fear stricken, be forsake 
by elders, be not kind, be unwealthy and will wear rags. 

795 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be inclined to join base me, be merciless, be 
interested in stealing, will have a mean wife, will not have profane knowledge derived 
from worldly experience, but be intelligent. 

796 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will have ugly body, over anxious, interested in his 
mean wife, fear-stricke, will watch for weak points and be wicked. 

797 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be unkind, will incur disease after disease, be 
forsake by his wife, will join base me and will not trust in Shastras. 

798 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will have a dejected wife, will not be attached to 
people, be poor in mentality and will tremble with fear. 

799 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be libidinous, be very happy, be skillful in 
having sexual enjoyments, will conquer senses and will join charitable people. 

800 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 7th Bhava: will be ugly, be scholarly, poor, cruel, will lose 


his wife and knowledge. 


801 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will be helpful, truthful, will have a skillful wife, 
be interested in war and will always be inclined towards sexual enjoyment. 

802 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will wear rags, be fierce, be not attached to the 
virtuous, be hard-hearted and will do blame-worthy acts. 

803 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be interested in good company, be outspoke, 
interested in Vedas and be favourable to preceptors and Gods. 

804 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will enjoy abundant pleasures, will speak 
eloquently, be interested in women and in Shastras and be a expert warrior. 

805 Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will perform meritorious acts, be honourable, 
good-natured and modest. 

806 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be rich, will be endowed with food, grains and 
belief and will have many sons. 

807 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will perform meritorious acts, will be dear to 
women, be fearless, virtuous and famous. 

808 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be worshiped eve by Indra (i.e. will be so 
superior and divine a personage), will have knowledge of Mantras, will possess elephants 
and horses, will conquer his senses and will visit shrines. 

809 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be skillful in achieving carnal pleasures, will be 
great in Castraic knowledge, will acquire wealth, will make distinct progress, be virtuous 
and will use money for good deeds. 

810 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will be great, be meritorious in acts, be 
worshiped by enemies, be jealous and dear to good people. 

811 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be subjected to troubles, will lose his 
wealth, be interested in eating meat, be very bad in disposition, will kill (i.e. be a butcher, 
murderer etc.) and be famous. 

812 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: not give in the text. 

813 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will have broad eyes, be bashful will be 
endowed with fame and happiness, adbe amiable to Brahmins. 

814 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be very short-tempered, be highly inimical, 
be devoid of luck, be troubled by diseases and will join bad people. 

815 Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be auspicious, be devoid of intelligence, will 
be a good servant in royal administration, be free from enemies, be just and honoured by 


his relatives. 


816 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be chief among kings, be very wealthy, very 
happy, be endowed with a virtuous wife and be dear to people. 

817 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be famous, will be endowed with several kids 
of wealth, Castraic acquaintance and palaces and be highly meritorious. 

818 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be worshiped by the king, will conquer his 
enemies, will enjoy laded properties and wealth, be always meritorious, noble and skillful. 
819 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be endowed with quadrupeds, be truthful, will 
have frequent movements (from place to place), will have good nature and be attached to 
Brahmins. 

820 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of valour, be unkind, 
interested in sinful stories, will make futile efforts and will be highly short-tempered. 

821 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, kind, will 

have many wives and many sos and be friendly in disposition. 

822 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be bereft of wife, interested in 

blaming others, will speak little truth (in.e. sometimes truthful and sometimes not), be 
hard-hearted and be not inclined towards charity. 

823 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will have a wicked wife, be bereft of 

sons, be cruel, will perform meritorious acts be pretentious in disposition. 

824 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will have many wives, will be of false 
disposition and be blame worthy. 

825 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will face many difficulties due to bad wife, 
be very impetuous and be phlegmatic. 

826 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be attached to bad people, will visit 
prostitutes, be sinful, ungrateful, be troubled by bilious complaints, be wicked and be 
unintelligible. 

827 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be dirty, will perform on-Castraic acts, 
be intent on living in foreign places a be not wise. 

828 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of sons, will be a great liar, 
will have a emaciated body and be interested in promoting quarrels. 

829 Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be night-blind, be fierce, be subjected 
to much anguish, will experience evils, will lose wealth, be interested in vedic learning and 
be of mean mind. 


830 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will be always subjected to troubles, will 


have thin body and will be mentally troubled due to wife’s blemish. 

831 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will possess and ugly wife, will be of bad 
character, be adverse to Shastras, be devoid of sons and good principles. 

832 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will make one a army chief, a king’s 
minister, do base acts and libidinous. 

833 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be unkind, be interested in sexual 
accounts, be cuing, be a drunkard and will acquire bad, or mean learning. 

834 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be bereft of wife, be inimical to 
others, will promote quarrels and will be highly afflicted. 

835 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of money, devoid of shame, 
be harsh in disposition, be notoriously sinful (i.e. well-known for his bad deeds) and be 
interested in his own people. 

836 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be of pretentious 
disposition, be fond of meat and be defeated by enemies. 

837 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, will have on 
knowledge of vedas and other Shastras, will be unfortunate and will promote quarrels. 
838 Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will give good face, facial beauty, truthful 
disposition and virtue. 

839 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be give to much anger, be harsh in 
disposition, be devoid of wealth and sons and will cheat others. 

840 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will perform auspicious acts, be 
beautiful, will have pleased mid and be a lord. 

841 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will possess a good-looking wife, be 
himself good looking, will have many sons and be just. 

842 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be very courageous, be liberal in 
acts, be intelligent and be respectful to Brahmins and Gods. 

843 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be free from jealousy, be principled 
devoid of principles be charitable and skillful. 

844 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will possess beautiful appearance, be 
dear to women, will have beautiful and broad eyes, be eloquent in speech and be dear to 
kings. 

845 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be liked by good people, be truthful, 


endowed with wisdom, be skillful, be devoid of fear and be unjust. 


846 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be dear to guests, be charitable, be of 
good disposition, be greatly truthful and will respect preceptors. 

847 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be liked by virtuous people, will have 
sons, be charitable, pleased, will have beautiful wife and be intelligent. 

848 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be modest, will face obstacles in his 
undertakings (will have checkered career), will be highly intelligent, be skillful and will 
destroy his enemies. 

849 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be highly bashful, will have sons and 
wife, will control his senses and will have a physique devoid of ‘evils’ (This will mean, that 

the native does not commit evils, or sin). 

850 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be full of fortunes, be honoured, be 
akin to a king, will confer auspiciousness and be truthful. 

851 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will have many wives, will hold the flag of 
virtue aloft, be truthful, happy, merciful and will destroy others. 

852 Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be interested in achieving distinction, 
will have beautiful body, will be very wealth and fortunate, be good looking, be chief 

among his me and be modest. 

853 Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be highly valorous, famous, strong will 
have auspicious limbs and be free from pains. 

854 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will acquire a skillful wife, be free from 
enemies and be just. 

855 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 7th Bhava: will be a eunuch, be ugly, be evilminded 
and harsh. 

856 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be dull-witted, troubled by 
phlegmatic disorders, be unintelligible, be loathsome and will have a bad wife. 

857 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will have bad daughters and bad 
sons, will have a emaciated body, will maintain speechlessness and will perform 

uncharitable acts. 

858 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be unsteady about females, 
interested in sexual accounts, be timid in nature and will have many blemishes. 

859 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of splendour, will 

be a chief cheat, be negligent of high order and will be inimical to people. 


860 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be highly jealous, be troubled 


by high sexual feelings, will have a inimical wife and will be unintelligible. 

861 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: the native will be merciless, will lose 
his wife and children, will eat much and be harsh in speech. 

862 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of fame, will cheat 
others, will have many enemies and will guess others’ mind. 

863 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will have evil notions, will enjoy 
conveyances, will have cardiac diseases and will be friendly to all. 

864 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be unkind, will eat others’ food, 
be mean and will have a wicked wife. 

865 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will not be splendorous, be 

devoid of wealth, sons and gratitude and be hard-hearted. 

866 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be shameless, will not study 
Vedas, will like sinful acts, will by nature join base me and be sickly. 

867 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be foolish, be fond of childish 
acts, be miserly and of bad disposition. 

868 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be poor, will have vices, be very 
timid in disposition and will hate his relatives. 

869 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava:: will have a very wicked wife, will be 
immodest, will be at all times hunger-stricken and be devoid of intelligence. 

870 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be very kind, be justly 
disposed, be truthful, dear to good men and will acquire a virtuous wife. 

871 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: be disposed charitably, be dear to 
women and be eloquent in speech. 

872 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be patient in disposition, will 
have good conduct, be praiseworthy intelligent and will like his relatives. 

873 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will show interest in shrines, be 
worshiped by kings and will be served by many. 

874 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will show interest in shrines, be 
worshiped by kings and will be served by many. 

875 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of enmity, be 
interested in giving charities and will be well-praised by virtuous people. 

876 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 7th Bhava: will be devoid of truth and 


wealth, be troubled by diseases and will be distressed due to royal troubles. 


877 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be a servant, will suffer 
from serious diseases, will wear rags and will indulge in cheating. 

878 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be troubled by diseases, 
be indolent and will have a wicked wife and will have a troubled physique. 

879 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be miserable, be 
immodest, troubled by huger and will incur good results out of fear. 

880 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be unsuccessful, 
unfriendly, unhappy, will do fierce deeds and be miserly. 

881 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be interested inn others’ 
women, be troubled by others and will lack intelligence. 

882 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be kingly, beautiful, 
very wealthy and be always happy. 

883 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 7th Bhava: will be an emperator, 


be very famous and be very valorous, be virtuous and be liked by all. 


884 8tH 


885 Sun, Moon in the 8th Bhava: will be very sickly, short-lived, friendly, happy, 

shameless and be timid in war (not bold in quarrels, disputes, uptake). 

886 Sun, Mars in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from complaints of blood, be unsteady, be 
interested in sinful acts, be devoid of friends, will lack mental vigour and wealth. 

887 Sun, Mercury in the 8th Bhava: will have bad mentality, will grow on others’ food, live 
in foreign countries, be devoid of valour and be free from enemies. 

888 Sun, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of self-respect, be wicked, be interested 
in other man’s wife and be devoid of intelligence. 

889 Sun, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will have money, earned in bad ways, be ugly, will be 
interested in bad place, will eat the food of a bad king (will earn money through a corrupt 
employer), will have bad profession and will be conquered. 

890 Sun, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will have excess phlegm in temperament, be highly 
rheumatic, be devoid of truth and passion and will always like to earn from foreign places. 
891 Moon, Mars in the 8th Bhava: will have bad disposition, be troubled by diseases, 
miserable, unsuccessful and be able to guess others. 


892 Moon, Mercury in the 8th Bhava: will have wicked mentality, be troubled by diseases, be 


like a eunuch, be fraudulent, will suffer from a serious disease and be a miser. 

893 Moon, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of meritorious acts, be short-lived, poor, 
foolish, crippled and will have bad company. 

894 Moon, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be of blame-worthy disposition, be timid, sinful and 
will blame others. 

895 Moon, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be desirous of receiving the mercy of bad people, 
will have futile illusion, be happy; peaceful, and will be given up by his wife. 

896 Mars, Mercury in the 8th Bhava: will look old in your itself, be ungrateful and will have 
harmful notions. 

897 Mars, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will have illegal money, be poor, base, will have many 
enemies, be defeated and be miser. 

898 Mars, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be desirous of doing bad acts, be untruthful, will 

lose money out of mercy, be not valorous and be a dunce. 

899 Mars, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be ugly, be issueless, will have a very wicked wife, 

be devoid of intelligence and virtue ad will live in foreign countries. 

900 Mercury, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of relatives, will loss wisdom, will cheat 
and will suffer misery on account of bad company. 

901 Mercury, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will have a polluted physique, be unjust, will eat others’ 
food and serve others. He will have knowledge of the atom. 

902 Mercury, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will have many aims, will be sinfully disposed, will be a 
tale-beared and be devoid of intelligence. 

903 Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will have many enemies, make enmity without purpose, 
have few children and will not be interested in Shastras. 

904 Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be bereft of grains and wealth, will be very inimical, 
be troubled and be very wicked. 

905 Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will join others’ wives, will eat others’ food, will serve 
others, will always tell lies and be unjust. 

906 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 8th Bhava: will be untruthful, be not in the company of 

rich men, be not himself rich, be fierce, devoid of good qualities, be very miserable and 

will join bad people. 

907 Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 8th Bhava: will be a destitute, or be mean, be of bad mental 
disposition, be not splendorous, will join very base men, mean-minded, sick and sinful. 


908 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be sinful, dear to wicked people, will make 


futile efforts, be interested in drinks (intoxicants) and tales, be devoid of friends and will 
acquire an excellent wife. 

909 Sun, Moon, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, will do bad acts, be 
very short-tempered, immodest, interested in others’ food ad will cheat. 

910 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be untruthful, indigent, be lazy, sleepy, 
miserable, devoid of valour and be very timid. 

911 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of friends, be poor, will have 
rags, will join rich men, will be interested in liquor and be devoid of friendliness. 

912 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of truth and fame, be vividly 
miserable, be a miser, troubled by heavy expenditure and sexual feelings. 

913 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be impure, unfriendly, very efficacious, 

timid and infamous. 

914 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from diseases, will have enemies, be 
not virtuous, be very ill-tempered and be bereft of his men. 

915 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be shameless, will blame the people, will be 
bereft of religion and profession, be not efficacious, be unkind and not happy. 

916 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will do various kind of acts, will destroy enemies, 
be valorous, will enjoy happiness from children, will indulge vicious acts and will acquire 
abundant grains. 

917 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be miserable due to diseases, be not famous 
and be a cheat. 

918 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be endowed with money and grains, be 
happy, will be highly skillful in many kinds of speech, be kind and meritorious in acts. 
919 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be subjected to many diseases, will deviate 
from the path of religion, be not virtuous, be argumentative and be devoid of relatives. 
920 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be very miserable. 

921 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 8th Bhava: will inflict harm to the king. 

922 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from hunger and thirst and will be 
after sexual pleasures. 

923 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be happy and will be favourable to the 
king. 

924 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from various kinds of diseases. 


925 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be at logger heads with his wife. 


926 Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be a recipient of royal favours, but will be 
bereft of money and corn. 

927 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will have a number of enemies. 

928 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be very happy and will possess a good wife. 
929 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be after the women of other men. 

930 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will lose his wife and be devoid of intelligence. 
931 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will acquire many diseases on account of 
misdeeds of his own. 

932 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will have abundant money earned through 
thieves. 

933 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from leprosy, much misery and much 
penury. 

934 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will acquire diseases and poverty through many 
people. 

935 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will destroy many of his enemies. 

936 Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will on his own increase his diseases. 

937 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will obtain destruction of wealth and grains. 
938 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be sickly and be skillful in imprisoning and 
killing. 

939 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will acquire many diseases. 

940 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be highly miserable. 

941 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 8th Bhava: will suffer acute penury. 

942 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will suffer great grief. 

943 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be modest at all times, will join base 
females, will get bad sons and bad (illegal) money, will have bad qualities, will be very illtempered 
and very wicked. 

944 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of children, will have bad 
qualities, will be ugly, be insulted and be unintelligible. 

945 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will not have skillful mentality, will be 
troubled by hunger, be shameless and be unsuccessful. 

946 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be fond of gambling, be bereft of 
money, will live in foreign countries and be inimical to the society. 


947 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of pleasures, will be 


forsaken by preceptors, will have a stout body and be mean in disposition. 

948 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will have no accomplishment, be unkind 
and be interested in the virtuous. 

949 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be violent, be not valorous, be bereft 
of intelligence and wealth, be always sick, timid and be subjected to difficulties. 

950 Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be wicked in speech, be interested in 
great sins, will join base men and will be troubled by enemies. 

951 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be miserable, will have low 
professions, will acquire a bad wife and will have affliction to limbs due to sexual 
indulgence. 

952 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will lose parents, be truthfully disposed 
and be indolent. 

953 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be fickleminded, treacherous, will 
have bad friends, will have no accomplishment and be devoid of wealth. 

954 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be very timid, be troubled by sex, be 
wicked and will have money earned in bad ways. 

955 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be sick, bereft of wealth, shortlived 
and untruthful. 

956 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will befriend bad people, be interested 
in bad deeds, be devoid of good conduct and be harsh in speech. 

957 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will like to do bad deeds, will give up his 
people and be with others, be unwise, be not virtuous and will have no Castric knowledge. 
958 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be endowed with sons, be happy, 
will conquer his enemies, be wise and wealthy. 

959 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be devoid of sons and happiness, be 
against his enemies (i.e. may not pardon his enemies), will harm his friends, be sickly and 
poor. 

960 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will have many enemies, will enjoy, will 
have gains of wealth and corns and be always intelligible. 

961 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will cohabit with many women and will 
hate many persons. 

962 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will at all times suffer from poverty, be 


devoid of wealth and conduct, but will have sons. 


963 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be sickly, indigent, be a leper and 
will join his enemies. 

964 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from many diseases and 
penury and be miserable and sensuous. 

965 Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be intelligent, rich and friendly and 
will destroy enemies. 

966 Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be splendorous and affluent. 

967 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be intelligent, wealthy, will have friends 
and will harm his enemies. 

968 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 8th Bhava: will be endowed with corns, 
money and happens, will have good conduct, be interested in Shastras and religion and will 
worship Gods, preceptors and Brahmins. 

969 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be blind, wise, indigent and 

be always after women. 

970 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will go begging, be poor, be 
interested in the knowledge of identity of the Universe with Brahma and will be highly 
skillful. 

971 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: The native will be a minister, 

rich, famous, influential, authoritative and will inflict punishment, as justice. 

972 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be wise, bereft of happiness 
from wife and will live by begging. 

973 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be wise, bereft of happiness 
from wife and will live by begging. Additionally, the native will possess good qualities. 

974 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be egoistic, be happy with 
regard to wife and will be wise. 

975 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: 

976 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be very sick, intelligent, very 
poor and skillful. 

977 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be happy in regard to wife, 
be liberal, of good conduct and poor. 

978 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will suffer from bad diseases, will 
kill, be imprisoned, will suffer from penury and be poor. 


979 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will sometimes contemplate the 


Supreme Spirit, yet sometimes be detached (from that path), will sometimes grow twisted 
(matted) hair, yet sometimes will remain tonsured and will have various (such) guises and 
will perform very cruel acts. 

980 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will have many quadrupeds, be 
affluent, be highly scholarly and be skillful in the sciences of Sex and Yoga. 

981 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will always be wise, rich and be 
highly valorous in times of war. 

982 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 8th Bhava: will be glorious, be 

merciful and will be addressed, like a great king. 

983 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will have various kinds of 
happiness, but be bereft of wealth and will enjoy with sons. 

984 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be endowed with 
abundant happiness, various kinds of wealth and will like playing with horses. 

985 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 8th Bhava: will be very rich, devoted to 
Brahmins and endowed with relatives. 

986 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn: will lord over elephants and horses, 


be chief among his men, be endowed with houses and wealth and devoted to Brahmins. 


987 9TH 


988 Sun, Moon: will be very modest, be a great men, be famous for his valour, be dear 
to the virtuous and be justly disposed. 

989 Sun, Mars in the 9th Bhava: will be self-respected, will win over his enemies, will 
show interest to be free from blemish, be splendorous and skillful in rendering justice. 
990 Sun, Mercury: will have good intelligence, be truthful, dear to the learned and will 
have many friends. 

991 Sun, Jupiter: will subdue his enemies, be happy, will enjoy gains of corns and wealth, 
be amiable to the virtuous and dear to the king. 

992 Sun, Venus: will be endowed with greatness, be intelligent, famous and friendly. 
993 Sun, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with wealth and intelligence, be very 
happy in married life and will win over his enemies. 

994 Moon, Mars in the 9th Bhava: will have knowledge of Shastras, be very wealthy, 


skillful and will enjoy many kinds of food and drinks. 


995 Moon, Mercury: will be happy with children, will conquer his five senses, be interested 
in religion, praiseworthy, dear to king and worshipped by relatives. 

996 Moon, Jupiter: will be not wealthy, be skillful in speech, fond of pleasures, valorous, 
grateful, interested in Shastras and very intelligent. 

997 Moon, Venus: will be dear to great men, will have knowledge of Shastras, be friendly 
and be attached to his relatives. 

998 Moon, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in religious vows and charitable acts, 
be dear to king, will have many sons and multiple number of wives, be rich and will have 
knowledge of Shastras. 

999 Mars, Mercury: will have many servants, be endowed with marital happiness, will 
acquire sons, will be an eloquent speaker and be devoid of bad qualities. 

1000 Mars, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will be full of virtues, will take bath in sacred rivers, 

will respect Brahmins and Gods, be an agriculturist and be justly disposed. 

1001 Mars, Venus: will honour his guests, will have beautiful body, will have very pleasing 
appearance, be chief in his race and will be principled. 

1002 Mars, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be devoid of vices, be interested in earning by 
truthful means, be courageous and will like his relatives. 

1003 Mercury, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will have steady mind, be liked by all, be merciful, will 
have faith in Vedas and other Shastras, will be chiefly an agriculturist and be always 

virtuous. 

1004 Mercury, Venus: will have servants, will have meritorious acts to his credit, be egoistic, will 
have many friends and be dear to women. 

1005 Mercury, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be very beautiful, will have abundant landed 
property, will be endowed with good qualities, be quite wealthy and be liked by the king. 
1006 Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will have wealth and fame, good sons and paraphernalia, 
be frank and fond of children. 

1007 Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be a lord, be interested in music and religion, be 
virtuous and favourable to good deeds. 

1008 Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be highly meritorious, highly learned, famous, skillful 
in speech and dear to people. 

1009 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 9th Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, interested in 
meritorious acts and Castraic account, will have purity of the body and be interested in 


good qualities. 


1010 Sun, Moon, Mercury: will consider truth, as important, be beautiful, will have broad 
eyes, be a lord, will be endowed with a pleasing body and will be attached to his sons. 

1011 Sun, Moon, Jupiter: will be expert in principles of religion, will be endowed with 
wealth of learning, will be detached from sinful dealings, be very truthful and be bereft of 
sexual desires. 

1012 Sun, Moon, Venus: will be interested in speaking harshly, will not visit shrines, be of 
thievish disposition and be miserable. 

1013 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in religious tales, be favourable 
to preceptors, be principled, be dear to the virtuous and will trust Shastras. 

1014 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in committing sinful acts, be 
cruel, untruthful, ill-disposed, interested in eating others’ food and will serve others. 

1015 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will be banished from the religion, will not 

have good history, will have a bad wife and will be detached from his relatives. 

1016 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be devoid of religion and virtues, be vividly 
honoured, be devoid of good background and wisdom. 

1017 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be devoid of son, will lose the vigour of 

youth, be sinful, will wear rags, be highly spend-thrift and will do irreligious acts. 

1018 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter: will be endowed with riches, will have many friends, will honour 
Brahmins, have good disposition and be just. 

1019 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will talk much, be truthful, interested in virtues, 
grateful, will conquer his Five senses and be free from sinful desires. 

1020 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be an agriculturist, be at all times charitably 
disposed, will possess good splendour, be strong, broad-eyed and justly disposed. 

1021 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will possess prime virtues, will acquire grains and 
wealth, be great and beautiful. 

1022 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will like (living in) foreign countries, be miserable 
and devoid of sexual feelings. 

1023 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be an indifferent citizen, be immodest, be 
sinful by nature and will have an ugly physical set up. 

1024 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 9th Bhava: will be truthful, famous and wealthy, will be 
splendorous, be and astrologer, be very efficacious and great (or respectable). 

1025 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will enjoy happiness from sons, be affectionate 


to friends, will possess good intelligence, conquer his five senses and will be attached to his 


relatives. 

1026 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be happy with sons, be pure, kind worth 
respect even from a king and will join classic people. 

1027 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will like food people, be very bashful, devoid of 
sexual feelings, will possess principally good qualities and will be destroyed by the king. 

1028 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter: will be skillful, will like famous people, be merciful, will visit 
shrines and will be alert in his duty. 

1029 Moon, Mercury, Venus: will be good-looking, fierce, widely famous and attached to 
Brahmins at all times. 

1030 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be dear to the virtuous, will conquer enemies, 
be highly virtuous and be famous. 

1031 Moon, Jupiter, Venus: will be famous, will possess a virtuous wife, be principally just and 
be devoid of (mundane) desires. 

1032 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn: will be a scholar of high order, be bereft of anger, be splendorous 
and be notably self-respected. 

1033 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will consider wealth, as a chief possession, be 
helpful to preceptors (or elders), be endowed with justice and virtues, will possess 

abundant Castraic knowledge and be devoid of relatives. 

1034 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be intelligent, be endowed with knowledge 
of various Shastras, be wealthy, happy, patient and devoid of sexual feelings. 

1035 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be merciful, interested in visiting shrines, 
will be endowed with abundant food and drinks, will enjoy good people and be always 
intelligent. 

1036 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be very efficacious, egoistic, interested in 
Shastras and be charitable. 

1037 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be free from sickness, be very wealthy, 
virtuous, kind and fearless. 

1038 Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will have abundant money, elephants and horses, 
will conquer his five senses and be valorous. 

1039 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be a king, be honoured by enemies and will 
have elephants, horses and conveyances. 

1040 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will spend on bad missions, be sickly, ungrateful, 


forsaken by his people and will like to be valorous. 


1041 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of quarrels, merciful, will have many 
sons, be truthful and famous. 

1042 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be good looking, liberally disposed, modest, 
famous and be fond of his sons. 

1043 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 9th Bhava: will adopt (religions) vows, be 

interested in religion, be famous, devoted to Fire God and to his own relatives. 

1044 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will be free from diseases, will possess 
abundant wealth, be virtuous, be not valorous and be attached to others’ wives. 

1045 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will not be splendorous, will not follow 

vedic duties, be devoid of shame and will guess about others. 

1046 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be devoid of intelligence, be a 

dunce, be devoid of children and be highly short-tempered. 

1047 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus: will be highly valorous, be famous, will store wealth and be 
dear to people. 

1048 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of songs, be not interested in 
sinful matters, will perform famous deeds and be free from (mundane) desires. 

1049 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with high grade of 
Castraic knowledge, be interested in visiting shrines, will be charitable, very wealthy and 
justly disposed. 

1050 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be rich with various kinds of wealth, be 
found of charitability, be dutiful and be dear to people. 

1051 Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be liked by good people, be very justly 
disposed, will have many children and be highly respectable. 

1052 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will destroy enemies, will be a lord and 
will possess conveyances, clothes and ornaments. 

1053 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will not possess horses (i.e. conveyances), 
be wicked, be entirely devoid of mercy and will not be favourable to Brahmins. 

1054 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be very gracious of temperament, will 
be an eloquent messenger (be a good ambassador) and will have many good conveyances 
and sons. 

1055 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will like good qualities (will himself 

possess good qualities), be fond of good deeds, will have a modest wife and will be very 


friendly disposed. 


1056 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will have steady mind, be free from 

enemies, grateful, enthusiastic and will be endowed with mental vigour. 

1057 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of money, will like sinful 

dealings, will be highly greedy and will be sexually distressed. 

1058 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be patient, truthful, merciful, be strong 
in speech and be fearless. 

1059 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be fickle-minded, be fond of others’ 
wives, be bereft of kindness and be blamed by relatives. 

1060 Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be unsteady, or excessively passionate, 
be skillful in conversations relating to sex, very miserable and dull. 

1061 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will perform auspicious acts, be liberal in 
speech, will receive royal orders and be fierce in speech. 

1062 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will like guests, be with wise people, be 
chief among his men and be justly disposed. 

1063 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be truthful, be interested in such 
people, skillful in relation and be patient. 

1064 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will possess beautiful hands and 
appearance, be chief among his men, will have much of Castraic acquaintance and be dear 

to king. 

1065 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will have many children, be skillful in 

royal duties, be fond of visiting shrines and be and expert in Shastras. 

1066 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of good qualities, be 

honoured by kings, will conquer his five senses and be self-respected. 

1067 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be famous, charitable, skillful highly 
learned and be rich by royal honours. 

1068 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be an emperor, be devoid of enemies 
and be endowed with elephants, horses and treasures of various kinds. 

1069 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with liberal acts, be fond 
of good deeds, skillful and be always inclined to uphold religion. 

1070 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be affable, will befriend good people, 
be cunning and skillful. 

1071 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in worshipping Gods and 


Brahmins, will have famous notions and will control his five senses. 


1072 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be highly bashful, be truthful, 
merciful and virtuous. 

1073 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will have sons, wealth and pleasures of 
many kinds, will possess a beautiful physique and be acceptable to people. 

1074 Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of success, will be endowed 
with good history and be successful. 

1075 Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will perform sacrifices, be lordly disposed, 
be charitable and be sinless. 

1076 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be expert in profane knowledge and 
Vedas. 

1077 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 9th Bhava: will be firmly courageous, be 
devoid of wisdom, be fierce and be bereft of Castraic knowledge. 

1078 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with various 

kinds of wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises, will be in the company of good people 
and be endowed with money and relatives. 

1079 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will achieve education to its end, 
will have fame well-spread, be endowed with a pleasing physique and be expert in the 
branch of justice. 

1080 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins, be 

attached to religion, be of good disposition, be very wealthy and be fearless. 

1081 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be liberal in disposition, be 
affectionate, be a great man and will be firm in friendship. 

1082 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will have religious faith, be 

charitable, be delighted, or gracious, will have ethical jobs and be devoid of desires. 

1083 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus: will be firmly valorous, be devoid of intelligence, be 
fierce in disposition, be bereft of Vedic knowledge and be immodest. 

1084 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will respect his mother and father, 
will be endowed with pleasing appearance, be very wealthy and be amiable to Brahmins. 
1085 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in religious vows, 
be chief among his men, will possess a body without any disease and be amiable to people. 
1086 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will acquire many kinds of wealth, be 
fond of his wife (or women), will hold the flag of Virtue aloft and be famous. 


1087 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will enjoy immense wealth, be 


greatly intelligent, will have many friends and will defeat his enemies. 

1088 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be grateful, enthusiastic, fond 
of charity, intelligent and beautiful. 

1089 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be interested in the acquisition 

of knowledge, be charitably disposed, virtuous, pure and be devoid of residence (or 
dependents). 

1090 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be shameless, be of bad 
disposition, be troubled by disease and will fear war (or quarrels, i.e. will be timidly 

disposed). 

1091 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will have good intelligence, will 
conquer enemies, be merciful and be fond of Brahmins. 

1092 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be bereft of diseases, be 
interested in undertaking acts related to God, be fond of good men and will be liked by 

the king. 

1093 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be timidly disposed, be 
endowed with sons and wife, be dutiful to his family and will always speak truth. 

1094 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with great wisdom 
and learning, helpful to elders and will respect Gods and Brahmins. 

1095 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be bereft of cunning tendency, 
will possess good intelligence, be charitable and be not sinful. 

1096 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be honoured by king, be fond of 
women and be devoid of fear and misery. 

1097 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 9th Bhava: will be sinful, interested in 
sinful tales (conversation), will be in the company of bad people and be censured by 

people. 

1098 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be predominantly 
jealous, be devoid of fame and virtues and be not wise. 

1099 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be endowed with lovely 
pleasures, be devoid of great strength, be a dejected citizen and be of hard disposition. 

1100 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be fraudulent, timid, ugly, 
devoid of good qualities and be highly proud. 

1101 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will cause extinction (like a 


butcher), will eat voraciously, be sinfully disposed and be cruel. 


1102 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 9th Bhava: will be the lord of the earth, 
will be endowed with treasury (i.e. will have abundant wealth), be fearless, will be will 
bestowed (in all respects). 

1103 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn: will enjoy great happiness, be free 


from diseases and be intelligent. 


1104 10th 


1105 Sun, Moon: will not be skillful, be wicked by nature, be of bad disposition, be not 
charitable and be fond of women. 

1106 Sun, Mars: will be very much devastated, be successful, be liked by king and fond 

of relatives. 

1107 Sun, Mercury: will be very intelligent, be famous, be free from desires, be fond of 
others, truthful and grateful. 

1108 Sun, Jupiter: will help people, will have abundant wealth and conveyances and will 
speak affectionately and sweetly. 

1109 Sun, Venus: will be self-respected, beautiful, virtuous, fearless and be well-versed in 
religious commandments. 

1110 Sun, Saturn: will be devoid of wealth, be eminent, will have broad eyes, lovely arms 
and face, long hair and be very intelligent. 

1111 Moon, Mars: will be honoured by king, will conquer enemies, will have many 
assignments and will earn money through interest (i.e. by lending). 

1112 Moon, Mercury: will be favourable to Brahmins, will be ever diligent, be interested in 
meritorious acts, be widely famous and be bold in his deeds. 

1113 Moon, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will be courageous, endowed with strength, wise, will 
have income through fair means, be happy, chief and devoid of foul thinking. 

1114 Moon, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will acquire wealth and intelligence, be an agriculturist, 
will derive happiness through the king and be worshiped by him and be of exalted rank. 
1115 Moon, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be very modest, will have many friends, be 
famously valorous, favourable to Brahmins and be firmly virile. 

1116 Mars, Mercury in the 10th Bhava: will be bold, intelligent, will be endowed with good 
disposition, wealth and knowledge of sacred treatises, truthful, be fond of music and be 


religious. 


1117 Mars, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with abundant attendance (will have 
many servants), will possess god history, be interested in Vedas and others Shastras, be 
within the sphere of religion and will cause satisfaction to others. 

1118 Mars, Venus: will be endowed with various kinds of eatables and drinks, will live in 
great shrines, be delighted, merciful and very modest. 

1119 Mars, Saturn: will have knowledge of Vedas, be endowed with virtues, be not 

cunning, will have quadrupeds and sons, be always plentiful and will possess very pleasing 
appearance. 

1120 Mercury, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will be very miserable, will be famous, truthful, kind, 
pure in nature and be endowed with wealth and grains. 

1121 Mercury, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be fortunate, lovely, be fond of guests, interested in 
religious conversations, will have pleasing appearance and be firmly friendly. 

1122 Mercury, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in calculation i.e. will be an expert 
mathematician, will have famous job, be highly intelligent and be always attached to Gods 
and Brahmins. 

1123 Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins (wise men), be highly 
intelligent, be truthful and will visit shrines. 

1124 Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be chief among Vedic scholars, be principled, be 
highly valorous and be dear to people. 

1125 Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, be pure by nature, be endowed 
with sovereignty, be a great personage and be interested in the virtuous. 

1126 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 10th Bhava: will be devoid of truth and vigour, be fond of 
battle, be dear to king, be modest in speech and be fond of doing good people’s jobs. 

1127 Sun, Moon, Mercury: will be bereft of sins, be fond of wisdom (be intelligent), be 
sovereignly, will possess a charming physique and will be highly honoured. 

1128 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will be chief among the intelligentsia, will have 

a secure (unhurt) physique, will have vast attendance upon him, be chief among his men 
and be intelligent. 

1129 Sun, Moon, Venus: will visit shrines, be fond of attending upon good people, will 

have knowledge of justice, be very wealthy and will skillfully act with females. 

1130 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will always maintain purity (i.e. be an orthodox 
person), be devoid of justice, will perform mean acts and will desire the advent of 


abundant grains. 


1131 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 10th Bhava: will be highly religious (or charitable), be very 
scholarly, will have many friends, be honoured by the public, be fond of the virtuous and 
will be very modest. 

1132 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will always be charitable, will possess lovely 
speech, be not showy, be fond of good people and be very modest. 

1133 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be repository of truth and fame, will have 
plenty of money earned through sovereign honour, be fortunate and just. 

1134 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be akin to the Celestial Tree (i.e. capable 

of giving anything asked for), pleasing in appearance, be splendorous, be learned in 
Shastras, be chief in the midst of his men and be always happy. 

1135 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter: will be devoid of moral duty, be devoid of anger, be fond of those, 
who observe religious vows and be fond of sacrifices and Religion. 

1136 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be patient, charming, be fond of learned 
circle, be very just, highly learned and be amiable to Brahmins. 

1137 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be highly knowledgeable, patient, truthful, 
kingly, very wealthy and be skillful in many acts. 

1138 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be very religious, will promote the growth of 
his descent, be liked by good people and be pleasing in appearance. 

1139 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with commendable speech, be 
very modest, be very rich and will honour Gods and preceptors. 

1140 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be famous, grateful, be endowed with 
learning, wisdom, Vedas and Shastras, be devoid of desires, be enthusiastic and cautious. 
1141 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 10th Bhava: will be devoid of moral duties, be inimical, 
enthusiastic, be liberal and amiable to people. 

1142 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will consider truth, as wealth, be pleasing in 
appearance, be honoured by the king, modest, eminent, will be endowed with good drinks, 
wife and sons and be fond of learning. 

1143 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in shrines and tales, be 
fortunate, will defeat enemies and worship Gods and Brahmins. 

1144 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be splendorous, skillful in conversation, 

be highly bashful, honoured by kings and be skillful in helping others. 

1145 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will be worshiped by the king, be firm in 


disposition, will be endowed with exalted position (or riches), be interested in Vedas and 


be conscientious of justice. 

1146 Moon, Mercury, Venus: will be kind to living beings, be very shameful, devoid of sexual 
desires, be always enthusiastic and be splendorous. 

1147 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will consider truth, as wealth, be devoid of 
desires, acceptable (to all), will possess regulated speech, be eminent, firm in disposition 

and be sickly disposed. 

1148 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be very beautiful, very valorous, be 
endowed with sons and friends and will have abundant wealth earned by his vast 

intelligence. 

1149 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be devoid of learning and modes ty, will join 
the company of good men, be endowed with justice and will be honoured by the king. 

1150 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with wealth, be lordly among 
people, will enjoy honour and fame, but be ill-tempered. 

1151 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in truth, be modest, be very 
meritorious in his act, be charitable, chief of his men and pleasing to look at. 

1152 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with great wealth and be very 
valorous, will conquer his enemies, be patient and be fond of visiting shrines. 

1153 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be famous, be endowed with wife, be very 
wise, be liked by women, be chief in his decent and will possess good qualities. 

1154 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will always be eminent, be very valorous and 

be well-disposed to relatives. 

1155 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will earn more money through terrorizing act, 

be famous, rich and be skillful in the branch of Justice. 

1156 Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be curt, will perform rash act, will be highly 
distressed, will have abundant wealth and be important in his decent. 

1157 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be a great king, be very valorous, charitable 
and truthful. 

1158 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be saintly, courageous, be greatly affluent, 
will know justice and be fond of his relatives. 

1159 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in (creating) park and well, be 
charitable and will attain fame by his vat wisdom. 

1160 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be pure by nature, be eminent by his 


intelligence, be honoured by the virtuous and will be free from ailment. 


1161 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 10th Bhava: will be a repository of learning, be 
endowed with abundant wealth, will have unlike (on) and be forsaken by others. 

1162 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will have many servant, be 

splendorous, be liked by the virtuous and king. 

1163 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with horses (i.e. 
conveyances), will proper greatly, be not given to anger and be fond of God and Brahmin. 
1164 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will have abundant wealth and Castraic 
knowledge, be grateful, endowed with robe and ornament and will possess good qualities. 
1165 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter: will be a skillful speaker, be firm in disposition, be free 
from sins and be ever exalted. 

1166 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be grateful, enthusiastic and will be 
praised by the virtuous. 

1167 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: make one wealthy and ungrateful. 
1168 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will possess good qualities, be famous, 
charitable and be a scholar. 

1169 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will befriend many, be happy with on, be 
very kind and will be devoted to penance. 

1170 Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be splendorous, pure, be a chief 
personage, be ever diligent, honourable and noble. 

1171 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will be truthful, fond of Brahmin, be 
devoid of desire, be famous, will visit shrines and will have many on. 

1172 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in guest, be in the 
company of good men, be learned and friendly disposed. 

1173 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will make one an army chief, a king’ 
minister, do mean act and go after mundane pleasures. 

1174 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be well-disposed, will have great 
wealth, many on, be grateful, splendorous and virtuous. 

1175 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be a scholar, skillful in justice, be 
jealous and firmly virile. 

1176 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be a devoted townsmen, be selfrespected 
and be endowed with sons, wealth and conveyances. 

1177 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with various kinds of 


wealth, drinks and many sons, be highly learned and skillful in his work. 


1178 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will receive royal honour, will have 
knowledge of religious performance, be valorous, be a poet and will be against sins. 

1179 Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be very kind, be truthful, be devoted to 
Fire God and will possess a pleasing appearance. 

1180 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be virtuous, be always interested in his 
father’ assignment, be amiable to people and will be wealthy. 

1181 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will principally earn through his 

servant, be devoid of enemies and always be fond of assembly and skillful people. 

1182 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be fond of installing gardens and 

tree, be splendorous, will possess horses and be bereft of good qualities. 

1183 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be charitable, be very famous and 

be helpful to relatives. 

1184 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be famous, be interested in Castraic 
conversation, be faithful to religion and be endowed with religion. 

1185 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, be very 

proficient, be praiseworthy, be helpful, to people and will have good servant. 

1186 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be of pleased disposition, be dear to 
king, will possess an attractive physique and be skillful in Justice. 

1187 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will possess a band of elephant and horses 
and will destroy his enemies. 

1188 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will have many sons, be rich by fair mean, 
be liberal, grateful and be free from bodily diseases. 

1189 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with patience, will possess 
an ugly body, truthful and will have wealth and sons. 

1190 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be learned, be great poet, be highly 
religious, will perform meritorious act, be a good personage and be beautiful in 

appearance. 

1191 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will have many friend, abundant wealth 
and softly robe, be fortunate and be devoid of good-will. 

1192 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be heroic, be dear to king, be skillful 
in conducting a war, will possess a big treasury i.e. be highly wealthy and be acceptable to 
people. 


1193 Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be enthusiastic, be very just, be 


enduring, will conquer his five senses and be pleasing to look at. 

1194 Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be firm in disposition, be skillful in 
performance, be ever diligent, be very wealthy and be delighted. 

1195 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be fond of exalted service (i.e. will 
make attempt to reach a high position of life), will be pleasing in appearance, be a great 
man and be fond of Brahmin. 

1196 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 10th Bhava: will be valorous, just, will 
possess good physique, be highly shy and be free from diseases. 

1197 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be truthful, kind will be 
endowed with good conduct, be a dealer in gold and be happy. 

1198 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be chief in his decent, be 
principled, learned and skillful in poetry. 

1199 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be an expert in art, be 
endowed with patience, interested in being honoured and be learned in justice. 

1200 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will perform sacrifice, be 
enthusiastic, be devoid of pain, be an agriculturist and be wealthy. 

1200 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will win 
over his enemies, be eminently rich and be justly disposed. 

1201 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus: will be extremely patient, be devoid of sins, be 
eminently intelligent and be a winner in regard to Shastras (will win anybody in the matter 
of Shastras). 

1202 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be learned, modest, will reach 
an eminent status, be fond of sacrifice and conveyance. 

1203 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be dear to people, be happy 
with living being (i.e. will possess animal etc.), be grateful, be endowed with distinguished 
speech and will possess an attractive body. 

1204 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will have many horses (i.e. 
conveyance), will possess a body free from sickness, be plentiful, be principally reach and 
be skillful in assignments relating to war. 

1205 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be dear 
to women, will have foul speech and be very beloved. 

1206 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will possess many horses, be 


valorous, learned and will have many friend. 


1207 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will have many children, be 
truthful, pure, delighted, fond of visiting shrines and follow religious vow. 

1208 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be very justly disposed, will 
have vat attendance upon him, will have good history and learning, be intelligent, will not 
trouble others, will be highly patient and be fond of his wife. 

1209 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be wise, equal to the preceptor of 
God (i.e. highly learned, like Jupiter, the preceptor of God), be religious, will have vat 
knowledge of Shastras and will possess good qualities. 

1210 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be liked by many king, be 
principal among poet and be modest. 

1211 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in having 
religious vow, be skillful in living in foreign countries, will earn wealth by fair mean and be 
bereft of vice. 

1212 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be valorous justly disposed, 
virtuous, be a poet and be libidinous. 

1213 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be liked by god people, be 
devoid of artificial disposition and be fond of serving the virtuous. 

1214 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be a principal royal officer, be 
endowed with elephant and horses, be diligent in performing yagia and be worshipped by 
relatives. 

1215 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be interested in poetry, be 
skillful in various Shastras, be wealthy, enthusiastic and be cautious. 

1216 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 10th Bhava: will be king of king, be 
devoid of his own men, be very valorous and be splendorous. 

1217 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be a synonym of 
charity, be a king, be virtuous, be very graciously disposed and be dear to people. 

1218 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will visit famous shrines, be 
a principal person with the king, be interested in learning and be devoid of fear. 

1219 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be fond of partaking in 
battle, be of an exalted rank with the king, be famous, merciful and truthful. 

1220 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be endowed with various 
kind of elephant and horses, be fond of guest and be widely famous. 


1221 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: it lead to vagabondness and 


high wisdom. 

1222 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will be steady in disposition 
and will have his feet above the bejeweled head of the king (i.e. the king will prostate 

before the native, that the native is so eminent). 

1223 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 10th Bhava: will have the wealth 


of truth and fame, be a king, be charitable and famous. 


1224 11th 


1225 Sun, Moon: will have financial gain, be always plentiful, will possess superior horses, 
will be devoted to the Almighty and will be very friendly disposed. 

1226 Sun, Mars: will be courageous, will destroy enemies, will not join the band of 

inner, be devoid of pride and be lordly disposed. 

1227 Sun, Mercury in 11th: will have plenty of gain, be a skillful trader, be wealthy, will have 
knowledge of justice, be learned and be fond of all people. 

1228 Sun, Jupiter: will be interested in Brahmins’ assignment, be fond of garden and well, 
will perform Yagna, be learned in many Shastras and be skillful in husbandry. 

1229 Sun, Venus: will have many friends, be dear to king and be firmly courageous. 

1230 Sun, Saturn: will be endowed with various kinds of wealth, be high-souled, be a 
scholar, be grateful, free from miseries and delighted. 

1231 Moon, Mars: will have relatives, will be intelligent, skillful, will have many friends 

and be pleasing to look at. 

1232 Moon, Mercury in the 11th Bhava: will be fortunate, good looking, learned, splendorous, 
plentiful, will have many friend and be very friendly. 

1233 Moon, Jupiter: will be free from diseases, be scholarly, will conquer his enemies, will 
have growth and gain of money, be a great man and be dear to king. 

1234 Moon, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be learned, will have 
excellent children, be truthful, eminent, will have attractive eyes and be fond of women. 
1235 Moon, Saturn: will be fond of praise, will have happiness of many kinds, will earn wide 
fame, be charitably disposed and will win over enemies. 

1236 Mars, Mercury in the 11th Bhava: will have plenty of gain, will conquer his five senses, 
be fond of Shastras, be eminent, be always happy and be of agreeable disposition. 


1237 Mars, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will not be sinful, be very efficacious, be modest, be 


always diligent and will care for Brahmins. 

1238 Mars, Venus: will be supreme by virtue of his religious vow and initiation, be wellread, 
enthusiastic, be of exalted rank, be patient and will worship (be loyal to) the king. 

1239 Mars, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be famously efficacious, will conquer his five 

senses, be courageous, eminent and will always enjoy abundant robe and ornament. 

1240 Mercury, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with elephant and horses, be 
splendorous, be pure, be of exalted rank, be fond of visiting shrines and be skillful in all 

art. 

1241 Mercury, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with many excellent pearls, will have 
many sons, be very meritorious in his act, be of good qualities, be pure in disposition and 

be dear to all. 

1242 Mercury, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will have an auspicious wife, will himself be auspicious, 
be attached to well-meaning person, be interested in yagna and be always favorable to 
relative. 

1243 Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be extremely intelligent, will possess a pleasing face, 
will have a wife, be famous, will enjoy physical pleasure and be happy. 

1244 Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will worship Brahmins, be very splendorous, very 
wealthy, lordly and famous. 

1245 Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in many Shastras, be endowed with gold 
and precious stone, like cat’s eye, pearl and ruby, be a loyal citizen and be principled. 

1246 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with hundred of gain, be 
splendorous, be justly disposed, will have beautiful eye, will perform auspicious act and 

be free from desire. 

1247 Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 11th Bhava: will have virtuous principle to follow, will reach 
an exalted rank, will possess attractive face and eye, will be fond of women, be fond of 

truth and be very friendly disposed. 

1248 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will be very famous, will worship God, will have 
many kinds of wealth and abundant Castraic knowledge, be highly learned, be famous and 
will be praised even by the confident. 

1249 Sun, Moon, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be free from diseases, be splendorous, 

pleasing in appearance, proficient, be dear to king and will always be at the service of the 
virtuous. 


1250 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with happiness, will be good 


looking, will acquire abundant wealth, conveyance, food and clothe, will have obedient 
servant and be firmly friendly in nature. 

1251 Sun, Mars, Mercury in the 11th Bhava: will possess great brilliance, be a skillful 
justice, will possess a surprising physique and also ornament, be free from desire, will have 
great Vedic knowledge and be skillful in religious act. 

1252 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will be highly intelligent, will possess an 
attractive physique, be a will dispose person, be religious and long-live. 

1253 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be very wealthy, be learned in Veda, dear 
grateful, will possess an attractive physique and be interested in Shastras. 

1254 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be very intelligent very attractive, 

fortunate, religious and long-lived. 

1255 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter: will be gainful, will be skillful in orthodox law, will adopt virtuous 
course, be very famous, be firm in disposition, be honoured and will reach an eminent 
rank. 

1256 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be free from diseases, highly learned, be 
interested in Shastras, be endowed with sloe, will destroy enemies and will honour 
Brahmins. 

1257 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be respected by all the king, will be initiated, 
be very interested in Shastras will reach a very eminent position and will honour Brahmins. 
1258 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will possess brilliance, be courageous, will 
consider virtue a his wealth, will have knowledge of justice, be of firm disposition and be 
respected by the king. 

1259 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be valorous, be very rich, will have 
knowledge of many sacred precept, be learned and be peaceful. 

1260 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be strong, delighted, modest, kind and will 
worship God and elder. 

1261 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 11th Bhava: will possess rich conveyance, will earn by 
truthful mean, be fond of people and be devoid of fear. 

1262 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will be free from sweating and diseases, be 
liberal, fortunate, will posses a pleasing body, will have conveyance and be eminent. 

1263 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be truthful and argumentative, be a 
member (or atant) of an assembly (or a meeting) will have all kind of happiness and will 


earn ornament by worship of lord Siva. 


1264 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will earn wealth, be attractive, highly 

intelligent, pure and be a great man. 

1265 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of joining assembly of skillful men, 
be eminent, learned, be a repository of varied art and be happy through the pleasure of 

the ruler. 

1266 Moon, Mercury, Venus: will be endowed with complexion akin to evening twilight, will be 
worshiped by the men of the world, will possess beautiful teeth and eyes, be fortunate, will 
destroy enemies, be fond of visiting shrines and be amiable to Brahmins. 

1267 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with horses and elephant, will 
be a pleasing speaker, be merciful, will donate gold and be fond of sons. 

1268 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be pure, will be endowed with a delighted 
face, will tend to become famous, be well praised by the virtuous and be skillful. 

1269 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be devoid of fear, be skillful in war 
preparation and activities related to war, fond of grape and learned in Shastras. 

1270 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will have various gain, be delighted, be a 
delighting speaker and be delighting to eye. 

1271 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will be highly libidinous, will have an attractive 
physique, attractive feet and hand, will look highly beautiful and will be endowed with a 
number of horses and elephant. 

1272 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in his duty, be grateful, be 
highly learned, be very just, very patient, be a commendable speaker and be worshiped by 
the king. 

1273 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be truthfully disposed, be good-looking, 
intelligent, justly disposed, praise worthy and will be endowed with various gain from war. 
1274 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be patiently disposed, will practice 

penance, be honourable, be bereft of enemies and be endowed with knowledge of 

religious rule, learning and ornament. 

1275 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be learned, liberal in speech, fortunate, will 
have an attractive body, be fond of horses and be wealthy with all kind of happiness. 

1276 Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be beautiful, firm in disposition and 
friendship, will be endowed with good history and be free from dispute. 

1277 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will have attractive appearance, be endowed with 


elephant, horses and wealth, be cautious, endowed with good qualities and highly learned 


in Shastras. 

1278 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be very patient, will have many sons, will 
possess wide learning and vat number of ornament, will be bleed with meritorious act and 

be very kind. 

1279 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of obtaining distinction, be a king, 
principal person, be highly praised and fond of visiting shrines. 

1280 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be splendorous, will have mellifluous voice, 
be a very important person of the whole dynasty, be virtuous and wealthy. 

1281 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with great wealth, be 
fortunate, will win over enemies, will be very liberal and will destroy others. 

1282 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will have many children, will be justly 
disposed, be acquainted with the king, will defeat enemies and will be famously 

efficacious. 

1283 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will gain gold, pearl, ruby and robe, will 

be broad-minded and be a royal employee. 

1284 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be very kind, be capable of grieving 
others, be dear to king and be highly slpendorous. 

1285 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter: will be valorous, virtuous, very learned, worth worship and 
endowed with good qualities. 

1286 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with learning by nature, 
be learned a poet, be will acquainted with Veda and be helpful to people. 

1287 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be of gracious disposition, will honour 
great men (or teacher), will have great learning and will enjoy war. 

1288 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of Shastras, will enjoy fame, be 
interested in virtue, will be dear and learned. 

1289 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be highly efficacious, will exhibit 
valour, be interested in donating to others and be very intelligent. 

1290 Sun, Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be famous, liberal and kind, be bereft 
of diseases and will be pleased among Brahmins. 

1291 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will enjoy good conveyance, will crush 

his enemies, be efficacious and will be expert in justice. 

1292 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be liberal in speech, be attached to 


good men, be fond of king and be valorous. 


1293 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will enjoy elaborate arrangement (i.e. all 
paraphernalia), will be an expert artisan and will possess abundant wealth and a number 

of conveyance. 

1294 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of relative, will be a 

repository of all kind of happiness, will be highly satisfied and be very modest. 

1295 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be highly rich, be liked by women 

and be endowed with good history, learning and vedic knowledge. 

1296 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with splendour be killed 

in all art, skillful and merciful and be charitable. 

1297 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be highly famous, be devoid of desire 
and will possess beautiful eye and good qualities. 

1298 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be served by others, will follow 
religious observation, will possess a body free from injuries, or will be free from malice in 
thought, will hold aloft flag of charity and will not be mean (i.e. will be great) 

1299 Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be firm in disposition, be free from fear 
and in, will surprise in speech and be learned in Veda. 

1300 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will acquire several gain, be delighted and 
be agreeable to people. 

1301 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with great learning 
and abundant riches, be a ruler, will destroy his enemies and be quite charitable. 

1302 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 11th Bhava: Not available. 

1303 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will have elf restraint, will eat Brahmins’ 
food, will possess a good physique, be very patient, very charitable and will be pleasing to 
look at. 

1304 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be expert in dealing with machinery, 
will honour teacher, will be intelligent, will have all kind of happiness and be plentiful. 

1305 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be a ruler, will join good men, will 
enjoy plenty of food and drink and will be in the company of skillful men. 

1306 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be lord of king (i.e. be an emperor), 
will be endowed with horses, be valorous and be scholar. 

1307 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be a king with sea a boundaries of his 
kingdom, will eliminate his enemies and will perform very charitable act. 


1308 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be splendorous, be an auspicious 


speaker (or will peak only good word), be a leader of scholar, be a lord of the earth and be 
agreeable to Brahmins. 

1309 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be good-looking, be a ruler, interested 
in visiting shrines, be a principal person and be skillful in war. 

1310 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be bright in appearance, will perform 
meritorious act, will win over his enemies, will be a ruler and be well versed in Shastras. 

1311 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will enjoy all kind of happiness, will 

suffer from windy complaint, be distinguished, be a ruler and a scholar. 

1312 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be valorous, be a lord, will destroy 
enemies, will have an attractive face and be charitable. 

1313 Mars, Mercury, Venus,Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be strong, or fat, will carry out royal 
order, be valorous, be devoid of fear and be dear to Brahmins. 

1314 Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with many sons, 

abundant wealth and great justice, be a ruler and be devoid of enemies. 

1315 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be highly learned, be lord of the earth 
and be interested in Vedic studies. 

1316 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter: will be virtuous, be enthusiastic, be a king, be 

highly wealthy and a skillful warrior. 

1317 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be an excellent person, be 
learned in veda, be not artificial in disposition, be a ruler and be meritorious. 

1318 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be valorous, be highly bashful, be 
a king, be cautious, grateful, fierce and be bold in war. 

1319 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with sons, riches, 
happiness and pleasure, wise and be a king. 

1320 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will have many sons, will follow 
religious observation, be delighted in disposition and be highly greedy. 

1321 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be a great scholar, will be 
honoured by the king, will be endowed with the wealth of elephant (i.e. will have a large 
number of conveyance) and be averse to sinful act. 

1322 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus: will have many children, will be highly virtuous, be 
versed in justice, be delighted and be very friendly. 

1323 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of Brahmins, be dear to 


women, be very bashful and famous. 


1324 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be in the midst of king, be 
charitable, virtuous and be very wealthy. 

1325 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with virtue, will please 
others, will possess beautiful eye, be interested in Wigwam and be famous. 

1326 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will respect parent at all time, be 
pleasing be a scholar and be patient. 

1327 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be chief among the men of 

his dynasty, will have even enemies honour him, be very virtuous and be very charitable. 

1328 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will observe religious vow and 
fasting, will be devoted to God and Brahmins, charitably disposed, be truthful and kind. 

1329 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be splendorous, be learned in 
many Shastras, be virtuous and pure. 

1330 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in learning, will respect 
God and Brahmins, be inimical to others and be intelligent. 

1331 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be kind, be endowed with 
service, or duty, will have beautiful face and be worshiped by relative. 

1332 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be honoured by the ruler, be 
skillful in agricultural work, be injured, be devoid of enemies and be endowed with wealth. 
1333 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with Castraic 
leaning and wealth, will destroy his enemies, be a ruler and be highly skillful in Shastras. 

1334 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will have abundant learning, be 
great, will have beautiful knee and be free from sickness. 

1335 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in poetry and tale, 
be valorous and charitable. 

1336 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be faithful, be abundantly 
wealthy, be famous, will have many sons and be endowed with elaborate eating comfort. 
1337 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 11th Bhava: will be endowed with 
prosperity, learning and wealth, be grateful and be firmly valorous. 

1338 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be interested in visiting 
shrines, be intelligent, be learned and be devoid of diseases. 

1339 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be highly learned, be 
splendorous, will have knowledge of religious commandment, be worshiped and be 


virtuous. 


1340 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will honour Brahmins (or the 
learned), be interested in listening to divine stories, be famous and be learned in Shastras. 
1341 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be fond of garden etc., 
devoted to God, be distinguished, be attached to the virtuous and be expert in Shastras. 

1342 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 11th Bhava: will be truthful, be chief in 
his race, be very wise and be skillful in singing. 

1343 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn: will be head of all kings (be an emperor), be 


distinguished and be not delighted, but be endowed with elephants and horses. 


1344 12th 


1345 Sun, Moon in the 12th Bhava: will be short-lived, be charitable and ugly, will do the 
others’ job and will always join bad men. 

1346 Sun, Mars in the 12th Bhava: will be distressed, will have an emaciated body, be 
troubled by others, be highly sinful, wicked and devoid of good qualities. 

1347 Sun, Mercury in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of sickness, will expend on bad mission, 
be cruel, miserly, dull, not virtuous and be fond of war. 

1348 Sun, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will have vice, be dirty sickly, ungrateful, will make 
futile effort and be devoid of religion. 

1349 Sun, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will have little happiness, be ugly, be distressed due to 
the vice of his wicked wife, be fond of sin and be troubled by his libidinous disposition. 

1350 Sun, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be inimical to the public, interested in base men and 
will be burdened by expense on bad deed. 

1351 Moon, Mars in the 12th Bhava: will be hard-hearted, will have mean profession, will 

be fond of a high degree of purity, be fear stricken and be not virtuous. 

1352 Moon, Mercury in the 12th Bhava: will indulge in quarrel, be indigent, distressed be very 
fear stricken and be devoid of splendour. 

1353 Moon, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will be harsh in speech, will posses an ugly body, be 
interested in living in other countries, be devoid of wealth and be not friendly. 

1354 Moon, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be bereft of wealth, be burdened by expense, be a 
servant, be wicked, be unkind and be distressed due to anyone. 

1355 Moon, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will have bad wife, base sons, inferior grain and enmity, 


be homeless and be devoid of valour. 


1356 Mars, Mercury in the 12th Bhava: will be ugly to look at, be homeless, be troubled by 
many diseases, be not sensible and be bereft of truth and purity. 

1357 Mars, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will be very infamous, be sexually distressed, be 
miserable, be burdened by expense, be at the disposal of others and be troubled by 
relatives. 

1358 Mars, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will not have much wealth, be distressed due to sons, 
be not charitable, be always sick, be very mean and be ungrateful. 

1359 Mars, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of learning of Shastras and religious 
commandment, be troubled by wound, boil etc., will suffer eye disease, be unlucky and be 
sexually distressed. 

1360 Mercury, Jupiter: will be principally an atheist (or a degraded Brahmin), be unkind, be 
endowed with sons and relatives, be defeated by woman and be disillusioned. 

1361 Mercury, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be merciless, will have many enemies, will be of bad 
disposition, be inimical and be devoid of female and be disappointed. 

1362 Mercury, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be very cunning, be distressed due to vice, will wear 
dirty robe, be in the custody of female and be disappointed. 

1363 Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be bereft of quadruped and servants, will suffer 
from a number of diseases, will lose his wealth, will be hard-hearted and be defeated by 
enemies. 

1364 Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be hard-hearted, be defeated by women, be in the 
company of people, be timid, sinful and be blameworthy. 

1365 Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will cheat others, be devoid of history, be sick, will 
wander aimlessly and be without friend. 

1366 Sun, Moon, Mars in the 12th Bhava: will be a skillful inner, be fond of gambling, 

be ungrateful, be always diseased and will blame Brahmins. 

1367 Sun, Moon, Mercury in the 12th Bhava: will be poor, sick, illiterate, will be subjected to 
many trouble, be wicked, miserly, very greedy, libidinous and will wear dirty clothe. 

1368 Sun, Moon, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in bad society, be ugly, devoid 
of religion, will blame others and be bereft of virtue, intelligence and Castraic learning. 

1369 Sun, Moon, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will have weak neck due to sufferance from 
hunger, will lose bodily vigour, will be unabashed, be ugly, distressed and unfriendly. 

1370 Sun, Moon, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from tuberculosis, be distressed due to 


phlegmatic disease, be not splendorous, be reduced to great trouble and will suffer in the 


hand of enemies. 

1371 Sun, Manigal, Mercury in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from tuberculosis, be a dunce, be 
villainous, be devoid of Castraic learning, be interested in tale bearer and will incur royal 
displeasure. 

1372 Sun, Mars, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will lose his wealth, will have a number of evil 
friends, be dull-witted, be devoid of fame, will have ill-gotten money and acquire a bad 
wife. 

1373 Sun, Mars, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be sexually distressed, be very base, be 
devoid of good history, be very distressed sick and be fond of quarrel. 

1374 Sun, Mars, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be distressed due to heavy expenditure, be 
interested in bad act, be a dunce, be free from fear of imprisonment and will be averse to 
Shastras. 

1375 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will be libidinous, blame worthy, be very short 
tempered, be meritorious ugly, unlucky and will not be praised in the society. 

1376 Sun, Mercury, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be cunning, hard hearted, be devoid of 
distinction, be interested in tale bearer, will have an ugly appearance and will be devoid of 
desire and enthusiasm. 

1377 Sun, Mercury, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will not be in the company of good men, be not 
wealthy, be a dunce and wicked, be interested in others wives, will expend on bad mission 
and will incur royal wrath. 

1378 Sun, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will not be wealthy, be a servant, be bad in 
disposition, be wicked and distressed out of fear. 

1379 Sun, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be impetuous, will eat others’ food, be very 
mean and be devoid of wisdom, learning and education. 

1380 Sun, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be timid, valorous, devoid of justice, devoid of 
virtue and be fear stricken. 

1381 Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth and wisdom, be ill 
tempered, unjust, will have many enemies and will be a warrior. 

1382 Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will be libidinous, blame worthy, be devoid of 
sons, be interested in others’ job, be wicked and fear-filled. 

1383 Moon, Mars, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be base, fond of gambling merciless, 
splendorous, miserly and be troubled by enemies. 


1384 Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will have a bad (diseased) body, be devoid of 


his relatives, be defeated by female and be wicked in disposition. 

1385 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of kindness and be highly 
afflicted. 

1386 Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of sexual desire, be impetuous, 
indecisive, or uncertain, be interested in sinful men and be bereft of parent. 

1387 Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be distressed due to vice, be greedy, base, 
unfaithful and will cheat others. 

1388 Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be unwealthy, homeless, unwise, fond of war 
and be dishonoured. 

1389 Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be wicked, highly sinful and will have many 
vice. 

1390 Moon, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be base, will join base men, will be defeated 
by base men, be himself very base and be devoid of pleasure and virtue. 

1391 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will be highly distressed by abundant fear and 
peaceless, be very proud, be interested in good stories and will honour religious oblation, 
Brahmins and God. 

1392 Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be illiterate, unfortunate, very pious, 
merciful and be devoid of affection. 

1393 Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of learning, pleasure and wealth, 
be hard hearted and will have bad sons. 

1394 Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be wicked, will wander fruitlessly, will 

indulge in irreligious act, be splendorous and just. 

1395 Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in telling, be wounded, 
ungrateful, devoid of Castraic knowledge and be not valorous. 

1396 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, wife, visits to shrines, 
sons and fame, will also be distressed by fear. 

1397 Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will not be wise, be very cunning, be delighted and 
fierce in act. 

1398 Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be highly miserable, will befriend wicked men 
and be wise and intelligent. 

1399 Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will kill Brahmins, be not splendorous, will wear 
rag, depend on others and be devoid of relatives. 


1400 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury in the 12th Bhava: will be subjected to much trouble, will 


be distressed due to sinful tendencies and will not beget desired food. 

1401 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will be ungrateful, be not 

splendorous, be ugly, will fear much and will have many enemies. 

1402 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be troubled by others, will have 

wife and sons, be highly respected and be highly sinful. 

1403 Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will not be intelligent, be highly 
‘distinguished’ for his vice, be devoid of obstruction and will not be splendorous. 

1404 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will not be bright, will be very distressed 
due to his disease, be very timid and will be devoid of fame. 

1405 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will not have splendour, be bereft of 
wisdom and truth, be fierce and averse to sinful act. 

1406 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from serious disease, be 
ungrateful, will join mean men and be mean-minded. 

1407 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be highly ill tempered, will not have 
intelligence and money, be not bashful and will be interested in war. 

1408 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be timid, will suffer from disease of 
the rectum, will have burning sensation (or will be thirsty) and be not splendorous. 

1409 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will not be learned in Shastras, will have 
many vice, will not follow good path and will suffer from many disease. 

1410 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in base men, will be 
highly afflicted, will eat bad food, take bad drink and be very ill tempered. 

1411 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from phlegmatic and windy 
disease, will not be virtuous and will be able to guess others’ mind. 

1412 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will expend on bad mission, will be 

highly ill tempered, will have less Castraic learning and be mean-minded. 

1413 Sun, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be troubled by base men, will himself 
be very mean, be distressed and will have miserable sons. 

1414 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will not be kind, will have a wicked wife, 
be mean minded and will be bereft of wealth. 

1415 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will have an injured physique, will posses a 
prominent wife, will be free from fear of imprisonment, will face destruction of wealth. 

1416 Sun, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will not be faithful, will accuse Brahmins, 


be a miser, will have an emaciated physique and be dull-witted. 


1417 Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will suffer on account of his own kindness, 
will not have preceptor and will not have a job to do. (i.e. will be devoid of livelihood). 

1418 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will not be patient, will be very ill 
tempered, will lose truthful disposition and will be devoid of wife. 

1419 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be a miser, will suffer from sickness, 
be devoid of desire and will be troubled by king and thieve. 

1420 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from bilious complaint, will 
be devoid of preceptor and will be miserable on account of female company. 

1421 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be very fierce in disposition, will 
invite risk, will indulge in inimical activities, will be expelled out of his caste and will be 
blamed by the society. 

1422 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be very afflicted, will be interested 

in others’ wives, will expend on bad thing and will suffer from disease. 

1423 Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be bereft of sons, will resemble ‘fire’ 
in appearance, will be interested in sinful tale, will be defeated by female and servant. 

1424 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be a bad mater, be not pure, will be 
devoid of wealth, be unkind, be fond of intoxicant drink and will have bad disposition. 

1425 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be mean, irascible, uncharitable, 
defeated by women be unkind and will not demonstrate, or prove himself. 

1426 Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be impetuous, wicked, will have an 
injured body, will have burning sensation and will be blamed by people. 

1427 Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wisdom, be not virtuous, 
be troubled by others and be a miser. 

1428 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will not be bright, be deformed (or 
distressed), be ugly, be blameworthy and be bereft of friendship. 

1429 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be sinful, defeated, be troubled by 
women, will have little education, be dejected and fear stricken. 

1430 Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be mean, will join bad people, will 
adopt others’ religion, will spend on bad thing and be amiable to Brahmins. 

1431 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be homeless, unfriendly, will suffer from 
lever disorder and will incur royal displeasure. 

1432 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter in the 12th Bhava: will wear rag, be devoid of 


affection, will have enemies, be greedy, will perform his duties and be delighted. 


1433 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will indulge in bad act, will be 
friend bad people, be blameworthy, be always sick and be troubled by relatives. 

1434 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in Molims, be 
attached to others’ women and will serve bad society. 

1435 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of fame, be against 
society, will have blame worthy religion and blameworthy business. 

1436 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be very miserable, be 

subjected to trouble out of disease, will always be sick, be timid and will have little wealth. 
1437 Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of fame, be 

interested in drink, be cunning in disposition, be hard-hearted, fierce and inimical. 

1438 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be quite miserable, be 
interested in wicked people’ company, be highly phlegmatic, be dull-witted and 
blameworthy. 

1439 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be inimical to his castemen, will 
be devoid of good qualities and be artificial in disposition. 

1440 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be a principal cheat, be very 
cruel and will be won over by mean people. 

1441 Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be very rich, be sensuous, 
blameworthy, fierce and timid. 

1442 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be bereft of mercy, will lose 
his wife and children, will eat veraciously and will be harsh in speech. 

1443 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, wife and 
vice be harsh, inimical and bad in disposition. 

1444 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will not be wealthy, be fierce, be 
fond of quarrel, be ugly and will cheat others. 

1445 Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will suffer from various kind of 
disease, will be interested in befriending bad people, will be very libidinous and be timid. 
1446 Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be dull witted, will have a bad 
body, will have fearful eye, be inimical to Brahmins, be defeated by enemies and be 
impetuous. 

1447 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be fond of telling, be against, 
greatness, be devoid of his own men and will have wounded body. 


1448 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will become trayed, be against 


friendly principle, be not kind and be irascible. 

1449 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will betray, be illiterate, be devoid 
of wife and sons and will be inimical to the king. 

1450 Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be interested in mean women, 
be interested in undesirable friendship, religion and learning and be very sinful. 

1451 Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will always be troubled by injuries, 
will be possessing bad thinking, be homeless, be not splendorous and be ugly. 

1452 Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of wealth, be fierce, 
be fond of quarrel and will have lo of wisdom and wealth. 

1453 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus in the 12th Bhava: will be devoid of 

brightness, be interested in joining others’ ideas, will obstruct Brahmins and will cheat 

others. 

1454 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be ungrateful, will 

have many enemies, be not bashful and will be in a position to guess others’ mind. 

1455 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will be quite sickly, be 

bereft of money and sons, be unkind, miser and will have a beautiful wife. 

1456 Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will have short life, be 

devoid of fame and money, will make futile effort and be ill tempered. 

1457 Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will always be indolent, will 
be devoid of wisdom and wealth and will have wicked wife and wicked sons. 

1458 Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will have no place to resort, 
will derive mean pleasure, will suffer from penury, be untruthful and not virtuous. 

1459 Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will hate Brahmins, be 
bereft of fame and happiness, be not splendorous and will suffer from many diseases. 

1460 Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn in the 12th Bhava: will indulge in 
inimical activities, will not be self-respected, will always suffer from penury and will be 


devoid of wealth and grain. 


