TARS, 27 GODS 


THE ASTROLOGICAL MYTHOLOGY 
OF ANCIENT I 


ee 


nad . {——. 
— sh Cae Y 
sy es ae ~ 


Ties : 7, Sie - 
‘a OO TRE : 


Vv) OR) 


27 Gods 
2/7 Stars 


The Astrological Mythology 
of Ancient India 


By Vic DiCara 
(Vraja Kishor das) 


Contents 
Introduction 
The Beautiful Stallion ~ Asvini 


Labor Pains ~ Bharani 


The Sharp Blade ~ Krttika 

The Blushing Bride ~ Rohini 

The Quest ~ M r gasirs a 

The Storm ~ Ardra 

Repeating Patterns ~ Punarvasu 

The Highest Blossom ~ Pusya 
Serpentine Embrace ~ Aslesa 

Inherited Power ~ Magha 

Romantic Enjoyment ~ Purva Phalguni 
Vows of Friendship ~ Uttara Phalguni 
Dexterity ~ Hasta 

Multifaceted Brilliance ~ Citra 
Individuality ~ Svati 

Obsession ~ Visakha 


Devotion ~ Anuradha 


Eminence ~ Jyestha 

Uprooting ~ Mula 

The Invincible ~ Purva Asadha 
Complete Victory ~ Uttara Asadha 
Listening Carefully ~ Sravana 
Getting Practical ~ Dhanistha 

The Underworld ~ Satabhisaj 
Destruction ~ Purva Bhadrapada 


The Depths ~ Uttara Bhadrapada 
Abundance ~ Revati 


Interpretive Implications of the 27 Stars 
The 28 Star ~ Abhijit 


Introduction 


Look up at the night sky; countless stars will delight and fascinate you! The most beautiful 
object in the nighttime sky has got to be the Moon. It particularly captivated the hearts and 
minds of ancient Indians — who watched it travel through the glistening circle of stars 
every 27 days. 


So the Indians, like many other ancient cultures, developed 27 constellations. They 
conceived of these heavenly lights as repositories of the powers of the gods. 


Indian astrology, often called “Vedic Astrology,” has become quite popular throughout the 
world today. The true heart of this astrology, its original core, is the 27 stars. To interpret 
their meaning, the most important thing to have is a deep and lucid understanding of the 
gods that empower them. 


Before diving into this exciting topic, please allow me to address a few important 
misconceptions about the stars 


The Stars are not the Signs 


The most prevalent and long-standing misconception about the 27 stars is that they are 
permanently linked with certain zodiac signs. 


The 12 zodiac signs are based on the movement of the Sun, which we measure by 
observing its solstices and equinoxes. The 27 constellations are based on the movement of 
the Moon, which we measure by observing it moving through the stars. These different 
ways of measuring space don’t stay aligned to one another: they slowly but constantly 
change their orientation to one another. So, there is no permanent relationship between 
the stars and the signs. 


Indians have known this since antiquity. 


Books written by them at different points in history acknowledge different stars 
as being the “first” by virtue of rising with the equinox.[1] 


The Puranas note that the big dipper gradually changes its orientation to the 
horizon.|[2 | 


Surya Siddhanta explicitly states that the equinox moves in relation to the stars. 


[3] 


A clear distinction between stars and tropical signs is made throughout 
Sanskrit literature. [4] 


Although the ancient Indians were well aware of the fundamental difference between 
signs and stars, it became confused in the post-classical era of Indian astrology. Over the 
last several centuries they fused the two, creating the misconception that the 12 signs are 
stellar, and that the 27 stars are some sort of secondary, awkward subdivision of them. 


At least while you are reading this book, please try to forget this misconception, and 
whatever you might have learned about the 27 stars that explains them as if they were 
subdivisions of zodiac signs. Since there is no permanent relation between stars and 
signs, the meaning of the stars has nothing to do with the signs they temporarily coincide 
with. 


The Stars have no “Planetary Lords” 

Another prevalent misconception is that the stars have “planetary lords” who play a role 
in forming the character of the star. This mistaken idea arises because Indian astrology 
associates the stars to specific planets when calculating astrological time phases 
(naksatra-dasd@). But even then there is no permanent correlation between planets and 
stars because there are dozens of naksatra-dasd systems, and each one associates 
different planets with different stars. 


At least for now, please forget any explanation of the 27 stars that talks about their 
“planetary lords.” The 27 Stars are ruled by gods, not by planets. 


To Understand the Stars, 


You Must Understand the Gods 


The easiest way to deeply and clearly understand the 27 Vedic stars is to deeply and 
clearly understand the Vedic gods that empower them. That is a big task, but if we let the 
name and symbol of each star focus our attention on specific aspects of the gods, we will 
in the course of a single small book be able to communicate a very effective and 
significant intimacy with these ancient stars. 


Most of the book will familiarize you with the 27 gods of these stars, highlighting the 
astrological relevance of names, symbols and myths. At the end of the book, I will 
summarize in a concise format the practical astrological effect of each star. 


The Beautiful Stallion ~ Asvini 


Meaning 
Symbol 
Twin gods of health 


B and y Arietis 


The horse is a symbol of beauty and health: both of which are instrumental in enjoying 
life. So, it is a perfect symbol to summarize the nature of ASsvini. 


I will tell you some tales about the gods of Asvint, highlighting their connection to the 
horse symbol. 


Born from Horses 

Visnu Purana (2.3): The Sun’s wife needs a break now and then. Her husband is hot — 
literally. So she regularly goes off to recuperate and build up her strength again to deal 
with his immense heat. She didn’t want to depress or insult her husband so, being a 
goddess and no ordinary woman, she came up with the idea to make a clone of herself to 
take care of normal affairs in her absence. She hoped the Sun god would not even notice 
her absence. 


Surya (the Sun god) already had three children with her: Manu (from whom came human 
beings), Yama (lord of death) and Yami (the river Yamuna). Now, while his wife was 
away, he made three more children with her clone: Sani (the god of Saturn), a second 
Manu, and Tapati (another river). 


All was well and good until one day the clone-wife got really angry and cursed her “son” 
Yama. Sirya realized, “This can’t be Yama’s mother. A mother would never curse her 
own son so harshly.” Sirya took the form of a horse and tracked his real wife to a forest 
where she was meditating for recuperation. She also took the form of a horse and tried to 
flee. Surya caught up to her and, as horses, they had a third batch of three children: The 
ASvini twins and a son named Revanta. 


Mahabharata Adi.66.35 adds that the twins were born from each nostril of their horse- 
mother. 


So, the gods of ASvint were born from horses. 


The Horse Head Loophole 


Rg Veda (22.116): Indra (king of the gods) knew a how to produce secret, powerful 
elixirs like Soma and did not want this knowledge to get into the wrong hands. He taught it 
to the sage Dadichi but laid a curse upon him: “If you teach this to anyone your head must 
come off.” 


The ASsvini twins wanted to learn this secret! So, being master surgeons, they cut off the 
sage’s head and the head of a horse and swapped the two. Through “the horse’s mouth” 
they learned the secrets they sought. Then they swapped the heads back to their original 
owners. Thus they made a loophole which diffused the curse of Indra. 


This illustrates that skill in surgery is a theme of Asvini. 


Curing the Blindness of a Friend 

Rg Veda (16.115): Once, the divine horse that belonged to the Asvini twins took the shape 
of a wolf. One young man collected 100 goats from the locals and fed them to this wolf. 
The man’s father became very angry that his son stole from others, and cursed his son to 
become blind. The young man appealed to the Asvini twins, who were very sympathetic 
and cured his blindness. 


This illustrates that Asvini’s medical expertise is particularly suited towards 
improving sensual acuity, “curing blindness.” 


Curing a Blind Old Sage 

Devi Bhagavata (7) & Srimad Bhagavatam (9.3): A beautiful young princess named 
Sukanya once semi-unknowingly poked the eyes of an old hermit named Cyavana, making 
him blind. To apologize for the act, she married him and cared for him very faithfully and 
wonderfully. 


One day the Asvini twins saw her alone, collecting various things from the deep forest 
where she lived with the hermit. They boldly proposed that she abandon the old blind man 
and take one of them as her new husband. She became very angry with them and said, “If 
you don’t shut up and get out of here, my curses will burn you to ashes!” 


The twins were extremely impressed and proposed a new idea. “OK,” they said, “We 
will repair your husband’s blindness and we will make him completely youthful and 
handsome. How does that sound?” 


It sounded very suspicious to her. “What’s the catch?” She asked. 


“The catch is,” they answered, “once this is done you will not be able to visually 
distinguish him from us. And you will have to pick which one of the three of us is really 
your husband. Whomever you select will then be your husband from that moment on.” 


She didn’t like the idea at all, but didn’t want her husband to miss the opportunity to 
regain his sight. So she took the twin gods home and explained the situation to her 
husband. “Oh, that’s fine. No problem,” her husband said with complete confidence. 
“Let’s do it immediately.” 


So the twins took the hermit to a nearby lake and the three of them entered it. When they 
later emerged from the lake all three looked alike: glowingly youthful and handsome men 
with perfect eyesight. Praying to her goddess for protection the young princess easily 
selected her true husband from the look-alikes. The ASsvini twins were quite pleased to 
witness the deep purity of this woman. 


This story illustrates many themes of Asvini: medical marvels, health, beauty, 
vision, loyalty, and an appetite for enjoyment. 


Curing a Blind Disciple 
Mahabharata (Adi.3.34-77): A guru had a very plump disciple who tended to his cows. 
He asked, “My dear boy, why are you so fat?” 


“T beg alms from the householders.” 


“The student should beg on behalf of the guru, not on his own behalf. So give those alms 
to me,” the Guru said. 


But several days later, the disciple was still fat. “Why are you still fat?” the Guru asked. 
“After begging for you I again beg to get my meals,” the disciple explained. 


“That is no good,” said the guru. “You are making people give you all their food. How 
will they eat? Don’t do that anymore.” 


Several days later the disciple was still fat. “Why are you still fat?” 

“T milk the cows and drink,” said the disciple. 

“Why? Those are my cows, not yours. Don’t do that anymore.” 

But several days later the disciple was still fat. “Why?” asked the guru. 
“When the calves drink, I drink what they spill.” 


“Don’t do that,” replied the guru. “Calves are naturally sympathetic. They are spilling the 
milk on purpose for your sake and are going hungry themselves.” 


Now the disciple was really getting hungry. He would grab some leaves from the trees 
and eat them. They were horrible and poisonous and made him go blind in a few days. 
With failing vision he fell painfully into a well. The guru found him there and said, “Just 
pray to the Asvini twins. They will cure your blindness.” Then he left. 


The disciple did so. The twins appeared before him and said, “Eat this cake it will cure 


3” 


you. 


“T can’t eat what I get from others. I must give everything to my guru.” 


“Tt’s OK,” explained the Asvini. “Your guru himself fell into the same situation as you and 
we cured him in this same manner. He did not offer the medicinal cake to his guru, he just 
ate it. You can follow his example.” 


“No, no. I cannot. I will have to remain blind if I cannot give this bread to my guru.” 


The ASvini were so impressed they blessed him, “Your blindness is cured! You will 
always be prosperous and happy. Your teeth will be pure gold, and your guru’s teeth will 


turn to iron.” It immediately came to pass. 


The guru was very pleased to have broadcast the superexcellent dedication of his disciple 
(And it doesn’t seem like he was troubled much by his iron teeth, either.) This illustrates 
the same themes as the previous two stories. 


Miscellaneous 


Mahabharata (Drona.62.3): A male once became pregnant. Of course the baby could not 
be delivered normally. The Asvini twins performed a caesarean birth. This illustrates the 
power of ASvini to perform medical marvels. 


Rg Veda (11.112) says that the Asvini can bring rain during a draught. Similarly Rg (9.16) 
says the Asvini dug a hole in the desert and it became a well. This is probably a 
glorification of the star to communicate the fact that many problems can be overcome by 
starting the effort when the Moon is in Asvini. 


Worship of the ASvini Kumara improves beauty. 


Labor Pains ~ Bharani 


Symbol 


Main Stars | The dim triangle: 41, 39 and 25 
Arietis. 
. are e ¢« : . , “ 


The name Bharani comes from the word bharana, which means, “to maintain, bear, 
support.” The English phrase, “bearing children” or “labor pains” expresses it perfectly. 
The vulva is an excellent symbol for Bharani because it symbolizes bearing children, 
which itself summarizes the main characteristic of this star: bringing new life into the 
world at the cost of great labor and pain. 


It seems odd that the powers of Yama, the god of death, reside in the star which bears new 
life. This highlights the fact that life and death are inseparable and new life is impossible 

without the death of the old. As expressed by Sri Krsna in Bhagavad-Gita (2.27): “Death 
is certain for one who is born. 

Birth is certain for one who dies.” 


Life Needs Death 


The fundamental character of Bharani is that good things cannot come without difficulties. 
Illustrating this, Mahabharata (Vana.142) tells a story of life being unable to continue 
without death. The story takes place in the “First Age” of history, during which time 
humans have extremely long lifespans. Yama, the god of death, therefore thought it would 
be OK to take a break for a while. But the population of the Earth quickly became too 
great and she could not support everyone. Overpopulation began to cause serious 
problems. The gods appealed to Visnu, who took the form of a boar to lend strength to the 
Earth. Yama came back to his duties (making sure people die) and the situation came back 
to normal. 


In another section (Adi.199), Mahabharata tells a similar story. Yama once took the 
position of chief priest in a very long religious ritual, putting his duties as the god of death 
on hold for many, many years. Everything was getting out of balance in the world because 
no one was dying, so all the gods begged Yama to stop and go back to his normal duties. 
When he did, people started dying again and everything returned to normal. 


Death may not be pleasant, but it is good and important. Bharanzt is like that: 
it contains the sacrifices that must be made to produce something worthwhile; 
difficulties must be endured to produce something great. 


Death of Death 

This next story illustrates a similar point. There are a few slightly different versions it, 
this telling is found in Padma Purana: Once upon a time, a young boy was told that he 
would die when he turned sixteen. Seeking protection from this fate, the boy sat in yogic 
meditation before a deity of Siva. When he turned sixteen, the agents of Yama tried to take 
him, but could not approach him due to the power he had accumulated. Yama himself 
appeared personally with his noose. But when he threw the noose, the boy leapt upon and 
embraced his deity, crying for protection. The noose encircled both the boy and the deity, 
who became furious at what Yama appeared to be attempting. The deity sprang to life and 
burned Yama to ashes. 


All the gods appealed to Siva to reconsider what he had just done. Without death, how 
would the world continue to function as it was intended by Visnu? Accepting this, Siva 
brought Yama back to life after granting the boy, Markendeya, an extremely long lifespan. 


Like the boy, we also try to escape the challenges of Bharani. But as the story 
goes his efforts caused more harm than good, creating a calamity that 
required extensive divine intervention and troubled all the gods. We are not 
supposed to avoid Bharani. We are supposed to embrace it just as a mother 
must embrace labor contractions if she wishes to later embrace her beautiful 
child. 


The boy meditated upon a famous mantra from Rg (7.59.12) and Yajur Veda, the maha- 
mrtyurh-jaya (“the great triumph over death”). This mantra can be effective for dealing 
with Bharani if one chants it with the intention not escape ones difficulties, but to prosper 
from them: Om 

tryambakam yajamahe 

sugandhim pusti-vardhanam 

urvarukam iva bandhanan 

mrtyor muksiya mamrtat. 


Escaping Bharani 

Srimad Bhagavatam (6.1-3) tells the story of a man who did escape the noose of Yama: 
Once, there was a pious man who worshipped Narayana (Visnu), but whose mind got 
infected with base desires upon seeing lewd behavior. He soon abandoned his family and 
dedicated everything he had to a prostitute. Eventually they had a child, whom he named 
Narayana. At the moment of his death, he saw the agents of Yama approaching and cried 
out for his son, “Narayana!" 


The agents of Visnu arrived immediately and forbade the agents of Yama from taking the 
man. “A person able to fix their minds on God while they are dying does not require any 
additional corrections,” they declared. Yama himself agreed that this was true. The man 
was released and engaged in purifying deeds for the rest of his life before attaining 
liberation. 


As illustrated here, the names of Visnu help us deal productively with the labor pains of 
Bharani, by making us more devotional and self-sacrificing. The man in this story was 
even more successful than the boy in the previous story. So the most efficacious mantra for 
dealing productively with Bharani is one composed of Visnu’s names. Kali Santarana 
Upanishad (an appendix to Yajur Veda) specifically recommends: hare krsna, hare krsna, 
krsna krsna, hare hare 

hare rama, hare rama, rama rama, hare hare 


Restriction 


Bharani is like the child cramped within the womb: It is a difficult star of struggles and 
restrictions. Indeed, the name of the god of death, Yama, literally means restriction / 
regulation. Death is merely the ultimate regulation, the most inescapable restriction. 


In Bhagavad-Gita (10.29), Sri Krsna says: yamah sarhyamatam aham 
“Among enforcers I am Yama.” 


Bharani represents difficulties we must face before we can prosper. It is a star of yama: 
limitation and restriction. To face such trials we must develop yama: self-control. 


Note on Yama and Dharma 

The god of death (Yama) and the god of morality (Dharma) are different beings, frequently 
confused to be one. It’s easy to see how this confusion would arise: Dharma (the god of 
morality) is also called Yama because morality requires self-control (vama). And Yama 
(the god of death) is also called Dharma - because he judges people after death on the 
basis of their morality (dharma). Despite sharing names, however, they are different 
beings, and it is Yama, not Dharma, who empowers Bharani. 


The Sharp Blade ~ Krttika 


The word krttika comes from the root krtta / kartati, meaning “cut, divide.” Obviously 
the symbol of sharp blades is fitting. But the word is also related to the root krt which 
means “assemble, accomplish.” So the sharpness of Krttika is not a barbarian blade! It is 
a careful tool of precise subdivision. Similarly, Krttika is a star of insight, incisiveness, 
disassembly of complex things, and detailed comprehension. 


Agni, the god of fire, empowers Krttika. Fire has two qualities: it is bright, and it is hot. 
Brightness illuminates. Heat burns, or “digests” — it liberates the energy within things. 
Krttika is not only incisive but “bright.” It is a star of intellectual, brilliant insights and the 
ability to quickly digest concepts and ideas. The English word “critical” likely comes 
from krttikd. It is a star of incisive, critical thought. 


Krttika is not a good star for anything requiring tenderness, but it is excellent for analysis, 
rapid and accurate assessment, and the ability to cut through problems and confusions. 


The Sharp, Divided Child of Fire 


To tell you this story, I will combine the versions given in Mahabharata (Vana.223-227), 
Valmiki Ramayana (Balakanda.36) and Brahmanda Purana (81): Once, during a ritual, 
Agni saw the wives of the seven sages and fell in love with them. He transformed into 
their household fire to clandestinely gaze upon their beauty. But eventually he reproached 
himself thoroughly and went off to the forest to lament his broken heart. 


A goddess named Svaha had been in love with Agfi for a long time, and saw this as her 
chance. She assumed the appearance of one of the sage’s wives and ran to Agfi, saying, “I 
am Siva, the wife of Sage Angiras. I have come to fulfill all your desires.” 


After their intercourse she transformed into a bird, and flew to a legendary mountain from 
which the sun rises. There she threw Agni’s semen into a lake. Then she assumed the form 
of the wife of a different sage and repeated the whole process five more times. She could 
not impersonate the seventh wife, Arundhati, due to the power of Arundhati’s devotion to 
her husband Vasistha. 


Meanwhile, an anti-god named Taraka rose to power and conquered all the gods on the 
strength of a benediction that only a seven-day-old child could kill him. 


The gods tried to have children, but because of a curse they could not. Not even Siva and 
his wife Parvati could conceive, even after attempting for 100 celestial years! Their 
powerful efforts put the universe into distress and the gods requested that Siva and Parvati 
desist. Siva, however, was interrupted just in the process of discharging semen. He said, 
“You’ ve infuriated my wife by this disruption! Now tell me, what womb shall bear my 
seed?” 


The gods suggested that the Earth become the womb. This infuriated Parvati even further 
and she cursed the Earth to be unable to bear the child. Siva’s seed caused a great 
disturbance to the earth and there were floods and havoc. The gods requested powerful 
Agni, the god of fire, to bear the seed — so he took it within the womb of flame. But he too 
fell under the angry curse of Parvati and could not develop the seed into a child. The 
effort exhausted him and fire began to dim and cool. Agfi approached the goddess 
Ganges, who said, “Put the seed into my waters.” But she also faced failure and 
frustration until she learned that Agni’s seed had been planted five times beside a lake on 
the Mountain of Sunrise. She added Siva’s to this. 


The mountain soon gave birth to a ferociously powerful child, who began destroying the 
hillside and howling with a voice like thunder. 


The seven sages attempted to remedy this terrible disturbance. The inhabitants of the 
forest told them that six of their wives were to blame. In anger, the sages divorced those 


six wives and sent them away. (They cut off their wives, divorced them — the literal 
meaning of Krttika is to cut off and separate).[5] 


The child could not be pacified and even the gods dared not openly oppose him. Instead 
they sent the six divorced wives of the sages (the Krttikas) to tame the child and then kill 
him with poison on their breasts. But the women became compassionate towards the boy 
and accepted him as if he truly were their own son. 


Since six women came to feed him, he split (“krttika”) into six forms to nurse from each 
mother simultaneously. He is known as Kartikeya because he was nursed by the Krttika. 


Pacified by these six mothers, the child then greeted his father Agfi. 


Next arrived Siva, Parvati, the Earth Goddess and Ganga. All of whom had valid claims 
to being his parent. The boy had six forms. One of them remained with the six Krttikas, 
another remained with Agni, another went to Siva, Parvati, Ganga, and to the Earth. 


When the supernatural child was only seven days old, the gods put him in charge of their 
armies and attacked the anti-gods. The powerful newborn destroyed Taraka and returned 
the balance of power to the gods. 


Killing Children 
Mahabharata (Vana.230): Agni’s child told his six mothers, “Until I am sixteen years old, 
I will be an evil spirit killing children, slicing them up and eating them.” 


It is well known that warfare kills children and deprives them of their parents. 
Fire, which creates acidity in organisms, also diminishes fertility. Thus 
Krttika is inauspicious for children and childbirth; as it is for all things that 
require gentleness and softness. 


The Story of Sibi 


This story from Mahabharata (Vana.131) involves Agfii and slicing, and is a great tale, so 
I will tell it here, in spite of the fact that it may not be entirely relevant to the astrological 
nature of Krttika: A King named Sibi was the most generous and charitable person in 
history. Indra and Agni wanted to demonstrate the extent of his willingness for self- 
sacrifice so Aghi became a dove and flew onto the king’s lap while Indra became a hawk 
who tried to swoop down to eat the dove. 


The king drove off the hawk, who then protested, “Why have you stolen my food?” 


The king replied, “The dove has taken shelter of me, so I must protect it. Since you are 
hungry, I will feed you something else.” 


But the hawk would not accept anything in exchange for the dove. Sibi even offered his 
entire kingdom to the hawk, to no avail. Finally, the hawk accepted an amount of Sibi’s 
own flesh equal to the weight of the dove. 


When Sibi placed the dove and a piece of his thigh ona scale, the dove was heavier. 
Again and again he would slice off his flesh, but no matter how much he added, the dove 
was always heavier. When the terribly wounded king was about to put his entire body 
onto the scale, Agfii and Indra took their original forms, blessed him and brought him into 
paradise. 


The Blushing Bride ~ Rohini 


produce; Banyan tree 


Everything about this star symbolizes fertile creativity. 


The name Rohini means, “red-girl.” That literally means a girl who is fertile, 
having entered puberty and begun her menstruation. Or you can take it as a 
“blushing bride.” Either way, Rohini means “procreation”, and procreation 
means creativity and fertility. 


Rohini’s symbol, a bull, is a symbol of male fertility. The bull pulls a cart 
overflowing with produce; another symbol of fertility. 


Rohini’s other symbol, a tree, is a symbol of fertility because trees produce 
fruit, which are symbolic of children. The specific tree that symbolizes Rohini 
is the Banyan, which is a particular symbol for fertility and growth because the 
Banyan tree never stops growing and expanding. 


Rohini’s deity, Brahma, is the father of all creatures, the original progenitor, 


and is therefore a symbol of fertility. Brahma is also the creator of everything in 
the universe, and thus a symbol of creativity. 


Rohini is most certainly the star of fertility & creativity, accompanied by passion and 
beauty. 


Let’s explore who Brahma is and hear some stories connected with him, to better 
appreciate the fertile creative energy and passion within his star, Rohini. 


The God of Creativity 


Hinduism is often portrayed to Christianized audiences as having a concept of “trinity” 
because Indian thought conceives of the world as being composed of three basic forces. 
In truth, however, the Indian concept is less like the Christian trinity and more like modern 
color theory, which states that three primary colors combine in various ratios to create an 
infinite spectrum. 


The three primary forces are sattva, rajas, and tamas. 


Sattva = clarity, light, balance, peace Rajas = redness, passion, desire, action 
Tamas = shadow, darkness, stability, sleep These three forces cause three essential 
universal events: maintenance, creation, and destruction. Three extremely powerful beings 
command the three forces and therefore command the three universal events. Visnu keeps 
things existing by commanding the force of clarity, sattva. Brahma creates things by 
commanding the reddening force, rajas. Siva destroys things by commanding the force of 
shadow, tamas. 


Brahma is the deity of the reddening power of creation and passion, rajas. So he is 
naturally the deity of the red star Rohint. Rohini is a star of rajas: fertility, passion, 
motivation, and creative powers of all sorts. 


Tale of Creation 

Vedic literature gives us a few different angles on the birth of Brahma and how he created 
the world.[6] I will incorporate all these as I present you the Puranic tale of creation: 
Before all else, there is consciousness. It is full of inherent joy and bliss. 


Joy is not stagnant. By nature it is ever-amplifying. Amplification implies an original 
signal and a distinct entity to amplify that signal. Plurality is therefore inherent in the 
original singular consciousness. Since joy does not thrive in loneliness, an infinite number 
of beings eternally center around the original consciousness. 


Those infinite beings possess freewill, and are free to be non-cooperative with this 
scenario. Therefore a mirror image of reality exists, where the centrality of the original 
consciousness is hidden in “darkness”, and the peripheral spark of freewill can imagine 
herself to be central. 


Into this darkness the original consciousness expands as Purusa, the original Visnu. Purusa 
reclines there on “the ocean of causes and possibilities.” While partially submerged in the 
waters an infinite number of bubbles exhale from the pores of his body. Some tales 
portray these bubbles as “eggs,” specifically as golden eggs. This is because an egg is 
circular and contains within it the materials and energies required to create something 
new. The egg is golden because it glows with conscious power, being a radiation from the 
divine all-conscious body of the Purusa. These bubble-eggs are the proto-solar-systems 
floating in the vast ocean of causality, space. 


Eggs require seeds before they create anything. Therefore the Purusa penetrates into each 
of them. Within each egg he again reclines on a “cosmic ocean.” While partially 
submerged in this ocean, some of its water collects in his naval, in which a “lotus flower” 
grows. 


Flowers reproduce asexually, and are therefore a fitting vehicle through which to deliver 
the very first being into the world.[7] When the flower at the top of that lotus opened its 
petals, the god of creation Brahma sat upon its central whorl. 


At first Brahma did not know who he was, what he was supposed to do, or how he was 
supposed to do it. He climbed down the stem of the lotus but couldn’t find its end. He 
looked around in all other directions and thus developed five heads (east, west, north, 
south, and up) — later Siva removed one of these.[8] Yet Brahma could find no clue to 
answer any of his questions. 


Then the Purusa spoke a single word, which Brahma heard as a voice from the vastness of 


space: “tapa.” This was an instruction to Brahma, “Be still. Control yourself. Be humble. 
Then you will understand.” 


Brahma practiced stillness and self-control, and as a result his mind became receptive to 
a full transmission of knowledge from Visnu. In that transmission he received everything 
he needed to know, including the blueprint of how to use the primordial energies 
available within the “egg” to assemble all the various forms and creations of the universe. 


Before Brahma, there was nothing but what we might call subatomic quantums. Everything 
which now exists is a creation of Brahma or a subsequent creation of his creation. 


Let’s stop for a moment to consider how immensely creative Brahma must be. He is the 
creator of the entire universe, the most creative being in it! Perhaps now we can 
appreciate how his star, Rohini, abounds in creative power. 


The Original Father 


Brahma was born before anyone else, and everyone else was born from him (with very 
few exceptions). Thus an often used name for Brahma is Prajapati, the original 
“progenitor.” Brahma created many other prajapati to help him populate the world, but 
when Prajapati is used in a singular, specific manner it refers specifically to Brahma. 


Brahma created many beings directly from his thoughts, so we should know that his star, 
Rohini, is imaginative and full of creative thoughts and ideas. Brahma also creates ina 
more conventional manner, so we should know that Rohini has strong procreative and 
romantic passions. 


Brahma Marries His Daughter 

Regarding more conventional procreation, Srimad Bhagavatam (3.12) tells a story too 
interesting not to mention. For Brahma to reproduce sexually he must first create his own 
wife. So, ina sense, his wife must be his “daughter”. 


Her name is Vak (the power of speech, another name for Sarasvati, the goddess of 
learning), and she was not at all into the idea. When Brahma began pressuring her, his 
other children stopped him in protest. Ashamed of himself, Brahma abandoned his body 
and created a new one, to wash off the impurity of his thoughts. The old body turned into a 
dangerous fog in the darkness. 


Later on Vak agreed to marry Brahma, seeing his predicament, but the two are not a happy 
couple and live at a distance from one another. 


Father of Siva 
Srimad Bhagavatam (3.12) describes Siva as the child of Brahma. 


Brahma became furious that his quadruplet sons refused to take up the important duty of 
procreation, in favor of pursuing celibacy for spiritual reasons. From between his 
furrowed eyebrows, Brahma’s anger sprang forth personified as Rudra, who later became 
known as Siva. 


I will tell you this story in more detail when we come to Rudra’s star, Ardra. 


Visnu is the first god because he controls the power of sattva, the energy of existence 
itself. Existence cannot manifest itself, however, without creation — so from Visnu comes 
the god of creativity (rajas),Brahma. However, whatever is created must be destroyed, 
and without destruction (tamas) there is no room for creation. Thus rajas always invokes 
tamas — and therefore the god of tamas (Siva) emerges from the god of rajas (Brahma). 


Although Rohini is a beautiful and pleasant star, it, like Brahma also has a brief but hot 
temper when frustrated.[9] 


The Quest ~ Mr gasir s a 


Meaning 
Symbol 


Mrga means a forest animal, especially deer. These animals are so named because they 
constantly roam in search of food; matching the literal meaning of the word: “searcher.” 


Mrgasirsa’s symbol — a deer sniffing the ground — is essentially a literal depiction of the 
word Mrgasirsa (“Deer’s face”). 


Soma is the deity of Mrgasirsa. Soma comes up in Bhagavad-Gita (15.13), when Sri 
Krsna says, pusnami causadhih sarvah somo bhutva rasatmakah 


“T become Soma and make plants delicious and nourishing.” 


Soma is the god of a legendary elixir (also named Soma) that grants eternal youth and 
unsurpassed delight. I think it is simplest to describe Soma as the “fountain of youth.” This 
ties in nicely with the nature of MrgaSirsa to inspire quests and searches. 


Literally, the word soma means “juice, sap, liquid.” Specifically, it is the liquid within 
plants that makes them nourishing and delicious. Nourishment keeps us young, 


deliciousness delights us; so all food is a type of Soma. The legendary elixir is simply the 
ultimate form of food. 


Vedic lore singles out one plant with the name soma-valli, for it excels all others in 
nutrition and flavor. It is now extinct, but they say that millennia ago it grew ina few 
specific areas,[10] and its leaves blossomed and withered with the waxing and waning 
Moon. By pressing the juice from its stalks one could make a beverage called Soma or 
Amrta — the “nectar of immortality,” which the gods copiously drink to become powerful 
and impossible to kill. 


All vegetable-food carries the power of life in it. So ina sense, all food is amrta. If we 
don’t eat, we die (mrta). If we eat, we don’t die (a-mrta). All food makes us “immortal” 
because it counteracts mortality. But the elixir made from the Soma plant is a super-food 
of legendary power. Humans and gods alike from all ages and cultures eternally search for 
it, like deer sniffing out its trail. 


The deer of Mrgasirsa sniffs the ground in search of Soma in healthy and delicious herbs, 
but the human spirit sniffs at the paths of life in search of Soma in the form of eternality 
and bliss. 


Mrgasirsa is all about searching. 


Soma, Amrta, Rasa 

I mentioned that foods, among which Soma is the emperor, have two qualities: they keep 
us alive, and give us pleasure. Rg Veda (9), a section entirely dedicated to Soma, 
confirms this, saying that Soma (1) gives immortality, and (2) “roars”. 


Soma is also called Amrta (“imortality”). Rg 9.42 goes so far as to call Soma the 
“immortality of the immortals” and the “godhood of the gods.” 


The second quality of Soma, however, is even more interesting. Sure, staying alive is 
important, but what is the point of living? Rg 9 presents Soma to us as an answer: the 
point of living is to enjoy, to “roar,” to revel and enjoy; to taste rasa — ecstatic joy. Thus 
another synonym for Soma is Rasa. 


Taittiriya Upanishad (Ananda.7) speaks of rasa: raso vai sah 
rasam hy evayam labdhvanandi bhavati “He is certainly rasa itself! 
Attain his rasa and become undoubtedly intoxicated with bliss!” 


Directly or indirectly, consciously or not, we are all on a quest seeking rasa. Our 
ambition may be smashed into a lower, smaller shape by the hammer of repeated failure, 
but rasa is the real thirst behind every desire. MrgasSirsa involves all permutations of the 
search for rasa, not merely base and simple fun-seeking. After all, a deer is a beautiful 
and graceful creature, not a brute. 


Rasa is the highest objective of Mrgasirsa. The Upanishad tells us that we will not find 
rasa in its fullest form in any fruit or vegetable, nor even in any paradisiacal elixir. We 
find it in “sah” - the All-Attractive Godhead, Sri Krsna, who is rasa personified. 


Siblings in the Stars 

Mahabharata (Vana.221.15) tells us that Soma’s brother is Agni, and his sister is Rohini. 
This is has significant astrological import. The two brothers, Soma and Agni stand on 
both sides of their sister. To one side of Rohini is Soma’s star, Mrgasirsa. To the other 
side is Agni’s star, Krttika. 


Agni is the solar principle, fire. Soma is the lunar principle, water. Life thrives best when 
heat and moisture combine. Rohini, between the heat of Aghi and moisture of Soma, is 
therefore the most abundant and fertile location among the 27 stars.[11] 


The Storm ~ Ardra 


The word Grdrd literally means “wet.” Wet things symbolize Ardra: teardrops, raindrops, 
and especially storms. Rudra, the howling god of destructive storms, is Ardra’s deity. 


What is a Storm? It is frightening, terrible and destructive, but it is nature’s way of 
replenishing the clean oxygen and protective ozone in the atmosphere. 


Ardra is the storm that we must weather so that our nature can once again 
become pure and clean. 


Sankara-acarya, an incarnation of Rudra, was born when the Moon was in Ardra. The 
next great philosopher of India, Ramanuja-acarya, who corrected and built upon the 
foundations laid by Sankara, was also born with the moon in Ardra. 


Clearly, this star is a spiritually fertile domain. 


The Creator and Destroyer Fight 

The Skanda Purana says that Brahma once had an argument with Rudra, during which 
Rudra decapitated one of Brahma’s heads (originally he had five). Rudra threw the head 
into space, and it became the stars of Mrgasirsa, the naksatra which comes after Brahma’s 
Rohini. Searching (mrga) for the head (Sirsa), Rudra came to reside in the naksatra next to 
Mrgasirsa, Ardra. 


If we postulate that the “u’ has simply been dropped from the modern spelling of Ardra, 
the name of this star simply means the place that attracted Rudra. In fact it is not 
uncommon to see the name of this star spelled “Arudra.” 


Anger & Destruction 

The birth of Rudra, god of Ardra, is described in many places with some variation.[12] 
Here is a compilation of the tale: After Brahma had created the major components of the 
universe, he needed to create living beings to populate it. First he generated four 
wonderful beings and said to them, “Populate the universe!”, but they refused. They were 
completely uninterested in working within the material world, because their ambitions 
were purely spiritual. Brahma became extremely angry that his first children would 
disobey him. Yet he also knew that their reason for rejecting his wish was valid. 


So he tried to control his anger, but it built up behind his eyebrows, which formed more 
and more drastically into a profound scowl. The power of his fury caused began to glow 
between his eyes. It became so intense that Brahma could no longer hold it back. Instead 
of expressing it upon his saintly sons, he cast the anger out from his forehead and it 
became a dark purplish child who wailed and howled furiously. 


“Who am I?” it demanded to know. 
“You are Rudra (The Wailer, The Howler)!” declared Brahma. 


The child was half male and half female, so Brahma said, “Be split!” Rudra and his wife 
Rudrani then took separate forms. 


“Again split!” declared Brahma. 
Then, Rudra and Rudrani each split into eleven forms of themselves. 
“Now, go to your rightful places and create offspring!” declared Brahma. 


So they did; Fierce, angry, howling creatures of fire, storm, and destruction they created 
by the thousands. 


Seeing this Brahma cried, “Dear children, please stop! Destruction must be balanced, 
measured and contained. It cannot proliferate without limit. Instead of creating more 
inauspicious beings, go now and meditate upon Godhead. This will calm you and make 
you auspicious.” 


The eleven Rudra and Rudrani consolidated themselves into a single male and female and 
followed Brahma’s order. By so doing Rudra and Rudrani became auspicious, and so 
received the names Siva (“He Who is Auspicious”), and Parvati (“She Who has Risen 


Higher”). 


Rudra was born when Brahma’s creative ambitions were frustrated. Ardrd is 
the frustration of creativity. It represents all the things we must overcome 
before we can create and attain our desired objectives. 


Rudra brings destruction, which can easily become overwhelming, but which 
also serves a purpose. Ardrd empowers humanity to destroy, forget, and let go 
of inauspicious things. 


The Necessity of Destruction 


Rudra’s role in the universe is Ardra’s role in our lives: destruction. We need destruction 
because without it there is no space for creation. 


The creator, Brahma, lives for trillions of years, and each of his “days” lasts for millions 
and millions of human years. The creator cannot rest while his creations are active. Rudra 
and his children have to begin dismantling the creation before Brahma can rest. If Rudra 
did not perform his role of destruction, Brahma could not rest and restore his creative 
energy. 


Ardra allows us to rest. When things need to “rest in peace” they need Ardra. 


Isa Upanishad (11) tells us that this unlearning (destruction) is just as important as 
learning (creation). 


Ardra allows us to unlearn, to destroy ignorance and forget what should be 
forgotten. 


Protector of Divine Rasa 

Residents of the holy city of Vrndavana tell a sacred legend of Siva as “Gopesvara 
Mahadeva.” This tale beautifully illustrates how destruction of the unreal and utter 
forgetfulness and abandonment of one’s illusory ego is required before one can enter into 
the true beauty and pleasure of spiritual abundance. It reflects in the order of the stars. 
Rohini is central, representing the blessed objective of beauty and fertility. It is nourished 
on both sides by the solar force of Agni’s Krttika and the lunar force of Soma’s Mrgasirsa. 
Then it is bracketed on both sides by the difficult walls of Yama’s Bharani and Rudra’s 
Ardra. Here is a tale of how the god of Ardra holds the key to entrance past these walls 
and into the blessed realm. 


In the middle of the full-moon-lit autumn night, Sri Krsna held the magnificent “dance of 
rasa,” manifesting infinite romantic beauty. Siva rushed to the spot to participate, but 
Vrnda, the goddess of Vrndavana, stopped him in his tracks at the outskirts of the forest 
groves. “You are not permitted to enter!” She declared. 


Siva was crushed and dejected. “Why!?” 


“No men enter here besides Krsna,” Vrnda explained. “Because you hold on to the false- 
identity of being a male, your presence cannot be tolerated!” 


From a great distance, Siva could hear and see and smell and feel the excitement of the 
rasa-dance. This drove him mad with desire. 


“T am Rudra!!!” He declared. “I can destroy everything!!! Therefore I will destroy my 
own male ego!” With this ferociously powerful determination he entered meditation upon 
the supreme female, Sri Radha, the central figure of the rdsa-dance, seeking her blessing. 


Hearing his prayers, Sri Radha sent her closest confidant, Lalita, to Siva, who sat in fiery, 
passionate meditation at the edge of the forest. Lalita imparted to Siva all the profound 
conceptions required to develop the inner ego of a purely feminine goddess fit to partake 
in Sn Krsna’s paramount revelry of rdsa. Yet Siva’s male body remained. 


Lalita escorted him to the Yamuna. By her blessing, when Siva again emerged from the 
water he possessed a new physical self to match his new internal self: he had the form of 
a divine goddess of rdsa, a Gopl. 


When Sri Krsna saw this new gopi entering the rasa-dance hand in hand with Lalita a 
surge of happiness and mischief erupted from his transcendental being. Because this gop 
was none other than Siva (who is called MaheSvara, the great controller) Krsna playfully 
nicknamed her Gopesvara. 


Today, pilgrims to Vrndavana seeking to eventually participate in Sri Krsna’s divine Rasa 


dance always pray to Siva as Gopeésvara. Their prayer is that Rudra will destroy the ego 
that makes them unqualified to participate in such divine bliss. 


When the destructive force of Ardrd is given spiritual direction, it dismantles 
the false ego and allows one entry into blessed realms of being. 


Repeating Patterns ~ Punarvasu 


Symbol | An arrow returned to the quiver 
Aditi — the universal mother 
Heads o 
Pollux 


Main Stars f the twins: Castor and 
. ~/. a 


e ° Ses & 


= 
o.. - 
e eee 


xrmyjOd > 


\ Wars 
* & 
o 

$ 

‘Q 


Punar means again. Vasu means bright. So the word Punarvasu can mean, “Becoming 
bright again” (Reignition). Punarvasu is about things happening again; things happening 
within other things, within themselves; in cycles; in repetition. 


A fractal — an image formed by a pattern repeating itself within itself — is an excellent 
symbol for Punarvasu. The classical symbol is an arrow put back into a quiver after it has 
been shot — thus making it ready to be shot again and repeat the pattern. 


Mother of her own Father 


Here is an example of fractal patterns within patterns: The goddess of Punarvasu is Aditi 
— who is the mother of her own father. Aditi is the fabric of space itself, so she is the raw 
material Brahma draws upon for creation. Thus, she is the real “mother” of Brahma’s 
children, including her own father Daksa. She helped create Daksa, and later she took 
shape in the world by being born as his daughter. The son comes from the mother, and then 
the mother comes from the son. 


Thus Rg Veda (10.72.4) says: “Aditi comes from Daksa, but Daksa comes from Aditi.” 


Boundless Unity 


The name Aditi literally means boundless. She is the fabric of space itself, the boundless 
matrix within which everything else exists. Because space is the womb within which all 
live develops, she is the “universal mother.” Especially the “vasu” — the luminous gods — 
are all her children. 


To be boundless means to have no boundaries, to be whole, unbroken and undivided. The 
goddess of non-division is the mother of the gods. Her sister’s name is Diti, which means 
divided. This goddess of division is the mother of the anti-gods. The idea emerges that 
unity is a godly principle, while division is ungodly. Things that unite have godly effects, 
while things that divide have ungodly effects. 


Aditi’s Punarvasu empowers humanity to work cooperatively, become unified; 
to come together and forma larger pattern within larger patterns. 


Aditi is not only the mother of the gods, but she is also the mother of the original Godhead 
when He appears tangibly within this universe as an avatar (“incarnation”). This is 


another example of fractal patterns, Aditi comes from Godhead, but Godhead comes from 
Aditi. 


Mother of God 


The concept of being the mother of a being that has no origin and is the origin of 
everything is another perfect example of fractal patterns-within-patterns. 


Zz 


Srimad Bhagavatam (8.16-18) describes how Aditi became the mother of existence itself, 
Visnu: A powerful demon named Bali conquered all the worlds and the gods lost all 
power. Aditi requested her husband Kasyapa to give her a son who could save them. 
KaSsyapa told her how to perform a ritual for this purpose. But since Aditi knew that only 
Godhead could save the gods from this situation, her performance of this ritual attracted 
God to become her child. 


When the ritual was complete, Godhead appeared and assured her, “I will become your 
son, but this situation cannot be remedied by force. I will come up with a different 
strategy.” 


Aditi then conceived a child with KaSyapa, who was born mysteriously as the Godhead 
Visnu — blackish with glittering yellow clothes, four armed and gloriously beautiful. 
Before their very eyes, He transformed into a very small boy; a student-mendicant, named 
Vamana. 


Visnu thus became the younger brother of Aditi’s first child, Indra. The young boy soon set 
off to where Bali was performing an elaborate ritual to celebrate his victory over the 
gods. When he entered the arena, everyone was struck with his beauty and effulgence and 
greeted him with warm respects. Bali, especially, was charmed by the endearing beauty of 
Vamana. 


“Tt is my great fortune that such a wondrous spiritualist has come to my palace! The 
opportunity to serve you will free me from all the sins of my selfish life. You must have 
come here to ask something from me, please ask it! I will happily give you any wealth or 
pleasure you desire!” 


Vamana was very pleased with Bali’s humble and spiritually informed attitude. He said to 
Bali, “You are wonderful because you have good teachers and because your grandfather is 
the great Prahlad. You are as great and dear to me as your grandfather! But I do not need 
any wealth or pleasures. It is not good for a spiritualist to accept such things. I just want 
whatever land I can claim for myself in three paces.” 


Bali replied, “You are wise beyond your years, but still inexperienced. You should take 
what you can get when it is offered! I own even the heavens. I can give you anything. 
Someone who asks a favor from me should never have to ask another person for a favor 
again! So why should you only take three paces of land? It would defame me to give such 


a petty gift!” 


Vamana replied, “If a person can’t be satisfied with three steps of land, he won’t be 
satisfied with the three worlds. Self-control makes one happy. Feeding uncontrolled 
desire causes misery.” 


Smiling, Bali said, “Alright, then. You are very wise. I shall happily give you what you 
request.” With that he took up his waterpot to wash his palm in a gesture of solemn 
promise, but no water would flow from it. When Bali used a straw to unblock the nozzle, 
Sukra (the deity of Venus and Bali’s guru) suddenly appeared, holding his eye in pain. He 
had taken a tiny form and purposely clogged the pot, and the straw had poked out his eye. 


Sukra said, “This little boy is Visnu! He has been born to Aditi to protect her children, the 
gods. You’ve gone and promised to give him land!? He will take everything from you and 
give it to your enemy, Indra! You fool! You will be homeless!!! He will take the entire 
universe in just two steps and make you unable to fulfill your promise, and thus send you 
to hell! Charity is good, up to a point! Besides, you did not say “Om” when making this 
promise to give him land, so it is not binding!” 


Bali thought about this deeply for a few moments. Then he said, “Mother Earth said, ‘I can 
bear any burden, but I cannot bear a liar.’ Truthfulness is the soul of morality, without 
which there can be no good fortune. I don’t mind losing my riches, so long as I do not lose 
my morality.” 


Sukra was infuriated. “You think you know morality better than I do!? So be it, then! 
Become penniless!!!” Sukra then disappeared. 


Bali did not mind this in the least. He very happily worshipped the young spiritualist with 
all respect and offered him to take the land he desired. 


Vamana then began to grow to huge proportions, revealing that he was all-pervading 
Visnu. Bali could see the entire universe within his “body.” Here is another instance of 
fractal patterns-within-patterns: Vamana was standing within the universe, yet the entire 
universe existed within Vamana. 


With one step the huge Visnu covered all of normal earthly space. With the second he 
reached the highest extent of the heavens. 


The anti-gods rushed forward to kill Visnu, but Visnu’s associates appeared and drove 
them back effortlessly into subterranean regions. Visnu’s eagle, Garuda, then arrested Bali 
and tied him in ropes. Vamana said to Bali, “You promised me three steps of land, but I 
have taken everything you possess and more, in just two steps. Since you cannot fulfill 
your boastful promise, you must enter the hells.” 


Bali replied, “That is no problem. Your punishment is always just. We anti-gods always 
want power and prestige. When you punish us it is kind because it opens our eyes to a 


more blissful reality that we are not all-powerful, we are but fragments of your energy and 
should endeavor only to serve your desires! Everything you have taken from me is a 
blessing. What is the use of material prosperity? It only puts one into deeper spiritual 
ignorance! But I do not wish to be untruthful. I have offered you three steps of property. I 
owned the three worlds, which you took in just two steps. Surely the owner of land is 
even more valuable than the land itself, so I must be worth at least two steps. Please place 
your third step on my head and claim me as your servant. This will fulfill my promise.” 


Thrilled by the unwavering devotion of this great soul amidst demons, Visnu declared, 
“Because your devotion for me is so pure that you were willing to happily surrender 
everything, I will give you something greater than even the gods possess! In the future you 
will become the king of the Gods. Until then you can live on a special planet called 
Sutala, free from the influence of time and decay. No one will be able to conquer you. I 
will protect you always and will personally stay there with you as your gatekeeper.” 


Budha Curses Aditi 

Mahabharata (Santi.34.96-98): Budha (the god of Mercury) came to Aditi’s home hungry. 
She was at the end of feeding her children, so she asked him to wait a moment. Budha 
became upset over this transgression of etiquette and cursed her, “You so love your 
children!? Then become Vivasvan’s mother a second time!” Vivasvan was reborn to Aditi 
as Anda and his fiery heat caused her great pain during pregnancy. 


This serves as another illustration of repetition, the main theme of Punarvasu. 


Rebirths of Aditi 

Aditi herself has many rebirths, just as a fractal appears many times within itself. All of 
them center on being the mother facilitating the birth of Godhead. Mahabharata 
(Santi.43.6) says that Visnu is born seven times to Aditi. This repetition is interesting to 
the study of Punarvasu. 


Srimad Bhagavatam (10.3) says that Aditi was once Prsni, the wife of a different son of 
Brahma, named Sutapas. She performed great austerities in devotion to Visnu for 12,000 
years. When Visnu appeared to grant her wishes, she wished that he would become her 
son, which he did. 


Krsna told this story to his mother, to let her know that she and he are always mother and 
son, repeatedly. Thus Krsna’s mother, Devaki is yet another incarnation of Aditi. 


The story behind Aditi becoming Devakt is also fascinating. It is told in Devi Bhagavata 
(4): Aditi was the first wife of KaSyapa, and she gave birth to the gods, headed by Indra. 
Her sister, Diti, the second wife, was jealous and asked Kasyapa for children who would 
be equals to the gods. Thus eventually she gave birth to the anti-gods (“demons”). But 
Aditi became fearful and sent her child to destroy the first child in her sister’s womb. Diti 
then cursed Aditi: “Your child will repeatedly lose his kingdom to my children! And you 
will lose your children!” 


The first part of the curse is constantly being fulfilled as Diti’s children, the anti-gods, 
attempt to conquer the gods, and often succeed. The second part of the curse was fulfilled 
when Aditi became Devaki, who had to suffer the loss of many children at the hands of 
her atrocious brother Karhsa. 


The Highest Blossom ~ Pusya 


Meaning 


ain 
Brhaspati - god of prayer 


Main Stars | y, 6 (Asellus Australis) and 8 
Cancri. 


The word pusya has two primary meanings: 


1. The top/best part of a thing; usually referring to a flower, the top and best part of a 
plant. 


2. Nourishment; which allows us to blossom and grow. 


There is a motherly, loving and devotional overtone to the word pusya. Love, after all, is 
the topmost blossom on the flower of life. 


Pusya’s primary symbol is a lotus, the most beautiful and wholesome flower. The udders 
of a cow are sometimes used to symbolize Pusya; conveying the theme of nourishment. 


Brhaspati, the god of prayer and devotions, is the deity of Pusya. In Bhagavad Gita 
(10.24), Sri Krsna says: purodhasam ca mukhyam mam viddhi partha brhaspatim 


“Among the best priests, know me to be Brhaspati.” 


Among all priests, Brhaspati is the best. A priest is a person who facilitates our 
connection to the divine. Prayer is an interactive union with the divine. Brhaspati is the 
god who masterfully conducts religious rituals and prayers — the technologies of divine 
communion. 


Pusya is always thought of as being among the most fortunate and prosperous of Vedic 
stars. Other names for Pusya are Sidhya (“perfect”) and Tisya (“auspicious”). Why? 
What is the connection between devotional prayer and prosperity? 


In Gita (10.38) Sri Krsna says: nitir asmi jigisatam “For those whose desire victory, I am 
morality.” 


Pusya is a successful and prosperous star because it facilitated communion with the 
divine, which engenders morality, which leads to true victory and prosperity. 


What is morality? It is what distinguishes “right” from “wrong.” Right and wrong, though, 
are not absolute. What is right in one circumstance is wrong in another. It might be wrong 
to use a knife to kill someone, yet right to use the same knife for slicing bread. It might be 
wrong to kill someone, but right to kill someone who is on the brink of killing many other 
people. Morality is relative. And that’s why it’s complicated. 


We can’t really be morally strong without understanding moral relativity: knowing how to 
apply a moral principle in many different circumstances. This requires serious 
contemplation, reflection, and depth. Brhaspati facilitates all these things: contemplation, 
meditation, prayer; and by doing so he strengthens real morality, and thus causes us to be 
more victorious and prosperous. 


Through Pusya, Brhaspati empowers human beings to commune with deeper 
principles. This strengthens morality and causes prosperity and victory. It 
eventually leads to selfless devotional intimacy with the divine. 


The Son of the Sage of Fire 


Rg Veda (4.40.1) and Mahabharata (Adi.66) clearly state that Brhaspati is the son of 
Angiras. Angiras is Brahma’s son, was born from the coals of a fire. He is therefore a 
fire-sage. His son, Brhaspati is sometimes called “the son of fire,” but this doesn’t mean 
Brhaspati is the son of Agfii, the fire god. 


From his father Brhaspati inherits affinity and skill with fire. Fire is symbolic of religion 
and morality because the light of fire shows us the correct path, and the warmth of fire 
nourishes us. Fire is the focal point of most religious rituals, especially Vedic, because it 


transforms things. It transforms matter to energy, thus allowing sacrifices to be delivered 
to the gods. 


Brhaspati’s mother is named Sraddha, which means trust, faith, and confidence. The god 
of communion with the divine is born from trust, faith, and confidence. 


Pusya encourages faith and devotion. 


Priest and Guru of the Gods 


Brhaspati was very religiously inclined from birth and therefore went to a sacred place to 
commune with the divine. Siva was very impressed with the boy and granted him the 
position of the priest and guru of all the gods, and gave him custodianship of the 
astrological planet Jupiter. 


Much of what an astrologer knows as the traits of Jupiter can therefore be 
transposed into Pusya. You can think of Pusya as if it was Jupiter as a star: It 
is very positive, helpful, nurturing, and allows things to grow, develop, 
prosper and blossom in a moral and wholesome manner. 


Milking the Earth 


Srimad Bhagavatam (4.17-18) tells a story which ties into using the udders of a cow as 
Pusya’s symbol: Once upon a time, the Earth became very weak and there was extreme 
famine. Godhead empowered a king named Prthu to remedy the situation. The king took up 
a bow and threatened the Earth, “you must produce!” 


The Earth-goddess in her form as a cow fled as fast as she could, but she could not escape 
the king. Submitting to him, she explained why she had been causing famine, “No one 
takes care of me anymore. They just take as much as they can from me, and do not even 
use my bounty to worship Godhead! Therefore I have made my surface rocky and hilly, so 
that the water cannot enrich the soil and nothing will grow. But I submit to you now to 
change this situation! Bring me a calf. The milk I then give will restore everything I have 
withheld.” 


First the king made the chief of humanity (Svayambhuva Manu) into a “calf” and obtained 
as “milk” all the grains and vegetables needed to feed the citizens. Then various groups 
used various people as “calves,” and through those calves they got all they desired from 
the Earth. The first group to do so was the sages. They selected Brhaspati to become the 
calf, and through him obtained “milk” from the Earth in the form of mantras and hymns that 
would make the mind clean and pure. 


Punishing the King of the Gods 

Srimad Bhagavatam (6.7) tells how Brhaspati punished Indra, the king of the gods: Once, 
Indra was enjoying very opulently and luxuriantly in his regal assembly hall, surrounded 
by beautiful and influential admirers and his extremely beautiful queen. Brhaspati entered 
and Indra neglected to stop his revelry to welcome his priest and guru. 


Seeing Indra reeking of the typical egoistic pollution that accompanies material 
enjoyment, Brhaspati simply turned around and left. 


When the doors closed behind his departing guru, Indra suddenly realized his error and 
went in search of him to apologize. But Brhaspati wanted to teach Indra an important 
lesson, so he became invisible. 


The anti-gods heard news that the gods were without their guide and priest, and so they 
attacked the heavens. They severely wounded the gods and brought them to the brink of 
total defeat. 


This illustrates that without Pusya we cannot be successful. Being “without 
Pusya” means losing our unity with the divine. Ego destroys this union. Thus, 
when fouled by the ego of power and luxury we, like Indra, lose access to 
divine communion, and all the blossoms of our prosperity wither. 


This story of Indra and Brhaspati will continue through many of the rest of the stars. 


Serpentine Embrace ~ Aslesa 


Symbol 


Main Stars | The head of the hydra: 6, ¢, n, p, o 
Hydrae 


oT f base 


The word dslesd means, “intimate connection, intimate contact, embracing, entwining, 
adhering, and clinging.” A coiled serpent is a fitting symbol for Aslesa, because serpents 
coil around things: embracing and entwining with them. 


ASlesa’s deity is the “Naga” — supernatural serpents, a.k.a. “dragons.” Like all serpents 
they have scales, forked tongues and powerful poisons. Unlike most serpents Naga can 
combust their spit poisons, usually have many heads, have super-human intellect and 
talent, and can shape-shift in and out of humanoid and intermediate forms. They are 
protectors of vast treasures. 


Sometimes, ordinary snakes (particularly the King Cobra) can be called “naga” as an 
honorific. All snakes are connected to Aslesa, but the deities of Aslesa are the 
supernatural dragons, not ordinary serpents. 


Rivalry and Jealousy 
I’ll tell you a story about the origin of the Naga. 


One of the sons of Brahma is Marici. His son is Kasyapa, the “genetic engineer of the 
universe.” KaSyapa married 13 sisters. With each wife he produced different species of 
offspring, from gods to insects. 


According to Mahabharata (Adi.16), one wife, Kadru, wanted to have many, many 
children; while another wife, Vinata, desired only two very powerful children. Kadru laid 
1000 eggs which quickly hatched into so many different varieties of serpents, the foremost 
of whom were the Naga. Vinata laid two eggs which took a very long time to hatch. One 
of the children became Aruna, who drives the chariot of the Sun and shields the world 
from the fury of his heat. The other was the gigantic King of Eagles, Garuda, who became 
the associate and carrier of Visnu. 


Kadru was jealous of the power her husband allotted to her sister’s two children, and 
devised a plan to ruin her. She made a bet: “I bet you that the color of the tail of the divine 
horse that emerged from the ocean of milk is not white! If I am right, you and your children 
are my slaves. If you are right, my children and I are your slaves.” Kadru, however, 
rigged the bet, by asking her black serpent children to mix into the hair of the horse’s tail. 
The serpents that refused their mother’s request on moral grounds became a separate, 
special branch of the Naga race. The rest of the serpents mixed into the hair, making it 
appear black. Vinata thus lost the bet and became a servant of Kadru. 


It was then that Garuda hatched from his egg, born into slavery. He submitted but 
developed hatred of the serpents as a result. Eventually, he asked the Naga, “How can I be 
released of this debt to you?” 


“Bring us soma, the nectar of immortality!” They replied. 


Garuda “stole” soma from the Gods, but conspired with their king, Indra, so that Indra 
reclaimed the soma before the serpents had a chance to drink it. Garuda was freed from 
servitude the moment he placed the nectar before the Naga. As Indra appeared from out of 
nowhere to snatch back the elixir, drops of it splashed onto the kusa grass, which is sharp 
like a razor blade. The Naga became very powerful by licking up these drops, but also 
split their tongues on the sharp grass in the process. 


Aslesa has an inherent weakness towards deception and jealousy, owing to the 
fact that its deity was born into such an environment. 


Pleasures beyond Paradise 

The Naga inhabit and control a unique realm of the universe: “Naga-Realm,” the deepest 
of the seven netherworlds. Because they dwell at the very bottom of the physical 
dimensions, we hear in Mahabharata (Adi.36) that they “hold the earthly realm aloft upon 
their hoods.” Thus the Naga are very strong and can hold things better than any other 
creatures. The very word dslesd implies this! One can think of the boa constrictor or 
python as a concrete example of a serpent’s power to embrace and hold. 


Aslesd empowers humanity to embrace strong attachments and affections with 
enduring emotion and desire. Thus Aslesda also promotes the ability to bear 
great weights and responsibilities towards those we love. 


The Naga’s netherworld is not similar to Judeo-Christian hell. It is a place of grandeur 
and pleasure, not a place of punishment. Chapter 5 of Visnu Purana describes it: It is more 
beautiful than heaven, full of radiant jewels, exotic groves and lakes, and breathtaking 
serpentine maidens eager to enjoy! The air carries sweet scents and music. The ground is 
multicolored, soft and mixed with jewels and gold. 


The 24'" Chapter of the 5‘" section of Bhagavata Purana concurs, adding that this world is 
like a luxurious resort, free from infections, fatigue, and aging. The Sun and other 
luminaries cannot shine into these nether regions. The entire world is lit instead by the 
brilliance held within fantastic gems that the residents wear, often as crown-jewels on 
their serpentine hoods. 


The Visnu Purana states that the Naga are extremely influential throughout all seven of the 
nether realms. Vayu Purana lists the specific Naga who predominate each nether realm: 
Kaliya, Taksaka, Hemaka, Vainateya, Kirmira, and Vasuki. The Bhagavatam clarifies that 
the fifth and seventh nether-realms particularly belong to the Naga. The seventh realm is 
the home to the most powerful and impressive of the Naga, headed by their king, Vasuki. 


Through Aslesa, the Naga empower human beings to obtain luxury, and 
embrace sensual pleasure and enjoyment via charisma, charm, mystique, and 
cunning. 


Vasuki — King of Dragons 
In Bhagavad-Gita (10.28), Sri Krsna says: sarpanam asmi vasukih 


“Among serpents I am Vasuki.” 


The most celebrated tale involving Vasuki involves how the gods and anti-gods produced 
the original nectar of immortality by churning the cosmic ocean of milk. 


Churning a bucket of milk will make a person tired, and churning an entire ocean was a 
feat even for the gods to accomplish. They needed enormous apparatus like continents to 
stand on and mountains to churn with. The rope to turn this mountainous churning rod 
would have to be fantastically strong and long. Everyone agreed that the king of serpents, 
Vasuki would be the only being that could act as the rope. 


Vasuki, however, was far off in the deepest netherworld. Garuda, proud of his ability to 
carry away snakes in his beak, stepped forward and announced that he would bring 
Vasuki. When he arrived and explained the situation, Vasuki replied, “If it’s so urgent, 
carry me to the spot at once.” 


Garuda, however, could not lift Vasuki off the ground. Thus he returned to the gods empty 
handed. Siva then extended his hand to the netherworld and Vasuki wrapped himself 
around Siva’s wrist like a bracelet. 


Thereafter, Vasuki firmly embraced the mountain in the middle of the ocean and the gods 
and anti-gods could successfully churn the cosmic milk. 


Vasuki cooperated happily with Siva but embarrassed haughty Garuda. It is 
said that snakes are enemies of common people, but they never harm a 
saint[13]. Similarly Aslesa interests us in using our charms and charismas to 
enjoy life, but it also makes us favorable to the truly godly. 


Sesa — The Spiritual Serpent 
In Bhagavad Gita (10.29) Sri Krsna says: ananta§ cdsmi naganam 


“Among the Naga I am Ananta.” 


In the previous verse of Gita, Krsna said that among serpents he is Vasuki, now he says 
that among Naga he is Sesa. This indicates that Sesa is the truest Naga, distinguished most 
fully from his serpentine kin. In comparison to Sesa even the great dragon Vasuki seems 
like a snake. 


Still, Vasuki became the king of the Naga because Sesa had no interest in taking the 
position. Displeased by the sensual orientation of his kin, Sesa prefers to be solitary and 
remain apart from them. Instead Sesa takes up an intimate relationship with Visnu. 


When Visnu lies upon the cosmic ocean of causality, Sesa appears and folds his coils into 
a soft bed for Visnu, while spreading his thousands of hoods above him like an umbrella. 


Visnu has Garuda the eagle as his carrier, and Sesa the serpent as his bed. The two, eagles 
and serpents, should be sworn enemies. But the influence of Visnu is so pacifying and 
pleasant that even deadly enemies give up their mutual hatred and cooperate happily to 
serve him. 


Sesa has so many heads they are essentially infinite. This is one reason why he also bears 
the name Ananta, which means endless. 


Srimad Bhagavatam (10.1.14) explains that Sesa is an incarnation of Visnu, who returns to 
his original form as Krsna’s elder brother, Balarama. Sesa’s role is always to support and 
guard Visnu. When Visnu appears as Krsna, Sesa supports and protects him by becoming 
his older brother. Since Sesa is the foremost Naga, Aslesa attains its favorability towards 
the spiritual, in spite of and augmented by its otherwise netherworldly, pleasure loving 
nature. 


The divine qualities of Sesa are more fully and purely realized in Sesa’s own star: Uttara 
Bhadrapada. But still, it is not difficult to see the intimate connection between Sesa and 
ASlesa. If we merely drop the “1” as an irregularity of pronunciation, the word Aslesa 
becomes d-Sesa - “the place of Sesa.” 


Aslesd interests humanity in mystical spirituality. 


Kaliya’s Battle with Krsna 

Srimad Bhagavatam (10.16) tells the story of a powerful Naga named Kaliya. Fearing 
Garuda, Kaliya made his home somewhere Garuda had been cursed to be unable to enter. 
That place happened to be in Krsna’s forest: Vrndavana, within the depths of a pool 
formed by the river Yamuna. 


Kaliya demonstrated the power of holding (“aslesa”) by causing the water to take solid 
shapes. He constructed a palace for himself out of water, in the water, and lived there 
with many beautiful Naga maidens. However, his toxicity made the lake and surrounding 
area polluted. So Krsna jumped into the water one day to challenge Kaliya and evict him. 


Kaliya held Krsna in an unbreakably strong embrace within his coils for a terribly long 
time. But Krsna broke free and began to dance upon Kaliya’s hundreds of hoods, each 
attempting to bite and spit fiery poison upon him. With each artful step of the dance Krsna 
kicked upon each hood — his feet illuminated by the jewels there like an artist illuminated 
on stage by footlights. One by one the heads of Kaliya were broken and defeated by 
Krsna. However, the Naga maidens beseeched Krsna sweetly, and he spared Kaliya and 
allowed him to return to Nagaloka with a promise that he need no longer fear Krsna’s 
servant, Garuda. 


By Krsna’s compassion, Kaliya became an enlightened serpent similar to Sesa. Here are 
excerpts of his statements to Krsna after becoming enlightened (Srimad Bhagavatam 
10.16.56-59): “I am sorry for fighting with you, but Iam a serpent, so it is my nature to 
become aggressive when challenged. It is so difficult for a person not to be a creature of 
habit. Please forgive me. 


“You create the forces that create our habitual nature; that is why no one can overcome 
habit by their willpower alone. You are the wise being who frees everyone from bondage 
to their habitual conditioning. So, whether you punish me or show me mercy — either is for 
my benefit.” 


Inherited Power ~ Magha 


are 


tm : et fi 


The word magha means “power” and also means “gift.” The symbol of Magha, a throne, 
is an image of inherited power. Indra, the king of the gods, seated on the throne of 
paradise is known as Maghavan. But it is the Pitr (ancestral spirits) who are the deities of 
Magha — signifying that we inherit power from our ancestors. 


Magha bestows gifts “from our ancestors.” This literally indicates 
inheritance of power, career, fortune, and qualities (“DNA”). Such 
inheritance really comes as a result of efforts made in our previous births, so 
Magha also indicates powers, qualities and abilities carried over from past 
lives. 


Divine “Ancestors” 

The Manu-Smrti’s third chapter tells us that Pitr are divine beings who are the 
“forefathers” of us all. It says that some of Brahma’s initial mental offspring created the 
Pitr, who in turn created powerful beings, who in turn produced the original members of 
the various species in the universe. 


So the Pitr are an intermediary being between the original mental offspring of Brahma and 
the subsequent physical offspring that created the gods, humans, animals, etc. 


The Puranas, especially Vayu and Brahmanda, describe many types of Pitr: 1) Original 
Pitr — divine ancestors; a) Forefathers of non-humans i) ...of the divine race called 
Sadhya ii) ...of the gods iii) ...of the anti-gods and similar supernatural beings b) 
Forefathers of humans i) ...of intellectuals ii) ...of rulers iii) ...of producers iv) ...of 
workers[14] 


2) Souls of deceased human ancestors who become Pitr. 


The main concern of the Pitr, regardless of their type, is to bring peace and prosperity to 
the souls of their descendants when we die and have to transition between one lifetime 
and the next. They perform sacrifices, prayers and meditations to pacify the chaos and 
confusion which tends to befall newly deceased souls. 


The foremost of all the Pitr is Aryama. In Bhagavad Gita (10.29) Sri Krsna says: pitrnam 
aryama casmi 


“Among the Pitr, I am Aryama.” 


We will discuss Aryama in more detail, because he has his own star very close by, Uttara 
Phalgunt. 


The Afterlife 


Garuda Purana’s 14" chapter relates: The god of death, Yama is the master of the Pitr’s 
world, pitr-loka — the afterlife realm, which is “below” the earthly realm but “above” the 
nether-paradise of the Naga. 


The Pitr guide the soul through the afterlife, which contains experiences akin to our 
modern western concepts of heaven and hell. The Pitr help deceased souls face Yama, the 
god of death, who judges their deeds and rewards and punishes them accordingly. 


To help correct specific wrongs, Yama sends the soul into any of the 28 “hells” of 
pitrloka. To encourage and reward good deeds, Yama sends the soul into the “heaven” of 
pitrloka where they enjoy heavenly delights with bodies similar to the gods. 


When the due rewards and punishments are exhausted, Yama usually sends a soul to its 
next earthly birth. Occasionally, Yama will keep a soul for an extended period, promoting 
it into the ranks of the Pitr, or another type of divinity in some other realm. 


Ancestor Worship 


In ancient India, the Pitr were worshipped with approximately equal importance as the 
gods, but the rituals were different. Rituals for worshipping the Pitr are called sraddha 
and always involve grains. [15] Indeed the word magha can even connote “grain.” 


The sraddha ritual highlights the mutual indebtedness between ancestor and offspring. In 
Vedic culture, it is the duty of every child to have at least one child of his own. This is 
how we repay our debt to the ancestors who paved the way for our birth, and it helps 
insure success of the Pitr’s original duty: to populate the universe. 


The divine “ancestors” help guide us through the afterlife when we die, and when our 
literal ancestors die it is our duty to make an effort to help them. Therefore a child 
performs sraddha on behalf of his deceased parents. The ceremony worships not the 
deceased but the Pitr who will make the effort to ease the passing of the deceased. 


Romantic Enjoyment ~ 
Purva Phalguni 
2 Sr ma 


“ZB Fa 
Symbol 


Parva Phalguni is one of two consecutive naksatra named Phalguni, and is thus our first 
encounter with a naksatra pair. As is usually the case with naksatra pairs, the first in the 
pair is prefixed as Purva Phalguni (“the first Phalguni”), and the second is Uttara 
Phalguni (“the later/ second Phalguni’’). Paired naksatra share similar meanings with 


subtle differences. 


The word phalguni means “reddish lady,” which should remind us of the naksatra named 
Rohini, since that word has the same meaning. As we noted while discussing Rohini, the 
Vedic implication of “reddish lady” is a pubescent girl, fertile and eager to enjoy 
sexuality and procreation. It is therefore quite fitting that the symbol for both Phalgunt 
naksatras is a bed, and that their deities are gods of romance and marriage! 


Purva Phalguni is the domain of Bhaga - the god of love and marriage. The word bhaga 


means: A patron; a gracious, generous lord Good fortune, prosperity, happiness Beauty 
and loveliness Love, lust, Eros Vulva Through Pirva Phalguni, Bhaga graciously 
dispenses happiness to humanity, via love and marriage. With its symbolic bed and its 
name depicting a fertile young lady, Purva Phalguni is the star of happy lovers, romance, 
and marriage. 


A Family of Expert Enjoyers 
The names of Bhaga’s wife, sons and daughters reveal the ways Bhaga bestows romantic 
happiness to us. 


Bhaga’s three sons are: 


Mahiman — greatness, majesty and hugeness Vibhu — solid, penetrating and 
effective Prabhu - powerful, capable and enduring These names reveal the 
traits a male must possess to fully enjoy romantic happiness: Size (Mahiman) is 
literal in terms of stature and sexual organ but also indicates size of character: 
nobility and morality. Solidity (Vibhu) also has obvious physical and sexual 
meaning, as well as indicating ideal male character. Power (Prabhu) grants 
initiative and mastery which is important physically, sexually and socially. 


Bhaga’s three daughters are: 


Suvrata — dedication, virtue and compliance Vararoha — beauty, mounting, and 
attractive hips Asis — desire and fulfillment These names reveal the essential 
traits a female must bring to the romantic partnership. She must be dedicated 
(Suvrata), indicating virtue, patience and receptivity. She must be beautiful 
(Vararoha), indicating attractive hips and expertise in “mounting” and “riding”. 
Finally, she must be desirable (Asis), which indicates that she has an appetite 
for romance and that she is therefore capable of fulfilling romantic desires. 


The name of Bhaga’s wife indicates what both genders must possess if they are to truly 
enjoy happiness together: Siddhi —perfection, unusual skill, and dexterity This word, 
siddhi, has strong spiritual implications, indicating that romantic pleasure is not an end in 
and of itself, but a part of what we need in our greater journey towards a more significant 
and spiritual understanding of love and pleasure. 


Purva Phalguni allows one to develop dexterity and skill in these talents, 
arts, and character traits so as to enjoy a fulfilling and satisfying sensual and 
romantic life. 


Negative Effects of Lust 

The Mahabharata (Sauptika Parva) tells the following story of Bhaga angering Rudra: At 
the end of a divine age, the gods came together to divide up the surplus shares of 
sacrifices they had received. The eagerness to enjoy made them feel that they could leave 
Rudra out of the divvy. 


When Rudra learned of this, he became furious and attacked. Those who were most lusty 
to enjoy the sacrificial portions were his main target. He cut off the hands of the god 
named Savita, who was lusty to feel and grab all the resources for sense gratification. He 
took out the teeth of the god named Pisa, who was lusty to enjoy fine delicacies. He 
plucked out the eyes of Bhaga, who was lusty to look upon attractive forms. 


The apologies of the gods finally placated Rudra and he was eventually pleased to return 
the body parts to their owners. 


The story illustrates that the desire to enjoy what Purva Phalguni offers can 
easily bewilder us into greed and lust, the result of which is the opposite of 
happiness and bliss. Thus we must be on guard to maintain the primary male 
and female qualities of nobility (mahiman) and restraint (suvratd). 


Divine Love and Romance 


In modern times, with the rise of extremely dualistic concepts of religion, we tend to 
conceive of a huge gulf between mater and spirit, god and pleasure, etc. This divisive 
conception was not embraced by Vedic culture. Certainly dualism has some relevance, for 
not all things are identical. Selfishness and selflessness, for example, are polar opposites 
— and thus so are lust and love. However, the Indian concept of divinity neutralizes, 
harmonizes, and integrates all opposites. 


Bhaga is the god of “material” things such as romance, sex and marriage. Yet the word 
bhaga in the form “Bhagav a n” is the most common classical Sanskrit term for a blessed 
being. The Puranas even define Bhagavan as a moniker of the Supreme Personality of 
Godhead. Thus, in Sanskrit culture, the division between material and spiritual 
transforms. 


Bhagavan means, “The possessor of Bhaga.” Sanskrit culture conceives of the Supreme 
Spirit as a being that has more Bhaga than anyone else: a blissful, attractive, talented and 
romantic entity. 


Parasara Muni defines the word Bhagavan in Visnu Purana (6.5.79): “To fully possess 
happiness (bhaga) one must have all majesty, power, fame, beauty, knowledge and 
detachment.” 


Bhaga gives majesty — which means status, influence and wealth. He gives power — which 
means heroism, bravery and strength. Bhaga also gives fame — which means celebrity and 
good reputation. He also gives beauty — which attracts others to participate in ones 
pleasures. 


Money, power, fame, beauty... these first four are obvious and well known ingredients of 
a person who can enjoy great pleasures. Knowledge is a lesser known requirement. We 
need expertise and skill to really enjoy the pleasures of life. Bhaga, the god of pleasures, 
also gives detachment — because attachment causes suffering. If we are only attached to 
enjoying pleasures, we will inevitably suffer. To be detached requires knowledge of what 
one really is — a spiritual being, not just a collection of senses to please. So in addition to 
giving money, power, fame, and beauty, Bhaga also gives knowledge and detachment. The 
complete package of six traits grants supreme pleasure. 


The personality of Godhead, especially in the intimate form of Sri Krsna, is recognized by 
ParaSara and his son Vyasa as the person most fit to be named Bhagavan.[16] 


Purva Phalguni has the special ability to grant pleasures and wealth in a manner 
that befits a spiritually progressive person. It also can incline one to more deeply 
appreciate the spiritual pleasures and opulence of Bhagavan Sri Krsna. 


Bhaga and Bhakti 


Again, to highlight how Indian theology does not stringently divide pleasure and 
happiness from spirituality: the Sanskrit word for romantic love and pleasure (bhaga) is 
made of the same root that makes the word for the yoga of divine love (bhakti). 


Bhakti means loving the All-Attractive Divinity in very tangible, intimate manner which 
includes and really culminates its brilliance in romantic forms of love. 


Purva Phalguni thus has a special fertility for producing bhaktas. For 
example, Arjuna, the most famous dear friend of Krsna, was born on a lunar 
day when the Moon spanned both phalguni stars.[17]| 


The primary Indian calendar ties the lunar phases and the 27 stars to earthly days via the sunrise. The phase 
and star of the moon at the time of sunrise becomes the phase of that day, even if the actual phase itself 
changes before the next sunrise. Sometimes odd things happen: If the Sun rises when the moon is at the 
very end of Star A, the moon’s normal motion can carry it through Star B and just into the very beginning of 
Star C by the time the next Sunrise happens. In this case Star B gets “skipped” that month. Or, if the Sun 
rises when the Moon is at the very beginning of Star A, it can still be just at the very end of Star A when the 
next sunrise occurs. In this case Star A gets “stretched” to cover two consecutive days in that month. 


It is uncommon to be born on such days, but much more uncommon to be born when those days involve the 
few paired stars. Arjuna says he was born on a winter day when the Moon did exactly that; passed through 
two paired star-clusters — Ptrva and Uttara Phalguni— ina single day. This earned him the name Phalguna. 


The Phalgunis are stars of entertainment and friendship. Arjuna was a dashing hero, and a skilled dancer 
and musician. As for friendship, Arjuna is well known as a dear, dear friend of All-Attractive Sri Krishna. 


Vows of Friendship ~ 
Uttara Phalguni 


Uttara Phalguni 
Meaning | Reddish Lady (II) 
ain 


Deity | Aryama - god of vows and 
weddings 


Uttara Phalguni is the second in the Phalgunt pair of stars. Most of what we discussed 
about Piirva Phalguni applies to Uttara Phalguni as well. The difference is that while the 
previous Phalguni tends towards romance, Uttara Phalguni towards friendship and 
marriage. 


Uttara Phalguni is the star of marriage and commitments. 


The deity of Uttara Phalguni is Aryama, the brother of Pirva Phalguni’s deity, Bhaga. As 
you may recall from the chapter on Magha, In Bhagavad Gita (10.29), Sri Krsna suggests 
that Aryama is the foremost Pitr: pitrnam aryamd casmi, “Among the Pitrs I am Aryama.” 


This reveals that Aryama dwells with and functions like the Pitr, well-wishing ancestors 
who protect us in difficult times. Aryama is the foremost well-wisher and protector. 


The word aryama literally means a dear friend. The exact, most specific meaning is, a 
friend who asks a girl to marry his friend. If a boy has a crush on a girl, his close friend 
goes to the girl and tells her about the boy in such a way as to attract her attention and 
affections. That friend is “aryama”. 


It is somewhat fitting that such a friend would never be mentioned in the Vedas as a 
solitary being, but is always addressed in relationship to his dear brothers: Bhaga, Mitra 
and Varuna. 


Aryama is the divine matchmaker. He pairs young men and women so that they can enjoy 
what Phalguni has to offer: love, romance and marriage. 


Uttara Phalguni produces matchmakers and expert councilors in the arts of 
love and romance. 


Wedding Vows 

Rg Veda (2.27.5) says that Aryama brings enjoyment even in the face of difficulties. This 
is very important for marriage, because the relationship between opposite principles, 
male and female, is rarely without challenges. Aryama is the love and affection which 
transforms such challenges into delightful romantic exchanges. 


The next mantra says that the paths of Aryama and Mitra are smooth.[18] The next mantra 
says that Aryama’s path is beautiful and loving, beyond hatred. Then, the next confirms 
that Aryama’s path is particularly beautiful. 


Uttara Phalguni especially makes relationships beautiful, smooth and 
enjoyable; easing disagreements and promoting accord, harmony and felicity. 


The traditional Vedic wedding begins with an invocation to Aryama, and is followed by 
one to Aryama and Bhaga together (gods of the two Phalguni stars). The would-be groom 
sends two elders on his behalf to the father of the girl he wishes to marry, to ask for her 
hand in marriage. This is exactly the meaning of “aryama”: a friend who asks for a girl to 
marry his friend. When asking his two elders to act in this role, the would-be groom 
recites two Vedic mantras invoking Aryama and. 


Rg (10.32.1): “Go straight to the target, bearing great and very satisfying gifts. Let these 
two reach their target happy and nourished!” 


Rg (10.85.23): “Seek the bride and bring her to the groom. Travel smoothly to her with 
Aryama and Bhaga.” 


Dexterity ~ Hasta 


The word hasta refers to a hand, the part of the body that grasps, moves, manipulates, and 
utilizes things. So the symbol of Hasta, a hand, simply illustrates its direct meaning. 


Hasta is the star of heightened awareness and dexterity. 


Savita is Hasta’s deity. He is the god of sunrise, who wakes us up and inspires us to use 
our hands. 


The word savitad means the awakener. It is made from the root Su which means “to 
inspire.” Savita inspires our awakening to awareness. 


Savita is connected with the Sunrise because when the Sun rises, we wake up. Light 
floods the world and we become aware of our surroundings. Rg Veda consistently treats 
Savita — the agent bestowing cognition - as the Sun, particularly the rising Sun. 


Eleven hymns in Rg Veda are entirely in honor of Savita, and he is mentioned about 170 
times throughout the book! Here are some that are relevant. 


10.158.3: “Divine Savita gives us sight as if from the mountaintop, and enables us to 
create.” 


Hasta creates “vision” (broad, far-reaching, and ambitious), and the 
dexterity to such visionary goals. 


10.158.4: “[Savita] puts vision in our eyes, into our bodies, into our world.” 


By spreading rays of light, the awakening sun (Savita) enables our eyes to see the world. 
Similarly the soul spreads rays of sentience through our body and thus enables us to be 
conscious of our existence. Savita is thus light and consciousness. 


Hasta grants heightened awareness. We become observant and difficult to 
deceive. We become more skilled, expert, and dexterous.[19] 


10.149 is an entire hymn describing Savita as the creator of the earth and heavens. 
Modern thought also considers the Sun to be the force which enabled primordial elements 
to form into planets, including the earth. 


10.139.1-2: “Blonde Savita rises in the east, spreading rays of eternal light by which 
we can nourish our desires like a cowherder. Shining upon the mortal world, the 
heavens, and the space between; he sets our sights upon the fertile pastures that 
spread from the east to the west, from within to without.” 


The Rg Veda here describes the rays of the Sun as harikesa. This means that (a) the 
sunlight is like the golden-blonde mane of the Sun, (b) Savita is blonde haired, (c) the 
sun’s light originates from the brilliant rays of Hari, the Godhead. 


Through Hasta, Savitad enables humanity to prosper by awakening to the new 
dawn, setting goals for the “day” and skillfully accomplishing them. 


Brahma Gayatri 

One part of Rg Vedic culture that has survived and thrived even up to today is a mantra 
from its third book which has become known as the savitr mantra, or the brahma gayatri 
mantra. This mantra is ideal for communing with Savita and unlocking the highest 
potentials of his star, Hasta. 


Taittiriya Aranyaka (2.11.1-8) states that mantras recited spiritually must be prefixed with 
key words that unlock their spiritual significance. “Om” is always to be the first syllable 
in the prefix. It identifies the spiritual fountainhead of all things, the Divine Being. Next, 
special syllables called vyahrti are to be affixed. These are the “utterances” which 
identify the “worlds” or levels of consciousness that set the context for the mantra to be 
chanted. The first three worlds are the most important, and so are called the maha-vyahrti 
(“great utterance”). These are the words bhir bhuvah svah - identifying heaven, earth, 
and the space in between. Next comes the mantra itself, Rg Veda (3.62.10). The complete 
Brahma Gayatri thus assembled is: om bh ur bhuva h sva h 
tdtsaviturvaren(i)yam 

bh a rgo dev a sya dhi mahi 

dhi yoy 6nahpracod a y at Invoking Divinity 

In the heavens, on earth and in the space between: 

Upon that most excellent form of Savita, 

the effulgence of divinity, we meditate. 

And by this meditation he becomes manifest to us. 


What is “the most excellent form of Savita (savitur vareniyam)?” As we know Savita is 
the sun, which gives light and thus awareness. The most excellent form of awareness is to 
be conscious of divinity (bhargo devasya). The Sun lights the heavens, the earth and the 
space between. Similarly the most excellent form of consciousness shows us the divine 
everywhere, at all times. By meditating upon the most excellent form of consciousness, it 
becomes our own consciousness! 


The highest potential for Hasta is to awaken a human being to grasp what this 
mantra describes: all-pervasive, all-encompassing consciousness of the 
divine. 


Another relevant mantra for Hasta: Indian custom is, upon awakening in the morning, to 
rub ones hands together, look at them, and say: karagre vasate laksmih 

karamadhye sarasvati 

karamile tu govindah 

prabhate karadarsanam “T look at my hands and realize that Laksmi (Goddess of 
Fortune) is at the top, Sarasvati (Goddess of Learning) is in the middle, but Govinda is at 
the root.” 


This mantra reminds us that our hands produce money (Laksmi) as a result of our skill 
(Sarasvati), but we are powerless to do anything without the blessing of Visnu (Govinda). 


Multifaceted Brilliance ~ Citra 


Meaning | Splendid 


Symbol | Multifaceted jewel 
Tvasta - god of design & creation 


The word citrd means: excellent, brilliant, prismatic, multifarious, multifaceted, 
wondrous, and ingenious. Appropriately, the symbol of Citra is an excellent gemstone, 
ingeniously cut into many facets to reveal its wondrous prismatic luster. The Deity of 
Citra is Tvasta, the god of creations which resemble that expertly cut jewel. 


Through Citra, Tvasta empowers humanity to comprehend multi-faceted 
designs, and generate masterpieces and technological marvels. 


The Creation of Creativity 

Tvasta is one of several Vedic deities who exist in a primordial, abstract form and later 
take a specific shape at some early point in universal history. For example: Primordial 
Aditi, the goddess of Punarvasu, is the abstract principle of space itself, a domain in 


which things can exist. Later she takes a concrete form as a goddess born as a grand- 
daughter of Brahma. 


Primodial Savita, the god of Hasta, is the abstract principle of conscious 
awareness. Later he takes a concrete form as a god born from Aditi. 


Tvasta, the deity of Citra, is similar. In primordial form Tvasta is the abstract 
power to create. Later on he becomes the god of creative expertise, taking 
concrete form as a god born from Aditi. 


The abstract, primordial forms of gods exist prior to tangible creation, and thus prior to 
Brahma. Logically, the abstract power to create must exist before anything can be created. 
So the abstract form of Tvasta exists before Brahma, and Brahma must use Tvasta’s 
energy to design and create the universe in which Tvasta soon takes birth as a tangible 
being. That is why the Vedas can call Tvasta “the Creator” without contradicting the idea 
that Brahma is the creator. 


This symbiotic relationship between Brahma and Tvastd causes their stars, 
Rohini and Citrd, to share the same symbiosis. When both stars are 
simultaneously active, they bestow ample amounts of artistry and skill in 
creative design. 


Tvasta actually takes two concrete forms in the universe. One, named Visvakarma, creates 
for the gods. The other, named Maya, creates for the anti-gods. [20] 


Visvakarma literally means “the one who creates everything.” Maya (which derives from 
the root, maya) means “art, extraordinary talent.” The word then refers to “magic” and 
from there to “sorcery, trickery and illusion.” As Visvakarma and Maya, Tvasta creates 
many fantastic beings and all the art, magic and technology of the gods and anti-gods. 
These creations fascinate, bewilder and confound all who look upon them. 


Wondrous Creations 


Citra is the star of architects, designers and engineers. Here are some details Citra’s deity, 
Visvakarma, to help drive this point home, illustrating how much expertise with 
technology, details, designs, etc. resides in Citra. 


Visnu Purana (1.15) describes Visvakarma as the chief designer of all the buildings, 
parks, statues and artwork in paradise. He created for the gods all their jewelry, their 
most advanced weapons, and their aircraft. He even designed the mechanisms by which 
the planets and stars move about in the heavens. 


Mahabharata speaks often of Visvakarma. Sabha.8.34 states that Visvakarma designed and 
built the palace of Yama, god of Bharani. Sabha.9.2 says that he designed and built the 
underwater palace of Varuna, god of Satabhisaj. Sabha.11.31 says that the universal 
creator Brahma, god of Rohini, keeps Visvakarma nearby at all times, calling upon his 
skill frequently. 


Visvakarma’s amazing technology includes airships, which some interpret as 
“spaceships.” The Ramayana and Mahabharata (Vana.161.37) state that he made his most 
famous airship out of flowers and gave it to Brahma as a gift.[21] 


Flying Cities 

The Mastya and Siva Puranas say that Maya created three flying cities for the anti-gods. 
The first was made of iron and hovered just above the surface of the earth. The second 
was made of silver and flew in the air. The third was made of gold and soared in space, 
above the clouds. The three cities moved in such a way that they would align in a straight 
line only once every thousand years; and only at this time could a single missile be shot 
through all of them. The cities had no other vulnerability. 


The anti-gods and their compatriots flourished and prospered in this unassailable triple 
city and thus the balance of power in the world was upset. To counteract this Visvakarma 
(Tvasta amongst the gods) created a flying battleship and a deadly missile using the 
powers and weapons of the gods as building materials. From this battleship, Siva 
successfully destroyed the three flying cities.[22] 


The Ultimate Weapon: “God’s Thunderbolt” 

Here is another story involving both forms of Tvasta, Maya and Visvakarma, showing 
their mastery of technology and design. The story, from Srimad Bhagavatam (6.7-12), 
began in the chapter on Pusya, where we heard how Indra insulted Brhaspati and was 
abandoned by him. 


Without his priest, Indra could not gain power by performing rituals, so the demons took 
over paradise. Brahma advised Indra to go to Maya’s son, a three-headed entity named 
Visvariipa, and request him to become the priest of the Gods. 


Visvaripa reluctantly accepted the request and taught Indra how to wear the “Narayana 
Kavaca” — a mystical coat of armor composed of mantra (incantations) dedicated to 
Visnu. With this protection, Indra could drive the anti-gods out from paradise. 


Visvaripa, however, secretly sent a portion of the ritual offerings to empower his 
relatives among anti-gods. When Indra discovered this, he furiously decapitated 
Visvaripa’s three heads. 


Hearing the fate of his son, Maya became enraged and created an extremely terrible and 
gigantic monster called Vrtra. Powerful Vrtra stormed into paradise and swallowed all 
the weapons cast at him by the gods. Completely hopeless and on the verge of disaster, the 
gods beseeched Visnu’s aid. 


Visnu told them that the spiritual armor Indra received from Visvarupa had been learned 
from his father, Maya, who got it from the Asvini twins, who learned it from a sage named 
Dadhici.[23] Dadhici’s body possessed extreme power as a result of mastering the use of 
this spiritual armor. Visnu told them to ask Dadhici to give them his body, and then ask 
Visvakarma to create a special “thunderbolt” weapon from the crushed bones of Dadhici. 
This weapon, Visnu said, could destroy the huge and otherwise indestructible Vrtra. 


Dadhici gave his body in charity, happy to follow the will of Visnu and become liberated 
from this world. Visvakarma then created a unique thunderbolt weapon from Dadhici’s 
bones. Indra and his powerful armies rode out to a terrible and devastating war with the 
hosts of anti-gods. In the end Vrtra, being an enlightened soul, allowed Indra to kill him 
with the special thunderbolt and attained liberation.[24] 


Replica Worlds 


Tvasta can even create replicas of other lands and worlds! 


Brahma Purana says that a sage named Atreya once requested Visvakarma to build hima 
duplicate version of the god’s paradise and Visvakarma did so. 


Brhat Bhagavatamrta by Sanatana Gosvami (a relatively recent work) says that 
Visvakarma even created a replica of the spiritual paradise, Vrndavana — the abode of Sri 
Krsna. He built it near Krsna’s city, Dvaraka, so that Krsna could use it to ease the pain of 
separation from his beloved childhood home. 


The Ultimate Palace 

Mahabharata (Adi.226) tells the story of how Maya came to build the ultimate royal 
home: Agfii, the god of fire, once got indigestion from consuming too many ritual 
offerings. Brahma told him that the herbs, roots and creatures of a forest named Khandava 
would cure his ailment. But every time Agfii tried to consume the forest in flames, 
torrential downpours put out the fire. The forest was protected by Indra, god of rains and 
the chief of heaven, because several important allies of his lived within it. 


Unable to defeat Indra’s rains, Aghi went to Arjuna and Krsna, who had recently built a 
prosperous city on the outskirts of the forest, and requested their help. He offered them 
gifts of divine weapons and appealed to their desire to rid the world of evil (hosts of 
ferocious demons and monsters flourished in the forest). Arjuna and Krsna agreed to help 


Agiti. 
Agni began to consume the forest and Arjuna made an umbrella of arrows above it, 
blocking Indra’s rain. 


Furious, Indra came with all the major gods to fight Krsna and Arjuna. The demons of the 
forest joined forces with them. Maya was involved, and hurled huge slabs of 
mountainside at Krsna and Arjuna. But the not even the combined forces of gods and anti- 
gods could overcome Krsna and Arjuna. Thus Angi successfully consumed the forest. 


During the battle Maya surrendered to the protection of Arjuna and became an ally. In 
gratitude for Arjuna accepting his surrender he constructed a palace for Arjuna and the 
Pandavas that combined the best art, magic and technology of heaven, earth, and the 
underworld. 


Peaceful forest groves flowered within the palace, and their fragrance spread on well- 
designed breezes (air conditioning). The centerpiece of the hall was a lake with living 
flowers made of gems and a surface that blended so seamlessly with the marble shoreline 
that many visitors to the palace unwittingly fell into the pool, being unable to tell the 
difference between the floor and the water. 


Citra is the star of detailed blueprints, refined skill, multiple talents and an 
ability to comprehend and give shape to many angles of a single subject. 
Through Citra, Tvasta empowers humanity to create wondrous things that 
require keen artistic sense, detailed expertise and nearly magical 
technological skills. 


Individuality ~ Svati 
~ ; Fa 


ini 


The main component of the word svati is sva, which means one’s own. The meaning of the 
name Svati, therefore, has to do with becoming an individual.[25] 


Svati’s symbol is a new flower bud bending against the strong wind. This is a symbol of 
“going against the grain” and making the effort to stand out on our own as an individual. 


The deity of Svati is Vayu, god of the wind that blows upon the new bud, making it strong. 
We will discover that Vayu is the god of Prana, which creates individuality in material 
beings. 


“Individuality” is the key word for Svati. 


Power 


Since Vayu is the god of the mighty wind, he is extremely powerful. He once held a 
contest of strength with the Naga king, Vasuki. Vayu couldn’t remove Vasuki from his grip 
on a mountain, but neither could Vasuki escape from Vayu’s grip. Visnu finally called a 
halt to the exhausting stalemate. When Vasuki unwound from the mountain Vayu ripped the 
peak from its roots and threw it far to the south. It landed in the ocean and became the isle 
of Lanka. 


Vayu is also the father of the mighty warriors Hanuman and Bhima. 


The Breath of Life 


Though Vayu is powerful, he is no brute of hurricanes and storms. He is not the god of 
wind so much as the god of air and of breath. Rg Veda (10.9) says that Vayu is the breath 
of Godhead. 


In modern terms, Vayu is the god of oxygen. Rg Veda (1.7.112) says that Vayu is the father 
of Agni. This is because fire (Agni) cannot burn without oxygen (Vayu). 


Brhadaranyaka Upanishad illustrates that nothing is more essential to life than Vayu / 
oxygen: The gods of the human body held a contest to see who among them was the most 
important. Selecting a man to serve as the arena for their contest, one by one the different 
deities left that man’s body. When the god of vision left, the man became blind and 
morose. Similarly when other deities abandoned him the man lost important functions. But 
when Vayu stood up to leave the man, every deity of the body became uprooted and 
forced to leave, too. Vayu sat back down and everyone returned to normal. Everyone 
admitted that nothing is more important to an individual’s existence than Vayu: god of 
breath. 


Our existence as an individual rests upon Vayu’s power: “life air” (prana or, perhaps, 
oxygen in modern terms). Here are several quotes illustrating this. 


Katha Upanishad (1.3.1) says: “The individual soul floats on the life-air in the core of the 
individual.” 


Srimad Bhagavatam (4.29.71) says: “Without life-air we lose our sense of ‘I.’ This 
temporarily happens in deep sleep, unconsciousness, or in terrible shock such as 
extremely high fever and during death.” 


Mundaka Upanishad 3.1.9 says: “The wise perceive the individual soul floating on five 
life-airs. The true individual does not manifest until it is purified of contact with those 
airs.” 


Indian thought holds the life-air to be a bridge element between matter and spirit. It is a 
type of rope which ties the conscious spirit to an individual body and identity, creating an 
ego divorced and separated from the divine whole. 


The intimate relationship between breath and ego is why a significant portion of classical 
yoga is devoted to breathing techniques. It also supports the concept that natal birth chart 
should be created for the moment of a child’s first breath. It is the moment of the child’s 
first contact with Vayu that is the foundation of their individuality and individual destiny. 
[26] 


The quote from Mundaka Upanishad suggests that there is another individuality which is 


“purified.” When the soul exists without the life-air it experiences an identity that is not 
separated from the divine whole. 


Yet another book, the Chandogya Upanishad, states that spiritual realization is impossible 
until one conceives of the individualizing life-airs in a spiritual manner, integrated with 
the divine whole: “One cannot know Brahman without knowing Vayu as ‘om.’” 


Svati is “ego.” It is the ability to establish a definition of “I.” Without Svati 
we are unable to clearly individualize ourselves. The ultimate potential of 
Svati is self-realization: it empowers humans to develop an ego that is 
integrated into the divine whole. 


Vayu and the Silk-Cotton Tree 

Mahabharata (Santi.154-156) tells a story involving Vayu and reminiscent of Svati’s 
symbol, illustrating the pride of false-ego and inflated individuality: There was once a 
silk-cotton tree so huge that its branches would not move in any storm, nor would even a 
single leaf or flower fall. A great sage, Narada, took shelter of this tree during a storm 
and, amazed, praised the tree’s power. The tree became very proud and came to consider 
itself more powerful than Vayu. 


Hearing of this, Vayu came and said, “You fool! If you are strong, fight me here and now!” 
Vayu blew off all the tree’s fruits, flowers and leaves. He then explained to the humiliated 
tree, “Long ago, Brahma rested in your shade. Out of deference to the sacred place I have 
always stilled my winds near you. It is not your power that made you great, it was my 
grace!” 


Svati empowers the self to be an individual, but the risk of individualism is 
egoism. So we must always remember that the powers and qualities that make 
us a unique individual are granted to us by the powers of the universe. We 
should not proudly think of ourselves as completely individual and 
disconnected from the divine whole. 


Obsession ~ Visakha 


9.” 


The root of the word Visakha is sakha, which means branch, division, or fork. The prefix 
vi indicates something that is: apart from, distinct, intense, and opposite. 


A branch or fork represents a decision. So sakha means a decision. Adding the prefix vi- 
indicates being intensely and distinctly decisive, not at all straying here and there on many 
different forks in the road. I translate visakhd as “One-pointed.” 


Sanskrit Lexicographers state that visakhd is a term for an archer’s ideal attitude in 
shooting a bow. He selects a target, aims carefully, and does not waver in the least. 


The most famous archer of Indian lore is Arjuna. It is said that when he would aim his 
arrow he would not even see anything except the exact spot at which he was aiming. This 
nicely illustrates the decisive focus Visakha can impart to us. 


The symbol of Visakha is a finish line, a target, a goal. I think the appropriateness is 
obvious. 


Visakha grants the ability to stay on course and make it as straight as 
possible to the finish line, the goal of the journey. 


There is a famous verse in Bhagavad-Gita (2.41) using the word (vi)sakha and illustrating 
a spiritual application of being “one-pointed”: vyavasayatmikd buddhir ekeha kuru- 
nandana 

bahu-sakha hy anantas ca buddhayo ‘vyavasayinam “[Spiritualists] have unwavering 
and one-pointed determination, O Son of Kuru; not the unlimited indecisiveness of 
many-branched ambition.” 


The nature of Visakha is fixation and decisive dedication. 


The Power to Get Things Done 

Visakha’s deity is Indraghi. Some people suggest that Indragni refers to two different 
gods: Indra and Agni taken together. However, Mahabharata and Rg Veda treat Indragii as 
a single deity. 


For example, Rg Veda (3.12) is a prayer to Indragfi. Mahabharata (Sabha.11) mentions 
Indragfii in the course of describing all the supernatural beings that attend Brahma. Two 
forms of fire attend the Creator: Aghisoma and Indraghi. These are the two forms of fire 
required for religious rituals. Agnhisoma is at Brahma’s service so that the Creator can 
have health and vitality (the principles of Soma) to live as long as the creation. Indragni is 
at Brahma’s service so that he can obtain divine intelligence and power by worshipping 
Visnu.[27] 


As you can see, there are many different types of fire (agfi). The foremost (indra) is the 
fire used in sacrifices and rituals. Thus, Indragfii is the god of ritual fire. 


We must put ourselves in a Vedic mindset before we can really understand what the god of 
ritual fire has to do with Visakha, the star of singular and decisive dedication to a goal. In 
Vedic culture, rituals are not irrelevant rites or obscure religious observances. They 
are the means to obtain what you desire! Whatever you desire, there is a Vedic ritual that 
grants you the merit to have your desire fulfilled by providence. 


Visakha is all about decisive commitment to an objective, and Indraghi is the god that 
enables us to achieve that objective. 


Visakha creates strong dedication to objectives and the ability to achieve 
those goals. Visakhd can give rise to Machiavellian ideals, such as “the end 
justifies the means” or similar convictions such as, “by any means 
necessary.” 


Goddess Visakha & Radha 

According to the Gaudiya Vaisnava concept, a goddess named Visakha attends the 
primordial fountainhead of all goddesses, Sri Radha. Her role is to help goddess Radha 
make decisions and keep her divine determination fixed. 


Considering Atharva Veda (19.7), it is quite likely that the original name of Visakha 
naksatra was “Radha.” It forms a pair with the next naksatra, Anuradha. 


Devotion ~ Anuradha 


Symbol | A flower on the finish line 


Deity | Mitra - god of devotion & 
friendship 


8, 6 and m Scorpionis 
ve 2 4 ¥ 


Anuradha shares a symbol with the previous star, Visakha. This is the second time we 
have come across a pair of stars sharing a symbol. The first was Prva and Uttara 
Phalguni. If we consider that the original name of Visakha may very likely have been 
Radha, it’s pairing with Anuradha becomes more obvious. 


The prefix anu- means “after, under, near, following, next, and towards.” If Visakha is 
originally “Radha” then the literal meaning of the name for the next star is obvious: Anu- 
Radha, “The star that follows Radha.” 


Visakha is the star of singular dedication and Anuradha is very similar, it is the star of 
deep devotion. The word rddhd means, “gifts and favors” and is derived from the word 
aradhana, “adoration & devotion.” Both stars in this pair are similar in their single- 
minded dedication, but Anuradha differs from Visakha in that her single-minded 
dedication is especially motivated by love and devotion. It is therefore fitting that 


Anuradha’s symbol differs slightly from Visakha’s: it is also a finish line, but has the 
addition of a flower — a symbol of love and devotion. 


The deity empowering Anuradha is Mitra, the Vedic god of devotion and friendship. 


Love is the Inspiration 


The first part of Mitra, mi-, means to “bring together.” The second part, -tra, means 
“instrument.” So Mitra is the god that “brings people together.” The word Mitra comes to 
mean “friend” because friendship brings people together and binds them to one another. 
Mitra is the “instrument of coming together,” the god of friendship and love. 


We can also derive this word from the root mid- (“to endear”) and the suffix -tra, so that 
mitra means “the vehicle of endearment”, love. 


Rg Veda thoroughly praises Mitra. There is one hymn in particular, the 59'" of the 3™ book, 
that is uniquely directed at Mitra without his usual companion Varuna: Mitra’s words 
inspire us to action 

Mitra sustains heaven and earth. 

Mitra looks on us with eyes that never close. 

Let this offering of sacred butter go to Mitra. 


Now read that again substituting “love” for the name Mitra. Love is the inspiration to 
action. Love sustains heaven and earth: all beings, even the gods, are sustained by love. 
The glance of a lover upon the beloved curses its own blinking, which removes the 
beloved from sight for a moment. Such is the glance of Mitra. 


Anuradha is the star where love acts as the inspiration for all actions. It is a 
star of tenderness, romance, and the need to give and receive affection. 


Love is the Law 


The same section of Rg Vedas continues and says, “O Mitra, we strive to live by your 
principles.” 


This indicates that Vedic people strove to live by the principles of love, and they made 
their laws on that basis, considering love to be the essence of all rules and laws. In fact, 
“the instrument that brings together” (mitra) is “that which binds.” Agreements, laws and 
promises are therefore a form of love. Thus Mitra, the god of affection and love, is also 
the god of principles and contracts. 


Anuradha abides by agreements, promises, and laws, as a result of affection 
and love for what those principles represent. 


Glory of Love 


I’ll continue to tell you key sections of this hymn to Mitra. Whenever you read the word 
“Mitra” remember the word “love.” 


Mitra is adorable and auspicious 
From the very beginning. 
He is gracious, generous and kind. 


Mitra is most deserving of praise. 


Mitra’s grace brings true gains. 
Inspiring us to achieve true glory. 
Mitra’s glory is well-known. 

It overpowers heaven. 

It surpasses the ends of the earth. 


Regardless of race, 
Everyone seeks Mitra’s shelter 
Which is always strong 
And sustains even the gods. 


Mitra nourishes everyone 
Gods, men, priests alike. 
He is the fulfillment of sacred law. 


Love and Lust 

Mitra forms a pair with Varuna. We will learn about Varuna in detail when we come to his 
star — Satabhisa. For now, suffice to say that Varuna is the god of the underworld, and 
therefore represents the “lower polarity.” Mitra is a solar deity, the “higher polarity.” One 
example of this polarity is seeing Mitra as the daytime and Varuna as the night. There is 
another example that is much more relevant to Anuradha. 


Love has two polarities: love (selfless) and lust (selfish). In Sanskrit, prema is selfless 
love, and kama is selfish love, lust. Mitra is love - meant to bring joy to others and bind 
us to others. Varuna is lust - meant to bring joy to oneself and to bind others to us. 


Anuradha is Mitra’s star of devotional dedication. It is impossible to totally separate 
selfless and selfish love, but the true aim and impetus of Anuradha is towards prema, 
selfless love. 


The following amazing story from Uttara Rama Carita (and referred to in Mahabharata 
Santi.88.343) illustrates this: Mitra- Varuna had kept themselves in a single body and were 
wandering on the seashore when they happened to meet Urvasi, the most delightful and 
attractive damsel of paradise. They made love, and Urvasi conceived. 


Mitra- Varuna then separated into distinct bodies, in disagreement of how to proceed. 
Varuna again propositioned Urvasi for sex, but she disliked his greed for it and rejected 
him in favor of Mitra. Varuna, however, couldn’t contain his excitement and ejaculated 
involuntarily. 


This made Urvasi feel sorry for rejecting a man in such need. She therefore collected the 
semen and put it into an artificial womb. She also discharged her newly fertilized egg and 
put that into the artificial womb as well. In a few days two children emerged: the great 
sages Agastya and Vaisistha. 


Radharani 
Visakha and Anuradha naksatra were known as “The two Radha’s” in Vedic times. It is 


impossible to write about these stars without at least referencing the Supreme Goddess of 
late-classical Vaisnavism: Radha, honorifically addressed as Srimati Radharani. 


The dedication of Sri Radha for her beloved Sri Krsna is the pinnacle of the Mitra- Varuna 
polarity where prema completely transforms kama; and is the highest realization of 
Mitra’s essential principle: love as the supreme law. 


Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu composed a verse beautifully expressing the infinitely selfless 
love of Sri Radha for Sri Krsna: Gslisya va pdda-ratam pinastu mam 
adarsanan marma-hatam karotu va 


yatha tatha va vidadhatu lampato 
mat-prana-nathas tu sa eva naparah 


Maybe he will embrace me, 
Maybe he will trample me underfoot, 
Or perhaps he will simply break my heart by not showing up at all... 


That Libertine can do anything he likes, 
But he will always be the only lord of my life’s breath! 


yesh 


Foremost 
Earrings, umbrella or amulet 


The word jyestha means, “chief, best, greatest, first, eldest.” Indra is the deity of Jyestha, 
and the words indra and jyesthd are synonyms. Both mean “eldest” in the sense of being 
first and foremost. Indra is “Jyestha” - He is the firstborn of the gods. 


The title “Indra” is also given to the Supreme Godhead Visnu, for it generically means 
“the best, the first, the eldest.” Generally, however, as a proper noun it refers to a god 
who is the king of paradise. 


Vedic literature has three main branches, each of which encapsulates a specific aspect of 
Indian culture. The Veda themselves represent ritualistic, materialistic culture. The 
Upanishads represent scientific and philosophical culture. The Puranas represent 
devotional culture. Indra is of prime importance — the God of Gods — in the Vedas, but his 
position is diminished significantly in the Upanishads and Puranas. This is because of 
what Indra inherently is. He is the king of paradise, the ultimate trademark of a living 
being enjoying life to its fullest extent. Thus his divinity is of unsurpassed significance for 


the ritualistic materialism dominating the Veda. But in the philosophical Upanishads and 
devotional Puranas his light is dimmed tremendously. 


The Rg Veda presents Indra as being very handsome and of golden complexion. In his 
hand is a weapon of thunderbolts, made by the divine architect Tvasta. The wind himself, 
Vayu, drives Indra’s brilliant golden chariot through the heavens (thus Indra is one of the 8 
original solar-deities, Adityas, of Rg Veda). He constantly drinks Soma and is therefore 
exceedingly powerful and delighted. 


The Puranas, however, focus far more on his flaws. This is because the Puranas downplay 
what Indra intrinsically represents: the height of self-oriented enjoyment and prosperity. 
So throughout the Purana we find tale after tale of Indra getting into trouble and making 
proud mistakes. 


A particularly poignant story in this regard is told in Padma Purana 1.56: Indra fell in love 
with the beautiful wife of a powerful yogi (Gautama). He assumed the form of her 
husband and came to her saying, “Lust has taken hold of me, let’s make love!” 


The yogi knew what was happening so he rushed back to his hermitage. When he saw 
Indra enjoying his wife, he cursed the god, “You seem to be so dedicated to vagina that 
you will do anything, no matter how wrong, to enjoy one; here then, let one thousand 
vaginas cover your body, and let your balls fall off!” 


Indra went to bathe in a sacred lake and pray to goddess Laksmi for a cure. 


She said, “Even I cannot undo the curse of a true yogi and sage! But I can modify it to your 
advantage. In each vagina let there be an eye — so you will be covered not with 1000 
vaginas but with 1000 eyes! And for testicles, I bless you to have those of a ram!” 


Indra throughout the Stars 
Being the king of the gods, Indra’s relevance spans through many stars. 


In ASvini’s chapter we read about how Indra wanted to keep certain knowledge from 
getting out, but the ASvini twins circumvented him. In that chapter we also heard how 
Indra wanted to prevent the Asvini from drinking Soma, but the sage Cyavana convinced 
Indra otherwise. 


In Krttika’s chapter we heard about the birth of Kartikeya. Prior to the beginning of that 
story, Indra sent Kamadeva (god of lust) to Siva to incite him to procreate (as you might 
recall, the Gods needed a child from Siva to defeat the anti-god that was destroying them). 
Siva opened his third eye and burned Kamadeva (who since that time has no physical 
body), thus Indra’s attempt was foiled. 


In this chapter we also heard how Agifii and Indra together tested the extent of King Sibi’s 
charitable nature. 


In Mrgasirsa’s chapter we learned about Soma, the drink that primarily belongs to Indra. 


In Punarvasu’s chapter we learned about Indra’s mother, Aditi. And we learned that she 
had Indra destroy her sister’s unborn child before he could become Indra’s rival. 


From this early event Indra developed intolerance rivals. This is an important 
part of Indra’s character, and an important part of Indra’s star, Jyesthda. 


In Pusya’s chapter we learned about Indra’s high priest, Brhaspati. We heard how Indra 
insulted Brhaspati and then suffered defeat by the anti-gods on account of losing his favor. 


In Citra’s chapter we learned how Tvasta eventually saved Indra from this predicament, 
and created Indra’s thunderbolt weapon. In this chapter we also heard that Indra was 
defeated by Arjuna[28] and Sri Krsna. 


In Aslesa’s chapter we learned about the Naga. An important Naga is Taksaka, who was a 
friend of Indra, and for whose sake Indra protected the Khandava forest and thus wound 
up having to battle and be defeated by Arjuna and Krsna. 


Symbols of Jyestha 
The primary symbol of Jyestha is an amulet / talisman. Secondarily, an earring and 
umbrella symbolize this naksatra. 


The amulet literally is the mystical armor, nardyana-kavaca, discussed in Citra’s chapter 
while explaining how Indra managed to defeat Vrtra. 


As for the earring and umbrella, Srimad Bhagavatam (10.59) tells a relevant tale: A 
person going by the name Narakasura became so powerful that he attacked paradise. In an 
act of defiance and insult he stole Indra’s royal umbrella and the earrings of his mother, 
Aditi. 

Indra sought the help of Sri Krsna, who along with his courageous wife Satyabhama 


mounted the great eagle, Garuda, and flew directly into battle. They destroyed Naraka and 
returned the stolen umbrella and earrings to Indra. 


Indra invited them to enjoy his hospitality in paradise. While there, Aditi taught many 
paradisic arts to Satyabhama. While leaving she requested from Krsna a flower from 
Indra’s most beautiful tree. When Krsna took this flower without asking, Indra became 
insulted and had to be defeated in a battle with Krsna, who took the entire tree in the end! 


Jyestha empowers humans to become like Indra: to be best, first, foremost, 
and kingly. It also has flaws similar to the flaws Indra possesses: to be 
intoxicated by power. 


Indra, Krsna, and the Umbrella-Mountain 

Srimad Bhagavatam (10.24-27) tells another story relating to Indra and the umbrella 
symbolism of Jyestha. It is the story of Krsna’s lifting Mount Govardhana to protect his 
friends and family from Indra’s anger: Sri Krsna grew up among cowherders. One day 
when he was six or seven years old, he saw his father and the men of the village busy 


doing something apparently very important. 
“Dad, what is going on?” He asked. 

“Don’t worry, go play with your friends!” 
“You have to educate me!” Krsna replied. 


His father smiled, full of affection. Other’s came over to enjoy the conversation. “We are 
preparing for an important sacrifice,” his father explained. 


“For who?” Krsna asked. 

“For Indra.” 

“Why?” Krsna asked. 

“Because we are farmers and Indra is the god who controls the rain.” 
“Dad, have you ever seen Indra?” Krsna asked. 


His father was at a loss for words, so Krsna continued, “You say Indra is responsible for 
our well-being, but we don’t even see him. And what’s more we see rain falling on the 
ocean where no one ever worships Indra.” 


The men were dumbfounded to hear a young child speak like this. 


“T see cows!” Krsna said. “I see rivers. I see grasses, vegetables, trees and fruits. I see 
teachers and philosophers. All these things I can really see are the things that are 
responsible for our well-being! Don’t worship Indra, worship them!” 


“But son,” Krsna’s father said, “If we neglect the gods we will make them angry.” 


“Don’t worry about any of that!” said Krsna cheerfully. And he was so charming that all 
the men actually changed their plans and used all the ingredients of Indra’s sacrifice to 
instead worship the animals and people in nature that were directly supporting and 
nourishing them. 


It was an enormously festive occasion, but Indra was wondering where his sacrifice was. 
He became furious when he observed all the villagers listening to a young boy telling 
them not to bother worshipping Indra. He called forth his most powerful storm clouds and 


sent them to Krsna’s village, Vrndavana. 


The villagers became extremely fearful when the terrible storms let loose torrential 
downpours. They rushed to Krsna for protection. He lifted the local mountain, Mount 
Govardhana and held it aloft for seven days on the pinky finger of his left hand, creating 
an umbrella under which the entire village was kept dry and safe. 


Realizing Krsna to be Visnu himself, Indra stopped the storms and hurried to apologize. 
Because he brought the cow of paradise with him, Krsna’s heart was softened and he 
forgave the king of the gods. 


Jyestha’s higher nature is to empower human beings to shelter and protect 
others, like Krsna did by lifting the umbrella of Mount Govardhana, like a 
king (“Indra”) does for his citizens, and like the eldest (“Jyestha”) does for 
his siblings. 


Uprooting ~ Mula 


Symbol 
Nirrti - goddess of destruction 
The tail of the Scorpion 


be 

a 
e 
‘ 


The Sanskrit word mula means, “Root, bottom, foundation, origin, beginning, and 
primary.” It even refers to a “corpse,” perhaps because the body is the root of ego and of 
our comnection to a world that in always ina state of destruction. 


Its connection to “roots” is a symbol that reveals Mula’s proclivity towards 
herbalism, medicines and drugs. It also expresses Mila’s penchant for 
seeking the origin, beginning, and unseen root of things. 


Miia belongs to the goddess Nirrti, the goddess of destruction. The word nirrti has two 
parts nir- and rta. Rta means, “true, luminous, proper, right, lawful.” The prefix, nir-, 
means, “without.” So, Nirrti means “unlawful, improper, dark, false, and evil.” 


Mula impels humanity towards lawlessness and an untamed spirit. 


Mahabharata (Adi.66.54) depicts Nirrti as the wife of Adharma (Immorality). They have 
three sons, Bhaya (Fear), Maha-Bhaya (Terror), and Antaka (Murder). 


Agni Purana (chapter 51) says that Nirrti should be worshipped wielding a sword and 
riding on a donkey. Devi Bhagavata (8"" division) says that she dwells ina city called 
“Ink Black” (“Krsnafijana’’), and is the guardian of the South-East, a direction symbolic of 
pain and suffering. 


Nirrti the Destroyer has both a male and female form, a “Rudra” and “Rudrant.” The 
chapter on Rudra’s star, Ardra, has much to say which is pertinent to Ardra’s sister-star, 
Mila. In particular it’s important to recall that the Howling Destroyer (Rudra) becomes 
the Auspicious One (Siva) after directing his attention to spiritual pursuits. 


Mila provides impetuses and resources that are very well suited for spiritual 
paths. It therefore inspires humanity towards spiritual pursuit: seeking the 
root of all things, destroying illusions, and going beyond the limitations of 
what is superficial. 


Transforming Destruction into Auspiciousness 

Atharva Veda (5.7) depicts Nirrti in two forms: one is horrific and ghoulish, while the 
other is blonde, fair, golden-clad and wealthy: Misfortune, go far away! 
We deflect your arrow! 

We know you well, Nirrti! Oppressor, destroyer! 

A wild, naked woman haunting our dreams, 

Confusing and baffling us I respect you, blonde Nirrti 

Vast as all of space 

Full of auspiciousness, golden-complexioned, 

reclining on gold, dressed in gold, 

I respect you. 


The first form of Nirrti is unfortunate, baffling and confusing, It is an oppressive, 
destructive, naked undead who haunts our thoughts. The second is auspicious, golden, 
blonde and spread throughout space. 


Mila is fearsome and destroys us. But when we respect the function of 
destruction as a necessary stage prior to a new creation, we receive 
auspicious and beneficial energy from Mula. 


When destruction takes place things are flattened and laid low, razed to the ground, only 
the roots remain. Corpses or their ashes are put underground, or into water so that they 
soak into the earth. Destruction (Nirrti) is intimately tied to what is low and deep (Mila). 


The goddess of destruction works through Mila. Few people seek destruction, but it is 
nonetheless an essential part of the balance of nature. It would be good to review the 
chapters on Bharani (star of the god of death) and Ardra (star of the god of destruction and 
storms) to remember how negative things are essential to positive things. 


Through Mula we can destroy all that deserves destruction. We can seek our 
true origin, our true root, and destroy all that is superficial. 


The Invincible ~ Purva Asadha 


The Asadha stars are the third of the four naksatra pairs in the Vedic sky. Piirva Asadha 
is, of course, the first star in this pair: which is composed two groups of parallel stars that 
reminded the Vedic people of two elephant tusks. 


Asadha means, invincible. Elephant tusks are certainly invincible. They smash through 
anything that stands in their way, but Purva Asadha is not like a bulldozer. Another symbol 
for it is a fan — something that keeps us cool and calm. Continuing the theme of being cool, 
calm and refreshed, the deity of Piirva Asadha is the goddess of water: “Apas.” 


There is a close relation between Apas and the following gods: Varuna, god of the 
waters. Apas is Varuna’s wife. 


Soma, the ultimate liquid; ambrosia of the gods which grants unsurpassed 
health and enjoyment. 


Indra, god of rains. 


Agni, god of fire, since fire “enters into” water to rest and recuperate.[29 | 


Rg Veda (7.49) is a prayer to Apas which makes these connections quite clear: From the 
sea comes the waters (Apas) of the flowing rivers; 

Never sleeping, always cleansing. 

Their paths dug by Indra, the thunderous bull. 

Goddesses, protect me! 


Waters from heaven 
Waters from earth 
Waters from below the surface 
Bright, purifying, speeding towards the ocean. 
Goddesses, protect me! 


Within you goes mighty Varuna 
Who tells morality from immorality. 
From you comes Soma — bright and purifying. 
Goddesses, protect me! 


Mighty Varuna, Soma, and all the gods 
drink from you to gain strength and vigor. 
Into you goes fire (Agni). 
Goddesses, protect me! 


Thus, Pirva Asadha is thematically harmonious with: Satabhisaj, Varuna’s star 
Mrgasirsa, Soma’s star Jyestha, Indra’s star Krttika, Agii’s star The word Apas refers 
directly to water itself. The goddess of water can be more personally addressed as 
Varuni. Padma Purana (Bhtimi.119) says that when the gods and anti-gods churned the 
ocean of milk, by Varuna’s efforts four goddesses appeared from the ocean: Sulaksmi, 
Varuni, Kamoda and Srestha. Varuni married Varuna and became the goddess of water, 
Apas. 


Purifying, Nourishing and Delicious 

Rg Veda (7.47) describes water (Apas): O Apas, grant us today the purest refreshment 
Found in the sacred beverage of the king of gods 

Richly sweet, and soundly nourishing. 


O Apas, child of floods, whose course is rapid, 
Protect us with a wave of that delicious drink 
Which makes the king of the gods and all the gods joyful. 
Grant us this today. 


[This treats water as being nearly identical to Soma, the divine beverage, and being 
therefore very dear to Indra, the king of the gods. ] 


O Apas, the rivers joyfully purify us. 
They are goddesses, paths flowing to the gods. 
Always obeying divine law, 

We offer our buttered-sacrifice to the rivers. 


Sirya’s bright rays attract them. 
Indra digs the paths they travel. 
Let these streams give us wide fields and freedom to move. 
By your blessing, O gods, let it be. 


Strength, Health and Fertility 

Rg Veda (10.9) describes Apas: O Waters (Apas) you are beneficent 

So bring us energy, to find happiness 

Give us your most auspicious liquid 

Like a loving mother We gladly come to you, to carry us swiftly forward 
And give us fertility O Waters, be our drink; Goddesses to aid and delight us 
Send us a river of strength and health[30] 


I beg your protection, O Waters 
Goddesses of precious things, who control us all Soma says that all healing comes from 
water 
So also says Agni, who blesses everyone O Waters, may your abundant healing keep me 
healthy 
So I may long see the sunlight Whatever sin is in me, whatever evil I have done, 
Whatever lies I have made... O Waters, take it far from me! 


O Waters, with this prayer I seek the blessing of your moisture 
Send forth Agfi to nourish and bath me in light 


The Nature of Pirva Asadha 

We know that Pirva Asadha is about strength and victory because Asddha means 
invincible and the invincible elephant tusk is one of this star’s symbols. But from the 
symbol of a fan and the nature of Pirva Asadha’s deity, Water, we learn Pirva Asadha 
imparts invincibility like water — strong enough to destroy stone, yet still soft and cool. 


Purva Asadha is a star of strength through purity. It confers strength and 
power to mankind, but in a pleasant manner, like the invincible yet appealing 
power of water. Being both appealing and powerful, Purva Asadha creates 
leaders with significant popularity and mass appeal. As Apas brings together 
the powers of many gods, Varuna, Indra, Soma and Agni so does Purva 
Asadha create people who call pool together a wide range of skills and 
resources to become successful — though this last trait is even more prominent 
in the next star, Uttara Asadha. 


Complete Victory ~ Uttara Asadha 


UttaraA s ad ha 
Invincible (II) 
Symbol | Elephant tusk 


Deity | Visvedeva - all supernatural 
powers 


C and  Sagittarii 


Uttara Asadha is the second in the Asadha pair; the second “elephant tusk.” As with all 
the paired stars, the second shares all the main themes of the first, with some subtle yet 
important differences. Uttara Asadha is like Pirva Asadha in granting power to humanity, 
but it differs from the former by being less self-oriented and more inclined to consolidate 
power and resources from many diverse supporters. This is because the deity of Uttara 
Asadha is not a singular being but a complete plurality of all the gods and goddesses. 


The invincibility of this second Asadha comes from the ability to pull together 
many divergent resources and make them work for a common purpose. 


Both Asadha stars are invincible and undefeatable — but Uttara Asadha lacks the soft, 
watery element which made Ptrva Asadha’s power more appealing. Thus Uttara Asadha 
appears more literally undefeatable and unchallengeable, much like an elephant storming 
through a gate. 


All Inclusive Divinity 


Visva literally means, “all, every.” Deva means “divinity.” The fundamental meaning of 
the word Visvadeva is, “every divinity.” 


The Rg Veda adopts this meaning and has many prayers directed to all the gods, on the 
principle that no divinity should be left out from praise. As Visvadeva, all the gods 
cooperate together under a central deity, usually Indra (see Rg 3.54.17). 


Visnu Purana and other Puranas do not ignore this meaning, but give an additional 
definition of the Visvadeva as one of nine special groupings of divinity. There are usually 
10, sometimes 12, deities counted in this group, all of whom are said to be children of 
Visva, one of the daughters of the universe’s genetic engineer, Daksa. These deities 
control the various powers required to be a well-rounded and successful individual. 


From either angle, the Visvadeva empower humanity to draw upon a large 
pool of resources, and become successful as a result of being endowed with 
qualities and skills from diverse sources. 


Another effect of drawing power from all sources: 


Uttara Asadhad empowers human beings to give “110%” to their tasks, 
drawing all available power and pouring it into each of their endeavors. 


Listening Carefully ~ Sravana 


Listening 


Symbol | Ear, three footprints 


Visnu - god of existence 
Altair and the two nearest stars 


* 


Sravana means “the act of acquiring knowledge.” It comes from the root sru (“to hear”). 
We acquire knowledge, literally and figuratively, by listening - so Sravana means 
“acquiring knowledge by listening.” An ear is a very straightforward symbol for this star. 


Through Sravana humanity becomes good listeners, speakers and audio- 
smiths. 


We have heard a lot about Visnu throughout this book. 


In the chapter on Bharani we learned how Visnu rescued a person whom he 
heard calling his name, “Narayana.” 


In the chapter on Rohini we learned about Visnu in relation to his “child,” 
Brahma. I heartily suggest rereading that section to refresh yourself on its 
important details pertaining to Visnu. 


In the chapter on Punarvasu we heard how Visnu covered all of existence in 


three steps. (Another symbol for Sravana is three footsteps.) In Aslesa’s 
chapter we heard about Visnu in relation to his companion, the dragon Sesa. 


In Parva Phalguni’s chapter we heard that Visnu is “Bhagavan” in the fullest 
sense. 


Visnu is the origin of existence itself. The word visnu means “that which is everywhere.” 
Space is everywhere. It is what everything is inside of, and what everything has within it. 
The sensory wavelength carried by space (according to the science of Samnkhya) is sound. 
Sound is what the ear hears. Thus all-pervading Visnu is a perfect fit for Sravana, the star 
of listening. 


Visnu is also the god that enables us to listen carefully. To listen carefully we need a 
pensive and clear state of mind. As we learned in the chapter on Rohini, this world has 
three primary effects on us: sometimes it excites us to action (rajas), sometimes it lulls us 
to sleep (tamas) and sometimes it allows us to be balanced and clear (sattva). Brahma is 
the god of rajas. Rudra / Siva is the god of tamas. Visnu is the god of sattva — clarity. So 
Visnu enables our minds to be clear and pensive so we can listen carefully and gain 
knowledge. 


Sravana is a star of paying attention and acquiring knowledge. It is an 
excellent star for education and intelligence, empowering us to ask intelligent 
questions, listen carefully to answers, and seek qualified teachers. 


Visnu is a very transcendental, non-materialistic god. Thus Sravana is particularly well 
suited to helping humanity acquire spiritual knowledge. A famous verse in the Bhagavata 
Purana (7.5.23) explains that the nine processes for obtaining enlightenment all begin with 
and are rooted in “Visnu Sravana” — hearing from and about Visnu. 


Through Sravana Visnu inspires human beings to seek deeper knowledge, 
spiritual truths, enlightenment and divine love. 
Visnu in Rg Veda 
Visnu is frequently invoked in Rg Veda (in 93 different places). He is mainly known there 
as the younger brother of Indra who reclaimed the universe for Indra in three steps. 


It is undeniable that Rg Veda, being a comparatively materialistic and practical text, 
focuses primarily on Indra.[31] But Visnu is uniquely attributed in a few notable 
instances. For example Rg 1.22.20: tad visnoh paramam padam sada pasyanti suryah 


“The gods always look towards the supreme feet of Visnu.” 
Rg (1.154.4) also states, “In truth, Visnu alone maintains the existence of all things.” 


Rg (1.156.2) says, “Visnu is the ancient and the recent, the creator of existence and the 
creator of his own existence.” 


Visnu’s Incarnations 

Srimad Bhagavatam (1.3) gives the following account of Visnu’s incarnations in this 
world: At the very beginning, the All-Attractive takes the form called Purusa [a synonym 
for Visnu], to manifest everything required for creation. He produces great 
conglomerations of primordial energies and enters each, reclines upon the water there, 
and enters a mystic sleep. A lotus flower grows from the lake of his naval, atop which 
Brahma, the master engineer of the universe, is born. 


Then Purusa enters every minute particle of the universe, becoming the inexhaustible seed 
of the multitudes of incarnations, fragments of which create gods, animals, humans and so 
forth. 


His most noteworthy incarnations, in summary, are: 


iB 


10. 


11. 


The children [Kumara] performed the difficult spiritual task of uninterrupted 
celibacy. 


. The boar [Varaha] rescued the earth from the lowest dregs of the universe and lifted 


her back into her proper place. 


. The Sage of the Gods [Narada] compiled purifying books about how to live in the 


world without becoming entangled in selfishness. 


. The sages Nara-Narayana were born from Dharma’s wife. They showed how to 


perform very serious disciplines of self-control. 


. When empirical sciences were forgotten, the master of perfections, Kapila, revived 


them by teaching Asuri. 


. Atri’s wife Anasiya once prayed for a divine son. That son [Dattatreya] instructed 


spiritual knowledge to Alarka, Prahlada and others. 


. Yajiia, born from Akiti and Ruci, took care of the world during the difficult 


transition out of the Svayambhu Era.[32] 


. Urukrama, born from Merudevi and Nabhi, showed the path walked by supremely 


enlightened souls. 


. As an earthly king [Prthu], he answered the prayers of sages by milking the earth to 


make her body very verdant and attractive. 


During the global flood of the “Caksusa” era, he became a fish [Matsya] and 
protected the lord of humans by keeping him safe on a boat. 


In the form of a tortoise [Kurma] his shell provided the foundation for Mt. Mandara 


12, 
13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


IZ: 


18. 


19. 
20. 


2A 


22, 


when the gods and demons were churning the ocean. 
Dhanvantari was the twelfth, [who produced the nectar], and... 


Mohini was an intoxicatingly beautiful woman who gave that nectar to the gods 
while charming the others with her allure. 


Narasimha was the man-lion whose claws split open the powerful demon-god, like 
a Carpenter splitting wood. 


Vamana went to Bali’s ritual court and peacefully begged three steps of land, for the 
sake of reclaiming the three worlds. 


When kings began to hate moral guidance, ParaSurama protected the earth by 
annihilating all their militias, twenty one times. 


Vyasa entered the womb of Satyavati through Parasara, to present the many branches 
of the tree of knowledge in a way which less intellectual commoners could grasp. 


Rama assumed the role of a human king and, for the sake of the gods, performed 
many heroic deeds like controlling the ocean. 


Bala-Rama... 


...and Krsna, were born in the Vrsni family. The All-Attractive thus removed the 
earth’s burden. 


When the age of Kali advances, he will bewilder those who dislike the godly. He 
will be named Buddha, the son of Afijana of Gaya. 


When the age of Kali draws to a close and almost all the rulers are criminals he will 
take birth to protect the world with the name Kalki, son of Visnu Yasa. 


Visnu is a vast sea of being! Thousands of inexhaustible rivers and lakes come from this 
sea. Likewise, his incarnations are beyond count. All! the sages, gods, progenitors, and the 
original lords of mankind, as well as their extremely powerful descendants, are portions 
of Visnu. 


They are all fragments or expansions of Purusa. They all incarnate, age after age, to 
protect the world whenever the gods’ enemies disturb it. But among them all Krsna is 
unique, because he is the All-Attractive One himself! 


Anyone who carefully recites this list of confidential incarnations of the All-Attractive in 
a spirit of devotion in the morning and evening gets freed from all misery. 


Getting Practical ~ Dhanistha 


3 A 


Steady sound 


Symbol | Drum 


Vasu — primordial elements 


Many explain the word dhanisthd as, “wealth (dhana) that is steady (nistha).” But the 
more accurate meaning is, “sound (dhan) that is steady.”[33] This understanding of the 
word dhanistha makes it easy to understand why a drum serves as its symbol. 


An alternate name for this star is Sravistha.[34] As we learned in the previous chapter, the 
word srav- has to do with sound and hearing. Sravistha means, “that which is founded on 
sound and hearing.” 


Thus the best way to understand and translate the meaning of Dhanistha is Steady Sound. 


The deities of Dhanistha are the Vasu. The word vasu means “ray of light,” and, 
“something of excellence and goodness.” There are eight deities collectively called the 
Vasu. These deities are the excellent powers of the Supreme Divinity. They are like they 
rays of light expanding from the Supreme: Earth, Water, Fire, Air, Sky / Space, Sun, 
Moon, and Stars.[35] 


What do these eight elements have to do with “steady sound?” 


Many cultures share a concept that creation begins with sound. In the Christian Bible, for 
example, Genesis (1:3) says, “And God said, ‘Let there be light:’ and there was light.” Or 
John (1:1), “In the beginning was the Word, it was with God and it was God.” 


Vedic culture holds the same essential concept. Sound vibrates in “space”, which is the 
matrix in which everything exists and which exists within everything. Sound is at the root 
of every element and every creation. Sound therefore inspires change more effectively 
than anything else. We all know the power of music, but there are said to be more 
powerful sound-formulae called “mantra” which can call things into being simply by 
sound. 


Since sound is the vibration that catalyzes space to bring forth all the other elements of 
creation, those elements (the Vasu) are literally srdvistha or dhanistha — things that “have 
their roots and foundation (nistha) in sound (dhan).” 


The Vasu represent the tangible unfolding of cosmic power, the potential becoming 
kinetic. There is an important relationship to note between the former star, Sravana (the 
star of hearing), and the current star, Sravistha / Dhanistha (the star of acting — putting into 
practice what you have heard). Dhanistha empowers humanity to put knowledge and 
theories into practice; and make tangible, practical use of our plans and concepts. 
Dhanistha is therefore a most practical star, favorable for accomplishing deeds and setting 
plans into motion. 


More Practical than Emotional or Romantic 

The Mahabharata tells a fascinating tale involving the Vasu. It begins when they were 
enjoying a picnic one day in the forest. The wife of the Sky Vasu saw a beautiful cow 
wandering nearby. To please her, the Sky Vasu took the cow back to their abode when they 
returned home. 


This cow belonged to a powerful sage named Vasistha. When his cow did not return he 
used his mystical vision and saw that the Sky Vasu stole it. He laid a curse upon all of the 
eight Vasu: “Since you act like humans, you will all be born on Earth as humans!” 


When they learned of the situation the Vasu rushed to Vasistha to beg forgiveness. He 
lightened his curse thus, “Your birth will be extremely short, except for the Sky Vasu. He 
will have to live a full term.” 


The worried Vasu approached the River Ganges and asked her to become their mother and 
help them. Accepting their plea, she took the form of a beautiful woman and appeared out 
of the waters of the Ganges river on earth. A handsome king was doing worship on the 
shore, so she approached him and sat on his right thigh. 


He rebuked her, “Dear lady, only my daughter or daughter-in-law may sit there.” 


Ashamed by the king’s moral fortitude in the face of her licentious proposition, the Ganges 
returned into the water. But later, when that king’s wife had a son, the Ganges again 
appeared and the son fell in love with her. She agreed to become his wife on one 
condition, “you must never question anything I do.” 


She became pregnant seven times. Each time she immediately took the newborn to the 
Ganges and dropped the child in the water to drown! Thus seven of the eight Vasu were 
born very briefly as human beings, fulfilling the curse of Vasistha. 


When she was carrying the eighth child to the river, her husband could no longer tolerate 
the pain. He cried out, “O woman, what are you doing!?!?” Thereupon she turned around, 
placed the child in his arms, and disappeared into the waters. 


This eighth child was the Sky Vasu, who had to life an entire human lifetime as Bhisma, 
the “grandfather” in the epic tales of Mahabharata. 


All the problems of the Vasu sprang from a romantic exchange between 
husband and wife. This explains why Dhanistha has a reputation of being 
unfavorable to marriage. Bhisma himself never married or had any romantic 
relationship with a woman, despite his being the most attractive of princes. 
[36] Dhanisthd is more concerned with the practical rather than the 
emotional or romantic. 


The Underworld ~ Satabhisaj 


The name Satabhisaj is made by combining Sata + bhisaj. Sata means “100” or “a large 
number.” Bhisaj means a “healer” or a “cure.” So I translate it as “Hundreds of Healers” 
or “Hundreds of Cures.” 


Varuna is the deity empowering Satabhisaj. In the oldest hymns of the Rg Veda, Varuna is 
the god of the night sky while his inseparable companion Mitra is the god of the daytime 


sky. 
The name Varuna literally means, “The All-Enveloping Sky.” Satabhisaj’s empty-circle 
symbol is an image of the sky. Specifically, Varuna is the god of the half of the sky that 


hides (“envelopes”) the Sun. When the Sun falls below the western horizon it enters this 
enveloping half of the sky. Satabhisaj’s empty circle also represents a “dark sun”. 


Since his domain begins where the Sun sets, Varuna is connected to sunset and the west. In 
fact, among the eight deities who guard the directions, Varuna is in charge of the west. 


Satabhisqj is a star of aeronautics and other atmospheric endeavors. It is the 
star of western civilization and plays a significant role in the concomitant 
technological development of humanity. 


The Underground 

The Rg Veda declares that Varuna is the chief of the “Asura.” This does not make hima 
“demon,” it merely indicates that he is a force of darkness. Sura connotes “light” (thus the 
Sun is called Sura) and Asura connotes “darkness.” Since Varuna takes the Sun into 
darkness, naturally he is an Asura. 


But the demonic motif does extend a little further. The enveloping, dark sky is also 
daksinayana, the “lower half of the universe.” The lower half of the universe is the 
“underworld.” Having dominion over the lower universe, Varuna also has dominion over 
the “underworlds.” He is to the underworld what Indra is to the heavens. 


Satabhisaj promotes counter-culturalism and underground movements and 
social groups. 


Mysterious Depths 

In Vedic cosmology a cosmic ocean is said to exist in the lower half of the universal 
sphere. Varuna’s dominion over the underworld therefore also gives him dominion over 
water, and he also becomes famous as the god of waters. In Bhagavad Gita (10.29), Sri 
Krsna indicates that Varuna is the foremost of all beings that dwell in the water: varuno 
yadasam aham, “Among water-dwellers I am Varuna.” 


As we learned in the chapter on Purva Asadha, Varuna is more precisely the husband of 
the waters, and Varuni, his wife, is the actual goddess of water. 


Satabhisaj is a naksatra with significant mysteriousness and allure, like the 
deep ocean. 


All-Seeing Justice 

Since he is the god of the night sky, the stars provide the light by which he sees. The stars 
are therefore said to be his eyes. There are more stars in Satabhisaj (“hundreds”) than any 
other naksatra. Through these stars Varuna watches the hidden affairs of humans and 
arrests the duplicitous and deceitful in his divine noose.[37] 


Satabhisqj is a star of justice and fair treatment, punishing whomever 
deserves punishment, without consideration of their status. It is therefore a 
source of revolutionary movements and liberal forces in human society. 


Doctors 


Atharva Veda, Taittertya Samhita, and Taittertya Brahmana say: “The god of medicine 
himself cannot cure someone who falls ill when the Moon is in this naksatra.” 


Being the god of the underworld, Varuna has great control over the affairs of death. Being 
the god of waters, he has great control over the power to give life. Varuna is therefore 
treated in Rg Veda as the god of immortality; he holds the power of life and death. His is 
the star of healers and cures. 


Satabhisaj has special medical significance. Illness with roots in this 
naksatra is very difficult to cure. And conversely, cures applied under the 
influence of this naksatra are highly effective. 


Ancient Equinoxes 

Varuna’s carrier is the fearsome sea-monster called a Makara (the creature we call a 
“Capricorn”). This, of course, is due to his lordship over the deep seas, but the 
symbolism also suggests that the very ancient Indians evaluated solstices and equinoxes, 
and may well have employed a twelvefold “zodiac” division based on them. 


Winter Solstice 


Vernal Equinox 


The oldest hymns of Rg Veda most probably took formal shape about five thousand years 
ago when the Winter Solstice occurred with the heliacal rising of Satabhisaj. By 
definition, the Winter Solstice is the beginning of Capricorn (“Makara”, Varuna’s 
vehicle). This suggests that the symbol for Capricorn may derive from Varuna, the god 
whose star held the Winter Solstice when the symbolism became decided. 


Varuna and Satabhisaj’s connection to the winter solstice and Capricorn is yet deeper — 
because the winter solstice marks the end of daksindyana — the six months the Sun spends 
moving towards Varuna’s “underworld.” 


Ancient locations of the other cardinal points in respect to the naksatra are also 
fascinating. In ancient Rg Vedic times the Summer Solstice would have occurred near the 
heliacal rising of the Naga’s star, Aslesa. Varuna and the Naga are close companions, 
since they rule the underworld together, the Naga cooperating under Varuna’s leadership. 
The Summer and Winter solstices, which mark the entrance to and exit from the 
underworld, were guarded by the Naga in Aslesa and Varuna in Satabhisaj. 


The Vernal and Autumnal Equinoxes, on the other hand, occurred in those ancient times 
with the heliacal rising of Krttika and Anuradha, respectively. Anuradha belongs to Mitra, 
god of the daytime sky — the inseparable polar opposite of Varuna. Krttika belongs to 


Agni, the bright god of fire. 


The Dark Sun 
Although Varuna is an Asura, he is one of the children of Aditi — and therefore represents 
a form of the Sun: the dark sun; the midnight sun — a dark and empty circle. 


It may be interesting to note that most of the children of Aditi own naksatra. Rg and Yajur 
Veda name eight Adityas, the eighth was rejected by his mother, but later redeemed.[38] 


1. Varuna deity of Satabhisa 

Mitra deity of Anuradha 
Aryama deity of Uttara Phalguni 
. Bhaga deity of Piva Phalgunt 
Amsa 

Dhatr 

. Indra deity of Jyestha 

. Martanda / Vivasvana 


ONAAXRWN 


It is reasonable that the eighth Aditya has no star, since he was rejected by his mother, but 
what about the fifth and sixth, Amsa and Dhatr? In my estimation, Amsa (which means 
“ray” implying “resplendence”) is equivalent to Savita, the deity of Hasta; and Dhatr is 
similarly equivalent to Tvasta, the deity of Citra. 


So the complete list of Adityas owning stars: 


1. Varuna deity of Satabhisa 

Mitra deity of Anuradha 
Aryama deity of Uttara Phalguni 
. Bhaga deity of Pirva Phalguni 
Arma / Savita deity of Hasta 

. Dhatr / Tvasta deity of Citra - 
. Indra deity of Jyestha é Je z 
. Martanda / Vivasvana ‘ Savita |i 


ot 


ONAUAAWHD 


Destruction ~ Purva Bhadrapada 
ee Ce 


This is the first of a pair of stars named Bhadrapada, which means a “blessed step.” 


The shared symbol of the two Bhadrapada is a hearse: a vehicle that carries a dead body 
to its final destination. How odd for a hearse to symbolize “blessed steps!” Reflecting on 
this, we should realize that the “steps” of the Bhadrapada stars refer to the path on which 
we journey from this life to the next. 


Alternative symbols for Pirva Bhadrapada: 
Swords, symbolizing the cutting of ties and attachments to our former life. 


A man with two faces, symbolizing a soul looking in two directions: backwards 
towards the former life, and forwards towards the next. 


Purva Bhddrapada is a serious star concerned with significant personal 
transformation. 


Two Dragons 

Another similarity between the two Bhadrapada stars is their deity; both of whom are 
dragons of destruction.[39] The first star in the pair, Piva Bhadrapada, belongs to the 
fire dragon Ajaikapat. The second, Uttara Bhadrapada, belongs to the water dragon 
Ahirbudhnya. When Ajaikapat is mentioned in the Veda, he is almost always mentioned 
along with Ahirbudhnya. The later tales of the Purana[40] treat the two as brothers, 
describing them both as sons of ViSvakarma. 


“Ajaikapat” — The Supernatural Serpent 
It is not easy to conclusively translate the word ajaikapat. It is a compound with three 
parts: aja+eka+ pada. 


Aja means supernatural - without normal birth. 
Eka means one. 
Pada means foot, trail, path. 


There are many ways to meaningfully combine these three concepts. The most 
straightforward way I can think of is, “Supernatural Serpent.” A serpent is ekapad 
because it leaves a single trail as its footprint. A supernatural serpent is a Naga, or 
“dragon.” 


The Naga reign in the very wealthy underworld and have control over precious metals 
and gems. Mahabharata (Udyoga 114.4) therefore describes Ajaikapat as a lord of the 
Earth’s gold. 


Through Purva Bhddrapada, Ajaikapat empowers humans to acquire and 
accumulate wealth. 


Another important way to translate ajaikapdt is as the “single path to transcendence.” 
This resonates loud and clear with Pirva Bhadrapada’s symbols, such as the hearse — 
which takes a person on the blessed trail between one life and the next. 


By inclining human beings towards the path to the hereafter, Purva 
Bhadrapada makes us more critical and pessimistic towards what is in the 
here and now. 


There are at least two other notable ways to translate ajaikapat, both of which have to do 
with storms and both of which take the aja component with an alternate meaning of one 
who goes wherever he likes. Because of this meaning, aja can refer to mountain-goats and 
the drivers of vehicles. 


“One-footed goat.” This is a poetic term for lightning, since lightning goes 
anywhere it likes (like a goat amongst the high mountains) without ordinary legs. 


“One-legged driver.” This is a poetic reference to storms, whose driving 
winds move through the sky without conventional legs The Veda describes 
Ajaikapat as a deity accompanied by floods, storms, and lightning. Taitteriya 
Brahmana (3.1.2) describes Ajaikapat as a form or companion of the fiery Sun. 
The heat of the fiery sun evaporates the waters of the ocean, which then creates 
storms, lightning, rain and floods. Indeed, in Rg Veda (10.65.13), Ajaikapat is 


described as the atmosphere and clouds, which “hold up the sky.” 


Storms are destructive forces controlled by the howling gods of destruction. Thus, the 
later Puranic tales[41] classify him (and his brother Ahirbudhnya) as one of the eleven 
destructive gods called Rudra. 


The destructive force of Ajaikapat is not to be overlooked when considering 
the nature of his star, Purva Bhadrapad4a. After all, a hearse carries a corpse 
to its final destruction, usually (at least in Vedic times) to be cremated in fire. 


Although dangerous and destructive, storms are an important part of nature’s cycle. They 
enable the ecosystem to thrive and replenish itself. 


Reincarnation (renewal through death) is therefore a theme of the two 
Bhddrapada stars. The first, Purva Bhadrapada suggests the “front” of the 
hearse: the beginning of the process of reincarnation: the attempt to cut off 
attachments to the life one must leave behind. 


The Depths ~ 


he ui 


Uttara Bhadrapada 
=o i % ai , 


a 
Andromedae) 


Uttara Bhadrapada is the second in the Bhadrapada pair. Like the first, it is about 
“auspicious steps” - the path from this life to the next. Like the first, it deals with the 
theme of reincarnation and transformation, but where the previous Bhadrapada 
approaches the theme in a difficult manner (the early steps on the “auspicious path”, 
wherein we must accept destruction and let go of our previous identities) the second star 
in the pair, Uttara Bhadrapada, has a more pleasant angle because it represents the later 
steps on the “auspicious path”, during which we have already made peace with the loss 
and destruction of our old situation and are ready to embrace the transformation to our 
new state. 


Both Bhadrapadas are ruled by gods of destruction (Rudras) in the form of dragons 
(Nagas). The dragon of Pirva Bhadrapada is surrounded by fire, a painful element. The 
dragon of Uttara Bhadrapada, on the other hand, is surrounded by water, a soothing 


element. 


Uttara Bhadrapad4, like its twin, inclines human beings towards a 
transcendent and transformational path, but with more calm and less scorn 
compared to its predecessor. 


Being the star of a dragon, Uttara Bhadrapada does incline humanity towards 
wealth. But the decidedly transformational or even “spiritual” nature of 
Uttara Bhadrapada allows us to conceive of wealth as something more than 
just a financial entity. Much more than its predecessor, Uttara Bhadrapada 
imparts generosity with wealth and an optimistic vision for the future. 


Dragon of the Deep 
The name Ahirbudhnya is a compound of two roots, ahi+budhnya. 


Ahi refers to the sky[42] 
Budhnya means bound to the root. 


In this case the “sky” refers to the entire cosmos. At the root of this cosmic sky is a 
powerful Naga who holds the entire thing in place: Ahirbudhnya. In later tales 
Ahirbudhnya is more commonly referred to as Ananta Sesa, about whom we first learned 
in the chapter on Aslesa. I recommend rereading that chapter’s section on Ananta Sesa, 
particularly paying attention to the spiritual themes this divinity brings to Uttara 
Bhadrapada. 


Since the lower half of the cosmos is thought to contain a type of cosmic “ocean”, and 
since Ahirbudhnya is at the very root of the cosmos, he dwells at the bottom of this ocean. 
Thus we can refer to him as “the dragon of the deep.” 


Uttara Bhadrapada imparts a love for water, and all the classical qualities of 
the Water element: fertility, beauty, quietude, calm, introspection, and even a 
loneliness or sense of being separate and private from the world. 


Ahirbudhnya is an auspicious dragon, but a dragon nonetheless. So... 


Anger, aggression and envy sometimes manifest through Uttara Bhadrapada, 
but the watery environs and spiritual temperament of Ahirbudhnya tends to 
make such things short lived and manageable. 


Abundance ~ Revati 


ae 


Name 
Meaning | Generous prosperity 


Main Stars 


The word revati, a form of the root rd, means: “She who increases prosperity, success, 
fortune, wealth, and abundance.” Raati is also the name of SrBalarama’s wife. 
Balarama is an avatara of Visn who plays the role of Krars elder brother. 


Pusds the deity of this nakstra. A synonym of revati, the word pusan means: “One who 
nourishes, bringing growth and abundance.”[43] 


Pusds one of the most important Vedic gods, whose role became much less significant 
as Indian religion moved away from ritual materialism towards philosophy and 
spirituality. 


Prosperous 

Pusan tends domestic animals, the agrariar-equivalent of money. Rg (6.55.2) therefore 
describes Ptisan as being fantastically wealthy. Rg (6.55.4) describes him driving herds 
of goats. Rg (6.53.9) describes him herding cows who produce bliss and prosperity. Rg 
(6.54.5) describes him protecting domestic animals like cows and horses. 


Revati inspires human beings to attain prosperity and wealth. 


Gentle & Loving 


Protection of animals inspires gentility and compassion. Not surprisingly, then, Rg 
(6.56.1-2) says that Pusan enjoys vegetarian foods as much as Indra enjoys drinking soma. 
He is especially fond of a milk-curd and rice-meal mixture. From his vegetarian 
preference, we can understand that he is a gentle and kind deity. Indeed he is described as 
having “no teeth” (no “bite.”). 


Rg (6.57.5) describes Piisan as being “generous with affection.” 


Revati inspires love, kindness, gentility and non-violence. It is therefore a 
prosperous influence on marriage and other loving relationships. 


Regarding how Piisan lost his teeth: According to Taittiriya Samhita, Pusan was in 
attendance at a ceremonial sacrifice to which Rudrawas uninvited Insulted, Rudra shot 
an arrow into the sacrificial offering just as Pisan was biting down on it. 


Bhagavata Purana (4.5) gives different details. It says the person holding the ceremony 
was Daksa, the father of Siva’s wife, a woman who had just committed suicide in 
contempt for her father’s harsh insults of her husband. Siva and his forces stormed the 
sacrifice, destroying everything. They cut off Daksa’s head and also punished other 
people who were implicated in the insults towards Siva. Piisan’s teeth were kicked out 
because he showed a sympathetic smile while Daksa insulted Siva. 


Thus Rudra’s Ardra and Piisan’s Revati are incompatible and quite different in nature. 
Generous 


In Rg (6.53), the second verse describes Pusan’s blessings as “liberal and free-handed.” 
The third says that Ptisan makes even the stingy become generous, and even the hard- 
hearted become compassionate. The fifth through eighth verses say that Piisan’s awl (an 
agrarian tool that can double as a spear or knife) destroys the hearts of those who are 
greedy and avaricious, and inclines even them to devotion and love. 

Revati inspires generosity, compassion and devotion. 
A Guide 
Pusan protects animals and humans from getting lost and falling to harm. In Rg (6.54) the 
first and second verses say that he sends guides to point out our objectives and show us 
the surest and straightest paths to them. 


The tenth verse says that Pusan blesses us to find whatever we have lost. 


Revati inspires skill in finding lost items, and finding our way without 
becoming lost. It also inspires humanity to find trustworthy practical, moral, 
and spiritual guides, “gurus.” 


Pusan is also sometimes addressed ina role similar to the Pitr: helping the deceased soul 
find its way to the next destination. 


Pusan and Visnu 

Like Visnu, Pusan is on occasion referred to as Indra’s supporter and brother. Pusan’s 
qualities of gentility, devotion, guidance and goodness are very consistent with the 
qualities possessed by Visnu. Some conjecture that Ptisan may be an early or alternate 
vision of Visnu; or, put another way, that the later conception of Visnu incorporated the 
earlier conception of Piisan. The similarity between the two, and the association of the 
Visnu-avatara Balarama with goddess Revati, sometimes generates a misconception that 
Visnu is the deity of Revati. The Vedamga Jyotisa, however, is explicit: Visnu is the god 
of Sravana, and Pisan the god of Revatt. 


Nonetheless, due to the similarity of character in Pisan and Visnu, Revati has an effect 
very similar to the effect she would have if Visnu were her deity. 
The Drum 


There is also a link between Dhanistha and Revatt, since they both share the same symbol: 
a drum. Both naksatra allow fortune to manifest — providing the background “beat matrix” 
upon which the “melodious decorations of life” can exist. 


Revati indicates fortune, and a good sense of rhythm. 


Interpretive Implications 
of the 27 Stars 


Now I will summarize the most important interpretive implications of each of the 27 
Vedic stars. After the Sanskrit name of each star, I will give a catchphrase-cum-translation 
that I feel encapsulates the nature of the star. Then I will give a list of several key words 
that are extremely relevant to the star. Finally I will give a paragraph explaining many of 
those keywords ina little more detail. 


Asvini ~ The Beautiful Stallion 

Health, medicine, beauty, enjoyment, swiftness, loyalty Asvini is the star of health, 
beauty, and speed. It inspires the science of medicine: surgery and curing of illness 
(especially blindness). It increases our appetite for enjoyment but also our 
appreciation of loyalty and good character. 


Bharani ~ Labor Pains 

Self-sacrifice, labor, effort, child-bearing Bharani represents difficulties on the path to 
prosperity. It is the “pain” that leads to “gain.” It empowers humanity with self- 
control and sobriety so that we can endure trials for the sake of producing something 
truly great. 


Krttika ~ The Sharp Blade 

Incision, insight, brilliance, subdivision, critique, sharpness Krttikd is “bright” — 
brilliant, intellectual, and quick to digest .It is a star of insight, incisiveness, and 
dissection. It is analytical and critical and therefore not favorable towards things 
requiring tender care. 


Rohini ~ The Blushing Bride 

Creativity, fertility, passion, beauty, inspiration, imagination Rohini is the star of fertility 
& creativity; two traits always accompanied by passion and beauty. It is a star of 
motivation and all manner of creative talents. It abounds in imagination & procreation. 
It has a short-lived but hot temper when frustrated. 


Mrgasirsa ~ The Quest 

The search for goals and paths; quests Mrgasirsd is a star of searching for the best goal, 
and the best path to it. It empowers humanity to seek and quest, driving the human 
animal to sniff out the paths of life in search of true happiness. 


Ardra ~ The Storm 


Storms, destruction, frustration, blockade, spirituality Ardra is the storm that we must 
weather so that our nature can once again become pure and clean. It represents all the 
things we must overcome before we can prosper. It allows us to destroy inauspicious 
things and forget what should be forgotten. Given spiritual direction, Ardra empowers 
us to destroy the false ego and enter blessed realms. 


Punarvasu ~ Repeating Patterns 


Repetition, pattern, cause within effect; good offspring; unity, wholeness Punarvasu is 
about things happening again; Things happening within other things, within 
themselves; in cycles; in repetition. It is a star of good offspring and non-linear 
cognition. It empowers humanity to work cooperatively, become unified, seek holistic 
and all-embracing understandings, and to embrace a principle of all-inclusive divine 
love. 


Pusya ~ The Highest Blossom 


Devotion, growth, flourishing, prosperity, morality, prayer, meditation Pusya enables us 
to commune with deeper principles. This strengthens morality and causes prosperity 
and victory. It encourages faith, and ultimately leads to selfless devotional intimacy 
with the divine. 


Aslesa ~ Serpentine Embrace 

Luxury, pleasures, embraces, clinging, loyalty, jealousy, cunning Aslesa empowers us 
embrace strongly, with deep and enduring emotion and desire. It inspires us to bear 
great responsibilities for the sake of those we love. It endows us with charisma, charms 
and mystique. It has a weakness towards deception and jealousy, but strength towards 
deep mysticism and true spirituality. 


Magha ~ Inherited Power 


Power, gifts, wealth, DNA, inherited traits, ancestors, past lives, afterlife, justice Magha 
bestows gifts “from our ancestors.” This literally indicates inheritance of power, 
career, fortune, and qualities (“DNA”). Such inheritance really comes as a result of 
efforts made in our previous births, so Magha also indicates powers, qualities and 
abilities carried over from past lives. 


Purva Phalguni ~ Romantic Enjoyment 

Romance, love, enjoyment, expertise, romantic divinity Purva Phalguni grants expertise 
and beauty, helping us enjoy a fulfilling and satisfying sensual and romantic life. It 
especially dissolves the distinction between material and spiritual, uniting the two 
through divine love. 


Uttara Phalguni ~ Vows of Friendship 
Friendship, matchmaking, agreements, vows Uttara Phalguni grants successful and 
enjoyable romance and love. It produces matchmakers and expert councilors in the arts 


of love and romance. It allows for successful resolution of arguments, and finding 
agreements, friendship and harmony. 


Hasta ~ Dexterity 
Dexterity, manipulation, hands; awareness, awakening, sunrise Hasta grants heightened 


awareness and dexterity, empowering us to manipulate tools and be physically agile. It 
makes us more observant and difficult to deceive and more capable of deceiving others. 


Citra ~ Multifaceted Brilliance 

Intellect, ingenuity, creativity; technology, detail Citra empowers humanity to 
comprehend multi-faceted designs, lay complex blueprints, and generate masterpieces 
and technological marvels. It is the star of architects, designers and engineers; and 
allows us to comprehend and give shape to many angles of a subject. 


Svati ~ Individuality 
Individuality, distinction, maverick, separatism 


Svati empowers us to be individuals capable of standing on our own and 
going against the norm if need be. It helps us clearly and confidently define 
“IT” and individualize ourselves. It can inspire equally to self-realization or 
self-absorption. 


Visakha ~ Obsession 
Decisive, dedicated, fixated, goal-oriented, undistracted 
Visakha grants the ability to stay on course and to focus sharply on attaining 


goals. It creates strong dedication to clear objectives and fosters the ability 
to achieve those goals by any means necessary. 


Anuradha ~ Devotion 


Devotion, friendship, love as law, faithfulness Anuradha grants deep devotion to friends 
and lovers. It makes our motivations more loving and selfless. It grants the ability to 
achieve objectives through good “people skills,” likeability and trustworthy 
dedication. 


Jyestha ~ Eminence 
Eminent, jealous of rivals, protected by destiny, desirous Jyestha empowers humans to 
become better than their peers, yet inclines us to be jealous of rivals. It grants us the 


ability to protect ourselves and ensure our victories, often by supernatural means. It 
inclines us to enjoy our power and eminence. 


Mila ~ Uprooting 

Roots, origins, lawlessness, destruction, spirituality Mula inspires humanity away from 
what is normal and accepted, towards what is hidden, deeper, more original and true. It 
is a star of lies and hidden things; and has the power to destroy them both to reveal the 
deepest truths. Mula empowers destruction and allows us to destroy all that is 
superficial and illusory on our quest for true origins, true roots. 


Purva Asadha ~ The Invincible 

Power, victory, appeal, popularity, strength, fertility, purity Purva Asadhd is a star of 
strength through purity. It confers strength and power to mankind, but in a pleasant 
manner, like the invincible yet appealing power of water. Being both appealing and 
powerful, Purva Asadhd creates leaders with significant popularity and mass appeal. 


Uttara Asadha ~ Complete Victory 
Unchallengeable, undefeatable, intense and all-consuming 


Uttara Asadha empowers human beings to give “110%” to their tasks, 
drawing all available power and pouring it into each of their endeavors. It is 
a star that helps create people who are undefeatable, even unchallengeable in 
their determination, strength, and intensity; and who can pull together many 
divergent resources and make them work for a common purpose. 


Sravana ~ Listening Carefully 
Sound, listening, learning 


Sravana is an excellent star for intelligence and education. Through it we 
become good listeners, speakers, and audio-smiths. Sravana inspires us to 
learn, ask intelligent questions, listen carefully to answers, and seek qualified 
teachers. It is one of the few stars that pleasantly turns us towards spiritual 
enlightenment. 


Dhanistha ~ Getting Practical 
Practicality, ideas given shape, plans set in motion, substance given form 


Dhanistha is a practical star, setting theories into practice and seeking 
tangible returns on ideas. It is too practical for things that require a lot of 
romance, sympathy, empathy and emotion. 


Satabhisaj ~ The Underworld 
The sky, west, underground, night, depths, equality, medicine 


Satabhisqj is the star of aeronautics, technology and western civilization. It is 
a profound and mysterious star promoting counter-culturalism and 
underground movements. It seeks liberal equality, and fair administration of 
justice, and is thus often a cause of revolutionary tendencies. It is also a star 
with special relevance to health and medicine. 


Purva Bhadrapada ~ Destruction 


Transformation, death and the afterlife, (the need for) detachment, hoarding / holding on, 
pessimism, destruction, storms Purva Bhadrapada is a serious star concerned with 
significant personal transformation. Inclining us towards personal transformation, it 
makes us more critical, pessimistic and destructive towards the here and now, and the 
wealth we are simultaneously inclined to accumulate in it. 


Uttara Bhadrapada ~ Depth 

Transformation, afterlife, various types of wealth, generosity, optimism, depth, intuition, 
emancipation Uttara Bhadrapada enables us to open our arms to transformation with 
an optimistic view of what we will become. It creates a love for water and imparts the 
traits of water, fertility, beauty, quietude, calm, introspection, depth and even a 
loneliness or sense of being separate and private from the world. Anger, aggression and 
envy are intense but short lived and manageable. 


Revati ~ Abundance 

Prosperity, love, gentility, generosity, guidance, spirituality Revati inspires human beings 
to attain true prosperity and wealth; through generosity, compassion, devotion and 
kindness. It blesses loving relationships, inclines us to non-violence, and helps us find 
our way forward without getting lost. It also grants a good sense of timing and rhythm. 


The 28" Star ~ Abhijit 


There is a “28" star,” Abhijit, which seems to be omitted from most considerations of 
Vedic Stars. There are various explanations offered for why it gets left out. Some say it 
fell out of favor when the Indians began embracing the 12 signs and wanted to create a 
symmetrical integration between their pre-existing star-groups and the newly adopted 
signs (27 and 12 are mathematically compatible. 28 and 12 are not). I personally think the 
best explanation becomes evident when we look at what Abhijit really is: Vega, which is 
at some points in history the actual North Star. Abhijit is so far north of the ecliptic that 
the Moon never remotely enters its vicinity. So I think it is rightfully left out of the vast 
majority of astrological considerations. 


Use of the Stars 


Certainly a reasonably experienced and educated astrologer can simply look at what 
planets occupy which stars in an individual birth chart, and by combining the symbolism 
of the planet with the symbolism of the star you can gain volumes of useful interpretive 
information. Include the ascendant. The Moon begs to be considered the most important of 
the planets in this regard, but that is probably only because the Moon’s star is often also 
the star association with the day the chart’s owner was born. 


That point leads us to other equally, if not more important ways to use the stars. Look 
outside the conventional modern birthchart and into the details found in the “Kala Jataka.” 
There, inquire into the naksatra of: The birthday (and the “emptied” naksatras thereof) 
The birth month The full moon of that birth month The muhtrta The nadi Jupiter’s year 
And learn to use the other information associated with naksatras, found in the kala jataka, 
such as waxing / waning, lunar phase, lunar day, yogas, etc. 


Acknowledgements 


Candogya Upanisad 6.14.2 says: 


acaryavan puruso veda “One who has an Acarya [guru] personifies the Vedas.” 


Commenting on this, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami says, “One who is in association with 
great acaryas, even if he is not educated or has never studied the Vedas, can become 
familiar with all the knowledge necessary for realization.” 


My Acaryadeva is Sri Srimad Dhanurdhara Swami. He introduced me to astrology in 
1992 and sparked my interest in it. Although he is not an astrologer himself, he is a true 
Acarya and therefore I was able to gain whatever astrological knowledge and expertise I 
have as a result of his divine blessings, without the need for any formal “astrological 
guru.” 


If he is pleased with this book, feeling that it is of benefit to humanity and that it glorifies 
the divine, then my effort is a success. Other yardsticks of success are inconsequential. 


I amalso pleased to acknowledge the kind help of another agency of Sri Guru, Dr. 
Satyanarayana das Babaji, who is among the foremost scholars of Sanskrit and Vedic 
literature. He very kindly agreed to check the Sanskrit in this book, and review and 
comment on the manuscript. His corrections and suggestions were of paramount 
importance to making this a truly authorized and substantial book. 


I am also deeply indebted to Neal Stephens. I took up the task of writing this book 
partially due to his eagerness to study the Vedic Naksatra. His voluntary, selfless service 
of editing and proofreading was extremely helpful. 


In my every endeavor I am always happily indebted to 


My loving wife, 
Syama Sakhi, And our dear children: Bhanu, 
Damien, 
Lunetta and 
Lalita. 


It appears that a man named Vic DiCara wrote this book. 

However, the Goddess Laks m1 actually wrote it, empowering his fingers to strike the 

keys. But the truth is that Goddess Sarasvati truly wrote the book, having the knowledge 

and learning that allowed the typing fingers to move. Yet, the final reality at the root of it 
all is that Govinda himself wrote the book — to reveal himself to you more clearly. 


| iL | For example, the earliest Vedas, like Rg and Atharva were written when the Pleiades rose with the Sun on the 
vernal equinox and identify the Pleiades as the “first” star. Puranas written much later identify B Arietis as the “first” star 
because the vernal equinox had drifted to B Arietis when those books were written. 


[2] For example, see Bhagavatam 12.2.27-32. 


[3] 3.9-10. 


[4] For explicit non-stellar tropical definition of the 12 signs see Visnu Purana 2.8.26-30, Bhagavata Purana 5.21.2-6, 
Surya Siddhanta 14.7-10, and even perhaps Rg 1.164.43. 

[5] The seven stars of the Big Dipper represent the seven sages. The six main stars of the Pleiades are their six 
divorced wives — unfortunate goddesses. The seventh wife, Arundhati remains near her husband Vasistha as the star 
Alcor very close to Mizar. 

[6] Manusmmrti chapter one and Vamana Purana chapter 43 use the metaphor of an “egg” within an ocean. Vedanta 
Sutra adds philosophical dimension to the tale. Brahma Samhita also adds details. The Bhagavata Purana gives 
context to them all in its 1.3, 2.4-5, and 3.8. 

LZ] Because Brahma was born asexually he is called Aja, “unborn” or “without conventional birth.” 


[8] Some say that Siva keeps the fifth skull as a bowl, others say that he threw it into space and it landed in Mrgasirsa. I 
tell the story in a little more detail in the chapter on Ardra. 
[9] In classical times Rohini coincided with a significant portion of Taurus. I feel this is why this type of hot temper is 


associated with Taurus in classical astrology, even though nothing about Taurus’ ruler (Venus), element (Earth), or mode 
(Fixed) lends itself much towards anger or hot tempers. 


[10] Rg 8.7.29 & 8.64.10-11 say it grew in “Sushoma, Arjikiya, etc.” and in “Sharanyavat” (which is probably the 
shore of a specific lake) and on the slopes of Mt. Majavat. It is said to have a long, grassy-colored stalk and a green 
brilliance (Rg 9.42.1 & 9.61.17). 


[11] This is similar to the famous “Juggernaut” deities of Orissa: Like Rohini, the golden sister, Subhadra, is protected on 
both sides by her brothers. On her right is Baladeva, bright like the sunlit day (similar to Agni). On her left is Jagannatha, 
dark like the moonlit night (similar to Soma). 


[12] Bhagavata Purana 3.12; Visnu Purana 1.7 & 8; Devi Bhagavat 7; Mahabharata Vana. 12. 


[13] For example: Buddha is often depicted with an umbrella of hooded snakes protecting him. Visnu is almost always 
depicted in this way. Siva is always adorned with serpents. 


| 14] The four types of Pitr who are forefathers of humans were created by Brahma’s sons, Bhrgu, Angiras, Pulastya, 
and Vasistha, respectively. The three types of Pitr who are forefathers of non-humans were created by Visnu, Brahma, 
and Atri, respectively. 


[15] The sraddha ceremony is still very popluar among Hindus, and is observed twice a year, during the waning moon of 
two months: ASsvina and Caitra. It also continues to have a strong influent in Buddhism, even as far as Japan. 


[16] Parasara says so in Visnu-Purana. Vyasa says so in Srimad Bhagavatam 1.3.28 


[1.7] In Mahabharata Virata Parva, Section 44 Arjuna says to his daughter in law: “I am known as Phalguna, my dear, 
because I was born in the snowy season on a day belonging to both Uttara- and Purva-Phalguni.“ 


[18] The Taittirlya-Brahmana says that the Milky Way is this smooth path. 


[19] Many attribute “magicians” to Hasta. Hasta indeed gives dexterity to utilize slight-of-hand, and the awareness to 
details that others miss amidst the smoke and mirrors. 


[20] The original name, Tvasta, can be used for either but in practice seems to always refer to Maya. Some accounts 

(Visnu Purana 1.15 and Kathasarit Sagara Kalambaka.8) describe Maya as the “son” of Visvakarma, indicating that the 
creator for the gods created the creator for the anti-gods. Besides Maya, another son of Visvakarma is Nala, a monkey 
who designed the bridge that spanned from India to Lanka, which Rama used to attack Ravana. 


An interesting contention is that Maya built great cities in what is now Latin America, founded the Mayan culture, and 
created their calendar. The classic Indian astronomy textbook, Siirya Siddhanta is said to be explained by the Sun god to 
Maya. 


[21] Brahma gave it in turn to Kuvera, the God of Wealth. Later, it was stolen from Kuvera by the powerful demon, 
Ravana, along with the golden city of Lanka (which was also designed by Visvakarma). 


[22] Mahabharata Karna.34.16 specifies that the ship was designed and built by Visvakarma. 
[23] For the fuller story, see the chapter on ASvini. 


[24] In the seminal Vedic version of this story, Vrtra represents storms and darkness and Indra uses a thunderbolt to 
bring light into the darkness and cause the clouds to bring forth nourishing rains. 


[25] The word svati also means sword, because a sword is a blade, and blades cut things to destroy homogeneity and 
create individualized divisions. 

[26] It can therefore be inferred that prior to the first breath the child has not established the fundaments of a bond to 
his or her new body and is still largely immersed in a trans-lifetime state of awareness. 

[27] As per the statement of Bhagavata Purana (1.1.1): “Brahma receives intelligence from Visnu.” 

[128] Arjuna is Indra’s own son. His mother is the human, Kunti. 

[29] H20 seperates into Hydrogen and Oxygen which are both highly flammable. 

[30] This line is the mantra recommended in Parashara Hora Shastra as a remedial meditation for Saturn! 

(31) See the chapter on Indra’s star, Jyestha, for a more detailed discussion on this point. 


[32] The difficulty occurred because there was no one suitable to fill the post of Indra, the king of heaven. So Visnu 
incarnated as Yajfia to personally take the post. 


[33] The root dhan means both “wealth” and “sound” — on the principle that those who have opulence become famous, 
well-known, praised, “heard.” 


[34] Yet another name: In Brhat-sarihita, Varaha Mihira says that Vasu-deva can be used as another name for 
Dhanistha, meaning “the star whose gods are the Vasu.” 


[35] The exact details of this list vary somewhat from source to source. 
[36] Bhisma acted as the “grandfather” of his brothers’ children’s children. He was not literally anyone’s grandfather. 
[37] This noose is yet another signification of Satabhisaj’s empty-circle symbol. 


[38] A later commentary on Yajur Veda (Satapatha Brahmana) expanded the number of Adityas to 12. This list is 
again slightly different from the classical list of 12 Adityas found in the Puranas. 


[39] The deities of both stars are Naga (dragons) and Rudra (destructive deities). 
[40] For example: Visnu Purana (1.15). 


[41] For example: Mahabharata (Adi 66.2) and Srimad Bhagavatam (6.6.17-18) [42] It is also sometimes used as an 
abbreviated address for Ahirbudhnya. English-Sanskrit dictionaries thus also translate it as “serpent,” etc. 


[43] It is easy to mix the deity “Piisan” with the star “Pusya.” There is an etymological link, and a similarity between 
the stars Revati and Pusya, but remember that Brhaspati is the deity of Pusya, and Pusan is the deity of Revati. 


