THREE HUNDRED 
IMPORTANT COMBINATIONS 


BANGALORE VENKATA RAMAN 
Edutor: The Astrological Magazine 


MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS 


PRIVATE LIMITED e DELHI 


Ninth Edition: Bangalore, 2983 
Tenth Edition: Delhi, 1991 
Reprint: Delhi, 1994 


© MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS PRIVATE LIMITED 
All Right Reserved 


ISBN: 81-208-0843-6 (Cloth) 
ISBN: 81-208-0850-9 (Paper) 


Also available at: 


MOTILAL BANARSIDASS 


41 U.A. Bungalow Road, Jawahar Nagar, Delhi 110 007 
120 Royspettah High Road, Mylapore, Madras 600 004 
16 St. Mark’s Road, Bangalore 560 001 
Ashok Rajpgth, Patna 800 004 
Chowk, Varanasi 221 001 


PRINTED IN INDIA 


BY JAINENDRA PRAKASH JAIN AT SHRI JAINENDRA PRESS, 
A-4S NARAINA, PHASE 1, NEW DELID 110 028 
AND PUBLISHED BY NARENDRA PRAKASH JAIN FOR 
MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS PVT. LTD., 
BUNGAL®W ROAD, DELHI 110 007 


PREFACE TO THE NINTH EDITION 


I have the pleasure to present herewith the ninth 
edition of THREE HUNDRED IMPORTANT COMBINATIONS. 
This new edition has been revised and at some places 
re-written. 

The ‘‘Appendix’’ on the much feared Kala Sarpa 
Yoga will no doubt enhance the value of the book. An 
alphabetical index of the Yogas, to facilitate easy refe- 
rence, will also be found to be highly useful. 

Thanks to the immense interest envinced by the edu- 
cated public in my humble writings on Astrology, the 
seventh edition, published in September 1978, was sold 
within a few months of its issue. Jamconfidentthat this 
edition will also be given the usual encouraging reception. 

I am thankful to my daughter, Gayatri Devi Raman 
for her assistance in thoroughly revising this edition, to 
my sons, B. Niranjan Babu and B. Satchidananda Babu 
for careful proof corrections and to Messrs. P.N. 
Kamat and G.K. Anantram of IBH Prakashana for 
bringing out this new edition attractively. 


Bangalore B. V. RAMAN 
25-7~1983 


PREFACE 


The importance of Astrology in the social life of man is 
manifold. Human needs and aspirations furnish a continuous 
motive power for astrological inquiry. Astrology has a definite 
relation to the several grades of urgency ioto which the needs 
of human being in society can be divided. Success in life de- 
pends to a large material prosperity or adversity. Yogas in 
astrological parlance tend to show the degree of wealth, fame, 
rank, position, adversity, ill-health and misfortunes a man is 
likely to enjoy in his present life as a sequel to his own actions 
in previous states of existence. In other words, the different 
specific planetary combinations show a summation of inherited 
physital and psychological tendencies which condition our 
present environment ; the extent to which we can offset the 
inherited tendencies by effort; the characteristics that will be 
dominant and those that will be recessive andso on and so forth. 
Strictly speaking, all yogas are combinations of planets but all 
combinations cannot be Yogas. Only specific combinations can 
be styled as Yogas. Inthis book, Ihave made an attempt to 
carefully select only such important combinations that could 
be raised to the dignity of Yogas and that could indicate certain 
definite physical or mental traits, or degree of wealth, fortune, 
or misfortune. To collect combinations at random is easy but to 
select notable ones illustrative of a variety of life events is not 
only difficult but even risky. 

U should call this book a research project in the sense the 
material used forms part of the vast scheme of investigations 
I have in view. Modern astrologers seem to have overlooked an 
exceptionally fertile field of investigation in their indifference 
tostudy of Yogas which forms, as it were, the essence of Indiad 


Predictive Astrology. Most modern writers are silent on the 
subject of the Yogas except perhaps for some odd remarks 


upon a few common Raja Yogas or Arishta Yogas. For this 


vi 


reason, there has been for several years a demand for a book 
devoted specially to the predictive significance of Yogas and 
the present work has been undertaken to meet this demand. 
Long back this want was supplied by my grandfather. Prof. 
B. Suryanarain Rao whose excellent book Satayogamanjari 
deals with some of the most important Yogas on the subject. 
But I felt that a more systematised account of all the impor- 
tant Yogas should be brought out so that, illustrated by a 
number of practical horoscopes, the work may stand as a foun- 
dation upon which future research may be developed. 

Therefore Three Hundred Important Combinations is inten- 
ded to provide a working knowledge of the Yogas which indi- 
cate specific horoscopic trends. The astrological mathematics 
required for this purpose is very elementary. Numerous 
examples especially designed to illustrate points arising in the 
elucidation of the Yogas have been inserted and as these are 
worked out fully, readers sHould have no difficulty in following 
the principles clearly. Points of a controversial nature have 
not been shelved or glossed over. They have been 
approached from the point of view of their practical appli- 
cability. 

All planetary combinations may be divided into two broad 
groups, viz., Yogas and Arishtas. Though by the word Yoga is 
meant a combination, in actual practice Yoga is always consi- 
dered to imply a fortunate combination. Arishtas generally deal 
with misfortunes though they are also included in the generic 
term Yoga. The Yogas may be Raja Yogas (political power), 
Dhana Yogas (combination for wealth) or Gnana Yogas (com- 
binations for real higher knowledge and spirituality). 

The subject of interpretation of Yogas is briefly dealt with 
in the first few pages of the book. This branch is to be special- 
ly studied by the student of astrology in as much as it enables 
him to evaluate the exact implication of a particular Yoga. 
Special Yogas, including what are called Nabhasa Yogas, have 
been dealt with, with suitable illustrations wherever neces- 
sary. The difficulty arising when two or more Yogas coincide 
such as would be the case in respect of say Asraya and Akriti 


vii 


Yogas (see page 102) have been suitably clarified with proper 
explanations. 

In a way, the latter part of the book is more important, for 
it deals with such outstanding combinations as Raja Yogas, 
Arishta Yogas and Neechabhanga Raja Yogas about which, of 
late so much fuss is being made by a section of astrological 
students. The last pages give a summary of the entire subject, 
matter. The example horoscope, with which the book is closed, 
should be of particular interest to readers, for it shows how, in 
the face of many Yogas existing in a particular case, only a 
few can operate. lt also demonstrates that in respect of certain 
Yogas, the indications become effective throughout life while 
in regard to certain other Yogas, the results can happen only 
during specific periods and not always. 

For such awork as this which largely rests upon the prin- 
ciples furnished by classical astrology no originality can be 
claimed. But I feel I can certainly claim credit for being the first 
to bring together all scattered information, present it systemati- 
cally, and prove its practical worth and utility. The truth of 
this becomes evident when it is remembered that this book 
carries nearly {50 practical illustrations most of them being 
gathered from actual lives. 

I have as my readers scholars, intellectuals, students and 
practitioners. Therefore, to meet such different tastes and angles 
presents difficult problems of authorship, especially that a 
book dealing with the practical aspect of astrology should not 
merely aim at an uncritical exposition of the subject-matter. 
The only way to gratify the readers and at the same time pre- 
serve the theme is to present the apparently dreary principles in 
a graduated form and give the book a simple readability by 
interspersing the difficult sections with remarks which will not 
only elucidate the difficult points but encourage the casual rea- 
der to take a more positive interest in the study of the subject. 

It is hoped thatthe exposition of Yogas presented in this 
book will stimulate readers to pursue the subject further. 


BANGALORE 
2ist July 1947. B. V. RAMAN. 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Preface - v 
Introduction — t 
Gencral Observations _— 2 
Strength of a Yoga — 3 
Interpretation of Yogas - 7 
1. Gajakesari Yoga — 13 
2. Sunapha Yoga -- 16 
3. Anapha Yoga — 19 
4. Dhurdhura Yoga _ 20 
$. Kemadruma Yoga _ 22 
6. Chandra Mangala Yoga _— 24 
7. Adhi Yoga _ 25 
8. Chatussagara Yoga = 28 
9. Vasumathi Yoga — 29 
10. Rajalakshana Yoga — 31 
11. Vanchanachorabheethi Yoga _ 32 
12. Sakata Yoga _ 34 
13. Amala Yoga _— 36 
14. Parvata Yoga -- 38 
15. Kahala Yoga ~ 39 
16. Vesi Yoga _ 40 
17. Vasi Yoga _ 42 
18. Obhayachari Yoga _ 42 
19. Hamsa Yoga _ 43 
20. Malavya Yoga _ 48 
21. Sasa Yoga _ 49 
22. Ruchaka Yoga — 5t 
23. Bhadsa Yoga _ 53 
24. Budha-Aditya Yoga _ +4 


25. Mahabhagya Yoga _— 55 


49, 


70. 


Pushkala Yoga 
Lakshmi Yoga 
Gauri Yoga 
Bharathi Yoga 
Chapa Yoga 
Sreenatha Yoga 


. to 43. Malika Yogas 


Sankha Yoga 
Bheri Yoga 
Mridanga Yoga 
Parijatha Yoga 
Gaja Yoga 
Kalanidhi Yoga 
Amsavatara Yoga 
Harihara Brahma Yoga 
Kusuma Yoga 
Matsya Yoga 
Kurma Yoga 
Devendra Yoga 
Makuta Yoga 
Chandika Yoga 
Jaya Yoga 

Vidyut Yoga 
Gandharva Yoga 
Siva Yoga 
Vishnu Yoga 
Brahma Yoga 
Indra Yoga 

Ravi Yoga 
Garuda Yoga 

Go Yoga 

Gola Yoga 
Thrilochana Yoga 
Kulavardhana Yoga 


71 to 102. Nabhasa Yogas 


103. 


Duryoga 


Page 


101 
101 
102 
127 


xi 


Page 


104. Daridra Yoga = 128 
105. Harsha Yoga _ 129 
106. Sarala Yoga —_ 129 
107. Vimala Yoga — 129 
108. Sarecra Soukhya Yoga — 130 
109. Dehapushti Yoga _ 130 
110. Dehakashta Yoga _ 131 
lll. Rogagrastha Yoga _ 13) 
112 & 113. Krisanga Yogas _ 132 
114 to 116. Dehasthoulya Yogas —_ 133 
117. Sada Sanchasa Yoga — 135 
118 to 122. Dhana Yogas _ 135 
123 to 128. Dhana Yogas (Contd.) — 140 
129. Bahudravyarjana Yoga _ 143 
130 to 132. Swaveeryaddhana Yogas _ 144 
133. Madhya Vayasi Dhana Yoga _ 146 
134. Anthya Vayasi Dhana Yoga - 147 
135. Balya Dhana Yoga _ 147 
136 & 137. Bhratrumooladdhanaprapti Yogas— 148 
138. Matrumooladdhana Yoga _ 149 
139. Putramooladdhana Yoga — 149 
140. Satrumooladdhana Yoga —_ 15} 
141. Kalatramooladdhana Yoga _ 151 
142. Amaranantha Dhana Yoga _— 1S] 
143. Ayatnadhanalabha Yoga _ 152 
144 to 153. Daridra Yogas — 153 
154 & 155. Yukthi Sainanwithavagmi Yogas — 154 
156. Parihasaka Yoga _ 155 
157. Asatyavadi Yoga — 157 
158. Jada Yoga — 157 
159. Bhaskara Yoga _ 158 
160. Marud Yoga — 159 
161. Saraswathi Yoga _ 160 
162. Budha Yoga _— 161 
163. Mooka Yoga _ 262 


164. Netranasa Yoga — 162 


xii 


165. Andha Yoga 

166 & 167. Sumukha Yogas 

168 & 169. Durmukha Yogas 

170. Bhojana Soukhya Yoga 

171. Annadana Yoga 

172. Parannabhojana Yoga 

173. Sraddhannabhuktha Yoga 
174. Sarpaganda Yoga 

175. Vakchalana Yoga 

176. Vishaprayoga Yoga 

177. Bhratruvriddhi Yoga 

178. Sodaranasa Yoga 

179. Ekabhagini Yoga 

180. Dwadasa Sabodara Yoga 

181. Sapthasankhya Sahodara Yoga 
182. Parakrama Yoga , 

183. Yuddha Praveena Yoga 

184. Yuddhatpoorvadridhachitta Yoga 
185. Yuddhatpaschaddrudha Yoga 
186. Satkathadisravana Yoga 

187. Uttama Griha Yoga 

188. Vichitra Saudha Prakara Yoga 
189 & 190. Ayatna Griha Prapta Yogas 
191 & 192. Grihanasa Yogas 

193 & 194. Bandhu Pujya Yogas 
195. Bandhubhisthyaktha Yoga 

196 & 197. Matrudeerghayur Yogas 
198 & 199. Matrunasa Yogas 

200. Matrugami Yoga 

201. Sahodareesangama Yoga 

202 to 204. Kapata Yogas 

205 & 206. Nishkapata Yogas 

207. Matru Satrutwa Yoga 

208. Matru Sneha Yoga 

209 & 210. Vahana Yogas 

211. Anapathya Yoga 


Page 
163 
164 
165 
165 
166 
167 
168 
168 
169 
169 
169 
171 
172 
173 
175 
175 
176 
{78 
179 
179 
180 
18! 
183 
184 
185 
186 
187 
188 
191 
192 
192 
194 
195 
195 
196 
197 


xiii 


212 to 215. Sarpasapa Yogas 

216. Pitrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 
217. Matrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 
218. Bhratrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 
219. Pretasapa Yoga 

220 & 221. Bahuputra Yogas 

222 & 223. Dattaputra Yogas 

224. Aputra Yoga 

225. Ekaputra Yoga 

226. Satputra Yoga 

227 & 228. Kalanirdesat Putra Yogas 
229 & 230. Kalanirdesat Putranasa Yogas 
231. Buddhimaturya Yoga 

232. Theevrabuddhi Yoga 

233. Buddhi Jada Yora 

234. Thrikalagnana Yoga 

235. Putra Sukha Yoga 

236. Jara Yoga 

237. Jarajaputra Yoga 

238. Bahu Stree Yoga 

239. Satkalatra Yoga 

240. Bhaga Chumbana Yoga 

241. Bhagya Yoga 

242. Jananatpurvam Pitru Marana Yoga 
243. Dhatrutwa Yoga 

244. Apakeerti Yoga 

245 to 263. Raja Yogas 

264. Galakarna Yoga 

265. Vsrana Yoga 

266. Sisnavyadhi Yoga 

267. Kalatrashanda Yoga 

268 & 269. Kushtaroga Yogas 

270. Kshaya Roga Yoga 

271. Bandhana Yoga 

272. Karascheda Yoga 

273. Sirachcheda Yoga 


xiv 


274. Durmarana Yoga 
275. Yuddhe Marana Yoga 
276 & 277. Sanghataka Marana Yogas 
278. Peenasaroga Yoga 
279. Pittaroga Yoga 
280. Vikalangapatni Yoga 
281. Putrakalatraheena Yoga 
282. Bharyasahavyabhichara Yoga 
283. Vamsacheda Yoga 
284. Guhyaroga Yoga 
285. Angaheena Yoga 
286. Swetakushta Yoga 
287. Pisacha Grastha Yoga 
288 & 289. Andha Yogas 
290. Vatharoga Yoga 
291 to 294. Matibhramana Yogas 
295. Khalawata Yoga 
296. Nishturabhashi Yoga 
297. Rajabhrashta Yoga 
298 & 299. Raja Yoga Bhangas 
300. Gohanta Yoga 
Summary 
Appendix I 
Appendix It 
Index 


CHAPTER I 
General (ntroduction 


THIS book is intended to place before my readers 
Three Hundred Important Planetary Combinations 
comprising a comprehensive list of human transac- 
tions including fortunes, misfortunes, death and 
various physical and mental worries and elations, 
financial troubles and successes and all other events 
connected with human life. Man wantsto know 
something of everything connected with his career 
and the lives of those who are dear and near to him. 
These three hundred combinations include a large 
variety of his life transactions and a previous know- 
ledge of these happenings will be of immense benefit 
to him so that he may not only take remedies to 
avert the evils indicated by the planets from time to 
time but also adjust his affairs where the remedies 
prove ineffectual. 

Human life falls under two grand divisions— 
Yogas and Arishtas, or fortunes and misfortunes. 
Yogas include success in every line—health, persona- 
lity, success in politics, financial gains, good educa- 
tion, mental strength, bodily health; good wife, duti- 
ful children, sympathetic friends and _ relations, 
righteous conduct and other sources of pleasure and 
enjoyment which generally go under the name of 
fortunes. 

Arishtas or misfortunes include all sorts and 
sources of sorrows, worries, miseries, troubles, dis- 


2 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


tractions, bodily and mental disturbances such as ill- 
health, physical and mental deformities, financial! 
losses, ugly and bad children, quarrelsome wife, 
hateful relations and friends, evil temper, sinful 
nature and other unpleasant sources in life which go 
under the name of evils or misfortunes. Therefore 
these three hundred combinations will be specially 
useful to astrological readers and students. I shall 
try and give the necessary explanations and notes 
where they are needed to make the meaning of the 
combinations clear. 


General Observations 

Jam dealing in this book with three hundred 
important yogas or special combinations bearing on 
the twelve houses which signify certain definite indi- 
cations in the horoscopes as different from the 
general combinations enunciated in astrological text- 
books. The word ‘yoga’ is rather difficult to define. 
Yoga means combination but in common parlance 
yoga means a certain definite or special combination 
which adds strength to the horoscope or removes 
the vitality from it. 

If you go through standard books on astrology 
you will find that each ascendant has certain planets 
disposed towards it as yogakarakas. In the treatment 
of special combinations in this book, we have nothing 
to do with such planets. Again the combination of 
trinal and quadrangular lords is supposed to give 
rise to Rajayoga. We are concerned with this combi- 
nation to the extent that it qualifies or modifies a 
certain special yoga. For example take the horoscope 


Strength of a Yoga 3 


Venus 
Mercury 


Kethu 


given herewith. The disposition of the Moon and 
Jupiter in kendras or quadrants has givenrise to 
Gajakesari Yoga. The Moon and Jupiter who have 
generated this yoga are lords of the 6th and the | 1th 
and consequently they are not as beneficial as they 
would have been were they Jords of the 4th and 9th. 
In other words, the evil due to ownership has modi- 
fied to some extent the strength of Gajakesari. What 
is the method of interpreting a yoga and how and 
when dothe results manifest or make themselves 
felt ? Let us try to answer these important questions. 


Strength of a Yoga 

A yoga is formed by more than one planet. The 
nature of a planet is of three types, viz., benefic, 
malefic and neutral. 

According to the natural classification benefics 
are Jupiter, Venus, well-associated Mercury and 
waxing Moon and malefics are the Sun, Mars, 
Saturn, evil-associated Mercury and waning Moon. 
But in this book our reference to malefics and 


4 Three Hundred Important Combinatrons 


benefics unless otherwise stated are in the sense of 
malefic lords and benefic lords. 

The benefics or benefic lords are (1) lord of 
Lagna, (2) lords of the 5th and 9th, and (3) lords of 
kendras or quadrants, when they are natural malefics. 
The malefics are (1) the lords of the 3rd, 6th and 
lith, and (2) lords of kendras when they are natural 
benefics. 

The lords of the 2nd and 12th may be termed 
neutral because they give good or bad results accor- 
ding to their other conjunctions. The 8th lord is 
a malefic according to Jathaka Chandrika but for all 
practical purposes he may be taken as a neutral. The 
above can be classified thus : 

Benefics. Lord of 1, lords of 5 and 9, and lords of 
4,7 and 10 if they are natural malefics. 

Malefics. Lords of 3, 6 and 11. Lords of 4, 7 and 10 
if they are natural benefics. 

Neutrals. Lords of 2, 8 and 12. 

Of course, the 8th lord is supposed tobe evil 
unless he be the Sun or the Moon. We shall avoid 
controversies and assume thatthe 8th lord is a 
neutral for the purpose of interpreting yogas. 

Here an observation has to be made. 

In the above list of benefics, malefics and neutrals 
we have completely omitted to take into account the 
influence due to a double lordship. Thus for Aqua- 
rius, Mars owning the !0th—a quadrant—is good. 
In addition to the 10th he owns the 3rd also which 
is bad. In other words, Mars a natural malefic be- 
coming a benefic lord by virtue of owning a kendra 
is ‘influenced’ by his ownership of the 3rd house. [t 


Benefics, Malefics and Neutrals $s 


will be seen that excepting the Sun and the Moon all 
the other planets own two houses each so that whether 
a planet is a benefic or malefic can be judged only 
when both the lordships are taken into account. The 
nature of a lord is influenced by two factors, viz., 
(1) the other lordship and (2) association. The other 
lordship varies with regard to different ascendants. 
When Pisces is Lagna, Mars owns the 2nd and 9th 
houses while he owns the Ist and 8th when Aries is 
Lagna. Thus the ‘Ascendant’ is of the utmost impor- 
tance while deciding the benefic and malefic lords. 

We shall now discuss the nature of the different 
planets. 

The Sun.—He is benefic as lord of 1, 4,7, 10, 5 
and 9 which is possible in regard to Leo, Taurus, 
Aquarius, Scorpio, Aries and Sagittarius. He is 
neutral as lord of 2, 12. and 8 which is possible for 
Cancer, Virgo and Capricorn. He is malefic as lord 
of 3, 6 and 1!, which is possible for Gemini, Pisces 
and Libra. 

The Moon.—Benefic as lord of 1, 5 and 9 which 
is possible for Cancer, Pisces and Scorpio. Neutral 
as lord of 2, 12 and 8 which is possible for Gemini, 
Leo and Sagittarius ; and malefic as lord of 3, 6, 1}, 
4,7 and 10 which is possible in regard to Taurus, 
Aquarius, Virgo, Aries, Capricorn and Libra. 

Mars.—He is benefic as a lord of 1 and 8 (Aries), 
2 and 7 (Libra), 2 and 9 (Pisces), 3 and 10 (Aqua- 
rius), 4 and 9 (Leo), 5 and 10 (Cancer), 5 and 12 
(Sagittarius), and 7 and 12 (Taurus). 

Here we have taken into account the ‘modified 
influence’ due to the second lordship. Thus if you 


6 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


take Sagittarius Mars is benefic as lord of a trine 5 
and neutral as lord of 12. But his trinal lordship is 
50 powerful as to overcome the 12th lordship so that 
he becomes a benefic. 

Mars is neutral as lord of | and 6 (Scorpio) and 
malefic as lord of 3 and 8 (Virgo), 4 and 11 (Capri- 
corn), and 6 and 11 (Gemini). 

Mercury.—Benefic as lord of 2 and 5 (Taurus), 9 
and 6 (Capricorn) and 9 and 12 (Libra): neutral as 
lord of 1 and 4 (Gemini), 1 and 10(Virgo), and 5 
and 8 (Aquarius); malefic as lord of 3 and 12 
(Cancer), 4 and 7 (Pisces), 7 and 10 (Sagittarius), 8 
and [1 (Scorpio), 2 and 11 (Leo), and 3 and 6 (Aries). 

Jupiter —Benefic as lord of 2 and 5 (Scorpio), 6 
and 9 (Cancer) and 9 afd 12 (Aries) ; neutral as tord 
of 1 and 4 (Sagittarius), 1 and 10 (Pisces), and 5 and 
8 (Leo); and malefic as lord of 2 and 11 (Aquarius), 
3 and 6 (Libra), 3 and [2 (Capricorn), 4 and 7 
(Virgo), 7 and 10 (Gemini), and 8 and ! 1 (Taurus). 

Venus.— Benefic as lord of | and 8 (Libra), 2 and 
9 (Virgo), 4 and 9 (Aquarius), 5 and 10 (Capricorn), 
and 5 and 12 (Gemini); mewtralas lord of 1 and 6 
(Taurus); and ma/efic as lord of 2 and 7 (Aries), 3 
and 8 (Pisces), 3 and 10(Leo), 4 and 11 (Cancer), 6 
and I1 (Sagittarius), and 7 and 12 (Scorpio). 

Saturn.— Benefic as lord of | and 2 (Capricorn), | 
and 12 (Aquarius), 4 and 5 (Libra), and 9 and 10 
(Taurus) ; neutral as lord of 3 and 4 (Scorpio), 5 and 
6 (Virgo), 6 and 7 (Leo), and 7 and & (Cancer); and 
maleficas lord of 2 and 3 (Sagittarius), 11 and 12 
(Pisces), 8 and 9 (Gemini), and 10 and 11 (Aries). 


Youu Interpretation be] 


With the aid of this schedule the benefic and 
malefic planets (do not confuse this with the good 
and evil planets according to natural classification) 
for any horoscope can be easily ascertained. 

In this example horoscope Lagna is Aquarius 
and the following are the benefics, neutrals and 
malefics. 

Benefics.—Sun (lord of 7), Mars (lord of 3 and 
10), Venus (lord of 4 and 9) and Saturn (lord of | 
and [2). 


Saturn 
Moon 


Jupiter 


Neutrals.—Mercury (lord of 5 and 8). 
Malefics.— Moon (lord of 6) and Jupiter (lord of 


2 and }1). 


{oterpretation of Yogas 


Before attempting to interpret yogas properly the 
strengths of the various planets have to be noted. 
There are two methods of ascertaining the strengths 
which J shall name as the ‘approximate’ and the 
‘accurate’. The accurate method is the one described 
in my Graha and Bhayva Balas which enables one to 


8 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


calculate the six sources of strength and weakness of 
planets. The majority of readers will probably find 
it difficult to work out the shadbalas so that for pur- 
poses of interpreting yogas they can rely on the 
‘approximate’ method. This consists in ascertaining 
the Saptavargaja bala which has been fully described 
in my Grahaand Bhava Balas and which I do not 
propose to discuss here. It must be specially noted 
that one should resort to this ‘approximate’ method 
only when he is quite unable to apply the ‘accurate’ 
method. Saptavargaja bala means the strength a 
planet gets by virtue of its disposition in a friendly, 
neutral or inimical Rasi, Hora, Drekkana, Sapthamsa, 
Navamsa, Dwadasamsa and Thrimsamsa. An objec- 
tion may be raised that in case a planet is strongly 
disposed according to the ‘approximate method’ but 
powerless according to shadbala method, which 
should be accepted? The answer is, always give prefe- 
rence to shadbala method. We call such strengths of 
planets as ‘inherent strength’. The next step is to 
ascertain what may be called the residential strength 
which reveals the percentage of results a planet is 
capable of giving by vertue of occupation of a house. 
This requires the determination of Bhavas (house 
longitudes), Bhava sandhis (junctional points) and 
the lengths of Bhavas. All the processes involved in 
ascertaining these details are given in my Manual of 
Hindu Astrology. Thus we require the following 
details for purposes of interpreting yogas: 

1. The good and evil lords in a horoscope. 

2. The inherent strengths of planets. 

3. The residential strengths of planets. 


Yoga Interpretation g 


A yoga is formed by at least two planets. Ascer- 
tain whether the planets forming a yoga are benefic 
lords or malefic lords. If benefic, they get one positive 
unit of strength ; if malefic. assign a negative unit of 
strength. Ascertain if the two planets causing the 
yoga are in association with or aspected by other 
benefic and malefic lords. Assign one positive unit 
for benefic aspect* or association and a negative 
unit for the association or aspect of a malefic. See 
also if the yogakarakas are in exaltation or debili- 
tation, in friendly or inimical houses and assign posi- 
tive and negative units for the same. Summarising :— 
positive units of strength are contributed thus: 

(a) lf Yogakaraka is a benefic lord... 1 unit 

(6) Yogakaraka withabeneficlord . I , 

(c) Yogakaraka receiving the aspect 

ofabeneficlord . I ,, 

(2) Yogakaraka in exaltation or 


friendly sign ... 1 ,, 
And negative units of strength are contributed thus : 
(a) If Yogakaraka isa maleficlord ... 1 unit 
(b) Yogakaraka with a malefic lord 1 , 
(c) Yogakaraka receiving the aspect 
of amalefic lord ... [ ,, 
(d@) Yogakaraka in debilitation or 
inimical sign .. I ,, 


If the positive units predominate, the yogakaraka 
will confer predominantly beneficial results in respect 
of a beneficial yoga ; and no evil results will be given 
by him in regard to a_ beneficial yoga if the negative 


7 i, 4 and 3 aspects may also be taken into account. 


10 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


units predominate. Out of the two planets causing a 
yoga, the planet whose inherent strength is more 
will fulfilthe larger part of the indications of the 
yoga in his Dasa while the planet whose shadbala 
strength is less will fulfil his part as a sub-lord toa 
lesser extent. The nature of the results of the yoga 
corresponds to the nature of the house in which the 
yoga occurs or to which the yoga has reference and 
the extent of the results depends upon the residen- 
tial strength of the yogakarakas. The above method 
of interpretation has been developed and applied by 
me, the germ of the method, having been taken from 
standard astrological works. I shal! illustrate the 
above with a suitable example. 

Chart No. I.— Born on 8-8-1912 at7-35pm (1ST.} Lat 


13° N., Long. 77° 34 E 
Satum | Venus 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter Mais 


Jupiter 


Inherent strengths Residential strengths 


Sup 6.2 Sun 26 Per cent 
Moon 8.9 Moon 40 Per cent 
Mars 6.4 Mars 31 Per cent 
Mercury 6.3 Mercury 8@ Per cent 


Jupiter 6.9 Jupiter 90 Per cent 


Yoga Interpretation ul 


Inherent strengths Residential strengths 
Venus 5.0 Venus 37 Per ceat 
Saturn = 6.8 Saturp 95 Per cent 


Benefics ana Malefics— As Aquarius or Kumbha 
is Lagna the benefics are Venus, the Sun, Saturn and 
Mars; Mercury is neutral; and malefics are Jupiter 
and the Moon. Gajakesari Yoga is formed in the 
above horoscope by the disposition of the Moon and 
Jupiter in mutual kendras. 

Yogakarakas.—The planets causing the Gaja- 
kesari are the Moon and Jupiter. 


The Moon is a malefic ford - | unit 
The Moon is associated with Saturn, 
abeneficlord ... + | ,, 
The Moon is exalted pS ye 
The Moon’s aspect strength SE 
Total .. + 4 unit 
Jupiter is a malefic lord . 7 2 unit 
Jupiter occupies a friendly sign nA 4, 


Jupiter is aspected by Saturn 

a beneficlord ... + | ,, 
Aspected by Mars a benefic ‘ord 

and others* uw + 1}, 


Total . + 2} units 


Thus the Moon is benefic and Jupiter is more 
benefic. The Moon’s shadbala strength is greater 
than that of Jupiter. Hence the Moon should fulfil 
the larger part of the yoga pertaining to the 4th 
house while Jupiter gives the results pertaining to 


12 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


the 10th house. The native cannot enjoy the Moon’s 
Dasa and hence the Moon can produce the results 
of the yoga only as sub-lord and that too to the ex- 
tent of only 40%. Jupiter on the other hand can give 
90% of the results due by him in reference to the 
10th house and gives good results of the 2nd and 
1}th houses. 

Therefore : 

(1) The yoga will be enjoyed throughout 
Jupiter’s Dasa subject tothe influences of 
sub-lords. 

(2) The Moon’s Bhukthi in Jupiter’s Dasa 
would have been excellent so far as this 
particular yoga is concerned but as the 
Moon can give only 40% of the results of 
the 4th house, much importance need not 
be attached. 

(3) During the Moon’s sub-period in all Dasas 
the yoga will manifest to a small proportion. 

(4) During Jupiter’s Bhukthi in all Dasas the 
yoga will be felt to a fairly good proportion, 
subject of course to the disposition of the 
other major lords under whom Jupiter acts 
as sub-lord. 

The method suggested above should be studied 
and applied very carefully. It has been offered with 
a view to enabling the readers to make further in- 
vestigations. By an extension of the same principle 
it will no doubt be possible to interpret any kind of 
yoga. 

In giving the combinations below no particular 
order has been followed but only such yogas (several 


Gajakesari Yoga 13 


of which are indeed rare) have been included which 
are to be met with in the generality of horoscopes 
and which can be easily deciphered by the astrologi- 
cal students. 


1. Gajakesari Yoga 


Definition.—If Jupiter is ina kendra from the 
Moon the combination goes under the name Gaja- 
kesari. 

Results—Many relations, polite and generous, 
builder of villages and towns or magistrate over 
them; will have a lasting reputation even long after 
death. 

Remarks.—Here as well as elsewhere great diffe- 
rence in the enjoyment of results should be pro- 
nounced. The original writers say that the person 
born in this yoga will build villages and towns. A 
literal interpretation of the results leads one nowhere. 
They have to be adapted to suit modern conditions 
and climes. One born in this yoga may become a 
member of Municipality and engineer or if the yoga 
is really powerful, a mayor. The results ascribed to a 
yoga are subject to qualification or modification 
according as the yogakarakas are strong or weak. 
There are magistrates from the village to the district 
with different powers. Froma builder of a small 
shrine or choultry to the builder of a large and rich 
temple there is much dilference. Combinations are 
given butthe results of the same conjunction will 


14 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


vary with the strength of the planets, bhavas and the 
constellations. J would give here two typical horos- 
copes illustrative of the different variations in Gaja- 
kesari. 


Chart No. 2.—Born on 13-8-1894, at 2-30 pm (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 23° N. ; Long. 75° E 


Kethu 


NAVAMSA 


Mercury 
Moon Moon Rahu 


Balance of Venus Dasa at birth: years 2-4-24, 


Chart No 3.— Born on 9-8-1911, at 6-7 am. (1 S.T.) Lat. 
29 1° N.. Long, 77° 4t° Ey 


Rahu 


Kethu 


Jupiter 
iets se Mars | Mercury 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 8-8-2]. 


Gajakesari Yoga 15 


Above are given two charts—illustrative of Gaja- 
kesari Yoga. 

Chart No. 2.—Yogakarakas are Jupiter and the 
Moon. Lagna is Scorpio, hence benefic lords are the 
Moon, the Sun and Jupiter. Malefics are Mercury 
and Venus. Neutrals are Mars and Saturn. 


Moon 
(a) The Moon is a benefic lord 1 unit 
(b) The Moon occupies a friendly sign 1 ,, 


(c) The Moon’s aspect strength gy, 
(2) The Moon is not associated 0, 
Total 28 units 


JUPITER 


(a) Jupiter is a benefic lord | 
(6) Jupiter has no association 0 
(c) Jupiter’s aspect strength a ae 
(d) Jupiter is in a neutral sign 2 


Total 22 units 


Both the Moon and Jupiter are beneficially dis- 
posed and as Jupiter gets more units he will fulfil 
the larger part of the blessings of the yoga. As the 
native enjoys Venus Dasa at birth (about 2 years) the 
Moon in his Dasa (8 to 18 age) gives riseto the 
results of the yoga to some extent while the larger 
part of it (particularly regarding finance and fortune) 
will be realised in Jupiter’s Dasa to begin from the 
43rd year. The extent of the results depends upon 
the residential strength. 

Chart No. 3—The ascendant is Cancer. There- 
fore benefics are Mars and Jupiter: malefics are 


6 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Venus and Mercury; and neutrals are the Sun, the 
Moon and Saturn. 


THE Moon 

(a) The Moon is a neutral $ unit 
(b) The Moon is not associated fe Ores 
(c) The Moon’s aspect strength Hie 2 oy 
(d) The Moon isinenemy’s house .. —! ,, 

Total 3 unit 

JUPITER 

(a) Jupiter is a benefic og 1 unit 
(6) Jupiter is with Kethu —I ,, 
(c) Jupiter’s aspect strength ae A 3, 
(a) Jupiter is in an unfriendly sign . —1 ,, 


Total 4 unit 


Jupiter and the Moon are feebly benefic. The 
Moon will give rise toa larger part of the yoga 
results than Jupiter. The Moon can fulfil his part of 
the results as major lord and sub-lord particularly 
in Jupiter’s Dasa. The yoga is practically neutralised 
if the positive and negative units of strength obtained 
by both the planets are equal. 


2. Sunapha Yoga 


Definition. {f there are planets (excepting the 
Sun) in the second house from the Moon, Sunapha 
is caused. 

Results.—Self-earned property. king, ruler or his 
equal, intelligent, wealthy and good reputation. 


Sunapha Yoga 17 


Remarks.—The Moon plays a very large part in 
this as wellas in the following two yogas. The 
second house must be occupied by planets excepting 
the Sun. The second may be occupied by Mars, 
Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn either singly or 
collectively. Again the nature of the yoga depends 
toa large extent upon the nature of the lord or lords 
occupying the second. Thus take Taurus as the 
Moon’s Rasi and Mercury, Jupiter and Venus being 
placed in Gemini. This is a powerful Sunapha Yoga 
capable of giving rise to much wealth. The intensity 
of the yoga will be heightened if Lagna happens to 
be Leo as in this case the yoga will have reference 
to the 10th and 11th houses. As usual the results will 
find expression in the Dasas and Bhukthis of the 
planets responsible for causing the yoga. 

Chart No. 4 is a peculiar horoscope. Note the 
concentration of five planets in the 2nd from the 
Moon causing a Sunapha Yoga. The yoga is practi- 
cally defunct because all the evil forces have been 
focussed on it. The Sun is in debility with Kethu 
aspected by Saturn and Rahu. The yoga has pro- 
duced no results and the native is a non-entity. 
Compare this horoscope with Chart No.5, where 
Sunapha is present as Venus occupies the second 
from the Moon. Venusis a yogakaraka from the 
Moon and his having caused Sunapha has fortified 
the financial position of the native. Note that 
Sunapha has much ififluence on the financial pros- 
perity or adversity of a person. 


2 


18 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 4.—Born on 31-10-1910 at 1-21-13 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N.; Long. 77°. 34’. E. 


Balance of Mars Dasa at birth : years 4-7-10. 


Chart No. §.— Born on 28-5-1903 at 1-19 a.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 9° N.; Long. 77° 42' E. 


Pern Jupiter 


Lagna 
1 $5 Satum 


Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Moon 
Mercury 


Balance of Mars Dasa at birth : years 5-3-25. 


3. Anapha Yoga 


Definition.—lf there are planets in the 12th from 
the Moon, Anapha Yoga is formed. 

Results.—Well-formed organs, mejestic appea- 
tance, good reputation, polite, generous, self-respect, 
fond of dress and sense pleasures. In later life, renun- 
ciation and austerity. 

Remarks.—In Anapha also the Sun is not taken 
into account. The remarks made for Sunapha apply 
to this also with slight variation. 


Chart No. 6.—Born on 20-8-1902 at 11-33 am, Lat 9° 58 
N. ; Long. 78° 10° E. 


Mars 
Lagna 
Jupiter 


Kethu Kethu Sun 


Moon 
RAS) NAVAMSA 
Jupiter | 
Saturn | 4307 
Lagna 
Rahu 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth,: years 3-7-22. 
The Anapha is caused by the presence of Jupiter 
and Saturn in the 12th from the Moon. The yoga is 
feebly present inasmuch as Jupiter is debilitated— 
though there is Neechabhanga because of Saturn’s 
disposition in a kendra from Lagna. Satum’s quota 
of the yoga will manifest in his Dasa. Note also the 


20 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


fact that the 12th has reference to moksha or spiri- 
tual emancipation so that the native would cultivate 
an outlook of detachment for worldly things in his 
later years. 


4. Dhurdhura Yoga 


Definition. If there are planets on either side of 
the Moon, the combination goes under the name of 
Dhurdhura. 

Results —The native is bountiful. He will be 
blessed with much wealth and conveyances. 

Remarks.—Whatever may be the results ascribed 
to different yogas, one important truth emerges, that 
is, the person gets money, power, fame and reputa- 
tion of varying gradations. This, of course, does not 
apply to strictly Parivraja Yogas. Many varieties of 
Sunapha, Anapha and Dhurdhura are formed by 
permutations and combinations of the five planets 
and their results should be particularly noted. If 
Mars is in the 2nd and Mercury isin the 12th a kind 
of Dhurdhura is formed. Similarly Mars in the 12th 
and Mercury in the 2nd gives rise to another kind 
and Jupiter in the 2nd and Mercury in the 12th gives 
rise to yet another type though all these go under the 
name of Dhurdhura. Each conjunction in_ these 
permutations produce different results. To give a 
simple illustration take Mars in the 2nd in Capricorn 
where he is exalted and Jupiter in the 12th in Scorpio 
in a friendly sign. Now take Jupiter in the 2nd 


Dhurdhura Yoga 2) 


(debilitated) and Mars in the 12th (in his own house). 
Would the results in both cases be the same? All 
these permutations must be carefully analysed. There 
will be thirty-one varieties of Sunapha, and an equal 
number of Anapha combinations and there are 
something like 180 varieties of Dhurdhura. For 
fuller details referto the English Translation of 
Brihat Jathaka by Prof. B. Suryanarain Rao. 

Chart No. 7-~—Born on 31- 7- 1910.at Gh. 32-15 after Stat- 
rise, Lat, 8°44’ N ; Long. 77° 44° E. 


Saturn | Meon lenys | Merc. Moos 
Rahu Mars 


- RAS! NAVAMSA 
Lagna 
4.987 


. 
fem | pow 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 6-3-23. 


In this horoscope the Dhurdhura Yoga formed is 
a typical one. The Moon is exalted in Taurus, Saturn 
isin the 12th and Venus is in the 2nd. Saturn is 
Neecha but there is Neechabhanga. From Chandra 
Saturn is a yogakaraka. The results of the yoga may 
find expression in a large measure in Sani Dasa 
particularly in Sukra Bhukthi. 


5. Kemadruma Yoga 


Definition —When there are no planets on both 
sides of the Moon, Kemadruma Yoga is formed. 

Results.—The person will be dirty, sorrowful, 
doing unrighteous deeds, poor, dependent, a rogue 
and a swindler. 

Remarks.—Some authors say that if planets are 
in a kendra from birth or from the Moon or if the 
Moon is in conjunction with a planet there is no 
Kemadruma. There are yet other authors who say 
that these yogas arise from kendras and navamsas 
but these observations are not generally acceptable. 
Varahamihira adds emphasis by saying that when 
persons born in royal families are subjected to such 
degradations much more of these unfortunate results 
must be predicted than in the case of persons born 
in ordinary families. Sorrows mean physical as well 
as mental. The word Neecha is used in the original 
and this refers to such acts as are prohibited by the 
religious, moral and social codes and are therefore 
held to be disgraceful. 

Chart No. 8 is a typical Kemadruma Y oga horos- 
cope. No planets are placed on either side of 
Chandra and no planets are to be found in kendras 
either from Lagna or from the Moon. 

In Chart No. 9 you will see that Kemadruma is 
present because the houses on either side of the 
Moon are vacant. But there is distinct cancellation 
of the Kemadruma because (a) the kendras from the 


Kemadruma Yoga 3 


Moon are occupied and (6) kendras from the Lagna 
are also occupied. 

Chart No. 8.—Born on 28-7-1896 at Gh. 10 after Sunrise. 
Lat. 13° N.; Long. 77° 34 E. 


Lagna | Moon 
Saturn Kethu 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Jupiter’s Dasa at birth: years 10-9-4. 


Chart No. 9.—Born on 26-2-1908 at 2-56 p.m. (L.M.T.) Lat 
18° 55° N.; Long. 72° 54° E. 


Venus 
Saturn 


Mercury 
Sun 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter 


Balance of Kethu Dasa at birth: years 6-3-15. 


6. Chandra Mangala Yoga 


Definition.—If_ Mars conjoins the Moon this 
yoga is formed. 

Results.—Earnings through unscrupulous means, 
a Seller of women, treating mother harshly and doing 
mischief to her and other relatives. 

Remarks.—The results given above are those 
ascribed by ancient writers. With due respect to the 
ancient masters in the science I have to observe that 
Chandra Mangala Yoga acts as a powerful factor in 
establishing one’s financial worth. The earnings will 
generally be through such occupations as toddy con- 
tract, beer shop, bar, etc. One has to cater to the 
baser needs of men, but when the Moon and Mars 
are well disposed, the earnings will be through 
other approved means. The yoga is said to arise by 
the association of Mars and the Moon but I feel that 
the yoga will also be formed if the Moon and Mars 
are in mutual aspect. Take the Moon in Taurus and 
Mars in Scorpio. Take the Moon in Cancer and 
Mars in Capricorn. These are excellent positions. 
The combination can be productive of good if it 
occurs in the 2nd, 9th, 10th or 11th house. 


Thandra Mangela Yoga 25 


Chart No. 10.— Born on 24-8-1890 at Gh. 37-10 after Sunrise. 
Lat. 13° N ; Long. 77°34’ E. 


Lagna Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Venus 
Saturn 


Rahu 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 7-3-24, 

In the above chart Chandra Mangala Yoga has 
taken place in Scorpio the 9th from Lagna. Mars is 
in his own house and the Moon is in debilitation. 
Because the Moon is waxing and Mars occupies his 
own sign, this yoga has received some vitality. The 
Dasa of Mars will be the best. 

When Chandra Mangala Yoga occurs in un- 
favourable houses, the native will have debased 
character. He may even sell his wife, his sister, etc., 
and make money out of unholy transactions. 


Jupiter 


7. Adhi Yoga 


Definition.—If benefics are situated in the 6th, 
7th and 8th from the Moon, the combination goes 
under the name of Adhi Yoga. 


26 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results —The person will be polite and trust- 
worthy, will have an enjoyable and happy life, 
surrounded by luxuries and affluence, will inflict 
defeats on his enemies, will be healthy and will live 
long. 

Remarks.—Adhi Yoga is one of the most impor- 
tant combinations. Astrological authorities classify 
this Adhi Yoga as Papadhi Yoga and Shubhadhi Yoga. 
But Varahamihira and that section of astrologers do 
not seem to favour such a classification. Bhattotpala, 
the erudite commentator of the writings of Varaha- 
mihira suggests the existence of Papadhi Yoga. 
Varahamihira distinctly observes Soumnyehi—implying 
clearly only the benefics, yiz., Mercury, Jupiter and 
Venus. All these benefics may be in the 6th, 7th or 
8th or intwo houses or all of them may be in any 
one of these houses. If there is one planet in full 
strength in any one of these signs, that person be- 
comes a leader. If there are two, he will be a minister 
and if there are three, he will occupy an eminent 
station in life. If all the three benefics, devoid of 
Strength, are in the three signs above mentioned, 
then also Adhi Yoga will be present but the influence 
it exerts would indeed be feeble. Adhi Yoga may be 
considered as a Raja Yoga or almost its equivalent. 

The Adhi Yoga is fairly powerful in Chart No. 
11, because Jupiter is exalted in the 7th and Mercury 
is in the 8th from the Moon. Jupiter’s Dasa was an 
excellent one as it enabled him to attain a good posi- 
tion in life. Note also the presence of Gajakesari as 
Jupiter is exalted in a kendra from the Moon. 
Jupiter has given rise to two yogas. 


Adhi Yoga 27 


Chart No. 11.— Born on 24-9-/87] at Gh. 7 after Sunrise. 
Lat. 10° N. ; Long. 77° 34° E. 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 8-8-7. 


Chart No 12. - Born on 7-8-1887 at 1-30pm. (U.M.T.) 
Lat, 1° N.; Long. 77° 2' E, 


Moon 


NAVAMSA 


Lagna | Jupiter | Venus||Jupit.| Lagoa | Mercury Bais 


Balance of‘ Jupiter’s Dasa at birth: year 0-7-6. 

In Chart No. 12. also the Adhi Yoga is fairly 
powerful, Venus and Jupiter occupying the 7th and 
8th from the Moon. Evidently Venus is more power- 
ful as, though he is Neecha, he isin a friendly 
Navamsa, while Jupiter is in an inimical house. The 


28 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


native’s Sukra Dasa had been brilliant and he was a 
leading figure in the Indian political scene. 


8. Chatussagara Yoga 


Definition.—Chatussagara Yoga is caused when 
all the kendras are occupied by planets. 

Results.—The person will earn good reputation, 
be an equal to a ruler, have a long and prosperous 
life, be blessed with good children and health and 
his name will travel to the confines of the four 
oceans. 

Remarks.—According ‘to the dictum Kendras- 
thatibalassuhuhu planets disposed in kendras add 
great strength to the horoscope. The four angles in 
a horoscope are like the four walls of a building. 


Chart No 13.—Born on 19-7-1816 at Gh. 153 after 
Sunrise. Lat. 17° N.; Long. 5h 10m. 20s. E. 


NAVAMSA 


Satum 
B.G.R. 


Kethu Lagna 
Jupiter 


Chatussagara Yoga 29 


The results should not be applied literally. 
Planets in the 10th kendra are more powerful than 
those in the 7th; those in the 7th are more powerful 
than those in the 4th. Those in the 4th, in tum, are 
more powerful than those in the Ist though Lagna 
Kendra is an exception. In ascribing results to the 
Dasas, the usual considerations such as a planet 
being a benefic or malefic lord, etc., have to be taken 
into account. Chatussagara Yoga contributes to 
considerable financial soundness and good name to 
the person irrespective of the fact whether or not 
one is a ruler. 

Chart No. 13 is the horoscope of the father of 
late Professor B. Suryanarain Rao. Note all the 
kendras are occupied. He was a man of great seif- 
respect, held a decent position as a Dewan, a great 
yogee and knew well eight languages. 


9. Vasumathi Yoga 


Definition.—If benefics occupy the upachayas 
(3, 6, 10 and 11) either from the ascendant or from 
the Moon, the combination goes under the name of 
Vasumathi Yoga. 

Results—The person will not be a dependent 


but will always command plenty of wealth. 
Remarks.—Vasumathi Yoga has more to do with 


wealth than with anything else. The Vasumathi re- 
sulting from the Lagna seems to have more influence 
than the one formed with reference to the Moon. By 


3% Three Hundred Important Combinations 


implication it also means that two benefics will give 
less wealth while only one benefic will give ordinary 
wealth. Ifthe upachayas happen to be exaltation 
places, the yoga becomes extremely powerful while 
the reverse holds good in case the upachayas happen 
to be debilitation places. When counted from the 
Moon all the four upachayas cannot be occupied 
because there will be only three benefics left. The 
authorities are silent on the matter and they simply 
say that the upachayas should be occupied. Varaha- 
mihira seems to go so far as to assert that predictions 
made according to ordinary combinations may some- 
times fail but the results predicted by Vastumathi 
Yoga do not fail. In ail such planetary combinations, 
one must be very careful in assessing the real 
strength of a yoga and see if its results have already 
been comprehended by some other more powerful 
yogas. It will be seen that purely Vastwnathi Yogas 
are a rare occurrence. You will find very few 
examples in which benefics are in all the upachayas. 
Even when benefics are in upachayas, they will be 
found to be associated with or aspected by malefics 
and due allowance must be made for such evil 
dispositions. 


Vasumathi Yoga 31 


Chart No, 14.—Born on 31st October 1915 at 7 p.m., 
Lat. 31° 27’ N.; Long. 74° 26' E. 


Jupiter 
Venus 


Lagna | Saturn 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 12-8-7. 


In Chart No. 14, the 3rd, 6th and 10th are occu- 
pied respectively by the Moon, Venus and Jupiter 
suggesting the presence of Vasumathi Yoga. Of the 
three planets that have caused the Yoga, Venus is 
the most powerful and hence most of the indications 
of the Yoga will fructify in Venus period or sub- 
periods. A purely beneficial Vasumathi Yoga cannot 
occur inasmuch as, in very rare instances, all the 
four upachayas can be occupied. 


10. Rajalakshana Yoga 


Definition.—Jupiter, Venus, Mercury and the 
Moon should be in Lagna or they should be placed 
in kendra. 


32 Thtee Hundred Important Combinations 


Results.—The native will possess an attractive 
appearance and he will be endowed with all the 
good qualities of high personages. 

Remarks.—The weak Moon or badly associated 
Mercury cannot make a person possess a beautiful 
appearance. However, the yoga seems to contribute 
Adrishta or luck in such a way that the person can 
command respect, dignity and regard. One need not 
necessarily be a king to inherit all the virtues, for all 
kings are not virtuous. Personalities or strokes of 
luck which many will not have and which many 
covet. 

Chart No. 1 (page 10) may be cited as an example 
for Rajalakshana inasmuch as Jupiter, Venus, Mer- 
cury and the Moon aré all in kendras. But owing to 
the association of the Moon with Saturn and the 
predominance of Saturnine influence both on the 
Moon and the Lagna except for the physical appea- 
rance, the blessings of this yoga have fuly manifested 
otherwise. 


11. Vanchana Chora Bheethi Yoga 


Definition. —The Lagna is occupied by a malefic 
with Gulika in a trine: or Gulika is associated with 
the lords of Kendras and Thrikonas; or the lord of 
Lagna is combined with Rahu, Saturn or Kethu. 

Results.—The native will always entertain feelings 
of suspicion towards others around him. He is afraid 
of being cheated, swindled and robbed. 


Vanchana Chora Bheethi Yoga Re] 


Remarks.—Here three sets of combinations can 
be noted. They are :— 

(a) The ascendant must have anevil planet 
with Gulika disposed in the 5th or 9th. 

(6) Gulika should be associated with the lords 
of 1, 4, 7, 10, 5 and 9. 

(c) Lord of Lagna should join Rahu or Saturn 
or Kethu. 


In all these cases, the person will not only have 
fears from cheats, rogues and thieves but he will also 
have huge material losses. The combinations pertain- 
ing to this Yoga are found in almost all horoscopes, 
so that we are all guilty of cheating and being 
cheated one another in some form or the other. It is 
a tragedy of our social life that a merchant minting 
millions at the cost of the poor is left scot-free while 
the poor, committing theft in the face of poverty and 
want, are booked by law. Cheating is practised in a 
variety of ways. Fertile brains find countless methods 
to cheat their associates. The merchants have various 
ways of cheating their clients. The lawyer is equally 
successful. The medical man commands many ways 
to defraud his patients. 

Gulika is considered the son of Saturn and his 
position isto be carefully fixed in the Zodiac. The 
Yoga given above refers to persons who will be the 
victims of fraud but the same combination can also 
be extended to apply to those who perpetrate the 
deeds. 


xu Three Hundred Important Combinations- 


Chart No. 15.—Born on 29-7-1909 ai Gh. /-15 after swmrise. 
Lat. 17° N.; Long. 77° E. 


Man Satum | Rahu | Saturn Venus 
Sun ‘ 
Merc. ||Moop | Rahu | 
Lagna 
it oe RASI — |—— NAVAMSA 
Jup. u 
Venus 
Moon Mars 
Mercury 
| Kethu bagns)) ea Jupiter 
( 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth : years 6-6-16. 
In Chart No. 15, you will see that lord of Lagna 
is Neecha and he is with Kethu aspected by Rahu. 
The Lagna is occupied by the Sun. The native is 
always afraid that he will be cheated and defrauded. 
Naturally he is nervous and extremely sensitive, 
miserly and very cautious. He adopts towards others 
the same suspicious behaviour, that he thinks others 
adopt towards him. This is a typical horoscope. 


12. Sakata Yoga 


Definition —The Moon in the 12th, 6th or 8th 
from Jupiter gives rise to Sakata Yoga. 

Results —The native loses fortune and may re- 
gain it. He will be ordinary and insignificant. He will 
suffer from poverty, privation and misery. He will 
be stubborn and hated by relatives. 


Sakata Yoga 35 


Remarks.—While the generality of astrological 
writers hold that Sakata Yoga is productive of evil 
results, there is difference of opinion as regards the 
definition of this Yoga. The great Parasara and 
Varahamihira say that when all the planets are in 
the Ist and 7th, Sakata is caused. Prof. Rao opines 
that this definition leaves room for doubt as to why 
it should be the 7th. On the contrary, the definition 
given ‘above appears more reasonable inasmuch as 
the Yoga is generated by the Moon occupying the 
three Dusthanas from the greatest benefic Jupiter 
thus obstructing the free flow of fortune; but it is 
also open to objection as will be seen from the 
following observations :-— 

{n the large number of horoscopes examined by 
me I have been able*to mark that Sakata Yoga has 
not really made the natives poor and wretched but 
often the degree of poverty and wretchedness has 
been nomiaal. { have awork entitled Sukranadi 
which says that one born in Sakata will have his 
fortyne obstructed now and then. The exact words 
used are “Sakata}ogajatasya Yogobhangam Pade- 
pade”. The periods of misfortune will accord with 
the times of transits in malefic Rasis, viz., 6th, Sth 
and 12th. In other words, every time the Moon tran- 
sits the 6th, 8th and 12th from the radical Jupiter, 
the effects of Sakata are realised. 

According to the definition given above, Sakata 
is caused by the Moon being placed in the 6th or 8th 
or 12th from Jupiter. When one planet is in the 8th 
from the other, naturally the other will be in the 6th. 


13. Amala Yoga 


Definition —The 10th from the Moon or Lagna 
should be occupied by a benefic planet. 

Results.—The person will achieve lasting fame 
and reputation. His character will be spotless and he 
will lead a prosperous life. 

Remarks.—As in interpreting every combination, 
due consideration should be given to the strength of 
the lord causing the Ama/g and the aspects and asso- 
ciations he receives. Some benefic planets must 
occupy the 10th from Lagna or the Moon to cause 
Amala. If no benefic is present, then Amala is not 
caused. But yet on the strength of the dictum “‘Udayat 
Indutovapi Yegrahadasamasthithaha Te sarve artha- 
pradagneya swa dasasu yatoditha’” which means 
that any planet in the 10th from Lagna or Chandra 
would give, during his Dasa, much wealth, a malefic 
also is not ruled out. Amala means pure and when 
the Yoga is present, prosperity and affluence will be 
achieved through fair means while a malefic, whilst 
giving wealth, may make the means questionable. 
After all, the end justifies the means according to 
some and, therefore, Amala makes one scrupulous 
as tothe means he employs for earning while a 
malefic in the 10th while no doubt good in its own 
way, aS causing wealth to come, would not make one 
famous or a man of character. 


Amala Yoga 37 


Chart No. 16.—Born on 12-2-1856 at 12-21 p.m. (L.M.T ) 
Lat. 18° N.; Long. 84° E. 


Sun 
Mercury 
Jupiter 


Balance of Venus Dasa at birth: years 6-11-3. 

In this chart, one can easily detect the presence of 
Amala because of the situation of Jupiter and Mer- 
cury in the 10th from Lagna. 


Chart No. £7.—Born on 7-9-1904 at 1-55 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 18°. 54° N ; Long. 62°. 46° E. 


Jupiter 
Kethu 


Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Lagna 


Saturn 
Saturn 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth : years 14-5-27. 


38 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Amalia is prominently marked by the presence of 
Venus and Mercury in the 19th from Lagna and 
Jupiter in the 10th from the Moon. The subject is a 
high civilian officer, confident, imaginative anda 
good judge of human nature. Venus as Karaka of 
Amala Yoga proved very beneficial to the native. 


14. Parvata Yoga 


Definition—Benefics being disposed in Kendras, 
the 6th and 8th houses should either be unoccupied 
or occupied by benefic planets. This combination 
goes under the name of Parvata Yoga. 

Results.—The person will become wealthy, pros- 
perous, liberal, charitable, humorous and head of a 
town or village. He will be passionate also. 

Remarks.—According tosome, Parvata is also 
caused ifthe lords of Lagna and the 12th are in 
mutual Kendras. Thus, three sets of combinations 
are comprehended :— 

(a) Benefics should be in Kendras, and 6th and 
8th must be free. 

(b) Benefics should be in Kendras, and 6th and 
8th should be occupied by benefics. 

(c) The lords of Lagna and the 12th should be 
in mutual Kendras. 

Strangely enough, for Kumbha Lagna, the defini- 
tion mentioned in item (c) supra cannot hold good 
inasmuch asthe lord of the 12th and the Lagna 
happen to be Saturn. Instead of the 6th and 8th 


Parvatha Yoga 39 


being occupied by benefics, it is better they are entirely 
free in which case, the native will be free from machi- 
nations of enemies and debts. In my humble opinion, 
Parvata Yoga cannot be so powerful as to minimise 
the strength of other important yogas. Its presence, 
no doubt, adds to making the person an entity within 
a limited circle. The Yoga does not seem to contri- 
bute much to political power. One may become a 
District Board member or a Municipal Commissioner. 
But it seems to have capacity enough to add financial 
stability. 


15. Kahala Yoga 


Definition.—Lords of the fourth and ninth houses 
should be in Kendras from each other and the lord 
of Lagna should be strongly disposed. 

Results.—The native will be stubborn, not well 
informed, daring, head of a small army and afew 
villages. 

Remarks.— No yogas should be interpreted verba- 
tim if the results are to hold good to modern hfe and 
conditions. An appropriate and intelligent interpreta- 
tion of Kahala Yoga should suggest that the person 
concerned will eke out his existence as a member of 
the army or police or in the capacity of a Collector 
or Tahsildar and the like. 

Kahala Yoga is also caused when the 4th lord is 
exalted or in his own house being conjoined with or 
aspected by the lord of the 10th. Both the definitions 


40 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


of Kahala Yoga mentioned above assume the strength 
of Lagna, the 4th and the 9th. For Kumbha Lagna 
Venus happens to be the lord of the 4th and 9th. 
Therefore, Kahala Yoga is applicable to Kumbha 
Lagna only accerding to the second definition, which 
means that Venus should be in Pisces or Taurus or 
Libra in conjunction with or aspected by Mars. 
Naturally, Venus in Pisces and Mars in Sagittarius 
will be an ideal Kahala Yoga. 

In Chart No. 1 lord of the 4th and 9th happens 
to be Venus. He is in Kendra and the lord of Lagna 
is in the 4th fairly strongly disposed. But Jupiter 
aspecting lord of Lagna takes away much of the evil 
aspect of the Yoga. 


16. Vesi Yoga 


Definition.—If planets other than the Moon 
occupy the 2nd from the Sun, Vesi Yoga is formed. 

Results.—The person will be fortunate, happy, 
virtuous, famous and aristocratic. 

Remarks.—Excepting the Moon and Rahu and 
Kethu, any other planet or planets may cause Vesi 
Yoga. If malefics occupy the second from the Sun, 
papavesi is caused while subhavesi is given rise to by 
the presence of benefic planets. The degree of the 
yoga todo good or bad depends to a large extent 
upon the Sun and the planets causing the Yoga. The 
results given above are for Subhavesi Yoga. Ob- 
viously quite the reverse holds good in case of papa- 


Vesi Yoga 4! 


vesi. If the Sun is exalted, Lagna being Cancer and 
the subhavesi is caused by the presence of Venus in 
Taurus and both the Sun and Venus are inherently 
strong, then in spite of the fact that both the Sun and 
Venus are natural enemies the Yoga becomes sup- 
remely powerful and almost all the good results 
attributed to it would find full play when the Dasa 
and Bhukthi of the two planets operate. Obviously, 
if more than one planet causes the Yoga, one of the 
planets being a malefic, say Saturn, the good influen- 
ces have to be sufficiently moderated. Thus it will be 
seen that proper interpretation of a Yoga is not a 
joke. It demands on the part of the astrologer great 
analytical powers and a thorough acquaintance with 
the technicalities of the subject. 

Chart No. 18.—Born on 8-8-1912 A.D. at 7-23 p.m. (L.M.T) 
Lat. 13° N. ; Long. 77° 34° E. 


Sat 
Rahu mPa Saturn | Venus 
——= 
Lagna Sun 
RAS! NAVAMSA 
Mars 
Merc. 4 | Li 
Venus 


Jupiter Jupiter | Mais 


Balance of Mars Dasa at birth : years 6-0-10. 


In Chart No. 18 Vesi Yoga is caused by the pre- 
sence of Mars, Mercury and Venus in the 2nd from 
the Sun, the Lagna being Aquarius. Out of the 


42 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Yogakarakas, Mars in the least powerful inasmuch as 
he is removed from che Sun bynearly 29 degrees 
while Mercury and Venus alone can function as 
Yogakarakas. The Yoga having been primarily 
caused by the owner and the residents of the 7th house, 
the results will pertain to the Bhava in question, so 
that the person will be generally fortunate in respect 
of ail the functions of the seventh house subject, of 
course, tothe inherent strength of the house con- 
cerned. 


17. Vasi Yoga 


Definition.—Planets other than the Moon ‘occu- 
pying the {2th from the Sun give rise to Vasi Yoga. 

Results. —The subject will be happy, prosperous, 
liberal and the favourite of the ruling classes. 

Remarks.—Here again, the definition and results 
are in reference to subhavasi. If malefics are present 
in the [2th, the results will be quite the reverse. The 
explanations given for the previous Yoga apply to 
this as well as to the next Yoga. 


18. Obhayachari Yoga 


Definition —If planets other than the Moon are 
present on either side of the Sun, Obhayachari is 
caused. 


Obhayachari Yoga 43 


Results. — The person will be an eloquent speaker. 
He will have well-proportioned limbs, will take de- 
light in everything. will be liked by all. wealthy and 
famous. 

Remarks.—One or more of the above three 
Yogas caused by the Sun would be present in almost 
every horoscope. Mercury is always confined within 
acertain elongation from the Sun unless the Sun is 
in the last part of a sign and Mercury has attained 
his greatest elongation, in which case, he will be in 
the 3rd or 11th house from the Sun’s position, Vesi 
or Vasi Yoga will invariably be present. Obviously, 
these Solar Yogas cannot be compared _ in their emi- 
nence to Rajayogas. They indicate more or less the 
‘ego’ development of the individual concerned. Some- 
times the Solar Yogas may be merged into other 
more important Dhana or Raja Y ogas with the result 
their interpretation is always subject to a closer ana- 
lysis of the more powerful combinations obtaining 
in the horoscope. 


19. Hamsa Yoga 


Definition.-~Jupter should occupy a Kendra 
which should be his own house or exaltation sign. 

Results.—His legs willhave the markings ofa 
conch, lotus, fish and ankusa. He will possess a hand- 
some body; he will be liked by others: he will be 
righteous in disposition and pure in mind. 


44 Three Hundred !mportant Combinations 


Remarks.—This and the following four Yogas go 
under the special distinction of Panchamahapurusha 
Yogas producing five kinds of great men. Varaha- 
mihira has extolled these five combinations in his 
Brihat Samhita. Hamsa Yoga is caused if Jupiter is 
in a Kendra which should be identical with his own 
sign (Swakshetra) or the sign in which he gets exal- 
ted. In other words, Hamsa Yoga is possible in res- 
pect of all common and the movable signs Aries, 
Cancer, Libra and Capricorn. The assumption here 
is that Lagna is also a Kendra or quadrant. Those 
born in fixed signs (Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Aqua- 
rius) cannot possess Hamsa Yoga inasmuch as 
neither Jupiter’s exaltation sign nor own house can 
be identical with his situation in a Kendra. The 
strength of the Yoga is dependent as usual on the 
strength of Lagna and Jupiter and in which Kendra 
he is disposed. Obviously, the tenth Kendra is the 
most powerful. The ownership of Kendra by Jupiter 
is not desirable but when Hamsa Yoga is present, 
the general principle loses its significance. As bet- 
ween the situation of Jupiter in a Kendra identical 
with Swakshetra anda Kendra identical with his 
uccha, Hamsa Yoga caused by the fatter is preferable 
inasmuch as even the trace of evil due to Jupiter’s 
quadrangular ownership disappears. Hamsa Yoga 
should be very carefully interpreted, as it is supposed 
to produce a man of sterling character and immense 
moral fibre. 


Hamsa Yog2 45 


Chact No 19 —Born on [2-5-1916 at Gh. 39-15 after Sun- 
rise. Lat, 13° N. ; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Jupiter 


Balance of Sun’s Dasa at birth: vears 5-1 1-3. 


The Lagna is Sagittarius and Jupiter is in 
Pisces—a kendra causing Hamsa Yoga. But still the 
native is neither a King nor a high personality. The 
reason is obvious. Jupiter is powerfully aspected by 
Saturn and Mars. But still, Jupiter is capable of 
giving rise to the results of Hamsa Yoga toa good 
extent in his Dasa. The native has a geod personality, 
is good-tempered and liked by his associates. The 
above horoscope is illustrated with a view to showing 
the restrictive effects of a Hamsa Yoga when Jupiter 
is subject to malefic aspects and associations. 


% Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 20.—Born on [1-4-1880 at Gh. 12 after Sunrise 
Lat. 18° N, ; Long. 32° 4 E. 


Sun 
Vesus 
Jupiter 
Saturo 
Mercury 


Jupite: | Moon 
Mercury | Rahu 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years 11-6-27. 


In Chart No. 20 Hamsa Yoga has resulted on 
account of the disposition of Jupiter in his own sign 
in 10th from Lagna. The 10th is the most powerful 
Kendra and Jupiter is in conjunction with lords of 
Lagna, Sth and 9th and hence fortified. Still the Yoga 
is not completely unadulterated with the result the 
native is not a King. He was a well-known figure in 
indian Politics and Journalism, self-made and earned 
good reputation for his sober and balanced views. 


Hamsa Yoga 47 


Chart No. 21.— Born on (4-12-1895 at 3-S am. Lat SI N., 
Long. 0° 5’ E. 


Sun 


NAVAMSA 


Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 


Lagna 
Venus 
Saturn 


Sun 


Balance of Saturn's Dasa at birth: years 17-10-27. 

Chart No. 21 isa typical example of Hamsa 
Yoga in its full swing. The Lagna is Libra and Jupi- 
ter is in a Kendra in exaltation in the {0th house. 
Naturally, the Yoga has manifested in regard to the 
10th house. In addition to Hamsa Yoga, Malavya 
end Sasa Yogas are also present inasmuch as Venus 
and Saturn are respectively in Kendras identical with 
their Swakshetra and Swauccha. No wonder the 
horoscope belongs to a great King. Sasa Yoga ren- 
dered the native covetous of other’s possessions. 
Consequently he was the head of the greatest im- 
perial possession, an anachronism with modern con- 
cepts of democracy and freedom. 


20. Malavya Yoga 


Definition.—Venus should occupy a quadrant 
which should be his own or exaltation sign. 

Results.—The person will have a well-developed 
physique, will be strong-minded, wealthy, happy with 
children and wife, will command vehicles, endowed 
with clean sense-organs and renowned and learned. 

Remarks.—Malavya Yoga can come into exis- 
tence if Venus is exalted in a Kendra or occupies a 
Kendra which should be his own house. Malavya 
Yoga cannot occur with’ reference to every sign of 
the zodiac. Consistent with the nature of Venus, 
Malavya Yoga will make one resolute, immensely 
rich and give him happiness from wife and children 
and fame and name. Venus is the indicator of conve- 
yances, sensual pleasures, music, dancing, fine arts, 
luxury and material comforts. Naturally Malavya 
Yoga renders one inclined towards all the indications 
of Venus, with the result his spiritual advancement 
and outlook will be in inverse ratio to his material 
comforts and pleasures. In other words, while both 
Hamsa and Malavya are Raja Yogas, the former 
makes one more idealistic, spiritual, broad-minded 
and selfless, while the latter indicates love of plea- 
sure, and a predominantly materialistic outlook of 
life. Malavya Yoga can manifest in reference to the 
various Bhavas as given hereunder for persons born 
in different Lagnas. 


Matlavya Yoga 49 


Taurus, Libra and Pisces ... First house 
Aries, Scorpio and Virgo . Seventh house 
Gemini, Leo and Capricorn ... Tenth house 
Sagittarius, Aquarius and 

Cancer... Fourth house 


Chart No. 20 on page 46 may be taken as an 
example of Malavya Yoga as Venus is exalted in the 
10th house which is a Kendra. It may be noted that 
all the five Yogas, going under the special distinc- 
tion of Panchamaha Yogas, can occur unblemished 
only in exceptional cases and with regard to the 
generality of horoscopes, these Yogas will not be 
of much political value. 


21. Sasa Yoga 


Definition.—Sasa Yoga is given rise to if Saturn 
occupies a Kendra_ which should be his own or exal- 
tation sign. 

Results. —One born in this Yoga will command 
good servants. His character will be questionable. 
He will be head ofa village ora town or evena 
King, will covet other’s riches and will be wicked in 
disposition. 

Remarks.—Here Saturn comes into the picture. 
He should be exalted ina Kendra or occupy a 
Kendra being his own house. Birth in movable or 
fixed signs can giverise to Sasa Yoga by a certain 
disposition of Saturn. Naturally, common signs are 

4 


50 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


exempted. Saturn’s inherent nature seems to play a 
large part in giving rise to the Yoga. Saturn is cruel, 
mean, undignified and sinful and consistent with 
these characteristics, the results of Sasa Yoga should 
be depicted. The man no doubt becomes famous and 
happy but his sexual outlook would be perverse. He 
would be sporting with othermen’s wives and he 
would employ every unscrupulous means to gain 
other’s money. Most of our ‘war contractors’ would. 
perhaps be having Sasa Yoga; otherwise they could 
not have minted millions at the cost of the poor 


man. 
In interpreting the Sasa Yoga, due consideration 


should be bestowed on the disposition of the Moon. 
If this luminary is free from affliction, then the per- 
son having ‘Sasa Yoga’ will not covet other’s wealth 
nor will he be unscrupulous. Where the Moon is not 
afflicted, the evil results attributed to Sasa Yoga can 
have anonly ‘restricted play’. 

Chart No. 22.—Born on 31-1-1896 at 4-40 a.m. Lat. 
22° 20' N.; Lang. 73° E. 


Mercury 
Rahu 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter 


Mercury 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 2-3-1 


Ruchaka Yoga 51 


Saturn is in the 4th Kendra from Moon in exal- 
tation. The Moon is not free from affliction. But 
Jupiter’s exaltation has immensely improved the 
Moon’s situation with the result the native cannot 
entertain unholy thoughts. The Sasa Yoga is power- 
ful inasmuch asit has occurred in the 4th or house of 
lands, houses, etc. This will make the native more or 
less equal to a King and his earnings would be by 
Jakhs. Saturn makes the native a great industrialist. 


22. Ruchaka Yoga 


Definition.—Mars should be exalted in a Kendra 
or occupy a Kendra which should be his own sign. 

Results.—The person born in Ruchaka will have 
a strong physique, famous, well-versed in ancient 
lore, King or anequal toa King, conforming to 
traditions and customs. He will have a ruddy com- 
plexion, attractive body, charitable disposition, 
wealthy, long-lived and leader of an army. 

Remarks.—The Panchamahapurusha Yogas can 
be said to exist only when the planets concerned are 
strong and are full of vitality. The meaning implies 
five types of great men. Naturally.a really powerful 
Yoga would be a rare phenomenon. Emphasis is laid 
on the word halishta so that if a planet is weak by 
debilitation, association or aspect the Yoga does not 
operate in its real sense, though nominally, it may 
exist. Here importance is attached to the de facto 
rather than de jure presence of the Yoga. Out of the 


52 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


several horoscopes given above illustrating the 
Panchamahapurusha Yogas, excepting Nos. 20 and 
21 the rest are of no practical value inasmuch as 
their strength is either nominal or completely negli- 
gible. 

Ruchaka Yoga is caused by the strong disposi- 
tion of Mars in a Kendra identical with his own or 
exalted sign. Ruchaka Yoga makes one martial, a 
leader of men, a great Commander, an aggressive 
but a patriotic ruler or an equal. 

Chart No. 23.— Born on 20-4-1889 at 6-30 p.m. Lat. 48° N.; 
Long. 13° E. 


Jupiter 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years 16-4-6, 


in Chart No. 23 Mars is in the 7th, a Kendra in 
his own house. Mars is rendered extremely powerful 
by conjunction with the Sun, lord of the {1th, Saturn 
a Yogakaraka, and Mercury ford of the 9th. Mars is 
no doubt very powerful but highly malefic. So 
Ruchaka Yoga is present in all its strength but be- 
cause Mars is subject to the other evil rays, there is 
an element of destructiveness in this Yoga. Ruchaka 


Ruchaka Yoga $3 


Yoga made the native daring, extremely aggressive, 
afrogant, a great leader and the greatest ruler and 
tyrant of modern times leading his country to 
abysmal depths of destruction. Though. born in 
humble circumstances, he became ruler of a most 
powerful country anda whole continent trembled 
before his mite and power of destruction. 


23. Bhadra Yoga 


Definition —Bhadta Yoga is caused by the dis- 
position of Mercury ina Kendra which should be 
identical with his own or exaltation sign. 

Resuits.—The person born in Bhadra Yoga will 
be strong, will have a lion-like face, well-developed 
chest, well-proportioned limbs, will be taciturn, will 
help relatives and will live upto a good old age. 

Remarks.—Mercury is the planet of intellect and 
in consonance with the inherent nature of Mercury, 
Bhadra Yoga will manifest. Mercury must be very 
powerful as otherwise the presence of the combina- 
tion will be simply de jure. 

In Chart No. 24 Mercury isin the 10th in his 
own house having caused Bhadra Yoga. Mercury is 
not subjected to any evil influences. The physical 
features of the person have partaken of the charac- 
teristic of the Lagna while in the matter of intelfectual 
development, learning, wealth and generous instincts, 
Bhadra Yoga has been fully illustrated. 


54 Three Hundred important Combinations 


Chart No. 24 —Born on 23-10-1883 at’ Gh. 10-45 after Sun- 
rise. Lat. 12° N. ; Long. 77° 34° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Moon 
Jupiter 


Venus [Merc. Mars 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 7-3-23. 


24. Budha-Aditya Yoga 


Definition —If Mercury combines with the Sun, 
the combination goes under the name of Budha- 
Aditya Yoga. 

Results.—Highly intelligent, skilful in all works, 
good reputation, personal respect and surrounded by 
all comforts and happiness. 

Remarks.—Generally, any planet in association 
with the Sun becomes combust or Astha and loses 
its power to do good. perhaps Mercury is an excep- 
tion. It should not be taken for granted that irrespec- 
tive of the distance between the Sunand Mercury, 
Budha-Aditya Yoga would be present. On the 


Mahabhagya Yoga 55 


contrary, Mercury should not be within 10° of the 
Sun to give rise to Budha-Aditya Yoga. This combina- 
tion is not, of course, rare. 


25. Mahabhagya Yoga 


Definition.—I\n the case of a man, when the birth 
is during daytime the Sun, the Moon and the Lagna 
should be in odd signs. In the case of women, when 
the birthis during night, the Sun, the Moon and 
Lagna must be in even signs. 

Resuits.—A male born under this Yoga will have 
good character, will be a source of pleasure to others, 
will be liberal, generous, famous, a ruler or an equal 
to him and lives to a good old age. A female born 
in this combination will be blessed with long-lived 
children and wealth and she will be of good conduct. 

Remarks.—Mahabhagya means good fortune. 
Obviously, one born in this combination will be 
really fortunate. The Lagna, the Sun and the Moon 
form the tripod of life ruling as they do the body, 
the soul and the mind respectively and when these 
three elements are disposed in odd or masculine 
signs, the person will be an ideal one. 


56 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 25.—Born on 1-9-1897 at 8-35 pm. (L.M.T ) 
Lat. II° N. ; Long. 78° 40° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Sun 
Venus 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth: years 3-5-17. 

In this horoscope, the Lagna is Aries, the Sun is 
in Leo andthe Moon isin Libra —all odd _ signs, 
consequently Mahabhagya Yoga is fully present. But 
since however the Lagnadhipathi is bereft of Jupiter's 
influence, the native is miserly though in very affluent 
circumstances. Has risen by shcer merit. 


26. Pushkala Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the sign occupied by the 
Moon (who should be associated with lord of Lagna) 
should be in a Kendra or in the house of an intimate 
friend aspecting Lagna and at the same time, Lagna 
should be occupied by a powerful planet. 

Results.—Wealthy, sweet speech, famous, ho- 
noured by the King and a lord. 


Pushkala Yoga 57 


Remarks.—The Yoga is somewhat complicated. 
First of all, the lord of Lagna should be with the 
Moon. Lord of the sign occupied by the Moon 
should be in a very friendly sign or in Kendra aspec- 
ting the Lagna and the Lagna should havea strongly 
disposed planet. Pushkala Yoga in actual practice is 
full of significance inasmuch as it comprehends that 
Lagna, the lord of Lagna, the Moon and ford of 
Chandra Lagna should all be powerful. 

In Chart No. 26, lord of Lagna Saturn is with 
the Moon; lord of Chandra Lagna isin a Kendra 
aspecting Lagna. But there is no planet in Lagna. 
Subject to the absence of the third condition, Push- 
kala Yoga may be said to be present. The native has 
been enjoying all the blessings of this Yoga. An 
absolutely favourable Yoga is an impossibility. 

Chart No. 26.—Born on 8-8-1912 at 7-23 pm (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N. ; Long. 77° 34' E. 


Satum | Venus 


NAVAMSA. 


Jupiter Jupiter 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 6-0-10. 


27. Lakshmi Yoga 


Definition —lf the lord of Lagna is powerful and 
the lord of the 9th occupies own or exaltation sign 
identical with a Kendra or Thrikona, Lakshmi Yoga 
is caused. 

Results —The person will be wealthy, noble, 
learned, aman of high integrity and reputation, 
handsome appearance, a good ruler, and enjoying 
all the pleasures and comforts of life. 

Remarks.—-Different definitions are given for 
Lakshmi Yoga. I mention a few versions for the 
readers’ information. Lakshmi Yoga is said to arise 
(a) by the mutual association of lords of Lagna and 
the 9th ; (5) by the lord of the 9th occupying Kendra, 
Thrikona, or exaltation and the lord of Lagna being 
disposed powerfully ; and (c) by the lord of the 9th 
and Venus being posited in own or exaltation places 
which should be Kendras or Thrikonas. 

Obviously, Lakshmi Yoga presumes the strength 
of lord of Lagna, Venus, and the lord of the 9th. 
Lakshmi has predominantly to do with wealth and 
one born in this combination will be wealthy. the 
degree of wealth varying with regard to the degree 
of strength or weakness of the planets causing the 
Yoga. Thedefinition given in para (c) supra will 
produce the most powerful type of Lakshmi Yoga 
indicating immense wealth, while the mutual asso- 
ciation of or aspect between the lords of Lagna and 
the 9th in houses other than 3, 6 and 8 would also 


Lakshmi Yora 9 


result in an ordinary type of Lakshmi Yoga which 
might be fortified by the presence of other Dhana 
Yogas. 


Chart No. 27.—Born un 14-7 1887 at 9-15 a.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N ; Long. 77° 34° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter Lagna} Jupiter 


Balance of Kethu’s Dasa at birth: years 1-5-19. 


Lakshmi Yoga ts present in the above horoscope 
by the association of lord of Lagna (the Sun) and 
the lord of the 9th (Mars) both being posited in the 
Ilth. Mars’ Dasa was very bright and it gave the 
native much wealth, name and reputation. 

Where a really strong Lakshmi Yoga is present, 
and this is indeed a rare phenomenon, the results 
will manifest fully. 

But in almost every horoscope of any pretence 
to wealth, Lakshmi Yoga in some form or other is 
likely to be found. 


6 Three Hundred important Combinations 


Chart No. 28.— Born on 26-9-1874 at 0pm = Lat. 13° N.; 
Long 77° 34’. E. 


Satum 

Jupiter 

Venus 
Rahu 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth : years 7-10-26. 

In Chart No. 28 lord of the 9th 4s in a Thrikona 
in his own house. But Venus though in his own 
house is not in a thrikona or kendra. Lakshmi Yoga 
is present. Besides this, the Dhana Yoga is excellent 
because lord of the 2nd Mercury is in the 5th exalted 
and in association with the 4th lord Sun. The native 
was the ruler of a sma] but independent State and 
he commanded much wealth. 


28. Gauri Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of the Navamsa occupied 
by the lord of the !0th should join the 10th in exal- 
tation and combined with the lord of Lagna. 

Results.—The person belongs toa respectable 
family, owns several lands, charitable. performs 


Gauri Yoga 6 


religious rites, his sons will be of good character and 
he will be praised by ail. 

Remarks.—Here again two definitions are to be 
found. Apart from what is given above, another 
school of Astrologers hold that Gauri Yoga is pro- 
duced if the lord of the 9th and the Moon be posited 
in their own or exaltation signs identical with a 
trine or quadrant. The view held by certain orthodox 
Pandits that Gauri Yoga will manifest only between 
the ages of 36 and 48, does not seem to be reaso- 
nable inasmuch as there is no special injunction 
warranting such a belief. We shall stick to the defini- 
tion we have first propounded and deem that in 
order to cause Gauri Yoga, the lord of the Navamsa 
occupied hy the 10th lord be in the 10th exalted. 
Such a definition does not exclude the possibility of 
some other planet occupying the 10th house. 


Chart No. 29.—Born‘on 1-8-1908 at Gh. 15-30 after Sunrise. 
Lat. 1” N. ; Long, 78° 40' E. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Sun’s Dasa at birth: years 4-!-10. 


62 Three Hundred Important Combinaiions 


In Chart No. 29 (see page 61), lord of the 10th 
is the Moon. He is in Pisces in Nayamsa. The lord 
of this Navamsa is Jupiter and he is exalted in the 
10th. This is a typical horoscope illustrating the pre- 
sence of Gauri Yoga. The native isin the Indian 
Civil Service and has all the characteristics of Gauri 
Yoga. 


29. Bharathi Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the Navamsa occupied 
by the lords of the 2nd, Sth and 11th should be exal- 
ted and combined with the 9th lord. 

Results —World famous, a reputed scholar, fond 
of music, romantic, handsome, attractive, religiously 
inclined and bewitching eyes. 

Remarks.—Three Yogas are given rise to inas- 
much as the 9th lord cannot be in simultaneous con- 
junction with all the three Navamsa lords. Therefore 
Bharathi Yoga may be said to exist (a) if the lord of 
Navamsa occupied by the 2nd lord is exalted and in 
conjunction with the 9th lord, (b) if the lord of the 
Navamsa occupied by the Sth Jord is exalted and 
combines with the 9th lord, and (c) if the lord of the 
Navamsa occupied by the 1!th lord is similarly dis- 
posed. Bharathi Yoga is not quite acommon combi- 
nation. 

In Chart No. 30 the lord of the Sth Venus is in 
the Navamsa of Gemini, the lord of which, viz., 
Mercury is exalted in the 4th and in association with 


Bharathi Yoga 63 


the lord of the 9th. This chart is a typical example 
of Bharathi Yoga. On account of other evil combi- 
nations, the significance of the Yoga in question is 
practically non-existent. 


Chart No. 30.—Born on 28 8-1853, af Gh. $2-0 after Sun- 
rise. Lat, 13° N. ; Long. 77° 34 E. 


Kethu !Lagna Kethu | Saturn 


NAVAMSA 


R. H. 79 


Mars Rahu 
Jupiter 


Rahu Jupiter 
| 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth: years 6-11-21. 


30. Chapa Yoga 


Definition.—\f the Ascendant lord is exalted and 
the 4th and 10th lords have interchanged houses, 
Chapa Yoga is caused. 

Results—The person will grace a King’s Council, 
be wealthy and full of strength and an Exchequer or 
a Comptroller of treasury. 

Remarks.—My observations extending over 
nearly twenty years lead me to conclude that Chapa 
Yoga makes one control the wealth of others rather 


64 Three Hundred (mportant Combinauons 


than make him rich. Horoscopes of bank cashiers, 
financial secretaries and exchequers could be advan- 
tageously studied. 


31. Sreenatha Yoga 


Definition. ff the exalted lord of the 7th occu- 
pies the 10th and the Jord of the 10th is with the 9th 
lord, Sreenatha Y oga is caused. 

Results.—The native will have on his body the 
insignia of Vishnu, viz., the conch, the wheel, etc.. 
be an agreeable speaker, godly, have a good wife 
and children and be loved by all. 

Remarks.—Sreenatha Yoga may be said to be 
one of the important Raja Yogas inasmuch as a point 
of contact is established between the 7th, 9th and 
10th houses. It is held to give rise to power as weil 
as wealth. The [ford of the 7th should be invariably 
exalted in the 10th, the lord of which, in turn, must 
be with the 9th lord. Obviously Sreenatha Yoga can 
occur only in respect of Sagittarius in which case 
Mercury, ford of the 7th, could remain exalted in the 
10th. For no other Lagna can the 7th lord remain 
exalted in the 10th. Since the original writers have 
laid emphasis on the fact that the 7th lord should be 
in the 10th* exalted, we have to conclude that the 
Yoga is arare one and that it cannot arise with 
regard to any other sign of the zodiac than Sagittarius 
If the definition could be extended to mean that the 


* Kamesware Karmagate Swatunge 


Malika Yoga 65 


exalted 7th lord could also aspect the 10th, then 
Cancer and Libra could be included. Whether such 
a departure is permissible, I cannot yet say as the 
materials at my disposal are too inadequate to admit 
of a definite opinion. 


32 to 43. Malika Yogas 


Definition.—If all the seven planets occupy the 
seven houses contiguously, reckoned from Lagna or 
any particular Bhava, the appropriate Malika Yoga 
is caused. 

Results.—Lagna Malika—King, Ruler or Com- 
mander, wealthy; Dhana Malika—very wealthy, 
dutiful, resolute and unsympathetic ; Vikrama Malika 
—ruler, rich, sickly, surrounded by brave men; 
Sukha Malika—charitable and wealthy ; Putra Malika 
—highly religious and famous; Satru Malika—greedy 
and somewhat poor; Kalatra Malika—coveted by 
women and influential; Randhra Malika—poor and 
hen-pecked; Bhagya Malika—teligious, well-to-do, 
mighty and good; Karma Malika—respected and 
virtuous ; Labha Malika—skilful and lovely women ; 
and Vraya Malika—honoured, liberal and respected. 

Remarks.—Twelve types of Malika Yogas, one 
for each Bhava, are caused. Thus the Yoga beginning 
from the first is Lagna Malika, the one beginning 
from the fifth, Putra Malika and soon. The seven 
planets (exciuding of course Rahu and Kethu) should 

5 


66 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


occupy the seven houses contiguously from a Bhava 
in question. While the generality of Astrologers hold 
the view suggested above as regards the twelve kinds 
of Malika Yogas, Bhavartha Rathnakara makes a 
departure and suggests that the Malika Yoga should 
always commence from Lagna and be disposed with- 
in five to nine houses from Lagna. According to this 
view, evidently no contiguity is implied. 


44. Sankha Yoga 


Definition —The lords of the 5th and 6th should 
be in mutual Kendras and the lord of Lagna must 
be powerful. 

Results—Fond of pleasures, humanitarian, 
blessed with wife, children and lands, righteously in- 
clined, doing good deeds, learned in sciences. and 
living upto a good old age. 

Remarks.—Where the planet er the house is not 
powerful, allthe results attributed to a particular 
Yoga cannot happen but only traces of them will be 
present. Where Sankha Yoga is present, the sixth 
lord also becomes beneficial inasmuch as by causing 
the Yoga, he must also be capable of producing the 
good results of the Yoga in his Dasa or Bhukthi. 
But still the blemish due to the sixth lordship must 
express itself by way of the native suffering from the 
machinations of debts, diseases or enemies. 


Sankha Yoga 67 


Chart No. 31.—Born on 8-8-19]2 at 7-23 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 43° N.; Long Sh. 10m. 20s E. 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 6-0-10. 


In Chart No. 31, lord of the Sth Mercury is ina 
Kendra from the Moon, lord of the 6th, and lord of 
Lagna Saturn is powerful by being placed in the 4th 
in a friendly house aspecting Lagna. 


45. Bheri Yoga 


Definition —If Venus, lord of Lagna and Jupiter 
are in mutual Kendras and the lord of the 9th is 
powerfully disposed, Bheri Yoga is caused. 

Results —Long-lived, free from desease, ruler, 
various sources of income, happiness from wife and 
children, exalted soul, generous instincts and reli- 
giously inclined. 


68 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No 32 — Born on 23-2-1896 at Gh. 38-30 at 13° N.; 
77° 35° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 2-1-28. 


Remarks.—The sum and substance of Bheri Yoga 
is that it will make the native lead a happy and com- 
fortable life. 

In Chart No. 32 Venus is lord of Lagna and he 
is in a Kendra from Jupiter and Mercury lord of the 
9th is powerfully disposed. The native is a high 
Educational Officer and is enjoying all the blessings 
of the Yoga subject of course to other evil disposi- 
tions of planets. 


46. Mridanga Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of the Navamsa occupied 
by an exalted planet should be posited in a trine or 


Mrid.nga Yoga 69 


quadrant identical with friendly or exalted sign, and 
the lord of Lagna shoutd be strongly disposed. 

Results.—Respected by rulers, famous, attractive 
and commanding much influence. 

Remarks.—The definition of the Yoga is some- 
what confusing. Some planet is exalted and he occu- 
pies some Navamsa. The lord of the said Navamsa 
should occupy a Kendra, or Thrikona which should 
be either his own or exaltation or friendly house. In 
addition to this, the lord of Lagna should also be 


powerful. 
In Chart No. 33 Jupiter, an exalted planet, 


is in Sagittarius Navamsa. The lord of this is 
Jupiter himself and he is in a Kendra identical 
with his own exaltation. Even taking Venus lord of 
Amsa in which Saturn (another exalted planet) is 
placed, we find that he is in a Kendra identical with 
his own house while lord of Lagna is also Venus. 
Mridanga Yoga is present. The native was the ruler 
of a vast Empire. 

Chart No. 33.—Born on 14-12-1895 at 3-Sa.m. (L. M. T.) 
Lat. 51° 31’ N. ; Long. 6° 6 W. 


NAVAMSA 


Mars | . Kethu 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth: years 17-10-27. 


47. Parijatha Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the sign in which the 
lord of the house occupied by the Ascendant lord, 
or the lord of Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 
Rasi in which the Ascendant lord is posited, shall 
join a quadrant, atrine or his own or exaltation 
places. 

Results.—Happy in the middle and last parts of 
life, receiving the homage of Kings and Rulers, 
fond of wars, possessing elephants and horses, con- 
forming to traditions and customs, generous and 
famous. 

Remarks.—Parijatha Yoga may be held to be 
equivalent to a powerful Raja Yoga. Where it is 
interspersed with Parivraja Yoga or the latter Yoga 
is also present in addition to Parijatha, the native 

Chart No. 34.—Born on 1-3-1858 at9 pm. Lat. 13° N.; 
Long. 77° 34° E. 


Sun 
Venus 


Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Mars Lagna 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 7-2-8. 


Parijatha Yoga Zl 


becomes a religious head commanding all the King’s 
paraphernalia and holding spiritual authority over 
millions of people. 

In Chart No. 34 is the horoscope of a brilliant 
and learned man advanced in Yoga. Lord of Lagna 
is Venus. He is in Pisces; lord of this sign, viz., 
Jupiter occupies Aries and the lord of this sign Mars 
isin his own house, causing Parijatha Yoga. The 
native of the horoscope was one of the most learned 
men of his times and was a highly advanced Y ogee. 
Being the head of millions of Hindus, several Rajas 
and Maharajas used to prostrate before his feet. He 
commanded all the privileges and paraphernalia of 
a secular ruler even though his authority was purely 
religious. 


48. Gaja Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of the 9th from the !1th 
should occupy the 1 1th in conjunction with the Moon 
and aspected by the lord of the J Ith. 

Results.—Will command cattle, elephants and 
horses ; will be happy and rich throughout life. 

Remarks.—The Yoga is said to operate between 
the ages of 20 and 29. Obviously, this injunction is 
inconsistent with the statement that the native would 
be happy throughout life. The 9th from the I1/th 
would be the 7th so that the lord of the 7th should 
occupy the 11th with the Moon and be aspected by 
the lord of the 11th. The native may be generally 


72 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


happy throughout life but the exact period during 
which the Yoga may hold sway would be in propor- 
tion to the strength of the various planets causing 
the Yoga and their Dasa and Bhukthi periods. The 
underlying idea seems to be that when Gaja Yoga is 
powerful, the native would always gain in his dealings 
with others. 

It is difficult to get examples of Gaja Yoga. In 
Chart No. 35 lord of the 7th (or 9th from 1ith) 
is the Moon. He is in the I]th aspected by Mars, 
lord of the 1ith so that Gaja Yoga is illustrated. 
Since the lord of the 7th himself is the Moon, 
the question of his association with the Moon does 
not arise at all. 

Chart No. 35.—Born on ‘6-9-1943 at 3-15 pan (L.M.T.) at 
18° 58° N.; 72° 49' E. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth: years 12-9-18. 


49. Kalanidhi Yoga 


Definition —Jupiter must join or be aspected by 
Mercury and Venus either in the 2nd or in the 5th 
house; Jupiter must occupy the 2nd or Sth identical 
with the swakshetra of Mercury or Venus. 

Results.—Highly passionate, good-natured, re- 
vered by kings, commanding different kinds of conve- 
yances and all sorts of aristocratic paraphernalia and 
immune from disease. 

Remarks.—Kalanidhi Yoga, based on our own 
humble observations, seems to arise not so much by 
the disposition of Jupiter with Mercury or Venus in 
their signs as by the conjunction of Mercury, Jupiter 
and Venus in the 2nd or Sth. Moreover, where Kala- 
nidhi Yoga is really powerful, the subject seems to 
enjoy alternate periods of adversity and prosperity. 
There is no suggestion to this effect in any of the 
ancient writings but I am venturing an opinion based 
on my own observations. This is a pucca Raja Yoga 
because of the conjunction of three benefics in the 
house of wealth or fortune. I have also been able to 
observe that Kalanidhi Yoga could result if Jupiter 
is either with Mercury or with Venus or with both 
Mercury and Venus not only in the 2nd and the 5th 
but in the 9th also inasmuch as the 9th is the house 
of fortune. Iam giving a typical horoscope illus- 
trating what a really powerful Kalanidhi Yoga can 
do. 


74 Three Hundred Importunt Combinations 


Chart No. 36 is the horoscope of a_ great 
administrator, a brilliant lawyer and an astute 
statesman. Lagna is Capricorn and the 2nd is occu- 
pied by Jupiter, Mercury and Venus (in addition to 
the Sun and Moon) thus causing a powerful Kala- 
nidhi Yoga. The native was Dewan of a leading 
Indian State, served in the Viceroy’s Executive 


Chart No. 3u.— Born on 20/21-2-1879 at 4-50 a.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 10° 43° N.; Long. 76° 48° EF. 


Saturn 


duo 
Venus 
Moon 

Mercury 


Jupiter RASI 


Lagna 
Rahv 


Kethu 
NAVAMSA 
Sua 


Saturn 
Mler-cury 
Moon Shupter 
Kethu 
Mars } 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth: years 14-6-29, 


Council and was a capable politician and an autho- 
rity on constitutional law. He was not only honoured 
by the rulers but was highly independent and toa 
certain extent, autocratic. The horoscope fully illus- 
trates what a powerful Kalanidhi Yoga can do. 


50. Amsavatara Yoga 


Definition—Venus and Jupiter should be in 
Kendras, the Lagna must fall in a movable sign and 
Saturn must be exalted in a Kendra. 

Results—Unsullied name and fame, versatile 
learning, fond of sex pleasures, passions under con- 
trol, an authority of philosophy, a ruler or an equal 
to him. 

Remarks.—Emphasis is laid on the unsullied or 
pure nature of reputation. One born in this yoga 
cannot be unscrupulous. Of course in a horoscope, 
where so many other influences are present, one’s 
character analysis should not be made on the strength 
of a mere yoga however powerful it may be. 

Chart No. 37.—Born on 14-12-1895 at 3-Sam. (LMT) 


Lat. 51° 31 N.; Long. 0° 6' W. 


NAVAMSA 


Moon 


Kethu 


Mercury | Saturn 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth : years 17-10-27. 
In Chart No. 37 Jupiter and Venus are in 
Kendras and Saturn is exalted ina Kendra so that 


76 Three Hundred important Combinations 


Amsavatara Yoga is present. The native was the 
ruler of a full-blown Empire. 


51. Harihara Brahma Yoga 


Definition.—If benefics are inthe 8th or 12th 
from the 2nd lord ; or if Jupiter, the Moon and Mer- 
gury are in the 4th, 9th and 8th from the 7th lord; 
or if the Sun, Venus and Mars are in the 4th, 10th 
and 11th from the lord of Lagna, the above Yoga is 
caused. 

Results.—One_ born in this Yoga will be an emi- 
nent scholar in Vedas, touthful, surrounded by all 
pleasures, a pleasing speaker, fond of sex pleasures, 
conqueror of enemies, helpful to others and engaged 
in virtuous deeds. 

Remarks.—This seems to be a somewhat compli- 
cated Yoga. Three combinations are comprehended, 
viz., (a) benefics should occupy the 8th and 12th 
from the 2nd lord; (6) Jupiter, Moon and Mercury 
must be in the 4th, 9th and 8th respectively from the 
7th lord ; or (c) the Sun, Venus and Mars must be in 
the 4th, [0th and 11th from the lord of Lagna. The 
Yoga to be effective must be strong and be disposed 
as suggested above. Thus, pride of place has been 
given to Lagna, the 2nd and 7th lords. There seems 
to be some good reason for considering these three 
factors. Lagna represents the birth or creation of the 
individual. The 2nd represents the wealth which is 
so very essential for protection or preservation while 


Kusuma Yoga 7 


the 7th being the house of Maraka signifies destruc- 
tion. These three activities of creation, protection 
and destruction are carried on by the Hindu Trinity, 
viz., Brahma, Vishnu or Hari and Maheshwara or 
Hara and hence the combination is termed Harihara 
Brahma Yoga. 


52. Kusuma Yoga 


Definition —\f Jupiter is in Lagna, the Moon in 
the 7th andthe Sun inthe 8th from the Moon, 
Kusuma Yoga is caused. 

Results. The person will be a King or equal to 
a King, protector of kith and kin, founder of a town 
or a headman, and possessed of unsullied reputation. 

Remarks.—Jupiter in Lagna is a highly beneficial 
combination and when the Moon is in the 7th from 
Jupiter, Gajakesari Yoga is caused. The Sun’s situa- 
tion in the 8th from the Moon, which means the 
same as being in the 2nd, results in Subhavasi Yoga 
as Jupiter will be in the 12th. Thus Kusuma Yoga 
has resulted by the mingling of Gajakesari and Vasi 
Yogas. In such cases where two or more Yogas are 
merged together, the most powerful of the lot is to 
be taken into account. Magistrates, munsiffs, village 
headmen, mayors and municipal commissioners may 
be born when Kusuma Yoga is strongly formed. 

Chart No. 38. (See page 78) is a typical horos- 
cope illustrating Kusuma Yoga. Jupiter is in Lagna, 
the Moon in the 7th and the Sun in the 2nd. But all 


78 Theee Hundred Important Combinations 


the three planets who have caused the Yoga are sub- 
ject toevil influences because the Moon is with 
Kethu, Jupiter is subject to Rahu’s influence and. the 
Sun is of course associated with Saturn and othér 
malefics. Chart No. 38, whilst illustrative of the 
theory of the Yoga, has not given rise to more than 
20 or 25% of the results because of its restrictive 
nature. 

Chart No. 38.—Born on 15-12-1899 at 5-42.a.m. (LM.T) 
Lat. 10° 45° N. ; Long. 19° 4° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Venus Jupiter 
Mercury Kethu 


Balance of Sun’s Dasa at birth : years }-2-12. 


Prof. Rao gives another definition in his Sata- 
yoga Manjari according to which Venus should 
occupy a fixed signin a Kendra, weak Moon ina 
trine and the Sun in the 10th house to cause Kusuma 
Yoga. Obviously Venus cannot occupy any other 
Kendra than the 10th house in case the Sun is also 
to be in the 10th for Venus and the Sun cannot be 
apart from each other beyond 47°. This will therefore 
mean that the weak Moon should occupy a urine and 
the Sun and Venus must be in the !@th. In higher 


Kusuma Yoga 19 


latitudes, however, where often there is merging of 
two signs in a Bhava, Venus can occupy either 
Lagna or the 7th house and the Sun can join the 10th, 
depending upon whether Venus is heading towards 
inferior or superior conjunction. As almost all Yogas 
seem to have been based upon certain mutual angu- 
lar dispositions of planets, Rasis are implied and not 
Bhavas, because if the Yoga-formation is based on 
Bhava reckoning, the distance between the planets 
forming a particular Yoga will be varying with refe- 
rence to each individual horoscope. Thus for instance 
in Kusuma Yoga, the Sun is to be in the 10th. This 
according to Rasi reckoning means an aspectal 
angle of 270° while according to Bhava reckoning, it 
may mean justthe distance between the Lagna and 
the 10th Bhava which varies with regard to each 
horoscope. Without straining the combinations too 
much, it seems safe to assume that Yogas are based 
on the disposition of planets in certain Rasis from 
each other. 


53. Matsya Yoga 


Definition. —If Lagna and 9th are joined by male- 
fics the Sth by both malefics and benefics and the 4th 
and 8th by malefics, Matsya Yoga is formed. 

Results —The person will be an ocean of love, a 
reader of times, good-natured, strong character, 
famous, religious and learned. 


80 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.--This seems to be a peculiar combina- 
tion because the two most important houses, viz., 
Lagne and the ninth should be occupied by evil 
planets, the fifth should contain a mixture of good 
and evil planets while malefics alone should occupy 
the 4th and 8th. Such Yogas, though not impossible 
of occurrence, are indeed rare because if Mercury 
and the Moon become beneficial by good association 
and waxing respectively, onlv three malefics are left 
out (excluding Rahu and Kethu) to cause the Yoga. 
if Rahu and Kethu are also included, then all the 
malefics cannot occupy the Ist, 9th, 4th and 8th inas- 
much as Rahu and Kethu must always be 180° apart. 
The presence of Matsya Yoga in a horoscope may 
be admitted if Lagna, 4th, 8th and 9th, or at least 
Lagna and 9th have malefics and the fifth both bene- 
fics and malefics. In Sanskrit Matsya means a fish 
and this Yoga is supposed to be a very favourable 
one. The high place given to it is equalled by its con- 
spicuous rarity in actual horoscopes. If we include 
the aspects of planets also, then the Yoga can occur 
in a number of horoscopes. 


54. Kurma Yoga 


Definition —When benefics occupy the Sth, 6th 
and 7th and join their exaltation, own or friendly 
Navamsas; or when benefics occupy the Ist, 3rd and 
11th identical with their exaltation, own or friendly 
signs, there results what is called Kurma Yoga. 


Kurma Yoga 81 


Results —World famous, princely enjoyments, 
righteous, courageous, happy, helpful to others, 
leader of men and a man of mild temperament. 

Remarks.—Opinion is divided as regards the 
exact interpretation of the word mitramsakarasiyatah 
which may mean a friendly sign or a friendly 
Navamsa. Some authorities suggest that as in the 
second part of the stanza the word mitrochasamsthah 
has been used, it is more reasonable to interpret that 
the reference isto friendly Rasis. It is of course 
somewhat difficult to conceive of a planet occupying 
a particular house identical with a friendly Navamsa 
since two sets of combinations are given. I am in- 
clined to accept the views of Prof. Rao, that the first 
set of combinations would be partly in reference to 
the Navamsa disposition while the second one is to 
be applied solely to the usual Rasi dispositions. In 
other words, Kurma Yoga is said to arise (a) if bene- 
fics occupy the Sth, 6th and 7th houses and join 
own, exalted and friendly Navamsas or (4) if benefics 
occupy the Ist, 3rd and Iith identical with their 
exalted, own or friendly places. J have my own 
doubts as to the correctness or otherwise of the inter- 
pretation given above. Therefore readers must accept 
my remarks with a certain amount of reservation. So 
far as the results are concerned, Kurma Yoga seems 
to indicate reputation, fame and influence but not 
much wealth. 

6 


82 Three Hundred Important Combinations- 
Chart No. 39.—Born on 1-9-1897 at 8-35 p.m. (L.M.T.) at 
10° 58° NL; 79° 29 E. 


Lagna 
Rahu 


Mercury 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth : years 3-8-8. 


In Chart No. 39 the Sth, 6th and 7th are occupied 
by Jupiter, Mercury and the Moon respectively. 
Jupiter is in his own Amsa and the Moon and Mer- 
cury in friendly Amsas so that Kurma Yoga is 
formed. But much of the efficacy is carried away 
because of the presence of malefics in the Sth and 
6th. The subject has risen from humble circumstan- 
ces but is somewhat unscrupulous. 


55. Devendra Yoga 


Definition—--When Lagna is a fixed sign, the lords 
of the Lagna and the eleventh interchange their 
houses and the lord of the 2nd is in the 10th and vice 
versa, the combination is called Devendra Yoga. 


Devendra Yoga 83 


Results Handsome appearance, romantic, un- 
sullied reputation, builder of fortifications, comman- 
der of armies and good longevity. 

Remarks.—Devendra is supposed to be the king 
of all celestials and the Yoga named after him is ex- 
pected to usher into this world aman of sterling 
character, ruler or an equal to him, successful com- 
mander and a powerful monarch. Though all these 
results may not be produced, at least some of them 
must be present. The requirements are the Lagna 
must always be a fixed sign and its lord should be in 
11th, while the 1 [th lord should be in Lagna and the 
2nd and 10th lords should exchange their houses. 
Two Parivarthana Yogas are therefore implied. It 
must be noted that mere exchange of houses is not 
enough to produce the Yoga. The lords must be 


really powerful. 


56. Makuta Yoga 


Definition.—If Jupiter is in the 9th from the 9th 
lord, a benefic is in the 9th from Jupiter and Saturn 
is in the 10th, Makuta is caused. 

Results —A king or head of forest tribes or hun- 
ters, powerful, evil-minded and a successful sports- 
man. 

Remarks.—My Research Department, which is 
engaged in the statistical analysis of thousands of 
horoscopes, has been able to discern that Makuta 
Yoga is afeature in 6to 7 out of every 10 horos- 
copes belonging to petty chiefs, conservators of 


a Three Hundred Important Combinations 


forests, and leaders of forest tribes and gangs. In 
order to control such unruly gangs, one will have to 
be cruel and hence seems to be the suggestion that 
Saturn be in the 10th or house of actions. 


57. Chandika Yoga 


Definition.— lf the lord of the Navamsa occupied 
by the lord of the 6th and the lord of the Navamsa 
occupied by the lord of the 9th combine with the 
Sun and if the Lagna being a fixed sign is aspected 
by the lord of the 6th, Chandika Yoga is caused. 

Results. —The person will be aggressive, chari- 
table, wealthy, minister or an equal to him, will have 
a long and happy life and fame. 

Remarks.—The definition is somewhat compli- 
cated. Both lords of the Navamsas occupied by the 
lord of the 6th and 9th should be associated with the 
Sun, the Lagna should receive the aspect of the 6th 
lord and the Lagna must bea fixed sign. Here a 
conglomeration of good and evil forces are blended 
so that the net result is a good Yoga. The evil atten- 
dant upon the 6th lordship seems to lose its effect in 
the face of the Navamsa lord association. The native 
will be highly war-like and aggressive because of the 
element of the 6th lordship. Chandika can happen 
with reference to only four signs, viz., Taurus, Leo, 
Scorpio and Aquarius. Movable and common signs 
have nothing to do with this Yoga. Chandika Yoga 
seems to make for political power. 


58 Jaya Yoga 


Definition.—When the lord of the 6th is debilita- 
ted and the lord of the 10th is deeply exalted Jaya 
Yoga will arise. 

Results.—The native will be happy, victorious 
over his enemies, successful in all his ventures and 
long-lived. 

Remarks.—As the name implies, Jaya Yoga gives 
success in all undertakings. If the Yoga is really 
powerful, the person will hardly meet with failures 
or disappointments. The 6th is a Dusthana and when 
the lord is debilitated, then all the indications of the 
sixth house, viz., debts, disease and enemies will be 
at a discount so that all the obstructive forces in the 
way of the person’s prosperity will have been re- 
moved. The lord of the 10th or house of effort, occu- 
pation and deeds will have to be in deep exaltation. 
Otherwise, the yoga cannot have its full value. 

Chart No. 40.—Born on 21-4-1867 at 9-30 p.m. Lat. 13° N.; 
Long. 77° 34° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Mercury] Moon 


86 Three Hundred [mportant Combinations 


In Chart No. 40 the lord of the 6th Mars is 
debilitated and the lord of the 10th Sun is in deep 
exaltation. Hence this is a distinct case of Jaya Yoga. 
But the Yoga has lost much of the effect because the 
Sun’s exaltation has occurred in the sixth and both 
the Lagna and the Moon are associated with Saturn. 
The 6th lord is no doubt Neecha, but since he 
happens to be lord of Lagna also, the disposition is 
not desirable. 

In Chart No. 41, the lord of the 6th Mercury is 
debilitated while the lord of the 10th Saturn is exal- 
ted, definitely causing Jaya Yoga. The horoscope is 
that of a great religious leader and prophet who in- 
fluenced the world in no ordinary way. He is one of 
the most extraordinary characters in the stage of the 
world’s religious drama. He had to deal with very 
rough and uncontrollable elements and the Jaya 
Yoga seemsto have gone a long way in enabling 
him to enlist the sympathies of millions of people for 
his cause. There are of course other strong elements 
in the horoscope. 


Vaya Yoga 87 


Chart No. 41 —Born on 25-2-1894 at about 8-SS a.m. Lat. 
18° 32° N.; Long. 73° 53° E. 


Mercury Lagna | Jupiter 
Rahu 


Sun 
Venus 


ss NAVAMSA 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth: years 1-1-15. 


59. Vidyut Yoga 


Definition —When the 11th lord is in deep exal- 
tation and joins Venus in a Kendra from the lord of 
Lagna, Vidyut Yoga is caused. 

Results.—Charitable, pleasure-loving, a treasurer 
or controller of wealth and a great king or an equal 
to him. 

Remarks.—Depending upon the exact strength 
of the two lords causing the yaga, the person will 
either be a king or an equal to him. He will control 
wealth and he will be a man of generous instincts. 
Here Venus, the 11th lord and lord of Lagna are 
required to be disposed in a particular manner. 
Venus is the planet of pleasure and comforts, where- 
as the lord of the Ith indicates gains. Naturally 


88 Three Hundred Important Combimations 


when the Lagna is strong and the house of gains and 
lord of comforts and luxuries is equally strong one 
is bound to be well off in life. 


60. Gandharva Yoga 


Definition. —If the 10th lord is in a Kama Thri- 
kona, the lord of Lagna and Jupiter are in assccia- 
tion, the Sun being strong, is exalted and the Moon 
occupies the 9th, Gandharva Yoga arises. 

Results—The person will attain unparalleled 
skill in fine arts, will be strong, will be pleasure- 
loving, will be well-dressed, will become famous and 
will live upto 68 years. 

Remarks.—Gandharva Yoga as the name implies 
makes one a connoisseur in fine arts such as music, 
dancing, painting, etc. Kama Thrikona means the 
trinal houses from the 7th, viz., 7th, 11th and 3rd. 
The 10th lord must occupy one of these houses in 
conjunction with Jupiter, the Sun being strong 
should be exalted and the Moon should remain in 
the 9th house. If all these conditions are present, then 
the Yoga will be in full swing. Otherwise, a trace of 
the Yoga may be present rendering the person take 
some interest in these arts, but not make him an 
adept. 


61. Siva Yoga 


Definition.—If the lord of the 5th is in the 9th, 
the lord of the 9th is in the 10th and the lord of the 
10th is in the 5th. Siva Yoga is caused. 

Results.—The person will be a big trader, a con- 
queror and commander of armies; he will possess 
divine wisdom and will lead a virtuous life. 

Remarks.—The combination seems to be simple 
but full of significance. The 5th and 9th are power- 
ful trikonas and the 10th is a powerful kendra. Dis- 
position of the lords of these three in a particular 
order as adumbrated in this combination fortifies 
the houses of fortune and Karma so that the person 
is supposed to becomea beneficiary in respect of 
fortune, trade, philosophical knowledge and othey 
activities. In estimating the strength of this yoga, 
due importance must be given to the mutual rela- 
tions of the lords of the 9th, Sth and 10th. Thus, in 
respect of Mesha Lagna, Siva Yoga can be caused 
by the presence of the 5th lord (Sun) -in the 9th, and 
Saturn in the 10th or 5th, because of the ownership 
of the two adjoining houses by Saturn. The Sun 
being placed in the 9th, and Saturn in the 10th, is 
astronger Siva Yogathan the Sun and Saturn ex- 
changing their houses. In the latter circumstance 
whilst no doubt Siva Yoga is caused by the Sun 
(lord of the 5th) occupying the 10th (a house of 
Saturn) and Saturn (lord of the 10th) occupying the 
5th, both the planets are such bitter enemies that the 


90 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


combination, though on account of Parivarthana 
between the 5th and 10th lords some kind of Yoga 
is generated, is full of evil indications. In other 
words, Siva Yoga, as far as this writer’s study goes, 
is not of much consequence in respect of Mesha 
Lagna unless both the Sun and Saturn have acquired 
sufficient Moolathrikonadi Bala. 


62. Vishnu Yoga 


Definition.—-If the lord of Navamsa in which the 
9th lord is placed, and the 10th lord joins the 2nd 
house in conjunction with the 91h lord, Vishnu Yoga 
is caused. 

Results —The person will lead an enjoyable life, 
acquire fortunes from various countries, earn in 
lakhs, will be strong, well-versed in discussions, witty 
in conversations, a worshipper of Vishnu, praised by 
the rulers and will live upto one hundred years free 
from disease. 

Remarks.—All the results attributed to the Yoga 
may not happen. But the native will enjoy most of 
the blessings of Vishnu Yoga. The Navamsa in which 
the 9th lord is placed plays an important part in the 
formation of this yoga. If per chance such a lord of 
the Navamsa happens to be the strongest planet, 
having obtained the requisite quantity of shadbala, 
then the Yoga will operate practically throughout 
life. I know an instance of Vishnu Yoga operating 
powerfully in the horoscope of a close associate of 


Vishnu Yoga 91 


mine. But unfortunately, the lord of the Amsa occu- 
pied by the 9th lord happened to be Saturn and his 
shadbala strength was not much. Consequently, the 
Yoga could operate with certain restrictions, the 
various results happening on a moderate scale. 

Tn all such cases, where big results are attributed 
to yogas, the astrologer should be very careful in 
assessing the real strength of the main lord causing 
the Yoga. The combination of the 9th and 10th lords 
constitutes in itself a powerful Raja Yoga and this 
occurring in the 2nd, combined with the Amsa lord, 
is indeed a powerful Dhana Yoga so that there is a 
blending of Rajaand Dhana Yogas. The combination 
implies that the 2nd house must be occupied by at 
least three planets and hence not of very frequent 
occurrence. 


Chart No. 42.—Born on 1-10-1901 at 6-48 a.m. (L.M.T.) at 
13° N ; 77° 35° E. 


Jupiter 
Lagna 


Venus 
Mercury |Lagna 

Mars Sun Merc. 
| Rahu ed 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Balance of Venus Dasa at birth : years 1-7-6. 


In Chart No. 42 the lord of the 9th Venus is in 
Taurus Amsa. The lord of this Amsa is again Venus. 


Taree Hundred Important Combinations 


He is in the second along with the 10th lord and he 
himself happens to be the 9th lord. Hence Vishnu 
Yoga is present though it cannot have full play be- 
cause of Rahu’s presence also in the 2nd. The horos- 
cope is that of an influential man of high rank. 
Chart No. 43.— Born on 21-2-1879 at 4-58 a.m. (L.M.T.) at 


13° C0 N.; 77° 35° E. 
| natu | 


NAVAMSA 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Kethu 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth: years 15-10-19. 


In Chart No. 43, Vishnu Yoga is more pro- 
nounced. Venus happens not only to be the lord of 
the 10th but also lord of the Amsa occupied by the 
9th lord Mercury. Both Mercury and Venus are in 
the 2nd. The native enjoyed almost all the blessings 
of this Yoga. He earned in lakhs. He was in the 
good books of some of the Indian princes and the 
British Government, was highly learned, a brilliant 
statesman and a capable lawyer. 


63. Brahma Yoga 


Definition.—If Jupiter and Venus are in Kendras 
respectively from the lords of the 9th and 11th, and 
Mercury is in a similar position from the lord of 
either Lagna or the 10th, Brahma Yoga is caused. 

Results.—The person will enjoy luxurious foods, 
will be respected by Brahmins and learned men, will 
be highly learned, long-lived, charitable and always 
bent on doing good deeds. 

Remarks.—The Yoga in question seems to bestow 
highly beneficial results implying that the native 
would command health, wealth, fame and above all 
instincts for serving others. It will be seen that in 
the formation of this Yoga, all the natural benefics are 
involved. Even here, the exact strength and significa- 
tion of the Yoga rests to a large extent upon a 
number of other horoscopic factors. For Mesha 
Lagna, for example this yoga cannot be deemed to 
be formed in all its aspects inasmuch as lord of the 
9th is Jupiter so that Jupiter’s disposition in a 
Kendra from the 9th lord is entirely ruled out. 

Similarly when Cancer is the Lagna, two condi- 
tions of the yoga would be absent as lords of the 9th 
and 11th respectively become Jupiter and Venus. 
Again if Lagna is Virgo or Sagittarius the yoga can- 
not be full, because in regard to Virgo. Mercury 
becomes lord of the 10th while in regard to Sagit- 
tarius, Mercury and Venus become lords of the 10th 
and 11th so that the disposition of Venus and Mer- 


94 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


cury respectively in kendras from the lords of the 
11th and 10th is not possible. So far as Dhanus is 
concerned, in the place of the 10th lord, lord of 
Lagna may be considered. Therefore we may assume 
that Brahma Yoga is possible to the full extent in 
respect of all the signs except Aries, Cancer and 
Virgo. However, it does not seem erroneous to 
assume that even in respect of Aries, Cancer and 
Virgo, this yoga could be deemed to be present with 
a slight modification. If, say, three factors are 
necessary to make up acertain yoga, the presence 
of even one or two cannot but suggest that the yoga 
does operate, may be feeble. 

Chart No. 44.—BSorn on’ 7-5-1886 at 2-30 p.m. Lat. 40° 
24' N.; Long. 3h. 4lin. W. 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth: years 10-4-22. 


In Chart No. 44, Jupiter is in a kendra from the 
lord of the 9th, viz., Venus. Venus isin a kendra from 
the lord ofthe 11th, viz., the Moon. The third combi- 
nation cannot obtain because Virgo is Lagna. There- 
fore Brahma Yoga is present with a slight variation. 


indra Yoga 95 


The native of the horoscope was a ruler of an Indian 
State and enjoyed all the results attributed to this 
yoga. This may be taken as a rare combination 
occurring in a very small number of horoscopes. 


64. Indra Yoga 


Definition.-—lf the lords of the Sth and J [th inter- 
change their houses and the Moon is in the Sth, 
Indra Yoga is caused. 

Results. Highly courageous, lasting fame, a 
King of Kings, good enjoyments and living upto 36 
years. 

Remarks.—Unless the house of longevity is 
powerful, one has to assume that Indra Yoga does 
not confer longevity. Professor Rao has offered 
very suggestive remarks on his Sata Yoga Manjari in 
suggesting that Christ, Shankara and Alexander are 
examples of short life but of lasting name and [ 
would refer the readers to these notes. Though 
classical writers have attributed highly favourable 
results to this Yoga, J have my own doubts. 


65. Ravi Yoga 


Definition.—The Sun should join the 10th and 
the lord of the 10th must be in the 3rd in conjunc- 
tion with Saturn. 


96 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results.—Respected by rulers, well-versed in 
sciences, becoming famous after the 15th year, highly 
passionate, liking simple food, possessing lotus-like 
eyes and well-developed chest. 

Remarks.—Each rule has an exception. Whilst 
Saturn’s association with any favourable horoscopic 
element is not desirable, under this Yoga, the 10th 
lord should occupy the third in conjunction with 
Saturn. In the course of his Dasa, Saturn, under 
such a combination, would be capable of giving high- 
ly favourable results. Ravi Yoga comprehends a point 
of contact between the Sun, Saturn, the 10th and 
3rd houses. The Sun should occupy the 10th, while 
the 10th lord should be in the third with Saturn. 
For Mesha, Vrishabha and Vrischika Lagnas, Ravi 
Yoga cannot at all be said to exist in its real sense. 

For Dhanus, Makara, Simha and Kanya Lagnas, 
Ravi Yoga would be almost impossible because in 
these cases the 10th lord happens to be either Mer- 
cury or Venus; when the Sun is in the 10th, Mercury 
or Venus cannot bein the 3rd from Lagna as it implies 
a distance of nearly 150 to 180 degrees from the Sun 
which is astronomically impossible. In view of the 
above explanations, one can easily see that Ravi 
Yoga is indeed of rare occurrence. 


Ravi Yoga 97 


Chart No. 45.—Born on 21-3-1921 at 12 noon (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 10° N. ; Long. 77° 34° E. 


RAVAMSA 


Jupiter 


Balance of Kethu’s Dasa at birth: years 4-9-10. 


In Chart No. 45, the 10this occupied by the Sun, 
the 10th lord Jupiter is in the 3rd, viz., Leo with 
Saturn. 

This chart is therefore typically illustrative of 
Ravi Yoga. Of course, the merits of the chart cannot 
be judged merely upon this single Yoga. 


66. Garuda Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of Navamsa occupied by 
the Moon should be exalted and birth should occur 
during daytime when the Moon is waxing. 

Results.—Respected by the pious, polished speech, 
feared by the enemies, strong and facing danger 
from poison in the 34th year. 


7 


98 Three Hundred [mportant Combinations 


Remarks.—Importance is given to the Moon. 
The lord of the Moon’s Navamsa should be exalted. 
The Yoga cannot occur in regard to people born dur- 
ing night times or when the Moon is waning. Why the 
native should meet with danger from poison in his 34th 
year is not at all clear. A lot of practical experience 
must have guided the framers of this combination in 
coming to the conclusions they have done. The 
danger should not be predicted when the house of 
longevity is strong enough. 


Chart No. 46.—Born on 15-9-1861 at about 2-20 p.m. 


Jupiter 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth ; years 3-1-24. 


Chart No. 46 belongs to a day birth. The birth has 
taken place in the bright half of the lunar month. 
The Moon is in Gemini Navamsa and the lord, 
viz., Mercury is exalted. The horoscope is that of a 
great Indian engineer and statesman of international 
fame. His manners and speech were extremely 
polished and he had perhaps alk the qualifications of 
the Yoga in question. Ina science like astrology, a 


Go Yoga 99 


combination or Yoga should be adapted to fit into the 
particular horoscope as no yoga can have absolute 
sway. 


67. Go Yoga 


Definition —Strong Jupiter should occupy his 
Moolathrikona with the lord of the 2nd house and 
the lord of Lagna should be in exaltation. 

Results Hailing from a respectable family, a 
king or an equal to him, wealthy and strong. 

Remarks.—Jupiter is Dhanakaraka or indicator 
of wealth. He should occupy his Moolathrikona with 
the lord of the 2nd and the ascendant lord must 
remain in exaltation. 

The Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, 
Venus and Saturn, respectively have, as their Moola- 
thrikonas, Leo, Taurus, Aries, Virgo, Sagittarius, 
Libra and Aquarius. For Scorpio and Aquarius, 
since the second happens to be owned by Jupiter, 
the question of association with the second lord 
does not arise. 

Jupiter’s Moolathrikona being confined to the 
first thirteen degrees of Sagittarius, Go Yoga can be 
present only in respect of those born when Jupiter 
occupies his particular arc in the heavens. In other 
words, this yoga, unlike Gajakesari, Vasi or Vesi, 
is subject to a law of periodicity, coming into effect 
only when Jupiter occupies the constellation of 

Moola. 


100 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 47.—Born on 2-1-1901 at 8p.m. (L.M.T.) at 
12? $8° N.: 77° 34 E. 


Jupiter | Mercury 


NAVAMSA 


Saturn 
Sun Venus 


Mercury | Rahu 
Jupiter 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 2-5-21. 


In Chart No. 47, Cancer is Lagna, the 2nd lord 
Sun is in Sagittarius with Jupiter who, being placed 
in Moola, occupies his own Moolathrikona. Lord of 
Lagna, viz., the Moon is exalted. Hence Go Yoga is 
present in the horoscope. Of course, the Moon’s 
conjunction with Kethu and Saturn’s presence in 
Sagittarius have produced an adverse influence so 
that the yoga cannot be effective. The example is 
only illustrative of the presence of the particular 
yoga. 


68. Gola Yoga 


Definition. —\f the Full Moon is in the 9th in 
conjunction with Jupiter and Venus, and Mercury 
joins Navamsa Lagna, Gola Yoga is produced. 


Thrilochana Yoga 101 


Resufts.—Polite, learned, Magistrate or head of 
a village, long-lived and eating wholesome food. 

Remarks.—The yoga can come into effect provi- 
ded the Moon is full and not otherwise. Mercury 
must occupy Navamsa Lagna. Sucha Full Moon 
should bein the 9th with Jupiter and Venus. In 
other words, even Gajakesari Yoga gets merged into 
Gola, inasmuch as when Jupiter and the Moon are 
in conjunction, they would be supposed to be ina 
kendra from each other, 


69. Thrilochana Yoga 


Definition —The Sun, the Moon and Mars should 
be in trines from each other. 

Results. —Great wealth, a terror to his enemies, 
highly intelligent and good longevity. 

Remarks.—Itrespective of the presence of any 
particular kind of Yoga, dispositions of planets in 
mutual trines is always held to be highly favourable. 
One born in such a combination will have a smooth 
career and will not have to cdntend against un- 
favourable forces. 


70. Kulavardhana Yoga 


Definition All planets should be in the Sth 
from Lagna, the Sun and the Moon. 


102 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results.— Unbroken line of successors. wealthy, 
healthy and long-lived. 

Remarks.— As the name implies, one born when 
the benefics are disposed in Sth from Lagna, the Sun 
and the Moon will have plenty of children and the 
family traditions will be perpetuated by his children, 
grand-children and so on in an unbroken fashion. 
The fifth house becomes the focal point. The man 
will also be capable of producing a large number of 
children. 


71 to 102. Nabhasa Yogas 


Varaha Mihira has dealt with these various 
yogas in his immortal Brikat Jataka and the English 
rendering of this work by the late Prof. B. Surya- 
narain Rao would be of inestimabie help to students 
of astrology. The Yavanas have treated Nabhasa 
Yogas extensively. 

The Nabhasa Yogas consist of four groups, viz., 


Akriti Yogas ... 20 
Sankhya Yogas | 
Asraya Yogas : 3 
Dala Yogas a (OD 

32 


According to Varaha Mihira, the effects of 
Nabhasa Yogas are said to be felt throughout one’s 
life and not merely during the Dasa and Bhukthi 
periods of the planets causing the Yoga. 


Nabhasa Yogas 103 


71. Yupa Yoga 
72. Ishu Yoga 
73. Sakti Yoga 
74. Danda Yoga 

Definition.—When all the planets occupy four 
signs contiguously from the Lagna and other kendras 
respectively Yupa, Ishu, Sakti and Danda Yogas are 
caused. 

Results.—One born in Yupa becomes liberal, 
self-possessed and noted for charitable deeds. Ishu 
makes one successful as a superintendent or head of 
a jail, concentration camp, etc., Sakti renders the 
native lazy, slothful, devoid of riches, and generally 
disliked by people and Danda suggests that the per- 
son will lack happiness due from wife and children. 

Remarks.—These four yogas arise by virtue of 
the seven planets being disposed in four contiguous 
houses as reckoned from the Ascendant and other 
kendras. Thus if all the planets are placed in Lagna, 
2nd, 3rd and 4th houses, Yupa is caused; in 4th, 
Sth, 9th and 7th, Ishu or Sara is produced; in 7th, 
8th, 9th and 10th, Sakti is caused and in the 10th, 
11th, 12th and 1st Danda is caused. 

Personally, we are of opinion that all these 
various Akriti Yogas do not contribute much to the 
making of the horoscope. In fact they seem to give 
rise to clues as regards the means of livelihood one 
is likely to have. Thus, for instance, Ishu Yoga, said 
to be caused by the seven planets occupying the 4th, 
Sth, 6th and 7th houses, is common in the horoscopes 
of persons, who may have anything to do with 
prisons, lock-ups, concentration camps, etc. Of 


104 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


course these deductions are based on our own obser- 
vations and readers have to view them with due 
reserve. 

In Chart No. 48, all the planets have occupied 
the four signs contiguously from Lagna kendra 
causing Yupa Yoga while in Chart No. 49, the dis- 
position of planets in the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th in a 
contiguous manner suggests the presence of Ishu 
Yoga. Whether the various Nabhasa Yogas can have 
an independent effect on the horoscope or whether 
they get mixed up with other Yogas, we shall discuss 
on a subsequent occasion. Now suffice it to say that 
they will have important bearings on certain aspects 
of one’s life depending upon the stress that is laid 
on particular bhavas by the dispositions of planets 
in or around them. : 


Chart No. 48.—Born on 1-10-1945 at Tam. (I.S.T.) 
Lat, 18° 52° N. ; Long. 72° 35° E. 


Sup 
Mercury | Lagna 
| Jupiter 


Mars 


Saturn 
Kethu 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth : years 3-8-5. 


Nabhasa Yogas 105 


Chart No. 49.—Born on 28-8-1921 at 8-30 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 6° N. ; Long. 80° 10° E. 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth: years 12-7-22. 


Out of the four yogas mentioned above, Yupa 
and Danda are better than Ishu and Sakti because in 
the latter two, planets are about to culminate or 
about to set. 

75. Nav Yoga 
76. Kuta Yoga 
77. Chhatra Yoga 
78. Chapa Yoga 


Definition.—By virtue of the disposition of the 
seven planets in seven contiguous houses from 
Lagna, 4th house, 7th house and 10th house respec- 
tively Nav, Kuta, Chhatra and Chapa Yogas are 
produced. 

Results —Nav makes one occasionally happy, 
famous and miserly; one born in Kuta becomes a 
liar and a jailor. Chhatra Yoga produces a happy 
individual while one born in Chapa becomes brave 
and happy in the first and last periods of his life. 


106 Three Hundred important Combinations 


Remarks.—The above definitions are simple. The 
seven planets should occupy the seven houses with- 
outa break from Lagna, 4th house, 7th and 10th 
houses respectively to produce the four kinds of 
yogas. Apart from the results ascribed by the classi- 
cal writers, we may make a few observations. 

In regard to Nav Yoga (75), all the planets will 
be in the invisible sphere of the heavens. It seems to 
be generally productive of good and to have a 
bearing on the native having to do with water, 
watery places and aquatic substances. 

In regard to Kuta, when all the planets will be 
in the seven houses from the fourth, it will be more 
or less an equal distribution of planets in the visible 
halves of the zodiac. The native may frequent caves, 
mountains, etc., and hé willbe addicted to evil 
habits. Robbers, drunkards. cheats and others may 
have this combination. In Chhatra Yoga, all the 
planets will be in the visible half and hence may be 
deemed to be favourable. The native will be happy 
in the beginning and end of his life. He will possess 
great strength of mind and will earn much wealth. 
In Chapa Yoga all the planets will be inthe 10th 
and subsequent houses and one born in this yoga 
will lead a comfortable life delighting in good deeds. 


79 Ardha Chandra Yoga 


Definition All the planets should occupy the 
seven houses beginning from a Panapara or Apoklima. 

Results—The native will have fair features and 
will be happy throughout life. 


Nabhasa Yogas 107 


Remarks.--There are four Panaparas (cadent 
houses) and four Apoklimas (succeedent houses). 
Consequently there are eight kinds of Ardha Chandra 
Yogas, the planets occupying (i) from 2nd to 8th, 
(ii) 3rd to 9th, (iii) Sth to I1th, (iv) 6th to 12th, 
(v) 8th to 2nd, (vi) 9th to 3rd, (vii) 11th to Sth and 
(viii) 12th to 6th. 


80. Chandra Yoga 


Definition —All the planets should occupy the 
ist, 3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th houses. 

Results.—-The subject will be a king or an equal 
to him. He will command respect and submission 
from others and he will earn and spend well. 

Remarks.—On page 114 we have deait with Samu- 
dra Yoga which is said to result by all the planets 
occupying the even houses, whereas in this regard, 
all the odd houses must be occupied. The combination 
is not a rare one. So far as the results are concerned, 
the Yoga cannot produce rulers or emperors, but 
one who has this combination would certainly 
become an entity amongst his own people. 


81. Gada Yoga 
82. Sakata Yoga 
83. Vihaga Yoga 


Definition —Alfthe planets occupying two adja- 
cent kendras, the ist and 7th houses, and the 4th and 
10th houses respectively will produce Gada, Sakata 
and Vihaga Y ogas. 


108 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results —Gada Yoga makes one highly religious 
and wealthy; Sakata renders one poor and unhappy 
in domestic life; and one born in Vihaga will be a 
vagrant, quarrelsome and mean. 

Remarks.—A_ study of Nabhasa Yogas outlined 
in Brikat Jataka and the comments made by Varaha 
Mihira clearly reveal that attempts had been made 
to assess clearly the strength due to every conceivable 
combination. 

Gada Yoga is caused when the planets occupy two 
successive kendras. Four varieties are to be seen in 
this, viz., (a) allthe planets may occupy the Ist and 
4th houses, (6) 4th and 7th houses, (c) 7th and 10th 
houses and (d) 10th and Ist houses. The Yavanas 
consider these as four distinct Yogas and not merely 
as variations of a single combination and call them 
as Gada, Sanaha, Vibhuka and Dhuriya respectively. 
It is clear from the above that Gada Yoga and its 
variations are nothing but the disposition of all the 
planets in mutual square aspects. Of course Rahu and 
Kethu are omitted. The effects of Gada Yoga are 
assumed to be good so that the Western astrological 
theory, that square aspects are all evil, has no 
warrant in Hindu astrology. 

Sakata Yoga is said to arise by the disposition of 
all the planets in the Lagna and the 7th. It will be 
seen that the Ist and 7th houses become /focii of 
attraction so that there seems to be justification in 
attributing evil results especially pertaining to the 
native’s body and wife. Sakata will make one derive 
his livelihood by manual labour ; he will be sickly 
and his wife will be quarrelsome. 


Nabhasa Yogas to9 


Vihaga means a bird and Vihaga Yoga is caused 
if all the planets are in the 4th and 10th houses. Evil 
results are attributed to this combination. The native 
is said to be a vagrant and in modern parlance the 
yoga must be common in the horoscopes of travel- 
ling agents or guards of trains who are required tobe 
always moving. One who has a powerful Vihaga 
Yoga is said to become a tale-bearer also. 

It is evident that the ancient writers have attribu- 
ted evil results for opposition aspects though certain 
yogas such as Gajakesari must have been treated as 
exception. The results due to single yoga or a combi- 
nation of yogas are always dependent upon the 
inherent strength of the horoscope. 

In Chart No. 50. all the planets are in the 4th and 
10th houses so that it is a typical illustration of 
Vihaga Yoga. 

Chart No. S0.~—Born on 2-11-1910 at] p.m. Lat. 13° N.; 


Long. 77° 35° E. 


Rahu | Kethu 
Saturn 


Lagna 
Mer jup. 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at birth: years 15-3-26. 


110 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


84. Vajra Yoga 
85. Yava Yoga 


Definition —Benefics occupying the ascendant 
and the 7th house, while malefics occupying the 4th 
and the 10th give rise to Vajra Yoga; the reverse will 
be the case in Yava Yoga. 

Results.—Vajra gives rise to a happy and hand- 
some person; Yava makes one happy in his middle 
life. 
Remarks.—The difference between Vajra and 
Yava Yogas is very thin. In the former, benefics will 
found in the ascendant and the descendant, and male- 
fics in the meridian and the nadir while in other, the 
Lagna and the descendant must have malefics and the 
meridian and the nadir should have benefics. Even 
in the production of results the difference between 
the two yogas is hardly worth attention, for while 
Vajra makes one fair, brave and happy, the effects of 
Yava are restricted to a particular period of life. yiz., 
the middle portion. If one makes a serious attempt 
to study a number of horoscopes, he will not be slow 
in appreciating one important truth, viz., that Yava 
Yoga is hardly conducive to the health and bodily 
happiness of the native or his wife, for if malefics 
occupy the Lagna and the 7th, their effects, unless 
counterbalanced by other horoscopic factors, such as 
more powerful yogas or inherent strength, etc., would 
necessarily converge on these two houses. These two 
yogas are not after all very important, because often- 
times their influences become merged with those of 
other powerful yogas. 


Nabhasa Yogas 1 


Chart No. 51 illustrates Vajra Yoga because 
Lagna is occupied by Jupiter and the 7th by Venus, 
the 4th by the Sun and the 10th by Saturn and 
Mars. Chart No. 52 is a distinct case of Yava Yoga. 

Chart No. 51. Chart No. 52. 


Lagna 
Jupiter | Raho 


Moon 


Saturn 
Mars 


Kethu Venus 


86. Sringhataka Yoga 
87. Hala Yoga 


Definition.—lf all the planets occupy the ascen- 
dant and its trinesSringhataka is caused. If planets are 
confined to other triangular houses, Hala Yoga arises. 

Results —One born in Sringhataka becomes 
happy in later life while Hala Yoga makes one an 
agriculturist. 

Remarks.—Sringhataka may mean junction of 
four roads or a square. Planets must invariably occu- 
py the Ist, Sth and 9th houses. Lagna represents 
body, the Sth indicates progeny and the 9th suggests 
fortune in general. If these three houses are well 
fortified, then the native will have a smooth career, 
progeny and success in life. One born in Sringhataka 


112 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


is said to be happy in his later life. With due deference 
to the sages who have attributed this result, I have 
to observe that the period of happiness depends upon 
the stress laid onany one of the trines by virtue of a 
larger number of benefics being placed in it. Thus if 
the stress is on the Lagna, the beginning of life will be 
happy ; if in the 5th, the middle part of life; and if 
in the 9th, the last part. This is a simple observation 
that any student of astrology could conveniently 
carry on. 

Chart No. 53 is an example of Sringhataka Yoga. 

Chart No. 53.—Born on 28/29-4-1901, at 4-47 a.m. Lat. 32° 
10° N. ; Long. 74° 15' E. 


! Lagna 


Mercury 
Venus Kethu 


Sun 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years 2-6-27. 

Hala implies a plough. Consistent with this mean- 
ing, Hala Yoga is said to make one an agriculturist. 
Three variations can be seen in this Yoga, all the pla- 
nets may occupy (a) the 2nd, 6th and 10th houses, (5) 
the 3rd, 7th and !Jth houses and (c) the 4th, 8th and 
12th houses. Hala Yoga would be helpful in deciding 
one’s profession, for a number of horoscopes possess- 


Nabhasa Yogas 113 


ing this combination, belong to agriculturists, far- 
mers, estate managers, zamindars and petty land- 
lords. 


88. Kamala Yoga 
89. Vapee Yoga. 


Definition Kamala Yoga will result when the 
planets are situated in the four kendras, while Vapee 
is caused when they are ranged in the four Panaparas 
or the four Apoklimas. 

Chart No. 54.—Born on 25-7-1896 ut 10-S2a.m.Lat 18° 55° 
N, ; Long. 72° 54 E. 


Satum | Kethu 


Rahu 


NAVAMSA 


Moon 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 4-4-24. 


Results —One born in Kamala will not become 
much wealthy, but he will command high prestige, 
wide fame and innumerable virtues. Vapee makes 
one hoarder of money. 

Remarks.—Kamala Y oga is practically the same 
as Chathussagara Yoga though not synonymous with 


it. Kendras are strongholds in a horoscope and when 
8 


W4 Three Hundred Important Combmations 


all the four kendras are occupied, the horoscope is ren- 
dered highly powerfui. Kamala Yoga lays emphasis on 
fame, virtue, and prestige as different from mere earn- 
ing capacity. Vapee. which means a well. on the 
other hand, is said to make one mean, trickery and 
always pine for and hoard wealth. Panaparas are the 
2nd, Sth, 8th, and t!th and Apoklimas are 3rd, 6th, 
9th and 12th. The planets should occupy exclusively 
all the Panaparas or all the Apoklimas, 

In Chart No. 54 all the planets are disposed in 
Panaparas, It is a typical example for Vapee Yoga. 


90. Samadura Yoga 


Definition. —All the planets must occupy the six 
even houses. 

Results.—The native will be a ruler or live like 
him free from care and worry. 

Remarks.—This is indeed a somewhat rare com- 
bination because all the seven planets have to occupy 
six alternate signs beginning from the second. All 
odd houses reckoned from Lagna should be free from 
occupation. 

This is one of the several Akriti Yogas dealt with 
by the great Varahamihira. In our humble experience. 
Akriti Yogas by themselves cannot exercise any defi- 
nite influences unless the horoscope has gained 
strength otherwise. 

With this.we complete the 21 Akriti Yogas, com- 
prising the first of the 4 groups of Nabhasa Yogas. 
Yogas like Vajra and Yava which require the posi- 
tions of the planets exclusively in kendras do not seem 


Nabhasa Yogas ns 


to have the approval of Varahamihira. He deals with 
them in his Brihat Jataka simply adopting the views 
of Yavana and others and feels sceptical about their 
possibility with the query ‘How can Mercury and 
Venus occupy the 4th sign (Bhavana) from the Sun?” 
The possibility or otherwise of Vajra, Yavaand simi- 
lar yogas which require mutual angular dispositions 
of the Sun and Mercury and Venus depends upon 
whether these yogas refer to the positions of planets 
in the Rasi Chakra or Bhava Chakra. If the former, 
as isclearly implied by the letter Bhavana used by 
Mihira which means a sign, then the Sun can never 
be ina Kendra from Mercury or Venus. If on the 
other hdnd, the reference is to Bhava Chakra as 
some scholars contend, then Mercury can occupy a 
kendra bhava from the Sun, which could be possible 
in very high latitudes. Therefore the ancient writers 
have not erred if the Vajra and Yava Yogas refer to 
the positions in the Bhava Chakra. 


91. Vallaki Yoga 


Definition.—Ali the planets must occupy any 
seven signs. 

Results——The person will have a large number of 
friends, fond of music and fine arts, learned, happy 
and famous. 

Remarks —This is the first of the Sankhya Yogas 
or numerical combinations. Vallaki is also known as 
Veena Yoga. All the seven planets should bedisposed 
of in any seven signs. It will be seen, as would be 
shown subsequently that sometimes Sankhya Yogas 


116 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


actually coincide with Akriti Yogas (already discussed 
above). In such cases, Sankhya Yogas lose their 
individuality and they should not be considered at 
all. There seems to be some justification in adopting 
this course, because in almost every horoscope since 
all the seven planets will have to occupy any seven, 
or less than seven Rasis, Sankhya Yoga must be pre- 
sent in some form or the other. Provided no other 
Nabhasa Yoga is present, then alone Sankhya Yogas 
have to be reckoned. Vallaki and the six other Yogas 
to follow, belong to the category of Sankhya Yogas. 

Chart No. 55.— Born on 10-8-1937 at 4-57 am. Lat. 7°N., 
Long. 79° 45° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Saturn | Mercury! Mars 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 5-10-15. 


The above is a typical illustration of Vallaki or 
Veena Yoga for all the seven planets (Rahu and 
Kethu excepted) have occupied any seven Rasis. 
Whether the Yoga is able to independently function 
or has been absorbed by some other more powertul 
Nabhasa Yoga, the reader can easily find out. 


Nabhasa Yogas 117 
92. Damni Yoga 


Definition.— All the seven planets should occupy 
any six signs. 

Results.—The person will be highly charitable, 
always helping others and a protector of cattle. 

Remarks.—In ascribing results to these Yogas, 
classical writers have deffered from each other. For 
instance, the effects given above for Damini are based 
on Varahamihira while Saravali glorifies the Yoga 
considerably. But all writers seem almost agreed on 
the general good or bad nature of the results due to 
a yoga. Damini or Dama Yoga seems to give a man 
intellect, fame and wealth also. Of course. the exact 
nature of effects depends upon the general disposition 
of the chart. 

Chart No. 56.—Born on 11-10-1916 at 5-55 am. Lat, 13° 35° 
N. ; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth : years 9-6-7. 


Both the Charts 56 and 57 illustrate the presence 
of Damini Yoga. But a careful examination of the 


118 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


two reveals that Chart No. 57 is stronger and more 
potential. 56 is marred by the weakness of Lagnadhi- 
pati while Chart No. 57 is considerably fortified by 
the presence of Mars, a yogakaraka in the 5th and 
another trine lord Jupiter in the 11th. In point of 
fame and wealth, Chart No. 57 is decidedly more 
powerful. Such illustrations furnish clues as to how 
the same Yoga can operate in different ways in 
different horoscopes. 

Chart No 57.—Born on 29-12-1893 at 7 p.m. Lat. 1]° Nv; 
Long. 78° 40° E. 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 8-1-15. 


93. Pasa Yoga 


Definition.—The planets should occupy any five 
signs, 

Results.—The person will acquire wealth through 
right means and he will always be surrounded by 
friends, servants and relatives. 


Nabhasa Yogas 119 


Remarks.—Saravali suggests that one born in 
Pasa Yoga will suffer from incarceration. This state- 
ment should not be taken in its face value. Pasa 
Yoga in itself cannot make one a prisoner unless 
there are other combinations indicating the same 
event. The presence of Lagna, and the lord of Lagna 
in the 6th and 8th in Pasa Drekkanas would be a 
powerful combination for imprisonment. 


Chart No. 58.—Born on 4-3-1886 at 11-30 p.m. Lar. 16° 40° 
V, Long. 87° E. 


Sun 
Jupiter 


Kethu 


oe ees: 


' 
Lagna , 


t 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at birth: years 12-5-]. 


Charts No. 58 and 59 are examples of Pasa Yoga. 
Chart No. 58 belongs to an ex-Speaker of Provincial 
t-egislative Assembly who has suffered incarceration 
a number of times as would be evident by Rahu-Mars 
combination in the 10th aspected by Saturn. The 
teuth house has received no other benefic aspect. The 
disposition of Pasa Yoga may have also contributed 
its share of evil in making the subject undergo impri- 
sonment. In Chart No. 59, on the other hand, the 10th 
is considerably strengthened by the presence of Mer- 


120 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


cury and Venus while the birth is forified by the 
aspect of its own lord, in this case Jupiter. The native 
of the horoscope was a Joint-Secretary in the Govern- 
ment of India and had been getting on very well. These 
illustrations are provided with a view to driving home 
to the reader that great care must be exercised in sift- 
ing the evidence furnished by different combinations. 
In both the horoscopes the benefic aspects of Pasa 
Yoga have manifested considerably. 


Chart No. 59.—Born on 7-9-1904 at 1-SOpm ({ST) 
Lat. 18° 52' N. ; Long. 72° 35" E. 


NAVAMSA 


Lagna 


Saturn 
Saturi 


| 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 15-0-24, 


94. Kedara Yoga 


Definition —All the planets must be ranged in 
any four signs. 

Results.--The person will earn his livelihood by 
agriculture and be highly helpful to others. 

Remarks.—A comparative study of a large num- 
ber of horoscopes possessing Akriti Yogas leads me 


Nabhasa Yogas 123 


to the perception that these yogas could furnish help- 
ful hints for guessing one’s profession which has 
always been a hard nut to crack. Hala Yoga (vide 
Page No. 111) makes one pursue agriculture. Simi- 
larly Kedara also is said to make one an agriculturist. 
Saravali points out that one having Kedara Yoga will 
have a bull intellect or poor comprehensive power. 


95. Sula Yoga 
96. Yuga Yoga 
97. Gola Yoga 


Definition.—Suia Yoga, Yuga and Gola are given 
rise to by the seven planets occupying respectively, 
any three signs, two signs or single sign. 

Results.—Sula makes one devoid of wealth, coura- 
geous, cruel and possess marks of wounds received 
in battle; Yuga renders one poor, ostracised by 
society, heretical and a drunkard. Gola gives rise 
to apoor, dirty, unnamed, ignorant and indolent 
individual. 

Remarks.—All the above three yogas are said to 
cause poverty, render the person unfit for company 
by his wrathsome conduct and habits and make him 
miserable. Probably the joining together of all the 
seven planets within a space of 90 degrees would 
release a conglomeration of evil forces that the rays 
of benefics would lose their lustre and merge with 
those of the evil planets. As, however, no Yoga can 
exclusively manifest itself, the results due to it should 
not be applied in their entirety. Sula Yoga may be 
present in a horoscope. The native may be poor, and 


122 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


may have sustained injuries in fights yet, on account 
of the strength of Lagna or the Moon he may be a man 
of sterling character. Therefore judgment in astrology 
has a number of pitfalls which a clever student has to 
avoid. 

In Chart No. 60 Sula Yoga is present, as all the 
planets have occupied three signs.-It pertains to a 
Commander in the British Royal Air Force. Same of 
the results attributed to Sula Yoga are to be found 
in the native. But he is neither poor nor cruel. 

Chart No. 60.—Born on 8-12-1921 at 12-15.a.m. Lone. 0- 5' 
WW. ; Lot. 5/° 30° N. 


Saturn | Moon 


| Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 
Rahu 
Mercury Venus 
Mars 


Balance of Jupiter’s Dasa at birth: years 5-1-18. 


Yuga Yoga is brought out in Chart No. 61 as all 
the planets are situated in two signs. But as the horos- 
cope has a number of other relieving features. 
viewed from Chandra Lagna, the effects of Yuga 
Yoga have been considerably restricted. 


Nabhasa Yogas 123 


Chart No. 61.—Born on 9-10-1923 at 6-38 p.m. (1.S.T.) 
Lat, 10° 58° N. ; Long. 79° 25° E. 


—s NAVAMSA 


Mars 


Mars 
Mere, 
Moor 
Sua 
Jupoter 
saturn 


Jupiter 
Saturn | Rahu 


Venus | 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 7-0-0. 


Gola Yoga is indeed a rare combination, as it 
requires the presence of all the planets in a single 
sign. 


98. Rajju Yoga 
99. Musala Yoga 
100. Nala Yoga 


Definition.—If all the planets exclusively occupy 
movable, fixed or common signs respectively, Rajju, 
Musala and Nala Yogas are caused. 

Results ——The person born in Rajju will be fond 
of travel, handsome, searching for wealth in foreign 
countries, somewhat cruel and envious. One born in 
Musala will be endowed with self-respect, wealth, 
learning a steady mind, engaged in many works, 
famous and proud. Nala Yoga makes one deformed, 
shrewd, and defected. 


124 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 62-—Born on {-1]-1910 at l p.m. Lait. 13° N.; 
Long. 77° 35° E. 


Kethu 


Satum 


Jupiter 
ISun Mars 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at birth: years 15-6-17. 

Chart No. 62 has all the planets in moveable 
signs and therefore illustrates Rajju Yoga. 

Remarks.—The above three yogas constitute the 
Asraya group being one of the sub-divisions of 
Nabhasa Yogas. All the planets must occupy exclusi- 
vely movable signs, or exclusively fixed signs or exclu- 
sively common signs to give rise to these three yogas. 
Here, no reference is made to the situation of Lagna 
or the disposition of the planets in the cardinal, fixed 
or common signs with reference to the Lagna. Some 
commentators are of the opinion that in order to 
cause Asraya Yogas, all the four movable, al) the 
four fixed and all the four common signs should be 
occupied. But Garga refutes this view and thereby 
implies that the only condition is that when the 
movable—all or any of the four—signs are occupied, 
the fixed and the common signs should be vacant 
for causing Rajju Yoga. Similarly with regard to 


Nabhasa Yogas 12S 


Musala and Nala. As Rajju has reference to movable 
signs, one born under its influence would always be 
wandering about in quest of wealth and fame. when 
all the planets are in immovable signs, the native is 
expected to be fixed in determination. Whereas, 
planets confined to common signs are held to make 
the person depressed and disappointed. 


101. Srik Yoga 
102. Sarpa Yoga 


Definiiion.—Sf all the benefics occupy kendras, 
Srik Yoga is caused. If all the malefics occupy 
kendras Sarpa Yoga is produced. 

Results.—The person born in Srik Yoga will live 
in comfort, will possess conveyance and will have 
many enjoyments. Sarpa Yoga renders one miserable 
in many ways, cruel and stupid. 

Remarks.— Srik (also known as Mala) and Sarpa 
Yogas are the two Dala Yogas mentioned by Para- 
sara. The Kendras must be exclusively occupied by 
benefics or malefics. It must be noted that so far as 
this yoga is concerned, the Moon is completely left 
out of account so that there remain only three bene- 
fics and three malefics. We have formulated above ina 
fairly exhaustive manner all the Nabhasa Yogas men- 
tioned by Varahamihira. In locating these yogas, there 
are certain factors to be considered. By carcfully 
remembering the definition of Asraya Yogas, Akirti 
Yogas, Dala Yogas and Sankhya Yogas it would 
occur to any student of Astrology that sometimes 
Asraya Yogas become identical with Akriti Yogas; 


126 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Sankhya Yogas become identical with Akriti Yogas; 
Asraya Yogas coincide with Sankhya Yogas and 
Dala Yogas coincide with Sankhya Yogas. When 
such identification of two yogas belonging to two 
different groups of the Nabhasa Yogas happens, one 
of the two will cease to operate. Mihira answers this 
point clearly and succinctly. 

It will be seen that three Asraya Yogas (Rajju, 
Musala and Nala) are practically the same as Yava, 
Abja, Vajra, Andaja or Pakshi, Gola, Gada and 
Sakata, among the Akriti Yogas and Sula and 
Kedara among the Sankhya Yogas, while the two 
Dala Yogas (Srik and Sarpa) give results similar to 
those of benefics and malefics occupying kendras 
(Vajra and Yava). Elaborating the comparison fur- 
ther let us suppose that in a horoscope Cancer and 
Libra (movable signs) have been occupied by all the 
planets, thereby causing Rajju Yoga. Two adjacent 
angles are occupied. If the ascendant is either Cancer 
or Libra, then Gada is caused with the result it be- 
comes identical with Rajju. Similarly if the planets 
occupy Cancer and Capricorn and the Lagna is 
Cancer or Capricorn, both Rajju and Sakata Yogas 
merge together. Nala and Sakata coincide if we 
switch on to Gemini and Sagittarius provided one of 
these two signs is raising. Thus, if the ascendant falls 
elsewhere then both the yogas will be present. Simi- 
larly examples for coincidence of Asraya or Dala 
Yogas with other Akriti and Sankhya Yogas can be 
given. These coincidences do not include al! possible 
instances of Asraya and Dala Yogas in the Akriti 
and Sankhya Yogas. Therefvre, in order to show that 


Duryogs 127 


Asraya and Dala Yogas are also Nabhasa Yogas, 
Varahamihira has treated’ of them saparately. We 
have now to consider another point. When Sankhya 
Yogas coincide with Akriti Yogas, the latter alone 
prevail. When Asraya Yogas coincide with other 
yogas (Akriti) the former cease to function. When 
Dala Yogas coincide with Sankhya Yogas the latter 
become defunct. And if Asraya Yogas coincide with 
Sankhya, i.e., Kedara, Sula and Yuga, the former 
alone will prevail and finally if an Asraya Yoga coin- 
cides with Gola Yoga, the Asraya Yoga becomes 
defunct. Thus it will be seen that the differences bet- 
ween some of the yogas are very thin and call forth 
on the part of the astrologer keen perception and 
analytical power. 


103. Duryoga 


Definition If the lord of the 10th is situated in 
the 6th, 8th or 12th, Duryoga is caused. 

Results.—The person will not derive the fruits of 
his own bodily exertion ; he will be looked down by 
others ; highly selfiish and always intent upon deceiv- 
ing others, he will live in a foreign place. 

Remarks.—The 10th is the pivot of the horoscope 
and its lord should be strong if one’s life is to be 
tolerably happy. When the 10th lord is in Dusthanas 
he will lose his vitality and is therefore said to confer 
on the native just those qualities which render him 
insignificant in the eyes of the public. Harming others, 


128 Three Hundred important Combinations 


selfishness and gluttony are not qualities conducive 
to making one virtuous. One who has Duryoga is 
supposed not to derive the benefits of his own bodily 
exertions. Duryoga seems to indicate that one would 
earn his livelihood by manual labour. Of the three 
Dusthanas, the 12th seems to be the least malefic so 
far as this Yoga is concerned, because whilst depri- 
ving one of the fruits of his labours, it will at least 
give him noble qualities and therefore a certain 
amount of respect in society. 


104. Daridra Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the 11th in the 6th, 8th 
or [2th will give rise to Daridra Yoga. 

Resuits.—The native will contact huge debts, will 
be very poor, will suffer from auditory troubles, will 
be mean and will commit sinful and criminal deeds. 

Remarks.—The yoga is a simple one and is quite 
common. Therefore one should not rush to ascribe 
all these results to a horoscope in which Daridra 
Yoga is present. When the Lagna is strong and the 
11th lord is in the 6th, Daridra Yoga exists nominally. 
Because, such a disposition whilst rendering the per- 
son mean and inclined to pursue sinful activities, will 
not make him very poor. Criminal intentions are not 
the sole monopoly of the poor. The rich are equally 
culpable to such a tendency betause the richer a per- 
son the more avaricious he becomes to gain his selfish 
ends. Generous instincts and the tendency toworship 
mammon are indeed poles apart. 


Daridra Yoga 129 


105. Harsha Yoga 
106. Sarala Yoga 
107. Vimala Yoga 


Definition —The lords of the 6th, 8th and 12th 
occupying the 6th, 8th and 12th will give rise to 
Harsha, Sarala and Vimala Yogas respectively. 

Results —Harsha makes one fortunate, happy, 
invincible, physically strong, wealthy, famous and 
afraid of sinful deeds. One born in Sarala becomes 
long-lived, fearless, learned, a terror to enemies, cele- 
brated and prosperous. Vimala renders the person 
frugal, happy, independent and possessed of enno- 
bling qualities. 

Remarks.—These three yogas furnish us with a 
clue as to how lords of Dusthanas by occupying Dus- 
thanas can overcome the evil due to such malefic 
ownership. Even though the author of the above 
yogas has ascribed very pleasant results to these three 
combinations, yet in actual practice, quite the contrary 
have been the results. Parasara and Lomasa do not 
seem to favour the conception that the sting arising 
from an evil lordship can disappear entirely as a 
result of the lord occupying another Dusthana. On 
the other hand, the intensity will be somew/ar modi- 
fied. This is evident from the fact that according to 
Parasara, when the 6th lord is in the 6th, the native’s 
relatives become enemies while he would befriend 
outsiders and when the 6th lord is in the 8th or 12th, 
“the person becomes sickly, hates learned men, goes 


after others’ women and takes pleasure in causing 
9 


130 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


violence”. Therefore in interpreting the three yogas 
given above, one should have an eye on the intrinsic 
evil nature of the ownership. 


108. Sareera Soukhya Yoga 


Definition. —The lord of Lagna, Jupiter or Venus 
should occupy a quadrant. 

Results—The subject will be endowed with long 
life, wealth and political favours. 

Remarks.—If all the three factors above referred 
to, viz., the ascendant lord, Jupiter and Venus are in 
kendras, the Yoga would be rendered highly power- 
ful with the result all the’ blessings of the Yoga will 
manifest. The Yoga is fairly common but hardly 
noticed. 


109. Dehapushti Yoga 


Definition —The ascendant lord in a movable 
sign aspected by a benefic gives rise to this Yoga. 

Results.— The native will be happy, will possess a 
well-developed body, will become rich and will enjoy 
life. 

Remarks.—Leading a happy life is different from 
having amenities needed for it. Lord of Lagna 
must be in a movable sign and some benefic must 
aspect him. Some people are indifferent to bodily care 


Dehakashta Yoga 13 


and comforts while there are others who, in spite of 
meagre earnings, will look after their body with the 
utmost care. 


110. Dehakashta Yoga 


Definition. —The lord of Lagna must join a malefic 
or occupy the 8th house. 

Results.—The subject will be devoid of bodily 
comforts. 

Remarks.—As the name implies, Dehakashta 
Yoga means difficulty for the body. Most of the 
manual workers belong to this category. The Yoga 
is said to become defunct if a benefic aspects the 
ascendant lord. 


111. Rogagrastha Yoga 


Definition —{a) If the lord of Lagna occupies the 
ascendant in conjunction with the lord of the 6th, 8th 
or 12th; or (4) if the weak lord of Lagna joins a trine 
or a quadrant, Rogagrastha Yoga is caused. 

Results.—The native will possess a weak constitu- 
tion and be sickly. 

Remarks.—Tie Yoga comprehends to combina- 
tions, viz., (1) the ascendant lord being placed in 
the ascendant and joined by the lord of the 6th, 8th 
or 12th; and (2) the weak ascendant lord occcupying 


132 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


atrine or a quadrant. It is a general astrological 
precept that when the ascendant lord joins a trine or 
a quadrant he acquires vitality When he is weak, by 
which term is implied that his shadbala pinda (sum 
total of strength) falls short of the requisite quantity, 
the distinction attached to location in a kendra or 
thrikona is lost. It is found in actual practice that the 
lordship of the 12th is less malefic than that of the 
6th or 8th and hence when the lords of the Lagna 
and 12th join, the affliction expresses itself more in 
the nature of financial stress than in terms of Deha- 
kashta or Rogagrastha Yogas. One born under this 
combination will not have a healthy constitution. It 
will lack the requisite power of resistancc so that the 
native falls an easy prey to disease. 


112 and 113. Krisanga Yogas 


Definition —The ascendant lord should occupy a 
a dry sign or the sign owned by a ‘dry’ planet (112). 
The Navamsa Lagna should be owned by a ‘dry’ 
planet and malefics should join the Lagna (113). 
Results—The subject will have an emaciated or 
lean body and will suffer from bodily pains. 
Remarks.—Dry signs are Aries, Taurus, Gemini, 
Leo, Virgo and Sagittarius. Dry planets are the Sun, 
Mars and Saturn. Mercury may also be held to bea 
dry planet for all practical purposes. The same result 
can be judged if the Lagna and the lord have acquired 


Deshathoulya Yoga 133 


a large number of dry vargas or divisions such as 
Rasi, Hora, etc. 

Chart No. 63—Born on 8-8-2912 at 7-23 p.m. (L.M.T.} Lat. 
13° N.; Long. 77° 34 E. 


Moon 5 
Rahu Satum aturn Vefius 
R 
Lagna Sun ay 
AGL j—__!_ NAVAMSA 
Mars Moon 
Merc. || Lagna! Mercury 
Venus Kethu 
Jupiter (Kethu Jupiter {| Mars | 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 6-0-10. 

Here the Amsa Lagna belongs to a dry planet 
and it is aspected by a first rate malefic, viz., Mars. 
The result is obvious, viz., the native has a lean and 
emaciated physical appearance. 


414 to 116. Dehasthoulya Yogas 


Definition.--Lord of Lagna and the planet, in 
whose Navamsa the lord of Lagna is placed, should 
occupy watery signs (114). 

The Lagna must be occupied by Jupiter or he 
must aspect the Lagna from a watery sign (115). 

The ascendant must fall in a watery sign in con- 
junction with benefics or the ascendant lord must be 
a watery planet (216). 


1x Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.— Possessing a strong body is different 
from having an unwieldy and corpulent appearance. 
In the above three combinations,by dehasthoulva is 
meant stoutness of the body and has no reference to 
a well-built or strong physical appearance. Watery 
signs are Cancer, Aquarius, Capricorn, Pisces, Scor- 
pio and Libra, and the watery planets are the Moon 
and Venus. Of course, Mercury and Jupiter are also 
water resorters and a predominance of the water ele- 
ment in regard to Lagna or lagnadhipathi would 
invariably make the person corpulent. 


Chart No. 64.— Born on 29-7-1909 at Gh. I-15 after sunrise ; 
Lat. 13° N; Long 77°34 E. 


Mars Saturn Rahu | 


Saturn 


NAVAMSA 


Rahu 


| Mars 
Jupiter 


Sun Mercury 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 6-5-23. 

In Chart No. 64, Cancer, a watery sign, is rising 
and the Moon, a watery planet, is in Scorpio another 
watery sign. The Moon (lord of the ascendant) is in 
Aquarius (a watery sign) in Navamsa aspected by 
Jupiter. The subject has a stout body. 


117. Sada Sanchara Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of either Lagna or the sign 
occupied by Lagna lord must be in a movable sign. 

Results.—The native will almost always be a 
wanderer. 

Remarks.—The combination referred to above is 
very common in the horoscopes of travelling agents, 
diplomats and globe-trotters. If both the Lagna and 
the Navamsa Lagna are in movable signs, the subject 
would hardly confine himself to any particular loca- 
lity. On the contrary, he will always be moving about. 


118 to 122. Dhana Yogas 


Definition —If the Sth from the Ascendant hap- 
pens to be a sign of Venus, and if Venusand Saturn 
are situated in the Sth and [1th respectively, Dhana 
Yoga is caused—118. 

Mercury should occupy his own sign which 
should be the Sth from Lagna and the Moon and 
Mars should be in the 11th—119. 

Saturn should occupy his own sign which should 
be the Sth from Lagna, and Mercury and Mars 
should be posited in the | 1th—120. 

The Sun must occupy the Sth identical with his 
own sign and Jupiter and the Moon should be in the 
Jith—i21. 


136 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


If the Sth from Lagna happens to be a house of 
Jupiter with Jupiter there and Mars and the Moon 
in the 11th, Dhana Yoga arises—122. 

Results.—In all the above cases, the native will 
acquire much wealth. 

Remarks.—The above five Yogas caused by the 
disposition of certain planets in the Sth and 11th 
houses are really significant as. they indicate great 
riches. In the first case, the Lagna must invariably be 
Capricorn or Gemini. When Makara is the Ascen- 
dant Saturn will have to be in Scorpio, the 11th. Lord 
of Lagna in the 11th is indeed a fine combination. 
Similarly when Gemini is Lagna, Saturn will have to 
be in Aries. This cannot be as powerful as in the 
first instance unless Saturn gets Neechabhanga. 

In 119 Lagna must fall either in Aquarius or in 
Taurus. In regard to Aquarius, the combination in 
the 11th will be due tothe lord of the 10th and 6th 
while for Taurus, the location in the 11th would be of 
the lords of the 3rd and 7th. The degree of wealth 
would be the same but the sources of getting it 
would be different. 

Combination 120 has reference to Virgo and 
Libra. If Virgo is Lagna, then Mercury lord of the 
10th will be in the 11th. If Libra is Lagna, then the 
9th lord will be in the 11th. Both the dispositions 
are highly favourable though, in the first instance, 
Mercury being lord of Lagna also in addition to the 
lordship of the 10th would certainly have greater 
significance. 

Combination 121 is applicable only to Aries in 
which case the Sun as lord of the 5th would be in the 


Dhana Yogas 137 


5th and the Moon lord of the 4th and Jupiter lord 
of the 9th would be in the 1 1th. Moon—Jupiter combi- 
nation itself comprehends two powerful Raja Yogas, 
because firstly they are lords of a kendra and thrikona 
respectively, and secondly, Gajakesari would be 
formed—-all occurring in the 11th house. 121 would 
indeed be a powerful Dhana Yoga. 

If Jupiter could be in the Sth identical with his 
own sign (as required in combination 122) in respect 
of Scorpio and Leo, the Yoga could be expected to 
be more powerful in respect of Scorpio, because 
when Mars and the Moon occupy the 1 Ith, they do so 
as lords of | and 9 and hence of considerable signifi- 
cance. 

It will be seen that all the five combinations given 
above have reference to the fortification of the Sth 
and 11th houses. 


Chart No. 65.—Born on 30-6-1897 at 7-20 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 8° N. ; Long. 79° 45’ E. 


RASI 


NAVAMSA 
Jupiter 
Satum 


Balance of Jupiter’s Dasa at birth: years 12-1-13. 


138 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


In Chart No. 65 the 5th from Lagna is owned by 
Venus, and Venus and Saturn occupy, respectively, 
the 5th and 1[th houses, hence illustrating combina- 
tion 118. Saturn’s Dasa proved highly beneficial from 
the point of view of of finance, prosperity having set 
in, aS soon as Venus’ sub-period commenced. 


Chart No. 66.—8orn on 5-9-1906 at 9-16 am. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 25° N.; Long. 84° E. 


Mars 


aerain Mercury 


Saturno Rahu|i Jupit. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth: year 0-0-9. 


Chart No. 66 is a typicalexample for combina- 
tion 120. Saturn owns and occupies the Sth and Mars 
(lord of the 2nd) and Mercury (lord of the 9th) are 
in the 11th in association with the Sun, the lord of 
the 11th. The peculiarity in this case is that during 
Mercury’s Dasa the native’s father became extremely 
wealthy, probably due to the fact that Mercury hav- 
ing caused Dhana Yoga is associated with the Pitru- 
karaka Sun. 

Chart No. 67 illustrates combination 121. The 
Sun occupies the 5th which is his own sign while the 
Moon and Jupiter are together in the 11th. It will 


Dhana Yogas 139 


be seen that the Moon and Jupiter have caused two 
yogas, viz., Gajakesari and another Raja Yoga thus 
fortifying the house of gains considerably. 


Chart No. 67.—Born on 20-8-1891 at 10 pin. Lat. 19° N.; 
Long. 72° 35° E. 


Rahu Sun 
Jupiter 


Moon 
Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Saturn | Kethu 
Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at birth: years 2-6-15. 


Chart No. 68.—Born on 20-8-1927 at 12-30 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat, }2° N. ; Long. 72° 50° E. 


Jupiter 


Mercury 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 3-8-21. 


140 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 68 isan example for combination 122 
which requires the presence of Jupiter in the Sth (in 
his own sign} and Moon and Mars inthe t1ith. A 
powerful Chandramangala Yoga occurs in the [1 th. 
As Mars arid the Moon are lords of the Ist and 9th 
respectively a powerful Raja Yoga is also caused. 


123 to 128. Dhana Yogas (Contd.) 


Definition —If the Sun is in Lagna identical with 
Leo, and aspected or joined by Mars and Jupiter, 
Dhana Yoga is formed—123. 

If the Moon is in Lagna identical with Cancer 
and aspected by Jupiter and Mars, Dhana Yoga is 
caused —124, 

Mars should be in Lagna identical with Aries or 
Scorpio and Joined or aspected by the Moon, Venus 
and Satum—125. 

Mercury should be in Lagna identical with his 
own sign and joined or aspected by Saturn and Venus 
—126. 

Jupiter should be in Lagna identical with his 
own sign and joined or aspected by Mercury and 
Mars— 127. 

Venus should be in Lagna identical with his own 
sign and joined or aspected by Saturn and Mercury 
—128. 

Results—tin all the above cases, the subject 
acquires immense wealth. 


Dhana Yosgas 141 


Remarks.—In the above six combinations, planets 
from the Sun to Venus are to occupy Lagna which 
should be the own sign of the planet concerned and 
itshould be conjoined or aspected by certain other 
planets as per details given below :— 


Planet Ascendant Conjunction or Aspect of 
Sun Leo Mars, Jupiter 

Moon Cancer Mars, Jupiter 

Mars Aries and Scorpio Moon, Venus, Saturn 
Mercury Gemini and Virgo Venus, Saturn 

Jupiter Sagittarius and Pisces | Mars. Mercury 

Venus Taurus and Libra Mercury, Saturn 


It will be seen that except Capricorn and 
Aquarius, the rest of the signs have been taken into 
account. In all the above cases, the lord of Lagna 
must be in his own sign identical with Lagna and 
aspected by or associated with certain favourable 
lords. 

Each of the above combinations can havea num- 
ber of variations as could be seen from the following 
explanation. Take for example the Sun. Leo is Lagna, 
and the Sun is there. 


The Dhana Yoga in question may be caused by: 

(a) Supiter and Mars being in Lagna. 

(6) Jupiter being in Sagittarius and Mars in 
Capricorn. 

(c) Jupiter beingin Sagittarius and Mars in 
Aquarius. 

(d) Supiter and Mars being in Aquarius. 

(e) Jupiter being in Aries and Mars in Taurus. 

The same variations can be seen in regard to the 

Dhana Yoga arising out of other planets also. 


142 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 69.—Born on 15-5-1909 at6 a.m, (L,M.T.) Lat. 
13° N.; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Moon 
NAVAMSA 
| Mercury 
; Jupiter | 
| 
| Mars Rahu 


Balance of Jupiter’s Dasa at birth: years 3-1-16. 


Combination 128 is shown by Chart No. 69. The 
Lagna is Taurus and lord Venus is in Lagna in 
conjunction with Mercury and aspected by Saturn. 


Chart No. 70—Born on 29-1-1940 at 7-06 a.m. (1ST) 
Lat, 30° 12' N.; Long, 67° 02' E. 


Jupiter 


Jupiter | Saturn 


Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth: years [-7-05. 


Bahudravyarjana Yoga 143 


Chart No. 70 is an example for combination 123. 
Lagna is Leo and the Sun is in Leo with Mars and is 
aspected by Jupiter. 


129. Bahudravyarjana Yoga 


Definition.—Lord of the Lagra in the 2nd, lord 
of the 2nd in the 11th and the lord of the 11th in 
Lagna will give rise to this Yoga. 

Results.—The subject will earn lot of money and 
will amass a good fortune. 

Remarks.—A point of contact is established bet- 
ween the Lagna, 2nd and 1\th houses—the lords of 
these three houses interchanging their respective posi- 
tions. Here again, the real value of the Yoga depends 
upon the strength of the lords concerned and how they 
are disposed in regard to the general scheme of 
the horoscope. 

Chart No. 71.—Born on 2-6-1892 at 10-16 a.m. Lat. 13° N.; 


Long. 77° 35° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years 11-6-9. 


144 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


In Chart No. 71 lord of Lagna is in the 2nd, the 
lord of the 2nd is in the 11th and the lord of the 11th 
in Lagna thus showing the presence of a very 
powerful Dhana Yoga. 


130 to 132. Swaveeryaddhana Yogas 


Definition —The Lord of Lagna, being the stron- 
gest planet, should occupy a kendra in conjunction 
with Jupiter and the 2nd lord should join 
Vaiseshikamsa— 130. 

The lord of the sign in which the lord of the 
Navamsa occupied by the Ascendant lord is, should 
be strong, and join a quadrant or a trine from the 
2nd lord or should occupy his own or exaltation sign 
—131. 

The 2nd lord should occupy a quadrant or trine 
from the 1st lord or the 2nd lord being a_benefic 
should be either in deep exaltation or in conjunction 
with an exalted planet—132. 

Results —The subject will earn money by his own 
efforts and exertions. 

Remarks —Inherited wealth cannot last long nor 
is it made use of properly. Generally such wealth is 
squandered away on pleasures and valueless purposes. 
The person concerned will have no experience as to 
how difficult it is to earn money by fair means. On 
the other hand, wealth acquired through personal 
effort would be rightly spent or at least not wasted 
because of the exertions put forth in making the 


Swaveeryaddhana Yogas 145 


money. The above three combinations are quite 
clear and need no clarification. 

According to 130, the ascendant lord must be the 
strongest planet in the horoscope and he should be 
in a kendra in conjunction with Jupiter and 2nd ford 
in Vaiseshikamsa. 

131 is somewhat confusing. Lord of Lagna is in 
some Navamsa. The lord of that Navamsa occupies 
some sign. Its lord must be disposed in a kendra or 
thrikona from the 2nd lord. Suppose Lagna is Kanya 
and the lord is in Makara Navamsa. The lord of 
Makara is Saturn and suppose he occupies (in Rasi) 
Mesha. Then the lord of this sign, viz., Mars should 
be in a kendra from Venus, lord of the 2nd. 

Chart No. 72.—Born on 8-3-1912 at 7-23 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N. ; Long. 77° 34’ E. 


Jupiter 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 6-0-10. 
In Chart No. 72, lord of Lagna, Saturn, is in 
Mesha Navamsa ; the lord of which, -viz., Mars is in 


Leo. Its lord Sun is in a trine from Jupiter lord of 
19 


146 Three Huadred Important Combinations 


the 2nd. The native started life with no financial 
facilities but earned decently by his own exertions. 
132 is quite simple. 


133. Madhya Vayasi Dhana Yoga 


Deftnition.—The 2nd lord possessing Kalabala 
must join the lords of Lagna and the 11th in a 
quadrant or a trine and be aspected by benefics. 

Results.—The person will acquire money by self- 
effort towards the middle part of his life. 

Remarks.—Kalabala or temporal strength is one 
of the six sources of planetary strength enumerated 
at length in my Graha and Bhava Balas. Kalabala 
consists of various sub-divisions based upon the 
lunar phases, weekday, time, solstice and planetary 
fights. Generally speaking, planets are said to acquire 
Kalabala in their weekdays, months and years. The 
Moon, Mars and Saturn are powerful during the 
night. The Sun, Jupiter and Venus are powerful 
during the day. Mercury is always powerful. Malefics 
and benefics are powerful during the dark half and 
bright half of the lunar month respectively. 

In order to make one get wealth in the middle 
part of his life lord of the 2nd having acquired 
Kalabala should be in a kendra or a thrikona in 
conjunction with the lords of Lagna and the I[th. 

A perusal of astrological literature bearing upon 
‘Wealth’ reveals clearly that in order-to become rich, 
one should have in his horoscope combinations which 


Anthya Vayasi Dhana Yoga 147 


comprehend a point of contact between lords of 
Lagna, 2nd, 11th, 5th and 9th. Permutations and 
combinations of these lords give rise to a stupendous 
number of Dhana Yogas. 


134. Anthya Vayasi Dhana Yoga 


Definition.—The planets owning the sign in which 
the lords of the 2nd and Ist together with a natural 
benefic are placed, should be strongly disposed in 
Lagna. 

Results.—The subject will acquire finance through 
various means towards the last part of his life. 

Remarks.—There are some who eke out a mise- 
rable existence almost throughout their lives but all 
of a sudden, just at the fag end of their lives fortune 
dawns on them. Such instances are not rare. The 
combination requires that lords of Lagna and the 
2nd should be in conjunction with a benefic and the 
lord of this sign should be strong and occupy Lagna. 
The combination is not of frequent occurrence. 


135. Balya Dhana Yoga 


Definition.—The lords of the 2nd and !0th should 
be in conjunction in a kendra aspected by the lord of 
the Navamsa occupied by the ascendant lord. 


148 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Resulis.—The person acquries immense riches in 
the early part of life. 

Remarks.—The Yoga is a round about one. Three 
conditions have to be fulfilled for its presence, viz., 
(a) the 2nd and 10th lords should be in conjunction ; 
(b) they must occupy a kendra from Lagna, and (c) 
they must be aspected by the planet who owns the 
Navamsa in which the lord of Lagna is located. 

The following horoscope illustrates combination 
No. 135. 

Chart No. 73.—Born on 25-4-1945 at 4-7 p.m. LS.T. Lat. 
18° 52’ N.; Long. 72° 35' E. 


| Moon 
Sua 
Mars 


ss ‘ NAVAMSA 


Kethu Jupiter | Kethu 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 1-5-16. 


136 and 137. Bhratrumooladdhanaprapti Yoga 


Definition.—The lords of Lagna and the 2nd 
should join the 3rd aspected by benefics—136. 

The lord of the 3rd should bein the 2nd with 
Jupiter and aspected by or conjoined with the lord 
of aon who should have attained Vaiseshikamsa 


—~137 


Matnumooladdhana Yogas 149 


Results.—The native gets money through brothers 
and relatives. 

Remarks.—Predicting the source of income astro- 
logically is a difficult job. The above two combina- 
tions give a hint that one can earn money through 
brothers by a certain disposition of the 2nd and 3rd 
lords. 


138. Matrumooladdhana Yoga 


Definition.—If the lord of the 2nd joins the 4th 
lord or is aspected by him the above yoga will be 
caused. 

Results.—One ears money with the help of one’s 
mother. 

Remarks.—The combination may also be inter- 
preted to mean that depending upon the nature of 
the 4th lord, the source of earning could also vary. 
Thus if the 4th lord is Mars, agriculture may be the 
source. 


139. Putramooladdhana Yoga 


Definition.— If the strong lord of the 2nd is in con- 
junction with the Sth lord or Jupiter and if the lord 
of Lagna its in Vaiseshikamsa, the above yoga arises. 

Results —The person gets wealth through his 
sons. 


150 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—There are several instances of persons 
living from hand to mouth but becoming rich after 
their sons come to age and assist them in founding 
and developing some business or otherwise extending 
them financial facilities. The Lagna must be in 
Vaiseshikamsa and the strong 2nd lord should be 
associated with the Sth lord. 

In Chart No. 74, the 2nd lord is Jupiter and he 
is in conjunction with Sth lord Mercury. The Lagna 
lord is not in Vaiseshikamsa but he is decidedly 
strong. Till the age of 50, the native had never seen 
the bright side of life but beginning from the SIst 
year, father and son jointly floated a small business 
which steadily developed’ into a substantial concern. 
When the Yoga is present, it does not necessarily 
imply that the son would help the father with money. 
It may mean that after the birth cf a son the father 
would become rich. In sucha case the son only 
brings invisible Suck to the father. 

Chart No. 74.—Born on 1-6-1895 at Gh. 45-12 after Suirise 
at 13° N,; 77° 34° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Sun’s Dusa at birth : years 1-6-13. 


140. Satrumooladdhana Yoga 


Definition —The strong lord of the 2nd should 
join the lord of the 6th or Mars and the powerful 
lord of Lagna should be in Vaiseshikamsa. 

Results.--The native earns money through his 
enemies. 

Remarks.—Iin all these Yogas, stress is evidently 
laid on the strength of the 2nd lord and the powerful 
disposition of Lagnadhipethi in Vaiseshikamsa. To 
give the results suggested in the above Yoga, the 2nd 
lord may either join the 6th lord or Mars or be 
aspected by one of them. 


141. Kalatramooladdhana Yoga 


Definition.—The strong lord of the 2nd should 
join or be aspected by the 7th lord and Venus and 
the lord of Lagna must be powerful. 

Results—The subject will earn money through 
wife. 

Remarks.—lf the 2nd lord, whose inherent 
strength is of course assumed, is associated with the 
7th lord and Venus, one would become rich on 
account of one’s wife. 


142. Amaranantha Dhana Yoga 


Definition —If a number of planets occupy the 
2nd house and the wealth-giving ones are strong or 


152 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


occupy own or exaltation signs, the above Yoga is 
caused. 

Results —The native will enjoy wealth through- 
out life. 

Remarks.—The 2nd should be occupied by a 
number of planets. Besides this wealth-giving ones, 
viz., the 2nd lord and Jupiter should be strongly dis- 
posed. The Yoga given rise to inthis way would 
enable the person concerned command riches all 
through life. When a horoscope is inherently strong 
in respect of any particular bhava, its results will 
manifest permanently as_ different from those given 
rise to by Yogakarakas which generally hold sway 
during the Dasas concerned. 


143. Ayatnadhanalabha Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of the Lagna and the 2nd 


must exchange their places. 

Results.—The person earns wealth without much 
effort. 

Remarks.—There are some who lead a miserable 
existence in spite of their best attempts to enrich 
themselves whilst there are others who without strain- 
ing themselves much earn decently. We attribute 
this to chance or luck. Actually it is neither luck nor 
chance but the result of one’s good previous Karma. 
Parivarthana between the Ist and 2nd lords isa 
highly desirable feature. 


144 to 153. Daridra Yogas 


Definition —The lords of the 12th and Lagna 
should exchange their positions and be conjoined 
or be aspected by the lord of the 7th—144. 

The lords of the 6th and Lagna interchange their 
positions and the Moon is aspected by the 2nd or 
7th lord—145. 

Kethu and the Moon should be in Lagna—146. 

The lord of Lagna is in the 8th aspected by or in 
conjunction with the 2nd or 7th lord—147. 

The lord of Lagna joins the 6th, 8th or [2th with 
a malefic aspected by or combined with the 2nd or 
7th lord—148. 

Lord of Lagna is associated with the 6th, 8th or 
12th lord and subjected to malefic aspects—149. 

The lord of the Sth joins the lord of the 6th, 8th 
or 12th without beneficial aspects or conjunctions 
—150. 

The lord of the 5th is in the 6th or 10th aspected 
by lords of the 2nd, 6th, 7th, 8th or 12th—151. 

Natural malefics, who do not own the 9th or 
10th, should occupy Lagna and associate with or be 
aspected by the maraka lords—152. 

The lords of the Lagna and Navamsa Lagna 
should occupy the 6th, 8th or 12th and have the 
aspect or conjunction of the lords of the 2nd and 
7th—153. 

Results.—All the above Yogas produce dire 
poverty, financial straits, wretchedness and miseries. 


154 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—Poverty is a horrible spectre more 
grim-like than even death. Death puts an end to life 
and settles all worldly states. What happens after 
death, nobody knows. It is supposed to put an end 
to all the worldly miseries, sorrows and anxieties. 
Hence there are some people who prefer death to 
abject poverty. A poor man leads a wretched life. 
He is compelled to live in squalid and unhealthy 
houses. The children have no facilities for education, 
health and decent existence. The poor man is gene- 
rally shunned everywhere. He is an unwelcome guest 
at the doors of the ‘well-to-do’ classes. His legitimate 
activities are obstructed by financial difficulties and 
want of sympathy. Poverty is the hot-bed of crime 
and vice and the impervious sensations of hunger 
and thirst drive the poor to disgraceful acts. What- 
ever philosophers may say, the pangs of poverty are 
difficult to bear. 

In all the above combinations, reference is made 
in the original to the conjunction of lords of Lagna 
and the Sth with maraka lords. Evidently, the maraka 
lords are the 2nd and 7th lords. Some authors 
include 6th, 8th and 12th houses also as belonging 
to maraka category. 


154 and 155. Yukthi Samanwithavagmi Yogas 


Definition.—-The 2nd lord should join a benefic 
in a kendra or thrikona, or be exalted and combined 
with Jupiter—154. 


Paribasaka Yoga 155 


The lord of speech should occupy a kendra, 
attain paramochha and gain Parvatamsa, while Jupi- 
te. or Venus should be in Simhasanamsa—15S. 

Results.—The person will become an eloquent 
and skilled speaker. 

Remarks.—The art of speaking is not an easy 
one. The gift of eloquence can influence men and 
manners. Men can succeed beyond expectation by 
convincing speeches. Different occasions and condi- 
tions call for different degrees of eloquence or skill. 
In order to gain this power, lord of the 2nd must be 
well aspected and conjoined. Mercury must be free 
from affliction if one is not to become witty in the 
vulgar sense. 

For being an eloquent speaker, the lord of the 
2nd should join a trine or a quadtant with Jupiter or 
get exalted. Parvatamsa, Simhasanamsa, etc., have 
been defined infra. The nature of vocabulary and the 
dignified or low tone of the speech depends upon the 
good and malefic influences the planet of speech is 
subjected to. 


156. Parihasaka Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the Navamsa occupied 
by the Sun should attain Vaiseshikamsa and join the 
2nd house. 

Results —The person becomes a humorous and 
witty speaker. 


156 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—People of jolly temperament take 
things easy and lightly while there are some who take 
even trifles as serious. Humour is the spice of life 
and all cannot claim it with equal facility. 

The Sun occupies some Navamsa and its lord 
should be in the 2nd besides attaining Vaiseshikamsa. 

Tt will be seen that a planet can occupy its own 
Rasi, its own Ansa, its own Drekkana, etc., in which 
case it is said to be in Swarasi or Swakshetra, 
Swahora, Swadrekkana, etc. Inall these cases it is in 
Swavarga. There are Shodasa Vargas or sixteen types 
of divisions. A planet can therefore occupy its own 
varga sixteen times. Astrological writers have 
attached great significance to the special distinction 
of a planet being in its own varga more than once. 
The following are the important Amsas (distinctions) 
often alluded to in the astrological! literature. 

When a planet is in its own varga— 


Twice it is said to have attained Parijatamsa 


Thrice do. Uttamamsa 
Four times do. Gopuramsa 
Five 7 do. Simhasanamsa 
Six 3 do. Parvatamsa 
Seven 4s do. Devalokamsa 
Eight FF do. Kunkumamsa 
Nine ai do. Travathamsa 
Ten 33 do. Vaishnavamsa 
Eleven ,, do. Saivamsa 
Twelve ,, do. Bhaswadamsua 
Thirteen ,, do. Vaiseshikamsa 


When a planet attains Vaiseshikamsa, it is par 
excellence. 


157. Asatyavadi Yoga 


Definition.—If the lord of the 2nd occupies the 
house of Saturn or Mars and if malefics join kendras 
and thrikonas, the above Yoga is caused. 

Results.—The native will be a liar. 

Remarks.—According to this combination, lord 
of the 2nd must occupy Aries, Scorpio, Capri- 
corn or Aquarius and the kendras and thrikonas 
must have malefics. The same Yoga isalso said to 
be caused if the lord of the Navamsa occupied by 
the lord of the 2nd happens to be either Mars or 
Saturn or happens to stay in the signs of these two 
planets. 


158. Jada Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of the 2nd should be posi- 
ted in the 10th with malefics or the 2nd must be 
joined by the Sun and Mandi. 

Results.—The person becomes nervous in public 
assemblies. 

Remarks.—There are some people who though 
learned, well-informed and capable of eloquence lose 
their balance of mind and become extremely nervous 
when they are called upon to speak in large gather- 
ings. Such people will generally have the 2nd lord 
afflicted. Even when the above combination is pre- 


158 Three Hundred important Combinations 


sent, if the 2nd lord is in a benefic Navamsa, the 
Yoga is found to lose its significance. 


159. Bhaskara Yoga 


Definition.—Mercury in the 2nd from the Sun, 
the Moon in the 11thfrom Mercury and Jupiter in 
the 5th or 9th from the Moon give rise to Bhaskara 
Yoga. 

Results—The native will be wealthy, valorous, 
aristocratic, learned in Sastras, Astrology and Music, 
and will have a good personality. 

Remarks.—Three planets figure in this Yoga but 
their location relative to the Lagna or their signs of 
dignity or fall is not taken into consideration. It is 
required that Mercury should be in the 2nd from the 
Sun and the Moon in the 11th from Mercury, ie., 
the 12th from the Sun. In other words the Moon, 
Sun and Mercury should occupy three successive 
signs and Jupiter should be in a thrikona from the 
Moon. 

The above horoscope is typically illustrative of 
Bhaskara Yoga as Mercury is in the 2nd from the 
Sun, the Moon is in the 11th from Mercury, and 
Jupiter occupies a trine from the Moon. 


Marud Yoga 159 


Chart No. 75.— Bort on 3-3-1894 at 3-16 p.m. (L.M.T) 
Lat. 12° 52° N. ; Long. 74° 54 E. 


Jupiter 


Balance of Sun’s Dasa at i years 2-5-18. 


160. Marud Yoga 


Definition.—Jupiter in 5th or 9th from Venus, the 
Moon in the 5th from Jupiter and the Sun ina 
kendra from the Moon give rise to Marud Yoga. 

Results —Good conversationalist, large-hearted, 
rich, learned, successful businessman, king or equal 
to him and having protruding belly. 

Remarks.—This presupposes the disposition of 
Jupiter, Moon and Venus in mutual thrikonas and 
the Sun in a quadrant from the Moon. Several 
variations of the yoga are possible and the reader 
will do well to study the scope and significance of 
such variations in the light of actual examples. 


160 Three Hundred {mportant Combinations 


Chart No. 76.—Born on 29-2-1932 at 5-30 am. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N. ; Long. 77° 35° E- 


S| 


RASI NAVAMSA = |—_—— 
Saturn Rahu 
14L5 
Moon Lagna | 
t 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 11-4-5. 


Mark the dispositions of Jupiter, Moon and Venus 
in mutual thrikonas and the presence of the Sun ina 
kendra from the Moon causing Marud Yoga. 


161. Saraswathi Yoga 


Definition.—If Jupiter, Venus and Mercury 
occupy Lagna, 2nd, 4th, Sth, 7th, 9th or 10th either 
jointly or severally, Jupiter being in his own, exalta- 
tion or friendly sign, the combination goes under the 
name of Saraswathi Yoga. 

Resuits.—Poet, famous, learned in all sciences, 
skilled, rich, praised by all, and good wife and 
children. 

Remarks.—This above yoga is not a rare one. 
Benefics are to be disposed in any of the 7 houses, 


Budha Yoga 161 


viz., 1st, 2nd, 4th, Sth, 7th, 9th or 10th. If the planets 
are strong, the Yoga will be prominently visible. 
Otherwise it may merge with other more powerful 
yogas. 

Chart No. 77—BSorn on 7-5-1861 at 4-2 a.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 22° 40' N.; Long. 88° 30' E. 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth : years 9-5-22. 

Chart No. 77 is illustrative of Saraswathi Yoga. 
Jupiter is in the Sth, Venus and Mercury are in the 
2nd. Jupiter is exalted. The native enjoyed all the 
blessings of Saraswathi Yoga. 


162. Budha Yoga 


Definition. —Jupiter in Lagna, the Moon in a 
kendra, Rahu in the 2nd from the Moon and the 
Sun and Mars in the 3rd from Rahu. 

Results.—Kingly comforts, powerful, famous, 
aristocratic, learned in sciences, intelligent, and 


devoid of enemies. 
ul 


162 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—Budha Yogacomprehends the strength 
of Lagna and the Moon. When Jupiter is in Lagna, 
the Lagna gains considerable strength. The disposition 
of the Moon in a kendra from Jupiter gives rise to 
Gajakesari Yoga. Rahu’s situation in the 2nd from 
the Moon and the presence of Sun and Mars in 
the 3rd from Rahu (4thfrom the Moon) is said to 
produce Budha Yoga. 


163. Mooka Yoga 


Definition —The 2nd lord should join the 8th 
with Jupiter. 

Results.—The person becomes dumb. 

Remarks.—The yoga does not apply if the 8th 
house happens to be Jupiter’s own or exaltation sign. 
Ganapathi, an ancient astrological writer, includes 
the 12th house also as harmful for the conjunction of 
Jupiter and the 2nd lord. 


164. Netranasa Yoga 


Definition —If the lords of the 10th and 6th 
occupy Lagna with the 2nd lord, or if they are in 
Neechamsa, the above yoga is caused. 

Results.—The native loses’ his eyesight owing to 
the displeasure of the rulers. 

Remarks.—The lords of the 2nd, 6th and 10th 
should all join the Lagna. This implies that one be- 


Andhe Yoga 163 


comes blind due to the wrath of the ruler of the 
Government. But in actual practice such a combina- 
tion makes one blind some time in life. The Sun and 
Moon rule the eyes. When these two planets are 
strongly and favourably situated, one should not 
predict loss of sight. 

Chart No. 78.—Born on 22-8-1915 at 6-30 am. (LS.T.) at 
12° 58° N. 5 77° 34° E. 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 4-10-2. 


In Chart No. 78 combination 164 is present with 
a slight variation. The 10th and 2nd lords are in 
Lagna but the 6th lord Saturn aspects the Lagna 
instead of occupying it. The native lost his sight in 
his 10th year during Chandra Dasa Sani Bhukthi. 


165. Andha Yoga 


Definition —Metcury and the Moon should bein 
the 2nd or the lords of Lagna and the 2nd should 
join the 2nd with the Sun. 


164 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results—The person will have defective sight 
during night or he will be born blind. 

Remarks.—Mercury is the planet of nerves and 
the Moon is the karaka of vision. A conjunction of 
these two planets in the 2nd is held to make one 
nightblind. To be born blind, the 2nd house must be 
occupied by the Sun, the 2nd lord and the lord of 
Lagna. One should use his discretion in the matter 
of assigning the exact strengths of these three planets 
as if the 2nd house happens to be the exaltation 
place of one of the three members of the combina- 
tion, the results will have to be modified. 


166 and 167. Sumukha Yogas 


Definition —The lord of the 2nd should be in a 
kendra aspected by benefics, or benefics should join 
the 2nd house— 166. 

The lord of the 2nd should be posited in a kendra 
which should be his exaltation, own or friendly sign 
and the lord of the kendra should attain Gopuramsa 
—-167. 

Results —The subject will have an attractive and 
smiling face. 

Remarks.—Speech, eyes and facial appearance 
are all signified by the 2nd house. It must follow 
therefore that when the 2nd house and the 2nd lord 
are afflicted, his speech must be harsh, eyesight 
defective, and facial appearance ugly. In reality this 
will not be the case because an ugly looking person 


Duronkha Yogas 168 


may have a polished tongue and clear sight or aman 
of defective vision may have a gifted tongue. In all 
these cases, apart from how a yoga is defined, the 
disposition of the Karaka should receive prime 
consideration. 


168 and 169. Durmukha Yogas 


Definition.—Malefics should occupy the 2nd and 
its lord should join an evil planet or be in debilita- 
tion—168. 

The lord of the 2nd being evil, should join Gulika 
or occupy unfriendly and debilitated Navamsa with 
malefics. —169. 

Results —The person will have an ugly or 
repulsive face and he becomes angry and irritable. 

Remarks.—The intensity of beauty or ugliness of 
the face depends upon the good or evil influences 
which have reference to the 2nd house. Some are 
ugly from birth and some become ugly on account of 
disfiguration by accidents and these accidents happen 
during the periods and sub-periods of the planets 
concerned. 


170. Bhojana Soukhya Yoga 


Definition.—The powerful lord of the 2nd should 
occupy Vaiseshikamsa and have the aspect of Jupiter 
or Venus. 


166 Three Hundred Impo:tant Combinations 


Resulis.—The subject becomes rich and will 
always have good and delicious food. 

Remarks.—Venus is the karaka or indicator of 
bhukth or food. Therefore he should be well placed 
and free from affliction. In all these yogas, the first 
consideration should go to the karaka. 


171. Annadana Yoga 


Definition—The lord of the 2nd should join 
Vaiseshikamsa and be in conjunction with or aspected 
by Jupiter and Mercury. 

Results.—The person will have a hospitable 
nature and will feed a large number of people. 

Remarks.—Annadana or feeding the hungry is 
considered a charitable act amongst the Hindus. 
Human nature is such that man’s thirst for wealth, 
comforts, material possessions, fame and name can 
never be quenched. But when one is hungry and is 
fed sumptuously, one gets really satisfied. Hence the 
sanctity attaching to Annadana. 

The above chart is a typical illustration of combi- 
nation 171. The 2nd lord is Mercury and he is in the 
10th with Jupiter. The subject of the horoscope was 
famous for his generous instincts and for the huge 
charities by way of food he used to give to the 
Brahmins, the poor and the needy. 


Parannabhojana Yoga 167 


Chart No. 79.—Born on 12-2-1856 at 12-21 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. )8° N. ; Long. 84° £. 


Moon ‘ 
| t. 
Rahu Lagna |Saturn| Jupi 


Sun 


Mercury 
Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth : years 6-11-3. 


172, Parannabhojana Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the 2nd should be in 
debilitation or in unfriendly navamsas and aspected 
by a debilitated planet. 

Results. —The person will live upon food doled 
out by others or will be a dependent, 

Remarks.—When one is unable to eke out one’s 
existence, then naturally one must be a dependent 
upon others. If the 2nd lord is in a debilitated 
navamsa, Or in an inimical navamsa, the above result 
holds good. If, in addition to occupying a neecha 
navamsa, the lord of the 2nd is also aspected by a 
neecha planet, then he will be a hater of food. 


173. Sraddhannabhuktha Yoga 


Definition. —If Saturn happens to own the 2nd, 
or join the 2nd lord or if the 2nd is aspected by 
debilitated Saturn, the above yoga is caused. 

Results.—The subject gets food prepared at the 
times of obsequies. 

Remarks.—Much stigma is attached to eating 
food prepared at times of death ceremonies of those 
who are not one’s nearest relatives. Getting such 
food is a misfortune. Saturn should have nothing to 
do withthe 2nd house if one is to be spared this 
misfortune. 


174. Sarpaganda Yoga 


Definitiqn.—Rahu should join the 2nd house with 
Mandi. 

Results.—The person will be bitten by a snake. 

Remarks.—A_ belief is current amongst the 
Hindus that one should be ‘fated’ to be bitten by a 
snake. There seems to be some justification in this 
view. Itis often found that serpents, particularly 
cobras, will turn their faces away when accosted by 
certain persons, while some people will find them- 
selves suddenly bitten in spite of being careful. When 
the 2nd is free from Rahu-Mandi affliction, one need 
not be afraid of ever being bitten by a snake. 


175. Vakchalana Yoga 


Definition.—If a malefic happens to own the 2nd 
joins a cruel navamsa and if the 2nd is devoid of 
benefic aspect or association, the above yoga is 
formed. 

Results.—The native becomes a stammerer. 

Remarks.—Stammering is a great disadvantage 
for a man’s progress and success in life. He cannot 
express himself clearly nor can he impress his point 
upon others. As usual, the 2nd lord is to be afflicted. 
We would like to lay stress on Jupiter rather than on 
the 2nd lord. 


176. Vishaprayoga Yoga 


Definition —The 2nd house must be joined and 
aspected by malefics and the 2nd lord should be in a 
cruel navamsa aspected by a malefic. 

Results.—The person will be poisoned by others. 

Remarks.—Death by being poisoned is a common 
feature generally in court life where rivalries, jea- 
lousies and hatred play a great part in setting people 
against one another. 


177. Bhratruvriddhi Yoga 


Definition —The 3rd lord, or Mars, or the 3rd 
house should be joined or aspected by benefics and 
otherwise strong. 


170 Three Huadred Important Combinations 


Results —The person will be happy on account 
of his brothers who will attain great prosperity. 

Remarks.—Children of the same parents would be 
brothers and sisters when young. As they grow up, 
they become enemies. There may be nobie exceptions 
but as a general rule one would hardly come across 
brothers and sisters amongst whom cordial relations 
exist. Quarre!s arise on account of petty things and 
they assume serious proportions. To have brothers 
and sisters and to be happy with them is indeed a 
fortune. Generally speaking, the 3rd lord should not 
occupy malefic vargas and particularly those of Mars. 
If, however, Mars becomes the lord of the 3rd, the 
stigma loses its sting considerably. Having brothers is 
different from living cordially with them. When the 
Bhava has inherent strength the subject will have 
brothers, but when the Bhava has a number of evil 
vargas, the brothers will be a source of annoyance 

Chart No. 80.—Born on 16-10-1918 at 2-20 p.m. {L.V., } 
Lat. 13° N.; Long. 77° 34' E. 


Kethu | Jupit. 


Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at birth: years 12-10-21. 


Sodaranasa Yoga 17L 


In Chart No. 80 the 3rd house falls in Aries. 
The 3rd from the Moon is free from malefic associa- 
tion or aspect. The 3rd lord is in the 10th bhava. He 
has gained six navamsas. The native has five brothers 
and sisters alive. Unfortunately, the 3rd house has 
acquried the lordship of Mars in all the six vargas. 
Consequently, the relationship is not very cordial 
for no fault of the native. 


178. Sodaranasa Yoga 


Definition —Mars and the 3rd lord should occupy 
the 8th (3rd, 5th or 7th) house and be aspected by 
malefics. 

Results.—The person will be devoid of almost all 
brothers and sisters. 

Chart No. 81.—Born on 22-7-1916 at 8-34 p.m. (I.S.T.) 
Lat. 9° 30' N.; Long. 76° 13’ E. 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Satum 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth : years 16-4-6. 


172 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—Mars is the karaka for brothers. The 
3rd house and the 3rd lord have governance over 
brothers. A happy disposition of these three factors 
is absolutely necessary if one’s brothers are to live. 
According to the above yoga, the presence of Mars 
and the 3rd lord in the 8th denotes that all the bro- 
thers would be destroyed. There is also the suggestion 
that the 3rd, 4th and 7th are also not suitable places 
for Mars or the 3rd lord to occupy. Practical ex- 
perience shows that the disposition of Mars in the 7th 
is not as harmful as in the 8th. A karaka in the 
appropriate bhava is held to give rise to harmful 
results. [am not able to appreciate as to why the 4th 
should be deemed unfit for either Mars or the 3rd 
lord to join. 

Here (Chart No. 81) Mars, the Bhratrukaraka, 
happens to be 3rd lord. He is in the 8th from Lagna, 
further aspected by Saturn. 


179. Ekabhagini Yoga 


Definition Mercury, the lord of the 3rd and 
Mars should join the 3rd house, the Moon and 
Saturn respectively. 

Results.—The person will have only one sister. 

Remarks.—The yoga as given here is restricted in 
its application. A number of variations have to be 
thought of by assuming similar dispositions in the 
navamsa and other shadvargas. The yoga assumes 
fortification of the 3rd house and the 3rd lord and 
the corresponding weakness of Mars. 


180. Dwadasa Sahodara Yoga 


Definition—If the 3rd lord is in a kéndra and 
exalted Mars joins Jupiter in a thrikona from the 
3rd lord, the above yoga is caused. 

Results —The native will be the third out of the 
twelve brothers (and sisters) he will have. 

Remarks.—The yoga is typical inasmuch as it is 
rare. The original construction is confounding. But it 
can be reduced to the simple proposition that in res- 
pect of Gemini, Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius and Pisces, 
the 3rd lord should be in a kendra and Mars and 
Jupiter in conjunction in Capricorn. The other signs 
are to be omitted because the 3rd lord cannot occupy 
a kendra which should be a place of trine from Ca- 
pricorn. When Mars is expected to be in Swa-occha 
with Jupiter, then the only possible place would be 
Capricorn. This should be a trine from the position 
of the 3rd lord, who in his turn should have occupied 
a kendra from Lagna. Taking Aries, lord of the 3rd is 
Mercury. He cannot occupy a kendra consistent with 
such a kendra being a thrikona from Mars-Jupiter 
combination which as per the requirements of the 
yoga isa fixed point. Taurus has to be rejected for 
the same reason. Gemini is a possibility because the 
yoga can arise by the Sun occupying Virgo. Cancer 
has to be ignored while for Leo, Venus can occupy 
Taurus. Virgo, Libra, Capricorn and Aquarius can- 
not be thought of as the lord happens to be either 
Mars or Jupiter. For Scorpio, Saturn can occupy 


174 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Taurus and for Sagittarius, the suitable place is Virgo. 
Thus the yoga is as limited in its application as it is 
rare in its occurrence. 

It is important to remember that in interpreting 
yogas bearing on the number of children, brothers, 
etc., one has to carefully take note of the correct 
social conditions, the facilities available to regulate 
the birth of children, etc. 


Chart No. 82.—Born on 5-11-1937 at 4-24 p.m. (1.S.T.) 
Lat. 13° N.; Long.77° 35° E. 


Mars 
Jupiter 


Venus 
Saturn 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth: years 1-0-25, 


Chart Ne. 82 is clearly illustrative of the above 
combination. The 3rd lord Venus is in the 7th,a 
kendra and exalted Mars has joined (debilitated) 
Jupiter, in a thrikona from the 3rd lord. Jupiter has 
obtained neechabhanga. 


181. Sapthasankhya Sahodara Yoga 


Definition.—Lord of the 12th should join Mars 
and the Moon should be in the 3rd with Jupiter, 
devoid of association with or aspect of Venus. 

Results.—The native will have seven brothers. 

Remarks.—A large number of combinations is to 
be found in traditional astrology bearing on the 
determination of the number of brothers, their 
prosperity and adversity and other peculiarities 
connected with them. Since people possessing a defi- 
nite number of brothers such as seven or twelve are 
not a common phenomenon, combinations bearing 
on this peculiarity are of typical interest. Hence the 
distinction attached to their inclusion in this book. 
Generally, the number of Navamsas gained by the 
lord of the 3rd or Mars determines the number of 
brothers—the surviving ones depending upon the 
number of benefics intervening from the first navamsa 
to the one occupied by the planet in question. 


182, Parakrama Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the 3rd should join a 
benefic navamsa being aspected by (or conjoined 
with) benefic planets, and Mars should occupy 
benefic signs. 

Results.—The subject will possess much courage. 


116 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—By courage is implied preserving one’s 
balance of mind in the face of grave danger to one’s 
own life and interests. The 3rd house is called ‘Para- 
krama’ and hence its lord should occupy a benefic 
navamsa besides receiving the aspect of a good planet. 
Mars should also be similarly situated. If the lord or 
the karaka has a predominance of evil vargas then 
the person becomes very funky. 


Chart No. 83—Born on 14-7-1926 at 3-21 p.m. (1.S.T.) Lat. 
13° N.; Long. 77° 35' EB. 


Saturn 


Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


! 
Kethu 


Jupiter | ©2878 


Lagna | Saturn 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years | 1-9-0. 

In Chart No. 83, the 3rd lord is exalted having 
occupied a benefic navamsa. Saturn is also aspected 
by Jupiter. The native even from a very young age 
was a dare-devil. 


183. Yuddha Praveena Yoga 


Definition —If the lord of the navamsa joined by 
the planet who owns the navamsa in which the 3rd 


Yudha Praveena Yoga 17? 


lord is placed, joins his own vargas, the above yoga 
is caused. 

Results.—The person becomes a capable strategist 
and an expert in warfare. 

Remarks.— The combination is a bit round about. 


First, the 3rd lord is placed in some navamsa; second, 
the owner of this navamsa has joined some other 
navamsa. The lord of this navamsa should occupy 
his own shadvargas. Suppose Lagna is Aquarius, and 
Mars and the Sun are in Leo and Sagittarius nav- 
amsa. Then, the lord of the 3rd being Mars occupies 
Leo; the lord of this navamsa, viz., the Sun is in 
Sagittarius. The lord of this, viz., Jupiter should be 
in his own Varga. When the planets are situated as 
above, then the person will be a clever strategist and 
he will have the knack to give battles in such a way 
as to overcome the resistance offered by the enemy 
without much bloodshed. In this connection, the 
horoscopes of great military commanders may be 
studied with advantage. 

Chart No. 84.—Born on 19-12-1630 at 6-26 p.m. {L.M.T ) 
Lat, 18° 32' N.; Long. 73° 53° E. 


Mercury | Venus Sat. Kethu Sun 
Sun Mars 
Jupiter 
RAS! ——| NAVAMSA 
t PLN. 35 
Keth Saturn |Moon||<28"? 
ethu aturn oon Jupit. Rahu 


Balance of Mars Dasa at birth: years 4-1-17. 
12 


178 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


In Chart No. 84 the 3rd lord Venus is in the 
navamsa of Cancer. The lord of this is in Virgo 
navamsa. The lord of this, viz., Mercury has obtained 
the majority of his own shadvargas. The native was 
an expert in strategy and with his limited resources 
defied the Mughal Emperor, and brought him down 
to his knees. 


184. Yuddhatpoorvadridhachitta Yoga 


Definition.—The exalted lord of the 3rd should 
join malefics in movable Rasis or Navamsas. 

Results.—The person, will be courageous before 
the commencement of the war. 

Remarks.—Evidently, the combination makes it 
clear that until the native actively participates in 
the war, he shows courage but as soon as he gets into 
the actual theatre, he loses his balance of mind, 
becomes funky and beats an ignominous retreat. The 
name of Uttara, a character of Mahabharatha, has 
become proverbial for all those who show initial zeal 
but lose heart as soon as they come into actual grips 
with reality. 


185. Yuddhatpaschaddrudha Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the 3rd should occupy a 
fixed Rasi, a fixed Navamsa and a cruel Shahtiamsa 
and the lord of the Rasi so occupied should be in 
debility. 


Satkathadisravana Yoga 179 


Results.—The person gets courage after the 
commencement of the war. 

Remarks.—Some people get afraid to join military 
service but become sufficiently courageous after 
reaching the battlefield. The lord should be in a fixed 
Rasi and ‘a fixed Navamsa and cruel Shashtiamsa, 
besides the lord of the house occupied by the 3rd lord 
getting debilitated. All the above yogas pertaining to 
courage, valour, strategic proficiency, etc., cannot be 
applied in a literal manner. The underlying principles 
can be extended to apply to day-to-day activities 
inasmuch as one has to come across a large number 
of pitfalls and face critical periods. To come out 
successful from life’s ordeals, one has to be strong- 
minded, courageous and intelligent. There are 
moments in one’s life when one is likely to lose heart 
just because one cannot control the situation. 

Yogas 184 and 185 can be made use of for 
judging one’s capacity to brave odds in life and come 
out successful in trying and hopeless circumstances. 


186. Satkathadisravana Yoga 


Definition—The 3rd house should be a benefic 
sign aspected by benefic planets and the 3rd lord 
should join a benefic amsa. 

Results.—The native will always be interested in 
reading high-class literature and in listening to 
religious discourses. 


180 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—Irrespective of the fact whether or not 
the 3rd house is a benefic sign, the 3rd lord should 
have the aspect of one of the natural benefics. 


187. Uttama Griha Yoga 


Definition.—The iord of the 4th house should 
join benefics in a kendra or thrikona. 

Results.—The subject will possess good houses. 

Remarks.—Possession of a good house is held to 
be a great fortune. Astrological writers attach much 
importance to the lucky or unlucky nature of a house 
a man lives in or owns. Some houses bring in success 
and happiness while some lead the owner to failure 
and misery. This particular yoga indicates the posses- 
sion of a good house. The 4th lord must be strongly 
disposed in a quadrant or trine. The 4th lord must 
be associated with a benefic, or at least receive the 
aspect of a benefic. When the Lagna is not strong, 
the yoga must be applied with reference to Chandra 
Lagna. This is, of course, our opinion though the 
original writers have not said anything specifically 
about this. 

In Chart No. 85 the 4th lord Mercury is exalted 
in the 7th, a kendra and is aspected by Jupiter. 
Mercury is also associated with a benefic Venus, who 
though debilitated has Neechabhagna. The subject 
owns a very good house. 


Vichitra Saudha Prakara Yoga ist 


Chart No. 85.— Born on 24-9-1890 at Gh. 37-10 after Sunrise. 
Lat. 13° N.; Long 77° 35° E. 


NAVAMSA 


“—- 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 7-3-24. 
It must be noted that the yoga given above is not 
exclusively typical. It is one of the important combi- 
nations denoting acquisition of immovable property. 


Venus 


Jupiter Saturn 


188. Vichitra Saudha Prakara Yoga 


Definition.—If the lords of the 4th and 10th are 
conjoined together with Saturn and Mars, the above 
yoga is given rise to. 

Results The person acquires innumerable 
mansions. 

Remarks.—The combination comprehends two 
conditions. First, there must be a conjunction of the 
4th and 10th lords; second, these two planets together 
must join Saturn and Mars. Evidently this is a four- 
planet combination, rather rare of occurrence. Yet 
in regard to Thula, Vrischika, Makara and Simha, 


182 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


these planets cause the yoga, because the 4th lord 
invariably happens to be either Saturn or Mars. 
Likewise in regard to Mesha, Vrishabha, Kataka and 
Kumbha, the yoga could exist due to the conjunction 
of only three planets. Usually Saturn-Mars combi- 
nation is harmful, as it is capable of immense mis- 
chief, but here probably the general rule is excepted. 


Chart No. 86.—Born on 15-12-1899 at 5-42 a.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat, 10° 45'N.; Long. 5h. 16m. 48s. E. 


NAVAMSA 


H.J.H. 30 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Lagna 
Rahu 


Balance of the Sun’s Dasa at birth: years 1-2-12. 


Chart No. 86 illustrates the above yoga. The 
lords of the 4th and 10th are Saturn and Sun respec- 
tively. They are associated with Mars. Here the 
entire combination is purely malefic but for the 
association of Venus. The native possesses quite a 
good number of palatial buildings though the place of 
his own residence is as unpretentious aS could be 
imagined. 


189 and 190. Ayatna Griha Prapta Yogas 


Definition. Lords of Lagna and the 7th should 
occupy Lagna or the 4th, aspected by benefics—189. 

The lord of the 9th should be posited in a kendra 
and the lord of the 4th must be in exaltation, moola- 
thrikona or own house—190. 

Results.—The subject acquires substantial house 
property with hardly any effort. 

Remarks.—It must be a matter of common 
experience that some people will never be able to own 
a house for themselves in spite of their best efforts, 
while others will acquire house property with hardly 
any effort. The causes for such disparity are purely 
astrological. According to cambination 189, the lords 
of Lagna and the 7th should occupy Lagna or the 
4th. If there is no aspect by a benefic, some effort is 
necessary. 

In this case (Chart No. 87) lords of Chandra 
Lagna (Venus) and the 7th (Mars) are posited in the 
4th in association with a benefic. Some effort was 
necessary on the part of the native to own a decent 
residence. There are of course other notable combi- 
nations also, but they are not relevant to the present 
discussion. Combination 190 is simple and does not 
need any elucidation. 


184 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 87.—Born on 8-8-1912 at 7-23 p.m. (L M.T.) Lat. 
13° N.; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Saturn Venus 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 6-0-10. 


191 and 192. Grihanasa Yogas 


Definition —The lord of the 4th should be in 
the [2th aspected by a malefic—191. 

The lord of the navamsa occupied by the lord of 
the 4th should be disposed in the 12th—192. 

Results.—The person will lose all the house 
property. 

Remarks.—These two yogas are very important 
because they give aclue for ascertaining whether one 
would lose one’s property, already acquired or ances- 
tral. The yogas refer to the 4th lord being situated 
in the house of loss. This must evidently imply the 
12th from the 4th and not from Lagna. In other 
words when either the lord of the 4th or the lord of 
the navamsa occupied by the 4th is situated in the 
3rd, there will be loss of house property. 


193 and 194. Bandhu Pujya Yogas 


Definition.—If the benefic lord of the 4th is 
aspected by another benefic and Mercury is situated 
in Lagna, the above yoga is given rise to— 193. 

The 4th house or the 4th ford should have the 
association or aspect of Jupiter— 194. 

Results—The person will be respected by his 
relatives and friends. 

Remarks.—A slight distinction is to be noted in 
the results suggested between the combinations 193 
and 194. The former makes one respected by his 
relatives while the latter makes one loved by his 
relatives. 

In actual practice, it is difficult to differentiate 
between the two. Respect may be shown for one’s 
character, integrity and great qualities of head and 
heart while in showing love, ather considerations may 
set in. The first combination refers to the benefice lerd of 
the 4th. This means that it is applicable to those born 
in Mesha, Mithuna, Kataka, Dhanus and Meena. 
The 2nd combination is more general and broad- 
based. 

In this horoscope, (In chart No. 88) not only is the 
4th house aspected by Jupiter but also the 4th lord is 
in conjunction with Jupiter. The subject of the horos- 
cope was loved and respected by all his relatives and 

friends for his character and generous instincts. All these 
various yogas should never be applied /iterally. There 
are quite a number of other factors to be considered, 


186 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 88.—Born on 12-2-1856 at 12-21 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 18° N.; Long. 84° E. 


Lagna |Saturn]| Jupit. 


Sun 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
—||——_ NAVAMSA 


Moon 
Sun 
Saturn 
Venus 
Mars 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth : years 6-11-3. 


not the least important of which is the predominance 
of the malefic or benefic shadvargas in regard to the 
4th house. 

Take the horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi. He 
was universally beloved and respected. The 4th is a 
malefic sign and Kethu is situated there. But both 
the 4th house and the 4th lord are powerfully aspec- 
ted by Jupiter. Here the terms “benefic and malefic’ 
refer to the inherent nature ofa sign or planet and 
not to the acquired qualities. 


195. Bandhubhisthyaktha Yoga 


Definition.—The 4th lord must be associated 
with malefics or occupy evil shashtiamsas or join 
inimical or debilitation signs. 


Matrudeerghayur Yogs 187 


Results The person will be deserted by his 
relatives. 

Remarks.—-The yoga takes into account three 
circumstances, viz., (a) the 4th lord must be in evil 
shashtiamsa ; (6) he must be associated with malefic 
planets; and (c) he must occupy his place of debili- 
tation or that of an enemy. According to our humble 
experience, much reliance cannot be placed on this 
particular yoga because of its very general nature. 
One possessing this combination could be misunder- 
stood by his associates, friends and relatives, 
ostensibly for no fault of his. 


196 and 197. Matrudeerghayur Yogas 


Definition —A benefic must occupy the 4th, the 
4th lord must be exalted, and the Moon must be 
strong—196. 

The lord of the navamsa occupied by the 4th lord 
should be strong and occupy a kendra from Lagna 
as well as Chandra Lagna—197. 

Results.—The native’s mother will live long. 

Remarks.—These two combinations give a clue 
for ascertaining the longevity of one’s mother. The 
4th lord, the Moon and the 4th house must all be 
strong and free from evil aspects and association. 
Even assuming that the 4th house is afflicted, long 
life for the mother can be predicted if the Moon is 
waxing and occupies a friendly place which should 
be a kendra or a thrikona from the 4th lord. 


198 and 199. Matrunasa Yogas 


Definition—The Moon should be hemmed in 
between, associated with or aspected by evil 
planets—198. 

The planet owning the navamsa, in which the 
lord of the navamsa occupied by the 4th lord is 
situated should be disposed in the 6th, 8th or 12th 
house—199. 

Results —The person’s mother will have a verv 
early death. 

Reniarks—According to combination 198, the 
Mcon should be afflicted in order to render a man 
lose his mother early. Here affliction means, being 
subjected to Papakarthari Yoga, or being aspected 
by or conjoined with malefics. One of the three 
conditions must prevail. If all the three are present, 
the mother will die immediately after the birth of the 
subject. If the Moon is in conjunction with Saturn 
but aspected by Jupiter, or the Moon is in the 4th 
subjected to the above influences, the Yoga for kill- 
ing the mother is there, but the benefic aspect of 
Jupiter delays the event. Added to this disposition, 
if the 4th lord is also afflicted, then early death to 
the mother is inevitable. 

In chart No. 89 the Moon is in the 4th in con- 
junction with Saturn. Jupiter aspects the combination 
but unfortunately the 4th lord Venus is associated 
with Mars in the 4th from the Moon. The mother 
died in the 2nd year of the native. 


Matrunasa Yogas 189 


Chart No. 89.—Born on 8-8-1912 at 7-35 p.m. (.8.T.) 
Lat, 13° N.; Long. 77° 35 E. 


Venus 


Moon 
Saturn 


Saturn 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter Jupiter Mars 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 6-0-10. 

Combination 199 is somewhat round about. Say 
(a) the 4th lord occupies some navamsa; (0) its lord 
is in some other navamsa; (ce) the owner of this 
navamsa must occupy (in the Rasi chart) a position 
which should be the 6th, 8th or 12th from Lagna. 

Chart No. 90 typically illustrates the combination 
in question. (a) The 4th lord is Venus and he is in 
the navamsa of Thula. (5) The lord of this navamsa 
is of course Venus. (c) The third condition becomes 
merged with the 2nd because the navamsa lord 
occupies his own house. Venus is in the 12th from 
Lagna. The native Jost his mother early. 

In Chart No. 91 (a) the 4th lord Venus is in the 
navamsa of Mesha, (6) the lord of this navamsa, 
viz.. Mars is in Simha navamsa, and (c) the lord of 
this navamsa, viz., the Sun is in the 12th from 


190 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 90.—Born on 19-6-1904 at 7-30 a.m. (L M.T.) 
Lar. 13° N.; Long. 76° 9 E, 


Jupiter 
Mercury 


Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Venus 


Saturn 
Mars 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years 15-]1-3. 


Chart No. 91.—Born on 19-1-1913 at 8-30 ani. (1.5.7) 
Lat, 13° N.; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Kethu 


Vers 


| Jupiter 
RAS] 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Mars 


Mercury 


Balance of the Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 3-2-3. 


Lagna. The native lost his mother when he was 
about 9 years during the Bhukthi of Venus (4th lord) 
and the Dasa of Mars. 


200. Matrugami Yoga 


Definition —The Moon or Venus should join a 
kendra in conjunction with or aspected by a malefic, 
and an evil planet should occupy the 4th house. 

Results.—The person will be guilty of committing 
adultery with his own mother. 

Remarks.—No greater sin can be conceived of 
than association with one’s own mother. Unless a 
man is utterly shameless and completely depraved of 
all feelings of conscience, he cannot be guilty of 
such a heinous crime as the one mentioned in this 
combination. Here, by the term mother is implied 
not only the lady who has given birth to the person 
(step-mother also included) but to ladies who are 
held in equalesteem, viz., *the ruler’s wife, precep- 
tor’s wife, brother’s wife, wife’s mother and _ his 
own mother. 

The Moon is the karaka of the mind and also 
mother. Venus is the karaka of sexual passions. 
According to this combination, the Moon and Venus 
should be afflicted in the manner suggested. 

Adultery in any form is a consequence of mental 
filth and therefore both the planets and particularly 
the Moon must be devoid of association or aspect, 
if one is to entertain healthy thoughts. 


* Raja patnee gurah patnee tathaiva cha patnce mata swamata cha 
panchaite matarustatha. 


201. Sahodareesangama Yoga 


Definition —If the lord of the 7th and Venus are 
in conjunction in the 4th house and are aspected by or 
associated with malefics or arein cruel shashtiamsas, 
the above yoga is given rise to. 

Results.—The person will be guilty of intercourse 
with his own sisters: 

Remarks.—The combination is simple and does 
not require further elucidation. Intimacy with a 
sister is as heinous a crime as with a mother ora 
lady equal to a mother but men sometimes behave 
worse than beasts for the gratification of their bestial 
instincts. The best safeguard against any form of 
sexual immorality is an unafflicted disposition of 
Venus. 


202 to 204. Kapata Yogas 


Definition —The 4th house must be joined by a 
malefic and the 4th lord must be associated with or 
aspected by malefics or be hemmed in between 
malefics—202. 

The 4th must be occupied by Sani, Kuja, Rahu 
and the malefic 10th lord, who in his turn should 
be aspected by malefics—203. 

The 4th lord must join Saturn, Mandi and Rahu 
and aspected by malefics—204. 

Results.—The person becomes a hypocrite. 


Kapata Yogas 193 


Remarks.—In my leading articles in THE ASTRO- 
LOGICAL MAGAZINE, I have clearly shown that the 
first-rate malefics, viz., Saturn, Mars and Rahu, 
should occupy such positions in the horoscopes of 
political leaders and statesmen, as would render 
them absolutely harmless. Whenever there is a con- 
junction between Saturn-Rahu, Saturn-Mars and 
Mars-Rahu, the person will always be actuated by 
selfish and mean motives. Generally Kapata Yogas 
are to be found in the charts of diplomats, for diplo- 
macy always implies dignified hypocrisy. The 4th 
rules the heart and the presence there of these 
incendiary planets makes the person conceal his real 
feelings and gives an impure heart. These three 
combinations are of common occurrence in the 
horoscopes of ordinary people. Some are very 
hypocritical by nature and they seldom give out their 
minds. Much more than a malefic afflicting the 4th 
house, the association of Saturn or Rahu with the 
4th lord is not desirable. 

Chart No. 92 is the horoscope of aa impor- 
tant International Pact and not that of an individual. 

The 4th is occupied by Kethu and the 4th lord 
Venus has joined two first-rate malefics the Sun and 
Mars, not relieved by any other benefic influences. 
The chart is clearly indicative of the free expression 
of hypocrisy under the guise of diplomacy, on the 
part of all the celebrated statesmen who joined 
together to sign the pact. 


194 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 92.—Born on 4-4-1949 at 12 noon (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 38° 53° N.; Long. 77° F E. 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter 


Venus! Kethu 


Mars | Mercury aoe 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth : years 3-0-26. 


205 and 206. Nishkapata Yogas 


Definition —The 4th house must be occupied by 
a benefic, or a planet in exaltation, friendly or own 
house, or the 4th house must be a benefic sign—205. 

Lord of Lagna should join the 4th in conjunction 
with or aspected by a benefic or occupy Parvata or 
Uttamamsa.—206. 

Results.—The person will be pure-hearted and 
hates secrecy and hypocrisy. 

Remarks.— According to the above two combina- 
tions, the 4th house must be occupied by a benefic 
or it must have an exalted planet or the sign in the 
4th house must be a friendly one to the planet situa- 
ted there. The combination is very flexible and is 


Matru Satrutwa Yoga 195 


capable of loose interpretation. Just because the 4th 
house happens to be a benefic sign, it cannot make 
one an angel. Oa the contrary, it is the 4th lord that 
we have to look to. So long as the 4th lord does not 
conjoin Rahu or Saturn or if he conjoins, so long as 
there is the aspect of Jupiter or Venus, preferably 
Jupiter, there is no fear of the person being a hypo- 
crite. The above two combinations are given for 
what they are worth. But in our opinion, great care 
must be exercised in applying them to actual horos- 
copes. 


207. Matru Satrutwa Yoga 


Definition —Mercury, being lord of Lagna and 
the 4th, must join with or be aspected by a malefic. 

Results.—The person will hate his mother. 

Reimarks.—Evidently this combination is appli- 
cable only to Mithuna Lagna horoscopes. For in 
regard to no other sign can Mercury become the lord 
of Lagna and the 4th. It occurs to us that when the 
lords of the Navamsas in which the Moon in the 
horoscopes of the mother and son are placed, are 
mutual enemies, cordial feelings do not exist bet- 
ween them. This is only an observation and must be 
further tested before it could be raised to the distinc- 
tion of an astrological principle. 


208. Matru Sneha Yoga 


Definition.—The Ist and 4th houses must have a 
common lord, or the lords of the Ist and 4th must 


196 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


be temporal or natural friends or aspected by 
benefics. 

Results.—Cordial relations will prevail between 
mother and son. 

Remarks.—The ist and 4th houses can have 
common lords only in respect of Mithuna and 
Dhanus. When the lords of Lagna and the 4th are 
mutual friends or Tatkalika friends, the yoga is said 
to prevail. Here also, the relationship between the 
Navamsa lords, adverted to in regard to combination 
207, may be applied with advantage. 


209 and 210. Vahana Yogas 


Definition —The lord of Lagna must join the 4th, 
11th or the 9th—209. 
The 4th lord must be exalted and the lord of the 


exaltation sign must occupy a kendra or trikona—210. 
Results.—The native will acquire material com- 
forts and conveyances. 
Chart No. 93.—Born on 8-8-1912 at 7-23 p.m. (L.M.T.) Lat. 
13° N., Long. 77° 35” E. 


Jupiter Jupiter | Mars 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth : years 6-0-10. 


Anapathya Yoga 197 


Remarks.—In the modern world, vahana must 
refer to bicycles and automobiles and not to the 
time-honoured carriages drawn by horses or palan- 
quins carried by bearers. Any person of average 
means can possess a bicycle, but very few can afford 
to own an automobile. Therefore, there must be 
some distinct combinations present in a horoscope 
to enable the subject to acquire a vahana. The lord 
of Lagna must not only join the 4th, 9th or [lth but 
must be equally strong. Otherwise, the yoga cannot 
function properly. 

The following observations may also be noted :— 

Vahanakaraka is Venus and Vahanasthana is the 
4th. Therefore, if Venus joins the 4th with the 4th 
lord, the person could possess ordinary vehicles. If 
Venus or lord of the 4th is in the 11th or 9th, the 
Dative will possess a number of conveyances. If the 
4th lord is connected with the Moon, then the person 
will have carriages drawn by horses or motor cars in 
modern parlance. 

In Chart No. 93 lord of Lagna Saturn has joined 
the 4th house, while the 4th lord Venus is in the 7th 
in association with Mercury, lord of the 5th (and 8th) 
and Mars, lord of the 10th (and 3rd). The 4th is also 
aspected by Jupiter. The native acquired an auto- 
mobile as soon as Sukra Bhukthi in Guru Dasa 
commenced. 


211. Anapathya Yoga 


Definition—If Jupiter and the lords of Lagna, 
the 7th and the 5th are weak, the above yoga is given 
rise to. 


198 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results.—The person wil! have no issues. 

Remarks.—Birth of children is considered to be 
a great blessing and the feelings of parents, not 
fortunate to get any issues, could better be imagined 
than adequately described. The Hindu considers 
childlessness as a great sin or misfortune and resorts 
to all kinds of vows to get a child. 

Jupiter and the lord of Lagna, the 7th and the 
Sth should all be weak, to make one childless. If 
Jupiter and the Sth lord are strong, then the yoga 
gets somewhat modified. 


212 to 215. Sarpasapa Yogas 


Definition.—The Sth should be occupied by Rahu 
and aspected by Kuja or the Sth house being a sign 
of Mars, should be occupied by Rahu—212. 

If the Sth lord is in conjunction with Rahu, and 
Saturn is in the Sth house aspected by or asssociated 
with the Moon, the above yoga is given rise to—213. 

The karaka of children in association with Mars, 
Rahu in Lagna, and the Sth lord in a dusthana gives 
rise to this yoga—214. 

The Sth house, being a sign of Mars, must be 
conjoined by Rahu and aspected by or associated 
with Mercury—215. 

Results —There will be death of children due to 
the curse of serpents. 

Remarks.—Whether or not we believe in blessings 
and curses, afflictions to the Sth house as per the 


Sarpasapa Yogas 199 


above combinations, are sure to cause premature 
death of children. It must be noted that the common 
factor in all the four yogas mentioned above is the 
affliction of the Sth bhava, karaka or the lord of 
children by Rahu. According to combination 
212, etther the 5th house should be occupied by 
Rahu and aspected by Mars; or the Sth house 
happening to be Aries or Scorpio should have the 
association of Rahu. The latter part of the combi- 
nation is applicable only in respect of Kataka and 
Dhanur Lagnas. Combination 213 which is of a more 
general character is suggestive of severe affliction to 
the 5th house. The 5th lord must join Rahu and 
Saturn must be in the 5th having the aspect or con- 
junction of the Moon. The combination of the 
Moon and Saturn is always indicative of sorrow and 
suffering. When it has reference to the 5th house, it 
clearly implies that one must suffer great sorrow 
owing to the loss of children. 

The karaka for children, viz., Jupiter ts brought 
into the picture in combination 214. He should be 
associated with Mars. Rahu must be itn Lagna and 
the 5th lord should occupy either the 6th, the 8th or 
the 12th. Here it must be noted that the yoga could 
manifest fully only when Jupiter is weak. If he has 
sufficient Shadbala strength. The yoga becomes null 
and void. In a horoscope belonging to a certain young 
man, Jupiter is in the 5th (Cancer) exalted and in 
association with Mars, Rahu is in Lagna and the 
Moon is in Libra. But as Jupiter has obtained 
nearly 8 units of Shadbala strength, the yoga has 
become defunct for all practical purposes. The 


mo Three Hundred Important Combinations. 


native has 2 children living but the evil due to the 
position of the 5th lord, etc., appears to have found 
expression in the shape of the native’s wife having 
had a few abortions. 

Combination 215 is merely a repetition of the 
earlier yoga but the difference that here Mercury is 
brought in and his aspect or association made a 
condition for the presence of the yoga. 


Chart No. 94.—Born on 11-3-1858 at 9 pun, (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N.; Long. 77° 36° E. 


ILagna| Mercury | Moon 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter 
| 


Balance of the Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 7-2-8. 

In Chart No. 94 mark the position of Rahu in 
the 5th, and his being aspected by Mars thus fulfill- 
ing combination 212. Thereare, of course, certain 
telieving features also but they are not of conse- 
quence from the point of view of illustrating this 
particular yoga. 

In Chart No. 95 there is a powerful Sarpasapa 
Yoga (214). Putrakaraka Jupiter is associated with 
Mars, Rahu occupies Lagna and the 5th lord Sun is 
in a dusthana. In spite of the presence of Sarpasapa 


Sacpasapa Yoags 201 


Chart No. 95.—Born on 2-12-1948 at 2-28 p.m. (1.S8.T.) 
Lat. 18° # N.; Long. 83° 26° E. 


| 
| Lagna Moon 
Rahu 
Mars 
Rahu 
ae Jupiter 
— ——) NAVAMSA 
Mandi Sanus 
U. 839 
Moon M 
Jupiter oF Venus Mercury 
Mars un Kethu 


Balance of Kethu Dasa at birth : years 2-8-20. 


Yoga, the inherent strength of Putrakaraka, derived 
by virtue of his situation in his own house and 
association with the Moon forming Gajakesari Yoga, 
acts as an antidote. But we are here concerned only 
with the Sarpasapa Yoga and not its neutralisation. 

A stronger Anapathya Yoga than that present in 
Chart No. 96 cannot be met with. The Sth lord Mars 
is associated with Rahu and Saturn occupies the Sth 
aspected powerfully by the Moon. The yoga is pre- 
sent in toto. And the native will lose quite a number 
of children but the Putrakaraka Jupiter being 
disposed in the 10th, unafflicted, can take away much 
of the sting. 


202 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 96.—Born on 9/10-8-1928 at 4-46 am. (1.8.T.) 
Lat. 25° 22' N. ; Long, 68° 20° E. 


Mars 
Jupiter | Moon Moon | Venus 
Rahu Rae 
Lagna 
RASI NAVAMSA 
P.H. 34 
Kethu ‘ 
Saturn Kethu Jupiter 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 8-5-8. 


216. Pitrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 


Definition.—The Sun must occupy the 5th house 
which should be his place of debilitation, or the 
amsas of Makara end Kumbha, or in between 
malefics. 

Results.-The subject will lose issues on account 
of his father’s wrath. 

Remarks.—The wording of the combination is a 
bit confusing. One of the following three conditions 
can give rise to this yoga: 

(a) The 5th must be occupied by debilitated Sun. 
This is possible only in regard to Mithuna in which 
case the Sun happens to own the 3rd house and 
hence becomes blemished. 


Pitrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 203 


(5) The Sun must join the Sth house, but the 
Navamsa should be Makara or Kumbha. This com- 
bination cannot be applied for persons born in 
Mesha, Simha and Dhanus, because, in respect of 
these three, Makara and Kumbha navamsas cannot 
rise in the Sth house, as the last navamsa ends with 
Dhanus. With regard to Vrishabha, Kanya and 
Makara the Sun’s situation in the 5th house coinci- 
dent with Makara or Kumbha navamsa can happen 
provided the Sun is within 6° 40’ from the beginning 
of the sign concerned. In regard to Mithuna, Thula 
and Kumbha, the Sun’s Sth house position must fall 
within the arc of 10° to 16° 40’ of the sign concerned. 
Similarly, in reference to Kataka, Vrischika and 
Meena the Sun’s Sth bhava position must corres- 
pond to the area between 20° and 26° 40’ of the sign 
concerned. Suppose Vrishabha is Lagna and the 
Sun occupies the Sth degree of Kanya, which is the 
same as the 2nd navamsa, viz., Kumbha. Conditions 
necessary for the fulfilment of the yoga may be said 
to exist in this case. Here again due consideration 
must be given to the fact whether the Sun is actually 
in the Sth house or Sth sign. if latter, the yoga 
cannot exist. Let us assume that the 3rd degree of 
Cancer is Lagna, and the Sth degree of Scorpio rises 
in the Sth house, the Sth bhava ending at the 19th 
degree of Scorplo. If the Sun is in Scorpio 19th 
degree, the combination does not exist because the 
navamsa cannot be Makara or Kumbha. If the Sun is 
in the 21st degree of Vrischika, even then the combina- 
tion cannot hold good because he will be actually in 
the 6th house. These subtle differences due to bhava 


204 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


positions should be carefully balanced before making 
sure that the Yoga really exists. [ may add en 
passant that the mere fact of the Sth house falling in 
the navamsa of Saturn is enough to indicate death 
of children, unless there are other counteracting 
influences. 

In the various combinations dealt with above 
and in the following pages, causes for the death of 
children due to various kinds of curses sapas given 
by parents, brothers, elders and others are enumera- 
ted. Loss of progeny is an irreparable and heart- 
rending misfortune. Blessings and curses work on a 
subtle plane. But the results they produce are often 
demonstrable and remarkable. The mysterious force 
or energy manifests itself inl various ways and curious 
forms. When a man is angry or out of temper, 
reason and logic are generally thrown to the winds 
and the ill-temper discharges itself in various ways. 
Curses are the resultants of various causes proceeding 
from different sorts of temperaments or provocations 
whether they are real or imaginary. There are some 
people born with intense passions developed as a 
result of their previous karma which always find 
expression in inflicting injuries on others. Take the 
case of what is called the ‘evil eye’. Here what 
happens is this: The man has strong passions deve- 
loped in him like the poison of cobra or the sting of 
a scorpion which is able to discharge electric or 
ethereal energy with a tremendous force directed for 
the destruction or the injury of an object. 

Examples illustrating the Sun’s debilitation in 
the Sth house can be had in plenty and therefore 


Pitrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 205 


1 do not propose to give an example for this combi- 
nation. 

In Chart No. 97 the Lagna is Libra and the 5th 
house is occupied by the Sun who joins Makaramsa. 
Therefore, Pitrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga is present. 

(c) The 3rd variation of the yoga is simple. The 
Sun must occupy the 5th house, hemmedin on either 
side by malefics. 

Chart No. 97.—Born on 22-2-1863 at Gh. 39-40. Lat. 
13°.N.; Long. 77 34’ E. 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter Saturo] Jupit. 
Lagna 


Balance of Kethu Dasa at birth: years 1-9-13. 


The following dispositions of planets also con- 
stitute Yoga No. 216: 

(a) The Sun, being lord of the Sth, should 
occupy a trine, and be hemmed in between or aspec- 
ted by malefics. Evidently this combination can 
hold good only for Mesha Lagna. 

(6) Jupiter’s disposition in Leo, the association 
of the Sth lord with the Sun and the 5th and Lagna 
being occupied by malefics—children die on account 
of the father’s wrath. 


206 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


(c) If Mars as lord of the 9th joins the Sth lord 
and malefics occupy Lagna and the trikonas, death 
of children due to father’s curse should be predicted. 

In the practical application of these yogas, one 
should use one’s power of discretion, taking into 
consideration the fact whether or not the 5th house 
as such is strongly disposed. 


217. Matrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 


Definition —If the 8th lord is in the 5th, the 5th 
lord is in the 8th and thee Moon and the 4th lord 
join the-6th, the above yoga is givén rise to. 

Results.—There will be loss of children due to 
the curse of the mother. 

Remarks.—The depth of Indian astrological lore 
is clearly revealed by the innumerable number of 
combinations given by the sages for the happening 
of event like the death of children. Such a variety of 
yogas appears to be absolutely necessary, in view of 
the fact that children die on account of various 
causes. 

In the yoga under consideration, there must be 
Parivarthana between the 5th and 8th lords, and the 
Matrukaraka Moon and the Matrusthanadhipathi 
(lord of the 4th house) should join a dusthana like 
the 6th. For Simha and Kumbha Lagnas, the yoga 
cannot operate as the same planet happens to own 
both the Sth and 8th houses. 


Mairusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 207 


Chart No. 98.—Born on 18-11-7900 at 4-17 p.m. (L.MT.) 
Lat, 13° N. ; Long. 77° 35° E- 


Mars 


Saturn 
Moon 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 0-9-13. 


Here is a typical horoscope illustrating combina- 
tion 217. Lords of the Sth and 8th have interchanged 
places. The 2nd part of the yoga can also be said to 
exist as the Moon happening to be lord of the 4th is 
posited in the 6th. 


218. Bhratrusapa Sutakshaya Yoga 


Definition.—-The lords of Lagna and the Sth 
must jointhe 8th and the lord of the 3rd should 
combine with Mars and Rahu in the Sth. 

Results.—There will be death of children due to 
curses from brothers. 

Remarks,—In this yoga, some sort of connection 
has been brought about between lord of Lagna, Sth, 
3rd, 8th, Rahu and Bhratrukaraka Mars. The 


208 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


principle enumerated in this yoga may be extended 
to include a few variations in the dispositions sugges- 
ted. The 5th lord in association with Mars, or Mars 
and Rahu in the 5th, may also give rise to the same 
yoga. Here, what is of importance is the connection 
between 5th and 3rd houses and Mars in such a way 
as to cause affliction to the Sth house. 


219. Pretasapa Yoga 


Definition —The Sun and Saturn in the 5th, weak 
Moon in the 7th, Raha in Lagna and Jupiter in the 
12th give rise to Pretasapa Yoga. 

Results —Children will die through the curses of 
Pretas or manes of the dead. 

Remarks.—The individual soul just after its 
release from the mortal coil is supposed to be in a 
state of transition for the period of the death cere- 
monies which generally lasts for two weeks. The dis- 
embodied soul in this state of transition is termed 
Preta. It is held that the Preta reaching a higher or 
lower plane of existence, consistent with its karma 
during its sojourn on theearth, depends entirely 
upon the satisfactory performance of the obsequies 
by the sons or dependents of the deceased concerned. 
When these ceremonies are not properly performed, 
the Preta is denied safe-conduct in the ethereal 
regions with the result curses are sent to the persons 
responsible for such omission. The yoga in question 
reveals death of children from the curses of such 


Pretasapa Yoga 209 


Pretas. Whether or not we believe in such things 
death means disappearance of some mysterious force 
from the physical body and this subtle force cannot 
go to nothingness nor could it have come from 
nothingness. It is far more reasonable to suppose 
that the soul or the subtle aspect of existence moves 
on toa different plane, invested with karma done 
during its sojourn on the earth plane. The sages must 
have seen the further evolution of the soul, after 
death here, through intuition, and because known 
laws of science cannot explain the mysteries of life 
and death it does not mean that existence ends with 
physica) death. 

When the weak Moon isin the 7th, Rahu is in 
Lagna, and the Sun and Saturn are in the Sth, the 
Moon becomes subject to a series of afflictions— 
Kethu’s association, Rahu’s aspect and Saturn’s 
aspect. The Moon-Rahu-Saturn connection, in any 
form, is always indicative of the influences of what 
are generally known as devils, spirits, ghosts and 
other destructive denizens. 

In Chart No. 99, the Sun and Saturn are in the 
5th. The Moon, in this case weak, is in the 7th with 
Mars and Kethu. Jupiter isinthe {2th and Rahu 
occupies Lagna. The yoga is powerful, and there are 
absolutely no relieving features. We can anticipate 
death of almost all issues that may be born to the 
subject. 


14 


210 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 99.—Born on 28-6-]914 at 9-57 p.m. (1.S.T.) 
Lat. 13° N. ; Long, 77° 35° E. 


Mars 
Lagna 
Rahu 
NAVAMSA — 
Mercury 

Jupiter Kethu 
Moon 

Lagna Jupiter 


Saturn 


Balance of Venus Dasa at birth: years [6-2-3. 


220 and 221. Bahuputra Yogas 


Definition.—Rahu in the 5th house, in a Navamsa 
other than that of Saturn, gives rise to this yoga 
—220. 

The same yoga arises if the lord of the Navamsa 
occupied by a planet who is in association with the 
7th lord is in the 1st, 2nd or 5th house—221. 

Results.—The person will have a large number 
of children. 

Remarks.—Nature is full of anomalies. Side by 
side with persons who are longing for issues, there 
are people who have any number of children and who 
are unable to rear them due to financial and other 
misfortunes. A perfectly normal couple, perfect in 


Bahuputra Yogas 2i1 


the sense of sexual compatibility, is denied the birth 
of even a single issue thus demonstrating fully the 
law of karma and its mysterious manifestations. 

Combination 220 is highly important because of 
the fact that it isan exception of the general rule 
that the 5th house should not be occupied by Rahu. 
It is only in the Navamsa of Saturn that Rahu’s 
disposition is held to be harmful. Combination 220 
is almost the same as combination 216 but with the 
difference that instead of the Sun, Rahu is brought 
in. 

Combination 221 is a bit confusing. It may be 
explaind thus: Some planet is in association with the 
7th lord. This associate occupies a certain Navamsa 
and the lord of this Navamsa should be posited in 
the Ist, 2nd or Sth house. Say, for example, Aquarius 
is Lagna, and the 7th lord, viz., Sun is with Mars, 
who in his turn occupies the Navamsa of Dhanus 
and the lord of this Navamsa should, in order to 
give rise to this yoga, occupy either Kumbha, 
Mithuna or Meena. 


Chart No. 100.—Born on 30-8-$927 af 12-30 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 21° N ; Long. 72° 50° E. 


Lagna 
Saturn 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 3-8-21. 


212 Three Hundred {mportant Combinations 


Chart No. 100 illustrates combination 221. Mars 
is in association with the lord of the 7th. The lord 
of the Navamsa occupied by Mars, viz., Saturn is 
in Lagna. Hence, the yoga is present. 


222 and 223. Dattaputra Yogas 


Definition.—Mars and Saturn should occupy the 
5th house and the Jord of Lagna should be in a sign 
of Mercury, aspected by or im association with the 
same planet-—222. 

The lord of the 7th must be posited in the 11th, 
the 5th lord must join a benefic and the 5th house 
must be occupied by Mars or Saturn—223. 

Results.—Fhe person will have adopted children. 

Remarks.—According to Hindu beliefs, if a man 
does not have issues born to htm, he should adopt 
ason with a view not only to continuing the line 
but also to be helpful to the person during his old 
age. Several species of combinations to be found are 
given tn ancient astrological books but here we have 
given only two typical ones. Combination 222 
requires that Mars and Saturn should be in the 5th 
house. This means the affliction of the house of 
children. The disposition of the lord of the asscen- 
dant in the sign of Mercury or his association with, 
or his being subjected to the aspect of Mercury, may 
deprive the native of the power to procreate as 
Mercury is a neutral planet. 


Dattaputra Yegas 223 


The last part of combination 223 and the Ist part 
of combination 222 are more or less the same. In 
addition to this, lord of the 7th must be in the {Ith 
and the Sth lord must conjoin a benefic. The 
retionale of these combinations is not clear. But 
horoscopes, in which these yogas are present, 
generally show the results attributed. 

Chart No. 101.—Born on 22-1-1914 at 6-40 am. (1S.T.) 
Lat 13° N.; Long. 80° 14° E. 


Mars | |Mere. Lagna Raho 


Saturn 


-+—— 
| Venus Saturn 


NAVAMSA iz 


Moon | Moon| Kethu 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth : years 14-4-19. 


Here is an illustration of combination 223. Lord 
of the 7th Moon isin the [Ith; the Sth lord Venus 
joins a benefic and Saturn occupies the Sth. 


224. Aputra Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the 5th house should 


occupy a dusthana. 
Results —The person will have no issues. 


214 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—This is a general combination denot- 
ing birth of no children at all: In some of the yogas 
dealt with earlier, combinations are suggested for the 
Joss of children due to various causes. But Aputra 
Yoga reveals that there will be no birth of issues at 
all. Dusthanas are the 6th, 8th and 12th. The lord of 
the 5th should not join any of these houses. Chart 
No. 102 is typically illustrative of Aputra Yoga. 

Chart No. 102..—Born on 3/-7-1910 at Gh. 32-15 after 
swirise, Lat 8° 44’ N ; Long. 77°44 E 


Jupiter 


Mars |{ Rahu 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 7-3-18. 

It must be noted that the combination sketched 
above is of a very general character and it should not 
be literally applied without making a thorough 
examingtion of the 5th house and its relative strength 
and weakness. 


225. Ekaputra Yoga 


Definition.—Lord of the Sth house should join a 
kéndra or trikona. 
Results.—The person will have only one son. 


Suputra Yoga 215 


Remarks.—The combination is simple and calls 
for no explanation. Most of these yogas bearing on 
the Sth house cannot be applied verbatim. The 5th 
house must be carefully studied and if there are any 
serious afflictions, then alone the loss of children 
should be anticipated. 

These yogas help us to form a rough estimate of 
the dispesition of the Sth house, but it is the intrinsic 
strength or weakness of the house that really gives 
us all the details about the Sth house, whether one 
will have issues and if so, how many will survive and 
what will be their future, etc. 


226. Suputra Yoga 


Definition.—If Jupiter is lord of the 5th house 
and the Sun occupies a favourable position, this yoga 
is caused. 

Results.—The native will have a worthy son. 

Remarks.—An object which, in the beginning, is 
a source of pleasure, may eventually become a source 
of pain. A son generally sought after by the 
majority of human beings, a source of extreme joy 
as a child, may cause, when grown up, lot of misery 
and suffering to the parents provided the combination 
referred to above or a variation of it is not present 
in one’s horoscope. The yoga in question is applicable 
only in respect of Simha and Vrischika Lagnas, as it 
is only with regard to these that Jupiter can own the 
5th and not for persons born in other lagnas. It 


216 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


occurs to us that when the lord of the Sth house 
or the Sth house itself has a number of benefic 
vargas, the son will be a beacon light to the family. 


227 and 228. Kalanirdesat Putra Yogas 


Definition—Supiter should be in the Sth house 
and the lord of the Sth should join Venus—227. 

Jupiter must also occupy the 9th from Lagna 
and Venus should be in the 9th from Jupiter, in 
conjunction with the lord of Lagna—228. 

Results —The native begets a son either in his 
32nd, 33rd or 40th year. 

Remarks.—These two yogas enable us to predict 
the probable period when one will have a son. If 
Jupiter is in the Sth and Venus is in conjunction with 
the Sth lord, birth of a son in one’s 32nd or 33rd year 
can be predicted, provided the appropriate directional 
influences operate at the time the native reaches the 
above age; otherwise the yoga will not be valid. 

Combination 228 says that Jupiter must be inthe 
9th from Lagna and Venus must be in the 9th from 
Jupiter. This is as good as saying that Venus must be 
in the Sth from Lagna. One born in this yoga will 
have a son in his 40th year, provided the appropriate 
Dasa and Bhukthi are current. 


229 and 230. Kalanirdesat Putranasa Yogas 


Definition—Rahu must occupy the Sth house, 
the lord of the Sth must bein conjunction with a 
malefic and Jupiter should be debilitated—229. 


Kalanirdesat Putranasa Yogas 217 


Malefics should be disposed inthe 5th from 
Jupiter and Lagna—-230. 

Results —The person will suffer loss of issues in 
his 32nd and 40th years respectively. 

Remarks.—These two combinations enable us to 
predict loss of sons at certain years of one’s life. For 
one to lose a sonin his32nd year, Rahu should 
occupy the Sth, whose lord should have association 
with evil planets and Jupiter must get debilitated. In 
other words, allthe three factors bearing on the 
house of children, viz., the house, the lord and the 
karaka must have some sort of affliction. In actual 
practice, such a yoga has been found to give rise to 
more serious effects than those ascribed in classical 
works. For instance, we have a number of horos- 
copes in our collections, containing this combination, 
and the results in almost all cases have been either 
still-birth: or death of all the children within the first 
year of their birth. This is a peculiar phenomenon 
we have noticed. 

Combination 230 is more general. If a malefic is 
present in the Sth from Lagna and also from Jupiter, 
there will be loss of an issue inthe 32nd or 40th 
year. In actual! practice, this combination appears to 
manifest in the shape of a fewchildren dying and a 
few issues surviving. 

Whenever an affliction by way of a malefic occu- 
pying a certain house or joining with a certain planet 
is suggested, by implication an aspect is also meant, 
though an affliction caused by aspect is compara- 
tively less malevolent. 


218 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 103.—Born on 23-10-1883 at 10 a.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 12° N. ; Long. 76° 38 E. 


Saturn 


Kethu | Saturn 


Mercury 
Kethu 


NAVAMSA 


Moon 


Sun Mars 
Jupiter 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth : years 7-5-6. 

In Chart No. 103 the 5th from Lagna is occupied 
by Kethu and aspected by Rahu while the 5th from 
Jupiter is equally afflicted by the aspect of Saturn. 
The horoscope clearly illustrates the above combi- 
nation. 


231. Buddhimaturya Yoga 


Definition.—If the 5th lord, being a benefic, is 
either aspected by another benefic or occupies a 
benefic sign, the above yoga is given rise to. 

Results—The person will be a man of great 
intelligence and character. 

Remarks.—The Sth lord can be a benefic only in 
regard to Vrishabha, Mithuna, Simha, Vrischika, 
Makara, Kumbha and Meena. If the definition is 
literally interpreted, then the yoga cannot operate in 


Buddhimaturya Yoga 219 


respect of the remaining five signs. Conversely it 
means that persons born in Mesha, Kataka, Kanya, 
Thula and Dhanus cannot become intelligent or men 
of character. Such a suggestion would be preposte- 
rous especially in view of the fact that several 
geniuses and men of great integrity have been bornin 
signs for which the Sth house can never be a benefic 
sign. Therefore, the yoga may be deemed to be 
present in case the 5th house, irrespective of its being 
a benefic or a malefic sign, is occupied by benefics 
and Sth lord is in association with Jupiter, Mercury 
and Venus. 

Chart No. 104 is the horoscope of a retired 
Judge. Mark the unique disposition of the Sth house, 
it being occupied by Venus its own lord and Mercury 
lord of (the 6th and) 9th. The native isa man of 
great intelligence and integrity. Even at this advanced 
age, his powers of memory and comprehension are 
extraordinarily good. 

Chart No. 104.—Born on 5-5-1871] at 11-14 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N., Long 76° 9 E. 


Mercury Hupit. 
Venus [{Rahu 
Kethu 
NAVAMSA 
Moon 
Mandi 
Mars | Jupiter beter 
Sun atu 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth : years 17-10-10. 


220 Three Hundred Importart Combinations 


Chart No. 105.— Born on 12-2-1856 at 12-21 pn. (L.M.T ) 
Lat. 18° N.. Lone. 84° E 


i Lagna 
Saturn’ agua ; Rahu 
| Jupiter | 
| 
Sun 
Mercury 
Jupiter l 
sf NAVAMSA ———_- 
| 
al EE 
Venus Mars Merc. Saturn | 
Kethu ene Venus | 
dun | 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at at birth : years 6-8-12. 


Chart No. 105 is that of late Prof. B. Suryanarain 
Rao. The 5th house is Virgo, the sign of a benefic 
planet, while the 5th lord Mercury is in the 10th in 
association with benefic Jupiter. It is a matter of 
common knowledge that the Professor was an extra- 
ordinarily intelligent man and had retained his great 
intellectual faculties until the day of his death. 
Noble-hearted and incorruptible, he was a great 
philanthropist and delighted himself in helping the 
poor and the needy. His moral stature won for him 
great respect both from relatives and friends. All 
these qualities are not a little due to the strength the 
5th Jord has derived by virtue of his association with 
the philosophical and intellectual planet Jupiter. 


232. Theevrabuddhi Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the navamsa, in which 
the lord of the Sth is placed, should be aspected by 
benefics, and the Sth lord himself should be a benefic. 

Results.—The person will be precociously intelli- 
gent. 

Remarks.—This combination is to be usually 
found in the horoscope of geniuses. It occurs to me 
that the suggestion in the 2nd part of the yoga, that 
the 5th lord should be a benefic, is not warranted. 
Because, in actual practice, we find that the Sth lord 
should have good associations or aspects, irrespective 
of his being a natural malefic or natural benefic. 
According to the yoga in question the lord of the 
Navamsa occupied by the Sth lord should receive the 
aspect of a benefic. The yoga can be assumed to be 
present even if the said Navamsa lord is in conjunc- 
tion with a natural benefic. 

In the following horoscope, the Sth lord, viz., 
Venus isin a benefic Navamsa. The lord of this 
Navamsa, viz., Mercury is in the 2nd house in asso- 
ciation with two first-rate benefics. 

Consequently Theevrabuddhi Yoga may be said 
to be present. The native isa manof very great 
intelligence, an astute politician, an able lawyer and 
a brilliant writer. 


222 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 106.—~Born on 20/21-2-1879 at 4-50 am. 
(L.M.T.) Lat. 10° 43’ N. ; Long. 76° 43° E. 


Saturn 


Sun 
Venus 
Moon 

Merc 
Jupiter 


Lagna 
Rahu 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at birth : years 14-6-29, 


233. Buddhi Jada Yoga 


Definition.—If the lord of the Ascendant is con- 
joined with or aspected by evil planets, Saturn occupies 
the 5th and the lord of Lagna is aspected by Saturn, 
the above yoga is caused. 

Results —The person will be a dunce. 

Remarks.—All the various yogas enumerated in 
these pages comprehend two basic conditions, viz., 
(1) the benefic disposition of the karaka, lord or 
bhava of the signification concerned and, (2) afflic- 
tion to either or all of the three factors concerned. 
Since cach bhava comprehends more than one event, 
one should very carefully analyse the bhava con- 
cerned in order to locate the particular event in- 
volved in an affliction or benefic disposition. In the 


Buddhi Jada Yoga 223 


yoga under consideration which is supposed to indi- 
cate dullness of intellect, a connection is envisaged 
between Saturn, Lagnadhipathi and the 5th house. 
The same combination is also capable of a different 
interpretation, viz., the death of children. But if 
Jupiter, the karaka for children, is well placed, the 
person may have children who may remain dunces. 
Intellectual bankruptcy is not the sole monopoly of 
people having no issues. What 1 wish to impress 
upon my readers is that a snap-shot judgement be- 
cause a certain yoga if present, is always a dangerous 
thing. A beginner should never attempt predictions 
where he will be required to deal with the house of 
children, house of death or house of wife, until he 
has gained sufficient practical experience. 

Chart No. 107.—Born on 26-6-1920 at 2-6 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 24° 54’ N. ; Long. 4th. 28m. E. 


Lagna | Kethu 


Balance of Jupiter’s Dasa at birth: years 11-10-17. 
Chart No. 107 belongs to a man whose mental 
dullness almost borders on insanity. With Jupiter 
exalted and in conjunction with Mercury, the native 


224 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


should have become a man of very great intelligence. 
But contrary is the case. The Sth lord Moon is in 
conjunction with Mars and Rahu, aspected by Saturn 
from an inimical sign. A more malefic combination 
cannot be conceived. The subject whiles away his 
time like a child. He cannot think, he cannot use 
intelligence and sometimes he behaves like a mad 
man. 


234. Thrikalagnana Yoga 


Definition —Jupiter should occupy Mrudwamsa 
in his own navamsa, or Gopuramsa and be aspected 
by a benefic planet. 

Results.—The native becomes capable of reading 
the past, present and future. 

Remarks.—An astrologer with the aid of his art 
can read the past, present and future. But here the 
reference is to Thrikalagnana or the faculty of seer- 
ship which enables aman intuitively to prophesy 
things. This particular yoga can be assumed to be 
present if (a) Jupiter being in his own Navamsa has 
obtained Mrudwamsa or (b) being in Gopuramsa is 
aspected by a benefic. 

Readers must be aware of the Shashtiamsa or 
1/60th division of a Rasi. Mrudwamsa will be the 
19th part (9 to 93°) of this division in an odd sign 
or the 42nd (203 to 21°) part in an even sign. Jupiter 
can have Mrudwamsa in his own Navamsa, provided 
his longitude is between 9 and 9!° in Mithuna, 


Thrikalsgnana Yoga 


Thula or Kumbha. When he is in any other sign 
other than the above, he cannot have Mrudwamsa 
consistently with his situation in a Swa-navamsa 
because of the fact that 20} to 21°, which means 
the 7th navamsa, can never fall under Jupiter. 

The other combination denoting the same yoga 
requires the situation of Jupiter in Gopuramsa. A 
planet is said to attaian Gopuramsa if he occupies 
his own varga four times. Suppose Jupiter is in the 
first degree of Dhanus, then he occupies his own 
Rasi, his own Drekkana, his own Chaturthamsa and 
his own Sapthamsa, having attained his Swavarga 
four times. 

The following horoscope is illustrative of the 
presence of Thrikalagnana Yoga. 

In the following chart JSupiter’s longitude being 
9° 16’ in Thula, an odd sign, he occupies his own 
Navamsa consistent with the longitude falling in a 
Mrudwamaa : 

Chart No, 108.--Born on 30-9-1946 at $-30 a.m. (U.S.T.) 
Lat, 25° N. ; Long. 82° 30° E. 


——— RASI aes | Sans 
Mars 
9.16 
Mars Sun 
Moon Moon 


Kethu 


Jupiter |Merc. | Jupit. ; Satura 
Venus |Lagna | 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth: years 12-11-18. 
15 


235. Putra Sukha Yoga 


Definition — When the Sth is occupied by Jupiter 
and Venus, or when Mercury joins the 5th, or the 
5th happening to be the sign of a benefic, is occu- 
pied by benefics, Putra Sukha Yoga exists. 

Results.—_There will be happiness on account of 
children. 

Remarks.—The yoga is very flexibly defined. The 
5th house must be the sign of a benefic (Mercury, 
Jupiter, Venus) and occupied by a benefic, or even 
without the 5th being a benefic sign, mere Jupiter 
and Venus there could also give rise to the same 
yoga. In other words, the yoga assumes the general 
strength of the Sth house. To become happy on 
account of children is indeed a great fortune. Many 
hearts have ached because of dislike, disobedience 
or disrespect on the part of grown-up children 
towards their parents. 


236. Jara Yoga 


Definition —The 10th house must be occupied by 
the lords of the 10th, 2nd and 7th. 

Results.—The person will have extra-marital 
relations with a number of women. 

Remarks.—There are several combinations for 
making onea Jara ora debauchee and the yoga 


Jara Yoga 227 


herein described is one such. In interpreting such 
yogas, one should exercise great care and skill. I am 
not able to follow as to how lords of the 2nd, 7th 
and 10th in the 10th could make one loose in sex 
life. Suppose the Lagna is Kanya, then the lords of 
the 2nd, 7th and 10th would be Venus, Jupiter and 
Mercury. When all these three join in the 10th, the 
subject must be very strict and principled in regard 
to his sex-relations though Mercury-Venus conjunc- 
tion will also render him sensual. With due deference 
to the Sages who have formulated this yoga, we have 
to observe that unless the 7th lord happens to be 
Mars or Venus and unless the conjunction happens 
in the 10th, it is not advisable to conclude that the 
person concerned would be of questionable charac- 
ter. Mars and Venus in the 7th make one highly 
passionate. When there is a benefic aspect on this 
combination, the over-sexuality is tempered conside- 
rably and the person confines his appetites within 
reasonable bounds. 


Chart No. 109.—Born on 10-6-1910 at 3-20 pm. (LS.T.) 
Lat, 13° N ; Long. 77° 35 E. 


in 
Satur Rahu 


Su 
erc. Jupiter 
{-—||-— 


Venus Mercury 


Nt] Raho 


NAVAMSA 


Kethu | Lagna |Jupit. 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth: years 15-3-16. 


228 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


This horoscope typically illustrates Jara Yoga. 


237. Jarajaputra Yoga 


Definition.—Powerful lords of the 5th and the 
7th must join with the lord of the 6th and be aspec- 
ted by benefics. 

Results —The person lacks the power of procrea- 
tion but his wife will have a son from another man. 

Remarks.—This is very important yoga inasmuch 
as it enables one to ascertain whether an issue is 
really the product .of one’s own seed or the result of 
illegitimate intimacy of one’s wife with another per- 
son. According to this yoga, both the husband and 
the wife will be guilty of extramarital adventures, 
because the husband will be attached to other women, 
while the wife will have her own way of seeking 
illegitimate gratification of her baser instincts. When 
both the husband and wife prove ungrateful to each 
other, children born to such parents cannot be 
expected to be morally strong. 


238. Bahu Stree Yoga 


Definition.—If the lords of the Lagna and the 7th 
are in conjunction or aspect with each other, the 
above yoga is given rise to. 


Bahu Stree Yoga 229 


Results.—The person will have any number of 
wives. 

Remarks.—Man’s sexual appetites are various 
and curious and express themselves in strange and 
uebelievable manners. There are people who are 
scrupulously clean mentally and physically that 
women other than their own wives are always consi- 
dered equal to their own mothers and sisters. There 
are others apparently respectable but thoroughly 
immoral, who hunt after all sorts of dirty women to 
have their bestial instincts gratified. Even though the 
yoga is said to indicate a ‘number of wives’, in actual 
practice it should be interpreted to mean that the 
person would be in intimacy with a number of 
women. The following is a typical horoscope illustra- 
tive of man’s depravity of character. 

In Chart No. 110 the 7th lord Mars and the 
Lagna lord Venus are in mutual aspect besides being 

Chart No. 110.—Born on 6-4-1886 at about 6-30 p.m. 
(L.M.T.) Lat. 17° 30° N., Long. 78° 30° E. 


Mcon A 
Sun Mercury Saturn|Jupit. | Mercury} Kethu 
Kethu 
Sun 
Venus : 
RASI | NAVAMBA 
Rahu || Sat. Mars 
3.100 Mars ||Venus 
Lagna Moon 


Lagna Jupit. a Rahu 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years 11-9-9. 


230 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


associated with the shadowy planets Rahu and Kethu. 
The 7th lord Mars is aspected by Saturn also. The 
native who has a flexible conscience was reputed to 
have a number of wives. 

The yoga is also said to arise when the lord of 
the 9th is in the 7th, the lord of the 7th is in the 4th 
and the lord of Lagna or the lord of the 11th isin a 
kendra. Some of these yogas seem very simple but 
their practical application is always a matter of great 
risk and difficulty. 


239. Satkalatra Yoga 


Definition. —The lord of the 7th or Venus should 
join or be aspected by Jupiter or Mercury. 

Results.—The native’s wife will be noble and 
virtuous. 

Remarks.—Nobility of character is a precious 
commodity not easily to be found in the majority of 
people—men or women. The wife of one having the 
above combination will be a woman of strict moral 
discipline, god-fearing and attached to her husband. 
Modern eves would not perhaps like to have such 
combinations present in their husbands’ horoscopes ! 
Under a false sense of equality, there are some res- 
pectable (?) women, within our knowledge, who are 
worse than public prostitutes, and who are ever 
prepared to sell their honour just to get the appella- 
tion of society cocks. 


Satkalatra Yoga 2 


In Chart No. 111, note 7th lord Mars occupying 
the Ascendant with two benefics Venus and Mercury. 
The native’s wife was an ideal, chaste and devoted 
lady who regarded her husband as her god. 

Chart No. 141.—Born on 2-10-7869 at 7-45 a.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 217° 37' W., Long. 69° 49° E. 


Sun 


Jupiter Venus Mars 


NAVAMSA eres: 


Balance of Kethu Dasa at birth : years 6-10-28. 


Chart No. 112.—Born on 18-11-1943 at 1-43 am, (EL M.T.) 
at 17° 20° N., 78° 30° E. 


Venus 
Jupiter 


Mars |Saturn 


NAVAMSA 


Saturn Mcon 


Balance of Saturn Dasa at birth: years 8-9-83. 


232 Three Hundred Impartant Combinations 


Neither the 7th lord Jupiter nor Venus come 
under any benefic influences. There is very little 
understanding between the native and his wife which 
has resulted in separation. 


240. Bhaga Chumbana Yoga 


Definition. If the lord of the 7th is in the 4th in 
conjunction with Venus, the above yoga is caused. 

Results.—The person will indulge in Bhaga 
Chumbanea (caressing the pudendum muliebre). 

Remarks.—The same result may also be antici- 
pated in case Lagna lord:is debilitated in the Rasi 
or in the Navamsa. 


241. Bhagya Yoga 


Definition.—A strong benefic should be in Lagna, 
the 3rd or Sth, simultaneously aspecting the 9th. 

Results.—The subject will be extremely fortunate, 
pleasure-loving and rich. 

Remarks.—Two conditions are specified for the 


occurrence of this yoga, viz., a strong benefic must 
occupy Lagna, the 3rd or Sth. It must at the same 


time aspect the 9th. Obviously, Jupiter alone can 
cause yoga when in Lagna, or in the Sth house for 
no other benefic can be in Lagna and aspect the 9th. 
Any benefic planet can cause the yoga from the 3rd 


Jananatpurvam Pitru Marana Yoga 233 


house Here also due consideration must be given to 
the nature of the ownership of the benefic concerned 
before actually evaluating the yoga. Cancer Lagna 
with Jupiter there constitutes a powerful Bhagya 
Yoga as Jupiter, as lord of the 9th, aspects the 9th 
and occupies Lagna in exaltation. The same yoga 
forming from Mithuna becomes almost ineffective 
because of Kendradhipatya dosha for Jupiter. Con- 
sideration of the temporal nature of a benefic is not 
suggested in the original but it is clearly implied that 
the potency of the yoga should be based upon the 
sum-total of the strength of the benefic concerned, 
for the yoga rests on the presence of a strong benefic 
in Lagna, the 3rd or Sth. 


242. Jananatpurvam Pitru Marana Yoga 


Difinition.—The Sun must be in the 6th, 8th or 
12th; lord of the 8th must be in the 9th; lord of the 
12th in Lagna and the lord of the 6th in the Sth. 

Results —The subject will be a posthumous child. 

Remarks.—Birth of posthumous children is a 
somewhat rare phenomenon but not an infrequent 
one. The yoga here defined isa round-about one 
involving the Sun, and lords of the 6th, 8th and 
12th, and their disposition in certain mutual posi- 
tions. It occurs to me that in order to produce the 
full effects, the entire yoga, and not a part of it, 
should be present in the horoscope. 


234 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No, 113—Born on 22-3-1929 at 5-10 p.m. (L.M.T ) 
Lat. 20° N. ; Long. 77° 30° E. 


| Venus 


Sun | jupiter 


Mercury 
RASI 


Jupiter 
Sun 


Saturn | Kethu 


Balance of Kethu’s Dasa at birth: years 4-7-19. 


In Chart No. 113, Yoga No. 242 is present in 
toto. The Sun is in the 8th; lord of 8th Jupiter is in 
the 9th; lord of the 12th Moonisin Lagna; and 
finally lord of the 6th, viz., Saturn is in the Sth. 


243. Dhatrutwa Yoga 


Definition —The lord of the 9th should be exal- 
ted, and aspected by a benefic, and the 9th should 
be occupied by a benefic. 

Results——The person will be an embodiment of 
generosity. 

Remarks.—The yoga assumes the strength of the 
9th lord and the 9th house to make one charitable 
in one’s outlook. the 9th is termed Dharma as well 
as Bhagya and Dana or charity being an indispen- 


Dhatrutwa Yoga 235 


sable part of one’s Dharma, one should be fortunate 
enough to possess the instinct of generosity. Here 
again, there are various grades of charity ranging 
from giving away gifts without entertaining any 
profit-motives, to giving huge sums seemingly for 
charitable purposes but ostensibly to serve selfiish 
ends. Karna of the Mahabharatha fame and Emperor 
Bali had been known for their absolutely motiveless 
acts of charity. But such men belong to the age of 
legend. Even today thereare people who take 
immense pleasure in helping others without expec- 
ting anything in return for their acts of sacrifice. 
Such noble instincts should always be attributed to 
the strength of the 9th house. Malefics in the 9th 
house, otherwise strong and capable of conferring 
Rajayoga, deaden the finer instincts of the person. 
He would no doubt make large endowments for 
so-called charitable purposes, etc., but he does all 
this with an ulterior motive, to get some title or to 
get into the good graces of influential people. A man 
engaged in the perfidious task of filling his coffers by 
creating conditions for starving the poor man, and 
later on passing an insignificant part of this ill-gotten 
fortune towards a charitable purpose is worse than 
a thief wedded to rob the rich and help the poor. 
Here, the yoga is applicable to really sincere and 
humanitarian persons whose generous instincts find 
a spontaneous expression for the good of the suffer- 
ing humanity. 

Chart No. 114belongs to a late Maharaja. Lord 
of the 9th Jupiter is exalted in Lagna with another 
benefic Venus and 9this aspected by the lord him- 


236 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


self. The 9th is of course aspected by Mars, but 
Jupiter is exceptionally beneficial and powerful. The 
native was noted for his great humanitarian instincts 
and never lost an opportunity to help the needy and 
the deserving. 

Chart No. 114.—Born on 4-6-1884 ai 10-18 a.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 12° N.; Long. 76° 38 E. 


Saturn 
Kethu Sun aie Mars 
Mercury 7 
Lagna Sun 
Jupit. Venus jj 
Venus Saturn 
Eiaisene a) NAVAMSA |__~— 
Mars 
P.N, 46 
| Moon | Rahu Meon Rahuv 
| 


Jupiter 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 1-11-12 

Dhatrutwa Yoga can also be said to exis:, (a) 
when the Lagna or the lord of Lagna is aspected by 
the 9th lord who in his turn occupies a kendra, and 
(6) when the 9th lord is in the 4th, the 10th lord is 
in a kendra and the 12th lord is aspected by Jupiter. 
Several variations of these yogas can also be attemp- 
ted. 


244, Apakeerti Yoga 


Definition —The 10th house must be occupied 
by the Sun and Saturn who should join malefic amsas 
or be aspected by malefics. 


Raja Yogas 237 


Results.—The person will have a bad reputation. 

Remarks.— Reputation is a bubble and it can 
burst at any moment. Some are fortunate in com- 
manding an unsullied name throughout their lives, 
while others suddenly shoot into lime-light and 
disappear ignominously like a meteor. For one to 
possess a good name, there should be no mutual 
conjunction or aspect between the Sun and Saturn 
especially in the J0th house. According to Yoga 
No. 244, the 10th house should be occupied by the 
Sun and Saturn and aspected by malefics, or the Sun 
and Saturn should occupy malefic navamsas. Con- 
versely it means, the mere presence of these two 
planets in the 10th unaspected by other malefics can- 
not constitute Apakeerti Yoga, if benefic navamsas 
are held. In our humble opinion, Jupiter’s aspects 
on the Sun-Saturn combination in the 10th can no 
doubt act as a powerful antidote, but nevertheless, 
the person wiil have a setback in his reputation at 
least temporarily. 


245 to 263. Raja Yogas 
245 
Definition —Three or more planets should be in 
exaltation or own house occupying kendras. 
Results.—The person becomes a famous king. 
246 
Definition —When a planet is in debilitation but 
with bright rays, or retrograde, and occupies 
favourable positions, Raja Yoga wiil be caused. 


238 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results.—The person will attain a position equal 
to that of a ruler and will command all the insignia 
of royalty. 

247 


Definition Two, there or four planets should 
possess Digbala. 

Results —A person, even though born in an 
ordinary family, will become a ruler. 

Remarks.—The above there Raja Yogas are capable 
of elevating a man, though born in humble surround- 
ings, to the position of a ruler. Hundreds and 
thousands of Raja Yogas are enumerated in classical 
astrological works, but I am confining my attention 
to just a few important ones which could really 
produce results attributed to them. According to 
Yoga No. 245, three or more planets should be 
exalted orin swakshetra and at the same time occupy 
kendras. Evidently the definition resembles a Pancha- 
mahapurusha Yoga. In actual practice, it has been 
found that these three or more planets in swakshetra 
or uchcha need not necessarily be in kendras. Even 
crikonas will do. 

Combination 246 is more general and widely 
applicable. The only condition is the debilitated 
planet must be of bright rays, t.e., free from com- 
bustion ; or retrograde and occupy houses which are 
not dusthanas (6th, 8th or 12th). I am afraid a 
planet like Saturn debilitated in the 10th and vakra, 
unless there are other relieving features, can cause 
quite a good deal of harm and completely shatter 
the career of the person. It is held by the framers 


Raja Yogas 239 


of this yoga, that the Raja Yoga gets fructified by 
the debilitated planet occupying auspicious navamsas 
also. 

According to combination 247, the mere posses- 
sion of Digbala by two to four planets is said to give 
rise to Raja Yoga. Mercury and Jupiter in Lagna, 
Mars and the Sun in the 10th, Saturn in the 7th and the 
Moon and Venus in the 4th respectively get Digbala. 
Here again consideration should be given to the 
general strength or otherwise of the planets causing 
Raja Yoga by the possession of Digbala. A Raja 
Yoga caused by Mesha being Lagna with Sani and 
Kuja in the 7th and 10th respectively cannot be equa- 
ted with a Raja Yoga caused by Thula being Lagna 
and Sani and Kuja being placed in Mesha and Kataka 
respectively. In the first instance, the yoga is par 
excellence because of the exaltation of Saturn in the 
7th and Mars in the 10th in addition to their 
possessing Digbala. Mars gets added strength by 
virtue of this uchcha in the 10th from Lagna, as lord 
of Lagna. In the second instance, Saturn being 
neecha, has no doubt Digbala besides being a yoga- 
karaka. But his power to confer yoga is considerably 
Testricted on account of his debilitation, while Mars 
though possessing Digbala is powerless, as he would 
be debilitated in the 10th. 

In Chart No. 115 three planets, viz., Saturn, 
Mars and the Sun are exalted and occupy kendras 
form Chandra Lagna and hence illustrative of 
combination 245. There are, of course, certain 
breaks which have impeded the smooth flow of fortu- 
nate currents such as mutual aspects between the Sun 


240 Three Hundred Important Combiaa tions 


Chart No. 115.— Born on 14/13-4-1924 at 2-34 am. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N.; Long. 77° 34° E. 


Sua 
Mercury 


Venus Jupit. Sun 


Balance of Mercury’s Dasa at birth: years 14-4-27. 


and Saturn and Mars aspecting Rahu, etc. But, 
nevertheless, fram Raja Yoga point of view, the Sun’s 
Dasa should prove excellent. And it did prove so. 


Chart No. 116.—Bern on 10-10-1871 at 2-0 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 51° 26’ N., Long.2° 35° W. 


{ Rahu Mercury] Kethu ] Moon 
) 
lupit. jvenus 
aces RASI —}|___} NAVAMSA 
| ea Saturn 
PLN, 36 | aan 
Lagna Sun 
Kethu x Rabu Jupiter | 


Balance of Kethu’s Dasa at birth: years 1-9-25. 


Raja Yogas 241 


In Chart No 116 though Venus is debilitated 
in the 10th, he is not only bright but retrograde. The 
native served as Dewan in Kashmir, Mysore and 
Cochin, enjoyed aJl the royal paraphernalia and lived 
uptoa good old age. This chart is no doubt clearly 
illustrative of combination 246, but there are others 
equally powerful Raja Yogas which have contributed 
to the general strength of the horoscope. 


Chart No. 117.—Born on 4-6-1884 at 10-18 a.m, (L.M.T.) 
Lat, 12° N.; Long. 76° 38° E. 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 1-{1-12. 


Chart No. 117 illustrative of combination 247 is 
that of an Indian Maharaja. Jupiter and the Moon 
have obtained Digbala by virtue of situation in 
Lagna and the 4th respectively. This has acted as a 
powerful Raja Yoga. The native was an ideal ruler 
and had earned the respect and affection of his 
subject by his great qualities of head and heart. 


248 to 250 


Definition—The Lagna must be Kumbha with 
Sukra in it and four planets should be exalted with- 
out occupying evil navamsas or shastiamsas— 248. 

The Moon must be in Lagna, Jupiter in the 4th, 
Venus in the 10th and Saturn exalted or in his own 
house—249. 

The lord of the sign, a planet is debilitated in, or 
the planet, who would be exalted there, should be in 
a kendra from the Moon or Lagna—250. 

Results—The subject becomes a ruler or an 
equal to him. 

Remarks.—In the treatment of Raja Yogas, I 
have included what are all called Neechabhanga Raja 
Yogas also. Generally the latter type of Raja Yogas 
are said to denote elevation from ordinary or low 
births. But, in actual practice, it has been found 
that Raja Yogas as well as Neechabhanga Raja 
Yogas function more or less similarly subject to 
such difference as may be due to the inherent nature 
and functions of the planets involved. 

Combination 248 is of rare occurrence and not 
of universal application as it is confined to only one 
Lagna and as it requires the exaltation of four 
planets and their non-occupation of malefic navam- 
sas or shashtiamsas. If the exalted planets are in evil 
navamsas or shashtiamsas, the yoga does not function 
and the native may become a tyrant or malevolent 
dictator. 


Raja Yogas 243 


Yoga No. 249 requires that the Moon, Jupiter 
and Venus should occupy Lagna, the 4th and 10th, 
Saturn being disposed in exalation or own house. 
Here again, the vitality and potentiality of the 
yoga depend upon the Lagna concerned. The most 
important point involved in this yoga is the fortifica- 
tion of the 4th and 10th houses by presence of two 
first-rate benefics. 

Chart No. 118.—Born on 21-7-1895 at 12 noon. Lat, 40° N.; 
Long. 0°. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Jupiter’s Dasa at birth : years 3-3-11. 


Chart No. 118 is an example for Yoga No. 249. 
The Moon, Jupiter and Venus are situated respec- 
tively in Lagna, the 4th and 10th, while Saturn is in 
exaltation. The yoga obtains in toto. 

As regards combination 250, there has been quite 
a lot of discussion about the planet ‘“‘who would be 
exalted in the sign of the debilitated planet” in the 
pages of THE ASTROLOGICAL MAGAZINE. The term 
used in the original is thaduchchanatha and this has 
been interpreted by some scholars as ‘the lord of the 


24 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


exaltation sign of the debilitated planet’. Arguments 
offered by such critics have not been convincing. 
According to savants like Prof. B. Suryanarain Rao, 
thaduchchanatha means the planet who gets exalted 
there, and not the lord of the exaltation sign of the debi- 
litated planet. This is still a controversial matter and 
I do not therefore propose to discuss it in this book 
which is mainly intended for students of astrology. 
Since astrology is a practical science any interpretation 
that we put upon a certain combination must be 
capable of verification when applied to practical 
horoscopes. As most of the astrological terms are 
expressed in very suggestive, symbolic or euphemistic 
language, no amount of scholarship in Sanskrit or 
Grammar or Literature would enable one to appre- 
ciate the subject in its proper perspective. On the 
contrary, the more one tries to grammatically inter- 
pret such terms the more absurd becomes one’s 
conclusion. A literaland matter-of-fact interpretation 
leaves no scope for imagination with the result 
original ideas would be narrowed down to mere 
confusion. Most of these yogas are to be reckoned 
both from Lagna and the Moon. 

Here is an illustration for Neechabhanga Raja 
Yoga. The Sun is neecha, and Saturn, the planet 
who is to get exalted in the Rasi occupied by the Sun 
is in a kendra from Lagna. The horoscope is that of 
a great scientist who has won international laurels. 
Apart from Neechabhanga Raja Yoga, the conjunction 
of Saturn and Rahu in the 10th aspected by Mars is 
higly significant. 


Raja Yogas 245 


Chart No. 119.— Born on 8-11-1888 at 5-47 a.m. (L M.T.) 
Lat. 10° 47' N.; Long. 79° 10° E. 


NAVAMSA 


P.N. 57 


Mars | Jupiter 
Moon 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years 8-2-21. 


251 to 253 


Definition —The Moon must be in a kendra other 
than Lagna and aspected by Jupiter, and otherwise 
powerful—251. 

Planets in debilitated Rasis should occupy exal- 
ted Navamsas—252. 

Jupiter in Lagna and Mercury in a kendra must 
be aspected respectively by the lords of the 9thand 
11th—253. 

Resuits.—The native becomes a ruler or an equal 
to him, in wealth, power and influence. 

Remarks.—Raja Yogas like any other yogas have 
to be adopted to suit modern conditions. Most of 
the Raja Yogas mentioned in classical works must 


26 Three Hundred important Combinations 


have been framed, when monarchial forms of rule 
were the order of the day. But now in this age of 
‘democracy’, when Kingship as an institution has 
been practically wiped out, the presence of Raja 
Yogas need not suggest that one would become a 
tuler. A powerful Raja Yoga may confer a position 
equal to that of a king. There are different grades of 
Raja Yoga capable of conferring different degrees of 
political power. If the Raja Yoga planets are inti- 
mately connected with the Sun and the Moon, politi- 
cal power may result. If the Raja Yoga planets are 
connected with Mars, one may become a dictator or 
a Commander-in-Chief. It would require quite a 
good deal of study and investigation before one 
could definitely say in whdt manner a particular Raja 
Yoga is likely to manifest. 

Combination 251 requires the disposition of the 
powerful Moon ina kendra other than the Lagna 
and subject to the aspect of Jupiter. 

Chart No. 120.—Born on 8-8-1912 at 7-23 pm. (L.M.T.) 
Lat, 13° N. ; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Saturn 
Moon 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 6-0-10. 


Raja Yogas 147 


In Chart No. 120 the Moon is in a kendra 
other than Lagna, and is aspected by Jupiter. The 
Moon being exalted may be said to be fairly power- 
ful. A Raja Yoga is therefore clearly present, and it 
is further fortified by the Moon and Jupiter being in 
mutual kendras thus causing Gajakesari Yoga. The 
Raja Yoga has however nothing to do with political 
power, as neither the 10th nor the 10th lord has any 
contact with the political planet, Sun. Mars no doubt 
aspects the 10th as 10th Jord, but the dominating 
planet is Jupiter. Short of political power, the Raja 
Yoga could confer all the other results consistent 
with the strength of the planets causing the yoga. 


Chart No. 121.— Born on 8-11-1903 at 2-38 pm. (L.MT.) 
Lat. 17° 30° N.; Long. 73° 30° E. 


Jupiter Sun 
Saturn | Rabu 


Mars 


Lagna 


Mercury | Rahu 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: year 0-11-7. 


In Chart No. 121, the Moon is in the 4th 
aspected by Jupiter from the 12th. Combination 251 
is present. The Moon is aspected by Mars from the 
10th. Therefore the Raja Yoga should have expressed 
itself inthe shape of the native getting political 


248 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


power. But actually, he is a buisnessman and has 
nothing to do with politics. The reason appears to 
be due to his not getting the Moon and Mars Dasas. 
Jupiter Dasa merely built his business career. We 
may therefore infer that a Raja Yoga could confer 
political power, provided, one of the Yogakarakas is 
connected with Mars or the Sun who in his turn 
should own or occupy the 10th house. Mark also 
another Neechabhanga Raja Yoga caused by the dis- 
position of Venus (lord of the sign the Sun is debili- 
tated in) ina kendra from Lagna. The native is a 
very rich man having inherited lakhs of rupees from 
his father. 

In Chart No. 122, Yoga No. 252 is illustra- 
ted. All the neecha planéts in Rasi are exalted in 
Amsa. 


Chart No. 122.—Born on 5-11-1975 at 11-30a.m. (1.S.T.) 
Lat. 15° N.; Long. 77° E. 


Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: year 0-11-21. 


Raja Yogas 249 


Chart No. 123.—Born on 22-5-1921 at 2-5 p.m. (1.S.T.) 
Lat. 18° $2' N. ; Long. 72° 35° E. 


Jupiter | 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth: years 1-9-28. 


Chart No. 123 fulfils all the requirements of 
combination 253, excepting one, viz., Mercury 
receiving the aspect of the lord of the 11th. Since 
Mercury himself happens to be lord of the 11th, the 
yoga can be assumed to be present. Jupiter is in 
Lagna and Mercury isin the 10th, another kendra 
and Jupiter is aspected by Mars lord of the 9th. 
Mark also the conjunction of lord of Lagna with 
Yogakaraka Mars and the lord of the 11th Mercury 
—all in the 10th from Lagna. 


254 to 258 


Definition.—Saturn in exaltation or Moola- 
thrikona should occupy a kendra or thrikona aspected 
by the lord of the 10th—254. 


250 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


The Moon should join Mars in the 2nd or 3rd 
and Rahu must occupy the Sth—255S. 

The lord of the 10th should occupy an exalted 
or friendly navamsa in the 9th having attained 
Uttamamsa—256. 

Jupiter must be in the Sth from Lagna and ina 
kendra from the Moon and the Lagna being a fixed 
sign the lord should occupy the 10th—257. 

The lord of the navamsa occupied by the Moon 
should be disposed in a quadrant or trine either 
from Lagna or Mercury—258. 

Results.—The native becomes a ruler or an equal 
to him. 

Remarks.—Saturn’s exaltation sign is Thula and 
Moolathrikona is Kumbha. For combination 254 to 
obtain, Saturn must occupy either Thula or Kumbha 
which should happen to bea kendra or thrikona 
from Lagna. In other words, this yoga can operate 
in respect of all signs except Kanya, Dhanus and 
Makara because they cannot be kendra or thrikona 
either from Thula or Kumbha. Therefore Saturn in 
Kumbha or Thula, aspected by the lord of the 10th, 
can give rise to the Raja Yoga defined in combina- 
tion 254, provided the Lagna is not Kanya, Dhanus 
or Meena. 

The theoretical presence of Raja Yogas is of no 
consequence unless the Raja Yogas have inherent 
vitality to produce the results ascribed to them. The 
student must first learn to pick up Raja Yogas and 
then weign their relative strengths and weaknesses. 
Chart No. 124 illustrates the presence of Raja Yoga 
as per combination 254. Saturn is not only in exalta- 


Raja Yogas 251 
tion occupying a thrikona but is aspected by Jupiter 


lord of the 10th from Lagna. The subject was a big 
zamindar. 


Chart No. 124—Born on 15-5-1895 at 9-17 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 22° 25' N.; Long. 87° 21° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Saturn 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 5-9-0. 


A Chandra Mangala Yoga in the 2nd or 3rd with 
Rahu in the Sth is also said to give rise toa Raja 
Yoga (255). Rahu’s situation in the 5th is not good 
for children. When Kuja is in the 2nd and Rahu is 
in the Sth, Kuja aspects Rahu thus increasing the 
affliction onthe Sth house. The Raja Yoga in 
question is perhaps an exception to the general dic- 
tum that Rahu-Mars influences on the Sth would 
adversely affect the house of children. In about a 
dozen horoscopes (containing this combination) 
Ihave examined, the Raja Yoga appears to be nomi- 
nal inasmuch as the subjects concerned belong to 
mediocre status and have not been noted either for 
wealth, or power or intellect. I should feel thankful 


252 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


to readers who could pass on to me charts illustra- 
tive of Raja Yoga mentioned in combination 255. 

Yoga No. 256 seems to require a little explana- 
tion. First, the 10th lord should occupy the 9th; 
second, in the 9th house, the Navamsa occupied 
should be an exalted or friendly one; and third, the 
10th lord should have attained Uttamamsa. If a 
planet is in its own varga three times, it is said to be 
in Uttamamsa. 

Chart No. 125.—Born on 27-3+1902 at 10-15 am. (L.M T.) 
Lat, 31° 43° N.; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Sun 
Mar Kethu | Lagna 


Mercury 
Venus 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter 
Satum 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasaat birth: year 0-9-22. 

Chart No. 125 is an example for combination 256. 
The 10th lord, Saturn, is in the 9th occupying his 
own (instead of exalted or friendly) Navamsa and 
Saturn has attained Uttamamsa as he occupies his 
own vargas thrice. 

Two out of three factors, involved in causing 
Yoga No. 257, are constant, for, the positions of 
Jupiter and Lagnadhipathi are fixed. It is only the 
position of the Moon that is variable. The Lagna 


Rajs Yogas 253 
must be a fixed sign, Jupiter should occupy the Sth 
from Lagna and the Moon must be in a kendra from 
Jupiter. Lagnadhipathi should, of course, be in the 
10th. When the Moon is to be in a kendra from 
Jupiter, the existence of Gajakesari Yoga is clearly 
implied. The Moon could occupy the 2nd, 11th or 
8th from Lagna, the first two positions being good, 
as they would have reference to the houses of wealth 
and gains (provided the Moon is not blemished by 
lordship), while the third position is not recommen- 
ded. As the yoga takes into account the presence of 
Gajakesari plus Jupiter’s aspect on Lagna, its poten- 
tiality could be considerable, provided, Lagnadhipathi 
and Jupiter are both strongly disposed. The yoga is 
capable of a number of variations, as it can arise 
with regard to four signs and as the Moon’s position 
is variable. 

Yoga No. 257 is present in Chart No. 126. 
Jupiter is in the Sth from Lagna and the Moon is in 
a kendra from Jupiter. The Lagna is a fixed sign and 
the lord of Lagna occupies the 10th. 

Combination 258 requires the fulfilment of the 
following conditions. The Moon occupies some 
Navamsa. The lord of this Navamsa should be in a 
kendra or thrikona either from Lagna or from 
Mercury. This does not appear to be a powerful Raja 
Yoga. It is quite a common combination. 

In Chart No. 127, the Moon is in Mesha Nav- 
amsa. The lord of the Navamsa, viz., Mars is ina 
kendra from Mercury and in a thrikona from Lagna. 
Thus the yoga is present in toto. Yet the subject is 
neither a king nor a big personality. There are quite 


254 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Chart No. 126.—Born on 6-6-19/3 at 11-59 a.m. (G.M.T.) 
Lat. 54° N.; Long. 1° W. 


Saturn 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at birth : years 6-2-24. 
Chart No. 127—Born o71 /0-§-/916 at Gh. 39-15 after sunrise. 


Lat, 13° N.; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Mercury 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Kethu’s Dasa at birth: years 5-4-0. 


a number of afflictions present which must have 
countered the Raja Yoga. 


259 


Definition The Lagna being Taurus with the 
Moon in it, Saturn, the Sun and Jupiter must occupy 
the 10th, 4th and 7th houses respectively. 

Results.—The person becomes a commander or 
an equal to a ruler. 

Remarks.—The yoga is applicable only to those 
born in Vrishabha Lagna. The yoga comprehends 
the strength of four important planets, viz., the 
Moon exalted in Lagna, Saturn, the Yogakaraka for 
Vrishabha in the 10th in its own house, the Sun lord 
of the 4th in his own house, and Jupiter, the greatest 
benefic in the 7th in the house of a friend, constitut- 
ing a powerful Gajakesari Yoga. Mars being excluded 
and yet the yoga being capable of making the person 
a commander appears somewhat inconsistent. This 
yoga is taken from the famous work Sambhuhora 
Prakasha., It would be plausible to suppose that under 
a combination such as this, a democratic tyrant may 
be born. 


260 and 261 


Definition.—The lord of the Navamsa occupied 
by a debilitated planet should join a quadrant or 
trine from Lagna which should be a movable sign 
and the lord of the Lagna should also be in a 
movable sign—260. 

The lord of Lagna should join a debilitated planet 
and Rahu and Saturn should occupy the 10th, 
aspected by the lord of the 9th—261. 


256 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results —The native becomes a ruler or an equal 
to him. 

Remarks.—When the Lagna is a movable sign 
and the Lagnadhipathi occupies a movable sign, the 
lord of the Navamsa held by a debilitated planet is 
said to become capable of conferring Raja Yoga, 
provided the said planet is in a kendra or thrikona 
from Lagna. This is a round-about combination and 
I have not tested its practical applicability. 


Chart No. 128.—Born on 21-9-1866 at 3-33 p.m. Lat, SI° 
24° N.; Long. 0° 15° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 5-1-3. 

The native of Chart No. 128 was a prince of 
literature and commanded considerable respect and 
riches. The Lagna is Makara, a movable sign and the 
lord Saturn occupies Thula, another movable sign. 
Jupiter is debilitated and the lord of the Navamsa 
Jupiter is in, viz., Saturn conferred all the blessings 
of a Raja Yoga. The above horoscope is clearly 
illustrative of combination 260. 


Raja Yogas 257 


As regards combination 261, I am unable to 
appreciate the rationale of a Raja Yoga being caused 
by the situation of two of the worst malefics, like Rahu 
and Saturn in the 10th and the conjunction of Lagna- 
dhipathi with a debilitated planet. Probably, the 
double evil of Rahu-Saturn association aspected by 
the 9th lord and Lagnadhipathi-neecha planet combi- 
nation gets mutually cancelled. I should be glad 
to have the views of scholars who have tested this 
Raja Yoga. Ina couple of horoscopes containing 
this yoga, which I have seen, it looks as though the 
debilitated planet gets all the Raja Yoga power while 
Lagnadhipathi and the two planets in the 10th be- 
come enfeebled or weakened to such an extent they 
can confer no Raja Yoga results. 


Chart No. 129.—Born an 17-/1-1944 at 3-17 a.m. (Z S.T.) 
Lat. 33° N.; Long, 49° 15’ E. 


Balance of Saturn’s Dasa at birth years 1-10-15. 
Chart No. 129 has Rahu and Saturn in the 10th 
and Lagnadhipathi Mercury is with a debilitated 


planet. Yoga No. 261 is therefore completely present. 
17 


262 and 263 


Definition —Out of the lords of the 11th, the 9th 
and the 2nd houses, at least one planet should be in 
a kendra from the Moon and Jupiter must be lord of 
the 2nd, 5th or the 11th house—262. 

Jupiter, Mercury, Venus or the Moon should 
join the 9th, free from combustion and be aspected 
by or associated with friendly planets—263. 

Results—The native becomes a great man ora 
respected ruler. 

Remarks.—With the above two combinations, 
the chapter on Raja Yoga is completed. For causing 
Yoga No. 262, either the 11th lord or the 9th lord 
or the 2nd lord should be disposed in a kendra from 
the Moon and Jupiter should own the 2nd, 5th or 
or 11th and this would be possible, provided the 
Lagna is Kumbha, Simha, Vrishabha or Vrischika. 
By implication, it means that the yoga cannot apply 
to the remaining eight Lagnas. 

In Chart No. 130 the 11th lord Mercury is in a 
kendra from the Moon and Jupiter owns the 2nd as 
well as the 5th, thus illustrating Yoga No. 262. 

Combination 263 is very simple to understand 
and needs no explanation. Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, 
or the Moon must be in the 9th house aspected or 
associated with friendly planets and free from 
combustion. Here again, due care is necessary to 
assess the exact nature and strength of the yoga. 


Arishta Yogas 259 


Chart No. 130.—Born on 30-7-1863 at 2-9 p.m. Lat. 42° 5° 
N.; Long. 83° 5’ W. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 2-1-6. 


Arishta Yogas 


Misfortunes or miseries are more important than 
fortunes or sources of happiness. The best general is 
he who first makes and takes suitable precautions to 
beat a sound retreat and then begins to fight the 
battle. If success attends his attempts, he will have no 
difficulty and everything goes off well. But if mis- 
fortune overtakes him, he must see and make 
provision for the safety of his army and give no 
room for its utter annihilation. Similarly when bright 
fortunes overtake a man, he will have no difficulty 
in adjusting his surroundings and enjoying their 
results but when sudden misfortunes overtake him, 
he will be not only unnerved but will be at a loss 
to know how he should meet them. Misfortunes or 


78D Three Hundred Important Combinations 


arishtas are of a wonderful variety and though there 
is a general resemblance, the feelings of pain and 
miseries do not appear to be the same among all 
the individuals. Misfortunes affect persons on three 
planes two of which, viz., bodily and mental, are 
demonstrable and the third, viz., pertaining to the 
soul, is universally recognised though not demon- 
strable to the naked eye. In a horoscope, ordinarily 
most of the arishtas have reference to the 6th house, 
but the Arishta Yogas detailed in this book affect 
almost all houses. In interpreting Arishta Yogas 
due consideration should be given to combinations 
which may act as antidotes or minimising factors. 


264. Galakarna Yoga 


Definition —The 3rd house must be occupied by 
Mandi and Rahu or by Mars in the shashtiamsa of 
Preta Puriha. 

Results.—The native suffers from ear troubles. 

Remarks.—According to some astrological trea- 
tises, the yoga is also caused by the mere presence of 
malefics in the 3rd house. But in actual practice, this 
theory is not borne out. Rahu’s disposition in the 
3rd house in a cruel shashtiamsa is a sure indication 
of some sort of trouble in the ear. 

For details about shashtiamsas, see my book 
A MANUAL OF Hindu ASTROLOGY. 


265. Vrana Yoga 


Definition.—The 6th lord, being a malefic, should 
occupy the Lagna, 8th or 10th. 


Vrana Yoga 261 


Results.—The person suffers from dreadful disease 
of cancer. 

Remarks.—A literal application of the yoga is 
not at all recommended. Firstly, the 6th lord must be 
a malefic. This would be possible provided the ascen- 
dant is Gemini, Leo, Virgo, Scorpio or Pisces. It 
occurs to me that Scorpio must be excepted as the 
6th lord happens to be Lagnadhipathi himself. And 
secondly, he should occupy either the Lagna, the 8th or 
the 10th. The presence of 6th lord, whether a benefic 
or malefic, in Lagna is always held to deplete the 
vitality of the horoscope. Probably, the malefic 6th 
lord, in addition to weakening the general structure 
of the horoscope, would also cause physical 
troubles. 

The seat of disease should be located by taking 
into consideration the planet involved. If the planet 
in question be the Sun, then the person suffers from 
cancer of the head; if the planet is the Moon—cancer 
of the face; Mars—-throat or neck (or rectum); 
Mercury—lower stomach; Jupiter nose; Venus—eyes; 
Saturn—legs; and Rahu and Kethu—abdomen. If 
the malefic planet in question is aspected by benefics 
there will not be much trouble. The allocation of the 
seat of disease to different planets appears to be 
incomplete inasmuch as several organs have been 
omitted. ; 

Cancer is a general name applied to all malig- 
nant tumours. Cancer is liable to damage important 
or vital organs or tissues in the human body. Modern 
medicine has yet to find a remedy for this diabolical 
disease. It must be said to the discredit of modern 


262 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


civilisation that the more highly organised and arti- 
ficial the state of society in a country, the more fre- 
quent is the occurrence of cancer. 

In Chart No. 131 the 6th lord Mars is a malefic 
and he is in the 10th, the sign of another malefic and 
aspected powerfully by Saturn another equally 
strong malefic. Against these malefic influences, 
Jupiter’s association with Mars is not of much 
significance. The subject suffered from the cancer of 
rectum. She suffered for a long time from dreadful 
pains at the lower end of the spinal column and across 
the bowels. Mars has governance over rectum. From 


Chart No. 131.—Born on 14-7-1897 at4 p.m. (L.M.T) 
Lat 41° 15° N ; Long. 0°. 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Sun’s Dasa at birth: years 1-1-4. 


standard books on the subject, J have been able to 
gather the following details regarding the rulership 
of the different organs by the different planets : 
Sun—Spleen, heart. 
Moon—Oesophagus, alimentary canal. 


Sisnavyadhi Yoga 263 


Mars—Genitals, left cerebral hemisphere, red- 
colouring matter in blood, rectum. 

Mercury—Nerves, right cerebral hemisphere, 
cerebrospinal system, bronchial tubes, ears, tongue. 

Jupiter—Liver, suprarenals. 

Venus—Throat, kidneys, uterus, ovaries. 

Saturn—Teeth, skin, vagus nerve. 

Rahu—Pituitary body. 

Kethu—Pineal glands. 

This allocation is based upon our own findings. 
Therefore they could only be provisional and not 
final. There is, however, considerable scope for re- 
search in medical astrology and it is hoped that 
students of astrology will be able to collect important 
material by a study of a large number of horoscopes. 


266. Sisnavyadhi Yoga 


Definition —Mercury should join Lagna in asso- 
ciation with the lords of the 6th and 8th. 

Results.—The native will suffer from incurable 
sexual diseases. 

Remarks.—Sisna means sexual organ. Combina- 
tion 266 merely says that under the planetary dis- 
positions defined by it, one would suffer from sex 
complaints. Sexual diseases are of various kinds. 
Hydrocele, epididymitis, orchitis, phimonis, genital 
fistula, gonorrhoea, tumours of the ovary, dysmen- 
norrhea are al] diseases pertaining to the sex, while 
there are any number of social diseases largely due 


264 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


to sexual perversions and excesses. Classical texts on 
astrology furnish no clue for predicting such social 
diseases, probably due to the fact of such diseases 
not obtaining in ancient times. 

In Chart No. 132 Mercury has joined Venus, 
lord of the 6th, who also happens to be Lagnadhi- 
pathi, and there is Bhava conjunction between Mer- 
cury and the lord of the 8th Jupiter. Consequently 
Sisna Yoga is present. The subject suffered from 
sexual troubles during Jupiter’s Dasa. 

Combination 266 can be extended by suitable 
variation, to include different types of sexual 
diseases. 

Saturn’s presence in theabove combination and 
the absence of benefic aspetts would involve surgical 
treatment of the sex-organ. 


Chart No. 132.—Born on 13-5-1937 at 6-36 a.m. (1.S.T.) 
Lat. 20° 53' N. ; Long. 75° 39 E. 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 4-10-2. 


267. Kalatrashanda Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of the 7th should join the 
6th with Venus. 

Results.—The person’s wife will be frigid. 

Remarks.—Impotency is the inability to perform 
the act of sexual intercourse due to undeveloped sex- 
organs or excessive indulgence over a long period of 
time or due to certain psychological inhibitions. In 
the case of a woman, impotence means inability to 
give satisfaction to her partner. When the wife is 
unfit for fulfilling her sexual obligations, the husband 
should consider himself really unfortunate. In order 
to make the wife frigid, the 7th lord must be in the 
6th with Venus. Since | have not tested this yoga in 
regard to a large number of horoscopes, IJ am unable 
to endorse its practical applicability. Readers will do 
well to test the combination and convince themselves 
how far it holds good in actual practice. 


268 and 269. Kushtaroga Yogas 


Definition —The lord of Lagna must join the 4th 
or 12th in conjunction with Mars and Mercury—268. 

Jupiter should occupy the 6th in association with 
Saturn and the Moon—269. 

Results —The person suffers from leprosy. 

Remarks.—The dreadful disease of leprosy, 
though said to be caused by insanitary and unclean 


266 Three Hundred Important Combjnations 


habits of living, is generally traced to moral turpi- 
tude in one’s previous life. In spite of all medical 
pretensions, leprosy could never really be checked. 
But during certain periods, it seems to subside slightly. 
According to combination 268, Lagnadhipathi, Mars 
and Mercury should be found in the 4th or 12th. 
Here againthe nature of the ascendant and the 
general strength of the horoscope should be carefully 
considered. Combination 269 requires the presence 
of Jupiter, Saturn and the Moon inthe 6th. In 
applying these yogas, due consideration should be 
given to the disposition of the 6th Bhava. When 
Saturn, Mercury and Lagnadhipathi are together and 
Rahu and the Sun are in the 6th, the person suffers 
from a severe form of leprosy. Lomasa goes to the 
extent of suggesting that the mere presence of Jupiter 
and the Moon in the 6th house gives rise to leprosy 
between the ages of 19 and 22. The truth of this 
has to be tested by applying the principles to a large 
number of horoscopes. My Research Department 
has been collecting a large number of horoscopes of 
persons suffering from various types of diseases and 
Thope to place before my esteemed readers, the 
results of my investigations in due course. I must 
caution amateur astrologers against coming to prema- 
ture conclusions regarding the nature of diseases one 
is likely to suffer from unless they have gained suffi- 
cient practical experience. 


270. Kshayaroga Yoga 


Definition —Rahu in the 6th, Mandi in a kendra 
from Lagna, and the lord of Lagna in the 8th gives 
rise to this yoga. 

Results.—The person suffers from tuberculosis. 

Remarks.—Combination 270 is very simple to 
understand and it calls for no explanation. However, 
I propose to make a few observations on the relation 
of astrology to disease in general and consumption 
in particular. 

Consumption is a disease of very ancient origin 
perhaps almost co-eval with man’s existence. The 
Hindus seemed to have known a lot about this 
disease and even now it is held to be one of the visi- 
tations that are to comeupon man for the sins 
committed by him in previous births. This opinion 
may be held by some to be a mooted question, not- 
withstanding what was believed but that this together 
with other diseases was the result of violated law, 
there could be little doubt. In the recent times deaths 
by consumption are on the increase in spite of the 
measures adopted by the medical fraternity to check 
the infection in its initial stages. There must be 
something fundamentally wrong with medical theo- 
ries as regards how one would succumb to this 
dreadful disease. Medical men seem to be quite 
ignorant, in spite of the high sounding medical terms 
they use, of the true cause of this disease. The treat- 
ment applied and the measures adopted are curative 


268 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


rather than preventive. Modern medicine has mise- 
rably failed to tackle this dreadful disease success- 
fully and therefore it wil! do well, in the interests of 
humanity, toseek for the planetary causes of con- 
sumption. There are many combinations given in 
astrological books but such combinations are often 
made at random and in obscure places and are not 
indexed or codified. No systematic book has so far 
been published on medical astrology and the various 
combinations for diseases lie scattered in the differ- 
ent books. In order to get these combinations into 
classified form we have conceived the idea of dealing 
with medical astrology in an elaborate manner. This 
book when published will enable one to have bird’s 
eye-view of the entire rangd of astrological science in 
its application to disease diagnosis. It will give the 
planetary influences which cause the various diseases, 
afflictions, events and injuries in life. 

According to Karma theory ‘all disease is the 
result of sin or broken law’. The law was not 
necessarily broken by the individual suffering, but 
may be by some progenitor dating far back, possibly 
some generations before the birth of the sufferer. In 
this way, we have tuberculosis, transmitted heredita- 
rily—may not as disease—but as a tendency to the 
disease like a weak contracted lung or a general 
constitutional weakness that could develop into 
tuberculosis. This tendency is so very well indicated 
in the horoscope that an adept in astrology can tell 
whether one is likely to suffer from consumption and 
if so the probable period. 

We have now to digress a bit and state the medi- 


Kshayaroga Yoga 269 


cal view on the matter. According to medical theories, 

the disease is transmitted by the tubercular bacilli. 

Popularly understood, consumption has been regarded 
as a disease of the lungs. The medical profession is 

responsible for that popular belief overlooking 

possibly the fact that consumption may be a disease 

of any organ. 

The tripod of life is famed by the Sun (ego), the 
Moon (mind) and the Lagna(body) and too much afflic- 
tion to any or all these three factors will result in some 
kind of mental or physical disease or disturbance. 

The doctrine of infection by bacilli tuberculosis 
is accepted as the true cause of consumption by all the 
‘up-to-date’ thinkers. Whether this theory has any 
scientific basis, we shall discuss subsequently. 

Suffice it to say that the germ theory of disease 
has many pitfalls and cannot stand the test of human 
experience, scientific investigation and common-sense 
reasoning. If the theory is correct, then ail the persons 
living near consumptive patients should get the 
disease. In reality, the contrary has been the case. 
Astrologically, if no combination for consumption is 
present, then the body of the individual will be 
immune to the disease even though he may have to 
live amidst a number of consumptive patients. 

Saturn is associated with consumption as its ruler. 
Tendency to suffer from it is shown in charts in 
which Saturn and Mars are in the 6th house with 
powerful aspects by the Sun and Rahu. Lagna being 
hemmed in between Rahu or Kethu and another 
malefic indicates death by consumption. The presence 
of Rahu or Kethu in the 6th is also indicative of 


270 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


tubercular tendencies. If the Moon is severely afflicted, 

then the root cause of consumption would be mental. If 
Venus is highly afflicted with Rahu and Mars, then 

the native may contact consumption after marriage. 

In such cases, selection of the bride or bridegroom 

must be carefully made. if the 6th or the 8th lord is 

with Rahu or Kethu, then also the native is likely to 

suffer from consumption. 

An examination ofa large number of horoscopes 
of persons who have died of consumption reveals 
that all the malefics have their share of evil to contri- 
bute, including of course afflicted Mercury. 
Consumption of the bowels is caused by Saturn’s or 
Rahu’s affliction in Kanya, perticularly when it hap- 
pens to be Lagna. Inflammatory tubercular trouble 
in the bowels will be caused if Mars is in acommon 
Navamsa, especially Kanya. Mars in Cancer and 
aspecting Sun in Libra—the Sun further receiving 
the aspect or conjunction of Saturn indicates acute 
phthisis. If the Sun and Saturn are in mutual kendras 
afflicting the Lagna, death by phthisis is denoted. If 
Gemini is Lagna or one of the kendras and the Sun 
occupies the sign being afflicted, pulmonary tuber- 
culosis will be caused. Consumption of the lungs will 
also occur if the Sun is afflicted in a common sign. 
The Moon in debilitation, associated with the Sun 
and aspected by Mars or Saturn gives rise to pulmo- 
nary consumption. Various forms of consumption 
are caused by different malefic combinations and it is 
not possible to catalogue all of them here. The above 
combinations are due to our own studies and obser- 


Kshayaroga Yoga 271 


vations and we shall herewith inculcate some 
combinations from ancient texts. 

(1) Rahu in the 8th, Mandi in a kendra and lord of 
Lagna in the 8th cause consumption in the 28th year. 
(2) Mercury in the 6th with Mars aspected by Venus 
and the Moon. (3) Mars and Saturn in the 6th aspected 
by the Sun and Rahu. (4) The Moon hemmed in bet- 
ween Saturn and Mars andthe Sun in Capricorn. 
(5) The Moon in conjunction with Saturn and aspec- 
ted by Mars. (6) Waxing Moon in a watery sign in 
conjunction with or aspected by malefics. 

We shall now consider two typical horoscopes : 

The native of Chart No. 133 had a very strong 
constitution being an athletic instructor. The Moon 
powerfully aspected by Saturn without any beneficial 
associate to relieve, is suggestive that consumption 
was due to mental worry. Lagna is hemmed in 
between Rahu and Saturn and Lagnadhipathi is 

Chart No. 133.—8orn on 28-6-1897 at 6-50 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 13° N, ; Long. 77° 35° E. 


NAVAMSA 


Jupiter 


Lagna Saturn 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 4-2-12. 


22 Three Huadred Important Combina.ions 


considerably afflicted. The disease made its appea- 
rance in Rahu’s sub-period in Jupiter’s Dasa and 
the native died in Saturn’s Dasa in his own Bhukti. 
Mark how Saturn is amaraka and how Jupiter 
caused the disease. 

In Chart No. 134, the Moon inthe Sthis aspec- 
ted by Mars. From the Moon, the 6th is a watery sign 
occupied by Mars. The 8th lord from the Moon, 
Mercury, is inthe 11th with Rahu and the Sun. The 
disease made its appearance at the end of Saturn Dasa 
and the person died in Mercury’s sub-period in the 
Dasa of Mercury. 


Chart No. 134.—Born on 18-12-1898 at about 2-20 a.m. 
(L M.T.) Lat. 13° N. ; Long 77° 35' E. 


Saturn | Jupiter 
Lagna 


Balance of Rahu’s Dasa at birth : year 0-0-8. 


In order to successfully combat this destructive 
disease, it is essential that a careful study of the 
horoscopes of all individuals is made by expert 
astrologers. This is possible only when the state 
encourages astrology and gives it at least the status 


Kshayaroga Yoga 273 


that is enjoyed by medicine. Collect the horoscopes 
of different individuals and subject them to a 
thorough astrological analysis. When any tendencies 
are astrologically present, suitable remedies, astro- 
logical as well as medical, should be resorted to. The 
medical remedies would be stimulating the nutritive 
or metabolic processes to build and restore the 
wasted structures of the body and development of the 
chest by expansion of the lungs in order that deep, 
full and free breathing may be practical. Saturn, as 
we have seen, is the prime causer of consumption. 
Blue rays in sunlight seem to possess Saturnine 
energy in a considerable measure. By passing sun- 
light through blue glass, the heat rays are rejected, 
and blue ligh€ which is not sufficiently hot can be 
obtained. The patient must be subjected to the influ- 
ence of these blue rays and he will thereby be highly 
benefited. The influence may be to supply the diffici- 
ency of Saturn’s rays or it may be the direct action 
of light on bacilli, or upon the blood which passes 
underneath the large area bathed in the actinic light. 
Immediate effects will be seen if the experiment is 
properly done. 

Astrology tells in advance whether a particular 
horoscope has any consumptive tendencies and if so 
the period of their manifestation and the remedies 
to be adopted for the prevention of the disease. 

Medicine is ‘empirical practice’ and therefore not 
a science. To classify, it is mecessary to observe, 
compare, reflect and record. This the ancient astro- 
logers have done as best as they could from the days 

18 


24 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


of Parasara down to the present time with ‘some- 
thing’ of agreement on the part of the leading lights, 
as embodied in the treatises of experienced authors. 
Nevertheless, it is proverbial that astrologers like doc- 
tors rarely agree and they are honest in their dis- 
agreement. The horoscope therefore is the revealer 
of exact science and when the medical profession 
begins to consult its aid, then true progress in the 
diagnosis and classification of disease could be made. 


271. Bandhana Yoga 


Definition.—If the lord of the Lagna and the 6th 
joina kendra or thrikona with Saturn, Rahu or 
Kethu, the above yoga is given ris€ to. 

Results.—The native will be incarcerated. 

Remarks.—The cause of the imprisonment is not 
made clear in this yoga. Imprisonment may be due 
to political or criminal offences. The lords of Lagna 
and the 6thshould occupy a kendra or thrikona in 
association with Saturn or Rahu or Kethu. If the 
lord of Lagna happens to be Saturn, by implication 
the evil is either lessened or completely neutralised. 
Benefic aspects tessen the evil. 


272. Karascheda Yoga 


Definition.—Saturn and Jupiter should be in the 
Sth and the 3rd. 


Strachcheda Yoga 275 


Results.—The native’s hands will be cut off. 

Remarks.—The mere presence of Saturn in the 9th 
and that of Jupiter in the 3rd cannot make one lose 
one’s limbs by way of punishment. It looks far more 
reasonable to assume that theresult ascribed to the 
yoga can happen only when Saturn and Jupiter are 
highly afflicted and occupy cruel shashtiamsas. I have 
not so far come across horoscopes of persons who had 
their hands cut off. In this age of advancement and 
civilisation, deprivation of limbs as a means of 
punishment by the state is inconceivable. This combi- 
nation, extracted from ancient works, is given for 
what it is worth. It is for intelligent readers to test 
its practical applicability. 

Karascheda Yoga is also said to arise (a) by the 
disposition of Saturn and Jupiter in the 8th and 12th, 
(b) by the presence of the Moon in the 7th or 8th in 
association with Mars, and (c) by the conjunction of 
Rahu, Saturn and Mercury in the 10th. 


273. Sirachcheda Yoga 


Definition.—The lord of the 6th must be in con- 
junction with Venus while the Sun or Saturn should 
join Rahu in a cruel shashtiamsa. 

Results—The person’s death will be due to his 
head being cut off. 

Remarks.—Combinations denoting cutting off of the 
head or cutting offof the limbs should be applied con- 
sistent with the nature of the punishment now in force 


276 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


in different countries for different offences. Combina- 
tion 273 indicates death by hanging. The nature of the 
offence for which one would be condemned to death 
should be ascertained by a careful study of the 8th 
house and the nature of the ownership held by the 
planets causing the yoga. Two conditions must be 
fulfilled for the operation of the yoga. First, Venus 
iaust be with the 6th lord and second, either the Sun 
or Saturn should be with Rahu in cruel shashtiamsa. 
This means, Sun-Rahu or Saturn-Rahu should bein 
the same shashtiamsa. By implication it means that 
if they are in conjunction but not in the same 
shashtiamsa, the yoga ceases to function. Some 
scholars are of the opinion that such rigid interpreta- 
tionis not justified. They contend that the conjoining 
planet, viz., Saturn or the Sun, should be in a cruel 
shashtiamsa and not Saturn or the Sun and Rahu. 
The *original simply means ‘‘the Sun or Saturn being 
in conjunction with Rahu should occupy a cruel 
shashtiamsa’”’. 

Chart No. 135.—Born on 30-4-1894 at 11-5 pum. (0.M.T.) 
Lat, 52° 31’ N., Long. 6° 37' E. 


Sun Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Jupiter’s Dasa at birth: years 13-11-23. 


* Ravow Sanou va phaninathayukte lerooradi shashtyamsamanviteva. 


Durmarana Yoga 277 


In Chart No. 135 the lord of the 6th being Venus, 
the first condition of the yoga is fulfiilled. Saturn 
has joined Kethu in a cruel shashtiamsa (Rakshasa). 
The man was hanged by the international tribunal 
for alleged war crimes, 


274. Durmarana Yoga 


Definition —The Moon being aspected by lord 
of Lagna should occupy the 6th, 8th or 12th in 
association with Saturn, Mandi or Rahu. 

Results.—The person will meet with unnatural 
death. 

Remarks.—The Lagnadhipathi and the Moon are 
two out of the three most important factors of a 
horoscope. When they are subjected to such serious 
afflictions as suggested in the yoga, they are bound to 
give rise to quite unfavourable results. Unnatural 
deaths may happen through quite a number of ways 
and for causing each kind of death there must be a 
distinct combination. 

Death by suicide, death by poisoning, death by 
weapons, death by being killed by beasts or venomous 
reptiles, death by drowning, or death by accidents are 
all unnatural. The following combinations may also 
be noted : 

(a) The conjunction of the Sun, Saturn and Rahu 
in the 7th—death by poisonous reptiles. 

(6) Mars in Capricorn or Aquarius and Mercury 
in a house of Jupiter—will be killéd by a tiger. 


278 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


(c) Mars in the 9th and Saturn, Rahu and the 
Sun in association—death by weapons. 

(d) 4th house being occupied by a debilitated or 
vanquished planet and the 6th falling in watery sign 
—death by drowning. 


275. Yuddhe Marana Yoga 


Definition.—Mars, being lord of the 6th or 8th, 
should conjoin the 3rd lord and Rahu, Saturn or 
Mandi in cruel amsas. 

Results.—The person will be killed in battle. 

Remarks.—Death in a battle fighting for one’s 
own country is always glorified by sages as the gateway 
to Heaven. The yoga is applicable only to Mesha, 
Mithuna, Kanya and Vrischika Lagnas as Mars can- 
not own the 6th or 8th house for other Lagnas. In 
actual practice, persons born in almost all Lagnas 
have been killed in battle so that it looks far more 
reasonable not to restrict the definition of the yoga 
to the ownership of the 6th or 8th by Mars alone. If 
the 6th or 8th lord in conjunction with the 3rd lord, 
and Saturn, Rahu or Mandi occupies cruel amsas, 
combination 275 may be said to exist. When the 6th 
or 8th lord happens to be Saturn, then also the 
yoga could be caused by his association with the 3rd 
lord and Rahu, Mandi or Mars. 

The same yoga is also said to be caused if the lord 
of the drekkana occupied by Saturn is in a Rasi or 
Navamsa of Mars or is aspected by Mars. 


sanghataka Marana Yogzs 279 


In Chart No. 136 the lord of the drekkana 
occupied by Saturn, viz., Mercury is in a Navamsa of 
Mars. 

Chart No. 136.—Born on 29-7-1883 at 2-5 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 45° 26' N.; Long. 17° E. 


Moon 
Venus 
Saturn 
Jupiter 


Lagna Rahu 


Balance of the Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 3-7-11. 


In Chart No. 136 though death did not happen 
actually in the course of battle yet the end was 
undoubtedly due to the part played by him in the 
war. Mars as lord of the 6th and Ist has joined the 
3rd lord who also happens to be Saturn. Mark 
the Mars-Saturn conjunction in the 7th. The subject 
met with death under tragic conditions. 


276 and 277. Sanghataka Marana Yogas 


Definition.—If there are many evil planets in the 
8th occupying martian Rasi or Navamsa and 
joining evil sub-divisions the above yoga is given 
rise to—276. 


230 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


The Sun, Rahu and Saturn being aspected by the 
8th lord should join evil amsas—277. 

Results——The person will die with many others. 

Remarks.—Sanghataka Maranas mean collective 
deaths such as in earthquakes, explosions in mines 
and factories, sinking of ships, aeroplane crashes, 
heat and cold waves, railway accidents and the like. 
If hundreds and thousands of people are to meet with 
the same kind of death at the same instant, then it is 
reasonable to assume the presence of some common 
combinations in all their horoscopes. Whether same 
or similar combinations are present in regard to all 
those who die at the same instant and by the same 
cause, nobody has tested. Here is a fruitful field for 
research and investigation. In all these misfortunes, 
malefics, particularly Mars, the 8th house and evil 
sub-divisions are involved. 


278. Peenasaroga Yoga 


Definition —The Moon, Saturn and a malefic 
should be in the 6th, 8th and 12th respectively and 
Lagnadhipathi should join malefic Navamsa. 

Results.—The person suffers from inflammation 
of Schneiderian Membrane. 

Remarks.—Peenasaroga is a disease of the nose. 
The nasal canal rots and becomes full of foetid 
matter and sometimes discharges of blood mixed 
with pus from the nose. Heaviness of the head, dis- 
gust for food, watery discharges from the nose, 


Peenasaroga Yoga 281 


weakness of the voice and repeated discharges of 
mucous secretion are symptoms that appear first. 

Mercury is the planet associated with the nose 
and therefore any afflictions to him may find expres- 
sion in the shape of the person suffering from nasal 
complaints. In the majority of the horoscopes studied 
by me, the Moon in the 6th and Lagnadhipathi in a 
malefic Navamsa has caused Peenasaroga. 


Chart No. 137.—Born on 15-10-1916 at 12-26 pm. (1.S.T.) 
Lat, 13° N. ; Long. 77° 35° E. 


Jupiter Moon | 
NAVAMSA 


| Sun 
1 
Balance of the Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 3-0-9. 
The above horoscope is clearly illustrative of 
Peenasaroga Yoga. The Moon is in the 6th, Saturn is 
in the 8th and Mars another malefic is in the 12th. 
Of course, Jupiter Lagnadhipathi, has not joined a 
malefic Navamsa. 


279. Pittaroga Yoga 


Definition.—The 6th house must be occupied by 
the Sun in conjunction with a malefic and further 
aspected by another malefic. 


282 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Resulis.—The subject suffers from _ bilious 
complaints. 

Remarks.—According to Ayurveda, the entire 
psychological activities of the body are controlled 
and brought about by three important forces or 
basic factors called ¢thrideshas. They are Vatha 
(wind), Pitta (bile) and Sleshma (phlegm). Pitta is 
said to be responsible for metabolic activities. The 
thridoshas when excited or disturbed are said to 
cause diseases. Each dosha has got its own attributes. 
For instance, the attributes of pitta are heat, 
keenness, lightness and slight oiliness. When there fs 
excitement of pitta, the effects are burning, warmth, 
suppuration, gangrenous ulcerations, secretions and 
redness of complexion. When there is Pitttavriddhi 
(increase of bile), there will be disposition to 
jaundice, sleeplessness and increase of hunger. 
Pittakshayam (decrease of bile) gives rise to colic 
troubles. IJ would refer the reader to standard works 
on Ayurveda for greater details. The Sun’s position 
in the 6th by itself is good. When the Sun is in the 
house of diseases, joined and aspected by malefics, 
the native’s health will not be good and he will 
always suffer from one complaint or the other due 
to excitement of pitta or bile. 


280. Vikalangapatni Yoga 


Definition—Venus and Sun should occupy the 
7th, 9th or 5th house. 


Putrakalatrabeena Yoga 283 


Results —The person’s wife will have deformed 
limbs. 

Remarks—The mere presence of the Sun and 
Venus in the 5th, 7th or 9th cannot cause the yoga 
in question. There must be further afflictions for 
these two planets. 


281. Putrakalatraheena Yoga 


Definition When the waning Moon is in the 
5th and malefics occupy the 12th, 7th and Lagna, 
the above yoga is formed. 

Results—The person will be deprived of his 
family and children. 

Remarks.—In applying most of these yogas, it 
is experience and commonsense that should guide 
the reader. So far as this yoga is concerned, three 
variations for each Lagna or 36 variations in all are 
possible. The results in respect of all these varia- 
tions cannot be same and they are bound to differ 
with regard to each variety of the yoga. The position 
of the Moon is constant or fixed. The malefics can 
change their positions. Thus the Moon is in the 5th 
and (a) the Sun in the 12th, Mars in the 7th and 
Saturn in Lagna; (6) Mars in the 12th, Saturn in the 
7th and the Sun in Lagna; and (c) Saturn in the 12th, 
Mars in Lagna and the Sun in the 7th are the three 
varieties of the same yoga for a Lagna. 


282. Bharyasahavyabhichara Yoga 


Definition.—Venus, Saturn and Mars must join 
the Moon in the 7th house. 


284 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results—The husband and wife will both be 
guilty of adultery. 

Remarks.—Mark the number and nature of the 
planets involved in the 7th house combination. The 
Moon-Saturn association denotes mental depression, 
due to want of satisfaction of the sexual urge denoted 
by Mars-Venus association. It will be seen that 
the chronic adulterers and adulteresses, the deli- 
berate hunters for opportunities are either over-sexed 
(again Mars-Venus conjunction) or their cultural 
inhibitions (Mars-Saturn association) are under- 
developed. 

Owing to the limited scope of this book, I have 
referred to one or two yogas in respect of each 
human event but I may make a casual reference to 
some of the horoscopes in my possession, which do 
not actually have combination 282 but which 
nevertheless are fully illustrative of sexual perversion 
and adultery of both the husband and the wife. 
Satyriasis (sexual insatiability in men) and nympho- 
mania (sexual insatiability in women) are supposed by 
sexologists to be the two main causes for adultery. 
Nymphomania is frequently associated with mental 
disorder with the result higher inhibitions are 
eliminated. 

In Chart No. 138, the 7th lord Mercury is in 
the 10th in conjunction with Venus and aspected by 
Saturn. The 7th house is aspected by Kethu, Saturn 
and Mars. Mark also the affliction of both Venus and 
the Moon by Saturn and Mars respectively. Though 
the native belonged to a respectable family, he was a 
glutton for the sexual experience. He could never 


Vamsacheda Yoga 28S 


Chart No. 138.—Born on 10-10-1871 at 2 p.m. (L.M.T.) 
Lat. 51° 26' N.; Long.2° 35° W. 


Mercury! Kethu 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of Kethu’s Dasa at birth: years 1-9-25. 


adapt himself to the requirements of the marriage 
with the result he went after every woman, respectable 
or disrespectable whom he could trap through the 
usual ‘social contacts’. As he himself confessed to me 
just before his death, his wife was equally oversexed 
and experienced an irresistible compulsion to surren- 
der to any man if an opportunity arose. The couple 
had agreed between themselves in regard to one 
thing, viz., that each should have his or her own way 
so far as their sex life was concerned. Debauchery, 
drunkenness and mental instability were common to 
both. Unfortunately, the wife’s horoscope is not 
available. 


283. Vamsacheda Yoga 


Definition —The 10th, 7th and 4th must be 
occupied by the Moon, Venus and malefics respec- 
tively. 


286 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Results.—The person will be the extinguisher of 
his family. 

Remarks.—Family extinction is considered to be 
one of the greatest misfortunes that could befalla 
man. The yogaas defined above is somewhat rare. 
In actual experience, we find the Moon and Venus in 
the 7th and malefics in the 4th and 10th would lead 
to family extinction. 


284. Guhyaroga Yoga 


Definition —The Moon should join malefics in 
the Navamsa of Cancer or Scorpio. 

Results.—The person suffers from diseases in 
the private parts. 

Remarks.—Diseases in the private parts include 
piles, hernia and complicated forms of sexual 
troubles. According to this, the Moon may occupy 
any sign. But he must be in the Navamsa of Cancer 
or Scorpio. I am afraid that so general a definition of 
the yoga is not warranted by experience. The Moon 
in Cancer Rasi and Scorpio Navamsa, or vice versa, 
is also capable of giving rise to diseases in private 
parts. 

The Moon in Chart No. 139 has joined a malefic 
in the Navamsa of Cancer. The person was suffering 
from bleeding piles since 1914. He also has dyspepsia 
and palpitation of the heart. It is amazing how most 
of these combinations can be so clearly illustrated in 
actual horoscopes. 


Angaheena Yoga 237 


Chart No. 139.—Born on 26-8-1892 at 2-30 a.m. (L M.T.) 
Lat. 12° 52’ N.; Long. 74° 5S€ E 


Rahu Lagna 


Jupiter tical Kethu | Jupiter 


NAVAMSA 


Balance of the Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 1-5-21. 


285. Angaheena Yoga 


Definition —When the Moon isin the 10th, Mars 
in the 7th and Saturn in the 2nd from the Sun, the 
above yoga is formed. 

Results.—The person suffers from loss of limbs. 

Remarks.—The original word used for defining 
the results of the yoga is Vikalaha or loss of limbs. 
This may mean deprivation of the use of. certain 
parts of the body by attacks of rheumatism or para- 
lysis or by injuries inflicted by weapons or wild 
beasts. My book on Medical Astrology gives quite a 
number of combinations for paralysis, rheumatism 
and other forms of diseases with suitable illustra- 
tions. 


286. Swetakushta Yoga 


Definition.—If Mars and Saturn are in the 2nd 
and 12th, the Moon in Lagna and the Sun in the 
7th, the above yoga is given rise to. 

Results.—The person suffers from white leprosy. 

Remarks.—Ayurveda comprehends varieties of 
Kushta Rogas falling under two main categories, 
viz., Mahakushta and Kshudra kushta. The horoscope 
does not say that the subject must get the disease. It 
merely shows the predisposition. Kshudra kushta or 
simple leprosy is said to be curable. When Jupiter 
aspects either Mars or Saturn in the above yoga, the 
disease could be checked’by medicines and other 
astrological remedies. 

Yoga No. 286 in Chart No. 140 is clearly present. 
Lagna has Saturn in the 12th and Marsin the 2nd 
and the Moon occupies Lagna and the Sun the 7th. 

Chart No. 140.—Born on 3-4-1920 at 5-13 p.m. (1.S.T.) 
Lat. 17° N. ; Long. 78° 15° E. 


RASI _——— NAVAMSA 
a E 
Rahu agna Jupit.)| Kethu 
Mars |Moon 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth : year 0-7-11. 


287. Pisacha Grastha Yoga 


Definition —When Rahu is in Lagna in conjunc- 
tion with the Moon and the malefics join trines, the 
above yoga is given rise to. 

Results —The person suffers from the attacks of 
‘spirits’. 

Remarks.—This yoga is similar to 288 given on 
page 290 except that the Moon here takes the place 
of the Sun in the next yoga. The Moon’s conjunc- 
tion with Rahu and Saturn is always undesirable as 
it makes the person mentally unsound. Whilst it may 
be conceded that some super-normal phenomena 
such as “‘possession by devils”, etc., may be proved 
to be due to abnormal conditions of the brain, yet 
there will be found to remain well-attested facts 
which will compel science to admit the existence of 
pisachas, devils, spirits, hobgoblins and the like. 
Pisachas are supposed to be discarnate intelligent 
beings, some of whom occasionally get into communi- 
cation with us through ‘“‘mediums’’ or persons who 
are weak-minded. Various experiences recorded by 
trustworthy men do afford strong prima facie evi- 
dence of survival after death and pisachas are said 
to be souls of less evolved persons whose spiritual 
development is deficient and who die an early death 
without tasting any earthly pleasures. The subject of 
pisachas is a vast one and [ would refer my readers 
to standard books on the subject particularly to 


19 


290 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Dr. Ghose’s Adventures with Evil Spirits. When the 
Moon is with Rahu and Saturn, or Saturn aspects 
Moon-Rahu combination, especially in Lagna, the 
person doubtless suffers from evil spirits or devils. 


288 and 289. Andha Yogas 


Definition.—The Sun must rise in Lagna in con- 
junction with Rahu and malefics should be disposed 
in thrikonas—288. 

Mars, the Moon, Saturn and the Sun should res- 
pectively occupy the 2nd, 6th, 12th and 8th—289. 

Results —The person will be born stone-blind. 

Remarks.—The Sun andthe Moon are said to 
rule the right eye and the left eye respectively. The 
12th house governs the left eye and the 2nd, the 
right eye. According to combination 288, the Sun 
is subject to severe affliction by association with 
Rahu and the 12th house by being aspected by Mars. 
Out of the four malefics, as the Lagna is to be occu- 
pied by the Sun and Rahu, the two others left, viz., 
Saturn and Mars will have to be in thrikonas, i.e., 
the 5th and 9th. Irrespective of whether Mars is in 
the 5th or 9th, he would be aspecting the 12th. If 
Saturn is in the 5th, he could aspect the 2nd; if he 
isin the 9th, neitherthe 12thnorthe 2nd would 
receive his aspect. The Moon is completely excluded. 

Combination 289 can be considered more malig- 
nant because all the factors ruling the eyes, viz., the 
Sun and the Moon and the 2nd and 12th houses 


Andha Yogas 21 


become subject to the aspects orassociations of Mars 
and Saturn. When Mars is in the 2nd and the Sun in 
the 8th, both the 2nd and the Sun are afflicted. 
When the Moon is in the 6thand Saturn is in the 
12th, boththe 12th and the Moon get involved. 
Since the 2nd house becomes more afflicted than the 
12th, by virtue of martian position and Saturn’s 
aspect, one born in this yoga would either be stone- 
blind or completely lose his right eye. 

In actual practice, we find that when the 12th 
and 2nd houses, and the Sun and the Moon are in 
conjunction with or aspected by malefic planets or 
when they are in evil shadvargas, the subject will 
have either defective vision, loss of an eye, or com- 
plete loss of sight depending upon the intensity of 
the affliction. 

Mark in Chart No. 141 the following evil combi- 
nations. The 2nd is aspected by Saturn. Both the 
Moon and the 12th have the conjunction of Saturn 
and the aspect of Mars. The native, a lady, is com- 
pletely blind. Besides blindness, there is trouble with 
the elimination of the urine and bleeding piles. 


290. Vatharoga Yoga 


Definition —When Jupiter is in Lagna and Saturn 
in the 7th house, the above yoga is caused. 

Results.—The person. suffers from windy 
complaints. 

Remarks.—Jupiter in Lagna and Saturn in the 
7th get Digbala. Depending upon their strengths, 


292 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


these planets may cause Raja Yoga also. But that 
does not deprive them of their capacity to cause 
diseases appropriate to their nature. When Jupiter is 
in Lagna, the person will have a tendency towards 
corpulence and a stout body is a breeding place 
for windy complaints. We have already observed 
elsewhere that according to Ayurveda, disease is due 
to the vitiation or excitement of one or more of the 
three doshas or basic factors. The attributes ascribed 
to Vayu are dryness, lightness and clearness. The 
indications of its abnormal functions are cheerless- 
ness, pain in the body, swelling, contractions, 
numbness or paralysis of limbs. When there is Vatha- 
vriddhi (increase in wind) one is likely to suffer from 
constipation, flatulence, sleeplessness, loss of enthu- 
siasm and fainting. When there is Vathakshayam 
(decrease in wind), one will suffer from emaciation, 
fainting and increase of hunger. Apart from the Raja 
Yoga aspect, Jupiter in Lagna aspected by Saturn in 
the 7th is not good for sound health. This is a 
powerful combination for rheumatism. 

Chart No. 141—Born on 13-6-1873 at 11-55 pm. (LM.T.) 


Lat. 42° N.; Long. 75° E. 
Lagn: : 
Moon ar | Jupiter 


i_—_| NAVAMSA 


Venus | Rahu 


Lagna Kethu 


Moon 
Saturn 


Kethu Mars 


Balance of the Sun’s Dasa at birth: year 0-0-3. 


Mathibramana Yogas 293 


In Chart No. 142 mark the disposition of Jupiter 
in Lagna and Saturn in the 7th. The martian aspect 
on Rahu is also not desirable. The native suffered 
from rheumatism and fallen arches. 


Chart No. 142.—8orn on 14-8-1912 at 1-7 pm. ([.8.T) 
Lat. 13° N.; Long. 5h. 10m. 20s. E. 


Saturn 


Saturo | 
| 


NAVAMSA 


Lagna 
Jupiter 


Balance of Venus’ Dasa at birth: years 8-6-27. 


291 to 294. Matibhramana Yogas 


Definition —Jupiter and Mars should occupy the 
Lagna and the 7th respectively—291. 

Saturn must be in Lagna and Mars should join 
the 9th, 5th or 7th—292. 

Saturn must occupy the 12th withthe waning 
Moon—293. 

The Moon and Mercury should be ina kendra, 
aspected by or conjoined with any other planet—294. 

Results.—The person becomes insane. 


4 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Remarks.—The rationale of the various combina- 
tions for various diseases is not easily discernible. 
But when these combinations are present in the 
horoscopes of a large number of persons suffering 
from lunacy and insanity, we are justified in conclu- 
ding that these various yogas are not merely the pro- 
duct of imagination, but that they must have been 
the result of keen observation and study on the part 
of the sages. 

Four yogas for insanity are given above. They 
result by a certain juxtaposition of Saturn, Jupiter, 
Mars, the Moon and Mercury. In my humble 
opinion, combination 291 does not seem as harmful 
as it is said tobe. I am convinced that unless the 
Moon and Mercury are involved in heavy afflictions, 
insanity or lunacy cannot be present. To assume 
that insanity always results by nervous debility 
which in its turn is due to mental disturbances 
is to ignore the fundamentals of commonsense, 
reasoning and ordinary logic. The mind is no doubt 
the root cause but the root cause itself is conditioned 
by certain acts done in the previous life so that a 
human being, however normal he may appear to be 
for all practical purposes, would Jose the mental 
equilibrium when the moment for the fructification 
of the karmaic results expressed as sidereal influen- 
ces arrives. 

Astrologically, it is certainly possible to say in 
advance whether one is likely to suffer from insanity 
so that if indications are present, an environment 
from very early life may be so created as to lessen 


Matibbramana Yogas ms 


the chances of the individual’s violent reactions to 
nervous and mental shocks. 

According to Ayurveda, various causes bring 
about insanity, chief among them being inhormoni- 
ously combined food, certain poisons, insults to 
Gods, the pious, elders and preceptors ; sudden fear 
or joy or grief, and acts which put a severe strain 
upon the nervous system, excite the doshas (three 
humours) and vitiate the seat of the understanding, 
the heart and all those ducts by which the mind 
communicates with the organs of sense. This leads 
to the disturbance of the mind causing insanity. 
Insanity is therefore a mental disease. The mind be- 
comes restless and vacant, the vision becomes stale, 
and actions become purposeless and speech incohe- 
rent. Insanity born ofthe ‘faults’ is curable by 
administering medicine. Gluttony in the absence of 
proper physical exercise is said to provoke kapha 
(phlegm); the excited phlegm mixes with pitta (bile) 
and produces what is called kapha-born insanity. 
Each planet is said to rule a certain humour and 
when the said planet is highly afflicted and adversely 
situated with reference to the Moon or Mercury 
some form of insanity cannot be ruled out. One 
should be very careful in analysing horoscopes for 
this purpose. It is always advisable that such 
diagnosis be left to specialists in medical astrology 
as otherwise grave repercussions will follow. The 
following are the assignments of planetary rulerships 
for the three humours—the Sun—bile (pitta) ; the 
Moon—wind and phlegm (vayu and kapha); Mars— 
bile; Mercury—all the three; Jupiter—phlegm; 


296 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Venus—too much wind and phlegm; Saturn—wind. 
Mercury in the 6th afflicted by conjunction with 
Saturn is indicative of some form of insanity appear- 
ing especially in Sani Dasa, Budha Bhukthi or vice 
versa. The cause of madness in this case is physical 
and therefore the disease is curable. Sanskrit works 
describe that insanity in a large number of cases is 
caused by certain spirits of departed individuals, the 
asuras, yakshas and even pisachas and a sort of 
insanity is generated Whilst we may not accept this 
statement as ‘sensible’, let us not condemn it as 
superstitious or dismiss it lightly. It is full of signi- 
ficance and comprehends several of the psychological 
and psychoanalytical causes. Some insane people 
behave very violently while others are harmless. 
Medicine can give no explanations for these 
‘vagaries’. On the other hand, astrology can offer 
a reasonable explanation. Insanity caused by 
‘obsession’ or ‘possession’ is hardly curable. It can 
be checked if treated within thirteen years; other- 
wise it becomes incurable. 

From an astrological standpoint, this disease is 
to be viewed primarily from the afflictions to Lagna, 
the 6th house, the Moon and Mercury. Whether 
mental derangement is the resultant of ‘obsession’ or 
due to physiological causes can be easily ascertained 
from the horoscope. Rahu determines the issue. If 
the powerful affliction of Mercury or Lagna or the 
Moon has the contact of Rahu, one may be certain 
that no medical treatment would be of any avail. 
One has to seek remedies other than medical. 


Matibhramana Yogas 297 


In a disease of this magnitude, the configuration 
and aspects in the horoscope must necessarily be 
very severe. In studying this disease, the Moon and 
Mercury should be primarily considered. Mental 
weakness is more apt to result where there is no 
aspect at birth between the Moon and Mercury and 
also when neither is disposed favourably from the 
Lagna; and at the same time greatly afflicted. If 
Saturn be the afflictor in a day birth, epilepsy is 
more apt to occur but in a night chart, if Rahu be 
the afflictor, insanity may follow. Virgo and Pisces 
are sensitive signs and afflictions occurring in them 
are always undesirable. If, on the other hand, Mars 
be the afflictor, insanity may prevail during the day 
and epilepsy during the night. In insanity, the 
Lagna is not necessarily afflicted but in epilepsy, the 
ascendant is usually badly aspected or conjoined. 
Before proceeding-further, I shall take a typical case 
for illustration. I am purposely omitting the birth 
details as readers can easily follow my arguments 
without these particulars : 


Lagna 


Jupiter 
Kethu 
NAVAMSA 


296 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Although we may be unable to predict the dates 
of crisis with the present state of development in 
medica] astrology, we can very easily say that the 
native is bound to suffer from insanity. Lagna is 
Pisces, a sensitive sign and the lord is in the 12th 
with Kethu. Let alone this combination as it made 
him highly stoical, religious and philosophical. The 
most important combinations relevant to the present 
discussion are :— 

(1) The 6th is occupied by Rahu and aspected 
by Kethu. 

(2) The 6th lord is further afflicted by conjunc- 
tion with Mars. 

(3) The planet of nerves Mercury is in a 
commor sign in conjunction with two malefics, viz., 
Mars and the Sun. 

(4) inthe Navamsa again Mercury occupies the 
6th with Rahu and the 6th lord is in conjunction 
with Mars. 

The benevolent aspect of Jupiter on the 6th is 
sterilised as he is with Kethu. The Moon being 
aspected by Saturn, the planet of gloom and 
melancholy, made the mind morbid. On account of 
all these adverse and perverse influences, the poor 
man was erratic, reckless and gloomy. Mark 
particularly the association of Mercury and Rahu in 
Amsa, Rahuw’s situation in the 6th in Rasi and the 
planet of nerves and brain in Sagittarius with Mars 
and the Sun (lord of the 6th) and the latter two 
planets in exact conjunction. A more typical case 
could not have been thought of. Mercury’s Dasa 
commenced and the man was taken violently insane 


Matibhramana Yogas 299 


and had to be confined in an asylum. At this time 
Saturn was transiting the exact degree occupied by 
Mercury. This cannot be a coincidence. Our grand- 
father (late Prof. B. Suryanarain Rao) had warned 
15 years before that when Mercury Dasa commenced, 
the native would become mad and might even be 
put into an asylum. The person was too proud to 
listen to his astrological advice. In 1938, the son of 
this subject consulted us about the longevity. Saturn 
causing elarata for the third time and a Maraka Dasa 
operating, we predicted that his death would happen 
when Saturn entered Aswini. Unfortunately the pre- 
diction was realised. So long as the person remained 
in the asylum, there was little or no improvement in 
regard to the mental condition. It is no doubt a 
hopeless case. But still Jupiter’s aspect could have 
been made to operate by properly conditioning the 
environment when the first warning was given. In 
dealing with the question of insanity, we must always 
bear in mind that it is a rupture between the physical 
body and the vital body. Before naming the next 
yoga we may just mention a few more combinations, 
most of which are the result of our own obser- 
vations :— 

(1) The conjunction of Mercury and Gulika 
especially in the 6th house. 

(2) The Moon in conjunction with Ketbu and 
Saturn. 

(3) Saturn and Mars inan angle but causing 
Papadhi Yoga from the Moon or from Mercury. 

(4) Saturn and Rahu conjunction especially in 
the first degree of Virgo, Lagna being either Pisces 
or Virgo. 


300 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


(5) Mars powerfully aspecting or in conjunction 
with Mercury in the 6th or 8th house. 

(6) Mutable signs on the angles and greatly 
afflicted. 

The astrologer, professional or amateur, would 
be rendering a distinct disservice to society if he 
attempts to predict insanity on superficial grounds. 
The general strength or weakness of the horoscope 
should not be ignored. Let readers use astrology to 
help and to heal and not to wound. Even if there 
are any indicationsto the effect, they must not be 
revealed direct to the person concerned. The nearest 
relatives and friends who have the good of the 
person should be told, so that they might take the 
necessary preventive measures. A weak-willed person 
may become despondent and will be surrounded by 
imaginary troubles. The Meieria Medica is easy to 
read, but it is only a specialist who can diagnose a 
disease properly and prescribe the remedy. 


295. Khalwata Yoga 


Definition —The ascendant must be a malefic 
sign or Sagittarius or Taurus aspected by malefic 
planets. 

Results.—The person will! be bald-headed. 

Remarks.—Astrological writers consider baldness 
as an arishta or misfortune. According to the defini- 
tion given above, birth in a malefic sign., viz., Aries, 
Leo, Scorpio, Capricorn or Aquarius, or in Taurus 


Rajabhrashta Yoga wi 


or Sagittarius gives rise to this yoga provided the 
Lagna is aspected by malefic planets. The type and 
time of onset of ordinary baldness cannot be easily 
found oui with the aid of astrological knowledge as 
at present known. Examples of horoscopes for bald- 
ness could be had in plenty and therefore I do not 
propose to add an illustration for this yoga. 


296. Nishturabhashi Yoga 


Definition. —The Moon must be in conjunction 
with Saturn. 

Resulis.—The person will be harsh in speech. 

Remarks.—If Jupiter aspects the Moon-Saturn 
conjunction, the yoga gets neutralized. If the aspec- 
ting planet is Mars, then the person will not only be 
harsh and blunt in his speech but sarcastic also. 


297. Rajabhrashta Yoga 


Definition —The lords of Aroodha Lagna and 
Aroodha Dwadasa should be in conjunction. 

Results.—The subject will suffer a fall from high 
position. 

Remarks.—Most astrologers pay attention to 
Raja Yogas and Dhana Yogas and hardly take into 
account combinations which either act as breaks to 
the functioning of Raja Yogas or completely neutra- 
lise the Raja Yogas with the result horoscope judg- 


302 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


ments invariably go wrong. When Raja Yogas are 
really more powerful than Rajabhanga Yogas, then 
alone the former could function. Aroodha Lagna is 
the sign arrived at by counting as many signs from 
Lagnadhipathi as the Lagnadhipathi is removed from 
Lagna. Similarly, Aroodha Dwadasa Rasi is as many 
signs away fromthe 12th lord as the 12th lord is 
from the 12th house. Supposing Lagna is Aries and 
the lord Mars is in Leo. Then the Sth from Leo, viz., 
Sagittarius would be Aroodha Lagna. Likewise if the 
12th is Pisces; and the 12th lord, viz., Jupiter is in 
Taurus (the 3rd from 12th), then the Dwadasarudha 
would be Cancer, the 3rd from the 12th lord. Ina 
horoscope, where Lagna is Aries and Lagnadhipathi 
isin Leo and the 12th lord Jupiter is in Gemini, 
Lagnarudha would be Sagittarius and Dwadasarudha 
would be Virgo. Conjunction between these two 
lords, viz., Mercury and Jupiter would result in a 
Rajabhrashta Yoga. 


298 and 299. Raja Yoga Bhangas 


Definition The ascendant being Leo, Saturn 
must be in exaltation occupying a debilitated 
Navamsa or aspected by benefics—298. 

The Sun must occupy the 10th degree of Libra 
—299. 

Results —The person though born in a royal 
family will be bereft of fortune and social position. 


Raja Yoga Bhangas 303 


Remarks—Both the above yogas are quite simple 
to understand and they need no explanation. Yoga 
No. 298 requires that Saturn should occupy a debili- 
tated Navamsa in his exaltation sign, and the Lagna 
must be Leo. This means Saturn must occupy the 
first pada of the constellation of Visakha or Libra 
20° to 23° 20°. As for Yoga No. 299, the Sun must 
be in deep debilitation. J am afraid, in the absence 
of other powerful arishtas, the mere debilitation of 
the Sun cannot destroy all the Raja Yogas and ren- 
der the person unfortunate and miserable. 


Chart No, 143.—Born on 14-5-1896 at Gh. 17 after sunrise. 
Lar. 13° N. ; Long, 77° 35° E- 


Balance of Moon’s Dasa at birth: years 2-5-2]. 


In Chart No. 143 the Lagna is Leo, Saturn is 
exalted in Rasi, debilitated in Navamsa and aspected 
by Mars. The Raja Yoga formed in the 10th house 
has been rendered infructuous. 


300. Gohanta Yoga 


Definition.--A malefic devoid of benefic aspect 
in a kendra and Jupiter in the 8th house gives rise to 
this yoga. 

Results.—The person becomes a butcher. 

Remarks.—Butchery was held by the framers of 
these yogas to bea disrespectable and degrading 
avocation. But in the modern world, especially in 
the West, no stigma could attach to the profession 
or butchery. The yoga is’ said to arise by the mere 
presence of Jupiter inthe 8th and a malefic in 
kendra unaspected by benefics. I have not been able 
to test this yoga adequately. Any further observa- 
tions would be unwarranted. 1} would refer the 
readers to Stanza 2 of Chapter XIX of Brikat Jathaka. 
When the Moon in Libra is aspected by Mars or 
Saturn, the native is supposed to become cruel. 
Some commentators suggest, by implication, that the 
person could take to occupations involving cruelty 
to animals. Unless one is hard-hearted and lacks 
the respect and sanctity for life, one cannot think 
of taking to an occupation involving the slaughtering 
of thousands of innocent lives. When the Moon is 
in the Ist quarter of Visakha and powerfully aspec- 
ted by Saturn and the Sun, he would not only be 
lacking humanitarian feelings but would be com- 
pletely impervious to human suffering. 


Summary 


We have been able to cover in the course of this 
book, three hundred yogas. In classical works on 
astrology are mentioned thousands of yogas 
bearing on every aspect of human activity. Yoga in 
astrology may be defined as a special combination 
indicating some definite or distinct feature pertaining 
to a particular signification of the horoscope. Yogas 
may be formed in several ways, but we can recognise 
three broad varieties, viz., yogas formed between 
planets themselves ; yogas formed between planets 
and Rasis; and yogas formed between planets and 
Bhavas. 

The measurement of the strength of a yoga is a 
difficult process. No hard and fast rules have been 
laid down by ancient astrologers. Planets have been 
classified into benefics and malefics consistent with 
their inherent good or bad natures. In the forma- 
tion of the several of the Raja Yogas, even these 
natural malefics have their own part to play. Just 
because a natural malefic causes a Raja Yoga, it 
does not mean that the yoga lacks vitality to give 
the results attributed to it. On the contrary, if the 
malefic happens to be a benefic /ord also, then the 
potentiality of the yoga is considerably augmented. 
Similarly there is no warrant that a Raja Yoga could 
give rise to all the results ascribed to it simply 
because it is caused by a benefic. if the benefic 


2% 


306 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


happens to be a malefic lord, there will be adverse 
tepercussions on the yoga. Readers must therefore 
note the difference between a benefic and a benefic 
lord and a malefic and a malefic lord. Jupiter, for 
instance, is a benefic but for Kumbha Lagna, he is 
a malefic lord. Therefore a benefic can become a 
benefic lord or a malefic lord depending upon the 
kind of ownership he obtains for a given Lagna. 
Likewise a malefic can become a malefic lord or a 
benefic lord depending on the kind of ownership he 
obtains for a given Lagna. The Sun could bea 
benefic lord as owning 1, 4, 7, 10, 5 and 9 which is 
possible in regard to Leo, Taurus, Aquarius, 
Scorpio, Aries and Sagittarius. He is neutral as lord 
of 2, 12 and 8, which is possible for Cancer, Virgo and 
Capricorn. He becomes a malefic lord as owner 
of 3, 6 and 11, which is possible for Gemini, Pisces 
and Libra. Other planets can become benefic and 
malefic lords as already elaborated from pages 3 to 
5 to which the reader may refer. 

As regards the interpretation of yogas, we do 
not have infallible clues in any of the classical works. 
The inherent and residential strengths of planets 
calculated as per methods outlined in my Graha and 
Bhaya Balas will be of great use in assessing the 
potentiality of the Yogarkarakas. If the reader finds 
it difficult to ascertain the shadbalas owing to the 
cumbersomeness of the methods, at least the 
saptavargabaia of the planets should be calculated. 
The residential strength of a planet is one when it is in 
the midpoint of a house and Zero at the bhava sandhi 
or the beginning and termination points of the 


Summary xT 


bhavas. The residential strength of a planet situated 
in the Poorvabhaga (between the first and the mid- 
point) can be obtained by the following formula :— 


Longitude of Bhavamadhya — Longitude of the planet 
Longitude of Bhavamadhya — Longitude of Arambha Sandhi 


For a planet situated in the Uttarabhaga (between 
the mid and last points) the residential strength could 
be obtained thus :— 


Longitude of Bhavasandhi — Longitude of planet 
Longitude of Bhavasandhi — Longitude of Bhavamadhya 


Residential strength reveals how much of the bhava 
effects a planet is capabie of giving as a result of its 
position there. When we know (a) the benefic and 
malefic lords, (b) the inherent, and (c) the residential 
strengths of planets, the interpretation of yogas 
becomes simplified. A Yogakaraka could get strength 
(a) by being a benefic or good lord—1 unit, (d) by 
association with a benefic lord—1 unit, (e) by 
occupying own or exaltation house—1 unit, and 
(d) by receiving the aspect of a benefic lord 4, 3, 3 or 
1 unit depending upon the partial or full nature of 
the aspect. 

All planets aspect the 7th house and the planet 
or planets therein fully. Saturn, in addition to the 
7th house, aspects the 3rd and 10th also fully ; other 
planets aspect the 3rd and 10th with a quarter aspect. 
Jupiter, in addition to the 7th house, aspects the Sth 
and 9th also fully. Other planets aspect the Sth and 
9th with half aspect. Mars, in addition to 7th house, 
aspects the 4th and 8th houses fully. Other planets 


308 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


aspect the 4th and 8th with a three-fourths aspect. 
We can enter the above aspects thus in a tabulated 
form :— 


Planet Full 3 $ } 
Sun 7 4,8 5,9 3, 10 
Moon 7 4,8 5,9 3, 10 
Mars 7,4, 8 5,9 3, 10 
Mercury 7 4,8 5, 9 3, 10 
Jupiter 7, 5,9 4,8 : 3, 10 
Venus 7 4,8 5, 3, 10 
Saturn 7, 3,10 4,8 5,9 


The aspects of Rahu and Kethu need not be con- 
sidered for this purpose. 

A Yogakaraka could lose strength by being (a) 
a malefic or bad lord, (b) by associating with a 
malefic lord, (c) by joining neecha or inimical 
sign, and (d) by receiving the aspect of a malefic 
lord—3, 1, 2 or 1 unit depending upon the partial or 
full nature of the aspect. 

For purpose of illustration let me take the 
horoscope of a person born on 8-8-1912 at 7-23 p.m. 
(L.M.T.) at Lat. 13° N., Long. Sh. 10m. 20s. E. The 
following are the Rasi and Navamsa positions and 
the residential and inherent strengths :— 


Summary 309 


NAVAMSA 


Mercury 
Moon 


Jupiter Mars 


Jupiter 


Balance of Mars’ Dasa at birth: years 5-6-15. 


Inherent Residential 

Strengths Strengths 
Sun 6.2 24 per cent 
Moon 8.9 40 a 
Mars 6.4 31 ee 
Mercury 6.3 80 as 
Jupiter 6.9 99 ” 
Venus 5.0 37 a 
Saturn 6.8 95 as 
Ralw (same as Jupiter) 6.9 24 2 
Kethu (same as Mercury) 6.3 24 = 


The benefic or malefic nature of aspect on a body or 
house is the sum-total of aspects of benefic and 
malefic lords. Take for instance, the Sun who is in the 
house in the Standard Horoscope. The aspects of 
Saturn, a benefic lord (positive) and of Jupiter a 
malefic lord (negative) are full (1 unit each). The 
Moon’s aspect is 1/4th (négative or —). The sum- 
total of the three aspects is — 1/4 and hence the Sun 
(as well as the 6th house) is slightly afflicted by 
aspect. 


310 Three Hundred Important Combinations 
The following is the table of aspects in the 
Standard Horoscope :-— 
*ASPECTING PLANETS 


Aspected 
Planets BL. M.L M.L NL. ML. BL. BL. 
Sun Moon Mars Merc. Jupit. Venus Sat. Total 
+ = = =f _ + + 
Sun ae } 1 1 —} 
Moon i as ub a 2 —} 
Mars ; i 2 4 
Mercury 3 ; + 2 —} 
Jupiter + 1 1 3} Poel 
Venus ee 2 —} 
Satnrn su, hd Ps } 1 4 . —2 


In the illustrated horoscope, let us take the 
planets Jupiter and the Moon, the two planets 
causing Gajakesari. 


The Moon is a malefic lord — | unit 
The Moon is associated with 
Saturn, a benefic lord : +1 = ,, 
The Moon is exalted +12, 
The Moon’s aspect strength . —} ,, 
Total... + } unit 
Jupiter is malefic lord ..  — 1] unit 
Jupiter occupies a friendly sign.... a ar 
Jupiter’s aspect strength is +23 ,, 
Total... + 2} units 


*B.L. = Benefic lord. 
M.L. = Malefic Jord. 
N.L. = Neutral lord. 


Summary 1 


The Moon is slightly benefic and Jupiter is 
benefic. The Moon’s shadbala strength (8.9) being 
higher than that of Jupiter (6.9) the Moon could 
fulfil the higher part of the yoga, but as the Moon’s 
Dasa is not likely to be enjoyed, he can give rise to 
the yoga only as a sub-lord and that too to the 
extent of 40%, this being his residential strength. 
Jupiter, on the other hand, can give 90% of the 
results due by him in reference to the 10th house 
both in the capacity of a major lord and sub-lord. 

There are different types of yogas, viz., Chandra 
Yogas, Surya Yogas, Panchamahapurusha Yogas, 
Nabhasa Yogas, Raja Yogas, Arishta Yogas and 
Parivraja Yogas. According to Varahamihira, the 
distingushing feature of the Nabhasa Yogas is that 
the effects are realised throughout life. But what is 
the channel through whichthe results can be felt, 
excepting the Dasas and the transits. The effects of 
any yoga, Nabhasa or otherwise, can only be realised 
during the periods and sub-periods of, or during 
the times of favourable transits of the planets causing 
the yoga. 

Gajakesari (1) is caused by the disposition of 
Jupiter and the Moon in mutual kendras. The two 
lunar yogas Sunapha (2) and Anapha (3) arise by the 
situation of planets (excepting the Sun) in the 2nd 
and 12th from the Moon. Durdhura (4) and Kema- 
druma (5) result when the Moon has, and has not, 
respectively planets on either side. Kemadruma is an 
evil yoga but it gets cancelled ifa kendra from 
Lagna or the Moon is occupied by a planet. Chandra 
Mangala Yoga (6) results by the conjunction of the 


312 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Moon and Mars. Its occurrence in unfavourable 
houses is not favoured. Adhi Yoga (7), another 
equally powerful yoga, results by the disposition of 
benefics in the 6th, 7th and 8th from the Moon. Even 
if one of the three places is occupied by a_benefic, 
there will be a trace of Adhi Yoga. This contributes 
to character, wealth and longevity. When all the 
kendras have planets, Chatussagara Yoga (8) is 
formed. Benefics in Upachayas, and benefics in Lagna 
give rise to Vasumati(9) and Rajalakshana (10) 
Yogas respectively. The association of Lagnadhi- 
pathi or Lagna with Rahu, Saturn or Kethu or even 
Gulika results in Vanchanabheethi Yoga (11) _indi- 
cating a fear-complex nature. This yoga has a few 
variations also (12). When dusthanas from Jupiter 
are occupied by the Moon, Sakata Yoga is formed, 
while a benefic in the 10th from the Moon produces 
Amala (13). ‘Parvata Yoga (14) comprehends three 
sets of combinations and it cannot be considered as 
a Raja Yoga. Kahala (15) is formed when the lords 
of the 4th and 9th are in mutual kendras and Lagna- 
dhipathi is strong. The three solar yogas Vesi, Vasi 
and Obhayachari (16, 17, 18) are the consequence of 
the disposition of planets (Moon excepted) in the 
2nd, 12th and 2nd and 12th from the Sun. The yogas 
appear to have reference to the ego development of 
an individual. The Panchamahapurusha Yogas, viz., 
Ruchaka, Bhadra, Hamsa, Malavya and Sasa (19 to 
23) are formed when Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus 
or Saturn respectively are in a kendra identical with 
their own or exaltation house. When powerful, they 
produce five distinct sorts of great personages. The 


Summary 313 


Sun-Mercury conjunction goes under the name of 
Budha-Aditya Yoga (24), provided, they are not 
within 10° from each other. The Sun, the Moon and 
Lagna in odd and even signs, in the cases of males 
and females respectively. give rise to Mahabhagya 
Yoga (25). Pushkala Yoga (26) is a fairly auspicious 
combination, while Lakshmi Yoga formed by the 
conjunction of the lords of Lagna and the 9th contri- 
butes to financial stability. The elevated position 
of the lord of the Navamsa held by the lord of the 
10th produces Gauri Yoga (27), while the lords of 
the Navamsas occupied by the 2nd, Sth and 1/th 
lords, in exaltation and with the 9th lord give rise to 
Bharathi Yoga (28). Both are subha yogas condu- 
cing to wealth and learning. Jupiter, the Moon and 
the Sun, in Lagna, 7th and 2nd respectively produce 
Kusuma Yoga (29), an important Raja Yoga. Chapa 
Yoga (30) is formed when lord of Lagna is exalted 
and the 4th and tOth lords have exchanged houses. 
Both these yogas are capable of conferring fame and 
power consistent with the strengths of the planets 
causing the yoga. Lord of the 10th with the 9th lord 
and the lord of the 7th exalted in the 10th produces 
Sreenatha Yoga (31). Malika Yogas (32 to 43) arise 
by the seven planets occupying the seven houses 
contiguously from any particular bhava. There are 
twelve types of this yoga. Sankha Yoga (44) is 
formed by the mutual disposition in kendras of the 
5th and 6th lords. The Lagna must of course be 
strong General happiness is usually assured by Bheri 
Yoga (45) which is formed when Venus, Jupiter and 
lord of Lagna are in mutual kendras and the 9th lord 


314 Three Hundred Importap! Combinations 


is powerfully disposed. If the lord of the Navamsa 
occupied by an exalted planet, be posited in a trikona 
or kendra identical with friendly or exalted sign and 
the Lagna lord strongly disposed, Mridanga Yoga 
(46) is formed which assures royal honour and influ- 
ence. Parijatha (47) is an important combination 
capable of conferring political or spiritual power. It 
is formed by the lord of the sign in which the lord 
of the house occupied by the ascendant lord ina 
quadrant, trine, or own or exaltation sign. Yogas 48 
to 70 are all very important and some of them such 
as Gaja are of rare occurrence. Kalanidhi Yoga is a 
Raja Yoga and is capable of giving very auspicious 
results. Then we have Amsavatara, Harihara Brahma, 
Kusuma, Matsya, Kurma, Devendra, Makuta, 
Chandika, Jaya, Vidyut, Gandharva, Siva, Vishnu, 
Brahma, Indra, Ravi, Garuda, Go, Gola, Thrilo- 
chana and Kulavardhana, each of which is important 
in its own way. Nabhasa Yogas (7! to 102) consist 
of four groups, viz., Akriti-20, Sankhya-7, Asraya-3 
and Dala-2. The first four out of the 20 Akriti Yogas, 
viz., Yupa, Ishu, Sakthi, and Danda (71 to 74) are 
produced when all the planets occupy four signs 
contiguously from Lagna and other kendras. The 
next four, viz., Nav, Kuta, Chatra and Chapa (75 to 
78) arise by virtue of the disposition of the seven 
planets in seven contiguous houses from Lagna and 
the other kendras respectively. When the seven 
planets occupy the seven houses from a Panapara or 
Apoklima, Ardha Chandra (79) is produced, while 
for the formation of Chakra, the seven planets 
should occupy odd bhavas. Gada, Sakata, Vihaga 


Summary 315 


(81 to 83) arise when the planets occupy two adja- 
cent kendras, Ist and 7th houses, and 4th and 10th 
houses respectively. Benefics in Lagna and the 7th 
and malefics in 4 and 10 give rise to Vajra while the 
reverse holds good in regard to Yava. Sringhataka 
is the name given to a yoga formed when all the 
trines are occupied. If planets are confined to other 
triangles than Lagna, Hala Yoga results. Planets in 
all the kendras result in Kamala; in all the Apokli- 
mas, or Panaparas give rise to Vapee. The last of the 
Akriti, viz., Samudra Yoga is formed when all the 
even bhavas are occupied. The seven Sankhya Yogas, 
viz., Vallaki, Dama, Pasa, Kendra, Sula, Yuga and 
Gola are formed by the seven planets occupying 
7, 6,5, 4, 3,2 and 1 houses. The three Asraya 
Yogas, viz., Rajju, Musala and Nala arise when the 
planets are exclusively in movable, fixed or common 
signs respectively. And the Dala Yogas, viz., Srik 
and Sarpa arise by the kendras being occupied exclu- 
sively by benefics and malefics respectively. Some- 
times Asraya Yogas merge with Akriti Yogas, 
Sankhya Yogas with Akriti Yogas and so on. When 
there is a merging or identification of two yogas 
belonging to two different groups of the Nabhasa 
Yogas, one of the two will cease to function. Rajju, 
Musala and Nala are more or less the same as Yava, 
Abja, Vajra, Andaja, Gola, Gada and Sakata (among 
Akriti Yogas) and Sula and Kendra (among the 
Sankhya Yogas). When Sankhya Yogas coincide 
with Akriti Yogas, the former become defunct. When 
Asraya coincides with Akriti, the latter alone func- 
tions. When Nala and Sankhya coincide, the former 


316 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


alone functions. When Asraya and Sankhya coincide, 
the latter ceases to function and if Asraya coincides 
with Dala, the former becomes defunct. One should 
carefully apply the Nabhasa Yogas and should 
clearly note down which of the yogas lose théir iden- 
tity and which will prevail. The Nabhasa Yogas 
appear to be useful in the judgment of occupation. 
They will have important bear.ngs on certain aspects 
of one’s life depending upon the stress that is laid 
on particular bhavas by the dispositions of planets 
in or around them. 

When the 10th and 11th lords occupy dusthanas, 
they cause Dur (103) and Daridra (104) Yogas res- 
pectively making the person selfish, deceitful, mean 
and poverty sticken. Lords-of the 6th, 8th and 12th 
occupying the 6th, 8th and 12th will produce Harsha, 
Sarala and Vimala (105 to 107) respectively. 

Combinations 108 to [f7 pertain tothe Lagna 
Bhava. By a certain disposition of the Lagnadhipathi, 
these yogas are formed, some producing health and 
happiness and others denoting a weak constitution, 
miserable existence and so on. Combinations for 
wealth (118 to 128) take into consideration not only 
the favourable disposition of the 2nd lord but also 
the existence of harmonious relationship between the 
lords of the 2nd, 5th, 11th, and 9th. A planet occu- 
pying the 5th identical with his own sign is indeed a 
powerful Dhana Yoga. Amassing of money, earning 
by one’s efforts, access to wealth during certain 
specified periods, and through certain definite sources 
such as through father, mother, brothers, enemies 
and soon, and earning money with and without 


Suminary 317 


effort, have also their own special yogas and these 
are covered by combinations 129 to 143. Daridra 
Yogas (144 to 153) are of a variety and they denote 
dire poverty, wretchedness and miseries. Since the 
2nd house has also reference to one’s speech, Yogas 
154 to 162 deal with such things as eloquence, 
sense of humour, want of character, capacity to 
influence people by one’s oratorial powers, high 
learning and scholarship. 

Combinations pertaining to the 2nd bhava (163 
to 176) cover a variety of events such as dumbness, 
Joss of sight, attractive and ugly appearance, gene- 
rous instincts, eating condemned food, stammering, 
danger from serpents and death by poisoning. In all 
these cases. the 2nd lord’s affliction in some form or 
other is considered. One will be happy on account 
of brothers who will themselves become prosperous, 
provided the third house, the third lord, or Mars is 
auspiciously disposed (177). Affliction to these factors 
result in the death of brothers (178). Then are given 
combinations for only one sister (179), 12 and 7 
brothers and sisters respectively (180 and 181), one’s 
courage (182), strategy in warfare (183), conduct be- 
fore and after the commencement of war (184 and 
185), and interest in religious discourses (186). 
Yogas pertaining to fourth bhava refer to very inte- 
resting topics. Combinations under which possession 
of good houses, innumerable mansions (187 and 188), 
acquisition of property without effort (189 and 190), 
destruction of houses (191 and 192), respect by rela- 
tives and friends (193 and 194) are given with suitable 
examples. One will be deserted by his relatives (195) 


318 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


if the 4th lord is afflicted occupying evil shashti- 
amsas. The mother lives upto a good age (196 and 
197) or dies early in life (198 and 199) depending 
upon the strength or weakness of the Moon. If 
Matrugami (200) and Sahodaragami Yogas (201) are 
present, the person will be guilty of despicable 
behaviour towards his mother and sister respectively. 
Some people are hypocritic and some hate secrecy. 
This is revealed by combinations 202 to 206. One 
would be cruel or ill-disposed towards one’s own 
mother. Yogas 207 and 208 help us to decide this. 
For the acquisition of material comforts and con- 
veniences, Yogas 209 and 210 must be present. The 
5th house has reference to children and intelligence. 
25 Yogas (211 to 235) are devoted to this important 
bhava. Anapathya, Sarpasapa, Pitrusapa Sutakshaya. 
Matrusapa Sutakshaya, Bhratrusapa Sutakshaya, 
Pretasapa give causes for the loss of children. Bahu- 
putra Yogas give combinations for judging the num- 
ber of issues while the next two yogas give a clue to 
find out whether one, in the absence of the birth of 
an issue, would resort to adoption. Aputra Yogas, 
Ekaputra Yoga, Kalanirdesat Putra Yogas denote 
birth of no issues, birth of one issue and birth of 
issues at a particular period respectively. With the 
aid of Yogas 229 and 230, itis possible to say at 
what age a person would lose issues. 

One’s intelligence quotient is revealed by Yogas 
231, 232, 233 and 234. Happiness from children is 
denoted by Putrasukha Yoga. Then we have yogas 
bearing on the 7th house. Jara Yoga (236) makes 
one go after women other than one’s own wife. 


Summary 319 


When the man lacks the power of procreation, his 
wife getting an issue from another man goes under 
the name of Jarajaputra Yoga (237). Bahu Stree 
Yoga (238) gives the number of paramours one is 
likely to have. Happiness from wife and sexual 
perversions can be known from combinations 239 
and 240. A man becomes fortunate by the presence 
of Bhagya Yoga (241). Father’s death before birth 
of a person, generous instincts, bad reputation have 
reference to the next three yogas (242 to 244). 

Raja Yogas are many and have several grada- 
tions. Combinations 245 to 263 deal with certain 
special Raja Yogas which make one a ruler or at 
least an equal to him. Three or more planets in 
exaltation or own houses (245) give rise to a ruler. 
Even a planet in debilitation can give rise to Raja 
Yoga (246) under certain conditions. 249 and 250 
are Neechabhanga Raja Yogas denoting elevation 
from ordinary or low births. Then other important 
Raja Yogas (251 to 253) are dealt with. By a certain 
disposition of Saturn (254), Moon (255), lord of the 
10th (256), Jupiter (257) and the lord of the Navamsa 
occupied by the Moon (258) another set of important 
yogas are formed. The next four yogas (260 to 263) 
deal with certain equally typical Raja Yogas. 

Misfortunes are various and curious. Loss of 
wealth, prestige, children, position, incurable 
diseases, debts, imprisonment, humiliations, lunacy, 
poverty are all misfortunes going under the generic 
term of arishtas. Yoga 264 formed by the third 
being occupied by Mandi and Rahu or Mars in the 
shashtiamsa of Preta Puriha goes under the name of 


320 Three Hundred Impostant Combinations 


Galakarna and this gives rise auditory troubles. 
When the 6th lord, being a malefic occupies Lagna, 
8th or 10th, Vrana Yoga (265) is produced and this 
makes the person suffer from the dreadful disease of 
cancer. Sexual troubles are plenty and Sisna 
Vyadhi Yoga (266) which arises by Mercury’s posi- 
tion in Lagna with the 6th and 8th lords comprehends 
all these troubles. Combinations 267 to 270, viz., 
Kalatrashanda Yoga, Kushtaroga Yoga and 
Kshayaroga Yoga give clues for the detection of 
wife’s impotency and previous predilections for 
leprosy and consumption. When the lords of Lagna 
and the 6th are in a trine or quadrant with Saturn, 
Rahu or Kethu, Bandhana Yoga (271) is formed. 
This makes the person undergo imprisonment. 
Karachcheda Yoga and Sirascheda Yoga (272 and 
273) refer to punishment by way of one’s limbs or 
head being severed. Accidental deaths happen under 
Durmarana Yoga (274) formed as a result of the 
Moon, being aspected by lord of Lagna, occupying 
dusthana with Saturn or Mandi. By a certain 
disposition and ownership of Mars, Yuddhe Marana 
Yoga (275) is formed, denoting death in battle-fields. 
Collective deaths are comprehended in Sanghataka 
Marana Yogas (276 and 277). The other important 
Arishta Yogas (278-294) are Peenasaroga Yoga 
(nasa trouble), Putrakalatraheena Yoga (loss of wife 
and children), Bharyasaha Vyabhichara Yoga 
(adultery), Vamsachcheda Yoga (family extinction), 
Guhyaroga Yoga (piles, hernia, etc.), Angaheena 
Yoga (bodily deformity), Swetakushta Yoga (white 
leprosy), Pisacha Grasiha Yoga (trouble from spirits), 


Summary 321 


Andha Yogas (blindness), Vatharoga Yoga (windy 
complaints), Matibhramana Yogas (mental derange- 
ment). Judgment in regard to these yogas should 
not be pronounced in a haphazard manner, as 
unless the yoga is present in toto the results ascribed 
may not fully materialise. 

Khalawata Yoga (295) caused by the ascendant 
being a malefic sign makes one bald-headed. The 
Moon-Saturn combination rendering one harsh in 
speech goes under the name of Nishturabhashi Yoga 
(296). Fallfrom high position is brought about by 
Rajabhrashta Yoga (297) which is formed when the 
lords of the Arudha Lagna and Arudha Dwadasamsa 
are in conjunction. Raja Yoga present in a horos- 
cope gets cancelled or neutralised by the simultaneous 
presence of Raja Yoga Bhangas which arise when 
Lagna being Leo, Saturn is exalted but in a Neecha 
Navamsa ( 298) and when the Sun is in deep debilita- 
tion (299). The last combination dealt with goes 
under the name of Gohanta Yoga (300). This is 
formed by the presence of a malefic (devoid of 
benefic aspect) in a kendra and Jupiter occupying the 
8th house. 

The example horoscope given above contains the 
following yogas caused by the planets marked 
against them :— 


Yoga Planets 
Gajakesari Jupiter, Moon 
Adhi Yoga Jupiter 
Rajalakshana Yoga Jupiter, Venus, Moon Mercury 


Amala Yoga Jupiter 
al 


322 Three Husdred Important Combiuations 


Yoga Planets 
Vesi Yoga Mars, Venus, Mercury 
Sankha Yoga Moon, Mercury 
Bheri Yoga Venus, Saturn, Jupiter 
Parijata Yoga Venus 
Bramha Yoga Mercury, Venus 
Kendra Yoga All planets 


Saturn, Jupiter, Venus. 


It will be seen from the above classification that 
some of the planets have caused more than one 
yoga. Jupiter, for instance, has been responsible 
for causing five important yogas, viz., Gajakesari, 
Adhi Yoya, Rajalakshana Yoga, Amala and Bheri. 
Would he give the results of all these yogas in his 
Dasa or Bhukthi subject ‘to the modification by the 
influences of the other planets involved? This isa 
difficult question to answer. But it would be reason- 
able to assume that because Jupiter has caused quite 
a number of yogas, there would be a blending of 
the effects of all the yogas. Adhi Yoga and Amala 
Yoga have merged with Gajakesari. So far as Bheri 
and other yogas are concerned, the more powerful 
of the planet or planets would give the effects. The 
following schedule gives an idea of the capacity 
or otherwise of the different planets to confer the 
effects due to the yogas caused by them :— 


The Sun— 
He is a benefic lord aa i unit 
He is in a friendly sign ch eo? 
He is unassociated Bas 0” 
Aspect strength a ap ” 


Total we LE units 


Summary 


Mars— 


He is a benefic lord 

He is associated with Venus, another 
benefic lord 

He is in a friendly sign 

Aspect strength 


Total 


Mercury— 


He is a neutral 

He is in a friendly sign 
He is with 2 benefic lords 
Aspect strength 


Total 
Jupiter 
Venus— 


He is a benefic lord 
He is in an inimical sign 


He is associated with a benefic lord | 


Mars 
Aspect strength 


Total 


Saturn— 
He is a benefic lord 
He is in a friendly sign 
He has joined a malefic lord 
Aspect strength 


Total 


323 


—} 2° 
23 units 


0 unit 


—} > 
2? nnits 
2} units 


1 unit 


—! ” 


324 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Vesi Yoga has been caused by Mars, Venus and 
Mercury being in the 2nd from the Sun. Of these 
three planets, Mars and Mercury are the best bene- 
fics as judged above, and Venus is a benefic. The 
shadbala strength of Mars (6.4) and Mercury (6.3) 
are almost equal, while Venus is Jess strong (5.0). 
Therefore, Vesi Yoga could manifest to a larger 
extent in the (periods and) sub-periods, of Mars and 
Mercury and to a small extent during the sub-period 
of Venus. The bhavas involved are the 7th from 
Lagna and the 4th fromthe Moon. Therefore the 
native’s fortune should show improvement and 
events pertaining to the 4th and 7th should receive a 
stimulus, Mercury’s residential strength is 80% and 
the yoga can manifest to a great extent in his Dasa. 

Taking Sankha Yoga, we find that it is caused by 
Mercury and the Moon. Mercury is definitely the 
best benefic, while the Moon is only a benefic. The in- 
herent strength of the Moon is 8.9, auch greater than 
that of Mercury. Consequently, during Moon’s sub- 
period, the yoga can express itself but in a restricted 
manner as the Moon is only feebly benefic and 
moreover his residential strength is only 40%. On 
the other hand, Mercury can confer all the blessings 
of the yoga both as sub-lord and major lord as he is 
not only benefic par excellence, but has considerable 
residential strength. Taking again Bheri Yoga, the 
planets involved are Venus, Saturn and Jupiter. Of 
these, Jupiter is the best benefic, and Venus and 
Saturn are benefics. Jupiter and Saturn have more 
or less the same inherent and residential strengths. 


Summary 325 


Jupiter is the planet par excellence for conferring the 
blessings of this yoga, both as main and sub-lord. 
It must be noted that the method of interpreting 
the yoga given above has no warrant in any classical 
works on astrology. It occurred to me in the course 
of examination of a number of horoscopes that a 
method, such as the one commended above, might 
possibly act as a fillip for the development of more 
accurate and reliable methods. Yogas like Parijatha, 
Bheri, etc., add general strength or vitality to the 
horoscope. It is the sum-total of the influences, good 
and bad, that should be the basis of making future 
predictions. The technique of prediction is an art 
and the successful astrologer is he, who has acquired 
the faculty of prediction by comprehensive study, 
vast experience and keen intellectual and mental 
discipline leading finally to intuitive capacity. 


APPENDIX | 


A NOTE ON KALA SARPA YOGA 


Kalasarpa Yoga (KSY) is said to be formed if 
al) the planets are situated between Rabu and Kethu. 
The results are that countries and rulers are destroyed 
and people become afflicted. 

Strictly speaking KSY does not find a place in 
the classical astrological literature. How this yoga 
gained currency and gathered a sinister meaning is 
not clear. 

I propose to make a few observations in the light 
of my own humble experience and it is left to the 
discretion of the readers to accept them for what 
they are worth. 

The definition of KSY given above generally 
holds good. But what if all the planets are hemmed 
in between Kethu and Rahu? According to some, 
this does not constitute KSY. But in our view 
irrespective of whether the planets are between Rahu 
and Kethu or Kethu and Rahu the yoga technically 
exists. But in conferring results several variations 
are possible. The general belief is that KSY is evil 
restraining all the other good yogas present in the 
horoscope and that those having the yoga will have 
set-backs and reverses in life. It is also feared that 
Kalasarpa Yoga is capable of nullifying the most 
powerful Dhanayogas rendering a rich man poor. 


Appendix 1 327 


In interpreting Kalasarpa Yoga, consideration 
should be given to the houses which are mainly 
involved, e.g., Ist and 7th, 2nd and 8th, 3rd and 
9th, 4th and 10th, Sth and 11th, 6th and 12th, etc. 
In each case the results could be different, depending 
upon a number of other horoscopic factors. Gen- 
erally it is found, other combinations warranting, 
the 6th-12th axis (i.e, Kalasarpa Yoga) could indi- 
cate incarceration, or spiritual elevation, depending 
upon the presence or absence of powerful Bandhana 
Yogas. If the axis involves the Ist and 7th houses, 
it is not good for marital happiness. The marital 
life may become oppressive and marred by frequent 
clashes and want of understanding. If the 7th lord 
or Venus is strongly placed and well disposed then 
the evil results should not be predicted. The marital 
troubles can be avoided. Knowing in advance, the 
implications of this yoga, one can regulate one’s 
thinking and behaviour and develop an under- 
standing. 

Likewise if the houses involved are the 4th and 
10th, setbacks may mark one’s career unless the 
10th house or the 10th lord is strong and well 
placed. 

KSY has its bright shades. It makes one indus- 
trious, hard-working, aware of one’s own ability- 
despite mental restlessness. It raises the natives to 
top positions in their respective fields provided of 
course other Raja Yogas afe present. Rahu-Kethu 
axis favours rise in mundane life while Kethu-Rahu 
axis indicates elevation in spiritual matters. It is 
also found that KSY natives get betrayed by trusted 


328 Appendix I 


friends and even relatives. Suffering due to develop- 
ments in life strengthens the mind and mellows one’s 
outlook. This is a bleassing of KSY. 

Other important factors to be noted are :—(1) In 
a KSY horoscope, the evil gets intensified if the 
Lagna is between Kethu and Rahu ; (2) the evil gets 
almost neutralised if the Lagna is between Rahu and 
Kethu ; and (3) the yoga can be considered as defunct 
even if a single planet is with Rahu or Kethu or out- 
side the axis. 

The original sloka refers to agre rahu, i. e., Rahu 
must be the main or prominent planet which means 
the Yoga can become effective if planets are in 
between Rahu and Kethu. Another factor to be 
considered is if the planet associated with Rahu or 
Kethu is strongly disposed in his exaltation or own 
house, the intensity of the KSY gets reduced. The 
common fear that if Kalasarpa Yoga is fully present 
the effects of other good planetary combinations get 
nullified is not without justification. There are 
horoscopes with excellent yogas showing great 
advancement and prosperity but the natives continue 
to be mediocres. A brilliant career may suddenly 
end. Such cases may have KSY but it may not be 
the main cause for making one what he is. It may 
be one of the causes. 

In the following horoscope KSY is present because 
of the situation of all the planets in between Kethu 
and Rahu. The Yoga is not really strong as the 
Kethu-Rahu axis is involved and Lagna is not 
behind Rahu. But the other afflictions—such as the 
political planet and lord of the 9th Sun being aspec- 


Appendix I 339 


Chart No. Born 29th July 1883 at 2 p.m. L.M.T. Lat. 
41° N. Long. 16° E. 


Moon 
Saturna 
Inpiter 


Kethu | Saturn jJupit. 


Lagna 


Venus 
NAVAMSA + 


Kethu 


ne i ey 
Sun 


Balance of the Moon’s Dasa at birth : years 3-8-26. 


ted by Saturn, and Saturn being in conjunction in 
the 7th with the lord of Lagna—gave a deep fall 
despite the fact the native rose to the highest position 
by virtue of other Raja Yogas, reckoned from both 
Lagna and Chandra Lagna. The end of Saturn Dasa 
gave a violent death. Mark the fact the Kethu-Rahu 
axis involves the 12th and 6th. The native was 
betrayed by his own trusted colleagues. 

It occurs to me that undue importance need not 
be given to KSY. The view held bysome astrologers 
that KSY affects longevity and adversely affects 
the operation of other yogas favouring rise in life, 
achievement and accomplishment is not tenable. 
The overall assessment of the horoscope is impor- 
tant. No single yoga, including KSY, is capable of 
marring or making a _ horoscope. In our view 
Kalasarpa Yoga plays an importan role in mundane 
astrology and is not of much importancet in indivi- 
dual charts. 


APPENDIX HU 


INDEX OF YOGAS 


Name of Yoga Yoga Page 

No. No. 

1. Adhi Yoga _— 7 27 

2. Amaia Yoga — 13 36 

3. Amsavatara Yoga _ 50 75 

4. Anapathya Yoga _ 211 197 

5. Anapha Yoga — 3 19 

6. Andha Yoga _ 165 163 

7&8. Andha Yogas — 288 & 289 290 

9. Angaheena Yoga - 285 287 

10. Annadana Yoga - 171 166 
11. Apakeerti Yoga _ 244 236 
12. Aputra Yoga -- 224 213 
13, Asatyavadi Yoga _— 157 157 
14. Ayatnadhanalabha Yoga - 143 152 
15. Bahudravyaarjana Yoga _ 129 143 
16. Bandhana Yoga — 271 274 
17. Bandhubhisthyaktha Yoga _ 195 186 
18 & 19. Bandhu Puyya Yoga — 193 & 194 185 
20. Bhadra Yoga — 23 53 
21. Bhaga Chumbana Yoga _ 240 232 
22. Bhagini Yoga, Eka _ 179 172 
23. Bhagya Yoga _ 241 232 
24. Bharathi Yoga _ 29 62 
25. Bharyasahavyabhichari Yoga — 282 283 
26. Bhaskara Yoga _ 159 158 
27. Bhatruvriddhi Yoga ~ 177 169 
28. Bheri Yoga _ 45 67 


29. Bhojana Soukhya Yoga _ 170 165 


Appendix I 


30. Bhojana Yoga, Paranna _ 
31. Brahma Yoga _ 
32. Budha-Aditya Yoga - 
33. Budha Yoga = 
34. Buddhi Jada Yoga > 
35. Buddhimaturya Yoga = 
36. Chandika Yoga —_ 
37. Chandra Mangala Yoga _ 
38. Chapa Yoga _ 
39. Chatussagara Yoga _ 
40. Daridra Yoga _ 
41 to 50. Daridra Yogas _ 
$1. Dehakashta Yoga _ 
52. Dehapushti Yoga _ 
53 to 55. Dehathoulya Yogas _- 
56 Devendra Yoga _ 
57 & 58. Dhanaprapti Yogas, 
Bhratrumoolad = 
59 to 63. Dhana Yogas _ 
64 to 69. Dhana Yogas _ 
70. Dhana Yoga, Amaranantha — 
71. Dhana Yoga, Asthya Vayast — 
72. Dhana Yoga, Balya _ 
73. Dhana Yoga, Kalatramoolad — 
74. Dhana Yoga, Matrumoolad — 
75. Dhana Yoga, Putramoolad — 
76. Dhana Yoga, Madhya Vayas: — 
77. Dhana Yoga, Satrumoolad _ 
78 to 80. Dhana Yogas, Swaveeryad 
81. Dhatrutwa Yoga _— 
82. Dhurdhura Yoga oa 
83 & 84. Durmukha Yogas = 
85. Duryoga _ 
86. Gajakesari Yoga = 
87. Gaja Yoga = 
88. Galakarna Yoga _ 
89. Gandharva Yoga _ 


104 

144 to 153 
110 
109 

114 to 116 
55 


136 & 137 

118 to 122 

123 to 128 
142 
134 
135 
141 
138 
139 
133 
140 

130 to 132 
243 
4 

168 & 169 
103 
1 
48 
264 
60 


332 Appendix [I 


90. Garuda Yoga — 66 97 
91. Gauri Yoga _— 28 60 
92 & 93. Grihanasa Yogas _— 191 & 192 184 
94. Griha Prapta Yogas, Ayatna -—- 189 & 190 183 
95. Griha Yoga, Uttama _ 187 180 
96. Gohanta Yoga _ 300 304 
97. Gola Yoga _— 68 100 
98. Go Yoga — 67 99 
99. Guhya Roga Yoga — 284 286 
100. Hamsa Yoga — 19 43 
101. Harihara Brahma Yoga ~ 51 76 
102. Harsha Yoga _ 105 429 
103. Indra Yoga - 64 95 
104. Jada Yoga -- 158 157 
105. Jaya Yoga ~ 58 85 
106. Jara Yoga = 236 226 
107. Kahala Yoga _ 15 39 
108. Kalanidhi Yoga _ 49 73 
109. Kalatrashanda Yoga — 267 265 
110 to $12. Kapata Yogas — 202 to 204 192 
113. Karascheda Yoga — 272 274 
114. Keniadruma Yoga _ 5 22 
115. Khalawata Yoga _ 295 300 
116& 117. Krisanga Yogas _ 112 & 113 132 
118. Kshaya Roga Yoga _— 270 267 
119, Kulavardhana Yoga _ 70 101 
120. Kurma Yoga ‘ _ 34 80 
121 & 122. Kushtaroga Yogas — 268 & 269 265 
123. Kusuma Yoga = 52 77 
124. Labha Yoga, Ayatnadhana _— 143 152 
125. Lakshmi Yoga _ 27 58 
126. Mahabhagya Yoga _ 25 55 
127. Makuta Yoga —_ 56 83 
128. Malavya Yoga — 20 48 
129 to 140. Malika Yogas _ 32 to 43 65 
141. Marana Yoga, Dur _ 274 277 


142. Marana Yoga, Yuddhae —_ 275 278 


Appendix II 

143 & 144. Marana Yogas, Sanghataka 276 & 277 
145. Marud Yoga — 160 

146 to 149. Matibhramana Yogas — 291 to 294 
150 & 151. Matrudheerghayur Yogas 196 & 197 
152. Matrugami Yoga — 200 

153 & 154. Matrunasa Yogas _- 198 & 199 
155. Matru Satrutwa Yoga — 207 
156. Matru Sneha Yoga ~ 208 
157. Matsya Yoga _— $3 
158. Mooka Yoga — 163 
159. Mridanga Yoga — 46 

160 to 191. Nabhasa Yogas — 71 to 102 
192. Netranasa Yoga _ 164 

193 & 194. Nishkapata Yogas _ 205 & 206 
195. Nishturabhashi Yoga — 296 
196. Obhayachari Yoga — 18 
197. Parakrama Yoga _ 182 
198. Parihasaka Yoga — 156 
199. Parijatha Yoga _ 47 
200. Parvata Yoga — 14 
201. Peenasaroga: Yoga — 278 
202. Pisacha Grastha Yoga _ 287 
203. Pitru Marana Yoga, Jananatpurvam 242 
204. Pittaroga Yoga —_ 279 
205. Pretasapa Yoga — 219 
206. Pushkala Yoga _ 26 
207. Putrakafatraheena Yoga = 281 
208 & 209. Putranasa Yogas, Kalanirdesat 229 & 230 
210. Putra Sukha Yoga _ 235 

211 & 212. Putra Yogas, Bahu = 220 & 221 
213 & 214. Putra Yogas, Datta — 222 & 223 
215. Putra Yoga, Eka — 225 

216 & 217. Putra Yogas, Kalanirdesat 227 & 228 
218. Putra Yoga, Jataja — 237 
219. Putra Yoga, Sat _— 226 
220. Rajabhrashta Yoga at 297 


221. Rajalakshana Yoga _— 10 


333 


279 
159 
293 
187 
19) 
188 
195 
195 
79 
162 
68 
102 
162 
i94 
30) 
42 
175 
155 
70 
38 
280 
289 
233 
281 
208 
56 
283 
216 
226 
210 
212 
214 
216 
228 
215 
30) 
31 


334 Appendix If 


222 & 223. Raja Yoga Bhangas - 298 & 299 302 
224 to 242. Raja Yogas — 245 to 263 237 
243. Ravi Yoga - 65 95 
244. Rogagrastha Yoga _— Hl 131 
245. Ruchaka Yoga — 22 5! 
246. Sada Sanchara Yoga — 117 135 
247. Sahodara Yoga, Dwadasa — 180 173 
248. Sahodara Yoga, Sapthasankhye 181 175 
249. Sahodareesangama Yoga _ 201 192 
250. Sakata Yoga — 12 34 
251. Sankha Yoga 44 66 
252. Sarala Yoga a 106 $29 
253. Saraswathi Yoga - 161 160 
254. Sareera Soukbya Yoga _ 108 130 
255 to 258. Sarpasapa Yogas - 212 to 215 198 
259. Sarpaganda Yoga - 174 168 
260. Sasa Yoga - 2k 49 
261. Satkalatra Yoga - 239 230 
262. Satkathadisravana Yoga 186 179 
263. Siracheda Yoga — 273 275 
264. Sisnavyadhi Yoga _ 266 263 
265. Siva Yoga 61 89 
266. Sodaranasa Yoga _ 178 (71 
267. Sraddhannabhuktha Yoga —_ (73 168 
268. Sreenatha Yoga ~ 31 64 
269 & 270. Sumukha Yogas - 166 & 167 [64 
271. Stree Yoga, Bahu - 238 228 
272. Sunapha Yoga _ 2 16 
273. Sutakshaya Yoga, Bhratrusapa — 218 207 
274, Sutakshaya Yoga, Matrusapa ~- 217 206 
275. Sutakshaya Yoga, Pitrusapa 216 202 
276. Swetakusta Yoga - 286 288 
277. Theevrabuddhi Yoga - 232 221 
278. Thrikalagnana Yoga - 234 224 
279. Trilochana Yoga _ 69 (Ol 
280 & 28!. Vahana Yogas _ 209 & 210 196 


282 Vamsacheda Yoga 283 285 


Appendix 11 


283. 
284. 
285. 
286. 
287. 
288. 
289. 
290. 
29. 
292. 
293. 
294. 
295. 
296. 
297, 
298. 


Vanchanachorabheethi Yoga — 
Vasi Yoga — 
Vasumathi Yoga _ 
Vatharoga Yoga _— 
Vesi Yoga — 
Vakchalana Yoga _— 
Vichitra Saudha Prakara Yoga — 
Vidyut Yoga _— 
Vikalangapatni Yoga _— 
Vimala Yoga — 
Vishaprayoga Yoga _ 
Vishnu Yoga — 
Vrana Yoga _ 
Yuddha Praveena Yoga _ 
Yuddhatpoorvadridhachitta Yoga 
Yuddhatpaschaddrubha Yoga — 


299 & 300. Yukthi Samanwithavagmi 


Yogas _ 


280 
107 
176 

62 
265 
183 
184 
185 


154 & 155 


AN INDEX OF TECHNICAL TERMS 


Adrishta — Unseen, fortune, luck 

Alpayu — Short life 

Annadana —- Free feeding 

Anthara — An astrological time-measure 

Apoklimas — 3, 6,9 and 12 houses 

Arishtayoga — Combination of planets for 
misfortune 

Aroodha Rasi — The sign which is as distant 


from the lord as the lord is 
from the house concerned 


Astha —- Combust 

Ayurdaya — Longevity 

Bhagya — Fortune, luck 

Balarishta — Infant mortality 

Balishta — Strong 

Bhava — House 

Bhava Chakra — House diagram 

Bhavana — House 

Bhavasandhi — Junction point of two adjacent 
houses or bhavas 

Brahmin — The first caste among Hindus 

Bhrathrukaraka — Mars—lIndicator of brothers 

Brikat Jataka — A classical treatise on astrology 

Brihat Samhita — A classical treatise on natural 
phenomena 

Budha — Mercury 

Budhaditya Yoga — Sun-Mercury combination 

Bhukthi — An astrological time-measure 

Chandra — The Moon 

Chandra Lagna — The Moon-sign 

Chandra Mangala Yoga — Moon-Mars combination 


Chara Rasi —~ Moveable sign 


Index 


Chathurthamsa 
Chathushtaya 
Dhanayoga 
Dasa 


Devendra 
Dhanakaraka 
Dhanus 
Dharma 
Digbala 
Drekkana 
Dusthana 


Dwadasamsa 
Dwadasaroodha 
Dwirdwadasa 


Dwiswabhava Rasi 
Gnanayoga 


Gopuramsa 


Gulika 

Guru 

Hora 

Hala 
Jatakachandrika 
Jatakadesamarga 
Jataka Tatwa 
Jaya 

Kalabala 
Kalatra 

Kanya 

Karma 

Karaka 


— jth division of a sign 


— Combination for wealth 


4th house 


337 


— Planetary period, an astro 


— King of the celestials 


logical timme-measure 


— Indicator of wealth (Jupiter) 


Sagittarius 
Righteousness 


— Directional strength 


— 1/3 division of a sign 


—A malefic house (6th, 8th and 


— 1/12th division of a sign 


12th) 


— Aroodha Rasi of the [2th sign 
— Mutual 2nd and [2th positions 


of planets 
Duval sign 
Planetary 


combination 


for 


higher wisdom and knowledge 
—A_ distinction attained by a 
planet when it occupies 8 own 


vargas or divisions 
A secondary planet 
Jupiter 
4 division of a sign 
Plough 


— An ancient astrological treatise 


-do- 
- do- 
Victory 
— Tempora! strength of planets 
Wife 
Virgo 


— Doctrine of rebirth, action, etc. 


Indicator 


338 Three Hundred Important Combinations 


Kendra — A quadrant 

Kendradhipathya dosha — Affliction due to ownership of a 
quadrant 

Kuta — Mars 

Kumbha — Aquarius 

Lagna — Ascendant 

Lagnadhipathi — Ascendant-lord 

Labha -— Gain, the Iith house 

Makara -~ Capricorn 

Makuta — Crown 

Mandi — A secondary planet for Saturn 

Maraka — Death-dealing pianet 

Matsya — Fish 

Meena ~— Pisces 

Mesha — Aries 

Mithuna — Gemini 

Moksha — Salvation 

Moolathrikonadhibala — Strength obtained by a planet 


due to residence in the various 
vargas or divisions 


Mridwamsa —A certain sensitive point ina 
sign 

Naisargikabala — Natural strength 

Navamsa — 1/9th division of a sign 

Neecha — Debilitation, debilitated 

Neecha bhanga — Cancellation of debilitation 

Nirayana ~— Sidereal or fixed zodiac 

Panapara — 2,5, 8 and 11 signs 

Panchamahapurusha 

Yoga — A special combination 

Parakrama — Valour 

Parivarthana ~— Exchange of places 

Parvathamsa — A planet occupying its own 
vargas three times 

Pithrukaraka — Sun—indicator of father and 


paternal affairs 


Index 339 


Pretasapa — Curse by manes 

Putra — Son 

Rajayoga — Aspecial planetary combination 
for eminence 

BRandhra — 8th house 

Rasi — Sign (zodiacal) 

Rasj Chakra — The sign diagram 

Ravi — The Sun 

Sambhuhoraprakasika — An ancient astrological treatise 

Samudra — Ocean, Sea 

Sani — Saturn 

Sapthamsa — 1/7th division of a sign 

Sapthavargajabala — Strength due to residence of a 
planet in different vargas 

Saravali — Aclassical astrological treatise 

Sarpasapa — Curse by serpent 

Satayogamanjari — An ancient astrological 
treatise 

Satru — Enemy 

Sayana — Tropica] or moveable zodiac 

Shadbala Pinda — The sum-total of six sources of 
strength of planets 

Shashtiamsa — 1/60th division of a sign 

Shodasavarga — 16 divisions of a sign 

Simha — Leo 

Simhasanamsa — A planet occupying its own 
varga 4 times 

Sukha — Comforts, happiness 

Sukra — Venus 

Sukranadi — Aclassicaltreatise in applied 
astrology 

Sutakshaya — Extinction of progeny 

Swakshetra — Own sign 

Swa-Varga — Own division 

Tatkalika — Temporary 

Thridoshas — The 3 primary humours in the 


human system 


340 


Thrikalagnana 


Thrikona 
Thula 
Vahana 
Vahanastana 


Vakra 
Vedha 
Vihaga 
Vikrama 
Vishnu 


Vraya 
Vrischika 
Vrishabha 
Upachaya 
Uchcha 
Yoga 
Yogakaraka 
Yogee 


Three Hundred Important Combinitions 


— Knowledge of past, present and 


future 

— Trine 

~—- Libra 

— Vehicle. conveyance 

— House indicating conveyance 
(4th) 

— Retrograde 

— Obstruction 

— Bird 

— 3rd house 


— The sustuining aspect of the 
Hindu Trinity 


— Loss or 
— Scorpio 
— Taurus 
om 3, 6, 10 


expenditure 


and !1 signs 


— Exaltation 
— Planetary combination 
— Conferor of fame 


— Saint. 


one who has attained 


mental equanimity 


Spe 


