Additional praise for 

A Scheme of Heaven

“Educated in both the humanities and the sciences, Boxer is uniquely 
qualified to guide his readers into a fascinating story of mathemat-
ical complexity. The overarching theme of our human destiny is 
inspirational.”

— Norman Austin, emeritus professor of classics, University of Arizona

“Astrologers as the first and most ambitious quants and data scientists? 
Alexander Boxer’s remarkable book reveals astrology’s mathematical, sci-
entific, historical, philosophical, and literary roots. He shows that astrol-
ogy is not only an indispensable part of science history but also springs 
from the same mixture of motives: the desire to control the world and to 
wonder about it.”

— Robert P. Crease, author of The Workshop and the World 

“Through multidisciplinary lenses, Alexander Boxer frames astrology as 
one of the most ambitious and daring of all human intellectual endeavors. 
This stellar book is a probe launched into the mysteries of the cosmos, 
venturing out to rekindle our timeless capacity to marvel at the universe.”

— Ferdinando Buscema, magic experience designer and 
magician in residence, Institute for the Future

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   1 10/22/19   9:48 AM



A  
SCHEME  

OF  
HEAVEN

A S TROLOGY and THE B IRTH of SCIE NCE

ALEX ANDER  
BOXER

PROFILE BOOKS

Scheme of Heaven CS6.indd   5 11/11/2019   18:21



First published in Great Britain in 2020 by 
Profile Books Ltd

29 Cloth Fair
London

EC1A 7JQ

www.profilebooks.com

First published in the United States of America in 2020 by
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc

Copyright © Alexander Boxer, 2020

1 3 5 7 9 10 8 6 4 2 

Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Clays Ltd, Elcograf S.p.A.

The moral right of the author has been asserted.

All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no part of this 
publication may be reproduced, stored or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, 
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise), 

without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the publisher of this book.

A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.

ISBN 978 1 78125 963 4
eISBN 978 1 78283 409 0

Scheme of Heaven CS6.indd   6 11/11/2019   18:21



CONTENTS

HOROSCOPE xi

  INTRODUC TION 1

 1 TO E V E RY TH ING TH E R E I S A S E A SON 9

 2 FROM OB SCU R E B EG IN N ING S 31
  AMARNA, EGYPT, 1338 BC

 3 A Q U ICK S PIN A ROU N D TH E CE LE S TI A L S PH E R E 49
  SYRACUSE, SICILY, 212 BC

 4 S IG N S FROM A BOV E : M A RCU S M A N ILI U S A N D TH E TR A IT S  
OF TH E ZODI AC 71

  ROME, 44 BC

 5 CL AU DI U S P TOLEMY ’ S A S TROLOG IC A L TR AV E L G U IDE 93
  ULTIMA THULE, 79

 6 HOW U N IQ U E I S A HOROSCOPE? V ET TI U S VA LE N S  
A N D TH E GOS PE L OF FATE 119

  ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT, 139

 7 PAT TE R N S , PAT TE R N S , E V E RY W H E R E! M A S H A’A LL A H ’ S 
A S TROLOG IC A L H I S TORY OF TH E WOR LD 149

  BAGHDAD, 762

 8 W H E N YOU W I S H U PON A S TA R , W H ICH A LGOR ITH M  
S HOU LD YOU U S E? G U IDO BON AT TI ’ S A S TROLOG IC A L  
W H E E L OF FORTU N E 173

  MOUNT VENTOUX, FRANCE, 1336

 9 W H AT ’ S IN A N A M E? A S TRONOM E R S , A S TROLOG E R S ,  
A N D M ATH EM ATICI A N S 205

  HERREVAD ABBEY, DENMARK (NOW SWEDEN), 1572

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   9 10/25/19   9:48 AM



x CONTE NT S

 10 B IG A S TROLOGY 229
  MARE TRANQUILLITATIS, THE MOON, 1969

 CONCLU S ION : U PON TH E WOR DS OF NO ON E 261

AC K N OW L E DG M E N T S 265

N OT E S 267

I N D E X 301

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   10 10/22/19   9:48 AM



A HOROSCOPE

Upon Opening This Book  
for the Very First Time

T oday you find yourself presented with a mysterious opportu-
nity. Take it, even if you’re not sure it was really meant for you. 

The focus you apply at this moment has the potential to reveal a 
number of unexpected connections, each of which can give you new 
insights into how things stand around you. Go ahead, trust your 
instincts. Your intuition has always been a faithful guide whenever 
you’ve been true to yourself. Yes, mischievous Mercury has been in 
and out of retrograde more than once this past year, and this hasn’t 
made justifying yourself to others any easier. But Jupiter, ruler of the 
sky, is there to reassure you that, right now, it’s your opinion which 
matters most. And the Moon? Don’t mind her. That scary aspect of 
hers will look completely different by the time she glides into a new 
sign in just a few days. Besides, if all of this year’s transitions have 
amounted to anything, it’s that you’ve emerged from them even more 
resilient and receptive. Your whole being is now perfectly tuned to 
appreciate the new perspectives that come with a challenging new 
endeavor. But remember: even if it was the stars which brought you 
here, only you can decide how much further you’ll go.

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   11 10/22/19   9:48 AM



INTRODUCTION

Do the stars and planets really have something to tell us about the 
cycles of history, the secrets of love, the reasons your last job was 
no longer right for you, and why everyone born in May is so incred-

ibly amazing? Astrology’s unflinching reply is: yes, yes, yes, and definitely yes. 
That the configurations of the heavens above can influence our lives here on 
Earth below is, of course, the basic idea of astrology. Modern science has flatly 
rejected astrology’s claims but this hasn’t hobbled astrology’s charms, certainly 
not if the continued popularity of online and magazine horoscopes is anything 
to go by. Let’s leave to one side for a moment all the arguments about whether 
astrology is wrong, or right, or still wrong even when it’s sometimes right. I’m 
here to make the case that astrology is fascinating and still tremendously rel-
evant as a challenge to what we think we know and why we think we know it.

For starters, the questions astrology asks— questions about the patterns 
of the universe and our place within them— are about as deep and as capti-
vating as they come. If there really is a way to tap into the hidden rhythms of 
the cosmos, wouldn’t you want to know about it? But even more intriguing, 
at least from where I stand, is how astrology uses mathematics and data to 
investigate these questions. Over two thousand years ago, astrologers became 
the first to stumble upon the powerful storytelling possibilities inherent in 
numerical data, possibilities that become all the more persuasive when pre-

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   1 10/22/19   9:48 AM



2 A SCH EM E OF H E AV E N

sented graphically in a chart or figure. Although it took a while for the rest of 
the world to catch on, the art of weaving a story out of numbers and figures, 
often to encourage a specific course of action, is used everywhere today, from 
financial forecasts to dieting advice to weather models.

And yet numbers still mislead, figures still deceive, and predictions 
still fail— sometimes spectacularly so— even those that rely on exception-
ally sophisticated mathematics. So, are the techniques being used today to 
parse and package quantitative information any more effective than what was 
devised by astrologers millennia ago? 

In order to make that assessment, it’s first necessary to have a basic 
understanding of what astrology is and how it works. But that sort of 
understanding— one that’s at least adequate to resolve some seemingly 
straightforward technical questions— is surprisingly hard to come by for 
such a long- lived and influential craft. Being frustrated in my own search 
for a simple yet competent overview of astrology, I decided I might just as 
well write one myself. This, curious reader, is the book you now hold in 
your hands.

My own interests in astrology stem from several directions, but mainly 
it’s my enchantment with any sufficiently musty book from the history of sci-
ence that nudged me to investigate astrology in a more detailed way. Astrol-
ogy was the ancient world’s most ambitious applied mathematics problem, 
a grand data- analysis enterprise sustained for centuries by some of history’s 
most brilliant minds, from Ptolemy to al- Kindi to Kepler. Just consider that 
for much of the last two thousand years, the word “mathematician” (math-
ematicus) simply meant an astrologer; there was no distinction.

Throughout its history, astrology’s aim has been nothing short of a sys-
tematic account linking the nature of the heavens to our own human nature. 
And from the computations of Copernicus to the sonnets of Shakespeare, 
even to the sculptures in Rockefeller Center, there are, quite simply, recesses 
of our culture that can’t be accessed without astrology’s key. This is especially 
true in fields such as math and astronomy, where so many of the principal 
innovators were themselves practicing astrologers. Take, for instance, the 
Renaissance physician and mathematician Girolamo Cardano, who, when he 

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   2 10/22/19   9:48 AM



INTRODUC TION 3

wasn’t busy laying the foundations of algebra and probability theory, com-
piled one of the first collections of celebrity horoscopes. Here, for example, is 
his horoscope for King Henry VIII of England.

Birth horoscope of King Henry VIII. Girolamo Cardano, 
Libelli Quinque (Nuremberg: Johannes Petreius, 1547), 
Geniture 46.

Diagrams like this appear seemingly everywhere in books and pam-
phlets from the Renaissance and scientific revolution. For the longest time, 
I would skip over them, unable to make heads or tails of what seemed to 
me like graphical gibberish. But to an expert interpreter like Cardano, these 
inscrutable hieroglyphs evidently had the capacity to brew a bottomless pot 
of juicy gossip. Were you taken aback by Henry’s break with the Catholic 
Church? Well, now, who’s being naive? According to Cardano, Venus in the 
Ninth House in a sextile aspect to Mercury is just screaming a major change 
to the laws. His six wives? They really ought to have known better than to 
get involved with someone whose Moon was in the Seventh House in square 
with the Sun, while Saturn was in aspect with Venus at the same time Mars 
was in aspect with Jupiter, the very lord of the Seventh House! Talk about 
asking for marriage troubles!

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   3 10/22/19   9:48 AM



4 A SCH EM E OF H E AV E N

I find horoscopes such as Henry’s exciting on several levels. First, there’s 
the exquisitely complex astronomical calculations needed to generate a horo-
scope, which is really a map of the sky as seen from a particular spot on Earth 
at a particular moment in time. The millennia- long project to refine these cal-
culations led directly to Copernicus’s revolution and, from there, to modern 
science as we know it today.

Then there was the problem of how to condense and arrange all of this 
information. Typically this was done visually. The graphical depiction of the 
positions of the Sun, Moon, and planets constituted what William Lilly— by 
far the most notorious astrologer in England during the 1600s— referred to 
colorfully as a “scheme of heaven.” As an homage to this art, I’ve included 
a number of these heavenly schemes throughout this book as a way to show 
how the solar system was configured at key moments in astrology’s history. 
The graphical style I’ve adopted, which is a bit different from Cardano’s, takes 
the outputs of the most modern astronomical computations and displays 
them according to the design of a very ancient and very beautiful astronomi-
cal instrument called an astrolabe (plate 1). Presented in this format, King 
Henry’s horoscope now looks like the diagram on the opposite page. 

No doubt about it, there’s a tremendous amount of information here. But 
astrology’s particular genius is that it can encode all of the complex astro-
nomical data needed for its operations so perfectly within a single, abstract 
image. To a remarkable degree, then, the exercise of understanding astrology 
is really the exercise of learning how to “read” one of these figures. As this book 
unfolds, I’ll describe how to do this piece by piece so that, by the end, you’ll 
be able to visualize the sky in these charts as intuitively as you can see your 
house in its floor plan, or navigate your way through a city with a street map.

To sketch out a scheme of heaven like this was, however, only the begin-
ning of the astrologer’s art. It was still necessary to interpret the data once 
it had been reduced to graphical form, and this is where things really got 
interesting. As Cardano’s reading of Henry VIII’s horoscope shows, these 
sparse diagrams somehow contain within themselves a wild multitude of 
possible plotlines. But which ones are expressed and which ones suppressed? 
To borrow a term from biology, horoscopes are like the “pluripotent cells” of 

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   4 10/22/19   9:48 AM



INTRODUC TION 5

An Astrolabe-Style “Scheme of Heaven” for Tuesday, June 28, 1491  
The Birth of England’s King Henry VIII

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   5 10/22/19   9:48 AM



6 A SCH EM E OF H E AV E N

storytelling, capable of producing many, but still not quite every possible out-
come. Considered this way, horoscopes offer up neatly wrapped little pack-
ages for examining the mischief that can arise when words are translated into 
numbers and numbers are translated back into words, even if the numbers 
themselves are handled with the utmost precision and care. The various ways 
the borders get blurred between numbers and words, whether innocently or 
otherwise, can be thought of as a second type of scheme, one that astrologers 
were the first, but by no means the last, to grapple with.

As someone who analyzes data for a living, my curiosity about these 
schemes of heaven—“schemes” in their double sense of both a graphical blue-
print and an interpretive sleight- of-hand— ultimately became too much to 
resist. I wanted to understand them, to know how they work, to take them apart 
and put them back together again. And so, perhaps not fully aware of what I 
was getting myself into or where it all would lead, I took a deep breath, I set 
aside my preconceptions, and I began in all seriousness to examine astrology.

I can’t say that calculating planetary aspects to high precision was some-
thing I ever pictured myself doing but, then again, maybe it all makes perfect 
sense. I love opportunities to mash up ancient and modern technology, and 
when it comes to archaic high- tech, astrology is the most formidable and 
therefore the most tantalizing challenge of them all. Also, with astrology, it 
helps to have a somewhat eclectic knowledge of both math and dead languages 
which, by an odd quirk of my upbringing (unless Fate insists on taking credit), 
I happen to possess. This combination isn’t terribly rare, but it’s uncommon 
enough that it seems to have left astrology surprisingly underexplored.

Of course, in a book of this scope, it’s not possible to focus on more than 
just a few of astrology’s many facets. Certain topics, such as the astrology of 
India and China, I’ve avoided altogether on account of the fact that I know 
very little about them. But the traditions of Greek, Roman, and Renaissance 
astronomy and the modern- day arts of statistical analysis are subjects which 
I know quite well, the latter through my profession, the former through a 
lifetime’s fascination. Does this give me license to write about astrology— a 
topic for which the whole idea of expertise seems thoroughly up for grabs? 
That’s a judgment you’ll have to make for yourself. For my own part, I make 

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   6 10/22/19   9:48 AM



INTRODUC TION 7

no pretense to astrological mastery. My hope, instead, is simply to offer a 
different perspective on a subject for which it’s all too easily said that there’s 
nothing new to be said about it.

At a minimum, I want to give astrology a treatment that’s open and 
fair. Unlike many others who have a scientific background, I’ve never felt 
any particular animus toward astrology. On the contrary, its taboo status 
as the arch- pseudoscience makes it all the more delicious to think about. 
Why, for example, is astrology considered unscientific while economics— 
which also uses complex mathematical formulas to predict the future with 
results that are, let’s say, mixed— is regarded as a perfectly respectable field of 
study? Being able to articulate the distinctions, yes, but also the commonali-
ties between astrology and other modes of asking questions about the world 
helps to clarify which approaches are fruitful, which aren’t, and why.

Astrologers were the quants and data scientists of their day, and those of 
us who are enthusiastic about the promise of numerical data to unlock the 
secrets of ourselves and our world would do well simply to acknowledge that 
others have come this way before. What profession would I, or anyone who 
delights in numbers, have been drawn to had we lived five hundred years 
ago? A thousand years ago? Two thousand years ago? Astrologers were the 
originators, and for most of history the sole cultivators of a tradition that 
transmuted numbers into stories. And like any story that’s been retold for 
generations, astrology’s account of the cosmos has been refined to just its 
most captivating themes. Regardless of whether astrology has distilled any 
truth or not, what seems clear to me is that it has bottled up a certain type 
of magic, one that has proven time and again its ability to get us to stop and 
think about our connections to the wider universe. Against a backdrop of 
indifference, this is some magic indeed. So who’s to say we can’t use a little 
of astrology’s charms for our own ends? Whether you’re intrigued by astrol-
ogy, repelled by it, or anywhere in between, we can interpret astrology’s 
bold claims as an open invitation to explore some of the deepest mysteries 
of who we are and where we are. This book is my elaborate way of saying yes 
to that invitation, and now it’s my turn to invite you to come explore these 
mysteries with me.

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   7 10/22/19   9:48 AM



1

TO EVERYTHING 
THERE IS A SEASON

When I behold Thy heavens, the work of Thy fingers,
the moon and the stars, which Thou hast established;
What is man, that Thou art mindful of him?
and the son of man, that Thou thinkest of him?

Psalm 8:4–5

It’s possible that in ages past, there was a common intimacy with the night, 
even if this has long since been lost to us in modern times. I’m not so sure. 
To be outside, alone, on a clear and moonless night, far from any lights, 

far from any trees, and looking up at the sky is not an ordinary thing. I’m 
skeptical that it ever was. No, I don’t believe that we ever really notice the stars 
except in those rare moments when their possibility of being seen coincides 
with our openness to seeing them. But if you catch them in their splendor, 
glimmering across the brisk night air like icy drops of cosmic fire, then you 
have no choice except to stop and notice them. They engulf your vision fully. 
They enfold your thoughts up whole. And there you stand beneath them feel-
ing suddenly, utterly exposed. Because if you can see the stars that clearly, 
might not they, then, see you too? Thus, when David sang his psalm, gazing 
up at the sky in wonder, it wasn’t the contents of the night which moved him; 

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   9 10/22/19   9:48 AM



10 A SCH EM E OF H E AV E N

it was his astonishment that just as he was contemplating the universe, so too 
the universe, or rather its creator, was contemplating him right back.

This perception of a mutual regard between man and the cosmos has, 
from our earliest beginnings, animated humanity’s efforts to understand the 
world and our place within it. Modern science began from studying the heav-
ens, and in this sense we can say that, yes, the stars really have communicated 
to us many profound truths about the nature of things. The bigger question 
isn’t whether the universe is speaking but, instead, how far we can ever hope 
to comprehend what it might be saying. Because for all the progress that’s 
been made in deciphering the Book of Nature, what expectation can there be 
that humankind will ever manage more than a thin and incomplete trans-
lation? The language of the cosmos is simply not our native tongue. And if 
ever we wanted a reminder of the mismatch between the world as it is and 
the world as it is processed through the filters of our minds, all we need to 
do is look up at the stars.

THE STR ANGENESS OF SEEING

Quick: On a clear, dark night, how many stars can be seen in the sky? A 
thousand? A million? A billion? If you’re like me, you might think a million 
sounds high but it’s probably at least in the ballpark. Actually, in the modern, 
high- precision Hipparcos star catalog there are only a paltry 5,044 stars that 
have a visual magnitude of 6.00 or less— that’s the value generally considered 
to be the limit of what’s visible with the naked eye. Since at any given moment 
roughly half of these are hidden below the horizon, seeing a couple thousand 
stars in the sky at any one time is as good as it gets— ever—even on a perfectly 
pristine night. Does this seem like a surprisingly low number to you? It did to 
me. So consider this our first hint, courtesy of the stars, that our natural abil-
ity to gauge large numbers is not necessarily to be trusted without question.

Now, a few thousand may sound like a small number, especially when 
talking about stars, but it would still be very difficult, if not impossible, to 
create a mental picture of the heavens that consisted of these several thou-
sand stars regarded individually. Yet this bewildering chaos of darkness and 

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   10 10/22/19   9:48 AM



TO E V ERY THING TH ER E I S A S E A SON 11

light is immediately converted into a more intelligible map of the sky simply 
by grouping the stars into constellations. The specific shapes of the constel-
lations may be arbitrary, but the tendency to cluster the stars this way can 
be found across the various stargazing cultures. The stars that make up the 
constellation Ursa Major, for example, have been seen as a bear, a dipper, a 
wagon, a plough, and an ox’s leg, to list just a few of its varied personae.

Quite clearly, our brains have become exquisitely tuned to recognize the 
shapes of people, animals, and other objects meaningful to our daily lives. 
And when what occupies our field of view defies any discernible pattern, we 
tend to foist these same shapes onto otherwise amorphous scenes such as 
cloudscapes, rock formations, or the stars in the sky. Does the stone outcrop 
in figure 1.1(a) look like a human head to you? If so, then your mind has per-
formed a remarkable act of association, one which emphasized the object’s 
loose outlines while completely discounting other information, such as size, 
texture, color and situational context. Rock formations like this one, just like 
the constellations above, are good indicators that we rarely perceive the world 
in a perfectly straightforward way. 

Interestingly, a very similar phenomenon occurs in computer vision 
applications. It’s an impressive technological feat to coax a computer to rec-
ognize a class of visual objects— say, for example, dogs— within a larger col-
lection of images. But once you succeed in doing this, it’s just as hard, if not 
harder, to restrain the algorithm from falsely seeing dogs everywhere. Figure 
1.1(b), for instance, uses an algorithm called DeepDream— originally devel-
oped by Google in 2015— to show what a computer- vision application trained 
to recognize dogs “sees” when looking at a photograph of clouds. The com-
posite images generated by DeepDream are sometimes illuminating, occa-
sionally beautiful, but mostly just delightfully bizarre. Yet what these images 
do reveal is that a computer that has been taught to see faces and animals like 
we do— namely, by emphasizing outlines above everything else— will tend 
to see faces and animals in the clouds just like we do, too. This suggests, not 
surprisingly, that our peculiarly human way of seeing the world is probably 
inseparable from our peculiarly human ways of misconstruing what we see.

Of course, the fact that the constellations have traditionally taken on 

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   11 10/22/19   9:48 AM



12 A SCH EM E OF H E AV E N

Figure 1.1: What Do You See?

(a) The Grey Man of 
the Merrick, Galloway 
Hills, Scotland.  
GARY COOK / 
AGEFOTOSTOCK.

(b) Doglike features 
in the clouds over 
Washington, DC, 
enhanced by Google’s 
DeepDream algorithm.

the rowdy shapes of beasts and demigods doesn’t mean that anyone has ever 
suggested that the sky is infested with lumbering space- bears or interstellar 
scorpions. But the constellations do illustrate nicely that there is a limit to the 
number of objects the human mind can handle individually before it tends to 
impose an additional layer of abstraction. For most people it’s simply more 
convenient— one might even say more human— to view the night sky not as 
the disposition of several thousand stars but instead as the disposition of just 
several dozen constellations.

In general, when the number of distinct objects in a system is reduced 
from thousands to dozens, our minds can begin to develop a basic familiarity, 
identify structures, and examine how parts relate to the whole. We can even 

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   12 10/22/19   9:48 AM



TO E V ERY THING TH ER E I S A S E A SON 13

take those parts and craft that higher and most human layer of abstraction: 
a narrative story. As an extreme case, consider that nearly 10 percent of the 
night sky (plate 2) can be accounted for by retelling just one single legend, that 
of a hero (the constellation Perseus) who slays a monster feared for her demon 
eye (the star Algol) which could turn any living creature to stone. This hero 
then returns to rescue a beautiful princess (the constellation Andromeda) 

Figure 1.2: Real and Random Star Maps

a b

c d

e f

g h

Four of these maps depict famous constellations, and 
four show random dots. Can you tell which are which?

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   13 10/22/19   9:48 AM



14 A SCH EM E OF H E AV E N

chained to a rock by her parents (the constellations Cepheus and Cassiopeia) 
as a sacrifice to a giant sea monster (the constellation Cetus).

All the same, our propensity to group stars into constellations and con-
stellations into stories can hardly be said to derive from the actual arrange-
ment of the stars themselves. In fact, to a remarkable degree, the distribution 
of stars in the sky is completely random. Figure 1.2, for example, shows eight 
star maps, each depicting a roughly equal area of sky. Four snippets contain 
famous constellations and the other four show an alternate night where all 
the brightest stars of our sky have been repositioned entirely at random. Can 
you tell which four are real and which four are random? I’ll reveal the correct 
answers in the next section. 

KEEPING COUNT

For millennia, the stars have been our teachers in how to extract information 
from vast, unruly clumps of seemingly incoherent data. And if, as the stars 
have shown us, there are peculiarities in how our minds process quantities 
that are very large, or that exhibit randomness, this doesn’t mean that we’re 
unable to learn anything about systems that are large, or random, or both. 
Fortunately, our brains are capable of a trick or two that allows us to com-
pensate, at least somewhat, for our occasionally skewed first impressions of 
things. For the most part, these tricks rely on nothing more than our innate 
ability to count.

As an example of what can be learned simply through careful counting, 
take another look at figure 1.2. The four images depicting a genuine repre-
sentation of the night sky are b: Taurus and Auriga, d: Leo, e: Scorpius, and 
f: Cygnus. If you were brave enough to attempt to sort them, then your score, 
which is the number of star maps you correctly identified as being genuine, 
will be either 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4. For all but the most seasoned stargazers, however, 
it should be pretty tough to pick out all four legitimate maps. How tough? 
Well, your chances getting any given score just by guessing are presented in 
table 1.1.

SchemeOfHeaven_txt_final.indd   14 10/22/19   9:48 AM