A BOOK ON 


MATHEMATICAL 
ASTROLOGY 


Y.K. BANSAL 


Edited and Revised by 
K.R. Chari 


YO Teal 


HH Faraatereary AAMMAyeAHaA | 


aeporditerd at cet ah aed aH 


WaT yoraay aaa PTAA I 
yeas aa aay aa oe Te 
TSGSASMaHt Ad ay ATA | 
are atte aa, we oH ae 
fig-ard-geq-ary-faar-diatis Saat | 
Tae Four vit watts vey yearn 
qeder qeiey qetat weeae: | 
TSaaMN WHT Te st ae AAA 
cart FMT TS: Al GT AT TH: TSH 
wat Teatery wer Te: AT 
qars WAGE Had carayhiy | 
Sail WAST TATA zI 
up Pret frrrraay adelt areingary | 
waniay Aopray aaqe sarin 


@ 


Offering Prayers to the Lord Ganesha, 
Goddess Saraswati and the Nava Grahas 


Dear Students, 


1.1 We, the members of Bharatiya Prachya Evam 
Sanatan Vigyan Sansthan welcome you to the course for 
JYOTISHA PRAVEEN conducted by the Indian Council of 
Astrological Sciences (Regd.) Chennai, at 35 cities of India. 
Before we take you to the study of the subject namely 
"Mathematical Astrology’ through a series of specially 
designed course material to meet your requirements it is 
important to invoke the blessings of the Almighty God. 
Astrology, as you may be aware, is a divine science and 
therefore is very sacred. 

12 The beginning of any auspicious deed is always 
preceded by offering prayers to lord Ganesha, who is also 
the lord of intelligence: 

TH WTMnicdad Berg Ge AMERMTT | 
Aga wiles arereHret TT faeteat TTT | 
Gajaananam Bhootaganaadisewitam 
Kapittha Jamboo phala saarbhakshanam 
Umaasutam Shokavinaashakaaranam 
Namaami Vighneishwara Paadapankajam 


Which means : 

I prostrate before the lotus-feet of lord Vighneshwara, 
the offspring of Uma, the cause of destruction of sorrow, 
worshipped by bhootaganas (the five great elements of the 
universe viz. fire, earth, air, water and sky) etc., who has 


the face of a tusker and who consumes the essence of 
kapittha and jambu fruits. 

13 Next, we pray to Goddess Saraswati who is the 
Goddess of Learning: 


aah Rerat «fat ana aay) 
facet fagnenter fat ete warega i 


Saraswati Mahaabhaagey Vidye Kamala Lochcme, 
Vidyarupey Vishaalaakshi Vidyaam Dehi 
Namostute. 


Which means : 


Oh Goddess you are most lucky and full of knowledge, 
you have lotus like big and beautiful eyes. You are giver of 
knowledge. Oh goddess Saraswati I bow my head to Thee, 
please give me knowledge and vidya. 


WH According to sage Parashara, one of the most 
venerable exponents of astrology, Lord Vishnu incarnated 
himself as the nine planets (Nava Grahas) from the Sun to 
Ketu. These incarnations of Lord Vishnu are related to the 
nine planets as follows : 


1, The Sun - Shri Rama (belonging to the Solar 
Race, Surya Vansavali) 


2. Moon - Shri Krishna (belonging to the Lunar 
Race, Chandra Vansavali) 

3. Mars - Narasimha (Lion faced man) 

4. Mercury - The Buddha 

5. Jupiter - Vaamana (Dwarf) 

6. Venus - Parsu Rama (Holder of axe and son of 


the Sage Jamadagni) 


7. Saturn - Koorma (Tortoise) 


8. Rahu - Varaaha (Pig) 
9. Ketu - Matsya (Fish) 


We, therefore now pray to the aforesaid Nava-Grahas 
or the nine planets who are the different incarnations of 
Lord Vishnu, to bestow various effects on living beings 
according to their past Karma. 


maya Raga wag afr aera gaea 
Farge: wT wear Bry at AT BATT 
Brahmamuraari Tripuraantakaari, 

Bhaanu Shashi Bhumisuto Budhashcha! 
Gurushcha shukrah Shani Rahu Ketava, 
Kurvantu Sarve Mama Suprabhatam!! 


Which means : 


Oh! the creator Brahma, the preserver Vishnu, the 
destroyer Shankar (killer of demon Tripura Sur), the 
Sun (Surya), the Moon (Chandra), Mars (Mangal, 
son of earth), Mercury (Budh - Lord of wisdom), 
Jupiter (Brihaspati - Dev Guru), Venus (Shukra - 
Guru of demons, giver of worldly comforts), Saturn 
(Shani - son of Surya), Rahu and Ketu (Chhaya 
Grahas - nodes), I pray to you all to bestow your 
blessings upon me and make me the enlightened one. 


15 Having offered our humble prayers to Lord Ganesha 
(the lord of buddhi or intelligence), Goddess Saraswati (the 
Goddess ofall learnings and vaani or speech) and the nava 
Grahas (the nine planets who are the incarnations of lord 
Vishnu) for enlightenment through the study of this sacred 
and divine science, Astrology, we now proceed to study this 
all important part of Astrology viz mathematical Astrology. 
We have specially used the word ‘all-important’ for 


(iv) 


mathematical astrology as because the sage parashara (Para 
].4 Supra) himself in his great work Brihat parashara Hora 
Shastram (shloka 39-40, chapter 27 dealing with evaluation 
of strengths or the Spashtabalaadhaya) while discussing 
with his disciple Maitreya about the virtues and qualities of 
a good Astrologer, so as to be eligible to issue fruitful 
predictions, has stressed and emphasized the need to achieve 
skill and proficiency in the mathematical aspect of Astrology. 
The aforesaid shlokas are reproduced below as these are to 
be remembered and practised in action by all astrologers 
and students : 


arty wart a: greaqrest HAA: | 
sarang gery tafe frees: 1391 
PRINS-TT St UMEHeT AAT AAT: I 
AAT | ARIAT aa AeA ART A Aaa: 140n 


FEAT MAMTA”? 
Ganiteshu Praveeno Yeh Shabdashashtre Kritshramah 
Nyayavid Buddhimaan Deshdikkaalagyo Jitendriyah 
Uhapohapaturhoraskandha Shrawan Sammatah 
Maitreya ! Satyataam Yaati Tasya Vaakyam na 
Sanshayah. 


Which means : 


O Maitreya, the words of one who has achieved skill 
in mathematics, one who has put in industrious efforts 
in the branch of grammar, one who has knowledge 
of geography, space and time, one who has conquered 
his senses, one who is skilfully logical (in estimation) 
and one who is favourable to astrology, will doubtless 
be truthful. 
We will therefore advise our students to study each of 
these chapters carefully to acquire proficiency in 
Mathematical Astrology. 


(v) 


PREFACE 


The revised and improved edition is in your hands. The 
first edition was published in October 1993. The course 
material prepared by the Sansthan for the students of Astrology 
is well appreciated by teachers and students both. The work 
of author does not need any recommendations or foreword. 
The readers are the best judges and until now this book has 
been placed in top position. The aim of Sansthan is to make 
available books on Astrology and Occult Sciences authored 
by honest, learned and experienced teachers at lowest cost, to 
propagate the Indian heritage. A large number of Scientists, 
Doctors, Engineers, Professors, MBA's, CA's etc have learnt 
astrology with the help of the books published by Sansthan. 
Sansthan has received many letters of appreciation, but do 
not want to publish them in any book which may unnecessarily 
increase the cost of the books. While reading these books the 
teachers get clarifications of doubts, the students feel the 
pleasure of getting oral teachings and understand the meanings 
of astrological sutras very easily. Sansthan is grateful to Shri 
MLN. Kedar for preparing the revised edition of this book 
again. 

Sansthan cannot forget to thank Shn K.R. Chari, a top 
most faculty of ICAS who has taken the pains to do technical 
editing of the book. 

Sansthan 


CONTENTS 


Prayer to Ganesh, Goddess Saraswati and the 


Nav Graha ()-(iv) 
Preface (v) 
Chapter 1 


Astrological terminology I 

Solar System, The earth, Equator, North & South 

Hemisphere, Geographical longitude and Latitude 
1-15 

Chapter 2 

Astrological Terminology II 


Celestial Sphere, Celestial Poles, Celestial Equator, 
Ecliptic, Zodiac, Celestial Longitude, Celestial 
Latitude, Declination, Right Ascension, Oblique 
Ascension 17-23 
Chapter 3 

Astronomical Terminology II 

Equinoctial points, Precession of Equinoxes, Movable 
& fixed Zodiac, Ayanamsha, Sayana & Nirayana 
System, Determination of Approximate Ayanamsha, 
signs, Table of signs, their extent and lords of signs, 
nakshatras, Ascendant, Tenth house (MC), Table of 
Ascendants and their longitudes and lords, Tables of 
houses and Ephemeris, Table TV (Corr. for Hours and 
Mts.) 25-33 
Chapter 4 

Time Measure 


Sidereal day, Sidereal year, Apparent Solar day, Mean 
Solar day, Months, Lunar Month, Solar Month, Years, 
Tropical Year, Anomalistic year. 35-38 


11. 


Chapter 5 
Time Differences 


Local time, Standard time, Greenwich Mean time, 
Conversion of time, Time Zone, LMT Correction, 
Example 5, 6 and 7 with calculations 39-50 


Chapter 6 
Sidereal Time 


Necessity to have the Sidereal time system, Sidereal 
Time of a given moment. 51-59 


Chapter 7 
Sunrise and Sunset 


Sunrise, Sunset, Apparent Noon, Ahas & Ratri, 
Calculation of Time of Sunrise & Sunset. Calculation 
of time of Sunrise and Sunset by method of 
interpolation 61-65 


Chapter 8 
Casting of Horoscope I 


Forms of horoscope. Modern and Traditional 
Method of casting Horoscope. Example 1, 2 67-74 


Chapter 9 
Casting of Horoscope II 


Calculation of Ascendant for places situated in 
Southern Hemisphere, Example | and 2 75-79 


Chapter 10 

Casting of Horoscope III 

(Modern Method) 

Graha Spasta/Longitudes of planets 81-89 
Chapter 11 

Casting of Horoscope IV 

Using Condensed Ephemeris 1941-1981. 91-96 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 
20. 


Chapter 12 

Casting of Horoscope V 

Condensed Ephemeris 1900-1941 97-101 
Chapter 13 

Casting of Horoscope VI (Modern Method) 


Vimshottari Dasha System, Janma Rashi, Janma 
Nakshatra, Basis for Vimshottari Dasha System. 
Calculation of Vimshottari Dasha Balance at 


Birth 103-107 
Chapter 14 

Casting of Horoscope VII 

Major and sub-periods, Vimshottari Dasha, 

Antar Dasha 109-112 
Chapter 15 


Casting of Horoscope VIII 

Traditional Method, Rashiman, Calculation of lagna 
at Delhi, Calculation of planetary position (Longitudes 
of planets), Calculation of Dasha Balance 113-119 


Chapter 16 

Bhavas 

Bhavas X Cusp, MC etc. 121-130 
Chapter 17 

Shadvargas, Method of Preparation of Divisional 
Charts 131-138 
Chapter 18 

Refreshers, Calculation of Ascandant and Planetary 
Positions 139-147 
Saptavarga Calculation 148-150 
Index 151-153 


CHAPTER 1 
ASTROLOGICAL TERMINOLOGY I 


1.1 Under this topic 'Astrological Terminology’ we 
propose to discuss and acquaint our students with various 
terms and their meaning, definition, etc. commonly used in 
astrology, particularly those used in mathematical Astrology. 
In addition, certain astronomical terminology will also be 
discussed in these lessons, to the extent these are used in 
mathematical astrology. A more detailed exposition of these 
astronomical terminology is available to the students in the 
book ‘Astronomy Relevant to Astrology' by V.P. Jain. 


12 The various terminology with which the students 

are expected to be familiar are as follows : 
1. The solar system. 

The earth 
The equator of the earth 
Northern hemisphere, and Southern hemisphere. 
Geographical longitudes (Rekhansha) 
Geographical latitudes (Akshansha) 


NQ2wER YW 


Meridian of Greenwich as reference point at the 
earth's equator 


8. Celestial sphere or the cosmic sphere 
9. Celestial poles 

10. Celestial Equator 

Il. Ecliptic or the Ravi Marga 


0) 


2 Mathematical Astrology 


12. Zodiac 

13. Celestial longitude (Sphuta) 

14. Celestial latitude (Vikshepa) 

15. Declination (Kranti) 

16. Right ascension (Dhruva) 

17. Oblique ascension or Rashimaan 
18. Equinoctial points 

19. Precession of the equinoxes and Ayanamsha 
20. Moveable and fixed zodiacs 

21. The Say ana and Nirayana system 
22. The Table of Ascendants 

23. The Table of Houses 

24. The Ephemeris 


13 We will now take the above mentioned terms and 
discuss these one by one so as to make these terms clear to 
the students. lt may however be mentioned here that a large 
number of the above mentioned terms are quite simple and 
self explanatory. Most of the students, particularly those 
who have studied geography as a subject during their school 
education, would be familiar with the terms mentioned 
above. Nevertheless we will discuss and explain all the 
above mentioned terms in a systematic manner so that the 
very concept of these terms is understood by the students. 


14 The Solar System 

Our Solar System is centered round the Sun. Nine 
planets viz. Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn, Uranus (or Herschel), Neptune and Pluto 


Mathematical Astrology 3 


alongwith belt of Asteroids revolves in elliptical orbits 
around the Sun. 


In Hindu Astrology, the last three planet /. e. Uranus (or 
Herschel), Neptune and Pluto have no place. On the other 
hand the classical Hindu Astrology recognises the Moon 
and the two shadowy planets i.e. Rahu and Ketu (or the 
Moon's Nodes) as equivalent to planets. Rahu and Ketn 
are not physical bodies but are mathematically calculated 
sensitive points of intersection of the orbits of the Moon 
and the Sun (or in fact that of the Earth but which appears 
to be that of the Sun). 


14.1 The planets Mercury and Venus are situated in 
the space between the Sun and the Earth. These planets are 
therefore known as ‘Inner Planets'. These are also known 


as 'Inferior Planets'. 
SOLAR SYSTEM 


TE i et oar ce i ere ete a PLUTO NEPTUNE 
ae ie me URANUS pets td meee 
“oe mm ~~ em 
a Jenn ~ 
7 me eee im ie - 
“~— me ee 
ae £25. mee br eee 
Pee la heres “am 
meme mee 
a eae “e “A 
PO eas SS eee 
SA ~ JUPITER a 
eee es MARS ig < yy 
“ Bre s SATURN 
2 ES aeons bee \ N 
~ \ ‘ 
sem . ne \ 
“i - 
o pate ‘ » gantticy 1 \ 
. \ 
‘ \ l ‘ 
\ ' | 
SUN mercury O Qvenug \ 
a ae; ' , 
7 / \ 
¢ 4 / f , 
Figure 1 


1.4.2 The other three planets namely Mars, Jupiter and 
Satur are so situated in the space that their orbits are on 


4 Mathematical Astrology 


the outer side of the Earth. These Planets are therefore known 
as 'Onter Planets' or 'Snperior Planets'. 


1.5 The Earth 


The Earth is ever spinning on its axis. In addition to its 
spinning, the earth is also revolving round the Sun. It is 
therefore always in a state of motion in the space at a speed 
of nearly 30 kms per second or 1,800 kms a minute or 
9,46,08,000 kms per year. 


1.5.1 In early times, the earth was believed to be the 
centre of universe of our solar system. It was thought that 
the Sun, the Moon and other planets (stars) actually revolved 
around the earth, as they appear to do. But now we know 
that the earth is a globe, that it rotates or spins on its axis 
and the Sun and stars appear to revolve around it from 
east to west, because the earth is revolving around its 
axis from west to east. This phenomenon can be best 
explained with the example of a moving train. When we 
look outside the window from a running train, the trees at 
a distance or the telephone poles, electric posts and other 
similar objects appear to be moving in the opposite direction 
to that of the train. which actually is not correct. We know 
that the trees, the telephone poles, the electric posts etc., all 
are fixed at a place. Similarly living on the earth's surface, 
we also keep on moving in the space with the same speed 
as that of the earth. The Sun which is actually stationary 
would appear to us to be moving in the opposite direction 
to that of the earth. As the earth is moving from west to 
east, the Sun and other stars in the space will appear to be 
moving in the opposite direction i.e. from east to west. This 
is what we actually observe also. 


Mathematical Astrology 5 


15.2 The axis of the Earth slants at an angle of about 
23/4° from the perpendicular to the plane of its orbit. If the 
plane of orbit of earth is treated as horizontal, then 
perpendicular to this line will be known as vertical and then 
the axis of earth can be stated to be slanting at an angle of 
about 23 ‘4° (23 degrees 28 minutes to be precise) to the 
vertical. North Pole N 

(Northern End) 
Axis of 
The Earth 


Plane of 
Earth's Orbit 


$ South Pole 
| (Southern End) 
Figure 2 

The axis of the earth is so inclined that the northern 
end of the axis always points to the Pole Star or 
commonly known as Dihruv Tara. Where the northern and 
southern end of the axis of earth meet the surface of the 
earth, those points are known as North and South Poles of 
the earth, respectively. 


16 The Equator of the Earth 


If we draw a plane passing through the centre of the 
earth and perpendicular to the earth's axis, it will cut the 
surface of the earth in a circle. This great circle on the 
surface of the earth is known as the Earth's Equator or 
Terrestrial Equator. 


6 Mathematical Astrology 


CENTRE.OF THE EARTH N EARTH'S SURFACE 


IMAGINARY PLANE 
PASSING THROUGH 
THE CENTRE OF 
THE EARTH ANO 
PERPENDICULAR 


TO EARTH'S AXIS 
EARTH'S EQUATOR 


Figure 3 


1.7 Northern and Southern Hemisphere 


We know that the globe of the earth is not a perfect 
sphere like a ball. In fact the earth's diameter along the 
equator is larger than its diameter along the axis due to the 
fact that the earth is slightly flattened at the poles whereas 
it is slightly bulging out at the equator. The shape of the 
Earth is comparatively more similar to that of an orange or 
a melon rather than that of a perfect sphere. Even then, for 
easy comprehension/calculations and understanding the 
various phenomenon, we consider the earth's globe to be a 
perfect sphere, though it is actually not so. In Para 16 
above we have seen that the imaginary plane cuts the earth's 
surface in a great circle known as earth's equator. However, 
if the same plane was to cut the earth's globe (or the sphere) 
into two parts, each part will be exactly half of the sphere 
and will therefore be known as the Hemisphere. The 
hemisphere towards the North end of the axis of the earth 
is known as Northern Hemisphere. Similarly the hemisphere 


Mathematical Astrology 7 


towards the south end of the axis of the earth is known as 
Southern Hemisphere. Figure 4 illustrates the above 
phenomenon clearly wherein the two halves of the earth's 
globe have been shown separated at the plane of the earth's 
equator. 


NORTHERN 
HEMISPHERE 


AXIS OF 
THE EARTH 


SOUTHERN 
HEMISPHERE 


Figure 4 


18 Geographical Longitudes (Rekhansha) 
And Geographical Latitudes (AAshansha) 

In order to fix the position of an object or a point on 
a plane, we have to divide the plane by drawing two sets of 
parallel lines at equal intervals perpendicular to each other. 
A graph paper which all of us would have used in our 
school days, is a good example to understand this 
phenomenon. In the adjacent figure 5 we have two sets of 
parallel lines which are at equal intervals and at the same 
time are perpendicular to each other, i.e. to say that all lines 
in N-S direction are perpendicular to all the Lines in W-E 
direction. Similarly all lines in W-E direction are parallel to 


8 Mathematical Astrology 


each other but perpendicular to the lines in N-S direction. 

With the help of these equidistant parallel and perpendicular 

lines, we can correctly find the coordinates of any given 

point viz. A, B, C or D with reference to any given point 

of reference (say ‘O*), For example: 

For 'A' we can say 7 units in E direction and 7 units inN 
direction. 

For 'B' we can say 6 units in W direction and 5 units in 
N direction. 

For 'C we can say 8 units in W direction and 8 units in 
S direction. 

and similarly 

For 'D' we can say 4 units in E direction and 5 units in S 


direction. 


Figure 5 


Alternatively, if the coordinates of any point are known, 
we can locate the point exactly on the plane by counting the 
number of units indicated by the coordinates, in the 


Mathematical Astrology 9 


appropriate direction. The same concept is applied to the 
earth's surface also with slight modifications as the surface 
of the earth is not a perfect plane but is having curvature, 
the earth's globe being a sphere for all practical purposes. 


1.8.1 The surface of the earth's sphere is imagined to 
be cut by several planes each one of them passing through 
the centre of the earth and perpendicular to the plane of 
Earth's equator. These planes will describe imaginary circles 
on the surface of the earth so that each one of these imaginary 
circles will be passing through the North as well as the 
South pole of the earth and will have the same centre as 
that of the earth. The distance measured along the surface 
of the earth between any two such consecutive circles will 
be zero at both the poles (as all the circles will be passing 
through the poles) and will be maximum at the equator. 
These circles are known as the 'Meridians of Longitude’. 
These have been explained in the figure 6. 


MERIDIANS OF N _,NORTH POLE 
LONGITUDE “ 


S 


Figure 6 


10 Mathematical Astrology 


182 Again let us imagine the surface of the earth to 
be cut by imaginary planes which are all parallel to the 
plane of earth's equator. These planes will also describe 
circles on the surface of the earth and the centres of all such 
circles will be falling on the axis of the earth and each one 
of these circles will be parallel to each other as well as 
parallel to the earth's equator. These circles are known as 
parallels of Latitude. These have been explained in the 
figure 7. 


It may be seen from the figure that all these circles 
(parallel of latitudes) have their centres on the axis of the 
earth just like equator also has its centre on the axis of the 
earth. These are shown as O, 01, 02 and so on upto 06 in 
the figure. 


1.8.3 Students will recall that the 'meridians of 
longitudes’ are nothing but concentric circles on the surface 
of the earth whose planes are all perpendicular to the plane 
of equator. Similarly, the ‘parallels of latitudes’ are again 
circles on the earth's surface but with their planes parallel 
to the plane of earth's equator. It is therefore self evident 
that at any given point on the surface of earth, the meridian 
of longitude and the parallel of latitude will be mutually 
perpendicular to each other and will therefore intersect each 
other at right angles or 90°. 


1.8.4 Students are advised to re-read Para 18.1 to 183 
above so that the application of the concept of 2 sets of 
equidistant parallel lines, each set being mutually 
perpendicular to the other set (Para 1.8) could be properly 
understood by them to locate or identify any place or city 
on the surface of the earth. 


Mathematical Astrology ‘ 11 


PARALLELS OF 
LATITUDES 


EARTH'S a 
EQUATOR 


PARALLELS OF 
s LATITUDES 


Figure 7 


185 We have already seen that the earth's equator is 
a circle. As any circle comprises of 360° of are so the earth's 
equator will also have 360°. For easy comprehension, we 
may imagine that there are 180 numbers of concentric circles 
drawn on the surface of earth in such a way that their planes 
are perpendicular to the plane of earth's equator. These 180 
circles will describe 360 lines on the surface of earth (each 
circle will give two lines i.e. one in the front and the other 
at the back) which as we already know (Para 1.8.1) are 
known as meridians of longitudes. Each of these 360 
meridians of longitude will pass from both the poles of the 
earth and at equator will be 1° apart. The distance between 
any two consecutive lines measured along the surface of 
earth will be maximum at earth's equator which will go on 
decreasing as we proceed along these lines either towards 
North Pole or towards the South Pole where it will 
become 'Zero’. 


12 Mathematical Astrology 


1.8.6 We may also consider for easy comprehension 
that the circles which are known as the Parallels of Latitude 
are also 180 in numbers i.e. 90 circles in the Northern 
Hemisphere and the remaining 90 circles in the Southem 
Hemisphere so that the angular distance (angle subtended at 
the centre of earth) between any two consecutive circle is 
1° again as in the case of Meridians of the longitudes. We 
will therefore, have a set of parallel lines at 1° angular 
distance apart running from E to W or W to E around the 
earth's globe all of which will be perpendicular to the 
Meridians of longitude (para 1.8.3). 


18.7 We can now super-impose the figures 6 and 7 
and see that the new figure formed by merging or super- 
imposing the two figures will have a graph like appearance 
drawn on the surface of the earth which by and large will 
be somewhat similar to figure 5. The only exception will be 
that the lines in N-S direction or the Meridians of longitudes 
will not be exactly parallel to each other in the true sense. 
However as the students may be aware that earth's globe 
has a circumference of about 40,232 kms or 25,000 miles 
(approx.), the space of earth's surface covered beween two 
consecutive lines of 1° angular distance in N-S as well as 
E-W directions will be roughly of the order of 110 kms x 
110 kms or 69 miles x 69 miles. Hence we may consider 
them to be parallel for the place or city under consideration. 


Mathematical Astrology 13 


MERIDIANS OF 
LONGITUDES PARALLELS 
OF 
LATITUDES 
EARTH'S 
EQUATOR 


Figure 8 

188 From the figure 8 above though it is clear that 
the Meridians of longitudes are never exactly parallel in the 
strict sense, but as explained in para 1.8.7 for the limited 
spaces marked as 'A', 'B', and 'C on the earth's surface 
these meridians (shown by dotted arrows in the figure) are 
considered as parallel. Therefore the conditions of figure 5 
in para 18 above are considered to have been fulfilled. 


189 Having drawn 2 sets of parallel lines at equal 
distance which are mutually perpendicular also, we are now 
set to locate any place on the surface of earth. We now only 
need to know its coordinates from a given reference point. 
In the context of earth's globe these coordinates are known 
as ‘geographical longitudes' which are measured along the 
earth's equator either towards ‘East’ or 'West' from the 
reference point/line. The other coordinate being the 
geographical latitudes which are measured in perpendicular 
direction from earth's equator either towards 'North' or 
‘South’ from the reference point or line. For the purpose of 


14 Mathematical Astrology 


longitudes, the reference line or the reference meridian 
has been chosen as the meridian passing through 
Greenwich near London. This meridian i.e. the meridian 
passing through Greenwich is considered as 0° longitude 
and the longitudes of all other places on earth is 
measured with reference to this meridian only either 
towards East or towards West. Hence all places, cities 
etc. on the surface of earth are located within either 0° to 
180°E longitude or 0° to 180°W longitude. Similarly for the 
purposes of latitudes the reference line or parallel of 
latitude is the equator itself. The latitudes of all places, 
cities etc. situated on the surface of the earth are 
measured from the equator whose latitude is 0°, either 
towards North or South depending on whether the place 
is in Northern or Southern Hemisphere. Hence the 
latitudes vary from 0° to 90°N for places in Northern 
Hemisphere and from 0° to 90°S for places situated in 
Southem Hemisphere. Thus the point of intersection of 0° 
longitude i.e. the Meridian of Greenwich with the Earth's 
Equator is considered as the reference point ‘O’ shown in 
fig. 5. 


1.8.10 Students would have seen that the explanation 
for Geographical longitudes and latitudes have been dealt 
with in much greater detail and is quite exhaustive in its 
content. If the phenomenon is clear with reference to the 
earth's globe, students will find it easy to understand when 
the same is applied to the space and the planets, which is 
our primary concern while talking about the Astrology. 


Mathematical Astrology 15 


EXERCISE - 1 


Question 1 : Write short notes on : 
(a) Terrestrial Equator (b) Meridians of longitudes 


(c) Northern and Southern (d) Parallels of latitudes 
Hemisphere 


Question 2 : Describe briefly our solar system 
indicating the inner and outer planets. 


Question 3 : Find out with the help of an Atlas, the 
Geographical longitudes and latitudes of the places given 
below : 


(a) Allahabad (b) Anantnag (c) Kolkata 
(d) Bangkok (e) Vatican city (f) Sitka 
(g) Yokohama = (h) Iceland (k) Hanoi 
() Kanazawa  (m)Mokameh (n) Manila 


CHAPTER 2 
ASTROLOGICAL TERMINOLOGY II 


2,1 In the previous chapter we have seen how to locate 
or define a place on the earth's surface. We will now apply 
similar principles to the space and see how to locate or define 
the position of various planets situated in-the space. For this 
purpose, we will have to imagine that the entire space around 
our planet earth is a huge sphere with infinite diameter which 
extends far beyond the farthest of the planets with which we 
are concerned in Astrology. So living on this planet earth, the 
other planets in the space including the Sun and the Moon 
would appear to us to be situated on the imaginary surface of 
this imaginary sphere. 

2.2 Celestial Sphere or the Cosmic Sphere 


The imaginary sphere in the space surrounding our entire 
Solar system, mentioned in Para 2.1 above, is known as the 
celestial sphere or the cosmic sphere. 


23 Celestial Poles 


If the Earth's axis is extended infinitely towards North 
and South, it will meet the imaginary surface of the cosmic 
sphere or the celestial sphere at some point. These points on 
the surface of cosmic sphere are known as the Celestial Poles 
and the extended axis becomes the imaginary axis of the 
celestial sphere. 


2.4 Celestial Equator 


The projection of earth's equator or the terrestrial 
equator on the imaginary surface of the celestial sphere is 
known as the Celestial Equator. 


(17) 


18 Mathematical Astrology 


2.4.1 As the earth's equator divides the earth's globe into 
two halves, similarly the celestial equator divides celestial or 
cosmic sphere into two equal halves or hemispheres. These 
are known as Northern celestial hemisphere and the Southern 
celestial hemisphere. 


2.5 Ecliptic (Ravi Marg) 


The apparent path in the space along which the Sun 
seems to move around the earth is known as Ecliptic. This 
is also known as Ravi Marg. The Ecliptic or the Ravi Marg, 
like the orbits of other planets is not a circle but is elliptical 
or oval in shape. Ecliptic can also be defined as a projection 
of Earth's orbit around the Sun on to the surface of cosmic 
sphere. The plane of Ecliptic is inclined to the plane of 
celestial equator at an angle of about 234° due to the slant/ 
inclination of the earth's axis to the vertical. Figure 9 given 
below will clarify the position. 


N. POLE OF 
N. POLE OF 
THEECUPTIC —-'N___ CELESTIAL 


CELESTIAL ECLIPTIC OR 
SPHERE RAVI MARG 
CELESTIAL 

EQUATOR 


PLANE OF 
ECLIPTIC 

PLANE OF 7 
CELESTIAL 
EQUATOR 


erg s S. POLE OF 
Serene THE ECLIPTIC 


Figure 9 


Mathematical Astrology 19 


2.6 Zodiac 


If one observes the movement of planets, it is seen that 
they also move in their own orbits along with the Sun's path, 
but their path deflects north-south also. However the planets 
never proceed more than 9° either north or south of the ecliptic. 
Hence if a parallel line on either side of the ecliptic is drawn 
at an angular distance of about 9° then the ecliptic will come 
in the middle and either side will be a broad band/path way in 
which all planets can be located. This imaginary belt/band 
stretching about 9° north and 9° south of the ecliptic within 
which the planets and the Moon remain in course of their 
movement in the heavens, is known as Zodiac. In astrology 
we refer to this broad band of 18° instead of referring to the 
entire sky. 


2.7 Celestial Longitude (Sphuta) 


This is the arc of the ecliptic intercepted between the 
first point of Aries (Nirayana) and a perpendicular arc to the 
ecliptic drawn through the body (planet) and the poles of the 
ecliptic. In other words it can also be defined as the angular 
distance of any heavenly body (viz. planets etc.) measured in 
degrees along the ecliptic, in one direction from the ongin 
(or the reference point - first point of Aries of the zodiacal 
sign or the Vernal Equinox). The first point of Aries is 
different in Sayana and Nirayana system. Students will recall 
that in the case of Geographical longitudes, the measurement 
was along the terrestrial equator and it was either towards 
east or west from the Greenwich or the reference point or 0° 
longitude so that the maximum longitude of any place on the 
surface of earth could be either 180°E or 180°W. However in 
the case of Zodiac or to say the celestial sphere, the 
measurement of celestial longitude of any planet is in one 
direction only from the origin or the reference point. As such 


20 Mathematical Astrology 


the celestial longitudes of various planets will be from 0° to 
360° and in this case there is nothing like measuring towards 
east or west. 


2.8 Celestial Latitude (Vikshepa) 


It is the angular distance across the celestial sphere 
measured north or south from the ecliptic along the great circle 
passing through the poles ofthe ecliptic and the object. 


29 Declination (Kranti) 


It is the angular distance on the celestial sphere north or 
south of the celestial equafbr. It is measured along the hour 
circle passing through the celestial object. 


2.10 Right Ascension (Dhruva) 


It is the angular distance on the celestial sphere measured 
eastward along the celestial equator from the vernal equinox 
to the hour circle passing through the celestial object. 


2.11 It is considered necessary here to clarify the position 
to the students with regard to Para 2.7 to 2.{0 above. While 
dealing with places on the surface of the earth we had only 
one system of coordinates viz. geographical longitudes in East- 
West direction and geographical latitudes in North-South 
direction. However in the case of heavenly bodies like planets 
etc., we have two different systems of coordinates. The first 
system of coordinates i.e. celestial longitudes and latitudes is 
normally followed by the Astrologers where as the other 
system i.e. Right Ascension and Declination is followed by 
the Astronomers.-Inspite of there being two systems, the 
methodology adopted is by and large the same as is applicable 
to geographical longitudes and latitudes except that in the 
two systems mentioned above in context of celestial sphere 
the measurements along the Ecliptic as well as the celestial 
equator are unidirectional unlike towards east or west in the 
case of earth's equator. 


Mathematical Astrology 21 


2.12 Secondly in the first system which is followed by 
the Astrologers (celestial longitudes and celestial latitudes) 
the measurements are along and perpendicular to the Ecliptic 
whereas in the second system adopted by Astronomers i.e. 
Right Ascension and declination, the measurements are along 
and perpendicular to the celestial equator. The figure given 
below will make the point clear to the students. 


COSMIC OR 
CELESTIAL 
SPHERE 


3 ei 
Figure 10 
Students may plese see the figure 10 carefully. It depicts 
a cosmic sphere or a celestial sphere on the surface of which 
a heavenly body e.g. Planet 'P' is situated. The other 
constituents of the figure are : 


(a) WOE Celestial equator 

(b) W,OE: Ecliptic 

(c) N and $ North and South poles of the 
celestial sphere or of the celestial 
equator. 

(d) N. and S. North and South Pokes of the 


Ecliptic. 


22 


(e) NPP,S 


() N,PP,S 


(g) OP, 


(A) PP, 


(i) OP, 


Gj) PP, 


Mathematical Astrology 


One side of the great circle (or the 
hour circle or circle of declination) 
passing through the planet P, and 
Poles N and S, perpendicular to the 
celestial equator and intersecting 
it at point P, 

One side of the great circle passing 
through the Planet P Poles N, and 
S, of the Ecliptic and 
perpendicular to it (Ecliptic) and 
intersecting the ecliptic at P,. 


is the angular distance measured 
along the ecliptic or we can call 
this as celestial longitude of planet 
P. 


is the angular distance measured 
perpendicular to the ecliptic. It is 
the celestial latitude of Planet P. 
As P is situated above the ecliptic 
in the Northern hemisphere the 
celestial latitude will be North. 


it is the angular distance measured 
along the celestial equator. It is 
therefore right ascension of planet 
P. 


It is the angular distance measured 
perpendicular to the celestial 
equator. It is therefore declination 
of Planet P. As the planet P is 
situated in the northern 
hemisphere, the declination of the 
planet will be North. 


Mathematical Astrology 23 


2.13 Oblique Ascension (Rashimaan) 

Rashimaan means the rising periods of each of the 
twelve rashis or signs of the Zodiac. It is the time required/ 
taken by each Rashi to rise completely through its 30 
degrees on the eastern horizon of any place on earth. The 
Rashimaans vary from Akshamsha to Akshamsha. These 
are always given in Say ana system i.e. to say that the time 
of oblique ascension is computed for the signs of moveable 
Zodiac. For the present students may remember the definition 
only. We will revert back to the subject when dealing with the 
traditional method of casting the horoscope. 


EXERCISE - 2 


Question 1 : Define : 
(a) Celestial sphere 
(b) Celestial poles 
(c) Celestial equator 
(d) Ecliptic 
Question 2 : Explain with the help of diagrams : 
(a) Celestial longitude 
(b) Celestial latitude 
(c) Right Ascension 
(d) Declination 
Also indicate their Hindu names. 


Question 3 : Write a short note indicating in what way 
the measurement of coordinates of places on earth's globe 
differ from the measurement of coordinates for a heavenly 
body situated on the surface of cosmic sphere. 


Question 4 : How many types of systems for 
measurements of coordinates of a heavenly body are you 
aware? Describe them with the help of diagrams. 


CHAPTER 3 
ASTROLOGICAL TERMINOLOGY II 


3.1 Equinoctial Points 

In the celestial sphere the ecliptic intersects the equator 
at two points because the Sun crosses the celestial equator 
twice a year. These two points are known as Equinoctial points 
or Equinoxes, because when Sun is at either of these two 
points, the duration of day and night on earth will be equal. 


3.1.1 When the Sun crosses the celestial equator on its 
way from southern hemisphere to northern hemisphere that 
equinoctial point is known as the Spring or Vernal Equinox. 
At that time the 'Sayana' longitude of the Sun is 0°. Similarly 
when the Sun, continuing its sojourn of the heavens again 
crosses the celestial Equator on its way from northern 
hemisphere to southern hemisphere, that Equinoctial point is 
known as Autumnal Equinox. At that moment the Sayana 
longitude of the Sun is 180°. Now-a-days the Sun is at Vernal 
Equinox on or around 21 st March and at Autumnal Equinox 
on 23rd September, each year. 


3.2 Precession of the Equinoxes 


It has been observed and can be proved mathematically 
that the Vernal Equinox or the first point of Aries from where 
the longitudes (Sayana or Tropical) of all the planets are 
measured along the ecliptic is not a fixed point. Each year 
when the Sun reaches the Vernal Equinox, the position of 
earth with reference to some fixed star shifts by 50 4" of arc 


(25) 


26 Mathematical Astrology 


westwards compared to position at equinoctial moment of 
the previous year. Therefore the Vernal Equinox (VE.) point 
is receding back along the ecliptic at the rate of about 50 4" 
per year. This slight retrograde motion of the equinoxes is 
known as the precession of the equinoxes. 


3.3 Moveable and fixed Zodiacs 


Due to precession of equinoxes, the V.E. slips backwards 
from its original position (recognised as star Revati by the 
Hindus). The Zodiac which reckons the first degree of Aries 
(Mesha) from the VE. (which has a precession every year) is 
known as the Moveable Zodiac, while in the case of the Fixed 
Zodiac, the first degree of Aries (Mesha) is reckoned from a 
particular star in the Revati group of stars, which is fixed. 


3.4 Ayanamsha 


The angular distance measured along the Ecliptic, 
between the first point from where the fixed Zodiac 
commences and the V.E. point, at an Epoch is known as 
Ayanamsha. The exact period when the point of beginning of 
both the Zodiacs i.e. the Moveable Zodiac and the Fixed 
Zodiac coincided, is not known. Accordingly the Ayanamsha 
or the precessional distance varies from 19° to 24°. A number 
of dates are given as the year of coincidence. However, we 
follow the year as given by N.C. Lahiri in his Ephemeries i. e. 
285 A.D. which is same as adopted by the astronomical 
observatories all over India. 


3.5 The Sayana and Nirayana Systems 


The system of Astronomy which recognises the 
Moveable Zodiac, belongs to Sayana school while that which 
considers the fixed zodiac is termed as the Nirayana system. 
The Sayana system is used by the western astrologers where 
as the Hindu Astrologers use the Nirayana system. There are 


Mathematical Astrology 27 


different names prevalent for the two types of Zodiacs which 
are as follows : 
(a) | Moveable Zodiac is also known as Tropical Zodiac, 
Sayana Zodiac and the Zodiac of Signs. 
(b) Fixed Zodiac is also known as Sidereal Zodiac, 
Nirayana Zodiac and the Zodiac of Constellations. 
3.6 Determination of Approximate Ayanamsha 
Though we must always use the Ayanamsha for any 
Epoch as given in the Ephemeries of N.C. Lahiri, we can 
roughly work out the value of Ayanamsha by following the 
method given below : 
(a) — Subtract 285 from the year of the birth or 
the given year (A.D.) 
(b) Multiply the remainder by 50 4" and reduce the 
product into degrees, minutes and seconds. 
Example : Ayanamsha for the year 2011 can be worked 
out as follows : 
2011-285 = 1726 
Multiply by’50 4" = 1726 x 50 ¥% = 86875.33" 
Approximate Ayanamsha = 24°-7'-55,.33" 
3.7 Sign 
The zodiac consists of 360 degrees. This is divided into 
12 equal sectors each of 30° and each sector is called a'Sign' 


or a ‘Rashi’. The twelve signs/rashis of the zodiac their Names, 
Lords, etc. are as follows: 


28 


Zz 
° 


—_ — 


SO! 209.5 SST SOs Se SN 


Mathematical Astrology 


. Sign Rashi Extent — Lord ofsign 

. ARIES MESHA 0° to 30° MARS 
TAURUS VRISHA 30° to 60° VENUS 
GEMINI MITHUNA 60° to 90° ~MERCURY 
CANCER KARKA 90° to 120° MOON 
LEO SIMHA 120° to 150° SUN 
VIRGO KANYA 150° to 180° MERCURY 
LIBRA TULA 180° to 210° VENUS 
SCORPIO VRISCHIKA 210° to 240° MARS 
SAGITTARIUS DHANU 240° to 270° JUPITER 
CAPRICORN MAKARA — 270° to 300° SATURN 

. AQUARIUS KUMBHA = 300° to 330° SATURN 

. PISCES MEENA 330° to 360° JUPITER 


3.8 Nakshatras or Stars/Constellations 


The Hindus have yet another division ofthe Zodiac. In 
this system the entire zodiac is divided into 27 equal parts of 
13°20' each. These divisions are called Nakshatras or Stars or 


Constellations or Asterisms. Their names, extension in the 


zodiac, their lords etc. are as follows : 


S.No. 


Name of Extent 
Nakshatra/ (Longitude) 
Star 

Ashwini 0° to 13°20' 
Bharani —_ 13°20" to 26°40" 
Krittika 26°40! to 40° 
Rohini 40° to 53°20' 


Mrigashira 53°20' to 66°40' 


Extent 
Sign/Rashi 


Mesha 0° to 
Mesha 13°20° 
Mesha 13°20' to 
Mesha 26°40! 
Mesha 26°40! to 
Vrisha 10° 
Vrisha 10° to 
Vrisha 23°20' 
Vrisha 23°20" lo 
Mithuna 6°40" 


Lord of No, of 

Nakshatra/ years in 
Constellations Vimshottari 

Dasha 
KETU 7 
VENUS 20 
SUN 6 
MOON 10 
MARS 7 


Mathematical Astrology 


S.No, 


21. 


22. 


Name of 
Nakshatra/ 
Star 


Ardra 
Punarvasu 
Pushya 


Ashlesha 


Magha 
Poorva 
Phalguni 
Uttra 


Phalguni 
Hasta 
Chitra 


Swati 


Vishakha 


. Anuradha 


. Jyeshtha 


. Moola 


. Poorvashadha 


Uttrashadha 


Shravana 


Extent 
(Longitude) 
66°40' to 80° 
80° to 93°20' 
93°20' to 106°40' 


106°40' to 120° 


120° to 133°20' 
133°20' to 146°40' 
146°40' to 160° 
160° to 173°20' 
173°20' to 186°40° 
186°40' to 200° 
200° to 213°20' 
213°20' to 226°40° 


226°40' to 240° 


240° to 253°20' 
253°20' to 266°40' 
266°40' to 280° 


280° to 293°20' 


29 
Extent Lord of No. of 
Sign/Rashi Nakshatra years in 
Vimshottari 
Dasha 
Mithuna 6°40'ta RAHU 18 
Mithuna 20° 
Mithuna 20° to JUPITER 16 
Karka 3°20! 
Karka 3°20' to SATURN 19 
Karka 16°40" 
Karka 16°40' to MERCURY 17 
Karka 30° or 
Simha 0° 
' TOTAL 120 
Simha 0° to KETU 7 
Simha [3°20' 
Simha 13°20' to VENUS 20 
Simha 26°40' 
Simha 26°40' to SUN 6 
Kanya 10° 
Kanya 10° to MOON 10 
Kanya 23°20’ 
Kanya 23°20' to MARS ‘3 
Tula 6°40' 
Tula 6°40' to RAHU 18 
Tula 20° 
Tula 20° to JUPITER 16 
Vishchika 3°20° 
Vrishchika 3°20' to SATURN 19 
Vrishchika 16°40’ 
Vrishchika 16°40" MERCURY 17 
to Vrishchika 30° 
or Dhanu 0° 
TOTAL 120 
Dhanu 0° to KETU 7 
Dhanu 13°20’ 
Dhanu 13°20'to VENUS 20 
Dhanu 26°40' 
Dhanu 26°40'to SUN 6 
Makara 10° 
Makara 10° to MOON 10 


Makara 23°20! 


30 Mathematical Astrology 


23. Dhanishtha 293°20' to 306°40' Makara 23°20'to MARS 7 
Kumbha 6°40' 
24. Shatabhisha 306°40! to 320° Kumbha 6°40'to =RAHU 18 
Kumbha 20° 
25. Poorva 320° to 333°20° Kumbha 20° to JUPITER 16 
Bhadra Meena 3°20' 
26. Uttra Bhadra 333°20' to 346°40' Meena 3°20' to SATURN 19 
Meena 16°40! 
27. Revati 346°40' to 360° Meena 16°40' to MERCURY 17 
Meena 30° (or 
Mesha 0°) 
TOTAL 120 


3.9 Ascendant or Lagna 


The ascendant or the lagna point is the point of 
intersection of the ecliptic at the given time with the horizon 
of the place. In astrology it is the first house of the horoscope. 
This point of intersection is very important as it is considered 
to be the commencing point of the horoscope. The earth rotates 
on its axis from West to East in about 24 hours. Due to this 
rotatory motion the whole sky (Zodiac) appears to come up 
from below the horizon gradually. The Ascendant or the Lagna 
is the 'Rising sign’ in the eastern horizon. The duration of 
each lagna is not equal like the rashi or the sign division. As 
all the 12 rashis or signs must rise one after the other in a day 
(due to rotation of earth on its axis once a day) each rashi/ 
sign becomes the lagna one after the other consecutively, with 
the passage of time. The names of the lagnas or the Ascendants 
are the same as that of the rashi/sign rising at any given time. 


3.10 The Tenth House or M.C. 


The point of intersection of the ecliptic with the meridian 
of the place, at any time, is the 'tenth house’ for that moment. 
It is also known as the Mid-heaven or Medium Coeli (M.C.) 
and also known as meridian, The longitude of this point is, as 
usual, measured along the ecliptic from the first point of Aries. 
The right ascension of the MC is the sidereal time of the 
moment which is often called R.A.M.C. 


Mathematical Astrology 31 


3.11 The Table of Ascendants 


This is a small book containing several tables for use in 
casting a horoscope. One such book commonly used by the 
students of astrology is by N.C. Lahiri. This gives the sidereal 
time at Noon for the central station of India or for the standard 
Meridian for India (longitude 82° 30°'E) for the year 1900 and 
for each day of the year. It also contains tables for correction 
to be applied for different years and different places so that 
we can find out the sidereal time for any day of any year for 
all the places on earth. Then this book gives the tables for the 
different Ascendants (the degree and sign of the ecliptic) rising 
for every 4 minutes interval of Sidereal Time for different 
latitudes on the earth (0° North to 60° North). Jn our lessons 
we will be making extensive use of this book. We shall 
therefore advise our students to purchase a copy of this book 
(Tables of Ascendants) for their use. 


3.12 The Table of Houses 


This also is a small book like Tables of Ascendants. This 
is available in Nirayana as well as Sayana systems. It gives 
the longitudes of the 10th, 11th, 12th, lst (Ascendant), 2nd 
and 3rd cusps (Midpoint of a house according to Hindu system 
and beginning of a house according to the western system of 
astrology) for different latitudes and sidereal time. With the 
help of this book one can directly note down the longitudes 
of the aforesaid six houses and by adding 180° or 6 signs to 
those longitudes, the longitudes of the remaining six houses 
i.e. 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9h can be found out. However 
since we follow the method of house divisions as given by 
sage Parashara, the tables of Ascendants mentioned in Para 
3.11 will meet the requirements and there would be no need 
to buy the Table of Houses. 


3.13 The Ephemeris 


This is nothing but a modern Panchang. It is available in 
book form. It tabulates the positions of celestial objects 


32 Mathematical Astrology 


(Planets etc.) in an orderly sequence for one complete year 
(for the current years). Condensed Ephemeris are available 
for the past years. In these lessons we shall be following the 
Indian ephemeris of N.C.Lahiri, published by Astro Research 
Bureau, Calcutta. Students are therefore advised to have with 
them complete set of these ephemeris. These are available in 
book form for the following years: 


1.1900 to 1941 6. 1981 to 1985 
2. 1941 to 1951 7. 1986to 1990 
3.1951 to 1961 8. 1991 to 1995 
4. 1961 to 1971 9. 1996 to 2000 
5. 1971 to 1981 10. 2001 to 2005 AD 


3.14 We have so far discussed about the Astrological 
Terminology commonly used in Mathematical Astrology. 
However in addition to the Terms discussed so far we will 
come across some more terms which will be discussed at the 
appropriate place, as we proceed further with our lessons. 


Table IV: Correction for Hours and Minutes 


The result obtained upto Table III (i.e., step 4 above in 
example 3 of para 6.3 is the sidereal time for 12 h noon local 
mean time ofthe place. The time interval of given moment 
from the above noon, increased by the following correction, 
is then to be applied to the above sidereal time for the given 
moment. When the moment of birth is after 12 noon, the 
increased time interval is to be added to and when it is before 
12 noon it is to be substracted from the sidereal time for the 
noon. If the total thus obtained exceeds 24 hrs, then 24 h should 
be substracted from it and where necessary 24 h may also be 
added to facilitate substraction. 


Mathematical Astrology 33 


Correction to Increase the Time Interval 


Ww 
to 
N 


| 


z 
0 


ul 
oO 
= 
| 
N 
ul 
x 
w 
a 


[=] 
wo 


| 
Hie 
bw 
to 
NTe 
o}leo 
a 
~ 


Oo 
Oo 
fee) 


i=) 
~ 
P= 
N 
Oo 
~ 


= 
le 
Pie 
Ww Ed 
wo 
EE 
Hie 
w 
No 
~ 
wo 
> 


a= 


Legend: h - hour, m - minutes, s - seconds. 
EXERCISE - 3 


Question 1 : What are the Equinoctial Points ? How 
many are these points ? Explain with the help of a diagram. 


Question 2 : Write short notes on : 


(a) Precession of Equinoxes (b) Moveable and Fixed 
zodiacs (c) Ayanamsha 


Question 3 : What do you understand by Sayana and 
Nirayana system ? 

Question 4 : What is the yearly rate of precession of 
VE. ? Work out the approximate Ayanamsha for the year 2003 
considering the year of coincidence as 285 AD as well as 397 
AD. 

Note : Students are advised to have with them the Book 
titled "A Manual of Hindu Astrology" by Dr. B-V. Raman for 
a fuller treatment and understanding of Mathematical 
Astrology. 


CHAPTER 4 
TIME MEASURES 


4.1 The time is measured in hours, minutes, seconds and 
fractions of second in the western system which is now 
commonly used in India and other countries of the world. 
However the division of time is peculiar to 'Hindus'. It begins 
with a Tatpara and ends in a kalpa. A kalpa is equal to 
4,320,000,000 sidereal years. The Hindu day (an apparent solar 
day) begins from Sunrise and ends with the next sunrise when 
the next day begins. 


4.2 The Hindu division of time is as under : 


60 Tatpara = | Para 

60 Para = 1 Vilipta 

60 Vilipta) = 1! Lipta (or Vilipta) 
60 Lipta = 1 Vighati (or Pala) 
60 Vighati = 1 Ghati=24 minutes 
60 Ghatis = 1 Day=24 hours 


4.3 Again a Hindu measure of time is in terms of ‘Yuga’. 
The details are as under : 


Ist Yuga Sat Yuga = 17,28,000 sidereal years 
2nd Yuga Treta Yuga = 12,96,000 sidereal years 
3rd Yuga Dwapar Yuga = 8,64,000 sidereal years 
4th Yuga Kali Yuga = 4,32,000 sidereal years 


(35) 


36 Mathematical Astrology 


Total of 4 Yugas or 1 Mahayuga = 43,20,000 sidereal years 
1 Kalpa = 1,000 Mahayuga 
43,20,000 x 1000 
43 20,000,000 Sidereal years. 
1 day of Brahma = 2 Kalpas 
(i.e. 1 Kalpa day and | kalpa night) 
1 yearof Brahma = 360% 2 Kalpas 
or | Brahma Varsha= 720 Kalpas 
Aayu of Brahma = 1,000 Brahma Varsha. 
4.4 Sidereal Day 


This is the time taken by the earth to rotate once on its 
axis with reference to any fixed star. This is known as 
Nakshatra Dina among the Hindus and is equal to 23 hrs. 56 
min, (approx.) of 'Mean solar day'. 

4.5 Sidereal Year 

The Sidereal year is the mean period of revolution of the 
earth in its orbit with respect to the background stars (from 
fixed star to fixed star). 


4.6 Apparent Solar Day 

This is also known as 'Savana Day'. This is longer than 
the 'Sidereal Day' by about 4 (four) minutes. According to 
Surya-Sidhanta Savana day is reckoned from sunrise to next 
sunrise. 


4.7 Mean Solar Day 


This is reckoned by considering the average length of 
all the days in a year. 


Mathematical Astrology 37 


4.8 Months 
There are two types of months in vogue in Hindus which 
are as follows : 


(a) Lunar Month or Chandra Maan : It has 30 lunar 
days or Tithis and is measured from New Moon to next new 
Moon. At some other places it is measured from Full Moon 
to next Full Moon. 


(b) Solar Month or Saur Maan : It is the time the Sun 
takes to move in one sign and is measured from one Sankranti 
to the next Sankranti. 


4.9 Years 


In Hindus there are three types of different years in vogue 
which are as follows. 


(a) The Savana year : It has 360 mean solar days 
(b) The Lunar year : It has 354 mean solar days 

(c) The Nakshatra year : \t has 324 mean solar days 
4.10 Tropical Year 


The Tropical Year or the year of seasons, is the time of 
the passage of the Sun from one Vernal Equinox to the next 
Vernal Equinox. The VE. point slips to the west at the rate of 


50%" per year. 
4.11 Anomalistic Year 


The anomilistic year is the mean interval beween 
successive passages of the earth through perihelion. Perihelion 
is the 7 2int on a planetary orbit (in this case earth) when it is 
at the least distance from the Sun. 


4.12 The lengths of different years mentioned in para 
4.5, 4.10 and 4.11 above, according to modern calculation 


38 Mathematical Astrology 


(as given by Dr. B.V Raman in his book A Manual of Hindu 
Astrology) are as follows : 


Year Length 
D H M S 
The Tropical year 365 5 48 456 
The Sidereal year 365 6 9 97 
The Anomalistic year 365 6 13 48 


EXERCISE - 4 


Question 1 : Define the following : 
(a) Tropical Year (d) Sidereal Day 
_ (b) Sidereal Year (e) Appaent Solar Day 
(c) Anomalistic Year (f) Mean Solar Day 
Question 2 : Convert the following in Hour, Min and 
Sec. 
(i) 55 Ghati 23 pal (ii) 2 Ghati 56 Pal (iii) 32 ghatis 
Question 3 : Convert the following into Ghati, Pal and 
Vipal 
(i) 6 Hrs 45 Min 30 Secs (ii) 13 Hrs49 Min 36 Sec 
(iii) 21 Hrs 3 Min 45 Secs (iv) 17Hrs21 Min 12 Sec 


CHAPTER 5 
TIME DIFFERENCES 


5.1 Students are aware that the Sun is the creator of time, 
day and night and the seasons. A Hindu day commences from 
the sunrise and remains in force till the next sunrise, when 
the next day commences. When the Sun is exactly overhead 
it is called Mid day or Local noon. At the moment of sunrise 
for any place, the local time for that place is Zero hour (or 
Ghati) as per traditional Hindu system of reckoning. the 
time.However as the earth is not a flat body but spherical and 
also rotating on its axis, the Sun rises at different times at 
different places. As the rotation of the earth on its own axis 
is from west to east, it is evident that the eastern part of 
the earth will see the Sun first, and due to the rotation of 
the earth, further western parts of the earth moves towards 
east gradually and see the Sun. This process goes on and on. 
In other words, as we live on this planet earth we do not see 
or feel the rotation of the earth from west to east, but we see 
that the Sun rises in the east and gradually comes over head 
and then sets in the west. 


5.2 Local Time 


We have seen above that the eastern parts of the earth 
will see the Sun first and subsequently as more and more 
western parts move to east due to rotation of earth, those parts 
Will also gradually see the Sun. In other words it means that 
the Sun will rise later at a particular place as compared to a 


(39) 


40 Mathematical Astrology 


place towards east of the earlier place. lt therefore implies 
that Zero hour of the day will commence earlier at a place 
which is in the east of another place where the Zero hour of 
the day will commence later. Similarly the Noon time or the 
Mid day will occur earlier in the eastern part of the earth as 
compared to any place towards west of the earlier place. We 
know that earth complete one full rotation (360°) on its axis 
in about 24 hours or 24 x 60 = 1440 minutes. It simply means 
that Earth will take about 1440/360 +4 min. to rotate by 1° 
on its axis. We can therefore conclude that Zero hour at a 
place 'B' which is 1° towards west of place 'A', will commence 
later by 4 minutes as compared to place 'A'. So the local time 
differs from place to place. Strictly speaking as neither the 
earth is a perfect sphere nor its orbit around the Sun is a perfect 
circle and as also the axis of earth is inclined by about 23/4° 
to the perpendicular to the plane of earth's orbit, even the 
duration of time or the rate of elapsing of local time is not 
uniform for the same place. In order to have a uniform rate of 
time lapse and also to avoid complex mathematical 
computations, a more convenient term has been adopted for 
Astrological purposes which is known as 'Local Mean Time' 
for a particular place. The local time or more accurately the 
local mean time (LMT) which is created by the gradual rising 
of the Sun and the roundness and rotation of the earth is the 
real or natural time of a place. This differs from place to place 
and is dependent on the longitude and latitude of the place. In 
Astrology we reduce every given time into Local Mean Time 
first and then proceed further. 


5.3 Standard time 
As explained above, the local time differs from place to 
place. This becomes quite inconvenient when we have to refer 


to time at a broader perspective say National or International 
level. With the advent of the postal department and later the 


Mathematical Astrology 41 


railways, Airways etc., this difficulty increased in india as 
well as elsewhere. Anew version of time was therefore decided 
upon and was called the ‘Standard Time’ to have the 
uniformity of time which was the L.M.T. of a centrally located 
longitude in that country. In case of India, it was in the year 
1906 AD when it was decided that the terrestrial longitude 
82°30'E will be taken as the Standard Meridian of India for 
this purpose and the Local Mean Time (L.M.T.) at this 
Meridian (82°30' East longitude) will be the 'Indian Standard 
Time’. By this arrangement, the watches began to show a 
uniform time through out the country. 


54 In the case of bigger countries like U.S.A., the entire 
country was divided into 4 or 5 convenient zones and for each 
zone a standard meridian representing that zone was chosen 
as standard meridian for that zone. The L.M.T. at that particular 
meridian was considered to be the Zonal Standard Time (ZST) 
applicable for that zone only. Students are advised to see the 
last page of their Tables of Ascendants by N.C. Lahiri, wherein 
the 5 different time zones have been indicated for the U.S.A. 


5.5 Greenwitch Mean Time 


As in the case of a country, the necessity to have a uniform 
time, generated the concept of ‘Standard Time' for a country, 
in the international affairs, it was considered necessary to have 
a standard time which could be referred to by all the countries 
of the world whenever needed. Students will recall that the 
meridian passing through the Greenwich (near London) has 
been chosen as the 0° longitude or the reference point for 
reckoning the terrestrial longitudes of all places on earth. 
Therefore the local time at the meridian of Greenwich at 
any epoch (moment) is known as Greenwich Meantime 
(GM.T)). 


42 Mathematical Astrology 


5.6 Conversion of Time 


Students will recall that while discussing the local time 
vide Para 5.2 above, we worked out that a difference of 1° in 
the geographical longitudes of two adjacent places on earth 
will make a difference of 4 minutes in their local time. 
Therefore by using this principle, we can convert any given 
time in one form to the other two forms viz if the time given 
is in IST, we can convert it to the LMT or GMT as desired or 
required, if the geographical (terrestrial) longitude of the place 
is known. Similarly, we can always convert any meridian of 
longitude from degrees to time and find out the time zone for 
any country if the longitude of the standard meridian for that 
country is known. 


5.7 Time Zone 


Time Zone is nothing but the standard meridian for any 
country (or any zone within a big country) expressed in terms 
of hours and minutes diference with reference to the GM.T. 
In other words the difference between standard Time of any 
country or zonal standard time of any zone and the GMT is 
known as the time zone for that country or zone. The ‘ime 
zone is (+) or (-) according to the longitude of standard 
meridian for the country or zone being towards the east or 
west of Greenwich. 


Example 1: The geographical longitude of the standard 
meridian for India for IST = 82°30' East 


Multiplying this by 4 we get (as 1 ° is equal to 4 minutes, 
1' will be equal to 4 sec.) 


= 82°x4min: 30' 4 sec 
= 328 min: 120 secs = 330 min 


5 hrs 30 minutes 


Mathematical Astrology 43 


Since India is towards east of Greenwich the time zone 
for India will be = (+) 5h30m which means that IST will always 
be ahead of GMT by 5'30". So if the GMT is 6:00 AM, the 
Equivalent IST will be 6":00" + 5":30" = 11.30" AM. 


5.8 Similarly, if the time zone of a country is known, we 
can work out the longitude of the Standard Meridian for that 
country. 


Example 2 : Find out the longitude of the Standard 
Meridian for Mexico if it falls in Time Zone (-) 6 hrs. 


(a) Since the Time Zone is (-) hence the longitude of the 
place will be towards "west" of Greenwich 


(b) Time Zone = 6 hours 
or 6 x 60 = 360 mins 


As 4mins= 1 ° 


‘ 360 
So 360 min = — = 90° 
4 


Therefore, longitude of Standard Meridian for Mexico 
= 90°W 

Example 3 :Find out the longitude of Standard Meridian 
for New York if it falls under Time Zone (-)5 hrs. 
Solution : Time Zone = 5 hrs 


or 5 x 60 = 300 mins. 


aN hh 300 
Dividing it by 4 we get = rs =75° 


Since the Time Zone given is (-) it has to be towards 
west of Greenwich. Therefore longitude for Standard Meridian 
for New York = 75°W 


44 Mathematical Astrology 


Example 4 : Find out the longitude of the Standard 
Meridian for Beijing if it falls under Time Zone (+) 8 hours. 


Solution : Time Zone = 8 hrs 
or 8 X 60 = 480 mins. 


: 480 
Dividing it by 4 we get = ae 120° 


Since the Time Zone is (+) it is towards east of Greenwich, 
therefore longitude ofthe Standard Meridian where Beijing 
falls = 120°E 

5.8 L.M.T. Correction 


This is duration of time or a measure of time to be applied 
to find L.M.T. of a place from the standard time of that country 
or zone shown by the watch. This is obtained by inultiplying 
the difference of longitude of the place from the Standard 
Meridian by 4 minutes per degree. The L.M.T. correction is 
either (+) or (-) depending on whether the place is towards 
East (E) or West (W) from the standard meridian for that 
country. In order to find out the L.M_T. correction, one should 
proceed as follows : 


Step |: Find out the longitude of Standard Meridian for 
the country or zone as the case may be. If it is not 
readily available, note down the time zone from 
the list of cities given by N.C. Lahiri in his book 
Tables of Ascendants or Indian Ephemeris and 
work out the longitude as explained in Examples 


2 to 4 above. 

Step 2: Note down the longitude of the place for which 
the L.M.T. or L.M.T. correction is desired. 

Step 3: Also note whether the longitude of the place is 


towards east or west of the Standard Meridian. 


Mathematical Astrology 45 


Step 4: 


Step 5: 


Step 6: 


Step 7: 


Find out the difference in degrees (or the angular 
difference between the two long). 

Multiply the difference (in step 4 above) by 4. 
The product will give you the L.M.T. correction. 
(Apply correction at the rate of 4 'Min' per degree 
to find out LMT). 

Prefix the sign (+) or (-) to the L.M.T. correction 
depending whether the place is towards 'E' or ‘W 
of the Standard meridian. 


Apply the L.M.T. correction to the ST (Standard 
Time) given to get the L.M.T. 


5.9 If the L.M.T. is given and it is desired to find the 
Standard Time, then reverse the sign (+ or -) prefixed to the 
L.M.T. correction worked out in step 5 and 6 above and then 
apply the correction. The Examples given below will clarify 
the above steps. 


Example 5: If the time of birth of a native born at Delhi 
is 10:30 AM (IST) find out the Local Mean Time of birth of 


native. 


Solution: 


Step 1: Long. of standard meridian of India 


for IST = 82°30'E 
Step 2: Long. of place of Birth 
i.e. Delhi =77°13E 


Step 3: By persual of the two long. it is clear that Delhi is 
towards west of the standard meridian of India. 


Step 4: Diff. in the two long. = 82930'-77°13' = 5°17 
Step 5: Multiplying by 4 we get = (5x4)+(17x4) 


or 


= 2Qmia 685¢¢ 
LMT. corr = 21" gse 


46 


Mathematical Astrology 


Step 6: Keeping in view step 3. the sign to be prefixed will be 


(-)* 
Hence L.M.T. corr = (-)21™ 8sec 


Step 7: Applying the L.M.T. correction we get the LMT. 


of birth 
10 hrs 30 mts (-) 21 mts 8 secs.= 10":8":525 


Example 6 : Find out the L.M.T. correction in Examples 


2, 3, and 4 given earlier. 


(a) Example 2: 

Long. of standard meridian = 90°W 

Long. of Mexico (from the tables) = 99°O1'W 
Hence Mexico is further west of standard meridian 


Difference in the two long. = 99°01'-90° = 9°1' 
Multiplying by 4 we get = 36™ 4% 

Hence L.M.T. corr = (-) 36™ 4s 

(b) Example 3 : 

Long. of standard Meridian = 75° W 


Long. of New York 
(From the tables) 
Hence New York is east of standard meridian 
Difference in the Two long. = 75°-74°=1° 
Multiplying by 4 we get wis) Amin’ ()se6 


Hence L.M.T. correction (+) 4 Ose 


74° W 


(c) Example 4 : 

Long. of standard Meridian = 120°E 

Long. of Beijing (from the tables) = 116°28'E 
Hence Beijing is towards west of standard meridian 


Difference intwo long. = 120° ~116 °28' = 3°32' 
Multiplying by 4 we get = 127 128%¢ 
or = 14™ gsc 


Hence L.M.T. corr. = (-) 1478 


Mathematical Astrology 47 


5.10 Students may please note that the L.M.T. corrections 
worked out by us in Example 5 and 6 above are available and 
can be directly noted from the list of principal cities and foreign 
cities given by N.C. Lahiri in his book Tables of Ascendants 
and Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris for 20/1 (Pages 146 to 160). 
However we have given the above examples so that the 
students can practice and understand the principle thoroughly. 
At times the students may come across a city or place which 
does not find a place in the aforesaid lists given by N.C. Lahiri. 
In such cases though the geographical longitude and latitude 
can be known from any standard Atlas, unless the students 
are well conversant with the underlying principles, they may 
find it difficult to work out the L.M.T. corrections. 


5.11 By making use of the principle as outlined in para 
5.8 and 5.9 above and its practical application explained 
through the examples 5 and 6 it should now be possible for 
us to convert any time (LMT or ZST or IST or GMT) from 
one form to the other for any place in any part of the world. 
The example given below will make it more clear. 
Example 7 : Ifa child is born at 10:30 AM (LMT) at 
Los Angels, what will be the: 
(a) ZST of Birth (b) GMT ofBirth 
(c) IST of Birth (d) LMT of Birth at Delhi. 
Solution (a) ZST of Birth: 
Step 1: Time Zone of Los Angels = (-) 8 hrs 
or = 8 x 60=480™ 
Divide by 4 we get =120° 
Since it is(-), so the Standard Meridian has to be towards 
'W of Greenwich. Therefore Long. of Standard Meridian = 
120°W 


48 Mathematical Astrology 


Step 2: Long. of Los Angels (from the tables) = 118°17'W 


Step 3: Hence Los Angels is towards east of its Standard 
Meridian. So the LMT correction will be (4). 


Step 4: Difference in the two long. = 120°- 118°17' 
= 1°43) 
Step 5: Multiply by 4, we get = Grin 172s 
or ee 6rin SQsec 
Step 6: Hence L.M.T. correction = (+) 6m" 52s 


Now since LMT of Birth is given and we have to find 
the ZST of Birth, so in accordance with Para 5.9 above, we 
have to reverse the sign and then apply the correction. Hence, 


ZST of Birth = 10:30(AM) (—) 6™ 52s¢ 
or Time of Birth = 10"5:23":08*(AM)ZST 
(b) GMT of Birth : As the time zone for Los Angels is 


(-) 8 Hrs, hence the GMT will be more (advance) by 8 Hours 
of ZST. 


GMT of Birth = 10%5:23™:08s (+) 8™ 
or = 18:23": ORs 
or = 6:23™:085 (PM) 


(c) IST of Birth : As the Time Zone of India is (+) 5 
Hours 30 Min. the IST will be ahead (more) of GMT by 5 
Hrs. 30 Min. 

IST of Birth = GMT (+) 5°30" 
6°:23:085 (+) 5§:30" 
= 11':53™:08°¢ (PM) 

(d) LMT at Delhi at the Time of Birth: We have already 
worked out the LMT correction for Delhi in Example 5 above 
which is (-) 21" 08° .. LMT at Delhi at the time of Birth of 
child in Los Angels can be known by applying the LMT 
correction i.e. 


i} 


Mathematical Astrology 49 


] 1°:53™:085*(—) 2 l MOBsec 
or =11">32"PM or 11:32 PM (LMT) 
Alternative Method for (d) above 


We can work out the Difference in longs. of Los Angels 
and Delhi, convert it into Hour & Min and apply 


Long. ofLos Angels = 118°17'W 


Long. of Delhi = 77°13'E 
Therefore Distance between Los Angels and Delhi 
= 195°30' 


Multiply the above angular distance by 4 to get the time 
difference between Los Angels and Delhi. 


Therefore (195°30')x 4 = (195x4)™+ (30x4)s 
780" + 120% = 782m 

= 13h2m 
As Delhi is towards East of Los Angels the time at Delhi 


will be more than Los Angels. Hence the time diff. will be (+) 
or additive. 


ll 


So LMT at Delhi = LMT at Los Angels + 132" 
. = 10:30 AM + 132™ 
= 23%32" 
= = 11°32" PM 
a = 11:32(PM) 
EXERCISE - 5 


Question 1 : If IST of Birth is 02:45 PM, what will be 
LMT at: 
(a) Delhi (b) Bombay (c) Madras 


(d) Calcutta (e) Patna (/) Allahabad 
(g) Varanasi (h) Bangalore (i) Lahore 


50 Mathematical Astrology 


(7) Dhaka (k) San Francisco —_—(/) New York 
(m) Hanoi (n) Munich (o) Rangoon 


Question 2 : Find out the Long. of Standard Meridian if 
the Time Zone is : 


(a) (+) 2 hrs 45 min (b) (-) 4 hrs 20 min. 
(c) (-) 6 hrs 40 min. (d) (+) 8 hrs 15 min. 


Question 3 : If the GMT is 11:50 AM, what will be the 
time (LMT) at : 


(a) Hanoi (b) Tokyo (c) Munich 
(d) Singapore (e) WashingtonDC (f) Delhi 
(g) Ottawa (h) Paris (0 Hong Kong 


Question 4 : Ifthe IST is 10:30 P.M. what will be the 
time (LMT) at: 


(a) 82°30! East long. (b) 82°30' West long. 
(c) 0° long (d) 2° West long. 
(e) 7713' East long. J 118°40' East long 


(g) 118°40' West long. (h) 21° 13' East long. 


Question 5 : Convert the following Local Mean Times 
to IST (indian Standard Time): 


(a) 3:45 PM. at Calcutta (b) 2:30 AM at Bombay 
(c) 6:08 PM at Madras (d) 9:03 AM at New York 
(e) 7:30 PM at Washington DC 

(f) 6:30 AM at Tokyo 

(g) 11:21 AM at San Francisco 

(h) 6:30 PM at GMT 


CHAPTER 6 
SIDEREAL TIME 


6.1 We have seen in the previous lesson the three 
different systems of measuring time viz Local Time or Local 
Mean Time (LMT), Standard Time for any country or Zone 
(i.e. IST, ZST ete.,) and the Greenwich Mean Time (GMT). 
There is yet another system/measure of time which is called 
'Sidereal Time'. The Sidereal Time system is derived from 
the earth's rotation with respect to the stars. The students 
will recall that while discussing the Time Measures vide 
Lesson 4, we defined the Sidereal day as the time taken 
by the earth to rotate once on its axis with reference to 
any fixed star. The duration of this sidereal day is equal to 
23 hrs 56 min (approximately) or 23 hrs 56 min 4.091 sec. 
more precisely, of mean solar day. In astronomical 
terminology, the sidereal time at any instant is defined to 
be the west hour angle of the Vernal Equinoctial (VE) 
point or the first point of Sayana Aries (Mesha) from the 
upper meridian of the place. However for the purpose of 
its application to mathematical astrology, it will suffice to 
define the Sidereal Time as the Local Time reckoned 
according to the apparent rotation of the celestial sphere. In 
other words, whenever the time is reckoned with reference 
to the sidereal day, it is called Sidereal Time. The Sidereal 
Time is 'Zero' hour when the first ponit of Aries or Mesha 
(in sayana system) i.e. vernal or the spring equinox crosses 


G1) 


52 Mathematical Astrology 


the observer's meridian (which is the great circle on the 
celestial sphere, passing through the zenith and both the 
celestial poles). 


6.2 Necessity to have the Sidereal Time System 


Students may be aware that for any astrological 
delineation, the horoscope prepared for a particular epoch 
(moment) is not only a necessity but the only astrological 
equipment available to the astrologer based on which he 
analyses the shape of things to come in the future. The 
horoscope which is a map of heavens at the given moment, 
contains 12 houses and the commencement of the 
horoscope is the ‘first house' or the ‘lagna’ or the 
‘ascendant'. It is therefore most important to calculate 
the correct lagna or the ascendant without which no 
horoscope can be prepared. Students may now recall that 
while discussing about the ascendant or lagna vide Para 3.9 
of Lesson 3 it was stated that due to the rotatory motion 
of the earth from west to east on its axis, the whole of 
sky (or the zodiac with which an astrologer is concerned) 
appears to come up (or rising) from below the horizon 
gradually and the sign or rashi (and more particularly the 
exact degree of the zodiac or that sign) rising in the eastern 
horizon, is known as the ‘lagna’ or 'ascendant'. As the 
lagna or ascendant or the sign of zodiac rising on the 
eastern horizon of a place at any time, is dependent on 
the rotation of earth on its axis due to which the time 
system known as the 'Sidereal Time' is also created, so it 
becqmes evident that the rising sign or the lagna, in turn, 
is dependent on the sidereal time of the place at the 
given moment or epoch. It therefore transpires that in order 
to know the lagna or the rising sign for a particular 
moment or epoch (be it a birth of a child or birth of a 
question, incident or accident etc.) it Is necessary to first 


Mathematical Astrology 53 


calculate the sidereal time of the moment at that place 
where the birth of a child or a question or incident has 
taken place. Students may please refer to the Tables of 
Ascendants by N.C. lahiri and see themselves that the 
Ascendants for the different latitudes are given with reference 
to the sidereal time only. We therefore now proceed to discuss 
the method to calculate the sidereal time of a given moment 
or epoch. 


6.3 How to calculate the Sidereal Time of a given 
moment or Epoch 


Students are advised to refer to the Tables of 
Ascendauts by N.C. Lahiri and proceed as follows : 


Alternatively, see column 4 of each month that contains 
sum total of Step 1 and Step LU for the relevant date from 
current years' ephemeris and follow further from step 3 
onwards as narrated here under : 


Step 1: Note down the sidereal time at 12h noon local 
mean time for 82°30E longitude for 1900 AD 
for the day and month of the given moment 
from Table 1 at page 2. 


Step 2: Note the correction for the given year from Table 
11 given on pages 3 and 4 of the book and apply 
to sidereal time in step |. 


Step 3: . Note the correction for the different localities 
from Table IIT given on page 5. A detailed list of 
principal cities of India has been given on pages 
100 to 107. The last column of the table indicates 
the correction to the ‘Indian Sidereal Time’. 
Similarly the table for the foreign cities has been 
given on page 109 to 111 of the book and the 
last column of the table again indicates the 
correction to the Indian Sidereal Time. 


4 


Step 4: 


Step 5: 


Step 6: 


Mathematical Astrology 


The correction for the year (step 2) and the 
correction for the place (step 3) should be applied 
to the sidereal time noted in step 1 according to 
the sign (+) or (-) prefixed to the correction as 
shown in the respective table. Having applied 
these corrections, the result obtained (let us call 
it‘A’) will represent the Sidereal time for the 
given date, year and place but will be for the 
local noon i.e. 12 hrs, as we have not yet applied 
the correction for the hour and minutes before 
or after the local noon, as the case may be, for 
the given moment. 


Convert the given time of epoch into LMT by 
applying the LMT correction. This has been 
discussed elaborately in great detail and 
explained with the help of examples also vide 
para 5.8 of the preceding chapter. However the 
quantum and the sign (+, -) of the correction to 
be applied to the IST or ZST, as the case may 
be, has also been indicated in the tables of 
Ascendant at pages 100to 107 for principal cities 
of India under column LMT from IST and, at 
pages 108 to 112 for foreign cities under column 
LMT from ZST. 


As the Sidereal time noted in the step 1 pertains 
to the local noon, we have to find out as to how 
many hours before or after the local noon, is the 
given time of the moment or Epoch. In other 
words we have io find out the "Time Interval" 
between the Local Mean Noon (LMN) and the 
LMT of the given moment. So, in case the LMT 
of the given moment is before noon, subtract it 
from 12:00 hours. In case the LMT of the given 
moment is in the afternoon, the LMT itself 

ecomes the Time Interval (T.I.) also because 


Mathematical Astrology 35 


after 12 noon our watches show 1:00 PM and 
not 13:00 which means that 12 hours have 
already been deducted. 


Step 7: The Time Interval (TJ.) worked out in step 6 
above is to be increased by applying the 
correction given in table IV which gives the 
correction for hours and minutes of the TI. By 
applying this correction we get the Increased 
T.I, Let us call it (B). 


Step 8 : The ‘Increased T.I.' (B) is added to the corrected 
Sidereal Time (A) in step 4 above in the case of 
PM (afternoon) births or epoch and, subtracted 
from the (A) in the case of AM (before noon) 
births or epoch, as the case may be. The result 
thus obtained is the Sidereal Time of the birth 
or epoch or the given moment. The above 
mentioned eight steps can be explained with the 
help of a practical example or illustration. 


Example 1 : Find out the Sidereal Time of birth of a 
native born at Delhi on Tuesday the 25th October 2005 at 
09:30 AM (IST) 


Solution : Use Tables of Ascendants by N.C. Lahiri 
Step 1 : Sidereal Time at 12h noon 


on 25 October 1900 (page 3) = 14": 12": 45s 
Step 2 : Correction for the year 2005 

(from page 4) = (+) 2™ : 16s 
Step 3 : Correction for Place (Delhi) 

(page 5 as well as page 102) = (+) 0" : 03s 
Step 4: Sid. Time on 25th Oct. 2002 

at Delhi, at noon (A) = 14%: 15": 04; 
Step 5 : IST of birth (given) = 09:30:00 

LMT correction (page 102) = (-) 21 : 08 


Therefore LMT of Birth 09 : 08 : 52 


ll 


56 


Step 6: 


Step 7: 


Step 8: 


TI from noon (subtract the 
LMT from 12h being AM birth) 


(12 hrs - 9 hrs 8 mts 52 secs) = 


Correction to increase the TI 
from table IV (page 5) 

for 2 hrs 

for 51 min 8 sec 


Therefore Increased TI (B) = 
Being AM Birth (A)-(B) = 


Sidereal Time of birth = 


02 251 :08 


00 :20 
00 :09 


14:15:04 


(-) 02:51:37 
11 :23 :27 


Mathematical Astrology 


02 :51 :37 


Example 2 : Find out the Sidereal Time of birth of a 
native born at New York on 25th October 2005 at 09:30 
AM (ZST) 


Solution : Use Tables of Ascendants by NC. Lahiri 


Step 1: 
Step 2 : 
Step 3: 
Step 4: 


Step 5: 


Step 6: 


Step 7: 


Sidereal Time for 25 Oct 1900 


at 12 noon LMT at 82°30E long. (page3) 


Correction for the year 2005 
(page 4) 

Correction for place of birth 
(New York) page 111 


Sidreal Time on 25th October, 2002 


at noon at New York (A) 
ZST of birth (given) 

LMT correction (page-111) 
Therefore LMT of Birth 


Tl. from noon 

(12 hrs - 9 hrs 34 mts) 
Correction to increase T1 
for 2 hrs 

for 26 min 


Therefore Increased T1 (B) 


h m 
14:12: 


(+4) 2: 


(+) 1 


=02:26: 


=+ 
=+ 


= 02:26 3 


s 
45 


16 


: 43 


= 14: 16':44 
09:30: 
= (+)04: 
=09: 343: 


00 
00 


00 
00 
20 


04 
24 


Mathematical Astrology S7 


Step 8 : Being AM Birth (A)-(B) =14: 16: 44 
(-) 02 : 26: 24 
Sidereal Time of Birth = 11:50:20 


Example 3 : Find out the Sidereal Time of birth of a native 
born at Sydney (Australia) at 3:25 PM (ZST) on 17th August 2005 


Solution : Use Tables of Ascendants by N.C. Lahiri 


hm s 
Step 1 : Sidereal Time on 17 August 1900 = 09: 40: 43 
at 12 noon LMT at 82°30 (page3) 
Step 2: Correction for the year 2005 (page 4) = (+)2: 16 
Step 3 : Correction for place of birth = (-)00: 45 
(Sydney) page 111 
Step 4: Sid. Time on 17th August, 2005 at 
noon at Sydney (A) =09:42: 14 
Step 5 : ZST of birth (given) = 03 : 25 3:00 
LMT correction (page 111) = (+)04:48 
Therefore LMT of Birth = 03 : 29 48 


Step 6: TI. from noon, being PM 
birth, the LMT itself becomes the TI = 03 : 29 :48 
Step 7: Increase in Tl (Table IV page 5) (Available at page: 33 
ibid at the end of chapter 3 of this book) 


for 3 hrs =+ 30 

for 29 min 48 sec =+ 05 
Therefore Increased TI (B) = 03 : 30:23 

Step 8: Being PM Birth (A)+(B) = 09:42: 14 
(+) 03 : 30 :23 

Sidereal Time of Birth = 13: 12 :37 


Note: See current Ephemeris of 2005 against 17th 
August 2005 in column No: 4 you will find the figure 
9-42-59. If we take the sidereal Time given in current 
Ephemeris this will cover | (noting sidereal time) and 2“ 
(noting year's correction) step as advised on page 50 (para 


58 Mathematical Astrology 


6.3), 3" step (correction of place) is to make correction to 
Indian Sidereal Time (as adopted from Lahiri’s Indian 
Ephemeris for Indian, cities (P 144 to 153) and for foreign 
cities (P-155 to 157) in last column of the tables given. 
Example 4. For Date of birth is 26th January 2011, 
the sidereal Time at Noon of the day is as under: 
Use of Table of Ascendant 


Sid. T. at Noon of 26-1-1900 H M S 
For 82°30'E (P-2) 20 - 20 - 32 
Correction for the year 2011 (P-4) +0-0-29 

20 - 20 - 51 


Only based on Ephemeris 2011 at page 16 of 
Ephemeris of 2011 in month of January against 26 Jan 2011 
sid. Time given is: 

20 - 20 - 5] 

Both the calculations are same. Now follow other steps 
(3) correction for place of birth 4 and 5 LMT correction to 
birth time for Indian cities (page 146 to 155) and for other 
countries (P-157 to 159) (6) TJ. from noon, for (as is 
necessary) (7) Increase in TI. on aforesaid pages in last 
Column Heading (corr. to IST) we can calculate Ascendant 
from the current Ephemeris without using Table of 
Ascendant. 

6.4 Caution 


We hope that by now the students would have 
nnderstood the methodology to work out the Sidereal Time 
very clearly. However before we end we would caution our 
students to note carefully the few points mentioned below : 

6.4.1 Unlike the civil time (LMT or GMT or IST or 
ZST) the Sidereal Time is never expressed in terms of AM 
or PM. It is always starting at ‘O’ hour and goes upto 24 
hours after which it again starts as Oh, 

6.4.2 WAR TIME : From Ist Sept. 1942 to 14th Oct. 
1945, the Indian Standard Time (IST) was advanced by 


Mathematical Astro I ogy 59 


one hour all over India including modern Bangla Desh 
and Pakistan for purposes of daylight saving during the war 
period and was thus ahead of GMT by 6H 30 min. Therefore 
any recorded time during this period (Both days inclusive) 
must be reduced by | hour to get the corrected IST before 
LMT correction is applied to obtain the LMT of birth. 
(Provided the same correction is not made while noting 
down the time on the record.) 


64.3 SUMMER TIME : Students are advised to refer 
to page 112 of their Tables of Ascendants, also page 157 of 
Ephemeris of 2011, and read carefully each and every word 
thereof in order to acquaint themselves with the summer 
timings being observed in Britain, USA, Canada, Mexico, 
USSR and other European countries mentioned therein. The 
recorded time falling on the dates/period of summer timings 
indicated in page 112 and also on page 157 of Ephemeris 
of 2011, must therefore be corrected first as applicable, 
before it is converted to local Mean time of epoch. 


EXERCISE 6 


Question : Find out the sidereal time of Birth in respect 
of under mentioned particulars/details of Birth : 


S. No. Date of Birth Time of Birth Place of Birth 
(DOB) (TOB) (POB) 
(a) 21-2-2011 5:25 AM (IST) Meerut (UP, India) 
(6) 1-7-2011 10:30 PM (IST) Bangalore (India) 
©) 17-8-2011 6:24 PM (ZST) Tokyo (Japan) 
(dq) —-:23-4-2011 4:40 PM (LMT) Seoul (S.Korea) 
(e) 10-12-2011 2:20 PM (ZST) Greenwich (England) 
) 5-6-2011 11:30 PM (ZST) Rangoon (Burma) 
(g) 25-12-2011 00:29 AM (IST) Jaipur (Rajasthan, India) 
(A) 01-01-2011 12:00 Noon (LMT) Kakinada (Andhra 
Pradesh, India) 

© 23-9-2011 12:21:08 PM (IST) New Delhi (India) 
() 25-4-2011 5:30 PM (ZST) New York (USA) 


Note : For the facility of the students, the Questions 
for calculating the sidereal time of birth for current year are 
given. The student can try for the years 1821, 1816, 1911, 
1923 or any other year to have practice. 


CHAPTER 7 
SUNRISE AND SUNSET 


7.1 In the previous lesson we have seen the 
methodology for working out the Sidereal Time of birth or 
of an epoch. With this Sidereal Time we enter the relevant 
Table of Ascendants for the latitude of the place of birth to 
find out the Ascendant. However, before we proceed on to 
find the ascendant or lagna or the rising sign, we deal with 
the subject of sunrise and sunset in this lesson. The time of 
sunrise, sunset etc is very useful in astrological calculation 
to find out the dinmaan, ratrimaan (i.e. the duration of day 
and night), /shtakala or Ishtaghati which forms the basis to 
calculate the lagna rising by the traditional method, Kaal 
horas, Kaal velaas, Hora lagna, Mandi, Rahu kaalam etc., 
which have great significance in the Hindu Astrology. 


72 Sunrise 


The exact moment at which the Sun first appears at the 
eastern horizon of a place is time of sunrise. As the Sun has 
a definite diameter, the solar disc takes some time i.e. about 
5 to 6 minutes to rise. Therefore, from the first visibility of 
the upper limb of the solar disc to the time when the bottom 
limb of the solar disc is just above the horizon of the place, 
there will be a time diference of about 5 to 6 minutes. It 
has, therefore, been acknowledged that for astrological 
purpose we may take the moment at which the centre or the 


(61) 


62 Mathematical Astrology 


middle of the solar disc is at the eastern horizon of the 
place as the sunrise time for that place. 


7.3 Sunset 


Similarly the sunset for a particular place is the exact 
moment at which the centre or the middle of the solar disc 
is at the western horizon of the place. 


74 Apparent Noou 


This is marked when the centre of the Sun or the middle 
of the Solar Disc is exactly on the meridian of the place. 
The apparent noon is almost the same for all places. 


75 Alias and Ratri 


Ahas is the duration of day i.e. the duration of time 
from sunrise to sunset. Ratri is the duration of time from 
sunset to sunrise. On the equator, the Ahas and Ratri are 
always 30 ghatis or 12 hours each, while on other latitudes 
the sum of Ahas and Ratri will be 24 hours or 60 ghatis. 


7.6 Calculation of time of Sunrise and Sunset 


In this lesson we propose to calculate the time of 
Sunrise and Sunset by the method of ‘interpolation’ from 
the given data in the Ephemeris. However there is a proper 
method to calculate the time of sunrise and sunset without 
making any reference to the given data in the Ephemeris. 
We don't propose to discuss that method through this lesson 
as the same is not only cumbersome but involves too much 
mathematical calculation needing enormous time which is 
not warranted being beyond the scope and purview of these 
lessons. However we may advise those students who wants 
to dive deep into the subject of sunrise and sunset to refer 
to Chapter V (Sunrise and Sunset) of the book titled A 
manual of Hindu Astrology by Dr. B.V. Raman, wherein a 
detailed exposition of the subject has been given by the 
learned author. 


Mathematical Astrology 63 


7.7 Calculation of time of Sunrise and Sunset by 
Method of Interpolation 


Step 1 : 


Step 2 : 


Step 3: 


Step 4: 


Step 5: 


As the time of sunrise or sunset differs from 
latitude to latitude we must first of all note the 
latitude for the place where the time of sunrise 
etc., is desired. 


Refer to page 100 and 101 of Lahiri's Indian 
Ephemeris for the year 2011 and select two such 
consecutive dates between which the date for 
which the sunrise time is desired, falls. Similarly 
select two such consecutive latitudes from the 
table at page 100 and 101 so that the latitude 
of our desired place falls in between the two 
latitudes so selected. 


Note down the timings of sunrise or the sunset 
as the case may be, for the above selected dates 
and latitudes as given in the table. 


Find the time of sunrise and/or sunset by 
interpolation (simple ratio and proportion 
method). The time so obtained will be the Local 
mean Time (LMT) of the time of visibility of 
the upper limb of the solar Disc. Add 3 minutes 
to the time of sunrise and deduct 3 minutes from 
the time of sunset to get the LMT of coincidence 
of the centre of the solar disc with the horizon. 


In case the time is required in terms of IST or 
ZST, apply LMT correction as applicable by 
reversing the (+) or (-) sign prefixed to the LMT 
correction as given in the list of table of 
Ascendants from Page 100 to 111 or Current 
Ephemeris pages 146 to 159. 


64 Mathematical Astrology 


7.8 The above method has also been indicated at page 
109 of Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris for the year 2011 and 
students are advised to follow the same with advantage. 
However we also give below the illustration to explain the 
steps mentioned above more clearly to our students. 

Example | : Desired IST of Sunrise and Sunset at 
Delhi on Oct 27. 


Solution : Use pages 90 to 101 of Lahiri's Indian 
Ephemeris for 2011. 


Step 1 : Latitude of Delhi (Page 148 of Ephemeris for 2011) 
= 28°39'N or 28.65°N 

Step 2 : Dates selected are Oct 23 and Oct 31, 
Latitudes selected are 20°N and 30°N 


Step 3: The data given for the above mentioned dates and 
latitudes at page (100-101) of the Ephemeris 2011 
is as follows: 


Sunrise (LMT) Sunset (LMT) 


Date Latitudes Latitude 
20°N 30°N 20°N 30°N 
Oct 23 5:57 6:07 5:3] 5:2] 
Oct 31 6:01 6:13 5:26 5:14 


Step 4: We can now obtain the values for Oct 27 by simple 
interpolation which are as follows : 


Oct 27 5:59 6:10 5:28.5  5:175 
variation for 10°= (+) 11 (-)11 


whe 11 11 
variation for 8.65° = HI «8.65 -)ip x8.65 


(Since Delhi's Latitude is (28.65°-20° = 8.65°) 
i.e., 8.65° away from 20° Latt.) 


Mathematical Astrology 65 


Step 5 : 


Step 6: 


= 9:52 min 9:52, min. 
or say = (+) 9 min (-) 9 min 
Therefore LMT of 
upperlimb visibility = 6:08 AM 5:19 PM 
LMT for centre of 
solar disc = (4) 0:03 (-)0:03 
6.11 AM 5.16 PM 
Students may now compare this with the Time of 
sunrise and sunset (upper Limb) for Delhi given 
on page 97 of Ephemeris which is as follows for 
27 Oct. 
6:29 AM 1741 
IST of Sunrise IST of Sunset 
(Upper limb) (Upper limb) 
Deducting 21" 0:21.1 0:21.1 
(being LMT 6:08 AM 5:20 PM 
correction) LMT of Sunrise LMT of Sunset 
(Upper limb) (Upper limb) 


Solar Disc 
correction (+) 0: 03.5 (-)0 : 03:5 
LMT for Center 6 : 11 AM _ 35:17PM 


of Solar Disc 
which is the same as worked out in Step 4. 


EXERCISE - 7 


Find out the IST or ZST (as applicable) of Sunrise and 
Sunset for the dates and places given below : 


(a) July 27 at New York 

(b) Feb 21 at Meerut (UP) India 
(c) Oct 17 at Munich 

(d) Dec 25 at Tokyo (Japan) 

(e) Jan 26 at Calcutta 

() June 06 at Washington D.C. 
(g) April 09 at Harare 

(h) Sept. 11 at Sydney 


CHAPTER 8 
CASTING OF HOROSCOPE | 
MODERN AND TRADITIONAL METHOD 


8.1 The horoscope is a map of heavens for a given 
moment at a particular place. It indicates the sign of Zodiac 
rising on the eastern horizon of the place at the given moment 
which is known as the lagna or the Ascendant. It is also 
known as the first house and the successive Rashis/signs 
becomes the successive houses or Bhavas (as called in Hindu 
Astrology). Apart from the lagna or the Ascendant this map 
also indicates position of various Rashis and Planets at the 
given moment/epoch. 


8.2 Forms of Horoscope 


There are many types/forms presently in vogue in 
different parts of India as well as in the European countries. 
For the reference of students we give here some of the most 
commonly used formats by Astrologers in India and abroad. 
Students are advised to make themselves familiar with these 
‘Formats', though they may follow any one of these 
appealing to be the most convenient : 


(67) 


68 Mathematical Astrology 


8.2.1 TYPE I: This is the format which is commonly 
used in North/North-west part of India. The top middle 
portion is always treated as the lagna or Asc or the I House 
and the number of the Rashi/sign rising at the moment of 
birth on the eastern horizon of the place is indicated here 
e.g. 10 for makar or Capricorn. Then the counting of houses 
is done anti-clockwise. So the II house will have the sign/ 
Rashi next to Capricorn (Makar) i.e. Kumbha or Aquarius 
written there as No.1 1. The number of the successive Rashi/ 
sign is then written consecutively one after the other in the 
succeeding houses, anticlockwise. Then the position of the 
planets at the moment is worked out and posted in the 
horoscope in the respective rashi/sign occupied by them in 
the Zodiac. 


8.2.2 TYPE I: This type of format of Horoscope is 
commonly used in the Southern part of India. In this type 
the counting of houses is in clockwise direction. Here the 
position of Rashis/sign are fixed for all the horoscopes, e.g. 
the top left hand square in the chart represent the sign Pisces 
(Meena) and succeeding Squares in clockwise direction will 
represent Aries (Mesha), Taurus (Vrisha), Gemini (Mithuna), 
and so on. As this sequence of sign/Rashis is fixed for all 
the horoscopes, these are never written in chart. The sign/ 
Rashis rising on the eastern horizon of the place or the 
lagna or Asc is marked in the appropriate sign in the chart 
as shown and word lagna or Asc is written in that sign. 
Afterwards the planets according to their position in the 
Zodiac at the moment are posted in the respective sign in 
the chart to make the map or the horoscope complete. 


8.2.3 TYPE Ill : This type of chart is commonly used 
in Bengal and Neighbouring area. In a way it combines the 
two charts discussed earlier i. Type I and Type II in as 
much as the counting of houses is done anticlockwise (like 
Type I) but the position of Rashis/signs is fixed for all the 


Mathematical Astrology 69 


horoscope (as in the case of Type I). The other aspects like 
posting the position of planets etc., are similar to other 
charts. The lagna is written in the appropriate sign in the 
chart. 


Type II , Type IV 


8.2.4 TYPE IV : This chart is commonly used by 
Western Astrologers. Now a days some Astrologers in India 
particularly in Maharashtra have also started using this type 
of chart for the horoscopes. This is a circular chart as shown 
in the figure, the twelve Bhavas or houses are marked in 
chart and symbol along with the degree is also indicated on 
each bhava. In Indian (Hindu) Astrology, the cusps are treated 
as bhava Madhya or the middle point of the houses where 
as in Western Astrology, the Asc cusp means the beginning 
of the first house, the II cusp means end of Ist house and 
beginning of the II house and so on. The planets are also 
shown with their symbols only and the degrees of the zodiac 
acquired by a planet is also written along with the Planet in 
the chart. 


83 Casting of Horoscope 


The process of casting of horoscope involves two main 
activities. Firstly we have to find by calculation the exact 
degree of longitude of the Ascendant or the lagna. Secondly 


70 Mathematical Astrology 


we have to calculate the longitudes of all the nine planets 
or grahas mentioned earlier in chapter 1. 


8.3.1 There are mainly two important methods to find 
out the lagna and the planetary position at the time of birth 
of a child or a question, event, or incident/accident. The 
first method is called the modern method by using the table 
of Ascendants and ephemeris. The other method is traditional 
method adopted by the Hindu astrologers where the 
horoscopes are prepared with the help of traditional 
Panchangas (almanacs, a kind of traditional ephemeris). Now 
a days with the advent of calculators, log tables, computers 
etc. comparatively more accurate horoscopes can be prepared 
by using modern method. In these lessons, therefore, our 
emphasis will be more on to the modern method. However 
for the academic interest of the students we will discuss the 
traditional method also at the appropriate time and place. 
But for the present let us proceed with the modern method 
of casting horoscope. 


8.4 Modern Method of Casting Horoscope 


As already mentioned in para 8.3 above it involves or 
consists of two stages, viz: 


(a) calculation of longitude of lagna/Asc 
(b) calculation of longitudes of planets 


We will therefore take up the above two stages one by 
one. 


8.4.1 CALCULATION OF LONGITUDE OF 
LAGNA: We have already discussed in earlier lessons that 
the long. of lagna or the Ascendant is calculated by using 
the Tables of Ascendants which gives the Ascendants rising 
at different latitudes for each 4 minutes interval of Sidereal 
time. Accordingly the Sidereal time of Birth/epoch is very 
important to know the lagna/Ascendant. In lesson 7 we have 
discussed at length how to find out the sidereal time of 


Mathematical Astrology 71 


birth/epoch and we hope that by now our students are well 
conversant with the calculation of sidereal time of the epoch. 
We will now advise our students to proceed as follows to 
calculate the longitude of the lagna or the Ascendant: 


Step I: Calculate the Sidereal time of birth/epoch by 
following the 8 steps given in chapter 6. 


Step 2 : In the book Table of Ascendants by N.C. Lahiri, 
locate the page where Ascendants for the 
appropriate latitude i.e. the latitude of the place 
of the Birth are given. In case table for exact 
latitude is not available, then the other table for 
the latitude which is nearest to the latitude of 
the place of birth could be made use of. In case 
a more precise work is needed, the students may 
find out/calculate the Ascendant at two 
consecutive latitudes falling either side of the 
given latitude & then find out the exact longitude 
by interpolation of the two Ascendants. However 
we feel that in most of cases the calculation of 
Ascendant for the nearest latitude may serve the 
purposes and the interpolation may not be 
necessary. 


Step 3: Calculate the Ascendant/lagna with the help of 
the appropriate Table. 


Step 4: As the table of Ascendants by N.C. Lahiri gives 
the Nirayana longitudes of Ascendants only, it is 
necessary to apply the Ayanamsha correction as 
given at Page 6 of the book to get the correct 
lagna. The above steps can be best explained 
with the help of an example. 


Example 1 : Calculate the longitude of Ascendant/ 
lagna for the Native Born on 20-8-1944 at 8-11-40 at 
Bombay. 


72 


Mathematical Astrology 


DOB = 20-8-1944 at 8 - 11 - 40 Mumbai 


Step 1: 


Step 2: 
Step 3 : 


Step 4: 
Step 5: 
Step 6: 


Step 7: 


Step 8: 


Step 9: 


Step 10: 


Step ll : 


HM §S 
Sidereal Time at 12 Noon 
(on 20m Aug. 1900): 9-52-33 
Correction for the year of birth 
ie., 1944. + 0-1-21 
Correction to Sidereal Time: + 0-0- 6 
as per Ephemeris 2011. (Page 152) 
Sid. Time for 20" August (A) 9-54-00 
1944 at 12 Noon 

HM S 
LS.T. of birth as given 8-11-40 


WARTIME Correction as mentioned©_1-0-0 
at page (V) of Table of Ascendants. 


Corrected I.S.T. of birth 7-11-40 
L.M.T. correction (page 152 of 

Ephemeris 2011) 038-36 
L.M.T at birth 6-33-04 


TI. from Noon (Subtract this 
LMT from 12 hrs (12 0 6-33-04) 5-26-56 
Correction to TI (Table 1V) 


(i) 5 hrs 0-49" + S53 
(ii) 24 mts 0-4™ 
(iii) 2 mts Os (B) 5-27-49 
Being AM birth deduct (B) from (A) 
9-54-00 © 5-27-49 = (C) 4-26-11 
S.T. @ Epoch 


For mumbai, use Ascendant Table 
at page 136 of Ephemeris 2011 


Note: Also at page 7 of current Ephemeris under heading 
"Time reckoning in India". 


Mathematical Astrology 73 


(i) 4" 29" 4s] 5°04’ 
4h 26" 4s] 4°50’ 
1 m (or 60 s) = (+) 14 
(ii) for 4° 26” 4s_] 4°50’ 
14 154 
a 1 => — ] ] —— ——— 
For 11 Sec ao* mn + 02 
Step 12: 4s_14°-52' 


Ayanamsha correction for 1944 (-) 0-0 - 5 
(Page 144 of 2011 Ephemeris) 45-1 4°47’ 
Simha Lagna 14° 47' 


Example 2 : Calculate the Asc or lagna for the native 
of example No. 2 in para 6.3. 


Solution : Referring to example 2 of para 6.3 we get : 
Step 1: Sid. Time of Birth = 11-50-20 (page 57) 


Step 2: The latitude of New York is 40° 43'N 
(This can be noted from the table given at page 
111 of Tables of Ascendants). An appropriate 
table giving the longitude (nearest latitude 41°- 
0' North) is given at page 62. So we use this 
table to calculate the Asc.) 


Step 3: Calculate the lagna or Asc as follows : 
Sidereal Time Ascendant/lagna 
Hh 52" OF 7s 16° 17' 
115 48™ Qs 7 15° 28 
variation in 4 minute = 49' 
(or 240 sec) 


Variation for 
49 
2mts 20secs (or 140 secs) = 549 *140 


= 29" (Appx.) 


74 Mathematical Astrology 


So lagna for 11°50"205 7 15° 28' + 29' 


or 
= 7 15° 57° 

Step 4: Ayanamsha correction 
for the year 2005 =(-) 0° 56’ 
Therefore correct Lagna = 7° 15° Ol’ 


or Ascendant is Scorpio 15° 01' 


EXERCISE - 8 


Question : Students may please choose the places 
situated in northern Hemisphere out of the 10 places given 
in Question of Exercise 6 and work out the longitude of 
lagna/Asc in all those cases. 


CHAPTER 9 


CASTING OF HOROSCOPE II 
MODERN METHOD 


9.1 Calculation of Ascendant for places situated in 
Southern Hemisphere (or the Southern Latitudes) 


The methodology for calculation of lagna/Ascendant 
for places located in Southern hemisphere/southern latitude 
is exactly similar as for Northern latitude, if we have with 
us Tables of Ascendants for Southern Latitudes. The Lahiri's 
tables available to us are for Northern latitude. If the same 
tables are to be used for calculating the Lagna rising in 
places situated in the Southern latitudes, it is but obvious 
that some modification is definitely called for. As such for 
calculating the Lagna in Southern Latitude with the help 
of Tables for Northern Latitude, we have to proceed as 
follows : 


Step 1 : Find out the Sidereal Time of Birth by following 
the eight steps, 1 to 8 given in chapter : 6 as 
done in the case of Northern Latitude. 


Step 2: Add 12 hours to the Sidereal time worked out in 
step 1. Ifthe total Sidereal Time after adding 12 
Hours exceeds 24 hrs., then subtract 24 Hours 
from it, and retain the remainder. The Sidereal 
Time so modified will be called as modified 
Sidereal Time. 


(75) 


16 Mathematical Astrology 


Step 3: Locate the appropriate table for the Latitude of 
the place of birth in the Tables of Ascendants 
for Northern Latitudes. 

Step 4: By using the Modified Sidereal Time worked 
out in step 2 above, calculate the Ascendant in 
the similar way as in chapter 8 using the Table 
located in step 3. 


Step 5: Apply Ayanamsha correction (Page-6) for the 
appropriate year, i.e. the year of birth. 


Step 6: Add 6 Signs to the Ascendant Calculated/worked. 
out in step 5 to get the correct Lagna. If the Asc. 
exceeds J2 signs then subtract 12 signs from it. 


9.2 Students may please note that modification 
incoported above is applied only for the places in Southern 
Latitudes if the Tables of Ascendants used is for Northern 
Latitudes and vice-versa. If the Tables of Ascendants are 
available for the same hemisphere in which the birth has 
taken place, no modification is necessary. Students are also 
advised to read the Example 3 given in the Tables of 
Ascendants for Northern Latitudes by N.C. Lahiri, at page 
- (viii) in the beginning of the book. We will now explain 
the above mentioned 6 steps with the help of an example. 


Example | : Calculate the lagna for the native of 
example no. 3 in chapter 6. (DOB 17-8-2005 TOB 15-25 
hrs. ZST) 

Solution : Place Sydney, Latitude : 33° 52' South 

Step | : Sid. Time of Birth = 13" 12™ 37% (Ref. Example 
3 of Chapter 6) 

Step 2 : By adding 12h we get the modified Sidereal Time 


as 255 12" 375. As it exceeds 24+, deduct 24 hrs. 
Therefore, Modified Sidereal Time = 1° 12" 37%. 


Mathematical Astrology Ti 


Step 3: Latitude of Place of Birth is 33°52'S. Hence use 
the Table for 34°0’N (Page-55) 


Step 4: The Lagna is calculated as under : 


Sidereal Time Lagna @ 
1" 16" 05 38 7° S57 
qh 12™ Os 38 7° 8) 


@ To be corrected 
Variation in 4 Mins. = 49’ 
(or in 240 Secs) 
Therefore, variation in 37 Sec. = 49+240x 37 


= 7.55 

or Say = 8 

Hence Lagna for 1" 12™ 37% = 357°8' + 8! 
= 3°7°16' 


Step 5 : Apply Ayanamsha Correction for 2005 = (-)0° 56’ 
Corrected Lagna in North Latitude 357°16' (~)54' 


= 3°6°22' 
Step 6 : Add 6 signs to get the lagna in Southern Latitude 
= 46° 
Therefore, Lagna or Asc = 96°22! 


Capricorn 6°22' 
Example 2 : Calculate the lagna for the native born on 
14th November 2005 at 4hrs 48mts (ZST) in Lima (Peru). 


Solution : Refer N.C. Lahiri's Table of Ascendant at page 
110 and note birth place i.e. Lima (Peru) and latitudes, 
longitudes, time corrections etc. 
Time Zone (-) 5 hours Latitude 12° 02' south 
Longitude 77° 02' west L.M.T. from ZST(-)8 min 
08 sec. 


LS.T. from Z.S.T. + 10" 30", correction to Indian 
Sidereal Time (+) Imt. 45 secs. 


B Mathematical Astrology 


Step 1 : Sidereal Time of 14 Nov. 1900 h m s 
12 noon at Longitude 82°30East (Page 3) = 15 : 31 : 37 


Step 2 : Correction for the year 2005 

(page 4) =(+)0:2:16 
Step 3 : Correction to I. Sid. Time (P-110) =(+) 0:01 : 45 
Step 4 : Sid. Time of 14th Nov. 2005 of Peru 

at 12 noon (A) = 15 : 35 : 38 


Step 5 :ZST of the birth of native = 4:48:00 
Step 6 : LMT Local Time Comrection (page-110) =(-)0 : 8 : 08 
Step 7: LMT. of birth = 4:39:52 


Step 8 : As it is fore noon birth 
TI. from noon (12 hours(-) 4*39"52") = 7: 20: 08 
Step 9 : Correction to increase the TI. (Page 5) ={+) 01 : 12 
Step 10: Hence the increased TI. (B) = 7:21:20 
Step 11: Being AM. birth (A)-(B) 
(15: 35 : 38 (-) 7: 21 : 20) = 8: 14: 18 
Step 12: The Sidereal time of birth = 8:14: 18 
Step 13: The Latitude indicates the birth place is in southern 
Hemisphere. But the Lahiri's Table of Acendant is for 
Northern latitudes. Therefore the method prescribed in 
para 9.1 is to be used i.e. add 12 hours to the sidereal 
time available at step 12. 
Step 14: Modified Sidereal Time 
12hrs + Bhs 14s 1 gsee = 20: 14: 18 
Step 15: Calculate Ascendant on the basis of Latitude 12°-02' North 
(P-19 of Table of Ascendant), the table is for 12° North, 
which is nearest. The result is as under: 


Mathematical Astrology oP) 


Sidereal Time Ascendant 
Hrs Mts Secs Rasi degree mts 
20 16 00 0 16 36 
20 2 00 0 15 30 
0 04 00 0 1 06' 


Modified S:‘T. of birth = 20 : 14 : 18, which is more 
by 0:2: 18 (20: 14: 18(-) 20: 12 : 00) or 138 secs 
Variation in 4 mins or 240 secs = 66' 


nat 66 9108 
Variation in 138 seconds = 740 x 138 = yn 
= 37.95 
or =38' 
Hence Ascendant is 0/15° 30' + 38' — or 0/16° 08° 
or Mesha = 16° 08' 
Aynamsha correction (P-6) = (-) 0° 56' 


Correct Ascendant Mesha 15° 12' 


Step 16: 12° 2' is Southem Latitude, hence 
add 6 signs to the above (6° + 0/15° 12") = 6/15°-12' 
i.e. Tula Ascendant of 15° 12" 
Step 17: Hence the native born with Tula 15°12' Ascendant. 
EXERCISE - 9 
Calculate the Ascendants for the data given below : 
(a) Jakarta 21-4-1943 5:25 AM (IST) 
(b) Mombasa 11-7-1923 10:30 PM (ST) 
(c) Narobi 17-8-1986 6:24 PM (ZST) 
(d) Canbera 23-4-1972 4:40 PM (ZST) 


(e) Sydney 15-9-1936 3:25 AM (ST) 


CHAPIEFR 10 


CASTING OF HOROSCOPE III 
MODERN METHOD 


10.1 Calculation of Longitudes of Planets/Planetary 
Position at Birth or Graha Spashta 


We have already advised our students to purchase and 
have with them a complete set of Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris 
(Please refer Para 3.13 in Chapter 3). A perusal of these 
Ephemeris reveals that : 


(a) In the yearly Ephemeris e.g. for the year 2001, 
2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 the daily position of all planets 
including the Moon has been given at 5:30 AM (IST). 


(b) In the condensed Ephemeris for the year 1941-51, 
1951-61, 1961-71, 1971-81, 1981-85, 1986-1990, 1991-1995 
& 1996-2000 etc., daily position of Moon has been given 
for 5:30 AM (IST) where as for the remaining Planets except 
Rahu/Ketu, the position has been given at 5:30 AM (IST) 
for every alternate day. Rahu's position has been given for 
Ist of each month for true as well as mean Rahu. 


(c) In the Ephemeris (condensed) for the years 1900 to 
1941, the position have been given for 5:30 PM (IST) daily 
for Moon, twice in a week i.e. for Sundays and Wednesdays 
for Mercury and weekly position i.e. for every Sunday in 
respect of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, and Venus. Rahu's 


(81) 


82 Mathematical Astrology 


position has been given monthly i.e. for 1st of each month. 
The Rahu's position in this Ephemeris is for 'Mean' Rahu 
only and not for 'True' Rahu. True Rahu is by considering 
the actual oval/elliptical shape of orbit of Moon and the 
ecliptic, where as Mean Rahu is calculated by considering 
their orbits as perfect circle. As the later is not factually 
correct we prefer to have only True Rahu in our calculations 
as far as possible. 


10.2 Keeping in view the above three different types 
of data available in the Ephemeris, we propose to discuss 
the calculation of planetary positions in three different parts. 
Accordingly, we will first of all take the Ephemeris for the 
year 2005 and calculate the planetary position for the given 
time of Birth ofa native. It should be noted that the Lahiri's 
Indian Ephemeris gives the position of Planets either for 
5 :30 AM (IST) or 5:30 PM (IST). Accordingly any time of 
Birth whether it is given in LMT or ZST or GMT must be 

first converted to IST so as to use these Ephemeris. 


10.3 Calculation of Planetary Position by using 
Yearly Ephemeris 


The calculation of Planetary position is best explained 
with the help ofan example. However before we take up an 
example it is necessary to advise the students that while 
selecting the two consecutive dates from the ephemeris for 
obtaining the reference position of planets, care must be 
taken to see that the dates should be such so that our date 
and time of birth falls in between the two for convenience 
in interpolation. 


Example 1 : Calculate the planetary position at the 
time of birth of a native at Delhi on Tuesday, the 25 Oct. 
2005 at 09:30 am (IST) [Para 6.3 and para 8.4]. 


Mathematical Astrology 83 


Solution : Use Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris for 2005 we 
will calculate the Moon's position first. 


MOON (Page 34) 
Position at 5:30 AM (IST) on 26/10/05 = =38 19°02'23" 
Position at 5:30 AM (IST) on 25/10/05 = =3°07°09!' 14" 


Motion in 24 hours 0511°53'09" 
Time elapsed from 5:30 AM to 9:30 AM = 4 hours 
Therefore motion in 4 hours 

(1/6th of 24 hourly motion) = 051°58'52" 
Add position at 5:30 AM of 25-10-2005 =3507°09'14" 
Position at Birth = 3509°08'06" 
or Cancer = 9 §8' 


or rounding off we can say position of Moon = Cancer9°8' 


Note : The position at 5:30 AM is indicated in the 7th 
column. The first column gives the dates of the month. 


10.4 The above method of finding out the proportionate 
motion in 4 hours is by simple arithmetic or by using an 
electronic calculator. We can also find out this motion by 
using the log tables given at page (164-165) of the 
Ephemeris. However, as these log tables are proportionate 
and are meant for use with 24 hourly motion. 


Therefore motion of Moon in 24 hours =11° 53' 09" 
Log of motion (i.e. 11° 53' 09" or 11° 53°) 


(page 164) =0.3053 
Log of 4 hours =0.7781 
(Time Interval from 5:30 AM to Birth Time) 

Total =1 0834 


By taking antilog of this we will get the desired motion 
in 4 hours. Since there is no separate table, we have to 
locate the nearest figure to 1.0834 in the table and then read 
the degrees and minutes. We find that antilog of (nearest) 


84 Mathematical Astrology 


1.0865 is 1° 58', and 
1.0828 is 1° 59’ 


Therefore variation of 37 is equal to 1' or 60" 
So variation of 1.0865 GC) 1.0834 ic. 31 will be 


60 
397 * 31 =50.27" 
= 50.27" 
or say = 50" 

Adding this to 1°58' we get 
motion of Moon in 4 hours = 1958'50" 
Adding this to position of Moon at 5:30 AM 
on 25-10-2005 = 3507°09'14" 
Position of the Moon at Birth = 3509°08'04" 
or say = 3509°08' 


10.5 By looking at the above calculation student may 
feel that using logarithms is rather a cumbersome process. 
Actually it is not so. In the above calculations we have tried 
to show to the students that if more precision is required we 
can work out the longitudes of planets upto seconds (") of 
arc by log table also. However in most of the cases, 
calculation of longitudes of planets upto nearest Minute (') 
of arc will suffice or meet our requirement. Therefore we 
need not interpolate the figures while working out the Antilog 
and only the nearest figure will do. In the context of Moon, 
while taking antilog the nearest figure is 1.0828 for which 
antilog is 1°59' and this will meet our requirement. More 
over in the instant example the time interval from 5:30 AM 
to time of birth i.e. 9:30 AM is 4 hours which is a round 
figure and students can easily make 1/6 (of 24 hours motion) 
to get the 4 hours motion. However more often than not, the 
time interval may be like 7 Hrs 21 Min., 11 Hrs 39 Min. 


Mathematical Astrology 85 


and so on. In such cases the use of logarithms will be easier 
and quicker. Students may threfore decide for themselves as 
to which method i. e. the calculator method or the logarithm 
method appears to be the easier one and may adopt the 
same. The whole idea is only to get the proportionate motion 
of planets during the time interval from the given reference 
position to the time of birth. 


10.6 With the above background we can now proceed 
to find out the longitudes of other planets at the time of 
birth. It may further be mentioned here that unless the 
planetary positions are required correct upto seconds (") of 
arc, we may round off the same to the nearest minute (‘) of 
arc by neglecting 30" or less and by adopting next higher 
minute for 31" and above. In the case of remaining planets, 
we have 24" position for each. Our time interval 4° is also 
fixed for all the planets. So we can find out/calculate their 
planetary position simultaneously in one operation in a 
tabular form. (See next page) 


As Ketu is always opposite to RAHU or 6 signs away 
from RAHU, its longitude is calculated by adding 6 signs 
to the longitude of Rahu. Accordingly : 


Longitude of True Rahu = 11° 19° 33! 
Add 6 signs = + 6 
Longitude of Ketu = 17° 19° 33" 
(if it exceeds 12signs, deduct 12 signs) 

' = (-)12' 
Therefore Longitude of Ketu) = 5° 19° 33! 


Students will recall that we had calculated the longitude 
of lagna for this native vide Example 2 of Chapter 8 (Para 
8.4.1) as 7° 15° 01". We can now draw the chart as follows: 


86 Mathematical Astrology 


Calculation of Planetary Position at 09:30 AM (IST) 
25-10-2005 (Example-1, Para 10.3) 


Sun Mercury Venus Mars | Jupiter] Saturn 
(R) 
6 I 


Rahu 
(D) 


Position of 
Planets at 5:30 AM 
IST on (Page 34) 


26-10-2005 *8°43'°57" 70°40! | 7°25°30' 0°25°20'{ — 6°6°2" }5°16°41' 1119933" 
25-10-2005 6°7°44'08" 6°29°22' | 7:24°27' | 0°25°38" | "5°49" 1316938" 11119932" 


Motion in 24 Hrs. 


sel el Doe, ap 


1.3802 1.3590 | 1.9031] 2.0444] 2.6812 
0.7781 0.7781 | 0.7781} 0.7781 | 0.7781 
2.0444 | 2.1371 | 2.68121 2.8225 


2.1584 2.0444 | 2.1170 2.6812 | 2.8573 


Log of Motion 
in 24 Hrs. (P-164) 
Log of Time Interval 
ie. 4 Hrs, 


Nearest figure given 
in the Log Table 
By Taking Antilog 
of above figure 
we get proportion 
Motion in 4 Hrs. 


Add position on 
25-10-2005 


Position at 9:30 AM 
on 25-10-2005 


T Mere 29° 
Sun 7°54" 


Moon 
25-10-2005 9°3' 
09:30 AM Sat 16°38" 
(IST) 
DELHI 


VF Ase SV sun 7°54 
15°01' a 
Ven 


10.7 Students may please note that the position of 
Planets in the heavens is dependent on the date & time only 
and is independent of the place of Birth. The place of birth 
is important for calculating the Rising Sign or Lagna or 


Mathematical Astrology 87 


Ascendant. Before we close this discussion we will take up 
another example to work out the longitude/position of planet. 


Example 2 : Calculate the longitude of Planets for a 
native born at 10:24 PM (IST) on 11 July, 2005. 


Example 3 : Calculate the longitude of planets for a 
native born at 755 PM on 14-2-2005. 


Solution : As the place of birth has not been given we 
can not calculate the lagna. As such only the longitudes of 
planets are required to be calculated. This has been worked 
out in the tabular form in the next pages which are self 
explanatory 


EXERCISE 10 


Question 1 : Calculate the Planetary Position 
(longitudes of Planets) for following dates and time : 


(a) 26-1-2005 01:20 AM (IST) 

(b) 25-12-2005 7:30 PM (ZST) London 

(c) 15-08-2005 7:30 AM (IST) 

(d) 25-04-2005 00:45 AM (ZST) New York 


Note : For (b) & (d) students may refer to Para 10.2. 


Example 2 : Calculation of Planetary Position at 10 : 24 P.M. (IST) (22:24 hrs.) on 11-7-2005 
(Example 2, Page 87) 


2895°49'30" 4°25'56:09" 3°21°51' | 3829°45' | 11826"08" 516°55" ae 29" 
2524°52'16" 4514°00'01" 382102" | 3821°39" 11°95°30" 5816°49" 35°21' 


Position at Ra(R) 


119348" 54" 
11*23°53' 25” 


5.30 AM 12-7-2005 
5.30 AM 11-7-2005 


Mation in 24 Hrs 57-14" 11°56'08" 1-13? o"-o8' | (-) 043i" 
Log Motion in 24 Hrs, 1.4025 0.3034 1.2950 2.2553 2.4594 
Log of Time interval* (16"54") 0.1523 0.1523 F 0.1523 : ; 0.1523 0.1523 
Total 1.5548 0.4557 16205 | 1.4473 1.7309 2.5325 2.4076 2.6U7 
Nearest figure given in Log 15563 0.4559 16143 { 1.4508 1.7270 2.5563 2.3802 2.6812 
table 


Taking anti-log we get 

the motion till time of 
birth 

Add position on 11.7,2005 


(-)0°3" 
11523°53'25" 


0°40' 8°24" 0°35" 0°51" 0°27' 0°! 06’ 
2524°52'16" 4814°00'01" 3821°02' | 3821°32' 11825°30! 5*16°49° 38521" 


2825°92'16" 4° 2292401" 3521°37' 13822923" = 111825°57' 5516°59' 


*Time Interval for all planets from 5 : 30 A.M. to 10: 24 PM. = 16 Hrs 54 Min. 
(R) Means Retrograde i.e. the planet appears to be moving backwards._ 


Position at birth 11°23°50'25" 


Note ; Kelu’s position would be six signs away from Rahu and hence not calculated separately. 
(88) 


Example 3 : Calculation of planelary position for the nalive born on 14-2-2005 at 7.55 p.m. (19.55 Hrs.) (Example 3, Page 87) 


Sun Moon Mer Venus Mars Jup (R) Sat (R) 
So! So! So ' So! So ' S o'° So! 
10 2 29 0 20 54 10 2 55 9 21 32 8 ll 54 5 24 40 

10 1 28 08 5 10 O1 07 9 20 17 8 ll ow 5 24 43 


| 


Position 


5.30 AM — 15-2-2005 
5.30 AM 14-2-2005 


24 brs motion 


Log of 24 hrs Motion 1.3730 3.1584 
+log of Time interval* 0.2213 0.2213 
14h 25 min 


Total 
Nearest figure given in Log 
table 


1.5943 1.3462 1.5046 1.7462 2.9025 
15902 1.3454 15051 1.7434 2.8573 


0°37' 7°42! 1° 5 0°45 0°26" (-)0° 2 (-)0°02" 
10 1 28 08 5 10 01 07 09 20 17 8 1111] 5 24 43 227 37 


ee oe 10" 2° 12 | gas giege’ | 811° 37" | 18 24° 41" | 2° 27° 35! 


*The interval for all planets from 5.30 A.M. to 19.55 Hrs = 14.25 


Taking anti-log we get 

the motion till time of 
birth 

Add position on 14.2.2005 


(+)0°0!" 
0.00 39 


Position at Birth 0° 00° 40° 


(89) 


cuapter 11 
CASTING OF HOROSCOPE IV 
MODERN METHOD 


11.1. Calculation of Planetary Position (Longitudes 
of Planets) by Using Condensed Ephemeris for the Years 
1941 to 2000. 


The methodology discussed in this lesson is applicable 
to the Ephemeris for all the years between 1941 to 2005 where 
daily position of Moon & Mercury and alternate day position 
for other Planets Except Rahu have been given. For Rahu 
position at the First day of each month has been given. 

Example 1 : Calculate the longitudes of Planets at 
4: 40 AM (IST) on 21-02-1943 

Solution : Students are advised to open Pages 22 and 23 
of the condensed Ephemeris for the years 1941-51. On page 
22 the Nirayana longitude of Moon at 5:30 AM (IST) has 
been given for each day forthe whole year 1943. On pages 23 
to 25 interval of two days position of Planets Saturn, Jupiter, 
Mars, Sun and Venus and 3™ day position of Mercury also 
has been given. On page 26, second column of the 2™ table, 
position of true Rahu has been given for | st of each Month. 
Students may please now open Pages 96-97 and 98. On page 
96-97 a table of Proportional logarithms has been given which 


1) 


92 Mathematical Astrology 


is identical to the table used by us for any current years’ 
Ephemeris. On page 98 another Table for proportional log 
has been given. This has again been divided into two parts. 
One part deal with all Planets other than Mercury and Moon 
wh :reas the other part is for Mercury and Moon only. This is 
due to the fact that for Moon, the 24 hourly (daily) motion is 
available from the Ephemeris whereas for other planets 
(2 Days) motion is available. In these tables (Page 98) Prop 
log have been given for each half an hour or 30 minutes 
interval from 00.00 AM to 12:00(Midnight). Any time which 
falls in between any 30 minutes interval, its logrithm is to be 
worked out by interpolation. This will become clear to stu- 
dents as we proceed with our Example. 


In the example under consideration the date given 
(21.2.1943) falls within the war Time period. Hence any time 
given is to be reduced by one hour (Refer Para 6.4.2) unless it 
is stated that the birth time given is after war time correction. 


Therefore Given time = 4:40 AM (IST) 
Less one Hour for wartime = 1:00 
corrected Time = 3:40 AM (IST) 


Date given is 21-2-1943. From Page 22 of the Ephemeris 
we find that nearby dates are given as 20 and 22 February. 
This suits us very well as we must select the two reference 
dates in such a way that our given date & time falls in between 
the two selected dates. So in our example with reference to 
Prop log table at page 98, the 20 Feb will refer the column 
"Given date", 21 February will refer to column "second day" 
and the 22 February will refer to column "Next given date". 
As our date of Birth is 2] February, it has a reference to sec- 
ond day. So we have to findthe Prop. logarithm for 3:40 AM 
(IST) from the column "Second Day” as follows : 


Mathematical Astrology 93 


Time Log 
3:30AM 0.3388 
4:00 AM 0.3291 


Because variation in 30 Mins = (-) 0097 

Therefore variation in 10 Min = (-) 0032 

Therefore Log of 3:40 AM = 0.3388 - 0.0032 
= 0.3356 


This proportionate log of time (3:40 AM) worked out 
above is applicable for Planets other than Mercury and Rahu. 
We can now calculate proportionate log of time (3:40 AM) 
for Mercury also as follows : 


Time Log 

3:30 AM = 0.0378 
4:00 AM = 0.0280 
Variation in 30 Minutes = (-) 0.0098 


Therefore variation in 10 Mins= (-) 0.0033 

Therefore Log of 3 :40 A.M. - 0.0378 (-) 0.0033 

or = 0.0345 

We can now proceed to calculate the Position of planets 
as given in the Tabular Form on the page 26 which is self 
explanatory. 

To calculate the position of Rahu proceed as follows : 

On 1 -2-1943 (Page 20) =4°1° 54' 

On 1-3-1943 (Page 20) = 4° 1° 56' 


Motion of True Rahu in 28 days. = (+) 2' 

Therefore motion in 20 days = (2+28)x20 
= 14 

or say =T 


94 Mathematical Astrology 


Therefore Rahu's position on 21-2-1943 (+) 

at 5:30 AM = 4° 1° 55' 

Since the movement of Rahu is very slow (2' in 28 days) 
in the instant case, the position at 3:40 AM may be taken 
same as at 5:30 AM. For position of Ketu add 6 signs. So 
longitude of Ketu=108 1° 55' 

Note : See the next page for the chart. (page 96) 

Example 2. Calculate the position on the planets (long. 
of Planets) at 10-25 P.M. (ZST) on 11-7-75 at Washington 
DC.. 

Solution. As we have Ephemeris which gives planetary 
longitudes with reference to IST only, we have to convert the 
time given in ZST to IST. We therefore refer to Page 111 of 
table of Ascendants where correction for IST from ZST for 
Washington D.C. has been given as (+) 10h30m 


ZST at Washington D.C. = 10:25 PM on 11-7-75 
or =22:25 Hrs on 11-7-75 
Correction for IST = (+) 10:30 Hrs 
Therefore IST = 32.55 Hrs on 11-7-75 
or =8:55 AM on 12-7-75 


Students can now work out the Planetary position for 
8:55 AM (IST) on 12-7-75 following the methodology given 
in Example 1 above. 


Mathematical Astrology 


EXERCISE 11 
Question 1 : Calculate the Planetary Position (Longi- 
tude of Planets) for the following dates, time & place : 


(a) 5:25 AM (IST) 
(b) 9:13 PM (LMT) 
(c) 1:27 PM (ZST) 
(d) 1:27 AM (GMT) 
(e) 3:40 PM (ZST) 


25-10-1961 
15-05-1954 
23-03-1944 
05-07-1972 
09-06-1980 


95 


Delhi 
Meerut, UP 
Sidney 
Tokyo 
England 


Example I 
Calculation of longitudes of Planets at 3:40 A.M. (IST) on 21.2.1943 (Refer Page 93) 


1512°45' 2522°38' | 8526°08" | 1059°26' 


Position at 5:30 A.M. (IST) on 


22-2-1943 
21-2-1943 


4816957 
9511°03] 44°44! 


1512°42' 2522°45' | 8524°39' | 1057°25" 


20-2-1943 


12°13! 
0.2933 
0.0345 


Motion in 2 days/24 Hrs. 
Log of Motion (p. 96) 


Log of 3:40 A.M. (p. 93 ibid) 
(Calculated earlier) 


1.3733 


3.0168 2.6489 1.5446 


Total 1.4112 


Nearest figure in p.96/97 3.1584 2.6812 1.5456 1.4102 1.3730] 0.3278 
Antilog (motion till birth) or! (-) 0°3!' 0°41' 0°56! 1°9' eb ee ee ee 
Add position on Ref, Date 20.2.1943 1812°42" 2822°45' } 8824939" | 1087°25' 1180°07') 9811°03'} 484°44" 


Position at Birth 


(3:40 A.M. IST on 21.2.1943) 


1812°43' 2822°42' | 8525°20' | 1088°21' 9812°044 4516°O1' 


(96) 


CHAPTER, 12 


CASTING OF HOROSCOPE V 
MODERN METHOD 


12.1. Calculation of Planetary Position (Longitudes 
of Planets) by Using Condensed Ephemeris for the Years 
1900-1941 


The methodology discussed in this lesson is similar to 
that discussed in chapter 11 with slight modification and is 
applicable to the condensed ephemeris for the year 1900 to 
1941 where daily position of the "Moon" at 5:30 PM (IST), 
position of "Mercury" at 5:30 PM (IST) for every sunday 

"and Wednesday, position of the other Planets at 5 : 30 P.M. 
(IST) for every Sunday and position of "Mean Rahu" for 1st 
day of each month at 5:30 PM has been given. The use of this 
condensed Ephemeris is explained by an example as follows : 

12.2 Example : Calculate the Planetary Position (longi- 
tude of Planets) for the Birth particulars given below : 

Date : 26 May, 1928; Time : 10:30 PM (22-30 hrs) 
(ZST); Place : New York City (USA) 

Solution : . 

Step 1 : From Page 111 of tables of Ascendant it may be 
seen that New York falls in the Eastern Time Zone and the 
Indian Standard Time is 10’2hrs advance of the normal stand- 
ard Time of the Zone. However as the date is 26 May the date 
falls in the period when summer Time or Day light saving is 


07) 


98 Mathematical Astrology 


in vogue and during which period clocks are advanced by 
one hour. Hence the recorded time during this period is to be 
reduced by 1 hr to get the correct zonal standard time of Birth 
(ZST). 

Therefore correct ZST of Birth=9:30 PM (21-30 hrs.) 

Step 2 : Convert the corrected ZST of Birth to IST by 
applying the correction given on Page 111 of tables of As- 
cendants for New York which is =(+) 10*5 : 30", 

Therefore corrected ZST of Birth 

= 21's 30™5 on 26-05-1928 


IST from ZST = 218-305 (+) 10!8:30 
Therefore IST of Birth = 32 hrs on 26-05-1928 
or = 08:00 AM on 27-5-1928 


As such for the purpose of calculating the longitudes of 
Planets (Planetary position) for the given Birth particulars the 
time of Birth will be taken as 8:00 AM (IST) on 27-5-1928. 

Step 3 : First of all we will work out the position of 
Moon as daily positions are available for Moon. The Planetary 
Position for 1928 AD have been given on page 58-59 of the 
Ephemeris. However the Nirayana longitudes of Moon for 
5:30 PM every day are given starting from every Sunday. 
Hence 27 May 1928 was a Sunday. As such our time 08:00 
AM (IST) is on Sunday. Since position of Moon is daily for 
5:30 PM (IST) we can take the reference positions on Saturday 
and Sunday so that our Time 08:00 AM (IST) falls (26-5-28) 
between 5:30 PM on Saturday & 5:30 PM on Sunday. 

Position of Moon at 5:30 PM 

On Sunday 27-5-1928 4s 26° 04! 

On Saturday 26-5-1928 4s 13° 30! 

Therefore Motion in 24 hours = 12° 34! 


Mathematical Astrology 99 


Time interval from 5:30 PM on Saturday (26-5-1928) to 
08:00 AM on Sunday (27-5-1928) = 14 h 30 mins. 

Now using the Prop logarithm table at P-118 and 119 of 
the ephemeris we get: 

Log of Motion in 24 hrs. i.e. log of 12° 34' 


= 0.2810 
Log of Time Interval 14h30m = 0.2188 
Total = 0.4998 
Nearest Figure in log table = 0.4994 
Anti log of 0.4994 = 7° 36' 


Add this to the position of Moon at 5:30 PM on Saturday 

the 26-5-1928, we get the position of Moon at Birth 
= 48 13° 30'+ 7° 36' 

or = 4521° 06' 

Step 4 : Next we work out the position of Mercury. On 
Page 58 the position of Mercury has been given for 5:30 PM 
(IST) for Wednesday the 23-5-1928 and the following Sunday 
ie. 27-5-1928. As our date and time falls in between these 
two dates, these dates will meet our requirement. So let us 
note down the required motion of i.e., 23-5-28 at 5:30 PM to 
27-5-28 upto 8:00 AM (3 days-14-30"). 

Position of Mercury at 5:30 PM (IST) 

On 23-5-1928 1$29° 25' 

On 27-5-1928 = 255° 15! 
5° 50' = (5x 60)+50 =350' 


motion in 4 days 


Therefore motion in 

3 days + 14°30" = 350 x 86.5 hrs + 96 
or say = 315' or 5° 15' 
Adding this to the Position on 23-5-1928 

we get the position on 27-5-1928 = 2s 4° 40! 


100 Mathematical Astrology 


Important Note : The position of Mercury worked out 
by us for 27-5-1928 does not agree with the position shown 
in the Ephemeris which is 2° 5° 15' since it is for 5:30 PM. 
This is due to the fact that no Planet keeps a uniform rate of 
motion. We have therefore found the position of Mercury on 
two consecutive Sundays in order to use the prop logarithm 
table given on page 120 of the Ephemeris which is from Sun- 
day to next Sunday. Students will appreciate that had we taken 
the position ofmercury for 27-5-1928 for use of table at page 
120, the final position being calculated by us would have 
become incorrect and the purpose of giving the position of 
Mercury for two days in a week i.e. for every Sunday and 
Wednesday in the Ephemeris by N.C. Lahiri would have been 
defeated. In case Wednesday position was not given in the 
Ephemeris, we have no option but to take the position for 
20-5-1928 and 27-5-1928 only. The idea behind all this is to 
make use of the data given to work out the longitude as correct 
as possible. 


Step 5 : Now we can proceed to calculate the position of 
Planets as given in the Tabular form on page 101 which is 
self explanatory. 


EXERCISE 12 

Question 1. Work out the Planetary positions (long of 
Planets) for the following birth dates : 

Date Time Place 

(a) 25-10-1918 5:25AM (ST) Delhi 

(b) 15-5-1921 9:13 PM (LMT) Meerut (UP) India 

(c) 23-3-1940 1:27PM (ZST) _ Sidney 

(d) 5-7-1911 1:27 AM (GMT) Tokyo 

(e) 9-6-1901 3:40 PM (ZST) England 


Mean Rahu* 


rosiuon at 5:30 P.M. 


27-5-1928 723°45' | 0°5°32' | 1t81s°o9} 1813°05" 153°32" 255° 15! Refer page 59 of the 
20-5-1928 724°14 [ 04°01 1189°53"| —-156°21' ¢ 0524957 | 1524°29" Ephemeris at the bottom 
Position at 5: 30P.M. 
1-5-1928 me. 119923" 
Log of Motion in 7 days 
(page 118, 119) 1.6960 | 1.1993 0.6587 0.5520 0.4466 0.3481 1-6-1928 = 1516°43' 


Log of 8.00 A.M. (IST) on Motion in3 1 days 


Sunday (Page 120) 0.0253 | 0.0253 0.0253] 0.0253 | 0.0253 0.0253 = 1939'= 99' 
26 days = 1°23' = 83' 

Total 1.7213 

Nearest Figure (P. 118, 119) 1.7270 Position at 5 30 P.M. 

Antilog (~)0°27' (IST) on 26-5-1928 = 1516°59* 

Add Position on 20.5.1928 72acrat'| o84°or' | riSo9%s3'f  156°21' | 0524°S7 | 1524°29" 

By adding we get the 7523947 | 85°27 1 11814°si'P 1512°42' | 153°03" 254°38' | Motion in 24 Hrs == 3' 


Position at Birth Motion in 14 Hrs 30 Min. 


Position ofRahu at Birth 
= 1516°S7' 
(1816°59' - 2’) 

Position of Ketu nt Birth 
= 7 10°S7 


* As calculated and not given in the Ephemeris. 
(R) mean Retrograde i.e. the Planet appears to be moving backward. Hence “motion for the moment" is deducted 


01) 


CHAPTER 13 


CASTING OF HOROSCOPE VI 
MODERN METHOD 


13.1 Students by now would have acquired sufficient 
proficiency in working out the lagna or the Ascendent or the 
sign Rising on the Eastern Horizon of Place at the given Epoch, 
irrespective of the place falling either in the Northern or South- 
ern hemisphere of the world/earth. Similarly the students 
would have by now practiced and acquired adequate know- 
how in calculating the Planetary positions (longitudes of 
Planets in the Zodiac) at the given moment of birth or any 
other epoch irrespective of the fact to which year, part or 
country of the world it pertains to. We have dealt with the 
above subjects exhaustively in the 5 (Five) chapters preceding 
this chapter. The casting of horoscope or preparation of amap/ 
chart of heavens at the time of Birth of a native is complete 
after the above details are worked out. However, the Hindus 
have yet another Astrological tool/Equipment in addition to 
transit or Gochara, which is Novel in its own way and is unique 
to "Hindus ", without which it will be difficult to time the 
event to any accuracy. This is known as Dasha system and 
one cannot remain but marvel the wisdom of our ancient 
Sages, Saints, Maharishis who were the past masters of this 
divine science called Astrology. 


(103) 


104 Mathematical Astrology 


13.2 Mahirishi Parashar in his Brihat Parashara Hora 
Shastram has narrated about 40 types of different dasha sys- 
tems. However, the Pride of the place has been given to the 
" Vimshottari Dasha System ". The casting of horoscope is not 
treated as complete unless it is supported by a proper Dasha 
System. We therefore propose to acquaint our students with 
the Vimshottari Dasha system through this lesson. As regards 
other Dasha systems, those are beyond the scope & purview 
of the Jyotish Praveen course and as the students advance in 
their study of Astrology they will come to know and lear 
some of these Dasha systems also in due course of time. 

13.3 Vimshottari Dasha System 


This is one of the many Dasha systems given to us by 
our sages for correct divination and timing of events of a 
nativity. In Vimshottari Dasha system the full span of life of a 
person is considered to be 120 yrs. Each of the nine planets 
with which we are concermed in the study of Hindu Astrology 
has been allotted certain years to make up the total as 120 
years. Students will recall that while discussing the subject of 
Nakshatra vide para 3.8 Supra, we had indicated the No. of 
Years allotted to each Planet in the Vimshottari Dasha system. 
We reproduce these below for easy reference of the students : 


1. KETU 7 Years 6.RAHU 18 Years 
2. VENUS 20 Years 7. JUPITER 16 Years 
3. SUN 6 Years 8. SATURN 19 Years 
4. MOON 10 Years 9. MERCURY 17 Years 
5. MARS 7 Years TOTAL 120 Years 


Students will do well to remember the order and the term 
allotted to each planet in Vimshottari Dasha Systems as men- 
tioned above. 


Mathematical Astrology 105 


13.4 Janma Rashi 

Each of the twelve signs of the Zodiac is known as Rashi. 
However in Hindu Astrology the term Rashi has a different 
meaning also. The Rashi/or sign occupied by the Moon at the 
time of birth of a native is known as his Janma Rashi or simply 
as Rashi. If someone says that my rashi is Leo, it means that 
at the time of his birth the Moon was in Leo Rashi. 

13.5 Janma Nakshatra 

Similar to Janma Rashi, we have another concept known 
as Janma Nakshatra. At the time of birth of a native, the Moon 
must occupy one or the other of the 27 Nakshatras. The 
Nakshatra so occupied by the Moon at the time of a birth of 
the native is known as his Birth-star, Birth-Constellation 
or the Janma Nakshatra. If some one says that his Birth star 
is Poorva Phalguni it means that at time of his birth, the Moon 
was transiting through the asterism of Poorva Phalguni. 

13.6 The Basis of Vimshottari Dasha System 

The basis of Vimshottari Dasha System is the Birth star 
of the Native. Students will recall that each Planet has been 
given the lordship over 3 stars. Therefore the nine Planets 
have lordship over the 27 stars/Nakshatras (refer para 3.8 
Supra) Accordingly the planet who has the lordship over the 
Janma Nakshatra of the native will have the First term or the 
First Period in the Vimshottari Dasha system for that native. 
The other lords (planets) will follow one after the other in the 
cyclic order mentioned in Para 13.3 above. 

13.7 Calculation of Vimshottari Dasha Balance at 
Birth of a native. 

Students are aware that each Nakshatra extends to 13 °20' 
of the arc of the zodiac. These 13°20’ (or 13 x 60 + 20=800') 
are equated to the number of years allotted to the Nakshatra 


106 Mathematical Astrology 


Lord. As such depending on the longitude of Moon at birth, 
we can work out the degrees or minutes of arc of zodiac yet 
to be covered by the Moon in that star. Equating the full ex- 
tent of a star ie. 800' of arc to the full term of span (period) 
granted to the lord of Nakshatra in the Vimshottari Dasha, we 
can work out by simple rule of 3, the balance period equal to 
the balance of star yet to be covered by the Moon. These 
calculations can be best understood with the help of a practi- 
cal example. 


13.8. Example.:In the example I of Para 10.3 we worked 
out the longitude of the Moon as 35-9°-8'. From the table given 
in the Para 3.8 (Sl. No. 8) we know that the Moon is in Pushya 
Nakshatra which extends from Karka 3°20' to Karka 16°40'. 
Since at the time of birth of native the Moon had already 
covered 9°-8' (-) 3°20' =5°-48' or 348' of the total 800' of 
Pushya Star, the balance of Pushya star yet to be covered by 
the Moon will work out to 800'-348'=452' 


Dasha Period of 800' of Pushya Star 
whose Lord Saturn is = 19 Yrs. 


_ 452x19 


So 452' of Pushya will be 
800 


= 10 Yrs 8 Months 24 Days 14 Hrs 24 Min. 

As the lord of birth star Pushya is Saturn, the first period 
of Vimshottari Dasha will be that of the Saturn. Hence we 
say: 

Vimshottari Dasha balance at Birth is that of Saturn = 
10 Yrs 8 Months 24 Days 14 Hrs. 24 Min or Say= 10 Yrs 8 
Months 25 Days. 


Mathematical Astrology 107 


Alternatively : 

We can work out the Dasha balance with the help of 
Tables given at Page 116 and 117 of Lahiri Indian Ephemeris 
for the year 2011 as follows : 

Longitude of Moon at Birth = Karkata 9°-8' under column 
5 on page 114 and against 9° the following Dasha Balance 
has been given: 

Long. of Moon Balance of Saturn 

ge 10” 11™39 (A) 

The long of Moon at Birth is 9°-8' which is more by 8' 
from 9°. We also know that as the longitude of Moon increases, 
the balance of Nakshatra to be traversed by the Moon will 
decrease and consequently the Dasha Balance will decrease. 
We can therefore deduct the Proportional part for 8' from (A). 

From the table of Proportional part for Dashas given at 
the bottom of Page 117 of the ephemeries for 2011 under 
column (9) of Saturn, we get the Proportional parts as under: 

For 8' = 2months 8 days (B) 

Now deducting (B) from (A) we get 
10¥ 11™ 34 — 2™ gd 

= 10% 8" 254 
EXERCISE 13 

Questions : Work out the Vimshottari Dasha balance at 

Birth in respect of ; 


(a) 5 cases in exercise 12 
(b) 5 cases in exercise 11 
(c) 4 cases in exercise 10 


CHAPTER 14 


CASTING OF HOROSCOPE VII 
MODERN METHOD 


14.1 Major and Sub Periods of Vimshottari Dasha 
System 


Students have seen that the dasha of planets run into sev- 
eral years ranging from 6 years for Sun to 20 years for Venus. 
With the periods running to as long as 20 years, it will not be 
possible to give the precise timing of an event. It is of no use 
to tell the father of a daughter of marrigeable age that from 
the next month your daughter is to run the dasha of Venus so 
in that dasha she will get married as Venus is the karaka for 
marriage. As Venus dasha has to run for 20 years, the daugh- 
ter of the consulter will definitely get married during these 20 
long years if the marriage is promised in the horoscope. There- 
fore in order to time the events more precisely our sages have 
divided these dashas-mahadashas (called as Major period) into 
antardashas (Sub period), pratyantar dashas (Sub-Sub peri- 
ods) sookshma dashas (Sub-Sub-Sub period) and Prana 
Dashas (Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub periods) 


14.2 Antar Dashas or Sub-Periods 


In the mahadasha (Major period), of each planet, all the 
nine planets will have their antardashas (sub periods). The 


(109) 


110 Mathematical Astrology 


first antardasha period belongs to the same planet whose 
mahadasha is divided into antardasha. For example in the 
mahadasha of Sun, the Ist antardasha will belong to Sun and 
the subsequent antardashas will follow the same cycle order 
of dasha system given in Para 13.3 Supra. The period allotted 
to the lord of each antardasha will be in the same proportion 
as the antardasha lord has been allotted in the Vimshottari 
Dasha system of 120 years, say for example we want to know 
how much will be the antardasha of Moon in the mahadasha 
of Venus, we can find it out by the following method: 


In 120 years system Moon has 10 years 
so in 20 years (Venus) period it will have 


_ 10 0 
= Top * years 


= 1.667 years 
or =1 year 8 months 


By following the above simple mathematical calculation, 
we can calculate all the nine antardasha of any mahadasha. 
However a ready made table of these antardashas and 
pratyantar dasas for all the nine mahadashas is available at 
page 115 to 124 of Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris for 2011 which 
may be used by the students with advantage. 


14.3 The same principle as discussed in para 14.2 above 
is applicable to the pratyantar dashas (Sub-Sub periods) under 
any antardasha. Similarly, we may work out all the sookshma 
dashas (Sub-Sub-Sub periods) under any pratyantar dasha and 
also prana dashas (Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub periods) under any 
sookshma dashas. This way the time periods is reduced to 
few hours and minutes only for attempting accurate and precise 
timing of events by experienced and learned Astrologers. 


Mathematical Astrology I1k 


However for the purpose of this course, working out the 
mahadasha and antardashas i.e. Major period and Sub-periods 
only will suffice as further minute divisions are beyond the 
scope of this course. 


14.4 How to work out present Mahadasha and 
Antardasha operating on a native 


Suppose a native is born with a dasha balance of Mars 
as 3 years-8 months-12 days and his date of birth is 14-3- 
2002. His present dasha can be calculated as under : 


Mars Dasha already passed = 7 Yrs (-) 3¥ 8M 12° 
= 3° 03™ 18? 

From the table given at page 115 of Lahiri Ephemeris 
for 2011, we see that the sub-period of Saturn in Major Period 
of Mars ends after 3 years 6 months. Hence balance of Saturn 
sub period at Birth =3 years 6 months (-) 3 y 3m 18 days 

=0 yrs 2 months 12 days 

We can now proceed as follows : 


Y MD 

Date of Biuth of native = 2002-03-14 
In Mars Dasha, Balance of Saturn = 0-02-12 
.. Antar Dasha of Saturn 

(Mars/Sat) ends = 2002-05-26 
Antardasha of Mercury = 0-11-27 
End of Mars/Merc = 2003-05-23 
Antardasha of Ketu 0-04-27 
End of Mars/Ketu = 2003-10-20 
Antardasha of Venus 7 1-02-00 
End of Mars/Ven = 2004-12-20 


Antardasha of Sun = 0-04-06 


112 Mathematical Astrology 


End of Mars/Sun = 2005-04-26 
Antardasha of Moon = 0-07-00 
End of Mars/Moon = 2005-11 -26 


So we can say the native was running antar dasha of 
Saturn in Mars upto 26th May, 2002, thereafter Mercury upto 
23rd May, 2003, Ketu upto 20-10-2003, Venus upto 20-12- 
2004, Sun upto 26-4-2005 & lastly antara of Moon upto 26- 
11-2005. 

As the Antardasha of Moon in Dasha of Mars is last, 
with the end of Mars/Moon, the Mars Dasha itself will be 
over. The next dasha (major period) i.e. of Rahu will start 
w.e.f.26.11.2005. 


EXERCISE 14 


Question : Please work out the present Dasha and Antar 
Dasha running in the case of following : 


(a) All the 10 cases mentioned at serial (a) and (b) of 
exercise 13. 


CHAPTER IS 


CASTING OF HOROSCOPE VIII 
TRADITIONAL METHOD 


15.1 Traditional Method 


In the previous chapters (from 8 to 14) we have seen and 
discussed the modern method of casting the horoscope. The 
casting of horoscope mainly involves calculation of the Lagna 
or Ascendant at the given moment, calculation of planetary 
positions (longitudes of the planets at the moment of birth) 
and working out the Vimshottari dasha for the native. We will 
now deal with these three aspects of casting the horoscope by 
traditional method. However, now a days with the advent of 
Modern Ephemeris, Table of Ascendants, Universal Tables 
of houses, calculators, computers etc., the traditional method 
appears to have lost its glory primarily owing to non- 
availability of standard Panchangas or Almanacs. The basis 
of calculation of graha-spashta (planetary position) and dasha 
balance, etc. is the Panchanga only in the traditional system 
of casting the horoscope. It will not be out of place to say that 
even to some extent the accuracy of the lagna calculated 
depends on the Panchanga from where the longitude of the 
Sun at the time of Sunrise on the day of birth of a native is 
taken. We therefore don't propose to deal with the subject in 
an elaborate way and will discuss it more from the academic 


(113) 


114 Mathematical Astrology 


point of view rather than from the angle of its practical 
application. 


15.2 We have already stated in earlier chapters that a 
Hindu day begins with the sunrise and ends with the next 
sunrise. The duration of the Hindu day is taken as 60 Ghatis, 
the '0' Ghati starting at the time of sunrise at that place. 
Accordingly measurement of time starts from time of sunrise 
ie. "0" ghatis. The interval from the time of Sunrise to the 
time of birth is called Ishtakaal. This Ishtakaal is very 
important factor in casting the horoscope by traditional 
method. All calculations viz. Lagna, Graha spashta, Dasha 
etc. are based on this /shtakaal only. 


15.3 Rashimaan 


Students will recall that we had earlier also discussed 
the term Rashimaan vide Para 2.13. The Rashimaan is also 
known as the time of oblique Ascensions. As discussed earlier 
this is the duration of time taken by each of the twelve signs 
of zodiac to rise through its 30° on the eastern horizon ofa 
place. The Rashimaans differ from Rashi to Rashi as well as 
from latitude to latitude. The Rashimaan is computed in 
Sayana system i.e. to say it is computed for the signs of Sayana 
or moveable zodiac. The unit of measurement of Rashimaan 
is Asu where |] Asu is equal to 4 seconds or 6 Asus is equal to 
24 seconds or | Pal (Vighati). The rising periods of Sayana 
Rashis at equator are as follows : 

Asus  Vighati Hours 


Aries Virgo Libra Pisces 1674 279 Ihr 51m 36 sec 


Taums Leo Scorpio Aquarius = 1795 299.17 hr 59m 40 sec 
or 299 


Gemini Cancer Sagittarius Capricom 1931 321.83 2hr 8m 44 sec 
or 322 


15 Mathematical Astrology 


In order to calculate the time of oblique Ascension or 
Rashimaan on other latitudes, the Ascensional differences or 
charkhandas are added to/substracted from the Rashi Maan 
for the equator. The table for these charkhandas have been 
given by Dr.B.V. Raman in his book A manual of Hindu As- 
trology at page 161 (Table 1). For places in Northern Hemi- 
sphere, these charkhandas are deducted from Rashimaan at 
equator for Aries to Gemini and Capricorn to Pisces and added 
for Cancer to Sagittarius. This addition and substraction is 
reversed in case of places situated in the southern latitudes. 
Thus with the help of table of charkhandas, we can calculate 
the Rashimaan for any place on earth. For example we will 
workout the Rashimaan for Delhi. The charkhandas for Delhi 
(latitude 28° 39'N) (rounded off to nearest whole Pal) are as 
follows : 65, 52, 22. 


Rashi — Rashi Charkhandas Rashi Rashi Maan at Delhi 
Maan at for Delhi Maan at Ghati = Pal 


Equator (Pal) Delhi 

(Pal) (Pal) 
Aries 279 -65 =214 3 34 
Taurus 299 -52 =247 4 07 
Gemini 322 -22 =300 5 00 
Cancer 322 +22 =344 5 44 
Leo 299 +52 =351 5 51 
Virgo 279 +65 =344 5 44 
Libra = 279 +65 =344 5 44 
Scorpio 299 +52 =351 5 51 
Sagittari 322 +22 =344 5 44 
Capricorn 322 -22 =300 5 00 
Aquarius 299 -52 =247 4 07 
Pisces 279 -65 =214 3 34 
Total 3600 60 00 
Pal Ghati Pal 


116 Mathematical Astrology 


15.4 Calculation of Lagna at Delhi 
Let us calculate Lagna for a native born at Delhi on 25- 
3-2010 at Lla.m. (ST) 
Solution : Note the Time of Sunrise = 6:24 a.m. 
(page 55 of V.V. Panchaynga) 
Time of Birth =11:00 a.m. 


Therefore Ishta Kaal =11:00 (-)6:24 
(Diff. between sunrise and Birth time) 
= 4 Hrs. 36 Min. 


Converting it into Ghati-Pal 

we get the Ishtakaal as : 11 Ghati 3 0 Pal (A) 
Nirayana longitude of Sun at time of 

Sunrise (page 42 of V.V. Panchanga) = 1 1810°13'57" 


Add Ayanamsha = + 24° 00' 14" 
Therefore Sayana Sun = 1284° 14°11" 
Or = 084° 14' 


It means at '0' Ghati 4°14' of Aries (Mesha) had already 
passed and (30°(-)4°-14") i.e., 25°-46' (or 25.7°) were yet to 
pass : 

If 30° of Aries take =214 Pal 


(See Table of Rashi Maan at page 105 ibid) 
Then 25.7° will take = (214/30) x 25.7 Pal 
= 183 pal or3 ghati 3 Pal 
or 3 Ghati 03 pal. 
Therefore Aries period balance 
3 Gh 03 Pal 
Taurus period = 4 Gh 07 Pal 
Total = 7 Gh10 Pal 


| 


Mathematical Astrology W7 


Gemini period 5 Gh 00 Pal 


Total = 12 Gh 00 Pal 

It means at the time of birth of native sayana Gemini was 
rising and 

(shta Kaal-Upto Taurus Period) i.c., A©@B 

11 Gh 30 Pal (-) 7 Gh 10 Pal = 4 Gh/20 Pal (or 260 Pal) 
of Sayana Gemini had passed. 


Now 300 Pal of Gemini = 30° 


So 260 Pal of Gemini = (30/300) x 260 
= 26° 

Therefore Sayan Lagna was = 2526° 

Less Ayanamsha = (-) 24°0'1 4" 

Nirayana Lagna = 2s 1° 59' 46" 

or Lagna = Gemini 1° 59" 


155 Calculation of Planetary Position 


(A) Moon : (From Panchanga for Delhi using Vishwa 
Vijay Panchang of Pt. Hardeo Sharma published from Solan, 
Himachal Pradesh for the year 2010-2011) 


Entered Cancer (Karaka) 29'-03™ on 24-3-2010 
(Wednesday) or at 05-03 Hrs. (ST) on 25th March, 2010 
(Thursday) 


Entered Leo (Simha) at 6-43 Hrs on 27th March, 2010 
(Saturday). 


Time taken to transit through Cancer (Karaka). 


= 244.00" 

(6) 5%03" 

= 1gh57m +24 +06"-43™ = 49.49" 
(25-3-2010)  (26-3-2010) (27-3-2010) 


Time Interval from 
05.03 of 25-3-2010 to 25-03-2010 at 11:00 = 54-57" 


eee 


118 Mathematical Astrology 


In 49"40™ moon transits 30° of Cancer (Karka) 


so in 5657 it will transit 
30° 
= ————_—_- x 05"-57 
4940 


357 
= 30° x —____ = 3° 35' 38" 
2980! 


Therefore longitude of Moon at birth 
= Cancer (Karka) 3° 35' 38" 

Hence, Janma Nakshatra is 'Pushya'. 

(B) For other Planets : The methodology is the same as 
for Moon. However in the case of planets, their transit through 
Nakshatra or even Nakshatra charan (or Pada, Quarter) 
particularly in case of slow moving planets like Rahu, Ketu, 
Saturn and Jupiter is taken into account and not the transit of 
Rashi as the planets will take too much time to transit through 
one Rashi. 

15.6 Calculation of Dasha Balance 


This is worked out based on the Nakshatra already 
transited by Moon and yet to be transited. From the Panchang 
for Delhi we note the following data for the aforesaid example: 


On 25-3-2010 Pushya commenced at 10#"- 43° 
On 26-3-2010 Pushya was upto 6%- 16° 
Hence, duration of Moon in Pushya Nakshatra 
608 — (108 — 43°) + (68 16°) 

492 17° + 68 16? 


55® 33° (Since average span of each Nakshatra is 
60 ghatis) 


The time of birth of the native was at | 1% - 30". Hence 
(112 - 30°) - (108 - 43°) = 08 - 47° of Pushya Nakshatra was 


Mathematical Astrology 119 


traversed by moon at the time of birth. The Lord of Pushya 
Nakshatra is saturn with a dasha period of 19 years. Hence, if 
the nontraversed portion of moon in Pushya would be 55# 33° 
then dasha balance would be 19 years. Since 47° has already 
been traversed by moon in Pushya the remaining portion yet 
to be traversed by moon at birth is (55 —33?) - (0# - 47°) = 
548 — 46° 


Balance of Dasha would be 19 3286 + 3333 
= 18} - §™— 234 


EXERCISE 15 


Question 1: Cast a Nirayan horoscope and find out the 
dasha balance at birth by traditional method for a native born 
at Delhi on 25 October, 2011 at 9:30 AM (IST) 


Question 2 :Cast a Nirayana horoscope and find out the 
dasha balance at birth by traditional method for a native born 
at New York city (USA) at 10:30 P.M. (recorded Zonal 
Standard Time) on 22 May, 2011. 


CHAPTER 16 
BHAVAS 


16.1. Students are aware that the Zodiac consists of 360°. 
Though it is oval/elliptical in shape we consider it to be a 
circle for all practical purposes and use in calculations as 
far as Astrology is concerned. The Zodiac is divided into 
twelve equal parts of 30° each and each part is known as a 
Sign/Rashi. All these twelve signs appear to be rising one 
after the other on the eastern horizon of any place, 
gradually due to the rotation of the Earth on its axis from 
West to East. The particular point of the Zodiac (Ecliptic) 
which is intersected by the Eastern horizon of a place at a 
given moment becomes the Lagna or the Ascendant and 
this point (Lagna or the Ascendant) marks the beginning of 
the horoscope for that moment. The Horoscope which is a 
map of heavens at the given moment has twleve houses and 
as twelve houses are the parts of the Zodiac itself, the sum 
total of the extension of these houses is again 360°. However, 
the extension of each individual house is not necessarily 30°. 
The twelve divisions of the Zodiac taking the Lagna as the 
point of reference, are known as Bhavas in the Hindu Astrol- 
ogy or Houses in the Western Astrology. 


16.2 As we have already said that the twelve divisions 
of the Zodiac known as Bhavas or Houses are not necessarily 


(121) 


122 Mathematical Astrology 


equal, it is essential to work out the extension of each house 
to know precisely in which house a particular planet is posted 
or falls in the horoscope prepared fora moment. For working 
out or calculating the extension ofa house, it is necessary to 
decide first as to which point is the starting point of a house 
and which point is the end point of that house. We have already 
calculated one most important point on the Zodiac which is 
called Lagna. We have also defined vide Para 3.10 Supra, the 
Tenth house or MC as the point of the intersection of the 
Ecliptic with the meridian of the place at the given moment. 
But the mute question remains whether these points are the 
starting points or the middle points of the houses they represent 
viz. the First House and the tenth House. As already stated 
there is a controversy over the issue. According to Western 
system of Astrology, these points are taken as the starting or 
beginning points whereas according to Hindu Astrology, these 
points are the middle points or the "Bhava Madhyas " of the 
houses Ist and 10th. Maharishi Parashara in his Brihat 
Parashara Hora Shastram has favoured and advocated the later 
view. In these lessons, we therefore follow the later view. 


16.3 Yet another controversy exists in the matter of house 
divisions. According to one school of thought, all the houses 
are of equal extension and therefore, there is no necessity to 
calculate the longitude of the 10th cusp (Bhava Madhya or 
the middle point of the tenth house) separately as was done 
for the Ascendant. According to the equal house division sys- 
tem, the longitudes ofthe 10th cusp will not be the same as 
that of the M.C. Another school of thought advocates the 
unequal extension of houses (Bhavas) and there are several 
methods to calculate the longitudes of the cusps of the houses 
other than the 1 st and the 10th. However in all the methods of 
unequal house divisions, the 10thcusp is the same as the M.C. 


Mathematical Astrology 123 


In the lesson we do not propose to discuss all the methods of 
unequal divisions of houses but restrict our discussion only 
to the one most commonly used by the Hindu Astrologers 
and is supported by the classical texts on the subject. Students 
who desire to study the subject in detail are advised to refer 
to the standard works on the subject, particularly related with 
Astronomy. They may also read Appendix ll (pages 86 to 97) 
of the Tables of Ascendants by N.C. Lahiri which gives a 
fuller treatment of the subject. 


16.4 In order to work out the extent of different houses, 
it is essential to work out first the longitude of the 10th cusp 
in addition to the Lagna. The longitude of the 10th cusp is 
calculated with the help of Table of Ascendants exactly in the 
same way as the Lagna. The only difference is that while the 
longitude of Lagna varies from latitude to latitude, the X cusp 
longitude is same for all places at a given moment. As such 
only one table will suffice to calculate the X cusp which has 
been given at page 8 as well as at page 80 of the Tables of 
Ascendants and also page 132-133 of Ephemeris for 2011 by 
N.C. Lahiri. By using the same Sidereal time as for calculat- 
ing the Ascandant, we can calculate and find out the longi- 
tude of the 10th cusp from this table. We will illustrate this 
‘with the help of an example. 


16.5 Example | : Find out the longitude of the 10th 
Cusp for the native of example | of Chapter 6. 


Solution : Sidereal Time of Birth as calculated vide 
Example 1 of Lesson 6. = 115 23" 27: (Page 56 ilid)) 


For this Sidereal Time, from Page 8 of Tables of 
Ascendants or from table at pages 132-133 of the Ephemeris 
for 2011, the longitude of X cusp is worked out as follows : 


124 


Mathematical Astrology 

For 115 23" = 45 26° 56' 
For 1155 24min = 4827° 12' 
Diff between 11 h 23 m and 11 h 24m =0-16' 

16 
For 27 8 =— x 27 =7.2' =0 0° 7 

60 
For 11° 23" 27s = 4827° 03' 


Ayanamsha correctionfor 2005 = (-) 0°56' 

(Since the birth date is 25-10-2005) 

Therefore Nirayana longitude of X cusp = 4526°7' 
16.6The point exactly opposite to the 1 st cusp is the VII 


cusp and similarly the point opposite to the X cusp is the IV 
cusp. These 4 points on the Zodiac are known as the cardinal 


points of any horoscope and are therefore given specific names 


as follows : 
I cusp is known as Ascendant and the X cusp is called Zenith 
VII cusp is known as Descendant and the IV Cusp is called 


Nadir 
For example under consideration, these can be repre- 
sented as follows : x 
Zenith 
4267 
1 Vil 
Ascendant Descendant 
75°51" 115°51° 
Iv 
Nadir 


1026°7° 


Mathematical Astrology 125 


From the figure one can easily see that if the Zodical 
Arc between the X cusp and the Ascendant (I Cusp) is divided 
into 3 equal parts, the intervening points will indicate the 
longitudes of the XI and XII cusps. Similarly the Arc between 
the Ascendant and the IV cusp when divided into three parts 
will give us the longitudes of the IT and III cusps. Further by 
adding 6 signs to the longitudes of the XI, XII, Il and III cusps, 
we can find out the longitudes of the opposite cusps namely 
the V, VI and VIII and IX. Thus we will be able to get the 
longitudes of all the remaining Eight cusps. This can be done 
as follows : 


Longitude of Ascendant for the Sidereal Time of 1 1423" 
27s at 28° 39' N Delhi 25-10-2005 at 9.30 AM. (Refer to Page 
No. 48 of Table of Ascendants or Page 140-141 of Indian 
Ephemeris for 2005) 


114 24™ 78 16°55! 
115 20" 7 16° 4! 
Moment in 4 m interval SI’ 
We need moments for 0" 3" 27s 43! 
Adding this to 11420" 7 16" 4! 
ST. at epoch 114 23"27s 7s 16° 47' 
Less Ayanamsa for 2005 (-) 56' 

7 15°51! 


Longitude of Ascendant = 78 15° 51' 
Deduct longitude of X = 48 26° 07 
Length of Arc X to I 2519° 44'(A) 


(Note : Students are advised to note that to get the Arc 
length between the X cusp and the I cusp, we Must always 
substract the longitude of X from the longitude of Asc. 
(i.e. I-X) and Never reverse of it (i.e. X-I). In case longitude 
of X is more than the longitude ofthe 1 cusp, we may add 


126 Mathematical Astrology 


12 signs to the longitude of 1 cusp and then do the 


subsctraction). 
Now by dividing (A) by 3 we get 
2°19°44' = 79°44 
3 3 


= 26° 34' 40" 


We can now get the longitudes of the XI and XII cusps 


as follows : 
Longitude of X cusp = 48 26° 7' 


Add = 26° 34' 40" 
Longitude ofXI cusp = 5822° 41' 40" 
Add = 26° 34' 40" 
Longitude of XII cusp = 6° 19° 16° 20" 
Add = 26° 34’ 40" 

Longitude of Ascendant = 7° 15° 5 1' 


Longitude ofX cusp = 48 26° 7 
Longitude of IV cusp = 108 26° 7! 
Longitude of VIl cusp = 1$ 15° 51' 
Similarly by substracting the longitude of Ist from 
the IV, we get =10826° 7'- 7° [5° 51'= 3° 10° [6' 
And dividing this by 3 we get = 1§3°25'20"......... 
We can now calculate the longitude of the II and II 
cusps as follows : 
Longitude of Ascendant = 7° 15 ° 51’ 


Add = = 18 3° 25'20" 
Longitude of II cusp = 8° 19° 16’ 20" 
Add = 48 3° 25' 20" 
Longitude of Tlf cusp =  9822° 41'40" 
Add = 1$3° 25' 20" 


Longitude of IV cusp = 10526°07' 


Mathematical Astrology 127 


We have thus calculated the longitudes of X, XI, XH, I, 
II and III houses and by adding 6 signs to each of them we can 
find the longitudes of the remaining 6 houses. This can be 
represented diagrammatically as follows : 


16.7 Students will recall that in Hindu Astrology the 
cusps are the middle points of the houses or the Bhava 
Madhyas and not the beginning of the Bhavas as followed by 
the western Astrologers. As such in order to find out the extent 
of Bhavas we have yet to calculate the longitudes of the 
starting/end points of Bhavas. It should however be noted that 
the end point of a particular bhava is the same as the starting 
point of the next Bhava. Therefore the end point of the I house 
is the starting point of the II house and the end point of the II 


woo ~—-4826°07'00"_489°24'20" 
Sgo 
praeae0 X 3922°41'40" 


IX 


5°22°41'40" 


XI 
695°59'30" 3°5°59' 
6°19°16'20" 
Vil 
2519°16'20" 


782°33'40". 2°2°33'40" 


7915°51' | 
1815°51' 
852°33'40" 1°2°33'40" 
3819°16'20" II VI 0919°16'20" 


985°59' 085°59' 


Vv 
9822°41'40" 1089°24'20" IV 1189°24'20" 
10826°07'00" 


11822°41'40" 


128 Mathematical Astrology 


house is the starting point of the IIT house and so on. In Hindu 
Astrology, these start/end points are known as Bhava-Sandhis 
or the Junction points of the houses. These junction points or 
the Bhava Sandhis have been marked by the dotted lines in the 
above figure. The length of Arc covered between any two 
Bhava Sandhis will be the extent of the Bhava or the house 
represented by the Bhava-Madhya or the cusp falling in 
between the two Bhava Sandhis. The longitudes of these 
Bhava Sandhis can easily be worked out by taking the mean of 
the longitudes of the two cusps on either side of a Bhava 
Sandhis or alternatively we can initially divide the lengths of 
Arcs between the X and J and IV and VII by 6 instead of 3 as 
done earlier vide Para 16.6 above. This 1/6 of the respective 
Arc when successively added to the longitudes of the X cusp 
will give us alternatively the longitudes of the subsequent 
Bhava-Sandhis and Bhava Madhya, as follows : 


Lengths of Arc between X cusp and Ascendant divided 
by 6. 
= 2819°44':6 = 13°17'20" 
Similarly the length of the Arc between Ascendant and 
the IV cusp divided by 6 will be = 3510°16'+6 = 16°42'40" 
We can now calculate the longitudes of different Bhava 
Sandhis and Bhava Madhyas as follows : 


Longitude of Ascendant = 7°15°51'00" 
Add = 16°42'40" 
Long. of Bhava-Sandhi between I and II = 8°02°33'40" 
Add = 16°42'40" 


Longitude of I cusp = 8§19°16'20" 


Mathematical Astrology 129 


Add = 16°42*40" 
Long. of Bhava Sandhi between TI&HI = 985°59'00" 
Add = 16°42'40' 
Long. of Ill cusp = 9522°41'40" 
Add = 16°42'40" 
Long. of Bhava-Sandhi between IT & IV = —_1089°24'20" 
Add = 16°42'40" 
Long. of IV cusp = 10°26°07'00" 


Similarly starting from the longitude of the X cusp and 
adding successively 13°17'20" we can obtain the Bhava- 
Sandhis between X and XI cusps, XI and XII cusps and XI and 
I cusp. Then having obtained all the Bhava-Sandhis between 
X to and I to IV and by adding 6 signs to those, we can obtain 
the longitudes of the remaining Sandhis between IV to VII and 
VII to X cusps. These have been worked out and shown in the 
figure given on previous page. 


16.8 Having worked out the extension of each of the 


RASHI CHART BHAVA CHART 


130 Mathematical Astrology 


twelve houses as above, we can now mark the position of all 
the nine planets based on their longitudes (for the example 
horoscope these have already been calculated vide example 1 
(DOB 25-10-2005) at 9.30 am. IST chapter 10 in the aforesaid 
diagram and see for ourselves in which particular Bhava a 
particular planet is posited. We give below the Rashi chart 
(commonly known as Janma Kundali or Birth Horoscope) and 
the Bhava chart for comparison by the students. 


A comparison of the above two charts will reveal that 
Jupiter actually falls in the eleventh (XI) house or Bhava. 


16.9 We may however mention here that some Astrolo- 
gers are of the opinion that Bhava Chart or the Chalit of the 
planets does not have much significance and judgement of a 
horoscope with reference to the Rashi Chart alone is sufficient 
and yields reasonably satisfactory results. We are however 
neither in favour nor against this view as we prescribe the use 
of Divisional charts. We therefore leave this to our students to 
apply the phenomenon to as many practical horoscopes as 
possible and verify the results themsleves. 


EXERCISE 16 


Question : Calculate the longitudes of all the Bhava- 
Sandhis and Bhava Madhyas in respect of horoscopes of 
natives of all the 5 cases of Question 1 Exercise 11. 


CHAPIER 17 
SHADVARGAS 


17.1 Students will recall that vide Lesson 13 (Para 13.1) 
while discussing the subject of dasha systems we have stated 
that dasha systems propounded by our ancient sages is a 
marvellous and unique Astrological tool for precise timing of 
events that are likely to take place in the life of a Native. 
Similarly the concept of Divisional Charts or the 
Shodasvargas is yet another instrument, unique to Hindu 
Astrology, for correct and accurate assessment of worth 
of an Astrological Nativity. 


17.2 Maharishi Parashara in his Brihat Parashar Hora 
Shastram has mentioned about the different Vargas or the 
Divisional Charts" as follows : 

(a) Shad Vargas or the Six charts :It includes the Lagna, 
Hora, Drekkana, Navamsa, Dwadashamsha and Trimshamsha. 


(b) Sapt Vargas or the seven charts ; It includes all the 
above mentioned six charts or Shadvargas plus Saptamsha. 

(c) Dash Vargas or the ten charts : It includes all the 
above mentioned seven charts plus Dashamsha, 
Shodashamsha and Shashtyamsha. 

(d) Shodas Vargas or the Sixteen charts : It includes all 
the above mentioned charts plus Turyamsha (or 


(131) 


132 Mathematical Astrology 


Chaturthamsha), Vimshamsha, Chatur Vimshamsha, Sapt- 
Vimshamsha (or Bhamsha) Chatvariamsha (or Khavedamsha) 
and Panch-Chatvariansha (or Akshavedamsha). 


17.3 It is significant to know and understand that each 
divisional chart or the varga chart is symbolic of certain 
aspect of human life. As the name Divisional Charts itself 
is indicative, a Rashi is divided into as many as 60 divisions 
and each division envisages a particular aspect of life, 
whether material, spiritual or physical. Out of the aforesaid 
60 divisions, the 16 divisions as mentioned in Para 17.2 above 
are specifically considered to be more significant. Apart from 
affording the Astrologer a ready reckoner to know and assess 
the strength and/or weakness of the planets in the different 
vargas (depending on whether the planet is in the varga of 
exaltation, mooltrikona, own sign, neutral, enemy sign or 
debilitation etc), it also enables the Astrologer to refer to a 
divisional chart according to the particular aspect of the life 
indicated by that divisional chart. The indications/use of each 
of these 16 charts or Shodasvargas are as follows : 


(i) Lagna chart :Judgement about body, structure, built, 
constitution, health, complexion, etc. 


(ii) Hora Chart : One's wealth, finance, prosperity, poverty, 
etc. 


(iii) Drekkana: Relations with brothers and sisters, their 
. influence on the native, as well as their property, etc. 
:also diagnosis of desease. 


(iv) Turyamsa or Chaturthamsha : Luck or fortune of the 
native, the assets and liabilities of person whether 
moveable or immovable, etc. 


Mathematical Astrology 133 


(v) Saptamsha :; Children and Grandchildren, their 
prosperity, etc. According to one school of thought, this 
chart in a female nativity can be used for assessing the 
husband's prosperity and well being. 

(vi) Navamsha : Strength or weakness of the planets. Wife 
or Husband and how will be the partner in life, married 
life, etc. 

(vii) Dashamsha :; Prosperity and upliftment, one's 
achievements, honour, professional success in life, etc. 


(viii) Dwadashamsha: Parents, Parental happiness, etc. 
(ix) Shodashamsha : Happiness, Miseries, Conveyances, etc. 
(x) Vimshamsha : Prayer, Worship, Upasana, etc. 


(xi) Chatur-Vimshamsha_; Education knowledge, learning, 
etc. 
(xii) Sapta Vimshamsha or Bhamsha : Strength, weakness, 
etc. 
(xili) Trimshamsha : Miseries, danger in life (arishta), etc. 
(xiv) Chatvariamsha or Khavedmsha :; General good/bad, 
auspicious/inauspicious results that a native may enjoy. 
(xv) Panch-Chatvariamsha or Akshavedamsha, and 
(xvi) Shashtyamsha : All other indications, Good or Evil in 
life, etc. 
174 Method of Preparation of Divisional Charts 
We will like our students to note that Astrology is a 
subject where far too many different schools of thought are 
prevalent and therefore for preparation, of divisional charts 
also, several methods are in vogue. However, in this lesson 
we propose to discuss only one method which is most 
commonly used and applied by the majority of the Astrologers 


- 134 Mathematical Astrology 


of the yore and present times. The methods given in this 
lessons are the same as given by the Greatest Hindu Astrologer 
of his time, (Late) Dr. B.V. Raman in his book A Manual of 
Hindu Astrology. 


17.4.1 Further it is stated that while we have listed and 
acquainted our students with all the 16 charts or 
shodashvargas, the method of working out the Shadvargas 
only, is discussed in this lesson, as mentioned in the syllabus 
for Jyotisha Praveen examination. Those students who desire 
to work on the remaining 10 charts or vargas are advised to 
refer to chapter XII of Dr. B.V. Raman's book mentioned 
above. 


17.4.2 LAGNA CHART or RASHI CHART : This is 
the basic chart or the natal chart erected/cast for the moment 
of birth of a native or incident or question. As a matter of 
fact, all the remaining 15 charts are the divisions of this chart 
only and therefore can be stated to emanate from this chart. 
We give below this chart for a native born on 25-10-2011 at 
09:30 AM (UST) at Delhi. 


17.43 HORA CHART: Each Rashi is divided into two 
equal halves and the Sun and the Moon becomes the rulers of 
these divisions as follows : 

NORTH INDIA STYLE SOUTH INDIA STYLE 

(IST) 


7 Merde 
BN. sul? 6 a _KE 
5°24! cats 546K on 11-46-56 21-06-35 
13-36-4]| 
SA 
25-10-2011 MA 
27° 
- 4 
Son 7d? Moon 
Gori 13-36-41 
er ha 
Met” |SA 27-32 


09 :30 AM 


Asc 
: “em 
Jupiter (R) RA 
11°46'56" K21-06/) 


Mathematical Astrology 135 


(a) In odd signs : 

(i) First 15° are ruled by the Sun (Leo Sign) 

(ii) Last 15° are ruled by the Moon (Cancer Sign) 
(b) In Even Signs : 

(i) First 15° are ruled by Moon (Cancer sign) 

(ii) Last 15° are ruled by Sun (Leo sign) 
The Hora chart for the above native will therefore be as 


under: 


HORA CHART 


Lagna, Sun, Mars 


Rahu 
Saturn, Ketu 
Jup 


DREKKANA 
17.4.4 Drekkana Chart. 


NORTH INDIA STYLE SOUTH INDIA STYLE 


136 Mathematical Astrology 


Each Rashi is divided into three equal parts of 10° each. 
The First Drekkana (0° to 10°) falls in the same Rashi itself, 
the second Drekkana (>10° to 20°) falls in the 5th Rashi 
therefrom and the third Drekkana (>20° to 30°) falls in the 
9th Rashi from the Rashi under consideration. The Drekkana 
chart for the example horoscope will be as given above : 


17.4.5. Navamsha Chart : In this case each Rashi is 
divided into 9 equal parts of 3°20! each (i.e. Equal to a quarter 
or Pada of a Nakshatra) 

In Fiery Signs : The nine parts are ruled by the lords 

of nine signs from Aries. 

In Earthy signs: The nine parts are ruled by the lords 

of nine signs from Capricorn. 
In A iry Signs : The nine parts are ruled by the lords 
of nine signs from Libra. 
In Watery Signs : The nine parts are ruled by the lords 
of nine signs from Cancer. 


The Navamsha chart for the horoscope is given below : 


NAVAMSHA 
MO 
VE 
ME 


NAVAMSHA 
RA 


17.4.6 Dwadashamsha Chart : Each Rashi is divided 
into 12 equal parts of 2°30' each. The 12 parts are ruled by 


Mathematical Astrology 137 


the lords of the 12 signs successively from the sign under 
consideration. 


MOON 
IDWADASHAMSHA\ 


17.4.7 Trimshamsha Chart : Each rashi is divided into 
30 equal parts of 1° each. 
(a) In Odd Signs : 
First 5 parts (0° to 5°) ruled by Mars 
Next 5 parts (5° to 10°) ruled by Saturn 
Next 8 parts (10° to 18°) ruled by Jupiter 
Next 7 parts (18° to 25°) ruled by Mercury 


Next 5 parts (25° to 30) ruled by Venus 


DWADASHAMSHA 


(b) In Even signs : 
First 5 parts (0° to 5°) ruled by Venus 
Next 7 parts (5° to 12°) ruled by Mercury 
Next 8 parts (12° to 20°) ruled by Jupiter 
Next 5 parts (20° to 25°) ruled by Saturn 
Next 5 parts (25° to 30°) ruled by Mars. 


The Trimshamsha Chart for the example horoscope is 
given below : 


138 Mathematical Astrology 


TRIMSHAMSHA 


Moon 
re] ff | 
L| 


TRIMSHAMSHA 


EXERCISE 17 
Question : Prepare the Shadvarga charts of all the 5 cases 


of Question 1 of Exercise No. 11 


CHAPTER 1 8 
REFRESHERS 


Question From Jyotisha Praveena Examinations 
Paper II 
18.1. Calculate Ascendant and planetary positions of 
the native born on 10% Dec. 2011 at 11-20 Am at 
Ahmedabad. 
Ans. 
HM § 
Step I. | Note sidereal Time for 17-14-36 
& 10" December 2011 (Page 38 of Ephemeris) 
Step II.) (includes Step I and II) 
Step II. Correction for place of birth (Page 146) + 0-0-7 
Step IV. Sid. Time on [0" Angust 2011 at 
Ahmedabad 12 Noon (A) 17-14-43 
Step V. LMT 
Time of birth (ST) AM — 11-20-00 
LMT Correction 


(P-146 Ephemeris 2011) © 0-39-36 

”. L.M.T at birth 10-40-24 
Step VI. TJ. from Noon as birth is A.M 

12 hrs 0 [0-40-24 1-19-36 


(139) 


140 Mathematical Astrology 


Step VII. Increase in TI (Table IV page 33 

of this book) for 1 h 19 m = 0-0-13 

Total (B) 1-19-49 
Step VILL. Being A.M. it is subtracted from (A) 

(A-B) (17-14-43)-(1-19-49) 

ie. Time of epoch = 15-54-54 
Step IX Calculating Ascendant 

Sid. Time at epoch is 15'-54"-54s 

'Refer page 37 of Table of Ascendants’ 


15" 56" 9° 27° 10! 

15' 52" 9° 25° 59" 

4" interval 1° 11' 

2™ interval 35'30" 

1™ interval 17 45" 

54° interval 15' 58" 
17.75 x54 

( 60 

2" 54° 51'28" 

15" 52" 9§25° 59" 0" 

15" 54™ 54s 9° 26° 50! 28" 

Less Ayanamsha for 2011 ir 

Ascendant at Epoch 9° 25° 49! 

(Say Capricorn 25° 49') 


18.2. Find out the following for above chart 
(a) Naramsha chaut (b) Constellation of each planet and 
lagna (c) Saptamsha chart (d) Dasa balance (3) Hora chart. 


Planetary Positions on 10th Dec. 2011 at 11-20 Am at Ahmedabad 


Details MOON 
(0 11-12-2011 1/28° -59'-40" 
(ii) 10-12-2011 1/16°-40'27" 
(iii) Diff. of 24 hrs 124 19" 13" 


(iv) Diff. of TI. 
11-20 AM—5-30-5-50 hrs 


(v) Log for Diff 5' 50" 6143 
Log for motion of 2897 
planets 

(vi) Total 9040 
(vii) Nearest log for (vi) 3°-0' 


(vii) Add it to position 
of 10 Dec at 5.30 AM —1/19°40'27" 
and get position for 
10-12-2011 at 11.20 AM 


Note: Rahu 11.12.2011 7° 20° 15" 


10.12.201) 78 20°15' 


MER (R) 


7/10°-40' 
7119-20" 
(-) 0°-40' 


6143 
1.5563 


2.1706 
0°-10' 


7/1910 


VENUS 


8/23°-54" 
8/22°-40' 
19-14! 


6143 


1.2891 


1.9034 
0°-18" 


8/22°58' 


MARS 


4/19°-24' 
4/19°-01° 
0°-23' 


6143 


1.7966 


2.4109 
0°-05' 


4/19°06 


JUP (R) 


0/06°-43" 
0/06°-47° 
(-)0°-04" 


6143 
2.5563 


3.1706 
0°-01" 


0/06°46' 


SAT 


6/02°-38' 
6/02°-33' 
0°-05' 


6143 


2.4594 


3.0737 
0°-01' 


6/02°34 


No change in 24 hours. Hence no need for calculation. Ketu therefore would be 1§20° 15". 


SUN 


7/24°-32'-52" 
7123°-31'-55" 
19-0'-57" 


6143 


13730 


1.9873 
0-15" 


7/23°46' 


ASOPONSY [PIB SULLY 


IF 


142 Mathematical Astrology 


CONSTELLATIONS OF PLANETS AND LAGNA 


Constellation Lord 
LAG 9/25-49 Dhanishta | MA 
SUN 7/23-46 Jyestha 3 MER 
MOON © 1/19-40-27 —_ Rohini 3 MOON 
MARS 4/19-06 P.Phal 2 VEN 
ME(R)_ 7/11-10 Anuradha 3 SAT 
JUP (R) 0/06-46 Aswini 3 KETU 
VE 8/22-58 P. Asadha 3 VEN 
SA 6/02-34 Chitra 3 MARS 
RA 7/20-15 Jyestha 2 MER 
KE 1/20-15 Rohini 4 MOON 


(4) VE MA ME 


(Caucer) 


(5) LAGNA Jup SA Sun Mo RA 
KE 


(Leo) 


Mathematical Astrology 143 


Calculation of balance of Dasha See Page 116-117 of 
Ephemeris 
Moon is 1/19-40-27 (See Table at page 117) 
ymd 
At 19°-40' below Taurus = Moon : 2-9-0 
Balance of Dasa of moon at birth = 2yrs 9 mths 


183 (a) Ifa person is born on poornina, what will be 
the relative positions of Sun and Moon in the horoscope? 

Ans. The Sun and the Moon will be in 1/7 axis, i.e., 
180° apart. 

(b) If venus is in deep exaltation point in RASI Chart 
what will be the position in Navamsha. 

Ans, Venus will be Vargottam in Navamsha and will also 
be exalted in Navamsha. 

(c) If Saturn is posited in Kritika nakshatra 1* pada 
what could be the position of Saturn in Hora chart? 

Ans. Kritika first pada falls in Aries (Mesha) from 26°40" 
to 30° i.e., last navamsha of Aries (Mesha) and 2" Hora (above 
15°) hence Saturn will be in the Hora of the Moon. 

(d) If Jupiter is debilitated in Rasi and Navamsha, 
what is Nakshatra of Jupiter? 

Ans. Jupiter is debilitated in rasi chart in Capricorn 
(Makar) at 5°, the nakshatra Uttar Asadha is from 26'-40' of 
Dhanu (Sagittarius) to 10° of Makar (Capricorn), the Jupiter 
at 5° falls in Uttar Asadha III pada. 

(e) If Moon is posited in Dhanishta 1“ pada, then who 
is the dasa lord and what could be range of balance dasa. 

Ans. Dhanishta nakshatra falls from 23°20' to 30° of 
Capricom (Makar) and 0° to 6°-40' of Aquarius (Kumbha) 
First pada is from 23°-20' to 26°-40' of Capricorn (Makar) 


144 - Mathematical Astrology 


this means of first pada is 3°-20' ie., 1/4* of nakshatra is 
traversed by Moon. Total period of Mars (lord of Dhanishta) 
dasa is 7 yrs. 1/4" of 7 is 1 yr 9 mths is enjoyed and balance 
period of dasa will be 7 (-) 1 yr 9 mths = 5 yrs 3 mths is the 
balance of dasa at birth. 

18.4. Answer the following: 

(a) Convert the following into hours and sec 

(i) 40 Ghati 23 Pal 
(ii) 32 Ghati 23 Pal 
(b) Convert the given into Ghati and pal 
(i) 10 hrs 20 mts. 
(ii) 17 hrs 15 mts. 

(c) If the moon is at 300° in a natal chart, what is the 
Vimshottari dasa balance for the native at the time of 
birth? 

Ans. (a) Multiply by 2 and + 5 we get 

(i) 16hrs. 9 mts. 12 secs. 
(ii) 12 hrs. 57 mts. 12 secs, 

(b) Multiply by 5 and divide by 2 
(i) 25 ghati and 50 Pal 
(ii) 43 ghati-7 pal-30 vipal 

(c) One rasi is of 30°, if we divide 300° it will be 
10 Rasis apart, i.e., 30° is end of [Mesh, 60° 
(Vrish) 90° (Mithuna) 120° (Karka) 150° 
(Simha), 180° is (Kanya) 210° (Tula), 240° 
Scorpio (Vrishchika), 270° is the end of 
Sagittarius (Dhanu) and 300° is the end of 
Capricorn (Makar) the 10thsign of Zodiac. At 
300° is the 2nd pada of Dhanishta nakshatra 
whose lord is Mars. Mars total dasa period is 


Mathematical Astrology ‘ 145 


7 yrs. second pada is over means half of the 
period availed and half remains i.e., balance 3 
yrs 6 months is available (Bhogya dosa) at 
birth. 

18.5. What is the difference between Sidereal Time, 
Local Time, Standard Time and GMT? Calculate the 
Sidereal Time for the native born on 11th June 2011 at 
730 p.m. in Pune. 

Ans. Local Time. The local time is known as local mean 
time for a particular place. the local time or more accurately 
the local mean time (LMT) which is created by the gradual 
rising of the Sun and the rounds and rotation of the earth is 
the real or natural time of a place. This differs from place to 
place and is dependent on the longitude and latitude of the 
place. This is important for calculating ascendant (lagna). 

Standard Time. Anew version of time was decided upon 
and was called the standard time to have the uniformity of 
time, which was the LMT. of a centrally located longitude 
in a country. In case of India, it was in 1906 AD when it was 
decided that the terrestrial longitude 82° 30' E will be taken 
as the standard meridian of India for this purpose and the 
LMT at this meridian (82° 30') E longitude will be the Indian 
Standard Time (IST). By this decision, the watches began to 
show a uniform time through out the country. 

GMT (Greenwich Mean Time). As in case of country, 
the necessity to have a uniform time, generated the concept 
of ‘Standard Time' for a country, in the international affairs, 
it was also considered necessary to have a standard time which 
could be referred to by all the countries of the world whenever 
needed. We all know that the meridian passing through the 


146 Mathematical Astrology 


Greenwich (near London) has been chosen as the 0° longitude 
or the reference point for reckoning the terrestrial longitudes 
of all places on earth. Therefore, the local time at the meridian 
of Greenwich at any epoch (moment) is known as Greenwich 
Mean Time (GMT). 

Sidereal Time. The Sidereal Time is derived from the 
earth's rotation with respect to the stars. We discussed that 
sidereal day is the time taken by the earth to rotate once on its 
axis with reference to any fixed star, the duration of sidereal 
day is 23 hrs 56 mts. (appx.) or 23 hrs 56 mts. 4.091 secs. In 
astronomical terminology, the sidereal time at any instant is 
defined to be the west hour angle of the Vernal Equinoctial 
(VE) point or the first point of Sayana Aries (Mesha) from 
the upper meridian of the place. For mathematical purpose, it 
will be suffice to define the sidereal time as the local time 
reckoned according to the apparent rotation of the celestial 
sphere. Or whenever the time is reckoned with reference to 
the sidereal day, it is called sidereal time. The sidereal time is 
‘ZERO’ hour when the first point of Aries or Mesha (in Sayana 
System) i.e., vernal or the spring equinox crosses the 
observer's meridian (which is the great circle on the celestial 
sphere, passing through the Zenith and both the celestial 
poles). 

Calculation of sidereal time for the native born on 11th 
June 2011 at 19-30 hrs in Pune. 

Step 1 Note down the sidereal time at 12 hrs (noon) 
LMT for 82°30' E longitude for 1900 AD for 
the day and month of the given moment from 
Table | at page 2 of Table of Ascendent 

OR 
From Ephemeris for 2011 against 5-17-03 
11th line in 4th column 


Mathematical Astrology 147 


Step 2 Correction of year not required 
as it has been included in current 
ephemeris 
Step 3 Correction of the place Pune 
(Page 153) 
(LAT 18°-31'N Long 73°-53° E) + 0-0-06 
LMT Corr. (-) 34'-28" 
Step 4 Sidereal Time for 12 Noonor 5-17-09 (A) 


11th June 2011 
Step 5 Convert the given time of epoch. 
into LMT by applying LMT 07-30-0 
correction (Page 153) (-) 34-28 
Step 7 06-55-32 
Increase TI. from table IV 
hrs. mt. sec. 
6 59 
0-55 9 
Total 1 08 + 1-08 
Corrected Time Interval 6-56-40 (B) 


*, Sidereal Time at Epoch. 
Add A & B as the time is of afternoon 
= 3-17-09 + 6-56-40 12-13-49 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 


5 |Navamsa 


Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


SAPTAVARGA CHARTS 
Note : 1. Hora; 2. Drckana, 3. Saptamsha 4. Navamsa 5. Dwadasamsa 6. Trisamsa 


SAPTAVARGA CHARTS 
Note : 1. Hora; 2. Drekana, 3. Saptamsha 4. Navamsa 5. Dwadasamsa 6. Trisamsa 


AY 
on 


om f 
3 wah 
fsues—> [vse 


sak ODL A 


Trisamsa 


eee 


g Saptamsa 
gefNavamsa 


ohuUuuAndu 

wehuUAnNY 
nN iP = wr 
MNANwoORUL YANHWL KAP oRAANU- UHC SLA oft 


Trisamsa 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


wai bvwal Suarunulunracoian si 
wERNNHwA] SGLUUNY |] wNo 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


Susoxrnay 


SOutnbu 


ear een 
a ee 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


Hora 
Drekana 
Saptamsa 
Navamsa 
Dwadsamsa 
Trisamsa 


Pee | 


we 
Be aern eee | 
= N 
ere eee | 
e5e] -Seeed| ose | 
-onowu 


i 


wpimus 


con 


oe 


SAPTAVARGA CHARTS 
Note : 1. Hora; 2. Drekana, 3. Saptamsha 4. Navamsa 5. Dwadasamsa 6. Trisamsa 


w 
os 


eee tL 


eee | 
v[ Benes 


Nu 

a 
yuo 

COW 


eonnrtiue 
eran eu 


15 
it) 
19) 
5 
1 

12 
5 
2 
9 
4 
2 
7 
2 
3 

12 
5 
3 
2 

ll 
4 
9 
4 
4 
9 
8 
4 

12 


4 5 
2 2 
1 1 
1 2 
3 4 
12 12 
5 4 
3 3 
2 2 
10 TT 
4 5 
9 9 
4 5 
4 4 
9 9 
7 8 
4 5 
12 12 


Le 
eon 


Couns 


6 
3 
9 
5 
2 
7 
3 
4 
12 
4 
3 
2 
12 
5 
9 
5 
4 
9 
9 
5 
12 


17 
30 
0 
4 
1 

1 
6 
3 
9 
5 
2 
8 
3 
4 
12 
4 
3 
3 
12 
5 
9 
5 
4 


coon 


CRA aA 


5 
2 
8 
3 
5 
12 
4 
3 
3 
12 
6 
9 


FEL Seer Se| 


° 


coms Ronee geen 


ee ee ee ne 


N 


a 
EE 
ee 


wn 
econ 


wa 


eu] senese] Suneoul vocvual ia 


Ee 
= wn 
ol mOowUnraAkh weoMNncan sanrewuaspod 3 


Index 


Ahas 62 Day 32 

Akshansha 1, 23 Declination 2, 20 
Angular distance 12 Dhruva 2, 20 

Ahas 62 Drekhana 135 

Antar dasa 109 Divisional charts 133 
Anomilistic Year 37 Dwapar Yuga 32 
Apparent Noon 62 Dwadsamsha 136 
Apparent Solarday 36 

Ascendant 30 Earth 1,4 

Asterisms 26 Ecliptic 1, 18,21 
ASU 103 Ephemeris 31 
Autumnal Equinox 23 Epoch 24, 50 
Ayanamsha 2, 21 Equator 1, 5 
Becta Equinoctial Points 2, 24 
Bhutaganas (i) Five elements (i) 
Brahma 2 Fixed Zodiac 2, 24 
Budha (ii) 


Ganesha (i) 


Cardinal Points 113 
Geographical LAT & LONG 1,7, 14 


Celestial Equator 1, 16, 17, 31 


Celestial lat. 2, 19 Ghati 35 

Celestial long 2, 19 GM.T. 41, 45 

Celestial Object 20 Grah spashta 81 

Celestial Poles | Greenwitch Mean Time 41 


Celestial Sphere 1, 16, 17 
Constellations 28 
Convertion of time 42 Hora 134 
Corrections of hours and mts 32 
Cosmic Sphere ], 16, 17 


Hemisphere 1, 6 


Imaginary Circle 9 
Incarnations (ii) 


Cusps 111 

Increase time interval 33 
Dasa 95 Interpolation 59 
Dasha balance 118 Ishta Kaal 104 


(151) 


Mathematical Astrology 


Janma Nakshatra 105 
Janma Rasi 105 


Kaliyuga 35 
Kalpa 35, 36 
Koorma (it) 
Kranti 20 
Krishna (ii) 


Lagnas 30 

Lipta 32 

Local Time 39, 145 

Lords of Constellations 26 
LMT. 44 

Lunar Day 34 

Lunar month 37 

Lunar Year 34 


Mahayuga 36 

Matsya (ii) 

Mean Solar Day 36 
Medium Coeli (MC) 29 
Midday 36 

Months 37 

Moveable Zodiac 2, 26 


Nakshatras 28 
Nakshatra Dina 38 
Nakshatra Year 34 
Narasimha (ii) 
Nirayana System 2, 26 


North and Southem Hemisphere 14 


North and South Poles 21 
Oblique Ascension 2, 23 


Para 35 
Parsu Ram (ii) 


Perihelion 34 


Precession of Equinoxes 2, 24 


Rama (ii) 

Rashimaan 2, 23, 114 
Ratri 62 

Ravi Marg 18 
Rekhansha 1 

Right Ascension 2, 20 


Saptavarga Chart 148 
Savana Day 36 
Savana Year 36 
Satyuga 32 

Sayana System 2, 26 
Sayana Zodiac 25 
Shadvargas 131 
Sidreal Day 36 
Sidreal Time 51 
Sidreal Year 36 
Sidereal Zodiac 26 
Solar Day 33 

Solar month 37 

Solar System 1,2 
Spring 23 

Standard Time 40, 145 
Stars 26 

Summer time 59 
Sunrise/Sunset 61 
Surya (ii) 


Total IV 32, 33 

Table of Ascendant 2, 31 
Table of Houses 2, 31 
Tatpara 35 

Tenth House 30 
Terrestrial Equator 5 
Time Measure 35 


153 


Time Difference 39 
Time Zone 42 
Traditional Method 113 
Treta Yuga 35 

Tropical Year 37 
Tropical Zodiac 27 


Unidirectional 19 


Vilipta 35 

Varah (ii) 

Vernal Equinoctial Point 24 
Vemal Equinox 23 

Vighati 35, 104 
Vighneshwar (i) 


Mathematical Astrology 


Vikshepa 20 
Vipala 32 
Vimshotteri Dasa 104 


War time 58 


Years 37 
Yuga 35 


Zenith 124 
Zodiac 2, 19 
Zodiac of Constellation 25 


Zodiac of Signs 25 
Zonal Standard Time 38 


