A Course in 
INDIAN ASTROLOGY 


Written by 
Prof.N.E.Muthuswamy. M.A., M.Ed, 
Mahopadhyaya, Sahityaratna 
Translated by 
Prof.K.P. Dharmaraja lyer. M.Sc.Ph.D 


Retd Professor 


Preface 


Astrology is the study of human behaviour and experiences 
on the backdrop of time and space. It is the result of meditative 
uitelligence and extra sensorial experience of great seers unattain- 
able and unimaginable to the present contemporary uitellengentia 
advocating m materialistic base for the study of sciences and treat- 
ing astrology as a system of inere. fortune telling. 

Astrology is also a science where hinnan experiences and be- 
haviour have been analysed threadbare and dicta propounded which 
can be verified and substantiated to the core. It is true that today 
this branch of study is not able to explain and prove its dicta by 
laboratory methods as is being practised in other materialistic sci- 
ences. But materialistic sciences also have their own limitations when’ 
they confront with the human experiences abstract in nature. Mod- 
ern sciences have invented that when the male sperm and female 
ovum meet in the womb the living embryo comes into being. This is 
really a great invention to the credit of medical science. But it has 
no explanation for the simple query that why some couples, healthy 
in all respects remain childless in spite of undergoing allthe geriat-, 
ric treatment. In such cases of limitation of experimental sciences 
astrology has got many explanations and reasons and remedies to 
offer. The numerous dicta propounded there are being experienced 
in day to day life. Can any modern science say by laboratory experi- 
mental methods as at what date one's marriage will take place, or at 
what time somebody will get a job or will build a house or go abroad. 
But astrology can pinpointed and in unequivocal terms answer these 
queries with almost 80% accuracy. Ofcourse the person making the 
predictions are not able to explain the rationale cause and effect of 
such results in a manner convincing to the inquisitive intelligence. 


People at present prepared to accept Astronomy and not As- 
trology because the former is visible and the later is not visible. Ac- 
tually Astrology starts where Astronomy ends As far as human ex- 
periences are concerned both studies are complementing to each 
other Astrological findings are based on Astronomical and Mathe- 
matical and Biological Principles. It is a sad fact that their connect- 
ing links could not be established. It is quite unfortunate that As- 
trology is relegated to the back ground in spite ofits usefulness to 
man in his day-to-day life. 

Even Adivasi life style in India is designed and patterned on 


the lines sanctioned by Astrology. It cannot be and should not be 
separated from the life of Indians. 1ts literature is precious and preg- 
nant with the treasure of wisdom. It is to be explored, studied, as- 
similated, substantiated and propagated. Those who question this 
wonderful result of ancient wisdom are advised to understand it 
fully, apply it to their own life and ifit proves fallacious then only to 
question it. 

The sad fact remains that no intensive effort has been made 
or methodology adopted to teach this subject to their Master citizens 
by the planners and Administrators of Education who do not care to 
have the mind and vision to include the study of Astrology in the 
curriculum. They lack the acumen to realise the worthiness and 
richness of ‘Parasara‘ 'Jaimini' 'Garga' etc. They preferred Chaucer. 
Milton, Johnson, Macaulay etc. to Parasara, Narada, Susrutha, 
Bharatha, Chanakya etc. because these were not English. One can 
understand the Alien Administrations neglecting the Indian seers. 
But it is a paradox that even after India got independence the plan- 
ners have not realised this unpardonable lapse and irreparable dam- 
age done to Indian wisdom. 


There has been a dearth of good books on Astrology which 
present materials in a lucid, simple and intelligent style, avoiding 
technical jargon and quotation from source books. In the present 
book the materials have been arranged in simple style comprising of 
smaller units in a systematic and comprehensive manner to enable 
the learner to learn astrology. Starting fromfundamental principles 
of astrology, the lessons take the learner step by step to the deeper 
‘understating of all the technical aspects of Astrology. 

TI hope this book will be accepted by every one and will be 
found more useful in understanding the basic principles of Astrol- 
ogy and thereby making fruitful my humblest effort in propagating 
Indian Astrology. 


N.E.Muthuswamy. 


Trivandrum 
20th January 1998 


Contents 


1. 


Signs(Raasi) 


2. Planets(Grahaas) 


. Stars: Nakshathra,Constellations 
. Lords ofthe 12 Signs Raasyadhipas 
. Houses(Bhava)Ascendant(Lagna) 


Bhavas and its significations 
The Horescope-Jathaka or Janmakundali 


. Benefic and Malefic nature of Planets 
. Own Sign,Basic Sign, Exaltation 


Mutual Relationship between Planets 


. Aspects of Planets 

. Characteristics and Classification of Signs 
. General Rules for Judging Horoscope 

. A Great Horoscope 

. Ruling Periods of Planets 

. Balance of Period 

. Bhukthi or Apahara 

. Periodwise Analysis of Horoscope 

. Analysis of Horoscopes 

. Lords of Constellations Nakshatraadhipas 
. The Planets(Grahaas) 

. Sun(Ravi) 

. The Sign Siunha(Leo) 

. Moon(Chandra) 

. The Sign Kataka 

. Mars(Kuja) 

. The Sign Maesha 

. The Sign Vrischika(Scorpio) 

. Mercury(Budha) 

. The Sign Mithuna(Gemini) 


136 
141 
150 
157 
164 
173 
178 
186 
189 


195 
204 


31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 


41 
42 
43 


44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 


49 


50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 


o4 


55. 


56 


57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 


The Sign Kanya (Virgo) 

Jupiter (Guru) 

The Sign Dhanus (Sagittarius) 

The Sign Meena (Pisces) 
Venus(Sukra) 

The Sign Vrushabha (Taurus) 

The Sign Thula (Libra) 

Saturn(Sani) 

The Sign Makara (Capricorn) 

The Sign Kumbha (Aquarius) 

Raahu and Kethu (The Nodes) 
Mandi (Gulika) 

Calculation of the Longitudes of Planets 
Longitudes of theAscendent 
Shodasavarga 

More About Vargas 

Longitudes of Bhaavas 

Signs and Houses 

Western Methods ofHouse Division 
Matching of Horoscopes for Marriage 
Muhoortha 

Some Important Nithya-Doashaas 
Goachara(Transit) 

Introduction to Prasna 

Judgement of Horoscope 

First step of Judgement 

Lords of Houses 

Judgement of Houses 

Some other common rules of Judging Houses 


Peculiarities of the 12 Houses 


Signs (Rasi) 


Before we begin to learn Astrology it becomes necessary to 
understand clearly a few technical terms which are used through- 
out our lessons. Perhaps you might have learnt these terms. As 
such let us start with an attempt to appreciate some such terms, 
Signs - (Rasi), Planet (Graha), Star (Nakshatra), House (Bhava), 
Period (Dasa), and Ascendent (Lagna). 

In this chapter we start with an attempt to learn about the 
technical terms in Astrology like (Rasi) Planet (Graha), Star (Nak- 
shathra), House (Bhava), Period (Dasa) and Ascendant (Lagna), etc. 


Unit 1 
Sign (Rasi) 


Astrologers use the term 'Rasi' (Sign) to denote the position 
of an object in a particular place and direction and also to denote its 
position in time. For instance, suppose a person is approaching you, 
ordinarily you would say that the person is coming to you, say from 
the southeast direction; but if you were an astrologer you would say 
that the person approaches you through a specific 'Sign'. This space 
around you is divided into a specified number of Signs, so that the 
location of any object is possible to be defined by stating the par- 
ticular Sign corresponding to its position with respect to you. Simi- 
larly the time is also divided into a specified number of ‘Signs’, as 
change of time is realised with reference to the motion of the Sun 
(or other celestial bodies) relative to us. 


In Astrology, the position of an object with respect to the ob- 
server is specified by an imaginary circle (ellipse) symmetrically 
surrounding the observer. This imaginary circle (ellipse) is divided 
into 12 equal angular parts radiating from the centre (observer). 
Thus each angular part would be 360 degrees divided by 12 = 30 
degrees in extension. This angular section is called a ‘Rasi’ or Sign 
Thus 1 Sign = 30 degrees. To fix the position of any object, one 


2 A Course in Indian Astrology 
should also have a fixed object to get a reference point - for example 
a fixed star. From the line connecting the observer and the fixed 
object we mark out a 30 angular section - which is the first ‘Sign’ 
(Rasi)- This is followed by the next eleven ‘Signs’. 

Time also is divided to 12 Signs. For instance the time reck- 
oned from the Sunrise on a day till the next Sunrise (24 hours) also 
is divided into 12 angular sections, each being 30 degrees. In fact 
the Sunappears to as if, it is making a relative elliptic motion around 
us during this period. (We will learn later that this happens be- 
cause ofthe rotation and revolution ofearth). 

In this method of subdivision of space and time into 12 Signs, 
each one is given a Specific name, starting from the first:- 


Sr.No.Namef Rasi Sign Angle from the 
reference line on 
observer facing 
east in depress 


1.Mesha (Aries) 0° -30° 

2. Vrishabha (Taurus) 30° -60° 

3.Mithuna (Gemini) 60° 90° 

4. Kataka/Karkataka (Cancer) 90° - 120° 
5 Simha (Leo) 120° - 150° 
6.Kanyaa (Virgo) 150° - 180° 
7.Thulaa (Libra) 180° + 210" 
8.Vrischika (Scorpio) 210° - 240° 
9.Dhanus (Sagittarius) 240° - 270° 
10.Makara (Capricorn) 270° -300° 
11.Kumbha (Aquarius) 300° - 330" 
12Meena (Pisces) 330° - 360° 


These i2 Signs correspond to the names of the 12 solar months 
from Mesha to Meena as considered in Indian Calendar and 
Panchaangas (Almanacs). 

This detail can he studied later. Those who do not know these 
names must learn them in the given order which may not be a ver: 
difficult task. These terms are to be often repeated in the followin{ 
lessons. 

EXERCISE - 1. Draw a circle of about 7 cm radius using a compass 
and divide it into 12 equal angular sections radiating fram the centre, 
each angle being 30. This may be done by drawing the horizontal di- 
ameter and the vertical diameter first; the resulting four quadrants 
are then trisected by four diameters. Mark the segment on the left 
side of the vertical diameter on the upper half, as Mesha. Now mark 


A Course in Indian Astrology 3 
the segments one after anotherin the clockwise direction starting from 
the first, by the names of the consecutive ‘Signs’. Mesha and Vrishabha 
are supposed to lie on the east, Mithunaon the south comer, Kataka 
and Simhaon the south, Kanya on the south - west corner, Thula and 
Vrischika on the west, Dhanus on the north - west corner, Makara and 
Kumbha on the north and Meena on the north * east corner. 

Imagine yourself sitting at the centre ofa circle facing east 
(looking along the radius between Mesha and Vrishabha). If your 
circle expands indefinitely along the circumference you would visu- 
alise the horizon divided into 12 Signs. Now you can describe your 
surroundings by specifying the location of the several objects in- 
cluding very distant ones, making use of the 12 Signs. For instance 
you may say that your left neighbouring house is situated in the 

MEENA Sign, right neighbouring house in MITHUNA Sign. In this 

way position of celestial objectg also may be given in terms of the 

Signs. 

EXERCISE - 2. Get yourself seated in a room facing east. Imagine 
a circle, around your seat and visualise the 12 segments of the circle 
and identify them us the 12 sings from MESHA to MEENA. Make a 
list of the various things around you - Bookshelf, Clock, Calendar, 
T.V.Set, Windows and the like - and mark the Sign in which each of 
them are situated. In short, objects surrounding us may be described 
as occupying the 12 Signs (Rasi). 


Fixed objects like stars are said to occupy a particular Sign. A 
moving object (e.g. Planet) can be described as moving through the 
12 Signs one after another. In children's park we see the Children 
seated in cradles and making circular movements. These circular 
movements take the children through all Rasi. Planets appear to 
revolve around us (the earth) through these Rasi and their position 
in the orbits (Paths) can be located in one ofthe 12 Signs. 

We shall now learn how Sun, Moon, Planets and Stars (which 
are concerned with our life) are related to the 12 Signs. Though the 
movements of Celestial bodies, Sun, Moon, Planets, and Earth are 
complex it would seem to us (on earth) that the Sun as well as the 
Planets and the Moon are revolving around us in an elliptic path. 
This imaginary elliptical broadband through which the celestial 
bodies seem to revolve is known in Astrological language as the 
Zodiac (Rasi chakra). The Sun's path passes through the Zodiac. 


There are 27 Constellations (group of stars) called NAK- 
SHATHRA, remaining fixed beyond the Zodiac at definite positions. 
The Zodiac is supposed to be elliptical in shape and may be divided 
into 12 segments of equal angular extension (each angle being 30 
degree). The Sun takes about 360 days to move through the Zodiac 


4 A Course in Indian Astrology 
from one point to return to the same point. Thus the Sun takes 30 
days (360/12) to pass through one Sign. Likewise the Moon takes 27 
days to revolve around the whole Zodiac consisting of 12 Signs. Thus 
the moon takes (27/12) 2% days to cross a Sign. In the same way 
each Planet takes a fixed time to travel through a Sign. The Sun 
would take about 30 days from the date of entering into each Sign 
and after moving gradually through it finally to leave it and enter 
the next Sign. The interval between the entry of the Sun into a 
Sign and its exit is calleda solar month. The solar months are named 
on the basis of theentry of Sun in each Rasi, passing through it and 
leaving it. When the Sun enters into a Mesha ( ) Sign the 
month Mesha begins and when it leaves the Mesha and enters into 
the next Sign (Vrishabha), Mesha month ends and the month 
Vrishabha begins. This transit takes about 30 days. The 12 months 
are named after Signin which the Sun moves in that month. Thus 
if the month is Vrishabha we can understand that the Sun would 
be occupying the Sign Vrishabha'. Ifa child is born in the month 
‘Kataka' it means that at the time of birth the Sun is occupying the 
‘Kataka’ Sign. 

Likewise at the time of any event taking place in the world, 
each 'Planet' (including the Sun and Moon) would be occupying a 
definite Sign in the Zodiac. The same is true about the stars also. 
Thus at the time ofour birth, the Sun, Moon, Planets andthe Stars 
should be associated with definite locations ofthe Zodiac. The chart 
showing the positions (Signs) occupied by them at the time of our 
birth is called the Jathaka or Janmakundali or horoscope. 


12 2 3 
Meena Vrishabha Mithura' 
1 4 


Raasichakra 
Kumbhe cycle af signs Kataka 
12 sigas 


i) § 7 6 
Dhanu Vrish Thala Kanya 


We have seen that the Zodiac is a belt ofelliptic shape witha 
total of 360 degree spread and that it is divided into 12 parts, each 
of 30 degrees. We have also learnt that these parts are given differ- 
ent names - Mesha, Vrishabha etc. However, Astrologers instead of 


Makara 


A Course in Indian Astrology 5 
marking the Signs on a circular (or elliptical) chart, find it more 
convenient to denote the Planetary inthe Zodiac on a square chart 
as given below: 
EXERCISE .Practice drawing the Sign-chart and’ understand the 
relative position of each Sign so that even without a label or number 


you would identify the Sign from its location in the chart. In north 
India the chart is drawn in a different pattern. as shown alongside.) 


SUMMARY: Looking out into the universe from the earth, we pre- 
sume the existence ofan elliptic of space around us through which the 
Sun. Moon and the Planets appear to move around us. This belt, known 
as the Zodiac is divided into 12 segments through its centre (each an- 

. gle being 360/12 = 30 degrees). Each segment is called a Sign or Rasi. 
Each of the 12 Signs has a specific name: 1.Mesha 2.Vrishabha 3.Mit- 
huna 4. Kataka 5.Simha 6. Kanya 7.Thulaa 8.Vrischika 9.Dhanus 
. 10.Makara 11.Kumbheuand 12. Meena. The serial number of each Sign 
is important. For instance, when we refer to the Kanya Sign we have 
to keep in mind that it is the sixth Sign of the Zodiac. 


Exercise. 1. Draw a cycle of Signs (chart) with serial number and 
name of each Sign in respective columns. 


Exercise. 2. (a) What is the serial number of the Signs, Kanya, 
Vrischika, Simha, Mesha, Meena, Mithuna, Kumbha on the chart of 
Signs? 


Exercise.3.(b) Draw a chart of Signs and mark the names of the 
third, fifth, ninth, eighth, fourth, eleventh, twelfth and second Signs. 


UNIT 2 


Ascendant (Lagna): Just like an year, the time taken by the 
earth to revolve around the Sun, which is about 365 days, is divided 
into 12 parts and each part is denoted by its specific mame (Mesha, 
Vrishabha, etc. the time between a Sunrise to next Sunrise (about 
24 hours) is also divided into 12 parts ofabout 2 hour duration and 
each part is given the name ofthe specific Sign. Thus ifthe Sunrise 
on the first of a month (Hindu month) is at 6.30 A.M., about two 
hours from that time is the first Sign (this means that this Sign of 
the Zodiac will be on tepeastern horizon, rising with the Sun); the 
next two hours would be the second Sign, and so on. It is evident 
that the two hours before the next Sunrise would be the 12th Sign. 
In other words the Zodiac is divided into 12 Signs - Mesha, 


Vrishabha,........ ; Meena. Due to the rotation of the earth around 
its' OWN. imaginary axis, it seems that the Zodiac as a whole rotates. 
Hence at each time there will be a particular Sign rising on the 
eastern horizon. This is the rising Sign corresponding to the time in 


6 A Course in Indian Astrology 
question. On any day Sunrise would be corresponding to that Sign 
in which the Sun is located. As time goes on (that is as the earth 
rotates) the Zodiac rotates and one after another each of the 12 
Signs gradually appear on the eastern horizon in their order (Me- 
sha to Meena). You would now be having a doubt, namely which 
Signs of 30 degree each, starting from the line (imaginary) drawn 
connecting the earth to the distant star Aswini. From this line mark 
out an angle of 30 degrees. This segment of the Zodiac is the Sign 
Mesha. The time of the year when the Sun would be found in this 
Sign is Sign of the Zodiac. As the Sun takes one month to move 
through a Sign, it follows that the Sign of the Zodiac in the eastern 
horizon at Sunrise will be that Sign bearing the name ofthe Hindu 
month (Mesha. Vrishabha etc.). This meaus that at Sunrise the Sun 
would be located within 30° from the line joining the earth and the 
star Aswini. Imagine for a moment that the earth does not rotate 
but only revolves around the Sun. Then during the month Mesha 
the Sun would appear to move away from the line earth-Aswini. 
After Mesha and during the month Vrishabha the angle between 
the earth-Aswini fine and the earth-Sim line would be more than 
30°. and less than 60°. In other words the Sun will be moving in the 
Sign Vrishabha. Hence if earth is considered as a point (ignoring its 
rotation) we can locate the Sun by specifying the.angle below the 
earth-Aswini line and the earth-Sun line. This angle is called the 
‘longitude’ of the Sun. For moving through one Sign (30° the Sun 
would take one month, to be more exact the earth revolves around 
the Sun at the rate of 30° in a month. Hence the apparent move- 
ment of the Sun will be nearly 1° per day. 


Now due to the rotation of the earth (one rotation 360” per 
day), it appears to us that the Sun as well as the Zodiac is rotating 
from east to west, making one rotation per day. Therefore during 
each monththe Signof the Zodiac appearing at the eastern horizon 
with the Sun will be the one named after the month. After Sunrise 
the Signs of the Zodiac rotate with the Sun (apparently) and each of 
the successive Signs would appear at the eastern horizon one after 
another in the regular order. We can calculate, which Sign of the 
Zodiac would be in the eastern horizon at the time ofany event -for 
example a birth. This Sign (Rasi) which is found in the eastern 
horizon at any specified time is called the Ascendant or Lagna 
(Udayalagua/Rising Sign). Thus ifa child is born at 11 A.M. on the 
first day ofthe month Vrischikawe can findout the Lagna (Ascend- 
ant). 


Let the Sunrise on that day be at 6.30 A.M. The rising Sign 


A Course in Indian Astrology 7 
on that day is Vrischika. Therefore 6.30 to 8.30 A.M., is the time 
when the Sign Vrischika would be on the eastern horizon. The next 
Sign Dhanus will be on the eastern horizon during the next 2 hours 
(8.30 to 10.30 A.M.). From 10.30 A.M. the Sign Makara would rise 
and continue to be on the eastern horizon till 12.30 noon. Therefore 
the Ascendant of the child born at 11 A.M. in the month of Vris- 
chika will be in the Sign Makara. 

This information itself, namely that the child is born in the 
Makara-Lagna, would indicate, quite a lot about the behaviour and 
general features of that child. 


Planets (Grahaas) 


UNIT 3 


While some celestial bodies are continuously moving, some 
others are fixed. Stars are comparatively fixed while planets re- 
volve around the stars. So also there are satellites which revolVe 
around their planets. For example the Sun is a star (for conven- 
ience Sunis considered a Graha) and Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus 
and Saturn are important planets of thesolar system, and are col- 
lectively called planets for astrological purpose. (Actually the word 
'Graha' means that which influences the hfe but in current usage 
this word has been used as a Synonym to planets which is not apt. 
This is why people object to consider Raahu and Kethu as Graha 
because they are not planets. But according to the real meaning of 
the word Graha (the celestial body that exerts influence), Raahu 
and Kethu also exert influence on man and so there is no harm in 
considering them also as Graha. 


For purpose of calculation and location ofthe celestial objects 
with respect to the earth we may assume that the planets are re- 
volving around us (the earth) along the Zodiac. Thus we use the 
phrases like 'the Sunrises, and sets and the Sun enters a Sign' etc. 
This is only for mathematical convenience. It must be clearly un- 
derstood that the-ancient Achaaryas correctly understood the com- 


8 ACourse in Indian Astrology 
plex movements of the celestial objects, more or less as they are 
known today. (It is to be noted that though earth is a planet in the 
real sense it is not considered as a Graha in Astrology because it 
does not exert any influence on man in astrological sense). 

Though you know the English terms for the Planets their 
terms used in Hindu Astrology also is to be learnt. So please note 
the following terms. 

Sun * Ravi; Moon - Chandra; Mars - Kuja;Mercury - Budha; 
Jupiter - Guru; Venus - Sukra; Saturn - Sani (Mandi); Nodes - 
Raahu and Kethu. 

The above 9 celestial bodies are called Graha as in Astrologi- 
cal parlance. Raahu and Kethu are two shadow Planets (Chaya 
grahas). Moreover for the purpose of accurate prediction the As- 
trologers particularly in Kerala also take into account Gulika or 
Mandi. For the present we proceed with the set of 9 Planets includ- 
ing Raahu and Kethu. 

According to the theory of Astrology these planets bestow upon 
us or to be more apt indicate in advance all the experiences, suffer- 
ing and our spiritual and physical dispositions. But in common use 
the statement has gained currency that the planets are giving good 
or bad results which has been inviting criticism from the nonbeliev- 
ers. The planets do so by their positions at the birth-time. These 
planets, as already stated, are continuously moving around the earth 
(or appear to do so) through the Zodiac at different but definite 
speeds. The period taken by each planet to move through one Sign 
of Andiae is gj en helow- 


Planet Time required to Period of each 
cross the sign planet to revolve 
round the Sun 


Sun oe DO daa 
Moon 2 ays 2, * . 27 days, 7 hrs, 48 minutes 


Mars 45 days 587 days 

Mercury 30 days 88 days 

Jupiter 1 year 11 yrs, 10 months 
Venus 30 days 228 days 

Saturn 2 1/2 years . 29 yrs, 5 1/2 months 
Rahu 18 years Melt. 

Kethu lfty@ars wart 


Raahu and Kethu are the two points ofintersection between 
the apparent elliptic paths of the Sumand of the Moon and these 


A Course in Indian Astrology 9 
points appear to revolve in a direction opposite to those of planets. 

As already stated each planet is moving with a particular 
velocity and regularity at each moment and so different Planets 
would be located at different points or spots in the Zodiac even at a 
particular moment. 

Consider this. When several boats are constantly moving with 
different speeds on waters around an elliptic island, for an observer 
from the island the positions of the boats would be different at each 
moment -one is far advanced, another on the same line, another 
just behind, yet another far behind, After a while the speedier boat 
overtakes and advances before the less speedier boat and the boat 
which was in an advanced position will be now behind. The relative 
positions of these moving boats can be fixed at any moment in terms 
of angles which they make with reference to the observer from the 
island. We may use the system of 12 Signs in locating the above 
boats (Please refer to the notes given for Rasi in the previous Unit). 


Let us have one more striking example. Imagine that there is' 
a big running track of 9 sections around a stadium. And through 
the tracks 7 runners are running clockwise at different speeds and 
two are running anticlockwise and you are observing them from 
the middle of the stadium. You will see these runners at different 
spots with different distance from each other. If you, at a particular 
moment decide to mark their positions in the track you will' decide 
their relative angular positions from you and note each runner ata 
different degree of angle. Ifone runner is between 30 to 60 degrees 
you can say that he is in the Mesha Rasi and if some runner is 
between 180 to 210 degrees you can say that particular runner is in 
Thulaa Rasi and in this way all the runners can be located. 


One more thing. When you mark the position of the runners 
just look in to your watch and ifit is 8'0 clock you can say that at 
8'0 clock the runners were at particular points of degrees. In this 
way if you mark the points occupied by the runners at other time 
measures then it can be said that at time the runners were at points 
different from the former points. It need not be said that by this 
time the runners might have reached different points and this mark- 
ing will be entirely different from the former marking. So every 
moment the positions of the runners in the tracks will be changing. 
The same will be the case of the runners who are running anti- 
clockwise also, that is always changing at every moment. 

ln a similar way when a child is born Gs coming to the earth 
by inhaling the first breath) each planet would be touching (while 
moving at very great speed) a specific pointin the Zodiac. With the 


Ig A Course in Indian Astrology 
help of the Almanac (Panchaanga) we can find out the positions or 
more precisely to say the points touched by the planets at the time 
ofthebirth ofa child. Not only the birth of the child, but all events, 
like the inauguration of a function, the taking charge of ministry, 
the laying of foundation, the time of marriage, and the very mo- 
ment an idea strikes your mind, can be assessed using the almanac. 
The position of thecelestial bodies can be marked with the help of 
Panchaanga for all these events. The time and position of planets 
of an event are the basic tools for prediction of future of that event 
and as such very high accuracy is needed in noting the time of every 
event. The more accurate the time, the more accurate the predic- 
tion is. 

Let us take the time of birth of a child at 6.30 A.M. on 18-06- 
1984 (the month of Mithuna in Indian calendar). At this moment 
the Sun touches a specific point in the Sign Mithuna, the Moon a 
point in Kumbha, Mars in Thulaa, Mercury in Vrishabha, Jupiter 
in Dhanus, Venus in Mithuna, Saturn in Thulaa, Raahu in 
Vrishabha, and Kethu in Vrischika, That is to say that at the time 


Jusiter Kethu 


of birth the planets were moving in the Signs described above (or 
might have touched a point in that Sign). The positions of the plan- 
ets can be found out from the Panchaanga for the year. Thus a 
chart will come out as aresult of your attempt in marking positions 
of theplanets and this chart showing the position of each Planet at 
the time of birth of a childis called the Horoscope or Jathaka or 
Janmakundali ofthe child born. The horoscope of a child born of 
18-06-1984 (4th Mithuna) is given below. 


If you have a Pancliaanga of the year just make a reference to 


A Course in Indian Astrology Ii 
the page where the planetary position for the month of Mithuna is 
given. 

The given horoscope may be carefully observed. Compare it 
with that of your horoscope. You will notice that while inyour horo- 
scope there is a marking 'LA' or ASC mone ofthecolumns that is 
not to be seen in the above horoscope. Yes, we have purposely omit- 
ted itfor the time being. (LA is the abbreviation for Lagna and ASC 
for Ascendant). 

In the Panchaanga or Almanac (one may be available with 
you also) on the page corresponding to every month you will find 
the planetary positions marked in a square column like the above 
one. This is the Rasi chakra or chart for that month. On perusal of 
the chart you will find that in each column (Rasi) the names of the 
planets or their abbreviations are given. ln some columns there 
will be one planet. In some others there will be two or more planets, 
and in some columns there will not be any planet at all. This indi- 
cates that on the first date of that month the planets were moving 
through these Rasis. You also find that there is something written 
in the middle square of the chart. These are the dates and times 
when one planet is moving from one Rasi to the next Rasi 


For instance in the Panchaanga for the current year you will 
also be having one in your regional language. You can find the Plan- 
etary positions on the first date of Mesha for the year 1977-78 are 
as follows. 

Budha (Mercury) is in the Sign Meena; But it is also given in 
chart (in the central square) that the same Budha (Mercury) leaves 
the Sign of Meena on the 4th of month at 11.41 A.M. and enters 
Mesha (the next Sign). Therefore it is to be deduced that till 11.41 
A.M. on 4th in the month of Mesha, Mercury is in the Meena Rasi 
and after that, is 11.41 A.M., Budha (Mercury) will be in the Mesha 
Rasi Therefore in the birth chart (horoscope) ofa child born before 
this time (in this month) Budha is to be marked in the Sign Meena 
and for births in this month beyond this time and date, the Budha 
is to be marked in the Sign Mesha. In this way all the planetary 
positions at the time of birth can be obtained fromthe Panchaanga 
of the particular time of a day in a month of an year. You will ob- 
serve that the position of moon is not given in the Rasi chart given 
in the Panchaanga. This is because the moonis changing its posi- 
tion every day. 

EXERCISE. From the Almanac pertaining to the current year.or 


for any other year, available with you obtain the positions of the plan- 
ets (except Moon) fer the time you are reading this lesson. Draw out a 


12 A Course in Indian Astrology 
chart and mark the date and exact time to the seconds in the chart. 
Try other times also. Prepare some six charts like this. 

Naturally you might be wondering at the purpose of know- 
ing the positions of the planets at the time of birth; and to satisfy 
your curiosity note carefully what is written below. 

The basic tenets of Astrology are that the planets indicate the 
mental and physical experiences one would fc having in every mo- 
ment in day to day life. Such experiences may be sometimes harm- 
ful and sometimes beneficial to us. But all these experiences, it has 
been discovered by the sages, are related to the planets and their 
positions at the time of birth or other events. Itis necessary to learn 
what effects each planet indicates to a native by its relative posi- 
tions and we are giving general - a very general- description about 
matters signified by each Planet. 


1. SUN: The Sun is said to signify the self (the soul). He also 
signifies the father of the person. This broadly means that matters 
relating to the self and father are to be judged from the position of 
the Sun in the horoscope. That is to say if somebody wants to know 
about the experiences, his fathex.willhave at a particular date, you 
as an astrologer, will look into his horoscope and note the position 
of the Sum and from the horoscope and answer the query about the 
father. In astrological language the same is explained as the Sun is 
Atmakaraka and Pithrukaraka (meaning the significator of soul 
and father). 

Among the planets the Sunhas the status of theking. Power 
and authority are with the Sun. Respiration, mouth, throat, spleen, 
conscience, intelligence, individuality, courage, paternal matters, 
government, devotion to God, leadership, ability to withstand suf- 
fering, immunity, fame, self-reliance, liberal attitude, honour, pro- 
gressive qualities, trustworthiness etc. are all indicated by the Sun. 
If the Sun is favourable and powerful in the horoscope the native 
will enjoy all the above qualities and effects. Ifthe Sunis weak in 
the horoscope all the above aspects will be weak too and the results 
will be harmful to the above aspects. For example a weak Sun in 
the horoscope indicates strained relation with the father, feeble- 
mindedness, trouble from government, ailments to chest, throat, 
spleen and other parts of the body Signified by Sun, lesser immu- 
nity to withstand diseases, and cheating mentality etc. The Sun js 
the significator of many more items.. 

2. MOON: The moon is related to mind and hence described 


as the Matrukaraka and Manakaraka (significator) of mind and 
mother. All queries about the mind and mother.can be predicted 


A Course in Indian Astrology 13 
from the position of the moon in the horoscope A powerful moon 
gives favourable results whereas a weak moon offers bad results in 
the spheres signified by moon viz. Conception, delivery, life before 
adulthood, change of occupation, tendency to change every thing 
every now and then, stomach, breast, beauty, digestive power, blood, 
milk, gems, etc., In the royal family of planets moon is given the 
position of the queen. Among the Rasis the moon is the Lord of 
Kataka. 

3.MARS : Mars is described as the Sahodarakaraka; This 
means that matters pertaining to one's brother (and sister) are to 
be judged from the position of Mars in the horoscope. So also the 
desires, primitive tendencies, self-dependency, power to withstand 
strain, rash boldness, adventures, physical strength, independent 
nature, desire for position etc., are all related to Mars. If Mars is 
strongly positioned in the horoscope the native will be bold, adven- 
turous, strong, courageous, militant, warrior like etc. A weak Mars 
will make the native coward, timid, sickly, treacherous, upstart etc. 
Mars is the Lord of two Signs. Mesha and Vrischika (Aries and 
Scorpio). 

4. MERCURY: Matters concerning Maternal uncle are de- 
noted by Mercury. So he is said to be Mathulakaraka. Intelligence, 
cleverness to understand quickly, ability for convincing arguments, 
knowledge about wonders, desire for foreign travel, knowledge of 
Vedanta, education, tendency to leave things unfinished, the ten- 
dency to do so many things at the same time, multilinguist, elo- 
quence, accountancy, auditing, advocacy etc., are attributed to 
Mercury. Mithuna and Kanya Rasi belong to Budha. 

5. JUPITER: Jupiter is the significator of offspring and 
wealth. Character, seriousness, meditation, prayer, success, hon- 
our, fortune, Punya acquired in previous birth, divine favour, fame, 
religious thought, wealth, good character, honesty, justice and health 
are the few matters attributed to Jupiter. The Jupiter if strongly 
and favourable positioned in the horoscope good results in the above 
sphere will be experienced by the native whereas the weakly posi- 
tioned Jupiter will mar all the good aspects in the above spheres, 
Jupiter is the Lord of Dhanu and Meena Rasis. 

6.VENUS: Venus indicates matters concerning spouse, (wife 
or husband) partners in all dealings, material pleasures, affection 
to family members, sexual pleasures, ornaments, vehicles, sensual 
satisfaction, bedroom facilities, passions, tendency to enjoy pleas- 
ures, semen, vitality, and a lot of other matters. Venus is the Lord 
of the Signs -Vrishabha (Taurus) and Thulaa (Libra). 


14 A Course in Indian Astrology 

7. SATURN: Saturn being a slow moving planet it confers a 
general slowness in all aspects of the native's life, disappointment, 
incompatibility, sorrows, unplements, endurance, frugality, regpon- 
sibilities, industry, imprisonment, stubbornness, servitude, labour, 
long life, all sorts of difficulties, servants, subordinates and many 
others are indicated by Saturn. A favourable Saturngives good re- 
sults in the above matters while an unfavourably positioned Saturn 
will give the maximum trouble to the native in the above spheres. 
The Signs - Makara & Kethu are assigned to Saturn. 

8 & 9- RAAHU & KETHU (NODES): These two are not 
planets in the correct sense because they are only two points. But 
as has been said earlier, in Hindu Astrology, they are also called 
Graha’ because they also exert influence on human beings. So in 
analogy, as other Graha are being called planets, these two are also 
called planets. So you while make reference to these two, use the 
words Graha or nodes only and not the word planet. 

In fact Raahu and Kethu are the two points of intersection of 
the apparent paths ofthe Sun andmoon (elliptic). So they are known 
as Thamograhas (shadowy Graha). 

Some people metaphorically describe Raahu and Kethu as 
serpents that 'swallow' the Sun and moon on eclipses (Grahanain). 
This legend has no place in Astrology. 

Raahu and Kethu signify low caste birth, contact with eld- 
erly women, evil thoughts, contacts with bad people, spleen disor- 
ders, and gas trouble. Raahu is concerned with one's grand father 
(paternal) while Kethu is concerned with maternal grandfather. 

The convention is that these two do mat. possess any Sign/in 
the Zodiac. But some scholars attribute the ownership of house to 
these two also. Rahu owns Virgo. Kethu owns Pisces 


A Course in Indian Astrology 1S 


Stars: Nakshathra, 
Constellations: 


UNIT 4 


Having learnt some details cf the planets and their continu- 
ous movements (rotations) around the earth, let us now consider 
how the planets and the Signs ofthe Zodiac are related to the stars 
(constellation or asterism) (Nakshathra). We have divided the ap- 
parent path of the planets - Zodiac - into 12 Signs. We have also 
learnt about the period each planet takes to move through a Sign. 
Thus the Sun would cross a Sign in solar month (of about 30 days). 
While the moon takes only 2 4 days to cross the same Sign so that 
in a period of 12 x 2% = 27 days the moon takes a complete cycle 
through the whole of the Zodiac which the Sun completes in 360 
days. We divide the Zodiac into 12 Signs of 30 extension starting 
from the imaginary line drawn fromearth to the distant star (con- 
stellation) Aswini. The stars are (assumed to remain) fixed in posi- 
tion and along the Zodiac. The Astrologers have selected a set of 27 
prominent stars, which remain near the orbit of the planets. 27 
such constellations have been chosen to mark the positions of the 
Zodiac or through which the Zodiac passes . Each star therefore 
should be at a definite angle from the earth Aswini line. In other 
words each star would be located in a particular Sign of the Zo- 
diac. Since the constellations chose for this purpose are 27 in number 
and are distributed in 12 Signs, 2 % stars fall in a particular Sign. 
And each star covers 13" 20', (Thirteen degrees and twenty min- 
utes in a Sign). Thus the stars Aswini, Bharani and “4 of Krithika 
are in the first Sign Mesha (within 30° of the earth-Aswini line). 
This means that the first quarter (each quarter measures 3" 20') of 
the constellation Krithika falls within 30" (Mesha) and the remain- 
ing portions (3 quarters 10 ) of that constellation fall in the next 
Sign Vrishabha (that is within 30° to 60'). Similarly the entire 360° 


16 A Course in Indian Astrology 
of the Zodiac are occupied by 27 constellations. So each constella- 
tion (Nakshathra) measures 13" 20' (360° i 27 = 13° 20'). So each 
Planet moving around the earth can be located in a Sign of the 
Zodiac and in a Nakshathra through which it passes at the moment 
under consideration . However, a Sign means a span of 30" and 
when we say that the Sun is moving in the Sign Simha we say that 
the Sun is situated between angles 120° and 150° from the earth- 
Aswini line; for, Simha is the fifth Sign from Mesha. During the 
month Simha, Sun would be moving within this arc of the Zodiac. 
(Let us remind you again that this is the apparent movement of the 
Sun. In actual fact earth revolves around the Sun while the. Sun is 
fixed). So also the planets except moon revolve around the earth 
which is revolving itself around the Sun. These complex movements 
may be treated for purpose of calculation only and it appears to an 
observer situated on the earth, as the planets moving around the 
earth apparently. Ancient sages and astronomers ofourshave clearly 
understood and analysed all these movements with great precision 
and scientific perfection. 


Like the Sun, all the planets are moving around the Zodiac 
and their positions can be described at any instant approximately 
im the Sign in which they are located at that instant. When the Sign 
in which a planet is situated at any instant is given, we do not 
locate the planet exactly but only locate it in a particular region of 
space, measuring 30". 

A more exact location is possible by using the constellation 
(star) which appear along the earth-planet direction. As already 
Stated, the Zodiac is divided into 27 parts, each with a span of 
360°/27 = 13° 1/3" ( or 13" 20"), and each such part is named after 
the prominent constellation along that direction. The first 13" 20! 
to 26" 40' from the starting line earth-Aswini is named after the 
star. Bharani which falls in that direction, and so on Jt must be 
noted that the moon makes a movement of 13" 20' in one day. So 
day after day the moon would be crossing each star, and that day 
would be governed by that particular constellation. Almanacs where 
the positions of planets for the beginning of each month are given 
do not mark the position of the moon. This has to be obtained from 
the governing star for that day given in the main daily chart for 
each month. 


The word ‘star’in Astrological parlance has abroad connota- 
tion. It is not a twinkling object alone as is understood in daily use. 
It is the zone of 13" 20' where the twinkling object is also located So 
when it is said that a particular planet is in a star for example ¢« 


A Course in Indian Astrology 17 
moon is in Aswini- it means that the particular planet is in the zone 
ofthe particular star. In this case the moon is inthe zone of 13° 20". 
On the basis of the explanation yeu will have to remove the base- 
less notion that the twinkling objects are not the deciding factors. 
Actually the zones where the stars are located and each point within 
that zone touched by the planets at the time of birth or any other 
similar event is relevant in Astrology. We will also explain later 
why only 27 constellations are dealt with while there are scores of 
stars in the heaven. 

Thus, the position (Sign) of the Sun can be understood from 
the name of the solar month (if the month is Simha, then the Sun 
is moving in the Sign Simha or Leo); and the Sign in which moon is 
moving can be understood from the governing star (Nakshathra) of 
that day. 

As there are 27 stars distributed among the 12 Signs each 
sign should have 27 + 12=2 % stars. Each star has 4 quarter = 
star = 3° 20'). Thus each Sign will be ‘governed’ by 2 % x 4=9 
quarter-stars. (?) The Sign Mesha corresponds to the stars Aswini, 
Bharani and the first quarter of Krithika. % of Krithika (the last 3 
quarters of it), Rohini and two quarters (that is half) of Mrigaseersha 
fall in the Sign Vrishabha. Remember a star denotes 13° 20! of the 
Zodiac and a quarter of a star (Nakshathra-pada) denotes an angle 
of 3° 20'. Here is a list ofthe asterism, their location and the Signs 
in which they are located. 


Sign Longitude in Constellation in Angular span 
the sign the sign (Longitude) in 
Zodiac 
Mesha 00-13° 20° Aswini 00 -—13° 20° 
13° 20'-26° 40' Bharani 13° 20' - 26" 40' 
26° 40'- 30° Krithika 1/4 26° 40" -30" 
Vrishabha' 00° — 10° Krithika 3/4 30° -40° 
10° — 23° 20' Rohini 40° - 53° 20' 
23° 20°- 30' Mrigaseersha 1/2 53° 20' -60° 
Mithuna 00° - 06° 40° Mrigaseersha 1/2 60°- - 66° 40' 
06° - 40' ~20° - 00' Ardra 66° 40’ — 80° 
20° - 80° Punarvasu 3/4 80° - -90° 
Kataka 00° - 03° - 20° Punarvasu 1/4 90° - - 93° 20' 
03° 20° -16° 40' Pushya 93° 20' - 106° 40' 
16° - 40' - 30° Aaslesha 106” 40' -120° 
Simha 00°- 13° 20° Magha 120° - 133° 20' 


13° 20° —26° 40' Poorvaphaalguni 133" 20'- 146° 40' 
26° 40' - 30° Uthra 1/4 146° 40°- 150° 


18 


A Course in Indian Astrology 


Kanya 00 - 10° Uthra 3/4 150° - 160° 
.10 - 23° 20 Hastha 160° - 173° 20' 
28° 20' - 30° Chithra 1/2 173° 20' - 180° 
Thula 0-6° 40' Chithra 1/2 180° - 186° 40' 
6° 40' - 20° 0 Swaathi 186° 40'-- 200° 
20° - 30° Visaakha 3/4 200° - 210° 
Vrischika 0°-3° 20' Visakha 1/4 210° - 213° 20' 
3° 20-16°40' Anuraadha 213°20'- 226° 40' 
16° 40' - 30°.00 Jyeshta 226°40' - 240° 
Dhanus 0° - 13° 20' Moola 240° - 253° 20' 
13° 20' - 26° 40’ Poorvashada 253° 20' - 266° 40' 
26°40' - 30° Uthrashada 1/4 266° 40' - 270° 
Makara 0° - 10° Uthrashada 3/4 270° - 280° 
10° - 23" 20' Sravana 280° - 293" 20' 
23° 20' - 30° Dhanishta 1/2 293°20' - 300 
Kumbha 0° - 6° 40’ Dhanishta 300° - 306° 40’ 
6° 40' - 20° Sathabhishak 306° 40' - 320° 
20°- 30° Poorvabhadrapada % 320° - 330° 
Meena 0° - 3°20' Poorvabhadrapada'/. 330° - 333° 20' 
3° 20' - 16°40' Utrproshtapada 333° 20' - 346° 40' 
16°40' -30° Revathi 346 °40' - 360° 


If you are using a conventional almanac, find out the star 
corresponding to the time (i.e.. birth time) and also the number of 
Ghatis and Vighati fromthe beginning ofthe particular star till the 
birth time. Convert the Ghatis and Vighati into Hours, Minutes 
and seconds on the basis of the following table. (a short explanation 
about Ghatis and Vighati will be in order at this place) 

(1 Ghati = 60 Vighatis; 

lhour=2% Ghatis 

1 Minute = 2 % vighatis; 

1 Ghati = 24 Minutes 

1 Vighati = 24 Seconds) 

Ghati is called Naadika and Vighati is called Vinaadika also. 

For instance, ifat the time ofbirth ofa child the ruling star is 
Krithika the Moon will be moving in this star; but Krithika is partly 
(upto the first quarter) in the Sign Mesha and partly (last 3 quar- 
ters) in the Sign Vrishabha. Thus we have to differentiate at which 
quarter of Krithika the birth time falls, to fix, the position of the 
Moon. Suppose Krithika lasts for 62 Ghatis (as given in the alma- 
nac) and suppose the birth time corresponds to 25 Ghatis after the 
beginning of Krithika. So 1 quarter of Krithika is 62 + 4= 15 Ghatis 
and 30 Vighatis.. The second quarter is from 15 Ghati to:30 Ghati 
in Krithika. The Birth time (25 Ghatis in Krithika) falls in the sec- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 19 
ond quarter of Krithika. which as given in the table above, falls in 
the Sign Vrishabha. So the Moon is in the Sign Vrishabha and not 
in Mesha. 

Now you are in a position to find out the planetary positions 
corresponding to any particular time, by using an almanac. Also we 
have already learnt about the concept of the Ascendant (Lagna), 
which is the Sign rising at the time in question. We will, in due 
course learn how to find out the Lagna correctly. Further, it is far 
more convenient to use an Ephemeris for the year in order to find 
out the 'longitude' (angular distance from the starting point) of the 
Planets correctly and exactly. To avoid a possible confusion we shall 
postpone the description of this correct method of casting a horo- 
scope by using Ephemeris and explain it later. 


Lords of the 12 Signs 
Raasyadhipas 


Unit 5 
Lords of the 12 Signs 


The 12 Signs of theZodiac (Mesha, Vrishabha etc.) have been 
allotted to the seven Planets, Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, 
Venus and Saturn as described below. Though the planets are mov- 
ing continuously, the Signs are allotted to the planets according to 
their position around the Sun and moving position. 


(This means that each planet shows certain affinity to each 


Sign) 
Sun is the Lord of the Sign Simha (only one Lord 
ship.) 
Moon is the Lord of Kataka (only one Lordship) 
Mars is the Lord of Mesha and Vrischika (Lordship of two 
houses) 


Mercury is the Lord of Mithuna and Kanya 

Jupiter is the Lord of Dhanus and Meena 

Venus is the Lord of Vrishabha and Thulaa 

and Saturn is the Lord of Makara and Kumbha 


20 A Course in Indian Astrology 

From the above it can be understood that the Sun and the 
Moon have only one Sign each while the other planets own two 
Signs each. Note that the shadow-Planets Raahu and Kethu do not 
own any Sign. Some scholars assigns Signs to the shadow Planets 
also. Raahu is the lord of .Kanya (Virgo) and Kethu the lord of 
Meena (Pisces). 


Yr shiakhs 
vents. 


3 


Kalaka 
Moon 


laes 14 
Mars 


Simha 
Sun 
5 
Venus | Mercury 
(Ihanys Thala Kanya 


You must be able to know the names and the location of the 
Signs in the Zodiac chart just at a glance; For quickly memorizing 
the Lordships the chart given below will be of help Please draw 
this chart 5 times and put the planets in their appropriate place. 

You should now practice so as to be able to tell the name of 
the Sign and its Lord from its location in the Zodiac chart. 


Lords of the stars 


As the 12 Signs are owned by the planets, so the 27 stars are 
also governed by the $ planets. Each planet is given the Lordship of 
three of the 27 stars as described below. Unlike the distribution of 
the Lordships of the Signs, the Lordship of the stars is equally dis- 
tributed among all the planets, including Raahu and Kethu. 

Each Planet thus has the Lordship of 27/9 = 3 constellations, 
as given in the table in the next page. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 21 


Lordship of Stars 
Stars governed by the Planet 


Planet 
Kethu 1 Aswini 10. Magha 19. Mou la 
enus 3 Bharani 11. Poor a 20. Poor ansadha 
phanigani 

Sun 3. Krithika 12. Lthraphalguni 21. Uthrashaadha 

Moon A Rohini IS. Wastha 22, Sravann 

Murs a Mrignscersha 14, Chitluras 23. Dihanishta 

Raahu B Aardra 15, Swaathi 24. Sathabhishak 

Jupiter 7 Punarvasu 16, isaakha 25, Poor wpro- 
shtupada 

Saturn y Pushy a 17. Anuraadha 2f. Uthraprosbta 
pada 

Mercury 9, Aesleshe, 18. Jyeshta 27, Revathi 


It may be noted that the stars are not split as in the case of 
Rasi. 

Now, you have to master by heart (i) the names ofconstella- 
tions (stars). In each Sign with 2 1A star in each Sign, and 

(ii) the stars under the Lordship (Adhipathya) ofeach Planet, 

First learn by heart the order ofthe Planets as in the above 
table -Kethu, Venus, Sun etc. Tben the sets of three stars - (1) Aswini, 
Magha, Moola, (2) Bharani, Poorvaphaalguni, Poorvaashaadha, ete. 
and so on. You can see that star with the 10th and 19th from it will 
be under the same Lordship. 


EXERCISE: 

1. Name the planets and the Signs they govern. 

2. List the stars corresponding to each Sign in a Sign-chart. 

3. Name of the Lords of (a) Vrischika, Kumbha, Simha and give 
their number (serial) from Mesha. b) Uthrashaadha second quarter. 
(c) Poorva phaalguni, Sathabhishak. (d) Hastha. 

4. If the ruling star of a particular time is Chithra (first quarter) a) 
name the star- Lord. (b) name the Sign in which the Moon is situuted. 

5. List the main planets and five.important matters which each of 
them signify. 

6. Which Planet signifies each of the following: 1. mother, 2. brother, 
3. fortune, 4. vehicle, 5. material pleasures, 6. maternal grandfather, 
7. mind, 8. quarrels, 9. disappointment. 10. longevity. 

7. Which are the planets that take about a month for transitting a 
Sign? 

B. Which is the slowest planet and which is the fastest ? 

9. Specify any time and with the aid of the almanac draw the plan- 
etary chart at that time. 


A Coursei Indian #\stroloss 


Ascendant (Lagna) 
Houses (Bhava) (Sectors) 


UNIT (i 


The experiences (good as well as bad) in the life of a person as 
also all the relations between persons and different aspects of the 
universe. have been classified into 12 parts in Astrology. Similar to 
the division of space and time into 12 parts, human experiences 
(including the previous births of thesoul) and human relations have 
also been divided into 12 distinct sets. These sets are called the 12 
houses or sectors or Bhavaas. 

The Sign at a birth-time is the Janma Lagna (Ascendant) of 
the person. In the birth chart the Lagna will be indicated in that 
Sign which rises in,the east. The Ascendant is marked as the first 
bhava (First House) for the person. Thus having fixed the first 
house, the second, third, etc. are marked in subsequent Signs start- 
ing from the first house, inthe clockwise order. For example, for a 
person whose Lagna (Ascendant) is in the Sign Cancer (Kataka), 
his second house is Simha, third house is Kanya.........: eleventh 
house is Vrishabha and twelfth house is Mithuna (see chart below). 


AA Course in Indian Astrology 23 

If in a horoscope the Ascendant is in the Sign Dhanus. then 
the native has his first house {gr Lagna Bhava) in Dhanus. the 
second house in Makara, thirdhouse in Kumbha.... : eleventh house 
in Thula and twelfth in Vrischika. (See the chart given below). 


lt is evident from the above two examples that each house 
from the first to the twelfth may fall in any 'Sign', depending upon 
the Lagna which is decided by the birth-time.Ifin the first example 
the VII house is Capricorn (Makara), in the second example the VII 
house is Gemini (Mithuna). This is because of the difference be- 
tween the Lagna (I house) in the two instances. 

Another doubt may arise now, We have described in the be- 
ginning that Mesha is the first Sign, Vrishabha the second, and so 
ion. Now why is that the house-number and the Sign-number are 
different. The answer is obvious; Sign and house don't have the 
same meaning. The division of Zodiac into Signs is based on the 
motion of the Sun, while division of the Zodiac into houses is based 
‘on the birth-time (Lagna) and rotation of theearth. 

The identification of the 12 houses in a birth-chart is absolutely 
important as we will learn very soon. Therefore in order to identify 
the houses one should be able to identify the Lagna in each birth- 
chart, for houses are numbered starting from the Lagna. 


Finding the Lagna 


So it would be useful to know the method of finding the Lagna 
(Ascendant) form the birth-time. Accurate methods would be 
described later. For the present we will learn a comparatively easy 
method, which does hot involve complex calculations and concepts. 

The Sign of the Zodiac rising in the eastern horizon at the 
time of birth is the Ascendant or Lagna, that is to say, the rising 
Sign at birth is the Ascendant. We have already learnt that at the 


24 ACourseinIndian Astrology 
Sunrise on each day. that Sign named after the Hindu solar month 
(in which the day falls) will be in the eastern horizon. This is be- 
cause during each month the Sun would be in the corresponding 
Sign of the Zodiac. For example during the month Mesha, the Sun 
occupies (that it moves through) the Sign Mesha (Aries). Thus on 
the first day of Mesha, the Sun and the Sign Mesha would rise 
together, and the Sign Mesha would be at the eastern Horizon for 
about 1/12 of a day (2 Hour) from Sunrise. On the second of Mesha 
* as the Sun would have moved 1 degree in the Sign Mesha, so that 
the Sign Mesha would be 1 degree up in the eastern horizon at 
Sunrise, thus the Sign Mesha would rise 4 minutes earlier than the 
Sun (since 1 degree corresponds to 4 minutes). Hence Mesha Sign 
would be in the eastern horizon from 4 minutes before Suit rise till 
1 hy. 56 niu. after Sun rise. Hence on the second day the rising 
time for Mesha is 1 hr. 56 min. after sunrise. Similarly on the 16th 
of Mesha, the Mesha Sign would be in the eastern horizon only. 2 
hr. 15 x 4 min. = 1 hr after Sunrise. 


Thus the rising period or the rising ofa month would gradu- 
ally fall at the rate or 4 minutes per day and will reduce to zero 
after the 30 th day of that month. 30 x 4 min. = 2 hr. This means 
that the Sim has crossed over to the next Sign and the month also 
would have changed. The rising period on each day of the rising 
Sign can thus be calculated, and it is called the “Udayaathparam” 
(Meaning after Sum rise) rising period of that Sign in that date. 
After fixing the time ofrising of therising Sign, the next 2 hrs. will 
‘be the rising period ofthenext Sign and so ou, till the next Sunrise. 

This is only an approximate method of calculation, because, 
due to the shape of the orbits and the difference between the lati- 
tudes of each place on the earth, the rising periods for each Sign 
will differ from place to place, depending on the latitude. The rising 
period of each Sign (called Raasimaana) has to be calculated for 
each place and these data are usually available in the conventional 
almanacs. These are given usually in Ghatis and Vighatis which 
can easily be converted into hour-minute. (1 Ghati = 24 min; 1 
Vighati = 24 Seconds). Further the Sunrise for each day also varies 
from place to place and from day to day. The time of Sunrise for 
each day also is given in almanacs. 


For example the rising periods (Raasimaana) ofeach Sign at 
a place situated in the latitude 8 3 V N given in the next page- 


A Course in Indian Astro logy 25 


Sign Raasimaana (rising period) 
Ghati - Vighati Hr. Min Sec 
Mesha 4 38 1 51 12 
Vrishabha 5 10 2 04 00 
Mithuna 5 28 2 11 12 
Kataka 5 17 2 06 48 
Simha 4 59 1 59 36 
Kanya 4 55 1 58 = 00 
Thula 5 08 2 03 12 
Vrischika 5 26 2 10 24 
Dhanus 5 21 2 08 24 
Makara 4 53 1 57 12 
Kumbha 4 26 1 46 24 
Meena 4 19 1 43 36 
Total 60. 00Gh 24, 00. 00 


Note that none of the Signs have 2 hrs. as their rising period, 
Some have periods slightly than 2 hrs. and others slightly greater 
than 2 hrs. Now you can forget the temporary concept of 2 hr. for a 
house as suggested in unit 2. 

So it is essential to know the rising periods for each place, as 
well as the time of Sunrise These data are available in any good 
almanac. (find out from your almanac these data). Now let us find 
out the Lagna (Ascendant) and the other houses ofa child born on 
16th of Thula (in the current year) at 9.20 A.M. (IST). The place of 
birth is Thiruvananthapuram (8° 31' N), for which the rising peri- 
ods are given in the above table. Carefully go through the proce- 
dure given below. The Sunrise on the day of birth (given in the 
almanac, for the place is 6.18 A.M. (ST). 


Time or birth 9, 20 A.M. 
Sunrise_ 6. 18 A.M. 
Interval between time 

of birth and Sunrise 3 hr. 02 min. 


The rising Sign is Thula (as the month is Thula). This Sign 
would rise with the Sun on the first of Thula and it would continue 
to be at the eastern horizon for the entire rising period of 2 hr, 3 
min. 12 sec. (as given in the table ofrising periods). Here the birth 
happens to be on the 16th of Thula, so that on 16th the Sign would 
have risen earlier that the Sun by 15/30 of that Sign. Thus 1/2 of the 
Sign would have gone up the horizon, at Sun rise. So only 1 - 15/30 
remains to be risen in the Sign. 1- EV30= 1 - 12 = 1/2 Hence the 


26 A Course in Indian Astrology 
time for which the Sign Thula would be at the eastern horizon — 
[Total rising period 1/2 = (2 hr. 3 min. 12 sec.)] 122= 1 hr. 1 min. 16 
sec. This is the ‘udayaathparam' for the day. 

Hence, Sunrise at 6.18.00 A.M. Sign Thula willbe at the east- 
ern horizon upto 


6 18 00 + 
1 01 36 
7 19 36 «6~A.M. 


At this time the next Sign -Vrischika- would begin to rise; the 
rising period for Vrischika is 2 hr. 10 min. 24 Sec. so that Vrischika 
would be rising from 07.19.36 A.M till 09.30.00 A.M. 


7 19 36 + 
2 10 24 
i) 30 00 


Note that this period includes the birth time (09.20 A.M.). 
Hence at the time of birth the rising Sign was Vrischika and the 
Ascendant for the birth is to be fixed as the Sign Vrischika and so to 
be marked in the horoscope in the Sign Vrischika. 

The same results can be obtained from the interval between 
the birth and Sunrise, by subtracting the rising periods ofeach Sign. 


Interval = 3 hr. 02 m,. 00 Sec. 
Rising period of Thula after 

Sunrise for the day 01 01 36 
Balance 02 00 24 


From this we cannot subtract the next Sign Vrischika 
(02.10.24). Hence the Ascendant is in Vrischika Sign. 
Let us take another example on the same day, the birth time 
being 2.45 P.M. i.e.. 14.45 hrs. Let us now calculate. 


hr. min. sec. 
Birth time 14 45 00 -IST 
Sunrise 06 18__—s0d 
Interval 08 27° 00 - 
Subtracting Thula Raasimaana Ol 01 36 
07 25 24 - 
Vrischika Raasimaana 02 10. 24 
05 15 00 - 
Dhanus Raasimaana 02 08 . 24 
03 06. 36 - 
Makara Raasimaana O1 57 12 
“O01 09 24 


The next Sign Kumbha cannot be subtracted as it has 01.46.24 
as the rising period. Thusthe Kumbha has risen 1 hr. 9 min. 24 sec. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 27 
and continues’ to be in the eastern horizon at the time of birth. In 
wther words the Ascendant is Kumbha. 

Having fixed the ascendant, one can easily construct the plane- 
tary chart using the Almanac. 

In the almanac the daily positions ofall the planets are given 
for each date. (Please refer to the almanac you have with you) The 
daily position is given in degrees, minutes and seconds or past Rasi 
number, minutes and seconds. If Sun is in 03.11,26 it means that 
Sunhas crossed 3 Rasi and now is in 4th Rasi Kataka at 11 minutes 
and 26 seconds. So Sun is to be marked in Kataka 11.26. In this 
way the daily positions of all other Planets are to be found out and 
marked in the respective signs. 


EXERCISE: 1. Draw two Sign charts and mark the Ascendant 
and the house for the two examples described above. 


2. Note the time now (when you are reading this). Construct the 
birth-chart far an imaginary birth at this time, using your almanac, 
(You have to use the Sunrise on the day in question and the 
Raasimaanas for your place, from the almanac with you and not the 
data given in the lesson). 


3. Find out the Ascendant corresponding to 


i) 09.50 A.M. i) 11.05 A.M. iii) 2 P.M. on the 21st Thula at a place 
8 31°N (as described in the lesson). Sunrise 06.19 A.M. 


4. The rising Sign at Sunrise on any day would be the Sign having 
the name ofthat month. Similarly the rising Sign at Sunset will be the 
seventh one starting from the rising Sign at Sunrise. It is sometimes 
called the 'setting-Sign' ‘Asthamayathparam’. For births after Sunset, 
we calculate from the ‘setting-Sign’ (i.e.. rising Sign at Sunset). Try to 
calculate the Ascendant for a birth on 21st Thula as in the previous 
past exercise, but the birth time being 11.05 P.M. (23.05), the Sunset 
being at 17.56 P.M. 


28 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Houses (Bhavaas) and its 
Significations 


UNIT 7 


Having learnt about the 12 houses concerning a person, we 
have to know about the matters signified by each house. Then only 
we would be able to make accurate predictions Houses are also 
known as Bhavaas or Sectors. As already stated, by a skilful scru- 
tiny of each house in the horoscope of a person his entire life can be 
revealed with sufficient accuracy. Therefore you should learn very 
well the significations of each house as listed below, by frequent 
reading and recapitulating. 


Matters to be judged from the Houses 
First house: (Lagna Bhava) 


The native, his body, character, colour, shape, physical consti- 
tution, health, courage, general features, success and failure, pos- 
sibility of enjoyment of various aspects of life, travels, length of life, 
wisdom and several other matters. This bhava is also called the 
Lagna Bhava. 


Second House (Dhanabhaava) 


The second house (Dhana Bhaava) represents chiefly mat- 
ters concerning the financial affairs, profit and loss, material attain- 
ments, stocks and shares, bank-balance, family, right eye, tongue, 
nose, cosmetics, face, speech, food. optimism, manner and source of 
death and the like. 


Third House (Sahoadarabhaaya) 


Courage, capabilities, steadiness, younger brother, neighbours 
help, short journeys. communications, writing, news agency, library, 


A Course in Indian Astrology 29 
rumour, competitions, right ear, arms, throat and the like are to be 
judged from this house {(Sahoadarabhaava). 


Fourth House (Maathrubhaava). 


Mother, residence, house and its environments, private life, 
properties, estates, ancient places, archeological items, experiences 
at old age, hereditary wealth, educational status, school and college 
education, treasures and several others. 


Fifth House (Puthrabhaava). 


Children, Happiness, aptitudes, taste for arts, sports, physi- 
cal and mental pleasures, theatre, horse race, lottery and other 
speculative entertainments, matters of courting, raping, good deeds 
of previous birth and many others. 


Sixth House (Roagabhaava). 


Diseases, cause of disease, cure of thedisease, food and diet, 
service matters, employees, loans, tenants, pets, enemies, dress, 
health, the six tastes and the like. 


Seventh House (Kalathrabhaava). 


Marriage and related matters, legal bondage, partners in busi- 
ness other competiti::::: and elections, those with whom there are 
Financial transactions, opposite party in litigation angers, travel, 
desires, honour and the like. 


Eighth House (Aayurbhaava). 


This is mainly related to one's life span and hence to death 
also. It also decides misfortunes, difficulties, delay, failure, loss, 
imprisonment, fear from enemies, disease, unearned wealth, cause 
of death, insults, aspersions, blames etc. 


Ninth House (Bhaagyabhaava). 


Teacher, father, godliness, grandson, fortune, fame, sense of 
duty, chanting, tapas, temples and places of worship, charities, pil- 
grimage, religion. science, philosophy, higher education, long travel 
etc. 


Tenth House (Karmabhaava). ° 


Fame, aristocracy, status, recognition, honour, the extent to 
which one may rise in life, material attainments, public life, em- 
ployment, nature of job, means of living, Yogis, death ceremonies of 


30 A Course in Indian Astrology 
ones parents, pilgrimage etc. 


Eleventh House: (Laabhabhaava). 


This is the house of gains, friends, colleagues, well-wishers, 
advisors, supporters, fulfilment of expectations and desire, success 
and fruitfulness of activities, foreign collaboration, results of specu- 
lations, elections, legal affairs, profits and gains etc. are to be judged 
from this house. 

It is said that this house represents the totality of the gains 
acquired through all the preceding houses, in other words, earning 
by one's own effort is indicated by the first house, what one gets 
from the family is judged from the second house, gains and writ- 
ings, younger brother and agency are indicated by the third house, 
gains through mother, landed properties and vehicles are indicated 
by the fourth house, earning from lottery, skill games, drama and 
cinema are indicated by the fifth house; gains through loan or serv- 
ice are represented by the sixth house; gains through business part- 
nership husband/wife or legal procedures are shown by the seventh 
house; gains through insurance, provident fund or hereditary right 
are indicated by the eighth house, whole earnings through foreign 
collaboration, foreigners and ones father are indicated by the ninth 
house; earning through industries andby employment is shown by 
the tenth house. The eleventh house signifies the sum of all these 
gains. 


Twelfth House: (Vyayabhaava). 


The end of life in this birth and attainment of salvation 
(Moksha) losses, expenditure, charities, tendency to help others, 
sorrow, parting difficulties, suffering, punishment, banishment, cun- 
ningness, jealousy, suicide, murder, separation ete. are indicated 
by this house. 

All aspects of ones life are included in the twelve houses and 
so necessarily the lists given above will have to be incomplete. How- 
ever, these lists would give you an idea about the type of matters 
which are to be judged from each house. 

Let us try to familiarise with a few examples. 

For a native the Ascendant Sign is Mithuna. So his second 
house is Kataka. This is occupied by Kethu. You may now suspect 
that the native might be dumb from this information. This predic- 
tion has to be supported by other indications also before we give out 
the conclusion. If the second house of a native is occupied by Mars 
then it is highly probable that the person might be very frank. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 31 

Suppose in a birth-chart the third house and the second house 
are both related to a beneficial planet; ifthe native is a woman we 
may predict that she has ornaments on her arms, ears and the neck. 
(these parts of the body are indicated by the third house) ]fin the 
horoscope ofa doctor the third and tenth (employment) houses are 
interrelated, he might be a specialist for diseases of the ear. Simi- 
larly, ifthe third house, which indicates the mental disposition ofa 
person, is occupied by the slow planet Saturn, he will not be quick 
in action But the one with Mars in the third house would have 
come to a quick decision. (whether he is successful or not is another 
question). 

If Mars the Significator oflanded property, is favourably dis- 
posed with respect to the fourth house (representing landed prop- 
erty) the native might purchase landed property. If a favourable 
Moon is related to the fourth house, the native's mother might be 
having good health. 

The sixth house and twelfth houses Signify disease and 
hospitalization. So if these two houses have connections with each 
other then hospitalization can be predicted on account of disease- 

Similarly it is possible to predict death through the seventh, 
eighth and second house. When the eighth house is relatedto Saturn 
B slow death is possible, while ifit is related to Mars an accidental 
death is possible; if related to Jupiter a peaceful natural death can 
be predicted. 

The twelfth house is the house of expenditure Thus if it is 
related to the second house, it indicates for ornaments and if re- 
lated to the third house expenses might be on account of short jour- 
ney. And connection between the twelfth and fourth houses indi- 
cates expenses for vehicles, properties, or for one's mother. When 
beneficial planets are related to the twelfth house through occupa- 
tion or lordship or in other ways (which will be described later) the 
expenditure would be for good purposes while when malefic planets 
are related to the twelfth house through occupation or lordship or 
in other ways (which will be described later) the expenditure would 
be for bad purposes- 


The success of an Astrologer lies in identifying at a glance the 
various relation between the houses, and the planets and in recall- 
ing the significations of each planet and each house. This is to be 
done while the customer is asking the Astrologer for advice. One 
should not run for a book when the customer is asking about the 
possibility ofhis winning a lottery. So ifis very essential though it 
requires some effort that as soon as the Astrologer is asked about a 


32 A Course in Indian Astrology 
particular aspect of life, he has to identify the houses and planets 
which are to be scrutinised for judging the matter. This ability can 
be gained only by experience. However, you will definitely become 
proficient in due course by patient and determined effort. 


The Horoscope - 
Jathaka or Janmakundali. 


UNIT 8 


Now we have obtained a general idea about signs, houses, 
stars and their positions and the lords of each star. The previous 
lessons must now be mastered by repeated reading, for, itis on the 
basis of those principles that we have to learn about the judgment 
of horoscopes. 

The birth-chart or horoscope represents the data which re- 
veals all the details completely through the entire life span of a 
person, attitudes, experiences, character and relations.. lt is on the 
basis of ths position of Lagna (Ascendant), the relative positions of 
the plaucts and the various houses, we have to predict the experi- 
ences of one's life. We are now beginning to step on the ladder of 
‘reading' a horoscope. Before plunging into horoscope-judgment it 
would be useful to know about the information marked in a horo- 
scope. 

The twelve cells in a birth-chart represent the twelve Signs. 
In a way this is a miniature representation of the relation between 
the person and the universe. It is at the time of birth that a person 
begins to be related to the open universe. The Sign of the Zodiac 
which is rising sign at the moment is the Ascendant or Lagna. We 
have already learned how to find out the rising Sign at any mo- 
ment. Now we mark 'Lagnai or Ascendant in the corresponding Sign 


A Course in Indian Astrology 33 
in the horoscope. So this Sign is the first house, the next Sign be- 
comes the second house, the next 3rd house.... ; and so on. The 
twelfth house is the last Sign that precedes the Ascendant Sign. 
Next, the positions of each planet at the time of birth are obtained 
from the almanac and each of them are marked in their respective 
Signs in the horoscope. Now we can find the Sign in which each 
planet is situated and also the house in which each planet is situ- 
ated. Though a horoscope contains only this much information, it is 
surprising to know that from such brief information it is possible 
for us to write a thousand pages about the person and his past, 
present and future. The experiences of the person on each day of 
his life can also be predicted with undoubted accuracy. Astrology is 
so deep aud powerful. However, for being able to do this the As- 
trologer has to acquire, by continuous concentration and medita- 
tion along with the blessings of the Teacher, the necessary capabil- 
ity, knowledge aud application skill. 


In a few lessons to follow we will learn the methods of judging 
a horoscope. 

From the moment people come to know that you know Astrol- 
ogy, they would approach you with various problems. 

One may be asking you about his job, disease, employment, 
financial matters disputes or marriage while another person would 
be meeting you with problems connected with parents, brothers and 
sisters or children. Yet another person might like to know about 
the possibility of his going abroad to the gulf countries or of the 
possibility of his purchasing a vehicle, or whether he would be suc- 
cessful in possessing a particular plot of land and if so when, or 
about the probability of his winning a dispute in the court of law. It 
may also happen that a police official may consult you to have as- 
trological information about a thief or a murder. In short all sorts of 
inquirers would come to you to know from your divine predictions 
about anything and everything under the Sun related to human 
life. So it becomes indispensable for youto rise to the occasion. How- 
ever, the only tool with you is the simple chart with just 12 cells. 
Everything would have to be shaped out from that bit of paper called 
the horoscope in order to satisfy your curious customer who is sure 
to ask various questions. No other branch of knowledge involves so 
much difficulties. Further, if it so happens that sone little error 
creeps into those predictions of the Astrologer based on a bit of pa- 
per, an avalanche of accusations that Astrology is treachery. that 
Astrology is superstition and the like, may follow.) 


You should get the horoscope and carefully examine it whether 


34 A Course in Indian Astrology 
it contains all the necessary details with accuracy. Then on the ba- 
sis of the Ascendant and the relative positions of the Planets and 
their distribution and lordships among the twelve houses, in a sys- 
tematic way you should investigate the various items described be- 
low. (As these may be quite new to you, each of them are described 
in detail and illustrated with suitable examples wherever neces- 
sary) 

1. First of all you must find out the. Bhaava (house) concerned 
with the matter inquired about by your customer. If it is a matter 
concerning finance or wealth it is the second house, if it is about 
brothers it is the third house; if enqitiries are related to wife, it is 
the seventh house and if related to employment the tenth house is 
to be explored (refer to the list of items indicated by the sequence or 
houses in the previous lessons). Having fixed up the house that has 
to be looked into, closely observe the horoscope to decide the details 
as given in the procedure below. 


2.In which Sign of the Zodiac falls that Bhava (house in the 
horoscope about which you have to judge). 

3. Which planet is the lord of that house ? (i.e.. lord of the 
Sign corresponding to the house-lords of the Signs and lords of the 
houses are the same). For instance if the Ascendant Sign is 
Vrishabha, lord of the Ascendant is Venus; the lord of the second 
house (Mithuna) is Mercury; the lord of the third house (Kataka) is 
Moon; the ford of the fourth house, Simha is Sun, the lord of the 
fifth house (Kanya) is again Mercury and so on. 

4.Is the lord of that house a benefic or a malefic ? (the ‘bene- 
fic' and 'malefic' nature of Planets will be explained in the next 
unit). 

5. Which benefic and malefics ‘aspecting’ that house ? (As- 
pects' of Planets are explained later). 

6. Which planets aspect the lord of that house ? 

7. Are those planets aspecting the lord of the house, enemies 
or friends of the lord ? (Planetary enmity and friendship are ex- 
plained later) 

8. Which are the planets that occupy that house ‘' Are they 
benefic or malefic ? Which of them are enemies of the lord, and 
which of them friends ? Are those friendly or inimical to one an- 
other ? 

9. What is the Sign occupied by the lord of that house ? Is that 
Sign occupied by the lord governed by his friend or by his foe ” 

10 .Arethe other planets occupying the Sign (occupied by the 
lord of the house friendly or inimical ?) 


A Course in Indian Astrology 35 

11.Is that Sign occupied by the lord ofthe house, his "exalta- 
tion-Sign" or the "debilitation-Sign" ? (For each planet, there is a 
particular Sign which is its exaltation where they are very power- 
ful while in their debilitation Signs they are very weak. These are 
explained later) 

12. Is the lord of the house occupying its 'Moolakshethra' ? Is 
it occupying its own Sign V Is it in a kendra (quadrant) ? Is itina 
Trikoha (trine) ? (Moolakshethras, quadrants and trines are ex- 
plained later) 

13. Which planet is the karaka (Significator) of that house 
(The Significations of each planet has already been learned). 

14.Is the house powerful ? (the strength of that house will be 
described later). 

15.Is the lord of the house powerful ? 

16.Isthe house aspected by the lord of thehouse or by the 
Significator of the house ? 

17. What are the effects of each planet occupying that house 
? Will that effect be experienced ? If so when ? 

Thus having identified the house which Signifies the matter 
required by your customer, the lord of that house, the Significator 
of the matter in question and the relative positions of the house 
lord as well as the Significator, predictions are to be done on the 
basis of the seventeen indications listed above. 

Now we shall learn about some of the concepts referred to in 
the rules above. These are (i) the benefic and malefic nature of Plan- 
ets (i) Signs of exaltation and debilitation of each planet, Signs 
owned by each, Signs of enemies quadrants, trines, and the 
Moolakshethras of Planets (iii) Aspects' of Planets (iv) Mutual rela- 
tions among the Planets (v) strength of Planets and (vi) Different 
classifications of Signs 


36 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Beneflc and Malefic 
Nature of Planets 


(Graha Subhatwa and Papatwa) 


UNIT 9 


Natural benefic (Naisargika subha graha). 


Planets are generally divided into 2 groups - Subha (Benefic) 
and Paapa (Malefic) on the basis of their natural tendencies. 

Jupiter. Venus, Mercury and Moon are natural benefic while 
all the others -Sun, Mars, Saturn, Raahu and Kethu are natural 
Malefic 

However for Mercury and Moon there are certain conditions 
when they become inalefic. If birth takes place when the position of 
the Moon is opposite to that of the Sin (that is full Moon) the Moon 
is said to be most powerful and the strength becomes gradually 
lower and lower lien it approaches the Sun. When the Sun and 
the Moon join the same Sign (New Moon) the latter is in its weakest 
state. From the new Moon to the full Moon the Moon will be gradu- 
ally gaining to brightness aud on the full Moon day it is completely 
illuminated by the Sun. This transit takes 14 days and the particu- 
lar day after the new Moon represents a certain phase of the Moon. 
Each day is deneted by a name - the Thithi or phase of the Moon. 
The first day after new Moon is the Thithi, Prathaima (Prathipada), 
the second (Dwitheeya), the third (Thritheeya), the fourth 
(Chathurthi), the fifth (Panchami). the sixth (Shashti) the seventh 
(Sapthami), the eighth (Ashtamiii, the ninth {Navamt), the tenth 
(Dasami), the eleventh (Ekadasi). the twelfth tDwadasi) the thir- 
teenth (Thrayodasi), the fourteenth (Chathurdasi! und the fifteenth 
day would be the full Moon (Pouruarmi). 


This period is the "bright half (Shuklapaksha) during which 


A Course in Indian Astrology 37 
the Moon gradually gains. So during each "Paksha" or half-months 
there will be each of the Thithis. For instance there will be a 
Panchami Thithi in the shuklapaksha and one in the “Krishna- 
paksha', similarly for each of the Thithis, except the Pournami and 
Amavasya, which appear only once in the respective fortnight 
(paksha). So the Shuklapaksha is the period following new Moon 
till pournami (full Moon) and the Krishnapaksha is the period fol- 
lowing full Moon (pournami) till new Moon (amavasya). The Thithi 
will be marked in the almanac, for each day. 

Moon is said to be having Paksha bala (phase-strength) in 
proportion with the brightness it is having on that day. Thus on 
Pournami day it is having full paksha-bala and on new Moon it is 
totally devoid of Paksha-bala. Astrologically, during the days from 
the Ash t a mi (eighth day) on Krishnapaksha (dark Ashtami) till the 
Ashtami on the next Shuklapaksha (bright Ashtami' the Moon is 
considered to have no paksha-bala (phase strength). If the period in 
between the Suklapaksha Ashtami till the next Krishnapaksha 
Ashtami (Suklaashtami to Krishnashtami) Moon is_ considered to 
posses Paksha-bala. (There are slightly varying opinions in this 
matter). 

Now Moon, though naturally benefic, it would be so only when 
it is having paksha-bala, otherwise Moon has to be treated as a 
malefic or a paapa. 

In the case of Mercury, it is a benefic by itself and if is joined 
by a malefic (natural) planet it has to be grouped as a malefic. So 
‘Paapayoga' or the joining with a Paapa, would make Mercury a 
malefic. 


Benefic and Malefic by Lordship 


We learned that same Planets are by nature benefic and oth- 
ers malefic. But these natural benefic would become malefic by the 
lordships of certain houses, in each horoscope. And similarly natu- 
ral malefic may become benefic by virtue of lordship in specific cases 

The following principles govern the ‘beneficity’ and ‘naleficity’ 
of planets on account of lordship. However this is applicable only 
for and with respect to the particular birth chart under considera- 
tion. 

1. The lords of trine -houses-Thrikonas- (fifth and 9th house.) 
in a horoscope are benefic irrespective of their natural beneficity or 
maleficity. 

2. Natural benefic (Jupiter, Venus, Mercury and Moon) be- 
come malefic when they are the lords of Kendra Houses (quadrant 


38 A Course in Indian Astrology 
house -the Ist, 4th, 7th and 10th houses) and natural malefics be- 
come benefics if they are the lords of quadrants, (1, 4, 7, 10). 

3. The lord of the Ascendant ( lord of the first -house- ) is 
always a benefic for the subject. 

4. The lords of the third, sixth and eleventh houses will be 
malefic, irrespective of their natural beneficity, in each horoscope. 

Note: 1. The maleficity due to lordship of quadrants is very 
intense in the case ofJupiter and less so for Venus and still less for 
mercury and very little for Moon. 

g. Rahu and Kethu are always malefic as they do not own any 
Sign. 

To illustrate these principles, let us decide on their basis the 
ature of the various Planets for the horoscope given below. Exam- 
ine each planet aud its lordship, apply the rules and decide whether 
it is a benefic for this horoscope. 

Record your conclusions and then compare it with the table 
of beneficity of Planets given in this lesson 


A Course in Indian Astrology 


Planet 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Natural Lordship in the 
behaviour horoscope 


Malefic 5h house 
(Simhe) 


Benefic 4th house 
Shukla Kataka 
paksha 


Malefic Ist and 
8th house 

Benefic 3rd and 
6th houses 


Benefic 9th and 
12th houses 


Benefic 2nd and 
7th houses 


Malefic 10th and 11th 


39 
Banefic/Reason 
Malafic 


Benefic Being Lord 
of a trine 
house (5) 


Malefic Being lord of 
a quadrant 
(but for 
moon this 
melificity 
may be 
ignored) 

Benefic As the lord 
of Lagna 

Malefic As the lords 
of 3,6, 11 « 
are malefic 
and also 
because cf 
the yoga 
with Kethu. 

Benefic As the 
lord of a 
trine house 
(9). 

Malefie As the lord 
of a quad 
rant 


Benefic As the lord 
of the (10th) 


EXERCISE: 1. Suppose that the Ascendant in the horoscope de- 
scribed above, is in the Sign Kanya, (instead of Mesha with all the 
planets in the sama positions. Now decide the beneficity or malefication 


of each planet. 


2. Kumbha Lagna, Sun, Mercury and Jupiter in the first house, 


Moon and Rahu 


in the third Satum in the fifth, Kethu and Mars in 


the ninth and Venus in the eleventh. Draw out this horoscope and 
decide the beneficity or maleficity of each planet, stating the reason 
for your decision. 


0 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Own Sign, Basic Sign, Exaltation, 
and Debilitation of Planets 
(Swakshethra ,Moolakshethra, 
Uchakshethra, Neechakshetra) 


1.0wn Sign:(Swalcshaetra) 


UNIT 10 


The sign (or Signs) of the Zodiac owned by a planet is called 
its Swakshethra, meaning ‘one’s own Sign'. The Signs owned by 
each planet have already been described in the second lesson. Thus 
the Swakshethra (own Sign) of Moon is Kataka (cancer), while the 
swakshetras of Saturn are Makara (Capricorn) and Kumbha (Aquar- 
ius}. If Saturn is occupying Makara Sign in horoscope it is said to 
occupy its own house or its Swakshethra {Recall the Signs governed 
by each planet explained in previous lessons). Planets in their own 
Signs would be having special strength. ; 


2.Moolakshethra or Moolathrikona (Basic Sign). 


In addition to the ownership of Signs, for each planet there is 
a particular Sign (this may be the Swakshethra itself in some cases) 
which is called the Moolakshetra and has special strength. The 
moolathrikona Signs of each planet are as follows: 


A Course in Indian Astrology Il 


Planet Moolathrikona position within the 
Sign 

Sun Simha up to 20” (the 
rest Swakshethra) 

Moon Vrishabh a form 3° to 30° (the rest 
is Uchakshethra) 

Mars Mesha Upto 12° (the rest is 
Swaksaethra) 

Mercury Kanya Between 15" to 20" (the 
rest is Swakshethra 

and Uchakshethra) 

Jupiter Dhanus upto 10° (rest 

Swakshethra) 

VenUs Thula upto 5" (rest 
Swakshethra) 

Saturn Kumbha upto 20" {rest 
Swakshethra) : 


To decide whether a planet is occupying the position called 
Moolakshethra, we should not only know that the planet is within 
the particular Sign, but we must also know the exact position of the 
planet within the Sign. Thisis evident from the table above. 50 the 
longitude of theplanet (i.e.. its angular position) is necessary. This 
is called the 'Sphuta'. The method to calculate the Sphiuta or longi- 
tude of Planets will be described later 


Mes ha Vnshabha 
Mars Moon 
930 


Moolatnkona or 
Mootakshetra of 


aach planet 


VYeaus Kana 
; o-5° Mercury 
18°-20° 


Exaltation (uchcha) and Debilitation (Neecha) Signs. 


Each planet has a_ particular point (position) of the Zodiac 
where it would be exalted (ucha) and the planet occupying this point 
would be in exaltation (meaning very powerful). The Sign 33, winch 
the point of exaltation for a planet falls is the Sign of its exaltation 
or uchakshethra. 


42 A Course in Indian Astrology 


The Point, diametrically opposite to the point of exaltation of 
a planet is the point of debilitation or depression (Neecha) for that 
planet. The Sign where this point of debilitation of planet falls is its 
Sign of debilitation (Neechakshethra). At the point of debilitation 
the planet would be in a very weak state or depressed state. The 
strength of a planet in the Zodiac would be in a very weak state or 
depressed state. The strength of a planet in the Zodiac would be 
gradually increasing from a minimum at the point of debilitation 
till it reaches a maximum at the point exaltation and then gradu- 
ally falls to a mimimim at the point of debilitation. So actually 
positional strength has to be calculated proportionate to its position 
in the Zodiac. 


Moen Sun Venus 
r its iP 
vischike} Thats Kanya 


A Course in Indian Astrology 43 
The Signs and exact points of exaltation and debilitation are 
given in the charts and tables below. 


Planet Sign of exaltntion Sign of debilitation 
points in the Sign point in the Sign, 
Sun , Mesha 10° Thula 10" 
Moon Vrishabha 03° Vrischika 03" 
Mars Makara 28° Kataka 28" 
Mercury Kanya 15° Meena _15" 
Jupiter Kataka 05" Makara 05" 
Venus Meena 27° Kanya 27" 
Saturn Thula 20" Mesha- 20" 


Rahu and Kethu 


Opinions are divided among Astrolo'gers regarding the 
Swakshethra, Moolathrikona and exaltation and debilitation of the 
shadow-Planets, Rahu Kethu. Inspite ofpersonal and regional vari- 
ation, the following rules are widely accepted (following the opinion 
of the great sage Paraasara) 


j Sun 
Jupiler -f Asc 


Planet Swak Moolak Sign of Sign of 
shethra exaltation debili 
tation 
Rahu Kanya Katake’ YVrishabha. Vrischika 


Kethu Meena Mithuna Vrischika Vrishabha 


44 A Course in Indian Astrology 
EXERCISES: 
1. Ase-Vrischika, Kethu in III house, Moon in V, Mars in VIII, Sun, 
Mercury, Satum and Rahu in IX, Venus in XI and Jupiter in XII. 
Construct the above horoscope and answer the following: 
a) Spat the benefic and malefic, giving reasons. 
b) Which ate the planets occupying own houses ? 


c) Which are the planets occupying their Moolakshethras ? 


d) Point out those planets in their exaltation Signs and those in 
Signs of debilitation 


2. In a horoscope the lord of Lagna is occupying its Sign of debilita- 
tion in the twelfth house. The lord of the ninth house is in exaltation 
Sign which is also its Moolakshethra. The Sun is in debilitation’, Jupiter 
occupies the debilitation Sign of Moon. Saturn is in the fifth house. 
Moon, Mars and Rahu are in the third house. Construct the horoscope. 
Compare and contrast your Turn over with the following. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 45 


Mutual Relationship between 
Planets 


(Sathru, (enemy) Mithra (friend) and Sama (neutral) 
relations of Planets. 


Unit 11 


We have learned about the Signs where each planet has spe- 
cial rights like ownership strength or weakness. Ifa planet is to be 
capable of showing its full benefits on a native it has to be occupy- 
ing a favourable position, not only by way of ownership or position 
in the Zodiac, but also with respect to environments. He should be 
in a ‘friendly’ environment and not ina spot owned by his enemies. 
These are extremely important for making correct predictions with 
a natal chart. For instance a planet may be a benefic for the native 
and it may also be capable of giving its benefic results. But it is 
occupying the Signofits enemy, the planet, though has a tendency 
to be beneficial to the native, becomes powerless to give the ben- 
efits. So the interrelation between the Planets is very important. 


When we learned about the beneficity of planets we have found 
that there are two types of beneficity-natural or characteristic (of 
the planet) and by virtue of lordship with respect to each specific 
horoscope. 

In a similar manner, the relationship (enmity, friendship and 
neutrality) of Planets are also of two kinds, (1) Permanent or natu- 
ral (Naisargika) and (2) Temporary (Taathkaalika). This latter re- 
lation Taathkaalika is only with respect to the particular horo- 
scope under consideration, while the former category is the charac- 
teristic of the planets and hence permanent. One has to blend or 
combine these two relationships in order to obtain the final rela- 
tionships of each planet to each of the others in a given horoscope. 


46 A Course in Indian Astrology 

The permanent relations are characteristic ofthe planets while 
the temporary relations are dependent upon the relative positions 
in the horoscope. 


1. Permanent Relations 


Planets behave in three ways naturally in their relations with 
each ofthe other planets. These relations are i) friendly (Mithra) ii) 
inimical (Sathru) and iii) Neutral (Sama). The relations between 
one pair of planets in the two directions may be different. If A is a 
friend of B, B may or may not be a friend towards A. The perma- 
nent relations are to be readily understood fromthe. following table. 
Try to commit this to your memory so that it canbe recalled at any 
time you need. 


These planets will be 


these Friendly inimical Neutral 
planets (mithra) (Satru) {Sama) 
Sun Moon, Mars, Jupiter Verius, Mercury 
Saturn 
Rahu 
Moon Sun, Mercury Rahu Mars, Jupiter, 
Venus, Satum 
Mars Sun, Moon, Jupiter Mercury, Venus, Satum 
Rahu 
Mercury Sun, Venus, Rahu Moon Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn 
Jupiter Sun, Moon, Mars Mercury, Saturn, Rahu 
Venus 
Venus Mercury, Saturn, Sun, Moon Mars, Jupiter 
Rahu 
Saturn Mercury, Venus, Rahu Sun, Moan, Jupiter 
Mars 
Rahu Mercury, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars. 
Saturn Jupiter 


Note:-l. For Kethu the relations are the same as those of 
Rahu. 
2. According to some authorities Mars is mimical and 
Jupiter is neutral to Raahu. 
When you closely follow the table ofrelations you would find 
that relations between planets are not always reciprocated in simi- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 47 

lar way. Thus, Mercury is a friend of Moon, whereas Moon is the 
enemy of Mercury, Though Mars is neutral to Moon, Moon is friendly 
to Mars. Analyse these relations well so that all these relations would 
be at your fingertip as they are quite essential for Judging a Horo- 
scope and other Predictions. 

Now, ifin a natal chart the Sunis occupying Kataka (owned 
by Moon) Mesha or Vrischika (owned by Mars) or the Sign ofJupiter 
(Dhanus or Meena) we can say that in that chart the Sun is occu- 
pying a friendly Sign. So also it is evident that the Signs Makara, 
Kumbha (of Saturn) Vrishabha or Thula (of Venus) are inimical 
Signs of the Sun. Jmother words for the former native, the Sun, 
Moon, Mars and Jupiter will behave in a beneficiary manner. 


2. Temporary Relations 


The temporary relations between planets are caused by vir- 
tue of their relative positions in an horoscope and are very easy to 
understand. The rule is simple enough and there are only two rela- 
tions -friendly and inimical. 

All those planets occupying the second, third, fourth, tenth, 
eleventh, and twelfth Signs with respect to a particular planet will 
be friendly to that planet while those occupying all other signs are 
inimical to it. The friendly signs are the three signs preceding and 
the three following the sign occupied by the planet in question. Ac- 
cording to this rule planets occupying same Sign in the horoscope 
are mimical to each other temporarily. 

Temporary Friends - Those occupying signs 2, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12 
with respect to the sign occupied by the concerned planet 

Temporary Enemies - Those occupying the Signs 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 
9 with respect to the sign occupied by the planet. 


Combined Relations in a Horoscope 


When in a horoscope a planet is friendly both permanently 
and also temporarily it becomes an intimate friend (Athimithra); 
when a planet in iftimicalin either way it becomes a bitter enemy 
(Athisathru). So to obtain the final (combined) relation between plan- 


ets in a horoscope we may make use ofthe following table. 


Permanent Temporary Final (combined 
relation relation relation 
Friend Friend Intimate friend 
Neutral Friend Friend 
Enemy Friend Neutral 
Friend Enemy Neutral 
Neutral Enemy Enemy 


Enemy Enemy Bitter enemy 


48 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Just examine the following horoscope and ascertain the rela- 
tionship both temporary enmity and friendship of planets. 


Juprter 
Venus _/§ 


dupifer = JAsc 
Yenus Sun, Mars 
: Mercury 


According to the above rules for temporary relationship of 
the planets, the relationship of planets in this horoscope will be as 
follows: 


Planets Friendly planets Inimical Planets 
occupying the Sign occupying the Sign 
Sun Jup.(2), Ven, (2) Mars(l) Mer.(1) Sat.(8) Moon(7) 
Moon * Sat.(2) Sun(7) Mars(7) Mer.(7) Ven.(8) 
Jup. (8) 
Mars Jup.{2) Ven.(2) Sun(1) Mer.(1) Moon(7) Sat.(8) 
Mercury Jup.(2) Ven.(2) Sun(1) Mars(1) Maon(7) Sat.(8) 
Jupiter Siun(12) Mars(12) Ven.(l) Moon(6) Sat.(7) 
Mer.(12) 
Vanus Mars(12) Mer.(12) Jup.(1) Moon(6) Sat.(7) 
Sun(12) 
Saturn Moon(12) Sun(6) Mars(6) Mer.(6) Jup.(7) 
Ven.(8) 


Compare and contrast the above list with that ofthe natural 
(Naisargika Sathru Mithrathva) enmity and friendship. Also find 
out who are all the intimate friends and who are bitter enemies. 
Compare your answer with the following. 


A Course _in Indian Astrolo, 49 
Planets Intimate Friends Neutral Enemy bitter 
in the frier ds enemy 
Horoscope 
1. Sun Jup, Z Moon. Mars, Mercury Saturn 
Ven. 
2. Moan — Ven. Sun, Mer. Mars, Jup — 
Ven. 
3. Mars Jup. Ven. Sun, Moon Saturn Mercury 
4. Mercury Ven. Jup. Sun Mars, Sat. Moon 
5. Jupiter. Sun, Mare — Mer., Moon Saturn Venus 
G. Venus Mer Mars Sat, Sun Jupiter Sun, 
Mars 
7, Satorn. . < Mer, Ven, Jupiter Sun, 
Moon Mars. 
EXERCISE: 1. Find out the intimate friends, enemies, friends, 


bitter enemies, and neutrals to all the 7 Planets in the horoscope, 
after tabulating their permanent and temporary relations. 
2. Fhe following are the horoscope details of Bhagavan Krishna (as 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Moon 


given by Dr. B.V.Raman) Please draw a chart and enter the planetary 
positions in it. Lagna in Vrishabha; Sun in Simha; Moon in Vrisha; 
Mars in Kataka; Mercury in Kanya; Jupiter in Simha; Venus in Kataka; 
Saturn in Vrischika; Raahu in Kataka; Kethu in Makara. 

3.Tne horoscope details of Mahathma Budha are given below-Pre- 
pare a chart. 

Lagna-Kataka. Ravi-Mesha; Moon-Thula; Mars-Mesha; Mercury- 
Vrisha; guru-Mesha; Venus-Mesha; Saturn-Mesha; Raahu-Mithuna; 
Kethu-Dhanus. 

4. You will be interested to know the horoscope details of Adi 
Sankaracharya which are given below: Draw the chart yourself. 

Legna-Kataka; Sun-Mesha; Moon-Mithuna; Mars-Meena; Mercury- 
Mesha; Jupiter-Kumbha; Venus-Mesha; Saturn-Dhanus; Raahu- 
Vrisha; Kethu-Vrischika. 


50 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Aspects (Drishti) of 
Planets. 


UNIT 12 


At any moment ofoccurrence of an incident, like the time of 
birth ofa child etc., we have seen that each of the planets would be 
touching (transiting) a specific point in the zodiac. We have also 
learned how to locate the points in signs which the planets touch at 
the time of the incident and to record them in the natal chart and 
thus prepare a horoscope ofthat event. A planet would be influenc- 
ing not only the sign it occupies, but also would have some influ- 
ences at certain other specific points also in the zodiac. This phe- 
nomenon is known as the aspect or (Drishti) of planets. The planets 
are said to cast their ‘looks’ or ‘aspects’ at certain specific points in 
zodiac. The effect of a planet aspecting a sign, is equal to its occupy- 
ing that particular sign. Thus by their aspects planets can modify 
the effects signified by that house. So also there may be planets in 
the 'aspected' sign, Then we can say these planets are aspected by 
the aspecting planets. 


A planet's aspect falling on a house and on another planets 
has important effects on that house aswell as omthe aspected plan- 
et. The Actual effect will depend upon the nature ofthe aspecting 
planet, the nature of the aspected planet and their interrelations. 
Therefore the aspects ofplanetsis extremely useful injudging horo- 
fcopes. For instance, Mars and Saturn are natural malefic and they 
feignifybad effects, But ifthese planets are aspected by the benefic 
Jupiter, the bad effects ofthese malefics are considerably reduced. 


A Course in Indian Astrology Sl 


VY \Y 


In this diagram Sun is aspecting Jupiter and Saturn is 
aspecting Venus and Vice Versa. There are definite principles about 
aspecting of planets which we shall learn in the following lines. * 

In this unit we shall first learn about the rules regarding the 
aspects of each planet. These are given below, 

Rule: 1. All planets cast their full aspectson the seventh sign 
from the sign occupied by them (It is evident therefore that a plan- 
et's aspect falling on the sign will also fall on all the planets also 
occupying the seventh sign with respect to the aspecting planet). 

Rule: 2. In addition to the above rule Saturn, Jupiter and 
Mars have special full aspects on (a) the third and tenth signs for 
Saturn (b) the fifth and ninth signs for Jupiter and (c) the fourth 
and eighth signs for Mars (Here also, these aspects would also be 
falling not only on the signs, but also on those planets occupying 
the signs) 

To begin with, these rules of full aspects and special aspects 
would ke sufficient. However, in detailed analysis we would have to 
consider what are known as fractional aspects which we will dis- 
cuss in later units. So also, the aspects of Rahu and Kethu are de- 
scribed differently by different authorities on astrology. The widely 
accepted conventions about the aspects of the shadowy planets also 
will be considered in later units. 

Let us now apply the two general rules of full aspects and 
special full aspects in the model horoscope given here. 


52 A Course in Indian Astrology 


eFC! 
Satum 


Take each planet one by one and from the above two rules 
find out the sign and planets on which its full aspect and special 
aspects fall. For instance, take the aspect of the Sun. It does not 
have special aspects (Rule 2). By Rule 1 Sun aspects the 7th sign 
counted from the sign occupied by it. Here in the given chart Sun is 
in the sign Dhanus and so count upto 7 starting from Dhanus as 1. 
The seventh sign form the Sun is thus Mithuna, which is the As- 
cendent sign. Raahu also is inthat sign. Therefore, the Lagna (first 
house) as well as Raahu are aspected by the Sun. Inthe same way 
the Ascendent and Raahu are also aspected by Kethu and Venus, 
Because the former occupy the seventh Rasi from the later. Next 
take the case of Jupiter (in the [IX house, (Kumbha). Jupiter has its 
aspects on the 7th, 5th and 9th signs by Rule 1 (7th) and Rule 2 (5th 
and 9th). So Jupiter aspects the Ascendent sign (1 House) the III 
house and the V house, and all planets occupying these positions. 
Thus Raahu in (1 house) aspected by Jupiter fromthe IX house. No 
other planet is aspected by Jupiter. Similarly we have to sort out 
each aspect from the horoscope. 


The result is given below, 


Planet Signs Planets Planet aspected aspecte 
aspected aspected sign planet 
by_it bv _it 

Sun Pas | Raahu JupiteT 1, Lv Raahu 

Moon Vv None Venus I Raabu 

Mars Il, V, VI None Saturn ne XII, None 

Mercury XII None Raahu, Kethu VII, I Sun, 

Ven., 


e J Ket, Ra. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 53 

Another experience also is to be gained in order to analyse a 
horoscope. Instead of concentrating on the aspecting planet as we 
have done now, one has to take each house. Thus, take the case of 
the 10th house in the above horoscope. The 10th house is Meena 
and it is not occupied by any planet. It is also not aspected by any 
planet When a house is aspected by the lord it would gain strength. 
So also aspect of the significator of that house also would add 
strength to the house. 

EXERCISE: 1. Tabulate the occupancy ofeach house and also 
the aspects falling on the house, in the above horoscope. 


2. Is the fifth house aspected or occupied by the lord of the House ? 


3. Is the fifth house aspected by the significator of the fifth House 
(Jupiter) ? 


4. Is the Sun aspected by its friendly planets ? 


¢ 5. Does the Ascendant get any aspect from beneffc ? If so which ? 
Does it get any evil aspects' from malefic ? If so which ? 


6.List the signs which do not receive any aspects. 


7. Which are the houses aspected by their lords. 


Even though we have learned about aspects by the two rules 
described in the last unit it has to be made clear that those two 
rules do not contain all the aspects. Those are the “fullaspects" or 
the “PoornaDrishti' and the special full aspects or "Visesha Poorna 
Drishti' of Jupiter, Saturn and Mars. However for exact predictions 
and calculations involving the strength or planets and houses we 
have to consider the "fractional aspects" of planets also. The rules 
are as follows: 

Rule: 1. AD planets caste a ‘quarter-aspect’ on the third and 
tenth signs from themselves. (Exception: Saturn has special full as- 
pect on the 3rd and 10th, This has been studied earlier) 

Rule 2. AD planets cast a ‘half aspect’ on the fifth and ninth 
signs (Exception: Jupiter alone has special full aspect on the 5th 
and 9th [we have studied earlier]). 

Rule: 3. All planets cast a 'Three quarter aspect" on the fourth 
and eighth signs (Exception: For ordinary purpose the fractional 
aspects can be ignored, especially as beginner. And when we are 
sufficiently advanced then only we heed take these fractional as- 
pects into consideration. 


54 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Another point to be remembered in the case of aspects regard- 
ing the aspects of Rahu and Kethu, as in the case regarding the 
Moolakshethra, Swakshethra, exaltation sign and Debilitation sign 
of these so-called planets there are conflicting postulates among 
experts. So also regarding their aspects, there are differences of 
opinion. The widely owned convention is that Raahu and therefore 
Kethu also has full aspects on the fifth, seventh ninth, and twelfth 
houses from its occupation, half aspects on the second and tenth 
and quarter aspects on the third and sixth. 

EXERCISE:: 


; Take any horoscope (perhaps your own) and investigate the follow- 
ing points: 
1. Spat out the houses aspected by their respective lords. 
2. Spot out the houses aspected by the significater(s} of that house. 
3. Which are the houses aspected by benefic only ? 
4. Which are the houses aspected by malefic only ? 
5. Which are the houses aspected by both benefic and malefic ? 


6. Is there any house which is aspected by the enemy of the house- 
lord ? 

7. Which are the houses aspected by the lords of VI, VII] and XII 
houses Are those houses receiving beneficial aspects also ? 


8. Which houses are aspected by the lords, by the lords of trines 
(Trikone) (5th and 9th houses) ‘/ 


Course in Indian Astrology & OS 


Characteristics and 
Classification of Signs « 


UNIT 13 


Each of the 12 signs has certain inherent qualities and these 
are very important in their classification and also in predictions. 
Similarly, based on the particular house ofa horoscope which falls 
in a sign, it acquires specific importance in each horoscope. The 
classifications of signs based on the position of Ascendant and also 
on the basis of their inherent qualities are described in this unit. 
Though it may seem difficult to remember these different classifi- 
cations, it is essential and by practise you will be able to remember 
them. 


Classifications based of inherent — qualities. 
Masculine and Feminine Signs: (Odd and Even) 


Starting from Maesha the alternate signs are called Mascu- 
line signs (or odd signs or Vishama signs or cruel signs) These are 
Maesha, Mithuna, Simha, Thula, Dhanus, Kumbha, the odd- num- 
bered in their serial order. The others are feminine signs. (Even 
signs, Samasigns or Mild signs). The feminine or even are basically 
benevolent while the odd signs are ofa cruel nature. 

When the ‘Lagna’ in a birth happens to be in an odd sign, 
then in all probability the child would be a male. Though this is not 
always so, if the child happens to be female it would have a pre- 
dominantly masculine character. However, if we examine the exact 
longitudes of the houses and also of the Ascendant and the planets, 
it is possible’ to predict exactly whether the native is male or fe 
male. This classification becomes very useful in Prasna or Horary 
Astrology. In a Prasna regarding theft, if the stolen article is found 
to be associated with even sign (Feminine signs) in the Prasna- 


56 A Course in Indian Astrology 
chart one can predict that the theft has been definitely effected 
through a female. 


2. Movable, Fixed and Common Signs: 
(Chara, Sthira and Ubhaya Rasis). 


This classification is also based on the serial order in Zodiac. 
The signs taken in their serial order from Maesha are repeatedly 
Movable (or Chara), Fixed (or Sthira) and Common (or Ubhaya) the 
fourth is again Movable, the next fixed and the next common. This 
is repeated for the next set of signs. Thus we have 

Movable Signs: Maesha, Kataka, Thula and Makara. 

Fixed Signs: Vrisha, Simha, Vrischika and Kumbha. 

Common Signs: Mithuna, Kanya, Dhanus and Meena. 

The usefulness of this classification can be illustrated by the 
observation, that if the house associated with one's employment 
happens to be a movable sign, the person is found to be travelling 
on account of employment whereas if that house happens to be a 
fixed sign the person would be having employment in a ‘fixed! place. 
When it is a common sign his employment would be having both 
the characteristics. The general character of a native can be pre- 
dicted. similarly based on the type of the sign in which the Lagna 
falls. 


3.Seershodaya, Prushtodaya and Ubhayodaya Rasis: 


Signs are of three types depending upon the manner in which 
they rise. Those which rise by their heads are called Seershodaya 
signs and those which rise by their hinder part are known as 
Prushtodaya signs. The sign Meena alone rises by both the head 
and the hinder part and it is called an Ubhayodaya sign. 


Signs rising by the head: Simha, Kenya, Vrischika, Thula, 
Kumbha, Mithuna. 

Signs rising by hinder part: Maesha, Vrischika, Kataka, Dhanus, 
Makara. 

Sign rising by both: Meena. 


4.Day Signs and Night signs: 


Of the twelve signs six are powerful in day time and the other 
six signs are powerful at night. 


Day Signs: Simha, Kanya, Thula, Vrischika, 
Kurobha and Meena. 
Night Signs: Maesha, Vrishabha, Mithuna, Kataka, 


Dhanus and Makara. 


A Course in Indian Astro logy 57 
5. Classifications based on the five elements: 
(Panchabhoothas). 


Earthy Signs (Pruthvi Rasis:) Vrisha, Kanya, Makara. 


Watery Signs (Jala Rasis): Kataka, Vrischiku, Meena. 
Fiery Signs (Agneya Rasis): Maesha, Simha, Dhanus. 
Airy Signs (Vayu Rasis): Mithuna, Thula, Kumbha. 


[This classification is followed by many Astrological schools. 
However there are other classifications also. For instance according 
to some authors, the classification is as follows] 

Earthy signs: Mithuna and Kanya. 

Watery signs: Vrishabha, Kataka, Thula. 

Fiery signs: Maesha, Simha, Vrischika. 

Airy signs: (A akasa Rasi) Dhanus, Meena. 

However it is commonly considered that Kataka, Vrischika, 
Meena and the second half ofMakara are Watery signs (Jala rasis 
while Maesha, Simha, Dhanus and Thula are Land signs {Sthala 
Rasis). 

Vrishabha, Mithuna, Kanya and Kumbha are called Water- 
dependent signs (Jalasraya Rasis). 


6. Sign of Short, Long and Medium stature. 


The signs Maesha, Vrishabha and Kumbha are called Short 
Signs; The signs Simha, Kanya, Thula and Vrischika are Long Signs 
and Mithuna, Kataka, Dhanus, Makara and Meena are Medium 
Signs. 


7. Biped or human (Dwipaad), Quadruped 
(Chathushpaad) and Multiped (Bahupaad) Signs: 


Mithuna, Kanya, Thula, Kumbha and the first half of Dha- 
nus are called Human Signs or Biped signs (Dwipaad Rasis). 

Maesha, Vrishabha, Simha, the second half of Dhanus, the 
first half ofMakara are called Quadruped (Chathushpaad) signs. 

Kataka. and Vrischika are Multiped signs (Bahupaad). 

. Meena is called a legless sign. 

These classifications are based on the nature of the symbolic 
representations of each sign, from which they are named. Thus 
Maesha is described as a goat and it is a quadruped sign. Vrishabha 
is a bull; Mithuna is a couple one ofthem holding a club and the 
other a Veena; Kataka is acrab (multiped); Simha is Hon; Kanya is 
described as a virgin in a boat; Thula by a merchant holding a bal- 
ance; Vrischika by a scorpion, Dhanus by a being whose upper half 
is human holding a bow and arrow and the lower body ofa ctroco 


58 A Course in Indian Astrology 
dile; Kumbha by a man with an empty pot; and Meena by a fair of 
fish each biting the tail of the other. 


II Classifications based on the relative positions of 
signs in each horoscope. 


1.Drisya or visible and Adrisya or invisible signs. 

The six signs from the Lagna are called the invisible signs 
while the seventh to the twelfth sign from the Lagna sign are called 
the visible signs. 

2. Classification based on the position of Sun. 

Signs are grouped into three sets, based on the position of the 
sun in the chart. 

a) Adhomukha Rasi: (Signs with faces turned downward) 

The sign which is occupied by the sun and its quadrants (first, 
fourth, seventh and tenth) are called Adhomukha signs or down- 
faced signs. Thus if the Sun is "m Maesha the signs Maesha (1st) 
Kataka (4th), Thula (7th), and Makara (10th) are the down-faced 
signs. These signs would be situated at right angles in the order 
and hence are called the quadrants or angular signs (see later). 

b) OordhvamukhaRasi: (Signs with faces upward) 

The signjust left by the Sun (this is the one which precedes 
the occupation sign of the sun) and its 4th, 7th and 10th signs are 
called Oordhvamukha Rasis which mean that the signs face up- 
ward. (up-faced signs). If the sun is occupying Maesha, the 
Oordhvamukha signs are Meena (the signs from which sun has just 


A Course in Indian Astrology 59 
moved that is preceding sign), Mithuna (4th from Meena), Kanya 
(7th from Meena) and Dhanus (10th from Meena). 

Up-faced signs are there which precede the down-faced signs. 

c). Thiryangmukhensi:(Signs with faces turned backward). 

The sign which is to be occupied next by the sun (that is the 
sign next to the occupation sign of thesun), along with the 4th, 7th 
and 10th from that arecalled Thiryangmukha Rasis or Facing-back 
signs. 

Thus if sun is occupying the sign Maesha, the facing-back 
signs are Vrishabha (the sign next to the occupation sign of sun), 
Simha (4th from Vrishabha), Vrischika (7th) and Kumbha (10th). 

[The above classification is the one which is widely followed 
among several astrologers. But another method also is found to be 
followed by a few. According to this classification, the sign preced- 
ing the signofsun andthe two signs fallo wingit are grouped as up- 
faced signs. The next four signs-that is the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7.th 
from the sun are called down-faced signs. The next ofthe signs are 
facing back signs -that is the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11thfrom the sun]. 


III Classification of signs and houses based on the 
Ascendant sign. 


This classification is simple. 

1. Quadrants orAngles (kendra). 

The Ascendant sign, the fourth seventh and tenth from it 
(that is 1, 4, 7 and 10) are collectively called the Kendra signs or 
quadrants or Angles. These are also called Kantaka signs and 
Chathushtaya signs. ; 

The corresponding houses are called the quadrant houses or 
angular houses. 

The angle between these signs is 90 or multiples of it. 

2.Trines or Thrikonas 

Starting from the Ascendent the fifth and ninth signs are 
called trines. This set of three - 15 and 9 are very important signs 
and the lords of the trines are especially beneficial to the native. 
The angle between any two successive trines (including the Ascend- 
ant) is 12.5 

3. Succeedent signs or Panaphara Rasis. 

These are the signs or Houses which succeed the quadrants. 
Thus the 2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th signs from the Ascendant are the: 
succeedent signs (since the Sth is a trime. many authorities con- 
sider only 2md,.8thand llthas succeeding signs). 


A Course in Indian Astrology 

4. Cadent signs or Aapoklima signs 

These are the signs which follow the succeeding signs - the 
3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th from the Ascendent. (Here also since the 
ninth one is included inthe trines, many Astrologers take only the 
3rd, 6th and 12th as the cadent sigms)-. 

5.Chathurasra_ Rasis 

The fourth and eighth signs from the Ascendant are collec- 
tively called chathurasra signs. 

6.Upachaya Signs 

The 3rd, 6th 10th and 1lithsigns from the Ascendant are collec- 
tively known as the Upachaya signs. 

7.Apachaya Signs 

All the signs other than the Upachaya signs are collectively 
called Apachaya signs (1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 6, 12). These signs are also 
called peeda signs (peedakshara). 

Take any horoscope and classify the signs and houses by each 
method given above. Remember the great proverb "Practice makes 
the Master". 

To keep you in touch with these classifications let us give you 
some simple exercises. 

EXERCISE: Copy down the horoscope: 


ia “ = 
Star , E . 
Hastha 


Rabu Jupiter | Moon 
Satum 


This is the birth chart of one of the greatest sons of India - 
Swami Vivekanandaji. Keep this for your future practice and to 
test your skills in Astrology. We may have many occasions to refer 
. to great horoscopes. Swamiji's life can be correctlyjudged from this 
birth chart. 


A Course in Indian Astrology ol 
At present prepare the answers for the following questions - 
ofcourse with frequent references to the lessons. 
1.Name the lord of Lagna. 
2. What is the position of the Lagnadhipa (Lagna-lord) from 
the Lagna ? * 
3. Does the lord of Lagna occupy a quadrant ? 
4. Does he occupy a succeedent ? 
5 Does he occupy his sign of exaltation ? 
6. Is he aspected by any planet ? Ifso by which ? 
-7. Doeshe receive any special full aspect ? lfso of which planet? 
8. Does the lord of Lagna aspect any house ? If so which ? 
What is the rising-mode of each of those signs ? (Oordhwoadaya 
etc) 


9. Which planets are aspected by the Lord of Lagna ? 

10. Which are the houses owned by each of the planets 
aspected by the Lagna-lord ? F 

11.Find but those planets occupying Movable signs. 

12. Find out the planets occupying Movable signs which are 
also masculine. 

13. Find out the lords of quadrants and state whether they 
are occupying quadrants. 

14. Find out the lords oftrines. 

15. Spot the up-faced, down-faced and facing-back signs. 

16. Is there any quadrant-lord occupying the same sign with 
"a trine-lord ? 

17. Is there any trine-lord aspected by a quadrant lord ? 

18. Find out the planets occupying their own signs. 

19. Is there any planet occupying the Moolakshethra. If so 
which ? Any planet in exaltation ? 

20. Find out the benefic and malefic. 

21. List the Athimithras, Mithras, Neutrals, Sathrus and 
Athisathrus ofthe lord of the ninth house. 

22. How many common signs are not occupied by any planet? 

23. Which of the Biped signs are occupied by planets ? 


62 A Course in Indian Astrology 


General Rules for Judging 
Horoscopes 


UNIT 14 


A horoscope has to be judged by a consideration of the 12 
houses, the lord of each house, the planets occupying each house, 
the sign occupied by each lord, the aspects falling on each house 
and their nature, planets which occupy the same sign of each lord. 
Any such other information also must be considered. 

As an example, let us take a model horoscope and analyse it. 


12 \ 
Ase 
Aeahu 


Jupiter 2 
g 
‘Sun Mercury 

Venus Satum 


First of all ascertain that the Ascendant and all the nine plan- 
ets are marked in the horoscope. Then make sure about the houses 
and then respective lord. The lord of a house is the lord ofthe sign 
which happens to be that house. 

Now a set of questions are given below (with the answers) 
¢ with reference to the model horoscope, so as to familiarise you with 
the sort of details one has to pick out from a horoscope. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 63 

QUESTIONS: 1. Which is the sign ofAscendant (first house) 
? Who is the lord ofthe Lagna ? (Ans: Mithuna; Mercury) 

2.In which house is the lord of Lagna posited ? (In the sixth 
house) 

3. Is the Ascendent lord a benefic or a malefic ? (Though a 
maturdienefic, due to the conjunction with the malefic Saturn, the 
lord of the Ascendant is a _ malefic, But the lord of the Ascendant is 
always a_ benefic in each horoscope) 

4.1sthe occupation sign of theAscendent lord his own sign or 
sign of exaltation or Moolakshethra or debilitation sign! (None of 
these) 

5. Is the Ascendent lord posited in the sign of a Mithra ? Or of 
a sathru ? Or of a Neutral ? 

6. Spot the permanent and temporary enemies of the 
Lagnadhipa. (Moon is the permanent while Saturn, Mars, Moon, 
Rahu are temporary enemies) 

7. Spot the friends ofthe Lagnadhipa. (Sun, Venus andRahu 
are permanent friends — while Venus, Jupiter and Kethu are — tempo- 
rary __ friends) 

8. Classify the plamets according to their relationship to the 
Ascendant lord. (Bitter enemy ¢ Moon; Enemy - Mars, Saturn; Neu- 
tral - Rahu; Friend ¢ Jupiter; Intimate friend - Sun, Venus, Kethu) 

9. In which houses are the enemies to the Ascendant lord 
posited ? (Moan and Margn the I1th house, and Saturn in the Ist 
house) 

10. Which houses are occupied by friends of Lagnadhipa ? 
(Sun, Venus and Kethu in the seventh house and Jupiter in the 
ninth) 

11.Which planets aspect the Lagna ? (Sun, Venus and Kethu 
by their direct aspect and Jupiter by special aspect) 

12. Which of-the above aspects are of friends ofthe lord ? (All 
the aspects arc of friends of the Lagnadhipa) 

13.Is the Lagna aspected by enemies of thelord ? (None) 

14. Is the Ascendant lord aspected by friendly planets ? (No} 

15. Is the lord of Lagna aspected by enemies ? (Yes. Mars 
eighth aspect) 

16. a) Who are the lords of the Unfavourable positions 6, 8 
and 12? 

b) In which houses is each of the above lords posited ? 

c)Which planets are occupying those unfavourable positions? 

d) Which planets are in conjunction with the unfavourable 
lords ? 


64 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Note: The positions 6, 8 and 12 are said to be unfavourable 
positions (Anishta Sthaanas) and the eighth is the worst of the three. 
[a) 6th house-lord is Mars; 8th house lord is Saturn; 12th 
house-lord is Venus. 

b) 6th-lord is in the 11th house, 8th-lord in the 6th and 12th 
lord in the 7th. 

c) Lord of theLagna (Mercury) and Saturn (8th lord) occupy 
the sixth house; 8th house is unoccupied ans so is the 12th house. 

Moon is in conjunction with the sixth-lord. 

Lagna-lord is in conjunction with the eighth lord. 

Sun and Kethu are in conjunction with the 12th-lord]. 

17. On which houses and planets do fall the aspects of the 
lords of6, 8 and 12? 

(The sixth lord (Mars) aspects the houses 2, 5 and 6 from 
Maesha; these aspects fall on the Lagna lord Mercury and the eighth- 
lord Saturn, both occupying Vrischika the sixth house. 

The 8th lord Saturn posited in Vrischika the 6th house is 
aspecting the houses 8, 3 and 12. No planet is aspected by mercury, 

The 12th lord Venus posited in Dhanus the 7th house, as- 
pects the first house and Raahu. 

18. The positions 2nd 7 are associated with death as they are 
the 12th with respect to eighth of eighth (in third) and eighth and 
the preceding house is the negation of the succeeding house. These 
positions, the planets occupying these houses, the malefics which 
are in conjunction with the lords of Malaarata positionsare all pow- 
erful to kill the native. 

Similarly the 11th house in the case of Lagna in a movable 
sign, the 9th in the case of Lagna in a fixed sign and the 7th in the 
case of Lagna in a common sign are called Baadhaka positions. These 
positions are associated with troubles for the native. 

So in the above horoscope, find out the lords of the Maaraka 
and Baadhaka positions. Where are they posited ? Which are the 
planets posited in the Maaraka positions ? Are they malefic or ben- 
efic ? 

[In this case the Baadhaka position is the 7th since the Lagna 
is in a common sign. Hence the seventh is both Maaraka and 
Baadhaka in nature. So the malefics associated with the seventh 
house are especially effective in killing the native. 

The second house lord is Moon and the lord of the Baadhaka - 
Maaraka position (7th) is Jupiter. Moon is in the 11th house and 
Jupiter in the 9th. The Maaraka position 2 is not occupied by any 
planet. But the Baadhaka - Maaraka position 7 is occupied by sun, 


A Course in Indian Astrology 65 
Venus and Kethu of whom Sun and Kethu are distinctly malefic 
while Venus though a benefic is the lord of an unfavourable 12th 
house. 

It is certain that the death of thenative would be closely as- 
sociated with these planets, that is at a time governed by these 
planets]. 

19. Do the Baadhaka - Maaraka lords aspectany home ? (Moon 
aspects the fifth house, while Jupiter ,aspects the first house, third 
house and the fifth house ?) 

20. Find out the lords of 3, 6, 11, their position and their as- 
pects. {The lord of 3, 6 and 11 are malefic). 

The lord of 3rd house, Sun is occupying the 7th house along 
with Venus and Kethu and aspects the first house. Also itis aspected 
by its enemy Rahu. 

The lord of the 6th, and eleventh. Mars is posited in the 11th 
house along with Moon and aspects the houses 2.5 and 6. Mars 
aspects the lord ofLagna (Mercury) andthe 8thlord (Saturn). Itis 
occupying its own sign which is its Moolakshethra also. The lord of 
11th also is Mars. 

21.Keeping out the positions 2, 3,6,7,8, 11 and 12 which are 
unfavourable due to one reason or another, which are the favour- 
able positions ? Find out the lord of these houses, the planets pos- 
ited there and the aspect of these. 

[The remaining positions which are not unfavourable are 1, 
4, 5, 9 and 10. These houses are governed by Mercury, (1 and 4), 
Venus (5), Saturn (9) and Jupiter (10). The lord of Lagna (and 4th 
house) Mercury is in conjunction with Saturn the lord of the 9th. 
Venus the lord of the fifth in posited in the 7th and is in conjunction 
with Sun and Kethu and aspects the first house. Saturn is in the 
sixth with the lordofLagna and aspects the 8th house, 12th the 3rd 
house. But aspects no planet. The 10th lord Jupiter has also lord- 
ship of 7th, posited in 9th aspects the Lagna, 3rd house and the 
fifth]. 

22. Is there any planet in the first house ? Is it a benefic or a 
malefic ? (Rahu is in the Lagna. It is a malefic and aspects the Sun 
and Venus in the 7th) 

The above analysis concerns mostly the first house. In the 
same way one has to read about the other 11 houses. 


UNIT 15 


In this unit we give the important points regarding the posi- 
tion and lordships of'the planets with reference to the model horo- 


66 A Course in Indian Astrology 
scope described in the previous lesson. The general rules given in 
this unit are concerned with the planets mainly and are to be modi- 
fied according to each horoscope 

1.If in any house, there are malefics, that house loses 
strength, generally 

In the model horroscope, Rahu in the first house, Saturn in 
the sixth house, Sun and Kethu in the seventh house and Mars in 
the eleventh house are malefics (Natural). But the positions 3, 6 
and 11 are favourable positions for malefics. Thus inthis horoscope 
Sun and Kethu in the 7th house and Rahu in the Ist house cause 
weakness to those houses. 

2.Occupation and aspects ofmalefic would cause weak- 
ness to any house. 

Sun is a malefic by nature and by lordship of 3rd house and 
aspects the first house. Mars is naturally malefic and this nature is 
intensified by the lordship of 6th and 11th houses. So though pow- 
erful in occupation (own house and favourable Ilthposition) Mars 
foretell weakness for the 11th house and to the houses 2, 5 and 6 
which are aspected by it. Saturn and the lord of Lagna (Mercury) 
are aspected by Mars. This is evil aspect falling on the two benefic 
of this horoscope-Saturn (9th lord) and Mercury (Lagna lord). 

3.Ifany house is occupied by the planet for whigh it is 
debilitation position, that becomes weak. 

{No planet of debilitation in the model chart). 

4.The presence of a benefic planet in a house makes 
the house strong.. 

(But the planet should be benefic in the horoscope by position 
also). 

In the model chart, the ninth house is occupied by a benefic- 
Jupiter (However, Jupiter is a malefic for this horoscope on account 
of the lordship oftwo quadrants, 7 and 10 and also as the lord of 
Maraka position and of Baadhaka position These malefic charac- 
ters need mainly be taken accountofwhen we consider what Jupiter 
confers on the native). 

5.Ifbenefic and malefic both occupy a house, result is 
mixed. 

The presence of Venus (benefic) and Sun (malefic) in the sev- 
enth house indicates that the effect of the seventh house would be 
the experience both favourable and adverse. 

6.When a malefic is in a friendly sign or in exaltation 
it would give the good aspects of its significations. 

Sun is posited in Dhanus which is owned by Jupiter which is 


A Course in Indian Astrology 67 

friendly to the Sun. This is good. But Sun has the conjunction of 
two enemies, Venus and Kethu in the same sign. This has an op- 
posite effect. No planet is in exaltation in this horoscope. But if 
Saturn instead of Vrischika were posited in Thula it would have 
added strength to that house. 

7. When the lord of theLagna is posited in a house that 
house is strengthened.. 

The occupation of Mercury in the 6th house strengthens that 
house. 6 is unfavourable house on the whole, but it has its favour- 
able significations also. These are strengthened. 

8.When a planet is posited in an unfavourable posi- 
tion with respect to a house, it will weaken the house, 

6, 8 and 12 are unfavourable positions. Thus Satum would be 
unfavourable to the Ilthhouse and Jupiter to the second house, 

9. Planets in own signs, Moolakshethra, exaltation sign 
and friendly sign will be beneficial to that house. 

Thus Mars is posited in the 11th house -Maesha- which ts 
the Moolakshethra. Also itis his own sign. In both ways the 11th 
house is strengthened. 

10.Malefics in quadrants and trines (Kendra and 
Thrikona) are not generally good and beneflcs in such posi- 
tion are good. 

Thus the Sun, Kethu and Rahu are occupying quadrants (7 
and 1), The position of Venus in a quadrant (7th) is good in this 
way, but it is unfavourable in another way, as the significator of 
the spouse. (The general rule is that the significator weakens a house 
when he occupies houses signified by him) 

11. Planets aspected by strong planets also become 
strong. 

12.When a planet has two lordships. 

The lordship of the house where it has its Moolashethra is 
more important; also the lordship of the odd sign will be important 
if the planet is posited in and odd sign and the even sign becomes 
Tmportant if it is posited in an even sign. Further, of the two houses 
governed by the planet that house with respect to which the planet 
is posited more favourable gets importance. Take for instance the 
case of, Saturn. ltis lord of 8 and 9. Since 9th house is in Kumbha 
which is the Moolakshethra, Saturn is to be treated as the 9th lord 
rather than as the lord of 8. 

13.When the lord of the occupation sign of a planet is 
strong the planet also is strong. 

Thus Mercury occupies the sign of Mars which is powerfulin 


68 21Course indndiamstrology 
its Moolashethra. Hence in this aspect Mercury can be considered 
powerful. 

14. Ifa planet has malefic on either side ofit, on the 4th 
and 8th signs from it, or in its trines, it becomes very weak. This 
affliction is especially powerful in the case of signification of a house 
or matter. In the horoscope no planet is flanked by malefic. For 
instance when the significator ofmarriage is concerned. 

The converse also is true, namely the flanking on either side 
by benefic or the occupation of 4th and eighth and trines (5 and 9) 
by benefic is beneficial. In this horoscope there is no such flanking. 


UNIT 16 


Having analysed the horoscope from the standpoint of the 
planets, let usnow analyse thehoroscope with respect to the houses. 
(Read these rules many times as possible and assimilate the princi- 
ples and form concepts) 

1. When the lord of a house is powerful, the house also 
is strong. 

Here in the example horoscope (UNIT 15) the 11th house is 
strengthened as the lord of the house Mars is powerful (with re- 
spect to its position in this horoscope) 

2.The occupation in, as well as aspects of the lord on 
the house, will confer strength on the house. 

Here the ilith house being occupied by the lord, Mars gains 
Strength, the sixth house also gains strength by the aspect by its 
lord Mars from its Moolashethra. Similarly the 8th house is aspected 
by its lord, Saturn, who is also in conjunction with the lord ofLagna 

This is beneficial since 8th house is the house of life and longevity 
and Saturn is the significator of longevity. Again the lord is in a 
favourable position to that house (11th to the eighth house). 

3. The occupation and aspect ofa malefic or the enemy 
of thelord on a house will cause weakness to the house.. 

Thus the first house is afflicted by the occupation of Rahu, a 
maiefic. Similarly the aspect of the Moon on the fifth house is not 
beneficial since Moon is inimical to the house-lord, Venus, both by 
nature and also temporarily. 

4. Malefics and the lord of 6th, 8th and 12th houses 


A Course in Indian Astrology 69 
weaken a house by their occupation as well as aspects, ex- 
cept when they are themselves the lords of that house or 
Lagna or a trine. 


5.Occupation by a planet in debilitation or otherwise 
weak, causes weakness of a house. 

6.When the lord ofa house is in its debilitation. or is in 
and mimical sign or in a position unfavourable to the house (6, 8, 12 
from the house), the significations ofthat house will not be favour- 
able. However occupation or aspects ofbenefic on the lord will par- 
tially counteract this affliction. 
~ 7. When the lord of ahouse is occupying the eighth house and 
if that happens to be either an inimical sign or debilitation then 
also the house would become weakened. 

8. When the lord of the occupation sign of a house-lord is 
posited in unfavourable positions the house is weakened. 

9- Houses which are occupied by or aspected by the friends df 
the lord or by benefic, would be strengthened. 

10. When the lord ofa house is in conjunction with malefic or 
aspected by malefic or when the houses owned by the lord are occu- 
pied or aspected by malefic the house is weakened. 

11.When a house or its lord have conjunction or aspects of 
benefic, the house is strengthened. 

12, The lord of the Ascendant makes the house occupied by 
him very strong; and the results of that house would be experi- 
enced in full 

13. The conjunction, aspect and occupation of the quadrants 
or trines (with respect to the house) by the lord of Lagna is very 
much favourable to any house. 

14. For each house and its lord the conjunction and aspects of 
the lord of the ninth house (9th from the house) is very much fa- 
vourable. 

15. Malefics which arelords of quadrants will become beneflcs. 

16. All planets which are lords oftrines (5 and 9) will become 
benefic. Their conjunction and aspects make any house strong. 

17. It is not desirable to have malefic occupying quadrants, 
though their lordship of quadrants makes them benefic. 

18. When benefice become lords of quadrants, they become 
malefic. This is particularly important in the case of Jupiter and 
Venus, and less important in Mercury and least in Moon. 

In the model horoscope Jupiter who is benefic becomes ma- 
lefic on account ofits lordship of the two quadrants 7 and 10. 


70 A Course in Indian Astrology 
19. The lord of the 8th is not beneficial generally, but when 

the Sun and-Moon have the lordship of the eighth house, they are 

not to be treated malefic on account of this (the lordship of 8th): 

20. In considering each house, that house may be assumed as 
the Lagna and the strength or weakness of thehouse or house lords 
may be judged from the positions, lordships and aspects of planets 
and lords occupying other houses. 

Go through the last three units repeatedly and familiarise 
yourselves with the way in which we can read from the horoscope 
the mutual relations between the various houses and planets. Into 
these relations, we have to incorporate the signification of theplan- 
ets and the houses also. 


A Great Horoscope. 


UNIT 17 


You would remember that in a previous lesson the horoscope 
of Swamy Vivekanandaji (UNIT 14) was mentioned. You would have 
answered the 23 questions about that great horoscope. Everyone is 
familiar with the Ufe and work of Swamiji. Now you have acquired 
some skill in ‘reading’ a horoscope. However, before you are able to 
predict a horoscope correctly you must have confidence and belief 
in the several Astrological dicta and postulates, for which we do not 
have formal proof but only the empirical truth in them which we 
have gained by experience. Let us analyse the horoscope of Swami- 
ji. You would be surprised to learn that Swamiji's life is in exact 
agreement with the astrological predictions. The horoscope is given 
in the next page. 


A Course in IndianAstrology 71 


To begin with, we find that the Ascendant is in Dhanu; to be 
more exact in the last Drekkaana of Dhanus (Each sign is divided 
into three subdivisions of 10 each. This is known as 'Draekkaana or 
Decanate meaning 1/3 ofa sign). Any standard work on astrology 
would give the characteristic of the person born in each Draekkaa- 
na or each sign (a total of 12 X 3 = 36). The sloka for the last 
Draekkaana of Dhanus is given below: 

Kurchee naro haataka champaakaabhoa 

Varaasanae dandadharoa __nishannah. 

Kowsaeyahaonyudwahathayjinam cha 

Thrutheeyaroopam navamasya raash 

The meaning of the sloka is as follows: 

The person born inthe third portion (Draekkaana) ofthe ninth 
sign (Dhanus) will be holding the “dandw’ (sacred stick of Yogis) 
and be seating himself in “Padmasana’ (the “Lotus pose of seating’ 
for meditation) will be dressed in ochre-dyed clothes and will be 
wearing skin of deer. 

It is surprisingly accurate and it is our duty to investigate 
how our learned sages could arrive at such descriptions As a pre- 
Jiminary we have to learn their theories and at least make faithful 
Study and application. 

In this chart Dhanu (Sagittarius) is the first house. The lord 
of the second house, Saturn is occupying the 10th house in conjunc- 
tion with the ‘Ashtamadhipathi’ (8th lord, Moon). Saturn in the 
10th promise high attitudes in life, the lord of the second in the 
10th would also confer wisdom but the native would have no child- 
ren. The native will also be honoured by all. In the second house 
(signifying speech) the lord of 9th, Sun (Bhagyadhipathi is in con- 


72 A Course in Indian Astrology 

junction with the lord of 7 and 10 (Mercury) who is also the signifi- 
cator of learning, and the lord of 6 and 11 Venus). The second house 
Makara is inimical to Sun, less so for Mercury and Neutral to Venus. 
So to the house of speech (2nd) the sun will confer depth and spir- 
ituality and sharpness, Mercury will confer knowledge and oratori- 
cal and literary skill and Venus would confer characteristic beauty 
and attraction, all obvious is Swamiji's speeches. 

The Lord of the 3rd house, (Saturn) is in conjunction with the 
lord of 8th house, Moon in the house of Karma (10th). The third 
house is aspected by the lord of Lagna (Jupiter) from the eleventh 
house. The third house signifies communications, writing books and 
the life. Saturn has the signification of spiritual matters. No won- 
der that due to the delicate co-operation between Saturn, Jupiter 
and Mercury through the houses 3, 10, 1 and 11 Swami became 
the author of world famous spiritual books of everlasting fame and 
value. 


The lord of thefourth house (representing mother, education 
etc) is Jupiter who is also the lord of Lagna. The lord himself is 
posited in a position unfavourable to the house (8th from the house). 
Also the house is aspected by the lord of 8th house (Moon ) and the 
lord of the third house (Saturn) both of which are very unfavour- 
able to the house. Regarding the matters associated with the fourth 
house we know there were difficulties and hindrances and delays 
signified by Saturn and lord of 8th. « 

The fifth house signifies the mind, intelligence, wisdom, 
sruthi, smruthi, upanishads, children etc, The house is aspected by 
the lord of Lagna Jupiter. Jupiter's aspect is very auspicious and 
has a purifying effect- removing all evil. The fifth house signifying 
the mental attitude and Jupiter being very powerful as the lord of 
Lagna and the significator of spiritual, religious and divine mat- 
ters, even at an young age Swamiji's mind yearned for god-realisa- 
tion. His wisdom was associated with every mature thought of the 
sacred Upanishads Sruthi and Smruthi. 

The tenth house is that of Mercury and is occupied by Saturn 
(Lord of 2 and 3) and Moon (Lord of 8). 10 is the house of Karma 
and Saturn in the house of its friendly planet, conferred a life of 
sacrifices and renunciation, consequent fame of everlasting nature 
and spiritual bent. The occupation of Moon in the 10th house with 
the lord of a trine to the 10th house is an auspicious combination 
promising glory and fame. 


Look at the seventh house representing marriage. The lord of 
the house (7 th), the lord of the9th house and also the sigmficator of 


ACourse in Indian Astrology 73 
marriage and earthly pleasures (Venus) are posited in a very unfa- 
vourable position (8th from the 7th house). The conjunction between 
Venus and Mercury is not auspicious as far as marriage is con- 
cerned. So also the significator of children (Jupiter) is flanked on 
either side by malefic and the significator in this seriously afflicted 
state is aspecting the fifth house. So as far as the matter of children 
are concerned the otherwise strong fifth house does not give prom- 
ises Raahu is posited in the 8th from the fifth house. This is also 
the 12th house representing separation. 

There is so much more about this horoscope. However, the 
detailed horoscope with the exact longitudes of the planets, Ascend- 
ant and the houses will be so much more fascinating and in every 
small detail would be in agreement with the life of the native. With 
what has been described above we are sure that you would have 
been convinced about the fantastic accuracy of Astrological predic 
tions and its far reaching applicability. Also after a few lessons which 
would have given you a lot of confusion, now you would have re- 
gained your original burning interest and curiosity to learn Astrol- 
ogy more. We shall be discussing more horoscopes agairand again. 
Meanwhile try to analyse the other houses in Swamiji's horoscope, 


74 ACourse in Indian Astrology 


Ruling Periods of Planets 
(Graha Dasaas) 


UNIT 18 


So far, we have seen how it is possible to predict about the 
various auspicious and inauspicious events and experiences which 
a person would have to come across in his lifetime, from a skilful 
judgement of the relative positions and strengths of the 12 houses 
and nine planets at the time of birth. Further, there are certain 
special conjunctions called ‘yogas’ which confer on the native spe- 
cific auspiciousness and attainments. There are also evil conjunc- 
tions which foretell evil and inauspicious effects. The 'Raajayogaas' 
which are special conjunctions conferring, royal prosperity, are a 
special type of auspicious conjunctions. But naturally the question 
arises as to when would the native enjoy the effects. No one in this 
world is completely happy or completely unhappy throughout one's 
life. The problem of timing of various events and of the enjoyment 
and suffering foretold by the planets is solved in astrology by the 
system of “Periods” or Dasaas. 'Dasa' is a specified interval in the 
life span of the native over which a particular planet would be gov- 
erning and in which the particular planet will be causing its 
significatory experiences. Several system of periods (Dasaas) are 
postulated by the sages of old but the system called “Vimshoathari 
Dasa' or 'Udu Dasa' or 'Nakshathra Dasa’ is the most widely used, 
among Astrologers because of its applicability and ease of judge- 
ment. This system is advocated by the great 'Paraasaara'. 


According to this system, the human life span is fixed as 120 
years and hence its name ‘Vimshothar? meaning the period of 120 
years. This life span of 120 years are divided into 9 periods each one 
being governed by one of the nine planets. But each period gov- 
erned by each planet is different in duration, that is the span (120 


A Course in Indian Astrology ' 75 
years) is not equally divided among the planets. Further the start- 
ing 'Dasa' at the birth time and its ruler planet (Dasa lord) is de- 
cided by the star at which the native is born and that period is ruled 
by the lord of that star. For example the lord of 'Aswathi' star is 
‘Kethw and so if a person is born in 'Aswathi' star his starting Dasa 
will be ruled by Kethu. Like this Bharani born native starts his life 
with Venus period, Karthika starts with Sun Dasa and so on and so 
forth (Please refer to the table given below). 

The number of years allotted to be ruled by each planet, that 
is the period of each planet, and the stars deciding the Ruler planet 
of the period at birth-time are given in the following table. 


Planet No. of Years Constellation 
ruled by the 
planet 
Kethu aD Aswini, Magha, 
Moala. 
Venus (Sukra) 20 Bharani, 
Poorvaphalguni, 
Poorvaashaadha. 
Sun (Ravi) 6 Krithika, 
Uthraphaalguni, 
Uthaareshaadha. 
Moon (Chandra) 10 Rohini, Hastha, 
Srevana. 
Mars (Kuja) 7 Mrigaseersha, 
Chithra, Sravishta. 
Rahu 18 Aardra, Swaathi, 
Swathi, Sathab 
hishak. 
Jupiter (Guru) 16 Punarvasu, Visaa 
kha, Poorvabhadra. 
Saturn (Sam) 19 Pushya An 
uraadha, 
Utharabhadra. 
Mercury (Budha) 17 Aaslaesha, 


Jyeshta, Revathi. 
Total 120 years 


The sequence of the various periods is as given in the tables 
so you will have to remember the exact order as well as the number 
of years corresponding to each period (please note the difference in 
the order and sequence of planets fromthe regular sequence of week- 
day lords). It should be noted that only a person living upto the 


76 A Course in Indian Astrology 
very ripe age of 120 will have the chance to experience all the afore- 
said nine periods in full. Those who live for a shorter time, would 
not experience all the ‘periods’. They will experience some of the 
periods only proportionate to their life span. 

Now you would be having doubt, namely whether every per- 
son would be having the Kethu-period at birth. Good doubt of course. 
The answeris 'no'. The first period, that is, the period at the time of 
birth is decided by the star (constellation) at birth. In the table of 
periods given above you would find the list of stars ruled by each 
planet. (Though this has been described earlier in unit 4, we repeat 
it here for convenience). 

If the asterism (star) at birth for a native is governed by a 
particular planet, then the native will have the period of that planet 
first, and then the other periods will follow in the prescribed order 
in cycles - that is after Mercury - Dasa, Kethu-Dasa will follow. In 
other words the Dasa at the time of birth would be that of the lord 
of the star at birth. Thus for persons born in the stars Rohini’, 
‘Hastha' or 'Sravana' the first period is that of Moon. The Moon's 
period is followed by that of Mars and so on. For a person born in 
the Asterism ‘Anuraadha’ the first period is that of Saturn, the sec- 
ond period would be that of Mercury which is followed by the period 
of Kethu then of Venus and so forth, (Now try to find out the start- 
ing Dasa of yours your relatives at home and friends after ascer- 
taining their birth star). 


So it is easy to know the starting period and subsequent peri- 
ods for any native provided we know his star atbirth, which will be 
usually given in the horoscope. Already we have learned that the 
asterism (star), (Nakshathra), (constellations) is determined by the 
position of the moon at the time of birth. Now you are advised to 
look back in the old lessons where the significance of asterism is 
explained in terms of the 'longitude' of the moon. We have also 
learned how to know the star, using an almanac. This knowledge is 
necessary uow. All the successive periods in the sequence of periods 
would be for the whole time allotted to each planet, except the first 
(that is the period at birth). The span (n umber of years) of the first 
period to be enjoyed by each native will have to be calculated from 
the time of birth. So till you revise the lessons on stars and their 
significance, let us have a digression to some exercise. 


EXERCISES: 


1. Spot the lords of the following stars, Aardra, Visaakha, Hastha, 
Revathi, Poorvaaphalguni, Chithra, Anuraadha, Sathabhishak, 
. Utharsashaedha. 


A Course i Indian Astrology 77 


2. Give the sequence of periods of each of the above stars. 

3. Give the names of stars governed by Rahu, Venus, Moon, Saturn, 
Mercury and Sun. 

4. A person was born in the asterism, Hastha and his first period 
was only for 2 years and 6 months from birth. If he lives upto 8 months 
after the beginning of Kethu period, what was his age at death ? 

5. Repeat reading the table of periods written by yourself as fol- 
lows Asvini, Magha, Moola-Kethu 7 years Bharani, Poorvaphalguni, 
Poorvashadha Venus- 20 years etc. 


Balance of Period 
(Garbha Sishta Dasa) 


UNIT 19 


In the last lesson we have learned to find out the sequence 
and duration of Dasa in the life of a person, depending upan, the 
asterism (star) in which he is born, However all persons born in 
that asterism would not be having the first Dasa for the full length 
of it, except when they are born at the very beginning oftheasterism 
(i.e. when the moon has just entered that constellation), Thus, if 
the birth of a person happens to be at the mid point of the star he 
would be starting the first period at its middle point only. Thus he 
would have the first Dasa, only for half of the full length of that 
Dasa. So the first Dasa would be enjoyed only for a fraction of the 
full-length equal to the fraction of theinterval to be transferred in 
that star. For instance, let us consider a birthin the star Bharani 
Now we can immediately say that the period at the birth time that 
is the first Dasa is that of the star lord Venus. Venus Dasa extends 
upto 20 years when it is enjoyed in full. If the birth is at the begin- 
ning of Bharani the Venus Dasa of the person would be for 20 years 
from birth. 


Let us suppose that the birth time of the person was when 24 


78 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Ghatis are passed after the commencement ofthestar Bharani (you 
will remember, 1 Ghati = 24 min. so that 24 Ghatis = 9 hour 36 
minutes). Now we.must know the total duration of Bharani corre- 
sponding to this birth. This we can obtain from the almanac. 
Suppose this is 62 Ghatis. 
So the duration or Bharani = Star duration - duration 
passed yet to be traversed 
in the birth star. 
62- 24= 38 Ghatis. 
So the fraction of Venus = (38 x 20 ) + 62 
period for the person 
The duration of Venus period = 38/62 (full duration of Venus 
Dasa) 
(38 x 20)/62, 
12 x 16 /62 
= 12 years 3 months 2 days. 
54 Ghatis and 11x 32 / 62 vighatis. 
= 12y.3m. 2d. 54gh. 12 vigh. 
This is called the ‘balance of period’ or balance of Dasa for the 
native. (Garbha -sishta - Dasa). It may be noted that in converting 
the fraction ofan year, we use the conversion scale of 12 months for 
an year, 30 days for a month and 60 gh. for a day. When dates are 
fixed corresponding adjustments may become necessary since every 
month does not have 30 days. 
Let us take another example: 
Time of birth = 01-04-1988; IST 0930 A.M. 
Place = Thiruvananthapuram 
From the almanac we get the following information 
Asterism (Nakshathra) at birth — Uthra 
The star begins at = 29 gh. 55 vigh. 
on 31-03-88 after sunrise. 
The star ends 36 gh.11 V/2gh. on 1.4.88 after sunrise 
Sunrise on 31-03-88. = 06.25 A.M. IST. 
Sunrise on 01-04-88 = 06.24A.M. IST. 
Time in hours from sunrise on 
31-03-88 till the sunrise on 
01-04-88 = 23 gh. 59 min. 
= 59 gh. 57% vigh. 
Uthra begins only 29 gh. 55 vigh. after sunrise on 31-03-88. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 79 
Thus the duration of Uthra from 
its beginning till sunrise on 
01-04-88 = 59 gh. 57 tf vigh. 
29 gh. 55 vigh. 
30 gh. 4 % vigh, 
> The duration of Uthra after 


sunrise on 01-04-88 till the end = 36 gh. 11 vigh. 
Total duration of the star 
Uthra on 31-03-88 & 01-04-88= 30 gh. 4 % vigh + 


36 gh. 11 vigh. 
= 66 gh 15 Vi vigh. 


Birth time = 09.30 A.M. on 01-04-88. 
Sunrise on the day = 06-24 A.M. 
Time between birth and sunrise = 3 hr. 6 min. 

= 7 gh. 45 vigh. 


Thus duration of Uthra passed at the birth time. 
30 gh. 04 vigh, + 
= 7 gh. 45 vigh. 
= 37 gh 49 % vigh. 

Thus birth was in Uthra after 37 gh. 49 % vigh. from the 
starting point of Uthra since the total duration of Uthra is 66 gh. 14 
vigh. the duration in Uthra after birth. 

66 gh. 15 vigh. 
3.7 gh. 49 vigh. 
= 28 gh. 26 vigh. 

For the stars Krithika, Uthra and Utharashadha the lord is 
the Sun. The full Dasa of the sun is six years (see previous unit). 
Balance of sun - Dasa for above person 

(28 gh. 26 vigh.) x 6 Years. 
66 gh. 15 “%vigh 
= 1706 vigh. x 6 Years. 
3075.5 vigh. 
, = 2 Years 6 Months 26 Days 
55 Ghatis 2 Vighatis. 

So from birth 2y. 6m. 26 d. 55 gh. 2 2 vigh. the person would 
have the period of sun. This will be followed by the Period of Moon 
for the next 10 years. Period of Mars for the next 7 years, period of 
Rahu for the next 18 years and so on. 

(Using an ephemeris we can calculate the exact longitude of 
the moon and hence determine the asterism more easily, taking 
into consideration the time of sunrise and the like. In the lesson 
dealing with the location of starsin the zodiac we have learned that 


80 A Course in Indian Astrology 
each star area located ina specific angular sector of the zodiac. Each 
star has an angular portion of 13* 20' in the serial order. Thus you 
will remember that Aswini rules the region 0 tO 13° 20' in the zo- 
diac, this is the beginning of the zodiac. 13" 20 to 26° 40 is the star 
Bharani. Both these fall in the sign Aries (Maesha) and so on. So 
knowing the longitude of the Moon it is easier to find out the star 
and also the balance of Dasa. Since the span of each star is 13° 20 ( 
=800'), ifthe Moon has to travel X minutes in the particular star at 
birth. 

Balance of Dasa = X + 800 X (number ofyears of the Dasa 
lord) years. 

Tables to read the Balance of Dasa directly from the longi- 
tude of the Moon, are also available in modern almanacs and 
Ephemeris). 

For the present let us use the method of calculation from the 
time of birth in a star, Later, we would change over to the Ephemeris, 
in more detailed calculations. 

EXERCISES: 

Let us now make a few calculations about Dasaas. 

1, Calculate the various Dasas and the duration of each in 
their order, for the following cases. 


Star of birth Duration of Star ‘ Duration to be 
(total) passed in the star 
after birth. 
{a)’ Hastha 62 gh. 30 gh. 
(b) Pushya BS gh. 07 gh. 
(<0. Aslesha 60 gh. 02 gh. 
(d) Jyeshta 60 gh. 50 gh. 


2. What would be the age of case (a) if he dies in the Mercury Dasa 
after having enjoyed 10 years of it? 

3. Ifin case (hb) the native gets married at the age of 29, what would 
be the [aes at the time of marriage ? How many years of that Dasa 
would he enjoy after the marriage ? 

4. If the ascendants of each of the above cases are respectively 
Maesha, Vrishabha, Kataka and Kumbha, what is th house in which 
moan is posited in each of the above horoscopes ? 


A Course in Indian Astrology 8] 


Bhukthi or Apahaara 
(Sub Period) 


UNIT 20 


We have learned how the life span ofa person is divided into 
various periods (dasaas) ruled by each planet for instance a person 
enjoys 20 years of the period of Venus, 7 years of the period of Kethu 
or the relevant periods of other planets. During each such period 
the particular Dasa-lord would be influencing the native in all as- 
pects of his life divided through the various houses. Whether the 
influence is beneficial or evil will depend upon the relation between 
the Dasa-lord and the Lagna, and also on the relation between the 
Dasa-lord and the lords of eachofthe houses representing the vari- 
ous aspects of life. However, the entire period of a lord would not be 
uniformly bad. Because thea period of each lord is influenced by all 
the planets who can be either benefic or malefic by their position in 
the horoscope. In order to know these subtle influences, provision 
is made in astrological theory. This is very important in predic- 
tions. 


The duration of each Dasa is divided into nine Sub-Periods 
called Apahaara or Bhukthi. one for each planet. The total Dasa 
duration of each planet is divided among the nine planets in the 
same proportion as their own Dasa-duration, and in the same se- 
quence as the Dasas. Thus in the major period (Mahaadasa) of Venus, 
the first sub-period (Bhukti) is that of Venus, the second is that of 
the Sun, the third is that of the Moon, the fourth that of Mars the 
fifth that of Rahu followed by the sub-period of Jupiter, Saturn, 
Mercury, and Kethu in that order (the general order of dasaas). 

In any major Dasa, the first sub-period is that of the Dasa- 
lord itself, which is followed by those of the other planets in the 
sequence prescribed for the Dasaas (Kethu, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, 
Raahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury). 


82 A Course in Indian Astrology 

The calculation of the sub-periods in a major period is simple. 
Multiply the total period of the Mahaadasa by the total period of 
the sub-period lord and divide it by 120 (the span of human life). 
For example, in the major period of Venus which extends over 20 
years, the sub-period of Venus is 20 s120 of the total and it works out 
as 20 x 20/120 years, that is 3 years and 4 months. The next sub 
period is that of the Sun in the total of 120 years. Therefore, Sub 
period of the Sun in Venus Dasa = 6x 20/120 years = 1 year. Simi- 
larly, the sub-period of the Moon in Venus Dasa = 10 x 2) I& years 
= | year 8 months. 

The principle may be applied to find out the sub-periods of 
other planets (Mars, Raahu, Jupiter, Saturn and Kethu. Please work 
it out. Usually the sub-periods of planets in each major period would 
be given in some almanacs and in the Ephemeris in the form of 
Ready Reckoner. All the books is Astrology also would be giving the 
table of Dasaas and Bhukthis. 

Here is an easy method to calculate the duration of any sub- 
period in any major period. Multiply the number of years of Dasa of 
the Dasa-lord with the number of years of Dasa of the Bhukti lord. 
The last digit of this number multiplied by 3 would be the number 
of months in the Bhukti. 

For example, let us calculate the Bhukti of Sun in the period 
of Kethu. 


Dasa years 0. Sun — 6, 
Dasa years of Kethu = 7. 
7x 6= 42. 


The last digit is 2 and 2x 3 = 6 is the number of days. Strik- 
ing 2 from 42 we get the number 4 and this is the number of months 
in the Bhukth: Therefore the Bhukti of Sun in the Dasa of Kethu= 
4 months 6 days. 

Similarly Bhukti of Saturn in the Dasa of Moon is obtained 
by multiplying the respective Dasa years. 19 x 10= 190, 
Last digit is zero. so 0 days. 

Removing the zero we get 19 as months. 
Hence the required Bhukthiis 1 year 7 months 0 day. 

It may be noted that the bhukthi of one planet in the Dasa of 
another would be the same as the Bhukti of the second planet in 
the Dasa of the first. 

(For ready reference it is advisable that you would prepare a 
chart in which there are 9 rows and 9 columns. At the top of each 
column write down the name of the planet starting from Kethu, 
then Venus, then Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn and Mer- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 53 
cury in the above order (Dasa order), one planet at the top ofeach 
column on the left of each row write down similarly the names of 
the planets one in each row, in the same order from Kethu to Mer- 
cury. Now write down the Bhukti corresponding to planets A and b 
in the position where A tops the column and B heads the row. Pre- 
pare the chart and keep it for future reference). 

Note 1: You would most probably be having a doubt. What 
about the Bhukthis in the first Dasa ofwhich the native enjoys only 
a fraction ? In such cases the full length of the Dasa is distributed 
amoug all the planets and we find out the sub-period of the Dasa in 
which the native is born from the fraction of the star passed before 
birth 1t may also be calculated from the balance of Dasa, we can 
calculate the portion of the Dasa which is not enjoyed by the native. 
This would be the difference between the Dasa-years of the lord 
and the balance of Dasa. So you get the Dasa duration lost by the 
native. Find out then the Bhukthis which are lost fully by succes: 
sively subtracting each bhukti. Finally, you would get a balance 
from which a particular Bhukthicannot be subtracted. So the per- 
son is born in this bhukthi, out of which he has lost a portion, equal 
to the above balance. 

An illustration would make the process very clear. Suppose a 
person is born in the Jupiter Dasa, with a balance of Dasa equal to 
5 years 10 months Let us calculate the Bhuktis. 


Full duration of Jupiter= 16 y. 

Subtract, Balance of Dasa = Sy. 10 m. 

Duration lost in the Dasa = 16 y/5 y. 10 m. 
10 ¥. 2 m. 

Now subtract successively the Various Bhukthis in the Dasa 

from. 

Jupiter's Bhukthi - 10 y. 2m. 00 
O2y. lm 18d. 

Saturn's Bhukthi a 8y. 0m. 12d. - 
2y6m, 12d, 

Mercury's Bhukthi = Sy. 6m. 0d, + 
Oy. 11m 6d. 

Kethu's Bhukthi = 3y. 2m, 24d. - 
Oy. 11 m. 064d. 

Venus's Bhukthi = 22y.3m. 18d. - 
2y. 8m Od. 


Now you cannot subtract this. so the native is born in the 
Venus-Bhukthi of Jupiter Dasa. For the native this bhukthi is not 
fully available. It is evident that before birth 2y. 8m. - 2y. 3m. 18d. 


84 A Course in Indian Astrology 
=4m. 12 d. of Venus Bhukthi after birth. After this the other 
Bhukthis are fully available. 

Note 2: Each ofthe Bhukthis are further subdivided in the 
same. way among the 9 planets and these are known as Chhidra 
(sub-sub-period). The first chhidra in a Bhukthi is that of the 
Bhukthi-lord. Thus the Chhidra duration of Mercury in the Bhukthi 
of Saturn in the Venus. Dasa is calculated as follows: 

Saturn's Bhukthi in Venus Dasa = 20 x 19 + 120 = 3y. 2m. 
The first Chhidra in Saturn's Bhukthi is that of Saturn itself and 
would be for a duration of (3 y. 2m. 38m.) (38 x 19}/120 m= 6m. 
0d. 30 gh. This is followed by Mercury's Bhukthi which is equal to 
By.2m.) 17/12= (38x 17)/120m=8m. 11d. 30gh. Similarly the 
Chhidras of other planets can be calculated in each Bhukthi. 

As the 'Bhukthis' are subdivided into Chhidra each Chhidra 
is further subdivided into 9 ‘Sookshmas’ and each sookshma into 9 
'Praanaas'. This means that every moment in the life of a person is 
influenced by a number of planets. However, only very few Astrolo- 
gers go beyond the Chhidras in native analysis of horoscope. When 
one has gained sufficient experience be may go to the sookshmaas 
and praanaas in due course for timing events in life to a high de- 
gree of accuracy. We are sure that you aspire to acquire this much 
efficiency and we wish you success. The success and correctness of 
the predictions depend on finding out the effects of the Dasa lord, 
Bhukthi lord, Chhidra lord, Sookshma lord and Praanaa lord on 
each aspect (house of the horoscope). When such is the nature of 
calculation it is no wonder that very few Astrologers do analyse a 
horoscope correctly and without failure. 


Now you will be feeling the tedium of calculations and your 
tired psyche is about to start arguing that by prolonged calculation 
why should one find out, from the time of birth and the Asterism, 
the “Dasa, Bhukthi, Chhidra, Sookshma and Praana ?" Is it going 
to be of real use ? Yes, certainly, A planet would give the native the 
good or evil results of its position in the horoscope in one of its 
ruling periods Viz. Dasa or Bhukthi or Chhidra or Sookshma or 
Praanaa in the most suitable manner. This can be judged witha 
good measure of precision. Would we be able to correlate all these 
complex items for a correct judgement ? Do not be perplexed. You 
are certainly going to do it successfully in due course. Where there 
is a will there is a way. Such judgements are useful too, 


ACourse in Indian Astrology 85 

For instance suppose in a horoscope the 4th house (which 
concerns with residence, vehicles, education, mother @tc.) is aspected 
by tne significator of vehicle (Venus) from a favourable position which 
is the exaltation sign of Venus. The Astrologer can predict that the 
native would purchase a vehicle. This is only a general statement. 
The Astrologer is bound to predict when the native would possess a 
vehicle. This is to be done by a consideration of periods and sub- 
periods. Here to predict the exact date of having the vehicle, the 
sub-period must be related to the 4th house, the eleventh house 
and Venus. The Astrologer should find out the relevant time, most 
favourable for having a vehicle. For instance, inthe Venus-Dasa, in 
the Bhukthi ofthelord of 4th house andin the chhidra of thelord of 
the 11th house the native would have a vehicle. From a careful 
analysis of the sign corresponding to the fourth house we would be 
able to predict the type ofvehicle too. Are not such predictions won- 
derful ? When you start giving such amazing predictions people 
will admire you. Let us consider another instance- Suppose in a 
horoscope the fourth house is Simha with the Ascendent in 
Vrishabha and that Sun is in Thula (sixth house). Let Saturn be in 
the second house. 


With this general structure, from the facts that the 4th lord 
(Sun) occupies the unfavourable 6th house, that the lord of thesixth 
and seventh houses of the fourth house (Saturn) is in the' second 
house and that Saturn who has also the lordship of 10th house of 
the native, aspecting the 4th house, one can expect that the Bhukthi 
of Saturnin, say, the Mercury Dasa would not be favourable to the 
native’s mother. And ifthe mother is laid up with disease the As- 
trologer may forewarn the native, so that he would be prepared to 
forbear the shock ofthe mother's separation; he would also be to 
inform the close relatives sufficiently early. No one would predict 


56 A Course in In dian Astro logy 
that death would occur positively at a particular period. Here a 
note of suggestion to the learner. The Astrologer should be very 
cautious and should be predicting only on the basis of three or four 
indications of each event. Such predictions would avoid a lot of dif- 
ficulties, and are certainly quite useful. Those who blindly criticise 
Astrology should verify whether Astrological claims of predictions 
are false. If the predictions fail let them attack the science. But why 
they refuse to accept the predictions that become true letter by let- 
ter. At least the critics have to be objective in then assessment. 
When they are satisfied with 60% probability in Modern sciences, 
why is that they do insist on 100% probability for Astrological pre- 
dictions. This is obstinacy and not scientific reasoning. 


Periodwise Analysis of Horoscope 


UNIT 21 


Now we are able to split the life span of anative into a number 
of short intervals of ‘Mahadasaas’ 'Apahaaras (or Bhukthis)* 
‘Chhidraas', Sookshmaas’ and ‘Pranaas’ during which different se- 
quences planets would have to exhibit their influences on the vari- 
ous aspects of the native's life. We are now going to consolidate 
these influences systematically. So before we begin the analysis of 
a horoscope, we must note down the successive ‘Dasa’ intervals of 
the lords from the date of birth and note the various planets that 
influence each intervals of the lords according to the lordship of 
Dasa, Bhukthi or chhidra. Later 'Sookshma' and 'Praana’ also can 
be included. Suppose in the case.ofthe native, with the following 
horo :ope we find that he isbor +; inthe Venus (Sukra) Dasa, witha 
balance ofjust 19 days only. This is called "Garbhasishta DASA". 
So the native would be experiencing the sequence of Dasas after 
Venus Dasa as given in the following order. 


Dasa (From) (age) (Till) (age) 
Venus at birth 19 days 
(Garbhsishta Dasa) 

Sun (6 yrs) OOy Om 19d 06y Om 19d 
Moon (10 yrs) O6y Om 19d 16y Om 19d 
Mars (07 yrs) l6y Om 19d 23y Om 19d 
Raahu (18 yrs) 23y Om 19d 4ly Om 19d 
Jupiter (16 yrs) 4ly Om 19d 57y Om 19d 
Saturn (19 yrs) 57y Om 19d 76y Om 19d 
Mercury (17 yrs) 76y Om 19d 93y Om 19d 
Kethu (07 yrs) 93y Om 19d 100 y Om 194. 


Beyond Kethu's period (100 y 0 m 19 d) he would begin to 
enjoy Venus-Dasa again ifhe fives after this age. Normally we can- 
not expect a person to five for more than 100 years. Even that is 
rare. 

Next we have to split each period above into the various sub- 
periods (Bhukthis or apahaaras). 

Since the above native has only 19 days of Venus-Dasa it is 
obvious that he is born in the last bhukthi of Venus-Dasa i.e.. the 
Bhukthi of Kethu which (here) runs for just 19 days. (As you have 
studied the Venus Dasa has 9 sub periods starting from Venus sub 
period and ending in Kethu sub-period). 

The splitting of the second Dasa (of the Sun) into the Bhukthi 
is given below (The Sun's Dasa starts from 19 days after birth and 
extends to the age 6 years and 19 days). Please refer to the above 
table. 


88 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Bhukthi lords in From Till 

Sun’s Mahaadasa 

and duration of (age) (age) 

each Bhukthi 

Sun (3m 18d> Oy 19d Oy 04m 07d 
Moon(6m) Oy 04m 07d Oy 10m 07d 

Mars (4m 6d) Oy 10m 07d ly 02m 13d 

Raahu (10m 24d) ly 02m 13d 2y 01m 07d 

Jupiter (9m 18d) 2y 01m 07d 2y 10m 25d 

Satum (11m 12d) 2y 10m 25d 3y 10m 07d 
Mercury (10m 06d) 3y 10m 07d 4y 08m 13d 

Kethu (4m 6d) 4y 08m 13d Sy 00m 19d 

Venus (1 yr) S5y 00m 19d 6y 00m 19d. 

(Total 06 yr. from 00 yr. 19d. to 06 yr. OO m. 19 d.) 


In the same way the succeeding Dasaas must be tabulated 
into the various Bhukthis. 

Next each Bhukthi in each Dasa are to be split up into the 
Chhidras. Taking the Sun's own chhidra in the Sim's own 'Bhukthi' 


on the Sun's ‘Dasa’ we get he following distribution. 


Dasa 
Bhukthi 
Chhidra Lords in 
Sun's Bhukthi 
Sun (05d 24 gh) 
Moon (09d) 

Mars (06d 18gh) 
Rahu (16d 12gh) 
Jupiter (14d 24gh) 
Saturn (17d 06gh) 
Mercury (15d 18gh) 
Kethu (06d 18gh) 
Venus (18d OOgh) 


From (age) 


Oy Om 19d OOgh 
Oy Om 24d 24gh 
Oy Im 03d 24gh 
Oy Im 09d 42gh 
Oy Im 25d 54gh 
Oy 2m 10d 18gh 
Oy 2m 27d 24gh 
Oy 3m 12d 42gh 
Oy 3m 19d OOgh 


: Sun from 00 yr. 19d. to O6 yr. 19 d. 
: Sun from 00 yr. 19 d. to 00 yr. 04m. 07 d. 


Till (age) 


Oy Om 24d 24gh 
Oy 1m03d 24 g 

Oy Im 09d 42 gh 
Oy Im 25d 54gh 
Oy 2m 10d 18gh 
Oy 2m 27d 24gh 
Oy 3m 12d 42gh 
Oy 3m 19d OOgh 
Oy 4m 07d OOgh. 


Though, tedious this is very much necessary, because the in- 
fluence of a planet would be concentrated at its Dasa. Bhukthi, 
chhidra etc. In fact if one can go beyond this to the week day ruled 
by the lord planet of the birth star of the native and on the hour of 
the day ruledby that planet (Hora) it would be giving very accurate 
pinpointed results. Even the lordship of day and night hour are 
distributed among the planets (main) each being assigned 1 hour. 
This called “Kalahora’ (we shall learn about kaala Hora in due course) 
Taking all these into consideration one can fix the exact time and 
day when the effect of the planet would be experienced by the na: 


A Course in Indian Astrology 8&9 
tive and the native can be ready to face the situation (This is the 
counselling part of Astrology) and alleviate the misery. 


UNIT 22 


In this unit also we continue the study of the period wise analy- 
sis of horoscope. 

The influence of planets on the life of a native is to be ob- 
tained by a skilful 'compounding' of the four-modes of relations be- 
tween planets and the native. These four modes are as follows: 

1. The distribution of the planets in the various signs of the 
zodiac at the time of birth that is occupation and lordship of houses. 

2. The position of each planet and Bhaava (house) among the 
27 constellations of the zodiac. 

3. The periods and sub ¢ periods based on the moon's Aster- 
ism at birth (Star). 

4. The changing relations between the native and the planets 
during their continuous movement along the zodiac. This is known 
as 'Gochara' or ‘transit’. 

Each planet is continuously moving along the zodiac and hence 
would be occupying a specific point in a house of the native in a 
specific period; The speed of each planet being different the plan- 
etary positions are ever-changing and a particular distribution in 
all probability would not repeat even after thousand and thousands 
of years. The slowest Planet - Saturn takes about 2 1/2 years to 
cross a sign and during this period it would be influencing the vari- 
ous houses of a native by virtue ofits transitory position. similarly 
every planet would be influencing the different houses ofa native 
through their transit. Therefore when the period wise analysis is 
done, the 'Gochara' or the transit based influence also must be con- 
sidered. (This we will study later). 


Having obtained the sequence of 'Dasa', 'Bhukthis' and 
‘Chhidras’ and the duration of each, we must now look into some 
general matters concerned with the horoscope. Though most of these 
points which are given below havebeen already discussed and listed 
it is worth repeating. 

EXERCISES: 1. Lookout for the planets, which are in 
Moolakshethras, exaltation signs, own signs, in the eleventh house, in 
quadrants, in trines and in friendly signs. Such planets including 
Lagnaadhipathi (lord of Ascendant) are likely to give beneficial re- 
sults in their periods and sub-periods. 

2, Planets, even if, they are natural malefic when favourably pos- 
ited would give only beneficial results. 


90 A Course in Indian Astrology 

3. Natural Genetics which are lords of quadrants usually turn out 
only evil results in their periods. 

4. Planets which are weak-say by occupation of debilitation signs 
or of inimical signs etc. generally would not give beneficial results. 

§. Planets unfavourably posited may not give beneficial results (i.e.. 
positions in S, S, 12). 

6. Ifa planet is favourable good results would be obtained in their 
Dasas and in the Bhukthis of their friends. The converse also is appli- 
cable. 

7. It should be decided whether each planet is a benefic ot a malefic 
to the native. 

8. The Bhukthis of planets occupying positions like 6, 3 and 12 
with respect to the Dasa-lord in the birth chart would be malefic. 

9. The Dasa-lord gives the results of the house(s) which he governs. 

10. The results are given by the Dasa-lord through the house (Bhava) 
he occupies. 

11. The results of the house would be modified according to the 
Dasa-lord aspecting the house (or houses) and also according to other 
planets aspecting the Dasa-lord. 

12. When the favourable Dasa-lord transits unfavourable positions 
during the Dasa, evil effects would outweigh the good. 

Regarding the Dasa-lord and the Bhukthi lord we have to consider 
the following points. 

a). Are the Dasa-lord and Bhukthi lord beneflcs or malefics ? 

b). Are they occupying favourable or unfavourable positions / 

c). Are they lords ofbenefic positions or malefic positions ? 

d). Do they occupy benefic signs or malefic signs ? 

e). Are they strong or weak ? 

f). How are they related to each other ? Is it beneficial or harmful ? 

g). What aspects fall on them and what all houses do they aspect ? 

h). In the transit how are they situated during the interval in ques- 
tion ? Is it favourable or unfavourable ? 


UNIT 23 


Before we begin to actually analyse a horoscope it is neces- 
sary to know a few more general principles. Memorising principles 
in large numbers would be boring, but you need not try to study 
these principles by heart. All these principles would automatically 
come to your mind, when you begin to analyse a horoscope. How- 
ever, read through these clues frequently, it would be a great help. 
(Those who know Sanskrit can refer to the relevant chapters in 
Texts - Phala Deepika, Parasara Hora, Jataka Parijatha.etc). 

1. In a Dasa, if the lord is a natural benefic and otherwise 
favourable to the native, when it has the lordship of quadrants, its 
peridrants, its period would be neither beneficial nor troublesome, 


A Course in Indian Astrology 91 
except in the case of special conjunctions (Yogaas), 
(Kendraadhipathya of Subhagrahaas). 

2. The periods of evil planets with lordship of quadrants would 
be generally beneficial (Kaendraadhipathya of Papaas) 

3. The periods of trine lords would be generally beneficial even 
if the lords are malefic by nature. (Thrikoanaadhipathya). 

4. The lords ofthe houses 3, 6, 8, 11 generally givebad results 
in their periods and sub-periods. 

5. A benefic planet, when it is the lord of the 8th house, if it 
happens to be in favourable relations with a beneficial Dasa Lord, 
its effect would be beneficial. 

6. The Bhukthi of a benefic planet, even if it is the 12th house 
lord would be highly beneficial, if the two planets are not unfavour- 
ably posited in the houses. 

8. The lords of second and seventh houses are Maarakas (death 
inflicting) and during their Bhukthi even if life would be safe (Be- 
cause of other compensating relations and aspects), there would be 
many malefic effects, 

9. The Bhukthis of evil planets in the Dasa of lords of houses 
2 and 7 would be very difficult periods for the native. 

10. The Bhukthis of beneficial planets in the Dasa of lords of 
2 and 7 also would be difficult. 

11. During the Bhukthi of evil Planéts in the Dasas of lords of 
2 and 7 there is possibility of death. 

12. Venus and Saturn, during the Bhukthi of one in the Dasa 
of the other, are found to give the effect of their own Dasa. 

13. During a Dasa, the influence of the Bhukthi lord would 
usually be more pronouncing. 

14. Ifin the horoscope, the trines with respect to a planet are 
occupied by evil planets during the Dasa of theplanet there is pos- 
sibility of loss of wealth, children etc. 

15. If the positions 6, 8 and 12 with respect to a planet are 
occupied by planets in debilitation the dasa of that planet would be 
marked trouble on account of diseases, enemies and thieves, their 
Dasa would be full of borrowing, diseases, quarrels, imprisonment 
and even unexpected deaths. 

16. If the debilitated planets are also in conjunction with evil. 

17. When a planet has inits 12th house evil planets, its result 
is malefic. 

18. The periods of lords of 6, 8 and 12 would be full of hard- 
ships. 

19. If both the Dasa-lord and the Bhukthi lord are strong as 


92 A Course in Indian Astrology 
well as benefic their Dasa and Bhukthi would be beneficial. When 
both are weak and also are evil effect would be malefic. When one is 
strong and the other is weak the effect would be mixed. 

20. The Bhukti of a planet posited in the seventh house or an 
inimical house, would show only average effects. 

21. The Bhukthi of a planet posited in the sixth house with 
respect to the Dasa lord or ifit is in debditation would be only aver- 
age 

22. The periods of planets in exaltation, in own signs, in Moo- 
lakshethras and friendly sign will be beneficial. 

23. When Jupiter is strong or if it occupies positions 1, 10 or 
11 its Dasa would be highly beneficial. 

24. In all the above, the beneficial or evil effects ofaDasa and 
Bhukthi ford should be judged with respect to each house sepa 
rately. For instance, a period may be promising increased. wealth, 
but it may be highly evil for one's father. 


Analysis of Horoscopes 


1,Lagnavisleshanam 


First House - House Signification. 


UNIT: 24- 


Now, we shall learn about the actual analysis of horoscopes 
with reference to model horoscopes in which we will apply the princi- 
ples and rules listed in the former lessons It is advisable to read 
the previous lessons once or twice before starting analysing a horo- 
scope. 


AcCourse in IndianAstrology 93 
A model horoscope is given below. 


“ ep Wen 


House Significators: (Bhavakaarakas) 


Before we begin the analysis, one more point is to be discussed, 
about the general significators of each house. (Bhaavakaaraka). Sig- 
nification means the causing of the experience by the planet and 
significator means the planet which gives the particular experience 
to the native. Though each planet is the significator of several things 
and each house signifies several matters and consequently it may 
seem that there will be several matters signified by each house, an 
overall significator is fixed for each house. The significators of the 
successive houses are 1. Sun, 2. Jupiter, 3. Mars, 4.Moon and Mer- 
cury, 9.Jdupiter, 6. Saturn and Mars, 7. Venus, 8. Saturn, 9.Sun, 
Mercury and Jupiter, 10 .Jupiter, Sun, Mercury and Saturn, 
11. Jupiter, 12. Saturn. 

Through the general significators are as above, when a 
particular matter is under consideration the corresponding 
significators also must be taken account of. 


House-Sign-Planet relation: 


In a horoscope we must see all the relations between houses, 
signs and planets. The horoscope is a representation of all these 
relations. An Astrologer must pick out all these. At the outset we 
have to identify the Lagna and other houses, thenidentify the plan- 
ets occupying and aspecting the different houses. So in the. model 
horoscope given above the Lagna falls in the sign Kumbha which is 
to be considered the first house. The second house Meena, the third 
house is Maesha with Mars occupying it; the fourth house in 
Vrishabha, the fifth house is Mithuna with moon positioned in it, 


94 A Course in Indian Astrology 
the sixth house Kataka with Rahu init and so on till the twelfth 
house is reached. This should be kept in mind in any horoscope. As 
soon aS you think about any specific matter about any native, the 
corresponding house with the positions of all planets relative to it 
should come to the memory. 


The lords of houses: (Bhaavaadhipathi) 


It should be stressed that one should not confuse the lords of 
houses Bhaavaadhipathi with the significators of houses (Bhava- 
kaaraka). The two are different. For each house there is a significa- 
tor or significators. (Kaaraka), For instance the significator of the 
first house is Sun. In all horoscopes itis Sun. But the lords (Adhipa- 
thya) of each house would be different in each horoscope since the 
sign in which a house falls would depend upon the ascendant sign. 

The next step in the analysis after grasping the houses and 
their occupants is to identify the lords of each house and the house 
and sign in which each of them is posited. 

In our horoscope the lord of Lagna is Saturn, (because it falls 
in Kumbha) and is occupying the ninth house in Thula (Friend's 
house) owned by Venus who is a natural friend of Saturn. Saturn 
has also the lordship of the 12th house (Makara). It is also useful to 
recall the planets occupying each of these houses. Similarly the sec- 
ond house lord is Jupiter occupying the 11th house in its own sign 
(Dhanus). The lord of the third house (Maesha) is Mars and is occu- 
pying the third house (Maesha) his own house. Mars is also the lord 
ofthe tenth house, (Vrischika) Similarly proceed around the whole 
horoscope. 


Significators of Houses 


The third step in the examination of horoscopes is to identify 
the positions of the significators in each house and the houses of 
which they have lordships. 

Thus, in the above horoscope the significator ofthefirst house 
(the sun) has the lordship of theseventh house and is posited in the 
12th house. Jupiter the significator of 2nd house has the lordship of 
the second and eleventh houses and is occupying the eleventh house 
which is its own sign. The significator of thethird house, Mars has 
the lordships of houses 3 and 10 and is occupying its own sign in the 
third house. The significators of the fourth house are Moon and 
Mercury. Moon has the lordship of the sixth house and is posited in 
the fifth house. Mercury which is the lord of the fifth and eighth 
houses is occupying the twelfth house. Similarly identify the posi- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 95 
tions and lordships ofall the significators 


Beneflcs and malefics: 


The fourth step is to identify the benefic and malefic for the 
native by virtue of thelordships. According to a general rule lord of 
the Lagna, lords of trines and natural malefics, which are lords of 
quadrants would be benefic to the native. The lord ofninth house is 
more auspiciousthan the lord of the fifth, Similarly the lord ofthe 
tenth house among the quadrants is most auspicious quadrant lord. 

In the same way the lords of houses 3, 6, 8, 11, 12 and the 
natural benefic which are lords ofhouses 4, 7, IO become malefic to 
the native. 

In the present case (and for all natives with Kumbha as the 
ascendent sign, Venus (lord of 9th) Sun and Mars (natural malefic 
with lordship of 7 and 10) are beneflcs. However, in the case of 
Mars as lord of third there is maleficity. Moon is a malefic as-the 
lord of the sixth house, and Jupiter, the most auspicious planet 
loses its auspiciousness by its lordship of theeleventh house.. 

These are the preliminary identifications which must be 
worked out before we proceed further with a horoscope: i) identifi- 
cation ofhouses ii) lordships iti) significator’sbouses iv) benefic and 
malefic and their positions. 

On this basis let us now get ready for the judgement of the 
horoscope given above Each experience or aspect ofa native is to 
be judged form one of the 12 houses. So let us familiarise ourselves 
with the judgement ofthe horoscope in question, house after house. 
Let us take the first house to start with. 

The matters which are to be judged from the first house have 
been listed in the unit dealing with the signification ofhouses. Ac- 
cording to a Sloka from the well known treatise ‘Prasna Marg.' the 
significations of the first house (usually called the Lagna) are indi- 
cated as follows: (This is Sanskrit) 

Dachasya soushtavam  swaasthyam 

Sthhithih  sraeyo Yasassukham 

Jayo vapuscha thathsarvam 

Chintaneeyam hi __ lagnathah. 

(The good structure of the body, its health and its state, pros- 
perity, comfort, success, physique these are all to be judged from 
the first house). 

Thus if you have to judge the general nature ofthe body and 
also the spirit we have to concentrate on the first house Let us look 
into the first house ofour model horoscope. 


96 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Let us use the various steps described above. 

A.In our horoscope the first house (Lagna) falls in the sign 
Kumbha. The lord of Lagna Saturn is posited in the ninth house 
also. It is a trine (9th) and it is also the sign of Venus which is 
friendly to Saturn. The first house is not aspected by any planet. 
The lord of the first house is also the lord of the twelfth house. 
Being Kumbha-Lagna, Venus, Sun and Mars are benefic while 
Jupiter and Moon are malefic. Mercury is neutral. 

B. Next Let us consolidate the information about the signifi- 
cator of the first house -The Sun. Which house does the Sun oc- 
cupy? Twelfth house. Sun has the lordship of the seventh house. 
The occupation sign of the sun being the 12th form the first house it 
is an unfavourable position as far as the first house is concerned. 
But Sun being a neutral malefic the lordship of the seventh house 
(quadrant) makes it a benefic. Sun is in conjunction with Mercury, 
Venus and Kethu and of these mercury has the lordship ofa trine 
but also that of the 8th house and Venus has lordship ofa quadrant 
and a trine (9th). 


We shall now, with the aid of therules we have learned, as- 
sess the first house, its lord and its significator, The first house is 
Makara and is not occupied by any malefic. It receives however no 
benefic aspects. Also no planet occupies the house. Its lord, Saturn 
is occupying a favourable position with respect to the house [9th 
and trine] and is in exaltation. It is not in conjunction with any 
benefic or malefic planet. It is occupying the friendly sign. It is 
aspected by Mars which is strong (occupying Moolakshethra). How- 
ever it has the lordships of the third house as well as the 10th house 
of which the former one makes it a malefic while the latter makes 
it beneficial. Again Mars is a natural enemy of Saturn. So alto- 
gether the aspect of Mars is not quite desirable for Satum. In spite 
of this the effects of the-first house would be generally beneficial for 
the native (of this horoscope). 


The significator of the first house is Sun who is a benefic as it 
has the lordship of the seventh house (natural malefic with lord- 
ship or quadrants become benefic). But it is occupying an unfavour- 
able position with respect to the first house (12th), moreover this 
occupation sign is an enemy's sign in which the Sun is in conjunc- 
tion with another enemy (Venus), a malefic (Kethu) and the eighth 
lord (Mercury). Mercury is malefic on account of the conjunction 
and aspect (Rahu) of malefic, though it has the lordship of the fifth 
house (a trine). So the significator of the first house is not quite 
favourable. This is a weakness for the first house. But, since the 


A Course in Indian Astrology 97 
lord of Lagna is very strong and is posited in the ninth house (the 
house of fortune) the native should be fortunate upholding Dharma, 
devoted, eloquent as a speaker, must be getting hereditary wealth 
and so on. To consolidate, though not outstanding, the native's first 
house is generally good. 

EXERCISES: 

To learn more about judging the first house analyse the following 
horoscopes also (for convenience draw the charts and enter the plan- 
etary position). 

a) Ascendant in Vrishabha, Saturn in the second house, Mars and 
Kethu in the sixth, Venus in the eighth, Sun Mercury and Jupiter in 
the tenth and Moon with Rahu in the twelfth house. (Note that the 
lord of Ascendant-Venus a natural beneficis posited in the eighth, and 
the aspect of Mars falls on the Ascendant. The Ascendant is flanked by 
malefics in the second and twelfth houses). 

b) Ascendant in Thula with Jupiter, Rahu in second, Mercury in 
fourth Sun and Venus in the fifth, Moon in the seventh, Mars with 
Kethu in the eighth and Saturn in the twelfth. 

c) Ascendant in Kumbha, Rahu in the second, Moon with Saturn in 
the fourth, Sun in the sixth, Mars with Mercury and Venus in the 
seventh Kethu in the eighth and Jupiter in the tenth houses. 


Judgement of the second house in the model 


horoscope Unit 25 


The second house indicates wealth, speech, material prosper- 
ity, family, learning of differentkinds, right eye, all those governed 
by the native etc. So if someone approaches you to know about any 
of these matters you would consider the second house of his horo- 
scope, the lord of the second house, the planets posited in the sec- 
ond house, the position of the lord of the second house and the lord 
of that sign, the significator of the second house and the like. The 
significations of the second house are consolidated in the sloka. 

BharthavyamAkhilam Vitham. 

Vaanee chakshuscha Dakshinam 

Vidyascha vividhaa hyaethath 

Sarvam chinthyam Dvitheeyathah (Prasnamarga). 

Exercise: Now look into the mode) horoscope and find out the an- 

swers to these questions: 

1. Which sign corresponds to the second house ? 

2. Who is the lord of the second house / 

3. Which sign and house does the lord occupy ? 

4. Is that sign the own house, Maolakshetra or inimical sign of the 

lord of second house ? 

5. What are the aspects falling on the second house ? Are these of 

friends or of enemies ? 
* 6. Is the lord of the second in conjunction with any planet ? 


98 A Course in Indian Astrology 

7. Does the lord of the second receive any aspect ? 

(Ans: 1. Meena, 2.Jupiter, 3.Dhanus, eleventh house, 4.0wn house 

Moolakshethra, 5. No aspects, 6.None, 7.Saturn aspects, Jupiter) 

Regarding the significator of the second house, as said earlier 
though the general significator of the second house is Jupiter, for 
each separate matter connected with the 2nd house to be judged 
we must assess the corresponding individual significator Thus if it 
is wealth. Jupiter must be taken as significator, while for matters 
of speech, Mercury is to be considered as the significator. In the 
horoscope, if we consider the wealth, we can find that the significa- 
tor is Jupiter. It is posited inits own sign Dhanus whichis its Moo- 
lakshethra as well. Also the lord of the second house is also the 
significator of wealth and is in the eleventh house (the house of 
income). Jupiter is being aspected by the lord of the fifth house 
(trine), Moon and also by the lord the Ascendant. (Moon is the lord 
of the fifth house with respect to the second house of thenative). So 
since Moon has the signification of mother, in view of the above 
facts itis obvious that the native would have wealth through mother 
or through someone having the status of mother or through mat- 
ters signified by Moon (ex. Textile, Business, Shipping etc.). How- 
ever, even though the native would have plenty of wealth, the as- 
pect of Saturn posited in the unfavourable eighth house (from the 
second house) may bring about some delay or hindrances. Further 
since Saturn is also the lord of the 12 house of the native it is possi- 
ble that there would be a lot of expenses also. The wealth might be 
obtained by the native in the period or subperiod of Jupiter and 
Moon. 


The second house signifies also learning and education of the 
native. Identify the significator of learning (vidya) that is Mercury, 
Next identify the houses governed by Mercury. (It is the lord of the 
6th and 8th houses, but with respect to the second house these are 
the 4th and the 7th house quadrants). How are the lord of the sec- 
ond house (Jupiter) and the significator (Mercury) related ? Mer- 
cury though is a natural enemy of Jupiter, from their relative posi- 
tions in the horoscope they are temporary friends. It may also be 
noted that Moon having the lordship of a trine (fifth) with respect 
to the second house, occupies the sign of the significator (Mithuna) 
and aspects the lord of the second house (Jupiter) posited in the 
10th from the second house. Also the significator (Mercury) occu- 
pies the eleventh house (with respect to the second house) along 
with the significator of higher education (Venus). 


In view of the above relations we can infer the following due 
to the position of the significator of mother (Moon) in the sign of the 


A Co urse in Indian Astrology 99 
significator of learning (Mercury) that the native would receive edu- 
cation through the mother. As Mercury is in conjunction with the 
significator of higher education (Venus) in the eleventh house (with 
respect to the second house) we may infer that the native would 
get higher education related to arts. Moreover since the lord of the 
house is connected with the tenth lord of thehouse, the native would 
take up a profession related to his higher education. The significa- 
tor of education (Mercury) is connected with the significator of gov- 
ernment (Sun) and thus the native would be using his higher edu- 
cation as professional means is some way connected with the Gov- 
ernment. 


Mercury is the significator of not only education (vidya) but 
also speech (Vaak) and since Mercury is in conjunction with Venus 
we may infer (just as we inferred higher education in arts) that the 
native's words would be sweet, artistic and with a feminine touch 
expanding into sensuousness Due to the relation of Mercury to the 
Sun the native acquires authority and leadership in words. 

In the assessment of thesecond house given above, we have 
come across certain statements such as, that the Saturn is in the 
eighth house to the second Gaturnis in the 9th of Ascendent) Jupiter 
in the tenth, Sun, Mercury, Venus and Kethu in the eleventh and 
in the twelfth house is Saturn. These might have caused a little bit 
of confusion the basis of which description is given below. 

This method of assessing each house with respect to a par- 
ticular house is known as ‘Bhavaath-bhavachintha' (house to house 
consideration). This means that each Bhava or house is to be as- 
sessed by considering that house as the first house and to assess 
the relations of the other houses and also planets on that basis. For 
example let us take the positions of Moon and Saturn in our model 
horoscope. When we think about the Ascendant (that is first house) 
we say that the lord of the sixth house (Moon) posited in the fifth 
house is aspecting the eleventh house and Jupiter occupying the 
11th house. 


But when we are assessing the second house we would say 
that the same Moon which is the lord of the fifth house (i.e. with 
respect to the second house) is posited in the fourth house and as- 
pects the tenth house (with respect to the second house). 

When we consider the first house, we say that Saturn with 
the lordship of the first and twelfth house is posited in the 9th house 
and aspects the 11thhouse occupant Jupiter. 

But while the second house is under consideration Saturn is 
the lord of the eleventh and the twelfth houses (with respect to the 


100 ACourse in Indian Astrology 
second) and it is occupying the eighth house from the second. 

This should not be considered as creating confusion. After 
handling a few horoscopes you would master this interesting tech- 
nique of Bhaavaath Bhava chinthan (Consideration from house to 
house). 

So once this is obvious from this sort of assessment. It will be 
dear that while a planet is favourable to a specific matter, it might 
be totally unfavourable to another. Therefore all planets would not 
be always favourable or always unfavourable to. Do we not hear the 
pathetic news that on the day of housewarming ceremony the own- 
er's child gets electrified and breathes its last ? Or the owner gets a 
transfer order on the same day. Similarly when a person gets a lot 
of unexpected income, his mother dies. When some persons get pro- 
motions they are forced the leave their houses wasting money and 
health in some far off hotels. Experiences in life are strange, and 
those who learn astrology with an ivestigative outlook in order to 
understand the reasons of the strange experiences are to be con- 
gratulated. 


The assessment of houses with respect to each house is com- 
plex and at the same time quite interesting also. Having assessed 
the second house of our model horoscope try the assessment in the 
two examples given below (Please draw the 'Rasi chakra' and enter 
the Lagna and planetary positions in it). 

Example 1: Ascendant in Maesha with Moon in it, Kethu in 
the third, Venus, in the Seventh, Mercury, Jupiter and Sun in the 
eighth, Raahu in the ninth, Mars in the tenth and Saturn in the 
eleventh. 

Example 2: Ascendant in Meena with Sun, Kethu in Second, 
Saturn in third, Jupiter in fourth Moon in seventh, Rahu in the 
eighth Venus in the eleventh and Mars with Mercury in the twelfth. 


UNIT 26 


Assessment ofthe Third House. 


Before we begin the assessment of the third house of our 
model horoscope, it is desirable to suggest to you to go through the 
relevant previous lessons dealing with the signification ofthe third 
house. 

Prasna Maarga may be quoted in this context: 

Dhairyam Veeryam cha Durbudhim 

Sahoadara - Paraakramow 

Daksha - karna- Sahaayow cha 

Chinthaneeyam  thrutheeyathah 


A Course in Indian Astrology 101 

(Boldness, being active, wickedness, co-borns, valour, right 
ear, help, all these are to be assessed from the third house). 

Now have a look at our model chart and collect the following 
informations: 

1. Which sign corresponds to the third house ? (Ans: Maesha) 

2. Which is the lord of thethird house ? Where is it posited ?. 
What type of sign is it ? Own house, friendly sign etc. (Ans: Mars, 
posited in Maesha, in its own house) 

3. Which is the significator of the third house ? How is it 
related to the third house lord ? (Ans Mars is the significator of the 
third house. In this case the significator happens to be the same as 
the lord of the house.) 

4. Whose aspects fall on the lord and significator of the house? 

(Ans: a). The aspect of Jupiter which is the lord of the second 
and eleventh house with respect to the ascendent. Aspect of Jupiter 
is beneficial and indicates divine favour. However it may be remem- 
bered that Jupiter is the 12th lord and 9th lord with respect to the 
house. b). The aspect of Saturn, the lord of Lagna and the 12th 
house). 

5. What are the planets occupying the house ? (Ans: Only 
Mars the lord and significator of the house) 

6. Are the lord and the significator ofthehouse strong ? (Ans: 
The lord and significator of the house Mars, is occupying the house 
itself and receives the aspects of Jupiter as well as the Ascendent- 
lord, both of which are beneficial. As such the lord and significator 
of the house is quite strong) 


Younger Brother 


The third house signifies the younger brothers and sisters. 
Considering the house, its lord and significator and the aspects on 
them it is easy to infer that the native would have younger broth- 
ers. Also they would be active and would possess longevity. They 
would be blessed with divine favour. 

It may be remembered that matters regarding the elder co- 
borns are to be judged from the eleventh house and not from the 
3rd house. In our horoscope the eleventh house happens to be in 
the sign Dhanus which jis a common sign. Therefore it may be in- 
ferred that the native would have two elder coborns. Further since 
the masculine planet Jupiter is posited in that sign and since the 
feminine planet Moon aspects that sign we may infer that one of 
the elder coborns would be a brother and the other a sister. 


102 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Neighbours 


The third house signifies the neighbours also. As the house 
receives the aspect of Jupiter the native must be having very good 
neighbours. 


Publishing & Book Writing 


We have also learned that the third house signifies publish- 
ing books and the printing machines. In our horoscope the lord of 
the third house has the lordships of the tenth (professional) house 
also. Moreover the house is aspected by Jupiter and Saturn, and is 
occupied by a strong Mars. Thus the native would have his profes- 
sion connected with printing and publishing and his income would 
be from that profession. Saturn's aspect would cause frequent hin- 
drances but due to Jupiter's aspect final success is ensured. 


The Time of Enjoying the Results 


It is also possible to predict the time when the native would 
enjoy the effects of the third house. He would enjoy the effects dur- 
ing the periods or sub-periods oftheplanets related to the house or 
the significators or when such planets get connected with the house 
during their transits (we will learn about these details later). Who 
will not respect such an Astrologer who can predict with such pre- 
cision; exactness and accuracy with respect to the effects and also 
the exact period ? You are gradually rising to that high status. 

Let us consider one more example to assess the third house. 
(Please draw a Rasichakra and fill in the details and start assess- 
ing). 

Example: Ascendant in Dhanus with Mars and Venus, Sun 
in the second, Mercury and Rahu in the third, Jupiter and Moon in 
the eighth Kethu in the ninth and Saturn in the eleventh. 

In this horoscope with Ascendant in Dhanus the lord of the 
Ascendant, Jupiter is posited in the eighth house in conjunction 
with Moon. Also the Marsand Venus are posited in the eighth house 
in conjunction with Moon. Also the Mars and Venus are posited in 
the first house and are aspected by Saturn from the eleventh house. 
So the first house is connected with Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Saturn 
apart from the significator of the house-Sim, posited in the second. 

The third house is in Kumbha which is an immovable sign 
(Sthira Rasi). Mercury the lord of the seventh and tenth houses is 
posited in the third house along with Rahu. There is no malefic 
aspect on the house, but for that of Kethu. The lord of the house 


ACourse in Indian Astrology 103 
Saturn is in exaltation in Thula in the eleventh house. Saturn is 
neither aspected nor cannoned by any planet. Mars the significator 
of the third house (younger co-borns) is posited in the first house 
along with the lord of the seventh house which signifies elder co- 
borns and Saturn the lord of 3rd house aspects Mars and Venus 
from the 11th house. 

Note the relations between the lord of ascendant (Jupiter) 
the lord of the second house which is also called the house of wealth 
(Saturn) and the lord of theco-borns, i.e. of thethird house (Saturn). 
The lord of wealth and co-borns, Saturn aspects the first house (as- 
pects in the third) as well as the lord of the first house Jupiter 
(aspect in the 10th) moreover the lord of the co-borns (Saturn) is 
posited in the house representing the elder coborns (11th) and its 
aspects falls on the lord of the elder coborns (Venus). 

From this it easy tojudge that the native has very good rela- 
tions with his brothers and sisters and that they co-operate with 
one another in financial dealings also. It may also be inferred that 
the financial status of the native gets improvement with the help of 
his co-borns, Also since the lord of ascendant is in exaltations (in 
the sign Kataka) his behaviour towards the co-borns would be de- 
cent and affectionate. Due to the position of Rahuin the third house 
Guspite of the fact that Kumbha is a sign of strength for Rahu) the 
native would have some occasions to be in disagreement with his* 
borns. especially during Rabu’s period. Since the significator of 
coborns (Mars) is aspected by the lord of the house of co-borns 
(Saturn) we can infer that the co-borns of thenative have good sta- 
tus in life. 


104 ee ee A Course in Indian Astrology 


UNIT 27 


Assessment of the Fourth House (Bhava) 


e Now let us pass on to the Assessment of the fourth house. Go 
through the model horoscope concentrating your attention on the 
fourth house and its relations. 

This is a very important house and it signifies matters re- 
garding mother, well wishers, maternal uncles, nephews (sister's 
sons) and nieces, land, comfort, vehicle, furniture used for being 
seated, cot and other bed conveniences, progress and prosperity, 
cattle, the house in which one is born etc. The sloka from Prasna 
Marga. concerning the significatons of the fourth house is quoted 
below: 

Matha Suhrun-Maathula Bhaaginaeyow 

Kshaetram Sukham Vaahanam-Aasanancha 

Laalityam-Ambhah Sayannam — cha _ vrudhih 

Pasvaadika Janmagruham  chathurthaath. 

If the fourth house is weak it would result in a dearth of gener- 
al comfort, and difficulties or suffering for the mother, dispute about 
property, leaving the house etc. will be experienced. 

Though the lord of the above 'Bhavas' (4th is the same, the 
significator planets are different This must be taken care of while 
making predictions. In this horoscope the 4th lord is Venus. But 
the significator of mother is Moon, of uncle and nephew is Mercury, 
Friend, Seat, Bed, Vehicle etc. is Venus, and significator of land is 
Mars. 


Mother: 


At the outset let us consider about the mother, one among 
the items denoted by the 4th house. The horoscope is given below 
(please prepare the chart for convenience). 

Ascendant Kumbha-Mars in Mesha, Moon in Mithuna; Rahu 
in Kataka; Saturn in Thula; Jupiter in Dhanus; Sun Mercury, Venus 
and Kethu are in Makara. 

4th house is Vrisha. Bhava lord Venus, posited in 9th. Rahu 
aspects. Venus occupies the friend's (Saturn) house. Union with 
the enemy Sun. Moon, the significator of mother is posited in the 
5th house from Ascendant aspected by Jupiter From the above plan- 
etary positions the following matters about the mother of the na- 
tive can be predicted. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 105 

Since Bhava has strength the native will enjoy the benefits of 
the Bhava. Mother will be financially sound. Since Moon, the sig- 
nificator of mother aspects Jupiter who is the significator of wealth 
and wellbeing the native will gat wealth and happiness from moth- 
er's side (In this horoscope though the Venus occupies the 12thhouse, 
it is not bad because for Venus alone the position in 12th is consid- 
ered beneficial). Since Saturn occupies the 6th house from the 4th 
house (Mother) it can be said that in the period and sub periods of 
Sani the mother will suffer from Rheumatic ailments. 


Friend 


Now we will study the method of analysis of friendship an- 
other aspect of fourth house. 

The significator of friendship is Venus here the lord of 4th, 
house. He occupies the 9th house from the 4th house which is a 
trine and hence strong. But Mercury the lord of 8th is associated 
with Venus. This indicates that some of the friends will be trouble 
makers. Budha who is the significator of uncle is the lord of the 8th 
and is posited in 12th. This indicates that the native will have 
strained relations with uncle. 

The significator of landed property Mars occupies the 12th 
from the 4th house and this position indicates that the native will 
have to spend money for litigation on landed property. 


House: 


It is to be noted that the significator of the house Venus is 
occupying the 12th from ascendant which position is favourable for 
Venus. It is the friend's house and the occupant Mercury also is a 
friend of Venus. Mercury is the lord of second house from 4th house 
So itis to be predicted that the native will build a house and he will 
not face any financial difficulty and further the built up house will 
be far away from his native place. The Sun significator of Father 
and Government is badly posited there which indicates that the 
father and government will discourage or oppose the construction 
of the house. The native will build the house in the Saturn sub- 
period in Venus period or Venus sub-period in Saturn period. 


Education: 


In the following horoscope let us study about the education of 
the native. 

Ascendent-Vrisha; Saturn in Mithuna; Mars and Kethu in 
Thula; Venus in Dhanus; Sun, Mercury and Jupiter in Kumbha; 


106 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Moon and Rahu in Mesha. 

First, the Bhava is to be analysed 

1. Which Rasiis Fourth Bhava 2. Which planet occupies the 
4th Bhava, 3 Which planets aspect the 4th Bhava, 4. What are the 
lordships of the aspecting planets, 

(Ans: 1. Simha; 2. no occupation; 3. Saturn's, Mercury's. Jupi- 
ter's; 4. Saturn the lord of 4 & 10, Sun the lord of 4th, Mercury the 
lord of 2 & 5, Jupiter the lord of 8 & 11.) 

Secondly the lord of the Bhava is to be analysed, Here the 
lord of 4th Bhava is Sun. He is posited in 10th and associated with 
Mercury the lord of 2 & 5 and Jupiter the lord of 8 & 11. Sun as- 
pects his own house. 

The significator of the Bhava. Jupiter, the significator of the 
4th Bhava, education, aspects the Bhava. But since the Jupiter has 
the lordship of 8 & 11 he may not confer the full effect. 

Since the Bhava lord and Bhava significator are strong the 
native will get good education. Mercury and Venus who are the 
significators of Astrology also are aspecting the 4th Bhava. So the 
native will get education in Astrology also. Since the significators 
are posited in 10th house the house of profession, the native will 
take Astrology as his profession. 

In this way by analysing all aspects one can gain proficiency 
*in prediction and reading of horoscopes. 

Vehicle: Now let us study anotheraspect of 4th Bhava namely 
vehicle, 

The vehicle is to be assessed from the fourth Bhava and the 
lord of the fourth house. The significator of vehicle is Venus. 

Some combinations responsible for the possession of vehicle 
are 

1. The lord of the fourth house posited in conjunction with 
the lord of the ninth in the first house or the seventh house. 

2. the lord of the fourth house joining the Moon. 

3. Venus as the lord of the fourth house (possible only for 
‘Kumbha and Kataka as the Ascendant sign) being posited in the 
11th, 10th or 9th house. 

Thus assessment of vehicles must be based on the fourth 
house representing vehicles the significator of vehicle (Venus), the 
lord of the fourth house and its significator. 

Bicycle, scooter, motorcar and lorry are all vehicles, For a 
shrewd Astrologer it would be possible to predict the king of vehicle 
the native would possess. May you also attain that ability. 

As an example consider the horoscope given below: Ascend- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 107 
ant is Dhanus, Sun with Mercury in the third, Venus in fourth, 
(exaltation) Mars and Kethu inhe sixth, Saturnin the tenth, Jupiter 
in the eleventh and Moon with Rahu in the twelfth (Draw the chart) 
. In this chart the fourth lord Jupiter is posited in the eleventh 
(income house). Venus is exalted in the fourth house-Meena. 

The gain of vehicle is to be judged from the houses 4 (Vehicle) 
9 and 10 (worldly comforts and pleasures and 11 realisation of wishes 
and gain). Venus (significator) Moon (lord of the fourth house in 
this and Jupiter (lord of the 9th in the zodiac also the lord of 12 
expenses) are important planets. Saturnalso is a chief planet in the 
matter of vehicles. 

By a skilful correlation of the houses and the planets con- 
cerned with vehicles one can predict the gain of vehicle, accidents 
with vehicles expenses on account of vehicles (These items can be 
learnt as later lessons. If taught more you will feel confused and 
overloaded). 


Unit 28 
The Fifth House 


What all things are we to assess from the fifth house ? It is 
desirable that you go through the previous relevant lessons, before 
we begin to assess the fifth house of the model horoscope. 

This is very important house a trine (Trikona) and it signifies 
such important matters as children, intelligence, wisdom, common 
sense, good deeds of the past, poorva punya and good nature of the 
mind. Prasna Marga. consolidates the indications of the fifth house 
(also called poorvapunya house and house of children, Santhaana 
Bhava) thus: 

Pragnaa-Maedhaa-Prathibhea 

Vivuekasakthiipuraathanam punyam 

Manthraamaathya = Thanoojah 

Panchamabhaath Soumanasyamapi — chinthyam. 

(Intelligence, ability to know the right thing at the right time, 
grasping power with ability to identify good and bad, good deeds of 
the past birth, capacity to give advice, ministers, sons and daugh- 
ters having a good mind-all these are to be judged from the fifth 
. house). 

Paraasara describes the fifth house as: 

“Yanthram Manthram Thathaa vidyaam 

Buddhaeschiva prabadhakam 

Puthraraajyaaapabhramsadeen 

Pasyaeth puthraalayaad  Budhah. 


108 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Now let us analyse the fifth house of our model horoscope by 
assessing the house, its lord, the significators of the matters indi- 
cated by the house, and aspects on the house, its lord and on the 
significator, the lord of the occupation sign of the fifth lord etc. and 
the relations to the lord of ascendent (It is essential that we should 
not confuse between the lordship of house, signification of a house 
and occupation of ahouse. Sometimes it may happen that the lord 
and significator be the same planet), 


In the model horoscope the fifth house is in the sign Mithuna 
(Gemini) symbolised by a couple holding a club and a Veena. It is a 
common sign. The lord ofthehouse is Mercury which is in the twelfth 
house. Mercury has also the lordship of the 8th house. Fifth house 
is occupied by the feminine planet Moon and aspected by Jupiter 
from the eleventh house (own sign). Jupiter is a masculine planet 
and has the lordship of the second house (family) also. Jupiter is 
also the significator of Santhaana (offspring). From this much in- 
formation, We are sure that you are able to see that the native 
would have both male and female children. However the lord of the 
house (Mercury) rules the unfavourable eighth and occupies the 
twelfth sign along with malefic and benefic. As such there would be 
both gains as well as expenses and hardships on account of chil- 
dren. Moon posited in the fifth, is the lord of sixth house which also 
indicates troubles caused by children may be through a daughter 
because Moon is feminine. The financial status of thenative's chil- 
dren may be assessed from the second house of the fifth house. The 
lord of that house (Kataka) Moon is being aspected by Jupiter from 
the Moolakshethra. This shows financial prosperity ofthechildren. 
Children's education is assessed from the fourth house from the 
fifth house (i.e. eighth from Lagna). The lord of this house (Mer- 
cury) is posited in the eight with respect to the fifth house, educa- 
tion of children would be having hindrances. 


Through the fifth house one can judge intelligence and gen- 
eral mental attitude also of the native. For this we have to take 
into account the nature and strength of thefifth house, benefic as- 
pects on it and its relations with the significator (Moon) and the 
lord. The significator is posited in the house itself and receives the 
divine aspect of Jupiter But the lord of thehouse is posited in the 
eight with respect to the house, along with both benefic and ma- 
lefic. Moreover the fifth house is a common sign. Thus the native 
would have a wavering mind and would find it difficult to take a 
definite decision on any matter. 


The fifth house indicates the good deeds of the native in previ- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 109 
ous birth (Poorva Punya). Jupiter the significator of good deeds and 
the most benefic among planets is aspecting the fifth house from 
its sign which is the Moolakshethra also. Jupiter being the incarna- 
tion of the almighty it must be said that the native has good deeds 
in previous births. 

The fifth house may be viewed in several ways. It is the sec- 
ond house ofthe fourth house (mother) and so represents the wealth 
and other possessions of mother. Similarly it is the eleventh of the 
seventh house (wife). Thus it gives indications of income through 
ones better half, business etc. The fifth house may also be treated 
as the tenth house from the ninth (father, fortune, higher educa- 
tion). Viewing the fifth house as the second (wealth) from the fourth 
(mother), since the significator of mother (Moon) occupying the fifth 
house, is being aspected by the significator of wealth and prosper- 
ity (Jupiter) from a strong position, the native's mother must be 
Well to do and the native would enjoy his mother's prosperity. 


(Collect a few horoscopes of persons familiar to you, and try 
your assessment ofthe various houses. But remember, that we have 
to discuss a number of other things before we are able to make 
exact predictions). So do not make predictions particularly of bad 
and unpalatable experience abruptly by basing your conclusions on 
one aspect alone. 


The Sixth House 


Try to recall the indications from the sixth house, which is 
commonly spoken as the house of enmity and house of diseases. 

Prasna Marga. describes the signification of this house as: 

Thaskaraaraathi Vighnaadhi 

Vyaadhayascha —= Thanu-Kshathih 

Maranam vaadrisasthraena 

Chinthaneeyam hi shashttathah. 

(Thieves, enemies, obstacles, mental pains, diseases, Harm of 
death to the body by enemy's arms and the like are to be judged 
from the sixth house). 

Paraasara gives inhis ‘Brihatparaasara Hoarasasthram' the 
following verses about the sixth house, which he calls 'Sathrus- 
thaana' or the house of enemies: 


Maathulam mruthyusanghancha 
Sasthroomschaiva Vranaadikam 
Sapathneemaathraram chaapi 


Sathrusthaanannireekshayaeth. 
(Maternal uncle death, enemy, wounds, stepmother etc. are 


110 A Course in Indian Astrology 
signified by the house of enemy, that is the sixth house. "Sa- 
pathneemaatha" means father's second wife, other than one's 
mother. But the sixth house being the third to the fourth, the house 
may be considered to indicate mother's sisters also). 

Now let us look into the model horoscope. Which is the sign 
corresponding to the 6th house Kataka and it receives the aspects 
of Sun, Mercury, Venus and Kethu (full aspects) and also the spe- 
cial full aspects of Mars (fourth) and of Saturn (tenth). The house is 
occupied by the malefic Raahu. 

The lord of the house is Moon which is occupying the fifth 
from the ascendant, but it is posited in the twelfth house with re- 
spect to the sixth house. This is a weakness to the house. (Lord in 
and unfavourable position). Moon is aspected by Jupiter strongly. 
Jupiter's aspect is highly beneficial normally but in this horoscope 
Jupiter is the lord of the second and eleventh houses (Lords of 3, 6, 
11 are generally malefic and the lord of 2 and 7 may inflict death in 
their period or sub periods and hence are described as Killers or 
Maarakas). Actually auspicious Jupiter is so powerful as to ward 
off all adversitias in the chart. 


"Nissaesha doashaharanae subhavardhanaeycha 

Veeryam  Guroarakhilamastyakhilagrahaebyah” 

So one has to be careful to decide whether each planet is a 
benefic or a malefic for each horoscope. 

Regarding the significators of the sixth nouse, both Mars and 
Saturn are the general significators both normally highly malefic. 
But in this horoscope Mars is the lord of 3rd and 10th house and 
occupies his own house in the 3rd house. Mars by virtue of its lord- 
ship of the 3rd becomes malefic but is occupying a favourable posi- 
tion with respect to the ascendant. Mars is also very strong, being 
in the Moolakshethra (Mesha). Being the significator of the sixth 
house the aspect of Mars on the sixth house is not in any way 
unfavourable, especially from a strong position. Moreover Mars is 
in a very favourable (10th) position with respect to the sixth house. 
Saturn is exalted in Thula and is the lord of the Ascendant. As such 
the aspect of Saturn is highly favourable for the sixth house. Alto- 
gether though the lord of the sixth house (Moon) is unfavourable to 
the house, in view of the fact that If is favourably posited with re- 
spect to the ascendant, it should be inferred that the sixth house 
indications areon the whole favourable to the native. Though there 
is the possibility of minor troubles due to thieves, enemies, obsta- 
cles and mental worries the native will be rescued from all these 
adversities. 


A Course in Indian Astrology lil 

Before you begin to learn this unit it is necessary that you 
should have learned thoroughly the previous units dealing with 
the analysis of thesix houses starting from the‘first. It is advisable 
that you read those lessons again. 


UNIT 29 


The Seventh House 


Now we move on to dive into the 7th house -a house of very 
great importance in the natal chart. Though it may be argued that 
each aspect of life has its own importance and supremacy. The 7th 
signifies a turning point in one's life- It is the house indicating chiefly 
one's partner in life. In our country we still attach supreme and 
even divine importance to this phase of life. 

Let us recall the indication that we obtain from the 7th house. 
Partner in life (wife\ husband), sexual pleasure, desire, sensuous 
pleasures, marriage, business, private parts and the like are to be 
judged from their house. Prasna Marga. describes the'signification 
of the seventh house as, 

Vivaaha - madanaaioaka 

Bhaaryaa - bharthrus - samaagama: 

Sayyaa- Sthree - Sadmanashtaarth 

Maidhunaanyapi Sapthamaath 

(Marriage, desire, vision, union of husband and wife, bed, 
wife's house, lost articles, sexual enjoyment - these are to be judged 
from the seventh house). 

In addition to these, one has to judge the seventh house from 
its relation to the other houses. Here one has to use a little inge- 
nuity. For instance since the seventh house is the second house of 
the sixth, itis reasonable that the seventh house signifies the wealth 
of enemy, income from hospital, borrowed wealth, stolen article, 
wealth obtained by cruel deeds and the like. In the same way many 
other matters can be judged from the 7th bouses. 

As we have done the analysis of the other houses of several 
horoscopes, the analysis of the seventh house also has to be done 
by considering the house, the lord and the significator. The signifi- 
cator of the seventh house is Venus. We have to analyse the planets 
aspecting the house and posited in the house, the planets in con- 
junction with and aspecting the lord of thehouse of Venus. 


Sun, Mer, Ven 
Ketu 


Ketu,Me 
Venus 


eee le 


Let us now analyse the seventh house of our model horoscope. 
Examine carefully the seventh house (Simha Rasi), its lord (Sun) 
and the significator ofthe seventh house (Venus). The seventh house 
is not occupied by any planet but it is aspected by Jupiter. Though 
Jupiter's aspects are generally good for any house, in this horo- 
scope (Kumbha Ascendant) Jupiter being the lord of theeleventh is 
a malefic. thus the seventh house is slightly afflicted. The lord of 
the seventh house (Sun) is posited in the twelfth house and is in 
conjunction with two enemies (Kethu, Venus) and with the 8th lord 
(Mercury). The malefic aspect of Raahu also falls on the Sun. Both 
with respect to the Ascendant and with respect to the house the 
Sun occupies an unfavourable position (12). The seventh house sig- 
nificator (Venus) is posited in the sixth from the seventh house and 
is aspected by the malefic Raahu. Venus has conjunction with Kethu 
(malefic), as well as with the friendly Mercury and the seventh house 
lord (Sun) Further, Venus posited in the twelfth house confers pros- 
perity and fame. It may be noted that the association of the lord of 
ninth (Venus) with the lordofa quadrant (Sun) is quite good for the 
seventh houge. Further the lord of the Lagna (Saturn) is posited in 
the ninth house owned by Venus and Venus is posited in the house 
owned but Saturn, Therefore Venus and Saturn are related by this 
mutual exchange of sign (this is called 'Parivarthana’' occupation in 
interchanged own house). 


When judging any matter one has to look into two aspects: a) 
whether the matter signified by the particular house would be con- 
ferred by the planets and b) whether the matter would be enjoyed 
by the native. The former factor is to be judged from the strength of 
the house, its lord and the significator. And the second factor 
(Anubhava-yoga), namely whether the native would experience the 
signification of the house is to be judged from the relation between 
that house (or lord or significator) and the first house (or lord or 


A Course in Indian Astrology 113 
significator). This is true with respect to each house. 

Thus regarding the seventh house matters of thenative, both 
the factors are there and so we may say that the native would be 
having a spouse and that he or she would be enjoying a married life 
(note the relation of the seventh house with the Ascendant). Again 
the existence of a married life is quite evident by the relation be- 
tween the second (family), seventh (partner) and eleventh (house of 
achievement and union); the second and eleventh are owned by 
Jupiter and this planet is aspecting the seventh house, from the 
eleventh house. Then the native would have gains ofwealth through 
marriage. Due to some malefic aspect on Venus and the seventh 
lord and also on account of the connection with the 8th and 12th 
house there would be some obstacles as well as disruption, but these 
would be smothered. In fact there is a lot more to be described about 
this horoscope, but we have to consider a few more important prin- 
ciples (like special combination called Yoagaas) before we plunge 
into the divining of the secrets of horoscopes. 

Now, let us consider another horoscope: (jgiven below 


Kanya Ascendant; Kethu and Saturnin the first house; Sun, 
Mercury and Venus in the third; Mars in the fourth; Jupiter in the 
sixth and Moon with Rahu inthe seventh. In this case, the seventh 
house is the sign Meena. The house is not aspected by any benefic 
and is aspected by several malefic - Kethu, Saturn and Mars, Also 
we find that the seventh house is occupied by a malefic Moon (ma- 
lefic because of the ownership of the eleventh house) along with the 
natural malefic Rahu, which being a shadow planet makes the house 
and its indications incomplete. Saturn is the sixth lord (twelfth to 
the seventh house) and its aspects on the house is quite undesir- 
able. Mars is quite an evil planet as the lord of the unfavourable 


lid A Course in Indian Astrology 
third and eighth houses, and the aspect of Mars on the seventh 
house is highly malefic. the seventh house is thus very weak. 

The lord of the seventh house Jupiter is occupying an 
unfavourable house (sixth) which is the twelfth (house of separa- 
tion) of the seventh house. And the seventh lord does not receive 
any aspect. 

Taking the significator of the seventh house (Venus), again 
we find evil dispositions with the house and the lord. Venus is in 
conjunction with the malefic twelfth lord (Sun) and the lord of the 
Ascendant (Mercury). Note that Mercury is debilitated in the sign 
Meena while for Venus Meena is the sign of exaltation. Further, 
Mercury has Kanya as the Moolakshethra and the sign obligation, 
while for Venus, Kanya is its sign of debilitation. 

The only one favourable point regarding the seventh house of 
this native is that the significator is favourable posited (in trine) 
with respect to the 7th house along with the Ascendant lord. So it is 
easy to conclude that if at all this native would become married, it 
would be a very late marriage (aspect of the Saturn who is a slow 
planet) and that the native's married life would be full of suffering 
and separations. (The experience of the native corroborated this 
inference). 

Not only with respect to marriage but with all the other signifi- 
cations of the seventh house would the above native be a loser. A‘ 
fuller judgement can be done only when we analyse the Dasaas and 
the sub-periods. If these are all unfavourable at the proper age then 
the native may not at all enjoy a married life. Altogether, in the 
above horoscope the 7th house is weak with respect to various fac- 
tors. 

Before we move on to the next house of our model horoscope, 
you may examine one more example on the lines explained above. 

Ascendant in Simha Sign, with Mars and Rahu; Kethu in the 
7th, Moon in 9th, Saturnin the 10th, Jupiter and Venus in the 11th 
and Sun with Mercury in the 12th. (Please draw the chart). 


Eighth House 


You would recall that one has to judge from the 8th house 
chiefly the length of life, mode of death, insults, hindrance, obstruc- 
tion, scandals, accidents etc. It is the house ofMangalya for women, 
and hence the prediction about widowhood 1s also to be done through 
the house. Itis the second house with respect to the seventh house 
and therefore in matters regarding dowry also can be read from 
the eighth house. Helpers of enemies are included init, as it is the 


A Course in Indian Astrology 115 
third of the sixth house. Similarly, being the fourth to fifth house it 
signifies the education and educational institutions of children. so 
also being the fifth of thefourth house it signifies the income form 
education and writing books. As the sixth of the third house it would 
indicate the enemies of brothers. Being the twelfth of the ninth 
house, eighth house signifies the hospitalisation of one's father. ln 
a similar way we may find out the relation of the eighth house to 
the other houses. In fact a fertile imagination for the Astrologers is 
required for such analysis. These things would be hardly seen in 
Books. 


Prasnamaarga gives the indictions of the eighth house by the 
sloka: 

Sarvapranaasoa Vipadoapavaadoa- 

Haethupradaesow Maransya Daesa: 

Matthaadikam Vaesma Gadaascha  Vighna: 

Vichinthaneeya: Punarashtamaena. 

(Destruction of everything, dangers, scandals, cause of death, 
place of death, servant, monasteries and the like, diseases and hin- 
drances are to be judged from the eighth house) 

It was stated that the death of the native is to be judged from 
the 8th house, Let us see bow this should be done. lfthe 8th house 
is occupied by malefic the native is not likely to meet with a natural 
end, and he might be murdered or may commit suicide. But if the 
8th house is connected with benefic the native's death would be 
natural peaceful and due to old age. If the 8th lord is connected 
with the sixth lord the native would die on account ofillness 

On the basis ofthelength of life natives may be classified into 
several groups. Those with a life-span of 8 years or less are classed 
as very short-living (Alpaayus); those with 8-32 years are short- 
living; those with 32-75 years are medium and those with a life 
spanof over 75 years are long living. There are several matters to 
classify horoscopes according to the conferred life-span. These would 
be discussed only in later units in detail. the period wise analysis is 
essential in such considerations, 


Let us now judge the 8th house of our model horoscope. re- 
produced here in the next page. (UNIT 26). 

The 8thhouse falls in the sign Kanya whichis neither aspected 
by any planet nor occupied by any planet. The lord ofthe 8th house 
is Mercury which is also the lord of a trine (fifth). The 8th lord is 
posited in the 12th house along with Sun (lord of a quadrant and 
friendly) and Venus (lord of the ninth, a trine and the fourth, a 
quadrant); both these planets are friendly to Mercury. Saturn is 


neutral to Mercury and so Mercury is not occupying an inimical 
Ketu,Me 

sign. But Mercury is aspected by Raahu from the sixth house and is 
strength, though it occupies the unfavourable 12th house. 

is aspected by the malefic Mars (lord of the 3rd) |It may be seen that 
in addition to quadrant lordship, to become benefic. This is particu- 
as such when the Sun is the lord of a quadrant ora trine it becomes 
It may also be said here that had Mars relations with a trine-lord, it 


Ls = ; ees A 
Asc Rehu 
Ea 
in conjunction with Kethu, both are malefic. So the lord of the 8th 
The significator of the 8th house is Saturn and is very strong 
Mars being the lord ofthe 10th [a quadrant] is a benefic. However 
larly so in the case of Mars. But for sun which owns only one sign, 
a benefic. Therefore in the horoscope under consideration, the Sun 
would have lost its maleficity, though it does not become a benefic 


116 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Ea 

house by occupation, aspects and conjunction has reasonable 
occupying the 9th house, which is its sign of exaltation. However it 
for malefic, according to Paraasara, trine-lordship also in required 
ownership of aquadrant and a trine simultaneously is not possible; 
is to be taken as a benelic while Mars hasto be treated as a malefic. 
completely]. 


Summing up, the 8th house is fairly strong and it is directly 
connected with the ford of Ascendant sign, Saturn in two ways- 

* 1. The Lagna lord is also the significatorof the eighth house. 

2. The 8th lord is occupying the sign of Lagna lord. Thus the 
singifications of the house would be experienced by the native as 
there is "Anubhava Yoaga" described earlier. So the native may be 
expected to enjoy a long life. 

Note: This conclusion is actually hasty. One has to consider 
in judging longevity the relative strengths of the Ascendant lord 
and the 8th lord. When the former is weak and the latter is strong, 
the native would be short-lived, and vice versa. Further we must 


A Course in Indian Astrology 117 
analyse the Dasaas and Bhukthis to determine the time of death, 
before we conclude about the longevity of any native. Usually death 
occurs in the combined ruling periods of Maarakas (death-causing 
planets) and Baadhakas (Maarakas are the lords of 2nd and 7th, 
the malefic posited im the 2nd and 7th and malefic aspecting there; 
Baadhakaas are the lords ofthe Baadhaka positions 11th for mov- 
able ascendant signs, 9th for fixed and 7th for common). Detailed 
study of the death inflicting planets and prediction of death would 
be done in later units. 

To gain more experience in judging the 8th house examine 
the following example also. 

Example 1: Ascendent Dhanus, Mars and Venus in the first 
house, Sun in the second, Mercury with Rahu in the third, Moon 
and Jupiter inthe 8th, Kethu in the ninth and Saturn in the elev- 
enth. 

(Hints: The 8th house is aspected by the significator (Saturn) 


es 
, >. 


Moon 
Jupiter 4 


from the 11th house, which is its sign of exaltation. Saturn has 
lordships of the 2nd and 3rd houses The lord of the fifth and 12th 
(Mars) posited in the first house and the lord of the 9th house (Sun) 
posited in the second, also aspect the 8th house. Further the as- 
cendant lord as well as the 8th lord (Jupiter and Moon) are both 
posited in the 8th. Note the high strength of the house. The lord of 
the house itself is in the house, along with the ascendant lord Jupiter 
in its exaltation state. The significator Saturn is also exalted). 

Example 2: Ascendant in Simha, Saturn with Kethu in the 
second, Mercury, Venus and Sun in the fifth, Mars in the sixth, 
Jupiter in the 7th and Moon with Rahu inthe 8th (The chart may 
be prepared. 


118 A Course in Indian Astrology 

In this nativity the 12th lord Moon is posited along with the 
malefic Rahu in the 8th the lord of the 8th house (Jupiter) is posited 
in the 7th (i.e.. 12th from the 8th), whichis weakening the 8th. The 
aspect of the 8th lord on a ascendant is also harmful to the life of 
the native. The 8th is further afflicted by the malefic aspect of Saturn 
which being the lord ofthe seventh and posited in the second has 
great death inflicting tendencies. Kethu being posited in the second 
along with the Maaraka Saturn, is also casting its killing aspect on 
the eighth house. This native having afflictions for Moon, Ascend- 
ant and also the eighth house cannot have a long life and the native 
died at a very young age in the Saturn's period. 


Example 3: Simha Ascendant, Mars in the second, Mercury, 
Saturn and Kethu in the fifth, Sun in the sixth, Venus in the sev- 
enth, Jupiter in the tenth, Moon with Rahu in the eleventh. (This 
native also died at a very young age. Draw the chart and, try your- 


<< 


selfto find out the reason). 

In this horoscope the lord of the 8th house (Venus) is strong 
and is posited in its own sign (Vrishabha). However though the 8th 
house is not weak, it is occupied by the malefic Kethu which ac- 
quires Maaraka tendencies by being aspected by Rahu occupied in 
the Maaraka position. Though Jupiter is posited favourably (10th) 
on closér analysis it can be seen that Jupiter occupies the asterism 
for which Kethuis the lord. (From the longitude ofeach planet we 
can find out the star). Mars casts its aspect on the 8th house and 
Rahu aspects the 8th house from the sign owned by Mars. The ma- 
lefic (eleventh and 12th lord) Saturn also is aspecting the second 
house (Maaraka position) from Kataka where it is in conjunction 
withthe Maarakaadhipathi Mars. Note that the 8th house is owned 
by Venus and it is not surprising to know that the native died in an 
accident in which a bus (significator: Venus) squeezed the native. 


A Course in Indian Astrology Ao 
The same conclusion can be reached by analysis of thehouses, count- 
ing the sign occupied by the Moon as Lagna. 


UNIT 30 


The Ninth House 


The ninth house in a horoscope is as important as the first 
And this is most important than all other Bhavasbarring first. It is 
the house of fortune (Bhagya Bhava), as well as the house of 
beneficity (Subha Bhava). The ninth house signifies father, grand- 
children (fifth house from the fifth house, hence children of chil- 
dren), intuition, leadership, fortune, teachers (Gurus), religion, 
charities, higher education, long travels, pilgrimage and the like, 
Prasnamaarga describes the significations of the ninth house thus: 


Bhaagya dharma dayaa punya 

Thapasthaatha suthaatmaja, 

Daanopasana  sowseelya 

Guravoa Navamaadamee. 

[Fortune, righteousness, sympathy, good deeds, spiritual en- 
deavours, father, grand children, charity, upasana, good habits and 
preceptors are to be judged from the ninth house.) 

The main significations of the ninth house being the father, 
Sun is the chief significator ofthehouse, Generally Sun and Jupiter 
are considered to be the general significators of this house. How- 
ever it is wiser to consider the proper significator for each matter 
signified by the house. Thus when judging about pilgrimage or for- 
tune or sympathy Jupiter is to be taken as the significator; but if 
the matter under prediction is in regard to father, Sun the 
Pithrukaaraka becomes the significator. In the case of Thapas or 
Religion both the Sun and Jupiter are to be taken as significators. 

Let us now discuss the ninth house of our model horoscope 
(unit26). The ninth house falls in the sign Thula occupied by the 
lord of the ascendent, Saturn (in the exalted state). The house is 
aspected by Mars, from the third house. Mars is a malefic, .being 
the lord of the 3rd, but its harm is diminished by its being the lord 
of the tenth (which is a quadrant). 

The lord of the ninth house is Venus which is posited favour- 
ably to the house (in the 4th). It may appear that Venus being in 
the 12th house weakens the ninth house. This is not so, because 
Venus in the 12th house is highly beneficial and is said to confer all 
prosperity. However Venus is afflicted by the conjunction with the 
Sun and Kethu and with the 8th Lord Mercury, There is also the 


120 A Course in Indian Astrology 
evil aspect of Rahu. It is to be noted that Venus is occupying Sat- 
urn's sign while Saturn is occupying Venus. sign (parivarthanam). 
This means that the native would enjoy the signification of the ninth 
house. Coming to the significations of the ninth house Sun the 
Pithrukaraka is afflicted by conjunction with Kethu, by the enemy 
Venus and by the aspect of Rahu. The conjunction with mercury as 
the 8th lord is certainly harmful but Mercury is also the fifth lord (a 
trine ford) and Sun is the lord ofa quadrant (seventh). Conjunction 
of atrine lord with a quadrant lord is a special combination and is a 
Raajayoga. 

More than these afflictions, the occupation of the 12th house 
by the Sun indicates separation from and difference of opinion with 
father. This separation might be because of higher education ( 9th 
house) and consequent separation (12th house). The other signifi- 
cator of ninth house, Jupiter is posited in the 11th house in its own 
sign. Jupiter is also the lord of the second. As eleventh lord Jupiter 
acquires maleficity. Yet as the significator of the ninth house for 
matters of higher education, spiritual and religious matters etc., 
Jupiter is favourable because of the occupation of 11th house and 
on account of the aspect of the Ascendant lord. Moon's aspect is not 
quite favourable here. 

It must be noted that the ninth house is very good for the 
native, but for a little separation from parents (both the fourth lord 
and the ninth lord are one and the same-Venus and it is posited in 
the 12th ) A strong ninth house confers longevity as well. 

lt is a general principle to divide the signification of each house 
into intrinsic (Aabhyanthara) and extrinsic (Baahya) significations. 
For instance the ninth house signifies father and also good habits, 
among many others ‘father is classified into extrinsic and good habit 
into intrinsic signification. When the house is strong but not re- 
lated to the lord of thehouse, indications of thehouse are to be read 
with respect to the extrinsic signification and when related to the 
house-lord intrinsic significations are to be given importance. Ac- 
cording to the dictum in Prasnamaarga, 

Yadyallagnaadibhischinthyam 

Thatthathswaqmi samaagamae 

Aabhyantharam — bhavaeth-sarvam 

Vigneyam baahyamanyadhaa 

(For each house if it is in conjunction with the lord, the intrin- 
sic significations are to be judged from it. If there is no conjunction 
with the lord the house has to bejudged with respect to the extrin- 
sic significations.) 


A Course in Indian Astrology 121 

Consider the following horoscope now: 

Ascendant-Sinha; Kethu in the second, Moon inthe fifth, Rahu 
in the 8th, Jupiter with Sun and Mercury in the ninth, Venus with 
Mars in the tenth and Saturn in the eleventh .(Please prepare the 
horoscope yourself) 

The ninth house is Mesha where the lord of the ascendent is 
in exaltation, along with the lords ofthefifth and 8th (Jupiter) and 
the lord of thehouses 2 and 11 (mercury) However the ninth house 
is flanked by two natural malefic Rahu and Mars, (It might be ar- 
gued that Mars is not a malefic for Simha Lagna, for it owns a 
quadrant-fourth-and a trine ninth-house and hence is a Yogakaraka. 
If so Venus has to be considered a malefic on account of the lord- 
ships of the third house and of the tenth house, a quadrant. Thus 
the significa tor of the 9th house is flanked by malefic. Note that the 
significator of theninth house is also the lord of the Ascendant. 


The 9th lord Mars, also being the 4th lord is himself 4 
Yogakaraka and is in conjunction with the lord of the 10th Venus. 
The combination of the 9th and 10th lords is very auspicious espe- 
cially because the conjunction is in the 10th house itself. (Moreover 
Mars in the 10th is very favourable). 

With these points in mind one can predict about each matter 
indicated by the ninth house. In any analysis we must concentrate 
upon the particular signification and significator. 

When we judge about the native's factor there are good and 
evil relations. The result also should be mixed. As described above 
the beneficial indications are (1) house is fairly strong with its lord 
posited ina quadrant (2) the exalted state of the significator. Hence 
the native's factor would be of noble birth and would be in a re- 
spectable status. However there are quite a number of malefic indi- 
cations; (1) The significator-Sun is in the concerned house itself. (2) 
The significator is in conjunction with the 12th lord of the house 
and the sixth lord of the house (3)The significator is flanked by 
malefic (4) The lord of the ninth house is in conjunction with the 
Venus which owns the second and seventh (Maaraka positions) 
houses of the9th house. (5)The lord of the 9th house is flanked by 
malefic, (Note also that the ninth house is occupied by the 8th lord 
Jupiter and the lord of 11th (Mercury). 

It is not surprising that the native's father did not five long. 
He died when the native was enjoying the period of the 8th lord 
(Jupiter) which is also the lord of the 12th house with respect to the 
ninth. 

Consider another example in which the native lost his father 


122 A Course in Indian Astrology 
within an year of the native's birth. Please draw the sketch. 
Ascendant-Vrischigam, Jupiter in the second, Mars in the 
third (exalted), Saturn with Rahu in the fourth, Sun with Venus in 
the sixth, Mercury in the seventh and Moon with Kethu in the tenth. 
Note that the significator is aspected and combined with ma- 


lefic. 
Foreign Travel 


Whether a native would travel to places far away from his 
native place is to be judged mainly from the ninth house and its 
lord. The twelfth house and its lord are also important factors. Mov- 
able signs and watery signs have strong relations to foreign travel. 

The lord of the twelfth house from the lord of Lagna, if pos- 
ited in an mimical sign or if weak the native would have to travel to 
foreign countries. Further, the lord of the Lagna should be occupy- 
ing a movable sign and should be aspected by planets from move- 
able signs should be occupying a movable signand should be aspected 
by planets from movable signs. 

Usually foreign travel is conferred on the native during the 
Dasa, Bhukthi or chhidra of the planets posited in the ninth, of the 
planets aspecting the ninth or of the lord of the ninth. 

Depending upon the nature ofthelords and significators con- 
nected with the ninth house, the reasons for the foreign travel can 
be predicted. When the fourth house (education) is related to the 
9th, the foreign travel would be for purpose of higher education or 
for teaching. When the tenth house is related to the 9th, the jour- 
ney would be for earning the livelihood. When related to the sixth, 
the travel is due to employment. When the Lagna is weak and the 
9th is related to the sixth, the travel might be for treatment. When 
the eighth and twelfth house are related to the ninth, the travel 
would be related to smuggling, drugs and such unlawful deeds. 


When Saturn, Jupiter, Lord of the ninth and the lord of the 
12th are very favourable and strong, the native might establish 
monastery or aashram in a foreign country. 

Take for example our model horoscope. We have discussed 
about the 9th house more with respect to the father. Note that the 
lord of the ninth which is also the 4th lord (Venus) is posited in the 
12 and is in Parivarthana with the 12th lord Saturn which is also 
the lord of Lagna. The lord of 12th house from the lagna lord is 
Mercury which is not in an inimical sign, but is not very strong due 
to afflictions and is posited with the 9th lord and is posited in the 
twelfth house from the Lagna-lord is Mercury which is not in an 


A Course in Indian Astrology 123 
posited in the twelfth. Mercury is also the significator of education; 
and itis in conjunction with Venus the lord of 4th; both of them are 
posited in the 9th from the 4th, Wehad predicted for the native, 
separation form parents and this separation would be related to 
education. The native might leave his home, A strong Jupiter and 
strong Saturn flanking the 10 house indicate highly religious deeds 
and the foreign travel can be connected with a philosophic or reli- 
gious mission. 

In the horoscope given below, the native has undertaken a 
number of foreign travels all connected with education. The As- 
cendant is in a movable sign. Jupiter and the lord of 9 and 12 Mer- 
cury are also in movable signs. The 11th lord and the lord of Lagna 
are in watery signs. 


The following is a horoscope of a native who has undertaken 


foreign travel for the propagation of Indian culture and religion: 

Ascendant in Dhanus, Sun, Venus and Mercury in the 2nd, 
Marsin 5 th, Kethu in 6th, Saturn with Moon in the 10th and Rahu 
in the 12 th, 


Pilgrimage 


The 9th house signifies pilgrimages. In the past , and even 
today, Indians consider pilgrimage as a very sacred and good deed 
and a means of cleaning oneself. There is the saying, 

“Kaasyaam thu maranaath Mukthi:” 

which means that one attains salvation by death at Kaasi 
(Varanasi) Though pilgrimage is still important for all Indians, the 
auns have been extended to include enjoyment and learning. There 
are several special combinations in the horoscopes called -Yogaas- 
indicating pilgrimage, about which we would discuss in later units. 


124 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Usually, pilgrimage would be undertaken in the period 
of the fourth lord. If Jupiter is in conjunction with the lord of 5th, 
7th, 9th or 10th house in a watery sign the native might die during 
pilgrimage. When the lords of 9th and 10thjoin, the native might 
undertake long pilgrimages. So also, Jupiter aspecting ninth house 
indicates the possibility of holy bathing (Theerthasnaana). 


UNIT 31 


The Tenth House 


The 10th house is a difficult one for prediction in any nativity 
and at the same time is a very important one as it signifies the 
profession or occupation, means of livelihood. honour and dignity, 
fame and the like. wisdom, foreign travel self-respect, temples, inns 
and taverns, Servants are also indicated by the house.Prasnamarga 
describes the. indications by the sloka; 

Daevaalaya Nagara Sabhaa_ Maargaalaya 

Dasa Sarvakarmaani 

Aagjnaalambana -  maetath sarvam 

Chinthyam hi dasamaena. 

(Places of worship, city, meetings and meeting places, courts, 
inns\botels\taverus, servants, power, dependence, all these are to 
be judged from the 10th house). 

Paraasara summarises the indications thus:- 

Raajyam-chaakaasa vrithim cha, 

Gaanam cha Pitharam _ thathaa 

Anam chaapi pravaasam cha, 

Vyoma sthaanarmireekshayaeth 

(Country, heaven, occupation, singing, parents, debts, jour- 
ney-these are to be divined from the tenth house also known as the 
sky-house). The tenth house is the most important among the quad- 
rants, other than Lagna. 

The 10th house is a headache for the astrologers of thepresent 
time Due to the very fast changes in all aspects of life, the indica- 
tions from the 10th house become very complex and full of diversi- 
ties. As a result the exact analysis of the 10th house requires very 
much experience and skill. But, most of the customers who would 
approach the astrologer, would be doing so with some problem as- 
sociated with the 10th house - profession/occupation. Ifthe astrolo- 
ger is not able to provide a satisfactory solution, the customer would 
naturally ridicule not only the astrologer but also Astrology. There- 
fore, handling the 10th house matters be done with extreme care 


A Course in Indian Astrology 125 
and skill. 

Due the diversity of the significations of the 10th house, the 
number of significators also are several. Generally Jupiter, Sun, 
Mercury and Saturn are said to be the indicators ofthe 10th house. 
But we have to include all the planets in the list. 

As for the other houses, the 10th house is also examined by 
considering the house, its lord and the significator. But when we 
judge about the profession/occupation we must consider the stronger 
key planet of the nativity as important as the 10th house and its 
lord. 

Ifthe 10th house or the planets occupying the 10th house are 
aspected by benefic, the native will enjoy success and good results 
in bis profession. For instance when the Sun Rahu are posited in 
the 10th house and are aspected by Jupiter, the native would be a 
politician. When both Sun and Mars are aspected by Jupiter, the 
native would be a politician. When the Mars is strong the native‘is 
likely to become a doctor or physician. 

The modern man has a multitude of means oflivelihood and 
occupations. Teacher, Mathematician, Scientist, Philosopher, Prac- 
titioner of medical sciences, Astrologer, Astro-scientist, Psycholo- 
gist, Advocate, Judge and the like are grouped together as the cat- 
egory occupied with intelligent work. Politicians, Bank Employees, 
Industrialists, Traders, Capitalists, Auditors and the like are 
grouped as those in financial professions. 

Musicians, Cinema and Drama actors, Dancers, Instrumen- 
tal artists, Sculptors, Poets, Painters and the like are grouped as 
artistic professionals. 

Labourers, Peasants, Farmers, Press Labours, those involved 
in muscular jobs and similar with the products obtained by the ef- 
fort of others, form a separate category. 

We may go on like this, grouping the lakhs of occupations but 
if the Astrologer, who has only a bit of paper named horoscope be- 
fore him with just the 10th house to indicate all these, makes a 
slight mistake in his predictions about the native's occupation, the 
so called rationalists would howl at him. and stamp him as a cheat 
and declare that Astrology is superstition. 

Generally intelligence-oriented occupations are judged from 
Mercury and Jupiter, art based occupations are judged from Venus, 
economics-oriented professions from Sun, Moon and Mars, trade 
from Mercury, occupations involving physical labour from Saturn 
and common employment from Rahu and Kethu. 

The 10th house is like a vast ocean which cannot be explored 


126 A Course in Indian Astrology 
completely even by research lasting for a life time. Now let us try to 
analyse the 10th house of our model horoscope. 

In the examination of the 10th house we have to examine the 
10th house, the planets aspecting the 10th house, the planets occupy- 
ing the 10th, the lord of the 10th, the planets aspecting the lord and 
similarly the 10th house from Moon also. People of advanced knowl- 
edge will examine the constellation also where the 10th Bhava lord 
is posited, and the planet occupying the Nakshatra of the planet 
posited in the 10th Bhava. In the model horoscope, the 10th house 
is Vrischigam, the watery sign owned by Mars. The house is devoid 
of any planet, and it receives no aspect except the aspect of thelord 
Mars. However it may be noted that the house is flanked on either 
side by strong Jupiter and an even stronger Saturn (exalted). This 
gives very good strength to the house. The lord of the house is again 
very strong, occupying its Moolakshetra (Mesha). Mars occupies 
the 6th from the house and aspects the house. The lord is aspected 
by Jupiter from the 11th house and by the Lagna lord Saturn both 
very strong. The 10th lord Mars is also the lord of the 3rd and is 
the significator of brothers occupying the 6th from the house. This 
suggests two things. There would be obstacles in matter pertaining 
to profession and might involve in some difference of opinion with 
brothers in matters pertaining to profession. The native might be 
an advocate or a judge or a teacher or a leader ora religious man. 
The influence of a strong Saturn is important in this horoscope. 
There is very likelihood that the person might be a teacher and in 
later years he would turn to spiritual matters because the Karma 
Bhava (10th house) is flanked by strong Jupiter and strong Saturn, 
both aspecting Mars the 10th lord. Moreover, most of the planets 
are in movable signs and the native might undertake foreign travel 
and pilgrimage, as we discussed in the previous unit. The houses 1, 
5, 10, 9, 12 have strong connections with Saturn, Jupiter and Kethu, 
the planets responsible for liberation. And the planets crowd in the 
12th. Naturally the native would turn into a spiritually elevated 
person and would spend a lot of his earnings in good spiritual deeds. 
The aspect of Moon in the 11th house and the lord of the 
Dhanabhaava (2nd) and significator of wealth posited in the 11th 
also indicate ups and downs in the earnings due to expense for sa 
cred deeds. 


It is difficult to predict with this much detail alone in the 
chart, thatis, without the exact longitude of the planets -the exact 
profession. However in the above we have given the importance to 
the higher education of the native and the strong aspects of Jupiter 


A Course in Indian Astrology 127 
and Saturn. The strong exalted Saturn aspects Jupiter and is in- 
volved in Parivarthana with Venus the Yogakaraka and it is the 
combined aspect ofthis Saturn and Jupiter which falls on Mars. So 
the 10th house lord, though strong, being posited in the 6th to the 
10th, the native is more likely to take up a profession signified by 
Jupiter and strong Saturn, rather than the one signified by Mars. 
Jupiter is the 10th lord from the Moon. So it is more reasonable to 
predict a teacher's profession .Thekey planets in the horoscope are 
Venus and Saturn of which the exalted Saturn is the most power- 
ful, especially because it is very much in co-operation with Venus. 

Now, here is a horoscope of an officer in the army. Try to 
analyse his 10th house yourself. 

Ascendant in Dhanus, Saturn and Jupiter in the first house, 
Sun, Mercury and Venus in the fifth, Kethu in the 6th, Mars in the 
9th, Moon in the 10th and Rahu in the 12th, (It is always safer to 
consider the asterism in which the planets are posited. It is found 
that the planets posited in an asterism (star) would give the results 
of the lord of the star. More about this would be discussed later). 

It would be useful to know the planets associated with each 
profession. The following list is not exhaustive but only a collection 
from several experienced astrologers. 

Now try to get a few horoscopes of persons known to you. Try 
to correlate the occupation of each native with the indications of 
the 10th house. If you want to predict correctly the profession it is 
essential that you should have examined several horoscopes of sev- 
eral persons. Horoscopes with exact longitude of planets will be more 
helpful in correct prediction. We shall learn about the necessity of 
longitude in horoscope in later lessons. 

An alphabetical list of occupation suggested by various plan- 
ets are given in the ensuing pages as a general guideline to the 
students. 


128 
Occupation Planets 
Acid manufacture J, V, Mn, Ms 
Advocate J 
Aluminium V,Ms 
Atomic energy Sn, Ms, J 
Automobile V, Ms 
Auditor Ms 
Armoury Ms 
Army Ms 
Ayurvedic Medicine J, Ms, V, Sn 
Asbestos S, M. Mc 
Agency Me, J 
Aeroplane S, V. Ms 
Airconditioning S. Ms, V 
Architect Mc 
Accountancy Me 
Accountant(mines) J, Me, S 
Accountant( Jail) J, Mc, R 
Advertisement J, Mc 
Artist and 
work of art Vv 
Agricultural tools S 
Astrology Mc, J, s 
Auctioning Mc. J 
Astrologer Me, S, J 
Barber Ms 
Battery Ms, V, Mc, 
Mn 
Beautician ' WV 
Building work Ss 
Butchery Ms 
Brick V, Ms 
Brush Vv, Sn. S 
Boxing Ms 
Boiler Ms, Mn, Mc 
Bank J, Me, Sn 
Bakelite Ms, V, s 
Broadcasting J, V, Mc 
Block making V, Sn, Mn, 
Mc 
Begger S 
Beverages Mn 
Book Mc, J 
Bread Mn 
Cap Vv 
Cotton Mn, V 
Cooking Ms, V. Mn 
Cosmetics Vv 


Chemicals Ms 


A Course in Indian Astrology 


Casting metals Ms, S 
Communications Me 
Cottage Industry 

Coffin S 
Child care Sn 
Cemetry S 
Circus Sn 
Cooperation J,V 
Cinema VV. Mc. J 
Cement Vv 
Cable Me 
Calendar Me, J 
Charcoul S, Ms 
Clerk Mc 
Coal S 
Catering Mn 
Chair Vv 
Coffee Plantation Vv 
Cashier J 
Cartoonist Vv 
Coaltar Mn, Ms, S 
Coppet Sn 
Cooling S, V 
Dress V, Ms 
Drawing Mc 
Driver Mc 
Defence Ms, Sn, S 
Documents Mc 
Dentistry Ms 
Dye “Vv 
Decoratory materials Vv 
Domestic tools * V 
Diary Mn 
Diamond Sn, V 
Embroidery Vv 
Eye specialist V,Sn, Ms 
Entertainments V, mec 
Excavations S 
Engine Ms 
Education J, mc, S 
Electricity and 

. Electrical things mc 
Estate mn 
Foreign Affairs mn, mc, Sn 
Fertilizer ms, S, V 
Fish industry mn, ms, V, S 
Flower merchant Vv 
Heater ms, mc, V 


A Course in Indian Astrology 


Hotel ms, V, mn 
Handloom mn, mc, ms 
Health Sn, ms 
fron S, ms 
Iron articles ms, 
Instrumental music Vv 
lee making S 
Ink ms, V, mn 
(in watery signs) 

Industry Sn, ms, mc 
Ivory me, S, V 
Journey mn 
Journalist mc 
Judge ms, J, V, S 
Literature J 
Lecturer J 
Law J, ms, Sn 
Lozenges ms, V 
Lock making ms 
Leather S 
Labour department S, mc, ms 
Lens Vv 
Mica Vv, S 
Medicine making and 

trade ms, Sn 
Motor car V, ms 
Management of temple J 
Mine S 
Mining engineer S, mc, V 
Musician Vv 
Messenger mc 
Money transaction Sn 
Modern articles Vv 


Member of parliament Sn, mc, J 


Milk V, mn 
Magician mn 
Minister Sn, J, Ms, V 
Medicine V, mn 
Martine Engineer mn, mc, Ms 
Metallurgy Ms 
Nurse Mn 
Officer Sn 
Oven Ms 
Oil Seeds Mn 
Press Ms, Mc 
Painting V, Mc, Mn 
Peoples's representative J 
Provision store J 
Power house Ms, Mc, V 

Priest S 
Pencil Mc, S 


129 


Petrol S, Mn 
Paper "Me 
Pipe Mn, Ms, nic 
Police Ms 
Postman Mc 
President Ms, J,V.s 
Plastic Mn 
Peon Ss 
Plumber S 
Photography Sn, V, Im 
Radio J, V. Mc 
Railway V, Me 
Rice mill Ms, V. Ale 
Rubber V. Mn, Mz: 
Rulers Sn 
Research Mc, Ms 
Real estate S. Ms 
Steel S. Ms 
Ship building Mn. S 
Stones S, ms 
Sculptor Vv 
Sacrifice Ny 
Silk Vv 
Sugar “Vv 
Sweets Mn 
Silver Mn, V 
Spirtual matters Js 
Spiritualism J.s 
Surgery Ms 
Scientific Instrurments V, Me 
Sanitory works V, Mc 
Social work Vv 
Sarees Vv 
Spices V, Mn 
Secretary Mc, Ms, J, Sn 
Salesman Mec, J 
Soap V, Ms 
Steno S. Mc, Mn 
Stationary Mc 
Tomb S 
Temple headpriest J 
Tobacco merchant J 
* Translator Mc 
Tunnel Ms 
Theatre manager .sn 
Tailor Ms, V 
Timber Vv 
Transport Ms, V, Mc 
Typist Ms, Mc 
Telephone Mc 
Television V, Ms, Sn, Mc 


130 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Tin J 
Tanning Ms, Mn, V,S 
pe 1 ‘ WM: Details of Abbrevation of 
Ee eer : Planets 
Textile Mn, Mc 
: Mn—- Moon 

Teaching me, J 

Mec— Meréury 
Tools ms, mc 

Ms- Mars 
Trenches ms, S 
VIP's Sn S- Saturn 
Watchman Ny Sn~ uaa 
Work shop ms, S J- P 

V- Venus 
Water supply mn, ms, mc 
Yarn mn, mc 
The Hieventh House 

UNIT 32 


The 11th house is very important as it has to be examined in 
relation to other houses for judging those houses, It is the house of 
income, and represents all gains, fulfilment, profit, elder brother/ 
sister, well-wisher friends, earnings, relief from suffering, joy, left 
ear etc. Prasnamarga summarises the indication thus. 

Sarvaabheeshtaagamo  Jyaeshta- 

bhreatha, jaathaa: Nijaatmajaa: 

Vaama ~~ karnoa-rthalaabhascha 

Chinthyaa-hi-ekaadasaena thae. 

(Realisation of all desires, elder brother, children born to the 
native, left ear, gain of wealth- these areto be judged fromthe 11th 
house. One need not be surprised at this phrase. The dictum is to be 
used in Prasna-horary astrology- also. 

The queries regarding the existing children are indicated by 
the 11th house. So one need not wonder how the 11th house ofa 
‘child' would indicate about the children 'Born' to the native.) 

According to Paraasara, the 11thhouse is described as: 

Naanaa Vasthu  Bhavasyapi 

Puthra - jaayaadihasya cha 

Aayam Pasu - Samrudhim cha 

« Bhavasthaanannireekshayaeth 

(Gains of several things, wife etc of the son |the 7th house of 
the Sth house], profits and income, prosperity and wealth (cattle) 
are to be observed in the 11thhouse known as the Bhava-sthaana) 

When benefics occupy the house the native would earn 
through normal means whereas ifthe house is occupied be malefics 
the native would make money through unlawful means as ind.- 


.A Course in Indian Astrology 131 
cated by the planet. So also on occupation of the house by strong 
planets, the native will have landed assets, vehicles, good residence, 
and other living comforts. 

As in other houses one has to analyse the various factors - the 
house, the lord, the significator. Let us examine the 11th house of 
our model horoscope first. The 11th house in Dhanus, occupied by 
the lord Jupiter which is aspected by the exalted Lagnaadhipa 
(Saturn) from the ninth house. The house is also aspected by Moon 
from the fifth house. This aspect is not beneficial to the house as 
moon in a planet indicating waxing and waning. So the 11thhouse 
indications would have ‘ups' and 'downs'. Further the moon is the 
lord of the 6th, and the 8th houseis not applicable to Sun and Moon 
as they have one house only. 


Regarding the lord of the house, it is posited in the house 
itself and hence is strong. The strength is further increased by the 
aspect from the lord of the second house (house of wealth). Hence 
the native would be gaining wealth through lawful means and he 
would enjoy it, but he is to face difficulties too intermittently. 

In fact the fulfilment of the indications of each house is to be 
judged from its relations to the 11thhouse. For instance, the lord of 
the second house is aspecting the 7th house and is posited in the 
11th. So the relation between the houses 2, 7, 11 is very clear and 
we can conclude that the naive will have to enjoy a married life. 

The general significator of the 11th house is Jupiter. 

The indications of the 11thhouse in this nativity are clearly 
of a strong house and would be enjoyed by the native. Further, each 
planet associated with the 11th house through aspects, conjunc- 
tion, exchange of signs or otherwise would gain the conferring abil- 
ity of their respective signification For instance the 11th house 
lord aspects the lord of the 10th (Mars) and we have already seen 
the importance of this aspect in deciding the occupation of the na- 
tive. (See previous unit). 


Matters regarding the elder brother (sister) are also to be 
judged from the 11th house. The benefic’s aspects and conjunction 
in the 11thhouse and also a strong (Mars) and Jupiter would indi- 
cate the well being of the elder brother. This is so in the model 
horoscope. 

Thus the relation of the 10th lord with the 11th house indi- 
cates gain of younger brother of the significator of the seventh house 
with the 11th gain of spouse and so on. 

Now try to judge the following horoscopes with reference to 
the [lth house. 


132 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Example: 1 Ascendant in Mithuna, Venus in the first, 

Saturn in the 2nd, Mars in the 3rd, Kethu in the 5th, Moon and 

Jupiter in the 7th, Sun with Mercury and Rahu inthe 11th. 

Example: 2 Vrishabha Ascendant; Rahu, Saturn and 
Mercury in the 5th, Sun and Jupiter in the 7th, Kethu in the 9th, 
Venus in the 10th, Sun and Mercury in the 12th. 

Example: 3 Kanya-Lagna;Mars, Rahu and Moon in the 
3rd, Jupiter in the 4th, Saturn in the 7th, Kethu in the 9th, Venus 
in the 10th, Sun and Mercury in the 12th. 

Example: 4 Vrishabha-Lagna; Venus in the Ist house, 
Mars in the second, Rahuin the 3rd, Saturn in the 6th, Moon inthe 
8th, Kethu and Jupiter in the 9th and Sun with Mercury in the 
12th 

In this horoscope the 11th house has no occupant and is not 
aspected by any planet. The lord of the 11this also the lord of the 
8th and occupies the 9th with a malefic in a debilitated state, It is 
also aspected by the 12th (and 7th) lord Mars and a malefic Rahu. 
The significator Mars is posited in the 2nd (12th to 3rd) and in an 
enemy's sign. Mars is also the lord of the 12th house Jupiter and 
Mars are both weak and afflicted. The 11th house is also weak. No 
wonder that the native did not have any co-borns. 

Example: 5 Ascendant in Dhanus; Moon in the 4th, 
Kethu in the 6th, Mars in the 7th, Sun and Jupiter (exalted) in the 
8th, Venus with Saturn and Mercury in the 9th, and Rahu in the 
12th. 

This is a nativity of a person who had good gains and is also 
an equal loser. The native was a prince who lost all his status when 
India became independent. You can see both beneficial and also the 
evil factors. Note that the lord of Ascendant is in conjunction with 
the 9th lord and is exalted. The 11th lord Venus is posited in the 
3th whichis 12th to the 10th (Venus in the 12th of any house gives 
prosperity to that house). Also it is the 11th of the 11th. It is in 
conjunction with two friendly planets. However take a closer look 
at the nativity, The Jupiter is occupying the unfavourable 8th and 
is related to Moon the 8th lord of Parivarthana (Exchange of signs). 
Also Moon is aspected by Jupiter is flanked by malefic. (3rd and 
12thlord Saturn and Mars). The 9th lord is posited in the 8th. Hence, 
by birth the native should enjoy noble stands but has to lose the 
honours and wealth at the appropriate periods and bhukthis. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 133 
The Twelfth House Unit 33 


The last of the houses should necessarily be signifying the 
end of one's life-Moksha. The 12th house also indicates, losses, sepa- 
ration, investment, expenditure, left eye, leg, divine wisdom, lib- 
eration, hospitalisation and the like, Prasnamaarga describes the 
12th house thus: 

Paapam Vyayam cha Pathanam 

Niryam Vaamamambkam 

Stthaanabhhramsamcha_ vaikalyam 

Dwadasena _ Vichinthayaeth. 

(Sins, expenditure, fall into hell, left eye, displacement (from 
status and native place) danger to limbs etc are to be judged from 
the 12th house). 

Paraasara describes the house as follows: 

Vyayam cha Vairivrutthaantham 

Rippham-anthyaadikamatthaa 

Vyayamcchaiva hi jaaneeyaa- 

dithi sarvathra Buddhimaan. 

(Expenses, matters about enemy, suffering, liberation salva- 
tion and separation] are to be judged by the house of expenditure- 
the Vyayabhaava’). 

The 12th house is also known as the Durithabhaava or house 
of suffering and the house of loss or separation. Though it is the 
house of expenses, if related to benefics the native would spend for 
good deeds and if related to malefics the expenses would be for wicked 
and bad purposes. When the 12th lord is aspected by Jupiter the 
native would donate money to others and would be glad in dona- 
tions (Daanaseela). When the 9th lord is posited in the 12th, the 
native will spend for pilgrimage. When the 12th lord and Venus are 
strong the native would enjoy Pleasure (sayana sukham). If a weak 
Venus is connected with the 12th house, expenditure would be caused 
for the sake of women. Weak Sun posited in the 12th signifies loss of 
money due to confiscation by the Government. Mars in 12th indi- 
cates expenditure on account of legal procedure and the like. Weak 
Moon in the 12th foretells expenses for treatment. Weak 12th lord, 
ifrelated to the 4th house expense would be for the sake of mother, 
Likewise relations to 5 and 9 indicates children and father respec- 
tively. 

Venus in the 12th house is exceptionally good and confers 
prosperity and comfort. Venus strengthens any house by occupying 
its 9th or the 12 to its lord or significator. 


134 A Course in Indian Astrology 

The lords of 2nd 12 along with Venus cause blindness from 
birthif they occupy unfavourable positions. Whenua weak Moon is 
connected with the 12th house, the native would suffer night-blind- 
ness. 

The 12th house is as important as the 10th house in modern 
life as it signifies taxes, profit and loss, poverty, tax-raids, quarrels 
and legal proceedings, smuggling, black money, imprisonment, hos- 
pitalisation etc. 

In our model horoscope the 12th house is Makara owned by 
the lord of Ascendant itself. It is occupied by the seventh lords (Sun) 
with the 5th and 8th lord Mercury, Venus the lord of 9th and 4, and 
Kethu. We have already discussed during the discussion of the 9th 
and 10th house about this distribution. The lord of the 12th is very 
strong and is by Rahu. The significator of the 12th house is Saturn, 

Since the 12th house is strong and is related to Saturn, Venus, 
Kethu, Mercury and Sun. And the houses 4, 5, 8, 9, 7, Saturn is in 
Parivarthana with the Yogakaraka, Venus, (lord of 4 and 9) the 
native would have to leave the parents and native place. He would 
separate himself from the family. However, he would spend and 
travel for very good purposes-spiritual in nature (read the discus- 
sion of the 10th house). Due to the relation to the significators of 
Moksha-Kethu, Rahu, Saturn and Jupiter the native would attain 
Moksha. 

“ Let us analyse a few more charts. 


Example: 1.Kumba-Lagna; Mars in 2, Sun with Mercury 
in 3, Venus in 4, Kethu in 6, Moon in 7, Jupiter in 8, Saturn in 10 
and Rahu in 12. Rahu is posited in the 12th, which is aspected by 
Jupiter, Saturn and Kethu. The native thus became a leader and 
social worker helping others. 

Example: 2. Lagna Mithuna, Jupiter (exalted) in 2; Kethu 
with Moon in 3, Saturn (exalted) in 5, Mercury, Venus and Mars in 
8th, Sun and Rahu in 9th. 

The 12th lord Venus is posited in the 8th along with the lord 
of Ascendent (Mercury) and the 6th and 11th lord Mars. The 12th 
lord Venus and an exalted Jupiter aspect each other. Jupiter is the 
10th lord and the significator of spiritual matters. Position of Venus 
in 8 and the position of 7th lord (Jupiter) in the 8 to the 7th made 
the native unfit for a married life, but done to the significators of 
Spiritual matters aspecting one another (Saturn, exalted aspecting 
and exalted Jupiter and Jupiter aspecting the 12th lord posited in 
Saturn's with the Ascendent lord), the native became a sage with 
divine wisdom. Also, due to the position of the 12th lord in the un- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 135 
favourable 8, along with the lord of ascendent and a very malefic 
Mars the native had to suffer imprisonment also. 

Example 3: Ascendent Thula; Sun, Mercury And Kethu in 
the Ist house; Mars in 4th (exalted) Jupiter in the 6th, Rahu in the 
7th; Venus and Moon in llth and Saturn in the 12th. 

This nativity is that ofa Sanyasi. Note the position of the Sth 
lord Saturn in 12 and is aspected by Jupiter occupying own house 
which is a sign of Moksha (the signs kataka, Vrischika and Meena 
are signs of Moksha). The 12th lord is also the lord of the 9th (mer- 
cury andiscombined with the significator ofsoul Sun. Further the 
Ascendent lord Venus is in Parivarthana with the Aatmakaaaka 
(Sun). 

We have now completed the analysis of the 12 houses with 
the nativity showing only the position of the planets-that is without 
the exact longitudinal positions within exact signs. Yet we have 
been able to predict quite a lot about the native in a general way 
This is certainly not sufficient. We have, in our discussion come 
across several difficulties to predict exactly However, with the lon- 
gitude of planets, yogas, relations of planets to asterism, and other 
indications we would become exact and precise in our prediction. 
This would definitely demand in addition to experience and knowl- 
edge, a good lot of divinity which can be" achieved only through 
constant effort and ‘Saadhana’, Not only for Astrology, but for every 
branch of knowledge, that ‘gift’ is essential and it can be gained by 
anyone in due course by meditation, concentration and continuous 
dedicated effort and involvement. 


Now go through all the previous units again and make sure 
that you have become an Astrologer. And we are giving below a 
horoscope for you to analyse yourself. find out the relations and 
factors characteristic ofthechart. A few facts about the native are 
given for guidance. These are to be actually derived by you from the 
chart. 


136 A Course in Indian Astrology 

1. The native was lavish and spent a lot for the sake of his 
dependants (12th house). 

2. Though he enjoyed his bedmate for some time in due course 
the Sayanasukha diminished (12th house). 

3. Among the 6 brothers 2 died. 

4. He was an industriahst and had a number of factories, con- 
cerned with Automobiles. 

5. His father, starting from a humble life gradually rose to be 
the owner of a big factory His father died in the Jupiter's period 
and Venus sub-period of the native. 

6. The native went abroad in the Jupiter's period and Jupi- 
ter's sub-period for education. 

7. The marriage of the native took place during Jupiter's pe- 
xiod and Saturn's sub-period. His wife was beautiful and intelli- 
gent. The married life was long and happy. 

8 The native was of average life-span and died in his Saturn- 
Dasa, Rahu's sub-period. 


Lords of Constellations 
N akshatraadhipas 


UNIT 34 


Stars in Judgement of the Houses and 
Analysis of Nativities. 


So far we have discussed the general rules and described their 
applications without using one important factor which has a chief 
role to play, i.e.. the influence of the star-lords. This has been pur- 
posely avoided for two reasons. Firstly, it was to spare the beginner 
from a possible confusion. Secondly, in traditional Astrology this 
aspect, though recognised, is not very popular. However, today the 
lords of stars and the stellar positions of each planet are given an 


A Course in Indian Astrology 137 
important place, like the lords of houses, the significators etc. This 
branch of Astrology is known as stellar Astrology about which we 
will discuss only in an elementary way. Detailed study is outside 
the scope of this course and those who want to learn more about it 
are advised to consult suitable books on the subject. 

Before you begin to learn this unit it is desirable to revise 
Unit 4, where subdivision of the zodiac into 27 asterisms and the 
angular spans (longitudinal width ofeach austerism has been given. 
As described in unit 4 stars are considered fixed in the heavens and 
the sole planetary bell Zodiac is divided into 27 asterisms and the 
angular span. (longitudinal width of each asterism has been given. 
As described in unit 4 stars are considered fixed in the heavens, 
and thesole planetary belt Zodiac is divided into 27 equal angular 
zones sections called constellation or Nakshathra occupied by each 
star. In this way each star zone or constellation would be 360/27 = 
13° 20' (13 degree 20 minutes) degree is called Bhaaga and minute, 
Kala which is 1/60 of adegree, 60 ofa minute, or Kalais a second 
or Vikala so that. 


60 Vikala = 1 Kala 
60 Kala (Minute) = 1 Bhaaga (Degree. 

These units, rninute and second are not to be confused with 
the units of time with the same names. Sometimes the confusion is 
avoided by describing degree, rninute and second describing angles 
as degree of arc, minute of arc and second or arc. Minute is indi- 
cated by a single prime (‘) and second by double prime ("). 

To have reference to direction, the time (imaginary) between 
the earth and the distant star Aswini (Arietus - star 3) is taken as 
the stating point, Measuring 13° 20' is named by the constellation 
Bharani (Arietis a Mus-3) and so on. Each successive zone is named 
after the star or group of stars located in the direction ofthat zone. 
So a star represents a particular angular sector of the zodiac and 
not the twinkling objects as understood in daily use. The zodiac is 
also divided into 12 sectors of 30° span and each such sector or sign 
(Rasi) is governed by one ofthe seven planets. The signs are named 
from Mesha to Meena which we have already learnt. The position 
ofeach planet at the time ofbirth or the distribution of the planets 
in the sign is represented in the birth chart, as already described. 


Usually the star at birth means the zone ofthe star in which 
Moon is posited at birth. However, for each planet there is a stellar 
position, like its position in the sign which can be found from the 
exact, longitude of theplanet (See Unit 4). Aswathi is within 13 20' 
to 26 40’ and so on. Therefore at the time ofbirth each planet canbe 


138 A Course in Indian Astrology 
said to be posited in a particular star. For instance, if the longitude 
of the Sunis 15° in Vrishabha (=45°), we can say that Sunis in the 
zone of the star Rohini (40° - 53* 20'). In the same way we can find 
the constellation or star zone occupied by each planet, from the 
exact longitude of the planet. Sonow you will be able to distinguish 
the object star used in common usage (the twinkling object) and the 
star in Astrology, the zone measuring 13° 20' where that star is 
posited. 

The 27 stellar zones are governed by all the 9 planets in the 
sequence given on Unit 4. Starting from Aswini each star is gov- 
erned by the planets Kethu, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupit- 
er, Saturn and Mercury. The next set of 9 stars are governedby the 
planets in the same order, governing repeating thrice for each planet. 
This is natural since there are 27 stars and 9 planets. 

The first set of 9 stars Aswini to Aaslesha are distributed in 
the first 120 degrees of the zodiac-over the four signs Mesha to 
. Kataka. There will be therefore 2 V* (=9/4) stars in each sign. (learn 
the stars in each sign from the table m Unit 4). The next set of 9 
stars are distributed over the 2nd 120 sector of the zodiac (120" - 
240" ), i.e.. in the signs Simha to Vrischika. The 3rd sector is from 
Dhanus to Meena. In each sector a planet would be having a star 
governedby it, so that each planet would be riding over these zones 
of thezodiac each 13 20 in span. Thus Kethu is the lord of the stars 
Aswini, Magha and Moola 0" - 13°- 20° - 133° - 20', 240" - 253" - 20". 
(See table on unit 4). 

To sum up each planet governs (a) certain signs (two signs 
except for Sun and Moon which govern only one sign each and (b) 
three stars, i.e.: stellar zones (these zones are separated by 120°) 
each 13" 20'. 

Depending on the position of each planet (longitude) we de- 
scribe that the planet is occupying the particular star. And since 
each star is controlled or governed by a planet, we can see that each 
planet would be occupying the star of a planet (sometimes its own 
star). 

Actually we have already familiarised with the method of find- 
ing the star-lard of the Moon, in calculating the Dasa at birth. (See 
Unit 19). Why should we restrict this to the Moon only ? Each planet 
would be occupying star and that star is governed by a planet. Thus 
pew relations would be obtained between planets. Such a system, 
stellar position of certain planets is used in prasna but it is not very 
common in traditional Horoscope analysis. This is a comparatively 
new extension of the Hindu predictive astrology. Experienced As- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 139 
trologers definitely say that the star-lords are also equally impor- 
tant as the sign lords. A sign is 30" in span while a star in only 13’ 
20' in span, so that the predictions would be more exact. For in- 
stance, suppose in a horoscope Sun is occupying the sign Mesha 
Clearly the sign-lord is Mars. We say that Sun is posited in the sign 
of Mars. But suppose the birth chart corresponds to about 15th of 
the month Mesha. So that the Sun would be in the middle of the 
sign Mesha i.e.. 15" . This means that ofthe 3 zones of Mesha the 
first 13° 20' is the star Aswini the next 13° 20' is the star Bharani 
and the remaining 3° 20' a quarter of the stellar zone in Krithika. 
Now as the Sun is posited 15' from the beginning of Mesha, clearly 
Sunis occupying the asterism Bharani ? Whichplanet governs Bha- 
rani ? Venus. So Sunand Venus are related. We say that sun occu- 
pies the star of Venus. It is also described by stating that the star 
lord of the Sun is Venus. 


In fact Sun in this casawould give the indications of Venus to 
the native. This is very important in predictions. In fact predictions 
without a consideration of the star-lords of each planet is likely to 
go wrong or at least is lacking in exactness. 

One more practical example will be considered here. Here is 
a nativity chart. 


The Birth-star (i.e.. the star occupied by the Moon) is Makha 
4th quarter. Makha is ruled by Kethu. Hence not only that Moon 
and Kethu are in conjunction, Moon is posited but in Kethu’s star. 
The longitude ofthe Moon is 12 1' in Simha. The sign Si#mha corre- 
sponds to Magna (O"- 13 20' in Simha), Poorvaphalguni (13° 20' to 
26" 40' in Simha). And the First Quarter of Utharaphalguni (26" 40' 
to 30" in Simha). Each 13" 20' ofa Star is divided into 4 quarters 
(paada) of 3 20' span so that each sign would include 9 quarters of 2 


140 A Course in Indian Astrology 
1/4 stars Kethu is posited at 29° 46' in Simha and this corresponds 
to the first quarter of Utharaphalguni, which is governed by Sun. 
Thus Kethu in this horoscope would give the results which the Sun 
promises to confer to the native. 

The longitude of the Sun is 21° 28' in Makara and reference 
to Unit 4 would tell you that Sun is posited in Sravana, Nakshathra 
governed by the Moon (Unit 4). Thus Sun is related to Moon in 2 
ways 1). Moon occupied Sun's sign 2). Sun occupied Moon's star. 

In the same way the star-lords (Nakshathraadhipa) of each 
planet and of the Ascendent can be obtained. 

But one would require the exact longitude (sphuta) of each 
planet which may be calculated from the ahnanac (Panchaanga) or 
better using and Ephemeris. This procedure will be described in 
later Units. 

Before we conclude this Unit it is necessary for you to know 
that the zodiac is subdivided in several ways - signs, stars, hoaraas 
(15 ), decancteys (draekkans, 10 ) and so on. These subdivisions are 
governed by each planet as per definite rules We have so far dis- 
cussed 2 types of subdivision and the rest would be taken up later 
at the appropriate time. 

Stellar Astrology, we leave at this stage and we have now to 
proceed to understand the characteristics of the planets and signs 
in greater detail. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 14] 


The Planets (Grahaas) 
Unit 35 


* By studying the previous units we have gained some general 
«knowledge regarding the houses and the planets However, we must 
now learn about the planets in detail and about their exact 
longitudes. 

For all astrological matters - horoscopy, predictions, horary 
astrology (prasna), election of time (Muhoortham) etc. the basic en- 
tities are the planets, stars, signs and houses. While planets are 
concrete objects (except Rahu and Kethu) the houses and the signs 
are abstract concepts. The stars are the imaginary zones occupied 
by the stars and are to be termed as constellations. 

Stars are fixed in space (relatively) while the planets are in 
continuous motion. The signs are sections on the path of the plan- 
ets. Though it is said that the stars also are not static celestial ob- 
jects, astrologically we treat them as fixed. The thin ribbon-like el- 
liptical strip of space (imaginary) around and through which the 
plants move is what we call the zodiac. And this zodiac is divided 
into 12 signs (Rasi) and 12 houses (Bhaavas). 

Everything on the earth is related to the four basic astrologi- 
cal items - signs, stars, planets and houses. Itis possible to predict 
about the birds and animals or.trees and vegetables also. But As- 
trology is operating today with the limited aims of judging human 
beings and of helping him by analysis of the astrological pattern 
and enabling him to lead a comfortable and meaningful life. 

When there are myriads of stars and other celestial bodies 
decorating the cosmic space, how is that only 27 stars (for astrologi- 
cal purposes one more star -Abhijit- is sometimes considered) seven 
planets and two nodes are taken into consideration in Astrology ? 
And Why ? We cannot answer these questions. We would join you 
in the endeavour to get these and other questions answered. For 
this purpose one has to learn more about astrology and practise it. 
If one decides that he would learn Astrology only after such ques- 


142 A Course in Indian Astrology 
tions are answered, the situation is as foolish as of theperson who 
decides that he would start learning to swim only after measuring 
the depth of the oceans. 

All the authoritative works on Astrology have been written 
in Sanskrit and that too as sloakas learned by heart and could be in 
a very compact form so that the dictums can readily be (Verses) 
recalled whenever necessary. Hence for each planet a number of 
synonyms are found to facilitate composing of poetry. As you would 
now be reading some of such original books, the synonyms of the 
planets are given below: 

1. Sun:Haeli, Bhaanu, Chandaamsu, Ravi, Bhaaskara, 
Ahaskara, Thapana, Dinakrut, Poosha, Aurna, Arkka, Soorya, Ina, 
Divaakara, Tharani, (Majority of the above words mean that the 
Sun is the abode of light or heat rays). 

2.Moon:Soama, Seetharasmi, Seethagu, Seethaamsu, Mruga 
anka, Kalaesa, Udupa, Udupathi, Indu, Chandra, sasi, Sasaanka, 
(Majority of the words mean that the Moon has cool rays). 

3. Mars: Aaara,Mangala, Vakra Aagnaeya, Kuja, Bhoo sutha, 
Bhoomiputhra, Bhowma Maahaeya, Kroora, Loahithaanga, 
Rudhira, Angaaraka, Kshithija, Prathi, veesutha (Majority of words 
mean that the Mars is the son of the earth). 

4, Mercury: Budha, Vith, Jna, Sowmya, Boadhana, Chan- 
dra sutha, Chandrasoonu, Chaandri, Saantha, Syaamagaathra, 
Vidwaan, Haema, Sasija, Indusoonu (Majority of the words mean 
that the Mercury is the lord of Scholarship and son of moon). 

5. Jupiter: Guru, Bruhaspathi, Jeeva, Angiras, Daevaguru, 
Prasaantha, Eedya, Vandya, Manthri, Vaachaspathi, Vaakpathi, 
Suraa chaarya, Aarya, Daevaedya, Suraguru, Amaraedya (mean- 
ing that Jupiter is the preceptor of Devas and the lord of speech). 

6. Venus: Sukra, Bhrugu, Bhaargava, Bhrugustha, Ushanus, 
Kavi, Daithyaguru, Daanavaedya, Kaavya, Sitha, Asura guru 
(meaning that the Venus is the preceptor of Asuraas Demons). 

7.Saturn: Sani, Manda, Pangu, Yama, Kona, Chayasoonu, 
Chayaputhra, Asitha, Neela, Kroora, Kapilaksha, Deergha, 
Dharaneesutha, Arkaputhra, Arkki, Inasoonu, (meaning the son of 
Sun, slow moving and black) 

8. Rahu: Tamas, Asura, Agu, Saimhikaeya, Svarbhaanu, 
Sarpa; Phani. 

9.Ketu: Sikhi, Dwaja, Athipaadi. 

Each planet has its own function and unpact. These 
Characteristics of the planets are always to be remembered for pre- 
diction. For convenience these are given below ina tabular form for 


A Course in Indian Astrology 143 
quick reference. However, one cannot always refer to the table dur- 
ing prediction, especially in the presence of the customer, so by 
constant reference the functions and indications of each planet 
should be learnt by heart. Practice alone will make this possible. In 
fact a better method to remember these is by means of small verses 
and.this technique was followed by the great sages and masters. If 
you have at least elementary knowledge of Sanskrit -infact most of 
us do have this- it is advised to learn the original sloakas from stand- 
ard books like “Varaahamihira’s Bruhatjaathaka", "Paraasara's 
Bruhut Paraasara Hoara, Prasnamaarga, Jaathakaadaesa, 
Saraavali, Jathaka parijatha" etc. 


A detailed table of characteristics of all the planets has been 
provided in the next pages. 


Table of Characteristics of Grahaas (Planets) 


Signification/ Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Yenus Saturn RahwKethu 
Charuacter/ : 
Function! 
Lordship 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8/9 
1.Caste Kshatriya Vaisya Kshatriya Vaisya Brahmin Brahmin Soodra Chandala & 
others, 
2.Clour Red-black Milkwhite Red Darkgreen Yellow Vichitra Black Blue/Blue 
: (mixed) (blue) 

3. Deity Agni(fire) Jala Shan- Vishnu Indra Indraani Brahma Serpants/ 

(Devatha) (water) mukha_, : Ganepathy 
4.Directions East Northwest South North Northeast Southeast West Southwest/ 

: Southwest 
5.Nature Malefic Benefic Malefic Benefic Benefic Benefic Malefic Malefie/ 
{in bright half) (but malefic : malefic 

ne Malefic in conjunction : - : 

. (in_dark-half) ____with malefic) ‘- 
6. Body Bone Blood Marrow Skin Fat Virility Veins -/- 


A course in Astrology /144 


Signification/ Sun Moon Murs Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn RahbufKethu 
Character! 


Functions 
Lordship . - 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8/9 
7.Metal Copper Bronze Copper and Brass Gold Silver | Iron Lead/- 
; uncommon 
metals are 
&.Gems Ruby Pearl Coral Emerald Pushyarag Diamond Saphire Gomethaka 
(marathaka) Vaidoorva 
‘9.Lordship Place af Water Fireplaces’ Playground Treasury Bedroom. Bushes Anthills 
of places worship . ‘ Mines and snake- 
Temple deserts its 
10, Dress Red silk White Read and © Blacksilkk Yellow Silk Multi Multi 
silk mixed col- Silk coloured coloured 
“—  oured cloth — - cloth wornaut 
: rags 
11.Season Greeshma Varsha Greeshma Sarat Haemantha Vasantha Sisira 
(Summer) (Rain) - Summer (Autumn) (Winter) (Spring) - (Winter) 
12.Taste Pungent Saline Bitter Mixed Sweet Sour’ Kashayu 
13.Mode Up Normal Up Slightly Normal Straight Down Down 
of aspects . angular sigs (horizonta)) 
(Kataksham) . an 


A course in Astrology / 145 


Signification/ Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn RahwKethu 
Character! : ; ; : ‘ : 


Function/ 
Lordship 
1 2 3 ae 5 6 7 3/9 
14.Guna ‘Sathva Sathva Tamas Rajas Sathva Rajas Tamas Tamas 
(nature) ; eer 

15.Bhootha Fire Water Fire Earth Space Water Air 

thathva (Aukausa) Ao’ 
pores (171951) ee ae ee Ee ee Seep S 
16.Gender Masculine Feminine Masculine Euunch Masculine Feminime Euunch 
17.Time Noon Forenoon Noon Morning Morning Forenpon Dusk 
18.Prakrithi Pittha Vaatha pittha Vaatha Kapha Vaatha Vaatha 

(bile) kapha pittha kapha 

19.Shape Square Circular Square Sphere Sphere Big Long 
20.Shape Medium Round ~~ Lowheight Medium Bulky Splendid _. Thin-tall_. 

of bod ewth lean 
21.Body ' Low Inert Low High High Inert Low 

power a 
22.Eyes Honey- Lotus Yellow Reddish Yellow Lotus Yellow 

caloured like Like 
23.Hair Little Curly light brown Black Yellowish Nice and Hard Old (100) 
es ; : bo 

24.Age Old (50) Old (70) Young boy Adolscent Middle (80) Young (16) Old{100) Old (100) 


A course in Astrology / 146 


Signification/ Sun Moon Mars Mercury dupiter Venus Saturn Rahu/Kethu 
Character/ 


Function 
Lordship 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8/9 
25.Control Soul, body Mind Strength Speech Intelligence Intelligence Comfort philosophic 
on __(vitality) (wisdom) (wisdom) making 
26.Character Valourous Intelligent. Haughty Humourous Truthful Humourous 
authoritarian hot tempered lavish lavish truthful Hinder a 
27.Longe- 100 years 70 yrs 16 yrs 20 yrs 30 yrs 16 yrs 100 yrs 
vity 
28.Rising By hinder By the head Hinder Head By both Head Hinder Hinder 
mode (prushto- (seershodaya) headand ; 
part duya) back j btn Sa ote 
29.Swaroope Bird Reptile Quadruped Bird Biped - Biped Quadruped 
30.Moving Forést Water . Forest Villages Temple Water Forests Forests 
place mounteins mountains mountains mountsuins 
31.Mobility Static Mobile Mobile Mobile Static Mobile Static static 
32.Time to 1 month 2% days 1%month 1 month 1 year 1 month 2% years 18 months 
cross a sipn ; . . 
$3.The limb Head to Neck to stomach Arms and waist to Testicle knees to 
ofkaala face heart to back legs ‘thighs ankles — 
purusha . : 


A course in Astrology /147 


Signification/ Sun Moon Mars —~ Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rehu/Kethu 
Character/ os 


Funetion/ 
Lordship 
1 ; 2 3 4 > ° 6 7. 8/9 
34.Senses Roopam Tuste Roopam Smell Voice Taste Touch : 
35,.Doshas Pittha Vomiting Pittha Fever Vaatha Vauthn Vaatha 
ne vaatha kapham kapha 
kapha : Fear 

36.Cuuse Fire "Water Fire Cald Stomach Hiccough Hunger 

of death . disease 
37.Period When Towards Entry to Always Middle Middle End of 

efconfer- entering the end the sign of sign of sign sign 

ing the a sign of the : 

effect sign 
38.Power Noon Begining End Morning Always Midnight. End of 

fultime of night of day day 
39.Exalta- Mesha Vrisha Makara Kanya Kataka Meena Tula Vrisha/ 

tion ~ : : vrischika 
40.Debili- Tula Vrischika Kataka Meena Makara Kanya Mesha Vrischika/ 

tation . ; ; Vrishabha 

(Neech) : 
41.Maximum 10° Mesha 3° Vrisha 28° Makara 15° Kanya 5° Kataka 27° Kanya 20° Tula : 

exaltation 


A course in Astrology / 148 


Signification/ Sun . Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rehu/Kethu 
Charecter/ ; 


Function! 
Loritslip 
1 2 3 4 5 6. 7 8/9 
42.Maximum 10° Tula 3° Vrischika 28° Kataka 15°Meena 5° Makara 27° Kanya 20° Mesha 
debilitation : . 
43.0wn Simha Kataka Mesha Mithuna Dhanu Vrisha Makara Kanyae/ 
sign Vrischika’ | Kanya Meena Tula Kumbha Meena 
44.Moola 0—20° 3-30° Q-12° 15-25° 0—10° 0-5° 0—20° 
thrikona Simha Vrisha Mesha ~ Kanya Dhanu Tula Kumbha 
45 nature Thick New Burnt. Wet Neither Strong Old 
of cloths , new not 
old 
46.Friend Moon, Sun, — Sun, Moon Sun, Sun, Moon Mercury Mercury Mercury! 
ship Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Mars Saturn Venus Venus/Rahu 
Jupiter Rahu Rahu 
47.Enmity Venus, Sat Rahu Mercury Moon Mercury Sun, Moon Sun, Moon Sun/Moon 
Rahu Rahu Venus Mars Mars 
48.Neut- Mercury Mars,Jupiter Ven, Sat Mars, Saturn Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter = 
rality Venus,sat Jupiter Mars 
Saturn 
49. Fruit - 2nd house 4th house 5Sthhouse’ 6th house 7th house 
less house : 


A course in Astrology / 149 


150 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Sun(Ravi) 


UNIT - 36 


Sun is the soul of Kalapurush. (The Time Personified). If, in 
allegory the time is considered as Man the Sun is his soul. This 
indicates that as without soul there is no existence of Man so also 
there is no time without Sun. In the fixed space (Dik-directions) it 
is the Sun who gives life to all beings. In Astrological parlance Sun 
is the centre of all activities. In the zodiac all planets, except Sun 
are continuously revolving around Sun, 

The distance at which each planet is placed from the Sun and 
the time taken by each planet to complete the revolution is given 
below: 


Planet Distance from—~- Time 
taken to —? Sun Km. 
complete a revo- lution 
Mercury 576 lakhs 88 days 
Venus 1075.2 lakhs 225 days 
Earth 1498 lakhs 365 days 

(about) 
Moon 27 days 

hrs. 45 min. 
Mars 2256 lakhs 687 days 
Jupiter i 7742 lakhs 4332 days 

(12 yrs. 

roughly) 
Saturn 141952 lakhs 10751 days 

(30 yrs.) 


Form this it is to be deduced that out of the planets Mercury 
is nearest to Sun and Saturn is the farthest. The lordships of plan- 
ets are given on this basis. Kanya is near to Simha. Mercury is the 
lord of Kanya and Midhuna. The other lordships are also given on 


A Course in Indian Astrology 15i 
this basis i.c.. Venus is next to Mercury, Mars is next to Venus, 


Jupiter is next to Mars and Saturn is the farthest. Please refer to 
the chart given here, 


Jupiter 


Lordship 04 


Houses 


Why is it in Astrology considered that the Sun is revolving 
around the earth and the earth is static while it is an approved fact 
that the earth is revolving around the Sun like other planets. This 
shift of movement of the earth on the Sun is only for the sake of 
convenience for calculating the longitude ofthe sun. Instead of son 
the earth is considered as stationary and the Sun moving. Lf and 
when we observe from the revolving globe it appears that we are 
static and things around us are revolving. You also might have 
experienced that whenyou travel in a train, or plain it will appear 
that the outside world is moving fast and you are static. But this 
does not make any difference in the calculation of speed. The earth 
revolves around the Sun form west to east and it appears that the 
Sun is moving from east to west. The earth takes 365 days 8 hrs. 
and 45 min. to finish one revolution around the Sun. 


The Modern Astronomy has unearthed many physical quali- 
ties of the Sun like its origin, size, structure, formation, its relation 
with nature, the energy, different gases it contains etc. But modern 
researchers have not approached the study of Sun on the lines As- 
trology has done. In due course it is presumed that Astronomers 
also will direct their research in the lines adopted by Astrology. 

This is because they lack the spiritualistic approach to the 
study of Astronomy. The same approach is made by the modern 
researchers of medicine also. They study only the Anatomy and 
physiology and not the soul, mind combination. This is separately 
dealt in the philosophical studies. Astronomy is handling only the 
soulless universe as the medicine handles the soulless body Our 
seers have thoroughly analysed the impact the Sun is making on 


152 A Course in Indian Astrology 
the animal life as a whole andonly on that basis extolled the Sun as 
the soul, father, eye, Valour King and other life-giving forces. This 
analysis they were able to make with their sixth sense 
(Gnanadrushti) attained by continuous penance and yogavidya. In 
brief all the departed souls enter the abode of Sun and from there 
only they start their reincarnation (pumarjanma) and enter the womb 
of mother and give life to the combined ovum and sperm at the time 
of fertilisation. They bring with them all the accumulated instincts 
from the previous birth. After shedding the mortal remains at the 
time of death the same soul enters the Sun and remains there. This 
is the basic tenet of Astrology about the cycle of life. 


The Modern historians of Science and Technology claim that 
it was Galileo who established the theory of revolution of earth, in 
the 16th century. But pretty earlier to this in the Sth century itself 
Aryabhata the great Indian Astronomer has established the truth 
that the earth is revolving around the Sun and the Moon is revolv- 
ing around the earth. He has given a beautiful example also. The 
mother is revolving around the temple and the daughter revolving 
around the mother. What a beautiful imagination. 


In Astrology all the human experiences are assigned to dif- 
ferent planets. And the following human experiences are assigned 
to Sun. In other words Sun will confer or unfold these experiences 
to men at appropriate time (during his periods and sub periods). 
The different resource books enumerate them in the following or- 
der. 

1.Jataka Paarijaatha: Soul, Valour, Mountain, Lordship, 
Father, Immunity, Virtue.; 

2. Saaravali: Tiger, Lion, Mountain, Woollen cloths, Gold, 
Poisoning Medicine, King, Foreigner, Sea, Pearl, Jungle, Wood, 
Manthra (hymn). 

3. Bruhath Parasara Hora: Kingdom, Rule, Coral, Crim- 
son, Colour, Manikya stone, Hunting, Jungle, Kshathriya nature. 

4. Manasagari: The soul Force, Father. 

5. Utharakaalaamrutha: Soul, Power, Wickedness, Fort, 
Strength, Heat, Fire, Siva worship, Courage, Thorny trees, Gov- 
ernment, Astringent taste, Old age, Cattle, Animals, Land, Father, 
Taste, Self-confidence, Upward fight, Coward, Mother, The worm 
of death, Square shape, Bone, Adventure, Grass, Effort, Jungle, 
Eyes, Roaming in the Jungle, King, Exile, Litigation, Bile, Pen- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 153 
auce, Eye diseases, Fuel, Purity of mind, Superiority, Cure of dis- 
eases, Decoration, Sourashtra country, Diseases affecting the head, 
Pearl, Dwarf, East, Copper, Blood, Crimson colour, The stone in the 
ring, Service to humanity, River bank, Face, Anger, Defeat of the 
enemy truth, Enemy, Rope. 

When Sun is the benefic position in the Horoscope he will 
confer during his period and sub periods the good aspect of the above 
items. Ifhe is malefic in the horoscope the bad aspects will be expe- 
rienced. So before Judging the effects it must be ascertained whether 
the planet is benefic or malefic for the native. Only after that one 
should predict the behaviour of the planets. 

Modern Astrologers assign the following items also to be con- 
ferred by Sun. 

Manager, Foremen, Head of office, Administrative officer, 
Boss, Father, Husband, Mayor, Magistrate, Director, Corporation 
Commissioner, Palace, Public hall, Theatre, Court, Drama hall, 
Exhibition celebrating, Meeting, Mansions, Jewellery, Ophthalmol- 
ogy, Anatomy, X-Ray, Platinum, Radium, Helium, Navigation, Of 
ficial language, Secretariat, Assembly, Governor, Kshathriya caste, 
Bone, Course cloth, Siva temple, Sparse hair, Bilious nature, Yel- 
lowish eyes, Protruded veins, Self-confidence, Rheumatic Diseasés, 
Obstinacy, Out spokenness, Medical Education, Capacity to influ- 
ence People, domination, Helping attitude, Defeating the enemy, 
Rude talk, Selflessness, Extensive knowledge, Firm disposition, Far- 
sightedness, Open heartedness, Social promotion 


Diseases connected with Sun 


If the Sun is a malefic in a horoscope or is posited in had 
houses he confers the following diseases. Fever, Consumption, Sun- 
stroke, heat all over the body Diarrhoea heart diseases, Eye dis- 
eases, Wrath of God Siva, Skin diseases, Meningitis, Wound, Weap- 
ons, poisoning, Loss of speech ability, Diseases contracted from la- 
dies, Typhoid, Snake poison, Epilepsy, Low blood pressure, High 
blood pressure, Haemorrhage. 


Occupations connected with Sun 


IfSunis strong and benefic in the horoscope one gets a perma- 
nent job- And usually the institutions will be Government, Banks, 
Public undertakings. He will deal in articles of orange colour, Cop 
per, Gold, Wheat, Medicine, Chemicals. 


154 A Course in Indian Astrology 

When Sunis Associated or connected with Mercury and Moon 
he will deal in cloth of orange or red colour. If Sun associates with 
Mars and Mercury he will work in the Military engineering depart- 
ment, or Printing press. On association with Saturn he will deal in 
hairs of animals. In the horoscope of acontractor collecting human 
hair from the temples the star Karthika had the aspects of Sani. 
(Karthika lord is Sun). In the horoscopes of Doctors by observing 
the association of Sun and other planets their specialisation can be 
ascertained. 


ra Sun/Jupiter = Ability in general Treatment 
Sun/Mars = Surgical skill 
Sun/Mars/Saturn = Barber 
Sun/Venus/Jupiter = Gynaecology 
Sun/Venus/Jupiter/Mars= Surgeon in Gynaecology 

' Sun/Saturn = Skin specialist 
Sun/Saturn = Dental doctor 


If Sun is posited in the following signs the natives are likely 
to do the following professions. 
1. Mesha - Organiser, Wandering, Foreman, Dealer in cop 
per, Coral, Woollen cloth 
2. Vrisha - Medicine, Perfumes, Music, Grass, Wood, Agri 
culture, Dance, Theatre. 
3. Midhuna - Teacher, Jewels, Office, Writing, Editing, Corres 


pondence. 

4. Kataka  - Electricity, Ophthalmology. 

5. Simha - Dealer in gems, Cashier, Administrator, Stay 
in Jungle. 


6. Kanya - Manager, Painter, Book writing, Gold plating, 
Public Work.. 
7. Tula - Civil supplies, Alcohol, Goldsmith, Judiciary, 
Government, Representation, 
8. Vrischika - Store, Sandal, Red sandal, Silk, Weapon, poi 
son treatment. 
9. Dhanu - Gold, Radium, Judge, Writer, Religious Head, 
Lawyer, People's representation. 
10. Makara - Municipality, Assembly, Panchayath, 
11. Kumbha-Rope, Utensil, Wicked deeds. 
12. Meena - Pearl, Exhibition, X-Ray, 
Other general informations about Sun: 
Place - Temple, 
Metal, Copper 
Season Summer, entering the Rasi 10th Bhava. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 155 


Bala Utharayana 

God Siva, Fire. 

Day Sunday 

Direction East 

Time Sun hora 

Caste Kshathriya 
Exaltation Mesha (10) 
Human limb Soul 

Debilitation Tula (10) 

House First House 
Lordship Simha 

Relation Father 

Aspect 7th sign 

Colour Crimson (Orange) 
Friends Moon, Mars, Jupiter 
Body Eye bone, Bone marrow 
Measure Square 

Position King, Head 
Places Jungle, Mountain 
Cloth Red, Coarse 

Foes Venus, Saturn 
Neutral Mercury 

Bhutha Thejas 

Guna Rajoguna 

Dosha Pitha 

Prakruthi Pitha Prakuthi 


These are the general characteristics of Sun. But in analys- 
ing a horoscope and predicting, the following points are also to be 


discussed. 


1. Position in Rasi, 2.Position in Bhava, 3.Nature ofthat Rasi 


and Bhava, 4. Strength oftheplanet, 5. Aspects falling on the planet, 
6. Lordship of Bhavas, 7. Conjunction with other planets, 8.The 
periods and sub periods, 9The signification of the planet and Bhava. 

These things we are skipping and can be dealt n detail later. 

After this we shall study the results of Sun when posited in 
different Rasis (signs) and Bhavas (houses). 

General results that will be experienced by the Native in Ravi 
Dasa. 

1. When the Sun has strength. (About the strength of the 
planets and houses we will study in later units). 

The Native will get connection with forest, medicine, travel 
poisoning, difficulties, mountain, ivory, leather, fire, cruel deeds, 


156 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Governmental affairs, battle, repeated actions, fame, valour, supe- 
riority, leadership, success, (That is if Sun is in a favourable posi- 
tion in the horoscope during the 'Ravi Dasa' (Sun's Period) the na- 
tives experiences will be connected with the above items. 

2.When the Sun has no strength. 

Trouble form servants, quarrel, diseases to relations, fear, 
eye diseases, wounds, from weapons, fear for fire, displeasure from 
Government, difficulties for son and wife, difficulties for relatives, 
inclination towards bad deeds, hunger and thirst, heart diseases, 
bilious diseases. [That is if the Sun is weak in the horoscope the 
above bad experiences will be felt by the native in the Sun's period]. 

3. When the Sun is at maximum exaltation Le. at 10° in 
Mesha. 

In the Sun's period good experience connected to with wealth, 
wife children, fame, valour, favour from fruitful trips, and goad com- 
pany will be experienced. 

4. When the Sun is in exaltation. 

In the Sun's period good experiences connected ta with wealth, 
wife, children, fame, valour, favour from Government sensual pleas- 
ure, Vehicular comfort, cordial reception, mutual enmity. 

5. When the Ravi is in Moolathrikona. 

Pleasing experiences form Agriculture, wealth, wife, children, 
relation, further recognition from Government, possession of Vehi- 
cles, political success, remedy to grievances etc, will be obtained. 

6.When Sun is in his own sign, 

Pleasant experiences from relations, benefit form Agriculture, 
getting money, fame, education, Government honour, scholarship. 

7.When the Sun is in the enemy's sign. 

Sorrow, loss of wife, son and wealth, displeasure of the Govern- 
ment, fear from fire,, litigation, difference of.opinion from elders 
like parents, diseases af the eye, heart diseases, worm troubles, fall 
form the favour of people. 

8. When the Sun ig in the friend's sign. 

Respect and love form servants, father, Government, children, 
meeting with relatives acquiring cloths, vehicles, ornaments etc. 

9.When Sun is in conjunction with debilitated plan- 
ets. 

Indulging in bad deeds, nail diseases mean mentality, diffi- 
culties caused by children, business disrespect. 

10. When the Sun is in conjunction with exalted plan- 
ets. 

Mental satisfaction, pilgrimage, worship, constructing tern- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 157 
ples, digging wells, reading scriptures and sacred texts. 

11.When Sun is in conjunction with malefic planets. 

Mental agony due to bad deeds, unclean food, dirty clothes, 
bad livelihaad, not getting the money in time. 

12.When Sun is in conjunction with benefic planets. 

Gain form earth garments, ornaments, meeting with friends 
and relatives, participation in auspicious functions, picnic etc. 

¢13. When the Sun gets aspect of benefic planets. 

Respects because of scholarship, happy experiences from chil- 
dren and wife handsomeness, pleasurable experiences, Valour, hap- 
piness form parents and Government recognition. 

14. When the Sun is aspected by malefics. 

Mental worry, anxiety about parents, difficulty for wife and 
children, fear from thieves, fire, punishment, fine etc. 

Along with this different experiences canbe experienced when 
the Sun is in Kendra Thrikona, Navamsa and other Vargas, 
Drekkana, in each sign, in each Bhava". These things you may learn 
from standard treatises. 


The Sign Simha (Leo) 


UNIT - 37 


Having learned about the Sun, We shall now learn about the 
sign owned by the Sun-namely Simbha, symbolised by lion -the King 
of Animals- The sign extends from 120° to 150° from the beginning 
of Mesha in the zodiac. If you divide the zodiac into three equal 
sections of 120°. Simha becomes the first in the second section 120°- 
240°. Signs are classified as Dharma, Artha, Kaama or Moaksha. 
Then Mesha and its trines (Simha, Dhanus) are Dharma signs. So 
Simha is the second of the Dharma signs. 

The asterisms Magha, Poorrvaphaal guni (Poora) and the first 
quarter of (Uthra) Utharaphaalguni are located in the Simha sign 


158 A Course in Indian Astrology 
The lords of these stars are respectively Kethu (Magha), Venus 
(Poorvaphalguni) and Sun (Utharaphalguni). 

Like its trines Mesha & Dhanus, Simha also is a barren sign 
and hence an Alpa - puthra Rasi. The signs Kanya, Vrischika, 
Vrishabha and Simha are signs with a low possibility of children. 
Hence in horoscope matching, both of the couple should not have 
their Ascendents and Moon signs in the above four ‘barren’ signs, 

Other characteristics of Simha sign are, earnestness, show of 
authority, independent views, boldness, adventure spirit, ambition, 
valour, power, smartness, influence, over others, leadership, abil- 
ity to rule, self-respect, self-confidence, sharp intelligence, thorough 
and analytical thinking, acting on one's own decision, spiritualism, 
philosophic thoughts, heart-diseases, tendency to have swelling, 
quick susceptibility to diseases and quick healing. All these are due 
to its fiery nature. 

Its lord is the Sun, The king among the planets. For Moon, 
Mars, Mercury and Jupiter Simha is friendly sign while for Venus, 
Saturn and Rahu (and Kethu) it is an inimical sign (Sathru-Rasi). 

Simha is neither a sign of exaltation of any planet nor a sign 
of debilitation of any planet. 

Simha is a fixed sign (Sthira-Rasi) and hence it is character- 
ised by authority, ambition, earnestness, alertness, boasting, lead- 
ership, commanding power, nobility power, courage, pleasant na- 
ture, self-confidence, intelligence, intuition, chargeability, good na- 
ture, trust worthiness, tendency to show off, masculinity and gen- 
eral active nature. 

Being the fifth sign of the zodiac, Simha signifies sports, gam- 
bling speculation, music, drama, entertainments and the like. 

These characteristics would be exhibited by persons born with 
the Ascendent in Simha provided the significators and the houses 
as well as the house-lords are strong. 

When we judge the persons born in the Simha we have to 
take account of the various houses for instance the second house in 
Kanya owned by Mercury, which has also the’lordship of the 11th. 
Also Mercury has Kanya as its exaltation sign while Venus (3rd 
and 10th lord of Simha Lagna) has the second house (Kanya) as the 
debilitation point, We shall describe below some of the characteris- 
tic of those born in Simha Lagna. 

When the Ascendent does not have relations with malefics, 
those born in Simha would be having strong bones, bony growth, 
broad shoulders and broad forehead. The body would be fleshy and 
tough. As a lion they would have a tight belly. In a crowd they 


A Course in Indian Astrology 159 
would be notable. When deciding the features we must take into 
consideration the relation between the Ascendent (Simha) and the 
other Planets (their aspects, conjunctions etc.). 

Persons with Simha Ascendent will be mostly with high think- 
ing, high ideals in life, high imagination and tendency to help oth- 
ers If Jupiter is favourable these people would be involved in rela- 
tion with the government. But if related to Saturn they may have 
to suffer troubles from Government. 

e As Sunis the lord of Simha, boldness virility, attacking atti- 
tude, courage, decisiveness tendency for forcing others, tendency to 
thrust one's views on others and such other characteristics of mas- 
culinity would be found in persons born in the sign Simha. 

Simha-Lagna persons would be showing affection and trust 
excessively on their friends and relatives. They would get leader- 
ship everywhere. Usually, presidents, registrars, office-heads and 
controlling authorities would be of Simha sign. The usually would 
have great love and affection to their subordinates and to people in 
general. They do not talk much, they would patiently hear what 
others say, but act according to their own decision, after weighing 
over all about the matter. Patience, forbearance and forgiving oth- 
ers are their characteristic. They would freely mix with people of 
high and low levels without any reservation and consequently they 
may become cheated and may feel often despair. 


They love to hear others praising them, and thus will fall 
victims to flattery. Simha Lagna should be vigilant about this and 
they must be watchful against others taking advantage over their 
love of flattery; they should be watchful, especially of natives with a 
strong Mercury who are experts to influence and win others. 

When there are obstacles Simha-Lagna persons have a spe- 
cial ability to tide over the obstacles. Firm determination helps them 
to rise up. 

They have a tendency to fly into a rage suddenly and then to 
talk aloud, however their quick anger would quickly cool down. They 
would strongly criticise errors and mistakes of other in honourable 
language if there is relation to Jupiter and in very mean language 
if related to Saturn. They would never even dream of anything 
below their status. Even at the expense of their own interests and 
comforts, they would come forward to help the deserving. But, they 
never like to serve under any one- 

Weakness of Simha-Lagna persons and matters against which 
they should be watchful. 


Due to their tendency to take sudden decision and a similar 


160 A Course in Indian Astrology 
action they may have to face troubles. If there is connection with 
Mars this weakness is enhanced. Therefore they should act only 
after having the advice of others and without losing balance of mind. 
The tendency to act on the basis of the present without thinking 
seriously about the past and future, would take the Simhians to 
trouble. They must be watchful on every direction. 

Majority of Simhians have a tendency to spend whatever they 
get, sometimes for others, sometimes to be flattered, and sometimes 
for fun. Be cautious about flattery. 

There is a possibility of being power-c1azy for Simha-borns, 
and if they do not control their craze almost certainly they would 
have to face strong enmity of their subordinates. Similarly they 
like sophistication reforms too much. Reforms are good but one 
should not be slaves of reforms and sophistication. 

Having good bodily power and immunity. Simha-borns do not 
easily fall victims of diseases of a long-lasting nature. And when 
they get a disease, they would quickly recover too. But, they will be 
too much afraid of diseases. 

In our body the heart, vertebra, bone marrow, nerves, mus- 
cles, iota, artery etc. are related to Simha sign. Hence if in a nativ- 
ity Simha sign is in a unfavourable house or if it is connected with 
planets which are associated with malefic positions (by lordship, 
position or aspect), then the native might suffer from the following 
iliseaseg in the period, and sub-periods of such planets. 

i Diseases of the heart, palpitation due to irregularity of blood 
circulation, meningitis, nerve-trouble, swelling, sunstroke, laziness 
epilepsy, malarial fever etc. 

Makara is the 6th sign (disease spot) and Kanya is the 2nd 
sign (Maaraka position) for Simha and hence for Simha-born, dur- 
ing the ruling periods of malefics in such positions such diseases 
are possible. 

Self-control, compulsory rest for at least some time every day 
meditation and prayer can prevent at least to some extent such 
diseases. 


UNIT - 38 


Financial Matters. Simhians do not like to involve them- 
selves in any small endeavour. They relegate such small things to 
others. They have usually a very good time in early life. When they 
grow in age there would be usually a gradual decrease in their earn- 
ings, for they have the tendency to help others freely and to take 
pride when the receiver becomes happy. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 161 

Environments: Bothin their homes and outside they like to 
be leaders. That is they like to rule rather than to be ruled. They 
will choose good companions and be in very good relations with 
them. Whatever be the circumstances, they never give away the 
individuality and dignity. For luxury articles and for keeping the 
residence attractive they become extravagant and so it would be a 
bit difficult to make a woman born in Simha satisfied and happy by 
dress and luxury articles like ornaments. 

Attitude to members of family: Simha-borns are deeply 
affectionate to women. But they never exhibit their affection. They 
would be devoted more towards the mother than towards father. 
They will ‘have to be among women often and they might be misun- 
derstood by their wives. Simha-borns would strive hard to uphold 
the prestige of wife and of the members of the family. 

It is desirable for a Simha-born man to have a wife born in 
Mesha, Dhanus, Mithuna Thula or Kumbha. Women born in Simha 
would be interested in social work. 

Simha borns deeply love their children, but their children 
would like independence and do not like being controlled. Since the 
children, hike their parents, are independent in attitude, great care 
is required to maintain healthy relations. Leadership qualities would 
be evident in childhood in them. 

Profession: Usually Simha-borns would have an occupation 
connected with some industry or the government, and a steady in- 
come and security would be associated with their profession. Occu- 
pations involving music, theatre arts, gold jewellery and gems are 
common for Simha-borns. They would have the ability to under- 
take professions of hard work and great responsibilities. Usually 
they would be chairpersons, managers, managing directors, offic- 
ers, superintendents, sales managers etc. 

When Mars is favourable they might become army officers, 
surgeons, chemists, dentists, barbers, butchers or iron or copper 
workers. Many of them get occupations in defence and professions 
associated with defence or war. 

When judging about occupation, one must take in to consid- 
eration the relation with other planets. 

Handwriting: Modern astrological research workers have 
discovered relation between the birth-sign and handwriting Simha 
ascendeuts will have usually 'round' hand writing and the letters 
would be comparatively large. Lines would be fairly straight and 
equi- spaced. The letters will not show any tilting. 

Auspicious Days: For Matters associated with the Sun, for 


162 A Course in Indian Astrology 
beginning medical treatment, for starting new ventures and for 
meeting one's superiors, Simha-borns will find Sunday favourable. 
On Sundays Sun's Hora are the best for them. (Each day is divided 
into 24 Hours. The word 'hour' corresponds to Hoara, probably de- 
rived from it Form the Sunrise, the first Hora is that of thelord of 
the day. Thus the first Hoara on Sunday is that of the Sun, on 
Monday the first Hora . is that of the Moon, on Tuesday the first 
. Hoara is that of the Mars, on Wednesday that of the Jupiter, on 
Friday that of Venus and on Saturday that of Saturn. After the first 
Hoara the succeeding Hoaras will have the lords from the order 
Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter and Mars, the order 
repeating again. counting the Hoaras, the next day morning would 
be that of the lord of the fifth day. The order is fixed as the sixth 
day lord of the previous lord. Thus the first Hoara on Sunday is the 
Sun, the next lord is the lord of the sixth day from Sunday-Friday 
and hence the lord of the second Hoara on Sunday is Venus. The 
next in Mercury and so on repeatedly. 

It is always good to elect a benefic Kaalahoara for any ven- 
ture, Guru hoara or Jupiter's Hoara. For Simha borns Monday is 
an inauspicious day and they are advised not to do very important 
matters on Monday, especially new ventures. 

Tuesday is good for them in matters of competitions, long trav- 
els and those requiring courage Wednesday would be suitable for 
them for tending money, for, the borrower will be able to return it 
quickly. Thursday is good for giving gifts to husband or wife or chil- 
dren. Friday would be good for short journeys. And Saturday is as 
bad as Monday for Simha-Lagna. 

Good Colour: Orange, red and green are favourable colours 
while blue and white are unfavourable for Snnha-Lagna, 

Auspicious numbers: 1, 4, 5, 6, 9 are favourable while 2, 7, 
8 are unfavourable. Hence Simha natives would better choose num- 
bers involving the favourable digits for their phones, Vehicles, house 
etc. 

Places signified by Simha: Places where wild animals live, 
forest desert, paths with thorns and pebbles, forts in mountains, 
government buildings, tallhills, clubs, cinema theatres, drama halls, 
sports field, gambling place, dancing place (balls), places of stock 
exchange, gold mines, industrial estate, Kitchen, Chimney, Oven, 
Stove, Terrace. 

Countries: France, Italy, Sicily, Bohemia, Alps, Lancashire, 
California, Rome, Bristol, Prague, Damascus and Chicago. 

Places in India: Orissa, Bengal-Ganjam District, Kaamroop, 


A Course in Indian Astrology 163 
East Deccan, Eastern bank of Jamuna river, Southern Bihar, and 
Kalinga. 

Substances: Cumin, green chillies, capsicum, oily grasses, 
gold materials, ring, yellow stones, brass, medicines. 


Relation of Simha Sign to Planets and Other Signs: 


For Simha Lagna apart from the lord of Ascendent, Sun, Mars 
is a Yoga-kaaraka as the lord of a quadrant (4th, Vrischika) and a 
trine (9th, Mesha). Jupiter though the lord of a trine (Sth), is also 
the lord of the8th. Venus is not a benefic as the lord of the3rd and 
the 10th (quadrant). Saturn also is not totally benefic due to its 
lordship of the 6th along with the 7th. Mercury is the lord of the 
2nd and Ilth. Moon is not a benefic for Simha-Lagna, as lord of 
12th. 

Paraasara describes the relations of planets to the Simha- 
Lagna, as 

Kroora Jna-Manda-Bhrugava: 

Soumyaa: Bhowmaejya-bhaanava: 

Prabhavaeth yoagamaathrena 

Na Subham Guru-sukrayoah: 

Nihanthaa — Sowririnduscha 

Phalada: | Samgathaervasaath 

Simhoadbhavasya jaathasya 

Proaktham-aethath Phalam Budhaia: 

Thus for Simha Lagna Mercury, Saturn and Venus are 
malefics while Mars, Jupiter and Sun are beneflcs- Mercury, on 
account of the lordship of the 11th, Saturn by that of the 6th and 
Venus by the lordships of the 3rd (as well as a quadrant) become 
malefics. Sun being the lord of the first house, Mars due to the 
lordships of atrine (9th) and a quadrant (4th) are highly benefic in 
nature. Jupiter is benefic due to the lordship of the Sth. Saturn on 
account of the lordship of the Maaraka-position (7th) is death in- 
flicting. Though a trine lord and a quadrant lord in conjunctions 
would produce benefic results in the case of Simha-Lagna the con 
junction of Venus and Jupiter does not produce such results evi- 
dently due to the lordship of the third for Venus and that of eight 
for Jupiter. 

Thula, Vrischika, Dhanus and Mesha are favourable signs 
while Makara and Meena are unfavourable. 


164 A Course in Indian Astrology 


When Mars and Jupiter are connected with 4th, 9th, or 10th 
houses itis auspicious to Simha-Lagna. Sunin 1, 2 or 5 along with 
Mars and Mercury, the 9th Mars in Vrischika or Mesha, Saturn in 
Kumbha, Venus in Thula or Vrishabha are good combinations for 
Simha Lagna. If Mars and Sun are posited in Vrishabha the native 
with Simha Lagna would get prosperity in occupation. 

All the above are not to be taken as such for ah persons born 
in Sirnha. These are general ones. These would have to be modified 
for each nativity depending upon the planetary positions on the 
horoscope. 


Moon(Chandra) 


UNIT - 38 


Among Grahaas (planets) Moon is as important as the Sun - 
if not more. Moon is the queen among the planets, and the Sun the 
King, the dictum says 'Rajanow Bhaanu Himagoo’, (Sun and Moon 
are Majestic) Infact, the Moon-sign (sign occupied by the Moon) 
called the Janma-Rasiis as important as the Ascendent-sign. IfMoon 
is stronger than the Ascendent, and if the Moon sign is stronger 
than the Ascendent sign, Astrologers, even assign the houses start- 
ing with the Moon sign as the first. Moon being the nearest celes- 
tial body, to the earth, naturally it should have very pronounced 
influence on us. 

Moon is the mind ofthe Kaala-purusha (time personified) and 
it is the Moon which controls our minds. (Sun, we have already 
learned, is the soul of the Kaalapurusha). The sperms of the male 
and the ovum of the females are special conglomerations of the ba- 
sic principles (Thathwas) - earth (Prithvi), water (Jala), fire 
(Thaejas), air (Vaayu) and earth (Aakasha). The sperm would be 
rich in the effects of Sun while the ovum is rich in the effects of the 
Moon. It may be noted that the Sun as well as the Moon also repre- 
sent special combinations of the 5 ‘Thathawa’. In the female uterus 


A Course in Indian Astrology 165 
when the sperms and ova combine, induced by the actions of the 
previous birth, the human soul enters as Jeeva or life into the time 
and space. The Sun and the Moon thus control the soul and the 
mind respectively of each living being. It is possible that the Moon 
has been assigned the control of the mind because the Moon is the 
fastest among the Astrological planets and so too are mental ac- 
tions which take little time. The general lordship of thesenses also 
in assigned to the Moon. 

Moon is a feminine planet. Among the five principles, Moon 
is related to the 'water' principle. Moon is related to the phlegm and 
wind (Kapha and Vaayu) among the three 'doshas'. Moreover Physi- 
cal development, mental attitude, wealth and favour from Govern- 
ment are also related to the Moon. 

Of the 12 signs Kataka is owned by the Moon, Vrishabha is 
the sign of exaltation while Vrischika is the sign of debilitation. 
Moon has no enemy. Mithuna, Simha and Kanya are friendly signs 
and Thula, Dhanus, Makara, Kumbha, Meena and Mesha are natu- 
ral signs. 


Matters and things associated with Moon: 


Sathwa Guna Jewels Fan 

Truth Dark brows Sumptuous meal 
Mind White clothes Whiteness 

Mother Milk White things 
Vaisyas Hastiness Ghee, Curd 

Softness Negligence to duties Utensils, wheat 
Weak body Trust-lessness in others Journey 
Devotion Fame Conch 
Handsomeness Comforts form Vehicles Fruits 
Intelligence People The six tastes (Shad- 
rasaas) Prominent veins Blood 

Feminine mentality Pearl 

Phlegm and wind (Kapha and Vaatha) Brilliance 

Pleasant mind Bodily bulk Beautiful eyes 
White rice Soft word 

New clothes Camphor 

Coolness Sweet taste Salt 

Fickleness Ivory-white colour Dress 

Material happiness Boasting Humanity 

Affection by women Thoughtlessness Umbrella 

Unsteady mind Trickiness in transaction Tin and bronze 


Love of pleasure Interest in Astrology Queen 


166 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Greed Income from Government Family and 
Clan Unfounded self-confidence 

Earning Minerals 

Happiness from Coborns Rich people Shyness 

Health Animals (like deer) , Flowers 
Interest in spices and cosmetics Agriculture Vegetarian 
Rise in occupation The cow bull Sea bath 

Leader's attitude Water 


Limbs associated with Moon: 


Left eye (Male) Right eye (Female) 

Breast Uterus Alimentary canal 
Veins Lymph Urinary bladder 
Brain Stomach Nerves 


Diseases associated with Moon: 


Eye diseases Madness Cancer 

Stroke Epilepsy Hydrocele 
Cold Worms Hernea 
Diseases of Glands TB Asthma 

Cough Throat diseases Varicose Vein 
Nerve weakness Dysentery Gastric ulcer 
Typhoid Unconsciousness Laziness 
Phlegm troubles Malaria Indigestion 
Tastelessness Jaundice Loss of Vitality 
Blood diseases Flowing nose Diseases of women 
Leucoderma Fear of Durga Yama, Yakshi 


Diseases due to addiction, Sarpa, Bhandrakaali, 
Hunting by 'Baalagrahas'. 

Places associated with Moon: Temple of Durga, Places 
owned by women, water, Places where medicinal plants are grown, 
places where liquor is kept northwest direction. 

Spots associated with Moon: Mountains, forts, ocean. 

Plants associated with Moon: Pumpkin plants, palm, 
mushroom, sugar cane, plants floating on water, Radish, plants with 
latex. 

Living beings associated with the Moon: Cat, dog, horse, 
rat, duck, crab, tortoise, owl. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 167 


Unit 39 


Occupations Associated with Moon: 


When the Moon becomes the conferring planet of the native's 
occupation and if Moon is strong, the native would be employed in 
the navy or in the water supplies department or in the agriculture 
department and the like; So also persons concerned with dealings 
or trade involving salt, fish, coral, pearls, spices, flowers, fruits, liq- 
uids, mineral oils, milk, vegetable and other items associated with 
the Moon, would have a strong Moon in their nativities. Nurses, 
Cooks, Stall managers and Washermen also would have a strong 
Moon. 


A person with a strong Moon ina movable sign might become 
the Captain in a ship. 

When Moon and Mars are strong the occupation may be asso- 
ciated with /boiler'. If a strong Venus aspects the Moon, the native 
would deal with dairy products. If Moon is aspected by Saturn the 
person would have to be associated with materials of deep sea like 
shells, nodules etc. Association of Sun, Moon, and Mars signifies 
dealings of salt, while that of Sun, Moon and Venus indicates nurs- 
ing. Association of Jupiter, Mercury and Moon is found in the 
nativities of novelists and writers. When the 10th lord is posited in 
the third and Moonis associated with it the native would be a good 
sales man. It may be noted that Moon must be related to the 10th 
house if Moon is to be a determinant of occupation. Its relation to 
other planets and houses must be taken into consideration in pre- 
dicting the occupation. 


Colours: Milky while colour and marine blue colour. 

Gems: Pushparag, diamond, pearl and white (colourless) 
stones. 

Digits: The numbers 2 and 7 are related to Moon. 9 is lucky 
number and 8 is evil while 5 and 6 are average. 

Periods of Strength: Main source of strength of the Moon is 
its phase strength (pakashabala) without which Moon would.be a 
malefic. A waxing Moon as near full Moon as possible signifies strong 
Moon. 

Mondays are good for Moon, especially in the Kaalahora of 
the Moon (6 to 7 AM, 1 to 2 PM, 8 to 9 PM on Mondays and 3 to 4 
AM on Tuesday). Please refer to Panchaanga to find out Kalahoara 
on each day. 


168 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Position of Moon in the Nativity: As already stated Moon is 
as important as the Ascendent in any horoscope. The houses are to 
be reckoned with from the Ascendent or from the Moon. This means 
that the Moon is as important in a horoscope as the Ascendent it- 
self. In fact in Judging any horoscope the house would have to be 
judged from both the Ascendent and the Moon, and if both judge- 
ments indicate the same result one can definitely predict the re- 
sult. When the indications do not agree, then one has to rely on the 
indications from the Lagna if Lagna is stronger and to those from 
the Moon if Moon is stronger. No other planet is given so much 
importance as the Moon. 


So also in predicting the effect of the planets moving along 
the zodiac (this is called the planetary 'transit' or 'goachara') the 
position of each planet during transit is to be reckoned from the 
Moon-sign in the nativity. This also reveals the supreme impor- 
tance given to Moon in the nativity. 

Though the Moon as well as the planets are situated in a 
particular asterism (Star) in the birth chart, it is the Moon-star 
that we take as the birth-star. According to Sathyaachaarya, in calcu- 
lating the Dasa periods one has to take either the Moon-star (as 
most Astrologers do} or the star of the Ascendent, whichever is 
stronger. (Blt this is not popular). 

Moon is the fastest among planets and the nearest to earth. 
It is strongest in the Vrishabha sign-especially corresponding to 
the star Rohini (40 to 53 20'). This may be the reason to describe 
Rohini as the spouse of Moon in our mythology. When Moon is in 
the sign Vrischika it is weakest (210 to 240 ). If in the birth chart 
Moon is afflicted by malefics or is very weak, the native would suf- 
fer from physical and mental diseases. The growth itselfis retarded. 
Moon is characterised by change-waxing and waning. Tendency to 
change and to have unsteady mind are conferred by a weak Moon. 
Those born in Kataka would show this tendency to frequent change 
in attitudes, in environments, in residence etc. 


Good associations between the Moon (significator of mind) 
and Mercury significator of intelligence in a nativity would make 
the native of a strong mind and keen intelligence. On the other 
bandif these 2 planets are in malefic associations, the native would 
be a first rate liar, would spread scandals and would be a victim of 
mental rashness and impulses. Moon and Mars in benefic's combi- 
nation would bestow independent thinking, boldness in one's opin- 
ions and useful travel. If their combination is evil, the native would 
be cruel notorious and with lust for women. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 169 

The Menstruation of women is controlled by Moon and Mars. 
The unfavourable position of these two planets in transit are the 
causes for the menstrual pain and other troubles. It is said that 
when moon occupies the 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 12 signs from the birth 
star of the lady and is aspected by Mars the menstruation (bleed- 
ing) takes place. 

The association of Moon and Mars in the 6th, 8th and 12th is 
highly malefic. 

Combination of Moon and Jupiter is highly beneficial. In fact 
when they are in quadrants to each other the native is said to enjoy 
the special yoga called Kaesari-yoga. Such a yoga would eradicate 
all other maleficities of the birth chart. Moon-Jupiter combination 
would bestow, liberal mentality, optimism, determination, Confi- 
dence, knowledge, philosophic thoughts, leadership, fame, honour, 
victory and the like. The combination of Moon and Jupiter in the 
positions 1, 5, 9, 10 and 11 is very auspicious. But it would give 
rheumatism, 'watery' diseases and expenditure in 6, 8 and 12. 


Moon in benefic association with Venus makes the native ah 
expert in arts, music, painting, literature etc. It would bestow on 
the native handsomeness, pleasures of life and tendency to use 
cosmetics and other luxury materials. Evil association of Moon and 
Venus might lead to venereal diseases and illegitimate relations 
with women. Strong Moon with a benefic Venus particularly in can- 
cer would indicate attractive breasts in females, and also plenty of 
milk to feed children. 

Moon and Saturn when beneficially combined confer patience, 
steadiness, toleration, caution and forethought, attention, earning 
and the like and their evil combination indicates cowardice, despair, 
inferiority complex and poverty. If the combination is in 6, 8, 12 life 
would be miserable- 


Moon in the 12 Signs 


UNIT 40 


(a) Mesha: The native with Moon in Mesha Will be satisfied 
with little food, would be the eldest of thecoborns, would be a veg- 
etarian, easily made happy, would like travel, have lust, be of weak- 
ness and unsteady wealth, be fierce and loved by Women, ofround 
reddish eyes, quick and effective to serve others, fickle, of defective 
nails, of scars in the head and would have good prestige and be 
afraid of water. 


170 A Course in Indian Astrology 

(b) Vrishabha:- Handsome, large face, fat thighs, mole on 
face, back and sides, sacrificing nature, ability to withstand, lead- 
ership, lordliness, stout neck, with female children, phlegmatic na- 
ture, patient, attractive movement, separation from relatives, chil- 
dren and hereditary wealth, increased digestion, loved by women, 
strong well-wishers and friends, fortunate, happiness in the middle 
and final part of life. 

(c) Mithuna:- When Moon is posited in. Mithuna the 
significations are love of women, expertise in sexual enjoyment, cop- 
per-coloured eyes, knowledge of saasthraas, occupation involving 
communications, curly hair, smartness, intelligence, humorous talk, 
handsome physique, ability to know the minds of other, Knowledge 
of gambling, attractive speech, love of music, Knowledge of dance 
and similar arts, interest in good food, companionship of eunuchs, 
protuberant nostrils. 

(d) Kataka:- Speedy walking with a slight bent, raised waist, 
‘ easily influenced by women, good friends, knowledge in astrology, 
good houses, financial ups and downs like the Moon, not tall, promi- 
nent neck, influenced by good words, affectionate to relatives and 
friends, interest in water-sports and gardens. 

(ec) Simha:- Tough, broad cheeks and face, honey coloured 
eyes, very few children, hatred to women, interest in meat, forest 
and mountains, Unnecessary anger, enhanced hunger and thirst, 
teeth and stomach troubles, charitable, steadiness, pride, valiant, 
devoted to mother. 

() Kanya:- Shy and lazy butbeautiful looks, travel, long shoul- 

. ders and arms, pleasant fife, softness, truthfulness, knowledge of 

Sasthras and arts, Charitability, high intelligence, strong desire 
for sexual enjoyment, getting, the house and wealth of others, more 
female children, residing away from the native place. 

(g) Thula:- Devotion to gods, Brahmins and good people, 
intelligent, clean, influenced by women, rising nose, small body, 
weakness, interest in walking, wealth, deformity in some part of 
the body, ability in trading, helping the family members but unrecip- 
rocated by them and even hated by them, invalid, having a second 
name in addition to one's uame. 

(h) Vrischika:- Broad eyes, broad chest, fat and round calf- 
muscles thigh and knees, separation from parents, teacher or equiva- 
lent persons, diseases in childhood, capable of cruel deeds, honey 
colour, honoured by VIPs, tendency to conceal one's sins. (This last 
characteristic is due to the sign Vrischika which is a sign of secrecy 
and it is called “Chhanna-paapa-Rasi). 


A Course in Indian Astrology 171 

(i) Dhanus:- Long face and neck, wealth from father, sacri- 
ficing attitude, poetic tendency, strong, good speech, large teeth, 
ears, lips and nose, interest in everything, knowledge of sculpture, 
slight bent, defective nails, thick arms, highly resourceful, charita- 
ble, hatred to relatives, impossibility to be influenced by force, but 
easily influenced by good words. 

(1) Makara:- Always caressing one's life and children, pro- 
fessing charitability, thin lower partofthe body good eyes and tight 
waists, quick to grasp, lazy, fortunate, uneasiness to suffer cold, 
traveller, strong, poetic, stingy unsympathetic, shameless, interest 
in unlawful old women. 

(k) Kumbha:- Long neck like a camel, prominent nerves, 
rough hair, tallness, fatty legs, thighs, buttocks, face and waist; 
tendency for deafness, lust for others belongings including women, 
sinful deeds, ups and downs in life, interest in relations, cosmetics, 
and flowers. suffering due to travels. 

(1) Meena:- Livelihood earned by association of things related 
to water, affection to wife, living with wife, handsome body, high 
nose, large head, defeating enemies, influenced by women, nice eyes, 
having lustre, wealth, enjoyment unexpected wealth (treasure) and 
wisdom. 

Note:- 1. All the above signification would be true if Moon, 
the signand lord ofthe sign are strong. Ifany ofthem are weak the 
indications also must be correspondingly modified. The following 
verses have been taken from Bruhajjathaka of Varaahamihira. He 
concludes this section thus. 

Balavathi raasow thadhadhipathow-cha 

Swabalayuthassyaadyadi Thuuhinaas: 

Katthitha Phalaanagqmavikala atha 

Sasivad-athoannyay-thwanauparichinthyaa: 

2.. It Should also be noted that most of the above indications 
are applicable to nativities with the Ascendents in the respective 
signs. Moon's influence is clear from this fact. 

3.. When the Moon is aspected by each planet, while it is pos- 
ited in each sign has been described by Sri Varaahamihira in the 
Drushtiprakarana chapter of Bruhajjathaka. These are also very 
important in prediction but are advised to read the original text for 
fear of space. 


The Moon in various houses:- 


First House:-In Kataka, Vrishabha or Mesha, Lagna, Strong, 
Moon confers charitability, ability, handsomeness, wealth, enjoy- 


172 A Course in Indian Astrology 
merit of pleasures and long life. In other signs, especially a weak 
Moon confers mental trouble, madness; servitude, deafness, blind- 
ness, tongue-afflictions, wickedness. These are not experienced if 
the Moon is strong. 

Second House:- Wealth, sexual pleasure, attractive speech, 
knowing other's thoughts and ideas, handsomeness, education, wis 
dom. 

Third House:- Wealth, education, fortune in food and drinks, 
ability, strength, stinginess, pride, coborns. 

Fourth House:- Happiness, Wealth, household articles, rela- 
tives, fame, vehicles, desire for other's wives, lack of greed, charita- 
ble. 

Fifth House:- Children, happiness, relations, intellect, inter- 
est in public affairs, simple-mindedness, sympathy for others, lack- 
ing sharp intelligence. 

Sixth House:- Cruel, swelling in stomach, pain in stomach, 
other diseases, facing defeat, laziness hated by others, short life. 

Seventh House:- Wealth, fortune, handsomeness, pleasures 
of married life, enjoyment with spouse sympathy, being influenced 
by women. 

Eighth House:- Quarrelsome, low education, uncharitable 
suffering from diseases, scars due to wounds, handsome, short-lived. 

Ninth House:- Children, virtues, good habits, charitability, 
devotion to parents and teacher, happiness, wealth and relatives. 
inducing desire in women, 

Tenth House:- Agricultural benefits and consequent wealth 
pleasures from dress, adornments, women; happiness; greatness 
due to charitability fame and honour. 

Eleventh House:- Many children, wealth, servants, educa- 
tion, long life, brilliance, strength, intelligence and liberality revel- 
ler. 

Twelfth House:-' Eye disease, laziness, lack of wealth, de- 
formity, being outcast, defeat in everything, wicked, leaving native 
place, not liked by others. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 173 


The Sign Kataka 
UNIT - 41 


The sign kataka is the fourth from the Mesha and extends 
from 90" to 120° . It is the first of the three Moaksha trines {Kataka- 
Vrischika, Meena) As the fourth sign, it represents the chest por- 
tion of the kaalapurusha. It is a fruitful sign and is related to the 
ability to speak. It is symbolised by a crab and is a multiped sign. It 
is a Prushtodaya (hinder-rising) sign and is strong at night. 
Paraasara describes the sign as: 

Paatalo Vanachaaree cha Brahmano nisi Veeryavaan 

Bahupaad-uthara Sthowlya thanuh-sathwaunee jalee 

Prushtoadyee karka raasir-Mrugankadhipathiismrutha: 

It is a watery sign and hence symbolises adaptability. Also it 
is a sign of Sathwa-Guna. Kataka is the exalted sign of Jupiter and 
the sign of debilitation of Mars. For Sun it is a friendly sign as also 
for Venus. For Saturn and Mercury it is an inimical sign. 

The sign Kataka embraces the fourth quarter of the asterism 
Punarvasu as well as the whole of Pushya and Aslesha. 


Characteristics of Kataka Ascendents: 


Those born with their Lagna in kataka have been described 
by the slokas, 

Prasannaanana Naethrascha 

Susawkhyoa gnaanasamyutha: 

Sthreepriyascha Bhavaeth Bhoagee 

Chandra Kshaethra-samudbhava: 


Hraswa; peena galaarthavaan paragruha 
preetha-ssuhrudbhiryuthoa 

Maedhaavee Vanithaajithyalarathi: 
sthoolaangakoa Dharmavaan 


Mrushiannaambara Bhooshana: pruthukati- 
sswalpaaimaja-sseeghraga: 


174 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Kinchith vakrathayaa naroa _ lalithavaag 

jJiaatha: Kuleeroadayae. 

(a) He who is born in the sign of Chandra, will be having 
pleasant face, lustrous eyes and be most happy; he would have deep 
wisdom and taste for women. 

(b) He who is born in the Kubera (Kataka) sign would be short, 
with prominent neck. He would be rich and will acquire the house 
and wealth of others. He will have several relatives and will ac- 
quire the house and wealth of others. He will have several relatives 
and will have a receptive intellect. He is influenced easily by women 
and will be interested in water- sports. The body might be a bit bulky. 
He will be of Charitable nature and will enjoy excellent food; he will 
have good dress and ornaments. The waist would be rather fat. He 
would have very few children; His walking would be quick and with 
a little bent. 

Generally the life of a person born in kataka would be with 
intermittent rise and fall honour and dishonour-like the lord of the 
sign which waxes and wanes periodically. 

Though the kataka-borns like a secluded life, they would show 
anger and impatience also. They thrust their likes and dislikes on 
others too. As a crab, they can change according to environments 
and they can bring others to their fold. They are brilliant, and are 
capable of correct assessment and guess; they enjoy nature and ad- 
ventures. Familiarising with the heroes from dramas or cinema or 
novels, they take pride in identifying with such heroes. They often 
imitate others writings or even steal other's literary work, but they 
are capable of selling the old wine in new bottles. 

Kataka is a watery sign and a movable sign. As such like 
liquids they can adapt to any circumstances, but they would be very 
sensitive and are usually irritable. As flowing water is difficult to 
be controlled the kataka-borns can not be defeated’ easily by force. 
Further some of them would be leading an uncontrolled life like 
furious water flowing its own way. They have a special ability for 
compromise talks, and to bring together parted friends. They usu- 
ally become famous in this field. 

They are afraid of physical attack but can withstand effec- 
tively mental and intellectual attacks, with confidence. They would 
have anger sorrows and impulses intermittently like the crashing 
waves of the sea shore. 

Being the fourth sign of the zodiac, kataka signifies the fourth 
house matters-wealth, landed property and the house. Kataka-born 
persons have very great attachment to the family and house of their 


A Coursein Indianstrology 175 
birth. They like to narrate stories oftheir family and its past. When 
the sign is occupied by malefics, they suffer obstacles, in getting the 
right over their wealth due to children or relatives, but in later life 
their hurdles would clear off. 

Differences of opinion with relatives, loss of elder brother or 
sister hardship on account ofchildren-these are usually experienced 
by the kataka borns. But they get protection from their children 
during old age. 

They have the ability to know divine things, and to grasp the 
minute aspects as well as to imitate works of art. Magicians, mim- 
icry artists, actors, black-magicians are all usually kataka-borns. 

If they come to know that they are not being listened to, 
suddenly they become disheartened and moody. But at the suitable 
opportunity they would avenge the neglect. 

Because of detailed and repeated analysis of future actions, 
they often lose good opportunities. For instance, after a lot ofthink- 
ing when they finally decide to purchase a rain coat, the rainy sea- 
son would be over. 

Sense ofresponsibility and strong determination are very char- 
acteristic of kataka persons. They seldom go back even by hair's 
breadth from their determination. Instead of earning a lump sum 
in a whole lot they like to earn in small amounts from a number of 
sources. Those who earn large sums in a lot would not be kataka- 
borns. 

Though they would have to face a number of private as well 
as open hardships, they can survive all these. But, whatever high 
position they attain in life, they would never forget their past diffi- 
culties at all. 

Though they would appearto be very much open-minded, they 
keep to themselves several secrets. 

Many kataka-borns would have to undertake sea voyages. 
Through the wife they may get some wealth after legal proceed- 
ings. 

Though they get honour and position from outsiders (includ- 
ing foreigners), they have to be guarded against their hidden ene- 
mies. Before the middle age they would be unsteady and unsystem- 
atic; but later their life would get steadiness and regularity. It is 
possible that a relative or a servant may turn hostile and may lodge 
a complaint with the authorities or the Government; or may senda 
write up in the news paper. 

Precautions:- Being ofchanging nature, kataka-borns must 
compulsorily practise patience. Those who have to deal with Mesha 


176 . A Course in Indian Astrology 
or Vrischika borns (Mars signs) should take special care in this di- 
rection. They must also control changing opinions frequently. 

Health:- Kataka-borns usually are not healthy in their child- 
hood, but after youthhood health would improve. Kataka sign is 
related to the chest and stomach. They unnecessarily think about 
stray things and become moody. The channels of blood supply to 
the heart and the digestive system are the usual spots oftrouble for 
the kataka-born. When malefic join the signor aspect it, during the 
ruling periods or sub-periods of such malefics the diseases given 
above may be experienced. 

Addiction to liquor is a possibility and such people must take 
special control-steps otherwise they would have to repent. Those 
who travel to foreign places might be wounded by animals or by a 
fall. 

Diseases:- When the Moon is weak or when unfavourable 
planet aspects on the first house would cause several diseases in 
the ruling periods and sub-periods of the concerned planets. Some 
of the possibilities are, diseases of the lungs, Asthma, pleurisy, TB, 
diseases of the alimentary tract, stomach diseases, nervous trou- 
bles, epilepsy, jaundice, obstacles of bile duct, bladder stones, worms 
etc. 

Occupation:- kataka-borns would shine in hoteleering, res- 
taurants and running sweet stalls and similar industries. They would 
also shine as nurses, historians, archeologists and similar fields. 
They would usually have an occupation related to water, materials 
Or watery source or liquid materials (including liquor). When Jupiter 
is related to the sign, they may turn out to be famous teachers, able 
advisers or ministers or preachers. 

Family Life:- Kataka-borns are very much attached to their 
family. They would clean the house and the surroundings includ- 
ing the rooms and gardens, and they would decorate them with 
splendid things. They like entertaining guests aud friends. Due to 
their attachment to the house, they would like to start their indus- 
tries near their homes. 

The married life would be normally steady and happy. Along 
with the affection shown to the wife (or husband) sometimes they 
interfere with the partner's domestic assignment and this may lead 
to shght rubs. 

Women born in kataka, love their husband and children very 
much. They would sacrifice anything for the sake of the husband 
and children. sometimes they undertake dangerous tasks for oth- 
ers. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 177 

Handwriting:- They do not have a steady handwriting. Dif- 
ferent letters would be different types. The letters would show a 
gradual increase in size. They have the characteristic of drawing a 
line below their signatures. 


Benefic planets and malefic ones. 


When judging the nativities of kataka-borns, it is useful to 
remember the nature of the various planets. This can easily be seen 
from the following lines: 

Bhaargavaendrasuthow paapow Bhoosuthaangirasow 

Subhow 

Aeka aeva bhavaeth saakshaath Boomijoa yagakaaraka: 

Nihanthaa Ravirannyaow thu paapinow Maarakaahwayow 

Kwachid-vyayaarthaga: Sukroa Yoagadaschaethi 

kaechana. 

Due to lordships of quadrant (4) and the eleventh venus and 
due to lordship of 3 and 12 Mercury are malefics for kataka Lagna, 
Mars and Jupiter are benefics. Jupiter is benefic due to the lord- 
ship of the ninth but loses a portion of the beneficity on account of 
the lordship of the sixth house. However, Mars with the lordship of 
a trine (fifth) and a quadrant (10th) is extremely benefic and is a 
Yogakaaraka for Kataka Lagna. Saturn and sun have death inflict- 
ing right, being lords of the 7th and second respectively. Sun is 
malefic but Saturn, being a natural malefic having lordship of quad-: 
rant may be treated as neutral. Some astrologers say that Venus 
positedin the 12thor second would confer special benefits to kataka 
Lagna. 

Auspicious days: Tuesday is a day of success; and Friday would 
bring happiness and gains for kataka Lagna. Wednesday is good for 
travel. For education and foreign affairs Thursday is good. Satur- 
day may imply disagreements, obstacles and delay. 

Mrigaseersha, Chithra and Sravishta are good asterisms. 

Pushya, Aslesha, Anuraadha, Jyeshta, Uthraproshtapada and 
Raevathi are not good. 

Colours:- White, cream, red and yellow are good; Blue, green 
are not favourable. 

Numbers:- 2, 7, and 9 are lucky numbers; 1,3,4,6 are aver- 
age while 5 and 8 are unlucky numbers. 

Gems:- Diamond, pearl and ruby are favourable while blue 
and green gems are unfavourable- 

Signs suitable for association:- Simha, Thula, Vrischika, 
Meena, Maesha, Vrishabha- 


178. A Course in Indian Astrology 


Mars (Kuja) 


UNIT 42 


Next to Sun, the significator of father, and Moon, the significa- 
tor of mother, we have Mars, the significator of co-borns. Mars is a 
dry and powerful planet. It is also a fiery planet (Aagnaeya-graha). 
It symbolises the total power of the native. Power, effectiveness in 
execution ability to withstand obstacles, earnestness, self-confidence, 
desire to lead in everything-these are all characteristics of Mars. so 
the native with a favourable and strong Mars would be having the" 
above characteristics. Power of Mars would serve not only for crea- 
tive and good purposes but also for destructive purposes. Mars has 
a significant influence in controlling the primitive tendencies of man. 


Mars is a natural malefic and is a masculine planet; it is a 
Kshathriya planet (fighting and ruling race) like the Sun. When 
Sunand Moon are the king and queen respectively Mars is described 
as the army-chief (Saenaa-naayaka) and the symbol of energy, When 
Mars is strong in a nativity the following signification are implied:- 

Self-confidence, energy, ability to withstand anything, cour- 
age, adventure, boldness, resourcefulness, ability for argument, chiv- 
alry, mental courage, bodily power, capacity for organisation, prac- 
tical expertise, independence, clear character, determination, am- 
bition for material rise, leadership in all fields, invading mental 
power, tiding over obstacles, incessant endeavour for desire fulfil- 
ment, Continuous enterprise, not accepting defeat, intermittent 
impulses of despair, sorrow and happiness, not worrying over the 
future, rationalism, thoughtlessness, absence of systematic action, 
brilliance in war-matters, social reforms, non-belief in customs, 
knowledge in matters of Government, very open behaviour, love of 
power. 


But when Mars is weak the above indications are modified as 
follows:.- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 179 

Cruelty, anger, thoughtless deeds, quarrelsome nature, de- 
pendent attitude, servitude, addiction to liquor, forcing others, lack 
of common sense, attacking nature, wickedness illegal sexual grati- 
fication, unnatural sexual tendencies. 

The significations of Mars are listed below and these are 
experienced favourably in the ruling periods of mars when he is 
favourably posited in the horoscope. The  significations would be 
unfavourable when Mars is unfavourably posited in the horoscope. 

Younger co-borns, courage, vitality, active nature, honour and 
prestige, enmity, fame, leadership in war, diseases, metal-tech 
niques, blood-disorders, surgery, fight, quarrels, disputes, fire-acci- 
dents, pride, rank in army, cruelty, victory, landed assets, anger, 
bile-disorders, debts, gold, cultivation, thorough discrimination, lust, 
blabbering, desire for other's women, wounds, medical treatment, 
hotness, physical strength, copper, coral, ruby, governing house, 
poison, insects, family, sulphur, lion, tiger, fire, (cooking vessels) 
arrow, (weapon) thieves, enemy, lies, sin, birds, axe, cannon, bow 
and arrow, blemishes, independence, relative, factory, hemp, drugs, 
liquors, wheat, musk, red colour, red garménts, jaggery, redwood, 
red flowers, red bull, limbs, revenge. 


Mars is associated with Thamo-guna; manliness, red colour, 
medium height, minerals summer, thorny plants and bitter taste. 
The general nature is given as:- 

Kroora-rakthaaruno Bhowmaschapalogdaaramoorthika: 

Pithapraakruthika : Kroadhee Krusamadhyathanurdwija 

To those born in Mar's signs and those with strong Mars one 
has to be cautious in dealings. Itis always wise to go in compromise 
with them because Martians are experts in revenge and they wait 
to effectively retaliate at the most suitable opportunity if they have 
any grudge. They do not like the advise of others.and they would 
not agree to work under anyone. They also hate te take up petty 
jobs and responsibilities. Therefore one may find several political 
leaders, brave adventurers, war-heroes, famous sportsmen, explor- 
ers etc. are having a strong Mars. In their own assessment and do 
not wait for either help or assistance from others, And for the good 
as well as bad experiences which they might have, their own deeds 
and nature would be the cause. 

Most important significations of Mars are co-borns and landed 
property. 

Physical features:- Martians would have a fire complexion 
and with a shade of red, pimples would be common. The body is 
usually fleshy. There would be an excess of red- marrow. 


180 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Parts of body:- Muscular systems, left ear, face and head, 
tongue; urinary bladder, nose, uterus, waist, kidneys, prostate gland, 
anus, colon, red-marrow, sexual organs, menstrual system are all 
related to Mars. 

Diseases-When Mars is weak or when associated with 
malefics there is the possibility of diseases for the parts listed above- 
Like wise Mars may cause the diseases like, all types of fevers, 
phlegm, small pox, chicken pox, measles, filarial fever with swell- 
ing, mumphs, burns, bleedings, wounds, typhoid, intestinal ulcers, 
pain in stomach, hernia, abortion, appendicitis, muscle- weakness 
etc. Though Mars is the significator of several diseases, one has to 
take into consideration the occupation sign, the aspects of other 
planets and the stellar positions etc. to predict the exact diseases. 


When Mars is strong and signifies the tenth house in a nativ- 
ity, the native has a high probability of professions associated with 
defence department or the police department. Dealers in medicines, 
chemists, surgeons, butchers, barbers, blacksmith, cooks, engineers, 
industrialists, thieves, rubber-industrialists, traders in coral, em- 
erald and other gems, murderers, extremists, adventurers etc. would 
be having a strong Mars. It is also possible to correlate the relations 
between Mars and other planets, and signs, with the specific field 
of occupation thus, 


Mars in fiery sign - War front and battle Geld. 

Mars in' earthy sign - Army 

Mars in airy sign - Air-forces 

Mars in watery sign - Naval-forces 

Mars and Sun - Military hospital 

Mars and Moon . - Navy 

Mars and Mercury - Accounts, audit etc. associated with 

army 

Mars and Saturn - Trenches, mines, jobs involving dead- 

bodies etc. 


This list is not exhaustive but only indicates the possibilities 
and it should not be taken as such to conclude that whenever Mars 
is strong the native would be employed in the forces. Analysis of 
nativities is not so simple and requires a consideration of all as- 
pects regarding the planetary distributions. 


Products associated with Mars:- 


Jwars {choalam corn) tobacco, cashew-nut, groundnut, 
arecaunt, ginger, mustard, gastric, liquors, alkalies, acids, iron, steel, 
axe, knife, Sword, cannons, copper, arms,.tools, landed properties, 


A Course in Indian Astrology 181 
serpents, thorny plants, building, old materials, repair. 


Mars and Saturn Iron and steel 
Mars and Venus Coffee and tea 
Mars and Moon Liquors 


Mars and RahwKethu Serpents 

Birds & Animals:- Tiger, wolf, hunting dogs, other cruel 
animals, eagle, vulture and other cruel birds. 

Places:- Army centres, battle field, butcher's place, police sta- 
tion, black smith's, workshop, factories, all these are associated with 
Mars. 

Good Days:- Tuesday is the day of Mars. Sunday and Mon- 
day indicates gains, success and happiness. Friday is a day of ex- 
pense, Wednesday, though is likely to effect health, indicates in- 
come. Saturday would be poor. On the favourable days the ‘Kaala 
hoara’ of Mars would be beneficial for legal affairs, war-journey 
etc, - 

Numbers:- For those with a favourable natal Mars 9 is the 
best number 1, 2, 4 and 7 are also good. 

Colours:- In order to avoid the laziness and weakness due to 
a weak Mars, wearing green and blue colour would be useful. And 
in order to ward off the evils caused by a powerful Mars red colour 
may be worn. 

Gems;- Wearing ruby and coral would make the Mars fa- 
vourable. 

Gods for warding off evils of Mars:- For evils caused by 
Sun and Mars prayer to Veerabhadra and Sooryanamaskara are 
good. 

For evils due to Mars alone Subrahmaniais the suitable god 


Mars and Moon Goddesses BhadraKaali, Paarvathi, and 
Lalitha 

Mars and Mercury Narasimha 

Mars, Mercury and Venus  Lakshminarasimhamoorthy 
Mars, Mercury and saturn Hanuman 

Mars and Jupiter Sathyanaarayana 

Mars and Venus Mahalakshmi 

Mars, Saturn, Rahu,Mercury Venkitachalapathy 
Mars, Saturn and Rahu Ayyappa 

Mars and Ketu Ganapathy 

Mars and the 12 Signs:- 


Of the 12 signs Mars is the lord of both Maesha and Vris- 
chika; Maesha is the Moolakshethra, Makara is the sign of Exalta- 


182 A Course in Indian Astrology 
tion while Kataka is the sign of debilitation. Vrishabha, Thula and 
Kumbha are neutral signs; Kanya and Mithuna are inimical signs. 
Simba, Dhanus and Meena are friendly signs. 


Significations of Mars in Various Houses 


First House:- Wounds or scars on the body, cruelty, anger, 
shortlife, weak body, wickedness, sorrows due to diseases etc., not 
sticking to any place, adventurous nature. 

Second House:- Deformed teeth and face, low education, 
travelling nature, poor wealth, serving bad people, logician or quar- 
relsome nature or argumentative nature, alchemist, chemist. 

Third House:- Tough, very active, enjoyment of happiness 
and Wealth, many good qualities, long life, absence (or uselessness) 
of younger co-borns, long life. 

Fourth House:- Absence of relatives, house, happiness, 
landed property, care from mother, cattle and vehicle, influenced 
by women, always worried. 

Fifth House:- Absence of children and wealth, always in trou- 
ble, little fame, unsteady intellect, not virtuous, love of adventure, 
anger. 

Sixth House:- Healthy body, very strong, defeating enemies, 
courageous, desire for women, famous, power, enhanced digestion, 
tall body, scars due to wounds or cuts. 

Seventh House:- Involved in deeds that are unbecoming, 
devoid of comforts from wife, worries due to travel, quarrelsome, 
affected by diseases, cruel look, suffers death of wife. 

Eighth House: Deformed body, various diseases, poor, short 
lived, absence of charities and customs. 

Ninth House:- Liked by ruler, giving troubles to father, inter- 
est in inflicting pain on others, troublesome to people, sinful. 

Tenth House:- Leadership or lordship, high in position, 
earnestness in doing everything, honoured, served by good people, 
having wealth, children and fame. 

Eleventh House:- Having children, Wealth, happiness, pros- 
perity, valour, chivalry, many servants, long life, virtues, freedom 
from sorrows and power of good speech. 

Twelfth House:- Eye disease, laziness, love of money, im- 
prisonment, sorrows, diseases, downfall, bad character, stinginess, 
suffering, loss of wife. 

Note:- Be careful when such indications as those given above 
for various planets are used in judging horoscopes. One has to con- 
sider what Mars is for each nativity. For instance when Mars is the 


A Course in Indian Astrology 183 
lord of the first house, the above indications are not to be applied 
especially the evil ones. when Mars is exalted or in own sign, or in 
a friendly house the situations are different. It is the skill of the 
astrologer to fish out what each planet offers for each nativity. When 
Mars is the lord of the fifth house one should not predict absence of 
children. When Mars is in the fifth house; in fact as the lord of fifth 
house Mars would confer children to the native. 


Significations of Mars in Various signs;- 


When Mars is posited im Mesha or Vrischika (own signs) the 
native wouldbe entertainedby the ruler, would have to travel, would 
be an army-chief, and would have scars on the body due to wounds 
or cuts. There is a tendency to steel. The native would be of high 
masculine vitality. 

Mars posited in the signs of Venus (Thula and Vrisha) the 
native would be influenced by women and would have an eye on 
other's women. He would not be favourable to his relatives; He might 
be knowing magic and other tricks. He would be adorned with good 
dress but always he would be a coward. 

Mars posited in signs of Mercury (Mithuna and Kanya) indi- 
cates, having children, not having relatives, having gratitude, in- 
terest and knowledge in music and war-techniques. The native would 
be without fear, would be a miser and would have to beg. 

Mars in Kataka indicates wealth, earning through travel in 
waterways, intelligence, but also deformity of limbs and cruelty. 
Mars in Simha signifies ability to withstand, lordship, lack of 
wealth journey through woods and low probability of having wife 
and children. 

Mars in the signs of Jupiter (Meena, Dhanus) indicates, sev- 
eral enemies, ministership, fame, fearlessness and very few chil- 
dren. 
Mars in Kumbha indicates worries due to various sorrows, 
lack of wealth, travelling habit, being a liar, cruelty. 

Mars in Makara the sign of exaltation, confers on the native 
wealth and children and a state like that of a king (ruler) or the 
status of a ruler. 


Mars in Association with other Planets:- 


There are five different ways by which two planets get associ- 
ated with each other; these are summarised in the sloka (from 
Phaladeepika of Manthraeswara). 

Raasow sthithir-Mitthe Yoagoa 


184 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Drushti: Kaendraeshu samstthithi; 

Thrikoanae vaa_ stthithi; pancha- 

Prakaaroa bandha_ eeritha: 

Being posited in each other's sign (1.e.. one planet in the sign 
of the other planet), both being in the same sign, aspecting, being 
posited in the quadrant signs of each other, being posited mutually 
in trine positions-in these five ways two planets may be associated 
with another planets. 

Mars and Sun:- When the association between Mars and 
sun is beneficial ina nativity, the native would be courageous, ear- 
nest and bold. He gets the benefic characters of both the Sun and 
Mars. é 

When they are associated and if the association is malefic, 
the ruling periods of the planets would cause fever, wounds, accid- 
ents, chicken pox, quarrels and cruel deeds, Even the domestic life 
is made hard. 

Mars and Moon:- If the association is benefic the native gets 
a sympathetic and liberal attitude in general. This is more pro- 
nounced in females. 

Malefic association between the planets indicates that the 
native would be thoughtless in his actions. The health also is af- 
fected; There would be accidents with bleeding, loss of wealth, com- 
plaints, misunderstandings and loss of near relatives. 

Mars & Mercury:- When associated beneficially, the native 
would be fast and skilled in execution of duties; he would be success- 
ful in competitions and gets a rise; there would be unfading ear- 
nestness in actions. When Mars-Mercury association is inauspicious, 
the native would turn out to be an unposter, a cheat and a deceiver. 
His possessions would be robbed off or taken away by others by 
cunning means. 

Mars & Jupiter:- Benefic association of these two planets 
makes the native steady, determined, liberal-minded and incessantly 
endeavouring. He has the ability to march victoriously in competi- 
tions. Good advocates usually would have this combination in their 
nativity. ' 

When the association is evil, the native would excessively 
spend and would be involved always in disputes and quarrels. He 
would lose his wealth in gambling. There would be criminal cases 
against him and there is the possibility of punishment. He may 
suffer by transfers or de-promotions. 

Mars & Venus:- Benefic association makes the native very 
able, of very good behaviour, tactful and straight forward. He would 


A Course in Indian Astrology 185 
be interested in sports and arts. Hewill earn landed properties from 
savings out of his occupation. Relations with the fair sex would be 
decent. Evil Mars-Venus association makes the native a hypocrite 
and prodigal. He would never think about the evil effects of his 
deeds. He would have relations with women of low status. There is 
also the possibility of venereal diseases. 

Mars & Saturn:- Ifthe association is benefic, the character- 
istic of Mars, namely, pride, haste, offence, unconcern about conse- 
quences, too much boldness etc. would be softened by Saturn. There 
will be toleration, patience and good health. Even in adversities 
there will be progress without mental set back. 

When evil, the association is quite dangerous, as both the 
planets are highly malefic. The combination would cause in the 
ruling periods of the two planets, impatience, hastiness, lack of com- 
mon sense and as a consequence the natives may evencommit homi- 
cide. Wounds ‘due to weapons, loss on account of theft and robbery, 
disfiguring caused by'diseases such as smallpox etc. are also indi- 
cated by the evil combination of Mars with Saturn which is known 
as Mandaara Yoaga. 


Evil Position of Mars in Nativities:- 


Mars by nature is evil and when is posited in malefic.posi- 
tions especially in the nativity of females, is very much dreaded 
andit is popularly known as Kuja-dosha: Several marriages are set 
aside on account of Kuja-dosha. An evil Mars in the eighth house 
from Ascendent, Moon or Venus is indicative of widowhood to 
women. Naturally in the society where there is the domination of 
the male one would be reluctant to expect a partner with Kuja-. 
dosha. However, the evil due to the position of Mars in 9th or sec- 
ond or seventh houses need not be evil in all nativities. Mars may 
be a yoaga-karaka or there might be compensations. Also not only 
Mars, any planet can be an evil as Mars and Mars may be as ben- 
efic as any other planet. Hence, the popular fear of Kuja-dosha is to 
some extent unfounded. As matching of horoscope is to be discussed 
separately, let us not elaborate Kuja-dosha at this moment 


But it may be noted that Mars is associated with more mat- 
ters concerning women, Such as bleeding, menstruation, delivery, 
abortion, co-borns, etc. Thereforeit is desirable that females would 
observe rituals to please Mars. They may, for this purpose wear 
red gems and have saffron ‘thilak’ at the forehead; prayer to god- 
dess, recital of the thousand names of goddess Lalitha 
(Lahthaasahasranama) prayer to Shanmukha, fasting on Tuesday 
etc. 


186 A Course in Indian Astrology 


The Sign Maesha(Aries) 


UNIT 43 


Maesha is the first sign of the zodiac, extending from 0 to 30 
. It is a masculine sign and a movable one. Also it is the first of the 
set of three signs called Dharma-thrikona (Maesha, Simhaand Dha- 
ius) also known as the fiery trinity. It represents the head of the 
Kaala-purusha (time personifies). 

Mars owns the sign and it is also the Moolakshetra of Mars. 
For sun Maesha is the sign of exaltation while for saturn it is the 
sign of debilitation. As the name, Maesha implies it is symbolised 
by a goat. The sign is red, dry and fiery; it is a prushtodaya sign 
(rising with the hinder part), and a night sign. Itis a quadruped 
sign. The colour is red. Paraasara describes the Maesha sign thus: 

Raktha-varnoa — bruhat-gaathra: 

Chathushpaath raathri-vikramee 

Poorvaasee-nrupajnaathi: 

Sailachaaree-rajoagunee 

Prustoadayee paavakee cha 

Maesha raasi: Kujaadhipa: 

The asterisms Aswini, Bharani and the first quarter of 
Krithika are posited in the sign Maesha. Maesha is an eastern sign 
and has movement in mountainous part. 


Characteristics of Mesha Ascendent:- 


Maesha is the head of the Kaalapurusha and is the first of 
the signs; as a consequence those born in this Ascendent would 
push up to get the first place in every aspect of life. Due to the fiery 
nature of the sign and its lord (Mars) they would be independent in 
attitude and are hasty in taking decisions. They do not like to be 
advised and they give top priority to their own opinions. When there 
is association with string planets the Maesha-borns may become 
leaders, officers, guides or preachers. Along with administrative 


A Course in Indian Astrology 187 
and managerial skills one would find in them an attitude of 'no 
compromise’. They would get new concepts and ideas dawned in 
their minds and they would make a haste to put them into practice. 
They will face any type of circumstances boldly and intelligently, 
Though they would offer leadership to others they may be reluctant 
to sacrifice their interests. They would speak out anything openly. 
Their tendency to exhibit often would lead to excessive expenses. 
Politicians born in Maesha will try to force their ideas into others. 
They have strong opposition to conservation and customs; and they 
would attack them. They have great desire for honour and recogni- 
tion. In religion and political affair they would have to fight with 
others on account of their unbending attitude. Though Maesha-borns 
usually speak aloud, make a lot of haste and confusion and scold 
without any reservation, after a short while their behaviour would 
basically undergo transformation. Their ‘explosive’ behaviour is like 
the burning ofa heap ofhay. After the first upsurge they complete- 
ly cool down. Maesha-born usually do not get much benefits from 
brothers. In course of time they alone would be with their parents. 
They would generally have interest in mountaineering. Frequently 
they will have to travel, many of them shift their residence fre- 
quently. Many Maesha-borns go abroad either as agents or as mis- 
sionary workers. Generally they do not have much interest in bath- 
ing and in water. They are afraid of water. Some of them may have 
to suffer solitude, staying abroad or concealed life in order to escape 
from enemies. Maesha-borns usually are hasty to get married and 
in several cases the relationship established without thought ei- 
ther becomes broken or become bitter. 

When the Maesha-Ascendent is connected with evil planets, 
the native is likely to show cruel, proud, hasty selfish and angry 
nature. Adamant nature, negative attitude, extremist views, hy- 
pocrisy; insult, haste, quarrel, attack on others, top selfishness ete. 
would be evident in their behaviour. 

For Maesha-sign Jupiter is the lord of fortune (9th lord) as 
well as the lord of mishap (12th lord). Therefore they experience 
very fortunate prosperity and shortly afterwards unfortunate loss 
of all the fortunes. 


Physical Features:- 


Though they may not become bulky, their body would be mus- 
cular, they are not very thin. The neck and face would be very long. 
The head would be a little broad while the cheeks and jaws would 
be narrow . Eye brows would be good and the eyes would be a mix- 


1&8 A Course in Indian Astrology 
ture of dark, red and brown colours. 

Generally they have a high degree of immunity to diseases. 
But there is a high probability of wounds and cuts, especially on the 
head. There would also be accidents. 

They would have. strong interest in sports and games, espe- 
cially those of short duration. 

Limbs associated with Maesha:- Bones, Skull, Blood ves- 
sels, facial bones except the nasal ones, head. 

Disease:- Headache, burns, indigestion, swelling, disease of 
the brain, nervous diseases, fever, bde disease, pimples, ringworm, 
migraine, malaria, blocking in the veins, these are some of the dis- 
eases to which the Maesha sign is related. 

Occupations:- Maesha-borns might mostly take up a pro- 
fession signified by Mars. When Mars is strong and becomes the 
significator of profession or where the sign Maesha is the second, 
sixth, tenth or seventh (tenth of the tenth) house which are related 
with the profession, the native might take up on the following occu- 
pations: 

Army, military officer, defence department, police, surgeon, 
butcher, barber, tailor, druggist, thief, black-smithy, baker, watch- 
repair, watchmaking, dyer, cooks, carpenter, physicians, boxers, 
advocates, fire-force, rifle, cannon, pistol making and repair, brick 
making, mechanic, factory workers, mill workers, washermen, black 
magic; wrestlers, detectives, chemists etc. 

Locations associated with Maesha sign: Pastures, desert, 
sandy places, hills, inaccessible places, hiding spots of thieves, 
plateaus, cattle shed, tilled land, villages, slum area, arid land. 

Direction: East 

Places: Britain, Germany, Lower Poland, Palestine, Den- 
mark, Syria, Lebanon. 

Products: Bomb, acids, crackers, tractor, bus, motor ma- 
chines, chemicals. 

Handwriting: Sharp and straight handwriting without ir- 
regularities of the letters is found in Maesha-borns. Some letters 
might be tilted towards the right. The lines would show an upward 
trend usually. Below the signature there would be a thick line 
commonly. 

Auspicious days: Tuesday, Friday, Monday and Sunday also 
are good. Other days are not good. 

Favourable numbers: 9, 8 and 6 

Gems: Blue gems, ruby 

Favourable signs: Dhanns, Simha 


A Course in Indian Astrology 189 

Matters to be guarded against Maesha-borns should control 
their haste, impatience and the tendency to win the top position in 
everything. Otherwise always they would have to quarrel with oth- 
ers, For instance, waiting in queue in a reservation counter might 
be too much for a Maesha-borns to tolerate. As there is high prob- 
ability of wounds due to cuts one has to.be very careful when using 
tools etc. It is advisable that before undertaking any. responsibility, 
they think about the consequences. Nothing should be undertaken 
in a haste, though there would be tendency to do so. If Maesha- 
borns are involved in arguments with others invariably it would 
end up with bitterness or quarrel, therefore it is advisable to avoid 
arguunents. 


General Features and Characteristics of Maesha 
Lagna: 


These are summarised in the following slokas: 


Bandh-dwaeshyastanu- Krusa-prathighavaan Maanee 
Vivaada-priya: 
Sooroa durbbalajaanur-astthiradhana: Kaamee- 


Vadhoo-vallabha: 
Vruththaathaamra viloachanoanrutha-paroa Bheerurjalae 
Kshiprabhuk 
Krooroa vikshatha-vigrahaKriyathanow jaatha: 
pumaan — sarvadaa. 


The Sign Vrischika (Scorpio) 


UNIT 44 


Of the two signs owned by Mars we have learned about the 
masculine (odd) sign Maesha which is also a fiery sign. The second 
sign of Mars is a feminine (even) sign- Vrischika, meaning scor- 
pion. [tis a Watery sign and issaid to be a sign of “secrets” (Chhanna- 


190 A Course in Indian Astrology 
paapa-raasi). 

Vrischika is the éighth sign of the zodiac extending from 210° 
to 240° . Itincludes the asterisms, the fourth quarter of Visaakha 
Anuraadha and Jyeshta. 

Vrischika is totally different from Maesha, though both are 
owned by Mars. Maesha is movable, masculine, odd Prushtoadaya 
and night sign while Vrischika is an immovable, feminine, even, 
Seershoadaya and day sign. 

No major planet has its exaltation in this sign but Moon is 
debilitated in it. (Ketu is said to have its exaltation in Vrischika 
and Rahu has its debilitation in Vrischika -see Unit 10) 

Vrischika is a friendly sign for Sun and Jupiter and neutral 
sign for Mercury and Venus For Saturn it is an inimical sign. 

Vrischika is a long sign (Deergha-raasi) while Maesha is a 
short one. Vrischika is symbolised by a scorpion and is classified as 
a Keeta-raasi (that is, a reptile sign). Paraasara describes it as a 
multiped sign of small size (body). 

'.... swalpaanga: bahupaad brahmanoa balee 


Soumyastho dinaveeryaddyoa vimsakoajalabhoovaha: 
Roama-swaaddyyathi-theekshnaangoa-vruschikascha 
2k kujaadhipa: 


Vrischika represents the genital organ of the Kaalapurusha, 
being the eighth sign. When the sign has afflictions and becomes 
the house of disease in nativities, diseases associated with sexual 
organs are possible. 

Vrischika is said to be a sign of secrets and is a difficult sign.. 
It is the second of the Moaksha-thrikona (Kataka-Vrischika and 
Meena) is inauspicious for the ascendent; and it is a Raasi- 
Gandaantha (sign-edge). If born in Vrischika sign the native may 
be a first rate hypocrite or he may be a perfect gentleman depending 
upon the planetary relations of the sign. Afflictions of the sign would 
make the native mean and sinful as well as hiding the sins to him- 
self. As the scorpion the native may dig his own grave. 


Characteristics of Vrischika Lagna: 


The broad generalisation about those born in the Vrischika 
Lagna is given by the sloka 
Moorkhoa Vrischika-lagnajcathichapdloa Maandbanee 
sajjanah ‘ 
Dwaeshee —‘ Kroora-visaala-druk Nrupa-hithoa 
Prachchannapaapa: Khala: 

Roagee Baalyavidhow Viyuktha-janakow- Vrutthoaru- 

janghaanvitha: 


A Course in Indian Astrology 19] 

Paatthoajankitha-paani-paadapihatthaa syaal- 

Kroora-kar moagradhee: 

(The Vrischika Lagna born would be a simpleton with self- 
respect, rich, hating good people, with cruel and broad eyes, liked 
by the ruler, wicked and hiding one's sinful deeds; in childhood he 
would suffer diseases and separating from parents; the thighs and 
calf muscles would be well-formed and the palms and feet would be 
having marks of lotus; the native would be cruelin deeds and would 
be of high intelligence.) 

This forms only a basis and it does not mean that all the na- 
tives of Vrischika are as given above; the results given above would 
be considerably altered by the distribution of planets. 

Actually when the Moon is in Vrischika, precisely the same 
characteristics would be shown according to Varaahamihira. Hence 
when both the Moon and the Ascendent are in Vrischika the 
characteristics as given above would be more or less completely 
shown. When the Moon sign is Vrischika, the native is described by 
Varaahamihira in Bruhatjaathaka as, 

pruthula-nayana-vakshe: vruththajanghoarujaanur- 

Janakaguruviyuktha: saisavae vyaadhithascha 

Narapathikulapoojya:pingala: Kroorachaeshtoa 

jhashakulisa-khagaanka: chchanna-papoalijaatha: 

The native with Moon in Vrischika will have large eyes and 
face; will have rounded thighs, knees and ankles; will have to be 
away from parents and gurus in childhood; will be suffering from 
diseases in childhood; will be deserving to be honoured by kings 
and lords; will have light honey colour for the body, will be déing 
cruel deeds like beating and killing; and will do sinful acts and con- 
ceal it as a secret; when the Moon is in the first decanate (= 
Draeknana = one third of a sign or 10 ) the palms and under feet 
would be marked with the sign of fish; in the second decanate the 
mark would be of that of vajra (a weapon) and inthe third decanate 
the marks would be that of a bird. 


Compare the descriptions of the Vrischika ascendent and that 
of the moon-sign Vrischika. They are more or less the same. There- 
fore the Moon sign also-as the ascendent sign-determines the gen- 
eral tendencies of the native. As a result, in order to derive the 
general nature of a native, the wise, astrologer must combine the 
Lagna-indications and the moon sign (Janmalagna) indications skil- 
fully. These are also to be modified by the positions of each planet. 

Vrischika is an immovable sign and hence natives of vrischika 
(Lagna or moon in vrischika) would be of firm determination and 


192 . A Course in Indian Astrology 
would be having very clear aims. They can never remain idle in 
anything. When hindrances increase their earnestness in action 
also will increase. They never yield and would fight till their aim is 
reached. 

They are of a brilliant nature intellectually and in thinking. 
Once they realise their own capacities they reach their goal and 
show their abilities. As vrischika is watery sign they would be of 
excellent ideas and imagination as well as feeling for others. They 
have a high possibility of developing intuition (Jnaanadrushti). 

Due to the lordship of Mars (as the Maesha sign). Vrischika 
ascendents would show hastiness, self-confidence, courage, inde- 
pendence, prestige etc. There would also be a tendency to rule over 
others. In every thing they go to the extremes and due to their 
boundless self-confidence they never yield to others. They would be 
branded as too hasty. 

In order to (or as a consequence of) mental chaos some of 
them may get boozed. They have special taste for learning occult 
sciences and also psychology. Rationalism weuld be prominent. They 
may not discard customs and rituals but they would never be blind 
followers. They would not like loose talk. Though they have a ten- 
dency to complete anything at the last moment in a hasty way, they 
usually come successful. 

Though Vrischika-borns are very open in their conversation 
they have a special capacity to keep secrets to themselves and to 
make fun of others as well as to cast sarcastic words on others. In 
spite of their open and affectionate behaviour to others, once they 
feel that the companion is cheating, they weuld suddenly turn re- 
vengeful 

Though they are pleasure seekers, they invite dangers be- 
cause of their own actions, 

Those who have a critical mind, would criticize the existing 
theories and try to establish new ones. 

In financial matters they usually suffer ups and downs. The 
first half of the life would not be so prosperous, during the second 
half there is possibility of wealth earned through marriage and from 
far away places. Usually they would earn through unrelated occu- 
pations. Though they may have several co-borns (or persons of that 
status), at the end they would be alone. The father of a Vrischika 
born would suffer ups and downs in several ways. Many Vrischika- 
Lagnas have twin children. 

There is the possibility of secret love-affairs. The partner in 
life would have troubles by disease, slipping down, animals or ene- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 193 
mies, Sometimes there might be a second marriage also. 

In the field of arts and theatrical performances they get a 
number of companions. Though they would be happy with family 
members and friends, at the age of thirty, there would be possibil- 
ity for troubles- Love-affairs would lead to some difficulties. During 
their stay abroad there is possibility of accidents, but will escape 
fortunately. 

Parts of body associated with Vrischika-Genital organs, 
Kidney, urinary bladder, anus, excretory organs, ovary gland, pros- 
tate gland, 

Disease:- when malefics are associated with Vrischika, uri- 
nary diseases are possible. When Jupiter and Mars.are connected 
with the sign, troubles of the prostrate glands are possible. Vris- 
chika-borns are generally high-sexed. There would also be a ten- 
dency to go beyond sexual etiquette. Disease of sexual organs are 
possible. Depending on the causative malefic many 'concealed' dis- 
eases are possible. When Saturn is associated with Vrischika blad- 
der stones may affect the native. 


The disease of the vrischika-borns are controlled by the plan- 
ets occupying Maesha and those occupying the asterisins of Mars 
(who is the lord of Maesha which is the sixth house) They would 
cause brain-troubles, nervous diseases, swelling, coma, 
somnambulism and the like. 

Things:- Explosives, bombs, crackers, knife, sword, liquor, 
oils, medicines, acids, chemicals, petroleum products, poison, chloro- 
form. spirits, groundnut. 

Places:- Forsaken well, drains, useless places near water, 
marshy place, kitchen, polluted brooks, slaughter house, meat mar- 
ket, operation theatre, closets, leather curing and processing places, 
laboratory, cemetery. 

Days:- Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday are auspi- 
cious. Friday is not financially auspicious. Wednesday may bring 
trouble from friends. Saturday is definitely inauspicious. 

Sunday, is good for influencing people, Tuesday for competi- 
tions, Monday for travel and Thursdays for marriage aud for start- 
ing account in banks, Ou Wednesday no deed should be signed. 

Colours: - Yellow, red, orauge, cream-these are good colours 

Gems:- Yellow sapphire in gold ring is very auspicious. ]n 
case there is any legal dispute wearing red gems will be beneficial. 
For foreign travel and higher education pearls of cream colour is 
good. For constant progress and prosperity light red or cream gems 
are pcod. 


194 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Numbers:- 1, 2,3, 4, 7 and 9 are auspicious while 5, 6; and 8 
are not good. 
Planets:- Most auspicious planets for vrischika-ascendent is 
Sun. Sun, Moon and Jupiter are beneficial Mercury is malefic as 
also venus. Moon in the seventh and Jupiter in the 10th are good. 
sun and Moon are Yoaga-Kaarakas. Saturn is neutral. These are 
summarised as follows: - 
Soumya-Bhouma-Sithagpaapaa: subha-aekoa- Nisaakara: 
Soorya-Chandramasaavaeva bhavaetheaam yoagakaarakow 
Jeevoa-na hanthaa, soumyaadyaa: hanthaarea 
maarcakadahvayaa: 
Thaththath-phalaanivijnaeyaanyaevam urischika- 
janmana: _ 


Signs: - 


Vrischika boras are more compatible with those in Vrischika, 
kataka, kanya and Meena. The eighth sign Mithuna is not favour- 
able, 

Matters for caution:- sarcastic remarks, particularly about 
others must be checked, It would be foolish to believe that the as- 
sistants and servants will]. do all the work entrusted with. control 
your anger. Abandon selfish thoughts. Do not feel sorry for losses. 
‘Ifthe vrischika-born does not take care of these, he is likely to do 
harm to the society. 

Occupation:- chemistry, medicines, drinks, Imsurance, steam 
engines, motor engines, mines, water supply, dam, irrigation, slaugh- 
ter house, tea, coffee, tobacco, copper, tin, jaggery, horse, elephant, 
trapping wild elephants and occupations related to these. Surgery 
experts, research workers, secret police officers, armymen, dentists, 
butchers, mine worker, blacksmiths, military personnel, navy per- 
sonnel etc. are related to vrischika-sign. 

Finance:- As the lord of the second and fifth houses is Jupiter 
(the significator of wealth), usually the Vrischika-Ascendents do 
not have financial difficulties, but they may not save much. In an- 
ticipation of income they would spend ahead. 

Family life:- The relation with the wife may not be quite 
smooth for most vrischika-borns. They like praising words from the 
wife, but once the wife disagrees with them in anything suddenly 
they become quarrelsome. However they would take all efforts to 
make the wife happy, They are very keen that the wife should openly 
show affection. 

The house 2, 7, and 11 related to marriage are all beneficial 


A Course in Indian Astrology 195 
to Vrischika-Lagna-natives. All these houses are auspicious- Dha- 
nus (of Jupiter), Vrishabha (of venus) and kanya (of Mercury). If 
the lords of these sign are not weak and are not afflicted the native 
would get on smoothly with the partner. In family life the native 
would never stop quarrelling till wrong ideas and notions are ac- 
cepted by the wife. 

Females born in vrischika would be usually devout and un- 
selfish. They would be of beauty, health and obedient nature. For 
females it is advantageous to have the husband born in vrischika. 
But when the female is born.in vrischika and there are malefic 
significations in the nativity, there would be frequent quarrels with 
the husband. Thus in matrimonial affairs one has to be careful be- 
fore choosing a vrischika-born partner 


Mercury (Budha) 


UNIT 45 


Having familiarised with the various aspects of, Moon and 
Mars as well as the signs owned by them, we will, inthis unit learn 
about Mercury or Budha a planet sometimes described as the son of 
Moon. (Saumya). Budha is a very important and interesting planet. 

Sun is the spirit and soul of kaalapurusha while Moon is the 
mind, Mars is his strength, Mercury is the speech of kaalapurusha 
(Vaak), and hence Mercury is spoken of as the lord of speech. The 
peculiarity of Mercury is that it has dual nature. Mercury becomes 
a malefic in association with malefics and a benefic when associ- 
ated with benefics. Some are of the opinion that Mercury does not 
have its own individuality. This remark should be taken only with 
caution. It refers to the beneficity and maleficity and not to other 
significtions. It is safer to consider Mercury as benefic which in 
association with malefic turns out to be a malefic. 

In another way also Mercury is ‘dual in nature It owns two 


196 A Course in Indian Astrology 
of the corner signs which are Dwiswabhaava signs (common signs)- 
Mithuna and kanya. Also Mercury is described as signifying ‘Slis- 
hta-vaak' - words with dual meanings. 

Mercury is also described as a messenger planet. which fulfils 
the work with which he is entrusted, by some one else. This is also 
because of the dual nature-benefic if associated with benefic and. 
malefic if associated with malefic. However, by itself Mercury is a 
benefic-Subha. 

Mercury mainly signifies the intellect ( Budhi) and also ‘Vidya’ 
(education.) If Mercury is strong in a nativity, the native would be 
intelligent, having good common sense understanding and analytical 
and grasping capacity. He will be able to grasp anything quickly 
keep it in memory and recall that skill at the proper occasion. Mer- 
cury gives abilities for political thoughts and arguments, for criti- 
cal analysis, for using reasons and to take proper decisions. Natives 
with strong Mercury would be interested to go abroad and for fre- 
quent short journeys. They have a special gift to learn occult sub- 
jects and in doing so they may not require the help of a teacher or 
an initiator. Usually they would learn several languages. 


Mercury being a dual planet, Mercurians would be having 
two opinions in most things andhence they would find it difficult to 
take decisions; Their decisiqns woidd be altered also. For the same 
reason their minds would be wandering from one thing to another. 
If they do not take special care, they may find it impossible to learn 
or understand anything completely. Inspired by advises they would 
constantly change their decisions. Unsteady mind and a bit of inde- 
cision are then characteristics 

Mercury is a planet that likes conversation and it signifies 
pleasant conversation. so, most salesmen, insurance agents, public 
relation officers, preachers, orators, propagandists and 
multilinguists would be natives with strong Mercury. Though wa- 
vering, many prominent Mercurians like diversity in activity and 
ideas. In fact they can shape out excellent ideas but many of them 
may not materialise because of the tendency to expect perfection in 
everything. Strong and beneficial Mercury would make the natives 
great scholars, famous orators, mathematicians, engineers, account- 
ants, auditors, experts in business transactions, artists, sculptors. 


Mercurians are very trustworthy and would never cheat. But 
when Mercury is afflicted by malefics (except Sun) the native might 
be treacherous and cunning and he would use his crooked and effec- 
tive schemes to trap others; they would not stick on to their words. 
Writing anonymous letters, giving false statements, faking docu- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 197 
ments, spreading scandals, forgery and such things indicate an af- 
flicted Mercury. They would go on boasting about their false ca- 
pacities. They would not usually have a permanent residence, opin- 
ion and occupation. Opportunism would be their way of life. 

Mercury is associated with education and maternal uncle and 
hence is described as vidyaakaaraka and Mathula Kaaraaka. Mer- 
cury is described as the prince among planets: 

See Budhoa Raajakumarakea: 

Budha is further described as follows 

'Vapu; __sraeshta;—_ slishta-vaak-cha_hiathi-haasya-ruchir- 

Budha: 
pithavaan Kaphavaan vipra= maarutha-prakruthi- 
sthatthaa' 

Among the significations, Mercury chiefly indicates speech 
(vagk), knowledge (jsaanam) 

'_... Kshithirapi-vachanavanaanam-indcasthancaja:’ 

However there are several other significations. Some of the 
authorities may be quoted in this context to describe the sig- 
nifications of Mercury. 


(1) ‘Jyoathir-vidyaa maathula-ganithakaarya: 
narthana-vaidya-haasa-bhee-sree-silpavidyaadi-Kaar koa 
Budha': 


(Budha is the significator of astrology, education (learning), 
maternal uncle (and nephew), mathematics, dancing, medical prac- 
tice, entertainments, fear, prosperity, art of sculpture and other 
fields of learning) 

(2) ‘Phaladeepika’ of Manthraeswara gives the following sloka, 
which is more elaborate: 

Paandithyam suvacha: Kalaanipunathaam 

vidwathsthuthim maathulam 
vaakchaathuryam upaasnaadi patuthaa 
vidyaasuythukthim Mathim 

Yajnam vaishnavakarma satyavachanam 

Sukthirvihaarasthalam 

Supam bhaandhava yowvaraajya suhrudasthad 

bhaaginaeyam Budhaath' 

(Learnedness, good speech (words), expertise infine arts, be- 
ing praised by the learned, maternal uncle, ability to use the appro- 
priate word at the appropriate time effectively, upaasanaas, learn- 
ing, good reasoning, intellect, yaagas, rituals associated with Vishnu, 
truth, shells (oyster, conch etc.), monasteries, sculpture, building 
art ete. relatives, princely matters,.friends and nephews are to be 


198 A Course in Indian Astrology 
judged from Budha), 

More elaborate fists are given in other classical texts like 
‘Utharakaalaamrutha’. These significations taken from a number 
of works on astrology are given below. 

Speech, education, princeliness, skin, earth, green colour. 
soodra, eunuch, north rajoaguna, gold, astringent, morning, burial 
ground, birds, spherical shape, dual character, Villages, Sarad sea- 
son, water, maternal uncle, conversation with frequent laughter, 
Atharvaveda, nerves, house, green dress, love of talk, broad ears, 
sportive, cunningness, funny talk, earnestness. open behaviour, very 
effective talk, happiness, (relaxation), disbelief, love of vehicles, 
cheating, dependence on servants, wuconcern about family, elec- 
tronics, scientific instruments, pen, striking new paths, occupations, 
capacity to hide sorrows, learnedness in several subjects, being jack 
of all trades but master of none, Knowledge of fine arts, spiritual 
interests, discovery of truth, shells, Vishnupooja, writing materi- 
als, friends, entertainment, nephew (sonof sister), shepherd, Vishnu, 
Garuda (kite), sparrow, cat, arithmetic, horse, treasury, article for 
publication, Brahmin, cavalry, multi-storeyed building, sculpture, 
astrology, temple, emerald, child, sacrifice, naval, linguistics, blood 
testing, clerk, bills, educational institutions, Vaishnava temple, mes- 
senger, meditation, green peas, yarns, desire for bribery, printing 
journalism, publication, aunt, camphor, step- mother, flower, fruits, 
gems, play ground, games, planning, muteness. 


Occupations associated with mercury: 


Accountant Announcer Clerk Ambassador 
Apprentice Commentator Advertiser Auditor 
Editor Correspondent Critic Educator 
Sculptor Orator Engineer Telecommunication 
Electronic expert Artist writer Postman 
Messenger Agency Astrologer Playwright 
Stroryteller Painter Dealer of toys 
Inventor of useful machines (Kathaapravachanam 
or dancer) Maker of mechines and devices 
Contractor for entertainments Printer Publisher 
Planning expert Salesman Propaganda 

Preacher Journalist, Proofreader Mimicry and similar 
Funny arts Gambler 

Travel agent Cinema based occupation 


Dealer of archeological materials. 
When associated with Mars, industries, factories, chemistry 


A Course in Indian Astrology 199 
(with sun). motor engineer (association with Venus), marine engi- 
. heer (when mars and mercury are in watery sign) etc are indicated. 

With Jupiter, mercury signifies journalist, correspondent 
writer, cashier, auditor, bank agent, revenue officer (Mars also). 

Conjunction of Mercury and Venus in favourable positions 
indicates musicians, shareholder, writer, orator, travel agent, dealer 
in cosmetics, ornaments, dresses and sweets. 

Sun-Mercury conjunction is very good and it is described as 
Nipuna Yoaga. Though planets are said to be combust in conjunc- 
tion with the Sun (Mouddyam) a weak situation like debilitation in 
the case of Mercury it is good. 

Mercurians can pick up any job and they become very suc- 
cessful. They are found in all fields of life. 

Disease: Blocking of Urinary tract, fever, depression, mad- 
ness, mean talk, eye-diseases, throat-diseases, poisoning, skin -trou- 
bles, leucoderma, fire-accidents, stomach diseases, leprosy, blood- 
lessness, diseases of the nervous system, fainting, dumbness, indi- 
gestion etc. 

Location: Abode of the learned, Vishnu temple, courts, assem- 
blies, monastries, sports field, places of entertainment, advocates 
office, education institutes. 


Mercury and other planets: 


As the basic nature of Mercury is determined by the planets 
associated with it, the relation with other planets is more impor- 
tant for Mercury than for other planets. 

For Mercury Sun and Venus are friendly, Moon is inimical 
and others are neutrals. It must be noted that the position of Mer- 
cury in any nativity would be within 28 from the Sun. (If you find 
the Sun and Mercury in any nativity to be marked by separated by 
more than 28 you can say that one of the positions or both should 
be wrong). When Sunand Mercury are favourably associated (as 
already stated) it would make the native very learned and intelli- 
gent. Some astrologers are of the opinion that the weakness due to 
being combust in the proximity (within 17 ) of the Sun does not 
exist, as several famous engineers and astrologers as well as math- 
ematicians have Sun and Mercury in conjunction, As was stated 
ear her this special combination of Sunand Mercury.is called Nipuna- 
yoaga, conferring knowledge and brilliance on the native. However, 
the other individual significations of Mercury might suffer due to 
the Sun combination (Moudhya-Doasha). 


Mercury-Moon association confers on the native brilliance, 


200 A Course in Indian Astrology 
strength, multilingual abilities, Knack of framing novel ideas; in- 
terest in travel, optimism, absence of disappointment and special 
expertise in correspondence lecturing and conversation. 

If the above association is unfavourable, the native would al- 
ways be moady. sorrowful thoughts would haunt him. Nervous dis- 
eases, indigestion lack of money, enmity to the public etc also may 
be caused. He is likely to he duped by relatives and during travel. 

Favourable association of Mars and Mercury signifies good 
health, earnestness and exemplary activity. It also confers on the 
native the capacity of putting to practise novel ideas. When Mars is 
malefically associated with Mercury the native would be cruel, 
unthoughtfiul, hasty of short temper and would provoke others Epi- 
lepsy, brain disorders, stomach pain, piles, fistula-are also possible. 
Suchevil combination may also lead to legal disputes, stealing, scan- 
dals and too much daring. Loss may be incurred in speculative trans- 
actions. When associated with the houses 6, 8 and 12 the native 
might be deceived. 


Auspicious relation between Jupiter and Mercury indicates 
just and honest intellects, very broad mentality, spiritual thoughts, 
creative activity, optimism, earnestness and contentment are also 
signified. Sympathy, charity, confidence, beliefin God, fear of sins, 
religious belief and pilgrimage are also the result of favourable 
Jupiter-Mercury relation. Many such natives become good astrolo- 
gers. A malefic association with Jupiter cause hindrances in all the 
significations of Mercury. Difficulties, misfortune, loss in transac- 
tions, disputes, tax-arrears, damaging reports, notoriety, ill health 
and accidents during travel are also possible. 


Benefic Venus-Mercury combination makes the native always 
pleasing and happy. He will be rich and would enjoy a very happy 
married life. The partner in life would be intelligent and beautiful. 
Venus-Mercury conjunction is also indicative of learnedness in sub- 
jects like grammar, music, fine arts like dancing and of handsome 
appearance and exemplary behaviour. 

Benefic association of Mercury and Saturn gives the native 
steady tendency for endeavour, determination and sharp intelli- 
gence as well as memory. It also gives patience, toleration, endur- 
ance and political leadership. Malefic influence of Saturn leads to 
undue delay and despair in all attempts, debts, diseases, lack of 
memory. low wealth, weak intelligence and a weak body. 


Effects of Mercury in the Twelve Houses 


First house: Learnedness, astronomy, magic, astrology, 


A Course in Indian Astrology 2601 


mathematics, engineering, interest in education and learning, un- 
steady character, wavering mind, attractive appearance, brilliance, 
short travels, smart behaviour. 

Second House: Teaching, writing, meditation, commission- 
earning from publicity, publication, book selling, writing books, 
press-such occupations, more than one occupation, side business, 
earning, landed property, excellence in speech, effective arguments, 
intelligence, salesmanship. 

Third house: Broad vision, open mind, plenty of travels, 
opportunities for teaching, learning, reading, literary work and 
publications, happiness and fortunéthrough coborns, wavering mind 
and circumstances to be cheated. 

4th house: Healthy body, material happiness, plenty of friend- 
ship, pleasant family atmosphere, frequent shift of residence, in- 
come from land, mines, estate, journals and library, very intelli- 
gent mother. 

5th house: More of mental happiness than physical happi- 
ness, trouble due to constant obstacles and mental worries, possi- 
bility of being a good preacher or minister, intelligent children. 

6th house: Quarrel labour trouble, chemistry, medicine- 
manufacture, nervous weakness, excessive efforts, tendency to in- 
flict pain on oueself (beating oneself, suicide etc) pain in stomach, 
disagreement with maternal uncle, loss due to legal disputes, fin- 
ger-diseases, hindrance to education. 

7th house: Good and intelligent wife usually with a job, exper- 
tise in entertainments tendency to exhibit, possession of vehicles. 

If the 7th house is the debilitation sign of Mercury or an inuni- 
cal sign, occupation of Mercury indicates a cruel wife or a wife of 
doubtful morality. 

‘Saumyae neechaaraathibhae sapthmasthae' 

Rhaaryaa dushtaa jaarinee vaisikee vaa. This dictum is from 
the 13th chapter of Jaathakaadaesamarga, a well known and popu- 
lar work on Astrology. 

8th house: Disputes with those with whom there are trans- 
actions, disagreement with neighbours, taking part in funeral rites, 
partial stroke. nervous weakness, long life, wealth, helping rela- 
tives, agreeable to people. 

9th house: Education, wealth, virtues, charitability, good 
manners, doing only noble deeds, rhetorical capacities, liberality, 
nobility, greatness, foreign travels, higher education. 

10th house: Success in industry, promotion in service, more 


202 A Course in Indian Astrology 
responsibilities in service, éducationist, electricity, railway etc, re- 
search, good house, vehicles. 

lilthhouse: Earning properties, social work, noble friends, 
mathematics, astrology, liberal activities. 

12th house: Misfortune for mother and maternal uncle, very 
few children, laziness, poverty, interest in vedantha and occult sci- 
ences, anxiety, petty quarrels, scandals, hitting upon ideas which 
are not hit upon by others. 

Note: It may be noted that all the.above indications are very 
general and one has to use these only as ‘indications’ for a proper 
analysis. For instance, the dictum given above that if Mercury oc- 
cupies the sign of debilitation or inimical signs identical with the 
seventh house the wife of the native would be cruel or would be 
secretly having a soft corner for other men or be a prostitute, should 
not be used verbatim in all cases: When Mercury is the lord of the 
seventh house, the dictum should never be used. In fact the indica- 
tions would be just the opposite. Be careful in your prediction. Your 
success is in deciphering the final indications about each house af- 
ter weighing all relations. Hasty conclusion must always be avoided. 
So also to pinpoint any particular effect, there must be more than 
one indication. 


Similarly, the effects are not experienced always throughout 
the life. For instance the significations of Mercury would be experi- 
enced during the ruling period of another planet, posited in an as- 
terism owned by Mercury. Each planet should get the proper au- 
thority for conferring what it promises. 


We shall conclude this unit with a little more about Mercury. 
Mercury in various signs: 


Maesha and Vrischika:- Mercury in the signs of Mars indi- 
cates, lack of interest in anything except gambling and food or drink, 
strong belief on those which cannot be directly seen, or felt or do 
not exist at all (like God, soul, post-death life etc), earning through 
treachery, poverty, possession of a mean wife, doing several bad 
and deceitful deeds in secrecy and professing to be noble and al- 
ways speaking untruth. 

Vrishabha and Thula:- Mercury in the signs of venus makes 
the native devoted to parents and teachers, always desirous of earn- 
ing more, having wife and children and charitable. 

Mithuna:-In his own sign Mithuna, Mercury makes the na- 
tive boasting about his own deeds but he would be scholar in sci- 
ences and music, instruments and such fine arts. The natives would 


A Course in Indian Astrology 203 
be always pleasing and nice in conversation and be interested in 
physical comforts and articles of pleasure. 

Kataka: Mercury in kataka (inimical sign) indicates possi- 
bility of earning through water-related devices or things (e.g. wa- 
ter-transport, shipping, fishing, pearls, sea weeds etc) and also in- 
dicates that the native would not be in good terms with his rela- 
tions. (Incidentally, Mercury is the son of moon who is Mercury's 
enemy planet). 

Simha:- When Mercury is posited in Simha in the nativity, 
the subject would be hated by women, though he would have lust 
for women, He would be poor not having children as well as happi- 
ness, ignorant, wandering and would get. irritated even for silly 
reasons. 

Kanya:- Kanya is not only owned by Mercury but it is 
Moolakshetra and also the sign of exaltation: Mercury in kanya 
signifies learnedness, liberality, charitability, virtues, happiness, 
scientific (rational) thinking, devoid of fear and patience. 

Makara and Kumbha:- The native with Mercury in these 
signs ofsaturn, would have to work under others, and would suffer 
due to work as a porter. 

Dhanus:- Mercury in Dhanus indicates agreeability to rul- 
ers (authorities) learnedness and truthfulness. 

Meena:- Meena is the sign of debilitation for Mercury and if 
posited in that sign the native would be an expert in foot wear re- 
pair and would be an excellent servant and similar professions which 
are considered to be of inferior status. 


204 A Course in Indian Astrology 


The Sign Mithuna (Gemini) 


UNIT 46 


We have learned in detail about three planets Sun, Moon and 
Mars, in former units, as also the Characteristics of the signs owned 
by them. In the last unit we have discussed the nature and indi 
cations of Mercury, the curious planet often described as the planet 
of witty talk. You should collect some horoscopes of known persons 
and analyse them with respect to what you have learned. This is 
perhaps the most fruitful work that you can do to become a good 
astrologer capable of correct reading of the natal chart and also to 
be convinced about the dictums of astrology. Make your knowledge 
deep and thorough, otherwise it would lead to lack of confidence. 

Let us now learn about the characteristics of the sign Mit- 
huna (Gemini) owned by Mercury. It is the third sign of the zodiac 
extending from 60° to 90" of arc from the starting point. This sign 
comprises of the latter half (third and fourth quarters) of Mrigas- 
eersha, Ardra and the first three quarters of Punarvasu. In other 
words upto 6" 40' in Mithuna, Mrigaseersha is ruling, the next 13° 
20' ,that is from 6" 40' to 20° Ardra and the last 10 Punarvasu. 

The lord of the sign is Mercury and no planet has its exalta- 
tion or debilitation or Moolakshethra in this sign For the Moon, 
Venus and Saturn it is friendly sign, while for Mars and Jupiter it 
is inimical sign and for Sun it is a neutral sign. For Rahuand Kethu 
also (according to certain authors) Mithuna is a friendly sign. Mit- 
huna is also said to be the Moolakshaetra of Kethu. Thus in Mit- 
huna, Mars as well as Jupiter are weak. 

lt is a common sign auda masculine (odd) one. It is a sign 
strong at night and is a Seershodaya sign (all the other night signs 
are Prushtoadaya). It is a biped (Human) sign and is represented 


A Course in Indian Astrology 205 
by a couple, one of them holding a club and the other a veena. Mit- 
huna is the first of the Kaama-thrikona (Mithuna, Thula, Kumbha) 
and hence is a sign of 'desires'. It has been variously described as 
Airy (Vaayu-Rasi) earthly (Pruthvi-Rasi) and also as a water de- 
pendent (jalaasritha-Rasi) by different authorities. It is a sign of 
long stature. It is the first of the four corner signs (Mithuna, Kan- 
ya, Dhanus and Meena) and represents in the fixed charge, the 
southeast direction. 

As the third sign, it indicates the chest including shoulders 
and neck of the Kaalapurusha, 

Paraasara describes Mithuna as: 

Seershoadayee-nrumithunam sagadam-saveenakam 

Prathyang-maruth dwipaad-raathri _ balee- 

gTaamavrajoanilee 

Samagaathroa haridvarnoa Mithunaakhyoa Budhaadhipa: 

(Mithuna, owned by Budha is rising with the head, symbol- 
ised by a human couple with club and veena, with abode in the 
west, of airy nature (thathva), biped, strong at night, moving in 
village, of windy (vaatha) nature, of medium proportionate body 
and green in colour). 

Note that it is classified as an airy sign by Paraasara. Being 
the sign of mercury with his characteristic pleasing behaviour and 
artistic as scholarly tendencies. Mithuna is a very mild, peace lov- 
ing and nice sign. 

LYqa: 


Significations:- 

Dual nature masculinity cruelty  airiness 
green colour telephone television materials 
electric radio electronics newspaper 

even body dry nature 

equipoise of three-dosha houses few children 

noon midnight neck 

chest bedroom boxes study room 
Occupation: - : 
clerk trader salesman representative 

Editor reporter journalist lecturer 
Solicitor engineer advocate teacher 
Professor painter sculptor artist 
Musician dancer guide photographer 
Transport railway airlines secretary 
Personal assistant temple " monastery 


206 A Course in Indian Astrology 


cashier treasurer translator cycle scooter 
stationary embassy diplomat preacher 
critic broker messenger in- 
strumentalartist compositor proofreader 
gambler 


Favourable aspects of Jupiter indicates a journalist, while if 
Mars also joins, in addition to being a journalist, the native may 
own a press. Mithuna with a benefic Mars-association signifies ra- 
dio mechanic, compositor, typist etc. Favourable Mercury makes 
the Mithuna native a good mathematician or Astronomer. Many 
Mithuna-borns would have to travel on account of their profession, 
though usually they may not travel for fun or entertainment, ex- 
cept when associated with Venus Ticket examiners, auditors, camp 
clerks, representatives, inspectors, geological personnel etc. belong 
to this class. Usually they have a side-business also, like tuition, 
agency, auditing and accounting etc. 


Mithuna-borns would be misusing money that they handle if 
there is malefic aspect of Saturn. (If such a person is posted ascash- 
ier in a bank, there might be the possibility of misappropriation.) 


General Characteristics of Mithuna-borns:- 


As the sign is owned by Mercury who is associated with the 
intellect, those born in Mithuna would have a high thinking-power. 
But their mind would not remain steady in any particular matter, 
as the sign is a common sign and the lord is of a dual nature. Al- 
ways they desire for changes. They would be interested in writing, 
reading, correspondence and the like. They have a special capacity 
to be effective mediators and to influence others. Though many of 
them may not like travel, usually, they would have to travel widely. 
Due to a wavering mind they take pretty long time to take any 
decision. 


They may simultaneously have two occupations and are ca- 
pable of adjusting themselves according to environments. One can 
confidently entrust them with any work, but they may migrate to 
another before completing the one at hand; When there is someone 
to control them in this defect, their excellent abilities can be use- 
fully and effectively utilised. Others may find it difficult to under- 
stand them. They do not have much strength to suffer difficulties 
and obstacles. Without sticking on to one thing, they like diversity. 
Also they do not like to be sticking on to condition or rules or such 
restrictions. They analyse their own experiences and they would 
use this at the proper place and time ina very effective and advan- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 207 
tageous way; For the same reason their ability to grasp new con- 
cepts and ideas is very high. But this ability instead of being con- 
centratedin any one thing, gets dissipated to several things. 

Mithuna borns would shine well in fields like journalism, re- 
search, translation, criticism, planning, linguistic activities, teach- 
ing, translation etc. Many rationalists are also found among them. 
They would not blindly believe in anything. Like a commentator 
who discusses an original work, they have the ability to act accord- 
ingly. Usually they like friendship. They also have a tendency to 
put several questions to others and to acquire more knowledge. 

Though Mithuna ascendents have the inherent ability to work, 
and a strong intellect, they have the weakness that they do not 
stick on steadily to anything. If this is controlled no one would achieve 
such a success in life as a strong Mithuna-born. 

Patience and tolerance is found only to a limited extent. 

They are experts in discovering short-cut methods and also to 
use them. But some times they may apply their 'tricks' a bit too 
early. The same hastiness may be found also in their eating, walk- 
ing, thinking, relaxing etc. They must control this. 

According to a Tamil work on astrology, it is said that "the 
one born in Mithuna sign would be characterised by fame, fraud, 
sticking to customs, dual talk, observing fasts, nice words, self-in- 
terest fair complexion, and bile diseases. There is possibility of ail- 
ments at the age of three, danger from fire at the fifth year, danger 
from tools or weapons at the eighth, from enemies at the tenth, 
from windy diseases at the eighteenth and from eye disease at the 
twenty eighth. When benefice aspect the Lagna the native would 
five upto the sixty fifth year when he would die in the month Mit- 
huna, bright fortnight on the chathurdasi thithi when the asterism 
is Sravana and the day is a Friday at fourteen Ghatis past sunset". 


(Evidently, this prediction is too much for anyone who knows 
astrology. Every native of Mithuna would not die alike, even when 
the Lagna is aspected by malefics. The life of the native has to be 
judged not only from the Lagna but from other factors also) 

Married life: As already described, they have a knack of 
attracting and influencing others as also to deal with them wisely 
and nicely. As a result their married life is usually smooth and 
sweet (of course, if there are no affliction, otherwise). However some 
of them might be victims of 'dual' nature and might have two mar- 
riages or sometimes a liking to a woman other then one's wife. 

Mithuna-born women in addition to being a good housewife 
may have somejob or other occupations. 


* 208 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Handwriting: They have a tendency to write a little above 
the line and the writing would not have disfiguring and the writing 
would be usually fast. 

Disease: Disease caused by anxiety, excessive intellectual 
efforts and mental chaos, diseases of the lungs, heart and blood 
channels, chronic cold, nasal flow, pleurisy, cough, TB, disease of 
the arms, diseases listed in the case of Vrischika (sixth from Mit- 
huna) like diseases associated with the genital organs are all possi- 
ble. 

Favourable Signs: Thula, Kumbha, which are trines with 
Mithuna, Mesha and Simha are also compatible with Mithuna. 

Places: Boxes, rooms where costly materials are kept, suit 
cases store rooms, walls, hills and other elevated spots, dining hall, 
play grounds, educational institutions. 

Countries; London, Nuremberg, Plymouth, San Francisco, 
America, Belgium, Wales, Canada, Armenia, 

Things: Bus, car, railway, train, taxi, aeroplane, parachute, 
magazines, books, news paper, newsprint, calendar, microscope, tel- 
escope, tools in astronomy, green-gram, cotton, green things. 

Good days: Wednesday, the Kaalahoara of Mercury, the 
asterisms Aslaesha, Jyeshta and Revathi, andthe Lagnas Mithuna 
and Kanya. Thursday is the day of fortune. Monday is good for in- 
come but Saturday brings obstacles. Tuesday would involve quar- 
rels and disagreements but there would be success at the end. Im- 
portant things are as for the Mesha-Lagna. Saturn isnot a Maaraka 
Mercury, if strong confers Yoga. According to some astrologers the 
lord of the second, moon does not inflict death. If Mercury occupies 
Meena, there is possibility of disagreement with elder brother. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 209 


The Sign Kanya (Virgo) 


UNIT 47 


Kanya is the sixth sign of the zodiac and extends from 150 to 
180 of arc from the origin. 

The asterisms Uthra (last .three quarters), Hastha and the 
first half of Chithra are included in Kanya. 

As Mithuna, this is also a common sign and a feminine sign. 
It is an earthy sign (Prithwi-Rasi), a long sign and a cold one. 

Mercury is not only the lord of Kanya but has its exaltation 
point and Moolakshetra also in Kanya. Venus, has its debilitation 
point in Kanya. For moon, Venus, Saturn and Rahu it is a friendly 
sign, for Mars and Jupiter it is an inimical sign while for the sun it 
is aneutral sign. 

As Venus (signifying worldly prosperity) has its debilitation 
in Kanya while Mercury (the significator of learning and intellect) 
has its exaltation there. Kanya-natives would consider intellectual 
attainments as more desirable than worldly pleasures. As the prov- 
erb says, Lakshmi (the goddess of fortunes and wealth) and 
Saraswathi (goddess of learning) would not be together. For the 
Kanya-natives, their learning and intellect are their wealth. (For 
Meena, the reverse is true). 

Kanya is a human (biped) sign which is also a day sign. Itisa 
Seershoadaya sign. The sign is symbolised by a virgin in a canoe 
with a flame. Paraasara describes the Kanya sign as 

Paarvatheeyaatha Kanyaakhyaa Reaasirdinabalaanvithaa 

Seershoadayaa cha maddhyaangaa dwipaadyaamya 
charaa 
cha sad. 

Sasasyadahanaa _ vaisyaa chithravarnaaprabhanjinee 

Kumaree _thamasaa yukthaa baalabhaavaa Budhaadhipaa. 


210 A Course in Indian Astrology 
(The sign Kanya moving about in mountains (another mean- 
ing given is also called Parvathi’), is rising with the head, strong in 
the day, of medium body, biped, residing in the south, with vegeta- 
bles and fire in the hands, of the Vaisya caste, with multicoloured 
robes, with Thamo-guna and in her youth: its lord is Mercury. 

As the sixth sign it represents the following parts of the body 
of Kaalapurusha, below the naval. According to Varaahamihira, that 
is the abdomen, but according to others (Prasnamaarga, 
Jaathakaadesa), Kanya represents the stomach and this latter sig- 
nification is more popular among prasna-experts. 

For those born in Kanya Mars (as the lord of third house), 
Jupiter (as the lord of two quadrants- 4 and 7) and moon (lord of 11) 
are malefics. Venus (lord of 2 and 9) and Mercury are 
Yogakaarakaas. Saturn though lord of a trine (fifth has also the 
lordship of the unfavourable sixth and may be treated as neutral. 
Mercury and Venus in conjunction are significators as Raajayoaga 
(as lord of 10th and 9th). Though the lord of the second (Maaraka- 
position), Venus would not be inflicting death on the native. Mars 
Sun and also Jupiter have death-inflicting (Maaraka) inclinations. 
However, according to some authors conjunction of Jupiter and 
Venus in the fourth house is to produce Raajayoaga. 


‘Kuja-jeevaendavcpaapaa: Sukra aeka: Subhoa matha: 
Bhaargavaendusuthaavaevéthavaethaam  yoaga kaara kow 
Na hanthi Kavi-rannyaethu maarakaakhyaa:Kujaadaya: 
Kanyaabhuvaschathurtthasthow guru-suRkrow thu 
yoagadow”. 


Characteristics of Kanya natives:- 


Most Kanya natives would be showing gradual rise in life on 
account of their efforts, intelligence and abilities, though they may 
not be earning as much as they deserve, They are absolutely trust- 
worthy and honest. They would seldom lose their temper and are 
very cordial in their relationship to others. They are quickin grasp- 
ing anything and hence can shine in nearly all fields. 

They have a special ability to coordinate the work of their 
subordinates effectively. They execute everything neatly and give 
importance even for trivial things. Though they move closely to oth- 
ers it is difficult to know what is in their minds. They do not lose 
their temper easily, but if someone gives any prick to them they 
would not forget that easily and do not forgive them. Though they 
are stiff to some extent they may yield to nice words. 

Kanya natives have an inclination to literature, arts, drama 


A Course in Indian Astrology 211 
Vedanta, devotion to god. They would have the capacity to talk about 
these subjects. 

The childhood is usually full of troubles from ailments They 
usually enjoy their own earnings but not the paternal wealth. There 
is possibility of getting wealth from the wife. In financial transac- 
tions and through banks they would get benefits but gradually they 
might turn speculative in trade and may suffer heavy loss. Seldom 
do they get affectionate behaviour from the members of the family. 
Wounds are possible from animals. 

They may be having relations with women, sometimes even 
when the wife is there. So also frequent change of occupation and 
change of residence would be experienced by Kanya natives. 

Those natives who have more than one occupation simulta- 
neously should be careful as they are like a man with each of his 
legs in different boats. 

They. may be having, towards the end of their life landed 
properties in two places. They would have wide friendship and new 
friends would be gainedcontinuously. At the same time there would 
also be strong enemies who are jealous of them. 

They have the habit of thinking and weighing each step of 
their actions, and this may bring about delay in undertaking any 
work. But once they take up anything, they would fully concen- 
trate on it. And they insist that others also must be as earnest and 
perfect as they themselves are. 

Whatever work the Kanya native does, he does it with sys- 
tematic neatness. They have very quick capacity to find out the 
mistake, errors and fault of others. Consequently, they would shine 
in fields like auditing, inspection, proof reading, taxation and the 
like. 

When Mercury is strong in the nativity, they would be suc- 
cessful in reaching their goal, in spite of hindrances; but if Mercury 
is weak they may yield to the obstacles and abandon their efforts. 

They are usually cautious in every detail. For instance, dur- 
ing travel they woidd Keep their money in two or three different 
places. After each step in any of their actions, they would make 
sure that everything is okay and then only they would proceed. 
After inserting the letter in a cover, before sealing it usually they 
would take out the letter and check whether the signature has been 
put the date has been written etc. Similarly after locking the room 
of the safe, they would check sure that the lock is proper. During 
journeys, they would checkjust before starting, whether everything 
as planned has been taken in the luggage. 


212 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Kanya natives would keep strict accounts and would keep 
documents, letters receipts etc. systematically. So they shine in ac- 
counting and documentation. 

When the sign is aspected by Saturn, the native may become 
lazy. As the sixth sign, Kanya is the sign of diseases of the Kaalapur- 
usha, so Kanya natives would have fear from diseases, and they 
would be immersed in thoughts about the diseases. They have a 
special ability to put philosophical thoughts into actual practice. 


Occupation: - 


When the Sun and the lords of houses, 2,6,10 are beneficially 
associated with Kanya sign: medical officer, employment m the medi- 
cal departments, engineering, auditing, teaching, nursing home, 
dealing with scientific instruments. 

When the moon is similarly associated with the Kanya sign: 
employment connected with water, navy, oil companies,. textiles, 
inks etc. When Mars is similarly associated, press, printing, edit- 
ing, publication, writing etc. When Mars is unfavourably associ- 
ated, the occupation would be related to indecent or illegal means 
including robbery, bribery, black marketing etc. 

When a favourable Mercury is associated with houses 2,6,10 
and Kanya sign: broker, accountant, teacher, lawyer, writer, journal- 
ist, critic, commentator, registrar etc. 

When Jupiter is associated as above: literary, scientific, tech- 
nological and intellectual occupations, religion, law, insurance, fi- 
nance, stock exchange, shares, banking, embassy, temples, endow- 
ments. 

Sunilar positions of Venus: Musicians, artist, painter, sculp- 
tor, luxury materials, dresses, ornaments, sweets; spices and cosmet- 
ics. 

When Saturn is posited in beneficial relation with lords of 2, 
6, 10 and Kanya: Mathematics, Statistics, accounts, physics. If Mars 
also is favourable the occupation may be in the police, crime detec- 
tion or army. 


Indications of Kanya: 


Hips appendix fields can 
estate library bookshop 

milk centre Wet places vegetable store 
Store room honey Farm house 
rural products books almirah 


medicinal chest dark eyes curved brows 


A Course in Indian Astrology 213 
attractive lips White teeth handsome chin 
handsome limbs mountain 

Parts of Body, disease: Stomach, anus, dysentery, typhoid, 
frequent wounds, mental worry, discontentment, gall stone, anger, 
blood diseases, eczema, impatience. 

Handwriting: The upper part of letters would be better 
formed; the writing would be usually between lines. The letters 
would be thin and there will be a tendency to use sharp pens. 

Days: Wednesday and the kaalahora of Mercury are most 
suitable. Friday arealso favourable. Tuesday are unfavourable. Mon- 
days are not bad, Other days are not favourable. 

Colours: Favourable colours are green, white and yellow and 
unfavourable ones are red and blue. 

Countries: Turkey, Mesopotamia, Babylon, Assyria, Tibet, 
Greece, Switzerland, Brazil Bagdhad, Boston, Los Angeles. 


What Kanya natives must take care of: 


Due to the nature of analysing in detail everything and due 
to the expectation that all others are to be as exact and neat as 
themselves Kanya natives might have their friends and relatives 
estranged easily. Kanya natives should take effort to avoid this, 

The tendency to undertake new endeavours before complet- 
ing one at hand should be controlled. Due to the possibility of dis- 
eases like dysentery, food must be taken special care of. 

As the lords of 6 and 8 are top malefics, frequent cuts are 
possible; if cautious these can be avoided. 

Constipation and consequent mental worry possible. 

Tendency for drinking must be checked. As troubles, scan- 
dals, deceits and disputes are possible with partners in business 
(and life) and employees. In choosing the partners employer and 
the spouse, Kanya native has to be very careful. 

Selling of properties must be done in the ruling periods of 
Jupiter (or sub-periods) and never in the periods of Saturn and Mars. 

Dealing with those born on Monday, in Kataka sign, and in 
the asterisms Rohini, Hastha and Sravana would be favourable. 


214 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Jupiter (Guru) 


UNIT 48 


Having learned about the Sun, the Moon, Mars; and Mer- 
cury, as well as the signs they own, we shall now discuss in this 
Unit the influence of the planet Jupiter which is described by the 
terms ‘Guru’ and ‘Brihaspathi’ which signify the large size of the 
planet and also the benefic nature inherent in it. Jupiter mostly 
confers benéfic effects on natives while Saturn represents malefic 
effects, though under certain conditions and positions these plan- 
ets may behave in the opposite way. Jupiter has very important 
significations such as wisdom, prosperity, wealth, optimism, suc- 
cess, happiness, fortune, contentment, fame, and physical wellbe- 
ing. Saturn controls hindrances, deterioration, disappointment, sor- 
rows, defeat, discontentment, misfortunes etc. Thus the influence 
of these two planets which are very slow in their movement along 
the zodiac-deserve very great attention. In fact a favourable Jupiter 
signifies progeny, wealth, elder brother etc. It represents Saathwik 
qualities like godliness. 

For instance, the famous work Maadhaveyam of electional 
astrology gives the sloka: 

Doashaamburaasi-tharanaayaKrupaardra — chethah: 

Poatham  Sasarjja guru-sukramayam vidhaatha 

Praapnoathi doasharaasimanaena theerthwa 

Thaththeerajaani subhakaarya-phlaani loaka: 

(The compassionate Brahma created the floats Jupiter and 
Venus, in order to cross the sea of maleficity. Using these floats 
people cross the sea of Doshas and reach the opposite coast of auspi- 
cious Karmas). 

This gives clearly the importance of Jupiter and Venus in 
astrology. 

Mythologically it is the Jupiter (Brihaspathi) who is the Guru 


A Course in Indian Astrology . 215 
of the Devas. Astrologicallyit is the 'Gnaana' and 'Buddhi' (Wisdom 
and intellect) of the Kaalapurusha. Jupiter is also depicted as the 
profound teacher and adviser as well as the purohitha. Saivites pic- 
ture Jupiter as “Dakshinaamoorthy” while Vaishnvites consider him 
as "Vishnu". Jupiter is also capable of warding off all evils in 
nativities according to a dictum well known among astrologers:- 
“Nissaesha doasha-haranae subhavardhanae cha 
Veeryam guroaradhikamasthyakhilagrahaebhya:” 
(Among all planets Jupiter has the maximum ability to re- 
move all “doashas” (malificities) and to increase the auspiciousness). 
Jupiter, being the significator of saathwik qualities, natives 
with strong Jupiter would be helpful to others, contented, optimistic 
and of decent behaviour. Commonsense, sense of justice, broad- 
mindedness and self-confidence would be evident in them. Natives 
with favourable Jupiter would also have interest in learning, re- 
spectable knowledge of laws, religious and virtuous thinking, philo- 
sophic thoughts, leadership of institutions, governing capacities, 
interest, in Vedas and mythology, respect to elders and teachers 
and maturity in thought and actions. 


Jupiter being the lord of the sign Dhanus which is symbol- 
ised by a bowman with the lower half of a quadruped, it is said that 
a strong Jupiter favourable in Dhanus sign would make the native 
capable of achieving the target in life and interest in sports and 
adventures. Being the lord of the ninth sign of the zodiac, Jupiter 
confers on the native qualities liked by all. Being the lord of the 
Meena sign, Jupiter makes, a native peaceful, of steady nature and 
not easily influenced by bad advises. Jupiter signifies law also; this 
makes the native with favourable Jupiter, law-abiding, dutiful and 
sincere, 

At the times when Jupiter is favourable medical treatments 
are known to be more effective than at other times. Similarly peri- 
ods of beneficial Jupiter would make the native enjoy all kinds of 
successes, fortunes, frame honour and general co-operation; He 
might turn out to be a philosophic thinker and socially important. 
Prosperity of wealth, living means and mental happiness due to 
children. 


When Jupiter is unfavourable due to lordship and due to po- 
sitions the native would be of undesirable behaviour and character, 
with a tendency to waste his wealth. Carelessness, too muchofcon- 
fidence, borrowing, quarrels, loss, defeat in gambling and stocks 
exchange, daring actions troubles from debtors, sorrows through 
children, false prestige, inability to keep one's word and promises, 


216 


able Jupiter. 
Significations: 


Golden colour 
Phlegmatic disorders 
Gods 

Son 

Grandfather 
Minister 
Cashbox 

Wisdom 
Yellowish eyes 
Bulky body 
Charitable nature 
Calm conduct 
Belief in truth 
Helping others 
Soft behaviour 
Compassion 
Character 
Science 

Thapas 


Devotion to husband 
VIP's 

Horse 

Elder brather 
Praise 

¢ Oil 

Banyan tree 
Church 

Yoaga exercise 
Sanskrit 
Coconut tree 


Ornaments worn around the Neck 


Jaggeri 

Camphor 
Law-books 
Foreign country 
Higher education 
License 

Loan 

Passport 


A Course in Indian Astrology 
being deceived by others, loss of account of being surety to others, 
difficulty to repay loan-instalment, too much of eating, miscalcula- 
tions etc. are all experienced when Jupiter is unfavourable. In short 
all those significations of Jupiter would be offset by an unfavour- 


Yellow 

Duties (Dharma) 
Brahmin 
Relations 
Sathwaguna 
Adviser 

Learning 
Intellect 
Not-so-dark-hair 
Lion's voice 


. Good health 


Devotion to God 
Trustworthiness 
Royal honour 
Sweet words 


Opposition to injustice 


Behaviour 
Smruthi 
Sense.of Knowledge 


Happiness from husband 


Jack tree 

Saving 

Hacmantha Season 
Tall buildings 

Silk 

Pepul tree 
Northeast 
Pushyarag 
Contract 

Tubes 

Beauty 
Coin 

Bonus 

Festival 

Customs department 
Leave 

Literature 
Security 

Patron 


Fat (of the body) 
Actions (Karma) 
House 
Grandson 
Friend 
Treasury 
Stomach 
Priesthood 
Broad chest 
Financial thinking 
Vedanta 
Truthfulness 
Social service 
Affectionate nature 
Social honour 
Family and clan 
Learning Vedas 
Prosperity 
Controlled sense 
Sacrifice 
Swan 
Astrology 
Thighs 
Honey 
Clear voice 
Temple 
Almirah 
Jiamond 
Meditation 
Sacred thread 
Yaaga 
Pilgrimage 
Dharma 
News from distance 
Charity 
Waist' 
Liver 
Honorarium 
Prayer 


ACourse inindian Astrology 217 


Religion Rain Race horse 
Religious hooks Ship swelling 
Code of conduct Thursday Thunder 
Status University Pooja 
Ministership Goodmanner Preaching 
Learnedness Turmeric Salt 
Umbrella Certificate of honour 


Multicoloured clothes 

Parts of body and diseases:- Liver, growths, blood circula- 
tion, bodily fat, phlegm, eruption, swelling, thighs, diabetes, jaun- 
dice, Hernia, Skin diseases, Brain troubles. 

Places:- Temple, educational institutions, multistoried build- 
ings, palace, assembly, court, preaching hall, lecture hall, treasury, 
bank. 

Financial matters:- Open trade, manufacture of goods, su- 
perfluity, of money, foreign aid, increase of price of share, starting 
new companies, dividends, income through taxation, starting large 
schemes, buildings new residence and rebuilding old one, embassy. 

Materials:- Butter, ghee, fatty materials, spiced sweet, rub- 
ber, gold, tin, huge animals, books, medals, passport, presentation 
and gifts, rain. 

Jupiter is a masculine planet like Sun Mars. 

Jupiter rules over the Rig-veda. 

Unlike other planets Jupiter has special full aspect in the fifth 
and 9th houses. 

Jupiter owns the signs Dhanus and Meena the ninth and 
twelfth of the zodiac. 

Jupiter also rules the asterism Punarvasu, Visaakha and Poor- 
vabhadrapada. 

The planets Venus and Mercury are enemies of Jupiter while 
Saturn is neutral. All others are friendly. 

Among the signs Vrishabha. Thula, Kanya and Mithuna are 
inimical signs, Mesha, Simha Vrischika are friendly signs while 
Kumbha and Makara are neutral signs. In kataka (a friendly sign) 
Jupiter is exalted while in Makara it is in debilitation. Dhanus is 
the Moolakshethra. 

When Jupiter and Sun are beneficially associated in a nativ- 
ity, very good results would be experienced in occupation, character 
and mental attitude. Broadness of mind, if at all sick getting recov- 
ered easily. Charitability, good intellect etc, are also realised. Such 
natives would get financial gains, fame, and happiness through de- 
cent means. Moreover it is said that if such natives perform Soorya- 
narayana pooja regularly. they would get enhanced good results. 


218 ACourse in indianAstrology 
Favourable Sun might give opportunity, for the native for promo- 
tions. (when Mercury also is favourable the promotion might be 
because of the superior's death). Such native would shine as presi- 
dent mayors, bank officers, leaders of educational institutions, M.P's, 
M.L.A's etc. 

When Moon and Jupiter are in auspicious combination the 
native would attain nobility and high status infife. When they are 
in the Kendra position to each other the special combination is the 
well known Kesariyoga. Auspicious Moon Jupiter combination sig- 
nifies public recognition as just and noble, ability to develop noble 
concepts and ideals, moderation in spending, absence of disputes, 
absence of tendencies of gambling and the like. When such natives 
perform pooja for Rajaraajaeswari these good significations would 
be enhanced. 


Natives with Jupiter and Mars favourably posited, would be 
sincere and noble. They would not be misers and would be extrava- 
gant also. They would attain a high status in society and will be 
very successful in trade. They would complete any work undertaken 
by them neatly. Good physical power, earnestness, leadership and 
courage would also be possessed by such natives, They would get 
high status and recognition during the ruling periods of Jupiter 
and all their fortunes would be enhanced by offerings to Lord 
Subraimonia. 

When Mercury and Jupiter are auspiciously related, the na- 
tive would consider only the good aspects of everything. Under no 
circumstances would he lose his presence of mind. He will have the 
capacity to take the right decision, though there might be some 
delay in taking the decision, Such natives would shine in one or 
more of fields such as law, literature, foreign collaboration, publica- 
tions, editorship, advertising, mathematics, audit and accounting 
sometimes in more than one field. It is said that if these natives 
perform Sathyanarayana-pooja, the effects would be catalysed. 


Natives with Venus and Jupiter favourable, woidd lead a life 
blessed with both fortune and success. They earn plenty of wealth, 
will lead a very happy married life and a very elegant public hfe, 
They would not be deceived by others. They may enjoy political 
honour. They will have tendency to help their acquaintance. They 
shine in fields such as auditing, accounting, music, shares, car trade, 
jewellery trade and spice.trade. They are said to be more successful 
by offerings to Lakshminarayana. 

Jupiter and Venus are both auspicious planets, but the former 
is the Guru of Daevas, while the latter is the Guru of the Asuraas- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 219 
They differ widely in their significations and Venus is inimical to 
Jupiter, (For Venus, Jupiter is Neutral). Jupiter signifies spiritual 
heights, control of senses, sacrifice of worldly pleasure, meditation, 
Yoga and the like where as Venus signifies worldly pleasure, sen- 
sual happiness, luxury, sexual happiness. modern conveniences and 
the like. 

It is not surprising that Venus is debilitated in Jupiter's sign 
Meena. This epoch being Kali-yuga. Venus's significations are gain- 
ing importance and desirability whereas during the Krutha, 
Threatha and Dvaapara-yuga significations of Jupiter were con- 
sidered to be more important. 

The opposite behaviour of Venus and Jupiter is also evident 
from the positions of the signs they own. Thus for Vrishabha-na- 
tives and Thula-natives (these are signs of Venus) Jupiter is respec- 
tively the 8th and 11th lord and the 3rd and 6th lord all-malefic 
For the Dhanus natives Venus is the 6th and 11th lord while fpr 
Meena-natives Venus is the lord of 3rd and 8th lord-being malefic- 
spiritual heights and worldly heights do not go together. 

Jupiter in benefic combination with Saturn confers spiritual 
bent of mind on the native. He would discard worldly enjoyment as 
second in rank and would prefer spiritual and moral attainments 
giving importance to truth and Justice. such natives may practise 
Yoga and even become a sanyaasin. 

Jupiter is personified as a huge, impressive and serious person- 
ality of great wisdom a walking encyclopedia by authorities like 
paraasara: 

“Bruhadgaathroa Guruschaiva  pingaloamoordhd 

jaeRshana: 

Kaphaprakruthigoa dheemaan — sarvasaathravisaarada; 

(Jupiter is of a huge body with fight brownish eyes and hair 
with ‘Phlegmatic’ nature and he is of brilliant intellect and is most 
learned in all branches ofknowledge) No other planet is described 
in such superlatives and without any blemish. 

Among the tastes Jupiter rules sweetness. Similarly Jupiter 
signifies trees which bear fruits. Among things Jupiter signifies 
living things (Jeeva Dravya) and not mineral matter (Dhaathu) or 
vegetable matter (Moola dravya). It is Jupiter which represents the 
happiness (Sukha) oflife: 

Meda Mae Jeevoa-deevitha Sowkhyada:” 

Manthraeswara describes the essential significations of 
Jupiter, in his phaladeepika as 

Jnaanam Sadgunm-aatmajam.cha sachivam 

swaaramaechaaryakan 


220 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Maahaatmyam Sruthi-saasthra-dhee-smathi-mathim 
sarvoannathim-sadgathim 
Daeva-braahmana-bhakthim-adhvara-thapa:  sradhaam 
cha  Koasasthalam 
Vaidushyam vijithaendriyam dhavasukham —sammanam- 
aathmoedayaam. 
(Ultimate wisdom, good qualities, ministership, one's tradi- 
tions, guru (aachaaryas), greatness, vedas, saasthraas, memory, 
intellect, status of being the greatest, most desirable goal, devotion 
to the daevaas and the learned, yogas, thapas, concentration and 
perfection, treasury, learnedness, full control over the sense, hap- 
piness of marriage, gifts and compassion are all signified by Jupiter). 


Jupiter in Various Other Signs 


The result of Jupiter's position in various signs are described 
by Varaahamihira by two sloakaas in the eighteenth chapter of 
‘Bruhajjathaka (12 & 13) 

Saenaaneeibahu vitha-daara-thanayoa daatha — subhruthya: 


kshamee 
Thaejoadaara-gunaanvitha:suragurow jaatha: —pumaan 

Kowjabhae 
Kalyaahge: sasukhaarthamithra thanayasthyaageepriya: 

sowkrabhae 
Bowdhae bhooriparichadaatmja-suhrutsaachivya- 

yuktha:suk hee 

Chaandrae ratna-sutha-swadaara-vibhaupraajna: 


sukhairanvitha: 
Sunhae sydd balanaayaka: surdguradvukthancha 
yethchaandrabhae 
Swarkshae maandalikea naraendrasachiva: 
saenapathirvaa dhanee, 
Kumbhae_ karkitavath phalaani, Makarae_ neecholpavithoa 
sughee 
Jupiter in Meshaor Vrischika: (signs of mars) makes the 
native army chief, rich enjoying with wife and children, charitable, 
with good assistance, of such patient disposition capable of with- 
standing any evil, indefatigable, brilliant mild and compassionate, 
of desirable virtues, radiating, with good wives, good learning. plenty 
of wealth, good health, and glorious. 
In the signs of Venus (Thyla, Vrishabha):- Always without 
diseases splendid happiness, plenty of wealth, good relatives, sev- 
eral good children charitable liked by all. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 221 

In the signs of Mercury (Kanya-Mithuna): House dress, 
furniture and other convenience for pleasure several children, sev- 
eral relatives, possibility of rninistership in addition to enjoyment 
of those listed above. 

In the sign of Moon (Kataka):- several gems, children, 
wealth, wife or wives, abode, furniture, luxury materials, great intel- 
ligence, all sorts of enjoyment and happiness. 

In the Simha-sign:- All these listed for the kataka sign and 
also army-officer ship. 

In own sign (Dhanus, Meena):- The native would be a king 
or a minister or a lord or an army chief or at the best a very wealthy 
person. 

In Kumbha:- Same as those for kataka sign. 

In Makara (the sign of debilitation):- Crooked intellect, 
crooked action, having wealth just to take both ends meet, enjoying 
little happiness and mostly sorrowful. 

Varaalnnihira describes the effect of Jupiter in the various 
house in the eighteenth chapter of Bruhatjjaathaka, in acondensed 
way by the sloka: 

Vidwaan suvaokkya: Krupana: sukhee cha 

Dheemaanasathra: _ pithruthoadhikascha; 

Neechasthapaswee sadhana: salaabha: 

Khalascha jeevae kramasea vilagnaath. 


First house learned 

Second house : of good word 

Third house: Unsympathetic and wicked 

fourth house : Happy 

Fifth house: intelligent 

Sixth house: Having no enemy 

Seventh house : Noble than the predecessors 

Eighth house: of ignoble deeds 

Ninth house Sagely 

Tenth ; Rich 

Eleventh house : In all dealings more than expected profit 
Twelfth house : Due to bad character not in good terms 


with anyone 

Better done on Thursdays and Wednesdays and in the 
Kaalahoara of Mercury or Jupiter. 

Before we conclude this unit it would only be proper to men- 
tion about the transitory influence (goachara-phala) of Jupiter, Tran- 
sits would be discussed later in detail. As the planets are in con- 
stant motion. there would be corresponding effects in lives of all 


222 A Course in Indian Astrology 
natives apart from general effects of their positions in" the birth 
chart. The transitory influence are most important in the case of 
Jupiter and Saturn which are the two slower planets. (neglecting 
the shadowy planets Rahu and Kethu). 

Jupiter takes about one year to move through one sign while 
Saturn takes about 2 %& Years. Hence the transitory influence of 
these two planets would be very important in predictions. A part 
from the effects of birth positions of planete-ewad the Dasa effects, 
one has to incorporate the transitory effects of planets also espe- 
cially those ofJupiter and Saturn. 

Position of transiting planets are reckoned from the position 
of the Moon inthe birth chart. When Jupiter transits which of the 
12 signs from the nativity moon-sign, different effects are experi- 
enced. These general influences are listed below. 

1.When Jupiter transits the Moon sign in the nativity, there 
is possibility oftransfer, expense becoming greater than income and 
adversity to status. 

2.Transit through the second sign of the radical Moon, signi- 
fies increased gains and happiness in home. 

3.Unfavourable, accidents 

4.Loss of relatives Loss of possessions. 

5.Gains, happiness, rise in status. 

6-Loss change of occupation, ill health 
7.Loss of health, success in efforts. 
8.Diseases to wife and children wandering, imprisonment 
9Gain ofnew friends, compassionate deeds. 

10.Delay, loss ofwealth, insult 

11.Promotion, increased gains, rise of status 

12,Increased expenses, wife's travel. 

These axe only very general effects, and we have to discuss 
more about the goachara effects, which we will take up separately 
in a later unit. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 223 


The Sign Dhanus (Sagittarius) 


UNIT 49 


Dhanus is the ninth sign of the Zodiac extending from 240* 
to 270° from Mesha. The lord of the sign is Jupiter, who owns the 
sign Meena as well 

Dhanus comprises of the asterisms Moola, Poorvaashaaddha 
and the first quarter of Uttraashaadha. 

Paraasara describes the sign Dhanus as; 

Prushtoadayee-thu-aatthudhanur-guruswamee-cha- 

sathwika: 

Pingaloa nisi veeryaddhyoa paavaka: kshathriyoa, dwipaad 

Aadaavanthaey chathuspaada: — samagaathroa 

dhanurdhara: 

Poorvasthoa  vasudhaachaaree bahuthaeja: samanvitha: 

(Dhanu Rasiis owned by Jupiter; it is a prushtoadaya sign, of 
sathwik quality, of honey colour, strong at night, fiery and 
Kshathriya; the first halfis biped and the latter half quadrupled. It 
is of medium body and holds a bow and arrow. It dwells in the east, 
moves on the earth and radiates brilliance). 

i The sign is symbolised by a being whose upper halfis a hu- 
man being holding a bow and’arrow aimed at some target, and whose 
lower part of the body is that of a horse with four legs. 

No planets has its exaltation or debilitation in Dhanus. 

It is a friendly sign for Sun and Mars and a neutral sign for 
other planets. 

Being a fiery sign, Dhanus natives would be very bold and 
always aim at higher targets. They are often greedy too. Even in 
unfavourable circumstance they would be very much steady and 
would continue their efforts. When oppositions increase natives of 
fiery signs (Mesha, Simha, Dhanus) become more strong and would 
move forward, Dhanus natives would take decisions on any matter 


224 A Course in Indian Astrology 
only after careful considerations of both sides of the problem. Me- 
sha natives, are also lke this, but are hasty and do not show the 
maturity of actions as Dhanus natives. Being truthful, Dhanus-na- 
tives would be quite open and frank. Even when adverse to self- 
interest, they would stick on to the straight path only. Their action 
would be very straight and woidd not be influenced by whether it 
would be liked or disliked by others. During interviews many of the 
Dhanus-natives would be challenging the interviewers, 

Dhanus-borns would have interest in higher education. They 
would also have desire fore foreign travel and to communicate with 
those in foreign countries. 

Jupiter being the lord of the sign, Dhanus natives would be of 
liberal and charitable attitude, optimistic, truthful and with a reli- 
gious or spiritual bent of mind. Grasping matters quickly, keeping 
them in memory for quite a long time, taking correct decisions by 
using guesswork in the right direction, fighting against in justice 
etc. are all characteristic of Dhanus boras. 

Venus, being the sixth lord for natives of Dhanus, they like 
cattle and pets. They do not hke to be under anyone and they usu- 
ally do not desire to stick to one place of residence. Frequent change 
of residence and change,ofopinion are common among them; this is 
not surprising as Moon (significator of the mind) is the lord of the 
eighth house. 

A number of Dhanus natives are found to be teachers, bank 
employees, dealers in finance, preachers or orators (lordship by 
Jupiter), If Jupiter is strong they shine in politics. They are fre- 
quently connected with publications and editorship, Dhanus na- 
tives hke to spend more time with wife and children, They may 
establish close friendship even with those with whom they would 
have had some difference of opinion previously. 

Ifa Dhanus native marries a Dhanus born girl their married 
life would be usually pleasant; they would have mutual understand- 
ing. The wife would also be able to pardor her husband for his faults 
and she would be capable of pointing out such mistakes at proper 
time and place. When the lords of 2, 7, and 11 (Saturn, Mercury 
and Venus) are favourable the wife would be favourable for Dhanus 
natives. 

Similarly Saturn, Mars and Venus (lords of 2, 5, 11) are favour- 
able to Dhanus natives, It is advisable to note that due to the lord- 
ship of the fifth house by Mars the children might be of stiff nature; 
Carefully avoiding excessive control over them might avoid possi- 
ble separation from or differences of opinion with the children. 


A Course in In dian Astrology 225 

Parts of the body and diseases associated Hips, thighs, 
calves, stroke, dislocation in the hip, asthma, lungs-diseases, TB, 
bone fracture, cough, pneumonia, diabetes, hearing troubles, defec- 
tive eyesight. 

Places: Palace, Government houses, government office, race 
ground armoury, gambling place, stables, vehicles, aeroplane, places 
near ovens, cattleshed, churches, temples, educational institutions, 
courts, bushes, forest. 

Dhanus sign is also associated with physician, medicine, 
flower, roots, fruits, aquatic products. 

Countries: Arabia, Australia, France, Hungary, Spain, Italy. 

Days: Thursdays and Fridays are the most auspicious days. 
Monday would be the day of anxiety and Tuesday might involve 
wasteful expenditure. Sundays would give progress and Saturdays 
would signify slowness and delay as well as help from others. for 
legal matters Fridays and Saturdays are good and Wednesdays are 
good for signing agreements. It is better to select the Kaalahoara of 
Jupiter on the favourable days. 

Colours: Favourable colours ate white, cream, green, orange 
fight blue. Red colour is not good. Using red colour would enhance 
cruelty. 

Numbers: 3, 5, 6 And 8 are favourable numbers while 2, 7, 
and 9 are to be avoided. 

Dhanus natives should take special care not to be influenced 
by lottery and not to give promises beyond one's capacity. They may 
find it difficult to keep their words. They may also avoid slighting 
the actions of others, though the actions may deserve it. 

Before we conclude it must be noted that Dhanus is not an 
inimical sign to any planets since no planet has Jupiter as enemy. 


226 A Course inIndian Astrology 


The Sign Meena (Pisces) 


UNIT 50- 


Meena is the last (twelfth) sign of the zodiac and extends from 
330 to 360 of are starting from Mesha. Meena (like Dhanus) has 
Jupiter as its lord and it includes the aster isms Poorvabhadra pada 
fourth quarter, Utharabhadrapada and Revathi. 

Meena is a watery sign: It is even (feminine) as well as a 
common one (Ubhaya Rasi). The symbol for Meena is a pair of fish 
each ‘Kissing’ the tail of the other, Paraasara describes the sign as 
folio ws: - 

Meenow Pucchaasya samlagnow 

Meenaraasir divaabatlee 

Jalee sathwa-gunaaddhyascha 

Swasthoa jalacharoa dwija 

Apadoa madhya-daeheecha 

Sowmyasthoa hyubhayoadayee 

Suraachaaryaadhipaschaettham 

Raaseenaamudithaa gunaah: 

(Meena sign is a pair of fishthe face of each touching the tail 
of the other: it is a watery signand a day sign. ItisofSathwa- guna 
nature, peaceful, moving in water, Brahmin by caste, without legs, 
of medium body, with abode in the north diréction, rising with both 
parts and is governed by Jupiter). 

Of all the signs Meena is unique in its rising mode. All other 
signs are either Prushtoadaya-signs (rising with the hinder part) 
or Seershoadaya-signs rising with the head); but Meena alone is 
rising with both parts (Ubhayodaya). 

Meena is the twelfth sign and represents the feet of the Kaala- 
purusha. Meena is a sign of philosophic thoughts and traditions. 

For sun and Mars, Meena is a friendly sign, for other planets 


A Course in Indian Astrology 227 
itis a neutral sign. Jupiteris not inimical to any other planet. (Note 
that though Jupiter is notinimical to any planet, Mercury and Venus 
are inimical to Jupiter). 

For Venus, Meena is the sign of exaltation while for Mercury 
Meena is the sign of debilitation. 

Meena natives would be having spiritual thoughts and would 
be capable of concentration or meditation. They are imaginative 
and also sympathetic and compassionate to others. They are usu- 
ally helpful to others and are very much truthful, As water can cool 
down heat. Meena-natives can practise, ahimsa or at least consider 
Ahimsa as most valuable. They have a tendency to learn occult sci- 
ences. Being a common’ sign it is not easy to Know what is in the 
mind of a Meena native. 


Being the sign of exaltation of Venus, many Meena-borns are 
found to be artists, poets, musicians painters and beauticians, Usu- 
ally they spend what they earn. They are affectionate to neighbours. 
Due to complete faith in friends and others many Meena natives 
get cheated. 

Meena-borns are destined to attain fame and progress due to 
their own efforts. As Meena is the sign of Jupiter, natives of the 
sign would have special taste for literary creations. Many well known 
men ofletters are natives of Meena. They are also characterised by 
truthful and straightforward behaviour, compassion, love of jus- 
tice, constant effort, firm determination and imaginativeness. 
Though they have desire to enjoy the fortunes of life, they would 
never do so by causing pain to others. They would execute their 
decisions with firmness. Many of them undertake more than one 
occupation simultaneously and would be successful in atleast two 
of them. It is their nature to approach anything with an open mind. 
They usually earn by writing books. Many of them have to suffer 
premature sorrows on account of father and co-borns. It is not sur- 
prising if the mother gets remarried. Meena borns generally are 
blessed with good children and their children are usually fortunate 
and may have to undertake foreign travel; they may have to change 
residence frequently. 


Fickleness, desire for sexual pleasure and imaginativeness 
are usually exhibited by Meena natives. They have a special ability 
to win their enemies to their side. Meena being a feminine sign new 
concepts take shape in their minds. 

Meena is the sign of salvation (12th sign) and the third of the 
Moksha-thrikonas (kataka, Vrischika, Meena} As such they would 
have interest to learn and understand the depths of spiritual sci- 


228 A Course in Indian Astrology 
ence. They would also be interested in foreign travels. As, the lord 
of the second house is Mars they have a tendency to be a bit ex- 
travagant. Venus being the lord of the third house may confer good 
neighbours. 

Meena is.the feet of the Kaalapurusha and ifthe sign is re- 
lated to the disease-inflicting planets or the sixth house it would 
indicate diseases on the feet like swelling, varicose vein etc. When 
the Sun and Meena are associated with disease intestinal diseases 
and typhoid are possible. Similar association of the moon may con- 
fer addiction to liquor, Mars association indicates possibilities of 
fracture of the bones on the legs, bleeding piles, hernia and anal 
pain or swelling. Wounds due to burn are also possible. Evil asso- 
ciation with Mercury leads to nervous weakness, deafness or TB 
Jupiter in similar position indicates swelling on legs, expansion of 
liver, stomach-troubles, bile disorder etc. Association of unfavour- 
able Saturn produces rheumatic diseases, beri-beri, stiffness of legs 
and the like. In the case of females such combinations as above may 
cause diseases of the uterus aud menstrual complaints. In special 
cases the husband might have to involve in a second marriage, on 
account ofthe wife's disease or of the wife's death. 


Meena natives usually associate themselves with occupation 
requiring broad outlook and cleverness of action. They would have 
to associate with such occupations which are related to everyday 
life of people-like food, education, social work, financial transac- 
tions etc. Depending on the position of Moon (lord of the fifth house), 
they would be associated with various subdivisions ofarts. ]fVenus 
is in exaltation, the natives would shine as poet, musician or actor. 
Meena native would be quite systematic and earnest in all their 
actions but in spite oftheir earnestness in the work, they would be 
unable to concentrate their attention on only a single matter. 


They would prosper in the health department and also in the 
administrative department evidently because the lord of the sign, 
Jupiter is also the lord of the tenth house. Their occupation and 
means or livelihood would be associated with water like navy, ships, 
port, customs, fisheries, beverages, oils, liquors, medicines, dress, 
ornaments, spices and cosmetics, temples, churches, monasteries, 
hospitals, finance, medical department etc. (The exact orcupation/ 
profession would have to be judged by taking into consideration all 
the planets associated with the tenth house and their significations, 
as described in an earlier unit). 

Even in old age Meena natives do not want to be dependent 
on others: and hence they procure and save for their old age, like 


A Course in Indian Astrology 229 
bees collecting honey. They have also the good nature to use their 
earnings for. those who request for help, However, Saturn being the 
lord of the eleventh and twelfth houses, at best a few such persons 
who receive help from Meena natives woidd abandon them after 
having made use of their help. Therefore it is not advisable to have 
financial dealings and exchange of secrets with those with a "strong" 
Saturn (those born on Saturdays, in Makara or Kumbha lagnas 
and in the asterisms of Saturn-pushya, Anuraadha, 
Uttrabhadrpada). 

Meena-borns have a tendency to talk about their difficulties 
and to win the sympathy of others. Also they would frequently con- 
sult astrologers, 

They make arrangements for the higher education of their 
children and further usually encourage their wives also for higher 
education. They like a happy and full life. The fifth house is kataka 
owned by Moon and hence Meena natives have a high degree of 
beauty consciousness and they would admire human beauty when- 
ever they come across any living or non living beauty piece: They 
are attracted by statues, paintings, pictures, and even the display- 
dolls in glass cases in front of textile shops. 

They would have many friends, but they receive much less 
help from friends than what they offer to their friends. They also 
have a tendency to feel about the difficulties of their friends. 

Meena natives are affectionate to the wife but there would be 
a tinge of jealousy in their love. Wives of Meena natives should not 
take this doubting nature of their husbands very seriously and 
they would be wise if they keep in mind that weakness of their 
husbands and carefully control close dealings with other men. Meena 
natives love their children and the children reciprocate the same 
and respect them. Usually their children also would have artistic 
tendencies and take profession related to minerals, metals, indus- 
tries, oils ete. 

For Meena natives Saturn, Venus and sumare malefics, while 
Mars and moon are benefic. Jupiter of course is benefic as the Ascend- 
ent. If Saturn is posited in Meena and is aspected by Mars and 
Moon there is possibility of marrying a widow. Similarly Mars and 
Venus aspecting each other or being posited in unfavourable posi- 
tions, Meena natives should be careful not to be in the grip of 
unchaste women. Mars and Saturn in Makara is good. Mars being 
the lord of fortune (9th lord), conjunction of Mars and Jupiter pro- 
duces special Yoga (Dharma -Karmaa-dhipa Yoga). Combination of 
the lords of the houses of trine can cause Raajayoaga hke Mars (the 


230 A Course in Indian Astrology 
9th lord) by conjunction with a quadrant lord Mercury or Jupiter. 
However Mercury has Baadhakaa and Maarakaa characteristics 
as the lord of the 7th and is no favourable for the Meena sign. These 
relations may be consolidated as: 


Manda-Sukra-msumath-sowmyapaapaa: Bhowma- 
vidhoo sudhow 
Maheesutha-guroo yoaga-Kaarinow-nativa-bhoosutha: 


Maarakaabhiknyaa mandaadyaa: ghnanthi paapina: 

Ithyoohyaani budhairaethath phalaani jhashajanmana: 

Good days:- The kaalahoara of Jupiter and the Meena-sign 
on Thursday, Tuesday and Sunday are favourable. On Monday and 
Saturday there is the possibility of loss on account of transactions. 

Wednesday and Friday are not good for auspicious matters 
and financial transactions (where money is obtained by the Meena 
native), as far as possible choose Thursday and the kaalahora of 
Jupiter. For travel and professional matters choose Thursday. For 
borrowing and competitions choose Sunday. On Saturdays never 
involve in transactions or arguments. 

Colours:- Red, Yellow, Orange and Rose are favourable col- 
ours while blue, white, cream and green are unfavourable. But the 
life-partner of the Meena native would hke those unfavourable col- 
ours. 

Numbers:- 1, 4, 8 and 9 are auspicious. 

Places:- Ponds, lakes, sea, fish breeding places, marshy 
places, flooded areas, oil mines, tanks, temples, ports, sanatoriums, 
isolation wards, water-storage-tanks, centre for the aged, wells, 
breweries. 

Countries: Portugal, Normandy, Egypt, Ceylon, Lancaster, 
Alexandria, Chicago. 

Some warnings to Meena-horns:- Meena natives have 
beauty-consciousness, often a bit too much and evidently it might 
lead to misunderstandings .Tendency to help others and excessive 
belief in others might lead to danger of being cheated. Avoid dis- 
closing secrets to 'Saturn-strong' natives, entrusting them with 
signed blank papers, andbank accounts, and to give power of attor- 
ney to them. Control drinking liquor which is a possible habit. 


A Course in Indian Astrology : 231 


Venus (Sukra) 


UNIT 61 


Next to Jupiter the guru of the Devas, we have the planet 
Venus also called Sukra, named after the well known Aachaaryaof 
the Asuras. Venus is only next to Jupiter in natural benefic. Venus 
is the Significator of material pleasures, sexual happiness, luxury, 
arts and learning. Venus represents the virility in man and is asso- 
ciated with the eyes. Venusis a feminine planet and controls such 
aspects as beauty, smoothness, softness, handsomeness, ornaments, 
decoration, cupidity, curly hair, sweetness etc. In the designation 
scheme for planets Sun represents the. king, Moon the queen, Mars 
the army chieftain, Mercury the prince, Jupiter the minister while 
Venus is given the status of minister, but not so serious and deep as 
Jupiter. While Jupiter confers wisdom and learning with inclina- 
tion to spirituality of other world, Venus confers learning and knowl- 
edge with inclination to enjoyment of arts and other finer sides in 
this world. A favourable Venus promises to the native, worldly pleas- 
ures, pleasures of bed, happy married life, expertise in music, litera- 
ture and such arts, bodily beauty, vehicles and other modern luxu- 
ries of life. It is said that one born in the sign of Venus would be 
handsome in appearance. 


MN told Tala el Ba Sukrakshaethrae subhaakruthi:”. 

Venus also signifies cattle and pets. 

Venus is the lord of the signs Vrishabha, the second sign of 
the Zodiac and Thula, the seventh sign (wealth, vidya, speech, part: 
nership, luxury, learning etc.) These signs also indicate beauty. 
Vrishabha is the face of Kaalapurusha and indicates good physique, 
attractive and proportionate distribution, a balanced mental atti- 
tude (like the weighing balance, the symbol of the sign) and a just 
and joyful life. Venus also confers the special capacity to make eve- 
ryone of the family cooperate with each other. Venus hke Moon is a 


232 A Course in Indian Astrology 
watery planet and as such signifies a lot of adjustability. 

Venus has the lordship of Vrishabha and Thula, of which 
Thula is the Moolakshaethra. Meena is the exaltation sign and 
Kanya is the sign of debilitation. Meena is the twelfth sign of the 
zodiac, the twelfth house signifies not only separation, distress, fall 
etc. but also the pleasures of thebed. So Venus alone is considered 
as a auspicious in the twelfth house in any nativity and such a 
position causes prosperity to the native. Natives with favourable 
Venus enjoy favourable worldly pleasures, notably those of the bed. 
If associated with Mars the native would win sexual pleasures ei- 
ther by straight forward or by crooked means. In one of the signs of 
Venus (Vrishabha), Moon is in exaltation that Venus confers worldly 
pleasures and sensual happiness and not spiritual happiness. Venus 
is also associated with the ‘Vasantha’ season which represents the 
mating season. 


Significations of Venus:- 


Dark green Southeast Flower 

Worldly pleasure Partner in life ornament 

Marriage poetry Eyes 

vehicle Bed Rajo-guna 
Association with Beauty Indrani (the-better half of Indra 
Kapha and Vaatha water Ayurveda 

nature curly dark hair virility 
Instrumental Music Various sciences Bedroom 

Pearls Sexual desire Love of sweetness 
Good luck Music Desire for other women 
curd Clean dress Self interest 
Excessive spending Preacher Secret actions 
Intoxicants Dress rain 

Sinful act Determination Speculation 
Peacock Devotion to God Cosmetics 
Independent profession middle age Fine arts 

Plays and sports Shares ladies quarters 
Chemistry enjoyment Devotion to Goddess 
Beauty parlour Ancient culture Wonder 

Music concert prostitution cotton 

cleverness flattery Ganapathy 

Family ghee gift 

Attraction Festival Youth 

honey White colour Magic 


Dance orchestra Silver 


A Course in Indian Astrology 233 


sandal wood trading compromise talk 
Palace gold cow 

Mother's milk Sweet talk concealed things 
genital organs fan Sparrow 
Weaving Relation Vellala caste 
Veena buffalo coin 

cattle shed vasantha season flute 

Donation Skin trouble (spring) 
celebrations necklace goitre 

Bangles doll holiday 
Gonorrhoea Decoration fun 

kidney bleeding Friday 

hair Marriage proposal cosmetic factory 
barber Entertaining guests Maangalya 
Ready made dress shop honeymoon profit 

Yakshi red light street partner 

wig Decorative fans Railway station 
rmg shepherd sugar cane 
rayon liquor Annapoorneswari 
swelling plastic: vaisya 
washerman Bloodlessness photograph 
coconut disease of theatre 

ladies undergarment eye ship 

disease ovary glands Textile mill 
Disease due to Anaemia jewellery Musical instruments 
phlegm and wind aids Marriage bureau 
jasmine Leucoderma Dining hall 
shipyard tobacco syphilis 

saloon Textiles Film producers 
epilepsy sweet stall glass 

Bus Entertainment Aerodromes 
fancy good Navy men flower shop 

Silk sweetmeats Estate-owner 
studio copper car 

Tailors clubs Toilet soap 
sewing machines Dealers of ornaments silver 
essential oils milk Mica 

sugar fruit juice films 

embroidery Actors fruits 

Paint Railway aeroplane 

civet Airmen Radio 


Players agriculture Musk 


234 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Trumpet Glassworkers Musician 
people Dressmaker Manufactures of Lorry 
Ivory-colour Butchery Taxi 
tea Food Painter 
coffee cream Beauty parlour 
white 

The number 6 and all those obtained by adding muutiples of 9 
to it are auspicious (6, 15, 24, 33,......... adding the digits we should « 
get 6) 


Friday, the kaalahoara of Venus and the stars Bharani, Poor- 
vaphalguni and Poorvaashaadha are also auspicious. 


Venus and Other planets:- 


Venus would always be found to be within 48 from the Sun. 
Thus if you findin a horoscope that Venus is marked more than 48 
from the Sun you may declare that the horoscope is wrong. 

For Venus, Saturn and Mercury are friends while Sun and 
Moon are enemies Mars and Jupiter are neutral: 

“Sukrasya mithrae Budha-sooryaputhrouSamow Kuja- 

aryou  itharavaree-thow. 

Thus Mithuna, Kanya, Makara and Kumbha are friendly 
houses but Kanya is the debilitation sign for Venus. Mesha, Vris- 
chika, Dhanus and Meena are neutral signs and Meena is the sign 
of exaltation. Kataka and Simha are inimical signs. 

When Venus and sun are favourably posited in a nativity the 
native would be pleasure-liking, of a good nature and acceptable to 
people. When Sun and Venus are in conjunction in the fifth seventh 
or ninth house in horoscope, the wife of the native would be infirm: 
Mars also produces the same effect:- 

“Sukraedhee-dharma-asthagae Bhanuyukthe 

Bhoumaeddhaye-vaa daara-vaikalyamaahu:” 

(Jaathakadaesa) 

When Venus is aspected by an unfavourably placed Sun, de- 
lay or disappointment is indicated for marriage. The native woidd 
be of a rough behaviour. In his house there would not be much 
cordiality. These bad effects would be shown during the period of 
Sun and Venus, or when these planets are associated in transit. 


” 


When Moon anid Venus are favourably associated, the native 
gets gentleness, softness, good nature, and beauty-consciousness. 
The native woidd be attractively dressed and woidd use cosmetics. 
There would be taste in fine arts like music and literature. He would 
be affectionate and sympathetic to others. They would be liked by 


A Course in Indian Astrology 235 
women. When Venus and Moon are favourably posited with respect 
to the second house, the native would receive means of living and 
wealth through women-such as wife, mother ete ; when the Moon is 
also associated with the seventh house, the partner of life would he 
in all probability be born in one of the asterisms of Moon (Rohini, 
Hastha, Sravana). 

When Venus is favourably associated with Mars the native 
would be of a liberal and charitable nature, of very good behaviour 
and would be capable of influencing others to his side. He would be 
of progressive outlook and be interested in adventurous actions: 
Liberality would be prominent. Such natives will be able to show 
their practical expertise in their profession. They are likely to be 
occupied in connection with car, tailoring, music, dance, film pro- 
duction, jewellery, dressmaking, photography, textiles and glass: 


Wheu Venus is combined with an unfavourable Mars, unde- 
sirable life, quarrelling with others, chaotic and unhappy experi- 
ences, sorrows and scandals connected with women, cruelty to the 
partner of life, divorce, sadistic attitude, and the like are indicated. 
When Mars is also associated with the seventh house, the partner 
might be ofthe asterism of Mars (Mrigaseersha, Chithra, Sravishta). 

Natives with favourable association between Venus and Mer- 
cury will behave extremely nicely to others and will be affectionate 
to them. They would have interest in fine arts and would have deal- . 
ings with men of letters. They will be interested in a number of 
fields and are likely to earn ones brokerage, agency and as man- 
ager of wealthy women. 

When Saturn and Mars are a)so favourable the native would 
deal with freezers air-conditioners and such cqoling electrical 
equipments. When Mercury and Venus are not favourably related 
the native would always be moody. There is a possibility of the na- 
tive's love letters reaching others (Mercury signifies communication 
and messenger). 

When Jupiter is favourable itis possible that the native would 
have to remit huge amount to the government as tax. 

Natives with favourable Venus and Jupiter in Mutual asso- 
ciation, willbe decent, modest, dutiful and trustworthy. They never 
involve themselves in anything against the traditions of society. 
They would be working for universal fraternity and universal hap- 
piness and will be always guided by truth and virtues. They would 
be of very good health and are invariably successful in their efforts. 
If they are occupied in trade they will easily get loans and also good 
profit. They shine in judiciary, income-tax, bank, and educational 


236 A Course in Indian Astrology 
institutions for women. They may have financial gains through 
marriage. 

When Venus and Saturn are favourably associated the na- 
tive would act only after careful consideration of all the pros and 
cons. He will have good foresight and will be brilliant and enter- 
prising. He will be quite responsible in his actions. He will be mod- 
erate 11 spending and would not be a miser. The occupation would 
be related to plantations, estate, shares, coal mines, leather, cotton 
etc. 

Unfavourable Venus-Saturn association confers disappoint- 
ment in marriage, illegal relations affairs with widows and older 
persons, financial troubles, disagreements in home, divorce etc, 
When the sixth house is also connected with the combination vene- 
real diseases, leprosy, eczema, scabies, etc. There will be delay in 
getting paternal wealth, Dishonour, deceit, revenge, of friends, brib- 
ery, other accusations, punishment for drinking or prostitution, etc. 
are possible. Saturn-Venus relation, usually prove to be malefic at 
the end. 


To end this unit, we shall familiarise with the description of 
the nature of Venus from Paraasara and the significations of Venus 
as given in Phaladeepika. 

"Sukhee Kaantha-vapu : sraeshta : suchahshur 

bhrugunandanah. 

Ravyakarthaa = kaphaadhikyaanilaatmaa vakramoordhaja:”. 

(Paraasara-Hoara) 

(Venus is of pleasant nature; of attractive body; noble and of 
good eyes: Venus is composer of poetry, will have curly hair and is 
of excess phlegm and windy principle). 

The significations of Venus are summarised in phaladeepika 


thus: 
Sampad-  vaahana-vasthra- bhooshana-nidhi-dravyaani- 
thouryathrikan 
Bhaaryaa- soukhya- sugandha-pushpa-madana-vyaapaa 
sayyaalayaan 


Sreemathwam kavithaasukham bahuvadhoo-sangam 
vilaasam madam 
Saachivyam sarasoakthimaaha Bhrugujaadu 
duaahakarmoatsavam 


Course in Indian Astrology 237 


The Sign Vrushabha(Taurus) 


UNIT 52 


Vrushabha is the second sign of the zodiac and extends from 
30" to 60" ofarc. 

The last three quarters of Krithika, 4 Quarters of Rohini and 
the first half of Mruga seer sha are the asterisms governing this sign. 

With the handsome Venus as the lord, Vrushabha is a unique 
sign with Saturn being yogakaaraka as the lord of the important 
signs 9th and 10th from it. So for Vrushabha natives Saturn is Yoga- 
kaaraka, and is friendly to Venus. 

It is the second sign and hence represents the face of the Kaala- 
purusha and is the position if 'possessions'. It is an even that is 
feminine and ig a fixed sign. It is a Prushtoadaya sign with earth- 
principle, Mild nature, windy character, white colour, Vaisya Caste, 
strong at night and quadruped nature are all characteristic of 
Vrushabha. It is symbolised by a bull. Paraasara describes the sign 
as: 

Svetha: Sukraadhipaa: deerghaschathushpaa 

th sarvareebala: 
Yaamyaet graamyoa vanig bhoomee raja prushtoadayoa 
Vrusha: 

Vrushabha native would be strong and determined. He will 
be of nedium body handsome, with broad forehead, of prominent 
neck and he will have bright eyes, and black hair. The face will be 
of attractive shape. 

Vrishabha is mainly of earth principle (Pruthvi) and hence 
natives of the sign would be ‘stable’ and patient; but when they lose 
their temper they may explode violently as a volcano. They would 
be slow but steady and hence would succeed in reaching their goals. 
Once they take a decision they stick on to it at all costs. They take 
decisions only after intensive thinking. When the sign has malefic 


238 A Course in Indian Astrology 
aspects the native might turn lazy and may have loose character. 

Vrishabha natives would have a strong desire for money and 
landed properties. They would have rather strong hunger. They 
would be pleasure-seeking and they like good food and sweets, which 
they enjoy. 

They usually think straight and do not generally resort to 
crooked methods. Being the sign of Venus, outwardly they would 
be alike in sorrows as well as happiness, in angry moods as well as 
light moods. It is difficult to know what is in their minds. 

With Venus favourably disposed, Vrishabha natives will have 
landed properties, ornaments, luxury materials, good house, vehi- 
cles etc. They like to enjoy the beauty of nature and take interest in 
plantations. 

If there is favourable aspect of Saturn, Vrishabha natives 
would show a tendency for loneliness, meditation and philosophic 
thoughts. 

Venus being the significator of love affairs too, Vrishabha na- 
tives would show a high standard and honesty in love affairs. But 
when the sign is associated with Saturn, the native would show a 
high desire for sex. 

A strong body, ability to suffer pain and tendency to secretly 
suffer diseases are characteristic of Vrishabha natives 

4 Vrishabha being the second-sign of the zodiac represents the 
face of the Kaalapurusha andwhen it is associated with malefics 
the natives might suffer from diseases of the face, such as pimples. 

Vrishabha natives would have opportunities for gain of money. 
They would not be stingy and also not lavish. Mercury being the 
lord of the second and fifth houses, Vrishabha natives can earn dur- 
ing Mercury-period from speculative business, 

Saturn is highly favourable, for Vrishabha natives, if favour- 
ably posited in the horoscope, because Saturn rules over the strong 
trine (9th) audquadrant (10th). Thus Saturn is a Yogakaaraka (for- 
tune indicator) for Vrishabha natives, Conjunction of lords of ninth 
(Dharmabhava) and tenth (Karma-bhava) is known as the Dharma- 
Karmadhipa Yoga. In the case of Vrishabha natives both these lords 
are one and the same planet, Saturn. Hence if this beneficial planet 
is favourably posited Vrishabha natives woidd be having splendid 
fortune in higher education, profession, honour, fame etc. 

They. would involve themselves, usually in professions of 
substantia] gain. They will shine in several professions like man- 
agement of plantations of fruits, coffee etc., being a broker, dealer- 
ship in cosmetics, ornaments, jewellery, luxury items and the like. 


A Course in Indian Astrology : 239 
Professions connected with finance like cashier, treasurer, banker, 
stock broker and gambling-manager are also undertaken by many 
Vrishabha natives. Some of them become-good peasants and estate 
owners or planters. 1fVenus is favourable the native might become 
good actor, cinema star or musician. The occupations of the 
Vrishabha natives would be related to collection of money, decora- 
tions, cattle, ladies make-up materials, silk zari, mica, paint, plas- 
tic, etc. The occupation is decided by the sign itself, and its lord 
Venus, the planets associated with the sign and Venus, the lord of 
the tenth house (Saturn) and other factors. 


Normally Vrishabha natives have contented marriage life with 
mutual understanding, affection, trust and a give and take attitude 
among the couple. Vrishabha borns maintain their affection and 
love strongly till the end and consequently, divorces are rare among 
Vrishabha natives. Women born in Vrishabha would keep their 
homes very attractive and neat. They never feel bored by family 
life. Parents born in Vrishabha woidd control their children just to 
the proper extent and they gain the respect from their children. 


The best day for Vrishabha-borns is Friday while Wednesday 
would bring about financial experiences. Inspite ofa possible delay, 
Saturday will never be ,disappointing: Satnrn is yoga-Kaaraka for 
Vrishabha natives and hence Saturday would be a day of fortunate 
experiences Mars, as you would have guessed, being the lord of the 
house of expenditure (12th) Tuesdays may involve expenditure. 
There is possibility of travels on Mondays. 

Favourable colours are green, white, and rose; favourable 
numbers are 6, 5, and 8. Diamond and emerald are auspicious stones, 

Cattle-sheds, timber depots, grazing grounds, under ground 
rooms and cleared up bushy lands are associated with Vrishabha 
sign. 

The countries signified by the sign are Persia, Georgia, Cy- 
prus, Asia minor, Poland, Russia and Ireland. 

White flowers, those who chant Manthras and scriptures, 
grammarians, priests, astrologers, kings, rich people, Yogi, cow, bull, 
water-based items, mountains, clothes, gems, musicians, etc. are 
associated with Vrishabha. 

When Vrishabha sign is occupied or aspected by malefics, then 
all the beneficial experiences given above would be reversed. For 
instance when Mercury is posited in Vrishabha and is aspected by 
an unfavourably posited Mars the native might turn to be a crimi- 
nal. When Mercury in conjunction with Saturn is posited in 
Vrishabha and is aspected by a malefic Mars the native might turn 


240 A Course in Indian Astrology 
out to be involved in taking of currency notes. If Saturn is unfa- 
vourably posited and it aspects Vrishabha sign, the native would be 
lazy. 

Saturn is Yogakaaraka for Vrishabha natives, as the lord of 
the Dharma-Karakadhipathi (lord of 9th and 10th); when posited 
favourably becomes highly beneficial. In spite of being the 
Lagnaadhipathi Venus is a malefic according to Paraasara. It may 
be remembered that Venus is the lord of the sixth house for 
Vrishabha natives (lord of 3, 6, 11, are malefics). Jupiter also is a 
malefic for Vrishabha borns. Mercury is only a mild benefice. 
Paraasara describes the beneficial and malefic aspects of planets of 
planets thus. 

Jeeva sukraendeva: papaalubhow sani divakarow 

Raajayogakaroa mandoa Jnoalpsatphaladoa  matha: 

Jeevaadayoa = meheejascha__santhi = maarakaiakshanaa: 

Dwijoathama:phalaanayeavam vrusha lagna bhavaani vai 


The Sign Thula (Libra) 


UNIT 53 


Thula (Libra) is the seventh sign of the zodiac extending from 
180 to 210 and including the last three quarters of the asterisms 
Chitra 2nd half, Swathiand Visaakha 1st 3 quarters When the sun 
enters this sign day and night are of equal duration and gradually 
thereafter the nights exceed the days in duration for the next six 
months. Thula owned by Venus, is a masculine sign and is airy. 
Saturn has its exaltation point while Sun has its debilitation point 
in this sign. Thula is a friendly sign for Mercury and Saturn and 
j: .mical signfor Sun and Jupiter. It is neutral for Moon and Mars. 

The sign is symbolised by a man holding a balance on the 
bazaar. The Characteristics of the sign are sSwmunarised by Paraasara 
as 


A Course in IndianAstrology 241 

Sees shoe dayee-dyuteeryaadhyoa 

sthathaa krishnoa rajaogunee 

paschimoa bhoochroa ghathce 

soodro madhyathanur dwipaad 

Thus the sign is rising by the head (Seershodaya) strong at 
day dark in colour, with Rajo-guna, dwelling in the west and mov- 
ing on land, cruel in nature, soodra in caste, of medium body and 
biped. 

Thula native would have the qualities of Venus as well as of 
the sign blended together. The general nature of the Thula natives 
are summarised in the following verses 


Deva-braahmana-sajjanaarchanarathowidwaan vivaadee 
chala- 
chchitha: sthreejanakamakaelichathuraswakshoa 


maheekshitpriya: 
sanchaaryalpasuthoa dwinaamasahitho daksha: krayee 
vikaryee 
Bheerussaaenthamathkrusoacchrithathanu: 
Jjookaangajaathea  bhavaeth 

(The Thula native woidd honour devas. Brahmins and virtu- 
ous people; would be learned, be interested in legal affairs, be of 
fickle mind; be interested and active in sexual affairs: be of very 
nice eyes; be liked by authorities, be travelling much, be with few 
children; be with two names, be an expert in buying and selling, 
would not be very courageous, would be a lover of peace and be of 
tall but lean body). 

Like the Vrischika natives Thula natives word have an at- 
tractive personality and a smiling face. They would be very just. As 
indicatedby the balance symbolising the sign, the Thula native can 
weigh the consequences before taking a proper decision. They are 
specialists in impartial criticism. Mildness, honour, prestige, grace, 
handsomeness, happiness, pleasant attitude etc. are conferred on 
the Thula native by the sign-lord Venus. They maintain the bal- 
ance of mind under all circwnstances. Even when they lose their 
temper they would quickly fall back to normalcy. They would have 
taste in dresses. Luxuries, enjoyment of pleasures and arts. Pho- 
tography, gardening, drawing, painting, instrumental music. dance, 
draina, cinema etc. would be their interests and they may concen- 
trate ou one of these at any period. With good power of speculation, 
a rich intellect and brilliance, the Thula natives would shine as 
social workers, politicians and public men. Thula being the exalta- 
tion sign of Saturn, if Saturn is favourably placed, the native might 


242 “A Course in Indian Astrology 
become spiritually elevated and would rise as top public figure, 
Mahatma Gandhi and Ramana Maharshi are Thula natives. The 
special capacity to mediate and to make peaceful settlement of disa- 
greements and disputes makes them able to earn quick acceptance 
of the people and to attain leadership in a short time. 

They are essentially idealists and they serve the society na- 
tion or organisation rather than individuals. Even if they fail in 
public activity, they would continuously work till they regain suc- 
cess. 

It is noteworthy that the Thula native has Venus as the lord 
of Lagna and also as the lord of the unfavourable eighth house. 
Their own work may become harmful to them. Yet they would never 
sell their truthfulness, righteousness andjustice for selfish motives. 

There is always a tinge of artfulness and beauty in all their 
work. They like contact with woman very much and would try to 
please them. 

Thula natives might have interest in music, especially those 
associated with love. Jupiter's aspects make them take interest in 
music of a divine nature. Mars would confer interest in war songs 
and moon, if favourable confers ability in sweet music and light 
music which attract the audience deeply. 

It must be remembered that if the sign and the lord are weak 
or afflicted the general characteristics described above would have 
to be suitably modified if the prediction is to be true. 

Thula natives would generally have an attractive appearance 
and a handsome body, but there is possibility of contagious disease, 
diabetes, diseases associated with kidney, backbone, anus and sexual 
organ. In women there is possibility of diseases of the uterus, 

They havea natural skill and aptitude in running industries 
and trade. Transactions with partners chosen by Thula natives 
would become prosperous. Thus tenth-lord being Moon, they would 
shine in professions and occupations associated with paints; 
engineering, dairy, sweets, fruits and the like. They also shine as 
musicians, salesman, receptionists and liaison officers. They spend 
much for luxury and also for social purposes, sometimes to the point 
of being lavish. 

They are liked by others, generally. Sun being the lord of the 
eleventh house, they would have to associate themselves with gov- 
ernment and government employees. If sunis favourable, they would 
gét benefits from those born in the asterisms krithika, Uthra and 
Utharaashaada governed by the Sun, 

The married life of the Thula native would generally be happy, 


-\ Goursein Indian Astrology 243 
since he or she would have the quality ofattracting the partner and 
to maintain the affection. However there is a difficulty that their 
love und affection sometimes are suddenly born and might also be 
ending with the same suddenness. But when they love they love in 
all its fullness. 

Another important aspect for the Thula natives is that the 
lords of the houses 2, 7 and 11 (who control the marriage) are respec- 
tively Mars, and Sunandboth Mars and Sun are very powerful and 
masculine planets. Therefore the partner ofthe Thula native would 
be masculine in nature and so the Thula natives are advised to be 
careful in their dealings with their partners in life, and to tolerate 
their masculine aspect; They may not be misunderstood. 

Like the Vrishabha natives Thula natives also would gener- 
ally have very obedient and affectionate children who would help 
their parents in their old age. Ifthe fifth house has the lordship of 
planets friendly to Venus, or their aspects the children would rise 
to high positions. 

For the Thula native, Saturn is a Yogakaaraka, being the 
lord of the quadrant (fourth) and the trine (fifth) and also Saturn 
has Thula as the sign of exaltation. According to Parasara Jupiter 
(lord of 8rd and 6th houses) Sun (eleventh lord) and Mars (Maaraka 
as lord of the second and seventh houses) are malefics to Thula 
natives. Venus is neither benefic nor malefic to them while Mer- 
cury (as the lord ofthe ninth) is benefic. Association of Moon (lord 
of the 10th quadrant) and Mercury (lord of the 9th trine) will sig- 
nify Raajayoga. 

For Thula natives the lord of the third houses (signifying 
younger co-born) Jupiter being the lord of the sixth house also (sig- 
nify enemy) there is high possibility of disagreement with the 
younger co-born and younger brother might become inimical. 

Being little weak in women's affairs Thula natives should be 
careful to avoid dealings with women, especially when they deal 
with money and when they have to keep secrets. 


244 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Saturn (Sani) 


UNIT 64 


Saturn is known as Manda and Sani both indicating the slow 
movement of this important and exceptional planet. lt is the slow- 
est among the planets and takes about 30 Years for a full round 
along the zodiac, and such as it stays in a sign during its transit for 
about two Years and a half. Among the planets Saturn is dreaded 
commonly and the word "Sani" is used in conversation to mean trou- 
bles, difficulties and hardships. Saturn signifies servants while all 
the other planets signify much higher status Also Saturn signifies 
cowardice, thief, sorrows, labour and poverty. However Saturn also 
signifies concentration and life span (Aayus). Saturn has several 
exceptional characteristics. For instauce while all other planets when 
stroug in a nativity would enhance their significance e.g. strong 
Sun confers spiritual enhancement, strong Moon gives a good mind, 
strong Mars gives good courage, Saturn behaves in the opposite 
way i.e. when Saturn is strong it destroys its significations hke sor- 
rows, poverty. Varaahamihira describes the uniqueness of Saturn 
in his Laghujaathaka in the second sloka of the second chapter. 


Aatmaadyoa  gaganagair- 

Balibhir balavaththaraa: 

Durbalair  durbalaa: jnaeyaa: 

Vipareethamsanae : smrutham 

This is because all other planets represent desirable aspects 
of the personification of time-Kaalapurusha while Saturn signifies 
the sorrows. The first sloka of the second chapter of Laghujaathaka 
reveals this, 

Aatma Ravi: Seethakarasthuchaetha: 

Sathwamdhardaaja:sasitjoat huanee 2 

dnanam sukham chaendragurur-mmadascha 

Sukra: sani: Kaalanarasya  dukharn 


A Course in Indian Astrology 245 

No wonder, that ‘sani has become synonymous with hard- 
ship and sorrows, Saturn signifies the life span too, and is described 
as the Ayushkaraka the significator of life span. Thus it has become 
a custom among Hindus to pay special offerings to Saturn by burn- 
ing sesame seeds in small clothe bags dipped in Gingely oil and by 
fasting on Saturdays at least partially All are afraid of sorrows and 
death more than nothing else. Crores of people crowd the famous 
Saturn's temple at Thirunallar in Tamiinadu during the transits of 
Saturn from one sign to another once in 2 4 years. 

Another uniqueness of Saturn is that it is the only planet 
governing two consecutive signs Makara and Kumbha. 

Saturn is the son of the Sun according to mythology, but they 
are bitter enemies. This is evident from the fact that the signs of 
their exaltation and debilitation are opposite to those of each other, 
Mesha is exaltation for Sun while it is debilitation for Saturn, and 
Thula is exaltation for Saturn but debilitation for sun. So also Simha 
is the moolakshetra of the sun while the opposite sign-Kumbha is 
that of Saturn. Again Sun is a fiery planet while Saturn is an airy 
planet. 

Saturn is a thaamasic planet and represents laziness slow- 
ness and low qualities on the native such as thoughtfulness. 
commonsense, cautiousness, independence. public acceptance, 
learneduess, spiritual wisdom, leadership etc. It would confer 
Raajayoaga to some natives 

In the order of natural strength of planets Saturn comes last, 
and Saturnis thus said to possess the least Naisargika-bala andthe 
Sun the highest. Here also one can see the opposite natures of Saturn 
and Sun. 

Another unique feature of Saturn which is shared to a good 
extent by Jupiter also is the importance of Saturn in determining 
the destruction of various bhavaas caused during the transits. Thus 
the period during which Saturn transits the twelfth, first and sec 
ond houses with respect to the moon-sign in the nativity a total of 
3x2 A =7% Years is well known "sadae sathee” in the north and 
"Kazhara sani" im the south meaning "seven and a half Saturn" 
This period is particularly full of malefic and sorrowful as well as 
unhappy experiences for most peoples though it may be only mildly 
experienced by some natives for whom Saturn is a benefic. Simi- 
larly the periods during which Saturn transits the quadrant from 
the Moon-sign, known as the Kantaka Sani period and also the 
Ashtama-sani period (transit throngh the eighth from the native 
moon) are well known periods of miserable experiences 


246 A Course in Indian Astrology 

From what has been described above it is evident that Saturn 
is a very important planet from which one has to judge the life- 
span, demise and the general nature ofthe experiences during the 
dasnas as well. One may be able at a glance to judge that a particu- 
lar period may be highly beneficial to a native when the dasa and 
sub periods are looked into however such good experiences should 
be permitted by the transiting planets especially the slowest two, 
Saturn and then Jupiter. ]fthey are unfavourable the dasa effects 
may be masked. This is especially so in the case of Saturn which 
stays in the malefic position for quite a long time causing obstacle 
to getting the good experiences. 


Saturn rules over the signs Makara and Kumbha with the 
latter as the Moolakshaethra. In Mesha it is debilitated and in Thula 
it is in exaltation. 

Saturn has Jupiter 4s natural (or equal) and Venus and Mer- 
cury as friendly. Sun Moon and Mars are its enemies. Thus Mesha, 
Vrischika Simha and Kataka signs are inimical to Saturn while the 
other signs are favourable especially Thula Makara and Kumbha. 

For Vrishabha and Thula natives, Saturn is Yogakaraka since 
for these natives Saturn has lordships of a quadrant. and of trine. 
This is particularly so for Vrishabha natives for whom Saturn is the 
lord of the 9th and 10th houses. 

Saturn being the slowest planet, is notorious in causing delay 
for the matters signified by the houses aspected by it or occupied by 
it unfavourably. lt would also cause sorrows defeat obstacles and 
even a defeatist attitude. Due to the malefic influence of Saturn 
even simple things would turn out to be hard to realize. In spite of 
sufficient precaution the native would be misunderstood and dis- 
liked by others. All new enterprises would meat with failure or un- 
expected obstacles. Usually the obstacles and troubles would be 
caused by old people (Saturn has the signification of ageing) or 
, those born in the asterisms (pushya, Anuraadha, uthrabhadrapada) 
or siguis (Makara or Kumbha) of Saturn. 


Saturn is the significator of long life and when Saturn is in 
the eighth house (Ayurbhavajt gives long life. The dictum states 
thus 

"Sadashtamasthassanirishtada: 
syaad". 

Being the significator of ageing, it is usual that people be- 
come grey-haired during Saturn’s period and a sort of old age atti- 
tude sets in. 

Saturn also signifies cold food, old food, decay, loneliness, star- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 247 
vation etc. 

Saturn-dominated people frequently do not havea clean shave. 
They would like fasting as well as loneliness, careful calculations, 
cautious attention to advice and action according to one's will would 
mark such people 

Saturn has the signification of secrecy and concealment. It 
has smokiness and stealthiness as well as hiding. Thus Saturn has 
association with secret places, caves, mines, coalmines, geology, and 
the crime branch. A favourable Saturn would make one a good as- 
trologer or palmist or a good mathematician. 

Those with saturnine influence would have an anaemic and 
dark body with bones and conspicuous veins. They woidd appear.to 
have more than their actual age. There is also possibility of prema- 
ture greying, Eyes would be deep and with thick brows: There would 
also be a stare in their look. Their physical nature is the same as 
those described in Ayurveda, as those of windy nature. Generally 
there would only be a weak hearing power. 


Eyes, bone, nerves, and other parts of body which control move- 
ments are all associated with Saturn, Dental diseases are caused by 
certain positions of Saturn in the nativity For instance in the sec- 
ond chapter of Jaathakaabharana sloka 321 describes combinations 
for loss of hearing and teeth. 

Mandarkachandraasthrisu thaayadharmae 

soumyaena yurkAta: nacha veekshithaaschaeth 

Karnapranaasamjanayanthi moonam 

smarasthithaasthae dasanabhighatham a8 

Valley, hill, forest, desert, cave, dilapidated houses old build- 
ings, old places afworenins holes, trench, well, places with bad smell, 
slum. etc. dirty spots, barber's place, brother, factory, bone factory 

‘mortuary etc. are associated with Saturn, 

Occupations associated with lead, iron, hair, wool, leather, 
metal ore sands, minerals, petroleum, coal, cement etc. are signi- 
fied by Saturn. 

When Saturn and Sun determine the occupations the native 
would associate with governmentor quasi government departments. 
Saturn with Moon signifies agriculture, archaeology and excava- 
tion as well as mineral oil. Mars and Saturn signify engineer, ma- 
son, contractor etc. Mercury and Saturn indicate engineering, writ- 
ing, mythology, novel writing, and those using some tool or other. 
Occupations associated with censoring, stenography, vigilance work, 
wood cutting, scientist, scandal spreading etc. Jupiter and Saturn 
indicate physician, mine-owner, real estate brokers, workers ofreh- 


248 A Course in Indian Astrology 
gious institutions, bank employees laboratory workers, preachers, 
etc. Venus and Saturn indicate employment in mica mines, stitch- 
ing, instrumental artists, extra actors, skin-specialistsin secret dis- 
eases, leprosy specialists etc. 

If Saturn is favourable blue colour is beneficial if not red and 
yellow are good. Number eight and all others which are obtained by 
adding nines are favourable. Saturday and Friday are good in that 
order. Blue sapphire is the favourable gem. 

Windy and phlegm diseases, pain on legs, fatigue, loss of spirit, 
stomach disorders, wounds, bone pains, wounds by stones and wood 
etc. are caused by Saturn. It may be noted that Saturn is the sig- 
nificator of foreign languages, intoxicants and sins. Saturn is de- 
scribed by Varaahamihira as. 

1) Mandoalasa: 

Kapiladrik Krusadeerghagaathra: 
sthooladwija: parusharoamakachoanilaatma 

(Thin tall body, large teeth, rough hair, brownish eyes lazi- 
ness and windy nature are possessed by Saturn) 


(Brishatjaathaka) 
2) Krusadeergha pingaaksha: 
Krushna: pisunolasoanilaprakrutht: 
sthoolanakhadantha rcama 
Sanaischaroa snaayusarascha) 
(Laghujaathaka) 


(Thin tall physique, brownish eyes, black colour, laziness 
windy nature, tendency to trouble others, large nails 
and teeth, rough hair and snaayu) 
Saturn is described in Jaathakabharana as 
syaamaloathimalinascha  siraala: 
saa lasascha Jatiia: Krusadeergha: 
stholadanthanakha.pingala naethroa 
Yuk  sanischa khalathaanilakodpee: 
Paraasara describes Saturn as: "krusa-deergha thanu: souri: 
pingadrishtyanilaatma 
sthooladanthoaalsa: pangu 
khararoamakachoaduija. 
The significations of Saturn are several are several and are 
summarised in Phaladeepika as follows 
Ayushyam, maranam  bhayam pathithathaaam 


'e Daaridryam bhruthakaapavaada kalushaanyaasoucha 
nindaapada: 


dukhavamaanamayaar 


A Course wi Indian Astrology 249 

sthairyam neechajanaasryam cha mahisham thandraam 
Runam  chaayasam 
Daasathuam krushisaadhanam ravisuthaat 
Kaaraagraham bandhanam 

Significations of Satrun 

Life span (Aayus) Wickedness Greed 

desire killing disease 

government scooping punishment 

imprisonment charging loss of employment 

married life serving the wicked employee 

illfeeling agriculture servants 

dependence cheating lack of education 

learning law eunuch sin 

hell distress sorrow 

English education gambling liquor 

death heart disease rheumatism 

defeat mental hardship physical hardship 

fall dishonour day labour 

stability laziness debt 

iron Buffalo wool 

donkey footwear dark food 

cooked blackgram cooked sesame __ gingely oil 

blue flower musk elephant 

weapon obstacle wound 

stomach pain other pains agricultural tools 

cause of death deceit cruelty 

poverty garbage remaining from eatables 

mines soodras silk cloth 

thaamasaguna dirty nature starvation 

secret diseases low life west 

sky air . thinness 

bad odour intelligence sense organs of touch | 

thorny trees blue colour sisiva season 

coldness weak downtrodden 

blue gram decay Brahma 

roughcloth opium astringent taste 

duck old age downward look 

lame hard hair joints 

father loss of virility scandal 


250 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Saturn in various houses: 


1st house:- Ifit is the house of exaltation or own house na- 
tive becomes the head of village, town etc. In other houses the na- 
tive is made unstable, poor and sick. 
2nd House:- staying in other's house, hardship, sorrow, 
abandonment by people, later fortunes in places away from the na- 
tive place. 
3rd house:- Recognition by authorities, vehicles, leader of 
village, valorous leader of people, 
4th house:- suffering from windy and bile diseases weak- 
ness bad habits laziness. anger, unclean. 
5th house:- Always weak due to diseases lack of wealth and 
vitality danger due to children or anger to children. 
6th house:- Victory over enemies, virtuous, obedient to other, 
good people, thin but strong body. 
7th house:- Body weakened by diseases, companionship of 
wicked-people, wife's house suffering from poverty sorrows. 
8th house:- Tiny body, diseases, lack of happiness, laziness 
lack of support. 
9th house:- Charitable, deformation oflimbs, wicked, hand- 
some. 
10th house:- learned, leader, just and humble, intelligent, 
head of village, authority, wealth, full of activities, 
11th house:1 Gain of cattle, gems, ivory and the like, strength. 
12th house:- unsympathetic, poor, sorrow due to expenses, 
laziness, follower of wicked, deformity or loss of limbs, devoid of 
happiness. 
¢ Phe above indications have been given in Jaathakaabharana, 
but they have to be used with caution, after deciding the benefic 
and malefic nature of Saturn and the position of Saturn with nativity. 
Saturn in general when malefic would cause delay obstacles and 
destruction to that house under question. But if he is strong and 
beneficial would enhance the good aspects only. 


Saturn in various signs:- 


1.Mesha : Native will be of poor wisdom, moving from place 
to place, would involve in fraud and lies and without support from 
relatives. 

2. Vrischika : Suffering due to punishment or imprisonment, 
unsympathetic, shameless. 

3. Mithuna or Kanya : Without shame, happiness wealth 


A Course in Indian Astrology 251 
and children commits mistakes in writing and transactions. 

4. Vrishabha : Desire for unattainable women, without much 
wealth and probably with more than one wife. 

5. Thula : Famous rich and honoured in associations or vil- 
lage or town or country or army, wealthy. 

6. Kataka : Poor, deformed teeth, separation from mother 
devoid of education and children. 

7. Simha : Heavy responsibilities, not honoured, devoid of 
happiness and children. 

8. Dhanu or Meena : Good mind, trustworthy to authorities 
ministership leaders ofvillage or town or army, good wife and child- 
ren. 

9. Dhanu or Kumbha: Having others wealth and others 
women, leader of village or town or associations, small eye, dirty, 
steady, wealth and prosperity 

These indications also are to be applied with caution and may 
be used only as indicating the possibilities and they are not to be 
applied verbatim. 


The Sign Makara (Capricorn) 
UNIT - 55 


Makara (Capricorn) is the ninth sign ofthe zodiac extending 
from 270° to 300° and governed by Saturn. The asterisms in this 
sign are the last three quarters of Utharashadha, Sravana (full) 
and the first half of Sravishta. The first half of Makara is quad- 
ruped while the latter halfis watery. It is symbolised by a creature 
with the head ofa stag and a lower body ofa reptile. The transit of 
the Sun into Makara is an important moment and is known as the 
Makara-Samkrama. Makara is movable, feminine and is earthy. It 
is Prushtoadaya and strong at night. The sign 1s described by 
Parasara in his. Hoara-Sastbra as 

Mandaesas-thaamasca bhoomi: 

Yaamyaet-cha nisi veeryavaan 

Prushtoadayebruhatgaathra: 

Karburoa yvanabhoochara: °* 


252 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Aadow chathushpadanthaethu 

Dvipadoajalagoamatha: (V 19-20) 

(Makara, governed by Saturn is of thaamasa quality, of earth 
principle, dwelling in the south, strong at night, rising with hinder 
parts, of bulky body, of mixed colours, moving through the woods 
and land, the first halfis quadruped and the later half legless, and 
travelling in water) 

Itis also described as a lame sign, for example Jaathakapaari- 
jaatha describes 

"Mrugaanana-schapadhaerescha pangu- 

ssandhidwayee naasakarow bhavaetham" 

Makara is inimical to the Sun, neutral to Moon and Mercury 
and friendly to Venus. It is the sign of exaltation to Mars and of 
debilitation to Jupiter. It may also be noted that Mars is exalted in 
a Saturn's sign whereas Saturn is debilitated in Mesha governed by 
Mars. 

Makara is neither a long sign nor a short sign; it is of even 
length, Being a quadruped sign (first half) it is strong if it hap- 
pened to be the tenth house in a chart, As the second half is a wa- 
tery sign, itis strong if it becomes the fourth house in a nativity. 

It would be not very difficult for you now to predict the na- 
ture of Makara natives. The qualities of the sign and its lord modi- 
fied by the lordships of the different houses from the sign have to be 
properly blended. Makara natives usually would not be very strong 
or even weak with delayed growth. The. body is more likely to be 
tiny and not fleshy. Receded eyes, hard straight hair, thin face and 
slight bent in old age are possible. They would be patient, thought- 
ful and moderately spending. In all their work there woidd be a 
systematic approach and quickness; they would be leading in sev- 
eral matters if they want. 

They are afraid of criticism and complaints by others. They 
take care to be free from the influence of others and they do not 
come very close to any one easily. But once they become friends, 
they maintain the relation permanently. Makara natives are usu- 
ally lucky and also cunning If Saturn is favourable they would be 
straightforward and trustworthy but if Saturn is unfavourably dis- 
posed in the nativity, they woidd be greedy, selfish, stingy, crooked 
and would not hesitate to do any sinful deeds. Also such natives 
would never have any earnestness in their work and usually would 
have a strong tendency to postpone everything ina go slow atti- 
tude. Even if Saturn is favourable success in enterprise is possible 
only gradually and not abruptly, Makara natives would not have to 


A Course in-Indian Astrology 253 
be disappointed in reaching their aim, but would have to work hard. 

Makara borns have Venus as the lord of the fifth as well as 
tenth houses and so they would be liking arts and entertainments. 
They would always have friends and partners with them (Moon 
being the seventh lord). 

Saturn being exalted in Thula, the tenth from Makara is not 
unfavourable. Makara natives have the possibility of becoming top 
politicians and they would not be hasty at all. 

Makara sign represents the Knees of the Kaala purusha and. 
Mercury is the lord of the sixth. Hence malefic association of the 
sign or its lord would indicate diseases such as fractures, lameness, 
leg afflictions, Rheumatism skin diseases, nervous troubles, windy 
diseases etc. The combined periods ruled by Saturn, Mars and Moon 
and the asterisins of these planets might be death inflicting. Saturn 
is the lord of the second (Makara) and Mars is the lord ofthe elev- 
enth (Baadhaka position for movable signs). 


Generally Makara borns would be rather conservatives and 
they can constantly work for their success inspite of obstacles. They 
could always hold the wish to acquire wealth, fame and honour. 
Instead of seeking unexpected and abrupt income they would work 
for a constant and definite income. But some of the natives with 
unfavourable Saturn would go after black money too. Moderation 
in expenditure is their characteristic and as such they never waste 
their money. They have a special ability to manage financial mat- 
ters. They have also the habit of saving for the future. 

Strong and favourable Sun associated with Saturn indicates 
for the Makara native employment in government institutions, lo- 
cal bodies, public concerns, mines etc. Many would earn by rent. 

Benefic Moon-Saturn relation indicates dealings in petroleum 
products animals etc. and building bunds, tanks, ponds, wells etc. 
Mars-Saturn combination indicates professions such as dealing in 
metals, masonry engineering, tool making, cement etc. When Mer- 
cury and Venus are favourably related, the native may become en- 
gineer, detective novelist, philosopher, teacher of mathematical sci- 
ences, detective officer etc. Favourable Jupiter Saturn relation, in- 
dicates doctor, scientists and employment in education judiciary or 
finance departments. Venus Saturn relation if favourable and the 
native would be connected with medicines minerals, leather, slaugh- 
ter house etc. or sometimes renunciation to become a sanyasin. Weak 
Saturn may make the native to be associated with burial ground. 


Makara natives do not show desire for early Marriage. Gen 
erally many of them would have to lead a large family and they . 


254 A Course in Indian Astrology 
never escape from the responsibility. They do not show their affec- 
tion explicitly and exhibitive. They hke calmness and solitude and 
dislike noisy atmosphere. They would back out during quarrels in 
family and would never involve direct encounters. They would ac- 
quaint themselves with all but their intimate friends would be very 
few. Due to their skill in pleasing conversation, they get an honour- 
ableposition during quarrels 

Those born in the asterisms of Mars (Mrigaseersha Chitra, 
Sravishata) and of Venus (Bharani, Pooram and Poorvashaadah) 
would be favourable to Makara natives. 

As Mars, the lord of the fourth house is also the lord of the 
eleventh house there is possibility of earning through the mother, 
vehicles etc. but it also indicates the possibility of suffering for the 
mother. 

Makara natives can keep their emotions concealed. In sexual 
matters too they are extremely cautious in their approach to then- 
partners to such an extent that they might be misunderstood. 

Devotees, soldiers, wholesale, corporation, municipality, 
immovable properties, agriculture, animals, amphibians, those with 
no procreative power, masons, builders engineers, footwear, coffin, 
cement, brick, mortar, snow, skeleton, crocodile, alligator, fishing 
net, knees etc. are ah associated with Makara. 

Undergtound rooms, solitary rooms, hospitals, rehabilitation 
centres, jail, burial ground, tomb, cattleshed, barren land, pits, caves 
dark room, old buildings, temples, forest, storerooms and huts are 
the places associated with the Makara sign. 

Friday, Tuesday and Saturday are favourable for Makara na- 
tives. Tuesday and Sundays would be expensive, whole Monday is 
the day of legal affairs. Saturday is good for investment and Tues- 
day for signing documents. Wednesday is good for long journeys. It 
would be better to abstain from any important transactions on Mon- 
day and Tuesdays. 

Red, white and blue are favourable while yellow and ivory 
colours are not. Diamond, blue Sapphire and ruby are lucky stones. 

As in the case of other signs, here also what have been de- 
scribed are only. the possibilities for Makara natives. The results for 
each native would have to be read carefully from the nativity by the 
skill of the astrologer. Each house must be separately analysed with 
respect to house, its lord and significator. Also one would have to 
consider special combinations, strengths of planets and also the se- 
quence.ofDasas. Partial judgement will lead only to partial success 
which might, in predictions sometimes becomes synonymous with 


‘A Course in Indian Astrology 255 
failure. Therefore be extremely cautious in prediction. There are 
also other difficulties which we shall discuss along with the next 
unit when we would have completed all the signs. 

According to parasara, the nature of the different planets to- 
wards Makara natives is as follows 

Kuja jeevaendava: paapah 

subhow bhaargava  chandrajow 

svayam hanthaa na Manda:  syan- 

nighnanthyaaradayoasubhaa: 

samoa bhanurnigaditha: 

Kaviraeka: suyoagakruth 
Nakroadayee prajaathasya 
Jnaeyam aethat phalanx budhaih 
(Bruhatparaasara hoaarasasthram XXXV -38,39) 

(For the Makara native Mars, Jupiter and Moon are malefics 
while Venus and Mercury are benefics, Mars etc. are Maarakas 
Saturn is not Maaraka itself, Sun is neutral and Venus alone is 
Yoga-Kaaraka) 

¢ This must be remembered when judging the Makara native's 
chart 

The general nature of Makara ‘ascendent is described by 
Varaahamihira as follows: 

Nithyam laalithavaan — swadarathanayaan dharmadhwa- 

joadha: Krusa; 
Swarksha: kshaamakatirrgruheethavachana: soubhaagya 


yuktholasa: 
SeethaalurmanujoathaschaMakarae sathvaadhika: 

kaavyakrut 
Lubdoagamya: jaaraana ganasow nirtha santhyuaktha 

lajjoaguna: 


(Br uhajjaathaka XVI-10) 
Though this sloka is descriptive for a native with Moon in 
Makara the same would be the indications for Makara ascendent as 
well as is evident from the last sloka of the same chapter. 
According to varaahamilira Makara natives would always 
fulfil the desires of wife and children would act against all 
Dharmasasthras but would dupe others by making them believe 
that he is virtuous (in deceiving other). The lower part of the body 
would be thin eyes, would be pretty, would be learned in several 
sasthra (or be learned on the spiritual side) woidd be liked by all 
people, woidd be unskilled in work, be lazy, be hunting, cold be ofa 
travelling nature be strong and writing poetry and other literary 


256 A Course in Indian Astrology 
work be stingy, would be interested in old women who are forbid- 
den by age or status or the like would be devoid of shame and sym- 
pathy. 


The Sign Kumbha (Aquarius) 


UNIT 56 


In the foregoing units we have discussed the various aspects 
of the planets aud their astrological significance and also the signs 
owned by them. In this unit we come to the last of the series, the 
sign Kumbha governed by Saturn. 

Kumbha (Aquarius) is the eleventh sign of the zodiac extend- 
ing from 300" to 330" and comprising of the second half of the star 
Sravishta, the whole of Sathabhishak and the first three quarters 
of Poorvabhadrapada. 

The sign Kumbha is a controversial sign. According to 
Sathyacharya, Kumbha is an inauspicious sign, the reason is obvi- 
ous, it is the only sign, the lord of which has lordship of the sign 
twelfth from it. Also Kumbha is the Moolakshaethra of Saturn sig- 
nifying the sorrow of Kaalapurusha. However Yavanaacharya is 
not in agreement with Sathyacharya and postulates that only Kum- 
bha dwaadasamsa is inauspicious This is criticised by Vishnugupta 
who supports Sathyacharya. 

The sign is symbolised by a man holding an empty pot. It is a 
fixed sign, masculine, strong at day, short and seershoadaya. It is 
the last of the desire-trine (kaama-Trikona) Mithuna, Thula and 
Kumbha. 

Kumbha, governed hy Saturn the son of Sun, is a pot-bearing 
man, brown in colour, medium body, biped, day strong, moving in 
the middle of water, air-principle, rising by the front of thaamasa 
quality, soodra and dwelling in the west. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 257 

No planet has exaltation or debilitation in Kumbha. It is the 
Mooclakshethra of Saturn. It is friendly sign of Venus, inimical to 
Sun and neutral to others. 

The nature of the behaviour of various planets to Kumbha- 
natives, is described by Parasara thus. 

Jeevachandrakujah: paapah 

Subhow Kavya sanatscharow 

Raajayoagakaroa vidbhir- 

Bhargava: samudeeritha: 

Nighnantheenaara Jeevaasthu 

Sowmyoa madhyaphalaprada: 

Ghatoadayae prajaathasya 

Jnaeyam-aethath phalam  budhaih 

(Bruhatparaasarahoaraasasthram XXXV, 40,41) 

Jupiter, Moon and Mars are malefics to Kumbha native while 
Venus and Saturn are benefics. 

Venus is Raajayoaga-kaaraka, Mars and Jupiter are death 
inflicting (Maarakaas) while Mercury is neutral. 

Kumbha native's general characteristics are described by 
Varaahamihira thus: 

(Kumbha native is characterised by camel-hke neck, veins 
prominent and protruding, plenty of bristle-like hair, tall body, 
slightly abnormal size for feet, and thighs, back side, face and waist 
defective hearing, interest in others women and other's possessions, 
ups and downs in wealth and consequent alternation ofluxury and 
poverty. interest in cosmetics, flowers and relatives and liking for 
walking) (Bruhajjathakam XVI-11). 

Kumbha natives have a tendency to do sinful deeds and then 
to keep this concealed to themselves (Pracchannapaapa) and in this 
respect they resemble Vrischika natives; Vrischika is described as 
"Chchannapaapa-Rasi" meaning sin-hiding. 

Though Kumbha natives have a tendency to have an unat- 
tractive body, if Venus, the significator of beauty is favourably re- 
lated to the sign andif there is no malefic aspects or influence, the 
native would have handsome features and proportionate body. There 
is also possibility of brown hair and many Kumbha natives have 
teeth defects or dental diseases. 

Kumbha natives would usually he intelligent and more than 
that hard-working, inspite of failures they would continue their ef- 
forts till they reach their goal, Before they do anything they would 
consider all the pros and cons. And they are not susceptible to flat- 
tery. 


258 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Though they are a little slow to grasp any idea or concept, 
once they grasp it they retainit permanently due to enormous retain- 
ing capacity. 

They have good understanding about their environments and 
talk frankly and are not at all selfish. They are. helpful to others, 
humane and sociable. They have an ability to bring together per- 
sons separated mentally and they may sacrifice their own interests 
for that purpose. 

To be different from others even in dress, is a characteristic 
of the Kumbha native. They do not frequently change their atti- 
tudes and opinions. Their affection, familiarity and companionship 
are long-standing. They can work with all their earnestness in any 
matter. As such they shine in research work. Being the diagonal 
sign, of Simha, one finds characteristics for Kumbha natives which 
are opposite to that of Simha. Simha sign leads to happiness in 
worldly matters but being governed by the philosopluc minded 
Saturn Kumbha borns are frequently thinkers, sages, silence seek- 
ers and sometimes otherworldly. They like to act and uot to preach 
about service. 


Since the Dhana-kaaraka, Jupiter governs the second (Meena) 
house (wealth) and the eleventh (Dhanus) house (gain) they usu- 
ally have good status with respect to family and wealth Lord of the 
third and tenth houses (Mars) would confer interest in learning, 
fame and honour, Venus ruling over the fourth and ninth houses 
confers affection and respect to parents. Mercury is neutral being 
the lord of the favourable fifth and the unfavourable eighth. Moon 
being the lord of the sixth is malefic and confers mental worries. 
Sun being Saturn's enemy, is not favourable for Kumbha-natives. 

Therefore they havelow withstanding power towards diseases 
and contagious diseases are possible. Blood circulation also may be 
affected. They do not have much ability to withstand cald. malaria, 
rheumatic fever etc. are possible. Kumbha represents the ankles 
and calf muscles and hence diseases such as varicese veins and 
filariasis are also possible. The watery planet, Moon is the sixth 
lord (disease-significator) and the sixth house, kataka is a watery 
sig. Thus swelling and filariasis are possible. 

Kumbha natives are not inclined to earn from a number of 
sources. As the pot which travels a long distance down a well and 
then collect the water in a single dip and rise up withfilledin water 
the Kumbha native usually catches hold ofa source of earning after 
coutinued efforts and then earns well through that source. They 
are neither lavish nor stingy. As water is let outin a controlled way 


A Course in Indian Astrology 259 
from pot, the Kumbha-native spends with control. 

On account of the lordship of the sixth house (service) goes to 
the Moon, many Kumbha natives have medicine, social service, ship- 
ping, petroleum products, pumpsets etc. connected with their occu- 
pation. 

Due to the lordship of the tenth house by Mars, many Kum- 
bha natives are occupationally connected with metals, chemicals, 
building, minerals, kilns, ovens, cement, surgery, murder, slaugh- 
ter, haircutting, criminal investigation departments etc. 

If Mercury (lord of 5 and 8) is favourably related to the sec- 
ond and sixth houses Kumbha natives may be involved in trading, 
press management, accountancy, translator service, handwriting 
identification, finger print identification, astronomy, astrology etc. 
If Venus is similarly disposed the native night become a poet, mu- 
sician painter. 

Like the Makara natives, Kumbha natives also do not exhibit 
their affection and love to their loved ones and they are often misun- 
derstood in this respect. Women born in Kumbha even choose, an- 
other husband, if they do not hke the first,.but if they hke their 
husbands, they woidd do any sacrifice for them. 

Children of Kumbha natives would love and respect the par- 
ent, Jupiter (significator) and Mercury (lord of the house) control 
the matters associated with children of Kumbha natives. 

Defence department, industry, metals, surgeons, wool, silk, 
electric equipment, railway, transport, bus, water-based products, 
fishing trades, laundry, distillation, boat jetty, robbery, murder, 
atheism, birth and death registration etc. are associated with Kum- 
bha sign. 

Hilly places, brooks, caves, rooftop, mines, trenches, dig out 
places, window, tunnels, places where musical instruments are kept, 
ladder, staircase, etc. are also associated with Kumbha. 

Arabia, Abyssinia, Prussia, Russia, Poland, Sweden and Salis- 
bury are signified by Kumbha sign. 

Thursday, Friday and Tuesday are good for Kumbha natives. 
Wednesday and Sunday are inauspicious. 

Yellow, red white and cream are favourable colours while or- 
ange, green and blue are not favourable. 

Kumbha natives, may feel disappointment and tendency to 
lock up in loneliness ifthe planets are unfavourable. They may also 
feel a hatred to others. This tendency should be realised and they 
must try to be cheerful and engaged in activities. They must avoid 
irritating those who approach them. Loneliness should be prevent- 


260 A Course in Indian Astrology 
ed and they should never feel frustrated, Those who are close to 
Kumbha natives should take care of these precautions. 


Raahu and Kethu (The Nodes) 


UNIT 57? 


As in the case of the other celestial bodies there are several 
legends about Raahu and Kethu. The hidden secrets of science would 
be sometimes more delirious when we add some fiction to them. 
Though alien to the science of astrology there are some mythologi- 
cal legends associated with most of the astrological objects and con- 
cepts. In course of time the legends and similes threatened Astrol- 
ogy to be branded as fiction Similies are almost always absurd but 
sometimes scientists too take frequent resort to similies are almost 
always absurd but sometimes scientists too take frequent resort to 
similies. The legend of Raahu and Kethu described as the head and 
trunk of a serpent and also the folk tale that eclipse occurs on ac- 
counts of the sun or moon being swallowed by Raahu have become 
tools to brand astrology as superstition. This argument is clearly 
baseless because it is founded on folk tale There is no such refer- 
ence in Astrological treatises. 


Rahu and Kethu are perhaps not so important as the other 
planets for they have no sign of their own in the zodiac. But they 
have been assigned 3 asterisms each as for other planets. It is possi- 
ble that Rahu and Kethu would have been introduced at a latter 
stage of development. In dasa allotment also in some systems Rahu 
and Kethu are omitted so also is assigning week days each major 
planet including the sun has been given one day but Rahu and Kethu 
are omitted. 


These two are called chaahyaagrahas meaning shadow plan- 
ets or thamoagrahas probably meaning points of darkness. They 
are really two definite points of the zodiac and are the points of 
intersection of the orbits of Moon and sun (relative orbit) around 
the earth. They are called the ascending node (Raahu) and the de- 
scending node (Kethu) and astronomically must be diametrically 


A Course in Indian Astrology 261 
opposite to each other. So also the motion of these points along the 
zodiac must be in the direction opposite to the motion of sun and 
moon. (Remember for ease of calculation we consider relative move- 
ments with earth static) This is equivalent to the actual motions 
and is simpler to conceive. The occurrence of eclipses are definitely 
related to the nodes that is the longitude of the two points of in- 
tersection coming to definite relative separations. The ancient sages 
have given very accurate calculations of eclipses and they have not 
considered any folk tale or legend in their calculations. It must be 
emphasised that they could calculate and predict eclipses and their 
exact duration which may be verified even today. Astronomically 
exact informations are given about eclipses in Bruhatsamhita (chap 
V) of Varahamihira. 


Though Raahu and Kethu are distinct points they have also 
been assigned certain significations and characteristics of course in 
the same symbolic and poetical way peculiar to Astrology. Such as- 
signments are quite useful in predictions. For instance instead of 
stating that Venus in favourable positions would make the native 
handsome, it has been stated that Venus is handsome, with curly 
hair and nice eyes etc. Venus is also called Kavi (poet) to show the 
significations of poetic tendencies. The planet is not the poet but it 
causes the native to be a poet, So the influences of each planet on 
the native are collected and personified to postulate the character- 
istics of the planet. So it isnot the real characteristic of the planets, 
but the characteristics which that planet would confer on the na- 
tive. ltis an age old custom in India to personify several agencies of 
nature and to consider them as the 'devatha'. Thus we have a devatha 
for each village for rain, for fire, for air, for space, for disease, for 
forest, for water, for the ocean etc. The same method is adopted in 
astrology too. So it would be realised that though we have described 
each planet and each sign by the same method of personifying the 
characteristics (which the planet or sign confers on the native) in a 
symbolic way, it really describes what a native is to get on account 
of the particular position of the planet. 


Raahu and Kethu also have been assigned definite 
significations as well as characteristics (swaroopa) let us follow the 
same method (see also unit 3). 

Though Raahu and Kethu have not been given any lordship, 
certain signs have been considered as their own house, 
Moolakshethra and exaltation. However this allotment is described 
with slight variations by different authorities and it is advisable to 
follow one's own favourite authority: it is also advisable to decide 


262 A Course in Indian Astrology 
the exaltation sign, Moolakshethra and swakshethra by your own 
research-and analysis of familiar horoscopes. 

According to Parasara the following allotments are made for 
purposes ofjudgement of Dasaphala (judgement of the periods) 

Raahoasthu vrushapham kaethoa: 

vrischikam thungasamjnakam . 

Moolathrikenakam yug'mam 

chaapam vaedyam yathakramam 

ghataalee api vaa kanyaa ° 

Mcenow kaishaid gruhae smruthea 

(Bruhatparaasarahparasasthram chap 48 verses 35,36) 

According to these verses Raahu has Kumbha, Mithuna and 

Vrishabha as the swakshethra, Moolakshethra and exaltation sign 

While Kethu has Vrischika, Dhanuand Vrischika as the correspond- 
ing signs. According to another view Kanya and Meena have been 
described as the signs owned by Raalu and Kethu. In the same 
book at another context parasara writes thus: 

Kuleerae vrischikaegow thu 

Kanyaayaam chaapagaepi  vaa 

Thath bhukthow raajasaminanam 

vasthravaahanabhooshanam 

(Bruhatparasara hoaraasasthraim chap 56 verse 1) 

When Raahu is posited in Kataka, Vrischika, Kanya or Dha- 
nus royal honour and gifts of dress and ornaments are conferred 
during the period of Raahu. This indicates that the above signs are 
favourable positions of Raaliu. 

There is difference in text mm Original Sanskrit and Malayalam 
Editions. There is a slight variation of the former verses (48-35-36 
on p. 167 of the Malayalam edition we find. 

Rahoasthu— vrushaphatn — keethor 

vrischikam thungasamjanakam 

Moolathrikonam Karkancha 

Yugmdchacapowthathaivacha 

Kanyaacha  swagruhtam proaktham 

Meenumcha swagruham smautham 

. According to this version the exaltation signs are Vrishabha 
and Vrischika (saime as those given in the other editions) 
Moolakshethra for Raahu is kataka (instead of Mithuna) and for 
Kethu Mithuna and Dhanus are both the Moolakshethra (instead 
of Dhanus). The swakshethrasin the Trivandruin edition while in 
the Varanasi edition there are Kumbha Vrischika, though it is stated 
that some are of opinion that Kanya and Meena are the 


A Course in Indian Astrology 263 
swakshethras. In this connection it may be remembered that there 
is a Malayalam proverb "Kutathilae Paampu Kattkkilla” meaning 
that serpent inside the pot would not bite. Serpent means Raahu is 
harmless in Kumbha. Hence Most astrologers consider Kumbha as 
favourable to Raahu. 

Moreover Jaathakapaarijaetha in the second half of verse-29 
of chapter 1 describes thus: 

Kumbha thrikonam phanianayakasya 

Thungam — nruyugmam — ramaneegruham _ syath 

This means that for Raahu Kumbha is Moolathrikona 
(Moolakshetra) Mithuna is the exaltation sign and Kanya is 
swakshethra. In the second chapter of Jaathakapaarijaatha verse 
2-68 runs thus: 

Maeshaalikumbha tharunee vrushakarkataeshu 

Maeshooranae cha balavaanuragaadhipassyath 
Kanyaavasaana vrushachaapadharae nisaayaam 

Uthpaathakaethjananae balee sihhee  syaath 

According to this Raahu is strong in the signs Mesha, Vris- 
chika Kumbha Kanya, Vrishabha and kataka while Kethuis strong 
in the sign Kanya Meena Vrishabha and Dhanus. 

According to Bhavartharatnakara of Raamanujacharya yet 
another allotment is given 


Exaltution Moola Swak Friendly 
kshetra shethra sign 
Rahu Vrishabha Mithuna Kanya Maesha 
and Kataka 
Kaethu Vrischika Dhanus and Meena Thula 
Makara 


(chapter XIV verses 28, 29 and 30) 

According to Bhavakuthoohalam of Jeevanaatha Rahu has 
Mithuna as the sign of exaltation and kaethu has exaltation in 
Dhanus (the first degree in each being the respective points of exal- 
tation in the signs). According to one commentator of this book, 
Raahu and kaethu have Kanya and Meena as swakashetras and 
Mithuna and Meena as the respective Moolakshetras. 

In his commentary to Horosara of prithuyas (son of 
varahamihira) the well known commentator R.Santhanam has dis- 
cussed about these varied views in this regard In ‘Vridhasaimhita”™ 
and ‘Jyotishamrita’ Kumbha is pwned by Raahu and Vrischika by 
Kaethu. According to a Tamil work Raahu owns Kumbha but no 
house is a allotted to kaethu. According to Tamil authors both Raahu 
and kaethu are exalted in Vrischika and debilitated in Vrishabha/ 


264 A Course in Indian. Astrology 
Jaatakachintha moni agrees with the allotment for Raahu and but 
for kaethu Gemini is the sign of exaltation and Dhanus debilita- 
tion. According to syamasangraham Gemini is the exaltation sign 
of Raahu and Dhanu the debilitation sign, the reverse being true 
for kaethu, Sarvaartha chinthamani considers Vrishabha as the 
exaltation sign and Vrischika as the debilitation sign of Rahu and 
the reverse allotment for kaethu. 

So, to conclude the authorities are divided in their opinions 
regarding the allotment of signs to the shadow planets an import- 
ant point which suggests that Raahu and kaethu would have en- 
tered Astrology at a. later stage of development. It is advisable to 
form one's own conclusions regarding this matter after analysing 
several known horoscopes. It is also advisable to follow any experi- 
enced astrologer who deserves your respect. We leave the matter 
open to you to stimulate research. 

It has also been stated in the works of Tamil authors that 
when Raahuis in Makara and Kaethu is in kataka the native woidd 
become extremely learned even though he would not have had even 
school education. Examples are quoted in many tamil books and we 
have this Yoga also for your research. 

¢ Both Raahu and kaethu are first rate malefics forbidding 
everything undesirable. In this respect Raahu is treated as similar 
to Saturn while kaethu to Mars. (sanivad Raahu: Kujavath kaethu:) 

Kethu is a fiery planet like Mars and Sun. However in spite 
of maleficity Raahu and kaethu confer excellent characteristics if 
properly disposed. Strong Raahu confers prosperity as well as sharp 
intellect and a strong Kethu induces spiritual thoughts 

As they do not own any house (the different allotments de- 
scribed earlier are for purposes of Daasaphala etc. according to 
Parasara) Raahu and kaethu give the results of the house of occupa- 
tion modified by their associations with other planets. 

Raahu is the significator of pithamaha (fathers father) while 
kaethu is the significator of Mathamaha (mothers father) in 
nativities. 

Raahu confers a mean, low class and wicked mind and signi- 
fies cruelty and animal character. On the whole kaethu would not 
go to such a low level, though it is also as malefic as its counterpart. 
Both induce tendencies of intoxication and drugging. 


Significations of Raahu and Kethu 


The significations of Raahu and Kethu are given in 
Bruhajaathaka Paddathi of Puliyoor Purushothaman Namboodiri. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 265 

Raahu: stays, nail, string creeper needle, snake, poison 
diseases, accidents, snake-pits, bushes, woods, dog, spider, perspire 
snads, jackal, fame, scabies, strong poisons, paternal grandfather 
river, bamboo, pits, holes, fort, inaccessible spots, umbrella false- 
hood, deep-water, canals, deformations of hands, foot and eyes lep- 
rosy and skin diseases. 

Kaethu: Meteor, flame, stay, nail, flag, flagmast, mining, 
slaughter throws, needlework, stitching, weaving, ash, alkah, cin- 
der, eggs, liquor, blood, meat, black-art, poisoning, black-magic glow- 
worm, lice, flies, mosquitoes, dirt, sacrificial offering and kdling, 
magic and occult practices, fight, weapon, weapon training, death 
quarrel maternal grandfather. 

In addition to these Raahu signifies, low level births dissatis- 
faction sadism, prostitution, drowning suicide, blush dark colour 
lead, dental deformation, deformations of limbs, and hills ete., 
Kaethu signifies wounds and scars and the body smoking, treasure, 
uncivilised pain, sorrows. pdgrimage, spiritual thinking, salvation, 
hunger devotion to Siva and Ganapthy imprisonment ete. 

Raahu can confer hiccough, palpitations curse due to serpents 
worms contagious viral diseases sex excesses gambling rheumatism 
and epdepsy. Kaethu is similar to mars when malefic. 

During the dasa of Rahu favourably posited and having ben- 
efic aspects and conjunctions royal prosperity happiness at home 
plenty of wealth. fame and realisation of desire are possible. But 
towards the end the dasa the gains might be lost in the Dasa of an 
unfavourable and malefic Raahu there would be trouble from thief 
authorities poison weapou and the wicked. loss of position accidents 
for the legs, mental imbalances loss of children are all possible. 
Kaethu's periods are similar and if malefic there may be fire acci- 
dents. 

Rahu is of air principles while Kethu is of the first principles. 
They may cause air crash and fire disasters respectively. 

Raahu hke Saturn is One of the determinants of death. They 
periods of those planets conjoined with Raahu even though benefi- 
cial ultimately would confer only sorrows. 


266 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Mandi (Gulika) 
UNIT -58| 


"Gulika" also known as Maandi, meaning offspring of Saturn 
(son of Manda/ is a very important pseudo-planet especially in south 
India, particularly in Kerala. According to some authorities Gulika 
and Maandi are different concepts. Gulika is of extreme importance 
in horary astrology (Prasna), From the dictyms of the ancient au- 
thors we know how to calculate the longitude of Maandi but we are 
yet to know its astronomical significance. It may be treated as a 
sensitive point of the zodiac. 

According to the legendary descriptions, each planet has an 
offspring (puthragraha) Sun's son is Saturn. Saturn's sun is Maandi 
or Gulika. Moon's sun is'the planet Mercury Mars son is Ardha- 
prahara. Jupiter's son is Yamakantaka. Mercury's son is Kaala. 
Venus"s son is Yaamakantaka. Here the word 'son need not be taken 
in the literal sense. 1t need only be taken as ‘influenced by' or re- 
sultant from. According to paraasara a slightly different descrip- 
tion is given, by means of which these sensitive points can be fixed 
up in the zodiac. However, Maandi being most popular in Kerala, it 
would be better to follow the conventions followed in Kerala.astrol- 
ogy. 

The time at which Maandi rises is as follows, forday time and 
night time on each weak day. 


Day of the week Time of rise of Maandi 
_ Day time Night 
(gha ties from (ghaties from 
sunrise) sunset) 
Sunday 26 10 
Monday ‘22 6 
Tuesday 18 2 
Wednesday 14 26 
Thursday 10 22 
Friday 6 18 


Saturday 2 14 


A Course in Indian Astrology 267 

lf should he noted that the Gulika-rise during the night of 
any weak day is the same as the time of rise during the daytime of 
the fifth weak-day counted from the weak-day in question. 

The times given above is for days of 30 Ghati (-12hrs) dura- 
tion and for similar nights. lf the daytime and night time are great- 
er or lesser than 12 hours the rising time must be increased or 
decreased proportionately. For instance, ifon a Thursday night hav- 
ing a total span of 31 Ghati (=12h 14m), the time of rise of Gulika is 
2x31/30 Ghati after sunset and not 2 Ghati as given in the table. 
The times may be expressed in hour-minute-second froin the fact 
that 1 Ghati= 24 min. Now we can easily find out the longitude of 
¢ Gulika (Maandi) by finding out the rising Lagna at this time of rise 
exactly as we found out birth Lagna (Ascendent), we have described 
the method in unit 5. Almanacs from Kerala give the Maandi sign 
during each day and night. 


The other sensitive points Yaamasukre, Yamakantaka, 
Ardhaprahara and kaala are not as useful as Maandi. Their rising 
times are easily obtained by subtracting 4 Ghati from the Gulika 
time successively and 12 Ghatis for the last one. Thus for Sunday 
the daytime rise of Maandi, Yaamasukra, Yamakantaka, 
Ardhaprahara are kaala respectively 26, 22, 18, 14 and 2, since the 
same numbers repeat it is very easy to locate each of them. 

A very snuple method to find the sign of each of these pseudo 
planets from a knowledge of the Gulika time is given in the well 
known Kerala treatise Jaathakaadesa- 

Ishtagrahaad —_yaava dinaatmajaantham 

Thaththaddinaad thaavathithae dinae ya: 

Maandi; sa aevaeshtakhageatmajasyaad 

Raathrowthu thatpanchama vaaseroaktha: . 7 

(ch VII, sl. 23) 

To know the rising time of the sonofa graha (planet meaning 
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn, their sons being re- 
spectively Ardhaprahara, kaala, yamakantaka yamasukra Maandi) 
count from that graha to Saturn (in the order of week days) Count 
from Sunday the same number. The Gulika time of this day is the 
rise time of the required pseudo planet, The rise time at night is the 
same as the rise time on the day time of the fifth week day. 


The cakulation of the exact longitude of the pseudo planets 
would be described later. For the moment let us consider only 
Maandi, considered to be identical with Gulika. Maandi is very im- 
portant in horoscope (Jathaka) horary (Prasna) and election of time 
(Muhoortha). 


268 A Course in Indian Astrology 

Among planets and pseudo planets Maandi is the most evil 
especially when it is associated with Saturn. The lord of the sign 
occupied by Maandi also becomes malefic. Astrological works de- 
scribes the effects of Maandi in each house as well as in conjunction 
with each planet. 

According to prasnamaarga Maandi if posited in the Lagna 
one has to understand the possibilities of disease and accidents for 
limbs: Phaladepika describes the effect of Maandi in the lagna as 
follows. 

Choara; krooroa  vinayarahithoa vaedasaasthrarthaheenoa 

Naathisthooloa nayanavikruthoa naathidheernaathipu 

Naalpaahaaree stukhavirahithoa lampatoa naathijeevee 

Sooroa na syaadapi jadamathi: koapanoa Maandi  lagnae 

(25-8) 

If Maandi is posited in the lagna, the native would be a thief 
cruel and without humility. He does not become fat. His eyes would 
be afflicted. He would not have several children and would not be of 
high intellect. He would eat a lot would not have happiness would 
be attracted to women and would not learn Vaedaas an saasthraas). 

Remember if you find Maandi in the lagna ofa horoscope do 
not make haste to attribute all the above evils to the native. These 
are only possibilities and there must be other indications as well for 
instance for afflictions of the eye one has to find afflictions of the 
houses representing the eyes and also of the planets signifying the 
eyes. Maandi in lagna would be an additional indication Judging 
the horoscope is not so easy as to apply the theorems as such One 
must be careful. 


Similar dictums are there for each of the houses. We would 
learn in detail along with judging of houses, Likewise , when Maandi 
joins the sun the native might suffer ill-health may have to insult 
his father or teacher may not be getting proper help and support 
from authorities etc. Conjunction of Maandi with each planets has 
its own indications which the wise astrologer would bear in mind in 
reading the effects of each house. 

Maandi is very much associated with death of the native and 
also birth of the native. For instance it is most often found that the 
lagna would fall on the sign which is a trine (fifth or ninth) of the 
sign occupied by Maandi or by lord of Maandi’s sign. 

Thus Maandi is extreme by useful in astrological predictions 
and judgement of birth charts in election of proper time for various 
functions and in horary astrology. 

More about Maandi would be discussed m later chapters. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 269 

Now that we have completed our journey through the twelve 
signs of the zodiac, we are sufficiently equipped with the tools of 
effective prediction, though we have to consider the shadow-plan- 
ets Raahu (Dragon's head) and Kethu (Dragon's tail) which are two 
sensitive points of space. 

Before we start predictions on the basis of the dictums and 
descriptions given in the previous units, it is advisable to study- 
some important classics in astrology like Jaathakadesa or 
Brulajjathaka or Jaathakapaarijaatha. In judging horoscopes the 
famous two volume treatise by the well known Dr. B. V. Raman 
How to judge a horoscope vols-l and II would be of immense help. 
One has to enter into water in order to learn swimming and it would 
be foolish if one decides to enter water only after learning to swim. 
So start straightaway and do some analysis of known horoscopes, 
why not it be Yours? 


In deriving the general nature of each native it is essential to 
remember that the characteristics of a particular sign would be 
shown not only by the lagna falling in that sign but also by the 
Moon falling in that sign. To be more accurate the Sun sign also 
should be taken account of Therefore usually the Ascendent sign 
or the Moon sign whichever is stronger is taken as the birth nativ- 
ity to derive the general characteristics. They are known as the 
vidhi lagna (fate sign) and Mathi lagna (Moon sign) the sunsign is 
spoken as the gathi lagna. 

If the Ascendent and Moon sign are different one has to blend 
both the characteristics in prediction. When one is considerably 
stronger than the other the stronger may be taken. But we have 
not considered the details of strengths of houses planets ete. which 
will be dealt in detail in the coming units 

Therefore analyse carefully and if your predictions go wrong 
, findout where you have gone wrong, predictions when correctly 
done would be completely correct. When there is an error, then we 
would have missed some observations. So perfect is the science of 
Astrology, as we would realize it in due course. 

Start reading right now and start some practical work of your 
own choice. Best of luck. 


270 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Calculation of the 
Longitudes of Planets 


UNIT - 59 


In our discussions so far we had learned only how to find out 
the sign in which the Ascendent and each of the planets are placed. 
A signis a wide span of 30" By specifying the sign in which a par- 
ticular planet is placed at a birth time we are giving the location as 
within the particular 30* space. But we want more accuracy for the 
positions of planets as well as Ascendent because then only the pre- 
diction will be accurate. In other words we want to calculate the 
exact longitudes of planets as well as the Ascendent. These 
longitudes are called the ‘Sputa’ For Purpose of Prediction are re- 
quired the ‘Sputa’ or longitude and not merely the sign. Before we 
proceed further it is advisable to revise the units in which the broad 
principle of construction of birth chart is dealt with (Units 3 and 5). 


In ancient times, based on astronomical rules and relations 
astrologers calculated the positions of various planets on each day 
of the year and tabulated these positions (longitudes) in the alma- 
nac in a convenient way. These methods are now only of historical 
interest because today we make use of computers for calculation of 
planetary positions which are available for any day in the past, 
present and future. In good almanacs the planetary longitudes are 
tabulated for each day of the year, at a specified time-usually 5.30 
a.m., Indian Standard Time (JST). In cheaper ordinary almanacs 
the planetary longitudes would be given' for the first ofeach month 
at 5.30 am. The daily motion of each planet also would be given. 
This is known as gathi sometime indicated by.(+). This is marked in 
ephemeris by the letter D meaning Direct Movement. 


Frequently however, when viewed form earth some planets 
(Mars to Saturn) may appear to move im the reverse direction on 


A Course in Indian Astrology 271 
account of the complexity of planetary motion. Actually the planets 
are moving in the same direction around the Sun, but for us on 
earth they appear to reverse their direction of motion around us. 
This is known as the Yetrograde movement? ofthe planet or “Vakra 
Gathi'. Sun and Moon do hot have retrograde motion. Rahu and 
Kethu always move in retrograde motion. The retrograde move- 
ment is indicated in almanacs as ‘Vigath? or with a negative sign (- 
). In the almanacs where the daily planetary positions are given the 
retrograde motion can be identified by the change in the planetary 
positions are given the retrograde motion can be identified by the 
change in the longitude on each day. In ephemeris this is marked 
by the letter 'R' meaning retrogration. 


Similarly in almanacs the position of the Moon is to he ob- 
tained from the beginning of each ‘Nakshatra’ (star) and its end 
which are given in Ghatis and Vighatis after sunrise on each day. 
Remember that the passage of the Moon through each successive 
13° 20' of the zodiae represents each asterism (Nakshathra) form 
Aswini onwards. It is better to avoid confusions due to mixing up of 
ancient methods calculations and the modern methods. The latter 
is quite easy and less cumbersome. However, even if we use alma 
nacs as. astrologers we should use such almanacs in which the daily 
planetary positions are given. All the necessary astrological and 
astronomical data are available in what are called ‘Ephemeris’. For 
instance, “Lahiri’sIndian Ephemeris" (published by Astro-research 
Bureau, 17, Brindaban Mullick 1st lane, Calcutta-9,)is very widely 
used throughout India, It is published for each year. In this 
ephemeris the Nirayana systems or Sidereal system which is the 
Indian system, is followed. This is different from the western sys- 
tem known as the Saayana system. More knowledge about these 
systems would be necessary for further discussion 


Sayana and Nirayana Systems - The Ayanaamsa 


In order to divide the zodiac into section of 30° each (sign) 
one requires a reference point to start with (See Units 2 to 4). Ac- 
cording to the Indian system (Nirayana systems) we take the con- 
stellations (stars) as fixed points and we start with the direction of 
the star Aswini as the zero. 30° measured from this line drawn 
from earth to Aswini would form the sign Mesha and so on. The 
star Revathi also may be taken as the reference star. As the Sun 
crosses the equator twice in an year, the ecliptic and the celestial 
equator intersect at two points. On these two days the day and night 
would be of equal length throughout the world. These two points 


272 A Course in Indian Astrology 
are known as the vernal equinox and the autumnal equinox. Ac- 
cording to astronomical reasoning it has been shown that the earth 
aswell as the zodiac slips westward through an angle slightly 
above 50" every year. This is called the precession of the equinoxes. 
In the Sayana system used in western astrology, the signs are reck- 
oned from the actual equinoctial points, while in the Nirayana sys- 
tem followed in Hindu astrology, the sign Mesha begins with the 
reference star (Revathi/Aswini) which is fixed. Hence according to 
the western system the zodiac slips continuously due to precessional 
motion and this method is known as the movable-zodiac-system. 
The difference in degrees of arc between the two systems of locating 
a celestial planet or point is known as the 'Ayanaamsa' which con- 
tinuously goes on increasing at the rate of 50 18 seconds of arcs in 
each year. 


The exact date on which both these zodiac coincided have 
been given variously by various authors, and hence regarding the 
magnitude of Ayanaamsa there are differences of opinion among 
experts. (Sree B.V.Raman, 'A Manual of Hindu Astrology', IBH 
Prakashana, Gandhinagar, Bangalore - 560 009, 1983). However, 
It is advisable to follow any one Ayanaamsa consistently, according 
to the recommendation of your Guru or according to your own con- 
clusion based on the correctness of the results predicted. 

Lahiri's Ayanaamsa is very widely followed in India and it is 
available for any day from Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris, which is avail- 
able throughout India. 

The Ayanaamsa is very much necessary for us, because in 
western ephemeris and in astronomical tables the positions of plan- 
ets are tabulated according to the Sayana system. Hence in order to 
obtain the Planetary position corresponding to any epoch we would 
have to find out the Sayana Longitude from the Ephemeris and 
then to reduce it to the Nirayana longitudes by subtracting the 
Ayanaamsa for the day. However, in Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris and 
in some others as well as in Indian almanacs (Panchaangas) one 
finds the Nirayana longitudes of planets of course with slight vari- 
ations in different editions. 


How to find out the Longitudes of Planets 


UNIT - 60 


.Though there are old methods of calculating the Graha- 
sputaas (longitudes of Planets) by tedious astronomical calculations, 
today very rarely one adopts that method. This is because with the 


A Course in Indian Astrology 273 
available facilities now we get the positions of every planet at any 
instant oftime and these have been obtained by actual observation 
in conjunction with the known laws of planetary motions. 

So now, let us learn how to find out the exact longitudes. of 
planets using an Ephemeris or an almanac in which daily planetary 
positions are given. In this discussion we are following mainly the 
Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris. In this ephemeris the planetary posi- 
tions (longitudes) are tabulated in the Nirayana System, for each 
day at 5.30 a.m. IST (Indian Standard Time). So it is necessary for 
us to know the exact time of any epoch in IST. There are other 
Indian and western ephemeris. But we are referring in this corre- 
spondence course to the ephemeris of Prof. Lahiri. (the Indian Stand- 
ard Time is fixed as the local mean time at 82" 30' E longitude. As 
you might know, the local mean time would vary according to the 
longitude of the place, by 4 minute per degree longitude. This would 
be discussed later). 


The longitude ofeach planet at any particular epoch is calculat- 
ed from the longitudes of that planet at 5.30 a.m. [ST on 23-04- 
1989. Let us calculate the longitudes of planets from Lahiri's Indian 
Ephemeris 


Longitude of Sun: 


From the Ephemeris, we find out first the positions of the 
Sun at 5.30. a.m. on 23-04-89 and also at 5.30 a.m..on-24-04-89 (ie. 
before and after the epoch). 

Position at 5.30 a.m. on 
23-04-89- = 0’ 09° OF 30" 

This means that at 5.30 a.m, on 23-04-89 Sun was at the 
Nirayana-longitude Zero Sign (Mesha) Nine degree Six minute 
Thirty second fromour reference line (Earth-Aswini-like) So at this 
time the Sun has moved through 9° 06' 30" from the beginning of 
Mesha and hence Sun is transiting through the sign Mesha and has 
reached the 9° 06' 30" point in-the sign Mesha. 

Position of Sun at 5.30 a.m. 
on 24-04-89. =  0* 10" 04'57" 

The Meaning is clear. Note that during the 24 hours Sun has 
moved from the point 9° 06' 30" to the point 10. 04' 57" both in the 
sign Mesha. So what would be the position ofthe Sun at 10 a.m. IST 
on 23-04-89 ? The calculation is fairly simple. 

Motion ofthe Sun during 
24 hours = O* 10° 04' 57" 
= O* 9 Of 30" 
O* 0 58' 27" 


274 


A Course in Indian Astrology 


(Remember 1 degree= 60' 
1 minute ofarc - 60" 


1 sign= 30° ) 


From 5.30. a.m. on 23-04-89 our epoch (10 a.m. IST} is 4 hours 
30 min away. Let us call this the interval. 


Interval =e 


10 hr 0 min — 
5 hr 30 min 
4 br 30 min 


Thusifon 23-04-89 the Sun was at 9° 06' 30" in Mesha at 5.30 
a.m. What is its position at 10 a.m., that is after 4 hr. 30 min. ? We 
have to calculate the motion ofthe Sun during this interval of 4 hr. 
and 30 min. and add it to the position at.5.30 a.m. 


Motion in 24 hr. — 


Motion in 01 hr.= 
Therefore Motion in 
4 hr. 30 min.* 


Ik th 


58' 27” 
58! 27° + 24 


(58 27" x 4 hr. 30 min.) 
eg 
0" 10' 57.56". 

oO” 10’ 58" 


[This was calculated by using a scientific calculator. For cal- 
culations the learners are advised to use scientific calculator], 

This can be evaluated by the. use of the 'Proportional Loga- 
rithm table’ also, given at the end of the Ephemeris .the Table of 
proportional logarithm table used is given at the end of the book) 

Take the logarithm corresponding to the daily motion of the 
planet (ie. corresponding to the motion in 24 hours). Take the loga- 
rithm corresponding to the interval (in our case 4 hr, 30 min.) Add 
the two together The result is the logarithm of the motion of the 


planet during the interval. 


Thus, daily motion ofthe Sun = 


Logarithm for 58' 


ll 


0° 58' 27". 
1.3949 


Here we neglect 27" which is less than half min. of arc i.e. 
30” Had it been more than 30" it would be corrected to 1 


Logarithm for 4 hr. 30 min 
Adding 


= 0.7270 
1.3949 + 
0.7270 
2.1219 


Now the angular distance corresponding to a logarithm 2.1219 
is read from the table (called Antilogarithm). 
This is the motion in 4 hr. 30 min. 


Motion in 4 hr. 30 min. 


= 0° 11 


Using a calculator we would obtain 10' 58", while, using the 


A Course in Indian Astrology 275 
proportional logarithm we get 11', correct to the minutes only. 

A third less advantageous method would be to use your own 
elementary arithmetic to get the quantity. Thus you would divide 
the daily motion by 24 and obtain the motion per hour in minutes 
and seconds of arc. Then multiply this hourly motion by the inter- 
val in hours (4% hr= 9\2 hr). The result would be the same as the 
one obtained by using a calculator, but when you use a calculator, 
you get the result in a few seconds ! For accuracy calculator has to 
be used. But if you require only correct to the minute of arc you 
may use the proportional logarithm tables. 

So, the position of the Sun at 

530 a.m. on 23-04-89 = o' 9" 06' 30". 
Motion of sun in 4hr. 30 min. 

(ie. from 5.30 a.m. till the epoch, 

10 a.m.) = Of O° LO’ 58”, 
Add the two to get the exact 

position of the Sun at the time 

ofbirth, 10 a.m. on 23-04-89. 


Thus: Sun's longitude 7 0' 9° 06' 30" + 
(Sputa of Sun) O' 0" 10' 58" 
=. QR OT 17 28% 


This means that at the time of birth, ie. 10 a.m. on 23-04-89, 
the Sun was in Mesha sign at 9° 17' 28". 


Position of Moon: 


Now let us calculate the longitude of the Moon for our birth, 
ie. 10 a.m. on 23-04-89. This is done exactly as in the case of the 
Sun. But the daily motion of the Moon is much speedier than that 
of the Sun. Thus: 
Position of Moon at 5.30 
a.m. on 23-04-89 


= 6 29° 50' 26” | 
Position at 5.30 a.m. on 7 
24-04-89 a! T 12° o7' 33". 
Daily Motion ‘= op 12 07' 33"— 
6: 29° 50' 26” 


QO 12° 17° 17° 
[Note that 1s ~30° when you do the subtraction. 
If you have a scientific calculator you can use it j. 
Interval between the epoch (10 a.m.)= 10 00 — 
and 5 30 a.m. = 0530 


= 4 hr. 30 min. 


276 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Motion of Moon in 4hr. 30 min. = 12° 17°17" x4 hr.30min. 
e z == = 94 f . 
= 2 18' 12.56" 
Corrected to = . 2° 18'13" 
There fore Longitude of Moon* = 6* 29° 50' 267 + 
“0? 02° 18° 13” 


= 7* 02° 08°39" - 

This means that Moon is posited at 

.7 signs 02° 08' 39" form our 0 reference. 

Thus Moon is in the eigth sign from Mesha which is Vris- 
chika, and it has come upto 2° 08 39" in Vrischika. 

If you are using the proportional logarithm, you would get as 
follows. 

Daily Motion* = 12° 17" 7” = 

=  12°17' (Corrected to the 

pearest min.) 
4 hr. 30 min. 


Interval 
Logarithm of motion during 
the interval* = logarithm of 12 17'+ 
logarithm of 4 hr. 30 min. 
= Q.2909 + 
- 0.7270 
= 1.0179 


Therefore Motion during the interval = 2° 18'. This is the 
same as the value that we obtain using a calculator (2° 18' 13") 
corrected to the nearest minute. The rest is the same as described 
earlier. 

Position of Mars: Epoch 10 a.m. on 23-04-89 


Position at 5.30 a.m. on 23-04-89*= 2° 02° 28! 
Position at 5.30 a.m. on 24-04-89*= 2" 03° 05! 
Daily motion = 03° 05' — 
02° 28' 
00" 37' 
Interval from 5.30 a.m. = 10.00 — 05.30 
= 4hr. 30 min. 
Motion during interval - 00° 07' 
(using prop. log. tab) 
Longitude of Mars* = 2' 02° 28° + 
0? 00° 07' 
= 2° 02° 35. 


Position of Mercury: 
Position at 5.30 a.m. on 23-04-89 = 0 27° O9' 


A Course in Indian Astrology 277 


Position at 5.30 a.m. on 24-04-89 = QO: 28° 42' 
Daily motion = 28° 42' — 
27° 09' 
= 01° 33' 
Motion during Interval, (4hr. 30min.) = 00° 17 
Longitude of Mercury = Q? 27° O9' + 
oo’ 17° 
= Q* 27° 26' 


Similarly we get the position of Jupiter and Venus as given 
below, by the same method 
Jupiter 
Venus 


1' 14° 09' 
Os 14° 00'. 


oa 


Retrograde Motion: 


When we come to Saturn for this epoch we find a difference. 
So far ah the planets have been moving forward in time as shown 
by the increase in the longitude with time. But Saturn at this tune 
under consideration is moving in the reverse direction. Such re- 
verse motion of planets is known as retrograde mation or Vakra. It 
may be noted that the planet Saturn is not actually moving in the 
reverse direction but for a terrestrial observer Saturn would ap- 
pear to move in the reverse relative direction. Thus, in the case of 
retrograde planets, one has to subtract the proportionate motion 
during the interval, instead of adding it. Sun and Moon always move 
forward. Rahu and Kethu always move backward. For the planets 
Mars to Saturn (known as Thaaraagrahaas), at definite periods, 
there would be retrograde motion. Now let us calculate the longi- 
tude of Saturn and Rahu. 
Saturn : Position at 5.30 a.m. 


on 23-04-89 = & 20° 13' 
Position at 5.30 a.m. on 
24-04-89 = & 20" 13'. 


Evidently there is no change in position. It is static, apparent- 
ly. In the Ephemeris you would find that Saturn moves in the re- 
verse direction, visibly only on the 27th. Also it has started of Saturn 
= 8s 20" 13' (ie. 20° 13' in the 9th sign, Dhanus). We have to note 
that Saturn is retrograde a fact necessary in reading the results. 
This has to be indicated by letter (R) within brackets below the 
longitude when it is indicated in the chart. 

Rahu: Position at 5.30 a.m. 

on 23-04-89 = .10* 09 08 
Position at 5.30 a.m. 

on 24-04-89 e = 10* 09 Q5' 


278 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Daily Motion (R) = og” o3'— 
08" Q5' 
= 00° 03”. 
Motion during interval ; 
(4hr. 30min.) = 00° O1' 
Longitude at 10 a.m. : ; 
on 23-04-89 = - 10° 99° 93° — 
00° o1" 


= ~T0* 09° 07. 

Position of Kethu is not given in the. Ephemeris. It would be 
obtained by adding (or subtracting) six signs (180 ) from the longi- 
tude of Rahu. Hence Rahu's longitude being greater than 6 signs, 
the longitude of Kethu may be obtained by subtracting 6 signs. 


Longitude of Kethu =. 10° 09° 0O7'-- 
06" 00" 00' 
= 04° 09" 07' 


Ephemeris will give position of Uranus (Herschel), Neptune 
and Pluto also in addition to the 9 planets of Indian Astrology. Many 
persons take these planets also into consideration. These three plan- 
ets are some tunes called Indra, Varuna and Rudra respectively. 
For the,present let us consider only the 9 planets. 

Consolidating our calculations, we get the longitudes of the 
planets for our epoch, 10 a.m. IST on,23-04-89 as follows: 


Planet Longitude Longitude in . sign 

deg, min, sec. 
Sun O* 09° 17° 09" =17' Maesha 
Moon 7°02" Q9' 212° 09 Vrischika 
Mars 2" 02" 35' 62° 35' Mithuna 
Mercury 0" 27" 26' 27" 26' Maesha 
Jupiter 114" 09' 44" o9' Vrishabha 
Venus 0; 14" 00" 14” 00° Maesha 
Saturn & 20" 13° 260" 13' Dhunus 
Rahu 10°09" 7' 309° 7° Kumbha 
Kethu 4 a9" 7 129” 7° Simhu. 


We may tabulate these planetary positions in the usual 
conventional way, as given in the next page, not only indicating the 
sign alone but also the exact longitude (sphuta) of each planet in 
the respective sign. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 


10A.M on 
* 23-4-1089 


Stellar Position of Planets: 


Along with marking the planets in the signs we must also be 
able to find out on which star the planet is posited. This will help to 
pinpoint the prediction to certain events. You would remember that 
each successive. 18” 20' ofthe zodiac represents a star from Aswini 
to Revathi. (See Unit 4). From the positions of the planets we can 
easily find out, which star does the planet occupy. Usually the star 
in which Moon is posited is called the birth star. The stellar posi- 
tions of the planets in the above are given below. 


Planet Star Quarter 
Sun Aswini ee) 

Moon Visaakha 4 

Mars Mrigaseersha 3 
Mercury- Krithika 1 
Jupiter Rohini 2 
Venus Bharani 1 
Saturn Poorvashaadha 3 

Rahu Sathabhishak 


es 


Kethu Magha °3 


280 A Course in-Indian Astrology 


Longitude of the Ascendent 


UNIT 61 


Lagna-Sphuta: Sidereal Time 


So from what we learned in the last Unit, it is possible for us 
to find out the exact position of each planet in the zodiac, at any 
instant of time. Now, how to find out the exact longitude of the 
Lagna (Ascendent) ? You remember that in Unit 5, we learned the 
inethod of finding the rising sign (Lagna) at any instant of time by 
making use of the Raasiinaana at the place in question, provided 
we know the time of Sunrise (or Sunset for epochs after Sun-set). 
There we find a worked out example for a birth on 16 the of Thula, 
9.20 a.m. The Sun-rise was 6.18 am. Both the times were in IST. 
There we calculated the interval between the birth and Sun-rise, 
on the day. Then from this interval we went on subtracting the 
Raasimaanaas successively from the rising sign ouwards. Finally 
we reached a stage from which we could not subtract a particular 
Raasimaana. In the above example the interval was 3hr. 2min. Osec. 
from which we subtracted the Thula Raasimaana for that day, 
namely lhr. lmin. 36sec. The balance is 2hr. Omin. 24sec., form 
which we cannot subtract the next Raasiinaana (Vrischika) which 
is 2hr. 10inin. 24sec. Thus the Ascendent sign was found to be Vris- 
chika. The calculation can be extended to find out the exact longi- 
tude of the Lagna. In the Vrischika Lagna having a span of 2hr. 
10min 24sec (Raasimaana) 2Hr. Qinin. 24sec. has already risen. 
(This is the balance that we got). Hence the longitude of Ascendent 
(Lagua-Sphuta) is (2hr. Omin. 24s.) + (2hr. 10m. 24s.) of 30” (ie. 1 
sign). This will work out to 27" 41' 58" in the sign Vrischika. So the 
longitude of the Ascendent 7* 27" 41' 58”. If you use a scientific 
calculator this can be worked out directly in few seconds. If not one 
has to be careful about the units, it is better to convert both the 


A Course in Indian Astrology 281 
times into seconds. Thus (2hr. Omin. 24s.) + (2hr. 10min. 24s.) x 30 
- (7924 + 7824) x 30 . When you work out this you would get a 
fraction of a degree, which has to be converted into minutes and 
seconds of arc in the usual way. 

Raasimaanaas are to-be known for each location (place) and 
these are often given in Ghatis and vighatis instead of hour-min- 
utes and seconds. In that case convert the Raasimaana and the 
balance into vighatis (provided ofcourse you have taken the inter- 
val also in Ghatis and vighatis). 


Modern Method 


Since facilities and astrological tables are easily available now 
a days, it is advisable to use them to calculate the longitude ofthe 
Ascendent. Before we learn this method, it is necessary to know 
about the various methods of reckoning time, the standard time, 
the local meant time and the sidereal time. Let us familiarise with 
these without much theory. 


Local Mean Time (LMT): 


The local mean time or (LMT) for short would change from 
place to place because this is based on the position of the Sun in 
relation to that place. When the Sun is crossing the meridian at any 
place, it is midday, that is 12' O clock noon at that place. The time 
reckoned on this basis is the LMT. At this time the Sunmreaches the 
highest point in that place. When the Sun is at this highest point in 
one place, in another place where the terrestrial longitude 
(Rekhamsa) is different in would not be midday, ie. 12’ O clock. 
This is due to the rotation ofthe earth, essentially. So the LMT will 
be different at a particular instant in different places of different 
longitudes, Now for references Greenwich time is taken. When it is 
midnight at Greenwich, it will be 5.30 a.m. for us in India, and 
when it is mid-noon at Greenwich it would be 5.30 P.M in India. 
This is because we are away towards east of Greenwich. Geographi- 
cal angular distances are measured by the longitudes. Greenwich 
is assigned arbitrarily a longitude of 0" The Sun would rise in 
places towards the east. We calculate a day as the time between 
two consecutive Sun-rises. But iu different places the duration of 
day and night would not he equal, except on the equinoxes. 


Now, since the LMT would different from longitude to longi- 
tude, it is notconvenient for a vast country ofadopt LMT for proper 
tuning of events. So in each country a standard time is fixed for 
being used all over the country. 


282 A Course in Indian Astrology 

It is easy to know how much would be the difference in the 
LMT a( two places. On fiul rotation of the earth is 24 hours and it 
scans an angle of 360 . So in 24 hours the change of longitude is 360 
, Therefore for each degree change of longitude the change of time 
is 24 \ 360 hours = (24 x 360) \ 360 minutes = 4 minutes. Thus the 
longitudinal cliange in time is at the rate of 4 minutes per degree 
longitude This should be remembered very well. Thus when it is 11 
A.M. tLMT) at any place, the time would be 11.04 a.m. at a place 1 
longitude to the east ofthe first place, and it would be 10.56 a.m. at 
a place 1 longitude to the West ofthe first place. Suppose there are 
two places A and B. the longitudes are 76 E and 72 30'E respec- 
tively (E means East of Greenwich). Then; 


A B 0 
76" E 72" 30°E Greenwich 
East 


Suppose that it is 8 a.m. at A. What will be the time at B at 
this moment V B is situated 76° — 72" 30' - 03" 30' to the West of A. 
Since cach degree longitude corresponds to 4 minutes, time-differ- 
ence between A and B = 03" 30' x 4 minutes = 3 x(30\60) degree x 4 
minutes = 3% x 4=14 minutes. Since B is towards the West of A, 
the time at B when itis 8 a.m. at A, will be lessby 14 minutes. Thus 
at B the time would be only 8.00 — 0.14 = 07 hr. 46m. A.M. Remem- 
ber these: 
1.Longitudinaltime difference= 4 min per degree. 
2.Time at places relatively East will be greater than the time 
at places to the west at the same instant. 
EXERCISE: 1.Kumbakonamis at a longitude of 78° 40'E and Goa 
is at 73" 40' E. - 
a). When it is 12noon LMT at Goa, what is the LMT at Kumbakonam 
b). When it is 6.50 a.m. at Kunbakonam, what would be the LMT 
at Goa V 
c}. When it is 12 noon at Goa. what would be the LMT at Green- 
wich? 
d). When it is midnight at Greenwich. what would be LMT at 
Kumbakonam ? 
Moscow is at 37" 40'W and Paris at 02" 21’E longitude. 
a).When it. is 12 noon at Greenwich. 
b).What would be LMT at Moscow and Paris ? 
c).When it is 6 a.m. at Paris ? 
b). What would be the time at Moscow ? 
It is essential that you should calculate these yourself so that 
there would not be any confusion later. 


A Course in Indian Astrology . 283 
Indian Standard Time and Other Standard Times: 


As was stated earlier, it would be very difficult for us for tim- 
ing of events, if we use LMT. For instance ifa person at Calcutta 
promises to telephone you at Thiruvananthapuram at 8 a.m. ona 
particular day and wants you to wait for the call at the time. If 
yourself and your friend both use local times there would be the 
possibility of confusions. Calcutta is at 88° 30'E and Trivandrum is 
77" E.. So when it is 8 a.m L.M.T at Calcutta it woidd be only 7.14a.m 
in Trivandrum, So the friend would have telephoned at 8a.msharp. 
But you would not have been waiting at Trivandrum because it is 
only 7.14 a.m. Your friend would have tried and not finding anyone 
at this end would have been disappointed. You would be ready at 
the phone at 8 a.m., according to your LMT. Not receiving the phone 
call you would wait for some time cursing your friend. So it is advis- 
able to have a common time at least for a country as a whole. Each 
country has its own Standard Time, which is used throughout the 
country. In India the local time at 82" 30'E longitude hasbeen fixed 
as the common time officially and this is known‘as the Indian Stan- 
dard Time of IST for short. Remember this: IST = LMT at 82" 30'E. 


This standard time was fixed in India from 1906 onwards, 
but for the war period 1942 to 1945 when this time was made 1 hr. 
ahead. Today we use the IST everywhere, in order to avoid confu- 
sion. 

Standard time at various countries are compared to the same 
standard internationally. This has been fixed as the Greenwich mean 
time (GMT). Note that since the IST corresponds to 82" 30' E and 
Greenwich is at 0 longitude, the IST would be 82 % x 4 min. ahead 
(since 82 % E is towards the east of Greenwich). ie., 330 min. = 5hr. 
30min. ahead ofthe GMT. 

IST = GMT + 5 hr. 30 min. 


The Sidereal Time: 


For measuring any quantity we make use ofa ‘unit’, like the 
kilogram for measuring mass, the metre for length and the hke. 
For measuring time we also have units, Currently we make use of 
the ‘hour’ as unit of time. Having defined one unit in order to meas- 
ure any physical quantity we define subsidiary units which are ei- 
ther a multiple or a submultiple of the basic unit. The 'hour' is 1\24 
of a day. 

But what is a ‘day’ ? This is defined in various ways. Thus the 
‘Savana’ day is the time-between two successive sun-rises. This 


284 A Course in Indian Astrology 
changes slightly from day to day. We have, then, the mean solar 
day which is the average durationofall the daysinan year. Roughly 
a day is the time required by the earth for acomplete rotation about 
its own axis. But here there is a difficulty. We say that 24 hours are 
required for this rotation. However the earth is not only rotating 
but also revolving around the Sun. Due to this revolution, superim- 
posed on the rotation, the earth would have to rotate 361° instead 
of 360° to have the Sun in the same relative position as on the pre- 
vious day. On a relative basis the terrestrial observer finds that the 
Sun makes a relative motion ofabout 1 per day. This was led to the 
necessity of defining what is called a sidereal day, which may be 
taken as the time taken by the earth to rotate through 360°. This 
has been found to be almost 23 hours and 56 minutes and not 24 
hours. Note that during our 24 hour day the earth has to make an 
additional 1" rotation due to revolution about the Sun. And 1" cor- 
responds to a time difference of 4 minutes. This may be clarified by 
another experiment also. Suppose we see a distant star exactly in 
the mid-heaven at Sun-rise on a day. The same starwould be in the 
mid heavenon the next day 4 minutes earlier than Sunrise. This is 
because, the earth has rotated through 360° in 23 hour 56 minutes, 
the Sun would have moved through 1° during that day (of course 
relatively) and so Sunrise occurs in the same terrestrial spot only 
when the earth hascompleted 361" rotation. So for each solar ‘day' 
the earth makes on additional fractional rotation, so that during 
one year consisting of 365 4 times. Thus the 365 % days (solar year) 
is made up of 365 I Sidereal Days. Thus the sidereal day is related 
to the usual ‘day’ according to the above relation. And the differ- 
ence in the duration of the sidereal day and mean solar day makes 
it necessary to define the sidereal 'hour' etc. as distinct from what 
we call hour. The sidereal hour is 1\24 of the sidereal day. So we 
have two sets of time-solar and sidereal. 


1 Solar Day = 24 Hours. 
1 Sidereal Day = 23 Hours and 56 Minutes 4.091 Seconds 
(to be exact), 

These are solar hours, minutes and seconds. This means that 
if we define a 'Sidereal Hour' as 1\24 ofthe sidereal day it is evi- 
dent that 1 solar day = 24 sidereal hours 3 min. 56.5555 sec, 

Read through the above description again after some time, if 
you are confused. Astronomers have calculated the longitude ofthe 
rising sign (Lagna) at each sidereal time for each latitude. Let us 
not bother about the details of calculation. Such Tables are widely 
available as Table ofAscendents. A short form of this is given at the 


A Course in Indian Astrology 285 
end of Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris. 

In short, if we can find out the sidereal time corresponding to 
any moment, then we can directly obtain the longitude of the As- 
cendent, by making use of the Table ofAscendents. Fortunately, in 
all ephemeris and also in some recent Panchangas, Sidereal Times 
have been given-usually at noon or at 5,30 a.m. or at 5.30 p.m. of 
the standard time. 

Therefore, it is only necessary to know how to find out the 
Sidereal Time (ST) for a given moment. This should be learned very 
well, since the accurate casting of a horoscope depends upon this. 
You should have the following items ofinformation for finding the 
(sidereal tune) ST and subsequent calculation. 

1.The time of event in IST. 

2.The latitude and longitude of the place ofthe event. 

3.An Ephemeris. 

4.Table of Ascendents (or Table of Houses). 

A Scientific calculator would be extremely useful in these 
calculations 


Finding out Sidereal Time using 
Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris. 


In this Ephemeris ST for each day of the year at IST 12 noon 
is given for the standard longitude, 82° 30'E. 

For example let us find out the ST at 10 am. ISTon 23-04-89 
at Patna which is at longitude, 85" 08'E. 

On 23-04-89 Sidereal Time at noon, at 82" 30'E 

(as given in the Ephemeris) = 2 hr. 5 min, 8 sec. 

From this find out the ST at 12 noon at Patna. Patna lies at 
85 38'E. and the standard Indian longitude is 82" 30'E. Hence Patna 
is 2 38'E of the standard longitude. So in Patna the noon woidd 
occur earlier than the noon at 82° 30'. So in order to.get the ST at 
Patna noon we have to apply a correction to the ST at noon at 82" 
30". How much is this longitudinal correction ? Remembering that 
the ST is based on a distant fixed star and not based on the Sun. It 
is not difficult to understand that the longitudinal correction should 
be at the rate of 4 minutes per day, that is for a 360 rotation. Hence 
this correction is 4 min+ 360 per degree =* 240 sec + 360 

= » * 4 second perdegree 

This longitudinal correction is sometimes called» s 'Correc- 
tion the reason is quite obvious. 

Patna is 2" 38' to the East of 82" 30’. 
Hence longitudinal correction = 02" 38'x » 2 sec. per degree. 


286 Z Course in Indian Astrology 
[2° (38\60) x a3] sec. 

= 136 +180 -2sec. 

(corrected to the second). 

Since at Patna the noon would be earlier than at 82 30' it can 
be easily remembered that this correction has to be subtracted from 
the ST at 82° 30' E in order to get the ST at noon at patna. 

Note: Longitudinal correction at the rate of 2\3 sec. per de- 
gree longitudinal difference, must be subtracted for places to the 
East (and added for places to the West) of the standard longitude, 
in order to get the ST at noon for the place. 

Thus ST at local noon at Patna 
ie. at L2noon LMT at Patna = O02hr. 05min. 08sec — 
OOhr. OOmin. 02sec 
= 02hr. 05min. O6sec. 

Now, what we want is the ST at 10 am. IST on 2304-89. 
Since we are having the ST at 12 noon LMT, we have to find out 
the time in LMT corresponding to 10 am. IST. That is, finding out 
the solar time in LMT corresponding to 10 am. This being solar 
time and since 10 am. is the LMT at 82" 30' and since Patna is 2" 
38' East of this standard longitude we have to add a correction at 
the rate of 4 minutes per degree to get the local time at Patna at 
10am. IST., ie. add 2 38'x4 min. = 

[2 x 3.8 \ 60)1 x 4 
- ‘10min. 32sec. to 10 am. 


Thus LMT for Patna at 
‘IST 10am. = +* 1ST +IST Correction 
= 10br. OOmin. 00sec. + 
= OOhr. 1Omin. 32sec. 
1Ohr. lOmin. 32sec. 
At 12hr. OOmin. O0Osec. 


LMT, ST = O2hr: 05min. O6sec. 
At 1Ohr. 10min. 32sec. LMT, ST= ? 
This time to 10 hr. 1O min. 32 sec. 
LMT is 
( 1200 00-10 10 32) = Olhr. 49:min. 28 sec. 


behind the LMT noon. 

Call this LMT interval. But this is solar time. This has to be 
converted into sidereal units. Note that 

24 solar hours — 24 sidereal hours , 

3 sidereal minutes, 56:555 sidereal seconds. 

Which is nearly 24hr. 04min, Hence in order to get time in 
sidereal units we have to increase the solar time interval at the rate 
of Q4min. per 24 hours. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 287 


ie. (4 x 60) , 24 seconds per hour - 10 seconds per hour. 
Therefore LMT interval = 02hr. 05min. 06sec. (Solar). 
LMT correction = (02hr. OSmin. 06sec.) x 10 


seconds per hour 
21.seconds (corredcted 
to the second) 
02 05 06 + 
=e 00 00 21 
= 02 05 27 
(sidereal units). 
The sidereal times atthe desired time will be 2 hr. 5 min. 27 
sec. less than that at 12 noon LMT. 
ST desired* = O2hr. 05min. 06sec. — 
= O2hr. OSmin. 27sec. 
= 23hr. 59min. 39sec 
Let us now consolidate the procedure for obtaining the St at 
any place from the entries ofthe Ephemeris 
1.Note down the ST at noon at the standard longitude. Let 
this be called A. 
2.Find out the ST at the local noon, that is at 12 noon LMT. 
This is done by applying the longitudinal correction to A, at the 
rate of a second per degree longitude. Let this correction be called 
L, L is to be added if the place is to the West ofthe Standard longi- 
tude and subtracted if it is to the East of the standard longitude. 
We get A +L as the ST as local noon. 
3.Find out the LMT corresponding to the time in question. 
This is done by applying correction to the IST at the rate of 4 min- 
utes per degree longitudinal difference. Call this correction x and 
the time in IST, the x is to be added if the place is to the East of the 
standard longitude and subtracted if it is the West ofit. We get the 
LMT =t+x. 
4, Find out the interval's between noon and LMT in solar time. 
ls= LMT - 12hr. OOmin. OOsec. 
5.Convert this interval 1s into sidereal hours, minutes and 
seconds by applying the interval correction at the rate of 10 seconds 
per hour (which is equivalent to 1 secondfor every 6 minutes). Then 
we obtainthe corrected interval. 1 = 1s+ correction at the rateof 10 
seconds per hour, 
6.Finally, add 1 the corrected interval to the ST at local noon 
A+L, ifthe time t + x is after the noon and subtract 1 froomA+Lif 
the LMT =t +x is before noon, The result is the required sidereal 
time. 


therefore LMT interval* 


288 A Course in Indian Astrology 
ST = (ST from ephemeris + longitudinal correction) + Cor- 
reeted Interval. 
Example: 
Birth time: 03.15 p.m. on 01-03-1989 CST). 
Place: Jaffna (Sri Lanka) 
Latitude: 09° 40'N. 
Longitude: 80° E 
1. From ephemeris, ST at noon at 
82 30 on 1-3-89. 
2. Longitudinal difference 


22h 36m 10s. 

(82° 30 — 80°) 

2 30' to the west of standard 
longitude. ; 

2° 30/60 x 2/3 sec. 

2” x 30/60 2/3sec. 

1 2/3 sec = 2 sec. 

Since the place is to the west of the standard longitude this is to 
be added to the ST. 
3. ST at local noon 


Longitudinal correction 


22h 36in 10s + 
-0 0 2 
22h 36m 12s. 
.3.15pin. 
15h 15m Os. 
IST + Correction at the rate 
. of 4m per degree. 
2” 30'x 4m 
2” 30/60 x 4=10m. 
As the place is to the west of the standard longitude this has to be 
subtracted from the IST. 
LMT 


4. Birth time in IST 


yuu 


LMT at birth 


correction 


Woy 


15h 15m Os — 
Oh 10in Os 

15h 5m Os 
; .15h 5in Os — 

(solar) 12h Om Os 
3h 5m Os 
3h 5m Os + correction 
at 10s per hour 
3h 5in Os + 
0 O 31 


3h 5mm 31s 
This has to be added since the LMT at birth 


is after the noon. 


Nig 


5, Interval | 


Corrected interval 


It 


A Course in Indian Astrology 
6, ST at birth 


22h 36m 12s + 
: 3h 5m 31s 
; = 25h 41m 43s 
Note that 24h Om Qs in the same as Oh Om Os. 
Hence from the above ST subtract 24 
to get the final value of st at birth. 
ST ag = 25h 41m 43s - 
24h Om Os 
= Ih 41m 43s. 
Example : Birth Time :- 11h 18m PM on 7-9-89 
Place : - Porbandar (longitude 69 37 E) 


289 


ST. at noon at 82° 30 E . £ 11lh5m 16s (from Ephemeris) 
Longitudinal difference = §82°.30- 
, 69°.37 othe 

= _ 12°.53 to the west 

peneruding) correction = 12” 53 x 2/3 sec per degree 
= 9s ; 
Being to the west this has to be added. 
ST at local noon . = 11h5m 16s+ 
: “0 0 9 


11h 5m 25s 
Birth time in IST. 11h 18m 0s PM 
23h 18m Os 


LMT correction 


51m 32s 

The place is.to the west and hence 

this is to be subtracted from IST to get the LMT 
LMT = 23h 18m 0s — 


Oh 5im 32s 


22h 16m 28s 
22h 16m 28s - 
' 12h 
-~T0h 16m 28s 


Interval 


Mou 


{nterval correction 


10h 16m 28s + 
O-1- 43 
10h 18m lis 
11h 5m 25s + 
10h 18in 11s 
21h 23m 36s 


corrected Interval 


Therefore required ST 


12°53’ 4 min per degree 


(10h 16m 28s) 10s per — 
103sec = Im 43s 


290 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Example: 7-35 AM on 19-9-89 at 

Bhubaneswar (Lengitude 85" 50" E) 

ST at noon at 82 30 on19-9-89 (from ephemeris)” 


= 1152 34 ~ 
Subtract Longitudinal correction = Oo 0 2 
ST at local noon = 115232 _ 
Add LMT correction to 1ST = 7° 38- O+ 
at 4 min per degrees = 13 20 
= - 7 4820 
’ LMT interval = 12 0 O- 
7 4820 
= “FITAT— 
LMT correction at 10sec per deers = = 0 042 


Corrected LMT 4-12-22 


Subtract corrected LMT: = 11-52-32 —- 
from ST at Local noon = 4 1223 
Required ST = 7-40-10 


(Finding the Sidereal time using an Ephemeris which gives 
the Sidereal time at different longitudes is also exactly similar and 
if you follow the above example, it would not be difficult for you to 
use any ephemeris. Some ephemeris give the ST at 5 30 AM. IST 
instead of noon. Then also the procedure is similar, but find out 
first the ST at 5.30 AM. LMT by the longitudinal correction, Also 
when you take the interval, it has to he taken as the difference 
between the LMT at birth,and 5.30 AM. LMT. The rest ofthe proce- 
dure is same). 

Exercises: 

Find out the sidereal tunes for the following epochs: 

14 AM. IST at Lahore (74" 18'Elongitude) on 01-01-1989. 

2.4 AM. IST at Agartala (91" 17’E longitude) on 01-01-1989, 

3,Moscow Standard tune is 3 hr, faster than the Greenwich 
Mean Tune (GMT). Longitude of Moscow is 37" 34°E. For a birth at 
Moscow, at 4 PM., Moscow standard time, on 01-01-1989, 

a). Find out the time in IST ? 

‘.. b). Find out the ST 7 

4.Express in IST: 

a). 4AM. LMT at Lahore (74" 18'E). 

b). 4 AM. LMT at Agartala (91° 17'E). 

5. Express in GMT: 

a). 4AM. LMT at Lahore 

b) 4 AM. at Agartala 

c). 4AM. IST 


A Course in Indian Astrology 291 
For the above problems, take the sidereal time at 12 Noon at 
82° 30° as 18hr. 43:min. 33 sec. 


Longitude of the Ascendant 
(Continued) 


UNIT - 62 


Now we have learned how to obtain the sidereal time corre- 
sponding to any time at any place. Having learned this, finding out. 
the longitude of the Ascendent is very sunple, because, these have 
been calculated by Astronomers and have been tabulated in what 
are called 'Table of Ascendents’ about which reference has already 
been made. A short form of this table appears at the end of the 
Indian Ephemeris but a more accurate and completed table is avail 
able: 

'‘Lahiris Table of Ascendents' (published by M/s Astro-Research 
Bureau; 17, Briudaban Mullik 1st Lane; Calcutta - 700 009,) This 
table gives the Nirayana longitude and hence there is no necessity 
to subtract Ayanaimsa), 

In this table, the longitude of the Ascendant is given for vari- 
ous sidereal times at 04 ulin. interval at each degree North Lati- 
tude from 00" tO 60° N. The method to calculate the Ascendent in 
places in the Southern hemisphere also is given. 

Since the longitudes are given only for every 04 min. time 
interval, for the intermediate times we have to calculate the longi- 
tude using the method of proportions. 

Also the tables are given only for each degree latitude and for 
fractional latitudeswe have to Calcutta by taking proportional parts. 

Let us now familiarise with the method of calculation for a 
definite birth. 

Birth: 02.50 PM. IST at Calicut on 10-01-1989. 

Latitude: 11" 14'N. 
Longitude: 75" 49' E. 

Step 1- Find out the sidereal time at birth. 

Step I— Find out longitude of Ascendent, for this ST at 11° N 
latitude. Let this be 'A‘. 

Step I11-Find out longitude of Ascendant for the ST at 12 N 
longitude. Let this be 'B'. 


292 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Step IV~Using A and B, the Ascendents at 11° and 12" N, 

Calculate by proportional parts, the exact longitude at 11” 15' N 

latitude. 

Step I : To find the Sidereal Time (See previous unit). 

ST at noon (82° 30') from 

Ephemeris: 

Longitudinal correction = 


lI 


19hr. 19min. 02sec 


|(82° 30° —75° 49*) x eu 
sec per degree] + 
OOhr. OOmin. 04sec LMT 
14hr. 50min. OOsec. — 
(OOhr. 26n1in. 44sec 
13 hr. 23 min. 16sec. 


ll 


rt 


LMT interval = (13 23 16) — 
{1200 00)* 
= 0123 16+ 
= 0000 14 
ST = 20 42 36. 


Step II : Finding the Ascendent at 11" N latitude from Lahiri 
Table of Ascendents. 

The Table of Ascendants is so arranged that on each page the 
longitude of Ascendent is tabulated for 24 hours at 4 minute inter- 
val. 

e.g.: OOhr. 04min., OOhr, 0O8min., OOhr. 12min, etc., upto 23hr, 
60min.(24hr). 

For us the ST is 20 hr. 42 min. 36 sec. 

On the page for 11" N latitude, we have the longitude for 
Ascendent only for 20 hr. 40 min and 20 hr. 44 min. This interval 
includes our S.T. (20hrs 42m 36 sec So we have to calculate the Asc 
for 24hr,42in 36 sec. by taking proportionate parts, as given below: 


At 11" N, ST Long Of Asc 
20hr. 40min. O* 22" 47' 
20hr. 44min. 0’ 23" §1' 
Therefore 4m. interval. 
change in Ascendent = 23" 51'— 
22" 47! 
= 01" 04’. 


Correction per minute = 01" 04' + 4per minute. 


From the moment 20hr. 40min. our required ST is 


A Coursein Indian Astrology 293 
(20hr. 42min. 36sec. — 
20hr. 40min.) 
02min. 36sec. greater. 


Correction required =(_ 01" 04' .) x 02min. 36sec. 

4m 

, = TOr 16'x 2 (36\60) 
00° 41' 36” 
Therefore Ascendent for 
the ST a 0? 22" 47' 00" + 
= 0° 00" 41' 36" 
QO? 23 28' 36”. 


But the table of Ascendents is tabulated on the Nirayana Sys- 
tem, by subtracting an Ayanaamsa of 23" only. However, the 
Ayanaamsa on our date under consideration is not. 23". This can be 
obtained accurately from the current Ephemeris for the year (1989). 
On 10-01-1989 + a correction for the exact date. This correction is 
obtained from the Ayanaamsa for Ist February and then taking 
proportional parts for 10th as foUows. 


Ayanaamsa on 01-01-89 = 23" 42° 19" 
Ayanaamsa on 01-02-89 =  , 23" 42'25" 
Difference for 31 days = + 06" 


Therfore Correction to be added to the 
Ayanaamsa on 01-01-1989 in order to get the 
Ayanaamsa on 10-01-89 = difference for 9 days. 
(OG' x 09) \31= 02" 
(Carrecteéd to sec.) 
Therefore Ayanaamsa on 10-01-1989= 23" 42' 19" + 
00 00° 02" 
= 23 42° 21" 
So from the calculated value of the Ascendent for 11" N we 
must subtract 42°21' 
(because the table gives values obtained by 
subtractions of only 23° instead of 23" 42' 21"). 
Correct Ascendent = Os 23 28' 36" — 
00 42' 21" 
= Os 22 46' 15" 
Step II: Finding the Ascendent at 12" N. 
By the same procedure as in Step II, but from the Values for 
12° N latitude. 
Ascendant at 20hr. 40min. ST= 0" 23" 07' 
Ascendent at 20hr. 44min. ST*= = 0" 24" 11' 
Increase for 04min. = 01" 04' 


294 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Increase per minute *=' 01" 04'+ 04min.* 
= 00" 16’ per inin. 
The required ST is 20 hr. 42 min. 36 sec. 
which is 02 min. 36 sec. higher than 20 hr. 40 min. 
Increase of Ascendent for 


2mm. 36sec. ={01" 04' =04min.) x 02min. 36sec 
00 41’ 36" 
Ascendent for 20hr. 42min. 36sec.= 0* 23 07' + 
0; 41' 36" 


O* 23 48' 36" 
Here also the Ayanaamsa correction of 42" 21" must be sub- 
tracted to get'the correct Ascendent. 
Correct Ascendant at 
12" N at the required ST* - QO 23 48' 36” — 
00 42' 21” 
= O* 23 06' 15" 
Stetp IV; Finding the correct Ascendent at 12 15' N latitude 
from the values at 11 N and 12 N. 


Ascendent at 11 N* ' *= O° 22 46' 15" (Step II) 
Ascendent at 12 N* -  * 23 06' 15" (Step IT) 
Difference for 01" latitude* = 22" O6' 15" — 

“ - 22° 46' 15" 

si - 00” 20' 00” 


We have to find out the Ascendent 
at 11" 15°Nat 11" N Ascendent = 0? 22" 46' 15" 
and the increase per degree (ie. 60') is 20'. 
Therefore Correction per (11" 15' - 11) thatis for 15' 
- (00° 20' 00" + O1)x OG 15' 
(20' 00" + 60) x 15=05' 00". 


Therefore Ascendent* = Q? 22" 46° 15" + 
00" 05' 00"' 
- @ 22" 51' 15" 


Thus the Ascendent is at 22" 51’ 15" in the first sign Maesha. 

Note 1:In Lahiri's Table of Ascendents, an Ayanaamsa cor- 
rection chartis given for calculating the Ascendent. This is not very 
accurate and for very accurate calculation, the method described 
above must be used. 

Note 2:There are other Tables of Ascendents which give the 
Sayana positions. lfthese are used one has to calculate the Sayana 
Ascendent using the tables for the required ST and latitude, and 
then the exact Ayanaamsa for the day has to be subtracted. 

Note 3:Certain Ephemeris give the Sayana positions of plan- 


A Course in Indian Astrology 295 
ets When these are used, first we calculate the Sayana longitudes 
of planets and then subtract the Ayanaamsa to get the Nirayana 
positions. 

Note 4: Now you should have an Ephemeris and also a Table 
of Ascendents. A scientific calculator would be advantageous for 
saving a lot of time. Even an ordinary calculator would do, if you 
don't have a scientific calculator. Without this, you would have to 
spend a lot of time in order to calculate the various longitudes 

Note 5:Learn the method of calculation and then do it your- 
self without referring to the calculation described above and see 
that you are getting the answer. 

Exercise: 

February 8th, 1989, 07:15PM. IST at Kohima, 25" 4\’N lati- 
tude and 94" 07°E Longitude. Calculate the longitude of the Ascend- 
ent for the above time using Lahiri's Table of Ascendents. 

Data:l. ST at noon as 08-02-89, 21 hr. 13 min 22 sec,,at 82 
30'E 

2. Ayanaamsa On 01-02-89=23" 42' 25" 

Ayanaamsa on (@1-03-89*=23" 42' 28" 

(Note that February has only 28 days). 

3. ST *Ase for 25° N Asc. for 26" N 

.O5hy. 16min.4* 27" 02' 4s 27" 07' 

O4hr. 20min.4* 27° 56' 4° 28" O1' 

(These are Nirayana positions obtained by subtracting only 
23" for Ayanaamsa. Hence Ayanaamsa Correction that is the excess 
by which the actual Ayanaamsa exceeds 23 is to be subtracted from 
the Ascendent for 25" N and 26" N. No such correction need be done 
in the last step). 


296 A Course in Indian Astrology 


The Sixteen Vargaas of 
Planets and Houses 
(Shodasavarga) 


UNIT 63 


The exact position of a planet or of a house in a sign necessi- 
tates the investigation of the difference in the effects of each in 
each point in each sign. For instance, a planet posited at 5 in Mesha 
and at 15" in Mesha should show different effects because in the 
first case the planet is in the first 13" 20' that is under the star 
Aswini ruled by Kethu, while in the 2nd case it is in the second 13" 
20' section of Mesha and is under the star Bharani ruled by Venus. 
So in the two cases though both are under the same sign the stellar 
positions are different. 

Is it not a well-known experience that no two persons - in- 
cluding twins are- identical ? So also no two horoscopes are found 
to be identical in all respects, though they may be similar ones. For 
those born nearly at the saine time and nearly the same places, the 
planetary positions would be extremely similar and if you have the 
chart showing the positions in the signs they inay look to be identi- 
cal. But by detailed casting of exact longitudes, subtle differences 
would become evident. And these are very important. 

Hindu Astrology provides us with a very peculiar system of 
identifving these subtle differences between the various points in 
each sign. And these are the divisional distribution in each sign. 
Each subdivision ofthe sign is assigned to each planet according to 
well defined rules. For instance each sign is divided into 2% divi- 
sions by the constellations (stars). For example the first 13" 20' of 
Mesha is ruled by Kethu (Aswini) and the next 13" 20' (that is 13" 
20° to 26" 40' in Mesha) is ruled bv Venus and the rest of Mesha (03" 


A Course in Indian Astrology 297 
20') is the first quarter of the region ruled by Sun. This is. familiar 
to us. But there are many other methods of subdivisions based on 
the positions of the planets in the zodiac. These are called the 
Vargaas or divisions. Many use six divisional methods (Shadvarga), 
some seven methods {Saptha varga), same use ten methods 
(Dasavargga) and very few Astrologers find time to use 16 methods 
(Shodasa varga). Let us now consider these 16 fold sub-divisional 
approach to planetary distribution. 


1. Kshethra or Sign: 


This is the same as the division of the whole zodiac into 12 
parts each one called a sign. Each sign is assigned to a planet. This 
is familiar to us. Mesha (0 to 30) is ruled by Mars, Vrishabha {30” to 
60") is ruled by Venus and so on. So this Varga considers each 30" 
portion to be ruled by a planet. 


2. Hoara: 


This is dividing each sign into two equal parts of 15” each. 
The rulership of the two Hoaras of each sign are given only to two 
planets Sun and Moon. This is the rule: Tn odd signs the first Hoara 
is ruled by the Sun and the second by the Moon, in even signs the 
other is reversed, namely the first Hora is ruled by the Moon and 
the second by Sun’. 

This rule is summarised in the dictum from Bruhajjaathakain 
of Varaahamihira. 

Maarthsaandaenduoar-ayuji-Samabhae Chandra 

bhaanvoscha _ hearae'. 

¢You will remember that Mesha is odd (1st sign), Vrishabha is 
even (2nd sign) and so on all alternate signs from Mesha are odd 
(also called male signs, ‘Vishama’ signs and cruel signs) while all 
alternative signs from, Vrishabha are (also called female signs, ‘sama’ 
signs and mild or Sowmya signs). 

Example: Assign the.Hoaras to the following planets: 


Planet Longitude 
Sun ue" -4' 03" 21' 
Moon 8 15" 10°15" 
Mars 5*15" 08' 07" 
Mandi ' 9°29" 08' 10° 


Ans: This is quite easy, What you have to do is only to decide 
whether the planet is in an odd sign or an even sign. If it is ii an 
odd sign then ifit is within the first 1"5 of the sign it is in the Hoara 
of Sun and if in the latter half (i.e... 15" to 30‘) it is in the Hoare of 


298 A Course in Indian Astrology 
Moon. In the even sign‘the ridership is reversed. So tnke Sun in the 
above set. Et is in the fifth sign. So it is in odd sign. Since it has 
traversed only 03" 21' in the sign Moon is in Moon's Hoara. Take 
Mars. It is in the Gth sign which is an even sign, in the second half. 
li even signs the first Hoara is ofthe Moon and the second is of the 
Sun. So Mars is in the Sun's Hoara. Mandi also is in the second half 
of an evel sign aud hence is in Sun's Efoara. 


UNIT - 64 


3. Drackkaana orDraeshkkaana (Decante): 


This division is ii portions of 10". That isa Draekkana is one 
third ofa sign. So there would be three Vruekkanas in each sign. 
These regions are ruled as follows: 

In anv sign the lord of the first Draekkaana is the lord of the 
sign itself. the lord ofthe second Drackkana is the lord of the fifth 
sign from the sign in question and the third Draekkana lord is the 
lord of the 9th sign counted from the sign. 

(For any sign the three Draekkauaasare ruled by the lords of 
the three ‘trines’ 1, 5 and 9 respectively). 

Example: The Ascendant is at 2°22" 05' in a horoscope. Who 
are the sign, Hoara and Draekkana lords of the Ascendant. 

It is mi the 3rd sign (Mithuna) ruled by Mercury Being an odd 
sign and in the. second halfit is in Moon's Hoara. 

Coming to Draekkaana, it. is in the third Draekkaana of Mit- 
huna. Hence the lord of the 3rd Draekkaana is the lord of the 9th 
sign counted from Mithuna. Kumbha is the 9th to Mithuna. So the 
lord of Draekkaana of the Ascendant is Saturn (lord of Kumbha). 


4, Chathurthaamsa or Thuryaamsa (quarter): 


This is one fourth ofa sign divided equally. So each sign has 
four Chathurthaamsas. The first one ofa sign is ruled by the lord of 
the sign, the second division is ruled by the lord ofthe 4th sign from 
it, the 3rd division by the lord of the 7th sign and the last division 
by the lord ofthe 10th sign. (Note the rule, the 4 divisions are ruled 
by the lords of the 4 successive quadrants to the sign). 

Each division (Chathurthaamsa) is thus (30 + 4) = 07" 30' in 
extent, 1).00° to 07" 30', If).07° 30° to 15" , TID).15° to 22” 30’, 
1V).22" 30' to 30. 

Example: Mercury - 8' 21°02' 23". Mercury is posited in the 
9th sign (Dhanus). In this sign it is at 21°92' 23” whichis within 15 


A Course in Indian Astrology 299 
to 22" 30', ie.. inthe 3rd Chathurthaamsa. Hence it is controlled by 
the lord of the 7th sign from Dhanus, which is Mithiuna. The lord is 
Mercury, Hence Mercury 15 posited in the Chathurthaamsa ruled 
by Mercury itself. 


5. Sapthaamsa: 


This is 1\7 of a sign. Thus each sign is divided into seven 
equal parts and hence it is called a Sapthaamsa. Each Sapthaamsa 
is thus (80 - 07) = 04" 17" x 8 (04" + 07). The rulership of each 
Sapthaamsa in a sign is governed by the following rule. 

In odd signs the Sapthaainsaas are ruled by the lards of the 
sign itselfand the next 6 signs in succession. In even signs the first 
Sapthaamsa is governed by the lord of the 7th sign from that even 
sign. The remaining ones are ruled by the 8th & 9th etc. in succes- 
S011. 

The last (seventh > Sapthamsa in even signs is evidently ruled 
by the lord of the sign. The first one of an odd sign also is ruled by 
the lord of the sign itself. 

The angular extents of the 7 Sapthamsaas in a sign are as 
follows 1,90" to 04" 1 7 1-7° 

2.04" 17 v7" to OB 34 av 

3.08" 34 27' to 12° 51a: 

4.12" 51s’ to 17° OBarr: - 

5.17" OBani' to 21” 25 st 

6.21" 25 s7' to 25” 4267- 

7.25° 4267 ' to 30° 00. 


Example: 
Sun 10' 02 01° 00" 
Moon 9° 18 10°00" 
Rahu O0* 25 41' 07" 
Planet Sign Odd/Even Which Lord of 
division Sapthaamsa 
Sun Kumbha Odd 1st Saturn 
Moon Makara even Sth Mars 
Rahu Maesha odd 6th Mercury 


6. Navaamsa 


This is the most important of the Vargaas, in the sense that it 
is the most widely used. The Navaamsa is 1\9 ofa sign and as each 
sign is divided into 9 Navaamsaas Therefore one Navaamsa is = 


300 A Course in Indian Astrology 
30\9 = 03" 20'. Thus one Navaamsa is exactly 1\4 ofa star, that is 
one.Paada or quarter of an asterism. 

There would be thus 12 x 09 = 108 Navaamsas over the entire 
360 ofthe zodiac. These 108 Navaamsaas are continuously assigned 
to each sign lord of Maesha (Mars). the 2nd Navaamsa by the lord 
ofthe next sign Vrishabha (Venus). The 3rd by lord of the 3rd sign 
Mithuna (Mercury) and so on. So the last (9th) Navaamsa of Maesha 
is governed by the lord ofthe 9th sign Dhanus (Jupiter). Continuing 
this the lst Navaamsa of Vrishabha is ruled by the lord of Makara 
(Saturn) and so on it goes continuously. 

There are several ways to remember the assignment of lord- 
ship of Navaamsaas in any sign. You can choose according to your 
liking. 

a).In Maesha, Simha and Dhanuscount from the sign Maesha; 
the lord of the sign reached by counting a number equal to the 
number of Navaamsa would be the lord. 

For the Vrishabha, Kanya and Makara signs count from 
Makara. 

For thetrine Mithuna, Thula and Kumbha count from Thula. 

And for the Kataka, Vrischika and Meena count from Kataka. 

b). Note That for each set ofthree the counting of lordship is 
from the movable Sigmofthe trine. This is true for any sign. A trine 
for any sign is the set ofthree signs including the sign, its 5th and 
9th. One ofthese would be a movable sign, one a fixed one and the 
3rd a dual (common) sign For all the 3 signs ofany trine, counting 
is done from the movable sign of the trine. 

c). The Navaamsa sign and hence the lord can be calculated 
by multiplication of the longitude by 9, the sign in which this re- 
sulting product falls would be the Navaamsa sign and the lord of 
that sign is the Navaaamsa-Lord, 

Examples: Sun - 1721" 04' 18". 

a). The sign is Vrishabha, 21" 04' 18" in Vrishabha. Each 
Navaamsa being 03" 20', 21" 04' 18" is in the 7th Navaamsa. (Note 
that 3 Navaamsaas make 10 . Remember this for quick reading of 
Navaamsaas). For Vrishabha counting is from Makara. So count 
the 7th from Makara. This is Kataka Thus the Navaamsa of Sun 
falls in Kataka and the Navaamsa lord is Moon. 

b). The result can be obtained also by the second method. Sun 
is in Vrishabha. Take the Sth and 9th from Vrishabha namely Kan- 
ya and Makara. Ofthis trine the movable sign is Makara. So count 
7th from Makara, we get Kataka. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 301 
c). 1/21 04' 18" x9 
=! 15-" 90 38° 42" 
3' 09 38° 42”. 

Note that this falls in the sign Kataka. So any one of the 3 
methods can be adopted. 

Example: Mercury at 11* 17" 21’. 

The sign is Meena (of the trine Kataka, Vrischika, Meena). 
So count Navaamsa from the movable sign ofthese Kataka. Since it 
is 17°21' it is the 6th Navaamsa. (Note 10 three Navamsaas). Hence 
the sign is the 6th from Kataka namely Dhanus. Navaamsa-lord is 
Jupiter. 

We. say that Mercury is posited in Meena sign and in Jupi- 
ter's (Dhanu) Navaamsa, It is evident that there is strong relation 
between Mercury and Jupiter in the horoscope since the sign lord 
as well as Navaamsa lord of Mercury happen to be Jupiter. 


UNIT - 65 


Other Features of Navaamsa 


Since one Navaamsa is a quarter (Paada) ofa star, we can 
decide at a glance in which star is the planet posited. In the above 
case of Mercury, it is in the 6th Navaamsa, that is 6th Paada in 
Meena. Meena contains the 4th Paada of Poorva Proshtapada, fol- 
lowed by the 1 to 4 Padaas of Utharaproashtapada and the 1 to 4 
Paadaas of Revathi. Clearly the sixth Paada in Meena is the lst 
Paada of Revathi. So Mercury is posited in the asterisin ruled by 
Mercury itself. 

The Navaamsaas ofeach planet and the Ascendant are shown 
in the birth chart itselfthe Navaamsa positions being indicated just 
outside the respective sign in the birth chart. Sometimes the 
Navaamsa chart in shown separately. These are always shown in 
any birth chart in South India. 

For predictive purpose and in horary astrology (Brasna} 
Navaamsas are ofextreme importance. The Navaamsa chart #8 said 
to disclose quite a lot about one’s life, especiallv relating to married 
life. 

Let us consider a typical South Indian horoscope (given iu 
the next page. 


ogy 


In this the Navaamsa signs of the planets are indicated out- 
side the respective sign, for instance the Ascendant is in Thula sign 
and the Navaamsa falls in the Meena sign. This means that the 
longitude ofthe Ascendant is inthe 6th Navaamsa (i.e.. between 16 
40' and 20 in Thula), because for Thula sign Navaamsaas are counted 
from Thula, and the Ascendant is indicated in Meena outside the 
chart So the Navaamsa is the sixth one since Meena is the 6th 
from Thila 

This implies that the Asterism in which the Ascendant falls 
in Swanthi (4th Paada) because the sign Thula includes Chithra 
(Paadaas 3 and 4), Swanthi (Paadaas | to 4) and Paadaas 1 to 3 of 
Visaakha. So the Ascendant is in Swaathi and hence the star lord of 
the Ascendant is Rahu. 

Next take the case of Sum It is posited in Makara and the 
Navaamsa is Kumbha. For Makara Nayaamsa are counted from 
Makara itself aul hence Sun is inthe second Navaamsa of Makara. 
The asterisin is therefore the 3rd Paada of Utharaashadha. (See 


A Course in In dia n Astrology 303 
unit 4 for the distribution ofasterisms among the signs). So for the 
Sun the sign lord is Saturn. Navaamsa-lord is Saturn and the star 
lord is Sun itself. All these facts should come to your mind as soon 
as you see the chart. o 

Take the positions of Moon in the horoscope. It is posited in 
Maesha. (ln Maesha Navaamsaas are counted from Maesha itself). 
The Navaamsa position for Moon is shown in Vrischika which is 
the 8th sign form Maesha. Hence Moon is in the 8th Navaamsa, or 
Maesha which is easily found to be the 4th Paada of Bharani. 

In the same way Mars posited in Maesha is easily found to be 
in the 9th Navaamsa, that is in the first Paada of Krithika. 

Take the case of Mercury. It is posited in Dhanus and the 
Navaamsa is indicated in Kanya. Note that for Dhanu, Navaamsa 
is to be counted from Maesha. Hence, as Kanya is the 6th sign from 
Maesha we can see that Mercury is posited in the 6th Navaamsa 
(i.e.. Nakshatra-Paada) of Dhanus. Dhanus includes Moo la (Paadaas 
1 to 4), Poorvaashaadha (Paadaas 1 to 4) and Utharaashaadha (first 
Paada). Hence Mercury is posited between 16" 40' and 20° in Dha- 
nus, in the asterism Poorvashaadha (second paada). 

Jupiter is posited in Vrischika andin Navaamsa it is in Simha. 
For Vrischika, Navaamsas are counted from Kataka and hence 
Jupiter is in the second Navaamsa of Vrischika since Simha is the 
second sign from Kataka. So Jupiter is posited in Vrischika, in the 
lst Paada of Anuraadha. (Vrischika includes the 4th Paada of 
Visaakha, Anuraadha all the 4 Paadaas and Jyeshta all 4 Paadaas). 

Now by similar reasoning you will find out the Nakshathra- 
paada in which eachof the planets is posited in the above chart. See 
whether you are getting the following answers. 


Planet Sign Navaamsa Navaamsa Star (Paada) 
sig number 
Sun Makara. Kumbha 2nd Uthraa 
shaadha (3) 
Moon Maesha Vrischika 8th Bharani (4) 
Mars Maesha Dhanu 9th Karthika (1) 
Mercury Dhanu Kanya 6th Poorvaa 
shaadha (2) 
Jupiter Vrischika Simha 2nd Anuraadha (1) 
Venus Makara Kataka 7th Sravana (4) 
Saturn Dhanus Mithuna 3rd Moola (3) 
Reahu Kanya Simha *S8th Chithra(l) 
Kethu Meena Kumbha Sth Revathit3) 
Mandi Kanya Mukara Ist Uthra (2) 


Ascendant Thula Meena 6th Swaathi (4) 


304 A Course in IndianAstralogy 

Essential Exercises: 

a) In a horoscope the Moon in shown in Mithuna and in 
Navaamsa Moon is shown in Simha. The asterism is written as 
Punarvasu. Find out the error in this horoscope and correct it. 

b). In a horoscope the star is not written. But the Moon is 
shown in the sign Kumbha and in Navaamsa also it is shown in 
Kumbha. Find out the star. 


Vargothama 


UNIT- 66 


This is a special situation which according to authorities repre- 
sents a favourable position. A planet or the Ascendant is said to be 
in Vargothama, when the occupation sign and the Navaamsa sign 
of the planet or Ascendant are the same. For instance Moon, pos- 
ited in Vrischika in the Sth Navaamsa, that is between 13 20' and 
16 40" is said to be in Vargothama Navaamsa. For Vrischika, 
Navaamsaas are counted from Kataka and counting the Navaamsa 
from kataka for the Moon the Sth is Vrischika itself. So in Rasi and 
in Navaamsa Moon is in the same sign. ActuaRy Moon is in Vris- 
chika its debilitation sign. Still due to Vargothima Moon has special 
strength. The Vargothama Navaamsaas for each sign are as fol- 
lows. 


Sign Vai gothama Sign Vargothama 
Navaamsa Navaamsa 
Maesha* ] Thula 1 
Vrishabha* 5 Vrischika 5 
Mithuna* 9 Dhanu 9 
Kataka* 1 Makara 1 
Simha* 5 Kumbha 5 
Kanya* iC) Meena 9. 


Note that the Ist Navaamsa of movable signs, the fifth of the 
fixed signs and the 9th of the common signs are the Vargothama 
Navaamsaas. 

lt is this fact which is described by Varaahamihira in his Bru- 
hajjathaka (1, 14) as: 

Vargoathamaa: charagruhaadishu Poorvamadhya 

Paryanthatha: — susubhadaa navabhaaga = samjnaa:’ 

(In movable (‘chara’) Rasis the first, in fixed (Sthira’) Raasis 
middle (that is the 5th) and in Common (‘Ubhaya’'). Raasis the last 
(that is the 9th) Navaamsaas are called 'Vargathama Navaamsaas' 
and these are beneficial). 


A Course in Indian Astrology . 305 

This may be applied to the longitudes of houses also, as is 
applied to the Ascendant and planets. There is the well known pos- 
tulate. 

‘Subham Vargothama janma’. Therefore if any planet or any 
house happens to be in Vargothama-Navaamsa, it would have spe- 
cial strength and would be beneficial. Satyaachaarya has given spe- 
cial significance to ‘Vargothama’ in his five principle. 

We have discussed in detail about Navaamsa, because it is 
most useful among the Vargaas. We conclude this section by re- 
minding you that often the planetary positions are separately given 
as two charts (Rasiand Navaamsa) as is seeninthe following chart. 


dupitar 
Saturn, 


i 


dent 
Sun 
Kethu . 


7. Dasaamsa: 


This is one tenth ofa sign and so has a span of 03". Each sign 
is divided into 10 dasaamsa of 03" Thus up to 03" in any sign falls 
the first dasaamsa, form 3" to 6"in the 2nd dasaamsa and so on. So 
altogether, the zodiac has 12 x 10 = 120 dasaamsaas. The rulership 
of dasaamsaas in a sign is assigned according to the following rule: 

In Odd Signs, the 10 dasaamsaas are owned by the lords of 
the 10 successive signs starting fromthat odd sign itself. In Even 
Signs, the dasaamsa lords are to be counted from the 9th sign on- 
wards. 


306 ACourse in Indian Astrology 

Thus for a planet m 08" 10' in Mithuna, the planet is evi- 
dently in the 3rd dasaamsa (between 6° and 9°). Since Mithuna is 
an Odd Sign, the lords are to be counted from Mithuna. Hence the 
Dasaamsa falls in the 3rd sign from Mithuna, namely Simha. The 
Dasaamsa lord is Sun. 

For a planet in Makara at 27 05’, it is in the 10th dasaamsa 
and since Makara is an even sign the signs are to be counted from 
the 9th sign to Makara namely Kanya. Hence the Dasaamsa falls in 
the 10th of Kanya namely Mithuna and the lord is Mercury. 


8. Dwaadasaamsa: 


This is 1112 of a sign and hence each dwaadasaamsa has a 
span of 30\12 = 2 % or 02° 30°. The 12 successive dwaadasaamsas 
are assigned to the lords ofthe 12 signs starting from the sign it- 
self, This is fairly simple. Examples: 


Planet/ Longt Sign Dwada Dwada Dwada 
House tude saamisaQ saamsa saamsa 
number sign lord 
Sun 2* 18 17' Mithuna 8th Makara’ Suturn 
Mars 705 03' Vrischika 3rd Makara Saturn 
Ascendunt® 28 10! Dhanus 12th Vrischika Mars 


9. Shoadasaamsa: 


This is :ieth of a sign and hence each division is 01 52' 30" in 
extent. The rulership of the 16 Shodasaamsaas ofa sign is fixed by 
the following rule. 

For Movable signs (Mesha, Kataka, Thula and Makara) the 
rulership is counted from Maesha continuously and repetitively. 

For Fixed signs (Vrishabha, Simha, Vrischika and Kumbha) 
the counting is from Simha onwards. 

For Common signs (Mithuna,; Kanya, Dhanus and Meena) 
counting is from Dhanus. 


Shoada Range Soada Range 
SUDIMSH From To saunisa From To 
number number 

| 00° 00 00 01" 52° 30" 9 is 16° 62 a0 
2 ‘ 01" 52°30" or 45° 10 16° 52°30" 18° 45" 

3 03° +h! or>" 37° :10” ll 18" 45° 20° 37° 30" 
d 05° YF! :to" OT" 30° 12 20" aT 30” 22" 30° 

5 07" 30' 01)" 22' 30" 13 22" 30° 24" 22' 30" 
6 og" °22'30" i" 1a 14 24" 22° 30" 26" 15° 

7 i" 15' Ls O70" 15 ar,” 1f 28" 07° .10" 
8 13" 07° 30 15" I, 28" 07' 30" 30" 


This chart can be used to find out the order number of the 
Shoadasaamsa. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 307 

Example 1. Moon is in Makara, longitude is 8* 13 08’. So it is 
in the 5th shoadasaamsa. 

Makara is a movable sign and so count five from Maesha. We 
get Simha Hence the Shoadasaamsa for Moon falls in Simha and 
the lord is Sun. 

Example 2 Mercury 7°19° 07' 30". Mercury is in the 8th sign 
Vrischika. It is in the 11th Shoadasaamsa (see table). Vrischika is a 
fixed sign and hence the Shoadasaamsa is to be reckoned starting 
from Simha (see rule). Thus counting 11 from Simha, we get Mit- 
huna. So the Shoadasaamsa falls in Mithuna and the lord is Mer- 
cury. 

Example 3. Ascendant is in Kanya. Longitude is 5s 17° 10. So 
the Ascendant is in the 10th Shoadasaamsa of Kanya which is a' 
Common sign. So we have to count 10 from Dhanus, Thus we get 
Kanya itself (10th from Dhanus). Thus the Shoadasaamsa-sign of 
the Ascendant is Kanya itself as the lord is Mercury. 

Note: The shoadasaamsaas around the zodiac (16 x 12 = 192) 
are counted continuously from Maesha repetitively. 


10. Vimsaamsa: 


This is 1 zeth of a sign and hence each Vimsamsa has an angu- 
lar span ofs0.20 = 11.2 or 01" 30'. The rulership is fixed by the follow- 
ing rule. 

For Movable signs Vimsaamsaas are counted from Maesha 
successively and repetitively. Thus the lst and 13th Vimsaamsaas 
of any movable sign falls im Maesha. The second and 14th in 
Vrishabha and so on. 

For Fixed signs counting is done from Dhanus and for Com- 
mon signs from Simha. 

Here also all the 240 Vimsaamsaas around the zodiac are 
counted continuously from Maesha. The 20th Vimsaamsa falls in 
Vrischika and so the lst Vimsaamsa of Vrishabha is in Dhanus and 
so on. 

Example: Saturn - 9* 19" 18’. Saturn is in the sign Makara, 
which is a movable sign. 19° 18' falls in the 13th Vimsaamsa (18 to 
19 30'). Hence, Makara being a movable sign counting is from 
Maesha. Count the 13th from Mesha, we get Maesha itself. Hence 
the Vimsaamsa of Saturn falls in Maesha and the lord is Mars. 


308 A Course in Indian Astrology 
UNIT - 67 


11.Siddhaamsa (or Chathurvimsaamsa). 


Siddhaamsa is 1\2ah of a sign and hence is of and angular | 
span of 224 or 1 1.44 which is the same as 01°15'. The successive 
siddhaamsaas end at 01° 15’, 02° 30’, 03° 45’, 05° , 06" 15’, O7 30’, 08° 
45', 10°, 11°15", 12° 30’, 13° 45’, 15°, 16° 15', 17° 30', 18° 45', 20”, 21° 
15’, 22° 30°, 23° 45', 25° , 26° 15', 27° 30', 28° 45’ and 30° 

The Siddhaamsaas are counted starting from Simha for the 
Odd signs and starting from Kataka for even signs. Thus for exam- 
ple, the first and 13th division in odd sign falls in Simha, the 2nd 
and 14thin Kanya, the 3rd and 15thinThula etc. till 12th and 24th 
in Kataka. For the even signs, it starts from Kataka and goes on. 

Example: Venus 8' 19 17’. Venus is in the sign Dhanus (9th) 
and it is an odd one 19 27' falls in the 16th Siddhaamsa. Count from 
Simha the 16th sign, we get Vrischika, Hence the Siddhaamsa lord 
is Mars. 


12. Bhaamsa or Nakshathraamsa or Saptavimsaamsa: 


This is 1\27th ofa sign and hence has a span ofmo\27 = 1 1 = 
01° 06' 40". The Bhaamsaas are counted from Mesha for the trines 
(Maesha, Simha and Dhanus), from Kataka to the signs Vrishabha, 
Kanya and Makara, from Thula for the signs Mithuna, Thula and 
Kumbha and from Makara for the signs Kataka, Vrischika and 
Meena. 

The four sets ofsigns are Fiery-signs, earthy-signs, airy-signs 
and watery-signs. The counting is from the four movable signs for 
each set. 


Fiery signs count from - .. Maesha 
Earthy signs count from - Kataka 
Airy signs count from - Thula 

Watery signs count from - Makara 


It may be noted that the lst, 13th and 25th Bhaamsaas fall in 
the same sign. And so also 2nd, 14th and 26th ete. 


13.Thrimsaamsa; 


This is again a very important Varga like the Navaamsa. Clas 
sical texts use this Vargaina number of ways to readthe character 
of the person. 

Varaahamihira too has given very important significance to 
the Thrimsaamsa. 


A Course uundian Astrology 309 

The name Thrimsaamsa suggests that it is 1\30 ofa sign and 
hence each Thrimsaamsa is of a span of 1". Unlike the subdivision 
described so far, in Thrimsaamsa, each degree is not governed by a 
lord. 

The rule for Thrimsaamsa lordship is as follows: 
Odd Signs: 
First 5 degrees governed by Mars 

next 5° (.e., 5th to 10th deg.) by Saturn 

next 8° (i.e., 10th to 18th deg.) by Jupiter 

nexr 7° (i.e., 18th to 25th deg.) by Mercury 

next 5°(i.e., 25th to 30th deg.) by Venus 

Even Signs: (The above order is reversed). 

First 5 deg - governed by Venus 


5 to 12 deg - - Mercury 
12 to 20 deg- P- Jupiter 
20 to 25 deg re Saturn 
25 to 30 deg. 59 Mars 


The following verses from Paraaasara may be useful to re- 
member the order: 

Thrimsaamsaaesaascha vishamae 

Kujaarkeejya jna  bhaargavah: 

Pancha-panchaasta-sapthaaksha 

Bhaagaanaam;vyathyayaath Samae. 

The order of the lords of Thrimsaamsas is Kuja, Arki (Saturn), 
Eejya (Jupiter), Jna (Mercury) and Bhaargava (Venus) at respec- 
tively 5,5, 8, 7 and 5 degrees im odd (Vishama) Signs. This order is 
reversed in even (Sama) signs. 

Note: The Thrimsamsas are not usually given any definite 
signs. They are discussed with reference to the lords as above. But 
sometimes cach portion above is assigned to a sign also as given in 
certain texts. The principle is seemingly this. In odd signs, the five 
different portions are assigned to the odd signs owned by the re- 
spective Thrimsaamsa lord while in even signs, the successive por- 
tions are allocated to the even signs owned by the respective lords. 

For instance, in odd sign the first 5 is owned by Mars, the 
corresponding sign givenin the even signis owned by Venus namely 

In Odd signs 


Lord Sign 
First 5, Mars Maesha 
Next 5 Saturn Kumbha 
Next. 8 Jupiter Dhanus 
Next 7 Mercury Mithuna 


Next 5 Venus Thula 


310 ACourse 


In Even signs 


Lord Sign 
First 5 Venus Vrishabha 
Next 7 Mercury Kanya 
Next Jupiter Meena 
Next 5 Saturn Makara 
Next 5 Mars Vrischika 


Examples: 

Moon 8' 21" 50’ 

Moon is in the 9th sign, Dhanus. It is an odd sign. So it falls 
in the portion 18" to 25" owned by Mercury, Thrimsaamsa Lord Mer- 
cury. (Thrimsaamsa sign Mithuna). 

We say that the Moon is in Mercury's Thrimsaamsa. 


UNIT- 68 


14. Khavaedaamsa or Chathvaarimsaamsa: 


This is !\10o0fa signand henceis “% or 45'is extension. Each 
successive Vt portion is allotted to a definite sign and its lord ac- 
cording to a fixed rotation scheme as fallows. 

In Odd signs the 40 Khavaedaamsaas are counted from 
Maesha and from Thula for Even signs. 

Thus the Ist, 13th, 25th and 37th Khavaedaamsaas of all odd 
signs fall in Maesha and Mars is the lord. The second, 14th, 26th 
and 38th would be in Vrishabha and so on. 

Example: A planet is posited at 19°07’ in Makara. 19" 07’ is in 
the 26th Khavaedaamsa (18° 45' to 19° 30'). Makara is an even sign 
and hence count 26 from Thula. We get Vrischika. Hence the 
Khavaedaamsa of the planet falls in Vrischika and Mars is the lord. 


15. Akshavaedaamsa: (1/45 Division) 


This is 1\45th of a sign and hence each unit is 40'. 

In movable signs (Maesha, Kataka, Thula and Makara) count- 
ing starts from Maesha in fixed signs (Vrishabha, Simha, Vrischika 
and Kumbha) counting is from Simha, and in common signs (all the 
rest, i.e. Mithuna, Kanya, Dhanus and Meena) counting is from 
Dhanus. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 


UNIT 69 


16.Shashtiamsa: (1/60 Division) 


This is‘1\6c0th of as sign and hence each Shashtiamsa has a 


range of % or 30". 


311 


All the sixty Shashtyamsaasare given different names which 
indicate the benefic or malefic nature. The sequence of sixty succes- 
sive Shashtiamasaas in Odd sign is given below, along with their 
malefic\benefic nature ifany by M\B. The Order of names is re- 


versed in even signs. 
S1.No.Name Longitude 


1 2 

1.Ghora 0-O0to0- 30 
2.Rakshasa  0-30to1-00 
3Devamsa 1-00to01-30 
4.Kuberamsa 1-30t02-00 
cuystediar 


5.Yakshamsa 2-00to2-30 
singing 


6.Kinnaramsa 
enly being with 


7.Bhrastamsa 3-00t03-30 
8.Kulanganamsa 

who ruins family 

9 Guralamsa 4-00t.4-30 
10.Agniyamsa 4-30to5-00 
1l.Mayamsa 5-00to05-30 
12.Pretapurisaimsea 5-30to6 00 
13Apapatyamsa 

Lord of Oceans. 


14.Maruthamsa 
of Vaayu 
15 Kaslamsa 7-00to7-30 


16.Ahobhava 

Sarpamsa 7-30to8-00 
17.Amritamsa 8-00toB-30 
which 
death 


Nature 
3 

Evil 

Evil 


Good 
Good 


Good 


2-30to3-00 


Evil 
3-30ta 4-00 


Evil 
Evil 
Evil 
Evil 
6-00to6-30 


6-30to7-00 


Evil 


Good 
Good 


Meaning 
4, 
Aweful 


Demonical 


Godly 
Haevenly 

of treasure 
A heavenly 


being 
Good heav- 


human head and 
animal body 
Outcast 

Evil one 


Poison 

Fire 

Deceit 

Dirt 

Good The 


Varuna 
Good Lord 


Lord of Death, 
Dharma 


Snake 
Elixir of life 
saves from 


312 

18.Chandramsa 
19.Mudramsa 9-00to9-30 
20 Komalamsa 9-30to0 10-00 


21.Horabhaimsa 
22. Brahmamsa10-30to11-00 
23 Vishnu Amsa 


24.Muheswaramsal 1-30t012-00 
25.Devumsu 12-00t012-30 

26 Indramseu 12-30t013-00 
27.Kalmashaumsa 


28.Kshitiswuraimsa 
29.Kamlakeramsa 


30.Gulikamsa 14-30t015-00 
31.Mrutuamsa 15-00t015-30 


32.Kalamsua 15-30to 6-00 
33.Dawugniamsa 


‘ 
34,Horamsa 
35.Yamamsa 


16-39to17-00 
17-00ta17-30 


36.Kantakamsa 
37.Sudhamsa 18-00to18-30 


38.Amritamsa 18-30ta19-00 
39.Poorna 19-00ta19- 30 . 
chandramsa - 
40.Pratha 
gandhamsa 
41.Kalinamsa 20-00to20-30 


19-30ta20-00 


42.Vamsha 20-30to2100 


shtamsa 
43,.Utpalamsa 21-00t0e21-00 


44, Kalirupamsa 


45.Soumyamsua 22 00t022-30 


A Course in 
8-30to9-00 
Good 
Good 


10-00tol0-30 
Good 
11-00to11-30 
Good 
Good 


Good 
13-00to13-30 


13-30to14-00 
14-00tol4-30 


Evil 
Evil 


Evil 
16-00to16-30 


Evil 
Evil 


17-30to18-00 
Good 


Good 
Good 


. Evil 


by poison 
Evil 


Good 


Evil 
21-39to22-00 


Good 


Indian Astrology 
Good Moon 
Soft 

Tender and 
attractive 
Good 
Ganesh 
The creator, 
Brahma 
Good 
Vishnu, 
Lord. Siva 
Godly 
Moist 
Evil 
Destruction of 
strife 


Lord 


Lord 


Good King 
Good Lake 
of Lotus 


Son of Saturn 
Death or son of 


Mars 

Lord of death 
Evil Wild 
fire 

Aweful 


Lord of Death 
and Dharma 
Evil Thorn 
Amrutha.holy 
nectar 

Elixir of life 
Moon 


Burnt 


Destruction of 
family 

Enf of 

clan or family 
line 

Calamity like 
earthquake etc. 
Evil Lord 
of death 

Mild benefic 


A Course in Indian Astrology 313 


46.Komalamsa 22-30t023-00 Good tender and 
attractive 
47. Sheetalamsa23-00to23-30 Good Cool 
48.Ghansiga 23-30to 24-00 Good Aweful fangs 
Karanumsa 
49 Indumuthamsa  24-00t024-30 Evil 
Having a 
Moonlike face 
50.Pravinumsa 24-30to25-00 Good Sinart and 
clever 
51,Kalagniamsa 25-00t025-30 Evil Fire destroying 
the world 
52.Dandayudh- 25-30te26-00 Evil Punishment rod 
asamsa 
53.Nirmalamsa 26 00t026-30 Evil without sim or 
dirt 
54,Soumyamsa 26-30to27-00 Good mild benefic 
55.Krooramsa 27-00to27-30 Evil cruel x 
56.Atiseetalamsa 27-30to28-00 Good Very cold 
57.Sudhamsa 28-00to28-30 Good Elixir of life 
58.Payodhiamsa 28-30 to29-00 Good Ocean 
59.Brahmamsa  29-00to29- 30 Evil wandering 
60.Indurekhamsa 29-30to30-00 Evil line of moon 


For even signs, Shashtyamas are counted backwards start- 
ing from the last one, Indurekhamsa -00-00 to 00-30, 00-30 to 1-00, 
1-00 to 1-30 etc. are Indurekhamsa,Brahmamsa, Payodhiamsa etc. 
and so on.This has been enumerated by ShriM.V.Mehta in a lead- 
ing article in Astrtological magazine. 

The results of the different Shashtyamsas are as follows: 

1. Ghoramsa - Gives trouble to preceptor. 

2. Rakshaimsa - Slave, trader, dance, tailor ete. 

3. Devamsa ¢ Psychologist and parapsychologist. 

4. Kuberamsa - Gamblers, race-goers, speculators etc. 

5. Yakshamsa - Merchant of elephants, horses, carriages, 
politicians, ambassadors etc 

6. Kinnaramsa - Writers, poets, ‘journalists, typists, stenos, 
clerks ete. 

7. Bhristamsa - Decorators, horsetraders, people who forget 
honest ways. 

8. Kalaganasainsa - Actors, dramatists, T V.stars, cinema art- 
ists, people who transgress their family tradition. 

9. Garalamsa - Dancer, folk singers, travellers, boxers. 

10. Agnivainsa - People who are engaged.in performing yagnas 
and other ceremonies. im - 


314 A Course in Indian Astrology 

11. Mayamsa - Religious preachers. 

12. Pretapurisainsa - Donors, religious administrations. 

13. Apapatyaimsa - Invalid, administrator of such institutions 
-restaurants. 

14. Maruthamsa - Leader ofthe Town Sarpanch, councillor, 
revenue officer, haircutter, 

15. Kalaamsa - Gambler, berbar runners. 

16. Sarpaamsa- People who are engaged in business which 
make general public happy club-goers, owners of drama theatres, 
tour organisers, caretakers, owners ol rest houses, gardeners, pub- 
lic relations officers. 

17. Amritaamsa - Flower merchants, traders of scents and 
producers of such articles, nursery gardeners, chemical traders, 

18. Chandraamsa - Government servants, public company. 

19. Mndraamsa - Military person. police, NCC, Home Guards 
etc. 

20. Komalamsa - Vegeltuble merchant, chemist, vaidya, 
Naturopath, merchant sellingfood stuff doctors etc. 

21. Horaamannsa - T.V., Cinema, drama, 

22. Brahmamsa - Chemicals, pan traders, cashewnut trad- 
ers. 

23 Vishunuamsa - Traders of illegal articles (prohibited), black 
marketeers. 

24. Maheswaramsa - Landlord, electrical representative etc 

25. Devamsa - Musician, artist. 

26. Indramsa - Saints, religious heads, religions preachers. 

21. Kalinasamsa - Religious people, preachers 

28. Kshitiswaramsa - Traders of items denoted by Venus, 
Clothes, perfumes, fancy articles, items of beauty. 

29. Kamalakaramsa - Manufacturers of medicines, surg.cal 
instruments, chemist shops, doctors, Vaidyas etc. 

30. Gulikaimsa - Trader of household articles. electronics, cos- 
metics, scents, powders, articles of beauty parlour etc. 

31 Mrutyukaramsa - Porters. drivers of (rickshaw, taxi, truck, 
train). 

32. Kalamsa * Ceramic manufacturers - crockery, cutlery, 
kitchen instruments manufacturers. 

33. Devangamsa - Farmers. land owners, people in irrigation 
department, manufacturers of fertilizers and land developers. 

34. Ghoraainsa - Trader, industrialist, wholesaler. 

35. Yamamsa - Plastic, leather mdustry, rubber industry, ho- 
siery, jewellery and casting. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 315 

36. Kantakanisa - Farmers, tractor, drivers, bulldozer driv- 
ers, weighing machines. 

37. Sudhamsa - Pandit, learned in religious scriptures, profes- 
sor, tutor. 

38. Ainritamsa - Researcher, scientist. 

39 Poornachandramsa - Writer, publisher,,researcher, ad- 
vertiser, journalist, librarian. 

40. Vishapradigdhamsa - Washerman, printer, cloth manu- 
facturer (cloth drier), synthetic cloth, woolen clothing, manufac- 
turer and trader. 

41.Kulanasamsa - Trader - exportimport trade, salesman, 
representative. 

42. Vamsakyshyamsa - Professor, principal, religious philoso- 
pher, typist, literarym, purohit, astrologer, grammarian. 

43. Utpathakamsa - Scientists, knower of the Vedas. 

44. Kalarupaisa - Receptionist, protector of VVIPs, the well- 
wishers of kings. 

45 Sounryamsa - Military head, related to defence depart- 
ment. 

46 Komalamsa - Top officers in Government. 

47. Sheetalamsa - Mathematician, engineer, computer expert, 
accountant, finance department officials. 

48. Danstrakaranamsa - Judge, collector, police chief, secre- 
tary, man mrevenue department, Home department, tribunals etc. 
(people with power to impose fine). 

.49. Chandramukhamsa - Robbers - evil doers, thieves, mur- 
derers, CID etc. 

50 Pravinamsa - Gas, coal, fuel, kerosene, electricity, heater, 
fire kiln makers etc. 

51. Kalagulainsa - Vegetable merchants, fast food restaurant 
owners, sweet -meat sellers, hotel, canteen runners etc. 

52. Dandayudhamsa - Home department, justice department, 
top officials in Government. 

53 Nirmalamsa - Jewellery merchant, mine diggers, persons 
who are engaged in golden and silver ornament preparations (gold- 
smiths). 

54, Soumyainsa -: Agriculturist, mine worker, mineral mer- 
chant, land owner. 

55; Krooramsa - Milk, mutton, drinks, sweets, hotel, restau 
rant owners etc, 

56.Atiseetalamsa - Purohit who handles Yagnas and other 
religious acts. 


316 A Course in Indian Astrology 

57. Amritamsa, - Professor, teachers, knower of the Vedas, 
writers, guide book publishers etc 

58.Payodhiamsa - Inspectors, police superintendents, presi- 
dents, etc. 

59. Brahmanamsa - Beggars, recipieuts of donations. 

60. Indurekhamsa - Pearl merchants, precious articles, fish- 
ermen, gardeners and owners of big gardens. 


More about Divisions (Vargas) 


UNIT 70 


Knowledge of the Vargaas of each planet and house is useful 
in a number of ways mn deciphering the mysteries ofthe birth-chart. 
Many predictions offer prove to be inaccurate usually because the 
Astrologer overlooks the Vargaas. For instance a malefic planet in 
benefic Vargaas may not only lose the maleficity but may even be- 
come a benefic, especially when it is strong. The well-known dic- 
tum quoted in Jaathakaadaesa reveals this. 


Paapagrahaa balayuthaa subhavargasamstthaa: 

Soumyaa  bhavanthi — subhavargaga—s soumyadrushtaa: 

The reverse also may happen, namely a benefic planet may 
become malefic on account of malefic Vargaas. 

Another importance of Vargaas is that a planet may become 
malefic on account of malefic Vargaas. 

Another importance of Vargaas is that it reveals relations 
between planets in a horoscope in several ways often than the natu- 
ral relations. For example, there can be relations through con- 
junctions aspects, angular position (being in quadrants), trinal po- 
sition, exchange of house. There can be often important relations 
such as position ofone planet in an asterism ruled by another planet. 
Similarly to be in the Varga ofa planet is also relation to that planet. 
Thus ifa planet in the majority of the Vargaas happens to be in the 
Varga owned by say. Jupiter, then the effect of the planet should be 
controlled or influenced by Jupiter. Such relations are essential when 
we interpret the effects of each period and sub-period. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 317 

Though we have not yet-discussed about the 'strength' of plan- 
ets in a quantitative way, it is necessary to understand that one 
would have to calculate the exact strength of planets. If we have to 
decipher its effects. And in calculating the strength we would re- 
quire the Vargaas. 

It must be stated that most of the works on Astrology do not 
exhaustively and systematically treat the section Vargaas, and con- 
sequently the Vargaas do not often receive the importance that they 
deserve. Paraasara and Varaahauiihira have given very great im- 
portance to Vargaas. Even those sages have not revealed tc us m 
detail the method of applications of the Varga concept Astro logically, 
except perhaps the Navaamsa,' Draekkana, Thrimsaainsa and 
Dwaadasaamsa. 

However, Paraasara has indicated in a nutshell the signifi- 
cance of the so-called ‘ShoadasaVargaas’ or 16 divisions. Taking 
this hint, several Astrologers have realized the necessity of all those 
Vargaas. Though time-consumuimg, this is rewarding too. 

From each of the 16 divisions (the Vargaas) one has'to judge 
certain specific aspects. These have been described differently by 
several authors, but. we may accept the commonly adopted conven- 
tion suggested by Paraasara. Thus one has to judge the affairs, of 
the body through the Ascendant. Hoara is to be used to judge about 
the wealth, the Draekaana for the happiness due to ones coborns, 
the Chathurthaamsa for the fortunes, the Sapthaamsa for the off- 
spring, Navaamsa for affairs of the wife (or husband), Dasamaamsa 
for status, livelihood etc., Dwaadasaamsa for one's parents, 
Shoadasaamsa for vehicles, happiness ete. Vimsaamsa for spiritual 
involvements. Chaturvimsaamsa for educational aspects, 
Nakshathraamsa for spiritual involvements. Thrimsaamsa for bad 
effects. Khavaedaamsa for auspicious and malefic effects, 
Akshavaedamsa and Shashtiamisa for all aspects. 

This implies a lot, when one judges, for example about the 
children of the native not only the usual 5th house, the significator 
and the lord of 5th house but also the Sapthaamsa of these factors 
would be considered. Inthe same way for each aspects of each house, 
one would wisely consider the corresponding Varga also in addition 
to the usual parameters. 

In fact as we use the Navaamsa chart, we have to consider 
the other divisional charts and use them to read off the detailed 
effects. It seems that only Navaamsa charts alone are most widely 
used, but not the other Wivisional charts. 


318 A Course in Indian Astrology 

In fact as we use the Navaamsa chart, we have to consider 
the other divisional charts and use them to read off the detailed 
effects. It seems that only Navaamsa charts alone are most widely 
used, but not the other divisional charts. 

Very often, all the Vargaas are not considered by astrologers 
‘ofthe 'busy' modern times. Invariably one has to consider the most 
important among the Vargaas. There are four different ways of se- 
lection of the most indispensable Vargaas. Some select 6 of the 
Vargaas (Shadvarga), some choose seven (Sapthavarga), some use 
ten (Dasavarga) and a few consider all the sixteen (Shodasavarga). 

Shadvarga: Sign, Hoara, Draekkaana, Navamsa, 
Dwaadasaamsa and Trimsaamsa. 

Sapthavasga: All the above and additionally Sapthaamsa! 

Dasavarga: All the above 7 and additionally Dasamamsa, 
Shoadasaamsa and Shashtiamisa. 

Shoadasavarga: All the 16 Vargaas. 

In casting complete horoscopes, one should tabulate at least 
the Sapthavarga (7 Vargaas) if not all, or Shadvarga. 

Exercise: You would have by this time cast your own horo- 
scope. Tabulate the 7 Vargaas of each planet and the Ascendant in 
a chart form as below. 


Lords of 


- 


A course in Astrology / 150 


320 A Course in Indian Astrology 


Longitudes of Bhaavas 
Bhaavasphuta 


UNIT -71 


We have learned how to calculate the longitude of the As- 
cendant, i.e.. the longitude of the first house (first Bhaava). This is 
the exact position of the zodiac which comes in the rising Position of 
the Eastern horizon at the time under consideration The calcula- 
tion has been further extended to calculate the longitude of the 
tenth house which comes exactly at mid-heaven. But for each side- 
real time the longitude of the 10th house is the same for all lati- 
tudes and these have also been tabulated in the Table of Ascend- 
ants for each 04' interval of ST. 

Let us calculate the 10th house-longitude for the birth time 
02.50 PM. IST. at Calicut on 10-01-89, for which we calculated the 
Ascendant in Unit 62. The sidereal time for this birth was calcu- 
lated there as 20hr. 42min 36sec. Using the Table of Ascendants 
(Lahiri). we take the 10th house longitude for 20hr. 40min. and for 
20hr. 44min. Then we obtain the longitude for 20 hr. 42 min. 36 sec. 
by taking proportional parts. Finally we apply theAyaanamsa cor- 
rection since the tabulation in Lahiri's Table is in Nirayana system, 
but using only 23 for the Ayanamsa instead of using the Ayamaamsa 
for the day. 

[The point of intersection of the ecliptic of the time in ques- 
tion with the meridian of the place in the 10th house which is also 
called the mid-heaven or Medium Coeli (or MC)J. 

For the ST 20hr. 42min. 36sec. the calculation is as given 
below: 

MC for 20hr. 40mm. 
MC for 20hr. 44min. 


9° 14° 35° 
9' 15" 34' 


A Course in Indian Astrology 32] 


Difference for 04min. = 00 59' 

Required ST = 20hr. 44min. 36sec. 
This is 02min. 36sec. . 
more than 20hr. 40min. 


Therefore Cotrection for 
02min. 36sec. (49° + 04min.) x O2min. 36 sec 
00 38' 21" 
Therefore x house longitude = 9*14" 15' + 
00° 38'21" 
9* 14° 53° 21" 
Actual Ayanaamsa for the day= 23° 42721” (See Unit 62) 
Therefore Ayanaamsa Correction= 42' 21' 
Corrected x house longitude = 9°. 14° 53 Alt — 
' 00" 42'21". 
= 9 14° 11°00" 
This is the longitude of the xth house for the case under consid- 
eration. We calculated the longitude of the Ist house (Ascendant) 
for the same case in Unit 62 and found it to be 0' 22° 45' 15", 


Holl 


Signs and Houses: 


The signs and houses are not. the Same. The signs are fixed in 
extent (each equal to 30 ), but the extent of each house would be 
different according to Astrological theories. Sign is the 1\22 th divi- 
sion of the zodiac measuring 360 degrees Where as Bhava is the 
human of experience starting from the moment of first breathing of 
the child. The Bhaavaas also are 12 in number and are marked in 
the Raasichakra itself The number of Raasi is fixed ie., Maesha 
will always be the first Raasi while Ascendant will be the first 
Bhaava. So that Raasi will be the Bhaava in which the ascendant 
falls. This different should be carefully understood. 

There are several systems used by Indian and Western As- 
trologers in assigning the extent of each house. These methods have 
been described in detail in the Table of Ascendants by Lahiri and 


322 A Course in Indian Astrology those who are interested in the 
subject are advised to read that sectian..J-lere we will consider only 
two of these methods which are simple. 

In the method of equal division, one calculates the longitude 
of the Ascendant as we have descibed in Unit 62. This is taken as 
the middle point of the first house (Bhaavamadhya). The mid one- 
points of all the other houses are obtained by adding 30° (ie. 1 sign) 
to this successively. So subtracting 15° to it gets the end of that 
house. The beginning and end of a house is not very much used, 
except by unskilled Astrologers. 

The accurate Indian method is based on the Sreepathi 
Padhathi which is described in “A manual of Hindu Astrology’ by 
B.V.Raman and also in Lahiri's Table of Ascendants. On the basis of 
this method, the longitude of Ascendant and the longitude of the 10th 
house (MC) are calculated as already described. These are treated as 
the midpoints of the first and 10th house respectively and from it 
the x other midpoints are calculated as described be-low. 


Consider the circle above 
which is a representation of the 
zodiac. The lst house and 10th 
house are calculated. Add 180" to 
the longitude of the first 
“house when you would get lon- 
gitude of the VII house. So also 
the IVth house can be obtained 
by adding 180° (ie. 6 signs) to 
the Xth house. Also they are be- 

tw 


is equal to the IV between houses VIIth and Xth. These have been 

marked as ‘a’ in the diagram. So also the other 2 arcs also are equal 
and have been marked as 'b'. The midpoint of the houses between 
Ist and [Vth are obtained by adding one third of the corresponding 
arc successively. Similarly the longitudes of the houses between 
IVth and VII are obtained by adding one third of the arc “b' succes- 
sively to the longitude of the IV house. Having obtained houses I to 
VI the remaining houses are obtained by adding 6 signs of these, 
VII= 1+6s; VII11I+6s; IX=III+6s. 

X as already been obtained and it is IV + 6s 

XI-V+6s andXII-VI+6s. 

These longitudes are taken as the midpoints of the respective 
houses. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 323 
The various Bhaavasandhis (ie. beginnings and endings of 
each house) are obtained by bisecting the successive mid-points. 
The Aarambhasandhi beginning of any house is also the 
Viramasandhi (end) ofthe previous house. 
Now let us calculate the longitudes of various house for the 
birth time for which we obtained the Ascendent and MC. 


I= — O? 22 46' 15" = 22 46' 15” 
X= 9* 14 11'00” = 284 11°00" . 
VII =1+ 6 = Of 22 46' 15° + 6s: 
= (6? 22 46' 15") 
wos = 202 46' 15” 
IV= K+ 6" = 9 14.11' 0O"+6" . 
Bisae 6 = -15* 1411'00”. 
‘x i th = 3° 14 11' 00” 
= 104 11' 00”: . 


VIT | 202° 46 15" 


Iv 104°.11' 
a a = 104° 11'-- 
22° 461 15" 
am . = 81" 24' 45" . 
V3. = 812415 +3 =27°8'15 
b =VII-IV = 202° 46' 15" — 
os 104" 11' 
: = 09” 35' 15" 
a b/3 = 98° 35'15"+ 3= 32°51' 45” 
I "= 0°22 4615, 
Ii = 1+ a/3 = Of 22° 46'15"+27°3' 15" | 
= it 19"54'30" . 
III = Il+a/3 = 2 17° 2' 40" 
IV = 3: 1411: 
Vv = [V+b/3 = 3° 14” 1]'+ 32° 51! 45" 
= 4° 17° 2' 45" , 
VI * = V+b/3 = ° 5% 19° 54' 30" 


324 ACourse in Indian Astrology 


Now the house VII to XII are obtained by adding 180 to the 
houses I to VI respectively. The beginning and end of each house 
can also be obtained. For example, to get the beginning of the first 
house we add the houses 1 and XI and devide by 2. To get the begin- 
ning of 1 we take the average of 1 and XII and so on. Butbe careful 
in certain cases, where the longitude is near 360 

For instance XII, in this case= 349° 54° 30° 

and I= 22°46" 15" 

Here, if you add these together and devide by 2 you would get 
an absurd answer for, from XII to I the point 360° is crossed and 
then 22" 46' 15” 

Which thus becomes equal to 382° 46" 15". 

There for thejunction I and XI]=(349" 54' 30" + 382° 46! 15") 

divided by 2 

=366° 20' 22.5"=06" 20° 22.5” 

Thus th I house begins at 06° 20 22.5" and it is obvious that 

the house XII ends here. So consolidating all the above we get. 


House Aerambha Mid-point Viraamsandhi 
sandhi( Beginning) (End) 

I O" 06” 20' 22.5" O* 22" 46' 15" 1* 06° 20' 22.5" 
II 1 a6" 20° 22.5 1* 19" 54' 30" 2. 03" 28' 37.5 
lll 2* 03" 28' 37.5" 2* 17" 02' 45" 3* 00" 36° 52,5” 
IV 3° OCT 3G' 52.5" 3* "14° 11' 00° 4, 00° 36' 52.5" 
Vv 4* 00" 3S' 52.5" 4 17" 02°45" . 5° 03" 28! 37.5" 
VI 5, 03” 28' 37.5" 6 19° 54° 30" 6; 06° 20' 22.5" 
VII 6 06" 20° 22.5' G* 22" 46' 15" 7 06° 20' 22.5" 
VIII 7 06° 20' 22.5 7* 19° 54° 30” S; 03" 28' 37.5" 
IX 8* 03° 28! 37.5" 8° 17° Q2' 45" 9° 00" 36'525" 
x 9 00" 36'52.5" 9° 14° 11° 00" 10* 00" 36° 52.5" 
XI J0* 00° 36' 52.5" 10° 17° 02' 45" 11* 03" 238! 37.5" 
XII 11' 03° 2S' 37.5" 11° 19° 54' 30” o* 06° 20' 22.5" 


Now it is clear that the Ascendant (first house) extends from 
06" 20 22.5" in Maesha to 06" 20 22.5" in Vrishabha. It is only 
accidental that this happens to be exactly 30". The other houses are 
not equal to 30°. Further we can't take a planet pointed at 3' in 
Maesha as being in the Ascendant or first, house though the As- 
cendant sign is Maesha. The planet at 03" Maesha is really in the 
12th house. Note the longitude of the first and 12th house. The 
Ascendant starts at 06° andthe 12th house ends at 06° . So the 
planet positioned in 03° canbe in the 12th house only and not in 
the first house. So it is evident, that ome has to calculate the 
longitudes of the houses as above and then decide the positions of 


A Course in Indian Astrology 325 
each planet in the various houses. 

Further, it is well known that a planet at ajunction (Bhaava- 
sandhi) is not capable of showing its capabilities It does not have 
strength, A planet, ifit has to manifest all ofthe results its position 
in houses and in signs, it has to, be at the Bhaavamadhya. So in this 
respect also the importance of calculating the longitudes of each 
house becomes indispensable. 

No wonder that most half-learned persons who dare to pre- 
dict invariably fail to make exact prediction, for most 'customers' 
bring with them the birth chart with only the planetary positions 
in the various signs, without the longitudes of houses. And every- 
one would make haste to get the Astrological advice in a very short 
time, during which, even ifthe Astrologer knows his limitations of 
time and the importance of the longitudes of houses, he does not 
find time enough to calculate the required parameters. If you want 
to be a scientific Astrologer, you should never give predictions with- 
out exact longitudes of planets as well as houses. If you overlook 
this and decide to give 'satisfaction' to your customer, you would 
definitely end up in trouble and you would also be bringing a bad 
réputation to this excellent science. 


Western Methods of House 
Division 


UNIT- 72 


lt is very important to understand that what has been given 
so far, is based on the Hindu systems or the Indian system accord- 
ing to Sreepathi. However all present day Astrologers do not com- 
pletely approve this system and many are inclined to use certain 
other western systems, which have been described briefly in the 
Lahiri Table of Ascendants and other books. 


The question as to whether, the longitudes calculated are to 


326 A Course in Indian Astrology 
be taken as the beginning of each house (cusps) or as the midpoints 
as in the Hindu method is not settled. One has to evolve out of his 
experience and by systematic analysis, one's own logical conclu- 
sions. However. several Astrologers use the Raphaels’s Table of 
houses for calculating the 'cusps' or beginnings of houses. In princi- 
ple, the method of using this table also is the same as that of Lahiri's. 

The Raphael's 'Table of Houses' gives the Saayana longitudes 
and having obtained the Saayana longitude we have to subtract 
Ayanaamsa to obtain the Niryana longitudes. This method is also 
practised, to calculate the Nirayana cusps and using them as begin- 
nings of houses. 

The advantage of using Tables of houses is that in this book 
the longitudes of 6 Bhaavaas (houses) viz 10. 11.12, I, 2, 3, are 
exactly given where as in Tables of Ascendants only 2 Bhaavaas viz 
10, 1 are given. The other 4 calculations we have to make. 

You have now been exposed to some of the delicate problems 
for which answers are yet to be obtained, In the west, our system is 
being followed by several Astrologers and it is equally true that 
some of us are inclined to adopt the western systems. But most 
often we find Astrologers using partly one system and Partly an- 
other. A mixing of different concepts have taken place. 

Exercise: Now that you have learned bow to calculate the plane- 
tary positions, Upugrahaus, Aprakausitha Gruhaas und longitudes of 
houses, you can cast your own baroscope. That is the exercise in this 
unit. 

Note: If you do not have the exact latitude and longitude for 

any place, then take the latitude and longitude of the nearest known 
place. 


Course in Astrology 327 


Matching of Horoscopes for 
Marriage 


Unit 73 


Marriage, in India, is considered as a very auspicious func- 
tion and not as a mere celebration. It is a divine union of two lives. 
Truly, itis said that marriages are made in heaven. As such there 
is great Astrological significance to the selection of one's partner. 
Historically speaking, one can easily be convinced, that horoscope 
matchingis not a prerequisite for marriage, for, one would have to 
get his predetermined partner about whom the horoscope gives 
definite indications. Further our epics describe several marriages 
in detail but we do not find any matching of horoscopes. Definitely, 
matching of horoscopes in all probability would have come into prac- 
tice at a much later period. Also we have to note that Paraasara 
Hoara Sasthraa, Bruhajjathaka of Varaahamihira, Jaathaka Sathya 
acharyeeyam and even Phaladeepika of Matraeswara do not dis 
cuss the present-day methods of Astrological matching of horoscopes. 
But they have all discussed in detail the indications one gets from 
the horoscope about one's partner. However, it must be remem- 
bered that planets only ‘indicate’ the possibilities and they do not 
‘compel’. Thus, it would be desirable to know the attitudes, imter-. 
ests and other aspects of the partner before we choose the partner. 
Also if one has to géleet the most suitable partner from a few cases 
then Astrology comes to our aid Two fives are being merged into 
one by marriage. The life of each of the couple should influence the 
life of the other. And so, a difficult period in the life of one may-be 
‘compensated' to some extent by the soothing influence of the plan- 
ets in the horoscope of the partner. Many who approach Astrology 


328 Course in Astrology 
with national] views in the horoscope of the partner. Many who ap- 
proach Astrology with national views infer that ‘matching’ of horo- 
scope has been a contribution of the Greeks. 

The important Astrological works on the basis of which match- 
ing is practised nowadays are ‘Prasna Maarga’ (the celebrated work 
of Kerala, written by an anonymous author who belongs to Edakkaad 
near Telhcherry), Jaathakaadesa ofPudumana Choemaathiri about 
300 years age and a number of well known works on Muboortha 
like Vidyaamaadhaaveeyam, apart from Bruhajjaathakam and other 
basic works. The origin of matching, essentially based on the Moon- 
sign, is described by Yavanajaathaka which is mostprobably of Greek 
origin. 

In this unit we would treat the subject only in an elementary 
way and in brief. Those who want to learn more completely, are 
advised to refer to the original works, or any of the large number of 
books dealing with 'matching', available in several languages. Be- 
ing themost common need, every Astrologer must be well-acquainted 
with the principles of matching . 

Judgement of compatibility of horoscopes is done by deciding 
Astrologically the mental compatibility, compatibility with respect 
to the Dasa and Apahaara sequences, compatibility with respect to 
long life, compatibility with respect to Santhaana-bhaagya, com- 
patibility with respect to the maleficities (Paapa-saamya) and above 
all by identifying the ‘relations’ between the horoscopes (Praaptham). 
For each ‘doshaas’ or malificities in each of the horoscope of couple, 
there must be a proper compensation in the other. Thus judging 
the compatibility is not very easy and it requires a very vast knowl- 
edge of Astrology, and also intuition and skill. 

It is important that one can reach.correct conclusion only if 
the longitudes of houses and planets are available and not merely 
the planetary distribution in the signs. Quite often the Astrologer 
gets only the sign wise distribution and some times the Navaamsa 
chart also, but not the longitudes. This makes the problem more 
difficult. Hence, it is advised that alongwith the systematic judge- 
ment on compatibility of horpscopes, the wise Astrologer must in- 
in question and also by the horary techniques (prasna) (outlined 
later}, Otherwise the conclusions may not be accurate. The time at 
which the compatibility is tested is very important and that itself 
would reveal the compatibility or otherwise. To a wise and devoted 
Astrologer, nature would definitely reveal the future through omens- 
Nimithaas and he has to observe all the omens with serious devo- 


Course in Astrology 329 
tion. The words of such an Astrologer will never become false. 

It is acommon practice to judge the choice of a horoscope, for 
marriage, by the compatibility with respect to a).Raasi [that is the 
Moon-sign], b).Raasy adhipa [lord of Moon-sign], c).Vasya [mutual 
attraction], d).Maahaendra, e).Gana [group], f). Yoani [gender of 
star], ¢).Dima [day], H) Sthree-deergha [stellar distance], i)-Rajju, 
j).Vaedha, k).Dasaa sandhi [conjunction of dasaas], 1).Paapa saamya 
and m).Relationship [praaptham|, between the horoscopes are sev- 
eral. These other tests of compatibility but the above criteria are 
the main ones. Most of the above criteria are based upon the birth 
star that is the constellation in which Moon is posited in the birth 
chart, This is not surprising because Moon is the significator of 
mind fMana, Kaaraka]| and a successful marriage requires mental 
compatibility. 


1. Compatibility of Janmaraasi (Moon-signs) 


Count from the Mo on-sign of the ‘bride’, upto the Moon-sigh 
of the groom. Ifit is 7, 8,9, 10, 11 or 12 there is compatibility. If the 
birth-star is different, then same Moon-sign for both horoscopes 
also is acceptable. According to a few, the forth and also eighth 
signs are of medium agreeability. 

Sthreejanmarkshaat saptamaraasaa-vaekaadasae cha 

dasamae_ cha 

Jaathoa nara: subha:  syaat 

Dwaadasa navamaashtamaeshuchaapi — subha: 

Nakshathrasya thu bhaedae 

Susubha: syaat —pratthamaraasijaschaapi. 

{Jaathakadaesaa XIV, 3 & 4}. 


2. Compatibility ofthe Raasyadhipas 
(Moon Sign Lords) 


The lords of the Moon-signs of the two horoscopes must be 
the same or be friendly to each other. If not there is no compatibil- 
ity But here the planetary friendship is decided by arule different 
from the one that we have already learned. This relationship has 
been given in Bruhajjathaka as the opinion of a few. 

‘Jeevoa, Jeevabudhow, Suhaenduthanayow 

Vyarkaa, Vibhoojaa kramat 

Veenduarka, Vikujaenduinaaschouhurda: 

Kaeshaanchidaevam matham’. 

[Bruhajjathakamj 


330 Course in Astrology 


Planet _ Friendly Planets Learnt Earlier 
Sun Jupiter Moon, Mars, Jupiter 
Moon Jupiter, Mercuy Sun, Mercury 
Mars Venus, Mercury Sun, Moon, Jupiter 
Mercury All except Sun Sun, Venus 
Jupiter All except Mars Sun, Moon, Mars 
Venus All except Moon Saturn. Mercury 
& Sun 
Saturn All except Mars; Venus, Mercury: 
Moon & Sun 


The friendship between planets is easily understandable from 
the above table. 


3. asya [Mutual Attraction] 


For each sign certain other signs are ‘attractive’. Hence, it is 
highly compatible if the Moon-sign of each person is the Vasyaraasi 
(attraction-sign) ofthe Moon-sign ofthe other. The attraction sigus 
are given in the following table. 


Signs Attraction-Sign 

Maesha Vrischika, Simha 

Vrishabha, Kataka, Thula 

Mithuna Kanya 

Simha Mithuna, Meena 

Thula Makara, Kanya 

Vrischika Kataka 

Dhanus Meena 

Makara Kumbha, Maesha 

Kumbha Maesha 

Meena Makara 
‘Vrischika-Simhow, Karkata-jookow, 
Kanyaatha, Koarpichaapaahwow. 


Thouli-sthrutheeya-meenow, 

Mruga-Kanyae, Karkatoatha, Meenaakhya: 
Ghata-maeshaavatha, Maeshoa, 

Mruga; ithi vasyaa: Kramaadajaadeenam 
Anyaendyvoar-vasyarkshae 

Swajanma-Subhadam bhavaedaya vasya: 
[Jaathakaadesam, XIV, 10-11. 


Course in Astrology 331 
eee _ UNIT 74 : ee 


4.Maahaendra Compatibility 


‘Sthreejammarksha _ thrithayaal 

Chathurtha-dik-sapthamaeshuatharkshaeshu 

Jaatha: Subhakrut purushoa 

Maahaendraakhya, Prakeerihithaschaivam. 

fJaathakaadaesanXlV, 12] 

The birth-star proper and the 10th and 19th from it are collec- 
tively called the birth-star-triads. If the birth star of the groom hap- 
pens to be the 4th, 7th or 10th from either the birth-star or one of 
its triads of the bride, there is special compatibility called 
"Mahaendra'. For example, if the asterism in the female horoscope 
be Krithika, Uthra and Utaraashaadha From one of these the 4th, 
7th and 10th stars, if it happens to be the birth star of the male, it 
is said to be compatible with respect to ‘Mahaendra’ criterion. 


5.Gana Compatibility [group agreement) 


Stars have been classified into three groups called 'Ganaas' 
Daeva gaaa, Maanusha gana and Asura gana as follows: 

Daeve gana- Aswini, Mrugaseersha, Punarvasu, Pushya, 
Hastha, Swaathy, Anuraadha, Sraavana, Raevathi. 

Manushaya gana- Bharani, Rohini, Aardra, Poorvaphalguni, 
Uthra, Poorvaashaadha, Uthraashaadha, Poorvaproashatapada, 
Uthraproashtapada. 

Asura gana- Krithika, Aaslaesha, Magha, Cbithra, Visaakha, 
Jyeshta, Moola, Sravishta, Sathabhishak. 

Both the male and female must have the asterisms belonging 
to the same group for maximum compatibility. But for a male born 
in a Deva gana star a female with a Manushya gana star is also 
acceptable. For a daeva gana the Asuragana is not compatible. Other 
combinations are not desirable. 


6.Yoani. (gender) Compatibility 


Asterisms have also been classified into two Yoanis Purusha 
Yoani (male) and Sthree Yoani (female).. 

When the male is born in a male-star and the female in a 
female-star compatibility is maximum When both are born in fe- 
male-star compatibility is medium. Other possibilities are undesir- 
able. 


™ 
332 Course in Astrology 
Male-stars*-Aswini, Bharani, Pushya, Aaslesha, Magha, 
Uthra, Swaathy, Visaakha, Jyeshta, Moola, Poorvaashaadha, 
Uthraashaadha, Sraavana, Poorvaproashtapada. 
Others are female-stars. 


7. Dina Compatibility 


Generally, the 3rd, 5th and 7th stars counted from the birth- 
star of the female or from the 10th birth star or from the 19th of 
birth star are forbidden as the asetrism of the male. That is male 
born in the 3rd, 5th or 7th star from birth-star-triad ofthe female is 
generally incompatible. But there are certain paadas birth-star-tri 
ad of the female is generally incompatible. But there are certain 
paadas of the 3rd, 5th and 7th from the 2nd and 3rd of the triad, 
which can be accepted. 

(This table is worked out in the Astrological tables prepared 
by Prof: N.E.Muthuswamy). 


8.Sthree-deergha Compatibility 


The star of the male should be the 14th or beyond when 
counted from the star of the female, for compatibility. The longer 
the distance the better the compatibility. 


i). Rajju 

Arrange the stars in three columns as given below: 
I II il 
Aswini Bharani Krithika 
Aardra Mrugaseersha Roahini 
Punarvasu Pushya Aaslaesha 
Uthra 1 Poorvaphalguni Magha 
Hastha Chithra Swaathy 
Jyeashta Anuradha Visaakha 
Moola Poorvaashadha Utharaashadha 
Sathabhishak Sravishta Sravana 


Poorvaproashtapada Uthraprorshtapada Revathi 

The middle group, II, are the asterisms governed by Venus, 
Saturn and Mars. This column is the Madhyama-Rajju (middle- 
string). Generally if the asterisms of both the male and female fall 
in the same Rajju (String or Column) it is not considered to be de 
sirable. Particularly, when both the stars fall in the middle-string, 
the case has to be rejected. It is said to be forbidden account of 
Madhyama-Rajju-Doasha. However, as indicated by the arrows in 
the above table ifthe stars are differently oriented (one in Aaroahi 
or right headed and the other in Avaroahi or left headed rows) some 


Course in Astrology 333 
people accept the case, 


9.Vaedha 


Certain pair of stars are said to be in mutual vaedha and 
hence are not compatible. These are given below: 


Aswini and Jyeshta 
Bharani and Anuraadha 
Sravana and Aardra 
Visaakha . and Krithika 
Swaathi and Roahini 

Moola and Aaslaesha 
Magha and Revathi 

Pusya and Poorvashaadha 
Punarvasu * and Uthraashaadha 
Uthraproshatapada and Poorvapahlguni 
Hasta and Sathabhishak 
Poorvaproashtapada and Uthra 
Mrugasheersha, Chithraand Sravishta. 


All the above pairs and the last set of three are mutually in 
Vaedha. Thus a Visaakha male is in compatible with a Krithika 
female and vice versa. Mrigaseersha male is incompatible with both 
Chirthra-females and Sravishta female. etc. 

There is yet another Vaedha Known as Panchavarga Vaedha 


I II I. IV Vv 
Aswini Bharani Krithika , Rohini Mruga 
seersha 

Magha Poorva Uthra Hastha Chithre 
phalguni 

Moola Proov Uthrashadha Sravana Sravisht 
ashadha 

Aaslesha Pushya Punarvasu Aardra 

Jyueshta Anuradha Visakha Swathy 

Raevathy Uthrapro Poorvapro Sahthbhishak. 


shtapad ashtapada 

The male and female stars should not belong to the same set 
(Varga). 

Rajju and Vaedha are considered to be very powerful and 
should not be over looked at all, because these ‘doashaas’ are said to 
destroy all other compatibility. 

. Aekoapi doashoa Vaedhaakhyoa 

Gunaan hanthi bahoonapi, ,, ,..: a eee 

Thasmad-vivarjayaed-vaedham 

Madhyarajjuscha — thatthsama: 

* fJaathakaadesam:XIV 40] 


334 Course in Astrology 
Similarly counting from the Nakshathra-paada ofthe female, 
ifthe 88th one or 108th one it is to'be discarded. 


UNIT -.75 


10. Dasaasandhi 


The end of a Dasa and the beginning of the next Dasa is caDed 
Dasaasandhi. In each horoscope, one can easily calculate the dates 
for each Dasaasandhi from the date of birth and the balance of start- 
ing Dasa. Dasaasandhi in the female and male horoscopes must be 
well distanced by a minimum of about an year or more. Sometimes 
a six-month distance is said to be sufficient. 

Similarly the same Dasa should not be running in both the 
horoscopes in the same Period. This is known as 
Samadasaadoasham. 


11.Paapasaamya 


It is said that ifthere are maleficities in one horoscope, there 
should be an equivalent maleficity in the partner's horoscope, and 
then the maleficities are believed to be cancelled. Usually the 
maleficities causing harm to the spouse are taken into consideration. 

Thus a natural malefic inthe Ist, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th and 12th 
houses is treated as one unit of maleficity. A malefic in one of the 
above houses counted from the Ascendent one unit. A malefic im 
one ofthe above houses from the Moon-sign is given three-quarter 
(3\4) units of maleficity. Each malefic in the above houses counted 
from the Venus-Sign (Venus is the significator of marriage) is given 
half a unit of maleficity. On this rate the maleficity is estimated 
quantitatively for both horoscopes. The quantity of maleficity in 
one horoscope must be ¢ompensated by a similar one in the other 
horoscope. In other words, it is not enough that the total number of 
units of maleficity be equal. A malefic in the 8th and 7th house of 
the female is compensated by a malefic in the 7th house of the male. 
,The 8th house represents the Mangalyasthaana in female horoscope. 
Maleficity caused by Mars is usually treated as most important in 
horoscope matching. It requires extreme skill and knowledge for 
judging Paapasaamya. 

You are therefore advised to look up the details in the well- 
known books on matching before trying to practise the method. 


Course im Astrology : 335 
12.Divine Relation (Praaptham) 


There must be definite relations between the Moon-signs. 
Ascendants and the Venus signs of the two horoscopes; which agree 
with each other. Only such 'related' pairs of horoscopes must be 
recommended. Such relations when strong indicate high possibility 
of their union. 

The sign in which the 7th lord is posited, the sign in which 
the 7th lord is posited in the Navaamsa, the sign of exaltation or 
the sign of debilitation of the 7th lord, the sign in which Venus is 
posited, the 7th sign from the Venus sign, the sign in which Moon is 
posited in Dwadasaamsa and the 5th and 9th from it, ifone of the 
above signs in one horoscope becomes the Moon sign in the other it 
is auspicious and it is said that there is relation 

Similarly find the sum ofthe longitudes of the lord of Ascend- 
ent and of Venus and sum of the longitudes of Ascendant lord and 
ofthe lord of the 7th house. The stars corresponding to these sums 
or the star in which the 7th lord in posited or the star in which 
planets aspecting the seventh house are posited, would be the birth- 
star of the spouse. 

There are several indications hke these which reveal relation- 
ships. 

However, the Astrologer as well as the parents should keep 
in mind that even if there is no compatibility between the horo 
scopes judged from the routine dictums, the intelligent person should 
marry the girl with whom he isin love. The author of Prasnamaarga 
after describing 23 compatibilities and various ways of choosing a 
bride (or bridegroom) postulates thus: 

‘yvasyaam mana: samaasaktham 

Thaamaeva _ vivahaeth-budha: 


Sarvaanuguna bhamgaepi: 
Mancanugunathaadhikaa’. 
* {PrasnamaargceXXT, 67} 


(The wise man must marry the girl with whom he has fallen 
in leve, mental affinity is much more important, even when other 
compatibilities are not there). 

P.S*: What has been given in this unit is only a very general 
outline of ‘matching’. For better knowledge ofthe subject you are 
advised to refer to the authoritative works such as parsna Marga, 
Jaathakaadaesa, Bruhajjathaka, Phaladeepika etc.. 


336 Course in Astrology 


Muhoortha 


oe Unit 76 


We have heard the proverb, 'well begun is half done'. Yes a 
good and effective start is essential for the fruitfulness and success 
of any action. Astrologically, too this is true. Any action when done 
at the proper time becomes fruitful and when done in the wrong 
time would not be meeting .with success or would have to face hur- 
dies Therefore one must be able to prescribe the suitable 'time' for 
each action and it is called the Muhoortha 

Election of the proper Muhoortha is based upon the following 
guide lines. 

1.It should not be inauspicious generally. 

2.It should not be inauspicious with respect to the person con- 
cerned. 

3.It should be as far as possible auspicious and fruitful, 

Planetary positions would indicate the 'doashaas' (inauspi- 
cious) as well as the ‘gumaas’ (auspicious) of each period. 
Fundamentally, the time elected must be free from what are called 
Nithya -doashaas or general maleficities. 


Course in Astrology 337 


Some Inportant Nithya-Doashaas 


There are a very large number of tune doashaas described in 
classical works on Muthoortha, such as Maadhaveeyam, 
Mubcorthapadavi, Kaalaprakaasika, Bruhaddaivajnaranjanam, 
Prasnamaarga, Muhoorthaganapathi and others. In fact it is ex- 
tremely difficult to get a Muhoortha free from all defects. So in 
modern busy world, only the important doashaas are avoided, if'at 
all one decides to elect an auspicious time A few important time 
doashaas are described below in brief. 

a).Meteor, Earthquake, Comet : When a meteor falls on 
the earth or when and earthquake is felt or when a comet is seen 
rising three days from that time are forbidden for all auspicious 
functions. 

b). Eclipses : Three days from solar and lunar eclipses are to 
be avoided for auspicious functions. However, the daytime preced- 
ing a lunar eclipse need not be avoided. 

c).Gulikoadaya Raasi : Each day, as we have already 
learned, is divided into 12 signs according to the sign situated in 
the eastern horizon. We have also learned to calculate the rising 
moment of Gulika (Maandi). Ifthe rising time of Gulika (26th Ghati 
on Sunday day-time after Sunrise for a 30 Ghati-day and so on) fall 
ina particular sign, that has to be avoided. However, the period in 
the Gulika-sign after the rise may be accepted 

d).Moon in 6, 8,12: Those raasis of any day from which the 
Moon is posited in the 6th, 8th or 12th signs must be avoided. That 
is, the Moon should not be posited in 6th, 8th and 12th of the signs 
(Raasi) elected. 

e).Signs aspected, occupied or released hy malefics : In 
election of time, Kethu is ignored, Sun, Mars, Raahu and Saturn 
are treated as malefics. Some authorities treat weak Moon also a 
malefic. The sign (Raasi, Lagna) elected should not be aspected by 
malefics, should not be occupied by malefics and should not be just 


338. Course inAstrology 
crossed by malefics. When a malefic has transited a sign and until a 
benefic occupies that sign it is to be avoided. 

f) Sandhyaas : These are the junctions of periods such as 
between day and night, midday and midnight. It is usual to avoid 6 
Ghatis before Sunrise, two Ghatis after Sunset, and 10 Vighati at 
midday and midnight. 

g).Gandaantha: These are the junctions between three pairs 
of stars, Revathi-Aswini, Aaslaesha-Magha and Jyaeshta-Mocola. The 
last quarter (Paada) of Raevathi and the first quarter of Aswini is 
said to be the period of gandaantha. Similarly for the other pairs 
This is Nakshatra-gandaantha. There are other gandaanthaas also. 

h).Ushnasikha : In the duration of each star there are spe- 
cific periods designed as Ushnasikha and these are to be avoided. 
These periods are usually tabulated in Panchaangaas. 

1).Visha : Like Ushnasikha each star has a specific portion 
called Visha, which are also to be avoided. [Refer to some standard 
Panchaanga]. 

j).Sthira-Karanaas : Halfofa Thithiis called a Karana and 
there is a particular order in which the Karanaas change, depend- 
ing upon the Thithi and whether it is the first half or second half of 
the Thithi. From the second half of the Prathama (Prathipada) of 
the bright Paksha Karanaas are named repeatedly as Simha, 
Vyaaghra, Varaaha, Khara, Gaja, Surabhi and Vishti in cycles till 
the first half of Krishna-paksha-Chathur-dasi. So the above set of 
names repeat 8 times. These are called Chara-karanaas as they 
repeat during a lunar cycle. From the second half of Krishna= 
chathurdasi follow a set of 4 non-repeating Karanaas called Sthira- 
karanaas. These are in the order, Sakuni (a nocturnal bird), 
Chathushpaath (quadruped), Snake and worm (Kimshughna). 

The last four Karanaas are called Sthira-karnaas and are not 
auspicious. 

k). Vishti, Riktha, Ashtami: In the Karanaas Vishti must 
be avoided. 

Among the thithis, chathurthi, Navami and Chathurdasi are 
called 'Riktha' collectively and are not auspicious. 

Similarly Ashtami is said to be inauspicious. 

i).Laata, Vaidhrutha, Aekaargala, Saarpa-masthaka etc 
: These are all maleficities which are to be obtained by astrological 
Calculation and are usually given in Panchaangaas. 

m).Sign aspected by Venus : Though Venus is a benefic, 
the Raasi aspected by Venus is to be avoided. 


Course in Astrology 339 


UNIT -77 


In Pachaangaas usually auspicious Muthoorthas would be 
given for various functions. And these times would be free from the 
Nithyadoashaas. 

Baalaanna-varjya-thaaraas: These are the asterisms 
which are not suitable for the first rice-feeding of the child These 
are generally to be avoided for all auspicious functions. The forbid- 
den stars are given below: 

Jyaeshta, Aardra, Bharani, Krithika, Aaslaesha, Magha, Poor- 
vapbaiguni, Poorvaashaadha, Poorvaproasutapada, Visaakha, 
Moola. 

Thyaajyagana: According to Maadhaveeyam the following 
are to be avoided for a// auspicious functions. 

a). Baalaanna-Varjya stars as given above. . 

b).The dark fortnight (Krishna paksha) 

c).Chidra thithis-Chathurthi, Navami, Chathudasi, Shashti, 
Ashtami and dwaadasi. 

d).The weak-days of malefics (Sunday, Tuesday, Saturday) 

e).The signs of malefics 

f).The Kaala-hoaraas of malefics. 

1\12 ofa day or night is called a Kaala-hoara that is each hour 
(ofa 12 hour day or night) is a Kaala-hoara And each Kaala-hoara 
is ruled by one ofthe seven planets. The first hour ofany weak-day 
is ruled by the planet of that day. (Sun for Sunday, Moon for Mon- 
day and so on). The next hoara is ruled by the lord of the 6th day, 
the next hoara by the lord of the 6th day from the previous hoara 
lord's day and so on. At night the week-lord of the Sth weekday is 
the first lord. The order follows the cycle Sun, Venus, Mercury, 
Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus etc.. Note that the order 
is the same as the increasing order of speed from Saturn to Moon. 


Samkranthi(Samkramam): This is the time when the Sun 
transits from one sign to the next. The exact time of transit would 
be given in the Pachaangaas. Ifthe transit takes place at daytime 
that daytime is fully inauspicious and ifat. night the whole ofthat 
night. Usually, it is customary to avoid 1C Ghatis before and 16 
Ghatis after transit. 

Mruthyuyoaga and Dagdhayoaga : Certain asterisms 
when they fall ci certain week days cause Mrutlhyu Yoaga. Thus 
the asterism Magha with Sunday. Visaakha with Monday, Aardra 
with Tuesday. Moola with Wednesday cause Mrutyuyoga. Similarly 


340 Course in Astrology 
the thithis Dwaadasi, Aekaadesi, Panchami, Dwitheeya, Shashty, 
Ashtami and Nawami respectively combines with each week day 
from Sunday cause Dagdhayoaga. These are also to be avoided. 


Shad-doashaas : There is a set of six doashaascalled Shad- 
doashaas, which are also not desirable for auspicious functions. 

Karthrudoashaas r These are not general doashaas but in- 
auspicious for the person performing a function. These are not given 
in Panchaangaas as they cannot be given, for they vary from per- 
son to person. 

The main Karthru doashaas are: 

a). The 11th Nakshathrapaada from the paada in which one 
-is born. 

b). The 108th paada 

c). The sign 8th from the Moon-sign at birth of the person. 

d). The 3rd, 5th and the 7th stars from the birth-star-triads. 

e). The sign 8th from the Ascendant-sign at birth. 

There are several other doashaas which are described in 
Muthoortha-texts. Again there are several exceptions also (Apa- 
vaadai for each doasha. when the doaslia would not be harmful. 

The day and night are divided into 15 equal parts each of 
about 2 Ghatis duration. Each is called a Muhoortha and each 
Muhoortha is given a specific name. Certain Mnhoorthaas are to be 
avoided while certain others are said to be beneficial. Just hke the 
malefic yoagaas, there are benefic yoagaas like the Siddha yoaga 
and Amrutha yoaga. These are given in Panchangaas. 

To conclude this unit, itis desirable to remember that classi- 
cal authorities have described in detail the doashaas to be avoided 
for each auspicious function, like marriage, when one gets a com- 
pletely satisfactory time free from all maleficities. And certain 
Parihaaraas also have been suggested to ward off the evils caused 
by various Muhoortha-defects. For instance, in order to elect the 
Muhoortha for marriage the astrologers must consider the follow- 
ing: 

Krishnapaksha Ashtami and the stars Moola, Mrugaseersha, 
Roahini. Magha, Swaathy, Raevathy, Uthra, Anuraadha are suit- 
able for marriage, provided there are no Karthrudoashaas. The sign 
Maesha (Maesha-lagna). Moon in the lagna, Mars and Raahu in 
the 8tli, any planet in the 7th, the latter half of the month Meena, 
the months Kataka, Kanya, Kumbha, Dhanu the birth-star of the 


Course ur Astrology 34] 
bridegroom, the period when there is a planet transiting in the 7th 
from the Moon-sign of either the bride or the bridegroom etc. are to 
be avoided. There are a few more forbidden periods. The astrologer 
should carefully consider all these by reference to authoritative books 
and prescribe the proper Muhoortha. It is usual to select the 
Muhoorthaas given in Pachaangaas and then to avoid the time with 
Karthrudoashaas. Prescription of a Muhoortha is a difficult and 
important task for a real astrologer. 

What has been outlined in this unit is only a very elementary 
introduction to Muhoortha. You are advised to read important books 
on the subject, like Maadhaveeyam, Muhoorthapadavi and 
Kaaleprakeesike before prescribing a proper Muhoortha. 


Goachara [Transit] 


UNIT - 78 


This branch of Astrology is the prediction on the basis of the 
transits of the various planets in course of tune relative to the Moon- 
sign of the birth chart of each individual. As each planet transits 
each sign successively the native would have experiences according 
to the relative spacing between his native Moon-sign (ie. of the birth- 
chart) and the individual planets. In transit-analysis the positions 
of each planet is counted from the Maon sign of the birth chart. And 
any planet transiting the 11th sign would be benefical. Sun is fa- 
vourable when it transits the signs 3, 6 and 10 while Mars and 
Saturn would give favourable results while transiting the signs 3 
and 6. Moon favourable when transiting the signs 1, 3, 6, 7 and 10. 
Venus is favourable while transiting any sign other than 6, 7 and 
10. Transit of Jupiter through the signs 2, 5, 7, 9 and of Mercury 
through 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 are also favourable. However, this general 
rule is applicable only when other planets do not annul the effect by 
being in certain signs. This cancellation is known as Vaedha'. These 
general rules are consolidated in the sloka : 


342 


Course in Astrology 
Sarvae.laabha-gruhaystthithah; thr-kha-ripushvarkoa; 
asrug-aarkee thri-shat- 
Praapthow; thriyaadyakha manmatthaarishusasee, 
Khaasthiaart-varijyam Bhrugu: 
Dheedharmaastha dhanaeshu vaakpathi, rari- 
Swaashtaambukhastthoa Budha: 
Sraeshtoa janmagruhaad-hi-goacharyvidhowiddhoa na 
Chaeth syaath grahaw 
[Jaathakaadaesa XI] 
The effects of each planet in each sign from the radical Moor- 


sign has been described. These are given below: 


Sun 


(number denotes the houses) 

. Loss of wealth, travel, disease etc. 

. Loss of wealth 

. Honour, gain of wealth, description of enemies 
. Sorrows due to disease and enemies 
do 

. Same in 3 

Disease 

. Same in 

. Heavy sorrow 

10. Success and fruition of actions 

11. Same as 3 

12. Same as 1 


OendNNfowNe 


Moon 


1, Happiness 

. Loss of wealth 

. Success 

Fear 

Sorrow 

. Destruction of enemies 
Comfort 

Fear 

. Disease 

10 Gain ofthe desired 
11. Contentment due to kith and kin and gains 
12. Loss of everything. 


Ce NAAR Wh 


Course in Astrology ‘ 343 
Mars 


Same as that for Sunexcept in 10, 
where Mars foretells failure and futility of actions 


Mercury 


ae 


. Loss of wealth 

. Gain of wealth 

. Fear from enemy 

. Gain of wealth 

. Quarrel with wife, children etc. 
. Success 

. Quarrel 

. Gain ofwealth, children 

. Hindrances 

}O. Happiness 

11. Generally good experiences ee 
12. Fear from enemies and failure. 


WOontnunt WN 


Jupiter 


— 


. Sorrows of various origin 
Gain of wealth 

. Loss of position or shift of position 
. Sorrows frgm relatives 
Gain ofchild, wealth 

. Troubles from enemies 

. Great comforts. 

. Disease 

9. Gain of wealth and pleasure 
10. Loss of wealth 

11. Gain of position 

12. Great sorrow. 


SN NUR WY 


Venus 


1. Enjoyment of all sorts 
2. Gain of wealth 
3 Comfort, honour, prosperity 
4. Enhanced comfort, favour from relatives 
5. Gain of child 
6. Danger 

7. Insult and other difficulties from women 
8. Prosperity 

9. Gain of pleasure from women 


344 Course in Astrology 
10. Quarrel 
11. Prosperity 
12. Gain of wealth, dress 


Saturn 


. Sorrows due to diseases 

. Deterioration of comforts and wealth 
Gain of position, wealth and subordinates 
Harm to wife, relatives, wealth, comforts 
Loss of wealth, comforts 

. Destruction of enemies 

. Travel from native place 

.8. Heavy sorrows ere 

9. Disease, destruction to values, virtues. 

10. Poverty 

11 Gainof wealth 

12. Loss of wealth 

Generally when Sun, Mars, Jupiter or Saturn are transiting 
the native Moon-sign or the 12 th of the Moon-sign or its 8th, there 
would be loss of wealth, travel diseases and even, fear of hfe. 

It is stated that if any transiting planet is unfavourable, 
transiting the evil effects can be warded off by Poojas and other 
functions. 

For each planet there are certain signs (counted from the na- 
tive Moon-sign) which are favourable and for each such favourable 
position (Called Goachara-sthaana) there is a corresponding anti- 
position called Vaedha-sthaana. Ifa planet is transiting a Goachara- 
sthaana it indicates benefic effects onlyif the corresponding Vaedha- 
sthaana is unoccupied. When it is occupied the beneficial planet is 
said to be under ‘check’ or Vaedha. So also a planet indicates unfa- 
vourable results when it transits a Vaedha-sthaana, but if the cor- 
responding indicates unfavourable results when it transits a Vaedha- 
sthaana, but if the corresponding Goachara-sthaana is occupied by 
another planet the evil effects are checked, and benefical effects 
may be obtained, as if the planet were in Goachara. 

The Goachara and Vaedha position for each planet are tabu- 
lated below; 


YAWARWNHE 


. Table ofthe Gochara and Veadha position for each planet 


Sun Gochara 11 . § 10 6 

Vaedha 5 . 9 4 12 
Moon Gochara_ 7 1 6. 11 10 3 
Vaedha 2 5 12 8 4 g 
Mars Gochara 3 11 6 = Z 

“Vaedha 12 3 9 | 
‘Mercury Gochara 2 4 6. 8 10 11 
| Vaedha 5 3 9 1 8 12 
Jupiter .Gochara 2 11 9 5 7 

Vaedha 12 8 10 4 3 
Venus Gochara_ 1 2 3° 4 5 8 9 12 #211 
| Vaedha 8 7 1 10 9 5 11 6 3 
Saturn Gochara 3 | 11 6 - | 

Vaedha 12. 5 9 


Note: There is no Vaedha between Su and Saturn and between Moon and Mercury 


A course in Astrology 


346 Course incistrofory 


Introduction to Prasna 
(Horary Astrology) 


UNIT-79 


Prasna is an advanced branch of astrology and it is to be 
learned only after mastering all the other branches. ‘Prasna’ is re- 
ally delving into the depths of unknown with the aid of astrological 
rules and indications. It is a technique similar to criminal investi- 
gation and therefore requires utmost skill as well as knowledge, 
along with divine intuition. Prasna means a 'question' regarding a 
problem. The astrologer the Daivajna or diviner is to give the an- 
swer to the ‘question’ raised by the 'customer. In fact the ‘Prasna’ 
may be anything such as, ‘what has happened to the absconded 
person’ ?, 'was an article lost or missing so when '.?, 'would 1 get a 
promotion ? If so when' ?, 'Why am I meeting with several difficul- 
ties '? 'What is the history of this temple' ? and so on. The Daivajna 
should provide the correct answer to the question, whatever it may 
be. 


Perhaps the inost useful and complete work on Prasna is 
'Prasna-Maarga' the well known astrological treatise written by a 
Keralite author. Equally famous books are Prasnaanushtaana 
Padhathi by an unknown author and edited by Prof.N.E. 
Muthuswami. 'Prasna-Tantra' by Neelakanta Kaivajna 'Prasna- 
jnana’ by Pruthuyasas, Bhattoathpala and Shatpanchaa sika by son 
of Varaahamihira. Many other works are also there in Prasna. 

Any one cannot be called a Daivajna. 

‘Tyothissasthra vidagdhoa 

Ganithapatur-vruththavaamscha sathya-vachaa: 

Vinayee  Vaedaadyaayee 

Grahayajanapatuscha bhavathu Daivajna:. 

This is how Prasna Marrga defines a diviner (1 15). Daivajna 
should be and expert in astrology and should be very good in ealenu- 


Course in Astrology 347 
lation. He shouldbe of clean habits. and must be truthful; he should 
be humble and should be refreshing the Vaedaas which he learned. 
He must also be worshipping the planets. Only such a person can 
be called a Daivanja. The prediciton of such a person would never 
be false. Prasnamaarga says (1. 17): 

Dasabhaedam Grahaganitham 

Jaathakam-avaloakya niravasaesham-apim ya: 

Kathayathi subham-asubhanvaa 

Thasya na mitthyaa bhavaeth Vaanee. 

The Daivajna must be well versed in all the Astrological 
calculations and must be capable of understanding the indications 
of the celestial objects. In the 29th stanza of the chapter I it is said 
that the Daivajna who can recite the sole of Bruhajjathaka of 
Varahamihira and can reeall spontaneously any portion of this 
splendid work and he who has thoroughly learned 'Krishneeya', 
would be honoured as a ‘Daivajna’ in any situation. All these un- 
derline the importance of bath theoretical and practical knowledge 
of all the aspects of astrology and of a clean and ideal life for a 
Daivajna. In other words, to be a Daivajna who can correctly han- 
dle, 'prasna', is the highest attainment. 


Judgment.of Horoscope 


UNIT - 80 


In the former units we have learnt how to find out the longi- 
tude of grahas and Bhavas. In the following units we are giving the 
basic principles of the Judgement of horoscopes which is the most 
difficult and at the same time the wonderful thrilling and stunning 
experience of Astrology. By practising this you can make near zero 
error accurate predictions and also disarm the antagonists of As 
trology. 


While taking a horoscope for analysis andjudgement you Have 


348 Course in Astrology 
to make sure that the horoscope is complete in.the following as- 
pects. 

1. Date, Time and Place of Birth. 

2. The Balance Nakshathra Dasa. 

3. The Positions of Grahas. 

4. The Longitudes of Grahas and Bhavas or at Least. Lagna 
sphuta and Navaamsa. 

5. The position of Maandi. 

An example is give below. It can be seen that longitudes of 
Grahaas and Bhavaas (house also) are given here. the Bhavas are 


vit 11-553 IX 12-32:36 Xl 1142.21 
Ketho 10-43-06 ; Moan 624-0 


XH 10-35-46 


Ven 646-4? 
Ase 10-31-48 


Sun 7-68.25 
Y 11-42-21 WV 12-43-34 Il 2-32.38 Rahu 10-43-00 
Sat 7-31-26 dup 450-4 Mer 13-41-49 
: ; Par 19-11-45 
11-5-53 . 


Course in Astrology 849 
marked in roman figures like I, II, III etc. 

On a close analysis the length of the Bhavas can be found 
out. And it can be realised that. 

1. All the Bhavas are not of equal length, while some are be- 
low 30 some others are 30 and others are above 30 . 

2. The following pairs of Bhavas are ofequallength. 1-7, 2-8, 
3-9, 4-10, 5-11, 6-12. 

3. Some Bhavas occupy two. signs. . 

4. Two Bhavas occupy the same sign. 


UNIT -81. 


The following two tables will give an idea about the duration 
of Bhavas, their position in each rasi the starting point and end 
point. Table 2 gives the position of the planets in each Bhava and 
Rasi. Table 3 gives the general longitudes of signs and the stars 
positioned in each sign. Table 4 gives the relation of the stars, their 
lords and the position of Bhavas and planets in each star on the 
basis of longitude. This will appear as a tedious process, but you 
have to take it easy because by practising a few horoscopes you will 
master this technique. So don't get bored. 


No Beginning Ending Total 

of the longitude and sign longitude and 
sign duration 

House of the house of the house of the house 
1 Fronf Simhal0-31-46 To Kan 11-05-53 30"- 34' 07" 

2 Kanya II"-05-53 Tul 12-32-36 31"- 26' 43" 

3 Tula 12-32-36 Vrus 12-48-34 30”. 15' 58" 

4 Vris 12--48-34 Dhan 11-42-41 29". 54° 07" 

5 Dha 11-42-41 Maka 10-35-16 28". 52 35 

6 Maka 10-35-16 Kuma 10-31-46 .29"- 56' 30" 
7 Kum 10-3-14-6 Meen 11-05-53. 30"- 34°07" 

8 Meen 11-05-53 Maes 12-26-22 31"- 26' 43" 
9 Maes 12-26-22 Vrus 12-48-34 30"- 15/ 50" 
10 Vrus 12-48-36 Midh 11-42-41 29"- 54°07" 
11 Midh 11-42-46 Rata 10-3516 28°. 52' 35" 
12 Rata 10-35-16 Simh 10-31-46 29°- 56' 30" 


Please Note that: 


1. All Bhavaas are not of 30 degrees as has been conceived 
generally. They are of varying degrees. 
2. Some are above 30 degrees and some are below. 30 degrees. 
3: The length of the following pairs of Bhavas ure the same. 
1-7,.2-8, 3-9, 4-10. 5-11, 6-12. 


350 Course in Astrology 

Now let us analyse the longitudes of the planets and find out 
in which Bhavas (houses) each planet is posited. Here also please 
note that though planet may be posited in one Rasi (sign) it will not 
be in the two Bhavas occupying the same Raasi. Peruse the follow- 
ing table (Horoscope is given ovarlier). 


Planet Longitude No. of House> The sign where 
(Bhava) where the the planet 
planet is is posited 
posited 
Ravi 07-56-25 01 Kanya. 
Chan 06-24-00 10 Midhuna 
Kuja 19-11-45 02 Kanya 
Budh 13-41-43 02 Kanya 
Guru 04-58-04 03 Vruschika 
Sukr 06-46-47 12 Simha 
Sani 07-35-25 04 Dhanu 
Rahu 10-43-08 01 Kanya 
Ketu 10-43-08 07 Meena 
Legn 10-31-46 x Simha 


Here please note the difference of the position of planets and 
compare and" contrast with the positions in horoscopes where the 
longitudes and cusps‘ofplanets and Bhavaas are not usually given. 
So without longitude considering the Simba Raasi as Lagna the 
wrong conclusion one will make from the above horoscope will be as 
follows. 


Sun in 2nd house Venus in Ist house 
Moon in 11th house Saturn in 5th house 
Murs in 2nd house Rahu in 2nd house 
Jupiter in 4th house Kethu in 8th house. 


It need not be said that the judgment is sure to err on the 
basis of the above misconceived relation between the planet and 
the houses. 


UNIT -. 82 


Now we have to find the relation of the planets and houses 
between the Stars that is in which star the planets and Bhavaas 
are posited. This can be found out from the longitudes of the plan- 
ets and Bhavaas given in the horoscope. 

The following is a general table with the help of which you 
can find out the longitude of each star and its lord in the natural 
zodiac and this will help to locate the position of each planet and 
Bhava on the basic of their longitude in each horoscope. The name 
of the star lord is given in the bracket. 


Raasi, stars in each Raasi, Star Lords, Star lon#itudes. 


2 
Revathy 
(Mercury) 
16'40'-30° 
Uthrabhadra 
(Saturn 
3°20'-16°40' 


Poorvbabhadra.4 


(Jupiter) 
0°-3°20' 


11 


Poorvabhadra v4 


(Jupiter) 
20°-30" 
Sathabhishak 
(Rahu) 
6°40'-20° 
Sravishta 
(Mars) 


Sravishta 
(Mars) 
23°20'-30° 
Sravana 
(Moon) 
10°-23°20'e 
Uthrada wu 
(Sun) 
0°-10° 


9 

Moo la 

(Meth u) 
0"-13°20' 
Poorada 
(Venus) 
13°20'-26°40' 
Uthrada '/4 
(Sun) 
26°40'-30° 


1 

Aswathi 
(Kethu) 
0°-13'20' 
Bharani 
(Venus) 
13°20'-26°40' 
Karthika vs 
(Sun) 
26°40'-30° 


8 

Visakha '/4 
(Jupiter) 
0°-3°20' 
Anuradha 
(Saturn) 
3°20'-16°40' 
Jyeshta 


(Mercury) 
16°40'-30° 


2 

Karthika % 
(Sun) 

0°-10° 
Rohini 
(Moon) 
10°-23°20' 
Mrigseersha 
(Mars) 
23°920'-30° 


7 

Chitra '/ 
(Mars) 
0°-6°40' 
Swathi 
(Rahu) 
6°40'-20° 
Visakha '/4 
(Jupiter) 
20°-30° 


3 
Mrigseersha 


3°20'-16°40' 
Aslesha 
(Mercury) 
16°40'-30° 


Maka 
(Kethu) 
0°-13'20' 
Poorva 
(Venus) 
13°20-26°40' 
Uthra v4 
(Sun) 
26°40'-30 


6 
Uthra % 


(Sun) 
0°-10° 
Hastha 
(Moon) 
10°-23°20' 
Chitra 
(Mars) 
23°20'-30° 


On the basis of the above table the learner may prepare a 
'table indicating the mutual relations of the Bhavas stars and star- 


lords in the example Horoscope and compare their table with the 
following table. 


House No __Longi- Rasi Bhava Star planets planets 
tude lord in whichposited aspecting 
Lordof bhava _ inthe the 
Rasiin posited bhava bhava 
which 
posited 
1.10-31-46 Simha Sun Maka Kotu Sn, Rah - 
2.11:05-53 Kanva Mor Ilaota Moon Mor, Mar Sat 
3.12-32-36 Tula VEn Swat hi Rahn Jupi - 
4.12-48-34 Vris Mars AnuralhaSat Saturn 
5.11-42-21 Dhanu Jup MoolIn = Ket - Mn 
6.10-35-16 Makar Sat Sravana Moon 
7.10-31-46 Kum Sat SathahhiRahu Kethu Sat, Ven 
8.11-05-5? Meen Jup Uthara Sat Sn, Mar 
Rho Ire 
9,12-32-36 Maes Mars Aswathi Ket - Mar 
10.12-48-34 Vrush Ven Rohl Moon Moon - 
11.11-42-21 Midh Mor Arra Rahu - Sat 
12.10-35-16 Kata Moon Push'n Sat Vou Jup 


The leaners are advised to prepare tables like this for a few 
more horoscopes. 


First Steps of Judgment, 
Interprtation and Prediction 


UNIT - 83 


As you already know the only available tool with the 


Astrologer facilitating prediction is A piece of paper where the 


positions of the planets and Bhavaas are marked from which the 
Astrologer 


Course in Astrology 353 
will have to construct a big edifice, ie. the past, present and future 
experiences of the inquisitive, at the same time very critical client. 
In case the Astrologer goes astray the client will the sole science of 
Astrology as superstition or pseudo science. So the Astrologer will 
have to handle the case most cautiously and carefully. 

Usually the planets indicate the results. 

LAccording to their connection with the house -Viz as lords, 
occupant, aspectors, lords of starsoccupied by the Bhavas and plan- 
ets. 

2.According to their Karakathva (signification) 

The behaviour of conferring the results by the planets will be 
sometimes favourable (benefic) and at other times unfavourable (ma- 
lefic). This benefic or malefic nature of the planets is to be decided 
in two ways: 

1. By the natural beneficity and natural maleficity. 

2: By the position of the planets in each horoscope. 


Natural Benefic Planets 


1.Among the planets the Jupiter and Venus are considered 
the most natural benefic (Naisargika Subhagraha) planets. But these 
shubhagrahas also behave as malefics (Papas) when they are badly 
placed in the Horoscope which will be explained later. 

2.The Moon is benefic from the &th day of Suklapaksha till 
the 7th day of Krishnapaksha. 

3.The Mercury is considered benefic when in the horoscope 
he is in association with benefics and is considered malefic when he 
is in association with malefics. 

4.The Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu, Kethu, weak Moon and ma- 
lefic associated Mercury are natural malefics (Papas). These natu- 
ral malefics also become benefics according to their position in each 
horoscope. 

This is the starting point of prediction. When a planet is ben- 
efic for a native he gives good results of the bhavas (in a horoscope) 
in which the planet is posited, of which he is the lord, and which 
bhava is aspected by him. 

On the other hand the malefic planet confers the’ bad results 
of the bhavas on which he is posited, of which he is the lord and 
which bhava he aspects 

The following planetary positions may be ,-rused. 


354 Course in Astrology 


Asc.Mer 
Jupiter 


Here the Lagna (Ascendant) Falls in Kataka (cancer) in which 
two benefic planets (natural benefics) are posited. Further two natu- 
ral benefic planets Venus and Moon are aspecting also the ascend- 
ent (here since the Moon is away from Sun he is natural _benefic). 
Further the natural malefic planets like Ravi, Mars, Saturn, Rahu, 
Kethu are not aspecting Lagna. So it is to be safely adjudged that 
the experiences indicated by lagna will be good for the native and 
these good experience will be experienced during the periods and 
subperiods (Dasa and Apahara) of the plauets connected with the 
Lagna Bhava -in this horoscope- Mercury, Jupiter, Venus & Moon. 

Had the lagna (ascendant) been associated with or aspected 
by some malefic planets the native would have had bad aspects of 
the experiences assigned to ascendant (please refer to the former 
units). 

To facilitate Systematic comprehension the basic principles of 
judgment of Horoscope are enumerated as follows. 

Natural benefic planets Viz. Guru, Sukra and benefic associ- 
ated Budha and strong Moon during their periods and sub periods 
confer good results on the Native of relevant Bhavas, (Houses) (in 
the Horoscope) in which they are posited of which they are the lords 
and that bhava (house) which is aspected by them. 

2. Natural malefics Viz, Sun, Mars Saturn, Rahu, Kethu, weak 
Moon and malefic associated Mercury confer bad results of those 
bhavas in which they are posited, of which they are the lords and 
which is aspected by them. 

3.In short the experience for the native ofa particular bhava 
in his horoscope -say 4th bhava which indicates mother, education, 
house, vehicle, mental peace etc.- will be pleasant ifthe 4th Bhava 
is occupied, owned or aspected by a natural benefic. 

4.0n the contrary, in a horoscope, if 4th house is occupied 


Course in Astrology 355 
owned or aspected by a natural benefic planet the native will expe- 
rience bad results in the spheres of mother, education vehicle, men- 
tal peace, house etc. 


Lords of houses 


UNIT - 84 


Planets conferring or indicating experiences as Lords of 
Houses Rules regarding. 

5.The planets owning the ascendant (lagnaadhipathi) whether 
natural malefic or benefic will always. confer favourable results of 
his significations. 

6.The Lords of Trines (5-9) (Thrikonadhipahti) whether a ben- 
efic or malefic will confer good results. 

7.The benefic lords of the quadrant houses 4, 7, 10 (Kendra) 
will not confer good results (some opine that they confer bad re- 
sults). 

8.The malefic lords of the quadrant houses (4, 7, 10) will not 
confer bad results (some hold the view that they confer good re- 
sults). 

9.The lords of the houses 3, 6, 11.conferbad results. 

10.Thelord of the 8th house always confers bad results (Sun 
and Moon are the exceptions to this rule). The Saturn in the case of 
longevity indicated by the 8th house will not affect longevity. The 
Mars for Maesha ascendant as lord of 8th house and the Venus for 
Tula Ascendant as lord of 8th house will not affect the 8th house. 

11.Generally the lords of the houses 2 and 12 are neutral. 
But if they have the lordship of another bad house say. 3, 6, 8, 11 or 
in the company of the lords 2, 6, 8, 12 they give bad results. 

12.Good results can be. expected if: 

The lords of trine and quadrant exchange houses. 

The lords of trine and quadrant occupy either house. 

Either of the lords of the Trine or quadrant occupy either of 
the houses or be aspected by one. 

Both the lords of the Trine and quadrant have mutual aspect, 

The results due to occupation and aspect of the planets 


356 Course in Astrology 

Ifa natural benefic occupies or aspects a Bhava (house) good 
results ofthat Bhaava will be experienced during the period ofthat 
planet. 

Ifa natural malefic occupies or aspects a Bhaava bad effects 
of that Bhaava will be experienced. 

Ifa planet happens to be the lord ofboth the trine and quad- 
rant and occupies a trine or quadrant house he will confer good 
results of those Bhaavas (houses), 


= 


> 


KS 


Mars 


hal Lo 4 
Jupiter Satum 
Mans Mercury 


Here for Taurus ascendant Saturn is the lord oftrine (9) and 
quadrant (10). Ifhe combines with another trine lord (5) Mercury. 
he will confer good results. The case ofJupiter and Mars for cancer 
ascendant is also is the same. 


UNIT - 85 


The lords of trines and quadrants will get associated in the 
following ways, ie. as lords of 1-4, 1-7, 1-10, 5-4, 5-7, 5-9. 5-10, 9-4, 
9-7, 9-10, 1-9, 1-5, 4-7, 4-10, 7-10. 

The following lagnas are having the planets mentioned against 
as trine-quadrant lords. 


Mesha- nil 

Vrush- Sat (9,100 
Mithu- Mercury (1,-l) 
Kata- Mars (5.10) 
Simh- Mars(4,9) 
Kanya- Mercury (1,10) 
Tula- Sat (4,5) 
Dhan- . Jup (1-4) 
Maka- Ven(5-10) 


Kum- Veh (9-4) 


Course in Astrology 357 
Meen- Jup (1-10). 

16 Rahu and Kethu are natural malefics But they usually 
behave as agents of 

a). The lord of the sign they occupy, ie. ifthe lord is benefic 
they will give good result of that Bhava and ifthe lord is malefic 
they give bad results. 

b).If the Rahu and Kethu are aspected by bad planets they 
confer bad results and vice versa. 

c).If they are associated with malefic planets they give bad 
results and vice versa. 

On this basis if Rahu and Kethu occupy Trine they are ben- 
efic, if occupy, 3, 6, 8, 11 malefics and ifoccupy 2, 7 marakas. 

d).IfRahu or Kethu occupy a Trine or a quadrant and associ- 
ate with the lords of a Trine or quadrant they confer good results 


In this case Rahu occupies the 8th house whichis a bad house. 
Further he occupies the 6th house from the lord of the 8th house 
(Sani). so he. will act as the agent ofthe lord of 8th (longevity) and 
inflict bad result of the 8th bhava, (death or agony tantamount to 
death). 

17.Ifa house (Bhaava) is occupied by the lords of the houses 
6, 8, 12 the bad effects of that Bhaava will be experienced during 
the periods and sub periods (Dasa and Apahara) of that planet. 

18.Ifin a horoscope a planet occupies the houses 6, 8, 12 that 
planet loses its beneficity and the house owned by that planet and 
the planets associated with it and their houses and the houses 
aspected by that planet lose their strength and only bad results are 
to be experienced. 


Satum  [ Mson 
Jupiter 


In the horoscope Mars the lord of the 6th occupies the 4th 
house and aspects the 10th and llthhouses. Saturn the lord of the 
8th house, ascendant and 4th house. The lord of 12th Venus occu- 
pies the 2nd house and aspects the 8th house. Further Jupiter and 
Moon occupy the 6th house and aspect the 12th house and the Sun 
and Mercury occupying it. So the results will be: 

a). During the period of Mars the native will have experience 
in the spheres of 6th house-service, diseases, enemies, quarrels, 
debts, thieves, fire, blames, griefs, loss of honour, urinary diseases 
etc. 

b).The spheres of 4th house also will-be badly affected during 
the periods of Mars Viz, Mother, house, vehicles, mental peace, edu- 
cation, relatives, house, nephew, maternal uncle, false allegations, 
mothey's relatives, savings, residence etc. 

c) The position ofthe Mars will affect the features ofthe 10th 
and 11thhouses, Viz, profession, fame, position, father's experiences, 
knees, things, news from distant places, business, deposit, gains, 
elder brother or sister, worship of deities, ornaments fortune, gains 
through education etc. 

d}.5o also during the period and sub period of Saturn the fea- 
tures of the 8th, 7th, 9th and 4th houses will be affected like (8th 
house) disputes, defeat, death, wounds, urinary disorders, griefwith 
wife, fall from height, accidents, expenditure, loss of limbs. impris- 
onment, theft, mental distress etc. 

9th house :- father, foreign travels, penance, exertion for learn- 
ing, conveyance, paternal wealth, fortune, poorvapunya etc. 

7th house :- Marriage, enmity with partner, break of journey, 
private organ, destruction of power, business partner. 

e).So also the position of Venus badly influences the experienc- 
es connected with the 2nd and 8th Bhaava. 

f).The same evil nature will afflict the 6th and 12th houses 
also. 


Course in Astrology 359 
In the light of the above the preliminary decisions to be made 
about the behaviour of planets in the horoscope are as follows 
i).The natural benefic and malefic planets for the native. 

ii). Beneiics and maleficss by Lordship. 

iii).the benefics and malefics by. occupation. 

iv). The lord of the ascendant, his occupation,’ his second lord- 
ship, the houses and planets aspected by him, the houses owned by 
the planets aspected by the lagna lord, the planet in association 
with Lagna lord and the houses owned by that planet. 

v).the planet having the lordship of trine and quadrant and its 
position or exchange of houses. 

vi). the planets having connection with 3, 6, 8 12 by lordship, 
occupation, debilitation, in its own house, or in enemy's house. 
h).The bhavaas connected with each planet. 

i). The planets connected with each planet. 

The following table will help you to fmd out quickly the favour- 
able, unfavourable, yogakaraka and Maraka (inflicting pains or 
death) for each Lagna. 


Ascendent Benefic 


Malefic Yogakara Maaraka 
Musha Ju), Sun Sat, Mer, von = Venus 
Vrus ha Sat, Sun Jup, Von, Moo Sat Jup, Vert, Moo 
Midhu Von Mar, Jup, Sun, Mer ~~ Sat, Mar, Jup, 

Sun. Mer 

Katrrka . Mar, Jup Von, Mer Mar Sun, Mer, Ven 
Simha Mar Mer, Ven - Mets 
Kanya Venus Mars, Jup, Moo Veil, Mor Mar, Jup, Moo 
Tulsa Sat, Mer  Jup, Pirvi, Mar Mou,Mer Mer,Jup, Sun, 
Virus Moo Mer, Mar, ven . sun, Moo Mer, Mar, Ven. 
Dhanu Mar, Sun Ven Sun, Mar Sat, Ven 
Makar Ven, Mer Mar, Jup, Moo Venu Mar, Jup, Moo 
Kumba Venus. Jup, Moo, Mar Venus Moo, Jup, Mar 
Meena Mars, Moo Sat, Ven, Sun, Mer Mar, Jup Sat, Ven, Sun, 


Mer 


360 Course in Astrology 


Judgement of Houses 


UNIT- 8G 


In the process of judgment of horoscope, after evaluating the 
planets, next phase is the evaluation of Bhavas which is being dis- 
cussed in this unit. 

Usually people approach the astrologer to know something 
about their future. Some may inquire about the prospects of em- 
ployment and some other may inquire about marriage. A 3rd man 
may ask about the welfare of his parents An educated youth may 
be anxious to know about his foreign travel. But non of the above 
will approach the Astrologer by saying that he wants to know about 
2nd Bhava or 6th Bhava. It is the duty of the Astrologer to deci- 
pher the inquired item into the particular bhava of the Horoscope. 
If the client wants to know about the life partner it must be deci- 
phered as 7th Bhava. So the query about employment or disease 
should be deciphered as 10th.Bhava or 6th Bhava respectively. So. 
the Astrologer must be able to decipher the topic of queries into 
bhavas and then Judge them. After deciphering the query into Bhava 
the Astrologer should evaluate the Bhava its lord and its significa- 
tor and proclaim the result. In the evaluation of Bhavas the follow- 
ing rules may be applied. 


19. What Bhava in the Horoscope comprises the topic of the 
query. 

20. In the horoscope who is the lord of that Bhava, which 
planets are occupying that Bhava and which are aspecting it whether 
any friendly planet or enemy planet occupies the Bhava the Bhava 
lord is posited in Uchcha, Neecha, Swakshethra, enemy's house or 
friends house. 

21.Is the Bhava strong and experiencable. 

22. Are the ascendant lord and the Bhava lord associated and 
if so how ? 


Course in Astrology 361 

23. Is the Bhava lord connected in anyway with the houses 6, 
8, 12 or theirlords (connection means occupation, association, as- 
pect, exchange, occupying the trine or quadrant). 

24. Which planet is the significator of that Bhava. Has he got 
enough strength ''Where is he posited, inhis exaltation, own house, 
debditation, enemy's house. Has the planet any connection with 6, 
8, 12 houses. Is he in between two malefic planets. Is he in conjunc- 
tion with sun (Mauddhya). 

25. Whether there is any connection between the lords of the 
Bhava to be judged and the ascendant. 

26. Whether the period (Dasa) ofthe planet who is the lord of 
the particular Bhava will be experienced in the near future. When 
wilJ the period and sub period be experienced. Regarding the expe- 
rience or fruition of the Bhava to be evaluated the following rules 
are to be studied well. 

27 .Ifbenefic planets occupy or aspect a house (Bhava) that 
Bhava will fructify. 

27. Ifbenefic planets are in association with the lord ofa par- 
ticular house that house effect will fructify. 

29.If benefics aspect a house it will fructify. 

30.If the lord of a Bhava occupies the house it will fructify. 

31.1fthe lord ofa Bhava aspects that Bhava it will fructify. 

32. The house occupied or aspected by the lord of Lagna will 
fructify. 

33.The house owned by the lord who is in association with 
the ascendant lord will fructify. 


362 Course in Astrology 
UNIT 87 


Here the 8th Bhava is very strong because Venus who is a 
natural benefic and. who is the.lord ofthe Sth occupies the 8th house. 
So alse the 10th house where the benefic planets Jupiter and Mer- 
cury occupy is strong. Further 8,11, houses get the good aspects of 
the lords of § and 10. So these bhavas can be considered strong. 

In the 10th house Sun, Jupiter, Mercury are associated. Mer- 
cury is the lord of trine and Sun of a quadrant. The Lagna lord 
Venus is aspected by Saturn who is the lord ofa trine and quad- 
rant. This makes the ascendant very strong 

In this way the bhavas of asceudant 4, 6, 9, 10 are strong in 
this horoscope. 

In this horoscope no lord occupies his own Bhava. 

The 4th Bhava gets the aspect ofits lord. The.lord of the 12th 
house aspects the 12th house. 

The Sth house is occupied by the ascendent lord. So it will be 
strong. 

No planet is associated with the lord ofthe ascendant. 

Further Rules 

34.1? the lord of the Bhava occupies the trine or quadrant 
from that bhava the bhava will be strengthened. 

36.Ifthe lord or significator of a Bhava is exalted, or posited 
in his own sign the Bhava will fructify. 

36.1fa house is neither occupied nor aspected by a malefic 
that house will fructify. 

37.]fmalefics are on both sides of a Bhava it will be ruined, 

38.On the contrary if benefics are on both sides it will flour- 


datum Str Mars 
_| Jupiter 
As¢ 
Mercury 


Course in Astrology 363 
ish. ' 

39.Ifbenefics occupy the trine or quadrant ofa house and the 
malefics occupy the 3rd 6th and 11th of the house that house will 
flourish. 

40.Jfthe lord of the 9th house associates with a house it will 
flourish. 

41.Ifmalefics occupy or aspect a house it will be ruined. 

42. Iflord of a house is associated or aspected by a malefic that 
house is ruined. 

43.1f the Bhava-lord does not occupy or aspect the Bhava, it 
will not fructify. 

44.Jfthe Bhava-lord occupies the enemy house or aspected by 
the enemy planet the house will lose its. strength. 


UNIT - gg 


In this horoscope let us’analyse the relation of the Bhavas 
with friend and foe planets. 

1. Moon the ascendant lord has no enemy. 

2. Mars the lord of 5, 10 occupies the sign of enemy viz Mer- 
cury. 

3. Mercury the lord of 3, 12 occupies the sign of enemy Moon 

4,Jupiter the lord of 6, 9, occupies the sign of Venus an en- 


emy. 


S.Venus the lord of 4, 11 occu- 
pies the sign of enemy the Sun. 

6.Satrun the lord of 7, 8 occu- 
pies the sign of Kuja an enemy. 

7.Sun the lord of 2, occupies the 
sign of Venus an enemy. 

So it can be seen that because 
of the occupation of the enemy's house 
by the lord ofthe Bhava , the Bhavas, 
5, 10, 03, 12, 06, 09, 04, 11, 07, 08 will 
lose their strength. That is during the 
periods and sub periods (Dasa and 
apahara) of the above planets the bad 
effects of the above Bhavas will be 


Sun’ Mercury - 
Satum =| Mars: 


experienced. 
So also the following positions of planets are in the house of 


enemy. And so these Bhavas also will not fructify. 
Sun Posited in 11 the house enemy owned 


364 Course in Astrology 


Moon Posited in 3rd house enemy owned 
Mars Posited in 12th house enemy owned 
Jupiter Posited in 11th bouse enemy owned 
Vv ous Posited in 2nd house enemy owned 
Saturn Posited in 10th house enemy owned 
Mercury posited in Ist house enemy owned 


So the bad effects of the above Bhavas will be experienced 
during the period ofthe above planets. 

45.The planet if turns to be fallen (neecha) or eclipsed 
(Maudhya) the Bhava owned by that planet will lose its strength 

46. Ifa Bhavaor lord of the Bhava is connected with the bhavas 
6, 8, 12 orthe lords of 6, 8, 12 it will lose its strength. 

\ANAAAN\ Add. Chart. \\\Part. V.Page- 175 \\\\AAA\WAA\ 

In this example Budha is associated with Mars who is the 
lord of 6th Bhava. So the Lagna and 4th Bhava lose their strength 

Saturn the lord of 8 is associated with Sun the lord of 3rd 
Bhava. 

Moon the lord of 2nd is associated with Sun the lord of 3rd 
Bhava. 

Moon the lord of 2nd is associated with Venus the lord of 12 
So here the ascendant, 4th, 3rd and 2nd Bhavas are not strong 
enough. 

48 A Bhava could be experienced by the native only when 
the lord of Lagna occupies or aspects that Bhava, or occupies the 
trine or quadrant of that Bhava, or the Bhava lord occupies the 
Bhava, or the Bhava lord occupies the trine or quadrant house from 
that Bhava. 

49.A Bhava could be experienced only when the Bhavakaraka 
planet occupies the Lagna or aspects the Lagna or associates or 
exchange position with the Lagna lord. 


Course in Astrology 


65 


Ase ° 


Le we 


Judging Houses 


UNIT - 89 


50. When a planet has the lordship of two Bhavas which bhava - 
result will be conferred ? Ifthe ascendent-lord has the lordship of 
one good Bhava and one bad Bhava he will confer the results of 
good Bhava only. 

Here the Mars has the lordship of the evil 6th house also 
Since he occupies the 5th Bhava a doubt can be raised that will he 
not affect the Santhaaana Bhava. Here being the ascendant lord he 
will confer good results only in the matter of children. 

51.When the planet has two lordships the Moolathrikoana 
Bhava will be fully and the other bhava will be partially experi- 
enced (Moolathrikona signs for Ravi-Simha; Moon-Vrisha, Mars- 
Mesha, Mercury-Kanya, Jupiter-Dhanu, Venus-Thula, Saturn- 
Kumbha. 


366 Course in Astrology 

52. When the planet has the lordship of 2 signs-of oja or yugma 
(male or female) the results will be conferred on the basis of occupa: 
tion i.e.. If the planet occupies the male sign the effect of oja Bhava 
and vice versa will be experienced. ee 

MilifAdd.Chart.\\\\\Part. V.Pa ge-176. : 

Here the Jupiter has the lordship of 5, 8, bhavas a good and 
evil bhava respectively. Here the fruit of the Sth bhava will be fully 
enjoyed as it falls in the Moolathrikona sign. (Dhanu). 

In the case of Mercury he has the lordship of 2 and 11th Bhava. 
Here he confers the’result of 11th because he occupies a oja sign 
and 11th Bhava falls in an oja sign. 

53.Ifa planet is positedin a 'Bhava Sandhi' it loses its strength 
even if he is in exaltation or in other good positions- 

54. If malefics occupy 6, 8, 12 their bad effects will be reduced. 

55.Ifmalefics occupy a trine or quadrant or are aspected by a 
benefic planet the evil nature is reduced. 

56. Though the planet is exalted in the Horoscope if it is de- 
bilitated in the Navamsa (9 Divisional Chart) it loses its strength. 


In the example Saturn is exalted with 22 and Mars is debili- 
tated with 22 . But inthe Navamsa chart the position is reversed. 
Saturn is debilitated and the Mars is exalted. Here the Navams" 
position will prevail upon the original chart position. 

Dear learners a broad outline and guideline only is given in 
the above lessons. The rules are not exhaustive. You can add ‘to 
your repertoire by reading more books and imbibing new ideas. 


Course in Astrology 


25. 
27, 
29, 


31 


33. 
35. 


367 


Peculiarities of the 12 Houses 


UNIT- 90 


In the following pages the peculiarities of the 12 houses and 
the results when the different planets associate with them are be- 
ing described. The learner is requested to master this section by" 
repeatedly reading it. 


FIRST BHAVA OR LAGNA OR ASCENDENT 


One has to look into the Lagna or first Bhava, the position, 
association, aspects etc.. ofits lord, and the position, association, 
aspects etc. ofits significator etc. in the horoscope when he wants 
to judge the following features of the native ofthe horoscope. 
1.Personality. 
3.Happiness and Misery, 
5.Knowledge, 

7.Fame, 

9.Dignity, 
11,Appearance, 
13.Livelihood, - 
15,Stigma on honour, 

17. Sleep. 

19, Health, 

21.Blame, 

23.Head., 


Maternal Grandfather, 
Good beha iour, 
Stomach, 

Prestige, 

Help from relative, 
Reputation, 


2.Family Status. 

4.0ld Age. 

6.Birth Place, 
S.Strength, 
10.Longevity, 

12. Pride, 

14.Gambling, 

16.Skin, 

18.Tendency to insult others. 
20.Contentedness, 
22.Natural Disposition, 
24. Comfort, 

26. Grandmother, 

28. protection, 

30. Respect from others, 
32. Caste. 

34, Recognition, 

36. Family Status. 


The first house is the most important of all the houses be- 
cause it is the gateway of entry of the life force ofthe native in this 


368 Course in Astrology 
world. So if the native has performed good duties in his earlier life 
the benefic planets will get associated with Lagna from which good 
results can be predicted. Here are a few such associations and occu- 
pations of the planets. 

1. First lordin a Kendra or Trikona (quadrant or trine) in the 
horoscope aspected by a benefic planet indicates reputation and rec- 
ognition in the period or sub period of the lord and the a spec ting 
planet. 

2.First lord with a benefic planet in a house other than 3, 6, 
8, 12 indicates recognition and reputation during the period and 
sub periods of the planets. 

3.First lord posited in 5th or 9th indicates the fame of the 
father (note that 5 is the 9th house from the 9th hence indicates 
father also) 

4.First lord posited in first house with the lords of 5th and 
9th indicates the go oposition of the father. 

5First lord posited in the first house together with the lord of 
the 3rd house indicates the well being and reputation of thé brother 
in their periods. 

6.First lord in first house and the 9th lord in the 9th house 
indicates good fortune in their periods and sub periods. 

7.First lord in first house, 9th lord in 9th house and Jupiter 
in a quadrant or trine indicate longlasting fortune. 

8.First lord in the 6th, 8th or 12th house and in association 
with a malefic planet indicate worries, diseases, difficulties, obscu- 
rity and ill repute, 

Also note the effects of planets on the first house. 


Sun- Laziness, wavering mind, quick tempered, 
vanity 

Sun in cancer- Cataract and other eye disease. 

Warning Moon- Vitality affected 

Moon in own house- Wealth 

Mars Adventurous, hasty, selfish, cruel. 

Mercury- - Well spoken, learned, good disposition, 
intelligent, long life. 

Jupiter- Fortune, attractive, cultured, good man 
nered, long life, good children, Wealthy, 
Healthy. 

Venus- Beautiful, Reasonable, Artistic, Healthy, 
Long Life, Pleasant. 

Saturn exaltation, own house- Magnetic 


personality . ; 


Course in Astrology 369 
Saturn not exaltation, own house- Lazy, inactive, gloomy, 
crooked ideas. 


Rahu- Cruel, troublesome, sickly 

Kethu- sickly, greedy 

Kethu- Benefic's aspect, enjoy life 

Rahu- Benefic's aspect, enjoyment of life 
Kethu- In Saturn's house, Wealth. 


SECOND HOUSE 
UNIT - 91 


The second house indicates the following features in the life 
of the native and so if the learner as an Astrologer wants to predict 
on the above aspects he has to evaluate the 2nd Bhava, 2nd Bhava 
lord and 2nd Bhava significator. Features indicated by the 2nd Bhava 
are the following. 


1.Nine gems 2.Nine grains 
3.Livelihood through others 4.Family 
5.Steadiness of mind 6.Selling and buying 
7.Truth and Untruth 8.Income through friends ¢ 
9-Ability to speak 10.Right eye 

11.Eye sight 12.Sastras 
13.Seven worlds 14.Death 
15.Enmity 16.Metals 
17.Wealth gain/loss 18.Face 

19.Speech 20.Learning 
21.Belief in traditions 22.Nails 

23 Tongue 24. Dress 

25.Nose 26.Liberal mind 
27.Eating 28.Living power 
29.Self earned money 30. Fame.. 


A few planetary combination and their effects on the 2nd 
Bhava are given below. 

1.2nd lordin 11thhouse and 11th lord im 2nd house (exchanged 
position) confers immense wealth in their periods. 

2.2nd and 11th lords in quadrants indicate great wealth in 
their periods 

3.2nd lord in 2nd, 1st lord in 1st and 11th lord in 11th indi- 
cate plenty of wealth in their periods. 

4, The 2nd lord and llthlord associated in 2nd or 11th confer 
wealth. 

5.1st lord in 2nd house, 2nd lord in 11th house and 11th lord 


370 Course in Astrology 
in 1st house indicate unexpected wealth through lottery specula- 
tion, inheritance etc.. 
6.1st lord and 2nd lord exchanging the houses indicate wealth 
to be acquired effortlessly. 
7.Mercury in the 2nd house aspected by a benefic planet indi- 
cates fixed wealth. 
8.2nd lord in 2nd and 5th lord in 5th indicate plenty. 
9.2nd lord Mercury. and Jupiter associated with a benefic 
planet in 2nd indicate immense wealth. 
11.1st lord in the 2nd with a malefic planet indicates loss by 
cheat in its period. 
12. Moon in 2nd for Capricorn ascendant regains, lost wealth. 
13.2nd or 5th lord in ascendant indicates thrift. 
14.2nd lord with Saturn or Saturn in 2nd indicate obstruction 
in learning and earning wealth. 
20.Jupiter in Trine or quadrant with Mercury and 2nd lord or 
Venus in exaltation indicate the taste for Mathematics. 
21.Mars in 2nd house with a benefic planet and Mercury in 
quadrant indicate taste for Mathematics. 
22. Jupiter being the 2nd lord and aspected by Sun and Venus 
indicate taste for grammar. 
23. The Sun or Mars being the 2nd lord and aspected by 
Jupiter and Venus indicate taste for logic. 
24.2nd lord and Mercury in a benefic house indicate taste in 
politics or economics. 
25.The 2nd lord with Rahu or Rahu in 2nd house indicate 
Stammering Speech. 
26. The 2nd lord with Kethu indicate Stuttering Speech. 27.2nd 
house aspected by malefics indicate angry mood. 
28. The lord of the 2nd house associated with Sun 
indicates 
the tendency to help others. 


Sun- Truthful, Loves everybody 
Moon- Learned, Soft spoken 
Mars- Angrymoodm, likes green peppers. 


Mercury- Clever speech, sincere, likes good food 
Jupiter- learned, wealthy, likes delicious food 
Venus- weak morals, artistic talent 


Saturn- rude speech, learning delayed 


Rahu- stuttering speech insincere speech 
Kethu- aggressive talking, angry mood. 


Course in Astrology 371 


Example: 

The first lord in 2nd , the 2nd lord in 11th and 11th lord in 
1st The Ist lordin Ist house and 2nd lord in 2nd house. 

As is already stated in the case of the first house the above 
significatiou and planetary combinations are inconclusive. So the 
Learner is advised to refer to treatises. 


THIRD HOUSE 


Unit 92) 


When the learner as an Astrologer happens to deal with the 
following spheres of the native he must look into-the 3rd Bhava, 
3rd Bhava lord, planets positedin the 3rd Bhava the planets aspect- 
ing, Or associating with the 3rd Bhava. lord, planets signifying the 
3rd Bhava. 


Generally the 3rd Bhava indicates the following things. 


1.Younger brother/Sister 2.Courage 

3.War * 4.Right Ear 

5.Legs 6.Roadside place 
7.Confusion 8.Fitness 

9, Sorrow 10.Dream, 

11.Heroic valour au 12.One’s own relations 
13.Friend 14.Wandering 
15.Throat j .16. Virtue 

17.Lesrning 18.Partition of Property 
19.Past.time 20. Bodily strength 
21:Grain 22.Noble lineage 


23.Female servants 24.Journey in small vehicle 


372 Course in Astrology 


25.Large undertaking 26.Religious Duty 

°27.Army . 28.Melody of voice 

29.Arms of a Person 30.Mother's paternal Uncle 
31.Journey to neibhouring countries 32.Father's Death . 
33.Employer 34,Worries caused by mother 
35.Grains from land 36.Carnel pleasures 
37.Longevity " $8.Ornaments of ears 
39.Music 40.Raping 

41.Gains from service 42.Sinful acts 

43.Patience 44.Entitlement to earn food 


45.Expenses of mother. 
A few planetary combinations involving the 3rd house are 
enumerated below. The learner may refer to standard treatises also. 
. 1.Mars in 3rd house-long life. , 
2.3rd lord in 10th house indicates decrease of property. 
3.3rd lord and Mars in 8th house indicate loss of brothers. 
4. Saturn in 3rd house and a malefic planet aspeeting it. Not 
good for younger brother. 
5.A Trine or quadrant from 3rd house occupied by a malefic 
not good for younger brother. 
6.3rd lord and Mars in malefic sign or associated with a ma- 
lefic planet indicate the. death of younger brother. 
7.Aspect of Sani to Mars occupying the 3rd house indicates 
the death of younger brother. 
8.A malefic planet in the 3rd house good for brother. 
10.3rd and 4th lords in conjunction with Mars indicate the 
birth of one younger brother 
11.3rdlord occupying any of the houses from 2-7 with a ma- 
lefic planet indicate the birth of only one younger brother 
12.Rahu in 3rd house indicates favourable results to the 
younger brother. 
13.3rd house being the house ofJupiter with Jupiter in it or 
Saturn aspecting it indicate the birth ofone younger brother, 
14.3rd lord and Moon in 6th, 8th or 10th indicate the baby 
will not be breast fed. 
15.3rd and Ist lord associated together indicate no harm to 
the younger. 
16.3rd lord in ascendent indicate that the next born will be 
free of danger. 
17 When the Saturn associates with 2nd and 3rd lord the na- 
tive will turn miserly. 
18.]fin the Ist house 3rd lord and Jupiter conjunction indica- 
tions of fear from quadruped. 


Course in Astrology 373 

19.IfRahujoins 1st and 8rd lord fear from poisan. 

20.The strong 3rd lord in a benefic sign indicates virtue 

21. Jupiter and Mercury aspecting the 3rd house indicate good 
voice. 

22.3rd lord in association with the 10th lord in a Trine or 
quadrant indicate good voice. Result ofoccupation ofthe 3rd house 
by different planets. 

Scores ofo ther planetary combination are given in the stand- 
ard Astrological treatises which the learners may refer to. 


Sun in 3rd indicates Bravery worthiness and liberality. 
Moon in 3rd indicates kindness and virtue. 

Jupiter in 3rd indicates disrespect 

Venus in 3rd indicates unhappiness 

Saturn in 3rd indicates wealth, intelligence 

Rahu in 3rd indicates wealth, long life 

Kethu in 3rd indicates longlife, reputation, riches. 


THE FOURTH HOUSE 
UNIT- %L 


The significations of the fourth house are given below. When 
these matters are to be adjudged the Astrologer has to evaluate the 
4th house, the lord of the fourth house and the planets signifying 
the matter. (The method and steps of evaluation are given in ear- 
lier lessons). 

Signification of the 4th House 


1.Mother 

3.Artistic Ability 

5. Conveyances 

7. Hidden treasures 
9.Home 

11. Comforts 

13. Gardens 

15. Breasts of Women 
17.Maternaluncle 
19. Clothes 

21. Buffalo 

23, Water 
25Efficacious medicine 
27. Father 
29Mother's side 
31.Savings 


2. Scent 

4. Education 

6.Milk yielding cows 
-8.Evilsto father 

10. Relatives 

12. Lands 

14. Virtuous Life 
16.Power in service 
18. Nephew 
20.Jewels 

22. Kingdom 

24. Milk 

26.False allegations 
28. Wife 

30. Intellect 

32.Loss of residence 


374 Course in Astrology 


33.Paternal property 34,Celestial food 
35.Development of sacred texts 36. Horses 
37.Elephants 38.Grains 
39.Temples 40. Dreams. 


Indications ofthe planetary combinations in the 4th house. 

1.4th lord and Venus in ascendant of in 4th house indicate 
enjoyment in life, acquiring wealth, conveyance land, cattle etc. 

2.4th lord in 4th house aspected by a benefic planet indicates 
good learning. 

3.The 4th house occupied or aspected by malefics indicates 
illiterate nature. 

5.4th house occupied or aspected by benefic planets and 8th 
lord in his own house or.exaltation indicate the straight forward 
nature. 

6.1f4th house is occupied by Rahu or aspected by any other 
malefic planet the absence of domestic comfort is the indication. 

7.1f 4th house is occupied by a malefic, or eclipsed or. debili- 
tated planet and is not having benefic aspect the native will not 
have good relations. 

8.The lords of the 4th and 9th associating the ascendent the 
native will be fortunate and have conveyances. 

9. Jupiter or Venus associating the 4th lord in atrine or quad- 
rant the native will have high status and conveyances. 

10.The lord ofthe 4th house and Moon in 6th, 8th or 12this 
not good for mother. 

11.A malefic planet in ascendant and 4th lord in, 6th, 8th or 
12th indicate bad experience to mother. 

12.A malefic planet in 4th house and Moon in 6th, 8th or 12th 
with a malefic planet is not good for mother. 

13.4thlord it debilitated, or aspected by a malefic planet and 
Saturn in the 4th house are not good for mother. B 

14.When the Moon is aspected or associated with 3 malefic 
planets the indications are not good for mother. 

15,Moon getting a benefic aspect the indication is the longev- 
ity of mother. 

16.Moon associated with and aspected by a imalefic planet and 
posited in the 7th or 8th house ofa malefic planet the experience of 
the mother will not be good. 

17.Jupiter in lst, Saturn in Second and Rahu in 3rd are not 
good for mother. 

18.The 4th house from Moon is occupied by a malefic planet 
and if the house is inimical indicate bad experience to mother. 


Course in Astrology 375 

19.The 6th, 8th or 12th house from Moon if occupied by a 
weak malefic planet indicate bad experience to mother. 

20.Moon in a quadrant and Venus in exaltation or in his own 
house indicate long life for mother. 

21.The 5th or 9th house from Moon is occupied by a Malefic 
planet and does not have.the benefic aspect mother will have bad 
experiences. 

22.Mars associated with or aspected by Jupiter indicate long 
life for mother. 

23.Moon and 4th lord aspected by a benefic and benefic planet 
in the 4th house indicate happiness for mother. 

24.Moon aspected by or associated with a malefic planet, 4th 
lord debilitated and a malefic planet in the 3rd or 5th house indi- 
cate sickness for the mother. 

25.The 1st lord in 4th house and the 4th lord in Ist house the 
native will be with the mother at the time of her death 

26.IfMoon is aspected by the 1stor 4th lord the native willbe 
at the side of the mother at the time of her death. 

27.1fthe 1st lord is debilitated in the 4th house or the 4th lord 
is debilitated in the Isthouse the native will not be with the mother 
at the time of her death. 

Indication of Planets Associated with 4th House. 


Sun Heart ailment, loss of happiness, mental depression. 
¢ Moon Happy and educated 
Mars Happiness due to relatives 
Mercury Learned, Happy 
Jupiter ™ Happiness on account of mother, children, wealth and 
spouse. 
Venus Owns Vehicles, house, ornaments, influenced by spouse. 
Saturn Difficulties on account of mother, worries, loss of Vehicle 
Rahu Misunderstanding with mother and relatives. 
Kethu Misunderstanding with mother and relatives. 
FIFTH HOUSE 
UNIT - 94 


The indications of the 5th house are given hereunder. The 
Astrologer concentrating on prediction with these items will have 
to make in the horoscope a thorough analysis of the 5th house, its 
lord and the significator planets of these indications. 

Indications of the 5th House 
1.Progeny 2.Good deeds of father 
S.King * 4.Minister o 


376 Course in Astrology 


5.Good morals 6.Mechanical art 
7. Mind 8. Learning 
9.Pregnancy 10. Discretion 


11.Paternal Property 12.Foresightedness 
13.Property got through wife 14.Relation with prostitutes 


15. Secret 16.Prosperity 

17. Firmness 18.Long literary production 
19.Engagement in business 20.Prayer by incantation 
21.Wealth 22.Cooked rice 

23. Chanting vedas 24. Deepthinking 

25. Ways for earning money 26. Satisfaction 
27.Royal insignia 28.Taxes 

29. Future 30. Memory 

31.Plan 32. Manthrajapa 


33. Worship of deities 34Puranas 
35. Auspicious speeeh  36.Gio0d deeds done in the previous life, 


37. Next birth 38. Scholoarship 
39 Public speech 40. Teaching’ 
41.Humility 42. Dignity. 


Planetary combinations associated with 5th house. 

1. Jupiter, Mercury and Venus occupying the 5th house and a 
fortified Sth lord indicate good prosperity. 

2.Moon or Yenus happens to be the 5th lord and gets the as-, 
pect of the other with no malefic aspect the native will have many 
children. 

3.The 5th lord in Sth house associated with Jupiter will con- 
fer children 

5.{1st lord in 5th house and Jupiter and Sth lord are in it 
indicate progeny. 

6.Satrun or Mercury associating 5th lord indicate few chal-- 
dren. 

7.1fLeo, Virgo or Scorpio happen to be the 5th house indicate 
few children. 

8 If the 5th house happens to be Leo, Virgo or Scorpio and 
occupied by Sun, 8th is occupied by Saturn and ascendant is occu- 
pied by Mars late birth of child 

9.Ifa malefic planet.occumes the 5th house fromJupiter, Moon 
in 11th and more planets in. ascendant indicate the begetting of 
child after great difficulty.. 

10. Jupiter alone posited in cancer indicates many daughters 

11 Jupiter in 5th house indicate one son. 

12.Ifthe 2nd and 5th lords are weak they indicate absence of 


Course in Astrology 377 
children. 

13.If malefics occupy 5th, lords are weak they indicate ab- 
sence of children 

13 If malefics occupy 5th, 8th and 12th they indicate absence 
of children. 

14.Ifthe 5th house happens to be the house of Saturn and 
aspected by Mercury and aspected by Saturn indicate absence of 
child. 

15. If Jupiter occupies the 5th house and is aspected by malefics 
loss of children. 

17,5th lord in the benefic Navamsa and Mars in quadrant 
with a benefic planet indicates feeding of poor children. 

18.5th lord and 10th lord exchanging their positions indicate 
popularity in public. 

19 The lord of Ist and 5th house exchanging their positions 
indicate popularity in public. 

20.If the lords of lst and 5th house occupy a Kendra or a 
Trikona or 1lthhouse indicate fame. 

21.1f 5th is a benefic sign and also is occupied by a benefic 
planet indicate magnanimity. 

22.1fthe 5th house 1s occupied by Sun and Mars the native 
will often get angry. 

Indication by planets occupying the 5th house 


Sun in the Sth house Intelligent ¢ 
Moon in the 5th house Sympathetic, liberal outlook 
Mars in the Sth house Daring, unkind, cruel 


Mercury in the 5th house Expert in Learning, rich 
Jupiter in the Sth house Intelligent, good qualities, few children 


Venus in the Sth house Friends, wealthy children with artistic 
ability 

Saturn in the 5th house Bad mentality, unhappy 

Rahu in the Sth house Ability to read other’s- mind 


Kethu in the 5th house Miserly. 


THE SIXTH HOUSE 
UNIT- 95 


The 6thhouse broadly indicates enemy, obstacle, disease etc. 
Like the other houses its significations of 6th house are also nu- 
merous, which are enumerated below. The Astrologer attempting 
the judgement of the following matters should look into the 6th 


378 


Course in Astrology 


house, the lord ofthe 6th house and the planets signifying matters 
of the 6th house and planets occupying 6th house. 
Indication of the 6th House 


1.Fear from enemy 
3.Obstacles 
5.Disappointment 
7. Ailment 

9. Liabilities 

11. Theft 

13. Cruel deeds 
15.Allegations 

17. Loss 

19. 1lfame 
21.Urinary diseases 
23.Forgetful nature 
25. Rank and status 
27. Imprisonment 
29. Navel 

31.Bad habits 

33. Swelling in body 
35.Eye disease 

37. Service 

39.Fear 


2.Quarrel 

4.Sorrow 

6.Pain 

8.Untimely death 

10. Poisoning 

12 Fire 

14.Doubt 

16.Sorrow caused by women 
18. difficulty, strain 

20. Enmity with servants 
22. Tuberculosis 

24. Worries 

26: Step mother 

28. Chest 

80. Anxiety 

82. Wounds 

34, Insanity 

36.Dysentary 
38.Misunderstanding with brother 
40. Various phobia. 


Planetary combinations involving the 6th house and their 


indications: 


1.6th house occupied by Jupiter indicates overcoming enemies 
2.6th house occupied or aspected by benefic planets indicate 


no fear from enemies. 


3.1 fthe lord of 6th house is weak and is aspected by malefics 
indicates fear from enemies. 
. 4.1f the 6th lord is in ascendant it indicates troubles from 


cousins. 


5. Ifthe 6th lord occupied the 6th house andis a aspected by a 
malefic it indicates troubles from enemies. 

6.6th lord in 6th or 8th or 12th as depressed or eclipsed and 
the lst lord strong indicating the destruction of enemies. 

7.Jf 6th lord, 1st lord and Moon or Mars join together the 
indication is fear from water. 

8.1fthe 6th lord lst lord and Saturn join together fear from 


thieves is indicated 


9.1fthe 6th lord, lst lord and Rahu join together the indica- 
tion is fear from reptiles. 


Course in Astrology 379 
10.1f6th lord, 1st lord and Rahuor Saturn associate together 

in a Kendra the indication is imprisonment for criminal offence. 
Indication of planetary occupation in 6th Bhava. 

Wealth, self-respect 

Long life 

Defeating enemies. 

No scruples 

Destroys enemies 

Few enemies 

Wealthy, Obstinate 

Wealthy, Long life, Happy 

Magnanimous, Virtuous. 


If Sun jceupies the 6th indicates 
If Moon occupies the Sth indicates 
If Mars occupies the 6th indicates 

If Mercury occupies the 6th indicates 
If Jupiter occupies the 6th indicates 
If Venus occupies the 6th indicates 
If Saturn occupies the 6th indicates 
If Rahu occupies the 6th indicates 

If Kethu occupies the 6th indicates 


THE SEVENTH HOUSE 


UNIT- 96 


The significations of the 7th house are enumerated below. 
When the Astrologer has to make predictions about any of the signifi- 
cations he has to consider the strength and planetary association of 
the 7th lord, the planets posited in and aspecting the 7th Bhava 
and planets signifying the following matters. 

Singnifications of the 7th Bhava. 


1. Marriage 
3.Love and affection 


5.Deviation from right path 


7.Break ofjourney 
9.Two wives 

11. Urine 

13.Trade 

15, Gift 
17,Controvercy 
19.Adopted son 
21. Wife 

23. Journeys 
25.Death 
27.desire 
29.Grand Father 
31. Litigations 

33. Flowers 
35Attracting others 
37.Food of liking 
39. Dance 


2.Unchastity 

4.Enmity with female 
6.Perfume 
8.Purity of the spouse 

10. Private Organ 

12.Anus 

14. Sweet drink 

16.Destruction of power 

18. Sexual union 

20. Theft : 
22,.Secret pleasures 

24. Death of enemies 

26. Gambling 

28. Sexy feeling 

30. Arguments 

32. Cloth trade 

34, Listening to music 
36.Obstacles to journey 
38.children through second wife 
40. Bones 


380 Course in Astrology 
‘41.quarrels with wife 42. Success in Litigation. 
Planetary indications involving the 7th house. 
1.Ifthe 7th lord joins Venus in a benefic sign in association or 
aspect of benefic indicates prominence. 
2.7th lordin abenefic sign and in association with or aspected 
by a benefic planet indicate good status and respect. 
3A benefic sign happens to be the 7th house occupied or 
aspected by Jupiter indicates strong morals. 
4.7th lord in 7th house associated with Rahn, Kethu or Venus 
indicate loose sexual morals. 
5.Ifthe 7th house is occupied by the Ist, 2nd and 6th lords 
and in association with malefic planets indicate loose sexual mor- 
als. 
6.The lords of the 7th, 2nd and 10th lords posited in the 10th 
indicate loose sexual habits. 
7.Venusin the house of Saturn or Mars and aspected by Saturn 
or Mars indicate loose sexual habits. 
S.Venus and Mars together in 4, 5, 7, 9, 10 indicate loose sexual 
habits. 
9.The 4th house from Venus is occupied by Moon indicate 
loose sexual habits. 
10.Ifthe Taurus and Libra happen to be the ascendants and 
7th or#10th house is occupied by Mercury, Venus and Saturn it is 
. indicative of loose sexual habits. 
11.[fMercury and Venus occupy 7th 8th or 10th house it in- 
dicates loose sexual habits. 
12.1{Taurus or Sagittarius happens to be the ascendant Venus 
associated with Mars and aspected by Saturn is indicative of sensu- 
ous nature. 
13 If 7th house is occupied by Rahu or Kethu it indicates loose 
sexual habits. 
14. If Venus occupies the Aries or Scorpio the native will not 
be able to satisfy the other sex. 
15 1st lord in first house and Venus in 7th house indicate the 
disability in satisfying the opposite sex. 
16.The lords of 7th and 8th exchanging houses indicate 
unhappiness due to life partner. 
17.7th lords and Venus in 8th house indicate unhappy mar- 
ried life. 
18% Venus in association with or aspected by a malefic indi- 
cates loss of partner. 
19.A malefic planet in the 2nd house and a malefic planet 


Course in Astrology 381 
aspecting the 7th house indicate 2 wives. 

20.lfa malefic planet being the 1st lord occupies the first in- 
dicates loss of wife. 

21.1lfa benefic planet happens to be the 1st lord and occupies 
the 7th house indicates the loss of wife after prime of life. 

22.7th lord in Kendra with benefic aspect indicate a various 
spouse. 

24.1Ifthe ascendant is Capricorn aud Saturn and Mars oc- 
cupy the 7th house it indicates a Virtuous spouse.- 

25. 1st lord and 7th lords occupying a benefic house indicate a 
long married fife. 

Indication of planetary occupation in the 7th house. 


Sun posited in 7th indicates Wandering nature, dis 
satisfucion frani Spouse. 
Moon positted in 7th indicates Badly behaving spouse 
Murs posited in 7th indicates Learned wife 
Jupiter posited in 7th indicates Good spouse 
Venus posited in 7th indicates Spouse interferes with others 
Saturn posited in 7th indicates Weak sexual habits, 
dislikes spouse 
Rahu posited in 7th indicates loose sexual habits 
Kethu posited in 7th indicates Disrespectful’ spouse. 
THE; EIGHTHHOUSE 
UNIT- 97 


The following is the list of significations of the 8th house. 
When the Astrologer wants to analyse the following matters he has 
to take into consideration the 8th house, 8th lord, and planets in 
the 8th house siguifyiug the following items. 

Significations of the 8th house 


1. Longevity 2. Conflicts 

3.Failure 4.Death 

5. Sin 6.Kind of death 

7.Wound 8. Urimary Diseases 

9.Kind ofdeath 10.Loss 

11.Fear 12.Grief 

13.Enmity with wife 14.Fear from poison BT hea Sele eS 
15. Warfield 16.Fall from beight 


17.Long lasting diseases 18.Source of trouble 
19. Unnecessary expenditue 20 Accidents 

21. Anger 22.Loss of Limb. 

23. Mystery. wo. wu. 24. Boat . e".' 


382 Course in Astrology 


25.1mprisonment 26,Theft 

27. Robbery 28. Long life to husband 

29.Hole 30.Mental Distress 

31.Insulc 32.Servituda 

33.Giving loans 34.Receiving donations 

35. Diseases in anus 36. Amounts to be received after death 
37. Witch craft 38. Diseases in anus 

39.Loss of money 40. Misfortune. 


Indications from planetary occupation of &th house. 

1.8th lord in 8th house indicates longer life. 

2.8th lord and 1st lord in a Kendra indicate longer life. 

31f 8th lord, 1st lord and 10th lord have strength and they 
are not in association with Saturn indicate long life. 

4.8th lord exalted and in association with a benefic planet in 
a quadrant and trine confers long life. 

5.8th lord if weaker than the 1st lord and is posited ina house 
Other than kendra gives long life. 

6.8th lord in association with Saturn or Saturn aspected by 
8th lord indicates longer hfe. 

7. Saturn in 8th house gives longer life. 

8.8th lord and a benefic planet im the 11th house indicate 
longer hfe. 

9.1£Venus and Jupiter are strong in the horoscope and the 
8th house from ascendant or Moon are not occupied by any planet a 
very long life is indicated. 

10. When the 8th lord is in ascendant and 3 planets are ex- 
alted the native will have longer hfe. 

11.8th lord or Saturn associates with an exalted planet the 
native will have longer life. 

12.When malefic planets are in 8th and 10th lord exalted 
longer life is indicated. 

13.8th lord and Malefic planets in the 11thindicate shorter 


life. 

14.When Kethu joins the 8th lord the indication is shorter 
life. 
Indication of death ; 


15.Ifthe 8th lord is posited in 6th, 8th or 12th death may 
occur in its period or sub-period, 

16.Death may occur in the period ofthat planet in whose sign 
the Saturn is posited and in the sub-period of that planet in whose 
sign the Saturn is posited and in the sub-period of 8th lord. 


Course in Astrology 383 

17 Death may occur in the period of the 8th lord and in the 
sub-period of the planet posited in the 8th house. 

18.If the lord of the 1st house occupies the 6th, 8th or 12 the 
house and is associated with Rahu and Kethu, the period of that 
planet who is associated with the Ist lard and 8th lord death may 
occur. 

19,When the lords of the first and 8th are associated with 
some planet, during the period of that planet which is the lord of 
the signs occupied by the 1st lord and 8th lord death may occur. 

20 Death occurs in the sub-period of that planet which is the 
weakest among the Ist lord, 8th lord, LOthlordor Saturn and which 
is associated with Rahu. 

21.If the 8th lord occupies the 8th house disease may occur in 
his period or sub-period. 

22.Ifthe 1st lord occupied the 1st house disease occurs dur- 
ing his period or sub-period and will get cured also.. 

23.Ifthe 8th lord is stronger than the 1st lord death occurs 
during the period of the 1st lord. 

24.[f the 1st lord is weak the-period of the Ist lord and 8th 
lard will be full of difficulties. 

25 If the 1st lord is strong death occurs in the period of the 
8th lord. 

26 When the Ist lord and 8th lord are associated with some 
planet in a Kendra or Trikona then death occurs in the period of 
the planet posited in the 8th house. ' 

27. When the 8th lord is aspected by Saturn or Mars and Ist 
lord is not aspected by Jupiter from a Kendra and Trikona Shorter 
life is predicted. 

28 8th lord in 6th or 12th aspected by a malefic planet indi- 
cate, shorter life. 

29. When Saturn is in conjunction with the 10th Navamsa lord 
of the ascendent the person will die by taking poison. 

Planets in the 8th house and their indications. 

Sun in the Sth indicates Short life 

Moon in the 8th indicates Suffering fron. diseases and 
short lived 

Mars in the Sth indicates Not very popular 

Mercury in the Sth indicates Long lived, reputed 

Jupiter in the Bth indicatesLong lived, poor 

Venus in the 8th imdicates Long lived rich 

Saturn in the Sth indicates Long lived but poor 

Rahu in the 8th indicates Suffering from ailments 

Kethuin the Sthindicates Disappointment. . 


384 Course in Astrology 

N.B: In all treatises there is a separate chapter on longevity. 
The chapter is named as Ayurdaya. Learners are advised to refer to 
that chapter. 


THE NINTH HOUSE 
UNIT - :98: 


The Features signified by the 9th house are enumerated be- 
low and the Astrologer has to consider the 9th house, 9th lord Planet 
occupying ninth and the signifying planets when dealing with the 
following matters. 


Significations of 9th house 


1. Father 2. Donation 

3. Virtue 4. Foreign travel 

5 Dips in holy water 6.Penance 

7.Respect to eders 8.Conduct 

9.Purity of mind 10.divine worship 

11.Exertion for learning 12.5plendour 

13. Conveyance 14.Affuence 

15.Pohicy 16. Politics 

17. Dignity 18 Association with good people 
19.Paternal wealth 20. Daughter 

21.Son : 22. Circulation of money 
23.Brahmanic faith 24.Vedic sacrifices 

25 Good fortune 26. Preceptor 

27.Good deeds in the previous birth 28.Grandson 
29.Pilprimage 30. Charitable deeds 


31.Mudane pleasures 32.Religious likes. 
Indication of planetary positions in 9th Bhava. 
L1f 10th lord and Jupiter associate in a benefic house it indicates 
fortune to the native. 
2.1fa planet is in exaltation in 9th house indicates fortune. 
a.1stlord in 1st house and the 9th lord in a Kendra or Trikona 
indicate good fortune. 
4.The 9th lord and Sun associated in a benefic house the fa- 
ther will live long. 
5.Jupiter in 9th house and in own Navaamsa and aspected by 
a benefic planet the native will be dutiful. 
6.[f Mars or Saturn occupy the 9th house and the 9th lord 
occupies 6th, Sth or 12th house it indicates short life for father. 
7.1fSaturn happens to be the 9th lord (for Taurus and Gemini 
ascendant) and occupies a movable sign and does not get benefic 


Course in Astrology 385 
aspect the native will have a foster father. 

8.If the 9th lord is in ascendant and gets a benefic aspect 
native gets respect from higher authorities. 

9.9th lord associated with Jupiter or Venus in the 4th house 
or 9th house the native will get prominence. 

10.1fthe 9th lord is debilitated in the 12th house the native 
will stay in his own country but in a different place. 

Indications of different planets occupying the 9th house. 
Sun in the 9th house indicates Misunders tan ding with parents. 


Moon in the 9th house indicates Prosperity, Virtues 

Mars in the 9th house indicates Wrongful action 

Mercury in the Sth house indicates Educated 

Jupiter in the 9th house indicates Devoted to duties, wise 

Venus in the 9th house indicates Artistic ability 

Saturn in the 9th house indicates Rich by unfair means 

Rahu in the 9th house indicates Apathy towards father 

Kethu in the 9th house indicates Enmity with others, 
unlucky. 


THE TENTH HOUSE 
UNIT :99 


Like the other houses 10th. House also indicates numerous 
items that are enumerated below. When it necessitates to deal with 
the following aspects the astrologer should analyse the 10th house, 
10th house-lord the planet in the 10th house and the planet signify 
ing the undermentioned items. 

Matters Signified by the 10th House 


1,Profession. 2.Wisdom 

3.Fame 4.Achievement in medicine 
5.Big position 6.Good and bad of father 

7. Kindness 8,Prestige 

9. Knees 10.Thighs 

11.Backbone 12.Devotion to father 
i3.News from distant places 14:Rains 
15. Droughts. 16.Sky 

17. Kingdom 18Living in foreign Countries 
19. Business 20.Command21. Agriculture. 
22. Science 23.Athletics 


2 4. Agriculture 25.Doctor 
26.Deposits, 


386 A Course in Indian Astrology 
UNIT 100 


THE ELEVENTH HOUSE 


The following is the list of the significations of the 11th house. 
The astrologer who wants to deal with the topics will look into the 
nature and strength ofthe 11th house, 11thlord andplanets signi- 
fying the items. 

significations of the 11th house 


1.Gains 2.Desires 

3.Bad desires 4.Receipts 

5. Dependeucy . 6.Elder brother or sister 
7.Paternal, uncle 8.Worship of dieties 
9.0rnaments 10.Pearls 

11.Wealth 12. Ministership 

13. Brother in faw 14,Fortune 

15.Skill in arts 16.Right foot 

17. Left hand 18.lncome 

19. Vehicles 20.Palanquins ; 
21.Chariots 22.Decoration 

23. Left ear : 24.Good news 

25. Sexual acts 26.Enemy’s enemy 


27.Affection to mother 28.Regaining lost things 
29.Enjoying more wives30.To live by dancing and singing 
31.Gains through education32. Kitchen 


33.Goldsmithy 34.Blaming others 
35.Re.lief of mental pain36.Desire to take other's money* 
37. poverty 


Indications of planetry occupation in 11th house 

LIfa benefic planet occupies the 11th house indicates wealth 
through fair means. 

2.1f a malefic planet occupies the 11th house it indicates wealth 
through unfair means. 

3 The 11th lord in a kendra or Trikona indicates wealth. 

4.The 11th lord exalted indicates wealth. 

5.The 11thlord in first and first lord in 11thindicate long life 
and property. 

6 The 1ith lord in 9th and 9th lord in 11th indicate success- 
ful life. 

7.Malefic in 3rd, 6th and I1th indicate success in life. 

8.1fa strong Sun occupies the 11th indicates benefit from own 
people, good wealth family life and long hfe. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 387 

9.If a strong Moon occupies the 11th indicates profit from 
mother step mother etc longhfe wealth. 

10.1fa strong Mars occupies the 11thhouse benefit from broth- 
ers. 

11.1Ifa strong Mercury occupies the eleventh house benefit 
from uncle deities and friends. 

12.1fa strong Jupite occupies the eleventh house indicates 
money from vedic studies, sacrifices, and children, strong intellect. 

138.Ifa strong Venus occupies the llth house indicates ben- 
efits from lodies, arts, singing etc, comfortable life, fond of women's 
company long life. 

14.Ifa strong Saturn occupies the cleventh house indicates 
income from agriculture, and servants, long life, free from diseases. 

15.IfSun or Moon happens to be the lords of 11th the benefit 
will be from kinglike people. 

16.Ifthe Mars happens to be the'lord of 11th house the in- 
come will be from ministers, younger brothers and earth. 

17.IfMercury happens to be the lord of llth house the in- 
come will be from ministers, younger brothers and earth. 

18.Iffupiter happens.to be the llth lord wealth is obtained 
by noble deeds. 

19.Ifyenus happens to be the lord of llth wealth is'‘obtained 
from ladies, gents and animals like elephant. 

20.1f saturn happens to be the lord of 11th money is gained by 
foul means amd hard labour. 

21.1f Rahuoccupies the eleventh house native will suffer from 
ear diseases. 7 

22.1fKethu occupies the eleventh the native will enjoy good 
qualities, sympathetic to other people. 


UNIT 101 
THE TWELFTH HOUSE 


Generally the 12th house is considered as a bad house. But 
some people do not consider it as bad The following is the hst of 
factors signified by the 12th house. When the astrologer wants to 
analyse the following factors he must analyse the 12th Bhava if 
lord and the planets signifying the particular Bhava. 

Matters signified by the 12th Bhava. 

1. Expenditure 2.Negation of the Ist Bhava 

3.Enmity with others 4.0bstacles 

5,.Gbseurity of mind 6.Sleeping pleasure 


388 A Course in Indian Astrology 
7:Livelihood in other places . 8.Moksha 


9.Naraka 10. Expenditure caused by Government 
11.Secret intelligence 12.End 

13.Penury 14.Left eye 

15. Imprisonment 16.Feet 

17.Punishment 18.Urgent demands 
'19.Loss of wife 20.Liberation from pain 
21.Loss by marriage 22.Loss of paternal wealth 
23.Renunciation 24.Physical injury 
25.Death 26.Obstacles from parent 


27.Termination ofappointment 

Significations indicated by planetary position in twelfth Bhava 

1.I[fa benefic is occupied in the twelfth house and is aspected 
by another benefic and ifthe twelfth lord is weak the native will be 
careful in expenditure. 

2.1ftwelfth lord occupies a benefic house the native will incur 
only legitimate expenses 

3.Iftwelfth lord associates with or is aspected by weak plan- 
ets the expenditure will be questionable. 

4.If Sun or Moon occupies the twelfth bhava money disap- 
pears. 

5.If Mars occupies the twelfth and is aspected by Mercury 
wealth is lost in many ways. 

6.Ifan exalted planet occupies the twelfth the results will be 
beneficiary. 

7.1fa weak planet occupies the 12th but the twelfth lord hap- 
pens to be strong money will be spent freely. 

8.1f the fust lord and 12th lord exchange places the native 
will squander money. 

9.If 12th lord occupies his own house the native will be benefit- 
ted. 

10.Ifa benefic planet occupies the 12th the native will liberally 
spend. 

11.IfMercury and Venus occupy twelfth the native will enjoy 
comfort at house. 

12.Ifsaturn occupies 12th in association with Rahu and Kethu 
and aspected by the Sth lord the native will commit sinful deeds. 

13.1 ftwelfth lord or kethu aspects a benefic house and not 
associated or aspected by a imalefic planet the native gets a peaceful 
end. 

Indications by planets posited in the 12th house. 


A Course in Indian Astrology 


389 
1.5un indicates energy and having sons. 


2.Moon 7 living ina foreign country. 
3-Mars ! cruelty. 

4.Mercury " obedience to relatives. 
S.Jupiter aversion to religion. 

6. Venus " Sensual pleasures. 

7,.Saturn He Poverty, lack of intelligence. 
8.Rahu : Secret gains. 

9. Kethu " 


Wasteful expenses, eye defect. 


Diucn.. Proportional Logarithms for finding the planets’ places or time of conjunction or aspect 


ee i NT CN gs a 


DEGREES OF HOURS 


— 


Min. |————-- 


; 0 ee ane eee: a. 
0.4.2 1.3802 | 1.0792 ,.903t 
1° 3.1584] 1.3730 | 1.0756 |.9007 
2 ; 2.8573 | 1.3660 | 1.0720 -.8983: 
3! 2.6812} 1.3590 1.0685 .8959 
4 + 2.5563 | 1.3522: 1.0649 .8935 
§ | 24594) 1.3454] 1.0614 .8912 
6 | 2.3802] 1.3388 | 1.0580 *.8888 
7 | 2.3133 | 1.3323 | 1.0546 ,.8865 
8 | 2.2553 | 1.3258 | 1.0511 j8842 
9 | 2.2041 | 1.3195 | 1.0478 }.8319 
10 | 24584} 1.3133 | 1:0444 |.8796 
1 | 2.1270 | 1.3071 | 1o41t '.3773 
12 | 20792; 1.3010 | 1.0378 |.875] 
13° | 2.0444 | 1.2950 | 1.0345 ].8728 
14 | 2.0122 |} 1,289] } 1.0313 1.8706 : 
15 | 1.9823 | 1.2833 | 1.0280 1.8683 , 
16 | 1.9542 | 1.2775 } 1.0248 1.8661 
17 + 1.9279: 1.2719 | 1.0216 1.8639 
18 | 1.9931 | 1.2663 | 1.0185 '.8617 
19 | 1.8796! 4.2607 | 1.0153 |.8595 
20 | 1.8573 : 1.2553] 3.0122'1.8573 
21 | 1.8361 , 1.2499 | 1.0091 '18552 
22 | 1.8159) 1.2445 | 1.006! :.8530 
23 1.7966 | 1.2393 | 1.0030 j.8509 
24 | 17781 | 1.2341 | 1.0000 :-8487 
25 | 1.7604! 1.2989 ! 0.9970 ! S466 
Zé} 1.7434! 1.2939 © 0.9940 |. R445 
27 | 1.7270 | 1.2188 | 0.9910 8424 
28 =| 1.7112! 1.2139.' 0-9881 «403 
29 | 1.6960 | 1.3090 ; 0.9852 | 8382 . 
30 | 1.6812] 1.2041 | 0-9223 1.8367 


a tect Mil ctieleenil inch Ta pal act ld em A hn I - ee 
pope te ts leis ps jo B 1 9 | 10 u | | 


7368 |-6478 
-7351 1.6465 
7335 |.645] 
THB |.6438 
.7302 |.6425 1.5695 }.5071 


4. 5 6- 7 


9 


a oe ee 


7781 6812 | 6021 $351 
7763 | .6798 1:6009 $341 
.7745 |.6784 |.5997 $330 |. 
7728 ;-6769 |-59R5 5320 
7110 1.6755 |-5973 -5310 
‘7692 :.6741 |.5961 ,.5300 
7674 '.6726 | 5949 | 5269 
; 7657 |.6712 1.5937 |.5279 I. 
"7639 |.6698 |.5925 15269 
-7622 | 6684 }-5913 |.5259 ,- 
.7604 1.6670 |.5902 |: 
;.7587 |.6656 |.5899 |.5239 |. 
7570. 1.6852 |.587B :.5229 1. 
"7552 |.6628 |.5866 5219 . 
.7535 |.6614 |.5855 :.5209 . 
.7518 |.6600 1.5843 :.5199 
7501 | 6587 |.5832 :.5189 :. 
.7484 6573 |.5630 '- 
.746? | 6559 !.5809 :.5169 |. 
T4514 6546 ..5797 1.5159 |. 
7434 |.6532 :.5786 1.5149 
-7417 |-6519 |.5774 $.5139 .. 
:7401 :-6505 |.5763 .5129 | 
7384 }.6492 |.5752 1.5120 |. 
-5740 |.5110 |. 
5729 }.5100 |. 
5718 |.5090 |. 


5706 |. 5081 


ae 
~ 
~~ 
wa 


3388 | 3010 
2382 | :3004 


3378 1.2998 
3368 |.2952 ° 


-3362 |.2986 


13355 |.2980 : 
3349 |.2974 | 
.3342 1.2968 | 
3336 |.2962 : 
3329 | 2956 | 
.3323 |, 2950 
3316 | 2944 
-3310 |, 2938 
3303 $,2933 
.3297 $2927» 
3291 (2938 | 


3284 1.2915 
"3278 2909 
3271 3.2603 
1. 3265. + 2897 


3258 .289) 
j-3252 .2885 


3246 .2880 
3239 2874 


-3233 1.2868 
"3227 1.2862 


1.3220 |. 2856 
‘.3214 4.2850 


_-3208 1.2845 
+3201 i-2839 
3195 |-2833 


wWeudtHiwn=-a - 


‘10 


wo 
>.) 


pares 


Diurnal Proportional Logarithms for finding the plancts’ placcs or time of conjunction of aspect 


eyes nie tee 


ay 


Ae ee 


; | DEGREES OF HOURS j 
Mia. | : ‘Min 
o : 4 ae 5 6 7 a) 10 | it 12 | 
Tre Soe : 1 7 | eo Bese ee. 
31 | 1.6670! 1.1993 | 0-9794 1.8341 -7254 1.6385 |-$662 |.5042 1.4499 !-4017 © 3583 +3189 |-2827 37 
32 | 1.6532 | 1.1946 | 0-9765 '.8320 .7238 !.6372 | 5651 | .5032 |-4491 °-4010 -3576 [-3183 |-2821 32 
33 | 1.6398 | 1.1899 | 0-9737 .8300 ,.7222 !.6359 |.5640 |-5023 {4482 -4002 -3570 1:3176 | 2816 33 
34 | 1.6269 | 1.1852 | 0-9708 :.8279 | .7206 !.6346 | 5629 1.5013 !.4474 |-3994 3563 /-3170 |-2810 34- 
35 | 1.6143 | 1.1806 | 0-9680 |.8259 .7190 |.6333 | S618 |.5003 |.4466 3987 ..3556 |-3164 |.2804 35 
36 | 1.6021 | 1.1761 | 0-9652 ;.8239 1.7174 |.6320 |. 5607 |-4994 | .4457 |-3979 -.3549 | 3157 1-2798 36 
37 3 1.5902 | 1.1716 ] 0.9625 |.8219 |.7159 |.6307 | 5596 |.4984 |.4449 |.3972° 3542 :-3151 |-2793 37 
38 =| 1.5786 | 1.1671 | 0.9597 |.8199 '-7143 }.6294 | 5585 |-4975 |.4440 |.3964 §.3535 |-3145 1.2787 38 
39 | 1.5673 | 1°1627 | 0.9570 |.8179 7128, |.6282 | .5574 |.4965 |-4432 |.3957 ..3529 :.3139 | 2781 '39 
40 | 1.5563 | 1.1584 | 0.9542 |.8159 7112 |.6269 | 5563 |.4956 |-4424 [3949-3522 :-3133 ]-2775 40 
41 1.5456 | 1.1540 | 0.9515 |. 8140 . 7097 |.6256 | .5552 |.4947 14415 | -3942 |.3595 3126 | .2770 44 
42 | 1.5351 | 1.1498 | 0.9488 |.8120 . 7081 |.6243 | 5541 |.4937 |-4407 |.3934 |-3508 }.3120 |-2764 42 
43 | 1.5249] 1.1455 | 0.9462 |. 8101 ; 7066 | 6231 |-5531 |-4928 | 4399 '.3927 |-3501 , 3114 |.2758 43 
44 | 1.5149 | 1.1413 + 0.9435 |.8081 , 7050 |.6218 |.5520 |-4918 |.4390 |.3919 3495 | -3108 | .2753 ‘44 
45 | 1,505t | 1.1372 | 0.9409 |.8062 ; -7035 |-6205 | 5509 |-4909 |. 4382 13942, 3488 |*3102 |.2747 45 
46 | 1.4956 | 1.1331 1 0.9383 |.8043 , 7020 |. 6193 |.5498 |-4900 --4374 “3905 ; 3481 ©3096 |-2741 46. 
47 | 1.4863} 1.1290 | 0.9356 |.g023 '.7005 |.6180 | 5488 |.4890 -4365 ..3897 .3475 ;-3089 | 2736 47 
48 | 1.4771 | 1.1249 | 0.9330 j-8004 | 6990 |.6168 |.5477 |-4881 -4357 ©-3890 !.3468 | 3083 |-2730 ‘48 
49 | 1.4682 | 1.1209 | 0.9305 |.7985 | 6975 |.6155 | 5466 | -4872 -4349. 3882 3461 -3077 ;.2724 49 
50 | 1.4594 | 1.1170 | 0.9279 |, 7966 , 6960 |-6143 | 5456 |.4863 4341 |. 3875 3454 | 3071 2719 50 
51 | 1.4508 | 1.1130 | 0.9254 |. 7947 | 6945 1.6131 | 5445 |-4853 |.4333 |. 3868-|.3448 | 3065 ;-2713 (51 
52 | 1.4424 1 1.1091 | 0.9228 |.7929 1.6930 |.6118 | 5435 |-4844 *-4324. |.3860 |.3441 '-3059 |-2707 “52 
$3 “| 1.4341 ! 1.1053 | 0.9203 |. 7910 | 6915 |. 6106 | 5424 4835 ,-4316 °-3853 '.3434 -.3053 |-2702 [53 
54 | 1.4260; 1.1015 | 0.9178 |-7891 1.6900 |.6094 | S414 '°4826 |-4308 :-38.16 3428-3047 |.2696 ‘54 . 
55 1.4180 ; 1.0977 ) 0.9153 |.7873 *.6885 |.6081 | 5403 | -4817 '-4300 |-3838 --3421 ° 3041 | 2691 55 
56 | 14102 | 1.0939 | 0.9128 |.7954 |/6871 1.6069 | 5393 |-4808 :.4292 /-3831 -3415 -3034 -2685 56 
57 | 1.4025 ; 1.0902 | 0.9104 |. 7836 |.6856 | .6057 | $382 [4798 ..4284 ,.3824 3408 .3028 2679 157 
$8 | 1.3949 © 1.0865 | 0.9079 -.7818 !-6841 -.6045 | 5372 |-4789 -4276 --3917 .3401 .-3022 ,-2674 |58 
§9 1 1.3875 ; 170828 | 0.9055 |-7800 ..6827 6033 |.5361 '-4780 “4268 |-3809 ..3395 © 3016 '-2668 59° 
pot fit ee pa a ee el ee. oe a0) Mh eS 


=) 


—_ 


” 


Proportfonat Logarithms—conid. 


17 


1498 
1493 
1489 
. 1485 
1481 
. 1476 


i 
| 


18 | 19 | 20 |: 21 
' i 
1249 | 1015 | 0792 | 0580 
1245 ! (oll | 0788 | 0577 
1241. | 1007 | 0785 | 0573 
1237 | 1003 | O78! 1 0570 
1233 | O99 | 0777. | 0566 
1229 , ov96 | 0774 | 0563 
1225. | 0992 | 0770 | 0539 
1221 | 0988 | O767 | 0556 
1217 | 0984 | 0763 | 0552 
1213 | 0980 | 0759 1 0549 
1209 | 0977 | 0756 | 0546 
1205 + 0973 | 0752 | 0542 
1201 | 0969 | 0749 | 0539 
1197 | 0965 | 0745 , 0535 
1193 | 0962 | 074) | 0532 
1190 ; 0958 | 0738 - 0529 
1186° | 0954 | 0734 | 0525 
1182 4 0950 | 0731 | 0522 
1178 | 0947 | 0727 | 0518 
1174 | 0943 | 0724 | 0535 
1170 | 0939 | 0720 | 0512 
1166 0935 0716 + 0508 
1162 | 0932 | 0713 | 0505 
1158 ! 0928 | 90709 | OSO1 
1154 | 0924 | 0706 | 0498 
1150 | 0920 | 0702 | 0495 
1146 | 0917 | 0699 | 0491 
1142 | 0913 | 0695 } 0488 
1138 | 0309 | 0692 | O4sd 
1134 | 0906 | 0688 | 0481 
1130 | 0902 | 0683 | 0478 


ane 


Min 
2 ‘; 23 | 
| 0378 ; 0185 | 0 
o37s | 0182 | 1 
0371 | 0179 | 2 
0368 | 0175 | 3 
036s | a%72 | 4 
0361 | G69 15 
0358 | ¢.56 16 
0355 | 6183 77 
0352 | 0160 [ 8 
0343 | 0157 | 9 
0345 | 0154 10 
0342 | O150 “111 
0339 | 0147 “112 
0335 | 0144 (13 
0332 | o141 {14 
0329 | 0138 {15. 
0326 | 0135 [16 
0322 | 0132 {17 
0319 | 0129 {1a 
9316 | 0126 119 
313 | 0122 |20 
9309 | 0119 121 
0306 | O16 122 
0303 | 0113 [23 
0300 | o110 (24 
0296 | o107 [25 
0293 | 0104 126 
0290 | o1o1 : (27 
0287 | 0098 (28 
02384 | 0095 
0280 | 0091 {30 


- WO 
na 


DEGREES OF HOURS : 


Proportional Logarithms—contd. . 


DEGREES OF HOURS 


Mia = Min 
| 1 is | 19 | 20 | m | 22 | 23 
Hj 2493 [2183 | 1894 | 1623 | 1368 | 1127 | 0898 fF 0681 | 0474 | 0277 [0088 [si 
32} 2488 | 2178 ; 1889 | 1619 ; 1364 | 1123 | 0894 1 0678 | 0471 | 0274 | O085 [32 
33 j 2483 | 2173 | 1885 | f614 | 1359 | 1119 | 0891 | 0674 | 0468 | 0271 | 0082 [33 
34 | 2477 | 2168 * 1880 ' 1610 | 1355 | 411s | 0887 | 0671 | 0464 § 0267 | 0079 134 
33 | 2472 , 2164 © 1875 | 1605 | 1351 | 1111 | 0883 , 0667 | O461 | O264 | 0076 (35 
36 | 2467 | 2159 | 1871 | 1601 | 1347 | 1107 | 0880 + 0663 : 0458 - 0261 | 0073 [36 
37 | 246] : 2154 | 1866 | 1597 | 1343 } 1103 ] 0876 | 0660 | 0454 | 0258 | 0070 [37 
38 | 2456 | 2149 1862 | 1592 1339 | 1099 | 0872 | 0656 j; 0451 | 0255 | 0067 |38 
39 | 2451 | 214g | 1857 | 1583 | 1335 | 1095 | 0869 | 0653 | 0448 | 0251 | 0064 [39 
40 | 2445 ; 2139 | 1852 | 1584 |. 1331 | 1091 | O865 | 0649 | O444 | 0248 | 0061 [40 
41 | 2440 : 2134 | 1848 | 1579 | 1326 | {088 | 0861 | 0646 | 0441 | 0245. | O058 |4] 
42 | 2435 § 2129 | 1843 | 1575 | 1322 | 1084 | o8s8 | 0642 | 0438 | 0242 | 035 142 
43 | 2430 | 2124: 1838 } 1571 | 1318 | 1080 | 0854 , 0639 | 0434 | 0239 | 6052 |43 
44. 2424 | 2119 1 1834 | 1566 | 1314 | 1076 | 0850 | 0635 | 0431 | 0236 | oa49 |44 
45 | 2419 | 2914 | 1829 | 1562 ; 1310 | 1072 | 0847 | 0632 | 0428 | 0232 | 0046 [45 
46; 2414 ; 2109 | 1825 | 1558 | 1306 | 1068 | 0843 | 0628 | 0424 | 0229 | 0042 [46 
47+ 2409 ; 2104 | 1820 | 1553 | 1302 | 1064 | 0839 | 0625 | 0421 | 0226 | 0039 [47 
48 | 2403 | 2099 : 1816 | 1549 | 1298 | 1061 {| 0835 | 0622 | 0418 | 223 | 0036 |48 
49 | 2398 2095 181) | 1525 1294 1057 0832 ; 0618 0414 0220 0033/49 
50 ' 2393; 2090 | 1806 : 1540. 1250 | 1053 0828 «+ 0615 0411 0216 0030 |S0 
St | 2388 | 2085 ; 1802 | 1536 | 1286 | 1049 | 0825 | O61L° | 0408 | 0213 | 0027 [31 
52 2382 | 2080 * 1797 j 1532 | 1282 | 1043 | 0821 | O608 0404 0210 0024 152 
$3 | 2377 | 2078 | 1793 | 1828 | 1278 | lo4l | O817 | o604 | 0401 | 0207 | O02! [53 
$4 | 2372 | 2070 - 1788 | 1523 | 1274 |. 1038 } 0814 | Q601 | 0398 | 0204 | 0018 [54 
55 | 2367 . 2065 1784 ; 1519 | 1270 | 1034 | Q810 | 0597 | 0394 | 0201 | O0I5 35 
$6.' 2362 ! 2061 ? 1779 | 1515 | 1266 | 1030 | O806 | 0594 | 0391 |.0197 | 0012 {56 
57 | 2356 | 2056 : 1774 | 1810 | 126t + 1026 | 0803 | 0590 | 0388 | 0194 | 9009 {57 
$8 | 2351 . 2051 ; 1770 ; 1506 | 1257 ; 1022 | 0799 | 0587 | 0384 | O191 | 0006 {58 
5912346 2046 +1765 | 1502 | 1253 | 1018 | 0795 583 | 0381 | 0188 , 0003 {59 
} 13 7 4; is j 16 | 17 4B 19 mm i at) 22 fo | 


Epilogue 


Dear Reader, in the previous pages an earnest attempt'has 
been made to present the quintessence of Indian Astrology, Astrol- 
opy is an ocean of wisdom and to get a masterly knowledge of it may 
require a diligent and intensive study under an expert teacher for at 
‘least LO years. Now it has become impossible to get such an occasion 
because there are neither such institutions noy such teachers where 
from the aspirants can master this science. There are professionals 
in Astrology but not Master teachers The only way left before the 
aspiring learn to pursue self-study of the available treatisés and im- 
bibe the ideas contained therein. Since you have got a broad and 
general idea about Astrology this knowledge will help you to glean 
the ideas from the following texts. Even-if you don't know Sanskrit 
you can get the gist of the books from their English translation or 
notes. For your reference -titles of a few such treatises are given 
below. ‘ : 

1.Bruhath Parasara hoara of sage Parasara 

2.Jaathaka Paarijatha of Sri Vaidyanaatha Deekshithar 

3.Phala Deepika of Manthraeswara 

4. Jaathaakabharana of Dhundiraaja 

5.Bruhajjaathaka of Sri Varahamihira 

6.Saaravali of Sri Kalyaanavarma 

7.Lagua chandrika of Sri Kaaseenath 

8.Prasna Marga 

9.Muhoortha chinthaamani 

10.Krishneeyam Edited by Prof.N.E.Muthuswamy (English) 

After this.you can start giving Astrological counselling with 
confidence to whoever approaches you. Wish you the best of luck. 


