A complete book on 


GEMS 
a 
STONES 


(vi) 


Planets Wave lengths Planets Wave lengths 
Sun 65,000 Saturn 65,000 
Moon 65,000 Rahu 35,000 
Mars 85,000 Ketu 35,000 
Mercury 65,000 

Jupiter 1,30,000 

Venus 1.30,000 


This book tells how wearing various gems, semi-precious 
stones, lockets, rings, talisman influence lives on the planet earth 
by nullifying evil influence of planetary configurations. It also 
throws light on the relationship of Astrology with gems and beings 


(v) 


Scientists also believe that every human body has a fixed 
ratio of the seven colours of the rays coming out of the planets 
and when one of the colours loses its potency the person falls 
ill. Naturopaths also follow the same principle and fill up water 
in bottles of a particular colour to cure the diseased person. 


It is not only the planetary configurations that affect the 
lives on the earth but events like eclipse and rising and setting 
of planets also guide the destiny of human beings. Human 
beings suffer from physical, mental and spiritual ways. Gems 
help by transmitting planetary rays into the body of the sufferer. 
They do not allow the negative rays of the planets filter through 
them and only benefic rays are allowed to enter the body. 
They thus act as a shield and guard against the evil influences 
of planets. When radiation is applied to gem stones, they 
record the following wave lengths. 


Planets Gems Gems Wave length 
Sun Ruby Ruby 70,000 
Moon Pearl (white) Pearl 70,000 
Mars Coral (red) Red coral 65,000 
Jupiter Sapphire (yellow) Emerald 75,000 
Mercury Emerald Yellow sappire 50,000 
Venus Diamond Diamond 60,000 
Saturn _—_ Blue sapphire Blue sappire 79,000 
Rahu Gomeda Gomeda 70,000 
Katu Cat's eyes Cat's eye 70,000 


The gems to be worn must be suitable, of proper size, weight 
and hardness and are to be worn on a suitable period of the transit 
of planets after offermg prayers and giving alms. One can wear 
them as talisman or amulet. 


Gems are in fact minerals and found in mines in various 
forms. They are formed because of certain physical and 
chemical changes inside the crest due to heat and pressure. 
They chiefly contain carbon, barium, aluminium, calcium, 
zinc, tin, hydrogen, phosphorus, magnise, potassium, sodium, 
iron, etc. Gems are stones, but they are costly precious stones. 
Some of the gems are divine. They are available because of 
some ascetic's penance and through his divine power. 
Mythological books are full of their references of Swamantak 
Mani, Kousthubh Mani and Chintamani Pearl. The last ones 
are formed when rain drops get dry in air. Some ancient 
astrologers believed that some divine gems or pearls drop 
from sky but they are taken away by dames before they reach 
the earth. We often hear that during the constellation of swat i, 
if rain drops fall upon oyster-shells, they turn into pearl. 


Gems arc known to have not only curative power, they 
bring in prosperity in one's life, improve health, raise one's 
status in society and bring in name and fame by driving away 
the evil influence of planets. 


Horoscope of a person prepared on the basis of one's birth 
time can throw light on the various aspects of his/her life- the 
nature, age, prospects, etc. And if there are afflictions, they 
can be countered effectively by prayer or other astral remedies 
like wearing gemstones. 


Modern science will have nothing of it but Ayurveda and, 
for that matter, Astrology, considers that one falls ill not only 
because of bacteria but also due to his/her karmas, i.e. sins 
committed in the previous birth having their repercussions 
during the present life in the form of diseases or ill luck. Gems 
have great attributes of curing diseases. In Ayurveda and Unani 
system of medicines gems are burnt and used in powder form. 
In the homeopathy system of medicines, gems are used to 
prepare mother tincture. 


Contents 


Ch. No. 


1. 


2. 
3. 


Gems—their history is too old 
Gems—their types 

Varahamihir on gems 

More gems 

How gems affect human lives? 

Where are jewels formed? 
Famous gem mines in the world 

World famous diamonds 

Role of colours in human lives 
What colours signify? 

Birth numbers, colours and suitable gems 
Birthday gems based on Zodiac signs 

Stars and gemstones 

Numbers and gemstones 


Numerology and gems 


88 


First letter of names and gems recommended 92 


17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
vATE 


(viii) 
Aspicious times for wearing gems 
Consecration before wearing stones 
Influence of planets 
Therapeutic use of gems 


Rudraksh beads 


98 
100 
109 
130 
169 


1 


Gems-theirhistory is too old 


Gems have been known to man for thousands of years, 
not only in India but other countries like Greece. According 
to Agni Puran, when the great demon Vatrasur attacked the 
heaven and drove away gods from there, Lord Vishnu advised 
the god-king Indra to go and beseech bones from the self- 
negating saint, Maharishi Daddhichi. The story goes that the 
saint forsook his own life and it was with his bones that the 
gods prepared a weapon (Vajra) to kill the demon. It is said 
when the weapon was used against Vatrasur and hit him, it 
broke his body into pieces and those pieces fell upon the earth 
and later got transformed into various gems. Diamond is 
supposed to have originated from saga's bones. 


According to Hindu mythology there is one more version. 
When the nectar was taken out of the sea, demons possessed 
it and ran away with it and gods chased them. In the melle 
that followed, some of the nectar drops fell upon the earth. 
Later those drops were transformed into precious stones. 
Hindu mythology speaks of yet another source of gems. It is 
said therein that once the demon king Bali was approached 
by the god-king Indra, dressed up as an innocent Brahmin 
and seeking an animal for atonement. Indra pleaded with king 
Bali to become an animal so that he could offer him in sacrifice 
to complete his yagna. Now Bali knew that he could not be 
killed because of a boon he had already acquired. So he 
playfully agreed to India's request. Indra knew about the boon 


10 A complete book on getns 


and so he struck at his head rather than Bali's body with his 
Vajra and blew away the demon king's body to pieces. Those 
pieces got scattered all over the earth and it is said that from 
his bones were formed Diamonds, from teeth Pearls, from 
his blood Ruby, from gall bladder Emerald, from eyes Blue 
Sapphires, from heart bright blue Lapis Lajuli, from bone 
marrow Zircon, from nails Cats Eye, from fat Rock-Crystal, 
from semen Bheeshma, from his flesh coral and from his skin 
Yellow Sapphire. 


It is further said that out of those stones Rahu preferred to 
take away Zircon and Ketu Lapis Lajuli. Sun took away Ruby, 
Moon liked Pearls, Mars Coral, Mercury Emeralds, Jupiter 
Yellow Sapphire, Venus Diamonds and Saturn Blue Sapphire. 


Varahamihira, the ancient astrologer, also writes about the 
demon-king Bali and gems and jewels. 


In ancient times people faithfully believed that the various 
gems were formed out of the body of the demon-king Bali 
after he was struck by Vajra. 


Diamonds came out from the forehead of demon king. 
Pearls were made from his head. 

Rubies were produced from the blood . 

Emeralds were created from bilejuice. 

Corals were formed from the blood drops falling into sea. 
Yellow sapphires-These were produced of his flesh. 
Blue sapphires-Eye balls developed into them. 
Moon-stones were formed from other parts of the eyes. 
Cat's eye were created from the sacred thread. 


Bheeshshma Pashshaan-These were created from the 
semen drops. 


Gems—their history is too old I] 
Lapis Lajuli were created from hair. 


Touch-stones--They were created as the chest dropped on 
the ground. 


Crystals—They were created out of the sweat drops. 
Bheeshsmaks-They were formed as the head was severed. 


Ghrecta Mani-These were made from the belly of the 
demon. 


There is also reference of gems in Vishnu Purana, which 
is supposed to have been written about 200 years before Christ. 
India was even known to export diamonds and other quality 

jewels, gems and precious stones many hundred years before 

Romans started doing so. The Peacock Throne of the Mughal 
emperors in India, which was decorated with gold, diamonds 
and and" pearls, was so well-known that the Persian king 
invaded .ndia and took it away to his land along with other 
pearls and diamonds. The “Blue Hope Diamond" was found 
in south Golconda and is now lying in Smithsonian institute 
in the US. 


Gems were equally known and popular in the West. The 
great empress Cleopatra was supposed to have welcomed the 
Roman emperor, Julius Caesar, in a hall which was furnished 
with choiest jewels and gems. One famous writer from Greece 
who lived in 287 before Christ had written a book on diamonds 
and precious stones. Another Roman writer Pliny. who lived 
between 62 and 113 A.D., in his famous book, Natural History, 
has written in great detail about gems. According to him 
merchants from Rome, Greece and other parts of the world 
assembled in a port in Egypt and bought and sold jewels and 
other precious stones. 


In the 13th century Marcopolo toured a number of 
countries- Ceylon (now Sr Lanka), India, China and 


12 A complete book on gems 


Burma—and has written that gems and other treasures were 
traded in those countries. 


One French merchant who dealt in jewels visited a number 
of countries including India, Iran and Turkey. He went as far 
as Golkunda in deep South (now Andhra Pradesh) and visited 
the mines there. He has given a vivid account of his travels. 
According to him as many as one lakh workers were engaged 
in mining in Golkunda. 


Golkunda mines produced diamonds in large numbers in 
the 17th century and attracted world's attention and did large 
business. But now those mines are closed as Krishna and 
Godavari rivers no more provide diamonds. At present 
diamonds are found in India in the pits of Panna. They are 
providing diamonds weighing about ten lakh carat. But experts 
who are on the job are of the opinion that the pits can offer 
diamonds two or three-fold more than what we are getting at 
present. 


Now diamond mines have been discovered in Brazil 
(South America), South Africa, Australia, British Gyana, 
Conga and Belgium. Brazil discovered its diamond mines 
around 1975. One of it has the credit to produce the largest 
diamond piece, weighing 3085 carat, in the world. South 
Africa discovered its mines around 1867. Brazil and South 
Africa today are the leading nations trading in diamonds, 
thereby pushing India in a tight comer. 


(Gems—their types 


In Hindu mythology there are hundred types of gems worn 
by gods but out of them the following 84 arc important to 
human beings. 


Amongst them, nine-Ruby, Pearl, Coral, Emerald, Yellow 
or White Sapphire (Pukhraj), Diamond, Blue Sapphire, 
Gomedha and Cat's Eye-occupy foremost positions. 


Five of them-Ruby, Pearl, Diamond, Emerald and Blue 
Sapphire—are termed as most superior gems and classed as 
semi-precious stones. 


The eighty-four gems are: 


1. 


Ruby or Maanaikya: This is ofred colour and is a 
costly precious stone. Ruby is found generally in rosy, 
blackish and skylike colours. Sun favours this gem. It 
has to be more than 24 ratti in weight. 

Diamond: This is also a costly stone and is found in 
yellow, white, red, rosy, blue, pink colours. This is a 
gem for Venus. 

Blue Sapphire: This gem is found in ordinary or dark 
light blue colours. This is for Saturn. 

Emerald: This is of bottle green colour and of tarnish 
white colour. It is Mercury's favourite. 

Cat's Eye: This is yellowish or blackish in colour like 
that of cat. Inside this stone is visible a shining band 


14 


13. 


14. 


16. 


A complete book on gems 


which moves when the stone is turned. Because of 
the quality it is also known as Sutra Mani. This is to 
please Ketu. 

Coral: Generally Corals are found in red and light red 
colours. White Corals are also available. It invites 
power of Mars. 

Pearl: This is of white light pink, yellow or black 
colour. Rosy coloured pearls are also secn. It attracts 
Moon's favour. 

Yellow sapphire: This is found in yellow, both dark 
and light, white and blue colours. Actually the one 
having blue colour becomes Blue Sapphire. It is also 
called Pushparage. This is Jupiter's favourite. 
Turquoise: This is found in sky colour w ith a greenish 
tinge. 


- Gomedha or Neelam: It is like red coloured smoke. 


Its colour may be of honey or that of urine of the cow. 
This is Rahu's favourite. 


. Lalr hi: This has the colour of the rose petal or deep 


pink. 


. Opal: This is found in all colours. The one with white 


colour has also slight sparklings of other colours. ft is 
a soft stone, a semi-gem of pearl. 

Peridot: This has a very light green parrot like colour. 
It is used in place of Pearl. 

Tourmaline: This is a soft stone and is available in 
red. yrcen. brown and white colours. This is a very 
effective semi-gem stone and has many qualities. 


. Spinel Ruby: This is found in darkish and yellowish 


red colour. 

Topaz. This is also called Citrine. This is found in 
light golden colour. But golden Topaz looks very 
attractive. it can be used in place of Yellow Sapphire. 
It is a favourite of Jupiter. 


Gems—their types 15 


17 


18. 


19 


20. 


ZL, 


22. 


23% 


24. 


2s 


26. 


2h 
28. 


29. 


30. 


Amethyst: This is of light or dark violet colour. It is 
used to please Satur. 

Gold Stone: This is found in orange red, red colour 
with spots of golden colour. This is a very soft and 
weak stone. It is also called Sangsitara. 

Rock Crystal: This is of shining white colour. Lf cut 
finely it looks like white Topaz. It is transparent. 
Moon Stone: This has the colour of a white cloud or 
as the tooth of the cow. Inside the stone there is a 
glistening band which rolls when the stone is turned. 
Romni: This is a soft gem of dark red colour with a 
blackish tinge. 

Garnet. This is of blackish red colour. It is used in 
place of Ruby. 

Ludhya: This is of deep red colour. It is a semi-gem 
of Ruby. 

Maryam: This is of shining white colour. 

Load Stone: This is also called Chakmak stone. This 
is of white colour lending to be blackish and produce 
fire when rubbed together. 

Sindooria: This is of light rosy colour or pink with 
white tinge. It can be used in place of Corals. 

Neeli: This is a soft stone and looks like Blue Sapphire. 
Smoky Quartz: This is of smoky light golden colour. 
It can be used for Blue Sapphires. 

Aquamarine: This is a gem of light green colour. It is 
mistaken for Emerald. Aquamarine is more transparent 
than Emerald and is much less expensive. 

Jade: This is of green colour but without brilliance or 
lustre. It is a very cheap stone and is hard. 


- Blood Stone: This is of green colour with blood like 


red spots on it. It is a semi-gem of Emerald with often 
red spots. 


16 


32. 


A complete book on gems 


Baanshi: This is a soft stone of green colour. 


3 3. Durvenajf: This has the colour of unripe paddy. It can 


34. 


ony 
36. 


37. 


be polished. 

Tursava: It is a soft stone of yellowish red or pink 
colour. 

Ahwa: This is a stone of pink with spot in it. 
Savore: This is a stone of green colour with a brown 
stripe on it. It is Emerald group. 

Lapis Lazuli: This is a soft stone of blue colour. In 
ancient times in the Western countries this was 
recognised as Blue Sapphire. 


3 8. Kudurat: This is of black colour with dots of yellowish 


aos 


40. 


41. 


42. 


43. 


44. 
4S. 


46. 


47. 


48. 


49. 


and whitish colour. 

Chitti: This is a stone black in colour with a stripe of 
gold like colour. It is a semi-gem. 

Suleimani (Onxy): \tis a gem of black colour with a 
white stripe on it. 
Alaimani: It is of grey colour; belongs to the Suleimani 
family. 

Jajemani: It also belongs to the Suleimani family. It 
is of grey colour with a white stripe on it 

White Jade: This is a white stone with the hue of 
graphs and other colours. 

Laroo: This is a kind of marwar stone. 

Marwar: This semi-gem of Coral is found in three 
colours—bamboo like, red and white. 

Kidney Stone: This is of light green colour like that of 
pista. 

Halan: This is a stone of rosy colour. The colour rolls 
when the stone is moved. 

Seejri: This is a stone of white colour giving the 
impression of tree on its body. 

Kasauti: This is of black colour and is used for testing 
the purity of gold. 


Gems—their types 17 


50. 


51. 


52: 


Do: 


54. 


25; 


56. 


Os 


58. 
59; 


60. 


61. 


62. 


63. 
64. 


65. 


Darchana: It is of the colour of cinnamon. 
Haqiq-al-bahar: This comes out from watery places. 
The colour of this stone is yellowish green. Necklaces 
are generally made of it 

Mubenjaif: This is a stone of white colour with hair- 
thin black line or lines. 

Amber (Kahruba): This is of dull whitish colour or 
red. 

Jhana: This is a very soft moon stone. A touch of 
water destroys the stone. 

Sang-Basri: This is used for making surma (a 
medicinal grey powder) for eyes. It is a favourite of 
Saturn. 

Daantla: This is of yellow colour, looks like old couch- 
shells. 

Makhra: This is a black stone with an impression of 
spider's web on it. It is used to appease Saturn. 
Sangeeya: This is of white colour like conch-shell. 
Gouri: This is also available in various colours and 
forms, generally used by mendicants. It has white 
stripe. This is used for making measuring weights for 
the jewellers. 

Seeya: This is of the black colour used for making 
statues. 

Somaack: This is of red colour with a yellowish tinge. 
There are rosy coloured sprinklings on it This is used 
for making mortars in which medicines are grinded. 
Goodri: Now-a-days this is a favourite, stone in 
Muslim religion. It is of grey colour. 

Kamla: This is of whitish green colour. 

Cyphery: Its colour is like a mixture of green and sky 
blue; it is a gem of Saturn. 

Hareed: It is grayish black. It is used for making 
rosaries. 


18 


66. 


67. 


68. 


69. 


70. 


71, 


72, 


fine 


74. 
73:3 


76. 


yee 


78. 


ID: 


80. 


A complete book on gems 


Havvas: This is of green colour with a golden tinge. It 
is used as medicine. 

Seengli: This belongs to the Ruby family, but it is much 
softer and inexpensive. This is of red colour inclined 
to blackishness. 

Dhedi: This is of black colour used for making cups 
and saucers, etc. Idols and garlands are also made of 
it. 

Agate (Hakeek): This is found in various colours. It is 
a very inexpensive but lasting stone. It is considered 
very auspicious. It is also used as a birth stone. 
Moosa: White dusty colour, used for making bowls. 
Pandhan: Black with greenish tingo, used for making 
toys. 

Amleeya: \t is of pink and blackish colour used for 
making mortars. 

Door: It is of pale brown colour like catechu, used for 
making mortars. 

Liliar: It is of black colour used for making mortars 
Khaaraa’ It is of black colour with green shades and 
is used for making mortars. 

Paaraa Jahar: \t has the colour of a white bamboo. It 
has great medical properties in healing wounds. 
Gypsum: It is of dusty colour like clay. It is used in 
making dolls. 

Paras: If it touches iron, it is turned into gold. This is 
a rare stone and nobody has acquired it. 

Zahar Mohra: Greenish in colour. it is believed that 
if poison is put in a cup made of this mineral. it loses 
its evil effect. 

Ravaat: This is found in red and blue colours, but red 
one is important. It is used to lower temperature if 
fixed in arm pit. 


Gems—their types 19 


81. Sohan Makhkhi: Looks like white clay. It is considered 
useful for urinary troubles. 

82. Hazrat-e-vodh: Black in colour, it is used for making 
medicines for eyes in the Unani system of medicine. 
It appeases Saturn. 

83. Surma: It is of black colour. Its powder is applied in 
eyelids. 

84. Godanta (Cow ’ teeth): Found in cow teeth colour with 
yellowish tinge. It is used to appease Rahu. 


According to Indian gemmology all these have been 
recognised as such. 


It is possible that many of them may be known in various 
countries by different names. 


From amongst the eighty-four gem stones mentioned 
above, all are not related to the planets. The main gem stones 
suitable for use for remedial purposes for planetary affliction 
are nine-Ruby. Pearl, Coral, Yellow Sapphire, Emerald, 
Diamond. Blue Sapphire, Gomcdha and Cat's Eye. 


The stones that can be used for planetary afflictions 
because of their colour, lustre and the beliefs, durability, 
hardness about them are as follows: Topaz, Spinel, Turquoise, 
Moonstone, Garnet, Neeli. Aquamarine, Jade, Blood Stone, 
Lapis-Lazuli and Agate. 


(arahamihir on gems 


Ancient books have given details of all the gems, but 
Varahamihir, one of the greatest ancient scholars, in Ratna 
Dipika, has mentioned only 22 types of gems. They are given 


below: 
Agate 
Azure Stone 
Blue Sapphire 
Cat's Eye 
Coral 
Diamond 
Jyoti Rasa 
Opal 
Rasmani 
Sasyara 
Vimlara 


Methodist 
Blood Stone 
Brahama Man 
Conch 
Crystal 
Emerald 
Moon Stone 
Pearl 

Ruby 
Saogandhrika 
Yellow Sapphire 


Some important gems according to the saint: 


Diamond: Diamonds found on the banks of Vena river 
were of the purest kind. Those mined in Koushala had the 
lustre of the Sirisa flower, those from Saurashtra had a reddish 
lustre, those from Saupara country were dark in colour, those 
from the Himalayan regions were slightly reddish, those from 
Matanga country had pale-white colour, those from Kalinga 
were yellowish, and those from Paundra were black. 


Varahamihir on gems 2] 


It is difficultnow to locate all these places with the above 
names, but it does prove that mines of gemstones were in 
existence in India in ancient times. 


According to many ancient religious books Diamonds are 
presided over by gods. 


A white hexagonal Diamond is presided over by Indra, a 
dark one of the shape of the snake's mouth by Yama, one 
with the bluish yellow colour by Vishnu, one having the colour 
ofkarnikara flower by Varuna, a triangular one of the colour 
of tiger's eye by fire, one having the shape of barley corn and 
the hue of Ashoka flower by Vayu. 


Diamonds have been divided caste-wise also. White 
Diamonds are auspicious for Brahmins, red-yellow ones for 
Khatriya, those of whitish yellow colour by Vaishyas and those 
with dark colour for Shudras. 


A Diamond is believed to be beneficial to its owner, if it 
cannot be cut by any other substance, is light, cleaves through 
water like a ray of light and does not change its lustre to 
lightening. 


The Diamonds that show scratches, are mixed with 
coloured substances and have double facets are burnt. 


Perforated, discoloured, lustreless, covered with bubbles, 
split at the points and oblong in shape are treated as 
inauspicious. 


Ruby: According to Varahamihir Rubies are born of 
sulphur, kurvinda and crystal. Those got out of sulphur exhibit 
the lustre of bees, lily or rose apple. Those that are got from 
kuruvinda are of pale lustre and mixed with mineral 
substances, and those from crystal are multi-coloured, lustrous 
and pure. 


The general qualities of all excellent Rubies are lustre 


22, A complete book on gems 


with rays, purity, smoothness, sparkle, heaviness, fine shape, 
brilliance within and existing bright redness. 


Stones are defective if they are of dull lustre, full of 
scratches, mixed with mineral substances, broken, not 
attractive and mixed with gravel. 


The Ruby obtained from the head of a serpent which has 
the hue of a bee or peacock's neck and which shines like the 
flame of a lamp is of inestimable value. 


Anyone who wears such Ruby will be a multi-millionaire; 
he will never be defeated anywhere and will lead a royal life. 
Ruby is the most wonderful gem. 


Pearl: Pearls are from conch shells, serpents, elephants, 
pearl oysters, clouds, bamboos, whales and hogs; the best one 
is the one which comes out from pearl-oyster. 


Eight types of Pearls have been mentioned by Varahamihir 
: (1D) Simhalaka, (2) Parloka, (3) Saurash' a. (4) Tamraparni 
river, (5) Parusava, (6) a northern country, (7) Pandya Vataka 
and (8) the Himalayas. 


The Pearls from Simhalaka were glossy, multi-shaped. 
swanwhite and large and bright, those from Parloka were 
blackish, while or yellow and were uneven, those from 
Saurashtra were neither big nor too small and with the lustre of 
butter; those from Tamraparni river were white with a slight 
red tinge, those from Parusava were lustrous, clear, heavy and 
very valuable and of superior quality, those from the northern 
country were rough, black and white, of good size and brilliance, 
those from Pandya-vataka were like the neem fruit and very 
small in size and those from Himalayas were light, curdlike 
in appearance, large and double-shaped. 


Dark Pearl is for Vishnu, one like the moon for Indra; 
yellow for Varuna; black for Yama, red for Vayu and one 


Varahamihir on gems 23 


having the brilliance of smokeless fire or the lustre of lotus 
for Agni. 


Very valuable and lustrous like moon was the Pearl bom 
of the root of elephant's tusks. 


The Pearl obtained from whales resembled a fish's eye, 
was large, pure and of great value. 


It was said that the Pearl was produced in the clouds of 
seventh layer of the wind in the sky in the manner of hail 
stones. Such pearls never reached the earth. A Pearl got from 
the serpents is valuable. It destroyed all misfortunes and 
enemies and enhanced reputation. 


The Pearl from bamboo was flat and uneven, and that 
from conch was round, lustrous, and moonlike. 


All the above categories of Pearls were considered to be 
extremely valuable and were believed to bestow popularity, 
wealth, renown on the wearers, and were destroyers of grief 
and diseases. 


Emerald: It is said that an Emerald of the hue of parrot's 
wings, bamboo leaves, banana trunk and of good quality with 
smoothness and purity was highly beneficial to people when 
they wore it at ceremonies performed in honour of gods. Some 
of them are used as birth stones. 


Mo 


re 
Y ems 


Apart from the earlier mentioned eighty-four gems and 
precious stones, there are a few more gems being used the 
world over. 


Alexandrite: This stone was discovered in Ural mountain 
in Russia in 1830 and named after Caesar Alexander II who 
was the ruler there at that time. This unique stone changes 
colour; it shines like cinders in candle light and looks green 
during day time. An auspicious stone, it is used in talisman 
and amulets. 


Apatite: This soft stone is transparent and is used often 
in place of Blue Sapphire. 


Angle site: The soft, yellowish semi-jewel belongs to 
Yellow Sapphire group and is considered auspicious. 

Albite: Belonging to Moonstone group, it looks like a 
Diamond. 


Adamantive: Belonging to the Diamond group, it is found 
in blue, yellow and green tinges. 


Aveniurine quartz: Red, grey and light yellow coloured, 
it is used in place of Rubis. It has also medicinal value. 


Adularia: This transparent stone sometimes is used for 
Diamonds; was discovered in Switzerland's Adulaar locality. 


Amazonite: Found first from the Amazon river of 
America, these stones are of light green or light blue colour. 


More gems 25 


Azuritc: These gems belong to the Opal group and act in 
lieu of the joint influences of Emerald and Blue Sapphire; 
green stripes run in the middle of these gems which are violet 
in colour. 


Aragonite: These are available in yellow, grey and blue 
colours with broad stripes across the body. It belongs to the 
category of Akeek stones. 


Almandine: Belonging to the Garnet category, it exudes 
flashes of red and yellow used in place of Rubies. It can also 
be used as a medicine. 


Brazillianite: A product of mines in Brazil, this gem is 
transparent and yellow in colour. 


Berillonite: A semi-jewel of Diamonds, it is colourless 
and transparent. 


Bronzite: Containing iron, it is generally found in red or 
honey or gray/black colours. 


Baryet: It is grey, yellow and in many colours. 


Blue Topaz: Blue in colour, it is also worn in place of 
Blue Sapphire. 


Blue Zircon: It is used in place of Blue Sapphire. 
Benitoite: It is a copy of Blue Sapphire. 

Chrysocolla: An Opal group stone, it is green in colour. 
Citrine: This stone is used in place of Yellow Sapphire. 


Celestine: Generally colourless, it is sometimes found 
with milky white, yellow, orange and blue tinges. This stone 
is hard. It is also used in place of Diamonds. 


Casseterite: A transparent colourless stone, it is hard and 
used in place of Diamonds. 


Cal site: A product of the mines of marble and lime, it is 
colourless and a semi-precious stone. 


26 A complete book on gems 


Carnelian: It is translucent and is available in Brazil and 
European countries in red and orange colours. It can be used 
for Coral. 


Chrysophrase: This stone is translucent and apple green 
in colour; is mainly used in Greece. 


Dematoid: Mainly found in Ural mountains, it has light 
green tinge. It has a golden glaze around it. 


Danburite: It is generally or sometimes found with 
yellowish tinge. Many usc it in place of Yellow Sapphire. 


Diopside: This stone contains iron and magnesium. It 
looks bottle green in colour. 


Dumortierite: Found in the US or France, it is one of the 
rock-crystal group of stones. It is a semi-gem of Turquoise. 


Dolomite: Generally colourless stone, though a yellowish 
shadow comes out of it. It is found in the mines of Italy. 


Dumortiorite: A semi-gem of Turquoise. 


Epidote: A transparent, deep yellow, grey and green stone, 
mostly found in France, Austria and Russia. 


Fire Agate: It looks like living cinders. It can be worn in 
place of Corals. 


Green Zircon: Belonging to the Zircon group of stones, 
it is used in place of Emeralds. 


Green Garnet: A semi-precious stone, it is mostly used 
in garlands. 


Green Sapphire: A dark green, hard stone of the Sapphire 
group. 

Goshenite: A colourless jewel; it has glaze. 

Green Topaz: This soft stone can be cut to any shape. 


Hclidor: Worn in place of Yellow Sapphire, it is also soft 
and cut to sizes and shapes. 


More gems ZT 
Hessonite: It is used in place of Zircon. 


Hawk's Eye Quartz: Belonging to the Cat's Eye group, 
it is used often by men who deal in occult science to attract 
people. 


Ivory: The engraved artefacts made of animal tusks of 
teeth or bones are called Ivory. According to legends. some 
animals are capable of wielding miraculous powers. Hence 
these gems arc used for researches according to the tenets of 
the tantra. 


Iolite: These jewels are deep sky blue or violet in colour. 
They are also called water sapphire. It is a semi-jewel for 
Saturn. 


Jasper: It has deep, multi-coloured stripes and spots on 
the body. 


Jadeite: This hard, costly stone is for making weapons 
and instruments. In the US, it is used for treatment of kidneys. 


Kunjite: It can be used for Diamond. It is available in 
pink. yellow. light green and grey colours. 


Kornerupine: It is mostly found in green or pink colours. 

Labrodorite: This stone is available from the mines of 
Finland, Norway and Russia. 

Liddicoalite: It may be used in place of Navaratna. 

Melnite: It can be worn in place of Diamond. 


Morganite: It is pink or violet in colour and has a very 
charming shine and can be worn in place of Rubies. 


Phenakite: A hard, colourless. transparent stone, found 
mostly in Greece and creates the illusion of being the rock- 
crystal stone. 


Pink Sapphire: Mostly found in the mines of Sri Lanka, 
Myanmar and the African countries. The jewel is of high 
quality. 


28 A complete book on gems 


Prehnite: It is a semi-jewel of Yellow Sapphire group, 
often found in oily yellow and green colours. 


Phosphophylite: It is a precious stone with brilliant shine; 
formed in Germany and the United States. Can be used for 
Diamond and Emeralds. 


Pink Topaz: This Topaz family member can be used in 
place of Yellow Sapphire and Emerald. 


Rhododine: A smooth stone in pink colour and often used 
as Coral. 


Rose Quartz: It is often used in place of Rubies. 


Serpentine: It gives the illusion of being Jade or Onyx, 
which are all green and transparent. It can be used ini place of 
Emeralds. It is basically magnesium silicate. 


Sinhalite: A semi-jewel of Yellow Sapphire; also 
available in yellow, grey and light green colour. 


Stautolite: It is found in grey and black colours. Can be 
used in place of Zircon and Blue Sapphire. It is highly 
effective. 


Scheelite: It is a glittering jewel, often looks like a yellow 
Topaz and many times like a transparent colourless gem. 


Spodumene: Generally found in pink, grey and yellow 
colours. Its transparent ray is charming. It can be used in place 
of Ruby. 


Sard: With red colour, it can be worn in place of Emerald. 


Sard-Onyx: It is available in red, grey colour and is very 
soft on which sculpting is possible. Many artistic drawing 
and designs have been engraved on this stone. 


Scapolite: A colourless stone generally. It is also called 
Wemerite. It is found in pinkish grey and blue colours and 
can be used in place of Blue Sapphires 


More gems 29 


Sillimanite: It is found in the US and can be worn in 
place of Blue Sapphires. 


Spehalerite: It is a transparent jewel which emits shines 
like Diamonds. Generally yellow, it is sometimes used for 
Yellow Sapphire. 


Spinel: This stone is found in many colours, red, pink, 
yellow, blue, dark grey and black. It is not found in India. 


Sodalite: It is a jewel with high degree of sodium in it. It 
is found in deep blue and violet colours and can be used in 
place of Blue Sapphires. 


Shell: This was used as currency for buying and selling 
goods in ancient times. 


Tugtupite: Belonging to the Tourmaline group of jewels, 
it is found in two colours so far-light white and pink. 


Taaffeite: A rare jewel, it is as costly as Diamond. 
Titanite: It can be worn in place of Yellow Sapphire. 


Uvarovite: Belonging to Garnet group, it looks black 
outwardly but when chiselled, green coloured jewels come 
out of its blocks. It can be used in place of Emeralds. 


Yellow Turmoline: A very soft jewel which gets scratches 
very easily. It is the silicate and borate of alumina and iron. It 
has many colours. 


Zoisite: Found in the mines of Tanzania and other parts 
of east Africa, it is generally found in blue and violet colours; 
often produces the illusion of Sapphire group of gems, which 
it does not belong to. 


How gems affect human fivesQ 


Gems have curative power. They have elemental power 
to pour in fortune, too. by driving away evil impact of planets, 
Some of them have magical powers to heal. to make life 
happier by gearing up prosperity, status, knowledge, good 
health and name and fame. 


Westerners believe that amber (a yellowish translucent 
fossilized resin gotten from dead trees and used in jewellery) 
cures rheumatism. For them jewels have been made of the 
tear drops of a Greek god. Germans make their infants wear 
garlands of ambers around their necks. In Turkey there exists 
the belief that jewels destroy germs. In Greece they believe 
that if they drink in cups made of amethyst, it does not make 
them intoxicated. Romans used chains made of Coral pieces 
to nullify evil effects of planets. In Greece woman wear Blue 
Sapphires to avoid impure things entering their minds. 


All one has to do it to chose the correct gem and wear it at 
the appropriate time after completing necessary rituals. 


Sun-rays have seven colours which influence human life 
in many ways. There is close relationship between colour and 
light. The living beings in the world and others take up their 
colours from the seven colours of the Sun. The planets are 
also seven in number: so are the days in a week and also the 
prominent gems from which are produced many other semi- 

jewels or semi-precious stones. 


How gems affect human lives’ 31 


For example ultra-violet rays of the Sun do harm human 
body. If a person wears a piece of Ruby on his/her person, the 
Ruby would keep those rays oft" from the human body and 
thus the human arteries and veins would function normally. 
Like sun, planets also send rays which affect human life on 
earth. Gem and jewels have been worn from ancient times, 
not only for make-up or to display wealth but also as a means 
to cure ailments. 


The ancient Ayurvedacharyas used gems in the form of 
ashes and powder to treat human beings. Likewise, astrologers 
have been taking into account the powers of gems. Varaha- 
mihira, the great astrologer of his time, has recognised the 
miraculous affect of gems and jewels. It is mentioned in 
ancient books that ifone wears a favourable gem, he reaps 
benefits. But if an unfavourable gem is worn, it brings in bad 
days. 


Here are brief accounts of how each gem stone (arranged 
alphabetically for the converience of the readers) helps: 


Alexandrite: This costly gem is available in various 
shades of green and looks dark in artificial light. It can give 
the wearer good luck, prosperity and magical powers. 
Particular gainers arc those who are conducting research like 
scientists, mathematicians, atomic scientists and explorers. It 
will protect the wearer from following useless pursuits and 
his energies will be properly channelised and fruitfully utilised. 
But those who cannot hold on to their own judgements and 
are easily swayed by the influence of others or those who are 
afraid to defy social conventions for fear of criticism should 
not wear it. It makes the wearer bold, adventurous or helps 
him lake bold decisions. 


Amethyst (neelamani): This purple or violet-coloured 
transparent stone wards off the tendency in persons to switch 
over from one activity to another, protects the wearer from 


32 A complete book on gems 


sudden and unexpected happenings, dangers of witchcraft and 
evil spirits. It imparts financial stability and teaches to manage 
financial affairs. It is also good for managers, computer 
scientists and financial experts, particularly those engaged in 
major or big enterprises. It is beneficial for those who were 
bom in the month of January or February of any year and for 
Pisces (those born between February 21 and March 20), 
particularly those who may wish to obtain professional 
advancement and long life. They would develop magnetic 
personality and would be able to win over the opposite sex 
with ease, with the use of this gem. They would acquire 
happiness and undying love and affect ion, and protection from 
excessive indulgences like intoxication, temptations to go in 
for excessive involvements, drugging, etc. Scientists, 
technocrats, mathematicians and research scholars would have 
greater powers of concentration, seriousness of purpose and 
sustained work. Promotions, transfer to suitable place, too, 
can be acquired by the wearer within a few months of the use 
of this gem. Those dealing with fashion garments, beauty 
parlours, travel and tourism, and public relation jobs can hope 
to achieve instant success through the use of this gem. Men 
with birth number 3 and those with birth number 4 or 8 too 
would find sudden boom in their financial fortunes as also 
position and prestige, if they can acquire and use this gem. 
This gem is also good for the physical well-being of the wearers 
and is good for those who may wish to give up drinking and 
wish to lead a simple and healthy life. Aquarians are advised to 
wear it and also Capricornians. Recommended maximum 
weight: 10 carats 


Amber (traimani): This gem stone is generally red or 
yellow. But sometimes they are found in green and blue Amber 
colour. It is lighter and softer than Pearl. It glitters like 
dewdrops in the bright sunlight. It is worn by those who seek 
good luck, financial stability and to ward off danger from 


EMERALD 
j MERCURY) 


YELLOW SAPPHIRE 
(JUPITER) 


CATS EYE 
(KETU) 


DIAMOND 
(VENUS) 


RUBY 
(SUN) 


BLUE SAPPHIRE 
(SATURN) 


WHITE PEARL 
(MOON) 


RED CORAL 
(MARS) 


ZIRCON 
(RAHU) 


ONYX SARD 


RED JASPER PLASMA 


AGATE CHRYSOPRASE 


GREEN JASPER 
CORNELIAN 


GROSSULAR 
GARNET 


FIRE OPAL 


ADULARIA MOONSTONE 


RING WITH 
YELLOW TOPAZ 


COLORLESS ZIRCON 


LABRADORITE 


BLACK & WHITE 
SYNTHETIC OPAL 


BLUE SAPPHIRE 


How gems affect human lives? 33 


witchcraft. The gem is also used for curing many chronic 
ailments. 


But the wearer must not indulge in luxuries and 
temptations. It relieves the wearer of tensions and is good for 
those interested in nobler types of deeds and social and 
humanitarian causes. It should be kept away from heat or sun. 


It is very useful for those who often have to meet 
challenging and frustrating atmosphere. It is good for those 
involved in political life and those wishing to have 
governmental patronage. It is good for those having birth 
numbers 1 or 9. It is good for persons bom between 21 st July 
and 20th August. 


Agate (Haqiq) (Sulemani Pathar): This gem bestowing 
intelligence, will-power, wisdom and eloquence of speech is 
cither grey white, red or muddy. Red is ruled by Mars, yellow 
by Sun and white by Jupiter. It protects the wearer from being 
cheated. It gives strength to heart, protects against infections, 
fevers and risks of traffic obstacles. Particularly helpful it is 
to those in service and professions. It ensures a successful 
and smooth career. Those engaged in farming, agriculture and 
horticulture are the biggest beneficiaries. 


It also cures body pains and pain in legs. Those bom 
between 21 st July and 22nd August are suggested to wear it. 


An inexpensive stone, it is worn for good luck. It cures 
headaches, wind trouble and acidity and bestows extra sexual 
and muscular powers. It can also be worn by those who are 
interested in spiritual attainments. It nullifies the ill affects of 
curses of others and keeps the wearers protected from secret 
plots often hatched by others through jealousies and rivalries. 
It is particularly good for elderly persons (beyond 60) wishing 
to lead active and fruitful lives. It should be preferably worn 
on Sundays after prayers. Muslims can wear it after Friday 


34 A complete book on gems 


prayers and after offering food and alms to the poor. It is very 
popular with Muslim saints as it enhances their power to do 
good to others. 


Aquamarine: Aquamarine is a variety of beryl and 
possesses largely the property of Emerald. It appears in various 
shades of blue and greenish blue. Some of them are 
transparent. It is ruled by Venus and Mars. It goes well for a 
tender skin and can be wom with considerable success for 
girls who are in the age group of 15-18. It is also recommended 
for devout Hindus and others who may be inclined towards 
humanitarian and spiritual aspects of life and want to probe 
deeper into mysteries of nature. It is ideal for Leos and those 
born on 3rd, 12th, 2] st or 30 of a month (birth number 3) or 
for Pisces or for those in whose cases Jupiter is well placed in 
the ascendant in their natal charts. It would also reduce 
tensions/stresses in relationships, strengthen emotional ties 
and can protect the wearer in cases where others may exploit 
or play on their kind-heartedness or generosity. It is highly 
beneficial for those engaged in teaching and research, banking, 
medicine, humanitarian causes, travel and tourism, film 
industry, sailors and navigators and those interested in getting 
benefit from overseas connections. Those who have ego 
problems and cannot control their temper it is a must. The 
use of this gem resolves the marital problems of many young 
couples, whose life otherwise was not worth living. 


Beryl: Good for those whose birth number is 6, it is found 
in different colours—emerald green, rose, red, yellow and 
orange. It helps the wearer to enjoy life filled with love and 
affection. This is used after immersing it in holy waters for a 
few hours. It gives boost to the personal charm of the wearer 
and increases his/her acceptability in social circles. 


Bufonite: Bufonite is helpful when snake or other 
poisonous reptiles bite a person. 


How gems affect human lives? 35 


Bezoar or Beza: The Bezoar is a gemstone which was 
invariably used in the olden times to protect the wearers from 
plague, infection, poison and serious affections and dangers. 


Bloodstone: It is a dark green gem with red spots all over 
the body. It is considered particularly lucky for Ariens, 
Scorpions or those having birth number 9. It is good for general 
well-being and for financial experts — those in the field of 
insurance, banking, stocks and shares and financial 
manipulations. It produces daring nature, courage and mental 
alertness to them. It is supposed to cure wounds and bleeding, 
safeguards general and functional health, and guards the 
wearer against deception and foul play. 


Cat's Eye (Lasonia): It was a yellow or blackish radiance 
with a silver streak. It is also found in black and white, pale 
blue and light red shades. In light it looks like the eye of a cat. 
It clears hindrances and wards off evil effects of witchcrafts. 
It acts quickly and restores lost wealth, Poverty of the wearer 
vanishes. It saves him from enemies. It does well to those 
who do not have well-placed Ketu in their birth charts. The 
malefic effects of Ketu is loss of reputation and increase in 
jealousies and rivalries as a result of the man's popularity. 
Use of the stone must ease matters and safeguard him from 
scandals and loss of reputation. It is essential for those who 
are having birth numbers 2 and 7. or those who are governed 
by the planet Moon to wear it. This stone removes fear of 
impending hardships and cures allergies or skin disorders. It 
can also be worm by those whose Sun is degraded in their 
birth charts or for those of birth numbers 1 and 8. The stone 
acts as a shield for the wearer against losses in business thereby 
ensuring financial stability. Rich and wealthy persons can wear 
it as it will act not only as a guardian of its owner's wealth but 
will lead to further accumulation of riches. This stone works 
well if Ketu (Dragon's tail) is placed in 6th, 8th or 12th house 
from Venus in the chart. It gives comforts. If Ketu (Dragon's 


36 A complete book on gems 


tail) is in lagna, use of this stone will prove to be beneficial 
in all these cases. The stone acts as guardian of the wealth of 
the wearer. It protects the wearer from all kinds of misfortunes. 
If this stone is of a good quality, it can take the person to the 
top. It can reduce the impact of ailments like heart trouble 
and haemorrhage, increase knowledge, longevity and strength 
and cure chronic and incurable diseases. The gem protects 
from mishaps, accidental risks and hidden enemies. 


Warnings: Persons bom in 4, 13, 28.9, 18, 27th day of 
any month should not wear it. 


Coral (Monga): Though not a precious stone, it is taken 
to be one of the Nevratnas. It is of bright red colour but is 
available in lighter shades too. It is also found sometimes in 
white and yellow colours. It is not a mineral but is mostly 
composed of calcium secreted from sea water. This famous 
gem is generally found in Mediterranean waters. Other 
deposits are found off the costs of Spain, France, Sardinia, 
Corsica, Secily and the Coral Sea. Red Sea and the Persian 
Gulf offers bright Australian red coral. North-west coasts of 
Africa and the seas around Japan also contain it. The richest 
yields of it come from Algerian and Tunisian coasts. 


Any Coral to be effective must be: 


1. round or oval. 
opaque with red pigments of cinnabar. 


3. should emit a lovely splendour and is smooth without 
a hole. 


The opaque gemstone is most effective for radiating 
powerful emotions through absorption of red radiation from 
visible light spectrum. Use of this gem in gold keeps away 
several diseases, particularly tropical fevers, chickenpox, 
jaundice, fistula, impotency and ailments pertaining to blood. 
It is also most effective in healing ailments like anaemia, 


How gems affect human lives? 37 


general debility, weakness, lassitude, body pains, allergies, 
inflammations, cough and cold, bronchitis, pneumonia, etc. 
It helps to improve marital life. Children suffering from 
malnutrition or slow development may also improve and 
become intelligent. Abortion or miscarriage or other prenatal 
complications can be prevented, provided the gem is used 
after three months of pregnancy. At times, nightmares or 
threats from spirits or witchcraft can be warded off. The gem 
also protects wearers from lightning and thunder and traffic 
accidents. Those with birth number 9 would get quick results, 
as it would provide them with extra energies, financial 
stability, reduction of tensions, easing of litigation, and legal 
issues. The gem may grant land and property. It will give 
strength and willingness to meet challenges and critical 
situations. It should be worn on a Tuesday within one hour of 
sunrise. 


Warning: Those who were bom on 2, 11,20, 29, 5, 14, 
23, 7, 15,25. 8, 17 and 26th day of any month should not 
wear coral. 


Chrysoberyl: Chrysoberyl is an aluminate of beryllium. 
It is found generally in green and yellow colours. It is 
connected with nobler actions, and those who always think 
of doing good to others. Holy people and those anxious to 
seek spiritual attainments are advised to use it The wearer 
acquires extraordinary powers and gets name and fame in a 
short time. It is highly recommended for those who are 
suffering from allergies, asthma, chest infection or respiratory 
system. 


Corundum: This precious blue-colour gem belongs to 
the Ruby and Sapphires family. Sapphires have the powers to 
bestow general happiness and divine favours. These rare gems 
have crystal lining in their atomic structure. In light, they look 
like sparkling stars. The purer variety of corundum does not 
have any colour. The gem should be atleast 3 carat in weight. 


38 A complete book on gems 


Carnelian (Rattatus): Of red colour, this gem clears the 
voice of the wearer and helps to give him peace of mind, 
tranquillity, and harmony. It is also used in ailments of the 
nose, particularly nose bleeding tumors. Speakers and orators 
get good results when they wear it. It can be used for keeping 
good health, wealth and curing typhoid and yellow fever. 


Diamond: The word is derived from the Greek word 
fldcrmo.y-unconquerable. This universally known precious 
stone holds a unique position because of several remarkable 
properties. Chemically it is like an ordinary lamp black, 
nothing more than carbon in its pure form. It has many 
varieties, the finenestone being colourless. Blue white is a 
fine colour although most of the stones are yellowish or 
brownish. The colourless with a blue tinge or which throws 
blue and red rays and is without black dots is supposed to be 
the most auspicious. But if there is filth in the middle or 
comers, it should be treated as inauspicious. Similarly black 
dots or red dot or drop is considered inauspicious. 


According to some ancient books Diamond is said to be 
of three kinds—male, female and eunuch. 


The male is the best, female medium and the eunuch is to 
be avoided. Another opinion is that according to its structural 
beauty and radiance, etc, the diamond is of four 
kinds-Brahmin, Kshatriya, Vaishya and Shudra. The diamond 
which has eight or six angles and if reflected on water displays 
seven colours of the rainbow, that which is light in weight but 
looks large, that which is round but explicitly exhibits all its 
eight facets, that which is without lines or dots is a ‘male 
diamond’. The Diamond which is round and long, has dots 
and lines but has other qualities of the male diamond is called 
‘female diamond’. The diamond which has only three angles 
and the angles are turned. that which is round, large and heavy 
in weight is known as ‘eunuch diamond’. 


How gems affect human lives? 39 


The Diamond with a red or yellow hue is said to be very 
beneficial and auspicious for kings, political leaders and 
administrators holding high positions. 


The diamond with the white hue is suitable for those 
engaged in religious, social and spiritual work. The diamond 
of yellow colour bestows success and prosperity to 
industrialists, businessmen, financiers, etc. The one with the 
black hue is suitable for those who are engaged in inferior 
kind of jobs or professions. Women who want to be blessed 
with sons should wear an unblemished white diamond with a 
slight black hue. 


Cheap and defective diamonds can have adverse effect= 
ailments and tension, etc. 


It is said that wearer of a Brahmin diamond is bom again 
as a Brahmin upto seven births. He becomes proficient in 
religious scriptures and earns great respect and regards from 
others. The owner of Kshatriya diamond becomes a brave 
warrior, able diplomat, political leader or administrator and 
achieves great success in his career of sphere. The 
businessman who wears a Vaishya Diamond becomes wealthy 
and respected and enjoys all luxuries of life. 


The wearer of Shudra diamond becomes wise, successful 
and wealthy and is helpful to others. 


A defective or blemished diamond causes great harm to 
its Wearer. The white diamond with the shape of island, 
destroys wealth and happiness, the one with red island like 
impression destroys the cattle belonging to the wearer and 
the one with the black yava destroys wealth. Other defects in 
diamond disturb mental peace and bring disasters and diseases. 


Diamond is worn for longevity and financial progress in 
life. It blesses the wearer with children, intelligence, name 
and fame and fortune. It has also curative power; it cures 


40 4 complete book on gems 


diseases of kidney and reproductive organs and drives away 
evil spirits and effects of evil eye. 


It gives great benefit to the one whose Venus is well placed 
in their birth chart or in whose horoscope Venus is the lord of 
lagna. Those bom on Sth, 14th and 23rd of any month should 
wear it. Diamonds are more beneficial to those bom in zodiac 
sign Gemini (those bom between May 22 and June 21). Artists 
like dancers, singers, those taking part in dramas get popularity 
and gain materially if they wear diamond. It has an intoxicating 
efféct on music lovers and they start dancing. Men and woman 
bom in Taurus /agna and Aries and Leos can also benefit by 
wearing this precious gem. It strengthens their resolve to cany 
out their plans. It bestows the wearers who often waver in 
taking decisions, willingness to execute objectives. Constant 
wearing of Diamond also enable the wearers to do good deeds, 
meriting commendation and acclaim. It also provides a state 
of spiritual ecstasy and enables them to meet challenges boldly 
in life. It can be worn with success by those facing litigations, 
court cases, etc. provided the cause is just. Ladies wearing 
the gem maintain their slimness and stay beautiful, 


Diamonds bring in fidelity, loyality, good nature and 
innocence. Those who are constantly thinking of the opposite 
sex can ward off evil influences and make them sincere lovers 
and faithful to the loved ones. 


Powder of diamonds are used as medicines and are used 
for curing heart ailments, sex weaknesses and diabetes. If worm 
by a pregnant woman, it ensures safe delivery. 


Friday is the day when Diamond should be worn, within 
one hour of sunrise. 


Warning: Diamond should not be worn by those who were 
born on 1, 10, 19, 28, 3, 12, 21, 30, 2, 18, 27th day of any 
month. ‘ 


How gems affect human lives? 41 


Emerald (Panna): This transparent, very costly and rare 
gem stone and is radiant and beautiful and beryllium. 
Aquamarine and golden beryl are all beryls also, chemically 
of same composition. The best quality Emerald is deep velvet 
green or grass green in colour. The vitreous lustre of a good 
stone gives a beautiful appearance. This gem retains the colour 
in artificial light. It sprays bright rays and is without spots. 
The flows of Emerald are brightness like mica, thick water, 
depression, cracks, double colours, no lustre, black or yellow 
spots with rough surface. Such an Emerald can cause injuries 
to the wearer, unhappiness from parental side and distress. 


The stone is worn for Mercury in the little finger on the 
right hand and allows cold radiation to be absorbed by the 
user, enabling him to have perfect control over his nervous 
and intestinal portions like liver, tissues, lungs, vocal chord, 
tongue, brain and nervous system. Defects of memory, 
stammering, harshness in voice, students having poor 1Q, 
women at delivery bed fearing complication, men in business, 
writers, printers/publishers, dealers of scientific instruments 
will find Emerald beneficial. It is also beneficial in the case 
of @) Erythroblastosis Fostalis (RH group) (i) Depressive 
Psychosis (111) Pchadsophernia (psychological disorder) 
(iv) Dyspepsia (v) Hyperacidity (vi) Flatulence (vii) Hepatitis 
(viii) Bronchitis Gx) Stomatitis. It is strongly recommended 
for those with birth number 6. 


It enhances intellectual brilliance and prevents losses in 
business by enhancing wealth and property. It protects the 
wearer from snake bites, evil spirits and effect of evil eyes. It 
blesses the wearer with children and cures eye. But it should 
not be worn by those suffering from allergic tendencies, skin 
disorders or epilepsy. Apart from those whose Mercury is 
weak, it can be profitably worn by those governed by the solar 
signs Gemini or Virgo. It is particularly good for those 
connected with hospitals, and those dealing with chemical 


42 A complete book on gems 


industry, poetry, factories and research, public relations jobs, 
business executives, management experts, medical and 
surgical equipment and Instruments, equipment for survey, 
diplomats, peacemakers, arbitrators, auctioneers, those 
engaged in communications, and those who want to travel 
fast. It makes the users adaptable and gives strength to make 
the most of the difficult and challenging situations. It helps 
the user to maintain unquestioned integrity and identity of 
character. 


It should be preferably worn on Wednesdays, within one 
hour of sunrise. 


Garnet: This cheaper stone is available in deep red and 
blackish-red colour. The wearer of Garnet gets success in 
battle or court cases. It gives him/her fortune, name and fame 
and energy to the body and controls bleeding and depression. 
It is worn in place of Ruby. It is also called Cape Ruby, Arizena 
Ruby and Bohemian Garnet. Generally this stone is free from 
flaws. It provides fortune to those bom in the month of January 
or those who have their birth numbers as 1 or 9. Ladies having 
a delicate health should wear it to improve their health. The 
gem protects the wearer from nightmares and untoward 
happenings. Ancient Egyptians used it as an antidote for snake 
bites and food poisoning. It also gives considerable advantage 
to those under stress. Ladies having birth numbers 4 or 8 or 
those who suffer from body pains and headaches should wear 
it around the neck. Politicians, surgeons, defence personnel 
and those in services get advantage by wearing it. 


Gomed (Hessonite): Found in almost all colours-red, 
blue, green, yellow, brown and other shades-this attractive 
gem offers semi-precious protection to the wearer from 
enemies and bestows health, wealth and prosperity. It acts as 
a protective shield to him while hunting wild animals or 
fighting in the battle field. But a defective stone can prove 


How gems affect human lives? 43 


dangerous. The stone with red colour affects health and the 
one with the mixture of mica destroys wealth. From a distance 
the gem reflects the colour of urine of the cow. It is used with 
impressive results for ailments like wind and acidity. The stone 
leads to improvement in finances, health and happiness. It is 
strongly recommended for tiiose involved in active politics 
or those having Rahu in their tenth house in the birth chart. It 
is recommended for those engaged in legal profession. It 
should also be worn by all those who may be interested in 
spiritual advancement, particularly during the Rahu Dasa. It 
is also good for those suffering from allergies, skin disorders, 
piles, epilepsy, infection of eyes. cold. fatigue, insomnia, BP, 
heart ailments and infection in the upper part of body. It is an 
insurance cover against poverty. It is a recommended stone 
for persons of birth number 4 and should be worn in silver on 
the middle finger, two hours after sunset on Saturdays after 
Puja. But Gomed should not be worn by those who were bom 
on 2, 12, 3,20, 30. 7, 16,25,8.26.9, 18, 27and 17th of any 
month. 


Jade: Of green colour, or light cream, yellow cream or 
muddy black, but without lustre, this gem was very popular 
among the Chinese in ancient times. It is of two types. Jadeite 
and Nephrite. The former is the silicate of sodium and 
aluminium and the latter is silicate of calctum and magnisium. 
It can be fruitfully used as protection against accidents, 
diseases, witchcraft and epilepsy. It gives strength to lungs, 
heart and vocal organs. It is recommended for those who have 
allergies and skin disorders. It is supposed to give long life 
and a peaceful end to the wearer. 


Jasper: This semi-precious opaque gemstone of a muddy 
red, brown, yellow and green colour is good for those who 
want to multiply money very fast. It is also beneficial for those 
who want to gain in horse racing and speculation of all types. 
It is also recommended for patients suffering from prolonged 


44 A complete book on gems 


and mysterious ailments. It protects the wearer from inscct 
bites, drowning and accidental injuries. It raises the intelligence 
level of the wearer and is particularly meant for those who want 
to remain alert all the time of the day and night. 


Jet: Jet stone is an inexpensive gemstone and is available 
in black colour. It is supposed to cure snake bites. It was mined 
in the U.K. in 1500B.C. It is a very hard variety of coal and 
has dull lustre on broken surface. It is associated with magical 
and mystical power. This stone is generally worn around the 
neck. 


Kidney Stone: Light green in colour and non-transparent, 
this’ gem is particularly good for those who suffer from kidney 
ailments or urinary infections. 


Lodcstone: This gemstone leads to heightned mental 
faculties and enables the wearer to foretell future events. 


Lapiz Lazuli: Lapiz Lazuli is a soft, opaque gemstone of 
dark blue colour. This stone is ruled by Venus and Saturn. It 
represents tenderness, sympathy and love. Its use is 
recommended for those whose birth numbers are 3, 4, 6, 8 or 
9 or for those who are bom under the solar sign Taurus. It is 
particularly favourable for ladies engaged in music, art, dance, 
drama, etc. It is helpful to those who believe in subtle values. 
Persons using this gem will win over others through love. 
They seek peace and harmony. It is known to protect wearers 
from depressing outlook and from intermittent fevers and eye 
infections. The gem is good for general prosperity and 
happiness. This gem should not be used by those suffering 
from sugar or those who have enough fat in their bodies. It 
also heals liver and stomach problems. This stone can act as 
a substitute for Blue Sapphire. 


Labradoritc: This gem stone in deep blue and purple 
colours has a white streak like Moonstone. It protects the 


How gems affect human lives? 45 


wearer against ailments like spondylitis, body pains, arthritis, 
etc. 


It is highly recommended for those whose birth number 
is 8. It precludes the possibility of delays due to adverse 
influence of Saturn. It also protects the wearers against 
drowning. 


Moon Stone: A gem of cheaper variety and a substitute 
for Pearl, this gem is found in white cloud colour. It looks 
like the moon. Sometimes it is found in reddish brown, blue, 
black or rose colour. There is a shining band inside which 
rolls when the stone is turn. Those bom in July and those 
who have stomach upsets must use it. It relieves tension and 
nervous disorders. It has the mystical power of reconciling 
lovers who have fallan off. It is good for those needing greater 
concentration in studies/research, those having problems of 
marriage or marital happiness, those suffering from heart 
ailments, gynaecological problems, epilepsy, mental ailments, 
those who cannot control tempers or who get excited quickly 
and for general peace. It is good for those dealing with research 
projects, accountancy, banking, navigation, judiciary and 
engineering. Moon Stone is strongly recommended for 
children who are not keeping good health and are poor in 
studies or growth. The stone should be worn on Mondays 
and be of weight between 5 and 7 rattis. \t should be worn 
cither in lockets or on the little or the 4th finger. 


Malachite: It is dark bluish in colour with black or green 
strips on it. This is generally used to attain greater success in 
life and to cross over hurdles. This is particularly favourable 
for those engaged in business activity and for financial 
prosperity, but it also make the wearer a bit extravagant and it 
is likely that he may flaunt his wealth. But it is very good to 
attain success and happiness in all spheres of life. It is ruled 
by Mercury and Venus and gives good sleep and drives away 
evil spirits. 


46 A complete book on gems 


Melanite: It is a black variety of Garnet. It protects the 
wearer from dangers from unexpected sources. It can be wom 
by sailors and fishermen on the high seas. 


Ophite: This has mystic power. It enables one to see 
visions and hear the voices of the invisible. 


Oilvine: This stone brings good luck and cheer to wearers 
and protects them from unpleasant influences, evil thoughts 
and temptations, melancholy outlook, evil passions, deceit 
and cruelty. 


Onyx (Sulemani Haqiq): Suitable for lovers, it is of green 
colour, having alternate bands of black and white. It is good 
for general happiness and prosperity and is also supposed to 
curve nightmares, fantasies and vision. It effectively wards 
off evil eye and ensures conjugal happiness. It can be used by 
those who are engaged in hard work. Politicians can use it to 
influence (heir adversaries and win them over with ease. 


Opal: This beautiful shining and expensive gem stone is 
very popular for jewellery. This green gem is generally 
prescribed as a birth stone. It is found in different colours like 
black, red, yellow and white. Black opals are rare but white 
ones are common. This stone changes colours often. It bestows 
beauty, power and financial prosperity. Those who are bom 
in October should wear it. It will make their personal and 
family life congenial. It helps in winning litigation and gives 
greater stability in life. It is used by astrologers and occultists 
to foretell future of their clients. 


Pearl: This beautiful gem is the product of mollusk, a 
shell fish. Although of organic origin, it is composed 
principally of mineral matter-the pearl oyster belongs to the 
mussel family. It possesses a byssus, similar to a bundle of 
threads by which it is able to attach itself to rocks or other 
sub-marine objects. There are generally two spawning seasons 
each year, when millions of young oyster are liberated. Only 


How gems affect human lives? 47 


those that fall on the rocks reach a fishable age, though all 
bivalves are capable of producing pearl. It is these oysters 
which produce the precious pearls. This has been regarded as 
most auspicious stone since early times. 


The lustre of Pearls varies with the nature of layers and 
different ocean beds seem to yield Pearls of characteristic tints. 
Colours may be white, black, yellow, blue, salmon pink, red, 
brown, green, etc. The rosy sheen is considered the best and 
is most expensive. Pearls having this sheen almost exclusively 
come from the Persian Gulf. 


The lustre of Pearls is nacreous which means resembling 
mother-of-pearl, a lustre due to minute undulations of the 
edges of alternate layers of carbonate of lime and its 
membrane. The lustre of some pearls exists only on the 
surface. The outer surface of others may be dull and the inner 
lustrous. Cracks in its skin, a thin line on the body of the 
Pearl, an appearance like a joint, mole on the Pearl, lustreless 
spots like those of small pox, with spots, one with earth inside 
it, one with wood like material in its middle is unauspicious 
and should not be used. 


Pearls with a yellow lustre brings wealth. Red colour 
makes one intelligent. White Pearl gives fame and name and 
blue Pearl gives good future and evil influences of planets 
end. 


Pearls help in reducing tensions, stomach upsets and 
family discards. If worn by ladies round the neck, it will 
preserve their chastity, Pearls’ influence over heart, blood, 
mind and eyes is quite strong. It increases the self-confidence 
of the wearer. improves his/her mental faculties and promotes 
cordial atmosphere around. Those who seek great 
concentration in studies or work are greatly benefitted by 
wearing Pearls. People born under the sign of Cancer and on 
7", 16" and 25th day of any month and with birth number 2 


48 A complete book on gems 


must wear Pearls. Childless couples and ladies who are having 
menstrual disorders may use Pearls with great advantage. The 
gemstone should be used in silver or any white metal and 
worn on the little finger on Mondays. Pearl stone can be 
combined with Emerald or Peridot or Tourmaline. 


Wearing of defective Pearl brings troubles. Pearl is likely 
to cause leprosy to the wearer. If in any Pearl there is a spot or 
a sign that appears like the eye ofa fish, the wearer suffers 
loss of children. The Pearl which is devoid of lustre is said to 
shorten life. A Pearl which looks like a Coral is harbinger of 
poverty. The Pearl which is flat brings a bad name to the 
wearer. The Pearl which is long instead of being round makes 
the wearer foolish and an idiot. If a side of the Pearl is broken 
the wearer of such stone suffers the loss of his livelihood. If 
any part of the Pearl instead of being round takes the shape of 
a bird, the wearer of this stone may loose all his wealth and 
earnings. Pearl should not be worn by those bom on 3. 12, 
21, 30, 8 and 17 day of any month. 


Peridot: Made of magnesium silicate and iron, this 
gemstone constitutes a group of minerals and only its olivine 
varieties are being used as gem stones. It is a transparent, 
olive or bottle green stone. Some of them have yellow, brown 
or grey shades. But only greenish colour is used in jewellery. 
Those with darker shade are called Olivines and those with 
yellowish green or bottle green are known as Chrysolites. It 
is ruled by Sun. It leads to quick marriage and a happy married 
life. It protects the wearer from insect bite. This is very 
beneficial in case the wearer has Mercury in retrogression in 
his/her birth chart. 


Perth: This gem of yellow colour is good for curing gout, 
arthritis and spondylitis . It is effective in asthma and diabetes. 


Quartz: This is the most widely distributed varieties of 
all gem stones. It is silica (oxide of silicon). It comes in various 


How gems affect human lives ? 49 


colours like black, yellow, brown and smoky grey. It has a 
number of varieties like rock ¢rystal, smoke quartz, a citrine 
and Amethyst. It is good for saints as it has spiritual, medicinal 
and supernatural qualities, which delight those who are 
interested in occult science. Astrologers and palmists of 
renown as well as philosophers and spiritualists use this gem 
to their considerable advantage. It is also effective in eye 
infections, stomach ailments, stomach ulcer, throat infections, 
giddiness and blood poisoning. 


The chatoyant stones under this category are Cat's Eye. 
Tiger's Eye. etc. 


Rock crystal: This has been known in India from limes 
immemorial. This is a colourless semi-precious stone found 
in large quantity. When cut and polished it comes out as a 
beautiful stone, though it lacks ‘fire’. It is a substitute for 
Diamond but is not found to be very effective. 


Citrine: This is generally known as Quartz or Topaz. This 
is really a yellow Quartz with peculiar internal structure, the 
colour being due probably lo a trace of ferric oxide. Natural 
stones are not very common and most of the ‘atrine’ in the 
market are as a result of heating smoky Quartz. Although it is 
softer and much softer and much cheaper than Yellow 
Sapphire, when cut and polished it looks flawless and very 
much like Yellow Sapphire. Its lustre lasts for a very long 
time. It is a very useful substitute for Yellow Sapphire and 
Topaz. 


Amethyst: This is the beautiful violet-coloured variety 
of Quartz and probably the most valuable of the different 
species. Amethyst works as a very effective substitute for Blue 
Sapphire. The darker the colour, the more effective it is. 


Ruby: One who wears a Ruby which is unblemished. that 
is. which is smooth in touch, clean, of good colour and water, 
has lustre. brilliance and radiance, is blessed with children, 


50 A complete book on gems 


acquires wealth and property, becomes prosperous and 
accumulates precious gems. 


He is protected from fear. afflictions, sorrow and disasters. 
He becomes fully virile and his will-power and spirit are 
strengthened. He occupies a high and respected position in 
society. 


Ruby is also of four castes. The Brahmin Ruby is of rosy 
colour. The Kshatriya Ruby is red like a red lotus flower. The 
Vaishya Ruby has the colour of the seeds of pomegranate or 
pigeon's blood. The Shudra Ruby has a blackish or bluish 
hue and has no radiance. 


This costly stone is worn for Sun. which emits cosmic 
rays and infra-red radiation. It rules over bones, cures 
indigestion, fevers and stomach pains. It is particularly 
recommended for occultists, artists, architectures, legal 
experts, etc. Those belonging to solar sign Virgo and who 
have single birth numbers | to 4 (bornon 1, 10, 19,28, 4,13, 
22 and 31 of any month) should put on this gemstone. It should 
be worn on gold on the ring finger on Sundays within one 
hour of sunrise after puja (with 3 to 5 rattis weight). The 
stone particularly favours those who are in key positions. 


A blemished and defective Ruby brings many troubles 
for the wearer. If the stone is dull, the wearer's brother gets 
into distress. The milky stone destroys the cattle. Double 
coloured stone causes distress to the wearer and his father. 
The stone with a red sign causes quarrels and disputes. 


Smoky stone attracts attack of lightening. The stone with 
four spots creates fear from wounds and weapons and if it is 
dusty in colour it is the cause of stomach disorders and 
childlessness. If there are white. black or honey coloured 
sprinklings on the stone, the native is defamed and there is 
less of longevity, wealth and comforts. It is also believed that 


How gems affect human lives? 51 


if the stone loses its colour, the wearer is about to become 
victim of some distress or disaster. 


It regains its colour when the trouble is averted or is over. 
It is also said that Ruby fades in colour by being put close to 
any poisonous substance. If there is a depression on the stone, 
the wearer suffers from ill health and loses vitality and stamina. 
If the stone is full of flaws of any kind it may bring death. 


Yellow Sapphire: This expensive stone is of light yellow- 
colour. It reflects righteousness, piety and truthfulness of the 
wearers. This gem is ruled by Jupiter and it is worn to get 
blessings of the planet. It is recommended for economic 
prosperity and is particularly good for those engaged in 
business or industry. Tills gem should be worn by those who 
are desirous to be blessed with children, or those interested in 
nobler aspects of life and in the occult, charity, spiritual 
motivation. yoga, meditation and religious preachings. It gives 
the wearer wisdom, good health, property, name and fame 
and protects him from evil spirits. 


It should preferably be worn on a Thursday within an hour 
of the sunrise on the index finger. Its use with Pearl on gold 
too gives powerful results, If the Jupiter in the horoscope 
receives the aspect of Saturn or if there is conjunction of 
Jupiter-Saturn in the birth chart, this gem with a blue tinge 
will help. It is the recommended stone for persons of birth 
number 3. as it will bless them with all round happiness and 
prosperity. good health, benevolence and longevity. It will 
also protect the wearer from dangers during long voyages. It 
is particularly good for those born under the solar sign 
Sagittarius, but in order to be most effective it should be of 
light yellow colour and transparent. A pinkish-orange sapphire 
is known as **Padparadscher™’ and is the most expensive. 


A stone with cracks invites threats of theft. The one 
without lustre and transparency creates enemies and causes 


52 A complete book on gems 


disharmony in the family. Blemished gem stones are the cause 
of many troubles. Milky stone invites injuries to the body. 
The one with a web causes stomach disorders. The stone with 
black and white colours is harmful for the cattle of the wearer. 
The one with red dots on it destroys wealth. The stone with a 
depression causes anxiety and disturbs peace of mind. 


Blue Sapphire: This gem should always be wom after 
giving it a trial. Ifit suits the wearer it removes his poverty 
and gives the wearer almost everything a man could desire, 
namely, health, wealth, longevity, happiness, prosperity. name 
and fame. It also restores lost wealth and property. As the 
name denotes, it is of blue colour. The gem is associated with 
the planet Saturn. It is an expensive stone. But one should 
wear it after consulting a therapist, astrologer and numerolo- 
gist. It gives relief to heart patients and protects the wearer 
against accidents and dangers of fire and natural calamities. 
It removes hassles and irritants. agonies and frustration in 
life. Sapphires are placed in different categories. The Brahmin 
class is blue or white with a bluish hue. The Kshatriya class 
is raddish with bluish hue. The Vaishya class is white with 
dark blue tinge. The Shudra class is blue with a blackish hue. 
A blemished Sapphire brings in trouble. Ifit is having white 
lines, it affects wearer's eyes. Milky hue causes poverty. 
Cracks in stone may cause accidents and a double coloured 
one may bring in enmity. Non-transparent may affect the 
wearer's near relations. If Sapphire changes its colour, it warns 
the wearer ofa threat of attack to him/her or a conspirary 
against himvher. It has been noticed that the stone comes back 
to its original colour after the calamity is avoided or passed, 


There is a substitute for Blue Sapphire and that cheaper 
stone is called Kathela. It can be worn when there is a 
conjunction of Saturn-mars or Saturn-Rahu in the birth chart. 
It should be 3 to 3.5 carats in weight for domestic peace and 
financial prosperity. It helps in preventing vomiting. nautia. 


How gems affect human lives? 13 


headache, vertigo. abscess, eye infections, allergies and 
tensions. The wearers of the stone would be attached and 
faithful to his/her family members. This stone should be worn 
on Saturday two hours and forty minutes before sunset. It can 
be also worn during Pashya Nakshatra or eclipses after 
distributing alms to the poor and doing puja. Experts opion 
that Blue Sapphire should be worn on the second finger and 
the weight should be atleast 5 carat. To achieve improvement 
in fertility, Blue Sapphire can be combined with Tourmaline 
of green colour. 


White Sapphire: This is yet another precious stone which 
is white. This brings all-round financial prosperity and 
happiness. The wearer becomes systematic and methodical 
and upright in facing the problems of life. He would develop 
maturity in his dealings with people who would repose 
confidence in him. 


Sardonic: This semi-precious stone, bluish or blackish 
in colour, imparts to the wearer, specially those bom in months 
of January, February or August, assertiveness, protects him/ 
her from poisonous animal bites and infections. It makes those 
who are in public relations successful by influencing people. 
Lawyers, actors and orators do well if they wear this gem 
stone. 


Stone of Memphis: This stone, if worn, would protcct 
the person from any mishap. 


SpircI:A double oxide ofmagnisium and aluminium, this 
is a transparent gem with red, darkish or yellowish hue. It is 
precious. It is mistaken often for Ruby because of its colour. 
The gem shields a person against unforeseen losses and gives 
monetary profit. 


Sun Stone: Those who are having their birth number as 1 
or 4 should wear this pink rose colour stone. 


54 A complete book on gems 


Topaz: Initially found in Red Sea, it draws it name from 
it. Although not at all expensive, it is highly effective. This is 
found in light yellow colour (The smoky is the best). But there 
are many varieties of Topaz. Most of them are colourless 
stones, some yellow, some sherry in colour. True Topaz is a 
rarer commodity. It is blue-silicate of aluminium and natural 
crystals occur in a prismatic form with pyramid termination. 
Yellow Topaz is a good substitute for Yellow Sapphire. If wom 
by Gemini people, Librans or scorpions, it will lessen or remove 
risk of injury or attack. It should be worn by those who have to 
handle machines. Mental derangements, madness, suicidal 
tendency in man can be cured by wearing the gem. It also brings 
in domestic bless. Ruled by Sun, it helps in toning down 
negative thoughts that one carries for others and cools down 
tempers. 


Turquoise (Firoza): Generally this stone is available in 
blue- green to apple green colour. This opaque stone of 
appreciable value is scare in sky blue colour. It is of a complex 
composition-hydrous phosphate of alumina coloured by a 
copper compound because of its containing some water. It 
should be spared from being immersed in water. The stone is 
supposed to have occult powers to protect the wearer against 
evils. It changes its colour if the wearer is to get some disaster. 
It removes eye troubles if eyes are touched by it. Originally 
found in Turkey, the stone is good for persons with numbers 
1, 3, 4, 6 and 8. It is sought by those who seek spiritual 
enlightenment. 


Tourmaline: This stone is silicate and borate of aluminia, 
magnesia and iron. It is found in a variety of colours because 
of its composition. Those in red and pink are called Rubellite, 
black is named Schori, green is named Brazilian Emerald, 
blue is Brazilian Sapphire. violet red is Siberite, yellow or 
yellow green is Ceylonese Peridot and colourless is Achorite. 
Some of the stones are green externally and red internally 


How gems affect human lives? ae 


and vice-versa; some are red at one end and green or black at 
the other. This stone should be wom in silver by those who 
desire to improve their financial position and status in society 
or by students or those appearing in competitive examinations. 
The red, white, green. yellow, and blue colours can be 
substituted by Ruby, Diamonds. Emeralds, Yellow Sapphire 
and Blue Sapphire. 


Tiger's Eye: This is a fibrous quartzs of golden yellow to 
bluish colour which gives chatoyant effects when properly 
cut and polished. This gem stone is used as substitute for Cat's 
Eye. The stone is found in abundance in Africa. It has white, 
grey, red or wood colour. It bestows to the wearer drive, 
especially to those whose birth number is 2 or 7. The stone 
gives extra energy and stamine to the wearer and keeps him 
tension free. 


Zircon: Also called American Diamond, this attractive 
stone, which looks like the colour of urine of the cow, has a 
wide range of colours—red. blue, green, yellow, orange, brown, 
etc. It looks like Diamond. The stone has a hard and brilliant 
lustre and is greatly beneficial to those whose Rahu is placed 
in the ascendant. The stone is recommended for those born in 
April whom it will bestow prestige, popularity in society and 
specially with the opposite sex. It will bring in prosperity, 
position, prestige and honours. It promotes sound sleep and 
makes one happy. The gem stone which shows a light blackish 
hue from a distance, is rough, without radiance, is flat bodied, 
is full of layers and looks like a yellow piece of glass. is 
unauspicious and should not be used. 


6 


Where are jewels formed? 


No doubt mother earth bears in her womb precious jewels 
and gems and those jewels which have divine powers are 
beyond the reach of the common human being. The jewels 
derived from the metamorphic rocks are actually the ones that 
are hard to procure and are precious. The chemical sources of 
getting gems and jewels are man-made. They are not only 
easily available but comparatively cheaper. 


The metamorphic jewels are always found in the form of 
large stone slabs. These jewels and gems are formed deep 
under the fourth or the fifth layer of the earth's strata. Buried 
for thousands of years in the nature's womb, in the deep gravels 
of earth, these jewels and gems go on changing their colours 
and shades in a continuous process. Many times, when the 
earth's womb boils up to throw up the volcanic lavas, these 
gems and jewels resurface and some of the liquid lava gradually 
turns up to form the most sought-after gems and the jewels 
also. But that is a very long process. This metamorphic wealth 
can be found from three sources, (i) metamorphic rock, 
(ii) igneous rock and (iti) sedimentary rock. 


The metamorphic rock: This is the self-changing high 
quality stone stratum and the gems take shape as the nature's 
bounty. These are believed to form into gems and jewels after 
the continual process wherein the hard rocky stratum works 
as the base on which the pressures of earth's upper strata and 
heat automatically works. To cite an example when a heap of 


Where are jew Ts formed? | 


mud or that of soft soil turns into hard slabs, a large part of it 
is turned into Garnets. In the same way lime stones develop 
into marbles. Similarly, a slab of hard transferable carbon turns 
into a marvellous rock of Diamond from unbearable heat and 
limestone may get converted into Ruby if subjected to 
continuous heat and pressure, 


It is estimated that it takes more than 7.000 years or more 
for a slab of coal to turn into a rock of diamond. All these 
precious jewels take thousands of years, Emerald taking about 
7.000 to 8,000 years to be formed, the Yellow Sapphires some 
6,000 years and mud and soft soil blocks more than 3,000 
years to become Garnet blocks. This very Garnet may turn 
into Ruby if it gets heated for another thousand years or so. 


Igneous rock: Their sources are underground pits, 
meteorites fallen from the sky and the lava following the 
eruption of volcanoes. These pieces cool down with the 
passage of time and become gems. Most of them get turned 
into powder but the remaining ones become real gems. 


Sedimentary rock: These rocks are formed when animals, 
creatures, trees, plants, logs, etc gradually drift down the earth's 
strata and are affected by nature's changing seasons and 
onslaughts and ultimately turn into hard rocks; some of them 
turn into jewels and gems. They are light, smooth and glowing. 
Tourmalines, Opals, Cat's Eye. Moon Stones, Peridots and 
Lapis Lajulis are made thus. 


Besides mines. seas also provide us jewels. In fact gems 
were in existence even before man was bom. But in today's 
world, gems and jewels are being made artificially. But most 
of them are meant only for decoration. They do not have the 
efficacy to nullify the evil effect of planets or remove illness. 
In Mumbia and Panna district of Madhya Pradesh (in India), 
there have developed many industries which are engaged in 
cutting and polishing diamonds and other precious stones. 


58 A complete book on gems 


Cutting of gems was being carried out even in olden times (in 
14th century B.C.). 


France, Holland and Belgium are famous world over in 
cutting and polishing diamonds. 


7 


cyamous gem mines in the world 


Gem mines arc located almost in every part of the world. 
Particularly mines of Quartz and Garnet are found almost in 
every country of the world. It is the general belief that gem 
mines existed even before human beings took form. These 
gems are in a way stones but one cannot call all of them stones. 
There is a difference between stones and some gems. They 
are actually precious stones which influence the destiny of 
the user. Ofcourse this theory exists only in the East. For the 
West gems are articles only to be used for adoration. 


There are some precious stones like Diamond and Emerald 
which are found at a few places as their preparation needs 
special heat pressure and geological standard. 


Below is a list of the countries and the gems which are 
found there. 

Australia-Diamond, Opal, Sapphire and Pearl 

Afghanistan-Ruby, Aquamarine 

Brazil-Diamond, Emerald, Aqraserin, Garnet, Opel, 
Topaz, Frerizi-Berial, Lapis Lajuli, Tourmaline 

Botswana-Diamond 

Colombia-Emerald 

Czechoslovakia-Opel 

China- Pearl, Peridot 


60 A complete book on gems 

Egypt-Peridot 

Germany-Topaz 

Italy-Tourmaline 

India-Diamond, Lapis [ajuli, Garnet 

Japan-Pearl 

Kenya-Ruby, Diamond, Tourmaline 

Madagascar—Aquamarine, Tourmaline 

Myanmar—Ruby, Peridot 

Mexico-Topaz 

Nigceria—Topaz 

Pakistan-Emerald 

Russia-Diamond, Aquamarine, Lapis Lajuli, Topaz, 
Garnet 

Sri Lanka-Topaz, Sapphire, Lapis Lajuli 

Thai land-Ruby, Sapphire 

USA-Tourmaline, Peridot, Sapphire 

Zambia-Emerald, Diamond 


8 


World's famous diamonds 


Although diamonds are found in many countries, some 
of them stand above all for their weight, shine, abnormal 
beauty, efficacy eternally, lesser availability and divinity. Let 
us discuss them one by one. 


Kohinoor: This 186-carat diamond once belonged to Raja 
Ranjit Singh of Punjab. It was purchased by the Shah of Iran 
in 1739 from the raja with the help of the Britishers who had 
started spreading their wings in India then. Later it was 
procured by the East India Co. which presented it to the queen 
of England. It was later fixed in the crown of Queen Mary. At 
present it is in the custody of London Tower. 


Shah: This 88.7-carat weighing diamond was also 
procured from Indian mine. It was very lightly polished. It 
changed hands many times and ultimately reached the Shah 
of I ran and was retained by him for a long period. In 1§29 the 
Shall presented it to Tsar Nicholas the First. At present it is 
lying in Kremlin (Moscow). 


Kulinon: This 530.20-carat weighing diamond was cut, 
trimmed and polished from the 3106—carat weighing diamond, 
perhaps the weighest diamond so far taken out. It has got its 
name from Sir Thomas Kulinon, the chairman of the mine 
company. This diamond adorns London Tower at the present. 
It is also called Star of Africa. 


62 A complete book on gems 


Florantine: This 137.27-carat diamond was acquired by 
the Madisi family of Florence in 1657, nobody knows from 
whom. In the 18th century it adorned the crown of Habsburge. 
Later it was used as a pin. It got lost during the First World 
War. 


Sansi: This diamond weighs 55 carat. Charles the Brawe 
adorned it in 1490. Later Senyore, the French ambassador 
posted in Turkey, purchased it. In 1906 the piece went to the 
Aster family of England. 


Nasak: This diamond was looted by the Britishers from 
the Shiv Temple in Nasik in 1818. Then it weighed 43.38 
carat. It was trimmed. At present it is owned by some rich 
American. .. 


Tifani: This diamond was procured from the Kimbarli 
mines of South Africa. When it was taken out, it weighed 
287.42 carat. After trimming it weighed 128,51 carat. One 
New York jeweller by the name Tifani bought it and remoulded 
it into 52 square pieces. 


Dresden: It was acquired from a mine in India. This 41- 
carat diamond was bought by Duke Augusta in 1700. It is at 
present in the Green Hall of Dresden. 


Hope: One banker H.T. Hope purchased this 44.50-earat 
piece and today it is with the Smith Seniyan Association of 
the U.S. 


9 


Role of colours in human fives 


Gemstones have colours and it is a fact that colours play 
an important part in our lives. They affect our health, moods, 
our living style, happiness. etc. The foremost need is to find 
out what colour suits a person according to this his/her chart. 
And once that has been known, one can chose the colour of 
his clothes. curtains, sofa, walls, etc. 


It is generally experienced in life that bright colours 
produce happiness and enthusiasm in a person while dull 
colours cause negative effect and make him dull and morose. 
They suit only serious-minded persons who are indifferent 
to luxuries of life and comforts of living. 


Colours react in different ways on diflerentpersons. Some 
particular colours may cause tension to some but the same 
colour may give relief to the other person. But some colours 
give pleasure and happiness or encouragement lo almost 
everybody. They enthuse gaiety, warmth, joy, love and 
affection, harmony and encouragement to struggle in life and 
reach a place of comfort and luxury. 


Each colour is associated symbolically with something. 
Take the example of white colour. It stands for peace, purity, 
nobility and innocence. Black colour denotes sympathy for 
the aggrieved. Yellow stands for warmth and light blue and 
green for repose and peace. Red colour signifies vigour. 
energy. youthfulness and dash. 


64 «1 complete book on gems 


Even in ancient times it was believed that colours have a 
close relationship with human ailments and their curves. Today 
science and psychology acknowledge that colour does affect 
our mental state. What more, more titan fifty per cent of the 
physical ailments find their roots in one's mental state. On 
the very basis astrologers recommend various gem stones to 
cure ailments based on tiieir colours. 


Colours are linked to our emotional, physical, mental and 
even spiritual side. Specific reactions to different colours have 
an abstract power to influence and govern our destiny as every 
colour gets a certain response from an individual. To be 
successful in life, to acquire name and fame, power and wealth, 
these colours have to be in tune with or in the same wavelength 
with the nature of the individual. 


Astrology tells us that the sun signs are divided into four 
categories -fiery (fire), earthy (earth), airy (air) and watery 
(water). All ofthe four signs have their own characteristics 
and they are influenced by the planets and their movements 
in different manners. Their ill effect can be removed or 
neutralised through proper use of astral method, one of them 
being the correct use of colours and gems. 


This practice of treatment of diseases is now universal. In 
the Capital itself of this country there existed a very well- 
known hospital where patients of even Cancer were being 
treated with the use of colour and light. 


In modem times colour therapy is being widely used. 
Given below are a few examples of its use: 


There have been instances when premature children used 
to get afflicted with jaundice. In such cases their blood had 
got to be replaced by a fresh one. The latest therapy is to 
penetrate blue light into the body. 


In the state-of-the-art operation theaters ultravoilet rays 
of the sun are used to clean the air. 


Role of colours in human _ lives 65 


The colour therapy has proved quite useful in skin 
diseases. Blue and purple colour of skin indicates lack of 
oxygen in blood or diseases of heart or lung. 


The yellow colour of the skin indicates lack of B,, vitamin. 
Similarly, dark red skin shows the presence of too much carbon 
mono-oxide in the body. 


The famous scientists Samyon and Valentine Kirliyan have 
already proved that there exists a universal energy force around 
us and that there is one more body close to our physical body 
which can be seen with efforts. Our saints and seers were 
very well aware of the existence of that body. 


It was the Theosophical Society of India that attached 
greatest importance to colours. According to the society that 
astral body is surrounded by a bright cover which displays 
different colours. Those colours, if one can see them, reveal 
the attributes of the physical body. 


Briefly the colours of the astral body can be divided into 
five parts. 


1. Light blue (denoting higher stage of spiritualism), purple 
(love and spirit of sacrifice), sky blue (high thinking and spirit 
of sacrifice), dark blue (selfishness). 


2. Blue-green (religious feeling mixed up with fear) yellow 
(great intelligence), bright (top intelligence), blackish yellow 
(poor intelligence), orange (pride). 


3. Green (sympathy), light purple (love for humanity), rosy 
(selfless attachment), blackish rosy (attachment with some 
aim). 


4. Bright green (nature of self-assessment), dark red-brown 
(jealousy), blackish green (cunning), dull brown 
(hopelessness, powerless). 


66 


A complete book on gems 


5. Dark yellow (selfishness), dull red (greed), blackish 
red (desire for physical pleasure), black (malice). 


Zodiac signs and gems and colours recommended for use 


Aries 
(Born between 
March 21 and April 
20) 
Taurus 
(Bom between 
April 21 to May 
21) 
Gemini 
(May 22 to June 
21) 


Cancer 
(June 22 to July 23) 
Leo 
(July 24 to Aug. 


Virgo 
(Aug. 24 to Sept. 
23) 


Libra 
(Sept. 24 to Oct. 
23) 


Scorpio 
(Oct. 24 to Nov, 
23) 
Sagittarius 
(Nov. 23 to Dec. 
22) 


Stones Colours 


Cat's Eye, Diamond, Red, chocolate, pur- 
Coral, Zircon Sap- | ple, reddish white 
phire 


* 


Diamond, Emerald,| Blue, navy blue. 
Turquoise pink. red, white 


Pearl, Emerald,| Brown, green, blue, 
moonstone, Opal,| yellow, white, pink, 
Agate orange, lavender. 
scarlet 


Pearl, Ruby, sapphire | Green, sea green, sky 
blue, navy blue, white 
grey, golden, cream 


Diamond, Ruby,| Golden yellow, 
Peridot, Sapphire, ] white, crimson, red 
Moonstone 


Agate, « Topaz, Purple, blue, blackish 
Sapphire, Jade ye 1 low- 


Diamond. Sapphire, | Orange, yellow, blue, 
Moonstone, Opal, | pink 
Alcxandcrite 


Topaz, Peridot Yellow, brown, red, 
pink, blue, violet, 
orange 


| Zircon. Turquoise | Violet, blue, purple. 


mauve 


67 


Role ofcolours inhuman _ lives 


Signs Colours 
Capricorn Ruby, 
(Dec. 23 to Jan. 20) |} Garnet 


Sapphire, | Brown, violet, pur- 
ple, cinnamon, grey, 
black, white 

Black, white, blue, 


Aquarius Tourmaline. Opal. 
violet, brown 


(Jan. 21 to Feb. 19) Amethyst 
Mauve, green, blue, 


Pisces Bloodstone, Emerald 
pink, purple, mauve 


(Feb. 20 to March 
20) 


10 


What cofours signifyQ 


Although it sounds unbelievable, yet colours and numbers 
have close relations with each other. They are complementary 
to each other. A correct combination of the two can bring 
about peace, prosperity and happiness to the wearer. Men and 
women often experience that they are happy and peaceful in 
a particular environment. Similarly their moods are influenced 
by the colour of walls of rooms and the colour of furniture. 
Generally light colours bring about peace to mind and arc 
helpful in giving us sound sleep while dark colours cause 
unnecessary tension and a disturbed sleep. 


It was because of close relations between the two that 
ancient saints insisted on the use of particular colours and 
right types of gems. In modem times, too, numerology attaches 
major significance to numbers. In astro-numerology different 
solar signs have been allocated certain colours and numbers. 


We will discuss in brief here some salient features of some 
of the main colours. 


White: This colour signifies purity and ambition, a pure 
mind with authority. Those who wear this colour are 
systematic in work, prefer to be perfect, active and eager to 
complete the work on time. Such people may make a mark in 
the political sphere and learn a lot fiom the experiences of 
others. They are well sought after by the opposite sex 
members. They acquire patience, perseverance and zeal to 


What colours signify? 69 


work hard. They carry concern for the downtrodden and shed 
ego. 


Persons having numbers 1, 2, 4, 7 and 8 should prefer 
white colour besides those who are learned professionals. 


Those who have made white colour as part of their 
p«rsonality acquire self-discipline, and will have brilliant ideas 
to use their talent and think positively. If they can combine 
white with colours like green, black and maroon, they might 
get additional marital happiness, more faith on the Almighty 
and easily attract the attention of the tribe of the fair sex. 


Green: Persons who are fond of green colour prefer to 
live a happy life. They are mentally alert, quick in all matters, 
make progress in life, are sympathetic towards others and give 
importance to adjustment. They remain energetic, adjusting 
to circumstances, prefer change and a peaceful life. 


Orange: This colour signifies renunciation and a stage 
might come in one's life, if they continue to regularly wear 
the colour, when they develop a philosophical outlook. Such 
people have the maxim: simple living and high thinking. 
Constant use of the colour would purify the wearer’s mind, 
intellect and control his mind. They would speak the language 
of love and dedicate themselves for the noble causes and 
service to the human being. 


Red: This colour stands for boldness, bravery, power, 
energy and authority. Those who prefer to wear red colour 
love to live a life of and order and discipline. They are fond 
of leading an adventurous life-hunting, exploring, navigating 
and mountaineering. Persons of birth numbers 4 and 8 should 
wear this colour in combination with white. But this colour 
also denotes rashness, confusion and haughtiness. It is also 
the colour for quarrels, strifes, wars. destruction, fire and fury. 
The colour is useful for the newly married ladies as it imparts 
unending energy, force and vigour. But people with mental 


70 A complete book on gems 


ailments or suffering from insomnia or hypertension should 
not use it. 


Blue: This is a colour for those who are fond of good and 
beautiful thing in life. The wearer of this colour acquires 
philosophical outlook in life. The colour is associated with 
Venus, the planet of love and affection. Those who have 
interest in occult science and faith in God mostly prefer it. 
The colour makes one sometime easy going and generous in 
many matters even at personal cost and raises his nobler 
qualities. It keeps him cool. Such a person is a lover of beauty, 
nature, music, dance, drama, poetry, etc. This colour may 
induce sleep and rest and make the wearer calm. The person 
is fond of luxuries. He is soft spoken and gentle and generous 
to the fair sex. Light blue colour is linked with Jupiter which 
is the planet of joy and happiness. Such a person likes peace 
and harmony. To them domestic harmony is foremost. They 
are closely attached to homes and its people. They arc good 
mixers and impress other with their manners. They get easily 
attached to those they come into contact with, but even minor 
irritants in personal relations and ties disturb them beyond 
measure. They should combine white or grey colour in case 
they find that they are unable to resist temptations of life. 


Blue colour is good for investments and financial stability. 
Financial institutions are advised to use blue or grey colour 
on exteriors. That will help them to draw more business and 
multiply their assets and profits. A combination of red and 
black is also considered to be good for success. It is also an 
ideal combination for young ladies in public relation jobs to 
attract people's attention. It can also give benefit to those 
engaged in show business, entertainment, hotels, fashions. etc. 


Yellow: The colour indicates strength, wisdom, creative 
intelligence, wealth, happiness and prosperity. It is linked with 
a lot of good fortune and easy flow of money. The colour 
bestows ample opportunities to fair sex to acquire objectives 


What colours signify? 71 


with greater confidence, especially in personal matters. The 
colour produces an optimistic and righteous approach in life 
and the wearers will formulate nobles ideas. be ambitious, 
bold and generous, honest and truthful and engage himself in 
charities. They will acquire social acceptability and become 
popular. They would devote extra energies to the development 
of intellectual and literary talents. The use of this colour in 
the case of females has often prevented misunderstanding and 
irritants in marital life. When used in combination with blue, 
white, lemon or pale blue, it will improve the wearer's 
happiness and financial prospect in the long run. A 
combination of yellow and green is particularly favourable 
for success in financial matters. A combination of green. 
yellow, maroon and black is highly recommended for those 
who may have cut off family ties but arc wanting to restore 
those ties. Ladies who are fond of this colour will be desirous 
of indulging in conversations and will have the ability to 
impress others in social circles. 


Black: The black colour represents faithfulness, 
discipline, devotion, sincerity and hard work. Those who 
prefer this colour are serious minded and totally given up to 
hard work. They go up the ladder in life by hard work. their 
ability and intelligence. But the progress is slow although 
steady. They have great faith in the Creator and prefer to f3cc 
challenges in life. The wearer of black colour can have some 
relaxation from their otherwise serious and busy life if they 
can combine this with white and dark brown colour. Persons 
wearing black colour have a soft heart for the poor, the meek, 
the sick and the oppressed. They are justice loving. In old age 
they are inclined towards religion and philosophy and give 
up luxuries of life. 


Grey: Grey colour is preferred by those who are serious- 
minded and who believe in observing strict discipline, hard 
work and attainment of perfection. It also bestows qualities 
of caution and mental alertness which can save the wearer 


72 : A complete book on gems 


against deception and foul play. It is good for those who may 
be haunted by the evil spirits or bad dreams. If one fears 
imaginary mishaps, use of grey colour in combination with 
white or black or blue can give added confidence in love and 
life. It is also preferable for those who want to specialise in 
fields like engineering, research, architecture, town planning 
and big business magnates. 


Brown: This colour is associated with intellectual 
pursuits, depth of vision and creative faculties. All those who 
have to work in professional and educational fields must wear 
this. 


If one wears it with white or yellow, it can lead to success 
after initial set-backs. This is also the colour for research 
scholars and those who have a flair for writing. For those 
who have their birth number as 4 or 8 must wear it. 


Planets and Colours 


Different planets are associated with different colours as 
the following chart will show: 


Saturn-black, grey, brown and indigo 


Mars - Red, scarlet 

Jupiter - Purple, violet and mauve 
Sun -: Yellow, orange and golden 
Venus Lemon, light blue, silver white 
Mercury Green 

Rahu Reddish grey 

Ketu Brown and multi-coloured 
Moon White, green 

Uranus - Streaked and mixed 
Neptune Lavender 

Pluto Multi-coloured 


11 


(Birth numbers, cofours and 
suitable gems 


Planets are always on the move and our destiny is also 
changing accordingly. Some of the planets cause malefic 
effects on us on particular moves. The use of gems is, 
therefore, recommended to nullify that effect. Just as each of 
us falls under one of the twelve zodiac signs according to 
Astrology, people born on different dates have different likes, 
dislikes, moods and fortunes. It has been now established that 
numbers and planets have a relation among them. 


Here is a chart to chose suitable colours and wear gems 
accordingly for persons having different birth numbers. 


Birth Nos. Gems Colours 

1. Diamond, Ruby gold, cream, white 

2. Moon stone, Pearl white, pink 

3. Yellow Sapphire blue, orange, purple, mauve 

4, Ruby black, silver, blue, red, white 

5. Diamond, Emerald __ white, grey, pale green 

6. Emerald, Diamond, _ blue, lavender, greenish blue, 
Turquoise pink, rose 

7. Moon stone, Pearl, _ white, blue, pale green 
Cat's Eye red, purple, raddish white 

8. Black Diamond, navy blue, black, white, grey 
black Pearl, 


black Moon stone 
9 Coral, Ruby red, pink, crimson, violet 


12 


(Birthday gems based on 
@odiac signs 


Gemstones arc worn as a talisman or amulet to nullify or 
reduce the ill effect of adverse stars. Each zodiac sign (they 
are 12 in number) has been assigned a gem which is supposed 
to be lucky for the person of that particular sign. The following 
arc the details: 


Aries (Mesha): The first sign of zodiac has its ruler Mars. 
If Mars is afflicted or posted in a negative place in one's 
horoscope, he/she should wear Red Coral. That will improve 
his/her position. Red Coral will promote mental strength and 
glands in the body will function properly. 


Taurus (Rishabha): This sign is ruled by Venus and its 
gem is Diamond. If Venus is debilitated or placed in enemy's 
house or in a negative position, it will cause negative results. 
Diamond may reduce the ill effect of that and bring in wealth, 
name, fame and prosperity. 


Gemini (Mithun): Its ruler is Mercury and gem is Emerald. 
Use of this stone will ward off ill effects if Mercury is afflicted 
or not well placed. Besides, it will protect the nervous system 
and help in education and profession. 


Cancer (Karka): This sign has Moon as its ruler and its 
gem is Pearl. Moon's placement in energy house or debilitation 
may affect the health of the mother of the person, may cause 


Birthday gems based on Zodiac sings 75 


dull mind, gas trouble and asthmatic ailments. Pearl may 
reduce those troubles to a great extent and even bring about 
success in financial matters. 


Leo (Singha):Ruler is Sun and gem Ruby. Sun's 
debilitation or being placed in enemy house or negative place 
may lead to heart problems, pecuniar}' hardships, office 
problems, etc. Ruby will nullify many of the problems. 


Virgo (Kanya): The sign has its ruler Mercury and gem 
stone Emerald. The stone will bring about order in the 
digestive system and make the subject well-informed on all 
matters. 


Libra (Tula): Its ruler is Venus and gem Diamond. The 
wearing of Diamond will bring in enough riches and cause 
promotion. 


Scorpio (Vrichika): This eighth zodiac sign has Mars as 
its ruler and Red Coral its gem. Red Coral, if wom, will nullify 
the effect of any negative placement of Mars. On the other 
hand, the wearer will improve his financial position and his 
heart and mind also get strengthened. 


Sagittarius (Dhanur): Its ruler is Jupiter and gem Yellow 
Sapphire. If Jupiter is not placed in a favourable place or in 
its own house and debilitated, Yellow Sapphire will nullify 
its ill effects, bring name and fame to the wearer and get nid 
off diseases. 


Capricon (Makar): The ruler here is Saturn and gem Blue 
Sapphire. Saturn. if afflicted or posted in a negative position, 
will cause unfavourable results. Blue Sapphire will reduce 
the ill effects and make the wearer active mentally and 
physically. He may acquire success in landed and property 
cases and get unexpected money. 


Aquarius (Kumbha): Ruler is Saturn and gem Blue 


76 A complete book on gems 


Sapphire, in this case. The gem will bring about success in 
life and prosperity. 


Pisces (Meena): Ruler of this sign is Jupiter and gem is 
Yellow Sapphire. The gem will bring in good fortune. 


Recommended gems for persons bom! on English months: 


Garnet or Cinnamon brings in constancy 


January 


February Tourmaline causes success 
March Blood stone gives courage 
April Diamond or Cat's eye | Innocency 
May Emerald or Jade | Fidelity 

June Pearl or Agate Sincerity 
July Ruby or Green Sapphire} Nobleness 
August Peridot or Sardonyx | virtue 
September | Blue Sapphire |] Prosperity 
October Opal or Moon Stone !! sweet dreams 
November Topaz or Peridot | love (tone) 
December Turquoise or Zircon —_| wisdom 


Gems recommended for particular planets and the mediums to 
be used for them: 


Planets Mediums 


NE ER eStats taitaesarnuenecyaes Gold or Copper 
MOIrCULy srrrieieee ccs GOld 


DTT 13 =| eee een eee Reece Gold 
we Silver 


Liagigieiaceebeadevewsbteneseectety eoaee Five metals 
I rade tcsleaneueat: peceeceeeseageere FOUP DCESTS 


Birthday gems based on Zodiac sings il 


Birthday stones 


Sunday......................... Ruby 
MondaysticsisccnSucttindein. Pearl 
Tesla... .ccesececcceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeed Coral 
Wednesday.............:ceceeeeeeeees Emerald 
"Thur sday...........200cceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Topaz 
Friday: cjcccientetteaiee ni thes Diamond 


13 


Stars and gemstones 


Western concept 


Dates of birth Zodiac Gems 
sign recommended 

From April 15 to May 14 Aries Red Coral 
From May 15S to June 14 Taurus Diamond 
From June 15 to July 14 Gemini Emerald 

From July 15 to August 14 Cancer Pearl 

From August 15 to September 14 —_ Leo Ruby 

From September 15 to October 14. Virgo Emerald 

From October 15 to November 14 Libra Diamond 


From November 15 to December 14 Scorpio Red Coral 

From December 15 to January 14 ~— Sagittarius Yellow Sapphire 
From January 15 to February }4 Capricorn Blue Sapphire 
From February 15 to March 14 Aquarius Gomedha 

From March 15 to April 14 Pisces Cat's Eye 


Besides selecting gem stones according to zodiac signs, 
one can choose them according to stars. There are twenty-seven 
stars and each one of them is governed by a particular planet. 


Ashwini (Triangulum): Planet Ketu rules over this and 
the gem for Ketu is Cat's eye. It should be of blood red colour. 
Cat's Eye will make the wearer shed diseases and make him 
wealthy and popular among men. 


Stars and gemstones 79 


Bharani (Albhootain): This star is governed by Venus 
and the gem for Venus is Diamond. Use of Diamond will 
bring in prosperity and happiness. 


Kriattikn (Plaedes): The ruler of this star is Sun and its 
gem is Ruby. Its use will result in good health. end of enmity 
and success in financial deals. 


Rohini (Eldebaren): The ruler of Rohini is Moon and the 
gem for Moon is white Pearl. Persons born under this star 
can wear Pearl to achieve position. wealth and success in life. 


Mrigashira (Orian Baild): The ruler of this star is Mars. 
The gem of Mars is Coral. Wearing ofred Coral will bring 
peace of mind. purity of heart, boldness and help in controlling 
anger and passions. 


Ardra (Vetalguese): The ruler of this star is Rahu and its 
gem is Gomeda. Persons bom under this star can wear Gomeda 
for getting fortune. It also bestows intelligence, fame, success 
in all ventures and peace of mind and self-confidence. 


Punarvasu (Polux): The lord of this star is Jupiter. The 
gem for Jupiter is Yellow Sapphire (Pukhraj). It brings good 
luck, gives success, fulfillment of desires, healthy body and 
mind and makes one rich. 


Pushy ami (Prescpee): Its lord is Saturn and gem is Blue 
Sapphire. Persons born under Pushya star can wear Blue 
Sapphire and get success. It brings in money, riches, prosperity, 
fame, name, house, property, conveyance and luxuries, peace 
of mind and spiritual inclination. 


Ashelsha (Scickle): The lord of this star is Mercury and 
its gem is Emerald. Persons bom under this star should wear 
Emerald to gel success. They will get good rewards for their 
talent and get happiness and fortune. The gems washes away 
their sins. 


80 A complete book on gems 


Maughaa (Regulus): The star is ruled by Ketu. Its gem is 
Cat's Eye. Persons born under this star should wear Cat's Eye 
to get name and fame. They turn spiritual and God-fearing. 


Poorva Phalguni (Danebola): Its lord is Venus. Persons 
born under this star should wear Diamond to get success. The 
gem will give them status, happy family life, luxuries and 
property. Business will go up many fold and they get charm 
and beauty. 


Uttara Phalguni (Danebola): Its ruler is Sun. The gem 
for this star is Ruby. Persons bom under Uttara Phalguni can 
wear Ruby to get luck. It will bestow upon them health, wealth, 
happiness, status and success. 


Hasta (Karbus): The planet of this star is Moon. Its gem 
is White Pearl. Hasta-born should wear White Pearl as their 
lucky gem. By doing so, they get peace of mind, creativity, 
longevity, good health, success, riches, name and fame. 


Chitra (Spyka): The lord of Chitra is Mars and gem is 
Coral. Red Coral will get them get luck, good health, wisdom, 
spirituality, success, position and domestic harmony. 


Swati (Arkchoorus): The lord of this star is Rahu and its 
gem Gomeda. So, Swati-bom person should wear Gomeda 
to get success in their business or profession. It also can ward 
off any adverse effect of evil eye and black magic and would 
make a person active, raise his status and give him wealth. 


Vishakha (Libra): Its Lord is Jupiter and gem Yellow 
Sapphire, Vishakha-born should wear Yellow Sapphire to get 
luck. It would also bestow royal honour, prestige and health. 


Anuradha (Alyklean): Its lord is Saturn. Its gem is the 
Blue Sapphire. So Anuradha-born persons should wear Blue 
Sapphire for a happy life. It bestows happiness, prosperity 
and also wisdom. 


Stars and gemstones 8] 


Jyeshta (Enteris): The ruler of this star is Mercury and 
the gem of Mercury is Emerald. So Jyeshta-bom persons 
should wear Emerald as their lucky gem. It would help them 
to improve their behaviour and conduct, cool them down and 
they will be able to enjoy happy life. 


Mool (Ash-Sahullah): The ruler of this star is Ketu and 
the gem Cat's Eye. So Mool-born persons should wear Cat's 
Eye as their lucky gem. It will keep them calm and peaceful. 
They will get help from relatives and friends and win over 
encmies. 


Poorvashada (On-nice): The ruler of this star is Venus 
and the gem Diamond. So such persons should wear Diamond 
as their lucky gem. By doing so, they would have wealth, 
comfort, house, vehicle, landed property, etc. 


Uttarshshaarhaa (Al-Baldah): The ruler of this star is 
Sun and the gem Ruby. Hence those bom under this star should 
wear Ruby. It will bring wealth and result in a prosperous 
life. 


Shravana (Altepar): The owner of this star is Moon and 
the gem Pearl. Persons born under this star should wear White 
Pearl. They will have a worth-living life. 


Dhanishta (Dolphinus): The ruler of titis star is Mars and 
the gem Red Coral. So the Dhanishta-born persons should 
wear Red Coral to have success in all their ventures. They 
will rise in profession and the gem will protect them from 
dangers and accidents. 


Shatabhishshaa (Sad-al-Malika): The owner of this star 
is Rahu and the gem Gomeda. So persons born under this star 
should wear Gomeda. It will ensure success in life, good 
health, and a happy life and strength to win over estranged 
relatives. 


82 A complete book on gems 


Poorvabhndrapada (Pangasol): The owner of this star 
is Jupiter and the gem the Yellow Sapphire. So such persons 
should wear Yellow Sapphire as their lucky gem. That would 
get them back their lost prosperity, children's welfare. 
promotion in service, professional success. and happiness. 


Uttarabhadra: The ruler of this star is Saturn and the 
gem of Saturn is Blue Sapphire. So Uttarabhadra-bom persons 
should wear Blue Sapphire. It brings success in the profession 
or business, acquisition of building and landed property, name. 
fame and respect in society. 


Revati: The owner of this star is Mercury and the gem of 
Mercury is Emerald. Hence, Revati-bom persons should wear 
Emerald as their lucky gem which will give them comforts, 
get them property and success in profession. 


14 


(Numbers and gemstones 


In the previous chapters readers were told as to how to 
chose gemstones according to their zodiac signs or stars. There 
is yet another way of selecting them on the basis of numbers. 
This is. according to knowledgeable persons. more accurate 
as planets work on numbers very powerfully. 


The following arc the details: 


Ashwini: The gem for Ashwini-bom person is Cat's eye, 
but according to zodiac division or Rasi, it is Red Coral. 
Therefore Ashwini-born persons with 1,3,9 numbers should 
put on Red Coral and those with 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 numbers 
should wear Cat's eye. Those who have their number as 4 
should wear only Gomeda. 


Bharani: The gem for Bharani-born persons according 
to stars is Diamond, but according to zodiac house or Rasi it 
is Red Coral. Therefore those who have their numbers 1,3,9 
should wear Red Coral but those with 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 numbers 
should put on Diamond to get benefit from the gemstone. 


Kritikaa: According to the star, its gem is Ruby but 
according to Rasi it is Red Coral. Those with numbers I, 3, 6 
and 9 should wear Red Coral and those with 2, 4, 5 and 7 
should get Ruby. Those who have their numbers as 8, should 
wear only Aquamarine. 


Rohini: According to its ruling star, the gem is White 
Pearl, but for rasi it is Diamond. Therefore, those who are 


84 A complete book on gems 


born under Rohini nakshtra and have their birth numbers as 

1,9, 2, 4, 7should put on White Pearl while those having 5, 6 
and 8 numbers should wear Diamond. Those having 3 as their 
number should wear Topaz to derive best advantage. 


Mrigashira: According to the ruling star of this nakshtra, 
the gem is Red Coral, but according to rasi it is diamond or 
Emerald. Therefore those born under this who have their 
numbers as 2,4, 5,6, 8 and 9 should wear Diamond and those 
having 1, 3, 9 numbers should use Red Coral. 


Avdra: Star gem is Gomeda for Avdra-born persons. But 
according to rasi it is Emerald. Those whose birth number 
are 1, 2,4,5,6 can put in Gomeda while those with nos. 1, 2, 
4, 5, 6, 8 and 7 can wear Emerald. But those with numbers 3 
and 9 should wear only their birth stone. 


Punarvasu: The gem for Punarvasu-born persons is 
Yellow Sapphire, but according to rasi, it is Emerald. Such 
persons whose birth numbers are 1, 3, 9 should wear Yellow 
Sapphire while those with 2, 4,5, 6, 7 and 8 numbers should 
put on Emerald to improve their lot. 


Pushya: The gem for Pushya-born persons is Blue 
Sapphire, if judged by stars, but according to rasi it is White 
Pearl. Therefore those whose birth numbers are 1, 2, 4, 7and 
9 should wear Pearl and those with numbers 5, 6 and 8 should 
wear Blue Sapphire. Those with number 3 should not use any 
of them but put on their birth stone. 


Ashlesha: The gem for Ashlesha-born person, according 
to star, is Emerald but White Pearl according to rasi. Therefore 
those with numbers 1, 2, 7 and 9 should wear Pearl and with 
numbers 4, 5, 6 and 8 should have Emerald to get benefit. 
Those with number 3 should wear only their birth stone. 


Makha or Maughaa: The gem for Makha-born persons 
is Cat's Eye, but based on rasi it is Ruby. Those who have 


Numbers and gemstones 85 


their number as 1,3,4 and 9 should go in for Ruby while 
those with birth numbers 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 should put on Cat's 
Eye to extract maximum benefits. 


Poorva Phalguni: According to the star the gem is 
Diamond, but according to rasi it is Ruby. Poorva Phalguni- 
bom persons born with 1,3,9 numbers should wear Ruby as 
their lucky gem but those with 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 8, 9 numbers should 
wear Diamond to improve their lot. 


Uttara Phalguni: According to star its gem is Ruby. 
According to rasi also it is Ruby. So the Uttara Phalguni- 
born should wear Ruby. But 8 and 6 bom should avoid Ruby 
and wear their birth stone. 


Hasta: According to the star the gem is Pearl and 
according to the rasi it is Emerald. Persons bom on 2, 7, 9 
can wear Pearl while persons born on 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8can have 
Emerald. The number 3 bom person should avoid both and 
wear their birth stone. 


Chitra: The gem for Chitra is Coral. But according to 
rasi it is Emerald/Diamond. The 1, 3, 9 bom Chitra persons 
can wear Red Coral while those having 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 
born can wear Emerald/Diamond. 


Swati: According to star, the gem is Gomeda, but 
according to rasi it is Diamond. The 1, 4 born can wear 
Gomeda while 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9can wear Diamond for success. 
The 3 born should wear only Birth Stone. 


Vishakha: According to the star, the gem is Yellow 
Sapphire, but according to the rasi it is Diamond. The 1, 3,9 
bom persons can wear Yellow Sapphire, or Coral while the 2, 
4, 5, 6, 7, 8 bom persons can wear Diamond. 


Anuradha: According to the star the gem is Blue 
Sapphire, but according to the rasi it is Red Coral. So persons 


86 A complete book on gems 


bom on 1,3, 9can wear Red Coral and persons bom on 5, 6, 
7.8 can wear Blue Sapphire. The 2 and 4-bom persons should 
avoid both. and wear only their birth stone. 


Jyeshta: According to the star the gem is Emerald. 
According to the rasi it is Red Coral. So persons bom on 1, 3, 
9 can wear Red Coral, whereas 2, 4, 5. 6, 7, 8 bom persons 
can wear Emerald for success in life. 


Moola: According to the star the gem is Cat's Eye, 
according to the rasi it is Yellow Sapphire. Persons born on 
1,3. 9canwear Yellow Sapphire and those bor on 2. 5,6. 7, 
8 can wear Cat's Eye for good health and prosperity. The 
number 4 should avoid both, and wear Gomeda. 


Purviashada: According to star, the gem is Diamond, but 
according to rasi it is Yellow Sapphire. Persons bom on 1.3, 
9 can wear Yellow Sapphire and persons born on 2, 4. 5. 6, 7, 
8 can wear Diamond. 


Uttarashada: According to the star, the gem is Ruby, but 
according to rasi it is Blue Sapphire. Persons bom on |}, 3,4, 
9 can wear Ruby whereas persons bom on 2, 5, 6, 7, 8 can 
wear Blue Sapphire for prosperity and success. 


Shravana: According to the star the gem is White Pearl. 

But according to the rasi itis Blue Sapphire. Persons bom on 

1, 2, 4. 9canwear White Pearl whereas persons bom on 3, 5, 
6, 7, 8 can wear Blue Sapphire. 


Dhanishta: According to the star the gem is Red Coral 
and according to rasi it is Blue Sapphire. Persons bom on 1, 
3, 9 can wear Red Coral while those with 5, 6, 7, 8 numbers 
can wear Blue Sapphire. Those with numbers 2 and 4 should 
wear only their birth stone. 


Shatabhishha: According to the star, the gem is Gomeda, 
but.according to the rasi it is Blue Sapphire. So persons born 


Numbers and gemstones 87 


on I, 2,4can wear Gomeda and persons bom on 5, 6, 7, 8 can 
wear Blue Sapphire. The 3, 9 bom should avoid wearing any 
one of them and wear only their birth stones. 


Uttarabhadra: According to the star the gem is Blue 
Sapphire and according to the rasi it is Yellow Sapphire. 
Persons bom on 1, 3, 9 can wear Yellow Sapphire whereas 
persons bom on 5, 6, 7.8can wear Blue Sapphire. But persons 
bom on 2 and 4 should wear only their birth stones. 


Revati: Going by the star, the gem is Emerald, but 
according to rasi, itis Yellow Sapphire. Persons bom with 
birth numbers 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 should wear Emerald and 
those bom on 1, 3 and 9 dates should have Yellow Sapphire. 


15 


(Numerology and gems 


Gemstones can also be chosen with the help of numerology 
on the basis of the date on which a person was bom, on the 
month of birth and the total value of name number. 


Date: All those persons who are born on dates |, 10, 19 
and 28 are governed by the Sun. Therefore they should wear 
Ruby, Garnet, Red Coral, Amber, Golden Topaz or Peridot. 
The stone would give strength to the Sun and the wearer would 
get his lot improved. 


Those who were born on 2, !1, 20 and 29 of any month 
are ruled by Moon. It is advisible for them to wear Moon 
stone, Pearl or Jade. That would give them mental peace and 
a sound sleep besides their blood circulation improving. 


Persons born on 3, 12, or 21 of any month are governed 
by Jupiter. They should put on Yellow Sapphire, Yellow Topaz, 
Yellow Tourmaline or Emerald to enhance intelligence and 
comforts of life. The stone would also lessen disorders of 
chest and lungs of the native. 


Those whose dates of birth happened to be 4, 13, 22 or 3) 
(irrespective of the months) should wear Diamond, Zircon, 
White Coral, Gomeda or Hessonite Garnet to get energy, 
power, financial stability, progress and get rid off knee 
problem. 


Persons bom on 5, 14,23 should wear Emerald, Diamond, 
White Sapphire, Green Tourmaline, Green Onyx to enhance 


Numberology amd. gems 89 


writing skill, get gains in business nnd speculation, happiness 
and financial stability. Diseases of liver, lungs or nerves are 
controlled within limit by wearing any one of them. 


Persons whose dales of birth fall on 6, 15 and 24 of any 
month are advised to wear Ruby, Red Coral, Turquoise, 
Diamond, white Tourmaline to attain prosperity and harmony 
at home, co-operation from others and be popular among 
people. 


Persons bom on 7, 16,25 of any month should wear While 
Pearl, Cat's Eye or Tiger Eye to be gainful in health, wealth 
and spiritual field. Professionals like music composers, actors, 
scientists and researchers are especially gainers by wearing 
one of them. 


Persons bor on 8, 17, 26 of any month should wear Lapis 
Lazuli or Blue Sapphire and Blue Tourmaline, to improve 
health, energy, fortune and profits. The gem would take care 
of delay, obstacles and poverty. 


Persons whose birthdays happen to fall on 9, 18 or 27 
should wear Red Coral or Ruby or Red Jasper or Red 
Tourmaline to control anger, to get boldness, healing and 
strength. The stone is supposed to lessen problems of kidney. 
piles and fever. 


Like dates of one's birth, the month on which he/she was 
bom has also its effect on the person, And accordingly he or 
she has to decide on the gemstones. Here are the details: 


Persons bom between January 15 and February 14 are 
governed by Saturn. In order to be happy, have luck, free from 
the diseases of bile, joint pains and nervousness, they should 
wear either Blue Sapphire or Emerald. 


Those who were bom between February 15 and March 
14 are also governed by the planet Saturn. They should also 
wear Blue Sapphire or Lapis Lazuli or Amethyst to have riches 


90 A complete book on gems 


nnd honour or better status in society. Wearing one of them 
would help them in lessening their kidney problem. 


Persons whose birthday falls between March 15 and April 

14 are ruled by Jupiter. They are, therefore, advised to wear 

Yellow Sapphire, Golden Topaz, Yellow Topaz or Amlthyst. 

They would gain in courage and gel rid off fickle-mindedness 
and insomnia. 


Persons born between April 15 and May 14 are governed 
by the planet Mars. They would get energy, dominance over 
others and good luck and get rid off eye, ear, teeth and infection 
problems to a great extent ifthey wear Red Coral. Red Jasper, 
Red Tourmaline or Garnet. 


Venus rules the destiny of those who are born between 
May and June 14. Such persons should wear Diamond or 
Turquoise or white Zircon. That would bestow luxuries of 
life to them and they would become prosperous and generous. 
To some extent they would be relieved of respiratory problems. 


Those born between June 15 and July 14 are subject to 
governance by Mercury. And they should wear Emerald, 
Aquamarine, Onyx or Green Tourmaline to earn profit in 
business and improve their luck. 


Persons born between July 15 and August 14 are ruled by 
Moon. They will get success in arts, speculation and 
occupation if they wear Pearl, Moon Stone or Jade. 


Those whose birthdays fall between the period August 15 
and September 14 are ruled by Sun. They should wear Ruby 
or golden Topaz or Amber to get honour, favour from the 
State and improve financial status. 


Persons born between September 15 to October 14 are 
ruled by Mercury. They should wear Emerald or Green 
Tourmaline or Aquamarine to have a steady growth and reduce 
nervousness. 


Numherology amd gems 91 


Those who were born between October 15 and November 

14 arc governed by Venus. They arc advised to wear Diamond 

or Turquoise to acquire charm, energy and a luxurious life 
style and also to reduce skin and blood problems. 


Persons born between November 15 and December 14 
are ruled by Mars. Red Coral or Red Jasper or Cornelian are 
the stones recommended for them to get energy. courage, 
property and luck. 


Finally persons horn between December 15 and January 
15 arc ruled by the planet Jupiter. The gemstones for them 
are Yellow Sapphire or Yellow Jasper or Yellow Tourmaline. 


The science of numerology says that each letter represents 
some value. 


Yet another method to determine the suitability of a 
particular gemstone is based on the value of each letter. For 
finding out the exact day in any month whose vibrations will 
be favourable, one has to work out the occult number produced 
by the letters of the name. This process is ancient and based 
on Chaldean and Hebrew alphabet. In this the total value of 
all the letters is added to form a single digit. 


Each letter has a value as mentioned below: 


A=! G=3 N=5 1=4 
B=2 H=5 0=7 V=6 
Cc=3 | and J=1 P=8 V=6 
D=4 K =2 Q=! W=6 
E= L=3 R=2 X=5 
F=8 M=4 S23 Y=! 
andZ=7 


To give an example, suppose the name of a person is 
George Lloyd. The total value of each letter will be as follows 

39723525 | 95 418=43=443=7 

33714=18 


Therefore, he should wear a stone for ‘7° number. 


16 


cyirst fetter of names and 
gems recommended 


(based on “Indian concept) 


First letters Lords of Gems 
signs indicated 

1. choo, che, cho, la, lee. la. Mars Coral 
loo, ley, low, aa Aries 

2. €€, 00, ey, 0, Vaa, vee, VOO. Venus Diamond 
vey, vo Taurus 

3. kaa, kee, koo, ghau, ddau, Mercury Emerald 
chhau, ke, ko, haa Gemini 

4, haa, hoo, hey, ho. ddaa, Moon Pear) 
ddee, ddoo, ddey. ddo Cancer 

5. maa, mee, moo, mey, mo, Sun Ruby 
ttaa, ttee, noo, ttey, Leo 

6. tta, paa, pee, po, poo. pey. Mercury Emerald 
shshau, nnhau,tthau, Virgo 

7. raa, rec, too, rey, ro, thaa, Venus Diamond 
thee, thoo, tcy Libra 

8. tho, naa, nee. noo, ney, no, Mars Coral 
yaa, yee, yuo Scorpio 

9. yey, y°. bhaa, bhee, phoo, Jupiter yYe | low 
dhau, phaa, ddaa, bhey Sagittarius | '*Sapphire 

10. bho, jaa, jee, khee, khoo, Saturn (Blue 
khey, kho, gaa, gee Capricorn X Sapphire 

11. goo, gey, go, saa. see, loo, Saturn «Blue 
ley. low, aa Aries r Sapphire 

12. dhee, dhoo, thaw, jhaw, Jupiter /Yellow 


bhaw, dhey, chaa, chee Pisces USapphire 


First letter of names , and gems recommended 93 


More often than not, we find that people are not aware of 
their birth day. Then how arc they to choose their lucky gem! 
For them there is also a way out. They can decide the lucky 
gem on the basis of the first letter of their names because of 
first letter of a name points to the star the person is ruled by. 


Che, Chu, Cho, La: According to these letters the star is 
Ashwini and the lord of the star is Ketu. Thus, the gem to be 
worn by these persons is Cat's Eye or Tiger Eye. By wearing 
Cat's Eye such person can gel better position in life, financial 
stability, happiness, multiply profits, get success in education 
and research, etc. 


Lec, Lu, Le, Lo: According to these letters the star is 
Bharani, Lord Venus and the gem is Diamond/Turquoise. By 
wearing a Diamond or Turquoise one can gel promotion, 
luxuries, intelligence, a happy married life, children, 
conveyance and property. 


A, E, U, Y: According lo these letters the star is Krittika, 
lord is Sun and the gem is Ruby, Star Ruby or Garnet. By 
wearing one of these such a person whose name starts with 
A, E, U. Y can have success in whatever one does, get support 
from superiors and win legal cases. 


O, Va, Vee, Voo: According to these letters the star is 
Rohini, Brahma the lord and the gem is Pearl, Moon Stone or 
Jade. By wearing it one can get lost property, enemies turn 
into friends and he/she would also get name, fame and 
popularity. 


Ve, Vo, Ki: According to these letters the star is 
Mrigashira, the lord Mars and the gem Is Red Coral, Red 
Comelian or Red Tourmaline. By wearing these one can gel 
oratorial skill, prosperity, boldness and acquires firmness in 
taking decisions. These also protect one from all sorts of 
accidents and weapons. 


94 A complete book on gems 


Ku, Ghau, Dau, Ka, Ja, Cha: According to these letters 
the star is Ardra, lord Rahu and the gem Gomeda/Hessonite, 
Garnet or Jaichint. By wearing these one can get a clear mind, 
and progress. One would come out of a bad company, bad 
habits and get control over short temper. Success is ensured 
in the occupation one is pursuing. 


Key, Ko, Hau, Hi: According to these letters, the star is 
Punarvasu, lord Jupiter and the gem Yellow Sapphire, Golden 
Topaz, Yellow Topaz or Amethyst. By wearing one of these 
onc becomes intelligent, acquires health, good position in life 
and a happy family life. 


Hau, Hi, Ho, Daa: The.se letters belong to the star 
Pushyami. Its gems are Blue Sapphire, Amethyst/Lapis Lazuli. 
Blue Tourmaline or Star Sapphire. Through uiese one can 
acquire attention, property, good character and position. Health 
problems connected to ‘vata’ come down. Obstacles and 
disappointments in life get reduced. 


Dee, Doo, Dc, Dou: These letters belong to the star 
Aslesha. Its gems are Emerald, Aquamarine, Green 
Tourmaline, Green Onyx and Malachite. By wearing these 
one gets mental peace, pursue higher education, get happiness 
and success. Health problems and nervousness will be 
considerably reduced. 


Ma, Moo, Mow, Mu, Mee: These letters belong to 
Maughaa. Its gems are Cat's Eye and Tiger Eye. By wearing 
these one can get wealth, luxuries, a happy life, acquires 
intelligence, property and success in all ventures. One is also 
inclined towards spiritualism. 


Mo, Taa, Tto, Tu: These letters belong to the star Purva 
Phalguni. Its gems are Diamond, Turquoise, Spathic, White 
Tourmaline and Zircon. By putting one of them, one can get 
oratorial skill, luxuries, attention, quick marriage in life, 
boldness and happiness. 


First letter of names ,-and gems recommended 95 


Bhcy, Bhow, Bhan: These letters belong to the star Uttara 
Phalguni. The gems arc Ruby, Star Ruby, Garnet, Peridot and 
Golden Topaz. One can achieve a charming personality, win 
friends and get support from his superiors. There is abundant 
flow of money, luxuries and one gets property also. 


Poo, Sha, No, Tu: These letters belong to the star Hasta. 
Its gems are Moon Stone, Pearl or Jade. One can achieve 
mental peace, good health, longevity and affection from family 
members. Lung problems are solved and one gets a strong 
mind, status and abundant money. 


Re, Ree: These letters belong to the star Chitra. The lord 
of the star is Mars and gems are Red Coral. Red Jasper, 
Comelian or Red Tourmaline. By having these on the body 
one can achieve success in legal cases, job, marriage, money 
and success in business. They would protect one from dangers 
from fire and electricity. 


Ru, Rey, Roo, Taa: These letters belong to the star Swati. 
Its lord is Rahu and gems are Gomeda/Hessonite Garnet and 
Jaichint. By wearing these one can achieve success in legal 
cases. These also bestow good health and status, remove 
obstacles and disappointments and make one prosperous. 


Thi, The, Thoo, Thow: These letters belong to Vishakha 
star. Its lord is Jupiter and gems are Yellow Sapphire. 
Amethyst, Yellow Zircon, Yellow Tourmaline and Yellow 
Topaz. They bestow the wearer God's grace, children, good 
wife, property, intelligence and happiness. 


Nee, Ni, Noo, Ney: These letters belong to the star 
Anuradha. Its gems are Blue Sapphire. Lapiz Lasuli, Blue 
Zircon, Blue Tourmaline or Star Sapphire. By wearing any of 
these one can get the power of attracting others like a magnet, 
and make progress in life. They also bring in peace of mind 
and quick success in all ventures. 


96 A complete book on gems 


Now, Ya, Yee, Yuoo: The star of these letters is Jyeshta. 
Lord is Mercury and gems are Emerald/Aquamarine/Green 
Onyx/Green Tourmaline and Green Jade. These bring success, 
happiness, skill to make decisions and implement them. These 
also help in controlling all types of nervous problems. 


Bhcy, Bhaa, Bhae: These letters belong to the Moola star. 
Its gem is Cat's Eye. Through this one can achieve property 
and ward offevil spirits and bad company. It will help him 
get rid of chronic diseases and ensure financial position. 


Bhoo, Dhaa, Dhaa: These letters belong to the star 
Purvashada. Its gems are Diamond, Spathic, Turquoise, White 
Toumialine or American Diamond. By wearing these one can 
get house, conveyance, Jewels, property, happy married life 
and children. These also help in getting rid off diseases. 


Bhow, Jow, Jee, Jow: These letters belong to Uttarashada. 
Its gems arc Ruby, Star Ruby, Peridot, Golden Topaz, or 
Garnet. One can get support from superiors, friends and 
relatives on wearing them. They would get favours from 
government and would be happy and get property. 


Khec, Khey, Know: These letters belong to the star 
Shravana. Its gems are White Pearl, Jade or Moon Stone. By 
wearing them one can achieve mental peace and a lot of 
wealth. They would make one bold and attract help and 
support of the opposite sex. 


Gaa, Gi, Gu, Gee: According to these letters the star is 
Dhanishla and its gems are Red Coral, Red Tourmaline, Red 
Jasper or Red Cornelian. These can hep one become calm. 
These give physical and mental strength to the wearer, 
property, name, fame and wealth. 


Gow, Saa, Si, Soo: According to these letters the star is 
Shatabhisha, lord Rahu and the gems arc Gomeda, Hessonite 
Garnet or Jaichint. If one wears one of these stones he can get 


17 


Auspicious times Jor wearing gems 


Moon Stone: This stone or white Pearl should be worn 
when Moon is in Taurus. It should be fixed on a silver ring 
and put on a Monday. 


Red Coral: It should be put into person When Mars is in 
Capricorn or Aries. The metal used for it should be either 
gold or copper. The ring or locket should be worn on a Tuesday. 


F.mcrald: The auspicious time for wearing this gem is 
when mercury is in Virgo. It should be fixed on a gold ring 
and worn on a Wednesday. 


Diamond: This gemstone should be wom when Venus is 
in Taurus or Pisces. The ring should be made of silver or 
platinum. Friday is the day for it to be worn. 


Yellow Sapphire: This stone should be worn when Jupiter 
is in Cancer. The metal in which it is set should be gold and 
the day Thursday. 


Cat's Eye: Auspicious time for wearing this gemstone is 
when Ketu is in Sagittarius. The ring should be of silver or 
steel and it should be worn on a Wednesday or Saturday. 


Blue Sapphire: This gem is wom during the transit of 
Saturn into Libra. The metal used for the ring should be of 
silver or steel and it should be wor on a Saturday. 


Gomeda: The period for wearing this precious stone is 


Auspicious times for wearing gems 99 


when Rahu is in Gemini. It should be fixed on a gold ring and 
the day should be Wednesday. 


Ruby: It should be put on when the Sun is in Aries or 
Leo. Set in a gold ring, it should be worn on a Sunday. 


The following table will help the readers in determining 
which metal should be used, the weight of the stone, the finger 
in which it should be worn, the auspicious day and the time 
for wearing the ring regarding some leading stones: 


Metal Weight |Finger|] — 
(in carats) 


Gold/silver Thursday 
(13-30 to 15:00) 
Emerald | Gold/silver Wednesday 
12 to 13:30 
Pearl { Silver Monday 
(7:30 to 9:00) 
Rub> Gold Friday 
(16:30 lo 18:00) 
Diamond Gold/ Friday 
Platinum (10:30 to 12:00) 
Dark Red Coral | Gold Tuesday 
(13:00 to 15:00) 
Toper } Gold Thursday 
(15:00 to 16:30) 
Blue Sapphire | Gold Saturday 
(09:00 to 13:00) 
Yellow Sapphire] Gold | Thursday 
(15.00 to 16.30) 
Gomed Gold/silver Saturday 
‘(noon or midnight) 
Cats' Eye Silver Saturday 


| (ncon or midnight) 


18 


Consecration before 
wearing stones 


It is by now well known that a particular gemstone is worn 
on a particular day and at a particular time. That is not all. 
Certain rituals have got to be gone through to ‘awaken’ the 
power of the planet which rules the gemstone. This is done to 
make it give off its vibrations or emanations from its material 
body in a faster manner. Besides the particular days, metals 
in which the stone is set is equally important as they are related 
to the planets and the stars. 


Let us discuss the process one by one: 


Ruby: The rituals for wearing Ruby should be carried 
out on a Sunday during the transit when sun is in Aries or Leo 
between 5 a.m. to 6 a.m. or 12 noon and | p.m. 


Collect wheat, dhoop sticks, yellow flowers, a piece of 
red silk cloth and 'prasad' made of wheat. Wash the ring in 
water, apply sandal and place it on the red cloth. Bum dhoop 
sticks and offer yellow flowers and ‘prasad’ to the ring reciting 
‘mantra’ for the Sun which is the king of the planets. Persons 
bom in the months of July and/or on a Sunday or on the Ist, 
1 Oth, 19th, 28th day of any month are benefitted greatly if 
they put Ruby on their person. 


The gem must be bought only on a Sunday and kept 
wrapped up in a cloth for a week. If nothing untoward happens 


Consecration before wearing stones 101 


during the period, then it should be worn next Sunday after 
consecration. 


The ritual for wearing on a Ruby should be during the 
auspicious moments of Ravipushya which happens once in a 
constellation year or during a Pushya Star constellation or on 
a Sunday. 


The stone is no doubt very expensive and if one cannot 
purchase it, then he should tic around the arm on a Sunday 
the roots of Vilva Vriksha after washing them with pure water 
or milk and wrapping them in a piece of pink thread. 


Mantra for invoking the Sun: 


Udayang thang mahateja tejasyee 
ubhayapradahal doomirakshasugamanang 
Sooryam avahavyamham. 


Recite the above mentioned ‘mantra’ 108 times 
or 


Ashwa Dwajaaya Vidhmahe 
Paasha Hasthaaya Dheemahi 
Tanno Surya Prachodayath 


Pea rl(Mukta, Shashiratna, Chandraratna, or Shashipnya): 
Moon is the king of the constellation and its gem is white 
Pearl, Like moon, Pearl too gives peace of mind and 
contentment. 


Natives born in June or on the 2nd, 1) th, 20th or 29th of 
uny month should wear it to have a successful life. 


The rituals for wearing Pearl should be done on Monday. 
It should be purchased also on a Monday and kept wrapped 
in a white silk cloth till the next Monday. The consecration 
process should be carried out during Pushya constellation, 
Sompushya or during amritasiddhi yoga on a Monday (Chandra 
Hora) between 6 am. and 7 am. or 8 p.m.and 9 p.m. 


102 A complete book on gems 


If Pearl is not available, a piece of Kirni tree ‘stem can be 
tied in a white thread and worn around the neck. 


Have one plate, rice, curd, Jasmine flowers, a ‘kalash’, 
photo of Shankar and Parvati and ‘prasad’. 


Pour curd in the ‘kalash' and place the ring in it. 'Kalash' 
should be adorned with sandal, turmeric. Spread rice in it, 
close the lid of the *kalash’ with a plate and place the photo 
on it. Do 'archana' of Parvati with Jasmine flowers. Thereafter 
do 'archana' of Moon with rice. The ‘prasad’ should be 'milk 
kheer’. Put on the ring and offer milk and sugar Sandy to the 
poor. 


Mantra for invoking the Moon: 


Padma Dwajaaya Vidhamahe 
Hema Roopaya Dheemahi 
Tanno Soma Prachodayath 


Emerald (Gaoortyat, Haridraratnag, Marakat, or soumya): 
This gemstone (one of the 5 gems) is favoured by Mercury, 
the prince among planets, ensuring intelligence and success 
in education and career. 


For those who are bom under the sign Gemini, Virgo, 
Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Pisces, also bom on 5th, 14th and 
23rd of any month, this precious stone brings long life, fame, 
family happiness and public honour. 


The rituals for purification of Emerald should be done on 
a Pyshya constellation day or Ravi Puishya or Gurupushya or 
during Raviyaga hours on a Wednesday between 6 a.m. and 7 
am. or | p.m. and 2 p.m. 


One will require one plate, one steel 'kalash’, rice, sandal, 
kumkum, betel leaves. coconut, green cloth, flower garland, 
milk, sugar, camphor, rose water, 'prasad' of sweets and 
cardamom to do the 'puja’. 


Consecration before wearing stones 103 


Spread rice over a plate. Apply sandal—3 lines each, five 
times, one beside the other in the middle line. Put the ‘kalash’ 
over rice plate and pour milk into the *kalash’ mixed with 
sugar, saffron, cardamom, camphor and rose water. Put the 
Emerald ring in the milk. Place 5 betel leaves on the 'kalash’, 
Place green cloth, garland and 'prasad' and invoke Lakshmi 
‘mantra’ 324 times. 


Then wear the ring. Distribute green gram to the needy 
after the ‘puja’. 
Mantra for invoking Mercury: 
Ouuumm brang breeng broung budhhya namah 


or 


Maha Devaicha Vidhmahe 
Vishnu Patnaicha Dheemahi 
Tanno Lakshmi Prachodayath 


Red Coral: This gemstone is the favourite of Mars, the 
anny chief of the planets. The persons bom under Aries and 
Scorpio signs are greatly benefitted if they wear this stone. 
Persons bom under Cancer, Leo, Capricorn or Pisces may 
also be in an advantageous position if they wear it. Those 
bom in the month of January and those bom on 9, 18 and 27 
should also wear it. 


The ritual should be carried out Gn a Tuesday or a Thursday 
or a Sunday during Mars Hora, 1.e., 


Tuesday-6 a.m. to 7 a.m. or | p.m. to 2 p.m. 
Thursday-7 a.m. to 8 a.m. or2 p.m. to 3 p.m. 
Sunday-5 a.m. to 6 a.m. or 12 noon to | p.m. 


or during Pushya constellation. 


Collect a plate made of copper, tuar dal, flowers of red 
colour, honey, raagi and silk cloths of red colour. 


104 A complete book on gems 


Spread red silk cloth with tuar dal on it. Put the plate over 
the dal. Place another red silk piece on it and spread tuar dal 
here also. Wash the coral ring, apply sandal and kumkum to it 
and tie 3, 6 or 9 pieces of red flower to the ring with a red 
thread. 


The process beginning on a Tuesday should be done 
continuously for 9 times, i.e. on Tuesday, Thursday and 
Sundays. Put on the ring on the 9th day. Use honey as 'prasad'. 
Donate masoor dal in a red cloth. 


Mantra to invoke the planet Mars: 


Dhoomaketu namaagni. samidhaa, khair, 
phal-suparimangola yantra_ dakshiney 
bhoumang sthapayami 


or 


Veera Dwajaaya Vidhmahe 
Vigna Hastaaya Dheemahi 
Tanno Bhowma Prochodayath 


Diamond: Also called Heerak, Heer, Sridoor, Pavi and 
Kulish. Diamond is the king of gems and jewals. Persons bom 
in Taurus and Libra sign have Diamond as their main gem. 
Natives bom in the month of April and those bom on the 6th, 

1Sth and 24th of any month get their happiness boosted if 
they wear Diamond. This gem is a favourite of Venus. 


Before Diamond ring or emulate is worn, pooja has got to 
be carried out on a Friday during the 'shukra Hora’, Le. 
between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. or 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. It should be 
worn when Venus is in Taurus or in Pisces. 


Before the rituals are carried out, one has to collect blue 
silk cloth in a triangular shape, one plate (also in a triangular 
shape), raj ma, sandal, kumkum, 5 different types of flowers, 
5 types of fruits, 5 types of sweets, 30 betel leaves, 5 cloth 
pieces, camphor, 5 packets of betelnuts and pieces of turmeric. 


Consecration before wearing stones 105 


Spread rajma on the triangular-shaped plate; put blue cloth; 
keep over it the ring and apply kumkum and sandal to it. 
Invoke Lakshmi mantra 108 times and thereafter Shukra 
mantra (108 times). This process has to be repeated 5 times 
with 5 types of flowers. Thereafter offer sweets and fruits 
and then put on the ring. Distribute betel leaves, turmeric 
pieces, betelnuts, flowers, fruits, sweets and cloth pieces to 
five ladies. 


Lakshmi mantra: 


Maha Devaicha Vidhmahe 
Vishnu Patnaicha Dheemahi 
Tanno Lakshmi Prachodayath 


Mantra for Venus: 


Paridhahsha balihasthha 

kamandoloo dharapradaha 
Poorvopatreyti shukrashchau praachyang 
shukrang nidhaapayet 


Yellow Sapphire (Sanskrit name Pushparaag, Gum Ratna, 
Gurpriya, Peetaman) is the gem of the divine gum Jupiter 
and bestows benefit to all and looks after the welfare of the 
wearer. It induces him to be religious. This is the gem for 
persons bom under Sagittarus and Pisces signs. For Gemini 
and Virgo-boms it ensures choiceable marriages and for Leo, 
Scorpio, Aries and Cancer-boms it imparts luck. November- 
bom persons and those bom on 3rd, 12th, 11th and 20th of 
any month, if wear it, might find it greatly beneficial. 


Before wearing the gemstone, one has to perform rituals 
on a Thursday during the Hora of guru, i.e. between 6 a.m. 
and 7 a.m. or | p.m. and 2 p.m. It is worn when Jupiter is in 
Cancer. 


To conduct the ritual one must have a yellow coloured 
cloth, some marigold flowers, as usual kumkum and sandal, 
gram and ‘‘kheer’ made of jaggery and moong dal. 


106 A complete book on gems 


Put gram over yellow cloth, apply sandal and kumkum to 
the ring and put it on dal. Take 3 flowers and recite Lalita 
sahastranama and gum ‘mantra’ 108 time. Offer prasad and 
then wear the ring and distribute gram. 


Mantra to invoke Jupiter: 


Vrishabha Dwajaaya vidhmahe 
Gurni Hasthaaya Dheemahi 
Tamo Guruh Prachodayath 


Blue Sapphire (Neelam): Its other names arc: Neelamani, 
Indraneel, Neela Ratna and Nelashma. The gemstone is a 
favourite of the planet Saturn. It is observed that Saturn has a 
very powerful influence on destiny. It turns pauper into a 
millionaire and vice-versa. Therefore it is very imperative to 
put on this stone after careful consultations with astrologers. 


It is recommended for Capricorn, Aquarius, Taurus, 
Cancer, Leo and Libra-sign persons. Persons bom on the 8th. 
17th or 26th of any month should get benefit by wearing it. 


Before putting on a ring 'puja' should be performed on a 
Saturday between 6 a.m. and 7 a,m, or! p.m. to 2 p.m. 


To conduct the ritual one has to have an iron plate, some 
black 'tils', sandal, kumkum, steel lamp, blue flowers, eight 
pieces of cloth in black colour. 


To begin with light the lamp, spread til over the plate, 
apply sandal and kumkum on the washed ring and place it on 
the plate. Recite 108 times * mantra* with blue flowers and 
offer thereafter til and black cloth to 8 persons. Then go to 
Shani temple and repeat rituals theré and then put on the ring. 


Mantra to invoke Saturn: 


Krishaadnggey Krishnavarnhashehau 
Krishnaa jinadhara sthathaa +, 
Shouramanda_ gatishaiba shanhimay ha 
yamyahamm. 


Consecration before wearing stones 107 


Cat's Eye (Lahsuniya in Hindi and Vaidurya or vidooraja 
or Vidalaksha in Sanskrit): This gemstone is a favourite of 
Cauda Dreconis (Ketu) who was a demon and whose body 
was severed by Lord Vishnu's 'chakra* and the torso is 
smeared in profuse blood. It is recommended for those bom 
on the 7th, 11 th or 25th of a month. Its lord is said to be Varun 
(Neptune). 


In order to please the planet, ‘pooja should be performed 
on a Wednesday between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. or between 8 p.m. 
and 9 p.m. 


One has lo arrange for a snake idol. a plate of brass. red 
cloth, gram, sandal, kumkum, curd and some sugar. 


Have red cloth spread over brass plate.This ritual is done 
in front of the snake idol. Purify the ring, apply sandal and 
kumkum to it and put it over the cloth. Now recite 'mantra' 
108 times. That over, offer curd and wear the ring. Offer sugar 
to the needy. 


Mantra to invoke Ketu: 


Ashwa Dwajaaya Vidhmahe, 
Shoola Hasthaaya Dheemahi, 
Tanno Ketu Prachodayath 


Heassonite (Gomeda): This gemstone is a favourite of 
Rahu. Its Sanskrit name is Gomedak, Pingasphatik or Rahu 
Rama or Tamomani. It is not supposed to have any figure. 
Heassonite is said to be the colour of Rahu. It is a very 
dangerous planet. It has no particular choice of gem or jewel 
of its own. According to one school those who are bom in 

~August have Gomeda as their stone. Some say it suits those 
who have been bom between February 15 and March 15. It is 
also recommended for those who were bom on 4th, 13 th, 22nd 
or 31 st day of any month. 


108 A complete book on gems 


The time for consecration of heassonite is during the 
constellation of Rabi Pushya or Guru Pushya or between 6 
a.m. and 7 a.m. or between | p.m. and 2 p.m. on a Wednesday. 


One has to arrange for some black urad dal, brown clothes, 
sandal, kumkum, 22 coins of same denomination, 16 flowers, 
rice (yellow in colour), ‘prasad’ made from milk and plantain 
and a snake 'murti’. 


Spread brown cloth before the idol of snake, spread dal 
on it, cover it with another piece of brown cloth. Again spread 
dal on it. Clean the ring and apply sandal and kumkum to it. 
Take one flower and tie it round the ring with a red thread. 
Place the ring over the dal. Place all 22 coins and 16 flowers 
around it. Take yellow rice and recite ‘mantra’ 108 times, 
offer prasad’. Cut the cloth into 17 pieces and on every piece 
place one part of dal. Place one coin and then tie them into 
bundles and denote them to the needy. Put the remaining 5 
coins in your own box. 


Mantra to invoke Rahu: 
Naaga Dwajaaya Vidhmahe 
Pad ma Hasthaaya Dheemahi 
Tanno Rahu Prachodayath. 


19 


Gnfluence of pfanets 


Everybody wants to know the progress of his life and his 
or her future. One way to know it is through Astrology. 


In Astrology if Mars is exalted in Capricorn it becomes 
most powerful. Same is the case if it is in Aries. 


Mars is the planet of active force, courage and energy. 
People who are dull, blunt and indolent can be greatly 
benefited by wearing Red Coral in a gold ring on anamika. 


The beneficial rays of Mars also help in the early 
settlement of marriage of one's daughter. The essential 
requirement of capturing the magical influence of Mars is to 
prepare the ring only when Mars will be in Capricorn or in 
Aries, during gochara movement. Mars acquires considerable 
strength and power when it is positioned in Capricorn (its 
exalted sign) and also in Aries. 


Its strength and power can be tapped and captured if Red 
Coral is fitted in gold, copper or silver and worn during the 
period when it will be in Capricorn or in Aries, and if the ring 
is wom on Tuesday morning. If the ring is made in this way, 
it produces a magical charm which can be used for success in 
examination, early settlement of marriage of one's daughter, 
and also for getting a new job. 


Mercury governs intellect 3nd wisdom in a person. Its 
gem is Emerald. Mercury is exalted in Virgo. If Emerald is 


110 A complete book on gems 


fitted in gold and worn during the time when Mercury is in 
Virgo it could capture and tap the magical powers of Mercury. 


Combined use of Emerald and Red Coral on madhyama 
and anamika fingers, respectively will work like magic for 
success in examination and competition. 


Venus is said to be exalted in Pisces and it also becomes 
powerful when it is in Taurus. Taurus and Pisces are the 
favourite signs of Venus. She acquires considerable strength 
and power when posited in these two signs. Her magical 
influence can be captured and tapped if her gem, the diamond. 
is fitted in a platinum ring during that time. Venus is the planet 
of pleasures. So its gem, diamond, is essential for gaining 
earthly pleasures in life. 


Jupiter is the planet of success. The beneficial rays of 
Jupiter are also necessary for acquiring earthly pleasures in 
life. Its gem is Yellow Sapphire and its metal is tin or gold. 
The essendal requirement is that Yellow Sapphire is to be 
fitted in a gold ring only during the time when Jupiter will be 
posited in Cancer. The ring then captures the magical powers 
of Jupiter. Combined use of diamond and Yellow Sapphire 
on madhyama and anamkika, respectively will work like 
magic. 


Cat's Eye has the power to give life to a closed or dead 
business. Cat's Eye is the gem for Ketu who is exalted in 
Sagittarius. If the gem is fitted in a steel or gold ring during 
the rime when Ketu will be in Sagittarius, it will capture and 
tap the magical powers of Ketu. Ketu is supposed to acquire 
considerable strength and power when it comes in Sagittarius. 
Jupiter is the planet of success and its gem is Yellow Sapphire. 
Its beneficial rays arc also essential for getting success in 
business. 


The Moon is called the mother of all human beings on 
earth. A mother naturally protects her child in every respect. 


Influence of planets ae 


Moon Stone is the gem of the Moon and this is called the life- 
saver and life-giver. 


The Moon governs the first seven years of a man's life. If 
your child wears a Moon Stone, he will be free from all diseases. 
But during winter months, the Moon Stone should be removed 
and Red Coral used. The Moon is exalted in Taurus. 


If white pearl or Moon Stone is fitted into a silver ring 
during the time when the Moon will be in Taurus, it can capture 
and tap the magical powers of the Moon most effectively. If 
you wear a white pearl fitted in silver when the Moon is well- 
aspected by Jupiter (the planet of success), you will be happy, 
cheerful and honoured by others; it will lead to safe journeys; 
wealth will increase and health wil} be good. 


Some astrologers hold the view that man cah master 
planetary forces by concentrating on their characteristic 
symbols. The influence of a planet can be magically captured 
through the use of things which are directly linked with a 
planet. For example, by using Red Coral, red cloth, red thread 
and number 9. you can tap the magical forces of Mars. Rays 
of Mars are essential to gain success in examination, for curing 
high fevers and also for early marriage in life. 


By using black cloth, black thread, black pearl and number 
8, one can tap the magical influence of Saturn. Beneficial 
rays of Saturn are essential for higher studies and research 
work as Saturn gives perfection and sophistication in every 
field of work. Without its blessing, higher studies would not 
be possible. Its gem is Blue Sapphire and this is required to 
be fitted in lead or silver and worn during the time when Saturn 
will be at Libra (its exalted sign). It will then be possible to 
capture the magical powers of Saturn most effectively. 


The other way for attracting planetary influences in an 
effective way is to wear the gem on the day and in the hour of 
the appropriate planet. 


112 A complete book on gems 


Sunday is ruled by Sun, Monday by Moon, Tuesday by 
Mars, Wednesday by Mercury, Thursday by Jupiter, Friday 
by Venus and Saturday by Saturn. 


The planet which rales the day has its sway only in the 
first hour after sun rise and the succeeding hours of day are 
ruled by the other planets in the following order: (1) Sun, 
(2) Venus, (3) Mercury, (4) Moon, (5) Saturn, (6) Jupiter and 
(7) Mars. 


It is said that good and evil forces are embedded in the 
womb of time. There is a good time to sow and a good time 
to reap. This is the main point for consideration. Otherwise 
evil influences will mar or destroy all your projects. The Moon 
thus plays a vital role in fixing auspicious times and her transits 
on auspicious places. As the Moon governs the mind and 
mental structure, her transits to malefic houses and over 
malefic planets will naturally disturb one's mind and thus 
affect projects. A waning Moon is unfavourable for starting 
any good project. Avoid doing any good work when the Moon 
is almost obscure. Nothing should be attempted when the 
Moon is in conjunction with the Sun. as that position causes 
all projects to fail. But black magicians or sorcerers prefer to 
perform tiieir activities only when the Moon is on the wane. 
Waning Moon favours their activities as they always try to do 
evil. A waxing Moon is always favourable for doing any good 
work. 


Some astrologers opine that planetary spirits can be 
summoned or planetary influences can be attracted by the use 
of ‘images’ which are real or mentally created to express the 
planet's nature. The most popular image of the Sun is drawn 
by a highly spirited man driving a chariot drawn by seven 
horses. These seven horses represent the seven prime colours 
of the solar spectrum, i.e. VIBGYOR. The image of the Moon 
is depicted by a fine young man driving a chariot drawn by 


COLORLESS ZIRCON RHODOLITE 


GROSSULAR GARNET ALMANDINE GARNET 


GREEN GROSSULAR PYROPE 


HESSONITE BIXBITE 


JEWELLERY WITH PINK AND WHITE 


RUBY AND DIAMONDS CORAL BEADS 
RING WITH BLUE, YELLOW, PINK, 

GREEN SAPPHIRE ETC SAPPHIRES 

NATURAL PEARLS PLATE IN ROCK 


CRYSTAL {16th century) 


RING WITH NECKLACE AND 
YELLOW SUPPHIRE BRACELET IN JADEITE JADE 
SAPPHIRES IN VARIOUS VASE IN LAPIS LAZULI 


SHADES OF BLUE AND GOLD (16th century} 


YELLOW TOPAZ PINK SPINEL 


BLUE SPINEL RED SPINEL 


CHRYSOBERYL ALEXANDRITE 


BLUE-GRAY ASTERIA STAR RUBY 


Influence of planets 113 


five horses. These five horses represent our five senses. 
Though the Moon is called the queen of the universe, no 
picture of her in the capacity of the queen of the universe is 
available from our ancient scripts. The image of Mercury is 
depicted by a spirited young man with four hands sitting on 
the back of a lion and so on. It is said that by concentrating 
one's attention on the popular images of the planets, one can 
capture and tap the magical influences of the planets in 
removing suffering. This can be done also by meditating on 
the images of the planets. 


No auspicious work should be undertaken when Mars is 
in the 8th house or Venus in the 6th as these positions arc 
highly injurious. This is especially effective in case of fixing 
marriage time. Mars and Rahu are too evil when in 2nd. 8th 
and 9th houses from the Moon sign during gochara movement. 
So no auspicious work should be undertaken during that period. 


People sometimes become ill or depressed due to 
overwork and this is because of the fact that ‘thought and 
study' belong to Saturn who rules the melancholy 
temperament and is antagonistic to the vital forces of life and 
youth. Overworked students, patients and elderly people 
whose vital forces are on the wane should try to lure powerful 
influences from the favourable planets-Jupiter, Venus and 
Mars. This can be done by wearing gems for them. 


To gain health and happiness, for instance, an image of 
Venus-a picture of a beautiful young girl dressed in white or 
yellow and holding flowers and apples—may be kept in one's 
bedroom. You can bring down her magical influence even by 
meditating on it every morning. But the best way to get 
planetary blessings is to meditate on the image of goddess 
Durga (Mahamaya) and to o ffe r prayers to her. Prayer is the 
greatest power available to the individual in solving his/her 
personal problems. A sincere prayer is unfailing in its effects. 


114 A complete book on gems 


It is said that actual power is generated by prayer. Prayer is 
the mightiest power in the world. 


There arc some important points which are worth noting 
with regard to the position of planets in different houses at 
one's birth-chart. 


There will be brisk activity in the affairs of the house 
occupied by Mars (the planet of activity) and probably there 
will be disagreements, disputes and loss through them. If Mars 
is posited in the 2nd house, the native may eam sufficient 
money, but at the same time he may also have to incur heavy 
losses, 


If Jupiter (the planet of expansion) is in the first house, 
you may put on weight in the years ahead and if Saturn is in 
the 6th house (sources of gain) people who owe you money 
will be reluctant to pay up. 


There will be minor changes in the affairs of the house 
occupied by the Moon, because the Moon rules over petty 
fluctuations. Suppose she is in the 4th house, native may not 
change his residence too frequendy and moreover there is 
every possibility that he may acquire a new house of his own. 


Good aspects to the Moon-the ruler of women-will 
improve your relations with women. Adverse aspects to 
Mercury in your horoscope, may cause you to be 
absentminded, make clerical mistakes, give people the wrong 
change or say the wrong things. 


A planet is said to possess maximum power when it comes 
in the ascendant or 1 Oth house during transit. In order to attract 
and summon greater magical influence of the planets, rings 
should be made during that time. 


The Sun 


Sun is the parent of the solar system. So it represents the 
father. The Sun and Moon are considered sovereigns. The 


116 A complete book on gems 


and receptive. The Moon governs over impregnation, 
conception, birth of child, the animal instinct, the union and 
the embryo. It also rules the infant stage of a person and has 
powerful influence on lives. Afflicted Moon at the time of birth 
causes ailments frequently and does not allow for proper growth. 
Stomach will be upset and frequent vomiting reduces vitality. 


Diseases given by an afflicted Moon are eye diseases, 
lunacy, paralysis, hysteria, epilepsy. beriberi, cold, cough, colic 
pains, worms, intestinal disorders, tumors, peritonia, throat 
troubles, asthma, bronchitis, varicose loins, complications due 
to excess of drinks, dyspepsia, dysentery, nervous debility, 
cancer and typhoid. It also causes cold and fever, indecision, 
lack of mental balance, a desire to lie and spread false rumours 
and suffering from anxiety. If Mars afflicts the Moon, the 
native becomes impulsive, rash and reckless. He also becomes 
of a loose moral character. Affliction by Saturn causes 
depression, despondency, pessimism and lack of 
concentration. : 


White Pear] is the gemstone to be used for protection from 
the consequences of the affliction of the Moon or its ill 
placement and weakness in a birth chart. Pearl is every useful 
for mental and lung disorders. 


Mars 


Mars has much to do with one's ambition and desires. An 
unaffected Mars bestows one with quick mental activity and 
extraordinary muscular strength, great organizing ability. 
power for practical execution, independent spirit, force of 
character, strong determination, ambition to come out 
successful in the material field and leadership in all pursuits. 
If Mars is afflicted the native becomes reckless, lavish, 
extravagant, criminal. thief. pervert in sexual life and fanatic 
in religion or philosophy. 


Influence of planets 17 


Diseases from which one suffers on account of Mars 
becoming evil by lordship, occupation or by affliction by a 
malefic, may be acute fevers, plague, small pox, chicken pox, 
measles, inflammatory complaints, burns, rapture of 
capillaries, fistula, wounds, cuts, brain fever, haemorrhage, 
typhoid, ulcer in intestines, hernia, erysipelas, malaria, 
abortions, bleeding, boils, carbuncles, appendicitis, muscular 
rheumatism, septic poisoning, tetanus, etc. 


Red Coral is the gem stone to be used to enhance the good 
characteristics and qualities of Mars in the native and to protect 
him from the evil consequences from the afflicted Mars. 


But the gem stone for Mars (or any planet) should not be 
used when it is the lord of the 6th, 8th or 12th house and does 
not own simultaneously an angular (central) or triangular 
(triton) house or is in his own sign in the 6th, 8th or the 12th 
house. This principle will apply for use of gemstones for all 
planets and should be carefully kept in mind. 


Mercury 


Mercury is a variable, convertible, vacillating and dualistic 
planet. Mercury rules over the solar plexus and the central 
nervous system. He gives the native intelligence, capacity to 
analyse, retentive power and reproductive ability. He gives 
curiosity to master occult sciences, but he is not steady enough 
to complete a project. Mercury, when afflicted, makes the 
person phrenetic. Also, an afflicted Mercury makes the native 
a cheat, liar and gambler. An afflicted Mercury becomes the 
cause of the following diseases: vertigo, lethargy, giddiness 
in the head, madness, brain troubles, tuberculosis, stammering, 
defects of memory, dry coughs, abundance of spittle, gout of 
hand and feet, leprosy, cancer, diseases of stomach and skin, 
etc. The native will become perverted, eccentric, unprincipled, 
inconstant and boastful. Mercury in dignity makes the native 
proficient in mathematics, engineering, accounts, corres- 


118 A complete book on gems 


pondence, etc. Ifhe will take up things seriously, he will 
achieve success in all his enterprises. 


The gemstone to neutralise the evil effects of Mercury 
and to enhance good qualities is Emerald. 


Jupiter 


Jupiter is the significator of children, wealth, government 
or king's favours and the grace of God (Dhanakaraka, 
Santanakaraka, Rajya-kripakaraka and Deva-kripakaraka). 
Jupiter is also significator of husband in a woman's horoscope. 


If Jupiter is a functional as well as a natural benefic in a 
birth chart, is dignified, is without any affliction and occupies 
the first, fifth or the ninth house or a Kendra, the life of native 
will be full of happiness and he will be blessed with children, 
wealth, name, fame, success and honour. 


Jupiter is a fiery, noble, benevolent, fruitful, jovial, 
buoyant, optimistic, expansive, positive and dignified planet. 


The higher attributes of the mind and the uplift of soul 
are governed by Jupiter. 


Jupiter rules over liver, tumours, circulation of blood in 
the arteries and fat in the body. 


If Jupiter is afflicted, the native will not be a moderate 
but an extremist. He will be overgenerous, extravagant and 
even lavish. 


Over-optimism, false hopes, carelessness, debts, dispute, 
failure in speculation, gambling and pressure from creditors, 
worry through children, childlessness, vanity, default and 
infamy, gluttony and unusual girth, are also the results of an 
afflicted and badly placed Jupiter. 


The diseases that may be caused by afflicted are liver 
complaints, dropsy, jaundice, flatulence, dyspepsia, abcess, 


Influence of planets 119 


disorders of pancreas, skin troubles, cerebral congestion, 
catarrh and carbuncles. 


The gem stone to be used to protect from the ill effects of 
an afflicted and inauspiciously placed Jupiter, and to enhance 
the beneficial influences of a well placed Jupiter in the birth 
chart is Yellow Sapphire. 


Venus 


According to Indian astrology Venus governs the gentle 
and refined attributes. Strong Venus in a chart is a testimony 
that native wilt have attraction to the other sex early in his 
life. Venus can bestow on one all comforts enabling one to 
lead a pleasant life in this world. Venus is significator for 
wife and conjugal life in a man's horoscope. 


If Venus is afflicted the marriage may be delayed or the 
married life may be disturbed. 


Venus governs eyes, generative system, throat, chin, 
cheeks, kidneys, etc. 


Venus is also, after Jupiter, a wealth-giving planet. As 
already stated above, a dignified and unafflicted Venus brings 
wealth and all kinds of comforts to the native. 


The diseases caused by an afflicted and inauspiciously 
placed Venus are: diseases of ovaries, that of the eyes, 
irregularity in the catamenia, mucous diseases, Bright's 
disease, cysts, swelling, gout, anaemia, and other 
complications due to over-indulgence in sex, amusements, 
drinking, eating and venereal diseases. . 


The gemstone to be used to neutralise its evil effects of 
an afflicted and inauspiciously placed Venus in a birth chart 
is Diamond. 


Saturn 


Saturn is a barren, dry, binding, cold, constant, defensive, 
hard, nervous and secretive planet. 


120 A complete hook on gems 


Saturn can cause delay, it can deny, it will disappoint. 
Disharmony, dispute, difficulty, despondency, dejection and 
differences are the outcomes of an evil Saturn. 


Plodding, persevering, patiently working, prudence, 
frugality, economy, saving, endurance, industry, thrift, power 
to keep secrets, stability, self control, sense of duty, etc. are 
attributed to a beneficial Saturn. Lazy, lethargic, idle persons 
are born under the influence ofa malefic Saturn. 


Diseases caused by Saturn arc impediments of the troubles 
of the teeth, right ear, fevers and pains caused by cold, leprosy, 
consumption, black jaundice, gout, deafness, insanity, 
stammering, dumbness, colic, paralysis, depression, diseases 
caused by anxiety. The gemstone for Saturn is Blue Sapphire. 


Rahu 


Rahu causes cholera, rheumatism, dyscntry, nasty diseases 
of mind and body and causes a tendency to commit suicide. 
Gomedh is the gem stone for Rahu; it can prevents its evil 
effects. 


Ketu 


Ketu causes diseases of the skin, pimples, colic pains, 
dropsy, abscesses, paralysis, ring worm, small pox and 
accidents. 


Persons who have no birth charts or birth date can select 
gemstones for themselves on the basis of significations of the 
planets and thus they can save themselves from the evil effects 
of these planets. The gem stone for Ketu is Cat's Eye. 


Moon's position 
If Moon is afflicted by Saturn or Rahu in a birth-chart, 
life becomes hell. 


The constellation in which the Moon is posited at your 
birth-chart is known as your birth-star. This birth-star plays 
an important role in shaping your fate and destiny. The birth- 


Influence of planets 121 


star gives diseases according to its nature. Everyone will not 
suffer from the same diseases. It varies according to one's 
birth-star. One may be very prone to stomach troubles and 
the other to heart troubles. Nature of diseases. one will be 
liable to suffer, can be easily determined from his birth-star. 
It is possible for you to identifythe diseases you are liable to 
suffer all through your life from the nature of your birth-star. 
The number given just below the Moon in your birth-chart is 
the number of your birth-star. There are 27 such stars. They 
are; 


Aswint-] Swati-15 

Bharani-2 Vishakam-16 
Kartikai-3 Anuradha-17 
Rohini-4 Jestha-18 
Mrigasira-5 Moolam-19 

Adra-6 Poorvashada-20 
Punarvasu-7 Uttarshada-2] 
Pushyam-8 Sravana-22 
Aslesha-9 Dhanistha-23 
Makam-10 Satavisha-24 
Poorvaphalguni-1 1 Poorvabhadrapada-25 
Uttarphalguni-12 Uttarbhadrapada-26 
Hastam-13 Rebathi-27 
Chitra-14 


The nature of the Moon is such that she will protect you 
all through life if you strengthen her hands by wearing gems 
for her. That is why the Moon Stone is called a life-saver and 
life-giver. It is said that the Moon governs the first seven years 
of a man's life. This means that the Moon controls all children 
and her strong influence during childhood can be easily felt. 
The Moon, if heavily afflicted by Saturn or Rahu in the 6th or 
8th house, may cause the death of the child. Ifone is bom 
during the eclipse of the Moon, there is hardly any chance for 
his survival. 


122 


A complete book on gems 


According to Indian Astrology each planet governs three 


stars: 


Ruler 
Sun - 


Moon - 
Mars : 


Mercury - 
Jupiter - 


Venus - 


Saturn é 


Rahu 7 
Ketu - 


Stars 
Kartikai-3, Uttarsnada-21, Uttar- 
phalguni-12. 
Rohini-4, Hastam-13, Srabana-22. 
Mrigasira-5, Chitra-14, 
Dhanistha-23. 
Aslesha-9, Jestha-18, Rebathi-27. 
Punarvasu-7, Vishakam-16, 


. Purvabhadrapada-25. 


Bharani-2, Purvaphalguni-11, 
Purvashada-20. 

Pushyam-8, Anuradha-1!7, 
Uttarbhadrrapada-26. 

Adra-6, Swati-15, Satavisha-24. 
Magham-!0, Moolam-19, 
Aswini-l. 


It is said by our ancient saints that if one strengthens the 
arms ofthe ruling planet of birth-star, one will be free from 
all diseases and will possess sound health and happiness in 
life. The best way to strengthen its arms is to wear gems for 
the ruling planet of your birth-star. This is considered best for 
gaining health and happiness in life. 


Usually three stars occupy each sign of the zodiac: 


Aries = 
Taurus > 
Gemini ts 
Cancer - 


Aswini-1, Bharani-2, Kartikai-3. 
Kartikai-3, Rohini-4, Mrigasira-5. 
Mnrigasira-5, Adra-6, 
Punarvasu-7. 


Punarvasu-7, Pushyam-8, 
Aslesha-9. 


Influence of planets 


Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 


Pisces 


123 

Magham-10, Purbaphalguni-11, 
Uttarphalguni-12. 
Uttarphalguni-12, Hastam-13, 
Chitra-14. 

Chitra-14, Swati-15, 
Vishakam-16. 
Vishakam-16, Anuradha-17, Jestha- 

18. 
Moolam-19, Purvashada-20, 
Uttarshada-21. 
Uttarshada-21, Sravana-22, 
Dhanistha-23. 

Dhanistha-23, Sathavisha-24, 
Poorvabhadrapada-25. 


Poorvabhadrapada-25, 
Uttarbhadrapada-26, Revathi-27. 


The birth-star, therefore, plays an important part in one's 
life. From it, it can be ascertained in which position of planet 


one was bom. 


The period of dasas are as follows: 


Sun-6 yrs; 
Moon-—10 yrs; 
Mars-7 yrs; 
Rahu-18 yrs. 
Jupiter—16 yrs. 
Satum—19 yrs. 


Mercury—17 yrs. 


Ketu-7 yrs. 
Venus-20 yrs. 


Nature of stars 


(1) Aswini (Ruler-Ketu) Aries—O° to 13-12'. Diseases 
to be suffered all through life: 


124 A complete book on gems 


Injury in the head, confusion in (he brain, dizziness, 
thrombosis, nose-bleeding, fainting, epilepsy, neuralgia, 
insomnia, meningitis, intestinal and stomach troubles. 

First son will be sickly or even may die, avaricious, 
extravagant, dispute with brothers, fond of ornaments, two 
wives, service in factory of government departments. 

(2) Bharani (Ruler-Venus) Aries—13-20° to 25-40’. 


Brain-troubles, headache. meningitis, insomnia, high 
fevers. 

Aspiring, amorous, fond of sports, amusements, show, 
display, judge, lawyer. 

(3) Kartikai (Ruler-Sun) Arics-24-40' to 30' Taurus- 
0' to 10’. 

Fevers, meningitis, throat-troubles, nose-bleeding, 
quinsey, gout, pimples, brain-troubles. 

Good and robust health, energetic, argumentative ability, 
popular and prosperous, attraction to others’ wives, loss of 
3rd child. 

(4) Rohini (Ruler-Moon) Taurus—!0° to 23-20". 


Sore-throat, cough and cold, eye-troubles, ailments of legs 
and feet, apoplexy, menstrual trouble. 

Good nature, pleasant manners, fond of music, art and 
literature, enjoys the company of opposite sex, sweet-tongued, 
flamboyant, many sons. 

(5) Mrigasira (Ruler-Mars) Taurus-23-20' to 30' and 
Gcmini-0' to 6-40". 


Throat-troubles, fevers, adenoids, nose-bleeding. goitre, 
polypus, arms fracture, disorders of secret pans, gout. 


Unhappy conjugal life, quick-witted, fluent, danger of 
accidents, magnetic, industrious and wealthy. 


(6) Adra (Ruler-Rahu) Gemini-—6-40’ to 20'. 


Influence of planets 125 


Throat troubles, mumps, ear-troubles, red eyes, urinary 
troubles, gout. 

Active, fond of company of others’ wives, sweet tongued, 
danger of accidents. 

(7) Punarvasu (Ruler-Jupiter) Gemini-20' to 30'. 
Cancer 0! to 3-2'. 

Bronchitis, dropsy, stomach-troubles, dyspepsia, lung- 
troubles, headache, pains in the body and eye troubles. 

Sharp intellect, honest, good memory. sincere, reliable 
devagana, fond of business, afraid of girls. 

(8) Pushyam (Ruler-Saturn) Cancer—3-20° to 16-40'. 

Consumption, gastric ulcer, respirator}' troubles, gall- 
stones, obstruction in the bowels, eczema, jaundice, 
pyorrhoea. 

Prudent, sober, economical, careful, attentive, troubles 
through children. 

(9) Astesha (Ruler-Mercury) Cancer-—16-40' to 30'. 

Stomach, diseases of legs and knees, hysteria, dropsy, 
jaundice, neurosis. 

Harsh speech, versatile, witty, can imitate others, 
rakhasgana, finding fault with others, jealous, clever. 

(10) Makam (Ruler-Ketu) Leo—0’ to 13-20’. 

Heart troubles, gravel in kidneys, backache, fainting, 
spinal meningitis. 

Defensive, forceful, proud, unhappy conjugal life. 

(11) Poorvaphalguni (Ruler-Venus) Leo—] 3-20" to 26. 

Heart troubles, diseases of legs and ankles, blood-pressure, 
gout, sciatica, operation, lumbago. 


Generous, cautious. honest, fond of sweets. over-sexy, 
fond of company of others’ wives. fond of eating. 


126 A complete book on gems 
(12) Uttarphalguni (Ruler-Sun) Virgo—0’ to 10'. 
Intestinal and bowel disorders, sore-throat, gout. 

First child-daughter, tactful, mother longlived, separation 
from children in old age, more than one wife, loss of money 
through women. 

(13) Hastam (Ruler-Moon) Virgo-10’ to 23-20". 

Stomach troubles, Vit-B deficiency, eye-troubles, gout, 
worms, dysentery, neuralgia, jaundice, skin-troubles. 

Loss of third child, astrologer, magician, industrious, 
prudent, thievish. 

(14) Chitra (Ruler-Mars) Virgo-23-20' to 30'. 

Bowel disorders, fevers, worms, wounds from animals, 
skin troubles. 

Bold and courageous, troubles through first son, 
quarrelsome. 

(15) Swati (Ruter-Rahu) Libra-6-40' to 20’. 

Urinary troubles, eczema, skin troubles, leprosy, tooth- 
ache. 

Loose temper, extravagant, fond of luxuries, troubles 
tiirough children, clever in speech. 

(16) Visakam (Ruler-Jupiter) Libra-20' to 30'. 

Skin eruption, renal abscess, diabetes, kidney trouble, 
headache, fevers. 


Ungrateful, talented, laith in God, broad-minded, short- 
tempered, troubles in getting higher education, loss of first 
wife. 

(17) Anuradha (Ruler-Saturn) Scorpio—3-20' to 16-44". 


Menstrual troubles with severe pain and poor bleeding, 
constipation, piles, nasal-catarrh, sore throat, hip-bone 
fracture, stomach troubles. 


Influence of planets \YT 


Fond of travel, grave, cruel, vindictive, dishonest, troubles 
through children. 


(18) Jyestha (Ruler-Mercury) Scorpio—16-40° to 30°. 


Bleeding piles, Leucorrhoea, fistula, bowel disorders, pain 
in arms and shoulders. 


Bold, ingenius; witty, poisonous tongue, will not have 
many friends, energetic. 


(19) Moolam (Ruler-Ketu) Sagittarius—0’ to 13-20. 


Rheumatism sciatica, lumbago, hip diseases, pulmonary 
troubles. 


Noble, honest and God-fearing. 

(20) roorvashada (Ruler-Venus) Sagittarius—13-20° to 
26-40'. 

Diabetes, sciatica, gout. lung-disorders, lumbago, hip-knee 
disorders. 

Over-liberal and broad-minded, optimistic. 

(21) Uttarshada (Ruler-Sun) Sagittarius—26-40' to 30°. 


Eye-troubles, disorders of limbs, consumption, gout, 
toothache. 


Religious-minded, few sons, many daughters, fond of 
travel, cheerful. 


(22) Sravana (Ruler-Moon) Capricorn—10° to 23-20". 

Skin troubles, gout, stomach troubles, heart troubles, 
consumption. 

Fond of astrology, God-fearing, sweet-natured. 

(23) Dhanistha (Ruler-Mars) Capricorn—23-20' lo 30' 
Aquarius-0' to 6-40". 

Diseases of leg-bones, cough and cold, heart troubles, 
fainting, respiratory diseases, indigestion. 


Quarrelsome, short-tempered, sincere, important, unhappy 
conjugal life, sexually weak, separation from wife. 


128 A complete book on gems 


(24) Satabhisha (Ruler-Rahu) Aquarius—6-40’ to 20’. 

Heart-trouble, gout, arthritis, high-blood pressure, fracture 
of hip bones, palpitation, eye-troubles. 

Lazy, fond of leisure, cruel, angry, sickly wife, troubles in 
old age. 

(25) Poorvabhadrapada (Ruler-Jupiter) Aquarius—20’ 
to 30’ Pisces 0. 3-20". 

Diseases of private parts, cye-troubles, small-pox, heart 
troubles, low blood pressure, dropsy. 

Short-tempered, honest and sincere. 

(26) Uttarbhadrapada (Ruler-Saturn) Pisces-3-20' to 
16-40'. 

Toothache, fevers, small-pox, rhcumatism, stomach 
disorders, consumption, dropsy. 

Troubles through children, sickly wife, desire to help the 
poor and invalid. 

(27) Rehathi (Ruler-Mercury) Pisces—16-40’ to 30’. 

Stomach disorders, gout, cramps. deafness, ear-diseases, 
dysentery, tooth-troubles, feet-disorders. 

Clever. licentious, religious. 

Evil houses 

The house 61h, 8th, !2th are called evil houses or 
dusthanas. 

Planets posited therein are weakened and lose 
their power and strength considerably. 

Venus in the 6th and 8th becomes too weak and 
makes the native also feeble and weak. Ifthe native 
does not wear white coral he can't proceed. 

The Moon in the 6th and 8th becomes dangerously 
evil. Ifyou do not wear white pearl, you can't move. 


Mercury also becomes too weak when posited in 
6th, 8th, 12th house and requires to be strengthened. 


Influence of planets 129 


Similarly, Mars and Rahu in 2nd, 8th, 9th houses cause 
too many troubles in life. The Sun or Ketu in Sth, 7th, 8th 
houses causes anxiety. Benefics in the 3rd and 6th also give 
tremendous trouble. 

To seck protection from such evil results one has to wear 
gems to acquire sound health and happiness in life. 


20 


0) herapeutic use of gems 


The negative impact of cosmic rays of cach planet affect 
lives on earth adversely. If some planets are placed at the birth 
time in horoscope negatively, they produce adverse effect. 
By wearing gemstones belonging to those planets the malefic 
rays coining from those planets get filtered and thus their effect 
is nullified. 


We discuss below some important diseases and the gems 
to cure them: 


Acidosis 


It is a condition of over-aeidity resulting from abnormal 
and excessive production of acid in the body, often 
accompanied by poor elimination. The most common 
symptoms of this ailment are rapid breathing, headache, 
debility and a characteristic sweetish odour to the breath. This 
condition occurs in advanced diabetes or prolonged diarrhoea, 
in which the body loses sodium bicarbonate. Patients with 
severe acidosis may gasp for breath, go into a coma and even 
die. This is because the carbon dioxide eontent of the blood 
regulates the breathing process. When Jupiter is afflicted at 
birth-chart by Saturn, Ketu or Venus or the Moon at Cancer 
or Virgo, this disease appears. Jupiter is the main planet as it 
controls the liver. 


Wear Emerald ring in 5 rattis on middle finger and Yellow 
Sapphire in 5 rattis on ring finger. 


Therapeutic use of, gems 131 


Moon Stone in 6 rattis on small finger may be used as 
additional gem in acute cases. 


Accidents 


Combination of Rahu and Mars in the ascendant or 2nd 
house causes frequent accidents and injuries. Saturn on 
ascendant causes injuries through falls. Mars on the ascendant 
causes cuts and injuries to the head and bloodshed. Mars 
afflicting the luminaries by square or opposition is a sure sign 
of danger of accidents. 


Mars or Saturn in the 3rd house causes accidents by rail 
or road or during short travels and if it is in the 51h house, at 
pleasure parties. Red Coral or white Pearl has the power to 
avert accidents. 


Acne 


This is a skin disorder. Eruption of pimples is known as 
Acne. Seborrhea affects the nose, checks, forehead, chin and 
sometimes even eye. Older people are common victims of 
this disease. It appears when Venus or Ketu is heavily afflicted 
in Aries, Libra or Capricorn. Use white Coral in 7 to 9 rattis 
on mahyama along with Lapis Lazuli in 2 rattis on kanistha. 


Allergy 


Certain foods which produce excessive heat in the system, 
produce allergy if taken by those who have Mars in any one 
of the houses mentioned above. The best remedy for this type 
of disease is to use cold stones like lime Moonstone, Yellow 
Sapphire, Blue Sapphire and Emerald to make the body cool. 
The parts of the body in which allergic reactions most often 
show up are the skin, bronchial tree, nose and digestive system. 
Common allergic disorders arc hives (urticaria), eczema, hay 
fever, drug rashes, bronchial asthma and headache. Some 
allergies arc apparently hereditary and others are acquired. 
Even minute quantities of an allergen can set off a violent 
reaction. 


132 A complete book on gems 


The way to prevent allergy is to identify the offending 
allergen and avoid it. 


Ague 


This is commonly associated with the chills and fever 
sensations produced by malaria. Metallic fumes and poisons 
also can produce similar symptoms. 


Mars is responsible for producing this trouble. Abscnce 
of red rays in the body causes this disease. Use Red Coral in 
7 to 9 rattis on anamika of the right hand or a copper ring, red 
thread or red cloth around the right hand. 


Amcnorrhoca 


It means stoppage of menstruation or a missed period. 
This may be due to pregnancy or disease and especially due 
to hormone imbalance. Excessive fatigue and worry can also 
cause temporary amenorrhoea. It is caused by Saturn as his 
nature is to obstruct and to contract everything in the body. 
The nature of Mars is to clear away all bodily filth and waste 
products, etc. Use Red Coral or copper ring, red cloth or thread 
on the left hand. ; 


Adenoids 


Enlargement of the lymphoid tissue in the throat and back 
of the nose is a condition known as adenoids. Children often 
have enlarged adenoids which may block the nasal 
passageways causing mouth breathing and encouraging colds, 
sinus infection and ear infections. Mars during transit while 
passing through Taurus, Scorpio or Libra may cause this 
disease. It is purely a Mars disease. Use Red Coral in 5 rattis 
on anamika. 


Amnesia 


It means a partial or total loss of memory’ and forgetfulness 
of past experience. It is attended by an inability to remember 


Therapeutic use of gems 133 


words. Morbid changes in brain tissues are usually responsible 
for this condition. The most common cause is when the Sun 
is afflicted by Mercury in Aries or when Mercury is afflicted 
by the Sun in Aries. Use Red Coral in 7 to 9 rattis and Emerald 
in 6 rattis, jointly. 


Anemia 


When there is sharp reduction in the number of red 
corpuscles or of red colouring matter in the blood, the 
condition is commonly known as anemia. It is usually caused 
by loss of blood through haemorrhage or due to disease or 
damage in the bonemarrow. When the Sun is afflicted by 
Satur, this condition appears. Also when Rahu or Ketu is in 
Taurus, Leo or Aquarius, or when Jupiter is afflicted by Mars 
in Leo, anemia appears. Use Red Coral in 7 to 9 rattis and 
Yellow Sapphire in 5 rattis. 


Apoplexy 


The rupture of a blood-vessel in the brain is commonly 
known as apoplexy or stroke. It is also known as cerebral 
haemorrhage or cerebro-vascular accident It is usually marked 
by unconsciousness followed by paralysis. The Sun ill- 
aspected by Jupiter or Rahu in Aries gives rise to apoplexy. 
The sign Aries is of the head and brain. So any affliction of 
this sign causes apoplexy. When Jupiter is afflicted by malefics 
in Aries, Taurus, Scorpio, Aquarius or Leo. this disease 
manifests itself. Use Red Coral in 7 to 9 rattis and Yellow 
Sapphire in 5 rattis. 


Appendicitis 


It is the swelling or inflammation of the wormshaped 
appendix, a small finger like projection from the large bowel. 
It indicates severe pain in the belly. The basic treatment for 
appendicitis is surgery, i.e. removal of the diseased appendix. 
Mars is the chief causative planet for appendicitis. Mars, if 


134 A complete book on gems 


afflicted by Saturn or Rahu in Virgo or scorpio, may give rise 
to this disease. Use Red Coral and Yellow Sapphire. 


Arthritis 


It is caused through inflammation of the joints with severe 
pain. It is metabolic disease in which the body fails to get rid 
of uric acid. Astrologically, the planet Saturn is the chief 
malefic agent in the development of arthritis, especially when 
he is posited in the 6th house and is ill-aspected by Mars. 


The 10th house of the zodiac, i.e. Capricorn rules over 
the knee-joints. Rahu or Saturn here causes deformities and 
cramps in knees and arthritis. The 9th house of the zodiac, 
ie. Sagittarius governs the hips and thighs. Saturn or Rahu 
causes gout, rheumatism, sciatica, etc. Mercury here causes 
the same trouble. Use Red Coral in 9 rattis and Yellow 
Sapphire in 5 rattis. 


Asthma 


It is a very serious disease. The bronchial tubes are 
narrowed by spasmodic contractions and they secrete an 
excess of mucous which makes breathing difficult. The patient 
wheezes and coughs. 


Saturn is the chief planet which causes this trouble. Saturn 
is responsible for all sorts of chronic and lingering diseases. 
When Saturn afflicts the 4th house from the ascendant of Leo, 
the person becomes liable for asthmatic complaints. The Moon 
in Gemini or Leo at birth-chart gives asthmatic complaints. It 
is practically an incurable disease. It is a hereditary disease. 
Mercury also plays an important part here as he governs the 
brain-nerves. Use Emerald in 6 rattis, Yellow Sapphire in 5 
rattis. Moonstone in 6 rattis may be used as an additional 
gem in acute cases. 


Backache 


It is one of the most common complaints. Its causes are 
very difficult to identify. It is also caused by deep-seated 


Therapeutic use of gems 135 


mental stress. Standing or sitting in a peculiar position all 
day at work is one of the common causes of backache. 


Straining the back by sudden twisting, jerking, lifting of 
heavy weights, etc also may bring about backache. Saturn 
gives all sorts of pain, sorrow and misery. The sign Libra rules 
over our back. So any affliction of this sign by any malefics 
may give rise to this disease. Use Red Coral in 9 rattis and 
Yellow Sapphire. 


Baldness 


It usually refers to loss of hair or absence of hair on the 
head. It is practically an incurable disease. No hair tonic or 
treatments can restore hair on the head. Baldness is hereditary. 
Saturn is the chief planet which controls the growth of hair. It 
is true that gems also cannot restore hair on the head. It is 
said that Emerald has the power to give life to hair-roots. 
Combined use of Blue Sapphire and Emerald may be found 
to be very useful. 


Biliousness 


It is a condition of general discomfort, popularly attributed 
to an excess of bile in the system. It is a kind of liver trouble. 
Jupiter controls the liver; Mercury governs abdominal nerves. 
Mars in Cancer catises biliousness. The Moon in Virgo 
afflicted by Saturn gives this trouble. Use Blue Sapphire and 
Emerald or Moon Stone and white Coral. 


Bladder trouble 


The bladder is a collapsible balloon like sac composed of 
smooth muscle and lined with a smooth membrane. It is the 
reservoir for urine. 


It is situated in the front part of the pelvic cavity. Bladder 
trouble is usually indicated by difficulties or abnormalities in 
passing urine. Excessive urine output may be taken as an 


136 A complete book on gems 


indication of diabetes. Scantly urination or suppression of 
urine may cause serious kidney trouble. Painful urination may 
indicate stones in the bladder, or enlargement of the prostate 
gland. Too frequent urination may be the result of mental 
anxiety. Urine should flow easily, regularly and painlessly. In 
case of any abnormalities, expert medical opinion may be 
sought. The signs Libra and Scorpio rule over urinary system. 
Mars in Scorpio afflicted by any malefics may give rise to 
bladder trouble. Malefics in the 7th or 8th house may also 
give rise to this disease. Red Coral in 9 rattis and Yellow 
Sapphire in 5 rattis or white Coral in 9 rattis and Moon Stone 
should be used. 


Bleeding wounds 


Any haemorrhage is bleeding. It is caused by cuts, wounds 
and accidents. Bleeding from any body opening-mouth, nose, 
lungs, nipples, anus, ears is a danger signal, and demands 
prompt medical attention. Mars is responsible for all sorts of 
bleeding, cuts, wounds and accidents. Use Red Coral. 


Blindness 


It may be temporary or permanent. The causes are 
infections and degenerative diseases of the eye and accidents 
to the eye. The 2nd and 12th houses from the ascendant govern 
the right and left eyes, respectively. The Sun controls the right 
eye and the Moon the left eye. Any affliction to these two 
planets by Saturn in the 2nd or 12th house may give rise to 
eye trouble. The signs Taurus and Pisces also rule over the 
right and left eye, respectively. Although this is practically 
incurable, still use Ruby and white Pearl. 


Boils 


A simple boil has a single core and may be no more than 
a pimple. More serious is a mass of boils, close together and 
with several cores called a carbuncle. People with diabetes 


Ther ape utic use of gems 137 


and kidney trouble are especially subject to repeated attacks 
of boils. Bad blood does not cause them. Boils are more or 
less painful. Boils should not be indiscriminately pinched or 
squeezed-specially those on the face or in the ear. It is caused 
by excessive heat in the body. Mars is the chief planet which 
causes this trouble. Mars during transit when passing through 
fiery signs may cause this trouble. Use Moonstone in 6 rattis 
or Lapis Lazuli in 4 rattis. 


Bone diseases 


Inflammation of the bone is known as osteomyelitis. It 
commonly affects the hip bone and shin bone. It is a childhood 
disease. It is usually accompanied by high fever, severe pain, 
swelling of the limb and delirium. Use Ruby for this. 


Brain fever 


It is a fever in which the meninges are mainly attacked. It 
is caused by inflammation of the meningeal membranes that 
envelop the brain and spinal cord. The early symptoms include 
headache, fever, vomiting and delirium. Later symptoms are 
severe headache, muscle rigidity, stiff neck and arched neck. 
It is caused by a germ which is transmitted by droplet infection 
from the nose and throat of patients. The Sun and Mars rule 
over the head and brain and the sign Aries governs our brain. 
So the planets Sun and Mars are responsible for this disease. 
The Moon comes into the picture when vomiting arises. Any 
affliction to these three planets in Aries or in the evil houses 
6, 8, 12th may give rise to meningitis. Jupiter in Aries gives 
dizziness, swoons and congestion of the brain. Ketu in Leo 
gives spinal meningitis and thrombosis. Rahu in Aries causes 
shooting pains in the head, inflammation of the covering and 
membranes of the brain and paralysis of the facial nerves. 
Ketu in Aries causes brain troubles and delusions. Saturn in 
Aries also causes brain disorders and cerebral troubles. Mars 
in Aries, if heavily afflicted, gives brain-fever, rupture of blood 


138 A complete book on gems 


vessels in the brain cerebral congestion and inflammation of 
the eyes. Mercury in Aries, if heavily afflicted, gives 
headaches, insomnia and nervous affections of the head and 
brain. Use Red Coral, Yellow Sapphire and Emerald, or 
Emerald, Ruby and Yellow Sapphire. 


Brain tumours 


Brain tumour is the growth of new and unwanted tissue 
in the brain. The common symptoms are headache, dizziness, 
uncontrolled vomiting, etc. As the tumour enlarges, it tends 
to build up pressure inside the skull which causes blindness, 
insanity, loss of functions of other parts of the body and senses. 
The sign Aries governs our brain. Mercury plays an important 
part here as it rules over our brain nerves. Any affliction of 
Mercury will cause disturbance in the brain. Venus governs 
the glands and Venus in Aries gives brain-tumours. Mars in 
Aries, if heavily afflicted, gives brain tumours but when it is 
in Libra or Scorpio, boils, tumours and abscesses appear in 
the lower part of the body. Similar is the case with Sun. Rahu 
in Aries gives shooting pains in the head; Saturn or Ketu in 
Aries also produces brain troubles. Use Emerald, Yellow 
Sapphire and Red Coral. 


Bronchitis 


It is a kind of lung disease which is caused by the 
inflammation of bronchial tubes. It may result from breathing 
in irritating gases, fumes or dust "and from exposure to cold. 
It generally occurs during the winter months or during a change 
of season. A thick purulent fluid is often raised from the lungs 
by coughing. 


Sometimes dry coughs may also occur. Young children 
run the greatest risk of bronchitis. Acute bronchitis usually 
begins with frequent bouts of coughing, more severe at night 
that bring in chest pains. Other symptoms are fever and 
difficult breathing. It is purely a Mars disease. Mars or the 


Therapeutic use of gems 139 


Sun during transit or gochara movement when coming into 
Gemini, Leo or Aquarius, if afflicted by Saturn or Rahu, causes 
bronchitis. Use Red Coral in 7 to 9 rattis on anamika or tarjani. 
Side by side, medicines should be taken as gems are used 
only as a second line of defence against any disease. 


Burns 


It may result from the application of too much heat or fire 
to the skin. Scalds are caused by hot liquids or vapours. Any 
extensive burns covering a large area are serious. Shock and 
infection dangerously accompany large or deep burns. Mars 
is the chief planet for causing all sorts of wounds, cuts and 
accidents, when heavily afflicted by Saturn or Rahu in the 
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 8th houses. The combination of Mars and Rahu 
in the 3rd house causes burns or accidents while travelling, in 
the 5th house in cinema or pleasure parties, in the 4th at home, 
and in the 9th while proceeding on a long journey. Wearing 
of Red Coral in 9 rattis helps quick healing. Red cloth or a 
red thread may also be used for speedy recovery. 


Cancer 


Actually cancer is characterised by the abnormal, 
uncontrolled and lawless growth of body cells. 


There are many planetary combinations which cause 
cancer in the human body. If the moon is afflicted by the three 
malefics in any sign, the native may be attacked with cancer. 

e' if evil relationship exists between Jupiter and Saturn in a birth- 
chart, the native may have an attack of cancer. Conjunction 
of Saturn, Ketu and Jupiter in any sign may develop cancer. 
Conjunction of Jupiter, Ketu and Venus in any sign may also 
cause cancer. Mars if posited in the 6th and in dual signs may 
produce cancer. Ketu is called the shadowy planet of chaos 
and confusion. Ketu gives all sorts of mysterious, complicated 
and chronic diseases. If Ketu afflicts the Moon along with 
some other malefics, the native may have cancer. This is the 


140 A complete book on gems 


most important affliction. Conjunction of the moon, Ketu and 
Saturn, the Moon, Ketu and Mars and the Moon, Rahu and 
Saturn may also cause cancer. 


Saturn controls and rules over these two vital parts of the 
body. His gem-stone is light Blue Sapphire. This stone, light 
Blue Sapphire, has miraculous and wonderful healing powers. 
This gem-stone, if worn in madhyama of the right hand, keeps 
your body in perfectly good condition. But the main difficulty 
is that this stone is too cold and should not be worn singly. 
Some precautions should be taken before wearing it. A red 
thread should be worn around your waist and a copper ring 
worn in your first finger, and a Red Coral ring in anamika or 
third finger, light Blue Sapphire 4 rattis and Red Coral 8 rattis 
in summer months and light Blue Sapphire rattis and Red 
Coral 6 rattis in winter months. 


Cataract 


This is the clouding of the crystalline lens of the eye or its 
capsule. Light then fails to reach the retina in sufficient 
quantity to stimulate vision. It causes diminished vision. The 
victim cannot see objects properly. 


Older people are the main victims of this disease. Surgical 
operation is the only treatment. When it is ripe for operation, 
the crystalline lens can be safely removed. The operation is 
swift, painless and almost always successful. With the opacity 
gone, usual vision is restored by wearing thick lenses in front 
of the eye. 


The 2nd and 12th signs of the Zodiac rule over the right 
and left eyes, respectively. The second sign Taurus is ruled by 
Venus and the 12th sign Pisces is ruled by Jupiter. Therefore, 
the Venus or Jupiter if posited in the evil houses 6, 8, 12th 
alongwith the lagna lord may cause cataract. It is said that the 
Sun governs the right eye and the moon the left eye. So when 
these two planets are afflicted in the 2nd or 12th house from 


Therapeutic use of gems 141 


the ascendant it may give cataract. Mercury governs the sight. 
Mercury, if afflicted in the 2nd or 12th house, may produce 
this trouble. It is said that Emerald has the power to improve 
eyesight and white Pearl has the power to restore eyesight. 
Ruby is the most powerful gem for all sorts of eye troubles, 
but it can be used only during the attack. Its constant use is 
not desirable as it is too hot. It is desirable to use Red Coral in 
place of Ruby. 


Cerebral haemorrhage 


It refers to bleeding in the brain, resulting in a stroke or 
apoplexy. Apoplexy is a stroke resulting from a damaged 
blood-vessel in the brain and marked by unconsciousness, 
usually followed by paralysis. 


Bleeding is generally caused by breaking a blood-vessel 
in the brain. High blood pressure may usually evoke cerebral 
haemorrhage. The sign Aries governs the brain. Any affliction 
of this sign by any malefics may cause this trouble. The chief 
planets are Mars, Rahu, Saturn and Sun. Red Coral, Emerald 
and Moonstone may be helpful. 


Chickenpox 


It is a common childhood disease caused by a specific 
virus. Itis usually a mild discomfort and a skin eruption. Little 
raised pimples come out on the skin. Some of tiicse turn into 
small blisters which break in a few hours, leaving a dry crust. 
This disease lasts only about a week. It is certainly a contagious 
disease. It is said that one attack confers immunity to the body. 
Mars is the chief planet which causes this trouble. Use Red 
Coral, red cloth, a red thread or a copper ring. 


Cholera 


It is an acute, communicable disease, caused by the 
comma-shaped cholera vibrio. In mild cases, diarrhoea may 
be the chief and only symptom. In acute cases, extreme 


142 A complete book on gems 


diarrhoea (rice-water stools) is accompanied by great 
dehydration with thirst, vomiting, pain and cramps in the 
abdomen, prostration and unconsciousness. When Mars 
comes into Cancer, one suffers from stomach troubles. Mars 
gets debilitated in Cancer. Mars in Virgo also causes cholera. 
Jupiter in Virgo gives serious liver troubles. Mars gets 
debilitated in Cancer. Mars in Virgo also causes cholera. 
Jupiter in Virgo gives serious liver troubles. The signs Cancer 
and Virgo govern out stomach. Any affliction of these two 
signs will upset the stomach. The 5lh house in a birth-chart 
governs our stomach. Any affliction of this house will give 
rise to stomach disorders. Use Emerald in 6 rattis and Yellow 
Sapphire or Moonstone. 


Cirrhosis of the liver 


Liver is the largest glad in the body. The liver weighs from 
3 to 4 pounds and is situated in the right part of the abdomen. 
It acts as a factory, warehouse and detoxifying station. It 
manufactures and secretes bile which is essential to the process 
of digesting food. Cirrhosis of the liver is also called hardening 
of the liver. 


In cirrhosis of the liver, the normal functioning of cells is 
replaced by harder, fibrous tissue. The liver increases in size 
due to an accumulation of water in it and occupies a greater 
part of the abdomen, giving it a protruded appearance. 


The 5th house in a horoscope governs our stomach but 
the 6th house of the zodiac, i.e. Virgo rules over the liver. The 
lord of the 6th house is Mercury which is chiefly responsible 
for this trouble. If Mercury or Jupiter is afflicted by Saturn or 
Ketu in Cancer or Virgo, the native suffers from this trouble. 
Conjunction of Ketu and Saturn, Ketu and the Sun in the 5th 
house gives rise lo this trouble. Use Emerald and Yellow 
Sapphire. Moonstone in 6 rattis may be used as an additional 
gem in acute cases. 


Therapeutic use of gems 143 


Common cold 


It is certainly the most common infection that affects 
almost everyone at one time or the other. The cold has several 
medical names, viz., corya, catarrh, upper respiratory 
inflection, rhintis and nasopharyngitis. It is caused by the 
Moon and Saturn. Climatic changes are also responsible for 
this trouble. Use only Red Coral in 7 to 9 rattis. Use also red 
cloth, red thread, copper ring. 


Conjunctivitis 


Pink eye is the symptom of conjunctivitis along with 
irritation and pain. It is highly communicable and contagious. 
Excess of red rays in the body causes this trouble. It is caused 
by the planets Sun and Mars. The Sun or Mars in Taurus or 
Pisces may cause this trouble. Excessive heat in the body may 
give rise to conjunctivitis. Use Moonstone in 6 rattis. 


Constipation 


It is the inability to have a bowel movement. It is a 
symptom and not a disease. It causes weariness, headache, 
vomiting, etc. However, accumulation of waste products in 
the lower reaches of the bowel will cause self-poisoning. 
Saturn is responsible for all obstructions and contractions in 
the body. It obstructs free bowel movements when in affliction. 
But Mars removes all waste-products and cleans it by driving 
away from the body. Mars also causes frequent bowel 
movements (diarrhoea). Saturn in Cancer and Virgo in the 
6th house causes serious constipation. Use Red Coral, red 
cloth, red thread or a copper ring. This will provide appropriate 
relief. 


Diabetes 


Diabetes is perhaps the pleasantest of all chronic diseases. 
It is not painful, disfiguring, depressing, or contagious. People 


144 A complete book on gems 


still die of diabetes, but it is no longer considered a dreadful 
or fatal disease. 


Two or tliree malefic planets if posited in watery signs, i.e. 
Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces usually cause diabetes. This is the 
chief planetary afflictionwhich is solely and chiefly responsible 
for causing diabetes. The sixth house from the ascendant 
controls the kidneys. Two or tiiree malefics in the 6th house 
may develop diabetes. 


Libra has a good control over kidneys. Two or tliree 
malefics here may encourage diabetes. Libra is the 7th house 
of the zodiac. It controls the urinary system. So if two or three 
malefics are posited in Libra or in the 7th house, the native 
may be attacked by diabetes. The Moon and Venus are watery 
planets. If they are afflicted by fiery planets like Mars or the 
Sun in watery signs, the native may be attacked with diabetes. 
If the 6th lord is posited in the 8th or the 8th lord in the 6th, 
the native may develop diabetes. 


Moonga should be adorned in the middle finger. 
Diarrhoea 


It is one of the common diseases that gives us trouble 
very often. In summer months, everyone suffers from 
diarrhoea. Usual symptoms of this disease are loose bowels 
or frequent bowel movements alongwith stomach-ache. The 
causes are numerous, such as over-eating, food poisoning, 
emotional stress, absence of any physical activity, change of 
weather and eating stale food. When Mars comes in Cancer 
or Virgo during gochara movement, everyone suffers from 
diarrhoea. Malefics in Cancer or Virgo may give rise to this 
trouble. The 4th and 6th house of the zodiac govern our 
stomach. So any affliction of these two houses will produce 
stomach troubles. Use Emerald and Yellow Sapphire or 
Moonstone. 


Therapeutic use of gems 145 
Digestive disorders 


The digestive system consists of a long tube about 24 to 
36 feet long, winding through the body from the mouth to the 
anus. Any disorder of this system will result in diarrhoea, 
dysentery, etc. The Sun governs the gastric glands which 
secrete digestive juices and in the absence of clear rays of the 
Sun, our digestion suffers. The Sun is the chief planet for 
digestion, and its rays are essential for proper and good 
digestion. During the rainy season, when the sky remains 
cloudy, digestive disorders invade our body. Use Emerald and 
Yellow Sapphire or Moonstone. 


Diseases of the blood 


There are a great many diseases popularly called blood 
diseases. They are syphilis, anaemia, leukeamia, laeukopenia, 
etc. Saturn and Mars together in I st, 6th, 12th houses give 
rise to this trouble. the Sun in the 7th house from the position 
of Saturn or Mars causes this trouble. When the lord of the 
2nd house is conjoined with Mars, blood diseases appear. Mars 
in 6th, 7th, 10th house from the lord of the 2nd house also 
gives this trouble. Mars in the 2nd or in the 8th house gives 
blood disorders. Use Red Coral and Yellow Sapphire, or 
Moonstone. 


Diseases of the feet 


Saturn is the chief planet which causes foot disorders. 
Common foot troubles are corns, callouses, bunions, blisters, 
chilblains, ringworm, excessive sweating, etc. The feet are 
also subject to fracture, dislocations, sprains, bruises and 
strains, often as a result of athletic injuries. Saturn or Venus 
in the 6th house may give rise to this trouble. Malefics in 
Pisces also cause this trouble. Rahu or Ketu in the 1 st house 
and Saturn in the 7th house give this trouble. Malefics in 
Aquarius and Capricorn cause foot troubles. Use Red Coral 
in 7 to 9 rattis. 


146 A complete book on gems 


Diseases of the nose 


The nose is subject to malformation, accident, infection, 
new groyyths and other damages. There may be a running nose, 
the stuffed-up nose, the red nose, the bloody nose, and the 
mis-happen nose. A running nose is the first sign of the 
comman cold. The stuffed-up nose is an inability to breathe 
effectively through the nose. A red nose is the result of chronic 
inflammation of the nostrils, chronic indigestion. Nosebleed 
(epistaxis) is usually the result of violence. The Moon in the 
6th house or Saturn in the 8th house or a combination of Mars. 
Saturn or Rahu in Taurus may give rise to this trouble. Use 
Red Coral in 7 to 9 rattis. 


Dribbling 


Inability to withhold the flow of urine is known as 
dribbling. It is a sign of bladder trouble or kidney trouble. 
The signs Libra and Scorpio rule over the kidney and bladder. 
Venus governs kidneys, bladder and generative system. Mars 
governs the external sex organs. When any one of these two 
planets are afflicted in Libra or Scorpio, bladder troubles may 
arise. Use White Coral or Red Coral. 


Dropsy 


It is the excessive accumulation of fluid in the body tissues. 
It is now associated with the disorders of the heart, blood- 
vessels or kidneys. Swollen ankles and a swollen abdomen 
are common symptoms of dropsy. Jupiter afflicted in Cancer 
or Pisces causes dropsy. Ketu heavily afflicted in Cancer or 
Pisces gives dropsy. Use Red Coral and Yellow Sapphire. 


Dysentery 


It is a kind of stomach disorder characterised by abdominal 
pain, belly-ache, diarrhoea, bloody-stools, mucusfilled stools, 
etc. It is called amebae (amebic dysentery) and bacteria 


Therapeutic use of gems 147 


(barcillary dysentery). It denotes irritation of bowels and pain 
in the stomach with frequent bowel movements. Mercury plays 
an important role in causing this disease. Mars when coming 
into Cancer or Virgo causes this trouble. The 4th and 6th 
houses of the zodiac rule over our stomach. Any affliction of 
these two houses by malefics will give rise to this trouble. 
Use Emerald and Yellow Sapphire or Moonstone. 


Ear-troubles 


The most common form of ear-trouble is the accumulation 
of wax in the ear which causes deafness, earache, ringing in 
the ear. The planet Saturn governs the ear and Mercury rules 
over ear nerves. The 3rd and 11th houses of the zodiac, i.e. 
Gemini and Aquarius govern our right and left ears, 
respectively. Of the five senses, Saturn governs hearing. When 
Mercury or Saturn is afflicted in the 3rd or |1 th house, the 
native may suffer from this disease. Mercury in the 6th and 
Venus in the 10th house cause deafness of right ear. Use 
Emerald and Red Coral. 


Eczema ’ 


It is a non-infectious skin disease characterised by 
inflammation, itching and scaliness. Its causes are food- 
allergy, exposure to toxic chemicals and mechanical irritants. 
Venus governs the skin and when she is afflicted in Libra, or 
Capricorn, the native suffers from this trouble. Jupiter in 
Capricorn may also give rise to eczema. Use White coral and 
Yellow Sapphire. 


Enuresis 


Bed wetting is called enuresis. It is the involuntary 
discharge of urine while sleeping. In children, the condition 
is due to psychological factors; it is often an unconscious attack 
against rejection and lack of tender loving care. The permanent 
cure lies in improving the parent-child relationship. Enuresis 


148 A complete book on gems 


in adults results from bladder trouble or damage to the part of 
the nervous system that controls bladder function. Use Red 
Coral and Emerald. 


Epilepsy 


It is characterised by sudden disturbances of brain 
function. The patient frequently goes into violent fits or 
convulsions. It also results in temporary loss of consciousness. 
It is not a hereditary disease. The chief causes of this are brain 
injury, diseases in other organs reacting upon the brain, 
emotional disturbances and alcoholic excesses. The sign Aries 
governs the brain. Mars controls the brain, Mercury the brain 
nerves and Moon the mind and mental structure. Any affliction 
of these planets in Aries by Rahu or Saturn may give rise to 
this trouble. Ketu in evil aspect to the Moon or Mercury in 
Aries gives rise to this trouble. Use Emerald and Moon Stone. 
Red Coral may be used if necessary. 


Fever 


It is a body temperature above normal body temperature 
of 98.6 Fahrenheit (taken orally). Fever is a sign of disease 
accompanied by other signs, viz, a more rapid pulse, changes 
in breathing, a feeling of chill, nausea, diarrhoea and headache. 
In high fever, unconsciousness or delirium may take place. 
Fever may be of several types: malarial-fever, meningitis, 
typhoid, rheumatic fever, scarlet fever, yellow fever, etc. Mars 
gives all fevers and inflammations in the body. Absence of 
red rays causes fever. Anyhow, red rays are required to be 
injected into the body. This can be done by the use of red 
cloth, red thread, or a copper ring. Use Red Coral. 


Fistula 


The most common types of fistula are vesico-vaginal 
fistula between the bladder and the vagina, sometimes the 
result of childbirth injury, arteriovenous fistula, an abnormal 


Therapeutic use of gems 149 


connection between an artery and a vein caused by either a 
congenital malformation or a wound to the artery, a salivary 
fistula through which saliva dribbles out on the cheek instead 
of going into the mouth. Mars is the main planet which causes 
this disease. Use Red Coral and Moonstone. 


Gangrene 


It arises due to the death of body tissue over an area large 
enough to be visible. When the circulation of blood to a part 
of the body is so damaged that the tissues can no longer get 
nourishment or dispose of their waste products, the result is 
gangrene. Dry gangrene occurs in older people. Saturn is the 
main planet which causes this trouble. Use Red Coral, red 
cloth, red thread and a copper ring. 


Gastric ulcer 


A peptic ulcer is a breach or erosion in the inner linings 
and, rarely, the entire wall of the stomach or the duodenum. 
A true stomach ulcer is called a gastric ulcer, the others are 
duodenal ulcers. From the standpoint of symptoms and 
treatment, they are pretty much alike. The causes of gastric 
ulcer are anxiety, worry, nervous tension, irregular eating, 
alcohol, spicy dishes, heavy pressures of work, etc. An excess 
of hydrochloric acid in the stomach eats away sites of ulcer 
causing pain and other complications. Saturn or Ketu, if 
afflicted in Cancer or Virgo, causes gastric ulcer. The Sun or 
Ketu in the 5th house from the ascendant if afflicted by Mars 
gives rise to this trouble. Use Emerald and Yellow Sapphire 
on the middle and 3rd finger, respectively. Moonstone may 
be used as an additional gem in acute cases. 


Glaucoma 


It is a serious disease of unknown cause, begins in the 
fluids encased in the eyeball. The pressure that these fluids 
exert against other parts of the eye increases, suddenly or 


150 A complete book on gems 


gradually. If this pressure is not relieved, it may take the eyeball 
hard, damage the retina and even destroy fibres of the optic. 
In titis disease, glasses do no good. Women are more likely to 
suffer from glaucoma than men. The Sun and the Moon if 
afflicted in the 2nd or 12th house by Saturn or Rahu, the native 
may suffer from this disease. Use Red Coral and White Pearl. 


Goiter (Hypertrophy) 


Enlargement of the thyroid gland or excess growth of cells 
is commonly known as goiter. It is caused by deficiency of 
iodine in the food. Venus if afflicted in Taurus or in the 6lh 
house causes this trouble. Use White Coral and Moonstone. 


Gonorrhea 


It is a venereal disease and is caused by a specific microbe, 
the gonococcus spread by illicit sexual intercourse. The only 
source of gonorrehal infection is discharge from lesions of 
the mucous membranes or lymph nodes of persons currently 
afflicted. The usual symptoms are burning and pain during 
urination, discomfort in the urinary region and the discharge 
of a few drops of pus from the open end of the penis. In women, 
the symptoms are yellowish vaginal discharge and a painful 
swelling or abscess of the glands at the mouth of the vulva. 
Mars in the 7th or 8th house if heavily afflicted by malefics 
causes this trouble. Use Red Coral in 9 rattis and Moonstone. 


Gout or rheumatism 


Gout is a form of arthritis which may affect both the joints 
and ankles making them suddenly painful, red and tender. It 
is a metabolic disease in which the body fails to get rid of uric 
acid. The excess uric acid may crystallise in various parts of 
the body. 


These chalky deposits called tophi can be found in the ear 
lobes, elbows, skin (about the finger nail) and in the cartilage 
inside joints. Preventing attacks require cutting down on food 


Therapeutic use of gems 1S] 


and weight and avoiding protein foods that foster the 
formulation of uric acid. Jupiter in lagna and Saturn in the 
7th house cause gout. Saturn is the main planet which causes 
gout. Saturn in Taurus, Leo, Virgo, Sagittarius, Capricorn or 
Pisces causes this trouble. Saturn in Ist, 5th, 7th, 12th house 
also causes gout. Mars in the }0 th house afflicted by Saturn 
may give this trouble. Conjunction of Saturn and Rahu in the 
2nd or 3rd produces gout. Use Red Coral or Yellow Sapphire. 


Headache 


It is probably the most commonest complaint which vexes 
us. The causes are numerous. Some are anxiety. injuries to 
the head or other parts of the body, epilepsy, liver troubles, 
kidney troubles, eye troubles, sinus infection, fever, etc. Eye 
trouble is a frequent cause of headache. Exertion or fatigue 
may also cause headache. The main planet is Mercury which 
controls the brain nerves. 


Other planets are Mars and Saturn. The sign Aries governs 
our brain, head and forehead. Any affliction of this sign by 
malefics will give rise to this trouble. Use Emerald and 
Moonstone. 


Heart diseases 


There are at least 20 kinds of organic heart diseases that 
usually affect the heart muscles, the valves of the heart or its 
inner or outer lining. There are also a number of functional 
disorders of the heart. The most common type of heart diseases 
are high blood pressure (hypertension) and hardening of the 
arteries (arteriosclerosis). A hear attack is usually a case of 
coronary tiirombosis. Heart failure happens when the heart is 
unable to pump blood efficiently to all parts of the body. 
Rheumatic fever is a kind of heart disease. The 4th house 
from the ascendant rules over our heart. The signs Cancer 
and Leo control over heart. The planets involved in causing 


152 A complete book on gems 


heart disease are the Moon, Jupiter, Mercury, Sun, Saturn and 
Rahu. The Moon governs the heart, Mercury the nerves, Mars 
the blood and brain, the Sun the brain and heart. Any three 
planets in Leo or Aquarius if heavily afflicted will give heart 
trouble. The Sun in Cancer, Aquarius or Pisces causes 
heartache. The Moon in Gemini or Leo gives heart disease. 
When the lagna is in a watery sign and lord of the lagna 
occupies a dusthana, i.e. 6th, 8th, 12th position, the native 
gets heart attack. When the sign Leo or Aquarius and the 4th 
house from the ascendant are afflicted by Mars. Rahu or 
Saturn, the native gets heart trouble. Saturn governs breathing 
and if he afflicts the sign Leo or Aquarius the native gets 
heart trouble. Use Emerald, Moonstone and Yellow Sapphire. 
Red Coral may be used as an additional gem in acute cases. 


Hepatitis 


Inflammation of the liver is called hepatitis. This is a virus 
infection. Jupiter and Mercury are the main planets responsible 
for this trouble. Use Emerald and Yellow Sapphire. Moonstone 
may be used as an additional gem. 


Hiccough 


It is caused due to an involuntary contraction of the 
diaphragm that closes the glottis—a breathing tube from the 
throat—at the moment of breathing in. Rahu in Taurus afflicted 
by malefics or the Sun in Cancer afflicted by Rahu may give 
rise to this trouble. Use Red Coral, red cloth, red thread. 


Hernia 


The protrusion of a loop or part of the intestine through 
an abnormal hole in the abdominal wall is called hernia. 
Sometimes a loop of bowel protrudes into the scrotum. It is 
usually caused by weakness or absence of muscles, ligaments 
and other connecting tissue that should hold organs in then- 
place. A most rare type is the protrusion of the stomach and 


Therapeutic use of gems 153 


other parts of the upper abdomen into the lungs through a 
hole in the diaphragm muscle which separates the chest cavity 
from the abdominal cavity. Venus is Scorpio or in the 6th 
house afflicted by Saturn or Mars in Virgo receiving the evil 
rays of Saturn may give rise to this trouble. Use Red Coral 
and Yellow Sapphire. 


High blood pressure 


Now-a-days high blood pressure takes away many 
valuable human lives. It is considered as the highest killer. It 
is consistent elevation of the pressure of blood pushing against 
the walls of the arteries .and other blood vessels. It may be 
diagnosed when after repeated examinations, blood pressure 
measurements continue to stand above the normal range. 


Astrologically the Sun and Mars rule over the heart. Jupiter 
governs our lungs. Saturn and Mercury control over heart and 
brain nerves. The Moon governs the mind, mental structure, 
breast and chest. The signs Gemini, Cancer and Leo govern 
our lungs, chest and heart, respectively. It is said that any three 
planets if posited in Leo or Aquarius, the native will invariably 
suffer from serious type of heart troubles. Gemini has control 
over the lungs, respiratory system, bronchial tubes and nervous 
system. Malefics here in Gemini cause heart trouble, asthma, 
pneumonia, bronchitis, consumption, pleurisy and so on. Mars 
in Gemini gives bronchitis, inflammation of the lungs, 
pneumonia. Mercury in Gemini gives bronchitis and defects 
in the respiratory system. Saturn in Gemini gives pneumonia, 
consumption, bronchitis and pleurisy. Jupiter in Gemini gives 
pleurisy, blood disorders and lung affliction. 


Singly they are not so bad. But two or three malefics in 
Gemini would certainly cause serious health troubles like 
asthma, consumption, pleurisy, bronchitis, etc. Conjunction 
of the Moon and Ketu in Gemini is very dangerous as it gives 
asthma, hypertension, consumption, etc. Conjunction of the 


154 A complete book on gems 
Moon and Saturn is also a dangerous combination. 


The 4th house from the ascendant also rules over our heart. 
Mars if afflicted in the 4th house by other malefics gives 
hypertension. Singly Mars is not very bad but when conjoined 
with Saturn or Rahu in the 4th house, it becomes virulent and 
causes serious types of hypertension. The lagna stands for 
self and body. Two or thrce malefics in the ascendant may 
cause hypertension. The 7th house also gives prolonged 
sickness as the planets posited in the 7th house directly aspect 
the lagna. 


Therefore, malefics in the 7th house give heavy and long 
periods of sickness. The sign Cancer governs our chest and 
stomach. Malefics here give heart and stomach troubles. 
Saturn in Cancer causes asthmatic complaints. Mars in Cancer 
gives gastric fever, typhoid, enteric fever and bilious 
complaints. Singly they are not so bad, but when conjoined 
with one or two other malefics, they usually become virulent 
and cause much trouble. 


Conjunction of Mars and Saturn in Cancer is very 
dangerous as this union damages the heart as well as stomach. 
The native would invariably suffer either from gastric ulcer 
or from hypertension. Conjunction of the Moon and Ketu in 
Cancer is also dangerous. Leo causes ailments through 
inharmonious living and generally disturbs the heart and 
blood. Usually it governs the heart. Saturn in Leo causes 
organic weakness of the heart and Saturn in Aries gives 
cerebral troubles. Mars in Leo gives palpitation of the heart 
and hypertension. Venus in Leo also causes heart troubles. 
Mercury in Leo gives palpitation and spasms of the heart. 
Rahu or Ketu in Leo also causes serious heart troubles. 


Rahu in Aries gives spasmodic pains in the head and 
inflammation of the coverings and membranes of the brain. 
Singly they are not so bad, but conjoined with one or two 


Therapeutic use of gems 155 


other malefics, they become virulent and would invariably 
damage the heart and cause hypertension. So the conjunction 
of Saturn and Mars, or Mars and Rahu in Leo would invariably 
give hypertension. 


Thus two or three strong malefics in Gemini, Cancer, Leo 
or Aquarius directly aspect Leo and thus damage the heart 
and cause heart troubles. So two or three malefics in Aquarius 
is a sure indication of getting high blood pressure. Consult 
astrologer in this case. 


Hydrocete 


This is the accumulation of fluids in the serotal sac causing 
it to swell. In infant and children, it usually goes away. In 
adults it can be treated by the simple operation of removing 
the accumulated fluid through a hollow needle. Hydroceles 
sometimes disappear and return. {t is sometimes mistaken for 
a hernia or rupture and then diagnosis may become difficult. 
A hernia usually changes size with changes in body position 
but a hydrocele stays about the same size. The sign Scorpio 
rules over the sex organs. The 7th or 8th house from the 
ascendant governs our private parts. Malefics in the 8th or 
2nd house or in Scorpio cause this trouble. Mars and Venus 
are the two planets which cause this trouble, if heavily afflicted 
by Rahu or Saturn. Use Red Coral and Moonstone. 


Hysteria 


It means frequent fits and faintings. It is one of the many 
forms of mental illness, commonly known as neurosis which 
includes shouting, wildly weeping and fainting. The three 
mental rules are the Moon, Mercury and Saturn. The signs 
Gemini, Virgo and Aquarius rule over our mind and mental 
structure. The 3rd and 9th houses from the ascendant govern 
our mind and mental structure. Even the simple association 
of Rahu or Saturn with the Moon or Mercury may give rise to 
this trouble. When the Moon occupies either signs of Saturn 


156 A complete book on gems 


or Capricorn or Aquarius, the native will suffer from hysteria. 
Use Red Coral and Moonstone. 


Impotency 


It is the inability of the male to have an erection of the 
penis. It may be caused by nerve injuries, excessive indulgence 
in sexual activities in early life, or excessive alcoholic 
addiction. The 8th houses of the zodiac, i.e. Scorpio and the 
7th house from the ascendant govern our private parts. 
Malefics in the 7th or 8th house from the ascendant may give 
rise to this trouble. Mars or Venus if afflicted by Saturn or 
Rahu can make a man impotent. Use Red and White Coral. 
Yellow Sapphire may be used as an additional gem in acute 
cases. 


Influenza 


It is a vims disease affecting the respiratory, nervous and 
gastro-intestinal system. It is the first stage of pneumonia. If 
it causes brain inflammation, it will become fatal. The 
symptoms are headache, fatigue, severe pain in the body, 
drowsiness, chills and fever, a dry cough and painful eyes. It 
is purely a Mars disease. Mars coming in Cancer or Leo causes 
this trouble. It usually occurs during change of season, and 
especially during the winter months. Use Red Coral and 
Yellow Sapphire. 


Insanity 


It is a mental disease. It is the exaggeration of personal 
behaviour to the point where it strikes other people as queer, 
old, abnormal or dangerous. It represents the individual's 
failure to resolve emotional conflicts in his conscious mind 
and his unconscious choice of behaviour patterns that he feels 
will protect him. Mental illness is a reaction against and an 
escape from inner pain and conflict. 


Therapeutic use of gems 157 


Temporary distortions of some mental faculties such as 
memory and power of concentration frequently occur. The 
causes are brain damage, stress and strain, anxiety and worry, 
etc. It arises when the Sun or the Moon in the Ist, 5th, 9th 
houses of a birth-chart are afflicted by Saturn or Rahu. The 
Moon and Rahu in the 8th or 12th house afflicted by Mars 
may cause lunacy. Any affliction by Rahu or Saturn to the 
Moon or Mercury in any house will cause lunacy. Mercury in 
the 6th, 8th, 12th house if afflicted by Rahu or Saturn may 
give rise to insanity. Use Emerald, Red Coral and Moonstone. 


Jaundice 


Jaundice was formerly defined simply as the condition 
brought about by staining of the skin, whites of the eyes and 
tissues with bile pigment. The modem conception regards 
excess of bile pigment in the circulating blood as the essential 
point, the staining of the tissues being secondary. Jaundice in 
the blood may disappear and yet the skin, whites of the eyes 
and tissues remain yellow for many days. 


Astrologically, Jupiter is the chief karaka planet for 
jaundice. The 5th house of the Zodiac is Virgo and its ruler is 
Mercury. Mercury if afflicted by 2/3 malefics gives this 
trouble. 


The 5th house from the ascendant rules over our stomach. 
Ketu is the planet of chaos and confusion. He gives all sorts 
of mysterious diseases. Ketu if posited in the 5th house and 
afflicted by 2/3 malefics confers this disease. 


The sign Cancer also governs our stomach as it is a watery 
sign. Its ruler is the Moon. The Moon if afflicted by malefics 
in 4th, 5th, 7th causes this trouble. Mars or Saturn if posited 
in Cancer causes liver troubles. If Rahu or Ketu is posited in 
the 7th, the native suffers from jaundice. 


Many planets govern our stomach. The Sun controls the 
glands, Mercury the nerves, Jupiter the liner, Saturn the spleen 


158 A complete book on gems 


and intestinal nerves, Mars the muscles of stomach and the 
Moon our stomach. But when compared with Saturn in 
strength, all other planets become feeble. Use Blue Sapphire 
(light) in 5 rattis in madhyama and Red Coral (7/8 rattis) on 
right arm will help. 


Leprosy 


Leprosy is an ancient and awesome disease. Rahu is the 
chief planet which causes this disease. Position of Rahu in 
3rd, 6th, 12th house is enough to render the native liable for 
leprosy. It is said that Ketu also in similar positions is capable 
of manifesting this disease. The well-known kustha yoga is 
formed when the lord of lagna is conjoined with Mars and 
Mercury in the 4th or I2th houses. The kustha yoga is also 
formed when Jupiter occupies the 6th house along with Saturn 
and the Moon. If Venus and Mars are in the 7th, aspect by 
Ketu or Saturn, a virulent form of leprosy may appear. A 
person will contact leprosy in his 20th year if the Moon and 
Jupiter are in the 6th house. Use Gomedh and Red Coral jointly 
or Gomedh and White Coral. 


Leucoderma 


Leucoderma is a chromic skin manifested as areas of 
depigmentation. Any portion of the skin or scalp may be 
involved. White patches, multiple or single, tend to increase 
in size and are more prominent because of their contrast with 
surrounding and normal skin. Spread is slow over many years. 
Causation is conjectural. It is not usually observed prior to 
puberty but children are also not exempt. 


The condition is rarely associated with any general 
pathological change. There would appear to be no connexion 
with adrenal, pituitary or ovarian diseases. 


The white patches are due to a chemical substance called 
"Melanin". It is found in various regions of the body, perhaps 


Therapeutic use of gems 159 


most abundantly in the skin. Melanin is found in everybody's 
skin. Where there is an excess of melanin in the skin, 
leucoderma appears. There is no disturbance of nutrition, 
sensation or function within either the hyper-pigmented or 
depigmented skin. 


Astrologically, there are many planetary combinations 
which produce leucoderma to the native. Ifthe combination 
of the Moon, Mars and Saturn is placed in Aries or Taurus, 
the native may be attacked with leucoderma. If Saturn is placed 
in the 12th house, Mars in the 2nd. the Moon in the ascendant 
and the Sun in the 7th, the native be attacked with this disease. 
The lord of the ascendant or the Moon and Mars if afflicted 
by Rahu or Ketu produce leucoderma. Combination of the 
lord of the ascendant, the Moon and Mercury if afflicted by 
Rahu or Ketu may give leucoderma. Venus governs our skin 
and facial beauty. Venus if posited in the ascendant makes the 
native beautiful, good looking. fair complexioned, etc. 


Venus if debilitated or afflicted by malefics in a watery 
sign or posited in her enemy's sign, gives leucoderma. This 
gives severe affliction. Some astrologers opine that Mercury 
also rules over our skin. He gives all sorts of skin diseases. 
Mercury if posited in his enemy's sign or debilitated and 
afflicted by 2/3 malefics may cause leucoderma. The Moon 
and Venus if conjoined in a watery sign (Cancer, Scorpio or 
Pisces) may give leucoderma. 


In such cases, the native is required to wear two stones, 
viz., |. Diamond % ofa ratti and 2. Emerald in 4 rattis on 
madhyama. Light Blue Sapphire can also be used. 


Malaria 


Malaria is a mosquito-borne disease. The characteristic 
symptoms of malaria arc shivering, chills, high fever and 
profuse sweating. often accompanied by headache, nausea, 
mental confusion and extreme tiiirst. The attacks are periodic. 


160 A complete book on gems 


The attacks may come daily, every other day or at intervals of 
four days. Because the parasite attacks the red blood cells. 
Anemia and enlargement of the spleen are common 
consequences. The anopheles mosquito is the main carrier of 
this disease. The treatment of malaria depended for centuries 
on the quinine contained in the bark of certain trees. Atabrine, 
quinacrine, primaquine, chloroquine are widely used as 
remedy for malarial fever. Mars in Leo causes malaria. 
Mercury in Leo afflicted by Saturn also causes the same 
disease. Use Red Coral and Moonstone. 


Measles 


It is a childhood disease which is also infectious. It is one 
of the most contagious diseases known. It is of greatest risk 
to children between 6 months to 5 years of age. It is said 
measles catches from measles; that is from exposure to the 
oral or nasal discharge of an individual who has the disease. 
The incubation period of measles is from 7 to 14 days. The 
usual symptoms are the nose runs, the eyes turn red and watery, 
a hard dry cough with fever. Pncumonia. bronchitis and ear 
abscesses often come just after the rash appears in most cases. 
Mars is the main planet which causes this disease. Use Red 
Coral, red cloth, red thread and a copper ring. 


Menstrual disorders 


Menstruation normally occurs every 28 days counted from 
the first day of the menstrual flow. A truly missed period may 
indicate pregnancy, but it is always not so. The cycle may be 
upset by disease or physical shock or emotional excitement. 
The Moon is the main planet which governs the uterus, ovary, 
and fallopian tubes. 


Mars is responsible for starting the flow by causing 
breakage of the uterine tissue but the actual flow and its 
duration is controlled by the Moon. The Sun comes next when 
the conception takes place. Generally the onset of the menses 


The rape utic use of gems 161 


occurs when Mars during transit aspects the Moon-sign which 
is quite enough to excite the flow. Both delivery of the child 
and menstrual flow are controlled by the Moon. The moon is 
all-in-all in a female horoscope. She governs the breasts, 
stomach, mind, mental structure, reproductive and sex organs. 
marriage relationship, conjugal happiness and child's health. 
So a single gem, White Pearl in 10/12 rattis, is sufficient to 
give sound health. In case of profuse bleeding, use Red Coral. 
as an additional gem. 


Mental illness 


Mental illness means temporary distortions of mental 
faculties such as memory and power of concentration. It docs 
not mean real and permanent deterioration of the intellect. 
Mental illness is not mental deficiency but temporary 
dislocation of mental faculties and losing one's grip. Many 
people who suffer from mental illness are far above normal 
in intelligence. The Moon, Mercury and Saturn are the three 
main rulers. The 3rd and 9th houses from the ascendant are 
the mental signs. The signs Gemini, Virgo and Aquarius also 
rule over our mind and mental structure. Any affliction of 
these signs and houses by malefics will give rise to mental 
disturbances. Even simple association of Saturn or Rahu with 
the Moon causes mental ailments. When Mars afflicts the 
Sun or Mercury in Gemini or Virgo, the native will invariably 
suffer from lunacy. Use Emerald, Moonstone and Yellow 
Sapphire. Red Coral may be required in acute cases. 


Paralysis 


It is loss of muscle function usually due to damage to the 
nerves that control the muscles. The impairment of function 
may be minor or extreme; temporary or permanent. It is usually 
caused by a stroke, polio, paralysis, muscular distrophy, etc. 
Here the chief planets are Mercury who governs the nerves 
and Saturn, which causes paralysis. 


162 A complete book on gems 


The gems to be used are Red Coral and Emerald. 
Moonstone may be used as an additional gem. 


Piles 


Haemorrhoids or piles arc swollen or varicose veins 
situated just inside or outside or across the walls of the anus. 
The presence of bleeding piles is usually observed just after a 
bowel movement. It sometimes accompanied by an itching 
sensation around the anus. Its causes are 
numerous-constipation, over-weight, sedentary living habits 
and liver troubles. The 7th and 8th house from the ascendant 
govern sexual parts-anus, rectum. The sign Scorpio controls 
our anus and rectum. Malefics in the 7th and 8th, if heavily 
afflicted, give piles. Mars in the 8th gives bleeding piles. 
Saturn or Rahu in the 8th gives blind piles, Ketu in the 12th 
gives bleeding piles. Use Red or White coral along with 
Moonstone. 


Pleurisy 


Pleurisy is caused by inflammation and infection of the 
pleura, the membrane enveloping the lungs and lining the chest 
cavity. It is a primary complication of tuberculosis. It may 
arise suddenly and linger on for a long time. The usual 
symptoms are sharp pains in the lungs followed by chills, 
fever, dry cough and difficult breathing. The signs Gemini 
and Leo govern our lungs. Jupiter and Mars in Gemini or Leo 
afflicted by Saturn or Rahu give rise to this trouble. Use Red 
Coral and Yellow Sapphire. Emerald may be used at night. 


Pneumonia 


Inflammation of the lungs is known as pneumonia. If both 
the lungs are involved, it is called double pneumonia. |! 
appears specially in the winter months and any change ol 
weather causes this trouble. The usual symptoms are shivering 
chills, high and rising fever, sharp pains in the chest, a painful 


Therapeutic use of gems 163 


cough and bloodflecked sputum. The Sun, Jupiter or Mars 
during transit when coming in Gemini, Leo or Aquarius if 
afflicted by malefics may give rise to this trouble. Use Red 
Coral and Yellow Sapphire. White Coral may be used as an 
additional gem if necessary. 


Smallpox 


It is a virus disease and is also called variola. The usual 
symptoms are high fever, pain, presence of small pits or 
pockmarks on the skin, particularly on the face. The incubation 
period for smallpox is from 2 to 3 weeks after exposure. It is 
a Mars disease. Use Red Coral, red cloth, red thread and a 
copper ring. 


Syphilis 


This is a venereal disease and is also called bad blood. 
This is caused by sexual intercourse with a syphilitic person. 
It is spread by direct contact with infected people. It is a very 
dangerous disease. The 7th or 8th house from the ascendant 
governs our private parts. Mars and Venus if heavily afflicted 
in any one of these houses may give rise to this trouble. Use 
Red and White Coral. 


Tuberculosis 


It is commonly known as consumption, phthisis, white 
plague. It is an infectious disease caused by the tubercular 
bacillus. Once the tubercle bacillus enters the body, it may 
settle in any part bones, joints, bladder. spine, lungs, kidneys 
and glands. But in most cases, the affected parts are the lungs. 
Surgery is essential in this disease in order to remove the 
affected part. The Moon. Saturn or Jupiter in Leo, Gemini or 
Aquarius heavily afflicted by Mars or Ketu may give rise to 
this trouble. Use Red Coral and Yellow Sapphire. While Pearl 
may be used as an additional gem in acute cases. 


164 A complete book on gems 
Typhoid fever 


It is an enteric or intestinal fever. The common sites of 
attack are the spleen and bowels. The usual symptoms are 
high fever. splitting headache, rose-red splotches on the skin, 
extreme prostration, bloody stools, diarrhoea and dysentery. 
But the main symptom is acute diarrhoea with fever. Jupiter, 
Mars and Mercury are responsible for causing this trouble. 
Mars or Jupiter when comes in Cancer or Virgo if heavily 
afflicted by Mercury or Ketu may give rise to this trouble. 
Use Emerald, Yellow Sapphire and Moonstone. 


Whooping cough 


It is a serious childhood disease. The infecting microbe is 
a bacillus. The source of infection is discharge of other infected 
children. The incubation period is normally one week but 
unfortunately this disease can linger on up to two months. Use 
Red Coral, red cloth, red thread and a copper ring. 


As age advances, spontaneous deterioration of all parts 
of the body mechanism will occur. Gems can provide 
permanent recovery and may keep everybody young. 


Gems are generally used as a second line of defence against 
any disease. 


During the winter months, most old people suffer from 
respiratory trouble. The force of the heart is gradually 
diminished, with the result that it pumps less blood with each 
beat. Bronchial and pulmonary infections are a common cause 
of death in elderly people. 


However, pulmonary tuberculosis has been brought under 
control. Autopsy and chronic bronchitis are still taking away 
many lives. 


Chronic bronchitis kills more old people than pulmonary 
tuberculosis, lobar pneumonia, etc. This is more common in 
males than in females. The heart is under the control of several 


Therapeutic use of gems 165 


planets. The most important ones are the Sun, Moon. Mars, 
Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury. 


Combined use of Red Coral, Emerald and White Pearl 
will be found useful here. Sometimes Blue Sapphire is also 
required. 


Kidney 


In old age, kidneys become weak and the formation of 
urine is somewhat less. Frequency of micturition, especially 
at night, may be due to hypersensitiveness of the urinary 
bladder or prostrate enlargement in the case of males. 


There may be occasional dribbling, i.e. inability to withold 
the flow of urine. It is a sign of bladder trouble. Bladder trouble 
is usually indicated by abnormalities in passing urine, 
especially frequency, urgency and pain. 


Infection and inflammation of the bladder are generally 
associated with infection in other parts of the urinary system. 
Two planets, Mars and Venus, generally govern the kidneys 
and the urinary system. Combined use of Red Coral, White 
Coral (both 4 rattis) and Blue Sapphire in 3 rattis will be of 
great help to the victim. 


Muscular system 


Due to loss of weight, the efficiency of the skeletal muscles 
gradually diminishes after 50 years. The efficiency of the 
voluntary as well as involuntary muscles also is gradually 
diminished as age advances. Astrologically. Mercury controls 
and governs the entire nervous system. Saturn also plays an 
important role in ruling over the nervous system. Mars governs 
the muscles in our body. So in old age, combined use of Red 
Coral in 4 rattis on anamika, Emerald in 5 rattis on madhyama 
and Blue Sapphire in 3 rattis on kanista would give wonderful 
results. 


Older people also suffer from partial deafness or loss of 
hearing. The most common form of ear trouble is the 


166 


A complete book on gems 


accumulation of wax in the ear which causes burning, pain 


and deafness. 


Saturn governs the ear and the Blue Sapphire may be used 


to remove deafness. 


Blue Sapphire should be used along with Red Coral. 


Diseases and gems in netshcll 


Alcoholism 


Allergies 
Anaemia 
Appendicitis 
Arthritis 
Asthma 


Blood Pressure 
(Hypertension) 


Blood circulation 
Bladder Ailments 
Body Pains 
Brain Tumours 
Bronchitis 


Breast Cancer 


Cancer 
Cold, Sinus 
Colic 


Conjunctivitis 


Depressive Psychosis 


Diabetes 


Kalkelu) (Neefaunt),Blue Sapphire. 
Amethyst plus White Sapphire. 


Cat's Eye, Gomed, Chrysoberyl 
Yellow Sapphire plus Red Coral 
Red Coral or Yellow Sapphire 
Red Coral + Labradorite 


(i) Chrysoberyl (ii) Emerald in gold plus 
Yellow Sapphire plus Moonstone in silver 
(iii) White Pearl 

Garnet, Ruby, Blue Sapphire, Ruby. 
Emerald 

Heart and indigestion, Ruby, Garnet 

Red Coral (Moonga) and Yellow Sapphire 
Garnet, Blue Sapphire 

(i) Gomed and Emerald (Gi) Emerald 


Emerald in copper or Red Coral and 
Yellow Sapphire 


Gomed and Emerald, Red Coral in copper 
plus Emerald and Blue Sapphire 


Gomed in copper plus Cat's Eye 
Gomed 

Cat's Eye, Kidney Stone (Danafarang) 
Blue Sapphire 

Emerald and Moonstone 

White coral, White Sapphire, Emerald 


Therapeutic 
Dyspepsia 
Dental problem 
Epilepsy 


use of gems 167 


Emerald 
Red Coral, Lapis Lazuli 


Emerald, Yellow Sapphire and Pearl or 
Moonstone in silver 


Erythroblastosis Foetails 
(Rh Group Incompatibility) Emerald 


Eyesight ailments 


Eczema 
Fantasies 
Fevers 
Flatulence 
Gallstones 


Giddiness 
Gout 
Haemorrhage 
Heart ailments 


Headaches 
Hernia 
Hyperacidity 
Hysteria 


Headaches, wind 


acidity 
Hepatitis 


Infections, General 


Insanity 
Insomnia 


Impotency 


Ruby 

White Coral plus Yellow Sapphire 
Onyx 

Pearl, Cat's Eye 

Emerald 


Emerald in gold plus Blue Sapphire 
preferably in punchadhatu ( metals) 


Pearl, Quartz 
Perth 
Cat's Eye 


Blue Sapphire, Turquoise, Ruby or 
Emerald or Diamond 


Blue Sapphire, Turquoise, Jade 

Red Coral in copper plus Yellow Sapphire 
In gold Emerald 

i) Amethyst and topaz 


ii) Red Coral plus Yellow Sapphire 
(5 rattis each in gold). In acute cases 
additional Moonstone 6 rattis in silver 


Haqiq 

Emerald 

Gomed 

Sapphire, Emerald plus Yellow Sapphire 


Moonstone or Emerald or Yellow 
Sapphire. 


Red Coral and Yellow Sapphire in gold. 
Amethyst 


168 


A complete book on gems 


Jaundice, liver disorder Yellow Sapphire 


Kidney ailment 


Leucorrhoea 


Leprosy (Initial stage) 
Menstrual Disorders 


Mental ailments 
Migraine 
Nervous disorder 


Osteosclerosis otitis 


media 


Paralysis 


Piles 

Pleurisy 
Pyorrhoea 

Sinus 
Schizophrenia 
Septicemia 

Skin diseases 
Spondylitis 
Stomach ulcers or 
Stomach disorders 
Stomatitis 
Tuberculosis 
Throat infections 
Vatha 

Vertigo 

Urinary disorder 


Weakness 


(i) Jade Gi) Red Coral in copper plus 
Yellow Sapphire in gold (iii) Emerald or 
rock crystal 


Turquoise 

Ruby (in copper) 

Amethyst and White Pearl or Moonstone 
Pearl or Moonstone. Topaz (golden) 
Topaz and Pearl 

Emerald, Peridot, Jade 


Ruby in gold 

(i) Amethyst (ii) Emerald plus blue 
Sapphire (iii) Red Coral and Emerald in 
gold 


Gomed Wariam stone + Pearl 
Pearl 

Gomed in silver or white metal 
Coral in copper or gold 

Emerald (psychological disorders) 
Quartz (Blood Poisoning) 

Cat's Eye, Coral, gomeda 
Labradorite 

Moonstone or Pearl Quartz, Tiger's Eye. 
Emerald 

Emerald 

Cora! and Blue Sapphire in Gold 
(i) Quartz Gi) yellow Sapphire 
Blue Sapphire 


Blue Sapphire (Neelam) 

Pearl, Diamond. Emerald, Red Coral, 
Topaz 

Turquoise 


21 


Qudraksh beads 


Rudrakshas have not only medicinal use, they have 
religious value. They have been created by none else than 
Lord Shiva. As the name suggests Rudra stands for the Lord 
and akshya means eyes. Rudraksha is a tree which bears fruits 
of various colours-red, black and mixed. The trees are 
generally found in Nepal, Malaysia and the countries of north 
Asia. The trees are of medium or dwarf size and the fruit is 
called 'Rudraksh'. Rudraksh is found to be similar to walnut 
shell. When the cover is broken or cut. Rudraksh is found 
inside. After the fruits dry up, they develop strips all around 
their masses. These have one and more faces. Faces are natural 
lines found across Rudraksh. Every Rudraksh has a specific 
purpose. 


Our religious books have mentioned the immense 
importance of the fruit. Garlands made of Rudrakshas are 
supposed to be highly auspicious and sacred. 

Rudrakshas are borne with various mouths—varying from 
one mouth to 14 mouths. When two Rudrakshas get attached 
to each other, that is called Gouri-Shankar, i.e. Lord Shiva 
and Parvati joined. That is a rare phenomenon. 


A bead is the right instrument for offering prayers to God. 
The bead of the holy Rudraksha is suitable for the purpose. 


Importance of Rudraksh 


This rosary is very auspicious and takes the wearer close 
to the Almighty. According to Hindu mythology, the use of 


170 A complete book on gems 


Rudraksha rosary means that Lord Shiva would give his 
choicest blessings upon the wearer. It has significant effect 
on our body, mind and soul and can be used for propitiation 
of advice on planetary configurations. 


It is said that once there was a daitya named Tripurasur 
who was unconquerable. Brahma, Vishnu, and other deities 
were tired of him as they were being harassed by him. Finally 
they approached Lord Shiva and requested him to help them 
to get rid of him. Lord Shiva thought of using a special fire- 
weapon named Aghor. This weapon destroyed everything. It 
is believed that it was like an atom explosion. Lord Shiva 
used that weapon to destroy Tripurasur. During the use of 
this weapon, Lord Shiva could not open his eyes and when he 
opened them they became watery, and a few drops of water 
dropped on earth. These drops later appeared in the shape of 
trees and the fruits of 38 types appeared which are now called 
Rudrakshas. Lord Shiva is known as Rudra and his tears are 
named Ashak. Hence the name Rudrakshas. Of these 
Rudraksha. 12 types have been assigned to Sun, 10 to five 
and 16 to Moon. 


Various faces 


It is believed that the smaller the size of Rudrakshas, the 
more auspicious is it. 


One-faced Rudraksha is rare and is considered to be Lord 
Shiva himself. On this, the figures of Shiva Linga, Serpent, 
Om, trishul and other auspicious marks are not found. The 
use of this Rudraksha around the neck blesses the wearer with 
authority, wealth and comforts and luxuries of life. The 
sadhaka will have darshan of his deity. It bestows supernatural 
powers and enables him to do good deeds and attain salvation. 
It is good for heart ailments also. 


The two-faced Rudraksha beads are believed to be of Lord 
Shiva and Parvati. Its use blesses the wearer with the blessings 


Rudraksh beads 171 


of both deities. For Shiva bhakti this is termed the best. To 
end tamsic habits this is greatly beneficial. The use of this is 
also good for concentration and peace of mind and upliftment 
of spiritual nature. Pregnant ladies should wear it around their 
waist or arm for the successful birth of a child. One Rudraksha 
may be kept under the pillow. It is also very useful for 
vashikaran to attract someone to your fold. The sins of the 
wearer are condoned by wearing this. 


The three-faced Rudraksha keeps one free from all types 
of bad luck. Its use is best for wealth and education. A fever 
is cured by its use after three days. Persons born in Aries, Leo 
and Saggitarius ascendants must wear this. The wearer 
becomes fiery as fire. 


The four-faced Rudraksha is ascribed to Brahma. Its use 
blesses a person with wealth and good health. One becomes 
spiritual and achieves the goal in life. Its use increases the 
intellect and power of speech. This is also used in Vashi Karan 
Akarshan (attraction) and for sexual purpose. If one boils it 
in milk and takes the milk for 20 days, it stimulates the mind 
and removes worries. 


The five-faced Rudraksha is believed to be more 
auspicious and is ascribed to Panch Brahma, and the use of 
same leads to the blessings of Lord Shiva. It indicates Moksha 
and fulfillment of all desires and keeps the wearer away from 
diseases. To remove constipation, one should place one bead 
on the umbilical and should count up to 108 and then again 
count 108 in reverse manner for 21 days and keep the bead in 
a temple. It is known as Sarv Kalyankari and Mangal Data. 


The six-faced Rudraksha is ascribed to Kartika, son of 
Lord Shiva and he is supposed to exist in those fruits. The 
male should use it on the right arm. Its use blesses the wearer 
with all comforts of life. It is specially useful to attain siddhi 
(supernatural powers) and success in business. It is also useful 


172 A complete book on gems 


for curing hysteria, epileptic fits and other diseases that afflict 
ladies. The seven-faced Rudraksha is termed as Aanat and its 
lords are Sapta Rishis. Its use blesses the native with sex 
power, respect, wealth and spiritual power. 


The eight-faced Rudraksha is ascribed to Ganesha. It 
blesses all comforts of life and removes sins arising from 
having illicit relations with women. 


The nine-faced Rudraksha is ascribed to Bhairon, Yam 
and Kapil Muni. It should be used on the left arm during 
Navaratras for getting blessing from Durga. The wearer enjoys 
wealth and family comforts, children's welfare and fulfillment 
of all hopes. 


The ten-faced Rudraksha is ascribed to Lord Vishnu 
himself. The user is protected from the malefic influence of 
all planets, evil effects of souls and becomes bold. In tantrik 
rites, it carries special importance. The person who wears it 
is safe from all tantrik attacks, and Akal Mritiyu. 


The eleven-faced bead is ascribed to Lord Indra. It is 
believed to be highly powerful, possessing eleven strengths 
of eleven deities. It should be kept in the house at the place of 
puja and in the cash box. It is specially useful for ladies, as it 
blesses them with a husband whose lifespan is long and one 
who is progressive and wealthy. It is said that after purification, 
if a lady wears it, she is surely blessed with a son. 


The twelve-faced Rudraksha is ascribed to Lord Vishnu. 
If worn in the ears, all disorders are quelled. Its wear and use 
indicates comforts, employment and blessings of all the 
deities. The fear of thieves and fire and other obstacles is 
removed. It is the best to absolve sins and is called Aditya 
Rudraksha. \ts rosary consists of 32 beads, which is equal to 
the number of teeth. 


The thirtcen-faced Rudraksha, if available and used, is 
very auspicious. It is ascribed to Vishva Devas. The user gains 


Rudraksh beads 173 


Moksha, fulfils all his desires, ambitions and is endowed with 
good health, wealth, property and comforts of life. It gives 
many types of siddhis and one can attract anybody. 


The fourteen-faced Rudraksha is very rare and is ascribed 
to Lord Shiva himself. It cures diseases, bestows all comforts 
of life and a high position, status and better luck in politics. If 
boiled in milk and drunk for 20 days, the man gets relief from 
all worries. It also removes evil effects of Saturn, and ensures 
victory over enemies. It should be worn on the head. 


