A 


GUIDE 


TO 


HINDU ASTROLOGY. 


KY 
T. S. NARAYANASWAMI TYER, 


AUTHOR OF 


Syotisha Pragyanadipa&t.. te. 


alabvas: 


PRINTED BY avpvprsow «CO., :‘MOUNT. ROAD. 


1889. 


TO THE READER. 


HE author begs to apologise to subscribers 


and the public for the delay, owing to 
“various unforeseen circumstances, in the 
appearance of this work. He is well aware that, 
even now, it is far from perfect, and will gratefully 
welcome any suggestions or corrections in order 


that the book may be improved in a second edition. 


“ONTENTS. 


Page. 
PREFACE 1 
CHAPTER LI. 
Planetary Influence 7 
CHAPTER IL. 
The Alphabet of Astrology 8 
CHAPTER _ III. 
Planetary Aspects 10 
CHAPTER | IV. 
How to fiud one's Birth: Sign 12 
CHAPTER  V. 
How to find out the sign of a particular point of time 12 
CHAPTER _ VI. 
How to erect a horoscope 17 
CHAPTER _ VII. 
How to find the precise time without clock during day or night 18 
CHAPTER VIII. 
Ofthe Twelve Houses 20 
CHAPTER IX. 
Friendship, enmity and indifference daring the conjunction or 
meeting of planets 21 
CHAPTER X. 
The various results which the different planets produce accord- 
ing to their position in the zodiac 23 
CHAPTER XI. 
Of the influence of the planets when approaching, or in conjunc- 
tion with, the signs of the zodiac 25 
CHAPTER XII. 
Description of the twelve houses indicating the strength of 
each house to be consulted in casting a horoscope 29 


11. CONTENTS. Page. 


CHAPTER XIII. 


To know whetbera horoscope is male or female . 31 


CHAPTER XIV. 
How to find Dasas, Buktis, Antrams, &c. . «631 


CHAPTER XV. 

Description of persons indicated by the signs of the zodiac 
ascending at birth, the form given by each planet in the 
twelve signs, the position of the planets and the significa- 
tions of the planetary aspects in a nativity 33 


A DEFENCE OP HINDU ASTROLOGY 125 


REMARKS ON S18. T. MADHAVA RAO'S PAMPHLETON ASTROLOGY 138 


PREFACE 


LTHOUGH Science has taken such immense 
strides of late, although it is said over and over 
again that we are living in the most intellectual age of 
the world, how little encouragement, or rather how 
much discouragement, has been given to astrology! 
The very fact that it not only exists, but also numbers 
among its votaries many aname distinguished in the 
annals of science is an incontrovertible proof that 
there is in it the vital principle of truth. 


"Give a dog abad name, and hang him" is a 
homely English proverb, but all the efforts of the 
most hostile critics have failed to eradicate popular 
belief in astrology. 

Many a modern astronomer refuses to acknow- 
ledge astrology as a true science, but is this not just 
the verification of what Faraday, that starry light of 
philosophical science, aptly designated " as presump- 
tuous judgement uniting all lovers of knowledge to 
avoid that besetting intellectual vice of the times. 


It is much to the disadvantage of astrology that 
it should be treated with so much disdain, and that 
by the very men who from their philosophical attain- 
ments, their scientific fame, and their rank and posi- 
tion in society would be naturally expected to give 
a dispassionate hearing to its just claims. 


There are, I admit, many mischievous pretenders, 
and in India, I may add, too many, who by defraud- 
ing the ignorant by pretending to predict future 
events which from their very nature are impossible, 
injure the reputation of this science; since intelli- 
gent critics very naturally avail themselves of these 
statements, and from such particular instances are 


“ PREFACE. 


only too ready to hurl their sweeping censures on 
all assertions or conclusions, valid or invalid, that 
may be drawn from the given premises. Would it 
not be equally unjust to condemn all other branches 
of science just because- there are, and from the na- 
ture of the case must be, mischievous pretenders 
among its ,professors? Originally, according to 
Josephus, astronomy. and astrology were one 
science; and it was only in the time of Kepler and 
Flamstead that they became separated in Europe. 


In India, however, from the earliest times down to 
the present day, they have been regarded as twin 
sisters. 

"" Astrology," says an eminent authority, "is that 
science which treats of the alleged correspondence 
between the position of the heavenly bodies and 
human events." 

It must, however, be remarked at the outset that 
astrology is essentially a science of tendencies. No 
doubt it is often loosely said that such and such a 
position of the planets causes sickness, wealth, or 
whatever it may be; but it is more correct to say 
that such and such a position indicates danger, good 
prospects, &c, which may or may not be actually 
realized. The simplest statement of the claims of 
the astrologer is that, given an accurately drawn 
horoscope, a certain state of human affairs can be 
inferred therefrom, which inferred state will be 
found to coincide with that actually existing at the 
time and place for which the horoscope was drawn. 


A horoscope is simply a map of the heavens at any 
given time. Generally it is a map of the heavens 
at the time of some individual's birth, but a horo- 
scope may also be drawn with reference to some parti- 
cular event. 

The horoscope gives the following information : 
the apparent position of the signs of the zodiac with 


PREFACE 3 


reference to the time and place for which the horo- 
scope is drawn, and the position of the planets with 
reference to the zodiacal signs and to one another. 
These positions must be ascertained with mathema- 
tical accuracy. The interpretation of these data 
proceeds according to certain fixed rules called 
" directions." 


Each of the planets and each of the signs are 
supposed to exert a certain "influence" of their own, 
which influence may be changed or modified accord- 
ing to their relative positions. 


Now the difficulty in all this lies in the fact that 
there is no satisfactory answer to the questions : 
Why do the planets and signs indicate this or that ? 
How were these indications first discovered ? All 
the astrologer has to reply is : Try yourself and you 
will find the "directions" hold good in actual life. 
But as astrology demands a considerable amount of 
study, and to calculate with certainty some know- 
ledge of mathematics, few take the trouble of veri- 
fying it. 


The origin of astrology is lost in antiquity. We 
find that every nation that boasted of anything like a 
civilization had its system of astrology, and, as faras 
we can gather, all the systems are practically one 
and the same. Even now there are in Europe and 
America many votaries of astrology, and it is stated 
that some of the most successful speculators never 
undertake any transaction without first consulting 
the stars. In England several astrological almanacs 
are annually published. The best of these, Zadkiel's, 
has a circulation of over a lac of copies per annum. 
The Saturday Review, July 4th, 1863, said: 
¢’ Without doubt there are a million people who hav? 
some sort of confidence in Zadkiel; certainly there 
is ample encouragement to them in the countenance 
afforded to Zadkiel by the many great and wise, and 


learned of the land." The writer also stated that 
"Society believes in Astrology." 


But we are well aware that, at the present day, 
the youngest school-boy who has crammed up a few 
science primers, must be looked upon as wiser in 
such matters than the wisest of his ancestors. 


'We therefore omit all that is said in favour of 
astrology in the records of the past, and we omit 
all mention of great men, such as Baron Napier, 
the inventor of logarithms, who have been firm 
believers in astrology, presumably, because they 
found that, on the whole, astrological predictions 
tended to be correct and confine ourselves to pre- 
senting instances of the correctness of astrological 
directions relating to recent times, and therefore 
capable of easy verification by any one who takes 
the trouble to make the necessary calculations. 


Considered merely as curious coincidences, these 
instances deserve to rank among the most remarka- 
ble ever recorded. 


Astrology is to astronomy as the grammar of 
a language is to the dictionary of that language. 
In the history of the progress of every science it is, 
therefore, easy to perceive that, though the exis- 
tence of the one implies that of the other, yet, 
astrology follows astronomy in the order of time. 


Astrology also greatly influences a man's character 
generally for good ; for supposing a man is told in 
his horoscope that at such and such a period of his 
life he is likely to be in danger of incurring the 
displeasure of the civil authorities, he is very 
cautious in his behaviour and relations to others, and 
by a particular observance of his rules and duties, 
and by placing a strict watch on every thought, 
word and deed, he very often successfully averts the 
predicted danger. 


PREFACE. 5 


The horoscope drawn up and offered you by the 
astrologer must be regarded by you as good advice 
for the guidance of your future conduct, for, as 
above affirmed, astrology is a science of tenden- 
cies, and unfavourable tendencies may be modified, 
if not entirely averted, by careful and cautious 
conduct. 


The great Gautama Sakya Muni was a profound 
astrologer; after him, among the Jains, the great 
Yavanar, Savanar, and the sage Sainya Muni are con- 
spicuous names in the annals of Hindu Astrology. 
The great eighteen sages commencing with Bramha, 
Surya, Vyasa, Vasishta, Parasara, &c, have, in a 
series of 14,50,000 volumes, almost exhausted this 
science. Of these, more than one lac of volumes 
are still extant. Subsequently the great Varaha 
Mihira Chariar, the palace astrologer of the renown- 
ed Vikramarka, added much to the pursuit of this 
science. During the prosperity of the ancient 
Hindu Pandya and Chola lines shone those brilliant 
stars named ‘Ollum Wodiyar’ and the royal Edikattar 


of Pandya. 


These were all under the special patronage of the 
sovereigns, and had the same rank and respect as 
those of the prime minister. 

In fact one of the required qualifications of the 
prime minister was that he should be a good 
astrologer. 

During the Moghul period encouragements in the 
shapes of rewards, scholarships, emoluments, &c., 
were held out to the young astrological student, 
while the successful veteran in astrology secured 
an entailed pension to himself and his heirs; many 
such pensions are still being paid by the present 
Government. These facts show that astrology was 
highly honored and eagerly sought for by the wisest 
and noblest of the land. 


0) PREFACE. 


In conclusion, the author hopes that each of his 
readers, after reading these pages with unprejudiced 
mind, will be led to take an interest in the study 
of this noble science, a science that was held in such 
high estimation by his great ancestors. It had in 
those daysthe support ofGovernment and the counte- 
nance of the sovereign, and hence no quacks were 
tolerated. Now, however, though having lost this 
external support and influence, it is a great pity that 
it should be allowed to die an ignoble death. 


In the following pages, the rudiments and general 
principles and rules of the science are set forth, and 
the author is confident that every attentive reader 
will be able, by following the directions given, to 
draw out his own horoscope for himself, and not be 
dependent on pretentious and ignorant astrologers. 


T. S.N. 
MADRAS, 
TRIPLICANE, May 1889. 


A GUIDE 
HINDU ASTROLOGY 


CHAPTER I. 


Planetary In uence. 


Influence and flux are derived from the same Latin Root 
influo to flow in upon ; hence by the term planetary influence 
is meant the flowing forth from the planets of some ethereal 
fluid to the earth. 


The immense distance of the planets from the earth is 
no valid argument *nst astrology. 


Locke says: " We are wrong to think that things contain 
those qualities that appear in them to us. Did we under- 
stand them aright, we ought, perhaps, to look for them 
beyond the fixed stars. We see certain motions and opera- 
tions in things about us, but we know not whence the streams 
come that cause them; perhaps things would, with us, put 
on a very different face did some great star or body, 
incomprehensibly remote from us, alter or cease to be." 


Have not the experiments of the great De la Rue proved 
that: “Out of an equal quantity of light incident upon the 
two bodies, Jupiter reflects fourteen times more of the 
chemical rays than the moon does” ? 


That the principal planets are those near the earth, and 
that therefore their influence must be more direct and 
powerful than the more remote ones would be readily 
granted. 


Now these planets are composed of the same elementary 
parts as our earth, and there is therefore this ethereal flow 
between them and the earth by the chemical law. 


Now the body of man is composed of various gases, and 


from his nature these gases are never quiet; they are in 
constant circulation, and he is constaytlexhaling and in- 
haling divers gases. 


8 THE ALPHABET OF ASTROLOGY. (cuap. 

The same process must, from the nature of the heavenly 
bodies, be going on among them. That all these heavenly 
bodies, along with the earth, rotate round the sun is one of 
the axioms of science: by this double rotation one around 
its own axis and one around the sun .wind is caused in 
this huge solar system of ours, and how-various in degree, 
direction, and rate must be the effect of the ethereal fluid 
passing from one to the other I 


As one among many instances of the truth of the above, 
it has been adduced that the epidemic disease called catarrh 
or influenza derived its name from the fact that it was 
always and with good reason believed that so general a 
disease could only be disseminated through the atmosphere 
from some influence beyond the earth. 


We observe strange and at present unaccountable coinci: 
dences around us. The philosophical law of all coincidences 
is that when two phenomena always coincide, they:.are either 
connected by the law of ‘cause and effect,’ orare the effects 
of a ' common cause.’ 


CHAPTER II. 


The Alphabet of Astrology. 


The Alphabet of Astrology consists of thirty-two symbols 
with which the student should make: himself familiar. 


1. The nine planets and their characters are: 


English Name. Tamil Name. 
Dragon's head Rahn. me. 
Saturn Sani. Ton, 
Jupiter ... Guru. SG: 
Mars Kujan. eRe. 
The Sun... Suriya. Guar, 
Venus Sakkran. ##€Fer, 
Mercury ... Budban. ywer, 
The Moon Chandra. 2i/fircem. 


Dragon's tail «. Kéthu. Cap. 


The positions of these planets in the firmament may be 
easily ascertained from any book on astronomy. 


11.] THE ALPHABET OF ASTROLOGY. 9 
2. The 360 degrees-ofthe zodiac circle are divided into 


twelve signs of 30 degrees each. The unchanging order of 
the signs in all nations is :— 


6 NootHegs. 


Latio names. Tamil names. English names. 
Aries... oo. Gweed. . a Hem. 
Taurus .., we) Oe. ... Baill. 

Gemini ... - Woes. «.- a =©T wine. 
Cancer ... . éietau. v (Grab. 

_ oon Wcenen, . .. Lion. 
Virgo ... <2 cereal. . Virgin. 

§ SouTgenn. 

Libra... oon peut a, ait ... Soales, 
Scorpio... . Githes, .. . Scorpion. 
Sagitteriag ... see. ae vee Archer. 
Capncorn coe ROR ED oui .. He-goat. — 
Aquanus + Mu. + ... Water-carrter. 
Pisces... .. =e, = . Fish. 


It will thus be ceen that the nomenclturecf Western as- 
trology coincides withthe time-honored one of curgreat San- 
ecrit Lsiskine—ercdlne overwhelming proof of the con- 
clusiondrawn by philologists that Weataro literature received 


jts impulse from the East. 

3. "The differences of longitada called aspects are :— 

Conjunction or parallel, when tro or mere besvanly 
bodies have the same longitude, aud ranging from 0° to 8° 
inclusive. 
 *B.8 the Semisaztila when their differance of longitude 
is 30 degrees (Bhaghas) or 1 sigu (Gerh), is always good, 
and ranging from 9° to 30° inclusive. 

8. or the Sami-equare or Semi-guartile or forty-five de- 
grees or 14 mgns, ic alwaye bod, and ranging from 31°to 45° 
Inclusive. 

. The Quintile 72° or two signs and twalve degrees, 
(Bhagas) is slightly good and ranges from 61° to 72° in- 


a — ae, 


* The fertile, whea their difervuce of longiiade is sixty degrees or 
bere aigta, je aheype good, nud vaugiqe from 16-12 0* ielosive. 


10 PLANETARY ASPECTS. [CHAP . 
The Square 90° or three signs, is always evil and ranges 
from 73° to 90° inclusive. 


The Trine 120° or four signs, is always good and ranges 
from 91° to 130° inclusive. 


The Sesquiquadrate 135° or 4 | signs is always evil ; and 
ranges from 131° to 135° inclusive. 


Opposition (180°) or 6 signs.is always evil, and ranges 
from 136° to 180° inclusive. 


CHAPTER III. 


Planetary Aspects. 


. MAJOR ASPECTS. 

1. From 0° to 8° aud 353° to 360°. Very good & very 

powerful. 

» 9°- 30° and 331 °—852°. Always good. 

3. ,, 31°- 45° and $16°—330°. Alternately goodand 
bad. 

4. ,, 46°— 60° and 301°—815°. Always good. 

5. 5, 61°— 72° and 289°—300°. Very bad and slight- 
ly good. 

6. 4, 73°- 90° and 271°—288°. Entirely had. 

7. 45 91°—120° and 241°——270°. Always good. 

8 

9 


bu 


i 121°—135° and 226°—240°. Always bad. 
» 136°—144°and 217°—225°. Slightly good, very 
bad. 
10. ,, + 145°—216° Very bad. 
Minor ASPECTS. 

1. 4, 22°- 25° and 336°—340°. Bad. 
2. 45 96°-100° and 249°—254°. Good. 
3. 4, 195°—208° and 170°—180°. Slightly good. 
These degrees should be reckoned from the number of 


degrees each planet is from others, independently of the 
signs of the zodiac. 


ITI. ] PLANETARY ASPECTS. 11 


The six southern signs of the zodiac, commencing from 
Libra downwards, correspond respectively with their oppo- 
site signs thus. 


The first aspect or position is the conjunction, which 
is when two or more planets are in the same sign, and the 
nearer they are to each other the more powerful becomes 
the aspect, and it is most powerful when these planets are in 
the same degree. This holds good «with all the aspepts. 
For instance, let Jupiter be in Taurus six degrees, and the 
Sun in Aries twenty-eight degrees; now from Aries twenty- 
eight degrees to Tanras six degrees is (30—28) or 2+6 8, 
gad therefore the sun would he approaghing Conjunction 
with Jupiter. 


It must, however, be bornein mind that Conjunction is not 
#8 pomerfol when separating as when applying or approach- 
ing within eight degrees, the limit of separation. 


The Moon applies to or approaches all the planets because 
it is the swiftest in motion. Mercary and Venus approach 
all the other planets except the Moon. Similarly each of 
the other planets approaches all the other planets except the 
preceding. Their order is 1. The Moon. 2. The Sun. 3. Mer- 
cury. 4. Venus. 5. Mars. 6. Jupiter. 7. Dragon's head and 
tail. 8. Saturn. Each of these planets approaches or 
applies to all the remaining ones after it in the order noted. 
Thus the Moon applies to all the other eight planets, the 
Sun to the remaining seven, Mercury to the remaining six, 
and so on. 


It must also be noted carefully that the above planetary 
aspects imply a knowledge of astronomy and ofthe names 
and positions of the planets. Now in casting a horoscope 
the first thing to be done is to draw #map of the heavens 
with the several planets in it at,the time of;birth. Hav- 
ing done this, we should next see what points require to be 
ascertained. Suppose for example A desires to know what 
wid the Sun can give him. As will be seen afterwards, the 
Sun has power over .our prospects for good, unless its influ- 
ence is.modified by the bad aspects of other planets. We 
must, therefore, see how many other planets give good influ- 
ence and how many bad. Then, ascertaining which influ- 
ence is in the majority, A’a worldly prospects will he in the 
,ascendant or descendant according asthe (influence of the 
good is in the majority or minority. 


CHAPTER IV. 


How to nd one's birth sign. 


In order to find ont one's birth sign, find out, first, the 
sign in which the sun happens to he at the time of birth. 
Find ont then what degrees and_minntes the sun has spent 
in that sign with reference to the time of birth. Add to 
those degrees and minutes the degrees and minutes com- 
prised under Ayanamsakalas.* The sign whichis obtained 
" >y the degrees and minutes resulting from this addition 
should he sought out, and the degrees and minutes of that 
sign should he deducted from the total number of degrees 
and minutes, and this remainder should be multiplied by 
the sw ‘a mana vinadis or Indian minutes, and_ this 
again should be divided by 30. The quotient so got will 
be so many vinadis which the sun has to spend in that sign, 
that is, in that in which he happened to be at the time of 
birth. 


CHAPTER V. 
How to nd out the sign of a particular point of time. 


If you wish to find out the sign ofa certain hour ona 
certain day, convert the time from sunrise of that day up to 
the moment in question into vinadis or Indian minutes, sub- 
tract therefrom the number of Indian minutes which the 
snn has to spend in the sign in which he happens to he at 
the time (finding this latter as per directions ahove), and, 
from the remainder thus obtained, go on subtracting the 
number of minutes belonging to each successive sign fromtha 
of the sun himself, until you come to that sign the minutes o 
which cannot he anhtracted That sign will be the one be- 
longing to the particular point of time in question. Thes 
minntes should then he multiplied by 30, and the result h 
divided by the total number of minutes of that sign. Th 
quotient will give the degree in that sign in which the per- 


*Ayanameakala ia found by subtracting 3,600 years from the tota 
nomber of yeara passed since the beginning of Kaliyuga, multiplying the 
remainder by 9, and dividing the result by 10, the qngHent thus obtained 
must be taken to be so many minutes. 


HOW TO FIND ODT THE SIGN OF A PARTICULAR TIME. = 13 


son is born. The remainder, if left, should be multiplied by 
60, and the result divided again by the total number of mi- 
nutes of that sign. The quotient thus got will give the mi- 
nutes, then subtract from the degrees and minutes of birth 
thus obtained the degrees and minutes of Ayanamsakalas ; 
the remaining degrees and minutes will be those in which 
the person is actually born. 


Note down accurately to a second, if possible, the time of 
birth; ascertain the respective positions of each planet at that 
time, noting exactly the number of degrees and minutes. 


Zadkiel's or any similar correct Almanac will furnish the 
necessary information. 


Arrange the planets as situated at the time of birth accord- 
ing to their degrees, minutes, seconds, &e.,in their respective 
places in the twelve signs of the zodiac. The twelve signs 
of the zodiac make one complete revolution in one day or 
twenty-four hours. Ineach month one or other of the twelve 
zodiacal signs corresponds with the rising of the sun. 


The sun enters Aries on or about the 12th of April every 
year (in Tamil Chittirai). To again appear at the same point 
in Aries,after successively passing throu h all the signs, the 
sun takes 365 days 6 hours 12°30". T is period is called 
one year. 


Table A. 


The time in which the #un rises in each of the signs is as 
follows : 
Days. Hours. Min. Sec. Months. 


Aries es as. “30 22 12 48 in Chittirai. 
Taurus “ ve. oll 9 40 48 Vykasi. 
Gemini “ - 31 14 39 12 Aunee. 
Cancer . ee | 11 16 48 Audi. 

Leo Bs i | fae a2 «« Avani. 
Virgo id in ov 10 56 48 Purattasi. 
Libra - Te ane 21 38 48 Ippasi. 
Scorpio —.. wm 229 12 9 36 Karthigai. 
Sagittarius - 29 8 21 12 Margaili. 
Capricorn + 29 10 54 24 Thye. 
Aquarius . 29 19 21 36 Masi. 

P'1a ces * 30 8 8 30 =Panguni. 


Total... 365 6 12 30 


14 TABLE OF INDIAN Tig, [CHAP. 


Table B. 
Period of time during which each house or sign of the 
zodiac is in the ascendant. The time is given according 
to the meridian of Lanka or Ceylon. 


1. Aries is in the ascendant for — 255 Indian Min. 
Be TATU. 2 os bccdhadeceisinsees — 285 do. 
3. Gemini.......................: — §815 do. 
A “CANCEL <3 encea ce dayeadesesent + 330 do. 
Ds. L6G) oconceaucdesadadnute wane? + 815 do. 
De Wire mesh 52535) ecndatde ree ee + 800 do. 
De. EADCR: 5 oosce Gauvicles occ decisested + 300 do. 
Oo WCOIOs. contest siete + .815 do.. 
D.. DACUMALIUG 6 65 oak ceed de nc og Me + 880 do. 
10. Capricom.......................815 do. 
11. Aquarius. ...........6.6.06..0%4 e- 285 do. 
V2e PISCOSoiccscvccddscawascaan cs Ae — 255 do. 


Total... 8600 do. 


N.B. When a minus sign (—) is prefixed the meaning is 
that the sign is negative, and, as will be seen below, the 
number must be subtracted. Conversely plus (+) indj- 
cates that the sign is positive, and the number must be ad- 
ded. 


Table of Indian Time. 


& Breathe wake coo Indian minute. 
60 Ind. mio. make one Ind. bour or Naligai. 
G0 Ind. houra= 1 day or 24 Enoghash hours. 
:.60 Ind. hours =24 English hours. 
. 2¢Ind. min. = 1] Enghah on. 
& 2)Ind.hours= 1 English boar. 


To compare the corresponding time when each house is in 
the ascendant in other places, the following rule must be 
observed. 

First, on a perfectly level surface, fix a perpendicular rod 
one foot long marked off into twelve inches, in the months 
of Chittirai or Ippisi, when bhe sun isin the Zenith. Draw. a 
line in the direction of tliisline from the foot of the perpendicu- 
lar and in the plane on which the perpendicular falls, of equal 
length to the perpendicular, and also marked off into twelve 
inches. Ascertain the exact distance to the fraction of an 
juch to which the shadow falls when the sun is in the zenith. 


V.] HOW TO FiQD QUT TBS SIGN OF A PARTICULAR TIME. 15 


Now this quantity is the constant common factor for the re- 
quired place. 


To find the correct time of the required place in each 
house, multiply thecommon factor by 20 Ind. min. or Vinadis 
for Ist, Ath, 7th and 10th signs from Aries. 


By 16’ for the 2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th signs from Aries. 
By 6$,’for the 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 12th signs from Aries. 


Now add or subtract the quantities obtained, according as 
the signs are positive or negative. 


Suppose that the shadow at Cuddalore is 2% inches 
at noon in Chittirai. For the Ist, 4th, 7th and 10th signs 
multiply 24 by 20. 


Now the exact time for Ist or Aries will be 255 Ind. min. 
- (20 x2)or 255-50 or 205 Ind. min. 


Similarly for the 4th sign or Cancer it would be 380 4- 50 
or 880 Ind. min. 


And so on to determine all the other houses. This will give 
the correct time of the required place (Cuddalore for in- 
stance) when each house is in the ascendant. 


Having done this, find out on that date how many days 
the sun has spent since entering that house, and the 
precise time he has yet to spend in that house from table A. 


Ascertaining by our tables the total number of min. the 
Sun remains for the total number of days in that sign, find 
Cut the particular number of min. the Sun will yet remain 
for the remaining number of days in that sign. If during 
the remaining number of minutes a person is born, then 
he is said to be born in that sign. The sign under which 
he is born will be the same as that in which the Sun is. 
If the hour of birth exceeds the number of min., ascertain 
from the given tables to what sign the number of min. 
will is the sign in which he is born. 


Erample, “7 BUpbose a child is born on April 18th, 1888, 
at 2-15 P.M., in Ceylon. That month the Sun enters Aries 
on or about the 12th. Out of 80 days 22 hours, 12' 48" 
the Sun has still about 29 days more to stay in Aries from 
the time of birth, 2,¢., the 18th. According to our table, for 


16 HOW TO FIND ‘“OUT-THE 8IGN OF "A PARTICULAR TIME. 


about 29 days in Aries the Sun will therefore remain f % of 
225' or about 2464' at the time of birth, the Sun having 
paseed 8 hours and 15' since dawn, i.e. 20%Ind. hrs. or 
1,23873 Ind. min. Now take that 2464 min. and add the 
next period, viz., Taurus’s which is 285 min. This too being 
exhausted, add the next period, 815’, which is Gemini's. 
Even this is insufficient ; next add Cancer's 330'; this too is 
insufficient, for these four signs give a total of 11764 Ind. 
min.; we have still 61 Ind. min: in Leo. Hence Leo is 
the sign of his birth. Similarly proceed for every other 
sign. 

“Gsample— Suppose you have to find out the sign of birth 
of a person born in Kaliyoge 4964. Rodréthkari on the 15th 
day of Vaikasi at about 12 Naligaia from daybreak. The 
Sun being in the month of Vaikasi in the sign called 
‘Vriahsbham—Tauros—l4° 38* add tothia the Ayanam- 
sakela of that year, ¢2.,4964. It gives 20° 26. The sm 
total ia 35°4"; deducting 80° of the sign in which the aun 
ia, the reminder ia § 4. This must be multiplied by the 
total nomber of minutes for Taurus, which ia 299. 4 
x 299==1196", divi ete 60: ie = 1948 or 20°.  Simi- 
larly 5 x 299 =A = 24 rf = 25°. Subtract thia 25° 


20' from 30° the puniialin 4 ia 4°40 or 280’. 12 Noaligaia 
which have expired from daybreak give 720". Deduchnug 
from thie 290’, the remainder ia 440." Thia 440 should be 
carried until it reaches ‘the sign whose minutes cannot 
be subtracted therefrom. Thos, the minutes of the next 
mign being $22, we get 112 remaining efter that sign. Aa 
the total nom ber of minutes of Cancer ara in exceas of 118", 
the sign of birth of the person 19 Cancer. 


“at order to find out the precise deg. and minutes in thia 
a (te) Cancer, thia 118 if shield a multiplied by 30, 


W hich gives 3,640", and divided by the tote! ou number of 
minutes of Danereentkish. j ia $22. ¢ Thoa 2 — 10° 
giving a remsinder of 320, which again ‘ghoul Ge am multi - 
plied by 60=820 x60 YR’ = 59, leaving ont the amall 
eo Therefore the a question ia born in Cancer 
at | 


# This is adcording be khe most correct Almanan '“—i 
+ according tothe Grades Mana Vintdis in Coimbatore 


CHAPTER VI. 


How to erect a horoscope. 


There are various forms of this diagram, and it is not 
material which is selected. 


wus HOW TO FEND THE TIME WITHOUT CLOCK, &C. 19 


‘Padas-chayatand add 7 to the remainder. Then take 
one-half of the Ah as { of the day, multiply it by 7, and 
divide the result by the abovesaid length of your shadow. 

The quotient will give so many Indian hours. The 
remainder, if any, should be multiplied by 60, and divided 
by the same length of your shadow ; the quotient thus got 
will be so many Indian minutes. 


During night :—Thestars from which the time during 
night is to be calculated are twenty-seven in number begin- 
‘ning from Asvaniand ending with Revatt. From = Chithirai 
up ft four months, that is np to Adi, calculate from Pusam 
(inclusive) the number of ttarsa that lead up to the star in the 
‘ascendant oh the particular night including that also, and 
multiply that number by 2} and subtract therefrom for 
‘every month that has passed since Chithirai the number, 5,— 
that is, if 3 months have passed from Chithirai—the first 
‘month—the number to be deducted is 5 x 3= 15; in thi 
the month fu which the time is required to be found shoul 
be excluded. If Chithirai is the month iu which the tim 
is required, then nothing need be deducted as that is th 
first month 
; Hor each day in the giveu month, subtract 10 Vinadi 
or Indian minutes 
.., With regard to the next four months, that is from Awani 
to Karthigai,the process to be followed is the same excep 
that the number of stars to be calculated up to the oue i 
the ascendant should be calculated from Anusham. Simi- 
larly for the next four months from Uthirattatht. Desa. 
Mana Vinadis or Indian minutes arrived at with regard t 


Similarly for Gemini and Libra:— for the Ist 10 degrees 1 foot, 
for the "2nd 10 degrees 1% ft-, for the 3rd 10 degrees 2 
,;Bor Cancer and Pisces : :—for the Ist 10° 2 ft., for the 2nd 10° 11 ft, 


‘for the 3rd 10° 1 ft 
For Scorpio:—for the Ist 10° 2 ft., for the 2nd 10° 2! ft, for the 


3rd 10° 3 ft. 
‘Sagittarius :—for the Ist 10° 3 ft, for the 2nd 10% 3? ft, for th 


3rd 10° 4 ft. 
Capricorn :—forthe Ist 10° 4 ft. for the 2nd 10° 3% ft. for the 3rd 


10° ny ft. 
i oor arius:—for the Ist 10° 3 ft., for the 2nd 10° 2i ft., for the 3rd 


demacsiea is that part of the shadow ofa person which belongs 
ta his feet, and it is always half a foot. 

"J This is the time between sun-rise and sun-set. This is usually 
known by referring to a correct almanac. 


20 OF THE TWELVE HOUSES. [CHAP. 


each of the twelve signs of the zodiac, must be referred to 
each country. The vinadis for one ae im one country will 
not be the same for that sign in another country. 


CHAPTER VIII. 


Of the twelve houses. 


We have up to this been treating of the signs of the 
zodiac, and the planets and their positions and influences in 
the signs of the zodiac. We shall now proceed to note the 
influences of the planets in the houses in a horoscope. The 
house of birth is always reckoned as the first house. Now 
every fourth house, taking the birth house as the first, is 
the angle house, /Sanscrit, Kendra). So these angle houses 
or Kendras must be four in number, namely the first, 
fourth, seventh and tenth houses. 


When good planets occupy these positions they produce 
great good. When bad planets occupy them they produce 
great calamity. 


If Jupiter is the owner of the fourth, seventh, or tenth 
house, the result is very bad; if Venus is the owner, it is 
three-fourths bad. If Mercury is the owner, it is half bad. 
If any ‘of the remaining six planets be the owner, the result 
is very good. 


There is, however, a special point with regard to the 
angles or Kendra positions. When Sun, Mars or Ketu are 
in the tenth house, the influence is for good ; their natural 
power indicated in page 28 is increased. When Mercury 
or Jupiter si m the first house, the same result follows. 
When Saturn or Rahu is in the seventh house, the same 
result follows. Venus or Moon being in the fourth house, 
the same result follows. 


The second, fifth, eighth and eleventh houses are called 
the Succedent houses (Sanscrit Pannapara). When good 
planets are in the first two succedent or Pannapara houses, 
they give a good prospect, and bad planets give a bad 
prospect. 


Again when bad planets are in the second two succedent 
houses (viz., 8th and 11th), they give good prospects. And 
when good planets-are in the second two succedent houses, 


VIII] FRIENDSHIP, ENMITY AND INDIFFERENCE, &C. 2t 


they give ahad prospect. The third, sixth, ninth and twelfth 
houses are called Gadent houses t Sanscrit, Apocleema). 
The same rule applies as to the Succedent houses. Planets 
in the Kendra or Angles within 10° are most powerful and 


give good fortune. For the remaining 20° they give 
moderate good. 


In the succedent or Pannapara from 10° to 20° planets 
give the same influence as stated above. 

In the Apocleema or Cedent houses from 20° to 380° 
planets give their own influence. 


Therefore, in calculating the tendency of a horoscope, 
note down the meaning of the twelve houses (Sanscrit 
Bhavas) and of each of the nine planets. 


Again the Suu and moon are lights, luminaries. 
Rahu and Ketu, Saturn and Mars, are malefics or bring 
misfortunes. Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, bring good fortune. 


All further particulars about the planets can be ascer- 
tained from the tables at the end of the book. 


CHAPTER IX. 


Friendship, enmity and indifference during the 
conjunction or meeting of planets. 


A.—FRIENDLY CONJUNCTIONS. 


The conjunction of Moon, Mars and Jupiter with the 
Sun. 

do. Mercury and the Sun with the Moon. 

do. Jupiter, Moon and Sun with Mars. 

do. Venus and Sun with Mercury. 

do. | Sun, Moon and Mars with Jupiter. 

do. Saturn and Mercury with Venus. 

do. Mercury and Venus with Saturn. 

do. Mercury and Venus with Rahu. 

do. Jupiter with Ketu. 


SYPP SP ss 


22 


L. 


aon fh 


FRIENDSHIP, ENMITY AND INDIFFERENCE, &C. [CHAP. 


B.—Inim1caL CONJUNCTIONS. 
Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Ketuy in conjunction with 


the Sun. 
Rahu and Ketu do. do. Moon. 
Mercury do. do. Mars. 
Moon do. do. Mercury. 
Mercury and Venus do. do. Jupiter. 
Jupiter, Sun, Moon do. do. Venus. 
Sun and Moon do. do. Saturn. 
Sun, Moou and Venus do. Rahu and Ketu.. 


C.— PLaneEts OF EQUAL INFLUENCE WHEN IN CONJUNCTION. 


Ps 


CaN DAR wh 


Mercury with the Sun. 

Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, or Venus with the Moon. 
Saturn or Venus with Mars. 

Saturn, Mars, or Jupiter with Mercury. 

Saturn with Jupiter. 

Mars or Jupiter with Venus. 

Jupiter with Saturn. 

Saturn with Rahu. 

Mars with Ketu. 


N.B.—Ifinthe horoscope of a certain person there should 
be any of these plauets of equal strength in the same house, 
each will give its respective strength independent of the 


rest. 


D.—ResPkcTivE SUPERIORITY OR INFERIORITY OF THE 


DIAAEON — 


PLANETS. 


Mercury is inferior in strength to all the planets. 
Mars is superior to Mercury. 
Saturn is superior to Mars. 


Jupiter do. Saturn. 
Venus do. Jupiter. 
Moon do. Venus. 


The Sun is superior to the Moon. 
Rahu and Ketu) do. the Sun. 


When any superior planet is in conjunction with any in- 
ferior planet in the same house, the superior planet takes 
away the strength of the inferior one, and itself produces 
the good or bad results which the inferior planets are 
capable of producing. When the good planets mentioned 
above areinthe third, sixth, eighthortwelfth house from the 


X.] RESULTS OF DIFFERENT PLANETS EM THE ZODIAC. 23 


house of the sign at birth, they produce evil. In any of 
the remaining eight houses they produce the highest good. 
The bad planets in any of the above houses’ will produce 
an opposite effect to that produced by the good time of 
birth in the house in which each planet comes. 


When the above planets are in favourable positions and 
when the majority are powerful, then the influence indicated 
nuder each plauet is favourable. When however they are 
in Opposite positions, and when only a minority is favourable 
and the majority unfavourable, the nature of thnt star and 
house will have all the influences indicated above tending 
to the worse. 


The independent nature of the planets is as follows: — 

1. Sun is the soul, the life. 2. The Moon is the body. 
Hence in every horoscope both of these must be favour- 
able, since the one is essential for the existence of the other. 
Both of these therefore control the five elements, viz., fire, 
air, earth, Ac. 3. Mars is fiery. 4. Mercury airy. 5. 
Jupiter earthy. 6. Venus watery. 7. Saturn ethereal. 
If in a horoscope the planets in the same house are natural- 
ly opposed to one another, then the effect is injurious to the 
horoscope. 


In finding out the influences of planets from the horoscope, 
the influences of planets must be considered according to the 
form B. No. I in my Aryan Astrology, when calculating 
the influences of planets standing between the zodiacs 
1 to 6; but when calculating the influences of planets 
standing between the zodiacs 7 to 12, the influences of 
planets must be considered according to the form B. No. II. 


CHAPTER X. 


The various results which the differentblanets produce ac- 
cording to their position in the zodiac :— 

1. Sun.—Givesan inclination to worship the god 
"Siva," gives inheritance to paternal property,causes health 
or sickness in the body, gives information about Govern- 
ment employment, gives fame, spirit and heroism, incites 
to travel in forests and on hills, incites to offer sacrifices 
and to make penance, tells about venereal diseases, causes 
ficklemindedness, causes head-ache and_ fever, indicates 
immobility, creator, central region, roundness, diseases of 
the chest. Kshatrya,red colour, masculine, moderate stature, 
great heat. 


24 RESULTS OF DIFFERENT PLANETS IN THE ZODIAC. [CHAP. 


2. Moon.—Makesone believe that there is only one true 
God, treats of the mother's family, acquires favour of great 
men, indicates health or ill-health of body, bathing and 
cleanliness, use of spices and perfumes, flowers and use of 
princely fans, swords, fruits, fame, pearls, silver, sweet 
things, milk, clothes, meals, beauty, wandering, biliousness, 
cold, Vaisya caste, whiteuess, shortness, patience, rapid 
rotation, body, south-eastern’ direction, square-shaped 
shoulders. 


3. Mars.—Land,brothers and sisters, sudden death, 
marriage, worship of Durga, heroism, spiritedness, battle, 
hatred, thieving, inventing new things, debt, pleasure, 
courage, military command, small-pox, gold, cousins, enemy, 
piles, Kshatrya caste, rubies, shortness, southern-direction, 
fiery, triangular. 


4. Mercury.—Worshipf Vishnu, philosophy, education, 
maternal grandfather, maternal uncle, eloquence, sacred 
study, skill, intelligence, sacrifices, ceremonial duties apper- 
taining to Vishnu, truthfulness, the neck, sculpture, trading, 
engraving, comicality, childlessness, Vaisya or trading class, 
green colour, tall, firmand rapid, sculptor, painter, engraver. 


5. Jupiter.—Coldind bilious sickness, mentality, self- 
restraint, appreciation, the eight siddhis, religious teacher, 
initiator, veda (srati and smriti), sudgati=enjoyment of 
heaven, godliness (deva), Brahmanism, strict observer of 
religious rules,worship of goddess Brahma or Gayatri,acquir- 
ing the favour of or propitiating the goddesses, comforts of 
viceroyalty, equal to the king, becoming king, though tful- 
ness, law (Dharmasastra), flatulence, a judge, having sons, 
wealth, broad-chested, mental sickness, yellow complexion, 
masculine, North, oblong, horses, carriages. 


6. Venus.—Prosperitxwealth, children, etc.), vehicles, 
cloths, prison, treasure-trove, face, all kinds of comforts, 
longing for pleasures, voyages and ships, diamond trade, 
building temples, acquiring favour from a goddess, worship- 
ping a goddess in its peculiar language, thoughtfulness, 
pleasure, diabetes. Brahmin caste, white colour, feminine, 
moderate stature, watery, East, figure of a pentagon, crea- 
tive power. 


7. Saturn.—Eaterof flesh, meanness, drunkenness, 
improvement of buffalo breed, debt, slavery, cultivation, 


XL] INFLUENCE OF PLANETS AND SIGNS OF ZODIAC, &. 25 


punishment from Government, theft, length or shortness of 
life, foreign travel, convert to another caste, defective 
limbs, speaking against religious law, diseased legs, 
childlessness, heat in the body, dropsy, sin, diabetes, bilious- 
ness, madness, Sudra caste, blue colour, short, firm and rapid, 
air, West, crescent shaped, thigh, motion by air and by 
steam, mining, iron manufactures, chemist, legerdemain. 


8. Rahu (Dragon’s head), grandfather (paternal), fear 
of prison, salvation, power of wandering through and enjoy- 
ing the pleasures of the seven heavens, emigration, punish- 
ment from Government, war, danger from a sinking ship, 
fear of water accidents, leader of thieves, loss of caste, 
doing what he ought not to do, speaking like a buffoon, 
defect in limbs, loss ofa limb in battle, wounds, small-pox, 
cold, flatulence, disease of sides of belly, bilious cold, faint- 
ing, convulsions, tolerance, black colour, tall stature. 


9, Kétu.—(Dragon’s tail), loss of presence of mind, 
paleness from poorness of blood, leprosy, belly-ache, study 
of philosophy, relieves all want, without desire, mother's 
family, ulcers, fear from fire, licking the body, doing mean 
things, death by fire, catastrophe, living in a foreign country, 
perpetrating sinful things, eating flesh and drinking; sel- 
fishness, arrogance, poverty, sorrow, imprisonment, bonds, 
strangulation. 


10. The Planet called the son of Saturn Gulika (specially 
used in Travancore, &c.) Funeral rites, treasure-trove, skins 
or leather, gold, finding things under ground, hatred, cause 
of death, killing animals, charms to kill men or animals 
(witchcraft), life in a monastery (matham), life, death, sel- 
fishness. 


CHAPTER XI. 


Of the influence of the planets when approaching, or in 
conjunction with, the signs of the zodiac. 
As considered in themselves, apart from the planets, the 
nature of the zodiacal signs is aa foll ows. 
These are Trigons, the four triplicities. 


26 INFLUENCE OF PLANETS AND SIGNS OF ZODIAC, &C. [CHAP. 


1. Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius, fiery. 

2. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, earthy. 
3. Gemini, Libra and Aquarius, airy. 

4. Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces, watery. 


When planets of an opposite nature to the abovemen- 
tioned elements approach, or are in conjunction with, the 
zodiacal sign of the horoscope, bad results are indicated : but 
when sympathetic planets occur the results are favourable. 


When a planet is retrograde, (Sanskrit Vakkrum) or 
moving backwards in the zodiac, as from Taurus to Aries, it 
has the influence and properties, not of the house in which 


it is moving, but of the preceding house, i.e., the house it 
has left. 


There are five things to be considered in order to know 
the respective strengths of each planet. (1) Highest posi- 
tion. (2) Lowest position. (3) Ownership. (4) Friendship. 
(5) Enmity. All these correspond to the five elements. The 
highest position corresponds to the earth, ownership to 
water, friendship to tejas (fire), enmity to wind, lowest 
position to ether. These things are useful to know in indi- 
cations of death, etc. 


I. Highest position is indicated when— 

The Sun is in Aries or Mesham in 19°. 
The Moon in Taurus in 3°. 

Mars in Capricorn in 28°. 

Mercury in Virgo in 15°. 

Jupiter in Cancer in 15°. 

Venus in Pisces in 27°. 

Saturn in Libra in 21°. 

Rahu and Ketu in Scorpio in 21°. 


Il. Lowest Position : — 


CONIDARWY 


The seventh house from each of the highest positions is 
said to be the lowest position of that house, but they corre- 
spond respectively in degrees. 


III. Ownership is indicated when 


The Sun is in Leo in 11°. 

The Moon in Cancer in 9°. 

Mars in Aries and Scorpio in 14°. 
Mercury in Gemini and Virgo in 21°. 
lupiter in Sagittarius and Pisces in 19%. 
Venus in Taurus and Libra in 12°. 


AnPWNe 


XL] INFLUENCE OF PLANETS AND SIGNS OF ZODIAC, &C. 27 


7. Saturn in Capricorn and Aquarius in 26° 
8. Rahu in Capricorn in 26. 
9. Ketu in Aries in 14°. 


Astrologers and astrological works of all lands exactly 
agree with regard to the position of the planets that 
indicate Highest Position, Lowest Position and Ownership, 
but they differ considerably with reference to Friendship 
and Enmity. 


To explain them, I give an account of them on a separate 
basis and from separate calculations. 


Before the calculation of friendship is made, Mula triko- 
nam, or the triangular position should be clearly compre- 
hended. Mula trikonam is the proper place of each planet in 
the sign in which it is mostpowerful, thoughnot more so than 
when each isinits own house. These are called tha mula- 
trikonamor exaltation of the planets. First then we should 
ascertain the mula trikonam of each planet, as shown be- 
low: — 


1. The Sun in Leo is the triangular or mula trikonam 


position for the sum......................... sone a 
2. The Moon in Taurus.................00..000 00000000 , 6° 
3, Mars in APiés.... 2.00.02 x 2 
4. Mercury in Virgo......0.0.0 0.0.0.0 cece cece vets yp UNE 
5. Jupiter in Sagittarius.............................. , 
Os. PV CHUS WN TAOR GE oii ivcccicdtncdin docs wpterwncacidnle base » «(O" 
7. SuturvinAguarius............0..0..0.00.00.00000.. ~ Ie 
8. Rahu and Ketu in Scorpio.......................... ss. LY? 
It should be clearly borne in mind that if each of the 


abovementioned planets is not in its specified mula tri- 
kona position, but in the second, fourth, sixth, ninth, tenth, 
or eleventh house from the above specified mula _trikona 
position, they are powerful for evil even among these six; 
the particularly evil houses are :— 


For the Sun all except the ninth. 


For Mars - iy » fourth and tenth. 
For Mercury ,, » tenth. 

For Jupiter all except ‘the second and fourth. 

For Saturn _,, - , the ninth. 


The remaining houses from the mula trikona position, 


28 INFLUENCE OF PLANETS AND SIGNS OF ZODIAC, &. 


namely the third, fifth, seventh, eighth, and twelfth are 
moderately favourable. 


Even among these five moderately favourable houses, 


For the Sun all except the third house are moderately fa- 


vourable. 
For the Moon © ;, , third and seventh 
For Mars si » eighth 
For Jupiter 5 » ninth 
For Venus » eighth and twelfth 
For Saturn 31 the third and twelfth 
For Rahu and Ketu’ ,, the seventh st 


The influence of the particular houses excepted above for 
each planet is specified in page 29. 


All these tables will enable the student to understand the 
strength of each planet. 


OrTHE USUAL stBENGTH OF £ACH PLANET FOR GOOD OK FOE 
EVIL 1# A PERSON BE BORN. 


First in the white moon, i.e., when the moon is in its growth. 
Both Jupiter and the Moon give full good. 


Venus three-fourths of Jupiter’s good; Mercury _ half; 
Saturn and Rahu full bad ; Ketu and Mars three-fourths of 
the evil of Saturn ; and Mercury gives half. 


Secondly, in the case of a person born in the black moon, 
i.e., when moon is in the wane, the influences given above are 
directly opposite, i.e. for ‘good’read 'bad' and vice versa. 


Now if you wish to ascertain any particular point aa— 


I. Employment, Marriage, &c, first refer to Chapter XL 
A, B and C, to find which planet is able to give that infor- 
mation ; fromthe horoscope of the enquirer ascertain in what 
house of his horoscope the planet stands, and what other 
planets are in conjunction with it or arc approaching it, and 
the aspects mentioned in Chapter B on the nature of the 
aspects. See how many of these are good. The result will 
be a favorable or an unfavorable tendency according to the 
majority or minority of the good planets. 


CHAPTER XII. 


Description ofthe twelve houses indicating the strength 
of each house to be consulted in casting a horoscope- 


I. or the house in which a person is born, gives 1, Com- 
plexion. 2, Strength ofbody. 3, Head and belly. 4, The 
five intellectual senses and the five physical senses. 
§, Memory. 6, Mental anxiety. 7, Fame and Travelling. 
8, Religion. 9, Pleasure. 10, Happiness. 11, Length of 
age. 12, Whether human birth or otherwise. 


II. The next house to the house of birth gives, 1, Family 
and relations. 2, Wealth. 3, Eyes. 4, Education and 
learning. 5, Landed property. 6, Truthfulness. 7, Know- 
ledge of sastras (Scripture) in general. 8, Poetical com- 
position. 9, Intentions. 10, Gold coin. 11, The nine 
kinds of Gems. 12, Practice of yoga. 


III. House (1), Voluptuousness, (2) Servants, (3) Music, 
(4) Valour, courage, (5) Brothers and sisters, (6) Ears, (7) 
Pain in ears, (8) Vessels in which food is taken, (9) Religion 
or Devotion, (10) Conquest, (11) Length of life, (12) Debt. 


IV. House—({1} Mother and mother’s fami \y, (2) Education 
(3) Conveyances or vehicles, (4) Joyful circumstances, (5) 
Trade, (6) Residence, (7) Fame in war or by overcoming 
obstacles, (8) Health, (9) Treasure-trove, (10) About the 
world, (11) Cattle, milk, &c, (12) Travel in a northern 
direction. 


V. House—(1) Mother and mother's father, (2) Mother's 
brother, (3) Good done in former birth, (4) Composition of 
poems in one's native language, (5) Sons and daughter, (6) 
The uterus and purushagarbham, (7) Magic learning, (Man- 
travidya,) (8) Knowledge, (9) Intellect, (10) Brothers and 
sisters, (11) The next birth, (12) Practice of yoga. 


VI. Honse—{1) Disease, (2) Grief, (3) Wound from sharp 
weapons, (4) Enemies, (5) Drowning, (6) Hostility of cou- 
sins, (7) Bodily pains at time of death, (8) Boils, ulcers, 
&e., (9) Theft, (10) Venereal diseases, (11) Poisonous bites 
from snakes, scorpions, &c, (12) Prison. 


VII. House—(1) Relations, (2) Travelling in westerly di- 


rection, (3) Wife, (4) Marriage, (5) Lawsuit and Disputes, 
(6) Sons and Daughters.by a wife other than the first, (7) 


30 DESCRIPTION OF THE TWELVE HOUSES, &C. [CHAP. 


Presents and Honour from monarchs, (8) Can gain affection 
without exertion, (9) Trade, (10) Wives other than the first, 
(11) Death, (12) Enmity between the native and his son. 


VIII. House, (1) Death in battle, (2) Dangerous injuries 
from crowds, (3) Falling from a height, (4) Long illness, (5) 
Failure in enterprise, (6) Sorrows through debt, (7) Extra- 
vagance, (8) Death by murder, (9) Enmity and quarrels, 
(10) Danger from poison or poisonous bites, (11) Prison, (12) 
Defeat. 


IX. House—(1) Father, (2) Father's property, (3) Alms- 
giving, etc., (4) Good fortune, (5) Building charitable and 
public institutions (religious, literary, etc.), (6) Encouraging 
or supporting schools and education, (7) Building temples, 
(8) Receiving religious instructions (upadesam), (9) The 
eight siddhis or powers, such' as clairvoyance, etc, (10) 
Building tanks and wells, (11) Wisdom (Gnanapadam), (12) 
Living in hills or forests. 


X. House—(1) Religions acts done in a past birth, (2) 
Good acts and life,(3)Landed property, (4) Mercy, clemency, 
(5) Religious devotion, (6) House property, (7) Devotion to 
God, (8) Courage, (9) Fame, (10) Semen, (11) Apparel, (12) 
Changes of dwelling place to an eastern country. 


* XI. House—({1) The eldest brother or sister of the nati ve, 
(2) The good or bad fortune of the same, (8) Adultery,(4) 
Skill in language of the King or ruler, (5) Wealth from 
landed property, (6) conveyance carried by men, as palankeen, 
etc, (7) Freedom from grief, (8) Apparel, (9) Music or Dan- 
cing as a profession,(10) Wisdom, (11) Royal favour acquir- 
ed through writing, (12) Sea voyages. 


XII. House—(1) Travelling around the world, (2) Em- 
ployment in a foreign land, (3) Loss of money, (4) Enjoyment 
of all kinds, (5) Enjoyment i in eating and sleeping, (6) Pu- 
nishment from king caused by quarrels, (7) Licentiousness, 
luxury, etc., (8) Practices, (9) Export and import trade, (10) 
Enjoyment in this present life resulting from deeds done in 
a former birth, (11) Alms-giving, (12) Sacrifice and religi- 
ous ceremonies. 


TO ASCERTAIN THE STRENGTH OF EACH PARTICUEAR 
INFLUENCE IN BACH PARTICULAR HOUSE. 


First take the house of birth and observe in what relation 
each of the 9 planets is to this house. If the majority be 


XIV.] HOW TO FIND DASAS, BUKTI8S, &C 31 


favourable, all the effects pointed out in the above 12 houses. 
will be favourable; if the majority be unfavourable, all the 
above effects will be unfavourable. For farther particulars 
and details the student should refer to the author's " Aryan 
Astrology.” 


CHARTER XIII. 


To know whether a horoscope is Male or Female. 


In a day the number of breaths taken by each man comes to 
21,600. During this interval seven kinds of animal life come 
into existence of which mankind is one. The time which 
is taken for 28 inhalations and 74 exhalations, and which is 
the very last period out of that required for the said 21,600, 
is the time during which mankind are born. The first 
half of this period is the period during which females are 
born, and the second half that in which males are born. Find- 
ing out the particular number of breaths at which a_ person 
is born, divide it by 28 and divide the quotient again by 2. 
The remainder tf: odd, is male for the following days of the 
week :—Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, if the other 
three days, female. 

Ifitis even only on the said four days from Sunday, 
it will be a female. Male for the other three days. 


CHAPTER XIV. 


How to find Dasas, Buktis, Antrams, &€c. 


We give below the various stars and the Dasas_ which 
commence at the time of birth of an individual born under 
a particular star : — 


Aswati ) PERIOD. 
Makam ¢.......... Ketu........... 7 Years. 
Mulam } 

Baruni 


Puram &.......... Venus............: 20 do. 
Puradam 


32 HOW TO FIND DASAS, BUBTI8, &c. [cHaP. 


Uthiram 4 avesrwen.6 Years. 
Uthiradam 
Rohini 
a 


Kartigai = PERIOD. 


-.Moon — eeessee--.10 do. 


ae i rngasirisha 
Chittirai . 
Avittam 
Tiruvathirai 
Swathi fsa ..Rahu.........18 do. 
Sathiam 

Punarpusam 

Visakam p— 

Parattathi 

Pusam 

Anusham frs 

Uthirattathi 

Ayilyam 

Kattay } ,.-..-Mfercury........... 17 do. 
Ravathi oe 

Total number of Stars 27—Period 120 years. 


Learning according to this the Dasa at the time of birth, 
find out how long the star at the time of birth remains alto- 
gether, and how much of its period, if any, has passed at the 
time of birth, and how much of it yet remains. Taking the 
entire duration of the star as corresponding to the total 
number of years of the particular Dasa—deduct propor- 
tionately as much of it as is due to the time which the star 
has spent at the time of birth. The remaining number of 
years represents the remainder in the particular Dasa, and 
then go on adding to it the Dasa periods of the succeeding 
Dasas which follow the order-pointed above. 


To find out the period of a Bukthi in any Dasa, multiply 
the total period of the Dasa by the total period of the Dasa 
of the planet whose Bukthi period has to be found out, and 
divide the result by 10. The quotient represents so many 
months, and the remainder multiplied by 3 so many days, 
both which constitute the Bukthi period of the planet in 
question. Adding the period thus got for every planet, 
the total will give the total period of Dasa. 

Dasa is the period during which each planet remains 
under—a particular star. Bukthi is the ninth part-ofa 
Dasa. Antaram or Chidram is the ninth part of a Bukthi. 


«»-JUpiter.......... 16 do. 


-.oaturn........... 19 do. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC. AT BIRTH, &c. 33 


To find the Autaram take the whole period of each 
Bukthi, multiply the months thereof by 4, the result of 
which will be so many days, and multiply the days 
thereof by 4,which will give so many Indian hours. Then 
multiply these days and hours by the total Dasa period of 
the planet whose Antara period you wish to calculate. The 
result will be so many days constituting the Antara period. 

The Dasa Bukthi Antara effects we mean to publish in 
monthly pamphlets. But they are roughly given in the 
first part of this work in treating of Lagnas and Lagna 
Bhavas. 


These Lagnas and Lagna Bahvas treat only of single 
planets in each sign, but do not treat of the conjunction of 
planets in the same sign. This too will appear in the 
monthly publication referred to—as also the particular 
degrees or each sign occupied by the planets which vary 
the effects. 


CHAPTER XV. 


Description of persons indicated by the signs of the zodiac 
ascending at birth, the form given by each planet in the 
twelve signs, the position of the planets, and the significations 
of the planetary aspects in a nativity. 


ARIES. 


When Aries is the house of birth it indicates («) Mental 
qualities : Royal favourite; insinuating speech ; determina- 
tion ;. firmness; covetousness ; conscientiousness; anxieties 
either in youth or old age ; (b) Cereumestauces: Involved in 
debt ;though in the lowest position, will always have autho- 
rity over a tew; inclination towards the liberal arts. 


WHEN ARIES IS THE 1ST HOUSE. 


1. Sun or Mars being with Mercury iu Aries when one 
is horn in Aries:—he will have a hot body, kingly fortune ; 
will be wise, hot-tempered, famous, courageous, successful 
in war; will marry many wives; will live up to middle 
age; though possessing much wealth aud fortune will 
lose it towards the end; will not care for relatives or great 
men; will lose wealth and position in youth and middle 

, but will gain them afterwards and will have sons an 
fortune 


34 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &€. [CHAP. 


2. Moon or Venus in Aries; will lose his mother's 
relations in his youth; will be miserable owing to his 
wife ; will enjoy good through many women ; will be 
fair without being tall: quarrelsome; will in middle age 
be subject to much anxiety and quarrel; will travel 
through several countries and have some comfort; will 
have more daughters ; will be entangled in dispute and lose 
money owing to his father's or his own wife; will suffer 
from and escape cold and consumption ; will suffer from and 
escape bad humours in the eye andthe sense organs. 


3. Jupiter or Mercury in Aries; will be _ wise, of good 
conduct and genial disposition, will be happy, and patriotic, 
will learn politics and many languages, will be of a strong 
constitution, will have much wealth and fortune. 


4. Saturn or Dragon's head in Aries; will be dull, of bad 
conduct, will be miserablo and have enemies, will lose his 
ancestral property and parents, will be ugly, aud will either 
be diseased or without some member of his body. 


WHEN TAURUS IS THE 2ND HOUSE. 


1. Sun or Saturn in Taurus; will have a dark and 
dirty-coloured body, of a bilious and windy constitution, 
will have wealth and fortune, will be sinful, aud the sin will 
prevent the birth of sons, will have disease and enmity 
owing to wife, will be fickle-minded, will lose his ancestral 
property, but will regain a little, will be a traveller, will be 
irreligious, distrustful, and commit mistakes, will act con- 
trary to his caste rules, will be miserable, suffer loss aud 
have enmity in his connection with the Government. 


2. Dragon's head or Mars in Taurus; will suffer iu 
childhood either death or serious disease, will become infa- 
mous, will lose without cause what he earned, will be sub- 
ject to poisonous bites, of a weak body, will be subject to 
danger from fire and poison. 


3... Jupiter or Venus in Taurus ; will be powerful of tongue, 
fortunate in the Government, well-versed iu _ litigation, 
but will not earn anything therefrom, influential, famous; 
will have increase of family and be happy, long-lived and 
patriotic, sensible, will love his own religion and have a 
captivating tongue. 


4. Moon or Mercury in Taurus ; will talk mildly, will be 
a linguist, will be a poor man, and in middle ago will suffer 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 35 


enmity and misery from the Government in his profession ; 
but these will pass, will be clever in trade and many pro- 
fessions, will be a loser of children. 


WHEN GEMINI IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 


1. Saturn, Mars or Dragon's head in Gemini; of loose 
morals, will earn a very bad name from venereal diseases 
and licentions character ; will be brotherless, or if he has 
brothers will be separate from them, will become a servant 
of the low, will lose the ornaments iu his ear, will be a 
debtor, will suffer from want of blood in middle age ; will suf 
fer imprisonment from Government or many enemies ; either 
himself or some one of his brothers will have ear-pain. 


2. Venus or Moon in Gemini; will be famous and for- 
tunate through his brothers, will get fortune from females, 
will be in an authoritative position ; will become a dancer, 
player or singer, will have a fortunate wife and will have 
two wives. 

3. Jupiter, Mars, or Sun in Gemini; will have increase of 
brothers ; will he fortunate, but will suffer in youth, will 
suffer loss and be subject to quarrels owing to his father's 
two wives or owing to women, but this will pass away; will 
be a high servant, will be learned in the State language 
and be famous, will get much wealth. 


WHEN CANCER IS THE 4TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun, Moon, or Jupiter in Cancer; will be fortunate, 
happy, and attain the fortune of a king, will be a linguist, 
will possess several vehicles, and though famous owing to 
trade and other transactions will lose his mother, will build 
public buildings in many places, will suffer in middle age 
injury from riding or driving, will have a fortunate mother's 
side, will have authority up to his last moment, will lose while 
young his mother. 

2. Mars, Saturn or Dragon's head in Cancer ; will lose 
old property, suffer much during old age, will have no 
vehicles orcattle, will be a traveller, quarrelsome and of bad 
conduct, drunkard, enemy ta his own religion, of middle life. 

3. Mercury or Venus iu Cancer ; learned in foreign langu- 
ages, eloquent, traveller over the seas, original writer, cap- 
tivating speaker, imitative, will have vehicles, charitable and 
wise, will lose his post in middle age, will belong to a good 
profession, pnblic spirited, an instructor in philosophy, two 
wives, instructor, judge. 


36 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &&. [CHAP. 


WHEN LEO IS THE 5TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun and Mercury in Leo ; will acquire wealth, but 
lose it by thieves and kings, will quarrel first but win after- 
wards, will have Government service for some time, but will 
thereby incur loss and enmity, litigious, fortunate in youth 
and old age, limited number of children, learned in many 
arts, courageous, hot-tempered, deep-minded, will have to 
make long and persevering efforts for success, will lose 
father's side and parents in youth. (If Mercury be not with 
the Sun, there will not be so much good fortune.) 


2. Saturn, or Jupiter in Leo; will lose parents in youth, 
will not have old property for a long time.. 


8. Venus, Mercury or Moon in leo; venereal dis- 
eases, a short life, wealth acquired will be enjoyed by 
others, himself being in difficulties ; will lose parents in 
early age; and will also be full of cares. Will have 
many wives, the best being short-lived. Relatives will 
prove unfriendly. During middle age troubles caused? by 
kingly authority will be apprehended, but they will prove 
unfounded; will have a sickly wife. 


4. Mars or Dragon's head in Leo; miserable on ac- 
count of sons; miserable, and will be either imprisoned or 
fined, quarrels will arise with respect to lands and buildings 
and will bring on loss of money. 


WHEN VIRGO IS THE 6TH HOUSE. 


1. Jupiter or Sun in Virgo ; debtor—for money spent 
for purposes of fame and other good things. Will be un- 
friendly with many ; will lose children ; will be distressed 
with a fear of being imprisoned after middle age, but this 
fear will vanish soon. 


2. Saturn, Mars or Dragon's Head in Virgo; will 
triumph over enemies, will suffer from heat, (hoemorrhage 
and diseases of the blood.) For some time will live in a 
foreign country, will observe several religions, will not be 
happy through bis wife, miserable in youth, fortunate in 
later life, will suffer for sons first and will then have them, 
will learn foreign languages and be of middling intelligence, 
lover of his own religion, in youth will regain lost property, 
will have enmity in later life. 


3. Moon or Venue in Virgo; suffering from enemies 
syphilitic and consumptive, miserable for loss of parents 


XV.] TWELVE 81GN¢é OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 37 


miserable in youth, traveller, linguist and learned in many 
arts, not wealthy, ascetic, mild of speech, fortunate by his 
wife's side. 

WHEN Linra IS THE 7T& HOUSE. 


1. Sun or Moen.—Pareutsill be degraded. Will have 
many wives. Will be very unsettled in the choice of a 


Bericht prospects will fail; money aud lands will be squan- 
dered. Will travel much. Will be a practical man. 


2. Venus or Mercury.—Willhavemore than one wife. 
Will be happy iu old age. Will be skilled in various profes- 
sions. Fickle-minded. The best wife will be short-lived. 

3. Saturn or Jupiter.—Willbecourageous. Though 
wealthy will yet be a debtor; will embrace various religi- 
ons. Talkative and litigious and will have enmity in middle 
age, a wanderer and sufferer on various accounts, but will be 
happy for some time, will not learn anything, of low profes- 
sion, debtor, litigious and liable to kingly punishment. 
Will travel in foreign countries. Will acquire wealth 
through political means. Will learn various professions. 
Very suspicious character. Much wealth will be lost through 
father or brothers. Will be practical aud litigious. 


In 


middle age will be found fault with for disobedience, and 


after many attempts will establish his innocence. 


4. Mars or Dragon's Head.—Willhave a bad wife and 
bad children. Will be involved in quarrels. Relatives will 
suffer much loss in divers ways, and wife will suffer from 
cough, and relatives will die a sad death. During middle 
age will have many enemies, will lose wealth, and will suffer 
severe misfortune. Will fall iuto disrepute through his 
wife or brothers. 

WHEN SCORPIO IS THE 8TH HOUSE. 

1. Saturn, Moon, or Jupiter.—Willbe short-lived, will 
be subject to protracted diseases aud much suffering. Will 
be the enemy of every one, indebted, and a sinner. 

2. Mercury, Sun, or Venus.—Willloseall relatives on 
the parents’ side. Will not inherit any property. Will 
live to middle age. Will have a debauched wife. A 
prosperous career at the beginning iu life, but subsequently 
attended with much shame and suffering. Will travel. In 
youth life will be in peril owing to accidents from fire, or 
attack of beasts. Will have defective organs. 


38 TWELVE SIGNS OP ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. [CHAP. 


8. Mars or Dragon's Head.—Likelyto die during minor- 
ity. Will not be prosperous in money matters; will be 
poor. Will seek various professions. Will suffer death by 
murder. 

WHEN SAGITTARICOS IS THE 9TH HOUSE. 


1. Jupiter with Sun or Mercury.—Will possess wealth 
surpassing even that of kings, will have a fortunate family 
and permanent kingly authority, will be charitable, cunning 
of tongue, will be an able writer, will have much ancestral 
property, will be a wealthy man in the enjoyment of many 
comforts and possessing good wife and sons, gardens and 
public buildings. 


2. Saturn or Mercury.--Willembrace a foreign religion, 
will lose ancestral property, but have self-acquired property, 
fond of foreign languages, will live in foreign countries, will 
learn many arts, will lose his father's side, will not care for 
any body, will have enemies, will have the fame of acquir- 
ing wealth after first losing it. 


3. Mars or Dragon's Head.—Willbe a debtor; will 
have neither wife nor children ; will wander, afraid of the 
tyranny of kings ; will lose the Government position gained 
in youth ; his lands, wealth and servants will be dispersed 
in various ways ; will involve himself in sin. 


4. Moon or Venus.—Slavery,trade, contracts ; these 
will be the means of livelihood; licentious. Will attain fame 
through women. Will have no immovable property. 
Loved by many. Will travel by sea. Will be grieved for 
want of male children. Will get into disrepute through 
parents. Ill-versed in mother-tongue. Will lose parents 
in early life. 


WHEN CAPRICORN IS THE 10TH HOUSE. 


1. Mars, Venus, or Moon.—Will possess wealth in the 
form of lands, &c. Will be of kingly fortune. Will hold 
authoritative position. Very Instful—even incestuous. 
During middle age will travel in foreign countries. Having 
attained to high official position in middle age will lose it 
and will endeavour to win back the same ; will earn liveli- 
hood by means of manufacture and litigious undertakings. 
Will be able to compose verses. Will be desirous of per- 
forming the rites and ceremonies pertaining to his caste; 
will gain glory through women. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &€. 39 


2. Saturn, Sun or Dragon's Head.—Will be a menial 
servant for some time and for some time a teacher, then 
take to some mean profession. Willbeimpious. Will have 
enemies. Will have no education. Will he influenced in 
his conduct by religious tenets other than his own; will 
have thieving propensities. Will suffer punishment for for- 
gery. Will be miserable both in youth and old age. Un- 
settled profession. Will not he of service at parents' death- 
bed. 


3. Mercury or Jupiter.—Willlose all ancestral immova- 
ble property. Will be indebted. Will suffer severe mis- 
fortune in youth. Though disposed to doing good actions 
will lack opportunities for the same. He will lose his 
property through rashness ; not profiting by learning and 
trade ; will attain to mediocre fortune in after life; and 
will suffer losses by contracting debts. 


WHEN AQUARIUS IS THE 11TH HOUSE. 


1. Jupiter, Venus or Sun.—Charitable, famous, authorita- 
tive ; will have more than one wife, will have increase of sons 
and fortune, will obtain fortune and living through two 
states, will have fortunate elders. 


2. Mercury, Saturn or Dragon's Head.—Miserable ; will 
fail in all attempts, will lose elder brother's side; old proper- 
ty and self-acquired property will be lost by new speculation. 


WHEN PISCES IS THE 12TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Very fortunate when old on account of his 
having been a famous officer in a kingdom. Honorable, 
unhappy, of a very obliging nature. 


2. Moon.—Will be a manager in a Zemindari or some 
such place. Will lead a comfortable life, famous in middle 
age. 

3. Mars.—Of a despotic nature, honorable, a debtor. 
Unfortunate in middle age. 


4. Mercury.—A wholesale merchant. Will be put to 
difficulties by the State and will thus lose much in the 
beginning, but will recover his loss. 


5. Juptter.—A tutor, honorable. Tolerably wealthy. A 
debtor. Loss of sons. 


6. Venus.— Always happy. Wealthy, beautiful. Hono- 
rable but fickle-minded. 


40 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &€. [CHAP. 


7. Saturn.—Fickle-minded, of gentle nature. Will be 
entangled in troubles even when young. Will earn much 
and lose much. Unhappy throughout. 


8 &9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Willhave no perma- 
nent situation in life. Fickle-minded. Will be put to 
troubles on account of some money transactions. Will 
have all kinds of enjoyments when old. 


TAURUS. 


A man born in Taurus or Vrishabham, will be religious 
and respectful, honest in his dealings and gentle in his 
conversation; will take but a small quantity of food and be 
‘balky in‘his constitution ; will have servants, know mathe- 
matics, and possess good appearance; during his 5th, 16th, 
t9th, 27th and 47th years he will:suffer for a month from 
enemies and from diseases. 


WHEN TAURUS IS THE 1ST HOUSE. 
1. The Sun in Taurus signifies one whose blood is hot, 


who will acquire fame, possess good stature, red colour and 
long life. 


2. The Moon.—He will suffer from asthmatic complaints 
and have a lean body, many sisters and a short life. 

3. Mars.—Hewill have a sense of self-respect, heart 
(disease, impure blood and a eickly wife. 


4. Mercury.—A deep-thinking, sensible man, having 
prosperous ancestors on the maternal side; he will become 
the heir of another's property; his life will be of average 
length and he will maintain himself by his education. 


5. Jupiter.—A debtor who will Jose all his possessions, 
but have long life and self-respect. 


6. Venus.—He will have good features and prolonged 
life, will be cheerful and somewhat lustful and will have 
many carriages. 


7. Saturn.—Willbe always bashful and become power- 
ful; his property will be unstable; he will labour in 
difficulties in middle age and his ancestry will be ruined. 


8. Dragon's Head.—He will live in foreign countries, 
suffer from boyhood, will come by hidden wealth supposed 
to be lost and get magisterial power. 


9. Dragon's Tatl.—Willdo all sorts #£ business and 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &é. 41 


have a diseased frame; will be troubled by enemies and be 


a debtor. 
WHEN GEMINI IS THE 2ND HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Theman will be involved in quarrels on account 
of property, will have eye-disease. His words will carry 
some weight with them ; he will have a desire for im- 
movable property and possess ornaments and coins. 


2. Moon.—He will get wealth of two kinds; he will 
have few descendants; his heart will be bad, but his words 
sweet and he will become rich. 


8. Mars.—Otbers will carry away his wealth; he will 
have a good amount of landed property at first, but in the 
middle of his life it will be lost; will be employed iu 
Government service, where he will have some enemies from 
whom he will be free afterwards, his sons will have a 
similar life. 


4. Merenry.—Will acquire wealth by merchandise and 
by other means; will be soft in speech, poor in family and 
shortsighted. 

5. Jupiter.—He will learn several languages, and with 
all his learning he will suffer from want of money; what he 
has he will sell at a low price and lead a hard life between 
20 and 40. 

6. Venus.—Hewill be a good talker; and he will play 
away his wealth and also bis honour with women. He will 
be pale-eyed and have some taste for literature. 

7. Saturn.—He will lose his parents in youth ; after 
half his life his family will be ruined; he will be a stingy 
fellow, who, though possessing lands and wealth, will not 
enjoy them; he will suffer from eye-sore. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head fy Tail.—Hewill be in danger of 
being poisoned; will be a debtor and many will hate him. 


WHEN CANCER IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Signifies voluptuous disease; his wife will 
have blood disease; he will be a_ slavish Government 
servant with diseased eyes, and he will have fortunate 
brothers. 

2. Moon.—He will have many sisters and will live by 
his education; will care for the good of the world, and 
become great, and be sometimes prosperous and will some- 
times suffer. 


42 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &@. [cuar. 


3. Mars.--He will have no brothers; his wife will have 
blood-disease ; he will be impure and unclean; will be fortu- 
nate enough to marry a widow; will be angry in his temper, 
will have ear-disease and will not take good food. 


4. Mereury.—QOne born to enjoy 3; will have but few 
brothers; will be a coward ; his brothers will be happy; 
he will be a painter; aud he will suffer from syphilitic 
diseases, 


5. Jupiter.—Willhave a wife of high birth ; through 
women and by quarrels on account of property he will lose his 
wealth and become ignominious ; he will have many brothers 
and good fortune ; will suffer from dropsy and have many 
daughters. 


6. Venus.—Happyin his wife; long life ; will havea 
dowry ; singer ; traveller in foreign countries; will suffer 
from diseases, ie, asthma, &c., in middle age; will earn 
much money and thus become famous in the state; will 
suffer from nervous diseases; will become well known 
through sister's family. 


7,8 & 9. Saturn, Dragon's Head fy Tail.—~Atimid man ; 
shameless and somewhat deaf, without any issue. 


WHEN LEO TS THE 4TH HOUSE. 


1. San.—Willhave ancestral property, and will be put 
to difficulties in middle age on account of this property. 
His mother will die in his youth, or his maternal side will 
be ruined. Land and carriages, though possessed, will not 
be enjoyed ; fear of death will bring him into danger under 
a wicked Government. 


2. JMMovn.—Hewill be rich at first, but will soon lose 
his wealth ; though well educated he will suffer in the early 
part of his life, when he will lose his brothers, and then 
enjoy a short period of happiness. 


3. Mars.—Shewill become a lean, weak and diseased 
mother ; her maternal side will not prosper, and he will not 
possess many lands or. houses. 


4. Merewry.—Will enter many departments of com- 
merce and be a respectable man; his mother's side will 
do some good to him; will be happy after 30 years of his 
life. Juhis youth his mother will die. 


5. dupiter—Hewill own lands and furniture; will 


XV.} TWELVE SIGNS OF goptac AT BIRTH, &c. 43 


be an honest man and love his religion, and will become 
famous and praised by all, and will have a prosperous 
maternal side. 


6. Venus.—A man without firmness; he will be raised 
by his brothers and he will study philosophy and law ; will 
enter Government service and obtain two appointments and 
will be prosperous from his middle age. 


7. Saturn.—Will be bashful and have enemies every- 
where and lose his mother's side in early life and father's 
also ; he will do mean actions. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head fy Tatl.— Relatives will be enemies ; 
will have no movable property of his own; for a very short 
period there will be a glimpse of good life which will end; 
he will despise his brothers. 


WHEN VIRGO IS THE 5TH HOUSE. 

1. The Sun.-—-He will have no sons; his family will 
soon be extinct ; tre-will do things prohibited ; Will be stub- 
born and become rich and famous; or be will be born in 
a great family; will lose his paternal side. 


2. Moon.—His maternal uncles will have many daugh- 
ters, but himself few; he will be an enemy to many; will 
be skilled in three sciences, and he will have no rest. 


3. Mars.—In middle life he will lose his sons and will 
be greatly distressed ; he will have no fame; his descen- 
dants will-be groat, but will die in their manhood. 


4. Mercury.—No sons. His nncle's side will be 
brought to an end; he will become rich and will manage 
some other -family. 

5. Jupiter.—No sons. In quarrels for property he will 
go out of his country, yet he will manage to live by his 
argumentative power and get fame. 

6. Venus.—He will become a dancer, and will also enter 
many other professions, and all will be useless. His wife 
will die in youth. He will have daughters. 

7, Saturn.—Willhave many wives, but no sons and no 
fame ; his maternal side, though prosperous at first, will soon 
lose all; syphilitic disease. 

8. Dragon's Head.---Always quarrelsome and oppressed 
by enemies and leading an unhappy life. 

9. Dragon's Tatl.—No descendants. 


44 TWELVE 61GNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. [CHAP. 


WHEN LIBRA IS THE 6TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Motherand her side will be lost in boyhood. 
He will lose his ancestral property, his relations will be his 
enemies, and he will lead a troubled life. 


2. Moon.—For the sake of his mother and his daugh- 
ters he will have quarrels. His brothers will not be favour- 
able; he will have ear-disease. Wicked kings will oppress 
him, and he will afterwards be free from them. 


3. Mars.—Signifies blood disease. He will die either 
by fire or by beasts; will live in foreign countries, and after 
forty will lead a troubled life owing to quarrels. 


4. Mercury.—Willbe troubled in mind. All his accomp- 
lishments will fail and will be of no use to others when they 
need it; his property will decrease. 


5. Jupiter.—Hewill have nerve-disease ; his high posi- 
tion will bring him many enemies. Some enemy in the 
guise of a friend will do him some injury before 35; he will 

. suffer on account of his king's anger. 


6. Venus.—A diseased wife will bring him enemies ; he 
will suppress them. 


7. Saturn.—All will be friends. His king will inflict 
some injury upon him, but it will not be oppressive ; thieves 
and enemies will trouble him and make him lose much of 
his wealth. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Dragon's Tail.—Thieves and 
women will carry away some portion of his wealth, and he 
will have much to lose. 


WHEN SCORPIO IS THE 7TH House. 


1. Swn.—Relativeswill make him happy ; he will have a 
diseased wife; his paternal side. will be men having many 
wives; he will be skilled in politics; will get magisterial 
power and deal out justice ; after forty he will become 
famous. 


2. Moon.—He will have many wives; a wicked wife will 
put him to muchtrouble. By quarrels and by the favour of 
kings he will improve his position. 

3. Mars.—His first wife will render him unhappy; he 
will have much skill in debate aud be cruel in temper ; will 
be obstinate till forty-five; he will try his best to raise 
himself, and will succeed only after that age. 


XV.] TWELVE 8IGN8 OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 45 


4. Mercury.—From fifty years of age he will be a rich 
man; the king will favonr him. 


5. Jupiter.—Hewill have debts and enemies ; though his 
wives will be of high birth he will live on good terms with 
them; after trying his best in law and politics he will not 
become either rich or great. 


6. Venus.—Many wives. Will enter into mean and dis- 
honourable professions, as dancing, &c. 

7. Saturn.—Nomarriage and no happiness. Will meet 
with failure everywhere. 

8. Dragon's Head.—A quarrelsome, stubborn man— 
will have enemies. Will be always angry with somebody 
or other. The middle of his life will be disturbed by 
quarrels. 

9. Dragon's Tail.—Will be put to shame by his wife 
and will suffer from disease. 


WHEN SAGITTARIUS IS THE 8TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Hewill become a debtor and lose his parents 
and his happiness. There is a weakness in some limb, and 
old age will make him unable to move. He will be a 
wicked fellow, and an enemy to the interest of the people. 

2. Moon.—Willlose his mother in early youth, will have 
few brothers, and is destined to suffer from early youth. 

3. Mars.—Being a debtor he will lose his lands and his 
honour; will be happy inearly lifeand unhappy afterwards. 
Will die an untimely death. 

4. Mereury.—By several deeds he will be eudangered ; 
will have blood disease ; being bound for another, he will, 
after 20, undergo difficulties and lose his wealth. 

5. Jupiter.—Debtor. Although he might become versed 
in many departments of knowledge, none of this will help 
him in time; he will be unhappy. 

6. Saturn.—By theft and in jail he will find his means 
of life ; a mean fellow that will live long. 

8&9. Dragon's Head and Dragon's Tuil.—KHither by 
poison or through his enemies he will be endangered ; being 
troubled in his early life, he will afterwards become happy. 


WHEN CAPRICORN IS THE 9TH HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—By his lands, wife's house or his uncle, he will 
have enemies. He will do good actions. Being employed 


46 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &¢. [CHAP. 


in Government service he will be troubled in middle age, 
and afterwards have better fortune. 


2. Moon.—He will get the property of another family. 
In youth his mother and father will meet with loss, and he 
will become a merchant. 


3. Mars.—He will become an oppressive magistrate ; 
many times his life will be endangered and afterwards 
he will be free; his brothers will be fortunate; all this 
will take place after 30. 


4. Mercury.—He will have servants; he will be a mer- 
chant and make much profit. He will be a means of power 
to some persons. He will hesitate and stand in doubt over 
everything; sometimes he will be under the protection of 
petty kings, and will then lose it. He will have no fixed 
residence. 


5. Jupiter.—Although of high birth he will do mean 
duties ; though his intentions be good, yet, not being able 
to carry them into practice, he will be troubled and undergo 
much loss of wealth. 


6. Venus.—Hewill conduct himself honourably in an 
act which requires nothing but deceit and falsehood. He 
will be a teacher, and his wife will bring him some property. 

7. Saturn.—Lands and other things will come to him 
by chance ; will have few sons; his attention will be away 
from what he is doing; his object will be somehow to get 
from others what they have. He will lose his parents. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Dragon's Tatl._—Parentawill 
die in his early youth. His conduct will displease all. 


WHEN AQUARIUS IS THE 10TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—During minority his father will not be favour- 
able to him. In Government service he will be endangered 
in middle life, and afterwards he will be free from danger. 


2. Moon.—Will be a very petty servant under Govern- 
ment, will lose his parents in his yonth; will always be 
teased by his brothers, and he will have no issue. 


3. Mars.—in middle life he will lose his wife and sons 
and landsand all; will go to foreign countries and live by 
inflicting punishment on others as ajailor, etc. 


4. Mereury.—Will be troubled by want ofason. By 


xv.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 47 


merchandise and by teaching he will gain money; will 
be intelligent but will do mean actions. 


5. Jdupiter.—Bygood deeds he will be prominent; will 
be charitable. Will have few sons; his profession will be 
to teach philosophy and morals. 


6. Venus.—Wilbe learned in dramatic literature, and 
gain wealth through his wife ; will have fertile lands, rich 
houses and excellent furniture, and good Government ser- 
vice ; all this in his old age. 


7. Saturn.—Willbe a slave engaged in working 


machines, will live in other countries, and will not improve 
his lands. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Dragon's Tail.—Willlo mean 
and sinfulactions, will have neither a settled life nor a 
fixed residence; by gainsaying often and often he will be 
brought to trouble. 


WHEN PISCES IS THE 1 1TH HOUSE. 


1. Suwn.—Hewill gain much in Government service and 
become high in situation; will be charitable in middle 
age; he will be in danger from those above him two or three 
times; his elder brothers and sisters will prosper. 


2. Moon.—Alwayshated by many and suffering disea- 
ses; will manage his sister's property; sometimes he will 
earn a good name, and sometimes a bad one. 


3. Mars.—Willhave much landed property; by quarrels 
and civil cases he will gain money; some great family will 
be endangered by this man ; will spend more than he earns ; 
will be a traveller. 


4. Mercury.—Adebtor, being obliged to others ho will 
be in difficulties in old age ; will be learned and be troubled 
by women. 


5. Jupiter.—Tilhis death wealth will be acquired ; his 
friends will be enemies; his elder brothers will lose their 
sons and their wealth. 


6. Venus.—Thoughgetting money, through women he 
will not improve ; he will enjoy much pleasure, gain little, 
spend much, be merry, and marry many girls. 


7. Saturn.—-Wilbe weak in body, and diseased; will 
spend more than he earns; lose his brothers and suffer. 


48 TWELVE 8IGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &e. [OHAP. 


8 & 9.  Dragon‘s Head and Dragon's Tail.—Wilbe put 
to shame by his elders; will be adebtor; will stake his 
honour and get disease. 


WHEN ABIES IS THE 12th HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Willbe honoured in foreigu countries and get 
power; from youth he will gain the friendship of kings and 
will live many years in a mountainous country. 


2. Moon.—Littlehappiness ; will go on voyages ; he will 
be in danger of kings many times and will suffer and get 
better afterwards, and he will have good sleep. 


3. Mars—Willhave no sleep and will be engaged in 
quarrels for property; will be in the army and have many 
wives ; will suffer in old age and lose his means of life. 


4. Mercury.—Willbe jointly engaged with another in 
manufacture and trade; he will not be happy; will trouble 
himself much for the good of the world; and he will spend 
much, 


5. Jupiter.—Adebtor, aud he will be put to shame many 
times ; will go to foreign countries to preach his own religion. 


6. Venus.—Wilbe a player and go from place to place; 
even from his youth he will begin all kinds of arts and 
many books; will act the part of a woman; will join with 
other women and gain wealth. 


7. Saturn.—Inforeign countries he will be engaged in 
mean service; will enjoy no kind of pleasure; in middle 
life he will come to a good position by all kinds of wicked 
deeds. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Dragon's Tail.—Will make 
voyages to many countries; will find his means ofliving by 
sinful deeds and will punish others for their faults; in 
general cases he will be the winner; in arguing for a wicked 
purpose he will show much skill; he will be fond of voyages ; 
and he will suffer in his youth. 


GEMINI. 


A man born in Gemini will be very bashful, prudent, 
hypocritical, true to his religion, a smooth talker, of win- 
ning address, patient, dropsical. Inthe 3rd, 5th, 8th, 10th, 
18th or 28th month or year from his birth he will suffer 
from sickness. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &¢. 49 


WHEN GEMINI IS THE 1ST Howse. 
1. Sun.—A heated body, many brothers and sisters, 
freckled skin, prosperity by brothers and sisters, short life 
or moderate. 


2. Moon.—Hooping cough, short or medium height. 
Early death. 


3. Mars.—Diseases exhibiting blood outside, short life, 
litigious, quarrels with partners, punished by the State in 
youth. 


4. Mercury.—Moderate health, long life, sagacious, 
patient, learned in morals, mathematics, science or me- 
chanical arts. 


5. Jupiter.—Forensic skill, quick perception, inheriting 
disease, long life, upright. 


6. Venus.—Affluent by women, particular about his 
honour, arbitrator, fair complexion, long life. 


7. Saturn.—Short stature, skin disease, ventriloquist, 
short-lived, likely to lose brothers and sisters. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail_—Swarthy, moderate 
complexion, disposed to disease, will reach average life, 
in his prime will endure many calamities; will lose his 
wife very early. 


WHEN CANCER IS THE 2ND HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Poverty of brothers and _ sisters, profuse 
wealth, loss of ancestral property, defect in eyes, hot tem- 
pered, will be wise. 


2. Moon.—Acquisition of property by various means, 
soft tongued, desirous of white apparel, prosperous in youth, 
subject to calamities in old age, agriculturist, maintained 
by mother's relatives. 


3. Mars.—Poor, fatal to brothers and sisters; melan- 
choly, cynical, loss of property and hardships in youth as 
well as in old age, unjustly punished in middle age by 
the State. 

4. Mercury.—Reserved, fickle-minded, persevering, 
adopting many trades but sticking to none, of small wealth, 
will be enriched after his 35th year by a woman. 

5. Jupiter —Will be in debt at the beginning of his 
life, well versed in the language of the State and in the 


50 TWBLYE. SIGNS. OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &0. [CHAP 


sacred language, a dispenser of laws, sincere, wealthy in 
old age and conspicuous in the State. 


6. Venuws.—More prolific descendants on female side, 
sudden acquisition of strange property, owner of horses, 
carriages, &c.,scarcity of inherited property. 

7. Saturn.—False, unfaithful, dishonest, mischievous, 
offspring very unfortunate, shortsighted, melancholy, 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.-- Jack-of-all-trades-and- 
languages, master of none, misappropriation of his property 
by strangers. 

WHEN LEO IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Abundance of brothers and sisters; coura- 
geous, lord over many for 30 years. 

2. Moon.—Very merciful, timid, unchsstity of female 
relatives.; equal distribution of brothers and sisters. 

3. Afare.—Loss of brothers and sisters, subject to vene- 
real disease in middle age ; passionate but bold. 

4. Mercury.—Though dependent he will yet hold an 
honourable position. Timid, subject to hardship in youth, 
will be supported by his maternal relatives, decrease of 
ancestral estates, few brothers and sisters. 

5. Jupiter.—Meek, will have many brothers and sisters, 
will have royal favour in middle age. 

6. Venus.—Scarcity of brothers and sisters. Many sad 
deaths in his family, polygamy, will live by arbitration, 
musician, fond of women. 

7. Saturn.—Loss of health through indulgence in plea- 
sure, loss of honour and name by means of his mistress ; 
subject to skin diseases, will lose his brothers and sisters. 
Will be subject to punishment and disgrace by the State 
in middle life. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Tendency to capital 
punishment from the state, addicted to sensual pleasure in 
whatever degree, or time, or place it he procurable. Off 
spring of brothers and sisters few, and even these few 
will be lost in middle age. 

WHEN VIRGO IS THE 4TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.+-Loss of ease, vain toil, loss by standing secu- 
rity for avovser; toas of maternal relatives in. youth. Fond 
of rambling aad roving. 


XV. TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 51 


2. Moon.—Acquisition of maternal wealth. Eminence 
obtained by skill in statecraft, inventor. He will increase 
and improve his inheritance. Tendency to be a private 
tutor to royalty or a minister. 


3. Mars.—Illness of mother, ruin of maternal relatives 
in early age, loss of lauded property. Will become an 
enemy to, or disagree with, brothers and sisters. Defect in 
person or members. 


4. Mereury.—Poverty of maternal relations. Will 
never live in one house. A scientist and a mathematician. 
Will prosper from youth. 


5. Jupiter.—Benefit from maternal relatives. Poly- 
anil ; will acquire in middle age lands, houses, carriages, 
rses, cattle, &c, by his own exertions. 


6. Venus.—Very quick to dispose of old property and 
purchase new, but will fail in both. Fond of, and given up 
to, servile and mean habits, and will have a greater number 
of female children. Though versed in many sciences, will 
scarcely be noticed till he has passed his prime. 

7. Saturn.—Lossof maternal relatives in his early age. 
Will be a heterodox believer or an apostate. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Versedin languages 
written from right to left, involved in debt, will cause loss 
to his parents. 

WHEN LIBRA IS THE 5TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Loss on the maternal side. Blessed with 
children when reduced to poverty. Famous in youth, but 
the fame will gradually decrease, loss of patrimony. 

2. Moon.—Will be profited by females on the maternal 
side, will have many children. Will become famous in 
learned disputations, will obtaiu riches by the offspring of 
his second wife. 


3. Mars.—Loss of children and children of brothers 
and sisters. Will be variously afflicted in old age. Will 
lose ancestral wealth by paying former debts and by grant- 
ing loans that will not be realized, very forgetful. 

4, Mercury.—Will be a philosopher, profound theo- 
logian, will live in foreign lands. Tendency to be a 
statesman, scarcity of children. Will have manly chil- 
dren by his second wife, very sagacious, affable. Will be 
learned and esteemed, enriched by his maternal relatives. 


52 TWELVE 8IGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &€. [CHAP. 


5. Jupiter.—Willhave few children, decrease of wealth 
in manhood. Will be exiled owing to the enmity and 
jealousy of brothers and relatives. Will possess neither 
supremacy nor kingly favour. 


6. Venus.—By the aid of women he will become famous 
as a learned man or enjoy royal favour, very charming 
looks, will support himself by his learning. Cleanly in 
habits, will prosper without any cares in youth; but will 


be prosperous in old age, will be an author or player, an 
instructor. 


7. Saturn.—Willhave children by his second wife, will 
lose his wife in youth, destitute of inheritance, profound 
in thought, magnanimous, will lose his children when they 


are young, will be famous in learning by the help of his 
mother. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—A sage. Famous as 
a moralist even in youth, will be patronised by others, will 
be famous through women, will be wealthy. Will have 
few brothers, and even those diseased. Loss of his elder 
brother's children. 


6TH HOUSE OR SCORPIO. 


1. Sun.—Diseased parents, enmity of brothers. In his 
prime, by the anger of the king, he will lose his situation, 
will be disgraced, subject to hardships and liable to diseases 
affecting the brain and head. 


2. Moon.—Will undergo sufferings owing to his free- 
dom of opinion, will lose maternal relatives. Sojourner in 
strange lands, consumptive. 


3. Mars.—Will always make enemies. By enmity sub- 


ject to continual loss, in youth and old age will suffer from 
piles. 


4. Merewry.—Notof an irritable disposition. Will have 
skin diseases when young. 


5. Jupiter.—Destituteof inheritance, loss of wealth by 
enmity, will live in strange lands, will have two wives, a 
debtor. Will not long enjoy one particular livelihood. A 
learned and famous disputant from youth. 


6. Venus.—Willat any rate overcome his enemies, will 
sail over the sea, will be enriched by women in various 
legal disputes, lustful. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 53 


7. Saturn.—By royal oppression will forego his under- 
takings in his prime and be engaged in servile occupations. 
In his prime he will be tormented by robbers and enemies, 
subject to skin diseases. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tatl.—Will triumph over 
his enemies. Passionate, particular about his good name. 
Famous in distant lands, fickle, having diseased legs. 


WEN SAGITTARIUS IS THE 7TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—A man well-versed in the language of the 
State and a famous speaker, will be famous and enjoy kingly 
honour through his wife. Will gain his object by bringing 
actions against the State. 


2. Moon.—Will be a master of Law, will be honoured by 
all, have two fair-complexioned wives, will be happy. 
Affluent by mother. 


3. Mars.—Displeasure through wife. Affected by dis- 
eases caused by heat. Disturbed by his enemies, a debtor. 
Having no ancestral property. Extinction of elder brother's 
family. 

4. Merewry.—Will have a varied and inconstant enjoy- 
ment of vehicles, a charming speaker. Miserable iu youth, 
loss of wife in youth, fortunate in old age. Arbitrator. 


5. Jupiter.—Amiable, will have enjoyment in foreign 
countries, having no ancestral property ; fair-complexioned, 
having fortunate brothers. A famous lawyer in his prime, 
happy in his wife. 


6. Venus.—Voluptuous. Will have different kinds of 
vehicles. Will have subordinates. Will have new and 
grand buildings. Misfortune and distress through the king, 
in his prime. 


7. Saturn.—Untimely marriage: unhappy in his wife. 
Will have enemies; a debtor. Will have venereal diseases. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Miserable through 
wife. Will wander in his prime. 


WHEN CAPRICORN IS THE 8TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Ancestral debt. Loss of parents in youth. 
Much disease. Will suffer from poisonous bites and from 
tyranny of kings in prime. 


2. Moon.—Miserable in youth. Will amass immense 


54 (cBap. 


fortunes in foreign countries in old age. Extinction of 
mother's family. WiH suffer from consumption. Prema- 
ture death. A debtor. 


3. Mars.—Will suffer much from the disturbance of 
brothers and enemies. Will lose much of his -wealth 
through fire or deceit in his prime, but will afterwards 
recover it in his old age. 


4. Mercury.—Wili derive no benefit from his learning. 
Mnch disease. Mother's family will be fortunate in hia 
youth, but afterwards will decline. 


5. Jupiter.—Will not be benefited by his learning. 
Will travel in foreign countries. aving ancestral pro- 
perty; miserable in hia prime owing to the loss of children. 


6. Venus.—Leading no happy life even though he bea 
friend of kings. Extravagant; will travel on sea. 


7. Saturn.—Will suffer from bile, defective in a leg, 
will be put to shame by kings. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will suffer from 
poisonous diseases. Will have many enemies. Miserable 
an his prime. 

WHEN Aquagius IS THE 9TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—An influential man in the State. Loss of 
parents in youth. A famous man. 


2. Moon.—Loss of money. His family will become 
extinct. 


3. Mars.—A sickly father. Will make enemies with 
his superiors. Uncharitable. 


4. Mercury.—Having wise and wealthy parents and 
many wives. Loss of mother's side in his youth. Will be 
blessed with a few children. 


5. Jupiter.—An observer of religious principles. A 
charitable man. An influential man in the State owing to 
his skill in logic; good-natured. Will be blessed with 
children through his second wife. 


6. Venus. —Royal fortune from youth. Wealth through 
women. 


7. Saturn.—A debtor. Loss of ancestral property 
either from theft or law-suits. Will bea vulgar volup- 
tuary. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &cC. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Hisparents will live 
long. Loss of ancestral property. Loss of fame in prime. 


WHEN PISCES IS THE 10TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Having no ancestral property. Loss of father 
in youth. Famous in his prime. 


2. Moon.—A_ landlord, will lose ancestral property. 
Will be unhappy even if he has immense wealth. Fortune 
and misfortune coming alternately. Loss of mother's side 
in youth. Will be master of another's property without 
any endeavour on his part. 


3. Mars.—Will be involved in troubles on account of 
his situation. A non-observer of religious principles. 


4. Mercury.—Will have a knowledge of the divine truth. 
Will have good fortune daring the latter part of his life. 
Having small ancestral property. Will have a tendency to 
revere foreign religion. Will not become famous in spite 
of his profound learning. 


5. Jupiter.—Good-natured. An observer of good prin- 
ciples. Independent, a great landlord and a wealthy man 
in old age. Will he unhappy because of not having an- 
cestral property. 

6. Venus.—Having many wives. Extravagant. A 
traveller in distant countries. Loss of fame and wealth 
through women. A happy man aud a high officer in old 
age. 

7. Saturn.—Will hold a low appointment. Will always 
speak ill of religion. A forger. A _ sceptic. Having a 
sarcastic turn of mind, stubborn. 

8&9. Dragon's Head and Tail._—Wealthy. A_ well- 
wisher. Shameless, taking no interest in observing re- 
ligious principles. A traveller; will change religion. Will 
he a wicked man and will he punished in youth. 


WHEN ARIES IS THE 11TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will inherit wealth from his brothers or re- 
latives. Famous by descent. Will be blessed with brothers. 


2. Moon.—A wealthy and a fortunate man. Honourable, 
will have many sisters. His mother's side will be happy 
at first, but will be involved in troubles afterwards. Will 
suffer from consumption, very subject to colds. Original in 
taste and ideas. Miserable in his second wife. 


56 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C [CHAP. 


3. Mars.—Loss of brother's farsily and much money ; 
will make a good surgeon or soldier. A debtor, even 
though he be a great landlord. 


4. Mercury.—Will know something of many languages. 
Unhappy in youth. Will be exiled; will lead a happy life 
by being tutor to princes from his prime. Will have 
friends among scientific men. 


5. Jupiter.—Atfirst a teacher, then a newspaper editor, 
and lastly a famous independent officer (as a lawyer) in the 
State. Will be blessed with children. Honourable. 


6. Venus.—Lossof a fortunate brother in his prime. A 
landlord, and an owner of grand buildings. Authoritative 
situation and happiness in his prime. 


7. Saturn.—Lossof acquired wealth by granting loans. 
Loss of ancestral property. Unfortunate brothers, having 
mental suffering. Happy in youth but miserable in age. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tatl.—A fickleminded man. 
Partial good fortune in his prime through a king. Afflictions 
from brothers. 


WHEN TAURUS IS THE 12TH HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—Havingwealth and pleasure by illegal means. 
Fortunate from his prime owing to acquaintance with kings 
in foreign countries. 


2. Moon.—A servant of petty kings. Happy for a short 
time. Quarrels with mother's side. A sailor. Will main- 
tain himself by different occupations. A debtor. 


3. Mars.—A magistrate ; a drunkard ; haughty; fortu- 
nate from his prime, Loss of fortune through misconduct. 

4, Mercury.—Will live by learning a useful language 
and by the favour of kings. Having no happiness from 
ancestral property, will be involved in troubles through 
females. A preacher. 


5. Jupiter.—Willlive by his knowledge of law and 
science, fortunate and famous from his prime. Very intelli- 
gent, happy in his second wife. 

6. Venus.—Havinga good vehicle and a comfortable 
living. Kingly fortune through females. Loss of an- 
cestral property and acquisition of new lands and wealth. 

7. Saturn.—Will wander idly in many countries. 
Having private and deceitful enemies, will live by car- 


xv.] TWELVE SIGNS or ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 57 


pentry, &c. Will not follow a particular profession for a 
long time. Will be miserable and unfortunate by the dis- 
turbance of kings. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Will make enemies 
aud will be quarrelsome. A debtor. A magician; an 
instrument maker. Will travel in foreign countries. Will 
lose his fame iu his prime, will be happy in his old age. 


CANCER. 


One born under Cancer will be of a tall figure, of a 
dim color, will be fond of walking, a traveller to many 
countries, a wealthy landlord reaping good harvests, will be 
blessed with many children, will have his mouth or face 
deformed, will be of a good disposition, will be of an evil 
smell, will revere his teacher, his veda, and his shastras, will 
be immoral, will have moles in hidden parts, will suffer from 
disease iu his old age, will be subject to risk iu the Sth, 
16th, 20th, and 25th years of his life. 


WHEN CANCER IS THE 1ST HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Hisbody will be hot, will have a bright color, 
and be of a tall figure, will have a good reputation, will 
suffer from stomach-ache iu the middle of his life and will 
be easily restored. 


2. Moon.—Will be long-lived, will be of a bright color, 
will inherit some property from his mother's side. 


3. Mars.—Will live to the age of 560; will suffer from 
itches aud boils; will be of a black color. 


4. Mercury.—Will be short; color fair; will have a 
modest tongue ; will waste his ancestral property; will not 
live long. 


5. Jupiter.—In the beginning as well as in the end of 
his life will be involved in serious litigation ; will live long; 
will be a friend of kings; will suffer from venereal disease. 


6. Venus.—Will be of a scarlet color; will be a very 
happy man ; will not brook shame; will live a long life; will 
be a wealthy landlord, having a good house and good vehicles; 
will be a good politician ; will follow a temporal walk of 
life ; will have many brothers. 


7. Saturn.—Will be of a black colour and tall figure; 
will waste the little that he inherits ; will be of a corpulent 


58, TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC aT BIRTH, &.  [CHAP. 


and bilious constitution; will suffer from venereal disease ; 
will be an apostate. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willbe a leper; will 
live in foreign countries; will live to a good old age ; will 
haye.a light body and a tall figure; will be emaciated-by 
disease; will be involved in much litigation throughout 
his life. 

WHEN LEO IS THE 2NB HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will be a wealthy man; will suffer from an 
affection in the eyes and be soon restored; will have an 
influential voice in all matters; will be happy as a king 
from the middle of his life; will be rewarded. with lands and 
righea by kings; will generally have his expectation realized. 


2; Moon.—His family will incur a severe loss; will be 
entangled in litigation ; will suffer from affections of the 
eye ;. will be a very poor man. 


3. Mars.—Will belong to a consumptive family ; will 
have many enemies ; will lose all his property in early years ; 
will be able to make a good fortune for himself. 


4. Meroury.—Will speak many languages; will be a 
wise man; will be moderately rich ; will, in his early years, 
suffer from hereditary consumption, and in his old age will be 
happy; will be a chronic debtor. 


5. Jupiter.—Will inherit abundant riches; will destroy 
all his riches; will be a debtor; will have many enemies 
anf many defeats in his worldly callings. 


6. Venus.—Will have a family mainly constituted of 
females ; will become opulent; will have a mellifluous voice ; 
will have good landed estates and extensive power; from 
his youth he will be fortunate and grow rich. 


7. Saturn.—In his youth he will have to encounter 
domestic quarrels, losses, and miseries; will be very poor ; 
will be a chronic debtor ;‘will suffer from sore affliction in 
the eye. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Will be very rich ; 
will in his manhood acquire property by illicit means; will 
have many enemies; will be an irascible person ; will have 
bad smelling breath; will in his manhood suffer from royal 
disfavour; will raise many enemies during the continuance 
of, his royal dignity and will soon be entangled in great 
difficulty. 


XV.] Twrrve SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &. 59 


WHEN VIRGO IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will have consumptive brothers; ‘will he en- 
tangled in difficulty owing to the mischiefs of his brothers ; 
in his youth his brothers will be very prosperous, but in 
manhood will have a hard lot. 


2. Moon.—Will have many brothers ; will enjoy a little ; 
will be prosperous in his old age. 


3. Mars.—Wi ll have no brothers; if he has brothers 
he will in his manhood suffer from disease; if he has 
daughters he will suffer much in his youth as well as in his 
old age, will lead a miserable life. 


4. Mercury:—Will have ‘brothers and sisters ; will Be 
learned ; will be unfortunate; will become prosperous in 
middle life; will live in foreign countries. 


5. Jupiter:—Willhave many brothers,; will be uxhappy 
in his manhood owing to the reverses of his brothers; win 
be versed in music, the secret sciences, &. 


6. Venus.—Will be fortunate in his sisters ; will waste 
much of his wealth on females; will be deformed ;< will be 
versed in various arts; will be a slave for some days; will 
acquire regal dignity in brs-manhood ; even that will soon fly 
away; will have favours from princes. 


7. Saturn.—Will have a weak brother; in his manhood 
will encounter miseries on account of his brother ; will in- 
herit no property; will marry an ugly, deformed, bad smelling 
wife; will be bereft of his paternal ancestors in his youth ; 
will lose his means of livelihood in old age; his Sons will 
be invalids. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will have no brothers 
or sisters; will try to become an apostate; will be up to 
any mean action ; will be a slave; will suffer much in his 
old age; will spend all his manhood in travels, troubles, 
and losses. 

WHEN LIBRA IS THE 4TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Will lose his ancestral landed property, &c.; 
will suffer in his old age; will lose bia house and vehicles ; 
will be bereft of parents in his youth; will hate his family. 


2. Moon.—Will be bereft of his maternal ‘ancestors ; 
Will have a small landed estate and a small house’; will be 
versed in some arts. 


60 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. [CHAP. 


3. Mars.—Will have no house, no land, no vehicle; in 
his manhood will depend upon others and yet be happy ; 
will be bold; will spend his last years in ease aud comfort ; 
can speak many tongues. 


4. Mercury.—Will have very few relations on his mother's 
side, will be poor ; cannot expect any help from his brothers; 
will know the rudiments of arithmetic and medicine; will 
not be happy; will risk his name and lose his property in 
extravagant trades, and aspirations to royal position ; will 
be a traveller to various foreign countries. 


5. Jupiter.—Will be an enemy to his maternal relations ; 
will lose his lands in liquidating his debts ; will, in his 
search after gain, incur defeat and shame. 


6. Venus.—Will temporarily have land and a vehicle ; 
will be happy for some days; unhappy afterwards; will be 
well versed in the language of the ruler: will yet shine 
only as a lamp burning within a pitcher. 


7. Saturn.—Will have a deformed wife ; will lose his 
parents in his youth, and his sisters and brothers in their 
prime; will have no permanent house, land or vehicle till his 
old age; will be fortunate in his children. In his manhood 
he will lose his means of livelihood owing to no mistake on 
his part ; will suffer many reverses ; will thereafter depend 
for maintenance upon a lord. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Will destroy his 
maternal ancestors ; will fall from his vehicle and fracture 
some part of his body ; will suffer many ills in his manhood. 


WHEN SCORPIO IS THE 5TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Will have many children ; will be much in- 
debted on that account, though in his old age he will 
become wealthy through his sons, will not enjoy happiness, 
will live like a rajah ; iu middle age will temporarily suffer 
without means of livelihood. 


2. Moon.—Will lose his children; cannot expect any 
happiness from his children; will have descendants; will 
not be very wise; will stoop to mean occupations. 


3. Mars.—Will be unfortunate in his youth and will be 
engaged in much litigation; will be happy in his later 
years; will have many children; will love his children 
much; will have substantial landed estate. 


XV.] TWELVE 8IGN& OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 61 


4. Mercury.—Willhave unfortunate children; will havé 
many wives; till middle age will not firmly adhere to one 
calling but will be always changing; will not be fortunate, 
though master of many arts; will not be happy; on the 
whole a miserable man. 


5. Jupiter.—Wilknjoy regal happiness in his later life; 
will have many children ; will have ahigh sense of honour; 
will be a genius; will be a deep thinker; will be a lord ; 
will be a sage; will be a laver of his own religion. 


6. Venus.—Wilhave sons who will die soon; will have 
female descendants; will be a weak man; will have no 
ancestral estate; will make a fortune for himself, and live 
a king; is likely to lose his fortune all on a sudden. 


7. Saturn.—Wilbe unhappy in his children; will have 
an ugly, deformed wife; in his old age will be miserable on 
account of his famous brothers; will be miserable though he 
live as aking, will have fortunate children by his second wife; 
will lose as soon as he earns; will not have any ancestral 
estate. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Iuhis later years 
will have many children by his second wife; will lead a 
precarious life; will be miserable. 


WHEN SAGITTARIUS IS THE 6TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Wilbe involved in serious quarrels on account 
of money transactions; will be a debtor; will be a blot 
upon his father’s prestige ; owing to his unquenchable anger 
will suffer various losses, miseries and shame. 


2. Moon.—Willsuffer from cutaneous diseases; will be 
involved in many quarrels; will suffer from asthma, will not 
live long. 

3. Mars.—Willbe an enemy to many nobles and kings; 
in middle age will suffer much; will lose all his lands; 
though he will inherit paternal property will not be happy; 
will suffer from corruption of blood. 


4. Mercury— Will create for himself many enemies on 
account of his brothers; will bean invalid; will be very 
weak and diseased; will have no maternal ancestors; will 
live in a foreign land; will not be happy though expert in 
many arts. 


5. Jupiter.—Willin middle age become an enemy of 


62 TWELVE s1Gx8 OF ZODIAC AT sretH, &c. [CHAP. 


his friends and brother; will mm: ‘middle age suffer much ; 
will be a chronic debtor. 


6. Venus.—Will lose all his wealth and position by 
debauchery; will always be involved in quarrels; will 
suffer from venereal disease ; will lose his wife, house, and 
vehicle in his youth; will enjoy very little in his later years. 


7. Saturn.—Will defeat his enemy; will be a clever 
blacksmith and an expert in various arts ; will be ‘happy in 
his later years; will suffer fromnervous diseases in his legs 
and neck. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willdefeat his enemy ; 
will be hated by many and-will ‘be involved in serious liti- 
gation in middle age; will suffer from cutaneous diseases ; 
will be a debtor; will be a good mechanist ; will be a good 
sargeon ; will be a traveller. 


WHEN CAPRICORN 18 THE 7TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will saffer much through females; will be a 
slow enjoyer; will in later years incur the hatred of the king 
and be ruined ; will travel to various countries to obtain his 
livelihood ; will be an expert in mensuration. 


2. Moon.— Will be happy in his wife; will in the middle 
of his life succeed in some commercial enterprise and become 
opulent. 


3. Mars.—Will have good landed estates; will always 
triumph in argument; will become famous in his after life; 
will be an intrepid man. 


4. Mercury.—Will not have much happiness in his second 
wife ; will have a host of enemies; will lose much of his 
wealth ; will suffer much loss and misery iu middle life. 


5. Jupiter.—Willnot be very happy; though expert 
in many arts will be miserable ; will be a bankrupt; will 
suffer from heart disease; will lose all his little fortune in 
middle life in liquidating old debts; will not firmly adhere 
to one calling. 


6. Venus.—Will not possess his handsome wife for long ; 
will have some property for himself; his wife will be a source 
of quarrel; will be very happy after he passes middle 
age. 

7. Saturn.—Will marry two wives; will be miserable; 
will Waste his ancestral property; will betiach troubled hy 


TWELVE 8JGN& OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 63 


cares and anxieties in: his-old. age ; will, not be happy in. his 
sons; he will be an enemy of, many; on account ot his wife ; 
will be a chronic debtor; will be; ever involved. in litiga- 
tions. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and, Tail._—Will be involved in 
litigation on account of: hia ancestral property ; will be 
very angry; will waste all his property ; will depend for 
his maintenance on many ; will marry many wives. 


WHEN AQUARIUS IS THE. 8TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Wiall die prematurely; will, suffer from ner- 
vous diseases. in. the prime, of, life; will be a. bankrupt; 
will, not, be happy, ; either, his.father or the king; will, be the 
qause of his sorrow and anxiety, in.the prime of life. 


2. Moon.— Will be short-lived; will be consumptive ; 
will suffer. much on. account, of,aome loss on his mother's 
side. 


3. Mars.—Will die of gout:. will fall from a horse and 
fracture his. limb,; in, middle, life will, lose his property and 
be miserable. 


4. Mereury.—Will rather injure than better himself by 
education; will always be servile-; will be a pauper; will 
live ta a, tolerably, good age. 


5. Jupiter.—Will‘live ta agood old age; will be a bank- 
rupt; when he is on the threshold of prosperity will lose it 
on account of some quarrel with the king; will be tempo- 
rarily defamed in middle life. 


6. Venus.—- WilMive to-a good old age; will defend his 
wife's property ; will fall from a. horse and have some limb 
permanently diseased ; will hate his wife and be miserable ; 
will suffer from venereal diseases. 


7. Saturn.—Willlive a very long life ; will have a bili- 
ous and corpulent constitution and suffer from venereal 
diseases ; will be.sickly in his youth. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail—Bankrupt; will be the 


cause of many quarrels in middle life. 
WHEN PISCES IS THE 9TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.---Will:haves sig¢kly father; will be bereft of all 
his maternal, ancestors in his, youth.; will lose his ancestral 
property; will waste his property in preparations against 
kings and in courts; will be miserable in his old age. 


TWELVE SIGNS OF zODIa¢ AT BIRTH, &€. [CHAP. 


2. Moon.—Will have fortune from mother's side ; will be 
bold; will possess fertile lands in middle life as well as in 
old age ; will be very charitable. 


3. Mars.—Will inherit substantial ancestral property ; 
will be bereft of his parents; will be very voluptuous; will 
be tyrannical and far from charitable. 


4. Mercury.—Will inherit very little ancestral property; 
will in the prime of life lose his paternal ancestors; will be 
a versatile manufacturer. 


5. Jupiter.—Will lose all his ancestral property ; will af- 
terwards make for himself a good fortune; will have many 
happy children ; will "be a minister or adviser and conquer 
many obstacles ; will practise yoga; will he a man of good 
conduct. 


6. Venus.—Will be involved in serious quarrels on ac- 
count of his female paternal relatives ; will earn his food in 
court; will have princely brothers. 


7. Saturn.—Hispaternal line will become extinct; will be 
much troubled by various cares and anxieties ; will be a pau- 
per from his youth ; after middle life will make his own for- 
tune ; will not stick to one mode of life or one locality. 


8. Dragon’s Head and Tatl._—Will have ancestral pro- 
perty ; his fortune will decrease in the middle of his life ; will 
be very miserable ; will incur much sorrow through his wife 
and brothers; will lose his parents in middle life ; will be a 
bankrupt ; will be bold. 


WHEN ARIES IS THE 10TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will have much ancestral estate ; his parents 
will live long; from his youth he will be regarded with 
favour by the Government; will be a famous man; will have 
estates in various quarters. 


2. Moon.—Destined to be a king; will have a high 
sense of honour ; will be subject to many ills; though he is 
an expert in many arts will not earn much by them ; will be 
happy in old age; will be a master of lands and houses. 


3. Mars.—In middle life will find a deal of difficulty 
in earning his livelihood; though he exercises power in 
many places will in the end save nothing ; will have brothers 
equally fortunate; will suffer misery on account of some 
reverses to his famous brother. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH: &. 65 


4. Mercury.—Willbe unfortunate in his brothers; will 
have a high sense of honour; will earn his livelihood from 
many ; will be a famous wise man; his fame will be dimmed 
in his old age. 

5. Jupiter.—Willfor a long time enjoy regal happiness ; 
will in middle life unexpectedly become the king of some 
foreign place; will for some time be a tutor; will be very 
fortunate afterwards, but will become poor in bia old age. 


6. Venus.—Will speak very mellifluently; will be a 
dealer in gems; will be subject to misery on account of his 
wife ; will be very miserable in his old age. 


7. Saturn.—Willbe unfortunate from his yonth; will 
then lose all his wealth and lands; will be a shameless man ; 
will be successful in all undertakings ; will be a professional 
liar; will be clever in mean arts and jugglery; will mix in 
mean company ; will do very unbecoming things. 

8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Willbe of an angry 
disposition ; will subsist by war; will lose his means of liveli- 
hood in middle life; will lose his honour; will become rich. 

WHEN TAURUS IS THE 11TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Willsucceed to his brother's wealth, house, and 
land; will not be fortunate; in middle life will have 
nothing more than bare maintenance; eveu this will be in- 
termittent. 

2. Moon.—Will have good crops and be wealthy; will 
be very timid; will have many sisters. 

8. Mars.—Will have many brothersyet will be unhappy ; 
will be miserable; will lose his ancestral landed estate in 
his youth, but later he will regain it all; will be fortunate 
in his old age. 

4. Mercury.—Willhave no ancestral property ;will make 
a paltry fortune for himself; will have no settled locality till 
his old age; will spend charitably more than he earns ; will 
be a sage. 

5. Jupiter.—Will be a baukrupt; will have a keen sense 
of honour; will in middle life suffer misery on account of 
reverses to his brother; will have a second wife. 

6. Venus.—Willbe slightly indebted ; will inherit a good 
estate through his wife; will lose his first wife; will have 
fortunate sisters. 


66 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &. [CHAP. 


7. Saturn.—Willnot have happy brothers; by fair or 
foul means will take hold of others’ property ; will be great 
and fortunate ; will be very fortunate in his later years. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Will in middle 
life be entangled in dissensions among his brothers; will 
never have permanent substantial estete; will in his old 
age lose the high post which he enjoys; will be very weak; 
will have very little ancestral property ; witthavea deformed 
wife. 

WHEN GEMINI IS THE 12TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Willhave no ancestral property; will be be- 
reft of parents in his youth; will have Government employ- 
ment in foreign places; after middle life will begin a new 
mode of life; will be bankrupt. 


2. Moon.—Will be very weak; will not like nice delicate 
food and bed; will be a saviour of the world; will not be 
vain ; will travel to distant places. 


3. Mars.— Willtravel to various places; will be a tyrant ; 
will fall into disrepute in middle life. 


4. Mereury.—Will try various trades in various places, 
and at last adhere to commerce ; will barter his knowledge 
for money; will be happy ; will be a philanthropist. 


5. Juptter.—Willbe well versed in the shastras and will 
be a tutor; a man of good heart; will help in time ; will be 
a philanthropist; will not care for his own interest. 


6. Venus.—Willhave good vehicles and be very happy ; 
will cross the sea ; will succeed to good property through 
his wife; will be a good debater. 


7. Saturn.~Willnot stick to one trade; will travel to 
foreign countries for nothing; will fall into disrepute by hav- 
ing treasonable intercourse with foreign princes; will be a 
bankrupt. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.— Will travel to foreign 
countries to earn his livelihood ; will at first suffer much and 
in his later years become very happy; will be engaged in 
two different trades in his youth and old age; will be a 
bankrupt; will earn a livelihood by litigation; will suffer 
much in the middle of his life ; will be happy in his old age; 
will succeed in protracted litigation. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 67 


LEO. 


One born in Leo will be fond of eating, devoted to God, of 
a charitabledisposition, will possess metaphysical knowledge, 
will have in youth shadow-like diseases (i.e., not real but 
imaginary), butthey will pass away, will be fond of his own 
profession, will help the public, will have fever in 5th, 10th 
and 27th years and months after birth. 


WHEN LEO IS THE 1ST HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Longlife and fame, of tall stature, will have a 
high sense of respect, and will have a high temperature. 


2. Moon.—In middle life (i.e., up to 66), a wanderer from 
place to place, eloquent, of an argumentative disposition, in 
youth addicted to unlawful sexual pleasure; an epicurean, 
will do good to the public, will in youth be subject to the 
abuse of supporting religions other than his own, of short 
stature and delicate health. 


8. Mars.—Short-lived,will have a body much disfigured 
in youth by ulcers, carbuncles, and wounds by weapons, 
will possess hereditary estates, and be one after whose birth 
the property will be lost to the family ; in old age will 
suffer from piles. 

4. Mereury.— Will, though of an improving family and 
decent living, not enjoy the fruits thereof, will have a mind 
full of cares, of middle life, of a proportionate body, but a 
bilious constitution. 


5. Jdupiter.—Willbe successful in all his undertakings, 
scrupulous about formalities and religious ceremonies, very 
just aud pious. 

6. Venus.—Will be versed in many languages and 
skilled in many arts, will live up to middle age, will 
squander all his wealth in profligacy, will suffer from cutane- 
ous diseases. 


7. Saturn.—Black, ugly, and spiteful, will commit 
mean actions and argue sophistically, and will be a heretic 
addicted to actions and systems quite opposed to his own 
nationality and religion. Will suffer in youth and in old 
age. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Will be very clever 
and acute in argument, will’not he happy though able to 


68 TWELVE 8iGN& OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &&. [CHAP. 


carry on with energy many trades and manufactures, will be 
subject to infamy in middle age, short-lived, will commit 
actions not consisteut with his own nationality and family, 
a misanthropist, will live by tale-bearing, perjury and for- 
gery. 

WHEN VIRGO IS THE 2ND HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—-Willsquander his wealth iu his life time though 
rich by inheritance, will have a commanding aud a _ kind 
tongue, rich in old age, will have his eye-sight spoiled in 
the end, will earn landed property. 


2. Moon.—Will not live with his family though blest 
with a large one, a charming talker, will have no ancestral 
property, will have much self-earned property, will be a 


jJack-of -all - trades. 


3. Mars.—Poor, hot-tempered, will possess lands, and 
suffer from eye-diseases. 


4, Mercury.—Hissight will be dimmed in middle age, 
will be a learned speaker, courageous, will have elder 
brothers and sisters iu good positions, rich. 


5. Jupiter.—Wilhave estates though in debt, steady 
and strict in speech and promise, will have lauds, will have 
alarge improving family and riches, and iu middle age 
will have good prospects aud fortune, and immediately his 
prosperity will wither away. 


6. Venus.—Though versatile and skilled in many tac- 
tics, will not be benefited by them till middle age, will 
have an enticing tongue, will be poor. 


7. S&aturn.—A terrible liar, a pauper, will lose his 
wealth by civil suits, by damages, and speculations ; an 
epicurean in youth, and in after life unhappy, his family 
wit bein distress and he will be a follower of many religions. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—A tale-bearer, a 
troublesome spirit, a poor man, will be infamous in middle 
age, will be a victim of royal oppression in middle age, 
will squander almost all his ancestral estates, and will in 
after life have limited means. 


WHEN LIBRA IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Willhave few brothers aud sisters, all his pro- 
jects will end in failure, will be ever vexed by cares and 
anxteég, will suffer from bleeding and pain in the ears. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 69 


2. Moon.—Will suffer from syphilitic disease, will be by 
profession a menial servant, and happy in foreign lands 
through the help of his brothers. 


3. Mars.—Will have no brothers and sisters, courage- 
ous, will have affections in the head and the chest, and in 
middle age will be distressed by calamities of brothers and 
sisters. 


4. Mercury.—Will have brothers that will become 
wandering ascetics, will lose his ancestral property, little 
learning, little spirit and courage, and his spirits will be 
damped in middle age. 


5. Jupiter.—An extremely licentious man, an enemy to 
his brothers and sisters, in distress and trouble on account of 
his father or his brothers and sisters, and in middle age will 
enjoy short-lived prosperity. 


6. Venus.—Will be in debt through women, will have 
taste and skill in music, will be skilled in the art of negotia- 
tion and the art of punishment. 


7. Saturn.—~-Willhave brothers and sisters in distress, 
a large number of brothers and sisters, in youth will have 
his attempts frustrated by ill-health, will attempt in youth to 
follow a religion lower than his own, will love a wife not very 
fair, will never stoop to do menial service, will be rich and 
influential through his wife, will first lose and then regain 
his ancestral estates. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willhave few brothers 
and sisters, prosperous in middle age, will know many 
ways of success, will have disease in the ears in youth, will 
despise sensuous pleasure and will become a sage. 


WHEN SCORPIO IS THE 4TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will not enjoy, even if he has old houses and 
estates, will be happy in middle age ; with new prosperity 
will have his parents living till his old age, his parental 
side will decay. 


2. Moon.— Will regret his mother's death in youth, will 
be adopted by another family, will not have house and lands 
at first but will obtain them afterwards, will have energetic 
commercial enterprises with far-off lands. 


3. Mars.—Will live by lands and temporary appoint- 
ments, will lose his mother in middle age, or will have a 


70 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &€: [cHar. 


sickly mother, will have no chance to enjoy his father's estate 
though he possesses it, will be rich and famous through his 
brothers. 


4. Mercury.—Will lose his ancestral estates, will earn 
little in old age, will have a strong sense of self-respect, will 
be sorry on account of calamities on the mother's side, will 
acquire others' property, will have little learning. 


5, Jupiter.—Willbe proficient in the arts of ruling, ethics, 
and legal studies. Will acqnire riches by his learning from 
middle age, and in old age will be prosperous and happy 
with newly-acquired lands and houses. 


6. Venus.—Will lose his lands, etc., through profligacy, 
will reside in foreign lands, will be skilled in the art of 
trading and be learned, will be happy in youth, and in old 
age will suffer from distress. 


7. Saturn.—Will lose all landed estates, will lose his 
parents in youth, will be vexed with cares and sorrows, will 
prosper by dint of zeal and with self-acquired riches in 
after-life, will be fickle in attempts. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Willtravel from land to 
land, will not be happy in the end, even after many at- 
tempts and holding many lucrative places of power, and the 
maternal side will first be in the zenith of prosperity, but 
afterwards decay. 

WHEN SAGITTARIUS IS THE 5TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Will be illustrious in name and have royal 
grandeur from middle age ; famous, will be strong in his 
sense of respect, a traveller to many countries, will be a 
chief dispenser of royal justice, will in old age achieve royal 
glory, and will have many sons. 


2. Moon.—Will have no sons but will have daughters, 
a sage, will not shine in spite of his attainments and learn- 
ing, will lose his ancestral property first and then acquire 
very limited means, will be happy through the joy and 
prosperity on the maternal side, loss of father in youth, 
very intelligent, slow and gloomy, will travel to far-off 
lands, a philanthropist. 

3. Mars.—Hot tempered and harsh, will have no happi- 
ness through his sons, will have rude and wicked sons, will bea 
happy through the wife's side. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 71 


4. Mereury.—Willhave wealth and gain in old age, will 
be vexed with cares and anxieties and ever anxious in youth, 
a sage versed in ethical studies. 


5. Jupitter.—Of a good disposition, will have sons at a 
later age, will be slow in all things ; though rich by his skill 
in the art of ruling and knowledge of regal arts, will care for 
nothing, will be unlucky in youth, will be a little in debt, 
will have a strong sense of respect. 


6. Venus.—Anenemy to his own sons and father, will 
spoil his estates through his love for women, and in middle 
age be a victim to royal oppression. 


7. Saturn.—Willhave no sons, will have many wiveB, 
very lustful, will have nervous diseases, will be by profession 
a killer and murderer, will believe in nothing, and trust 
nobody, will be a daring murderer and ruffian. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Will be sorry on ac- 
count of his sons, a heathen or an infidel, will be subject to 
infamy in middle age, will be in debt, will prefer the many 
irreligious trades in life. 


WHEN CAPRICORN IS THE 6TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—An enemy to one's own relations; will, in 
middle age, suffer much by royal oppression, will be vexed 
with cares, will have diseases in the eyes and bowels; and 
even in youth will have many law-suits and enmities, and 
will not be happy. 


2. Moon.—Will suffer in middle age from many injuries 
consequent upon the displeasure of foreign kings, but will 
be relieved of his troubles, will suffer from consumption in 
old age and will be in debt. 


3. Mars.—Willsuffer on account of inveterate hatred, 
but will subsequently triumph over his adversaries; of very 
rude behaviour and in middle age will first suffer wrongs 
from kings and then triumph over them. 


4. Mereury.—Will have no enemies, no wealth, will have 
a delicate constitution, will have disease in the eyes, and 
be moderate in his pleasures and enjoyments. 


5. Jupiter.—Willlose his wealth through partition suits, 
in middle age and old age will suffer many troubles, and 
in old age will be subject to infamy, loss of property, 
and poor living. 


72 Twi.ve SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. [CHAP. 


6. Venus.—Willlose much of his wealth through women, 
will be in debt, will suffer from syphilitic diseases, will be of 
an unsettled mind, will suffer by enmity, and have sorrow on 
account of his wife, and will be unhappy. 


7. Saturn.—Thoogh he conquers his enemies, will still 
have some, in middle age will be subject to fear of oppres- 
sion, will have sorrow on account of his wife, unhappy. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Dragon's Tail. — Will conquer 
his enemies, will have a strong sense of respect, will earn much 
wealth and then lose it, and inthe end be distressed; will 
suffer from the ruin of the families of his brothers and 
sisters, and suffer from chronic diseases in bones. 


WHEN AQUARIUS IS THE 7TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Willalways be in disputes and serious quarrels, 
will be injured by the State, and give up his attempts there- 
by and, though his wife may live with him long, he will not 
be happy. 


2. Moon.—Will have many wives, will have a sickly 
wife, will make voyages. 


3. Mars.—Very lustful, will be very prosperous, from 
middle age will be very stubborn in disputes. 


4. Mereury.—Will have many wives, but will have no 
happiness from them, and in middle age will engage iniufa- 
mous pursuits. 


5. Jupiter.—Will become very rich through wife's side 
and by dint of his own exertions, will have only one wife, 
of virtuous behaviour, in youth will suffer many troubles and 
be in debt. 


6. Venus.—Will be a profligate, and through licentious- 
ness will be an enemy to his teachers and elders, will be 
prosperous through women, powerful in the artof speaking, 
and fortunate from youth. 


7. Saturn.—Skilled in all disputes, slow in action, 
deeply contemplative and thoughtful, unscrupulous, shame- 
less, rich by living in foreign lands. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Will lose his name 
and estate through enmity and disputes, a wanderer, will 
get a bad name. 


XY.] TWELVE 61@N@ OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 73 


Wuen PISCES IS THE 8TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will have no ancestral rights, will suffer from 
diseases on account of impure blood and disorders in bowels, 
will have his several attempts frustrated just at the point of 
fruition, by disease will lose paternal side, will have an easy 
death. 


2. Moon.—Will lose his mother and other elders early 
in youth, will have an unsettled mind, debtor, for a time 
a heretic against religion and nationality, and in middle age 
will suffer many troubles, of short life. 


3. Mars.—Of short life; will die a hard death, will lose 
his life by fire, will be in debt, and lose his fortune, of vici- 
ous behaviour. 


4. Mercury.—Of short life ; will die from effects of a fall, 
will be in debt, and in middle age subject to infamy. 


5. Jupitter.—Willbe in debt and poor in spite of his 
great learning and high family, moderate in expenditure, 
will spend his life in preaching. 


6. Venus.—Will have many wives, will get prosperity 
and adversity through women, will suffer in middle age 
and have head-ache. 


7,8, & 9. Saturn, Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willhave 
bilious affections ; in middle age will undergo penalty at the 
hands of the king, and in after years will be happy; will lose 
his wealth and sustain injuries at the hands of robbers and 
enemies. Will lose his estates through enmity, robbers and 
fire, will be afraid, in youth, of oppression, will be in debt, 
a drunkard, extremely vicious. 


WHEN ARIES IS THE 9TH Hocss. 

1. Sun.—Willlose his father in youth, aud his parents 
will not be happy on his account, will be a benevolent 
sage, will be very intelligent and have long life, and in old 
age famous, his property will be spoiled by his relations and 
he will then obtain limited means. 


2. Moon.—Will have many disputes, his maternal side 
will be ruined; will have an unsettled mind, will live to 
middle life, and in middle age lose his father ; though pos- 
sessed of ancestral property will not enjoy it. 


3. Mars.—Though prosperous will enjoy only in old 


74 TWELYE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. [CHAP. 


age, will lose his father iu middle age, will be an enemy to 
hia family. 

4. Mercury.—Will be a proficient in all departments of 
learning, a philanthropist, will for a time be a preacher of 
morals aud subsequently industrious iu the pursuits of life, 
charitable, and in middle age will lose his wife. 


5. Jupiter.—Thoughvery fortunate in middle age, will, 
when old, suffer much, long-lived, wealthy, charitable, will 
have his father alive for a long time. 


6. Venus.—Will lose his parents in youth, will not be 
happy iu spite of his skill aud learning, will have many con- 
veyances, lands and buildings. 


7. Saturn.—Will have his paternal side ruined in 
youth. Will be unfortunate, will have many cares and 
anxieties, will often entertain fears in his mind, and in old 
age will be least happy. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Will lose his father 
in middle age, will have many cares, will entertain malicious 
thoughts, will have a strong sense of respect, in debt, will 
have widespread fame. 


WHEN TAURUS IS THE 10TH HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—Willgain his living by regal arts, will iu the 
end, afterdisputes in the kingdom, triumph, will be famous, 
will be respectful, will do good acts. 


2. Moon.—Will in old age attain high position iu 
foreign lands, will for atime be famous and for a time noto- 
rious, and will make a voyage. 


3. Mare.—Will live by oppression, command many, be 
respectful, become rich, conquer enemies, aud in middle 
age have the power of life and death. 


4. Mercury.—Will live by studies in ethics, medicine 
and accounts, will be very charitable. 


5. Jupiter.—Willlive by deciding disputes in the capa- 
city of a well-known Judge, will do good actions, courage- 
ous, happy aud wealthy by children. 

6. Venus.—Willhave carriages, houses and lauds and 
subsequently lose all, will be very influential and wealthy, 
will live by poetry and various commercial enterprises. 


7. Saturn.—Willbe a slave, a perjurer and a forger, and 


XV.] TWELVE 8I@NS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 75 


in middle age will be wealthy and possess lands aud riohes. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willlive by manufac- 
ture of tools aud machinery and the like, will be respectable, 
will have disputes, debts, cares and troubles, and losses, and 
then be relieved of these, will live in foreign lands. 


WHEN GEMINI IS THE 1 1TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Willhave elder brothers ; wise; a Government 
servant, will lose his position in middle age but will regain it. 

2. Moon.—Learned in many arts; eloquent, will con- 
quer all. 


3. Mars.—Will have no elder brothers ; if he has any 
they will have two wives; will be very fortunate from 
middle age; will dislike Government service; brothers and 
sisters will be childless or their children will die young. 


4. Mercury.—-Will have land and fortune but will spend 
more than he earns. 


5. Jupiter.—Though a debtor, will in middle age, have 
buildings, laud and fame ; will be employed under Govern- 
ment. 


6. Venws.—Willbe miserable towards the beginning and 
close but happy in the middle of life; fortunate through 
women. 


7. Saturn.—No elder brothers; famous through agri- 
culture; will earn his living by litigation and falsehood. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willdo business in 
various countries and will be famous; courageous ; fortune 
earned iu old age will alone last; learned iu arts; will have 
enemies. 


WHEN CANCEB IS THE 12TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—A high servant iu a foreign State; self- 
respecting ; self-sacrificing ; will do public good ; famous. 

2. Moon.—Selfish, will have ordinary living and fame. 
Miserable in the first and happy in the last part of his life; 
self-respecting. Will travel iu foreign lands. 


3. Mars.—Unpatriotic will lose his pursuits in middle 
age aud take to other professions ; will lose old estates. 


4. Mercury.—Will not benefit by his learning ; miser- 
able; poor. 


5. Jupiter.—Famous ;will, in middle age, be in Govern- 


76 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. {cHap. 


ment service, but will lose it though without becoming the 
worse for it; extrvagant. 


6. Venus.—Very happy ; will enjoy many vehicles and 
lands in latter life; famous ; will lose old estates by extrava- 
gance and show. 


7. Saiurn.—Will, in widdle age, be miserable in various 
ways, will be a debtor, losing much; will be rainous to his 
family. 

8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will travel in foreign 
lands, but will not succeed in business; in later life fortu- . 
nate by Government service. Miserable by litigation ; 
miserable in his family and in various ways; ‘in youth’ will 
hate many. 


VIRGO. 


A man born in Virgo will be happy, poor for some 
time, apparently religious, learned in many arts, sickly, 
fortunate in the latter part of his life, in the early part of 
his life, though wealthy, will lose all and be miserable. In 
his 5th, 10th and 18th years he will be subject to several 
diseases, litigious, passionate. 


Wuen Virco is THE lst House. 

1. Sun.—Will lose ancestral property, diseased, tall, 
will lose his father’s side in youth. 

2. Moon.—Subject to diseases from cold, short, short- 
lived. 

3. Mars.—Miserable in youth in various ways; ‘will 
have enemies; short-lived. 

4, Mereury.—Will live to middle life; weak. 


5. Jupiter.—Subject to diseases owing to debility, will 
live to middle life, famous. 

6. Venus.—Will lose wealth and lands in the early part 
of his life, but will regain them in the latter part thereof, self- 
respecting, many wives, long-lived. 

' 7%. Saturn.—Long-lived, very fortunate, self-respecting, 
will be subject to various concerns in middle age. 

8&9. Dragon's Head and Tail._—Short-lived, will lose 


ancestral property, will be either diseased or defective in 
limbs, debtor, enemy to his family. 


xv.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIETH, &C. 77 


Wauen Linea ts THE 2npD House. 


1. Sun.—Debtor, extravagant, miserable on account of 
his family and in various ways, will be miserable through his 
parents in early life. 


2. Moon.—Wealthy after middleage, will have a large 
family, diseased eyes. 


8. Mars.—Miserable on account of his family, litigious, 
will lose lands aud ancestral property. 


4, Mercury.—Short-sighted, will gain fortune by his 
learning, mild of speech, of decent fortuue. 


5. Jupiter.—Though learned in the arts, yet not fortu- 
nate, debtor, large family and many wives. 


6. Venus.—Very wealthy and fortunate, will havea very 
captivating tongue, self-respecting, fortunate by ancestry, 
his father will have two wives, wise, fortunate by trade. 


7. Saturn.—A waning family, du!l-tongued, fortunate 
in the latter part of bis life. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will bave many quar- 
rels in his youth, quarrelsome, will lose parents in youth, will 
lose his fortune, dweller in foreign countries, will conquer 
entity. 

Wauen Scorpio 1s tHE 3rd Hoose. 

1. Sun.—Miserable on account of brothers, fortunate in 
foreign countries, and that fortune will be shared by his 
brothers. 


2. Moon.—Fortunate by his sister, will have many 
comforts, will lose brothers, will suffer much in youth. 


3. Mars.—Will lose ancestral property, lustful, will be 
subject to heart and chest pain. 


4. Mercury.—Will lose brothers in early life, miserable, 
litigious, will suffer in middle age. 


5. Jupiter.—Fond of brothers, fortunate, religious and 
learned in the arts, fortuuate through women. 


6. Venus.—W ill have two wives, fortunate from middle 


7. Saturn.—Will bave few brothers, will be miserable 
on account of brother’s family, will earu others’ wealth, just. 


8&9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Brotherless, debtor, 


78 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. (cHap. 


will lose his property in old age on account of deceit, 
miserable, will be subject to fear from kingly authority in 
middle age. 


Waen Saaittrarivs is tat 4Ta House. 


1. Sun.—Will learn the State language, famous on ac- 
count of ancestral property, honourable, God-fearing, very 
learned, long-lived. 


2. Moon.—Will lose his mother in early life, jack-of-all 
trades, will carry on fraudulent trade, will have various 
kinds of trouble in middle age, but will gain a livelihood 
by carrying on some trade. 


8. Mars.—Will become famous in foreign countries, 
through mother’s relations will learn archery, will lose his 
mother in middle age. 


4. Mercury.—Wealthy through his mother, a miser, 
long life, a landlord, will get permanent gain in middle 
age, a wise man. 


5. Jupiter—Will not become famous in spite of his 


learning, a happy man in the latter part of his age, long- 
lived. 


6. Venus.—Will have many buildings of various kinds 
and different kinds of carriages, will become wealthy in 
middle age, loss of mother in middle age. 


7. Saturn.—Will luse ancestral property at first, but 
afterwards will recover it, honourable, sorrowful, will be 
entangled in civil suits from youth, loss of maternal 
relations while young. 


8&9. Dragon’s Mead and Tail_—Will have to wander 
in different places iu early life, will have happiness and 
sorrow alternately, will have no settled position in life, 
loss of maternal side. 


Wuaen Capricorn Is THE Sta House. 

1. Sun.—Will suffer from diseases arising from heat, 
very intelligent, will be blessed with a son in old age, will 
have some knowlege of astronomy, will feel uneasy, will 
have untimely enjoyments. 


2. Moon.—Will have a daughter, will earn money in 


‘foreign countries or enjoy others’ property, will have few 
elder brothers, will suffer from diseases arising from cold. 


xv.] TWELVE SIGNS OF zODIAC aT BiETH, &c. 79 


3. Mare.—Loss of sons in middle age, will be: en- 
tangled in various troubles in early life, will be happy in 
old age, will havelanded property, will be a good gymnast, 
will have many enemies. 


4. Mercury.—Will enjoy good fortune during the latter 
part of his life, a wise man, honest. 


5. Jupiter.—Loss of ancestral property, will be dis- 
honoured in middle age, will not have long-lived sons, a 
debtor. 


6. Venus.—A wealthy man, will have daughters, well 
skilled in State language, a pleader, will have kingly fortune 
through women in middle age. — 


7. Saturn.—Loss of sons, miserable from early age, will 
lose ancestral property and have to wander in foreign coun- 
tries, will live by base means, of slow perception. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Loss of sons, will 
have few sons in old age, will suffer much from king’s 
anger, a debtor, unfortunate, will have various kinds of 
trouble, will know something of everything. 


Wauen Aquarkivs 1s THE 6TH House. 


1. Sun.—Will lose money through his relations, un- 
happy, much disease, will be dishonoured in middle age. 


2. Moon.—Loss of elder brother’s family, unhappy 
through women, consumptive, miserable, will have to wander 
in middle age in foreign countries. 


3. Mars.—Will be punished by the king in middle age, 
and will lose his a daa loss of brothers, loss of an- 
cestral property, a debtor. 


4, Mercury.—Loss of mother’s family, will do mischief 
to himself, will enjoy untimely happiness, will live to middle 
age, weak constitution. 


5. Juptter.—Happy in old age, honourable, will lose his 
fame and wealth in middle age by becoming a debtor, will 
be put to severe troubles because of his wealth, will not be 
very learned. 


6. Venus.—Will be unhappy in his wife in his prime, will 
commit adultery, what he does hoping that it will turn out 
well will turn out badly, will have serious trouble through 
women. 


TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC aT BIRTH, deg. [CHAR. 


7. Saturn.—Will haveenemies, much disaase , will have 
trouble owing to the king’s anger, bat will afterwards be 
relieved, will be dishonoured in middle age, miserable. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will be much troubled 
by king’s anger, but will afterwards be relieved, much dis- 
ease, a debtor, will have many enemies. 


Wuen Piscxs 1s THE 7TH Houses. 
1. Sun.—An unhealthy wife, unhappy, will quarrel with 
the State, a debtor, loss of wife in middle age, will not 
derive any benefit from his father’s side. 


2. Moon.—Wiilearly marry a good wife, will haye to ua- 
dergo trouble on account of women, will have.a famous 
elder brother, wealthy. 


8. Mars.—Will have quarrelsome wives, unhappy, will 
be a master of others’ property. 


4. Mercury.—Miserable while young, will gain a liveli- 
hood by his learning, will live to middle age, will have many 
wives, a merchant, an arbitrator. 


5. Jupiter.—A noble and wealthy wife, famous through 
his wife’s family, honourable, kingly fortune from middle 
age. 

6. Venus.—Will have a beautiful but disobedient wife, 
very lustful, loss of wife’s property, a judge, will make 
voyages. 

7. Saturn.—Poor but loving wife (not very beautiful), 
the wife will have some defect in her body and will be 
black, will carry on base trade. 

8&9. Dragon’s Heud and Tail._—-Of a weak consti- 
tution, will be unhappy in his wife, wise and -honourable, 
will have no caste distinction and will travel. to various coun- 
tries, miserable in youth but happy in old age. 


Wuen Agizsis THz 8TH House. 

1. Sun.—Will have comfortable meals and bed, untime- 
ly enjoyment, will be unsuccessful in the accomplishment 
of any object at first, but will afterwards gain it; will have 
some trouble owing tohis transactions with the State, but 
will afterwards be relieved from it. 

2. Moon.—Loss of parents in youth, will- have few 
brothers, happy and comfortable in old age, will suffer 
from diseases arising from cold, consumption in middle age. 


- xv.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 81 


38. Mars.—Will have many enemies in middle age, loss 
of ancestral property, a debtor. 


4. Mereury.—Short-lived, of weak constitution, much 
disease, loss of all the members of his family. 


5. Jupiter.—A debtor, will apparently be very fortunate 
at first, but will suddenly be entangled in troubles, some- 
what happy in old age, loss of sons. 


6. Venus.—Happy in youth, miserable in old age, 
loss of ancestral property, loss of wife. 


7. Saturn.—Will be poor and miserable in youth and 
middle age bat wealthy when old, will be successful in 
civil suits, and thus add to his wealth. 


8&9. Dragon’sHead and Tail.—Will suffer from various 
kinds of diseases from an early age, very miserable in 
middle age, will live to middle age, will suffer much from 
poisonous bitesin youth, famous inspite of his being a debtor. 


Waen Tavrvus ts tas 9ta House. 


1. Sun.—Traditional fame, will have ancestral property, 
will become famous through father’s side, kingly fortune, 
somewhat unhappy in youth, very famous in middle age. 


2. Moon.—Will have brothers and kingly fortune, 
hononrable, honest, somewhat miserable in old age. 

8. Mars.—Will be famons only in middle age, loss of 
father’s side, loss of parents in early life. 


4. Mercury.—Loss of father’s side, somewhat fortunate, 
will not be much benefited by his learning. 


5. Jupiter.—Long-lived and fairly well-to-do parents, 
honourable, famous, kingly fortune in old age. 

6. Venus.—Very fortunate and famous from an early age, 
matrimonial felicity. 

7. Saturn.—Miserable in early life, loss of money and 
buildings, fortunate in old age, authoritative. 

8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Proud though wealthy 
and wise, loss of parents in early life, will be very miserable 
in old age, and will wander in foreign countries. 


Waen Gemini is toe 10tTa Hovsre. 


1. Sun.—Will be a handicraftsman in a State, very 
famous in old age, very brave and wealthy. 


82 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. (cuar. 


2. Moon.——Will have many subordinate workmen, will 
lead an honourable life, charitable, will have landed property. 

3. Mars.—Will not have a permanent position in life, 
will lead an independent life. 

4. Mercury.—Will carry on different kinds of trade, 


will have no permanent situation in the early part of his 
life, but will have one in old age. 


. 5. Jupiter.—Will live by learning, a tutor, wise and 
famous. 
6. Venus.—Will teach logic, rhetoric, and Vedanta 
philosophy, kingly fortune, very famous from middle age, 
& judge 


7. Saturn.—Will have subordinates even though he be 
in a low position, will live by dishonest means, will do 
vicious deeds, will have no religious scruples. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will be an artist and 
a mechanician, will become very famous, will wander in 
different countries, wise and charitable. 

WHEN Cancer ts THe lira Hovss. 

1. Sun.—Very extravagant, his elder brother’s family 
will be famous, will become famous. 

2. Moon.—Will earn mach, honourable and charitable. 

3. Marsa.—Will lose ancestral property, a debtor. 

4. Mercury.—Will learn difforent languages, happy in 
old age. 

5. Jupiter.—Famous and wealthy, a lord, kingly fortune 
through brothas, 

6. Venus.—Will have many wives, will have a varied 
and inconstant enjoyment of vehicles. 

7. Saturn.—Will have a quarrelsome wife, a debtor, 


will be dishonoured in middle age. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail._—loss of elder brother’s 
family, increase of wealth, famous and honourable, brave, 
happy in old age, charitable, a persuasive talker. 

Waen Leto 1s tHe l2Ta Hovse. 

1. Sun.—An officer in the State from middle age, 
famous, honourable, fairly wealthy, loss of parents in 
early life. 


xv.] . TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC. AT BIRTH, &C. . 83 


2. Moon.—Will make voyages, unhappy in early life 
bat happy in old age, untimely enjoyment. 


3. Mars.—Will have happiness and sorrow alternately, 
loss of landed property. 


4. Mercury.—Will not derive munch benefit from his 
learning, sorrowful, loss of parents and wealth in middle 
age. 


5. Juptier.—Will become famous by being a just judge 
in foreign countries, very happy, honest, kingly fortune 
in old age. 


6. Venue.—Will have varied and inconstant enjoyment 
of vehicles and buildings, wealthy but indebted, liberal. 


7. Saturn.—Unhappy in early life as well as in old age, 
very famous in middle age, will travel to foreign countries, 
not wealthy, a debtor. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will wander in foreign 
countries, will have no permanent situation, a debtor, very 
miserable in early life and tolerably happy when old. 


LIBRA. 


A man born in Libra will have many wives and chil- 
dren, will attach much respect to his family, wealthy, 
wise, well versed in Yoga philosophy, a friend of kings, 
will suffer from diseases of various kinds in the 7th, 12th, 
19th, 28th, 42nd years of his age. 


Waew Lripea 18 toe Ist Houss. 
1. Sun.—Will suffer from diseases arising from heat, 
will lose his fame in old age, will live to middle age. 


2. Moon.—Rheumatic constitution, wealthy. Will have 
children, will suffer from inflammation of the eye in old age, 
short-lived. 


3. Mars.~-Will have troubles on account of enemies, a 
debtor, will have disorder in the stomach, short-lived. 


4. Mercury.—Will live to middle age, body of moderate 
size, short-sighted, fortunate when old, wealthy. 


5. Jupiter—An observer of religious principles, of good 
temperament; long-lived, well versed in Dharma shastras, 
a wealthy landlord in old age. 


84 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIETH, &C.- (crap. 


6. Venus.—Happy throngh women, long-lived, will have 
a defect either in one of his limbs or in his eye, fortunate 
and famous even while young, happy in his sons. 


7. Saturn.—Willliveto middle age, willsnffermuch from 
bilious diseases, will be dishonoured in middle age, lustful, 
nuhappy, tolerably fortunate when old. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will not have a perma- 
nent footing anywhere, long-lived, fortunate when old, 
will make enemies and suffer from poisonous bites. 


Wuewn Scozpto 1s tae 2np Hovusx. 
1. Sun.—Loss of wealth and brothers in early life, 
tolerably wealthy. : a 


2. Moor.—Will earn much money and learn different 
languages. Honourable, will have few children. 


3. Mars.—A warrior, loss of ancestral property in early 
life, an enemy to his brothers, unhappy, wealthy in old 
age. 

4. Mercury.—A debtor, will have many enemies, will 
learn ‘different languages, loss of elder brother’s family, 
short-lived. 


5. Jupiter—wWill learn foreign languages, loss of 
parents in early life, famous in old age, wealthy and happy. 


6. Venus.—A persuasive talker, honourable, just, lustful. 


*. 7. Saturn.—Poor in early life, will live by base means, 
illiterate, will have no issue, dishonest, will have servants 
in middle age, aud-will become notorious. 

8&9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Will earn money by 
dishonest means, bad tempered, wealthy in old age, quarrel- 
some, despotic, but honourable, inflammation of the eye in 
old age, a warrior. 


Waen Saairrarivs 18 THe Srp Hovse. 

1. Sun.—Will have brothers, and suffer from venereal 
diseases, courageous, famous. Well-versedin the State 
language. 

2. Moon.~-Will have few brothers, a singer, wealthy, 
will derive much benefit through mother’s family. 

3. Mars.—Loss of brothers, honourable, of angry 
temperament, a debtor, will have many enemies, tolerably 
wealthy. 


xv.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &. 85 


4, Mercury.—Will have few brothers, learned and smooth- 
tongued, wise. ° 

5. Jupiter.—Will learn different languages and will 
have many brothers, will not derive much benefit from his 
learning. 

6. Venus.—Loss of brothers in middle age, honourable, 
will be enriched by women of an attractive tongue. 


7. Saturn.—Will be put to difficulties by his brothers, 
sorrowful, poor when young, fairly happy when old. 


- 8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Quarrelsome, will have 
few brothers, of angry temperament. 


Wen Capricorn ts roe 4ta House. 
1. Sun.—Will have ancestral property, famous, loss of 
parents in early life. 


2; Moon.—Will have varied and inconstant enjoyment 
of vehicles, wealthy, will be troubled much by mother’s 
family, a landlord. 

8. Mars.—Loss of ancestral property, a debtor, much 
disease, will be dishonoured in middle age, miserable when 
old. 


4. Mercury.—Will live upon others’ property, a handi- 
craftsman, will suffer from extreme poverty when old. 


5. Jupiter.—Will be fortunate and famous when old, a 
persuasive talker, very charitable, will build temples, inns, &c. 

6. Venus.—Will possess different vehicles, will have an- 
cestral property, will learn the State language, a singer, 
will perform magical feats, somewhat miserable when old, 
will have few children. 


7. Satuwrn.—Will lose ancestral property and become 
extremely poor, will be entangled in difficulties on account 
of his wicked actions in spite of his learning, a debtor. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Will travel in foreign 
countries, will suffer much from diseases of various kinds 
when young, will not be affectionate towards his relations, 
fairly es when old, loss of mother’s family, will be put 
to various difficulties when young, extravagant. 


Wen Aquarius 1s tas STs House. 
1. Sun.—Very famous, lnstful, loss of sons in middle 
age, well-versed in the State language. 


86 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIETS, &c. [cuap. 


2. Moon.—Will live by his learning, famous and honour- 
able, will have children, happy when old, a landlord, will 
recover lost property by civil suits, wealthy. 


S. Mars.—Will not be happy in his sons, will earn 
much money and lose it afterwards, of angry temperament, 
of despotic nature. 


4. Mercury.—Will have few sons by his first wife, an 
artist, honourable. 


5. Jupiter.—Loss of sons, will earn much money and 
lose it on account of his wicked-actions, will become broken- 
hearted by the death of some of his nearest relations. 


6. Venns.—Will have sisters and daughters, very learned 
and intelligent, wise, wealthy,-will incur the displeasure 
of the king in middle age. 


?. .Saturn.—Will become wealthy in old age, will have 
no permanent situation in life, honourable, will have few 
sons, famous in old age, will subdue his enemies. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Loss of sons, will 
suffer much from poverty in middle age, but will become 
fairly happy when old, wise. 


WHIN PISOES IS THE 6TH HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—Will be put to difficulties by his parents, much 
disease, will have many enemies, will lose ancestral property 
but will recover it at last, courageous. 


2. Moon.—Will be an enemy to his mother’s family, will 
be extremely unhappy till middle age, a debtor, loss-of 
landed property. 


3. Mars.—Will have quarrelsome relations, a debtor, 
will lose ancestral property, will suffer much from various 
diseases of the stomach. 


4. Mercury.—Venereal diseases, will wander in foreign 
countries in middle age, a debtor. 


5. Jupiter.—Will find his relations enemies, will not 
have ranch happiness in spite of his proficiency in different 
languages, a debtor, loss of sons. 


6. Venus.—Will be put to much inoonvenience by 
women, will be afflicted with family cares, loss of money. 
7. Saturn.—Will suffer much from a disorder of the 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 87 


liver, all his good prospects will be marred by his enemies, 
will be dishonoured in middle age. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Will have severe 
troubles on account of the king's anger, loss of money, 
change of dwelling, a debtor, will be afflicted with various 
cares. 

WHEN ABIES IS THE 7TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Of noble parentage, will marry a lady of 
noble family, kingly fortune from middle age, a wealthy 
landlord, increase of wealth through brothers. 


2. Moon.—Will have many wives, of kingly fortune, 
will learn different languages by the material assistance of 
his relations. 


3. Mars.—Will become wealthy through his wife, brave, 
increase of wealth by brother’s aid. .. 


4. Mercury.—Honourable, will learn different languages, 
wise, timid but cunning, loss of wife in middle age. 


5. Jupiter.—Happy in his wife, long-lived, will be up- 
right in his dealings even though his occupation be mean, of 
sickly constitution, a debtor, will live comfortably when old. 


6. Venus.—Charitable, famous, will have varied enjoy- 
ment of vehicles, just, will be a subordinate for some 
time and a master at another time, happy from middle age. 


7. Saturn.—Untimely comfort, poor for the greater 
portion of his lifetime, fairly happy when old, will be dis- 
honoured by women in middle age, will have many wives. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tat!.—Willlose much money 
in the attempt to recover ancestral property and will be 
successful in his attempt, wealthy, unhappy in his wife, 
very fortunate when old. 


WHEN TAURUS IS THE 8TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Loss of parents in early life, loss of ancestral 
property, will be entangled in some criminal matters, but 
will afterwards be relieved in middle age, will live to middle 
age. 


2. Moon.—Loss of parents' relations, will have enemies, 
miserable in the former part of his life, but happy in the 
latter, short-lived. 


88 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &&. [CHAP. 


, 38..:Mars.—Will die a cruel death, will be entangled in 
difficulties, unhappy in middle age. 


4. Mereury.—Will live to middle age, happiness and 
sorrow alternately, will be in no way benefited by his learn- 
ing, miserable. 


5. Jupiter.—Long-lived, a debtor, wealthy when old, 
loss of children and brothers in middle age, honest. 


6. Venus.—Will suffer much from diseases of various 
kinds when young, will live somewhat comfortably when 
old, honourable, will live to middle age, will have no female 
issue in his family. 


7, Saturn.—Willbe much troubled by the king, will lose 
honour and fame in middle age, morally bold, short-tived. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Bead and Tail.—Willsuffer from dis- 
eases of a poisonous nature, will be entangled in various 
a debtor, will have anamias. 


WuHen GEMINI 18 THE 9TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will lose much money on account of his 
father’s relations, will be afflicted with cares and sorrows, 
will have ancestral property, honourable, loss of sons in 
middle age. 


2. Moon.—OE noble parentage, dishonest, tolerably rich, 
will teach good principles to others, somewhat famous. 


3. Mars.—Will become known through brothers, miser- 
able when old, a debtor, dishonour will overtake him in 
middle age, but afterwards it will be wiped out. 


4. Mercury.—Will not have much ancestral property, 
wise, charitable, a very learned man and an artist, famous 
when old. 


5. Jupiter.—Long-lived, charitable, will spend much 
money in building inns and giving donations to the poor 
and helpless, God-fearing, famous through brothers. 


6. Venus.—Ancestral fame, honourable, wealthy through 
women, will havea good and accomplished wife, will become 
famous by a new appointment he will obtain when old. 


7. Saturn.—Loss of father's as well as of maternal 
ancle's side, will earn much money, happy, will be honoured 
when old. 


XV.) TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 89 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Willhave civil suits, 
honourable, miserable when young bub happy when old, 
will become master of others' property by illegal means and 
thus become wealthy, loss of sons, will have enemies. 


WHEN CANCER IS THE 10TH Houss. 


1. Sun.—Willhold a very high appointment in the king- 
dom, honourable, famous, very intelligent. 

2. Moon.—A wealthy laudlord, will become famous by 
doing his work satisfactorily, honourable. 

3. Mars___Will lead a servile life, will have trouble 
through treacherous relations in middle age, loss of ancestral 
property, loss of brothers in middle age. 


4. Mercury.—Willcarry on trade, not very learned, 
happy when old, wealthy. 


5. Juptter.—Will become a prime wmivister,%extraordi- 
narily intelligent, very fortunate, happy when old. 

6. Venus.—Willhave varied enjoyment of vehicles, will 
be a teacher at first, but will hold an authoritative appoint- 
ment afterwards, will incur the displeasure of his superiors, 
but will soon win their favour. 

7. Saturn.—Willhave no religious scruples, will give 
false evidence, ill lead a wandering life, dishonest. 

8 & 9. Draqgon’s Head and Tail_—Willbe an enemy to 
his relations, unwise, fickle-minded, irreligious in spite of 
his learning. 

WHEN LEO IS THE 11TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will have brothers, very wealthy, will be 
honoured by kings, very courayeous, will have much ances- 
tral property. 

2. Moon.—Willhave few brothers, will recover certain 
lost property by civil suits, happy in middle age. 

3. Jfars.—Lossof brothers in middle age, will wander 
in different countries and lead an ascetic life. 

4. Mercury.—A jack-of-all-trades, a debtor, luxurious. 


5. Jupiter.—Wise, virtuous, wealthy, + will become 
much indebted in middle age, but will soon be relieved, very 
generous, famous through brothers, happy. 


90 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. [CHAP. 


6. Venws.— Will become wealthy through women, will 
be noble-minded. 


7. Saturn.—Extinction of brother's family, will have 
enemies, of rheumatic constitution, 


8 & 9. Drag on’s Head and Tatl.—Wi11 have no off spri ng, 
will have enemies, a debtor, but will pay his debts when. 
old, well versed in Vedanta philosophy. 


WHEN VIRGO IS THE 12TH HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—Very fortunate when old on account of his 
having been a famous officer in a kingdom, honourable, un- 
happy, of a very obliging nature. 


2. Moon.—Will be a manager of a zemindari or some 
such place, will lead a comfortable life, famous in middle age. 


8. Mars.—Of a despotic nature, honourable, a debtor, 
unfortunate in middle age. 


4. Mereury.—A wholesale merchant, will be put to 
difficulties by the State and thus lose much—m the begin- 
ning, but will recover his loss. 


5. Jupiter.—Atutor, honourable, tolerably wealthy, a 
debtor, loss of sons. 


6. Venus.—Always happy, wealthy, beautiful, honourable 
but fickle-minded. 


7. Saturn.—Fickle-minded, of gentle nature, will be 
entangled in troubles even when young, will earn much and 
lose much, unhappy throughout. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatil.—Willhave no perma- 
nent situation in life, fickle-minded, will have trouble on 
account of money transactions, will have all kinds of enjoy- 
ments when old. 


SCORPIO. 


One born under Scorpio will be very affectionate towards 
his parents and relatives, lustful, a dabbler in all arts, very 
sweet and clever in speech, persevering and successful in his 
attempts. In the 4th, 5th, 10th, 12th, 18th and 40th years 
of his life he will be subject to disease. 


WHEN SCORPIO !@ THE 1ST HOUSE. 
1. S&n.—Will have a hot constitution and will be short- 
lived, a source of sorrow and misery to parents. Will 


XV.] TWELVE 8rGN8 OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 91 


waste his wealth in youth. Will be wealthy in manhood, 
will wield magisterial powers or follow the military pro- 
fession. 


2. Moon.—Lean-bodied, of a doubting nature, always 
troubled, early life very troubled, but advanced life happy, 
will live to middle age. 


3. Mars.—Very irascible, will have many enemies, 
will hate his relatives, will live to middle age, will have a 
sickly constitution. 


4. Mercury.—Wild-natured, a debtor, miserable in boy- 
hood, sickly, elder brothers and progeny will not thrive, 
near-sighted and short-lived. 


5. Jupiter.—Long-lived,wealthy and born of a famous 
family, miserable in later life, truthful, an eloquent speaker, 
thought-reader or shorthand writer. 


6. Venus.—Beautiful person. In later life will lose a 
limb ; of middling stature. During middle age will have 
troubles arising through his wife, will suffer humiliation 
through women, spendthrift. 


7. Saturn.—Short-lived, fickle-minded, will suffer from 
bile, an ugly person, very loose morals, will lose brothers. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Will lose his parents 
in early life, sickly constitution, long-lived. Being in 
humble circumstances in early life, will rise to good 
fortune in later years. 


WHEN SAGITTARIUS IS THE 2ND HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Willrise to great fame, will inherit enormous 
wealth with additions from issueless relatives, will speak 
weighty words, no issue, eyes subject to irritatiou, will not 
scruple to commit theft if the gain is enormous. 


2. Moor.—Will inherit a small fortune in the shape of 
land and a house, will earn wealth by his own exertions, eyes 
watery, self-respecting, will have a small fortune ; a polyglot, 
will suffer from phlegmatic disease. 


8. Mars.—Will have moveable and immoveable pro- 
perty, will have many family troubles, will be fortunate in 
later life; will talk at the top of his voice, very courageous, 
will lose wealth to the king or by litigation. 


4. Mereury.—A flatterer, a preacher, a polyglot, will have 


92 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. [cHaP. 


issue in later years, will not be happy in manhood though 
learned. 

5. Jupiter.—Thoughwealthy will lack fame, a_ stingy 
man, will suffer from diseases of the chest, truthful,aman of 
weighty utterances. In old age will lose all his wealth, 
will be famous. 

6. Venus.—A debtor, but spending money for land- 
able purposes, will convert everybody into a friend, will 
keep mistresses. All through his life he will be fond of 
personal adornment, will get others' wealth. 


7. Saturn.—Willlose his wealth and will be a forger, 
full of sorrows, a debtor, in middle age will suffer shame, 
will become insolvent. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—A persuasive talker, 
will spoil his prospects by rashness, will lose all his an- 
cestral property, will earn a great deal, but will be unable to 
enjoy it; stubborn, always thinking of evil actions. 


WHEN CAPRICORN IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—Will suffer great anxieties through his bro- 
thers. During middle age fears from the ruling authorities 
will take possession of his mind, but will soon vanish. 


2. Moon.—Willhave many sisters, will follow various 
professions, will be skilled in fine arts, painting and music, 
&c. Being in very affluent circumstances in early life he 
will be impoverished in later years. 

3. Mars.—Wilhave no brothers, will earn his livelihood 
by undertaking litigious duties, will suffer from venereal 
disease, will have little comfort in middle age. 


4. Mercury.—Will lose wife and children, will have 
quarrels among his relatives, will be a handicraftsman. 


5. Jupiter—Wilhave few brothers, will not be wealthy. 
Inheritance will be subject to severe disputes, will lose sons. 

6. Venus.—Willhave many daughters, will be wealthy. 
Self-respecting, will get many additions to his wealth with- 
out effort on his part, will be an adviser of kings. 

7. Saturn.—Duringmiddle age valued brothers will 
suffer severe sorrows. He will not be happy. Will live 
in foreign countries, will often change his religion. 


& & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Wilhave few brothers, 


XV.] TWELVE 81GN8 OF ZODIAC AT RErrta, &c. 


during middle age he will give up his appointment, will die 
of grief. 
WHEN AQUARIUS IS THE 4TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Will lose his parents in early life, during 
middle age will hold high appointments owing to his profi- 
ciency in State language; will not support his relatives, an- 
cestral property will be lost. 


2. Moon.—Will lose parents in early life, will acquire 
lands and buildings; for a time he will serve his king and 
then will be a tradesman, will be grieved on account of his 
education. 


3. Mars.—Will lose mother and her relatives, will not 
hesitate to murder and behave riotously, will squander bis 
ancestral property; will lose his brother during middle age. 


4. Mercury.—Though very learned he will not be happy 
in early life, will be a good mechanic and painter, will 
be very wise and will be addicted to Toga, will be a wan- 
derer among the hills and will make voyages. 


5. Jupiter.—Will get much assistance from mother's 
relatives, will use others' vehicles, will have many sons and 
be wealthy. 

6. Venus.—Will be a debtor, will inheritwealth from 
females, will lose wives, he will not enjoy the possession of 
things long, will make voyages. 

7. Saturn.—Will bny old houses, will earn wealth by 
dishonest means, will not support his parents. 

8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tatl.—Will be a liar, will 
earn wealth in various ways, but will lose it as soon as 
obtained, will suffer shame at the bands of the authorities 
in middle age, will earn his livelihood in various ways, will 
trat¥el much. 

WHEN PISCES IS THE 5TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.— Will lose sons, in old age will have diseases of 
the eye, will hold high appointments under the king, but in 
middle age he will lose his wealth owing to quarrels, will 
lose parents in early life as also his ancestral property, 
will suffer sorrows in middle age owing to his sons. 

2. Moon.—Will earn his livelihood in various ways, but 
will succeed as a tradesman; many daughters. In the 
beginning he will serve the king, but will soon give up the 
profession. 


94 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. [CHAP. 


3. Mars.—Will lose his ancestral property, in old age 
he will lose grown-up sons, will be a “ black magician", 
happy in old age, will earn wealth by dishonest means. 


4. Mercury.—Very intelligent and very learned, but 
these qualifications will not help him much in life, childless. 


5. Jupiter.—Learned in law, a Yogee, fickle-minded, 
not a man of greed, prosperous in early life, but not so in 
later years. 


6. Venue.—Will marry a rich and beautiful wife, but 
will lose her in middle age, trustful, will live in towns on 
the sea coast, will make voyages, will be learned in the 
State language. 


7. Saturn.—Willlose sons, will not succeed in his edu- 
cation, an enemy of his parents, will earn wealth by dishonest 
means, in middle age will suffershame in his profession. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail._—Debauched, will lose 
sons, will wilfully commit sins and will be irretigious, 
a drunkard, in middle age he will lose his fortune. 


WHEN ARIES IS THE 6TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Will be claiming his ancestral property for a 
long time, but will succeed in the end; sickly constitution, 
will lose his parents in early life, will be a debtor. 


2. Moon.—A sickly wife, will be subject to phlegmatic 
diseases, in early life his mother will die, will be involved 
in quarrels by females. 


8. Mars.—Will suffer diseases pertaining toa bad condi- 
tion of blood, will not be on good terms with his relatives ; 
during middle age he will suffer punishment at the hands 
of the authorities. 


4. Mercury.—A friend of everybody, a debtor, a dabbler 
in all departments of knowledge, in youth will have a fall 
which will leave a mark on his body. 


5. Jupiter.—Debtor, will suffer from diseases of the 
lungs, short-lived, he will not enjoy his property. 

6. Venus.—Will have many wives, but none loveable, 
will live in foreign places, will suffer from venereal diseases. 


7. Saturn.—Will suffer from nervous diseases, will not 
have issue, will earn much. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—W il) suffer punish- 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 95 


ment at the hands of the authorities, will suffer from poison- 
ous bites, to avoid enemies he will travel in foreign countries. 


WHEN TAURUS IS THE 7TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Will have a thievish wife, many enemies, 
he will gain his ancestral property by litigation, and he will 
earn much by the help he renders to persons of high rank ; 
on the whole he will be happier during middle age than at 
any other time. 


2. Moon.—Will have a sickly wife, and will marry 
twice, will be a handsome person, will bear some mark on 
his face, during old agehe will be very happy. 

3. Mars.—Will not be happy with his wife who will be 
born of a poor family, he will lose much property to his 
enemies. 


4. Mercury.—Will have many wives, will be short-lived, 
will suffer from diseases of the kidneys. 


5. Jupiter.—Will love his parents and wifei in middle 
age his enemies will spoil his prospects ; long-lived ; in early 
life he will be a debtor, but in later years will be wealthy ; 
his sons-will be inimical. 

6. Venus.—Will have a beautiful wife, but will be lust- 
ful and licentious, will travel a great deal, will be clever in 
poetry and logic, will be happy in the beginning but will 
suffer troubles later on. 

7. Saturn.—Wilhave many wives, he will not enjoy what 
he earns, dull-headed and of dilatory habits. ¢ 

8 & 9'. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Sickly wife; his 
fortune will be diminished through his wife, in early life 
he will tive in foreign countries owing to troubles. 

WHEN GEMINI IS THE 8TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Will lose parents in early life, also ancestral 
property; sickly constitution, during middle age he will 
make many enemies in his profession and _ will triumph 
after Spending much money. 

2. Moon.—Will lose parents in early life, will be un- 
happy during middle age, short-lived. 


3. Mare.—Will die a hard death, will be an enemy of 
his relatives, very courageous. 
4. Mercury.—Will live to middle age, will have a fall 


96 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRgTH, &C. [CHAP. 


which will injure. some limb in early life, will study 
medicine. 


5. Jupiter.—Long-lived, in later life will attain to 
high position, will change religion often, will be a debtor. 


6. Venus.—In early life he will suffer accidents either 
in water or through a fall, will live to middle age, will lose a 
good wife in middle age. 

7. Saturn.—Long-livedjwill have many enemies, very 
unhappy in boyhood but fortunate later on, will suffer from 
poisonous bites. 

8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Willsuffer difficulties 
caused by women, will pass for a bribe-taker, will be at- 
tacked while travelling either by enemies or thieves, will die 
of diabetic boils. 


WHEN CANCER IS THE 9TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Willlose parents and property in early life, 
will hold high position under Government, will be a poly- 
glot, will build temples and choultries. 

« 2.'-Moon:—-Will be wealthy, will get others' property, 
will be happy in old age. 
¢ $.: 'Mars:—Will lose parents and brothers in early life, 
will be asurgeon, fond of fighting, will be a sceptic, but in 
Old age will be a believer. 

4. Mercury.—Debtor,will be a teacher of religion, will 
compose poetry, will be poor, but in old age he will be 
happy through receiving help from others. 

5. . dupiter.—Debtor, will earn a living in various ways, 
a scientific man; very moral and religious; will establish 
schools and choultries, a hater of co-religionists. 

6. Venua.—Will earn wealth and be happy through 
females, will hold high position in foreign conn tries in old 


7. Saturn.—Willbe a man of stationary wealth, will 
inherit other men’s property; very irreligious, a forger. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willtravel far; clever 
in criminal law. 


WEN LEO 18 THE 10TH HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—Will be fond of religious rites, will be a 
wanderer among hills and travel much, will be a friend of 
kings, will gain much moveable and immoveable property. 


xv.) TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC’ aT BreTE, &c. 97 


2. Moon.—Will lowe tia meane ‘of: livelihood in mands 
age, will-inberit others’ property, will do good'deeda.’ © 

%. Mars.—Will low immoveable a ae an enemy of 
relatives, atingy. 

4, Mercury.—Liberal-minded; poor, a Jorer of know- 
—_ will becomé an author. 

Jupiter.—For a time he will be. B teache and will 
hold other high placea; atadent of religion; will ‘do good 
deeds ; during middle age he will rise, to great fame. | 
6. Fenne.—Alwaya happy; ry magician; will gain landed 
property; will be the agent ; of kings. 

7.. Seturn—Meanea of ‘livelihood very, base, will. make 
rayages, ancharitable, irreligiona. ee 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head. and Tail. —wil | travel i in. foreign 
countries, a handicraftaman, bold, will bé, happy in: old, age. 
woot tos Witew ¥1aGo 18 ‘THE liza. Aone see 8 
: 1. Sea.—Will riae to great celebrity, will-be = friend ‘uf 
pa a ohn ng; Bepbedans:; ; elder eae cml ‘risd |b 
eager ht A? te eee ee 

Be “Mooie-W¥ il have elder siatorns- wil haves pid: wivreds 
in later years will be consumptive; clover ‘ia ‘inathomatioy. 

3. Mars. Will have many cbrothers ; in middle aga 


fortune will be crippled by the enmity of @uperiora ; Tory 
fond of women ; may be connected with dacoite.* |" 


4, Mercury.—Clever in. " mathematica ad ;. wate, 
dential however much he may,earn, in the ‘end he ‘will be oe 


pocr, 

5. Jupiter.—Will have a rich wife, will be a friend: of 
kinga, will found choultries, will be uniformly fortanate. 

§. Venue. — Sick wife, will lose elder. - brothers and 


sistara, will enjoy others’ property, but’ nee. riddle.” 
he will lone it. . me : 8 


7. Baturn.—-A. aceptic, .will be wealthy, meny: -doathe 

among children, duscene of the stomach, un ‘ap Py in old age, 

8&9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Elder brothers... gill 
not prosper, 4 wlan, amechanic... ._ Mt 

Weer Lines 18 ree.127s Hoos.) ai eat 

1. Sun.—Will travel much for hia livelihood; mbappy, 


98 TWELVE SIGNS GF, ZODIA0 AT. ZIETE,. 260. [cmar. 


Will suffer from diseseoa of the tiga ll , daring middle 
BEE WO De TOvorea mo aapeicn Which. I corm ao 
ceaetully. 

Y oo "Moon.— Will lees parentéin cat “Iie, will make yoy 7 
agen, will not enjoy his angeatral property, mill bare watery 
‘eyed. 


3. Mara.—Will follow the military ession, unk 
self -epecting, will outer Remleet Rasy ng middle 
‘apes 


4, Mercury —Will be au stingrant, Jeatarer, wil have 
litletieds =" UF GMa eae and eres EF af 

5. Jupiter. —Will be wealthy will not have children, 
wil follow various anes wit Pi rey words 


2. | bphei raleasgl us 
Robions. dcr mi oan will haves.bad repitetion, inthe.¢nd 
ra ans a dren tofinherit bia property. since: yet 2 

6&%. won's Head and Tail.—Will dis a bard death 
raslthy as in. m spo sabeprT: wilhosrn woalth by ae 
a bh ew r 


| ay 


__Sanrtranme: 
‘One born with this ‘sq the rising eign eign will be of a very 
ote prominin g tiature and Stat fat , ba will be lostful 


aod will triamph over his en dinies, bé forelligent end 
will ‘soqzire diffiodt arta’ sven ° ja ont. “He ' will travel 
a gréat deal; in 12th, 15th, $2nd_ ead Mth years he will 
havo diseases of tho ayes: © <2 
Wurm Hacirrs Th : Hous. 

“4. Sen.—Famous y will Bold dn pointmenta coder 
ths king, lean, ‘hot boustibation, will = io anoestral pro- 
perty, Jong-lived. as ahaa 


sit ebeting im youth will do 
complexion, boils in vari- 
ous parta of the body. i. Page) elmer te ane, 


aay he sted 


shameful actions, copp 


XV.] TWELVE BIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 99 


4. Mercury.—Many wives, will study medicine and 
mathematics. Very mild and: wise, will live to middle age. 


5. Jupiter.—Sickly wife, fair complexion, tall, famous, 
full of knowledge, long-lived, will earn and lose wealth, 
liberal, self-respecting, lover of religion. 


.6. Venus.—Ruddy complexion, short stature, in old age 
will suffer from disease of the kidneys; wife will be either 
sickly or inimical, debtor short-lived. 


"7. Saturn.—Long-lived, defective limbs, ugly person. 
dull-headed, will lose brothers and wife in old age, will rise 
to fame. 


8&9. Dragon’s Head and Tatl.—Willnot enjoy ances- 
tral property, in early life he will go to foreign places, will 
change religion in his youth, and in old age will stick to, 
the good, will rise to fame by meana of foreign, kings, 
licentious, ‘witt get issue in later life. 


, WEN CAPRICORN IS THE 28D HOUSE. -V: 


1:13, Sun.—;Relatives will bring discredit on him, wealthy. 
but a debtor in old age, eyes diseased, rapid and hats’ 
Bpeaker. , 
_2., Moon.—Mild speaker, debtor, relatives inimical, in 
youth eyes watery. 

8. Mars.—Loud speaker, greedy of gold, will lose wife 
and children, diseases of the blood, an engineer. 
- +. . Meroury.—-Mild-natured, no increase of wealth, hazy 
vision at dusk, will learn many handicrafts, will paint and 
thus earn livelihood. 


5. Ju ae yin early life but indebted in old 
age, will live to middle age, in his early lifa his words will 
be valued, but later they will be despised. 


6.  Venue.—Will lose wealth owing to enemies, white 
spot in the dark surface of the eyes, more daughters than 
sons, debtor, wife of higher rank than himself, during 
middle age means of livelihood will be endangered. 


7. tfafarn.—* Childless, blue eyes, dall-headed, untruth-' 
ful, wealthy, will inherit property from various families. 


8 & 9% Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willlose parents in 


100 


early life, bold apesker,: ‘debtor, in middle. age -will truvel 
much, will recover lost wealth, 
Ween Aquanrva 1s THE 3en Hovse. ; 


* ‘Sun.—Famous brothers, but they will beof no assist 
aiied to him ; bold, will have ,many serraota, will anocesd 


in life. 
a ‘Moon. —Wil Tose brothers, impotent, will ios wealth 
enffer froity ¢ earache, | 
3. Mars. = middle bolls iu the out BIC 
aaffor freqhent loss veiag to fobnely, ‘shortlive ; = ee 1% 
~k. Mercury.—Impotent, will be a servant, ‘derma middie 
age will be reputed a thief, poor, bappy i ig old aga, 
ae hy Fripriter: Will’ have ipeny. brothers, 


we 
wealthy, por 
cerenes al 1 to great fame in middle. age, for..6 
time ate “ni Wt 7 welt an 
aiones, inold ape very ipigions and devotionally 


Re Bef a pr tieen,| middle le age will be  uingd by + by women, 


ks  Selaen- Fer besthens; ver} inetfal,;will-become dtaf 


Bi & 9. . ragon Head and Tati, —Bold, Juatfal, * few 


at nt ag pari a In: sald a will: cara é-dooent 
‘Sy’ staat ‘sa "7 ropa d a daccit 


Wem Pisces 12 mae dea Hover. 
1.. Sea.—Will lose ancestral property, will card 
and bé happy, will trade in varions. things, thotgh edus 
will not earn money thereby. “ In oldage ot ee heey pon | 
willbaild houses. 2 Some 


2. sis n tiga Saptinis te middle. will soquire 
eome lands, very anastiled profasaicn, : ercoke2 eee ms 


$. Mare.—Will loss ancestral property, amill travel in 
railways and steamers, will be « blackamith ' 

4. Mer. y.—Will be a painter and “handiceatianian, 
nusettled p eesion, will for sows time bes merchant, ‘will 
get wealth throogh-womeo, bet wil-iose.itin oldage, 5 


Si. Jupiter-~In_sniddls sga-\cwill get into “dimrepiate | 
through A Though -Isarned Aerial will, oot 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OP ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 101 


prosper ‘his learning. [no dd age will acquire lands and 
ecy obliging. ; 
6. Feaws.—In middle age will scffer calamities consed 
by women. Will be a literary wan, will be an acrobat. 
7. Saturn.—Property onetable, ‘karned, will earn his 
livelibood in petty atates, will be a aceptic aud seoffer. . 


8&9. Dragon’s Head ond Toii.—U nsettled profession 


sod domicile, untrustworthy, ‘will enjoy others’ Property. 
will be guilty of breach of rast, litigious. . . 


Warn Agtes 1s tHe Stu Hons. 


1... Sun. —Famooa, learned in various profeasions, will 
lose parents in eariy life, will lose sons in middle age, vory 
celebrated acholar, will learn the secret aciences. 


2. _ Bota Jone see aunishca, in = 70s he will 


-- 


3. Mare. —Wwil ‘be “a Lingletvity rash, pone ‘will ‘die 
hard deaths, in middle age he will have an accident by fire. 


= Moree — Wise aod Jearoed, very shy and wantin 
in diap] “oft kaowlkdge,, will have few eons, will inberr 
ey m thé mother, scheming and a clever writer, . 


5. Jupiter—Good adviser, few sons, will protect many, 


good composer of poetry, will study languages, unhappy i” 
middle age. 


6. Venus. Debtor, very bad sons, in middle age he 
will suffer from poison aamunistered by enemies, will be a 
mechanic, : fev iit velba ce thee 


7. Saturn.—Nosons, infamous, will not protect parents, 
forger. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail._—Unhappy,few sons, 
in youth will lose parents, bent on doing evil, unhappy 
owing to soné. 

WHEN Taveus 18 THE 6TH Hovsr. 


1. Sun.—In middle age will often lose and regain profes- 


sional position, sickly, will be attacked by thieves during 
travel. 


2. Moon.—Phlegmatic diseases, will have no support 
from mother’s family, will live in hilly places, short-lived. 


3. Mars.—Will lose property owing to enemies, will 


102 Twerve sians orzopiac AT BIRTH, &c. [cnar. 


travel'to avoid enemies, will divorce his wife will ba duped 
of his earnings. 


. 4, Mereury.—Though learned he will be. unhappy, will 
be supported by his wife, will be happy in old = opine 
to sons, weak constitation: A 


5. - Juptter.—Debtor, by-' standing surety br By hein a 
trustee he will losa much of his own weal; in middle age 
win suffer punishment, consumptive, ....:. 0s daveb bani 

6. Venus.—Nervous diseases, will ‘énffor' hnmiliation 
owing to females, will be a logician, ./. v.11 /. 

7. Sdaturn.—Willhave: enemies, will have-nervons and 


skin diseases, during middle age will have a ’s fall and will 
be maimed, will earn his-living by dishonest means."' 


'8&9.; Dragon's, Head and Taal. ~-Litigions, bub.always 
successful, valetudinarian, will be a debtor, fcut will bacoria 
insolvent, unsettled home sud profession, - wR Of 


4 solidus breed 


vole 529. °Woygy GEMINI i were Yr Howse.’ 


ft] SS Buni—Learned and will earn decent ‘livelihood, i in- 
ventor and Eee» ee ae pes: peced student of 


law. ‘of “Deg foes wate saedtel 9S CF a. ct goat ny 
Vv 28 Moon Debtor, will spend wealth 1 for bad parppseg, 
will make voyages, will keep mistresses not being marred, 


3. Mars.—Willdie ahard death, so also_ will his wife; 
traveller, spendthrift. 


4. Mercury.—Dilatoryhabits, happy in old age, learning 
of no avail i in youth, moderately wealthy... 

' ringing property with ane wil] 
be famous in foreign countries, self-respecting, good lawyer. 

6. Venus.—Willmarry late, lustful, will keep mistregses, 
will acquire land and house in old age. 

7. Saturn.—Nohappiness from women, traveller, hater 
of his religion, will be a hireling preacher. 

&&9. Dragon's Head and Tail—TImiddle age will 
have troubles throughhis wife, will follow various’ profes= 
sions, sudden death. 
re Wuex Cancer ws rue 8ta Houses. ' -- 


if Siem = Will a hard death, sickly, in middle age 
will suffer shame in his profession and also fogs. 


103 


2. Moon.—Short-lived, will have many accidents by 
water, phlegmatic diseases, no ancestral property, will follow 
base professions. 


3. Mars.—Will die a hard death, unhappy, will lose 
wealth owing to enemies, unhappy owing to sons. 


4. Mercury.—Unsuccessfal, education poor, sickly, will 
live to middle age. 


5. Jupiter.—Long-lived, will have many enemies, will 
learn difficult arts, will be duped of his wealth, happy in 
old age. 


6. Venus.—Unhappy owing to women, will not survive 
his parents, intelligent. 

7. Sat urn.—Short-lived, wicked, will be a cheat, no 
issue. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl..—Will die a hard death, 


will suffer imprisonment in middle age, will rise to high 
position and will fall. 


WHEN LEO Is THE 9TH HOUSE. P 


1. Sun.—Will lose parents in early life, charitable, 
famous, self-respecting, learned, a good adviser. 

2. Moon.—Daoll-headed, drunkard, will resume previous 
charitable grants, will spend wealth for bad purposes. 

3. Mare.—Will acquire lands and buildings, but will lose 
them in middle age; will lose sons, hardhearted, courage- 
ous. 

4. Mereury.—Wild-natared, regardful of life, learned in 
various arts, slow writer, fickle-minded. 

5. Jupiter—Very thoughtful, charitable, and will estab- 
lish choultries at others' expense, famous, unhappy in old 
age, will lose sons, will be a debtor but will earn money 
su bsequen' 


6. Venus.—Enemy of his parents, wealthy, trustful. 
7. Saturn.—Stingy, stubborn, sickly. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tatl.—Will lose parents in 
early life, will spend others' wealth for charitable purposes, 
will earn a living by dishonest means, very fortunate sons, 
will travel by water. 


104 


Toca ee - Vibes ta THE. JOrH ‘Hove. B ietRee ee 


. at . Sales Waid ba’ authoritative p sition, legislator, will 
aoquire landa and bui dings, very Te igious. 


2... Moon.~4U utruthfal | will lode’ property i 1 ‘early. lita, 
Will lose hia * parent,’ fickle-minded,;’ weak ‘constitution, 
mnbappy.). _ ie meow tates gute FA md 

3. iors Will follow the police or military protean 
Poor, Atrarelienr, will murder his relatives. © _ 


ue «| Merctery. on Lederned in :tarions arta,. fickle; will in 
naa alten, very benevolent and merciful. 


c 


upiter—- Will do good. deada and will -be. famons, 

will née se dre will bowel protected, ‘thongh tful and. 
original author. oa 
“6. Venue. diter, ausaooesafel educational 
arent, pabappy Wik rile, tectat of various families. 


ME * Balun, Riad! inher thers ty, -mnigorable 

in Boyhood bes yet haps i ia ald 2 proper livelihood. ip, 

various ways, for Agia time 8 servant. 
"Si la ] at 


B & @, pens Head and Fait—will ran ecrands, 
sealthy‘ia old’ if : vital na hick a * sour? 


“Waey Linea 18 = ‘ita Hover. 


12! Bam = T anded good ardena will. sare 
weal th by pleabiog af st sahcity in ld a ss 

2. Moon. —Trediug .f ‘antovala’ ‘and grain, , Hianidiorafte. 
tian, will marry twice, tubappy.’ * 

& Mars. —~Many brothers, . unsettled rotegsio 
doned teh hed ‘rife in tiddld age “will i el, “at 
the handa of suthorities, ‘sill be anactor, 

4. Meraery—Dancing insster, will obtain. ome ~— and 

a house in later. yer 

5. Jupiter. “Properete ‘eethers, famous, * I. ‘lous! % 
good wife, in middle age happy owmg to sons, Will keapa 
pelanquin. < 

6. Venus. —Debtor, yot very happy fond cf scents, will 

seep jgeod | harveste i in “and, wany wires, will suffer frot 


7 Stein. — Wit be very wealthy, tolacmucs, | urinary 
diapaaes im old age, will have no issie. 


xv.] 105 


. 8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Self-respecting, 
wealthy, will lose .s0ns, will earn wealth in various ways, 
ostentations. 


‘WEEN SCORPIO i8 THE 12TH Hoouse. , 
1. Sun.—Will travel, will have disease of the; heart; 
sudden death, practical man, friend of kings. 


2. : Moon:—Will make voyages, will change and-re- 
vert te his religion ta early life, a friend of kings but jeter 
on will tarn an enemy, always troubled in apind. ~| 


. Marg.--MWill goto foreign places for war, ‘for some 
time will live incognito, wealth in later life, will Jose sons.: 


4. Mercury—Unhappy owing to sons, will marry late, 
student of law, happy in early life, charitable. 


5. Jupiter —Very famous in middle age, will be a friend 
of kings, poritie of many, will establish choultriés. ” 


6. Venus.—Many comforts, will inherit others’. fcro* 
perty, will rise to fame in foreign countries, will suffer iobis 
owing to enemies, from poverty he will rise’to affluence, 
good judge. 

PS er Saturn.-—Will do menial service, will ii deeds, 
no.enjoyments jn life, will be litigious. ° 
8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.— Will aie among 


hills, wealthy, sickly, willlose wife aud children, ,aucharita- 
ble, bold and rough. 


CAPRICORN. 


One born in Capricorn will have broad eyes, buat a black- 
ened surface about the orbit of the eyes, he will be tall, 
sickly, firm-minded and conscientious, fair complexion, in 
his Ist and 10th years he will suffer from fever; in 12th 
or 32nd year he will travel, in 37th year death due to poi- 
sovons reptiles. 


WHEN CAPRICORN IS THE 1ST Hovss. 


1. Sun.—Short-lived, rash, hot constitution, lean, 
debtor, will lose parents in early age, will suffer from head- 
ache Qr .eye disease. 


2. dMoon.—Urinary disease, lean body, short-lived, 
many wives. 


3. Mars.—Middle age, will have enomies, in middle age 


106 [CHAP. 


will have a fall or will be engaged in a combat which will 
leave marks on his body, will lose .mother in early life, no 
ancestral property. 

4. Mercury.—Short-lived, will lose parents in early life, 
unhappy, will engage in various. professions, -but will not 
succeed. 

5. Jupiter—Will live to.middle age, debtor, poor, un- 
happy, will not enjoy ancestral property, ear diseases. 


6. Venus.—Will triumph ‘over - enemies, will inherit 


laugeeaa: 

7. Saturn.—Longlife, Will travel, will be a surveyor or 
engineer, tall, will have many wives, will rise to fame, very 
patient. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Pasl—-W ill have boil-marks 
on his body, will live to middle sge, wealthy, will suffer loss 
in middle age, will suffer from 'indigestion or from diseases 
of the chest. a 

WHEN AQUARIUS IS THE 2ND Houssg, - 

1, Sun.—Debtor, will fall_into* distépate’ in middle 
age, will lose many relatives, diseases of' the eye,: being a 
forger he will suffer a great deal of evil.'. 

2. Moon.—Enemy of relatives, spendthrift, watery 
eyes, no good education. 

3. Mars.—Bold and intrepid speaker, will acquire 
land. 

4. Mereury.—Mild speech, will.lose ancestral property, 
polyglot, will study mathematics and medicine, in old age 
he will not be able to see during the night. 

5. Jupiter.—Will speak weighty words, will be a 
teacher, then will study law and earn a livelihood, he will 
rise to great fame but in middle age. 

6. Venue.—Witor buffoon, cunning, licentious, will gain 
precious stones, wealthy. 

7. Saturn.—Liar, cunning, learning will not bring liveli- 
hood, will go mad in middle age, will ‘lose wealth owing to 
enemies. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Will get a wife from 


XV.] 107 


a poor family, will be a buffoon, will be an actor, will earn 
a livelihood in various ways. 

WHEN PISCES IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 

1, Sun.—Will lose young brothers, will suffer from 
venereal disease, unhealthy parents. 

2. Moon.—Will have many sisters, fond of music, watery 
ears. 

3. Mars.—Courageous, trustful, and will suffer humi- 
liation, drunkard, rough. 

4. Mercury.—Few brothers, wanting in manliness; during 
middle age will become insane. 

5. Jupiter.—Many brothers, poor, impotent, good speak- 
er, in early years will travel a great deal, brothers wealthy 
and famous. 

6. Venus.—Self-respecting,sisters very wealthy, wealth 
and prosperity will be due to females, singer. 

7. Saturn.—Will lose brothers, no good fortune, will 
do menial services, dull-headed, agriculturist. 

. 6 & 9.. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Handicraftsman, self- 
respecting, few brothers, will suffer from accidents in middle 
age, debtor in old age. 

WHEN ARIES IS THE 4TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Sickly parents, fickle-minded, will never 
possess vehicles, will be a contractor. 

2. Meoon.—Will lose mother in early life, will not live 
more than sixteen years. 


8. Mars.—Will lose ancestral landed property, will be 
houseless, unhappy. 


4. Mercury.—Interrapted education, easily pleased, will 
be dependent on others for support, but will be happy, will 
earn livelihood by handicraft. 


5. Jupiter.—Some times he will have vehicles and at 
other times none, will be unhappy, will be educated. 

.6, Venuse.—Will have many vehicles, mirthful, will 
build houses, will triumph over enemies, in middle age will 
come into possession of gardens and lands. 


7. Saturn.—Sorrowful, no vehicles, will lose parents in 
early life, no education, poor. 


8 & d.:-:Dragon’s Head and Pail. Will travel vory far, 
will trade io bad articles, sickly, happy imokd age, - ©. «i 
Waites Tavecd is the Sra Hdtee. 
fe San Wi) loge parent in early lifé, well inherit 
other men“s property, will lose sods daring’ middid apt, will 

anfiar: evi at the hends of amthoritiem:  ..) 4) ——5.. 2! 

2. Hoon.—Wealthy, will have many daughters, will’ 
atedy pinidéophy and. mabires. . 

$. Mare.—Fond of war and prymndatiad, ‘will enietd' 
Weapons, stubborn, will loss pmoising ar ee RCE 
aga. ; 

§. Jfereurg — Will have enemios, will have akin disease, 
7 study philosophy. . 

Jupiter.—No sous, will stady law and -feyt,' “ATTE 
biheineivne of kings, will] -risa to great :fatoe dis foiddle 
see “ana Ghajendq bon 

ee Femur Happy, rnirth Eel, wealthy, 
early life will be spent in debauchery, ; Ber metas Sires 

‘Ge  Baturn.~-No sons, happy i ently life bit misatadle 
ini lider years, ma eherrdeg women, edoda?.tijif ee ].07 

8&9. Dragon's Head and TaitacWo) “hawt hnany 
enemies, will-be & forger, self-respectrog, wealthy. 
lie “Wes Gru fa ret Ort Hovtr-' 4 

con Sen.—Will pot be prosperous in his pmitession j 

élancholy death, debtor; sickiy parente. - : eee. 

“’ Mpon—Will suffer from phléginatia tical “will be 
mined by wormed danug middie: ge, will. -_ -weidith ‘by 
being robbed. 

8. Mors.—Will be manmad by tian Will Tose 
Janded property, will suffer inom poisomtes- tite. 

4 Mercury.—Frieod of alt, weak body, debtor. 

& Sablon ae, wise, will have protesioted titi 
tion inveliag criminal charpes ; uvhappy. 

6 Fonus.—Will suffer from pain in the chest, will ive 
ap accident on the water, will bet! the aautic ote toad, 
bappyi in old age. a “ 
.. 7: Heteren.—Will have meuy oneuiet,: will: wianafeo- 
tare wicked medicines, thievish. : geen 


xt.] Ww 


Ebr fh Op! cs Tied 4 : | Li middle age will 
aatfer ponishment, all iis * Mstng, by diahonest means, 
? ‘Wau Cancer ie’ THE *TH. Hovse. 


1. Sun--Will lose wife and parents in early life, 
will suffer homiliation in middle age, hot conatitation. 


a ‘Moon. Wite disobedtient and highhanded, will travel, 
will die of diseases caused by cold. 

‘$.'° Mave.—Will have a bad wife who will be divorced. by 
hits; will safer from diseases of the blood, will suffer ebame 
it obi Lear at * 

4. \ Mercury — Wee will bé eources of unhappiness, 
will suffer from indigestion, will serve the State m the 

iting" ba ALE ‘eivs it tp for teude. 
5. Hepiter.— Will have’ an intelligent and learoed wife 
Wie wilt bs ‘h pret Help 46 htm, duyuw adddle ape will 
bed favodrite df lings, will herd matty brothers. 


‘76; Fbdite eT oa wifal wits, will earn livelihood by follow - 
ing the legal pectin, 4 in. old age he will have a young 
e oli) vitae mh oeeera + 


x daiurec- 98 manly aie, cue bed conversation: 
aliat ; sceptic,. wil Lun 8 death. - 


8&9. Dragon's. Hiadond- Toil.—Many wires, onsattled 
peoeaties, fond of lectoring, happy in later years. 


Ue Ie ropa e ee ie te rut ote Hoves. 
a Fe very unhappy 


2. .Moon.—Will die of phlagmatic diseases, debtor, 
tinbappy through his wife. 


9. Mars —Will die « painfel death caused by a blow 
tt & fall ‘sthoré-lived. 

4. Mercwry.— Will suffer from asthma, bed and inter- 
ropted edacation. . 

5. Supt aie ei wil] bare ® alight attack of 
pethma, ¢ Cee ae 


Le Pomuares Unhappy mith wie will los bia ¥ehiclea, 
ite sickly... 


110 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &¢. [CHAP. 


7. Saturn.—In old age he will fall into disrepute, will 
die amidst strangers, short-lived: ... 

8 & 9. Dragon's Headand Tatt.—Unbappy,in middle 
age will suffer from poisonous bites, in youth there will 
be a defect in the limbs, intelligent. 


WHEN Virco IS THE 9TH HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—Parents of no help, charitable, will rise to 
greatness in the State. 


2. Moon.—Will inherit property, fond of agriculture 
and trade, sometimes prosperous and sometimes unhappy. 


3. Mars.—Wealthy, not famous, will misappropriate 
money intended for charity, will be a handicraftsman, and 
will bea tradesman. 

4, Mivestyi ry.—Will be a painter, accountant, wealthy 
in old age, will have ancestral property, self-respecting. 
:,.5. Juptter.—Will hold an authoritative position, will 
establish choultries, Ac, at others' cost, will be a teacher, 

. 6. Venus.—Will lose ancestral property, unbeliever; 
a bad edviser. 


“7, Saturn.—Will lose parents in early life, a vile 
preacher, will lose ancestral property. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Unhappy parents, 
uncharitable, hating neighbours, sickly. 


WHEN LIBRA IS THE 10TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Will lose high position in middle age and will 
get into difficulties. Bribe-taker, of religious habits, will 
acquire landed property, but will not enjoy it because it 
will be made over to others. 


2. Moon.—Will acquire lands and houses, debtor, 
self-respecting will travel. 


8. Mars.—Unhappy, will squander his wealth, will 
have many enemies, unsettled profession, will be a landed 
proprietor 

4. Mereury.—Handicraftsman, fickle-minded, will in- 
herit others’ property. 

5. Jupiter.—Fora time he will be in subordinate servica 
but will.soon rise to independence, of a doubting nature, will 
learn various sciences, but will not profit by them. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 111 


6. Venus.—Will rise to great fame in old age, will 
acquire lands, will do good deeds, wealthy, will inherit 
property from women. 

7. Sal urn.—Though doing menial service yet he will be 
the head, will live in foreign places, will be a clever forger, 
irreligious, a scoffer. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Willdo low work, 
will suffer humiliation in middle age, will lose sons, 
traveller. 

WHEN SCORPIO IS THE 11TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Enormons greed, and will suffer humiliation 
for it, self-respecting, no lands, will earn livelihood by 
low services. 

2. Moon.—Will be an agriculturist, nnhappy, parents of 
no help, not intelligent. 

8. Mare.—Will lose ancestral property, will marry 
more than once, unhappy, separated from hia brothers. 

4. Mercury.—Poor parente,: will lose brothers, will not 
earn much, will do menial service, charitable. 

5. Jupiter.—Will earn wealth by honest means, con- 
scientious, will be an agriculturist, persevering to the end. 

6. Venus.—Happy through wife or other females, 
famous of his family, will enjoy vehicles, wise, fine 
speaker: 

7. Saturn.—Learning of no avail, bad speaker, fickle, 
though wealthy yet will not enjoy, suspicious. 

8&9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Wealthy, will rise 
from a low to a high position, handicraftsman, will voyage 
on the seas. 

WHEN SAGITTARIUS IS THE 12TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Famons, will travel far, will have family 
troubles in old age, during middle age will lose his son, 
will lose his profession in middle age, but will regain it. 

2. Moon.—Weak enjoyments, will lose his wealth in 
middle age, weak body. 

3. Mars.—Unhappy, venereal disease, will lose his earn- 
ings, traveller. 

4. Mercury.—Traveller, spendthrift, self-respecting, 
nnhappy in old age, asthma. 


112 TWELVE ‘Ainwe OF ZODIAC AT BIRTE, oc. [cmar. 


“BL Supiter.— Will ‘travel . in: 1! good places, iaiatian food 
tipeliber” we law, will composs verse. 
6. ag ape —Will enjoy worldly a will’ rie8 to 
—— peer meni t pera will suffer 
giin wade. EN es ete aie, 


7s, Saturn. weettled profession, st maya from low 
‘people, wns euro, u avigg. | by dishonest tweens, irreligion, 
Bad. Dragon's Head md Tail.— Traveller, happy, wil 
earD 2. living} 7lliti gation pee Ifyregpactieg,zill ave anamies, 


jogo. childean, wil from, wretched fnenda, will 
pracy er cred ee a. 


ce 


4qu4z1 UB. 


“One ‘bien wader Aguarina will ‘bo boastial and slanderoae, 
abort. Imperfect knowledge, biliota conatitation, grateldl, 
Ticéa tos, ' 10 ‘the | ‘Lith ‘year-will enifer trom- fever, i Im: ‘the 
vite degli Hinffer Fromdelirant,7'/2.'-° .- 


dom ewe wet Wiens ‘AQ Uk Rie a- ee der,Honee. 


1. Sun —Pamous; wealthy, traveller, will marry late, will 
“hart divelihood ‘by tigation, jong-iimed, dickly conetitution. 
Dog EM nett Fi bey conetititien, ‘ubort-lived, will here 
odpmnias, selfneapectiag. ds eis 
to BL Meee —Bickdy © comtibition, shart ‘sintore, epend- 
thrift, irascible, poor in early life bot happy later on. 
Lust), i in dater life he wills fer bomiliatian. 

4. Metcury.—Patient, wise, self-respeotin 
awl (leary ‘zona thi i dpan, in youth  oagehg will Fiend 
eweelth by the. iotrigues ane, 

th Jupiter. Long-lived, fill rise ta great fame. Happ 

stk, de ‘will soffer. serious satil, bot later on will 
ei SD pyr ‘Willregein oat srealth. 

Feaus,-—Will lose weal th ‘by the intrigues of enemies, 
sadly many wives, will inhent others’ property. Will 
be wary happy in middle age, long-lived. 

*: Sefurn.—Tell and agly. Will gph? oohap 
early life but (later .on veil @nity gon ef ron it 
live to middle age, slwaya melancholy, wil aged. 
brothers during middle age. 


8&9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Waill live to middle 


XV.] TWELVE 8i1GNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 113 


age, fair, forger, will earn money by dishonest means. In 
age some defect of limb will occur. 


WHEN PISCES IS THE 2ND HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Wealthy, no issue, diseased eyes, in later 
life his means of livelihood will be endangered by his 
enemies. Will speak weighty words. 


2. Moon.—No issue, cunning. Will acquire lands, will 
be a debtor in middle age, will be an author. 


3. Mars.—Will be a blacksmith, &c. Though high 
born will be fond of manual labour, sickly constitution. 
He will be deprived of his property. 


4. Mereury.—Poor, will lose his relatives. In middle 
age will suffer from blindness during night. Will e@xpose 
his own crimes. 


5. Jupiter.—Good thinker. Good legal adviser, during 
middle age will earn much. In middle age he will be 
unfriendly with those who helped him. 


6. Venus.—Sweet talker. Licentious, musician, during 
middle age he will acquire much property through females. 


7. Saturn.—Will lose ancestral property. Blue ‘eyes, 
shallow knowledge. Fickle-minded, not very wealthy. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tati.—lIrascible. Will have 
a slight defect in one eye, will gain varions things. Will 
be wealthy and famous in old age. 


WHEN ARIES IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 


1. Sun.— In middle age brothers will get into trouble. 
Lustful, few brothers. 


2. Moon.—Few brothers, but many sisters. Happy, 
for a time will be dependent but will be free subsequently. 


3. Mars.—Few brothers, but if many, a source of 
unhappiness. Lustfn). 


4. Mercury.—Few brothers, few pleasures. Will suffer 
from earache, will be happy in early life, but unhappy 
inold age. For aboutten years he will be separated from 
his family. 

5. Jupiter — Many brothers and sisters. Wealthy, 
happy, very clever, and learned. 


114 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIBTH, &C. [CHAP. 


6. Venus.—Many sisters. . Will have many wives, fond 
of music, will be wealthy. 9. jo8 den, 

7. Saturn.—No brothers. Will be unhappy through 
brothers if there be any, atheist.. 

8&9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Atheist, will earn 
much wealth, good practical man, will travel. 

WHEN TAURUS ‘ts THE 47H Hovsz. 

1. Sun.—Will enjoy ‘others’ property and vehicles. 
Will be unhappy owing to parents in early life, will earn 
livelihood in: various ways, will have no hoase., .-...“ 

2°: Moon.—Will build ‘houses ‘with borrowed money: 
Will lose parents in early life. 

'8.' Mars.—Will suffer loss ‘by “converting ancestral 
property. Frustrated inhis attempts, Bickly parents, un- 
happy: 

» 4!‘ Mercury:—Wise lear many things, wealthy, 
very happy in old age. a Fond ‘Of trade; will travel much. 


5. Jupiter.—Will be as happy . as king, will enjoy 
vehicles, ostentatious. wets 


6. Venus.—Will have buildings and gardens. Unhappy 
in old age. 60: 8" Untasottis 


7. Saturn.—Willlose the affection of: parents in youth. 
Will be troubled by his father’s debtors, will lose his 
self-respect through female relatives. 

8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Travel ler, will regain 
his ancestral property. . Will lose his/ parents in early life. 
WHEN GEMINI : 18 THE 9TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Famous, will get help from his mother's 
relatives. Will lose sons in middle age. 

2. Moon.—Will losd sons,'not wealthy. Will lose 
mother's relatives, will get support from relatives of his 
father's side. 


3. Mare.—Will lose grown-up sons in middle age. 
Will lose relatives on either his father's or mother’s side. 

4. Mercury.—Will inherit others’ property, will lose sons, 
intelligent. 


5. Jupiter. —Few sons ; -high-born mannii will study 
law, given to much mental work, 


xv. | TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. 115 


6. Venus.—Will compose verse, will have many 
daughters, will learn magic, intelligent. 


~ 7, Saturn.--No sons, will be unhappy through them if 

any; though learned he will not entertain high thoughts, 
will be very unhappy through mother, brothers and 
sisters, will regain all lost property. 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tait.—Will lose sons, un- 
happy in youth, traveller. 


WHEN CANCER IS THE 6TH HOUSE. 


1, Sun.—Will have powerful enemies, hot constitution, 
will suffer humiliation in middle age, sickly father. 


2. Moon.—Sickly mother, will have many enemies. 


3. Mars.—Will lose his landed property, relatives un- 
friendly, will bear marks of wounds on the body, will fall 
into disrepute during middle age. 


4. Mercury.—Will be a judge, sickly, will lose mother’s 
relatives, bad memory. 


5. Jupiter—Will not be liked by his superiors, un- 
settled profession, debtor. 

6. Venus.—In middle age will suffer humiliation through 
women, will have two or three accidents by water, will have 
diabetes. 

be ts Saturn. — Always sorrowful, debtor, in middle age he 
will be robbed and beaten, will travel to avoid enemies, will 
suffer punishment, windy and bilious constitution. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Willtriumph over ene- 
mies, will suffer punishment in middle age, will snffer from 
poisonous bites. 


WHEN LEO IS THE 7TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Sickly wife, self-respecting, will rise to fame 
in middle age. 


2. MMoon.—Many wives, will lose sons, will suffer from 
phlegmatic diseases, will acquire lands. 

8. Mars.—Wife will bea source of unhappiness, very 
rough, very litigious, sickly. 

4. Mercury—Many wives, will study law, traveller, 
sceptic. 


116 ‘TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. — [car. 


5. Jupiter.--Wife.of very noble birth, happy, wealthy. 

6. Venus.—Many wives, will study logic and grammar, 
will follow various professions, will lose wives and sons. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Hen-pecked, practical 
man, will lose ancestral property. In middle age will 
suffer from bilious diseases. 


Wzuen VIRGO IS THE 8TH HOUSE. , 

1. Sun.—Will lose parents in early life, very irascible 
and insubordinate. Though obliging will get into difficul- 
ties will suffer from diseases of the blood or nerves. 

2. Moon.—Will suffer from diseases of the’ brain, 
debtor, short-lived. 

3. Mare.—In middle age he will spoil his prospects by 
rashnesg, sickly. 

4. Mereury.—No education, will have many' enemies, 
sickly, will lose sons. 


5. Jupiter.—Will lose sons ; but will get sons in; old 
age by another wife. Happy in early life, debtor. ' 

6. Venus.—Will lose parents in early life, will have 
marks of wounds on the body, sorrowful, will suffer humilia- 
tion through women. 

7. Saturn.—Poor, unhappy, long-lived, will lose pacents 
in early life. In later life he will be free from troubles 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Short-lived, will lose 


wealth through relatives or enemies, will bad a ree 
will die a hard death. ia 


WHEN LIBRA IS THE 9TH Hovss. 


1. Sun.—Will lose parents in early life, very, charitable 
and famous, will be fond of buildings, will be a tradesman. 


2. Moon.—Will lose relatives on the father’s side, will 
misappropriate wealth intended for charitable purposes, 
will build houses and dig tanks. 


3. Mare.—B8tingy and uncharitable, will be a robber or 
murderer. Will lose ancestral property, enemy of rela~ 
tives. 

4, Mereury.—Will bea teacher, will establish charitable 
institution with public help, will be an author, born of 
poor parents. 


XV.] TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 117 


5. Jupiter.—Will squander away ancestral property, 
will be a commentator on legal topics. Sons born in old 
age will alone survive, will ba a thought-reader. 


6. Venua.—Will inherit a good estate, very religious 
and devotional, charitable, will establish charitable institu- 
tions in middle life. Many wives. 

7. Saturn.—Stingy, forger, will earn wealth by dis- 
honest means. 

8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tail.—Willlose parents in 
early life. Will suffer humiliation at the hands of rela- 
tives, will lose brothers, many wives, wives will die imme- 
diately after parturition, shallow knowledge. 


WHEN SCORPIO IS THE 10TH HOUSE. 


1. Suz.—Will not be. present at parents' deathbed. 
Will rise to great fame in middle age. 


2. Moon.—Will regain ancestral property, but only to 
lose it again, wealthy, will inherit others' property. 


3. Mars.—Will not have landed property, will do 
menial service, courageous, traveller, blacksmith. 

4. Mercury.—His learning will be a source of livelihood, 
not very wealthy, unhappy in early life. 


5. Jupiter.—Will acquire much wealth, mathematician, 
lecturer, will perform religious rites. 

6. Venus.—Singer or actor, will have landed _pro- 
perty, will do menial service in early life, but will be 
famous later on. 


7. Saturn.—-Will do menial service, engine-driver. 
Miserable, unhappy in youth and old age. 


8&9. Dragon's Head & Tatl.—Willdo menial service, 
will serve others expecting remuneration, but will be 


disappointed, irreligions, will be a scoffer. 
WHEN SAGITTARIUS IS THE 11TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Self-respecting, will lose possession and enjoy- 
ment of his property, but will ultimately regain it. In 
youth will have a fall which will endanger life, but will 
survive. 


2. Moon.—Agricalturist, prosperous. Unhappy through 
elder brothers, will suffer humiliation in middle age. 


118 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &&. [CHAP. 


3. Mars.—No brothers, will suffer from earache, un- 
happy though wealthy. 

4. Mereury.—Polyglot, will be a chief, will have much 
property. Willlose relatives on the mother’sside. 

5. Jupiter.—Many brothers, very fortunate and wealthy, . 
will rise to great fame in old age. Will know logic, not 
an infidel. 

6. Venus.—Many sisters, fond of enjoyment, will have 
gardens, will be a judge. A clever writer. 

7. Saturn.—Few brothers, will fall into disrepute . in. 
middle age, will lose wives, traveller. 


8&9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—No brothers, insub- 
ordinate, will have many family troubles in youth. 


N CAPRICORN 18 THE 12TH Hovss. 

1. Sun.—Will earn livelihood in foreign states. No 
wealth, no enjoyment. 

2. Moon.—Will make voyages. Will trade in various 
things, will do menial service for a time. 

3. Mars.—Will wield weapons. . Venereal disease, liti- 
gious. 

4. Mercury.—-Traveller, will be a tradesman, charitable, 
wealthy. 


5. Jupiter—Debtor. In old age will suffer from dis- 
eases of the eye, will lose his own property by committing 
breach of trust. 


6. Venus.— Will travel much, charming speaker. No 
ancestral property, will enjoy buildings and gardens. .... -.j/ 


7. Saturn.— Will travel incognito, will not be happy 
till middle age, will be an agent. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head & Tatl.—Will earn much in’: 
middle age, but subsequently will lose all and travel. Will 
fali into disrepute. 


PISCES. 


One born under Pisces will be wealthy, heroic, of a hand- 
some person; Wise, sometimes a sceptic, fond of flowers 
and scents, very fond of relatives and useful only to them, 
stingy, extremely greedy. Will suffer from earache or:: 


XV. TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &c. 119 


will have a defect in the leg. Unscrupulous, in the 12th 
and 20th years will suffer from fever. Inthe 38th or 50th 
year he will suffer from asthma ; consumptive. 


WHEN PISCES IS THE 1ST HOUSE. 

1. Swn.—Sickly, will lose parents in early life. -No 
support from parents’ property, will not be on good terms 
with his superiors, short-lived. 

2. Moon.—Middle-sized, will live to middle age. Phleg- 
matic diseases, very little ancestral property. 

3. Mars.—Hot constitution, wealthy, will have to 
contend for his property, self-respecting. 

4, Merenry.—Many wives, unhappy, lean body, short- 
lived, self-respecting, wise. 

5. Jupiter.—Very clever. Long-lived,. wealthy, very 
fortunate, stout and strong, fair, wise, will learn many 
things, intelligent. 

6. Venus.—Dissipatedhabits. Handsome, will lose his 
wealth in middle age. 

7. Saturn.—Ugly, will lose ancestral property. Un- 
happy, will live to middle age. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head §& Tatl.—Sickly, will live to 
middle age, debtor, traveller. 

WHEN ARIES IS THE 2ND HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Debtor, will lose ancestral property. Will 
have diseases of the eye, sickly parents. In middle age he 
will spoil his prospects by rashness. 

2. Moon.—Very troubled in mind, will try to learn many 
languages, lean body, not very wealthy. In middle age he 
will lose his wife and children, will have watery eyes. 

3. Aars.—Very courageous, will serve well and grow 
wealthy, very rough. 

4. Mereury.—AMild nature, near-sighted, learned. 

5. Jupiter.—Unhappy in youth but wealthy in old 
age, clever speaker, truthful. 

G. Venus.—Will be a buffoon, polyglot, happy in youth. 


7. Saturn.—Willlose his wealth, will be an apostate, 
will have diseases of the eyes. Broken fortane, unhappy. 


120 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &e. [CHAP. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head & Tail.—Ateacher, will be given 
to mental work, wealthy in old age, will get into trouble. 


WHEN TAURUS IS THE 3RD HOUSE. 
1. Sun.—Will lose brothers in middle age. Asthma, 
for some time dependent and subsequently independent. 


2. Moon.—Will follow various professions, many wives, 
happy. Will do menial service for some time. Will be a 
hand icraftaman. 


3. Mars.-~No brothers, will marry late. Wd! offer 
from ill-health in middle age. 

4. Mercury.—Few brothers, will be a painter, intelligent, 
lean body. Few enjoyments. 

5. Juptter.—Very good wife who will bring him wealth. 
Religious, will atady sciences. 

6. Venus.—Licentious, will enjoy lands and buildings 
in foreign places. Will trade upon his 

7. Saturn.—Will marry late, will suffer hamiliation in 
middle age, timid, few brothers. 

8 &9. Dragon’s Head and Tails--Very \astfinl. Will 
lose brothers, will have disease of the ear in youth. 

WHEN GEMINI IS THE 4TH HOUSE. 

1. Sun.—Famous, self-respecting, will not enjoy his 
ancestral property, will live in foreign places. 

2. Moon.—Sickly, will lose parents in early life. In 
middle age he will acquire land. 

3. Mars.—Unhappy, will have good property. Will 
fall into disrepute in middle age. 


4. Mercury.—-Intelligent, will be a Yogee. Will know 
many things, very comprehensive intellect, wilttose rela- 
tives on the mother’s side in middle age, mothertong-lived. 

5. Juptiter.—Mother’s brothers and sisters very fortu- 
nate, ever happy, will learn many things, thonghtful 

6. Venus.—Will enjoy good vehicles, will lose sons, 
licentious, will acquire lands and buildings. 


7. Saturn.—Will renounce the world in middle age, 
will travel. Will lose mother's relatives, mother sickly. 


8 &9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Will lose mother 


122 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &e. [CHAP. 


8 .& 9; Dragon's Head and Tatl~Deébtor, chest, sickly. 


WHEN Vireo 18 THE 77H House. 


1. Sun.—Sickly wife, will lose wife, will be unhappy in 
youth, happy in old age, sickly, debtor. 


2. Moon.—Happy in old age, Self-respecting, sickly. 
8. Mare.— High-handed wife, unhappy, will acquire land 


in old age, rash. 


4.i' Mercwry.—Patient, lean body, not wealthy, will know 
mathematics and law, will be a pandit, will travel. 


5. Jupiter.---Will study much, will ba a garu, will be 
respected by kings, sickly, wealthy in old age, wae wall 
live long. 


6. Venus.—Will lose Wife, lean body, will be fortunate 
in early life, sudden death. 


7. Saturn —Will lose wife, bf :middling statare, short- 
lived, unhappy, will rise in middle age bat will s00n fall, 
will deal in medicines or explosives. ‘00-0 "5: 100% (i. 'e'e'e 


8 & 9. Dragon’s Head and Tal. Unhappy through 


wife, sickly, tall, traveller, will lose wife in old age, lazy. 


(i od: 
WHEN LIBRA 38 THE Sr# House. 


1. Sun.—Sudden death, very unfortunate, unbappy. 
2. Moon.—Sudden death, very unfortunate, will study 


in foreign places, but he will not rise in his native place, 
will lose family. 


3. Mars.—Hypochondriac, sickly,. will die. ina iene 
place, will create enemies in middle age. -::.39 § Gc 


4. Mercury.—Short-lived, lean body, unene: safal edu- 
cation, will lose relatives on the mother’s side. 


5, Jupiter.—Will live to middle age. Tall, unhappy, 
debtor. 


6. Venus.—Will get wealth through women, will lose a 
fortunate wife in middle age, will be drowned, will have a 
fall which will produce a defectin the limb. 


7. Saturn.—Long-lived, will have enemies, will live in 
foreign countries, unhappy. 


8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tatl.—Long-lived, will lose 
wife and children, debtor, self-respecting. 


xv.] 123 


WHEN SCORPIO 18 THE 9TH HOUSE. 


1. Sun.—Wealthy and famous, will be unhappy in 
middle age, sickly, will not enjoy ancestral property. 


2. Moon.—Willget wealth from various quarters, will 
lose sons in middle age. 


3. Mars.—Will acquire much wealth, stingy, will lose 
sons in old age, bold., 

4. Mercury.—Thoughhimself bad yet will be a good 
adviser, poor parents, will lose his reputation in old age. 
Very greedy, will lose, daughters in middle age. 

5. Jupiter.—Willlearn a great deal, thinker, wealthy, 
will, rise to great fame in middle age. 

6. Venus.—Willlose sons in old age, will acquire wealth 
in youth, licentious and lustful, bad hearted, disobedient wife. 

7. .8aturn.-Unhappy; broken fortune, ungenerous, ir- 
religious, 8C@PLIGy 2). 1... 

8 ,& 9... Dragon’s Head andl Tail. —Lover of religions, 
will acquire wealth in middle age, miser, unpopular, but 
respected by kings, , - 


« Waew Sagrvanima ig THE 10TH HOUSE 

1. Sun.—Willenjoy-kingly fortune, poor parents, cun- 
ning. -For some timé;will be a teacher, will be a cheat of a. 
very high order, will lose sons in old age, will rise to great 
fame in middle age. 

2. Moon.—-Sickly, will have a small ancestral property, 
will learn various ¢hiags, will lose sons. 
3.’ Mars.=Wilb reprise magisterial powers. Traveller, 
wealthy, will suffer humiliation in middle age. 

4. Mercury.—Willtake high honours in education, stingy, 
will acquire lands. Fickle-minded. 

, Jupiter.---Wilktudy logic and law, wealthy, self- 

respecting, wise, will do commendable deeds, long-lived. 

6. Venus.—W «til enjoy many vehicles, famous, spend- 
thrift, licentious. 

7. Saturm.--Will suffer humiliation in middle age, 
unsettled profession; nnhappy, irreligious. 

8 & 9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Irreligiousjraveller, 
will help many, unsettled profession. 


124 TWELVE SIGNS OF ZODIAC AT BIRTH, &C. [CHAP. XV. 


WHEN CAPRICORN IS THE 11TH HOUSE. 
it Lo: Sen.—Will squander his property, will lose wife and 
children, will have diseases of the eye or head. 

2. Moon.—Will have few sons, will lose wife, traveller, 
sweet talker. 

3. : Mars.—Wilhave much wealth, will lose some wealth, 
will lose his‘wife,‘ sickly. 

. 4, Mercury.—Small property, mathematic 
°'5.. Jupiter.—Poor,"' valiant, for some time will be 
teacher, then will serve the State, but will not prosper. ' 

6.. Venus.—Many wives, sickly, debtor, will losa aged 
sons and brothers in middle age. 

7. Saturn.—No sons, nnhappy, unsettled profession in 
old age, will do menial service. 

"8’& 9.'° Dragon's Head and il.— itipnant;* 

earn his living by dishonest means, will have enemies, wise. 
WHEN AQUARIUS IS THE 12th Hovsg. . 

v'y Bin. Will be an engineer, will tr avel, unhappy’ 

old age, Will suffer from asthma. 

2. Moon.—Not very happy, will lose property. Parentis 
who werein prosperous condition before his birth’ will come 
to grief during hia lifetime ; sickly. 

8.’:Mars.—Verynnhappy in youth, will earn mach but 
willlose all, will suffer humiliation in middle age. 

4. Mercury.—Notvery wealthy, though not very learned 
will thrive well. Fickle-minded and unhappy. 

5. Jupiter—Will live to middle age, very liberal; 
popular,*; famous, will live in a foreign place, wise, fickle- 
minded, mathematician. 

6. Venus.—Thoughnot very wealthy willbe very happy, 
debtor, will earn his livelihood in various ways, will lose 
wives in middle age. 

7. Saturn.—Miser,haughty. Dull-headed, forger, un- 
happy. 

8&9. Dragon's Head and Tail.—Wilkarn his livelihood 
by following a profession which necessitates much travel- 
ling. Happy in old age, will have to contend for ancestral 
property. During middle age he will incur the disp € 
of his superiors, but wilt get over his difficulties, 


A DEFENCE 


HINDU: ASTROLOGY. 
Definitions 


1, Hindu Astrology .ia divided into three, parts— (a), As- 
tronomy, (8) Astrology (horoseopy) (c) “Astrolog logy (horary). 
Astronomy treats of the heavenly. bodies, , the cause of the 
different seasons, the year and other divisions of time, the 
phases of the moon, the times for the various prescribed 
religions cerémonibs. ("4 


_ 2. ., Horoscopy treats, of the good and ban fortunes that 
occur to all; living bein gain the. world, and ; also to trees 
and plants,. as. indicated, "by. | the ,positiong of the planets at 
the time such, béings come-into existence, 1; 4.,,- -- 

- BL: Horary Astrology is “that science which includes the 
answering of particular: questions, by reference to the posi- 
tion of the heavenly bodies' at the time ; whether the ques- 
tioner communicates: his question to the astrologer, or 
whether the >latter finds outithe question as well as the 
answer from the planets. 

ar ne aeons & says done on brother astrology, 
page 3) tha tro 18 8D 16} rother, of astro- 
nomy. : Bat wile Behave rScabsa, -us to find ont the 
different times and seasons, astrology tells us their signi- 
ficance, i.e., whether particutar days are lncky or unlucky. 
Astrology is therefore of the greatest use and importance 
to all men as a guide in the affairs of daily life. Astrology 
was born atthe same time as astronomy, and is its twin 
brother, jnst as the brilliance of the sun was seen as soon 
as that luminary appeared. ' 


The origin of Astrology. 

4. Sir T. Madhava Bow says (Notes on Hindu Astro- 
logy, page $): "From the study of astronomy, the Brah- 
mins were easily led to:the study of Astrology. As they 
were credited by the. great body of fhe people with the 


126 A DEFENCE OF HINDU ASTROLOOY. 


power of predicting striking phenomena’ of nature, they 
came to be credited generally with the power of knowing 
the future. They were -accordingly consulted as to all 
sorts of future events. The cultivator of the soil consulted 
them as to when the rains might be expected, when the 
rivers would be in flood, and then when the delivery of his 
wife would take lide} whether the issue would be male or 
female, how long would the child live, what its fortunes 
would be, and so on. All such questions were answered, 
those relating to the seasons, etc., as a matter of calculation, 
the others as a matter of guess-work; most of the predic- 
tions founded ‘bn'e&léulation were fulfilled as the result of 
known natural laws.. Some of the predictions, made as 
mere puesses, were also fulfilled by chance, or as a matter 
of probability.” " APT | Ae = 7 

This is incorrect. According to this the common people 
went to consult the astrologer, about the eclipses, etc., 
fhibkiip' "ho! would’ tila “fdretell the future. India was a 
Gvilized Gotintty' frm” very early times.’ Those of the 
jéopleé'whcWwere not learned, on recaiving’ answers from 
astrologers not in cdnfortmty with the actual events, would 
spon dave: meplented astrology. The very fact of their 
always having reeanrse to it shows that there is much truth 
in it. The sé¢al reason why astrologers were consulted at 
all about futare:events is that it was found by common 
experience/ that :their predictions frequently, if not invari- 
ably, turned out correct. 


. Derivation of-the Sanskrit word for "Astrologer." 
"58 Abpro Obi Sanebrit ia 1a, which means, ac- 
‘the’ Amsrakoss, one who declares the fate or- 
dained by Géd.”'' ‘Astrological books were defined as works 
treating of the fate of beings. Even in Rigveda it is 
Stated ‘“ prathyaksham jyothisham brahmo: 'si,"" ‘Thou 
Brahma art astrology, always before us.” This shows the 
kntinnity of ustrolopy. 

6. Sir T. Madhava Row says (Notes on Hindu Astrology, 
page 5): “ Krishna was born when the moon was in the Rohini 
group of stars, sad. Krishna put his uncle to death. It 
was hence ;generalizeu that whoever is born when the 
moon is so situated must be very unfavorable to his uncle." 


v*Thia’isa incorrect,’ becease the astrological meaning of the 
moon ‘in Rohini at birth was fixed long before the birth of 


A DEFENCE OV HINDU ASTROLOGY, 127 


Krishna. i The son of Snrpanaka, sister of Havana, was born 
when the »mopn was in Rohini, and we know that; Havana 
died a violent death ; the prediction ‘‘ unfavourable . tcis 
uncle”? was, falfilled in this case. It may, be observed, how- 
ever, that for this signification to be exact, other concurring 
signs,: besides ‘* moon in Rohini,"' must be present, in the 


horoscope.. *' ::° -: - ° 


Vegetables, animals and men are created, destroyed and 
preserved as the result of planetary effects, natural effects, 
and terrestrial effects. 


7. : All_animals take in twenty times as much air as faod 
therefore if that air is non-existent We can easily understand 
there will be an end of animal existence on earth. The Hindus 
seeing that the Europeans have introduced in to this country 
railways, telegraphs, and other wonderful modern inventions, 
think them almost gods, and believe anything they say ig 
absolutely true ; and ' since many Europeans’ ignore the 
science of : astrology;’ many Hindus follow’ their ‘ 

Had the Hindus themselves studied their existing featives 
on astrology, and tested their conclusions, they.:would not 
have followed theEuropeans in their rejection of tha science. 


How the heavenly bodies. influence,men,animals and, 


«plants 

8. According to dainéndrasutram, all. living thingajin 
the world are above the earth and below. the heavena, 
These living things, the earth, and, the heavens have accord- 
ing to the Scriptures five kinds ‘of vital airs called respectivery 
prana, apdna, yydna, udhdna, saméne.* They have also 
three kinds of vital fires, and through the interaction of these 
vital airs and vital fires result the several seasons, the 
different states of health, creation, destruction, preservation, 
etc. First from the heavenly bodies we get ether and. from 
ether, air, from these two, fire, from these three, water, from 
these four, earth. As earth also inclades all the living 
beings thereon, these also are made up of the five elements. 


¢ The fi*e vital afea ara the following :— 7 
Préne—is the air in the heart, and ascenda A. 
Apéoa ia the air in the anos, and descends. 
Vyéna—ie the air in all parte of the body, é,¢., cecal air, 
Udhdna—is the air in the throat, and keeps down the food and dritk. 
Beméoa—is the air in the navel, and carries the groaaer and finer-por- 
tions of food and drink to different parts of tha body.;:.  ...... 


128 AY DEFENOK OF HINDU ASTROLOGY: 


of aie Tne Gas Bie Bagy oe lag in 
disease. Similarly cri exerts Mig yh dther infldences: 
Tordmedy bbiily disturba nde: sctising rbmicthe | ‘infldence of 
heat::or' cold; ‘various: devices: have: bese inveitéd such: “a6 
firos;' garménts; the'use of ice, etoy' ts ura ined Hero 


Whe ploy vhls ogg basn bows ee Ff tates ol id nuit cytes 
2 ms ater, on fire be irate soy aa nti ee 

a by a DBI 9 BU ilar ‘living 
Phisd ER Arena) pelea 2a aye a 


ae po anhars, ee peal ck ofthe heagenly 


O8., nuiteize siowd ng Sa raviewmendd enbatdl ads jasfl 


dn Seigtiaa a ohild,: born from ite: oF baele comb reside eieg 


moiber. 50 we bora on this aarils are ‘aubj 1 “the in. 
ioe rte i Whib Vath by Us bos el is 2 a 


eans also allow that“thére is a mutual attraction 
ibe dp-betwedn: allitht heavenly bodies:and: this. world, 
and the existence of this influence bhows thatthe bther four 
influences also: exist." Whenaver we see 'srioke :we infer 
there is fire, from ‘the presence bf fire we infer, that of water, 
and eo on. ~The Word "man signifies a ‘being endowed -with 
several organs'and with mind]: /Thne i¢%is not unreasonable 
to infer the existence of all five inflaentes when the existence 
of one: is proved: - 
ig no one of ther: oan exist without the other four. 


‘The English firet held tho theory that the sun moved 
ee the earth, and thought there Wa DO land to the weat 
of Europe. Subsequently these two views have been 
changed, and they say now. fhat.the earth moves round the 
son. America has been.discorered . by. Colambus.- This 
shows that their theories “are'not “necessarily incapable of 
change. It is well knowii thst’ Hindu astrocomical calcala- 
tions with negerd to eclipses,.£0.,.are correct, notwithstand- 
ing that earth is their:centre.:*‘ Hither, therefore, the earth 


AODEPENCE OF VAINDU ASTROLOGY. $29 


és thevaitre, or. their: ‘exlcalatidns.aré notin ¢hejonst affected 
ve whatever, ib-night He. «[-a- voi eacpanzcnc! 


aldlailaririr ein 


The Moon gives forth twenty-one different kinds of rays. 
In} of'one ofthe is of the pel dex.); a rene nea 
‘oné kindvof rays make one change }'‘thersfore in the 80 dep! 
théy: Change forty-sdven “ties: Oy bach of thebs twenty 
we kinde‘of rays ‘the: ‘oreation; preservation-and Aastra 
tion of zevon kids ‘of Deings are infldenced during oie t7eh 
‘of a-fodiacel sigh, Similarly «with the-other planets}: the 
Sufi tise five different: kinds of rays; and bheir infldendo tists 
yar ne ddgrés «Mate thas severvkinds of! pays: anptinio Re 
degiete iy Mereury hasiinedcinds of reyes lasting ove dome 
“has tat’ ‘Ainds ‘lasting’ five mintiveay Vanes fh 
#ixtuen kinds Jasting' ote degree; Saturn: asfoae kintly hae 
poche es ‘Of poe ten ringer ape 
gives ng pleasure when, we breathe, the ya ir contact 
ith ie bod i a shire, enters, or, Meee iar 
Real es Pldasore in. seeing, 140 ye off 
nth these; fi dag not act at ‘Hho prope 
‘prope er WAY PA in ig. th o ceault. |, TF a oan enter ges fe 
‘of yon ges he um ill -be suffocated ; ig ; if aman stares, abr @ 
‘sun, he is likely, to ecome blind, atid 60,0n,..,.; enitarains 
ou! 10, 21While ithe child sis ia: ithe ‘wonrb>it tis iti flndneed by 
ithe planets: through its: vital -airs.:! Allplants loome' tuto 
‘existence Abrough the Moon and: Venus; cbecause these two 
‘@raanateritvatery’ ‘rays’; coral; pearls,:'ahella, ete. dud: all 
animals found. id: water are produced by ‘thos two: : “Man 
id born ‘through the influence of the San and Jupiter; and 
-he dies under bho influende of -the:Moon. 1h Rigved# ibis 
‘ghid “Ohtmdirova ‘maranam, déath: iscfromudbe: Moon? 
JLThe moon gives coldness, and -when's maz -becomes:isbadt- 
‘mally cold, he diés. . Mincraty are prodaced through thelin- 
fluence of ‘Mars‘and Satarn..: Purity snd the growth of the 
-tliree. kingdoms: are under the: influence of the Suni: o-r': 


Necessity of accurate knowledge of the:time. ‘af birth, alc. 
al... The ‘time ‘must be determined ‘either: by.:means-of 
some mechanical contrivance, or from the eo wei by éhe 
son, or from. ‘the position of the heavenly ,. i ves the 
time-is'to ‘bb ‘caléulatetl From the’ position” “or ‘heavenly 
bodies,the*relative position of ‘the planets: tthe -ddter- 
-minod either from « traetworthy!alinsnac, or trout doonrate 
- observation lA horoscope is a map of ‘theheavenly bodies 

17 


1380 A DEFENCE OF :HINDU ASTBOLOGY. 


at thé! time of birth... The: chief difficulty.in making such 
horoscopes now-a-days.is the fact: that .mdat of the almanacs 


are unreliable. 
smn de etatiad scpecr FG vat adbtrod gauke aol 


. Aman is only happy. and. prosperons ; ;0 ‘Jong. a8 he cis 
under: sthe iufluence.of planets emanating auspicious rays:or 
emanating. aoe eud -ahdna (two -of . the. vital airs), bat 
ll.as the earth mnst.et the same time 
anranate préna: and, udhiniv. : Planets emanating prine and 
udhdne,exert-an. auspicious influence. Sach: parts af,; the 
earth as emanate these two vital pirs' ane,said top auppici- 
ous. places... Lhose. sodincsl aigns.evbich: emenata prdnaand 
udhéné, are, audpicions.; }Times iat.which prina pod sdhdne 
are being ‘emanated. are. said. to he guspicions ames. .i The 
emanation of apdna and.vydna is inauspicions. «| Theemsna- 
tion of, sqaména may ibe. aither, auspibiqas oranauspigions, 30 


1991979: Tn Hdbdtby a child is’ atsble’ tb: ah Sites 1a 
a coltifi Pe ‘ati “4 hi influence of itd Ypik 

e Nhotostlo C y, 5e mre ra’ } te tle: 

Ming atl! aftoi the e of five i erica ike 

say ting when the hile ableé'to io te uetia Says 

‘and “evil: "Dati the’ ‘age ‘of twelfé’the'i teniGe 


ati is only: “after thiscagothatithe sinfitieince fof aadiiste en 
eatth and the :jindividoal power. ofirésistatice2inithe man 
.act in their.due proportion.::: This ‘power iof vedistance znay 
‘be so far increased that-it will ‘not Only:;enable vthe man to 
resist outside inflnences, .but— farther. enable! ‘him: to. exert 
influence on outside things.. . It is !this power; ad by 
the Rishis in dapas:(penarice), etienesee ithem or im. 
Mancy te to ‘bum -up- men: ‘by merely, gazing at chs) <i (fh, 
. reoord. several | instances :in’. saith Rishie ack 
cotlisrs exerted, iat will, the most aren eT 
and things, creatin and -destro them. :::I 
these ‘Wines be: Gries ae eaaeents 1s tedbuto ‘in- 
finence to the emanations of planets. Though some of us 
do not believe ‘the ‘stories in the ‘Puranas, ‘we sre all well 
‘acquainted - nth ate zacead peng ‘exerted ‘by one man 
SE eHOEE: pera SUP) GROUT ECOL Bias 


| The Universe. ‘iceoriding to ‘Hindu stronbmy ae 


+ 


. 18. We. earn from -the. calculations 10f ; eclipses,’ ieto 
. made, by: Enropesa and Hindu, astronomers, thst the calca- 
. lations ‘erevcorrect in. both: countries. § The nelative-pasi- 


A DEFENCE OF HINDU ASTROLOGY. 181 


The Qualities. and; Properties of Zodiacal signs .and: | 
Planets according to Garga Sutra (3 Adhy> 9:1" 

14. The berth fej divided’ into' twelve equal parté;' each of 
which is a zodiacal sign.' *'‘Bach such ‘part is divided into 
80 parts (bhaga,!degree).” 'A'bhaga 'is divided into’ 60 
Kalas’ (?} or breaths; , If all the signs make oué revolu- 
tion, it makes'dne day and night.’ Each Rasi takes five 
Indian hours (1,800 breaths) 'to pass from’ one station to 
another.’ This sgn {1,800 breaths) is* called a Brahma 
swaga, its length varies in different countries, the variation 
depending on the positions of the Sun_and Moon. , In 
Indian calculations Ceylon is taken as .tbe first station; 
this ig called Lankarfsiménasankya, . Spherical . bodjes, 
moving in ,the ,heavens, ,are called planets; when these 
bodies come opposite any sign jn Jthe zodiac, they; are said 
to be in that sign, A heavenly body, possesses [five ole- 
ments, five vital airs, five colors, three qualities (gynas), and 
five forces. Soryasidbanta says the sun travels through 
one sign in one month, Mars at the rate of forty-five days a 
sign, the: Moon two and a quarter days, Mercury and 
Venus each one month, Jupiter one year, Saturn two years 
and a half, the Moon's ascending and descending nodes 
eaoh ayear and a half. 


Properties of signs and planets as laid down by Sainya 
Muni and vipa gle cahle an as 
The gign Aries is red, oblong, ful) of forests and hills, a 
hot Gogniey. inhabitants of whch are always dark in cow- 


i a USFEEUE OF ERD seTRoLecY. 


ken, soe ae monatror in -festarea; 4 con: 
ino waar | Et inl of iFren "Es : a Wael mai beth 
eald attid hot, of thaee seven faye five: conteth prawa, vital 
Ait wine tinising wpine, aod oue the other three vitel airs: 
When the sun comes to that sign, the sign is. at the height 
crane at 18 the prope t home of the aun ¢ that. peed ai 
tims whea. the aco.ie in ‘that = called - Vasonigersia. | 


* inp wd wt ig to thirds | ‘water, ‘dor esta ‘and mountaitis ; it is 
white i in; colour; .one-third is. inhabited ; the inhabitants of 
that part are some white aod some brown. ‘The white race 
is very, strong and, dull intellectually, ‘The -inbabitanta 
poss cs, fomoguaaye.. Tt ‘has, eight Taya, ‘thrde prana vayt, 
acigcte aie Wey tly sex ane other thtea vayus. Foor rays 

ob, td, , nF, cold.- Tis form is round. Tt is the 

hi st ae cho ele rest at ae re : 

8 yee ribs quality) ; it is of 

te poi Jofldoral, :its, yer at ba 78, rye, 

rare hat, ope egld, one hot. aud cold., These; rayd are 

pel sss eat yim ‘apanes: tay aod oné.the lee uayep. Th 

all, the five, elements in au equal d ear .. ‘The 

IN0OR, ig me, ‘of | twenty-one watery rayé, Of ich glaven 

ate ‘oold, three. hot, seven cold and hot... Three are prdne 

rays, eleven, apdna cayv, seven of other: rays. Te leg 
Pee ~ cal five ecraiaeing Tia a is round. 


ofthe moon. Ifa pation bé* born when the indo id in 
Tetrud, Heil be under the fillest infloends df ‘the move, 
Aint bUtY at ‘doch & tiie Will be vary fenerows, intelli 

mt, ‘wild of epevch, wealthy, afhoted with constinphion, of 
ee. Sinilirly fot dtlier planets atid signa.’ 


< e Origin: OF. the Signe. 
iv De’ fa anton in Setnpamuat ‘Suira aya thet when 
Lawara (the Lord) wea ‘telling the provava minivans to-Par- 
‘vathi, ‘his'som Gubramaiia happened 'to hear it,and havin 
earl ts nokoown My his re ‘wren wad ' ietental 
imgelf..dewars wanted to fod him, and did ao au tevlogi- 
al acieace. Lh pamesofth ‘who rosie y into 


A DEFENCE OF UINDL ASTROLOGY. loo 


Saunaka; Paramasiva taught this science to these eighteen, 
and they taught it to the world. 


Subjects that must be learned by an Astrologer. 


The determination of the time of birth accurately to a 
swcaga (about * of a second). He must know what planets 
influence what countries, and the strength of the planetary 
influence at different times ef the day. Counting from the 
Swasa of birth, the places of the planets should be known. 
One should kuow the properties an@ nature of each planet. 


How Astrology is essential to men. 


A knowledge of good and bnd times will save a man 
much trouble and expense. The ceremony of Jathakarma 
(first ceremony after birth) is the most important in a man's 
life. Varahamihira says a man must know his birthday, 
and if he does not know it he is like a beast. To deny the 
existence of astrology ia to deny the authority of the 
Védis. It is said in Rigveda that of the shadangas (six 
portions) astrology is the eye of Brahma. Just as the eye 
is the most important of the senses, so astrology is the 
most important of the ## gas. Now that there is so 
little encouragement given by the general public to astro- 
logy, really good astrologers are getting very scarce. This 
is oueé main reasou why so tmauy astrological predictions 
fail. Siuece the knowledge of astrology is essential, and 
good astrologers are s¢aree or rare, every man ought to 
cultivate the science for himself. 


Sciences such as astrology peculiar to Judia receive the 
least support aud aid from the State; native gentlemen who 
arc educated in Western sciences aud languages join with 
foreigners in bringing discredit ou these sciences. In 
India, in olden times, many kings encouraged this science. 
This science has been left to perishuncared for owing to 
the selfishuess aud want of unanimity among educated 
Hindus. 

The consequences of learning the significance of lucky 
and unlucky limes in matters of daily life. 

Ifa man is already able to kuow how long he will live, 
he can satisfy all his desires, make preparations aud 
arrangements forhis death, and provide for his family. Some 
sensible men may even be ubleto extend their lives. There 
was one Kolachirainayanar, who having learned before- 


134 A DEFENCE OF HINDU ASTROLOGY. 


hand that he would die in his 35th year by snuake-bite, went 
to a mahatma, and, acting according to his orders, avoided 
the risk of his life and lived a long life. Markanda heard 
beforehand he would die in his 16th year, and spent all his 
time in worshipping Siva. When Yama came to take him, 
Siva saved him. If a man knows before-hand he is liable to 
suffer punishment, he can avoid it by being very cautious 
at that time.: 


To whom Astrology is true and to whom it is false. 


It is false to those who do not trust others, who are not 
well-behaved, wanting in confidence. Ifa man lacks faith, 
he will be indifferent as to accuracy in noting the time of 
his birth, and therefore will only get an inaccurate horo- 
scope. Faith is necessary in every science. Yak satyam, 
Mono satyam, Kay a detthathryam, etc., (Bigveda,) truth 
speaking, truth thinking (faith), liberality, One who has 
faith in astrology notes the time of birth and other times 
very accurately, and learns the lucky and unlucky dates in 
his life, and is thus benefited. A Pandian king named 
Yadaykattar having learned beforehand that a famine last- 
ing twelve years would commence at a certain date, pre- 
pared to meet the same, and did so successfully by storing 
up grain, and rearing goats beforehand. He was thus able 
to save his subjects from a great calamity. He prayed to 
God not to send such famines hereafter, and the prayer 
was heard. Rajah Sir T. Madhava Row says (Notes on 
Hindu Astrology, p. 49) : That belief in astrology is very 
mischievous, but the above shows itdoes great good in 
the contrary. Astrologers should adapt their predictions 
to different countries. In some countries there is no differ- 
ence of caste. In those countries the highest class should 
be regarded as Brahmins and others as Sudras ; therefore if 
any question is put to the astrologer on the subject of caste 
in the horoscope, if it is that of a Brahmin it will be a 
person of high rank. Similarly he should adapt his other 
predictions to the manners and customs of the different 
countries. 


The science of astrology is closely connected with other 
sciences. By means of astrology one can learn facts which 
belong to other. sciences. For instance, i=—medicine, the 
doctor can only lesrm the disease from the symptoms, but 
the astrologer can discern the nature of the disease and its 
duration from the patient's horoseppe, A 


A DEFENCE OP HINDU ASTROLOGY. 135 


Yoga philosophy is intimately connected with astrology. 
Patanjali divides the body into six parts, each part being 
again sub-divided into two other parts, making twelve inall, 
corresponding to the twelve signs of the zodiac. He calls 
the Aradharamulam the place of Saturn and of Akasa(or 
ether) (saui) where Capricorn and Aquarius are situated. 
The second division belongs to Jupiter, Pisces, aud Sagit- 
tarius; it is the place of vayu (wind). The third division 
belongs to Mars, Aries, and Scorpio, fire. The fourth 
division belongs to Venus, Libra, and Taurus, water. The 
fifth division belongs to Mercury, Gemini, and Virgo, and 
earth. The sixth division is divided into two parts and 
contains Moon, Cancer and includes five elements in one 
part; and the other contains Sun and Leo and five ele- 
ments. The right side is thepingalanadi, and the season 
from January 17thfor four months. The left is Lda nadi, 
and the season from June to September. The middle river 
and middle season from December to January and February. 
The drift of Yoga is the union of Sun and Moon in the Ila 
nadi, this is Ata Yogam. If this is done in Pingala nadi it 
is called Raja yogavi. In the central nadi it is called 
Satwa Yogavi. When the rays of the sun aud moon are 
directed to the place of Mercury, then it is called Pratamanga 
Yogam. The subject will live without disease for some time 
during that period. If Sun, Moon aud Mercury he taken 
to the place of Venus it is called Tyayhru Yoyum. If Sun, 
Moon and Venus be taken to the place uf Mars, it is called 
Shudanga Yogam. 


If Sun, Moon, and Venus aud Mars are brought to the 
place of Jupiter, it is called Sa ptcnga Youam. If Sun, 
Moon, Venus, Mars and Jupiter are brought to the place 
of Saturn, it is called Ashlangs  Voyum. Merging into 
Brabma is acquiring al! these Yogams successfully. By 
pratamanga Yoqum one can protect himself from whatever 
evil that may befall him inthis world. By Vyaghra Yogavi 
one can predict what relates ts: heavenly as well as earthly 
beings. If Sun, Moon, Mercury, and Venus are brought 
under Mars (Trijanga Yegaw , one is able to predict what 
relates to all the three worlds. One acquires the power of 
the supreme deity (ishwara) if he is master of the above 
three Yogams. The above is the summary of the entire 
system of Yoga philosophy. 


The sex of a person can bo determined bv the position 


136 A DEFENCE OF HINDU ASTEOLOGY. 


of Japiter, Saturn, Mereury, Venus or Mara ;.'Japiter and 
Mars signify male sex.. Saturn is conrmon 40: both. sakes, 
If Satarn is in conjunction with the male. planéte the tub. 
jéct is a male, if in conjunction with the female planeta the 
subject is female. - The position of. Sstm'n gives the final 
determination of the sex. - He WaT AM NTA aiesity 4 
“Tf the: subject is botn' nudet the ‘two mhalé plinete ind 
under ‘a male zodiack! sign’ h6 i4 male, if pier forte 
planets and a female sign the satijéct is fétrale. Tf'inva 
otoscope the majority of thé male planets'ate in male sigits, 
the subject is a male and “rice ‘tersd.’ “IE betwaeh “the 
fourteenth and seventeéuth, or ‘twéuty-firdt “aid twiaity- 
fifth, or twenty-seventh and twenty-ninth daprées ‘of ‘< 
female sign the majority of female platets Aré found, the 
subject isfetnale. If the subject is born under’ mals kign, 
‘and if between the first and the third, dovdhth'aha thiftedtth, 
twenty-first ‘and twatty-cighth degresl “of thit ‘st ‘the 
yhajority of sale. planets sré found, the ‘bibiéet is 
Tf the subject is botn unde?.a female sign, and tlie’ thijoe 
6f,.malé plauets are found. between the “Hist aud, sitth, 
eleventh and nineteenth, aud twenty-féurth ‘atid ee 
dégrees Of that sign, the subjéct is ridle'and vic beret, bat 
‘uideér different degrees, viz., fifth to téith CN pie t 
ninetéenth, twehty-seventh to thirtieth. tt the subjeut 
born onder a female sigh and trder degries -ohe, five, 
nine, fifteen, twenty-four or twenty-nine; ‘or if bora tinder 
a rhale sign under the fourth, seventh, elevéiith, seVdtitéenth, 
twenty-second, or twenty-eighth degree, if the lord sf the 
fifth house, counting from the birth sign, be female, the 
subject is female, or if the planet be male; the aubject:is 
male. In the foregoing rule it is necessary that the fifth 
house from the birth sign abould be occapied by a female 
plauet and the birth sigu be also female and vice versd, If 
any of the four above rules cannot be applied to a particular 
horoscope, it is certain that the snbject is not a human 
being. 50% 


Mate Zodiacal Signs. . 

Aries, Gemini, Teo, Libra, Supittaring, mid Aquarida,'tit 
male signs. Tauris, Cancer, Virgo, Beotrpio, Ca aritorn, 
and Pisces nre female signs. Under these signs ‘the male 
degrees (in male signs) are 8, 7, 11, 18, 21, and 28; dither 
derrees are female. The female pe ge (in feniale signs) 
are 1, 6, 12, 20,25 and 28; the other deprees-are ‘tiale. 


A DEFENCE OP HINDU" ASTROLOGY, 137 


If the birth sign is a male sign and divided into sixty 
equal parts, and if the subject is born between degrees two 
and five, eight and eleven, sixteen and eighteen, twenty- 
one and twenty-three, twenty-seven and thirty, thirty-four 
and thirty-seven, forty and forty-one, forty-eight ana fifty, 
and fifty-five and fifty-six, the subject is male, but not neces- 
sarily human. If born under the other degrees, the subject 
isa female. If the subject is born under a female sign, under 
or between the degrees above enumerated, the subject is 
female ; if born under the other degrees it is a male (may 
not be human). For further details on this point, the 
reader is referred to the writer's work on astrology called 
“Jothisha Pragyana Dipika.” 


Caste is determined by Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Moon and 
the lord of the ninth house. If the majority of these 
planets exert auspicious influence in the signs 1,4, 5, 7, 9, 
and 10 (counting from the birth sign), and if in any one of 
these signs the majority of the five planets are found between 
the 22nd and 26th degrees, and that sign is moveable, or 
the majority of the planets are found under any one sign 
between the fourteenth and eighteenth degrees, and that 
sign is stationary, or if the majority of the planets are 
found in any sign between the third aud seventh degrees, and 
that sign is neither moveable nor stationary, the planets in 
these positions signify caste. The caste is Brahmin pro- 
vided Jupiter andSun are in the majority, aud exercise a 
strong influence. The subject is Kshatriya if Mars and 
Sun are in the majority, Mars being lord of the ninth 
house. If Mercury and Venus are among the majority, the 
subject is Vaisya. If Saturn aud Moon 'the Moon's as- 
cending and descending nodes) are among the majority the 
subject is Sudra. Similarly, in countries where no castes 
exist, the rank of the subject can be ascertained. 


Rules about husband and wife. 

If either Venus, Saturn, Sun, or Mercury is lord of the 
seventh house, and located in the second, sixth, eighth or 
twelfth house, the wife will die beforeher husband. If the 
same planets be located in the second, sixth, seventh, 
eighth or eleventh house, if the sign of the house be move- 
able, and the planets are between the 9th and 14th degrees, 
or if the sign of the house be immoveable, and the planets’ 
are between the 14th aud 19th degrees, or if the sign of 
the house be both moveable and immoveable, and tha 


138 A DEFENCE OF HINDU ASTBOLOGY.- 


planets are between the 19th and 27th degrees, the wife 
will die as soon as the marriage takes place. Similarly 
other directions are given for ascertaining the fidelity of 
the wife. (See Jothisha Pragyana Dipika.). The moveable 
signs are Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn; the immove- 
able signs are Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius; the rest 
are both moveable and immoveable. 


REMARKS 


ON 


RAJA SIR T. MADHAVA RAO'S PAMPHLET. 


- rT. Madhava Rao knows astronomy and gives a goo 
definition of it, but, being ignorant of astrology, misrep- 
resents it. Because he has no faith in it he advises others 
not to believe iu it. He says ‘ Astronomy is considerably 
true and astrology totally false," but if astronomy is admit- 
ted *to be true, it also follows that astrology is trne. On 

e 2 he says, that Brahmins, by astronomy, foretold ‘the 

ot season, the cold season, and the rainy season,” and these 

could be foretold only by attention to the position of the 

heavenly bodies. These results are not found ont by astro- 
nomical but by astrological calculations. 


, *6, He says (page 2; that Brahmins alone studied astro- 
nomy. Astronomy was studied by persons belonging to 
Other castes who attained as much proficiency as Brahmins. 
Ulamnudayan was of Vallala caste. Sainyamuni was a Sudra, 
and Aswamaya was not a Brahmin, and is one of the 


greatest astrologers. 


7. On (page 3) he says: "All such questions were 
anawered, those relating to the seasons, etc., as a matter of 
calculation, the others as a matter of guess-work."" This is 
incorrect. All questions were answered as a matter of calcu- 
lation, asa reference to the author's treatise on astrology 
will show. 

8. The Raja says (page 3), “Astronomy was born first, 
then was born Astrology, the illegitimate brother.” Astro- 


@ ‘The cooler fefer ic the paragraphs of Bir T. Madthara Ran's 


REMARKS ON THE RaJa’8 PAMPHLET. 139 


nowy and astrology are twin brothers; it is only since 
the days of Kepler and Flamstead they were divorced ; 
in origin they are inextricably bound together, and it is 
impossible to say which appeared first; in all ancient writ- 
ings they are no more separated than the sun’s brightness 
from the sun. 


9-10. The Rajasays (pp. 4,5) that the rules of astrology 
“‘have no agreewent or consistency," and hence the basis 
of astrology is destroyed. This isincorrect. The difference 
in the rules is not owing to difference in principles, but in 
the intellects of those who framed them. The various 
systems differ in some details, but are all the same in the 
main. In some places imperfect knowledge is the cause of 
defects. 


11. The Raja 'page 4) blames the rules of astrology 
because they show how the quality and quantity of planetary 
influence vary according to the position of the planets in 
relation to the zodiacal signs or one another. The writer 
might as well find fault with arithmetical calculations as with 
the fact that these variations occur in the quality and quantity 
of planetary influence. The claim astrology makes is that 
the position of the planets and zodiacal signs indicates 
certain matters regarding the fortunes of men. To do 
this properly there must be scope for infinite variety ; 
hence the exact position of the planets must be considered 
with reference to one another and to the signs of the 
zodiac. 


13. On page 5 the Raja states the direction with respect 
to the bad fortune of an uncle originated in a circumstance 
of the life of Krishna. There are sayings in Vedaand other 
shastras confirming the direction before Krishna was born. 

14. Ifitistrue " that the astrologers of different places 
and of different times acted in the manufacture of rules 
without concert, without comparison and without observa- 
tion, which is the foundation of all science,” it is at least 
very remarkable that in the main principles there is so 
much substantial agreement as we see in the astrolo- 
gical systems of every part of the habitable globe. No 
doubt a number of incorrect generalizations are current; 
these will be found on examination to be simply efforts on 
the part of half-taught astrologers to fill up the gaps in 
their knowledge. We do not see how the trains on the 
railway line are like the planets in the zodiac. 


140 


15. (a) The Raja says (page 6): “ The planetary colloca- 

¢ tion given is for the time of conception," and it 

is impossible to ascertain this time. The time 

taken by the astrologer is properly the time of 

birth. It is an error to try to take the time of 
conception. 


(6) He says Jupiter and Sa “ require hundreds of 
years to return to the same position."" Saturn 
and Jupiter return to the same relative position 

i nN exactly sixty.years. - 

(c) He implies that in astrology there are no fixed 
rules and no means of verifying them. To judge 
of the truth of this, some horoscopes of recent 
celebrities, such as are given in many European 

. works, should be consulted. (Vide Examples, 
pp. 51 and ¢ 58," Vol. I. of “The Text-Book of 
Astrology" by J. Pearcé.) : 


;: 16. Because the calculations are difficnlt, it does not fol- 
low that they are. impossible or their results untrue. In 
many cases there are no terrestrial probabilities to go upon, 
and yet astrologers give correct predictions. 


¢ 17. But if astrology is true, it must also be possible to 
forecast the environment as well as the fate of the organ- 
ism, i.e., calculations must be possible for members of 
the family, district and nation to which the subject belongs. 
It is claimed that such calculation can be made, and is the 
result of the natural order and sequence of the planetary 
arrangements, and thus the analogy of Sir T. Madhava Rao 
(the chance position of nine balls on a board) is a false one. 

18-20. One who is not acgnainted with both astronomy 
and astrology is not an astrologer. 

21. The Baja says (p. 9): “It seems absurd to suppose 
that the ant at aa time the health Shane sg nr 
cognizance of such matters (health, climate, heredity, 
education and other factors of character) and pea 
themeelves—with reference thereto.'' Beyond and above 
all these there is the Swabhavam of the child that the 
horoscope merely states. Nobody supposes that the planets 
arrange such things or themselves in reference thereto, but 
their relative position corresponds with the event. 


22. On page 9 the Baja gives a number of rules which 
he considers necessarily absurd.. But, if on experiment it 


141 


is found that astrological rules are correct statements of 
what tends to happen in given planetary positions, the 
absurdity disappears. Astrologers claim that these rules 
are correct statements. 


24. The planets are divided into castes, according to 
the nature of the influence respectively attributed to them. 
These divisions might of course have been expressed in other 
terms (as they were in other countries), but in old India 
the ancient caste division seemed the most convenient. 
Uranus and Neptune are not included in the old Indian 
works on astrology. European astrologers include them, 
but say that their influence, owing to their great distance, 
is so slight that it may generally be neglected for all prac- 
tical purposes. 


25. In Genethliacal Astrology, which is used for pre- 
dictions relating to the whole life of the subject, the time 
of birth is taken; in Horary Astrology, which relates to 
detached questions, the time of inquiry is taken as the 
basis of calculation. 


26-32. The original grounds which led to the framing 
of astrological rules are now lost, but astrologers claim that, 
if these rules are attended to, the results will be as pre- 
dicted. The truth or otherwise of these rules can only be 
tested by experiments. 


31-35. If there is any truth iu astrology, it is obviously 
advantageous to compare the horoscope of a bride and 
bridegroom before marriage. Most of the objections here 
urged by Sir T. Madhava Rao simply apply to the ignor- 
ance of astrologers and not to the science itself. 


36. Astrologers, he says (p. 17), are often consulted 
about stolen property and often give unsatisfactory replies. 
Here again experience is the only test. No doubt there 
are many iguorant rogues wha pass themselves off as astro- 
logers, and their slight knowledge of astrology does not 
turn them into honest men. 


37. On page 18 the Raja gives an instance of answering 
a question which, he says, is done entirely by guess-work. 
A good astrologer would make a calculation according 
to the rules of horary astrology and predict accordingly ; 
iu Europe, if not in India, several cases could be cited in 
which such predictions turned out perfectly correct. 


142 


38.40.. Here again (p. 18, 19) Sir T. Madhava Rao 
‘simply censures the: roguery of 'ignorant impostors—-whd 
are also aware that unless they prophecy pleasant things 
they will get no reward 


43-45. Tha Raja says (pp. 20) that astrologers get credi 
-for some of their predictions when they are not entitled to 
it; for they are those in which no good or evitis predicted 
and in which no good or evil happens ; amd-that *‘ there is 
mo prediction andano fulfilment. Both these suppositions 
ara unwarranted. When a mahurthum is fixed for a jour- 
ney, it is done in-order that the persons :making their jour- 
ney may reach their destination conveniently and without 
any injury befalling them on their way. Further, in most 
cases in which a muhurthum is fixed, the. object is not 
merely a safe journey, but something to be done after 
Teaching the destination. This is generally the case. When 
we ‘have to go to My lapore from Triplicane ‘to see « friend, 
‘or to attend a meeting, no one thinks of asking an astrolo- 
ger for a good muhurthum, but suppose there is Grahapra- 
vesan in My lapore after a marriage at Triplicane, a good 
muhurthum is songht for, nor can it be said in the; former 
case—that of a merely safe journey—that there is no pre- 
diction and hence no fulfilment, and that it isa case in 
. which no good or evil happens. Is it meant that there are 
no accidents befalling any person ona journey ? Or that 
all persons bound to a certain place reach it afteran equally 
pleasant journey ? Even so, in thehitter case, it is not so 
much the journey as the final object for which the journey 
itself is undertaken in which the person hag an interest and 
which tests the prediction.” Is itnot easy to see that in 
these cases good or evil may happen? ''° ~° 


46. As to the assertion about soma sstrologara who sin- 
cerely believe in the truth of astrology, but who are accused 
of bad reasoning, I submit that the nature of the science 
should be considered before pressing this charge. 
the science is most complex—concerning as it does the 
minutest details of the most complex. life—will be readily 
seen. As such it is no wonder if, in spite of the. most 
careful calculations, the predictions sometimes fail. Even so 
it as with medicine and every branch of knowledge in the 
. world. Because the doctor fails to cure a few cases, his 
science is not to be discredited... Sciantiata will .ba the first 
to admit how often they failed before they succeeded 


143 


making an experiment. But their failures do not warrant 
a wholesale condemnation of science itself. Examples can 
be easily multiplied. The fault iu the application of a 
science is not the fault of the science itself. 


47. The objections in this para. against astrology have 
been answered (p. 81, 136 & 187), and if the rules we have 
given there are observed in examining properly drawn 
horoscopes, the questions contained in this para. will 
be answered. It may be stated, however, in regard to 
the question as to what influence the planets can possibly 
exercise npon human lives aud destinies, that the sun is 
admitted to bo the source of life and energy by modern 
scientists, and it is plain that the sun, by the decomposing 
power of his rays, removes all noxious odours. The moon's 
influence iu the growth of plants and iu the budding and 
blossoming of flowers is also a fact needing no demonstra- 
tion. The suu is composed of various elements, according 
to tho results arrived at by the help of the Spectrum 
Analysis, and the ancients held, consistently therewith, 
that the sun has chemical rays of different kinds pro- 
ducing different effects. They hold that the different rays 
are as many as a thousand in number. Without being 
hypercritical in regard to this, the only point which should 
be inferred is that the sun has different rays producing 
different effects. The moon too has different kinds of 
rars numbering twenty-one. That the other planets 
have similar influences has been explained in the previous 
pages. That the sun's rays have a great deal to do with 
tlw creation, preservation, and destruction of all life in the 
world is un admitted fact. As the rays produced are not 
the same all through the day, but are constantly changing, 
and as these constantly differing influences are imbibed by 
the things of this earth, it is evident that men born at 
different times of the day and imbibing different influences 
exhibit differences iu their nature and constitution. 


+3. It is said that one strong reason for the genera 
belief in astrology is that from our very cradle we are 
taught to believe iu it. We accept this, but do not see that 
it proves the falsehood of astrology. A widespread belief in 
astrology, handed down from generation to generation, affords 
a very strong presumption indeed in favour of the science, 
for it. is more probable that one man or one generation 
was deceived than that thousands of men and thousands of 


144 


generations were deceived. But itmay be said that one 
wise man is better than ten fools, and that one critical and 
thoughtful age is better than thousands of unthinking and 
ignorant ones. The question is, can any one who is really 
acquainted with the intellectual labours of the ancients say 
that all of them put together, or the ages which produced 
them, are inferior to men of this generation? | Have we 
really acquainted ourselves with what the ancients have 
accomplished in their search for truth in all departments 
of Nature, and does a fair comparison of their knowledge 
and our present knowledge prove to us their undeniable 
inferiority. Untal it is shown.beyond dispute that our 
age is, all in all, superior to the times of the ancients, 
we shall rather believe in what so many have believed than 
condemn what we do not understand. Herbert Spencer— 
the first name in the list of modern philosophers—says that 
the universal belief of mankind in a certain matter is rather 
a proof that that belief is well grounded than that such a 
large number of men gifted with brains like ourselves have 
fallen a victim to a delusion. The presumption, I submit, 
in such cases, is, primé facie, that a widespread, long- -held 
belief is so held on account of its truth. 


50. That astrologers dread sceptics is true with regard 
to a certain class of astrologers, but not so with all. It 
must be remembered that, along with the decline of our 
ancient knowledge, astrology has also gone down. It is 
no wonder that such a difficult branch of knowledge as 
astrology has fallen into the hands of men who can bring 
upon it nothing but discredit: but the wonder is that, in 
spite of these odds, astrology still contains visible germs 
of truth, and these can be shown to all who choose to 
see them. Therefore, if ignorant astrologers shrink from 
sceptics or abuse them, that fact should not lead any 
fair-minded man to infer that all astrologers are of this 
type. The quotations made from V arahamihira do not show 
any tendency in that great man to elevate iris own profes- 
sion unduly, they only show that these will be the con- 
sequences of not having astrologers—provided astrology 
is true. It is as rational and charitable to argue abont 
astrology in general from the modern specimens of 
astrologers as to judge of our medical system from our 
common quacks, or the fine art attainments of our ancestors 
from their modern representatives, or the worth of the 


REMARKS ON THE RAJA's PAMPHLET. 145 


philosophy of Bhagavat Geeta from the worth of modern 
logicians and students of philosophy. Because the school- 
men disgraced logic, is logic to be condemned ? 


There is no need to multiply instances. We have only to 
say that a noble science may fall into disrepute by its 
being taken up by ignoble men, aud that from the latter no 
inference should be drawn as to the former. 


53. The loose reasoning of the graduates is here attacked: 
but it would have been well indeed if the graduates’ doubts 
and their data had been given more accurately. They 
waver not simply because they kuow that tides are caused 
by the moon, but because they have found predictions true 
which prevent them from calliug astrology false. They waver 
not because there are incontrovertible proofs as to the false- 
hood of astrology, which they have not brains enough to 
understand, but because, like men who know both sides of 
a difficult problem, who feel the difficulty of a decision, they 
abstain from jumping to aconclusion. There are graduates 
who would fain believe astrology to be false, but for the 
fact that they themselves have been surprised to see its 
predictions come true, and they do not know how to explain 
it. Further, it is not merely the moon affecting the tides which 
makes the graduates waver, but other facts too, such as the 
fact that certain diseases of human beings are observed to 
wax aud wane at periods corresponding to the position of 
the moon. Is this a fact or not? We have observed not 
afew cases of human diseases increasing or decreasing 
with the moon. If our observation is incorrect, wo 
shall be glad to be corrected. As we have said elsewhere, 
we are ready to afford proofs as to the truth of astrology 
enough to rouse aud justify the most varuest enquiry into 
it of the best intellects. We are not in a position to afford 
for astrology any but a purely empirical proof. Hut if even 
a single case, or fuir the matter of tlmt a good number of 
cases turn out true, according to the principles laid down by 
our ancestors, and if we cannot account far it by the logic of 
chance,—for let the best logician, or the most audacious 
guesser undertake the same business and give us eyually 
good resnlts—dves it not stand to reason that we ought to 
study it closely before passing a verdiet ? And will Sir 
T. Madhava Rao say thathe has made such a study? For 
aught we know, his arguments are all drawn from Western 
science aud logic, aud as from that puiut of view ho cannot 


446 


understand how it could be trne, he condemns itas false, very 
much jike a man who haa not seen or heard of a steam engine, 
denying the possibility of any such thing. Let SirT. Madhava 
Rao or any unbeliever in astrology show us his record of 
instances of astrological predictions, either as given ont by 
others, or as examined by himself, and let him show us that 
the results are decidedly against astrology, then.we shall 
gladly throw our belief or convictions to the winds and 
‘go over to bis side; or let Sir T. Madhava‘Rao from thi 
moment give us a fair trial, and we shall record prediction 
systematically, and see how they fare. Will the Rajah agre 
to this? Let him put us under the most stringent test an 
conditions, and give us a fair hearing. Will he take u 
the gauntlet 


68. e Rajah goes on next to account under six heads for 
those cases which succeed without any planetary . st 
they ate-— 


i. Alternative cases in which the one-or the other as 
be trne. 


2. Where they are shrewd guesses.’ 


3. When the prediction is made in vague and ambiguous 
language. 


4. Where they contribute to their fulfilment.- 


5. Where they succeed by the adoption of measures 
recommended to them by the astrologers in concert with 
the priest. 


6. Justification of the events after their occurrence which 
are taken for predictions. 


I shall not argue lengthily about this apparently well- 
analysed explanation of astrology, bnt shall merely give one 
instance which I request the Rajah to bring under any 
of his six-fold classifications. It is a case which can 
admit of little doubt, for it can be very easily verified. 
Recently I was, with some gentlemen of this Presi- 
dency, engaged in a conversation upon astrology and 
upon the Rajah's criticism thereof, and one of those 
present made the following statement which I quote from 
memory: “In my eighth year, when I was making Adhya- 
num, my mother took me with my horoscope to consult 
a certain Iyengar astrologer in my village. When ‘wa 
went to the astrologer’s hoase, which was a roofed ‘one, and 


147 


the astrologer looked into my horoscope, he asked my 
mother to send me out, and she did so. I went out, 
but knowing that the astrologer had something to say 
about me, aud being curions, concealed myself at the 
end of the pial of the house near a wiudow on the other 
side of which was the astrologer. The astrologer said to my 
mother, 'your son will attain a position equal to that of a 
king ina place which is northward to this. He will become 
one of the most famous of men. He will become highly 
learned in the State language. Why don'tyou put him to 
school and make him learn English ? Why are you killing 
him in Adhyanum V To which my mother said, 'I have 
no means to educate him.' The astrologer said ' Beg 
or do anything and educate him in English. He is 
destined to become famous, but I don't know if you will 
live to enjoy his fame and fortune fully, and I don't want 
to tell all this to the boy's face, lest he might get conceited.’ 
My mother then came out, and I got down from the pial, 
and ran away lest she should punish me for overhearing." 
All turned out as predicted. The motive iu this prediction 
could not have been money, for what could the poor mother 
of a poor boy give for a prediction which, so far as she was 
concerned, could only have excited a momentary thrill of 
joy to be succeeded the next moment by all the stern 
difficulties of her actual condition of life at the time. To 
all appearance nothing could be more unlikely than the 
event prophesied. Does this not show that the astrologer 
must have depended on rules laid down by astrologers iu 
reference to the horoscope he was examining, and if his 
prediction has been realized, can we account even for a 
single case like this by chance, and can we say that those 
great ancient writers wrete stupendous works of pure human 
invention merely in order to deceive the iguorant ? I should 
like to know what the Rajah says to this. 


69. The Raja says (p. 41) that he is quite unable to 
imagine how the planets can influence human _ beings 
separately. As to this it has been said that we mean to give 
only empirical proofs of astrology. Our ancients must 
surely have known the way in which the planets affect us, 
though the study of the same has been given up too long 
since to enable us to answer the question. But we do not. on 
that account feel bound to give up our case. What better 
proof can there be of the truth of a science than that its 


148 

Statemieuta aod priociples, when applied to practice, are 
found té hold good in a safficiently large oomber of cases, 
which inevitably suggests the idea that the failare in the 
Temsinivg cases ia rather doe to our ‘errora io calculation 
or our want of sufficient examination of the horoscope, than 
to’ the falaeh ood of the acience. 

72, The examples referred to on p. 41, of absolutely 
contradictory indications, muet be taken from incorrect 
horoscopes, for uch ceases, according to the science of astro- 
logy, .eught uever to occor. ‘I shall be happy to examiue 
euch horoscopes if they are sent to me. 

- 73. “It does not follow that astrology is false, becanse 
astrologera do not agres io their predictiona. it depends 
whet '‘sortof astrologers are coneolied. If they are the best 
they will-agrea, bol.if-they are of very ordivary merit, 
they 'minet' differ according to the several degrees of their 
koowled re; grenting that ‘they are honest in their predic- 
tidne.. Bot because doctors differ, ia theacience of medicine 
foles ¢: Complete ignorance or perfect knowledge ia bound 
to‘agres with regard to the questions coming before it. 
Bat half-koowledge gives ties to difference of opinion, and 
will bave to be improved until we are able to place our cou- 
tlavion# epen a eoond besia, bot meanwhile, to condemo a 
caase (m1 ‘scoonntof the weakness of men who uphold it, is 
a Very ‘objectionable argument, and would put an end 
to honest ‘enqoiry' and investigation in any branch of 
knowledge in which ‘it ia sccepted. 

, 2%, Since rales are givenin the previous pages { L 
We request the Rajah to teat them in a bowdred ceen care- 
faliy sad eend os hia record. 

77. “With regard to the determination of the sex, rules 
are given. We request a fair trial. 

82. It ia necessary to anawer only the Intter part of this 
pars. There it ia eaid that astrology is believed in 
mostly by women who are ignorant; belief iv it declines as 
education advances. This is only partially true; for an 
age of phyeicet screoce aod materialietic philosophy cannot 
bat ba sceptical aa to the bare possibility of the truth of 
aattologp—although we eau show that it hee had the 
_—T of the greatest intellecta of our conntry. Has the 
aceptical philosophy of to-day been able to solve the mya- 
teriea of the aniverae? Has % ahown to on beyond the 


REMARKS ON THE RAJA’8 PAMPHLET. 149 


shadow of doubt that we are naught but mere clay, and 
there is nothing but the atom which has an eternal existence ? 
If materialism and evolution have given us a satisfactory 
explanation of the universe, then it will be time to reject 
our ancient works and among them those on astrology. 
It must be borne iu mind that astrology, if true, will take 
us deeper into the solution of the problems of life and will 
lead us to higher truths. It is therefore premature to con- 
clude that the materialism of the day will last for ever, or 
that it will not give place to more difficnlt--it may be— 
but to more rational and satisfactory explanations of the 
universe. It is but right to expect that, as Englishmen 
have advanced from complete barbarism to their present 
civilisation, and as ages of labour have given them such won- 
derful control over the material part of our universe, even so 
will further advancement lead them to the discovery of the 
laws of mind and gradually give them an insight into the 
spiritual causes at work in our world. Then will astrology 
be hailed as a link iu the chain of causation. 


83-84. The evil effects of astrology are here dwelt 
upon, we can only say that there are good effects too. But 
the question is whether astrology is true, and if it is true, its 
effects, both good and bad, should be borne in mind. 


85. What is said in this para., according to which all 
astrologers arc swindlers, applies to ignorant, selfish and 
dishonest astrologers, and not to astrologers as they ought 
to be, or as they would be under more favourable condi- 
tions. 

88. It is wrong to say that Europe as a whole has reject- 
ed astrology. We may refer to the vastly circulated and well 
known Almanac called Zulktel’s Almanac. If one por- 
tion of Europe has rejected, another portion believes in it 
with no less strength and reasou. Spiritualism is distinctly 
gaining ground in Europe, and we have every reason to 
hope that with it astrology will gain ground. 


Conclusion. 

We have only to say in conclusion that what stands in 
the way of an honest and patient investigation into the truth 
or otherwise of astrology—which we submit it has yet to 
receive—is not so much the inherent weakness of the science 
or even want of opportunity to study it, but the general, if not 
universal, scepticism which is the fashionable creed of the 


day and from which even the most courageous are too timid to 
depart. :iltis a well-established, fact that all current creeds 
demand an allegiance,not to give whichis enough to make any 
man ridiculous in the estimation o£thosa whose good-will and ; 
favourable: opinion he is desirous of: deserving.. What is 
vaunted as.the courage of one's conviction is very often 
nothing::more than supporting in grandiloquent language. 
the views of the greatestimen: of the day without perhaps 
really understanding them-. It is the destroying and nnthink-, 
ing scepticism which stalks through the land:bare-faced and 
which is-worshipped as the only rational creed, which ac- 
counts for the hesitation or unwillingness on the part of our 
educated men to honestly investigate the question with the 

We sincerely trust that better times ara 
dawning. upon this ancient but, unfortunate land, and that 
our ancestors will be recognised some day, in the far-off 
fature at least--as. not having been: altogether as foolish, 
selfish; deceitful as our. Rajah supposes them to have 
been. I conclude in the rove of the Rafah himself, more 
fittingly than I can in my own. Be a 


iI hope that the reader will duly appreciate my motives 

and my sincerity, and that he will divest himself of all 
prejudices and make an honest and careful search after the, 
Trath. And may he reach it!’ . , 


