A 


HISTORICAL VIEW 


OF THE 


HINDU ASTRONOMY, 


FROM 
THE EARLIEST DAWN OF THAT SCIENCE IN INDIA, 


TO THE PRESENT TIME. 


IN TWO PARTS. 
\ 


PART I. 
THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY. 


PART I. 
THE MODERN ASTRONOMY, 


WITH AN EXPLANATION OF THE APPARENT CAUSE OF ITS INTRODUCTION, 
AND THE VARIOUS IMPOSITIOQNS THAT FOLLOWED. 
re weree 


TO WHICH ARE ADDED, 
I.—HINDUv TABLES OF EQUATIONS. 
If. — REMARKS ON THE CHINESE ASTRONOMY. 


Tt. ~~ TRANSLATIONS OF CERTAIN HIEROGLYPHICS, CALLED THE ZODIACS 
or DENDERA. 


BY JOHN BENTLEY, 


MEMBER OF THE ASIATIC SOCIETY. 


LONDON: 
SMITH, ELDER, & CO. 65, CORNHILL. 
MDCCCXXV. 


Digitized by Google 


f@QIIS YLu77 ‘7 


220 


nad Equi 


oe 


Z, 


Oe le 
etre 


| 


Digitized by Google 


“PREFACE. 


Tue subject of the present essay was undertaken 
many years ago; but owing to a variety of causes, 
which could not be foreseen, its publication has 
been delayed much beyond ‘the ‘time that was ori- 
ginally intended. The-first was, that I found it 
difficult to obtain any cdrréct information respecting 
the ancient astronomy of the Hindus, by reason of 
all the ancient works having been purposely de- 
stroyed or concealed, since the introduction of the 
systems now in use. I was therefore induced, by 
way of saving time, to lay before the Asiatic Society 
in A.D. 1799, a paper “ On the antiquity of the 
Surya Siddhanta, and the formation of the Astrono- _ 
mica] Cycles therein contained,” intending to follow 

it up with the present essay, as soon as the neces- 
sary facts and data that I was in search of could be 
obtained. My paper on the antiquity of the Surya 
Siddhanta was published in the sixth volume of the 
‘Asiatic Researches; and I was in great hopes that 


Digitized by Google 


“iv PREFACE. 


it would open the eyes of the learned and scientific 
in Europe, in respect of the real state of the Hindu 
astronomy, and dispel those prejudices which, from 
a want of a due knowledge of the subject, have arisen 
in favour of its supposed extraordinary antiquity. 
In this hope I have not been disappointed ; for some 
of the first astronomers and scientific men of the 
age have concurred in the conclusions there drawn 
respecting the age of the work. The age of that 
work, however, had nothing to do with the real an- 
tiquity of the Hindu astronomy, which was intended 
to be the subject of the present essay, and would 
have been long ago published in the Asiatic Re- 
searches, had it not been for circumstances, some of 
which I shall now explain, that totally prevented it. 
It would appear, that shortly after the publication 
of the sixth volume of the Asiatic Researches, the 
harmony of the Society, and the zeal of its members 
in promoting the object of the institution, were 
nearly extinguished, by means of certain attacks 
made on the labours of some of the members, in a 
periodical work called the Edinburgh Review, ap- 
parently with a view of putting down all further 
researches into antiquity, and the investigation of 
truth. The consequence was, as might have been 
easily foreseen—a general apathy and disgust 
amongst the members, who naturally said to them- 
selves, ‘‘ If these sneers and scoffs are to be our 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. v 


thanks, it is unnecessary that we should labour in 
the field any longer: it is better by far that we 
should refrain from our labour, than involve our- 
selves in perpetual disputes with persons concealed, 
who may be both capable and willing to do us an 
injury, without our being able to ascertain whence 
it came.” . 

A more fatal blow could not be aimed by the 
greatest enemy to the institution than had been 
thus inflicted on it: for, setting aside the general 
apathy, it would ultimately, by its effects, not only 
be productive of the greatest evils to the welfare of 
the Society, but destructive to the intention of its 
original founder, which was thus perverted; so that, 
instead of the institution being ‘‘ for enquiring into 
the history and antiquities, the arts, sciences, and 
literature of Asia,” as expressed by the title-page 
of their work, it became of a direct opposite nature. 
Surely, it ought to have been foreseen, that such 
a mode of proceeding would ultimately tend to the 
loss of the Society, and perhaps to its final disso- 
lution. The attack made on any member must 
obviously be intended to diminish the value of the 
writings or essays of the member so attacked ; con- 
' sequently it must have the same effect, if it has any 
at all, in reducing the value of the volume of the 
Researches. The injury is intended for the indi- 
vidual, but it falls only on the Society; for the in- 


Digitized by Google 


Se eee a 


vi PREFACE. 


dividual, becoming disgusted with the treatment he 
receives at the hands of secret enemies, is obliged 
to reserve the publication of the result of his labours 
for some future time, when more liberal sentiments 
may prevail. In consequence of the attack made 
on my essay on the antiquity of the Surya Siddhanta, 
I wrote another paper in the eighth volume of the 
Asiatic Researches; pointing out the complete igno- 
rance of the reviewer, and his ill nature in making 
an attack, where in fact there was not the most 
distant foundation for it. I there showed by a table 
the gradual decrease of the errors in the Surya 
Siddhanta, from the year 3102 before Christ, down 
to A.D. 999, and also for two periods later, in order 
to show the increase of the errors again in an op- 
posite direction; thereby showing, that the point 
at which the errors were the least possible was_ 
between seven and eight hundred years back at 
the time. This table is so plain, that a schoolboy 
totally unacquainted with astronomy can under- 
stand it; but, plain and simple as it is, the reviewer, 
to show his knowledge of astronomy, I suppose, as 
well as his ill will, has thought fit to attack it by 
such sophistry and ignorance as, I believe, never 
before came from the pen of a reviewer; and am 
rather surprised that it could be at all admitted 
into the Review, which certainly did it no good, as 
casting a reflection on the abilities of those who 


Digitized by Google 


ar 


PREFACE. Vil 


conducted. it. But, in order that others may be 
able to judge of the truth or falsehood of the. as- 
sertions of the reviewer, I shall here give the three 
first columns of the table, which are all that are 
here wanting to exhibit the decrease in the errors. 


THE TABLE. 
B.C. 3102. A.D. 499. A. D. 999. 

52’ 34” — 0° 20° 14” oe Vv Wu 
25 — | 4 52 53 — | 1 21 59 — 
31 + 3 66 6+ 112 1 + 

46 — 8 33 41 — | 0 29 22 + 

42 + 2 32 42 + 113 S+ 

0 + 1 30 650 + 0 21 55 + 

36 — 1 48 56 — 0 24 20 + 

43 + 250 9+ 0 $ 33 — 

+ 0 5 45 + 0 33 45 — 


Sun’s apogee, 3 15 53 


There is no man, I believe, in his senses, who, 
‘on inspection of this table, will not say, that the 
author of the work must have lived at that period 
of time when the errors were least, instead of that 
period when they were greatest; but our reviewer 
would wish his readers to believe the contrary; and 
that the author of the Surya Siddhanta, instead of 
living about the year A.D. 1000, when the error in 
the moon’s’ place was only about 1’, lived 3102 
before Christ, when the error amounted to near 6°: 
from which circumstance, it will naturally be con- 
cluded by many, that he must. either be mad, or 
entirely ignorant of the nature of astronomy, which: 
science could admit of no such conclusion; because, 

a 


Digitized by Google 


viii ; PREFACE. 


from the quantity of the error in the moon’s place 
3102 before Christ, it was impossible that the com- 
putations by the Surya Siddhanta, could give, or 
foretel the eclipses of the sun and moon, which 
clearly: shows the absurdity of the reviewer's no- 
tions. Lest, however, it might be supposed that 
I am not speaking the truth, I will here tran- 
scribe his own words, which I think will point out 
still more his sophistry, ignorance, and ill will. 

‘¢ Let us next consider the criterion which Mr. 
Bentley himself proposes for determining the age 
of a system of astronomical tables, from the con- 
sideration of the tables themselves, independently 
of testimony, tradition, or any external evidence. 
Such a criterion is precisely the thing wanted on 
the present occasion: but we can by no means 
approve of that particular one which he endeavours 
to establish. It is founded on this maxim, that the 
time of the construction of any set of tables must 
be that at which they agree best with the heavens. 
Hence, when such tables are given, and we*wish to 
determine their antiquity, we have only to compute 
from them the places of the sun and moon, &c. 
for different times, considerably distant from one 
another: to compare these places with those given 
by the best modern tables; and the time when they 
approach the nearest to one another is to be taken 
for the time when the tables were constructed.” 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. ix 


The reviewer then goes on with his sophistry, to 
endeavour to set aside this rule, thus: —< As it 
must be an object, in all astronomical tables, to 
represent the state of the heavens tolerably near 
the truth at the time when they are composed, it 
must be allowed that this rule is not destitute of 
plausibility. On examination, however, it will be 
found very fallacious, and such as might lead into 
great mistakes.” The reviewer then proceeds to 
show his extraordinary skill and sagacity, by saying, 
that ‘‘ Astronomical tables are liable to errors of two 
different kinds, that may sometimes be in the same, 
sometimes in opposite directions. One of them con- 
cerns the radical places at the epoch from which the 
motions are counted, the other concerns the mean 
motions themselves, that is to say, the. mean rate, 
or angular velocity of the planet. Of these the first 
remains fixed, and its effect at all times is the same: 
the second again is variable, and its effect increases 
proportionally to the: time. If, therefore, they are 
opposite, the one in excess and the other in defect, 
they must partly destroy one another; and the one, 
increasing continually, will at length become equal 
to the other, when there will of consequence be no 
error at all; after which the error will fall on the 
opposite side, and will increase continually. Here 
the moment of no error, or that when the tables are 
perfectly correct, is evidently distant from the time 


Digitized by Google 


x PREFACE. 


of the construction of the tables, and may be very 
long either before or_after that period. Suppose, 
for example, that in constructing tables of the sun’s 
motion, we are to set off from the beginning of the 
present century, and that we. make the sun’s place 
for the beginning of the year 1801 more advanced 
by half a degree than it was in reality. Suppose 
also that the mean motion set down in our tables is 
erroneous, in a way opposite to the former, and is 
less than the truth by 1" in a year. The place of 
the sun then, as assigned from tables for every year 
subsequent to 1800, will, from the first of the above 
causes, be half a degree too far advanced, and, from 
the second, it will be too little advanced, by as 
many seconds as there are years: when the number 
of years become as great as that of the seconds in 
30’, that is, when it is equal to 1800, the two errors 
will destroy one another, and the tables will give 
the place of the sun perfectly exact. Were we, 
therefore, to ascertain the age of the tables by 
Mr. Bentley’s rule, we should commit an error of 
1800 years; from which we may judge of the 
credit due to that rule, as a guide in chronological 
researches.” 

Here the reviewer's plausible sophistry may be 
clearly seen through. He assumes an error in the 
sun’s place at the epoch of the tables of 30’, and an 
error in the mean motion of 1” per year. All this, 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. xi 


we see, is upon one side, and a mere assumption. 
Have I not the same right to assume a similar error 
in one of the planets, that is, an error of 30’, in its 
radical position, and an error of 1" per annum in its 
motion, so that in 1800 years the error of 30’ would 
be cancelled? Now if this error so assumed be of 
an opposite nature to the one he assumed, the one 
cancels the other, and the epoch of the tables would 
not be at all affected by the circumstance: his con- 
clusion, therefore, in regard to my rule is incorrect; 
for I do not determine the age of any system of 
astronomy by a single item, as he thought proper 
to assume on this occasion, to give the greater . 
plausibility to his assertions; I make use of as 
many as appear to be the most correct, because 
the errors counteract each other. Why did he not 
apply the rule to some tables, the age of which was 
known to him, the same as I have done in respect 
of the system of Aryabhatta, in the third section of 
the second part of my essay, the author of which 
gives his own date? .I have also applied the same 
rule to the Brahma Siddhanta, the first of the mo- 
dern astronomical works introduced in A.D. 538, 
to which the reader may refer, and where he will 
find the method by which the system was con- 
structed explained at length. The application of 
the rule, in both these instances, when we had the 
actual dates of the system before us, demonstrate 
that it is perfectly just, so far at least as we require 


Digitized by Google 


Xil PREFACE. 


it. I shall, however, for the sake of exposing the 
fallacy of such arguments, apply the rule to the 
determination of the age of certain well known 
modern tables, which I hope will put this cavilling 
at rest, or expose the author of them to the censure 
he deserves. 

A set of astronomical tables being put into my 
hands, to determine their antiquity, I accordingly 
compared them with the third edition of La Lande’s, 
which is supposed to be correct, and find the errors 
gradually diminishing from the Christian era down 
to about the year A.D. 1744, as in the following 


TABLE, 


A.D.0 | A.D. 1000] A. D. 1500 | A. D. 1700 | “cen, when Years Se- 


Planets, &c. 


0° 1’ 26” 0° 0’ 19°77} 0° 0’ 11” 
013 11 0 159 
0 0 53 007 
0 0 68 0 058 
0 0651 0 051 
2 18 2? 0 20 59 0 5 20 
6 59 27 017 | 1 042 0 12 54 
049 2 20 42 | 0 6 32 0 0 53 
012 31 481 |0 0381 {|-0 1 5 
49 0 8/2050 8 |645 8 17 8 
0 0 0 00 ;0 00 000 
0 0 30 030 |0 030 0 0 30 
oo 0 00/0 0 0 000 
5 46 15 29°35 {| 0 51 16 0 11 55 
2 23 17 5349 10 4 5 |+0 15 49 
2 32 14 0 20 29 0 2 55 
11 27 6 119 80 {+0 1 23 
417 53 0117 0 
9 52 35 + 540 1 
047 7 0 8 22 0 


Sum of the years in the two last columns, .....000.000% 


The same divided hy the number of items, the mcan results are 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE, . xi 


To make my meaning better understood, I have 
selected into the last column all those years that 
agree near to each other, and the result from thence 
comes out 1744, the age of the astronomical tables : 
but to show how far the errors in the years in the 
other column would affect this result, I have cast 
them up as they stand, and they give then 1701 
years. The notion of the reviewer is here shown 
in the item of 1948, at the beginning of the 
column under A, in order to show his error; for 
that item is balanced by others on the contrary 
side: — but is not the idea of using an erroneous 
result, when we have so many others to choose 
from, truly ridiculous? Surely the astronomer must 
be at liberty to employ those results he finds most 
correct, and not those that appear erroneous. The 
reviewer's ideas in this respect are totally unscien- 
tific, and rest upon nothing but sophistry, misrepre- 
sentation, and deception. 

No result can be drawn when the motions are the 
same by both tables, as in the moon’s apogee and 
node, the node of Venus, Mars and his aphelion ; 
for the errors neither increase nor diminish. The 
tables here given as an example to the rule, are 
those of La Lande, first or second edition; but 
the title-page and date are wanting. The reason 
why the mean result makes the tables older than 
the epoch, which I believe was 1770, is, that the 


Digitized by Google 


xiv PREFACE. 


observations on which they are founded are anterior 
to it. None of the Hindu artificial systems are 
ancient: they are all since A.D. 538, the year in 
which the modern astronomy commenced, and not 
at the beginning of the Kali Yuga, as imagined by 
Bailly or others; for they had no astronomy then, 
as I have fully proved in the Essay, where I have 
brought forward all the astronomical facts and ob- 
servations that could be collected relative to their 
ancient astronomy, showing that it did not go 
further back than about 1425 before Christ, which 
was only the dawn of astronomy in India. . 
The réviewer must be greatly mistaken, if he 
imagines that the motions of the planets in Hindu 
"artificial systems, were drawn from two actual ob- 
servations, as in the European methods, and “ that 
their merit, and their claim to antiquity, was de- 
cided” — “« by the accuracy of the mean motions, as 
contained in the tables.” Now the assertion thus 
boldly made is not correct ; for the Hindu artificial 
systems, and tables drawn from them, which give 
the motions alluded to, are not constructed on the 
European principle. The European method re- 
quires that the motions be determined by two actual 
observations at least, and at a considerable distance 
of time: the Hindu, in artificial systems, requires 
no such thing; he makes use of but one observation; 
which ‘is in the time of the observer: the other he 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. XV 


assumes; that is to say, he assumes that the planets | 
were in a line of mean conjunction at the beginning 
of the Kali Yuga, and from thence draws the motion 
that would give the position of the planet in his 
own time, agreeing with his observation. To make 
this matter plain, I will give an example. 

Suppose that in A.D. 939, at the end of the year 
4040 of the Kali Yuga, there were two astronomers 
making observations on the planet Venus at the same 
place, one being a European, the other a Hindu, and 
that they both found the place of the planet in the 
Hindu sphere to be then 2° 19° 55’ 12”. The Hindu 
astronomer says to the European: ‘‘ We must now 
find the mean annual. motion that will give this 
position; and observes, that at the beginning of the 
Kali Yuga, the planets were all in a line of mean 
conjunction in the beginning of the Hindu sphere; 
consequently, that the mean annual motion of Venus, 
multiplied by 4040, the years then elapsed, must 
give the position, and therefore the mean motion 
must be=7* 15° 11’ 52’8; for if this quantity be 
multiplied by 4040, it will produce 2° 19° 55’ 12”.” 
The European astronomer observes: ‘‘We have agreed 
in the actual position of Venus at the end of the year 
4040 of the Kali Y; uga, because it depends on actual 
observation made now by both of us; but the as- 
sumption that the planets were in a line of mean 
conjunction in the beginning of the Kali Yuga, I 
cannot admit to be true: for by our tables, which I 

b 


Digitized by Google 


Xvi PREFACE. 


take to be perfectly correct, Venus was not in the 
position assumed by you, for ber longitude then, | 
was | 2° 43' 46"6; consequently the mean annual 
motion must be less than what you make it, and by 
my calculation comes out exactly 7* 15° 11' 23635, 
which, if multiplied by 4040 years, 

we shall have ; : 117° 11 25°4 
Add position of Venus at the epoch, 1 2 43 466 
We get her mean longitude now, =2 19 55 12” 

The Hindu astronomer replies: ‘‘ Yes, Master 
European, your mode may be true; for we have no 
means of detecting its errors, since we had no ob- 
servations at the beginning of the Kali Yuga: we 
ean only say, that you take more trouble by adding 
the supposed position of Venus at the epoch than 
we do. We manage it otherwise, as. you see, by 
simply taking the mean motion such, that it gives 
us the position manent any addition or subtraction, 
which Iabour we save.’ 

The European astronomer says: ‘“‘ You certainly 
save both labour and time; but still I do not ap- 
prove of your method, because it is incorrect: for 
though it gives the same longitude to the planet as 
mine does for this moment of time, yet it will not 
continue to do so for any length of time. -For 
instance, next year there will be a difference be- 
tween us of 29°165, and it will for ever after con- 
tinue to increase at that rate yearly. But this is not 
all: our great astronomers, who may live between 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. xvii 


eight and nine hundred years hence, will be de- 
ceived by the annual motions which you thus de- 
duce, some being greater, and others less than we 
give them, thereby, according to physical ideas, 
indicating great antiquity; so that your time will 
be thrown back between two and three thousand 
years.” The Hindu astronomer replies: “‘ I am 
very glad to hear it; I did not mean deception; but 
since you will have it so, take it. I did not think the 
European astronomers to be such fools as to be de- 
ceived by our manner of deriving the mean motions.” 
Thus I have endeavoured to show, in a familiar 
way, the Hindu method of deriving the mean an- 
nual motions, which being totally different from the 
European, renders the method of Bailly and others, 
of ascertaining the supposed antiquity of astronomi- 
cal tables from the quantity of the mean motions, as 
totally inapplicable. But it may be done, if we 
apply the principle upon which they have been 
derived ; otherwise not. Thus, suppose we have the 
mean annual motion of Venus as above given= 7° 15° 
tl’ 52’8, to find what year this motion corresponds 
to, that is, the year in which it would give the mean 
longitude of Venus corresponding to observation, the 
mean motion of Venus, according to Europeans, in the 
Hindu sphere, would be as above= 7* 15° 11’ 23°635 
Which taken from the former, 715 11 528 
Leaves a remainder of : . 29 165 


Digitized by Google 


Xvi PREFACE. 


The position at the epoch of the Kak Yuga, ac- 
cording to Europeans=1' 2° 43’ 46"6; divide the 
latter by the former, and we have yee aes 4040, 
the year from the epoch when it gives the position 
of Venus agreeing with observation. 

The reviewer says: ‘“ The antiquity of it (the 
Surya Siddhanta), has been conceived ‘to be very 
great, as it is reckoned the most ancient’ astrono- 
mical treatise of the Hindus; ‘but, according to 
Mr. Bentley, that antiquity extends to no more 
remote period than the year 1068 of our era. The 
main argument on which this determination is 
founded, seems to us subject to considerable diffi- 
culty. It supposes what is by no means certain, 
that the Hindu astronomers deduced the mean mo- 
tions of the planets from a comparison of a real ob- 
servation with one that was purely fictitious. This 
is no where proved by Mr. Bentley, though taken 
as the basis of all his computations.” The asser- 
tion of the reviewer inthis instance is positively 
untrue; for I have shown, from the data given in 
the Surya Siddhanta itself, that all the mean motions 
and positions of the planets given by that work are 
expressly deduced from the assumption of the 
planets being all in a line of mean conjunction in 
the beginning of the Hindu sphere, at midnight, at 
the beginning of the Kali Yuga, and on the meridian 
of Lanka. These data are all derived from the work 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. xix 


itself: and what will show it to be assumed, and 
not a real.epoch of observation, is, that the vernal 
equinoctial point, or the beginning of Aries’in the 
tropical sphere, was then assumed to be also in the 
same point with the planets, which we know could 
not have been the case; for the sun’s mean longi- 
tude in the European sphere at that moment was 
10° 1° 1’ 1", and therefore 60 days short of the time : 
yet, notwithstanding all this apparent absurdity, it 
is the epoch from which not only the motions of the 
planets are reckoned and drawn, but also the pre- 
cession of the equinoxes. It is really ridiculous to 
see a man like the reviewer, who seems to know 
nothing whatever of the Hindu astronomy, talk on a 
subject he is unacquainted with, and pretend, with 
the utmost gravity, that the Hindus, like all other 
people, must have two or more observations made 
at a distance, from whence they drew the motions 
of the planets. They might have hundreds or thou- 
sands of observations in ancient times at a distance 
from each other, and draw the mean motions from 
thence for other books, but not-for the artificial 
systems now in use, nor the Surya Siddhanta, which 
is entirely on an artificial plan: and all those that 
are on an artificial plan have been introduced since 
A.D. 538, for the purpose of imposition, in order that 
their history and astronomy should be considered by 
the ignorant as excessively ancient; in which impo- 


Digitized by Google 


. 


xx PREFACE. 


sition they have certainly but too well succeeded. 
The example I have above given respecting Venus, 
shows how the motions are deduced, the position in 
the astronomer’s time being known from observa- 
tion: and it also shows, from the motion alone, how 
to determine the time to which it refers. They are 
the same as are given by the Surya Siddhanta. 

The Hindus have many astronomical books not 
on the artificial plan: they are, however, all modern, 
and do not fall within the scope of my observations, 
as they are hardly worth noticing. It is to the ex- 
posure of the impositions introduced by the artificial 
systems, that my whole attention has been al 
pally directed. 

Is it not most strange that Mr. Bailly, or any 
other person pretending to a knowledge of astro- 
nomy, should place the age of a work at that period 
of time when its rules made an error in the moon’s 
place of near 6°, in the moon’s apogee upwards of 30°, 
and in the moon’s node near 24°? How was it pos- 
sible for eclipses to be calculated by the rules of 
that book, when the moon, at the actual time of an 
eclipse, would be 6° distant from the sun by the 
rules? And how was it possible for it to point out 
the precession of the equinoxes, when it erred 60 
days in the time? The tables of TJrivalor and 
Chrishnaborum are from the Surya Siddhanta, and of 
course contained these errors in them for the be- 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. Xx 


ginning of the Kali Yuga; but Mr. Bailly having 
imagined that the mean motions were drawn ac- 
cording to the European method, which has been 
repeatedly shown was not the case, he fell into the 
mistake. 

How is it possible that a man, pretending to a 
knowledge of the principles of astronomy, should 
or could give in to such errors? The eclipses of the 
sun and moon are the most material evidence for 
* determining the date of astronomical tables, whether 
the motions be drawn on an artificial plan or not: 
it is by them that the astronomer proves the truth 
of his tables, and his own abilities; and it is by 
the time, quantity, and other circumstances of an 
eclipse, that he is enabled to see and correct, from 
time to time, the errors that may be concealed in 
his tables or rules, before he makes them known. 
Why did not the reviewer determine the age of the 
Surya Siddhanta by this criterion, if he did not like 
the rule we proposed, in respect of the position and 
motion of the planets? It may be that he thought 
the labour of calculating eclipses, and comparing | 
them with those deduced from correct European 
tables, too great, and, moreover, that it would prove 
too much, viz. that the Surya Siddhanta was not 
composed 3100 years before the Christian era. 

‘The reviewer, not satisfied with what he says in 
the tenth volume of the Edinburgh Review, on the 
subject of my reply to his strictures on my first 


Digitized by Google 


XXxil PREFACE. 


paper, accuses me of attacking the opinions of Bailly . 
and others, thus: —‘‘ Mr. Bentley having with great 
courage brought forward his own peculiar views, in 
opposition to the authority of such celebrated names 
~as those of Bailly, Le Gentel, Playfair, and Sir 
William Jones, it certainly did not occur to us that 
we could be guilty of any very unpardonable pre- 
sumption, in venturing to doubt whether his specu- 
lations were in all respects conclusive. Mr. Bentley, 
however, has thought fit to resent our scepticism 
with a good deal of philosophical warmth, and with 
unmerciful severity accuses us of both attachment 
to system, and of relinquishing that system.” 
. The reviewer, not only here, but in every other 
instance, endeavours to cloke his attack, and sup- 
port his arguments under the authority of such 
names as Bailly and others, because I differed from 
them in opinion. I could not help feeling warm at 
- @ wanton and insidious attack being made on me for 
explaining the nature ,gf the astronomical system 
contained in the Surya Siddhanta, and the formation 
of the numbers and revolutions it contained, which 
clearly pointed out that Bailly was completely mis- 
taken in the ideas he had adopted. This was the 
crime for. which I was attacked; and I was the more 
vexed at it, because it appeared to be done with a 
view to put down all such investigations for the 
future, and I was actually so told. So then, if a 
great man is to commit a mistake, we are not at _ 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. Xxili 


liberty to point it out; it must remain so for ever, at 
least the reviewer would so insinuate; but I am of 
a very different opinion: the greater the man, the 
more necessary it is to point out his errors, and the 
foundation of them, that others may not fall into the 
same. It was for this reason that I pointed out the 
cause why the motions given in the Surya Siddhanta, 
though a modern work, must of necessity differ from 
the European, in consequence of the position as- 
sumed at the beginning of the Kali Yuga being: 
0° 0° 0' 0". The example I have given above in 
respect of Venus, explains this circumstance suffi- 
ciently clear; so that it is not necessary to insist 
more on it here. Mr. Playfair, who supported Mr. 
Bailly with his calculations, was then living: did 
he consider that I made an attack on him, because I 
explained the cause of the errors, by which all his 
calculations became of no use? Most certainly not: 
though he was wrongfully stated by some as the 
author of the review, in of@er to throw the odium 
upon him, and take it from the real person. I sent 
Mr. Playfair a copy of my paper on the antiquity of 
the Surya Siddhanta, to open his eyes as to the foun- 
dation of Mr. Bailly’s mistake: and after the review 
on.it came out, it being industriously fathered on 
Mr. Playfair, I directed enquiry to be made at 
Edinburgh through some of Mr. Playfair’s most in- 
timate friends, to ascertain from himself if he was 
the author of the review. The reply was, what I 
c 


Digitized by Google 


Xxiv PREFACE. 


would have expected from a man of candour and 
science, that he was not the author of the review, and 
that he could not, consistently with his character, 
be the author of any such nonsense. What further 
information he afforded, need not now be noticed. 

: Having thus far ascertained that Mr. Playfair was 
not the author of the review in question, nor of those 
that followed on the same topic, I was anxious to 
know the opinions of others on the subject: for 
though I was perfectly satisfied I was right in the 
conclusions I drew, yet to have the ideas of others, 
whose skill and knowledge in astronomy could not 
be doubted, would be highly gratifying. I therefore 
collected together various astronomical facts, par- 
ticularly those above alluded to respecting the 
moon’s place, &c. at the beginning of the Kali Yuga, 
in order to show the error, not only of Mr. Bailly, 
but of the reviewer, who imagined, that by using his 
ame he could do wonders. These facts I forwarded 
to a friend in London, desiring him to show them to | 
the Astronomer Royal, the late Rev. Dr. Maskelyne, 
and to get his opinion thereon; which he accordingly 
did, and transmitted me Dr. Maskelyne’s answer, in 
a letter under date the 12th April, 1811, which I 
shall now take the liberty to introduce. He says: 
«IT showed your astronomical letter to Dr. Maske- 
lyne; indeed I left it with him several weeks: he 
feturned it to me at his own table, at dinner, with 
the following observations : — 


Digitized by Google 


(PREFACE. XXV 


'  ¥ think Bentley right: he has proved by his 
calculations that there were no real obseryations 
made at the beginning of the Kali Yuga. Bailly 
_was a pleasing historical writer; but he had more 
imagination than judgment, and I know that he was 
condemned by his friends La Lande and La Place, 
as a superficial astronomer, and a very indifferent cat- 
culator. These two gentlemen entertained the same 
opinion with myself, with respect to the antiquity of 

Hindu astronomy; and I think Mr. Bentley has 
made out satisfactorily the real antiquity of the 
Surya Siddhanta.” 

It is well known that Dr. Maskelyne was an 
-astronomer of the first-rate abilities, and of the 
‘utmost integrity. Here he gives his opinion free 
from any prejudice. He does not condescend to 
notice the reviewer, whom, for his sophistry, he 
considers as beneath his observations, 

‘ Delambre, one of the greatest modern astrono- 
mers, has also taken up the subject in his Ancient 
Astronomy; and though he notices the reviewer, he 
.treats his notions with contempt, by deciding at 
once against the pretended antiquity of the Surya 
Siddhanta. So far, therefore, I thought it right, and 
in justice to myself, to exhibit the opinions of far 
superior authorities to an obscure pretender, who 
dares not to come forth with his own name, knowing, 
_ that what he asserts is not true, and that the whole 
. of his object is deception, sophistry, and the misre- 


Digitized by Google 


XXVi PREFACE. 


presentation of facts. He has complained, that I 
have attacked him with severity: but whose fault is 
that? Why has he meddled with me? and that, too, 
under the- mask of concealment, under the name of 
reviewer, by which he thought to stab me in the 
dark, to destroy my labours, and to do me every 
possible injury, without my knowing to what hand 
I had been indebted for such unprovoked and unex- 
pected usage? Can it be supposed that I would 
tamely submit to be thus treated, without speaking 
my mind, and exposing the malice and ill will of 
the individual who could shamefully, and in spite of 
truth, act in this manner? What serves to mark his 
malice and ill will, is his attempt to magnify ima- 
ginary defects in my method, while at the same 
time he endeavours to uphold the method of Bailly, 
which of all others was the most imperfect. For the 
quantities of the motions of the planets were totally 
inapplicable, from their not being derived in the Eu- 
ropean manner, on which he reckoned. And though 
the greatest equations of the planets were not liable 
to the same objection, yet they were too ill deter- 
mined in Hindu books to answer the purpose. Not 
satisfied with this marked ill will, he crowns it by 
accusing me of having attacked Sir W. Jones, Mr. 
Playfair, and others, thinking thereby, no doubt, as 
he found his sophistry and misrepresentations not 
sufficient to answer his views, that their friends 
would join him in raising a hue and cry against me. 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. XXvii 


In this, however, he has been disappointed. I cer- 
tainly attacked no one; but I explained the nature 
and principles of the modern Hindu system of astro- 
nomy, showing that it was entirely contrary to the 
view that had been taken of it: so that I think I 
have fairly and clearly proved, that the sophistry 
and misrepresentations of the reviewer are founded 
in malice. 

By his attempt to uphold the antiquity of Hindu 
books against absolute facts, he thereby supports all 
those horrid abuses and impositions found in them, 
under the pretended sanction of antiquity, viz. the 
burning of widows, the destroying of infants, and 
even the immolation of men. Nay, his aim goes 
still deeper; for by the same means he endeavours 
to overturn the Mosaic account, and sap the very 
foundation of our religion: for if we are to believe 
in the antiquity of Hindu books, as he would wish us, 
then the Mosaic account is all a fable, or a fiction. 

When our just endeavours to do all the good in 
our power, to stem the torrent of imposition, and 
to lay the same open to full view, are opposed by 
secret means, or by persons in concealment coun- 
_teracting our intentions, we cannot help feeling a 
regret that such things should exist: that they do 
exist, however, is certain, and has been fully proved 
by the preceding pages; and were I so disposed, I 
could exhibit a great deal more. ‘However, for the 
present, I must draw a. veil over them, and proceed 


Digitized by Google 


XXVili PREFACE. 


to what may be deemed of more importance; that 
is, some account of the present Essay. 

This work, as I noticed in the beginning of the 
preface, I began many years ago, in hopes that by 
, giving a clear and concise historical view of the 
Hindu astronomy, from the earliest period of time 
in which the science was known, it would contri- 
bute greatly to the dispelling of that mist of igno- 
‘rance under which it had lain so long. In con- 
‘formity, therefore, with this plan, I begin the first 
section with the earliest observations known or no- 
ticed in Hindu books, which will clearly show that 
the Hindus had no astronomy, at least that'we or 
-themselves know of, anterior to the year 1425 B.C. | 
when it is supposed the Lunar Mansions were 
‘formed, and the first observations made. 

About the year 1181] B.C. they with great in- 
genuity formed the months, and gave them names, 
derived from the Lunar Mansions in the manner 
explained in the first section, which puts a stop to 
the imaginary antiquity of all Hindu books and 
systems that mention the names of the months, let 
their pretensions be whatever they may. 

In the second section, I give the epoch of Rama, 
deduced from the positions of the planets .at his 
‘birth, which is confirmed by the eclipse of the sun, 
‘and other circumstances, at the churning of the 
‘ocean, or war between the gods and the giants; as 
also the eclipse of. the .sun,. and. positions -of the 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. XXIX 


planets, at the time. his father wished him to join 
in the government; so that there is not a point in 
history determined with more certainty and preci- 
sion than the celebrated epoch of Rama, which 
may be of some importance to those who make the 
Hindu history their study, as it will enable them to 
correct and settle other points by the number of 
reigns, either before or after Rama, with more cer- 
tainty than they otherwise could do. I have also 
noticed the observations then made in respect of 
the length of the year, the precession of the equi- 
noxes derived from the lunisolar period then dis- 
covered, which was the foundation of the changes 
made in the commencements of the year from time 
to time. The war between the gods and the giants 
I have given at full length, in order to show the 
time to which it referred, and followed it up in the 
third section by a description of the war between 
the gods and the giants in the west, with all the 
circumstances I could find relating to it, for the 
better determining the time; which seems to be of 
importance for establishing with more certainty the 
epoch of the formation of the constellations, the Ar- 
gonautic expedition, as it is called, and the time of 
Hesiod, who gives a description of the war, which 
eould not, therefore, have been written till the 
close of it, which I have placed in the year 746 B.C. 

In the fourth section, I have given the epoch of 
Yudhishthira, Parasara, and Garga, which is a very 


Digitized by Google 


XXX PREFACE. 


material point in Hindu history. I have explained 
the nature of the term, the Rishis in Maghd, as in- 
troduced by the astronomers of that period; which 
term the moderns have entirely perverted, to 
answer their own impositions. I have also ex- 
plained some other passages of Parasara and Garga, 
relative to the positions of the colures, which like- 
wise have been perverted in modern times. 

In the fifth section, I have given the four periods 
into which the Hindu history was divided in ancient 
times, that is, as early as the year 204 before Christ, 
when this division seems to have been first invented. 
It is very remarkable, that by this arrangement, the 
creation took place at the very year of the Mosaical 
flood, by which it appears they had then no know- 
ledge whatever of any history anterior to that cir- 
cumstance. It serves, however, I think, as a proof 
of the year of the deluge being correctly given, as 
the Hindus must have preserved it by tradition as 
the year of the creation, which was very natural. 

In the sixth section, I have given the nine :pa- 
triarchal periods, called Manwantaras. These ap- 
pear to have been invented in the first or ‘second 
century of the Christian era, with a view, I believe, 
of correcting the error in respect of the creation, as 
given by the four ages. For the first of these pa- 
triarchal periods goes back to the year 4225 B.C: 
which is called the creation. By the former divi- 
sion, the creation took place at, or near the vernal 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. XXXi 


equinox: by the latter, on the 25th of October, at 
the autumnal equinox. But though the latter al- 
tered the time of the creation, it was only for man; 
for the animals they stated to have been created at 
@ much later period. 

In the Modern Astronomy, first section, I have 
given a full view of the introduction of the modern 
systems, by which the creation has been thrown 
back into antiquity several millions of years. I 
‘have shown, by operations at length, how the 
epoch of the modern Kali Yuga was settled, and 
the method by which the planetary motions, posi- 
tions, &c. were adapted to the system of Brahma, 
to answer the purpose in view. These systems have 
been the origin of a great part of the modern impo- 
sitions, which would be too long to deseribe here. 

' In the second section, I have given the system 
called Varaha, as given in the Surya Siddhanta, &c. 
and shown the object of it was to support the former 
system in imposition. Its date I have shown by 
computation, and explained the ingenious contri- 
vance of the author for calculating with ease the 
precession of the equinoxes, &c. 

In the third section, I have given the system of 
Aryabhatta, together with that of Pardsara, which 
was framed by him for the purpose of imposition, 
the nature of which I have fully explained. The 
date is given by Aryabhatta himself, which is also 
corroborated by computation made from his system. 

d 


Digitized by Google 


XXXli PREFACE. 


I have also noticed his geometry, &c. which appears 
to have been the same, nearly, with what is given in 
the Lilavati by Bhaskara, who wrote a commentary 
on Aryabhatta’s work, which probably was the 
foundation or origin of the Lilavati, with a few more 
modern improvements added. 

In the fourth section, I have noticed Varaha Mi- 
hira, and computed his time from the heliacal rising 
of Canopus, as given by himself, in his Samhita, 
which was when the sun was 7° short of Virgo, or 
23° of Leo; which computation makes his time the 
same as given by himself in the Jatakarnava, in which 
he gives the positions of the aphelia of the planets 
for the year Saca 1450, or A.D. 1528, which, there- 
fore, makes him contemporary nearly with the em- 
peror Akber. He was one of those who endeavoured 
to assist in the modern impositions; for he attempted 
to pervert the meaning of the epoch of Yudhisht/hira, 
which was the year 2526 of the modern Kali Yuga, 
by saying, that the meaning was, that he lived that 
number of years before Saca. He also supported, 
for the ‘same purpose, the idle notion first introduced 
by Aryabhatta, about the motions of the Rishis 
being one lunar Mansion in one hundred years —a 
thing in itself too absurd to be noticed by an astro- 
nomer, unless for the purpose of imposition. 

Thus, from the above date, 2526, he makes the 
Rishis to be in Magha in the year of Kali bats 653 
Lalla, who follows him, gives . . : 614 


Digitized by Google 


PREFACE. XXxiii 


Muniswara gives : e & 600 
Aryabhatta, the first apomoe ; . 668 
System of Parasara by Aryabhatta, ‘ 666 


And upon one or other of these fictitious eras of 

Yudhishthira, the modern histories of Cashmere, 

and other parts of India, are now erected, and given 

_ to the world as true: the whole of which, however, 
is shown to be false, from the positions of the planets 
in the time of Garga, 548'B.C.; the epoch of Rama, 
961 B.C.; the epoch of the formation of the months, 
&c. &c. which overthrow the whole imposition. 

In the fifth section, I have shown the cause of 
Varaha Mihira and Bhaskara Acharya being thrown 
back into antiquity, to have arisen from a trick 
played on Akber. I have shown the various means 

_that were adopted to support the imposition, by 
interpolations and forgeries of every description ; 
which system of forgeries and impositions has -con- 
tinued down to the present day unabated, nay, 

_Yather with many new additions and improvements. 

In the sixth section, I have been obliged to come 
forward in my own defence, against an extraordinary 
mode that has been adopted by Mr. Colebrooke, for 
opposing my computation on the antiquity of the 
Surya Siddhanta, and for throwing back into anti- 
quity Varaha Mihira, and all others who state the 
solstices to be in the beginning of Cancer and Capri- 

corn. The first he endeavours to effect by means of 
the tables of Lunar Mansions, imagining thereby that 


Digitized by Google 


XXXIV PREFACE. 


the book must be as old as the time to which the 
positions of the stars refer. But this is not the 
case: the tables are found in books of all ages, and 
are inserted in them merely as tables of reference, 
having no connection whatever with the age of the 
book in which they are inserted, as fully proved by 
the books themselves. The second he endeavours 
to effect, by giving the names Aries, Taurus, Ge- 
mini, &c. to the signs or divisions of the Hindu 
sphere, beginning from the lunar asterism Aswini, 
which is completely proved by all Hindu books ex- 
tant, as well as by a translation of his own from 
Bhattotpala, to be not only erroneous, but incon- 
sistent with the Hindu astronomy, which assigns 
these names to the signs of the ecliptic, beginning 
from the vernal equinoctial point, and to no other 
signs whatever. 

As nothing more seems to me to be necessary to- 
wards understanding what I have written on the 
Hindu astronomy, I shall now close this preface, 
with recommending and consigning my labours in 
the investigation of truth, to the friendly protection, 
care, and attention of all liberal and unprejudiced 
men of science, as this will in all probability be the 
last effort I shall make: and I fear that there are 
but few inclined to follow it up, as they would re- 
ceive no thanks for their pains, but, on the contrary, 
opposition and ill will, the only rewards which } 
have met with for my labours 


Digitized by Google 


TABLE OF CONTENTS. 


PART I. 


SECTION I. 


The early part of the Hindu astronomy involved in great obscurity — 
The Lunar Mansions the most ancient part of the Hindu astronomy 
—The time they were formed determined from astronomical data 
— Second epoch in the Hindu astronomy — Many improvements 
made—The solar months formed, and named on astronomical 
principles — Tropical Lunar Mansions introduced —The seasons 
of the year marked, and fixed to the tropical revolutions of the 
sun — All explained by a plate, and the time demonstrated — 
Birth of the goddess Durga, or the year, with the month Aswina, 2 


SECTION II. 

Rama — Time of his birth determined from astronomical data — Date 
of the Ramayana determined—Churning of the Ocean, or War 
between the Gods and the Giants, description of it —Time of it 
determined from astronomical and other data— Birth of Saturn — 
The month Kartika made the commencement of the year —The 
rate of precession determined — A lunisolar period discovered, on 
which were founded the changes to take place in the commence- 
ment of the year — A table of eight periods of the same, and the 
year of their respective commencement, &C. ...seeccecesscvece 14 


SECTION III. 

The War between the Gods and the Giants in the West, described by 
Hesicd in his Theogony —- The time of it determined from various 
data — Its duration ten years and five months — The zodiacal con- 
stellations and others then formed — The original idea of some of 
them appears to have been derived from the Hindus — The tropi- 
cal signs named after the zodiacal constellations —The months 
named after the tropical signs with which they then coincided — 
Their names compared — Homer and Hesiod not so ancient as 
generally snpposed—The year represented by the ancients under 
a great variety of names and personifications, as Mercury, Hermes, 
Anubis, Buddha, &c. ......cceenesccercccseerccsccsatccsseess 36 


SECTION Iv. 

Commencement of the third astronomical period -—The precession 
then— The term Rishis in Magha explained — Parasara and 
Garga cited — The heliacal rising of Canopus in the time of 
Parasara-—— The same computed — Positions of the planets when 
Garga wrote — The time deduced — The real epoch of Yudish- 
thira, 2526 of the Kali Yuga, perverted by the moderns — The 
fourth astronomical perlod, .......cceccccccasccvessenrscesses Gt 


Page 


Digitized by Google 


TABLE OF CONTENTS. 


SECTION V. 
Page 


Commencement of the fifth astronomical period — Astronomy further 
improved — More accurate tables formed, and equations introduced 
— The Hindu history divided into four periods, and the commence- 
ment of each settled astronomically — Tables of the four ages, and 
their respective years of commencement, with the errors in the 
tables then used —Commencement of the sixth astronomical 
period — Christianity preached in India by St. Thomas — The 
Hindu history divided into new periods, called Manwantaras, and, 
like the former, settled on astronomical principles — Table of the 
periods, with the errors in the tables used — These occasion no 
derangement in the Hindu history ; only they carry back the 
creation. to the year 4225 B.C. 25th October, at the autumnal 
equinox — The seventh astronomical period commences, the end of 
which terminates the ancient astronomy of the Hindus, A. D. 588 74 


PART II. 


SECTION I. 

Commencement of the eighth astronomical period, the beginning of the 
modern astronomy — The Brahmins introduce new and enormous 
periods into their history — The means adopted on the occasion — 
The new periods explained — Fixed by astronomical computa- 
tions, the nature of which is explained at length — The revolutions 
of the planets determined, and adjusted to the system of years so 
introduced — Method of determining the antiquity of the system, 
supposing the same unknown— The same by a table of errors 
continually decreasing down to the epoch — The positions of the 
stars given in the Hindu tables explained with a diagram — Table 
of the Lunar Asterisms — The names of the signs Aries, Taurus, 
&c. introduced from the West, and still used to represent the 
signs as beginning from the vernal equinoctial point—Some of 
the impositions of modern commentators and others noticed — 
The system intended as a blow against the Christians — The Avatars 
invented for, the same purpose — Krishna the Avatar noticed — 
His nativity computed from the positions of the planets at his birth, 83 


SECTION II. 

System of Varaha — Framed in the ninth century — The object of it 
' — Works in which it is given — Observation on Canopus referring 
to A. D. 928 — Revolutions of the planets, &c. in the system — 
Years elapsed to the beginning of the Kali Yuga — Formation of 
the system, with remarks — Compared with the system of Brahma 

— Age of the system determined — Lunar Asterisms — The places 

of some stars not agreeing with the names of the mansions — The 
cause explained, and shown in a table — Precession of the equi- 
noxes — The method employed artificial, by assuming the motion 

in an epicycle — Explained by a diagram — The terms libration or 


’ Digitized by Google 


é 


TABLE OF CONTENTS. 


Page 
oscillation inconsistent with the author’s meaning, which is further 
explained by the commentator, & . &C....cecccresescsescvccecs 115 


SECTION III. 

The Arya Siddhanta, by Aryabhatta — Its date A.D. 1322— The 
object of it— The system it contains — Its formation— Precession 
of the equinoxes— Mode of computing it— The Rishis —The 
object of introducing them, and the manner of computing their 
place —-The Parasara Siddhanta, and the object of the author in 
exhibiting it — The system of the Pardsara Siddhanta — The com- 
patation of the Rishis by this system — Age of the Arya Siddhanta, 
confirmed by computation from astronomical data— Age of the 
system of Parasara determined — Found to be of the same age 
with that of Aryabhatta— Latitudes and longitudes of the stars — 
Geometry of Aryabhatta same as Bhaskara’s— His rules for show- 
ing the proportion of the diameter of a circle to its circumference, 
&e. &e.. 


oo beceeceesaccece Pee reece cer acescaneseereeeces veeee 138 


SECTION IV. 

*Varaha Mihira, like Aryabhatta, endeavours to support the new order 
of things — Perverts the meaning of a passage relating to the epoch 
of Yudishthira, whom he places 2448 before Christ— Varaha 
Mihira mentions the Surya Siddhanta and Aryabhatta — States the 
heliacal rising of Canopus at Ujein, when the sun was 7° short of 
Virgo — Gives the positions of the aphelia of the planets in the 
Jétakarnava for the year 1450 Saca, or A. D. 1528 — The heliacal 
rising of Canopus at Ujein computed for that year, the result 
agrees with that which Varaha stated, being 7° short of Virgo — 
The point of heliacal rising of Canopus at Ujein, in the Hiuda 
Sphere, SHOWN, ..sccccrecccccccccccvecsvsccscevesscccovecee 15T 


SECTION V, 

The cause of Varaha Mihira being thrown back into antiquity by the 
moderns explained — The reason of two Varaha Mihiras and two 
Bhaskaras explained by the imposition on Akber— Bhaskara 
thrown back to A. D. 1150 — A number of forgeries to support the 
imposition — Spurious Arya Siddhanta—Two Bhasvatis — Pre- 
tended ancient commentaries — Interpolations — The Pancha Sidd- 
hantika — False. positions of the colures — Artificial rules for the 
cosmical rising of Canopus by the Bhasvati— By the Pancha 
Siddhantiki —By Kesava—By the Graha Laghava — The time to 
which they refer appears to be about the middle of last century — 
The heliacal rising of Canopus by the Brahma Vaivarta, and 
Bhavisya Puranas, when the sun was 3° short of Virgo— A view 
of the impositions arising from spurious books — Laksmidasa, a 
commentator on the Siddhanta Siromani, pretended to be a grand- 
son of Kesava, and to have written in A. D. 1500 — Determines 
the cosmical rising of Canopus at Benares for that year — The 
spurious Arya Siddhanta examined, and shewn to be a modern 
forgery — The system it contains, how framed — Gives the propor- 
tion of the diameter of a circle to its circumference the same as 
Bhaskara — Quotes the Brahma Siddhanta, Brahma Gupta, and the 


Digitized by Google 


TABLE OF CONTENTS. 


Page 
Surya Siddhanta — The Pulisa Siddhanta, another forgery, noticed 
—Forgeries of books innumerable— The Brahma Siddhanta 
Sphuta, another forgery —The object of the forgery — The spu- 
rious Brahma Siddhanta quotes the spurious Arya Siddhanta, Pulisa 
Siddhanta, and Varaha Mihira, thereby proving it to be a forgery, 
and, perhaps, by the same individual — Quotation made from it te 
show the same — Mistake about the positions of the colures, and 
the meaning of the terms Aries, Taurus, &c. — Interpolations — 
Vishnu Chandra, &...-ssecccccccccecsccctcccccccesececcsces 164 


SECTION VI. 

Self-defence the object of this section — The notions of Mr. Colebrooke 
respecting the positions of the stars at the general epoch, as indi- 
cating the age of the works in which they are found, inconsistent 
with real facts, being given in books of all ages— Mr. Colebrooke’s 
notions respecting the names Aries, Taurus, &c. being applied to 
the signs of the Hindu sphere, incorrect — Proved to belong ex- 
clusively to the signs of the tropical sphere, by tables and passages 
in modern Hindu books — Passage from Brahma Gupta to the same 
effect — Passage from Varaha Mihira to the same effect — Another 
from the Fatwachintamani, containing a computation of the sun’s 
place reckoned both from Aswini and Aries, to the same effect — 
A translation of a passage in Bhattotpala’s commentary to the 
same effect — The translation by Mr. Colebrooke himself, but not 
published or noticed by him— Nor the other facts stated — Mr. 

’ Calebrooke notices the heliacal rising of Canopus at Ujein, when 
the sun was 7° short of Virgo, mentioned by Varaha Mihire, but 
does not tell us the time to which it refers — Notices other risings, 
but without reference to time — Mistaken with respeet to the time 
of rising of Canopus in the time of Parasara—A passage from 
Garga explained — Three periods of Canopus’s heliacal rising — 
The 8th and 15th of Aswina, and 8th of Kartika, mistranlsated 
by Mr. Colebrooke — The true meaning given — The time to which 
they refer explained in a note, .............. oes eccenes secoee 196 


APPENDIX, 


I,—Hindu Tables of Equations, &c. for calculating the true Helio- 
eentric and Geocentric Places of the Planets, &c. .....eeeee00 217 
1I.—Remarks on the Chinese Astronomy, proving, from their Lunar 
Mansions, that the Science is much more modern among them 
than is generally believed. The names of their Constellations 
are added, with the Stars in each. .............- eorecescacee B31 


III.—Translations ef certain Heiroglyphics, which hitherto have been 
called (though erroneously) the Zodiacs of Dendera in Egypt... 249 


Digitized by Google 


PART I. 


THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


OF 


THE HINDUS. 


SECTION I. 
FROM 1425 TO 961 B.C. 


The early part of the Hindu Astronomy involved in great obscurity —The Lunar 
Mansions the most ancient part of the Hindu Astronomy — The time they were 
formed determined from Astronomical Data— Second epoch in the Hindu 
Astronomy — Many improvements made— The Solar Months formed, and 
named, on Astronomical principles — Tropical Lunar Mansions iniroduced— 
The Seasons of the Year marked, and fixed to the Tropical Revolutions of the 
Sun— AU explained by a Plate, and the time demonstrated — Birth of the 
Goddess Durgs, or the year, with the month Aswina. 

THE early part of Astronomy among the Hindus, 
like that of all other nations, is involved in great 
obscurity. We can find no certain trace who the 
persons were that first began the science, nor the 
means employed by them for effecting their grand 
purpose ; we are therefore obliged to pass over these 
as objects unattainable, and begin from the earliest 
known facts that offer themselves to our attention or 
investigation. 

The most ancient part of the Hindu Astronomy, 
without doubt, is the formation of the Lunar Man- 
sions; for, without a division of the heavens of some 
sort, or some fixed points to refer to, no observa- 
tions on the positions of the Colures, or heavenly 

. B # 


Digitized by Google 


2 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


bodies, could be recorded with any degree of accu- 
racy. History, and the poets, are perfectly silent 
as to the names of the first Astronomers, or the king 
in whose reign the science first began. All that we 
are informed is, that in the first part (quarter) of 
the 7reta Yuga, the daughters of Daksha were born, 
and that of these he gave twenty-seven to the Moon 
—that is to say, laying aside all allegory and poetic 
language, the twenty-seven Lunar Asterisms were 
formed in the first part of the Zreta Yuga. The 
Treta Yuga began in the year 1528 B.C: and lasted 
about 627 years, the fourth part of which is 1563 
years; therefore the Lunar Asterisms must have 
been formed between the years 1528 and 1371 B.C. 
which might be considéred as sufficiently near the 
truth. But as we have other means to approximate 
still nearer, it is proper we should notice them here. 
It appears, that at the time of forming the Lunar 
Mansions, one of them, ‘‘ Visakha,”. received its 
name from the equinoxial Colure cutting it in the 
middle, and thereby bisecting it, or dividing it into 
two equal sections, or branches; whence the name 
Visakha. The observation here alluded to is men- 
tioned in the Veda, and other books, and by which 
the positions of the Colures were as follows :— 
The vernal equinoxial point was in the beginning 
of Kritika. 
The summer solstice in 10° of Asdesha. 
The autumnal equinox in the middle of Radha, 
thence called Visakhda. 
And the winter solstice in 3° 20' of Dhanisht'ha.— 
See Plate I. 
Now, in order to ascertain the time when this ob- 
servation was made, we must find the precession 
from the position of some of the fixed stars at the 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 3 


time. Thus the longitude of Cor Leonis in the 
Lunar Mansion Magha is always 9°. The vernal 
equinoxial point was found by the observation to be 
in the beginning of Kritika ; and from the beginning 
of K7ritika to the beginning of Magha is seven Lunar 
Mansions of 13° 20’ each, 


and therefore equal to : ; : 93° 20' 
Add longitude of Cor Leonis in Magha 9 0 
Their sum is the longitude of Cor Leonis 

from Aries. : ; ; 102 20 
Longitude of Cor Leonis in A.D. 1750, was 146 21 
Difference is the precession . : . 44 1 


or, the quantity by which the equinoxes fell back in 
respect of the fixed stars since the time of the ob- 
servation. Now to find the number of years cor- 
responding to this precession, it must be observed, 
that as we go back into antiquity, the rate of pre- 
cession diminishes about 2", 27 for every century. 
If we assume that the observation was made 1450 
B.C. then 14£9+1150-1600; from which subtracting 
1450, we get A.D. 150 for the middle point. Now 
in the first century of the Christian era, the preces- 
sion was 1° 23’ 6" 4, to which if we add 2”, 27, we 
get 1° 23’ 8" 67 for the mean precession; that is to 
say, the precession that corresponds to the second 
century of the Christian era, in which the middle 
point is found. Therefore, as 1° 23’ 8" 65 is to 100 
years, so 44° 1’ to 3176 years, from which subtract- 
ing 1750, we get 1426 B.C. for the time of the 
observation, and the formation of the Lunar Man- 
sions, which sufficiently corroborates what is stated 
in the Kalika Purana. 

If this, however, should not be deemed sufficient 
for determining the time of the formation of the 
Lunar Mansions, we have other observations to men- 


Digitized by Google 


4 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


tion that will be found to be still more accurate, as 
they can be depended on to the very year; and 
these are of the planets. From the union of the 
daughters of Daksha with the Moon, the ancient 
Astronomers feigned the birth of four of the planets; 
that is to say, Mercury from Rohini; hence he is 
called Rohineya, after his mother. Magha brought 
forth the beautiful planet Venus; hence one of the 
names of that planet is Maghibhu. The Lunar 
Mansion Ashad'ha brought forth the martial planet 
Mars, who was thence called Ashad'habhava; and 
Purvaphalguni brought forth Jupiter, the largest of — 
all the planets, and the tutor of the gods: hence he 
is called Purvaphalgunibhava ; the Moon, the father, 
being present at the birth of each. The observa- 
tions here alluded to are supposed to have been 
occultations of the planets by the Moon, in the 
respective Lunar Mansions from which they are 
named*: they refer us to the year 1424-5 B.C. and 
therefore corroborating the result of the observation 
on the Colures. See Plate I. 
The planet Mercury and the Moon in Rohini, 17th 
April, 1424 B.C.; 
The planet Jupiter and the Moon in P. Phalguni, 
23d April, 1424; 
The planet Mars and the Moon in P. Ashad'ha, 19th 
August, 1424; 
The planet Venus and the Moon in Magha, 19th 
August, 1425; 
all within the space of about sixteen months: and 


* They are supposed to be occultations, because they are not made in the time of 
a single revolution of the Moon, bat take in the space of about sixteen months, from 
19th August, 1425, to the 19th April, 1424, B.C.; and this idea of the observa- 
tions being confined to occultations is supported by Satarn not being incladed, be- 
cause that planet was then out of the Moon’s course. 


Digitized by Google 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 5 


there is no other year, either before that period or 
since, in which they were so placed or- situated. 
Saturn is not mentioned among these births, proba- 
bly from his being situated out of the Moon’s course; 
but was feigned to have been born afterwards from 
the shadow of the Earth, at the time of churning the 
ocean, or the war between the gods and the giants, 
which will be noticed in its proper place. 

It appears, that at first the number of Lunar 
Mansions was twenty-eight of 12° 51’ 3-7ths each; 
but that number being found probably inconvenient 
in practice, on account of the fraction, they were 
reduced to twenty-seven of 13°20’ each. The first 
Lunar Asterism in the division of twenty-eight was 
called Mula; that is to say, the root, or origin. In 
the division of twenty-seven, the first Lunar Aste- 
* rism was called Jyesht'ha ; that is to say, the eldest, 
or first, and consequently of the same import as the 
former. They both began from the same fixed point 
in the heavens, which was reckoned 2° 25’, or there- 
abouts, short of Antares. 

The following are the Lunar Asterisms in their 
order, as exhibited in Plate I. 


' DIVISION OF 28 MANSIONS. DIVISION oF 27 MANSIONS. 
1 Mula, 15 Myigasiras, 1 Jyesht'ha, 15 Miigasiras, 
2 P. Ashidhi, 16 Ardra, - 2 Niriti, 16 Ardra, - 
5 U.Ashidhd, 17 Punarvasu, -| 3 P. Ashidhé, 17 Punarvasu, 
4 Abhijit,* 18 Pushya, 4 U.Ashadha, 18 Pushgi, 

5 Sravana, 19 Aélesha, 5 Sravand, 19 Aslesha, 
6 Dhanishtha, 20 Maghi, 6 Dhanishtha, 20 Magha, 
7 Satabhishé, 21 ‘P. Phalguni, 7 Satubhisha, 21 P. Phalgusi, 
8 P. Bhidrapadé, 22 U. Phalguxi, 8 P. Bhadrapadé, 22 U. Phalguni, 
9 U.Bhadrapadi, 23 Hasta, 9 U. Bhadrapada, 23 Hasta, 
10 Revati, 24 Chitra, 10 Revafi, 24 Chitra, 
11 Aswini, 25 Swati, 11 Aswint, 25 Swati, 
12 Bharani, 26 Radhu, 12 Bharani, 26 Radha, 
13 Kyitika, 27 Anuradha, 13 K7itika, 27 Anuradha. 
14 Rohini, _ 28 Indra. 14 Rohini, 


* Abhijit, in the division of 28, is thrown out in the division of 27. 


Digitized by Google 


6 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


The next observations we meet with on record, 
bring us down to the winter solstice in the year 1181 
B.C. when the sun and moon were in conjunction, 
and the Hindu Astronomers found that the Colures 
had fallen back 3° 20’ from their positions at the first 
observation: that is to say, the summer solstice was 
found in the middle of the Lunar Asterism Aslesha ; 
the autumnal equinox in 3’ 20" of Visakha ; the winter 
solstice in the beginning of Sravisht'ha ; and the vernal 
equinox in 10° of Bharani.—See Plate II. 

At this epoch, the Hindu Astronomy began to 
assume a more regular form—many improvements 
were made—the solar months were formed, and re- 
ceived their names—another set of Lunar Mansions . 
was introduced, depending on the tropical revolution 
of the sun, corresponding in name and number with 
those of the zodiac, or fixed stars, and the six seasons 
of the year established on unalterable principles ; 
which, with the months, depended also on the tropical 
revolution of the sun : — all of which are explained by 
the Plate, which shows their positions, as they then 
stood in respect of the fixed stars. 

The outer circle contains the zodiacal Lunar Aste- 
rism, beginning with Sravisht'hz, as the first in the 
arrangement at that period, and numbered from | to 
27. The next, the tropical Lunar Mansions, or those 
depending on the sun’s revolutions in the tropics, 
coinciding with the astral ones at the time, and also 
numbered from I to 27. 

The next circle contains the twelve months of the 
year in their order, beginning with Magha, at the 
winter solstice. Next to these are the six seasons of 
the year, of two months each, and the first of which, 
Sisira, begins at the winter solstice. The innermost 
circle of all represents the Serpent, which is the 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 7 


poetic emblem of both the year and the ecliptic. 
The head and tail meet at the winter solstice; and its 
middle corresponds with the middle of Aslesha, which, 
in the tropical Lunar Mansions, was always the middle 
of the year, so long as it continued to be reckoned as 
commencing at the winter solstice. The following 
are the names of the Lunar Asterisms in their order, 
as numerically expressed in Plate II. 


1 Sravishe’ha, 10 M¥igasiras, 19 Chitra, 

2 Satabhisha, 11 Ardra, 20 Swati, 

3 Purva Bhadrapada, 12 Punarvasn, 21 Visakha, 

4 Uttara Bkadrupada, | 13 Pushya, 5 22 Anuradha, 

5 Revati, : 14 Adlesha, 23 Jyesh'ha, 

6 Aswini, 15 Maghé, , 24 Niriti, 

7 Bharani, 16 P. Phalguni, 25 P. Ashadha, 
8 Kritika, 17 ‘U. Phalguni, 26 U. Ashad'ha, 
9 Rokini, 18 Hasta, 27 Sravand. 


The names of the moveable or tropical Lunar 
Mansions, always beginning from the winter solstice, 
are the same with the fixed or Astral Mansions; and 
therefore may sometimes cause an ambiguity, to be 
explained only by the nature of the subject. Thus 
when it is said, that the summer solstice is a/ways in 
the middle of Aslesha, we know immediately that the 
tropical or moveable Aslesha is meant; just in the 
same manner as, if it was said that the summer sol- 
stice is always in the beginning of Cancer, we should 
know that the sign Cancer was meant, and not the 
constellation Cancer; because the solstices and Colures 
do not remain always in the same points with respect 
to the fixed stars. 

It now remains to be explained, the principle on 
which the months were formed and named, and the 
time to which they refer. I have already observed, 
that the Lunar Mansions were fabled by the Hindu 
poets to have been married to the Moon, and that the 
first offspring of that poetic union were four of the 


Digitized by Google 


8 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


planets. In like manner, the Hindu poets feign, that 
the twelve months sprung from the same union, each 
month deriving its name, in the form of a patronymic, 
from the Lunar Mansions in which the Moon was 
supposed to be full at the time. 

Let us therefore, in the case before us, apply this 
principle. At the above epoch, 1181 B.C. the sun 
and moon were in conjunction at the winter solstice ; 
and as the month began when the sun entered the 
signs, the first month therefore began at the winter 
solstice. Now to find the name of that month, the 
the moon would be full at about 142 days after the 
winter solstice, and would then be in the opposite 

. part of the heavens to the sun. The sun would have 
advanced in 143 days about 14°, and therefore would 
have entered the second Lunar Asterism, Satabhisha; 
a line drawn from the point in which the sun is thus 
situated, through the centre, would fall into the Lunar 
Asterism Magha, in which the moon was full, on the 
opposite side; and consequently, on the principle 
stated, the -solar month was from thence called 
Magha, in the form of a patronymic. At the next 
full, the moon would be in Uttara Phalguni, and the 
solar month from thence called Phalguna; and on 
this principle all the months of the year were named; 
that is to say, 


The month Magha, from the Lunar Asterism Magha, the 15th Mansion. 
Phalguna, from os U. Phalguni, .. 17th. 
Chaitra, from ae Chitra, «» 19th. 

* Vaisakha, from ov Visakha, o. 21st. 
Jyaishtha, from on Jyeshtha, oe 23rd, 
Ashira, from oe P. Ashad'ho, ., 25th, 
Sravara, from on Sravana, +» 27th. 
Bhadra, from a P. Bhadrapadi,.. 3rd. 
Aiwina, from we Aswini, «+ 6th. 
Kartika, from or Kyitike, ~. Sth. 
Margatirsha, from ae Mrigagiras «- 10th. 
Pausha, from ne ' Pashyé -» 18th. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 9 


On the principle above stated, though the moon has 
been introduced by way of explanation, it is not at all 
necessary. All that is requisite to be understood is, 
that a line drawn from some part of the Lunar 
Mansion, through the centre, must fall into some 
part of that month to which it gives name, otherwise 
it does not answer the condition requisite. Hence, 
it is very easy to demonstrate the utmost possible 
antiquity of the time, when the: months were, or 
could be, so named: for, there are certain limits 
beyond which the line cannot be drawn; and these 
are the termination of the Lunar Mansion, and the 
commencement of the solar month which. determines 
the time; . because, it points out the commencement 
of the solar month in respect of the fixed stars at the 
time. Thus, at the time of the above observations, 
the summer solstitial point was found in the middle 
of the Lunar Asterism As/esha, and the solar month 
Sravana then began; for, in the ancient Astronomy of 
the Hindus, that month always began at the summer 
solstice. Now the month Sravana derives its name 
from the Lunar Asterism Sravana (the 27th), then 
in the opposite part of the heavens. (See the plate.) 
Let, therefore, a line be drawn from the solstitial point, 
or commencement of the month, cutting the centre, 
and it will fall into the very end of the Lunar Asterism 
Sravana, from which it derives its name Sravana; 
which line is, therefore, at its utmost limit, as it can- 
not go farther without falling into a Mansion of a very 
different name. This position of the line, therefore, 
proves that the months received their names at the 
time of the above observations, and not before. For, 
if we wish to make it more. ancient, let the solstitial 
point be supposed more advanced in respect of the 
fixed stars, say one, two, or three degrees, as at a, 

c 


Digitized by Google 


10 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


then a line drawn from the solstitial point, or com- 
mencement of the month Sravana, suppose at a, as 
in the dotted line, cutting the centre, cannot fall into 
any part of the Lunar Asterism Sravand, from which 
it derives its name, but into Sravisht'hd (the Ist). 
Therefore, the name which it possesses, could never 
be given to it till the solstitial point, and commence- 
. ment of the month, actually coincided with the middle 
of the Lunar Asterism Aé/esha (the 14th), being the 
same with the observation which refers us to the year 
1181 B.C.; and this is the utmost antiquity of the 
formation and naming of the Hindu months, from 
which a very useful inference may be drawn, which 
is, that no Hindu writer, or book, that mentions the 
names of the Hindu months, can possibly be older 
than this period, let its pretensions to antiquity be 
_ ever so great. ' 

Beside the observations on the positions of the 
- Colures, there were others at the same time. Mer- 
cury was found at the winter solstice above men- 
tioned, to be in and near the beginning of the Lunar 
Asterism Sravisht'ha ; hence he is called Sravisht'haja, 
_ that is, born of the Lunar Asterism Sravishtha. This 
is, therefore, his second birth. 

The commentator on the Astronomy of the Rigveda, 
also states that the planet Jupiter was in the first 
eee of the Lunar Asterism Dhanisht'ha, that is, 

ravishtha. Modern European tables make his place, 
as seen from the earth, more advanced by 13°; 
whence it appears that the position. stated by the 
commentator was not from actual observation, but 
the effect of a computation made backwards, from 
about the 45th year of the Christian era, with the 
mean annual motion of Jupiter 1° 0° 21’ 9", 9, which 
quantity was employed before that time in settling 


Digitized by Google ? 


OF THE HINDUS. II 


the four ages hereafter mentioned in their proper 
place. This quantity is greater by 38", 2, than our 
modern European tables make the mean annual 
motion of Jupiter; so that, if we divide 13° by 
38", 2, we get the 1225th year after 1181 B.C. or 
the year A. D. 45; from which point of time, the 
computation, being made backwards, would place 
Jupiter in 3° 20 of Dhanisht'ha, at the winter solstice 
1181 B.C. 

The astronomers of this period, after having formed 
and named the Hindu months, as above mentioned, 
framed a cycle of five years for civil and religious 
purposes, in which cycle they reckoned, © 


Savan days, or degrees ; : . 1800 
Mean solar days : . 1830 
Lunar days, or Tithis (of 30 to aLunation) 1860 
Lunar'sideral days. . . 2010 
The number of Lunations, therefore, >= 62 
The year, ‘= : : : . 366 days 
The Lination: = 5 29° 12% 23" 13" 


And the difference. between the shortest and 
longest day was one hour and thirty-six minutes, 
which serves to point out the latitude of the place. 

' It is extremely probable that the above-mentioned 
observations were made in the time of Parasurama, 
who, it is said, was a great encourager of astrono- 
my. He lived upwards of 200 years before Rama, 
whose time will be shown in the next Section. If 
we take the data given by Dr. Buchanan, in his 
Journey to Malayala, wherein he states, that they 
reckoned by cycles of 1000 years from ParaSurama, 
and that of the then current cycle, 976 years were 
expired in September 1800, there must be elapsed 
from the epoch of Parasurama to A. D. 1800, 2976 
years; from which taking 1800, we have 1176 B.C. 


Digitized by Google 


12 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


for the epoch of that prince, which differs but five 
years from the time of the above observation. 

The years of the epoch of Parasurama are reckoned 
as beginning with the sign Virgo, or rather with the 
month Aswina, which was afterwards changed by 
the Chaldeans and Egyptians into the sign Virgo, at 
the time the constellations were formed; which will 
be noticed in its proper place. Some persons, per- 
haps, would think there was an error in commencing 
the year with the month Aswina, seeing that at the 
time of the observations, only five years before the 
epoch of Parasurama, the year began at the winter 
solstice with the month Magha. 

This is true; but it must be recollected, that the 
month of Magha was not the only month with which 
the year could commence : —any month commencing 
at the same moment the sun entered a Lunar Aste- 
rism, or, in other words, when the month and Lunar 
Mansion began together, such month might begin 
the year. At the time of the above observations, 
there were three months, each of which began with 
a Lunar Mansion. Thus, the month Adagha began 
with the Lunar Asterism Sravisht'ha: the month 
Jyaistha began with Miigasiras ; and Aswina began 
with the Lunar Asterism Chitra, as may be seen by 
the Plate; and therefore the year might begin with 
either of them. . The Lunar Mansions that begin with 
the months are called wives of the Sun, though they 
had already been all married to the Moon. 

The commencement of the year with the month 
Aswina, of all others, was the most celebrated: 
Durga, the year, personified in a female form, and 
goddess of nature, was then feigned to spring into 
existence. In the year 1181 B.C. the first of 
Aswina coincided with the ninth day of the moon; 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 13 


and on that day her festival was celebrated with the 
utmost pomp and grandeur. In the year 945 B.C. 
some further observations were made, by which they 
determined, that in 247 years and one month, the 
solstices fell back 3° 20’ in respect of the fixed stars. 
In consequence of these observations, they threw 
back the epoch of the commencement of the year 
with Aswina, in 1181, to the year 1192 B.C., in which 
year the commencement of Aswina fell on the sixth 
day of the moon; and the festival of Durga was ever 
after made to commence with the sixth lunar day of 
Aswina, and to continue down to the ninth inclusive, 

by which means both epochs were included. Thus 
I have shown both the origin and antiquity of the 
grand festival of Durga, which of all others is the 
most ancient and the most superb. This goddess, 
properly speaking, signifies the year : she is there- 
fore the goddess of nature; she is the consort of 
Siva (the personification of time in the male form); 
she is the same as the Juno of the Greeks and 
Romans, and the Isis of the Egyptians ; she is Ceres, 
Proserpine, and in fact the same as all the god- 
desses ; and their names are applicable to her. 


Digitized by Google 


14 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


SECTION Il. 


FROM 961 TO 698 B.C. 


Rama—time of his birth determined from Astronomical Data — Date of the 
Ramayana determined — Churning of the Ocean, or War between the Gods 
and the Giants, description of it — Time of it determined from Astronomical 
and other Data — Birth of Saturn — The month Kartika made the commence- 
ment of the year—The rate of precession determined —A Lunisolar period 
discovered, on which were founded the changes to take place in the commence- 
ment of the year —A Table of eight periods of the same, and the year of their 
respective commencement, &c. 


In the last Section I gave the epoch of Parasurama, 
1176 B.C. I shall now proceed to that of Rama, the 
son of Dasaratha, and who is believed, or feigned by 
the modern Hindus, to have been one of the incarn-.. 
ations of the Deity. The epoch of this prince is 
considered the most famous in Hindu history, and 
perhaps deservedly so; for in his time, and that of - 
his father, astronomy is said to have been cultivated 
with much attention; and it is supposed that the 
astronomical tables for calculating the places of the 
planets, were framed by means of the observations 
then made. It is, therefore, highly important that 
we should determine the time accurately, which for- 
tunately we are enabled to do from astronomical data. 

According to the Ramayana called Valmika’s, five 
of the planets were in their houses of exaltation, as 
the astrologers term it, at the birth of Rama: that 
is to say, the sun was in Aries?, the moon in Cancer, 
Venus in Pisces*, Jupiter in Cancer*, Mars in Capri- 
corn‘, and Saturn in Libra’, on the 9th lunar day of 
Chaitra. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 15 


The positions of the planets here given, I strongly 
suspect, are the result of modern computation, and 
not from actual observation: for the signs of the 
ecliptic, at least by these names, were totally un- 
known in the time of Rama; and were not intro- 
duced into India, I believe, until the second or third 
century of the Christian era. However, be this as it 
may, the situations assigned to the planets, whether 
from computation or otherwise, point out to us, that 
Rama was born on the 6th of April, 961 B.C.; at 
which time they were in the following positions : 


By Lalande’s Tables. By the Ramayana. 
Sones cecccecsce OS 69 11’ 23” LL... cece In Aries. 
Moon.......008 3 12 13 54... .ceeeweee Cancer. 
Venus ...sseee FY Us CO: Oe riseia sive scivre Pisces. 
Mars ..... -» 10 2 47 0 weeeee . Capricorn. 
Jupiter ..eeeeee 4 6 24 13 cecccccccece Cancer. 
Satarn ..eesee. 6 8 2% O cicccvessees Libra. 


- In which Jupiter is only 6° 24’ 13 beyond the limit, 
and Mars 2° 47’, 

When Rama attained the age of manhood, his 
father Dasaratha, in consequence of certain positions 
of the planets, approaching to a conjunction, sup- 
posed to portend evil, wished to share the govern- 
ment with him. Dasaratha says: “My star, O 
Rama, is crowded with portentous planets; the sun, 
Mars, and the moon’s ascending node” (Rahu), &c. 
Ramayana, B. i. s.3. v.16.—‘ To-day the moon rose 
in Punarvasu: the Astronomers announce her enter- 
ing Pushya to-morrow: be thou installed in Pushya.” 
v. 19.—** The sun’s ingress into Pushyé@ being now 
come, the Lagna of Karkata (Cancer), in which Rama 
was born, having begun to ascend above the horizon,” 
sec. 13. v. 3.—‘‘ The moon forbore to shine; the 
sun disappeared while it was day; a cloud of locusts, 
Mars, Jupiter, and the other planets inauspicious, 
approaching,” sec. 33. v. 9, 10. 


Digitized by Google 


16 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


The facts pointed out here, show that there was 
an eclipse of the sun at or near the beginning of 
Cancer, at the moon’s ascending node (Rahu being 
present); and that the planets were not far distant 
from each other. These circumstances, therefore, 
point out the time to have been the second of July, in 
the year 940 B.C.; so that Rama was then one-and- 
twenty years old. The following were the positions 
of the sun, moon, and planets at that time :— 


Bun cccccescvcccsecsees weeosecees 28 290 5 34° 

Moon weccccccccccccccccccsccscese 2 29 5 34 
Node ascending .....cseeesees $ 9 

Mercury’s geocentric L. 2 16 

Venus’s do. 8 8 

Mars’s do. 2 4 ‘ 

Jupiter’s do. 2 15 

Saturn’s do. 3 0 


It appears from what is above said, that the begin- 
ning of Pushya, and that of Cancer, were supposed 
to coincide; because it says that both the sun and 
moon entered Pushya: now the fact is, that in the 
time of Rama, no part of Pushya coincided with 
Cancer. We are therefore led to this important con- 
clusion, that the beginning of Cancer and that of 
Pushya coincided when the author of the Ramayana 
wrote that work, and that he therefore concluded, 
though erroneously, that they were so in the time of 
Rama. Now this gives us a clue to ascertain the 
date of the Ramayana. In the time of. Rama, the 
beginning of Cancer, or, which is the same thing, the 
beginning of the month Sravana, coincided with 3° 
20' of the Lunar Asterism ASlesha; and from thence 
to the beginning of Pushya, is exactly 16° 40’. Now 
the beginning of Cancer must fall back 16° 40’ in 
respect of the fixed stars, before it could coincide 
with that of Pushya—the precession was found equal 
to 3° 20' in 247 years and one month—therefore 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE H{NDUS. 17 


16° 40'=1235™. 5™ from which subtract 940, and we 
get A. D. 295, the time when the beginning of Cancer 
and that of Pushya coincided, and consequently the 
period when the Ramayana was written. In thus 
giving the age of the Ramayana of Valmika, as it is 
called, I do not mean to say that the facts on which 
that romance was founded, in part, did not exist 
long before : on the contrary, my opinion is, that they 
did, and probably were to be then found in histories 
or oral traditions brought down to the time. The 
author of the Ramayana was more a poet than an 
astronomer, and being unacquainted with the pre- 
cession, he fell into the mistake alluded to; for I do 
not suppose it was intentional, as that could answer 
no purpose. He made the like mistake, and from 
the same cause, in saying, that the moon at the birth 
of Rama, on the 9th of the moon of Chaitra, was in 
the Lunar Asterism Aditi, or Punarvasu, which could 
not be the case. 

' J have now, I think, shown pretty clearly the 
epoch of Rama from the positions of the planets at 
his birth, as well as at the time he was invited by his 
father to share the government with him. There is, 
however, another important circumstance that oc- 
curred in the time of Rama, which we ought not to 
pass over, and which, while it also shows the time of 
that prince, points out a most material error in the 
chronology of the western world, in respect to certain 
points in history. The circumstance I allude to is 
what is generally called, or known by the name of, 
the War between the Gods and the Giants. 

I am not aware that any person has ever attempted 
to determine the time of this extraordinary fiction, 
which is somewhat singular, as there are sufficient 
data for that purpose to be met with. 

D 


Digitized by Google 


18 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


_ By what is stated in the Ramayana, it appears that 
Dasaratha, the father of Rama, had two wives, and 
that he made a promise to one of them, at the time of 

‘churning the ocean, that her issue should succeed to . 

the throne, in preference to the children of the other. 
That in consequence of this promise, when he wished 
that Rama should be installed, he was opposed, and 
the compact he had unwarily entered into, brought 
forward as an argument against it; and as the pro- 
mise of the king could not lawfully be broken, Rama, 
his eldest son, and the real heir to the throne,. was 
obliged to relinquish his right, and, in sorrow of heart, 
to betake himself to the wilderness, where he is said 
to have suffered great and many hardships. 

The fact here stated, is sufficient to show the time 
of the churning of the ocean, otherwise called the 
War between the Gods and the Giants, that it must have 
taken place after the marriage of Dasaratha, nay, 
after the children were born; for it would be absurd 
to suppose that any such promise could well be made 
or exacted, before there was actual issue in being to 
benefit by it. However, be this as it may, we have 
other data to show, not only the year, but the very 
day and hour to which it refers. 

Before we proceed, however, to the data, it will 
be proper, in this place, to give the Hindu descrip- 
tion of the churning of the ocean, and the subsequent 
battle, as a principal part of the evidence will be 
found to emerge therefrom. On this occasion; I 
shall employ Mr. Wilkins’s translation, as given by 
him from Book i. chap. 15. of the Mahabharata, as 
being more full than what is to be found in the gene- 

_ rality of the Puranas. -It runs thus :— 

“‘There is a fair and stately mountain, and its. 
name is Meru, a most exalted mass of glory, reflect- 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 19 


ing the sunny rays from the splendid surface of its 
gilded horns. It is clothed in gold, and is the re- 
spected haunt of Devas (gods), and Gandharvas (ce- 
lestial singers). It is inconceivable, and not to be 
encompassed by sinful man; and it is guarded by 
dreadful serpents. Many celestial medicinal plants 
adorn its sides; and it stands piercing the heavens 
with its aspiring summit—a mighty hill, inacces- 
sible even by the human mind. It is adorned with 
trees and pleasant streams, and resoundeth with 
delightful songs of various birds. The Siras, and all 
the glorious hosts of heaven, having ascended to the 
summit of this lofty mountain, sparkling with pre- 
cious gems, and for eternal ages raised, were sitting 
in solemn synod, meditating the discovery of the 
Am*yita, or water of immortality. The Deva Nara- 
yana* being also there, spoke unto Brahmat whilst 
the Siirast were thus consulting together, and said, 
‘ Let the ocean, as a pot of milk, be churned by 
the united labour of the Si#ras and Aéiras§; and 
when the mighty waters have been stirred up, the 
Amita shall be found. Let them collect together 
every medicinal herb, and every previous thing, and 
let them stir the ocean, and they shall discover the 
Amrita.’ | 

_ There is also another mighty mountain, whose 
name is Mandar, and its rocky summits are like 
towering clouds. It is clothed in a net of the en- 
tangled tendrils of the twining creeper, and resound- 
eth with the harmony of various birds. Innumerable 


* Vishnu —time ; 2nd person of the Hindu triad. 

+ Brahma—time ; 1st person of the Hindu triad. 

¢ Saras; feigned deities, implying light. 

§ Astras; feigned demons, implying the opposite to light, or darkness. 
|| Amita ; the fabled liquor of immortality. 


Digitized by Google 


20 , THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


savage beasts infest its borders; and it is the re- 
spected haunt of Kinnaras (celestial musicians), 
Devas, and Asiiras (celestial courtezans). It stand- 
eth eleven thousand yojans above the earth, and 
eleven thousand more below its surface. As the 
united bands of Devas were unable to remove this 
mountain, they went before Vishnu, who was sitting 
with Brahma, and addressed them in these words: 
‘ Exert, O masters, your superior wisdom to remove 
the mountain Mandar, and employ your utmost 
power for our good.’ Vishnu and Brahma having 
said, ‘ It shall be according to your wish,’ he with 
the lotus eye directed the king of serpents to ap- 
pear; and Ananta* rose, and was instructed in that 
work by Brahma, and commanded by Narayana, to 
perform it. Then Ananta, by his ‘power, took up 
that king of the mountains, together with all its 
forests, and every inhabitant thereof; and the Suras 
accompanied him into the presence of the Ocean, 
whom they addressed, saying, ‘ We will stir up thy 
waters to obtain the Amrita.’ And the lord of the 
waters replied, ‘ Let me also have a share, seeing I 
am to bear the violent agitations that will be caused 
by the whirling of the mountains.’ Then the Suras 
and Asuras spoke unto Kurma-raja, the king of the 
tortoises, upon the strand of the ocean, and said, 
‘ My lord is able to be the supporter of this moun- 
tain.’ The tortoise replied, ‘ Be it so;’ and it was 
placed upon his back. 

‘«« So the mountain being set upon the back of the 
tortoise, Indra began to whirl it about as it were a 
machine. The mountain Mandar served as a churn, 
and the serpent Vasukif for the rope: and thus in 


* Ananta. The serpent Ananta implies time without end ; also the ycar. 
t The serpent Vasuki, figuratively the year. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS: 21 


former days did the Devas, the Asuras, and the 
Danus (or Danavas, feigned giants), begin to stir up 
the waters of the ocean for the discovery of the 
Amrita. 

“ The mighty Asuras were employed on the side 
of the serpent’s head, whilst all the Suras assembled 
about his tail. Ananta, that sovereign Deva, stood 
near Narayana. 

. ** They now pull forth the serpent’s head repeat- 
edly, and as often let it go; whilst there issued from 
his mouth, thus violently drawing to and fro by the 
Suras and Asuras, a continual stream of fire, and 
smoke, and wind; which ascending in thick clouds 
replete with lightning, it began to rain down upon 
the heavenly bands, who were already fatigued with 
their labour; whilst a shower of flowers was shaken 
from the top of the mountain, covering the heads of 
all, both Suras and Asuras.- In the mean time, the 
roaring of the ocean, whilst violently agitated with 
the whirling of the mountain Mandar by the Suras 
and Asuras, was like the bellowing of a mighty 
cloud. Thousands of the various productions of the 
waters were torn to pieces by the mountain, and 
confounded with the briny flood; and every specific 
being of the deep, and all the inhabitants of the great 
abyss which is below the earth, were annihilated ; 
whilst, from the violent agitation of the mountain, the 
forest trees were dashed against each other, and pre- 
cipitated from its utmost height, with all the birds 
thereon; from whose violent confrication a raging 
fire was produced, involving the whole mountain with 
smoke and flame, as with a dark blue cloud, and the 
lightning’s vivid flash. The lion and the retreating 
elephant are overtaken by the devouring flames, and 
every vital being, and every specific thing, are con- 


Digitized by Google 


22 R THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


sumed in the general conflagration. The raging 
flames thus spreading destruction on all sides, were 
at length quenched by a shower of cloud-borne 
water poured down by the immortal Indra.* And 
now a heterogeneous stream of the concocted juices 
of various trees and plants ran down into the briny 
flood. 

‘“‘ It was from this milk-like stream. of juices, pro- 
duced from those trees and plants, and a mixture of 
melted gold, that the Suras obtained their immortality. 

‘The waters of the ocean now being assimilated 
with those juices, were converted into milk; and 
from that milk a kind of butter was presently pro- 
duced: when the heavenly bands went again into 
the presence of Brahma, the grantee of boons, and 
addressed him, saying, ‘ Except Narayana, every 
other Sura and Asura is fatigued with his labour ; 
and still the Amita doth not appear; wherefore the 
churning of the ocean is at a stand.’ Then Brahma 
said unto Narayana, ‘ Endue them with recruited 
strength; for thou art their support.’ And Nara- 
yana answered and said, ‘I will give fresh vigour to 
such. as co-operate in the work. Let Mandar be 
whirled about, and the bed of the ocean be kept 
steady.’ 

“« When they heard the words of Narayana, they 
all returned again to the work, and began to stir 
about with great force that butter of the ocean, when 
there presently arose from out of the troubled deep, 
first the moon, with a pleasing countenance, shining ' 
with ten thousand beams of gentle light; next fol- 
lowed Srit, the goddess of fortune, whose seat is the 


* Indra, regent-of the skies —a personification of the sky. 
+ Sri, or Lakshmi, the luvisolar year ; also the moon. — [Most of the names men- 
tioned here, I believe, represent time.] 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 23 


white lily of the waters; then Sura Devi*, the god- 
dess of wine, and the white horse called Uchisrava.t 
And after these, there was produced from the unc- 
tuous mass, the jewel Kaustubhay}, that glorious 
sparkling gem worn by Narayana on his breast: so 
Parijataka§, the tree of plenty; and Surabhi||, the 
cow that granted every heart’s desire. 

‘‘ The moon, Sura Devi, the goddess Sri, and the 
horse as swift as thought, instantly marched away 
towards the Devas, keeping in the path of the sun. 

‘« Then the Deva Dhanwantari§[, in human shape, 
came forth, holding in his hand a white vessel filled 
with the immortal juice Amfita. When the Asuras 
beheld these wondrous things appear, they raised 

_ their tumultuous voices for the Amrita; and each of 
them clamorously exclaimed, ‘ This of right is mine.’ 

‘<In the mean time, Azravata **, a mighty elephant, 
arose, now kept by the god of thunder; and as they 
continued to churn the ocean more than enough, that 
deadly poison issued from its bed, burning like a 
raging fire, whose dreadful fumes in a moment spread 
through the world, confounding the three regions of 
the universe with its mortal stench, until Siva+t, at 
the word of Brahma, swallowed the fatal drug to 
save mankind; which remaining in the throat of that 
sovereign Deva of magic form, from that time he hath 


. Sara Devi, the goddess of wine, the consort of Bacchas —or the year. 
+ Uchisrava, the white horse, probably the year ; for time has long ears as well as 
wings. 
¢ Kaustubha, the glorious sparkling gem, the sun. 
§ Périjataka, the tree of plenty, is doubtless the year. 
{| Surabhi, the cow that grants every boon —~ the year. 
G Dhanwantari, the year, or time, the best physician— the same as Esculapius. 
** Airavata. By this most probably is meant clouds, as productive of thunder 
and lightning, and appertaining to Indra, the sky, personified as the god of thunder, 
tt Siva, time, the great deity of the Hindus. 


Digitized by Google 


24 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


been called Nilkanta, because his throat was stained 
blue. 

«© When the Asuras beheld this miraculous deed, 
they became desperate ; and the Amita and the god- 
dess Sri became the source of endless hatred. 

“« Then Narayana assumed the character and per- 

son of Mohini Maya, the power of enchantment, in a 
female form of wide beats: and stood before 
the Asuras, whose minds being fascinated by her 
presence, and deprived of reason, they seized the 
Amrita, and gave it unto her. 
- “The Asuras now clothe themselves in costly 
armour, and, seizing their various weapons, rush on 
together to attack the Suras. In the mean time, 
Narayana, in the female form, having obtained the 
Amrita from the hands of their leader, the host of 
Suras, during the tumult and confusion of the Asuras, 
drank of the living water. 

«‘ And it so fell out, that whilst the Suras were 
quenching their thirst for immortality, Rahu*, an 
Asura, assumed the form of a Sura, and began to 
drink also: and the water had but reached his throat, 
when the sun and moon, in friendship to the Suras, 
discovered the deceit; and instantly Narayana cut 
off his head, as he was drinking, with his splendid 
weapon Chacra.t And the gigantic head of the 
Asura, emblem of a mountain’s summit, being thus 
separated from his body by the Chacra’s edge, bound- 
ed into the heavens with a dreadful cry; whilst his 
ponderous trunk fell, cleaving the ground asunder, 
and shaking the whole.earth unto its foundation, with 


* Raha, the moon’s ascending node personified. 
+ Chacra, the ecliptic, by which the dragon of old was feigned to be cut in two 
parts, Raku, the bead, or ascending node, and Ketu, the tail, or descending node. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. - 25 


all its islands, rocks, and forests. And from that 
time, the head of Rahu resolved an eternal enmity, 
and continueth even unto this day, at times, to seize 
upon the sun and moon.* 

- © Now Narayana, having quitted the female figure 
he had assumed, began to disturb the Asuras with 
sundry celestial weapons; and from that instant a 
dreadful battle was commenced on the ocean’s briny 
strand, between the Asuras and the Suras. Innu- 
merable sharp and missile weapons were hurled, and 
thousands of piercing darts and battle-axes fell on 
all sides. The Asuras vomit blood from the wounds 
of the Chacra, and fall upon the ground, pierced by 
the sword, the spear, and the spiked club. Heads 
glittering with polished gold, and divided by the 
Pattis blade, drop incessantly ; and mangled bodies, 
wallowing in their gore, lay, like fragments of mighty 
rocks sparkling with gems and precious ores. Mil- 
lions of sighs and groans arise on every side; and 
the sun is overcast with blood, as they clash their 
arms, and wound each other with their dreadful in- 
struments of destruction. 

“< Now the battle. is fought with the iron-spiked 
club; and as they close with clenched fist, and the 
din of war ascendeth to the heavens, they cry: 
‘ Pursue! Strike! Fell to the ground!’ So that a 
horrid and tumultuous noise is heard on all sides. 

‘‘In the midst of this dreadful hurry and confu- 
sion of the fight, Narat and Narayana entered the 


* This eclipse at the war between the gods and the giants, so poetically described, 
is the first on record, that on the 2d July, 940 B.C. being the second. It is remark- 
able, that during the war between the gods and the giants in the west, which will be 
noticed in the next section, there was also an eclipse of the sun, which is the first 
koown or mentioned in poetic story. 

+ Nara, the eternal, the same as Narayana or Vishno. 


E 


Digitized by Google 


26 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


field together. Narayana, beholding a celestial bow 
in the hand of Nara, it reminded him of the Chacra, 

the destroyer of the Asuras. The faithful weapon, 
by name Sudarsana, ready at the mind’s call, flew 
down from heaven with direct and refulgent speed, 

beautiful, yet terrible to behold. And being arrived, 
glowing like the sacrificial flame, and spreading 
terror around, Narayana, with his right arm formed 
like the elephantine trunk, hurled forth the ponder- 
ous orb, the speedy messenger, and glorious ruin of 
hostile towns; who, raging like the final all-destroy- 
ing fire, shot bounding with desolating force, killing 
thousands of the Asuras in his rapid flight, burning 
and involving like the lambent flame, and cutting 
down all that would oppose him. Anon he climbeth 
the heavens, and now again darteth into the field like 
a Pisdcha to feast in blood. 

‘‘ Now the dauntless Asuras strive with repeated 
strength to crush the Swras with rocks and moun- 
tains, which, hurled in vast numbers into the heavens, 
appear like scattered clouds, and fell, with all the 
trees thereon, in millions of fear-exciting torrents, 
striking violently against each other with a mighty 
noise; and in their fall, the earth, with all its fields 
and forests, is driven from its foundation. They 
thunder furiously at each other, as they roll along 
the field, and ‘spend their strength in mutual conflict. 

«* Now Nara, seeing the Suras overwhelmed with 
fear, filled up the path to heaven with showers of 
golden-headed arrows, and split the mountain sun- 
mits with its unerring shafts; and the Asuras, find- 
ing themselves again sore pressed by the Suras, 
precipitately flee. Some rush headlong into the briny 
waters of the ocean, and others hide themselves within 
the bowels of the earth. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 27 


‘©The rage of the glorious Chacra, Sudarsana, 
which for a while burnt like the oil-fed fire, now 
grew cool, and he retired into the heavens from 
whence he came. And the Suras having obtained 
the victory, the mountain Mandar was carried back 
to its former station with great respect; whilst the 
waters also retired, filling the firmament and the 
heavens with their dreadful roarings. The Suras 
guarded ‘the Amrita with great care, and rejoiced 
exceedingly because of their success; and Indra, 
with all his immortal bands, gave the water of life 
unto Narayana to keep it for their use.” 

In this highly coloured fiction, the Hindu poets 
have exerted all their abilities to give a most pom- 
pous description of a battle that never existed, the 
foundation of which shall presently be explained. 
By what is stated above, it will appear that the sun, 
moon, and Rahu, or the moon’s ascending node per- 
sonified, were present, consequently an eclipse of 
the sun is thereby indicated at the ascending node. 
Moreover, the goddess Sri*, or Lakshmi, was then 
born, or produced from the sea. Therefore, in order 
to find the time, we refer to the Hindu calendar, 
where we find that her birth-day falls on the 30th 
lunar day of the moon of Aswina; so that the solar 
eclipse at the ascending node must have happened 
on that day; which circumstance alone would be 
sufficient to point out the day and year of the eclipse. 
But the goddess Lakshmi was born on a Thursday ; 
hence that day is called Laksmiwar ; and therefore 


* The Venus Aphroditus of the Western mythologists, and emblematic of the 
lunisolar year : therefore she is called the goddess of increase, abundance, &c. She 
is the daughter of Durga, and the Proserpine of the West ; aud, considered as time, 
she is the same with her mother. Metaphorically, she may sometimes represent 
the moon, : 


Digitized by Google 


28 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


the eclipse must have been on Thursday.* From all 
these data, it is easy to determine the time, inde- 
pendent altogether of any knowledge of the time of 
Rama. But beside these, there are others, if thought 
necessary. One is, that the planet Saturn, at the 
time of this eclipse, was supposed to be born from 
the earth’s shadow; that is to say, that he was situ- 
ated in that part of the heavens towards which the 
shadow of the earth projected: he was, in conse- 
quence, called the offspring of the shadow, or Chay- 
dsuta. Another is, that Saturn was: born in the 
Lunar Asterism Rohini; in consequence of which, 
they say, that any person born under that mansion, 
while Saturn is in it, is of the same nature with that 
planet, that is, of an evil disposition. The shadow 
of the earth at the time of the eclipse must therefore 
have pointed towards the Lunar Asterism Rohini, in 
which Saturn was born. All these data are more 
than sufficient for our purpose. Proceeding, there- 
fore, with the three first, we find that the eclipse we 
are in quest of fell on Thursday, the 25th October, 
in the year 945 B.C.-at which time, 


The Sun’s longitude from Aries was about ........ 63 229 $7’ 

The Moon’s do. do see we ence 6 22 37 
Sun from the node about .....-cecceceveees 0 12 
Mercury’s geocentric longitude about ......+. 6 18 
Venus’s do. do. = aecevece 7. 1 
Mars's do. do. = aeweceee 6 11 
Tupiter’s do. do, we ntcnce 8 26 
Saturn’s do. CC ee 0 26 


From which it will appear, that all the planets, 
except Saturn, were on the same side of the heavens 
with the sun and moon. The sun’s longitude at the 
time of the conjunction being 6° 22° 37’, the point of 
the earth’s shadow must be then directly opposite, 


* The day was called Thursday, because Jupiter on that day conquered the Titans. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. | 29 


that is, in 0° 22°37’; and as Saturn was in 0° 25°, 
the difference is something more than 2° from the line 
of the céntre of the shadow; which difference, how- 
ever, could be of no importance, as still Saturn would 
be considered in the earth’s shadow, according to 
the notions of the ancients, who believed’ that the 
earth was much larger than the sun, nay, that it was 
supposed to be flat, and surrounded with various 
seas, until it reached the starry heavens. But Saturn 
was also said to be born in the Lunar Asterism 
Rohini ; which fact we must now ascertain, in order 
to prove the truth or falsehood of the assertion. For 
this purpose we make choice of the star Cor Leonis, 
whose longitude is 9° in the Lunar Asterism Maghd. 


The longitude of this star, in A. D. 1750, was .....00. 43 260 21’ 12” 
Subtract precession for 2694 years ..cecoccecsccees 1°7 40 42 
Remain fongitude in the year 945 B.C....-cececesese 3 18 40 30 
Subtract longitade of Cor Leonis in Magha ....sceses 09 0 0 
Remain longitude of the beginning of Maghd.....-ee0s 3 9 40 30 
Subtract six Lunar Mansions, complete...... ta Siesleie ~» 2 20 0 0 
Remain longitude of the beginning of Rohini......se0« 0 19 40.30 
Which taken from Saturn’s longitude ...icceccecese 0 25 0 0 
Leaves Saturn’s longitude in Rohini ....scsecececees 0 6 19 30 


So that Saturn was actually near the middle of 
Rohini at the time.- Rohini is the 9th Lunar Aster- 
ism, reckoning from Dhanisht'ha, as the first. 

Thus I have at length, I think, not only confirmed 
the most famous epoch in Hindu history, that of 
Rama, but also, in a most decisive manner, shown 
the real time of that most extraordinary of all fictions 
that ever was invented by human ingenuity, the War 
between the Gods and the Giants; which fiction, 
about two hundred years afterwards, was new-mo- 
delled and improved by Hesiod and others, and ulti- 
mately became the foundation of the religions of 
various nations of antiquity, on which more will be 
said in the next section. 


Digitized by Google 


30 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY . 


_ I shall now proceed to give some explanation of 
the origin of the fiction, which in itself is nothing 
more nor less than a feigned war between light and 
darkness, and their imaginary offsprings. The eclipse 
took place on the 25th of October, at which time the 
longitude of the sun and moon was 6° 22° 37’. Now 
the Hindu months always began at the moment the 
sun was supposed to enter the sign: therefore it was 
the 23d day of the month of Kartika when the eclipse 
happened, reckoning back from this; and the first of 
the month will be found to have fallen on the end of 
the sixth day of the moon. This being the time of 
the autumnal equinox, it was found by observation 
that the Colures had fallen back in respect of the 
fixed stars, 3° 20’ since the former observations in 
1181 B.C.; so that the cardinal points of the year, 
or the Colures, were now found in the following 

positions : — 
The vernal so apa point in the middle 

of Bharani. : the 7th. 
The summer solstice in 3° 20' of Aélesha the 14th. 
The autuninal equinox in the beginning of 

Visaka . ‘ : the 21st. 
And the winter polices in 10° of Sravant the 27th. 

It is said, that at this time they formed the stars 
into various groupes or constellations, but of which 
we have now very little or no knowledge. It is also 
said, that the theogony was then formed or invented, 
and that the heavens were divided or shared between 
the gods, each having a certain portion assigned to 
him, which stands on Hindu record to this day. 

Among these deities was Yama, the judge of the 
dead, the Pluto of the Western mythologists. To 
him the Lunar Asterism Bharani (the 7th) was as- 
signed as his house: so that from the positions of 


Digitized by Google 


Llate LH. 


L, Clark seulof 


Lublished by Smith, Elder, & C? Cornhill, London, 1828. 


Digitized by Google 


Si acsiethat ah. -. ts lt ee BS ed 


OF THE HINDUS. . 8i 


the Colures at the time above described, the equi- 
noxial Colure passed through the very middle of it; 
and the solstitial Colures cutting Aslesha in 3° 20’, 
and Sravana in 10°, divided the. heavens exactly in 
two equal portions ; from which, I believe, the fiction 
of the heavens being divided between Jupiter and 
Pluto originally sprung. (See Plate III. in which 
the Mansions are numbered as in Plate II.) From 
these positions, it is evident, that the solstitial Co- 
lures, which divided the heavens, would also form 
the boundary between light and darkness; and as 
the serpent’s head was always at the winter solstitial 
point, as I formerly explained, a line drawn from it, 
cutting the serpent in the middle, would place the 
head, or first half, in the darkened hemisphere, and 
the tail, or last half, in the enlightened hemisphere. 
Hence the poet, in his fiction, places the Aéuras at 
the head, and the Swras at the tail, which we see was: 
strictly true; for Sura means light, and comes from : 
the root Sura, to shine, &c. and Asura means the ' 
opposite, consequently darkness. Thus the morning 
star (which in ancient time was supposed to be the - 
planet Jupiter), was called the guide of the gods, be- : 
cause it indicated the approach of day, or light; 
while, on the other hand, the evening star (Venus) ' 
was called the guide of the Asuras, because it indi-— 
cated the approach of darkness, or night. This short . 
explanation will, I hope, be considered as sufficient: 
to enter more fully into the subject would require the » 
whole of the Hindu theogony to be brought forward 
and explained, which would swell this essay to a. 
much greater extent than what is absolutely neces- 
sary for the purpose intended. 

It has been mentioned above, that the beginning - 
of the-month fell on the end of the sixth day of the 


Digitized by Google 


32 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


moon, and that it was found that the Colures had 
fallen back from their former positions 3°20’. This 
made the beginning of the month Kartika coincide 
with that of the Lunar Asterism Visakha, in conse- 
quence of which it was made the commencement of 
the year; and in order to make this circumstance 
still more remarkable, it was made the birth of Kar- 
tikeya, or the Hindu god of war (a personification of 
the year, beginning with the month Kartika), naming 
him in the form of a patronymic, from the month 
with which the year began. Moreover, they esta- 
blished a festival in honour of him, which is marked 
in the Hindu calendar by the name of Guha Shasti: 
Guha, implying Kartikeya, and Skasti, the sixth day - 
of the moon on which the year began. At the festi- 
val he is represented as riding on a peacock, indi- 
cating thereby that he is the head, and all the planets 
are stars in his train; whence, metaphorically, he 
is called the general of armies, which he is there © 
supposed to lead. He is called by a variety of epi- 
thets, indicating his supposed exploits, qualities, &c. 
such as, 

Shadanana— six-faced, in allusion to the six seasons 
of the year: 

Dwidasalochana —twelve-eyed, in allusion to the 
twelve months of the year: 

Visaka—alluding to the commencement of the 
year with that Lunar Asterism. 

It appears also, that the astronomers of this period _ 
(945 B.C.), among other things, had determined the 
rate of precession of the equinoxes, which they found 
to be 3° 20’ in 247 Hindu tropical years and one 
month; in consequence of which determination, they 
settled the commencement of the former period, and 
made it the first of Aswina in the year 1192 B.C. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 33 


which fell on the sixth day of the moon, as men- 
tioned in the last section. 

' They found that in this period of 247 years and 
one month, in which the sun made 247 revolutions 
and one sign over, that the moon made 3303 revolu- 
tions and one sign over, and that there were 3056 
lunations complete, and that the number of days in 
the whole period was 90,2453. Hence we get, 
Length of the Tropical year 365% 5" 50™ 10's 

of the Hindu side- 


ral year P : 365 6 9 52%) 
ofalunation . 2912 44 3 
Moon’s tropical revolution 27 7 43 5 
Mean annual precession - 48" 56661 
Sun’s mean motion for 365 days 11° 29° 45’ 37” 


Moon’s mean motion for 365 days 138" 4 9 22 57 
From the circumstance of the astronomical period 
above mentioned, containing one month over and 
above 247 years, it is obvious that it must begin 
and end with the same month of the year, and that 
the next succeeding period would begin with the 
month following, and thereby change the commence- 
ment of the year one month later each succeeding 
period: and, moreover, as there was a complete 
number of lunations (3056) in the period, it follows 
that the moon’s age would be always the same at 
the commencement of each succeeding period. For 
instance, at the beginning of Kartika, 945 B.C. the 
sun’s longitude was 6*, and the moon’s was 8° 12; 
hence it was the end of the sixth lunar day of 12° 
each: and this would be constantly the same at the 
beginning of each period, in succession, as may be 
seen by the following table of all the changes made 
in the commencement of the Hindu year, from 1192 
_B.C. down to A.D. 538, when the ancient method 
F 


Digitized by Google 


34 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


was entirely laid aside, and the present, or sideral 
astronomy introduced. 


L. A. Coin- | San’s |Moon’s 
Began. | Months. ciding.  {Longit. |Longit. Calendar. 


1192 8.c.)1 Aswina Chitra 5s 


0°} 7812°|Shasty Adikalpa | 1 Sept 
945.. |1 Kartika |Visdkha ~ 6 0O| 8 12 |Guha Shasti 1 Oct. 
698 .. [1 Agrahayana| Jyest ha 7 0 | 9 12 |Mitra Saptami (29 .. 
451... |1 Pausha P. Asad‘ha 8 0 [lo 12 27 Nov 
204... |1 Magha Sravana 9 © j21 12 |BhascaraSeptami}25 Dec 
44a. >. 1 Philguna Satubhisha |10 0 | 0 12 23 Jan 
291... |1 Chaitra U.Bhadrapada|il 0 {1 1 21 Feb. 
538... |1 Vaisakha | Aswini 0 0 | 2 12 'Jaknu Saptami |22 Mar 


In the above table, the first column contains the 
periods, the second the year before and after Christ, 
the third and fourth the Hindu month and Lunar 
Asterism with which the periods begin; the fifth 
and sixth, the sun and moon’s longitudes at the 
commencement of each period; the seventh, the 
names and lunar days of commencement, according 
to the calendar; and the eighth, the corresponding 
day of the European months, according to common 
reckoning. Thus the first period began in the year 
1192 B.C. on the first of the Hindu month Aswina, 
at the commencement of the Lunar Asterism Chitra, 
the sun’s longitude from Aries being then 5’, and 
the moon's 7* 12°, corresponding to the 2d Septem- 
ber, about sunrise, according to common reckoning 
in India. The commencement of each period falling 
at the end of the sixth lunar day, it might therefore 
begin either on the sixth or seventh; but the com- 
mon practice afterwards being to commence on the 
following sunrise, the calendar states them all as 
beginning on the seventh, except the two first 
periods. The names Mitra, Bhascara, and Jahnu, 
are those of the sun. 

The third period began with the month Marga- 
sirsha, which name was changed into Agrahayana, 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 35 


to express the circumstance of its commencing the 
year, and which it has ever since retained, though 
no longer beginning the year. 

The precession of the equinoxes was reckoned 
from the commencement of the first period, in the 
year 1192 B.C., because in that year the moveable 
Lunar Mansions, or those depending on the sun’s re- 
volution in the tropics, coincided with the fixed or 
sideral ones of the same name; and the beginning of 
the solar month Magha, which was always the in- 
stant of the winter solstice, and the commencement 
of the season Sisira, coincided with the beginning of 
the Lunar Asterism Dhanisht'ha, otherwise called 
Sravishtha. All these, that is to say, the moveable 
Lunar Mansions, the solar months, Colures, and 
seasons, fell back in respect of their then positions 
with the fixed stars, at the rate of 3° 20' in every 
astronomical period of 247 years and one month, or 
48",56661, annually. 


Digitized by Google 


36 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


SECTION IIf. 


THE WAR BETWEEN THE GODS AND THE GIANTS IN 
THE WEST. 


The War between the Gods and the Giants in the West, described by Hesiod 
- in his Theogony — The time of it determined from various Data— Its dura- 
tion 10 years and five months — The Zodiacal Constellations and others then 
formed — The original idea of some of them appears to have been derived from 
the Hindus — The Tropical Signs named after the Zodiacal Constellations — 
The Months named after the Tropical Signs with which they then coincided — 
Their names compared — Homer and Hesiod not so ancient as generally sup- 
posed— The year represented by the Ancients under a great variety of names 
and personifications, as Mercury, Hermes, Anubis, Budha, &c. &c. 


In the foregoing section I have endeavoured to show 
the progress of Astronomy in Jndia in the time of 
Rama; we shall now take a view of the labours of 
the astronomers in other parts of the world, particu- 
larly in Chaldea and Egypt. Before, however, we 
can enter on this interesting subject, which will re- 
quire particular attention, it will be necessary to 
insert here some parts of the fiction of the War 
between the Gods and the Giants in the West, the 
idea of which doubtless was borrowed from the one 
in the East, it being in like manner not only con- 
nected with, but serving essentially to point out the 
time of the formation of the constellations, to immor- 
talize which seems to have been the object of the 
fiction. . 

Hesiod in his. Theogony gives the following de- 
scription :— . 


«« When first the sire ’gainst Cottus, Briareus, 
And Gyges, felt his moody anger chafe 
Within him, — sore amazed with that their strength 
Immeasurable, their aspect fierce, and bulk 
Gigantic, — with a chain of iron force 625 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 37 


He bound them down, and fixed their dwelling place 
Beneath the spacious grouud : beneath the ground 
They dwelt in pain and durance in th’ abyss, 
There sitting where earth’s utmost boundaries end. 830 
Fall long opprest with mighty grief of heart 
They brooded o’er their woes: but then did Jove, 
Saturnian, and those other deathless gods 
Whom fair-hair’d Rhea bore to Saturn’s love, 
By counsel wise of earth, lead forth again 835 
To light. For she successive all things told : 
How with the giant brethren they should win 
The glory bright of conquest. 
: Long they fought 
With toil soul-harrowing ; they the deities 
Titanic and Saturnian ; each to each . 840 
Opposed, in valour of promiscuous war. 
From Othrys’ lofty summit warr’d the host 
Of glorious Titans: from Olympus, they 
The band of gift-dispensing deities ; 
Whom fair-hair’d Rhea bore to Satarn’s love. 845 
So wag’d they war soul-harrowing: each with each 
Ten years and more the furious battle joined 
Unintermitted : nor to either host 
Was issue of stern strife nor end: alike 
Did either stretch the limit of the war. 850 


«« Bat now when Jove had set before his powers 
All things befitting : the repast of gods, 
The nectar and ambrosia, in each breast 
Kindled th’ heroic spirit: and now all 
The nectar and ambrosia sweet had shar’d, : 855 
‘When spake the father both of gods and men. 
« Hear, ye illustrious race of earth and heav’a, 
‘What tow the soul within me prompts. Fall long 
Day after day in battle have we stood, 
Oppos’d Titanic and Saturnian gods 860 
For conquest and for empire : still do ye 
In deadly combat with the Titans join’d, 
Strength mighty and anconquerable hands Z 
Display : remembering our benignant love 
And tender mercies which ye prov’d, again 865 
From restless agony of bondage risen, 
So will’d our counsel, and from gloom to-day.’ 


“« He spake ; when answer’d Cottus the renown'd : 
«© O Jove august! not darkly hast thou said : 
Nor know we not how excellent thou art 870 
In wisdom; from a curse most horrible ° 
Rescuing immortals. © imperial son 
Of Satara! by thy counsels have we ris’n 


Digitized by Google 


38: 


THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


Again, from bitter bondage and the depth 
Of darkness, all unhoping of relief, 

Then with persisting spirit and device 

Of prudent warfare, shall we still assert 
Thy empire midst the rage of arms, and still 
In hardy conflict brave the Titan foe.’ 


«He ceas’d. The gift-dispensing gods around 

Heard, and in praise assented : nor till then 
So barn’d each breast with ardoar to destroy. 
All in that day roused infinite the war, 
Female and male: the Titan deities, 
The gods from Saturn sprung, and those whom Jove 
From subterraneous gloom releas’d to light, 
Terrible, strong, of force enormous ; burst 
A handred arms from all their shoulders hage : 
From all their shoulders fifty beads up sprang 
O’er limbs of sinewy mould. They then array’d 
Against the Titans in fell combat stood, 
And in their nervous grasp wielded aloft 
Precipitous rocks. On th’ other side alert 
The Titan phalanx clos’d : then hands of strength 
Join’d prowess, and display’d the works of war. 
Tremendous then th’ immeasurable sea 
Roar’d ; earth resounded : the wide heavens throughout 
Groan’d shattering : from its base Olympus vast 
Reel’d to the violence of gods: the shock 
Of deep concussion rock’d the dark abyss 
Remote of Tartarus: the shrilling din 
OF hollow tramplings, and strong battle-strokes, 
And measureless uproar of wild pursuit. 
So they reciprocal their weapons harl’d 
Groan-scattering ; and the shout of either host 
Burst in exhorting ardour to the stars 
Of heaven; with mighty war-ories either host 
Encountering clos’d. 

Nor longer then did Jove 
Curb his fall power ; but instant in bis soul 
There grew dilated strength, and it was filled 
With his omnipotence : at once he loos’d 
His whole of might, and put forth all the god. 
The vaulted sky, the mount Olympian, flashed 
With his continual presence : for he pass’d 
Incessant forth, and scattered fires on fires ; 
Harl’d from his hardy grasp the lightnings flew 
Reiterated swift; the whirling flash 
Cast sacred splendour, and the thunderbolt 
Fell: roar’d around the nurture-yielding earth 
In conflagration, for on every side 
The immensity of forests crackling blaz’d, 


Digitized by Google 


875 


. 880 


885 


890 


895 


900 


905 


910 


915 


920 


OF THE HINDUS. 


Yea, the broad earth burn'd red, the streams that mix 
With ocean, and the deserts of the sea. 

Round and around the Titan brood of earth 

Roll’d the hot vapour on its fiery surge ; 

The liquid heat air’s pure expanse divine 

Suffus’d: the radiance keen of quivering flame 

That shot from writhed lightnings, each dim orb, 
Strong though they were, intolerable smote, 

And scorched their blasted vision. Through the void 
Of Erebus, the preternatural glare 

Spread, mingling fire with darkness. But to see 
With human eye, and hear with ear of man 

Had been, as if midway the spacious heaven, 
Harling with earth shock’d —e’en as nether earth 
Crash’d from the centre, and the wreck of heaven 
Fell raining from high. So vast the din, 

When, gods encountering gods, the clang of arms 
Commingled, and the tamalt roar’d from heaven. 
Shrill rush’d the hollow winds, and rous’d throughoat 
A shaking, and a gathering dark of dust ; 

The crush of thunders and the glare of flames, 

The fiery darts of Jove: fall in the midst 

Of either host they swept the roaring sound 

Of tempest, and of shouting: mingled rose 

The din of dreadful battle. There stern strength 
Put forth the proof of prowess, till the fight 
Declin’d : but first in opposite array 

Full long they stood, and bore the brunt of war. 
Amid the foremost towering in the van 

The war unsated Gyges, Briareus, 

And Cottus bitterest conflict wag’d : for they 
Successive thrice a hundred rocks in air 

Harl’d from their sinewy grasp: with missile storm 
The Titan host o’ershadowing, them they drove 

All haughty as they were, with hands of strength, 
O’ercoming them beneath the expanse of earth, 

And bound with galling chains ; so far beneath 

This earth, as earth is distant from the sky : 

So deep the space to darksome Tartarus.” - 


Elton’s Translation, p. 108 to 114. 


39 


925 


9380 


935 


940 


945 


950 


956 


960 


Thus far Hesiod’s description of the War between 
the Gods and the Giants in the West. 
a description of the battle between Jupiter and 
Typheeus, or the moon’s ascending node personified ; 
but as it contains no fact to point out the time, it 
would be useless to insert it here. 
other descriptions of this war, differing from each 


He also gives 


There are many 


Digitized by Google 


40 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


other, as well as the places in which it was supposed 
to have commenced and ended, each poet endea- 
vouring to transfer it to his own country. In some 
of these, we are told that the stars § and y of Cancer, 
called the Aselli, assisted Jupiter in his war with the 
Giants. This is a most material fact, because it 
serves to point out the time, independent of all other 
considerations. Hesiod notices the same thing, but 
in a very different manner: for, considering the in- 
consistency of two insignificant little asses assisting 
mighty Jove in his war with the Zitans, he meta- 
morphoses them with Presepe, into three mighty 
Giants, by the names of Briareus, Gyges, and Cottus. 
When the War between the Gods and the Giants 
was feigned to take place in India, 945 years B.C. 
the solstitial Colure cut the Lunar Asterism Aslesha 
in 3° 20’, and the opposite one Sravana in 10°; which 
Colure, therefore, divided the heavens in two equal 
portions, and formed the boundary between light and 
darkness at the moment of the autumnal equinox; 
the enlightened half belonging to the Gods, and the 
dark half to the Asuras, calledalso, from their mother, 
Danavas, and Daityas, the Titans of the west. At 
that period the stars 8, y, and Presepe, were in the 
dark half, or on the side of the Titans, as will be seen 
from their respective longitudes at the time, which 
were, 
y Cancri, 945 B.C. 2* 26° 40’ 14” 
6 Cancri, .. .. 2 27 «50 54 
o Presepe,(mean). 2 26 19 52 
Hence Hesiod, in alluding to the first War between 
the Gods and the Giants, that is to say, the one in 
India, poetically describes Cottus, Briareus, and 
Gyges, as bound with a chain of iron force, beneath 
the spacious ground, in the abyss where earth’s utmost 


Digitized by Google 


4 


OF THE HINDUS. 4l 


boundaries end, v. 822—830. The earth and sea 
were then supposed flat, and to extend to the starry 
heavens, in the same plane with the solstitial Colure, 
which was supposed to surround the earth as a wall 
of brass, leaving a passage to Zartarus in the begin- 
ning of Cancer, and another passage in the beginning 
of Capricorn—the former for the departed spirits to 
' enter, the other to admit of their ascending to heaven, 
when their period of punishment terminated. 

From the longitudes of the stars y and 8 of Can- 
cer in 945 B.C. it must be obvious that the war 
between Jupiter and the 7itans must have been sub- 
sequent to that period ; for these stars could not assist 
Jupiter until they were in the enlightened hemisphere, 
or at least in the boundary between light and dark- 
ness. Now the star 8 is the nearest to that boundary, 
being distant from the beginning of Cancer only 
2° 9’ 6": the annual rate of precession at that period 
was 49" 6; consequently the war in the West must 
have been at least 156 years later than the one in 
India. Weknow, however, from other circumstances, 
to be noticed hereafter, that it began about 33 years 
still later, that is to say, at the autumnal equinox 
in the year 756 B.C. and terminated at the era of 
Nabonassar. Ifthe star had been employed in the 
calculation, the time would come out considerably 
later, that is to say, 241 years; to which if we add 
‘the former 156 years, and take the mean, we get 193 
years ; therefore 945—193 =752 years, differing only 
four years from 756 B.C. To meet with extraordi- 
nary accuracy in ancient observations is not to be ex- 
pected; therefore what is here exhibited must be 
considered as sufficiently exact to indicate the time. 
But over and above all this, there is another circum- 
stance to be noticed, which is, that as the stars y and 

G 


Digitized by Google 


® 
44 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


or groupes, under regular figures, and assigning to 
each of the Lunar Mansions its proper deity, drawn 
from the theogony, which is supposed to have been 
then, for that and other purposes, invented. The 
western astronomers, having, after the lapse of some 
years, received information of what was done in the 
east, conceived the idea of following the example, 
and of forming the stars into constellations also. The 
period employed for that purpose, in imitation of 
the eastern astronomers, was likewise termed the 
War between the Gods and the Giants, which is said 
to have lasted something more than ten years. 

But though the astronomers of the west had thus 
far followed the notions of those of the east, and 
adopted their astronomy and rules, yet, in forming 
the constellations, they deviated from them both in 
their number and figures; and instead of dividing 
the zodiac into 27 or 28 constellations, as the Hin- 
dus had done, they adopted, in preference, as per- 
haps more convenient, a division of twelve, and in 
the forming of which they were guided by particular 
circumstances, some of which it may be proper to 
notice. 

I have already mentioned, that the earth in ancient 
times was considered as flat, and that it was sup- 
posed to be surrounded with the sea on all sides, till 
it touched the starry heavens in the solstitial points, 
which were supposed to be always in the same 
plane therewith. 

It is therefore obvious, that in these two opposite 
points, the constellations must be formed after such 
animals as were capable of existing in such a situa- 
tion. The only animals that could be supposed 
capable of existing both in the sea and air, must be 
amphibious: the astronomers, therefore, placed at. 


Digitized by Google 


LOR ADT YIM MY POY T 


7 MAG 


Google 


Digitized by 


ee Oe 


OF THE HINDUS. 45 


one point the constellation of a. Crab, and in the 
opposite one that of a Sea-goat, both amphibious, 
and capable.of living in or out of the sea. On the 
one. side, the top of the head of the goat is about 8° 


_above~ the water of the sea, and his chin nearly 


touching it; on the other side, the extremity of the 
head of the Crab is also about the same height above 
the sea;-and on a level with the sea, the star 3 in 
the breast of Cancer stands (see Plate IV.), to point 
out that the solstitial Colure then passed through it. 

* These two constellations being thus adjusted to 
their proper situations, all the rest would be easily 
settled, ‘from the fables or fictions on which they 
were respectively founded. Some of them appear 
to have been derived from the Hindus. Thus the 
Hindu Durga, and the Lion on. which she is feigned 
to ride, were converted into the constellations Virgo 
and Leo, which may be proved from the position. 
Durga, as I have already shown in the first section, 
was feigned to be born on the first of Aswina ; which 


- month, in the ancient astronomy of the Hindus, 


always coincided, from its beginning to end, with 
the sign of the ecliptic now called Virgo. The con- 
stellation Aries, and perhaps Capricorn, in part, I 
suspect to have been derived from the same source. 
Aries, or the Ram, is. to be found in the ensign of 
Agni, who, according to the fictions of the: Hindus, 
was feigned to ride that animal. The first half of 
A7yitika, over which Agni is considered as the pre- 
siding deity, corresponds with the end of the con- 
stellation Aries ; and therefore the positions may be 
sufficiently near to warrant the conclusion drawn in 


‘this respect. But in respect to Capricorn some 
. difficulty. arises, from having neither position nor 


time of the year to guide us in the investigation. In 


Digitized by Google 


46 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


the Hindu books, I mean the Puranas, time is per- 
sonified under various shapes and names. Siva, 
which is the greatest of all the Hindu deities, is time. 
He is feigned, in these books, as marrying Durga, 
the daughter of Daksha. Durga, as already noticed, 
was a personification of the year, in a feminine form; 
and it would appear that Daksha, her father, was 
Coelus, or the ecliptic, or, as some may have it, 
Atlas, as giving rise to all the Lunar Asterisms. 
Siva, his son-in-law, is said to have cut off his head, 
in consequence of not being invited to a feast given 
by Daksha; but repenting of the act, he restored 
him to life, and placed on him, in lieu of his own, 
the head of a goat. Here, to my apprehension, a 
change in the commencement of the sphere, or the 
year, is to be understood by the fiction, and that by 
such change, the year was made to commence from 
the winter solstice, which was in fact the case 118] 
B.C.; and therefore I think it is from this fiction 
that the idea of the constellation Capricorn first arose. 
In like manner, some of the other constellations may 
have been derived from Hindu fiction. The constel- 
lation Gemini may, I think, have arisen from the 
story of the Aswini Kumiras, though we cannot 
deduce direct proofs at this time. But whether 
these conjectures be correct or otherwise, it is of no 
material consequence, as the object in view is the 
determination of the time when the constellations 
were framed, and not the various sources, from which 
the ideas respecting their formation may have origi- 
nally sprung, which can only be of a secondary 
consideration. 

The constellations of the zodiac having been all 
framed and named according to the animals or things 
intended to be represented under such figures, the 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 47 


astronomers then divided the ecliptic into 12 parts of 
30 degrees each, commencing the division from the 
vernal equinoctial point To these divisions, which 
are called signs, they assigned the same names they 
had done to the constellations—the first sign, be- 
ginning at the vernal equinox, being called Aries: 
and as 8 Cancri was then in 3°, or the beginning of 
Cancer, the beginning of the sign Aries, or the equi- 
noctial Colure, was of course three signs more to 
the west of that star. 

The signs being named after the constellations, 
the next important step was to determine the year 
and the month, and to assign appropriate and signi- 
ficant names to the latter, corresponding either with 
the times of the year, or the signs of the ecliptic 
with which they then respectively coincided. If the 
year was precisely of the same length, as the space 
of time it would take the sun to pass, or run his 
annual course through the twelve signs, we should 
not be able to ascertain the time when they were 
first framed ; because the months would always coin- 
cide with the same signs with which they began : 
but if there was any deviation, however small, by 
the constant accumulation of that deviation, the time 
would become known when they were first framed 
and settled. The Egyptian year, of all others, there- 
fore, appears the best calculated for this purpose, 
and presents us with the requisite data. For, Ist, 
the Egyptian year contains only 365 days, and there- 
fore falls back, with respect to the signs of the 
ecliptic, at the rate of 14’ 35" 15 per annum; and, 
2ndly, the names of the Egyptian months are also 
their names of the signs with which, at the time of 
their formation, oer coincided, as will appear from 
the following table :. 


Digitized by Google 


48 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


Egyptian Months. Arabic Names. Signs. 
I 

1 Paophi, or Faopi Foaft Aries. 
2 Athir, or Athyr Thour Taurus. 
3 Chojac Chayk Gemini. 
4 Tybi Tab Cancer. 
5 Mechir Mecheri Leo. 
6 Phamenoth Famenoth Virgo. 
7 Parmuthi, or Farmuthi Farmout ‘ Equality. 
8 Pachon Buchomy Scorpio. 
9 Payni Fayni Sagittarius. 
10 Epiphi Hebhib Capricorn. 
11 Mesori Mesour Aquarius. 
12 Thoth Touhout Pisces. 


The month Thoth begins the Egyptian year; but 
the names are here arranged according to the signs 
of the ecliptic, beginning with Aries, as the first. 

Now the question is, when did the Egyptian 
months coincide with those signs of the ecliptic after 
which they are named? 

When Julius Cesar corrected the calendar, 44 
B.C. the 30th of Chojac coincided with the 1st Janu- 
ary at noon, at which time the 
Sun’s mean longitude was, meridian of 


Paris. , ‘ 9 8°34'34" 
Subtract motion for 89 days : 2 27 43 21 
Remain sun’s mean longitude Ist 

Paophi, (4th Oct. 45 B.C.) . 6 10 51 13 
Substract this from 12 signs, and we 

have. : 519 8 47 


the quantity by which the ‘month Paophi had re- 
trograded, or fallen back, in respect of the sign 
Aries, from whence it derived its name. Now di- 
viding this quantity by the annual variation or dif- 
ference, we have —7=;~" =702 years ; to which adding 
45 B.C. we get the 747th year B.C. for the time 
when the months and signs of the same name 
coincided, and which corresponds with the era of 
Nabonassar. The same thing might have been 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 49 


determined much easier from the Almagest ; for, at 
the era of Nabonassar, the 
‘Sun’s mean longitude on the first of 


Thoth at noon, was : : 11° 0°45’ 
To which add 30 days’ motion, ‘ 0 29 34 
We get. the sun’s mean longitude 1st 

Paophi at noon, : : 0 019 


And as Paophi in the Exyptian language, meant 
Aries, both the sign and the month then coincided, 
or nearly so, there being only a difference of 19 mi- 
nutes. The whole of this, therefore, proves beyond 
a doubt, that the constellations were formed and 
completely finished at the era of Nabonassar, and 
not before; and as this was the termination of the 
fictitious War between the Gods and the Giants in 
the West, neither Homer nor Hesiod could have 
written earlier than the year 746 B.C. 

Iam aware of the extreme difficulty of removing 
modern prejudices in favour of extraordinary anti- 
quity, however unfounded the same may be. It may 
be said, that Hesiod’s time must be known from the 
passage in his Works and Days, wherein he says: 

«¢ When sixty days have circled since the sun 
Tarned from his wintry tropic the star 


Arcturus, leaving ocean’s sacred flood, 
First whole apparent makes his evening rise.” 


It may also be said, that the time of the War be- 
tween the Gods and the Giants was considerably an- 
terior to the era of Nabonassar; for that the names 
of certain kings are mentioned in history, at or near 
whose time this war is supposed to have taken 
place: and that from the positions of the Colures in 
the sphere of Chiron, as mentioned by Eudoxes and 
others, the time of the Argonautic expedition, and of 
the formation of the constellations, must be placed 

H 


Digitized by Google 


50 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


several centuries before the era of Nabonassar: 
moreover, that the Egyptians and Chaldeans received 
their astronomy from Abraham, and were therefore. 
possessed of that science long before the year 746 
B.C. and even immensely long before the Hindus 
had any knowledge of it, if we are to place any 
credit in the supposed antiquity of the zodiacs at 
Tentyra or Dendera, which men of science have 
made out to be about 15,000 years old. 

I am perfectly aware of all these objections, likely 
to be made by persons who never gave themselves 
the trouble for a single moment to investigate the 
matter; but when all the circumstances and real 
facts are carefully and coolly examined without pre- 
judice, the whole of such objections will, I am per- 
suaded, fall to the ground, as they will be found to 
rest either on misconception, or on the stories of the 
- priests and poets of antiquity, who framed them on 
purpose to answer their own views, as I shall now 
endeavour to point out. — 

First.—With respect to Hesiod, it is uncertain 
whether the rising of the star Arcturus meant the 
whole constellation, or the single star. It is also 
uncertain whether this rising was observed in He- 
siod’s own country, or even in Hesiod’s time; par- 
ticulars absolutely necessary towards making a just 
calculation. Moreover, the ancients were not very 
accurate in their observations of the solstices, which, 
in many instances, might differ a whole day or more 
from the truth, and thereby make a difference of up- 
wards of 70 years in the result. Besides ail these, 
it appears to have been the practice for the ancients 
to have copied from each other, without any regard 
to the latitudes of places, and to continue to express, 
or mention the times of the risings and settings of 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 51 


the stars that took place some centuries before 
them, as if actually occurring in their own times. 
Hesiod makes the acronycal rising of Arcturus sixty 
days after the winter solstice: Pliny, in particular, 
says the same. How can we then be certain but 
that Hesiod may have borrowed it also from some 
one before him? Herodotus, who was born B.C. 484, 
places Hesiod and Homer 400 years before his own 
time. But this, as well as what is said by others, 
and in the Chronicle of the Marbles, amount to 
nothing more than mere assertions without proof ; 
nor can they stand a single moment opposed to the 
astronomical facts above mentioned, coupled with 
those yet to be noticed. 

Secondly.—With respect to the War between the 
Gods and Giants, it is very easy to see the reason of 
its being placed some centuries farther back into an- 
tiquity than the real time of it. Were those who 
wrote first on this fictitious war, to state that it oc- 
curred between the years 756 and 746 B.C. which 
was the real time of it, they would be called im- 
postors, because all others living at that period, 
would also be able to see it, as well as the writers 
themselves, if it really had taken place. To avoid, 
therefore, this dilemma, they found it necessary to 
throw it back into antiquity, out of the reach of the 
memory of any one then living, by which means 
they were enabled to establish it without fear of 
being contradicted, and to introduce into their re- 
ligions, under the venerable appearance and sanction 
of antiquity, the idea of a place of punishment for 
the wicked, under the name of Jartarus. 

Thirdly.—With respect to the positions of the 
Colures at the Argonautic expedition, we are in 
formed by Eudoxes and others, that the solstitial 


Digitized by Google 


52 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


Colure cut the star § Cancri, called the southern 
Asellus; consequently that star’s longitude from the 
vernal equinoctial point, or beginning of the sign 
Aries, was then exactly three signs. In A. D. 1690, 
the longitude of the same star by the Brit. Cata- 
logue was 4' 4°23'40". The difference between the 
two longitudes was therefore 1' 4° 23’ 40’. Re- 
ducing this to time, at the rate of 1° in 72 years, we 
get 2476 years, from which deducting 1690, we have 
786 years before Christ, which might be considered 
as sufficiently near the truth. But to be still more 
accurate, let us take the middle point, or 1238 years 
before A. D. 1690, it will be A.D. 452. The pre- 
cession, in the first century of the Christian era, was 
1° 23’ 6" 4, and increased at the rate of about 2” 27 
each century: therefore, 2’. 27 x4=9" .08, to which 
add 1° 23’ 6" 4, the sum is 1° 23’ 15" 48, the preces- 
sion for the fifth century of the Christian era. Now 
as 1° 23’ 15" 48 is to 100 years, so 34° 40’, the whole 
precession, to 2478 years; from which taking 1690, 
leaves 788 B.C. for the time of the feigned Argonau- 
tic expedition. But the periods of the formation of 
the constellations, of the War between the Gods and 
the Giants, and of the Argonautic expedition, being 
all the same, and having reference to the time be- . 
tween the autumnal equinor in the year 756, and the 
entrance of the sun into Pisces in746 B.C., the above 
result differs from the truth only about 32 years ; 
which is as near as can be expected from the observ- 
ations of the ancients. The Argonautic expedition 
being, like the War between the Gods and the Giants, 
a mere fiction, it became, therefore, equally necessary 
to throw the supposed time of it back into antiquity, 
that the authenticity of the fabulous facts on which it 
was founded might not be controverted or overturned. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. . 53 


The position of the star 8 Cancri, at the time of the 
. War between the Gods and the Gis. and at the 
Argonautic expedition, being exactly the same, that 
is to say, in the beginning of the sign Cancer, shows, 
that the time must be the same, and that the one 
fact corroborates the other, in so far as time is con- 
cerned. 

Lastly. 2 Finn all the facts thus exhibited, it ap- 
pears sufficiently obvious, notwithstanding all that 
has been urged by writers on the supposed great an- 
tiquity of astronomy in Egypt and Chaldea, that, in 
reality, they had none before the era of Nabonassar, 
and that the whole of their pretensions were mere 
fictions, set up on purpose to conceal the source 
from whence they received it, as well as the time of 
its introduction ; anxious to make themselves appear 
to be, not only the most ancient people on the face 
of the earth, but the first also in astronomy and 
other sciences. If, however, any other evidence be 
thought necessary to show that they were not so, we 
-have the testimony of both Hipparchus and Ptolemy, 
who, after very diligent search, met with no observ- 
ations made at Babylon before the time of Nabo- 
nassar. Epigenes speaks of Babylonian observations 
for the space of 720 years. Berosus allows them to 
have been made 480 years before his time, which 
carries them back to the year 746 B.C. We have, 
therefore, the most direct and positive proofs that 
could be given, that the Chaldeans and Egyptians 
had no astronomy, till they received it from India 
about the time above mentioned; and that it was 
then, and not before, that they were enabled to form 
the constellations, from the information and assist- - 
ance they derived from the same source. It was not 
from Abraham they received their astronomy, as pre- 


Digitized by Google 


54 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


tended, for the purpose of concealment, but from a 
Brahman, or the Brahmans: and though the word 
or name Abraham, might possibly arise by corrup- 
tion, from pronouncing the name Brahman, yet I am 
disposed to think the corruption intentional. 

But, should the whole of what is shown above, be 
deemed not sufficiently accurate, we have another 
fact of a still more decisive nature, which, while it 
serves to point out the time with the utmost preci- 
sion, other circumstances connected with it, will be 
found to form the basis of an immense number of 
fictions, framed for the purpose of imposing on man- 
kind. The fact that I allude to here is the eclipse of 
the sun, at the ascending node, which took place dur- 
ing the War between the Gods and the Giants in the 
West. Hesiod notices this eclipse under the fiction 
of the battle between Jupiter and Typheus, or Ty- 
phon, which I mentioned in a former place: but he 
cautiously avoids saying any thing that could point 
out the time of it. He makes Jupiter to conquer 
him, who ‘‘ down wide hell’s abyss his victim hurl’d, 
in bitterness of soul.” Others say, that the sun and 
moon chased Typhon till he was drowned in’ the 
Thracian sea, or, as others have it, till he was buried 
under Mount tna: but all these lead to no conclu- 
sion as to the time. The Egyptians, however, have 
not acted with the same caution; for, in alluding to 
this event, they say that Typhon put Osiris (the sun) 
into a chest, on the 17th day of Athyr, which there- 
fore serves as a clue to discover the actual time of 
the eclipse. But, in order to limit our enquiries 
within proper or reasonable bounds, I have already 
shown, from other circumstances, that the War be- 
tween the Gods and the Giants was from the autum- 
nal equinov in the year 756 B.C. to the entrance of 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 55 


the sun into Pisces in the year 746 B.C. being ten 
years and five months: therefore, if this statement 
of the time be at all correct, the eclipse of the sun at 
the ascending node on the 17th day of the Egyptian 
month Athyr, must be found within that period. Be- 
ginning, therefore, our enquiry from the year 756 
B.C. we find, at last, that the very eclipse we are 
in search of, fell on the 17th day of the month Athyr, 
_ in the year751 B.C. being the sixth year of the War 
between the Gods and Giants, and therefore com- 
pletely proving all that has been already stated. 
The eclipse took place in the afternoon, and the sun 
set eclipsed in Egypt; in consequence of which the 
Egyptians represented it by the figure of a Hippopo- 
tamus, (a Typhonic emblem,) receiving the sun in his 
jaws at. setting in the western ocean. The eclipse 
must have been considerable, as the sum and moon at 
the time were very near the ascending node; but 
falling in the sacred period of the War between the 
Gods and the Giants, it could not be entered on record, 
like the subsequent eclipses after the era of Nabonas- 
sar, without exposing the whole imposition. The 
time was, therefore, kept a profound secret from all 
except the initiated and the priesthood, who had 
formed various festivals, on purpose to blind the po- 
pulace, as well as for their own benefit. 

Having thus far explained matters, we may now 
take a view of some of the other circumstances con- 
nected with this eclipse. 

The longitudes of the sun and moon at the time of 
this eclipse was Taurus, 15° 46’, or thereabouts, and 
therefore in or very near the middle of the sign. 
The day on which the eclipse fell was made the birth 
of Hermes, the son of Osiris and Maia, one of the 
daughters of Atlas; or, which is the same thing, the 


Digitized by Google 


56 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


birth of Mercury, the son of Jupiter and Maia; which 
day, according to the correction of the calendar by 
Julius Cesar, in the year 44 B.C. was the fifteenth 
of the month now called May; so named, it is, sup- 
posed, after the same Maia; and in consequence of 
which, the fifteenth of that month was always held 
sacred to Mercury in the Julian calendar. 

Mercury, or Hermes, was considered by the an- 
cients as emblematic of the year: hence we find the 
books of Hermes, as mentioned by some writers, as 
amounting to 360,00, or the number of degrees 
which the sun passes through in one year, multiplied 
by 100; or, as others have it, 365,24, being the num- 
ber of days, &c. in the year, multiplied by 100: 
from which we gather, that the ancient tropical year 
of the Egyptians was 365 days 5 hours 45 minutes 
and 36 seconds, differing from the Julian, exactly: 
one day in 100 years; which difference, in the time 
of Julius Cesar, reckoning from the year of the eclipse 
751 B.C. was upwards of 7 days: therefore, in or- 
der to make allowance for this difference, and to 
make his year correspond with the Chaldean reckon- 
ing, he was obliged to change the Nuwmaen year into 
another form, making the 15th* of October, in Numa’s 
year, to be the Ist of January in his own; so that 
the birth of Mercury fell on the fifteenth of May, the 
day on which the eclipse occurred. 


MYTHOLOGICAL REMARKS. 


From the circumstance of Hermes being consi- 
dered the same as the year, he was called the great- 


* See this matter more fully explained in my translations of two Hisreeyeie 
Calendars, (found at Dendera in Egypt,) at the end of this work. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 57 


est of chemists; for time reduces all things to their 
original states; compounds and decompounds bo- 
dies; converts earths into stones, and stones into 
earth ; forming continual changes in every thing that 
exists: hence the science of chemistry was called 
the Hermetic art. The name Hermes we find also 
often united with others, forming thereby compounds 
generally expressive of the month, or sign, or other cir- 
cumstance from which the year commenced : thus— 
Hermanubis, the year, commencing from the rising 
of the dogstar :—Hermaphrodite, the year, com- 
mencing from the first of April, from Venus presiding 
over that month, &c. Anubis was called sometimes 
the year, and marked the different seasons; but it 
seems the ancients had ascribed different meanings 
to Anubis, though all apparently expressive of cer- 
tain points of time. He was called Anubis, or the 
watchful dog, that gave notice of the rising lumina- 
ries; he was, therefore, by some considered as the 
circle of the horizon; but this could only be at the 
moment of twilight. Anubis, considered as the year, 
had also the same offices assigned to him as Mercury 
had, such as being secretary to the gods, and record- 
ing all the events of:a man’s life, year by year, to 
appear for or against him at his death. 

In different parts of Egypt, the year had different 
commencements. This was done, no doubt, to mul- 
tiply festivals, and, consequently, emoluments to the 
priests. In some places, the year began on the en- 
trance of the sun into the sign Zaurus ; at which time 
the Bull, Apis, was worshipped with great expense 
and ceremony. In other places, the year began at 
the winter solstice, and the Goat was worshipped ; 
from which circumstance the people were called 
Mendesians: and in other places, the year began on 

1 


Digitized by Google 


58 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


the sun entering Aries; and that luminary was then 
worshipped under the name of Jupiter Ammon, and 
from whence the worshippers were called Ammonians. 

In noticing the year under the names of Hermes, 
the son of Osiris and Maia, and Mercury, the son of 
Jupiter and Maia, we should not omit that of Buddha, 
the son of Maya of the Hindus. This name is only 
a mere translation of Mercury, the son of Maia, 
Buddha and Mercury being the same: therefore 
Buddha, the son of Maya of the Hindus, is nothing 
more or less than the year, which is even sufficiently 
shown, by other names assigned to him in the Hindu 
books. From this circumstance, it may be plainly 
perceived, that though the West had borrowed all its 
knowledge in astronomy from the Hindus, yet that 
the latter had, in their turn, borrowed from the West. 
This may be still further seen by the fiction of the 
Hindu Mars, usually called Kartikeya, being born of 
the Pleiades, and thence called Bahuleya, and, there- 
fore, the same as Mercury, or Hermes. The great- 
est of all the Hindu gods is Siva, or time, and his 
image is generally accompanied with that of a Bull, 
to indicate the commencement of the year from the 
sign Taurus ; and therefore, must have a reference to 
the ancient commencement of the year in the West, 
from the beginning of Zaurus, or first of May ; for 
there is no record or fact, from which we could draw 
a conclusion that the Hindu year ever began from 
Taurus. All these circumstances taken together, I 
think, sufficiently prove that a communication did 
exist at some former period, between the East and the 
West, though that period cannot be now ascertained. 
Woden, of the north of Europe, from his being sup- 
posed to have given his name to the fourth day of 
the week, as well as his presiding over battles, makes 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 59 


him the same as the Buddha and Mars (or Kartikeya) 
of the Hindus, both of which meant the year. - 
Of all the gods of the ancients, none appear to 
have been personified into so many different shapes, 
or worshipped under so many different names, as the 
year, or time. It was made the foundation of the 
greatest part of their fictions, varying the personifi- 
cations and worships, according to the purpose in- 
tended, the better to multiply the emoluments of 
the priests. In general, however, the personifications 
of time, or of the year, had their insignia, or charac- 
teristic symbols attached, by which they were known: 
this symbol was generally the Serpent, which of it- 
self was known and understood to signify the year : 
sometimes wings were added, which had the same 
signification ; for it is a common saying, that time 
hath wings. Hence the personification of the year, 
under the figure and name of Mercury, with his ca- 
duceus and wings, —also under the figure of Aiscula- 
pius, with a serpent in his hand, (which some, with- 
out just grounds, have taken to be a leech.) Among 
the Romans, the first of January, as the first of the 
year, was sacred to him. He was invoked and wor- 
shipped by the sick, or others for them; because, 
time and patience, are said to cure all diseases. Me- 
dusa, or rather Medusa’s head, with serpents instead 
of hair, I have no doubt, also meant time; and the 
meaning of the fiction relating to her power of de- 
struction, seems to have been this, that he who has 
seen her, must necessarily perish; that is to say, all 
who have been brought into existence must die. All 
the Hindu deities which have any relation to time, or 
the year, are in general accompanied with the sym- 
bolic serpent, as may be seen in sculptures and 


Digitized by Google 


60 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


drawings of Siva, Krishna, and others. The figure 
of Siva is hardly ever seen without the Serpent. But 
it has also another distinguishing mark, which, as it 
serves to explain some of the customs of the Egyp- 
tians, ought not to be passed over. That is, the river 
Ganges is represented as springing from the head of 
Siva, the meaning of which is this: the celestial 
Ganges, or the ecliptic, begins at the commencement 
of the year, which is the head of time, and, there- 
fore, represented as springing from the head of Siva. 
The ecliptic, in ancient Hindu books, is called the 
celestial Ganges; and this may serve to show, that 
in ancient times, the ecliptic was called a river. In 
Egypt, it was called the celestial Nile ; and the gods 
and planets were therefore feigned to move along it 
in boats. At Babylon, it was called the Euphrates ; 
and so on of other places. 

It may be objected and said, that the serpent is 
an emblem of wisdom: true; but what is wisdom 
itself derived from but from years? A child just 
born cannot be said to have wisdom, nor can it be 
obtained but by the progress of time: hence, making 
the serpent as the emblem of wisdom, is only taking 
it at a second hand, that is, metaphorically derived 
from time. This may be seen in the Hindu name for 
Mercury, the son of Maia, or the year, which they 
call Buddha, the son of Maya; thereby calling the 
year by the name wise, or wisdom, and consequently 
inferring wisdom as coming from years, the symbol 
of which isaserpent. We may also see, that Buddha, 
the son of Maya, or the year, being the founder of a 
religious sect in India, is a mere fiction, and that we 
are rather to take it in a figurative sense; that is to 
say, that time has produced this religion, and that the 


Digitized by Goegle 


OF THE HINDUS. 6] 


person or persons, who may have first promulgated 
it, are now unknown. The epoch of Buddha is ge- 
nerally referred to the year 540 or 542 B.C. which 
probably may have been the period at which the re- 
ligion of the Bhuddhists was first introduced into dif- 
ferent parts of India and China. Time, in fact, may 
be considered as the author of every thing; for every 
thing is produced and perfected in time. Time is 
considered by the Hindus under three distinct points 
of view: first, as creating or producing; second, as 
preserving that which has been produced; and, third, 
as destroying ultimately that which has been pre- 
served. These distinctions form the Hindu triad, 
under the names of Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva. All 
the offsprings of these, the feigned Avatars of Vishnu, 
so called, as Buddha, Krishna, &c. are, therefore, 
in fact, only certain portions of time. Krishna has 
been considered by some as the sun: but this opi- 
nion is not correctly founded ; for Vishnu being time, 
and as such always accompanied by serpents, the 
common symbol of time, no portion of him can be 
taken as the suz.* Krishna is considered by some, 
the same as the Apollo of the west: this, however, 


© One of the mythological names of the sus is, I believe, Garuda, the bird of 
Vishou. Some have mistaken this for a real bird, as the eagle, &c. ; bat if his de- 
scription had been particularly attended to, this, I think, could not happen. He is 
called by a variety of names, descriptive of what he is: such as, that he is brother 
of Aruna, or the dawn, and born after him ; that he is of a beautifal plumage, and 
his body of a golden colour; and that he is the carrier of Vislnu ; and that he is 
the destroyer of serpents, &c. All these appear to have a reference to the sun; for 
he rises after the dawn, is of a golden colour, and his rays are the beaatifal plumage. 
He is the carrier of Visbnu, because the sen by his revolation carries time along with 
him. He destroys serpents, because the serpent is an emblem of the year; and 
therefore every past revolution of the sun is a year lost, or, metaphorically, a ser- 
pent destroyed ; for time that is past cannot be recovered. The Eagle of Jupiter 
may also, perhaps, be considered in the same light. 


Digitized by Google 


62 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


can only be in respect of his qualities; for Krishna 
is a modern invention to serve a particular purpose. 
Apollo certainly is time personified, as well as 
Krishna, which may be proved by examining into his 
parentage, his inventions and discoveries. Jupiter 
and Latona are said to be his parents. Under the 
name of Orus, he was the offspring of Osiris and Isis 
in Egypt: in both cases, his father was probably the 
sun under a metaphorical name; and his mother, no 
doubt, though under different names, meant time : 
for Diodorus Siculus says, that Isis invented the 
practice of medicine, and taught the art to her son 
Orus; whence we must naturally conclude that, Isis, 
and perhaps Latona, meant time taken generally ; 
and that from the union of ¢ime with the sun, sprung 
Apollo, or the year. Hence, like Mercury, Hermes, 
fEsculapius, and other personifications of the year, 
he is said to have invented eloquence, music, medi- 
cine, and poetry, qualifications not applicable to the 
sun, but to time, as producing all things, according 
to the notions of the ancients, as well as of some of 
the moderns. Latona was the daughter of Saturn, 
or of time, and therefore must be considered as time, 
as well as Isis, who was also considered the same 
as Ceres, Juno, Luna, Terra, Minerva, Proserpine, 
Thetis, Cybele, Venus, Diana, Bellona, Hecate, 
Rhamnusia, and all the goddesses. From the whole 
of what is above shown, it is evident, that neither 
the sun nor moon, by whatever mythological names 
they may be called, can ever be considered as in- 
ventors of arts, letters, sciences, &c. except in me- 
taphorical language; and then it is not the sun or 
moon that is to be understood, but their revolutions, 
or the time in which they are mide, as years, lun- 
ations, &c. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. - 63 


A great deal more might be said in explanation of 
mythological subjects; but as I have already ex- 
tended this article far beyond what I originally in- 
tended, I shall therefore now close it, and proceed 
to matters of more importance. 


Digitized by Google 


64 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


SECTION IV. 


FROM 698 TO 204 B.C. 


Commencement of the third Astronomical Period— The Precession then— The 
term Rishis in Magha explained— Parasara and Garga cited — The Heliacal 
rising of Canopus in the time of Parasara— The same computed — Positions 
of the Planets when Garga wrote—The time deduced—The real epoch of 
Yudhisthira, 2526 of the Kaliyuga, perverted by the Moderns — The fourth 
Astronomical Period. 

WE now come down to the third astronomical period, 

which, by the table at page 34, began in the year 

698 B.C. on the first of the month Margasirsha ; 

which name was now changed into that of Agrahayana, 

from its commencing the year. 

At the commencement of this period, the preces- 
sion amounted to 6° 40 ; for all the months, seasons, 
Colures, and moveable, or tropical Lunar Mansions, 
depending thereon, were now found to have receded, 
or fallen back, in respect of the positions they had 
in 1192 B.C. by that quantity; and the beginning 
of the fixed Lunar Asterism Magha was found in the 
middle of the tropical, or moveable Magha, making 
a difference of 6° 40' in 494 years and two months. 
To say that the beginning of Magha fell into the 
middle of Magha, would, to those who might be un- 
acquainted with the real nature of the case, appear 
an inconsistency, though in fact there was none; for 
the same expression, or a similar one, we now use 
in saying that Aries is got into Zaurus: meaning 
thereby, that the constellation Aries is got into the 
sign Taurus, which every one understands; and no 


Digitized by Google 


Cini Manuons oe 
Ckithis tn le bogs 
lhe middle, or 62 go! - 


L, Clark sou’ 
Lublished by Smith, Elder kel? Cornhill, London, L828. 


flale V. 
Lg CHMONA of lhe GG, UO, ». Menthe, Sis: and movealle or Lreprical = 
respect of thee ‘Slaw or fewed Lunar Astorismd. ls the line of the e 
aera Vie the Sunar Yoterinn . Maghd, culting lhe Sagpical Magha Zo 0 


OF THE HINDUS. 65 


doubt every one understood the meaning of the other 
at the time inthe same way. But to do away every 
appearance, of inconsistency, the astronomers of that 
period invented a term to answer the same purpose, 
and for showing the quantity of the precession. 
This was by assuming an imaginary line, or great 
circle, passing through the poles of the ecliptic and 
the beginning of the fixed Magha; which circle was 
supposed to cut some of the stars in the Great Bear, 
which, by calculation, seems to have been the star f. 
The seven stars in the Great Bear being called the 
‘Rishis, the circle so assumed was called the line of 
the Rishis ; and being invariably fixed to the begin- 
ning of the Lunar Asterism Magha, the precession 
would be noted by stating the degree, &c. of any 
moveable Lunar Mansion, cut by that fixed line, or 
circle, as an index. Thus, in the case above, where 
the beginning of the Lunar Asterism Maghda coin- 
cided with the middle of the moveable mansion 
Magha, it would be expressed by saying, that the 
Rishis got into 6° 40' of Magha, that is, the line of 
the Rishis cut the moveable mansion Magha in 
6° 40’, thereby avoiding the supposed inconsistency . 
that would arise in saying that one Lunar Mansion 
got into another, or that one part of the same mansion 
by name, got into a different one; which simple 
explanation brings us to the following one, respect- 
ing a passage in Parasara, and which has greatly 
puzzled, or seemed to puzzle many of the moderns. 
At the commencement of the first astronomical 
period, the fixed Lunar Asterisms, and the moveable 
ones of the same name, then coincided, (see Plate IT.) 
and the positions of the Colures were therefore the 
same in both; that is to say, the winter solstitial point 
was in the beginning of both the fixed and moveable 
K 


Digitized by Google 


e 


66 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


mansions Sravisht'ha, with which the beginning of 
the month Maghd, and that of the season of Sisira 
also coincided. The summer solstitial point was 
in the middle of the fixed and moveable Lunar 
Mansions As/lesha, with which point the beginning 
of the Solar month Savana, and that of the season 
of Varsha, also coincided. The autumal equinoctial 
point was in 3° 20’ of the fixed and moveable Lunar 
Mansion Visakha, with which point the beginning 
of the solar month Kartika, and the middle-of the 
season Sarada, coincided. And the vernal equinoc- 
tial point was in 10° of the fixed and moveable 
Lunar Mansions Bharani, with which point the 
beginning of the solar month Vaisakha, and the 
middle of the season of Vasanta, coincided. Now, 
as the moveable Lunar Mansions, depending on the 
sun’s revolution to the tropics, with the Colures, 
months, and seasons, fell back together, and at the 
same rate of precession, (3° 20’ in 247 years and one 
month,) it would naturally follow, as a matter of 
course, that the positions of the Colures in the move- 
able Lunar Mansions, would still remain invariably 
the same, and at all times, as they were in the year 
1192 B.C. The following expression, therefore, 
of Parasara, who, it will be shown, flourished about 
575 years B.C. was perfectly correct and consistent. 
He says: <‘ When the sun having reached the end of 
Sravana in the northern path, or half of Ashlesha 
‘in the southern, he still advances, it is a cause of great 
fear.” And Garga, who was contemporary with 
Parasara, and wrote his Sanhita in the year 548 
B.C. says thus, to the same effect: “‘ When the sun 
returns, not having reached Dhanishta in the northern 
solstice, or not having reached Ashlesha in the south- 
ern, then let a man feel great apprehension of danger.” 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 67 


In these two passages there is nothing inconsistent ; 
for they are strictly conformable to the positions of 
the Colures, not only then but at all times, in the 
moveable Lunar Mansions, which alone are here 
meant, and not the fixed or sideral ones; there 
being no other mode in this case to distinguish 
between them, nor none necessary. The precession 
was well known in the time of Parasara and Garga, 
and for upwards of 500 years before them ; there- 
fore, they could not be understood as speaking of 
the fixed Lunar Asterisms. If an European.astro- 
nomer was now to say, “‘ If the sun, having reached 
the beginning of Cancer, still advances without return- 
ing great fear may be entertained,” no one could 
possibly misunderstand him—no one could say he 
meant the constellation Cancer: so it was the same 
in. the time of Parasara. These explanations are 
of the utmost importance, and should be particularly 
attended to, as they serve to show more clearly the 
impositions of the moderns, which will be noticed 
in their proper place. 

There: is another passage of Parasara, respecting 
the heliacal rising of Canopus in his time, which it is 
proper to notice here. He states, that ‘the star 
Agastya (or Canopus) rises heliacally when the sun 
enters the Lunar Asterism Hasta, and disappears or 
sets heliacally, when the sun is in Rohini.” 

As Parasara was contemporary with Yudhishthira, 
and the latter ascended the throne in the year 575 
B.C. we shall make the calculation for that year. 
The difference between the time of rising and setting 
of Canopus, points out the latitude of the place of 
observation to have been the same, or nearly the 
same as that of Delhi, which lies in latitude 28° 38° 
North. . 


Digitized by Google 


68 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


The longtitude of Canopus in A. D. 

1750 WAS. ceceeeeeeereeeeees 35 11° 30’ 40” 
Subtract precession for 2325 years. 

according to modern theory, .... 1 2 17 © 


Remain, .......006 2 9 18 40 
Subtract variation in longitade of the 
star, by reason of the change in the 
ecliptic*, ee ue 26 30 
Remain true longitude of Canopas 
A.D. 575 B.C. cc cece ceee noes —_——— 
Latitade of Canopus A. D.1750, .. 75 51 20 


28 8° 47’ 10” 


Add variation for the change in the 
eoliptic®,...cccceeeeesececess 17 12 


True Latitude of Canopus 575 B. C. 76 8 32 


From which data we now get the right ascension 
and declination of Canopus at that time by the fol- 
lowing proportions : 


i As radios sine ......cseesssseecevesccees 90° Of 0” 10,6000000 
Is to sine of the longitude of Canopus.....20- 68 47 10  9.9695259 
So cotangent of the latitude......seeeeeeee+ 76 8 32  9.3921570 
To cotangent of an Z....sssecccseceseees 72 2 55 9.3616829 
Subtract obliquity of the ecliptic 575 B.C... 23 46 46 
Leavessccsesccsccccccccccscccesecsesse 3 16 9 

2 As tadius Sine ....sccescescccscscccsesss 90 0 0 10.0000000 
To cosine of the longitude of Canopus ...... 68 47 10 9.6585293 
So cosine of the latitude of Canopus ........ 76 8 32  9.3793284 
To cosine Of ....secccsceccsecscccecccees 85 12 AL 89378577 

BS Asradius sine ......ccccscescsccsesveces 90 8 G6 10.0000000 
To COBINC se. cecccccseveccevceccsssscses 53 16 9 9.7767422 
So tangent of .....ssceeceeceececeveeses 85 1 AL 11.0605043 
To tangent of the right ascension of Canopus.. 81 43 25 10.8372465 


Then for the declination : 


A As radius sine.....cscccccseccscccercees 90° 0 0” 10.0000000 
To wine... cccecececcccesccccccscseeces 53 16 9 9.9038786 
Bo sine. cececccoccccccsoccecccescsecee 85 1 Al 9.9983628 
To sine of the declination of Canopus S...... 52 68 53 9.9022414 


Having thus obtained the right ascension and 
declination of Canopus 575 years B. C. we are now 


* These corrections might have been dispensed with, as the result would come 
out nearly the same without them. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 


69 


prepared to proceed in the calculation of the heliacal 


rising of that star at the period given. 


B 
as Pee | 
Let P be the pole of the equator. 
PZ=90°—28° 38’=61° 28'=ACS 

v C the equator. 


v D the ecliptic. 
S place of the star 


& As tangent of the colatitarde PZ=ACS .... 61° 22’ 


To tangent of the declination AS .......ee60 52 58 
So radius sine........cceseceee ecccsseee 90 OO 
To sine of the ascensional difference AC .... 46 23 
Add the right ascension, ....e.secccecees 81 438 
The sum is the oblique ascension 7 C...... 1238 #66 


the Equator rising with Canopus......scos 


re x 
Ny 


10.2628291 
10.1225946 
10.0000000 

9.8597655 


or the point of 


; Digitized by Google 


70 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


Now to find the point D of the ecliptic rising with 
S and C: 

In the right-angled triangle + CB, right-angled 
at C, there is given +r C 128°6' 47" and the obliquity 
of the ecliptic C + B, to find + B:—+C being more - 
than a quadrant, take its complement to the next 
equinoctial point =180°—- 128° 6’ 47"=51° 53’ 13”, 
then in the supplementary triangle C=B we have 
C==51° 53' 13": the .+=23° 46’ 46’, the obliquity 
of the ecliptic, to find B=. 


6 As cosine of the obliquity of the ecliptic 2 23° 46’ 46” =9.9614706 
Is to radius Sine ....cccsceccccseccsons - 90 0 O 10. 
So tangent C % ...cccccccccceccsccs coos 51 53 13 10.1054247 
To tangent Bete... .cccsceccccescorveese 54 19 86 10.1439541 


Which taken from 180° leaves r B=125° 40’ 24", 
the point of the ecliptic B, or the longitude of that 
point of the equator C, which rises with Canopus. 


Now, the next portion of the ecliptic to be found 
is BD. 


7 Say as radius sine.....cccccscecescceesess 90° OY O” 10. 
To sine Ce. .ccsecccccccecoccvevccesees SL 53 13 9,8958613 
So tangent 2% wessscccscnscccccccccece 23 46 46 9.6430682 
To tangent BC,...ccccceccccceccccscccees 19 4 6 9.5380295 
8 And as radius sine ...... seccccccccseccee 90 O O 10. 
To BIN€ £ DX secececccccrsccccscscceeses 23 46 46 9.6055389 
So cosine C 2% ....ceeccccccscccesevecess SL 53 13 9.7904366 
To cosine CB .....scecvevcccecssscoee 75 35 21 9.3959755 
9 And as radius sine ......sceececcsccssees 90 0 O 10. 
Is to cosine BC ..cssecccccsevesceresees 19 4 46 9,9754623 
So tangent of the latitude of the place of : 
observation, .......00.064 ceeceeesesees 28 38 0 9.7371709 
To cotangent of an 4 which calle ........ 62 42 26 9.7126332 
Which taken from C B =75° 35’ 21” leaves 12 52 656 which call Sf 
10 As cosine 7 f.csocccccssncccccccccesess 12 52 55 9.9889296 
Is to cosine £ € ssccccesccsscccesscesese 62 42 26 9.6613749 
So tangent CB ....sscccsecccccccveseeece 19 4 46 9.5389246 
To tangent BD....scsccscccscecccsvececs 9 14 26 9.2113699 
To which adding T B....sseesecceseesees 125 40 24 
We have the longitade of the point D ...... 134 54 50 
with S and C, or the cosmical point. 


The next portion of the ecliptic to be found is 
DM depressed 10° below the horizon. 


coascendent 


Digitized by Google 


‘OF THE HINDUS. 71 


11 As radius sine ...ccessccccesccccccecoess 90° 0 0” 10. 
To cosine BD ...sccccsccccrcsccsscsesee 9 14 26 9.9943272 
Sotangent 2 f cccccsesesovecescccscesece 10 52 55 9,3592642 
To cotangent CD B ..ssccccccccsecccecsee 77 16 47 9.3535914 
12 As sine NDM=C DB.,. seccccccsesss 7% 16 47 9.9892080 
Is to sine MN ....... socevcceecess 10 O 0 9§.2396702 
So radius sine ....... Sais deve ns ‘Lececsseee 90 0 0 10, 
To sine DM wcscccercecssccccscccesceves LO 15 15 9.2504622 


Now the different portions of the ecliptic thus 
found, being added together, we haver B+BD + 
DM= vr M = 125° 40’ 24” + 9° 14’ 26” +10° 15’ 15" 
= 145° 10’ 5" = the sun’s longitude from the vernal 
equinoctial point, when the star Canopus rose 
heliacally at Delhi 575 years before the Christian 
era; and as the sun, at the time of the heliacal 
rising of Canopus, was, according to Parasara, in the 
beginning of the Lunar Asterism Hasta, the next 
thing we have to. ascertain is the longitude of the 
beginning of Hasta, reckoned from the beginning of 
Aries, or the vernal ae point, in the year 
575 B.C. 

For this purpose we make choice of the star Cor 
Leonis, whose fixed longitude is 9° in the Lunar 
Asterism Magha. : 


The longitude of this star in A. D.1750 from 


the beginning of Aries was .....scesesees 48 26° 21’ 12” 
Subtract its longitude in the Lunar Asterism 
Magha- sciccssavivisodeds santas eves 0 9 0 0 


Remain longitude of the beginning of Magha i in 

A.D. 1750, cccccccccccecsccceccceseene 4 17 21 12, 
From the beginning of Magha to the beginning 

of Hasta, is just three Lunar Mansions of 


13° 20’ each ; therefore add .......+5 ~ 1 10 0 0 
The sum is the longitude of the beginning of 
Hasta in A.D.1750, ....sseeceeeeee eee 5 27 21 12 


Sabtract from this the precession for 2325 years, 
(see before,) ...scccecscsececceccssvece 1 2 17 O 
Leaves longitude of the beginning of Husta 575 


years B.C. ..seversscccccceces Q..c00. 4 25 A 12 
Sun’s longitude at the time of the heliacal rising = 
of Canopus 575 B.C. .ccececeseesens oo 4 25 10, 5 


The difference is only ....ececcceseesseoee O89 G6 5 53 


Digitized by Google 


72 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


Which I think is a sufficient proof of the accuracy of 
the observation of Parasara on the heliacal rising of 
Canopus. If the place of observation was a few 
miles more to the southward of Delhi, which is ge- 
nerally supposed to have been the case, and at a 
place called Hastina-pura, the ancient seat of go- 
vernment in the time of Yudhisht’hira, then the 
agreement of the observation with the result of cal- 
culation would be still more perfect. 

We have now to notice Garga, an ancient astrono- 
mer that was contemporary with Parisara and Yud- 
hisht’hira. He states the positions of the sun, moon, 
and planets, at the commencement of the year 
(Ist Agrahdyana), at sunrise, as follows: 

The sun he states to be then in Anuradha, 


The moon ; ; in Rohini, 
Jupiter ; : ; in Pushya, 
Mercury. ; ‘ in Satabhisha, 
Mars . : ; ‘ in Mula, 
Venus . ; in Kritika. 


These positions, therefore, refer us to the 29th of 
October, in the year 548 B.C. the time when Garga 
wrote his Sanhita. 

The facts we have thus exhibited prove decidedly, 
and beyond the possibility of doubt, the time in 
which Parasara, Yudhisht’hira, and Garga lived, 
- they being contemporaries. I have been more par- 
ticular on this head than perhaps was necessary ; 
but my reason for it was, to show the falsehood and 
impositions of certain modern Hindu writers, who 
have, through sophistry and low cunning, endea- 
voured to destroy the epoch of Yudhisht'hira (2526 
of the Kaliyuga of the modern astronomers), and to 
throw back his time to a very remote antiquity ; 
some placing him 2448 years before the Christian 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 73 


era, while others, more bold, even go so far as 3100 
years before that period. The impositions here al- 
luded to, and the methods employed, will be more 
fully explained when we come down to the times of 
Aryabhatta, Varaha Mihera, and others. 

The next astronomical period (the 4th) began on 
27th of November 451 B.C. when the Hindu year 
commenced with the month Pausha, and the Lunar 
Asterism Purvashadha. In this period I have met 
with no observations worth mentioning, except one 
near the close of it in 215 B.C. when it was found, 
that at the winter solstice, or beginning of the solar 

- month of Magha, the sun and moon were in conjunc- 
tion on Sunday, at sunrise, in the beginning of the 
Lunar Asterism Sravana. This observation was the 
foundation of the festival called the Ardha Udaya, 
which is still kept up with great pomp and cere- 
mony, though, strictly speaking, it cannot now take 
place under all the same circumstances, on account - 
of the changes that have taken place by the preces- 
sion of the equinoxes. 


Digitized by Google 


74 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


SECTION V. 


FROM 204 B.C. TO A.D. 538. 


Commencement of the fifth Astronomical Period — Astronomy further improved 
— More accurate Tables formed, and Equations introduced — The Hindu 
History divided into four Periods, and the Commencement of each settled 
astronomically — Tables of the four Ages, and their respective Years of Com- 
mencement, with the Errors in the Tables then used. 


We now come down to the beginning of the 5th 
astronomical period, or 25th December 204 B.C. 
when the Hindu year began with the month of 
Magha, at the winter solstice, and in the first point 
of the Lunar Asterism Sravani: this is marked in 
the calendar with the word Makari Saptami, denot- 
ing, that the sun entered Capricorn on the 7th of the 
moon. Sometimes it is marked Bhaskara Saptami. 
The precession of the equinoxes now amounted to 
one whole Lunar Mansion, or 13° 20’, reckoning from 
the year 1192 B.C. when it was nothing; so that 
now the beginning of the fixed Lunar Asterism 
Magha, was in the beginning or first point of the 
moveable Lunar Mansion Purvaphalguni : or, in other 
words, the Rishis were in the beginning of Purva- 
phalguni: that is, the assumed fixed line already 
mentioned as cutting the beginning of the fixed 
Lunar Asterism JMJagha, and the star B of the Great 
Bear, did at this time cut the beginning of the move- 
_ able Lunar Mansion Purvaphalguni: so that the 

Moveable Lunar Mansions, the months, and the 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 75 


seasons, all had fallen back 13° 20' from the posi- 
tions they were in, 1192 B.C. in respect of the fixed 
stars. 

It appears that at, or about this period (204 B.C.), 
improvements were made in astronomy: new and 
more accurate tables of the planetary motions and 
positions were formed, and equations introduced. 
Beside these improvements, the Hindu history was 
divided into periods, for chronological purposes ; 
which periods, in order that they might never be 
lost, or, if lost or disputed, might, with the assist- 
ance of a few data, be again recovered, were settled 
and fixed by astronomical computations in the fol- 
lowing manner : — The years with which each period 
was to commence and end having been previously 
fixed on, the inventor then, by computation, deter- 
mines the month, and moon’s age, on the very day 
on which Jupiter is found to be in conjunction with 
the sun, in each of the years so fixed on; which 
being recorded in the calendar and other books, 
‘might at any time be referred to for clearing up any 
doubt, in case of necessity. 

It was from these conjunctions of the sun with Ju- 
piter, that the periods themselves were named Yugas, 
or conjunctions; and the order in which they were 
named was thus:—The first period immediately 

preceding the inventor, was called the first, or Kal 
Yuga; the second, or next, was called the Dwapar 
Yuga ; the third was called the Treta Yuga ; and the 
fourth, or furthest back from the author, was called 
the Krita Yuga, and with which the creation began. 
The end of the first period, called the Kali, was fixed 
by a conjunction of the sun, moon, and Jupiter, in the — 
-beginning of Cancer, on the 26th June, 299 B.C. 
This was called the Satya Yuga, or true conjunction, 


Digitized by Google 


76 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


and is the radical point from which the calculation 
proceeds. 

Having thus far explained the principles on which 
the four ages of the ancient Hindus were founded and 
settled, I shall now exhibit them complete, with all 
their dates, in the following table: 


Names and Order o' Moon’s Age and in the Hiar 
the Four Ages, Month. du Tables used. 


19th April 2352 B.C.) 3rd Tithi of Vaisakha, 
9th .. of Kartika, 
28th .. of Bhidra, 
15th ., of Magha, 
lst .. of Sravana, 


vita, or fourth 

eta, or third 28th Oot. 1528 
Dwdpar, or second |15th Sept. 901 .. 
Kali, or first 8th Feb. 6540 .. 
- ended 26th June 299 .. 


About 21° 46— | 
. 1 t 


The mean motion of Jupiter in the Hindu tables 
employed for calculating the conjunctions and set- 
tling the periods, appear to have been 10° 21'9" 54”, 
or nearly so, which being too great by about 38” 
would cause the error to increase continually the fur- 
ther we go back into antiquity, as exhibited in the 
last column, and from which a near conclusion can 
-be drawn as to the time the tables-were framed, from 
the decrease in the error. I fix them to the year 
204 B.C. because it was then the commencement 
of the astronomical period, at which the astronomers 
would naturally correct their table by new observa- 
‘tions. Moreover, it appears that the Hindu history, 
‘according to the above periods, so settled and ad- 
‘justed, was brought down, either by the inventor or 
‘some other person, to the year 7 B.C, and there 
‘terminated. 

‘It will naturally be observed, that the year of the 
Hindu creation, or beginning of the K7itz, corre- 
‘sponds exactly with the year of the Mosaic flood, 
which is a most remarkable circumstance, and points 
out the opinion of the Hindus at that period, (204 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 17 


' B.C.) in respect of the time of the creation. The 
year 2352 B.C. was a leap-year, and the 19th April 
fell on Sunday, eight days after the vernal equinox. 
Thus the periods of Hindu history stood in the year 
204 B.C.; but in the first century of the Christian era, 
it appears that they again changed the time of the 
creation, and carried it back to the autumnal equinox 
4225 B.C. The particular periods then employed, 
the astronomical method used for fixing them, and 
the probable cause of the change, will be explained 
when we come down to that period. 
The Hindus commence the reigns of their kings 
with the Zreta, which according to the table, began on 
the 28th of October, in the year 1528 B.C. common 
reckoning. Rama, whose birth we have already 
shown, from astronomical facts, to have been in the 
year 961 B.C. was the last prince that reigned in the 
Treta: and from the first, named Ikswaku, down to 
Rama, inclusive, there were about 56 reigns in the 
space or period of 627 years, which gives an average 
of about 11 and 1-6th years to a reign. The 7reta 
terminated in the year 901 B.C.; and as Rama was 
born 961 B.C. he must at the close of the period 
have been 60 years of age, if then living. The next 
period, the Dwapar, began in 901 B.C. and ended in 
540 B.C. and therefore lasted about 361 years, in 
which space there were thirty reigns, giving an 
average of about 12 years to a reign. The next 
period, the Kai, began in 540 B.C.: therefore Yud- 
hhisht/hira, whose time I have shown to have been 
575 B.C. was of course but 35 years before the be- 
ginning of the Kali Yuga. The Kali lasted from 540 
B.C. to 299 B.C.; but the reigns of the kings for 
that particular space of time are not distinguished 
from those that reigned after the period terminated, 


Digitized by Google 


78 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


for a reason that will be hereafter explained. This, 
however, cannot prevent us from discovering the real 
period to which the reigns extended, taking them at 
the average already found; which, taking the two 
periods 7reta and Dwapar together, gives an average 
of about 12 years toa reign. Now the number of 
princes in the solar line, that reigned after the com- 
mencement of the Kali, before that time became 
extinct, was 28; and 28 multiplied by 12, gives us - 
336 years for the period they reigned, which, being 
reckoned from the year 540 B.C. when the Kali 
began, will bring them down to the year 204 B.C. 
the very year at which the astronomical period com- 
menced, and when the periods of the four ages were 
invented, as above stated: but what is equally re- 
markable, is, that the solar line of princes, the lunar 
line of princes, and the line of Jarashanda, should all 
become then extinct at one and the same time, as if 
the history after this period, was discontinued from 
some particular cause. The duration of the Kal 
from 540 B.C. to 299 B.C. being 241 years, the 
number of reigns in that period, at 12 years to a 
reign, would be 20; and from the year 299 B.C. . 
down to 204 B.C. would be the eight remaining 
reigns, when the whole terminated. We may, from 
these circumstances, plainly perceive, that Vyasa, 
the son of Parasara, who lived 540 years B.C. was 
not the author of the ancient Hindu history, much 
less of its division into the periods above given, 
though pretended so to have been. Vyasa could 
have given a history only to his own time, if he gave 
any; which, however, is very much to be doubted, 
as we find many other assertions of the modern 
Hindus, not only totally void of truth, but of the 
slightest foundation. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 79 


We shall now proceed to the next astronomical 
period, or the sixth, which began on the 23rd 
January A.D. 44, when the Hindu year commenced 
with the month Phdlguna, on the 7th day of the 
moon, and with the Lunar Asterism Satabhisha. At 
the commencement of this period, observations were 
made, and the positions of the planets for that epoch, 
together with their mean motions, corrected, where 
necessary. 

Early in this period, that is to say, about the year 
A.D. 51, Christianity was preached in India by 
St.Thomas. This circumstance introduced new light 
into India, in respect of the history and opinions of 
the people of the west, concerning the time of the 
creation, in which the Hindus found they were far 
behind in point of antiquity; their account of the crea- 
tion going back only to the year 2352 B.C. which was 
the year of the Mosaic flood, and therefore would be 
considered as a modern people in respect of the rest 
of the world. To avoid this imputation, and to make 
the world believe they were the most ancient people 
on the face of the earth, they resolved to change the 
time of the creation, and carry it back to the year 
4225 B.C. thereby making it older than the Mosaic ac- 
count; and making it appear, by means of false history 
written on purpose, that all men sprang from them, 
But to give the whole the appearance of reality, they 
divided anew the Hindu history into other periods, 
carrying the first of them back to the autumnal 
equinox in the year 4225 B.C.: these periods they 
called Manwantaras, or patriarchal periods, and fixed 
the dates of their respective commencement by the 
computed conjunctions of Saturn with the sun, in the 
same manner as those of the four ages already given, 
were fixed by the conjunctions of Jupiter and the 


Digitized by Google 


80 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY 


sun. This, no doubt, was done with a view of 
making the world believe, that such conjunctions 
were noticed by the people who lived in the respec- 
tive periods; and therefore, might be considered as 
the real genuine and indisputable periods of history 
founded on actual observations. 
The following table contains these periods, with 

their respective dates of commencement, &c. 


ee 


Srd .. of Chaitra, 
8rd _.. of Bhadra, 
Oth .. of Phalguna, 
filth .. of Pausha, 
oe Of Ashadha,} 11 830 8 — 
»» of Magha, 

e» of Sravana, 
w+ Of Ashadha, 


Lith April 8358 .. 


eo 


The mean annual motion of Saturn was 0* 22° 14'2" 
48”, and the error in the mean annual motion =26’ +; 
therefore the year in which there would be no error 
in the position of Saturn, would be A.D. 64, shewing 
the time when this division of the Hindu history was 
invented. 

The introduction of this division into the Hindu 
history, occasioned no derangements in the times of 
the reigns of the princes of India by the former divi- 
sion: — for Ikswaku, the first king who began his 
reign at the commencement of the Zreta, 1528 years 
B.C. was transferred to the beginning of the seventh 
Marnwantara in the above, or 1528 B.C. which, there- 
fore, is the same time.* 


* Ikswaku, on being so transferred, was called the son of the seventh Menxz, who 
was feigned to be the offspring of the sun, which shows his origin to be fictitious ; 
and from this fiction arose the appellation of solar line, being applied to his posterity. 
The lunar line, on the other hand, was feigned to have sprang from Buddha, the son 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUs.. BE 


This division of the Hindu history was, however, 
doomed to be superseded by another about thé year 
A.D. 538, in which the creation was thrown back 
1972947101 years before the Christian era, arid the 
real Hindu history entirely changed, as will be no- 
ticed and explained in the second part, when the 
subject of the modern astronomy is introduced. 

The next astronomical period began in the year 
A D. 291, when the month Chdaitra began the year, 
with the Lunar Asterism U. Bhadrapada, and the 
month Sravana (which was the same as the sign of 
the ecliptic Cancer), began with the Lunar Asterism 
Pushya, that is, the beginning of Cancer and the be- 
ginning of Pushya then coincided. I mention this 
merely to show that the Ramayana called Valmika’s, 
could not be older than A. D. 292; but it might be 
a century, or even two later, the limit of the period 
in which it was written being from A.D. 292 to 
A.D. 538. 

I have not been able to ascertain with sufficient 
certainty, the time when the tropical signs were first 
introduced into India; but they were certainly in 
use when the author of the Ramayana wrote, though 
probably not long before: we.do not find the slightest - 
mention of them in the genuine works of Parasara or 
Garga, nor in fact in any real work of antiquity. 

There being no observations in this period, at least 
none on record worth mentioning, we therefore come 
down to the end of it, in A.D. 538, when the year, 


of Soma, or the moon, by the Lunar Asterism Rohini, which is, therefore, also ficti- 
tious. The birth of this Buddha I have shown, in the first section, to have been the 
17th April 1424 B.C.; consequently the solar line is older than the lunar by 104 
years. From these circumstances, I think it highly probable that the Arcadians were 
a colony from India that settled in a part of Greece in early times, to which they 
gave their name (which is Sanscrit, implying descendants of the sun); for they called 
themselves older than the moon. 


M 


Digitized by Google 


82 THE ANCIENT ASTRONOMY OF. THE HINDUS. 


according to the regular periods above given, began 
on the first of Vaisakha, which then coincided with 
the beginning of Aswin?, on the 7th day, or Tithi of 
the moon. This beginning of the year was desig- 
nated by the name Jahnu Saptami in the calendars 
and other books of the Hindus, as one of the names 
of the sun. This year, A.D. 538, terminates the 
ancient astronomy of the Hindus, and commences 
the new, or modern, to which we shall now proceed. 


Digitized by Google 


PART II. 
THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


OF 


THE HINDUS. 


- SECTION I. 


Commencement of the eighth Astronomical Period, the beginning of the Modern 
Astronomy— The Brahmins introduce new and enormous periods into their 
History — The means adopted on the occasion— The new periods explained — 
Sixed by Astronomical computations, the nature of which is explained at length 
'—The revolutions of the Planets determined, and adjusted to the system of 
' years so introduced — Method of determining the antiquity of the system, sup- 
. posing the same unknoton — The same by a Table of Errors continually decreas- 
‘ing down to the Epoch— The positions of the Stars given in Hindu Tables 
explained with a Diagram — Table of the Lunar Asterisms — The names of 
. the Signs Aries, Taurus, Sc, introduced from the West, and still used to repre- 
sent the signs as beginning from the vernal equinoctial point — Some of the 
impositions of modern Commentators and others noticed — The system intended 
as a blow against the Christians — The Avatars invented for the same purpose 
— Krishna the Avatar noticed — His nativity computed from the positions of 
the Planets at his birth, 


In the preceding pages, I have endeavoured to 
give a clear and concise view of the ancient astro- 
_ nomy of the Hindus, so far as the same was found 
to be connected with history, from the earliest dawn 
of its commencement, down to A. D. 538, which 
was the beginning of the eighth astronomical period. 

This epoch is one of the greatest importance, not. 
only in Hindu history, but also in astronomy, as it 
was now that means were adopted by.the Brahmins 
for completely doing away their ancient history, 
and introducing the periods now in use; by which 


Digitized by Google 


84 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


they threw back the creation to the immense distance 
of 1972947101 years before the Christian era; with 
a view, no doubt, to arrogate to themselves that 
they were the most ancient people on the face of 
the earth. 

The various means or contrivances that were 
adopted for this purpose will now be explained.— 
In the first place, they made choice of a period of 
4320000000 years, which they called the Kalpa.* 
This period they divided and subdivided into lesser 
periods, which, the better to answer their purpose, 
they called by the same names as the periods of the 
two former divisions of the Hindu history were 
designated, in order that they might be conceived to 
be the same. 

The Kalpa, or 4320000000 Years was divided into 
14 Manwantaras,t each consisting of 308448000 
years, with the addition of 1728000 years to make 
' up'the Kalpa. The Manwaniara they divided into 
71 Maha Yugas, or great ages of 4920000 years 

each, with the addition of 1728000 to make up the 
anwantara. The Maka Yuga, or great age, they 
divided into four others, viz. the Kali of 432000 


* Kalpa implies form. 

- + The division of their history iato Manwantaras, as formerly given, only consisted. 
of nine, the first of which began in the year 4225 B.C. at the antumnal equyihoy, and. 
the last terminated in the year A.D. 31; whereas they made their modern Kalpa, 
as above, to consist of fourteen Manwantaras, and therefore not the same number : 
this objection they foresaw, and, to obviate the force of it, added five nominal, or, 
spurious ones to the former nine, to make their number the same with the modern 
ones, and, to give them a better appearance, inserted their pretended dates in the 
calendar and other books, as in the following Table : 

The spurious Manwantaras added, 
10. Date, 15th of the moon of Ashad’ha, 


11... 15th of the moon of Kartika, 
12. .. 15th of the moon of Phalguna, 
13... 15th of the moon of Chaitra, 
14. ., 15th of the moon of Jyest/ha. - 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 85, 


years, the Dwapar of 864000 years, the Treta of 
1296000 years, and the Krita of 1728000 years; the 
four making up the number of years in the Maha 
Yuga, or great age=4320000 years: thus giving to 
these periods, for the sake of imposition, the same 
names they had done in the former divisions of 
their history. 

The Kalpa, being divided and subdivided into the 
periods above given, the next step was to fix the 
commencement of the Kalpa itself, and consequently 
the creation, which was assumed to have then taken 
place. 

For this purpose, it was resolved to frame an as- 
tronomical system, in which the planetary motions 
were to commence with the Ka/pa, and to make the 
computation of eclipses, and the positions of the 
planets, at all times, to depend on that circum- 
stance ; by which means an air of truth and reality 
would be given to the whole, in the same manner as 
if actual observations had been made at the beginning 
of the Kalpa, or. creation. In framing such a sys- 
tem, they resolved to adopt the sideral sphere and 
year, in place of the tropical, which till then had 
been in use; so that the beginnings of the months 
and years would always, for the future, remain fixed 
to the same points, in respect of the fixed stars, in 
which they then stood; and be also the same at the 
beginning of the Kalpa, or creation. Matters being 
thus far settled, the next step was to ascertain, by 
computation, a point of time from which the. calcu- 
lation of the length of the year and the mean motions 
of the planets should proceed, in order to determine 
the number of revolutions of each in the Kalpa, pre- 
paratory to their application to astronomical pur- 
poses. The only point of time they could find to 


Digitized by Google 


86 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


- answer this purpose was the 18th of February, in 
the year 1612 of the Julian period ; and this point 
they made the commencement of the Kali Yuga of 
the twenty-eighth Maha Yuga, of the seventh Man- 
wantara: from which we are now enabled to shew 
‘the number of years then elapsed of the Kalpa, or 
in other words, from the creation, according to this 
new system, as follow :— 


- Period of years at the beginning, called a Sandhi,=—...... 1,728,000 
Six Manwantaras complete, or 808448000 x6 ........6- 1,850,688,000 

" Twenty-seven Maha Yugas of the 7th Manwantara, or 
4320000 127 = .ccccccccrcnccccccavecscccssenee 116,640,000 
Krita of the 28th Maha Yuga, ..ccccscccccsecccscens 1,728,000 
" ‘Treta of the same, .scccccecccccecceccctceceecoece 1,296,000 
Dwapar of the same, ..ccsccrcscccevscccccssvrevece 864,000 


“To the beginning of the Kali Yuga, (or 18th February, 
IGIZ J.P.) arse ccvccccccccccccccvveccvcccvces 1,972,044,000 


- The point of time thus fixed on, was found by 
computation made backwards, which showed that 
the planets were then approximating to a mean con- 
junction in the beginning of the sideral sphere, com- 

_mencing with the Lunar Asterism Aswini; on which 
account it was made choice of as the point to pro- 
ceed from : for, had the approximation of the planets 
been in any other part of the heavens, it would not 
have answered their purpose; because their object 
was to assume the sun, moon, and all the planets, 
to be then in a line of mean conjunction in the begin- 
ning.of Aswini, or the sideral sphere, in order that 
from that assumption, as if it had been an actual 

- observation, they might determine the length of the 

year, and mean motions of the planets, sufficiently 
near the truth to answer their purpose: for, what- 

- ever errors there might be in such an assumption, 

the same being divided among the years elapsed 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 87 


when the system was framed, would appear so small 
as not to be worth notice. 

For the better understanding of this, it will be’ 
proper to give here the positions of the planets at 
the point fixed on, viz. on the 18th February, in the 
year 1612 of the Julian period, at sunrise, on the 
meridian of Lanka, or, more properly speaking, the 
meridian of Ujein, where this system was invented, 
and which is about 75° 50’ E. of Greenwich. 


MEAN PLACES OF THE PLANETS AT THE GIVEN TIME. 


European Sphere. Hindu Sphere. 
Sun, ........ 108 1° 15’ 48” » 1’ 28° 44’ 12” = 08 0° O 0” 
Moon, ...... 10 4 24 36 + 1 28 44 12 = OF 8 8 48 
Mercury,.... 8 28 36 49 + 1 28 44 12 = 10 27 21 4 
Venus, ...... 11 4 8 89 + 1 28 44 12 = 1 2 6&2 61 
Mars, ...... 9 19 3 11 + ° 1 28 44 12 = 11 17 47 93 
Jupiter, .... 10 18 656 9 + 1 28 44 12 = O 16 49 QI 
Saturn, .... 9 10 2 28 + #1 28 44 12 = 11 8 46 40 
Moon’s apogee, 2 1 14 7 + #1 28 44 12 = 3 29 58 19 
——Node supt. 7 5 22 16 — 1 28 44 12 = 5 6 38 4 


The sun at the given moment is supposed to be 
just entering the first sign in the Hindu sphere; but 
its longitude at the same instant in the European 
sphere was 10° 1° 15’ 48’, the difference 1° 28° 44'12”" 
is the difference between the two spheres at the time; 
which being added to the longitudes of the planets 
in the tropical sphere, reduces their places to the 
Hindu ; from which it may be easily seen that the 
planets were not in the position assumed, and that 
the errors in the assumption so made were, 


In the Sun’s place, ¢....cscceeeeceeaere oe 0 oO 
Moon’s do. sesccscccscccsesecee 3 8 48 — 


Mercury's do. ..ccccccsesescecs . 32 38 59 + 
Venus’s do. c.scccsereees seceoee 32 52 51 — 
Mar’s do. ....cccecncesessssees . 12 13 37 + 


Jupiter’s do.cceseesecceee seoees 16 49 21 — 
Satarn’s do. weseceesesscsccesose 21 13 20 + 


Digitized by Google 


88 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


The marks or signs— + show, that the assumed po- 
sition falls short of, or exceeds the real mean place, 
by the quantity to which they are annexed: thus the 
position assumed being 0°, falls short of the moon’s’ 
mean place at the time by 3° 8’ 48", and exceeds the 
mean place of Mercury by 32° 38’ 59", because Mer- 
cury was then only in 10° 27° 21’ 1” instead of 0° 0° 
0’ 0’, the assumed position. . 

From the circumstance here stated, it must be 
self-evident, that in deriving the mean annual motions 
of the planets from the assumed position at the given 
time, the mean motions of the moon, Venus and 
Jupiter, must come out greater, and those of Mer- 
cury, Mars, and Saturn, less, than the truth, —and 
that the errors in such mean annual motions would, 
if nothing else operated to the contrary, be in pro- 
portion to the errors 3 above exhibited in the position 
assumed. 

Having thus shown the principal cause of the dif 
ference between the Europeans and modern Hindus 
in respect of the guantities of the mean annual motions 
of the planets, we may now proceed to determine 
the mean motions themselves, preparatory to our 
showing the manner in which the astronomical sys- 
tem was formed and connected with the system 
of years already mentioned. 

I have already stated, that the ancient astronomy 
of the Hindus terminated in March, A.D. 538, at 
which period the new system was introduced. In 
this year the vernal equinoctial point, the beginning 
of the Lunar Asterism Aswini, and the beginning of 
the month Vaisakha, were supposed to coincide, 
(See Plate VI.) which point was, therefore, made the 
commencement of the year in this new system; so - 


Digitized by Google 


Ny 
5 
3 


Ybe hilalive Deyilions of lhe faved id pl Lina r Mansa, Cola red, Months, 
and iy As on the 20% March . AD I3BS, when. the ww Ee te he Aiton i A COMMER red, 
the S asis began with the. Mon he Di wiakhe and the Sphere wth Ba tivie r Chilerinm Soi : 


Digitized by Google 


3 Lubliched. by Smith, Elden be C? Cornhitt, Lomdore,2$05. 2, bark scudot } 


OF THE HINDUS. 89: 


that the sun was supposed to enter into the sign 
Aries of the tropical sphere, and into the first sign 
of the Hindu sphere at the same moment of time. 
Now the instant of the mean vernal equinox in that 
year, was the 21st March, about six in the morning, 
on the meridian of Ujein, and the number of days 
elapsed from 6 A.M. 18th February, in the year 
1612 of the Julian period, to the instant of the ver- 
nal equinox in A. D. 538, was 1329176 days, which - 
being divided by the number of Hindu years, viz. 
3639 then completed, we obtain 365 6" 12™ 21° 57" 
or 365° 15® 30’ 54” 54” for the length of the Hindu 
year ; which, however, must undergo a correction, 
in order to adjust it to the new system, under the 
following conditions :—Ist, The Kalpa, or, system, 
is to commence with Sunday at sunrise, as the first day 
of the week.—2d, The number of days in the Kalpa, or 
in 4,320,000,000 years, must be complete without a 
fraction. 3rd, The number of days from the creation, 
or beginning of the Kalpa, to the 18th February, in 
the year 1612 of the Julian period, or in 1972944000 
years, must be complete without a fraction.—Ath, The 
days so elapsed, must, when divided by seven, leave a 
remainder of five, to indicate. that the 18th February 
1612 J. P. fell on Friday. To comply with all these 
conditions, the length of the Hindu year, when cor- 
rected, comes out 365¢ 6" 12™ 9°, or 3654 15 30' 22” 
30", differing a few seconds from the former. Com- 
mencing, therefore, this year on the 18th February 
1612 J.P. at 6 A.M. the termination of the 3639th 
year falls on the 20th of March A.D. 538, at 53’ 51" 
past 4 P.M. at which instant the following were the 
mean positions of the planets :— 
N 


Digitized by Google 


90 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


Sun, Baropean sphere, 115 29° 25’ 83” Hinda sphere, 05 0° Y 0” 


Moon, ..cerescccece 1 17 46 32 ....... eooee 1 18 20 59 
Mercury, .....ecese 3B 6 44 45 cccccccsnees 5 6 19 12 
Venus, ..0.secceces 4A 1T BT 5A wccceunsvees 4318 12 1 
Mars, ..cecsresseee 9 2 42 B81 crcccee coors 9 2 16 58 
Jupiter, oo. ceceece 9 ZL 19 26 .ccscseesence 9 21 53 53 
Saturn, ...see-seee 5B 15 12 B85 ..ecccsceeee 5 15 47 02 


On the 18th February 1612 J.P. at 6 A.M. they 
were assumed to be in 0°, or the beginning of the 
Hindu sphere; therefore, to get their mean annual 
motions from this assumption, we must get their re- 
volutions for the time elapsed, (3639 years com- 
plete,) and add them to the above positions, which 
will then give us the following : 


Sun, ..s.sseevsescees . BEBOTEr OF 80° 00’ 0” 
Moon, . 48649 1.18 20 59 
Mercury, . 15109 SCG: 
Venus, scecceseescese 5915 4°18 12 21 
Mars, .esccoccsseeee 1934 9 3 16 58 
Jupiter, ...... coseees ° 806 9 21 53 53 
Saturn,...essssecsece 128 5 16 47 02 


These quantities, being now divided by the time, 
3639 years, we shall get the mean annual: motions 
of each, as follow: 


Sun, cececcccscoeresecee Lee Os O° Of Oo” 
Moon, .ccesccccsceveree 13 4 12 46 80 
Mercary, ..cccessoecsecs 4 1 24 45 #1 
Venus, ...ccccccce eccces 1 7 1 th 45 
Mars, ..ccecsece secssece. O 6 ib 24 6 
Jupiter, ..sessseccovece -: 0 1 0 21- 8 
Satarn, ...... Oereeeecces 0 0 12 #12 #49 


The mean annual motions thus deduced, as from 
two actual observations, would of course give the 
positions of the planets on the 20th March A.D. 
538 at 53’ 51” past 4 P.M. reckoning such motions 
as commencing at the epoch of mean conjunction. 
But, conformably to the nature of the system ‘to be 
constructed, it is requisite that the planetary mo- 
tions should commence with the Kalpa, or modern 


Digitized by Google 


. OF THE HINDUS. 91 


creation; therefore the motions just found will re- 
quire a correction to adjust them to the system of 
years already mentioned. For this purpose, it is 
necessary, in the first place, that the number of re-. 
volutions of each planet in the period of 4320000000 
years should be complete, and entire without a frac- 
tion; and, secondly, that the number to be assigned 
shall, when reckoned as commencing from the crea- 
tion, or beginning of the Kalpa, give the mean place 
_ of the planet in A: D. 538, when the system was 
framed, as near the truth as the nature of integral 
numbers will admit. The method of doing this I 
will now show ;—a single example will be sufficient 
for this purpose. 

Let it be required to find from the mean motions 
above determined, the number of revolutions of Venus 
in the period of 4320000000 years, so that the same ~ 
‘being reckoned from the creation, (1972947639 years 
before A.D. 538,) it shall give the mean place of 
the planet, sufficiently correct to answer all Hindu 
purposes. 

First step. — The. mean motion of Venus for 3639 
years is found above to be 5915" 4° 18° 12’ 21”. 
Therefore, as 3639 years give this quantity, so 
4320000000 years will give 7022384850 revolutions 
nearly: then say, 

As 4320000000 years to 7022384850 revolutions, 
so the years elapsed from.the creation in A. D. 538 = 
1972947639, to (8207129076""') 4* 16° 24’ 20"; com- 
paring this with 4° 18° 12' 21", the mean longitude of 
‘Venus in A.D. 538, it will be found too little by 
1° 48’ 1"; to make up this deficiency, we must find 
-what diffrence: one revolution will make, thus :— 
As 4320000000™ : 1 :: 1972947639" : 5° 14° 24’ 
44" 17” 30": 7" 12% — Having thus found the. differ- 


Digitized by Google 


92 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


ence that one revolution would make, we must find 
by trials what number of revolutions will make up 
for the deficiency, 1° 48'.1";—this will be found to 
be 4642; for, if we multiply 5° 14° 24’ 44’, &c. by 
this number, we shall get, rejecting the revolutions 
as of no use, 1° 54’ 42”, which exceeds 1° 48' 1” by 
only 6' 41": therefore, adding 4642 to 7022384850, 
we have the corrected number, equal to 7022389492, 
which is the very same that is given by the inventor 
of the system, in the following table; and in this 
manner all the rest were formed and adjusted to the 
number of years above given. 

Table of the revolutions of the planets, apsides, 
and nodes in a Kalpa, or 4320000000 years, formed 
in the manner above explained by the author of the 
system in A. D. 538. 


Planets. Nodes Retrograde. 

Sun’s revolutions, 4320000000 
OOD, vesccoee 57753300000 oo parveue | 
Mercury, ....06 17936998984 os ae 611 
Venus, ....2.00 7022389492 eo» 893 
Mars, ..scscseee 2296828522 267 
Jupiter, ...eee0 364 e 63 
Satarn, ...-.00 os aig 298 584 
Een seeee oe 

Days, rrbeireoee 


The following numbers, which are of use in com- 
putation, are derived from those in the above table. | 


Bolar or Saura months, in 4320000000 years, ....cccccccecs = .51840000000 
Lanations ........ in ditto, = v baape denervated = 63433300000 
Totercalary lunations, = 53433300000 — 51840000000 . = 1593300000 
‘Fithis, or lanar days, =.53433800000 x 80 . eceree ==1602999000000 
Interoalary Tithis, = 1,602,999,000,000— 1 {577,016,450,000 = 25,082,550,000 


Sideral days, ...... = 1577916450000 + 4320000000 ...... = 1582236450000 


Having thus given a complete view of the manner 
in which the first and most ancient of the modern 
astronomical systems of the Hindus was framed, it 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. | ; 93 


must, I believe, be sufficiently obvious to any per- 
son acquainted with computation, that the positions 
of the planets given by such system, must necessa- 
rily be nearer the truth at the time it was framed, 
than at any other distant period, either before or 
after. For, though entire numbers cannot be made 
to give exactly the positions of the planets according 
to observation, as may be seen by the example above 
given respecting the number of revolutions of Venus, 
which gives the position of that planet about 6’ 41” 
too great, yet still, the errors upon the whole, will 
be less then than at any other distant time: and 
this self-evident principle will be found to exist, not 
only in Hindu astronomical works, but also in all 
astronomical tables whatever; for every astronomer, 
whether his system or tables be real or artificial, must 
necessarily endeavour to give the positions of the 
planets as correct as he can, at least in his own time; 
for otherwise they would be of no use. 

Let us, therefore, now, apply this principle in de- 
termining the antiquity of the above system, in the 
same manner as if we met with it by accident, and 
did not know when it was framed. For this purpose 
there are two methods. The first is, to determine 
the error in the positions of the planets at some fixed 
point of time, and then to divide the errors so found, 
by the errors or differences in the mean motions; the 
~ mean result will point out the time sufficiently near 
for our purpose. The second is, to determine the 
errors in the positions of the planets at different pe- 
riods, till one is found at which the sum of the errors 
is the least possible, and after which the errors again 
begin to increase. The period when the errors are 
least, is the time the system was framed, or very 
near it. 


Digitized by Google 


94 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


To determine the antiquity of the system by the 
first method, let the errors in the positions of the 
planets at the beginning of the Kali Yuga, (18th 
February 1612 J.P. at 6 A.M. 75° 50’ East of 
Greenwich,) be determined. 

The positions of the planets by the system, at the 
beginning of the Kali Yuga, will be had by multi- 
plying the four last figures of the number of revolu- 
tions of each, as given in the Table, by 4567, re- 
serving in the product the four right-hand figures, 
which will express the position of the planet in de- 
. cimal parts of a revolution, thus :— 


The Sun, ......00: 0000 x 4567 = 0000 
Moon, ...-0-- 0000 x 4567 = 0000 
Mercury, .... 8984 x 4567 = 9928 = Il" 27° 24’ 28”,8 
Venus, .s.es- 9492 x 4567 = 9964 = 11 28.42 14,4 
Mars, ..esees 8522 x 4567 = 9974 = 11 29 3 50,4 
Jupiter, ...... 6455 x 4567 = 9985 = 11 29 27 36,0 
Satarn, ...... 7298 x 4567 .= 9966 = 11 28 46 33 ,6 


Moon’s apogee, 5858 x 4567 = 3486 = 4 5 29 45,6 
——Node,... 1168 x 4567 = 4256 = 5 8 12 67,6 | 
The rule above given, serving only to exhibit the 

positions of the planets, &c. at the beginning of the 
Kali Yuga, by the system, it may be proper to give 
here the general rule, which answers for all times. 
It is this: As 4320000000 years is to the number of 
revolutions of the planet, &c. given in the Table; so 
the time elapsed from the beginning of the Kalpa, or 
modern creation, to the planet’s, &c. mean place in 
the Hindu sphere at the end of that time.* By this 
rule the above positions may be verified, the number 
of years elapsed at the beginning of the Kali Yuga 
being 1972944000. By the same rule the mean an- 
nual motions are also obtained, by making the state- 
ment for one year. 


. * If the time be days, you may make the days in the Kalpa your first number, 
the revolutions the second, and the given number of days the third. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 95 


Having the positions of the planets at the begin- 
ning of the Kali Yuga, we compare them with their 
positions for the same instant by La Lande’s Tables, 
in order to find the errors or differences at that time, 
thus :— 

Mean places of the planets at the beginning of the 
Kali Yuga. 


By the system as above. By La Lande’s Tables. Errors. 

San, .cssescese OF 0° OY 0” oe oe FY OW eo 9 oO” 
Moon, ........5 0 0 O 0 0 38 8 47,7. — 8 8 47,7 
Mercury, ...... 11 27 24 28,8 10 27 21 «#209 ++ 30 $8 27,9 
Venus, ........ 11 28 42 14,4 1 2 52 509 — 34 10 36,5 
Mars, ........ 11 29 3 50,4 Al 17 47 #229 + 11 16 27,5 
Jopiter, ....... 11.29 27 36,0 0 16 49 20,7 — 17 21 44,7 
Saturn, ....... 11 28 46 33,6 11 8 46 40,0: + 19 59 53,6 
Moon’s apogee,. 4 6 29 45,6 3 29 58 19,2 + 6&5 31 26,4 

Node supt. 5 3 12 57,6 5 6 38 #38 — 8 2 6,2 


Here, at the beginning of the Kali Yuga, we have 
the error in the place of Venus, equal to 34° 10’ 36” 
5, whereas in A.D. 538, it amounted to only 6’ 41", 
which alone would be a convincing proof of the time 
when the system was framed ; for all the errors must 
incontrovertibly diminish, as we approach the time 
at which the observations were made, on which the 
system is founded. 

But to proceed: we must now compare the mean 
annual motions by the system, with La Lande’s’ oe 
bles for the same space of time, 365" 6" 12™ 9", r 
duced to the Hindu sphere, in order to. _ the aif 
ferences, or errors. 


_ By the System. By LaLande’s Tables. | Errors. 

Sun, ......... 0 0° 0% 0” o 0° 0 0” o” 
Moon, ....... 4 12 46 30 4 12. 46 26,6140 ~ 38,3860 + 
Mercury, ..... 1 24 44 59,6952 1 24 45 33,3660 33,6708 — 
Venus, .e.ss0. 7 15 11 56,8476 7 15 11 22,9260 33,9208 + 
Mars, ........ 6 11 24 8,5566 6 31 24 19,6790 11,1224 — 
Jupiter, ...... 1 0 21 7,9365 1 0 20 61,5178 16,4187 + 
Saturn, ...-... 0 12 12 50,1894 0 12 13 10,4427 20,2523 — 
Moon’s apogee, 1 10 40 81,7574 1 10 40 36,5950 4,8376 — 

Node, 0 19 21 33,3504 “0 19 21 29,8975  3,4520 + 


Digitized by Google 


96 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


Having now obtained the errors or differences in 
the mean annual motions, let the errors in position 
at the beginning of the Kali Yuga be divided by 
these, and we shal] have the time, according to each, 
when there was no error, thus : — 


Moon, ...... ee 38° 8 48” 


te Geo } seseee divided by 3,386 gives 3591 


Mercary,..eee. 30 3 27 9D cesecs ditto by 33,66 — 3213 
Venus, .c..0000 84 10 SE 5 ccccccsrecccccee 33,92 — 3627 
Mars, ..ceeeee LL 16 27 & wccccccecccoceee 11,12 — 3649 
Jupiter,...ecee 17 BL 44 TZ ccccccvecessceee 1642 — 3806 
Satarn, ..ceeee 19 59 53 6 cccssccecccccece 20,25 — 3555, 
Moon’s apogee, 5 S31 B6 4d ciccceccceccnces 4,84 — 4109 
—— Node supt. S$ 25 6 Biccsccccccceceee 3,45 —- 3567 

Their sum is ee oe 29117 


Which, divided by 8, gives for a mean result 3639 
years from the beginning of the Kali Yuga, or A.D. 
538, the real epoch of the system. 

The following Table will now explain the second 
method, by which the errors in the system, at dif- 
ferent periods, are shown gradually diminishing, from 
the beginning of the Kali Yuga, down to the epoch 
at which it was framed, A.D. 538. 


Ptanets, Kali Yoga, 


Kali Yuga | Kali Yi Kali Yu; Kali Yu Kali Yi 
600. 1200. 2000. 3000. “a oF A. 


—| 7° 8'14”—| 5°27’37”—| 3°26’11” — 
2646 +|18 50 8 
5211 


1915’28”—| 0° 7’ 2074 
358 40 
006 41 
0 1 54 
045 58 


036 24 
038 2 + 


Lh+ed 


0419 


By this Table it may be seen, at one view, the 
vast difference there is between the errors at the be- 


* Inclading the secular equation. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 97 


ginning of the Kak Yuga, and those in A.D. 538. 
At the former period, the error in the moon’s place 
was 8° 55’ 33’, at the latter only about 7' 20", the 
secular equation being added throughout. The error 
in the place of Venus at the beginning of. the Kali 
Yuga was upwards of 34°, in A.D. 538 only 6 41”. 
The error in Mars, at the former period, was upwards 
of 11°, at the latter only 1’ 54"; and so in all the 
rest, in not one of which does the error in A. D. 538 
amount to a degree, except Mercury. The error in 
the place of Mercury in A.D. 538, I suspect, has 
not arisen from incorrect observation, but rather from 
some inadvertent error having crept into the number 
of revolutions by miscopying, at some period or 
other. The number of revolutions that seem requi- 
site to correct the error is 300, which, being added 
to 17936998984, makes 17936999284. This number: 
will give the place of Mercury in A.D. 538, agree- 
ing with our modern European Tables within 17’ 13”. 

Having now sufficiently explained the structure 
of the astronomical part of the system, and the 
mode of determining the mean places of the planets, 
&c. from the number of revolutions of each in the 
Kaipa, it will be proper, in the next place, to say 
something of the Lunar Asterisms. 

The Lunar Asterisms, from what has been said in 
the first part of this essay respecting ancient observ- 
ations, must have existed ready formed, and the la- 
titudes and longitudes of some of the principal fixed 
stars in each, determined many centuries anterior to 
A.D. 538: moreover, the Hindu sphere, at different 
times, appears to have commenced with different ' 
Asterisms, depending on the coincidence of the com- 
mencement of the year with that of the Lunar As- 
terism. Thus, in the year 1181 B.C. when the Hindu 
months were first framed and named, the year began 

) 


Digitized by Google 


98 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


with the month Magha, at the winter solstice, and - 
with the Lunar Asterism Dhanisht'ha, sometimes call- 
ed Sravisht'ha, which was therefore made the first of 
the series at that time. But the ancient Hindu years, 
months, and seasons, being tropical, continually fell 
back in respect of the fixed stars; in consequence 
of which, at the end of every period of 247 tropical 
years and one month, the commencement of the 
year was changed to the next succeeding month, in 
regular succession, in the manner already described 
in the first part, until at length the month Vaisakha, 
in A.D. 538, coincided with the beginning of the 
Lunar Asterism Aswini; which was therefore, made 
the first of the year, and Aswini the first Lunar As- 
terism in the series of mansions: (see Plate VI.) * 
and this is the epoch referred to by the positions, &c. 
of the stars given in all the Hindu books written 
since that period. 

It is proper to observe, that the positions of the 
stars usually given in Hindu books, are not, strictly 
speaking, either their latitudes and longitudes, nor 
declinations and right .ascensions. The distance of 
the point in the ecliptic, cut by the circle of declin- 
ation of the star, measured from the beginning of 
Aswini, is given in place of the longitude; and the 
distance between the same point of the ecliptic and 
the star, measured on the circle of declination, is 
given in place of the latitude: from these the true 
latitude and longitude is obtained by computation 
when necessary. All this will be easily understood 
by means of the following Diagram : — 

“In Plate VI. there are two numbers to each fixed Lunar Asterism, to poiat ont 
the name: the first, or right hand number, refers to the modern order, beginping 
with Aswinit; the second to the ancient, commencing with Sravisht’ha. The move- 
able Lanar Mansions, after the introduction of the signs of the tropical sphere into 
India, I believe were discontinued, as of no further ase; bat they are marked in 


the plate, to point out the quantity of the precession, reckoning from the year 1192 
B.C. when they coincided with the fixed or astral ones of the same name. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 99 


Let P, be the pole of the equator. 

p, the pole of the ecliptic. 

A E, the equator. 

% + w, the ecliptic. 

S, the place of a star. 

rv, the beginning of Aswini, and the vernal equi- 
noctial point in A.D. 538, then assumed as 
coinciding. 

Then Pc, is the circle of declination cutting the 
star at S, and the ecliptic in the point c. Now the 
distance + c, on the ecliptic, is the tabular longitude 
from the beginning of Aswint, and the distance c S, 
is the tabular latitude: on the other hand, r+ 4 is the 
true longitude, because the circle of latitude p 4, 
cuts the ecliptic at 5, and the true latitude is dS. 

The Hindu astronomers, in calculating the true 
latitudes and longitudes from the tabular ones, de- 
termine the difference of longitude c 4, and add it to, 
or subtract it from the tabular longitude, according 
as the circumstance of the case may require. 


Digitized by Google 


les of 


declinations, and the longitude of the points of the 


1r circ 


. 


ASTRONOMY 
from Aries, or 


z. 


in 


THE MODERN 


ing of Asw 


inn 


The following Table, shows the distances of the 


stars from the ecliptic, counted on the 
ecliptic cut by the same, reckoning 


the beg 


100 


GE 
13 
&% 
0% 
8V 
06 
At 
FT 
vL 
ot 
SS 
0% 
8 
€1 
(47 
cg 
SI 
I 
1 
iza 
¥% 
v 
ts 
0g 
91 
SP 
rs 
& 


‘squ0aT 12 ‘OL 


| ce 


+++ 1 


oLE [64 VI of% 


N 
Yo) 
° 

~ 


*uols 
“$9021 


*papuszut aq 
0} pasoddns sie}g 


as “mOIsUB]y 
“Buoy any | -Suoy ‘pip jo aparpery| [P43 Ur Ieys) 
ay} jo 


suoneyndmog fg 


a) 


SHAM ARSSOSCOGHAPOOSCSOONSOHANOSHDOS 
eooosrooeooonwnunoco 6g a2 


6S2|"S 08 
VeerN +P 
BESS €B 


A 9 
“WI 


‘RENOY 

‘DU VOYISY “7 
“PYDDYSY +r 
“pny 

‘py dysalir 
“PYppanu py 
“pyypsey 
“upag 
‘pang 
‘Dysn yy 
‘wend 7) 
‘wunbpyd “t 
‘py boyy 
‘pysapsy 
‘olisng 
‘nspawnung 
‘papay 


‘snaispbisyy 


“ayoxy 
“Dy 
“nuDsDy 
‘maasy | 


*sUSIIa}sY 
qean'y oq) jo samen 


‘naa 1% 
‘opndvapoyg' 9% 
‘ppodoapoyg "ey SB 
‘oysryqoing: £2: 
‘DUAYSROYT $F 

‘punavigy @ 


Digitized by Google 


AMM MOrRDASCH AS 
Bae ee seh es 


OF THE HINDUS. 101 


The first column of the above table shows the 
names of the Lunar Asterisms in their order, reckon- 
ing from Aswini as the first of the series. The second 
column contains the distances of the respective stars 
from the ecliptic, measured on their circles of declin- 
- ations, explained in the diagram by the distance Sc. 
The third column shows the longitude of: the point in 
the ecliptic, intersected by the circle of declination 
(at c in the diagram), measured on the ecliptic, and 
represented by + c. 

The fourth column shows the longitude of each 
star in its own mansion. 

The fifth, shows the true latitude, marked in the 
diagram S 4, and the sixth, the difference of longitude 
6c, both computed from the positions given in the 
2nd and 3rd columns. 

The seventh, shews the true longitude represented 
by rv 5. 

The eighth, the stars supposed to be intended by 
the positions so given. 

The ninth, the longitudes of the same stars by the 
Britannic Catalogue in A.D. 1690, and thence we 
obtain the precession contained in the tenth column 
for each particular star, from the time of supposed 
observation down to that year. 

The change took place ia the Hindu astronomy in 
A.D. 538: from thence to A.D. 1690 are 1152 years, 
the precession for which is about 16°2’ 4". This, 
compared with the precessions in the 10th column, 
shows that some of the observations, if made in A.D. 
538, must have been inaceurate, or else that they 
had. been made at different times, and imtroduced 
into the table without correction. This seems to be 
the case with the star « Lyre (Abhiit ), against which 
stands the precession 20°17’, which exceed the real 


Digitized by Google 


102 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


precession by about 4°1-4th; and therefore sup- 
posed to be introduced into the table without making © 
the necessary correction, to reduce its position to 
what it should have been at the epoch. It is, how- 
ever, to be observed, that the star Abhijit, or rather 
the mansion so called, does not belong to the division 
of 27, but to that of 28: and the same may be said 
of the asterisms marked 21, 22, and 23, the positions 
of the stars given in them, from this cause, falling 
into mansions bearing other names, in the division of 
27, which will be more fully explained in the next 
section. 

The positions of the stars thus intended for the 
epoch of A. D. 538, are nearly the same in all Hindu 
books, whether written then, or at any time since; 
in order that the precession may be invariably 
reckoned from the commencement of Aswint, which 
is the beginning of the modern Hindu sphere. They, 
therefore, do not point out the age of the book in 
which they are given, which may be very modern, 
but only refer to the epoch of the change in the 
Hindu astronomy: so that whatever antiquity may 
be feigned to a Hindu book containing the positions 
of the stars thus given, or the same order of the 
mansions, we may be certain that it has been written 
since the introduction of the modern astronomy. So 
far, therefore, the table of mansions may be of use in 
limiting the utmost age of a book, when we have no 
other means to fix or determine its real date. 

Having thus explained: the Lunar Asterisms, it 
will be now proper to add a few remarks on the 
signs, both in the Hindu and tropical spheres. I 
have already noticed, that the Hindus, for some cen- 
turies anterior to A.D. 538, adopted the tropical 
sphere; or that in which the sign named Aries, 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 103 


always begins at the vernal equinoctial point, and 
which probably they received from the west. In 
A.D. 538, they changed their method, and intro- 
duced the sideral sphere now in use, which they di- 
vided into twelve signs of two Lunar Asterisms and 
a quarter each, the first of which always begins with 
Aswini, and therefore fixed, in respect of the Lunar 
Asterisms ; but the tropical signs, which they found 
“necessary still to retain for a variety of purposes, 
continually falling back in respect of the others, by 
reason of the precession, it became, therefore, ne- 
cessary to distinguish them from each other, in order 
to guard against confusion or uncertainty: this was 
effected by retaining the names Aries, Taurus, Gemini, 
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, &c. exclusively for the signs of 
the tropical sphere, and the new sideral signs, to be 
‘only numerically expressed or designated. Thus, 
suppose the sun’s place was 9° 6° 4’ 30’, it would be 
immediately understood that this was in the sideral 
sphere, reckoning from the beginning of Aswini, and 
not from Aries, or the vernal equinoctial point. For, 
if the latter was intended, it would be expressed 
thus: Capricorn, 6° 4' 30", or else by the words with 
the precession added, when the name of the sign was 
not used. This method was also adopted in Europe 
about 150 years ago, when some astronomers had 
introduced the sideral sphere, making y Arietis the 
commencement, and from which star the precession 
was reckoned, as by the Hindus, from the beginning 
of Aswini. 

The Hindu astronomers employ the tropical sphere 
to this day for many purposes. By the sun’s longitude 
in the tropical sphere, or from the beginning of Aries, 
is determined his declination and right ascension, 
length of the day and night, times of sun’s rising and 


Digitized by Google 


104 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


setting, &c. together with the times of the heliacal 
and cosmical risings and settings of the stars, nati- 
vities, and a great many other circumstances known 
to astronomers. I have been more particular on this 
head, perhaps, than may appear necessary to the 
real astronomer; but my reason and excuse for it is, 
that in no part of the Hindu astronomy has arisen so 
much error and confusion as on this very point. 

The astronomical system above explained, is by. 
some attributed to Brahma, by some to Brahma 
Acharya, and by others to Brahma Gupta, the whole 
of which names, [ apprehend, belong to one and the 
same individual, and that individual to be Brahma 
Gupta. For the system is givén in the Siddhanta 
Siromani, said to be by Bhaskara Acharya, and ac- 
knowledged to be from Brahma Gupta; and the 
same conclusion is supported by the authority of 
other writers, notwithstanding the opinion of the 
commentator on the Surya Siddhanta, that Brahma 
Gupta borrowed his system from the Vishnu Dhar- 
mottara Purana, an opinion which can be of no 
weight whatever; because, it is the wish of every 
Hindu, to make the world believe in the great anti- 
quity of their Puranas: though in fact none of them 
are ancient, and some of them not a hundred years 
old. Brahma Gupta’s system may be contained in 
the Vishnu Dharmottara Purana, but it does not 
follow from thence that he borrowed it from that 
work ; on the contrary, it is more reasonable to sup- 
pose that the author of the Vishnu Dharmottara Pu- 
rana borrowed it from him. 

But be this as it may, the question who was the 
. author of it, is not of the slightest importance ; nor 
~ do I care or concern myself about who was the au- 
thor: my object alone was to determine, from astro- 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 105 


nomical data, the antiquity of the system, which, 
I believe, I have sufficiently and satisfactorily ef- 
fected. 

The object of the author of the system, whoever 
he may have been, was evidently to substitute in the 
room of the former periods (the four ages and nine 
patriarchal periods, or Manwantaras), the immense 
periods of his own system, and thereby give the ap- 
pearance of the most profound antiquity to the Hindu 
people, their history, their arts, and their sciences, 
far beyond any other nation or people on the face of 
the earth, as may be seen by the following passage 
in.the Commentary on the Surya Siddhanta, wherein 
Ganesa is made to say: ‘‘ The. planets were right in 
the computed places in the time of Brahma Acharya, 
-Vasishtha, Casyapa, and others, by the rules they 
gave; but in length of time they differed, after 
which, at the close of Satya age (2,163,101 years. 
before Christ), the sun revealed to Meya a comput- - 
ation of their true places. The rules then received 
answered during the Zreta (1,296,000 years), and 
Dwapar (864,000 years), as also did other rules 
formed by the Munis during those periods. In the 
beginning of the Kali Yuga (3101 B.C.) Parasara’s 

.book answered; but Aryabhatta, many years after, 
having examined the heavens, found some deviation, 
and introduced a correction of bija. After him, when 
further deviations were observed, Durga, Sinha Mi- 
hira, and others, made corrections. After them came 
the son of Jistnu, and Brahma Gupta, and made cor- 
rections. After them, Kesava settled the places of 
the planets; and sixty years after Kesava, his son 
Ganesa made corrections.”— As. Res. vol. ii. p. 243. 

The object of this most absurd passage is, first, to 
give an appearance of immense antiquity to their 

P 


Digitized by Google 


106 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


astronomy, their history, and consequently them- 
selves as a people; secondly, to throw back into 
antiquity Aryabhatta, Durga Sinha, Varaha Mihira, 
and others, by placing Brahma Gupta as posterior 
to all these; which, however, is shown to be false in 
the very beginning of the book, where the author 
enumerates the astronomers whose works he con- 
sulted, in the order of their antiquity, thus: Brahma 
Gupta, Aryabhatta, Varaha, Lalla, &c. The real 
times of Aryabhatta and Varaha Mihira will be 
shown from their own works, in the third and fourth 
sections: so that the above passage must be an im- 
position, if Brahma Gupta was the author of the 
system above given, or lived at the time when it was 
framed. 

In fact, there is no imposition too gross or absurd 
that a Hindu will not employ to gain his ends, if he 
can effect it by that means. We see that by means 
of this system of Brahma (invented in A.D. 538), and 
of various passages like the above, inserted in books 
with a view to support it, the real Hindu history and 
chronology have been completely destroyed; so that 
Yudhishthira, Parasara, Garga, and others, who lived 
from about 540 to 575 B.C. were thrown back into 
antiquity about 2600 years more: * Rama, who was 
born in the year B.C. 961, was thrown back up- 
wards of 867,000 years before the Christian era, and 
Ikswaku, the first king, who began his reign in the 
year 1528 B.C. was thrown back upwards of 2,163,000 
years B.C.; for such was the change made by this 
system in the chronology and history of the Hindus. 
But to carry all this into effect, many things were 


* This is the cause why the reigns of the kings from 540 B.C. to 299 B.C. are 
not distinguished from the rest that followed. See pp. 77, 78. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 107 - 


necessary. In the first place, it was requisite that 
all their ancient books on astronomy, history, &c. 
that could in the smallest degree affect or contradict 
the new order of things, should be either destroyed 
new modelled, or the obnoxious passages expunged ; 
and, secondly, that others should be written or com- 
posed having the appearance of antiquity, by being 
fathered on ancient writers to support, as it were by 
their evidence, the existence in ancient times, and 
through all ages, of the new system of years thus 
introduced. Thus, it is put into the mouth of Menu 
to say: ‘‘ When ten thousand and ten years of the 
Satya Yuga were past (i. e. 3881091 B.C.) on the 
night of the full moon in the month of Bhadra, 1 
Munnoo, at the command of Brahma, finished this 
shaster, that speaks of men’s duty, of justice, and of 
religion, ever instructive.” * By such means the 
system was introduced, though I believe not without 
a struggle; for there is still a tradition that the 
Maharastras or Maharattas, destroyed all the an- 
cient works, — that people hid. their books_in wells, 
tanks, and other places, but to no purpose, for 
hardly any escaped ; and those that did then escape, 
were afterwards picked up by degrees, so that not 
one was allowed to be in circulation, This will ac- 
count, not only for the books that now exist being 
either entirely modern, or else new modelled to cor- 
respond with the new order of things, but also for 
the paucity of ancient facts and observations that 
have reached our time. Indeed the few scattered 
and insulated fragments that have reached our time, 


* Mr. Halhed, in his Gestoo laws, gives this passage, and from what he says, 
seems to believe the truth of it; but his argument will not bold good, because it 
does not follow that Menu ever wrote a line of it: in fact he could not, Menu being 
only a fictitious personage jptroduced for the purpose. 


Digitized by Google 


108 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


would not have been allowed to pass, had they been 
supposed to be of any consequence, or could convey 
any idea or knowledge of former times. And. we 
may rely on it, that the moment they become known, 
the books in which they are contained will either be 
destroyed, or the facts themselves expunged; for 
the Brahmins of this day, are fully as eager in sup- 
port of this monstrous system as those that first in- 
vented it, and watch every opportunity of destroying 
such facts against it as may.appear to have escaped 
the vigilance of former Brahmins. But to wait for 
the gradual development of facts, would be a great 
loss of time: they therefore artfully endeavour, as if 
by accident, to encourage a controversy on the sub- 
ject, with the sole view of knowing from the oppo- 
nent, the points on which he rests his arguments, 
and the books from whence he draws them, in order 
that such books may be destroyed entirely, or the 
facts expunged by degrees, as the nature of the case 
will admit. It is but too well known, that many 
books that were in circulation not more than fifty 
years ago, have now altogether disappeared, probably 
from this cause alone. 

To some it would doubtless appear, as a thing im- 
possible, that a set of Brahmins in Ujein, could im- 
pose such a system on the rest of India. Those, 
_ however, who are acquainted with the Brahminical 
character, know too well that every thing was in 
their power: they were in possession of all the 
learning in the country, and their influence was so 
great, that even the princes of the country were ob- 
liged to bow submission to their will. Therefore, 
when they assembled together in convocation, to 
consult on the general interest of the whole body, 
whatever resolutions they came to on that head, 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 109 


would be universally adopted by the brethren: and 
woe to the man that should dare oppose them; for 
their power and influence far exceeded those of the 
Popes in Europe, so that wherever they sent their 
secret orders, they would be sure to be obeyed. 

The introduction of the modern system was doubt- 
less intended as a blow on Christianity, which, at the 
time, was making some progress in India; for by 
making the Christians appear but as people of yes- 
terday, in comparison to themselves, the natives 
would not only be less disposed to listen to them, 
‘but would look upon them with the same degree of 
contempt as the Brahmins did. 

But the grandest blow of all, which was levelled 
by the Brahmins against Christianity, and the ne plus 
ultra of their schemes, was the invention of the 
Avatars, or descents of the Deity, in various shapes, . 
and under various names, particularly that of Krisna; 
for as the Christians acknowledged that Christ was 
an incarnation of the Deity, and that God the Father 
had sent him down on earth to show his special fa- 
vour to them, and redeem them from sin; so the 
Brahmins, in return, invented not one, but several 
incarnations and descents of the Deity amongst them 
at various times ; thereby, to make it appear by such 
frequent descents, that they exceeded the Christians 
and all other nations by far, in point of favour with 
the Deity. 

My attention was first drawn to this subject, by 
finding that a great many of the Hindu festivals 
marked in their calendar, had every appearance of 
being modern; for they agreed with the modern 
astronomy only, and not with the ancient. 

I observed also several passages in the Geeta, 
having a reference to the new order of things I 


Digitized by Google 


110 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


was therefore induced to make particular enquiries 
respecting the time of Krishna, who, I was satisfied, 
was hot near so ancient as pretended. In these en- 
quiries I was told the usual story, that Krishna 
lived a great many ages ago; that he was contem- 
porary with Yudhishthira; that Garga, the astrono- 
mer, was his priest; and that Garga was present at 
his birth, and determined the positions of the planets 
at that moment; which positions were still pre- 
served in some books, to be found among the astro- 
nomers: besides which, there was mention made of 
his birth in the Harivansa and other Puranas. These 
I examined, but found they were insufficient to point 
out the time. I therefore directed my attention to- 
wards obtaining the Janampatra of Krishna, con- 
taining the positions of the planets at his birth, which 
at length I was fortunate enough to meet with, and 
which in the original Sanscrit runs in the words fol- 
lowing : — 


seat: Kiera ataraa Hat eat  errartsita: 
feggenifez WHATTA CARTE ART Ra: (Paty: WHA 
STH AMMAART Slants aU myaity: 
Uz aera tt 


From which its appears that Krishna was born on 
the 23d day of the moon of Sravana, in the Lunar 
Mansion Rohini, at midnight; at which instant the 
Moon, Mars, Mercury, and Saturn, were in their 
Tespective houses of exaltation; the moon in Taurus, 

ars jn Aries, Mercury in Virgo, and Saturn in 
Libra: that the sign Taurus was then rising: Ju- 
Piter jn Pisces, the sun in Leo, Venus and the 
Moon’s ascending node in Libra: 


. Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 111 


The positions of the planets thus given us at the 
birth of Krishna, place the time of the fiction to the 
year A.D. 600, on the 7th of August, on which day, 
at noon, on the meridian of Paris, the following were 
their respective positions, as computed from Euro- 
pean Tables :— 


Sun in Leo, cocscccccescenccesscccceccsescessess 48 16° 40’ 
Moon in Taurus, ...ccccccccccccccncceccesceccece 1 18 32 
Moon’s node asc. in Libra, ..scececcccccccecccccves 6 11 17 
Meroury in Virgo, geog. long. ....cccseeceses oaecces 6 O 29 
"Venus in Libra,...... WOK ce sigevosecebess ccerese ce G6 1 2 
Mars in Aries, ....6. GO. cececccccccccccccssssess O 16 46 
Jupiter in Tearas,..2. dO. seccccccccccescesscecsse 1 10 F&F 
Saturn in Libra,......d0. cocscvccsccccccceseseves 6 26 51 


Subtracting the sun’s longitude, 4' 16° 40’, from 
the moon’s, 1" 18° 32’, we get 9° 1° 52’, which being 
divided by 12, the difference in longitude between 
the sun and moon in a lunar day, we have 22 lunar 
days, 29 dandas, and 20’, and therefore only 20 dan- 
das 40’ to the commencement of the next lunar day, 
or about 8" and 24 minutes, making the commence- 
ment of the 23d at 24™ past 8 in the evening. To 
this add difference of meridians, 4 hours, 54 minutes, 
makes at Ujein, 18™ past one in the morning, at 
which time the moon was a little past the middle of 
Rohini. 

Krishna, as a portion of Vishnu, means time, or 
the year; for Vishnu being a personification of time, 
any portion whatever of him must be considered as 
time also. Hence the figure of Krishna is almost 
always accompanied with that of one or more ser- 
pents, as emblematic of time; for all the deities 
whose representations or sculptures are accompanied 
by figures of serpents, are without doubt mere per- 
sonifications of time, whether taken as the year or 


Digitized by Google 


112 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


time indefinite*. Arjuna in the Geeta, page 93, in 
addressing Krishna, says: ‘‘I am anxious to learn 
thy source, and ignorant of what thy presence here 
portendeth.” Krishna answers: ‘I am Time, the 
destroyer of mankind, matured, come hither to seize at 
once on all these who stand before us.” 

The fabrication of the incarnation and birth of 
Krishna, was most: undoubtedly meant to answer a 
particular purpose of the Brahmins, who probably 
were sorely vexed at the progress Christianity was 
making, and fearing, if not stopped in time, they 
would lose all their influence and emoluments. It 
is, therefore, not improbable but that they conceived, 
that by inventing the incarnation of a deity nearly 
similar in name to Christ, and making some parts of 
his history and precepts agree with those in the gos- 
pels used by the Eastern Christians, they would then 
be able to turn the tables on the Christians by 
representing to the common people, who might be 
disposed to turn Christians, that Christ and Krishna 
were but one and the same deity ; and as a proof of 
it, that the Christians retained in their books some 
of the precepts of Krishna, but that they were wrong 
in the time they assigned to him ; for that Krishna, 
or Christ, as the Christians called him, lived as far 
_ back as the time of Yudhishthira, and not at the 

_ time set forth by the Christians. Therefore, as 
Christ and Krishna were but one and the same 
deity, it would be ridiculous in them, being already 
of the true faith, to follow the imperfect doctrines 
of a set of outcasts, who had not only forgotten the 
religion of their forefathers, but the country from 


* All the Hindus are Satarnalians, that is, worshippers of time, under various 
shapes and names, according to the different sects, 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 113 


which they originally sprung. Moreover, that they 
were told by Krishna, in his precepts, that a man’s 
own religion, though contrary to, is better than, the 
faith of another, let it be ever so well followed. 
** It is good to die in one’s own faith ; for another's 
faith beareth fear.” Geeta, pp. 48, 49. 

I have thus endeavoured to explain, what I con- 
ceive the motives of the Brahmins to have been, in 
their invention of the incarnations of Vishnu, parti- 
cularly that of Krishna: nor have I any doubt but 
that the whole of the incarnations were invented at 
one and the same period; and as they were then 
destroying the old, and forging new books, to answer 
the purpose of the newly introduced system above 
explained, an opportunity offered of referring them 
to different portions of history, that the whole might 
have the appearance of reality. Krishna they artfully 
threw back to the time of Yudhishthira, because by 
that means they put. the matter beyond the power 
of investigation, following exactly the examples of 
the Egyptians, Chaldeans, and Greek priests and 
poets, in throwing back the times of the war between 
the gods and giants, the Argonautic expedition, and 
the war of Troy, to periods of time out of the power 
of any one to contradict them: and this in fact is 
the case with almost all fictions, however plausible 

- they may be. © 

What shall be now thought of the antiquity of 
Hindu books, in most of which, and particularly the 
Mahabharat, they give the exploits of Krishna? 
Even some of the Vedas speak of him, which cer- 
tainly is not saying much in favour of their antiquity. 
The age of the Mahabharat is mentioned in Sir 
Stamford Raffles’ History of Java, by which, at the 
utmost, it could not have been written earlier than 

Q 


Digitized by Google 


114 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


about the year 786 of the Christian era; but from 
the words forming the date, the probability is, that 
it was as late as the year A.D. 1157. The war of 
the Mahabharat, most likely, is nothing more than 
a mere fiction of the poet. 

It is somewhat remarkable that none of the 
writings of the Christians who resided in India 
anterior to, or about A.D. 538, have come down 
to our time. If any exist at this day, they would 
most probably be invaluable, in throwing light on 
that part of the Hindu history, &c. which is now 
lost, in consequence of being either destroyed or 
concealed by the moderns, to make room for their 
new system. It is not impossible, however, but 
that some of them, with early Hindu manuscripts, 
may still exist, locked up in some immense public 
or private libarary in Europe, totally unknown and 
forgotten; where they will remain, until the great 
Hindu deity, Trmz, puts an end to aoe by finally 
mouldering them into dust.’ 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 115- 


SECTION II. 


System of Varaha— Framed in the ninth century=—The object of it — Works in 
which it is given — Observation on Canopus referring to A. D. 928— Revolu- 
tions of the Planets, Sc. in the System— Years elapsed to the beginning of 
the Kali Yuga— Formation of the System, with Remarks — Compared with 
the System of Brahma— Age of the System determined — Lunar Asterisms ~ 
The places of some Stars not agreeing with the names of the Mansions— The 
cause explained, and shown in a Table — Precession of the Equinoxes— The 
method employed artificial, by assuming the motion in an epicycle — Explained 
by a Diagram — The terms Libration or Oscillation inconsistent with the 
Author’s meaning, which is further explained by the Commentator, Sc. &c. 


WE now come to notice the next astronomical sys- 
tem of the Hindus, in point of antiquity ; that is to 
say, the system of Varaha. This system, from the 
astronomical data it gives, appears to have been 
formed in the ninth century of the Christian era. 
The object of the author, whoever he may have been, 
was, first, to support the notions introduced by the 
last system, in respect to the time of the creation, 
&c. &c.; secondly, to give new numbers that would 
give the positions of the planets correctly at the 
time, those given in the former system no longer 
answering, with sufficient accuracy, that purpose ; 
and, thirdly, to render the calculation of the places 
of the planets, &c. much more simple and easy by 
smaller numbers, than could be done by the unwieldy 
numbers in the system of Brahma. 

The system of Varaha* is given in the following 


* This name Varaha, is sapposed by some to have an allusion to the feigned 
iucarnation of Vishnu under that name, while others suppose it to be from Varaha 
Mihira ; but it is perfectly immaterial which. It is certain, however, that Varahw 
Mihira was not the author of the system, as wil! be seen in the fourth Section, where 


Digitized by Google 


116 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


works :—the Vasishtha Siddhanta, the author of 
which is pretended to have lived 1299101 years 
before the Christian era; the Surya Siddhanta pre- 
tended to have been written 3027101 years before 
the Christian era* ; and the Soma Siddhanta, feigned 
to have been written by Gopi Raja at the close of 
the Dwapar, or 3101 years B.C. 

By these may be seen, the mode adopted for sup- 
porting the imposition introduced by the former 
system, that of people living, and cultivating the 
arts and sciences at immense periods of time back. 

The three works just mentioned, it is probable, 
were written at different times, as occasion required, 
to support the imposition. The Vasisht'‘ha Siddhanta, 
I consider as the oldest, because the supposed author 
of that work is said to have observed Canopus, when 
that star was exactly in the beginning of Cancer. 

This observation is mentioned by Dada Bhai, a . 
commentator on the Surya Siddhanta, and is the very. 
position given in the Surya Siddhanta, which we 
must therefore conclude to have been written sub- 
sequent to the observation of Vasisht’ha. 


it will be shown that he was contemporary with Akber. This, however, does not 
prove that the system might not be called after him ; neither does it prove any thing 
against his being the supposed author of the Vasisht/‘ha the Surya, and Soma 
Siddhantas, under feigned names, &c. the better to support the modern system of 
years introducedin A. D. 538 ; but whether he was or was not, is of no consequence 
whatever: we can ascertain pretty nearly the age of any system of astronomy, if 
genuine, though we cannot tell who framed it ; neither can we tell who has been the 
author of any book, where the name given, as generally the case, is fictitious. 
‘What gave rise to the idea of Varaha being the author of the books just mentioned 
was, that the system they contained was called that of Varaha, a name naturally 
supposed to be given to the system, in consequence of his being the real or sup- 
posed author of these works. Systems may have no names conferred on them for 
many centuries after they are framed, as is the case with that given by Aryabhatta, 
Sec. ITI. which, 1 believe, to this day has no particular name assigned to it. 


© The author pretends to have written it at the vernal equinox, beginning of the 
Satya Yuga, or 3037101 years before Christ. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 117 


The longitude of Canopus in A. D. 1750 was.... 3° 11° 30° 39 6 
_ The difference of longitude siuce the observation, © 11 80 389. 6 


Which reduced to time, at 1° in 71} years, we get 
822 years, which being taken from 1750, leaves A.D. 
928, the time of the observation. From this fact, 
supposing we had no other, it would most undoubt- 
edly appear that the Surya Siddhanta could not be 
written earlier than the 10th century. But besides 
the observation above given, we have also the time 
from the positions of the planets; which prove, that 
the system of Varaha, is even posterior to the obser- 
vation on Canopus by the supposed Vasishtha. 
Before we proceed, however, to show the time from 
the positions of the planets, it is proper that we 
should first exhibit the system, and explain its 
structure. 

The following Table exhibits the revolutions of 
the planets, &c. in 4320000000 years according to 
the system :— 


Names. Revolutions. Apsides. Nodes. 

Sau, ceccccceccceles 4320000000) Revol. 387 f 
Moon, ...ecsaceeles 57753336000).. 488203000|Revol. 232238000) 
Mercury, ...-.eee/eo * 17937024000)... 386).. 488 
Venus, ceccccvccctes 7022376000).. 535)... 903 
Mars, ..cccceees on 2296832000)... 204).. 214 
Japiter, .coccccoles 364220000!.. 900|.. 174 
Saturn, ..ccccccceles 146568000|.. $9].. 662 
Days, seesvee eeolee 1577917828000 


Revolutions of the equinoxes (in the epicycle,) 600000 


The number of years in this system, is exactly 
the same as in that of Brahma; but they do not 
commence at the same time. The system or Kalpa 


® This is the correct number : in the system it is 17937060 for a Maha Yuga, 
owing to an error in the number for the primary cycle, which should bave been 
4484256, and not 4484265. The digits are the same, but the two last are mis- 
placed ; the 6 should follow the 5. 


Digitized by Google 


118 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


of Varaha begins later by 17064000 years, a circum- 
stance owing to the formation of the revolutions of 
the planets into small cycles, for the convenience of 
calculation. Therefore, in computing the number 
of years elapsed of this system, the time must be 
first found according to the system of Brahma, as 
already shown, and from that time 17064000 must 
be deducted, to give the years elapsed of the 
system, of Varaha. Thus, at the beginning of the 
Kali Yuga, there were elapsed of the system of 
Brahma, é ee te 1972944000 ‘years. 
Deduct the above number, 17064000 

Remain time elapsed of the 

system of Varaha, - 1955880000 

Hence, it must be obvious, that the system of 
Brahma had existed and was in use long before that 
of Varaha ; as the computation of the time elapsed 
must be made in the first instance by the former 
system, otherwise we should not know when the 
latter began. 

The Kalpa of Varaha begins with Sunday, as the 
first day of the week, at the instant of midnight, on 
the meridian of Ujein ; and the Kali Yuga begins 
with Friday at midnight. The year, therefore, 
begins earlier by six hours than in the system of 
Brahma, which would therefore cause it to be some- 
thing longer; but the true length depends on other. 
circumstances. 

The revolutions of the planets given in the Table, 
all terminate with three cyphers: these being cut 
off, the remainder will be the revolutions in a Maha 
Fuga, or 4320000 years. The numbers may be 
further reduced by dividing them by four, the quo- 
tient will be the revolutions in 1080000 years ; which 
is the least common cycle, in which the planets 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 119 


return to a line of mean conjunction in the beginning, 
both of Aswini and Aries. 

The years elapsed of the system of Varaha, at the 
beginning ofthe Kali Yuga,are, asabove, 1955880000. 
If this number be divided, by the years in the least 
common cycle, 1080000, the quotient will be 1811, 
the number of cycles in that period. Now since the 
system begins with a Sunday, as the first day of the 
week, and the Kali Yuga begins with Friday, it is 
evident that the whole number of days to be assigned 
to the 1811 cycles, must, when divided by seven, 
leave a remainder of five: then the question is, how 
many odd days, over and above complete weeks, 
we must assign to each cycle, so as to answer this 
purpose. This is easily known by assuming one 
day in excess above the weeks: then 1811 cycles 
will have 1811 days, which, being divided by seven, 
leaves a remainder of five, which is the very num- 
ber we want. Therefore, each cycle must contain 
a complete number of weeks, and one day over. 

' The time elapsed from the beginning of the Kali 
Yuga at midnight, to the instant of the vernal equi- 
nox in A. D. 538, which was supposed, or assumed 
to coincide with the beginning of the Lunar Asterism 
Aswini, is 1329176 days, 6 hours, and 40 minutes 
in 3639 years: therefore, as 3639 years are to 
1329176 ** 6" 40™, so 1080000 years to 394479356 
days, rejecting fractions. If we divide this number 
by seven, there will be a remainer of five; but from 
the conditions already stated, it must be one: there- 
fore we add to the number three days more, and 
make it 394479359, from which the length of the 
year would be obtained, that would answer all the 
terms, because divisible by seven, leaving a remain- 
der of one... But the number of days to be assigned 


Digitized by Google 


120 THE MODERN. ASTRONOMY 


to the cycle of 1080000 years, must also give the 
relative motions of the sun and moon correct, and 
the lunation of a true length; in consequence of 
which, a further correction must be made to the 
time by the addition of 14 complete weeks, or 98 
days, to the above number, which will make it 
394479457 days. This number being multiplied by 
four, makes 1577917828, the number of days in the 
Maha Yuga, or 4320000 years ; and the days in a 
Maha Yuga being multiplied by 1000, the product 
will be 1577917828000, the days in a Kalpa, or 
4320000000 years, the same as in the Table: and 
the days in either of the periods being divided by the 
corresponding number of years, we get the adjusted 
length of the Hindu year, according to the system 
of Varaha, =365* 15" 31° 31'24". The length of 
the year might be computed in another manner; 
but as the result would be the same, by reason of 
the adjustment, it was thought unnecessary. Having 
found the length of the adjusted Hiridu year, we are 
now enabled to proceed to show how the revolutions 
of the planets have been obtained :—one example 
will be perfectly sufficient. 

I have shown above, that the observations of 
Vasishtha on the position of Canopus, refer us about 
to the year A. D, 928, or of the Kali Yuga 4029. Let 
us, therefore, suppose the system was framed about 
that period, and that the author had determined, by 
accurate observations, the positions of the planets 
in the Hindu sphere, at the end of the year 4029 of 
the Kali Yuga; which position formed the basis 
of the revolutions in the system. Thus, suppose 
we take Venus as an example: — 

The mean heliocentric longitude of Venus at the 
end of the year 4029 of the Kali Yuga, A.D. 928, 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 121 


March 23d. at 19° 48’ 56’, meridian of Paris, by La 
Lande’s Tables European sphere, was 4" 9° 30’ 25° 
Or Hindu sphere, : . 47 2 49 39 
Now suppose this to have been the precise position 
determined by the author, it is required to deter- 
mine the number of revolutions of the planet in the 
primary cycle of 1080000 years, that will. give this 
position, reckoning from midnight at the beginning 
of the Kali Yuga, as an epoch of mean conjunction 
of all the planets. 

The first step is to ascertain the number of revolu- 
tions made by the planet Venus, from the instant 
of midnight at the beginning of the Kali Yuga, to 
the end of the year 4029, which will be found to be 
6549. Add these to the position of the planet at 
the end of the year 4029, =—4° 2° 49’ 39", the sum will 
be Venus’s entire motion in 4029 Hindu years, = 
6549" 4° 2° 49’ 39"; then say, as 4029 years give 
6549" 4° 2° 49’ 39”, so 1080000 years will give 
1755594" 0° 22° 55’ 8", which, rejecting the frac- 
tion, (being under six signs), it will be 1755594 
revolutions in 1080000 years: this number being 
multiplied by four, we have 7022376, the revolutions 
in a Maha Yuga, or 4320000 years; and the revo- 
lutions in a Maha Yuga being multiplied by 1000, 
we have 7022376000, the revolutions in a Kalpa, the 
same as given in the Table. 

Having thus shown how the number of revolutions 
of the planet in the primary cycle of 1080000 years is 
found, let it now be applied in determining the posi- 
tion of the planet. In doing this, there is no occa- 
sion to reckon from the beginning of the Kalpa, as 
in the system of Brahma ; for in this system, we may 
commence our calculation from any point of time; 

R 


Digitized by Google 


122 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


at which the planets are assumed to have been in a 
line of mean conjunction: and as the last mean con- 
junction is assumed to have taken place at midnight, 
at the beginning of the Kali Yuga, we commence our 
calculation from thence, in preference to any other, 
as being the commencement of the cycle of 1080000 
years. 

Suppose we wanted to know the mean heliocen- 
tric longitude of Venus at the end of the year 4029 
of the Kali Yuga, (A.D. 928,) then we say, as the 
number of years in the cycle, is to the number of 
revolutions in the same, so the years elapsed since 
the beginning of Kali Yuga, to the planet’s heliocen- 
tric longitude, in revolutions, signs, &c.. Thus, for 
the year 4029 of the Kali Yuga, we have =3x"— 
6549" 4° 2° 44’ 31" 12”, which differs from the actual 
position of Venus by only 5’ 7’ 48”: this difference 
arises from the fraction 0° 22° 55’ 8", being rejected 
in forming the number of-revolutions, which must be 
always entire. 

The motions of the nodes and apsides of the 
planets being slow, making a revolution in a great 
many years, are reckoned from the beginning of a 
system, and their revolutions determined in the same 
manner as those of the planets in the system of 
Brahma, already explained. 

It must be obvious from the above example, that 
the method of computing the mean place of a planet 
by this system, is less troublesome by far in the 
operation, than in the system of Brahma. If we 
wanted to find the mean longitude of Venus for the 
end of the year 4029 of the Kali Yuga, by the latter 
system, we must find the time elapsed from the cre- 
ation, thus :— 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. . 123 


To sunrise at the beginning of the 


Kal Yuga, it is ; ‘ 1972944000 
Add, _. ; 4029 

. To the end of the year 4029 of the 
Kali Yuga, . ; : ; 1972948029 


The number of revolutions of Venus in 4320000000 
years is 7022389492: therefore the mean heliocen- 
tric longitude of Venus at the end of the year 4029 of 
the Kali Yuga, by this system, will be expressed by 
the formula: “="Saze008 — Sees? — 3207131830 
revolutions, 4° 5° 58’ 33" 23”, the mean longitude of 
Venus at the end of the year 4029 of the Kali Yuga. 
This shows not-only the great labour in the calcula- ~ 
tion, but also partly the error in position: to get the 
whole error we must compare the time; for the end 
of the year 4029 of the Kali Yuga, by the system 
of Brahma, does not coincide with the end of the 
same year by the system of Varaha. For, 4029 
years, by the system of Brahma, = 365 15“ 30° 
~ 22" 30” x 4029 = 1471626* 14% 40'52"30” and 4029 
years, by the system of Varaha, = 1471627% 31% 47' 
30" 36" the difference is, 1* 17% 6'38" 6” but the for- 
mer begins from sunrise, and the latter from mid- 
night: therefore we must diminish the difference by 
SIX hours, or 15 dandas, which will make 1* 2% 6’ 
38" 6"= 1% 0% 50™ 39" 14” 24” the real difference in 
A.D. 928. Wemust therefore add the mean motion 
of Venus for this difference = 1° 39’ 30" to 4° 5° 58’ 
33” 23” the sum is 4°7°38'3" 23” the mean longitude 
of Venus by the system of Brahma in’ A.D. 928, at 
the moment the longitude by the system of Varaha 
was 4°2°44'31" 12” which, as the latter only differed 
5' 7” 48” from the truth, shows how erroneous the 
system of Brahma had become at that time; though 
in A.D. 538, when it was framed, it gave the place 


Digitized by Google 


124 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


of Venus to within 6’ 41" of the truth. This is, in 
fact, the case with every system: they are all cor- 
rect, or nearly so when framed, but not so at any 
considerable distance of time, either before or after. 
The mean longitude. of Venus, by the system of 
Varaha at the end of the year 4029 of the Kali Yuga, 
was found above not to differ 6’ from the truth; but 
will it give the position of that planet in A.D. 
538, or the end of the year 3639 of the Kali Yuga, 
with the same degree of correctness? Most cer- 
tainly not, because it was not then framed. The 
mean longitude of Venus at the end of the year 
3639 of the Kali Yuga, by the system of Varaha= 
Sa ; : 4* 15° 31’ 19” 12” 
By LaLande’s Tables for the 

same instant, H. sphere, 4 18 46 3 44 
Error in A.D. 538, ; 0 3 14 44 32 


And if we carried our calculations still farther back 
into antiquity, the error would be found to increase 
in proportion to the time, so that at the beginning of 
the Kali Yuga the error would amount to 32° 43' 36". 
Upon this change in the error in proportion to the 
time, is founded the method of determining the an- 
tiquity of astronomical systems or books; and, in 
fact, it is not only the surest, but the very best that 
can be employed. If there were no errors, or if the 
errors were always the same, then we should have 
no data to proceed on; but this supposition is in its 
nature impossible: there never yet was found any 
set of astronomical tables or systems, whether Eu- 
ropean or otherwise, that did not in progress of time 
become more and more inaccurate, by the continual 
accumulation of the errors in the mean annual 
motions. : 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 125 


We shall now proceed to show the antiquity of 
the system of Varaha, in the same manner as we did 
that of Brahma, by dividing the errors in position at 
the beginning of the Kali Yuga by the errors in the 
mean annual motions. 

The following Table shows the positions of the - 
planets, both by the system and La Lande’s Tables, 
at the instant of midnight, at the beginning of the 
Kali Yuga, on the meridian of Ujein, 75° 50' east of 
Greenwich. 


THE TABLE. 

By La Lande, H. Sphere. By the System. Errors or Differences. 
Sun, ......0.. Of 0° OY O”| .. 08 0° 0’ Of o* of 0 Oo 
Moon,......5 0 0 5 56/.. 0 0 0 0 —-0 0 5 56 

Apogee, 4 0 11 25/.. 300 0 —1 oO 11 2 

Node, 6 6 22 29/.. 600 0 + 0 23 27 31 
Mercury,.... 10 26 34 25|.. 0 0 0 0 +1 3 28 35 
Venus,...... 1 2 43 36]).. 0 0 0 0 —1 2 43 86 
Mars, ...... 11 17 54 18} .. 0 00 0 +0 12 6 42 
Jupiter,..... 0 17 2 53).. 0 0 0 0 —0 17 2 58 
Saturn, ..... 11 9 0 57/1... 0 0 0 0 +0 20 59 8 


And the following Table exhibits the mean annual 
motions of the planets, both by the system and 
La Lande’s Tables, with the differences or errors. 


Mean Annual Motions of the Planets, §c. Hindu Sphere. 


By La Lande’s Tables. By the System. Differences, 


San, ...... 12* 0° 0’ 0” os 128 0° OW Of 
Moon,.... 4 12 46 40 613 | .. 4 12 46 40 8] .... 


+ 0”,187 

Apogee, 1 10 40 35 ,591 | .. 1.10 41 00 ,9 + 
——Node, 0 19 21 31,090 | .. 0919 21 11 4 ae 
Mercury,.. 1 24 46 36 ,943 | .. 12445 7 ,2 ~ 
Venus,...6 7 15 11 23 685 | .. 7 16 11 52 8 + 
Marsa, .... 6 11 24 19 ,16 «+ 61124 9 6 - 
Jupiter, ... 1 0 20 50 483] .. 1 021 6 0 + 
Saturn, .... 01213 9,343] .. 0 12 12 50 - 


Dividing the errors in position at the beginning of 
the Kali Yuga, by the differences in the mean annual 
motions, we have from 


Digitized by Google 


126 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


Years. 
The Moon, .. 5°56" + (7' 26” the Sec. Eq.) divided by 0”,187 —4288 
—— Apogee, 80°11? 25” .peseceseeoeceee sees BY 25 809 =4204 
Node, .. 23 27 $1 seaccccccvccessecsee DY 19 690 4289 
Mercury, «- 33 25 35 cecccecccccccccecces DY 29 5743 =4046 
Venus, .. »- 32 43 36 ceccccccsccccccceese DY 29 ,165 =4040 
Mars, .- -« 12 BAD vccccccscecccccssseeby 9,55 =4559 
Jupiter,.. .. 17 DZ BS cccccecececscccceces by 15 ,517 =4032 
Saturn, .. «2 20 59 8 wseccececeee seoveeee by 18 943 =3988 


The sum is cccccccccccccccencccsccsceraacesesvcsseesersseee 33536 
Which divided by 8, gives for a mean result, .ccccccscecscesseces A192 


Or the year A.D. 1091: whence it appears that the 
system must have been framed a good many years 
after the observation attributed to Vridha Vasishtha 
on the star Canopus, above mentioned. 

We shall now exhibit the errors in the positions 
of the planets, &c. by the system, compared with 
La Lande’s Tables, at different periods, from the be- 
ginning of the Kali Yuga down to the year 4192, or 
A.D. 1091 in the Table following : 


Planets, | Kali Yoga. | Kali Yoga | Kali Yuga 
&e. 1000. 2000. 


Kali Yuga | K. Y. 3639,| K. Y. 4192. 
3000. 538 A.D. | 1091 A.D. 


—0°18’30"|—0° 0/11” 
—4 3626 |—0 4310 


Moon,* |— 5°52/41"|— 3°50’48"— 2° 9/17" 
Gone} —30 1125 |-28 936 |—16 747 
Oe Q} 4.23 2731 [417 5921 [+12 3111 
Mercury, |+33 2535 |+26 952|+1654 9 
Venus, |—-32 4336 |—24 8731 |—16 31 26 
Mars, {+12 542|+ 9 2632]4 6 4722 
; —12 4416 |— 8 2539 
+15 4320 | 410 2737 


+3 3319 |+0 3150 


+3 2140 )—1 1228 
—3 1445 |+114 8 
+2 2630 |+0 5829 
—1 2147 /+0 4114 
+15010 j—1 425 


The above Table serves to show, by mere in- 
spection, the time at, or near which the system was 
framed, by the gradual decrease in the errors down 
to the year A.D 1091, after which they would again 
increase. ; 

_ Having already given the Lunar Asterisms in treat- 
Ing of the system of Brahma, it might be considered 
as altogether unnecessary to repeat them over again 


ra 


* Including the secular equation. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 127 


here from the system of Varaha, since from their 
very nature being sideral and consequently fixed, 
they must be the same, or nearly so, by all Hindu 
writers, whether ancient or modern, except where 
errors may have crept in. But the author of the 
Surya Siddhanta having noticed in that work, certain 
deviations in the positions of some of the stars, by 
which they appear to fall into other Lunar Asterisms, 
different in name from those to which they originally 
did belong, I am, therefore, induced to give them 
here a place, for the purpose of explaining the cause 
of the deviation alluded to. 


Table of the Lunar Asterisms, according to the Surya Siddhanta. 


Stars supposed to be 
intended. 


Names. 


1 Aswini, ** or 6 Arietis. 


2 Bharani, ee 6 ditto. 
3 Kritika, oo | 5 Alcyone? 
4 Rohini, 5 87 Tauri. 
0 113, 116,117 Tauri? 
9 133 Tauri? 
6 N 98 «0 8 Geminorum. 
0 106 «0 & Cancri. 
7 S 109 «60 49, 50 Cancri. 
0 N./| 129 0 Cor Leonis. 
P. Phalguni, .. | 12- 144 #0 70, 71 Leonis, 
U. Phalguni, ., | 13 155 0 B Leonis.! 
13 Hasta, ee | 1 1700=«(O 7, 8 Corvi. 
14 Chitra, « 2 180 0 Spica Virginis. 
15 Swati, ee | 37 N.| 199 0 Arctarus. 
16 Visakha, os 1305S. | 213 0 24 Libre. 
17 Anuradha, 8 224 «0 B Scorpii. 
4 229 «0 Antares. 
9 241 0 84, 35 Scorpii. 
P. Ashad’ha, 5 30 254 0 6 Sagittarii. 
U. Ashad’ha,a.. | 5 260 0 ¢ Sagittarii. 
* Abhijit, b.. | 60 N. | 266 40 a Lyre. 
22 Sravand, 30 280 «60 
36 290 0 
0 30S. | 320 0 d Aquarii. 
24 N. | 326 0 a Pegasi. 
26 337 0 Pegasi. 
0 359 50 Piscium. 


* What are called latitades and longitudes in this Table, are only the distances 
already explained at page 99 by the Diagram. 


Digitized by Google 


128 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


By comparing the above Table with the one given 
under the system of Brahma, it will appear, that in 
general they agree, or at least nearly so: they differ, 
however, in one or two instances, very materially, 
which must be attributed to errors having crept in 
by miscopying. In the table of the Brahma Sid- 
dhanta, the star Purva Phalguni, @ Leonis, stands in 
147° from Aswini; but by the Surya Siddhanta, it 
should be 144°: the latter is nearer the truth. Spica 
Virginis, Chitra, is placed by the Brahma Siddhanta 
in 6° 3°, or 183° from Aswini; but the Surya Siddhanta 
places it in 6’, or 180°, making’ a difference of three 
degrees. In this respect, the Surya Siddhanta is in 
error. For, taking the position of Cor Leonis as 
correctly given, it geing the same by all Hindu 
books, then Spica should be in 6° 3°: for the differ- 
ence in longitude between Cor Leonis and Spica, by 
European books, is about 54°; which being added to 
the longitude of Cor Leonis, 129°, we get 183°, the 
longitude of Spica, agreeing with the Brahma Sid- 
dhanta. A few other differences may be observed, 
but they are of less importance. 

Now with respect to the passage above alluded 
to, the author of the Surya Siddhanta states, that the 
star Uttara Ashad’ha, (No. 21,) falls into the middle 
of Purva Ashad'ha, (No. 20); that the star Abhjjit, 
(marked in the table with an *,) falls into the end 
of Purva Ashad'ha, (No. 20); that the star Sravana, 
(No. 22,) falls into the end'of Uttara Ashad‘ha, (No. 
21); and that the star Dhanisht'ha, (No. 23,) is in 
the end of the third quarter of Sravana, (No. 22). 
All this, though strange in appearance, is very true, 
and easily accounted for. The star Abhijit is given 
as the key to the mystery; for it does not belong to 
the division of the zodiac into 27 parts, and could 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 129 


not, therefore, fall into any Lunar Asterism of its 
own name. At the commencement of the Hindu 
astronomy, the zodiac was divided into 28 equal 
parts, each containing 12° 51'}, and the first of such 
divisions was called Mula, thereby to signify that it 
was the root or origin in theseries. This division of 
the zodiac, was, however, found to be rather incon- 
venient in the practice of astronomy: therefore it 
was changed to 27 equal portions, each containing 
13° 20’. The first of these divisions was called 
Jyesht'ha, to denote that it was the first or eldest in 
the series, and began from the same point in the 
heavens as Mula in the division of 28. The star 
that belonged to Mula was Antares, and its longi- 
tude was about 2° 25’ from the beginning of that 
asterism, and consequently had the same longitude 
in the Lunar Asterism Jyesht’ha. In this new ar- 
rangement, Abhyit was thrown out; but the names 
of all the rest were retained, though not to the same 
stars that originally belonged to them. The name 
Mula was given to the second, or next mansion to 
Jyeshtha, and other changes made to answer the ar- 
rangement. The following short Table will explain 
the cause of the deviations : — 


Division of Twenty-eight Division of Twenty-seven 
ansions of 12° 51°3-7 each.| Mansions of 13° 20’ each. | Stars supposed to be 
ee intended. 
Names. Longitude. 


1 Mula 2° 25’ 1 Jyesh@ ha, Antares. 
2 P. Ashaaha,{1 28 4-7) 2 Nirité 6 Sagittarii. 
3.U. Asha@ha,\t 37 1-7) 3 P. Ashawha, “3 
x38 U. Ashawha,|? 37 1-7) 3 Ps Ashad’na, ¢@ Sagittarii. 
ij 25 5-7| 3 . 


54 2-7) 4 U. Asha@ha, 
x6 Danisht’ha, (0 0 5 Sravana, 


This Table, as far as it has been thought necessary 
to carry it, contains the corresponding positions of 
Ss 


Digitized by Google 


130 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


the stars in both divisions. Thus the longitude of 
the star in Mula 2° 25' in the division of 28, is the 
same in Jyesht’ha in the division of 27. The longi- 
tude 1° 28' 4-7 in P. Askad’Ad, in the division of 28, 
becomes 1° in Niriti. The star U. Ashad'ha, whose 
longitude is 7° 37' I-7 in the division of 28, falls into 
6°40' of P. Ashad'ha, in the division of 27. The star 
Abhijit, whose longitude is 1° 25’ 5-7 in the mansion 
Abhijit, in the division of 28, falls into the end, or 
13° 20' of P. Ashad'ha of the division of 27. The 
longitude of the star Sravand, 1° 54' 2-7 im the 
division of 28, falls into the end, or 13° 20' of 
U. Ashad'ha; and the star in the beginning of De- 
nishiha in the division of 28, falls into 10° 57° of 
Sravana in the division of 27: the whole of which 
Corresponding to what the author of the Surya Sidd- 
hanta states, and shewing, in a clear manner, that 
the cause of the supposed deviations, arises from 
still using the names of three Lunar Asterisms, which 
belong: to the division of 28, without its being known 
er suspected that they are so. Mr. Colebrooke says, 
the eause arises from the longitudes being reckoned 
by the circles of declinations, and not by the circles 
of latitude, cutting the ecliptic; but this circumstance 
could not cause the deviations alluded to. We shall 
now. take a view of the subject of the precession of 
the equinoxes. The methed given in the system of 
Varaha (eontained in the Surya Siddhanta), for com- 
puting the precession, differing widely from that of 
the system of Brahma, a particular explanation of 
the cause and foundation of that method may perhaps 
not only be acceptable, but also useful in doing 
away the incorrect notions that have been enter- 
tained by some on that subject. 

By the system of Brahma, the number of revolu- 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. — 131 


tions of the equinoxes in a Ka/pa, or 4320000000 
years = 199669. These revolutions are retrograde, 
and were determined in the same manner as those of 
the planets already explained. Now, suppose we 
wanted to determine the precession of the equinoxes 
for the end of the year 4900 of the Kak Yuga (A.D. 
1799), from this number, we must first find the yeats 
elapsed of the system, thus : — 

To the een of the Kali eee 1972944000 

Add, ; : 4900 


Total years to April1799, 1972948900 
Then we get the precession by the following for- 
mula, viz. 

Re ae = a = I1189" OF 21° 9' 34°.205 ; that 
is to say, the precession of the equinoxes was then 
(April, A.D. 1799), 21° 9' 35".205, or the quantity 
by which the vernal equinoctial point had fallen 
back from the beginning of Aswint. This example 
is sufficient to show how troublesome the operation 
of finding the precession is, from the number given 
in the system of Brahma. So it must have likewise 
appeared to the author of the system of Varaha: but 
how to remedy the evil was a task of no small diffi- 
culty. He succeedéd in lessening the labour of cal- 
culating the places of the planets, by giving their 
revolutions in small cycles: but here that method 
could not answer, because the period of one single 
revolution of the equinoxes, would exceed 25000 
years; and to begin such periods from the com- 
mencement of the Kalpa, they would become equally 
as troublesome, in computation, as the number in the 
system of Brahma. Therefore, to avoid all this, he 
conceived, that as the most perfect astronomical 


Digitized by Google 


- 


132 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 
/ 


system that was ever framed could not always last, 
the best plan would be, to make his rule answer 
within a certain limited period of time. He was 
aware, that the earliest observation the Hindus had 
on record, only placed the vernal equinoctial point 
in the beginning of Kritica, or 26° 40’ to the east of 
the beginning of Aswini: therefore, by taking into 
‘his rule, as far as 27° on the east side, and just as 
many on the west side, he would not only include 
the most ancient observations, but also give a suffi- 
cient scope of time to elapse before his rule would 
become useless. The next thing was to adjust this 
space of 27° on each side of the beginning of Aswini, 
to time and circular motion; for without the idea of 
circular motion, he could not connect it with his 
system. He therefore assumed the space of time in 
which the equinoxes would fall back 54°, or 27° x 2, 
at 3600 years. Then, to get a circular motion, he 
assumed the equinoxes to move in the periphery of 
an epicycle, the centre of which is fixed to the be- 
ginning of Aswini, and the dimensions of the peri- 
phery 108°, or 54° x 2, so that one complete revolu- 
tion of the equinoxes in the epicycle would be 7200 
years. By this ingenious contrivance, he transfers 
the 54° in the zodiac to the periphery of the epicycle, 
-of which it takes up the lower half. The rest of the 
‘contrivance will now be explained by the following 
Diagram : — . 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 133 


Let the large circle. be the Hindu zodiac, divided 
into 12 parts or signs, and marked Ist, 2nd, 
3rd, &c. 

And ABCD the epicycle, the centre of which is 

at 12 in the beginning of Aswini. 

The line AC, divides the epicycle into two equal 
halves; and as it cuts through the beginning of 
Aswini at 12, its two extremities in the periphery of 
the epicycle form the points of superior and inferior 
conjunctions, where the precession is nothing. In 
the point B the precession is at its greatest quantity 
to the east, viz. 27°, and in the point D it is at its 
' greatest quantity to the west, or 27°, these being the 
limits beyond which it does not increase by the rule. - 


Digitized by Google 


134 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


From A to B the precession increases from 0 to 27°, 
in proportion to the time; from B to C it diminishes 
from 27° to 0; from C to D it again increases from 0 
to 27°; and from D to A it diminishes from 27° to0; 
thus making a complete revolution from west to east 
through 108° in 7200 years, being twice within that 
period in 0, or in the extremities of line AC, and twice 
in points of greatest precession B,D. Now to show 
how this scheme has been applied to the system, we 
have the number of years elapsed of the system of 
Varaha, at the beginning of Kali Yuga=1955880000: 
at the commencement of this period of years, the 
vernal equinoctial point coincided with the begin- 
ning of Aswinz, in the point A of the epicycle: there- 
fore, dividing the years elapsed by 7200, the years 
in one revolution, we have ““""— 271650 revolu- 
tions, complete without a remainder: consequently, 
at the beginning of Kali Yuga, the vernal equinoctial 
point would be again in A, in the beginning of the 
epicycle commencing another revolution. At the 
end of 1800 years from the beginning of the Kali 
Yuga, the equinoctial point would arrive at B, where 
its distance from Aswini, reckoned on the periphery 
of the epicycle, would be 27° to the east. The vernal 
equinoctial point, still moving onwards in the peri- 
phery, diminishes its distance from Aswin?, until in 
the year 3600 of the Kak Yuga, A.D. 499, it coin- 
cided with the point C or 0, being then in the line 
with the beginning of Aswini ; and therefore in that 
year the precession was 0. Since that time, the 
equinoctial point proceeds from C towards D; and 
therefore the precession must continually increase, 
until it amounts to 27° at D; after which (by the 
scheme), it proceeds from D to A, and completes the 
revolution. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 135 


From the explanation thus given, it must be easy 
to perceive how the precession is to be computed. 
In 1800 years, the precession increases to its greatest 
quantity, 27°. Therefore all that we have to do, is 
to say, as 1800 years, to 27°, so any number of ‘years 
less than 1800, to the corresponding precession ; 
which is to be counted to the east of Aswin?, in the 
two first quadrants of the epicycle, but to the west 
in the two last. 

Thus, suppose we wanted to know the precession 
of the equinoxes, or the distance of the vernal equi- 
noctial point from the beginning of Aswini, for the 
’ end of the year 4900 of the Keli Yuga, (A.D. 1799,) 
we subtract two periods of 1800 years each =3600, 
the remainder is 1300 years; then 1800: 27°:: 1300: 
19° 30’, which is to the west of the beginning of 
Aswini, being in the third period of the cycle. This 
example is given for the same year, that the calcu- 
Jation was made for by the system of Brahma, in 
order to show the difference in labour, &c.: by the 
latter, the precession was found to be 22° 9’ 34.2, 
which is nearest the truth. 

I have been more particular in my explanation of 
the contrivance of the author of the system of Varaha 
for calculating the precession of the equinoxes, than 
perhaps, was necessary ; but my reason for it was to 
do away an erroneous notion that appeared to be. 
entertained by some who called the motion a libra-. 
tton*, or oscillation of the equinoxes, instead of a 
complete revolution, which the author himself ex~ 
pressly mentions; for he says: ‘The Ayanansa 
moves eastward thirty times. twenty =(600) in eack 
Maha Yuga.” therefore each revolution =" =7200 


* As, Res. Vol. xii. p. 212, 217, 218. 


Digitized by Google 


136 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


years, which, therefore, must be conceived to be in 
an epicycle, as described above. The Sacalya San- 
hita states, ‘‘that the Bhaganas, (revolutions, ) of the 
Crantipata, (point of intersection of the ecliptic and 
equator,)in a Maha Yuga, (4320000 years,) are 600 
eastward,” in which I see not the slightest shadow 
_ for conceiving the idea of an oscillation, or libration, 
at least not according to my conception of the terms. 
The commentator on the Surya Siddhanta is still 
more explicit. He says: ‘‘ The Bhaganas, (revolu- 
tions,) of the Ayanansa, (equinoctial points,) in a 
Maha Yuga, (4320000 years, ) are 600; one Bhagana, 
(or revolution) of the Ayandnsa, therefore, contains 
7200 years. He then describes how the revolution 
is divided, thus: ‘‘ Of a Bhagana, (revolution, ) there 
are four padas, quadrants, or parts. First Pada, 
when there was no Ayandnsa,” (as when the vernal 
equinoctial point was at C in the epicycle, in A. D. 
499 ;) “but the Ayanansa, (precession,) beginning 
from that time, and increasing (from C to D,) it 
was added. It continued increasing 1800 years, 
when it became at its utmost, or 27°, (as at D in the 
epicyle.) Second Pada, (or quadrant) after this it 
diminished; but the amount was still added, (be- 
cause to the west of Aswin?,) until the end of 1800 
years more, it was diminished to nothing, (as at 
A in the epicycle.) Third Pada, the Ayanansa 
for the next 1800 years was deducted; (that is 
. from A to B, because to the east of Aswini;) and the 
amount deducted at the end of that term was 
twenty-seven degrees. Fourth Pada, (from B. to 
C,) the amount of deduction diminished; and at: 
the end of the next term of 1800 years, there was 
nothing either added or subtracted,” because it 
had then returned to C, where the precession was 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 137 


nothing, being in a line with the beginning of Aswint. 
The commentator, however, has made a mistake; 
for the first Pada, or quadrant of the revolution did 
not begin at C, but at A, for this reason, that the 
rule was intended to give the precession from B to 
C, and.from C to D, the other two quadrants being 
fictitious, and added merely to introduce into the 
calculation a circular motion: and as the quadrant 
BC was prior in point of time, to C D, it must fol- 
low, that CD could not be the first quadrant, con- 
sistently either with calculation or the nature of the 
scheme. But in the system of Aryabhatta, which 
the commentator seems to have followed, the first 
quadrant begins at C, which may have occasioned 
the mistake. 

In all this contrivance, I see nothing that could 
support in the slightest degree the opinion that has 
been formed by some, that the author of the Surya - 
Siddhanta believed in a libration of the equinoxes. 
We may suppose any thing, if we do not chuse to 
give ourselves the trouble of investigating, and fairly 
entering into the author's ideas and intentions, which 
we should always hold in view. An erroneous 
opinion must be always the consequence, when the 
matter before us is not properly understood; of 
which we have repeated and most decisive proofs, 
in various instances. 


Digitized by Google 


138 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


SECTION III. 


The Arya Siddhanta —by Aryabhatta — Its date, A. D. 1822 —The object of it 
— The system it contains — Its formation —Precession of the equinoxes— 
Mode of computing it The Rishis —The object of introducing them, and the 
manner of computing their place — The Parasara Siddhanta, and the object of 
the author in exhibiting it — The system of the Parasara Siddhanta — The com- 
putation of the Rishis by this system — Age of the Arya Siddhanta, confirmed 
by computations from Astronomical Data—Age of the system of Parasara 
determined — Found to be of the same age with that of Aryabhatta — Lati- 
tudes and Longitudes of the Stars—Geometry of Aryabhatta same as 
Bhaskara’s— His rules for shewing the proportion of the diameter of a circle 
to its circumference, &c. 


Tue next astronomical work in point of antiquity, 
that I have met with, is the Arya Siddhanta, written 
by Aryabhatta, in the year 4423 of the Kali Yuga, or 
A.D. 1322. It is divided into eighteen chapters or 
sections, in the first of which he gives both the date 
and the system.. His principal objects appear to 
have been, first, to give a system that would give the 
position of the planets, agreeing with their real places 
in the heavens, in his own time, much nearer the 
truth than could be then obtained from either the 
Brahma Siddhanta, the Surya Siddhanta, or any other 
work then extant. Secondly, to support the modern 
impositions respecting the introduction of immense 
periods of years into their history ; and, lastly, to 
endeavour, by a curious contrivance, to pervert the 
meaning of the passage I have mentioned and ex- 
plained in a former part of this essay, respecting the 
Rishis being in Magha in the time of Yudhisthira, 


Digitized by Google 


- OF THE HINDUS. 139 


Parasara, &c. Before, however, we can enter on 

this discussion, it will be proper to give Aryabhatta’s 

system entire in the following Table: 
ARYABHATTA'S SYSTEM, 


FROM THE FIRST CHAPTER OF THE ARYA SIDDHANTA. 


Revolutions of the Planets, Apsides, and Nodes in 4320000000 Years. 


Names. 


San, secsccceveceles 4320000000|Revol. 


Moon, .cooevees ;.|-.  57763334000}.. 232313354 
Mercury, .....seclee 17937054671 524 
Venus, crcocesece oe 702237 1432).. : : 947 
Mars, wecccececslee 2296831000]... as 298 


Jupiter, ‘ 364219682)... 96 
Saturn, .. 146569000}... 620 
Revolutions of the Rishis in a Kalpa, ...csecsecee 1599998 
Revolations of the equinoxes in the epicycle in ditto, 578159 
Solar months .......ccceccssececcccee in ditto, 51840000000 
Lanations ......scsecscccccccceescecce in ditty, 53483334000 
Intercalary months .........ecsceeeeces in ditto, 1593334000 
Tithis, or lunar days ......sccccceeeses in ditto, 1603000620000 
Intercalary tithis .......cecsccscosacece in ditto, 25082478000 
Sideral days 6... ..c.ceeececeeccacees in ditto, 1682237542000 
Natural days ....... cocccccsceevcece in ditto, 1577917542000 


The system of Aryabhatta begins on Sunday, as 
the first day of the week, on the meridian of Ujein, 
at sunrise: and the number of years elapsed of: the 
system, is known by deducting 3024000, from the 
years elapsed of the system of Brahma. Thus, by 
the system of Brahma, the years elapsed at the 


beginning of the ' 
: Kali Yuga were,.....s0.s00e0% peccssencsscccsccccccece 1972944000 
Deduct, ....ccccvercccccccencscccnscccccscvevcsesece 3024000 


Remain years elapsed, by the system of Aryabhatta, ........ 1969920000 
The length of the year — 1577917542000 .. 3654 15¢= 31’ 17” 6” 


The system of Aryabhatta, was constructed pre- 
cisely on the same principle as that of Brahma: 


Digitized by Google 


140 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


therefore no further explanation is necessary here, 
except, that the differences between the numbers 
arise from the systems being framed for two distinct 
periods of time ; that of Brahma, for the year A. D. 

538, and that of ‘Aryabhatta, for the year A. D. 1322; 

for it may be easily conceived, that the numbers that 
will answer at one particular period of time, will not 
answer at another. 

The computation of the precession of the equinoxes, 
by the system of Aryabhatta, is on a similar plan 
with that given in the Surya Siddhanta, already ex- 
plained ; but by no means so convenient in practice. 
Aryabhatta gives 578159 revolutions of the equi- 
noxes, in the epicycle, in 4320000000 years ; which 
makes one revolution equal to 7471.993 years, or 
say, for common practice, 7472 years, whereas the 
Surya Siddhanta makes it 7200 years. The number 
of revolutions of the equinoxes in the epicycle, 
to the beginning of the Kali Yuga, by the system 
of Aryabhatta = "57" = 26364 revolutions, and 
.504, or a little more than half a revolution over 
and above. This .504, being the only part we 
want, might be got much easier by multiplying 
the three last figures of 578159 by 456, reserving 
only the three right hand figures in the product, 
thus, 159 x456=.504. Now, as one revolution, 
is to 7472 years, so the fraction .504 to 3765.888 
years; or the number of years elapsed at the be- 
ginning of the Kali Yuga since the vernal equi- 
noctial point was in the beginning of the epicycle: 
subtract half a period, or 3736, the remainder 
29.888, or near 30 years, was the time anterior 
to the beginning of Kali Yuga, when the equinoctial 
point was in the middle of the epicycle. The di- 
mensions of the epicycle in the system of Aryabhatta 


eae, by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 141 


is 96°, that is to say, each quadrant 24°; but in the 
Surya Siddhanta, each quadrant is 27°: in other 
respects, the explanation is the same. From a 
fourth part of the entire revolution =1868 years, 
subtract 29.888, we get 1838.112, the year of the 
Kali Yuga, when the precession was 24° eastward 
by this system ; and as it decreased from that time, 
if we add one fourth of a revolution, or 1868 years, 
we get 3706.112, the year of the Kali Yuga, when 
the precession was nothing, and the vernal equinoc- 
tial point in the beginning of the epicycle, in a line 
with the beginning of the Lunar Asterism Aswini. 
This corresponded to the year A.D. 605. From 
these data, it is easy to determine the precession at 
any time since the year 3706, by the rule of propor- 
.tion, by saying, as 1868 years to 24 degrees, so the 
number of years elapsed since the year 3706 to the 
precession. -Thus, suppose required for the year of 
the Kali Yuga 4900, (A.D. 1799,) subtract 3706, 
the remainder is 1914; then as 1868: 24°:: 1194: 
15° 20’ 25”, the precession, or distance of the vernal 
equinoctial point from the Lunar Asterism Aswini, 
reckoning on the periphery of the epicycle to the 
west. This quantity is by far too small, owing to 
the erroneous rate of precession made use of by 
Aryabhatta, which he makes only 46".2526 per 
annum. The precession for the year 4423 of the 
Kali Yuga, (A.D. 1322,) when Aryabhatta wrote, 
would, by the same rule, be 9° 12’ 43’. 

Having thus explained the precession according 
to the scheme of Aryabhatta, we shall now proceed 
to show his contrivance for doing away, or pervert- 
ing the original meaning of the passage already 
alluded to, respecting the Rishis being in Magha in 
the time of Yudhisthira, Parasara, &c. which term 


Digitized by Google 


142 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


I have already explained in pp. 64, 65, 66, and sim- 
ply related to the precession of the equinoxes, and 
the motions of the Lunar Mansions depending on 
them, reckoning from the year 1192 B.C. when 
there was no precession, the fixed and moveable 
Lunar Mansions of the same name, then coinciding. 
Aryabhatta, finding this passage an obstacle in the 
way of transferring the ancient history of the Hindus 
to the immense periods of the modern system of 
Brahma, thought he might be able to remove the’ 
difficulty, by giving it a different explanation and 
turn; which would at once, with all the astronomers 
and Brahmins, immortalize his name for ever. For 
this purpose, he assumed the Rishis, (the seven stars 
in the Great Bear,) to have a particular motion of 
themselves, different from all the rest of the stars, 
by which they moved, or were feigned to move 
eastward, at the rate of 13° 20’, or one Lunar Man- 
sion every hundred years, or nearly so; thereby 
making a complete revolution in about 2700 years, 
or rather 1599998 revolutions in a Kalpa,° or 
4320000000 years as given by himself in the 
system. : 

At the commencement of his Kalpa, (1969920000 
years before the beginning of the Kali Yuga,) he 
assumes the line of the Rishis to be in the beginning 
-of Aswini. Therefore, to find the position of that 
line at the beginning of the Kali Yuga, multiply the 
three right hand ‘digits of the number 1599998 by 
456, reserving the three right hand figures in the 
product, and we have 998 x 456 =.088, the decimal 
parts of a revolution at the beginning of the Kali 
Yuga ; to find the value of which in years, say, as 
I". ; 2700 3: .088": 237.6%" which shows, that at 
the beginning of the Kali Yuga, 237 years and 6-10ths 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. . 143 


had elapsed from the time the Rishis were in Aswini ; 
and as.the Rishis were feigned to move one Lunar 
Mansion. to the east, every hundred years, the man- 
sion in which tHe line of the Rishis then -fell into, 
was Kritica, 37 years. Now to find the time of 
Parasara, &c. we must add 100 years for each Lunar 
Mansion, till we come down to Magha, thus : — 


. Remainder of Kritica, . . years 62.4 


Add for Rohini, o> ae 100 
for Mrigasiras, eet 100 
for Ardra, e. ce. te 100 
for Punarvasu, we, ee 100 
: for Pushyd, ne ae 100 
for Aslesha, - oe Ss 100 


Total to the beginning of Magha, 662.4 


So that by this silly contrivance, the Rishis were 
feigned to be in the beginning of Magha, in the 663d 
year of the Kali Yuga, or B.C. 2439; and Parasara, 
Yudhisht/hira, &c. who lived between five and six 
hundred years before Christ, were thrown back into 
antiquity upwards of 1800 years; nay, upwards of 
_4500 years, if he meant to place them in the Dwapar 
Yuga; for, in that case, we must go back one full 
period of 2700 years more. But neither of these 
agree even with the modern system, and not at all 
with the ancient method. It is natural, therefore, 
to suppose that Aryabhatta’s imposition would not 
gain credit, but, on the contrary, be opposed. For, 
Aryabhatta’s contemporaries would naturally ask, 
where.did he get-all this supposed knowledge? for 
he could know no more on matters of antiquity than 
they themselves did ; and, moreover, that the Rishis 
had no other motions in the heavens, but what all . 


Digitized by Google 


144 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


the stars had in common. To silence all such im- 
pertinent questions, and to put all cavils to an end, 
he conceived that the best plan would be to follow 
up the imposition by another of a more formal 
nature, and against which, the same arguments that 
might be used against himself as a modern, could 
not so effectually apply. This was nothing more 
nor less than to forge and construct another work 
and father it on Parasara, giving it the name of the 
Pardasara Siddhanta. By this second piece of impo- 
sition, he could reply, that whether the Rishis had a 
separate motion of their own, differing from all the 
rest of the stars, or not, was a matter that had nothing 
to do with him, or whether he believed in such mo- 
tion or not; that the ancients had employed it for 
the purpose of computation, and as a proof of it, that 
it still existed in the genuine work of Parasara, enti- 
tled the Parasara Siddhanta ; and that if they did not 
believe that work, they would not believe Parasara 
himself, if he rose from the dead to confirm it. Such, 
I conceive, would naturally be the arguments that 
would be employed by Aryabhatta to support his 
impositions. Having thus far explained the matter, 
we shall now give the system of Pardasara, from the 
second chapter of the Arya Siddhanta. 


SYSTEM OF PARASARA. 


Revolutions of the Planets, §c. in a Kalpa, or 4320000000 Years, according to the 
Pardsara Siddhanta. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 145 


Revolutions of the seven Rishis in 4320000000 years = 1599998 
Revolations of the equinoxes in the epicycle in ditto, _ 581709 
Solar months .ecsccccccsccccccceccees in ditto, 51840000000 
Lumations ......cccecccscevece Deseceee in ditto, 53433334515 
Intercalary ditto cc... . cece cecesesceees in ditto, 1593334515 
Tithis, or lunar days ....ceceees deeeee in ditto, 1603000035450 
Natural days .ececes cosccccscsccscee in ditte, 1577917570000 
Intercalary lunar days....cesccccccseese in dittoy 25082465450 
Sideral days .....cseccccsecceucesces in ditto, 1582237570000 


This system was constructed precisely in the same 
manner as the system of Brahma, and therefore re- 
quires no further explanation on that account here. 
The number of years elapsed of the system at the 
beginning of the Kali Yuga, is the same as in the 
“system of Brahma, viz. 1972944000, and the days 
elapsed to the same epoch were 719530411920. The 
Kalpa also begins on Sunday at sunrise, on the 
meridian of Ujein, where in fact the system was 
framed. 

From the circumstance of the years elapsed at the 
beginning of the Kali Yuga, being the same as in the 
system of Brahma, a person unacquainted with the 
structure of these systems, would wonder why the 
revolutions of the planets, apsides, and nodes, are 
not the same in both. The reason is this, the system 
of Brahma was constructed to give the positions of 
the planets when its author lived, that is, about A.D. 
538. The system of Parasara, for the same reason, 
was constructed to give the positions of the planets 
in the time of its inventor, that is to say, in the time 
of Aryabhatta, or about A.D.1322. For the same 
number of revolutions of the planets will not give 
their positions true at two distant periods of time; . 
and hence arises the necessity of forming new sys- 
tems, from time to time. 

U 


Digitized by Google 


146 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


The esas of the year, by the system of Pardsara, = 


PT ereTT reer reer eer ere eee ee 3654 15° 31’ 18” 30” 

By the Arya Siddhanta, itis ......cecccucesccece 365° 15 31 17 6 
The time of one revolation of the easingx in the epicy- 

cle, by the system ¢ Of Pardsara, cessececvesecs =7426.3936 
By the system of the Arya Siddhanta, it is........05 =>7471.993 
The greatest precession of the equinoxes east and west, 

by the former, ......ccecceccscceece eeavece =24° 
By the latter, it is also... cc ccscscccccececccsces / 24 
The annual precession of the equinoxes, by the Para- 

sara Siddhanta, ....++ pa sind 08:6 eid 66.0 .6:0'6 60'S 0:0" =46".5367 
By the Arya Siddhanta, it is ....eccccccccesecses =46.252 
The year of the Kali Yuga when the precession was 0 

by the former, was ....cccscccccccccvcceves =3711, A. D. 610 

by the latter, it was ......cceccccccvscsccece =3707, A. D. 606 


From the very near agreement between the par- 
ticulars above compared, no doubt whatever can 
exist, but that Aryabhatta was the real author of 
the Parasara Siddhanta, and for the express purpose 
above mentioned, that of supporting the imposition 
respecting the position and motions of the seven 
Rishis, invented by himself. 

We shall now compute the position of the line of 
the Rishis by the system of Parasara. In 4320000000 
years, there are 1599998 revolutions of the Rishis 
feigned; therefore each revolution=“igme-= 2700 
years and a small fraction, which we reject. 

At the commencement of the Kalpa, the line of 
the Rishis is assumed to be in the beginning of 
Aswini ; therefore, to find its position at the begin- 
ning of the Kali Yuga, we multiply the four right- 
hand figures of the revolutions 1599998, by 4567, 
reserving in the product the four right-hand digits, 
which will be the decimal parts of a revolution, 
showing the time then elapsed, since the line of the 
Rishis was in the beginning of Aswini. Thus, 9998 x 
4567 = .0866 of a revolution, the value of Which in 
years = 2700 x .0866 = 233.82, or near 234 years; 
that is, 234 years before the beginning of the Kali 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 147 


Yuga, the line of the Rishis was in the beginning of 
Aswini ; consequently, at the beginning of the Kak 
Yuga, it was 34 years advanced into Kritica, from. 
which point of time we compute as follows : — 


Remainder of Kritica, : . 66 years. 
Add for Rohini, ; : : 100 

for Mrigasiras, : ‘ 100 

for Ardra, : ; ; 100 

for Punarvasu, : : 100 

for Pushya, . : ; 100 

for Aslesha, ; ; , 100 


—e 


Total to the beginning of Magha, 666 


That is to say, in the year 666 of Kali Yuga, or 
2435 before the Christian era, the line of the Rishis. 
was in the beginning of Magha; which, therefore, as 
coming from the sage Parasara himself, who lived 
when the Rishis were in Magha, was conclusive evi- 
dence of the truth of the time assigned to Parasary 
Yudhishthira, &c. by Aryabhatta. 

Having now explained the nature and object of 
Aryabhatta’ 8 imposition, and his forgery of the Pa- 
rasara Siddhanta to support the same, we shall next 
proceed to show the age of the Arya Siddhanta and Pa- 
rasara Siddhanta, from the errors in the positions and 
motions of the planets, in the same manner as I have 
already done, in respect of the Brahma Siddhanta and 
Surya Siddhanta ; for though we have the date of the. 
Arya Siddhanta, as given by its author, it may be so 
far satisfactory, to see it confirmed by computation. 

We shall begin with the Arya Siddhanta. The 
positions of the planets at sunrise, at the beginning 
of the Kali Yuga, on the meridian of Ujein, will be 
had by multiplying the three right-hand digits of 


Digitized by Google 


148 THE MODERN ASFRONOMY 


each number of revolutions, as given im the table of 
the system, by 456, reserving the three right-hand 
figures in the product, which will be the planets’ 
place in decimal parts of a revolution, thus; for 
Mercury, the number of revolutions in 4320000000 
years =17937054671, the three right-hand figures 
671, multiplied by 456, give .976, which reduced is 
11°21°21'36’, the mean place of Mercury at the be- 
ginning of the Kali Yuga: or the same result will be 
obtained by saying, as 4320000000 : 17937054671, 
so the years elapsed of the Kalpa (in this case 
1969920000), to the planets’ mean place in revolu- 
tions, signs, &c. 

The following were the mean places of the planets 
at the beginning of Kali Yuga, Hindu sphere, by 
Aryabhatta and La Lande’s Tables. 


Planets, &c. By Aryabhatta. By La Lande. Differences. 
Sno, Hindu sphere,} 0° @° 0’ 0”) OF Q° Of 0”) 9» 0° O O” 
Moon, 0 @ 0 0/0 3 8 48/6 8 8 48— 

| Meroary, Hl Qi 2t 36/10 27 2: 1t0e 
Venus, 11027 «7 «13; 1 2 52 51/1 
Mars, 0 0 0 Of11 17 46 23;0 
Jupiter, . 1k 27 7 12); O 16 49 21:] 0 
Saturn, 0 0 @ O;} 11 8 46 40/6 
Moon’s apogee, 4 ti) 
0 


Node, 5 


The following are the mean annual motions of 
the planets, Hindu sphere, by Aryabhatta and La 
Lande’s Tables. 


By Aryabbatte By La Lande. Differences, + 

ss 08 0° Of 0” Os 0° 0’ YY Oo 

- 412 46 40,5 4 12 46 37,7076 0 2,7924 + 

1 24 45 16,4013] 1 24 45 36,1940 0 19,7927 — 

. Venus, ..... 7 15 11 51,4296) 7 15 11 23,4870 0 27,0426+ 
Mars,........ 611 24 9,3 6 11 24 19,26 0 9,96 

Jupiter, ...... 1 O21 5,9046) 1 0 20 50,6965 O 15,2081 + 

Saturn, ...... : 12 12 50,7 01213 9,5761 0 18,8761_— 

“Moon’s apogee, 4% 10 40 32,6022) 1 10 40 35,7990 0 3,1962— 

~ Node, .. 0.19 21 34, 0062} 0 19 21 30,8420 0 3,1648+4 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 149. 


Now, dividing the errors. or differences in the. 
mean places of the planets at the beginning of the 
Kat Yuga, by the errors or differences in the mean 
annual motions, we get as follow : — 


° , a . 

i Rs ee aes } cer divided by 2°7924 = 4114 years. 
Mercury, .....+ 24. (0° 88 a siveceseese by 19,7927 = 4367 | 
Venus, careseee BR 45 382 cecareececce by 27,0426 = 4607 
Mars, ....eeee bY ee tS) Se ere by 9,9600 = 4419- 
Jupiter, ...esee 19 42 DG — .cscccecsece by 15,2081 = 4663 
Saturn, .ocacee ZL 13 20 — cccccccccece by 18,8761 = 4047 

Apogee, oo 3 52 5 cecaccavoces by 3,1962.—= 4356 
——Node,.... 3 59 40 eccececvesee DY 38,1642 = 4544 

Their sum is os ee ee 35117 

And which, divided by 8, the meanis .. oe 4389 


Differing only 34 years from the date 4423 given by 
Aryabhatta, and therefore a complete proof of the 
truth of it. Indeed there is no reason whatever to 

suppose that Aryabhatta, or any real Hindu astro- 
nomers, would falsify their own dates; nor indeed 
could they, because such an imposition would be- 
observed by their contemporaries: the falsification: 
of dates, and the interpolation of passages into 
books, with a view to give them or others the ap-. 
pearance of antiquity, are the artful contrivances of 
those that came after them. But though Aryabhatta, 

would not give a false date to his own work, yet he 
could forge a book in the name of another, as the 
Parasara Siddhanta, to serve his purpose. 

The following Table, will now show the errors in 
the places of the planets by the Arya Siddhanta, 
compared with La Lande’s Tables, at. different 
periods, from the beginning of the Kali Yuga to 
A.D, 33822. 


Digitized by Google 


150 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


Kali ee Kali poh K. Y. 4423, 
1322 A.D. 


014/22" 4 


Planets, | Kali Yoga. | Kali Yuga | Kali Yuga 
&e. or B.C. 3102. 1000. 2000. 


Moon, 8°55'33"—| 6°10/15”—| 3945/18” —| 1°45’ 9” —/0°14’11" — 


pense 352 6 +| 25849 +|2 533 +/11217 +f019 1+ $31 — 
Moon's 11 s 5940 | 3 656 —| 21412 —| 12198 —l0 2844 —o 625 _ 
73056 +|2 1 8 +) 1829 — 


Mercury, |24 035 +|18 3042 +/13 049 + 
Venus, |35 4539 —127 5956 —/20 1413 —/12 2880 —/4 4247 —|1 2547 _ 
Mars, 12 1337 4+] 92737 +| 64137 +] 35537 +/1 937 + 
Jupiter, 119 42 9 —]15 29 9 —/1116 9 —| 7 38 9 —|250 9 —/1 256 — 
Saturn, [21 1820 +|165 6844 +(|1044 8 +| 5 2932 +|0 1456 +{1 68 8 — 

Having thus proved the time the Arya Siddhanta 
was written, independent of the date, we shall now 
proceed to show the age the Pardsara Siddhanta 
by the like process. - 

The positions of the anaes at the beginning of the 
Kali Yuga, according to this system, will be obtained 
by the rule of proportion, in the usual manner, or 
more concisely, by multiplying the four right-hand 
figures of the number of revolutions for each of the 
planets, by 4567, reserving the four right-hand figures 
in the product, which will be decimal parts of a re- 
volution, denoting the planets’ mean place. 

. The following Table, shows the mean places of 
the planets at the beginning of Kali Yuga, Hindu 
sphere, at 6 A.M. on the meridian of Ujein, by the 
Parasara Siddhanta and La Lande’s Tables, with 
the errors or differences. 


Planets. Parasara Siddhanta.|La Lande’s Tables.|Errors or Differences. 
0 Oo |} 0 0 Y OO” | 0 OF Oo” 

10 48 0 8 8 48 2 58 0 
17 #16,8/10 27 21 0,9} 23 56 15,94 
58 33,6; 1 2 523 609/35 54 17,3— 
14 $8,4/11 17 #47 22,9) 11 27 15,64 
2 52,8;0 16 49 20,7} 19 46 27,9— 
57 216/11 8 46 40 20 10 41,64 
12 28,8; 3 29 58 19,2} 5 14 9,64 
49 12 5 6 38 3,8] 3 48 51,8— 


Sun, seconses 
Moon, ..cece 
Meroury, ...+. 
Venus, ..ceece 
Mars, .. cece 
Jupiter, ....06 
Saturn, ..ccee 
Moon’s apogee, 
Node, 


The following Table, shows the mean annual mo- 
tions of the planets in the Hindu sphere, according 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS, 151 


to the Parusara Siddhanta and La Lande’s Tables, 
with the errors or differences. 


Planets. 


/Parasara Siddhanta.|La Lande’s Tables.jErrors or Differences. 


Sun, oeceeree [0° 0° 0’ 0” 0s 0° 0’ 0” 0” 


Moon,.....+6+ |4 12 46 40,3545 |4 12 46 87,6236 2,7309 + 
Meroury,...... |1 24 45 16,6422 |1 24 45 35,8979 19,2557 — 
Venus, ..seeeee |7 15 1b 51,6444 (7 15 11 23,1328 28,5116 + 
Mars,...eeeee |G 11 24 9,9111 |6 11 24 18,8799 8,9688 
Jupiter, ....6. |1 021 5,9862 [1 0 20 50,3068 15,6794 + 
Saturn, ....... |0 12 12 51,5439 [0 12 13 9,1854 17,6415 — 
Moon’s apogee, |1 10 40 31,3902 |1 10 40 35,4105 4,0203 — 

Node,.... |0 19 21 33,9705 |0 19 21 31,2355 2,7350 + 


Having now the errors or differences in the mean 
places of the planets at the beginning of the Kali 
Fuga, and the errors or differences in the mean 
annual motions, let the former be divided by the 
latter, and we have, 


Planets, &c. Divisors. Dividends. Quotients. 
Moon, ...+.06 2”,7309 2° 58’ 0” 8910 
—— Apogee, .. 4,0203 5 14 9,6 4688 

Node, +6 2,7350 3 48 51,8 5020 
Mercury, oeesos 19,2557 23 56 15,9 4475 
Venus, .eeeecee 28,5116 85 54 17,3 4533 

8,9688 i 27 U5 4597 

15,6794 19 46 27,9 4540 

17,6415 20 10 41,6 4117 

The sum of the quotients or results “ee | 35880 


Which divided by 8, gives for a mean result 4485, 
or A.D. 1384; which, therefore, coupled with the 
comparisons already made, shows that it was the 
work of Aryabhatta, though it comes out a few years 
later than his date; but that can be of very little 
consideration here, for the object of the work was 
not extraordinary accuracy, but as an authority to 
support by zame an imposition: indeed the nearer 
the system of the Parasara Siddhanta agreed with 
his own work, the more it became liable to suspi- 


Digitized by Google 


152 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


cion; and I am therefore rather surprised that he 
did not use more artifice than to frame it for his own 
time. 

The following Table, will now show the errors in 
the mean places of the planets by the Parasara Sidd- 
hanta, compared with La Lande’s Tables at different 
periods, from the beginning of the Kali Yuga to A.D. 
1322. 


Planets, [Kali Yuga, or} Kall Yuga | Kali Yuga | Kali a Ses Kali pie Li Y. 4422, 
&e. B.C. 3102. 1000. 2000. 


S72 B.D. 


coon, | 8°44’45”_| 6° 0’28"| 8°36'33”_| 1°37’25"—l0° 7’20” + |0°z0’44” 4 
pas 51410 +|4 710 4/3 010 +| 153 9 +/046 9 +/01749 + 
Moon’s 2 

Neue {| 84892 -}3 217 -| 21042 -| 181 7 —lo 4889 —[o 2615 — 


Metcury, [23 5616 +18 8520 +/t3 1424 +] 7 5828 +/2 3232 +/0 1647 4 
Venus, |35 6417 —/27 59 5 —|20 353 —|12 841 —/4 1329 —/0 5229 — 
Mears, 112716 +) 86747 +] 6 2818 +] 35849 +/1 2920 +10 26 6 + 
apiter, [19 4628 —|15 25 9 —/tl 350 —| 6 4231 —(2 2112 —/0 3040 — 
Satarn, 4042 +| 51640 +|10 2288 +| 5 2836 +/0 3434 —|1 2048 — 


As this Table will, I think, be sufficient to show, 
by inspection, the time nearly when the Pdarasara. 
Siddhanta was framed, it must be altogether unne- 
cessaty to dwell longer on this point. We shall 
therefore now proceed to such other matters, con- 
tained in the Arya Siddhanta, as may be deemed 
curious or deserving-of notice. 

In the twelfth chapter of the Arya Siddhanta, Aryab- 
hatta gives us a table of the longitudes and latitudes 
of the stars in the Lunar Asterisms. The longitudes, 
as usual, are all reckoned from the beginning of the 
Lunar Asterism Aswini, as the commencement of the 
modern Hindu sphere, but determined by the points 
of the ecliptic, being cut by the circles of latitude, 
and not by the circles of declination; therefore, dif- 
fering from the Brahma Siddhanta, and others that 
follow the latter method. The author of the Surva 
Bhauma, a modern writer, appears to have followed 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. . 153 


Aryabhatta in his method: it will therefore be useful 
to exhibit both their tables at one view. 


TABLE of the Longitudes and Latitudes of the Stars in Lunar 
Mansions, reckoned from the beginning of Aswini, according to 
the Arya Siddhanta and Sarva Bhauma Siddhanta. 


Arya Siddhanta. Sarva Bhauma. Stars supposed to 


Lunar Asterisns. be meant. 


Longitudes|Latitudes |Longitudes|Latitades 


12° 0’{10° 0’N.} 12° 40’|10°50'N. de arietias 
12 


s. 
10 


N. 
eS {Presepeory.3 Caner? 
s. 49 or 60 Cancri. 


ora Aqailee. 
or a Delphini ? 


coumbbak o S88 


8 
8 
5 
5 
62 
80 
26 
0 
26 
28 
0 


On comparing the above latitudes and longitudes, 
some differences will be observed; but whether such 
differences arise from error, or from different stars 
being intended, cannot be so readily ascertained. 
Thus Aryabhatta gives the longitude of the star in 
the sixth mansion Ardra, 68° 23’; but in the Sarva 
Bhauma, it is set down 65° 8’, making a differente 
of upwards of 3°. The position of this star by the 
Brahma Siddhanta is 67° and 11" S. from which data I 


XK 


Digitized by Google 


154 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


find the longitude to be 65° 5‘, and latitude 10°50’ S. 

Hence it appears that the error is on the side of 
Aryabhatta, unless he meant another star; but this 
we can hardly suppose, because there is no other 
star 3° more to the east with the same latitude. On 
the other hand, Aryabhatta makes the longitude of 
the star in the seventh Lunar Mansion Punarvasu, 
92° 53’. I make it, from the data in the Brahma 
Siddhanta, 92° 52’, differing but one minute; but the 
- Sarva Bhauma makes it 94° 53', differing 2°, which 
shows that there are errors on both sides, which, 
after all, may have arisen from carelessness in 
copying, and therefore it would be needless to offer 
any further observations on the differences in the 
table, as copies of the Arya Siddhanta are not now 
procurable. 

In the fifteenth chapter, Aryabhatta treats of the 
several rules of arithmetic, as addition, subtraction, 
multiplication, division, squares and cubes of num- 
bers, and their roots, progressions, and other matters 
relating to the doctrine of numbers, after which he 
treats on geometrical problems; the whole of which 
appears to be the same, or very nearly so, and in the 
same order, as given in the Lilavati of Bhaskara. 
Acharya; with this difference, that Aryabhatta only 

' gives the problems and rules of solution generally, 
and without numbers, whereas in the Lilavati, they 
are exemplified by figures and numercial solutions, so 
that the latter may be taken as a perpetual com- 
mentary on this part of the Arya Siddhanta: but in 
the ptoblems relating to the circle, of which there 
are about eighteen ‘in the Arya Siddhanta, Bhaskara 
Acharya differs from him, particularly in the propor- 
tions of the diameter to the circumference. For 
instance, the diameter being given to find the cir- 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 155 


cumference, one of Aryabhatta’s rules is, “« Multiply 
the square of the diameter by 10, the square root of 
the product is the circumference.” Thus, suppose 
the diameter 10, then 10? x 10=1000, and ”1000= 
31.6228: this appears to be from. Brahma Gupta. 
Bhaskara’s rule is, Multiply the diameter by 3927, 
and divide by 1250, the quotient is the near cir- 
cumference. Thus, suppose the diameter 10, then 
i =e =31.416. The following rule is given by 
Aryabhatta for finding the arc from the chord and 
arrow (or verse sine): Multiply the square of the 
arrow (v. s.) by 6, add the square of the chord, the 
root is the arc. Thus, suppose the diameter of a 
circle is 10, and we wanted to know the circumfe- 
rence, then 10 will be the chord and 5 the arrow; and 
we shal] have /5x6+10= 7 250=15.8114 for the 
arc or semicircumference; its double, therefore = 
31.6228, the same as above from Brahma Gupta. 
The following is another of Aryabhatta’s rules for 
finding the arc: Multiply the square of the arrow 
(v. s.) by 288, divide the product by 49, to the 
quotient add the square of the chord, the root of the 
sum is the near arc. Thus, suppose the chord= 
10=the diameter of a circle, then the arrow will 
be 5, or the semidiameter, and =%"°=146.938 and 
W 146,938 +10? = / 246.938 = 15.7143, the arc of a semi- 
circle, and its double 31.4286, the whole circum- 
ference of a circle whose diameter is 10; whence, 
the proportion is as 1: 31.4286. But Aryabhatta, 
in the 17th chapter, in speaking of the orbits of the 
planets, gives us a nearer approach to the truth; ‘for 
he there states the proportion as 191 to 600, or as 
1: 31.4136, which gives the circumference a small 
matter less than the proportion of Bhaskara in the 
Lilavati. This, however, is not the invention of 


Digitized by Google 


’ 


156 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


Aryabhatta; for it is employed in the Brahma Sidd- 
hanta, Surya Siddhanta, and by all the astronomers 
before the time of Aryabhatta, as well as since, for 
computing the tables of sines, &c. though not imme- 
diately apparent. Thus, in computing the sines, 
they take the radius at 3438’, and the circumference 
they divide into 21600’, the diameter is therefore 
6876, hence the proportion is 6876 : 21600: reduce 
these numbers to their least terms by dividing them 
by 36, the result will be 191 : 600, as stated by 
Aryabhatta. 

Aryabhatta next proceeds to the doctrine of exca- 
vations, and the contents of solids; but unfortunately, 
after proceeding as far as Chiti (piles or stacks), the 
remainder of the chapter is lost, together with the 
whole of the sixteenth, which contained his algebra, 
and a few stanzas of the seventeenth—a loss the 
more to be regretted, as I fear it cannot be restored. 
If we had this part, we should have been able to 
ascertain what improvements were introduced by 
Bhaskara Acharya, who, it appears, lived 200 years 
after Aryabhatta, as will be shown in the next sec- 
tion. Aryabhatta, like many other Hindu writers, 
is now thrown back into antiquity, the cause of 
which will be explained when we come to speak of 
Bhaskara and Varaha Mihira in the next section. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 157 


SECTION IV. 


Varaha Mihira, like Aryabhatta, endeavours to support the new order of things 
= Perverts the meaning of a passage relating to the epoch of Yudhisthira, 
who he places 2448 before Christ—Varaha Mihira mentions the Surya 
Siddhanta and Aryabhatta — States the heliacal rising of Canopus at Ujein, 
when the Sun was 7° short of Virgo— Gives the positions of the aphelia of the 
Planets in the Jatakarnava for the year 1450 Saca, or A. D. 1528— The 
heliacal rising of Canopus at Ujein computed for that year, the result agrees 
with that which Varaha stated, being 7° short of Virgo— The point of heliacal 
rising of Canopus at Ujein, in the Hindu sphere, shown. 


Tue next person we have to notice, in point of 
antiquity and celebrity, is Variha Mihira. Like 
Aryabhatta, he contributed his mite towards sup- 
porting the modern order of things, by endeavouring © 
to pervert the meaning of a passage respecting the 
epoch of Yudhishthira. When the modern system 
was first introduced, the epochs of ancient kings 
were referred to it, as they really stood, and amongst 
the rest, Yudhisht'hira, who lived about 575 years 
. before Christ. The epoch or time of Yudhisthira 
ascending his throne, transferred to the modern Kali 
Yuga, corresponded to the year 2526. The meaning 
of this, Varaha Mihira thought fit to pervert, by say- 
ing that it was the number of years Yudhist’hira 
lived before the era of Saca; placing him there for 
2448 B.C. The era of Saca, it seems, then, fell very 
conveniently in his way ; but if it had not, he would 
have hit on some other contrivance, equally as plau- 
sible and convincing. He also supported the notions 
of the motions of the stars in the Great Bear first 
broached by Aryabhatta, that of their being 100 


Digitized by Google 


158 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


years in each Lunar Asterism, and that they were 
in Magha in the time of Yudhishthira. To dwell 
longer on such childish absurdities would be a 
waste of time: we shall, therefore, proceed to what 
is of much more importance, that of determining the 
period when Varaha Mihira lived, which will enable 
us to point out a great number of forgeries and im- 
positions of the moderns, that were not in the least 
suspected. 

I have noticed on a former occasion, that Varaha 
Mihira mentions the Surya Siddhanta, which would 
of course place him after the period to which that 
work has been referred. Varaha Mihira also men- 
tions Aryabhatta ; consequently he must have been 
posterior to him, that is, since A.D. 1322. But 
what he states himself is still better than all this, 
because it brings us at once to the point. He tells 
us in one of his works, the Varaha Sanhita, that 
Canopus rose heliacally at Ujein, when the sun was 
7° short of Virgo; that is, when he was in 23° of 
Leo. This is a most important fact, because it 
serves to decide a point of time that has been long 
disputed. 

In calculating the time, we may make choice of 
any particular year since the time of Aryabhatta: 
but as Varaha Mihira has given us his time in another 
of his works called the Jatakarnava, in which the 
positions of the aphelia of the planets for the year 
of Saca 1450, or A. D. 1528, are given, we may as 
well make choice of that year, because, if the Jata- 
harnava was the real work of Varaha Mihira, then 
we would naturally expect they would agree, or at 
least nearly so, and thereby they would confirm each 
other; but if they disagreed considerably in point 
of time, though passing-under the name of the same 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 


159 


author, we then certainly would have a right to 
conclude they were not written by one and the 
same person. 


The longitade of Canopus in A.D. 1750 was......se02 3% 11° 31’ 
Dedact precession for 222 years (=1750—1528,)= .. 0 3 38 


Longitude of Canopus in A. D. 1528, =3......0ceeeee 3 8 27 
Latitude of Canopus, = ..cccccseccccsccccccecsees§ O 75 51 
0 23 30 


Obliquity of the ecliptic,...... ce sscsceccccccccccee 


From which we get the right ascension and decli- 
nation of Canopus in A.D. 1528 by the following 
proportions : 


1 


As radius sine .....ccsccecescscccccose 
Is to sine of the longitude of Canopus...cee 
So cot. latitude of ditto ......cceeseceve 
To 00t. Of 0 fic dccassaceseceseevenn ce 
Subtract obliquity of the ecliptic .......00+ 
Remain .......ccscccccccvcccccsccsces 
As radius sine .c.c.ccsccccccccccccceve 
Is to cos. longitude of Canopus, ...eessee 
So cos. latitude... secesecccccsevcecvces 
To cosine Of .....ccseececescccscercece 
As radius SIDE ..ccccccncececcscreccces 
Is tO C08. ws ccccscccccsccccesesscccoes 
So tame cccccccccccccccsccccccscscvecs 
To tam. . cc ccccccccccccscecccssesvesce 
Which taken from ..ccsscccscoceceseccs 
Leaves the right ascension of Canopus .... 


As radius sine ......secceseccccccnccne 


Is to sine 2... ccccccccccccrcescccvecves 
So sine ..cccccccccccccvessesccccccees 


To sine of the declination of Canopus = .. 


v 10. 
33 9.9952597 
51 9.4015910 
0 9.3968507 


0 10. 
33 9.1671586 
51 9.8882101 
56 8.5553687 


36 11.2271109 


24 in A.D. 1528. 


27 9.8991841 


Digitized by Google 


160 


THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


o> Zz 


Now, in the annexed Diagram, 


Let P be the pole of the equator. 


PZ = 90°—23° 11’ 66° 49 = the complement of the Lat. of Ujein. 


+ C the equator. 
+ D the ecliptic. 
S place of the star. 


Then say: 


5 


As tan. co, lat. PZ = ACS ......cccvcees 
Is to rad. sine 2... cccsecceee eveceees 
So tan. of the declination AS .......0.008 
To sine of the ascensional difference AC .... 
Add right ascension .........eseeerseeee 
The sum is the oblique ascension TC .. eee 
Which taken from .........ccerssecseee 
Leaves C & (supplementary triangle,) .,... 
As cos. of the obliquity of the ecliptic 4 = 
Is to rad. sine .. cece ccc ccceccccccceece 
So tan. C2 wees cccccccvecccccccncece 


To tan, Bae .cccccccrccccccccesccececs 


10.3682963 

10. 

10.1142350 
9.7459387 


9.9623978 
10. 
10.1189478 
10.1565500 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 161. 


And 180°—-55° 7'= 124° 53'= r+ B, the point of the 
ecliptic B, or the longitude of that point of the 
equator C, which rises with Canopus. 


Now the next portion of the ecliptic to be found 
is BD. 


7 As radius sine ......cccecscccerccccees 90° 0° 10, 
Is to sine CX oo. ccccecsecccccccverses 52 45 9.9009142 
So tan. obliqnity of the ecliptic 4 . 23 30 9.6383019 
To tan. BO g.csecccesccccreecccsverees 19 6 9.5392161 


8 As rad. Sine ..cccescccecceccccecesens - 90 0 10. 
To sine of the obliquity of the ecliptic = 23 30 9.6006997 
So cos. CL wecccccveccvcccccccesseses 52 45 9.7819664 


To cos. CB ..ccceccccccccccscecesss 76 8 

9 AS rad. SINE wescecceccccccscccccsssees 90 O 10. 
Ts to cos. BC ...ccconscesccserceersces 19 6 9.9754083 
So tan. of the latitude of Ujeie ........... 23 11 9.6317037 
TO O0bs occccsecvcccssccceseevessevccs: OF 68 9.607 1120 
Which taken from 76° 2’ leaves .......... 98 4 

10 AS COB. cocccccccccscccescccccscsoscee 8 4 9.9956815 
Is to COS. 12. s-ceccevccccceccccsccsess GF 58 9.5742003 
So tan. CB ......ccrecccccccecsccceses 19 6 9.5394287 
To tan. BD ....ccceccccenccccccenecee FT 2D 9.1179475 


To which add +B = 124° 53’ we have the longitude 
of the point D = 132° 22’ coascendent with S and C, 
or the cosmical point of rising of Canopus. 


The next portion of the ecliptic to be found is 
DM, depressed 10° 30’ below the horizon. 


11 As rad. sine ...... sccscccescccccccccce 90° Of 10. 
Ts to cos. BD ...cccccccccccccccccness FT 2D 9.9962862 
. 8 4 9.15 14543 
To cos. CDB .....ccccccccccccscerccee 82 O 9.1477395 
12 As sine CDB= NDM ...ceccccccccceses 82 O 9.9957528 
Is to sine MN ...cccccccccccsceccesess 10 30 9.2606330 
90 0 10. 
To sine DM 2... .cccccccccccccssccsesee 10 36 9.2648802 
Add the point of cosmical rising ........+- 182 22 
The sum is the heliacal point ...,.cseeee2 142 58 = 4#22°58’, 
or 22°58’ of Leo, 


which is within two minutes of what Varaha states 
it, he making it 23° of Leo, or 7° short of Virgo. 
In the above calculation, I have taken 10° 30’ for 
the arc of vision, or the depression of the sun below 
Y 


Digitized by Google 


162 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


the horizon at the rising of Canopus. Some allow 
10°, others 11°; mine is a medium between the 
two, and agrees best with what Varaha states: but 
whether we take 10° or 11°, the difference will be 
inconsiderable, and not exceeding 30’ in the sun’s 
longitude either way. Therefore the question re- 
specting the true time of Varaha Mihira is now finally 
settled, and all doubts respecting his being the 
author of the Jatakarnava proved to be entirely 
groundless. 

It may not now be amiss, to show the points in- 
the Hindu sphere, to which the sun must have come 
at the cosmical and heliacal rising of Canopus at 
Gjein in A. D. 1528, as it will serve to prevent miscon- 
ception. This may be done by deducting the differ- 
ence between the Hindu and tropical-spheres for the 
year A.D. 1528, from the cosmical and _heliacal 
points 4° 12° 22’ and 4° 22°58’ above determined. 
But as this would require some calculation, I shall 
show how it may be done without any trouble, by 
means of a celestial globe, and that independent al- 
together of any reference to the tropical sphere. 

Take a celestial globe, on which the stars are cor- 
rectly laid down, and rectify it for the latitude of 
Ujein 23° 11'N. bring the star Canopus to the eastern 
horizon, and mark the point on the ecliptic then in 
the horizon, with its distance from some fixed star 
east or west of it, lying in or near the ecliptic; this 
will be the cosmical point, and its longitude in the 
Hindu sphere, will be known from its distance in 
degrees east or west of the star. Measure 103° to- 
-wards the east, perpendicular to the horizon, and 
mark the point where it falls on the ecliptic, in 

-respect to its distance east or west of.some fixed 
star whose longitude is given in the Hindu sphere, this 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 163 


will be the heliacal point, and its longitude in the 
Hindu sphere will be known from its distance east 
or west of the star. Thus, the globe being rectified 
for the latitude, and the star Canopus brought to the 
eastern horizon, the point of the ecliptic then on the 
horizon will be found to be about 10° 56’ west of 
Regulus, whose longitude in the Hindu sphere is 
4° 9°; consequently the longitude of the cosmical 
point in the Hindu sphere, is 4° 9°— 10° 56'=3* 28° 
4’: now measuring 104° perpendicular to the horizon 
towards the east, as directed, the point will fall on 
the ecliptic about 20' to the west of Regulus; there- 
fore the longitude of this point in the Hindu sphere, 
is 4* 9'—0° 20'=4' 8° 40’, to which the sun must in- 
variably come at the heliacal rising of Canopus at 
Ujein. The Hindu sphere being sideral, and conse- 
quently fixed, the cosmical and heliacal points thus 
shown, are also nearly fixed: they were so in the 
time of Varaha, and they are the same now. But 
it is far otherwise in the moveable or tropical sphere, 
in which the variation is considerable, the longitude 
of the cosmical and heliacal points increasing as the 
time is more modern. 

Having thus shown the age in which Varaha 
Mihira wrote, from the data given in both his works, 
the Varahi Sanhita and Jatakarnava, which com- 
pletely agree, we shall, in the next section, endeavour 
to explain the cause of his being thrown back into 
antiquity by the moderns, with the various means 
that have been employed for that purpose. 


Digitized by Google 


164 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


SECTION V. 


The couse of Varaha Mihira being thrown back into antiquity by the moderns 
explained — The reason of two Varaha Mihiras and two Bhaskaras explained 
by the imposition on Akber— Bhaskara thrown back to A.D. 1150— A num- 
ber of forgeries to support the imposition— Spurious Arya Siddhanta— Twe 
Bhasvatis—Pretended ancient commentaries— Interpolations— The Pancha 
Siddhantika — False positions of the Colures— Artificial rules for the cosmical 
rising of Canopus by the Bhivasti—By the Pancha Siddhantiki— By 
Kesava— By the Graha Lighava— The time to which they refer appears to 
be about the middle of last century —The heliacal rising of Canopus by the 
Brahma Vaivarta, and -Bhavisya Puranas, when the sun was 3° shert of 
Virgo —A view of the impositions arising from spurious books — Laksmidasa, 


@ commentator on the Siddhanta Siromani, pretended to be a grandson of ° 


_ Kesava, and to have written in A. D. 1500— Determines the cosmical rising 
of Canopus at Benares for that year — The spurious Arya Siddhanta examined, 
and shown to be a modern forgery —The system it contains, how framed— 
Gives the proportion of the diameter of a circle to its circumference the same 
as Bhaskara — Quotes the Brahma Siddhanta, Brahma Gupta, and the 
Surya Siddhanta—The Pulisa Siddhanta, another forgery, noticed ——For- 
geries of books innwnerable—The Brahma Siddhanta Sphuta, another for- 
gery—The object of the forgery—The spurious Brahma Siddhanta quotes 
the spurious Arya Siddhanta, Pulisa Siddhanta, and Varaha Mihira, thereby 
proving it to be a forgery,and, perhaps, by the same individual— Quota- 
tions made from it to show the same—Mistake about the positions of the 
Colures, and the meaning of the terms Aries, Taurus, §c.— Interpolations — 
Vishnu Chandra, Sc. 

Asour the year A.D. 1556, the emperor Jelaledeen 

Mahomed Akber ascended the throne. This prince 

was universally esteemed as a great encourager of 

learning, and of Jearned men of all nations; in con- 
sequence of which, a number of works on various 
subjects were continually presented to him, and 
among these was the Lilavati of Bhaskara Acharya. 

This work, in order to increase its value, as well as 

to exalt the abilities of the Hindus as men of science 

in the eyes of the emperor, was given out to be then 


several centuries old; and that it was not the work 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 165 


of Bhaskara Acharya, who was then living, but of 
another person of the same name, who lived as far 
back as the year A.D. 1150. By this Brahminical 
contrivance, two Bhaskara Acharyas were framed 
out of one. But it so happened that Bhaskara 
Acharya, in one of his works, the Siddhanta Siromani, 

mentioned the name of Varaha, who appears above 
to have written only twenty-six years before Akber 
ascended the throne, and consequently might then 
be still living. This untoward circumstance was, 
therefore, likely to overturn the whole imposition ; 
and, if observed, instead of getting favour with the 
emperor, they would be considered as cheats and 
impostors: therefore, to save appearances and their 
credit, the same method was followed as with 
Bhaskara, by giving out that the person mentioned 
by Bhaskara was not the Varaha who wrote a few 
years before the emperor ascended the throne, but 
another of the same name, who lived about the time 
of Raja Bhoj, or his successor, by which means the 
discovery of the deception was prevented, and two 
Varaha Mihiras were thus made out of one. 

It would appear that the matters remained in this 
state, depending entirely on mere verbal assertions, 
until the last century, perhaps about the middle of 
it, when the impositions above stated, were most 
probably opposed, and nearly overturned. Who 
the persons were that made the opposition we cannot 
now ascertain, nor the proofs produced, except by 
inferences from the various means that appear to 
have been employed to counteract such proofs. 
The time of Aryabhatta. was known from the date 
of the Arya Siddhanta, which was still existing ; and 
Bhaskara Acharya had written a-commentary on the 
Arya Siddhanta, which is supposed to have been the 


Digitized by Google 


166 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


foundation of the Lilavati: consequently Bhaskara 
must have been posterior to Aryabhatta. Aryabhatta 
wrote the Arya Siddhanta in the year A.D. 1322, 

(Sec. III.) but Bhaskara Acharya, (in order to make 
the Lilavati appear ancient,) was thrown back to the 
year 1150, or 172 years before the very person on 
whose work he wrote a commentary. Here was a 
most glaring inconsistency, that could not be other- 
wise than noticed, and as such, fatal to the story of 
the pretended antiquity of Bhaskara Acharya, as 
well as to that of Varaha Mihira. Moreover, the 
positions of the planets given by the Arya Siddhanta 
proved the truth of the date of that work, so that 
there was no room left for subterfuge. These being 
the proofs, I suppose, that were brought forward, 

or at least a part of them, we shall now endeavour 
to show the means that were adopted to counteract 
them. It was evident, that so long as the Arya 
Siddhanta was in existence and in circulation, any 
means they might adopt to counteract the proofs 
would be useless. It became, therefore, necessary 
by all means to suppress it, and to fabricate a variety 
of books, and make interpolations in existing ones, 
for the express purpose of supporting the antiquity 
they had thus given, or meant to give, to Varaha 
Mihira and Bhaskara Acharya. Among the number 
of books that were thus fabricated to answer this 
purpose, we accordingly find a spurious Arya 
Siddhanta, as a substitute for the real one sup- 
pressed, but differing entirely from it and appear- 
ing an imposition on the face of it. We also find a 
book called the Kutuhala, fathered on Bhaskara 
Acharya, in which the epoch for the positions of 
the planets is given for the year 1105 Saca, by 
which it was intended that the world should believe 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 167 


' that he actually lived at that period, and wrote the 
work, Other works were written to throw back 
the time of Varaha Mihira, such as the two Bhawatis, 
pretended to have been written by Satanunda, the 
fictitious pupil of Varaha; the epoch of these is the 
year 1021 Saca. One is made to mention the name 
of Varaha, and the other to allude to the five Sidd- 
hantas, which it was pretended Varaha had written, 
or compared and examined: consequently, from the 
epoch thus given, it was intended to establish that 
Varaha Mihira lived as far back, at least, as the year 
1021 Saca, or A.D. 1099. Besides these, there is a 
commentary on the Varahi Sanhita, by some person 
or persons, under the fictitious name of Bhattotpala, 
given out by the Brahmins of Ujein to be near eight 
hundred years old ; for this Bhattotpala is pretended 
to have lived in A. D. 968*: consequently the asser- 
tions of the Brahmins of Ujein, if believed, would 
place Varaha Mihira anterior to A.D. 968; for no 
one will doubt, but that he must be older than his 
commentator. And to strengthen all this, they had 
recourse to several interpolations, which they made 
into the original work of Varaha Mihira, the Varahi 
Sanhita, one of which, in particular, we shall here 
notice, to show the artfulness of the method that 
was adopted. 

They feigned that Varaha Mihira had examined 
and compared five certain Stddhantas, or works on 
astronomy, called by the names of the Brahma, the 
Surya the Vasishtha, the Romaka, and the Pulisa 
Siddhanta, which names they interpolated into the 
Varahi Sanhita, to support the fiction. They also 
pretended that Varaha Mihira wrote a work on these 


* Mr. Colebrooke’s Notes and Illustrations, p. xxxiii, 


Digitized by Google 


168 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


five Siddhantas, entitled the Pancha Siddhantika, but 
which work it does not appear that any one has ever 
yet seen. From this unseen and unheard of work, 
and which I am disposed to think, never existed, 
Bhattotpala, the commentator on the Varahi Sanhita, 
or rather the person who assumed that name, pre- 
tends to quote a passage, stating that the colure was 
in the Lunar Asterism Punarvasu when the author 
wrote that work ; which, as no particular degree is 
mentioned, would place him between the years A.D. 
277 and A.D. 1165. This forgery is, however, 
completely overthrown, as well as all the others we 
have mentioned, by the time deduced from the 
heliacal rising of the Canopus mentioned by the 
author himself in his Sanhita, and by the time for 
which he gave the positions of the aphelia of the 
planets in his other work, the Jatakarnava.* It 


* Mr. Colebrooke is not disposed to believe the Jatakdrnava a work of Varaha 
Mibira, because it forms a direct positive proof against him. He says: ‘‘ The 
«* minor works ascribed to the same author (Varaba Mihira), may have been com- 
* posed in later times, and the name of a celebrated author have been affixed to 
«¢ them, according to a practice which is but too common in India, as in many other 
“ countries. The Jatakarnava, for example, which has been attributed to him, may 
“not improbably be the work of a different author. Atleast I am not apprized 
« of any collateral evidence, such as quotations from it in books of some antiquity, 
“to support its genuineness as a work of Varaha Mihira.”—As. Res. Vol. XII. 
p. 244. The genuineness of the Jatakarnava is proved by its agreement in date 
with the Varahi Sanhita, to both of which the author’s name is affixed. Quotations 
can never be considered as proof, for they may be, and often are made by impostors 
to give strength to their forgeries ; and what is more, spurious works very seldom 
quote any other but those of the same character, Jest a discovery of the real truth 
should be made by that means. For instance, the spurious Arya Siddhanta is 
repeatedly quoted by Bhattotpala, (one of the greatest impostors that ever lived), 
and also by the spurious Brahma Siddhanta, but not a word about the genuine Arya 
Siddhanta, which, however, is found quoted in other boeks. And when quotations 

. are made by impostors from genuine books, it is generally with a view of introducing 
to notice some passage that has been interpolated for the purpose of imposition. 
Thus the Pancha Siddhantika is quoted by Bhattotpala, to bring forward the pre- 
tended positions of the colures in the time of Varaha Mihira, with the intention of 
throwing that author back into antiquity; which, however, is overthrown by the 
other passage he cites from the same book relative to the cosmical rising of Canopus, 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 169 


might, therefore, be considered superfluous to enter 
into all these particulars, since every circumstance 


showing it to be the production of the last centary ; amd consequently all the 
interpolations into the Vardhi Sanhita relating to it; to Pulisa, and the spurious 
Arya Siddhanta, are of the same period. But it is upon these quotations, 
interpolations, and assertions without proof, that Mr. Colebrooke relies, and 
not on astronomical facts, which he seems to disregard. He tells us, that Varaha 
Mihira was the son of Adityadasa, being so described in the Vrikat Jataka, of 
which he was the author, and that he lived in the fifth or sixth centary of the 
Christian era. Notes end Illustrations, pp. xlv. li—That Adityadasa might 
possibly be the father of Varaha Mihira, for any thing we can know to the contrary ; 
but that he flourished at the close of the fifth, or beginning of the sixth centary of 
the Christian era, is what cannot be admitted, becanse we have already shown him, 
from astronomical facts, to have been contemporary with the emperor Akber. 
‘Whether he was the author of the Vrihat Jataka or not, cannot possibly be known, 
except from circumstances ; for Mr. Colebrooke himself has admitted the practice 
of India and other countries, of naming books on celebrated authors that never saw 
them. And the assertion of Bhattotpala, the impostor, making him the author of it, 
is here of no weight. Mr. Colebrooke also states, that ‘ Varaha Mihira is cited by 
mame in the Pancha Tantra, the original of the Fables of Pilpay, which were trans- 
lated into Persian for Nashervan, more than 1200 years ago.” As. Res. Vol. IX. 
p. 864.—All this proves nothing. For it does not follow that the Pancha Tantra of 
Vishna Sarmana is the original of the Fables of Pilpay : on the contrary, it is more 
likely that the latter should be the original of the former, and perhaps of many others, 
under different names, in the same manner as we have a number of Ramayanas, and 
other books on subjects of the same kind. We have no proof whatever that the 
Pancha Tantra of Vishnu Sarmana is even a hundred years old : for, to prove that it 
was the identical one that was translated into Persian more than 1200 years ago, it 
ought be shown, that the name of Varaha Mihira, was actually in that very transla- 
tion, and still continues, without which it could be no proof; for we know that all 
Hinda books are liable to interpolations, and consequently the Pancha Tranta as 
niuch so as any other. But, supposing the fact was tree, that the name of Varaha 
Mihira was actually in the original translation into Persian apwards of 1200 years 
ago, what would that prove, after all? It could only go to prove that there have 
been more persons of the name of Varaha Mihira than one ; but it would never affect 
the time of the author of the Varaki Sanhita, who was the contemporary with Akber. 
Mr. Colebrooke himself, seems to say, there have been more than one Varaha 
Mibira, (Notes and Illustrations, p. li.) but I have not seen as yet any sufficient 
proof to that effect, and therefore I am disposed to believe there was but one, and to 
consider all the rest as arising from the effect of imposition. I have seén an old copy 
of the Vrikat Jatuka above alluded to by Mr. Colebrooke, and it does not contain a 
syllable of what he states, as to Varaha Mihira living in the fifth or sixth centary of 
the Christian era, &c. I think Mr. Colebrooke, like my old friend, the late Colonel 
Wilford, and perhaps many others, was imposed on by his crafty dependants, who 
studied bis inclinatiens and his wishes, and, from knowing the bias of his sentiments, 
were thereby enabled to practise, with security and advantage to themselves, their 
imposture of forged and interpolated books, which they produced for bim, or put in 
his way to obtain, as might appear best to answer their purpose. 


Zz 


Digitized by Google 


170 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


that does not accord with these decisive facts, must 
be taken and considered as an absolute forgery or 
imposition ; but it may be useful to point the artful 
manner by which they were conducted, which never 
could have been fully detected, had it not been for 
the circumstance of the heliacal rising of Canopus, 
given by Varaha Mihira himself, of the effect of 
which, perhaps, they were not fully aware, other- 
wise they would in all probability have expunged 
it: but so it always happens, that impostors, how- 
ever careful they may be, in giving a plausible 
appearance to their writings, yet, overlook some 
circumstance, which entirely overthrows the whole 
fabric ; as may be seen by the instance above given. 
But it is not the above instance alone that we are to 
notice ; there are many others, some of which I 
shall now bring forward to support the same facts. 


THE BHASVATI. 


This work I have noticed above, as being pre- 
tended to ;have been written by a person of the 
name of Satananda in the year A.D. 1099, who is 
also said to have been a pupil of Varaha Mihira: 
therefore, by this contrivance, Varaha Mihira would 
be placed anterior to that period. But the author 
of this work, whatever his real name may have 
been, has left us his rule for computing the cosmical 
rising of Canopus in his own time, from which we 
are enabled to judge whether the date assigned be 
true or false. His rule is thus given: Multiply the 
length of the equinoctial shadow by 25, to the pro- 
duct add 900, (the sum will be degrees, of which 
225 are equal to one sign); when the sun is in the 
longitude expressed by this quantity, then the star 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 17) 


Canopus rises cosmically, or at the same time with 
- the sun. 
Example :— The length of the equinoctial shadow 
at Ujein, cast by a gnomon of 12,is taken at 5 
Multiply this by 25, the productis . . 125 
Add 900, thesum willbe . . .-. . 1025 
Which divided by 225 for each sign, we get 4* 16° 
40’ for the sun’s longitude at the time of the cosmical 
rising of Canopus at Ujein, which, by adding 10° 20’, 
would give the heliacal rising the same as in the 
Brahma Vaiwarta Purana, &c. 


THE PANCHA SIDDHANTIKA. 


This is quoted by the commentator Bhattotpala, 
as one of the works of Varaha Mihira, and from 
which he cites a similar rule to the preceding for 
the cosmical rising of Canopus, which is thus given: 
Multiply half the equinoctial shadow by the square 
of 5, add to the product 73, the sum will be degrees 
and minutes; and when the sun’s longitude is equal 
to the sum, then Canopus rises cosmically, or at the 
same time with the sun. 

Example : — Length of the equinoctial shadow at 


Ujein is 5, and its half= . . . 23 
Multiply by the Oe of 5=25, the 
productis . . . - . 62° 30° 


Add 73, and the sum is 135° 30’ =4" 15° 30’, the 
sun’s longitude when Canopus rose cosmically at 
Ujein. 

KESAVA. 


Kesava’s rule is precisely the same as the Pancha 
Siddhantika, and therefore gives the same longitude 


Digitized by Google 


172 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


to the sun, 4° 15° 30', at the time of the cosmical 
rising of Canopus. 


THE GRAHA LAGHAVA 


Gives the following rule : — Multiply the equinoctial 
shadow by 8, to the product add 98, the sum will 
be the sun’s longitude when the star Canopus rises 
cosmically, or in the morning with thé sun: and 
subtracting the product from 78, shows the sun’s 
longitude at the heliacal setting. 

Example: —The equinoctial shadow atUjein = 5 


Multiply by 8, the product is : ; 40 
* Add to the product. ; ' , 98 
The sumis . : 138 


Or 4° 18° the sun’s longitude when Canopus rose at 
sunrise, and 78°—40°=38°, the sun’s longitude, 
when that star set heliacally at Ujein. 

The artificial rules for the cosmical rising of Ca- 
nopus by the different books being now explained, 
we shall next show the time to which they refer. 
In A.D. 1750, the cosmical rising of Canopus at 
Ujein was when the sun’s longitude was 4° 13° 34’, 
which is less than any of the Hindu books make it. 
The cause of this is owing to their method of esti- 
mating it from the sun’s longitude, at the time of 
heliacal rising of Canopus, by allowing a deduction 
of about 10 degrees. Thus the sun’s longitude at 


* The degrees added in these operations do not arise from any scientific principles ; 
they are only the differences to make up the sun’s longitude to what it is required to 
be at the cosmical rising. Thus, suppose I know that the sun’s longitude at the 
cosmical rising of Canopus is 4° 17° at Ujein, then I may multiply the length of the 
equinoctial shadow by 5,6, 8,10, or any other number, at pleasure, and add the 
difference to make up 4* 17°; for the rules are entirely artificial. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 173 


the time of heliacal rising of Canopus in A.D. 1750, 
was about 4° 25° 40’; deduct from this 10° or 103°, 
the remainder is 4° 15° 10': the Pancha Siddhantika 
and Kesava make it 415°; therefore, making every 
possible allowance for error, they cannot be older 
than the middle, or at farthest the beginning of last 
century. And the differences between the sup- 
posed dates of the books mentioned above, were 
doubtless made on purpose as a deception, to give, 
as it were, the appearance of different degrees of 
antiquity to the authors, while, in fact, they are all 
of the same period, or at least nearly so; the whole, 
with many others, being probably the contrivance of 
a junta of Brahmins during the last century. 

Here, I think, we have a complete proof of the 
imposition of the Brahmins of Ujein, in telling the 
late Dr. Hunter that Bhattotpala, who cites the 
Pancha Siddhantika, \ived near 800 years ago. Cer- 
tainly Ujein is not the place to obtain any true in- 
formation on matters of this kind, it being the very 
focus or point from which the whole of the im- 
positions appear to have originally sprung; though 
at present, I believe, the fabrication of spurious 
books, commentaries, &c. is not confined to Ujein, 
but to be found all over India, wherever the influence 
of the Brahmins prevails. 


THE BRAHMA VAIVARTA AND BHAVISYA 
PURANAS. 
' 
These books state the heliacal rising of Canopus 
when the sun is 3° short of Virgo, or 4* 27° of Leo: 


they are therefore the productions of the same period ; 
and thus we may see that the Puranas are not so 


Digitized by Google 


174 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


ancient as generally supposed, or the Hindus and 
others would wish us to believe. 

The epoch of the two Bhaswatis is the year 1021 
Saca, or A.D.1099. Bhattotpala, according to the 
information received by Dr. Hunter when at Ujein, 
was said to have lived about the year 890 of Saca, or 
A.D. 968; Kesava about 1382 Saca, or A.D. 1440; 
and the epoch of the Grahalaghava, feigned to be 
written by Ganesa, the son of Kesava, 1442 Saca, or 
A.D.1520. And yet none of them, from what has | 
been shown above, can be referred further back than 
the middle or beginning of last century. Hence we 
can depend on neither names, dates, nor epochs in 
Hindu books. One Gungadhur is said to have writ- 
ten a commentary on the work of Bhaskara Acharya 
in the year 1342 Saca, or A. D. 1420, which we know, 
from the time of Varaha Mihira, A. D. 1528, already 
determined, to be impossible, in respect of date. 
Laksmidas, the feigned grandson of Kesava, wrote a 
commentary on the Siddhanta Siromani of Bhaskara, 
in which all the calculations of the places of the 
planets, and the cosmical and heliacal risings of two 
of the stars, are made for the end of the year 4601 of 
the Kali Yuga, or A.D.1500. This, no doubt, was 
done with a view to make it believed that he lived 
and wrote at the very epoch for which he made his 
calculation: but how could this be, if his supposed 
grandfather, Kesava, lived only about the middle of 
last century, or say, even in the beginning of it, at 
farthest? In fact, names, dates, and astronomical 
epochs, are given to books, at the will and pleasure | 
of the writers, and seldom have any reference to the 
names, dates, and epochs of the real authors.* The 


“TI mentioned this circamstance to a Hindu astronomer, who acknowledged the 
fact, and, in defence of it, said : ‘Some men make the commencement of the Kalpa, 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. - 175 


object here, as well as in all the rest was to support 
the pretended antiquity of Varaha Mihira, and of 
Bhaskara Acharya, the latter of whom the author 
states for that purpose, as having been born in the 
year 1036 of Saca (A.D. 1114), and of his having 
written the Siddhanta Siromani in the year 1072 of 
Saca, at the age of 36. The work, however, though 
intended to support an imposition, is useful in other 
respects: it gives the different operations for deter- 
mining the mean and the true places of the planets, 
both heliocentric and geocentric; the calculations of 
lunar and solar eclipses; the rising and setting of 
the planets, &c. tegether with the cosmical and 
heliacal rising of a Delphini and Canopus, by which it 
is shown, that the sun’s longitude at the times of. 
the cosmical and heliacal rising of the stars is 
reckoned from the vernal equinoctial point, and not 
from the beginning of Aswini, or the Hindu sphere. 
Thus, in calculating the cosmical and heliacal rising 


the epoch from which they direct the calculations of the places of the planets to be 
made for any time required. Others make choice of the beginning of the Kali Yuga 
for the same purpose. Have we not, therefore, a right to make choice of any other 
epoch, such as 2, 3, 4, or 5 hundred years or more, back from our own times, for 
the like purpose?” To which I replied, that certainly they had ; but that, in conse- 
quence of the epoch’s being brought down to modern times, and within the scale of 
probability, others were deceived by it, and supposed the author must have lived at 
the epoch for which he gave the positions of the planets. To which he replied, that 
that was not their fault ; for that thére was no absolute connection whatever between 
the epochs and the times of the authors: that they might be the same or not, as 
they found it best to answer the purpose: that in astronomical books, the principal 
object was to give rules for determining the places of the planets for any time re- 
quired, from the motions and positions given at some certain epoch, without any 
regard to the time of the author. I asked him, if he framed an astronomical work, 
and placed the epoch from which the calculation should proceed 1000 years back, if 
he would put his name to it, and own the work. He replied, he could do so, on the 
principle already explained ; but, in such cases, it was usual to put the name of 
some ancient sage to it, or that of some fictitious astronomer, with av account of his 
birth, parentage, connections, and country, in order to give it the plausible ap- 
pearance of being anvient and real, which, according to modern notions, would much 
evhance its value. 


Digitized by Google 


176 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


of Canopus for the 4602d year of the Kali Yuga, or 
A.D. 1500, he takes tabular longitude, or the dis- 
tance between the beginning of Aswini and the point 
of the ecliptic cut by the circle of declination of the 
star, whichis. ‘ : ; 87° 
He takes the tabular latitude: or distance 

between the same point and the star, 

counted on the circle of declination, 
- which is , 77 
From these he determines, ‘by approximations, the 
true longitude, latitude, and declination. That is to 
say, the longitude, reckoned from the beginning of 
Aswini, to the point in the ecliptic cut by the circle 
of latitude, which he makes. ; 80° 39’ 11” 
Making a difference between the points 

of the ecliptic cut by the circle of de- 

_ clination and that of latitude ‘ 6 20 49 
The true longitude of the star from the beginning of 
Aswini being thus determined, he then adds the pre- 
- cession of the equinoxes, down to the end of the 
_ year 4601 of the Kali Yuga (A. D. 1500) 16° 10’ 59", 

the sum gives the longitude of the star in A.D. 1500, 
reckoned from the vernal equinoctial point, equal 
to. é ; : . ; 2 96° 50’ 10° 
He then determines the sun’s longitude 

at the cosmical and heliacal rising of 

the star at Benares, where the length 

of the equinoctial shadow is found to 


be 5 50"= 5.75, or latitude north . 25°36 8° 
He makes the cosmical rising, when the 

sun’s longitude was . . . 4°16° 
The heliacal rising at . . . 42536 9 


All of which are reckoned from the vernal equinoetial 
point, or beginning of Aries, and not from the begin- 
ning of the Hindu sphere. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 177 


It is, however, to be observed, that there is an 
error in the computed longitude of Canopus used, 
which affects all the calculations connected with it. 
The longitude of Canopus in A.D. 1500, at the end 
of the year 4601 of the Kali Yuga, by 

European Tables, was. . 3° 8° 1'30° 
But by the Hindu computation, it was 

only : F : : ; 3 6 50 10 
Difference, the latter too little by 0 1 11 20 
Which must, of course, affect the results of the cal- 
culations. 

In A.D. 1500, the latitude of Canopus 


was. : : : 75°51’ 0" 
The right ascension , ; ; 93 12 33 
The declination 52 26 0 


And the obliquity of the ecliptic 23 30 22 
If we now take the latitude of Benares 
at what the Hindus state it, from the 
length of the equinoctial shadow, as 25 36 8 
The cosmical rising of Canopus in A. D. 


1500, will come out F : 4°17° 6' 34" 
Differing from the Hindu computation 
by. . . . . . © 21 6384 


THE SPURIOUS ARYA SIDDHANTA. 


This trifling production, has been substituted in 
the place of the real one, now suppressed (see 
Sec. III.): but notwithstanding all the care that has 
been taken to prevent detection, appears to be a 
forgery of very modern date. In this, as well as in 
the works above mentioned, care had been taken 
that the positions of the planets at the epochs as- 
sumed, should be made to agree with the times; for 

AA 


Digitized by Google 


178 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


they discovered, from the circumstances of the Pa- 
rasara Siddhanta (given in Sec. III.), that pretending 
a book to be ancient would not alone be sufficient, 
as it would be liable to be detected by the positions 
of the planets not agreeing with such pretended an- 
tiquity, but to a more modern period, the time when 
the work was actually written; and therefore, in 
computing the places of the planets for forged 
epochs of antiquity, they perceived the necessity of 
computing from some tables the actual positions for 
the time. It is not, however, on the mere position 
of the planets alone that we are to depend ; for these 
may be so accurately determined for the time, by 
computation, as completely to baffle all our attempts 
in detecting the fraud. We are, therefore, to have 
recourse to other means, and to consider every cir- 
cumstance that serves to point out the work to be 
more modern’than the period to which imposition 
has referred it, as we have done with the books 
above mentioned, which, by means of the cosmical 
risings of Canopus, are decisively proved to be forge- 
ries in respect to their dates, epochs, names, &e. 

_ The revolutions of the planets given in the spurious 
Arya Siddhanta, have no affinity whatever with those 
given in the real Arya Siddhanta: they appear to 
have been computed from those given in the Surya 
Siddhanta. The revolutions of the planets given in 
the Surya Siddhanta, answered when that work was 
written ;. but in process of time, they were found to 
require ; corrections, to make them agree with the 
actual positions. of the planets corresponding to the 
time; so. that about 260 or 300 years ago, it was’ 
found necessary to make the following corrections, : 
which the Hindu astronomers call ij : — 


aificea LS00gle 


OF THE HINDUS. 179 


Mercury ‘s ( 16 revolations in 4320000 years, subtractive from 17937060 
Venus 8 1D ditto ere cece nee e rc censccncceas 7022376 
Mars BS] 0 daa enceeenccsceccsececnssccs 2296832 
Jupiter FE] 8 hee anc cee cencecnccercos sees 864220 
Saturn S< IZ da vacencccsens additive to. 146568 
Sun = 10 sac cceccccccccccccsecccesess 4320000 
Moon 3 DO ca cee m ccc vercvonccccccvecces 57753336 

Apogee 5 , rere subtractivefrom 488208 
—— Node Yvan Ss cetewelecse additive to.... 232238 


the revolutions on the right hand of the page, being 
those given in the Surya Siddhanta, for 4320000 
years. The Surya Siddhanta, from what is shown 
in Section II. appears to have been written about 
the year A.D. 1091; therefore, in framing numbers 
to answer for a period anterior to A.D. 1091, we 
would apply the corrections with a contrary sign, 
thus: the number of revolutions of Venus in 4320000 
by the Surya Siddhanta = 7022376 ; but this number 
in modern times (about A.D. 1550), required to be 
diminished by 12, to render the result correct: con- 
sequently, in going back from A.D. 1091, the num- 
ber would require to be increased, instead of dimi- ‘ 
nished; so that, if the distance of time was the 
same, the number would come out 7022376 +12= 
7022388, which is the number given in the spurious 
Arya Siddhanta. Other means, such as European or 
Mahomedan tables, might have been also used for 
the more effectual correcting the numbers; but this 
explanation is sufficient. 

The following Table exhibits the numbers, ac- 
cording to the Surya Siddhanta and the spurious Arya 
Siddhanta, with their differences. 


Surya Siddhanta. Spurious Arya Siddhanta. 
Sun, 4320000 . 4320000 difference 0 
Moon, 57753336 . 577533386 . . 0) 
— Apogee, 488203. . 488219 . . + 16 
— Node, 232238 3 232226 . .—12 


Digitized by Google 


380 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


Surya Siddhanta. Spurious Arya Siddhanta. 
Mercury 17937060 . 17937020 diff. — 40 
Venus, 7022376 . 7022388 . . + 12 
Mars, 2296832 . 2296824 . .— 8 
Jupiter, 364220 —«zj 364224 ..+ 4 
Saturn, - 146568. 146564. .— 4 


From this table it will readily appear, by the dif- 
ferences in the numbers, that the spurious Arya 
Siddhanta, is placed several centuries anterior to the 
Surya Siddhanta, which work, however, is quoted by 
the former, as also Brahma Gupta and the Brahma 
Siddhanta. The date given to it is the year 3623 of 
the Kali Yuga, or A.D. 522, which is 16 years before 
the sideral form now in use was introduced. All 
these facts, I think, are sufficient, nowithstanding 
all the care that has been taken to prevent detection, 
to show it to be a mere modern imposition. 

The first thing that strikes a person, on looking 
over this trifling-work, is the order in which the 
planets are named, being the same as in the Euro- 
pean or Mahomedan books of astronomy, and con- 
trary to the universal practice of all other Hindu 
astronomers, who arrange the names of the planets 
in the same order, as they are expressed by the 
days of the week; that is, the sun, moon, Mars, 
- Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn. Whereas the 
writer of this spurious production, names them in 
the following order: the sun, moon, Mercury, Venus, 
Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn; or reversing it, by be- 
ginning with Saturn. From which circumstance I 
think it may be naturally inferred, that some Euro- 
pean or Mahomedan tables had been employed in 
the framing of its numbers, or at least in correcting 
them, and perhaps by European hands. Indeed, for 
some years past, many things have appeared, as if 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 181 


written by Hindus, in which the assistance at least 
of Europeans appears conspicuous; such as the 
vaccine innoculation, Sir Isaac Newton’s method of 
fluxions, &c. &c. It is certainly true, that as the 
Hindus become more and more acquainted with the 
European languages, writings, and arts and sciences, 
they are thereby enabled to give a view of the Euro- 
pean sciences in Sanscrit, and father them on some of 
their own ancient sages, if they think, that by so doing, 
they will exalt themselves in the eyes of the world, 
by making them believe that their forefathers were 
the persons from whom the arts and sciences, even 
in their present improved state, originally sprung. 

But to return. The next thing that attracts at- 
tention in the spurious Arya Siddhanta is the com- 
mencing of the Kalpa, or grand period, with Thurs- 
day, instead of Sunday, which is entirely contrary to 
all the Hindu books that give regular systems. This, 
most probably, may be owing to an ignorance of the 
method of constructing a regular system; for to a 
person acquainted with the process, it is as easy to 
make Sunday the first day of the Kalpa, as any 
other day: but Sunday being the first day of the 
week, it is natural that it should be the first day of the 
Kalpa, and is so given in all the books of astronomy 
that I have seen, except the spurious Arya Sid- 
dhanta. The Kalpa, by this book, begins at sunrise, 
1986120000 years before the beginning of Kali Yuga. 
In this number of years there are 725447570625 days 
complete, which, divided by 7, give 103635367232 
weeks, and one day over: therefore, as the Kali 
Yuga began with Friday, the Kalpa began on 
Thursday. 

The system, in every point of view, is imperfect: 
it gives no revolutions for computing the places of 


Digitized by Google 


Pa 


182 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


the aphelia and nodes of the planets, nor any rule 
for determining the precession of the equinoxes for 
any particular period of time required ; thus showing 
a want of knowledge in the requisites for forming a 
complete system. 

But though he neither gives the revolutions of the 
nodes nor apsides, he gives the positions of the aphelia 
of the planets, which however are.computed from 
the numbers given in the genuine Arya Siddhanta 
(Section III.): this completely overturns the whole 
machinery, and shows it to be modern, in spite of 
all the art and cunning that had been employed in 
the forgery. Beside the decisive fact here mentioned, 
there are other circumstances in the book, that would 
also show that it is of a late date; for the author ex- 
hibits his knowledge in modern improvements. For 
instance, he gives the ratio, or proportion of the 
diameter of a circle to its circumference, as 20000 to 
62832; that is, as 10000 to 31416, or 1 to 3.146; 
the raultiplying it by 20000 was evidently to dis- 
guise it. This proportion of the diameter to the cir- 
cumference, was totally unknown in the days of the 
genuine Aryabhatta, and is in fact the very same as 
given by Bhaskara Acharya, in another form, in the 
Lilavati. 

It also states the diameter of the earth, 1050 yojans. 

ofthe sun, 4410 
of the moon, 315 
of Venus, 65 
of Jupiter, 3220 
of Mercury, 2140 
of Saturn, 1615 
of Mars, 65 
of Meru, 1 
And the orbit of the wind, 3375 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. : 183 


' with other particulars, of no interest or value to the 
astronomer. It contains about 20 small leaves, and 
goes by the name of the Laghu, or small Arya Sid- 
dhanta. The genuine Arya Siddhanta contains 40 
leaves or more, exclusive of the part that is lost. 

It would be needless to waste any more time in 
going over its contents: what has been shown must 
be perfectly sufficient to convince any man of com- 
mon sense of its being a downright modern forgery, 
intended to supersede the genuine Arya Siddhanta. 
There is, however, one passage in it which deserves to 
be noticed, as it will be of use hereafter in showing 
other forgeries to be brought forward. The passage 
relates to Brahma Gupta, whom he mentions in 
quoting the Brahma Siddhanta, and stands thus : — © 


ARR Taeht Bt sca Uats | Aaafeqiraate wea! 
aratiearenfenard aad | SAA AAA TY A TSIEN 


He also quotes from the Surya Siddhanta; but in 
so doing there is no inconsistency; for the genuine 
Aryabhatta was long posterior to the times of either 
of these works. The principal forgery consists in 
the attempt to falsify the epoch of Aryabhatta, by 
throwing him back into antiquity, and in suppressing, 
for that purpose, the genuine Arya Siddhanta. 


PULISA SIDDHANTA. 


There is another work, called the Pulisa Siddhanta, 
which is said to have been written in opposition to 
the doctrines contained in the spurious Arya Sid- 
dhanta. It gives the same number of revolutions to 
the erpiness as the spurious Arya Siddhanta, except 


Digitized by Google 


184 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY . 


for Mercury, which it makes 17937000, instead of 
17937020; and for Jupiter 364220, instead of 364224, 
which, however, may arise from miscopying. The 
- number of days given by Pulisa, as he is called, for 
a Maha Yuga, or 4320000 years, is 1577917800, 
which divided by 4, gives 394479450 in 1080000 
years; and these being divided by 7, give 56354207 
weeks, and one day over: hence the system, in 
respect of commencement and cycles, is the same 
with the Surya Siddhanta. And as the length of the 
year is 365%" 15 31' 30’, it must commence at mid- 
night, in order that, in reckoning from the beginning of 
the Kali Yuga, it may agree, at least nearly so, with 
the Surya Siddhanta in respect to the moon’s place, &c. 
For if it was to begin at sunrise, then at the end of 
the year 3600 of the Kali Yuga, it would differ from 
the Surya Siddhanta by nearly six hours; and the 
error in the moon’s place would be proportional to 
that difference, because the revolutions of the moon 
given in the Pulisa Siddhanta are the same with those 
given in the Surya Siddhanta. This Pulisa also fol- 
lows the spurious Arya Siddhanta, in adopting the 
- same proportion of the diameter of a circle to its cir- 
cumference, viz. 1 to 3.146, which he employs in 
computing the diameters of the orbits of the planets. 
Thus, the circumference of the orbit of Venus being 
2664632 yojans, the diameter will be 848176, and 
the semidiameter 424088, as given in Bhattotpala’s 
quotations: so that, though the Pulisa Siddhanta be 
feigned to be written in opposition to the spurious 
Arya Siddhanta, it is only like one impostor attacking 
another, as by mutual consent, on some trivial point, 
. but with a view of supporting him in that which is 
the main object of both — imposition in respect of 
time, Bhattotpala, or the person who assumes that 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 181 


name, whom [ have shown to have lived about the 
middle of last century, I believe was the author of 
this Pulisa Siddhanta; for he seems to show the same 
partiality to it, in exhibiting its system, as Aryabhatta 
had done in respect to the Parasara Siddhanta, 
which was doubtless his work. 

The fact is, that literary forgeries are now so com- 
mon in India, that we can hardly know what book is 
genuine, and what not: perhaps there is not one 
book in a hundred, nay, probably in a thousand, that 
is not a forgery, in some point of view or other; and 
even those that are allowed or supposed to be 
genuine, are found to be full of interpolations, to 
answer some particular ends: nor need we be sur- 
prised at all this, when we consider the facilities 
they have for forgeries, as well as their own general 
inclination and interest in following that profession ; 
for to give the appearance of antiquity to their books 
and authors increases their value, at least in the eyes 
of some. Their universal propensity to forgeries, 
ever since the introduction of the modern system of 
astronomy and immense periods of years in A.D. 
538, are but too well known to require any further 
elucidation than those already given. They are 
under no restraint of laws, human or divine, and 
subject to no punishment, even if detected in the 
most flagrant literary impositions. 


THE SPURIOUS BRAHMA SIDDHANTA, 


AND 


BRAHMA SIDDHANTA SPHUTA. 


We come now to notice another forgery —the 
Brahma Siddhanta Sphuta*, the author of which I 


* This spurious production was found by Mr. Colebrooke on the shelf of his 
library, as he himself declared, without knowing he had it. He could not know 


BB 


. Digitized by Google 


182 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


believe I know. The object of this forgery was to 
throw Varaha Mihira, who lived about the. time of 
Akber, back into antiquity, by placing him before 
the time of Brahma Gupta, who is supposed to have 
been the author of the Brahma Siddhanta,. framed 
about the year A.D. 538, and the oldest of all the 
modern astronomical works now extant. 

The. Brahma Siddhanta Sphuta, is not, however, 
the only forgery that has been contrived to serve the 
like purpose ; for it appears that a spurious or inter- 
polated Brahma Siddhanta is made to quote Aryab- 
hatta in several places. Now it is to be particularly 
remarked, that the quotations made are derived from 
the spurious Arya Siddhanta above given; and yet 
the spurious Arya Siddhanta quotes both Brahma 
Gupta and the Brahma Siddhanta. Here, then, is a 
downright contradiction, which is to be accounted 
for by the forger not having the spurious Arya Sid- 
dhanta in his possession, and therefore could not | 
foresee that it might ultimately detect him. The 
passages. interpolated were to be found in the Sarva- 
bhauma, or its commentary, and perhaps in other 
books. 

Thus we see how Brahma Gupta, a person who 
lived long before Aryabhatta and Varaha Mihira, is 
made to quote them, for the purpose of throwing 
them back into antiquity. Pulisa is also introduced 
for the same purpose.— Now what does all this 
prove? It proves most certainly that the Brahma 
Siddhanta cited, or at least a part of it, is a complete 
forgery, probably framed, among many other books, 
during the last century by a junta of Brahmins, for 
the purpose of carrying on a regular systematic im- 


that he had it, because it was purposely placed there for him to find, no doubt, by 
the person who framed it. More need not be said on the subject ; this is sufficient. 


“Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 187 


position. Under this view of the case, we need not 
be surprised at agreements in quotations, respecting 
the Brahma Siddhanta, said to be found in different 
books; for these books themselves may have been 
forged, or interpolated to answer the purpose in- 
tended. We see a complete combination throughout, 
and therefore cannot, surely, place any reliance on 
assertions or quotations that are expressly contra- 
dicted by astronomical facts: and therefore, we 
must consider that Brahma Gupta, was either a mere 
modern of last century, or else that the books now 
attributed to him, are downright forgeries, either in 
part or the whole. 

_ Mere agreement in quotations, nay, allowing the 
quotations to be just, and to have been ‘actually in 
the original, will never make a work or works that 
are spurious genuine also; for it must be well 
known, that the practice of impostors is to interlard 
their productions with genuine passages, in order to 
give strength to the forgeries, and cause deception. 
The Brahma Siddhanta being shown to be a forgery, 
at least in part, from the quotations of the names of 
Varaha Mihira, Aryabhatta, Pulisa, and others (con- 
tained, as Mr. Colebrooke says, in the eleventh 
chapter of that work), any reference made to it to 
support the authenticity of the Brahma Siddhanta 
Sphuta, cannot alter the fact of that being also a 
forgery. The passage referred to by Mr. Colebrooke 
for this purpose is, however, a mere fiction, intended 
to convey an idea of the extraordinary antiquity of 
the Hindu modern systems. The passage is this : — 
** The computation of the planets taught by Brahma, 
which had become imperfect by great length of time, 
is propounded correct (Sphuta) by Brahma Gupta, 
son of Jishnu.” 


Digitized by Google 


188 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


In the first place, it is acknowledged, on the face 
of the passage, that the computation of the places of 
the planets taught by Brahma, became imperfect by 
great length of time (that is, to give an appearance 
of antiquity to the system). In the second place, it 
states that Brahma Gupta propounds them as cor- 
rect. Then who is the person that states them to 
have become incorrect? It could not be Brahma 
Gupta, since he propounds them as correct; for the 
passage does not say that le corrected them: con- 
sequently, since they are stated to be correct in the 
time of Brahma Gupta, he must be the identical 
framer of the system, and of the Brahma Siddhanta 
containing it, under the fictitious name of Brahma. 
But what is more remarkable is, that ‘ the compu- 
tation is propounded correct by Brahma Gupta, the 
son of Jishnu;” which evidently appears as if spoken 
or written by another person, and not by Brahma 
Gupta, who would naturally say, “‘ is propounded 
correct by me.” 

Under all these circumstances, the passage is 
evidently a forgery, and was never written by 
Brahma Gupta: but whether it has any allusion to 
the Brahma Siddhanta Sphuta, under the colour of 
the word Sphuta, I will not pretend to say; but 
there is no doubt but that is also a forgery, as I have 
already stated. : 

The following is another passage quoted by 
Mr. Colebrooke from this Brahma Siddhanta, wherein 
Brahma Gupta is made to say: “ I will refute the 
errors respecting the Yugas, and other matters, of 
those who, misled by ignorance, maintain things 
contrary to the Brahma Siddhanta.” In the former 
passage, Brahma Gupta is made to speak in the 
third person, in this in the first person, which is 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 189 


rather inconsistent; but it does not seem that either 
should be by him. The latter appears as a passage 
by some person coming forward to support with all 
his might, a work already written, under the name 
of the Brahma Siddhanta; so that it could not be 
supposed to mean the work in which the passage is 
found, and of course then unfinished. These two 
passages alone, I think, would be sufficient to prove 
the forgery, without any other assistance; for they 
are both said to be taken from one and the same 
work, which I call the spurious Brahma Siddhanta. 

Mr. Colebrooke seems to have been led into a 
belief, from the forgeries above mentioned, that an- 
‘cient works contained improvements not to be found 
in more modern ones. 

It is certainly possible, that an earlier writer may 
have an improvement in his work; not noticed by a 
later one who has not seen it, and therefore ignorant 
of the circumstance: but this cannot possibly be the 
case where a writer quotes another; for then he 
knows the whole of the work he cites, and cannot 
be ignorant of the improvement made: consequently, 
wherever such circumstances appear, they are sure 
indications of forgery. 

Thus, in the spurious Brahma Siddhanta, Brahma 
Gupta is made to quote Aryabhatta, and also a part 
of his system. The Arya Siddhanta quoted by him 
is the spurious one, in which the proportion of the 
diameter of a circle to its circumference is stated at 
20000 to 62832. But Brahma Gupta, in his geo- 
metry, does not give this proportion, but states it as 
1 to the square root of 10, or as 1 to 3.16227, which 
is a proof that Brahma Gupta, the author of the 
geometry under his name, never saw the spurious 
Arya Siddhanta, though he is made to quote that 


Digitized by Google 


190 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


work. The spurious Brahma Siddhanta, together 
with the spurious Arya Siddhanta, are doubtless the 
productions of the last century, at farthest; but the 
Brahma Siddhanta, in the state in which it is quoted by 
Mr. Colebrooke, may be even of the present century: 
_ I shall now introduce a passage which Mr. Cole- 
brooke has brought forward, by way of supporting 
his opinion respecting the positions of the colures. 
He says: ‘ The passage in which this author, 
Brahma Gupta, denies the precession of the colures, 
as well as the comment of his scholiast on it, being 
material to the present argument, they are here sub- 
joined in a literal version.” * 

“* The very fewest hours of night occur at the end of 
Mithuna (Gemini), and the seasons are governed by the 
sun’s motion. Therefore the pair of solstices appears 
to be stationary, by the evidence of a pair of eyes.” That 
Js to say, according to this passage of Brahma Gupta, 
the solstices are always fixed to the beginning of Can- 
cer and Capricorn, which is strictly true, and are so 
now. Brahma Gupta, by this passage, did not say 
there was no precession in respect of the fixed stars : 
all that he meant and declared was, that the solstice 
was fixed to the beginning of Cancer and Capricorn 
in the moveable sphere, and had no reference what- 
_ ever to the sideral sphere, which is fixed, and the 
signs of which, beginning with the Lunar Asterism 
Aswini, have no names, but are expressed numeri- 
cally; consequently there was not the slightest 
ground for misunderstanding the meaning of Brahma 
Gupta, or attempting to give it a turn he never in- 
tended. He further adds: 

_ The commentator (Prithudaca Swami) says: - What 


* Notes and Iustrations, xxxvi. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 191 


is said by Vishnu Chandra, at the beginning of the 

chapter on the Yuga of the solstice [the revolutions, 

though the asterisms are here in 4320000000 years a 

hundred and eighty nme thousand four hundred and 

eleven (189411), which is termed a Yuga (revolution ) 

of the solstice, as of old admitted by Brahma, Arca, and 

the rest], is wrong ; for the very fewest hours of night 

to us occur when the sun's place is at the end of Mithuna 

(Gemini), and of course the very utmost hours of day 

are at the same period. From that limitary point, the 

sun’s progress regulates the seasons, namely, the cold 

season (Sisira), and the rest, comprising two months 

each, reckoned from Macara (Capricorn): therefore 

what has been said concerning the motion of the limitary 

point is wrong, being. contradicted by actual observation 
of days and nights.” This is precisely the same as 

stated by Brahma Gupta, and has no relation what- 

ever to the precession of the equinoxes in respect of 
the-fixed stars, which is Vishnu Chandra’s meaning. 
They are both right according to the sense in which | 
they themselves meant. 

Then comes an interpolation conitadivtng Prithu- 
daca Swami, which I have every reason to believe, 
from the nature of the questions put to me on the 
subject of the colures by a certain astrologer, was 
surreptitiously inserted by him, by which he makes 
the commentator contradict what-he said just Pees 
for there is no other person mentioned. 

“« The objection, however, is not valid; for now 
the greatest decrease and increase of night and day 
do not happen when the sun is in the end of M- 
thuna” (Gemini).* By this artful interpolation, -he 
thought to overturn the opinion I had given him, 


* Notes and Ilustrations, xxxvi. 


’ Digitized by Google 


192 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


which was, that the solstices were mow, and at all 
times, in the beginning of Cancer and Capricorn. 
He has shown by it, not only his own ignorance of 
the Hindu astronomy, but also his propensity to 
forgery; for there is hardly a work on astronomy 
that would not expose the imposition. The matter 
of fact is this: — The Hindu astronomers, as I have 
stated in another place, employ two spheres, the 
sideral or fixed, which commences from the begin- 
ning of the Lunar Asterism Aswint: the other sphere 
is moveable, and is precisely the same with what is 
called the European or Tropical sphere, in which 
the signs begin from the vernal equinoctial point. 
In the former, the signs are merely numerically: ex- 
pressed ; but in the latter, to distinguish them from 
the former, they are named as in Europe, Aries, 
Taurus, Gemini, &c.; therefore they can never be 
confounded, except through ignorance, inadvertence, 
or for the sake of imposition, as done in the above 
quoted passage, where the third Hindu sign is falsely 
called Mithuna (Gemini), as will be fully and satis- 
factorily proved in the next section. 

With respect to Vishnu Chandra’s number of re- 
volutions of the equinoxes in 4320000000 years, 
being stated at 189411, it is certainly wrong, when ap- 
plied to any of the known Kalpas. Mr. Colebrooke 
at one time was ofthe same opinion*: but in a note 
which he has added to his paper, in the twelfth 
volume of the Asiatic Researches, on the precession 
of the equinoxes, he has altered that opinion, and 
states the number as rightt; which, however, on 
the principles of the Hindu astronomy, it cannot 
possibly be so, because, if tried with the years now 


* As. Res. Vol. XII. p. 215. + Note after p. 250. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 193 


elapsed of any of the known Kainas, it will not give 
the quantity of the precession for the present time, 
which is the only mode of proving whether the 
number be true or otherwise; for if it does not 
answer the purpose for which it was intended, of 
eourse it must be considered as either incorrect, or 
an imposition. 

In the second section (page 131), I have shown 
that the number of years elapsed of the system of 
Brahma to the year 4900 of the Kali Yuga, was 
1972948900, and that the precession of the equi- 
noxes then amounted to 0 21° 9' 34". If we now 
try Vishnu Chandra’s number 189411] for the same 
period, we shall have by the formula, “Same = 
(86504 Revol.) 2' 18° 40’ 29, differing from the truth 
by upwards of 47°; and in like manner it is found 
to differ in all the other known systems. 

But Brahma Gupte is made to speak of this 
Vishnu Chandra (Brahma Siddhanta, C.11 and 14), 
stating, that he wag the author of the Vasisht'ha 

_ Siddhanta, and that he took the mean motions of the 
sun and moon, with the lunar apogee and nodes, and 
other specified particulars, from Aryabhatta; * then, 
if so, the system of Vishnu Chandra must be the 
same with that of Aryabhatta; for the numberg 
must be always framed to answer the system of 
years, and will not agree with any other, ~The 
Qbject here, ag may be easily seen, is to throw 
Aryabhatta back into antiquity; for if Vishnu Chan- 
dra borrows his system from Aryabhatta, and Brahma 
“Gupta mentions the circumstance, then it is evident 
both the one and the other must have been anterior 
to him, that is to say, provided it is not a mere fiction 


* As. Res. Vol. XII. Note after p. 250. 
cc 


Digitized by Google 


194 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


invented for the purpose. We shall now try Vishnu 
Chandra’s number above given, with the system of 
Aryabhatta, in which the time elapsed to the year 
4900 of the Kali Yuga=1969924900 years, from 
which the precession of the equinoxes will be 
= Ex eseree — (86371 Revol.) 7° 17° 6 which differs 
greatly from the truth: therefore this cannot be the 
system supposed to be employed. Let us, there- 
fore, try the system of the spurious Arya Siddhanta. 
By this system, the number of years elapsed of the 
Kalpa to the year 4900 of the Kali Fuga = 1986124900: 
therefore the precession will be=""agee =(87081 
Revol.) 11° 1° 57’, and which also differs widely from 
the truth: therefore, I say the number is an imposi- | 
tion. _ But even if the number had been right, it 
would not have altered the fact of the passage being 
an imposition, in respect of Brahma Gupta who is 
thus made to speak of persons that lived many cen-— 
turies after his own time. 

All this, and perhaps a great deal more not vet 
brought to light, is, lam satisfied, the fabrication of the 
astrologer already alluded to. He offered his services 
to me before he was in the employ of Mr. Colebrooke ; 
but when he told me that his profession was book- 
making, and that he could forge any book whatever, 
to answer any purpose that might be required, I re- 
plied, I wanted no forged books — that there were 
too many of that description already — that I was 
extremely glad he was so candid, and must decline _ 
his services in any way whatever. In the course of 
the conversation: that passed, he made himself ac- 
quainted with Mr. Colebrooke’s opinions that were _ 
in opposition to mine, which it seems he. carefully 
treasured up in his mind. He went directly to 
Mr. Colebrooke’s from my house, and there got into 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 195 


immediate employ, as he himself afterwards informed 
me. This will serve to explain the circumstance 
of the forged book (the Brahma Siddhanta Sphuta), 
being found by Mr. Colebrooke on the shelf in his 
library, without knowing that he had it; as also the 
various forgeries of names and quotations in the 
spurious Brahma Siddhanta, made up on purpose, to 
throw the persons named back into antiquity to 
answer the end in view; but in so doing, he was de- 
tected and foiled by the very books of the authors 
themselves, which showed the times in which they 
lived and wrote, beyond the power of forgery to per- 
vert or contradict. More, I think, need not be said; 
and I hope this will put an end to the subject for 
ever, particularly as the forgeries are incontestibly 
proved, independent of all other considerations and 
circumstances whatever. 


Digitized by Google 


196 : THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


SECTION VI. 


Self-defence the olject of this Section — The notions of Mr. Colebrooke respecting 
- the positions of the stars at the general epoch, as indicating the age of the 
works in which they are found, tnconsistent with real facts, being given in 
books of ali ages — Mr. Colebrooke’s notions respecting the names Aries, 
Taurus, §c. being applied to the signs of the Hindw sphere, incorrect — Proved 
to belong exclusively to the signs of the Tropical sphere, by tables and passages 
in modern Hindu books — Passage from Brahma Gupta to the same effect — 
Passage from Varaha Mihira to the same effect — Another from the Tatwa- 
chintamani, containing a computation of the sun's place, reckoned both from 
Aswini and Aries, to the same effect — A translation of a passage in Bhattot- 
pala’s Commentary to the same effect — The translation by Mr. Colebrooke 
himself, but not published or noticed by him— Nor the other facts stated — 
Mr. Colebrooke notices the heliacal rising of Canopus at Ujein, when the sun 
was 7° short of Virgo, mentioned by Varaha Mihira, but does not tell us the 
time to which it refers — Notices other risings, but without reference to time — 
Mistaken with respect to the time of rising of Canopus in the time of Para- 
sara — A passage from Garga explained — Three periods of Canopus’s heliacal 
rising — The 8th,and 15th of Aswina, and 8th of Kartika, mistranslated by 
| Mr. Colebrooke — The true meaning given — The time to which they refer ex- 
plained in a note. 


Havine in the foregoing sections given a sufficient 
outline of the nature of the modern astronomical 
systems of the Hindus, and exposed the various 
practices employed for imposing on the world the 
pretended antiquity of their books and writers, I 
should now most willingly wish to drop my pen, 
particularly as I believe I have omitted nothing that 
could in any way be conducive to the perfect un- 
derstanding of the subject. It appears, however, 
that there is something more yet to be done, how- 
ever unpleasant the task may be; and that is, to 
come forward in my own defence. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 197 


There are two points on which Mr. Colebrooke 
seems to have laid great stress, in his endeavours to 
support the antiquity of the Surya Siddhkanta and 
Varaba Mihira against the result of my calculations ; 
which two points, though already noticed, we shall 
here endeavour to show are totally inapplicable, and 
therefore mere delusions, without the slightest 
foundation. 

One of the points relates to the longitudes of the 
stars, reckoned from the beginning of the Hindu 
sphere, commencing with the Lunar Asterism Aswint, 
as contained in the tables of the Lunar Mansions in 
different books. These longitudes, from the very 
nature of the subject, must in every case be the 
same, or nearly the same, whether given by an 
astronomer who lived a thousand years ago, or by 
one who lived only fifty years ago: from the point 
from which the longitudes are reckoned being fixed 
to the commencement of the Hindu sphere when the 
precession was nothing, the longitudes of the stars 
reckoned from that point, must of necessity be al- 
ways the same, though given at different ages by 
different astronomers, except so far as one may be 
more or less accurate in his computation than 
another, which, however, can never point out the 
difference of time. Thus, some Hindu astronomer 
about the year A.D. 538, observed the longitude of 
Cor Leonis, from the beginning of Aswini, in the 
commencement of the Hindu sphere, to be 4° 9°; 
aad another, about the middle of last century, 
made it also 4° 9°. Now I should be glad to know 
how this is to point out the difference of time 
between the two astronomers, or when they re- 
spectively lived. I say it is impossible; but even 
supposing the latter astronomer had made it 4° 8°, or 


Digitized by Google 


198 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


4° 10°, the difference, in that case, could only arise 
from a greater or less degree of accuracy in the ob- 
servation made, and had nothing whatever to do 
with time. Hence it most clearly follows, that the 
longitudes of the stars, reckoned from the com- 
mencement of the Hindu sphere, can never point 
out the time when any astronomer lived, or any 
book in which they are given was written or com- 
posed. But, notwithstanding the clearness of this 
.fact, and the soundness of the foundation on which 
it stands, Mr. Colebrooke has endeavoured to prove 
‘the antiquity of the Surya Siddhanta from the longi- 
tudes of the stars given-in that work, reckoning 
from the commencement of the Hindu sphere. In 
the Brahma Siddhanta, the longitude of the star Cor 
Leonis is reckoned at 4* 9° from the commencement 
of. the Hindu sphere: in the Surya Siddhanta it is 
also 4° 9°: in the Varahi Sanhita it is 4° 9°: in the 
Siddhanta Siromani it is 4° 9°: in the Siddhanta Sar- 
vabhauma, a still more modern book, it is also 4° 9°: 
and in the Grahu Laghava, another modern work, 
it is also 4° 9°: all exhibiting the same longitude, 
though composed or written at different dates, and 
by different persons. The reason of this must be 
obvious. A certain point is fixed on by all the 
Hindu astronomers, from which they compute the 
precession of the equinoxes : at that point they also 
give the positions of the stars in the Lunar Asterisms, | 
or what they suppose they were at that time; and 
this. makes all Hindu writers, let their respective 
times be what it may, agree nearly with each other; 
for the positions so given, have no reference what- 
ever to the age or time of the writer or his book, but 
‘merely to the common epoch to-.which they all 
refer; that is to say, the point of time when there 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 199 


was no precession, and the beginning of Aswini was 
cut by the equinoctial colure.. Therefore tables com-. - 
puted for this point, for the sake of uniformity and 
convenience, are found in books of various dates, or 
no dates expressed, without having the slightest re- 
ference to the time of any of them. Hence I say 
that the whole of Mr. Colebrooke’s notions on this 
point are altogether unfounded. Saye 
Indeed the facts against such ideas are incon- 
testible. The observation made by Vasisht’ha on . 
the star Canopus, who found it in 3*, or the begin- 
ning of Cancer, which is the same as given in the 
Surya Siddhanta, would fully prove this; but the - 
positions of the planets given by that work, prove 
that it was even of a much later date than the ob- . 
servation on Canopus by Vasishtha. Mr. Cole- | 
brooke, however, is not disposed to admit the cor- 
rectness of this mode of determining the antiquity . 
of astronomical books by the positions of the planets, 
except where it suits his purpose. He saw it was 
sufficiently correct in the case of the Brahma Sid- 
dhanta; but he would not admit it to be so with . 
respect to the Surya Siddhanta: and why? Because - 
Varaha Mihira, whom he imagined had lived thirteen . 
or fourteen hundred years ago, had mentioned the 
Surya. Siddhanta: therefore he was determined ‘to - 
adopt a new mode (by the longitudes of the fixed. - 
stars from the beginning of Aswini), for determining 
the age of the Surya Siddhanta, which mode, if 
exact, ought to determine the ages of all other books 
also; but the truth is, it neither gives the age.of the 
Surya Siddhanta, nor of any other work whatever, as 
may be easily seen from the explanation above given. | 
But to put this in a still stronger light, suppose we . 
designate the books above mentioned by the letters - 


Digitized by Google 


200 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


of the alphabet, and call them a, 4, c, d, and ¢, 
stating that they were of different ages, and that 
each of them made the longitude of Cor Leonis from 
the beginning of the Hindu sphere 4° 9°, and then 
ask Mr. Colebrooke, or any other person, which was 
the oldest: it is clear that he could not tell. He 
would perhaps say, let me know the name of the 
book, and I will then tell you. But there is no 
magic in the name of the book; and if the method 
could not determine the question, without knowing 
the name of the book, it is no method whatever; it 
is a downright delusion. Mr. Colebrooke might 
perhaps say, that as they gave the. same longitude, 
they might have been borrowed from each other, the 
more modern from the older; but this is not the 
case, and even if it was so, it would not be solving 
the question; for the Surya Siddhanta. would then 
stand in the same predicament, as the author of it 
might also have borrowed, and therefore its real time 
would still be totally unknown. But we do not de- 
termine the antiquity of books by the most ancient 
facts or expressions they may contain, but by the 
most modern. The longitude of Canopus, as given 
by Vasishtha, in the beginning of Cancer, is also in 
the Surya Siddhanta ; and this is more modern than 
the epoch of the commencement of the modern 
astronomy, to which all the tables of the Lunar 
Asterisms refer, whether they be found in a book 
written last year, or a thousand years ago: and the 
positions of the planets given by the Surya Siddkanta, 
show that it is still more modern than even the ob- 
seryation of Vasisht‘ha. And to crown all this, the 
very individual on whose account the age of the 
Surya Siddhanta was to be perverted and twisted 
about, turas out to have been contemporary with 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 201 


the emperor Akber. Had the Hindu astronomers 
given us the longitudes of the stars from the vernal 
equinoctial point, at the times they respectively 
wrote, we should from thence be able to determine 
the times in which they lived; but this they took 
particular care not to do, knowing well what would 
be the consequence: on the contrary, they reduce 
the longitudes reckoned from the vernal equinoctial 
point, whatever they may find them, to what they 
would appear to be from the beginning of the Hindu 
sphere, or Aswini, at the general epoch, when the 
vernal equinox was supposed to coincide with it, 
which being a fixed point, the longitudes must be 
the same, or nearly so, by all; and by that means 
puts it out of the power of the most acute astronomer 
that ever was, to determine the times when they 
wrote, or the ages of the books in which they weré 
given; which shows the complete fallacy of Mr. Cole- 
brooke’s method, if it can be so called. _ 

We shall now proceed to Mr. Colebrooke’s other 
point, on which he seems to have laid so much 
stress, in supporting the supposed antiquity of 
Varaha Mihira, &c. 

Varaha Mihira states, that one solstice is in the 
beginning of Cancer, and the other in that of Capri- 
corn. Hence Mr. Colebrooke says, that he must 
have lived about thirteen hundred years ago, be- 
cause he has assumed that the names Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini, Cancer, &c. belong to the signs of the Hindu . 
sideral sphere, beginning from Aswin?, and therefore 
concludes, that the solstitial points were not in the 
beginning of Cancer and Capricorn for these last 
thirteen hundred years. But in so dog, Mr. Cole- 
brooke has drawn a most incorrect conclusion; for 
the real matter of fact is, that the names Aries, 

DD 


Digitized by Google 


202 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


Taurus, &c. as repeatedly stated, belong to the 
signs of the tropical sphere, beginning from the 
vernal equinoctial point, and not in any manner what- 
ever to the signs of the Hindu sideral sphere, which 
we shall now proceed to prove beyond dispute. 

I have already mentioned, that the tropical sphere 
was received by the Hindus from the west, I believe 
about the second or third century of the Christian 
era, with the names of the signs, the same as they 
are still in use in Europe: that on introducing the 
sideral sphere now in use in A.D. 538, the tropical 
sphere was still retained for certain purposes; and 
in order that no confusion should arise, the names 
Aries, Taurus, &c. were retained for the signs, com- 
mencing from the vernal equinoctial point, while 
those of the sideral sphere, commencing from As- 
wint, were represented numerically only, by which 
means all confusion was avoided. Now I will show 
that the same rule is still followed by. the modern 
Hindus; and for which purpose I beg leave to in- 
troduce the following table of the sun’s right ascen- 
‘sion and declination, as now in use, for the end of 
every sign, reckoning from the beginning of Mesha 
(Aries), or the vernal equinoctial point. 


PERPETUAL TABLE OF THE SUN’S RIGHT ASCENSION AND 
DECLINATION. 


. Sun’s right ascension | Difference of 
Names of the signs, at the end of each sign,|right ascension,| Declination. 


11° 43’N. 


Makara, .... ‘ . 
Kumbha, ecceee Aquarius, 
Mina, Pisces, 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 203 


In the first column we have the names of the 
signs in Sanscrit, with the same translated. The 
second and third columns contain the sun’s right 
ascension to the end of every sign. The fourth 
column contains the differences between the right 
ascensions in the second column; and the fifth 
eontains the sun’s declination at the end of each: 
sign, corresponding to the right ascension, Those 
who may not have it in their power to consult Hindu 
books or tables, may refer to Mr. S. Davies’s papers ° 
in the second volume of the Asiatic Researches, 
pages 271 and 272, where they will find the names - 
of the signs, the sun’s right ascension, corresponding’ 
to the end of each sign, separately taken, which 
corresponds with the fourth column above, and the: 
sun’s declination for the same points. All these, 
and a great deal more, will be found in a modern 
Hindu work, called the Tables of MJakaranda, to 
which Mr. Davies refers. 

By reference to the table, it will appear that the: 
sun’s right ascension at the end of Mithuna (Gemini), 
according to the Hindus, is always 5400’ or 90°, and 
that the declination of the sun in the same point is 
24° N. that the sun's right ascension at the end of 
. Dhanus (Sagittarius), is 16200’ or 270°, and declina- 
tion 24°S. Now as the table is perpetual, it follows. 
that the signs named, are not those of the Hindu 
sphere beginning with Aswini, but those of the tro- 
pical sphere, beginning from the mean vernal equi- 
noctial point: ——the Hindu astronomers, by thus: 
inserting the names of the signs in their tables, pre- 
vent any possibility of mistake. Brahma Gupta 
says, that ‘‘ the very shortest hours of night occur 
at the end of Mithuna (Gemini), and the seasons 
are governed. by the sun’s motion. Therefore the 


Digitized by Google 


204 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


pair of solstices appear to be stationary by the 
evidence of a pair of eyes.” And is not this the 
case by the above table, which is now in use? Are 
not the solstitial points always in the beginning of 
Cancer and Capricorn? Brahma Gupta did not 
refer to the Hindu sphere, for the names of the 
signs do not belong to it; and therefore his own 
simple expression ought to have been sufficient to 
point out what he meant, without perverting it to 
another purpose; nor is it possible that any real 
astronomer could misunderstand him. 

Varaha Mihira is equally explicit, and his meaning 
clear and unequivocal. He says: “ At present one 
solstice is in the beginning of Karkata (Cancer), 
and the other in that of Makara” (Capricorn); and 
he again says: ‘‘ The sun, by turning without 
having reached Makara (Capricorn), destroys. the 
south.and the east; by turning back without having 
reached Karkata (Cancer), the north and east. By 
turning when he has just passed the summer solstitial 
point, he makes wealth secure, and grain abundant, 
since he moves thus according to nature; but the 
sun, by moving unnaturally, excites terror.” By 
this passage of Varaha Mihira, the solstices were 
always in the beginning of Cancer and Capricorn. 
Are they not so now? and are they not so by the 
table above given now in use? Where is, then, the 
foundation of the inference drawn from thence by 
Mr. Colebrooke, that he lived thirteen or fourteen 
hundred years ago? The foundation does not exist 
in truth, and the whole error arises from Mr. Cole- 
brooke assuming that the signs named belonged: to 
the sideral sphere; but this could not be, from the 
nature of the expression used, which referred to the 
tropical sphere only, and could not be mistaken. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 205 


I will now adduce another proof from the Zatwa- 
chintamani, a modern work by Lakshmidas, who 
gives examples for calculating the sun’s right ascen- 
sions, declinations, &c. in all of which he takes care 
to distinguish the tropical from the sideral sphere. 
In one of the examples he states the sun’s mean 
longitude in the Hindu sideral sphere, that is, from 
the beginning of Aswini, at . pwd é 
He then adds the precession or dif- 
' ference of the spheres, , 0 16 10 59 


The sum he calls Aina (Pisces), 18 20 5 
Can any thing be more clear and decisive than 
this example, to show that the names of the signs 
are reserved alone for the tropical sphere? The 
sun’s longitude in the Hindu sphere is simply ex- 
pressed by figures, without the name of any sign 
being mentioned; whereas, in the tropical sphere it 
is particularly marked with the name of the sign, 
the degrees, minutes, and seconds, being put down 
in figures. To say that the sun’s mean longitude at 
one and the same moment of time was 11* 2° 9’ 6" 
and 11° 18° 20’ 5" would appear inconsistent; and 
to say that it was in Pisces 2° 9' 6" and Pisces 18° 
20’ 5" at the same time, would be equally so: there 
was, therefore, no better way of distinguishing the 
spheres than by affixing the name of the sign to that 
to which it properly and originally belonged. The 
sun’s longitude being thus expressed, serves as the 
foundation for computing the night ascension and 
declination for that point, as also the time of sun 
rising and setting, length of the day and night, with 
other particulars that may be required, all depending 
on thé tropical sphere. 
_ I shall give one example more from another. 


Digitized by Google 


206 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


modern writer, under the name of Bhattotpala, 
whom I have already mentioned, and who appears 
to have lived in the last century, but thrown back, 
by the imposition of Dr. Hunter’s pundit while at 
Gjein, and no other authority, to the year A.D. 968. 
The passage relates to the method of determining 
the times of the solstices, and is thus : — ‘‘ The ob- 
servations of the solstices, or sun’s motion between 
the solstices, is to be made at sunrise by the inter- 
section ofa distant mark ; for the sun having reached 
the beginning of Capricorn, moves daily towards the 
north, and being arrived at the beginning of Cancer, 
moves daily towards the south. Therefore, marking 
the sun’s place at sunrise or sunset by some distant 
object, as a tree, &c. examine the sun’s place again 
next day, to ascertain whether the sun’s motion or 
declination has stopped or not; and the observa- 
tions may be continued for seven days after the 
sun’s arrival at the beginning of the sign, by com- 
putation, to determine whether the computed true 
place agree, precede or recede. Or in a large arch 
having delineated on smooth ground a circle marked 
relatively to the quarters, erect in its centre a 
gnomon, then at the equinox at sunrise and sunset 
the shadow falls on the lines east and west. As 
long as the sun advances towards the end of Gemini, 
the shade at sunrise continues to move south of the 
line east and west, and the same at sunset: it then 
moves south until it reach the end of Virgo, and the 
beginning of Libra the shadow falls on the line east 
and west. From that time the shadow advances 
daily north till it reaches Capricorn, and then re- 
cedes daily south to the end of Pisces.” 

This passage is as clear as possibly can be, in 
showing that the signs named belong to the tropical 


. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS.: 207 


sphere, and not to the Hindu. Indeed there is not 
an instance that I know where the names of the 
signs, as Aries, Taurus, &c. have been applied to the 
signs of the Hindu sphere: if such, however, has 
occurred, it must arise either from inadvertence, 
ignorance, or for the purpose of imposition, as in 
the interlopation mentioned in the last section, 
(p. 191), where the commentator is made to say, 
that the greatest decrease and increase of night and 
day do not appear mow, when the sun’s place is at 
the end of Mithuna (Gemini), because the interpo- 
lator would wish to support the ideas that the names 
of the signs belong to the Hindu sphere; but which, 
by the facts we have shown above, is completely 
refuted: and therefore Mr. Colebrooke’s. other strong 
point, founded on the assumption that the names of 
the signs are those of the Hindu sphere, beginning 
from Aswini, completely falls to the ground, as 
totally contrary to the Hindu astronomy and to 
facts. 

Indeed Mr. Colebrooke had ample means of cor- 
recting his ideas, if it was his wish so to do; for in 
fact the above passage from Bhattotpala‘is an actual 
translation by Mr. Colebrooke, and written in his 
own hand on the margin of the original, which was 
borrowed for me, and from which I copied it. Will 
it not, therefore, appear very singular that he should 
bring forward such an interpolation to support his 
opinion, while at the same time he kept back this 
passage in Bhattotpala, which he himselftranslated ? 
But this is not all: he has a copy of the Tatwa- 
chintamani, made from the one in my possession, 
from which the example of the sun’s longitude above 
given was taken. He might also have seen the tables 
of the sun's right ascensions, declinations, &c. for 


Digitized by Google 


208 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


each sign in different Hindu books of astronomy; 
and must have seen the table given by Mr. Davies 
already alluded to. No excuse can, therefore, exist 
in holding an opinion so entirely contrary to facts 
and to the Hindu astronomy, which carefully assigns, 
in every instance, the names Aries, Taurus, &c. to the 
signs of the tropical sphere only. 

Mr. Colebrooke takes notice of the sun’s longitude 
being within 7° of Virgo at the time of the heliacal 
rising of Canopus at Ujein, according: to the testi< 
mony of Varaha Mihira*, which, had he determined 
the time to which it corresponded, he would not 
only have seen that Varaha Mihira was a modern, 
but that his works, interpolations, and assertions on 
which he so much relied, were mere impositions, of 
very modern date. The trick was first played off 
on the emperor Akber, and ever since continued and 
supported by all the ingenuity that Brahminical 
cunning and imposition could suggest or invent. 
Mr. Colebrooke notices the rules given in the Bhas- 
vati and the Grahalaghava for the rising of Canopust ; 
but he does not tell us to what time or times they 
refer; but, what is still more singular, he seems to 
understand them as rules for the visible rising of 
Canopus. { Now, according to my own ideas of 
astronomy, this is impossible, because the sun’s 
longitudes, by the rules, come out less than in the 
time of Varaha Mihira; whereas they should have 
been greater, in proportion to the times posterior to 
him. The rules, in fact, give the cosmical risings of 
Canopus, and not the heliacal, as is evident also 
from the authors themselves, who only state, that 


* As, Res, Vol. IX. p.855 and 356. t As, Res. Vol. IX. p. 356, 
t As, Res. Vol. IX. p. 357. 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 209: 


whien the sun is in the longitude given by the rule, 
then the star Canopus rises with the sun, and not a 
syllable about its being visible: but even if they had 
said so, it would be of no use, as it would appear 
from the statement of Varaha Mihira, which must 
be our guide, to be an imposition. 
Mr. Colebrooke also notices the heliacal rising of 
Canopus in the time of Parasara.* This was when 
the sun’s longitude was in the beginning of the 
Lunar Asterism Hasta, and at the same period it set 
heliacally when the sun was in the beginning of 
Rohini ; from which Mr. Colebrooke concludes, that 
“ the right ascension of Canopus must have been in 
his time not less than 100°, reckoned from the be- 
ginning of MZesha (Aries), and the star rising cosmi- 
cally, became visible in the oblique sphere at the 
distance of 60° from the sun, and disappeared, set~ 
ting achronically when within that distance.” 
Mr. Colebrooke has here evidently misapplied the 
name of the sign JMesha (Aries), as he has done in 
“many other instances; for it is not the name of the 
first sign of the Hindu sideral sphere, but the first 
reckoned from the vernal equinoctial point, as has 
been fully proved. 
_ In the fifth section of the first part, I have chown 
the real time of Paradsara to. have been-575 B.C., in 
which year Canopus rose heliacally, when the sun 
was in the beginning of the Lunar Asterism Hasta, 
and at the same time distant from the vernal equinox 
4° 25° 10’ 5” in the latitude of Delhi. In that year the 
right ascension of Canopus from the vernal equinoc- 
tial point, was found to be 81° 43’ 25”, and its longi- 
tude 2' 8° 47’. The vernal equinoctial point was 


*As . Res. Vol. IX. p. 357. . 
EE. 


Digitized by Google 


210 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


then about 14° 50‘ to the east of the beginning of the 
fixed Aswini. 

Mr. Colebrooke does not say what method he 
adopted, or the data he employed in his calculation; 
but it ‘would appear from what he says, that he 
assumed the colure to have been in the middle of 
‘Aslesha in the time of Parasara. If Mr. Colebrooke 
meant by this, the middle of the fixed Lunar Aste- 
rism Aslesha@, which I suppose he did, it is incorrect; 
for Parasara was contemporary with Yudhisht’hira 
and Garga, and the latter wrote his Sanhita in the 
year 548 B.C. therefore the colure could not then 
be in the point assumed, nor at any later period 
than the year 1192 B.C. which was even 247 years 
before the time of Rama. But if Mr. Colebrooke 
meant the tropical or anastral Aslesha, the assump- 
tion would be correct; for the ancients had two 
spheres, the one fixed, the other moveable ; that is, 
the sideral and tropical; the same in fact, as the 
moderns still employ, and for the like purposes, 
though differently divided. The moderns have their 
fixed constellations and moveable signs: the latter 
are always reckoned from the vernal’ equinoctial 
point, or the intersection of the equator and ecliptic. 
The ancients had in like manner their fixed and 
moveable Lunar Mansions, which were called by the 
same names, and the latter always began from the 
winter solstice: hence one of the solstitial points 
was always in the beginning of the moveable Lunar 
Mansion Sravistha, and the other in the middle of 
the moveable Aslesha. So that Garga is right 
when he says: “ When the sum returns, not having 
reached Dhanisht'ha (i.e. Sravishtha), in the northern 
solstice, or not having reached the middle of Aslesha 
in the southern, then let a man feel great apprehen- 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. 2tl 


sion of danger.”* And Parasara says: “ When — 
having reached the end of Sravana in the northern 
path, or half of Asiesha in the southern, he still ad- 
vances, it is a cause of great fear.”* Thus in fact 
expressing the same thing that Varaha Mihira had 
done, i in respect of the solstitial points being always 
in the beginning of Cancer and Capricorn, from 
which the expressions are of equal import in either 
case: but instead of collecting or conceiving the 
natural and true meaning of the Hindu writers, it 
was supposed that they were ignorant of the pre- 
cession of the equinoxes, than which nothing could 
be more incorrect; for the precession was not only 
known to Varaha Mihira, but also to Garga and Pa- 
rasara, and was even known long before their times. 
If such unaccountable mistakes could have been 
made in respect of the tropical signs, or those begin- 
ning from the vernal equinox, which I proved above 
to be the fact, can we wonder at similar ones being 
made in respect of the moveable Lunar Mansions, 
which always begin from the winter solstice, and 
have the same names as the fixed, but recede or fall 
back by reason of the precession ? 

. Mr. Colebrooke also states, that Bhattotpala cites 
from the Pancha Siddhantica a rule of computation 
analogous to that which is given in the Bhasvati ; 
and remarks, that three periods of Canopus’ heliacal 
rising are observed, viz. the 8th and 15th of Aswina, 
and 8th of Cartica.t 

The rule here alluded to, as cited from the 
Pancha Siddhantica, 1 have already given in the last 
section, which shows most clearly that it is a forgery 


* As, Res. Vol. V. p- 397. t As. Res, Vol. IX. p. 356. 


Digitized by Google 


212 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY 


of the last century only, and to which period its rule 
refers. 

With respect to the shred periods noticed, viz. the 
‘8th and 15th of Aswina and 8th of Cartica, there is a 
mistake in the translation of the words, the original 
being Astami and Panchadasi. These names of the 
days, as is well known to all the Hindus, invariably 
refer to the moon’s age, and never to the day of the 
‘month: therefore the passage should have. been 
translated, “the 8th and 15th lunar day of Aswina, 

and 8th of the moon of Cartica.” The former reading 
is totally irreconcilable to facts; but the latter is 
easily understood by every person that has a suffi- 
-cient knowledge of the Hindu astronomy.* 


* # The Hindus, as I have already observed, employ two spheres, the sideral and 
tropical ; and to the signs in both they have corresponding months, which bear the 
same name: the moment the sun enters a sign, that instant the month also begins ; 
so that by knowing the name of the month, we also know the sign. The signs 
which here are desiguated by Aswina and Cartica,-are Virgo and Libra in the tro- 
pical sphere, because the heliacal risings of Canopus are reckoned according to that 
‘sphere. The moon is named after two different, and I may say directly opposite 
methods : in one it is named from the month or sign in which the new moon begins ; 
in the other from the month or sign in which it terminates : the Jast is the method 
here meant. Thus, if there is a new moon in Aswina or Virgo, and the end falls in 
Libra (Cartica), it is called ‘the moon of Cartica; and in like manner, when the 
moon ends in Virgo, it is called the moon of Virgo, or Aswina. Now to apply all 
this to the solution of the problem, it will be seen that the 8th day of the moon of 
Virgo can never fall later than about the 8th or Sth degree of Virgo, which is there- 
fore one limit. On the other hand, it may be seen that the 8th day of the moon-of 
Libra can never begin earlier than the beginning of Virgo, because its end mast ter- 
minate in Libra: therefore the 8th day of the moon, in this case, falls also on the 
-same point, viz. on the 8th or 9th degree of-Virgo, which determines that.Canopus 
rose heliacally in some part of India when the sun was between the 8th or 9th 
degree of Virgo. To ascertain the place this could happen at, take a celestial globe, 
bring Canopus to the eastern ‘horizon, then elevate the globe until it is found that 
the 8th or 9th degree of Virgo is 10 degrees below the horizon, while at the same 
time Canopus is.jast on it, then the degrees of elevation of the pole will show the 
latitude, which will be found to be that of Delhi, and that the time to which it refers 
is the last century ; which isa farther confirmation that Bhattotpala is a modern, 
and the Pancha Siddhantica a forgery. The 15th day of the moon of Aswina (Virgo) 
would of cgurse fall, in some years, on the 8th or 9th day of the month of Aswixa; 


Digitized by Google 


OF THE HINDUS. ‘2138 


Thus I have shown that ‘Mr. Colebrooke -had. the 
same means and facts before him that I‘had, for in- 
vestigating the: truth or falsehood of those passages 
and assertions that are intended to threw back into 
antiquity the time of Varaha Mihira and others: on 
this, however, I shall offer no comment, but leave it 
to others. All that I can say is, that I have strictly 
done my duty, notwithstanding all the difficulties I 
-have had to encounter, and the opposition thrown in 
‘my way. My sole object has been the investigation 
of truth; and little I expected at setting out, that I 
Should find nothing but inveterate enmity as the 
reward of my labours — but so it is. It is by the 
investigation of truth, and the exposure of Brahmi- 
nical impositions, which can only be done through 
the means of astronomy, that the labours of those 
who are laudably endeavouring to introduce true 
religion and morality among the Hindus can have 
their true and beneficial effect. So long as the 
impositions and falsehoods contained in the Hindu 
books, which the common people are made to be- 
lieve are the productions of their ancient sages, are 
suffered to remain unexposed, little progress can be 
expected to be made: but let the veil be undrawn, 
uncover the impositions by true and rational inves- 
tigation, and the cloud of error will of itself disap- 
pear; and then they will be not only more ready, 
but willing to adopt and receive the word of truth. 
The time, however, is now come that I must relin- 
quish these pursuits. Ill health for some years past, 
with an enfeebled constitution, from a long residence 


so that the three periods, so called, are not very distant ones. The method of 
calling the moon by the name of the month in which it ends is very ancient, though 
at present little used. In Bengal, and many other parts of India, the moon is 
named from the month in which it begins. 


Digitized by Google 


214 THE MODERN ASTRONOMY, &c. 


in a warm climate, having been between forty and 
fifty years in India, obliges me to lay down my pen, 
and to desist from all further investigations: indeed 
it has been with a great deal of difficulty that I have 
brought this essay to a close, in the state it isin. If 
my health had permitted, it might have been made 
more perfect and full; but on this account I have 
been obliged to curtail it, and leave out many things 
that might be useful. . However, though thus nar- 
rowed, I believe the astronomer and man of science 
will still find all that-he may require, or that is ab- 
solutely necessary, for forming a just idea of the 
Hindu astronomy, and its antiquity. 


Digitized by Google 


THE APPENDIX, 


CONTAINING 
I.— Hindu Tables of Equations, §c. for calculating the true Heliocentric and 
Geocentric Places of the Planets, &c. 


II.— Remarks on the Chinese Astronomy, proving, from their Lunar Mansions, 
that the Science is much more modern among them than is generally believed. 
The names of their Constellations are added, with the Stars in each. 


III.— Translations of certain Hieroglyphics, which hitherto have been called 
(though erroneously) the Zodiacs of Dendera in Egypt. 


Digitized by Google 


No I. 


HINDU TABLES OF EQUATIONS, &c. 
FOR CALCULATING 
THE TRUE PLACES OF THE SUN AND MOON; 


ALSO THE 


HELIOCENTRIC AND GEOCENTRIC PLACES OF THE PLANETS. 


Digitized by Google 


HAVING been requested by some friends to add to my work the Tables of 
Equations, &c. used by the Hindus in computing the true places of the sun and 
moon, and the heliocentric and geocentric longitudes of the planets, I feel a 
pleasure in complying with the request, by the tnsertion of the accompanying 
Tables, which I believe have never before been published, those of the sun and 
moon excepted. For the better understanding the tables, I have added examples 
under each, so that nothing more need be said here by way of explanation. 


Digitized by Google 


N 


APPENDIX. - 219 


SUN. 


EQUATION OF THE ORBIT. 


Argument. Sun’s mean anomaly. 


—] 


30 
34 
35 
34 
34 
30 
23 
14 


1 
I 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
tr 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
I 
t 
Ir 
1 
1 
1 
i 
1 
1 
i 
1 
1 
1 
1 
t 


Use of the Table. 


Supp. sqn’s mean long. is L1* 2° 
Subtract the apogee .... 2 17 
Sun’s mean anomaly .... 8 14 
The equation for which is + 2 
Sun’s mean longitude .. 11 -2 
Sun’s true longitade.... 11 41 


MOON. 


FQUATION OF THE ORBIT. 


$2 94°29’ 29” 
86 425 26 
4l 36 
45 59 
49 19 
54 37 
58 a7 
2 54 
7 54 
oe 50 
15 40 
19 24 
23 


= 
© 
a 


5 
38 


SSSSS2SSEERSSEEE8 


AMAKUNAaUrkh hr ee aL ELLE LL Ld we bh Dw 


| Se HPORAaAnwe 


Degrees. 


Use of the Table. 


Supp. moon’s mean long. =11* 8°56’ 17” 
The moon's apogee .... 32 988 0 
Moon’s mean anomaly... 8 29 18 17 
The equation for which is + 5 2 45 
Moon’s mean longitude I1 8 66 17 
Moon’s true longitude .. 11 13 59 2 


Digitized by Google 


220 APPENDIX. 


MERCURY. 


THE ELONGATION. 


Arg. Mercury's long.—Sun’s equated long, 


EQUATION OF THE SUN’S LONGITUDE. 
Arg. Sun’s mean long.— Aphelion of Mer. 


y 


Degrees, 
Degrees. 


Degrees, 


16 [494 | 914 
32 |508 | 926 
48 (522 | 988 
64 |586 | 950 


1256 
142 |612 |1010 |1260 
162 |628 |1020 |1266 
178 |642 |1032 |1270 


CBONAARhwWNH=S 
DANA TAWNW = S 
& 
wv 
a 
i 


Use of the Table. 


Suppose sun’s long..... 115 2° 9/ 16” 
Mercury’s aphelion subt. 7 14 54 40 
Remain......eseseeee 3 17 14 26 
The equation for which is — 4 17 45 
Subt. from sun’s long. = 11 2 9 6 
Remain sun’s equat. long. 10 27 51 21 


Note. The true heliocentric longitude 
Mercury is not used by the Hindu astronomers.| 


Use of the Table. 


Suppose Mercury’s long. 5*20°51’ 15 
Subt. sun’s equated long. 10 27 51 3% 
Remains the commutation 6 22 59 54 
The elong. for which is.. — 1216 0 
Sun’s equated long. .... 10 27 51 21 
Geocentric long. of Merc. 10 15 35 21 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 221 


VENUS. 


EQUATION OF THE SUN’S LONGITUDE. THE ELONGATION. 
Arg. Swun’s mean long—Verus's Aphelion.|| Arg. Venus’s long,—Sun’s equated long, 


754 1484215 

778 |1506 :2172 | 
802 1532 2194 ; 
828 |1554 |2214 
852 11576 |2222 
| 876 |1600 '2252 
900 |1624 |2270 
928 |1646 '2290 
954 |1670 |2310 
976 1692 2330 
1000 |1714 [2350 
1026 |1738 |2368 : 
1050 |1760 '2384 

1074 '1784 |2402 
1098 |1804 '2422 
1124 |1824 |2440 
1148 |1848 '2456 
1172 |1872 |2474 
1196 '1892 '2490 
1220 |1916 |2510 
1244 1938 2524 | 
1268 |1962 !2540 ' 
1292 {1952 2556 
1316 '2004 '2570 
1840 '2024 [2586 |2750| 922 
1364 '2044 |2602 '2740| 778 
1888 (2068 '2616 |2726| 630 
1406 |2088 |2628 |2702| 480 
1436 |2110 |2642 |2694} 320 
1460 |2120 2654 |2676| 160 
1484 '2152 |2666 |2656| 0 


SCmNHWRAANDS 


ge 


Degrees. 


Use of the Table. Use of the Table. 


Suppose sun’s long. .... 115 2° 9’ 6 || Suppose Venus’s long... 0* 16°30’ 11” 
 Venus’s aphelion subtract 2 21 17 10 |) Subtract Sun’s equat.long.11 3 49 6 
Remain ......+++s++e+ 8 10 53 56 || Remains the commotation 112 41 5 
The equation for which is — 1 40 0 || Theelongation for whichis — 17 $9 84 
Sun’s longitude........ 11 2 9 6! San’s equatedlongitude.. 11 349 6 
“| Sun’s equated longitade 11 3 49 6 || Venas’s geocentric long. 11 21 28 40 


Note. The true heliocentric longitude of Venus! 
is not used. . { 


Digitized by Google 


222 APPENDIX. 


MARS. 


- BQUATION OF THE ORBIT. SEMIPARALLAX OF THE ORB. 
Arg. Mars’s mean long — the Aphelion. || Arg. Sun's longitude— Mars’s longitude. 


s 

° 

b& 

a 

A 

— — _————— SSS | Tee EY AGES areas pers me 
0 689’ 352’ '687’ | 984’ 11186’ 11006 
1 690 ; 363 
2 691: 375 
3 691 387 
4 692 398 
6 692 410 
6 692 42% 
7 692 : 432 
8| 86 692 

9/100 691 

JOU 690 

41/122 690 

12 689 

13 687 

14) 685 

15 49 | 683 

16 680 

17 679 

18 676 

19! 673 

20 670 

Py 667 

22 664 

23, 661 

24 657 

25) 652 

26'280 648 

27 644 

28 639 

29 3 634 

30 


h 629 


se 


Use of the Table. 


| Use of the Table. . 
Suppose Mars’s mean long. 2* 7°35’ ie mean longitude .. 11° 2° 9 6” 


The aphelion .......... 4 8 24 57 
Anomaly.....0-se0+++- 9 29 10 21 
The equation for whichis + 9 35 0 
Mars’s mean longitude .. 2 7 35 18 
Mars’s true helioc. long... 2 17 10 18 


Mars’s true long. subt .. 2 17 10 18 
The commutation ...... 8 14 58 48 
The semiparallax .. — 18 23 0 
Its double ........ — 1 646 0 
Mars’s true helioc. long. 2 17 10 18 
Mars’s geocentric long... 1 10 24 18 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 223 


JUPITER. 


EQUATION OF THE ORBIT. 
Arg. Jupiter’s mean long — the Aphelion. 


SEMIPARALLAX OF THE ORB. 


Degrees. 
Degrees. 


0’ 4149’ |260"| 305’| 271’ |161’ 30 
.5 (153 (262 | 306 | 269 |156 |29 
10 {158 |265 | 396 | 266 {151 |28 
15 {162 |267 | 306 | 263 147 |27 
167 {270 | 306 | 261 |142 \26 
26 {171 |272 | 305 | 259 }137 |25 
31 |175 |275 | 305 | 256 |132 (24 
38 |179 |277 | 305 | 252 127 |23 
44 {184 |279 | 804 | 249 [123 |22 
48 |188 j281 | 304 | 246 |116 |21 
10) 52 |192 |283 | 303 | 242 {111 |20 
11]. 57 |196 |285 | 303 | 239 |105 [19 
12] 62 |200 |287 | 302 | 235 |100 (18 
13] 67 |203 |289 | 301 | 232 | 94 117 
14) 72 {207 |291 | 300 | 229 | 89 [16 
15] 77 |211 |292 | 209 | 225 | 83 {15 
16} 82 |215 |294 | 298 | 221 | 78 |14 
17) 87 }218 |295 | 207 | 217 | 72 13 
18] 92 |221 |296 | 295 | 213 | 66 j12 
19] 97 |225 |297 | 294 | 209 | GL jl 
20/102 |229 |299 | 992 | 205 | 56 110 
21)107 |232 1300 | 290 | 201 | 50 | 9 
22/112 |236 |301 | 289 | 197 | 44 
23/117 )239 |301 | 287 | 193 | 39 
24121 |242 |302 | 285 | 188 | 34 
25|126 |245 {303 | 283 | 184 | 29 
26131 |248 [304 | 281 | 180 | 24 
27AZS |251 |304 | 279 | 175 | 19 
28/140 )254 |305 | 276 | 170 | 12 
29:144 /257 |305 | 274 | 166 6 
30/149 1260 1305 | 271 | 161 0 


11:} 10:| 9 | g° | 7 | 6s 1s} 10°} 9s | 8° | z* | 6 


OHWANRYHNHOS 
to 
_ 
CHOISARWNYES 
to 
-= 
=y 
a 
x 
2 
wo 
_ 
= 
wo 
—_ 
7) 
_ 
e 


OMY ORAAYHS 


cs) 
‘4 
& 
et pet tf te fot [+ 
al 


Degrees. 
|Degrees. 

I 

l 

| 

l 

{ 

1 


Use of the Table. 


Sun’s longitude........ L1* 2° 9” 
Jupiter’s true longitude... 10 23 21 
The commutation ....., 0 8 48 
The semipar, for whichis + 42 
Its double ........ = + I1 24 
True longitude of Jupiter 10 23 21 
Geoceutric longitude.... 10 24 45 


Use of the Table. 
‘ 


Supp.Jupiter’s mean long. 108 25°47’ 6” 
Subtr. long. of the aphelion 5 22 35 16 
Remains anomaly ...... 5 3 11 50 
The equation for which is — 2 26 0 
Mean longitude of Jupiter 10 25 47 6 
True heliocentric long... 10 23 21 6 


Arg. Sun's longitude — Jupiter’s long. 


Digitized by Google 


224 APPENDIX. 


SATURN. 


EQUATION OF THE ORBIT. SEMIPARALLAX OF THE ORB. 
Arg. Saturn’s mean long—the Aphelion.|| Arg. Sun’s long — Saturn's true long. 


Degrees, 


4* | 5 


407 |238 
408 (231 
“$99 |223 
396 (215 


EESSN ESE 


Use of the Table. 


Supp. Satarn’s meanlong. 1° 4°12’ 56”|| Saturn’s true longitude.. 0° 28°81’ 50” 
Saturn’s aphelion ...... 8 20 54 27 || Subtract from sun’slong. 11 2 9 6 
Mean anomaly .,...... 4 13 18 29 || Commutation..........10 3 47 37 
The equation for which is — 5 27 || The semipar. for which is — 2 29 39 
Saturn’s mean longitude 1 4 56 || Its double is...eseeee. — 4 59 18 
Saturn’s true helioc.long. 0 28 21 29 || Saturn’s true longitude... © 28 21 29 

a5 Saturn’s geocentric long. 0 23 22 LI 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 225 


THE preceding examples exhibit the usual mode of the Hindu 
astronomers in general. There are, however, some who pretend 
to greater accuracy, and go through ten or a dozen operations to 
get the geocentric place of a planet; the method of which I will 
now show from the Zatwa Chintamani of Lakshmi Dasa, a com: 
mentary on the Siddhanta Siromani. 


Let the geocentric longitude of Saturn be required, and his mean 


Hicliocentric place, as in the last example = ......-cee00 1s 4° 12’ 56” 
Place of the aphelion subtract ....cescccscscccccccencs 8 20 54 27 
Remains the mean anomaly 2... .csescccccevcccesacecs 4 13 18 29 
Egnation of the orbit for which is,...ccscecccccccsceeee — 6 47 50 
Satarn’s mean longitade..cecesssceseccccsccccscsescees * bh 4 12 56 
Satarn’s true longitude once equated .......ceceeccecer 0 28 25 6° 
Which taken from the sun’s mean longitade.....seeceeees 11 2 69 6 
Remains the first commutation .......05. sccssecvececs 10 3 44 6 
The parallax of the orb for which is.......eeceeeceecees — 4 58 26 
Which taken from his longitude once equated.......ce0e8 0 28 2 6 
Leaves the geocentric place once equated,....ssseeeceeee @ 23 36 40 


Second Operation. 


From the geocentric place once.equated ....ecesvesccece 0 23 36 40 
Subtract place of his aphelion ........ccecvcecscccsece 8 2Q 54 27 
Remains the second anomaly.........esccccccesscecces 4 2 42 13 
The equation of the orbit for which is ..ccseeeaccsevecse = 6 40 52 
Saturn’s mean longitade.....cscccccssssceeceereereres 1 4 12 56 
Satarn’s heliocentric longitude twice equated ..+...eecece 0 27 82 4 
Which subtract from the sun’s mean longitude..,...e0..0+ 11 2 9 6 
Remains the second commutation ....-secsceecceveneves 10 4 37) 2 
The parallax of the orb for which is....ccseesecseccsees = 4 57 0 
Saturn’s heliocentric longitude twice equated ......0++006 0 27 32 4 
Saturn’s geocentric longitude twice equated.......eeeeeee 0 22 35 4 
Third Operation. 
From Saturn’s geocentric place twice equated ....eeseree 0 22 3 4 
Subtract place of his aphelion .....cccesccsccesscecses 8 20 54 27 
Remains third anomaly ......cccccescccccccversececcs 4 1 40 37 
The equation of the orbit for which is ......sceccecceees — 6 46 57 
Saturn's mean longitude... .sccccscccsssceccccevecens 1 4 12 56 
Satuarn’s heliocentric longitude three times equated ........ 0 27 2 59 
Which subtract from the sun’s longitade sscesssseeserers il 2 9 6 
Remains third commutation .....ccsccececnocessserece 10 4 43 7 
Parallax of the orb for which is......cs-ccecceseescesss — O 4 54 21 
Satura’s longitude thrice equated ......cscececccececnce @ 27 25 59 
Saturn’s geocentric longitude thrice equated.....eeeseeees 0 22 31 38 
Fourth Operation. 

Saturn’s geocentric place thrice equated .......cseecesee 0 22 31 38 

8 20 64 27 


Subtract place of his aphelion ...ccssssscscscocreseece 
GG 


Digitized by Google 


226 APPENDIX. 


Remains fourth anomaly...cccccecsesccecesesccesecees 4* 
The equation of the orbit for which is .....+-eeesesseree = 

Satarn’s mean longitude... ..2.-eeeesesecerccecesecers 1 
Saturn’s heliocentric longitude four times equated ......+- o 
Subtract the same from the sun’s mean longitude ...+-+++ 11 
Remains the fourth commutation ....eccecerececerocees 10 
Parallax of the orb for which is ..sccsescescrcreccsese 

Satarn’s fourth equated longitude .....--eeesereeeeorere 0 
Saturn’s geocentric longitude four times equated ...sseeece 0 


Fifth Operation. 
Saturn’s geocentric longitude four times equated....+++++- 0 
Subtract bis aphelion as Lefore ....eeeeeseeecceeseerees 8 
Remains the fifth anomaly .....seeceeccceecessceeseese 4 
The equation of the orbit for which is Se eeibve ore asian ee eacel =e’ 
Satarn’s mean longitude... .....esscececeeescceccecsoes 1 
Saturn’s heliocentric longitude five times equated....+-.++ 0 


1° 87’ 
6 47 
4 12 
27 «25 
2 9 
4 43 
4 54 
27 23 
22 31 
22 31 
20 54 
1 36 
6 47 
4 12 
27 25 


24 
27 
57 
12 
56 
44 


Which coming out the same as in the fourth operation, the calculation terminates, 
and the geocentric and heliocentric longitudes of Saturn remain as in the fourth 


operation. 


_ The same method also serves for Jupiter; but Mars requires a different one. 


Thus for Mars :— ; 
Suppose the mean longitude of Mars ....++s+ereerereee = 2: 
Place of his aphelion subtract ....ses-eeecerseeserscees 4 
Remains the anomaly .....+sceessrececesseeeeceserocs 9 
Equation of the orbit for which is..+.sesseeceereerevees + 
Its half ccsccscceccecccccerscccccccusescsscscscoes # 
Mean longitude, add ......seeecceccssverecerccssrere 2 
The sum is Mars’ longitude once. equated....eeseeeeeeere 2 
Which taken from the sun’s mean longitude ...+..seeree 11 
‘8 


Remains the first commutation ......ec+eeceeveccescoce 
Semiparallax of the orb for which is......+seecsessseese —- 
Which taken from the longitude once equated.....-+-eeee 2 
Leaves Mars’ geocentric longitude once equated ...++e s+ 1 


Second Operation. 


Mars’ geocentric longitude once equated ....+s+eeeeveres 1 
Subtract his aphelion (corrected once) ....seeeseeeereeee 4 
Anomaly ..cccccscsccccscccccccccccccessscsscsccces «= @ 
Equation of the orbit for which is........... cece eee eeee + 

Mars’ mean longitade.'.....secccceerssesctecsccecrece 2 
Mars’ heliocentric longitude twice equated .....eeseeeeee 2 
Which subtract from the sun’s mean longitude.......eeses I 
Remains second commutation ......scececesessscseree - 8 
Parallax of the orb corresponding. ..sscosssasccesceccee — 1 
Mars’ longitude twice equated. ...4..csccesesenceececes 2 
Mars’ geocentric longitude twice equated........eeeeseee 1 


Third Operation. 


Mars® geocentric longitude twice equated.......eeceseeee 79 1 
Subtract the aphelion (twice corrected) .......sseeeeees 4 
Anomaly .cccccccccrscccesesvsvevccvsveccescseeseee 9 


Digitized by Google 


7° 35’ 
8 24 
29 10 
9 46 
4 53 
7 35 
12 28 
2 9 
19 40 
18 28 
12 .28 
23° «59 
23 «69 
6 43 
17 16 
10 41 
7 35 
18 16 
2 9 
13 52 
8 19 
18 .16 
9 57 
9 57 
5 47 
4 9 


APPENDIX. 227 


The equation for which is .....ccecescecsecccscseneece + * 5° 35’ 187 


Mars’s mean longitude ......scsacecceccecscoscvesens 2 7 35 18° 
Mars’ heliocentric longitude thrice equated .....5.....- ve 2 13 10 36 
Which subtract from the sun’s mean longitude........+0+8 1 62 9 6 
Remains the third commutation,.........csecesecescees 8 18 58 380 
Semiparallax of the orb corresponding ......-.seseeseeee — 0 18 38 34 
Mars’ longitude thrice equated.......seccceseesscssens 2 13 10 86 
Mars’ geocentric longitude thrice equated......ceecceeece 1 24 37° 2 
Fourth Operation, : 
Mars’ geocentric longitude thrice equated......2.se+eee08 1 24 37 2 
Subtract the aphelion (thrice corrected) ......s.seseceee 4 6 36 44 
AUDOMALY 6656.6 e005 es 0sa bn 5e beW ces 6 Ses eeebew sess es 9 18 O 18 
Equation of the orbit for which is.......cccccsseseeecses + 10 39 «8 
Mars’ mean longitude.......ccccceccacccecccesccscces 2 7 35 18 
Mars’ heliocentric longitude four times equated ........+8 2 18 14 26 
Which. subtract from the san’s mean longitude......sseree 11 2 9 6 
Remains fourth commutation.........seccseescecccecee 8 13 54 40 
Parallax of the orb corresponding,.......ee.eeseeeeeeee — L 8 18 29 
Mars’ longitude four times equated .....sseeccccceesncs 2 18 14 26 
Mars’ geocentric longitude four times equated.......5 +00. 1 9 55 57 
Fifth Operation. 
Mars’ geocentric longitude four times equated......eesee 1 9 55 57 
Subtract the aphelion four times corrected .....0000+s0 00 4 1 48 14 
Anomaly coccescccocccscececscvcsscccersccvccencses 9 8 7 48 
Half the equation of the orbit ......csceccscccsesceves + 5 35 19 
Mars’ mean longitude,.....cc.seccccescscesecencosces 2 7 35 18 
Mars’ heliocentric longitude five times equated.......+.00+ 2 13 10 87 


‘Which being the same with that found in the third operation, puts an end to the cal- 
culation, as all the rest comes out the same; therefore the heliocentric longitude of 
Mars is 2* 13° 10’ 37”, and the geocentric longitude 1s 9° 55’ 57". 


To find the Elongation and geocentric Longitude of Mercury. 


Suppose the sun’s place or mean longitude ....-.seeeeee. = 118 2° 9 6” 
Subtract place of Mercary’s aphelion ...eseccssevcesces 7 14 #54 40 


Remains the anomaly. .....cecscccveccccesvacevcesses 3 17 14 36 
The equation for which is .....csccasesevcevesecrsccee — 5 46 59 
Sun’s mean longitude ....cccecccccevsccccccecccevcces rt 2 9 6 


San’s first equated longitude .......-ccccececscccrssece 19 26 22 7 
‘Which taken from the mean longitude of Mercury ........ 5 20 51 15 
Remains first commutation ...ccsscccenccccecesccases 6 24 29 8 
The elongation for which is ..0..scccccccoccccsscesens = 12 50 12 
Sun’s longitude once equated... ...cccecesecccccerecces 10 26 22 7 
Meroury’s geocentric longitude once equated .....e+.0e06 10 13 31 55 


Second Operation. 
Mercury’s geocentric longitude once equated ......++s006 10 13 31 55 


Mercury’s aphelion subtract .csesserssscecvcescecccece 7 4 54 40 
Remains anomaly ......cccccevecescsceerccsevvessse 2 28 37 #15 
The equation for which is .....ssccccecsrecversceteeee om 6 38 16 


Digitized by Google 


228 APPENDIX. 


Sun's mean longitude...sceccecscrcevcvcceccseccecers lle 2° 9 6% 
Sun’s longitude twice equated .....-sseereesrerceeeres 10 26 6 51! 
Which taken from Mercyry’s mean longitude ......+-+e00 5 20 51 15 
Leaves sevond commutation .ccececcccoceesececscncecs G6 24 45 24 
The elongation for which is ..scscceces secsceecseroes = 12 56 49 


Sun’s longitade twice equated .ccccccercceeesccecccoee 10 26 6 31 
Mercury’s geocentric longitade twice equated ..cessseeeee 10 13 8 42 


Third Operation. 
Mercury’s geocentric longilude twice equated ......+.ee0+ 10 13 8 42 
Mercury's aphelion, subtract......sesecesseesceeencene 7 14 #54 40 
Anomaly ...cccceseccneccncreccccssecsaceeeeasecees 228 14 2 
The equation for which 16 ...escescceccceteceseceeseee = 6 8 10 
San’s mean longitude .....sseeeceseresvccevccceccanes i 2 9 6 
Snn’s longitude thrice equated ....ceeoreeesersereerece 10 5 56 


26 
Which taken from Mercury’s mean longitude .....-00+-+6 5 20 5t 15 
Leaves the third commutation 24 
The elongation for which i9 ..sessssecaceresvecceceees mm 12 57) «66 
San’s longitude thrice equated ....seccecvcescorecerees 10 2 5&8 56 
mecenry 3 gencettte longitude thrice equated ........-5++ lo 13 


eee cceeeceenecesseacere 6 


Fourth Operation. 
Mercury’s geocentric longitude thrice equated.....+.+++++ 10,13 +8. 50 


Mercury’s aphelion, subtract....cessseseeseecevevcvees 7 14 64 40 
Anomaly 2... cccccccccccccecccccecvcceeesecscveccens 2 28 14 10 
The equation for which is ...sesssceeeneeccrerececcres ot | 6 $s 10 


Which being the same es in the third operation, all the rest witl be the same also: 
therefore the geocentric:place of Mercury is found to be 16° 13° 8’ 50”, and the 


elongation 12° 5%’ 6”. “Venus’s geocentric fongitude and elongation i is found in the 
same way. 


To find the mean heliocentric longitude from the true geocentric longitude, all the 
requisite data being given. This is the reverse of the former operations. An 
example will be sufficient. 

Required the mean helioceutric longitade of Saturn, from 

His true geocentric longitude found above. eee enseesenece Os 

Subtract the same from ‘the sun’s mean longitude. as weccces 11 

Leaves first commutation ......sesesevcsccrscssoecoes 

Parallax of the orb for which is, with a contrary sign....+. 

Geocentric longitude, add ..ceeseccccvesscccsscccsenes 


22° 31’ 24” 
2 9 6 

10 9 37 42 
+ 4 33 59 


0 22 31 24 
Sums ys sea dasencecavaGicesareweowsieemasseseduees 200 27+ “3-(9s 
Subtract place of the aphelion .....eeeessscesvcevecees 8 20 54 27 
Anomaly ...csccccvcesscscceccccsccessccescesenvoes 4 6 10 56 


Equation of the orbit for which is, with a contrary sign .... + 6 25 6&9 
Bad ooh edsdeseesissad vias varies tietexensenes 0 2 5&5 2 
The sum is the mean heliocentric Iongitude o......eee0cee 1 3 


31 22 

' Second Operation. - 
cite te, 11 2 9 6 
Subtract mean longitude last found ...ceaccacecreeceees 1 3 31 @ 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 


Second commutation ........cceccesccccscccccceccees 
Parallax of the orb for which, with a contrary sign ...... + 
Add geocentric place as before ......ccccccecccscvceses 
The sum is ...sseseccvccsccccescccccceccevccesecens 
Subtract the aphelion ......sccecsucccsscssescsccecece 
Anomaly .. 0. ccacccccccescccccccccscccccctccccvccce 
The: equation for which is, with a contrary sign ....seseee 
Add cece ccesccccnceccccrscenccecaccesasseeceses 


“The sum is the mean heliocentric longitude .....sceeccces 
Third Operation. 
Sun's mean longitude ....cecscccccacvcccscvcenecscecs 
Subtract mean longitude last found ......cccserssnceecs 
Third commutation... ....-.ccccccccccccccsvcccvcesees 
Parallax of the orb for which is, with a contrary sign...... 
Geocentric longitude, add .....cccccceccseccrcncccooes 
The sam is ...cccrsscsccccscccccsvcvcsaccecccvceses 
Subtract place of the aphelion .......cceescccacceccees 
Atomaly ..sccccvcsccccvccccncscscccccccccesseerees 
Equation of the orbit for which is, with a contrary sign .... 


Add... cecccccccvercccrevccvcccseesceccesenvesccees 


The sum is the mean heliocentric longitude .......ee0+0 


Foxrth Operation. 
Sun’s longitude .....ccccceccccccccccccvecevsccvess 
Subtract the mean heliocentric longitnde ......+0ceesseee 
Foarth commutation ......ccccccccccsccevecccccecece 
Parallax of the orb for which is, with a contrary sign...... 
Add geocentric longitude .....cccescevecccccccoveece 
The 80m if ...ccocecscccccccsccsccscccscccecsvvesen 
Subtract place of the aphelion ......secccccsssvacsoece 
Remains the anomaly.....sccscccsescccccsccscccssoss 
Equation of the orbit for which is, with a contrary sign .... 


Bdd ce ccccrsccccnvcccccsscescceccsseevccceccsecccs 


The sum is the mean heliocentric longitude .........eec00 


Fifth Operation. 
Sun’s mean longitude .....ceecssececccccccesccccecees 
Subtract mean longitude last found .....-cceccscesccces 
Fifth commutation ...0secsccescecceccccccccvcesvcers 
Parallax of the orb for which is, with & contrary sign ...... 


229 


9 28° $7’ 44” 


+ 5§ 17 18 
0 22 Sk 24 
0 27 48 42 
8 20 54 27 
4 6 54 15 
+ G6 22 28 
® 27 48 42 
1 4 11 #10 
11 2 9 6 
1 411 «#10 
9 97 57 56 
+ 6 19 25 
® 23 3h 24 
0 27 50 49 
8 20 54 27 
4 6 56 22 
+ 0 6 22 27 
0 27 50 49 
1 4 18 16 
lk 2 9 6 
1 4 18 16 
9 27 55 650 
+ 5 19 42 
0 22 $1 24 
0 27 51 6 
8 20 54 27 
4 6 56 39 
+ 6 22 17 
0 27 51 6 
1 4 13 2 
li 2 9 6 
1 4 18 2 
9 2 55 43 
+ 6 19 42 


Which being the same as in the fourth operation, puts an end to any further calcu- 
lation : so that 1* 4° 13’ 23” is the mean heliocentric a ia required, differing 


only about 27” from the original in page 225. 


Digitized by Google 


230 APPENDIX. 


Table of the Circumferences, Semidiameters, and Eccentricities of the Orbits of 
the Planets, in Yojans*, according to Dada Bhai, a Commentator on the 
Surya Siddhanta. : : 


ECCENTRICITIES. 


ORBI!Ts. 


Least. Greatest. Mean. 


Circumfer. | Semidiamet. 
684871| 26018 45 7) 26018 45 7) 26018 45 7 
51229; 4523 48 19| 4523 48 19} 4523 48 19 
164946; 12868 14 44; 60663 28 24) 36765 51 34 
421316) 12879 23 4; 304426 10 1) 158652 46 32 
1288140/262941 35 0} 847254 18 40° 555097 66 50 
8123328:724922 53 2/1631114 6 4711178018 29 24 
20186140|215690 0 38/2262907 7 48'1239343 34 8 


43315000 
324600 
1043208, 
2664637 
8146909 
51375765 


* The Yojan is about 9.1-11th English miles, according to the Lildvati. But the astronomers 
reckon the equatorial circumference of the earth about 5059 Yojans: the degree, therefore, 
becomes equal to 14.1-19th Yojans nearly, which makes the Yojan something less than five 
miles, taking the degree on the equator to be 69 miles, 


Digitized by Google 


No. II. 


REMARKS 
ON 


THE CHINESE ASTRONOMY. 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 233 


No. II. - 


REMARKS ON THE CHINESE ASTRONOMY. 


In the course of my investigation of the antiquity of the Hindu 
astronomy, I was induced to take a cursory view of the Chinese, in . 
hopes of finding some analogy between them, and thence be able 
to draw some conclusion which of the two was the most ancient, 
In this enquiry, however, I met with nothing that could induce me 
to believe that any connexion existed between them, at least in 
ancient times. I found that the Chinese were not only far behind 
the Hindus in the knowledge of astronomy, but that they were 
indebted to them, in modern times, for the introduction of some 
improvements into that science, which they themselves acknow- 
ledge. With respect to the Lunar Mansions of the Chinese, they 
differ entirely from those of the Hindus, who invariably make 
theirs to contain 13° 20’ each on the ecliptic ; whereas the Chinese 
have theirs of various extents, from upwards of 30° to a few mi- 
nutes, and marked by a star at the beginning of each, which makes 
them totally to differ from the Hindus. . 

The Arabs were the only people that I knew of beside the 
Hindus that had Lunar Asterisms ; and as they are said to have 
communicated some of their astronomy to the Chinese about eight 
or nine hundred years ago, a comparison with their mansions, I 
thought, might throw some light on the subject, and in this idea 
I was not mistaken ; for, on comparing the Arabian and Chinese 
Lunar Asterisms together, I found, to my surprise, that. not less 
than thirteen out of the whole number, which consists of 28, were 
precisely the same, and in the same order, with scarcely a break 
between them. Here then there appeared sufficient evidence to | 
shew, that there must have been a connexion between them at 
some former period, and that the one must have borrowed from 
the other: but the question then was, who borrowed fiom tha 


H H 


Digitized by Google 


234 APPENDIX. 


other,— was it the Chinese from the Arabians, or the Arabians 
from the Chinese? If the Chinese were the borrowers, some 
means might be found of determining the antiquity of the mansions 
among the Arabs; but if the Arabians were the borrowers, then 
we must have recourse to the names of the Chinese mansions, to 
see if they afforded some clue. I mentioned the circumstance to a 
learned Mahomedan, in hopes of getting some information, and his 
reply was, that neither the Chinese borrowed from the Arabs, nor 
the Arabs from the Chinese; but that they both had borrowed 
from one and the same source, which was from the people of a 
country to the north of Persia, and to the west or the north-west 
of China, called Turkistan. He observed, that before the time of 
Mahomed, the Arabs had no astronomy ; that they were then de- 
void of every kind of science; and that what they possessed 
since on the subject of astronomy was from the Greeks. To 
which I replied, that I understood the Mansions of the Moon were 
alluded to in the Koran ; and as the Greeks had no Lunar Mansions 
in their astronomy, they could not come from them. He said,: 
that the mansions alluded to in the Koran were uncertain; that no 
one knew what particular star or mansion was meant; and there- 
fore, no inference could be drawn that any of those now in use 
were alluded to. Here our conversation ended ; and as no great 
light was thrown on the subject, by supposing that the Chinese 
and Arabs borrowed from one and the same source, instead of one 
of them from the other, I thought it was best to adopt another 
‘course, which was, to examine into the meanings of the names of 
the Chinese maasions, which might refer us to some of the constel- 
lations, in the same manner as the Arabian. names of several of 
their mansions refer to certain parts of the constellations from 
which they derive their names, by which their antiquity would be, 
atall events, limited by the period when the constellations them- 
selves were first framed, beyond which they could not be carried, 
but might otherwise be of a very modern date. With this view, 
I carefully examined the name of the Chinese constellations, and 
particularly their mansions, because on the latter only, the anti- 
‘quity would rest; for of the former many might have been intro- 
‘duced since the first arrival of the missionaries in China, and, per- 
haps through their assistance ; but the latter could not, as they 
‘existed before their times. In this search I was not disappointed ; 
for I found that two mansions in Scorpio, Sin, Wei, referred to 
parts of that constellation : the first, being the name for the Scor- 
' ‘pion’s heart, is called the heart station; the other, signifying tail, 


Digitized by Google 


- APPENDIX. 235 


is called the tail station, thus referring at once to the parts of the 
constellation to which they respectively belong. We cannot, 
therefore, on this ground, admit them to possess a greater anti- 
quity than the constellation itself, from certain parts of which they 
derive their names. Indeed there is strong ground to believe, that 
they are not older than the third century of the christian era: but 
before we can enter on this discussion, it is proper to exhibit both 
the Chinese and the Arabian mansions together, in order to be 
compared, as in the following Table. 


TABLE I. 
The Arabian and Chinese Lunar Mansions, exhibiting the first 
Star of each. 
Arabian Names and first Star of each \Chinese Names, and first Star of each 
Mansion. Mansion. 
1 Simakoo! uazal, Spica Virg. [| 1 Keo, Spica Virginis. 
2 Ul Ghufr, 98 Virg. | 2 Kang, 98 Do. 
3 Uz Zubana, a Libre. 3 Te, a Libre. 
4 Ul Icleel, wo6PScorp|} 4 Fang, x eee Scorpii. 
5 Ul Quib, (Oolugrab,) a Scorp. 5 Sin, o Do. 
6 Usb Showlah, v Scorp. | 6 Wei, € Do. 
7 Un Nwain, y Sagitt. 7 Ke, y Sagittarii. 
8 Ul Bulda, ¢ Do. | 8 Tow, ¢ Do. ; 
9 Sad’oodb Dhabih, 8 Capric. 9 New, B Capricorni. 
10 Sad’ool Bala, ¢ Aquar. 10 Neu, e Aquarii. 
11 Sad’oos son-ood, B Do. 11 Hea, B Do. 
12 Sad’ool akhbiyuh, y Do. 12 Wei, a Do. 
13 Ul Fargh’ool Mooguddim, 6 Pegas. 13 Shih, a Pegasi. 
14 Ul Furgh’ool Mooukkhir, y Do. 14 Peeh, y Do. 
15 Ur Risha, Andromed. 15 Kwei, $38 Andromeda. 
16 Ush Shuratan, y Arietis. 16 Low, B Arietis. 
17 Ul Botyn, pe Do. 17 Wei, 35 Br. C. Do. 
18 Uth Thuryya, 7 Pleiad.. 18 Maou, n Pleiadum. 
19 Ud Duburon, y Tauri. 19 Peel, y Taari. 
20 Ul Higah, A Orionis. 20 Chuy, A Orionis. 
21 Ul Hinah, y Geminorum.' 21 Tsan, 8 Do. 
22 Udh Dhbira, aGeminorom.| 22 Tsing, a Geminoram. 
23 Un Nattrub, Preesepe. 23 Kwei, 6 Cancri. 
4 Ut Turfuh, ¢ Leonis. 24 Lew, & Hydre. 
25 Uj Jebheh, a4 Z Do. 25 Sing, a Do. 
126 Uz Zoobrab, 72 Br. C. Do. || 26 Chang, uv Do. 
27 Us Surfub, B Do. 27 Yih, a Crateris. 
8 Ul Awa, B Virginis. 28 Chin, y Corvi. 


The first four mansions appear the same with the Chinese and 
Arabians; the 5th differs in the Chinese beginning the mansions 
with o instead of a Scorp. but as including a, they call it the man- 
sion of the heart; in the sixth they also differ, but the 7th, 8th, 


Digitized by Google 


236 APPENDIX. 


Otb, 10th, and 11th, are the same; in the 12th and 13th they 
differ a little, and in the 14th they again agree, but disagree in the 
15th, 16th and 17th; in the 18th, 19th, and 20th they also agree, 
but disagree in all the rest. 

Here then we see, that out of the whole no less than 18 agree, 
and these all within the first twenty. This regular agreement and 
commencement of both from the same point is so particularly 
striking, that no one can doubt but that they must have been ob- 
tained originally from the same fountain head. That they are not 
of Chinese origin is certain, because the point of commencement 
does not agree in any manner with that of the Chinese year, which 
either begins at the autumnal or vernal equinox; and there is not 
the slightest doubt but that the year, in the country where the man- 
sions were framed, must have begun either at the vernal or autum- 
nal equinox, but most probably the vernal, as the star in the Lu- 
nar Asterism would then be on the meridian at midnight, and the 
longitude of the star six signs from Aries. If we wish to know 
when this was the case, we must determine the time from the pre- 
sent longitude of Spica. 

In A. D. 1750, the longitude of Spica Virginis was 6* 20° 21’ 
18”, so that it has advanced 20° 21’ 18”. Now if we assume the 
annual precession at 50” we shall get 1466 years, which, subtracted 
from 1750, leaves A. D. 284, the time when the autumnal equinox 
coincided with the star, which we conclude was also the time 
when the lunar Mansions were framed. Consequently, if this 
assumption be correct, the Chinese must have received their man- 
sions from some quarter, since the Year A. D. 284, and, in order 
to preyent detection, gave them names of their own. To this it 
may be objected, that they have tables of Lunar Mansions of a 
date many years anterior to A. D. 284; that they are mentioned 
in their old books; and that celestial observations of very great 
antiquity are referred to them. To which it may be observed, 
that all this is fine declamation, full of plausibility, but without 
the slightest proof. A nation like the Chinese, who are proud and 
jealous of all others, would naturally use every possible means to 
conceal the adoption of a set of Lunar Mansions received from 
another state, to which they would not confess themselves to be 
' under an obligation. They would therefore not only disguise 
them by new names of their own, but would likewise compute 
tables of them for different periods of time, long anterior to the 
time of their reception; and to make the matter still more com- 
plete, they would make mention of them in their pretended an- 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 237 


_ cient books, fabricated then, and refer various fictitious celestial 
observations to them, settled by computation backward, or per- 
haps by no computation at all, as in the supposed observations on 
comets, in which they knew they could not be detected. Many 
of these pretended observations have been found to be false, and 
the others that were supposed to come near the truth, were no 
other than the effect of mere computation in ‘modern times. But 
that which destroys all these supposed ancient references most 
completely, is the time of the formation of the constellations, 
which I have placed between the years 756 and 746 B. C., and 
others carry back as far as 1100 or 1200 years before Christ. If 
they have imposed on us in this respect, by going beyond the limit 
here assigned, what security have we that they have not imposed 
on us in the first instance, in assuming to themselves the invention 
and formation of the Lunar Asterisms above exhibited, which 
most certainly never were Chinese, nor were invented before the 
time I mentioned above, viz. A.D. 284? But whether these man- 
sions were the invention of the people of Turkistan, or of the Ara- 
bians, we have not the means to ascertain. The Arabians gene- 
rally use the Lunar year; but they have also the astronomical 
solar tropical year, beginning at the vernal equinox, I believe, and 
therefore there would be no inconsistency in considering them the 
inventors, until we can discover the real country to which they 
originally belong. The Chinese themselves admit, in some of their 
books, that in the year A.D. 164, they received from the West a 
work containing a catalogue of 2500 stars; but when this book is 
enquired after, they pretend that it is lost—a circumstance which 
at best looks very suspicious: that work might contain something 
that would disclose some of the Chinese impositions, and there- 
fore, it may be presumed, is carefully kept out of sight. 

Some time after I had written the above remarks, and was just 
ready to send them to the press, a book fell into my hands (Kir- 
cher’s Lingua Egyptiaca), containing the Egyptian Lunar Man- 
sions, which appear to be those we are in search of; for they make 
the equinoctial colure to cut the star Spica Virginis, which could 
not be later than A.D. 284, the epoch to which I referred the: 
formation of the Arabian and Chinese Lunar Mansions, as founded 
‘on that circumstance. 


Digitized by Google 


ons, with their Egyptian 


APPENDIX. 


’ The following table of Lunar Mans 
names and explanations, longitudes, 


238 
work, 


1s 


1T0 *tt onentmse3 AOLIO}SOg 01}83G SeisopnyIy 8Z 
P IL oooee* gaonearasad stoi ‘781g ‘8O[DIIY LZ 
1Z 0 °° ***eumppucosqe waIyoRg ‘ovueqjnedy 9% 
6 OL °° °* umarpuynesq opnyneag ‘saynenmady ¢z 
920 *t°rere? waydsosqe WOIqoEIg, ‘soyrunady) 
E10 Totter ee? HoyToNs wnIqovlg, Ssoynady) €% 
0 6 Bec cccerecenerescerssece SHTAID ‘s110q Lo 
LL O ‘*oo°sneypunonr paw anein 3 ‘qoameulin 1% 
v gs °° ore cecesceer cessor esgioneg ‘easy 0% 
TZ O coerteecreeeeseesesees Jog ‘UBINUGD 61 
6L Per ere eee ee ec eee eu010g ‘iduqdayg SI 
9% 0 eee revere ee seseepeeedeseere mug LI 
E10 footers et? smonenidorg “wig ‘BIequIEqD 91 
soeeeesooees SIpnINTY ONS *so}t0q¢g cI 
BLO cree ce eeeeessnueey onng “eIaNqY FT 
a eee + © *+sroury On8}g ‘ejnqdsy SI 
12 0 Peereseseresereresrese tWapt ‘ao1o4gorg Zl 
6 a we maereerescsesesreses sauig ‘raged WU 
96.0 Sotetee sess suatinjzed wusdiag ‘soyneig OT 
eT 0 peewee eeroeoeoe BIUaN GUL WBS ‘s1j0mLIa, 6 
oe eee ecco eeerceereeees sognigny ‘iqealg § 
LLOQ totereseeeseesseeseeeserreress Bue f 
z oe eoe veces ceedoces oe MiNISNBL) ‘SOUn[Y 9 
20 socecesooeoscorofeny MOH onsis ‘uonold ¢ 
[sees esesecsee cesses HOP ONLIG ‘SBOP 
Zz 0 erence vccec ees sgQ}99UUO’) }8IS ‘UOllOy € 
T 0 
v0 


‘doliajsud ulapy ‘194 yn00ur jooysiny 10 
*oLLayUL OLEndes YT ‘UIppnScow yoo ysnJ 1 
*MNIOII0}UG} BUNIIOT ‘yndiqqynjoo PLS 
*UINAVUN}IO} BUN}IO.T ‘poo oos-so0-p LS 
*sryaalynpsap Bunyog ‘epng [00 prs 
‘sIpURpORUL BUN}IOT “NIquyd Pd pes 
‘sqin ‘epinag IN 

qaaufolas ‘zr0;0I0D ‘mIBAN Ul) 

“THeL “Ge[Hogs 4s 

"109 ‘qed 10 

*Ba0104 ‘199/97 1 

“sau[Q ‘Bauquz 2) 

*Sumnopaed ‘1045 1 

“s1a1311A 2 OpHyNy ‘Zen jooxeas 
*Burqaug ‘eay 11 

*opnyissio1 A “qnjing 81) 

*ouBy 8,WOry ‘qniqoo7Z Z) 

senor “qeyqes [1 

ssnaog ‘qnyzny, 10 

sprend ‘avurqoye AA ‘QOIQIUN of) 
ssnyiquy ‘eqd WPA 

“qearH i 

swaqg ‘xog ‘qebiy 10 

ssopetpy ‘aeinqnud po 

ssaperatg ‘effing, 

ssnnoinua, ‘u4jog 1 

*yqeuL paxty “Teynangs 4s) 

“simm,g “eqsryy 4) 


2) ‘soupy umquiy “buoy “28 ‘soupy umydhbg 


&c. are taken from th 


HeSoosseso sees soso sssosooses 
° 
© 


eceeereecoaros LOTT Rasy ‘aou0yD yg Zz 
oe oceeccccosreercrs sansty ONE ‘aony I 


> 
% 


“TE ATAVL 


Digitized by Google 


at the verna] equinox at noon, the star Spica is on the meridian at 


which is also the name in Arabic and Chinese, is meant, that at the com- 
and of course at its greatest altitude; which points out the age of the mansions to be 


.D. 1823. They could not therefore be known to Ptolemy. 


* By Altitudinis, 
mencement of the year, 


midnight, 
about 1539 years in A. 


APPENDIX. 239 


On looking over this table, the first thing that strikes us, as 
different from any other we have seen, is, that it is divided into 
four portions or parts of 90° each; the first of which begins with | 
Aries, or the vernal equinoctical point; the second with Cancer, 
or the summer solstice; the third with Libra, or the Autumnal’ 
equinox ; and the fourth with Capricorn, or the winter solstice. 
It also appears, that the extent of each Lunar Mansion is about 
13°, and the Spica Virginis is placed in six signs from Aries, 
which makes the antiquity of the table (now 1823) 1539 years. 
I have given Kircher’s explanations of the Egyptian names of the 
mansions, in order that they might be compared with the explana- 
tions of the Arabic names of the same mansions, which I have 
taken from the commentary on Ulugh Beigh’s Table of the stars ; 
by which it will be seen that they are the same, or nearly so, 
throughout, and that consequently the Arabs must have borrowed 
from the Egyptians, and the Chinese from the Arabs; at least I 
am rather inclined to think so. 

As the other parts of the Chinese astronomy afford no crite- 
rion for judging of their antiquity, and being in fact generally 
acknowledged to be modern, we shall now close the subject with 
the following tables of the Chinese constellations, which I have 
taken from the Rev. Dr. R. Morrison’s Chinese Dictionary, hoping 
that, as they are not generally known, they may be acceptable to 
those who take an interest in the study of astronomy. 


TABLE III. 
Alphabetical Arrangement of the Chinese Constellations and Stars. 


1 Chang yuen k t and small stars, Leo. 


2 ,, sha ¢ Corvus. 

3 , suh,* «cvvdrAA\ oo Hydra. 

4  ,, chin,- Cor Caroli. 

5 jin, a Columba. 

6 Chaou yaou, B Bootes. 

4 Chaou, d Hercules. 

m Capricorn. 

8 Chay foo, p ¢ and 2 small stars, ‘Cy; 

9 ,, ke, is 3324, L 3341, e 3358, uae 
10 ~=~=«,, «Sze, » Serpens. 
11 Chih new, a Lyra. 
12 Chin suh,* y « Corvus. 


13 ,, chay, y Libra, f Lupus. 


Digitized by Google 


240 
14 Choo, 


15 ,,_ she, 
16 Choo, 
17°=«, «= Wang, 
18 Chow, 

19 ,, ting, 
20 Chung tae, 


Chuy suh yih,* 


21 Chung shan, 
22 Etseo, ~ 
23 Fa, 

24 Fang suh,* 
25 Fe yu, 

26 Foo yue, 
27~«,, ~chih, 
28 ,, loo, 
29 ” urh, 
30 55 pih, 
31 ,, sing, 
32 ,, shay, 
33 ,, shwo, 
34 Fun moo, 
35 Hae shih,- 
36 ,, shan, 


37 Han, 

38 Hang, 

39 He chung, 
40 Hea tae, 
41 ,, tsae, 
42 Heen yuen, 
43 Heu suh,* 
44 ,, leang, 
45 Heuen ko, 
46 Hin chin, 
47 Ho neaou, 
48 ,, kéen, 
49 ,, chung, 
50 ,, koo, 
51 Ho, 

52 Hoo fun, 
53 ,, she, 
54 ,, kwa, 
55 How kung, 
56 How, 

57 Huh, 

58 Hwa kae, 


APPENDIX. 


agxr» v Auriga, i, g,k, ~ A and another, 
Centaur. 

x Draco. 

x Pegasus, a Ara O s, name. 

7 B.C. 1200, 1228, between the horns of 
Taurus. 

8 Serpens, s. n. » Capricornus. 

v w Coma Berenice. 

d p Preceding hind foot of Ursa Major. 

r Orionis. 

b & » Hercules’ hand. 

Apus, Bird of Paradise. 

1 v Orion, s. n. | 4862 Capricornus. 

B o x p Scorpio. 

Piscis Volans. 

b 5333, 5345, 5362, 52, Stream of Aquarius. 

cy near r, Cetus. 

g d Cassiopeia. 

Small stars near Aldebaran. 

y Hydrus. 

g small stars near Mizar, tail of Ursa Major. 

Cluster in hand of Perseus. 

y Telescopium. 

y $n «7 Aquarius. 

A Argo? 

d and small stars near Crux, and the foot of 
Centaur. 

{ Ophiucus’ knee, s. n. ¢ Capricorn. 

v 3039 pu 3030 ¢ 3069 Centaur. 

x 60 Cygnus. 

vy following hind foot of Ursa Major. 

6 Draco. 

Regulus, A 2232 yeX np vo Z« Leo. 

6 Aquarius. 

x Aquarius. 

y Bootes. 

2629 Coma Berenice, near E, Leo. 

Phoenix. 

y Hercules. 

B Hercules. 

Altair B y Aquila. 

Grus. 

t 2470, near 6 Leo. 

6 « x n Canis Major, and 6 w Argo. 

a By 5 Z Delphini. 

b 3162 Ursa Minor. 

a aria Ras Alhaque. 

«« Ophiucus, k i Hercules, near ditto. 

4 stars bet. Cassiop. and Camelop. uncertain. 


Digitized by Google 


59 Hwan chay, 
60 Jih, 
61 Jin uh, 

62 Kae uh, 

63 ,, yang, 

64 Kang che, 

65 ,,  suh,* 
66 Kang, 

67 Kang ho, 

Ke suh,* 

>? wan, 

Ke chin 

tseang keun, } 
Keaow pih, 
Keen sing, 


75 Keo suh,* 

76 Keue kew, 

77 Keuen she, 

78 Kean nan mun, 

79 Kung tsing, 
80 Keun she, 

81 Kew hiang, 
82 ,, ho, 

83 =, ~=yew, 


APPENDIX. 24) 
e i and two small stars near chin of Ophiucus. 
x Pegasus » Cygnus, s. n. « A Libra. 

e f g Pegasus, near fore foot. 

o Aquarius. 

¢ Mizar Ursa Major. 

4 small stars near Arcturus. 

ex pp Virgo. 

p 3947, Sagittarius. 

p 6 Bootes. 

First y 4053, 6 Sagittarius, 

« Centaurus, B Lupus. 


p near the Rump of Lupus, 


@ Dorado. 

v£ops Sagittarius’ head. 

v Scorpio. 

@ Aquarius. 

Spica, ¢ Virgo. 

k m Monoceros. 

»v Perseus. 

x, ¢ Andromeda. 

«« dX » Lepus’ Ears. 

8 Canis Major. 

p and small stars, Virgo. 

p Hercules’ arm. e 

pw b Eridanus, and stars in Sceptrum Bran- 
denburg. 


84 ,,chowchooyih Aodcér &c. Eridanus. 


85 Kih sing, 
86 Kin yu, 

87 Ko taou, 
88 Koo low, 
89 Kow ching, 
90 Kow, 
91 ,, 


94 Kung tseo, 
95 Kwan, 

96 Kwan Soo, 
97 Kwei suh,* 


98 ” ” * 

99 Lang wei, 
100 Lang tseang, 
101 Laou jin, 
102 Le kung, 
103 ,, shih, 
104 Leang, 


New star in Cassiopeia. 

e Dorado, probably the whole. 

v £ o x Cassiopeia. 

y t Centaurus. 

Ursa Minor. 

W 4322, two x 4364, 4365 Sagittariun. 
b ac Sagittarius. 

Two w Scorpio. 

p Capricornus. 

Pavo. 

A py, three ¢ w Cancer. 

Corona Borealis. 

50 pv wand Mirack, 6 Andromeda v xX 
and two w Pisces. 

dr 6 n O Cancer. 

abcde f, Coma Berenice. 

P Do. 

Canopus. 

Ap, Tv, and no Pegasus. 
xe w Taurus. 

6 Ophiucus, Yed. 

“I. 


Digitized by Google 


242 


106 Lee tsze, 

106 Leen taou, 
107 Lew suh,* 
108 Ling tae, 

109 Lo suh,* 

110 Low suh,* 
111 Luh kea, 

112 Luy teen, 
113 ,, peih chin, 


114 Ma we, 
115 Ma fuh, 
116 Maou suh,* 
117 Meih fung, 
118 Ming tang, 
119 Nan ho, 
120 Nan chuen, 
121 Nan mun, 
122 Nan hae, 
123 Neaou hwuy, 
_ 124 Neu tsang, 
1265 =, she, 
126 =, ~suh,* 
127 New suh,* 


128 Nuy kete, 


129 ,, ping, 
130 ., ping, - 
131 Pa, 

132 Pa keuh, 


183 Pae kwa, 
134 ,, kew, 
135 Pae, 

136 Peih suh,* 
137 ,, leih, 
188 ,,  suh,* 
‘189 Pih too, 
140 ,, ho, 
141 ,, loszemu, 
142 Ping taou, 
143 ~,, sing, 
144 ,, sing, 
145 Po sing, © 
146 San sze, 
147 San kung, 


.148 ,, keo hing, 


APPENDIX. 


d Ophiucus. 

n 6 Lyra. 

8207 0 po w Hydra. 

xe d Leo. 

v Capricornus, 

a B y Aries’ head, &c. 

Stars bet. Tarandus and Camelop. ? 

¢ Pegasus. 

exy 6 Capric. « o X @ Aquar. p s q 5476 
Pisces. 

6 Centaurus, 

B Do. W. foot. 

Pleiades. 

Musca Australis. 

ruger, Leo. 

a, rf n Canis Minor. 

6 &c. Robur Caroli ? 

a Centaurus, E. foot. 

— and 2927 Serpens. 

6 Toucan, perhaps the whole. 

e x p Hercules. 

wy Draco. 

e pv Aquarius. 

a B and Neb, 323 324 Capric. and Neb. 322 
Sagittarius. 

riand small stars between Eye and Nose 
Ursa Major. 

vox é& Leo Minor? if not Virgo. 

von é Virgo. 

e Serpens. 

é&hk i head of Auriga D D f near Cag- 
siopeia. 

e Delphinus, 

dX y Grus, 

Corona Australis. 

Algenib y Pegasus. 

B y 9c Pisces. 

Hyades Aldebaran y 3 «Xo. 

CBP Q Cerberus’ head. 

p o Gemini. 

Fomalhaut. 

t 0 Virgo. 

vy Hydra, h Centaurus. 

e » Lepus. 

a Indus? 

p ¢ onear Ear of Ursa Major. 

Three small stars bet. y 5 Virgo, s. n. to 
3 stars near Asterion’s head. 

Southern triangle. 


Digitized by Google 


149 Se han, 

150 Seang, 

151 Seaou tow, 
152 Seu, 

153 Shang ching, 
154 Shang wei, 
155 Shang tae, 


156 ,, tseang, 
157 =, =~, seang, 
158 ~=—,,_~—s foo, 
159 ,, _ peeh, 
160 ,, shoo, 
161 Shaou wei, 
162 ,, ching, 
163 ,, foo, 
164 ,, wei, 
165 ,, foo, 
166 ~,, ~=«itsae, 
167° ~,, _ peih, 
168 Shay fuh, 
169 ,, show, 
170 ,, we, 
171 She, 

172 ~,, Ilew, 
173 Shih tsze kea, 
174 +,, suh,* 
175 Shin kung, 
176 Shuh, 

177 Shwny foo, 
178 =a, Wee, 
179 ~— yg _~—s low, 


180 Sin suh,* 
181 Sing suh,* 
182 Sun, 

183 Sung, 
184 Sze kwae, 
185 Sze wei, 
186 ,, fe, 
187 ,, fuh, 
188 ,, foo, 
189 Ta ling, 
190 ,, tsun, 
191 ,, keo, 
192 Tae tsun, 


193 ',, yang show 


194 ,, yih, 
195 ,, taze, 
196 Tang mun, 
197 ,, shay, 


APPENDIX. 243 
ef 6£ée Libra. 

Small stars bet. 5 and e Ursa Major. 
Cameleon. 

6 Serpens. 

A Camelopardalis. 

L Do. s. n. « Cepheus. 

ex. Fore foot of Ursa Major. 

o Leo, s. n. v Coma Berenice. 

8 Leo, 8. n. y Virgo. 

d Draco. 

¢ Draco. 

A 3687. 

y Cepheus, s. n. C. Camelopard. 

n Tarandus. 


’ d Ear of Ursa Major. 


m Leo, and m p r Leo Minor. 
x Ursa Major. 
n 2348 Draco. 
wW 2348 Draco. 
Small stars between Hydrus and Toucan. 
e { Hydrus. 
Octans. , 
Small stars near leg of Columba. 
p Ophiucus. 
Crux. 
a Pegasus, Markab. . 
£3789 and 3745, Scorpion’s tail. 
a \ Serpens. 
vy — Orion’s hand. 
£600 p Canis Minor. 
a Eridanus, Achernar. 
Antares o r and two c and 7 Scorpio. 
Alphard, a Hydra and small stars near. 
6 « Columba. 


- » Ophiucus. 


H Taurus x x Orion. 
a B Equuleus. 

y 6 Do. 

bf g i Monoceros. 
N and small stars near head of Camelopard. 
r Perseus. 

6 Gemini. 

Arcturus. 

y Ursa Major. 

x Ursa Major. . 

i Small stars near a Draco. 

y Ursa Minor, s. n. E, Leo. 

b cc Centaur. 

a Cygnus and stars near. 


Digitized by Google 


244 APPENDIX. 


198 Te, Kochab, Ursa Major. 
199 ,, tso, a Hercules, Ras Algethi. 
200 ,, suh,* aByée p » Libra. 

201 Teen choo, a Ursa Major, Dubhe. 
202 ,, choo, dem p o Draco. 

203 ~+«,, chuen, Yn » Perseus. 

204 ,, fow, 3 Antinous. 

205 ,,  fuh, d o Scorpio. 

206 ,, han, Via Lactea. 


207. ~+,, +X%ihwan, Four ¢ Cetus. 
208 ,, hwang, ppc near) Auriga. 
209 ,, hwang 


Pole Star. 

ta te, 
210 ,, joo, ~ Second a, w Serpens. 
211 ~+,, kaou, « Taurus. 
212 ,, ke, d Ursa Major. 
213 ,, ke, ef Sagittarius. 
214 ,, ke, Small stars near 6 Hercules, s. n. f Argo. 
215 ~«,, keae, « v Taurus’ Ear. 
216 ,, kew, 6 p o Andromeda’s Arm. 


217 ~,, + keang, B 6 p, e Ophiucus, and a b Sagittarius. 
218 ,, keun, a Menkar, y 5) p » two & Cetus. 

219 ,, kow, 1971 Argo. 

220 ,, kwan, 1217, 1192 Z Taurus. 

221 ~,, kwan, 6 Ursa Major, 97, if not p. 


222 lang, Sirius, a Canis Major. 

223 Téen laou, w, and stars near, in Ursa Major. 

224 ,, Ile, Four stars within the o of Ursa Poy 

225 =,” lin, EefG o Taurus. 

226 4, luyching, 2 fears: » Capricornus and other small 
tars. 

227 =, mun, 2395, pr Leo. 

228 4, Oo, e Aries. 

229 Teen péen, cd, h g. Foot of Antinous, and stars in Scu- 


tum Sobieski. 
230 ~=,, ~=seang, Sextans. 
231 = =«,,  seuen, A Ursa Major. 
232 4, shay, 7 Argo. 
233 —,,_«ttatseang oo includes \ Andromeda and one 


keun, small stars. 
234 Téen téen, o 7 Virgo. 
235 = ,, tsan, o Perseus’ foot. 
236 = ,, tsang, tn 07 Cetus, 


237 «=, «‘tsang, «@« hand of Bootes. 


238 «,, tsée, «pbhc small stars near Hyades, - 
239 =, tsin, y Cygnus. 

240 ,, wang, B p Z Piscis Notius. 

241 =, yih, x Draco. 

242 =~, yin, é f Aries, 


Digitized by Google 


243 Téen yu, 
244 ~,, yuen, 
245 = ,, yuen, 
»» yuen, 
247 ~,,  tséen, 
To ming, 

To kung se, 
Too sze kung, 
Too sze, 
Tow, 

Tow suh, 
Tsan ke, 
255 Tsan suh, 
256 Tsaou foo, 
257 Tse, 

258 Tseih she, 
259 ~=,, shway, 
260 _ ,, sin, 
261 =~,, sheke, 
262 Tseih, 

263 Tseen tae, 
264 Tsew ke, 
265 Tsih, 

266 Tseih kung, 
267 Tsin heen, 
268 Tsin, 


” 
269 Tsing kew, 
270 Tsing suh, 
271 Tso kang, 
272 Tso cheh fa, 


273 ~,, she te, 
274 =~,, choo, 
275 =,, kea, 
276 ~,, ke, 
277 =~, ke, 
278 Tsoo, 

9? 
279 ~=«4, | ~Xkaou, 
280 Tsow, 

99 
281 Tsung kwan, 

3? 23 

282 ,, ching, 
283 ,, jin, 
284 ,, sing, 


285 Tsze tseang, 


72 ” 


APPENDIX. 245 
Small stars in Fornax Chemica. 

tx x > Eridanus. 
yOefnr, E| mt, Eridanus. 

BaH K Sagittarius. 

7 0c » Piscis Notius. 

d Piscis. 


B Cetus. 
D F. Cerberus’ head. 
w, h g n o Hercules, near hand and club. 
EXor > Sagittarius. 
0 0 Z, &c. Lion’s Skin, Orion. 
Betelguese, Bellatrix, Rigel, y 5 « Z « Orion. 
3 « £ Cepheus. 
H Hercules, near Cerberus. 
Caput Meduse, 
d » Perseus. 

Gemini, » Cancer. 

resepe, in Cancer. 
y and another star, Lupus, 
B deLyra. 
Eww Leo 2083, « § Cancer. 
y Cassiopeia. 
cpr yx x club of Bootes. 
wx g k Virgo. 
x q Hercules. 
b Capricornus. 
8 &v Hydra. 
yefX pv Gemini. 
e-Aries. 
» Virgo. 
£0 x & Bootes. 
« Draco. 
6 Algorab, B y Corvus. 
= Aquila. 
y, and stars near hand of Auriga, 
e Ophiucus. 
A Capricorn. 
ep o Cetus. 
6 Serpens. 
6 Capricorn. 
2567 Leo. 

Lupus. 

5 , Ophiveni 
k no pq Taurus, Poniatowski. 
K MN O Hercules, ; 
1 Leo. 
e Virgo. 


Digitized by Google 


246 
286 Tsze seang, 


287 =», 
288, 
289 ,, sub, 
290 Tung han, 
291 ,, hae, 
292 Wae ping, 
293 ,, choo, 
294 Wan chang, 
295 ,, lang, 
296 Wei sub, 
297 29 

9? 
298, 
299 ,, suh, 
300 ,, suh, 
301 Woo chay, 
302 ,, choo how 
303 ,, te tso, 
304 ,, tsze, 
305 =,, yue, 


306 Yang mun, 
307 Yaou kwang, 
308 Ye ke, 

309 Yen, 


>)? 
310 Yew kang, 
311 ,, chih fa, 
312 ,, she te, 
313 ,, choo, 
314 += ea, 
315 =, e, 
316 Yin tih, 
317 Yu neu, 
318 Yib suh, 
319 Yu, 
320 Ye lin keun, 
321 Yue, 
322 5 
323 «Cs, 
$24 Yun yu, - 
325 Yuh tsing, 
326 ,, kang, 
327 Ye chay, 


APPENDIX. 


6 Leo. 

6 Virgo. 

ny Columba. 

a B y 5 Lupus. 

» Orion. 

¢ x v w Ophiucus’ foot. 

n & Serpens. - 

ade fpr = Pisces, Fish band. 
q ¥ Monoceros’ tail. 

¢ @ v Ursa Major, fore leg. 

a B n « Cassiopeia. 

Musca. 

a Hercules. 

x is ues 

d Telescopium. 

a Aquarius, ¢ Pegasus. 

« » Scorpio, 

Capella 8 6 « Auriga, and 8 Taurus. 
Ocur¢ Gemini. 

B Leo, and four small stars near. 
a Ursa Minor. 

e ¢ Aquila. 

a Lupus. 

n Ursa Major. —- 

o 7, and small stars, Canis Major. 
v £ Ophiucus. 

¢ Capricorn. 

nop 7 and ster near, Pisces. 
B Virgo. 

nvr Bootes. 

a Draco. 

a Corvus. 

6 7 « x Antinous. 

Q Camelopardus. 

w Leo. 

a Crater. 

y Ophiucus. 

3rx pv p Aquarius. 

A Taurus, between Pleiades and Hyades. 
n Gemini. 

y Capricorn. 

« A Pisces. 

8 wp Eridanus, r Orion. 

e Ursa Major. 

e Virgo. — 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 247 
NAMES OF THE PLANETS, 


King sing Venus. Shwuy sin Mercury. 
Muh sing, Jupiter. | Ho sing, re Mars. : 
Too sing, Satur. 


TABLE IV. 


CHINESE NAMES, 


Right Ascensions, Declinations, Longitudes, and Latitudes of Ninety-two 
Stars, for the Year A. D. 1683. 


Chinese Names. 


2°51’S.| 9* 1°23’ |20°38’ N.|n Serpentis. 
38 22 N.| 9 10 27 [61 48 —ia Lyre. 


VTang hae ..-..eeees 
2/Chib neu yih «2.60. 


3/Tow sah yih......-- 27 12 S.} 9 6 50} 8 508. fone (1st Mans.) 
ay: 910 7] 8 53 N. 9 11 20 |26 59 N.(6 Serpentis. 

5 9 12 22 | & 15 8.| 9 12 66 |I7 41 Antinoi. 

6 917 21 | 2 36 N 9 19 11 |24 56 Aquile. 

7 9 17 58 | 7 87 9 20 27 |14 28 Antinoi. 

8iYew ke woo....+..-| 9 20 6 | 1 45 S.| 9 21 28 [20 15 = Antinoi. 

9\Ho koo san ......+.| 9 22 51 | 9 54 N.| 9 26 36 /31 18 = fy Aquilz. 

10|Ho koo uth .......+| 9 28 50} 8 7 27:19 |20 22 = ja Aquilz. 

tli Yew ke tung tseih ..| 9 24 3 | 8 15 26 0 21 38 = {ny Antinoi. 

12}Ho koo yih ......+.| 9 24 57 28 3 i 

13;/Yew ke tung pa ....| 9 28 46 | 1 41 8./10 © 832 |18 48 4 Antinoi. 
L4|Neow sub yih..,...../10 0 46 29 87 | 4 41 {8 Capricorn. (2) 
15|Teeu tsin yih ...+../10 2 46 20 35 157 10 |y Cygni. 

16/Neu sah yih.... 7 23 }8 10 |e Aquarii. (3) 
i7|Heu sub yih......../10 18 44 19 1; 8 42 Aquarii. (4) 
18|Wei suh san...,...+|10 22 12 82 (22 8 Pegasi. 


19|Wei sah yih,.......|10 27 26 
20/Fam moo sze_ ......{11 
21|Lay teen yih .,..../11 9 7 
22|Peh lo sze mun. ...../11 


a Aquarii, (5) 
~ ty Aquarii, 
% Pegasi. 


2glShih suh yih,......0(11 12 17 |13 83 NUL 19 26 N.la Pegasi. (6) 
24'Peih suh yih....06. {hl 18 |13 26 0 12 35 ly Pegasi. (7) 
'25|Teen tsang yih ., 63 |10 83 S./11 tO 1S. Ceti. 
26/Too sze kang ...... 64 119 44 sah 3 Ceti. 

27|\Kwei suh yih 1.0.26 1 47 N 15 58 N.J7 Andromedz. (8) 


28|Teen tsang san.,...6 
29|Low sub yih....200 
30) Wei shen tseih,....- 
31)Teen kwan kew ..., 
32|Wei sub yih,...00 
33/Teen kwan pa ...cee 
34/Teen yuen luh ....., 
35|Teen kwan yih.,.... 


BDO mt _ 
aonsearacoosnwe 
-— 
oe 


Om NAN we e 
Rea Se SSS rabsraSiBe 
= : 
Ss 
4 


ow 


4 Ceti, Menkar, 


Peocomaw oe erage ea Saw BN 


at tt tt ot OOO SO SO 


36/Teen ynen woo.....-/ 1 15 10 10 2 8. 26 125 57 = ly Eridani. 
'37|Teen ynen sze ....0- 19 36 |10 32 — 35 |27 47 |e Ditto. 
38|Maon suh yih ......| 1 21 20 [23 3 .N 48 | 4 10 N.Jje Pleiadum. (11) 


Digitized by Google 


0/Peih sub yih........ 2 34 
41/Yoh tsing san ...006, 213 5 
42] Woo chay urh....../ 2 18 21 
43|Tsan suh tseih ...... 14 53 
17 4 

17 13 

46/Tsan suh yih ......;219 2 
47/Choy sah yih ....../ 2 19 31 
48/Fa urh ,.....000-56) 2 19 58 
20 3 

20 4 

21 13 

23 13 

ceeces| 2 24 86 


$4|Tsing suh yih ...... 
55\Teen lang......s000 
56|/Nan ho urh ......66 


0 
50 
32 
44 
28 
20 


bo bo 


16 


DAW HSV 


51 
20 


69/Yew chih fa........ 
'70|Chin suh yih........ 
71|Tung shang seang .. 
72\Tang tsze tseang .... 


NNW pw ds =— www 
cooeseeone 
-_ 
o 


73|Keo suh yih........ 17 10 
74iKeo suh urh......4. 19 39 
75|Kang suh yih ..e00.| 6 29 0 
T6/Ta keo ... eee ceceee ) 22 


79|K wan seo yih 
80/Suh 


Per eeeresvecece 


ANE ss ce sais eines 
B4T S00... cece eee 
85/Sin suh yih 
S6lHan ooo... eee eee 
Wei suh Vibeccccece 
Te tso 


BD WWW WH WH WD WH BBW IIA AAAARAA aN KX pw & & — P — & OO GG CO DD PO BD OO DO OD BO BO bo ho bO bo DD ND 


yi 
82 Tsang jin nan shih woo} 8 26 0 


1921965’ 


APPENDIX. 


& 
SOBAMASIONEANDONADA 


SE SES SSS eSB oP aSNSSRK SSSR CEE 


= —— 
ROROARW OIA 
wr wwe 


SSokunkawsioaennone 
BSRRGSStS aS Ss eSFZEauNe 


w 
won 


Nn 
C=) 


ae 


Lie 


ze 2%) 2) 
QD GO QO GO OD GO OD AEA RR EE Re AED OO OG OH Or Or OU OO A > > C9 OD GS GO GO DO DO BD DO bo bO BOD bO BOD bo bO 


2| "2 


ia 


zee 2 


2 


26 50 


« Tauri, y Tauri. (12) 
27 55 S.|6 Eridant. 

22 52 N.ja Auriga, Capella, 

$1 12 S./6 Orionis, Rigel. 

9 Orionis, Bellatrix. 


a Do. Betelguese, 

pt Geminoram. (15) 
a Canis Major, Sirius. 
(8 Canis Minor, 

» Do. Procyon. 

6 40 N38 Geminorum, Pollux. 


a Crateris. (20) 
E Virginis, 


'y Corvi, Algorab. (21) 
2 50 N.ly Virginis. 

8 6 Do. . 

1 59 S./a Do. Spica. (22) 

8 

2 


42 N.|z Do. 
58 —|c Do. (98) (23) 
3 —Ja Bootes, Arcturus. 


7 Scorpio. (25) 
17 10 N.jd Gphiuci, yed. 
16 31 fe Ophiuci. 

3 55 S.|o Scorpio. (26) 
11 30 N.jz Ophiuci, 

15 0 S. Je Scorpio. (27) 
37 23 N.Ja Hercules. 


28 1 = {6 Ophiuci, 
26 11 ly Do. 
6 56 S.ly Sagittarii, (28) 


8 25 45 {19 57 N.j|z Serpentis. 


SB jin nan shih woo! 8 26 0 | $29 | 8 25 45 |19 57 N.lz Serpentis, | 


Digitized by Google 


No. Il. 


TRANSLATIONS OF CERTAIN HIEROGLYPHICS 


WHICH HITHERTO HAVE BEEN CALLED 


(THOUGH ERRONEOUSLY) 


THE ZODIACS OF DENDERA 


IN EGYPT. 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 251 


No. III. 


Translations of certain Hieroglyphics, which hitherto have been 
called (though erroneously) the Zodiacs of Dendera in Egypt. 


IN consequence of the extraordinary high antiquity assigned 
by some of the French writers ‘to those hieroglyphic sculptures 
called Zodiacs, found in the temple of Denders, or Tentyra, in 
‘Egypt, I was induced some years ago to examine them minutely, 
‘and found that, so far from their being Zodiacs, as represented, or 
called, they were nothing more nor less than the Roman Calendar 
for the year 708 of Rome, translated into hieroglyphics. This 
circumstance gave me hopes that re-translating them would be use- 
ful in developing the Egyptian method of hieroglyphics, in repre- 
senting things by their supposed images, particularly such articles 
as are generally inserted in calendars, which might ultimately lead 
to a more extensive knowledge of the subject. 

The circumstance which appears to have deceived the French 
writers into an idea of their being zodiacs, and of an antiquity of 
15,000 years or more, is simply this. They found that they con- 
tained figures of the constellations, that is, outlines without stars; 
and that some of these figures were again repeated or represented 
at about the distance of six signs from the original ones of the 
same name. The former figures they took for the constellations ; 
but the latter they assumed to be the signs, which therefore would 
require a space of time equal to 15,000 years to bring them into 
‘the positions they stand in at present. 

Thus they found that the constellation Aquarius, or the figure 
representing either it or the sign Aquarius, was in its proper place 
between Capricorn and Pisces. They found also another figure of 
it under Leo in the circular calendar, and another figure in a boat 
in the Calendar of the Portico, and from thence drew their conclu- 
‘sion of the extraordinary antiquity of these setae al zodiacs 
as they conceived them to be. 


Digitized by Google 


252 APPENDIX. 


It is well known to astronomers, that the constellations appear 
to rise and set differently at different times of the year. Thus, 
when the sun is in the same part of the heavens with a zodiacal 
constellation, that constellation will then appear to rise or set with 
the sun; and the time of such rising or setting would be recorded 
in the calendar, and all the risings or settings of the constellations 
with the sun, would follow each other in regular succession. But 
when the sun gets round to the opposite part of the heavens, then 
the same constellation would appear to rise at sunset, and to set 
at sunrise: the time of the year of such observation being inserted 
in the calendar, it will be found of course to differ about six 
months from the former. There are other risings and settings of 
the constellations which it is not necessary to mention, because 
their effect is to be considered in the same way. Now suppose 
this calendar is to be translated into hieroglyphics, with all the 
different risings or settings of the constellations sculptured on stone, 
according to the different times of the year at which they occurred, 
such translation would be made by putting the figure of the con- 
stellation in those very places where the name of the same is in 
writing: consequently the figures of the same constellation would 
appear in different situations, and at six signs distant from the ori- 
ginal. Thus the situation of Aquarius is between Capricorn and 
Pisces : but according to the Roman calendar, Aquarius sets on 
the 25th of July, about six signs distant from the situation of the 
original. Now this is the very figure given in the supposed Zodiac 
of Dendera, even with the very date attached to it, (see No. 56, 
in the Calendar of the Portico, Pl. vii;) and all that was done in 
the translation into hieroglyphics, was to substitute the figure of 
the constellation in the room of the name, and attach the date to 
it; which is represented by the figures 5. 5. 1. 1+8. 3. 1. 1=25th 
of July. There is another date which refers to the 13th of August, 
the time for which Aquarius is marked in the circular calendar as 
entirely setting, (see No. 50, Pl. viii.) He is there placed near the 
figure of Diana with her bow, whose day in the Roman calendar 
is the 18th of August, and accordingly so marked in the hierogly- 
phic circular calendar, by the figures 5 and 8=13, underneath, 
with another figure of Diana with the crescent on her head, No. 49. 

Having thus far explained the cause of the deception, in respect 
to the supposed extraordinary antiquity of those sculptured Roman 
calendars, I shall now proceed to give a general outline of their 
contents, which will render them easier to be understood after- 
wards, 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 253 


First. The Date. 


Both the calendars, that is, of the portico, PI. vii. and circular 
one of the interior of the temple, Pl. viii. begin with the date 708 
(of Rome), at the instant of midnight, and conjunction of the sun, 
and moon at Rome. 


SEconp. The Phases of the Moon. 


The new and full moons and quarters are occasionally marked 
throughout that year by a variety of symbols denoting the moon; 
such as, 

ist.— An oval or circle, generally placed on the head of some 
figure. See Plate vii. No. 31, 39, 48, 55, 60, &c. Plate viii. No. 
12, 19, 27, 57, 58, 62, &c. 

2nd. — An oval or circle, including within its disc some other 
figures, in allusion to the spots on the moon. See Plate vii. No. 
22, 77. Plate viii. No. 7, 17, 23. 

3rd. By the figure of an eye, whether included within a circle 
or not. See Plate viii. under No 1; also No. 23, and under 73. 

Ath. By the figure of an animal like a sheep, sometimes with a 
circle or oval on its head. See Plate viii. No. 12, 60, 86. 

5th. By a bird, particularly the Ibis, whether united to any other 
of the symbols or not. See Plate vii. No. 77, 91. Plate viii. No. 
60, 78. 

6th. By the figure of a man, with the head and beak of an Ibis. 
See Plate viii. No. 1. Plate vii. No. 53. 

"uth, By the figure of a fish? See Plate viii. No. 8, 9, and 16. 

There may be other symbols of the moon, which the reader 
may discover. 


Tuirp. The Sun’s entrance into the Signs. 


The day on which the sun enters the sign is sometimes marked 
by a figure of a man with a hawk’s head, as a symbol of the sun ; 
sometimes by a female figure, and sometimes by other figures in. 
tended to represent the sun. Besides these, there is also a mark 
to express the sun’s ingress into the sign, (see Plate ix.) Alll these 
figures have in general the day of the month marked in tablets 
close to them, except the last, which is to be found in the middle 
column only, but with the day marked close to it. The sun en- 
ters the sign twice in every month, on two different days. Thus the 
sun enters the sign Capricorn on the 18th December, but the win- 
ter solstice is marked on the 25th, making a difference of seven 
days. The cause of this apparent inconsistency I shall endeavour 


Digitized by Google 


254 APPENDIX. 


to explain hereafter. See the Roman calendar, as also Columella, 
at the four cardinal points of the year, or rather the months of 
December, March, June and September. 


Fourtu. The Festivals and Agonalias. 


The festivals and agonalias, (or sacrifices,) are generally marked 
by such figures as seem best to convey an idea of the thing in- 
tended; and the days of the month on which the same occur are 
always marked. See Plate vii. No. 7, 8, 33, and 97; and Plate 
viii. No. 4, 5, 24, 36, and 83, for the agonalias or sacrifices. The 
number of days the festival lasts is generally marked by as many 
stars. 


FirtH. The Rising and Setting of the Constellations. 


_ The rising and setting of the constellations are simply marked 
by their figures, sometimes with dates, and sometimes not, the 
situation in most cases being sufficient to point out the time nearly, 
as well as the kind of rising or setting. The figures of the zodi- 
acal constellations, as they stand in order, most probably are meant 
to represent the signs only, there being no regard paid to proportion, 
the manner or positions in which they stand, or their distances 
from each other, or from other known figures near them. 


Srxtu. The Seasons of the Year. 


The seasons are generally marked with the figures of Anubises, 

- or figures of men or animals of any description, with dogs’ heads 
or faces, or dogs’ feet. These figures are of a great variety of 
shapes, but invariably marked with something canine, which makes 
them easily known at first sight. Some are female, but mostly 
male. Whether the difference in their shapes depends on any par- 
ticular time of the year, I have not been able to ascertain with 
sufficient precision. When they represent the time of harvest, 
they are figured with an instrument to reap or cut down the corn. 
See Plate viii. No. 59, 61,75. The seasons appear to vary, being 
sometimes earlicr, sometimes later by two months, which appear 
to be all referred to, not only in the Roman calendar, but also in 
the hieroglyphic translations of it, which therefore obliges me to 
give here a table of the different seasons for the sake of reference. 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 255 


Table of the different Seasons. 


A B Cc D 
Spring begins |11 January, 9 February,* |23 February, |12 March. 
Middle|25 February, /25 March,* 9 April, 25 April. 
Summer begins |11 April, 13 May,* 125 May, 13 Jone.* 
Middle|24 May, 24 June,* 9 July, 25 July. 
Autamn begins /11 July, 1k August,* (24 August, 12 September. 


: Middle 24 August, 24 September,*| 9 October, 25 October. 
Winter begins 11 October,* |12 November, [24 November, |12 December. 
Middle|24 November, {25 December,* {10 January, 25 Janaary. 


The® refers to the Roman calendar, where the dates here arranged 
in order will be found, Those not marked are known by consider- 
ing. that a whole season is, on a medium, 91} days, and half a 
season 45 or 46 days. The letters A, B, C, and D, at the heads 
of the columns, serve for the purpose of referring to the particular 
season intended in the following translation. 


SEVENTH. Birds of Passage. 


These, as being connected with the seasons, are also repre- 
sented in the hieroglyphic calendars by the figures of the birds 
being given, and the times of the year marked. But unfor- 
tunately, as they are not all named in the Roman calendar 
brought down to our time, we cannot say with certainty what birds 
are intended by the different figures. The swallow, I believe,: is 
the only one marked in the Roman calendar, and is set down as 
appearing on the 23rd of February; and so we find it marked in 
the hieroglyphic calendar plate vii. under No. 24. In the Roman 
calendar the departure of the swallows is marked the 15th of Sep- 
tember, and they continue to disappear for one month, or until the 
15th of October, These circumstances are also marked in the 
circular calendar, plate viii. thus. On the 15th September is the 
figure of a bird, No. 63, with expanded wings ready to depart; 
and in October, nearly under the figure No. 72, is that of a bird, 
No. 71, with one wing expanded; and just before it, the figure of 
a man sitting: the meaning of which, as will be hereafter shown, 
is, end, termination, cessation, pause, stop, &c. thereby indicating 
the last appearance of the swallows. 

It is needless to say more on the subject of birds of passage, 
as we have not the means within our reach of specifying them in 
a more particular manner. It is proper to notice here, that there 
are other figures of birds in the hieroglyphic calendars that have 
no connexion whatever with the birds of passage, and therefore 


Digitized by Google 


256 APPENDIX. 


must be carefully distinguished, to avoid falling-into error. These 
are, the eagle or hawk, a symbol of the sun: birds representing 
the number twenty, which are im general connected with other 
numbers; and figures of birds symbolic of time, of the moon, and 
of the month. 


ErignutH. Numbers and Dates. 


These form the most essential parts of the calendars, because 
it is through their means we are in a great measure enabled to 
develope the meanings of all the principal figures, which otherwise 
would be unattainable, or at most could only be conjectured. It 
is to be regretted that the whole of the tablets are not legible, the 
numbers ia many of them being worn out by time. However, so 
far as they are elear and distinct, I have given them in Plate ix. as 
also the compound numbers, with their explanations. 

It appears that the Egyptians had twe modes of dating. When . 
the number exceeded a hundred, they used running figures, as we 
do at present, reading them from left to right: thus, in the date of 
the years at the heads of the calendars, we see 708, seven hun- 
dred and eight: but in small numbers under a hundred, as in the 
days of the months, they made use of a different method. In this 
case they employed any number of figures, all the same or dif- 
ferent, to make up by addition the number required. Thus, sup- 
pose the date to be represented’ was twenty-four, they would not 
write 24, but take those numbers that would, by their addition, 
make up that number, as 4, 4,4,4,8. See Plate vii. No. 72. &c. 
It may therefore be necessary to attend to this distinction in read- 
ing the numbers and characters. They had one peculiarity in 
eommon with the Romans, which was, that a distinct unit, placed 
before any number whatever, except an unit, diminished its value. 
See Plate vii. No. 92, &c. 

For the numerical value of most of the characters, simple and 
compound, consult Plate ix. which may also assist in developing 
their respective places and powers as alphabetical characters, 
particularly the simple ones; for the compound characters formed 
no part of the alphabet, as far as I can judge from such hierogly- 
phic inscriptions as I have hitherto met with. 

Thus, the figure of a bird in. numerals is 20; but as an alpha- 
betic character, it seems to represent the letter S or Sh, as appears 
on the sarcophagus of Alexander the Great, in the name Alexan- 
der, which is written Alegsander; in the word. Shere, son, in the 
same; and in the word Soth, one of the names of Mercury, or 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 257 


Thoth.— Thoth has a symbolic mark, and the name Thoth ex- 
pressed under it by two semicircles with the arch uppermost, 
which makes the character Th; and representing 8 in numbers, 
it should stand in the 8th place in the alphabet. The Serpent, 
which represents 4, is the last in the word Phre, a name of the 
sun, and written under it: therefore e is the 4th character in the 
alphabet. Arranging the alphabet as nearly as possible with the 
Hebrew, Arabic, Coptic, and other alphabets of the East, throwing 
together such characters as agree nearly in sound, so as to take 
in the three characters above mentioned in their proper places, 
as marked by their numerical values, we shall have the alphabet 
run in the following form, or nearly so: 


11 


12 yy 


L 
14) ae sae 19 ae Ta 22 ete 24 Blo. 
X:0. ‘x *aH|P TS ° SS CH 

I do not by any means intend to say that this arrangement is 
correct throughout : for in the latter part we have no simple cha- 
racters that I know of, that correspond to the numbers. 

In the Sarcophagus of Alexander the Great, so called, we can 
obtain the powers of several characters. In the name Philip we 
get the two first characters sitting opposite each other, the one 
Ph, the other Z; and the latter we find also the second in the 
name, Alexander. The character for p in Philip is variously 
written, and the remainder of the name seems to be a title, as it is 
found with other names. In the name Alezander, all the charac- 
ters are sufficiently plain: after the characters for A, J, comes 
that of a hand and arm for g; then the bird, as s or sh; then a 
figure somewhat oval, divided by a bar lengthwise, for n; then 
the semicircle with the arc upwards, which is th; and lastly, a 
circle with a cross in it for r, making the name Algshnthr. The 
characters are probably syllabic, that is, each carries its own 
short vowel. The circle for r is also found in the word Sheri, 
already alluded to, which word is represented by the figure of a 
bird, Sh, and a circle, r, placed between the names of Philip and 
Alexander; as much as to say, Philip’s son Alexander. ‘I men- 
tion this merely as a hint to others; for I have not materials suffi- 
cient to enable me to enter more fully into the subject. But these 
helps go but a short way in assisting us; for it seems that the 
very same letter of the alphabet may be represented ten or a 
dozen different ways: we see also that the same number is repre- 

LL 


Digitized by Google 


258 APPENDIX. 


sented by several distinct characters. See Plateix. This cir- 
cumstance in itself, exclusive of contractions, mere symbols, &c. ° 


must create considerable difficulties. The triple would, I sup- 


pose, be sufficient to give a pretty correct view of the hieroglyphic *, 


characters; but unfortunately I have never seen but the Greet 
part, which alone is of no use in the investigation. 


NintH. Figures that represent Beginnings and Endings. 


The beginning of any thing is represented by a head, and some- 
times by a man standing erect. 

The endings are marked by figures opposite to the former, viz. 
by a pair of legs and feet, and by a man sitting. 

Thus, for an example of both beginning and ending :—In the 
calendar, Pl. vii. nearly under No. 22, is the figure of a head and 
a pair of legs. The day is that of full moon, which in the year 
708 of Rome fell on the 18th of February, being the day held 
sacred to Jupiter Ammon, who is figured in the boat underneath 
with four rams’ heads. Now, if we look into the Roman calendar, 
we shall find that the 13th of February was called the Ides of that 
month, which were reckoned backward to the Nones, which fell 
on the 5th. Therefore from the Ides to the Nones are eight days, 
which are placed under the figure of the head, to imply that from 
the beginning of the Ides to their end, marked by the legs, are 
eight days. The date marked in the calendar of Dendera under 
the figure of the full moon, and over the heads of Jupiter Ammon, 
is 13, that is, 4 and 9. (See Plate ix.) Hence it is proved to be 
only a hieroglyphic translation of the Roman calendar, which 
gives the same date. 


Calendar of the Portico, Plate VII. 


=. at zy 


We shall begin with this calendar, as the most simple, distinct; — 


and easiest to be understood of the two; which being explained, 
the other (the circular one, PI. viii.) will thereby become less diffi- 
cult, as there are a great many figures in both that refer to the 
same subject. . 

The Calendar of the Portico, as it is called, is divided into three 


distinct columns, the first and undermost representing a number of ~ 


boats, arranged in regular order from beginning to end. This 
range of boats seems to have been partly intended for ornament, 


Digitized by Google 


Tk Scudpe 


( 
@ 


Ny 


wv 
— ‘ 
TT 
! 


i 
Sitapes.. | 
fer Sales Ji 
= mat 


sgle 


ayo 


ee - 


oe epee 


APPENDIX. .. 259 


and partly for the purpose of receiving such figures as could nos 
be represented in the third or upper column for want of room. The 
second ‘or middle column next to the boats is narrow, and there- 
fore affords room but for few figures: it extends the whole length, 
and is principally intended to have the date set down in it where 
necessary, together with marks of the sun’s ingress into the signs, 
and the marks which represent the beginning and ending of each 
month, &c. The third or upper column contains a variety of figures 
similar to those in the boats, each having a tablet, on which the 
day of the month was originally inscribed; but now many of them 
are defaced by time. Besides these, there are also the figures of 
zodiacal eonstellations, which, I believe, from the want of propor- 
tion and other circumstances, are only meant to represent the signs. 

The ealendar, being to long to be represented in one piece, is 
is divided into two separate parts, each of which is placed on the 
Opposite plat bands of the Portico, with a figure of Isis, or the 
year, under each, as represented, Pl. vii. The year 708 (of Rome) 
which is marked on the calendar, was that of the Julian correc- 
tion, or, as some have called it, the year of confusion; be- 
cause the ancients, not comprehending the nature of the correc- 
tion, imagined that Julius Cesar had added 79 days to the year, 
making it to contain 444 days, than which there could not be a 
greater mistake: for Julius Cesar did not add an hour to the year, 
which will be seen, if his mode of correction be properly under- 
stood. The matter was simply this: He found the whole of the 
ancient festivals completely deranged ; and henee, to correct these, 
as well as other matters relating to the calendar, he directed that 
the 15th of October in Numa’s year should be called the first of 
January, at the same time adding one day to the days in Novem- 
ber, which before were only 29, and two days to those in Decem- 
ber, which in Numa’s year were only 29, thereby making the former 
month to contain 30, and the latter 31 days. Now, it must be ob- 
vious, that by the method he thus adopted, he only changed the 
name of the time, without adding an hour, and that the positions 
of the sun, moon, and planets on the 15th of October in Numa’s 
year, were the same with their positions on the ist January in the 
Julian year, allowing for three days that were added. So that the 
difference of the time was merely nominal, though taken as real 
by the ancient writers on the subject; for they took it in a different 
light, and, computing from the 15th of October to the end of that 
month, they found it 17 days, to which adding November 30 days, 
and December 31 days, made to the end of December 78 days; 


Digitized by Google 


260 . APPENDIX. 


and one day more, to make it the first of January, made the-num- - 
79 days from the 15th of October to the 1st of January, both days 
inclusive, which they supposed to be in addition, and therefore . 
made the year 444 days, that is, 365+79=444. But if Julius 
Czesar had added 79 days, as was thus supposed, it would have 
made no alteration whatever in Numa’s year, because then the 1st 
of January, instead of being on the 15th of October, would fall 
at its usual time, and no change take place except the three days 
added in November and December. Now in the calendars of. 
Dendera, we have the same thing expressed or represented on the 
shoulders and body of Isis, thus:— On the shoulder of Isis, near 
the top, (see the plate,) are marked on one side 7 units, and on the 
opposite, 8 units more, making together 15, the day of the month, 
as above mentioned, at which the correction was made ;—- next 
below these are four stars on each shoulder, making together 8, 
the number expressing the name of the month, October, the 8th 
month of the year, reckoning from March as the first. Therefore 
the 15th of October is the day given by the figure of Isis. Then 
the next thing is to find the addition. Along the right-hand figure 
of Isis, which begins the calendar, there are a number of stars 
marked : these being counted down to the ankle-band, give 74, to 
which adding the five stars in the ankle-band, we have the whole 
number, 79 days, as the nominal difference to be added to the 
15th of October, to find the time in the Julian year, which agrees 
with what I have above stated. On the opposite, or left-hand Isis, 
there are marked in the same manner down to the ankle-band 83 
stars, which with the three on the ankle-band make 86, the num- 
ber of days from the first of October, to the winter solstice, both 
days inclusive, thus: Octeber complete 31 days, November 30 
days, and 25th December, make all together 86 days, as marked 
on Isis. The object in putting three of the stars on the ankle-band, 
was to point out the three days that were added at the end of the 
year to November and December; and the five on the opposite 
band was to remind the Egyptians, that they were to add five days 
to the end of every year, in order to make it agree or keep pace 
with the Roman year: and in those years that were leap-years, 
they were to add one day at the end of the month Mesori, by which 
means the month Thoth would always begin on the 29th of August, 
then sextilis, as it did in the year of the correction, and marked so 
in the calendar, to the translation and si aa of which we 
shall now proceed. 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 261 


Translation of the Calendar of the Portico, Plate VII. with 
explanatory Remarks. 


Day of the 
No. Month. 


Date, THE YEAR 708 OF ROME. 
This is marked at the head of the middle colamn, and 
read from left to right, the last figure of which is di- 
rectly under No. 1. 
1 The Year contains 366 days. 
This is represented by a small figure of Isis, the em- 
blem of the year. She has a head-dress on of the Afri- 
can or Nabian speckled hen, to denote the vicissitudes 
of seasons ; and a tablet before her, containing the number 
365 and a separate unit, to express that the year 708, over 
the last figure of which she stands, contains 366 days. 
The 30th day of the moon and conjunction. 
This is expressed by the figare of a bird, which stands 
for 20, with the figure of 10 under his feet, making 30; 
and the bird Ibis, the symbol of the moon, next to which 
is the mark of conjnnction. 
2 The sun enters the sign the 16th. 
‘This is represented by the figure of a man with a hawk’s 
head, a symbol! of the sun, with a tablet before him, 
expressing the date twice in different characters: first 
12,4=16; and 4, 4, 8=16. 
3 January, the Ist month of the year, the sun enters 
the sign the 25th. 
This is represented by the figare of Anubis with a cres- 
cent on his head, having a tablet with a bird, 20, on it, 
a serpent, 4, and an eye, 1, making in all 25, the day of 
the month. ; 
The sun enters the sign Aquarius on the 16th and 
25th January. 
This is marked by the figure of ingress into the sign, 
placed between Nos. 2 and3, and followed by two rows of 
figures: the under ones are 8, 4, 4=16; the upper 
ones are 12, 13 —25. 
4, 5,6 1 |The sun and moon in conjunction at night on the 
first of the month, and commencement of the 
year. 
This is represented by the figure No. 4, symbol of the 
sun, standing on the back of a goose, No. 5, symbol of 
night, or perhaps of Rome ; and No. 6, the figure of a. 
man with the head of an Ibis, symbol of the moon, in 
the boat: all three in a line, withan unit, a head, and 
the figure of conjunction, in the middle column, to ex-: 
press the first, and commencement of the month and 
year at such conjunction. In the circular calendar, the - 
ow! represents the time as night: here the bird is a. 
goose, which however, with the Egyptians, might repre-- 
sent the same thing: unless we consider it as the sym-. 
bol of Rome, or as commencement of the Roman year. 


Digitized by Google 


262 


No, [Day of the 


q 


10 


11 
12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


7 
18 


Month. 
8 


9 


APPENDIX. 


Sacrifices to Janus, on the 8th. 
This is represented by the figure of a man holding a 
kid, or some such thing, for the sacrifice, marked under- 
neath by the figure of 8. 

The Agonalia, on the 9th. 
This is represented by the figure of a man immolated, 
marked the 9th by the figares 4, 5. 

A festival for three days, marked in the tablet 18th, 

but not in the Roman calendar. 

The sun enters the sign the 25th. 
Marked by the figure of a female with a tablet, with 
the number 25 on it, represented by a serpentine figure, 
24, and an unit under =25: the female also points to 
the nambers in the middle column, being 5, 8, and 12. 

The sun enters the sign the 16th. 
Marked hy a female, but the tablet date not legible. 

The figure of Aquarius. 

The end of the month of January. : 
Represented by a pair of legs in the middle colamn, 
under the figare of Aquarius. 


FEBRUARY. 


The beginning of spring. See the table of seasons 
under B. 
Marked by the figure of a man in a boat, with a tablet, 
with the number 10—1 —39, and ahead, to express com- 
meucement : in the middle column it is also marked 10 
—il =o 
A bird of passage marked in the middle column, 
but name unknown. 
‘The sun enters the sign Pisces the 24th. 
The number of days in February 29. 
Marked by a bird=20, and 9 under it=29, middle 
column, 
The sun enters the sign the 17th day. 
Marked by a female and tablet, the numbers 12, 5 =17. 
The number of days in the month of February 29, 
again repeated. 
The middle of spring the 24th. See table of sea- 
sons, A. 
Represented by a figure of Anubis, with a tablet, 
marked 5, 7, 8, 4 =24. 
February ends the 29th. 
resented by the figure of a small animal couchant, 
followed by two compound numbers, each equal to 12, 
and a figure of 5 =29. 
The figure of Pisces. 
A festival of four days on the 8th, but not marked 
in the Roman calendar. 
Represented by the figure, symbol of the sun, in a 
boat, with a tablet, and the figure of 8 over a star, that 
is to say, the 8th day. 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 263 


The days in February again marked in the middle 
column =29. 

The Genialick games. 

Represented by a Phallus under No. 19 in the middle 
column. 

Arctophylax rises. 

Represented by the figure of a bear, or bearward, in the 
middle column, the date 8 and 3 =11. 

To Jupiter Ammon and Faunus, the 13th. 

Represented by the figure of a man in a boat, with four 
rams’ heads, and with two stars above them, to denote 
that the festival lasts two days: over the heads is the 
date in the middle colamn, which is 8, 1,9 —13th, and 20 
days after the sun’s entrance into Aquarius by the tablet. 
Full moon the 13th. 

Represented hy the figure of man holding a hog by the 
hind part within the moon’s disc, in allusion te the old 
Jeyend of the man or woman in the moon holdiag some- 
thing, supposed by fancy to be represented by the dark 
spots. The date is marked underneath, being the same 
with the last, answering for both. 

The Ides of February, the 13th. 

The Ides fallon the same day as the last, and as they 
are counted backwards to the Noue, which is the 5th ; 
they contain 8 days, represented by a head placed on 
the figure of 8, and then a pair of legs, to express 
that from beginning to end they contain 8 days. 

The Lupercalia. 

Represented by the fignres of two boys running, being 
a part of the ceremonies used in that festiv ‘by the 
Romans. . 

The sun in the sign Pisces, the 15th. 

Represented by a figure of the sun, with a tablet marked 
3,1,10,1=15. The Roman calendar says 16th, but 
Colamella says the 15th. 

The swallow appears the 23rd. 

; Represented by a bird in the middle column, 

The beginning of spring? See table of seasons, C. 

Represented by the figure of Anubis, with a tablet, date 
not perfect. 


MARCH. 


The sun begins to enter the sign Aries the 18th. 
Represented by a female figure with a tablet, in which 
is marked in nombers 6, 6,4+1,1=18, A bird of 
passage appears in the middle column. 
The sun enters Aries on the 25th. 
Represented by a female figure without a tablet, stand- 
ing above the date 5, 5, 5, 10=25 and 5, 5, 5,5, 6 = 
25, in the middle column. 
The beginning of spring. See table of seasons 
under 
Represented by the figure of Harpoorates sitting on a 
flower in a boat, having a tablet marked 12th day, with 
a head, to express. commencement, 


Digitized by Google 


264 


Day of the 
No. Month. 


29 


3] 


32 


37 


40 


14 


17 


11 


11 


APPENDIX. 


The figure of Aries and middle of spring. 
Represented by the figure of Aries, or the Ram, sur- 
rounded by 45 stars, to denote, that when the sun en- 
ters that sign, itis the middle of spring, that is, 45 days 
from the commencement of that season on the 9th of 
February ; therefore the middle of spring is the 25th 
March. See table of seasons under B. 

The middle of spring, the 25th March. 

Represented by the figure of Anubis. 

Full moon the 14th. 

Represented on the head of Harpocrates. The tablet 
marks 4, 10 =14, or 6 and 8=14, 

The festival, second Equiria, upon the Tiber? 
Represented by the figure of a man with a staff: the 
date in the middle column is 8, 6 =14. 

The Agonalia, and Milvius sets, the 17th. 
Represented by the animals for sacrifice tied together, 
surmounted by the bird Milvius : the date underneath is 
8, 9=17. 

The end of March, represented by a boundary pil- 

lar, or barrier. 


APRIL. 


The sun enters the sign Taurus the 24th. 
adept by a female and tablet, marked 8, 4, 4, 
—24. : 
The sun enters the sign on the 19th, by the Roman 
calendar. 
Represented by a female figure—the date in the tablet 
ce Columelia says the sun enters the sign the 
17th. 
The sun enters the sign the 24th. 
Represented by the figare of a man in a boat, with a 
tablet expressing 8, 13, 2, 21 =24. 
‘The sun enters the sign, and middle of spring the 
24th. See table of seasons under D. 
Represented by the united figure of the sun and Anubis : 
the tablet illegible, but underneath, in the middle column, 
is the usual figare, marking the ingress of the sun into 
the sign, where also the date is 4, 8, 8, 4=24. It 
seems to have been a festival of four days, by the stars 
on the Bull’s tail. 
The beginning of spring on the 11th April. See 
table of seasons under A. 
The numbers in the middle column, being 7 and 4=11, 
with the figare of a man standing, which signifies com- 
mencement. 
Full moon on the 11th. 
_ Represented on the shoulders of the Bull. 
‘The commencement of the Floralia. 
Represented by the numbers in the middle column over 
the head of the figure in the boat: the nambers are 9, 
8, 10, 1=28, and six stars, 3 behind and 3 before. 
The figure scems to point by his tablet the number of 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX 265 


No, {Day of ae 
. lonth. 
x daysi in the month =30, or else a festival on that day, to 
. continue four days. 
AL The Floralia, for six days. . 

Represented by the figure of a man holding a serpent, 
with three stars before the serpent, and three after it, 
and with a flower under his right feot. The serpent 
denotes the commencement of the year with the month 
of May. 

30 |The end of April, marked by the figure of a man’ 


sitting, as a pause or rest. 
May. 


42 1 |The commencement of the year (mercantile) on this 
; day. 
: Represented by the figure of a serpent, held in the hand 
of No. 41. 
83. |The last day of the Floralia. 
Marked by the figure 8, under the last three stars, 
43 The sun enters the sign. 
Represented, as asual, by a female figure, buthertable _ 
‘ not legible. 
44 15 |The birth of Mercury. 
Represented by a figure with a cap en: the tablet states 
the date as 8, :8—l—15, and the figure has the same 
number of stars about it. 
45 19 |The sun enters the sign on the 19th. 
Represented by a female figure, as usual, her tablet 
marking 9, 9, 1 =19th day. 


46 An attendant on figure 48. 
47 24 |Midsummer day, the 24th. See table of seasons, 
under A. 


Represented by a female Anubis in a boat, with a small 
serpent on her head, to denote that it is a particuler 
stated time of the year for settling accounts, making 
contracts, &c. &o. Her tablet not legible, but over her 
ssi in the middle column are the numbers, 4, 5,5, 5, § 


48 The sign 5 Gems or the Twins. 

Represented by two figures; one a male Anubis, with 
a feather in his cap ; the other a female Anubis, holding 
each other by the hand, and having a number of stars 
between and about them, equal to 24, to denote that the 
sun is in Gemini on that day. The female Anubis is 
the same with the one in the boat, No. 47, representing 
Midsummer day. 


26 |New moon. 
Represented on the head of the female Anubis, No. 48, 

49 An attendant on the female Anubis No. 48, the same 
as No. 46 is an attendant on the male figure 48 : 
they appear to have no other meaning. 

50 It is uncertain to what this figure refers, neither the 
number above its head in the middle column, nor 
the remains of his tablet being sufficiently legible. 

The end of May, marked by a man sitting, as usual, 
MM 


Digitized by Google 


266 


51 


52 


65 


57 


Day of the 
No. Month. 


25 


25 


APPENDIX. 


JUNE. 


The sun enters the sign Cancer the 19th and 25th. 
Represented by a figure in a boat, the numbers in the 
tablet not very legible. Underneath in the middle co- 
lump are the marks representing the sun and moon’s in- 
gress into the sign at the same time, consequently a con- 
junction, on the 25th of Jane, 

The sun in Cancer. 

Marked by the figure of a hawk or eagle, elevated on 
a perch, to denote that it has attained the highest point 
in its course. 

New moon. 

Represented by. the figure of a man with the head of an 
Ibis in a boat: the date in his tablet imperfect, but the 
middle calamn marks 25. The eagle, No, 52, and this 
are in a live. 


The end of June, marked by the figure of a leg. 
QUINTILIS, OR JULY. 


The middle of Capricorn sets. 
Represented by .the figure of a couchant goat, very ill 
drawn, ina boat. The six stars or days marked, pro- 
bably allude to other festivals, the days for which are 
marked under the boat; as the Poplifagium on the 5th, 
the Ladi Apollinares on the 6th, the Non Caprotine 
an the 7th, &c. 

The new moon and sun enter Leo. 
Represented by the figure of a man with a hawk’s head 
surmounted by a figure of the moon: the tablet not very 
plain, but the middle column marks 10, 6, 5, 4225, 
and again 10, 7,8=26. 

The middle of Aquarius sets. 
Represented by the figure of Aquarius in a boat: the 

- date marked is in two rows of figures thus, 5, 5,1, 1, 

1,1, 3, 8=25. There is another figure in the same 
boat, to represent the entire setting of Aquarius on the 
18th of the following month: the date is 8, 1, 4-18, 
or 18th of August. See the circular calendar, where 
the figure of Aquarias is given under Leo, along with 
that of Diana, the 13th of August. 

Diana, but here misplaced, being marked in the 

middle column the 13th of August. 

Represented by three figures of that goddess, two of 
them seated, with the moon on their heads ; but in con- 
sequence of their being here misplaced, the numbers on 
their tablets were entirely erased: their proper place 
being under the hind part of Leo, at or behind No. 62, 
which is the 18th of August, the day sacred to Diana, 
Aquarius, most probadly, had been placed under the hiud 
part af Leo, but erased from thence, to place it where 
it now stands ; and in the removal of Aquarigs, that of 
Diana took place, by mistake. The date in the middle 
column between Aquarius and Diana, is the 13th of 
August, thus: first a bird, implyieg month, or time; 
then an oval; 5, which with three units annexed, make 
8, the number of the month. Within the aval is the 


Digitized by Google 


" APPENDIX. 267 


Day of the 
y No. . Month. 


date 12 and 1 united, to express that it is the 18th day. 
of the 8th month, reckoning from January as the first. : 


58 ' [This is the same with No. 62, here misplaced, along 
with Diana. 
59 Thesun enters Leo the 20th, by the Roman calendar, 


Represented by a female figure as usual, standing at or 
near the head of the serpent Hydra: the numbets in her 
tablet not legible. ; 
60 The sun and moon enter Leo. 
Represented by a figure of the sun, and moon on its 
head. This is the same with No.55 above given, and 
here again repeated, which shows that there is consider- 
able confusion in this part of the calendar. The date is 
25th July as before, viz. 9, 1, 5, 10=25. é 
The end of July marked by a pair of legs. 


SEXTILIs, OR AUGUST. 


G1 4 |The middle of Leo rises. 
Represented by the figure of Leo, having his left fore 
paw nearly over the date 4. ~ 
62 13 |The feast of servant maids and slaves, and the 
Ides of August. 
Represented by a female in a boat, with a serpent: the 
latter seems to express that this is some particular period 
in the year, with the nature of which I am not ac- 
quainted. The Ides are expressed by the figure of a 
head in the middle column: the date marked in the ta- 
blet is 8, 1, 4=213th of August. 
This is the place where the figures of Diana, No. 57, 
should come in. 
63 24 |The beginning of Autumn. See table of seasons, 
under C. 
Represented by the figure of a man ina boat, the tablet 
not legible ; and the figure of a small head in the middle 
column, to denote commencement. A three days’ festi- 
val. 
64 The sun enters Virgo the 24th. 
Represented by a figure in a boat, having a pot on his 
head : the tablet date is 8, 8, 8, 5 5 =24. A three days’ 
festival. 
65 The sun enters the sign Virgo the 20th. 
Represented by a female, the numbers on whose tablet 
are imperfect: but under her feet in the middle columa 
is marked 8, 12 = 20, 
66 The sun enters the sign the 24th. 
Represented by a female figure, her tablet expressing 
the following numbers, viz. 4,7, 5,8=24: the same 
expressed differently by the numbers under his feet, 
as 6, 8, 6, 4=24. 
The figure of Virgo requires no explanation. 
The sun enters Virgo the 20th. 
Represented by a figure in the boat, nearly under Virgo. 
The tablet numbers incomplete, but in the Circular Ca= 
lendar, the same is marked 10, 1,9=20. 


83 


Digitized by Google 


268 APPENDIX. 


Day of the 
No. fonth, 


69 The commencement of the month Thoth, the first 


of the Egyptian year. 
Represented by @ figare of the Anubis kind, with a 
crescent and a star on its head, and a torch at his fore- 
most foot, to denote that it commences the year. Un- 
der the same foot are marked in the middle colamn 
three tens, to denote that the month contains 30 days : 
near which, and directly under a bird with a dog’s head, is 
the figure of a small head, to signify commencement; and 
under the head is a tablet over the boat, in which the date 
is inserted, viz. 10, 10, 9 =29, or the 29th of August. 
70 The commencement of Thoth 
Is again represented by the figure of a bird with a dog’s 
head, or time, united to Anubis. tis directly over the 
smal] head in the middle column, and the tablet over the 
boat, as already mentioned. : 
71 30 | First quarter of the moon the 30th. 

Represented on the head of the figure in the boat, which 

* has a star between it and the tablet, to express that the 
day is one day later than that date, making the first quar- 
ter onthe 30th. It has also two stars after it, to denote 
that two days after the first quarter is the first of Sep- 
tember, marked iu the middle column by the figure of 
a small head. 


SEPTEMBER. 


1 |The beginning of the month. 
Marked by a small head in the middle column, as men- 
tioned sbove. 
72 The sun enters the sign Libra the 24th. 
Represented by a female as usual. The tablet date is 
; 8,4,4,4,4—24, 
73 The sun enters the sign Libra the 19th. 
Represented by a female as usual. The tablet date is 
8, 4, 3,3, 1=19. - 
714 The sun in Libra the 24th. 
Represented by the figure of the balance and Harpo- 
crates under it, within the figure, which usually marke 
ingress of the sun, The date is repeated in the middle 
column in different numbers and characters. 
75 21 |New moon the 21st. 
Represented by the moon being placed on the head of 
a man in a boat below the balance. The tablet date is 
20, 1=2Ist day. 
716 This figure marks the entrance of the sun into the 
sign the 24th. 
The tablet is 20, 4 =the 24th day. 
77 29 = |First quarter of the moon the 29th. 
Represented by a circle with a female within it, and the 
bird symbol of the moon standing on top of it. The 
numbers in the middle column are here erased, as if some 
mistake had arisen ; but from the numbers in the tablet 
below =24, this most be the 29th of the month. 
This ends September. The usual mark for termina- 


tion is erased. 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 269 


Day of the 
‘onth. 


OcTOBER. 


11 (The beginning of winter. 

Represented by the figure of Anubis; but the dates 
are all erased from the middle column, and therefore we 
must be guided by those in the boats below. 

The sun enters Scorpio. 
Represented by the figure of a female as usual; but 
there is no tablet nor date to refer to. 

13 |Last quarter of the moon the 18th. 

Represented by a figure in the boat, having the moon 
on its head. The tablet date is 8, 1, 8, 1 =13. 

The sun enters the sign the 20th. 
Represented by a figure of the Anubis kind, under whose 
tail is the date 1, 12,5, 1, 1=20. 

21 |New moon the 21st. 

Represented by the moon being placed on the top of a 
support, held by a figure in the boat. This is a figare 
of the sun iu autumn, pointing out the season for thresh- 
ing the corn, of which more may be seen in the Cireu- 
lar Calendar. 
The figure of Scorpio, which requires no further 
explanation. : 

28 |The commencement of the Egyptian month Athyr. 
Represented by the figure of a bird, to denote the sun’s 
entrance into the month Athyr; under which, in the 
middle column is the figure of a small head. 

The same otherwise. 
Represented by the figure of a wolf, with a small ser- 
pent and a torch, to express that it was the commence- 
ment of the year at some former period. The date 
marked in the middle column is 20, 4, 4=28, 
Represents a festival for five days, by the number of 
stars. : 
The hand implies two, and the head one, making up the 
number three, to denote that Athyr was the third month 
of the Egyptian year. The three posts erected in the 
boat also denote the same. 


NovEMBER. 


6 {Full moon and eclipse. 

Represented by the figure of the moon on a boat, with 
Anubis on the disc. The date marked in the middle 
column is 5, and in the tablet is 3; 1, 1 =5, with a head 
to express commencement, and an eye and a bird above, 
as additional symbols of the moon. Some birds of pas- 
sage appear also in the middle column, ready to depart, 
and one in the act of flying; but we know not their 
bames. 

The sun enters the sign Saggitarius the 24th. 
Represented by a female figure and tablet, marked 4, 
12, 4, 4=24. 

The sun enters the sign the 18th. 
Represented by a female figure and tablet, marked 8, 5, 
518. 


Digitized by Google 


270 APPENDIK,: 


Day of the 
No. Month. 


80 The sun enters the sign the 24th. 
Represented by a figure of the sun in a boat, with a 
tablet marked in two rows 6, 5, 1 and 4, 6,1, 1 =24. 
91 ‘The sun enters the sign the 18th. 
Represented by the figure of Saggitarius, with the mark 
of ingress into the sign.underneath, and the figures 8, 
10=18. 

Thus we may perceive how often the same thing is 
repeated, as if with a view to prevent mistake, er to 
make it more olear or better understood to different per- 
sons, who might anderstand one mode, and not another. 

é The bird on the hind part of Sagittary represents the 
new moon on the 19th ; and the Anubis anited with Sa- 
gittary, marks the beginning of winter. See seasons, 
ander C. 

92 New moon the 19th. 
Represented by the figure of the moon, placed on the 
head of the symbol of the san in a boat. The tablet 
marks—1,20=19th. Here we have an instance of the 

-  pomber, when preceded by an unit, being diminished 

in value, as in the Roman method. 

93 The sun enters the sign the 24th. 
Represented by a female figure, pointing to the date in 
the middle column 20 and 4 = 24, which differs from the 
others alreedy mentioned, this being a bird =20, and a 
broken chain with four links =24 the whole. 


94 The horns of the Bull set the 20th. 


Represented by the figure of a bull on one leg, No. 95, 

opposed by a figure of the sun, No. 94, holding a dart 
. against one of the horns, as it were to stay their setting. 

96 Uncertain — but a festival of two days. 

Represented by a figure in a boat, having a small serpent 

on its head, denoting therefore some particular day. 

The tablet not complete, without which it cannot be 

read. 


The end of November marked by a man sitting. 


DECEMBER. 


97 12 |The Agonalia for three days, the 11th, 12th and 13th. 


and the moon in her last quarter the 12th. 
Represented by the figure of a man in a boat, with the 
head off, and its place sepplied by the figare of the 
moon. The festival lasts three days, as marked by the 
three stars. The date, as expressed in the tablet, is 5, 
4, 312th day. 
98 The beginning of winter. See table of seasons, 
under D. 
Represented by a female Anubis, generally called Neph- 
the, and mother of Anabis ; bat this distinction is not 
of the slightest consequence, for any of the family an- 
swers the same purpose to represent time. She holds 
the bull, No. 95, by a chain, the number of links of 
which express the day of the month, with a star at the 
end of it. Properly drawn, it should contain 12 links, 
which with the star denotes the 12th day. 


Digitized by Google 


- -lw aman cnet ee 2 


tl, Clark seule 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 271 


No. |Da As 
onth, . 

99 | 18 |The sun enters Capricora the 18th. 
Represented by a female figare with a tablet, the date 
marked in which is 4, 14—18th day. The 14 isa com- 

- pound number, made up of 6,1,5, 1, 1 +14. 
100 | 25 (|The winter solstice the 25th. 
Represented by the figure of Capricorn, with the sun, 
ander the symbol of the eagle on the top of its horns, 
to denote that it has attained its utmost limit in its 
course. The date marked underneath is 6, 6, 6,6, 1 = 


? 25th day. ; 
101 _ |The sun enters the sign the 25th. 
Represented by a figure, symbol of the san, in a boat: 
tablet marked 25th. 
102 The same. 


Represented by the figure, of a female, the tablet nam- 

hers not Jegible ; but she points to the date in the mid- 

dle column, which is 10, 8, 3, 4=25th day. : 
103 The end of December, and of the year.: 


Represented by a sitting figure, as the usual mark of 
end, termination, cessation, &c. 


We shall now proceed to the Circular Calendar, which, from 
ae irregular manner in which it has been drawn and sculptured, 
t is very difficult to arrange in proper order, potwithatanding the | 
ssistance we derive from the above; and in all probability, with 


Il our care, errors in this respect will escape us, as we have but 
»w dates to guide us in the labyrinth. 


Translation of the Circular Calendar, Plate VIII. with 
Explanatory Remarks. 


DaTs THE YEAR 708 oF RoME. Month January. 
Represented by the outer circular space, in a line with 
Nos. 1, 2, and 8, and having an unit with a small erect 
serpent above the last figure of the date, 8, to denote 
it is the first point or commencement of the year. 


1 


a} 1 |Conjunction of the sun and moon at midnight. 
$i. 


Represented by the figures No. 1; symbol of the moon, 
No. 2, symbol of the sun, and No. 3, the owl, symbol 
of night, all in a straight line ; the figdres far the sun 
and moon being each marked with a star and an unit 
above it, to represent the first day of the year, the first 
of the month, and the first of the new moon. The new 
moon is also indicated by the representation of a pair 
of eyes, near the date in the outer circular space. 

4 8 Sacrifices to Janus. ; : 
Represented by the figure of a man, holding the victim 
by one hand, and a club in the other, the same as.No. 7 
in the caleudar of. the portico, Pl. yii. 


Digitized by Google 


272 


No. [D8 ot oe 
6 
6 
vi 15 
8 
9 
10 17 
11 
12. 22 
13 24 
14 25 
15 30 
16 
17 9 
18 

13 


19 


APPENDIX. 


9 |The Agonalia. 


Represented by the figure of a horse with haman feet, 
without a head. “This is the same as No. 8. in PI. vii- 
differently exhibited. . 
The bird Ibis, symbol of the moon, represented in 
No. 7. 

Full moon the 15th. 

Represented by an oval, enclosing the figures of eight 
persons kneeling with their hands behind their backs, in 
allusion perhaps to some old legendary tale respecting 
the cause of the spots on the moon’s face or disc. The 
date above it is—1, 10, 6=15, the unit being negative 
by position. 

A fish over the full moon No. 7. 

Supposed to be also a symbol of the moon: but see 
; under No. 16. ; 
A fish in the outer circular space. 
Supposed a symbol of the moon, and to refer to either - 
No.7 or No. 12. See under No. 16. : ‘ 
The sun in Aquarius—figure of Aquarius. 
The Ibis, symbol of the moon, on the head of fi- 
gure No. 12. 

Last quarter of the moon the 22nd. 

Represented by the figure of a sheep, with the moon on 
its head. . : 

The Sun in Aquarius. 
Hepcannlt by a figure next to Aquarius—the date not 
legible. 

The middle of winter. See table of seasons, under D. 
Represented by a figure of Anubis, the date 12, 3, 10 
=25. 

Fidicula, the harp, sets. 

Represented by a man with a harp in his hands. 

A fish, aymbol of the moon? 

o. 8, 9, and 16, from their situations, appear as sym- 
bols of the moon. Ovid, in his Fasti, says, the Dolphin 
rose the 9th January, and set the fourth February ; but 
these do not agree with the times and positions given: 
therefore I am rather disposed to think them symbols 
of the Moon, like the Ibis, Nos. 6 and 11. 


FEBRUARY. 
The beginning of spring. 
Represented by an inverted flower under No. 17. 
The figure of Pisces, which requires no explana- 
tion. , 
To Jupiter Ammon and Faunus. See Cal. Portico, 
No. 21. 
; Represented by a figure on a pedestal having four rams’ 
heads, to denote the sun in Aries, and next to it the 
figure of Faunus seated: over the heads of Jupiter 
Ammon is placed the moon, to denote its being then fall. 
To the left of the moon, and nearly over the head of Fan- 
nus, are two birds, with a star to the left of them : these 


Digitized by Google 


Day of the 
No. Month. 


20 


21 


22 


23 


25 


26 


16 


12 


14 


17 


APPENDIX. 273 


- signify forty days that the festival had deviated or fallex 
back at the time of the Jalian correction from Aries, the 
position at the time of instituting the festival : therefore 
forty days being reckoned from Aries, or the 25th March, 
gave the 13th of February, to which it was fixed for the 
future. The cause of its falling back, was owing to 

- the Egyptian year being one day deficient in every four 
years: hence, 40 x4=160, the number of years then 
elapsed since the festival coincided with Aries ; and this 
was the antiquity of that festival at the time of the Ju- 
lian correction. 

A little to the right of the figure of the moon, over 
the head of Jupiter Ammon, are four birds more, with 
a star: these signify eighty days, each bird being 20, 
and relate to the Julian correction already explained ; 
being the 79 days nominally counted from the 15th of 
October to the 1st of January, both included, and one 
day more for February, the year being bissextile, make 
80, the number here marked. 

Full moon the 13th. See Cal. Portico, No. 22. 
Represented by the figure of the moon, with that of a 
female holding a hog, or some such animal by the tail, 
on the moon’s disc, in allusion to some legendary tales 
respecting the moon’s spots. In the other calendar the 
figure is a male holding a hog by the tail, date 13th. 

The sun in Pisces the 16th. 

Represented by a cap, 12, and 4 stuck into it=16, 
marked in the circular margin. 

The sun in Pisces the 24th. ; 

Marked in the circular margin by 5, 5,5, 4, 2, 8 =24th. 


Marcu. 


The sun in Aries the 17th, according to Colu- 
mella. The Roman calendar says the 18th. — 
Represented by the figure, symbol of the sun, with the 
numbers 8, 9 over his head: the number is compound, 
and made up of 8, 4, 1, 1, 1,1, 1, in form of a globe. 

The beginning of spring. See table of seasons 

under D. ; 
Represented by Harpocrates sitting on a flower, and two 
figures of Anubis above him. The numbers appear in- 
complete. 

Full moon the 14th. 

Represented by the figure of the moon, with an eye in 
the centre. 

The Agonalia, and Milvius sets the 17th. 
Represented by the victims tied together, surmounted 
by the bird Milvius. 

The constellation Aries sets ? 
Represented by a figure over the heads of the Anubises, 
resembling a sheep: but as a sheep is a symbol of the 
moon, it may represent the last quarter of the moon, 
placed on the head of the ram, No. 27. 

The quadriennium of Julius Cesar. 

Represented by four small serpents erect on their tails 
- on a square pedestal, eseh of which signify $360; and 


NWN 


Digitized by Google 


274 


No. Day of the 


27 


29 


31 


‘onth, 


18 


11 


16 


‘APPENDIX. 


over the head of each is g small circle, which stands 
for 5, with a star over each, to represent 365 days : but 
over the head of the first serpent to the right, there is 
an additional star, to denote that the first year of thé 
four, or of the Julian correction, was a leap year, and 
contained 366 days. 

The sun enters Aries the 24th. 

Represented by the number in the circular margin, being 
6, 8, 10. 

The sun enters the sign the 18th. 

Represented by the numbers in the margin, bat not 
complete. : 

The vernal equinox. 

Represented by the figure of aram’s head and neck in 
a boat. The numbers below are 5, 5, 5, 9=24th: 
the 9 is compound. Over the head, between the horns, 
is the symbol of the moon, to denote the third quarter, 
with three stars to the right, to denote that the time is 
three days later than the entrance of the sun into Aries 
on the 18th, or else three days earlier than his entrance 
on the 24th. Both days may be seen in the Roman 
Calendar. 

The middle of Spring. See table of seasons under B. 
Represented by a figure of Anubis seated on its legs, 
having four small serpents over its head, to denote the 
succession of four years, and seven stars before him, to 
imply that the middle of spring is seven days after the 
entrance of the san into Aries, which, according to the 
Romau Calendar, was the 18th. 

The end of March, marked by a man sitting in the 


circular margin. 
APRIL, 


Full moon the 11th. 
Represented under the figure of a boar or bog, being 
one of those figures marked sometimes on the moon's 
diso, as in No. 22, Calendar of the Portico. The disc is 
not always necessary to identify the moon, as will be 
seen hereafter in another instance, in which it dispensed 
with ; but the figure of a boar here may also be intended 
to represent the Hyades, which the Romans denominated 
Sus, Sucula. In the Calendar of the Portico, pl. vii. the 
full moon is placed on the ball’s shoulders. See No. $9. 

The sign Taurus. 
Represented by the figure of the ball. The sun enters 
it the 19th, according to the Roman calendar: Cola- 
mella says the 17th. 

The Hyades set; that is, begin to set. 
Represented by the date, 6, 10, over the stars. 

The Hyades hide themselves in the evening. Colu- 

mella. 

Represented by the date, 8, 10, a part of which only is 
legible. 

Middle of spring, the latest. See table of seagons 

under D. 

Represented by the figures of two men apparently alike, 


Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 3275 


No. Dy ace 
with a date marked underneath them, made up in the 
form of a cross, consisting of 12, 12, 1—25. Under 
are various birds of passage marked, with which J am 
not acquainted : the spotted one seems to denote the 
: new moon. ; 
32 28 |Time of the commencement of the Floralia for 
: six days. 
Represented by the same figure as in the Calendar of 
the Portico, No. 41, which see. Here the bird seems 
to represent the new moon on the 26th. 
May. 
. 33 1 [The first of May, and commencement of the old 
mercantile year. 
Represented by the figure of a long serpent in folds, 
placed on a pedestal, and coronated. 
34 15 |The birth of Mercury. 
Represented by the same figure as in the Calendar of the 
Portico, No. 44, but no date: it has a bird after it, 
35 The Twins. 
Represented by the figures of two men exactly alike, 
behind No. 32. As there is no date, they require no 
further explanation here. 
36 21 |The Agonalia of Janus. 
Represented by the hind leg of the victim, with some 
other victims tied to it. 
JUNE. 


37 25 {|The summer solstice. 

Represented hy the figure of an eagle perched on a 
stand, to denote that the sun is at its utmost limit in its 
course. This is also midsummer by the table of seasons 
under B. : : 

38 The sun enters the sign the 25th. 

Represented by the figare of the sun, with a date7, 8 
10=25. In the marginal space, a little farther on, is 
marked a conjunction of the sun and moon at the sum- 
mer solstice. . 

In this part of the calendar the figures are intermixed 
with each other, in such a manner, as to make it difficult 
to distinguish them with sufficient accuracy. 

39 The sign Cancer. 

Represented by the figure of Cancer; but from the 
crowded manner in which the figures are placed, it 
seems to be out of its proper situation. 

40 The sun enters Cancer, emppaved the 20th. 
Represented by a figure of the sun, or man with a hawk’s 
head, ander Cancer, but no date, 

41 The cosmical rising of Sirius. 

This is supposed to be represented by a small Anabis, 
or dog, over the back of Leo, 


QUINTILIS, OR JULY. 


42 6 he Twins entirely set; and the middle of Cancer sets, 
: Represented by two small figures, holding each other 
by the hand, near the right claw of the Crab. 


7 


Digitized by Google 


276 


No. a of the 


43 


44 


47 


49 


50 


61 


52 


53 


55 


56 


‘onth. 
8 


13 


APPENDIX. 


The middle of Capricorn sets. Roman Calendar. 
Columella. 
Represented by the figure of a goat, in a boat. The 
figure is very ill drawn, but it can be intended for no 
other than Capricorn. 

The sun enters Leo the 25th. 

Represented by the figere or symbol of the sun, the 
-date 15, 10 25. i 

The sun enters Leo the 20th. 

Represented by the figure of a man, with the date 6, 
4,10—20. 

Leo and the Hydra begin to rise cosmically. 
Represented by the figure of Leo, with Hydra under 
him. 

The heliacal rising of Sirius. 

Supposed to be represented by the figure of a small 
Anubis, or dog, standing on the tail of Leo. 


SExTILIS, oR AUGUST. 


The sun enters Virgo the 24th. 
Represented by the figure of the sun, with the date 6, 5, 
4, 9=—24 ; and underneath in the circular margin 5, 5, 
5,9=24: the 9 is compound, and made up of 4, 1,1 
1,1,1=9. The three stars imply that it ts a festival 
of as many days. 

Sacred to Diana. 
Represented by the figure of Diana, with a bow and 
arrow in her hands. Under her is another figure of 
Diana, with a crescent on her head, and the date 5, 8, 
=13th day. 

Aquarius entirely sets, 

' Represented by the figure of Aquarius, with a waterpot 

in each hand. 

The Sun enters Virgo the 24th. 
Represented by the figure of the sun, date 20, 4-24 = 
a festival of three days. The date is also marked in 
the circular margin by 8, 8, 8=24, and repeated by 

._ 3 other 8’s, differently made from the first. 

The sun enters Virgo the 20th. 
Represented by the figure of a man, date 10, 1, 3,3,3 = 
20th day. He points to three stars, to show that it is 
a festival of three days. 

Sacred to Isis and Orus. 
Represented by the figure of Isis, with the infant Orus 
standing in her lap. 

Middle of the Crow sets. 
Represented by the figure of a crow above the head of 
Orus, and standing on the serpent Hydra. 


. |The sun enters Virgo. 


Represented by a figure of a man, above the ear of 
corn in the hand of Virgo. No date is marked, unless 
in the circular margin, where they are incomplete. 

The sign Virgo. 
Represented by the figure of Virgo, and the spike of 
ripe corn in her hand. 


Digitized by Google 


No. |Day of the 


57 


58 


59 


60 


61 


62 


63 


65 


67 


Month. 
23 


24 


30 


21 


29 


APPENDIX. 277 


New moon the 23rd. 
Represented by the figure of the sun, with the moon on 
his head, and pointing to five stars, to represent so many 
days’ festival. The date near the figure is three units, 
which added to 20, the date of the figure next before it, 
makes 23. The same is marked in the oircalar margin 
by a bird, 20, and three units ander a star —23rd day. 

The beginning of Autumn. See table of seasons 

under C. 

Represented by the figure of Anubis, with a new moon 
on his head, which, as being one day later than the day 
of new moon, he points to six days, which is the former 
five, and one day more. 

The commencement of the Egyptian month Thoth, 

and of the Egyptian year. 
Represented by the ba of Thoth, with a scythe in his 
hands. The crescent on his head implies commencement 
of the year, which may also be seen in the figure No. 3, 
Calendar of the Portico. The date underneath is 20, 4, 
5 =29. 

The first quarter of the moon. 
Represented by a figure holding a support in his hands, 
on which rests an animal like a sheep, and a bird on the 
top of it, both symbols of the moon, and the commence- 
ment of harvest. 

The commencement of harvest. 
This is represented by a figure above the last, having a 
cutting instrument in his hand ; and the same is also ex- 
pressed by the scythe in the hands of the figure repre- 
senting Thoth: so that the corn ia the hand of Virgo 
was, on the 29th of August, supposed to be sufficiently 
ripe for cutting. 

The moon in her first quarter. 
Represented by the figure of Anubis, with the moon on 
its head. 


SEPTEMBER. 


Departure of the swallows. 
Represented by the figure of a bird with expanded. 
wings: date 8th, 


-lThe constellation Pisces sets in the morning. Co- 


lumella. 
Represented by the usual figure of wavy lines. 
Leo entirely sets. 
Represented by the figure of Leo, under the balance. 
The sign Libra, or the Balance. 
Represented by the figure of the balance, with Har- 
pocrates and the wolf, symbols of the sun and the au- 
tumnal equinox. 
The sun enters the sign the 24th. 
Represented by.a man with the date 20, 4 =24th day. 
The moon in her first quarter. 


Represented by the moon on the head of the sun, sitting 
at the end of the balance. 


Digitized by Google 


VW 


72 


73 


74 


77 


78 


79 


| 24 


APPENDIX. 


OcTOBER. 


The cosmical setting of Sirius. 
Represented by the figure of a small Anubis, or dog, 
holding the tail of No. 65. 
‘The moon in her last quarter. 
Represented by the moon placed on the head of the 
sun noder the last figure. 
The swallows entirely disappear. 
by the figure of a bird inthe circular mar- 
giv, with wings expanded ; the figure of a man sitting 
before it, signifying end of appearance. 
New moon, indicated by a ig of eyes in the outer 
circular space, nearly under No. 73. 
The sun in Scorpio the 24th. 
Represented by « figure of a man, with a flail on one 
shoulder and a whip on the other: these appendages 
imply that it is now time to thresh the corn that has 
been eat: the whip is to drive the bullocks that tread 
out the grain, It is properly a figure of the sun in 
autumn. 
The middle of Autumn the 25th. 
Represented by the compound date in the broad circu- 
lar space beneath, made up of 1, 5, 8, 8, 3 =25th. 
The first day of the Egyptian month Athyr, and 
first quarter of the moon. 
presented by the head of a wolf on a pedestal, sur- 
mounted by a figure of the moon. 
e same thing. 
Represented by the figure of a wolf near the centre of 
the plate, with a cutting or harvest instrument under 
his feet, to denote that harvest is entirely over. 
The sign Scorpio. 
Represented by the figare of Scorpio, and requires no 
further explanation. ; 


21 


25 


28 


NOVEMBER. 


Full moon. 
Represented by the figure of Anubis ina boat. This 
figure in the Calendar of the Portico is surrounded 
with the moon’s disco, (see No. 87,) which shows that 
the moon’s disc is not always necessary to represent the 
moon’s phases, 
The sign Sagittarius. The sun enters it the 18th, 
and new moon the 19th. 
Represented by the figure of Sagittarius, with the bird 
Ibis, a symbol of the moon, on his back. 
The middle of winter. See table of seasons 
under C, 
Represeated by the figere of Anubis. 
Midwinter the 24th. See table of seasons under C. 
Represented by another figure of Anubis, next the last. 
The sun enters Sagittarius the 24th. 
Represented by a figure of the sun, next the last. 


24 


Digitized by Google 


“APPENDIX: . 279 


‘Day of the 
No. Month. 


82 29 |The Twins begin to rise in the evening. 
Represented by the figures of two men near each other, 
and exactly alike, at the back of Sagittarius. 
DECEMBER. 


83 12 |The Agonalia, and last quarter of the moon. 
Represented by a figure of a man, with the moon on his 
shoulders, in place of his head. 

84 25 |The winter solstice. 

Represented by, the figure of Capricorn. 

85 The sun enters the sign. 

: Represented by the figure of the sun, under the last. 

86 27 «(|The first quarter of the moon. 

Represented by the — of a sheep, with the moon on 
its head. 


This terminates the Cireular Calendar; but at the corners of 
the ceiling of the apartment which contains it, there is given either 
a supplementary calendar, or rather one of a later date; for the 
year to which it seems to refer, if I am not mistaken, is 747 of 
Rome, or 39 years later than those I have just explained. It is, 
however, on so small a scale, and the numbers so imperfect and 
indistinct, that it would be no easy matter to make it out. This, 
however, may be no great loss, as in all probability it is similar 
to those given; for it begins the rising of Lyra on the 5th of 
January, and the entrance of the sun into Aquarius on the 17th, 
&c. Ihave therefore omitted it in the plate. 

Having adverted to the circumstance of the sun entering the 
same sign twice in every month, which to some may appear extra- 
ordinary, as inconsistent with real facts, I shall now give the 
explanation which I promised, because I do not find that any of 
the Roman writers, whose works have come into my hands, have 
given the slightest intimation of the cause, though they mention 
the fact, and expressed it in the Roman calendar in those months 
in which the solstices and equinoxes fall. 

The cause, however, of this seeming inconsistency is simple, 
and founded on an ancient custom, that existed long before the 
time of Julius Cesar. It is this: —In early times, the months and 
the signs coincided, and were therefore considered the same ; 
and though in process of time they deviated, yet custom still 
held them the same, and no alteration was made on that account: 
so that if the solstice happened to fall on the 8th, 10th, 12th, or 
16th day of the month, according to the quantity of deviation, it 


Digitized by Google 


280 APPENDIX. 


would be stated as being in the 8th, 10th, 12th, or 15th degree of 
the sign, by reason that the month and sign were considered as 
synonymous, or the same: and this practice prevailed down to the 
time of the Julian correction, which was the cause of the sun 
appearing to enter the sign twice in the month; once according 
to the ancient method, the other according to the new, or rather 
Chaldean, as it appears to have been called. In order to show 
this more clearly, let us carry back the calculation to the old year 
of Numa, and see how they will then stand. I have stated above, 
that the nominal difference between the old and new style was '79 
days, which made the 15th of October to be called the 1st Janu- 
ary. Now by the Roman calendar, Julian style, the sun is said 
to enter the sign Aquarius on the 16th of January. On what day,’ 
therefore, of the old year of Numa did this fall? If the 16th of 
October be the 1st of January, then the 16th of January must be 
the 30th of October, the day on which the sun was supposed to 
enter the sign in the old year. Again, as the sun entered the sign 
on the 18th of December by the Roman calendar, on what day of 
the month did that fall in the old year? From the 18th of Decem- 
ber to the 1st of January. is 14 days: count these back from the 
15th of October, exclusive of that day, because already reckoned, 
and it will carry you to the 1st of October, the day on which the 
sun was supposed to enter the sign by the old method. Thus, I 
think, I have given sufficient proof that the months and the signs 
were considered the same in ancient times. But to proceed 
farther :— the winter solstice fell on the 25th of December, ac- 
cording to the calendar of Julius Cesar, which is the 8th day after 
the 18th of December, both inclusive ; but the 18th of December 
T have shown to have been the 1st of October, consequently the 
25th must be the 8th of October, the day on which the winter 
solstice fell: and as the month and the sign were considered the 
same, the solstice of course would be said to be in the 8th degree 
of the sign, —a circumstance which, though very simple in itself, 
has perplexed many of our modern astronomers, who could not 
comprehend how the solstice, which of itself was the beginning 
of the sign, should be in the 8th degree. 

Columella is the only writer that I know of that speaks on this 
subject, but without entering into any explanation. He says, 
Book ix. ch. 14. ** From the setting of the Pleiades to the winter 
“ solstice, which happens almost about the 23d of December, in 
“ the eighth degree of Capricorn, &c. - Nor am I ignorant of 


: Digitized by Google 


APPENDIX. 281 


‘* Hipparchus’s computation, which teaches, that the solstices and 
** equinoxes do not happen in the eighth, but in the first degree of 
** the signs. But in this rural discipline, I now follow the calen- 
*« dars of Eudoxes and Meton, and those of ancient astronomers, 
** which are adapted to the public sacrifices; because husband- 
‘* men are both better acquainted with that old opinion which has 
** been commonly entertained ; nor yet is the niceness and exact- 
‘* ness of Hipparchus necessary to the grosser apprehensions and 
** scanty learning of husbandmen.” Again, Book xi. ch. 2. he 
says: “‘ The 17th of December the sun passes into Capricorn: it 
‘is the winter solstice, as Hipparchus will have it. The 24th of 
‘* December is the winter solstice (as the Chaldeans observe).” 
Here Columella would make a distinction, as to the supposed. 
difference between Hipparchus and the Chaldeans. But he was 
mistaken in his idea: he supposed the sun entered the sign on the 
17th of December, because, according to his opinion, it was the 
beginning of the month in the old year; but it did not follow 
from thence that Hipparchus would have made it the solstice : 
on the contrary, he would, as before expressed, have made 
the sign to have commenced at the solstice, whether the time of 
it was by his own observations, or by the Chaldeans, if -he found 
it right. 

The explanation now given, while it serves to show the original ° 
cause of the two entries of the sun into the same sign in one 
month, will, I hope, likewise be sufficient to point out the fallacy 
of depending on the positions of the colures, as mentioned by 
ancient writers, for determining the antiquity of the time to which 
they might be supposed to refer; for we here see, that the de- 
grees referred to for the position of the colure are nothing more 
nor less than the days of the month, which cannot be of any 
real use, as we are totally unacquainted with the various changes 
they may have undergone, and the times when such changes 
were made. . Therefore nothing short of an actual observation, 
referring the positions of the colures to some fixed star, can be 
relied on. 

With respect to my translations of the two calendars above 
given, I hope they will be received with indulgence, and that 
weight and attention their apparent correspondence with the 
Roman calendar entitles them to. All I can now say is, that I 
have spared no pains to render them as correct as the imperfect 
state of the originals would allow, and that I have spent a great 

comme) 


Digitized by Google 


282 APPENDIX. 


deal of time in their investigation. Should, however, my labours 
in this respect ultimately prove useful, in throwing a ray of light 
on the subject of hieroglyphics, which was the principal object I 
had in view in undertaking so difficult a task, I shall not deem 
‘the time employed as lost or thrown away. 


FINIS. 


Se a ee eS 
Taylor, Green, & Littlewood, Printers, 15, Old Bailey. 


Digitized by Google 


Llate IX. 


, ae) Cee 
‘Cer Lipa (paructers 


/ =) ye 


Any Cte Units 


2 ee | 


" aN ® 


; ey 


London, Fubleshed by Smith, Elder, & CP Cormhell, 1023. 


Compound 


a as ke 


a gq 53 RIL A RY 


Ye 


L, Clearke wotlot 


Digitized by Google 


WORKS. 


IN THE PRESS OR JUST PUBLISHED BY 


SMITH, ELDER, anp Co. 
CORNHILL, LONDON. 


MACPHERSON’S INDIA. 
The HISTORY of the EUROPEAN COMMERCE with INDIA; 


To which is subjoined a Review of the Arguments for and against the TRADE 
WITH INDIA, and the Management of it by a Chartered Company ; with an Ap- 
pendix of Authentic Accounts. 
By DAVID MACPHERSON, 
Aathor of the Annals of Commerce, &c, 4to. £1 16s. boards. 


BUCKINGHAM’S ORIENTAL HERALD. 
The ORIENTAL HERALD, and Journal of General Literature : 


Containing Original Articles on various Subjects, and especially on the Government 
-and Affairs of INDIA. 
Conducted by JAMES S. BUCKINGHAM, late Editor of the Calcutta Journal. 
Published monthly, in Nos. Price 5s. each. 

Five volumes of this work are now completed und may be had neatly half bound 
and lettered, Price £4. 85. 

The contents uf these vols. and also the first Number of the work, may be had 
gratis, as a specimen of the whole, on application to the Publishers, 8. E. & Co. 


FRAZER'S TOUR. 


JOURNAL of a TOUR through parts of the SNOWY RANGE 
of the HIMALA MOUNTAINS, and to the Sources of the Rivers JUMNA and 
GANGES. 
By JAMES BAILLIE FRAZER, Esq. Author of Travels through Persia, 
Khorasan, &e. Royal 4to. Price £3. 38. Boards. 


To illustrate the above, 


FRAZER’S VIEWS IN THE HIMALA MOUNTAINS. A 
Series of twenty splendid Views of the most Picturesque Scenery in the HIMALA 
MOUNTAINS. By J. B. FRAZER, Esq. Beaatifully engraved on large Colam- 
bier, by R. HAVELL & SON, and coloured to represent Drawings. Price 
£15 15s, mounted on Bristol Board, and neatly half-bound. 


BARCLAY’S WEST INDIES. . 


A VIEW of the present State of SLAVERY in the British West 
India Colonies, in Answer to Mr. Stephen’s Work on that subject, and containing 
many particulars illustrative of the present condition of the Negroes in Jamaica, 
and of the progress they have made in Religion and Civilization ; with Observations 
on the Decrease of Slavery since the Abolition of the Slave Trade, and on the pro- 
bable Effects of Legislative Emancipation.—-To which is added, a few Remarks on 
an Article in the Edinburgh Review, entitled, ‘‘ On the State of Hayti,” &c. 
By ALEXANDER BARCLAY, 
Lately, and for 21 years, Resident in Jamaica. 1 vol. Svo. In the Press. 


Digitized by Google 


NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS 


ROBERTSON’S WORKS, 
THE WORKS OF WILLIAM ROBERTSON, D.D. F.R.S.E. 
Principal of the University of Edinburgh, 
And Historiograpber to his Majesty for Scotland. — Containing 
The HISTORY OF SCOTLAND, doring the Reign of Queen Mary and King 
James VI. 
The HISTORY OF AMERICA. 
The HISTORY OF THE REIGN OF CHARLES V.; and 
The HISTORY OF INDIA. 


Complete in 9 beaatifally printed vols. 8vo. Price £2 14s. boards. 


LAING’S HISTORY OF SCOTLAND. 
The HISTORY OF SCOTLAND, from the Union of the 


Crowns on the Accession of James VI. to the Throne of Engtand, to the Union of 

the Kingdoms in the Reign of (Jueen Anne. 

With a Preliminary Dissertation on the Participation of Mary, Queen of Scots, in 
the Murder of Darnley. 


BY JOHN LAING, ESQ. 
4 vols, 8vo. Price £1 16s. boards. 


HUME AND SMOLLETT’S ENGLAND. 
The HISTORY OF ENGLAND, from the Invasion of Julius Cesar 
to the Revolution in 1688. By DAVID HUME, Esq. 
With a Continaation of the above to the Death of George II. 
By TOBIAS SMOLLETT, M.D. 
13 vols. 8vu. Price £4 4s. 


" RUSSELI'S MODERN EUROPE. 


THE HISTORY OF MODERN EUROPE; 


With an Account of the Decline and Fall of the ROMAN EMPIRE; anda View 
of the Progress of Society from the Rise of the Modern Kingdoms to the Peace of 
Paris in 1763 : in a Series of Letters from a Nobleman to his Son. With a Conti- 
nuation to the present Time. 

By Dr. CHARLES COOTE. 


A new Edition, 7 vols. 8vo. In the Press. 


a GIBBON’S ROME. ? 
The HISTORY of the DECLINE and FALL of the 
ROMAN EMPIRE. 
By EDWARD GIBBON, Esq. 
8 vols. 8vo. with Portrait and Maps. Price £2 16s. boards. 


THE BRITISH ESSAYISTS, comprising the Tatler, Spectator, 


Guardian, Rambler, Adventurer, World, Connoisseur, Idler, Mirror, Loanger, 
Observer, &o. with Prefaces, Historical and Biographical. By ALEXANDER 
CHALMERS, F.S.A. 

Portraits, $8 vols. Royal 18mo, £8 8s. 


THE WORKS OF MISS EDGEWORTH, 


Consisting of her Tales, Novels, and Miscellaneous Pieces. A new and uniform 
Edition, in 14 vols. Foolscap 8vo. Price £4 4s. in boards. 


Digitized by Google 


PUBLISHED BY SMITH, ELDER, & CO. 


SHAKSPEARE’S PLAYS. 


The PLAYS OF WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE, accurately printed from the 
Texts of the corrected Copies, left by the late George Stevens and Edmond 
Malone, with a Sketch of his Life, and a Glossary. Royal 8vo. Price 15s. bds. 


SHAKSPEARBE’S PLAYS, with Notes, &c. by Dr. 8. Johnson and G. Stevens, 
augmented by Isaac Reed and others. 21 vols. Royal 8vo. Price £18 18s. bds. 


SHAKSPEARE’S PLAYS, with his Life, and a selection of useful Notes, from 
the most eminent Commentators. By Alexander Chalmers. 8 vols, 8vo. Price 
£3 12s. in boards. 


The same Work, fine paper, with Plates. Price £5 4s. 
SHAKSPEARE’S PLAYS, with Glossarial Notes. 10 vols. 18mo. Price 
£1 10s. in boards. A 
Same Edition, large paper, 10 vols. Royal 18mo. Price £2 in boards. 


SHAKSPEARE’S PLAYS and POEMS, with the Corrections and Illustrations 
of various Commentators. By Edmond Malone. 21 vols. 8vo. £12 12s. 


POPE’S WORKS. 


THE WORKS OF ALEXANDER POPE, ESQ. 


With Notes and Illustrations by himself and others. To which are added, A new 
Life of the Author, an Estimate of his Poetical Character and Writings, and 
occasional Remarks. 

BY WILLIAM ROSCOE, ESQ. 
10 vols, 8vo. Price £6. boards. 


POPE’S TRANSLATION of HOMER’S ILIAD & ODYSSEY. 
5 vols. 8vo. Price £2 12s, 6d, boards. 


BOSWELL’'S LIFE OF JOHNSON. 
THE LIFE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON, L.L.D, 


Comprehending an Account of his Studies, and numerous Works, in Chronological 
Order ; a Series of his Epistolary Correspondence and Conversations with many 
Eminent Persons ; and various Original Pieces of his Composition, never before 
published. The whole exhibiting a View of Literature and Literary Men in Great 
Britain for near half a centary, during which he flourished. 


By JAMES BOSWELL, Esq. 4 vols. 8vo. £1 12s. boards. 


ELEGANT EPISTLES ; 


Being a copious Collection of FAMILIAR and AMUSING LETTERS, selected 
from the most celebrated Writers, for the Improvement of Young Persons, and for 
general Entertainment. 

- Royal vo. Price 15s, boards. 


Uniform with the above, 


ELEGANT EXTRACTS; or useful and entertaining Passages 


in Prose. 
Royal 8vo Price 15s. boards. 


ELEGANT EXTRACTS ; or useful and entertaining Pieces of 


Royal Svo. Price 15s. boards. 


‘ Digitized by Google 


NEW WORES AND NEW EDITIONS 


HOMER’S GREEK GRAMMAR. 
Just published, in Demy 12mo. price 4s. bound, 
An INTRODUCTION to the GREEK TONGUE, for the Use 
of Schools and private Students, founded on the basis of the Eton Greek Grammar, 


and illustrated with copious ENGLISH NoTEs, intended to explain the principles on 
which many of the Rules were established. 


By the Rev. P. HOMER, B.D. 
Upwards of 30 years one of the Masters of Rugby School. 


EXCERPTA EX LUCRETIO. 


EXCERPTA ex T. LUCRETII CARI, 


DE RERUM NATURA, Libris Sex: omissis iis, quecunque inutilia visa sunt, 
Carmivibus, et additis Notis quibusdam Variorum. S8vo. Price 6s. 6d. boards. 


DES. ERASMI ROTEROD. DE COPIA VERBORUM. 
Libri Duo, 12mo. Price 4s. 6d. bound. 


DONNEGAN’S LEXICON. 
A New GREEK & ENGLISH LEXICON: Alphabetically 


arranged. 
By JAMES DONNEGAN, M.D 
One thick vol. 8vo. In the press. 


TODD’S JOHNSON’S DICTIONARY. 
A DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH , LANGUAGE; 


In which the words are deduced from their originals, and illustrated’ in their 
different significations, by examples from the best writers ; together with a History 
of the Language, and an English Grammar. 


By SAMUEL JOHNSON, L.L.D. 


With numerous Corrections, and with the addition of several thousand words, as 
also with additions to the History of the Language, and to the Grammar. 


By the Rev. H. J. TODD, M.A.F.S. A. 


Cheplain in Ordinary to his Majesty, and Keeper of the Archbishop of Canterbury’s 
Records. In4 vols. 4to. Price £11 11s. in boards. 


AINSWORTH’S LATIN DICTIONARY, Enlarged & Improved, 
By THOMAS MORELL, D.D. 
| Stereotype Edition, carefully revised and corrected from the best Authorities, 
By JAMES ROSS, LL.D. 8vo. Price 15s. bound. 


GOLDSMITH AND LYNAM’S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 


The HISTORY OF ENGLAND, from the earliest times to the 
Death of George II. by Dr. GOLDSMITH: and continued to the Death of George 
III. by the Rev. R. LYNAM, A.M. 3 vols. 8vo. Price £1 11s. 6d. buards. 
*,* The third vol. containing the History of the Reign of George III. may be 
had ‘separate, to complete former Editions of Goldsmith’s England. Price 12s. bds. 


The A EEUENCE of WEALTH ON HUMAN HAPPINESS, 


A Poem, in Three Cantos, 
By the Reverend W. P. MACDONALD. 
With Frontispiece. 12mo, 5s. bds. 


Digitized by Google 


PUBLISHED BY SMITH, ELDER, & CO. 


BROOKES’ GAZETTEER. 
The GENERAL GAZETTEER; or compendious Geographical 


Dictionary. 
Containing a Description of the Empires, Kingdoms, States, Provinces, Cities, 
Towns, Forts, Seas, Harbours, Rivers, Lakes, Mountains, Capes, &c. in the known 
World; with the Extent, Boundaries, and Natural Productions of each Country ; 
the Government, Customs, Manners, and Religion of the Inhabitants ; the Trade, 
Manufactures, and Curiosities, of the Cities aud Towns, with their Longitude and 
Latitude, Bearing and Distance in English Miles from important Places 3 and the 
remarkable Events hy which they have been distinguished. 
‘By R. BROOKES, M.D. 
One thick vol. 8vo. with Maps. Price 14s. bound. 


WALKER’S GAZETTEER. 
THE UNIVERSAL GAZETTEER ; 


Being a concise Description, alphabetically arranged, of all the Nations, Kingdoms, 
States, Towns, Empires, Provinces, Cities, Oceans, Seas, Harbours, Rivers, Lakes, 
Canals, Mountains, Capes, &c. &c. in the known World ; the Government, Man- 
ners, and Religion of the Inhabitants ; with the Extent, Boundaries, and Natural 
Productions, Manufactures, and Curiosities of the different Countries. 
By JOHN WALKER, M.D. 
Revised, enlarged, and improved, by B. P. CAPPER. 


One thick vol. 8vo. with 14 Maps. Price 15s. bound. 


WALKER’S ATLAS. 


An UNIVERSAL ATLAS, for the USE of SCHOOLS, &c. 
By JOHN WALKER, M.D. 
Coloured Maps. 8vo. Price 12s. half-bound. 


GUTHRIE’S GRAMMAR. 
A Geegraphical, Historical, and Commercial GRAMMAR, 
xhibiting the present State of the World, &c. 
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq. 
With a complete Set of Maps. One large vol. 8vo. Price 18s, bound. 


zs GUTHRIE’S GENERAL ATLAS. 
8vo. half bound. Price 12s. 


JESOP’S FABLES. 


OLD FRIENDS in a New Dress; or select FABLES of JESOP 
IN VERSE. THIRD EDITION, with a SECOND PART, Containing seventy- 
five additional Fables, & embellished with a beantifal Frontispiece. 12mo. Price 
6s. neatly half-bound. 


Recommendations of the first and second Editions. 

“ Old Friends” are always welcome, and we think the New Dress in which they here present 
themselves lecomes them extremely well. We approve highly of the method our author has 
adopted of biending the moral with the fables, and his reason for so doing is as just as it is 
convincing.— From the Cabinet, April, 1808. 

“ There is no more €ompendious, forcible, and interesting mode of conveying moral instruc. 
tion, than through the medium of fable. The ingenious Author of this versification of several 
ot AEsop’s Fables, was aware that by printing them as they usually appear, with the moral 
detached, the fable is read, and the moral neglected; the cake is eaten, and the task left nn- 
done. He has, therefore, prudently “ endeavoured to interweave the meral with the sub- 
ject ;” in which he has sneceeded: and we gladly recommend his work to our young friends, 
both for their instruction and amusement.—Monthly Mirror, August, 1807. 

“ An old friend with a new face is not always a pleasant sight, but we are not sorry to see 
our old fnend sop change his prosaic countenance into one of such easy rhyme as we behold 
in his performance.— Critical Review, S f: 1807. 

“ We consider them of the first class, in the department of fable, and this Poem (the Belly 
and the Limbs) as one of the most jinished performancerof the kind, since our favourite Gay 
Aurora Morning Paper. 


See also Monthly Review, April, 1808, 


Digitized by Google 


NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS 


AN IMPROVED SYSTEM OF SHORT HAND, 


Rendered attainable in Six Lessons ; with an Appendix, shewing, by a simple method, 
how the same is applicable as an UNIVERSAL SYSTEM OF STENOGRAPHY. Il}lus- 
trated by numerous Examples, on Nine large and elegantly engraved Copper Plates. 


By THOMAS OXLEY, Teacher. 
Demy 4to. Price 6s. boards. 

« The Title very truly states the Contents of this valuable publication, and ina 
Commercial Country like Great Britain, where every attempt to simplify so impor- 
tant an Art, as that of lenmanship, must deserve encouragement ; it appears to 
possess every merit that ought to attach to it, and as one fact will speak more in its 
behalf than our most laboured eulogy, we shall merely state, that a Professional 
Gentleman of eminence, whose avocations render it necessary for him to study the 
most concise and valuable of the many systems — has, after having tried eleven 
others, given preference to, and now practises the system of Mr. Oxley.”’— Vide 
European Magazine. 


MIDDLETON’S LIFE OF CICERO. 


THE LIFE OF M. TULLIUS CICERO. 
By CONYERS MIDDLETON, D.D. 
Principal Librarian to the University of Cambridge. 
In 2 vols. 8vo, Price 18s. boards. 


THINGS IN GENERAL; 


Being Delineations of Persons, Places, Scenes, Circumstances, Situations, and 
Occurrences in the Metropolis and other parts of Britain ; 

And containing, inter alia, Aberdeen, with those therein — The Law, the Learning, 
the Ladies, the Life, the Whigs and Tories of Edinburgh—A Chapter upon the 
‘Waters — London in general —Guildhall—John Ball, his Wife, and Daughter— 
St. Stephen’s : Brougham, Canning —'The Rev. E. Irving, cum multis aliis. 


With an emblematical Frontispiece, by LAWRENCE LANGSHANK, Gent. 
Author of “‘ Modern Athens,”’ ‘Babylon the Great,” &c. 12mo. Price 7s. boards. 


MOSHEIM’S ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY. 
AN ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, Ancient and Modern, 
From the Birth of Christ, to the beginning of the Eighteenth Century, 


In which the Rise, Progress, and Variations of Charch Power are considered in 
their connexion with the State of Learning and Philosophy, and the Political 
History of Europe during that period. 

By the late learned JOHN LAWRENCE MOSHEIM, D.D. and Chancellor of the 

University of Gottingen. 
Translated from the original Latin, and accompanied with Notes and Chronological 
Tables, by ARCHIBALD MACLAINE, D.D. 
And continued to the present time, by Dr. CHARLES COOTE. 
A new Edition, 6 vols. 8vo. Inthe Press. 


FINLAYSON’S BRITISH FARMER. 


Just Published in 8vo, price 9s. Boards. 
* THE BRITISH FARMER; or a series of Scientific and Practical ESSAYS on 
AGRICULTURE; to which is added THE PLOUGHMAN’S GUIDE. By JOHN FIN-~ 
LAYSON, Inventor and Patentee of the Self-Cleaning Ploughs and Harrows. Em- 
bellished with seven Copper-Plate Engravings, showing the Author’s New Patent 
Agricultural Instruments. 


Digitized by Google 


PUBLISHED BY SMITH, ELDER, & CO. 


; MORISON’S LECTORES. 
LECTURES on the RECIPROCAL OBLIGATIONS of LIFE, 


Or a Practical Exposition of Domestic, Ecclesiastical, Patriotic, and Mercantile 
Daties. 
By JOHN MORISON, Minister of Trevor Chapel, Brompton. 
In 1 vol. 12mo. Price 73. boards. 
‘* To the justness and excellence of the sentiments (expressed in these Lectures) 


we are not aware of an exception; and they are. enforced, as the quotations amply 
evince, ina popular, judicious, and striking manner.” — Eclectic Review for June. 


«* We give a cordial welcome to Mr. MorIson’s Book ; he has executed his task 
in a spirit of wisdom and piety, which calls for our decided commendation. It is 
highly desirable, that the main principles of action, the great laws of religious inter- 
course, should be set forth in their strong bearing on private and public life. This 
has been effected in the volume before as, at once with fidelity and discretion, and in 
a style correct, impressive, and remarkably free from the current affectations of 
modern composition. — Cong. Mag. for May. 


See also Christian Guardian, and Evan. Mag. for Aug. 


PORTEUS’ LECTURES. 


LECTURES ON THE GOSPEL OF ST. MATTHEW, 
Delivered in the Parish Church of St. James, Westminster, 
By the Right Rev. BEILBY PORTEUS, D.D. Bishop of London. 
Complete in 1 vul. Svo, with a Sketch of his Life. 9s. bds. 

« These admirable Lectures have now been before the public upwards of a quar- 
ter of a century, and during that time hase, through the Divine blessing, tended 
more to the advancement and stability of our Christian faith, than any work of the 
kind ever published. For beagty of sentiment, justness of reasoning, and strength 
of argument, they certainly cannot be surpassed. The man who could rise from a 
careful perusal of these Lectures, without being convinced of the great truths of 
oar religion, is an infidel indeed !” 


» ©,* This is the most correct and complete edition that has ever appeared, and 
the only one that contains a Life of the Author. : 


BLAIR’S LECTURES. 
LECTURES ON RHETORIC and BELLES LETTRES, 
Delivered in the University of Edinburgh, 

By HUGH BLAIR, D.D. F.RS.E. 


One of the Ministers of the High Church, and Professor of Rhetoric and Belles 
Lettres in the University of Edinburgh. 
Complete in 1 vol. 8vo. with Portrait. 10s. 6d. bds. 


BLAIR'S SERMONS. 


SERMONS, by HUGH BLAIR, D.D. F.R.S.E. 
The five volumes complete in 1 Vol. 8vo. Price 12s. bds. 


ADAM’S PRIVATE THOUGHTS. 


PRIVATE THOUGHTS ON RELIGION, 
And other subjects connected with it. Extracted from the Diary of 
The Rev. THOMAS ADAM, late Rector of Wintringham. 


To which is prefixed, a Sketch of his Life and Character. A new and beautifully 
printed edition, 12mo. 48. boards. 


PP 


Digitized by Google 


WEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS 


MEMOIRS of the late REV. ALEXANDER STEWART, D.D. 
One of the Ministers of Canongate, Edinburgh. 
12mo. Third Edition, In the Press. 


LETTERS from the late Rev. WILLIAM ROMAINE, A.M. 
Toa Friend, on the most important Subjects, daring a Correspondence of 20 years. 
Published from the original MSS. 

By the Rev. THOMAS WILLS, A.B. 

Fifth Edition, beautifully printed uniform with Adam’s Private Thoughts. 
12mo. 3s. boards. 


YOUNG’S SERMON ON SLAVERY. 
A VIEW OF SLAVERY, in Connection with Christianity ; 


Being the Substance of a Discourse delivered in the WESLEYAN CHAPEL, STONEY- 
Hit, Jamaica, Sept. 19, 1824. 
By ROBERT YOUNG, Wesleyan Missionary. : 
With an APPENDIX, containing the Resolutions of the Missionaries in that Con- 
nection, at a general Meeting held in Kingston, Sept. Gth, 1824. 
“‘ Art thou called being a servant (Aovrog, Slave), care not for it.”— PAUL. 
“My kingdom is not of this world.” — Jesus Curist. 
8vo. Price 1s. 6d. stitched. 


HOOKER’S ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY. 
THE LAWS OF ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY, in Eight Books: 


With several other Treatises, and a General Index. 
BY RICHARD HOOKER. 
Also, a Life of the Author, by ISAAC WALTON. 
Complete in two very thick Volumes, £1 1s. 
*," In this Edition the numerous references have been examined, and those 
wanted are supplied. The whole carefally read throughout by the Rev. W. S. 
Dosson, A.M. Trinity College, Cambridge. 


SKELTON’S WORKS. 


The COMPLETE WORKS of the late REV. PHILIP SKELTON, 
Rector of Fintona, &o. &o. 
To which is prefixed, Burpy’s Life of the Author. 
EDITED BY THE REV. R. LYNAM, A. M. 
Assistant Chaplain to the Magdalen Hospital. 6 Vols. £3. 12s. 

To those who admire sound argument and genuine piety, illustrated and enlivened 
by genius, we trust that we shall perform an acceptable service in presenting a new 
Edition of Skelton’s Works, which, as their merit is rare, have lately become propor- 
tionably scarce. 


re eee 


THE FIRST DAY IN HEAVEN,— A Fragment, 
BY an EMINENT PROFESSOR in one of the Colleges. 
‘Whot if earth 
Be but the shadow of heaven, and things therein 
Each to each other like, more than on earth is thought? 
Milton’s Par. Lost, V. 574. 
Demy 12mo. Price 4s. boards. 

This work was originally collected by the Author for the use of a friend, and 
is now published in the hope of its being of some little benefit to others. The Frag- 
ment of Cicero, entitled Scrpro’s DREAM, supplied the model of its arrangement ; 
but the chief design was, to connect some of the discoveries lately made in the 
Natural Sciences, with the most important Moral Truths. The ample and -interest- 
ing Notes at the end of the volume are intended to guide the reader to the perusal 


of those Writers, whose Moral and Soientific Works are so well calculated te illas- 
trate his subject, 


Digitized by Google 


PUBLISHED BY SMITH, ELDER, & CO. 


THE PORTEUSIAN BIBLE, 


CONTAINING THE WHOLE OF 


THE AUTHORISED ENGLISH VERSION, 


WITH THE 
MORE INTERESTING AND DEVOTIONAL CHAPTERS 
DISTINGUISHED 
FOR 


YOUTHFUL AND FAMILY READING: 


PRECISELY ACCORDING TO THE SELECTION OF THE LATE 


BISHOP PORTEUS, 
OR THE MORE GENERAL AND EXTENDED SCALE OF 


The Porteusian Bible DSortetp. 


To this B1BLX is prefixed the PORTEUSIAN INDEX, or FAMILY 
GUIDE to the HOLY SCRIPTURES ; containing, among a large 
variety of Scripture matter, an arrangement of Texts, exhibiting the whole 
scheme of the Christian Religion— a Textual arrangement of Scripture Pro- 
mises — a Classification of the whole series of Prophecies relative to the Mes- 
siah — a Harmony of the Gospels — Bishop PorTeEvs ou the Authenticity of 
the Scriptures, &c. &c. &c. The whole forming a complete Biblical Assistant ; 
with the Scripture Precepts, Promises, and Threatenings, selected and ar- 
ranged under proper Heads, 80 as to form, in the language of Holy Writ, a 
comprehensive “ Scripture View of the Christian’s Faith and Duty.’ 


THE PORTEUSIAN BIBLE and INDEX have now been a sufficient 
time before the Public to ascertain its opinion of their merits, and of their effi- 
ciency to accomplish the important purposes of their adoption. This opinion, so 
unequivocally expressed, has fully satisfied the expectations of the Editors ; 
while the sale. of nearly Eight Editions, amounting to Thirty Thousand Copies, 
has afforded them ppporeuitice of improving upon their original plan, assisted 
by the valuable aid of many distinguished Clergymen of the Establishment, and 
of Ministers among the several classes of Dissenting Christians. The obvious 
facilities which this Work affords to the young and inexperienced Reader, in 
obtaining an acquaintance with the Book of God, have in many instances been 
crowned with the happiest success; while its acknowledged freedom from all 
party views and feeling, has obtained for it the warm approbation of every De- 
nomination in the Christian World. Unable, hitherto, to meet the extensive 
demands made for the various Editions of their Work, the Publishers have 
been induced to adopt new arrangements throughout the three Kingdoms, by 
which they hope to be relieved from the numerous complaints of the difficulty, 
and in many cases, the impossibility, of procuring Copies of the PORTEU- 
SIAN BIBLE. oe 
+ 


Several new Editions of the PORTEUSIAN BIBLE and TESTAMENT are now 
completed, and may be obtained of the Pablishers in all the different sizes, from a 
Pocket Volume to a Royal Quarto, and in every variety of plain and elegant Bindings. 

The PORTEUSIAN INDEX, in Demy 12mo. may he had alone, prive 28. 6d. 
neatly half-bound and lettered. 

The other sizes of the INDEX are also sold separate, and in sheets, if desired, to bind 
up with any other Edition of the Scriptures. 

: —_——————— 


PUBLISHED BY SMITH, ELDER, & CO. 65, CORNHILL, Lonpon. 
Sold also by Hatchard and Son, Piccadilly; Waugh and Innes, Edinburgh ; Chalmers 
and Collins, Glasgow ; A- Brown and Co. Aberdeen; R. M. Tims, and Westley and 
Tyrrell, Dablin ; and by all Booksellers in the United Kingdom. 

*," The Bibles of the Porteusian Bible Society, in plain Bindings, may be had to 
Subscribers’ Orders, of the Publishers, SMITH, ELDER, & Co. 65, Cornhill ; and also 
of J. CHURCHILL, ‘Leicester Square. 


Digitized by Google 


NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS 


THE ENGLISH CLASSICS. 
: The following interesting Publications, form a part of this a 
ELEGANT CABINET EDITION of the ENGLISH CLASSICS, 
Which is intended to include all the most important Works that English Literature 
has produced, as well as correct Translations of the most Popular Works of Foreign 


Authors. 


Eminent English Artists are engaged to furnish Appropriate and Superior 


Embellishments to each Work ; and the Typographical Part of the whole series will 
be executed in the same superior manuer, and on the finest wove Paper. 

The following are now ready and may be had separately (in boards) at the Prices 
affixed to cach. They are also kept in handsome bindings, and are admirably adapted 


sor Presents to both Sexes. 


“Akenside’s Pleas'*, of Imagination 3 0 


Arabian Nights, 8 vols. ........ 1 
Atala ; Death of Abel ; Idyls ; and 
First Navigator .........0-- 
Beattie on Truth .....0.0-.000. 
Boswell’s Life of Johnson, 3 vols. 
Burns’s Poems and Songs .....- 
Beauties of Sterne .. 
Belisarius, & Numa Pompilius .. 
Beveridge’s Private Thoughts.... 
Blair's Essays,...-..ccecesers 
Buccaneers of America .......+ 
Butler’s Hudibras ....... 00000 
Chapone, Gregory, and Pennington 
Chesterfield’s Principles of Polite- 
NOBS we cccccccsccarcccscccs 
Chinese and Oriental Tales...... 
Citizen of the World ........- 
Cowper’s Poems .....e..eeceee 
De Lolme on the Constitation .... 
Devil on two Sticks......-.000¢ 
Doddridge’s Rise, &o. ws. ss.000 
Dodd’s B. of Shakspeare ....... 
Don Quixote, 2 vols. ....eeeee 
Dryden’s Virgil ........eseeee 
Falconer’s Shipwreck.........+ 
Fairy Tales, 2 vols......seee0s 
Francis’s Horace .....-.+eeceers 
Franklin’s Works .......seeeee 
Gay’s Poetical Works.........- 
Gil Blas, 2 vols. .....ceceeseee 
Goldsmith's Essays, Poems, & Plays 
Galliver's Travels ........ 
Hervey’s Meditations ... 
Hoole’s Tasso ......0++ 
Hoole’s Orlando .......++00008 
Humphrey Clinker .........006 
Jobnson’s Lives, 2 vols. .... 206 
Johnson’s Rambler, 2 vols.......+ 
Joseph Andrews ... 
Janius’ Letters ......cceaceee 
King Authur 2 vols. .......... 
Klopstock’s Messiah .......4.- 
~ Locke on the Understanding, and 
Bacon’s Essays ........ 
Mackenzie’s Works ...... 2.0006 
Marmontel’s Tales .......2.005 
Mason on Self-Knowledge ; Econo- 
my of Life; & Melmoth's Great 
Importance ......e.ceeccees 
Milton's Poetical Works ....... 
Montagu’s (Lady) Letters ...... 
Nourjahad, & Almoran & Hammet 
Ossian’s Poems .....ceeseececs 


1 


= 


AAS AOWOP SOSH ARH WADRHWHRTE MACHR WWHEhHR WD CHUAGWaRWA 


veaaee 


3 


on 


2s 


a 
~ 
SoPom a ocs eoamosoococoocooacencoosooocacooaocece|cs eqoceoacace 


an 


U1) 


Old English Baron and Castle of 
Otranto ....ecccercccceeree 
Ovid's Metamorphoses .......... 


“Paley’s Philosophy ......+.0+0. 


Paley’s Evidences, and Life of the 
Author ......cccscecssseccer 
Nataral Theology, and Tracts 
Hore Pauline, and Cler- 
gyman’s Companion .. 
Sermons ....ccerscoree 
Works, complete ....... 
Paol and Virginia; Elizabeth; & 
Indian Cottage ......eseeeceee 
Peregrine Pickle, 2 vols...... 
Peruvian Tales... .cscccsseccecns 
Pilgrim’s Progress .....cescccee 
Poetical Works of Collins, Gray, 
and Beattie: with Lord Byron's 
English Bards and Scotch Re- 
viewers, Hours of Idleness, 
Waltz, &o. ....ccvevecveves 
Pope’s Poetical Works .......- 
Homer’s Iliad .........000 
Odyssey...sccseces 
Rasselas and Dinarbas .....,..2¢ 
Remains of H. Kirke White .... 
Romaine’s Treatises .......... 
Robinson Crusoe .......0.se00. 
Robinson’s Soriptare Characters, 
4 vols. cocreccccccecescosac 
Roderick Random ......e.+eoe. 
Sandford and Merton ........¢. 
Seven Champions ........00066 
Sir W. Jones’ Poems and Life 
Spectator 8 vols......0..-s cece 
Spenser’s Fairy Queen, 2 vols .. 
Spiritual Quixote 2.2... 0csceeee 
Sterne’s Journey ....sececseuce 
Sturm’s Reflections, 2 vols. ...... 
Tales of the Castle, 2 vols. ....... 
Tales of the Genii .........000. 
Telemachus ..... cee cccocroene 
Thomson’s Seasous, and Castle of 
Indolence ..... 00. .ccccecsven 
Theodosius and Constantia...... 
Tom Jones, 2 vols. cee cccsccce 
Tristram Shandy ......++ 
Vicar of Wakefield ...ccccecsve 
Voltaire’s Charles XII. and Peter 
the Great ...cceccecscccccnes 
Walton and Cotton’s Angler .... 
Watts on the Mind .......20006 
Young’s Night Thoughts’........ 
Zimmerman on Solitude ......+ 


oe 


Digitized by Google 


& eoow Saw am ade 
2eon oan 


> 


- 


OD 
een Aa NOSOVhH PROD ETSCSOHW RAMA AHR HSROO 
OSS9S9 2meeon ocosescaeecocesocooes eoosocso 


bet 


on eon 


PUBLISHED BY SMITH, ELDER, & CO. 


ELGIN CATHEDRAL. 
A SERIES of FIVE VIEWS of the Venerable and Magnificent 
Ruins of this justly celebrated Cathedral, 
From accurate Drawings taken by Mr.W1LLIAM CLarK, an Artist, resident 
at Elgin, are now in the hands of the Engraver. 

This most splendid Edifice, which has for Centuries past called forth the 
admiration of the Artist, the Antiquary, and the Connoisseur, is too well 
known to require any eulogium; and the interesting Views now offered to 
the public, will comprehend every Arch and object worthy of notice in the 
whole of its extensive range. The Engravings will be executed in the most 
Jinished Style of Aquatinta, and printed in the Bistre Tint, in imitation of the 
Original Drawings, which have received the approbation and patronage of, 
and will be dedicated, by permission, to His GRACE THE DUKE oF Gorpon, 
Tbe Drawings may be seen at SMITH, ELDER & Co.’s, 65, Cornhill, by whom Sub- 

scribers’ Names will be received, and also by J. Forsyth, Bookseller, Elgin. 

The Sets will be delivered precisely in the Order of Subscription, Price Two 

Guineas each, in a Cover, with an Historical and descriptive Account of the 

Cathedral, from its erection in 1224. 


A MANUAL OF THE ANTIQUITIES, Distinguished Build- 
ings, and Natural Curiosities of the Province of MO RAY, comprehending Inverness 
aud an Account of the Caledonian Canal, &c. with a View of Elgin Cathedral 
12mo. Price 4s. boards. 


WATT ON LIFE ASSURANCE AND ANNUITIES. 
COMPARATIVE TABLES of the RATES OF LIFE ASSURANCE 
DEMANDED IN SCOTLAND; 

With an Exposition of the Doctrine of Life Assurance and Annuity, shewing how 
the Rates are calculated, and the present value ascertained, when claimed to be rank- 
ed on a Bankrupt estate, or sold for their true value. 

By PETER WATT, Accountant, Edinburgh. 
Second Edition, 8vo. Price 6s. boards. 


THE HISTORY OF GUATEMALA. 


A STATISTICAL AND COMMERCIAL HISTORY OF THE 
KINGDOM OF GUATEMALA, IN SPANISH AMERICA: 
Containing important Particulars relative to its Productions, Manufactures, Cus- 
toms, &c. &c. &c. with an Account of its Conquest by the Spaniards, and a Narra- 
tive of the principal Events down to the present time: from original Records in 

the Archives ; actual Observations ; and other authentic Sources. 
By Don DOMINGO JUARROS, a Native of New Guatemala. 
Translated by J. BAILY, Lieutenant R.N. - 
Dedicated, by permission, to the ViscouNT MELVILLE. Two Maps. 16s. bds. 


ROLLIN’S ANCIENT HISTORY. 

The ANCIENT HISTORY of the Egyptians, Carthaginians, 
AsSyrians, Babylonians, Medes and Persians, Grecians and 
Macedonians. 

By M. ROLLIN, 
Late Principal of (he University of Paris, Professor of Eloquence in the Royal Col- 
lege, and Member of the Royal Academy of Insoriptions and Belles Lettres. 
A uew edition, revised and corrected, with a Life of the Author, and 19 Plates. 
8 vols. 8vo. Price £3 4s. in boards. 


OOKE’S ROMAN HISTORY. 
The ROMAN HISTORY, from the Building of Rome, to the Ruin 
of the Commonwealth. By NATHANIEL HOOKE, Esq. 
6 vols. 8vo. Price £3 3s. in boards, 


Digitized by Google 


VIEWS IN ENGLAND AND WALES. 


SMITH, ELDER, & CO, Proprietors of the VIEWS IN SCOTLAND, which 
. have been honoured with such very extensive Patronage, respectfully announce that 
they are about to Publish an uniform Series of 


VIEWS OF THE PRINCIPAL CITIES AND TOWNS 
IN ENGLAND AND WALES, 


Te be Engraved by the frst Artists, in the most finished style of Aquatiota, on 
a Soale of 22 Inches by 15, and carefully coloured to represent the Original Draw- 
ings ; which will be taken by Mr. JOHN CLARK, expressly for this Work, from 
the most picturesque and commanding Points of View in the Vicinity of the re- 
spective Places. 


The whole of this splendid Series will be published in an uniform size and style, 
to admit of their being afterwards bound together, kept in Portfolios, or Framed ; 
but any ef the Engravings may be purchased separately, at 15s. each. 


The Views of BATH and CHEPSTOW are now engraving by Messrs. Huvell & 
‘Son, and will be finished in a few weeks, when they may be seen at the Publishers’, 
or their Agents ; as Specimens of the whole Series. a 


Subscribers’ Names will be received by the Publishers, as well as by the Principal 
Booksellers and Printsellers throughout the Kingdom ; and a preference in the 
order of Publication will be given to each place, in proportion to the number of its 
Sabscribers, 


If any Town, worthy of a place in this Collection, should escape the notice of 
the Publishers, and the Inhabitants should desire a View of it to form part of the 
intended Series, the Proprietors will very gladly attend to avy suggestions on the 
subject, accompanied by a sufficient list of Subscribers from the Vicinity. 


MARSHALL'S MUSIC. 


THE ADMIRED SCOTTISH MELODIES, STRATHSPEYS, 
REELS, &c. composed by 
WILLIAM MARSHALL, Esq. of Keithmore. 


This Volume contains upwards of ONE HUNDRED and SEVENTY Tunes, all of 
Mr. MARSHALL’s own Composition ; many of them (although never published by 
himself) having been Jong familiar to the Public, it is only necessary to state here, 
that his NEw Arrs have been pronounced, by good Judges, to whom they bave 
been submitted, to be equal, if not superior, to any of his former productions. 


But to secure to this Work the patronage of every admirer of ScoTTisn Sona, 
the Publishers need only mention that Mr. MARSHALL is the Author of that well- 
known and beautiful Air to which BURNS adapted his favourite words “ Of a’ the 
alrts the wind can blaw,” &c. , 


The whole accompanied by appropriate Basses, and adapted to 
The Violin, Violincello, Harpsichord, Pianoforte, §c. 
Song Size. Price 15s. stitched. 


Digitized by Soogle 


VIEWS OF CALCUTTA. 


A SERIES 


OF 


TWENTY-FOUR INTERESTING VIEWS 


JALCUTTA AND ITS ENVIRONS, 


Are now Publishing, after Drawings executed by 
JAMES BAILLIE FRASER, ESQ. 


FROM SKETCHES TAKEN ON THE SPOT. 


Tue First Part, consisting of Twelve Plates, has already appeared in the 
following Order, viz. 
No. 
I, VIEW OF CHANDPAL GHAT. 
VIEW OF ESPLANADE ROW, from the Chouringhee Road. 
VIEW OF GOVERNMENT HOUSE, from the Eastward. 


Il. VIEW OF THE BOTANIC GARDEN HOUSE and REACH. 
VIEW OF ESPLANADE ROW, from the Reservoir at Chandpal Ghat. 
VIEW OF WRITER’S BUILDINGS, from the Monument at the West End. 


IL, VIEW OF THE OPPOSITE or SULKHEA SIDE, from the Respondentia Walk, with a 
North-wester coming on. 
VIEW OF TANK SQUARE, from the West. 
VIEW OF GOVERNMENT HOUSE, from Court House Street, taken from the House of 
Johnston and Co, 


IV. VIEW OF BARRACKPORE HOUSE, with the Reach of the River. 
VIEW OF THE TOWN HALL. 
VIEW OF THE SCOTCH CHURCH, from the Gate of Tank Square. 


Che Plates forming the Serond Part of the Series 


re now in the Hands of the Engravers, and will be published as quickly as may be consistent with 
due attention to the superior Execution of the Work, as follows : 


V. VIEW OF ST. ANDREW’S CHURCH, from the Top of Mission Row. 
VIEW OF ST. JOHN’S CATHEDRAL. 
VIEW OF CALCUTTA, from a Point opposite to Kidderpore. 


VIL VIEW OF COURT-HOUSE STREET, from near the Sonth-eastern Gate of Government House. 
VIEW OF CALCUTTA, from the Glacis of Fort William. 
‘ VIEW OF THE RIVER, SHIPPING, AND TOWN, from near Smith’s Dock. 


IT, VIEW OF THE LOLL BAZAAR, from opposite the House of John Palmer, Exq. 
VIEW OF THE LOLL BAZAAR and PORTUGUESE CHAPEL, from the Ciroular Road. 
VIEW OF SERAMPORE, from the Park at Barrackpore. 


III. VIEW OF THE WEST SIDE OF TANK SQUARE. 
VIEW OF THE BLACK PAGODA, on the Chitpore Road. 
VIEW OF THE BAZAAR, leading to the Chitpore Read. 


These Views, like the former twelve, will be engraved in the best Style of Aquatinta, and coloured 
‘represent Drawings ; and as Arrangements have been made for securing the Assistance of the best 
ngravers, it is hoped that they will be even superior in Execution to those already before the Public. 


Price £2 2s. each Number. 


Subscribers’ Names are received, as formerly, at the Counting-House of Messrs. RICKARDS, 
"ACKINTOSH and Co, Bishopsgate Street ; Messrs. BAZETT, FARQUHAR, CRAWFORD and Co. Broad 
treet; Messrs, PALMER, M‘KiLiop and Co. King’s Arms Yard; and by Messrs. MACKINTOSH 
ad Co, Calcutta. ; 


*,” The Original Drawings of the first Series are now on Sale at the Publishers’, 65, Cornhill. 


Digitized by Google 


UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF HIS MAJESTY. 


VIEWS IN 


SMITH, ELDER, & Co. 


’ RESPECTFULLY announce they are now publishing large and correct Virws 
of the principal Citizs and Towns in ScotLanp, from accurate, charac- 
teristic, and picturesque Drawings, sketched and painted on the spot by 
Mr. JOHN CLARK, of London, an Artist of acknowledged talent, whom they 
engaged to visit Scotland for the express purpose, and whose superior taste 
and cist in Topographical Delineation, are already well known, and have been 
justly aparecnied | in his Views in the Netherlands and other places. , 

The Drawings for this NATIONAL WorK have been taken from the most 
commanding and eligible points in the vicinity of the respective Towns, and 
the Publishers have the satisfaction to state, that each Drawing having been 
submitted to the inspection of Gentlemen of taste, resident upon the spot, has 
received their most unqualified approbation; nor have any exertions been 
spared to do justice to the varied and interesting Scenery for which they are 
all so justly celebrated. 

Each Plate witi be Engraved in the finest Style of Aquatinta, and in an uniform Size of 22 
by 15 Inches; price 10s. 6d. exquisitely Coloured after the Original Drawing. 

Any single View may be had at the above Price, but those who order a complete set will 
be entitled to the Historical and Descriptive Account of the whole Series, and of Scotland 
generally, now preparing for this Work and to be delivered with the last Namber. 


" THE WHOLE DEDICATED BY PERMISSION 
; TO HIS MAJESTY, 
Who has been graciously pleased to honor this National Undertaking with his Patronage. 
The following Towns form part of the intended Collestion: those marked thus * are already 
engraved, and may be seen at the Publishers’ or their Agents in each place, as Specimens of the 


whole Series. The others are now in the hands of the Engraver, and will be finished as speedily 
as possible, and followed by Views, in the same style, of all the other Towns in Scotland : 


* ABERDEEN *DINGWALL Forres KELSO *PeRTu 
ALLOA DorNnocu FortTrose | KILMARNOCK *PETERHEAD 
ANNAN *DuMBARTON | Fort GeorGE§| KINCARDINE Port PatTRIcK 
ARBROATH DUMBLANE FRASERSBURGH| KINROSS *PoRTGLASGOW) 
*AYR *DUMFRIES *GLascow KIRKCALDY and NFEWARK§ 
*BANnFF DUNBAR *GREENOCK *KIRKCUDBRIGAT |*RENFREW 
BeRwIckK DUNDEE *GRETNA GREEN |*LANARK *RotTHESAY 
BRECHIN DUNFERMLINE] HADDINGTON | LEITH SELKIRK 
CAMPBELLTON |*DUNK2ELD HAMILTON *LINLITHGOW *St. ANDREWS 
CARLISLE “EDINBURGH 2) HUNTLEY “MONTROSE *STIRLING 
CLACKMANNAN| three Views § |/*INVERARY *MELROSE STRANRAER 
*CROMARTY *ELGIN *INVERNESS NAIRN TAIN 
CULLEN *FALKIRK IRVINE NEWTON-STEWART| WEMYSS 
*CUPAR,INFIFE, FOCHABERS |*JEDBURGH *PAISLEY WHITEHORN 
DALKEITH l*Forrar KEITH *PEEBLES WIGTON 


A correct Representation of ihe Arms of each City and Town, as received from the Lyon Office 
will be accurately Engraved at the bottom of each Plate. 


These Views may likewise be had mounted as drawings—plain, coloured, or varnished. 
An extensive assortment of PorTFoLIos and FRAMES in every variety of Pattern is also 
kept on sale, at the lowest wholesale prices. 


Sold by WavanH and Innes, Hunter Square, Edinburgh; CHALMERS and COLLINS, - 


Glasgow; A. Brown and Co. Aberdeen; WesTLeY and TYRRELL, Dublin; Prer! 
BENARD, Paris; bythe other Agents in the different Towns ; and by every respectuble Book- 
seller and Printseller in the Kingdom. 
*,* The Original Drawings, of those engrared, are now on Sale;aud may be seen at the 
Publishers’, 65 Cornhill.zed by GoOog I¢ 


| 


