SRI HAYAGREEVAYA NAMAHA 
A MANUAL OF 
JAIMINI ASTROLOGY 
(MADE EASY) 


BY 


MAHAMAHOPADHYAYA 
IRANGANTI RANGACHARYA 


PREFACE 


Some astrologers hardly understand my book, Jaimini 
Sutramritam, a commentary both in Sanskrit and English. Of 
course it is just hearsay, may or may not be true. However one 
finds intricacy in Jaimini school of thought, unless one goes 
thoroughly through the Sanskrit commentary and Vriddha karikas 
as well. I have prepared this book as such that the astrologer 
could grasp easily and correctly the aspects, argalas, arudhas. 
raja yogas, ayur dasas, phalitha dasas etc. also because of charts 
illustrated where ever necessary. Forsure this could be a guide 
to every aspirant to Jaimini predictivity. For more details and 
Dasas the reader would well refer my Jaimini Sutramritam 
published by Sagar Publications. 


IRANGANTI RANGACHARYA 


PUBLISHERS NOTE : 


Mahamahopadhyaya Sriman Iranganti Rangcharya born on 
May 21, 1927 is one of the senior scholars in astrology and 
Vishistadvaita Philosophy in the country. He is a good poet in 
, sanskrit and the living legend of Jaimini Astrology. Some of his 
works include 
1. Muhurtha Kalpadrumam (Telugu) 
2. Muhurtha Sindhu (English) 
3. Jaimini Sutramritam (Commentary in English) 
4. Kulasekhara Sukti Sampath (100 slokas for Perumal 
Tirumozi) 
Quintessence of Brahma Sutra Sri Bhashya 
Kulasekhara’s Mukundamala (Commentary in English) 
Srivrata Sloka Malika (120 slokas for AndalsTiruppavai) 
Bhuvana Deepika (Horary in Telugu) 


CONTENTS 


Preface 
CHAPTER-! BASICS. ..0........ceceecesceseescereeeereereeeteeceteesenseneentees 1 
CHAPTER-2 ARGALAS & RAJA YOGASG.........0:.::0 cece 12 
CHAPTER-3 KARAKAMSA ...00o occ eeeeeeceeteereere ete eeteee 28 
CHAPTER-4 ARUDHA .....0.0....eeceecceeecseeereeereesenenaneneseeeeeenneen 34 
CHAPTER-5 UPAPADA. .........0.cccecceeceeteeeeeeeetetetenteteerenennennend 44 
CHAPTER-6 FEMALE HOROSCOPY..........000...:: 48 
CHAPTER-7 LONGEVITY...........:.:cesecsecteeeesereseetestensecesettes 52 
CHAPTER-8 AYUR DASAS. ......0.......:cccccececceececeteeteteeesete eee! 60 


CHAPTER-9 PHALITHA DASAS...000..000.0 cocci 65 


Chapter- 1 BASICS 


The twelve Zodiacal signs are classified into three categories. 
They are the cardinal (Chara), the fixed (Sthira), the dual 
(Ubhaya). Aries (Mesha). Cancer (Kataka), Libra (Tula) and 
Capricorn (Makara) are the cardinal signs (Chara rasi's). Taurus 
(Vrishabha), Leo (Simha), Scorpio (Vrischika) and Aquarius 
(Kumbha) are the fixed signs.Gemini (Mithuna), Virgo (Kanya), 
Sagittarius (Dhanus) and Pisces (Meena) are the dual signs 
(Ubhaya). 

A cardinal sign aspects (looks at) the three fixed signs 
leaving its 2nd sign. For example Aries, the cardinal sign aspects 
the three signs viz Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius leaving its 2nd 
sign Taurus the fixed sign. A fixed sign aspects the three cardinal 
signs 

leaving its 12th sign which is a fixed sign. For example Taurus 
the fixed sign aspects the three cardinal signs viz Cancer. Libra 
C apricorn leaving its 12th sign. A dual sign aspects the three 
dual signs. For example Gemini aspects Virgo. Sagittarius. Pisces. 
Thus the aspect of other signs too could be understood. See the 
table given below. 


Aspecting signs Aspected. signs 
Tas, Soe Raa 


Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces 
Scorpio, Aquarius , Taurus 
Libra. Capricorn, Aries 


Sagittarius. Pisces. Gemini 


Aquarius. Taurus. Leo 


A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 


2 


Aquarius Ayies Cancer Libra 
Pisces 


See the example chart. 


Gemini, Virgo Sagittarius 


The Ascendant is Scorpio which is a fixed sign. The Moon is 
in Capricorn which is a cardinal sign. So the Moon aspects the 
Ascendant, Scorpio and Saturn as well in it. No other planet 
aspects the Ascendant. The Moon aspects the 7th house Taurus 
and the Sun and Mercury. 


Classification of Aspecting Planets(Note: N.L= Navamsa 
Lagna;D.L= Drekkana Lagna.A.L= Arudha Lagna.A.P = 
Aspecting planet): 


Sw NO 


MBSE 


1.A planet aspecting the Ascendant.or its 5th house or its 9th 
house (A.P-1) 

2. A planet aspecting the Ascendant and the 7th house (A P-2) 

3. The lord of the Moon -Sign aspecting the Ascendant or the 
Moon .He is called the Kevala (A P-3). 

4. The lord of the Moon-Sign aspecting both the Ascendant 
and Moon (A.P-4) 


Basics 3 

5. A planet aspecting the Ascendant in Rasi chart and NL in 
Navamsa chart, or a planet aspecting the Ascendant in Rasi chart 
and D.L in Drekkana chart (A.P-5) 

6. A planet aspecting the Ascendant, N.L, DL in the respective 
charts. 

This classification is in the increasing order of bestowing Raja 
yoga. 

The A.P-4, A.P-5, A.P-6 are called the yogada planets. 

Count of Jaimini Navamsa: 

For Aries, Leo. and Sagittarius count direct from Aries. For 
Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn count reversely from Capricom. For 
Gemini, Libra, Aquarius count direct from Libra. For Cancer, 
Scorpio, Pisces, count reversely from Cancer. 

Reckoning of Drekkana: | .parivrittitraya method 2. Direct 
and Reverse method. 


Parivritti traya method 


Ist drekkana 2nd drekkana 3rd drekkana 
Aries Aries Taurus Gemini 
Taurus Cancer Leo Virgo 
Gemini Libra Scorpio Sagittarius 
Cancer Capricorn Aquarius Pisces 

Leo Aries Taurus Gemini 
Virgo Cancer Leo Virgo 
Libra Libra Scorpio Sagittarius 
Scorpio Capricorn Aquarius Pisces 
Sagittarius Aries Taurus Gemini 
Capricorn Cancer Leo Virgo 


Aquarius Libra Scorpio Sagittarius, 


Pisces Capricorn Aquarius Pisces 


4 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Table for Direct and Reverse method of Drekkana 


Sign Ist drekkana | 2nd drekkana | 3rd drekkana 
(1°-10°) (10°-20°) (20°-30°) 


Le Virgo 


Aries 


Chart-1: 21] -5-1927 at 6-30PM. Ascendent=Scorpio 8°; Sun = Is 
8°, Moon =9s 30 Mars =2s.27°, Mercury =1s.8°, Jupiter =I 1s 
4°, Saturn =7s.12° Rahu=2s 12° Rahu =2s.6°.57’ . 


Rasi Chart-1 
21-5-1927 


Jaimini 
Navamsa 


Parivrittitraya 
Drekkana 


Direct and 
reverse 


In the chart-1, the lord of the sign occupied by the Moon is 
Saturn aspecting the Moon. So Saturn is the Kevala (A.P-3).The 
Moon aspects the Ascendant (Scorpio) and its 7th (Scorpio). So 
the Moon is the A-P-2 .The Moon aspects N.L in the Navamsa 
chart also. So the Moon becomes the Yogada. (A.P-5). The Moon 
aspects the DL also in the direct- reverse Drekkana chart. So 
finally the Moon becomes the Yogada. (A.P-6) 


Application of Aspecting planets: (Excluding Rahu 
and Ketu): 


Among the aspecting planets each gives a better yoga than 
its previous gives. In case no planet aspects the Ascendant a planet 
aspecting the 5th house becomes the aspecting planet. If no planet 
aspects the Ascendant and the 5th house, a planet aspecting the 
Sth house of the Ascendant becomes the aspecting planet. This is 
how the A.P-I is found. Suppose a planet does not aspect the 
Ascendant but aspects the 5th house. Ifthis planet aspects the 


6 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
5th house of N.L in the navamsa chart or aspects the 5th house of 
D.L in the drekkana chart this aspecting planet also becomes the 
Yogada (A .P-5). Ifa planet aspects the 5th house of the Ascendant, 
5th house of N.L, and 5th house of D.L in the respective charts 
the same planet becomes the Yogada (A.P-6). Among the 
aspecting planets the A.P-6 gives the the best yoga to the native 
of the chart. An aspecting planet in exaltation in rasi chart gives 
certainly the Raja yoga. But Aries is deprived of this chance as 
no planet in exaltation aspects it. The more the number of planets 
aspecting the Ascendant, the greater the Rajayoga. 


Raja yoga or Dhanayoga is certain: 

by a debilitated planet in the 6th. or 8th aspecting the 
Ascendant. 

by a debilitated planet in the 3rd or IIth aspecting 
theAscendant. 

by a debilitated planet being the lord of the 6th or the 8th of 
the Ascendant aspecting the Ascendant. 


Results Connected With Kevala; (A.P-3): 


I.1f Rahu joins with AP-3 the native takes to cruel deeds. 
2. If Ketu joins he is ugly and righteous. 
3. If the Sun is exalted he is fortunate and may receive awards 
or gifts. 
4. If the Sun is conjunct with A P-3 he is of hot temperament. 
5.1f the Moon is conjunct with A.P-3 he perspires most often. 
6. If Mars is conjunct with A.P-3 he suffers from wounds 
and boils. 
7. If Jupiter is conjunct with A.P-3 he is tawny by complexion 
and may have erect hair on head. 
8. If Venus is conjunct with A.P-3 he has curly hair and is 
passionate. 
9. If Saturnjoins with A.P-3 he has lean physique. 
1. If the Sun and the Moon join A P-3 the native is wicked. 
2. Ifthe Sun and Mars join him he hates his father. 
3. Ifthe Sun and Mercury join him he is good at Vedic 
scriptures. 


Basics 7 

4. If the Sun and Jupiter join him he is the knower of 
philosophy. 

5. If the Sun and Venus join him he is the son of unchaste 
woman. 

6. If Mars and Saturn join him he eschews traditional 
observances. 

7. Tf the Sun and Rahu joim him he is a low man. 

8. If the Sun and Ketu join him he is the devotee of Siva. 

9. If the Moon and Mars join him he has the sexual contact 
with the wife of a brahmin. 

10. If the Moon and Mercury join him he knows 
philosophy. 

11. If the Moon and Venus join him he is luxuriant. 

12. If the Moon and Saturn join him he is fickle minded. 

13. If the Moon and Rahu join him he is the one born to a 
widow. 

14. If the Moon and Ketu join him he is timid and 
distressed. 

15. If Mars and Mercury join him he is much fond of 
wife and children. 

16.1f Mars and Venus join him he has illicit sex with the 
wife of kshatria. 

17. If Mars and Jupiter join him he has illicit sex with the 
wife of his teacher 

18.1f Mars and Saturn join him he has illicit sex with the 
wife with maidservant 

{9. If Jupiter and Mercury join him he is virtuous. 

20. If Mercury and Venus join him he is of aristocratic 
descent. 

21.If Jupiter and Rahu join him he has sexual contact 
with low women 

22. If Mercury and Saturn join him he is wicked and 
arrogant. 

23.If Mercury and Rahu join him he has a carping tongue. 

1. If Rahu is conjunct with the Yogada (A.P-4, A.P-5, AP-6) 

the native is wicked, back biting and slanderous. 


8 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
2. If Ketu is conjunct, he is virtuous and charitable. 
3, If Saturn is conjunct he abandons customary observances. 
4. If Mars is conjunct he is a debauchee. 
5. If Venus is conjunct he is passionate. 
6. If Jupiter is conjunct he is intellectual. 
7. If Mercury is conjunct he is an eloquent speaker. 
8. If the Moon is conjunct he is charming. 
9. If the Sun is conjunct he is wrathful. 


|. If the Sun occupies the 2nd house of the Yogada the native 
is a grammarian. 
2. If the Moon occupies he is good at literature. 
. If Mars occupies it he is a logician or a lawyer. 
. If Mercury occupies it he is a meemamsaka. 
. If Jupiter occupies it he is a philosopher. 
. If Venus occupies it he is good at literature and finearts. 
. If Ketu occupies it he is dumb or stammering. 
. If Saturn occupies it he is dull-witted. 
. IfRahu occupies it he is wicked. 


oman nmn WwW 


] If the Moon and Jupiter occupy the 4th or 5th of Yogada he 
is a reputed author. 

2. If the Moon and Venus occupy it he writes poetry. 

3.1f the Moon and Mercury occupy it he is an author of books. 

4. If the Moon and Mars occupy it he is a poet in Telugu. 

5. If Jupiter and Venus occupy it he is a poet in Sanskrit. 

6. If the Moon and Saturn occupy it he is a poet in Tamil. 

7. If Venus and Rahu occupy it he is a poet in English and 
other languages. 


I. Ifthe 5th houselord is associated with yogada. the native 
will have sons. 

2. If Rahu or Jupiter or the Sun conjoins there, he will 
certainly have sons. 

3. The Moon in the 5th house of yogada gives one son. 


Basics 9 

4. If Gemini or Virgo being the 5th house of yogada, is 
occupied by Mercury and aspected by the waning Moon, he adopts 
a son. 

5. If Ketu occupies the Sth sign of yogada, he will have 
daughters. 

6. Ifthe yogada and the 7th houselord are connected by 
association or aspect, love and affection exist between husband 
and wife. If unconnected they quarrel. 


1. The Sun in the Sth house of yogada, makes the native 
devoted to Siva. 

2. By the Moon. he is the devotee of Devi. 
By Mars, he is the devotee of Kumaraswamy. 
By Mercury, he is a devotee of Vishnu. 
By Jupiter, he is a devotee of Sambasiva. 
By Venus. he is a devotee of Laxmi. 

7. IfGemini or Virgo, being the 5th house of yogada, is 
occupied by Saturn, he belongs to Madhwa philosophy. 

8. If Jupiter occupies or aspects it, he belongs to Sri 
Ramanuja philosophy. 

9. If Venus occupies or aspects it, he is a devotee of the 
Lord Venkateswara. The count of housés could be according to 
the graha chakra. 


NAnF w 


Results of Drekkana Lagna. 


]. Drekkana Lagna (D.L) occupied by an exalted planet 
gives the Rajayoga. 

2. D.Laspected by the Moon confers the Rajayoga. 

3. The aspect of Mercury or Jupiter makes the native 
learned. 

4. The aspect of Venus makes the native fond of music. 

5. The aspect of the yogada to the Ascendant and DL is 
sinequanon for fulfilment of Rajayoga. 

6. Ifthe Moon and Rahu conjoin in one sign and aspect 
D.L, the yoga is marred. 

7. Similar is the case with Saturn and Moon. 


A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 


The following are the results of Drekkana Lagna (D.L): 


1. Aries: Bad skin. If Ketu aspects it. skin disease is 
certain. 

2. Taurus: Always happy. 

3.Gemini: Wealthy and of good complexion. 

4. Cancer: Luxurious and handsome. 

5. Leo: Lean body and suffers from headache. 

6. Virgo: Rich and of good complexion. 

7. Libra: Educated and luxurious. 

8. Scorpio: Financially low and ugly to look at. 


9. Sagittarius: 
10. Capricorn: 


11. Aquarius: 
12. Pisces: 


Clever and educated. 
Foolish. 

Servile manners. 
Litigant. 


1.The D.L occupied by Jupiter and Venus gives profession 
related to education. 

2. The Moon and Venus in D.L confer Rajayoga. 

3. The D.L aspected by Mercury and Jupiter makes the 
native of a preceptor or teacher. 

4. The D.L aspected by the Moon and Mercury make the 
native a preceptor. 

5. The DL occupied by the Sun and aspected by Mercury 
and Jupiter gives the native the teaching profession. 

6. The D.L aspected by Mars makes the native a chief of 
the army. 

7. The D.L aspected by Saturn makes one an ascetic or a 
servant. 

8. Ifthe 2nd of DL is aspected by Mars and Saturn. the 
native becomes a daneer. 

9. Ifthe 2nd of DL is aspected by Mars and Jupiter, the 
native is fond of women. 

10. If the 2nd of D.L is aspected by Mars and Mercury, the 
native becomes a conjurer. 

Il. If the 2nd of DL is aspected by the Sun only, the native 


Basics ll 
knows music. If the Moon also aspects, the native definitely 
becomes a musician. 

12. If the 2nd of DL is occupied by Mars and Mercury and 
aspected by the waning Moon. the native becomes a Jester. 

13. Ifthe 2nd of DL is occupied by Saturn and Rahu and 
aspected by the waning Moon, the native leads a wretched life. 

14. If the 2nd of DL is occupied by Mars and Rahu, the 
native lives by the fire. 

15. If the 2nd of DL is occupied by the waning Moon and 
Rahu, the native becomes (udgari) the one who spits. 

16. The Moon in the 4th of DL makes the native wealthy. 

17. If the Sun and Venus aspect the 4th of DL, the native 
becomes a horseman. 

18. If Jupiter and Venus aspect, the native will have a 
palanquin. 

19. If Mars, Jupiter and Venus occupy the 4th house of DL, 
the native has elephants. 

20. If Satum and Rahu aspect the 4th house of DL, the native 
lives by tending and owning bulls. 


Chapter-2 ARGALAS & RAJA YOGAS 


The argalas should be reckoned from the aspecting planet 
classified in chapter-1. The correct knowledge of the argalas 
enables one to presage the professional, financial and social status 
from the horoscopic chart. It could be as well said that the argala 
concept is the linchpin of the entire gamut of predictions. 

The argala signs are of three categories. |.Principal Argala 
Signs. 2. Secondary Argala Signs. 3. Specific Argala Sign. 

The 2nd, 4th, and 11th signs from the aspecting planet are 
the pincipal argala signs (p.a.s). The 12th, 10th and 3rd signs 
from the aspecting planet are the virodhargala signs (v.a.s) of the 
2nd, 4th, and 11th argala signs respectively. The 5th sign from 
the aspecting planet is the secondary argala sign while the 9th 
sign is the virodhargala sign. The 9th sign from the aspecting 
planet is the secondary argala sign while the 5th sign is the 
virodhargala sign. 


Category Argala signs (A.S) Virodhargala signs (V.A.S) 


Principal 2nd }2th 
4th 10th 
11th 3rd 

Secondary 5th 9th 
Oth 5th 

Specific 3rd Nil 


By three or more malefics 
Subhargala Yogas: (P.A.S=Principal Argala sign) 


The planets occupying the 2nd, 4th, 1]thsigns (P.A.S) can 
form the subhargala yogas when the corresponding virodhargala 
signs viz 12th, 10th. 3rd lie vacant. It means that if both the A.S 
and VAS are occupied the planets, the argalas formed are only 
aabhasa doing no good. Suppose, ifa planet occupies the 2nd 
house from an aspecting planet, Subhargala yoga forms. This 


Argalas & Raja Yogas 13 
gives dhana yoga. But this gets cancelled if the 12thsign also of 
the aspecting planet is occupied by a planet or planets. Similar is 
with the 4th and 1] th argala signs. How ever the number of planets 
if present in the V.A.S is less than those in the P.A.S. the subhargala 
yoga does not get marred. 

If the Sth sign (S.A.s) from an aspecting planet is occupied 
only by the benefics.while the 9th sign(V.A.S) lies vacant, a 
subhargala yoga forms.Similarly if the 9th sign is occupied by 
the benefics, while the Sth lies vacant, a subhargala yoga forms. 
However if the occupant is a malefic exalted in Sth or 9th, while 
the other falls vacant subhargala yoga forms. 

If the 3rd sign from the aspecting planet is occupied by three 
or more malefics, a nirabhasaargalayoga forms, irrespective of 
the planets present or absent in the 11th sign. Thus we find the 
three different categories of the argala signs are involved 
differently in the formation of subhargala yogas, one by the 
malefics or benefics or both the other by the benefics and the 3rd 
by the malefics only. 

N.B. Two points worth remembering-1 .Rahu or Ketu in the 
argala signs do not contribute to the formation of the subhargala 
yogas. 2. They certainly mar the yoga if associated with the planets 
in the argala signs.3.The argala signs should be invariably 
reckoned from an aspecting planet. 


Assessment of subhargala potential: 


1. Assess the subhargala potential by the six orders of the 
aspecting planet the | st beg the lowest the 6th being the highest. 

2-Assess the subhargala potential by the merits and demerits 
of the aspecting planet. 

Merits: | .Exaltationor own house position of the aspecting 
planet. 

2. Association of the Moon with the aspecting planet. 

3. Association of the exalted planet with the A.P 

Demerits: 1. The subhargala potential falls if Rahu is 
associated with the aspecting planet. 
2. The subhargala potential decreases by the association of 
decreases by the association of Ketu with the aspecting planet. 


14 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

3. The subhargala potential decreases if the aspectingv planet 
is debilitated. 

4. Rahu in the 5th or 9th from the aspecting planet reduces 
the subhargala potential. 

5. Rahu in the 8th or 12th from the aspecting planet is not a 
welcome feature. 

The subhargala potential can also be classified into three 
orders: Superior, Medium, Ordinary. 

Superior order: |. Involvement of the benefics in the argala 
signs. 2. Involvement of three or more planets in the argala signs.3. 
Involvement of the planets in the three argala signs 

Medium order: 1. Involvement of benefics and malefics in 
the argala signs. 

2. Involvement of two planets in the argala signs. 

3 Involvementof two planets in any two argala signs. 
Ordinary: |.Involvement of malefics in the argala sign. 2. 
Involvement of one planet in the argala sign. 

Reckoning principle: Reckon the argala signs in the regular 
order trom the aspecting planets only, but never from the signs to 

judge the subhargala yogas. Judge them if formed by the reverse 
reckoning of the argala signs from the aspecting planet placed in 
an even sign. 


Results of subhargala yogas in general: 


Good position in life; financial status and reputation. Benefics 
give very sound financial position. Both benefics and malefics 
indicate unsteady financial status. Malefics indicate the average 
position. 


Illustrations: 
Chart-1: DOB=8-8-1912 Ascendant=Aquarius 


Argalas & Raja Yogas 15 

In the chart-I the Ascendant is Aquarius (fixedsign) aspected 
by the Sun in Cancer (cardinal sign) and no other planet aspects 
the Ascendant. So the Sun is the aspecting planet (A.P-1).From 
the Sun the 2nd sign (Leo) is occupied by Mars, Mercury and 
Venus. the Sth sign(Scorpio) is occupied by Jupiter(benefic) and 
the 11th sign is occupied by the Moon and Saturn in Taurus. So 
the three argala signs viz 2nd, 5th and 1] th are involved. All the 
three are the fixed signs and six planets are involved in the three 
argala to give the subhargala yoga. The planets involved in the 
three argala signs are both benefics and malefics. Note three argala 
signs gave the subhargala yoga because the corresponding V.A.S 
are not occupied by the planets. The chart-1 belongs to B.V.Raman 
who was the doyen of astrologers. 

Chart-2: D.O.B=11-10-1942 at 4pm. 


Rasi Chart-2 


11-10-1942 


The chart-2 belongs to the renowned megastar Amitabh 
Bachchan. 

In his Rasi chart his Ascendant is Aquarius aspected by the 
exalted Jupiter. 

So Jupiter is A.P-] .FromJupiter the 3rd sign Virgo is occupied 
by three malefics forming nirabhasa argala rajayoga. Note Venus 
by debilitation becomes the malefic. The Moon occupies the 4th 
argala sign from A.P-1] (Jupiter). 

Chart-3:21-5-1927 6-30P.M (for details see chart-1 in 
section-1). In the chart-3 the Ascendant is Scorpio aspected by 
the Moon.The Moon aspects N.L in navamsa chart and D.L in 
the drekkana chart.Hence the Moon becomes the yogada 


16 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

(A.P-6). The 5th house from the Moon is Taurus occupied by 
two planets(Mcrcury,Sun).The aspecting planet is of the highest 
order but only one argala sign(secondary) is involved.Saturn is 
Kevala two argalas namely Hth(Moon) and 9th(lupiter) are 
involved to form the subhargala yoga. 


Rasi Chart-3 


21-5-1927 


The native is an author of books on astrology and is a Sanskrit 
poet. Note the I1th and 3rd houses from the Moon (A.P-6) are 
occupied by Saturn and Moon and hence the principal argala 
rajayoga is marred. 

Argala Rajayogas: 

Poornargala 

Tripadargala 

Ardhargala 

Padargala 


1. Poornargala Rajayoga: 


This is in the case of the yogada(A.P-3,A.P-4,A.P-5,A.P-6) 
in a cardinal sign. Reckon the argala signs from the yogada or 
kevala. If any three argala signs coinciding with the cardinal, fixed, 
and dual signs are occupied by the planets the s.a.y so formed is 
called the Poornargala Rajayoga This yoga is effective when the 


corresponding v.a.s lies vacant. 


Argalas & Raja Yogas 17 
2.Tripadargala Rajayoga: 

This is the case of the yogada in a fixed sign. Reckon the 
argala signs from the yogada. If any two argala signs coinciding 
with the cardinal and fixed, or cardinal and dual or fixed and dual 
occupied by the planets thes.a.y. so formed is known as 
Tripadargala Rajayoga. This is effective if the corresponding 
v..a..$. lie vacant or when unobstructed by the weaker planets or 
less number of planets in the v..a.s. The Tripadargala Rajayoga 
becomes the Poornargala Rajayoga when another argala sign also 
is involved with the planets in it. 


3.Ardhargala Rajayoga: 


This is the case of the yogada in a dual sign. If the 2nd or 4th 
or |] th argala sign is occupied by the planets, the s.a.y becomes 
the Ardhargala Rajayoga. If one or more argala sign is involved it 
becomes the Tripadargala Rajayoga. If two argala signs are 
involved the Ardhargala becomes the Poomargala Raja yoga. 


4. Padargala Rajayoga: 


Ifthe Sth or 9th argala sign from the yogada is occupied by 
the benefic planets or by a malefic planet in exaltation. while the 
corresponding v.a.s lies vacant a Padargala Raja yoga could be 
formed.The involvement of the padargala would in any case 
catalyse the class of the Argala Raja yoga to give good reputation. 
Persons born in Poornargala and Tripadargala Rajayogas become 
distinguished personalities at national and international level. 
Those born in Ardhargala and Padargala Rajayogas will be placed 
well in life with wealth. The following are the extended principles 
of Ardhargala and Padargala Raja yogas. 

|.From the A.P, the benefics in the I Oth and Sth or 9th when 
the 4th lies vacant 

2. Benefics in the 7th and 5th or 9th. 

3. By exalted yogada. 

4. Yogada associated with the Moon. 


18 A Manual ofJaimini Astrology 
Chart-4 Mahatma Gandhi D.O.B 2 10 1869 
Ascendant=Libra. Moon=4s.}d.lOm. 


Rasi Chart-4 a | 


2-10-1869 
Moon 


Ven;Mars} Sun 
Merc 


In the Rasi chart-4 the Ascendant is aspected by the Moon. 
The Moon aspects D.L in the drekkana chart also. Hence the 
Moon becomes the yogada (A.P-5).From the Moon the 2nd is 
occupied by the Sun. the 4th is occupied by Saturn and the 9th is 
occupied by Jupiter. Thus the cardinal, the fixed, and the dual 
argalas are involved. Intact any two argala signs will do well for 
the Tripadargala Raja yoga because the yogada is in the fixed 
sign. Since the third different argala sign also is involved the 
Poornargala Rajayoga is formed. Gandhiji was one of the great 


world personalities and is venerated as Mahatma. 


Chart-5: Pandit Nehru. D.O.B= 14-11-1889, 11.03 pm. 
LS.T 


Rasi Chart-5 


14-11-1869 


Argalas & Raja Yogas 19 

Ascendant = Cancer 24d.25m, Sun=7s. 1 d.43m. In the chart- 
5 of Pandit Nehru. the Ascendant is Cancer aspected by the Sun. 
The NL in the navamsa chart is also aspected by the Sun. So the 
Sun is the yogada (A.P-5). Reckoned reversely from the Sun the 
2nd A.S is occupied by Mercury and Venus, the 4th A.S is 
occupied by Saturn and the 5th A.S is occupied by the Moon. 
Since the yogada (A.P-S) is in the fixed sign and two cardinal 


signs and one fixed sign are involved the Tripadargala becomes 


the Poornargala Raja yoga. 


Chart-6: Swamy Vivekananda. D.O.B - 12- 1-1863, 6- 
31.AM LMT 


Ascendant = Sagittarius 25d.30m, Saturn = 5s-13d. N.L= 
Scorpio. In the chart-6 the Ascendant Sagittarius is aspected by 
Saturn conjunct with the Moon. The N.L in the navamsa chart 
also is aspected by Saturn. So Saturn is the yogada (A.P-5). From 
the A.P-5 the 2nd 4th and Sth argala signs are occupied by the 
planets. The Ardhargala Raja yoga becomes the Poornargala 
Rajayoga in the case of Swamy Vivekananda. (See the rule-3 


Ardhargala Rajayoga). 


20 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Chart-7: Rabindranath Tagore: D.O.B= 7-5-1861; 2-51 
AM; Asc = Pisces 4d 50m; Mars = 2s Od 10m. 


Rasi Chart-7 


7-5-1861 


In the chart of Rabindranath Tagore the Ascendant is Pisces 
aspected by Mars in the dual sign Gemini. Mars also aspects the 
NL (Leo) in the navamsa chart. So Mars is the yogada (A.P- 
5).The 2nd argala sign is Cancer occupied by the exalted Jupiter 
and 11 th argala sign Aries by Mercury, Venus and the exalted 
Sun. No planet is in the V.A.S. the Ardhargala yoga became the 
Tripadargala Rajayoga. 

Chart-8: Vinoba bhave; D.O.B=11-9-1895 at 7-11PM. 
Ascendant = Pisces 17d.54m. 


The Ascendant is aspected by Mars, debilitated Venus and 
exalted Mercury.The A.P-5 is Venus andThe Tripadargala 
Rajayoga is formed by the 1 1th and 9th argalas reckoned from 
A.P-5,. 


22 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Chart-11: D.O.B=16-9-1945, 11-47 A.M. Ascendant= 
Gemini 20d.10m. Jupiter=Ss.10d.26m 


Asc 
Mars 
Rahu 


Ven 
RasiChart-ir | 53! 


16-9-1945 
Mere 


In the chart-11 of the present Finance Minister, P. 
Chidambaram. the Ascendant is Gemini. Jupiter is the A.P-4, the 
lord of the Moon-Sign aspecting the Ascendant and the Moon. 
From A.P-4 the 1] th A.S is occupied by Venus and Saturn forming 
Ardhargala Rajayoga. 

Chart-12: D.O.B=8-7-1914 


Rasi Chart-12 


8-7-1914 


Ascendant is Virgo aspected by the Sun and Saturn. Saturn 
the lord of the sign occupied by the Moon aspects DL in the 
drekkana chart. So from the Sun and Saturn the 2nd argala sign 
is occupied by Venus and Mercury forming Ardhargala Rajayoga. 

The chart-12 belongs to Jyoti Basu the then longest serving 
Chief Minister of West Bengal. 


Argalas & Raja Yogas 
Chart-13: D.O.B=4-7-1898. 


In the chart-13 of Gulzarilal Nanda. The Ascendant is Aries. 
Satum the lord of the sign occupied by the Moon aspects the 
Moon and the Ascendant. So Satum is A .P-4. Since Saturn aspects 
also the N.L in the navamsa chart.so A P-4 became A-P-5 also. 
From A.P-5 in the fixed sign the 9th argala sign is occupied by 
the benefic Venus causing Padargala Rajayoga. 

Chart-14: D.O.B=28-6-1921 at 13hrs; Ascendant = Virgo 
24d.23m; Sun= 2s.13d.16m; Moon=lls.10d.30m 


The Sun and the Moon aspect the Ascendant in the Rasi chart 
and the N.L in the navamsa chart. So the Sun and the Moon are 
A.P-5.from which the 2nd A.S is occupied Venus and the4th A.S 
is occupied by Sun Mars and Mercury. The Moon is in the dual 
sign and since two argala signs are involved Tripadargala 
Rajayoga is formed. The. Chart-14 belongs to P.V Narsimha Rao 


24 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
the sober Statesman from South India was the Prime Minister of 
India for a full term. A powerful Rajayoga is also formed by the 
same planet aspecting the Ascendant. Hora Lagna and Ghatika 
Lagna. 

Hora Lagna is of two kinds: I. Parivrittidwaya Hora Lagna. 

2. Savayava Hora Lagna. 

1. The twelve signs have 24 Horas. The first 6 signs from 
Aries to Virgo will have 12 Horas and the same are repeated 
from Libra to Pisces. lt means thus-The 1 st Hora of Aries is Aries 
and the 2nd Hora of Aries is Taurus. The Ist Hora of Taurus is 
Gemini and 2nd Hora of Taurus is Cancer. See the table below 
for Privrittidwaya Hora Lagna. 


Sign 1st Hora (Ild-15d) 2nd Hora (15d-30m) 
Aries Aries Taurus 
Taurus Gemini Cancer 
Gemini Leo Virgo 
Cancer Libra Scorpio 
Leo Sagittarius Capricorn 
Virgo Aquarius Pisces 
Libra Aries Taurus 
Scorpio Gemini Cancer 
Sagittarius Leo Virgo 
Capricorn Libra Scorpio 
Aquarius Sagittarius Capricom 
Pisces Aquarius Pisces 


In the chart-14 of P. V. Ascendant is Virgo 24d.So Virgo is in 
the 2nd Hora Pisces so Parivrittitrya Hora lagna is Pisces. 

Savayava Hora lagna (Calculation): Time of birth is 1 .Pm. 
So birth hours=7hr-27m.Sun cise=5-33 Sunset=5-33 Diurnal 
duration= 13hr-O5m. So 13.05 divided by 12 therefore 
Q= 1 hr.0Smts 7hrs-27mts divided by 1 hr-O5mts Q=6. Hence the 
quotient 6+1=7 So the 7th sign from the Ascendant is Pisces 
which becomes the Savayava Hora Lagna. It is 26d. 13m. 


Argalas & Raja Yogas 25 

In the chart of PV a grand Rajayoga is formed by the aspect 
of three planets (Mars. Mercury Sun) to the three Lagnas 
(Ascendant. Hora Lagna and Ghatika Lagna) 

Some special Lagnas—: 

Divya Lagna: Add the longitudes of Ascendant lord and 
yogada or kevala. 

Subtractl2 signs ifthe sum exceeds 12. Count the number 
from the Ascendant in the order of padakrama.If both the yogada 
and kevala are absent take the lord of the Moon-Sign. Ex: The 
Ascendant is Scorpio .Longitude of Mars=2s.26d. Longitude of 

Kevala=7s. 11 d.On adding we get !0s.7d.Sothe 11 th sign by 
padakrama from the 

Ascendant is Capricorn (Scorpio, Aries, Virgo, Aquarius. 
Cancer, Sagittarius, Taurus, Libra, Pisces, Leo and Capricorn, 
11th) 

In the chart of P. V the Ascendant is Virgo, Yogada is the Sun. 

Longitude of Mercury (Ascendant lord)=2s.27d.22m 

Longitude of Yogada (Sun) =2s.13d.16m 

On adding we get5s. 10d.38m. So the 6th sign from Virgo in 
padakrama is Gemini which becomes Divya Lagna.Rajayoga is 
attained if Divya Lagna is occupied or aspected by an exalted 
planet or benefic planets.Divya Lagna connected with malefics 
or debilitated planets spoils the Rajayoga and gives troubles. 

In the horoscope of Pandit Nehri the Ascendant is Cancer 
and the yogada is the Sun. 

Longitude of Ascendant lord=3s. 17d.20m 

Longitude of the yogada =7s. | d43m 

Onadding =10s.19d.03m: 

Hence the I1th sign from the Ascendant (Cancer) is Taurus 
which becomes Divya lagna aspected by the benefics Venus. 
Mercury. Moon. 


26 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Indu Lagna: 


Find out the lord of the 9th house of the Ascendant.Find the 
lord of the 9th house from te sign occupied by the Moon. Add the 
kalas of both and divide the sum by 12.The remainder counted 
from the sign occupied by the Moon or from the Ascendant which 
ever is stronger gives Indu Lagna..; The kalas are as follows- 
Sun=30; Moon=16; Mars=6; Mercury=8: Jupiter=IO: 
Venus= !2Saturn=1 

Extention of principle:Reckon the 9th house direct if the 
Ascendant is an odd sign or reverse if it is even. Reckon the 9th 
house direct from the Moon if the Moon is in the odd sign or 
reverse if the Moon is in the even sign. Count the remainder direct 
from the Ascendant or the Moon if it is odd or reverse if it is even 
sign. 

Results: !. Indu Lagna occupied by the benefics or the exalted 
planet-koteswara yoga. 2. Indu Lagna occupied by malefics- 
owner of thousands. 

3.InduLagna occupied by both benefics and malefics-owner 
of Lakhs. 

Tripravana Lagna: Add the the longitudes of Ascendant 
lord and the Moon. If the number of signs exceeds }2 remove the 
I2signs.Now add the longitude of the Ascendant lord to get 
Tripravana Lagna. 

Ex: Longitude of the Ascendant lord=2s.26d 

Longitude of Moon =9s.3d 
Total =11s29d 

Now 11 s.29d+2s.26d (longitude Ascendant lord)=14s.25d- 
12=2s.25d. 

Gemini the third sign in the zodiac becomes Tripravana lagna. 

Tripravanalagna occupied by the benefics or by exalted planet 
gives Rajayoga. If it is occupied by malefics it gives poverty. 
Rahu in the Tripravanalagna may cause danger from water 


Argalas & Raja Yogas 27 
Tara Lagna: 


Find out the elapsed vimsottari dasa at birth.Convert this into 
months and divide it by the number of years of dasa lord. The 
quotient plus one gives Tara lagna when counted from the 
Ascendant. If Ketu is the dasalord. count the number in the reverse 
from the Ascendant to get Tara lagna. 

1. Sreemanta yoga forms if 

a) an exalted or debilitated planet is in the Tara lagna. b) the 
lord of Tara lagna is exalted or debilitated. c) occupied by the 
waxing Moon. d) planetary dasa lord is exalted(Moon’s star lord.) 

Dhana yoga forms if 

a) Tara lagna is occupied by its own lord or by a friendly 
planet. 

b) the lord of Tara lagna is in own house or friend's house 

c) planetary dasa lord is in own house or in friend’ house 

Nirdhana yoga forms if 

Tara lagna is occupied by an inimical planet 

The lord of Tara lagna is in an inimical sign. 

The native born in Srimantha yoga becomes fabulously rich 
and or placed in high govt post.2.The native with dhana yoga will 
have high financial position.3.The native born in nirdhana yoga 
becomes poor. 


Chapter-3 KARAKAMSA 


Jaimini Maharshi gives us only 4 fixed karakas.They are 
Mars.MercuryJupiter and Venus. Mars is the fixed karaka for 
sister,wife’s brother, younger brother and mother Mercury is the 
fixed karaka for uncles, relatives, step mother. For father's father. 
husband and son Jupiter is the fixed karaka. 

Venus is the fixed karaka for wife, parents, mother-in-law, 
father-in-law and mother's father. 

The variable karakas are 7in number.They are atma, amatya, 
bhratru, matru, Putra, jnati, dara. Find out the longitudes of seven 
planets-Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus.The planet 
attaining the highest longitude is the atmakaraka.The remaining 
six planets become the six karakas in the descending order of 
degrees. Hence according to the decreasing order of degrees, the 
variable karakas are atma, amatya bhratru, matru, putra, jnati, 
dara. 

Ex: Sun=1s.8d, Moon=9s.3d, Mars=2s.27d, Mercury=1s.7d, 
Jupiter=!1s 4d, Venus=2s. 18d, Satum=7s. 12d. So Mars attained 
the highest degrees (27d). 

Thus Mars becomes the atma. Venus is the amatya, Satum is 
the bhratru, 

Sun is the matru, Jupiter is the jnati and the Moon is the dara. 

Sometimes the 7 karakas may have to be determined among 
the 8 planets when two planets attain equal number of degrees. 
Here Rahu also is considered. But Rahu is not eligible to become 
the atma karaka. The sign occupied by the atmakaraka in the 
navamsa chart is known as karakamsa or karakamsa lagna. 


Karakamsa 29 
Results of karakamsa Lagna: 


}. Aries karakamsa-trouble from rats.2. Taurus karakamsa- 
fear from quadrapeds. 3. Gemini karakamsa-corpulence, if a 
malefic aspects it, eczema and itches may develop. 4.Cancer 
karakamsa- dropsy or ascites by the aspect of benefics or black 
leprosy if the malefics aspect. 5. Leo karakamsa-dog- bite. 6. 
Virgo karakamsa-itch or corpulence,ifa malefic aspects it fire- 
accident is probable.7. Libra karakamsa=business.8. Scorpio 
karakamsa(0d-] 5d)-danger from water. (1 5d-30d)=danger from 
reptiles.9.Sagittarius karakamsa-gradual fall from a highplace or 
from a vehicle 1 0.Capricorn karakamsa-danger from leeches or 
crocodiles if aspected by aquatic planets, if aspected by khechara 
planets danger from spirits,if aspectesd by two or more malefics- 
fistula.scrofula or tumour.The Moon and Venus are the aquatic 
planets. Saturn and Mercury are the khechera planets. 1] Aquarius 
karakamsa-fall in still water or well or he may build tanks wells. 
12. Pisces karakamsa-virtuous. 

Results of 2nd house of karakamsa: I: Sun in te 2nd house- 
political life, if exalted-a minister or high govt.officer, if debilitated. 
defeat in politics. 2. by full Moon and Venus-luxurious and erudite 
3.by Mars(Od-10d)-metallargy and chemicals. In 10d-20d-wears 
a weapon. In20d-30d-cooking goldsmithy blacksmithy. 4. 
Mercury= Od to-7-1/2d:businessman.7-1/2-15d= weaver. 
clothmerchant.15d-22-I/2d= sculptor. 22-1/2d-30d=litigant. 
Jupiter inOd-1 Od=man of action, ]0d-20d=man of wisdom. 20d- 
30= Vedic scholar 6. Venus 0d-] 0d= politician or govt.employee. 
10d-20d=passionate, 20-30= 100 years.7 Saturn in Od-20d= body 
guard,20d-30d=thief or a cheat.8.Rahu Od-6d=ancestral 
vocation,6d-12d=bodyguard, 12d-18d=thief, 18d-24d=druggist, 
24d-30d=works in factories.{fSaturn and Rahu occupy the 2nd 
house-the native chews betel leaves or sells them. 9. ketu-Od- 
15d= trade of elephants 15d.30=thief 10. Ketu in rhe 2nd aspected 
by malefics=ear problem.! | Ketu in the 2nd aspected by Venus 
he may perform yajnas. 12. Ketu in the 2nd aspected by Mercury 


30 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
and Saturn the native is a eunuch. 13. Ketu in the 2nd aspected 
by Mercury and Venus te native talks Repeatedly or may be born 
to a woman married again. 14.Ketuin the 2nd aspected by another 
malefic -he is an ascetic. 15. Ketu in the 2nd aspected by Saturn 
the native is a Fake ascetic. [6. Ifthe Sun and Venus together 
aspect the 2nd house of karakamsa the Native becomes a govt. 
servant. 

3rd House of Karakamsa: [ .A malefic planet in the 3rd house 
makes the native brave. 

2. A benefic in the3rd mkes native timid.3.If the malefics 
occupy the 3rd house and the 6th house the native is a cultivator 
oflands.4.Malefics in the3rd and 6th and Jupiter in the 9th gives 
Raja yoga. 

Results of 4th house of Karakamsa: |.Moon in the 4th 
house=sailor and if the Moon is asapected by Venus the native is 
anavigator. The same may be said if if the Moon is in Sagittarius 
aspected by Venus.2.If the Moon alone occupies the 4th hous 
and is aspected by the Sun and Rahu-snakebite;it could be averted 
by the aspect of a benefic.but if a benefic alone is associated thre 
the native is a curer of snakebite or a dealer of antidotes.3 If the 
Moon alone occupies the 4th of karakamsa aspected by Mars 
and unaspected by any other planet, his house burns away or he 
sets fire to other's house. if the benefics also aspect, the house 
may be halfburnt.4.If benefics along with Venus aspect the above. 
the danger of fire accident will be averted.5.Ifthe 4th house of 
karakamsa is occupied by the Moon and aspected by Mars and 
Jupiter.the house adjacent to the native's house may catch fire.6.If 
the Moon and Venus occupy or aspect 4th house of karakamsa 
the native owns palatial building.7.If the 4th hose is occupied by 
an exalted planet though unconnected with the Moon and Venus 
by aspect or association the native owns a palatial building.8.If 
the 4th house is connected with and is is aspected by Saturn and 
Rahu the native owns a.building built of stone.9.If ketu and Mars 


Karakamsa 31 
instead of Saturn and Rahu the house could be made of 
brick. 1 O.Jupiter in the 4th of karakamsa gives the house built 
with more of woodwork. I] .The sun in 4th house gives a hut but 
if the Sun.is aspected by the debilitated Moon the native's birth 
would be in the house of thatched roof: A palatial building is 
indicated by the Moon and Venus. Jupiter shows self-earned 
building.Rahu’s connection shows building constructed by 
others.The aspect of Sun shows govt.quarters.Saturn shows the 
earned by service to others. 

7th House of Karakamsa: 1. If the Moon and Jupiter conjoin 
the 7th house the native's wife looks beautiful.The aspect of 
Jupiter and Moon is more influential than occupancy in this 
respect. 2. The aspect or occupancy of Rahu on the 7th house 
makes native debauch with a widow.3 If Saturn occupies thr7th 
house make three predictions. 1 .Od-1 Od=the native's wife is older 
than thanthe native. 2.10d-20d= wife is sickly. 3.20d-30d=wife 
more inclined to sexual pleasure.4.by the occupancy of Mars the 
native's wife is deformed.5 If the Sun occupies the 7th.the native's 
wife will have secret guilty intrigue with the man in his caste or 
family. 6. By Mercury in the 7th hous4 the native's wife is 
educated or good at dance or.music. 


Some speak of sexual pleasure by planets connected with the 
4th of karakamsa. 

By the Moon in the 4th the native enjoys sexual pleasure in 
an open space.Ifthe 4th is. Sagittarius occupied by Moon 
thenative enjoys sexual union in an open space near watery region. 
The Sun in the 4th indicates the garden as a place of sexual 
union.Mars indicates the place near the wall.Mercury indicates 
the park. Jupiter indicates the temple premises. Venus indicates 
the sport in water. Saturn and Rahu indicate the tavern. 

9th House of Karakamsa 

1. By the aspect or association of abenefic planet in yhe 9th 
house make three predictions:0d-10d=virtious. | Od- 


32 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
20d=truthful.20d-30d=devoted to preceptor 2. By the aspect or 
association of a malefic the native lacks in the qualities mentioned 
above. 

3.1f both Saturn and Rahu conjoin in the 9th house the native 
proves treacherous to his teacher. 4. 1f the Sun and Rahu conjoin 
in the 9th house of karakamsa the native is ungrateful to his teacher. 
5. If the 9th house is connected with the aspect or association of 
Mars and Venus the native is an adulterer. 6. lf Ketu joins or 
aspects the 9th house he is not a lifelong adulterer. 7. Jupiter in 
the 9th house makes the native fond of women. 8. If the 9th house 
is connected with Mars Venus. and Rahu by aspect or association 
the native sqanders money for sexual debauchery. 

12 th House of Karakamsa: 1. Benefics in the 12th house 
show the attainment of higher regions of the universe.Ketu in the 
12thgives final emancipation soul.lf Pisces or Cancer or Aries or 
Sagittarius is the 12th house and is occupied by Ketu the native 
attains Mukti. 

If the 12 is occupied by the malefics the native falls into hell. 
Devotion to gods by the planetary placement in the 12thhouse of 
Karakamsa is as follows. 

Sun and Ketu=Siva, Moon=Gowri Venus=Laxmee, 
Mars=Skanda. Mercury and Satum=Vishnu, Jupiter=Sambasiva. 
Rahu=Durga, Ketu=Ganesh. Saturn in the malefic 12th gives 
devotion to the low deities. 

The planet next to the atmakaraka in orde of degrees is the 
amatya karaka. Take the 6th planet from the amatyakaraka in the 
order of te Sun. Moon. Mars. Mercury Jupiter, Venus, Saturn. If 
the 6th planet is in the malefic sign karakamsa the native has 

Devotion to the low deities. By the malefics in the 5th and 
9th of karakamsa te native is a Sorcerer. 

Vocation: | .The moon in karakamsa aspected by Venus the 
native is a chemist. The Moonin karakamsa aspected by Mercury 
makes native a doctor. 


Karakamsa 33 
Disease: If Cancer or Sagittarius is the karakamsa with the 
Moon in it receiving the aspect of Venus the native suffers from 
jaundice 2. Instead of the aspect of Venus if it were the aspect of 
Mars.te native suffers from a chronic disease. 3. By the aspect of 
Ketu the native suffers from black leprosy. 4. If the karakamsa or 
its 3rd house is occupied by Mars and Rahu the native suffers 
from tuberculosis.5 If the karakamsa or its 3rd house is occupied 
by Mars the native suffers from pimples, boils. or ulcers. 6. By 
Ketu make two predictions.0d-15d=dysentery, 15d-30d = 
coldness. 

Authorship: | .The Moon and Jupiter in the karakamsa or in 
its 5th house- author of books. 2. The Moon and Venus or Venus 
and Jupiter-author 3. Moon and Mercury orMercury and Jupiter- 
author 4.Venus alone in karakamsa or 5th house make three 
predictions-Od-10d=poet 10d-20d= orator, 20d-30d=poet or 
scholarofpoetics. 

5. Jupiter in karakamsa or 5th house-Od-1 Sd=versatile scholar 
.15d-30= writer. 6. Saturn in karakamsa or Sth house=stage- 
fright.7. By Mercury he is a meemamsaka 8. By Mars-a logician 
or a lawyer 8.Moon inld-15d = knower of sankhyayoga or 
statistics ]5d-30d= musician 9.bySun in 1d-15d=philosopher in 
1 5d-30d=knows musicology. 

10. By Ketu he is good at mathematics. |1.1fketu occupies 
the 2nd house and is aspected by the malefics the native stutters. 


Chapter- 4 ARUDHA 


Arudha : The pada is widely known as the arudha lagna. 
Thenumber of signs from the sign to its lord's: placement should 
be counted again from the sign-lord to get the pada of the sign. 
This is the main principle for reckoning the arudha lagna.For 
example Aries is the Ascendant and its lord Mars is in Taurus. 
Since Taurusis the 2nd sign from Aries the 2nd sign again from 
Taurus is Gemini which becomes the lagna pada or arudha Lagna. 
Suppose Mars is in Gemini, the 3rd sign from Aries. Then Leo 
becomes the arudha lagna. Suppose Mars is in Cancer, the 4th 
from Aries. Then Libra becomes the arudha. That is how the 
arudha lagna is reckoned for all the houses. 

Exceptions: |. If the lord of the ascendant is in the 4th 
house,the 4th house becomes the arudha lagna.2 If the lord of the 
Ascendant is in its 7th house the 10th house becomes. 

The arudha lagna.These two exceptions should be fairly 
adhered in the case of the dual signs.The following are the four 
cases of the first exception. 

].If the Ascendant is Gemini and if its lord ,Mercury is in 
Virgo, Virgo becomes the arudha lagna. 

2 Gemini becomes.the arudha lagna if the Ascendant is 
inVirgo and if its lord, Mercury occupies the 4th house 
Gemini.Note thatGemini is the 4th sign from Virgo counted 
reversely because4 Virgo is an even sign. 

3. Pisces becomes the arudha lagna if the Ascendant is 
Sagittarius if its lord Jupiter occupies the 4th house.Pisces. 

4 Sagittarius becomes the arudha lagna if the Ascendant is 
Pisces and if its lordJupiter occupies the 4th house Sagittarius 
because Sagittarius is the 4th sign from Pisces counted reversely 
because Pisces is an even sign. 


34 


Arudha 35 

The following are the four cases of the 2nd exception. 

1. If the Ascendant is Gemini and if Mercury occupies its 7th 
Sagittarius the ]10thhouse Pisces becomes the arudha lagna. 

2.1fthe Ascendant is Virgo and if Mercury occupies its 7th 
Pisces. the 10th house Sagittarius becomes becomes the arudha 
lagna. 

3. 1f the Ascendant is Sagittarius and if Jupiter occupies its 
7th house the 10th house Virgo becomes the arudha lagna. 

4.If the Ascendantb is Pisces and if Jupiter occupies its 7th 
house ,the 10th house Virgo becomes the arudha lagna. 

In Male Horoscopes:. If the Ascendant is an odd sign find 
out the arudha lagna of the Ascendant. If the Ascendant is an 
even sign find out the arudha lagna of its sammukha. 

Sign. For xample in male chart the Ascendant is Gemini. 
Then find out the arudha lagna of Gemini since Gemini is an odd 
sign. For example in male chart the Ascendant is Taurus. Then 
find out the arudha lagna of Libra (the sammukha sign of Taurus 
is Libra.) since the Ascendant (Taurus) is an even sign. 

In Female Horoscopes: If the Ascendant is an even sign, find 
out the arudha lagna of the Ascendant. If it is an even sign. find 
out the arudha lagna of its sammukha sign. The odd signs are 
Aries ,Gemini,Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, Aquarius. The even signs 
are Taurus, Cancer Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, Pisces. 

Pairs of sammukha signs: Aries-Scorpio, Taurus-Libra, 
Cancer-Aqarius. Leo- Capricorn, Virgo-Gemini, Libra- Taurus. 
Scorpio-Aries, Sagittarius-Pisces, Capricorn- 

Leo, Aquarius-Cancer, Pisces - Sagittarius. 

Means of getting money by 11 th of arudha lagna: 

1. Jupiter.Moon.and Rahu- nidhi Jabha(gain of treasure) 2. 
Moon and Venus-money from govt money. 3. The Sun in the 
1] th being Aries or Scorpio- money through brother 4. Mercury 
and Saturn in the 1]thaspected by Rahu- money in dilapidated 
house or temple. 5. Sun in the I ]th being Sagittarius or Pisces- 
money through sons. 6. Sun in the 11th being Gemini or Virgo- 
money through kinsmen. 7. Sun in } th being Aquarius Capricorn 
or Cancer -self- earned .money. 8. Sun in 11th being Taurus. 


36 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Libra Leo - money from govt. 9. Debilitated benefic in the | th- 
money from abroad. 10. Mercury with debilitated or exalted planet 
or malefic -money from abroad. 11.Jupiter in the 1] th debilitated 
in navamsa or drekkana -money from abroad. 12. Mars. Sun. 
Rahu in 1]th- money from low and despised. 13. Mercury and 
Moon in 1] th- money from lowpeople. 14. Jupiter in 11thbeing 
own house -money by education or litigation. 15. Jupiter in 11th 
being Aries or Scorpio - gets money in the mint. 16. Jupiter in 11 th 
being Libra or Taurus - gets money from wife. 17. Jupiter in 
11 th being Virgo or Gemini -money by educaton. 18. Jupiter in 
1]th being Leo or Cancer -money from govt. 19. Jupiter in 11th 
being Capricorn or Aquarius -money by service. 20. Venus in 
11 th being Aries, Scorpio Libra Taurus -money by business. 21. 
Venus in 11th being Gemini or Virgo -money by land cultivation. 
22. Saturn in 1] th being Aries or Scorpio -money by? 1 legal means. 
23.Saturn in 11th being Gemini or Virgo -money from temples. 
24. Saturn in |1thbeing cancer or Leo -money by cultivation of 
lands. 

Loss of Money : |. If the planets occupy or aspect the 12th 
house of the arudha lagna the native spends money extravagantly. 
2. Ifthe Sun Rahu and Venus or any two or Any one of them 
would occupy or aspect the 12th house of the arudha lagna the 
native loses money by the action taken by the govt against the 
native.If the Sun and Rahu are involved the native's money may 
be seized by the govt. If Venus isinvolved the native loses money 
willingly. The native is sure to lose money if the Moon also is 
involved by occupancy or aspect.3. Loss of money due to kindred 
or due to disputes or litigation may take place due to Mercury in 
the 12th from the arudha lagna. 4. Lossof money may be in 
business or performance of rites if Jupiter is in the 12th of arndha 
lagna. Jupiter may cause loss of money by taxes too.5.Loss of 
money through the brothers is possible if Mars and Saturn occupy 
the 12th of the arudha lagna. 


Arudha 37 

Dhana Yogas: 1 .The Moon. Jupiter and Venus or any two or 
any one of them in the 2nd house from the arudha lagna bestows 
dhana yoga. 2. An exalted planet too in the 2nd house from the 
arudha lagna gives dhana yoga. 3. If the arudha lagna and the 
darapada are in mutual kendras ortrikona places dhana yoga is 
possible. 

Nirdhana yogas: |. Two malefics in the 5th or 9th aspecting 
the Ascendant or the arudha lagna (applicable to the movable 
and fixed Asc. A.L) 2.Two malefics in the 2nd of the arudha 
lagna aspecting the Asc. 3. Two malefics in 2nd of the Ascendant. 
4. Occupancy of malefics in the arudha lagna aspected by the 
lord of 8th house. 5. Occupancy of the 8th house lord in the 
Ascendant unaspected by any planet. 6. Occupancy a debilitated 
planet in the arudha lagna unaspected by any planet. 7. Occupancy 
of malefics in the 2nd house and 8th houseof Ascendant,A.L,or 
AK. 


Whether the benefics or malefics or both the number of 
planets should be equal. This is called kemadruma yoga which 
gives poverty. Here if the moon is involved. Penury is as certain 
as hell. 

Financial rank from 11 th house of arudha lagna The following 
are the 8 factors showing different ranks of wealth in the increasing 
order: 

1. Two or more aspecting planets. 2. Exalted aspectinbg 
planet. 3. Ascendant lord as an aspecting planet 4.9th houselord 
as an aspecting planet. 5. Argala formed by the aspecting planet. 
6. Two or more argalas of the aspecting planet. 7. Benefics in the 
argala places. 8.Exalted planet in the argalaplace. 

Vahana yoga: 1. By the mutual aspect Moon and Venus. 2. 
Moon and Venus in 3and 11 each. The yoga may be looked into 
both the Rasi and Navamsa charts. 

Bandhana yoga: Equal number of planets in the 2nd and 
| 2thor in the Sth or 9th or in 3rd and 11 th or in 4th and 1 Oth or in 
the 6th and 1 2th reckoned from the Ascendant. A.L or the 


38 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
atmakaraka. cause imprisonment. If the planets are benefics the 
person may taken into custody for ashort period. If they are 
malefics he may be beaten with chains. 

Calamitous yogas: 1. A long term of imprisonment is 
probable if the 4th and 1 Oth are occupied by the malefics 2. If the 
3rd and 11 th are occupied by a debilitated benefic and the waning 
Moon a long term of imprisonment is probable If an exalted planet 
aspects the above he will be released soon.If a debilitated planet 
aspects:he will be beaten with chains. If a benefic aspects he is 
comfortable even in custody. 

Period of Imprisonment : 1. A debilitated malefic planet in 
the bandhana yoga is a pointer to imprisonment in years 2. A 
debilitated benefic indicates months of imprisonment. 

3. An exalted malefic indicates weeks of imprisonment 4. An 
exalted benefic indicates the person disallowed to speak for a 
time. 

Pointers for dushtamaranam(unnatuiraldeath) !.The 8th and 
or the 3rd from the yogada is occupied or aspected by Mars and 
Rahu. 2. The 8th and or the 3rd from the yogada is occupied or 
aspected bythe Sun and .Rahu. 3. The5th and 9th of the yogada 
are occupied by equal number of malefics. 

In the chart of Gandhiji (chart-4 ) the yogada isJupiter., the 
3rd house from the yogada is occupied by Rahu., the 8th fromthe 
Moon is aspected by the Sun; Libra is both the Ascendant and 
A.L and is hemmed between two malefics vizSun and Saturn. 

In the chart-15 of Jayendra Saraswti The A.K is Jupiter 
inLibra. The 3rd from the A.K is occupied by Rahu while the I] th 
is occupied by Venus. The 5th is occupied by two planets viz 
Saturn and Moon while the 9th is occupied by two viz Mercury 
and Ketu. 


Saukhya yoga: A person is happy; | If .the Ascendant is 
aspected by the 4th house lord 2. the A.L is aspected by its 4th 
house lord 3.Atmakarakd is aspected by the 4th house lord. 

Buddhi Yoga: If the Upapda : Reckon the signs from the 
ascendant,A.Land A.K.The native is intelligent I by the aspect of 
the planet placed in 3rd house, 2by the aspect of the lords of 3rd 
and 6th houses, 3.by the aspect of Sth house lord on the Ascendant, 
A.L, AK. 

Raja Yogas :- 

I .Rajayoga forms if the 2nd ,4th, 5th, 8th, 9th houses from 
the Atmakaraka are occupied by the benefics. 2. Rajayoga forms 
if the 2nd, 4th, 5th houses from the atmakaraka are occupied by 
equal number of benefics. 3.The malefics in the 3rd and 6th houses 
from the atmakaraka confer raja yoga. 4.Raja yoga forms by a 
benefic in the 2nd malefic in the 3rd benefics in the 4th and 5th 
malefic in the 6th benefic in the 7th malefic in the 8th benefic in 
the 9th counted from the lord of Ascendant and or from the lord 
of its 7th house. The count could be according to the graha chakra 
By the rule of manipravala yoga the maharaja yoga could be 
formed by a benefic in the 2nd. malefic in the 3rd, benefic in the 
4th malefic in the 5th. benefic in the 6th malefic inthe 7th benefic 
in the 8th malefic in the 9th counted from the lord of Ascendant 
or 7th house.Here the count could be according to the 
grahachakra..Neverthe less the principle of benefic inthe 2nd. 
malefic in the 3rd and a benefic in the 4th is a must for the 


40 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
formation of Raja yoga. In the above yogas if the benefics in the 
place of malefics and the malefics in the place of benefics are 
placed the native becomes poor. 

Amatya Yoga : 

Jupiter or Venus or Moon in the 5th house from the lord of 
Ascendant or from the lord ofits 7th house confers the amatya 
yoga. 

Senadhipa yoga: Ifthe 3rd or 6th houses from the lord of 
Ascendant or from the lord of its 7th house is occupied by the 
malefics the native becomes the chief of army. 

Adhi Yogas: Adhi yoga is of two ways.one by the Moon and 
the other by the Ascendant.The occupancy of the benefics in the 
6th.7th 8th houses reckoned from the Moon constitutes the 
Chandradhi yoga. Ifit is from the Ascendant it is called the 
Lagnadhi yoga. The adhi yogas are much less effective if the 
malefics conjoin the benefics (Mercury,Jupiter, Venus) The 
malefics are Rahu, Saturn,Mars, Sun in the descending order of 
maleficence. 

There could be seven sorts of Adhi yogas as given below. 

1. Three benefics(Mercury, Venus Jupiter) in 6th or 7th or 
8th of the Ascendant Here the malefic if exalted can also be taken. 
as the benefic. 2.Three benefics in any two houses of the 
Ascendant. 3.Two benefics in any one house of the Ascendant. 4. 
Three benefics in all the three houses reckoned from the 
Moon.5.Three benefics in any two houses from the Moon. 6. 
Two benefics in any two houses from the Ascendant or the Moon. 
7. One benefic in any one house from the Ascendant or the Moon. 

The Adhi yogas could be more effective and superior if three 
benefics are involved.. medium with two benefics and ordinary 
with one benefic. 


Arudha 41 

Results of Adhi Yogas: |. Minister 2. LPS 1.A.S. 3. Doctor 
4. Pontiff. 5. Engineer. 6. Banker. 7. Author. 8. Musician. 9. 
Astrologer. 10. Cine-artist. 11. Fabulously rich. 12. Healthy. 

The above-mentioned results from 1 to 5 could be fairly 
judged from Lagnadhi Yoga. while the remaining could be judged 
from the chandradhi yoga. 

Those born in Lagnadhi Yogas are domineering and dictatorial 
and those born in Chandradhi yoga are very popular. 

Chart-16. Sardar Vallabhai Patel.-10-10-1875; 
Asc=Aries; Virgo=Sun Ketu; Libra=Merc 

Jup, Ven ;Sagittarius =Mars. Capricorn=Sat; Aquarius=Moon; 
Pisces=Rahu. In the chart-15. three benefics, Mercury,Jupiter, 
Venus occupy the 7th house of the Ascendant Aries. It constitute 
the Lagnadhi yoga. He was the Dy Prime Minister of India and 
the most powerful Home Minister. 

Chart -17; Asc=Libra, Sagittarius=Ketu, Jup, Moon; 
Aries=Sun, Merc, Mars, Ven. 

Gemini=Rahu Cancer=Sat. In the chart-17 of Adolf Hitler 
Libra is the Asc and the 7th house is occupied by by the exalted 
Sun and Merc andVen. Since the Sun ts exalted the. 

Lagnadhi Yoga is said to be formed by the three benefics in 
the 7th house of the Asc. 

Chart-18: Bill Gates: 28-10-1953 Asc=Gemini; Leo=Jup. 
Virgo=Merc, Mars Libra=Sun Ven, Sat Scorpio=Rahu 
Pisces=Moon, Taurus=Ketu. In the chart-18 all the three benefics 
are involved in all the three houses reckoned from the Moon in 
the formation of the Chandradhi Yoga. Mercury though conjunct 
with Mars is exalted.and Saturn is exalted 

Bill Gates is the richest person in U.S.A well known for Micro 
Soft. 


42 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

Chart-19: Devanand;: 26-9-1923. Asc=Scorpio 
»Aquarius=Ketu, Pisces=Moon, Leo=Mars Rahu Virgo=Sun, 
Mere,Ven. Libra=Sat, Jup.In the chart-18 Mercury and Venus 
in the 7th and Jupiter in the 8th reckoned from the Moon produce 
the Chandradhi Yoga-cine artist. 


Pointers for Legal Profession and Judiciary : 


I .The 5th house of karakamsa should be occupied or aspected 
by Mars while Jupiter and Mercury are connected with any of 
the 5houses of the karakamsa. 

2. Karakamsa should be occupied by Mars Mercury and. 
Jupiter while one of the three is the atmakaraka. 

3. If Mars is.the atmakaraka, the karakamsa should be 
occupied by or aspected by. Jupiter while Mercury is strongly 
with any of the first five houses from karakamsa. 

4. If Mars is an atmakaraka the karakamsa should be occupied 
or aspected by Mercury while Jupiter is well connected with any 
of the first five houses. 

5.Karakamsa should be occupied by Mars while Jupiter and 
Mercury are well connected with any of the first five houses. 

6. If all the three or any two among Mars, Jupiter, Mercury 
are exalted or in own house or in friend's house in the navamsa 
chart and connected with any of the above rules the native occupies 
a high post in the judiciary. 

7. If the Sun is the atmakaraka and is wellplaced in the 
navamsa chart and any of the above principles (1, 5, 6) are present 
the native's elevation to a high judicial post is sure. 

8. If the Sun is exalted or in own house in the navamsa chart 
and connected with any of the above pointers elevation to the 
bench is certain. 

Pointers to Police :-I.Mars and Saturn or Mars and the 
Sun.connccted with the 2nd house of karakamsa by aspect or 
association. 2. Mars in the 4th house of the drekkana lagna. 
3. Aspect of Mars and Saturn to drekkana lagna. 4.Aspect of Mars 
on the drekkana sign of the lord of Ascendant and. or.to the 


Arudha 43 
drekkana sign of the 7th house lord of theAscendant(see drekkana 
chart). 5. Malefics in the 3rd house or in the6th house from the 
lord of Ascendant or from the 7th houselord of ascendant.6.If the 
Yogada is connected with his 6th house lord by mutual aspect or 
association the native becomes a police officer. / 

Daivajna yogas:- 1. The lord of the 2nd house of Ascendant 
is in exaltation own house or, friend's house with Mercury in 
kendra or kona or in 11th house.This is a powerful yoga for 
profound knowledge in astrology. 2. Mercury in the Ascendant 
or in the 7th house with Saturn in a kendra;. 3. Mercury with 
Saturn ina Kendra one of tye two being in exaltation. 4. Mercury 
and Saturn in kendras to each other. 5. The Sun and Mercury in 
the 2nd of Ascendant. 6. Mercury in the 2nd and Venus in the 
3rd. 7. Both Mercury and Venus in the 2nd or 3rd. 8. Venus exalted 
in the 2nd and the 2nd house lord inexaltation own house or 
friend's house. 9. Benefics in the 2nd. 3rd, and 5th from the 
Ascendant The benefics are Jupiter, Ketu, Venus, Mercury, 
Waxing Moon. 


Chapter -5 UPAPADA 


Male Horoscopes: Find out the stronger of the of the 
Ascendant and its 7th house. If the stronger is an odd sign, find 
out the arudha of its 12th house. If the stronger is an even sign 
find out the arudha of the 12th house of its sammukha sign. 

See the example chart-]; Asc=Scorpio, this is occupied by 
Satum, .the 7th house Taurus is stronger because of two planets 
in it. Taurus is an even sign; the sammukha sign of Taurus 
isLibra;so the arudha of the 12th of Libra becomes the upapada: 
the 12th of Libra is Virgo; so Mercury the lord of Virgo is in 
Taurus the 9th of Virgo; Hence the 9th of Taurus is Capricom 
which becomes the Upapada. 

Female Chart: Find out the stronger of the Asc.and its 7th 
house.|f the stronger of the two is an even sign find the arudha of 
the 2nd sign. If the stronger of the two is an odd sign find out the 
arudha of the 2nd of its sammukha sign. 

Female chart-1: Asc=Aquarius; Pisces=Rahu; Leo=Sat, 
Mars. Virgo=Merc, Ketu 

Libra=Sun; Scorpio=Ven. Moon; Capricorn=Jup, 

In the female chart -1, Asc is Agarius and its 7th house Leo is 
stronger. This is an odd sign Its sammukha sign is Capricom, the 
2nd from Capricorn is Aquarius; the arudha of Aquarius is Scorpio 
which becomes Upapada. 

Upapada Results : 1 .A malefict1 d-15d in Upapada or in its 
2nd house results in non - attachment to ones own possessions If 
the malefic is in 15d-30d early bereavement is probable. If the 
sign is an even sign reverse the above results.Here the Sun should 
not be deemed as malefic. The result is certain if the sign is Aries 
Scorpio. Capricom or Aquarius. 2. If the Upapada.or its 2nd house 
is occupied by a debilitated planet, the bereavement of spouse is 
probable or the spouse could be of low caste. 3. By an exalted 


Upapada 45 
planet the person becomes a polygamist or the spouse could be 
of high caste. 4. If the Upapada. or its 2nd house is occupied by 
its own lord.the spouse dies in the 2nd half ofthe native's life, 
that is.after 50 years of age. 5. If the Upapda or its 2nd house is 
aspected or occupied by a benefic, the spouse is beautiful. 6. If 
Rahu and Saturn occupy or aspect the Upapada or its 2nd house, 
divorce is probable. 7. If Venus and Ketu are connected to the 
Upapada by aspect or occupancy the spouse suffers from urinary 
disease. 8. If Mercury and Ketu are connected. the spouse suffers 
from a disease, called, asthisrava. 9. By the Sun Saturn and 
Rahu,the spouse suffers from bone-fever. 10. By Mercury and 
Ketu the spouse will have stout physique. 11. If Gemini or Virgo 
is the Upapada and its 2nd house is occupied or aspected by 
Mercury and Saturn.the spouse suffers from nose disease. 12. 
By Jupiter and Saturn the spouse suffers from nervous debility. 


13. By Jupiter and Rahu the spouse suffers from dental disease. 
14.Gemini or Virgo is the Upapada or its 2nd house, occupied or 
aspected by Saturn and Rahu the spouse is lame. 

The following yogas also may be examined. 

{.The aspect or occupancy of Mercury, Saturn and Venus 
makes one childless. 2. TheSun Jupiter and Rahu in the 5th house 
of Upapada by aspect or occupancy gives sons. 3. The Moon 
gives only one son. 4. Ifthe 5th house is connected with both 
apathya and anapathya planets progeny is possible but delayed. 
5. By Mars and Saturn the person adopt a son. 6. If the houses of 
Upapada etc are odd signs the native will have children. 8. If they 
are even signs the native may have a son or two. 8. Judge the 
above results from the Sth of Upapada,by the 5th houselord of 
Upapada and by the panchamamsa planets. 

1. Saturn and Rahu in the 3rd or 1 1th of Upapada. cause the 
death of brothers; the 1 Ith indicates the elder brothers and 3rd 
indicates younger brothers. 2. Venus in the 1] th causes abortion 
to the native's mother of the one before his immediate elder 
brother. Venus in 3rd causes abortion to the mother of the one 


46 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
after the immediate younger brother. 3. The above yoga holds 
good if Venus aspects the 8th house of the Ascendant. 4. By Mars 
Jupiter Moon and Mercury in the 3rd and [1 th or the lord of the 
Upapada,plurality brothers is indicated. 5. The aspect of Saturn 
and Mars on the 3rd of Upapada. or its lord causes the death of 
the eldest brother. 6. 1f Saturn aspects the 3rd or the 11 th only the 
native remains rest being dead. 7. Ketu in the 1] th indicates many 
elder sisters and in the 3rd many younger sisters. 8. if the 2nd 
house from the lord of the 7th house of the Upapada is occupied 
by Rahu the native will have large teeth or suffers from dental 
diseases. 9. If Ketu occupies, the native stammers. 10. If Saturn 
occupies the native looks ugly. 


The following two pointers also may be noted. 

1.The yogada conjoined with the 5th house lord indicates two 
or three children. If the Sun or Jupiter is involved the birth of 
sons is certain. 

2.Conform if necessary from the Sth and 9th of saptamamsa 
lagna and its 7th in the saptamamsa chart. If in the above places 
the Sun Rahu or Jupiter has placement plurality of children is 
assured. 

Childlessness: If no apathya planet is placed in the 5th or 
9th from the Upapada and its 7th the native is childless. 2.1f 
anapathya planets are placed in the said places the native is 
childless.3. If both the apathya and anapathya planets are 
connected progeny is delayed. The period of delay is as follows. 
Jupiter= 1 year Mars=Syears 

Mercury-=3years Venus=Syears Satum= 7years Moon=the 
number of its signs is the number of years. Rahu=5years 
Ketu=3years. N.B-Sun, Jupiter, Rahu are the apathya planets 
whereas Saturn Mercury, Venus arethe anapathya planets. 4. If 
the variable putrakaraka is exalted I year before the period of 
delay is probable. If debilitated one year after the period of delay 


Ul papada 4] 
is probable for the birth of a child. 5. If the lords of the 5th and 
the 9th houses from the Upapada and its 7th house are in 
thepanchamamsa of Saturn. Venus, and Mercury childlessness is 
probable. 

Miscarriage: 1. Mars in the Upapada indicates the child by 
garbhakshobha (operation) 2. Mars in the Upapada aspected by 
Saturn indicates garbhapatha (abortion) after the 4th month of 
pregnancy. 3. If Mars in the 8th of Upapada is aspected by the 
waning Moon,the woman suffers from miscarriage.The same is 
true ifthe 8th of Upapada receives the aspect of both the Moon 
and Mars. 4. Rahu in the 8th of Upapada indicates the birth of 
adead child,but not if Rahu is conjunct or aspected by a benefic. 


Adopted Children: 


1.1f Mars and Saturn are connected with the 5th or 9th from 
tye Upapada or its. 7th the native adopts a child..The same is true 
in the case of Mars and Mercury. 

2. If the lord of the5th or 9th from the Upapada or its 7th 
house is in Gemini orVirgo and is conjoined or aspected by the 
Moon the native adopts a child. 3. Ifthe lord of the 5th or 9th 
from the Upapada or its 7th is conjunct with Mercury and is 
aspected by the Moon the native adopts a child. 4. If the lord of 
the 5th house of the Yogada is conjunct with Mercury or is in 
Gemini or Virgo and is aspected by the waning Moon the native 
adopts achild. Ifthe planets in the 5th or 9th from the Upapada or 
its 7th are in the panchamamsa of Mars and Saturn or Mars and 
Mercury the native adopts a child. 


Chapter -6. FEMALE HOROSCOPY 


Female Horoscopy: In the female nativity, if the Ascendant 
is an even sign, reckon the houses in clockwise direction and if 
the Ascendant is an odd sign reckon the houses in the anti clock 
wise direction.But from the drekkana lagna reckon the houses 
whether odd or even in the anti clock-wise direction. Judge the 
following significations in the female chart of the 12 houses of 
both the Asc and DL. 


1. Ascendant=physique 

2. 2nd house= facial features 

3. 3rd house= breasts and buttocks 

4. 4th house=ornaments 

5. Sth house= character and conduct 

6. 6th house=other woman whom her husband marries. 

7. 7th house=hair, nature of the husband kind or cruel, loving 
or not. 

8. 8th house =female organ 

9. 9th house=duties, prosperity of husband 

10. 10th house=piety, character faithfulness to husband 
1]. 11th house=gains and Juxuries 
12. 12thhouse=ears and feet. 

The above significations can be judged by the benefic or 
malefic planetary associations in the houses. The following are 
the specific results by the planetary combinations. 

1. If the Moon and Jupiter occupy the Asendant or DL the 
woman is well-behaved. 

2. If the Sun and Mars occupy it she is of irritable temperament 
and curt behaviour. 

3.1f the Moon and Venus occupy it. she is beautiful but proud. 

4. If the Moon and Mercury occupy it, the woman is good at 
fine arts. 


Female Horoscopy 49 

5. If Saturn and Ketu occupy it she looks ugly. 

6. If Saturn and Rahu occupy it, the woman is not chaste and 
brings stigma to the family. 

7. If Mercury and Venus in it are aspected by the waning 
Moon she has corpulent body and bad-omened vortices of hair. 

8.1f If Mercury and Venus in it are aspected by the Moon she 
is stout. 

9. If Saturn occupies it and is aspected by Mars the woman 
has dark hair curved head with scars and tumours. 

10. By Jupiter in it, the woman has reddish-brown hair. 

1]. By Rahu in it, her head is big in size. 

12. By Mars in it, she is troubled with lice on her head. 

13. By Saturn and Rahu aspected by the Sun.she has bald 
head or unbending and stiff hair head. 

14. By Venus in it aspected by the Moon she has attractive 
bed. 

15. If the Asc or its lord is aspected by a debilitated. malefic 
or by the combust planet the woman's body has bad odour. 

16. If the Moon unaspected by benefics is debilitated and is 
aspected by malefics the woman's body has bad odour. 

17. If the Asc. lord is debilitated aspected by malefics and 
debilitated planet, the woman has bad odour.Rahu gives the smell 
of fish, Venus gives the flavour of flowers: Mars gives the smell 
of fish; Jupiter gives the flavour of sandalwood. 

18. If mercury is associated or aspected there will not be any 
characterstic smell. 

2nd.House 

I. If the Moon and Jupiter occupy the 2nd house she is a 
govt. official. 

2. If the Moon and Venus occupy the 2nd house she has pale 
and broad eyes. 

3. If Mars and Saturn occupy the 2nd house she has light 
blue eyes. 


50 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

4. If Saturn and Rahu occupy the 2nd house she has squint 
eye. 

5. If the Sun in the 2nd house is not aspected by benefics she 
loses her eyesight. 

5th House—: 

The 5th and 9th houses represent children. The number of 
planets in the Sth and 9th houses represent the number of children. 
2. The number of benefics posited between the aspecting planet 
and the Sth and 9th houses represent the numberof children 
surviving. 3. The number of malefic planets or debilitated planets 
in the signs said above represent the number of children who do 
not survive. 

8th House——_. 

1. If Rahu occupies the 8th house .the male child if born does 
not survive. 

2.If Rahu in the 8th house is aspected or associated with 
benefics children survive. 

3. If the Moon in the 8th house is aspected by Mars, abortion 
takes place. 

4. Ifthe Moon and Mars occupy the 8th house the woman 
suffers from difficult delivery. 

5. If the Moon and Saturn occupy 8th house miscarriage takes 
place. 

6. Malefic planets in the 8th show the death of her husband. 

7. If Rahu in association with the malefics occupies the 8th 
house she becomes a widow before her delivery takes place. 

8. If Rahu in the 8th house is aspected by malefics she 
becomes a virgin widow. 

9. If Mars alone occupies the 8th house she becomes a widow 
after her delivery. 

10. If Saturn occupies the 8th house she becomes a widow 
after three deliveries. 

Il. Venus in the 8th house causes widowhood after 60 years 
of herage. 


Female Horoscopy 5] 

12. Jupiter if associated w ith malefics in the8th house causes 
widowhood in the last part of her age. 

11th House.— 

1.1f the Moon and Venus occupy I] thhouse or the 3rd house 
she has conch-neck. 

2. If it is the Moon and Jupiter shehas attractive wrinkle-lines 
around her neck. 

3. If it is Rahu she has scars around her neck. 

4. If Ketu occupies 3rd or] Ith she has tonsils. 

5. If Saturn and Rahu in the 1] thor 3rd are aspected by Mars 
ora debilitated. planet she suffers from mumps and diphtheria. 

12.thhouse. :- 

1. Ifthe 12th house, being a watery sign is occupied by the 
watery planets, the woman is pious and makes pilgrimages. 

2. If the Moonis there she makes a sea voyage. 

3. IfRahu is there she wanders in hill regions. 

4. If Saturn is there she wanders in forest regions. 

5. If the Moon and Jupiter occupy the 12th house she shines 
and prospers. 

6. If Saturn and Rahu occupy the 12th house she has hard 
and rugged feet. 

7. If the Sun and Rahu occupy the 12th house she has broad 
and hard feet. 

8. If the strong Moon occupies the 12th she has lotus-insignia 
under her feet. 

9. If the Moon occupies 12th house she has good bed. 

10. If Jupiter and Venus or Jupiter and Mercury occupy !2th 
house she has soft and attractive bed. 

1].1f Mars and Saturn occupy 12th house she suffers from 
chronic disease. 

12. 1f Mars and Saturn in the 12th house are aspected by 
benefics she gets humidity during sexual intercourse. 

13.1f the Moon and Rahu occupy 12th house she suffers from 
urinary diseases. 

14. If Venus and Mars occupy any of the 3rd. 6th. 8th, or 
12th houses she has moustache and beard. 


Chapter -7 LONGEVITY 


Symbolic Terms:- Udaya chakra. Prakriti chakra, Vikriti 
chakra, Graha chakra and Padakrama. These are the five symbolic 
terms for reckoning of bhavas. sign-dasas dasa-years etc. 

Udaya chakra;-the count or reckoning of bhavas, or sign- 
dasasetc directly whether from an odd sign or from an even sign 
is called the udaya chakra. Aries, Gemini, Leo Libra 
Sagittariusand Aquarius are the odd signs. Taurus. Cancer, Virgo, 
Scorpio Capricom and Pisces are the even signs. 

Prakriti Chakra:- the count or reckoning of 
bhavas,dasasigns etc is direct from an odd sign while from an 
even sign it is reverse. 

Vikriti Chakra :- The count or reckoning of bhavas,dasa- 
signs etc is direct from an even sign and reverse from an odd 
sign. 

Graha Chakra:-The reckoning of bhavas or karakas from 
the sign-lord according to the udaya chakra in the order of 
planetary placement is called the graha chakra. for example, the 
lord of Ascendant is Mars.So Mars corresponds to tanu bhava.The 
planet next to him in Rasi chart corresponds to dhana bhava; the 
planet next to him corresponds to bhratru bhava; the planet next 
to him corresponds to matru bhava; the planet next corresponds 
to putra bhava, the planet next corresponds to jnati bhava ; the 
planet next corresponds to dara bhava; the planet next corresponds 
to ayur bhava; the planet next corresponds to bhagya bhava.Thus 
the nine planets in the direct order correspond to nine 
bhavas.Again the tanu bhava becomes rajya bhava; dhana bhava 
becomes ekadasa bhava and Jnati bhava becomes vyaya bhava. 


Longevity 53 

In the example rasi chart (section-l)the Ascendant is 
Scorpio. The lord of the Asc is Mars. 

Mars-tanu bhava or karaka : Saturn-dhana; Ketu- bhratru: 
Moon-matru; Jupiter-putra; Sun-jnati; Mercury-dara; Rahu-ay u; 
Venus- bhagya; Mars-rajya; Saturn-labha: Sun-vyaya Pada 
Krama:-This is of two kinds. ]. Prakriti chakra Padakrama 2. 
Vikritichakrapadakrama. 

The padakrama means the count of bhavas or dasa signs 
according to the movable fixed and dual signs. Prakriti chakra 
pada krama for movable signs-the count or reckoning is direct 
and regular for odd and movable signs and reverse for the even 
movable signs-for example we begin from Aries which is an odd 
sign. Then Aries Taurus Gemini Cancer Leo Virgo Libra Scorpio 
Sagittarius Capricorn Aquarius. and Pisces are the twelve dasa 
signs. Suppose we count from Cancer. Then Cancer Gemini 
Taurus Aries Pisces Aquarius Capricorn Sagi- ttarius Scorpio 
Libra Virgo Leo are the twelve dasa signs reversely. Similarly 
the count could be direct from Libra and reverse from Capricom. 

Prakriti chakra pada Krama for fixed signs- The count or 
reckoning is direct but 6th to 6th for odd and fixed signs, but 
reversely 6th to 6th for even fixed signs. For example-Leo is a 
fixed and odd sign. So Leo Capricom Gemini Scorpio Aries Virgo 
Aquarius Cancer Sagittarius Taurus Libra Pisces are the twelve 
dasa signs in the direct order of 6th to 6th. Suppose we count 
from Taurus which is a fixed and even sign Then Taurus 
Sagittarius Cancer Aquarius Virgo Aries Scorpio Gemini 
Capricorn. Leo Pisces Libra are the twelve dasa signs. in the 
reverse order of 6th to 6th. Similar is the case with Scorpio(even 
and fixed sign) and Aquarius (odd and fixed sign) 

Prakriti chakra padakrama for dual signs- The count or 
reckoning is direct in the order of 1.5,9 from the odd and dual 
signs but reverse in the order of 1, 5, 9 from the even and dual 
signs. For example -Gemini is an odd and dual sign; then Gemini, 
Libra. Aquarius, Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces, Leo, Sagittarius, Aries. 
Virgo, Capricorn. Taurus in the order of 1, 5, 9. 


54 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Suppose Virgo is the commencing dasa sign-then Virgo, 
Taurus, Capricorn. Leo. Aries Sagittarius. Cancer. Pisces, Scorpio 
Gemini, Aquarius. Libra are the twelve dasa signs in the reverse 
order of 1,5, 9. Similar is the case of Sagittarius and Pisces. 

LONGEVITY—-: Longevity is of three terms of life; they 
are long life middle life shortlife. 

Judge the term of life in the horoscope by the following three 
factors. 

1. Ascendant lord and 8th house lord. 2. Ascendant and the 
Moon. 3. Ascendant and Hora Lagna. Find out the sign- positions 
of both in each factor mentioned. to ascertain the term of life. 

Movable &Movable -long life; Fixed &Dual -long life 

Movable & Fixed -middle life; Dual & Dual -middle life 

Fixed & Fixed - short life : Movable & Dual -short life 

Ascertain the term of life indicated by all the three factors or 
any two of the three. If all three factors disagree ascertain the 
term of life indicated by the Ascendant and Hora Lagna. If the 
Moon occupies the Ascendant or its 7th house decide the term of 
hife indicated by the Ascendant and the Moon. 

To ascertain the term of life by Ascendant lord and 8th house 
lord make use of the specific reckoning of 8th house. The table is 
given below as a ready reckoner for it. 


Table of 8th houses 


Ascendant 8th House 
Aries Scorpio 
Taurus Gemini 
Gemini Capricorn 
Cancer Sagittarius 
Leo Cancer 
Virgo Aquarius 


Libra Taurus 


Longevity 55 


Scorpio Sagittarius 
Sagittarius Cancer 
Capricom Gemini 
Aquarius Capricom 
Pisces Leo 


In the example Rasi chart (section-1) the Ascendant is Scorpio. 
So the lord of the Asendant is Mars and the lord of the 8th house 
is Jupiter. The Ascendant lord Mars is in the dual sign Gemini 
and the lord of 8th houseJupiter is in Pisces the dual sign. Hence 
middle life is denoted. 2 Ascendant is Scorpio a fixed sign. The 
Moon is in Capricom a cardinal sign. Hence middle life is denoted. 
3. Ascendant is Scorpio a fixed sign and Hora lagna is Gemini a 
dual sign Hence long life is denoted Among three factors two 
factors reveal middle life. Now judge whether there is Kakshya 
Vriddhi (increase of term of life) or Kakshya Hrasa (decrease of 
term of life) and finally whether there is long life, middle life, or 
short life. 


Kakshya Vriddhi : 

1. Jupiter in the Ascendant, 7th house or Sth. 

2. Natural benefics Jupiter, Venus, Mercury) in the Ascendant 
or 7th house or in trikonas. 

3. Natural benefics with the atmakaraka. 

4. Exalted atmakaraka. 

5. Jupiter as the atmakaraka. 

Kakshya Hrasa: 

1. Occupancy of malefics in the Ascedant or its 7th house. 

2. Malefics in 5th and 9th of the Ascendant. 

3, Atmakaraka is debilitated. 

4. Satum associated with Ascendant lord or Horalagna lord. 

5. Occupancy of Saturn in the 8th house of Ascendant or 
Horalagna. 


56 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

Examine the above cules for Kakshya Vriddhi and Kakshya 
Hrasa and decide the term of life. In the example Rasi chart Jupiter 
occupies the 5th house of the Ascendant. Hence by the rule of 
Kakshya Vriddhi the middle life is increased to long life. 

The term of short life is 33 years and the term of long life 
is above 66 years and the term of middle life is from 33 to 66 
years. 


Calculation of Life-Span: 


Add and subtract the kakshya years of the planets in the 
kakshya places to 33 years if middle life is ascertained, or to 66 
years if long life is ascertained. 

Kakshya Years of planets: Sun=3; Moon= I Waxing Moon = 
6; Jupiter=6; Exalted Jupiter=12 Mercury=3; Venus=6; Saturn=5 
or 6 or 7 Mars=2 or 3 Add the years of benefics and subtract the 
years of malefics in the kakshya places. Add if the malefics are 
exalted Subtract if debilitated or in inimical sign. 

In the chart-6 of Swamy Vivekananda (1863-1902) the 
Ascendant is Sagittarius 25d.30m The atmakaraka is the Sun. 
Hora Lagna is Virgo. 

|}. Lord of Ascendant is Jupiter is in Libra(movable) 

Lord of 8th house is Moon in Virgo(dual) 

So short life is indicated. 

2. Ascendant is Sagittarius(dual) Moon is in Kanya(dual). 
Hence middle life is idicated. 

3. Ascendant is Sagittarius(dual) Hora Lagna is Virgo. Hence 
middle life is indicated. 

Two of three factors reveal middle life and hence it is 
confirmed. because of neither Kakshya Vriddhi nor Kakshya 
Hrasa. The middle life ranges from 33 years 66 years. So 3343 
(Mars in own house the 5th of Ascendant)+6(Jupiter in the 5th 
house of the 7th of the Ascendant) -3 (Sun the malefic atmakaraka) 
=39 years. Swamy Vivekananda died at the age of 39 years. 


Longevity 57 

Chart-5 of Pandit Nehru (1889-1964); In the chart of Pandit 
Nehru (1889-1964) Ascdt is Cancer 24d. 25m and the atmakaraka 
is Mercury and Hora Lagna is Scorpio. The Ascdt is occupied by 
the Moon. So longevity is to be ascertained by the Ascdt and the 
Moon. Ascdt is a movable sign and the Moon is in the movable 


sign. So long life is ascertained. So 66+6 (Moon in Ascdt) 
+3(MercuryA .K)+6(Venus)+6(Jupiter)-3(Sun in 5th)-2(Mars) - 
7(Saturn)=75 years. 


In the chart. A of the astrologer (the scribes' father, 1877- 
1927) given above the Ascdt is Taurus 24d.26m and the 
atmakaraka is the Moon.HoraLagna is Cancer. | The lord of the 
Ascdt is Venus in Gemini(dual), 8th houselord is Mercury(see 
the table of 8th houses) in the Ascdt (fixed )so long life is indicated. 
2. Ascdt is Taurus (fixed) Moon in Sagittarius (dual)=long life. 
3. Ascdt is Taurus(fixed) and Hora Lagna is Cancer (movable) 
So middle is indicated. Hence by two factors long life is indicated. 
But Saturn is placed in the Kendra, associated with the malefics 
vizMars and Rahu.Hence the kakshyahrasa and as a result long 
life is reduced to the middle life. 3346(fullMoon 
A.k)+6(Jupiter)+3(Mercury in Ascdt)+6(Venus in the 7th from 
A.K)-3 (Sun the malefic in the 7th of A.kK)=51 years. The native 
died at the age of 50 years. 

Calculation of life-span-Vriddha karika method: — 


58 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

The following three should be calculated. 1 Longitudes of 
Ascdt lord and 8th houselord 2. 

Longitudes of Ascdt and Hora Lagna (savayava) 3. 
Longitudes of the Moon and the Ascdt. 

Formulae: 

1. Short life= 12+ (30-D).1.1 

2. Middle life=33+(30-D).1.1 

3. Long life =66+(30-D). 1.1 

D=degrees of Ascdt lord, 8th houselord. Hora Lagna, Ascdt, 
Moon. 

In the chart of Swami Viveka Nanda( 1863-1902) out of three 
factors middle life is conformed by two factors viz Ascdt and 
Hora Lagna, Ascdt and Moon 

Ascdt.Sagittarius=25d.50m HoraLagna=Sagittarius 26d 
Moon=5s.18d (for calculation of savayava horalagna see 
section-2) 

Middle life= 33+(30-26) 1.1=37.4; 33+(30-18).1.1=45.2 
Average=41.3 years. 

Middle life=33+(30-26).1.1=37.4.; 33+(30-26). 1.1 =37.4 
Average=37 Ayears. 

Therefore lifespan=4 1.3+37.4=78.7dived by2=39 3years. 

In the case of Pandit Nehru Ascdt is Cancer 24d. Moon = 17d. 
Birth ghatis=14-10 Diurnal duration =32ghatis. 
HoraLagna=Aquarius.The Moon is in the Ascdt.So the Longevity 
should be ascertained by the Ascdt and the Moon. 

Long life=66+(30-24). 1.1=72.6 

Long life=66+(30-17).1.1=80.3 

Average=76.45 So the life-span comes to76 years. Nehruji 
died at the age of 75years. 

Longevity-Subsdiary methods: 

Method-1!: Ifthe lord of the 8th house of the Ascdt is in a 
Kendra -longlife 


Longevity 59 
If in panapara -middle life. If in apoklima -short life. 
Ascertain similarly by the 8th house lord from the 7th house 

of the Ascendant. 

Method-2- If the 8th house lord of the atmakaraka is in 
Kendra-long life. 

If in panapara-middle life. 
Tf in apoklima-short life. 

Ascertain.similarly from the 8th house lord from the 7th house 
of the atmakaraka. 

Method-3: 1. Ascdt lord and 8th house lord 

2. 8th house and 8th houselord. 

3. Moon-sign and 8th houselord from the Moon-Sign. 

Examine the three factors by movable fixed dual signs and 
ascertain the Longevity from any two. If the three factors differ 
declare middle life. 

Method-4: This method is applicable only if the Ascdt lord is 
the atmakaraka. Treat the sign occupied by Ascdt lord as Ascdt. 
Treat the sign occupied by the 8th houselord as Hora Lagna. If 
the Ascdt is stronger than Hora Lagna count the number of signs 
from Ascdt to Hora Lagna and divide this numberby 4. If the 
remainder is 4 long life is indicated. If it is 3 middlelife is indicated. 
If it is 2 short life is indicated. If it is ] very short life is indicated. 
If Hora Lagna is strongerthan the Ascdt count the number of 
signs from Hora Lagna to the Ascdt. Divide this number by 4and 
ascertain longevityby the remainder as mentioned above. 


Chapter -8 AYUR DASAS 


Niryana Soola Dasa- This dasa begins from the Ascdt or its 
7th house whichever is stronger. If the Ascdt is stronger than its 
7th house begin the Dasa from the Ascdt and the succession of 
Dasas is direct if the Ascdt is an odd sign or reverse if it is an 
evensign. If the 7th house is stronger than the Ascdt begin it from 
the 7th house. And each dasa sign carries 9 years and each antar 
dasa sign gets 9months.So to begin the Niryana Soola Dasa first 
ascertain whether the Ascdt is stronger or its 7th house as follows. 

1. The one which is occupied by a planet is stronger than the 
one which is vacant. 

2. The one which is occupied by more number of planets is 
stronger than the onev which is occupied by less. 

3. If both are occupied by equal number of planets judge 
strength by own, exaltation etc. 

4. If both are unoccupied by planets judge the strength of 
Ascdt lord and the 7th house lord. 

5. If still the strength is the same the lord attaining degrees 
should be considered. 

6. Ifthe degrees of both are same judge by the prativesika 
strength. It means thus-An odd sign is stronger if its lord is in the 
even sign than the odd sign whose lord is in the odd sign.An even 
sign is stronger if its lord is in an odd sign than the even sign 
whose lord is in an even sign. 

Death- inflicting Dasa Signs: 1.5th and 9th dasa signs of 
Ascdt or its 7th house.whichever begins. 25th and 9th dasa signs 
of Rudra planets. 3. Dasa sign occupied by Prani Rudra if he is a 
malefic. 4. Dasa sign occupied by Aprani Rudra. 5. Dasa sign 
occupied or aspected by Mars and the Moon 6. Dasa sign aspected 
by Saturn and Rahu. 7. Dasa sign aspected or occupied by the 


Ayur Dasas 61 
Moon placed in Aries or Scorpio.8.Dasa sign occupied or aspected 
by the Moon associated with malefics. 

Rudra planets-. Find out the 8th houselord of the Ascdt and 
the 8th houselord of 7th of Ascdt.The sronger of thetwo is called 
the Pranit Rudra. The weaker if associated with or aspected by 
any malefic becomes the Aprani Rudra. 

Maheswara planet:- The 8th house lord of atmakaraka is 
called the Maheswara. Judge the strength of the 8th houselord 
and the 12th house lord of atmakaraka. The stronger of the two 
becomes a fatal planet. It means the sign occupied by the stronger 
planet becomes the death-inflicting dasa-sign. If atmakaraka is 
associated with Rahu or Ketu or if Rahu or Ketu occupies the 8th 
houseof atmakaraka judge the strength of 6th house lord and the 
12thhouse lord of the atmakaraka, the stronger of the two becomes 
a fatal planet which means the sign occupied by him becomes 
death-inflicting. 

Parental fatality- ( Pitru Niryana Soola Dasa)- Ascertain 
whether the Ascdt or its 7th house is stronger. Reckon the 9th 
house directly from the Ascdt or its 7th house whichever is 
stronger if the Ascdt or its 7th house is an odd sign. But if Ascdt 
or its 7th house is an even sign reckon the 9th house reversely 
from the Ascdt or 7th house whichever is stronger. Pitru Niryana 
Sooladasa begins from the 9th house and the dasa signs run 
directly whether the 9th house is odd or even. Each dasa sign 
carries 9 years. 

]. Father's death is probable in the dasa-sign. aspected or 
occupied by the 8th house lord of the 9th house or in the Soola 
(5th. 9th) dasasign occupied or aspected by the 8th house lord of 
the 9th house. 2 If the 9th house is connected with Saturn. Mars. 
Rahu or Ketu by aspect or association death of the father is 
probable before 12 years age of the native. But this may be averted 
by the aspect of the Sun or any benefic planet. 


62 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

Matru Niryana Soola Dasa:— Reckon the 4th house directly 
from the Ascdt or its 7th house whichever is stronger if it is an 
odd sign. But if theAscdt or its 7th house is an even sign reckon 
the 4th house reversely from it. Matru Niryana Soola Dasa begins 
from the 4th house and the dasa signs run directly whether the 
4th house is odd or even Each dasasign carries 9 years. I. 
Mother'death is probable in the dasa-sign occupied or aspected 
by the 8th house lord of the 4th house of Ascdt or in the 5th or 9th 
dasa-sign occupied or aspected bythe 8th houselord of of the 4th 
house. 2. If the 4th house is connected with Saturn. Mars, Rahu 
or Ketu. by aspect or association death of mother is probable 
before 12 years of the native's age. This may be averted by the 
Sun ora benefic. 

BRAHMA-Step-1: Judge the strength of the Ascdt and its 
7th house by the principles mentionrd above.under Niryana Soola 
Dasa.. Step-2 ; Find out the lords of 6th, 8th, and 12th houses of 
the Ascdt or its 7th house whichrver is stronger. Step-3. The 
stronger of the three lords if placed in Ascdt or 3rd or Sth becomes 
Brahma. If the 7th house is stronger than Ascdt, the strongest of 
the three lords viz 6th. 8th, 12th reckoned from the 7th house 
becomes Brahma if placed in the 7th, 9th, or 1] thof Ascdt. But 
according to Neelakantta Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra Sagittarius 
Aquarius are mentioned. for the eligibility of Brahma. 

STHIRA DASA: This is another impotant Ayur Dasa. This 
begins from the sign occupied by Brahma andthedasasigns run 
directly whether the sign occupied by Brahma is odd or even. 
The movable fixed and dual signs carry 7. 8.9 years respectively. 

Probable period of death in Sthira dasa : Pointers- Decide the 
term of life whether long middle or short. If the term of life is in 
the horoscopic chart is short judge the first four dasa-signs from 
the sign occupied by Brahma. If the term of life is middle judge 
the 5th. 6th 7th 8th dasa-signs. If the term of life is longjudge the 
9th, | Oth 1]1th 12th dasa signs. Makec use of the following 
principles to time the probable death-inflicting dasa sign and 
antardasasign in the term of life ascertained. 


Ayur Dasas 63 

I. Dasa sign occupied or aspected by a malefic 2. Dasa sign 
whose 5th and 9th signs are occupied by malefics. 3. Paka and 
Bhoga signs occupied by malefics. 4. Dasasign and its lord 
connected with one or two malefics by aspect or by occupancy. 
5. Dasa sign aspected by the waning Moon. 6. Dasasign and its 
lord aspected by the waning Moon or by Venus. 7. Dasa sign 
hemmed in between Rahu/ Ketu and Mars and Saturn. 8. Dasa 
sign whose 8th sign is occupied by the Moon. 9. Dasa sign 
aspected by Rahu or Ketu and Saturn and occupied or aspected 
by Mars. 10. Brahma if associated with Saturn Rahu/ketu the 
6th, 8th and 12 the houses of Brahma will be the death -inflicting 
planet. 

Illustrated chart for Niryana Soola Dasa.-Born on 10-11-1936 
died on 21-5-1975. 

Ascdt = Capricorn, Aquarius = Saturn, Gemini =Ketu, 
Virgo=Moon, Mars. Libra=Sun, Mercury Scorpio=Venus. 
Sagittarius= Jupiter Rahu, 

From 10-11-1936 to 10-1 1-1979(ie Capricorn to Virgo each 
carrying 9years). Death happened in Virgo-Sagittarius on 21-5- 
1975. Virgo is occupied by the Moon and Mars (rule-5) and 
Sagittarius is occupied by Jupiter and Rahu and aspected by the 
Moon and Mars. The 8th house lord of Ascdt is Mercury and the 
8th houselord of the 7th house of Ascdtis Jupiter. So Jupiter 
becomes the Prani Rudra while the Aprani Rudra is Mercury. 

Pitru NiryanaSoola Dasa- See the example chart in Section- 
1]. Ascdt is Scoroio occupied by Saturn while the 7th house is 
occupied by two planets viz Sun, Mercury. The 7th house is 
stronger than the Ascdt. The 7th house Taurus is an even sign 
and therefore the 9th house of the 7th reversely is Virgo. So Pitru 
Niryana Soola Dasa begins from Virgo. carrying 9 years. Virgo 


64 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
is aspected by Mars (8thlord of Virgo) Rahu and Ketu. The 
native's father died in Virgo-Virgo ie in October 1927. 

Matru Niryana Soola Dasa:— In the above chart from the 
7th house of the Ascdt the 4th house reversely is Aquarius. So 
Matru Niryanasola Dasa begins from Aquarius each dasasign 
carrying 9 years. The native's mother died in November 1981] ie 
Leo-Leo. Leo is aspected by The Moon aspecte by three malefics 
viz Saturn, Sun, Mercury. 

Illustration for Sthira Dasa : In the chart of Pandit Nehru 
(Chart-5) Ascdt is Cancer. The 6th, 8th, 12th lords are Jupiter, 
Saturn, Mercury respectively. Jupiter is the strongest of the three 
and is placed in Sagittarius an odd sign. So Jupiter becomes 
Brahma. hence Sthira Dasa begins from Sagittarius occupied by 
Brahma. 

So the dasa-signs are 

Sagittarius=9 , Capricorn=7, Aquarius=8 , Pisces=9, Aries=7 

Taurus=8, Gemini=9, Cancer=7, Leo=7, Virgo=9. Nehruji 
died in Virgo-Sagittarius ie on 27-5-1964 (see the principles in 
Sthira Dasa). 


Chapter -9 PHALITHA DASAS 


Phalitha Dasas:-1. CHARA DASA- This dasa begins from 
the Ascdt The dasa-signs run from the Ascdt directly if its 9th 
house is in the ojapada group. The dasa-signs run reversely from 
the Asdt if the 9th house of the Ascdt is in the sama pada group. 
Aries, Taurus. Gemini, Libra, Scorpio Sagittarius are the signs 
in the ojapada group. Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Capricorn Aquarius 
Pisces are in the sama pada group. For example-The Ascdt is 
Aries. Its 9th house is Sagittarius which is in the ojapada group. 

Hence the dasa-signs are Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo 
etc directly. 

The following are the twelve dasa-signs for the twelve Ascdts 
in Chara Dasa-method-1 

1. Aries:- Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, 
Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn Aquarius, Pisces. 

2. Taurus:- Taurus, Aries, Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn, 
Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, Virgo,LeoCancer, Gemini. 

3. Gemini:- Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces, Aquarius, 
Capricom, Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, Leo, Cancer. 

4. Cancer:- Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces. Aquarius, 
Capricom, Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, Leo. 

5. Leo:- Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius Capricorn, 
Aquarius, Pisces. Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer. 

6. Virgo:- Virgo. Libra, Scorpio. Sagittarius, Capricorn, 
Aquarius, Pisces. Aries. Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo. 

7. Libra:- Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius. 
Pisces. Aries. Taurus. Gemini, Cancer, Leo. Virgo. 

8. Scorpio:- Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, Leo, Cancer. Gemini, 
Taurus, Aries, Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn, Sagittarius. 

9. Sagittarius:- Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra. Virgo. Leo. 


66 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Cancer. Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces. Aquarius. Capricorn. 

10.Capricorn:- Capricorn. Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra. Virgo. 
Leo. Cancer, Gemini. Taurus, Aries, Pisces, Aquarius. 

11. Aquarius:- Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, Gemini. 
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn. 

12. Pisces:- Pisces, Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer. Leo, 
Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn. Aquarius. 

DASA VARSHA:- (Years of dasa-signs.) Count the number 
of signs from the dasa-sign to its lord directly if the dasa-sign 
belongs to the oja pada group.This number minus one gives 
thenumber of years of the dasa-sign.Count the number of signs 
from the dasa-sign to its lord reversely if the dasa-sign belongs to 
the samapadagroup.This number minus one gives the number of 
years ofthe dasa-sign.Ifthe lord of the dsa-sign is exalted add 
one yearto the above.Ifthe lord of the dasa-sign is debilitated 
subtract one year.Dasa-sign occupied by its own lord gets 12 
years. ‘ 

Illustration-See the example chart-1. Ascdt=Scorpio. Since 
the 9th house ofthe Ascdt is Cancer which is in the samapada 
group, the dasa-signs begin from the Ascdt (scorpio) reversely. 
Sothe dasa-signs are reversely Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, Leo, Cancer 
Gemini, Taurus Aries etc. Scorpio=7yrs, (because Mars the lord 
of scorpio is in Gemini-8-I=7 This is because Scorpio is in the 
oja pada group. Count is direct.) Libra=8yrs (.because Venus the 
lord of Libra is in Gemini). Virgo=4yrs (because Mercury is in 
Taurus and Virgo is in the samapada group. So the count reversely 
5-] =4 thus dasa-varsha could be counted for the 12 dasa-signs. 

Method-2 of Chara Dasa- This opens from the Ascdt and 
the succession of the dasa-signs from the Ascdt is direct and 
regular ifthe Ascdt is an odd and cardinal sign. The succession 
of the dasa-signs is reverse and regular from the Ascdt if the 
Ascdt is even and cardinal. If the Ascdt is an odd and fixed sign 


Phalitha Dasas 67 
the succession of the dasa-signs is direct and every 6th from the 
Ascdt. If the Ascdt is even and fixed the succession of the dasa- 
signs is reverse in the order of every 6th.from the Ascdt. If the 
ascdt is an odd and dual sign the succession of the dasa- signs is 
direct and in the order of 1, 5, 9 from the Ascdt. 
Ascendant Dasa-Signs 
Aries Aries. Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, 
Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius. 
Capricorn. Aquarius. Pisces. 
Taurus Taurus. Sagittarius, Cancer, Aquarius, 
Virgo, Aries, Scorpio, Gemini. 
Capricorn, Leo. Pisces, Libra. 
Gemini Gemini, Libra, Aquarius. Cancer, 
Scorpio. Pisces, Leo, Sagittarius, 
Aries, Virgo, Capricorn, Taurus. 
Cancer Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces, 
Aquarius. Capricorn, Sagittarius. 
Scorpio, Libra, Virgo Leo. 
Leo Leo, Capricorn, Gemini, Scorpio, 
Aries, Virgo, Aquarius. Cancer 
Sagittarius, Taurus, Libra, Pisces. 
Virgo Virgo. Taurus, Capricorn. Leo, Aries, 
Sagittarius, Cancer, Pisces, Scorpio. 
Gemini, Aquarius. Libra. 
Libra. Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricom, 
Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus. 
Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo. 
Scorpio. Scorpio. Gemini. Capricorn, Leo, 
Pisces. Libra, Taurus, Sagittarius 
Cancer. Aquarius, Virgo, Aries. 
Sagittarius Sagittarius, Aries, Leo, Capricorn. 
Taurus, Virgo, Aquarius, Gemini 
Libra. Pisces, Cancer, Scorpio 
Capricorn Capricom, Sagittarius. Scorpio. Libra. 


68 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

Virgo. Leo, Cancer. Gemini. Taurus. 
Aries, Pisces Aquarius. 

Aquarius Aquarius. Cancer, Sagittarius. Taurus, 
Libra, Pisces. Leo. Capricorn Gemini, 
Scorpio. Aries, Virgo. 

Pisces. Pisces, Scorpio, Cancer, Aquarius. 
Libra, Gemini, Capricorn, Virgo 
Taurus, Sagittarius, Leo, Aries. 

Dasa-Varsha- If the lord of the dasa-sign is in the odd sign 
count the number of the dasa-signs from the lord of the dasa-sign 
to the dasa-sign directly. This number is the number of years of 
the dasa-sign.If the lord of the dasa-sign is in the even sign count 
the number of the dasa-signs from the lord of the dasa-sign to the 
dasa-sign reversely. This number is the number of years of the 
dasa-sign.The dasa-sign occupied by its own lord gets ]2years. 
The convention of the planetary exaltation or debilitation should 
not be considered in the count. For example-IfMars occupies 
Aries, give 12 years to it 1f Mars is in Taurus give 2 years to 
Aries das-sign by the count reversely from Taurus to Aries. 

If Mars is in Gemini, Aries dasa-sign gets 11 years 

Illustration-See the Rasi Chart-1 (Section-1). Ascdt=Scorpio. 
So Chara Dasa.begins from Scorpio. 

The das-signs are Scorpio=6. Gemini=12, Capricorn=11, 
Leo= 10, Pisces= 12, Libra=5, Taurus=12, and so on. 

CHARA DASA in Female Horoscope:- Find out the 4th 
house of the Ascdt by prakriti chakra. The dasa-signs from the 
4th house run according to the vikriti chakra pada krama.For 
example-the Ascdt is Aries.So the dasa-signs are Cancer, Leo, 
Virgo, Libra Scorpio. Sagittarius, etc. Suppose the Ascdt is 
Taurus. Then the dasa-signs are Aquarius, Virgo, Aries, Scorpio. 


Gemini, Capricorn etc. See the table below- 


Phalitha Dasas 


Ascendant 


69 
Dasa-Signs 


Amies........................ Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, 


Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius. 
Pisces, Arie, Taurus, Gemini 
Aquarius Virgo, Aries, Scorpio, 
Gemini, Capricorn Leo, Pisces, Libra, 
Taurus, Sagittarius Cancer 


GOT oioeseeed ehececteee Virgo, Capricorn. Taurus, Libra. 


CANCER Aeiisebscaieteteted 


LG0 terete kee: 


VITSO. veges hen deceenete 


Aquarius, Gemini Scorpio, Pisces. 
Cancer, Sagittarius, Aries, Leo. 
Aries, Pisces, Aquarius. Capricorn, 
Sagittarius, Scorpio Libra, Virgo, Leo, 
Cancer. Gemini, Taurus, 

Scorpio, Aries, Virgo, Aquarius 
Cancer, Sagittarius, Taurus, Libra, 
Pisces, Leo, Capricorn, Gemini. 
Gemini, Aquarius, Libra, Taurus, 
Capricorn, Virgo Aries, Sagittarius, 
Leo, Pisces, Scorpio, Cancer, 


Libra sc isc egaeeectene Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, 


Sagittarius. ............... 


Capricorn. ...........2.... 


Aquarius 


Taurus, Gemini, Cancer Leo, Virgo, 
Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius. 

Leo, Pisces, Libra, Taurus, Sagittarius, 
Cancer, Aquarius Virgo, Aries, 
Scorpio Gemini Capricorn. 

Pisces, Cancer, Scorpio, Aries, Leo, 
Sagittarius, Taurus Virgo. Capricom, 
Gemini, Libra, Aquarius. 

Libra, Virgo, Leo, Cancer, Gemini, 
Taurus, Aries, Pisces, Aquarius. 
Capricom, Sagittarius Scorpio 
Taurus, Libra. Pisces. Leo, Capricorn. 


70 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Gemini, Scorpio Aries, Virgo. 
Aquarius, Cancer, Sagittarius 
PISCESS is. « ... . Sagittarius, Leo Aries, Scorpio. 
Cancer, Pisces, Libra, Gemini. 
Aquarius, Virgo, Taurus, Capricom. 

Dasa-Varsha in Chara Dasa in female horoscope- 

The count of Years of each dasa-sign should be from the lord 
of the dasa-sign to the dasa-sign by the prakriti chakra. If the 
dasa-sign is an odd sign count the number of signs from the lord 
of the dasa-sign to the dasa-sign directly. This number minus one 
is the number of years of the dasa-sign. If the dasa-sign is an 
even sign count the number of signs from the lord of the dasa- 
sign to the dasa-sign reversely. This number minus one is the 
number of years of the dasa-sign. Dasa-Sign occupied by its own 
lord gets 12 years. Dasa-sign with its lord in its 7th house gets 10 
years. Planetary exaltation or debilitation need not be considered 
in the count of dasa-years. 

Illustrated chart of Indira Gandhi:19-11-1917 at 11.12pm 
Ascndant=Cancer Leo=Mars, 

Scorpio=Sun, Mercury, Sagittarius=Venus, Rahu, 
Cancer=Moon, Taurus=Jupiter, Gemini=Ketu. Cancer=Satum. 
Chara dasa begins from the 4th sign of the Ascdt by prakriti chakra. 
This is Aries. So the dasas run from Aries reversely by Vvikriti 
chakra. So the dasa-signs are Aries, Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn. 
Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, Virgo. Leo, Cancer, Gemini, Taurus. 
Dasa-varsha 

Aries=8, Pisces=2, Aquarius=7, Capricorn=10, 
Sagittarius=7, Scorpio=9. Libra= 10, Virgo=2 Leo=9, Cancer= 10, 
Gemini=7. Taurus=7. 

Results of Chara Dasa- 

1. Libra. Taurus. Cancer, Pisces, Sagittarius. Virgo, and 
Gemini dasa-signs give benefic results. Marriage, gettingjob, or 
promotion in job. are probable in the said dasa-signs. 


Phalitha Dasas 71 

The best of the above is Gemini in the order shown above. 

2. Leo, Aries. Scorpio, Capricorn nd Aquarius dasa-signs give 
evil results. Aquarius is the worst of all. Financial worries, 
litigations trobles in job like suspensions, frequent transfers. 

3. Dasa-sign Scorpio istroublesome till the period of antar 
dasa-sign occupied by Ketu. 

4. Dasa-sign of Capricorn causes anxiety either in the 
beginning or in the end. 

5. Dasa-sign occupied by Rahu causes troubles related to 
job. houseor lands 

6. Dasa-sign of Aquarius occupied by Rahu does good to the 
native. He may go abroad 

and make his earnings. 

7. Dasa-sign of Scorpio occupied by Ketu is beneficent to 
the native in matters of marriage, job etc. 

8. The 6th, 8th, 12th dasa-signs of the Ascdt are generally 
bad. 

9. Dasa-sign occupied by Ketu is good generally. 

10. If both the Moon and Venus occupy the 2nd of the dasa- 
sign the native gets fabulous wealth. 

11.1f both the Moon and Venus occupy the 12thof the dasa- 
sign the native loses his wealth. 

12. If Rahu is in the 2nd of the dasa-sign the native spends 
away his wealth. 

13.1f Rahu is in the | 2thof the dasa-sign. troubles in job are 
certain. 

14. 1f Mars and Ketu are associated in the 12th of the dasa- 
sign fire accident is probable. 

15. The event of marriage could be timed in dasa-sign & 
antar dasa-sign occupied by darakaraka., ketu. or Venus, (2), in 
the 7th of the Ascdt or arudhalagna (3 in the 7th dasa-sign occupied 
by atmakaraka, 4) in the upapada dasasign5) inthe2nd of 
upapada.6) Darapada dasa-sign. 


72 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

16. The event of getting job or promotion is probable -I) 
dasa-sign occupied by Sun or Venus or by both. 2) in the dasa- 
sign with its Sth or 9th sign occupied or aspected by Venus, Jupiter, 
or the Moon. 3)in the I Oth dasa-sign occupied or aspected by 
benefics or own orexalted planets and 4) in the dasa-sign with its 
1 Oth occupied or aspected by benefics. 


CHARA PARYAYA DASA:- 


If the Ascdt is occupied by any of the three viz Jupiter. 
Mercury, Atmakaraka begin this Dasa from the Ascdt.lf the 5th 
house of the Ascdt is occupied by any of three mentioned above 
begin this Dasa from the the 5th house. Ifthe 9th house of the 
Ascdt is occupied by any of the three mentioned above begin this 
Dasafrom the 9th house. 


If the starting Dasa is a movable sign, the Dasa-signs run 
regularly. If the starting dasa-sign is a fixed sign the dasa-signs 
run in the order of every 6th. If the starting dasa-sign is dual sign 
the dasa-signs run in the order of Kendras, Panaparas next and 
then the apoklimas follow. If the beginning dasa- sign is an odd 
sign the dasa-signs run direct. If the beginning dasa-sign is an 
even sign the dasa-signs run reversely See the Rasi Chart-I in 
section-1. The Ascdt is Scorpio. But its 5th house is Pisces, 
occupied by Jupiter. So CharaParyaya Dasa begins from Pisces. 
which is even and dual. Sign. So the dasa-signs are Pisces, 
Sagittarius, Virgo, Gemini, Aquarius, Scorpio, Leo, Taurus 
Capricorn,etc Dasa-years- (Atmakaraka=Mars) 1. 
Pisces(Mars)=10Oyrs 2. Sagittariu(Venus)=7 .3 Virgo (Rahu)=4. 
4 Gemini (Ketu)=7. 5 Aquarius (Jupiter)=2.6. Scorpio (Moon)=1 I 
7 Leo (Saturn)=4.8 Taurus (Mercury)=12 9 Capricorn (Sun)=9 
10. Libra (A.KMars)=9 II. Cancer (Venus)=2. 12. 
Aries(Rahu)=2. 

N.B: The Dasa years are counted from the Dasa-sign to the 
Atmakaraka and planets in the Kendras, Panaparas and Apoklimas 
from the Atmakaraka. The count should be direct if the dasa-sign 


Phalitha Dasas 73 
is odd and reverse if it is even. The dasa-signlords are given in 
the brackets. 

Dwara and Bahya Dasa-signs. If the commencing dasa-sign 
is odd and cardinal the Ist, 3rd. 5th, 7th, 9th, 11th are the 
bahyadasa-signs of the first six das-signs (dwara) and the same 
bahya dasa-signs are repeated for the next six dwaradasa-signs. 

For example Aries the Ascdt is the commencing dasa-signs 
the 12 dasa-signs are from Aries to Pisces Sothe bahya dasa-sign 
respectively are I.Aries (1)2. Gemini (3)3. Leo (5) 4. Libra (7) 
5. Sagittarius (9) 6. Aquarius (11). The same are repeated. for 
the six dasa-signs from Libra to Pisces. The same count should 
be reverse in the case of even & cardinal dasa-signs. See the 
Table for sun dasa=signs; the rest may be similarly understood. 


Tables of Dwara and Bahya Dasa-signs 


Commencing Dasa-sign=AriesCommencing Dasa- 
sign=Cancer 


Dwara Bahya Dwara Bahya 

Aries Aries(I) Cancer Cancer(1) 
Taurus Gemini(3) Gemini Taurus(3) 
Gemini Leo(5) Taurus Pisces(5) 
Cancer Libra(7) Aries Capricorn(7) 
Leo Sagittarius(9) — Pisces Scorpio(9) 
Virgo Aquarius(11) = Aquarius Virgo(I)) 
Libra Aries(1) Capricom Cancer(1) 
Scorpo Gemini(3) Sagittarius Taurus(3) 
Sagittarius Leo(5) Scorpio Pisces(5) 
Capricom Libra(7) Libra Capricorn(7) 
Aquarius Sagittarius(9) Virgo Scorpio(9) 
Pisces Aquarius(11) Leo Virgo(11) 


Commencing Dasa-sign=Aquariua Commencing Dasa- 
sign=Scorpio 


74 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 


Dwara Bahya Dwara Bahya 
Aquarius Aquarius(1) Scorpio Scorpio( 1) 
Cancer Sag ittarius(11} Gemini Capricorn( 11) 
Sagittarius Libra(9) Capricom Pisces(9) 
Taurus Leo(7) Leo Taurus(7) 
Libra Gemini(5) Pisces Cancer(5) 
Pisces Aries(3) Libra Virgo) 

Leo Aquarius !) Taurus Scorpio(l) 
Capricorn _ Sagittarius(I1) Sagittarius Capricom(11) 
Gemini Libra(9) Cancer Pisces(9) 
Scorpio Leo(7) Aquarius Taurus(7) 
Aries Gemini(5) Virgo Cancer(5) 


Virgo Aries(3) Aries Virgo(3) 
Commencing Dasa-sign=Sagittarius Commencing 
Dasa-sign= Pisces 


Dwara Bahya Dwara Bahya 
Sagittarius Sagittarius(1) Pisces Pisces( 1) 
Pisces Gemini (7) Sagittarius Virgo(7) 
Gemini Sagittarius(1} Virgo Pisces(l) 
Virgo Gemini(7) Gemini Virgo(7) 
Capricorn Aquarius (3) Aquarius Capricom(3) 
Aries Leo (9) Scorpio Cancer(9) 
Cancer Aquarius (3) Leo Capricom(3) 
Libra Leo (9) Taurus Cancer(9) 
Aquarius Aries(5) Capricorn Scorpio(5) 
Taurus Libra(11) Libra Taurus( 11) 
Leo Aries(5) Cancer Scorpio(5) 


Scorpio Libra(IT) Aries Taurus( 11) 


Phalitha Dasas 75 

Results in Chara paryaya Dasa: |. If both dwara and bahya 
dasa-signs are afflicted by malefics. troubles like imprisonment, 
fevers etc are probable. 

2. Whether the dwara or bahya dasa-sign though occupied by 
malefics does not create troubles.if the malefic owns the dwara 
or bahya dasa-sigu. 

3.The malefic in the dwara or bahya dasa-sign if associated 
with Jupiter does not create trouble. 

4.The results Of Trikona Dasa may be judged in Chara paryaya 
Dasa. 

STHIRA PARYA DASA:- Ascertain whether the Ascdt or 
its 7th house is stronger as is done in Chara paryaya Dasa. Sthira 
paryaya Dasa opens from the Ascdt or its 7th house whichever is 
stronger. So the first dasa-sign is either the Ascdt or its 7th house. 
The second dasa-sign is the 7th sign of the first dasa-sign. The 
third dasa-sign is the second sign of the first dasa-sign.The fourth 
dasa-sign is the 2nd of the 7th sign.The fifth dasa-sign is the 3rd 
sign of the first dasa-sign. Thus the [2 dasa-signs may be 
written..The order of the dasa-signs should be according to Prakriti 
chakra. 

In female horoscope, Sthira paryaya Dasa opens from the 
4th house of the Ascdt or 7th house whichever is stronger. The 
order of the dasa-signs is according to vikriti chakra. The 
succession of the dasa signs mentioned may be understood from 
the tables of Dwara and Bahya given below for the Ascdts 
(Aries& Taurus). The rest may be similarly understood. 


76 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 


Male Horoscope 


Commencing Dasa-sign=Aries Commencing Dasa- 
sign=Taurus 
Dwara Bahya Dwara Bahya 
Aries Aries(l) Taurus Taurus (1) 
Libra Aries(1) Scorpio Taurus (1) 
Taurus Gemini(3) Aries Pisces (3) 
Scorpio Gemini(3) Libra Pisces (3) 
Gemini Leo(5) Pisces Capricorn (5) 
Sagittarius Leo(5) Virgo Capricorn (5) 
Cancer Libra(7) Aquarius Scorpio (7) 
Capricom Libra(7) Leo Scorpio (7) 
Leo Sagittarius(9) | Capricorn Virgo (9) 
Aquarius Sagittarius(9) | Cancer Virgo (9) 
Virgo Aquarius(11) Sagittarius Cancer (11) 
Pisces Aquarius(11) = Gemini Cancer (11) 


Female Horoscope: 


Commencing Dasa-sign=AriesCommencing Dasa- 
sign=Taurus 
Dwara Bahya Dwara Bahya 
Aries Aries (1) Taurus Taurus (1) 
Libra Aries (1) Scorpio Taurus (1) 
Pisces Aquarius (1}) Gemini Cancer (11) 
Virgo Aquarius (1}) Sagittarius Cancer (11) 
Aquarius Sagittarius (9) Cancer Virgo (9) 
Leo Sagittarius (9) Capricorn Virgo (9) 
Capricorn Libra (7) Leo Scorpio (7) 
Cancer Libra (7) Aquarius Scorpio (7) 
Sagittarius Leo (5) Virgo Capricorn (5) 
Gemini Leo (5) Pisces Capricorn (5) 
Scorpio Gemini(3) Libra Pisces (3) 
Taurus Gemini(3) Aries Pisces (3) 


Phalitha Dasas 77 
The dwara and bahya dasa-signs of the rest of the Ascdts could 

be understood similarly. 

Dasa-Varsha: The count should be from the dasa-sign to the lord 

of the dasa-sign by prakriti chakra, like the lords of the dasa- 

signs in Chara paryaya Dasa. The lords are the Atmakaraka and 

the planets in kendras, panaparas and apoklimas... 

Illustration:-Rasi chart-1 in Section-]. Ascdt=Scorpio 
Atmakaraka=Mars...The Ascdt is occupied by Saturn while its 
7th house is occupied by Sun and Mercury. So Sthira paryaya 
Dasa begins from the 7th house (Taurus). because the 7th house 
is occupied by two planets while the Ascdt is occupied by one 
planet. So Sthira paryadasa begins from Taurus. 

The dasa signs are: 

Taurus(Mars)=12, Scorpio(venus)=6,Aries(Rahu)=3, 
Libra(ketu)=3, Pisces(Jupiter)=12, Virgo(Moon)=9, 
Aquarius(Saturn)=10, Leo(Sun)=10, Capricorn(Mercury)=9, 
Cancer(Mars)=2, Sagittarius( Venus)=7, Gemini (Rahu)=12. 

TRIKONA DASA: 


Male Horoscope: Find the strongest of the Ascendant, the 
5th and the 9th house by A.K. Jupiter and Mercury by association 
or aspect. Trikona Dasa begins from the strongest among the 
Ascendant, 5th and 9th houses and the order of the dasa signs 
runs by the Padakrama. If the strongest is an even sign, Trikona 
dasa begins from its Sammukha sign and the order of the dasa 
signs runs by the Padakrama according to the Cardinal, Fixed 
and dual nature of the commencing dasa sign. For. example, the 
strongest of the Ascendant, 5th and 9th houses in Male horoscope 
is Aries. Then the dasa signs are Aries to Pisces in the direct 
order. Suppose the strongest is Taurus, the dasa signs are Libra 
to Virgo in the direct order. Suppose the strongest is Gemini, the 
dual sign, then the dasa signs are Gemini, Libra. Aquarius. Cancer. 
Scorpio. Pisces, Leo, Sagittarius, Aries. Virgo, Capricorn. Taurus. 


78 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology- 
Suppose the strongest sign is Cancer. then the dasa signs are 
Aquarius. Cancer, Sagittarius. Taurus, Libra, Pisces, Leo. 
Capricorn, Gemini, Scorpio, Aries, Virgo. Thus the dasa signs 
can be found out from the commencing dasa signs in the direct 
and Padakrama order. 

Female Horoscope: If the strongest of the ascendant, 5th house 
and 9th house is an odd sign, take its Sammukha sign to begin 
Trikona dasa. If the strongest is the even sign, begin Trikona dasa 
from it. In both the cases, since the commencing dasa sign is 
even, the dasa signs run in the reverse and Padakrama order 
according to the cardinal, fixed and dual nature of the commencing 
dasa sign. 


Male Horoscope: Trikona Dasa 


Commencing Dasa sign Dasa signs 


Aries or Scorpio.......... Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo. 
Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius. 
Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces. 

Taurus or Libra .......... Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, 
Taurus. Gemini. Cancer, Leo. 
Virgo. 

Gemini or Virgo.......... Gemini, Libra, Aquarius, Cancer, 
Scoripio, Pisces, Leo, Sagittarius. 
Aries, Virgo, Capricorn, Taurus. 

Cancer or Aquarius. ... . Aquarius, Cancer, Sagittarius, 
Taurus,Libra, Pisces, Leo. 
Capricorn, Gemini,Scorpio, Aries. 
Virgo. 

Leo or Capricorm......... Leo. Capricorn, Gemini, Scorpio. 
Aries. Virgo, Aquarius. Cancer. 


Phalitha Dasas 79 
Sagittarius, Taurus. Libra. Pisces. 
Sagittarius or Pisces... Sagittarius, Aries, Leo, Capricorn. 
Taurus, Virgo, Aquarius, Gemini. 
Libra, Pisces, Cancer, Scorpio. 
Female Horoscope: 
Commencing Dasa sign Dasa signs 


Aries or Scorpio........... Scorpio, Gemini, Capricorn, Leo, 
Pisces, Libra, Taurus, Sagittarius, 
Cancer, Aquarius, Virgo, Aries. 

Taurus or Libra...........! Taurus, Sagittarius, Cancer, 
Aquarius, Virgo. Aries, Scorpio, 
Gemini, Capricorn, Leo, Pisces, 
Libra. 

Gemini or Virgo............ Virgo, Taurus, Capricorn, Leo, 
Aries, Sagittarius, Cancer, Pisces, 
Scorpio. Gemini, Aquarius, Libra. 

Cancer or Aquarius—Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries. 
Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn, 
Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, 
Leo. 

Leo or Capricom..........! Capricorn, Sagittarius. Scorpio, 
Libra, Virgo. Leo, Cancer, Gemini. 
Taurus. Aries, Pisces. Aquarius. 

Sagittarius or Pisces..... Pisces, Scorpio, Cancer, Aquarius, 
Libra, Gemini, Capricorn, Virgo, 
Taurus, Sagittarius, Leo, Aries. 

Dwara, Bahya signs in Trikona dasa: 

The Dwara, bahya signs for the cardinal and fixed ascendants 
are same as those of the cardinal and fixed ascendants in 
Charaparyayadasa. But for dual signs the Bahya signs differ as 
follows: 


80 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 
Commencing Dasa sign = GeminiCommencing Dasa sign = 


Virgo 
Dwara Bahya Dwara Bahya 
Gemini Gemini(l) Virgo Virgo (1) 
Libra Aquarius (9) Taurus Capricorn (9) 
Aquarius Scorpio(6) Capricorn Aries (6) 
Cancer Leo(3) Leo Cancer (3) 
Scoripio Aries(11) Aries Scorpio (11) 
Pisces Capricorn (8) — Sagittarius Aquarius (8) 
Leo Gemini(l) Cancer Virgo (1) 
Sagittarius Aquarius (9) Pisces Capricorn (9) 
Aries Scorpio(6) Scorpio Aries (6) 
Virgo Leo(3) Gemini Cancer (3) 
Capricon _ Aries(11) Aquarius Scorpio (11) 
Taurus Capricorn (8) Libra Aquarius (8) 


Dasa varsha in Trikona Dasa: The count should be by 


Prakriti chakra. Count the number of signs from the dasa signs to 
the preceeding sign of the sign occupied by the dasa sign-lord. 
This number is the number of the years of the dasa-sign. The 
count should be direct from the dasa sign if it is odd or reverse If 
it is even. Dasa sign occupied by its lord gets 12 years. Dasa sign 
with its Lord in its 7th gets IO years. If the dasa sign lord is 
exalted. add [ year to the count. If the dasa sign lord is debilitated 
subtract 1 year from the count. 

Illustration:—Rasi Chart-1 Ascdt=Scorpio=Saturn 
Sagittarius=Ketu, Capricom=Moon .Pisces=Jupiter, Taurus=Sun. 
Mercury Gemini=Mars, Venus, Rahu The 5th Pisces occupied 
by Jupiter is the strongest. So the Tnkona Dasa should start from 
Pisces.but it is an even sign. So Trikona Dasa should begin from 
the sammukha sign.Sagittarius (male horoscope). So the dasa- 
signs arc Sagittarius. Aries. Leo, Capricorn, Taurus. Virgo, 


Phalitha Dasas 81 
Aquarius, Gemini, Libra Pisces. Cancer. Scorpio. The dasa years 
are respectively 3,2,.9,2,1,4, 9,11,9,12,10,5. 

Results in Trikona Dasa-Benefics in the 2nd and 5th houses 
of the dasa-sign-secures job 

Melefics in the 3rd and 6th-victory over enemies. Benefics 
in the 4th-happiness. 

Benefics in the 8th -maintains good health. Benefics instead 
of malefics and malefics instead of benefics in the above places 
give contrary results.Both benefics and malefics in the above 
places give mixed results. 

Results in Trikona Dasa=1. Malefics in both dwara and bahya 
signs=ill health and mental anguish. 2. Malefics in 7th of dwara 
and bahya signs=ill health to wife. 3. Malefics in the 4th= change 
of place or transfer. 4. Malefics in the 5th=grief due to progeny. 
5. Malefics in the 10th=loss of reputation. 6. Malefics in the 9th 
=toubles to father.7.Maleficsin te 8th of dwara -sign=troubles. 

Results Common to all the Sign-Dasas= 

1.Moon and Venus in the 2nd of the dasa-sign by prakriti 
chakra-fabulous wealth. 

2. Moon and Venus in the I2th-loss of money due to govt. 

3. Rahu in the 2nd-heavy expenditure of money. 

4, Rahu in the 12th-trouble from fever. 

5. Dasa-sign occupied by Rahu-Wanderings to distant places. 

6. Cardinal dasa-sign=frequent transfers. 

Results of Exalted and Debilitated Planets 

1. Exalted Sun =favour from govt.gain of corn,cattle etc 

2. Debilitated Sun=wrath of govt, disease in neck and throat, 
eye disease, head ache, fear from quadrepeds. 

3. Exalted Moon = gain of cloth from foreign country, gain of 
land. 

4. Debilitated Moon=troubles and ill health to mother. 


82 A Manual of Jaimini Astrology 

5. Exalted Mars=army -chief. lively- hood by litigations. 

6. Debilitated Mars=imprisonment 

7. Exalted Mercury =construction wells,temples, and devotion 
to Vishnu 

8. Debilitated Mercury =disease intounge.tphoid. « 

9. Exalted Jupiter=performance of Yajnas, writing of books. 
fame. 

10. Debilitated Jupiter=scandal,distaste in food etc 

11. Exalted Venus=enjoyment of luxuries. 

12. Debilitated Venus=scandal to wife. humiliation 

13. Exalted Saturn=construction of temple, leadership 

14. Debilitated Saturn=windy disease 

15.Exalted Rahu=tendency to fight 

16. Debilitated Rahu=receives punishment 

17. Exalted Ketu=devotion to Vishnu 

18. Debilitated Ketu=imprisonment. 

Transit Results: |. When the Sun with one or two benefics 
transits the sign occupied by Yogada the native secures job. 2. 
When the Sun with one or two malefics transits the sign occupied 
by Yogada or when debilitated in tasign, contrary results are 
expected. 3. When the Moon transits the yogada sign the native 
feels happy. 4. At the time of Mars transiting the Yogada sign the 
native suffers from boils etc. 5. At the time of Mercury transiting 
the yogada sign the native feels happy with vedic activities. 6. 
When Jupiter transits the Yogada sign the native secures govt 
job. 7. When Venustransits the Yogada sign marriage 
happens.attains honour.8.When Saturn transits the Yogada sign 
mental anguishis the result. 9. When Rahu transits the Yogada 
sign bad name bad activities. are the results. 

10. Similarly the results may be judged when the benefics or 
malefics transit the trikonas of the dasa-signs 1] .By the malefic 
aspect .bad results.by the benefic aspect good results may be 
judged. 12. If the 12thhouse lord with one or two benefics transit 
the Yogadasign expenditure of moncy.in the performance of 
marriage, Yajnaetc. 


Phalitha Dasas 83 
Reckoning of Tara Dasa- 


Tara Dasa commences from Tara Lagna and the order of dasa- 
signs from Tara Lagna is direct if the Tara Lagna is an odd sign. 
Aries. Gemini. Leo. Libra. Scorpio, Aquarius are the six odd 
signs. TaraLagna begins from Tara Lagna and the order of the 
dasa-signs is reverse if Tara Lagna is an even sign. Taurus Cancer. 
Virgo. Scorpio. Capricorn. Pisces are the six even signs.Each 
dasa-sign commencing from Tara Lagna gets 9 years. and each 
antar dasa-sign gets 9 months. 

Antar dasa-signs in Tara Dasa. 1 . The antar dasa-signs of the 
dasa-signs run direct ifthe atmakaraka (or Saturn) is placed in 
the odd sign of the ojapada group, but reverse if the atmakaraka(or 
Saturn) is placed in the even sign ofthe ojapada group. 2.The 
antar dasa-signs of the dasa-signs run direct ifthe atmakaraka(or 
Saturn) is placed in the even sign of the samapada group but 
reverse if the atmakaraka (or aSaturn)is placed in the odd sign of 
the samapada group. 

Ojapada Group=Aries. Taurus. Gemini. Libra, Scorpio, 
Sagittarius. 

Sama pada Group=Cancer, Leo, Virgo Capricorn. Aquarius, 
Pisces. 

Calculation of Tara Lagna: Convert the elapsed Vimsottari 
dasa years at the time of birth into months. Divide this number 
by Vimsottari dasa year constant (Sun=6, Moon=10, Mars=7, 
Rahu=18. Jupiter=16, Saturn=19 Mercury=|7, Ketu=7. 
Venus=20.) The quotient+1 when counted from the Ascdt gives 
Tara Lagna. Bur for Ketu count reversely from the Ascdt to get 
Tara Lagna. 

I|lustration=Bom on 25-4-1969 Ascdt =Scorpio Atmakaraka 
= Mercury. Elapsed vimsottari dasayears=6 or 72 months. This 
w hen divided by 17 we get the quotient4 +1 =5. So we get Pisces 
the 5th house from the Ascdt. So Pisces is the Tara Lagna occupied 
by exalted Venus. Hence the dasa-signs are Pisces Aquarius. 
Capricorn. Sagittarius. Scorpio Libra etc. 


Om tat sat. 


