A Text Book of 


Astrology 


Editor 
Arun K. Bansal 


Author 


Anil Kumar Jain 


About the Author 


ANIL KUMAR JAIN 


A mechanical engineer by profession & working in a 
senior position with Indian Railways, Anil Kumar Jain is 
the founder member & Vice president of Astro Science 
Research Organization (ASRO). ASRO is a premier 
organization in the capital for imparting education in 
Astrology. 


He is an active faculty at ASRO for last more than 10 years. 
He has contributed number of research papers in 
Astrology. He has been awarded various titles including 
Pracharya awarded during Mystique India exhibition held 
in New Delhi in 1997. He is a popular figure both in 
electronic media as well as press. He has conducted 
pioneer research in financial astrology. He is writing 
columns in leading papers of country. According to him 
astrology is an exact knowledge & is a tool for self & 
management. 


244/5A, Railway Aptts. 
Panchkuian Road, New Delhi-110001 
Tel.- 3360412 


sg 


i 


CONTENTS 


Zodiac, SIGNS & Pewee. oes. eel ek ae ed ee ceeded iectioenes 1 
Planets & their Characteristics. .......00.000.0 cece cect eeteteeeeretieeeteettetteeenees 7 
CNaraclenstics: Of CACM SiGe seis sineccci see ccasasdeazgne cdiasa deed tadareeoncgterde ater 27 
Houses : Their Significations & Significators..........0..00.. ceed 36 
CASING OF FIGKOSCODG: 5 isi 6jadiil 20 hye etn ettas adi Sa tial gts Daehd alpmteninbsieiec ats 40 
Calculation of Ascendant & 12 HOUSES. ............0. occ 47 
Planety POsions cont cua irae tears tue ee oe re ees era 63 
Casting of Horoscope Lagna & Challit....0.0000.00 coco eet eteceeeee 72 
Vimshottari Dasa Calculation.......00..00000.000c ccc cece cette eeeeeteetteeeteeeees 74 
DIVISIOMENO MANS st acthat hat cathe Laal ical eae daplactiybinta Renta aretat bette tnaiaes: 80 
Planets in Different Houses : Prediction..............00000000 cece 105 


Planetry Combinations Or YOQ€S...........00ccccccccccccseecentsetecsecessetenseeesaas 152 


Chapter-1 


Zodiac, Signs and Planets 


Celestial System 


The mother earth rotates on its axis once in 24 hrs and revolves around the Sun in 

365.2422 days. Various planets like Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter & Saturn also 

revolve around the Sun. These planets have satellites revolving round them. Earth has 
one satellite called Moon revolving around it. The complete Solar system also revolves 
around the centre of our Galaxy "Milky Way" and makes one round in little hrs than 

26000 years. The Galaxy has many solar systems with different Suns at their centres. 
Galaxy is shaped like two saucers placed one over the other and our solar system is 

revolving around it on one side of it. 


As earth revolves around the Sun, we see from earth stars around us in the sky. On 
account of motion of Earth around the Sun, the Sun appears to move round the stars 
once in a year. The line along which the Sun moves is called the Ecliptic. The broad 
band or belt in the heaven extending 9° on either side of the Ecliptic is known as 
Zodiac. The Ecliptic passes through centre of zodiac longitudinally. The zodiac revolves 
once in a day on its axis from east to west. 


Solar System 


a HH Se ey 
ae me 
mt tee 


oe & 
eae mw, % 
oe OH Se ny lo 
rr hel i se a 
aoe 08 we ny “me te ° 
. or ay . . 
we ee 
% 
% *. 
& * 
% * 
* 


’ ” ae Sy & ‘ 
{ sun@ Mercury Eatth 
Ss @ Q i & 


a A 
© ee 


“ 
ee 
eat A 0 HOE He age 

«™ ese 


‘s = ? ® , 
aad 
‘. Sweet ¢ Mars 
Cad 
o + 


cad 
wet 
ed 


mm. 
8 ee aay eee 
™ wot 
mk ek ne evs en an ot OO a wn oe 
* ea eg mo 
5 AO me a ae ts ot ok mk kn Hs tk we 
rs 
om ae te 
PM set sn et a a a not nw ane 


el 
me wn ee 
SS em on ae me am a 


Celestial Sphere —_ Celestial North Pole 


: Summer 
Autumnal . Solstice 
Equinox. 


Celestial South 
Pole 


Solstice 


The zodiac is divided into twelve equal parts, for purpose of astrology, called signs, 
which are named after the imaginary figures which the stars form in each division. 
Since zodiac consists of 360°, each sign will consist of 360°/12=30°. The signs are 
known as Rashis. 


Our sages identified twelve group of stars separated appox.30° each in the 360° 
celestial sphere. Thus we have 12 Rashis. They divided the celestial sphere in 12 
parts because moon moves around the earth 12 times during the time earth revolved 
round the Sun. 


Nakshatra 


Looking at the daily movement of Moon, sages also identified 27 constellations around 
the celestial sohere called Ashwini, Bharni etc. They are separated by 360 /27= 13 20'. 
Every day Moon crosses over one constellation. Start of Ashwini matches with the 
start of first sign Aries. 


From earth we see a celestial body passing over a sign, this helps us know the location 
of that body. In astronomy we define planet as a celestial body which revolves round 
the Sun and a body which revolves round a planet is called a satellite. Sun is termed 
as a star. 


In astrology planet is defined differently. Since man lives on earth and we want to study 
effect of celestial bodies on human beings, we study the motion of celestial bodies with 
respect to earth i.e. we take earth in centre and measure position of bodies around it, 
including. Sun, Moon and other planets. To measure the position we take far placed 
stars as fixed and use them to know the coordinates/position of the other celestial bodies. 
In astrology we define a planet as any celestial body revolving round the earth; thus Sun 
& Moon are considered as planets for the purpose of astrology. 


A Text Book of Astrology 


What is Rahu/ Ketu 


Earth revolves round the sun in a plane called Ecliptic. Moon revolves round the earth in 
a different plane which intersects ecliptic in a line. The point from where Moon seems to 
be going up is called Rahu & the point where Moon seems to be going down is called 
Ketu. These are only imaginary points but have special importance became their position 
define the eclipse - Solar or Lunar. lf Moon, Earth & Sun are in line with Rahu or Ketu, an 
eclipse is formed. Since eclipse plays an important role on earth and in astrology too, 
Rahu/Ketu are important and are given the status of planets. 


The planets including Earth move in one direction - anti Clockwise around the sun. 
When the planets and the earth are on the same side of the sun, the planet seems to 
be moving in the opposite direction from earth. This motion is called retrogression of 
planet e.g. while earth moves from A to B & then C, Mars also moves from A to B to C 
and its degree changes from 200 to 180 to 160 as thus it appears to be moving in 
opposite direction. 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Planets 


The names of different planets according to the Indian and western system and their 
symbols are as under: 


Indian name Western name Symbol 
Ravi or Surya Sun © 
Chandra Moon ) 
Mangal or Kuja_ = Mars 3 
Budha Mercury 8 
Guruor Brahaspati Jupiter 4 
Shukra Venus 9 
Shani Saturn h 
Rahu Dragon's Head a 
Ketu Dragon's Tail 89 
Indra Uranus H 
Varun Neptune y 
Vayu Pluto Pp 


On account of motion of Earth around the Sun, the Sun appears to move round the 
stars once in a year. The line along which the Sun moves is called the Ecliptic. The 
broad band or belt in the heaven extending 9° on either side of the Ecliptic is known as 
Zodiac. The Ecliptic passes through centre of zodiac longitudinally. The zodiac revolves 
once in a day on its axis from east to west. 


The zodiac is divided into twelve equal parts, for purpose of astrology, called signs, 
which are named after the imaginary figures which the stars form in each division. 
Since zodiac consists of 360°, each sign will consist of 360°/12=30°. The signs are 
known as Rashis. 


The twelve signs of Zodiac both in the Indian and western system and their symbols 
are as under: - 


S.No. Indian Name Western Name Symbol 
1 Mesha Aries tH 
2 Vrishabha Taurus i] 
3 Mithuna Gemini 0 
4 Kark Cancer ee 
5 Simha Leo L 
6 Kanya Virgo 1 
7 Tula Libra 2 
8 Vrishchik Scorpio Tl, 
9 Dhanu Sagittarius x 
10 Makar Capricorn 8 
11 Kumbha Aquarius WN 
12 Meena Pisces # 


AText Book of Astrology 


Constellations (Nakshatras) 


If Zodiac is divided into 27 equal parts then each part will be of 360°/27= 13°20’. 
These 27 parts are known as constellations and each constellation measures 13°20' 
of arc of zodiac. Each constellation is further divided into four equal parts known as 
padas. Each Pada will measure 3°20'. Each Rasi, therefore, contains 2 % constellations 
or 9 Padas. 


The names of 27 constellations with their longitudinal span in zodiac are as under: 


|Nakshtras | Span inthe zodiac | sign _| 


ele 


3 

- 
[Ara fsstosor | Sens 
a er a 
ja. [ Aslesha] 106%40-120° 

Uttara: Phalguni 7 
Swati 
Visakha 

17. | Anuradha 

j : 


— 
i<o} 


Ce co 


Sagittarius 


Mh 
+10 


iw) 
i) 


226°40°240° 
9 


) 
ao 


Satabhisha 306°40'-320° 

Purvabhadrapada | 320°-333°20' 

Uttarabhadrapada | 333°20'-346°40' tae 
Pisces 


Revati 346°40'-360° 


ee He) 
oy 


6 


NO} PD 
N 


A Text Book of Astrology 5 


Signs and constellation are owned by planets, which are known as their lords. The 
lords of different signs and constellation are as under: - 


Signs and Lords 


Constellation and Lords 


1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
a 
8. 
9. 


—_ eh 
M2 


Aries Mars 


Taurus Venus 
Gemini Mercury 
Moon 


Leo Sun 


Cancer 


Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 


Mercury 
Venus 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Aquarius Saturn 


Pisces Jupiter 


Constellation Constellation Constellation 


Ketu 
Venus 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 


Jupiter 
Saturn 


Mercury 


1.Aswini 

2. Bharani 
3. Krittika 

4. Rohini 

5. Mrigsira 
6. Ardra 

7. Punarvasu 
8. Pushya 

9. Aslesha 


10. Magha 

11. Purva phalguni 
12. Ut.phalguni 
13. Hasta 

14. Chitra 

15. Swati 

16. Visakha 

17. Anuradha 
18.Jyeshta 


19. Moola 

20. Purva-ashada 

21. Uttara-ashada 

22. Sharavana 

23. Dhanishta 

24. Satabhisha 

25. Purvabhadrapada 
26.Uttara-bhadrapada 
27.Revati 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Chapter-2 
Planets & Their Characteristics 


SUN © 


The Sun is the center of solar system. Its 

mean distance from earth is! 

14,96,00,000 kms. It is nearest to earth 

in January every year when it is 

14,71,03,000 kms and farthest in July | 

when its distance from earth is| 

15,21 ,06,000 kms. Its diameter is 13,92 

000 kms (109.3 times of earth's diameter), surface area is 6.087 
x 10'? square kms. (1,20,000 times of earth's surface area), Volume is 1.41 x 1018 
cubic kms. (1,306,000 times the earth's volume) and mass is 1.99 x 10°°kgs. The 
average rotation of Sun in zodiac is 1 ° per day and therefore it takes exactly one year 
to go around the zodiac. 


Sun is a symbol of spirit. Itis considered as soul of kalapursha. Sun is considered as 
king of all planets. Possibly Sunday is kept as a holiday every where so that people 
are able to worship Sun on Sundays. Sun represents lord Brahma with his four faces 
causing the four seasons and four elements (Fire, Air, Earth, Water). The Sun offers us 
power of resistance and vitality. It rules our consciousness. It gives us force and will 
power and makes one determined and decisive. 


Sun is hot, dry, masculine and positive planet. He is god of Fire and fiery in nature. Sun 
is lord of direction East and governs ‘Grishma’ season (June-July). His color is orange. 
Sun represents father of the native, kings, the government and those in authority. 


Sun gives the native honey colored eyes and large and round face. It makes color of 
body and hair lighter in shade and gives a bilious temperament. Parts of the body 
ruled by Sun are heart, head, brain, right eye in males and left eye in females, bones, 
mouth, spleen, throat, lungs, arteries, blood and its circulation. 

When Sun is afflicted it makes the native arrogant, mean, boasttul, irritable, jealous, 
wavering temperament, angry, proud, immoral. 

When Sun is beneficial it gives boldness, commanding ability, fame, position, dignity, 
vitality, energy, happiness, royal appearance, optimism, power, success, good health, 
warmth, affection, good temperament, respect to elders, honour from government, 
wealth. 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Health: 


The diseases indicated by Sun are heart problems, epilepsy, cerebral disorders, 
meningitis, aphasia, polypus, eye disease, high fever, baldness, low blood pressure, 
and sunstroke. 


Products: 


The products represented by Sun are rice, groundnut, coconut, almonds, chillies, 
myrobalans, wheat, lavender, saffron, gur, pungent taste juice, orange, asafoetida, 
cardamoms, poison, laurel, vermin, cedar, marigold, pod grains etc. 


Animals : 


Sun represents all majestic animals like lion, boar, horse, and serpents. It also 
represents Lark, swan, nightingale and other singing birds. 


Abode : 


Sun represents places like mountains, forests, Shiva temples, fortress, government 
buildings, public offices like District Boards, panchayat etc. 


Precious metals & Gems : 


Gems represented by Sun are Gold, Copper and Ruby. Native whose lord of ascendant is 
Sun can wear the ring of Ruby in copper or gold in ring finger in the constellation of Sun. 


MOON 


The average distance between Earth and 

Moon is 3,84,400 kms. Because of elliptical 

shape of the orbits of Sun and Moon, minimum 

and maximum distance between Earth and 

Moon is 3,638,000 kms. and 4,06,000 kms 

respectively. The radius of moon is approx 

1738 kms. (0.2725 times the radius of earth) 

and mass of moon is 1/81.3 of the earth's 
mass. In fact moon is a satellite of earth but in astrology it is considered as a planet 
because of its size and proximity to earth. The moon can be observed to cross any 
particular celestial meridian, every 27.32166 days, which is the sidereal period of 
Moon. The period between the one full moon and next full moon is 29.5306 days which 
is also called lunar month. 


Mythology: 


Moon is negative, giving changeable and elastic nature and rules over personality and 
form. Moon is considered as mind of kalpurush. Moon is the queen of solar system. 
She is the Virgin Mary of the Roman Catholics and the mother of the Heavens. While 


8 A Text Book of Astrology 


the Sun pours spirit and life to all planetary bodies, the moon governs over the life of 
the beings on earth. She is the Luna (Diana), the Queen of the night. She is the Goddess 
and also a huntress. She governs chastity as well as fertility. 


Nature : 


Moon is a cold, moist, feminine, changeable, receptive and negative planet. She is 
lord of North -West direction and governs Varsha Ritu (August- September). Moon 

is watery in nature. Her color is silvery white or sea - green. Her chief domain is over 
the mind, the sleep, and all the fruits of the earth and flowers. She rules over the multitude, 
the masses, travelling, female relatives, commerce, business, and such professions 
which deal in liquids. She rules over the place of residence. 


Physical Features: 


Moon gives the native corpulent body, white complexion, lovely eyes, black and thin 
hair, tender speech and mild temper. Parts of the body ruled by moon are left eye of 
the male and the right eye of the female, breasts, esophagus, stomach, uterus, ovaries, 
lymphatic, bladder, synovial fluid. Waxing moon rules over the arteries, motor nerves 
and the muscles while the waning moon rules the veins, sensory nerves, sense organs 
and the glands. 


Effects: 

When Moon is afflicted she makes the native unfortunate, sick in infancy and old age, 
deformed, impulsive, over anxious, indecisive, rash, depressed, pessimistic. 

When Moon is beneficial she gives high position in public life, good family life, courtesy, 
amiable nature, easy-going and pleasing personality, timidness, magnetism, desire 


for wealth and worldly things, interest for psychic subjects and taste for all delicious 
fruits. 


Health: 


The diseases indicated by moon are lunacy, eye-disease, paralysis, hysteria, epilepsy, 
colic, cough and cold, measles, intestinal problems, dyspepsia, hydrocele, diseases 

caused due to excess of drink, bronchitis, asthma, tumors, nervous debility, dysentery, 
cancer, typhoid. 


Products: 


The products represented by moon are oranges, melon, white poppy, cucumber, palm, 
mushroom, algae, wintergreen, pumpkin, mercury, Sugarcane, cabbage, cauliflower, 
lettuce, betel leaves, silver, salt, rice, cream, foreign liquor, fruit juice, pearl, curd, herbs. 


Animals: 
Moon represents animals like dog, cat, mouse, amphibious creatures, horse. She 
also represents goose, crab, duck, water- bird, tortoise, owl, and oyster. 


A Text Book of Astrology 9 


Abode: 


Moon represents places like mountains, fortresses, ocean, river, place of residence etc. 
Metals & Gems : 


Precious Gems represented by moon are pearl and all white stones. Metals represented 
are Silver, tin, and other white metals. Native whose lord of ascendant is moon can 
wear the ring of these stones in silver in ring finger in the constellation of moon. 


MARS GI 

Mars is a red planet. It moves around the Sun 

at a mean distance approximately 1.52 times 

that of earth from Sun. It completes its orbit in 

686.9804 mean earth solar days and spins on 

axis in 24 hours 39 minutes and 22.6689 

seconds. Itmoves in its orbit ata mean velocity | 

of 24.1 kms/ second. Mars has a volume of 1.62 

x 1011 cubic kms, surface area of 1.43 x 108 
square kms, mass equal to 6.423 x 10% kms and density equal to 3.96 gm/ cubic 
centimeter. Mars completes one orbit in roughly the time earth completes two orbits. 
When it is closest to earth, it is retrograde and is visible during mid night. This appears 
at an interval of 779.94 earth's days. Mars has two satellites namely Phobos and 
Diamos. 


Mars is said to be the deity of Buddhists and the god of Romans. He is also god of 
war. According to Hindus, Mars is Lord Muruga, Subramanya or Kumaraswami. He is 
commander- in- chief of the celestial army. 


Mars is a dry, fiery and masculine planet. Mars is a malefic planet. Mars is the lord of 
south direction and governs Grishma Ritu (June -July) Mars rules Sam Veda. It is hot 
and barren and rules over fuming acids. It governs mainly over brothers, lands and 
enterprise. The power of logical reasoning, boldness, war like natures are endowed 
by Mars. Mars rules over contentions, wars, strife, epidemics, mental aberrations etc. 
Mars is significant for energy both constructive and destructive. Worst type of sexualities 
is governed by Mars. Such people adopt novel ways to satisfy their sexual desire. 
They may adopt malpractice and may enjoy in giving pain to sexual partners. Martians 
are said to be extremists. 


He symbolizes the senses and thus rules over the animal instincts in man. He signifies 
the fighting power. Mars gives determination, the desire to succeed in the material 
field, favours, learning of sciences and governs all foreign voyages. 


Mars gives the native white complexion with a shade of red. Native will be tall, muscular, 
having slender waist, curly and shining hair, fierce red eyes, cruel nature and fickle 


10 A Text Book of Astrology 


mind. Native will be having pimples on face, eyes will be round. Bones will be full of red 
bone marrow. Native will be well disciplined, passionate and aggressive. Parts of 
body ruled by Mars are forehead, left ear, nose, muscular system, external sex organs, 
blood vessels, uterus, kidneys, prostate gland, groins, rectum, colon, testicles and red 
bone marrow. 


When Mars is afflicted it gives rash and aggressive spirit, combative & destructive 
nature. It also makes the native headstrong and unruly, impulsive and fickle, vain, 
jealous, severe and unfeeling, quarrelsome, drunkard and violent. 


When Mars is beneficial it makes the native adventurous and independent, generous, 
ambitious, enthusiastic, exercising free will, upright, accommodative and diplomatic. 
Such people dislike small undertakings but enjoy execution of large projects. Many 
pioneers, leaders, heroes, warriors and explorers are having beneficial Mars. 


The diseases indicated by Mars are all acute fevers and inflammatory complaints, 
smallpox, burns, measles, ruptures of blood vessels, fistulas, wound by iron or steel, 
hemorrhages, hernia, stones, abortions, appendicitis, sunstroke, rnuscular rheumatism, 
carbuncles, tetanus, deformity etc. 


The products represented by Mars are walnut, cashewnut, betelnut, groundnut, ginger, 
mustard, garlic, brandy, whisky, arrack, toddy, metallic oxides, axe, knife, sword, gun, 
landed properties, thorny plants, old instruments, coriander etc. 


Mars represents animals like tiger, wolf and other savage beasts, elephant, hunting 
dog. It also represents birds like hawk, kite, vultures and other birds of prey. 


Mars represents places like battlefield, slaughter-houses, smith's shops, police station, 
and industrial area. 


Precious Metals/Gems represented by Mars are copper, coral, ruby and all red stones. 
Native whose lord of ascendant is Mars can wear the ring of these stones in copper or 
gold in ring or index finger in the constellation of Mars. 


MERCURY S 


The mean distance of Mercury from Sun is 58 x 
10°kms. Due to its closeness with Sun, it is difficult 
to be observed with naked eye. It travels at a speed 
of 48 km per second. Its mass is 0.054 times that 
of earth's mass, diameter is 4868 kms and density 
5.2 gms per cubic cms. Its sidereal time is 87.969 
earth days. It has no satellite. It does not go beyond 
28 from Sun. 


Hindus regard Mercury as God Keshav, Narayan, Madhav etc. In other words it 
represents protective agency. It is a prince in planetary cabinet. So like a child it does 


A Text Book of Astrology 11 


not act independently and borrows the characteristics of the planet with which it is 
associated. 


Its chief domain is over mind, memory, intellect, intelligence, perception, knowledge, 
reason, fertility of resources, commerce and education, powers of speech and writing, 
ability for editing, art of painting and sculpture. It gives the person ready wit, an easy 
acquisition and command over many languages, taste for and competence in 
philosophy, mathematics and accountancy. It rules over central nervous system. It is a 
planet of intelligence and is responsible for retentive power and reproductive ability. It 
makes one talkative, witty and learned. 


Mercury is a variable, convertible, feminine, neutral and dualistic planet. Mercury is the 
lord of north direction and governs 'Sarad' Ritu (October- November). Its color is green. 
It rules our business, correspondence, bookselling, hygiene, deities, food, literary 

pursuits, paper money, bank balance. Mercury is the chief governor for education and 

uncle. It is a planet of oration and speech. 


Mercury gives the native a green tint and native is full of veins. Native is pleasant in 
speech and fun loving. Native has long and red eyes and has well formed limbs. It 
makes the body tall and slender. Native is of average height with eyebrows curved 
with much hair. Parts of the body ruled by Mercury are nose, brain, hands, tongue, 
lungs and nervous system. It is also lord of skin. 


When Mercury is afflicted the native will be clever, cunning and mischievous, anonymous 
petition writer. His tongue and pen will work against those whom he does not like. He 
will be gambler, liar, conceited and showy person. He will be talkative, eccentric, 
unprincipled, inconsistent and boastful. He will work according to his whims. Native 
will have stammering speech, lack of memory and fluency, having too many occupations, 
propensity for lying, spreading scandals. 


When Mercury is beneficial it makes the native intelligent, having quick grasp and 
good retentive memory. Itgives ability for oratory and for mastering many languages, 
increases mental ability and argumentative power. It gives power of enquiry into many 
subjects including literature, collecting every kind of information and enhances business 
ability. It gives intuitive ability and native works with speed and accuracy and is 
successful in all enterprises. 


The diseases indicated by Mercury are insanity, mental aberration, loss of speech, 
impotency, defective tongue, deafness, leucoderma, headaches, neuralgia, insomnia, 
giddiness, convulsions, hysteria, spasms etc. 


The products represented by Mercury are betel leaves, walnut, spinach, plants in 
general, nut tree, medlar, willow, quince, male fern, caraway, ghee, other oils, green 
color pulses, green colored clothes etc. 


Mercury represents animals like dog, goat, ape, weasel, fox, parrot and reptiles. 


12 A Text Book of Astrology 


Places represented by Mercury are universities, colleges, schools, all commercial 
centers, and fields for playing games and sports, hunting places. 


Precious metals/gems represented by Mercury are bell's metal, quick silver, emerald, 
limestone. Native whose lord of ascendant is Mercury can wear the ring of emerald in 
silver/gold in little finger in the constellation of Mercury. 


JUPITER 2l 


The Jupiter is most massive of all the planets. It 

is larger than all other planets put together. Its 

distance from the Sun is 76, 97, 73, 940 kms, 

sidereal period 11.86 earth years. The max 

radius of Jupiter is 71350 kms (11.2 times that | 

of earth) and min. radius is 66600 kms (10.4 

times that of earth). It is 317.8 times heavier than 

earth. It rotates on its own axis in 9 hours 55 minutes. Jupiter has 
12 satellites. The four main satellites are known as lo, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto. 
Itis next to Sun in size and orb and in brightness next to the Venus. 


Jupiter is a planet of expansion. It is also called Deva Guru. Jupiter is considered to 
be ateacher who removes the ignorance and darkness and offers wisdom by throwing 
light. It represents the "Sattvaguna" of the Hindus. It rules over man's worldly 
possessions and fortunes and hence is called the Giver or Ruler of money. Jupiter 
represents social justice, religion and sincerity. In the olden days the physicians used 
to administer medicine in the hora of Jupiter. Nowadays doctors write Rx on prescription 
slip before prescribing any medicine. In fact it is asymbol of Jupiter and any doctor 
would like to take blessing of Jupiter before writing prescription. 


Jupiter is fiery, noble, benevolent, fruitful, masculine, jovial, buoyant. Jupiter is the lord 
of North-East direction and governs Hemanta Ritu (December and January). Its color 
is golden, purple or violet and rules over the metals tin, gold, topaz and platinum. 
Sweet and fragrant are the flowers of Jupiter. It is the lord of finance and children. It 
governs education, happiness, health, love and respect towards elders and preceptors, 
good morals and conduct, wealth, respect, reputation and charity etc. 


Jupiter gives the native golden complexion, brown eyes and hair. Jupiterians have 
good growth in youth, have muscular body due to outdoor games and become so 
stout that they must be respected for their growth. Jupiterians always get the seats 
vacated for them even in crowd. Native has corpulent and tall body and is wise and 
learned. He has loud and heavy voice. Parts of the body ruled by Jupiter are liver, 
tumors, circulation of blood in arteries, fat in the body, adipose tissue, morbid growths, 
pleura of lungs, kidney, thigh, feet, right ear. 


A Text Book of Astrology 13 


When Jupiter is afflicted it makes native extremist, having extravagant ideas, careless, 
over optimistic, gambler, poor, unpopular, lavish. It gives false hopes, failure in 
speculation, worry through children, loss by relying on others, misjudgment, 
miscalculation etc. 


When Jupiter is beneficial it gives good health and longevity. Native is jovial, hopeful, 
buoyant, humane, and of broad - minded nature. It bestows worldly wisdom, good 
fortune, and dignity, social and moral success, prudence, progress and much expansion 
in all efforts. Rapid recoveries even from severe disease are offered. Native thinks 
properly, does his work ably and judges properly. Native uses fair means to earn money 
and never gets benefitted by loss of others. 


The diseases indicated by Jupiter are blood poisoning, liver complaints, flatulence, 
dyspepsia, hernia, skin disease, catarrh, dropsy, mucus in urine, abscesses, 
carbuncles, diabetes, eczema, vertigo etc. 


The products represented by Jupiter are all fat containing food products like butter, 
ghee etc., sweet flavored eatables like oranges, banana etc., big trees like peepal 
tree, rubber, yellow colored flowers and vegetables, oak, elm, birch, figs, asparagus, 
beet, pinks, red roses, dog grass, apricots, gram, pulse etc. 


Jupiter represents animals like horse, ox, elephant, stag, and domestic animals. It 
also represents eagle, peacock, pheasant, whale, dolphin etc. 


Jupiter represents places like courts, pompous buildings, places where coronation and 
religious functions are conducted, temples, colleges, schools, legislative assembly etc. 


Precious metals and gems represented by Jupiter are gold, platinum, topaz and yellow 
sapphire. Native whose lord of ascendant is Jupiter can wear the ring of yellow sapphire 
in gold in index finger in the constellation of Jupiter. 


VENUS 


Venus revolves around the Sun in nearly a 

circular orbit. It’s mean distance from the Sun 

is 10.75 x 10’kms. The mean orbital velocity | 

of Venus is approx 35 km. per second; its mass 

is 0.81 times that of earth, its diameter is 12100 

kms, and density 5.1 gm/cms. Its sidereal period 

is 224.7 earth days and its synodic period is 

583.921 earth days. Venus sets after Sunset and 
rises before Sun rises. Venus is the brightest planet, which is due to the reflecting 
power of its atmosphere. For the observers on earth, Venus can never be more than 
48° away from Sun. When Venus is 48° away from Sun and is the evening star, it can 
be seen in the sky for about 3 hours 12 minutes after sunset. 


14 A Text Book of Astrology 


While Jupiter is Deva Guru, Venus is considered as Asura Guru. Venus is considered 
a Goddess of love, marriage, beauty and comforts. Itis called Mahalakshmi, wife of 
lord Vishnu. Venus is one - eyed. Since it rules all kinds of beauty, pleasure, passion 
etc, itis called by the Greeks Aphrodite. It is the chief governor of wife. It gives immense 
taste and fancy for all pleasure-giving and luxurious things. Intelligence coupled with 
an artistic taste and fineness is bestowed by Venus. It is also significator of vehicles 
and property in affluent area. Venus is called Kama, one's passion. 


Venus is afeminine, warm, temperate and fruitful planet. Venus is the lord of direction 
South- East and governs Vasanta Ritu (April and May). Venus rules Yajur Veda. Its 
color is white, dark blue, lemon yellow. It rules marriage, youthfulness, sexual pleasure, 
scents, flowers, ability to compose music and drama, inclination to take light and rich 
food. It also indicates the partner in business. 


Venus gives the native average height, plumpy body, round face with pimples, wheatish 
complexion, pleasing eyes, pleasing voice, sweet smile and curly hair. It gives attractive 
personality and sexual vitality. Native is the preceptor of demons. Parts of the body 
ruled by Venus are eyes, reproductive system, throat, chin, cheeks, kidneys, hair etc. 


When Venus is afflicted it gives deprived sexual tendencies, immoral character, 
excessive drinking, number of marriages, loss of children, separation from beloved, 
mental aberrations, injuries, loss of money, sex scandals, loss of prestige. 


When Venus is beneficial it gives the native unperturbed and enjoyable career. It is 
sure to give continuous good luck even though person is not endowed with the intrinsic 
worth necessary for the attainment of it. Native is fond of company of opposite sex and 
is of artistic nature. Native may become successful musician or actor. 


The diseases indicated by Venus are venereal disease including gonorrhea and 
syphilis, infection in eyes, skin diseases like eczema, leprosy, leucoderma, enlarged 
tonsils, Bright’s disease, renal glycosuria, cysts, swelling, goiter, irregularities in 
cataneria, uraemia, disease of ovaries, mucous disease, gout, anaemia and disease 
arising through the use of cosmetics or through over-indulgence in amusement, eating, 
drinking. 

The products represented by Venus are finished textile goods, silk and rayon products, 
fancy goods, electronics items, perfumery, toilets, photography, film, hosiery for ladies, 
confectionery, sandalwood oil, fruits, flowers, sugar, cars, ships, airplanes, petrol, pig 
tree, pomegranate, apple tree, dandelion, elder flowers, white poppy, gooseberry, 
peppermint, cherry, chestnut, thyme, agaru, nutmeg, players. 


Venus represents animals like goat, panther, bull. It also represents birds like dove, 
sparrow, and wren. 

Venus represents places like bedroom, cinema theatre, garden, fountains, banquet 
hall, automobile industries, shipping yards, aerodromes, mines, glass manufacturing 
places, discotheque, red light areas. 


A Text Book of Astrology 15 


Precious metals and gems represented by Venus are platinum, white metal and silver 
diamond, beryl coral, jade, and alabaster. Native whose lord of ascendant is Venus 
can wear ring of diamond in platinum or gold in middle finger in the constellation of 
Venus. 


SATURN 


Saturn's mean distance from earth is 14.11 x 10s. 
The nearest distance of Saturn from Sun is 


13.29x10 kms and farthest distance from Sun is 

14.93x10 kms. It completes a revolution around 

the Sun in 29.46 years. The mass of Saturn is 95.14 

times that of earth, volume 748.7 times that of earth 

and its density is only 0.7 times that of water. Saturn 

has 10 satellites. The Titan and Lapetus are 
massive satellites of Saturn. Titan is about the same size as the planet Mercury. Its dia 
is 4777 kms. The dia of Lapetus is 1752 kms. Three concentric rings surround Saturn. 
These rings are separate and there is only black empty space in between any two 
rings, Saturn appears like a blue ball with 3 yellow rings. 
Saturn is called Yama because it is the chief governor of longevity. Saturn is the father 
of Gulika and Mandi. It is also called Neelan and lord Shiva. Saturn is son of Sun. 
Some people say that Saturn represents ‘Brahma’. Saturn is the counterfeit of Jupiter 
as former destroys while the latter applies pressures and expands. Saturn is also 
called St. Peter holding the keys of both Heaven and Hell. It rules over hard and laborious 
work as well as over responsible positions in life. Saturn is a planet of delay. 
Saturn is barren, binding, cold, constant, dry, defensive, hard, nervous and secretive 
planet. It is the lord of West direction and governs Shishir Ritu (February and march). 
Its color is blue, jet black and indigo. It is considered as an evil planet and it reigns 
over poverty, misfortune, death, unending problems, delays, hindrances, chronic and 
lingering diseases, old age etc. 


Saturn gives the native dark color, thin built, prominent veins, thick nails, protruding 
teeth, coarse and thick hair, long hands and feet. From the face native appears older 
than his actual age. Native is dirty, angry, dreadful, foolish, full of wrinkles and a 
talebearer. Native is merciless and melancholic. Saturn makes one a little deaf. 


Parts of the body represented by Saturn are the right ear, obstruction of bodily fluids, 
obstruction in urine and retention of waste materials, hardening of synovial membrane, 
teeth, bones, knees, spinal chord, hairand growth. 

Where Saturn is afflicted it causes delays, disappointment, disharmony, dispute, 
despondency, dejection, differences, distrust etc. It gives persistent bad luck, up-hill 
struggles, sorrows and disappointments. It makes the native drunkard, gambler, lazy 
and lethargic. 


16 A Text Book of Astrology 


When Saturn is beneficial it gives good qualities like endurance, economy, thrift, 

patience, perseverance, power of retaining secrets, permanence, stability, self control, 
sense of duty towards God and man, accuracy, precaution in all matters. It develops in 
an individual truth, charity, power of meditation and concentration, sincerity, prudence, 
asceticism etc. 


The diseases indicated by Saturn are cancer, paralysis, sciatica, Bright's disease, 
colds, deafness, tooth decay, diphtheria, insanity, rheumatism, asthma, consumption, 
defective speech, catarrh, gallstones, curvature of spine, hemorrhoids, asthma, gout, 
skin disease, fracture etc. 


The products represented by Saturn are kerosene, petrol, coal, mine ores, leather, 
hides, skin, wood, potato, black pulses, barley, rye, mustard oil, wine, black articles, 
plantain, ivy, hemp, hellebore, aconite, thistle, leguminous seeds. 


Satu represents animals like cat, asses, hare, wolves, bear, crocodile, serpents and 
venomous creatures, buffaloes, camels. It also represents birds like eel, sea fish, bats 
and owls. 


Saturn represents places like hills, forests, deserts, caves, dens and old and ruined 
buildings, churches, temples, trenches, wells, stinking places, slum areas, dirty places 
tanning factories, bone factory etc. 


Precious gems/ metals represented by Satu are blue sapphire, amethyst, iron, lead, 
steel and antimony. Native whose lord of ascendant is Saturn can wear the ring of blue 
sapphire in gold in middle finger in the constellation of Saturn. 


&3 RAHU AND KETU VU 


There are different names given to Rahu and Ketu 

like Nodes, Shadows, Head and Tail, Caput, Cauda sg tm 

etc. The Moon is a satellite of the earth revolving 

around it in an orbit inclined to that of the earth round 

the Sun at an angle of approximately 5° The Moon 

completes its orbit round the earth in about a month 

crossing the orbit of earth twice in the same period, 

once when it goes from south to north and at another 
time while traveling from north to south. The ascending point is called 'Rahu' and 
descending point 'Ketu'. These have retrograde motion in the zodiac at the rate of 
19°20' per year. 
There is a fundamental difference between Rahu and Ketu and the other planets. The 
other planets are bodies of physical mass having form, shape, color, gravity, 
atmosphere, motion etc. On the other hand Rahu and Ketu are two imaginary points in 
the heavens without mass, shape or form. They are the points of intersection of the 


A Text Book of Astrology 17 


apparent path of the Sun with the path of Moon. It has been established beyond doubt 
that Rahu and Ketu influence an individual's life, at times more than other planets. 
Since they are in exact opposition to each other, their effect should be considered 
simultaneously. 


Rahu and Ketu give the effects of the lords of the signs they are in and also of those 
planets which are situated with them, not having much individual characteristics of 
their own. Rahu is known as Dragon's head and Ketu as Dragon's tail. Head is forward 
looking while the tail represents the past. The Rahu represents the qualities to be 
developed and work to be done during the present incarnation and Ketu denotes the 
qualities during past lives and these indicate attitudes that come naturally to the native. 
They are classified as Karmic planets. 


According to Hindu astrology both Rahu and Ketu are malefic. Rahu is considered as 
‘giver' and Ketu the ‘taker’ and since giving and taking are results of former action, 
they may be considered as planets of 'gains' and losses'. Ketu is considered as a 
spiritual force causing salvation to human souls and Rahu is more earthly indicating 
mundane prosperity. The effects of the Nodes is not always evil, they are also productive 
and causing Raj yogas. By and large Nodes play a constructive role because after 
making the native pass through various difficult phases, they also enable him to progress 
spiritually. However, if the Nodes conjoin Mars or Saturn without any behefic aspect, 
life is marked by misery, struggle and misunderstanding throughout. Rahu is also 
considered a diplomat and Ketu a seer. Rahu and Ketu eclipse the Sun and Moon 
representing the soul and mind respectively. Hence they have a great influence on the 
soul's liberation or rebirth. Rahu or Ketu within 2 degrees of the ascendant give an 
unusual type of personality and a very distinctive appearance. 


Rahu and Ketu signify one born in low caste, dissatisfied, fond of travelling, telling lie, 
harsh in speech, involved in unnatural sex. They also indicate change of residence, ill 
health, dual marriage, serpents, mosquitoes, insects, spices, southwest direction etc. 
Part of the body represented by them are buttocks, intestinal tract. The diseases 
indicated by them are hiccups, insanity, intestinal problems, ulcer, gastric problems 
etc. The products represented by them are meat, wine, eggs, radish, coconut, sacrifice 
of animal's etc. 


Rahu has the properties of Saturn whereas ketu has the influence of Mars. Rahu is 
feminine. Its gem is Agate or Lapis lazuli. Rahu is said to resemble Saturn. Rahu 
governs paternal grandfather and maternal grandmother. Ketu is eunuch. Its gem is 
turquoise. Ketu is said to be conducive to liberation. Ketu is said to be similar to Mars 
in giving effects. Ketu rules maternal grandfather and paternal grandmother. Rahu 
represents the tall while Ketu represents the short persons. 


Uranus, Neptune and Pluto will not be discussed in this book as firstly these are very 
slow moving planets and secondly these are hardly considered by astrologers for 
making predictions. 


18 A Text Book of Astrology 


GROUPING OF PLANETS 


Luminaries 
Malefic Planets 


Benefic Planets 


Superior Planets 

Inferior Planets 

Sex of Planets : 
Sun, Mars, Jupiter 
Moon, Venus 
Mercury, Saturn 

Caste of Planets : 
Jupiter, Venus 
Sun, Mars 
Mercury, Moon 
Saturn 

Qualities of planets: 
Sun, Moon, Jupiter 
Venus, Mercury 
Mars, Saturn 

Directions of Planets : 


Sun 

Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Satum 
Rahu/Ketu 


A Text Book of Astrology 


: Sun, Moon 
: Sun, Saturn, Mars, Waning Moon, (Rahu, Ketu, Afflicted 


Mercury) 


: Jupiter, Venus, Waxing Moon, Well associated Mercury 


(If waning Moon and Mercury are together, both become 
benefic) 


: Mars, Jupiter, Saturn 
: Mercury, Venus 


Males 
Females 
Neutrals 


Brahmins 
Kshatriya 
Vaishya 
Shoodra 


Satwik 
Rajsik 
Tamasik 


East 

North -West 
South 

North 
North-East 
South- East 
West 
South-West 


Abodes of Planets : 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Satum 
Seasons of Planets : 
Venus 
Sun, Mars 
Moon 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Satum 
Temperament of Planets : 
Sun, Mars 
Satum 
Jupiter, Moon, Venus 
Mercury 
Taste of Planets : 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Satum 
Elements of Planets : 
Mercury 
Moon, Venus 
Sun, Mars 
Saturn 
Jupiter 


20 


Temple 

Watery Place 
Place of Fire 
Play ground 
Treasure house 
Bed Room 
Dirty Place 


Vasant 
Grishma 
Varsha 
Sarad 
Hemanta 
Sisir 


Pitta or Bile 
Vata or wind 
Kapha or phlegm 
Mixture of all 


Pungent 
Saline 
Bitter 
Mixed 
Sweet 
Sour 
Astringent 


Prithivi 
Jala 
Agni 
Vayu 
Akash - 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Complexion of Planets : 


Mars and Sun : Blood- red 
Moon : Tawny 
Mercury : Green 
Jupiter : Tawny 
Venus : Variegated 
Saturn : Dark 
Physical constituents of Planets 
Sun : Bones 
Moon : Blood 
Mars : Marrow 
Mercury : Skin 
Jupiter : Fat 
Venus < Semen 
Saturn : Muscles 
Cabinet of Planets 
Sun and Moon : Royal couple 
Mars : Commander-in-chief 
Mercury : Prince 
Jupiter and Venus : Ministers 
Saturn ; Servant 
Senses of planets : 
Sun and Mars : Vision 
Moon, Venus : Taste 
Mercury i Smell 
Jupiter : Hearing 
Saturn : Touch 
Periods of Planets : 
Sun t Six Months 
Moon : 48 Minutes 
Mars : A day (Consisting of day and Night) 
Mercury : Two Months 
Jupiter : One Month 
Venus : A Fortnight 
Saturn : A Year 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Gems of Planets : 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Satum 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Metals of Planets : 


Mars & Sun 
Moon and Venus 
Mercury 

Jupiter 

Satum 

Rahu and Ketu 


Robes of Planets : 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Trees of Planets : 


22 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Satum 


Ruby 

Pearl 

Coral 

Emerald 

Yellow Sapphire or Topaz 
Diamond 

Blue Sapphire 

Gomed 

Cat's eye 


Copper 
Silver 

Bell's metal 
Gold 

lron 

Lead 


Coarse 

New 

Bumt 

Water soaked 

Of recent origin but not new 
Durable 

Tom 


Tree with stout trunks 

Milky trees(e.g. rubber yielding plants) 
Bitter trees (Like lemon plants) 
Fruitless trees 

Fruitful trees 

Floral Plants 

Useless trees 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Other Characteristics of Planets 
Average Daily motion of planets in zodiac : 


Sun 

Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 
Rahu/Ketu 


Planetary Aspects 


All Planets aspect 7" house from the position occupied by them. However Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn, Rahu, Ketu, have special aspect besides 7" aspect. The planetary aspects 
are as under:- 


Sun, Mercury, Venus - 7* 

Mars - gh 7h gh 
Jupiter, Rahu, Ketu = -_— 5h, 7th, gth 
Saturn - 3 7h, 4th 


Exaltation, Debilitation and Mooltrikona signs/ degrees of Planets 


Exaltation | Debilitation} Exaltation/ } Mooltrikona Degrees 
Sign Sign Debilitation | Signs 
Degrees 
Sun Aries Libra Leo 0°-20° 


Moon Taurus Scorpio Taurus 4°-20° 
Mars Capricorn | Cancer Aries 0°-12° 


Mercury | Virgo Pisces Virgo 16°-20° 
Jupiter | Cancer Capricorn Sagittarius 0°-10° 
Venus | Pisces Virgo Libra 0°-15° — 
Saturn | Libra Aries Aquarius 0° -20° 
Rahu Taurus Scorpio Virgo 15° 
Ketu Scorpio Taurus Pisces 15° 


A Text Book of Astrology 23 


Inter Planetary Relationships 
Planets have three kinds of relationships: 


1. Permanent/ Natural/ Naisargik:- This is a permanent relationship and is not 
influenced by position of planets in the zodiac. Due to their inherent nature, the planets 
are friendly with certain planets and inimical to others. The rays of planets will be 
intensified by the rays of one declared as its friend and counteracted by those of a 
planet declared as its enemy. The permanent relationship among planets is as under:- 


| Planets Friends Planet Naturals Planet | Enemies Planet 


Moon, Mars, Jupiter Mercury Venus, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu 
Sun, Mercury Mars, Jupiter, Rahu, Ketu 
* Venus, Saturn 


Sun, Moon,Jupiter, Ketu Venus, Saturn Mercury, Rahu 
Sun, Venus Mars, Jupiter, Saturn} Moon 


Rahu, Ketu 
Sun, Moon, Mars Saturn, Rahu, Ketu_ | Mercury, Venus 
Mercury, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu} Mars, Jupiter Sun, Moon 
Mercury, Venus, Rahu Jupiter Sun, Moon, Mars, Ketu 
Venus,Saturn Jupiter, Mercury Sun, Moon, Mars, Ketu 
Mars, Venus Mercury, Jupiter Saturn, Rahu, Sun, Moon 


The above relationship is based on the principle that from Mool -Trikona sign of a planet, 
2rd 4th 5th 8" gt and 12" position lords are its friends and the resti.e. 3°, 6", 7", 10°, 
and 11" position lords are its enemies. The exaltation sign's lord of a planet is always its 
friend even if it owns 3", 6", 7", 10", and 11*position from Mool- Trikona sign. 

2. Temporary/ Tatkalik :- This relationship is temporary and depends upon position of 
planets in the Horoscope. This relationship changes with reference to each horoscope. 
The planets in 2™, 3°, 4*, 10, 11 * and 12"houses from a particular planet become its 
temporary friends and those in rest of the houses are temporary enemies. 

3. Panchdha Maitri :- Both types of relationship are considered while examining a 
horoscope and Combined relationship is obtained which is as under: - 

Temporary Friend + Permanent Friend Intimate Friend (Adhi mitra) 


Temporary Friend + PermanentEnemy = _ Neutral 
Temporary Friend + Permanent Neutral = Friend 
Temporary Enemy + Permanent Friend = Neutral 


Temporary Enemy + Permanent Neutral = Enemy 
Temporary Enemy + Permanent Enemy Bitter Enemy (Adhi Shatru) 


24 A Text Book of Astrology 


Example Horoscope 


WONG 
bal 
WEN 


Planets Temporary Friends Temporary Enemies 

Sun Moon, Venus, Ketu, Mercury, Jupiter Mars, Saturn, Rahu 

Moon Ketu, Sun, Mercury, Jupiter Venus, Mars, Saturn, Rahu 

Mars Ketu, Saturn, Rahu Moon, Venus, Sun, Mercury, Jupiter 


Mercury Sun, Moon, Venus, Ketu, Saturn, Rahu _—— Mars, Jupiter 
Jupiter Sun, Moon, Venus, Ketu, Saturn, Rahu Mars, Mercury 


Venus — Sun, Ketu, Jupiter, Mercury Moon, Mars, Saturn, Rahu 
Saturn Mars, Mercury, Jupiter Rahu, Ketu, Moon, Venus, Sun 
Rahu Mars, Mercury, Jupiter Ketu, Moon, Venus, Sun, Saturn 


Ketu Mars, Moon, Venus, Sun, Mercury, Jupiter Saturn, Rahu 


Five Fold Friendship 


Five Fold Friendship chart is prepared on the basis of permanent and temporary 
friendship. The 5 fold friendship chart has 5 situations - best friend, friend, even, enemy 
and bitter enemy. 


When a planet is friendly in permanent friendship as well as in temporary friendship, 
this planet becomes best friend in 5 fold friendship. In permanent friendship if it is 
even and enemy in temporary friendship, It will be enemy in 5 fold friendship. If a planet 
is enemy in permanent friendship as well as in temporary friendship, it becomes bitter 
enemy. 


The 5 fold friendships can be seen in following table : 


A Text Book of Astrology 25 


Natural Friendship Friendship 5-Fold Friendship 
Friend Friend Best Friend 
Friend Neutral Friend 

Friend Enemy Neutral 

Neutral Friend Friend 

Neutral Neutral Neutral 

Enemy Enemy 

Friend : Neutral 

Neutral Enemy 

Enemy Bitter Enemy 


Neutral 
Enemy 
Enemy ~ 


+ + t+ +t + + + + + 


eh Oe ae a ee i ee pe 
a as ee ee 


F- Friend, E- Enemy, N- Neutral, BF- Best Friend, BE- Bitter Enemy 


The five fold friendship chart is used for computing the 7 fold strengths (Saptavargeeya 
Bala) of planets. 


According to five fold friendship a planet in the house of highly friendly planet has 
strength 22°30'. In the house of friend it has 15°, in even planet's house 7°30', in enemy's 
house 3°45' in staunch enemy's house 1 °52', in own house 30°, in mooltrikona 45° 
and in exaltation 60° 


26 A Text Book of Astrology 


Chapter-3 


Characteristics Of Each Sign 
ARIES Op) 


Physical Features: - Middle stature, lean and muscular body, neither 
stout nor thick, long face and neck, broad head, mark or scar on head 
or temples, teeth well set, round eyes, curly hairs. 


General: - 
Auspicious years - 16,20, 28, 34, 41,48, 51 
Inauspicious years - 1,3, 6,8, 15, 21, 36, 40, 45, 56, 63 


Ambitious, pushful and aggressive nature. Stubborn but frank, have practical ideas. 
Loves beauty, art and elegance. Adventurous, fond of argument and debate, never 
hesitates to pick up a quarrel. Fanaticism in religious matters, impatience. Afraid of 
water, fond of travelling, life full of struggle in the beginning. Ability to plan, quick actions, 
executive ability. Gets bored in long-term plan, Marvellous ability to rise to the occasion 
in terms of emergency but no endurance to cope with prolonged hardships. Visionary, 
idealistic, sets up own standards of right and wrong. Dislikes small undertakings and 
prefers to scheme and takes up large and extensive plans. Good nature and charm 
attracts opposite sex. Self-made, sexual, often unsuccessful in love affairs. Love for 
home and family. They always try to be in the midst of family members. 


Keep their house neat and clean. Enjoys high position in government. Liable to suffer 
from headache, burns, high fever, paralysis, pimples, migraine, small pox, and 
neurological problems. Require plenty of rest and sleep and also good food with plenty 
of vegetables. 


TAURUS @ 


Physical features:- 


Middle stature, generally plump body, broad forehead, thick and stout 
neck, beautiful and attractive face, eyes and ears large, broad 
shoulders and well developed muscles, wheatish complexion, white 
teeth, heavy thighs, curly hairs, mole on back or armpit. 


A Text Book of Astrology 27 


General :- 


Loving nature, fond of beauty, music, colour and artistic ways. Fond of ease, love and 
luxury, good food. If not listened to attentively, they act like bull. Physical powers and 
mental endurance is noteworthy. Having good friends. Straight-forward and natural. 
Considers pros and cons before arriving at any conclusion. Amass wealth, applies 
caution in spending. Self reliant, have their own principles and ways. Being highly 
diplomatic, too difficult to be understood. Precise worker, usually good in memory 
which helps to remember even the slightest details. Can carryout any plan cheerfully 
and successfully. Employed in best paid professions, like to trade in luxury goods like 
electronics, cosmetics, perfumes, jewelry etc. They become excellent actors, musicians, 
film producer's etc. May be employed in girls school or ladies club. Lucky, spends 
money in ornaments, gardening, horticulture etc. Practical in material affairs. Always 
beloved of fair sex and generally be gets large member of female children. Divorce is 
rare in married life. Liable to suffer from tonsillitis, diphtheria, pyorrhea, cold, 
constipation. Suffer mental imbalance at least once in life. Suffer mental agony due to 
family problems during the age 8 to 16 and 36 to 47, should be cautious during the 
age of 46 to 51. Should not loose heart during difficult periods. 1,2,8,33,44 and 61 are 
inauspicious years during the life. 


GEMINI 


Physical features: 


Tall and well formed body, height above average, long slender hands, 
moderate complexion, depression near chin, active and clear speech, 
sharp and active eyes, black eyes, long nose, mole on face. 


General: 


Bold with keen understanding of human nature, humane and sympathetic. Remarkable 
for ingenuity, originality and intellectual ability, capable of grasping situations on spur 
of moment. Liable to lose from fraud and deception. Get providential help. Unusual 
power of adaptability. Variable temperament, restlessness, impatience. Gain 
competence in all mental pursuits. Lack in determination, quick decision and 
concentration. Tend to become experts in mechanical sciences. Business like attitude 
and have wealth of information in every matter. Many brilliant conversationists, poets, 
orators, writers, musicians, are born in this sign. Follow two occupations. Can take up 
new assignments and be successful in them. Suffer continuous misfortune in service. 
Gets honour in society. Obstacles and losses through females. They must be cautious 
in moving with opposite sex. Interested in philosophy and religion. Weakness for women 
and adept in winning their affection. Always welcome to any social gathering. Marriage 
is full of interest and excitement for them. Liable to suffer from colds, bronchitis, T.B. 
eosinophilia, influenza. 33 years to 46 years is the golden period of their life. Suffer 
during 47 to 56 of age, unlucky during birth to 6th year of age and from 21 to 32. 


28 A Text Book of Astrology 


CANCER 


Physical Features :- 


Short stature, dwarfs, large upper body, frail constitution in childhood, 
strong in manhood, round face with timid look, pale and dull 
complexion, brown hair, walks with rolling gait, teeth thick and broad, 
broad shoulders, do not walk straight. 


General:- 


Famous for fertile imagination and ability to imitate others with ease. Many famous 
mimics and actors are born under this sign. Receptive to new ideas and adept 
themselves to new environment. Accumulate wealth through hard work. Can take up 
occupation of fluctuating nature. Best suited to commercial career, especially to the 
trade of catering. Good writers, orators, leaders in society, advisors. Short tempered 
and impatient. Changeable and fluctuating making the person moody. Notto be relied 
upon. Very talkative, self reliant, honest and unbending. Have reputation for love of 
justice and fair play. Excellent memory. Famous for their true hospitality. Gain favour of 
intelligent people, independent temperament. Deeply attached to family and children. 
Ideal life partners. Often prey to women. Lead wandering and restless life. Liable to 
suffer from infection of lungs, bronchitis, T.B., dyspepsia, flatulence, nervous debility, 
jaundice etc. Luck favours in profession during the age 21 to 36, financial problems- 
increase in number of enemies during the age of 37 to 52 and excellent period during 
the age of 56-69. 5, 25, 40, 48 and 62 are the inauspicious years in life. 


EO LL 


Full stature with well developed bones and broad shoulders, 
commanding and majestic appearance, oval faced, upper part of the 
body generally well formed, thin waist, blue or yellow eyes. 


Physical features: - 


General :- 


Expressive, forceful, dominant and born to rule. Frank, generous, magnanimous and 
ambitious. Firm will and forgiving spirit. Voracious readers. Fond of pleasure and 
luxury even with limited resources. Capable of inspiring confidence. Jealous of own 
fame and unlikely to fall a victim of flattery. The main characteristics is the habit of 
silence. Journey of eastern direction or working while sitting towards east direction is 


A Text Book of Astrology 29 


very helpful. Self-confidence and self-possession are secrets of their success. 

Endurance and confidence to make through any difficult task. Makes use of every 

opportunity that arises. Interested in drama, poetry and fine arts. Loyalty for either king 
or own family is supreme. Potential speculator or punter. Successful in government 

job, army or police. Gets specialization in one field. Charm, attracts opposite sex, 

ideal lover. Very sexy, fond of non-vegetarian food, fond of wandering in distant places, 
mountain, hills etc, afraid of cold. Likely to suffer from inflammation, sunstroke, epilepsy, 
rheumatic fever, spinal meningitis, heart problem etc. Good period during the age of 

19 to 36, suffers during the age of 37 to 42, health problems - difficulties- litigation 

during the age of 46 to 62. Very fortunate at the age of 21,28 and 35. Accident through 
vehicle or the age of 66. 5, 13, 28 and 48 are the inauspicious years in life. 


VIRGO fiJJ 


Physical features :- 


Medium height, dark hair and eyes, quick active walk, often appears 
younger than age, chest prominent, straight nose, thin and shrill voice, 
curved eyebrows with much of hair growth, mark either on throat or 
thighs. 


General 


Highly intelligent, ingenious and analytical. Too critical of other people's faults and 
feelings. Good linguist and have scientific turn of mind for learning anything and 
everything. Discriminating and emotional to get easily carried away by impulse. 
Nervous, lacking self-confidence, methodical, ability to present an idea in great detail. 
Cautious regarding their own interests, prudent, economical, diplomatic and shrewd. 
Remarkable for house keeping. Mathematician, physician or interest in occult subjects. 


Should guard against digestive troubles. Liable to suffer from dysentery, typhoid, gall 
stone etc. Delay in marriage. Peaceful and pleasant domestic life, have limited number 
of children. Good income, success in profession, owner of property. Fond of being 
administered medicine even for insignificant complaint. Being earthy sign, taken 
pleasure in gardening and agriculture. Fond of accumulating wealth. Adventurous, 
successful in life during age of 20 to 25, Owns house during the age of 25 to 35, 
suffers during the age of 36 to 48 and sudden gains/ fortunate during the age of 49 to 
62. Very fortunate during the age 23 to 24. 4, 16, 22, 36, and 55 are the inauspicious 
years in life. May suffer from T.B. during the last stage of life. 


30 A Text Book of Astrology 


UBRA XL 


Physical features :- 


Tall slender, well proportioned strong body, handsome appearance, 
fine skin, baldness in middle age, eyebrows add to the beauty, nose 
little bent like parrot, gap in teeth, raised forehead. 


General :- 


Gentle, compassionate, courteous and honest. Famous for judgement, weighs pros 
and cons thoroughly before coming to a conclusion. Covets the prosperity of others 
but never fails to help dependents. Upright and sympathetic but flexible and sensitive. 
Anger is soon pacified. Thinks of others more than self. Can argue with clarity and 
foresight. Always for justice, harmony, love and peace at any cost. Being airy sign, 
ardent lover of nature and its beauties. Changes abode to undertake frequent travels. 
Loves high standard of living. Takes interest in their dress, furniture, conveyance, and 
other comforts. Have another name in the name of god/goddess. Expert trader. Usually 
popular, makes a good business partner. Wins goodwill and popularity in public. Make 
good salesman, liaison officers, and receptionists. Lover of art and female society. 
Loved by fortunate females. Liable to suffer from problems in kidneys, pain in spines 
and infectious diseases. Females may have problem in uterus. Make good progress 
during the age of 18 to 27, earn wealth during the age of 28 to 42. 8, 15, 35, 62 and 64 
are inauspicious years in life. 


SCORPIO hh 


Physical features :- 


Middle stature, well proportioned body and limbs, broad face, curly 
hair, dark complexion, prominent chin 


General :- 


Frank, fearless and brusque. Fertile mind, intelligent, will power. Words are well chosen. 
Do not interfere in others' matters. Notorious for many outstanding characteristics. It is 
a sign of dictators, energy inexhaustible. Can never display a superficial knowledge 
till he thinks he is thorough. Enormous confidence in executive ability. Good 
conversationists as well as writers and rely too much on their own intelligence. 
Reputation for secret crimes. Earn wealth through hard work and courage, self-made. 
Take part in public movements, advisor/leader in society, successful in defence or 


A Text Book of Astrology 31 


police service, have number of enemies. Makes excellent research worker on original 
and novel lines. Can do better if left alone to work. Fond of outdoor sports. Can become 
proficient in music, art, dance, etc. Immense ability for occultism. Immense appetite 
for sex and treat partner like a beast. Liable to suffer from diseases of generative 
organs, prostate glands, bladder etc. Fortunate during the age of 29 to 45, suffer from 
chronic diseases or undergoes operation during the age of 62 to 71. 11,28,38,52,62 
are the inauspicious years of life. 


SAGITTARIUS 3 


Physical features :- 


Well developed and handsome figure, almond eyes, brown hair, high 
and bushy eyebrows, long face, long nose, graceful look, not a straight 
walk, thick nose/ ears/teeth/ lips. 


General :- 


Free, generous, honest, reliable, god-fearing. Alert, intuitive and burrows to the point 
easily. Short sighted or hunchbacked. Straight forward in dealings and has high sense 
of justice. Too conventional and business like. Sometimes restless and overanxious. 
Dual temperament. Versatile, desirous to know something of everything. Disposition 
is happy and cheerful. Adaptable, content with simple life. Lover of art and poetry, has 
creative ability. Respecter of law, rarely gets involved in legal affairs. Desire for learning 
philosophy and occult subjects. Exercises strict control over food, drinks and relation 
with opposite sex. Neatness, orderliness, being methodical, and diligence contribute 
towards success. Has self-confidence. Never leaves off the work on hand unfinished. 
Gets favour from govt, inherits property. Liable to suffer from sciatica, rheumatic pain, 
hipbone fracture, gout, lung problems etc. Successful as a teacher, public speaker, 
heads of religious institution, judge, advocate etc. Satisfactory financial position during. 
the age of 18to 37, domestic problems during the age of 38 to 47, all round prosperity 
during the age of 61 to 69. 2, 10, 18, 31, 38, and 42 are the inauspicious years of life. 


CAPRICORN  tyj 


Physical features :- 


Weak slender body and constitution improving with age, large teeth, 
big mouth, prominent nose, dark coarse hair, thin and oval face, hunch 
- backed, scar or mole on the knee cap, jaws similar to that of 
crocodile, short forehead, long teeth, beard with less hair. 


32 A Text Book of Astrology 


General :- 


Prudence, thoughtfulness, reasoning, love of power. Self-reliant and highly intellectual. 
Not optimistic in any matter till succeeds. Works on facts and statistics and makes 
use of them in worldly affairs. Honest, sincere and economic. While cannot be 
intimidated by force, he melts like wax in warmth of friendship and goodness. Special 
organizing ability. Even in adverse circumstances rarely asks for help. Impediment in 
speech. Fit for public work and position of prominence. Best suited for jobs in finance 
department or in technical field. Cannot cultivate friendship easily with strangers but is 
social with earlier friends. Not fit for romance but provides all comforts to family and 
loved ones. Protects family like a hen. Very slow and cautious in dealing with opposite 
sex, has sexual relations with females older than himself. Likely to suffer from injury 
nearthe knee cap, skin disease, bruises, dislocation of bones, urticaria, rheumatism 
etc. Fear of injury from fire, arms or iron during childhood. Enjoys life during age of 33 
to 49, suffers bodily at the age of 50-51. 5, 13, 27, 36, 57, 62 and 67 are the inauspicious 
years of life. 


AQUARIUS 


Physical features : Middle stature, well built and strong, round and 
handsome face, cheeks broad, prominent temples and buttocks, fair 
complexion, brown shade hair, defective teeth, mole or scar in the calf 
muscle, body full of hair, hands and feet thick, prominent veins. 


General :- 


Humanitarian, healthy outlook on life and its problems. Interested in all progressive 
things. Reserved, weighs everything before executes or watches and waits till others 
execute. Caution, patience, concentration, studiousness never leave him. Their 
conversation is always interesting. Straightforward temperament, admired by all. Kind, 
fond of learning and inspires noble thoughts. Love of nature, kind disposition. Consistent 
in friendship, strong in likes and dislikes. Love for solitude. They develop intuition and 
inspiration. Interested in deep meditation and concentration. Retentive memory, 
research on scientific lines. Works for common and downtrodden. Earn money through 
modern machineries, investments and discoveries, interested in technical education. 
Fondness for home. Preferences for equally intelligent and educated partner 
irrespective of age. Home well furnished having collection of antiques managed in 
modern fashion. Do not give expression to their love. If lovers are passionate, they will 
not be satisfied as aquarian may appear to be cold. Liable to suffer from infectious 
disease, tooth problems, tonsils etc. Prosperity during the age of 22 to 40, chances of 
injury by arms, iron or wood during the age of 41 to 43, fortunate during the age of 44 
to 67, suffers after the age of 68, 28, 33, 48, and 64 are the inauspicious years of life. 


A Text Book of Astrology 33 


PISCES 3 


Physical features : Short, full and plumpy figure with considerably small 
hand and feet, soft and silky hair, fair complexion, sparkling face, 
attractive and handsome, eyes big and protruding, shoulders muscular 
and spherical , dimple chin. 


General: 


Not an impressive figure. Restless, imaginative and romantic Upright, honest and 
humane. Changeable temper, swayed by opinion of others. Lacks self-confidence. 
Extremely sympathetic, forgiving, generous, honest and reliable. Understands own 
abilities and this quality stands as an impediment in progress. Orthodox, extremely 
superstitious, reserved, god fearing, rigid in observation of religious customs and 
practices. Cannot see sufferings even in animals and renders assistance. Lacks 
ambition and finds difficult to make speedy progress in material zone. Two occupations, 
adept in any new branch he pursues. Make good employee. Proves successful in 
transactions dealing with liquids and spirits. They gain in export- import business. 
Liable to suffer from gastric troubles and injury in ankles and feet. 


Happy married and domestic life. Prefers beauty of partner, intellectual pursuits and fine 
arts. Often two marriages, influenced by partner. Prosperity during the age of 27 to 43, 
suffers during the age of 44 to 60, fortunate during the age of 61 to 69. 8, 13, 36, and 48 
are the inauspicious years of life. 


Grouping of Signs 


The 12 signs are grouped as under :- 
Masculine or Odd Signs Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, Aquarius, 
Feminine or Even Signs Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, Pisces. 


Movable Signs Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn 
Fixed Signs Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius 
Dual orcommon Signs Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces 
Fiery Signs Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 

Earthy Signs Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn 

Airy Signs Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 

Watery Signs Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 


Signs of Long Ascension Cancer,Leo,Virgo,Libra, Sagittarius 
Signs of Short Ascension Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces 


34 A Text Book of Astrology 


Sirshodaya Signs Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Aquarius (Rising by head) 

Prishtodaya Signs Aries, Taurus,Cancer, Sagittarius, (Rising from hind parts) 
Capricorn 

Ubhayodaya Signs Gemini, Pisces (Rising both ways) 

Quadruped Signs Aries, Taurus, Leo, 2nd half of 


(Four legged chatuspad) Sagittarius, 1* half of Capricorn 


Human Signs Gemini, Virgo, Libra, 1* half of Sagittarius, Aquarius 
Reptile Signs Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces, 2nd half of (Keeta) Capricorn 
Northern Signs Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo 

Southern Signs Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces 


Equinoctial Signs 


Fruitful Signs 
Barren Signs 


Moderate Signs 
Brahmin Varma Signs 


Kshtriya Varna 


Signs 


Vaishya Varna Signs 


Shoodra Varna 


The whole zodiac consisting of twelve signs represent Kalapurusha. 
The twelve signs depict the following body parts of Kalapurusha:- 


A Text Book of 


Signs 


Sign Body Part 

Aries Head 

Taurus Face and Throat 

Gemini Neck and arms shoulders, chest 
Cancer Heart 

Leo Stomach upper abdomen 

Virgo Stomach lower abdomen & intestines 
Libra Private Parts / External genitalia 
Scorpio Waist and hips 

Sagittarius Thighs 

Capricorn Knees 

Aquarius Ankles 

Pisces Feet 


Astrology 


Aries, Libra 


Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Pisces 


Aries, Gemini, Leo, Virgo 
Libra, Capricorn, Aquarius 
Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 
Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 
Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn 
Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 


35 


Chapter-4 


Houses : Their Significations 
& Signif icators 


Earth is moving on its axis from West to East. If we see towards horizon, we find that 
signs of Zodiac rise one by one. Any particular sign of the Zodiac will reappear at the 
east horizon after approximately 24 hours. Ascendant is the sign of zodiac which is 
rising in the eastern horizon at the time of, occurrence of an event. The Ascendant is 
also known as first house of the horoscope. 

Second house means the second counted from first and so on. 

Each house of the horoscope signifies certain aspects of life which are as under- 
First House : 

Body, appearance, personality, face, health, character, temperament, intellect, longevity, 
fortune, honour, dignity, prosperity. 

Second House : 

Wealth, family, speech, right eye, nail, tongue, nose, teeth, ambition, food, imagination, 
power of observation, jewelry, precious stones, unnatural sex, loss by cheating and 
violence between life partners. 

Third House : 

Younger brothers and sisters, cousins, relatives, neighbors, courage, firmness, valour, 
chest, right ear, hands, short journeys, nervous system, communication, writing — editing 
books, reporting to newspapers, education, intellect. 

Fourth House : 

Mother, conveyance, relatives, domestic environment, treasure, land, house, education, 
landed property, hereditary tendencies, later portion of life, hidden treasure, private 
love affairs, chest, interference in married life by parents-in laws and family, ornaments, 
clothes. 

Fifth House : 

Progeny, intelligence, fame, position, stomach, love affairs, pleasures, and 
amusements,’ speculation, past birth, soul, position in life, artistic talent, heart and 
back, proficiency in games, success in competition. 

Sixth House : 

Disease, debt, disputes, miseries, injuries, maternal aunt or uncle, enemies, service, 
food, clothes, theft, ill fame, pet animals, subordinates, tenants, waist. 


36 A Text Book of Astrology 


Houses 


Panapara, Kendra& Apoklima & 
Marak Trikona_ Trik 


Upachaya | Panphar & 
& Apoklima Upachaya 


Kendra & 
Kendra Uparhaves 
Trikona & 


Panphar Trikona & 


Apoklima 


Apoklima Kendra & 
Upachaya & Trik Marak 


a 


Profession 


Seventh House : 


Spouse, personality of spouse, relations between life partners, desires, partnership, 
open enemies, recovery, journey, litigation, danger to life, influence in foreign countries 
and fame, relations between self and public, sexual or urinary disease. 

Eighth House : 


Longevity, kind of death, sexual organs, obstacles, accident, unearned wealth, 

inheritance, legacy, will, insurance, pension and gratuity, theft, robbery, worries, delay, 
battles, enemies, inheritance of money, mental affliction, extramarital life. 

Ninth House : 

Fortune, religion, character, grand parents, long journeys, grandson, devotion towards 
elders and god, spiritual initiation, dreams, higher education, wife's younger brother, 

brother's wife, visit to holy places, philosophy, communication with spirits. 


A Text Book of Astrology 37 


Tenth House : 

Profession, fame, power, position, authority, honour, success, status, knees, character, 
karmas, ambition in life, father, employers and superiors, relationship between self 
and superiors, success in business, promotion, recognition from government. 
Eleventh House : 

Gains, prosperity, fulfillment of desires, friends, elder brother, ankles, left ear, advisers, 
favorites, recovery of illness, expectation, son's wife, wishes, success in undertakings. 
Twelfth House : 

Harm, punishment, confinement, expenditure, donations (given), marriage, work related 
to water resorts, vedic sacrifice, fines paid, sexual enjoyment outside wedlock, 
contacting sexually transmitted disease, weakness in sexual act, sleeping comforts, 
enjoying luxuries, loss of spouse, losses in marriage, termination of employment, 
separation from own people, long journeys, settlement in foreign land. 


Significators of Houses 
The significators or karakas of various houses are as under:- 


4st House Sun 

ond i Jupiter 

3rd . Mars, Mercury 
4th 53 Moon, Venus 
5t : Jupiter 

6 : Mars, Saturn 
7in i Venus 

git : Saturn 

gin * Sun, Jupiter 
40% “ Mercury, Sun, Jupiter and Saturn 
11* « Jupiter 

42th i Saturn 


Significations of Planets 


Sun - Father, influence, energy 

Moon - Mother, mind 

Mars - Brothers, courage 

Mercury - Profession, speech, education, 

Jupiter - Progeny, wealth, prosperity wisdom 
Venus - Marriage, material comforts, pleasures 
Saturn - Longevity, sorrows, delays 

Rahu - Maternal relations 

Ketu - Paternal relations 


38 A Text Book of Astrology 


Favourable Planets for each Ascendant 


Ascendant Planets Favourable Planets Unfavourable Planets 


Aries Jupiter,Sun 
Taurus Saturn 
Gemini Venus 
Cancer Jupiter, Mars 


Leo Mars 


Virgo Venus 
Libra Saturn 
Scorpio Jupiter 
Sagittarius Mars 

Capricorn Venus 
Aquarius Venus 
Pisces Mars, Moon 


Grouping of Houses 


Angles or Kendra Houses 

Trines or Trikona Houses 
Succedent or Panapara Houses 
Cadent or Apoklima Houses 
Upachaya or Favourable Houses 
Evil orTrik Houses 

Death inflicting or Marak Houses 


Mercury, Venus 
Jupiter, Venus, Moon 
Mars, Jupiter, Sun 
Venus, Mercury 
Saturn, Venus 
Mars 

Jupiter, Sun, Mars 
Mercury, Venus 
Venus 

Mars, Jupiter 
Jupiter, Moon 

Sun, Venus, Saturn 


a 1°.4" 7" and 10" 
> 1° 5% and 9" 

> 2nd 5h sth and 11" 
: 37 6th, gt and 12" 

: 3 6h 10", and 11" 
: 6", 8 and 12" 

: 2 and 7" 


The twelve houses are known an Tanu (Physique), Dhana (Wealth), Sahaja (Younger 
brother/ Sister), Matru (Mother), Putra (Progeny), Ari (Enemies), Kalatra (Spouse), 
Ayur (Longevity), Dharma (Religion), Karma (Livelihood), Labha (Gains) and Vyay 
(Losses) 


In terns of native's life, the Kendras denote childhood, the panaparas denote middle 
age and A poklimas denote old age. The 1° to 8" house relate to one's marital life, 
the 9" to 11" pertain to religious or moral beliefs and 12" house deals with other world 
i.e. Moksha. 


oO 


A Text Book of Astrology 39 


Chapter-5 
Casting of Horoscope 


The basic information required for casting horoscope of an event is - (1) Place (Il) 
Time and (Ill) Date. 


1. Place: 


With place we mean location of place on earth. The location of place is known by 
coordinates Latitude and Longitude. Latitude of a place is a measure of angular 
distance from equator. All lines parallel to equator are known as lines of Latitude. 


90°N N 


66%2°N 


Tropic of Cancer 
Tropic of Capricorn 
NE 


66%°S 


23%2°N 


23%°S 


90°S Ss 

Lines of Latitude Lines of Longitude 
The Latitude of a place may vary from 90° N to 90°S. 
Lines joining North Pole and South Pole are known as lines of longitude or meridians: 
-All meridians are of equal length. Meridian which passes through Greenwich (U.K.) 
where British Royal observatory is situated is taken as a reference point or starting 
point for numbering of meridians and is known as Prime Meridian or 0° Longitude. 
The Longitude of a place may vary from 180° E to 180° W. 


2. Time : 


Earth rotates on its own axis from West to East. Therefore places east of Greenwich 
will be ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) and those to west will be behind it. A 
solar day or synodic day is the interval between two successive transits of sun across 
the meridian of place. On the other hand a sidereal day is the interval between two 
successive transits of the first point of Aries across the meridian. 


Solar day or Synodic day - 24 hours, Sidereal day- 23 hours 56 minuets 4 seconds 


Earth completes one rotation on its axis once in 24 hours, i.e. it moves 15° in one hour 
or 1° in 4 minuets. Therefore with every change of 1 ° in meridian there will be a change 
of 4 minuets in time. Therefore if there is 12 noon at Greenwich, the time at 15°E of 
Greenwich will be 1 P.M. 


40 A Text Book of Astrology 


In India, the standard time was introduced on 1.1.1906 and the meridian chosen is 
one of longitude 82°30'E of GMT. The standard time is adopted in all countries. 


For Casting of horoscope, local mean time of the place is needed. When Sun is 
crossing (LMT) the meridian of a place, it is 12 0' clock or midday according to the 
local time. Iflongitude of a place and GMT is known, LMT of that place can be known 
by the following formula 


LMT = GMT Longitude 
15 

4+ If place is East of Greenwich 

- If place is West of Greenwich 
Ex: - Find out LMT of a place at 78°W longitude when it is 12 noon at Greenwich. 
Ans.:- LMT = 12-78/15 = 12-—5hr. 12 minutes 

= 6 hours 48 minutes. 

In Hindu system day starts from sunrise and continues till next sunrise. This is different 
from English day which is from midnight to next midnight. The Hindu day consist of 


Ahas - duration of day i.e. sunrise to sunset and Ratti - duration of night i.e. sunset to 
sunrise. On equator Ahas and Ratri are equal. 


<———_ ___ English Day 


——— _ HinduDay — 


If we look towards the rising sun - from the time disc of sun comes out of horizon and 
the time when full disc of sun comes out, there is a difference of about 2 to 3 minutes. 
For all astrological purposes time of sunrise is taken when half disc of sun comes out 
of horizon. 


In Hindu astrology time of event is indicated as Isht kal or Suryodistam or Mandloydistam 
which is time elapsed after sunrise. This Ishtkal in horoscope is generally indicated in 
terms of Ghati, Pal and Vipal. The relation between Ghati, Pal and Vipal vis - a - vis 
Hours, Minutes and Seconds is an under:- 


1 Hour - 2.5 Ghati 

1 Minute - 25 Pal 

1 Second - 2.5 Vipal. 
If Isht kal and time of sunrise is known the same can be converted into IST or vice - 
versa. The calculation will be clear from the following examples :- 


A Text Book of Astrology 41 


Ex.1: Sunrise is at 0700 hrs (IST). Find Isht kal when IST is 1405 hrs. 
Ans.:- Time elapsed after sunrise 1405-0700 = 7 hrs 5 Mts. 
7hrs =7 x 2.5 Ghati = 17.5 Ghati = 17 Ghati 30 pal 
5 Mts. =5 x 2.5 Pal= 12.5 Pal = 12 Pal 30 Vipal 
.. IshtKal = 17 Ghati 42 Pal and 30 Vipal 
Ex. 2: Sunrise is at 0617 hrs (IST). Isht kal given is 33 Ghati 23 Pal and 13 Vipal. 
Find out time (IST) 
Ans.:-33 Ghati = 33/2.5hrs = 13.2hrs =13hrs 12 Mts. 

23 Pal = 23/2.5 Mts. = 9.2 Mts. =9 Mts. 12 Second 

13 Vipal =13/2.5 Seconds =5.2 Seconds 
.. 83 Ghati 23 Pal 13 Vipal = 13 hrs 21 Mts. 17.2 Seconds 
.. IST = Sunrise + time elapsed 06.17 + 13-21-17.2 

= 19hrs 38 Mts. 17.2 Seconds. ..... Ans. 


Date : (Gregorian Calendar) 


Distance of planets west to east are measured from a certain point in celestial path 
called vernal equinox or first point of Aries. In Hindu astrology this point is considered 
as stationary or fixed. However due to precession of earth, this point is not fixed. It has 
slow retrograde motion of 50'.26” each year. This completes a revolution in 25785 
years 10 months and 28.68 days. Western astrologers do not take into account the 
precession of equinoxes for finding longitudes. Therefore longitude of planets according 
to the two systems show difference of about 23°. The Longitude of planets according 
to the two system coincided in about the year 268 AD. This precession of equinoxes 
is known as Ayanamsa. The system based on fixed and moving zodiacs are known as 
Nirayana and Sayana respectively. 


Sayana longitude = Nirayana longitude + Ayanamsa 

Apart from english calendar, following calendars are in vogue in Indian system. 
1. Solar Calendar 

Based on fixed Zodiac system - known as Vikrami Calendar 

- Based on Moving zodiac system - known as shaka calendar 

2. Lunar Calendar 

1. Solar Calendar: 


Solar Calendar are based on this movement of sun in the zodiac. Whenever sun enters 
0°of zodiac, solar year starts exactly on the same day and time. Sun moves in the 
zodiac approximately 1 degree each day and therefore sun changes sign and zodiac 
after 30 or 31 days. As there are 12 signs in zodiac, there are 12 months in a year. 
Entry of sun in new sign every months is celebrated as Sankranti and therefore there 


42 A Text Book of Astrology 


are 12 Sankrantis in a year. Month has 30 days when sun moves faster and 31 days 
when sun moves slower. 


Vikrami year 2057 started on 13th April 2000 and Shaka year 1922 started on 22na 
March 2000. The names of different months are Baishakh, Jyeshta, Ashada, Shravana, 
Bhadrapada, Aswin, Kartik, Maghar, Poush, Magh, Phalgun and Chaitra. The first 
month of Vikrami year is Baishakh whereas Shaka year starts with the month Chaitra. 


2. Lunar Calendar: 


Lunar Calendar is based on relative movement of Sun and Moon in the zodiac. Sun 
and Moon move in the zodiac at 1 °and 13° (Approx.) per day. Moon reaches the same 
point of zodiac again after 27.32 earth days. By the time Sun moves ahead by approx. 
28° in the zodiac and to be with Sun, Moon has to further travel for a little more than 2 
earth days. Therefore Lunar month is of 29.5306 earth days and consists of full bright 
moon to another full bright moon day. Lunar month consists of two parts - (1) 1st half 
from full bright moon day to full dark moon day (known as Krishna Paksha) and (2) 2nd 
half from full dark moon day to full bright moon day (known as Shukla Paksha ). The 
day of full bright moon is known as Poornamasi (i.e. distance between Sun and Moon 
is 180°) and the day of full dark moon is known as Amavasya (i.e. distance between 
sun and moon is 0°). Lunar date or moon date is known as Tithi. First and second half 
of lunar month has 15 Tithi each and therefore lunar month has 30 Tithi. Lunar month 
starts when Moon is exactly 180° away from Sun and this may fall at any moment in 24 
hours. Unlike Indian day of solar calendars, Moon date does not start at sunrise but 
may start at any time when longitude distance between Sun and Moon changes exactly 
by 12°. Names of lunar month are same as those of months of Vikrami year. Months 
have been named on the name of Nakshatras. This name of Nakshatra has a special 
significance because lunar month start with same Nakshatra The starting of various 
lunar months may be with the following Nakshatras:- 


Name of Month | Starting Nakshatra 


Baishakh Visakha, or Anuradha 

Jyeshta Jyeshta or Moola 

Ashada Poorva Ashada 

Shravana Shravana or Dhanishta 
Bhadrapada Shatabhisha or Poorva Bhadrapada 


Ashwin Revati or Aswini or Bharani 
Kartik Kritika or Rohini 
Marghshirsh Mrigshira or Ardra 

Paush Punarvasu or Pusya 

Magh Aslesha or Magha 

Phalgun Poorva Phalguni or Hasta 
Chaitra Chitra or Swati 


A Text Book of Astrology 43 


Solar year is of 365 days 15 Ghati 22 Pal and 54 Vipal where as Lunar year is of 354 
days 22 Ghati 1 Pal and 25 Vipal. Therefore there is a difference of 10 days 53 Ghati 
21 Pal and 29 Vipal in Solar and Lunar year. Therefore after 32 % months the difference 
will become one lunar month. Since all Indian festivals are related to lunar year, each 
festival will fall 11 days earlier every year. Therefore to adjust lunar year with solar year, 
after every 2 or 3 years, one lunar month is added into lunar calendar and then this 
particular year will have 13 lunar months. This makes every festival to fall in the same 
season. This extra month is known as ADHIKMASA. Since 1947, ADHIK MASA has 
occurred in the following months and years - 

July 47, June 50, April 53, August 55, July 58, May 61, September 63, July 66, June 
69, April 72, August 74, July 77, May 80, October 82, July 85, May 88, April 91, August 
93, June 96, May 99. 

The basic principle is that the lunar month in which Sun does not make a transit is 
considered as ADHIKMAS. Sun remains in the same sign throughout such a month. 
Last ADHIKMAS was from 16" May 99 to 13"" June 99. Sun entered Taurus sign on 
May 15 at 8 hrs 05 minutes and remained in this sign till 14 hrs 38 minutes on June 15. 
Since distance between Sun and Earth is more during April - October, Sun's apparent 
speed during this period is slower than average, hence it takes longer time to cover 
one sign. Therefore ADHIKMASA can fall only during April -October. 


In contrast to ADHIKMASA, there is another rare phenomenon known as 

MASAKSHAYA in which lunar year has only 11 months. In such a situation there are 

two solar transits in the same lunar month. This phenomenon can occur subject to 

referred to. Thus we are in a position to calculate corrected sidereal time. 

following three conditions - 

(a) Earth should be nearest to Sun in its orbit so that apparent speed of Sun is large 
and it makes its successive transits faster. 

(b) Although the average lunar month is 29.53 days, the actual duration varies from 
month to month. It helps if lunar month has a longer duration than average. 

(c) One transit of Sun should occur soon after the beginning of new lunar month and 
Sun's next transit should occur just before beginning of month. 

It has been found that this rare phenomenon can occur after 19 years or 141 years. 

Maskshaya occurred in 1882 - 83 AD, 1963-64 AD and in 1982 - 83 AD 


Representation of Data: 


Longitude of ascendant and planet s are represented in the various formats in different 
part of our country and in western countries. In each formats there are 12 parts which 
represent 12signs and 12 Houses. The different styles are as under:- 


44 A Text Book of Astrology 


1. North - Indian style: 


In this style houses are fixed and depending upon sign of Ascendant all houses are 
serially numbered anticlockwise. 


wes 


LE 
yes 


2. South Indian Style : 


In this style signs are fixed as indicated but no numbering is done. The sign of ascendant 
is indicated by putting arrow sign or writing ‘ascendant’ in that particular sign and then 
all houses are counted form this sign serially clockwise. 


— nae 
Aquarius Cancer 


Capricorn re 


A Text Book of Astrology 45 


3. East Indian Style: 


Pisces 
Taurus 11th 
9th 
a Ari 
Gemini nee Aquarius 12th 10th 8th 
Cancer ist 
ae : 2nd 4th 6th 
Libra %,. 3rd Si 
: % 
/ Virgo Scorpio® 
Bengali Oriya 


This is exactly as per south Indian style i.e. signs are fixed. In the format used in Bengal, 
number of Nakshtra is also indicated alongwith planets. If number of Nakshtra is 
removed, then it becomes the formats used in Bihar or Mithila. In Orissa also same 
format is used excepts that Nakshtra is indicated only alongwith Moon. 


meme PI 
Ny 


In the Western System, circular format is used houses are fixed signs/planets are 
indicated by their respective symbols anticlockwise. 


46 A Text Book of Astrology 


Chapter-6 
Calculation of 
Ascendant & 12 Houses 


Three things are required to erect a horoscope. These are time of birth, date of birth 
and place of birth. First of all we have to calculate ascendant to cast a horoscope. 


Ascendant 
The sign which rises in the eastern horizon at the time of birth or epoch is called 
ascendant. 


Sidereal Time 
We need sidereal time to calculate lagna. 


Earth completes one rotation on its axis in 24 hours. Sidereal time is the time scale 
that is based on the Earth's rate of rotation measured relative to the fixed stars. 


Method to calculate lagna 
Example-1 
Calculate lagna and tenth house for the native born on 12th June 1987 at 3.55 PM in 
Calcutta. 


Answer- First of all calculate sidereal time of birth with the help of Table one. 


Sidereal time for 12th June 2001 = 17" 207 398 
Correction for 1987 (Table-2) = () 02" _24* 
Sidereal time at noon on 12 June 1987 = 17" 187 15° 
Correction for Calcutta = (-) 04 
SR a | oi weer 0) 


Now we will change the birth time which is 3.55 PM into Local time. Longitude of 
Calcutta is 88° 30' and longitude of standard meridian of India is 82° 30'. Thus difference 
between standard meridian and meridian of Calcutta is 5° and 50'. As earth rotates 
one degree in 4 minutes so we will multiply it with 4. The result will be 23 minutes 30 
seconds. As the meridian of Calcutta is ahead of standard meridian of India this will 
be + 23° and 30 minutes. 


IST of birth = 15> 55™ 00° 
LMT correction = 400° 23" 20° 
LMT at birth = 16° 18™ 20° 


A Text Book of Astrology 47 


Refer table 4 for sidereal time correction. 
Sidereal Time correction for 16 hrs = + 02" 38s 
Sidereal Time correction for 18 min. - + 00" 03s 
= 16" 217 O1s... (ii) 
Add equation (i) and (ii) as the birth time is after 12 in the night. 


Value of Equation (i) = 17" 187 d1s....: (i) 

Value of Equation (i) = +16° 21" Ois..... (ii) 
= 433" 397 12s 

Sidereal time of the epoch(after - 24 hrs) = 09° 397 12s 


Now calculate janma lagna and tenth house for the sidereal time 09h 39m and 12s. 
See the table of ascendant in the future panchang on the latitude of Calcutta at 22 ° 35". 


Lagna for 09h 40m = 6s 25° 49! 
Lagna for 09h 30m 6s 23° = 37’ 
Lagna moved in 10 minutes — 2 12 
Lagna moved in 600 second = 132 
Difference of lagna for 9 minutes 12s=552s = 132! x 552" 
600" 

= 121'26"= 2° 1' 26” 

Lagna on 09h 30m = 6s 23° 37' 00" 


9m 12s = 552 second for lagna moved 


+ 2° Q1' 26" 
6s 25° 38' 26" 
Ayanansh correction for 1987 see Table-5 = + O° 19' 00" 
Lagna = 6s 25° 57' 26" 


48 A Text Book of Astrology 


Ascendant calculation for the native born in foreign country 


Summer Time Correction 


In astrology Place of birth is equally important as date and time of birth for the calculation 
of ascendant. Ifit is day in India, it is night in America. So the effect of Sun is reversed. 
Similarly the effect of other planets also change. 


Longitude and Time 


Sun is the best time-keeper throughout the world. Sun regularly rises and sets every 

day. Local time can be measured by the shadow cast by the sun. All the places on a 

meridian have midday at the same moment. As the earth rotates from West to East, 

East of Greenwich are ahead of Greenwich time and those in the West behind it. 

Since the earth rotates 360 degrees in 24 hours, every 4 minute there is a difference of 
1 degree. 


Some countries have a great longitudinal extent and so they adopt more than one 
standard time. For example USA has as many as 5 standard times. The earth has 
been divided into 24 time zones of one hour each. A few countries like India adopt a 
time zone in between the two, like 5% hour zone. 


Time Correction 


In countries with high latitudes, day duration changes drastically from say 6 hours in 
winters to 18 hours in summers. At poles this difference becomes so large that there is 
day for six months and night for six months. 


In Northern latitude May, June are longer, whereas in Southern latitude December 
January are longer and they have summer at this time. In summer the sun rises very 
early. To take the advantage of sun light, the clocks are advanced by one hour during 
summer for about six months and it is set back to original position during winter. This 
advanced time is called "summer time" or "day light saving time". At some places the 
correction is done for 2 hours and it is called as "double summer time". Similarly 
sometimes it is only half an hour correction. Since this adjustment is only to save light, 
it is subtracted before we do any astronomical calculation. 


Summary 


For astrological purposes we need date, time and place of birth. City of birth is normally 
sufficient as place of birth. Along with this one should know the standard time zone and 
the day light saving time correction to know exactly and correct the time of birth. Time 
correction for different countries is mentioned in detail in the table of ascendant. 


A Text Book of Astrology 49 


Ascendant calculation for the native born in southern 
hemisphere 


Although the table of ascendants given in the book only relate to places in the northern 
hemisphere. They may also be used for obtaining the ascendant for places in the 
northern hemisphere by special contrivance. The table for a particular degree of northern 
latitude may be used to find the ascendant for a place having the same degree of 
southern latitude by the following rule. 


Rule : As usual first find the sidereal time for the given hour of the day. Add, to it 12 
hours. Then with this sidereal time find the Ascendant from the table, and as usual 
apply to it the Ayanamsa correction. Now add to it + 6 signs (i.e. 180 degrees), and 
the result Will be the required ascendant forthe given place and time. 


The Tenth House may also be obtained by the above rule. Or it may be obtained by 
using the ordinary sidereal time in the usual way (i.e. without adding + 12h and + 6 
signs) as the results obtained in both the cases are the same as far as the tenth house 
is concerned. 


N.B. Addition of + 12h means that 12h may either be added or subtracted as is 
convenient, the result in both the cases being the same. Similar is the case in the 
addition of +6 signs also. It should be borne in mind that both 24 h and 12 signs 
complete the circle, and hence 24h and 12 signs should be deducted from the 
corresponding figures whenever they exceed the circle. 


Tenth house calculation 


Tenth house is the point of intersection of the ecliptic of the given time with the meridian 
of the place is the tenth house for that moment. It is also termed as mid heaven or 
Medium coeli (MC) and it sometimes called simply meridian. The longitude of this 
point is as usual measured along sometimes called first point of Aries. The Right 
Ascension of the MC is the sidereal time of the moment. 


Calculation of tenth house and extent of house 


To calculate tenth house refer the table of tenth house calculation for the sidereal time 
09h 39m 12sin future panchang. This table is given at the end of table of ascendants. 


Longitude of 10th house at 09h 40m = 35 29° 22! 


Longitude of 10th house at 09h 30m = 35 26° 49! 

= 2° 33' 
Difference inten minutes = 9° 33' 
Difference in 600 seconds = 153' 


50 A Text Book of Astrology 


Longitude of tenth house 
at9m 12s =552s 


Difference of Tenth house = 153' x 552" 
600" 
= 140'45" =2° 20' 45" 
Longitude of tenth house at 09h 30m = 3s 26° 49' 00" 
Difference for 8m 07s = 487 s =-_@) 2 20) 45" 


= 3s 29° O9' 46" 
Aynamsha correction for year 1987 


See Table-5 = _(+ o°._19' _QO" 
Lontitude of tenth house = 3s 29° 28' 45" 
Midpoint of first house = 6s 25° 57' 26" 
Midpoint of tenth house = 3s 29° 28' 45" 
(Mid point of first house) - (mid_point of tenth house) 
6 
6s 25° 57' 26" - 3s 29° 28'45°  _ 2s 26° 28' 41" 
6 6 
_ 86° 28'41" _ 14°24'46"50" is the Shastiamsa 
6 


Note- from tenth house to lagna there are mid points of three houses and starting 
point of three houses. That is why it is divided by 6. 


The resultant shashtyamsha when added to the midpoint of tenth house continuously 
gives mid points and starting points for other houses. 


A Text Book of Astrology 51 


Mid point of tenth house = 3° 29° 28' 45" 00" 


Shasthymsa between tenth and first house (4) 14° 24" 46" 50" 
Tenth and eleventh house transition point 4 13° 53’ 31" 50" 


(+) 14° 24 46" 50" 

Eleventh house mid point = 4° 28° 18' 18" 40" 
(2) 14° 24". 46" 50" 

Be 12° «43'° 05" 36" 

(4) 14° 24° 46" 50" 


11" and 12" house transition period 


Twelfth house mid point = B27? 07" 52" 20" 
(4) 14° 24 46" 50" 
12" house and 1*house transition point = 6° 11° 32' 39" 10" 
(+) 14° 24' 46" 50" 
Mid point of first house. = 6° 25° 57' 26" OO" 


Now add six signs to the mid points and starting points got for different houses. This 
will give midpoint and starting point for opposite houses. 


For Example 

Mid point for tenth house = 3° 29° 28' 45" OO" 
a 

Midpoint of fourth house = ge _ 29° 28' —45"__00" 

Transition point for 10th and 11 th houses = 46 13° =53' 31" 50" 
(4) & 

Transition point for 4th and 5th houses 7 10° 13° 53°31" 5a" 

Midpoint of 11th house = 4° 28° 18° 18" 40" 
(6 

Midpoint of 5th house = 10° 28° =18' 18" 40" 

Transition point of 11 th and 12 house = 5 12° 4a 05" 30" 
) 6 

Transition point of 5th and 6th house = Tie. 12°48" 05" 30" 


52 A Text Book of Astrology 


Midpoint of 12th house = 5§ 27° O7' 52" 20" 


(+) 6° 
Midpoint of 6th house = 118 27° =Q7' 52" = 20" 
Transition point of 12th and 1st house = 6° 11° 32' 39" 10" 

a 

Transition point of 6th and 7th house = Os 11° 32 39" 10" 
Mid point of first house — = 6s 25° 57' 26" OOo" 

(+) 6° 
Mid point of seventh house = Os 25° 57' 26" Oo" 


In this way by taking difference between mid point of 1st house and mid point of 4th 
house we calculate the mid points of 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th houses. 


Mid point of fourth house = gs 29° 28' 45" Oo" 
Mid point of first house =(-) 6 25° 57' 26" Qo" 
Difference = 35 3°) «631° =19" OO" 
Divide this by 6 to get shastamsa 
3§ 3° 31'19" 00" . 93° 31'19" = 45° 35' 13" 10" 
6 6 


Resultant shastamsa when added to the midpoint of first house continuously mid point 
and transition period of other houses can be got. 


Midpoint of first house 7 6§ 25° 57' 26" OO" 
(+) 15° -35'— 13" = 10" 

Transition point of 1st and 2nd house = 7° 11° 32’ 339",—- 10" 
(+) 15° 35°) 13" «10" 

Midpoint of second house = 7§ 27° O7' 52". 20" 
(+) 15° 35') 13" 10" 

Transition point of 2nd and 3rd house = 8s 12°. 43° O05" 30" 
(+) 15° 35’ =13" 10” 

Midpoint of 3rd house = 8° 28° 18' 18" 40" 
(+) 15° 35°) 13" 10" 

Transition point of 3rd and 4th house = 9° 13° 53° 31" 50" 
‘ (+) - 15° 35° 13" 10" 

Mid point for fourth house 7 ge 29° 38° 45" Oo" 


A Text Book of Astrology 53 


Add 6 signs to the resultant mid points and transition points. This will give mid points 
and transition points for opposite houses. Add 6 signs to the mid points of first to 
fourth houses as added to the mid points of first to tenth houses. 


Midpoint of 1st house = 6 25° 57' 26" OO" 
+ &s 
Midpoint of 7th house = O° 25° 57' 26" oo" 
Transition point of 1 st and 2nd house — 7> 11° «=©32' 39" 10" 
(4) 6° 
Transition point of 7th and 8th house = 1 Ate Sah = 39". 10" 
Midpoint of 2nd house = qe 27° 7! 52" 20" 
6° 
Midpoint of 8th house = 1° 27° 7’ 52" 20" 
Transition point of 2nd and 3rd house = 8§ 12° 43' 05" 30" 
Ca 
Transition point of 8th and 9th house = 2 12?" -.A3" 205" 30" 
Midpoint of 3rd house = 8 28° 18° 18" 40" — 
(+) 6° 
Midpoint of 9th house = 2° 28° 18' 18" 40" 
Transition point of 3rd and 4th house = OF Age Br eB = :50"" 
(Vie Oe E 
Transition point of 3rd and 4th house = 3° 18° Be" 31". 50" 
Midpoint of 4th house = g* 29° 38' 45" oo" 


(+4) & 


Midpoint of 10th house 3° 29° 38' 45" oo" 


it 


54 A Text Book of Astrology 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Longitudes of 12 Houses 


55 


Sidereal Time 
Table -1 


Sidereal Time at 12h noon local mean time for days of year. 
(For 821° E. Longitude and for 1900 A.D.) 


Date Sid. Time] Date Sid. Time} Date Sid. Time] Date Sid. Time] Date Sid. Time] Date Sid. Time 


February 


= 
) 
= 
) 
=> 
al 
a 
c 
>) 
o 


s hms hms hms hms 
1 18 41 48] 4 1 2 2425/1 0 3639/1 2 345511 4 378 
2 18 45 45] 9 2 2 382i9 9 4035/2 2 B52]0 4 415 
3 18 49.42] 3 3 22 4218/3 9 4430/3 2 424813 4 4502 
4 18 53 38], 4 2415/4 go ag2g|4 2 464514 4 4858 
5 18 5735], 5 2 501215 9 go 05/5 2 504115 4 5955 
6 191 St], 6 258 |g 9 562116 2 5438 lg 4 5651 
7 195 2] 7 2585 10 4 g agl7 2 BBi7 5 9 a8 
acne et oe ee ere ee ae 
10 19 17 18| 9 eee 2 Mla pelt ese 
1119 21 14 ui |?' 28 11.3 14 21 ae ene 
111 164 115 16 34 
12 19 25 11 12S AAT on yg | eo Re a 
13 19 287 13 23 21 44 13.3 22 14 
14 19 334 1423 ar {3 1 B57 ag ig [5 4 A 
15 19 370 ipcog: ootag YE SE eg eyez eee 
16 19 40 57 16 23 a3.a4 [1 S10 [ag a gag. [9 82 0 
17 19 44 47 -23-o7 30116) 4 47 a: gag, [18 ee 
18 19 48 g (18 28 74t-a7 |! 1 S89) 49g. aa be | 8: 8018 
19 13 (19 3 1 43 40 3 45.53 (18 5 44 10 
241 21 0 1 23 1513 3 5346/20 5 523 
20 21 6 lo 93 1 55 90. 3 57 43 J]21 5 560 
23 22 2 Blog o 1 59 26 4 1 399/225 5956 
24 26 49154 9 2 3 2 4 5 391236 3 53 
2 22 AS. 25:0 2 7 19|25 4 9 33/246 7 49 
26 22 14 43/96 o 2 1116 4 1329125 6 11 46 
27 22 39 ]27 0 2 15 12 4 1726}26 6 15 42 
28 22 22 36|28 0 2 199 4 2122|27 6 19 39 
29 22 26 32/29 0 2 236 4 28 6 23 35 
30 22 30 29/30 0 2 272 4 29 6 27 32 
31 22 25 |31 0 2 30 59 4 30 6 31 29 


56 A Text Book of Astrology 


Sidereal Time 
Table -1 - Continued 


Sidereal Time at 12h noon local mean time for days of year. 
(For 821° E. Longitude and for 1900 A.D.) 


Date Sid. Time} Date Sid. Time} Date Sid. Time}|Date Sid. Time|Date Sid. Time] Date Sid. Time 


September December 

h ms hms 
10 39 52 16 38 38 
10 43 48 16 42 35 
10 47 45 16 46 31 
10 A 16 50 28 
10 38 16 54 24 
10 34 16 58 21 
113 34 172 17 
47°27 176 14 
14 24 17 10 10 
1 AY 

17 

17 

17 

17 

17 


17 
17 


17 
11 17 
11 17 
11 17 
11 18 
12 18 
12 18 
12 18 
12 ‘ 18 
12 18 
12 18 
120 18 
12 18 
12 18 


OMAN DOA KR WND = 
OAN OU PWN = 


11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 


A Text Book of Astrology 57 


Table Il- Correction for different years 
(To be applied to the result of Table | above) 


Year Correction | Year Correction | Year Correction | Year Correction 


m os m s 
29 


BBRRBBNSSSREBSHELRFSES~ERRQO?” 


@ 


1948* 
1948¢ +1 
1949 
1950 

1951 
1952* 
1952+ +1 


* For January and February only. + For March to December. 
58 A Text Book of Astrology 


38 
19 
16 
13 
43 
46 
12 
9 

6 

51 
53 
4 

2 

59 
58 
0 

3 

54 
51 
5 

8 

10 
47 
44 
13 
15 
18 
39 
36 
20 
23 
2 
32 


Table til - Correction for different localities 


ms m s 


Allahabad 81°52E Greenwich 0°0E 
Bangalore | 77°36E | + Islamabad 73°10E 
Bangkok 100°30E Kuala Lampur} 101°43E 


Bombay 72°50E 6 Madras 80°15E 
Calcutta 88°23E 4 New York 74°0W 
Colombo 79°52E Pune 73°53E 
Dacca 90°25E Rangoon 96°10E 
Delhi 77°13E Varanasi 83°1E 


ooounoaoeo°o 


Correction is @ .66 seconds per degree of longitude from central meridian 82°30' and positive for 
West and negative for East. 


Table IV - Correction to Increase the time Interval 


Time Corr. Time Corr. Time Corr. Time Corr. 
h m m 
22+3 24 
23 3 30 
24+3 36 
m m 42 
6 +0 48 


h 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 


The time correction is applied for the time interval of the given moment from Noon, increased by 
the above correction. 


A Text Book of Astrology 59 


Tenth House or M.C. (For all _ eae on the Earth) 


10 20 43 
21 48 
22 52 

2357 


Proportional 
Variation in 4 mins: 1°-5' 1°-3' 1°-1' 0° -55 
Variation in 3 mins : 49' 47' 46' Al’ 
-Variation in 2 mins : 32! 31' 31’ 28' 
Variation in 1 min: 16’ 16' 15:' 14' 


60 A Text Book of Astrology 


Ascendant for Delhi, Latitude 28°39 ' North 


Variation in 4 Mins: 0°-51' 0°-53' 


Variation in 3 Mins; 38' 40' 
Variation in 2 Mins: 26' 27' 
Variation in 1 Min: 13' 13' 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Proportional Parts 
1°-0' = 1°-2' 1°-0’ 


45' 46' 45' 
30' 31' 30’ 
15’ 16' 15' 


61 


Ayanamsa Correction 
(Correction for precession i.e. for yearly variation of ayanamsa) 


ion fe 
mis s 


3 
3 
3 


1Loooo00oo 
Oo 
WODODAIKDUBWNHNPORPNWWE 


SODDDDDDOCOKRPBEBBEBEBBE BREE RPE PPP PEPE EPP RPRPRBPE PREP PREP EP RPE PPP PRP EEH 
ooo Roo oh oo holo ho holoho hol olo holo hoo oN ol ohooh oo holoRolololohololohololo holo Nooo kook ololokolololo loco) 
PREP RPP RPE RPRP BPP PEP RPE EP RPRPRPRPRPRPRP EPP HEPEPRPRPRPRPERPEROODOOOOCOODDOCCOOCCOOOOCO 


8 
7 
7 
6 
6 
6 
6 
5 
5 
5 
5 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
1 
+ 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 


eee ook oooh elo opoopon el oho o oo ooololokogokokosogogokocokokokogogosgogogogosogogogokoro) 


62 A Text Book of Astrology 


Chapter-7 
Planetry Positions 


Now let us discuss in detail how to calculation of exact planetary positions or the exact 
longitudes of the planets at the time of birth of the native. We use ephemeris for this. 
Longitudes of different planets for the entire year, month-wise, day-wise, are given as 
at 5.30 AM IST in the yearly ephemeris. 


To calculate the planetary position for a particular day and time first of all note down 
the data and time of the birth of the native. Go to the page in the ephemeris on which 
planetary positions of that month is given. Note down planetary position at 5.30 AM for 
that particular day from that page. Now we can calculate the planetary position for a 
particular time of that day easily by using logarithm table given in the ephemeris:- 


This can be explained in detail with this example 
Calculate planetary position for the native who is born on the 4th May at 17:20 hrs. 


First of all take ephemeris of that year and open the page where planetary position of 
the month of May is given. 


Note down the planetary positions for the required date 4th May from there. 


Note the planetary position of 5th May from the ephemeris. Subtract planetary position 
of 4th May from the planetary position of 5th May to get the difference for 24 hours 


But we want to know the exact planetary positions for (17:20 hrs - 5.30 hrs) 11:50 hrs. 
In other words we have to calculate the motion of the planets for 11 hrs 50 minutes. 


This motion can be calculated by the use the logarithm table. 


The resultant motion which is in the degrees and minutes will be added to the longitudes 
of planets given in the ephemeris for 5.30 AM on 4th May. In this way we will calculate 
the exact longitudes of planets at 17.20 hrs on 4th May. 


Numbers of ephemeris are available in the market to calculate planetary position but 
the ephemeris given by N C Lahiri is most accurate and popular. This ephemeris is 
also considered as the standard ephemeris to rectify errors in astronomical calculation. 
Planetary positions for every day at 5.30 are given in the yearly ephemeris. To know 
the planetary position for a particular day at 5.30 AM open the page on which the 
planetary position of that month is given in the ephemeris of that year. 


There are two types of ephemeris available in the market - One is yearly ephemeris in 
which astronomical data for a particular year are given and another is condensed 


A Text Book of Astrology 63 


ephemeris which shows five or ten years astronomical data. In the condensed 
ephemeris planetary position is given for alternate days. Thus In the yearly ephemeris 
planetary positions are given with 24 hours difference while in condensed ephemeris 
planetary positions are given with 48 hours difference. 


We can also calculate planetary positions by using Panchang or almanacs. Panchangs 
also show the planetary position with 24 hours difference. But the planetary positions 
given in most of the panchangs are based on the Local time rather than 1ST. Thus if we 
refer panchang to calculate planetary positions then we have to take care that we 
should only use the panchang published from the birth place of the native to calculate 
exact planetary position. 


If there is a panchang in which calculations are not based on local time and its data is 
similar to the ephemeris of N C Lahiri than it can be referred for the calculation of 
planetary position in all regions. Future Panchang which is published by future Point 
Pvt Ltd is such type of panchang. 


The longitudes of ascendant and tenth house are the longitudes of the mid points of 
these houses. Mid points of different houses are calculated on the basis of these 
longitudes only. With this the calculation of starting and ending points of the 12 house 
should also be calculated to know the exact length of different houses. 


Example -2 


Calculate the exact planetary position for the native born on 30 January 2011 at 3.30 
PM. 


Solution 

The tables are given in the future panchang for the planetary position can be used for 
anywhere on earth. We will calculate planetary positions in the following manner- 
Time of birth = 3.30 PM = 15.30 hrs 

Time as per table= 5.30AM = 5.30 hrs 

Differnce in time = 10 hrs 


As per page no 68 :- 
Longitude of Sun on 31 January 2011 at5.30AM= () 9 16° 43' 46" 


Longitude of Sun on 30 January 2011 at 5.30 AM = 9 16° 43' 46" 
Difference for 24 hrs = 1° 00' 57" 
Difference for 10 hrs = 1°0'57"x 10h 

24h 


64 A Text Book of Astrology 


As per log table = Log (1 ° 0'57") + Log (1 Oh) - Log (24h) 
Results as per lob table mentioned in future panchang 
= 1.3730 + 0.3802-0.0=1.7532 


The method of using antilog table is same as that of using log table. But this will be 
used in reversed order. We will take the degrees given with 1.7532.Here 0 degree 25 
minutes is the closest degree. It means Sun Mover 25 minutes ahead in 10 hrs. 


Antilog (1.7532) = 0 degree 25 minutes 
Sun's longitude on 30 January 


2011 at 5.30 AM = Qs 16° 43' 46" 
Sun's motion in 10 hours = (+) 0° 25' 49" 
Sun's longitude = Qs 16° 07's 49" 


We can calculate longitudes of other planets by using same method. To calculate the 
longitude of retrograde planets deduct the outcome from the longitude of retrograde 
planet instead of adding it. 


Calculation of planetary positions for the native who is born in 
foreign country 


Convert the birth time of the native into Indian Standard Time. 
Now follow the same method as mentioned above to calculate exact planetary position. 
Example: 


Date of birth of the native = 30 January 2011 
Time of birth of the native = 15.30 hrs. 
Place of birth of the native = Newyark. 


First of all convert New Yark standard time into Indian Standard Time. 
Longitude of standard meridian of New Yark 75° 00' West 
Longitude of standard meridian of India 82° 30' East 


A Text Book of Astrology 65 


Greenwich 


0° 
180° West 180° East 
Zonal Zonal Longitude 
Longitude of India 
of New York 
k——————- 75°00’ + 82°30’ ——_——_- 
Difference between both zonal meridians = 157 degree 30 minutes 


Motion of earth in 4 minutes = 1 degree 


Thus we will multiply the difference by 4 to know the exact difference of time between 
both meridians. 


157 degrees 30 minutes X 4 minutes = 628 minutes 120 seconds = 630 minutes 
= 10 hrs 30 minutes 


Since Newyork is in the West from India. Hence the Indian watch time is advance by 
10h30m from Newyork watch time. Therefore for Time correction from Newyork Time 
to Indian Time, have to add 10h 30m in Newyork Time. 


Hour Minute 
Time of birth = 15 30 
Time correction for India = (+4) _10 30 
Indian time = 25 60 
= 26 00 
= 02 00 


Hence if the time of birth in New Yark is 15 hours 30 minutes then it will be 2.00 Am as 
per Indian Standard Time. 


Time of birth of the native will 2.00 AM on 31 January 2011 as per Indian standard 
time. 


Planetary positions will be calculates as per this converted time (2.00 AM) 


66 A Text Book of Astrology 


As per Indian Standard Time the difference of time between 5.30 Am and birth time is 
20 hours 30 minutes . 


Longitude of Moon on 30 January 2011 at 5.30 AM 


= ri 28° 27 
Longitude of Moon on 31 January 2011 at5.30AM = 8° 11° 15) 
Difference in 24 hours — 12° 48' 
12° 48' 
Difference in one minute = 24h 
Difference in 20 hours 30 minutes = 12° 48' x 20h 30m 
24h 


As per log table 
Log (12 degree 48 minutes) +Log (20 hours 30 minutes) - Log (24 hours) 
=0.2730 +0.0685 -0 = 0.03415 this number is at 10 degree 56 minutes in log table. 


Longitude of Moon on 30 January 2011 at 5.30 AM = a 28° 827 
Motion of Moon in 1 h 38m + 10° 56 
Longitude of Moon at 2.00 AM on 31 January 2011. = 8° 9° 23' 


Longitudes of all other planets will be calculated in the same manner. 


Longitude at 5.30 AM : ‘ : 
on 30.1.2011 7° 28° 27'| 9° 17° QO'| 8° 28° 28'| 11 07° 20 | 8° 00° 04'| 5 28° 11'| 8 08° 19 
Ss Ss 


Longitude at 5.30 AM 

on 31.1.2011 8° 11° 15'| 9° 17° 47} 8° 29° 58] 11°07° 32'| 801° 11'| 5 23° 11'] 8° 08° 19) 
Motion in 24 hours 

as per log. (A) 0.2730 1.4863 1.2041 2.0792 1.3323 


fo.00 | 


Tog oft hous (6) [ooo [ooo [ooo [ooo —foco [ooo __| 
Taal s8)-(6) __[ossse | vases | vseas_|2assa [1728 [ooo [ooo 


Motion in 10 hrs. 5° 20 o° 19° 0° 37' 0°5' 0° 28' 
Anti log of total 
Longitude at 5.30 AM : 

on 30.1.2011 7° 28° 27'| 9° 17° 00'| 8° 28° 2B'| 11°07° 20 | 8° 00° 04'| 5° 23° 11'| 8° 08° 19' 


Planet degree 8° 3° 47' | 9° 17° 19'| 8° 29° 35'| 11° 07° 25'] 8° 00° 32'| 5 23° 11'| 8 08° 19) 
at 15.30 hrs. 


A Text Book of Astrology 67 


Longitudes of Planets 


j Penet_ Rashi and Degree | Rashi | Degree _| 


09° 16° 07' Capricorn 16°07' 
Moon 08° 03° 47' Sagittarius 03°47' 
Mars 09° 17° 19' Capricorn 17°19 
Mercury 08° 29° 05" Sagittarius 29°05) 


Jupiter 11° 07°25) Pisces 07°25) 
Venus 08° 00°32" Sagittarius 00°32! 
Saturn 05°23°11' Virgo 23°11' 
Rahu 08°08°19' Sagittarius 08°19 
Ketu 02°08°19' Gemini 08°19' 


Calculation for Retrograde planet 


Longitudes of retrograde planets decrease whereas longitudes of planets with direct 
motion increases constantly. So deduct the calculated motion of retrograde planet 
from the longitude of that planet and add the motion of direct planet in the longitude of 
that planet. 


In the example horoscope Mercury, Jupiter and Rahu are retrograde so the calculated 
motions of these planets are deducted from the longitudes of these planets. 


Formation of Horoscope 


Place the planets in the horoscope prepared on the basis of calculated ascendant. 
The horoscope formed so is called lagna Kundali. 


Formation of Moon horoscope 
In this horoscope Moon sign is taken as the first house . 


68 A Text Book of Astrology 


ABojoysy jo YOO, xe] 


69 


08:16:11:15 


. |08:17:12:25 
.(08:18:13:36 
. |08:19:14:46 
.108:20:15:57 


07:05:13:30) 
07:18:37:59| 
08:01:49:42 
108:14:48:05 
08:27:32:49 


08:24:21:23 
08:25:07:49 
08:25:54:18 
08:26:40:50 
08:27:27:23 


Planetary Degree January, 2011 
Chitrapakshiya Ayanamsa : 24:00:55 Indian Standard Time 05:30 A.M. 


Mercu 


07:25:49:21 
07:26:08:04 
07:26:34:07 
07:27:06:49 
07:27:45:29 


Jupiter] 


Sie ae 

11:02:32:10 
11:02:40:16 
11:02:48:32 
11:02:56:57 
11:03:05:30 


a 
Venus 


06:29:32:56 
07:00:30:49 
07:01:29:13 
07:02:28:06 
07:03:27:27 


Saturn 


se 22 io) 


(05:22:38:41 
05:22:41:18 
05:22:43:48 
\05:22:46:12 
05:22:48:30 


08:08:44:57 
08:08:45:35 
08:08:46:02 
08:08:46:02 
08:08:45:26 


02:08:44:57 
02:08:45:35 
02:08:46:02 
02:08:46:02) 
02:08:45:26 


Uranus 


/11:02:56:35 
11:02:57:55 
11:02:59:18 
|11:03:00:44 
11:03:02:13 


Neptune 
Sg 
10:02:43:08 
10:02:44:50) 
10:02:46:34| 
10:02:48:20) 
10:02:50:06 


08:11:18:56 
08:11:21:05 
08:11:23:14 
08:11:25:23 
08:141:27:32 


. |08:21:17:07 


08:22:18:17 
08:23:19:27 


. |08:24:20:37 
.|08:25:2 1:46 


09:10:04:06 
09.22:22:47| 
10:04:30:25 
10:16:29:21 
10:28:22:43 


08:28:13:58 
08:29:00:36 
08:29:47:15 
09:00:33:57 
09:01 :20:40 


07:28:29:30 
07:29:18:16 
08:00:11:17 
108:01:08:05 


11:03:14:12 
11:03:23:03 
11:03:32:02 
11:03:41:09 


08:02:08:17/11:03:50:24 


07:04:27:15 
07:05:27:29 
07:06:28:08 
07:07:29:11 
07:08:30:38 


05:22:50:42 
05:22:52:48 
05:22:54:47 
05:22:56:41 
05:22:58:28 


08:08:44:12 
08:08:42:27 
08:08:40:09 
08:08:37:31 
08:08:35:09) 


02:08:44:12 
02:08:42:27 
02:08:40:09) 
02:08:37:31 
02:08:35:09 


11:03:03:44 
11:03:05:19 
11:03:06:56 
|11:03:08:36 
/11:03:10:18 


10:02:51:55) 
10:02:53:44) 
10:02:55:34| 
10:02:57:26| 
10:02:59:19) 


08:11:29:40 
08:11:31:48 
08:11:33:56 
08:11:36:03 
08:11:38:10 


. |08:26:22:55 
.|08:27:24:03 
. |08:28:25:11 


08:29:26:18 
09:00:27:25 


11:10:14:16 
11:22:08:18 
00:04:09:31 
00:16:22:40 
00:28:52:23) 


09:02:07:25 
09:02:54:12 
09:03:41:00: 
09:04:27:50 
09:05:14:42 


08:03:11:30 
08:04:17:25 
08:05:25:45 
08:06:36:16 
08:07:48:45 


11:03:59:47 
11:04:09:19 
11:04:18:57 
11.04:28:44 
11:04:38:38 


07:09:32:27 
07:10:34:37 
07:11:37:09 
07:12:40:01 
07:13:43:13 


05:23:00:09 
05:23:01:43 
05:23:03:11 
105:23:04:33 
(05:23:05:48 


08:08:33:31 
08:08:32:40 
08:08:32:37; 
08:08:33:28 
08:08:35:05 


02:08:33:31 
02:08:32:40 
02:08:32:37 
02:08:33:28 
02:08:35:05 


11:03:12:03 
111:03:13:51 
11:03:15:42 
11:03:17:35 
(11:03:19:31 


10:03:01:13 
10:03:03:09| 
10:03:05:05) 
10:03:07:03 
10:03:09:01 


08:11:40:16 
08:11:42:22 
08:11:44:28 
08:11 :46:33 
08:11:48:37 


. }09:01:28:30 
.|09:02:29:36 
. |09:03:30:40 
.109:04:31:44 
. |09:05:32:47 


01:11:42:40 
01:24:56:28 
02:08:35:10) 
02:22:38:05 
03:07:02:05: 


09:06:01:35 
09:06:48:30 
09:07:35:26 
09:08:22:24 
09:09:09:23 


08:09:03:01 
08:10:18:54 
08:11:36:15 
08:12:54:57 
08:14:14:55 


11:04:48:39 
11:04:58:48 
11:05:09:03 
11:05:19:26 
11:05:29:56 


07:14:46:43 
07:15:50:32 
07:16:54:39 
07:17:59:04 
07:19:03:45 


05:23:06:57 
05:23:08:00 
05:23:08:56 
105:23:09:46 
105:23:10:29 


08:08:36:52 
08:08:38:11 

08:08:38:41 
08:08:38:03 
08:08:35:55 


02:08:36:52 
02:08:38:11 
02:08:38:41 
02:08:38:03 
02:08:35:55) 


'11:03:21:30 
11:03:23:30 
11:03:25:34 
'11:03:27:40 
11:03:29:48 


10:03:11:01 

10:03:13:01 
10:03:15:03 
10:03:17:06) 
10:03:19:09) 


08:11:50:41 
08:11:52:44 
08:11:54:47 
08:11:56:49 
08:17:58:50 


09:06:33:49 
09:07:34:52 


. |09:08:35:53 
.09:09:36:54 
, |09:10:37:55 


03:21:41:44 
04:06:29:47, 
04:21:18:17; 
05:05:59:45 


09:09:56:24 
09:10:43:26 
09:11:30:29 
09:12:17:34 


05:20:28:13|09:13:04:41 


08:15:36:02 
08:16:58:14 
08:18:21:27 
08:19:45:38 
08:21:10:43 


11:05:40:32 
11:05:51:15 


11:06:13:01 
(11:06:24:03 


41:06:02:05, 


07:20:08:42 
07:21:13:55 
07:22:19:24 
07:23:25:08 
07:24:31:05 


05:23:11:06 
105:23:11:37 
05:23:12:01 
05:23:12:19 
05:23:12:30 


08:08:32:27' 
08:08:28:19 
08:08:24:10 
08:08:20:16 


08:08:17:04) 


02:08:32:27' 
02:08:28:19 
02:08:24:10) 
02:08:20:16 
02:08:17:04 


11:03:31 :59 
111:03:34:12 
11:03:36:27 
11:03:38:45 
111:03:41:05 


10:03:21:13 
10:03:23:18) 
10:03:25:24) 
10:03:27:31 
10:03:29:39] 


08:12:00:51 
08:12:02:50 
08:12:04:49 
08:12:06:48 
08:12:08:45 


.|09:11:38:55 
. }09:12:39:54 


09:13:40:53 
09:14:41:52 


. |09:15:42:49 
.09:16:43:46 


06:04:39:51 
06:18:32:57 
07:02:07:36 
07:15:25:01 
07:28:27:02 


09:13:51:48 
09:14:38:58 
09:15:26:08 
09:16:13:19 
09:17:00:32 


08:11:15:36 


09:17:47:46 


08:22:36:40 
08:24:03:27 
08:25:31 :03 
08:26:59:26 
08:28:28:35 


08:29:58:30 


11:06:35:12 
11:06:46:27 
14:06:57:48 
11:07:09:15 
11:07:20:49 
11:07:32:27 


107:25:37:17 
07:26:43:42 
07:27:50:20 
|07:28:57:10 
08:00:04:12 
08:01:11:25 


05:23:12:35 
105:23:12:33 
05:23:12:25 
05:23:12:10 
05:23:11:49 
05:23:11:22 


08:08:15:13 
08:08:15:05 
08:08:16:18 
08:08:18:02 
08:08:19:26 


08:08:19:48 


02:08:15:13 
02:08:15:05 
02:08:16:18 
02:08:18:02 
02:08:19:26 
02:08:19:48 


11:03:43:27 
11:03:45:51 
11:03:48:18 
1 11:03:50:47 
11:03:53:18 
11:03:55:51 


10:03:31 :47, 
10:03:33:56) 
10:03:36:06 
10:03:38:16 
10:03:40:27, 


10:03:42:39 


08:12:10:42 
08:12:12:37 
08:12:14:32 
08:12:16:26) 
08:12:18:19 
08:12:20:11 


3 Degrees or Hours 3 
a 

5 1 2 3 8 9 Jf10 Jil 12 5 

o| - 1.3802] 1.0792] 9031 6812 | 6021 4771 | 4260 | 3802] 3388 | 3010! 0 

1 | 3.1584] 1.3730] 1.0756] 9007 6798 | 6009 | 5341°| 4762 | 4252 | 3795] 3382 | 3004] 1 

2 | 2.8573] 1.3660] 1.0720) 8983] 7745| 6784| 5997 | 5330 | 4753 | 4244 | 3788] 3375 | 2998 | 2 

3 | 2.6812] 1.3590] 1.0685) 8959| 7728] 6769| 5985 | 5320] 4744 | 4236 | 3780| 3368 | 2992 | 3 

4 | 2.5563] 1.3522] 1.0649) 8935| 7710) 6755.| 5973 | 5310! 4735 | 4228 | 3773} 3362 | 2986 | 4 

5 | 2.4594] 1.3454] 1.0614] 8912] 7692] 6741 | 5961 | 5300, 4726 | 4220 | 3766} 3355 | 2980] 5 

6 | 2.3802] 1.3388] 1.0580] 8888| 7674! 6726 | 5949 | 5289 | 4717 | 4212 | 3759} 3349 | 2974] 6 

7 | 2.3133} 1.3323] 1.0546] 8865| 7657. 6712 | 5937 | 5279 | 4708 | 4204 | 3752) 3342 | 2968) 7 

8 | 2.2553] 1.3258] 1.0511 8842] 7639) 6698| 5925 | 5269 | 4699 | 4196 | 3745} 3336 | 2962] 8 

9 | 2.2041] 1.3195] 1.0478} 8819] 7622} 6684 | 5913 | 5259 | 4690 | 4188 | 3737| 3329 | 2956 | 9 

“10) 2.1584] 1.3133} 1.0444] 8796 6670 | 5902 | 5249 4682 | 4180 | 3730) 3323 | 2950 

11 2.1170} 1.3071) 1.0411} 8773 6656 ; 5890 5239 4673 4172 3723 3316 2944 

12] 2.0792] 1.3010} 1.0378] 8751 6642 | 5878 | 5229 | 4664 | 4164 | 3716 | 3310 | 2938 

13] 2.04444 1.2950} 1.0345] 8728] 7552| 6628 | 5866 | 5219 | 4655 | 4156 | 3709] 3303 | 2933 

14] 2.0122] 1.2891} 1.0313) 8706} 7535| 6614/5855 | 5209) 4646 | 4148 | 3702] 3297 | 2927 

15} 1.9823] 1.2833] 1.0280] 8683} 7518] 6600/5843 | 5199 | 4638 | 4141 | 3695] 3291 | 2921 

16, 1,9542| 1.2775] 1.0248] 8661} 7501| 6587 | 5832 | 5189 | 4629 | 4133 | 3688] 3284 | 2915 

17, 1.9279] 1.2719] 1.0216] 8639] 7484] 6573 | 5820 | 5179 | 4620 | 4125 | 3681 | 3278 | 2909 

18) 1.9031) 1.2663} 1.0185) 8617) 7467] 6559 | 5809 | 5169 | 4611 | 4117 ) 3674] 3271 | 2903 

| 19] 1.8796] 1.2607} 1.0153] 8595| 7451] 6546 | 5797 | 5159 | 4603 | 4109 | 3667| 3265 | 2897 

20] 1.8573] 1.2553] 1.0122] 8573] 7434] 6532/5786 | 5149 | 4594 | 4102 | 3660| 3258 | 2891 

21} 1.8361) 1.2499} 1.0091] 8552] 7417) 6519 | 5774 | 5139 | 4585 | 4094 | 3653] 3252 | 2885 

22} 1.8159] 1.2445] 1.0061] 8530] 7401] 6505 | 5763 | 5129 | 4577 | 4086 | 3646] 3246 | 2880 

23| 1.7966} 1.2393} 10030] 8509| 7384] 6492/5752 | 5120 | 4568 | 4079 | 3639 | 3239 | 2874 

24, 1.7781} 1.2341] 1.0000] 8487] 7368) 6478 | 5740 | 5110 | 4559 | 4071 | 3632] 3233 | 2868 

25) 1.7604) 1.2289) 0.9970| 8466) 7351] 6465 | 5729 | 5100 | 4551 | 4063 | 3625 | 3227 | 2862 

26| 1.7434) 1.2239} 0.9940] 8445| 1335] 6451 | S718 5090 | 4542 | 4055 | 3618] 3220 | 2856 

27| 1.7270) 1.2188} 0.9910] 8424] 7318| 6438) 5706 | 5081 | 4534 | 4048 | 3611 | 3214 

28| 1.7112} 1.2139] 0.9881] 8403} 7302] 6425 | 5695 | 5071 |.4525 | 4040 | 3604 

29, 1.6960] °1.2090} 0.9852] 8382} 7286] 6412 | 5684 | 5061 | 4516 | 4032 | 3597 

30) 1.6812] 1.2041| 0.9823] 8361| 7270] 6398 | 5673 | 5051 | 4508 | 4025 | 3590 

31} 1.6670] 1.1993] 0.9794] 8341| 7254] 6385 | 5662 | 5042 4499 | 4017 | 3583 

32) 1.6532) 1.1946} 0.9765] 8320} 7238| 6372) 5651 | 5032] 4491 | 4010 | 3576 

33| 1.6398) 1.1899} 0.9737] 8300} 7222] 6359| 5640 | 5023 | 4482 | 4002 | 3570 

34| 1.6269] 1.1852} 0.9708] 8279| 7206| 6346) 5629 | 5013 | 4474 | 3994 | 3563 

35| 1.6143] 1.1806} 0.9680] 8259| 7190] 6333} 5618 | 5003 | 4466 | 3987 | 3556 

36, 1.6021] 1.1761] 0.9652] 8239| 7174| 6320| 5607 | 4994 | 4457 | 3979 | 3549 

37| 1.5902] 1.1716] 0.9625] 8219} 7159) 6307| 5596 | 4984] 4449 | 3972 | 3542 

38| 1.5786| 1.1671| 0.9597] 8199| 7143] 6294| 5585 | 4975 | 4440 | 3964 | 3535 

39) 1.5673} 1.1627} 0.9570| 8179, 7128| 6282 | 5574 4965 | 4432 | 3957 | 3529 

40] 1.5563) 1.15M| 0.9542] 8159, 7112] 6269 | 5563 | 4956 | 4424 | 3949 | 3522 

41] 1.5456} 1.1540} 0.9515] 8140] 7097] 6256 | 5552 | 4947 | 4415 | 3942 | 3515 

42, 1.5351} 1.1498} 0.9488] 8120} 7081] 6243 | 5541 | 4937 4407 | 3934 | 3508 

43) 1.5249) 1.1455} 0.9462} 8101) 7066) 6231 | 5531 | 4928 | 4399 | 3927 | 3501 

44} 1.5149] 1.1413) 0.9435] 8081] 7050| 6218 | 5520 | 4918 | 4390 | 3919 | 3495 

45] 1.5051] 1.1372 0.9409] 8062! 7035] 6205 | 5509 | 4909 | 4382 | 3912 | 3488 

46| 1.4956] 1.1331] 0.9383} 8043] 7020} 6193 | 5498 | 4900 | 4374 | 3905 | 3481 

47] 1.4863] 1.1290] 0.9356] 8023] 7005] 6180] 5488 | 4890 | 4365 | 3897 } 3475 

48| 1.4771] 1.1249] 0.9330} .8004] 6990| 6168 | 5477 | 4881 | 4357 | 3890 | 3468 

49| 1.4682] 1.1209] 0.9305] 7985] 6975| 6155 | 5466 | 4872 | 4349 | 3882 | 346 

50] 1.4594] 1.1170) 0.9279 5456 | 4863 | 4341 | 3875 | 3454 

51} 1.4508] 1.1130) 0.9254 5445 | 4853 | 4333 | 3868 | 3448 

52] 1.4424) 1.1091' 0.9228 5435 | 4844 | 4324 | 3860 | 344 

53| 1.4341] 1.1053] 0.9203 5424 | 4835 | 4316 | 3853 | 3434 

54] 1.4260] 1.1015] 0.9178 5414 | 4826 | 4308 | 3846 | 3428 

55| 1.4180] 1.0977] 0.9153 5403 | 4817 | 4300 | 3838 | 342 

56| 1.4102) 1.0939] 0.9128 5393 | 4808 | 4292 | 3831 | 3415 

57| 1.4025] 1.0902] 0.9104 5382 | 4798 | 4284 | 3824 | 3408 

58| 1.3949] 1.0865] 0.9079 6045 | 5372 | 4789 | 4276 | 3817 | 340 

59| 1.3875] 1.0828) 0.9055 5361 | 4780 | 4268 | 3809 | 3395 

| to fi 2 [3 [4 6 8 9 10 


A Text Book of Astrology 


Degrees or Hours 


Minute 


WOMDANDUNFWNPHO 


A Text Book of Astrology 71 


Chapter-8 
Casting of Horoscope 
Lagna & Chalit 


There are different methods of casting a horoscope but North Indian method is most 
popular amongst all. In this method a square or rectangle is formed and then it is 
divided in 12 equal parts as shown in figure. These 12 parts are called 12 houses or 
bhavas of the horoscope. The upper centre part is known as 1 st house and subsequent 
houses are counted in anticlockwise method from there. Houses are shown by numbers 
in the following figure. The 1 st house is called lagna or ascendant. 


The zodiac sign obtained after calculation of lagna is marked by its number in 1st 
house. Other signs are fixed in other houses in anticlockwise direction. Now planets 
are placed in various houses according to their signs calculated earlier. 


Example: In the example horoscope the longitudes of lagna is 625°57'26". it means 
that 6th zodiac sign was over and 7th sign was rising at the time of birth. The 7th 
zodiac sign is Libra therefore lagna will be Libra. Other signs will be fixed in the 
horoscope in anticlockwise direction and planets will be placed in the signs of 
horoscope according to their longitude. The horoscope will be as shown below: 


Lagna Horoscope 
72 A Text Book of Astrology 


Chalit Horoscope 


In lagna horoscope, planets are marked according to the signs of their position. In 
chalit horoscope planets are placed according to spread or domain of a house. The 
cusps of a house indicate starting and ending longitudes of a house and as such. its 
spread is also known. The mid point tells the middle longitude of the house. In the 
casting of chalit horoscope first of all numbers of signs are written according to their 
midpoint. 

For example 1 st house midpoint is 6s25°57'26". It means number 7 of Libra sign will 


be written in 1 st house. The midpoint of 2nd house is 7s25°57'26" so Scorpio sign will 
be written in 2nd house. Similarly according to midpoints of all houses, signs will be 


written in all houses. 
MoVeRa 
8 


POX 


Chalit 


Note : Sometimes one zodiac sign covers midpoints of 2 houses in calculation. In that 
situation, same sign will be marked in both houses. Later on the planets will be marked 
in the zodiac signs according to their longitudes. For example longitudes of Sun are 
9s19°10'. In lagna horoscope Sun has been marked in 4th house. Now we shall see 
the spread of 4th house in Table of longitudes of houses. The start of 4th house is 
9s9°17'37" and its end is at 10s9°28'35". Longitudes of Sun are within the limits of 4th 
house, therefore Sun will be marked in 4th house. 


The longitudes of Venus are 7s6°1' which is placed in 2nd house in Lagna Horoscope. 
The spread of 2nd house is from 7s25 degree 57'26" to 8s25°57'26". The longitudes 
of Venus are not within 2nd house but are in the limits of 1 st house. The spread of first 
house is from 6s 25 degree 57 minutes 26 seconds to 7s 24 degrees. Therefore 
Venus will be placed in 1st house in chalit horoscope. Similarly all planets can be 
marked. In this way chalit horoscope shows the actual position of planets in the 
horoscope. 


QO 


A Text Book of Astrology 73 


Chapter-9 
Vimshottari Dasa Calculation 


Whatever may be the planetary position in a horoscope, life of a native does not re- 

main uniform. Life is a cycle of good and bad periods. During course of life, native has 

to face many obstacles, hardships etc. to protect his rights and achieve success, fight 

against environment and circumstances. Contrary to this, many times success in 

achieved without any significant efforts. This phenomenon can best be explained by 

Dasa - Paddati. According to Main periods, Sub - periods and Sub - Sub - periods 

of different planets, native goes on getting the results. These results may be favourable 
or unfavoruable depending upon overall strength of these planets in a horoscope. 


Although number of Dasa - Systems have been in practice since ancient times, most 
important of these Dasa - Systems are :- 


1. Vimshottari 
2. Ashtottari 
3. Yogini 


1. Vimshottari: 

In this system life span has been taken as 120 years. This is based on Nakshtras. In 
this system cycle begins with Kritika Nakshtra whose ruler is Sun. Dasa period of 
native starts with his Janma - Nakshtra only. The period assigned to different planets 
and various Nakshtras for which dasa of a particular planet will be applicable can be 
explained by following table:- 


[Planet [Sun | Moon | Mars | Rahu_ | Jupiter 
Yeas [6 fo t7@ tt 


Kritika Rohini Mrigshira | Ardra Punarvasu 


UttarPhalguni | Hasta Chitra i Visakha 
Uttarashada Shravana| Dhanista | Satbhisa Poorvabhadrapada 


Blane an eee hey vee 
Years [19 tt? 7 ft 


Pusya eo 
Anuradha Poorvaashada 
Uttarbhadrapad | Revati ini Bharni 


74 A Text Book of Astrology 


Calculation of Dasa & Antardasa 


In Indian astrology timing of an event is predicted by Dashas. In dashas the most 
popular and accurate system is of Vimshottari Dasha. The total duration of all dashas 
is 120 years. Our sages have assumed life to be of 120 years. 


For calculation of mahadashas the position of Moon at birth time is considered. The 
sign where Moon is situated is the birth sign of the native and nakshatra where Moon 
is posited is birth nakshatra. The mahadasha at birth time starts with planet who is 
lord of birth nakshatra. 


The duration of mahadashas of various planets is as below: 


Sod GR PS 


The sequence of mahadashas is same as shown above i.e. after Sun comes Moon, 
Mars after Moon, then Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu and Venus. The duration of 
antardashas is in the same proportion and sequence is also the same. The balance 
duration of a mahadasha at the time of birth is calculated as below : 


The spent degrees of birth nakshatra indicate the balance duration of mahadasha. 
The span of a nakshatra is 13°20' = 800' 


For example the longitudes of Moon are 3°9°00'. According to the table of nakshatras, 
Moon was in Pushya nakshatra. The lord of Pushya is Saturn, therefore mahadasha at 
birth time was of Saturn. 


The duration of Pushya is from 3°3°20' to 3°16°40'. Moon will have to travel 7°40' more 
to get out of Pushya i.e. balance of nakshatra is 460 kalas. 


Ending degrees of Nakshatra 3°16°40' 

Spent degrees of Nakshatra - 3°09°00' 

Balance degrees = 7°40'=7x60'+40' 
= 460' 


Lord of Pushya is Saturn therefore Saturn mahadasha will operate at the time of birth. 
Saturn has been allocated 19 years which is equivalent to span of one nakshatra i.e. 
800 kalas. The balance dasha will be equivalent to balance span of nakshatra. 


A Text Book of Astrology 75 


Duration of Saturn mahadasha in 800 kala =19years 


Duration of Saturn mahadasha in 460 kala aah x 460! 


= 10 years 11 months 3 days 


Note : The last pages of Ephemeris contains table of spent vimshottari dasha. The 
balance dasha can also be calculated by its help. 


By adding the balance period of dasha in date of birth the time of completion of dasha 
can be known. By addition of tenure of other dashas, their completion time can be 
known. 


For example date of birth is 1.2.1969. The balance of Saturn dasha is 10 years 11 
months 3 days. This should be added in date of birth. 


YYYY MM DD 
Date of Birth 1969 02 01 
Balance of Saturn Dasha (+) 10 11 03 
End of Saturn Dasha 1980 01 04 
Duration of Mercury Dasha (4) 17 00 00 
End of Mercury Dasha 1997 01 04 
Duration of Ketu Dasha (+) °7 00 00 
End of Ketu Dasha 2004 01 04 
Duration of Venus Dasha (4) 20 00 00 
End of Venus Dasha 2024 01 04 
Duration of Sun Dasha (+) 06 00 00 
End of Sun Dasha 2030 01 04 
Duration of Moon Dasha (+) 10 00 00 
End of Moon Dasha ~ 2040 + +«#OL 04 
Duration of Mars Dasha (+4) 07 00 00 
End of Mars Dasha 2047 01 04 


76 A Text Book of Astrology 


Calculation of Antardasha 


After calculation of mahadahsa, antardasha is determined. As the tenure of a 
mahadasha is long, it is divided into small parts. During the mahadahsa of a planet, 
this does not give results in own antardasha but becomes effective when the antardasha 
of another planet starts. 


The formula for calculation of antardasha is that multiply the total years of operating 
mahadasha by total years of mahadasha of planet whose antardasha is to be calcu- 
lated and divide it by 120. 


For example for calculation of Moon antardasha in Sun mahadasha 


Mahadasha years of Sun x Mahadasha years of Moon 
120 


Antardasha of Moon = 6x10 


10 7 6 months 


Similarly antardasha period of all planets can be calculated. This is indicated in the 
table below : 


Antardashas in Vimshottari Mahadasha 


Antardasha in Mahadasha of Sun 


wee ae ee oe ee ee 


A Text Book of Astrology 77 


Antardasha in Mahadasha of Mars 


Boat bh 


The antardasha can also be calculated by the help of Table in ephemeris. 


Balance of Saturn mahadasha is 10 years 11 months 3 days. It means at the time of 
birth 8 years 0 months 27 days were spent. If we look in the Antardasha Table of 
Vimshottari dasha in Ephemeris, the antardasha of Venus ends in 9 years 11 months 
21 days of Saturn mahadasha, At the time of birth Saturn mahadahsa had passed 8 
years 0 months 27 day i.e. at that time antardasha of Venus in Saturn mahadasha was 
operating. If we subtract spent 8 years 0 month 21 days from 9 years 11 months 21 
days balance 1 year 10 months 24 days will be balance antardasha of Venus in 
mahadasha of Saturn. By adding this balance antardasha in date of birth, the date of 
completion of Venus antardasha can be calculated. 


The details of Vimshottari Dasa and periods assigned to different planets have 
already been discussed above. The main period running at a particular time 
will be the lord of Nakshtra in which Moon is posited. Depending upon the 
longitude of Moon and by calculating the degrees of the particular Nakshtra 
already passed, we can calculate balance of dasa of main planet on 
proportionate basis. However, for this purpose we can make use of above table 
which serves as a ready reekoner to calculate balance of main period depending 
upon the longitude of moon. 


78 A Text Book of Astrology 


Example 1.- Longitude of Moon given at the time of birth is 6° 13: 20'. Calculate 
balance of main period at the time of birth. 

Ans : Moon is in Libra sign and therefore from the table if we see corresponding to 
13° 12' in column no. 3, we find the main dasha running is of Rahu and balance 
periods is 9 years 0 months O Days. In this case Moon is in Swati Nakshtra whose 
lord is Rahu. 


Example 2. - Longitude of Moon given at a particular time is 10: 27° 23' Calculate 
balance of main period. 


Ans:- Moon in the case is in Aquarius sign and in Purva Bhadrapad Nakshtra whose 
lord is Jupiter. Therefore main period running should be of planet Jupiter whose total 
period is 16 years. 

lf we make use of the above table, we see that corresponding to 27° 20' when moon is 
in Aquarius sign, the main period running is of Jupiter and balance period is 12 years. 
For 3' using 'Proportional Parts for Dasa of Planets table, we find that corresponding 
to 3' and Jupiter O month and 22 days are to be further subtracted. Therefore balance 
main period will be (12y OM OD - OM 22D) = 11 years 11 Months and 8 Days. 
Calculation of sub - periods and sub - sub periods has already been explained while 
discussing Vimshottari Dasa System. 


Q 


A Text Book of Astrology 79 


Chapter-10 
Divisional Charts 


Each House of Lagna chart denotes various significations e.g. various significations 
of some of the house are as under :- 


Second House:- 
Family, Wealth, Health of spouse, Longevity of self, art collection, right eye, speech 
etc. 


Fourth House:- 

Mother, House, Land, Happiness, education, conveyance, success in examinations, 
friends, property, general comforts, heart, domestic life, accident of road, rail or walking 
etc. 


Twelfth House:- 


Harm, Punishment received, confinement, expenditure, donations (given), marriage, 
vedic sacrifices, fines paid, sexual enjoyment outside wedlock, contacting sexually 
transmitted diseases, weakness in sexual acts, loss of wife, losses in marriage, 
separation from own people etc. 


The above indicates that various significations of each House touch almost every 
aspect of life. All these aspects are not simultaneously good or bad in one's life. 
Divisional charts help us by isolating the event governed by a particular divisional 
chart from those governed by a House. 


Divisional charts are studied and analyzed for following two purposes :- 


1. To see the strength of a planet by observing its placement in various 
divisions. 

2. For identifying the results of a particular sector of life by studying the corresponding 
divisional chart along with the concerned house in natal (birth) chart. 


Although there is a mention of large no. of divisional charts in various texts of 
Astrology, sixteen divisional charts known as Shodasvargas are considered 
more important and relevant to important aspects of life. The details of these 
charts are as under:- 


80 A Text Book of Astrology 


Part of Sign Purpose (To 
une Chart Study) 


Rasi Full /30° General well being 


Hora Ye Part/15° Wealth 


Decante or 1/3 Part/10° Happiness from 
Dreshkana coborn, initiative. 


Chaturthamsa 1/4* Part/ 7° 30' Fortune, Net Assets 
or Turyamsa 


Saptamamsa 1/7* Part/ 4°17°8.57” | Dynasty, Progeny and 
Happiness therefrom 


Navamamsa 1/9* Part/3°20' Spouse, general fortune, Marital 
happiness, Religious pursuits 


Dasamamsa 1/10* Part/ 3° Professions, fame, power, position. 
Dwadasamsa 1/12* Part/ 2° 30’. Parents 


Shodasamsa 1/16* Part/ 1° 52’ 30” | Conveyance and related happiness 


Vimsamsa 1/20* Part 1°30' Worship, spiritual progress, religious 
activities 


Chaturvimsamsa | 1/24* Part/1 °15’ Vedic, Mantric, Tantric, Cultural, Social, 
or Siddhamsa Physical and general education 
(Academic achievements) 


Sapthavimsamsa]| 1/27* Part/ 1°6' 40" Physical strength and strain 
or Bhamsa 
or Nakshtramsa 


Trimsamsa 1/30* Part/ 1° Happiness and miseries, evils, 
misfortune, chastity in 
female horoscope 


Khavedamsa 1/40* Part/ 45' Auspicious and inauspicious effects 
Akshavedamsa | 1/45* part/40' Character and Conduct 


Shashtiamsa 1/60* part / 30’ All general indications 


A Text Book of Astrology 81 


Apart from above Shodasvargas, we also find reference to SHADVARGA, 
SAPTAVARGA and DASVARGA. The various divisional charts referred to by these 
are as under: - 


Shadvarga :-  Rasi, Hora, Decante, Navamsa, Dwadasamsa, and Trimsamsa. 
Saptvarga = Add Saptamansa in Shadvarga. 
Dasvarga Add Shodasamsa, Dasamamsa and Shashtiamsa in Saptavarga. 


General Principles for Analysing Divisional Charts 


1. Divisional charts are not independant like Rasi chart. An event can take place only 
when it is indicated in Rasi chart. Event should not be predicted on the basis of 
divisional chart alone. 


2. A planet becomes powerful if it is exalted, situated in his own sign, possesses 
digbala in divisional chart. 


3. In divisional chart planets in 4", 7", and 10"houses give very good results. They 
give good results in 5*, 9" and 11"houses, whereas the 2nd house is neutral in all 
the divisional charts. 


4. Any planet situated in 3", 8 and 12''from ascendant of a divisional chart gives 
bad result during his period. Exalted planets situated in these houses become 
powerless to give good results. 


5. Benefics on both sides of ascendant of a divisional chart or of a planet increase 
good effects. Similarly malefics on both sides increase bad effects. 


6. Principles of Dasa - Bhukti are also applied to divisional charts to judge the effects. 
7. The effects of transits are also judged from divisional chart. 


8. A debilitated planet in divisional chart gives bad results in his Dasa or Bhukti 
concerning aspect of life denoted by that divisional chart unless there is a 
cancellation of debilitation e.g. Debilitated planet in 


Navamsa - causes problems in married 
Sapthamsa - causes unhappiness about children. 
Chaturvimsamsa - causes dislocation or obstacles in education. 
9. Any planet placed in 3” or 8* house in any divisional chart causes death like effects 


during his Dasa or Bhaukti. e.g. To spouse in Navamsa 
To profession in Dasamsa (like retirement or resignation) 


82 A Text Book of Astrology 


10. A Planet situated in the same sign both in Rasi chart and any divisional chart is 
called ‘Vargottam’ with reference to that divisional chart. The results of Vargottam 
planets are always good. The results of Vargottam planets as per different 
astrological texts are as under:- 


Saravalli - Good Results 

Chandrakalanadi - Results of Rajyoga and enjoyment 

Phaladipika - Results as if planet is placed in own sign 

Let us now see how various divisional charts are cast and what are the principles of 
interpretation of some of the important divisional charts. 


Hora 
(2 Parts of 15 degree each) 


Since Hora chart is studied to know about the wealth of native, the same is studied in 
conjunction with second house of lagna chart. In respect of odd signs first Hora is of 
Sun whereas second Hora is of Moon. In even signs first Hora is of Moon whereas 
second Hora is of Sun. In Hora chart Rahu and Ketu are always together. 


Table of Hora 


Signs Hora Lord | Hora lord 
(0-15°) (15-30°) 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 


A Text Book of Astrology 83 


The various ways of representation of planets in Hora chart are as under:- 


(i) (ii) 
Planets are indicated either in Hora of Moon (4) or in Hora of Sun (5) depending on 
their position. 


Example:- 
Caste the Hora chart for the given longitude of planets: - 
Ascendant 5§ — 15°-57' 


Sun 18-49-11’ 

Moon 10° — 27° — 26’ 

Mars 6& — 119-24! 

Mercury 0s — 12°-34' 

Jup. 0% — 129 — 34’ 

Ven. O° - 24° - 2' 

Sat 5s - 15°-28' 

Rahu 10° — 2° — 44’ 

Ketu 4s 20- 44? Bec 


Principles of interpretation of Hora chart: 


1. Jupiter, Sun and Mars give pronounced effects in Hora of Sun. The Moon, Venus 
and Saturn do so in Moon's Hora. Mercury is equally effective in both Horas. 

2. Incase of even Rasi, the Hora of Moon with be powerful. In odd Rasi, Sun's Hora 
will be powerful. 

3. The effect due to a Hora will be derived fully if planet is in the first one-third part of 
Hora. The effect will be medium or nil according to the placement being in second 
or third part of Hora. 

4. During operational period of planets placed in Hora of Sun, a native earns and 
accumulates wealth by own efforts. During the planets placed in Hora of Moon, 
earning and accumulation of wealth comes natural i.e. without much effort. 


84 A Text Book of Astrology 


Dreshkana 
(3Parts of 10 degree each) 


This chart is studied in conjunction with third house of Lagna chart. The first Dreshkana 
(0 —10°) of any sign is of the some sign, second Dreshkana ( 10 —20°) is fifth from sign 
and third Dreshkana ( 20 - 30°) is ninth from sign. 
Table of Dreshkana 
9 10 11 


KS 
Se 


Dreshkana 


There are 12 signs and each sign has three Dreshkana and therefore there are total 
36 Dreshkana. Each Dreshkana has certain characteristics, which are described as 
under: ; 


Characteristics of 36 Dreshkana 


1. ARIES : 

(a) 1* Dreshkana: - Man with a white cloth round his waist, dark complexion, pretending 
to protest, fearful red eyes and a lifted axe - masculine, armed, ruler Mars. 

(b) 2™ Dreshkana: - Woman with red cloth, fond of ornaments and food, pot belly, 
horseface, vinsty and single footed - feminine ruler Sun. 

(c) 3 Dreshkana: - Man, cruel, skilled in arts, yellowish, fond of work, unprincipled, 
with a lifted up stick, angry and covered with purple clothes - masculine, armed, 
ruler Jupiter. 


A Text Book of Astrology 85 


2. TAURUS:- 


(a) 1*Dreshkana: - Woman with torn ringlets, pot belly, burnt cloth, thirsty, fond of food 
and ornaments — feminine, fiery, ruler Venus. 


(b) 2°" Dreshkana: - Man possessing knowledge of lands, grains, houses, cows, arts, 
ploughing and carts, hungry, sheep faced, dirty clothes and shoulders like the hump 
of an ox - masculine, quadruped, ruler Mercury. 


(c) 3° Dreshkana: - Man with a body like that of an elephant, white teeth, legs like that 
of a Sarabh, yellowish colour and clever in capturing sheep and deer- masculine, 
quadruped, ruler Saturn. 


3. GEMINI: 


(a) 1**Dreshkana: - Female, fond of needlework, handsome, fond of ornamentation, 
issueless, lifted hands and in menses — feminine, ruler Mercury. 


(b) 2° Dreshkana: - Man, living in garden, in armour, with a bow, warlike, armed with 
weapons, face like that of Garuda, fond of play, children, ornamentation and wealth 
- masculine, armed, ruler Venus. 


(c) 3" Dreshkana: - Man adorned, decked with gems, armoured with quiver and bow, 
skilled in dancing, drumming and arts and poet- masculine, ruler Saturn. 


4. CANCER:- 


(a) 1stDreshkana: - Man, holding fruits, roots and leaves, elephant bodied, residing 
on sandal trees in the forest, legs like that of sarabha and horse necked - 
quadruped, masculine, ruler Moon. 

(b) 2™ Dreshkana: - Female worshipped on the head by lotus flowers, with serpents, 
full blown youthfulness, living in forests on branch of phalasa and crying-feminine 
ruler Mars. 


(c) 3° Dreshkana: - Man covered with serpents, flat faced, crossing the ocean in a 
boat in search of wife's jewels-masculine, serpent, ruler Jupiter. 


5. LEO:- 


(a) 1 stDreshkana :- Vulture and jackal on the Salmali tree, a dog and a man 
dressed in dirty garments, leaving father and mother and crying - masculine, 
quadruped, ruler Sun. 


(b) 2" Dreshkana :- Man resembling a horse's body with white garlands on the 
head, wearing krishnajina and kambalam, fierce as a lion with a bow in the hand 
and bent nose - masculine, ruler Jupiter. 


86 A Text Book of Astrology 


(c) 3° Dreshkana :- Man with a bear's face, acts like those of a money, long beard, 
curbed ringlets and holding a stick, fruit and flesh - masculine, quadruped, ruler 
Mars. 


6. VIRGO -- 


(a) 1s Dreshkana :- Female with a pot, full of flowers, covering the body with dirty 
garments, fond of money and clothes, and going to the home of the preceptor - 
feminine, ruler Mercury. 


(b) 2™ Dreshkana :- Man with a pen in the hand, dark complexion, the head tied 
round by a cloth, counting gains and expenditure, covered over the body with dense 
hair and holding a big bow- masculine, ruler Saturn. 


(c) 3° Dreshkana :- Female, yellowish, covered by a white silk cloth, tall holding a pot 
and a spoon, going to a temple with great sanctity - feminine, ruler Venus. 


7. LIBRA: 


(a) 1* Dreshkana :-Man seated in a shop in the middle of the road, holding balances, 
clever in weighing and measuring with a small scale for weighing gold, diamonds, 
and thinking of his capital and the prices of the articles in the shop - masculine, 
ruler Venus. 


(b) 2 Dreshkana :- Man with a vulture's face, hungry and thirsty, holding a pot which 
is ready to fall and thinking of his wife and children - masculine, ruler Saturn. 


(c) 3° Dreshkana :- Man decked with gems, wearing golden quiver and armour and 
frightening and animals in the wilderness, resembling a monkey and holding in the 
hand fruits and flesh - masculine, quadruped, ruler Mercury. 


8. SCORPIO :- 


(a) 1* Dreshkana :- Woman naked and without ornaments, coming from the middle 
of a great ocean to the shore, dislocated from her original place, the feet bound by 
serpents and handsome - feminine, serpent, ruler Mars. 


(b) 2’ Dreshkana :- Woman fond of home and happiness for her husband's sake 
and covered by serpents with a body resembling a tortoise and a pot - feminine, 
serpent, ruler Jupiter. 


(c) 3% Dreshkana :- Lion with a broad flat face, resembling a tortoise, frightening 
dogs, deer, boars and jackals, protecting localities covered with sandalwood trees 
- masculine, quadruped, lion, ruler Moon. 


A Text Book of Astrology 87 


9. SAGITTARIUS -- 


(a) 1st Dreshkana :- Man with a human face and a horse's body with a bow in hand 
residing in a hermitage, protecting sacrificial articles and Maharishis - masculine, 
quadruped, armed, ruler Jupiter. 


(b) 2" Dreshkana :- Woman, handsome, with the colour of Champaca or gold, picking 
up the gems from the ocean and sitting in the Bhadrasana fashion -feminine, ruler 
Mars. 


(c) 3 Dreshkana :- Man with a long beard, complexion like that of Champaca or 
gold, holding a stick, sitting in a splendid posture and keeping silks and deer skins 
- masculine, armed, ruler Sun. 


10.CAPRICORN -:- 


(a) 1% Dreshkana :-Man covered with much hair, teeth like those of a crocodile, body 
like that of a pig, keeping yokes, nets and bandages, and with a cruel face - 
masculine, Nigala, ruler Saturn. 


(b) 2" Dreshkana :- Woman, skilled in arts, broad eyes like lotus petals, greenish 
dark, searching all kinds of articles and wearing iron ear ornaments - feminine, 
ruler Venus. 


(c) 3 Dreshkana :- Man, with a body like that of Kinnaras, with a Kambalam, with a 
quiver arrows and bow, and bearing a pot on the shoulder decked with gems - 
masculine, armed, ruler Mercury. 


11. AQUARIUS :- 


(a) 1% Dreshkana :- Man with a mind disturbed by oils, wines, water and food being 
brought to him, with a Kambala, silk cloth and deer skin and a face e lene that 
ofa vulture -masculine, ruler Sani. 


(b) 2 Dreshkana :- Woman, covered with a dirty cloth in a forest, bearing pots on her 
head and dragging metals in a burnt cart loaded with cotton trees in it - fiery, 
feminine, ruler Mercury. 


(c) 3” Dreshkana :- Man dark, with ears covered with long hair, wearing a crown and 
wandering with pots filled with iron, skin, leaves, gum and fruits - masculine ruler 
Venus. 


88 A Text Book of Astrology 


12. PISCES :- 


(a) 1s Dreshkana :- Man decked with ornaments, holding in hand sacrificial vessels, 
pearls, gems and conch shells and crossing the ocean in a boat in search of jewels 
for his wife - masculine, ruler Jupiter. 


(b) 2" Dreshkana :- Woman with a colour more beautiful than that of Champaka, 
surrounded by her attendants, and sailing in a boat decked with long flags in search 
of the coast of the ocean - feminine, ruler Moon. 


(c) 3" Dreshkana :- Man crying in a pit in a forest, naked and covered over his body 
by serpents and with a mind distracted by thieves and fire - masculine, serpent, 
ruler. 


Depending upon characteristics of different Dreshkana, these have been classified 
into following groups:- 


Ayudha 

Sarpa 

Nigada (Bedi) 

Pakshi 

Chatuspada 

Varaha 

Pasha (Phansi or Hanging) 


NOOR WN > 


Uses and Principles of Dreshkana Chart 


1. This chart is very useful in knowing the success or otherwise of journey undertaken 
by native. Result of rising Dreshkana at the time of start of journey are predicted 
with reference to their form, action and nature :- 


(a) If Dreshkana is agreeable, bearing flowers, fruits, gems, treasure or aspected by 
benef ics, prosperity will attend traveller's march. 


(b) If armed, will be victorious. 
(c) !faspected by malefics, traveller will be defeated. 


(d) If Dreshkana happen to be serpent or bondage, the traveller will be disgraced or 
imprisoned or will die. 


The beginning dasha legal case under Article 302 or verdict of this case in Pasha 
Dreshkana means getting death punishment or hanging. 


If there is chatuspada Dreshkana and it has the aspect of malefic planets, it causes 
death of cattle's in native's house. There should be no purchase as of cattle's in 
such Dreshkana. 


A Text Book of Astrology 89 


2. Characteristics of Dreshkana helps to determine the nature, appearance and 
other peculiarities of a person involved in theft in horary astrology. In a question 
connected with theft, the following indicate various aspects of theft:- 


Lagna :- Time when article has been stolen away or lost, direction in which taken, 
place from where it is lost and locality in which it is deposited or concealed. 


Lagna Lord : Age and caste of thief 
Navamsa The nature of article lost 
Dreshkana : Nature and form of thief. 


3. Study of Dreshkana helps us to analyze general characteristics of persons. For 
this purpose depending upon characteristics of each Dreshkana, these have been 
divided into four groups namely kroor, watery, saumya and mixed. The 
characteristics of persons born under these rising Dreshkana will be as under:- 


(a) KROOR :- Evil or wicked minded, wandering nature, engaged in wicked and 
sinful deeds, quarrelsome. 


(b) WATERY :- Giver of alms, pleasure loving, kind hearted, getting wealth by farming 
or through watery objects ( Fish etc.) large bodied and emotional 


(c) SAUMYA:- Kind hearted, handsome, happiness, prosperity. 

(d) MIXED :- of bad conduct and character, extra marital relations, evil eyed, volatile 
nature. 

4. Source of death is predicted with reference to characteristic of rising Dreshkana 


of 8h Bhava. The Dreshkana falling in 8th Bhava is known as death bringing 
Dreshkana. 


Chaturthamsa / Turyamsa 


(4 Parts of 7° 30’ each) 

This chart is studied in conjunction with 4* house of Lagna chart. The 1%, 2", 3:, and 
4th Chaturthamsa are ruled respectively by the same sign, 4t" 7in and 10h signs 
therefrom. 


The fourth house, its lord and its significators, the Chaturthamsa Lagna and 4" house 
from the Chaturthamsa Lagna are studied to know the destiny of the native in the 
context of worldly pleasures and conveniences. 


90 A Text Book of Astrology 


Table of Chaturthamsa 


(0-7°30') 
(7°30’ — 15°) 
(15°-22930’) 
(22°30'— 30°) 


Chaturthamamsa 


Saptamamsa 


(7 Parts of 4° 17’8.57” each) 


This chart is studied in conjunction with 5 house of Lagna chart. Apart from analyzing 
dynasty, progeny and happiness therefrom, it provides a very important clue regarding 
sex of child during particular dasa periods. The counting of Sapttamamsa commences 
from the same sign in case of odd signs like Aries, Gemini, etc. and it commences 
from the seventh sign in case of even signs like Taurus, Cancer etc. 


Table of Saptamamsa 


a4 


4178.57" 
8°34'17.84” 
12°51'2571" 


17°8'34.28” 
21°25'42.85" 
25°42’51.42” 
30° 


N OT fF WD = 


A Text Book of Astrology 91 


Saptamamsa Chart of example given in Hora chart will be as under:- 


Saptamamsa 


To know the sex of child during a particular planetary period following principles are 

applied : 

(i) If Lagna of Saptamamsa and its lord are strong and Jupiter occupies auspicious 
position form lagna, one is sure to be blessed with male progeny. 


(ii) Planets connected with Lagna, angular and trine houses in Saptamamsa and 
auspiciously disposed promote matters of progeny in their own main/ sub periods. 
While male planets so connected occupying male signs bless with male progeny, 
the female planets bless female progeny. 

Navamamsa 

(9 Parts of 3°20’ each) 

The counting of Navamamsa in the various signs is an under :- 


In Moveable signs - From sign itself 
In fixed signs - From 9" from the sign 
In Dual signs - From 5" from the sign 


The designations of the names of Navamamsa are in the following orders:- 


For Movable signs - Deva (Divine), Manushya (Human) and Rakshasa (Devil) 
For Fixed signs - Manushya, Rakshasa, Deva 
For Duel signs - Rakshsa, Manushya, Deva 


92 A Text Book of Astrology 


Sign} , 
Degreé 


20° 


23°20' 


26°40’ 


30° 


Navamamsa chart of example given in Hora chart will be as under= 


EN 


Navamamsa 


The attainment of a person in life are solely dependant on successful married life, that 
is why, in kalachakra, the house opposite lagna has been allotted for marriage. Whether 
a person will have mental compatibility with spouse is considered with the relationship 
between Lagna/ Moon of Rasi chart with Lagna/ Moon of Navamamsa chart. The 
marriage may be both bliss and bane. The strong placement of seventh house, its lord 


A Text Book of Astrology 93 


and signif icator together with Moon and other houses connected with that i.e. 1st house 
(self health), 2nd House (family), 4th House ( domestic peace and general happiness of 
life), 5th House (progeny), 8" House (Sexual enjoyments), 12" House (bed comforts), 
good position of these planets in Navamamsa with benefic influence on these provide 
the native with timely and happy marriage. On the other hand if these planets are weak 
by debilitation/ combustion/ placement in dushtasthanas/ debilitated in Navamamsa/ 
afflicted by association or aspect of malefic will make the marriage baneful. 
Navamamsa charts is considered so important that many astrologers analyze this 
chart like lagna chart and give equal weightage. Because of its importance, this chart 
is always cast along with Lagna chart. 


Dasamamsa 
(10 Parts of 3° each) 


This chart is studied to analyze profession, fame, power and position. This chart is 
also known as career analysis chart. The counting of Dasamamsa is to be made from 
the same sign for odd signs and from the 9" sign for even signs. 


— Sinn; 5 3 4 5 67 8 9 OH DL 


Degree _ : 
3° 1 103 12 5 2 7 4 9 6 HUH 8 
& 2 wu 4 1 6 3 8 5 10 7 «12 9 
% 3 12 5 2 7 4 9 6 H 8 1 10 
12° 4 1 6 3 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 «11 
15° 5 2 7 4 9 6 H 8 1 10 3 12 
18° 6 3 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 U4 1 
21° 7 4 9 6 H 8 1 10 3 12 5 2 
24° 8 5 107 1229 2 HU 4 1 6 3 
27° 9 6 Hl 8 1 10 3 125 2 7 «4 
30° 10 7 12 9 2 i 4 1 6 3 8 5 


94 A Text Book of Astrology 


The Dasamamsa chart of example given in Hora chart will be as under: 


Wag 
Pl 
PNR 


Dasamamsa 


Dasamamsa chart can pinpoint factors causing delays and temporary disappointments 
in profession. 


Principles of Interpretation of Dasamamsa Chart 


1. 


In Dasamamsa Lagna assumes a tremendous significance. If Lagna is aspected 
by benefics, it becomes strong, then it may be presumed that career of the native 
stands on a good foundation provided, of course, Lagna chart does not tell 
altogether different results. 


If powerful Sun is posited in upachaya houses aspected by Jupiter, native is likely 
to get recognition and eminence in career. 


If Dasa lord is strong in lagna chart and poised to give good results but lacks 

adequate strength in Dasamamsa, such Dasa lord may create uncertainties, under 
critical sub - periods. A sub dasa lord unfavourably placed in Dasamamsa from 

Dasa lord and afflicted with malefics may even temporarily hold up anticipated 

results. 


Planets in tenth house in Dasamamsa during their ruling periods will better the 
prospects of one's career. 


If there is no planet in tenth house in Dasamamsa, then its lord during its ruling 
period will confer honour to the native. 


. Planets aspecting lord of tenth house in Dasamamsa should also be considered 


powerful with respect to one's profession. 


The period of planets in kendra of Dasamamsa will be a mile stone in one's 
career. 


A Text Book of Astrology 95 


Dwadasamsa 
(12 Parts of 2°30’ each) 


This chart is studied to know about parents. The counting of Dwadasamsa commences 
from the same sign j 


12°30' 


15° 
17°30' 
20° 
22°30! 
25° 
27°30 
30° 


96 A Text Book of Astrology 


Shodasamsa 
(16 Parts of 1°52’30” each) 


The chart of studied to analyze conveyance and related happiness. The counting of 
shadasamsa in the various signs in as under:- 

In Movable signs - From Aries 

In Fixed signs - From Leo 

In Dual signs - From Sagittarius 


1°52'30" 
3°45' 
5°37'30” 
7°30' 
9°22'30" 
11°15'0” 
13°7'30' 
15° 
16°52’30” 
18°45" 
20°3730" 
22°30' 

24°22'30" 
26°15 

28°7'30" 
30° 


Shodasamsa 


A Text Book of Astrology 97 


Vimsamsa 

(20 Parts of 1°30’ each) 

The counting of Vimsamsa in the various signs is as under:- 
In Movable signs - FromAries 
In Fixed Signs - From Sagittarius 
In Duel Signs - FromLeo 


1°30' 
- 
4°30' 
& 
7°30! 
9 
10°30' 
12° 
13°30' 
15°0' 
16°30' 
18° 
19°30' 
21° 
22°30' 
24° 
25°30' 
27° 
28°30' 
30° 


a 


as 
4 


ie) 


—_ 
ie) 
OANOA RON = 


- = 2 OON OATH WDND = 
y+ Oo 
+= OONOOAHKWDND = 
po — 
|= 2 OOMONOOAHKRWHND = 
-+ Oo 
—_ 
-+ oO 


= 
ine) 


= OOMONODAAWBDND = 
— 
ie) 


fo) 
fo) 
= OOMONOOAAKRWND = 


oO 


= 
= 
ONoOaoahRWBN = 


= OMAN OOAHKRAWON = = 
Ss-$ OMDANOOAHKWODN = 
OANoakR WD = 
o 
OAONOaKRWND = 


20 
230 
—_k 
r) 


OnNOoaARWND = oo 
= 
ine) 

= 

= 


ANoOaPRWDND = 
RON x 

a 

ine) 

RON = 

a 


4 
ine) 
= 
ine) 


Vimsamsa 


98 A Text Book of Astrology 


Chaturvimsamsa or Siddhamsa 
(24 Parts of 1°15’ each) 


The counting of Siddhamsa commences from Leo in odd sign and from Cancer in 
even signs. 


1915 

2030’ 

3°45! 

> 

6°15’ 8 

7°30! 1029" “10; gi 640. °9 
8°45) 1110 11 «+10 11° 10 
10°0' 120 Ae AD AN, 
419-15) 124. 42 4 42 
12°30! 
13°45! 
15°0! 
16°15) 
17°30! 
18°45! 
20°0' 
21°15" 
22°30! 10 9 109 10 9 


4 
a4 


OANDOARWN = 
ANOoa KRWND 
OAN Oa KRW PD 
ANoOaFW ND 
OANDa FWP 
ANOoaRWBN = 
OANDARWN = 
OMAONDA AWD 


23°45' 1140610 «6©11:«©10:«©611~—S 10 
25°0' 12 11 #12 «#11¢«12 «2711 
26°15’ 1 12 


—_ 
an) 
—_ 
Oo - oO 


27°30' 2 
28°45! 3 
30°0' 4 


Siddhamsa 


A Text Book of Astrology 99 


Saptavimsamsa or Bhamsa or Nakshtramsa (27 Parts of 1°6'40" each) 
Counting of Bhamsa in various signs is as under: - 


In Fiery signs (1,5,9) - FromAries In Earthy signs (2,6,10)-From Cancer 
InAiry signs (3,7,11) - From Libra In Watery signs (4,8, 12) -From Capricorn 


™~_Sign 1 

Degree 
1°6'40" 
2°13'20" 
3°20'0" 
4°26'40" 
5°33'20" 
6°40'0” 
7°46'40” 
8°53'20" 
10° 
11°6'40" 10 
12°13'20” 
13°20'0" 
14°26'40” 
15°33'20" 
16°40'0” 
17°46'40" 
18°53'20" 
20° 
21°6'40" 
22°13'20" 
23°20' 
24°26'40” 
25°33'20" 
26°40'0” 
27°46'40" 
28°53'20" 
30°0'0” 3 


3 4 


Nn 


7 8 


\o 
Oo 
— 
= 
— 
N 


7 10 7 10 
8 11 8 11 
9 9 


= 
NO 
i 
NO 


COIDNEWNE 
COIDNHAEWNH 
COIDNEWNYE 


— 
oO 


OMmMAADNPWNHE 
i 
= 


a 
Ne 
— 
Oo 
tend 
wo 
FP OANADNAWNK 
oO 
eee 
Nr oO 
OMANI DNAHPWHY 


— 
= 
— 
= 
CmMAIDMNPWNYHE 
eee 
Nr Oo 


—_ 
N 
e 
N 


10 1 


= 
So 


COmMAADNFWNY 
— 
— 


— 
N 


OmAADUNPWNHE 
a 
= ©: 


COMAIDNHPWNY 
COmMADNAWNYHE 


12 


N aa 
a) 
OMA DNFWNH 
ao 
NFO 
a 
Nr Oo 
PO 


2, 
3 


— 
= 


2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
1 
1 
1 


— 
DAYMBWNHe 
OMmAANDNAPWNK 
See 
NFO 

— 
NNW WN 
OmAAANDNMNBWN KE 
— 
NO 


The Bhamsa chart of example given in Hora chart is as under: 


ZN A 


mit 
VOLS 


100 Bhamsa A Text Book of Astrology 


Trimsamsa 


( 30 Parts of 1° each) 

in odd signs the lords of Trimsamsa are Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury and Venus. 
Each of them rules 5,5, 8, 7, and 5 degrees' respectively. In even signs, the quantum 
of Trimsamsa and planetary lordship gets reversed. 


Aries Gem Leo Libra Sag Ac} Degree Tau Can Vir Sco Cap Piss 
2 2 2 2 2 2 


1 1 1 1 1 1 


111 


Trimsamsa 


A Text Book of Astrology 101 


Khavedamsa 
(40 Parts of 45' each) 


The counting of Knavedamsa in odd signs commences from Aries and that of even 
signs from Libra. 


Rasi ee ee <a (0, 2) 
14132537" Khav. 891 #7 °1 7 «1 «7 «1 +7 «4 +7 «4° =~°7 
adi4hagn3enKhav. 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 
3¢15"27"39*Kha. 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 «9 
4*16*28*40* Khav. 4 10 4 10 4 #10 4 #104 «210 4~= 10 
5¢41729* Khav. 5 115 1 5 15 15 15 
6*18*30* Kha. 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 126 12 6 ~= 12 
7n19%31stKhav. 7 1 7 14 7 «4 +7 «4 «7 °«4 +47 ~4 


8* 20* 32nd Khav. 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 


9" 21% 33ra Khav. 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3.49 3.469 3 
10% 22"4 34* Khav. 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 
11* 23rd 35th Khav. 15 15 15 W 5 1 5 1 5 
12" 24* 36* Khav. 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 


Khavedamsa chart of example given in Hora chart is as under:- 


Khavedamsa 


102 A Text Book of Astrology 


Akshavedamsa 

(45 Parts of 40' each) 

The counting of Akshavedamsa in various signs is as under: 
In Movable signs - From Aries 

In Fixed signs - From Leo 

In Dual signs - From Sagittarius 


Rasi 

1%43"25" 37* Aksh. 
2" 44h 26 38" Aksh. 
3% 15%27% 39* Aksh. 
4" 16" 28" 40" Aksh. 
5* 17" 29418 Aksh. 
6" 18°30" 42" Aksh. 
7* 19" 31 *43Aksh. 
8" 20% 324 44 Aksh. 
Qt 218 33" 45" Aksh. 
10°22” and 34" Aksh. 
1123" and 35" Aksh. 
1224" and 36* Aksh. 


oOo @O NN ODO a F WwW ND 
o AON DO oO F WO DN 
oO AON DOD a F WO DN 
o ON OD a F WO DY 


= 
oO 

ea el 
- 06 CO 
ee eS 
Po - Oo 
ath ek 
po + oOo 


Akshavedamsa 


A Text Book of Astrology 103 


Shashtiamsa 
(60 Parts of 30' each) 


The counting of Shashtiamsa is done from the same sign for all signs. To findout the 
Shashtiamsa lord, ignore the sign position of planet and take degree etc. of that planet, 
multiply that figure by 12 and add 1. The resultant number is the sign from the sign whose 
Shashtiamsa is to be known is which the Shastiamsa falls and the lord of that sign will 
be the Shastiamsa lord. 


Suppose we have to find out the Shastiamsa of the Sun's position 1°4°11’. The sign 
position is ignored i.e. 1 is ignored. The remainder 4°11’ is multiplied by 2, we get 8° 
- 22'. Ignoring minutes the degrees are divided by 12 i.e. 8/12, the remainder being 8 
is added to 1 i.e. 8 + 1=9. As the Sun's position is in Taurus, 9 signs from Taurus are 
counted which gives the sign Capricorn. Therefore Shashtiamsa is of Capricorn and 
Saturn is the Shashtiamsa lord. 


Shashtiamsa chart of example given in Hora chart is as under: - 


Shashtiamsa 


104 A Text Book of Astrology 


Chapter-11 


Planets in Different Houses : 
Prediction 


SUN 
First House: 


Tall body, nose and forehead high, well proportioned body. Mentally disturbed with 
spouse and members of in-laws. Fond of tourism, foreign travel. Establishment away 
from homeland. Financial ups and downs. Gets angry very soon, self-respect, brave, 
courageous, playful. Problems in marriage. Ambitious, body ache, injury in head, weak 
eyesight, bald-headed. Whimsical, apprehensive, suspicious. Loss of wealth and 
properly and therefore assets keep on varying. Health problems at the age of 15, 
mostly suffers from eczema. 


If debilitated, marriage not possible before age of 24, loss of wealth and son, loss of 
respect and honour. If exalted, wealth, intellectual ability, darkness before eyes, cataract, 
squint, Greedy, famous. 


If Sun in own sign, suffers from night blindness. If aspected by or in conjunction with 
benefic planets native gets only good results. If Sun in Cancer sign eyes small, if in 
Aries or Leo sign heart trouble. If in Scorpio or Pisces sign very famous person. If 
aspected by Mars, suffers from T.B., Asthma. If aspected by Saturn, develops suicidal 
tendencies. 


In female horoscope - Angry, self-respect, playful, obstinate, picks up quarrel, 
argumentative, deprived of husband's attention. If aspected by Saturn, suicidal 
tendencies, stubborn, head injury, headache, harsh in speech, dependant on other's 
food, ungrateful, ill health in childhood, contact with lower grade people. If exalted or in 
own sign, luxurious life. 


Second House: 


Slender body, frail constitution, red eyes, extremely lucky, impatience in listening to 
others. Invests money for a good cause. Does not maintain good relations with 
members of in-laws. Suffering from ear-nose and throat (ENT) problems. Earns through 
the business of non-ferrous metals. Penalized by government. Wealth and property 
acquired by Govt. Defect in speech, stammers, stays in other's house. Well educated. 
Embezzles govt. money. Not affectionate with family members and spouse. Wealthy 
but pays fine to govt. in one form or other. Diseases of mouth. Death of husband after 
death of wife. 


A Text Book of Astrology 105 


IfSun in signs 1, 4, 5, 8, 9, 12excellent results. IfSun in signs 7, 10, and 11 or in enemy 
sign then beneficial effect is reduced. Penalized in the age from 17 to 25, loss of 

money through theft. If in enemy sign or aspected by a malefic, problem in right eye. If 
aspected by Saturn, poor, danger from thief or govt. Ifin conjunction with Rahu- very 

wealthy person. 


In female horoscope - loss of wealth and family, poor, Throat problems. If Sun in own 
sign- prosperity. Jealous, quarrelsome, no friends, harsh in talking, without devotion, 
eyes problems, devoid of marital happiness. If Sun is exalted - wealthy and happy. If 
Sun in own sign or owner of benefic house - good results. 


Third House: 

Bold, adventurous, dignified, fond of visiting religious places. Oppressed by brothers. 
Victorious in wars, wrestling and games. Honour from government, poet, intellectual, 
interested in meditation, yoga. Religious, very hard worker, sportsman, immense ability 
for occultism. Enmity with relatives, Having loyal servants. Always in company with 
good looking and charming ladies, having number of disciples to serve. Destroyer of 
elder brothers, Fear of animals at the age of five, financial gains at the age of 20, 
having more number of cousin brothers. Comfort of conveyance, interest in science 
and art, living with brother may be harmful for both. 


If Sun is weak then chances of fracture in the hand. If Sun is malefic- danger from fire 
and poison. Ifsun is aspected by malefic - chances of death of brother/ sister or sister 
getting widow. If debilitated - ear problems, extravagant in expenditure. 


In female horoscope:- Begets sons, dignified, luxurious life, sportswoman, proficient 
in dancing, settles away from the native place, Foreign travel, devoid of happiness 
from brothers/ sisters. Large breast, loving husband, health normal, good looking, 
protects others. If Saturn is in sixth house husband is having very high status. 


Fourth House : 

Grieved, handsome, settles away from native place. Defeated, destroyer of father's 

property, Desire for learning occult subjects, Devoid of comfort of conveyance. Ill health 
of mother, self-health suffers, fearful. Heart troubles Devoid of comforts of friends, 

luxuries, land and property. Employed in govt. service, Handicapped or problem in 

some vital organ of body. Have sexual relations with number of females. Progress at 

the age of 22. Efficiency of work improves at the age of 30. Does not get inherited 

property of father, even if gets, the same is destroyed. Fond of roaming around 

unnecessarily. Mentally disturbed. Gets company of selfish friends. Difficult to get 

success in politics, interested in philosophy. Gets honour and wealth from govt. Not in 
good term with brothers. Likely to face defeat. 


106 A Text Book of Astrology 


Ifaspected by malefic - comfort of conveyance normal. If exalted/ in own sign/ aspected 
by benefic - honour by Govt. in old age. Ifwith Venus - Raj yog. Ifwith Mars - death 
after falling from high place or may be an accident. Ifin sign Scorpio - heat in the body 
and burning sensation in hands. 


In female horoscope - difficult life, problem to self and mother. Heat in body and heart, 
Heavy menses, No charm on the face, Health normal, hatred from opposite sex, Big 
and long teeth, interested in sculpture, wife of senior officer, less number of children. 


Fifth House: 

Angry disposition, death of first son. Normally one or at the most two sons. Status of 
one of the son higher than the native. Problems in childhood, wealth in young age. 
Interested in theatre, cinema etc. Fond of speculative activities, hiking, and trekking. 
Stomach disorders, intelligent, accumulates wealth by his own efforts. Expert in Tantra 
mantra. cheat, fraudulent, heart trouble. Devotee of Lord Shiva. 


If Sun with Rahu/ Ketu —death of sons due to Sarpa Dosha. Ifin own sign - death of 
first child or abortion. Ifin moveable sign - happiness through progeny. If in dual sign- 
loss of progeny. If with or aspected by malefic planets - more female issues. If with or 
aspected by benefic - male progeny, If with Moon or Jupiter- normal happiness through 
progeny. Ifin sign Cancer - possibility of having progeny through second marriage. If 
in Sagittarius sign along with Jupiter — wealth in abundance. If in own sign and Jupiter 
is posited in 11"house, wealthy. If benefic- speculation gains. 


In female horoscope - No male progeny, intelligent, problems with first child, famous, 
scholar, bold, courteous, bulky face, obedient of parents, leader in females, disciplined, 
charming speech. 


Sixth House : 


Destroyer of enemies, expenditure on friends and person connected with govt., problem 
to the maternal side. Injured by four legged airmails. Good health, problem of gall 
bladder/ kidney stones, gastric troubles, kidney problems. Luck favours at the age of 
23. Bad luck for maternal uncle, high status, famous, wealth, meritorious. Mental 
problems, fond of eating good food, very sexy. Teeth get damaged by wood or stone. 


If with benefic or aspected by benefic- excellent health. If Sun is weak - weak and 
short lived. If in Taurus, Scorpio or Aquarius signs ailments of throat, heart and back 
bone. Ifin Gemini, Virgo, or Pisces sign- cough and T.B. If in Cancer, Libra and 
Capricorn signs - gastric troubles, arthritis, stomach disorders. If in Sagittarius sign 
with Mercury - enjoys very high status in society. 


In female horoscope - wealthy, destroyer of enemies, enemity, quarrelsome, stomach 
disorder, gastric trouble; dehydration, good looking, good character, religious, extremely 
popular, lucky, successful in politics. 


A Text Book of Astrology 107 


Seventh House : 


Hindrance in marriage, problems with spouse, grieved, mentally disturbed. Possibility 
of second marriage, venereal disease, piles, fistula. Fond of opposite sex, spouse 
priggish, insulted by spouse. Profit and loss in business, wanders aimlessly, problem 
from govt. side, wicked spouse. Long separation from spouse. Profit in partnership 
business. Help from yantra power, fame in society and war. Good income in the age of 
24, foreign travels at the age of 25. Involved in activities against Govt., no happiness 
from conveyance, gets name and fame everywhere. 


If sun is debilitated- marriage not possible before 24 years. If exalted- educated and 
intelligent spouse. If malefic or in enemy sign - characterless spouse. If strong or in 
own sign - single marriage. Ifin Capricorn sign - problem with spouse. If with Saturn 
- spouse of doubtful chastity. If with Rahu - loss of wealth in company of females. If 
with Moon and aspected by Satur - thorough corrupt. If with Jupiter - enjoys good 
health, enjoys all material comforts, handsome, rich, fond of jewels. If with Venus- 
characterless spouse with the consent of native. 


Eighth House: 

Short life, cheat, cunning, always with mental worries. Short tempered, impatient, and 
wealthy. Fond of having sexual relation with foreigners. Drunkard, ill health, fond of 
non- veg food. Loss of money in theft or wealth is destroyed due to native's laziness. 
Beloved of fair sex, venereal diseases, widower, fire-accidents. Fear of firearms. Gets 
money through spouse, problem in right eye, children suffer from ill health, loss of 
wealth, friends and life. Chances of untimely death during the age of 30-33 years, 
unsuccessful till the age of 33, suffering equivalent to death at the age of 3, head injury 
at the age of 10. Unnecessary arguments with colleagues, Death of husband before 
the death of wife. 


If with benefic planets - no head injury. If in enemy's sign- death due to electric shock, 
snake bite or poison. Ifin male sign - chastity of wife doubtful. If exalted or in own sign 
- long life. 


In female horoscope - widow, sexy, fear of theft and fire. Ifaspected by Mars death 
due to fire is certain even if aspected by benefices. Train accident, fond of travelling, 
settles in foreign country, ill- health. No comforts, poor, bad-deeds, injury or wound in 
the body, tendency of high blood pressures. Playful, deprived of husband's attention. If 
Sun is in own sign - barren or sterile. Ifwith Mars and Venus - involved into prostitution. 
Ifwith Venus - Characterless. If with Saturn and Venus or with Mars and Venus - either 
characterless or ascetic provided the difference in longitudes of these planets is not 
much. 


108 A Text Book of Astrology 


Ninth House: 

Happy, father short- lived, difference of opinion with father, donor, ascetic, devotee, 
leader, astrologer, loss of fame, opponent, landlord, lucky, progress with the help of 
others, long - lived, ill health during childhood, prosperous in adulthood, happiness 
from conveyance & servants, full benefit of human life. 


If exalted or in own sign - father long- lived. If debilitated - worries and asceticism, If 
malefic or in enemy's sign - harmful for father. If exalted -very lucky, prosperous, luck 
will help at every stage in life. If with Moon - wealthy, powerful personality. If in Sagittarius 
sign with Mercury- benefic results. 


In female horoscope - religious, loss of fortune, fantasies, asceticism, large number 
of enemies, happy in middle age but unhappy in old age. Harmful if debilitated. 


Tenth House: 


Being digbali gives high status in government, intelligent, govt. recognizes his hard 
work, problems to mother, own- relatives become opponents, govt. service must, 
excellent behavior, recognition from govt., generous, enjoys the life, all types of happiness, 
happiness from progeny and conveyance, angry- disposition, expenditure, progress in 
politics, successful administrator, happiness from father & relatives, full of the jewels 
and gems, full benefit of human life, ill health in old age. Separation from near relation 
or from very dear object at the age of 19. Fame in education after the age of 18. 
Suffering to father at the age of 28. Fortunate at the age of 30. 


Ifin own sign - respect by govt. Iflord of Trikona houses - Healthy wealthy. If debilitated 
-characterless. If in sign Taurus -successful in agriculture. If in sign Cancer- profit 

through water travel. Ifin sign Aries or Leo - hunter, violent, builds religious place. If 

with/ aspected by malefic - sinner. If aspected by any three planets - famous, close to 

king. Ifin sign Taurus with Mercury - wealthy. Iflord of 10" house and Saturn are in 3° 

house - respect, healthy, becomes very famous at an early age. 


In female horoscope - recognition by govt., devoid of happiness from father, ascetic, 
always suffering from ill health, interest in dancing and singing, priggish, charitable, 
progeny. 

Eleventh House: 


Wealthy, long- lived, no sufferings in life, income from govt., sudden gains, enemies 
are afraid. Officer in bank, treasury, number of enemies - even then victorious. People 
obey him, beautiful and prosperous wife, learned, stomach - troubles, trust worthy, 
children create problems, eliminates all malefic effects if birth during daytime. Gets 
conveyance at the age of 25. High status interested in singing. leader, very beautiful 
eyes, not helpful for elder brother. 


A Text Book of Astrology 109 


fin own sign - income through govt., animals, litigation or thieves. Iflord of 4" house - 
all material comforts and wealth. If weak - malefic results. If in Sagittarius sign or 
aspected by Moon or Jupiter- marriage with girl of high family. 


In female horoscope - prosperous, recognition from govt., govt. service or serving in 
bank or treasury. Gains, comforts, happiness from progeny, artist, self-reliant, with 
sons and grandsons, proficient in various arts, praised by relatives and brothers, 
abortions. 


Twelfth House: 


Sinner, corrupt, eyes trouble, bodyache, lazy, mentally sick, journeys, poverty, settles 
in foreign country or foreign travel must, opponent of father, weak eyesight, financial 
loss, fine, penalty, imposition of tax, no son, habit of stealing, loss at the age of 28 to 

32, disease of private parts at the age of 36, victorious, loss during travel, trouble to 

uncle or does not maintain cordial relation with uncle, unreligious, deformity of some 

organ, having illicit relation with other ladies, hunter of birds. Ailments of thigh, wife 

impotent. 


If exalted - progeny. lfweak -fear of penalty, bondage from govt., loss of wealth, may 
have to leave own country. If with malefic planets- number of journeys, extravagant, No 
marital happiness. !fSun a benefic planet or exalted - separation from brothers. If with 
Saturn and Moon - bankrupt. Ifwith lord of 9"" house - fortunate due to father. If with 
Moon - eyesight of both the eyes weak or may become blind. If in Virgo sign - life 
more than 75 years. 


In female horoscope - angry, extravagant, weak eye- sight, settles in foreign country 
or foreign travel, impolite, expenditure in bad deeds, passionate, fond of liquor, non- 
vegetarian food. Chastity doubtful. 


MOON 

First House: 

Wealthy, elegant, handsome, attractive personality, illness related to cold, pneumonia, 
epilepsy, number of children, fear from water, fond of wandering, charm, attracts 
opposite sex, liked by friends, suffers from ailment of walking and speaking during 
sleep, whimsical, mediator, secret planner, interest in medical field. Confident, learns 
some art before doing main occupation, frequent transfers, changes in residence. Ill 
health at the age of 27. 


If in sign Aries, Taurus or Cancer - benefic results. If of Krishna Paksha - one son 
must. If of Krishna Paksha but very weak - malefic, headache, injury from vehicle or 
animal. If exalted or debilitated - wealthy. If in Leo sign - position of authority in 


110 A Text Book of Astrology 


committee or society. If in Capricorn sign- lazy but interested in opposite sex. If in 
Aquarius sign - bulky body, hard worker. Ifin Sagittarius sign - knowledge of religion. 
Ifin sign Aries, Leo or Sagittarius -impatient. Ifin Libra sign - learned. If debilitated - 
ill health and deligent. If in Aries or Scorpio or Cancer or Aquarius sign and also with 
Venus and aspected by malefic - illicit relation with number of females. If Moon is 
weak - eyes trouble, poor, disgraceful, deaf and dumb, neurological problems. If lord 
of Moon's sign is in kendra and aspected by Saturn - unlucky yoga. If with Mars - 
wealth does not leave company. Weak Moon in kendra always bestows good results. 


In female horoscope - ill health, charming, peace loving, prosperous, if Moon is strong 
suffers from epilepsy, marriage at early age. IfMoon is of Shukla- Paksha - Extremely 
beautiful. If of Krishna Paksha-poor, ill health, quarrelsome, dirty clothes. If Moon is 
with Mars —problemin menstruation, romantic. If in Aries, Scorpio, Cancer or Aquarius 
sign and aspected by malefic planet- having illicit relation with other males. If Sun is 
in 11" house and Mercury is in 10" house - becomes queen. 


Second House: 

Number of sons, happy, enjoys the life, good health, weakness for women, enjoys with 
family, beautiful, likes foreign land, endurance, fortunate, wealthy, brown hairs, red 

eyes, talkative. Luck helps at the age of 27. Enjoys company of beautiful females, 

charm attracts opposite sex, wealth stays permanently at home, stammers, Loss of 

money through sister or daughter. 


If with Mars - poor, skin - disease, both the planets become incapable of giving good 

results. Ifwith benefic planets - financial gain at the age of 27. If with lord of 2" house 

-Rajyoga. If Moon is weak — stammers, financially week, stupid, indifferent in behavior. 
If debilitated -sorrow, poor. Ifin Scorpio or Capricorn sign - malefic. If week Moon is 

aspected by Mercury - loss of hard earned assets. If alone in Aquarius sign - recovery 

of lost money, sound financial position after marriage. If in Taurus sign- conveyance. If 
in quadruped sign ~-four wheeler conveyance (car). If with Mercury - eyes trouble. If in 

Gemini sign along with Jupiter- Rajyoga, co-borns are very happy. 

In female horoscope - prosperous, progeny, benefic for father and husband, good 

character, polite, very devoted to husband, has her own principles and ways, devotee, 
charitable, throat problem specially Thyroid certain. 

Third House: 

Income through own efforts, Weakness for women but never gets defamed, Religious, 
Famous, Disposition is happy and cheerful, Believer of God, sweat tongue, Happiness 


A Text Book of Astrology 411 


of Brothers/ Sons /Friends, settles in foreign country, Learned, Protects religion, Goes 
abroad from 27%h to 30th year of age. Penalised by Govt. due to crime committed or 
financial loss at the age of 24. Breast-fed by lady other than mother, co-born at the age 
of 5. Cough, frequent changes in business, earns money through his own efforts. 


Ifwith Rehu/Ketu - courageous but miser. If exalted - pleasure seeker. If debilitated - 
malefic, miser, quarrelsome. Ifwith Venus - special benefic results during main/ sub 
period of Venus. Ifwith lord of Lagna and lord of 6th house - breathing problems, throat 
problem or piles. Ifwith Mars - intelligent, wealth, high status, enjoys all comforts of 
life. If with Mercury - poet, artist, wealthy. 


In female horoscope - happy, happiness from co-borns, beautiful, journeys, sexy but 
secretive, miser, ingratitude, problem with children, children not capable, cough and 
gastric problems. Harsh, gets angry very soon, bad company. 


Fourth House: 

Desire of getting high status, happiness from spouse and son, Donor, happy, good 
health, generous, intelligent, lucky after marriage, wealth, facility for conveyance, suffers 
from ailments of cold, problems in old age, frequent changes in profession, Profession 
of water borne things like fish, conch-shell, pearls etc. profitable, Devotee, keeps the 
females happy, lives in palatial house. Marine trade, manufacturer or trading of patented 
medicines, perfumes, oils, power etc. 


If having directional strength - high status. Ifin Sagittarius sign - troubles upto 4th year 
of age. If strong -fame, successful in politics, money flows towards him automatically, 
impressive personality. Ifin enemy sign - quarrelsome, devoid of mother's happiness, 
happy in childhood, sufferings in adulthood, dispute with co-borns and near relations. 
If with Jupiter - very wealthy. If of Poornima - definitely enjoying high status. If exalted 
and aspected by Jupiter - senior officer. If with Venus - having contacts with mean 
and wicked people. If with Mercury - sufferings, does not get the benefic results of 
Moon. Mother suffers at the age of 36, mother short-lived. If with Mars- wealthy provided 
Saturn is not posited in 4th or 10house. 


In female horoscope - prosperous, conveyance, suffers from cough, cold, and chest - 
pain. Water injury, gets costly jewelry, proficient in many arts, fond of gems and jewelry, 
religious, fond of meat, enjoys sex. If Moon is weak - fear, sick. If in Taurus sign and 
aspected by Jupiter-wife of senior officer. 

Fifth House: 

Male progeny, happiness from progeny, good income, fame, fond of jewels, landlord, 
earns by lending money on interest, deligent, playful, idealistic and sets up his own 
standards, good qualities, speculative gains, impressive while walking, advisor in 


112 A Text Book of Astrology 


government service, tantrik, fulfills his desires by worshipping goddesses like Durga, 
Kali etc., His wife has mark between breasts, business of milk and milk products 
highly beneficial. 


Ifin Cancer sign - more daughters than sons. Ifin Cancer sign and Mars is also in 11 * 
house - extremely rich. If debilitated - suffers from ailment of water being retained in 
stomach. IfMoon is weak and malefics are in 1:, 7", or 12 houses - unmarried or 
widower or divorcee. If in Taurus or Cancer sign -gains in speculation. If in Sagittarius- 
faith in religion. If exalted - happiness from wife and son. If Moon is weak - devoid of 
happiness from spouse, daughters playful. If aspected by Saturn —cheat. If aspected 
by or in conjunction with malefics-childless, wicked, possibility of progeny possible 
after age of 52. Ifwith Jupiter - Moon not in a position of giving benefic results. (This is 
an exception of Gaj Kesri Yoga). Ifin Taurus, Leo, Virgo or Scorpio signs - hardly one 
or two children. 


in female horoscope - intelligent, prosperous, beautiful, obedient of husband, able 
children, good conduct, having number of servants, wealthy, excellent behavior. If Moon 
is weak or aspected by malefic - malefic results. If Moon is in Cancer sign - more 
number of daughters. 


Sixth house: 


Ailments of mouth, opponent of king but respected in society, enemies are afraid of 
him, short lived, cough, extravagant, eyes - trouble, quarrelsome, injury from water, 
stomachache, sexual, masturbation, dehydration, does not feel hungry (Dyspepsia). 
Suffers at the age of 8 or 23. Sexual intercourse with widow at the age of 36. Not 
devoted to father, devoid of mother's attention, does get happiness from maternal 
uncle, asthmatic. 


If with Venus - expenditure on females, venereal disease, If with Rahu or Ketu - 
dyspepsia, fear from water, retention of water in stomach. If full Moon - long-lived, 
cough and windy problems, dyspepsia, sexual, number of enemies, promotion in 
service. If benefic - -good health, well built and strong. If Moon is weak-ill health, 
sufferings. If exalted - throat troubles. If debilitated - piles. If in Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius 
or Pisces signs - cough. Ifwith Saturn - liver enlargement. If of Krishna Paksha and 
with malefic - tuberculosis. If with Jupiter - weak eyesight. If in Capricorn sign and 
Satum is in 12 house - excess expenditure. If with lord of 3" house - breast feeding 
by lady other than own mother. 


In female horoscope - ill health from childhood, quarrelsome, short lived, opponent, 
dispute, number of enemies, playful, financial crisis, impolite, injured by husband. If 
Moon is strong in Taurus or Cancer sign - all comforts in life. 


A Text Book of Astrology 113 


Seventh House : 


Happiness from spouse, gains in trading, attracted by opposite sex specially if Moon 
is of Krishna Paksha, fond of delicious food, greedy, civilized leader, judge, sea travel, 
promptness, love marriage, handsome, spouse also beautiful, attraction between 
husband and wife, frequent changes in the profession, sudden financial gains from 
wife or son, fond of travelling, speculative gains, gains from things produced in water, 
gain in partnership. Business in grocery, milk and milk products, grain, restaurant, 
commission agent, insurance always profitable. 


Ifwith Venus - more than one marriage (legal or illegal) or extra- marital relations. If 
exalted -two marriages, luck will help only after marriage. If debilitated and with Rahu 
/ Ketu-insomnia. In signs other than Taurus and Cancer - handsome, lucky, loss of 
married life. If debilitated or in enemy's sign - spouse wicked / quarrelsome / having 
extra marital relations. If of Krishna Paksha - greedy, fond of sweets, sexual. If in 
Taurus -most sexual. Ifweak in Taurus sign - ailments of semen and urine. If weak and 
afflicted with malefics - spouse having ill health. Ifin odd sign - harsh. If with Saturn or 
aspected by Saturn - devoid of marital happiness, delay in marriage, spouse older 
than him, without son, spouse having extra marital relations. If with Jupiter and Mercury 
- land lord, all comforts in life. Ifin Taurus, Sagittarius, Aquarius or Pisces sign - early 
marriage. If with exalted Jupiter — very wealthy. 


In female horoscope - gets excellent husband, dear of husband, intelligent, prosperous, 
ordinary in appearance, religious, soft spoken, fame, cunning, If Moon is weak - 
deprived of happiness from husband. If Moon is with Saturn - remarriage. 


Eighth House: 


Ill health, chronic diseases, diabetes, cough. Intelligent, gains in business, talkative, 
priggish, jealous, wicked, corrupt, makes fool of others, short lived, problems with 
government, fear from water, fever, inflammation, serious sufferings at the age of 36 
and 40. Problems at the age of 6 and 10. Doctors are always present in the house 
because of continuous ill health. Rheumatism, fear from thieves, leaves motherland, 
servants leak out secrets of house. Loss of wealth at the age of 44. 


Ifin own /friendly sign - asthmatic. Ifwith benefic planets - gains from partnership. If 
with Jupiter- fear from water at the age of 32. Ifafflicted with Mars and Venus - death 
due to drowning, untimely death, sudden death of mother. If in Taurus or Cancer sign 
with benefics or aspected by a benefic - longlived. If afflicted with malefic - fear of 
sudden death. If Moon is weak - short lived. If in watery sign and with Jupiter and 
aspected by malefic - tuberculosis. If with Saturn - liver disease. If weak and of Krishna 
Paksha and with malefic —- Tuberculosis. 


114 A Text Book of Astrology 


In female horoscope - grieved, malefic, short lived, ill health, frail constitution, angry, 
eyes troubles, wicked, deformed breasts. If Moon is in own sign/ exalted or in friendly 
sign - not malefic. If with malefic or aspected by malefic - possibility of death in 
childhood. If Moon is with Jupiter - malefic results. 


Ninth House: 


Good income in administrative services, get all comforts, happiness from friends / 
sons / near relations, fame in society, fortunate in the young age. Sound health, son 
has chest pain throughout the life / cough/ pneumonia, financial gains, donor, ascetic, 
hard worker, famous for judgement, playful, intelligent, bookworm, brave, few brothers, 
successful in all ventures, happiness from charming females, pilgrimage at the age of 
20. Happiness from progeny, gains in partnership, leader in public, devotee, devotee 
of father, charm attracts opposite sex, gains in tourism, lucky at the age of 24. 


Ifin male sign - devoid of elder brother and younger sister. Ifin fixed sign - devoid of 
elder sister and younger brother. Iffull Moon with strong planets - extremely fortunate, 
father long lived. If with benefics- long lived. lfwith Venus - wicked spouse. If weak or 
debilitated - poor, lacking qualities, atheist. If aspected or afflicted with a malefic - 
unlucky. If with malefics- sexual relations with wife of preceptor or with a female older 
in age. 


In female horoscope-religious, social, happy, prosperous, happiness from parents, 
intelligent, understands psychology of others, clever, lucky, gets appreciation, good 
sons and servants. If Moon is weak or debilitated or in enemy's sign - devoid of spiritual 
and material comforts. If Moon is benefic and strong - good results. 


Tenth House: 


Serious disposition, happiness from coborns and near relations, honour from 
government, devoid of happiness form first child, proficient, generous, businessman, 
famous, brings laurels for family, always helpful to others, gains from government, 
winner, financial gains at the age of 27 and 43. Business of ornamental articles, doctor, 
manufacturer of medicines. Father suffers from 36* to 40" year of age, fortunate at the 
age of 24, frequent changes in profession and transfers in service, shrewd spouse, 
sufferings in infancy, earns in the business of prostitution, gains from females of good 
families. 


If afflicted with malefics - cold and cough. If with Ketu - Rajyog. If full Moon - Rajyog 
(Definite). If in enemy's sign or in the sign of malefic planet- ill heath, unfortunate. If 
with malefic - sinner, defamation due to relation with widow at the age of 27. If in 
moveable sign-instability in business. If with Mars - tremendous loss. If with Saturn - 
loss in business. IfinAries, Cancer, Libra or Capricorn sign - number of changes in 


A Text Book of Astrology 115 


profession. If with Mercury - sufferings in old age. If with Jupiter - definitely a gazetted 
officer in government. If with exalted Jupiter - very wealthy. 


In female horoscope - prosperous, Rajyog, wealth, happy family, enjoying high status, 
good conduct, famous, full with jewelry, main person in family, donor, religious. 


Eleventh House: 


Fame, gains from mother, honoured by government, position of authority, permanent 
rich, more female progeny, good qualities, happy, liked by everybody, long-lived, likes 
foreign countries, proficient in government work, service in bank or treasury, happiness 
from sons, comforts from servants, happiness from spouse, minister, adviser, secretary, 
astrologer, historian. Financial gains at the age of 16, 20, 24, 45, honour at the age of 
27. Gets son at the age of 50, successful in business and politics. If birth in nights - 
removes malefic effect of other planets. Bold in speech, clever, handsome, always 
adopts right path, comforts of different type of vehicles. 


Ifin own sign - comforts of vehicles, sea- travel. lfweak /in enemy's sign / debilitated 
- ill health, devoid of comforts. If with Venus - comforts of vehicle, educated. If with 
Saturn-Rajyog. 


In female horoscope - happy, wealthy, prosperous, sudden gains, diplomatic, donor, 
polite, enjoys good health. If Moon is weak — even then good results. If Moon is of 
Krishna Paksha - slight decrease in benefic results. 


Twelfth House: 


Slender body, lucky due to mother, fear of enemies, eye troubles- specially in left eye, 
expenditure for good cause. Does not have permanent friendship with females, 
unsuccessful in fulfilling desires, playful, injury near eyes, expenditure in pleasure 
seeking, diligent, lazy, sad, defamed, fond of food, handicapped, wicked, husband of 
ill wife. Educated, fear of water at the age of 45, no happiness from maternal or paternal 
side, defamation due to contact with females, people do not have faith in him, occult 
science. 


If in Aquarius sign-short-lived. If in Cancer or Pisces sign - Rajyog, knowledge of 
mantras, speculator, suffers from cold. Ifafflicted with Mars and Sun-dispute in family. 
Penalty from government, prison, loss in gambling. Ifin Scorpio or Capricorn signs - 
cheat, wicked. Ifstrong - service, wicked boss. If with benefic - intelligent, good deeds. 
Ifweak / with malefic/in enemy's sign - sinner, loss of left eye, no salvation. If Moon is 
weak - angry, deformity in the body. !faspected by malefics-prison. Father changes 
residence in the main period of Moon. 


116 A Text Book of Astrology 


In female horoscope - weak eyesight, extravagant; expenditure in pleasure seeking, 
handicapped, windy ailments, changing nature, does not have any principles, always 
suffering from ill health. 


If Moon is in Aquarius sign in any of the house - beautiful, donor, famous, prosperous, 
wealthy, enjoys good health. 


MARS 
First House: 


Pushful and aggressive, stubborn, fear from iron/fire/wooden-stick, sufferings from 
spouse and children, ambitious, ailment of private parts, wealthy, famous, delay in 
marriage till 27* year of age, widower, charm attracts opposite sex, never hesitates to 
pick up a quarrel even with boss, blood-disease, mole on private parts, frequent travel, 
stomach and teeth trouble in the childhood, head-injury, ill at the age of 5, angry, 
suffering, difficult to convince him. If at the Sandhi of 1*tand 2"? house -definite throat 
problem, delay in achieving the objectives, irritation in the navel, no endurance to cope 
with prolonged hardships. Devoid of happiness from mother, very hard worker but 
unlucky. 


IfSaturn is in 1*, 4th, 5", 7", or 8", houses - never caught while accepting bribe. If in 
Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Libra, Scorpio or Pisces sign - spouse suffers. If in own sign or 
debilitated - gets very important position. Ifwith Sun or Saturn -jealous of mother. If 
with malefics/ benefics - short lived, eyes trouble, windy problems. If in Scorpio or 
Capricorn sign - healthy, long lived, famous, If in Cancer or Pisces sign - wicked, 
drunkard. Ifaspect of Moon of Libra sign - cruel. If with lord of 2" house - ear trouble. 
Ifwith Rahu - hydrocele. Ifaspected by Saturn and Sun - small pox, handicapped. 


In female horoscope - head injury, naughty, mentally disturbed, neurological problem, 
eye troubles, priggish, blood - disease, devoid of marital happiness, separation from 
husband, wicked. Ifon Sandhi of 1% and 2"? house-throat problems. If aspected my 
malefics-throat trouble, polio, chances of fall from higher place. If Mars is in Aries, 
Scorpio or Capricorn sign - benefic results. 


Second House: 


Complicated nature, interrupts while other person is talking, harsh language, devoid 
of wealth, does not maintain cordial relations in family, loser, deligent, eyes and ear 
troubles, loss of wealth, loss in the family, fear of theft/ fire/ injury. Sudden death in 
family, ugly, illiterate, in service of wicked persons, gains in the business of metals and 
medicines. Chances of getting employment at the age of 19, ill health at the age of 9, 
throat problems, fond of non-veg food, poor, enemity of wicked people, fond of argument 
and debate, does not appreciate the importance of things, gains in the business of 
civil contractor/ machinery/ agriculture/coal/marine trade. Donot succeed as astrologers 


A Text Book of Astrology 117 


as malefic results predicted by them are correct whereas benefic results predicted by 
them are seldom true. 


If debilitated - poor. Ifin own sign/exalted - beautiful eyes, educated, sudden gains. If 
in Scorpio sign - Rajyog, inheritance. Ifin enemy's sign/aspected by malefics - eyes 
trouble. If with lord of 6* house - eyes trouble. If with Moon - loss of wealth. If in Virgo 
sign with Rahu - owner of house in the main period of Mars and sub - period of Sun. 


In female horoscope-difficulty in childbearing, loss of wealth/ family, harsh, defect in 
speech, quarrelsome, throat problem, looks older than her age, long lived, very sexy, 
bald headed, ill health, wicked, poor, dependant on others, jealous, liver problems, 
gambler husband. 


Third House: 


Most unfavourable, ill health, irritable, limited income, expenditure much more than 
income, sufferings are endless, brave, aggressive, devoid of co-borns, harsh, ascetic, 
settles in foreign country, frequent travel, devoid of happiness from younger brother. 
Cheat, co-born at the age of 12" and 13year. Unfavourable for younger co-borns, 
co-borns short lived, ear-trouble, danger from vehicle, does not maintain cordial relations 
with relatives and neighbors, great problem by signing a document or by giving an 
evidence. 


If with Rahu - womanizer. If without aspect of benefics - wicked wife. If in own sign or 
with benefics - serious disposition, famous. Ifin Gemini sign - long lived, ear troubles, 
happiness from brothers. Ifwith malefics or aspected by malefics - unfavourable for 
elder co-borns. Ifin Aries sign - astrologer, mathematician, devoid of wealth, mental 
agony, madness. Ifwith Jupiter and Saturn or with Jupiter and aspected by Saturn - 
ailments of ears, deafness. Ifwith Saturn - ear troubles, mental agony. 


In female horoscope - ascetic, healthy, devoid of happiness from brother, sportswoman, 
fond of travel, settles in foreign country, runs away from home, lucky, reputed, wicked 
sons, serves the saints, impressive, jovial. If Mars is in own sign or exalted - 
prosperous. If Saturn is in 11"house and Jupiter aspects ascendant- becomes queen. 


Fourth House: 


Devoid of happiness from mother and sister, gains from government service, beneficial, 
settles in foreign country, progeny, opponent of near relatives, sufferings to mother, 
heart trouble, danger from fire and thief. Friendship with dark coloured persons, wife 
characterless, either wife can kill him or he kills his own wife, Gradual progress in life, 
devoid of pleasures in earlier stages of life, differences with father for which mother is 
responsible, gains from land even if there is aspect of Mars on fourth house, 
unsuccessful in politics, unsuccessful in service, sexual, number of sons, obstinate 
mother, makes use of every opportunity that arises, fear from enemies, quarrel at 


118 A Text Book of Astrology 


home, sufferings in old age, never stable, never gets mental peace, dark complexion. 


Ifin Sagittarius or Pisces sign - gain from foreign country, benefic. If in Aries, Scorpio 
or Capricorn sign - happiness from land and vehicle. Ifin Libra sign - auspicious. If in 
Leo or Capricorn sign - marital happiness. If with Rahu/ Ketu - suicidal tendencies in 
main or sub-period of Mars. Ifin Cancer sign - chest infection, asthma, T.B. 


In female horoscope - sufferings to mother, pain in chest and heart, devoid of happiness 
of younger brother, angry, pessimistic, devoid of happiness, bulky body, unsuccessful 
in fulfilling desires, unreligious, poor, wicked, weakness for opposite sex, sexual, 
domestic problems, greedy, immoral. 


Fifth House: 


Always feels hungry, wicked, sinner, angry, number of abortions, deceitful, ill health, 
slender, body, playful. Sufferings from progeny, obstacles in education, deligent, 
marriage does not takes place even after everything is settled, inauspicious, backbiter, 
penalty from government, ailments of private parts. Loss of co-born at the age of 5, 
danger from fire at the age of 6. Ambitious, feels jealous, cannot accumulate wealth, 
cough and windy problems. Immediately caught while accepting bribe. 


If in own sign or exalted - one son suffers from ill health who is also ugly. If Rahu in 
Lagna - famous due to melodious voice and singing since childhood. If aspected by 
Saturn and Sun - handicapped. If aspected by Jupiter or Venus - loss of first progeny. 
Ifin Cancer sign - son after second marriage. Ifwith malefics - ill health, loss of son, 
wicked. If with Saturn - mentally ill. If with lord of 8th house - sinner, brave, adopted 
son. Ifin Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius or Pisces sign - progeny must. If with Saturn or Venus 
or Saturn or Ketu - suffers continuously from T.B. 


In female horoscope — sinner, characterless, atheist, obstacles in education, asthma, 
begets wicked sons/daughters, enjoys the company of wicked people, harmful for co- 
borns. Ifin even signs or exalted - only one son, abortions, problems in delivery. If in 

Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn - malefic effects are not felt. 


Sixth House: 


Throat troubles, enemies are defeated inspite of being large in numbers, devoid of 

happiness of maternal uncle, financial gains, extravagant, feels hungry, angry, debtor, 
officer in police or military, ailments of blood, surgery, son at the age of 24, good food, 

relations with number of females, more than one marriage. Dispute at the age of 21 or 
27, danger from enemy, daughter at the age of 27. Comforts of vehicle, fortunate, loss 
from servants, officers are not caught while accepting bribe. 


If aspected by malefics - accident. If exalted- fortunate at the age of 18. If debilitated - 
ill health, wicked, cheat, death in fight or in war, piles. If in Gemini or Virgo and not 


A Text Book of Astrology 119 


aspected by benefics - leprosy. Ifin Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, or Aquarius sign - ailments 
of urine, heart and throat. Ifin Aries, Cancer or Capricorn sign - danger from fire, loss 
due and servants. Ifin Cancer or Pisces sign - pleasure seeker, brings disgrace and 
family. Ifin Aries - inauspicious. 


In female horoscope - sound health, opponent, quarrelsome, dispute, destroyer of 
enemies, intelligent husband, dense hair, well educated, inauspicious for maternal 
relations. If Mars is very weak - ill health. 


Seventh House: 


Wanders from place to place, suffers from enemies, death of wife at young age, ill 
health from childhood, penalized by government, harsh, foolish, poor, jealous, wife 
dominates, obstacle in marriage till the age of 27, more than one marriage, sexual 
relations with foolish or barren female, unnecessary worries, wife does not give due 
respect, does not get fame in business. Wife suffers from gynaecological problems, 
danger from fire at the age of 16. Danger to spouse at the age of 37. 


If with Saturn - unnatural sex. If with Ketu - sexual relations with barren or with female 
in menstruation. If combust or debilitated - most inauspicious. If exalted - prosperous, 
long lived. If with benefics - widower. If with enemy planets - death of more than one 
spouse. Ifexalted or in own sign - wealthy, happy, only one marriage but chastity of 
wife is doubtful. If with malefic planets - backache, more than one marriage. If debilitated 
or in enemy's sign - ill health, sinner. Ifin Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn sign - marital 
happiness. If with Moon and Venus - pleasure seeker. If with Moon - gains in 
speculation, gambling, war. Ifin Cancer sign and with Saturn - beneficial and sincere 
spouse. If in Pisces sign - widower. If with Saturn - devoid of spouse - progeny, 
mentally ill, suffers. If with Venus - ailments in legs. If with Jupiter, separation from 
spouse. 


In female horoscope - widow, enemity with spouse, more than one marriage, irregular 
menses, ailments of stomach, very sexy, extra - marital affairs ( definite), ugly, wicked 
devoid of happiness of spouse, plumply body. If under influence of benefics - not 
widow. If Mars in the Aries or Scorpio sign or in Navamsa of Mars - Vaginal disease. 
Widow in earlier age provided husband is not suffering from manglik Dasha. 


Eighth House: 


Enemity due to bad behaviour, obstacles, fond of alcohol, licentious, harsh, eye-trouble, 
financial crises, piles, inflammation, injury on the lower position of back, angry 
disposition, death due to fire, surgery, fortunate after marriage, cannot accumulate 
wealth (zero savings), sufferings at the age of 22 and 35, sufferings similar to death at 
the age of 25. Seriously ill during the age of 54-56, enemity even with co-borns, chronic 
disease and medical treatment is of no use, eye trouble, ailments of blood, wicked, 


120 A Text Book of Astrology 


never caught while accepting bribe, always feels hungry. 


Ifin own sign or with benefics - sound health, long- lived. Ifwith malefics - suffers from 
T.B. or windy problems. If exalted - benefic. If weak- piles, disease of genital organs, 
bleeding. If debilitated and in enemy's sign - death in water. If exalted - wealthy. If with 
Moon - injury from water. If with Sun - suicidal tendency. If with Sun and Saturn - 
causes death. 


In female horoscope - wicked, piles, injury, accident, wanders from place to place, 
extra- marital affairs (definite), injury in the lower portion of back, smuggling, dacoity, 
devoid of happiness, ill health, devoid of husband, poor, sufferings, violent, death due 
to wound or injury or even husband dies, abortions, widow, separation from husband. 


Ninth House: 


Intelligent, wicked, does not get reward of hard work, jealous, priggish, angry, officer 
or leader, famous, opponent of mother, financial crises, unlucky, ascetic, injury by water, 
people feel jealous of him, windy problem, sufferings to father at the age of 14. Fortunate 
after the age of 28, main person of family, devotee of lord Hanumanin the earlier birth, 
wife and self do not have elder brother, devoid of father's happiness, fear from fire and 
poison, violent, relations with preceptor's wife, fortunate in foreign land, eyes and skin 
trouble. 


Ifaspected by Sun and Saturn - handicapped. Ifin own sign - extra marital relations, 
wealth from son. If with malefics or weak planets - long life. If with benefic or with 
friendly planets - favourable results. If exalted - relations with preceptor's wife. If with 
Mercury - atheist. If with benefic planets - senior officer, hunter, honoured by 
government. Ifin Gemini, Libra or Aquarius sign - goes against principles. If in Taurus, 
Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn or Pisces sign - benefic results. Ifin Cancer sign - troubles 
of hips and back. If with Saturn - neurological problem. If with Sun - very famous. 


In female horoscope - unlucky, atheist, devoid of happiness from brother, runs away 
from home, opponent, does follow other religion, beautiful, ill health, fond of meat/ 
wine, abandoned by own people, artist, devoid of wealth, famous. 


Tenth House: 


Enjoys high status in society, brings name and fame to family, intelligent, wealthy, poet, 
happy, famous, comforts of good vehicles, landlord, long life, officer in police/military, 
senior officer, good administrator, financial gains at the age of 28, tremendous 
improvement in position after birth, fear of arms at the age of 26 or 28 or 54. Successful 
in business, title from govt., adventurous like lion, self-made, liked by females, serves 
the great people, brother long-lives, destroyer of maternal uncles, possibility of father's 
death at the age of 18 but the same will not be an obstacle in prosperity. 


A Text Book of Astrology 121 


Ifin Aries, Taurus, Virgo, Scorpio or Capricorn signs - reputed, serves the people, 
business of fire arms or arms. Ifweak - pleasure seeker, does not take responsibility. 
If with strong planets - devotee, fortunate, long life of brothers. If under the influence of 
benefics or in the sign of benefic planet - success. If under the influence of malefics - 
obstacles, problems. If with Jupiter — veryfortunate. Ifin Pisces sign with Mercury — 
salvation. If with Sun - fear of death or injury by falling from height. If with Saturn - 
employed in prison, police or military. 


In female horoscope - devoid of father's happiness, favourable results if in service, 
employed in investigation departments/ anti corruption departments. (If mars is in own 
sign or exalted - enjoys high status in these departments), has her own principles and 
ways, doubtful chastity. If Mars aspected by strong and benefic planets - important 
person in family, wife of officer of high status, helpful to others. 


Eleventh House: 


Wealthy, destroyer of enemies, gain in the business of animals, love of justice, brave, 
quarrelsome, angry, priggish, patience, ambitious, enjoys high status, does not suffer. 
Gain from government or working with army, palatial house, collections of vehicles/ 
land/ gold/copper/ coral, melodious voice, fortunate at the age of 24, loss if business 
is done from other's money, gains if own money is used, gains from business of vehicles 
and dairy products, fond of good food, always speaks truth, special gains at the age of 
24 and 25. 


If exalted - extremely fortunate. If with two benefic planets - Maha Raja Yoga. If in 
Aries, Taurus, Virgo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn sign or aspected by benefics - 
gets the help of friends. Ifhaving no benefic aspect - loss through bad characters. If 
with Saturn - employed in the prison, police or military. If Jupiter is with Saturn or 
aspect of Saturn on Mars and Jupiter - ear problem or deafness. 


In female horoscope - wealthy, prosperous, progeny, conveyance, happy, gains, no 
desires, good nature, religious, devoted to her husband, abortions. 


Twelfth House: 

Lucky due to brother, destroyer of religion, gets bad name even without doing any 
wrong thing, sadness, loss due to cheating or theft, marak of spouse or devoid of 
spouse, right eye defective, always under debt but frees himself from debt before 
death, quarrelsome, foolish, wicked, handicapped, loss due to animals or theft, 
unreliable, fear of being imprisoned, death of brother, unlucky, injured by arms, loss 
due to servants, extramarital relations, atheist, sudden death of uncle, pleasure seeker, 
sexual but devoid of marital happiness, mother and brother suffer at the age of 28. 


If with malefics - hypocrite. If with Ketu - fear of fire at home, death of wife. If in Cancer 
or Pisces sign - licentious. Ifwith Venus - wicked, bad deeds, punishment from govt., 


122 A Text Book of Astrology 


suffers at the age of 45. Ifin own sign with Saturn - death due to piles, fistula etc. If in 
Leo sign - ups and downs in life, suffers from deadly disease. 


In female horoscope - extravagant, eyes problem, foreign travel, short lived, devoid of 
marital happiness, ingratitude, devoid of qualities, expenditure for bad cause, fond of 
drinks, sexy, always angry, widow, separation, bad character. 


MERCURY 
First House: 


Intelligent, follows principles and rules, interest in religious activities, well formed body, 
cheerful, long-life, mathematician, jovial, generous, very sweet in conversation, remains 
healthy till death (however suffers from Jaundice even if it is in Mool Trikona sign), 
suffers at the age of 4, mole in the body, suffers from boils, destroys malefic effect of | 
other planets provided Mercury is strong, pilgrimage at the age of 27, always looks 
young, highly educated, fond of learning astrology, stomach ailments, fond of Arhar 
pulse. 


Ifweak - even medicine has no effect, children short lived. Ifin Capricorn sign - wicked, 
unbending. If in Gemini, Virgo, Libra, or Aquarius sign intelligent, good orator. If in 
Scorpio sign - chemist or physician. If with malefic - jaundice, ailments of bile. If 
exalted or in own sign - happiness from brother provided Rahu is not posited in 3° 
house. Ifwith Saturn -trouble in left eye. Ifin Capricorn sign - plumply body, impotent. 
Ifwith lord of 6" or 8* house - defect of semen. If in Mool Trikona sign - extremely 
happy. Ifwith lord of 2" house - orator, diplomat. If with Rahu - imaginative. 


In female horoscope- intelligent, healthy, lucky, reputed, wealthy, conveyance, employed 
in teaching job, long life, big and beautiful eyes, beautiful, prosperous, loving nature, 
soft - spoken, always speaks truth, progeny, sculpture. If Mercury in Mool Trikona sign 
and Jupiter is in 11* house - becomes a queen. 


Second House: 


Intelligent, hard worker, good orator, intellectual pursuits, agent/ advocate/ leader/ 
chartered accountant/ judge, intellectual, no wasteful expenditure, brave, fond of 
collecting many things, wealthy, long hair, progeny, honour form govt. Fortunate at the 
age of 25, wasteful expenditure at the age of 29, financial loss at the age of 26, sudden 
gain at the age of 36, sufferings at the age of 15. Logical, no patience, cannot be 
imprisoned even if involved in number of litigation cases provided Mercury is alone in 
2™ house, enjoys all comforts, donor, devotee of father, skin disease, fond of sweets. 


Ifit is lord of 1*, 7", 8th or 11*house - devoid of wealth, separation from family. If with 
malefics -wicked, uneducated, windy problems. Ifin Leo sign - benefic results in the 
main period and sub period of Mercury to the extent it is weak or afflicted with malefics. 


A Text Book of Astrology 123 


If with Venus and having aspect of benefics - successful businessman. If with Moon - 
weak eyes. If with Rahu — goodluck, helpful, brings good luck for others. If with Jupiter 
-wealthy, learned, preceptor, brave. 


In female horoscope - prosperous, famous, intelligent, influential, prosperity in family, 
agent or leader, critic, longlife, soft-spoken, donor, beautiful, serves ascetics, progeny, 
religious, obedient. 


Third House: 

Friendship with business class, interest in business, in company of brave people, 
polite, soft spoken, efficient, hard worker, fearful, palmist, writer, poet, editor, pleasure 
- seeker, fond of travel, few brothers, medium age, good co-borns, definitely leaves 
the motherland, ascetic, suffers due to son, financial gains to father at the age of 12. 
Depression and fearful during main/ sub - period of Rahu, understands secrets of 
trade, successful businessman, favourable for doctor/ judge. 


If with Mars - husband of sister suffers. If with strong planets long life. If in Gemini sign 
- author and publisher. If with Jupiter- preceptor, brave. If with Venus - good luck and 
gains from business. Ifwith Rahu - good luck, helpful to others. !fwith Ketu - it is an 
unfavourable combination and remedies of Mars are helpful. 


In female horoscope - settles in foreign land, fond of travel, happiness from brother, 
singer. dancer, poet, donor, fame, gives birth to capable children, popular, influential, 
wealthy, fame through sons, obedient, beloved of brothers, few brothers, gives 
importance to her own work. 


Fourth House: 


Intelligent, fame, honour, highly educated, devoid of paternal wealth, comfort of 
conveyance, fortunate, donor, plumply body, lazy, writer, diplomats, always ahead of 
his colleagues, knowledge of occult subjects, enjoys all comforts. Gets gifts at the age 
of 16, financial loss at the age of 22, involved in embezzlement at the age of 26. 
Friendship with people of very high status, leader or senior officer, others write whatever 
is said by him. Fond of songs and dance. 


If in Virgo sign - very happy, good education. If exalted or in own sign - deceitful, 
contact with number of females, ill during childhood. If with Moon - not capable of 
giving good results. Ifwith Rahu or Ketu or Saturn - conveyance, devoid of happiness, 
wicked. If in Pisces sign - auspicious. If debilitated or with malefics - successful in 
local politics. 


In female horoscope - expert in government work, beautiful, polite, intellectual, all types 
of comforts provided Mercury is not combust or retrograde, long life, religious, happy, 
keeps everybody happy, belongs to renowned family, comforts of servants, sexual, 
jovial. 


124 A Text Book of Astrology 


Fifth House: 


Minister or adviser, devoid of happiness of progeny, possibility of son in the old age, 
selfish, wicked, accumulates wealth, good progress. Accountant or mathematician or 
lawyer, first issue is female, learns mantras, mother suffers at the age of 5 and 16, 
financial loss at the age of 22. Gets money buried underground, first pregnancy of wife 
is destroyed, painful soeech, company of wicked, death of maternal uncle, expert in 
arguing, sufferings to father, happiness to mother, gambler and speculator, recluse, 
influential in public. 


If combust or in enemy's sign - destroyer of son. If with Rahu - speculator. If with 
Saturn - only one issue. If with malefics or aspected by malefics - pleasure seeker, 
gambler, mad progeny. If in Cancer sign - few sons. If in Scorpio sign - more it is 
weak or under affliction better will be the results during its main and sub-period. If in 
Virgo sign - maternal happiness. Ifin own sign and Moon and Mars are in 11 house 
-very wealthy. 


In female horoscope - intelligent, educated, accountant, teacher, name and fame, 
lover of music, technical education, mainly female issue, fond of argument, 
characterless, fond of travelling without any aim, few sons, quarrelsome, wicked, devoid 
of wealth, no respect for saints. 


Sixth House: 


Opponent, expenditure on study of Yantra and Mantra, quarrelsome, lazy, priggish, 

leader of opposition party, sufferings equivalent to death at the age of 37, honour from 
government, ayurvedic doctor, pure meals, fear of enemy at the age of 21, 36 and 37, 
fear of arms at age of 26 and 32. Financial gains from cousins or other near relations, 
ailments in the navel, defeat of enemies, gastric problems, gains of spiritual knowledge 
from saints, expenditure in religious and auspicious work, gain from business of gems, 
sufferings due to deceitful servants, maternal uncles have only female issues. 


If with malefic Mars - possibility of getting mad or committing suicide. If retrograde or 
with benefics-always suffers, fear from enemies. If with strong planets, head of family 
or leader of society. If debilitated or in enemy's sign - destroyer of clan or tribe. If in 
sign of benefic planets or with benefics aspected by benefics - happy, victory over 
enemies. Ifwith Mars or Saturn - attracted to the opposite sex, suicide due to females. 
Ifin Cancer sign - ailments of anus. Ifwith Saturn or Rahu or Ketu - fear of enemies. 


In female horoscope - angry, increase in number of enemies, healthy, happiness from 
progeny, independent, destroyer of enemies, impatient, sexual, helps others, short - 
lived, long hands, beautiful, pleasure seeker, proficient in work. If Mercury is aspected 
by benefics - ill health, fear of enemies. 


A Text Book of Astrology 125 


Seventh House: 


Commanding appearance, belongs to family of high status, expert in business, wealthy, 
writer, editor, religious, impotent, generous, helpful for spouse, spouse belongs to rich 
family, gets lot of dowry, extra - marital relation, relations with rich female, non - 
vegetarian food, jovial, intimate, very beautiful wife, not in a position to satisfy spouse 
during sex. 


Ifin Gemini sign and Saturn is in 4", 8th, or 12house - sudden financial gain, gain in 

speculation. Ifwith lord of 2nq house - successful businessman. If strong - relations 

with number of females. If with Jupiter or aspected by Jupiter - bold, brave, highly 

proficient, able children, writer. If with Sun-destroyer of spouse. If with benefic planets 
- facility of conveyance at the age of 24. If in Pisces sign - urinary problems. If in 

Taurus sign - death of wife. If debilitated or in enemy sign - wife deceitful and brings 

disgrace to husband. Ifin Virgo sign -very happy. Iflord of 7* house is in 2na house - 
successful businessman. If with Venus and aspected by benefic planets successful in 
business. 


In female horoscope - fully devoted husband, involved is some profession, friends, 
long life, chastity, happy, intellectual, good nature, religious, beautiful, good progeny. If 
Mercury is with Saturn - religious, either husband is impotent or she is barren. 


Eighth House: 


Long life, well Known figure in his own country and in foreign land, gains through 
business, beloved of fair sex. Females enjoy his company, extra - marital sex, poet, 
judge, and orator, lawyer, chartered accountant, religious, ascetic. Weak in studies till 
the age of 12, gets divine power, stomachache or pain in thighs, loss in partnership, 
sudden financial gains, it does not cause death even if it is malefic, does not cause 
much problem before death, head of family, always speaks truth, honour from 
government, embezzlement of other's money. Special honour and luck at the age of 
25, suffers at the age of 28, 32 and 35. 


If with malefics - sinner, sexual, short - life. Ifin Libra sign - healthy, wealthy, devoid of 
happiness from progeny. Ifin own sign/ exalted or with strong planets - long life. 


In female horoscope - orator, ingratitude, advocate lawyer, chartered accountant, 
poetess, long life, intelligent. (If with malefics - smuggler), haughty, ill health, large 
number of enemies, opponents, impatient, timid. Weak in studies till the age of 14, 
gets inheritance. 


Ninth House: 


Religious, intellectual, gets Vedic and Tantric education, brings fame to the family, 
adventurous, famous, shuts mouth of wicked people, devotee of father, good orator, 


126 A Text Book of Astrology 


donor, helps other, research oriented, interested in new things/ objects. During transit 
of Satur in 9* house there is possibility of death of mother. Editor, writer, teacher, 
sons, destroyer of enemies, poet, interest in learning music, astrologer, always adopts 
the path of religion, lucky, prosperous, dominating nature. Possibility of death of mother 
at the age of 16 or 26. Luck favours at the age of 32, pilgrimage. 


if with benefics - knowledge of Vedas and Tantra Shastra, wealthy, comforts of 
conveyance. If with malefic - adopts the wrong path, believes in other's religion. If with 
Venus - gets important title. If with Jupiter and Venus - Rajyog. If Jupiter and Rahu in 
7 house - leaves his own country. 


In female horoscope - religious, intelligent, long life, polite, fame, chastity, clever, good 
deeds, beloved of husband, fasts. If Mercury is with malefics - inauspicious results. 


Tenth House: 

Gets inheritance, administrator and criminologist, has reputation for justice and fair 
play, talks less, intellectual, popular, enjoys reputation in society, poet, writer, devotee 
of parents, judge, magistrate, advocate, administrator, in government, dominating 
disposition, luck favours in financial matters. Financial gains at the age of 16, 27 and 
29, high status in government, respected by others, enjoys all comforts, gets success 
in beginning itself, good memory. 


In exalted or in own sign or with Jupiter- religious. If with Mars — jovial. If with malefic 
or the enemy planets - corrupt. If debilitated or with malefics- pain in knees. If in Virgo 
sign - very happy. Iflord of 10" house is also lord of Navamsa - business of textiles. 


In female horoscope - religious, Rajyog, judge, magistrate, long life, obedient of 
husband, character, prosperous, respectful, lucky, tolerant, always speaks truth, 
understands politics, respects preceptor, devoted to husband. 


Eleventh House: 


Wealthy, prosperous, respected, long life, systematic, fame, intellectual, poet, editor, 
sons, destroyer of enemies, gains through government, gains in business, well 
educated, high status, idealistic, follows the path of truth, indigestion, interest in occult 
subjects, astrologer and palmist, dyspepsia, very happy in the age of 45, lucky at the 
age of 19, successful in business, more number of female issues, architect. 


If with malefics - wicked, financial loss. If exalted or in own sign-gains from good 

deeds. Ifin Aries sign - dispute with elder brother. If in Virgo sign-respect, material 

happiness, donates everything, short life. If with Jupiter- lucky at the age of 11, 23 and 
36, ups and downs in financial matters. Ifwith Saturn - all comforts, amasses wealth at 
the age of 45. If with Venus - good health, long life. If with Rahu - loss, disease, 

unlucky, miseries. 


A Text Book of Astrology 127 


In female horoscope -wealthy, high status, happy, prosperous, high thinking, financial 
gains, devoted to husband, polite, dark — colour, expert in lending and borrowing. 


Twelfth House: 


Intelligent but lazy, advocate, religious, knowledge of religion, affectionate with co - 
borns, expenditure on business, settles in foreign land, service of jail or court, 
association with wicked people, interested in extra - marital relations, financial loss at 
the age of 22, wife suffers at the age of 44 or 48, surgery of eyes after the age of 26, 
more than one source of income, expenditure for good cause, strong enemies are 
defeated, involved in religious activities, uncles happy, 


If weak- inauspicious results. If with Sun - benevolent, less no. of issues, whimsical. 
Ifwith malefics - playful, opponent of government. If Mars is in 2 house - madness. If 
with Jupiter — poor, deligent. If with Moon - unfavourable, marital problems. 


in female horoscope - fond of travel, expenditure on education, impolite, devoid of 
wealth, quarrelsome, no fame, ill health, gains from relations, lean and thin. 


JUPITER 


First House: 


Destroys all malefic effects, respected, interested in occult subjects, long life, 

expenditure on tourism, proficient, clear in thoughts, handsome, happy, wealthy, polite, 
soft spoken, sons, religious, loves justice, high status, happiness from son, devotee of 
god, enjoys prosperity since childhood, good deeds, salvation, high status in 

government if Jupiter has directional strength, enjoys good food, knowledge of Vedas, 
lucky at the age of 16, fortunate at the age of 26. 


If with Mars - financial gains. Ifin Sagittarius sign or with malefics - gambler, speculator, 
priggish. Ifin Pisces sign - highly educated, progeny, polite. Ifin Aries or Leo sign - 
self pride. Ifin Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn sign - selfish. Ifin Scorpio or Pisces sign - 
joyful, pleasure - seeker, extravagant. If debilitated or under influence of malefics - 
wicked, separation from family, number of enemies, medium life. If in own or friendly 
sign - long life, happy, honour, and sons. If with Saturn or aspected by Saturn - 
philosopher, mental torture, religious. If exalted —- salvation, multi-millionaire. If Satum 
is in 7" house - gastric problems, neurological problems. If with Ketu - King like 
comforts. 


In female horoscope - long life, progressive, high respect, intellectual, wise, religious, 
serious nature, prosperous, chastity, always speaks truth, very beautiful, handsome 
body, important among females, successful in politics, comforts of queen, member of 
parliament legislature assembly, leader among women, beloved of husband. 


128 A Text Book of Astrology 


Second House: 


Words are well chosen, well spoken, poet, administrative capability, handsome, honour 
from government, works for good cause, long life, respected by affluents, beautiful 
face, businessmen, good in grammar, knowledge of Vedas, good food, good orator, 
respect in society, does not enjoy material happiness, impotent, sometimes defeated, 
difficulty in getting material gains, Judge/ magistrate, collector, devoid of happiness of 
father, no inheritance, may be adopted by others, education incomplete, wife dies 
before husband. 


Ifin Virgo sign - very wealthy. If debilitated or with malefics - debtor, cheat, corrupt, 
without male issue, extra - marital relations, fond of wine. Ifin Sagittarius sign - no 
problem of teeth till the age of 52. If debilitated - ailments of mouth. If exalted / in own 
sign / in Mool trikona sign - very wealthy. If aspected by Mercury - poor. If with Venus 
- wealthy. If Venus in 12" house - wealthy. If in Virgo or Sagittarius sign and retrograde 
- number of sons, prosperous. If with Ketu - power, authority, wealthy (provided no 
planet in 8* house) 


In female horoscope - prosperous, good orator, prosperity of family, without jealousy, 
does not wish bad for others, fame in family, very fortunate, charming, religious, fond 
of justice, leader among females, high status, with Jewelry / gems. 


Third House: 


Wicked, difficulty in material gains, dyspepsia, writer, settles on foreign land, happiness 
from brothers but cause of suffering for brothers, ascetic, theist, sexual, fond of foreign 
land, defeated by spouse, businessmen, 20* year of life is very important, foreign 
travel at the age of 38, yogkarak in its main/ sub - period, is not a reliable or ingratitude 
friend, does not enjoy comforts of life even though honoured by government, weak, 
religious, spiritual, serious, peaceful. 


Ifin Gemini sign - fortunate. If in Aries, Taurus, Leo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius or 
Pisces sign - medium results. If afflicted with Mars - obstacles. If aspected by malefics 
- devoid of wealth. If with benefics - brothers long lived. If in Aries, Leo or Sagittarius 
sign - influential, victorious. If in Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn sign - successful in 
business. If in Cancer, Scorpio, or Pisces sign - gains from foreign travel. If in 
Sagittarius or Pisces sign - only one brother. If in Taurus or Aquarius sign - suffers 
due to brothers. 


In female horoscope - definitely settles on foreign land, playful, ascetic, sportswoman, 
ill health, without any influence, no respect, sinful, deformity in body, devoid of wealth, 
co-borns without wisdom. If Jupiter is aspected by Moon - wealthy. 


A Text Book of Astrology 129 


Fourth House: 


All comforts, comfort of conveyance, even the enemies praise, unsatisfied, ascetic, 
handsome, hard worker, opponent of children, popular, devotee of parents, reputed, 
good behavior, progressive, astrologer, fortunate on foreign land, death while 
remembering god, good education, philosopher, enjoys all material comforts, employed 
in govt. service as gazetted officer, fast promotions, happiness from co-borns at the 
age of 12 and 20. Respects the preceptor, fortunate at the age of 22, ability to drive 
different types of vehicles, enemies cannot do any harm, religious. 


Ifin Scorpio sign - so powerful that even malefics have no adverse effects. If lord of 8th 
and 11" house - harmful. If with strong planets/ benefics/ Moon or Venus - big 
residential accommodation, conveyance etc. If with malefics - wicked. If exalted - 
salvation. Ifin Taurus sign - multi millionaire. 


In female horoscope - comforts of conveyance, wealth and property, happiness of 
parents, long life, wise, reputed, fond of good food, always happy, well educated with 
jewelry and gems, famous. IfJupiter is aspected by Moon - wealthy, comforts during 
old age, many servants, rich parents and in -laws. 


Fifth House: 


Pleasure seeker, fond of taking rest, good orator, imaginative, poet, writer, financial 
gains —inspeculation, progeny, policy — maker, literary, minister / advisor/ secretary, 
problems due to sons, polite, soft - spoken. 


If aspected by benefics - sons. Ifaspected by malefics/ enemies/ or lord of 6, 8* or 
12" house/ debilitated - only one son remains alive. 


Ifwith malefics - death of child. !fafflicted - gambler, speculator. If retrograde - suffers. 
Ifwith Rahu/Ketu-death of son. Ifexalted or in own sign - problem with progeny, more 
number of female issues. Ifin Aries sign - generous, high thinking, destroyer of enemies. 
If debilitated-atheist. If in sign of retrograde planet - sufferings, suffers because of 
children. 


In female horoscope-name and fame, well educated, gets scholarship, sons and gains 
through sons, very beautiful, chastity, able children. Soft - spoken, good deeds, 
religious, always speaks truth, good orator, good husband, Vedic and religious 
education, successful in competitions for govt. service. If aspected by Moon - wealthy. 


Sixth House: 


Ill health, destroyer of enemies, victorious, happiness of spouse, devoid of happiness 
of maternal uncle, ill health of mother, obstacles in progress, insulted, corrupt, astrologer, 
doctor or ayurvedic physician, business of paper, lucky in speculation, indigestion, 
intelligent, famous, generous, good deeds, fear of ill health or arms during the age of 


130 A Text Book of Astrology 


40. Suffers at the age of 6,8, and 12. Nose problems, lover of music, lazy; does well in 
the service of health department, signs of injury in body. 


ifin enemy's sign or retrograde - danger or loss from enemies. If in sign of Saturn and 
with Rahu - chronic or dangerous disease or T.B. If in Sagittarius or Pisces sign - 
enemies are from own caste. If with Ketu - charming nature, knowledge of death in 
advance provided second house is vacant. 


In female horoscope - ill health, angry, number of enemies, life full of problems, more 
enemies and opponents, bulky body or overweight, speaks truth, no interest in 
household work. If debilitated or with malefics - ill health. 


Seventh House: 

Very intelligent, famous, lucky, orator, wise, artist, polite, patience, settles on foreign 
land, extramarital relations (definite), wife very intelligent, children happy, sons-more, 
polite and with better status than father, beautiful, fortunate after marriage, successful 
in profession, marriage at the age of 22 or34. Special progress at the age of 34. Wife 
of same caste, co-borns, priggish, illegal relations with Brahman lady, wife of fair colour, 
soft spoken, charming personality. 


If in Pisces sign - delay in marriage. Ifweak/ with malefics/ aspected by malefics - 
extra - marital relations. If in Capricorn or Aquarius sign - inauspicious results but 
increase the signification of houses which are being aspected. Ifin Capricorn sign - 
wife short - lived. If debilitated or in enemy's sign - wicked and corrupt wife. If in 
Aquarius sign - gets respect, famous. If exalted or in own sign - definitely corrupt. 


In female horoscope - character beyond doubt, happiness of husband, employed, 
wealthy, famous, happy, intelligent, more number of enemies, good husband, beloved 
of husband, fond of travelling, faithful to husband. 


Eighth House: 


Long life, away from father, good health, happy, patience, charming, intelligent, writer, 
often in service, friends spend money on him, corrupt, greedy, suffers from venereal 
disease, barbarous, astrologer, ill health or fear of death at the age of 31. Yogkarak 
during own main/ sub - period, mentally disturbed, luck does not favour, defeated, 
salvation, relations with poor or low caste females, no inheritance, financial gains in 
marriage, gets wealth due to will by others. 


If strong - sudden financial gains. If exalted or in own house - knowledge of religions. 
Iflord of 8n house is malefic - relations with widow at the age of 17. Iflord of 8* house 
is weak - short lived, wicked, pleasure seeker. If exalted - salvation. If with lord of 2nd 
house - defects of speech. If with Moon - inauspicious. 


In female horoscope - long life, good health, bulky body, bulky hands and feet; eats 
very less, always tells lie, no chastity, separation from husband, pleasure seeker, playful, 


A Text Book of Astrology 131 


wanders on pilgrims, shortage of money, devoid of husband and son. If aspected by 
Moon - long life, husband long-lived. 


Ninth House: 


Sons, favourite of king, affection with co-borns, plans remain incomplete because of 
laziness, famous, devotee, knowledge of Vedas, fortunate, intellectual, knowledge of 
many subjects, ascetic, minister/advisor/secretary, no desires during old age, beautiful, 
civil engineer, draftsman, liked by females, lucky on foreign land, interested in occult 
subjects, financial gains/ income from administrative service, prosperity at the age of 
33, yogkarak during its period, preceptor during last birth, co-borns are polite, religious, 
father suffers at the age of 15, luck favours at the age of 16. 


Ifexalted - fame, salvation. Ifwith Rahu/Ketu or aspected by Saturn - unsuccessful. If 
in Cancer, Capricorn or Pisces sign - marine journeys, foreign travel. If in Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, or Sagittarius sign-land travels. If Aries sign - 
generous, polite, high thinking, destroyer of enemies. If with lord of 3ra house - 
prosperity after the age of 20., 


In female horoscope - lucky, religious, donor, intelligent, looks like goddess, famous, 
gratitude, all types of comforts, destroys the malefic effects of other planets, high status 
of husband, beloved of husband. 


Tenth House: 


Land lord, palatial house, artist, unsatisfied with sons, good deeds, good conduct, 
fame, wise, just, expert in occult subjects, independent thinker, devotee of rich parents, 
high status, judge/ magistrate/ administrator officer, favourite of king, fortunate at the 
age of 12, financial gains at the age of 12 and 19, successful in politics, continuous 
progress in government service, comforts of latest conveyance, not interested in 
females other than wife, religious, many people dine at home. 


If with malefics - wicked, obstacles. If exalted - salvation, guests are welcomed at 
home. 


In female horoscope- happiness and gains from father, lucky for father, social, political, 
name - fame, wise, generous, donor, gets famous due to some important work, 
servants, interesting business, successful in politics, sons, jewelry, loved, by husband. 


Eleventh House: 


Fame, prosperity from childhood, teacher, professor, preceptor, gains from govt. 
treasury, helpful for others, expenditure for good cause, engaged in profession, good 
health, intellectual, adventurous, beloved of number of females, architect, artist, civil 
contractor, civil engineer, long life, lucky after birth of son, fortune teller, financial gains 
at the age of 24, gains at the age of 32, suffers due to elder brother, gets good and 


132 A Text Book of Astrology 


valuable articles, understands the responsibility of father, others enjoy with his money. 


ifwith Moon - very fortunate, gets others' property. If debilitated - pains in legs. If in 
Cancer sign - more number of female issues, long life. 


In female horoscope - wealth, property, sudden financial gains, well educated, has 
control on senses, fame, religious, artist, donor, always speaks truth, wealthy like queen, 
member of parliament/ legislature assembly, beloved of husband. 


Twelfth House: 


Lazy, greedy, knowledge of religion, expenditure of religious deeds, fond of yogas, 
editor, confidence, expenditure, on guests, children are spoiled, heart problem, service, 
serves lower caste people, lucky due to friends, loss of money at the age of 25, eyes 
- trouble, laziness in helping preceptors and co-borns, venereal disease, sexual 
relations with Brahmin and pregnant females. 


If malefic-inauspicious results. If benefic - auspicious results. If debilitated - convict, 
children are spoiled. Iflord of 6* house - good health. If exalted - salvation. If debilitated 
-very wealthy. 


In female horoscope -expenditure on education, expenditure on guests, social service, 
ill health, likes others religions, playful, friendship with males, fond of travel. If debilitated 
or in enemies sign - quarrelsome, bad name, devoid of wealth. 


VENUS 


First House: 


Every part of body is extremely beautiful, attracted by opposite sex, all comforts, long 
life, healthy, soft spoken, intellectual, sexual, proficient in government work, effective, 
attractive face, comforts of wealth and conveyance, mole at back, cockpit, stomach or 
at sexual organs, always ahead of colleagues, mark of injury on forehead at the age of 
12, sexual pleasure at the age of 17, jovial, fond of songs and dance, wicked, cheat, 
destroyer-of strong enemies, very talkative, artist, fear from dogs or animals having 
horns, rigid, charm, has full control on females. 


If with Moon, Mars or Mercury- long life, pleasure, seeker, honour from government. If 
in Taurus, Gemini, Libra or Aquarius or Pisces, sign - benefic results. If in Aries, Cancer, 
Scorpio or Capricorn favourable results. If in Cancer or Scorpio and aspected by 

Mars - pleasure seeker. If combust or aspected by malefic or with malefics - gastric 

problems. Ifin own sign - Raj yog. Ifwith Mars or aspected by Mars - successful in 

medical profession, famous in music. Ifin Scorpio - foreign travel with females. If in 

own sign and Mercury and Saturn are together in any house-very wealthy. 


In female horoscope - happy, very beautiful, healthy, charming, attractive, good conduct, 


A Text Book of Astroloay 133 


soft spoken, self made, happiness of husband, wise, prosperous, generous, priggish, 
handsome husband, no defect, destroyer of enemies, fair complexion, husband long 
lived, sons. If Venus is in Pisces sign - pleasure seeker. If Venus is in own sign/ exalted 
—notvery beautiful. 


Second House: 


Poet, soft spoken, intellectual, handsome, beautiful and devoted wife, particular about 
dress, respected by all, fond of sweets, extra - marital relations, jewelers, fond of 
wearing gems, fortunate, adventurous, hard workers, helps others, financial gains, 
good food, prosperous, lucky wife, fond of singing, well educated, a head of colleagues, 
knowledge of occult subjects, long life, comfort of conveyance - sexual relations with 
beautiful female at the age of 32. 32™ year is significant from many points of view, gain 
of property in the age of 60, face and body attractive, worship of gods, voice attracts 
opposite sex, beautiful eyes, gets his work done by offering wine to friends, more than 
one marriage, lucky after marriage, wife also earns. 


Ifwith Moon - destruction of family, eyes trouble, loss of wealth. Ifaspected by Moon - 
problems in financial gains. If with Sun - eyes troubles. Ifdebilitated - debtor, may get 
even life imprisonment. If alone with malefics or aspected by malefics - loss due to 
government or theft, problems in journeys. If with Saturn or Mars - chastity of wife 
doubtful. If exalted - hesitates in accepting or giving alms. If not in debilitation/ enemy's 
sign provided Lagna lord is strong-like king. 


In female horoscope - extremely beautiful, may act in movies, do modelling or take 
part in beauty pageant, soft, healthy, happiness of family, fame, poetess, writer, believes 
in artificial show, proficient, good deeds (definite), with lot of jewelry. 


Third House: 


Not attracted by females, unsatisfied with sons, miser, lazy, artist, lucky, intellectual, 
fond of travel, playful, clever, extra - marital relations, successful with the help of sister, 
weak eyesight, wife beautiful but unsatisfied with her, liking towards dance, sports, 
games, love marriage, prosperity at the age of 20, less brothers and more sisters, 
luck favours at the age of 22 and 29, obstacles in marriage, more than one marriage, 
wife of different caste and more in age, weak constitution, softspoken, fond of wearing 
good dresses. 


Ifwith malefics or aspected by malefics - more than one marriage of father. If lord of 
8tn house is in 8* house - obstacles, suffering, imprisonment. 


In female horoscope - very wealthy, dancer (definite), devoid of happiness of husband 
and servants, no worries, harsh voice, good deeds, polite, number of brothers, 
affectionate, sisters, slim body, sexy, does not respect saints. 


134 A Text Book of Astrology 


Fourth House: 


Ahead of colleagues, high status, number of friends, prosperous, devotee of mother, 
long life, helpful for others, theist, clever, luck, wife very lucky, fond of singing, well 
educated, all comforts, self independent, wife very beautiful and helpful in other aspects 
of life, mother harsh, gain of immovable property and comfort and comfort of conveyance 
at the age of 30, respected, all material comforts, devotee of god, inheritance, 
happiness from co-borns at the age of 12 and 20, interference by wife and other females 
in the important aspects of life. 


If lord of 7* house - lot of dowry in marriage or earning wife. If weak - number of 
female issues. If with Mars - may have to sell his house, most sexual. If under the 
influence of malefics - extra marital relations. Ifwith Saturn - comforts through females. 
If with Rahu - very sexy having number of illicit relations. 


In female horoscope - self-made, all comforts, jovial, chastity, famous in family, wealthy, 
adopts other's religion, very beautiful, devotee of husband, full control of senses, 
religious. 


Fifth House: 


Happy, destroyer of enemies, successful, heart of a poet, pleasure - seeker, fond of 
justice, theist, generous, professional, more number of females, brave, inheritance, 
purchases house, mostly in service, all comforts of life, sons, argues well, minister/ 
secretary/general/in army high status, daughters married in very good families, son 
in laws, are very courteous, honour from government, relations with number of females, 
sons, wealth comes automatically without much efforts, poet, fond of sweets, wife is a 
pleasure seeker. Fond of theatre/ movies, sudden gains in speculation, wife very 
beautiful and charming, more than one marriage. 


If debilitated/ in enemy's or malefic sign/ combust - no sons, deligent, ill health of wife, 
devoid of happiness of wife. Ifin Virgo sign - ailment of stomach. If in Cancer sign - 
happiness after second marriage. If with Rahu-sexy and many illicit relations. 


In female horoscope - happy, all comforts, sons, handsome husband, speculative 
gains, very sexy and extra marital relations. 


Sixth House: 


Daily new enemies, unsuccessful, spoiled by friends, extravagant, devoid of happiness 
of father and wife, lucky after marriage, greedy, does not maintain cordial relations 
with wife, extra- marital relations, happiness from service, backache, urinary problems, 
liver - disease, diabetes, disc- deformation, hunch backed, injury from arms at the 
age of 21, fear from enemy at the age 41, impotent, friendship with wicked people, 
destroys the family due to recitation of inauspicious mantras, ill health, helpful to co- 
borns, mother and maternal uncle. 


A Text Book of Astrology 135 


If debilitated/ combust/ in enemy's sign - ill health, quarrelsome, enemity. If exalted/ 
debilitated - successful. If combust - becomes intellectual even by taking birth in lower 
family. 


In female horoscope - backache, opponent, jealous, angry, victory over enemies, harsh, 
devoid of a happiness of husband and progeny, violent, deserted by husband and 
sons, cough and gastric problems, passionate, unhappy married life. 


Seventh House: 


Always suffers from backache, pleasure - seeker, settles on foreign land, cannot work 
hard, generous, popular, wealthy, unnecessary worries, lucky after marriage, playful, 
marital happiness, wife beautiful but harsh, chances of wife being lost, fond of wine 
and non-veg food, baldly, quarrelsome, always quarrels with wife, wife very lucky, 
attractive personality, good behavior, enjoys sexual relations with very beautiful females, 
artist, more than one marriage, very sexual, beloved of females. 


If exalted/in own sign - gets fame due to wife. Ifin Scorpio or Capricorn sign - pleasure 
seeker. If in Leo sign - auspicious results. If debilitated or in enemy's sign - wife 
wicked and chastity of wife doubtful. If in Aries, Scorpio, Capricorn or Aquarius sign in 
Navamsa and aspected by Mars or Saturn - pleasure seeker. If with malefics-ill health 
of wife or wife devoid of husband's happiness. Ifin Scorpio sign - death of wife. If with 
Saturn - wife pleasure seeker or more than one marriage. If exalted - either father - in 
- law is very wealthy or gets lot of dowry. 


In female horoscope - self made, backache, sexy, prosperous, intellectual, fame, 
beloved of husband, religious, beloved of co-borns, devotee of Brahmans, acceptable 
everywhere, good husband, happy marital life, passionate but having good character 
if there is no influence of Mars or Satum. Ifwith Mars - chastity doubtful or love marriage. 


Eighth House: 


Comforts of conveyance, long - life, lives in other's house, harsh, obstacles in success, 

debtor, ill health, angry, irritable, sufferings, venereal disease, hard worker, expenditure 
on females, attracted towards females, land lord, if does not die at the age of 4 than 

life is 75-80 years, corrupt, pleasure - seeker, mother and self suffer at the age of 4, 

worries about wife and son, wife devotee/ short spoken/ reliable. 


If debilitated - does not bother about ill health. Ifit is lord of 2°" house - sudden gains. 
Ifin Taurus, Libra or Pisces sign - devoid of spouse and wealth, urinary problems. Ifin 
Libra sign - sufferings, journeys, imprisonment. If exalted - financial loss. 


In female horoscope- most sexual, love marriage, leucorrhea, long life, devoid of wealth, 
sufferings, careless, cheat, chastity doubtful, impolite, quarrelsome, deceitful, dirty 
dress, beautiful eyes, priggish. 


136 A Text Book of Astrology 


Ninth House: 


Very wealthy, religious, happiness of brothers, theist, wise, affectionate, pleasure- 
seeker, prosperity after marriage, proficient in government work, lucky due to 
government, happiness of wife/ sons/ friends, achievement of aim at the age of 15, 
fortunate at the age of 25, earns money in administrative service, people recognize 
his house from distance, respect for preceptors and guests, good dress, calm and 
quiet, expertise and fame in singing/ playing of musical instruments/ movies. 


\fin Capricorn sign-prosperity. Ifin Taurus sign - no obstacles. If with lord of 4* or 7* 
house - fortunate. If with malefics - sexual relations with preceptor's wife or aged 
female. If with ketu - most auspicious results. 


In female horoscope - destroyer of malefic effects, religious, lucky, famous, happy, 
good conduct, patience, qualities of males, famous amongst females, body parts similar 
to males, influential like queen, asset, beloved of husband, social worker. 


Tenth House: 


Greedy, wicked, devoid of progeny, pleasure seeker, wealthy, victorious, artist, or 
interest in handicrafts, career in film line or in music, or connected with cosmetics, 
success in business, high status, fear of arms at the age of 27, lucky at the age of 22, 
does not get good results during its period, gains in business of precious metals, 
quarrelsome, hypocrite, extravagant. 


If exalted/ in own sign - principal of Music College, differences with wife but friendship 
and gains from other females, worries of children. If aspected by Sun or Moon - gets 
many degrees and honours, gold medalist. 


In female horoscope - religious, career in films, music or fashion designing, helpful for 
others, chastity, prosperous, intellectual, fame, beautiful, soeaks truth, member of 
parliament or legislature assembly, wealthy, good deeds. 


Eleventh House: 


Gains in all undertakings, handsome, polite, fame, lover of truth, wise, wealthy, lucky, 
deals in jewelry, fond of gems, well educated, popular figure, comfort of vehicle, lucky 
after marriage, officer of high status, relations with number of females, luck favours at 
the age of 22, financial gains at the age of 24, enemies are always afraid, expert in 
policies and dancing, extremely handsome. 


In Leo sign - auspicious results. If with malefics - gains in sinful deeds. If with benefics 
- gains in good deeds. If with Sun - gains from government. If with Moon - gain of 
property from friend. If debilitated or with lord of 8* house - no gains. 


In female horoscope - wealthy, happy, more number of daughters, influential, 


A Text Book of Astrology 137 


prosperous, always interested in gaining knowledge, gains, without any fault, knowledge 
of religion, owner of number of houses, knowledge of dancing, beautiful, jovial. 


Twelfth House: 


No dearth of money, bulky body, extramarital relations and expenditure on females, 
lazy, lover of education, miser, destroyer of enemies, happy, longlife, pleasure seeker, 
independent, debtor, financial loss at the age of 45, fortunate due to wife, wife long 
lived, gets all comforts in life, dependant of females, always idling to have contact with 
females, liar, early marriage, possibility of more than one marriage. 


Ifwith Saturn - marriage with female of other caste or remains bachelor. If exalted - 
ascetic, wealthy. If with benefics - owners of cinema - hall or auditorium. If in Libra 
sign-problem in legs. If exalted/ debilitated — successful. If with Saturn or Mars-chastity 
of wife doubtful. Ifaspected by benefics - business or service connected with prison, 
charitable institutions or chemicals. 


In female horoscope - expenditure on self and family, sexy, love affairs, leaves the 
house, marriage according to her choice, hypocrite, priggish, ill health, wicked, ill during 
childhood. 


SATURN 
First House: 


Prosperous, hard worker, deligent, ill health, victory over enemies, settles in foreign 
land, foreign travels, fond of tourism, obstacles in marriage till 30* year of age, 
sufferings, unhappy, greedy, bulky, gastric problems, either lives in other's house or 
lives as a tenant, suffers during childhood, poverty, serious problem at the age of 5, 
tooth- ache, lazy, recluse. 


Ifin Virgo, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius or Pisces sign - no malefic effects, wealthy, 
intellectual, head person of village. If with Mars - injury, sudden death, suicidal 
tendencies, imprisonment, charges of accepting bribe. If aspected by Moon-fed by 
others. Ifexalted or in own sign - like king, most benefic. If Mars is in 7" house-ailments 
of private parts. Ifin enemy's sign - separation form family. If in Aries, Taurus, Gemini, 
Cancer, Leo, Virgo or Scorpio sign-malefic results. If in Aquarius sign - big teeth. If in 
Sagittarius or Pisces sign- intellectual and high status. If in Scorpio sign with malefics 
- unreliable. If with lord of 4* or 10" house - very strong Raj yog. Ifin Virgo sign - thief, 
suspicious. Ifaspected by Sun and Mars - ill health. If with Rahu - suffers from hydrocele. 
If in Aries sign and aspected by Sun-insomnia. 


In female horoscope - auspicious results if in own sign. If in Cancer, Sagittarius or 
Pisces sign - benefic results, fond of jewelry. In other signs - harmful. Injured by iron, 
long life, weak eye sight, thick teeth, heavy bones, hard worker, efficient in 


138 A Text Book of Astrology 


administration, helps others, bulky body, angry, creates problems for husband. If in 
own sign or exalted or aspected by Jupiter - above results become benefic. 


Second House: 


Separation from family, lives in own country at a distant place from family, enjoys all 
comforts of life, harsh, uses arms for selfish needs, wanders in search of happiness, 
collection of goods, impatient, ailments of mouth, disrespect for ascetic, separation 
from co-borns, family suffers, lives in other's house or lives as a tenant, dependent on 
others, not a good looking face, devoid of wealth, leaves his house and enjoys all 
comforts at other place, happy after the age of 36, injury in shoulders, paralysis, harsh, 
stammering, suffers constantly from mental worries, financial loss at the age of 12, 
manufacturer of medicine, manufactures small items with machines but does not gain 
much, practice of occult for bad cause, harm to house and children, suffers during 
childhood, happy at the age of 28, wealthy after age of 36, happy and successful 
during old age. 


\faspected by malefics - children are dead before birth. If with malefic or aspected by 
malefics - dog bite. If aspected by benefics - religious. If aspected by Mercury - 
wealthy by illegal means, bad habits. If Rahu is in 7* house- more then one marriage. 
Ifnot aspected by benefics - obstacles in education. If with lord of 2" house - fear of 
bite from mad dog. Ifwith female planets - financial loss through association of wicked 
people, may be actor/ singer. 


In female horoscope - loss of family and wealth, long life, harsh, devoid of wealth, 
separation from near relations, insulted, ill health, wealth and happiness after middle 
age due to own efforts. 


Third House: 


Ailments of throat, ear and teeth, influential speech, good health, cannot work hard, 
obstacles, suffering, intellectual, fond of watching wrestling or himself is a wrestler, 
victory over enemies, loss of co-born, ill health, during childhood, fond of singing and 
dancing, sports person, long life, unsuccessful till the age of 35, happiness of co-born 
at the age of 2 and 3, yogkarak during its period, mentally disturbed due to co-borns, 
unsuccessful inspite of hard work, wickedness even with those who respect him, wicked, 
always bad words come out of mouth, dark complexion, dirty body. Marak for younger 
brothers, association of lower grade people, interest in astrology. 


If with Venus -jovial. If exalted or in own sign - number of brothers. If debilitated or 
combust - destroyer of brothers, does not maintain good relations with relatives. If in 
Libra, Capricorn or Aquarius sign - cause of being fortunate. If with Sun and Mars - 
destroyer of co-borns. If with Rahu - ailments of arms or injury in arms. If in Aquarius 
sign - medium life. Ifin Aries sign - breathing troubles. If with Mars - service of prison, 
amy, or police. 


A Text Book of Astrology 139 


In female horoscope - settles on foreign land, ascetic, sportswoman, dancer, actor, 
fame, wise, brave, number of issues, wise among intellectuals, praiseworthy, devoid 
of younger co-borns, extraordinary in strength and intelligence, earns herself and feeds 
tothe family, powerful. 


Fourth House: 


Ill health during childhood, obstacles in inheritance, sufferings from brothers, loss of 
family, sufferings to parents, devoid of strength, gets angry soon, wicked, deceitful, 
sadness, defamation, chest-pain, surgery of chest or injury or stabbing on chest, injury 
or accident, does not have his own house, heart trouble, does not stay in newly 
constructed house, stays on a foreign land, differences with parents, sufferings during 
old age, problems due to wrong decisions, fear from animals, does not maintain good 
health, stepmother, feels as if life is made only to suffer. 


Ifin Libra sign - gain of property. Ifstrong - loss of son. Ifin enemy's sign - loss of all 
sons. If exalted or in own sign - wealthy, happy, comforts of vehicle. If retrograde - 
leaves own country, ill health throughout the life. Ifwith benefics - gain of immovable 
property. Ifaspected by malefics - blindness or weak eyesight. Ifin Aries sign - chest 
troubles. Ifwith lord of 4* house and is also malefic or weak - suffering during old age, 
poverty. 


In female horoscope - sufferings to mother, heart trouble, sufferings to self, obstacles 
in progeny, devoid of happiness, inconsistency in thoughts, ingratitude, devoid of 
intelligence, no fame, does not have feelings to help others, company of wicked, playful, 
gastric problem, lazy, quarrelsome. 


Fifth House: 


Delay in progeny, immature delivery, obstacles in progeny, whimsical, gains and loss 
of property, atheist, stomach troubles, fond of travelling, more number of female issues, 
lazy, devoid of knowledge/ sons/ wealth/ happiness, often in service, loss of brother at 
the age of 5, fear of fire at the age of 6, enemity with friend, not a handsome figure, not 
sexual. 


If aspected by Jupiter - more than one marriage, one wife does not have any son. If 
strong - in company with females. If aspected by Sunand Mars - number of chronic 
diseases. If debilitated - heart trouble, troubles in private parts, death either by drowning 
or by falling. Ifafflicted with malefics - neurological problems, poverty. If in Cancer sign 
- number of sons. If in own sign and Sun or Moon is in 11 * house - very wealthy. If in 
Aquarius sign - progeny. 


In female horoscope - obstacles in education, technical education (electrical branch), 
more number of female issues, imposing personality, without norms, devoid of son, 
priggish, delay in progeny, impotent, company of wicked. 


140 A Text Book of Astrology 


Sixth House: 


Strong body, destroyer of enemies, fond of animals, pleasure seeker, throat and back 
problems, urinary problem, stones, diabetes, poet, opponent, asthmatic, head injury 
due to stone, danger from electricity, wealthy, always feels hungry, less number of 
sperms, pain in legs, benevolent, no penalty from state, obstacle in the happiness of 
sons of maternal uncle, fame. 


If with Mars - Raj yog, foreign travel. If debilitated - enmity with low caste people, 
destroyer of enemies. If exalted - successful in achieving aim. If debilitated or in enemy's 
sign - destroyer of family. If debilitated or combust - fear of arms or poison, change of 
place of job, early death of parents, ill health of wife and children, loss or confinement 
through state. If Moon and Jupiter are in kendras - very wealthy. If in Taurus, Leo or 
Scorpio sign - heart or throat troubles, urinary problems. If in Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius 
or Pisces sign - T.B. or arthritis. If with Rahu/ Ketu - blessed with wealth, age more 
than 70 years if with ketu. 


In female horoscope - good health, no enemies, backache (definitely), devoid of 
knowledge and wisdom, plumpy body, head in the family and in females, number of 
sons, good dress and jewelry, beloved of husband, beloved of sons, husband may 
have more than one wife. 


Seventh House : 


Permanently rich, worried with illness of spouse and sons, greedy, wicked, fond of 
travel, although does not like spouse even then devoted to spouse, toothache, 
obstacles in marriage till the age of 30, two marriages, stones (definitely if Lagna is 
Scorpio), relations with characterless females, backache, destroyer of spouse or 
sufferings to spouse, gastric troubles, famous due to some special characteristic, 
foreign travel, enjoys all comforts, high status at the age of 36, high status because of 
directional strength, beautiful wife, good friends, defective walk, depends on others, 
loss in partnership. 


Ifwith Mars - wife very sexual. Ifwith Venus - sexual but spouse characterless. If in 
Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius or Pisces sign -two marriages. If in Libra, Capricorn, and 
Aquarius or with benefics - wealth in marriage, devoted spouse, fortunate after 
marriage. If in own sign/ exalted/ Sagittarius sign - sexual. If in Pisces - death of 
spouse. 


In female horoscope - obstacles in marriage till the age of 27, two marriages, separation 
from husband, long life, husband is'much older, characterless, politician, devoid of 
happiness, ill health, fond of wine, wicked friends, stones, enjoys the life, marriage 
with widower but prosperous. Ifaspected by malefics-late marriage. 


A Text Book of Astrology 141 


Eighth House: 


Shrinking of heart, sinner, enemity with own people, plumpy body, lazy, foolish, cheat, 
fearful, generous, weak eyesight or eyes troubles, accident through vehicle, stomach 
troubles, Piles/ fistula, friends do not care, fear of'death through a low caste person, 
suffers from chromic disease, blood ailments, loss of wealth, company of wicked, 
opposition without any valid reason, fault finding, skin-disease, blood ailments, loss of 
wealth, company of wicked, boils, suffers in foreign country, serious, foolish son, long 
life, sufferings. 


if with Venus-adulterer, fond of travel, If with Mars-disease of private parts. If with Rahu- 
fear from fire/ poison/ stone/ wood/ arms. If with Rahu and Sun-pessimist, wealthy, 
wicked sons, asthma or T.B. If exalted/ own sign/ friend’s sign-long life. If in enemy's 
sign especially in the sign of lord of Mars-short life. If debilitated/ enemy's sign-short 
life. Ifdebilitated or combust-fear from arms and poison. 


In female horoscope-injury, vehicle accident, eyes troubles or weak eye sight, long life, 
foreign travel, injury in upper part of hips, gyane problems, obstacles in male progeny, 
suffers due to her own deeds, wicked, characterless. If Saturn is in own sign-barren. 


Ninth House: 


Deligent, soft spoken, ascetic, devotee, knowledge of religions, becomes ascetic 
during the period of Saturn, destroyer of enemies, devoid of brothers, no interest in 
extra marital affairs, loss of fortune, sufferings to father at the age of 19 or 29, lucky at 
the age of 36, yogkarak during own dasha, sufferings due to friends, always eager for 
pilgrims, donor, simple living, no affection during old age, handsome, wealthy, number 
of ailments in body, step mother. 


Ifwith benefics-foreign travels. If aspected by Sun and Mars-chronic diseases. If exalted/ 
own sign or aspected by Jupiter-revolution in religious thoughts. If debilitated-atheist, 
devoid of wealth, spouse of questionable character. If in own sign-religious, static 
honour, father long lived. If exalted-wealthy, happy. 


In female horoscope - atheist, barren, lucky, devoid of happiness of brother, settles on 
foreign land, wicked, no respect for preceptor, ascetic. 


Tenth House: 


Loss of parent during childhood, sinner due to being priggish, victorious, politician, 
judge, officer, wise, high expectations, stomach troubles, government service, 
responsible position, prosperity in business, fortunate at the age of 36, interest in 
astrology, gains in the business of machines and leather, fear of arms or enemies at 
the age of 26 and 54, harsh marital life or recluse, gradual progress in life, sudden 
prosperity not possible, no-inheritance, changes in profession, imprisonment, 


142 A Text Book of Astrology 


revolutionary at the age of 41 to 45. 


If exalted-Raj yog. If debilitated or in enemy's sign-violent, disease of genital organs. If 
with Mars-diabetic. Ifwith malefics-obstacles. Ifin Pisces sign-ascetic. If not aspected 
by benefics-obstacles in education. 


In female horoscope-separation from father. If exalted/ in own sign/ friendly sign-financial 
gains due to own efforts or by cheating. Company of wicked, no ideals, pleasure 
seeker, love for filthy literature. 


Eleventh House: 


Death of parents during childhood, loss of wealth of father, sudden and unexpected 
problems, money earned by self remains safe, brave, long lived, respect of preceptors, 
wise, suffers due to children, injury by stone, gains in property and factories, honour 
from state, more number of female issues, gains due to black coloured articles, 
prosperity after the age of 36, successful administrator, always wealthy, intelligent, 
victorious, good health, devoid of happiness of son, first child is dead, barren spouse, 
loss due to friends, cannot recover the money given on credit. 


If exalted/ in own sign-fortunate, wealthy, comfort of vehicle, greedy. If afflicted-wife 
barren or death of children. Ifin debilitated sign-fortunate, Raj yog. 


In female horoscope-gains from state, technical or engineering profession, good 
looking, company of good people, ailments of blood, gastric and cough ailments, 
thoughtless, always insulted, pleasure seeker, gains, long life. 


Twelfth House: 


Shameless, small eyes, fond of foreign travel, neurological problems, harsh, does not 
spend, wicked, unreliable, left eye defective, devoid of happiness of progeny, cheat, 
handicapped, tooth problems, spouse suffers and loss of wealth at the age of 45, 
gradual progress in service, expenditure or speculation activities, follower of wicked 
people, fearful, recluse, secret enemies, injury from animals, imprisonment on false 
charges. 


If Saturn is lord of Lagna-destroyer of enemies, ascetic. If aspected by malefics-suffers 
from piles. If exalted-financial gains due to cheating. If with Mars-imprisonment. If with 
malefics-loss in profession. If strong-public service, social service, religious. If aspected 
by Mars-no interest in worldly affairs. 


In female horoscope-eyes trouble, stomach trouble, foreign travel, imprisonment, 
bondage, away from home, pleasure seeker, does not use intelligence, ill health, 
extravagant, wicked, insulted, devoid of wealth, lazy, strange nature, blood ailments, 
gastric problems. 


A Text Book of Astrology 143 


RAHU 
First House: 


Often ill, very talkative, injury in head, destroyer ofenemies, victorious in arguments, 
selfish, neurological problems, eager in wicked deeds, uninterested in this world, short 
life, obstacles in marriage, dental problems, problem in the left eye, chronic ailment in 
upper part of body, cheats the relations, deceitful, tall, suffers bodily at the age of 5, 7, 
and 16, ingratitude, red eyes, powerful, expert in social work, black spot on face, 
devoid of happiness of spouse and son, injury in head with sharp edged weapon, fear 
of fire and poison. 


Ifin Aries, Taurus, or Cancer sign - protects from all problems. Ifin Taurus, Gemini, 
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn or Pisces sign - Raj yog. If in Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini, Virgo or Aquarius sign - long life. Ifin Aquarius sign - tall but with permanent 
disease. Ifwith Saturn - deserts his spouse. 


Infemale horoscope - ugly, shameless, often ill, angry, playful, reddish eyes, does not 
respect preceptors, wicked, handicapped, deserted. 


Second House: 


Destroyer of family, opponent, harsh, fond of foreign travel, fear of death with weapons, 
destroyer of enemies, extravagant but accumulates own earned wealth, cannot keep 
anything secret about others, speaks words with double meaning, priggish, ailments 
of mother, does not refund other's money, wealthy with state finances, spot on the 
face, jaundice, tamsik, contact with wicked, number of enemies, long nose, does not 
agree with friends, more than one marriage or sexual relations with other females, 
earns in foreign country, teeth out of shape, business of leather goods/ liquor/ meat. 


If debilitated-devoid of wealth but lucky on foreign land, speaks truth. Ifin Libra sign - 
yogkarak. Ifwith benefic planets - mole on the chin. 
Infemale horoscope - thief, lives in others' house, fond of wandering, always eager to 


have sexual relations, talkative, widow, poor, wicked husband, ill health, wealthy in 
foreign country. 


Third House: 


Happiness of wealth-spouse-son, no sufferings, powerful, wrestler, wealthy, brave, ideal, 
death of brother, long life, comforts of servants, multimillionaire, throat, ear and teeth 
problems, behaves like his own brother with every body, honour from state. 


Ifin Gemini, Leo, Virgo or Aquarius sign - glorious. If exalted -very wealthy, comforts 
of vehicle, number of servants. If debilitated - malefic for brother. If with benefic planet 
markon throat. 


144 A Text Book of Astrology 


In female horoscope - weak hands, devoid of brothers/ sisters, victorious, devoted 
husband and children, good health, destroyer of enemies, polite. 


Fourth House: 


Sufferings to mother, devoid of wealth, cruel, separation from brothers, in company 
with mean people, stomach problems, does not talk much, heart trouble, fear of 
accident, short lived, back biter, no happiness from vehicle and property, extra marital 
relations, progress during the age of 35-53, sadness, lives away from home, foolish, 
no sympathy from others, fond of wandering, deceitful, lazy, step mother, more than 
one marriage, illegal progeny, diplomat or engineer. 


Ifin Aries, Gemini, Cancer, or Virgo - auspicious. Ifwith malefics - sufferings to mother. 
Ifin Aries, Gemini, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio or Capricorn - Raj yog karak. 


In female horoscope - company of number of males, influenced by other religions, 
devoid of happiness from brother, back biter, atheist husband, one issue, unhealthy, 
devoid of happiness of mother, ingratitude, affection with animals. 


Fifth House: 


Male progeny, ill health of wife, destroyer of wealth and family, abortions, obstacles in 
education, often in service, stomach problems, sufferings from son, weak teeth, sudden 
gains, heart problems, deep knowledge of some subjects, diplomat or engineer, delay 
in first issue, devoid of comforts and enjoyments, speaks though nose, loss of son due 
to curse of snake, second marriage. 


Ifwith Moon loss of son is definite. Ifin Aries, Taurus or Cancer - benefic, progeny. 


In female horoscope - sexy, devoid of son, thick teeth, conduct similar to a prostitute, 
not liked by anybody, sufferings. Ifwith Moon - devoid of son, deceitful, foolish. 


Sixth House: 


Destroyer of enemies, wealthy, happiness from son, gains from people belonging to 
other religions, good tolerance power, potent, suffers from backache, ambitious, brave, 
Raj yog, injury of head from animals cart, maternal uncle suffers, long life, suffers from 
diseases of rectum, extra marital relations, contact with sinners, injury from wooden 
article or stone, somebody from maternal side dies on a foreign land, contact with 
foreigners, black spot on back, difficulties in service. 


If exalted - destroys all malefic effects, always in contact with opposite sex, sinner, 
extra marital relations. Ifwith Moon - sexual relations with very rich female, gains from 
opposite sex. 


In female horoscope - destroyer of enemies and diseases, fame, wealth, intelligent, 
expert in good deeds, soft spoken, beloved of husband, highly educated. 


A Text Book of Astrology 145 


Seventh House: 


More than one marriage, disgraceful, pleasure seeker, loss in business, loss in 
partnership, fond of travelling, suffers from gastric problems, wicked, obstacles in 
marriage, loss of money due to females, problems in teeth, loss of sexual desire with 
spouse, wife suffers from gynecological problems, yogkarak in its own dasha, widower, 
loss of coborns, ugly wife, devoid of bed/ sexual comforts, relations with widow, health 
problems due to sexual relations with wicked females, wife elder than himself, loss of 
property. 

Ifin Aries, Gemini, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, or Capricorn - Raj yog karak. If aspected 
by Moon - number of marriages, fortunate. Ifwith lagnesh - suffers from hydrocele. 


In female horoscope - ugly, devoid of husband, gynecological, problems, devoid of 
happiness from co - borns and in laws, ingratitude, widow, wicked, devoid of intelligence 
and comforts. 


Eighth House: 


Sudden gains, hard hearted, hard working, gastric problems, separation from family, 
no inheritance, respect in society, honour from govt., very fortunate at least once in life, 
loss, genitals disease, death due to allegation of theft, devoid of spouse/ son/ wealth 
and education, healthy body, erotic, poor, suffers at the age of 4, short life, death due 
to wicked people, suffers from piles and hydrocele, deceitful, weak financial position, 
loss in business, suffers at the age of 32, 45, 50 and 60, gains of property from some 
female or from near relations (definite if exalted) 


If with benefic - fear of death at the age of 25. lfwith strong planets - fear of death at 
the age of 60. 


In female horoscope - suffers from various diseases, wicked, involved in thefts even if 
rich, widow, insulted by others. 


Ninth House: 


Does not maintain cordial relations with brothers, pilgrimage, kind hearted, gastric 
problems, settles on a foreign land, industrious, wicked, unsuccessful, unfortunate till 
the age of 42, deceived by others, leader or head of community or city, no progeny, 
firm believer of goddess Durga, violent, does not leave any task uncompleted, sexual 
relations with a lower caste female, sexual, loss in business of import-export, gains in 
business in his own country. 


Ifexalted or in own sign - wealthy, happy, fame, atheist. Ifin Taurus sign - yog karak. 


Infemale horoscope - barren, faith and devotions in goddess Durga, interest in religion 


146 A Text Book of Astrology 


of others, fond of non- vegetarian food, fond of liquor, wanders unnecessarily, suffers 
through enemies and various ailments, without any fame. 


Tenth House: 


Sinner, contact with wicked, licentious, pleasure seeker, handsome, sexual relations 
with beautiful females or with widow, talkative, quarrelsome, suffers at the age of 12, 
wealthy, destroyer of enemies, honour by government, few sons, sinner but famous, 
land lord, secretary/ minister/ diplomat/ governmentofficer, expert in business, comfort 
of vehicles, strong enemies but victorious over them, devoid of happiness of parents, 
spouse maintains ill health and is foolish, gastric problems, cannot have good sleep. 


Ifin Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo or Virgo or Pisces, signs - auspicious. If with 
Moon - Raj yog, national flag is put on his house or vehicle. If Rahu is malefic - company 
of wicked. If in Taurus, Gemini, Virgo or Scorpio sign - authority, gains from foreign 
contacts or from foreign countries. If Rahu is weak and afflicted - pleasure seeker, 
bad habits, Raj yog karak in his dasha or sub - dasha. Ifin Scorpio sign - gains, 
honour by govt. destroyer of enemies. 


In female horoscope - good deeds, Raj yog. Ifwith Moon - Raj yog, national flag on 
house or vehicle, very sexual, gets money of others, playful, devoid of happiness of 
parents, neglected by husband, opposition from co - borns, destroyer of enemies, 
can become saint. 


Eleventh House: 


Gains from wicked, friendship with fools, happiness from sons, deligent, destroyer of 
malefic effects, alert, happiness from spouse, long- life, injury with stone, businessman, 
fortunate on a foreign land, very fortunate at the age of 45, successful after the age of 
31, yogkarak in main and sub - period, deaf, no gains from speculation, haughty. 


In female horoscope-extremely beautiful, polite, beloved of her husband, very wealthy, 
comforts of vehicles, pleasing personality, comforts of servants, loyal son, always speaks 
truth. 


Twelfth House: 


Chest pain, unsuccessful, opposition from own people, friendship with wicked, unwise, 
extravagant, full of worries, sexual, settles on a foreign land, right eye defective, long 
life, loss due to theft, brings bad name for family, wicked, secret sins, loss of inherited 
wealth/ property, change of place or transfers. 


In female horoscope - devoid of wealth and religion, believes on what the others say, 
extravagant, devoid of comfort of husband, neglected by family, eye troubles. 


A Text Book of Astrology 147 


KETU 


First House: 


Near relations suffer, fear from wicked, knowledge of many languages, gastric 
problems, ingratitude, backbiter, gains, dark colour, back pain, pain in stomach, 
sweating on palm, tells lie. 


Ifin Scorpio sign - wealthy, happy, hard working. lIfin Gemini sign - short life, poor. If 
Ketu is benefic or in Aquarius sign - gains, progeny. If in Cancer or Pisces sign - 
benefic. If in Capricorn or Aquarius sign - immovable property, progeny. If with lagn 
lord - short life. Ifwith Venus - always have an eye on females. 


In female horoscope - intelligent, successful in research, gets upset on being 
unsuccessful in any undertaking, angry, ill health, husband suffers, aspected by benefic 
or with benefics planets - happiness of son, gastric problems. 


Second House: 


Ailments of mouth, no inheritance, no respect, fond of fish, gains due to own efforts, 
sudden gains, suffers from jaundice, opponent, involved in financial scandals, fear of 
government, opposition from family and spouse, loss by wealth in its own dasha and 
sub - dasha, harsh, lack of education. 


Ifin Gemini, Virgo or Pisces sign - very happy. If in Sagittarius sign - more gains even 
with less efforts, fond of listening music. If in Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, or Scorpio 
signs - stomach ailments. Ifin its own sign or benefic - always happy, wealthy. If with 
Venus and Jupiter - prosperous. Ifin Leo, Virgo, Scorpio or Sagittarius signs - benefic, 
loss of wealth and father at the age of 12. 


In female horoscope - prosperity, away from place of birth, eye problems, opposition 
from family members, mouth ailments. Ifin Gemini or Virgo sign - all comforts. 


Third House: 


Destroyer of enemies, wealth, comforts, fame, worries, devotee of ghosts, brave, playful, 
clever, no happiness from co - born, loss of one brother, arguments with other but 
victorious, deceived by some friends but no harm done, Ear, throat and teeth problems, 
yog - karak during main and sub - periods, pain in the arms, relations with enemy's 
wife. 


Ifmalefic - defame, quarrelsome, ear problems, deaf. Ifin Pisces sign - spiritual. If in 
Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, signs - prosperous. Ifwith benefics - mark on throat. If in 
own sign - great warrior. 


In female horoscope - settles on foreign land, weak hands, pain in the hands, fearful, 


4A A Tawt Daal at Aatralvaants 


confusion, restlessness, worries but brave, victorious over enemies, capable issues, 
happiness from younger brothers, loss of friends. 


Fourth House: 


Devoid of happiness from parents, loss of inherited property, settles on a foreign land, 
gets nervous, weak heart, problems of blood pressure, worries, devoid of happiness 
from property/ brothers, stays in other's house, leaves motherland, educated wife, 
fortunate wife, advice of wife on important matters very useful, mental tensions, inferiority 
complex, arguments with mother, suffers during old age. 


If exalted - helpful to brothers. Ifin Sagittarius sign - educated wife who is good advisor 
If exalted or in own sign - happiness from co - borns. If in Aries or Scorpio sign - 
problem of blood pressure. If in Leo sign -fear from poison (if Sun is with Ketu definitely 
takes poison) 


In female horoscope - sufferings to mother, ill health, devoid of happiness from mother, 
either mother is always ill or death of mother during childhood, sufferings during young 
age, loss of wealth of father, devoid of vehicle comfort, stays away from motherland. If 
in Sagittarius or Pisces sign - happiness from co - borns, If in Aries or Scorpio sign, 
problem of blood pressure. Ifin Leo sign - fear from poison. 


Fifth House: 


Sufferings from co - born, gastric problems, loss in illegal jobs, brave but slave, fond 
of wandering, good habits, stomach ailments, loss of son, dispute with sons, settles 
on a foreign land, more female issues, obstacles in education, fear from water, worries, 
eager, knowledge of mantra - tantra, inauspicious in its own period and sub - period. 


Ifin Aries or Cancer sign - more female issues. Ifin Gemini sign - falls from height. If 
with Moon - shivering problem. If with benefics - service, changes in the profession. 
In female horoscope - intelligent, less sons, sufferings to the co -borns, obstacles in 
education, sufferings to brother either due to injury from arms or gastric problems. If 
aspected by benefics - auspicious. 

Sixth House: 


Defamed by maternal uncle, happiness from animals, narrow minded, quarrelsome, 
head injury due to animal vehicle, sufferings to maternal uncle, head of society, destroyer 
of enemies, brave, ailments of teeth and lips, famous due to higher education. 


If with Moon - relations with rich females, embezzlement of money. If with Mars - 
eager to do some daring work. If afflicted by malefics - wicked, deceitful. 


In female horoscope - destroyer of enemies, Raj yog, good health, owner of agricultural 
land, prosperous, does not have cordial relations with mother. 


A Text Book of Astrology 149 


Seventh House: 


Worries, loss of wealth, danger from water, sufferings from spouse and sons, difference 
of opinion with spouse, gambler, adulterer, insulted by others, relations with wicked 
females, intestinal disease, unsatisfied in marital fife, settles on foreign land, wicked 
wife, dental problems, postponement of journeys, genital problems. 


Ifin Cancer or Scorpio sign - gains. Ifin Capricom sign - wife suffering from ill health 
and is deceitful. 


In female horoscope - opposition from husband, widow, always desirous of making 
journeys, danger from enemies and ill health, sufferings to husband, mentally disturbed, 
loss in profession, danger from water, adulterer if Ketu in Scorpio sign. 


Eighth House: 


Devoid of wealth, accident (vehicle), genital disease, piles, swelling, sexual, wicked, 

injury by arms, short lived, separation from own people, get deceived, loss of wealth, 

disliked by others, malefic at the age of 25, dental problems, danger of falling from 

vehicle, extra marital relations, financial gains through vehicles, signs of small pox on 
face, head injury, irritable, does not get any help from co - borns and near relations, 

harsh wife, chastity of wife is doubtful, always worried about finances. 


If in Aries, Virgo or Scorpio signs — financial gains, stomach problems, constipation. If 
in Gemini, Cancer - gains from vehicles. lf with benefics - malefic at the age of 25. If 
exalted or with strong planets - long life. Ifwith Sun - gains from foreign country, financial 
gains. 


In female horoscope - injury in accident, injury in lower portion of back, deceitful, 
smuggler, gambler, speculator, sudden gain, problems of genital organs, sufferings to 
husband, piles (definite). If in Gemini, Taurus, Virgo signs — financial gains. 


Ninth House: 


Fortunate financial gains from wicked, fear from brothers, loss of wealth, pleasure 
seeker, problems in arms, angry, malefic in its main and sub - periods. 


Ifin Gemini sign - having doubtful character. If in Sagittarius sign -fortunate, intelligent. 
If in Libra sign - number of marriages, death of wife at the time of delivery. If with 
benefics - high status in government. 


In female horoscope - theist, loving sons, no enemy or disease, gains from lower 
caste people, donor, sufferings from brothers, problems in arms. 


Tenth House: 


Fortunate, always suffers, sufferings to father, injury due to fall from horse, ugly, Raj 
yog, leader, respect of preceptor, sufferings to wife, brave, piles, benefic after the age 


150 A Text Book of Astrology 


of 48, even praised by enemies, throat problem, extramarital relations, fear of theft, 
successful in business, irritable, no help from coborns and near relations, wife harsh 
and her chastity doubtful. 


If in Aries, Taurus, Virgo or Scorpio signs - destroyer of enemies, malefic. If in 
Sagittarius sign - involved in social work. If with Moon - full Raj yog. 


In female horoscope - devoid of happiness from father, problems in profession. 
Eleventh House: 


Auspicious from all points of view, fortunate, intelligent, good qualities, famous, unlucky 
children, stomach ailments, number of female issues, piles, successful in all ventures, 
having positions of authority, gains of finances and sons at the age of 45, friends are 
not reliable, unsuccessful in service, injury from animals, journeys and travel, handsome, 
simpler and sweet voice, popular. 


Ifin Gemini sign - poor and ill health. Ifin Sagittarius sign - wealthy. If in own sign or 
with benefic planets-multimillionaire. 


In female horoscope - prosperous, financial gains from deceiving others, fortunate, 
sweet in speech, beautiful, intelligent, stomach ailments. 


Twelfth House: 


Enjoys like king, position of authority, famous, expenditure in good deeds, decision of 
court cases favourable, fear from poisonous substances, genital problems, eyes 
troubles, playful, uses spectacles, not praised by people, relations with other's wife, 
always suffers from chronic disease, independent business, writer, loss from servants, 
ailments in portion below navel, devoid of happiness from maternal uncle, always winner 
in debate, beautiful eyes, settles on foreign land, salvation, ascetic, benevolent. 


If with Venus or Moon - adulterer. If with Mercury or Jupiter - gains business, ascetic. 


In female horoscope - Raj yog, not extravagant, settles on foreign land. If with malefic 
or aspected by malefic planet- foreign travel definite, ailments of legs and eyes, 
sufferings to husband, genital problems. 


A Text Book of Astrology 151 


Chapter-12 
Planetary Combinations or Yogas 


Yoga means combination but in common parlance yoga means a certain definite or 
special combination, which adds strength to the horoscope or removes the vitality 
from it. Human life falls under two categories - Yoga and Arishtas or fortunes and 
misfortunes. Yogas include success in every sphere of life. Arishtas or misfortunes 
include all sorts of miseries of life. A yoga is formed by more than one planet. For 
interpreting yogas, followings are required - 


i: The good and evil lords in a horoscope 


2. The inherent strengths of planets 
3. The residential strength of planets. 


Arishta Yoga : 


In Arishta yoga, longevity of nature is considered. Eighth house is considered as 'AYUS 
STHANA or house of longevity whereas Satur is considered as 'Ayuskaraka' or the 
significator of longevity. The third house is 8* from 8* and therefore it is believed that 
strong unaffiliated Saturn, 8* and 3™ lords make a native long lived, Life span is 
governed by Moon in infancy, by Mars -Venus - Mercury in young age, by Jupiter in 
middle age and by Saturn in old age. 

Long life :- 

(i) IfSun, Moon and Lagna are strong 

(i) | Benefics in 10° House 

(iii Malefics in Upachya houses 

( 

( 


oS 


iv) | Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Sun or Jupiter in 8* House. 
Vv) Benefics deposited in quadrants and trines. 


Medium Life : 


(i) Malefics occupying 2™, 5*, 8*, and 11 * signs or in the 3” or 4* house. 


(ii) A weak lord of Lagna, Jupiter in quadrant, the 5* or 9* sign and a malefic in 6", 
8" or 12” sign. 


(iii) A benefic in quadrant, 5* or 9* sign, a strong Saturn or another malefic in 6* or 
8" sign. 

(iv)  Ifbenefics and malefics together occupy 5* or 9* sign or quadrant. 

Short Life : 


(i) | Moon is in 7* , 8* or 12" from Lagna with malefics without being aspected by 
benefics. 


152 A Text Book of Astrology 


(ii) | Moon in the vicinity of Sun is in 6* house 

(ii) Mars in 7*, Rahu in 9*, Saturn in 1, Jupiter in 3°, and Venus in 6*. 

(v)  Malefics in 2", 6*, 8* and 12 houses. 

Yogas For Low Morale 

(i)  IfMars, Saturn or Rahu is posited in 4* house and when this house and its lord 
are afflicted by other malefics. 

(ii) | Moon or Sun posited in 5" house 

(iii) | Lord of 10 house aspected by another malefic being posited in 4* house 


(iv) | Venus and descending Moon in association with malefics and aspected by 
other malefics posited in 4* house 


(V) Lord of 7" posited in 4* in combination with a malefic and aspected by a malefic. 

Yogas For Deafness 

()  IfMercury is in 4* position from Saturn and lord of 6* house is in 6", 8", or 12% 
house. 

(ii) — Ifbirth is of night and Venus is 10° from Lagna and Mercury in 6* house. 

(iii) — IfLord of 6" in 6" or 12% house and aspected by Saturn 

Yogas For Dumbness 

(i) If Mercury posited in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces sign and Moon and Saturn 
being together aspect Mercury. 


(ii) | Malefics in Scorpio or Pisces signs and Moon in the last degrees of any sign 
being aspected by malefics. 


(iii) If combination as per (i) and (ii) exist but Moon is aspected by benefics, native 
starts speaking late. 


(v) Malefics in 2™ house, lord of 2" house is either combust or debilitated and 
aspected by malefics and Sun and Mercury are in Leo sign 
Yogas For Speech Defects 


(i)  IfSun and Mercury are in Leo sign, native stammers. 


(ii)  IfGemini or Virgo are in 6* house, Malefic is posited or aspecting 2" house 
and Mercury is weak - speech of native is not clear. 


(iii) If Venus of 2° house is in 3 Drekanna - native stammers. 
Yogas For Eyes Troubles 


(i) If Moon is in 12" house, left eye will have problem. If Sun is in 12 house, both 
the eyes will have problem. 


(ii) If both Sun and Moon are in 12 house both the eyes will have trouble. However 
if aspected by benefics trouble will be in old age. 


(ii) | Person will become blind if lord of 2" is associated with lord of 6", 8* or 12" 


A Text Book of Astrology 153 


and occupies Lagna. If Lord of 2° associated with Moon and Venus occupies 
Lagna, night blindness is predicted. 


(iv)  Iflord of Lagna is in 2" house and lord of 2" in 1*, 6* or 8* house and if Rahu 
or Ketu associated with Sun occupies 2" or 12* house, native will be born 
blind. 


(v) If Venus is together with Rahu, the native will have eye trouble. 
(vi If Leo is in the Lagna, native will have eye defect 

(vii) — If Aries is Lagna it may lead to cataract or night blindness. 
(viii) lf Cancer is Lagna, eyes will be dull and unclear. 


Yogas For Wealth 


(i) | Wealth is controlled py lords of 2" 4*, 9 and 11* house and by Moon and 
Jupiter. Iflords of 2” 4* andg" houses are associated either in Lagna chart or 
in Navamsa chart and occupy 1:, 2" or 11* house, they lead to acquisition of 
good wealth. 

(i) — The lord of 2" combined with 9° and occupying 11"with Moon and Jupiter - 
native will be a millionaire. 

(iii) When 2 house is vacant and aspected by Mercury - native becomes a wealthy 
person. 

(v) | Mercury occupying the 2 house and aspected by Moon - blesses the native 
with wealth in abundance. 


(v) _ IfJupiter as lord of 2" house is posited therein and is associated with Mars, 
native is considered as Kuber ( Lord of wealth) 


(vi) The results of SI. No (V) will be repeated if there is an exchange of lords of 2™ 
and 11'" houses. 


Yogas For Sudden Gains Through Speculation Or Gambling 


(i) Strong malefic in the 10" house from Lagna or Moon and aspected by a benefic 
gives much wealth through gambling or lottery. 


iC 


(ii) If Lords of 6" and 11 * house are together and posited in 11 * house, the native 
wins many times in gambling and lottery. 


(iii) 1f5* lord being Venus is in 11" with 6* lord, native wins huge money in horse 
racing. 

(iv) — Person will gain through speculations if lord of 1* and 5* are associated. 

Yogas For Co-borns 

(i) If lord or significator of 3 house is associated with a benefic or if lord of 3° 
house is a benefic or if 3 house is very strong, native will have brothers. 


(ii) If lord or significator of 3° house is in quadrant or trine or in exaltation, friend's 
house or own sign, the native will have brothers. 


154 A Text Book of Astrology 


(iii) If Mercury is in 3° house and lord of 3“ is associated with Moon and significator 
of 3“ house is associated with Saturn, there will be an elder sister and a younger 
brother. 


(v) _ If significator of 3° house is associated with Rahu or if lord of 3 house is in 
debilitation, native will not have any younger brother. 


(v) _ Iflord of 3" house and Mars are posited in 8* and are associated with a malefic, 
brothers will be born but will not remain alive. 


(vi) If3" house is associated with a malefic and Lore of 3 house conjoins a malefic, 
the native will have stepbrothers. 


(vil) If lord of 3 is in an even sign or Navamsa and if significator of 3" house is in 
3%, the native will get a sister. 


(viii) If Mercury, Moon, Mars and Jupiter are posited in 3“ and 11 * from Lagna and 
Lagna lord, native will have number of brothers but if Ketu is posited in such 
position native will have more sisters. 


(x) If Sun is in 3° house native will not have elder brother and if Mars is there, 
native will not have younger brother. 
Yogas For Conveyance 


()) — IfLord of 4" house is in 4” along with Mercury and aspected by benefic. 

(ii) If lord of 4», Moon and Lagna are posited in quadrants. 

(iii) IfMercury in exaltation is posited in quadrants or trines. 

(v) _ Iflords of 4 and 10" are strong and posited in 11 * or are aspecting 4* house. 


Yogas For Progeny 


(i)  Iflord of Lagna is in 5" and lord of 5* is in Lagna and Jupiter is posited in 
quadrant or trine, native with have many children. 


(ii) If lord of 5" is in exaltation and lord of Lagna is associated with a benefic - 
native will have number of children. Similar results are predicted if benefic 
aspects or is associated with 5* house, the lord of 5* or Jupiter. 


(iii) If Jupiter is strong and lord of Lagna is in 5* and lord of 5* is also strong, native 
will have number of children. 


(iv) If fifth house is occupied by Taurus, Cancer or Libra sign and Moon or Venus 
are either posited in or aspect fifth house, native will have number of children. 


(v) If Moon, Mercury or Venus are posited in 11 * house, number of daughters will 
be more. 


Yogas For Marriage 
a Timely Marriage : 


(a) If, Moon, Rahu or Venus are in 7" house or lord of 7* and 1*are associated. 
(b) — Ifbenefic planets are posited close to cusp of 1*or 7* house. 


A Text Book of Astrology 155 


(c) Ketu aspected by benefics in 7* house 

(d) Lord of 7" is aspected by Jupiter or Venus 

2. Late Marriage : 

(a) When Rahu - Ketu axis passes very close to Lagna, Venus or Moon 
(b) Saturn, Sun or Mars are posited in 7" house 
( 


C) Moon in 4* /10" house in case of a male and Sun in 4* / 10" house in case of 
a female. 


(d) | When two or three malefic planets one posited in 1:/ 2"? /5* /7* / 8% /12% 
house from Lagna, Moon or Venus. 


(e) When Venus- Mercury, Venus - Saturn, Saturn - Moon combination are formed 
or Saturn is posited in 7'°/8" houses from Venus. 
No Marriage 


(a) If Venus or lord of 7* is hemmed between Sun and Saturn 


(b) Rahu or Ketu in 7" house and being aspected or conjoined with at least two 
malefics. 


(c) Moon and Venus are in opposition to Mars and Saturn 

(d) Mars or Saturn is posited in 7" house from Moon or Venus. 

(e) 2" / 4* /7* /12 houses and Venus are afflicted and devoid of benefic aspects. 
Panch Maha Purusha Yogas 


(1) Hamsa Yoga : 


For this yoga Jupiter should be in quadrant which should be his own or exaltation sign. 
Native born in this yoga will be very powerful like a king. He will have marks of conch, 
lotus, fish and ankles on legs. He will have handsome body and will be immensely rich. 
He will be liked by others. He will be righteous in disposition and pure in mind. 


(2) Bhadra Yoga : 


For this yoga Mercury should be in quadrant which should be his own or exaltation 
sign. The native born in this yoga is strong, having lion - like face, well developed 
chest, well proportioned limbs. He will help relatives and will have very long life. The 
native with such yoga is intelligent, learned, gifted with wealth. 


(3) Ruchak Yoga : 


For this yoga Mars should be in quadrant which should be his own or exaltation sign. 
Native born in this yoga will have strong built, famous, well - versed in ancient lore, 
equal to king and conforming to traditions and customs. He will have ruddy complex, 
attractive body, charitable disposition, wealthy, long - lived and leader of an army. 


156 A Text Book of Astrology 


(4) Malavya Yoga : 


For this yoga Venus should be in quadrant which should be his own or exaltation sign. 
The native born in this yoga shall have strong physique and strong mind. He will be 
wealthy and blessed with good wife and children. He will enjoy good conveyance, 
comforts and pleasures. He will be renowned and learned. 


(5) Sasa Yoga : 


For this yoga Saturn should be in quadrant which should be his own or exaltation sign. 
The native born in this yoga shall command good servants and will be of questionable 
character. He will be head of a village or town, will covet other's riches and will be 
wicked in disposition. 


Gaja Kesari Yoga 


This yoga is formed when Jupiter is in quadrant from Moon. Native born in the yoga 
with have many relations, will be polite and generous and will be builder of village or 
town. He will be prosperous, renowned and will have reputation long lasting even after 
death. 


Amala Yoga 


This yoga is formed when 10from Moon or Lagna is occupied by a benefic planet. 
Native born in the yoga will achieve lasting fame and reputation. His character will be 
spotless and will lead a prosperous life. 


Parvata Yoga 


According to Phaldeepika this yoga is formed when lord of Lagna is posited in quadrant 
or trine identical with his own sign, Mool - trikona sign or exaltation sign. According to 
Jatak Parijata this yoga is formed under following ways : 


(a) Benefics in quadrant while 8* and 12" are free. 
(6) Lord of Lagna and 12"*in mutual angles and aspected by friendly planets. 


Native born in the yoga shall be prosperous, wealthy, liberal, charitable, humorous and 
head of town or village. 


Vasi Yoga 


This yoga is formed when planet other than Moon occupies 12" position from Sun. 
The native born in the yoga is happy, prosperous, liberal and favorite of govt. 


Vesi Yoga 


This yoga is formed when planet other than Moon occupies 2™ position from Sun. The 
native born in the yoga will be fortunate, happy, virtuous, famous and aristocratic. 


A Text Book of Astrology 157 


Obhaya Chari Yoga 


This yoga is formed when planets other than Moon are present on either side of Sun. 
The native born in this yoga shall be eloquent speaker having well proportioned limbs. 
He will be liked by others, prosperous and famous. 


Sunapha Yoga 


This yoga is formed when planet other than Sun is posited in 2" position from Moon. 
Native will be intelligent, wealthy, having self earned property. He will enjoy good 
reputation. 


Anapha Yoga 


This yoga is formed when a planet other than Sun is posited in 12" position from 
Moon. The Native will have well - formed organs, majestic appearance, polite, 
generous. He will be enjoying good reputation and will be successful in politics. 


Dhurdhura Yoga 


This yoga is formed when planets other then Sun are posited on either side of Moon. 
Native will be blessed with wealth and enjoy good conveyances. 


Kemadruma Yoga 


This yoga is formed when there are no planets on either side of moon. The native will 
be dirty, sorrowful, interested in unrighteous deeds, poor, dependent, rogue and 
swindler. 


Kemadruma Bhanga Yoga 

This yoga is formed under following circumstances - 

(i) If Moon and Venus are in quadrant and aspected by Jupiter. 

(ii) Strong Moon is in exaltation or own sign. 

(iii) Moon being posited in Navamsa sign of his intimate friend is aspected by Jupiter. 
Kahala Yoga 


This yoga is formed if lords of 4* and 9* houses are in quadrant from each other and 
lord of Lagna is strongly disposed. Native will be stubborn, daring, head of an 
organization. 


Sankha Yoga 


This yoga is formed if lords of 5" and 6* are in mutual quadrant and lord of Lagna is 
powerful. Native will be fond of pleasures, blessed with good wife and children, learned 
in sciences, doing good deeds and having long life. 


Chamar Yoga 
This yoga is formed when Lagna lord being in exaltation is posited in quadrant and 


158 A Text Book of Astrology 


aspected by Jupiter or benefics are posited in Lagna, 7", 9", and 10*houses. Native 
will be good orator, intelligent, successful in politics, and having long life. 


Bheri Yoga 


This yoga is formed if Venus, lord of Lagna and Jupiter are in mutual quadrant and lord 
of 9* house is powerfully disposed. Native will be long lived, enjoying good health, 
wealthy, happy in married life. 


Mridanga Yoga 


This yoga is formed if lord of Navamsa occupied by an exalted planet is posited in a 
trine or quadrant identical with friendly or exalted sign and lord of Lagna is strongly 
disposed. The native is respected by others, famous, attractive and commands 
influence. 


Sreenatha Yoga 


This yoga is formed if exalted lord of 7" house occupies 10" and lord of 10* is with 9* 
lord. Native will be successful in politics, will have impressive personality and enjoy 
married life. 


Sarda Yoga 


This yoga is formed when Sun is in own sign, Mercury is in quadrant and 10*lord is in 
5* house or Mars is in 11 * house and Mercury or Jupiter are posited in 9* from Moon. 
This yoga makes native very happy with wife and children and enjoys company of 
good friends. He is learned and gets favour from government. 


Matsya Yoga 


This yoga is formed when Lagna and 9* are conjoined with malefics, 5* by both malefics 
and benefices and 4* and 8* by malefics. This makes native benevolent, polite, 
intelligent, educated, handsome, religious, famous and learned. 


Kurma Yoga 


This yoga is formed when benefics occupy 5", 6*, and 7" houses and then join their 
exaltation, own or friendly Navamsa or when benefics occupy 1°", 3 and 11houses 
identical with their exaltation, own or friendly signs. The native will be world famous, 
righteous, courageous, happy, helpful to others, leader with mild temperament. 


Kharag Yoga 


This yoga is formed when there is an exchange of 2" and 9" lords and Lagna lord is 
posited in quadrant or trine. The native will be learned, happy, influential, virtuous, 
successful and prosperous. 


Lakshmi Yoga 


This yoga is formed when Lagna lord is strong and lord of 9* occupies own or exaltation 
sign Identical with quadrant or trine. The native will be wealthy, noble, learned, and 
handsome and will enjoy all comforts of life. 


A Text Book of Astrology 159 


Kusuma Yoga 


if Jupiter is in Lagna, the Moon in 7" and the Sun is in 8* from the Moon, Kusuma yoga 
is formed. The native will be a political leader or a senior bureaucrat and enjoys fame. 
The native is learned and prosperous. 


Kalanidhi Yoga 


This yoga is formed when Jupiter is conjoined or aspected by Mercury and Venus 
either in 2” or in 5* fine and Jupiter must occupy own signs of Mercury or Venus. The 
native will be highly passionate, good-natured, respected by govt., enjoying comfort of 
conveyances, aristocrat and enjoys good health. 

Samrajya Yoga 


This yoga is formed when if lord of 9", 10* or 2™ house is either with Moon or in 
quadrant with Moon and lord of 11"house is Jupiter. The native will be prosperous, 
owner of village or town and honoured by govt. 


Sakata Yoga 


This yoga is formed when Moon is in 6", 8" or 12* from Jupiter. The native will be 
unfortunate, suffers from miseries, stubbom and hated by relatives. 


Chapa Yoga 
This yoga is formed when Lagna lord is exalted and there is exchange of lords of 4* 
and 10" .The native with be wealthy, control the treasury and honoured by govt. 


Adhi Yoga 


This yoga is formed when all the benefics are posited in 6* , 7* and 8* from Moon. 
The native will be polite, trustworthy, affluent, healthy, and prosperous and enjoys happy 
and luxurious life. 


Dur Yoga 


This yoga is formed when lord of 10*is posited in 6*, 8* or 12" house. Native will not 
derive the fruits of his effects, looked down by others, will be selfish and will have 
problems in profession. 


Daridra Yoga 


This yoga is formed when lord of 11* is in 6* , 8* , or 12" house. The native will be 
under huge debts, will remain poor and will suffer from auditory troubles. 


Andha Yoga 


This yoga is formed when Mercury and Moon are in 2 house or lords of Lagna and 
2" join 2 house with Sun. the native will have defective sight during night or may be 
born blind. 


QO 


160 A Text Book of Astrology 


minutes alia arch minutes 
Degrees or Hours 3 
z 6} 7 Z 
1.0792 7781 | 6812 } 6021 5351 0 
1.0756 7763; 6798 | 6009 5341 1 
1.0720) 8983] 7745] 6784 | 5997 5330 2 
1.0685) 8959) 7728) 6769 | 5985 5320 3 
1.0649) 8935] 7710] 6755.) 5973 5310 4 
1.0614) 8912} 7692} 6741 | 5961 5300 5 
1.0580) 8888] 7674} 6726 | 5949 5289 6 
1.0546 7657) 6712 | 5937 5279 7 
1.0511 7639} 6698 | 5925 5269 8 
1.0478 7622) 6684 | 5913 5259 9 
reoay 6670 5902 5249 
7587) 6656 | 5890 5239 
7570) 6642 | 5878 5229 
7552) 6628 | 5866 5219 
7535) 6614 | 5855 5209 
7518) 6600 | 5843 5199 
7501) 6587 | 5832 5189 
7484) 6573 | 5820 5179 
7467) 6559 | 5809 5169 
7451 | 6546 | 5797 5159 


6532 
6519 
6505 
6492 
6478 
6465 
1335| 6451 
7318| 6438 
7302| 6425 
7286| 6412 
7270| 6398 
7254| 6385 
7238| 6372 
7222| 6359 
7206| 6346 
7190] 6333 
7174} 6320 
7159| 6307 
7143| 6294 
7128 | 6282 


7434 
7417 
7401 
7384 
7368 
7351 


O O 
6256 
6243 
6231 
6218 
6205 
6193 
6180 
6168 
6155 
6960] 6143 
6945] 6131 
~930) 6118 
6915] 6106 
6900} 6094 
6885| 6081 


7081 
7066 
7050 
7035 
7020 
7005 


6856} 6057 


A Text Book of Astrology 


5786 
5774 
5763 
5752 
5740 
5729 
5718 
5706 
5695 
5684 
5673 
5662 
5651 
5640 
5629 
5618 
5607 


minutes art arf minutes 
Degrees or Hours 


e 


M invte 


SO2COSOM OUI: ONO ee joiut 


WOANHDUNBWNHPO 


Pte ite be be bo leis | a | te 


162 A Text Book of Astrology 


