Vedic Astrology Series 


A Textbook of 


Varshaphala 


Vedic Technique of the Tajika 
or 


Annual Horoscopy 


Dr. K § Charak 


M.S. (SURGERY), FACS (UK} 


UMA 


Publications 


PREFACE TO THE 
THIRD EDITION 


A Texthook of Varshaphala las been acclaimed the world over 
as the most systematic, lucid and comprehensive work on the 
subject of Varshaphala. It has over the years also established 
the authenticity of this highly charming branch of Vedic 
astrology. The highly scientific approach adopted in the 
treatment of this subject has aroused the interest of many a 
student of Vedic astrology in this field where only a select few 
used to tread earlier. 

The book is now in its third edition. It has been completely 
revised and updated. The chapter on “Yogas’ has been enlarged 
and some new material added to it. The general format of the 
book, however, remains unchanged. Vinay Aditya has made 
useful suggestions which have been incorporated in the present 
addition. YS Rawat has done a wonderful job by presenting 
it in its present form. 


Dr. KS Ciarak 

72 Gagan Vihar 

Delhi-110 051 (India) 

July 1, 2006 Phone: 91-11-2254 3563 


PREFACE TO THE 
FIRST EDITION 


Ever since I started teaching astrology in the Bharatiya Vidya 
Bhawan, I felt the need to systematise my own knowledge and 
to organise it lesson by lesson for the students. Since J have been 
doing various branches of astrology now for over twenty years, 
I have gone through numerous books on the subject, reading and 
re-reading many of them, and find one essential difference 
between our method of teaching astrology and the style of writing 
in the books available. Since we face students with a high 
educational background (doctors, engineers, businessmen, lawyers, 
bureaucrats, retired officials, etc.), it becomes absolutely necessary 
for us to illustrate through actual horoscopes all the astrological 
points being taught, clarified and elaborated. To do it regularly, 
as we have to in the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan, is a much tougher 
task than reading a paper in a seminar, answering some questions 
and later forgetting all about it. The available astrological texts 
are sadly deficient in actual horoscopic illustrations. 

The subject of this book, the Tajika or the annual horoscopy, 
has been rather overwhelmingly dominated by the natal 
horoscopy. Recently, however, the need to resort to annual 
horoscopy has been increasing in our industrial society where 
career planning, travel planning, work planning and job planning 
are done within a specified time-table of one to, say, five years. 
In which of the next five years it would be more fruitful to start 
a venture is a question many people ask. This question is generally 
answered on the basis of the birth horoscope, the dasha periods 
and transits. The question is, whether such pinpointed guidance 
and counselling can be further refined and put in sharp focus 
astrologically? As a doctor, I am accustomed to employing series 
of tests for the diagnosis of a disease. As an astrologer, it appeals 


¥ 


to me to foresee the same event by employing different 
astrological techniques to the birth chart, like the Vimshottari 
dasha, the Jaimini Chara dasha and, where necessary, even the 
Ashtakavarga. I have not seen a single instance where what is 
promised in the birth chart is not more clearly reflected in the 
Tajika concerned. 

The Tajika takes care of ail those areas that are covered by 
the natal horoscopy. Thus it can reveal about health and disease, 
marriage, child birth, income, expenditure, promotions, transfer, 
travel, rise and fall in career, imprisonment, death, etc. It is true 
to say that the Tajika cannot give what the birth horoscope does 
not promise. It is truer to say that the Tajika reveals, with greater 
clarity, the year in which the promise of the birth horoscope will 
be fulfilled, The Tajika is thus complimentary, supplementary and 
confirmatory in nature. What the Tajika reveals is vital not vast 
as the birth chart does, pivotal though not a plethora of details; 
and all this within the rigid time-frame of one year. It is an 
astrologer’s precision instrument. The Tajika should be invariably 
made use of for giving important predictions though only after 
a thorough examination of the birth chart. 

An incidental advantage of the Tajika could sometimes be to 
correct someone's birth time marginally. 

While this book has been planned as explained in the 
summary at the end, it is relevant to point to a couple of ticklish 
areas, among others, which had to be tackled. The first was to 
explain the sixteen well-known ‘Tajika yogas without which the 
entire edifice of the annual horoscopic reading collapses. These 
yogas have been dealt with in two ways: first, through definition, 
illustration and exhaustive comments, and later, through 
tabulation of all these in a chart form for an easy and clear 
understanding. No serious student of annual horoscopy can afford 
to miss these yogas as they reveal remarkably the nature of results 
that can be expected. Needless to say that this calls for a correct 
casting of the annual chart. [fin @ particular year, the annual lagna 
falls on the borderline between two rashis, one bas to be extra careful. 
Similarly, where the correct degrees of planets indicate a happy 
Ithasala, any miscalculation may make it look otherwise. While there 
are some computer programmes that provide accurate annual 
horoscopes, one must be cautious in accepting any computer-cast 


vi 


chart as there are numerous computers which have been 
incorrectly programmed, and provide wrong data. 

Another difficulty was to obtain the right horoscopes with 
specific events of specific years for illustrations. Fortunately our 
individual collection and mutual sharing of data helped overcome 
this problem. 

This book covers all the relevant aspects of annual horoscopy 
and, at places, suggests areas of further research. It has been 
profusely illustrated. It is hoped that it effectively fills 2 long-felt 
void in the field of annual horoscopy. The list of illustrations 
appended in the beginning may be profitably gone through only 
after going through the relevant text. 

The quotations for the various chapters have been taken from 
The Vedic Experience by Raimundo Panikkar, and The Flute Calls 
Stii/ by Dilip Kumar Roy and Indira Devi. 


September 1, 1993 Dr K S CuHarak 


CONTENTS 


Preface to the Third Edition 


Preface to the First Edition 


List of Illustrations 


ig 


IL. 


ITI. 


Introduction : Varshaphala; solar year; the Tajika 
system; special features of the Tajika; the. Tajika 
aspects; planetary relations in the Tajika; sex of 
planets; lord of the year; yogas; Sahams; the 


. Muntha; the Tri-pataki; relation between the annual 


chart and the birth chart. 


General Considerations : Anatomy of the chart; 
the north and the south Indian charts; the houses; 
significance of the houses; the planets; the zodiac; 
the rashis or signs; characteristics of the rashis; 
planetary lordships; benefic and matlefic planets; 
natural planetary relations; exaltation and debilitation; 
Moolatrikona signs; aspects; combustion and 
retrogression; directions; significations of planets; 
the nakshatras; the vargas. 


Casting the Annual Chart: The Solar cycle; 
Varshapravesha; Dhruvanka; preparing the annual 
chart; example of a birth chart; mid-points of 
houses and longitudes of planets in the annual 
chart; Varsha-pravesha by the ancient method; 
annual chart for the subsequent year. 


iii 


iv 


10 


24 


10. 


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 


Illustration Subject Treated 

I-1 Tajika aspects. 

II-1 Casting of the birth chart. 

1-2 Casting of the annual chart. 

Vil-1 Determination of the year lord; significance of 
Venus as the year lord in effecting marriage; Vivaha 
Saham. 

X-1 The Example Chart (same as Chart III-2). This 
chart has been referred to several times in relation 
to various Tajika yogas and Sahams. 

X-2 The birth chart of the native referred to in the 
Example Chart (same as Chart JII-1). Analysis of 
the Vimshottari dasha for the period for which the 
annual chart has been cast, to see from the birth 
chart the promise during the year; Punya Saham 
in the birth chart. 

X-3 — Ikabala yoga; fail in status; Punya Saham and Raja 
Saham. 

X-4  Induvara yoga; exacerbation of illness. 

X-5 An adverse Rashyanta Muthsil yoga; Poorna 
Ithasala. 

X-6  Ithasalas: Vartamana, Poorna and Rashyanta; 


illness to the native; gains from inheritance; 


11. 


12. 
13. 


14. 
15. 


16. 


17. 
18. 
19. 


20, 
21. 


22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 


Hlustration Subject Treated 


XI-4 


procucement of a house and a vehicle; death of 
a brother. 


Poorna Ithasala and Bhavishyat Ithasala respectively 
indicating events occurring in the beginning of the 
year and at the end of it; Dwi-janma year indicating 
adverse results. 


A possible variation of Bhavishyat Ithasala. 


Ishrafa yoga between the lagna lord and a retrograde 
lord of the eighth house; Punya Saham; Mrityu 
Saham. 


Nakta yoga involving a double Ithasala. 


Nakta yoga involving an ithasala and an Ishrafa; 
Putra, Vivaha, Punya and Bandhana Sahams. 


Nakta yoga involving a double Ishrafa; adverse 
placement of the birth ascendant in the annual 
chart. 


Yamaya yoga involving a double Ithasala. 
Yamaya yoga partially handicapped, 

A powerful Kamboola yoga; a neutralised Manau 
yoga. 

A Kamboola yoga of average strength. 


A hypothetical planetary position explaining a 
Gairi-Kambooila yoga. 


Afflicted Raja Saham and fail from power. 
Bandhana Saham; imprisonment. 
Bandhana Saham; imprisonment. 


Deshantara Saham, foreign travel. 


Xil 


XI-5 
XII-1 


XII-2 
XII-3 


AII-4 


XII-5 
XII-6 


mee ab ys 


XI-8 
XHI-1 


Tlustration Subject Treated 


Mnrityu Saham; death. 


The Dwi-janma year: recurrence of the birth lagna 
as the lagna in the annual chart producing adverse 
results. 


Another example of the Dwi janma year. 


Birth of a child from Ithasala between the lagna 
lord and the fifth lord; adverse results from a 
Dwi-janma year; ill health from Ithasala between 
the lagna lord and the sixth lord. 


Ithasala between the lagna lord and the fifth lord; 
child birth. 


Multiple afflictions; death. 


Indications for marriage; use of the Hudda of the 
lagna. 

Marriage; use of the Hudda of the lagna. 
Multiple adverse factors; death. 


Maasa-pravesha Kundali or the monthly chart: an 
example. 


CHAPTER | 
INTRODUCTION 


“O Thou wha art the Root of the Tree of Life, 

As also the last Asylum of repose, 

When ends the cycle of Thy Cosmic play! 

Who com’st as Grace to foster flowering prayer! 
They are deluded by the Siren Maya 

Who behold Thy Self as disparate : not so 

Those blessed ones who have won through to vision. 
For they in all that is see Thee alone 

As the Everliving Sun-love - in whose light 

All shines and the last mystery stands revealed.” 


‘BHAGAVATA PURANA’ 


The Varshaphala, or the Annual Horoscopy as it may be called, 
is one of the scores of techniques of Vedic astrology employed 
to understand the occurrence of future events. While the 
Parashari system, which is more prevalent, is much more ancient, 
the Varshaphala in its present form is of relatively more recent 
origin. The Parashan system found its origin with the rishis of 
yore, those marvels of human beings whose intellectual excellence 
the best of present day computers cannot match. Therefrom, this 
system found its way to the King’s court or the durhar, and 
eventually shrank into the family tradition as the kingships 
gradually waned. The Varshaphala originated in the duréar itself. 
It was developed as an offshoot of the Parashari system to provide 
a more spontaneous and quick answer to the usual problems of 
the kings, like conquests, prosperity, succession, etc. The Prashna, 
or the Horary astrology, is closely related to the Varshaphala and 
appears to have a similar origin and utility. The Varshaphala is 


2 


more popular in northern India though it is used everywhere. 
The Urdu word 7ajiza for Varshaphala too signifies its popularity 
in northern India where Urdu has been the dominant language. 

Inherent to the Vedic astrology is the construction of a chart 
of the heavens, with the placement of the grahas, poorly translated 
as planets, in different houses and signs in the chart. In the 
annual, or the progressed, horoscope (or the Varsha-Kundali) too, 
a chart is constructed and the special principles of Varshaphala 
employed to forecast events. The annual horoscopy differs from 
the rest in the fact that it picks up one particular year of a native’s 
life and examines it in more minute details. Going into greater 
minuteness, each month of a particular year, and further, each 
day or half-a-day during a month, may be subjected to 
astrological scrutiny for the clearest view of events and their 
closest timing possible. Such a calculatton would naturally 
demand greater labour on the part of the astrologer. The 
Varshaphala is thus capable of providing a magnified view of one 
particular year of a native's life, from one birthday to the next. 

The usual horoscope is generally cast for the time of birth of 
a native, The Varshaphala, however, is solar-based. In other words, 
it is the position of the Sun that is of significance here. THe sofar 
year for a native begins every time the Sun returns to the same 
longitude as it had at the time of the native's birth. Between this 
time and the next solar return is the period covered by one annual 
chart or the Varsha-Kundali. The time of solar return is 
technically called Varshapravesha, which literally means ‘entry of 
the year. A Varsha-Kundali is a chart constructed for the 
Varshapravesha determined for a particular year of life. Such an 
annual chart is meant to be constructed for every year, and 
examined in details in order to derive maximum benefit from 
astrological foresight. 


THE TAJIKA SYSTEM 


There are three major systems of astrology as applied to individual 
charts. 


(a) The Parashari 
(b) The Jaimini 
(c) The Varshaphala or the annual horoscopy. 


The first two are called as the Jataka or the Hora Shastra. The 
last one is known as the 7ajika Shastra (or the Tajaka Shastra}. 
The most popular of these is the Parashari system which forms 
the background against which the other systems are studied and 
evaluated. The Tajika or the annual horoscopy resembles the. 
Parashari system in numerous ways. Thus, the houses and planets 
in the annual chart have the same significance as they have in 
the Parashari system. The detailed method involved in the. 
casting of the horoscope, and constructing of the vargas or the 
divisional charts, like the Navamsha, the Drekkana, the Hora, 
the Saptamsha, the Dwadashamsha, the Trimshamsha, etc., is the 
same. [he Tajika, like the Parashari, also has an elaborate system 
of ‘dashas’ or operational periods so necessary for the timing of 
events. These dasha systems are a remarkable feature of Vedic 
astrology. 


Special Features of the Tajika 


The Tajika system has certain special features which make. it 
distinct. These may be briefly described below. 

1. Specified duration : One Varshaphala or annual chart applies 
to a specified period of one year only, and extends from one solar 
return to the next, thus covering one solar year. For any 
subsequent year of life, another Varsha~Kundli has to be prepared. 

2. A transit chart : The annual chart is basically a transit chart. 
What is considered here is the transit of various planets at the 
exact moment of solar return. This moment of solar return is. 
highly significant. The position of various planets at this moment 
of time holds sway over events for the next one year. 

Being ‘a transit chart in essence, the Varshaphala does not apply 
independent of the birth chart. Any attempt to prognosticate events 
on the basis of the annual chart without first taking into 
consideration the analysis of the birth chart is, therefore, doomed 
to failure. It is mandatory to analyse the birth chart thoroughly 
before proceeding to analyse the annual chart. What ts not 
promised in the birth chart ts not hkely to materialise. whether or not. 
the annual chart indicates it. The proper use of the Varshaphala 
is to see more clearly and more definitely the events promised 
in the birth chart. The special feature of this transit chart is that 
it holds true for a period of one year. 


The Varshaphala is, however, also an improvement over a 
simple transit in that it involves the use of certain operational 
periods or dashas as are employed in relation to the birth chart 
for the timing of events. There are various dasha systems used 
in the Varsha chart, and these understandably apply to the one 
year in question. While the Mahadasha (MD), the Antardasha 
(AD) and the Pratyantar-dasha (PD) in the birth chart help in 
the uming of events fairly closely, the dashas in the Varshaphala 
ensure a Still closer timing, reaching upto the nearest day an event 
is likely to take place. 

It may, however, be added here that the annual horoscopy has 
been less often employed in the recent past. A lot of research 
needs to be done before some of its principles attain the same 
infallibility as those of the widely practised Parashari system. For 
example, our understanding of the Tajika dashas and their application 
needs greater research before we obtain consistent results. Several other 
aspects of the Tajika are, however, better understood and provide 
dazzling results. 

3. Aspects: Planets not only exert influence over the house 
where they are located, they also extend their influence over the 
houses and planets which they aspect. In turn, they are influenced, 
favourably or otherwise, by the other aspecting planets. In the 
Tajika system, the aspects are different from those in the Parashari 
system. The Tajika aspects are of three types: 


(a) Friendly (Mitra Drishti): A planet exerts a friendly aspect 
on houses and planets placed in the houses 3, 5, 9, and 11 
when counted from itself. In turn, it receives friendly 
aspect from planets located in these houses. In other words, 
planets placed in the houses 3, 5, 9, and 11 from each other 
become friends. The friendly aspect is further divided into 
two types: , 


(i) Very friendly (Pratyaksha Mitra) : Between plancts located 
in 5/9 from each other. 


(ii) Semi-friendly or secretly friendly (Gupta Mitra) : Between 
planets located in 3/11 from each other. 


SG 
et 


Inimical (Shatru Drishit): Pianets become enemies of each 
other when they are located in kendras (houses 1, 4, 7 and 


10}? from each other. The inimical aspects are also of two 

types: 

(i) Openly inimical (Pratyaksha Shatru): Between planets 
located in houses 1/7 from each other. 


(ii) Secretly inimical (Gupta Shatru) : Between planets located 
in houses 4/10 from each other. 


(c) Neutral (Sama Drishti): Planets exert neutral influence (or 
no influence) on each other when they are placed in houses 
2, 12, 6 or 8 from each other. 


Similarly, the houses 2, 12, 6 and 8 from any planet receive 
no aspect from the planet in question. 

As an example, in the chart” here, the Sun and Mercury, being 
located in the same house, are inimical towards each other’. They 
are also inimical towards the Moon and Mars which fall in 
kendras from them. With Jupiter they are friendly since Jupiter 
is placed in the third house from them. They are neutral toward 
Venus and Saturn, respectively in the second and eighth from 
them. For the Moon, Venus and Saturn are friends, the Sun, 


Chart I-1 


April 10, 1954 


1, This is identical with the westem method where kendra aspects are held inimical. 
The great Varahamihira, however, gives special importance to the kendras 
without holding the plancts located in chem as overtly inimical. 


2. See next chapter for orientation about the north Indian and the south Indian 
charts. 


3. This also is a standard method of interpreting the Vimshorttari dasha-antardasha 
of planets located together. 


6 


Mercury and Mars are enemies, while Jupiter is neutral. Similarly, 
other planetary relationships can be worked out. 

4. Sex of planets: According to the Tayika system, the male 
planets are the Sun, Mars and Jupiter, while the female planets 
are the Moon, Mercury, Venus and Saturn. This is at variance 
with the Parashari concepts. The male planets gain strength 
during day time, and in the masculine houses in the annual chart. 
The female planets gain strength during night time, and when 
they are located in the feminine houses. This knowledge will be 
used in a subsequent chapter dealing with the strength of planets. 

5. Lord of the year: One of the seven planets (from the Sun 
to Saturn, excluding Rahu and Kety) is supposed to hold 
rulership over the entire year. The events of the year are 
significantly influenced by the strength and disposition of this 
ruler, also called the Varshesha or the Varsheshwara. While 
analysing the special yogas in an annual chart, some authorities 
attach the same significance to the Varshesha as they do to the 
lagna lord. The determination of the Varshesha involves an 
elaborate method which is a characteristic of the annual 
horoscopy. 

6. The sixteen yogas: A yoga in astrology is a specific 
disposition of one or more planets which attains the capability 
of producing a specific result. In any given horoscope, it is the 
nature and quality of the yogas that make or mar a horoscope. 
In the Tajika system, sixteen yogas are described. These are 
different from the Parashari yogas in their formation and 
influence. In most of the Tajika yogas, the lagna lord is a 
significant constituent. As already mentioned, some authorities 
consider these yogas as also forming in relation to the Varshesha. 
The orbs of influence of the various planets, and the Tajika 
aspects as mentioned above, are the two cardinal principles 
around which most of these yogas revolve. The countless yogas 
encountered in the Parashar system are generally not applied to 
the annual chart. ‘ 

An understanding of the yogas in the Tajika is the key to 
successful predictions based on the annual chart. These very 
yogas are also applicable to the Prashna Kundali or the Horary 
chart which also makes use of the Tajika aspects as mentioned 
earlier. 


7. Sabams: A unique feature of the Tajika system is the 
determination of certain sensitive points or Sahams. Each such 
sensitive point or Saham is meant to shed light on one particular 
aspect of life during the year in question. For example, there will 
be one Saham for marriage as there will be one for child birth. 
Similarly, there is a different Sahar for each of the other such 
mundane events as love, sorrow, joy, success, foreign travel, 
education, monetary gains, disease, death, and the like. 
Practitioners of Varshaphala pick up for study only such Sahams 
in respect of a particular native during a particular year as are 
relevant. 

8. The Muntha: Another sensitive and generally auspicious 
point in the annual chart is the Muntha. The location of the 
Muntha in the annual chart and the planets aspecting or 
associating with it, as also its sign lord, are all important in 
influencing the events during the year for which the annual chart 
is being considered, 

9, The Tri-Pataki map: The Tri-Pataki map is another special 
feature of the Varshaphala. In this, the twelve rashis or signs are 
labelled on the twelve points of the Tri-Pataki, and the various 
planets marked on these rashis after working out their progression 
since birth. Jn the Tri-Pataki, the benefic and malefic influences on 
the Moon are generally considered. 


Relation Between the Annual Chart and the Birth Chart 


It has been already emphasised that the annual chart is essentially 
a transit chart and, therefore, cannot be taken into consideration 
in isolation. The annual chart can only shed more light on a 
promise indicated in the birth chart. What is not indicated in 
the birth chart cannot come to pass during the’year in question 
even if the annual chart may indicate it. TAts fact must be 
particularly borne in mind when the annual chart indicates such 
untoward events as death, disease or accidents. The birth chart 
naturally takes precedence over transits. 

That the annual chart is an ingenious projection of the birth 
chart only can be ascertained when the following factors are 
considered, 

1. The Suns longitude: The longitude of the Sun at birth 
forms the basis of the annual chart. The Sun thus retains the 


8 


same rashi position in the annual chart, as also in its divisional 
charts, as it does at the time of birth. 

2. The importance of birth lagna: The disposition of the birth 
ascendant in the annual chart is significant in that it influences 
the. events occurring during the year. Even more significant is 
the importance of the lord of the lagna in the birth chart. The 
lagna lord of the birth horoscope is one of the five office bearers 
in the annual chart; one of the five office bearers eventually 
qualifies for the post of the Varshesha or the year lord, The birth 
lagna lord is thus a regular claimant for the post of the Varshesha 
every year. 

Also related to the birth ascendant is the Muntha which 
constitutes an important link between the birth chart and the 
annual chart. The Muntha is located in the lagna at the time 
of birth. It progresses by one sign during one solar year. It is 
thus the birth ascendant in progression. Important events happening 
during the year can be explained according to the disposition of 
the Muntha as well as that of the year lord. 

3. The Tri-Pataki : The Tri-Pataki chart consists of placement 
of planets in relation to Varsha lagna, after working out their 
progression in relation to their position at birth. The Tri-Pataki 
thus makes use of the ascendant in the annual chart, and the 
planetary position in the birth chart. 

4. Nakshatra dashas: The Parashari dashas are nakshatra- 
based. In other words, they depend upon the nakshatra or the 
constellation of the Moon in the birth chart. Some of these 
nakshatra dashas, when reduced to a period of one year, find their 
use in the annual chart. The sequence of these dashas during a 
given year of life depends on the nakshatra of the Moon at birth 
as also the age, in years, of the native at the time of casting the 
annual chart. 

5. Sahams: As already mentioned, the Sahams. are a special 
feature of the annual chart. However, if is recommended that the 
Sahams be calculated for the birth chart as well.’ Only those Sahams 
which are strong in the birth chart can produce their results 
during the year if they are also strong in the annual chart. Those 


4. See Chapter Xi for the calculation of Sahams. 


9 


Sahams which are weak in the birth chart are incapable of 
producing results in the annual chart. 

In summary, it may be stated that the Varshaphala provides 
an interesting and closer view of events pertaining to a given year 
of life of the native, It gives excellent results when integrated 
with a proper study of the birth chart. An understanding of 
certain special features of the Varshaphala (e.g., Yogas, Sahams, 
etc.) is imperative for successful predictions. 


CHAPTER II 
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 


Then, as before, aid the Creator fashion 
the Sun and Moon, the Heaven and the Earth, 
the atmosphere and the domain of light. 


‘RIG VEDA’ 


The Tajika system is only an extension of the Parashari system. 
A knowledge of the basics of the Parashari system thus becomes 
essential in order to understand and apply the Tajika system or 
the annual horoscopy. In the account that follows, some of these 
basics as applicable to the annual chart will be explained. 


The Anatomy of the Chart 


The Varshaphala or the annual horoscopy is a branch of astrology 
which has been mainly in vogue in the northern India. Thus, 
the chart as drawn for an annual horoscope invariably used to 
be the one used in the north India, With progressive exchange 
of late between the north and the south, the Tajika system is 
gradually finding favour with the south Indian practitioners of 
astrology as well. Thus, often the chart has to be drawn in the 
south Indian manner. Either method is as good, depending upon 
the convenience of the practitioner. 


{a) The north Indian chart: Here, the Aouses are fixed. The 
houses are either triangular or rhomboid in shape. The upper 
central rhomboid represents the first house or the lagna or 
the ascendant, and the remaining houses follow regularly in 
order, in an anti-clockwise direction. The sign coinciding with 
the lagna is marked in the house fixed for the lagna, and 
the remaining signs marked in the remaining houses. 


li 


The North Indian Chart The South Indian Chart 


em 
—— 


The South Indian chart: In this type of chart, she signs 
are fixed. They proceed in a clockwise manner from Aries 
to Pisces. Each house is in the form of a square. The lagna 
is marked by two parallel lines across the top left corner in 
the sign where it falls, and the houses are counted from the 
lagna onwards. 


THE HOUSES 


A horoscope has twelve houses. The ascendant or the lagna is 
the first house. The remaining houses fall in regular order from 
it, The various houses have been classed into certain groups, as 
indicated below. 


{a) The Kendras (or Quadrants) : Houses 1, 4, 7 and 10. They 
are the pillars of a horoscope. 


(b) The Panapharas (or Successant houses) : Houses 2, 5, 8 and 
11. 


(c) The Apoklimas (or Cadent houses): Houses 3, 6, 9 and 12. 


(d} The Trikenas (or Trines): Houses 1, 5 and 9. These are 
auspicious houses. House no. 1, ic, the lagna or the 
ascendant, being both a kendra and a trikona, is the most 
important and beneficial house. 


(e) The Upachayas: Houses 3, 6, 10 and 11. They indicate 
struggle, competition and activity. 


12 


(f£) The Trika houses or Duhsthanas : Houses 6, 8 and 12. They 


are adverse houses. Of these, the eighth house is the worst. 


(g) The Maraka houses (or the death-inflicting houses) : 


Houses 2 and 7. Their lords as well as their occupants can 
cause death or suffering. 


SIGNIFICANCE OF HOUSES 


The twelve houses in a chart rule over numerous departments 
of life. These are being briefly stated below. 


L. 


Lagna or the first house: Body, health, appearance, 
complexion, longevity, beginning, queries, head, the present 
(time), details about birth. 


. The second house : Wealth, gains and losses, possessions, 


education, food, right eye, face, oral cavity, speech, family, 
death. 


. The third house : Siblings, courage, valour, shoulders, right 


ear, movement (short journeys), neighbourhood, business 
transactions, communication. 


. The fourth house : Home, fields, parental property, relatives, 


conveyance, mother, cattle, fragrance, comforts, clothes, 
ornaments, chest. 


. The fifth house : Progeny, wisdom, knowledge of the future, 


friends, riches, knowledge of the scriptures, upper abdomen. 


. The sixth house: Enemies, debts, quarrels, injury, thief 


(theft), fear, loss of honour, bad deeds, slavery, quadrupeds 
(pets), maternal uncles and aunts, waist. 


. The seventh house: Desires (pertaining to the matters of 


the heart), marriage, spousc, business partners, travel], path, 
death, lower abdomen and pelvis. 


. The eighth house: Longevity (and death), inheritance, 


wealth of the spouse, obstacles, discontinuity, interruption, 
worries, defeat, crevices, mutual conjugal adjustments, organ 
of excretion. 


13 


9, The ninth house : The guru (or the preceptor}, gods, father, 
virtuous deeds, journey, grandson, hips and thighs. 


10. The tenth house: The ‘Karma’, occupation, means of 
livelihood, status, promotions in job, administration, knees. 


11. The eleventh house : Income, gains, procurements, arrival, 
praise, elder brother or sister, good news,’ left ear, legs. 


12. The twelfth house : Loss, expenditure, consequence, penury, 
pleasures of the bed, renunciation, moksha (or the final 
emancipation), left eye, feet. 


THE PLANETS 


The Vedic astrology makes use of nine grabas which, only for 
the sake of convenience, will henceforth be mentioned as 
planets. In regular order, they are: Ravi, Chandra, Mangala, 
Budha, Brihaspati, Shukra, Shani, Rahu and Ketu Their 
English equivalents, along with their symbols, are being 
tabulated below. 


Table TI-1 
The Planets The English Equivalent Symbols 
1. Ravi (Surya) The Sun ©) 
2. Chandra The Moon > 
3. Mangala Mars d 
4, Budha Mercury <) 
5. Brihaspati Jupiter y 
6. Shukra Venus ©) 
7. Shani Saturn h 
8. Rahu Rahu or Dragon’s head | 
9. Ketu Ketu or Dragon's tail £3 


OF the above planets, the Sun and the Moon are the 
luminaries, while Rahu and Ken are shadowy planets having no 
material existence. It is these nine planets, moving in the twelve 
signs of the zodiac, equivalent to the twelve houses in a 


1, The nature of the good news wiil depend upon a detailed analysis of the chart. 


14 


horoscope, that determine all the events, good or bad, occurring 
in the life of an individual. 


THE ZODIAC 


The zodiac represents the circular path followed by the planets 
round the earth. Its extent is 360 degrees (the circumference of 
a circle). It is divided into twelve equal parts (of 30 degrees each) 
labelled as rashis or signs. Each degree further consists of sixty 
minutes, and each minute of sixty seconds. The position of planets 
in the zodiac is represented in the rashi chart or the basic 
horoscope which consists of twelve houses equivalent to the 
twelve signs of the zodiac. Each house of the horoscope thus 
represents one particular rashi or sign, 


THE RASHIS OR SIGNS 


The twelve rashis, each of 30 degrees extent, are listed below, 
along with their English equivalents and symbols. 


Table TH - 2 
The Rashis The English Extent Symbol 
Equivalent (degrees) 

1. Mesha Aries 0-30 rr 
2. Vrishabha Taurus 30-60 o 
3. Mithuna Gemini 60-90 o 
4. Karka Cancer 90-120 2 
5. Simha Leo 120-150 2 
6. Kanya Virgo 150-180 TR 
7. Tula Libra 180-210 @] 
8. Vrishchika Scorpio 210-240 m1 
9. Dhanu Sagittarius 240-270 ra 
10. Makara Capricorn 270-300 Vv 
11. Kumbha Aquarius 300-330 aR 
12. Meena Pisces 330-3606 x 


SOME CHARACTERISTICS OF RASHIS 


1. Malefic/Male : The odd signs (1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11) are malefic 
in nature, and of male gender. 


15 


Benefic/Female : The even signs (2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12) are 
benefic in nature and of female gender. 


Movable or otherwise : Rashis 1, 4, 7 and 10 are movable 
in nature. They indicate change and mobility. 


Rashis 2, 5, 8 and 11 are fixed. They indicate fixity, stability 
as well as obstinacy. 


Rashis 3, 6, 9 and 12 are mixed or common, and represent 
a balance between mobility and fixity. 


Directions 

East : Rashis 1, 5 and 9 
South : Rashis 2, 6 and 10 
West : Rashis 3, 7 and 11 
North : Rashis 4, 8 and 12 
Inherent nature 

Fiery : Rashis 1, 5 and 9 
Earthy : 2, 6 and 10 

Airy : 3,7 and 11 


Watery =: 4, 8 and 12 


Biological characteristics 


Quadrupeds : 1, 2, 5, posterior half of 9, and 
anterior half of 10 

Bipeds : 3,6, 7, anterior half of 9, and 11 

Insect {or keeta} : 4and 8 


Those inhabiting water 
(or Jalachara) : Posterior half of 10, and 12. 


Parts of the body 
These roughly correspond to those ruled by the different 


houses. 


Aries : Head 
Taurus : Face, throat 
Gemini : Shoulders, upper limbs 


Cancer : Chest, lungs 


16 


Leo : Stomach, upper abdomen 
Virgo : Intestines, waist 
Libra : Lower abdomen 
Scorpio : Private parts of the body 


(external genitalia) 


Sagittarius : Thighs 


Capricorn : Knees 
Aquarius : Legs 
Pisces : Feet 

MORE ABOUT PLANETS 


1, Planetary Lordship 


All planets, excluding Rahu and Ketu, have lordship over the 
rashis. While the Sun and the Moon own a single rashi each, 
the rest of them each own two rashis. The planetary lordship 
over the various rashis is as follows: 

The Sun owns Leo 


The Moon owns Cancer 


Mars owns Aries and Scorpio 
Mercury owns Gemini and Virgo 
Jupiter owns Sagittarius and Pisces 
Venus owns Taurus and Libra 
Saturn owns Capricorn and Aquarius 


Il. Benefics and Malefics 


Planets could be either natural benefits or natural malefics. 

Jupiter, Venus, waxing Moon and a well-associated Mercury 
are natural benefics. 

Waning Moon, ill-associated Mercury, the Sun, Mars, Saturn, 
Rahu and Ketu are natural malefics. 

Planets, however, are subservient to the sign rising in the 
lagna. Thus, different planets behave differently for different 
lagnas. A natural malefic may become benefic for a particular 


17 


lagna, while a natural benefic may acquire harmful] propensities. 
In general, the benefic and malefic nature of planets for a given 
lagna may be decided by taking into consideration the following 
factors : 


1. 
2. 
ca 


Benefics as lords of kendras shed their beneficence. 
Malefics as lords of kendras shed their maleficence. 


The trikona lords are ever benefic, whether or not they are 
natural benefics. 


. Lords of houses 3, 6 and 11 are ever malefic, more intensely 


so if they also own the eighth house. 


. Lords of houses 2, 12 and 8 may be treated as neutral, and 


they give benefic and malefic results depending upon their 
association with benefics or malefics. Lord of the eighth 
house, however, 1s particularly malefic unless it also owns a 
trikona. 


. A planet owning both a kendra and a trikona acquires 


exceedingly beneficial propensities. 


. Association of kendra and trikona lords produces highly 


beneficial results. 


8. Lords of houses 2 and 7 are Marakas or death-inflicting. 


9. Rahu behaves as Saturn and Ketu as Mars. In addition, Rahu 


10. 


11. 


and Ketu give results according to the sign in which they 
are located as also the planets they are associated with, 


Rahu and Kern in trikonas associated with kendra lords, or 
in kendras associated with trikona lords, acquire highly 
benefice properties. 


In the annual chart, the relationship of various planets with 
each other and with the lagna lord must be additionally taken 
into account, not forgetting the special Tajika aspects that 
govern these relations. 


III. Natural Mutual Relationship of Planets 


In addition to the mutual relationship of planets in the annual 
chart, as decided by their friendly, inimical or neutral aspects, the 


18 


natural relationship of planets as employed in the Parashari 
system must also be considered. This may be tabulated as 
follows: 


Table H-3 
Pianets Friends Neutrals Enemies 
Sun Mon, Mar, Jup Mer Ven, Sat 
Moon Sun, Mer Mar Jup - 

Ven, Sat 

Mars Sun, Mon, Jup Ven, Sat Mer 
Mercury Sun, Ven Mar, Jup, Sat Mon 
Jupiter Sun, Mon, Mar Sat Mer, Ven 
Venus Mer, Sat Mar, Jup Sun, Mon 
Saturn Mer, Ven Jup Sun, Mon, Mar 


According to one view, in the Tajika system, there are some 
natural friends and enemies. The planets are divided into two 
groups: (A) Group I consists of the Sun, the Moon, Mars and 
Jupiter, who are mutually friendly, and have common enemies 
in Mercury, Venus and Saturn. (B) Group II consists of 
Mercury, Venus and Saturn which are mutually friendly, and 
jointly inimical towards the Sun, the Moon, Mars and Jupiter. 
tn practice, however, the planetary relationships based only on the 
nature of aspects in the Tajika are employed in analysing an annual 
chart. 


IV. Exaltation and Debilitation of Planets 


Planets are strong when exalted, and devoid of strength when 
debilitated. The point of exaltation for each planet is fixed; six 
signs or 180 degrees away from the exaltation point is the 
debilitation point of the planet. 


V. The Moola Trikena Signs 


Planets are also strong when located in certain specially 
favourable signs called their Moola Trikonas. 

Table II-4 lists the exaltation, the debilitation and the Moola 
Trikonas of the various planets. 


19 


Table II - 4 

Exaltation, Debilitation and Moola Trikona Signs of Planets 

"Planets Exaltation Debilitation Moola Trikona 
{signs - deg.) (signs - deg.) (signs -deg.) 

Sun Aries 10° Libra 10° Leo 0° to 20° 
Moon Taurus 3° Scorpio 3° Taurus 4° to 20° 
Mars Capricorn 28° Cancer 28° — Aries 0° to 12° 
Mercury Virgo 15° Pisces 15° Virgo 16° to 20° 
Jupiter Cancer 5° Capricorn 5° Sagittarius 0° to 10° 
Venus Pisces 27° Virgo 27° Libra 0° to 15° 
Saturn Libra 20° Aries 20° Aquarius 0° to 20° 
VI. Aspects 


All planets aspect the seventh house or the planets located in 
the seventh house from their own position. In addition, there are 
special aspects allotted to Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. Mars aspects 
the fourth and eighth houses from its location, besides its seventh 
aspect. Jupiter’s additional aspects are fifth and ninth. Saturn has 
additional aspects on the third and the tenth houses. These are 
the Parashari aspects and are at variance with the aspects 
generally employed in the Tajika. 


VII. Combustion and Retrogression 


Planets when too near the Sun lose their vitality and are said 
to be combust. Also, during their sojourn around the Sun, 
sometimes the planets appear to be moving in a backward 
direction when seen from the earth; such planets are called as 
retrograde. The Moon and the Sun do not become retrograde, 
while Rahu and Ketu are ever retrograde. Both the combust as 
well as the. retrograde planets are considered weak and harmful 
in the Tajika. 


VIII. Directions 

The eight directions are ruled by the planets as follows: East: 
Sun; South East: Venus; South: Mars; South West: Rahu; 
West: Saturn; North West: Moon; North: Mercury; North 
East : Jupiter. 


20 


IX. Significations of Planets 


Planets, like houses, also rule over various events or aspects of 
life. These are briefly summarised below. 


1, Sun: Father, soul, glory, association with the rulers, energy, 
light, drive, journey in woods and hilly regions, patience, 
victory, courage, gold. 


2. Moon: Mother, mind, mental happiness, white objects, 
fruits, flowers, silver, milk, beauty (of appearance). 


3. Mars: Physical and mental energy, siblings, courage 


(boldness), battles, enemy, enmity, cruelty, weapons, sinful 
acts, injury, scars. 


4, Mercury : Good speech, intelligence, adeptness, cleverness of 
speech, Vidya (higher or scriptural education), truthfulness. 


5. Jupiter : Jnana (knowledge of the Real), good qualities, son, 
guru, knowledge of the scriptures, austerities, devotion, 
wisdom, esteem, control over senses, treasure. 


6. Venus : Pleasures of the senses and of the bed, good clothes, 
omaments, conveyance, fragrance, perfumes, flowers, riches, 
comforts, marriage, auspicious events. 


7. Saturn: Longevity, death, fear, fall (from height or status), 
dishonour, ailment, misery, penury, defamation, sin, servility, 
slavery, stability, association with ‘low’ people, laziness, debts, 
imprisonment, agriculture. 


8. Rahu: Paternal relations (grandfather, etc.), chronic and 
incurable disease, serpent bites, epidemics, mathematics. 


9. Ketu: Maternal grandfather, undiagnosed disease, parasitic 
infestation, intrigues, occultism, spirituality, emancipation. 


THE NAKSHATRAS 


The zodiac is divided into twenty-seven nakshatras or 
constellations, each having an extent of 13 degrees and 20 
minutes. Each nakshatra may be further divided into four equal 
parts of 3 degrees 20 minutes each, and called the padas or 
charanas or quarters. Thus there are 108 nakshatra charanas or 


21 


quarters. Since there are twelve rashis in the zodiac as equivalent 
to twenty seven nakshatras, each rashi consists of two-and- 
a-quarter nakshatras or nine nakshatra charanas. The twenty- 
seven nakshatras, in three groups of nine each, are ruled by nine 
planets, The order of rulers over the first nine nakshatras is Ketu 
Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury. 
This order repeats in the next group of nine nakshatras, and again 
in the last group of nine nakshatras. 

The relation between the rashis, the nakshatras, and the 
nakshatra lords may be better understood from Table II-5. 


THE VARGAS 


Fach sign or rashi is further subdivided into its vargas or specified 
divisions. These vargas are employed to make the varga charts 
or the divisional charts. A rashi chart in general only provides 
a broad overview of events. In order that more detailed and 
accurate analysis is performed, it is important to prepare the 
various divisional charts. Generally, astrologers make Shadvargas 
(six-fold divisions) or Saptavargas {seven-fold divisions) for 
routine analysis. These vargas are very briefly described below. 
They would again be referred to later. 


1. The Rashi chart: This is the basic chart as cast generally. 


2. Hora: Each sign is divided into two parts of 15 degrees each. 
The first part in an odd sign and the second part in an even 
sign belongs to the Hora of the Sun {or Leo). The second 
part of an odd sign and the first part of an even sign belongs 
to the Hora of the Moon (or Cancer}. 


3. Drekkana: Each sign is divided into three parts of 10 
degrees each. The first part belongs to the sign itself; the 
second part to the sign fifth from it, the third to the sign 
ninth from it. 


4. Navamsha: This is the most important of the vargas. Each 
sign is divided into nine equal parts of 3°20'. In movable 
signs, the first Navamsha belongs to the same sign, and the 
remaining Navamshas follow in order. In the fixed signs, the 
first Navamsha fails in the ninth house from itself. In the 
mixed signs, the first Navamsha falls in the fifth from itself. 


Table II - 5 
Rashis, Nakshatras and Nakshatra lords 
Rashis Nakshatras Extent Pada Lord 
$ dom 
1. Aries l. Ashwini 0 13 20 4 Kew 
2. Bharani 0 26 40 4 Venus 
3. Krittika 1 0 0 1 Sun 
2. Taurus 3, Krittika 1 10 0 3 Sun 
4. Rohini 1 23 20 $4 #4x,.Moon 
5. Mrigasira 2 0 0 2 Mars 
3. Gemini 5. Mrigasira 2 6 40 2. Mars 
6. Ardra 2 20 0 4 Rahu 
7. Punarvasu 3 0 QO 3 Jupiter 
4. Cancer 7. Punarvasu 3 3 20 1 Jupiter 
8. Pushya 3.916 40 4 Sarum 
9. Ashlesha 4 0 0 4 Mercury 
5. Leo 10. Magha 4 13 20 4 = Ket 
11. Poorva Phalguni 4 26 40 4 Venus 
: 12. Uttara Phalguni 5 O O 1 Sun 
6. Virgo 12. Uttara Phalguni 5 10 O 3 Sun 
13. Hasta 5 23 20 4 Moon 
14. Chitra 6 0 0 2 = Mars 
7. Libra 14. Chitra 6 6 40 2 = Mars 
15. Swati 6 20 O 4 ~~ Rahu 
16. Vishakha 7 OF O 3 - Jupiter 
8. Scorpio 16. Vishakha 7 3 20 1 Jupiter 
17. Anuradha 7 16 40 4 Satum 
18. Jyestha 8 0 0 4 Mercury 
9. Sagitt. 19. Mooia 8 13 20 4 Ker 
20. Poorva Asadha 8 26 409 4 Venus 
21. Uttara Asadha 9 ft) 0 1 Sun 
10. Capri, 21. Uttara Asadho 9 10 Q 3 Sun 
22. Shravana 9 23 20 4 #&2x,°;Moon 
23, Dhanishtha 10 0 0 2 Mars 
11. Aquarius 23. Dhanishtha 10 6 40 2 = Mars 
24. Satha Bhishay 10 20 O 4 # Rahu 
25. P. Bhadrapada 11 0 OO 3 — Jupiter 
12. Pisces 25. P. Bhadrapada 11 3 20 1 Jupiter 
26: U. Bhadrapada 11 16 40 4 Satum 
27. Revati 12 0 Q 4 Mercury 


23 


5. Dwadashamsha : Each sign is divided into twelve equal parts 
of 2°30". The first Dwadashamsha belongs to the same sign, 


the next one to the subsequent sign, and so on. 


6. Trimshamsha : In odd signs, the first five degrees belong 
to Mars, the next 5° to Saturn, the next 8° to Jupiter, the 
next 7° to Mercury, and the last 5° to Venus. In the even 
signs, the order is reversed, 1.e., Venus 5°, Mercury 7°, Jupiter 
8°, Saturn 5°, and finally Mars 5°, in this order from the first 
to the fifth division. 


7. Saptamsha: The above mentioned six divisions constitute 
the Shadvargas. When the Saptamsha too is included, it 
makes the Saptavargas. Each sign is divided into seven equal 
parts (of 4°17'8.5"). In odd signs, the first Saptamsha belongs 
to the same sign; the remaining ones follow in regular order. 
In the even signs, the first Saptamsha belongs to ms sign 
in the seventh from itself. 


The vargas have been more thoroughly dealt with subsequently, 
while dealing with planetary strength. 


CHAPTER II] 


CASTING THE 
ANNUAL CHART 


From Ocean with its waves was born the year 
which marshals the succession of nights and days, 
controlling everything that blinks the eye. 


‘RIG VEDA’ 


The longitude of the Sun at birth forms the basis of the annual 
chart. The annual chart for any given year of a native’s life is 
the horoscope cast for the moment when the Sun attains, during 
that year, the same longitude as it had at the time of birth. All 
calculations of cusps and longitudes are done on the sidereal or 
Nirayana basis. The use of the Chitrapaksha ayanamsha (as 
employed in the Lahiris Indian Ephemeris) has given us sound 
results. 


The Solar Cycle 


A solar year has a duration of three hundred and sixty five days, 
six hours, nine minutes and about ten seconds, In other words, 
the Sun takes this length of time to complete one round of the 
twelve signs of the zodiac. After this duration of time, the Sun 
will return to its original position; another sojourn for the same 
duration, and the Sun attains the same position again. This would 
go on repeating every year. Thus, if we add 365 days 6 hours 
9 minutes and 10 seconds to the weekday and time of birth, we 
get the weekday and time next year when the Sun would regain 
the same longitude as it had at the beginning. The time when 
the Sun after one sojourn returns to its original postition is called the 
solar return or the Varsha-pravesha. 

If we ignore the completed weeks out of the above mentioned 
period of time (i.e., 365 d. 6 h. 9 m. 10 s.), we get a remainder 


25 


of 1 d.6h,9 m. and 10s, This is a constant for one year. Double 
this figure would give us the constant for two years, and so on. 
This constant figure for any year or years is called Daruvanka 
(literally, a ‘fixed value’ or a ‘numerical constant’). Thus, adding 
the Dhruvanka for any number of completed years to the weekday 
and time of birth would give us the weckday and time of 
Varshapravesha for the year to commence. The weekday thus 
obtained may be the same as that falling on the native’s actual 
birthday as given by the calender during that year, or it may fall 
a day before or a day after the actual birthday. 

A horoscope cast for this particular weekday, falling on or 
around one’s natural birthday, and for the time obtained as above, 
is called as the annual chart or the Varsha Kundali (Varsha : year; 
Kundali : chart). 


Steps involved in preparing an annual chart 


The first requirement of an annual chart is the construction of 
the birth chart along with its dashas and antardashas. Next comes 
the determination of Varshapravesha. Finally, a chart is 
constructed for the Varshapravesha so obtained. The following 
steps must be gone through. 


1. Note the weekday of the birth of the native along with his 
date, time and place of birth. 


2. Calculate the ascendant, the tenth house, the longitudes of 
planets, and the Vimshottari Dasha/Antardasha, etc., as 
relevant to the birth horoscope. 


3. Decide on the particular calender year for which the annual 
chart is to be prepared. 


4. For the calender year in question, find the native's completed 
years of life by subtracting the year of birth from the current 
year. 

5. Find out the Dhruvanka or the constant for the number of 
completed years (see Table II-1). 

6. Add to the weekday (use 0 for Sunday, 1 for Monday, 2 for 
Tuesday, and so on) and the time of birth, the Dhruvanka 


for the completed years. The total will give the weekday and 
the time of Varshapravesha. 


26 


Completed 
years 


oon At Bw Nh Re 


KB BO oN oh oh oh ow oho BM BR OR RB Be ee Be ee eS oe 
o ew MBs Rtn bw hw YP Ow BWA a wt WN YE @ 


NRF OM & WMH OW WU ANY OH fF ON FF HA HH SP Hr ODMH Hw NHN |e 


Table II - 1 
Dhruvankas for completed years 
Dhnuvanka Completed 

h m 5 years 
6 9 10 31 
12 #18 19 32 
18 27 29 33 
0 36 39 34 
6 45 49 35 
12 54 58 36 
9 4 8 37 
1 13 #18 38 
7 22 27 39 
13. 31 37 40 
19 40 47 41 
1 49 57 42 
7 59 6 43 
14 8 16 44 
20 #17 26 45 
2 26 36 46 
$ 35 45 47 
14 44 #55 48 
20 54 5 49 
3 3 14 50 
9 12 24 55 
15 21 34 60 
21 30 44 65 
3 39 «#53 70 
9 49 3 75 
5 $8 13 80 
22 7 22 85 
4 16 32 90 
10 25 42 95 
16 34) 52 100 


d 
3 
5 
6 
0 
1 
3 
4 
5 
6 
1 
2 
3 
5 
6 
4) 
1 
3 
4 
5 
6 
6 
5 
4 
3 
3 
2 
1 
1 
0 
6 


Dhruvanka 
h m 
22 44 
4 53 
11 2 
17 11 
23-20 
5 29 
li 38 
17. 48 
23. «57 
6 6 
12 «15 
18 24 
0 33 
6 43 
12 52 
19 1 
1 10 
7 #19 
13. 28 
19 38 
2 23 
9 9 
5 55 
22 «41 
5 627 
12 12 
18 58 
1 44 
30 
15 16 


27 


7. Calculate the ascendant and the tenth house for this day and 
time. Also calculate the longitudes of planets as well as the 
mid-points of the houses for this moment. This gives us the 
Varsha chart proper. 


Note: The longitude of the Sun as obtained for the moment 
of Varshapravesha may not be exactly the same as that at the 
time of birth. The two may differ by a few minutes. This 
difference, which is duc to the disturbance of the Sun's longitude 
by the planets, may be safely ignored in the Varshaphala 
calculations. 

Example: Native born on August 20, 1944 (Sunday), at 
7:11 A.M. (IST), at Bombay (Lat. 18°58'N; Long. 72°50'E). 
Calculate the annual chart for the year commencing August 1984. 
(This data refers to the late Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, the Prime Minister 
of India between 1984 and 19989.) 


The birth chart calculated for this native is as follows: 


Ascendant Leo 14°36' 
Sun Leo 3°49' 
Moon Leo 17°08" 
Mars Virgo 1°11’ 
Mercury Leo 28°33" 
Jupiter Lea 12°10" 
Venus Leo 18°39' 
Satum Gemini 14°12' 
Rahu Cancer 4°09" 
Ketu Capricorn 4°09' 
Tenth house ‘Taurus 14°56' 


Balance of Vimshottari dasha of Venus at birth: 14 yrs. 
3 m. 18 d. The MD/AD of Rahu-Jupiter: August 20, 1984 to 
January 14, 1987. 
The Annual Chart 
(a} Completed years: 1984 - 1944 = 40. 


The annual chart is thus for the forty-first year of life of the 
native, commencing from August 1984. 


1. Source Pupul Jayakar’s biography of Mrs Indira Gandhi which gives the birth 
time as 8:11 AM (Wartime), equivalent to 7:11 AM (IST). 


Chart IIJ-1 
Birth Chart 


August 20, 1944 


(b) Day and time of birth: 
Od (ie., Sunday) 7h 11m Os (IST). 


(c) Dhruvanka for forty years : 1d 6h 6m 29s 
{d) Varshapravesha : 


Birth day and time : Od 7h 11m Os (IST) 
plus 
Dhruvanka for 40 years : 1d 6h 6m 29s 


id 13h 17m 29s 


Thus the Varshapravesha for the forty-first year occurs on 
Monday at 13h 17m 29s (IST). 


In the year 1984, Monday nearest to the English date of the 
native’s birth falls on the same date, i.e., on August 20. Thus, 
the time of solar return or the Varshapravesha for the native's 
forty-first year of life is August 20, 1984 (Monday), at 13 
hours, 17 minutes, 29 seconds (IST) for Bombay. 


(e) Ascendant and other houses: From the Indian Standard Time 
of the Varshapravesha, find out the local mean time (LMT) 
for Bombay. Next calculate the ascendant and the tenth house 
for this LMT. 


Cattulating the remaining houses: Adding six signs to the 
ascendant gives the mid-point of the seventh house. Similarly, 
adding six signs to the tenth house provides the mid-point 
of the fourth house. Houses 11 and 12 are equidistantly 
placed between houses 10 and 1 (i.e., lagna). If we divide 


(f 


ed 


29 


the distance between the tenth house.and the lagna into three 
equal parts and add one part to the mid-point of the tenth 
house, we get the mid-point of the. 11th house. Adding the 
same one-third to the mid-point of the 11th house provides 
the mid-point of the 12th house. Similarly find out the mid- 
points of houses 2 and 3 between the lagna and the fourth 
house. Adding six signs to each of the houses 2, 3, 1], and 
12, we get the mid-points of the houses 8, 9, 5 and 6 
respectively. The mid-points of the various houses for the 
annual chart under consideration are being given below. 


Ascendant Scorpio 9° 26' 
2H Sagittarius 10” 41' 
3H Capricorn 11° 53' 
4H Aquarius 13° 10' 
5H Pisces 11° 55' 
6H Aries 10° 41' 
7H Taurus 9° 26' 
8H Gemini 10° 41' 
9H Cancer 11° 55' 
10H Leo 13° 10 
11H Virgo 155 
12H Libra 10° 41' 


(g) The position of planets: Several Indian ephemerides give. the 
position of planets according to the Indian Standard Time. 
From any of these, which use the Chitrapaksha ayanamsha 
(e.g., the Lahiri’s), calculate the position of planets for the 
IST of the Varshapravesha. For the annual chart in question, 
the position of planets is given as under: 


Sun Leo 3° 50° 
Moon Taurus 9° 40' 
Mars Scorpio 7 42' 
Mercury (R) Leo 18° 20 
Jupiter (R) Sagittarius 9° 38° 
Venus Leo 21° 45' 
Saturn Libra 17° 13° 
Rahu Taurus 8° 55' 


Ketu Scorpio 8° 55’ 


This chart will be referred to repeatedly in our subsequent 
discussions as the ‘Example Chart’. 


The Older Method for the Varshapravesha 


It may be of relevance to mention here that the duration of the 
solar cycle as taken into account above is according to the modern 
astronomical concepts. The older Vedic method has been taking 
into consideration the value of the solar cycle as given in the 
Surya Siddbanta. This value differs from the modern scientific 
observations slightly. 

According to the ancient method of computing time, a day 
is divided into sixty Ghatis.” Each Ghati consists of sixty Palas 
(or Vighatis) and each Pala of sixty Pipalas. Thus, one hour of 
our modern time is equivalent to two-and-a-half Ghatis. In other 
words, twenty-four minutes make a Ghati, twenty-four seconds 
make a Pala, and 0.4 seconds make a Vipala. The Surya Siddbanta 
lays down a span of three hundred and sixty-five days, fifteen 
Ghatis, thirty-one Palas and thirty Vipalas as the duration of one 
solar cycle. This will be equivalent to 365 days, 6 hours, 12 
minutes and 36 seconds, giving us a constant or Dhruvanka of 
1 d.6h. 12 m. and 36 s. for one year. A simple multiplication 
of this value would give us the Dhruvanka of any number of years 
required (see Table IIT - 2). 


2. A Ghati is labelled as ‘Dandad in Bengal and Orissa. 


31 


Table III - 2 
Dhruvankas according to the ancient method 
Completed Years Dhruvanka 

d h m s 

1 i 6 12 36 
2 2 12 25 12 
3 3 18 37 48 
4 5 0 50 24 
5 6 7 3 0 
10 5 14 6 0 
15 4 21 9 0 
20 4 4 12 0 
30 2 18 18 0 
40 1 8 24 0 
50 6 22 30 0 


In the charts and examples to be discussed, only the modern values 
of Dhruvanka will be employed 


Casting the Annual Chart for the Subsequent Year 


When the Varshapravesha for a particular year is known, the 
Varshapravesha for the subsequent year can be known by adding 
the Dhruvanka for one year to the known Varshapravesha. 


1. In the Example Chart, the Varshapravesha for the 41st year 
is id. 13h. 17m. 29s. 


2. Add ‘to it the Dhruvanka for one year, 1e., 1d. 6h. 
9m. 10s. 


3. We get 2 d. (ie., Tuesday) 19h. 26m. 39s., which falls on 
August 20, 1985, 


4. Acchart cast for the above Varshapravesha will be the annual 
chart for the forty-second year of the native. 


CHAPTER IV 
THE MUNTHA 


Yet certain ones, though seeing, may not see her, 
and other ones, though hearing, may not dear her. 
But to some the Word reveals herself quite freely, 
hike fair-robed bride surrendering to her husband. 


‘RIG VEDA’ 


The Muntha is an important point in the annual chart. It is 
located in the lagna at the time of birth. Each year, the Muntha 
progresses by one rashi. Thus, when the second year of life begins 
(i.e., at the first birthday), the Muntha has progressed into the 
rashi falling in the second house from the birth lagna. At the 
commencement of the third year of birth, the Muntha is in che 
sign falling in the third house from the birth lagna, and so on. 
In the annual chart, the Muntha is located in the house where 
its rashi falls, after calculating this rashi considering the birth 
ascendant and the year of life in question. 

Because of its progression by one’ sign each year, the Muntha 
has been termed as the progressed ascendant. The lord of the 
Muntha is also of significance as it is one of the five office-bearers 
in the annual chart. One of the office-bearers finally takes over 
as the lord of the year. 


Calculating the Muntha 


Add to the lagna sign in the birth chart the number of completed 
years of life. Divide the total by 12.'The remainder gives the rashi 
or sign where the Muntha is located in the annual chart. When 
the remainder is zero, the Muntha would naturally be located 
in the sign Pisces, the twelfth rashi. 


33 


In the Example Chart (discussed in the previous chapter), the 
birth ascendant is Leo, signified by the number 5. Since the 
annual chart is for the forty-first year of the native's life, we have 
the number of completed years as forty. Adding five (the birth 
ascendant) to forty (the no. of completed years), we get a total 
of forty-five. Dividing forty-five by rwelve (the total no. of rashis), 
we get 2 remainder of nine. The number nine stands for the ninth 
sign of the zodiac, i.e., Sagittarius. Thus the Muntha is marked 
in the sign Sagittarius in the annual chart, which here coincides 
with the second house of the annual chart. 


Progression of the Muntha during the Year 


Since the Muntha progresses by one sign or 30 degrees in a year, 
it progresses by 2°30' each month (30°+12 = 2°30'). The daily 
motion of the Muntha may also be calculated by dividing 2°30' 
by 30 (the number of days in a month), giving a value of 5 
minutes. These values are of importance if one intends to go into 
very close timing of events during a given year. 


Results pertaining to the Muntha 


The Muntha gives results according to its location in different 
houses, its association with different planets, and the disposition 
of the lord of the sign in which the Muntha is located. The results 
pertaining to the Muntha, as discussed hereunder, are mainly 
based on the Tiyika Neelakanthi, the famous treatise of Sri 
Neelakantha, the celebrated authority on the Tajika Shastra. 


THE MUNTHA IN DIFFERENT HOUSES 


The location of the Muntha in houses 4, 6, 7 8 and 12 in the 
annual chart is considered inauspicious. It is particularly 
auspicious when placed in the houses 9, 10 and 11. In the 
remaining houses (houses 1, 2, 3, 5} it yields good results through 
the native’s personal efforts. 

The results ascribed to the Muntha on the basis of its location 
in different houses are briefly given below. 


Ascendant or the first house ; Dominance over opponents, 
dignity, favours from the government, good health, and 
acquisition of wealth and status through efforts, It may also 


34 


indicate change of residence, displacement, transfer, and the birth 
of a child. 


Second house : Efforts succeeding into acquisition of wealth, 
gains from business and trade, respect from one's associates, 
favours from the opposite sex, dainty dishes, and governmental 
favours ensuring livelihood (see Example Chart). 


Third house: Courageous efforts yielding wealth, general 
comforts, favours from siblings, acquisition of name and fame, 
success in endeavours, inclination to do good to others, 
availability of sustenance from the ruler (a government service!). 


Fourth house : Physical ailment, mental anguish, fear from 
foes, opposition from the near and dear ones, loss of wealth, 
disgrace, displeasure of the nuler. 


Fifth house : Inclination towards good and pious deeds, birth 
of a child or happiness through the offspring, physical pleasures 
and comforts, rise in status. 


Sixth house : Fear from foes, thieves and rulers, diminished 
body resistance causing proneness to illness, failure in 
undertakings, loss of wealth, perverted thinking, remorse, 
increase in the number of enemies, adverse results from 
well-intended deeds. 


Seventh house ; Physical ailment, perverted thinking, loss of 
wealth, disappointment arising from the spouse, the business 
partners and the enemies, inclination towards bad deeds, 
disappointment, likelihood of imprisonment. 


Eighth house: The Muntha here produces extremely bad 
results in the form of incurable illness, loss of wealth, quarrels, 
loss of physical strength and stamina, inclination towards mean 
deeds, dominance by enemies, displeasure of the ruler, losses in 
litigation, distant travel, change in the place of residence, and 
varied worldly discomforts and set-backs. 


Ninth house : Fulfilment of desires, inclination towards pious 
deeds, religious ceremony at home, favours from the ruler, 
happiness from the spouse and the offspring, increase in status 
and fortune, beneficial and fruitful journey, 


35 


Tenth house: Rise in status, promotion in job, increase in 
income and wealth, favours from the ruler, accomplishment of 
good deeds, gain in honour and dignity. 


Eleventh house: Gains from all sides, happiness from 
children (birth of a child !), solution of outstanding problems, 
favours from superiors and rulers, gain in physical and mental 
health, fulfilment of desires: 


Twelfth house: Loss of wealth, excessive expenditure, 
obstacles to profession, displacement/transfer, physical ailments, 
mental anguish, association with wicked people, irreligious 
inclinations, enmity with friends, and failure in undertakings. 


Note: 

1. The Muntha associated with or aspected by benefics and by 
its own lord produces benefic results pertaining to its location. 
An ill-associated/ill-aspected Muntha only produces bad 
results even if it is located in benefic houses. 


2. The Muntha is not only productive of adverse results when 
placed in the houses 4, 6, 7, 8 and 12 from the lagna in the 
annual chart, it also yields bad results when placed in these 
houses as considered from the lagna in the birth chart. 


3. When the Muntha is associated with or aspected by benefics 
or its own lord, the house where it is located prospers. Where 
this Muntha falls in the birth chart, that house also prospers 
during the year. 


INFLUENCES ON THE MUNTHA 


Besides its location in various houses, the Muntha is also under 
the influence of various planets which aspect or associate with 
it, and of various rashis in which it is placed. Thus, for example, 
the Muntha may be aspected by the Sun or be associated with 
it or be in the rashi owned by the Sun (i.¢., Leo). In each case, 
the influence of the Sun on the Muntha will manifest. Other 
planets too will affect it accordingly. The results of various planets 


1. An important principle here is the influence of a planet through the sign owned 
by it. This principle holds true not only in the annual chart but also in the 
natal chart. 


36 


influencing the Muntha in any of the ways mentioned above are 
being described below. 


Sun: The Muntha under the influence of the Sun ensures 
favours from the ruler, elevation of status (promotions in 
service), monetary gains, dominance over opponents, gainful 
journey. Ill effects accrue when the Muntha is ill-placed and 
ill-aspected. 


Moon: Gain of health, wealth, name and fame, association 
with virtuous people, peace of mind, fulfilment of desires. When 
this Muntha is ill-aspected and ill-placed, there is mental agony, 


Mars: Bilious disorders, accident, injury, surgical operation, 
blood disorders, quarrels, mental agony, and excessive expenditure. 


If this Muntha is placed in favourable houses, under the 
influence of benefics like Jupiter and Venus, it ensures gain in 
wealth and success through personal effort and courage. 


Mercury : Increased intellect, success in education, favours 
from women (marriage,), satisfaction in respect of children, gain 
in virtue, name and fame. Affliction to the Muntha produces 
adverse results. 


Jupiter : Child birth, peace at home, sudden gain in wealth, 
rise in status, desired employment, gain of precious metals and 
stones. Affliction to such a Muntha adversely affects the name 
and fame of the native. 


Venus : The good results obtained from the Muntha in the 
rashi of Venus or under aspect/association of Venus are similar 
to those that accrue from the influence of Mercury on the 
Muntha. In addition, there may be marriage, pleasures and 
comforts of all sorts, and gain in wealth. An afflicted Muntha 
gives rise to scandals and loss of honour. 


Saturn: Physical ailments, disappointments, inclination 
towards unbecoming deeds, loss of honour and wealth. These ill 
effects are nullified if Jupiter also exerts its influence on the 
Muntha. Influence of Mars on this Muntha may lead to 
proneness to accidents, surgical operations, blood disorders, fear 
from fire and foes, and loss of money. 


Rahu and Ketu’ : The Muntha gives favourable results during 
the first half of the year, and unfavourable ones during the second 
half, if associated with Rahu. The reverse holds true when it is 
associated with Ketu. 


THE MUNTHA LORD 


The lord of the sign in which the Muntha is located is called 
the Muntha lord. In the annual chart, the Muntha lord yields 
desirable or adverse results according to its location, strength, and 
other planetary influences on it. The results accruing from the 
Muntha lord depending on its location are briefly described 
below. 


First house: The Muntha lord in the lagna, especially 
when strong and aspecting the Muntha, ensures flow of money, 
good health, fulfilment of desires, elevated status, and general 
comforts. 


Second house: Monetary gains, comforts of home and 
vehicles, satisfaction in respect of near and dear ones, and 
fulfilment of desires. 


Third house : Comforts from brothers and sisters, increase 
in valour, accomplishments through success of efforts. 


Fourth house : Loss of money, anxiety, disgrace, displeasure 
of superiors, ill health, and loss of comforts at home. 


Fifth house : Success over opponents, fulfilment of desires, 
comforts from wife and children, gain of status and dignity. 


Sixth house : Fear from opponents, excessive expenditure, loss 
from theft, association with the wicked, and ill health. 


Seventh house : Iii health to the native and to the spouse, 
excessive travel, losses in travel, displeasure of the near and dear 
ones. 


Eighth house : II] health, displeasure of superiors, obstacles 
to profession, loss of money, disappointments, and generally 
adverse results throughout the year. 


2. The results pertaining to Rahu and Ketu, as mentioned here, need further 
testing. 


38 


Ninth house : Noble thoughts, religious deeds, good health, 
inflow of money, and fulfilment of desires. 


Tenth house : Promotion in job, elevated status, acquisition 
of vehicle or land, success over opponents, and fulfilment of 
desires. 


Eleventh house : Inflow of money, promotion or elevation of 
status, co-operation and help from siblings, general comforts, and 
association with important people. 


Twelfth house: Loss of health and wealth, excessive travel 
(foreign travel), disappointment from children, and loss of status. 


Tt will be seen that, like the Muntha itself, the Muntha lord 
also gives adverse results in the houses 4, 6, 7, 8 and 12. In the 
rest, it is favourable. It will also be seen that in the same chart, 
the Muntha and its lord may indicate contradictory results. In 
such a situation, a balance in interpretation is called for. It is 
further necessary to consider several other factors in the chart 
as have been discussed elsewhere. The Muntha, as already stated, 
represents the birth lagna in progression. Considering the 
Muntha in the analysis of the annual chart is extremely important 
though it may not be taken as the final word. 


CHAPTER V 
THE DASHA SYSTEM 


Toward wham does the rising Flame aspire? 
Toward whom does the Wind eagerly blow? 
On whom do all the compass points converge? 
Tell me of that Support — who may be be? 


ATHARVA VEDA’ 


The most outstanding feature of the Vedic system of astrology 
is its application in the timing of events. One of the methods 
employed for such a timing ts the consideration of Gorhara or 
the transit of planets. Bur -by far the most dependable and 
accurate method involves the use of dashas or operational 
periods. Primarily belonging to the Jataka or natal horoscopy, 
these dasha systems have been extended to the annual chart also. 
The planets are allotted certain periods of time over which they 
exert their influence on the native. The various events unfold 
in the life of an individual in accordance with the changing 
dashas. 

Several dashas have been described as of relevance to the 
annual chart. Of these, three are more popular. They are: 


(a) The Mudda Dasha (or the Vimshottari-Mudda Dasha) 
(b) The Yogini Dasha 
{c) The Patyayini Dasha 


The Mudda dasha and the Yogint dasha are nakshatra-based 
dashas, and depend on the birth nakshatra. They are the 
equivalents of similar dashas {the Vimshottari and the Yogini) 
in the birth horoscope, with the difference that their petiod of 


40 


operation is reduced to one year. The Mudda dasha is the most 
popular of the three dashas mentioned above. 


THE MUDDA DASHA 


For a given year of life, the order of dasha is calculated thus: 

Add to the completed years of life, the Moon's nakshatra at 
birth; subtract two; divide the value thus obtained by nine. Ignore 
the quotient. The remainder gives the Mudda dasha operating 
at the time of commencement of the year. 

The first dasha will be that of the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Rahu, 
Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu, or Venus, as the remainder after 
the above operation is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or zero. This order 
is the same as that of the Vimshottari dasha in the natal chart. 
After deciding the first dasha operating at the time of the 
Varshapravesha, the subsequent dashas follow the regular order. 


Example Chart 
(Completed years plus the Moon's nakshatra at birth minus two) 
divided by nine 
i 40 + 11 (Poorva Phalguni) - 2 
9 
or 49 + 9, We get Q:5;R: 4. 


Ignonng the quotient, we get the remainder of 4, which means 
that the dasha operating at the time of commencement of the 
year was that of Rahu. The subsequent dashas will follow the 
order Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu, Venus, Sun, Moon and 
Mars. 


The duration in the Mudda dasha 


The duration of each dasha in days is obtained by multiplying 
its duration in years as allotted in the Vimshottari dasha by three. 
Thus, in the annual chart, the duration of various periods under 
the Mudda dasha will be as given in Table V-1. 


Working out the balance of dasha 


After finding the dasha operating at the time of Varshapravesha, 
it is required to find out the balance of this dasha. For this 


Al 


Table V-1 

Dasha Duration 

Sun 18 days (6x3) 
Moon 30 days (10x3) 
Mars 21 days (7x3) 
Rahu 54 days (18x3) 
Jupiter 48 days (16x3) 
Saturn 57 days (193) 
Mercury 51 days (17x3) 
Ketu 21 days (7x3) 
Venus 60 days (20x3} 
Total 360 days (120x3) 


purpose, it is: necessary to find out the exact longitude of the 
Moon at the time of birth. This will give us the nakshatra at 
the time of birth as well as the extent of this nakshatra traversed 
by the Moon. The extent of the nakshatra yet to be traversed 
will give us the balance of the dasha at the time of 
Varshapravesha. 


Example Chart 


The longitude of the Moon at birth is 4°17°8'. The nakshatra 
Magha ends at 4°13°20". Of the 13°20’ of the next nakshatra, 1.¢., 
Poorva Phalguni, the Moon has already traversed 3°48'. The 
remaining portion of the nakshatra is 9°32". 

We have already seen that it was the Rahu dasha operating 
at the commencement of the forty-first year of the native. The 
total duration of Rahu dasha as already indicated is 54 days. 

If 13°20’ (the extent of a nakshatra) indicates a Rahu dasha 
of 54 days, then 9°32' (ie., the part of the nakshatra yet to be 
traversed by the natal Moon) would indicate a balance of Rahu 
equal to 38.61 days f{ie., ($4 x 9°32') + 13°20'] or 1 month and 
8.61 days. After these many days of Rahu, the next dasha of 
Jupiter will start. Subtracting these 38.61 days from the total 
duration of Rahu of 54 days, we get 13.39 days which will be 
Rahu’s dasha toward the end of the year. 

The dasha periods for the native of the Example Chart for 
his forty-first year starting wef August 20, 1984 may be 
tabulated as below. 


a 
NJ 


Table V-2 
The Mudda dasha 
Dasha Duration Ends on 

m d d m y 
1. Rahu 1 8.61 29 9 1984 
2. Jupiter 1 18 17 11 84 
3. Saturn 1 27 14 1 85 
4. Mercury 1 21 5 3 85 
5. Ketu 0 21 26 3 85 
6. Venus 2 0 26 5 85 
7. Sun 0 18 14 6 85 
8. Moon 1 0 14 7 85 
9, Mars 0 21 5 8 BS 
10. Rahu 0 15.39 20 8 1985 

The View of Kalidasa 


The celebrated author of the Ustara Kalamrita advocates that, 
in the calculation of the Mudda dasha, the position of the Moon 
in the annual chart, and not in the birth chart, is to be considered. 
According to this view, the balance of dasha at the time of the 
Varshapravesha is calculated from the nakshatra of the Moon in 
the annual chart. The first dasha during the year will be that 
of the Moon’s nakshatra lord. The order of dashas and their 
duration according to this system are mentioned below. 


The Planet Duration (days) 
Sun 116 
Moon 60 
Mars 32 
Mercury 40 
Jupiter 48 
Venus 56 
Sarurn 4 
Rahu 5 
Lagna 10 
Total 365 


This method of the Mudda dasha calculation is not in popular 
use. Ir may be noted here that this dasha takes into account 365 
days instead of the 360 usually considered in the nakshatra dashas 


43 


of annual chart. When 360 days are taken to represent one year, 
they represent 360 ‘solar days’, each of which would indicate the 
movement of the Sun by one degree. The duration of such a ‘solar 
day’ would be different from our usual day of twenty-four hours. 
One could accurately spread the 360 days of the Tajika dashas 
over the 365 days of the year by proportionately increasing the 
dasha periods. Generally, however, it is more convenient to round 
off the dasha periods to enable them to spread over the 365 days ° 
of the year, with a negligible, and acceptable, error. 


Note: Ketu’s period has not been mentioned here though the 
Moon could well be in Ketu's nakshatra. Should Ketu 
be taken to be equivalent to Rahu, or to Mars? This 
needs to be tested! 


Sub-periods in the Mudda Dasha 


For a closer timing, after deciding the major periods, one should 
go into the calculation of the sub-periods. In a given major period, 
or Mahadasha (MD), the first sub-period, or Antardasha (AD), 
belongs to the same planet. The remaining sub-periods follow 
in the order of the Vimshottari dasha. The duration of the sub- 
periods in each major period is proportionate to each planet's 
major period. See Table V-3 for the duration of sub-periods in 
the major periods of various planets. 


THE YOGINI DASHA 


To the sum of the birth nakshatra and the completed years of 
life, add three. Divide the total by eight. The remainder gives 
the Yogini dasha at the commencement of the year as follows: 


Remainder Yogini Dasha 


Mangala 
Pingala 
Dhanya 
Bhramari 
Bhadrika 
Ulka 
Siddha 
Sankata 


oo so ta bh ww Ne 


44 


Table V-3 
Sub-periods in Vimshottari Mudda Dasha 


J | Mahadasha 


Sun -18 d Moon - 30 d 
Days Hours | Days Hours 
0 : 


Antardasha 


Mars - 21 d 
Hours 


Sun 


Meon 1 12.0 2 12.0 

Mars 1 1 18.0 1 5.4 
Rahu 2 4 12.0 3 3.6 
Jupiter 2 4 0.0 2 19.2 
Saturn 2 4 18.0 3 7.8 
Mercury 2 4 6.0 2 23.4 
Ketu 1 1 18.0 1 5.4 
Venus 3 5 0.0 3 12.0 
Sun 1 1 1.2 
Moon 1 


Rahu 

Jupiter 

Saturn 9 0.6 
Mercury 8 1.8 
Ketu 3 7.8 
Venus 9 12.0 
Sun 2 20.4 
Moon 4 18.0 
Mars 3 7.3 
Rahu 8 11.0 
Jupiter 7 


Mercury 

Ketu 2 23.4 

Venus 8 10 0.9 
Sun 2 3 0.6 
Moon 4° 5 0.0 
Mars 2 3 12.0 
Rabu 7 9 0.0 
Jupiter 6 8 0.9 
Satum 8 9 12.0 
Mercury 8 : 
Ketu 3 


45 


Example Chart 


(Completed years 40 + Birth nakshatra 11 + 3) + 8 
= 54+8 0:6 R: 6. 
Thus we get a quotient of 6, which is to be ignored, and a 
remainder of 6, which shows that the first dasha in the year will 
be Ulka. 


Lords of Yogini Dashas and their Duration 


The above-mentioned eight Yogini dashas are ruled by their lords. 
These, along with the duration of these dashas, are tabulated in 
Table V-4. 


Table V-4 
Dasha Lord Duration (days) 
1. Mangala Moon 10 
2. Pingala Sun 20 
3. Dhanya Jupiter 30 
4. Bhraman Mars 40 
5. Bhadrika Mercury 50 
6. Ulka Saturn 60 
7. Siddha Venus 70 
8. Sankata Rahu/Ketu 80 


Tt will thus be seen that alternating Yogini dashas belong to 
benefics and malefics, and are, therefore, alternatively good or 


bad. 


Balance of Yogini Dasha 


As in the case of the Mudda dasha, the balance of Yogini dasha 
at the beginning of the year must also be determined. 

In the Example Chart, where we have already seen that the 
Ulka dasha operates at the time of the commencement of the 
year, the balance of the Ulka can be determined from the 
untraversed part of the Moon's nakshatra at birth. The formula 
for this is: 


46 


(Total duration of Ulka, ic, 60 days x The un-traversed 
portion of the Moon's nakshatra at birth, i.e., 9°32' in our case)+ 
the total duration of a nakshatra, ie., 13°20". 

This gives us a value of 42.9 days. Thus the year starts with 
an Ulka balance of 42.9 days. The remaining part of the Ulka, 
of 17.1 days, will operate toward the end of the year. 

The Yogini dasha periods for the native, for his forty-first year 
starting from 20th August 1984, are shown in table V-5. 


Table V-5 
Dasha Duration Ends on 

m d d m y 
1. Ulka 1 12.9 3 10 1984 
2. Siddha 2 10.0 13 12 1984 
3. Sankata 2 20.0 3 3 1985 
4. Mangala 0 10.0 13 3 = 1985 
5. Pingata 0 20.0 3 4 1985 
6. Dhanya 1 0.0 5 1985 
7. Bhramari 1 10.0 13 6 1985 
8. Bhadrika 1 20.0 3 8 1985 
9. Ulka 0 17.1 20 g 1935 


The sub-periods in the Yogini dasha may also be worked out 
proportionately. 


THE PATYAYINI DASHA 


This dasha, unlike the Mudda and the Yogini, is not nakshatra- 
based. It depends on the degrees of longitude of a planet after 
deleting the completed rashis or signs. The seven planets, from 
the Sun to Satum, and the lagna, participate in this system. 

The Krishamshas : The longitudes of the seven planets, from 
the Sun to Saturn, and the mid-point of the lagna, are noted 
down in signs, degrees, minutes (and seconds). The signs. are 
ignored, The remaining degrees and minutes (and seconds) in 
each case constitute the Krishamshas of the various planets and 
the lagna. The Krishamshas are then tabulated in the ascending 
order. For the Example chart, the Krishamshas are tabulated 
in Table V-6,. 


47 


Table V-6 
Example Chart: The Krishamshas in ascending order 


Planets Sun Mar Ase Jup Man Sat Mer = Ven 
Krshamshas 3°50! a2 9°26" 738" 3°40" 1713820 21°45" 

This ascending order of the Krishamshas determines the 
dasha order in the Patyayini dasha system. 

The Patyamshas: The dasha ford with the minimum 
Krishamshas has the same value for its Patyamshas. Thus, in the 
above example, the value for the Sun’s Patyamshas is the same 
as its Krishamshas in the above table, i.e., 3°50". 

To find out the Patyamshas of the next planet, i.e., Mars, in 
the dasha order, subtract the Krishamshas of the preceding planet, 
in this case the Sun, from the Krishamshas of the planet 
concerned. Thus, in the Example Chart, the Patyamsha value for 
Mars will be 3°52’ (7°42' - 3°50' = 3°52’). 

The next dasha in order in the above example is that of the 
ascendant whose Patyamsha will be determined by subtracting 
the Mars’ Krishamshas from those of the ascendant. Thus, by 
successively subtracting the Krishamshas of one dasha lord from 
those of the next higher in order, we get the Patyamshas of all 
the eight dasha lords (i.e., the seven planets and the lagna). 

The Patyamshas of the various dasha lords in respect of the 
Example Chart are tabulated in table V-7. 


Table V-7 
Example Chart : the Patyamshas 

Dasha lords Sun Mar Ase, «= up, «= Mon Sat) Ss Mer Ven 
Krishamshas 3°50" 742" 9°26 33° 94g 17°13 18°20 21°45" 
Patyamshas 3°50! 3°52" i*44’ 0°12’ 0°02' 733 Vor 3°25" 

When the Patyamshas of all the dasha lords are totalled, they 
are equal to the Krishamshas of the last dasha lord, i.e., the dasha 
lord with the highest Krishamsha value. 
Calculating the Duration of Dashas 


The highest value of Krishamsha expressed in degrees, minutes, 
etc., is equivalent to one year (365 days). The Patyamshas 


48 


represent the proportional periods of time (i.c., the Patyayini 
dasha) for the various dasha lords. For example, in the above case, 
the Patyayini dasha of the Sun will be obtained by the formula: 


365 days x 3°50' (.ec., the Patyamshas of the Sun) 
21°45' (the highest Krishamsha value, that of Venus here) 


Table V-8 gives the Patyayini dasha duration for the year in 
the case of the native of our Example Chart. 


Table V-8 
Example Chart : The Patyayini dasha 
Dasha Duration Ends on 
(days) d m y 
1. Sun 64.33 23 1G 1984 
2. Mars 64.89 27 12 §=1984 
3, Ascendant {Lagna) 29,09 25 1 1985 
4, Jupiter 3.36 28 1 1985 
5, Moon 0.56 29 1 1985 
6. Satum 126.70 5 6 1985 
7, Mercury 18.74 23 6 1985 
8. Venus 57.34 20 8 1985 


It may be noted here that instead of considering 365 days 
in a year while calculating this dasha, it may be found convenient 
to consider 360 days as in the nakshatra dashas, without much 
appreciable error. 


The Sub-periods or the Antardashas 


For each dasha (or MD) as calculated above, it is possible, and 
appropriate, to calculate the sub-periods (or AD) using the 


formula 
(Dasha duration of MD lord x Dasha duration of AD lord) + 365 


The result will be the AD in days. 

Let us, for example, calculate the sub-periods during the MD 
of the Sun in the above example. 

Total duration of the Sun MD = 64.33 days. 


The AD of: 

Sun = (64.33 x 64.33) + 365 
Mars = (64.33 x 64.89) + 365 
Ascendant = (64.33 x 29.09) + 365 
Jupiter = {64.33 x 3.36) + 365 
Moon = (64.33 x 0.56) + 365 
Saturn = (64.33 x 126.70} + 365 
Mercury = (64.33 x 18.74) + 365 
Venus = (64.33 x 57.34) + 365 


Sun (August 20, 1984 to October 23, 1984) 


ON AWA WN 


tl 


lid 811h 
lid 10.48 h 
5d 3.05 h 
Od 14.21 h 
Od 2.37 h 
22d =7.93 h 
3d 7.27 hh 
10d 2.54h 


49 


Table V-9 shows the sub-periods in the major period of the 


Table V-9 
Sub-periods in the major period of the Sun 

Sub-period Duration 

days hours 

Sun 11 8.11 

Mars il 10.48 

Ascendant 5 3.05 

Jupiter 0 14.21 

Moon 0 2.37 

Satum 22 7.93 

Mercury 3 7.27 

. Venus 10 2.54 


Ends on 

m y 

8 1984 
9 1984 
9 1984 
9 1984 
9 1984 
10 1984 
10 1984 
10 1984 


CHAPTER VI 
OF PLANETARY STRENGTHS 


You in your sturdy strength hold fast the forests, 
clamping the trees all firmly to the ground, 
when rains and lightning issue from your clouds. 


‘RIG VEDA’ 


Planets give favourable or adverse results depending upon their 
strength or weakness in the annual chart. Three different methods 
are employed for determining the planetary strength in the annual 
chart. Of these, the most elaborate though less often employed 
method is the Dwadashavargiya Bala or the twelve-fold strength 
of a planet. The simplest to determine is the Harsha Bala. But 
the one that is most popular and useful is the Panchavargiya Bala 
or the five-fold strength of a planet. This last method is the one 
that will be most often referred to in the discussion of various 
charts. These methods are being discussed below, 


THE HARSHA BALA 


Harsha literally means ‘happiness’. Planets are comfortable or 
‘happy’ in certain situations which provide them with 4a/a or 
strength. In the determination of strength by this method, four 
factors are considered. They are: 


(a) Position of a planet in a specific house; 
(b) Placement in its exaltation sign or in its own house; 
{c) Placement in a house belonging to its own sex; and 


(d) Strength depending upon the Varsha-pravesha being during 
the daytime or night-time. 


Jl 


These factors are individually considered below. 


1. 


Sthana Bala (Positional strength}: Planets get strength 
when placed in certain specific houses in the. annual chart. 
This is also referred to as the Prathama Baila (the ‘First’ 
strength, or the first state of being in ‘Harsha’). According 
to this, the Sun in the ninth house of the annual chart, the 
Moon in the third house, Mars in the sixth house, Mercury 
in the lagna, Jupiter in the eleventh house, Venus in the fifth 
house, and Saturn in the twelfth house, are said to acquire 
Harsha Bala because of their location. 


In the Example Chart, only Saturn, located in the twelfth 
house of the annual chart, gets this strength. 


Uchcha-Swakshetri Bala (Strength from exaltation or own 
sign): This, the Dwitiya Bala (the ‘Second’ strength), is 
granted to a planet which is either exalted or located in its 
own house. 


In the Example Chart, this strength is granted to the. Sun 
(own house), the Moon (exalted), Mars (own house), Jupiter 
(own house), and Saturn (exalted). 


Stri-Purusha Bala (Strength from gender) : In the annual 
chart, the houses 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, and 9 are feminine houses. 
The remaining ones, i-e., Roiides 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, and 12 are 
masculine houses. Female planets (Moon, Mercury, Venus 
and Saturn) get this Tritiya. Ba/a (the ‘Third’ strength) by 
their location in the feminine houses, while the male planets 
(Sun, Mars and Jupiter) obtain this strength by their location 
in the masculine houses. 


In the Example Chart, of the male planets, the Sun gets 
strength by its location in the tenth (a masculine) house. Of 
the female planets, the Moon gets strength by its location 
in the seventh (a feminine) house. 


Dina-Ratri Bala (Strength from ‘day’ and ‘night’): Male 
planets acquire the Chaturtha Bala (the ‘Fourth’ strength) 
when the year commences during day time. The female 
planets get it when the Varshapravesha occurs during night 
time. 


Tn the Example Chart, the Varshapravesha being during day- 
time, the male planets (Sun, Mars and Jupiter) get strength. 


Charting the Harsha Bala 


Each of the above mentioned four factors yields a strength of 
five units to a planet which is appropriately located in the annual 
chart. For each of the seven planets (Sun to Saturn, excluding 
Rahu and Ketu), the total of all the four ‘strengths’ gives the 
Harsha Bala for the planet. Table VI-1 shows the Harsha Bala 
of planets in respect of the Example Chart. 


Table VI-1 
Example Chart : the Harsha bala of planets 


Sun Mon Mar Mer “Jup Ven Sat 


1. ‘First Bala 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 
2. ‘Second’ Bala 5 5 5 0 5 0 5 
3. ‘Third’ Bala 5 5 0 0 0 0 0 
4. ‘Forth’ Bala 5 0 5 0 5 0 3) 

Total 15 10 10 0 10 0 10 


Interpreting the Harsha Bala 


A planet can have a maximum of twenty units of Harsha Bala, 
but it is rather unusual for it to do so. Generally, the maximum 
strength acquired by the planet is 15 units. Depending upon the 
Harsha Bala acquired by a planet, it may be allotted one of the 
four categories as follows: 


(a) Nirbala {no strength), when the score is zero. 

(b) Alpabali (weak), when the score is five. 

(c) Madbya Bali (of medium strength), when the score is ten. 
(d) Poorna Bali (fully strong), when the score is fifteen. 


As mentioned above, in unusual circumstances, a planet may 
possess a strength of rwenty units, in which case it may be labelled 
as extra-ordinartly strong. Such a situation may occur, for example, 
in a case of Varshapravesha at night with an exalted Moon in 
the third house. 


53 


In the Example Chart, the maximum strength has been 
acquired by the Sun, the planet indicating official status and 
matters concerning the government. 


THE PANCHA-VARGIYA BALA 


The Pancha-vargiya Bala refers to five sources or divisions of 
strength. This is the most important ‘Bala to be determined 
since on this depends the selection of the Varshesha or the ruler 
of the year. This method yields numerical values of strength 
for different planets. In the annual chart, whenever the relative 
strength of planets is referred to, it is the Panchavargiya Bala 
that is generally meant. 


The Planetary Relationships 


An understanding of the mutual relationship of various planets 
is essential in order to arrive at the Pancha-vargtya Bala of planets. 
The mutual relationship as applicable to the annual chart has 
already been discussed. It is being briefly reiterated here. 

A friendly relationship exists between planets located in houses 
3, 5, 9 and 11 from each other. An inimical relationship exists 
between those located in houses 1, 4, 7 and 10 from each other. 
A neutral relationship exists between planets in houses 2, 6, 8 and 
12 from each other. The mutual relations in respect of the 
Example Chart have been depicted in Table VI-2. 


Table VI-2 
Mutual relationship of planets in the example chart 


Friends Enemies Equals 
Sun — Jup, Sat Mon, Mar, Mer, Ven 
Mon Sun, Mar, Mer, Ven Jup Sat 
Mar Sun, Mon Mer, Ven Jup Sat 
Mer — Jup Sat’ Sun, Mon, Mar, Ven 
Jup Sun, Mer 

Ven, Sat Mon, Mar 
Ven — Jup, Sat Sun, Mon, Mar, Mer - 
Sat Sun, Mer, Mon, Mar 


Jup, Ven 


54 


The Pancha Vargas (the five divisions) 


In the determination of the Pancha-vargtya Bala, the following 

five factors are considered. 

1. Grtha Bala or Kshetra Bala : This 1s the strength of a planet 
as indicated by its location in its own house, or in the house 
of another planet, depending upon the relationship between 
the two. 


2. Uthcha Bala: Depends on how close (or how far removed) 
a planet is located from its point of exaltation (or 
debilitation). 


Hudda Bala : A special feature of the Tajika system. 


4. Drekkana Baia: Another special feature, since the Drekkana 
considered here is peculiar to the Pancha-vargiya Bala. 


5. Navamsha Bala : Depends on the placement of a planet in 
the Navamsha chart. 


The Measure of Bala 


The strength of planets in the Pancha-vargiya Bala is expressed 
in units called the Vishwa Bala or the Visheshanka Bala (VB). The 
VB is arrived at by adding up the total strength of a planet 
obtained after considering the above mentioned five factors, and 
then dividing this total by four. A planet in its own sign gets 
a strength of 30 units, in tts deep exaltation 20 units, in its own 
Hudda 15 units, in its own Drekkana 10 units, and in its own 
Navamsha 5 units. Thus a planet can get a maximum of 80 units 
of strength, equivalent to a VB of 20 (80 + 4 = 20). 

When a planet is not in its own sign, its own Hudda, its own 
Drekkana, or its own Navamsha, its strength is appropriately 
reduced. This reduction is effected to three-fourths in the house 
ofa friend, to one-half in the house of an equal or neutral, and 
to one-fourth in the house of an enemy. Table VI-3 gives the 
strength of a planet in units, depending on its location in different 
houses, and on its consideration in various vargas. 

One unit of strength consists of sixty sub-units. For example, 
when a planet in the Navamsha is placed in its own house, its 
strength is 5 units; when it is in the house of a friend, its strength 


Table VI-3 
Strength of a Planet in units depending on its 
placement in a particular house 


Vargas Cee ree 
1. 30 2 15 


Eenemy 


Rashi 07 
(Kshetra) 60 30 60 30 

2. Hudda 03 
45 

3. Drekkana 02 
30 


Navamsha 


is 3:45 units; in the house of an equal, its strength would be 2:30 
units; and in the house of an enemy, it would be 1:15 units. While 
the strength of planets is customarily measured as indicated 
above, it is perfectly all right to translate it in the decimal fraction. 
The above values would then correspond to 5.0, 3,75, 2.5 and 
1.25 units respectively. 

We now proceed to calculate individually the five-fold 
strength of planets. 


I. Griha Bala or Kshetra Bala 
Tt will be of help to consider the Example Chart. 
(i) «The Sun is in its own house (Leo), so its Griha Bala is 30 


units. 


(ii) The Moon is in the house of Venus, an enemy here, So, the 
Moon's strength is 7:30 units. 


(ii) Mars in its own house gets 30 units. 

(iv) Mercury in enemy's house gets 7:30 units. 

(v) Jupiter in its own house gets 30 units. 

(vi) Fenus in. the house of an enemy gets 7:30 units. 


(vii) Saturn in the house of a friend gets 22:30 units. 


56 


Ii. Uchcha Bala 
A planet in deep exaltation gets 20 units of Uchcha Bala. The 


one in deep debilitation gets zero units. In between the exaltation 
and debilitation points, a span of 180 degrees, the strength of 
planets gets correspondingly changed. Thus, 180 degrees are 
equivalent to 20 units of Uchcha Bala. In other words, each arc 
of nine degrees (180/20 = 9) accounts for one unit of Uchcha 
Bala. The method of calculating the Uchcha Bala consists of 
finding out how far away a planet is located from its debilitation 
point (where the Uchcha Bala is zero); dividing this distance from 
its debilitation point by 9 gives us the units of Uchcha Bala for 
the planet in question. 

Method of calculating the Uchcha Baia : Subtract the debilitation 
point of a planet from its longitude in the annual chart. The 
debilitation point of a planet is situated 180° (or six signs) from 
its exaltation point. The exaltation and debilitation points of 
planets have already been described in the chapter on ‘General 
Considerations’. For ease of reference the debilitation points of 
the various planets are again given here: Sun: 190° (6*:10°); 
Moon: 213°(7*:3"); Mars : 118°(3°:28"); Mercury: 345° (115:15°); 
Jupiter: 275°(9°:5°); Venus: 177°(5°:27°); Saturn: 20° (0°:20°). 
Subtracting the debilitation point from the longitude of a planet 
will give the distance in degrees and minutes by which the planet 
is located away from its ‘zero’ strength. 


(i) Ifthe longitude of the planet in question, in the annual chart, 
does not have sufficient rashis to subtract the planet’s 
debilitation point, add 12 to the rashis of longitude and then 
subtract. 


(ii) If the result from (i) above yields a value of more than six 
rashis, subtract this from 12 rashis. Convert the resulting 
value into degrees and minutes. Dividing this by nine gives 


us the Uchcha Bala of the planet. 


Example 
(i) The longitude of the Sun : 4°:3°:50'. 
Gi) Minus the debilitation point of the Sun, Le., 6710°:0". 


57 


Since there are not sufficient rashis in the longitude of the 
Sun to effect a subtraction of the Sun's debilitation point, 
we add 12 rashis to the Sun’s longitude, which now becomes 
16°:3°:50", 


Subtracting the Sun’s debilitation point, we get : 9°:23°:50'. 


(iii) The result from step {ii) yields more than 6 rashis. So we 
subtract it from 12 rashis. 


12° - 9:23°:50' = 2°:6°:10' or 66°:10' 


(iv) Now we divides 66°:10' by nine. First we divide the degrees 
(i.c., 66) by nine and get a quotient of 7, which gives the 
units of Uchcha Bala. We also get a remainder of 3. Multiply 
this remainder by sixty (3 x 60 = 180), and add the minutes 
(10') as obtained above. This gives us a value of 190. Dividing 
this by nine, we get a quotient of 21. This gives the sub- 
units of the Uchcha Bala. Ignore the remainder from the 
second division. 


Thus, the Uchcha Bala of the Sun is 7:21 units. 
The Uchcha Bala of the remaining planets as calculated by 
the above method would be as follows: 


Moon 19:15 units 
Mars 11:04 units 
Mercury 17:02 units 
Jupiter 02:49 units 
Venus 03:55 unit; 
Saturn 19:41 units. 


III. Hudda Bala 


The Hudda is a special feature of the annual horoscopy and does 
not find its use elsewhere in astrology. It is a sort of energy for 
a graha or planet. In each sign, of thirty degrees, a specified 
number of degrees is allotted to five planets, from Mars to Saturn, 
barring the Sun and the Moon. Thus; each sign is divided into 
five parts or Huddas, each having its specific lord. The Sun and 
the Moon do not own any Hudda. The number of degrees 
allotted to different planets in different signs do not follow any 
regular pattern (see the table of Huddas, Table VI-4). Depending 


58 


upon its longitude in the annual chart, a planet falls in its own 
Hudda, or that of a friend, a foe, or a neutral, and its strength 
is accordingly determined. 

Charting the Hudda Bala in the Example Chart: Let us deal 
with the Sun first. Referring to Table VI-4, we find that the 
longitude of the Sun (Leo 3°50’) falls in the first Hudda of Leo 
which is ruled by Jupiter. The Sun has a friend in Jupiter. Hence, 
the Sun gets a Hudda Bala of 11:15 units. The Hudda Bala of 
all the planets is tabulated in Table VI-5. 


Table V1-4 
Table of Huddas 


SL Signs i 2 3 4 5 6 F 8 9 WH UH LB 
No 7 
1 Degrees 6 8 6 F 6 F 6 F BW F F BR 
Lord Jup Ven Mer Mar Jup Mer Sat Mar jup Mer Ven Ven 
2 Degrees 6 6 6 6 S 0 8 4 5 7? 6 4 
Lord Ven Mer Ven Ven Ven Ven Mer Ven Ven Jup Mer Jup 
3. Degrees 8 8 5 6 7 4 F 8 4 8 j7F 3 
Lord Mer Jup Jup Mer Sat Jup Jup Mer Mer Yen Jup Mer 
4 Degrees § S$ 7 F 6 7 F 5 5 4 5 9 
Lord Mar Sat Mar Jup Mer Mar Ven Jup Mar Sat Mar Mar 
5 Dees 5 3 6 4 6 2 2 6 4 4 § 2 
Lord Sat Mar Sat Sat Mar Sat Mar Sat Sat Mar Sat Sat 


Table V1-5 
The Hudda Bala of planets in the Example Chart 

Planct Longitude Hudda Relation Bala 

lord (units) 
1, Sun Leo 3°:50' Jupiter Friend 11:15 
2. Moon ‘Taurus 9°:40' Mercury Enemy 3:45 
3. Mars Scorpio 7°:42' Venus Enemy 3:45 
4 Mercury Leo 18°:20' Mercury Self 15:00 
5. Jupiter Sagittarius 9°:38' Jupiter Self 15:00 
6. Venus Leo 21°:45' Mercury Enemy 3:45 
7. Sacum = Libra 17°:13' Jupiter Friend 11:15 


Note: The Hudda of the Tajika system, as mentioned above, 
does not conform to any regular pattern. It is somewhat 


59 


like the Trimshamsha of Parashara where a sign is divided 
into five parts, and each part is allotted the lordship of 
a planet other than the Sun and the Moon. However, the 
regular system of Parashara is nowhere in evidence here. 
The Hudda thus offers an interesting area for further 
research. 


IV. Drekkana Bala 


The Drekkana lords for the consideration of the Panchavargiya 
Bala are different from those in the Parashari system (see Table 
VI - 6). Here the lord of the first Drekkana in Aries is Mars. 
The fords of the first Drekkana in the successive rashis are the 
planets that fall in regular order from Mars onwards (i.e., Mars, 
Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, 
Jupiter, Venus and Saturn). Begin the second Drekkana of Aries 
from the Sun, and proceed in the same order. The cycle continues 
through the third Drekkana of Aries, with its lord Venus, 
successively until the third Drekkana of Pisces whose lord 
happens to be Mars. This method of determining the Drekkana 
lord is only applicable to the Pancha-vargiya Bala. 

The Drekkana Bala as applicable to the Example Chart is 
charted in Table VI-7. 

Table VI-6 
The Drekkana Chart for the Panchavargiya Bala 


Sigs > 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 16 11 12 
Drekkane 4 


1st 


0-10° Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat Sun Mon Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat 
2nd 

10-20" Sun Mon Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat Sun Mon Mar Mer Jup 
3rd 

20-30° Ven Sat Sun Mon Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat Sun Mon Mar 


¥. Navamsha Bala 


Unlike the Drekkana as mentioned above, the Navamsha for the 
Panchavargiya Bala is the same as in the Parashari system (see 
Table VI-8). The Navamsha Bala of various planets in the 
Example Chart has been tabulated in Table VI-9. 


60 


Table VI-7 
The Drekkana Bala of planets in the Example Chart 
Planet Drekkana Drekkana __ Relation Bala 
lord (units) 
1. Sun Leo - 1 Saturn Friend 7:30 
2.: Moon Taurus - 1 Mercury Enemy 2:30 
3. Mars Scorpio - 1 Mars Self 10:00 
4, Mercury Leo - 2 Jupiter Friend 7:30 
5. Jupiter Sagittarius - 1 4 =©Mercury Friend 7:30 
6. Venus Leo - 3 Mars Enemy 2:30 
7. Saturn Libra - 2 Satum Self 10:00 
Table VI-8 
The Navamsha Chart 
Sigss > 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 48 11 12 
Navamsha 
1. 
3°20" 1 10 7 4 1 10 7 4 1 10 7 4 
2. 
640 2 11 8 S&S 2 11 8 5S 2 11 8 5S 
7 : 
10°00" 3 612 —0292~= «6&lhUB}lUhd12 CU 9lh6ULGlhlU8lUh12 DC 
4. 
13°20 440C(d14 1074 1 100 Fh OF 
5. 
647 5 2 lt 8 S 2 11 8 5S 2 21 8B 
6. 
2000" °6~ 3-12 9 6. 03. 12 9G, BO AD 9 
7. 
2320-7 4 =«1~=6«10 7 ~ «4~«21«10 7 +4 «1 «#10 
8. 
BOAO? — Boe DS TR = SBE Sh OO A BSc ad 
9. 
30°00" 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 22 


The Navamsha Bala of planets in the Example Chart 


Table VI-9 
Planet Navamsha lord 
1. Sun Venus 
2. Moon Jupiter 
3, Mars Mercury 
4, Mercury Mercury 
5. Jupiter Mercury 
6. Venus Venus 
Te Saturn Jupiter 


Relation 


Enemy 
Neutral 
Enemy 
Self 
Friend 
Self 
Friend 


61 


Bala (units) 


1:15 
2:30 
1:15 
5:00 
3:45 
5:00 
3:45 


Tabulating the Pancha-vargiya Bala 


The five-fold strength as calculated above is finally tabulated in 
the form of what is called as the Bribat-Pancha-vargtya Chart. 
Table VI-10, shows the Panchavargiya Bala of planets in respect 
of the Example Chart, tabulated under the Brihat-Panchavargiya 


Jup 


Ven 


Chart. 
Table VI-10 
The Panchavargiya Bala (Example Chart) 
Planets > Sun Mon Mar Mer 
Bala J 
Griha Bala 30 07 30 07 
00 30 00 30 
Uchcha Bala 7 19 11 17 
21 15 04 62 
Hudda Bala 11 03 03 15 
15 4S 45 00 
Drekkana Bala 07 Q2 10 07 
30 30 00 30 
Navamsha Bala 01 02 01 05 
15 30 15 00 
Total 57 35 56 52 
21 30 04 02 
Vishwa Bala 14 08 14 13 
(V.B.) 20 52 01 00 
15 30 06 30 


00 


00 


45 


Note : In calculating the VB. it is preferable to do so up co sub-sub units. 


62 


The above table shows Satur to be the strongest of all planets 
with its V.B. amounting to 16 units 47 sub-units and 
45 sub-sub-units (also expressed as 16 : 47 : 45 units). Similarly, 
Venus is the weakest planet with its V.B. being 5 : 40 : 00 units. 

While it is customary to express the Panchavargiya Bala in 
units, sub-units and sub-sub-units, as above, it is equally 
appropriate to express it in decimal fractions. The corresponding 
V.B. figures, in decimals, for the various planets will then be as 
follows: 


Sun : 14,337 
Moon : 8.875 
Mars : 14.016 
Mercury : 13.008 
Jupiter ; 14.766 
Venus : 5.666 
Saturn : 16.796 


The interpretation of the strength of a planet on the basis 
of the Panchavargiya Bala may be made as follows: 


— <A planet is said to be Parakrami (‘Extra-ordinarily’ strong) 
when its strength (i.e., the Vishwa Bala) is more than 15 
units. 


- A planet is Poorna-Baii (in ‘Full’ strength) when its V.B. is 
10 to 15 units. 


~ Aplanet is Madhya-Balt (of ‘Medium’ strength) when its V.B. 
is 5 to 10 units. 


- A planet is Al/pa-Bali (‘Weak’) when its V.B. is less than $ 


units. 


It is noteworthy that in the Example Chart, all the planets 
(except the Moon and Venus) are very strong; Saturn is 
extra-ordinarily so. 


THE DWADASHAVARGIYA BALA 


The Dwadashavargiya Bala represents the twelve-fold strength 
of planets. This is arrived at by taking into consideration the 


63 


location of a planet in twelve different vargas or divisions of a 
rashi. The twelve components of the Dwadashavargiya Bala are: 


Rashi or the complete sign comprising 30°. 

Hora or half the sign (15°) : Table VI-11. 

Drekkana or one-third (10°) : Table VI-12. 
Chaturthamsha or one-fourth (7°:30') : Table VI-13. 
Panchamamsha or one-fifth (6°) : Table VI-14. 
Shashtamsha or one-sixth (5°) : Table VI-15. 
Saptamsha or one-seventh (4°:17':8.5") = Table. VI-16. 
Ashtamamsha or one-eighth (3°:45'): Table VI-17. 
Navamsha or one-ninth (3°:20') : Table VI-8. 

10. Dashamamsha or one-tenth (3°) : Table VI-18. 

11. Ekadashamsha or one-eleventh (2°:43':38") : Table VI-19. 
12. Dwadashamsha or one-twelfth (2°:30') : Table VI-20. 


In each of the vargas or divisions mentioned above, the 
planet’s position is noted, depending upon its longitude. A planet 
situated in its own house, in exaltation or in a friend’s house is 
considered strong. One in an enemy’s house or in debilitation 
is considered weak. And the one in an equal’s house is taken as 
having average strength. A strong planet is beneficial while a 
weak one is harmful or malefic. After considering all the twelve 
divisions, the relative strength or weakness, in other words the 
relative beneficence and maleficence, of a planet is determined. 


se PN DMF ON PF 


The Method of Casting the Vargas or the Divisional Charts 


1. The Rashi chart is represented by the annual chart, and 
represents the first division of the Dwadashavargas. The 
mutual relationship of planets here determines whether a 
planet is a benefic or a malefic or a neutral. 


2. The Hera or the second division is arrived at thus: 


(a) The first 15 degrees in an odd sign belong to the Sun, 
the second 15 degrees to the Moon. 


64 


(b) In an even sign, the first 15 degrees belong to the Moon 
while the second 15 degrees belong to the Sun. 


Whether a planet is located in a benefic Hora, or a malefic 
or a neutral one, is decided by its relationship with the Hora lord 
(the Sun or the Moon). 


3. The Drekéana or the third division: In a given sign, the first 
10 degrees belong to the same sign, the next 10 degrees to 
the sign fifth from it, and the last 10 degrees to the sign 
placed in the ninth from it. The lords of the respective signs 
become the Drekkana lords. A planet's relationship with its 
Drekkana lord decides whether it is a benefic or a malefic 
or a neutral in effect according to its Drekkana position, 


4. The Chaturthamsha or the fourth division: In a given sign, the 
first 7°:30' belong to the same sign, the next (7°30' to 15°) 
to the sign falling in the fourth house from it, the next (15° 
to 22°30") to the sign in the seventh from it, and the last 
(22°30' to 30°) to the sign falling in the tenth from it. The 
planets behave as benefics or malefics or neutrals depending 
on their disposition toward their Chaturthamsha lords. 


5. The Panchamamsha or the fifth division: In an odd sign, the 
first six degrees belong to Mars, the next six degrees to 
Saturn, the next to Jupiter, the next to Mercury, and the last 
six degrees belong to Venus. In the even signs, this order of 
lordship is reversed with Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn and 
Mars, in this order, owning the six successive degrees in a 
sign. Note that the planetary allotment here is exactly like 
the Trimshamsha of the Parashari system though the degree- 
wise division is not the same. 


6. The Shashtamsha, the Saptamamsha, the Ashtamamsha, the 
Navamsha, and the Ekadashamsha (the sixth, the seventh, the 
eighth, the ninth and the eleventh divisions) : Any of these 
divisions for a planet may be obtained in the following 
manmer. 


(a) Step one: 


Longitude of the planet x 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 11 
30 


65 


(b) Step two: Add one to the quotient obtained above. 


(c) Step three: Divide the value obtained after step two by 
12. The remainder gives the sign in which the planet falls 
in the respective division or Varga. 


For example, the longitude of the Sun is Leo 3°50' or 123°50'. 
The Shashtamsha or the sixth division for the Sun can be worked 
out thus: 


Gi): 123°S0' x 6 
30 


Gi) The quotient obtained from step one is 24. Adding 
one, we get 25. 


(in) Dividing 25 by 12, we get a remainder of 1. Thus, 
the Sun falls in the sign Aries (signified by the 
remainder 1) in the Shashtamsha. Aries belongs to 
Mars, which is an enemy of the Sun in the Example 
Chart. Hence the Sun could be considered a malefic 
in the Shashtamsha. However, the Sun gets exalted 
in Aries and must be considered a benefic, Exaltation 
and debilitation should take precedence over normal 
mutual relationship. In the same manner, other 
Vargas indicated above can be worked out. 


7. The Dashamamsha or the tenth division: In odd signs, the first 
three degrees belong to the same sign, the next three degrees 
to the sign next in order, and so on. In even signs, the first 
three degrees belong to the sign falling in the ninth from 
itself, the next three degrees to the next (or the tenth) sign, 
and so on. 


8. The Dwadashamsha or the twelfth division ; Each sign is 
divided into twelve divisions of 2°30' each. The first part 
belongs to the same sign, the next to the sign next in order, 
and so on. 


In the Example Chart, the Sun is in its own rashi, hence 
strong or benefic. It is in its own Hora, in its own Drekkana, 
and in its own Chaturthamsha, hence benefic in each case. It 
falis in the Panchamamsha of Mars as also in the Shastamsha 
of Mars. In both these cases, it is exalted, hence a benefic. In 


Table VI-11 
The Hora Chart 

Signs > 1 2 3 4 5 6 rd 8 9 10 11 12 
Degree 4 
1. @°-15° Sun Mon Sun Mon Sun Mon Sun Mon Sun Mon Sun Mon 
2. 15°-30° Men Sun Mon Sun Mon Sun Mon Sun Mon Sun Mon Sun 

Table VI-12 

The Drekkana Chart 

Signs > 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 g 9 10 11 12 
Drekkana J 
Ist 0°-10° 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 g 9 10 11 12 
2nd —10°-20° 5 6 7 g 9 10 il 12 1 2 3 4 


3rd =. 20°-30° 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 


99 


Table Vi-13 
The Chaturthamsha Chart 


Signs > 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Chaturthamsa 4 
Ist 0°-7°30' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
2nd = 7°30'-15°0' 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 
3rd -15°G'-22°30' 7 8 3 10 j1 12 1 2 3 4 5 
4th 22°30'-30°0' 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 3) 7 8 9 
Table VI-14 
The Panchamamsha chart 
Serial Degrees Odd Signs Even Signs 
No (1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11) (2, 4, 6, 8, £0, 12) 
Lords Lords 
1. 0°- 6° Mar Ven 
2. 6°-12° Sat Mer 
3. 12°-18° Jup Jup 
4, 18°-24° Mer Sat 
5. 24°-30° Ven Mar 


L9 


Table VI-15 
The Shashtamsha Chart 
SL Signs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
No. Shashtarnsha 4 
1. o°- 5° 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 l 7 1 7 
2 5°-10° 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 
3, 10°-15° 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 
4. 15°-20° 4 10 4 ‘10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 
5. 20°-25° 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 
6. 25°-30" 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 
Note: The 1st Shashtamsha in odd signs starts from Aries and in even signs from Libra. 
Table VI-16: The Saptamsha Chart 
SL Signs > 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
No. Saptamsha + 
1, 4°17'08" 1 8 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 6 
2. $°34'17" 2 9 4 li § 1 8 3 10 5 12 7 
3 12°51'25" 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 6 i 8 
4, 17°8'34" 4 11 6 1 g 3 10 5 12 Sof 2 9 
5, 21°25'43" 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 6 1 8 3 10 
6. 25°42'51" 6 1 8 3 16 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 
a 30°0'0" 7 2 9 4 11 6 1 8 3 10 5 12 


89 


Oo: 


PN AMA WHE |TZM 


Ze 


SON DN BON ms 


ms 


Table VI-17: The Ashtamamsha Chart 


Signs > 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
. Ashtamamsha J 
3°45" 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 
7°30! 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 
41°15' 3 11 7 3 VW 7 3 
15°0' 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 
18°45" 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 
22°30' 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 
26°15' 7 3 11 7 3 il 7 
30°0' 8 4 i2 8g 4 12 8 


Signs — 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
. Dashamamsha 4 
P= 3° i 10 3 12 5 2 7 
3°-6° 2 11 4 1 6 3 8 
6-9" 3 12 5 2 7 4 9 
9"-12° 4 1 6 3 § 5 10 
12°-15° 5 2 7 4 9 6 li 
15°-18" 6 3 8 5 10 7 12 
18°-21° 7 4 9 6 11 8 1 
21°-24" 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 
24°-27° 9 6 11 8 1 10 3 
27-30° 10 7 12 9 2 14 4 


— 
i] 


on~rnin hk Wh Re 


69 


SL. Signs > 
No. Ekadashamsha + 
0°0'0"-2°43'38” 
2°43°38"-5°27'16" 
5°27'16"-8°10'S4" 
8°10'54"-10°54'32" 
10°S4'32"~13°38'11" 
13°38'11"-16°21'49" 
16°21'49"-19°5'27" 
19°5'27"-21°49'5" 
21°49°5"-24°32'44" 
10, 24°32'44"-27°16'22" 
1. 27°16'22"-30°0'0" 


oN DB MR WN 


so 


pet 


Oo CO NT A tw BF WY WH eR 


i sane 
ee © 


a 
Do ON A th Rh BH OM BP WD 


pee 
=] 


3 


11 


wo on oO Ww & WY Hw Re 


Table V1-19 
The Ekadashamsha Chart 
4 5 6 
10 9 8 
11 10 9 
12 11 10 
1 12 11 
2 1 12 
3 2 1 
4 3 2 
5 4 3 
6 5 4 
7 6 5 
8 7 6 


wo Oo NS A 


i 
bo 


eo 6S 4 DH WM ff HS NI 


ee ee 
= © 


04 


Sl. Signs > 

No. Dwadashamsha 4 
1, 0°O'-2°30 
2. 2°30'-5°0' 
3, 5°0'-7°30' 
4, 7°30'-10°0' 
5. 10°0'-12°30' 
6. 12°30'-15°0' 
7. 15°0'-17°30" 
8, 17°30'-20°" 
9. 20°0'-22°30° 
10. 22°30'-25°0' 
il. 25°0'-27°30 
12. 27°30'-30°C' 


Oo Co 8S DAD WH SB WwW Ne 


10 


12 


wo Cos HO UO SF WY 


10 


Table VI-20 
The Dwadashamsha Chart 


6 


oo SN] Om th kek WH BR Oe 


ww CO NS DA tH BR & he 


— 
a 


on 
No 


wo AN DO Ww & WB WH 


_— 
oS 


— 
bo 


— 
ow won DB tA BR we HF WN 


bb pmb 
we © 


Té 


72 


the Saptamsha as well as the Ashtamamsha, it falls in its own 
sign and the sign of a friend (Saturn) respectively, being benefic 
in either case, It falls in the Navamsha of Venus, an enemy (hence 
malefic), the Dashamamsha of Mercury, another enemy (hence 
malefic), in the Ekadashamsha of Saturn, a friend (hence benefic), 
and in the Dwadashamsha of Mercury (again malefic). Thus, out 
of the twelve factors considered, the Sun is a benefice in nine and 
a malefic in three. The Sun thus behaves as a benefic. The 
Dwadashavargiya Bala of all the planets can thus be worked out. 
The relevant tables may be referred to for convenience. The 
Dwadashavargiya Bala of planets in the Example Chart has been 
presented in Table VI-21. 


Table VI-21 
The Dwadashavargiya Bala of Planets 

The Division Sun Mon Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat 
1. First B B B M B M B 
2. Second B B M M B M N 
3. Third B B B B B M B 
4. Fourth B M N B B B N 
5. Fifth B M M B B M B 
6. Sixth B M B M B M N 
7. Seventh B N M B B B B 
8. Eighth B N N M B B B 
9. Ninth M N M B B B B 
10. Tenth M M M B B B B 
11. Eleventh B M B B N M M 
12. Twelfth M M N M B M M 
Total B : 9 3 4 7 11 § 7 
M: 3 6 5 5 0 7 2 

N : 0 3 3 0 1 0 3 


B : Benefic, M : Malefic, N : Neutral 


The above elaborate method of taking into consideration the 
twelve different sources of strength is very useful. However, the 
Panchavargiya Bala has the advantage of providing the exact 


73 


numerical strength of a planet. In the subsequent discussions, 
whenever the strength of a planet is referred to, it will be the 
Panchavargiya strength that will be meant. 


INTERPRETATION OF THE DASHAS 


Depending upon the strength of various dasha lords according 
to their Panchavargiya Bala, the different dashas produce good 
or bad results. A very general indication is being given here of 
the nature of results that may issue forth in different dashas. 
These must be interpreted along with other important factors in 
the annual chart as also the promise in the birth chart. 


The Lagna 
1. Strong: Good health, monetary gains, respect from near and 
Gear ones, 


2. Of medium strength: Foreign travel (displacement), loss of 
fame, un-desirable expenditure. 


3. Weak: Bad health, loss of money, even death. 


Note: The strength of the lagna depends upon the strength of 
its lord as well as the association of the lagna with its 
Jord and with natural benefics. 


The Sun 
‘1. Very strong: Vehicles, high status, authority. 


2. Strong: All the above to a slightly lesser extent; generally 
favourable. 

3. Of medium strength: Struggles, opposition at the place of 
work, biliary ailments. 


4, Weak: Fear from the ones in authority and from enemies, 
loss of wealth, ill health, loss of discrimination. 


Note: The Sun in the houses 3, 6, 10 and 11 produces 
favourable results even when it is weak. 


The Moon 


1. Very strong: Increased wealth, association with women, 
acquisition of precious stones. . 

2. Strong: Generally good results pertaining to the above 
indications. 


74 


3. Of medium strength : Loss of wealth, opposition from near and 
dear ones, phlegmatic ailments. 


4. Weak: Defamation, loss of wealth and virtue, chest diseases. 


Mars 
1. Very strong: Position of authority (in Army/Police), victory 


in wars, fulfilment of desires. 
Strong: Wealth, status, favours from the ruler. 


3. Of medium strength: Fear from enemies, inflammatory 
diseases, biliary ailments. 


4, Weak: Quarrels, strife at home-and at the place of work, fear 
from foes, blood disorders, fever. 


Note: Favourable results accrue when Mars is in houses 3, 6 
and 11. 


Mercury 


1. Very strong: Gain of knowledge and learning, attainment of 
status, increase of fame, and appointment as an ambassador 
or a minister. 


2. Strong: Gain of wealth through friends, gum or writings, 
comforts from the near and dear ones. 


3. Ofmedium strength : Loss of fame, ill temper, injury from fall, 
fear of ill health. 


4. Weak: Distorted reasoning, loss of wealth, fear of 
imprisonment, foreign travel. 

Jupiter 

1, Very strong: Favours from the ruler, guru, friends and elders, 
attainment of fame, wealth and virtue, child birth. 


2. Strong: Virtuous deeds, favours from the superiors, increased 
enthusiasm, success in undertakings. 


3. .Of medium strength: Illness, poverty, ear ailment, loss of 
wealth and virtue. 


4. Weak: Varied troubles and ailments, domestic strife, loss of 
wealth. 


75 


Venus 


i. 


Very strong: Gain of wealth, comforts, vehicles, and wife, 
good health, general contentment. 


2, Strong: Gains from business, good food and drinks, good 
clothes, favours from fnends and women. 

3. Of medium strength: Altered thinking, loss of wealth, ill 
health, opposition from the fair sex. 

4. Weak: Opposition from the near and dear ones, ill health to 
wife, distorted reasoning, foreign travel. 

Saturn 

1. Very strong : New house, new clothes, acquisition of new land, 
increased wealth from association with the ruler. 

2. Strong: Association with older women, acquisition of cattle 
and vehicles. 

3. Of medium strength: Fear from foes and thieves, penury, ill 
health. 

4. Weak : Varied calamities and disappointments, domestic strife, 
death. 

Note : 


(i) Saturn, like the Sun and Mars, is particularly favourable 
when located in houses 3, 6 and 11. 


(ii) There is no such calculation for Rahu or Ketu though 
their dashas are considered. It is likely that Saturn's 
strength is representative of Rahu’s, and Mars’ strength 
of Ketu’s. This requires elaborate testing before practical 
application. 


CHAPTER VII 
THE LORD OF THE YEAR 


Fits comrades all rejoice when their friend returns 
covered with glory, proclaimed vittor in the assembly. 
He frees them from their sin, provides them with food. 
Prepared is he, fit for the competition. 


‘RIG VEDA’ 


The lord of the year, also called the Varshesha or the Varsheshwara, 
is an important planet in the annual chart. It is supposed to 
significantly influence the events that take place during the 
year. A strong Varsha lord (or the Varshesha} ensures success, 
prosperity and good health throughout the year in question, while 
a weak one indicates the reverse. The Varsha lord is selected out 
of the five planets which hold special significance during the year. 


THE FIVE OFFICE-BEARERS (PANCHADHIKARIS) 
In the annual! chart, there are five office-bearers which hold a 
special significance. These office-bearers hold five different 
portfolios. One of these eventually qualifies for the post of 
Varshesha or the year lord. These five office-bearers are: 


1. Muntha Pati (or the Munthesha), i.e., the lord of the sign 
in which the Muntha is located. 


2. jJanma Lagna Pati (or the Janmesha), i.¢., the lord of the 
ascendant in the birth chart. 


3. Varsha Lagna Pati (or the Varsha Lagnesha), i.e., the lord of 
the ascendant in the annual chart. 


4. Tri-Rashi Paéi, i.e., the lord of the Tri-Rashi; this is to be 
described separately. 


77 


5, Dina-Ratri Pati: This is the lord of the Sun sign in the case 
of Varshapravesha occurring during day time {hence called 
the Dina Pati or the lord of the day), and the lord of the 
Moon sign in the case of Varshapravesha occurring during 
nighttime (hence called the Rafri Pati or the lord of the 
night). 


The Tri-Rashi Pati 


The lord of the “Tri-Rashi’ varies from sign to sign, and also as 
the Varshapravesha occurs during the day time (i.e,, from sunrise 
to sunset) or during the nighttime (i.c., from sunset to sunrise), 
Table VII-1 shows the various Tri-Rashi lords for different 
lagnas. 


Table VII-1 
The Tri-Rashi Patis 

S. Varsha Tri-Rashi Pati for Varshapravesha during 
No. Lagna Day time Night time 

J. Aries Sun Jup 

2. Taurus Ven Mon 

3. Gemini Sat Mer 

4. Cancer Ven Mar 

5. Leo Jup Sun 

6. Virgo Mon Ven 

7. Libra Mer Sat 

8. Scorpio Mar Ven 

9. Sagittarius Sat Sat 

10. Capricorn Mar Mar 
11, Agquarius Jup Jup 

12. Pisces Mon Mon 


In the Example Chart under consideration, the five office- 
bearers for the year will be as follows: 


1. Muntha Pati : Jupiter 
2. Janma Lagna Pati: Sun 
3. Varsha Lagna Pati: Mars 
4, Tri-Rashi Pad > Mars 
5. Dina-Ratri Pai =: Sun 


78 


DETERMINATION OF THE YEAR LORD 


One of the above mentioned five office-bearers is now selected 
as Varshesha or the lord of the year. As is evident from the above 
example, there is no bar to one planet holding more than a single 
portfolio. The qualifications for the Varsha lord are: 


(a) It should be the strongest of the five office-bearers. 
(b) It should, at the same time, aspect the Varsha lagna. 


While considering the above qualifications for the ruler of the 
year, it may be noted that: 


(i) the relative strength of the planets is to be judged from the 
Panchavargiya chart, and 


(ii) generally, no distinction is to be made between a friendly 
aspect and an inimical aspect between the lagna and the 
planet while deciding the Varshesha. 


The Method of Selection 


The Varshesha is selected out of the five office-bearers, keeping 
the following points in view. 


1. If the strongest of the office-bearers does not aspect the 
lagna, choose the one that is next lower in strength, but 
aspecting the lagna. Aspect on the Varsha lagna is an essential 
requirement of the year lord, except under special 
circumstances. 


2. When more than one office-bearers aspect the lagna, the 
strongest of them becomes the lord of the year. 


3. When the office-bearers have equal strength, and all of them 
aspect the lagna, the one holding the greater number of 
portfolios qualifies to become the year lord. 


Note: The above mentioned condition generally does not 
arise since there is always some variation in the relative 
strength of different planets. If the Vishwa Bala has been 
calculated in the traditional manner, one should go not only 
up to units, but also to sub-units and sub-sub-units, in order 
to clearly differentiate between planets which are close to 
each other in strength. If the decimal system is employed, 


79 


it is desirable to determine the Vishwa Bala to the third 
decimal. 


4. The Muntha lord as the year lord: 


(a) When no office-bearer aspects the lagna, the Muntha 
lord assumes the lordship of the year. 


(b) When the strength of the office-bearers is less than 5 
units in the Panchavargiya chart, the Muntha lord is to 
be taken as the Varshesha. 


(c) When the five office-bearers are equal in strength, aspect 
and the number of portfolios they hold, then also the 
Muntha lord assumes the lordship of the year. However, 
see the note to article 3, vide supra. 


5. Miscellaneous views: 


(a) When no office-bearer aspects the lagna, some authorities 
bestow the year lordship upon the lord of the lagna in 
the annual chart. 


(b) Still others attribute the Varsha lordship to the 
Dina-Ratri Pati in case of otherwise equal claim (in 
respect of strength, aspect and number of portfolios) of 
the office-bearers on the year lordship. 


In the Example Chart, the five portfolios are held among 
themselves by Jupiter, Mars and the Sun. Of these, Jupiter is the 
strongest, with a Panchavargiya Bala of 14:46:0 units (14.766 
units). Being located, however, in the second house from the 
lagna, it does not aspect the lagna and, therefore, does not qualify 
for Varsha lordship. 

Of the remaining two, Mars is placed in lagna while the 
Sun aspects the lagna from the tenth house. Of these two, 
according to the Panchavargiya Bala, the Sun is stronger (V.B. 
14:20:15 units/ 14.337 units) than Mars (V.B. 14:1:0 units/ 
14.016 units). Hence, the Sun becomes the Varsha lord or the 
Varshesha. A strong Sun, the planet of royal dignity, in the tenth 
house, the house representing the government, also being the year 
lord, yustifies the shape the events took during the year. The natrve, 
at the young age of forty, became the Prime Min ister of India during 
this year. 


80 


THE MOON AS THE YEAR LORD 


The lord of the year is supposed to dominate the events during 
the year in question. The Moon, however, is considered to be 
mild in nature and, therefore, unable to ‘govern’ unless 
extra-ordinarily strong and well-positioned. In general, therefore, 
the Moon is not to be considered as Varshesha even though: 


(a) it may be the strongest of the five office-holders; and 

{b) If more than one planet establish Ithasala with the Moon, 
the strongest of them becomes the year lord. 

{c) it may be aspecting the lagna as generally required of the 

Varshesha. 

In such a situation, find out the planet next lower in strength, 
out of the five office-bearers, which also aspects the lagna. This 
planet will be the Varsha lord. 

If the Moon is the strongest of the frve office-bearers and aspects 
the lagna also, while no other office-bearer aspects the lagna, if still 
does not become the year lord. Under such a circumstance, the 
following method is employed: 

(a) Find out the planet with which this Moon establishes an 

Ithasala yoga. That planet becomes the year lord. 


(b) If more than one planet establish Ithasala with the Moon, 
the strongest of them becomes the year lord. 


(c) If the Moon does not form Ithasala with any planet, then 
the lord of the Moon sign assumes the year lordship. 


Note: The Ithasala, to be dealt with in the chapter on yogas, 
briefly means that the two planets participating in this yoga 
are in mutual aspect and the faster of the two is behind the 
slower one, An Ithasala is supposed to be favourable in 
general, When the faster-moving planet is ahead of the 
slower one, a generally unfavourable yoga, the Ishrafa yoga, 
is the result. An Ishrafa occurring between two benefics is 
generally not bad. 


In Chart VII-1, three planets (the Moon, Mercury, and 
Venus) share among themselves the five portfolios. The Moon 
happens to be the strongest (V.B. 12:28:15 units/12.471 units) 
of the three bur does not have to be considered for the year 
lordship. The next lower in strength is Mercury (V.B. 10:49:15 


Lagna = 12°53" Mars 14°43’ Venus 17°28' 
Sun 00°40" Mercury —-94"°08" Saturn 16°57" 
Moon 18°57" Jupiter (R) 16°35" Rahu 26°54 


units/10,.821 units), but Mercury does not aspect the lagna and, 
therefore, goes out of the competition. Venus, with the lowest 
strength (V.B. 9:6:30 units/9.108 units), becomes the Varsha lord 
on account of its aspect on the lagna. 

Some authorities do not look for a planet falling next lower 
in strength to the Moon. They advocate to install the planet in 
Ithasala with the Moon as the year lord in the first place. In 
the above example, the Moon has just moved ahead of Venus 
leading to an Ishrafa yoga between the two. There is no longer 
any Ithasala there. An Ishrafa between two natural benefics is, 
however, not considered bad. If we do not grant the favourable 
quality to the Ishrafa, then the next consideration falls on the 
lord of the Moon sign, which is Mercury. However, Mercury as 
the year lord will not justify the one important event during the 
year, that of marriage. Some of the combinations for marriage 
as applicable here are: 


(i) Seventh lord of the birth chart in the seventh house, with 
Venus as.the year lord. With Cancer as his birth ascendant, 
the native has his natal seventh lord, Saturn, in the seventh 
house along with Venus in the annual chart. 


(ii) Jupiter in the sign of one of the office-bearers. Jupiter here 
is in Gemini, the sign of Mercury, the lord of the lagna 
in the annual chart as also the Tri-Rashi Pati and the. Dina- 
Ratri Pati. 


82 


(iii) Venus as Varshesha aspected by Mars : Venus here is 
aspected by Mars. 

(iv) The seventh lord of the birth chart with the Muntha lord 
and the year lord in the seventh house : Saturn, the seventh 
lord of the. birth chart, is with the Muntha lord Venus in 
the seventh house. Venus must also be the year lord. 


Special Circumstances for the Moon as the Varshesha 


The Moon may be considered as the Varsha lord only in the 
following special circumstances : 


(a) Cancer rising as Varsha lagna, with the Moon in it, and the 
Moon happening to be the strongest office-bearer. 


(b) The Moon being the strongest of the office-bearers, fully 


aspecting the lagna, the Varshapravesha occurring at night, 
and the Moon also being the Tri-Rashi Pati. 


INTERPRETING THE YEAR LORD 


The year lord is the most important planet in the annual 
horoscope. It holds sway over events that take place during the 
year, While interpreting the results indicated by the year lord, 
the following points must be borne in mind 


1, Placement of the year lord in houses 6, 8 and 12 reduces its 
beneficence. Elsewhere it produces results without hindrance. 


2. Combustion and retrogression of the year lord are the other 
deterrents to its beneficence. 

3. A year lord in full strength according to the Panchavargiya 
Bala produces benefic results to the fullest extent; one in 
medium strength brings in mediocrity in benefic results; a 
weak year lord only produces bad results, disappointments 
and obstacles. An extra-ordinarily strong year lord produces 
excessively beneficial results during the year. 


4, It is also important to take into consideration the strength 
of the year lord in the birth horoscope. 

5. The year lord has dominance over the whole year. Its effects 
are generally felt throughout the year. 

6. The results of the year lord also depend on the significatorship 
of the year lord. Thus, the Sun signifies royal dignity, and 


83 


the Sun as the year lord influences one’s status and dignity, 
favourably or otherwise, during the year. The Moon signifies 
comforts and liquids, Mars signifies valour, Mercury signifies 
intellect, Jupiter signifies virtue and wisdom, Venus signifies 
physical pleasures, while Saturn signifies labour, lands and 
servants. The various year lords affect their significations 
variously. 


7. The year lord in the annual chart has been ascribed the same 
importance as the lagna lord. Thus, the involvement of the 
year lord in the formation of various Tajika yogas must also 
be considered while analysing an annual chart. 


The general results of different planets as year lords, 
depending upon their strength on the basis of the Panchavargiya 
Bala, are being described below. 


1. The Sun as the Year Lord 


(a) In full strength : Gain in wealth, name, fame and reputation, 
attainment of a position of authority, dominance over 
opponents, and fulfilment of desires. Particularly beneficial 
in houses 3, 6, 10 and 11. 


{b) Of medium strength : The above results are obtained to a lesser 
extent. In addition, there is loss of vitality, risk of opposition 
from those in authority, likelihood of illness, change of place 
of work or residence, and obstacles in undertakings. 


(c) Weak: Long-lasting illness, mental anguish, loss of wealth, 
disappointments, disgrace, enslavement, aimless wandering, 
and disagreement with the near and dear ones. 


2. The Moon as the Year Lord 


(a) In full strength: Increased wealth, gain from business, 
acquisition of physical pleasures and articles of comfort, 
attainment of rightful status, benefit from dealing in things 
white in colour, birth of a daughter. 


(b 


— 


Of medium strength: Loss of money, decline in physical 
pleasures, decreased vitality, wrath of those in authority. If 
such a Moon forms Ishrafa yoga with a malefic planet, it 
leads to phlegmatic ailments. 


84 


(c) 


(b) 


(c) 


Weak : Phlegmatic illness (Pulmonary Tuberculosis!), fall in 
status, obstacle to profession, opposition from friends and 
relatives, distant travel, lack of conjugal bliss. 


Mars as the Year Lord 


In full sérength: Dominance over opponents, success in 
litigation, elevation of status, service in Army or Police, 
increase in income and wealth. 


Of medium strength : The above results are obtained to a lesser 
degree. In addition, it may lead to physical injury, loss of 


blood, excessive anger, etc. 


Weak ; Fear from foes, thieves and fire, loss of fame, money 
and property, opposition from near and dear ones, change of 
residence, or long travel. 


Mercury as the Year Lord 


In full strength: Recognition through intellectual deeds 
(writing, reading, research, study of scriptures), elevation in 
professional status, benefit from new undertakings, 
co-operation from near and dear ones. 


Of medium strength: The above mentioned results are 
available only to a lesser degree. Additionally, there may be 
problems due to intemperance in speech and argument. 


Weak : Loss of wealth, lack of discrimination, throat ailments, 
quarrels with relatives, untruthfulness. 


5, Jupiter as the Year Lord 


(a) In full strength: Comforts at home, inclination towards 


(b) 


religious and virtuous pursuits, clarity of thought, increase in 
earnings, wealth and reputation, co-operation even from 
opponents, and acquisition of hidden wealth. 


Of medium strength : The above mentioned results accrue to 
a lesser extent. In addition, there is association with those 
in authority, and inclination towards study of books (and 
scriptures!). If Jupiter is involved in an Ishrafa (q.v.) with a 
mialefic, there is loss of wealth. 


85 


(c) Weak: Loss of wealth and comforts, decline of virtue, 
disgrace, separation from spouse and children, physical 
ailment. 


6. Venus as the Year Lord 


(a) In full strength : Good health, plenty to earn, eat and enjoy, 
inclination towards study of scriptures, elevation of professional 
status, conjugal bliss, and varied comforts. 


(b) Ofmedium strength : Mediocre earnings, increase of opponents, 
loss of fame, undisclosed anguish or ailment. 


{c) Weak: Mental anguish, disgrace, obstacle to profession, 
opposition from friends and children, failure in undertakings, 
illness to wife or conjugal unhappiness. 


7. Saturn as the Year Lord 


(a) In full strength: Success in litigation, acquisition of new 
house, land or property, gains from the western direction 
(from the “Yavanas”), good health, leadership of fellow-beings. 


(b) Of medium strength : The above mentioned results ‘are obtained 
to an ordinary extent only. There is decrease in earnings, and 
benefit from servants, camels, buffaloes, etc. 


(c} Weak: Failure in all undertakings, vaned problems, fear from 
foes, opposition from friends, spouse, children and relatives, 
and general deprivation. 


The results as described above are fairly general in nature. 
They must be interpreted keeping in mind such varied factors 
as the location of the year lord in the annual chart, the influence 
of other planets on the year lord, the involvement of the year 
lord in the various Tajika yogas, etc. Needless to stress that any 
results issuing forth from the annual chart will be dependent on 
a similar promise in the birth chart. 


CHAPTER YItI 
THE TRI-PATAKI CHAKRA 


On all sides eyes, on all sides face, 
on all sides arms, on all sides feet, 
he, God, the One, creates heaven and earth, 
forging them together with arms and wings. 


‘SVETASVATARA UPANISHAD’ 


The Tri-pataki Chakra (or the Tri-pataki map) consists of a special 
charting of various p/anets as located in the birth chart in relation to 
the ascendant in the annual chart. The planets are progressed by one 
sign every year starting from their position at birth. 

The application and analysis of the Tri-pataki gives a very 
broad overview of the nature of events likely to dominate one 
particular year. While the wedba to any planet or to the lagna 
can be determined by charting the planets on the Tri-pataki, it 
is customary only to consider the various planetary influences on 
the Moon, or sometimes on the ascendant. 


THE TRI-PATAKT CHAKRA 


Three parallel lines are drawn vertically. Across these are drawn 
three parallel lines horizontally. The ends of these lines are 
joined as shown in Fig, VIII-1. On top of the three vertical 
lines, customarily, small flags are drawn. The word Pataka means 
‘a flag’; the: pre-fix Tri means ‘three’, This forms the Tri-pataki 
map. 


Marking the Rashis 


The central flag (marked ‘a’) represents the ascendant in the 
annual chart. The sign rising at the time of Varshapravesha is 


Figure VII-1 


marked here. The remaining signs are marked in order, in an 
anti-clockwise fashion, along the points ‘b, ‘c’, ‘d’, etc. This 
forms the skeleton on which the progressed planets will be 
located. 


The Concept of Vedha 


The word veda means to pierce. On the Tri-pataki map it will 
be noted that three lines converge on each of the twelve points, 
from ‘a to ‘I. For example, we have fines ‘ad’, ‘ag’ and ‘aj’ 
converging at point ‘a. For a planet situated at ‘a’, any planet 
located at points ‘d’, ‘g’ or ‘] will cause the vedba. Similarly, 
for a planet located at point ‘b’, planets located at points ‘c’, 
‘f’ or ‘? will cause the vedha. Thus, the vedha is caused by planets 
situated at the other ends of the three lines converging at any 
one point. It is natural to assume that a planet is also under 
the influence of another planet located on the same point in the 
‘Tri-pataki chakra; for all practical purposes this may also be 
considered as the vedha. 


Locating the Planets on the Tri-Pataki 


For this purpose, it is the current year (i.e., completed years + 1) 
which is taken into account. In the Example Chart, the current 
year (for which the annual chart has been cast) is forty-one. 


88 


(i) Locating the Moon. Divide the current year by nine and find 
the remainder. For an annual chart cast for the forty-first 
year, dividing forty-one by nine gives us a remainder of 
five. The Moon is located in the sign falling in the fifth house 
from its location in the birth chart. In our native’s birth chart, 
the Moon is in Leo. Fifth from the sign Leo is Sagittarius. 
So, the Moon is located in Sagittarius in the Tri-pataki 
chart. 


Note: If the remainder in a particular case happens to be zero, 
it is to be taken as nine, and the Moon located in the ninth 
house from its natal position. 


(ii) Location of the Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn. 
Divide the current year by four and find the remainder. 
Locate the above mentioned planets on the Tri-pataki by 
counting from their position in the natal chart upto as many 
houses as indicated by the remainder. In our example, 
dividing forty-one by four, we get a remainder of one. So, 
the above mentioned planets are placed in the first house 
counted from their natal position. That is, they are located 
on the same signs on the Tri-pataki map as they occupy 
in the natal chart. 


Note : If the remainder after the division is zero, it is to be taken 
as four, and the planets located in the fourth sign from their 
natal position, 


(iii) Location of Mars, Rabu and Ketu. Divide the current year 
by six. The remainder determines the location of Mars, 
Rahu and Ketu in relation to their natal positions. For 
Rahu and Ketu, the location is decided by counting in 
the reverse order. Here, a ‘zero’ remainder means six. 
In the Example Chart, forty-one divided by six yields 
five as the remainder. Thus, the positions of Mars, 
Rahu and Ketu are marked in the rashis falling in the 
fifth from their natal positions. The positions of Rahu 
and Ketu, as mentioned above, are counted in the 
reverse order. Fig. VIII-2 shows the Tri-pataki chart for 
the forty-first year of our native according to the 
method described above. 


89 


Mars 6 Ketu 
Sun, Mercury 
Jupiter, Venus 
Rahu ZS 


Saturn 


Figure VIET-2 


Interpreting the Tri-pataki 


Astrologers generally consider the vedha of the Moon in the Tri- 
pataki chakra, The vedha to the lagna, however, may also be 
suitably considered. When malefics cause the vedha to the Moon 
(or lagna), there are troubles and tensions during the year. When 
the benefics do so, the results are beneficial and desirable, Both 
malefics and benefics causing the vedha yield mixed results. 
When one malefic afflicts the Moon (or the lagna), the year 
produces troubles and obstacles of various sorts. When two 
malefics do so, there is likelihood of physical ailment. When three 
or more malefics cause the vedha, there may be intense trouble 
or even death. Benefic association or influence reduces the 
affliction correspondingly. 

The following results have been ascribed to the vedha of the 
Moon by different planets. 


1. By the Sun: High fever, bilious ailments, disappointments, 
mental tension. 


2. By Mars: Fear from enemies, quarrels, blood disorders 
(including septicaemia, etc.), shortness of temper, pain and 
injury to the body, punishment, proneness to accidents. 


3. By Mercury: Sharp intellect, association with good people, 


90 


gain of wealth, acquisition of education, differences with near 
and dear ones, fear from foes. 


4. By Jupiter: Elevation of status, association with the virtuous 
and the religious, pilgrimages, mental peace, inclination 
toward pious deeds, gain in wealth, child birth, and general 
prosperity. 

5. By Venus: Fulfilment of desires, acquisition of education, 
dominance over opponents, sensual pleasures, increase in 
income, fear from water, windy complaints. 


6. By Saturn: Association with the mean and the low, 
inclination toward lowly deeds, physical ailments, windy 
complaints, loss of stature. 


7. By Rabu: Severe illness, loss of honour and wealth, phobias, 
and generally undesirable results. 


8. By Ketu: Itt health, poor digestion, depression. 


The results of the vedha of the Moon or lagna as described 
above are too generalised and must be applied with great 
circumspection. They tend to occur during the dasha or the 
antardasha of planets causing the vedha. It is perhaps important 
to bear in mind not only the benefic or malefic nature of the 
planets but also their lordship, strength and signification. 

In the Example Chart, the Moon has the vedha caused by 
an exalted Mars which is also the lagna lord of the annual chart. 
The lagna has the vedha caused by the Sun in Leo, its own sign, 
along with the three benefics Mercury, Jupiter and Venus. The 
native became the prime minister of India in his forty-first year 
of life, and, during this year, displayed a dignity and grace no 
less than the most distinguished leaders of his time in the world. 

Tt will be interesting to have a look at the Tri-pataki chart 
cast for the forty-seventh year (extending from August 1990 to 
August 1991) of the same native, with Gemini rising in the lagna 
in the annual chart (See Fig. VIII-3). The ascendant and the 
Moon are both under the vedha caused by Rahu and Ketu, 
without any relief from benefics. The native met a violent end 
during this year. It cannot, however, be stressed too strongly here 
that such an analysis should always be correlated with a proper 


91 


4 3 2 
Saturn 5 1 
Moon 
ae 6 12 Rahu 
Sun, Mercury 
Jupiter, Venus : i 
8 9 10 Mars 


Figure VIif-3 


analysis of the annual chart in the light of several other principles 
being described here, as also with the promise indicated in the 
natal chart. 


Note: Some authorities, while locating the planets on the Tni- 
pataki, do not differentiate between Mars, Rahu and Ketu on 
the one hand, and the remaining planets (except the Moon) on 
the other. They divide the current year by four and locate all the 
planets (except the Moon for which the division is done by nine) 
depending upon the remainder obtained thus. Figs. VIH-4 & 5 


Moon 9 8 7 


Ketu 6 Mars 


Sun, Mercury 
Jupiter, Venus 


a Rahu 


Sarurn 
Figure VUI-¢4 


92 


Rabu 
4 3 2 
Saturn § 1 
Moon 6 12 
Sun, Mercury 7 TI 
Jupiter, Venus 
8 9 10 
Mars 
Ketu 
Figure ViU-$ 


show the Tri-pataki charts cast for the above native for the same 
years (forty-first and forty-seventh) by this latter technique. 

We have not found the results obtained from the Tri-pataki 
to be very consistent.’ Late Shri Hardev Sharma Trivedi, the 
erstwhile famous astrologer of north India well known for the 
publication of his celebrated Hindi almanac, the Vishwa Vijaya 
Panchanga, for almost the last fifty years, agrees with us. He, 
however, preferred to locate the various planets on the same signs 
in the Tri-pataki map in which they fell in the annual chart. He 
would thus not indulge in the progression of planets from their 
natal position for the purpose of the Tri-pataki. He insisted that 
major predictions should not be based on an analysis of the Tri- 
pataki alone. 


1. A lot of research needs to be done on the Tri-Paraki. 


2. In the month of March 1993, we, a group of astrologers, had a long discussion 
with Late Shri Hardev Sharma Trivedi on his technique of analysing the annual 
horoscope. His mast successful predictions in mundane astrology have been 
based on the annual horoscope of the Indian independence. 


CHAPTER 1X 


PLANETS IN 
DIFFERENT HOUSES 


She carries in her lap the foolish and also the wise. 
She bears the death of the wicked as well as the good. 
She lives in friendly collaboration with the boar, 
offering herself as the sanctuary to the wild pig. 


ATHARVA VEDA’ 


Planets by their location in different houses produce certain 
results. These results are very generalised since they get vastly 
modified by the nature of the lagna as also by the sign in which 
the planets are located. However, these results give important 
clues to the analysis of a chart. They are briefly described below. 


THE SUN 

The Sun is particularly favourable when located in houses 3, 6, 
10 and 11. 

1. Lagna: Situated alone in the lagna, or when aspected or 


associated with malefics, it leads to physical ailment, fever, 
headache, excessive expenditure, illness to wife, laziness, 
travel, proneness to anger, and trouble from enemies. 
Influence of benefics reduces the suffering. 


Second House: Alone, or under the influence of malefics, 
it leads to excessive expenditure, strife with family members, 
financial troubles, diseases of the throat or eye, and varied 
disappointments. When under benefic influence, it leads to 
acquisition of wealth. 


Third House: Increase in enthusiasm and valour, gain of 
name and fame, dominance over opponents, favours from 


94 


10. 


11. 


superiors, and good health. Brothers suffer when the Sun here 
is under malefic influence. 


. Fourth House : Suffering to mother, crops and cattle, fear 


of injury from quadrupeds and vehicles, strife with the 
higher-ups, suffering in journey, and proneness to ill health. 


. Fifth House : Strife with children and wife, loss of money, 


excessive expenditure, illness to children, fear from superiors, 
mental anguish, and abdominal discomfort. Benefic influences 


(by association or aspect) reduce the suffering and may lead 
to child birth. 


. Sixth House : Destruction of enemies, harmony with friends 


and near ones, success in litigation, gains in business, 
adversity to maternal uncles, and eye trouble. 


. Seventh House : Physical ailment, eye trouble, loss of wealth, 


uf health to wife, fear from foes and thieves while in travel. 
Benefic influences ensure professional elevation and general 
comforts. 


. Eighth House : Opposition from near and dear ones, strife 


at home, physical illness with much suffering, abdominal and 
eye disease, perineal diseases’, loss of dignity, illness to wife 
and children, loss of wealth, fear from fire, and any sudden 
calamity. 


. Ninth House: If well-aspected or well-associated, it leads 


to virtuous deeds, benefic journey, comforts from wife, 
children and friends, and favours from the superiors. When 
under malefic influence, fall in earnings, disappointments, 
suffering in travel, strife with brothers and sisters. 


‘Tenth House : Royal favours, professional elevation, gain in 
wealth, general progress, comforts in respect of quadrupeds 
and vehicles, dominance over opponents, wise decisions, 
success in ventures, and fulfilment of desires. 


Eleventh House: Income from business and other 
undertakings, rise in status, inflow of wealth, harmony with 
friends and near and dear ones, acquisition of vehicles, 


1.. Diseases like piles, fistulae, fissures, etc., occurring around the anus. 


95 


inclination towards virtuous deeds. If under malefic influences, 
it indicates ill health to children. 


12. ‘Twelfth House : Eye disease, headache, abdominal discomfort, 


disappointments, illness to wife, excessive expenditure on 
treatment of illness, suffering through false allegation. If 
benefics influence this Sun, it indicates spending on virtuous/ 
religious pursuits. 


THE MOON 


1. 


MN 


Lagna: In Aries, Taurus or Cancer, it ensures increased 
income, good health, favours from women and generally good 
results. In any other sign, especially if afflicted, it leads to 
loss of wealth, opposition from superiors, disappointments, 
eye disease, disease in the oral cavity, cough and asthmatic 
illness. 


Second House: Acquisition of wealth, gains in business, 
association with good people, favours from superiors, general 
harmony amongst the family members. If afflicted, it leads 
to eye disease. 


Third House: Good for brothers and sisters, inclination 
toward virtuous and religious deeds, fulfilment of some secret 
desire, and favours from women. Afflicted Moon is adverse 
for brothers and sisters, and inclines the native toward 
unscrupulous deeds. 


Fourth House : Comforts from wife, friends and relatives, 
gain in professional status, benefit from agriculture and cattle, 
acquisition of vehicle, and gains from dealing it white-coloured 
objects. When afflicted by Rahu or Ketu, it leads to 
abdominal pain, and change of residence. 


Fifth House : Comfort from children and wife, birth of a 
daughter,’ gain of name and fame, acquisition of wealth, 
improved thinking, and inclination toward learning. When 
this Moon is afflicted, it is adverse for progeny and causes 
distortion of thinking. 


In natal horescopy, the Moon in the fifth house generally produces daughters 
as the first two issues. 


96 


10. 


11. 


12. 


. Sixth House : Fear from foes, loss of favour from superiors, 


false allegations with consequent loss of mental peace, chest 
infections, cough, eye disease, and fear from water, undesired 
journey, and Joss of money. 


. Seventh House: Favours from women, eamings from 


business and travel, elevation in profession, gain from dealings 
in white-coloured objects. If afflicted, it leads to illness of 
the native and his wife. 


. Eighth House: Loss of earnings and wealth, inclination 


toward unscrupulous deeds, grave illness and suffering, fear 
of drowning, dominance by opponents, mental anguish, 
abdominal pain, eye disease, coughs and cold, etc. Benefic 
influences on the Moon provide some relief. 


. Ninth House: Indulgence in virtuous deeds, harmonious 


relations with friends and relatives, comfort from wife and 
children, fulfilment of desires, gain of wealth through 
business and travel, elevation in profession. Affliction to the 
Moon in the ninth house causes obstacles to the fulfilment 
of one’s undertakings. 


Tenth House : Favours from superiors, professional elevation, 
dominance over opponents, good health, domestic harmony, 
fulfilment of desires, and access to comforts and wealth. 


Eleventh House: Gains from dealing in clothes and 
white-coloured objects, rise in professional status, domestic 
harmony, and dominance over enemies and opponents. 


Twelfth House : Eye disease, coughs and colds, increase of 
opponents, quarrels, mental anguish, excessive expenditure in 
the pursuit of good and religious deeds, and general laziness. 
The expenditure generally exceeds the income. 


MARS 
Particularly Favourable in houses 3, 6, 10 and 11 (like the Sun). 


af 


Lagna: Fear from fire, weapons and thieves, loss of money, 
blood disorders, fever, headache, abdominal pain, mental 
anguish, easy excitability, illness to wife, and proneness to 
accident and injury (surgical operation!), 


97 


2. Second House : Eye disease, loss of wealth, fear from fire, 
enemies and the ruler, disappointments, illness to wife, losses 
in business, and strife with family members. 


3. Third House: Enhancement of status, acquisition of land, 
vehicles and wealth, dominance over opponents, favours from 
the ruler, fulfilment of desires, success through personal 
efforts, success in litigation. When afflicted, it causes harm 
to brothers. 


4. Fourth House: Separation from friends and relatives, 
illness to mother, injury from weapon or fire, loss of 
cattle or vehicles, losses from land, lack of mental peace, 
and troublesome journey. The native’s house may be burnt 
by fire. 


5. Fifth House: Adverse for children and wife, abdominal and 
chest disease, loss of status, disappointments, loss of mental 
poise, injury from fire or weapon. 


6. Sixth House: Annihilation of opponents, success in 
litigation, elevation of status, favours from the government, 
acquisition of wealth and vehicles, favours from women, and 
varied comforts. 


é 


Seventh House: [ness to wife, domestic strife, physical 
illness to the native, mental anguish, suffering in travel, 
association with unscrupulous individuals, breakdown of a 
miarital alliance. 


8. Eighth House : Serious illness, blood disorders, injury fromm 
weapons or accidents, surgical operation,’ Joss of wealth, 
domestic strife, and secret worries. 


9.‘Ninth House: Loss of wealth, excessive expenditure, 
disappointments, frequent travel, strife with siblings, proneness 
to selfishness, an unwelcome transfer in job or a foreign 
journey. 


10. Tenth House: Governmental favours, promotion in 
profession, gain in wealth and health, dominance over 


3. Ketu in the eighth house acts in a similar way. 


98 


11. 


12. 


opponents, and success in undertakings. The native may 
become a centre of controversy. 


Eleventh House: Good income, professional elevation, 
enhancement of dignity, gains in business, acquisition of 
comforts, vehicles and new dresses, and satisfaction from 
children, wife and friends. 


Twelfth House: Loss of wealth and health, illness to 
children, fear from the ruler, eye disease, disappointments, 
injury from fire or accidents. Benefic influences on Mars 
mitigate the evil to a large extent. 


MERCURY 
Bad in houses 6, 8 and 12. 


1. 


Lagna: Good health, earnings through the application of 
intelligence, commencement of a new business, enhancement 
of status, mental happiness, comforts to wife and children, 
and dominance over enemies, If Mercury is afflicted, it leads 
to domestic strife, illness and lack of comforts. 


. Second House: Domestic harmony, increase in income 


and wealth, gain of name and fame, dominance over 
opponents. Affliction here leads to domestic strife and loss 
of money. 


. Third House : Dominance over opponents through personal 


courage, peace of mind, comforts from wife and children, gain 
in wealth and fame, income through business, and inclination 
toward frequent travel. 


. Fourth House : Favours from superiors, domestic harmony, 


acquisition of vehicles, land or cattle, comfort to mother, 
harmony with the near and dear ones. If afflicted, it leads 
to illness of mother, and change of residence. 


. Fifth House: Earnings through the application of one’s 


intelligence, comforts to and from children, favours from 
superiors, fulfilment of desires, acquisition of name and 
fame, higher studies, success in examination, and general 
comforts. 


10. 


11. 


2. 


99 


. Sixth House: Increase in enemies, wasteful expenditure, 


quarrels, mental anguish, trouble from women, and generally 
ilt health. 


. Seventh House: Comfort from wife, gain of status, 


comfortable journey, benefit from business transactions, and 
generally favourable results. 


. Eighth House: Eye disease, fever, chest infections, loss of 


wealth, excessive expenditure, and trouble from opponents. 
When under benefit influence, it gives excessively benefit 
results. 


. Ninth House: Fulfilment of desires, inclination toward 


religious deeds, good fortune, elevation of professional status, 
gain in wealth, birth of a child, success in undertakings, and 
profitable journey. 


Tenth House: Professional elevation, gain of wealth and 
vehicles, enhanced dignity, profit from business, and 
inclination toward virtuous deeds. If afflicted, it causes strife 
with superiors. 


Eleventh House: Gain of health, wealth and valour, 
fulfilment of desires, enhancement of status and dignity, 
acquisition of wealth through business and travel. 


Twelfth House: Physical ailment, mental anguish, eye 
disease, excessive expenditure, imcrease in opponents, 
governmental disfavour. Under benefic influence, it leads to 
expenditure in religious and virtuous pursuits. 


JUPITER 
Bad in houses 6, 8 and 12. 


RE 


Lagna: Generally favourable in respect of wife, children, 
vehicles and wealth, elevation of status (promotion in job!), 
gains from business, profitable association with friends, and 
fulfilment of desires. When afflicted, it causes ill health and 
worry about profession. 


Second House: Good income, governmental favours, 
elevation of status, comforts form wife and children, 


400 


10. 


11, 


pilgrimage, acquisition of vehicles, earnings from business 
and. travel. 


Third House: Harmonious association with friends and 
relatives, gains from business, inclination toward virtuous 
deeds, gainful travel, and favourable for the siblings.* A 
sudden tragedy or loss of money may also occur. 


Fourth House: Domestic harmony, good income, access to 
comforts and vehicles, governmental favours, monetary gains 
from lands and business. Good for mother. If afflicted, it leads 
to illness to mother and change of residence. 


Fifth House: Acquisition of knowledge and learning, gain 
in wealth and health, increased fame and dignity, dominance 
over opponents, favourable for progeny, and birth of a child. 


Sixth House: Frequent quarrels, increase in enemies, 
disappointments, mental anguish, eye disease, abdominal 
discomfort, general frailty, and disinclination towards religious 
pursuits. 


Seventh House: Profitable journey, comfort from wife, 
sudden happiness, acquisition of vehicles, professional 
elevation, gain of wealth, name and fame, and development 
of new and fruitful associations. 


Eighth House : Loss of health and wealth, injury or accident, 
fever, eye disease, losses in business and travel, separation 
from the near and dear ones, and general disappointments. 
On the positive side, tt may lead to monetary gains to wife. 


Ninth House : Pilgrimage, virtuous deeds, gain of wealth and 
wisdom, acquisition of land and vehicles, association with 
near and dear ones, profitable journey, and auspicious events. 


Tenth House ; Professional elevation, governmental favours, 
dominance over opponents, increased income, physical 
comforts, and auspicious events. 


Eleventh House : Freedom from disease, comforts from wife, 
children and friends, acquisition of vehicles and wealth, 


4. Affection for the siblings may increase as a result of their dire needs. 


12, 


101 


professional elevation, bestowal of honours and awards, 
inclination toward virtuous deeds, dominance over opponents, 
and fulfilment of desires. 


‘Twelfth House : Excessive expenditure, strife with friends, 
disfavour from the ruler, fear from foes, fruitless journey, and 
physical illness. Also, expenditure on good deeds, like 
marriage of a child. 


VENUS 
Bad in houses 6, 8 and 12. 


L 


Lagna: Association with women, imcrease in income, 
4 , 

fulfilment of desires, indulgence: in luxuries, elevation of 
professional status, and domestic harmony. 


Second House : Fulfilment of desires, benefit from friends, 
excessive wealth, success in ventures, association with women, 
and acquisition of vehicles. 


Third House: Profitable association with friends and 
siblings, inclination to undertake journey, good health, gain 
of money, success in undertakings, association with women, 
and domestic harmony. 


Fourth House : Acquisition of vehicles and wealth, gain from 
lands and business, favours from government, comfort to 
mother, and general material comforts. It may also cause 
wasteful expenditure, dissociation from near and dear ones, 
and instability of temper. In the case of a government servant, 
a posting where an office car is available to the native! 


Fifth House: Gain of wealth without effort, much comfort 
to wife and children, fulfilment of desires, acquisition of 
knowledge, gain of name and fame, and dominance over 
enemies. It also indicates travel. 


Sixth House : Fear from foes, quarrels, instability of temper, 
loss of wealth, secret worries, and physical illness. Also, 
separation from wife, or a divorce. 


Seventh House: Overindulgence in sensual pursuits, 
marriage, gain of wealth, profit from business, success in 


102 


undertakings, earnings from travel, fulfilment of desires, and 
acquisition of vehicles. 


8. Eighth House: Hlness and physical suffering, affliction to 
wife and children, excessive expenditure, losses in business 
and travel, eye disease, and fear from water. 


9. Ninth House: Elevation of professional status, gain of 
wealth, good health, benefit from journey, comforts from wife 
and children, success in undertakings, and inclination toward 
good deeds. Good for work connected with television. 


10. Tenth House: Professional elevation (promotion in job)), 
domestic happiness, gain of wealth and dignity, dominance 
over opponents, acquisition of land, house, vehicles and other 
material comforts, and gainful journey. Good for art, culture, 


television. 


11. Eleventh House: Earnings from business, gainful journey, 
association with friends, enhancement of status and dignity, 
governmental favours, comfort from wife and children, Gains 
from handicrafts, handloom, clothes, musical performances. 


12. Twelfth House : Excessive expenditure, mental anguish, fear 
from foes, disfavour from the ruler, eye disease, and travel. 
When under benefic influence, it causes expenditure on 
religious and profitable undertakings, as also on happy events 
like marriage. 


SATURN 
Good in houses 3, 6 and il. 


1. Lagna: Laziness, ill health, fear from enemies, sudden 
calamity, disfavour from those in authority, association with 
the wicked and the low, illness to wife, and disappointments. 
When the ascendant coincides with Satum's own sign 
(Capricom, Aquarius) or with its exaltation sign (Libra), 
beneficial results may accrue. 


2. Second House : Domestic strife, disease of eye, abdomen or 
oral cavity, false allegation, physical injury, loss of wealth, poor 
earnings, opposition from near and dear ones, and unwelcome 
travel. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


103 


Third House: Dominance over opponents, excessive 
? 

enthusiasm, success in undertakings, gain in wealth, 

governmental favours, and strife with siblings. 


Fourth House ; I]ness to mother, abdominal pain, fear from 
opponents and thieves, tensions in respect of land and vehicle, 
mental anguish, and travel. 


Fifth House: Illness to wife, children and_ friends, 
interruption in education, distorted thinking, mental 
depression, loss of wealth, and abdominal ailments. 


Sixth House : Good health, increased wealth, annihilation of 
enemics, success in litigation, relief from ailments, professional 
rise, gain in wealth, and fulfilment of desires. 


Seventh House : I]ness to wife, change of place of residence, 
foreign journey, suffering in travel, fear from enemies, false 
allegation, abdominal pain, loss of money, and association 
with other women. 


Eight House : Serious illness (death, if the dasha running 
in the birth chart is adverse), loss of wealth, ill health to wife 
and children, false allegations, separation from near and dear 
ones (an unpleasant transfer!), fall in professional status, 
obstruction to education, and mental anguish. 


Ninth House : Misfortune, loss in business, fall from virtue, 
disappointments, harm to elder brother and to enemies. 


Tenth House : Success only through excessive effort, losses 
in business, fall in professional status, quarrelsome nature, 
travel, change of residence, and domestic strife. When strong 
or exalted, it leads to elevation of status, and profits through 
dealings in metals and dark-coloured objects (like iron and 
steel}. 


Eleventh House: Professional elevation, dominance over 
opponents, good health, excessive earnings, change of 
residence, and illness to children or to elder brother. 


Twelfth House: Loss of earnings, fear from those in 
authority, disease of eye or chest or feet, domestic strife, 
unexpected calamity, and likelihood of travel. 


RAHU 


1e 


10. 


Lagna : Mental anguish, loss of dignity, fear from opponents, 
ill health to wife, excessive expenditure, distorted thinking, 
headache, and eye disease. 


Second House : Loss of wealth, ill health, eye disease, disease 
of the oral cavity, fear from the ruler, losses in business and 
travel, 


Third House : Governmental favours, good health, monetary 
gains, dominance over enemies and opponents, professional 
elevation, and success in undertakings. May prove adverse to 
siblings. 

Fourth House: Ill health to mother, fall from status, 
suffering in travel, strife with friends and relatives, excessive 
expenditure, ill health, and some sudden calamity. 


Fifth House: Intellectual deterioration, mental anguish, 
unfounded fears, loss of money, interruption in studies, and 
pain in abdomen. If under benefic influence, it may lead to 
the birth of a son, gain in wealth, and dominance over 
opponents. 


Sixth House : Good health, loss of enemies, gain in wealth, 
access to vehicles and comforts, and rise in professional status, 


Seventh House: Adverse for wife. Domestic strife, ill 
health, suffering in travel, fear of fire, water or poison, and 
some secret illness. Likelihood of separation from wife, or 
a divorce, 


Eighth House: Varied ailments, disease in private parts of 
the body, abdominal pain, increase of enemies, loss of health 
and wealth, ill health to wife and children, unfounded fears 
and phobias, losses in business and travel. 


Ninth House : Misfortunes, strife with near and dear ones, 
disappointments, fall from status, harm from animals and 
vehicles, travel (including foreign travel), and differences 
with father. 


Tenth House : Loss of earnings, and physical illness. If well- 


associated or well-aspected, it leads to rise in professional 


11. 


12. 


105 


status, increased name and fame, and gainful business and 
travel. 


Eleventh House: Good earnings, good health, gainful 
business and travel, comfort from wife and children, and 
elevation in professional status. 


Twelfth House: Loss of wealth, physical ailment, eye 
disease, fear from the ruler, change of place of residence, fear 
from fire and thieves, and losses in business and travel. 


KETU 


ls 


Lagna : Ili health, loss through thefts, loss of dignity, strife 
with friends and déar ones, fear from -fire or injury, and 
numerous worries. 


Second House : Loss of wealth, wasteful expenditure, disease 
of eye or mouth, disappointments, fruitless travel. 


Third House: Destruction of opponents, gainful business 
and travel, governmental favours, il! health to sibling. 


Fourth House: Il] health to mother, vehicular accident, 
excessive expenditure, disfavour from the ruler, and loss of 
mental poise. 


Fifth House : Loss of wealth, interruption in studies, lack 
of discrimination, iliness to children, some sudden calamity, 
and association with the wicked. 


Sixth House: Loss of enemies, increased wealth, comforts 
from wife, children and vehicles, professional elevation, and 
fulfilment of desires. 


Seventh House : Illness to wife, lower abdominal ailments, 
frequent travel, loss in business, and unfounded worries. 


Eight House : Varied ailments, heart disease, fear of injury, 
fire or theft, loss of money, change of residence, and fear from 
the ruler. 


Ninth House: Opposition from frends, misfortunes, 
inclination toward wicked deeds, failure in undertakings, and 
disease of the upper limbs. 


106 


10. 


11. 


12. 


Tenth House: Fear from the ruler, change in job, loss of 
wealth, illness to mother, change of residence and failure in 
undertakings. 


Eleventh House : Good health, increased wealth, domestic 
comforts, professional elevation, and gains in business and 
travel. It may also encourage one to indulge in black magic 
or cheating. 


Twelfth House: Loss of money, fear from foes, losses in 
business and in travel, eye disease, decline in professional 
status, and much mental suffering. 


HINTS ABOUT INTERPRETATION OF THE ABOVE 
RESULTS 


As 


already indicated, the above mentioned results are too 


generalised, and cannot be applied verbatim. The following points 
must be borne in mind while interpreting the position of planets 
in various houses: 


L 


All good results of a planet get adversely modified when the 
planet producing them is under malefic association or aspect. 


Adverse results, similarly, get favourably modified when the 
planet producing them obtains benefit association or aspect. 


All planets give some or the other benefit by their location 
in the eleventh house, the house of gains. In practice, the 
association of a ‘yoga with the eleventh house or the eleventh 
lord ensures its fructification. 


Planets in the twelfth house, the house of loss, generally 
indicate loss of money. The benefic and malefu influences on 
them only indicate spending in destrable or undesirable pursutts. 


All planets in the eighth house give adverse results, especially 
affecting the health of the individual. The more malefic of 
them indicate more serious affliction. Benefic influences 
mitigate the evil to some extent. 


In general, the natural benefics produce adverse results when 
located in houses 6, 8 and 12. 


107 


7. The natural malefics (Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu) 
produce benefic results in house 3, 6 and 11. In the third 
house, they ensure the exercise of personal grit; in the sixth, 
they destroy opponents; in the eleventh, they ensure inflow 
of wealth through personal effort. The Sun is additionally 
beneficial in the tenth house where it promises a position 
of authority. 


8. The above mentioned results get correspondingly modified 
as the planet in question 1s exalted or debilitated, retrograde 
or direct, combust or otherwise, and whether or not it is 
involved in any of the Tajika yogas. 


CHAPTER X 
THE YOGAS 


United your resolve, united your hearts, 
may your spirits be at one, 

that you may long together dwell 

im unity and concord! 


‘RIG VEDA’ 


The clue to successful predictions on the basis of Varshaphala 
lies in a proper understanding of the Tajika Yogas. Sixteen such 
yogas or planetary configurations are described in the Tajika texts. 
These yogas form as a result of specific disposition or placement 
of planets in relation to each other. Most of these yogas depend 
on the mutual Tajika aspects between planets, and on their special 
orbs of influence. These yogas are as appropriately applicable to 
the Horary chart as they are to the annual chart. The hundreds 
of yogas as employed in the Parashari system are generally not 
considered in the Tajika chart. Equally so, the Tajika yogas do 
not find their use generally in the analysis. of the natal chart. 


Recent Origin 


It may be mentioned here that the sixteen Tajika yogas are a 
relatively later addition to the system of annual horoscopy. The 
various names given to these yogas have been derived from the 
Persian or Arabic languages. It goes to the credit of the Sanskrit 
writers on the Vedic astrology that the apparently alien names 
have been retained as such, and graciously incorporated in the 
Sanskrit verses or dicta on annual horoscopy. Each of these yogas 
will be discussed individually in the narration that follows. The 
original nomenclature will be retained even while an attempt will 


109 


be made to denote these yogas in suitable descriptive terms where 
possible. It will be noted that Rahu and Ketu do not figure in 
the formation of these yoga. 

There is generally a tendency to interpret the available 
astrological dicta in a restricted manner, taking into consideration 
only the literal meaning of the available text. Unless these dicta 
are boldly interpreted, astrology will not be able to keep pace 
with the changing times. So many of the old principles will 
appear to have lost their meaning in the present times unless they 
are seen in the light of modern times. Besides, the available 
principles of astrology mainly serve as guidelines. The extent of 
their utility, application and interpretation have to depend on the 
skill and experience of the individual astrologer. In the pages that 
follow, it will be seen that some liberty has been taken in the 
method of application of such principles, It is hoped that this 
exercise only helps to bring out newer meanings from the 
standard principles. 

Several of the Tajika yogas may be present in any one annual 
chart. The correct analysis of a chart involves a balanced 
interpretation of the various yogas. As has been stressed only too 
often, a proper study of these yogas must only succeed, and not 
precede, a proper analysis of the birth horoscope along with the 
operating dasha and antardasha. Accurate results can only be 
arrived at by studying the birth chart and the annual chart side- 
by-side. 


The Lagnesha and the Karyesha 


These two terms are regularly used while describing most of the 
Tajika yogas. The lagnesha, or the lagna lord, and the karyesha, 
or the significator, indicate two important planets which 
participate in the formation of several of these yogas. The lagna 
lord represents the individual himself. It is understandable that 
the involvement of the lagna lord is essential in order to ensure 
the occurrence of an event to the native. The nature of this event 
is governed by another planet, or significator, which represents an 
event by its being the lord of a particular house. Thus, when the 
lagna lord (lagnesha) establishes some relationship with the lord 
of, say, the fifth house (the significator, or the karyesha, for the 
fifth house}, some event pertaining to one’s progeny (ruled by the 


110 


fifth house) is likely to materialise. Similarly, when the association 
is between the lagna lord and the seventh house lord (the lagnesha 
and the karyesha respectively), the event may pertain to one’s 
spouse (ruled by the seventh house). Thus, what events will take 
place during a given year is generally indicated by the lagnesha 
getting involved with a particular significator or karyesha. 

The above strict application of the terms lagnesha and 
karyesha holds true in case of the “Prashna’ or the Horary chart 
in general. In the annual chart, however, we may extend this 
principle further to widen the scope of application of these yogas. 
Thus, any given house may be treated as a ‘lagna’ and the 
relationship of the lord of this house (the ‘lagnesha’) with another 
lord (the ‘karyesha’) may be studied in order to know about 
the events pertaining to a particular house. For example, a 
relationship or association, through yogas, of the lord of the fifth 
house with that of the twelfth house may indicate some loss (the 
twelfth house!) in respect of one’s progeny (the fifth house!). Or, 
a relationship between the seventh lord and the eleventh lord may 
indicate some gains (the eleventh house!) accruing from wife or 
business partners (the seventh house!). It may also be of relevance 
here to consider the signification of a particular planet, and 
consider its relationship with other planets. Thus, the involvement 
of the Moon in a relationship may indicate events pertaining to 
one’s mother, or that of Mars those pertaining to one’s brother. 
Finally, a further romantic hue to the interpretation of these yogas 
is provided by the actual location in the chart of the various actors 
in the yoga formation. 

The actual interpretation of each of the Tajika yogas may thus 
necessitate the consideration of all of the following factors: 


1. The lordship of the planets over houses. 

2. The natural significatorship of planets. 

3. The houses in which the yoga-producing planets are located. 
4 


The various planetary aspects or associations influencing the 
yoga-producing planets. 


5. The strength of the yoga-forming planets. 


In the classical texts, the terms ‘lagnesha’ and ‘karyesha’ are 
used to convey the strict meaning for the lagna lord and the 


111 


significator. For the sake of descriptive convenience, these terms 
will be retained while defining the various yogas. 


The Example Chart 


The Example Chart already under consideration 1s replete with 
several Tajika yogas and will provide a convenient example for 
reference when the yogas are individually discussed. This chart 
refers to the forty-first year (wef August 20, 1984) of the late 
Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, then the youngest, and the strongest, Prime 
Minister of India. Since this chart will only too frequently be 
referred to in the discussion that follows, it is being reproduced 
here (see Chart X-1). 

It is also appropriate here to refer to the birth chart (Chart 
X-2) of the native and see the promise inherent there, Any 
events will occur only if promised in the birth chart. A look 
at the birth chart reveals that the native runs the Vimshottari 
dasha-antar of Rahu-Jupiter from August 20, 1984 to January 
1, 1987. The year in question, i.e., the forty-first year, starts 
right on August 20, 1984. Rahu in Cancer, according to the 
sage Parashara, is a Raja Yogakaraka (bestower of royal status) 
and must appreciably enhance the status of the individual 
during its dasha. The antardasha lord, Jupiter, is the lord of the 
fifth house in the birth chart, and forms a powerful benefic 
combination in the lagna in association with the lagna lord as 
well as all the remaining natural beneftcs, viz., the Moon, 


(The Example 


chad Venus 
(R} | Mars | Saturo 
Munthal Keru 
Lagna 09°26 Mars 07°42" Venus 21°45 
Sun 03°50' Mercury (R) 18°20" Saturn 17°13' 


Mfaon 09°40' Jupiter (R) 09°38" Rahu 08°55' 


Venus 
Sun 03°49" Mercury 28°33’ Saturn 14°12" 
Moon 17°68" Jupiter 12°10 Rahu 04"09" 


Mercury, and Venus. The eighth house lordship of Jupiter instils 
into this configuration of planets an element of unexpected 
suddenness. No wonder, the native enjoyed an extra-ordinary 
Raja Yoga during this period, and found himself suddenly and 
unexpectedly catapulted to the most prestigious and coveted 
post of the Prime Minister of India. These events must find 
adequate confirmation in the annual chart for the year. 

We shall now take up each of the sixteen Tajika yogas 
individually. 


I. THE IKABALA YOGA 


This is the ‘yoga for good fortune’. 

Definition : This yoga happens when, in an annual chart, all 
the planets are located in the kendras (i.c., houses 1, 4, 7 and 
10) and the panapharas (i.c., houses 2, 5, 8 and 11). 

Results : This yoga relieves numerous afflictions in the annual 
chart. It produces benefit from profession or business, gain in 
status, access to wealth, acquisition of vehicles, general comforts, 
and good luck. 

Comments: As has been already mentioned, Rahu and Ketu 
need not be considered here as well as in any of the remaining 
yogas. The results of this as well as the other yogas can only be 
applied with caution. It is essential to correlate the occurrence 
of this yoga with the dasha-antardasha in the birth chart. Again, 
the various results accruing from the yoga as described include 


113 


gain of wealth, vehicle, status, rise in profession, etc. All these 
results may not occur in the same proportion. A Jot will depend 
on the strength of the Jagna Jord in the annual chart. A weak 
lagna lord generally does not permit the benefits of this yoga 
to manifest fully. In the presence of a strong lagna lord, this 
yoga has the potential to promote the name and fame of a 
person, and to increase his material comforts and possessions. 
When most of the planets are strong in the annual chart, this 
yoga produces excellent results. When the lagna lord and the 
other key planets in the horoscope are weak, the native suffers 
setbacks. 

Another important point is the actual houses where the 
planets are located. If most of the planets are placed in the eighth 
house, the results will not necessarily be favourable. 

The strength of the tenth lord along with that of the lagna 
lord determines the extent to which the native gains in respect 
of his profession and status when this yoga is present. When 
both these lords are strong, the native gains dignity and 
recognition. In the Example Chart, with Scorpio ascendant, all 
the planets, except Saturn, are placed in either the kendras or the 
panapharas. The yoga thus applies partially. However, in the 
Panchavargiya chart, the Vishwa Bala (or the numerical strength) 
of the lagna lord, Mars, is 14:10:00 units (or 14.016 units), and 
that of the lord of the tenth house, the Sun, is 14:20:15 units 
(or 14.337 units). Thus, both the lagna lord and the tenth lord 
are very strong. The Sun also happens to be the Varshesha. This 
explains the remarkable rise that the native experienced during 
this year, 

The above situation may be compared with the annual chart 
cast for the forty-sixth year of the native, commencing on August 
20, 1989 (Chart X-3). All the planets are located in the kendras 
and the panapharas. The Ikabala yoga applies here fully, However, 
it was during this particular year that the native lost the 
premiership of India, and his party was defeated in the general 
elections. 

Note that the lagna lord, Saturn, is relatively weak (V.B. 
7:52:30 units, or 7.875 units) according to the Pancha-vargiya 
Bala. The tenth lord, Mars, is equally weak (V.B. 7:24:15 units/ 
7.404 units). Most of the other planets are also weak The Muntha 


114 


Lagna 23°36" Mars 17°04" Venus . 09°17' 
Sun + 93°49" Mercury 29°35" Saturn (R) 13°52" 
Moen 21°17" Jupiter 10°15’ Rahu 02°06' 


is in the adverse fourth house, with its lord in the most adverse 
eighth; it is thus unhelpful. The Ikabala yoga, however, did give 
him some consolation in that he individually won his election 
and was the ‘leader of opposition’ in the Lok Sabha, the Indian 
‘lower house’, having a rank equivalent to that of a cabinet 
minister. Note that during this year of relative decline, the Sun 
was very strong, happened to be the Varshesha, and had a 
favaourable relationship with the lagna lord. 


il. THE INDUVARA YOGA 


This is the ‘yoga for misfortune’ (literally, “‘Idbara’ means 
‘misfortune’), 

Definition : This yoga happens when ail the planets are located 
in the apoklima houses (i.e., houses 3, 6, 9 and 12). 

Results: This yoga is considered inauspicious. It leads to 
disappointments, fall in status, illness, mental worries, and fear 
from opponents. 

Comments: Planets are considered auspicious when they are 
located in the kendras and panapharas. They are deemed 
inauspicious when located in the apoklimas. It may not be very 
frequent to see an Induvara yoga in full form, with all the planets 
in the apoklimas. In general, when a majority of planets (five or 
more) fall in the apoklimas, with only one or two planets escaping 
into the kendras/panapharas, the Induvara yoga may be said to 
be, at least partially, present. 


115 


In Chart X-4, five planets, viz., the Moon, Mars, Jupiter, 
Venus and Saturn, are located in houses 3, 6 and 12. The 
remaining two planets, viz., the Sun and Mercury, are in the 
eleventh house in the Rahu-Ketu axis. The native, 2 known 
asthmatic, had a severe exacerbation of her symptoms and was 
virtually on her death bed. Of course, she was running an adverse 
dasha/antardasha tn her birth chart also. 


Sun 
ere 
Ketu Lagn 


Mars 
Jupiter 
Chart X-4 Venus 5 
June 23, 1991 & 
Lagna 


(R) 
Moon 
pea | 


Lagna 04°20' Mars 22°41' Venus 22°32’ 
Sun 07°30 Mercury 14°47" Saturn (R) 12°02' 
Moon 24°26" Jupiter 19°07' Rahu 25°16 


HI. THE ITHASALA YOGA 


This, literally ‘the yoga of intermixing’, is the most important of 
the Tajika yogas. It signifies an exercise of mutual influence 
between the planets participating in the formation of this yoga. 
Also called as the ‘Muthsil’ yoga, it provides the key to the 
understanding of several other yogas that follow. In this yoga, a 
faster-moving planet transmits its ‘radiance’ or strength to a 
slower-moving planet. In the process, both the planets share the 
benefit. The yoga necessarily involves two planets for its 
formation. The Ithasala yoga is generally considered to be a 
beneficial yoga. In practice, however, it may not always be 
beneficial. The beneficence or otherwise of this yoga depends 
largely on the house ownership of the involved planets, as also on 
their inherent nature or on their significatorship. The presence of 
this yoga signifies the fulfilment of some event. 

The Ithasala yoga is technically described to be forming 
between the lagnesha and the karyesha, i.e., the lagna lord and 


116 


the significator. As has already been discussed, these terms need 
not be applied strictly, and some flexibility in their application 
is necessary in order to permit an extended interpretation. The 
reason for retaining these terms while defining the various yogas 
has already been referred to. 

The results of the Ithasala may be analysed thus. Let us 
assume that the lagna lord and the lord of the fourth house 
ate involved in an Ithasala yoga. This lord of the fourth house 
becomes the karyesha or the significator. The fourth house 
represents mother, home comforts, vehicles, etc. The lord of the 
fourth house thus becomes the significator of what the fourth 
house stands for. An Ithasala between the lagnesha and the 
fourth lord will favourably influence the areas represented by 
the fourth house in general. The exact analysis will involve, as 
already suggested, a consideration of the houses in which the 
lagna lord and the significator are located, and also the other 
planetary influences on the lagnesha/karyesha through association 
or aspect. 


The Essentials of an Ithasala Yoga 


The following basic information must be assimilated before 
understanding the formation of an Ithasala yoga. 

1. The Relative Motion of Planets: As has already been 
indicated, in an Ithasala yoga, a fast-moving planet transmits 
its influence to a slow-mover. Different planets have their 
different velocities. The Moon, for example, moves the fastest 
of all while Saturn happens to be the slowest. If a slow-moving 
planet is ahead of a fast-moving planet, the latter is potentially 
capable of approaching, and finally overtaking, the former. This 
would permit a mutual interaction which is the essence of an 
Ithasala. A slow-moving planet behind a fast-moving one has 
no chance of overtaking the latter. Thus, an Ithasala, which 
literally means an ‘intermingling’, is only possible between two 
planets when the slower-moving of the two is ahead of the 
faster-moving one. 

What is meant by ‘ahead’ and ‘behind’? A planet is said to 
be ‘ahead of” or ‘behind’ another planet depending on its degrees 
of longitude in a given sign. How far a planet is advanced in 
a giving sign is decided by taking into account only the degrees 


dif 


of longitude after deleting the completed rashis, In the Example 
Chart, for instance, the longitude of the Sun is 123°50’, while 
that of the Moon is 39°40'. Reduced into signs, the longitudes 
of the two will be 4°3°50' and 1°9°40’ respectively. After deleting 
the completed signs {4 in case of the Sun and 1 in case of the 
Moon), we get 3°50' for the Sun and 9°40’ for the Moon. Thus 
the Moon, at greater number of degrees in a sign, is ahead of 
the Sun. 

The planets Moon Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, and 
Saturn are considered to be progressively slower in motion in this 
order, with Saturn being the slowest of all. In the instance quoted 
above, the relatively slower Sun is behind the faster-moving Moon 
and thus has no chance of joining, or overtaking, the Moon. An 
Ithasala yoga will thus not be possible between the two. 

2. Mutual Aspect: Along with the pre-requisite of a 
fast-moving planet being behind the slow-moving planet, the 
other requirement is that of a mutual aspect berween the 
participants in an Ithasala yoga. Planets not aspecting each other 
generally do not constitute an Ithasala yoga. The nature of mutual 
aspect (friendly or inimical) does not affect the existence of an Ithasala 
yoga though it may influence tt qualitatively. 

3. The Orbs of Influence: Each planet has been assigned a 
particular orb over which it exerts its influence. This orb extends 
on either side of a planet {i.e., both ahead and behind) for a 
specific number of degrees. This orb of influence ts called the 
Deeptamsha (literally, ‘orb of radiance’). Beyond its individual orb 
or Deeptamsha, the planet loses its influence. An Ithasala yoga 
materialises only when planets fall within the orbs of each other. 
The Deeptamsha values of various planets have been shown in 
Table X-1. 

Thus, the Sun exerts its influence for 15 degrees on either 
side of itself; the Moon does so for 12 degrees, and so on. 

4. Application of the Deeptamsha Range : When the orbs of two 
planets come in contact with cach other, a mutual influence comes 
into existence. The closer the two planets are degree-wise, the 
greater this influence on each other. The Ithasala yoga, however, 
does not commence when the outer orbs of the two planets meet. 
For Ithasala to occur, a mean of the individual Deeptamshas of 
the two planets is to be considered. 


Table X-1 
Deeptamshas of Planets (in degrees) 
Planets Sun Mon Mar Mer Jup Ven Sat 


Deeptamshas 15 12 8 7 9 7 9 


Let us refer to the Example Chart for clarification. Here, 
Mars, the lagna lord, is at 7°42' in the lagna itself. The Sun, 
the lord of the tenth house, is at 3°50 in the tenth house. The 
Sun is the faster of the two and is behind Mars when we 
consider the degrees of these two planets in their respective 
houses. These two (the Sun and Mars) are in a mutual.(though 
hostile) aspect. As already stated, the presence of a mutual 
aspect is of essence here and not the nature of the aspect. Thus 
there is a possibility of an Ithasala yoga forming between the 
Sun and Mars, 

Now we consider the Deeptamshas of the Sun (15°) and 
Mars (8°). The mean of the two values (i.c., 15 + 8, divided 
by 2) comes to be 11.5°. Mars has to be within 11.5” from the 
Sun to have an Ithasala with the Sun. Here, Mars is 3°52' 
(Mars-Sun, or 7°42' - 3°50' = 3°52') ahead of the Sun. The two 
are thus located well within their Deeptamsha range. They are, 
therefore, in Ithasala. Thus, for the purpose of the Ithasala yoga, 
the term Deeptamsha range means a mean of the individual 
Deeptamshas of the two planets participating in an Ithasala. 
An Ithasala between the lagna lord and the lord of the tenth 
house is highly desirable, and indicates rise in one’s profession 
and favours from the government.’ The yoga is further 
beneficial since it involves houses one and ten (i.e., the planets 
forming it are not only the lords of the first and the tenth 
houses, they are also located in these houses). The closer the 
two participants are in an Ithasala yoga, the more intense are 
the results. In addition, the results also depend on the individual 
strength of the planets according to the Pancha-vargiya Bala. 
Weak planets causing an Ithasala yoga can only produce 
ordinary results. 


1. In Parashari astrology, the conjunction of the lagna lord and the tenth lord in 
the lagna or the 10th house is a combination for great fame. 


119 


Types of Ithasala Yoga 


Three types of Ithasala yoga are described. 

1. The Vartamana Ithasala (or ‘the Ithasala-in-operation’). 
When the term Ithasala is applied, it is generally the Vartamana 
Ithasala that is meant. The example of the Ithasala yoga clarified 
above in relation to the Deeptamsha range is an example of the 
Vartamana Ithasala only. This yoga, as already clarified, is said 
to occur between two planets subject to the following conditions: 


G1) Mutual aspect between the lagnesha and the karyesha (i.e., 
the participants in the yoga); 


(ii) The fast-moving planct is at lesser number of degrees of 
longitude (after excluding the completed signs) than the 
slow-moving planet; 


(iii) The two planets fall within their Deeptamsha range (i.c., half 
of the sum of their individual Deeptamshas). 


The Rashi-Anta Muthsil (or the Ithasala involving a planet at 
the end of a sign): The Rashi-Anta (or Rashyanta) is the end of 
a sign or rashi. A planet located at 29° or more in a rashi is 
considered to be in the Rashyanta. A Planet in Rashyanta extends 
its influence to the next house also. The Rashyanta Ithasala is 
a type of Vartamana Ithasala where the two planets are not in 
Ithasala according to the definition of Ithasala as given above, 
because the faster-moving planet is at Rashyanta, and when it 
enters the next house it would immediately establish Ithasala with 
the slow-moving planet. 

In Chart X-5, the Moon is in Rashyanta. Being faster than 
both Mercury and Venus, and also being far advanced compared 
to both of them, it does not establish Ithasala with either of them. 
Being in Rashyanta, however, it also functions from the beginning 
of the next house, from which position it will be behind both 
Mercury and Venus, still maintaining mutual aspects with them, 
and falling within the Deeptamsha ranges of both Mercury and 
Venus. This is an example of Rashyanta Muthsil. Here, the Moon 
being the 10th lord operating from the eighth house and 
establishing an Ithasala with the eighth lord Venus indicates an 
obstruction or interruption to the native’s Karma or function. 
Mercury as lord of the twelfth house in this chart, is the eighth 


120 


lord in the birth chart and, therefore, none too good to associate 
with for the Moon. Mercury and Jupiter form another Ithasala 
of the Vartamana type as described above. Incidentally, the Moon 
and Mars falling on the same degree also form a type of Ithasala 
soon to be described. Mars here is also on Rashyanta. Mars does 
not establish a Rashyanta yoga with either Mercury or Venus, 
since being slower than both of them it does not qualify for 
Ithasala. Besides, considering it to be operating from the next 
house, ie., the fourth, it loses aspect on Mercury located in the 
fifth house. 

2. The Poorna Ithasala (or ‘the perfect’ Ithasala). This yoga is 
subject to the following conditions: : 


(i) Mutual aspect between the lagnesha and the karyesha (or the 
two participants). 


(ii) The fast-moving planet is behind the slow-moving planet, 
but within one degree. 


In the example quoted above (Chart X-5), the Moon and 
Mars are in Poorna Ithasala. The Poorna Ithasala may be said 
to exist, in practice, even if the slow-moving planet has lagged 
behind the fast-moving one but is still within one degree from 
the fast-mover. However, as the fast-moving planet separates 
from the slow-moving one, the intensity of the yoga rapidly 


j | ten| fae 
thes Chare X-5 


March 2, 1990 


Lagna 2°2730" Mars 29°37' Venus 05°32! 
Sun 18°05' Mercury 04°30" Saturn 23°32’ 
Moon 29°17" Jupiter 07°08" Rahu 22°30" 


121 


declines till it comes to naught as the two separate by more than 
one degree, yielding place to an adverse yoga to be described later. 
Chart X-6 needs to be considered in greater details: 


(i) The Jagna lord Mercury is in Vartamana Ithasala with the 
eighth lord Mars in the fourth house. In the birth chart, 
Mars is the lagna lord and Mercury the eighth lord. This 
does not augur well for the health of the native. He is a 
known case of heart disease, 


(ii) There is a Poorna Ithasala between Mars, the etghth lord 
(inheritance), and Venus, the second lord (wealth) involving 
houses two and four (land, house, vehicle). The lagna lord 
in the fourth house also establishes Ithasala with the fourth 
lord, Jupiter, in the twelfth house (distant land), and with 
the second lord, Venus, in the second house. The native had 
the opportunity to derive benefit from inherited wealth 
{both land and money) long lying in a far off place, and 
long forgotten. He also acquired a house in Delhi. 


(iii) Ithasala between Jupiter (the fourth ford, signifying 
vehicles) and Venus (the Karaka or significator for vehicles} 
involving houses two and twelve, along with their individual 
Ithasala with the lagna lord situated in the fourth house 
ensured the acquisition of a vehicle from the money he 
inherited. 


sa] fe SKS 
e 


7 Chart X-6 hy 
Dec. 17, 1991 
Saturn Jupiter 


Ma 
se | vem tm Via 


Lagna 24°02' 13°59" Venus 18°34 
Sun 00°37' an 14°24' Saturn 10°29 
Moon 29°32" Jupiter 20°33' Rahu 16°20 


122 


(iv) The Moon at 29°32' is in Rashyanta. Being a fast-moving 
planet far advanced in a sign, it cannot establish Ithasala 
with any planet. However, being in Rashyanta, it may be 
considered to be operating from the next house where it 
will be in the beginning of the sign, and capable of causing 
a Rashyanta Ithasala with the Sun as well as Saturn. An 
Ithasala Between the eleventh lord (the Moon) and the 
twelfth lord (the Sun) further confirms sudden, unexpected 
gains from a far off place. An Ithasala Between the fifth 
and eleventh lords is good for children. 


(v) The birth lagna sign, Scorpio, falls in the third house 
signifying something significant in respect of the sibling 
during the year. The lord of the third house, Mars, is placed 
in the fourth house (second from the third) in Ithasala with 
the tenth (cighth from the third) lord, Mercury. Mars is 
also in Poorna Ithasala with the ninth and second lord 
(seventh and twelfth lord from the third), Venus. It is in 
close proximity to the RKA. The native lost his brother 
during this year. Mars is not only the third lord but also 
the Karaka for brother. 


3. Bhavishyat Ithasala (or ‘the, Ithasala-to-be’): This is 
subject to the following conditions: 
{i) The fast-moving planet is at the end of a sign (29° or more; 
i.e., in Rashyanta); 


(ii) The slow-moving planet is in the beginning of the next sign 
and within the Deeptamsha range of the two planets. 


Comments: When two planets are situated in contiguous 
houses, they are devoid of any mutual aspect and, therefore, 
incapable of forming an Ithasala. The Rashyanta, however, is a 
different situation. Here, a planet at the end of a sign is 
considered to be operating from the next house. If another planet 
in the next house is not too far advanced, an Ithasala yoga is 
possible. The Bhavishyat Ithasala also indicates the fulfilment of 
some promise though it usually takes place during the later part 
of the year. 

In Chart X-7, the Moon (twelfth lord) and Mercury (eleventh 
and second lord) are involved in Poorna Ithasala, the two being 


123 


within one degree and are mutually aspecting. During the year 
in question, the native suffered losses (twelfth house: loss; 
eleventh house : income; second house : wealth) through theft. 
Mercury is also on the last degree of Sagittarius. The lagna lord, 
the Sun, is in the next house, in Capricorn, at 11°9°. The 
Deeptamsha range of the Sun and Mercury (15+7, divided by 
two) is 11°. The slow-moving Sun is just beyond their 
Decptamsha range. This may in practice be taken as an example 
of the Bhavishyat Ithasala. Thus, Mercury the lord of the houses 
of income and wealth, establishes a relationship with the twelfth 
lord on the one hand, and the lagna lord in the sixth house on 
the other. The loss of earnings and wealth occurred through theft 
(indicated by the sixth house). The lagna lord, the Sun, is also 
involved in an Ithasala with the sixth lord Saturn in the sixth 
house. 

The results of the Bhavishyat Ithasala generally occur during 
the later part of the year. It will be interesting to note that in 
the case of the above native, one theft occurred in the beginning 
of his year (indicated by the Poorna Ithasala, which indicates early 
accomplishment) and the other just before the year concluded 
(indicated by the Bhavishyat Ithasala suggesting delay). Tdis 
makes it amply obvious that an Ithasala generally indicates the 
accomplishment of an event which need not necessarily be favourable. 
The actual nature of results will depend on both the planets as 
well as the houses involved. 


Jupiter 


(R) 


Lagna 20°47 Mars 13°22" Venus 06°41" 
Sun 11°09" Mercury 29°29 Saturn 1753" 
Moon 28°57" Jupiter (R) 19°50 Rahu 15°50" 


124 


The Bhavishyat Ithasala has been mentioned above as 
occurring between two planets placed in contiguous houses, hence 
not mutually aspecting, with the fast-moving planet at the end 
of a sign in the preceding house, and the slow-moving planet 
in the beginning of a sign in the succeeding house. How then 
about a situation in which the fast-moving planet is at the end 
of a sign in the succeeding house, with the. slow-moving one is 
the beginning of a sign in the preceding house? For, though the 
two planets are not mutually aspecting if considered in contiguous 
houses, they will establish aspect if the fast-moving planet is 
considered to be operating from the following house for reason 
of its being in Rashyanta. The only difference here will be that 
the two planets will influence each other by aspect while in the 
actual definition as given above they would do so by conjunction. 

In Chart X-8, the Moon in the eleventh house in Rashyanta 
has no apparent relation with Mars in the preceding, i.e., the 
tenth, house at 3°56" in Libra. When the fast-moving Moon is 
considered operating from the twelfth house, the slow-moving 
Mars falls just ahead of the Moon within their Deeptamsha 
range, and mutually aspecting. This must produce results 
equivalent to a Bhavishyat Ithasala. Mars, the lord of the fourth 
and the eleventh houses, is in the tenth in Ithasala with the lagna 
lord Saturn in the lagna. The Moon in the eleventh house, about 
to enter the twelfth and thus establishing a sort of a Bhavishyat 
Ithasala with the fourth lord Mars ensured the acquisition of a 


Lagna 27°50" Mars 03°56' Venus 11°02" 
Sun 25°42" Mercury 20°38" Saturn 06°30" 
Moon 29°56" Jupiter 12°30' Rahu 19°55’ 


125 


vehicle toward the end of the year. The Moon is the seventh 
lord, of travel, entering the twelfth house, of distant or overseas 
journey, linking with the fourth lord. On acquisition of the 
vehicle, the native along with her parents, went on tour to a 
neighbouring state by the recently acquired vehicle. What was 
the ‘aqueous connection’ in this journey, was my question. The 
Moon, a watery planet, is operating from the twelfth house. This 
visit, I was told, was to Udaipur, the ‘city of lakes’, in Rajasthan 
where the native did a lot of boating, and enjoyed. 


Note: Another situation of Bhavishyat Ithasala has been said to 
arise when the following conditions apply : 


(i) Two planets mutually aspecting each other; 


(ii) The slow-moving planet is ahead of the fast-moving 
planets; 


(iti) The slow-moving planet, however, is beyond the Deeptamsha 
range. 


When this sort of a Bhavishyat Ithasala is being considered, 
the additional points to be noted are: 


(a) For this yoga to fructify, the difference between the two 
planets must be more than the individual Deeptamshas of the 
fast-moving planet. 


{b) When the slow-moving planet is ahead of the fast-moving 
planet by more than the sum of their individual Deeptamshas, 
the yoga may be said to be non-existent. 


Let us refer to the Example Chart (Chart X-1). The Moon, 
at 9°40' is aspecting Venus at 21°45". The difference between the 
two is thus 12°5'. The Deeptamsha range of Moon-Venus, 1.c., 
the mean of their individual Deeptamshas, is 9°30". Venus has 
thus gone beyond the range necessary for an Ithasala. It is also 
located beyond the 12 degrees which are the individual 
Deeptamshas of the Moon. There is thus a Bhavishyat Ithasala 
between the Moon and Venus. 

In the same chart, let us consider the relationship of the Sun 
(3°40') and Saturn (17°13'), which aspect each other from the 


tenth and the twelfth houses respectively. The slow-moving 


126 


Saturn is 13°23' ahead of the Sun, and beyond their Deeptamsha 
range of 12 degrees, Saturn is, however, within the 15 degrees 
which happen to be the individual Deeptamshas of the 
fast-moving Sun. There is thus no Bhavishyat Ithasala here. This 
definition of the Bhavishyat Ithasala needs wider application and 
empirical testing. 


Important Points for Consideration 


A few important points, particularly in regard to the direct or 
retrograde motion of planets, need special consideration while 
dealing with the Ithasala yoga. They are: 

1. A retrograde fast-moving planet at lesser number of degrees of 
longitude does not produce Ithasala since its motion is in opposite 
direction to that of the more advanced slow-moving planet, and 
the two are moving away from each other. Thus, in the Example 
Chart, there is no Ithasala between Jupiter and Saturn although 
the fast-moving Jupiter is behind the slower Saturn, the two are 
mutually in aspect, and they are also within their Deeptamsha 
range, because the fast-moving Jupiter is retrograde. 

2. A slow-moving retrograde planet at greater number of degrees 
of longitude increases the intensity of the Ithasala. Thus, in the 
Example Chart again, the Sun and Jupiter are in Ithasala, and 
the retrogression of Jupiter, slow-moving and ahead of the Sun, 
only increases the intensity of the Ithasala. 

3, When both the lagnesha and the karyesha are retrograde, 
debilitated, combust, or otherwise weak, the Ithasala yoga 
generally does not fructify. 


IV. THE ISHRAFA YOGA 


This is the ‘yoga of separation. The word Israf indicates expense 
or wastage. It is also known as the ‘Mushrif yoga’. 


Definition: The Ishrafa yoga obtains when: 


(i) The fast-moving planet is one degree or more ahead of the 
slow-moving planet; and 


(it) The two are mutually aspecting. 


Results: This yoga is the reverse of the Ithasala. It indicates 
obstacles and failures. 


127 


Note: An Ishrafa yoga involving benefics only tends to hamper 
work but is not considered to be too harmful. Caused by 
malefics, it is particularly bad, and not only causes failure 
in undertakings but numerous additional troubles and 
disappointments. 


Comments: With the fast-moving planet ahead of the 
slow-moving planet, the two have no chance of meeting each 
other, and thus there is no likelihood of their sharing each other's 
strength. This yoga of separation starts operating as soon as the 
slow-moving planet and the fast-moving planet separate by more 
than one degree. The yoga tends to lose in intensity as the 
difference between the ewo planets goes on increasing, until it 
ceases to exist as they separate by more than their Deeptamsha 
range (arrived at by halving the sum of individual Deeptamshas 
of the two planets). 

In the Example Chart, the Moon is ahead of the 
slower-moving lagna lord Mars, and is located in the RKA in 
the seventh, a maraka, house. The Moon is the karaka for 
mother. The native lost his mother. The same Moon also has 
an Ishrafa with the Sun. These two planets are lords of the ninth 
and the tenth houses, and are located in the seventh and the 
tenth houses respectively. This situation indicates the 
development of such new associations (or the cessation of such 
older ones!) in the pursuit of one’s Karma (the tenth house), 
which could eventually prove only unfortunate or harmful to 
one’s career (Ishrafa between the ninth and the tenth lords). 
While putting forth this sort of analysis, it is important to bear 
in mind that the Sun and the Moon are benefic planets for the 
Scorpio ascendant and their Ishrafa may not prove to be too 
bad for the native. In addition, there is a highly beneficial 
Vartamana Ithasala between the tenth lord, the Sun, and the 
lagna lord, Mars, both quite powerful according to the Pancha- 
vargiya Bala. This would more than neutralise any minor 
obstructive influence (like the Ishrafa yoga in question) on the 
tenth house. 

In this same chart, Saturn at 17°13' also establishes Ishrafa 
with Mercury at 18°20’, and with Venus at 21°45’. While the 
Saturn-Venus Ishrafa is easy to understand, the Saturn-Mercury 


128 


is rather difficult to interpret. In the latter case, the fast-moving 
Mercury is ahead of the slow-moving Saturn, but this Mercury 
is retrograde. Does it then mean an lihasala between the two 
since they are proceeding towards each other? Or does it mean 
a more intense Ishrafa since the distance between the two is 
gradually decreasing? Should we also consider the likely 
astronomical possibility of the retrograde planet eventually 
joining’ the direct planet and creating a situation like a Poorna 
Ithasala, or that of the retrograde planet resuming direct motion 
before closing up on the slow-moving planet and thereby 
retaining the situation of an Ishrafa?_A large number of charts with 
such situations will have to be examined before formulating any 
conclusions. : 

Another situation of an Ishrafa yoga arises when the 
slow-moving planet, behind the faster-moving one, is retrograde. 
In Chart X-9, there is an Ishrafa between the lagna lord and 
the eighth lord, invoking houses 3 and 7. The slow-moving eighth 
lord, Saturn, is retrograde. An Ithasala between the lagna lord 
and the eighth lord is generally adverse; an Ishrafa is worse. Is 
it still worse with the slow-moving planet retrograde? The native 
lost his life as a consequence of a bomb explosion. Note the aspect 
of Mars (explosions, ammunition), lord of the sixth house 
(enemies, accidents), on the lagna lord, from the twelfth house 


(departure from the world). 
upiter Venus 
Keru 
4 Lagna 


Sex 


Lagna 07715" Mars — 00°30" Venus 14°46’ 
Sun 03°50 Mercury 23°50" Saturn (R} 25°50" 
Moon 08°02" Jupiter 06°48" Rahu 13°30 


129 


V. THE NAKTA YOGA 
This is the ‘yoga with a fast linkage’. 
Definition: The necessary conditions for this yoga are: 


Gi) No mutual aspect between the lagnesha and the karyesha; 


(ii) A faster-moving planet is located between the lagnesha and 
the karyesha, in mutual aspect with both, encompassing them 
both within its individual Deeptamshas. 


Resuit: Accomplishment with the help of someone. 

Comments : When two planets are not in mutual aspect, there 
is a lack of relationship between them. The intervening planet 
provides the necessary link. This intervening planet transmits the 
strength (the actual term used is Teja or glow) from the planet 
behind (the faster of the lagnesha and the karyesha) to the one 
ahead (the slower of the two). While an Ithasala indicates the 
accomplishment of a job by the native himself, a Nakta 
necessitates the intervention of another. 

The important point in the Nakta yoga is the absence of any 
mutual aspect between two planets, and a link provided by a third 
one, This intervening planet must aspect both the mutually non- 
aspecting planets. Either of the two non-aspecting and, therefore, 
unrelated planets must lie within the individual Deeptamshas of 
the intervening planet, This intervening planet has to be faster 
than both the unrelated planets to ensure a smooth accomplishment 
ofa purpose. If goes without saying that a Nakta yoga cannot form 
with the Moon as one of the non-aspecting participants, since there 
is no other planet which is faster than the Moon so as to qualify 
for the intervening link. 

Must the faster of the two mutually non-aspecting planets 
be behind the slower one so as to effect'a Nakta yoga? Perhaps 
it is preferable. 

As has already been stated, the terms ‘lagnesha’ and ‘karyesha’ 
are being quite freely employed even when it is not always the 
lagna lord that is being taken to be meant by ‘lagnesha’. 

Likely variations of the Nakta yoga: The standard Nakta yoga 
demands that a faster planet should be located between the two 
non-aspecting slow-moving planets, and the latter two should be 
within the range of individual Deeptamshas of the fast-moving 


130 


planet. There is a possibilicy of the faster planet establishing an 
Ithasala with one slow mover and an Ishrafa with the other slow 
mover though not necessarily so. The faster planet acts as a link 
between the mutually non-aspecting lagnesha-keryesha. We have, 
however, also seen that if the faster planet is behind both the 
slow movers and not between them, while both the slow movers 
remain within the individual Deeptamshas of the fast mover, with 
the possibility of the latter forming an Ithasala with both, the 
fast mover still provides a link between the two. Further, even 
if the fast mover has gone beyond the degrees of both the 
lagnesha-karyesha while still aspecting the latter two from within 
its individual Deeptamshas, with the possibility of an Ishrafa yoga 
with both, some sort of a link between the lagnesha and karyesha 
is still in existence. We may thus have three different variations 
of the Nakta yoga as follows: 


Gi) Nakte yoga with double Ithasala : In the Example Chart, there 
is no mutual aspect between Mars, the lagna lord, and 
Jupiter, the lord of the second house, since the two are placed 
in 2/12 from each other. They have, therefore, no direct link 
with each other, However, the tenth lord, the Sun, aspects 
both of them from the tenth house. The Sun is faster than 
beth Mars and Jupiter, and related with them through an 
Ithasala yoga. In any case, both Mars and Jupiter fall within 
the individual Deeptamshas of the Sun. Thus Mars and 
Jupiter become involved in a Nakta yoga through the Sun. 
This appears to be the best form of the Nakta yoga since 
a two-way Ithasala is effected. 


Chart X-10 is another example of a Nakta yoga involving a 
double Ithasala. Here, the lagna lord, Venus, located in the 
eleventh house, has no relation with the fourth and fifth lord, 
Saturn in the fourth house. However, the tenth lord, the Moon, 
located in the eighth house, establishes Ithasala with the lagna 
Jord and with the fourth/fifth lord. Thus, a Nakta yoga is formed 
between the lagna Jord and the fourth/fifth lord. A similar yoga 
obtains between the seventh lord, Mars, and Saturn again with 
the help of the Moon. Between the lagna lord and the seventh 
lord, both located in the eleventh house, there is an Ishrafa since 
the fast-moving Venus is situated ahead of the slow-moving 


131 
‘ Lagna j 
7 
4 


Chart X-10 Mercury 


July 8, 1991 Jupiter 


Lagna 16°04" Mars 01°45' Venus 04°17" 
Sun 21°47' Mercury 12°52' Satur {R) 11°07 
Moon 01°00" Jupiter 22°03' Rahu 25712" 


Mars. This mutual Ishrafa has a neutralising factor in the Moon 
which is in Ithasala with both Mars and Venus. The native, who 
had to separate from his wife and children, finally united with 
them thanks to a Nakta yoga. The location of the tenth tord in 
the eighth house caused fluctuations in career but the 
involvement of the cleventh house did not permit any lasting 
damage. 

Let us look at this chart for his wife, with the seventh house 
taken as lagna. The tenth (and eleventh) lord, Saturn, is in the 
tenth house in Ithasala yoga with the fourth lord, the Moon, and 
in a Nakta yoga with the eighth lord (and lagna lord), Mars, 
located in the fifth house. She had to temporarily discontinue 
her job in order to pursue higher studies (fifth house !). Yogas 
involving the eleventh house or eleventh lord generally produce 
benefic results in the long run. Those involving the eighth house 
or eighth lord generally produce obstructions or discontinuity, 
which may be damaging or beneficial depending upon other, 
attendant factors. 


(ii) One Ithasala-one Ishrafa : This is the standard Nakta yoga as 
described in the classics. In Chart X-11, there is no aspect 
between Jupiter (lord of the fifth and the eighth houses, in 
the twelfth house) and Saturn (lord of the sixth and the 
seventh houses, in the fifth house). However, the faster-moving 
Moon is located in the third house and aspects both Jupiter 


132 


Jupiter 
Ketu 
Chart X-11 
: va 
Nov, 16, 1990 [ | 
Lagna 
7 un ” 
fenus 
Saturn Mercury Moon 
Muntha 


Lagna 28°08" Mars (R) 15°41" Venus 04°18" 


Rahu 


Sun 00°30" Mercury 15°03" Saturn 27°19" 
Moon 24°48" Jupiter 19°34! Rahu 06°39 


‘and Saturn. The Moon at 24°48 establishes Ithasala with 
Saturn at 27°19, and Ishrafa with Jupiter at 19°34’. Thus a 
link is established between Jupiter and Saturn through the 
fast-moving Moon. The ‘Ishrafa’ link probably reduces the 
quality of the Nakta yoga, and the malefic lordship of all the 
three participants in this yoga makes it distinctly malefic. It 
was during this particular year that the native had to separate 
from his wife and child, and undergo tremendous suffering, 
including imprisonment, with his father-in-law (third house; 
ninth from the seventh) being an active ingredient in a 
mixture of malefics. 


(iii) Nakta yoga with double Ishrafa: In Chart X-12, Jupiter, the 
lord of the eighth house in the lagna, at 14°26’, has no relation 
with Mercury, the lord of the second and the eleventh in the 
eighth house, at 15°24". However, the twelfth lord, the Moon, 
at 19°46', aspects both Mercury and Jupiter, and establishes 
a link between the two. However, the faster-moving Moon 
is located ahead of both Mercury and Jupiter. Thus, it 
establishes an Ishrafa with Jupiter on the one hand and with 
Mercury on the other. Such a Nakta yoga has to be 
qualitatively inferior to the other two varieties mentioned 
above since the link involves two Ishrafa yogas. During this 
particular year, the native of this annual chart lost her 
valuables and earnings repeatedly, and suffered il] health. This 


133 


oS Lagna : & 
Jupiter 


up 


pecan) | om | Rew 


Chart X-12 
March 11, 1992 


Lagna 20°20" Mars 23°25’ Venus 02°40" 
Sun a7°25" Mercury 15°24’ Saturn 20°14 
Moon 19°46! Jupiter (R) 14°26' Rahu 12°48" 


is in keeping with the lordship of planets (Jupiter: eighth 
lord; Mercury eleventh and second lord; and the Moon: 
twelfth lord), and the houses involved (lagna, eighth, and 
tenth). 


A Nakta yoga, like the Ithasala, thus need not be always beneficial. 
An analysis of a given yoga necessarily involves the consideration of 
the lordship as well as the house occupation of planets. 


VI. THE YAMAYA YOGA 
This is the ‘yoga with a slow linkage’. 
Definition: A Yamaya yoga forms when: 


(i) There is no mutual aspect between the lagnesha and the 
karyesha; and 

(ii) An intervening slow-moving planet aspects both the lagnesha 
and the karyesha from within its Deeptamshas. 

Results : Fulfilment of a promise with the help of someone, 
but with some difficulty. 

Comments: The Yamaya yoga resembles the Nakta with the 
difference that here the link between the two mutually 
non-aspecting planets is provided by a slow intervening planet. 
As in the Nakta, so in the Yamaya, the presence of a link indicates 
the role of an intermediary in the fulfilment of a promise. When 
the linking planet is strong, the accomplishment is quick and 


134 


without any problems. A slow link indicates that the job will be 
done but not with ease. 

In Chart X-13, there is no relationship between the lagna lord, 
Jupiter, and the seventh lord, Mercury, situated in the third and 
the second houses respectively. However, a retrograde Saturn, lord 
of the eleventh and the twelfth houses, is located in the fifth 
house, establishing a Poorna Ithasala with Mercury and a 
Vartamana Ithasala with Jupiter. The lagna lord and the seventh 
lord thus get linked together through the eleventh/ twelfth lord, 
Satum. The native got married during this year. The auspicious 
event was accomplished through the help of the native’s elder 
sibling (the eleventh lord!) as well as her husband’s maternal aunt 
(the twelfth lord, sixth from the seventh or husband!), The 
additional points that may be noted are that Jupiter, the 
significator for children, is in Ithasala with the eleventh lord in 
the fifth house, while the seventh lord is within one degree of 
the fifth lord, the Moon, and in aspect with it. A pregnancy 
resulted soon after marriage. However, both the seventh lord and 
the fifth lord are in Jthasala with Mars in the twelfth house. The 
result was a termination of pregnancy. 

It may be pointed out that the example quoted here does 
not conform to the standard definition of Yamaya where the 
slower planet should lie between the two non-aspecting 
planets. The reader is advised to go back to our comments on 
the Nakta yoga. 


VLagna |Mercu 
Sun | Ketu | Jupiter 
Ven (R)]Muntha 


Chart X-13 


April 10, 1977 i 
sion] fe | 
Lagna 14°35' Mars 22°15' ' Venus (R} 20°30’ 
Sun 26°28" Mercury 15°44’ Saturn (R) 16°25" 


Moon 16°05’ Jupiter 07°43' Rahu 60°42" 


135 


The quality of the Yamaya may also be adversely affected 
when the intervening linking planet is handicapped by being 
combust or retrograde. In Chart X-14, there is no link between 
Mars, the lord of the fourth house, and the Moon, the lord of 
the seventh house, since the two are located in 6/8 from each 
other. But a retrograde lagna lord, Saturn, in the lagna is situated 
between the two and aspects them both. The Moon and Mars 
are both within the individual Deeptamshas of Saturn. A Yamaya 
yoga is formed. There is a Poorna Ithasala with Mars and an 
Isharafa with the Moon. The native (lagna) is busy attempting 
a rapprochement between the mutually indifferent mother 
(fourth lord) and wife (seventh lord), The uphill task continues. 

The Yamaya yoga obviously cannot form with Saturn as one 
of the non-aspecting participants since there is no planet slower 
than Satu to qualify for the intervening link. 


Chart X-14 


July 7, 1992 


Lagna 13°34 Mars 22°53' Venus 28°30’ 
Sun 27°58" Mercury 17°S8 Saturn (R} 23°30" 
Mocn 28°27' Jupiter 17°01 Rahu 06°51' 
VII. THE MANAU YOGA 


This indicates an ‘Ithasala at naught’. 
Definition This yoga arises when the following conditions 
are met: 


(i) Lagnesha and karyesha are in Ithasala; 


(ii) A malefic (either Mars, or Saturn, or both) is either conjunct 
with or inimically aspects the faster-moving of the lagnesha/ 
karyesha, from within its individual Deeptamshas. 


136 


Result : Fear from enemies, failure in undertakings, involvement 
in debts, quarrels, and loss of money. 

Comments: This yoga signifies a destruction of the Ithasala 
yoga. Mars and Saturn tend to absorb the strength of a planet 
which they either inimically aspect or associate with. While their 
association with the faster-moving of the two (1.¢., lagnesha and 
karyesha) has been stated to be harmful, some authorities 
attribute the same results to them when they are associated with 
or inimically aspect either of the two participants in an Ithasala 
yoga irrespective of its relative velocity. The affected planet must 
be within the individual Deeptamshas of either Mars or Saturn. 
It does not matter whether Mars or Saturn is behind or ahead 
of the affected planet. This yoga nullifies the results which are 
likely to accrue from an Ithasala yoga. Thus, for example, an 
Ithasala yoga between the lagna lord and the fifth lord, when 
afflicted by Mars or Saturn as described above, does not permit 
any benefit or pleasure from the offspring as expected, but only 
leads to worry and disappointment. It is important, however, to 
keep in mind.the likely situation where either Mars or Saturn 
could be one or both of the lagnesha and karyesha In such a 
case, a blind application of this yoga may not be relevant. 

In the Example Chart (Chart X-1), the lagna lord is Mars, 
It is in Ithasala with the tenth lord, the Sun. Both the lagna 
lord and the Sun are very strong in the Panchavargiya table. 
Despite a mutual hostile aspect between the Sun and Mars, the 
Ithasala yoga between the lagna lord and the tenth lord 
manifested fully, conferring on the native an extra-ordinarily 
prestigious position. Saturn's aspect on the Sun has not rendered 
the Ithasala yoga defunct. Saturn's aspect here is a friendly aspect, 
and not inimical. 


VII. THE KAMBOOLA YOGA 
The Kamboola is a ‘yoga of potentiated Ithasala’. 
Definition : This yoga is produced as follows: 
Gi) Ithasala between lagnesha and karyesha. 
Gi) The Moon joins either or both of the above by Ithasala. 


Result: This yoga improves the results indicated by an Ithasala 
yoga and enhances the signification of the houses involved. The 


137 


results manifest according to the strength or weakness of the 
lagnesha, the karyesha, and the Moon. 

Comments: Kamboola is a distortion of the word Makéoo/ 
meaning ‘highly desirable’. The association of the Moon with an 
Ithasala yoga enhances the status of the Ithasala yoga and speeds 
up its fruition. It is a highly desirable yoga. For the results to 
be desirable, however, both the Moon as well as the participants 
in the Ithasala yoga {i.c., the lagnesha and the karyesha) must 
be strong. When both the sides are strong, a very powerful yoga 
is produced. When, however, the yoga has weak constituents, the 
combination proves to be little more than a wastage. Sixteen 
different types of the Kamboola yoga are described, depending upon 
the strength or weakness of participants in the yoga. 

The disposition of planets for the purpose of the Kamboola 
yoga may be described as follows: 


(a) Excellent (Uttama’), when a planet is exalted or in its own 
house. 


(b) Good (Madhyama’), when it is in its own Hudda, its own 
Drekkana, or its own Navamsha. Since the Moon does not 
own any Hudda, its being in its own Drekkana or Navamsha 
only is to be considered good. 


(c) Inferior (Adhama’), when it is placed in its sign of debilitation 
or in the sign of an enemy. 


(d) Mediocre or neutral (‘Sama’), when none of the above 
mentioned qualifications apply, i.e., when the planet is neither 
exalted nor debilitated, nor in its own Hudda, Drekkana or 


Table X-2 
Different types of the Kamboola yoga. 
A shift downwards and to the right im the table indicates 
progressive decline in the quality of the yoga 


Lagnesha/Karyesha 


Excellent Good Mediecre Inferior 

Excellent Exc-Exc Exc-Good Exc-Medi Exe-Inf 
Good Good-Exe Good-Good Good-Medi Good-Inf 
Mediocre Medi-Exc Medi-Good Medi-Medi Medi-Inf 

Inferior Inf-Exe Inf-Good Inf-Medi Inf-Inf 


Zoo”; 


138 


Navamsha, and is located in the house of a planet neutral 
to it. 


A combination of the above mentioned four states of the 
Moon on the one hand, and the lagnesha-karyesha on the other, 
produces sixteen different combinations as shown in Table X-2. 

When it is an Excellent-Excellent Kamboola-yoga, the 
Ithasala yoga fructifies to the fullest extent. As we proceed 
downward and to the right in the table, the quality of the 
Kamboola yoga declines progressively, and the benefic effects 
dwindle, so that at the Inferior-Inferior combination the yoga 
loses all its potency. In between, the yoga permits fructification 
with effort. 

In Chart X-15; the lagna lord is exalted in the tenth house, 
an excellent condition for rise in profession. The lord of the tenth 
house is in the eighth house in Ithasala with the lagna lord. This 
indicates a discontinuity (eighth house) in a job (tenth house) 
yielding place to another one of a superior nature. The presence 
of an Ithasala of both the lagna lord and the tenth lord with 
Mars in the eighth house causes the Manau yoga (yoga no.7, 
vide supra) which indicated the neutralisation of an Ithasala. 
However, there is the strong Moon, the seventh lord in the 
seventh house establishing Ithasala with the exalted lagna lord 
in the tenth house. A powerful Kamboola yoga (Excellent-Excellent 
type) exists here. The native had to give up his current job, but 
attained a better and higher position in his profession. Mars is 


Chart X-15 
Oct. 1, 1983 


06°07’ Venus 03°55" 
26712" Saturn 10°05" 
13°66 Rahu 24°57" 


139 


also the lord of the eleventh house. Seddom do yogas involving the 
eleventh house or the eleventh lord prove defunct. 

In Chart X-16, there is an Ithasala between the lagna lord, 
Venus, and the ninth (and tenth) lord Saturn, involving houses 
seven and nine. The ninth house signifies Bhagya (loosely and 
inadequately translated as ‘good fortune’). The Moon involves 
both the lagna lord and the ninth lord in an Ithasala yoga, 
thus producing a Kamboola yoga. While the ninth lord is in it 
own house, the Moon is debilitated. This gives rise to an 
“Inferior-Excellent” variety of the Kamboola yoga, indicating 
only a mixed fortune. The ninth house is also an alternate house 
for progeny. Some hope of begetting progeny was aroused during 
this year following sustained medical treatment, though it was 
not successful eventually. There are other adverse features in the 
chart which do not permit the fulfilment of a cherished desire. 
They include: 


~ the recurrence of the birth ascendant (Taurus) in the annual 
chart; 


~ the Muntha located in the twelfth house; 
— the Muntha lord in the eighth house; 


— no Ithasala between the lagna lord and the fifth lord; and 


— an Ishrafa between the fifth lord and the eleventh lord 
(denying progeny). 


Chart X-16 
January 1, 1992 

Saturn 

Mars 

Sun Venus 

Rahu |Mercur 
Lagna 11°53" Mars 00°20" Venus 07°10" 
Sun 16°28" Mercury 24°42 Saturn 12°09" 


Moon 04°52’ Jupiter (R) 20°53 Rahu 16°06’ 


140 


IX. THE GAIRI-KAMBOOLA YOGA 
A ‘Kamboola through intervention’. 
Definition : This happens as follows : 
(i) Lagnesha and karyesha in Ithasala. 
(ii} An unqualified Moon on the last degree of a sign. 


(iii) On entering the next sign, the Moon establishes Ithasala 
with: 
{a) Lagnesha/karyesha; and 


(b) Some powerful planet. 


Results; Accomplishment through the help of someone else. 

Comments: A planet is unqualified when it is neither exalted 
nor debilitated, nor aspected/associated, nor in its own Hudda, 
Drekkana or Navamsha. 

Chart X-17 depicts a hypothetical situation where the lagna 
lord, Mars, located in the seventh house is in Ithasala with the 
Sun in the ninth house. The Moon in the second house is 
unqualified, and at Rashyanta (29°). On entering the next, i.e., 
the third, house the Moon enters into Ithasala with Saturn in 
its own house. It also gets involved in Ithasala with the lagna 
lord as well as the tenth lord. This yoga leads to the fructification 
of results through the help or intervention of someone else. It 
may be pertinent to note here that a mere Ithasala yoga between 
the lagnesha and the karyesha does not produce desirable effects 
unless it involves desirable houses, and is in some way potentiated 


Chart X-17 | 


(Hypothetical) 


Moon 29° Mars & Saturn 7" 


141 


by the Moon. The Gairi-Kamboola yoga does not yield results 
if the unqualified Moon, on entering the next house, establishes 
Ithasala only with a weak planet. 


X, THE KHALLASARA YOGA 
This is a ‘negation of the Ithasala yoga’. 
Definition : 

G) Lagnesha and karyesha in Ithasala. 


(ii) Unqualified Moon, neither associated nor in Ithasala with 
either the lagnesha or the karyesha. 


Results: Destruction of the results of a Kamboola yoga. 


Comments: The results of this yoga are mentioned to be 
‘destruction of the Kamboola yoga. In fact, however, the 
Kamboola yoga does not arise at all since the Moon does not 
get involved here. And since the Moon is not even in Rashyanta, 
it cannot produce a Gairi-Kamboola yoga also. So, what is left 
behind is a plain and simple Ithasala yoga. This in a way means 
that an Ithasala alone is not productive of desired results unless 
it gets some potentiation through the Moon. 


XI. THE RUDDA YOGA 

Another ‘negation of the Ithasala’. 
Definition : 

(i) Lagnesha and karyesha in Ithasala. 


(ii) Either of the two above is retrograde, or combust, or 
debilitated, or in houses 6, 8 or 12, or occupies an 
inimical house, or is in conjunction with or aspected by a 
malefic. 


Results; Destruction of the results indicated by the Ithasala 
yoga. 

Comments: This yoga of the negation of Ithasala needs 
some clarification here. The qualities of retrogression, 
combustion, debilitation, ete., as mentioned above are 
considered as handicaps in the fruition of results. When such 
disqualifications are applicable to the faster-moving of the two 
participants in the Ithasala, the Rudda yoga is more likely to 


142 


occur. In any case, when, in an Ithasala, a slow-moving planet 
is retrograde it increases the intensity of the Ithasala, and the 
Rudda yoga does not apply. When the fast-moving planet is 
retrograde, there is no Ithasala anyway. Retrogression thus 
does not seem to be of much significance in the consideration 
of a Rudda yoga. Combustion, debilitation, an adverse location 
or an adverse association are certainly important factors. A 
very weak planet participating in an Ithasala yoga also 
neutralises the effects of Ithasala, since a weak planet is 
functionally useless. 

‘Two specific distinctions are also mentioned in relation to a 
Rudda yoga depending upon the placement of the rwo planets 
forming the Ithasala. When the fast-moving planet, placed in a 
kendra, establishes Ithasala with a slow-moving planet im an 
apoklima house, it gives good results in the beginning, which get 
spoilt finally. On the other hand, a fast-moving planet in an 
apoklima house, establishing Ithasala with a slow-moving planet 
in a kendra, causes eventual improvement in a situation which 
has been in a bad shape earlier. 


XI. THE DUHPHALI-KUTTHA YOGA 
Definition : 
(i} Lagnesha and karyesha in Ithasala. 


(ii) The slow-moving planet is (a) in exaltation, (b) in own house, 
or (c) otherwise strong. 


(iit) The fast-moving planet is (a) weak, ((b) not exalted, and (c) 


not in its own house. 
Results: Realisation of the desired effect. 


Comments: The fast-moving planet in this yoga is required 
to be weaker than the slow-moving planet. The strength must 
be judged from the Pancha-vargiya table. According to the 
classical description, the yoga does not fructify if the fast-moving 
planet is retrograde or combust. This yoga appears to be nothing 
more than a simple Ithasala yoga between a stronger slow- 
moving planet and a relatively weaker fast-moving planet. We 
can't figure out why this yoga must at all be mentioned as a 
separate combination. The stipulation that the fast-moving planet 


143 


should not be retrograde also does not seem to be of much 
relevance since an Ithasala has already been described to be non- 
existent when the fast-moving planet happens to be retrograde 
(see page 126). 


XHI. THE DUTTHOTTHA - DAVIRA YOGA 
Definition : 


(i) Lagnesha and karyesha are weak (whether or not they are 
in Ithasala!) 


(ii) One of them (i.e., lagnesha or karyesha) is in Ithasala with 
another strong planet which is either exalted or in its own 
house. 


Results : Realisation of the motive with the help of some one 
else. 


Comments : Ithasala with a strong planet renders a weak planet 
also strong. In the yoga under consideration, a weak lagnesha and 
a weak karyesha are rendered strong by associating with a strong 
planet through Ithasala. The lagnesha and karyesha may not be 
mutually involved in an Ithasala, but must be in mutual aspect 
to derive any benefit from a third strong planet. 


XIV. THE TAMBIRA YOGA 

Definition : 

(i) Lagnesha and karyesha are not in mutual aspect or Ithasala. 
(ti) The karyesha (1.c., the significator) is in Rashyanta. 

(iti) On entering the next house, the karyesha establishes Ithasala 


with the lagnesha, and with another planet which is strong 
or in its own house. 


Results: Accomplishment through the help of someone, 
generally after some delay. 


Comments: According to some authorities, either of the 
lagnesha and karyesha may be at the end of a sign, and establish 
Ithasala with a strong planet as also with the lagnesha/karyesha 
as appropriate, on entering the next sign. This yoga is also called 
as the Shubha-Tambira yoga. 


144 


XV. THE KUTTHA YOGA 
Definition ‘ 


(1) Lagnesha and karyesha are powerful and posited in the 
kendras or the panapharas. 


(ii) Presence of benefic aspects, and absence of malefic aspects. 


Results: Generally favourable results, succéss, auspicious 
events. 


XVI. THE DURAPHA YOGA 


Definition : Lagnesha and karyesha are weak, posited in the Trika 
houses {i.e., houses 6, 8 and 12), and combust and retrograde. 


Results ; Failures, inauspicious events. 


Comments: This and the preceding yogas are mutually 
antagonistic. The simple rule is that the lagnesha and karyesha 
in benefic houses with benefic association/aspect are productive 
of good results. Otherwise, they lead to disappointments and 
failures. 

Table X-3 provides a glimpse of the Tajika yogas mentioned 
above. 


GENERAL HINTS AT INTERPRETATION 


The Tajika yogas as mentioned above represent a very important 
area of annual horoscopy. The most important amongst these is, 
of course, the Ithasala yoga since it affords an understanding of 
most of the yogas and is an important constituent of many of 
these. It is a manipulation of the Ithasala yoga in essence, in 
various ways, that provides important clues to the events during 
the year. 

The mere presence or absence of the yogas is not the only 
factor of significance, however. The strength of planets 
participating in a yoga is also important. A weak planet is 
incapable of performing any fruitful function. As in the birth 
chart, so also in the annual chart, the strength of the lagna lord 
is of paramount importance. If the lagna lord is weak, most of 
the yogas which involve it also lose their potence. 


145 


Some people hold the lord of the year to be as important as 
the lagna lord itself. All the Tajika yogas may also be considered 
from the year lord in addition to the lagna lord, 


The Time of Fructification of the Yogas 


The various yogas manifest themselves in the dasha-antardasha 
of planets participating in the yogas. The most important dasha 
system is the Mudda dasha, the equivalent of the Vimshottari 
dasha in the birth chart. In general, a Poorna Ithasala gives results 
during the earlier part of the year while a Bhavishyat Ithasala 
does so in the later part of the year. 


The Importance of the Parashari System 


While analysing these yogas, the Parashari principles must always 
be taken into consideration. Thus, the lords of the houses 6, 8 
and 12, when involved in these yogas, render them crippled. 
Relation of the tenth lord with the eighth afflicts profession. 
Involvement of the third or sixth lords increases struggles during 
the year. Yogas involving the eleventh house or eleventh lord 
generally give fruitful results, while those involving the twelfth 
house or twelfth lord prove harmful or expensive. 

The promise in the birth horoscope is also of significance. 
An Ithasala yoga promising progeny will not bear fruit if the birth 
chart does not show any promise of progeny. Similarly, the dasha- 
antardasha operating in the birth chart must be considered and 
co-ordinated with the analysis of the annual chart. 


5.No. 


Yoga 
Tkabala 


Induvara 


Ithasala 
(a) Vartamana 


(b} Poorna 


(c) Bhavishyat 


(ii) 


Table X-3 
Yogas at a glance 


Definition 


All planets in kendras or panapharas. 


All planets in apoklimas. 


Mutual aspect between lagnesha and 
karyesha. 

The fast-moving planet behind the 
slow-moving planet. 

The lagnesha and the karyesha within 
their Deeptamsha range. 

Mutual aspect between the lagnesha 

and the karyesha. 

The fast-moving planet behind the 
slow-moving planet, but within one 
degree of it. 

The fast-moving planet at the end 

of a sign. 

The slow-moving planet at the beginning 
of the next sign, within their Deeptamsha 
range. 


Results 


Benefit from profession, access to 
wealth, gain in status, good luck. 
Disappointments, fall in status, 
ill health, worries. 


Fulfilment of a promise indicated 
by the karyesha {or significator). 


(Generally, immediate) fulfilment 
of a promise. 


Fulfilment (generally toward the 
end of the year). 


Contd 


OFT 


S.No, 


Yoga 
Ishrafa 


Nakra 


Yamaya 


Manau 


(i) 
(ii) 


Table X-3 (Contd.) 


Definition 


The fast-moving planet one degree or 
more ahead of the slow-moving planct. 
The two are in mutual aspect. 


No mutual aspect between the lagnesha 
and the karyesha, 

A faster-moving planet is located between 
the lagnesha and the karyesha, aspecting 
them both from within its individual 
Deeptamshas. 


No mutual aspect between the lagnesha 
and the karyesha. 

An intervening slow-moving planet aspects 
them both from within its individual 
Deeptamshas. 


The lagnesha and the karyesha in Ithasala. 


A malefic (Mars/Saturn) either conjunct 
with or inimically aspecting the faster of 
the lagnesha/karyesha, 


Results 


Failure in undertakings, 
disappointments. 


Fulfilment with the help 


of someone. 


Fulfilment with the help 
of someone, but with 


some difficuley. 


Failures and disappointments. 
Destruction of the Ithasala. 


Contd... 


LPT 


S.No. 


8. 


10. 


11. 


Yoga 


Kamboola 


Gairi-Kamboola 


Khallasara 


Rudda 


(i) 
(ii) 


Table X-3 (Contd.) 


Definition 


The lagnesha and the karyesha in Ithasala. 
The Moon joins either or both of the above 
by Ithasala. 


The lagnesha and the karyesha in Ithasala. 
An unqualified Moon on the last degree of 
a sign. 

On entering the next sign, the Moon forms 
Ithasala with: 

— lagnesha/karyesha; and 

— some powerful planet. 


The lagnesha and the karyesha in Ithasala. 
Unqualified Moon, neither conjunct with nor 


aspecting either the lagnesha or the karyesha. 


Ithasala between the lagnesha and the 
karyesha. 

Either of the two is retrograde, or combust, 
or debilitated, or in houses 6, 8 or 12, or 
under malefic influence. 


Results 


Improves the results indicated by 
the Ithasala. The strength or 
weakness of the Moon on the 
one hand and lagnesha/karyesha 
on the other determines the 


quality of the Kamboola Yoga. 


Fulfilment through the help of 
someone. 


Negation of the results indicated 
by the Ithasala. 


Negation of results indicated by 


the Ithasala. 


QbTL 


Table X-3 (Centd.) 


S.No. Yoga Definition 
12. Duhphali-kuttha (i} Ithasala between the lagnesha and 
the karyesha. 


(ii) The slower-moving planet is cither in 
exaltation, or in its own house, or otherwise 
strong. 

(iii) The faster moving one is weak, not exalted 
nor in its own house; it should, however, 
not be retrograde or combust. 


13. Dutthottha-Davira (i) The lagnesha and the karyesha are weak 
(whether or not in Ithasala), 
(iz) One of them is in Ithasala with another 
strong planet which is cither exalted or in 
its own houses. 


Results 


Realisation of the desired effect. 


Realisation of the motive with 
the help of someone else. 


Contd... 


6FT 


S.No. Yoga 

14. Tambira 

15, Kuttha 
16. Durapha 


Table X-3 (Contd.} 


Definition 


Results 


(i) The lagnesha and the karyesha are not in 
mutual aspect or Ithasala. 

(ii) The karyesha (significator) is at the end 
of a sign. 

(ii?) On entering the next house, the karyesha 
establishes Ithasal with the lagnesha, and 
with another planet which is strong or 
in its own house. 


(i) The lagnesha and the karyesha are powerful 
and posited in kendras or panapharas. 

(ii) Benefic influences on the lagnesha/karyesha, 
sans malefic influences. 


The lagnesha and the karyesha are weak, 
posited in the Trika houses, combust or 
retrograde. 


Fulfilment through the help of 
someone, generally after some 
delay. 


Generally favourable results 
during the year. 


Generally unfavourable. 


OST 


CHAPTER Xl 
THE SAHAMS 


Heaven and Earth and the space in between 
Have set me in a wide expanse! 
Fire, the Sun, the Waters, the Gods, 


have joined to give me inspiration. 


ATHARVA VEDA’ 


The Sahams are sensitive points arrived at by a certain 
manipulation of the longitudes of various planets and the mid- 
point of the ascendant (or, sometimes, of other houses). Different, 
though specific, manipulations yield different Sahams. Each 
Saham then holds sway over one particular event of life during 
the year indicated by the annual chart. Thus, such varied events 
as marriage, child birth, fame, travel, illness, death, and the like, 
are each ruled by a specific Saham. 

The number of Sahams recommended for application to an 
annual chart varies from one author on annual horoscopy to 
another. Thus, whereas Venkatesha describes forty-eight Sahams, 
Keshava makes a mention of only twenty-five, while Neelakantha 
(of the Tajika Neelakanthi fame) describes fifty Sahams. More 
recent practitioners of annual horoscopy have even considered 
using the extra-Saturnine planets (Uranus, Neptune and Pluto) 
to determine certain sensitive points although there is generally 
little reason to go into such diversions which, certainly, are not 
a recognised part of Vedic astrology. 

It is generally not necessary to calculate all the Sahams 
described in the texts, in a given annual chart. The practitioners 
of the Tajika pick up only the relevant Sahams pertaining to a 
particular year of life of a native, and analyse them. An already 


152 


married man, for example, has no use for a Saham indicating 
marriage. Or a child of tender years has no use for a Saham 
indicating progeny. 

Since the Sahams are manipulations of the longitudes and the 
mid~points respectively of planets and houses, it is essential that 
these are calculated accurately. In the account that follows, the 
formulae for the calculation of some of the important Sahams, 
based mainly on the Tajika Neelakanthi, are being given. 


1. Punya Saham (or the Saham for general auspiciousness). 
This is arrived at in the following manner 


(a) Varshapravesha during the day (i.c., between sunrise and 
sunset) 
Moon - Sun + Ascendant 
(i.e., longitude of the Moon, minus the longitude of the 
Sun, plus the mid-point of the ascendant). 


(b) Varshapravesha during the night (i.c., between sunset and 
sunrise) 
Sun - Moon + Ascendant 


2. Guru Saham (or the Saham pertaining to the preceptor). 
(a) Day : Sun ~ Moon + Ascendant 


(b) Night : Moon - Sun + Ascendant 
The Guru Saham is thus the reverse of the Punya 
Saham in calculation, 


3. Vidya (or Jnana) Saham (Saham for knowledge/higher 
education). The calculation for the Vidya Saham is the same 
as for the Guru Saham. This is because the Guru and Vidya 
(the preceptor and knowledge) go hand in hand. 


4, Yasha Saham (Saham for fame). 
(a) Day : Jupiter - Punya Saham + Ascendant 
(b) Night : Punya Saham - Jupiter + Ascendant 
5. Mitra Saham (Saham for friends). 
(a) Day : Gum Saham - Punya Saham + Venus 
(b) Night : Punya Saham - Guru Saham + Venus 


10. 


14. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


153 


Mahatmya Saham (Saham for fruits of virtuous living). 
(a) Day : Punya Saham - Mars + Ascendant 

(b) Night : Mars - Punya Saham + Ascendant 

Asha Saham (Saham for hope/anticipation). 

(a) Day : Saturn - Venus + Ascendant 

(b) Night : Venus - Saturn + Ascendant 

Samarthya Saham (Saham for capability). 

(a) Day : Mars - Lord of the Ascendant + Ascendant 
(b) Night : Lord of the Ascendant - Mars + Ascendant 
Bhratri Saham (Saham for siblings). 

Jupiter ~ Saturn + Ascendant 

(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 
Gaurava Saham (Saham for dignity). 

(a) Day : Sun - Moon + Jupiter 

(b) Night : Moon - Sun + Jupiter 

Pitri (or Taata) Saham (Saham for father). 

(a) Day : Saturn - Sun + Ascendant 

(b) Night : Sun - Saturn + Ascendant 


Raja Saham (Saham for kingship or royal dignity). Same as 
the Pitri Saham. 


Matri Saham (Saham for mother). 

(a) Day : Moon - Venus + Ascendant 

(b) Night : Venus - Moon + Ascendant 

Putra Saham (Saham for progeny). 

Jupiter - Moon + Ascendant 

(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 
Jeeva Saham (Saham for life). 

(a) Day : Saturn - Jupiter + Ascendant 

(b) Night : Jupiter - Saturn + Ascendant 


154 


16. Roga Saham (Saham for disease). 
Ascendant - Moon + Ascendant 
(Some for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


Note: According to another authority, Roga Saham is 
calculated thus: 


(a) Day : Saturn - Moon + Ascendant 
{b) Night : Moon - Saturn + Ascendant: 
We have found this latter giving better results. 
17. Karma Saham (Saham for profession). 
(a) Day : Mars - Mercury + Ascendant 
(b) Night : Mercury - Mars + Ascendant. 
18. Manmatha Saham (Saham for infatuation). 
(a) Day : Moon - Lord of Ascendant + Ascendant 
(b) Night : Lord of Ascendant - Moon + Ascendant 
19. Kali Saham (Saham for strife). 
(a) Day : Jupiter - Mars + Ascendant 
{b) Night : Mars - Jupiter + Ascendant 
20. Kshama Saham (Saham for forgiveness). Same as Kali 
Saham. 
21. Shastra Saham (Saham for scriptures). 
(a) Day : Jupiter - Saturn + Mercury 
(b) Night : Saturn - Jupiter + Mercury 
22. Bandhu Saham (Saham for relatives). 


Mercury - Moon + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well night Varshapravesha). 


23. Mrityu Saham (Saham for death). 
Mid-point of Eighth House - Moon + Saturn 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


24. Deshantara Saham (Saham for foreign travel; Saham for 
distant travel). 


25. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


30, 


31, 


32. 


33. 


155 


Mid-point of Ninth House - Ninth Lord + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


Artha (Dhana) Saham (Saham for Finance/wealth). 


Mid-point of Second House-Second Lord + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


Paradara Sahara (Saham for adultery). 


Venus - Sun + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well night Varshapravesha). 


Anya-Karma Saham (Saham for additional/alternate 
vocation). 


(a) Day : Moon - Saturn. + Ascendant 
(b) Night : Saturn - Moon + Ascendant 
Vanika Saham (Saham for trade). 


Moon ~ Mercury + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


Karya-Siddhi Saham (Saham for success in a venture). 
(a) Day : Saturn - Sun + Lord of Sun sign 

(b) Night : Saturn - Moon + Lord of Moon sign 
Vivaha Saham (Saham for marriage). 


Venus - Saturn + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


Prasava Saham (Saham for delivery of a child). 
(a) Day : Jupiter - Mercury + Ascendant 

(b} Night : Mercury - Jupiter + Ascendant 
Santaapa Saham (Saham for sorrow). 


Saturn - Moon + Mid-point of Sixth House 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


Shraddha Saham (Saham for devotion). 


Venus - Mars + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


156 


34. Preeti Saham (Szham for love). 


Vidya Saham - Punya Saham + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


35. Jadya Saham (Saham for stupidity). 
(a) Day : Mars - Saturn + Mercury 
(b) Night : Saturn - Mars + Mercury 


36. Vyapara Saham (Saham for business). Somewhat equivalent 
to the Vanika Saham, vide no. 28 supra. 


Mars - Mercury + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha. 


37. Paneeya-Paata Saham (Saham for falling in water/ drowning). 
(a) Day : Saturn - Moon + Ascendant 
(b} Night : Moon - Saturn + Ascendant 
38. Shatru Saham (Saham for enemies). 
(a) Day : Mars - Saturn + Ascendant 
(b) Night : Satum - Mars + Ascendant 
39. Jalapatha Saham (Saham for sea-voyage). 
(a) Day : Cancer 15° - Satum + Ascendant 
(b) Night : Satum - Cancer 15° + Ascendant 
40. Bandhana Saham (Saham for imprisonment). 
(a) Day : Punya Saham - Saturn + Ascendant 
(b) Night : Saturn - Punya Saham + Ascendant 
41. Labha Sahain (Saham for monetary gains). 


Mid-point of Eleventh House - Eleventh Lord + Ascendant 
(Same for day as well as night Varshapravesha). 


Note: One method of calculating a Saham for any of the twelve 
houses is: 


Mid-point of the House-Lord of the House + Ascendant 


157 


An Essential Consideration 


A Saham involves three different factors (let us call them a, b, 
and c). Any given Saham can be represented by the formula: 
a- be 

Here, see whether ‘c’ falls between ‘b’ and ‘a’. If it does, the 
value obtained by the formula ‘a - b + ¢’ indicates the Saham 
specified. If, however, ‘c’ does not fall between ‘b’ and ‘a’, then 
add one sign to the result obtained above (i.e.,a- b +c + 1°) 

That will provide the value of the Saham in question. 

Let us consider the Punya Saham (Saham no. 1) in the 
Example Chart (Chart X-1). Here, since the Varshapravesha is 
during day time, the Punya Saham is obtained by: 

Moon - Sun + Ascendant 
i.e., 19°40’ - 4°3°S0' + 7°9°26', or 4°15°16". 

Here, the ascendant falls between the Sun and the Moon 
when counted in the regular order in the annual chart. Therefore, 
the value obtained above, i.c., 415°16', represents the Punya 
Sahar. 

Let us now consider the Raja Saham (Saham no. 12) for the 
same native. Here, a - b + c is represented by: 

Saturn - Sun + Ascendant 
ie., 6117°13' - 4°3°S0' + 7°9°26', or 9122°49'. 

However, here, the ascendant (‘c’) does not fall between the 
Sun (‘b’) and Saturn (‘a’). Therefore, we add one sign to the value 
already obtained. The Raja Saham will, therefore, be 10°22°49", 


Sahams in the Birth Chart 


While the Sahams find their mention only in the Tajika texts 
and are generally applied only to the annual charts, their results 
cannot be appropriately analysed unless they are considered 
simultaneously in the birth chart. It is thus desirable that the 
various Sahams as mentioned above are calculated in the birth 
chart as well. During a given year, only those Sahams which are 
relevant to the native at that time need be considered and 
analysed in the background of similar Sahams in the birth chart. 
Only those Sahams which are strong in the birth chart can 
produce results during a given year when they are strong in the 
annual chart as well. There is generally little relevance in trying 


158 


to analyse those Sahams in the annual chart which are devoid 
of strength in the birth chart. 


The Strength of Sahams 


Having calculated the various Sahams, it is important to see how 
strong or weak they individually are. This is decided according 
to the following guidelines: 


1. A. Strong Saham: A Saham becomes strong when the 
following conditions obtain: 


(a) The Saham lord is exalted, or in its own house in the 
rashi chart as well as in the vargas, or is located in benefic 
houses or in those belonging to its friends; or 


(b) The Saham is associated with a friend or with a natural 
benefic, or with the year lord; or 


(c) The Saham lord aspects the Saham or conjoins it, or 
aspects the lagna. 


2. A weak Saham: A Saham becomes weak when the following 
conditions obtain: 


(a) The strength of the Saham lord is less than 5 units 
according to the Panchavargiya Bala; or 


(b) The Saham lord lacks strength according to the Harsha 
Bala; or 


(c) The Saham lord does not aspect the Saham nor does it 
conjoin the Saham; or 


(d) The Saham is associated with inimical planets or natural 
malefics. 


Note : 


{i) A strong and a weak Saham give benefic and harmful 
results respectively during the dasha of their lords. 


(ii) According to some, the Shatru, Roga, Kali, and Mrityu 
Sahams (i.c., Sahams for enemies, disease, strife, and 
death) are not good if they are strong. They are 
considered best when in debility. 


159 


(ili) A Saham located in the sixth, eighth or twelfth house 
is handicapped, and generally gives adverse results. 


(iv) A Saham related by conjunction or by Ithasala with its 
own eighth lord or with the eighth lord of the annual 
chart becomes weak. 


Special Significance of the Punya Saham 


A strong Punya Saham ensures general auspiciousness, and 
promotes the performance of virtuous deeds and acquisition of 
money during the year. With a weak Punya Saham, both weaith 
and virtue are at stake. The following points must be borne in 
mind when the results of the Punya Saham (as also of any of 
the beneficial Sahams) are being analysed. 


1. 


Punya Saham located in the sixth, the eighth or the twelfth 
house in annual chart causes loss of name, fame and wealth. 


Association or aspect of benefic planets brings in fortune and 
fame. The benefic results accrue mainly during the later half 
of the year. 


Malefic association or aspect produces its results mainly 
during the earlier half of the year. 


Benefic association or aspect on the Punya Saham located 
in the sixth, eighth or twelfth house may bring in some relief 
in the form of income and fame during the concluding part 
of the year. 


Malefic association and benefic aspect on the Punya Saham 
produces ill effects during the first half of the year, and 
beneficial results during the second half. 


Benefic association and malefic aspect brings in benefic 
results during the first half of the year, and malefic results 
during the second half. 


Association thus takes precedence over aspect. 


Malefic association and malefic aspect make the whole year 
adverse. Benefic association and aspect have the opposite 
influence. 


160 


7. The Punya Saham takes precedence over the rest of the 
Sahams. If the Punya Saham is extra-ordinarily strong, the 
other Sahams even in debility cannot produce any harm. 


A Punya Saham in debility neutralises any benefic effects that 
might be indicated by other Sahams is strength. 


8. It is essential to consider the Punya Saham (as also all the 
other Sahams) in the birth chart also. A Punya Saham in 
the sixth, eighth or twelfth house in birth chart, when 
ill-associated/ill-aspected in the annual chart, along with a 
weak Punya Saham lord, indicates loss of wealth and: virtue. 


9. Strong, well placed Punya Saham in the birth chart as well 
as the annual chart ensures wealth, success, and virtuous 
deeds. 


Examples of the Punya Saham 
Let us apply the Punya Saham to our native, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi. 


(a) Punya Saham in the Birth Chart (Chart X-2) 

Moon - Sun + Ascendant (for day birth). 

or 4°17°8' - 43°49" + 4°14°33' 

or 4'27°52' 

Since the ascendant (Leo 14°33’) falls between the Sun 
(Leo 3°49") and the Moon (Leo 17°8'), there is no need to add 
one sign to the value obtained above. The Punya Saham for birth 
is thus Leo 27°52’. 

This Punya Saham falls in the lagna of the native. It is 
associated with the lord of the Saham (i.e., the Sun) and with 
all the natural beriefics (viz., the Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and 
Venus). The Punya Saham is thus extremely strong in the birth 
chart. 


(b) Punya Saham for the Forty-first Year of the Native (Chart 
X-I). This refers to the Example Chart, and has been 


discussed under ‘An Essential Consideration’, vide supra. 


Once again, the Punya Saham (Leo 15°16’) is very strong 
here, being associated with its own lord as well as two benefits, 
Mercury and Venus, in the tenth house. The lord of the Punya 


161 


Saham, the Sun, is very strong and happens to be the year 
lord. It establishes Ithasala with the strong lagna lord, 
Mars, as well as with another strong benefic, Jupiter, the 
lord of the second and fifth houses. The Punya Saham is very 
strong here, and ensured success and status to the native 
throughout the year. 


(c) Punya Saham for the forty-sixth year (from August 1989 
onwards): See Chart X-3. The Varshapravesha being after 
sunset, the Punya Saham is obtained by 


Sun - Moon + Ascendant 

or 4°3°49" - 11°21°17' + 10°23°36', or 3°6°8'. 

Here, the ascendant does not fall between the Moon and the 
Sun. Therefore, we add one sign to the above value. The Punya 
Saham will thus be 46°8' (or Leo 6°8'} 

The Punya Saham here too is associated with its own lord 
as also with Mercury. It is, however, not as strong as in the earlier 
case, since it occurs in the seventh house, and both the Saham 
as well as its lord (the Sun) are associated with a malefic Mars, 
and are in the Rahu-Ketu axis. During this year, the native lost 
his prime- ministership following general elections though he did 
gain the humbler status of ‘the leader of the opposition’ in the 
Parliament, equivalent to the status of a cabinet minister. The 
mialefic associations of the Punya Saham ensured adverse results 


during the first half of the year. 


(d) Punya Saham for the Forty-seventh year (from August 1990 
onwards). See Chart X-9, under “The Yogas’. Once again 
here, the Varshapravesha occurred during the night. The 
Punya Saham (Sun - Moon + Ascendant) will thus be: 
4°3°50' - 4°8°2' + 2°7°15', or 2°3°3'. 

Here, the ascendant falls between the Moon and the Sun 
when the counting is done in the direct manner from the Moon 
onwards. No addition of one sign is, therefore, required. The 
Punya Saham for this year thus is 2°3°3' (or Gemini 3°3'). 

The Punya Saham is not too strong here. It is inimically 
aspected by the eighth lord Saturn. The lord of the Punya Saham 
receives the aspects of malefics, Mars and Saturn (the sixth and 


162 


eighth lords), and is associated with another malefic, the 
Sun. The Saham lord has an Ishrafa yoga with the eighth lord. 
There is no benefic aspect on it. The native lost his life during 
this year. 


Analysis of Sahams - Some More Hints 


1. The Karya-Siddhi Sabam associated with or aspected by 
benefics or in Ithasala with benefics ensures dominance over 
opponents and increase of name and fame. Malefic influences 
cause obstacles in undertakings. 


2. The Kalt Sabam associated with or aspected by benefics as 
well as malefics, and in Ithasala with malefics, leads to death 
following strife and quarrel. Purely benefic influences on this 
Saham ensure dominance over opponents. 


3. Marriage is likely when the Vivaha Saham is aspected by 
or associated with or in Ithasala with benefics. Influence 
of both malefics and benefics causes marriage through 
difficulty. When associated with malefics only, and in 
Ithasala with the eighth lord, it denies the native the chance 
of getting married, 


4. Lord of the Yasha Saham in the eighth house aspected by 
or associated with malefics deprives one of one’s long 
sustained dignity and status. If a malefic influencing such 
a Yasha Saham is combust, it leads to loss of dignity and 
respect accumulated and enjoyed by one’s ancestors also. 
Benefic influences, through association, aspect or Ithasala, 
on a well-placed Yasha Saham ensure name, fame, wealth 
and dignity. 

5. If the lord of the Roga Sabam is itself a malefic, and 1s 
associated with or aspected by malefics, it produces illness. 
In Ithasala with the eighth lord, it can lead to death. If the 
lord of the Roga Saham is very weak, along with the affliction 
mentioned above, the death is accompanied by much 
suffering. When associated with its own lord, influenced by 
benefics only, and not located in houses 6, 8, or 12, a Roga 
Saham ensures good health. 


6. 


163 


The Artha Saham ensures riches and wealth when well-placed, 
well-associated, and well-aspected. Contrarily, malefic 
influences lead to loss of accumulated wealth during the year. 


The Putra Saham under benefic influences ensures the 
birth of a son (or daughter) or an auspicious event (e.g., 
marriage) pertaining to an offspring. Maiefic influences 
on this Saham cause suffering through progeny, or suffering 
to progeny. 


Lord of the Putra Saham, if weak and in Ishrafa with a 
malefic, leads to separation from the offspring. If the lord 
of the Putra Saham is also the lord of the fifth house of the 
birth chart, and is associated with or aspected by benefics 
and friendly planets, it leads to the birth of a son. 


8. A Pitri Sabam under benefic influences enhances the dignity 


10. 


11. 


and the financial status of the father. A weak or combust 
lord of the Pitri Saham, when placed in the eighth house 
in the annual chart, and in Ithasala with a malefic, leads to 
harm (death!) to father. When such a Saham is in a movable 
sign, it causes death in a foreign land. In a fixed sign, the 
death occurs in one’s own country. When the lord of the Pitri 
Saham is in full strength and under the influence of benefics, 
it ensures royal favours and professional elevation for the 
native. 


. The Matri Sabam should also be analysed in the same manner 


as the Pitri Saham. Benefic influences on this Saham ensure 
happiness and good health to the mother. Adverse influences 
indicate the reverse. 


When the Bandhana Sabam is associated with or aspected by 
its own lord, it does not lead to imprisonment. When, 
however, malefics influence this Saham by association, aspect 
or Ithasala, the native gets imprisoned. 


The Gaurava Sabam, when under benefic influence, leads 
to varied comforts, material pleasures, new clothes, etc. 
Under malefic influence, it causes reversals in job and fall 
of status. 


164 


12. When the Karma Saham, lord of the Karma Saham, tenth 


13. 


house, and the lord of the tenth house are all strong, 
well-associated or well-aspected, and in Ithasala with 
benefics, there is gain in wealth, land, vehicle and status. Lord 
of the Karma Saham in Ithasala with malefics, especially 
Saturn, renders ali efforts fruitless during the year. 


As in the case of the Punya Saham, so also in the case of 
other Sahams, the results indicated by association take 
precedence over those indicated by aspect. Benefic association- 
malefic aspect thus produces good results during the first half 
of the year and adverse results during the second half. On 
the contrary, malefic association-benefic aspect produces 
adverse results during the first half of the year and benefic 
results during the second half. 


However, the Shatru (enemy), the Roga (disease) and the 
Mnityu (death) Sahams must be interpreted in the reverse 
manner. With these Sahams, malefic association-benefic 
aspect produces benefic results during the first half and 
malefic. results during the second half of the year. Similarly, 
benefic association-malefic aspect produces adverse results 
during the first half of the year and benefic results during 
the second half. 


14. Authorities on the Tajika Shastra have devised additional 


TS, 


Sahams for additional specific purposes. While Sahams 
constitute a brilliant area of the Tajika system, they do not 
give results consistently, and a lot of research is required to 
be done before they can be employed with infallible results. 
Besides, many of these have to be re-interpreted so as to give 
them a more modern meaning and ensure a flexible 
application. 


Tt will be noted that in the consideration of various Sahams, 
the Karkatva or the significatorship of planets holds sway. 


Some Illustrations 


1. 


The Example Chart (Chart X-1). The Punya Saham in the 


chart has already been discussed. 


In the earlier part of this chapter (under ‘An Essential 


Consideration’}, the Raja Saham (Saham no. 12; Saturn - Sun 


165 


+ Ascendant, for day Varshapravesha) for the native was 
calculated to be 10°22°49". Referring to this chart, we find that 
the Raja Saham falls in the fourth house. The lord of the Raja 
Saham, ie., Saturn, 1s exalted in the ninth house from the Raja 
Saham and is beneficially aspected by the year lord, the Sun, 
as well as by the benefics Mercury, Jupiter and Venus. Saturn 
ts the strongest planet in the annual chart according to the 
Panchavargiya Bala. The native attained the most powerful 
status, equivalent to the ruler, in a democratic set up during 
the year. 

Let us now consider the Matri Sahar {no. 13) in the same 
chart. The Matri Saham (Moon - Venus + Ascendant for 
day Varshapravesh) falls in Cancer (1°9°40" ~ 4'21°45' + 7°9°26' 
= 3°27°21'). The lord of this Saham, the Moon, though exalted 
in the seventh house, is very close to Rahu. It is also aspected 
by Mars, also fairly close in degrees. The native’s mother was shot 
dead by her own Sikh bodyguards. It may be noted here that 
the lord of the Matri Saham receives no friendly aspect 
from anywhere, and is particularly weak according to the 
Panchavargiya Bala. 

2. Fall from power: In Chart X-3 (again belonging to 
Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, for his forty-sixth year starting from August 
1989}, the Raja Saham (Sun - Saturn + Ascendant) falls in Libra 
(6°13°27') in the ninth house. The lord of the Saham is 
debilitated in the eighth house, in the twelfth from the Raja 
Saham, and in Poorna Ithasala with the sixth lord of the 
Saham. The Saham lord is relatively weak in the Pancha-vargiya 
Chart also. The native fell from power following elections 
during this year. 

In Chart XI-1, for the year starting from November 1976, 
the Raja Saham (Sun — Saturn + Ascendant) falls in the fourth 
house in Sagittarius (8°18°26'). Although there is a benefic 
ninth lord, Venus, posited in the fourth house, from the Raja 
Saham this Venus is the sixth lord. The lord of the Saham is 
retrograde, in the sixth from the Saham. Thus there is an 
exchange between the lord of the Raja Saham and its sixth 
lord. The only aspects on this Saham are those of the Moon 
{the eighth lord from this Saham), Rahu and Ketu. The lord 
of the Saham does not get involved in any useful yoga. The 


166 


[= fae 


Chart XI-1 
Nov. 20, 1976 


Lagna 07°36' Mars 05°39" Venus - 12°59" 
Sun 04°07" Mercury 11°14' Saturn 23°17" 
Moon 09°05' Jupiter (R) 02°23' Rahu 09°57" 


native fell from power during this year following the general 
elections in India. 

3. Chart VII-1 (page 81). The Vivaba Saham (Venus - Saturn 
+ Ascendant + 1°) falls in Cancer (3°13°24'). While the Saham 
is occupied by Ketu, its lord is in the lagna, with Jupiter, and 
in the seventh from Venus and Saturn. Venus is the Karaka for 
marriage a8 also the fifth lord, while Saturn is the seventh lord 
of the birth chart. The native got married during this year. With 
its Panchavargiya Bala of 12:28:15 units, the lord of the Vivaha 
Saham is the strongest of the office-bearers in the chart. It may 
be noted, however, that the Saham lord, the Moon, being a fast- 
moving planet, is just a little too far advanced so as to deny the 
native any useful Ithasala yoga. The marriage did not proceed 
the harmonious way that it should have. 

4, Chart X~11 (page 131). In this chart, the Putra Saham 
(Jupiter - Moon + Ascendant + 1°) falls in the eleventh house, 
in Gemini (2'22°54'). The lord of the Putra Saham establishes 
Ithasala with Jupiter, the Karaka for progeny. The native begot 
a son during this year. However, the lord of the Saham is in the 
sixth from the Saham, while Jupiter is in the twelfth house, in 
the RKA. 

The Vivaha Saham (Venus - Satum + Ascendant) for this year 
falls in Cancer (3'5°6'), in the twelfth house, too close to Ketu. 
Jupiter, the lord of the eighth house of the annual chart, is located 
here, establishing an Ishrafa yoga with the lord of the Saham, 


167 


the Moon. The Moon also establishes Ithasala with Sarurn, lord 
of the sixth house from the ascendant, and of the eighth house 
from the Vivaha Saham, located in the sixth house from the 
Saham. The native lost his wife during this year, and also had 
to part with his son. 

For the same native, the Punya Sabam (Sun - Moon + 
Ascendant + 1°) falls in Libra (6°3°50'). The Moon, the twelfth 
lord, is situated here, while the Saham lord is combust in the 
fourth house. The Punya Saham is weak. 

The Bandhana Saham (Saham no. 40; Saturn - Punya + 
Ascendant + 1') falls in Sagittarius (8°21°37') where the sixth lord 
of the annual chart and the eighth lord of the birth chart, Saturn, 
is situated, establishing Ithasala with the twelfth lord, the Moon; 
this Moon is the eighth lord from the Saham. The lord of the 
Bandhana Saham is in the twelfth house, in the eighth from the 
Saham, in the Rahu-Ketu axis. The native suffered imprisonment 
during this year. 

5. More about Bandana Sabam. In Chart X1-2, the Bandhana 
Saham falls in the second house, in Capricorn (9°24°35'). While 
the lord of the Saham is in the Saham itself, the lord of the eighth 
from the ascendant, the Moon, is also located there, establishing 
an Ithasala with the Saham lord. The lord of the Bandhana 
Saham is in Poorna Ithasala with the sixth lord of the annual 
chart placed in the twelfth house. The native suffered a brief spell 
- of imprisonment during this year. 


Lagna 19°20’ Mars 03°47 Venus 12°49 
Sun 21°14 Mercury g0"46° Saturn 12°40" 
Moon 03°07" Jupiter (R} 20°47 Rahu 16°06' 


168 


In the following year too, the native was imprisoned for 
some time. The Bandhana Saham in this chart (Chart XJ-3) 
falls in Scorpio (7°29°34'), in the eighth house, in the Rahu- 
Ketu axis. The lord of the Saham is retrograde, and in the 
eighth house from the Saham itself. Houses 6, 8, and 12, along 
with their lords, and malefic influences on them, indicated 
imprisonment. 

6. Foreign travel : In Chart XI-4, the Deshantara Saham 
(Mid-point of the Ninth House - Ninth Lord + Ascendant + . 
1°) falls in Sagittarius (8°18°19’) in the sixth house, with Ketu 


Lagna 


Chart XI-3 


January 5, 1993 


Lagna 17°06' Mars (R) 24°57" Venus 07°42" 
Sun 21°14' Mercury 10°23" Saturn 23°03" 
Moon 09°39" Jupiter 20°03" Rahu 27°38" 


Chart XI1-4 
April 10, 1982 
9QH=10°28°12" 


Mars (RH Sar {R) 
Keru R) 
jm | Pi te 


Lagna 03°55" Mars (R) 13°01" Venus 10°17' 
Sun 26°30 Mercury 24°57" Sanun (R} 25°13' 
Moon 13°25" Jupiter (R) 13°48" Raku 24°06' 


169 


in it. The lord of the Saham, Jupiter, is in the fourth house, in 
Poorna Ithasala with Mars. Here, Mars is the Yoga-karaka, being 
the lord of the fifth and the tenth house, and is also the lord 
of the fifth house as well as the twelfth house from the 
Deshantara Saham. The native left India for a middle east 
country during this year. 

7. Mrityu Saham. In Chart XI-5, the Mrityu Saham 
(Mid-point of Eighth House - Moon + Saturn + 1°) falls in 
Gemini (2°5°14'), in the seventh house. There is a lot of 
malefic influence on the eighth house from the Mrityu Saham, 
viz., that of Mars, Saturn, and Rahu. The lord of the eighth 
from the Mrityu Saham, Saturn in this case, is in the eighth 
house from the year lord, Jupiter. The native died after a 
surgical operation. 


pe ir 


March 28, 1990 


8H=4°2°13' 


18°17’ Venus 26°45' 
Sun 13°10' Mercury 22°04 Saturn 00°27" 
Moon 27°26' Jupiter 08°37" Rahu 21°30" 


In Chart X-9 (page 128), the mid-point of the-eighth house 
is 94°12". The Mrityx Saham falls in Taurus (1'22°0'), in the 
twelfth house with Mars, the sixth lord of the annual chart, 
in it. The eighth from the Mrityu Saham is occupied by Saturn 
which is the eighth lord of the annual chart and the sixth lord 
of the birth chart. The eighth lord from the Mrityu Saham is 
in the third house, in the Rahu-Ketu axis, and in Ishrafa with 
Venus which is the lord of the Saham as well as the sixth lord 
from it. The native met with a violent end. 


170 


A Note of Caution 


The Sahams are a highly remarkable feature of the annual 
horoscopy. They, however, are not the final word in themselves. 
They must be analysed along with the birth chart. The annual 
chart must also be analysed in respect of the yogas, the dashas, 
and other aspects already mentioned. Making a prognostication 
on the basis of the Sahams alone, without considering other 
relevant features in a horoscope, is doomed to failure. 

As has already been pointed out, the Sahams have not been 
sufficiently worked and researched on. Unless they are applied 
to thousands of annual charts, their analysis may not yield the 
required accuracy. 


CHAPTER XII 


ANALYSIS OF 
DIFFERENT HOUSES 


She wakes to action all wha repose in slumber. 
Some rise to labor for wealth, others to worship. 
Those who saw little before now see more clearly. 
Dawn raises to consciousness all living creatures. 


‘RIG VEDA’ 


Each house of the annual chart must be analysed first individually, 
and then jointly with other houses. The placement of planets in 
the various houses, their associations and aspects, the formation 
of various yogas in the chart, as also the relevant Sahams, must 
‘all be carefully analysed before reaching at any conclusion. It goes 
without saying that any conclusions must be arrived at only 
against the background of the promise already existing in the 
birth chart. 

The analysis of the annual chart deeply intermingles with that 
of the birth chart. Some of the factors that frequently require 
a joint attention are: 


(1) Placement of the birth ascendant in the annual chart. 


(2) The signs occupied by the different planets in the birth chart 
and their placement in the annual chart. 


(3) Position of the natal lagna lord in the annual chart. 


(4) Location of the Muntha as well as the Muntha lord in 
relation to the ascendant in the annual chart and the 
ascendant in the birth chart. 


(5) Recurrence of the birth ascendant as the ascendant in the 
annual chart. 


(6) The Sahams in the birth as well as the annual chart. 


172 


The Role of the Office-Bearers 


The five office-bearers in the annual chart have an important 
role to play. Their strength and weakness reflects the inherent 
strength and weakness of the annual chart. One of them, the 
Varshesha, as has already been pointed out, assumes almost the 
same significance as the lagna lord. Some of the results attributed 
to these office-bearers are as follows: 


(1) The Lagna Lord: When fully strong (strength above 10 units 
in the Panchavargiya chart), it ensures comforts, good health, 
wealth, and peace of mind. When of medium strength, it 
reduces the intensity of benefic results. When weaé, the 
whole year proves troublesome. 


(2) The Sun as one of the office-bearers, when weak, leads to 
skin diseases, itching, eye disease, along with lack of 
enthusiasm. 


(3) The Moon as one of the office-bearers, when weak, leads to 
impairment of vision, penury, subjugation, strife at home, and 
lack of mental peace. 


(4) Mars as one of the weak office-bearers leads to cowardice, 


and lack of stability in general. ' 


(5) Mercury as one of the weak office-bearers distorts one’s 
thinking as well as reasoning. 


(6) Jupiter as a weak office-bearer deviates one from the path 
of virtue. 


(7) Penus as an office-bearer, when weak, causes loss of mental 
peace, and strife with women. 


(8) Saturn as a weak office-bearer produces trouble from servants, 
and windy ailments. 


Thus, when any of the planets holding an office is weak, its 
significations suffer. On the other hand, when these planets are 
strong, the events and objects signified by them prosper. 


The Strength of a House 


A house prospers when it is: 


(i) associated with its own lord; or 


173 


(ii) aspected by its own lord; or 
(ii) associated with natural benefics; or 
(iv) aspected by natural benefics; or 


(v) under the association or aspect of the year lord, or the 
lagna lord, or a strong or exalted planet. 


On the other hand, the indications of a house suffer when 
it is: 

(i) under the influence (aspect/association) of malefics; or 

(ii) under the influence of weak or debilitated planets; or 


(iii) bereft of the influence of its own lord, or the lagna lord, 
of a strong planet. 


When both benefic and malefic influences operate on a 
particular house, mixed results are indicated. 

Some of the classical combinations in respect of the various 
houses shall now be discussed. Some overlap in the influence of 
one house over another is inevitable here. In addition, certain 
events of life which may extend beyond the domain of a particular 
house may have been discussed under one particular house for 
the sake of convenience. For example, combinations for child 
birth have been discussed under the fifth house, while those for 
marriage have been dealt with under the seventh house, even 
though all the combinations mentioned may not fall under the 
said house. 


THE FIRST HOUSE 


A strong lagna lord in the lagna or in a kendra or in a trikona 
ensures good health throughout, and dominance over opponents. 

The Moon, strong, in a Kamboola yoga involving the lagna 
lord is good for health and for peace of the mind. 

The lagna under the influence (association/aspect) of malefics, 
bereft of any benefic influence, leads to varied troubles, quarrels. 
with people, ill health, and unpalatable meals. 

When the lagna lord of the birth chart, the lagna lord of the 
annual chart, the Muntha lord, the lord of the eighth house of 
the annual chart, as well as the lord of the year, are all strong 


174 


and placed in houses other than 6, 8 or 12, the whole year passes 
in comfort, and is characterised by good health and access to 
wealth and fame. When they are weak. in houses 6, 8 or 12, and 
bereft of benefic influence, the whole year proves troublesome 
and may coincide with death in case an adverse dasha operates 
in the birth chart during the year. 

A strong benefic in the ascendant, aspected by the ascendant 
lord, also ensures good health and wealth. 

Jupiter as the lagna Jord located in the lagna ensures favours 
and honour from those in powers, and gain is wealth. 

A malefic, in a kendra in the birth chart, falling in the lagna 
in the annual chart, produces adverse results. 

A malefic, happening to be the lagna lord in the birth chart, 
casting inimical aspect on the jord of the year {or on the lord 
of the lagna of the annual chart) indicates illness. Any additional 
malefic influences may lead to troubles equivalent to death. 

When the sign falling in the erghth house of the annual 
chart is identical with the lagna in the birth chart, it indicates 
illness. . 


The Dwi-Janma Year (The year of second birth) : 


When the birth lagna recurs as the lagna in the annual chart, it 1s 
referred to as the Dwi-janma year. Such a year is generally adverse 
and leads to illness, disappointments, reversals, monetary loss, loss 
of name and fame, etc. The following points must be noted in 
this regard. 


(a) If the degree of the lagna in the annual chart is identical 
with that of the lagna at birth, the whole year proves 
troublesome. 


(b) If the birth nakshatra {i.e., the nakshatra occupied by the 
Moon in the birth chart) too recurs in the annual chart, along 
with the ascendant, and if the Moon and Jupiter are weak 
or in house 6 or 8, and under malefic influence, the year 
proves very bad. If the birth chart too shows an adverse dasha, 
the year may prove fatal. 


(c) The Moon in the sixth house and Jupiter in the eighth 
house, during a Dwi-janma year, may cause serious illness 
or death. 


i75 


(d) When the lord of the year, the lagna ford of the annual chart, 
and the Muntha Jord are strong, much of the blemish is taken 
out of the Dwi-janma year. 


(e) Much of the adverse influence of the Dwi-janma year is lost 
if Jupiter and the Moon are strong in the year chart, and if 
they are well placed. If Jupiter and the Moon fall in the sixth 
or the eighth house, adverse results are ensured. 


Some Additional Adverse Combinations 


Placement of the lagna lord in the eighth house of the annual 
chart, aspected by Mars, causes injury by weapon, or accidents. 

The lagna lord, the lord of the eighth house, and the Muntha 
together in the fourth, eighth or twelfth house may lead to 
death. 

When the lagna lord and the Muntha lord are combust and 
under inimical aspect of Saturn, there occur numerous calamities, 
ill health and even death. 

The lord of the year establishing Ishrafa yoga with natural 
malefics causes illness. 

Debilitated Jupiter and Venus, in inimical Navamshas, deprive 
the native of all comforts during the year. If in addition there 
is an exchange of the lagna lord with the eighth lord, there may 
ensue death. 

When the sign falling in the eighth house of the birth chart 
becomes the lagna in the annual chart, it leads to ill health. 

A direct planet in the twelfth from the lagna and a retrograde 
planet in the second house causes illness. Such a situation arising 
in relation to the year lord, or the lagna lord of the birth chart, 
or the lagna lord of the annual chart, can lead to imprisonment, 
if the birth chart too indicates this. 

The Moon in houses 4, 6, 7, 8 and 12 from the lagna in the 
annual chart is also considered adverse for health. 

No benefit can accrue from the year lord Mercury which is 
conjoined or aspected by malefics. Combust Mercury as the year 
lord becomes an obstacle in intellectual pursuits. 

Jupiter as the lord of ‘the year, conjoined or aspected by 
malefics, placed in the lagna, leads to loss of wealth, and 
displeasure of those in power. 


176 


Cancellation of Adverse Influences 


No adverse effects should be pronounced unless factors causing 
their cancellation are also taken into consideration. Some of such 
relieving factors are being mentioned hereunder. 


— A strong lagna lord under benefic influences (aspect/ 
association) in a kendra or a trikona (ie., houses 1, 4, 7, 
10, 5, 9}. 


- A strong Jupiter under benefic influence, bereft of malefic 
influence, in a kendra or a trikona. 


— Jupiter and the seventh lord under benefic influence, bereft 
of malefic influence. 


— Malefics in houses 3, 6 and 11, and benefics in the kendras 
or trikonas. 


— Strong lords of the Muntha, the birth ascendant and the 
annual ascendant, in kendras, trikonas, the second house or 
the eleventh house. 


— Exalted Jupiter, Venus and Saturn establishing Ithasala with 
benefics. 


Chart X-7 has Leo ascendant which is the same as that at 
birth. There is thus a recurrence of the birth lagna in the annual 
chart. The Muntha is located in the eighth house, the worst house 
for the Muntha. The ascendant is occupied by a retrograde eighth 
lord. The lagna lord is located in the sixth house along with the - 
sixth lord Saturn. A Bhavishyat Ithasala occurs between the tenth 
lord Venus and a retrograde eighth lord Jupiter; from the Muntha 
too, Jupiter and Venus happen to be the tenth and the eighth 
lords. The native had every thing going wrong for him during 
the year. He had to quit his job (the tenth lord-eighth lord link) 
under compulsion, and narrowly escaped arrest. Twice during the 
year, he lost all his possessions due to thefts at his residence. His 
health too suffered during this year. 

The above chart may be suitably compared with Chart 
X-12. Here again, the sign Leo rises with a retrograde eighth 
lord, Jupiter, located in the lagna. The birth lagna happens to 
be Pisces which coincides with the eighth house of the annual 


177 


chart. The Muntha in Sagittarius is in the Rahu-Ketu axis while 
its lord Jupiter is retrograde, and located in the sixth house from 
the birth lagna. The sixth lord is with the fourth lord Mars in 
the sixth house indicating losses, thefts, accidents, domestic strife. 
The owner of this chart happens to be the wife of the native 
referred to in Chart X-7. She too underwent a lot of suffering 
along with her husband. These charts show that similar destinies 
tend to run in families. 

Chart XII-1 belongs to the late Mrs. Indira Gandhi, the 
former Prime Minister of India, for her sixty-seventh year, the 
year of her death, commencing on November 20, 1983. The 
adverse factors in this chart may be listed as under: 


Chart XII-1 
Sun Mer Mars 
Pies) 
Lagna 0156' Mars 07°41" Venus 18°29 
Sun 04°07" Mercury 16°00' Saturn 16°03! 
Moon 05°51’ Jupiter 22°58" Rahu 22°21' 


1. Recurrence of the birth lagna Cancer. 
The lagna lord in the Rahu-Ketu axis. 
No benefic in kendras, and the only planet posited in a kendra 
is the malefic Saturn which is the lord of the seventh as well 
as the eighth house. 

4, The Muntha is in the adverse seventh. 
The Muntha Lord is in the adverse fourth. 
Saturn is also the lord of the year. The significance of the 


year lord, as already indicated, is no less than that of the 
ascendant lord. From such a Saturn, the Moon, which is the 


178 


lagna lord of the annual chart as well as the birth chart, is 
located in the eighth house in association with Rahu. 


7. The year lord is placed between malefcs. In the twelfth from 
it is Mars while in the second house are the Sun and (a 
retrograde) Ketu. 


The native was assassinated by her own body guards. There 
is affliction to the ascendant, to the ascendant lord, to the year 
lord and to the Moon, along with an adverse location of the 
Muntha and the Muntha Jord. When the lagna in the birth chart 
recurs in the annual chart, all adverse influences in the chart seem 
to become manifold. 

Chart XII-2 shows another example of the recurrence of the 
birth ascendant in the annual chart, with Ketu in it. The 
ascendant in the annual chart is within one degree of the 
birth ascendant. The Muntha is in the fourth house. The 
ascendant lord is retrograde, and in ‘Ithasala’ with another 
retrograde planet, which is also the eighth lord, the two being 
barely one degree apart. The yoga involves houses 5 and 11. 
Right at the commencement of the year, the native was found 
to have developed an endocrine disorder which requires 
prolonged treatment. The year also started with 2a febrile illness, 
later diagnosed as typhoid. The eighth lord in the fifth, 
retrograde, also causes illness to the offspring. However, the 
tenth lord is in the tenth house, and the Ithasala already 


Chart XII-2 
April 10, 1993 


Moon Jupiter 
Rahu {R) 


Lagna 02°41' Mars 28°13 Venus (KR) 13°05" 
Sun 26°28 Mercury 29°10" Sarurn 03°40" 
Moon 11°37" Jupiter (R) 14°41" Rahu 19°41' 


179 


mentioned also happens to be between an exalted lagna lord 
and the eleventh lord, involving houses 5 and 11. The 
native got a promotion in her job along with the consequent 
monetary benefits. 


THE SECOND HOUSE 


Jupiter is the significator for wealth. If Jupiter is strong and 
favourable, the second house prospers and inflow of wealth is 
ensured. 

Jupiter as the second lord of the birth chart, falling in the 
second house of the annual chart and establishing Ithasala with 
the lagna lord, ensures flow of money during the year. Such a 
Jupiter, if in Ishrafa with planets other than the lagna lord, causes 
loss of wealth. 

When Jupiter in the annual chart beneficially aspects the 
second house of birth chart, and the year lord is also strong, it 
ensures inflow of money without much effort. 

Strong Mercury as the year lord in the second house, when 
well-aspected, ensures earnings through writing and intellectual 
pursuits. 

Benefics in the birth lagna falling in the second house of the 
annual chart ensure good earnings during the year. : 

The Sun in the lagna in the birth chart, failing in the second 
house in the annual chart, ensures acquisition of wealth. Saturn 
in a similar situation causes failures in undertakings. 

Jupiter in the second house in the birth chart, becoming the 
year lord in the annual chart, ensures benefits accruing from the 
house that it inhabits in the annual chart. 

Mercury, Jupiter and Venus in the second house or in the 
Dhana Saham ensure income and wealth during the year. A 
strong lord of the second house, aspecting the second house of 
the birth chart or of the annual chart, ensures acquisition of 
wealth. When weak, it leads to loss of money. 

When the second lord as well as the occupants of the second 
house in the birth chart are weak or combust in the annual chart, 
there is loss of accumulated wealth. 

A movable sign rising in the lagna associated with or aspected 
by malefics leads to loss of money. 


180 


Jupiter in the second or the eighth house, associated with 
malefics leads to danger of punishment. 


THE THIRD HOUSE 


A strong Jupiter in the third house, or the third lord in Ithasala 
with Jupiter, indicates comforts from brothers and increase of 
valour. 

The third lord in the third house in Ithasala with the lagna 
lord leads to harmony with brothers. 

Harmonious relations with the siblings also result when there 
is benefic aspect on the third house, with Mars in the third house 
identical with Capricorn or Aquarius, or Mercury in the third 
house identical with Aries or Scorpio. 

Strong Mercury or Venus as the lagna lord, in the birth chart 
or the annual! chart, located in the third house of the annual chart, 
also ensure harmony with brothers and relatives. 

Strong Venus in Cancer in the third house, and being one 
of the office-bearers, ensures the birth of a sibling. 

The Sun or Venus as the year lord, bereft of malefic influence, 
ensure comforts from brothers and sisters. When weak or under 
malefic influence, there is trouble from siblings. 

Strife with siblings results when (a) the third lord is also the 
lord of the year, and is combust; or (b) there is weak Jupiter in 
the third house; or (c) the Moon and Mars, bereft of Jupiter's 
influence, are located in the third house; or (d) the third lord 
is in the third house in Ishrafa with malefics. 

The third lord in Ishrafa with the lord of the year causes 
iliness, and conflicts with siblings and relatives. 

Saturn in the third house identical with Aries or Scorpio leads 
to illness of the native or his brother. 

Mars in the third house identical with Gemini or Virgo also 
leads to the brother's illness. 

The lagna lord and the third lord together in the seventh 
house lead to trouble from brothers. 

Bhratri Saham afflicted by malefics, or with its lord combust, 
proves harmful to the brother during the year. 

Lord of the Bhratri Saham in house 6, 8 or 12, weak, combust 


181 


or retrograde, leads to affliction to the siblings. 
Exchange between the third Jord and the sixth lord causes 
open conflict with the siblings. 


THE FOURTH HOUSE 


The presence of the fourth lord in the fourth house is good for 
both the mother and the father of the native. 

A weak fourth lord in the birth chart as well as the annual 
chart promises no comforts to the parents. 

Afflicted Sun in the fourth house causes affliction to the 
father. 

Afflicted Moon in the fourth house causes affliction to the 
mother. : 

The Sun and the Moon together in the fourth house cause 
affliction to both parents. 

When Saturn and Mars, bereft of benefic influence, are 
located in the annual chart in a sign identical with the fourth 
house of the birth chart, or the sign occupied by the fourth lord 
of the birth chart, there occurs trouble to both mother and father. 

Location of the Matri Saham or the Pitri Saham in the fourth 
house is beneficial for both the mother and the father. 

Lord of the Matri Saham or the Pitri Saham in Ithasala with 
the lagna lord also proves good for the mother and the father. 
Combust and afflicted lord of the Matri Saham in the annual 
chart leads to separation from the parents. 

When che Matri Saham or the Pitri Saham is afflicted in the 
fourth house from the Murtha, there is separation from (or loss 
of!) parents. 

Lords of the Matri Saham and the Pitri Saham in Ithasala 
with malefics cause trouble to parents, When, instead, there is 
Ishrafa with inimical planets, it is still worse and causes fear to 
mother and father. 

The Moon in the same sign as in the birth chart leads to 
affliction to the mother. 

Saturn conjunct the Sun causes disgrace and opposition at the 
hands of the father. 

Saturn on the Moon's natal sign leads to strife with the mother. 
When it is on the Sun's natal sign, there is strife with the father. 


182 


THE FIFTH HOUSE 


The fifth house primarily deals with progeny. Combinations 
indicating child birth generally result in auspicious or favourable 
events pertaining to children when the birth of children is not 
relevant to the native. 

Jupiter's natal sign identical with the fifth house of the annual 
chart, and occupied by the year lord Mars or Mercury, indicates 
the birth of a son. 

Jupiter as the year lord in the fifth house or the eleventh house 
ensures the birth of a son and comforts from children. The Sun, 
Mars or Mercury as the year lord in these houses also give 
progeny. Afflicted Mars or Saturn, or a weak Moon in these 
houses produce adverse results. 

Jupiter's natdl sign falling in the lagna in the annual chart 
indicates the birth of a son. Same result is obtained when the 
natal sign of Venus or Mercury falls in the ascendant of the 
annual chart. The natal sign of Saturn or Mars falling in the 
lagna or the fifth house of the annual chart indicates affliction 
to progeny. 

The birth of a son is also indicated when (a) a strong lagna 
lord and fifth lord conjoin in the fifth house; or (b) an exalted 
Moon, Jupiter or Venus is located in the fifth house; or (c) a 
strong Venus as the fifth lord in the birth chart falls in the 
fifth house of the annual chart and establishes Ithasala with the 
lagna lord. 

Jupiter as lord of the Putra Saham, located in the fifth house, 
indicates the birth of a son. 

When the fifth lord or the Putra Saham are strong, or when 
the Putra Saham is located in the fifth house, a son 1s born, Punya 
Saham, associated with or aspected by benefics, falling in the fifth 
house, ensures the birth of a son. 

When Jupiter, the karaka for progeny, is afflicted, there occur 
worries in relation to one’s offspring. 

Affliction to one’s son occurs if the sign of natal Saturn falls 
in the fifth house and is imimically aspected by a malefic. 
Retrograde Mars in the fifth house indicates the death of a son. 

Benefic influences on the fifth house or the fifth lord, and 
a strong fifth lord, promote the events indicated by the fifth 


183 


house; the reverse holds true when there is affliction to fifth house 
or the fifth lord. 

Combinations that promise welfare of progeny also ensure 
favourable results pertaining to the other significations of to the 
fifth house. 

In Chart XII-3, the lagna ford, the Sun, is in Ithasala with 
the fifth lord Jupiter, involving houses 2 and i1. The native 
begot a child during this year. Seeing from the Muntha also, 
the fifth lord Jupiter is in Ithasala with the Muntha lord Mars, 
the houses involved being the eighth and the eleventh here. The 
presence of the sixth lord Saturn in the fifth house also does 
not speak well of the health of the new born. It may be noted 
that there is a recurrence of the birth ascendant in the annual 
chart, the ascendant degree also falling on exact degree of the 
natal ascendant. The lagna lord is within one degree of the sixth 
lord forming an Ithasala. The Muntha in the fourth house is 
of no help. Since no office-bearer aspects the lagna, the Muntha 
lord assumes the year lordship. The Muntha lord, however, is 
deeply combust and in Poorna Ithasala with the 6th lord Saturn. 
The native suffered ill health throughout the year and had several 
obstacles coming his way. 


Sun Mon Mar 
Mer (R) 


Chart XII-3 
Oct. 1, 1989 
un 
Saturn |Muntha! Venus Moon 
Mars 
Mer (R) 
Lagna 24°04' Mars 13°41' Venus 27°35" 
Sun 14°03" Mercury (R) 02°48' Saturn 13°54 
Meéon 25°39' Jupiter 15°53‘ Rahu 01°24! 


In Chart XIH-4, there is an Ithasala between the lagna lord, 
the Moon, located in the tenth house conjoined with the 
éleventh lord Venus, and the fifth lord Mars located in the sixth 


184 


Jupiter 


Chart XII-4 
April 10, 1986 


Lagna 11°43' Mars 12°45' Venus - 16°09" 
Sun 26°28" Mercury 29°09" Saturn (R} 15°39" 
Moon 08°03’ Jupiter 17°34' Rahu 06°24" 


house. The native gave birth to a daughter during this year. It 
was, however, a pregnancy marked by multiple ailments like 
injury from a roadside accident, premature uterine contractions, 
urinary tract infection and low weight gain. Mars, the fifth lord, 
is in the adverse sixth house while the eighth lord, Saturn, 
retrograde, is located in the fifth house and bereft of any bencfic 
influence. 


THE SIXTH HOUSE 


When Saturn happens to be the year lord, located in the sixth 
house, retrograde, and associated with malefics, it produces varied 
ailments like abdominal pain, fever, eye disease, etc, Other planets 
too, afflicted similarly, cause illness. 

The birth lagna, being a sign owned by Venus, falling in 
the sixth house in the annual chart, occupied by the Sun, 
and the Roga Saham being associated with malefics, causes 
disease arising from indulgence in sex (or disease involving 
sex organs!). 

A weak and afflicted lord of the birth ascendant and lord of 
the Muntha located in the sixth house in the annual chart causes 
varied ailments during the year. 

Mars happening to be the sixth lord in the birth chart, and 
falling in the sixth house of the annual chart, leads to ill health. 
If such a Mars ts in Ithasala with a malefic, it could lead to a 
serious disease. 


185 


The lagna lord or the lord of the year in Ithasala with the 
sixth lord leads to illness as determined by the nature of the sixth 
lord (refer to Chart XII-3, vide supra). 

A benefic in its own sign in the sixth house leads to illness 
caused by one’s wife. (According to some, this indicates 
acquisition of a wife). 

Placement of the sixth lord in the lagna generates enemies 
and opponents during the year. ° 

The sixth lord located in the fifth house, or the fifth lord 
in the sixth house, causes affliction to progeny. 

Placement of the ninth lord in the sixth house causes troubles 
in transit. 

Chart XII-5 belongs to a patient suffering from chronic 
myeloid leukemia, for his thirtieth year commencing from 
November 25, 1988. The birth ascendant (Virgo) falls in the 
eighth house of the annual chart. The lagna lord, Saturn, is in 
Ithasala with the sixth lord, the Moon, in the fifth house. The 
lagna is involved in the Rahu-Ketu axis. The lagna lord is in 
Ishrafa with Mars which is in Ithasala with Mercury, the eighth 
lord of the annual chart. The lagna lord, Saturn, thus establishes 
a direct link with the sixth lord, the Moon, and an indirect link, 
through Mars, with the eighth lord, Mercury. Mars, the eighth 
lord of the birth chart, is also indicative of bone marrow, the 
“factory” that synthesises blood in the body and is primarily at 


Mars Jupiter Moon 
| (R) 
_ 
Raho | ohart XII-S 


Nav. 25, 1988 


Lagna 13°48" Mars 10°53' Venus 08°28" 
Sun 10°04" Mercury 06°09" Saturn 07°38" 
Moon 00°53" Jupiter (R) 06°s¢ Rahu 16°20' 


186 


fault in case of leukemia. The native died of leukemia (blood 
cancer) in February 1989. 


Some Other Indications for Ill Health 
— The Sun, afflicted in the twelfth house, causes eye disease. 


— The rashi of natal Saturn falling in the lagna of the annual 


chart, and under inimical aspect from Saturn, leads to death. 


~ The rashi of natal Mars falling in the lagna in the annual 
chart, with inimical aspect from Mars, causes inflammatory 
disease, and fear from fire (burns!). 


- A malefic occupying a kendra in the birth chart, located in 
the lagna in the annual chart, leads to ill health. 


- When the Sun is associated with Mercury or Ketu, and is 
in Ithasala with Mars, the whole year is spent in illness. 


— Iliness also results when the Muntha, the Muntha lord, the 
lagna and the lagna lord, are hemmed between malefics. 


— When Mercury and Venus are weak in the birth chart and 
are associated with Ketu in the annual chart, again the whole 
year is characterised by ill health. 


Note : Benefic aspects on the sixth house relieve affliction. 


THE SEVENTH HOUSE 


The Seventh house primarily deals with marriage and sexual life 
of the native. Combinations which indicate marriage in a chart 
generally indicate marital harmony in the case of a married 
individual, or even extra-marital relations. 

A strong Venus as the year lord in the fifth house ensures 
comforts from the wife. If such a Venus is aspected by Mars, 
which also happens to be one of the Panchadhikaris, it enhances 
mutual love between the native and his wife. 

Venus as the year lord located in the seventh house (a) when 
aspected by Mercury, causes association with a young women; 
(b) when aspected by Saturn, leads to association with an older 
women; and {c) when aspected by Jupiter, ensures progeny from 
one’s (legitimate) wife. 


187 


The lagna lord of the birth chart when strong and located 
in the seventh house of the annual chart ensures comforts from 
women, 

The lagna lord of the birth chart together with the lagna lord 
of the annual chart, located in the seventh house of the annual 
chart, again ensures favours from women. 

Venus in the Hudda of Jupiter, and aspected by Mars, leads 
to excessive mutual attraction between man and wife. Affliction 
to wife occurs when the lord of the Vivaha Saham and the lord 
of the seventh house of the annual chart are under malefic aspect 
or association. 

A weak Moon in the sign of natal Venus promises little 
comfort from one’s wife. 

Troubles arise from wife and children when the Muntha is 
located in the seventh house in association with the Sun and 
Mars. 

The Moon, exalted or in its own sign (Cancer), in the seventh 
house from the Muntha, indicates foreign travel. 


Combinations for Marriage 


+ The rashi of natal Venus falling in the seventh house, with 
Venus being the year lord. 


— The lagna lord in Ithasala with the seventh lord. 


- Avstrong Mars in the natal rashi of Venus proves auspicious 
and ensures marriage. 


— Jupiter in the natal rashi of Venus, in a kendra or a trikona. 


— The Muntha in the house of any of the five office-bearers, 
aspected by Jupiter. 


— Venus as seventh lord in the birth chart, happening to be 
the strong seventh lord in the annual chart, in Ithasala with 
the lagna lord. 


- Mars as the year lord aspected by Venus. 

— Venus as the year lord aspected by Mars. 

— Vivaha Saham aspected by Venus and Mars, 

— The seventh lord of the birth chart, the Muntha lord of the 


188 


annual chart, as well as the lord of the year, together located 
in the seventh or the tenth house. 


— The seventh lord of the birth chart happening to be the lord 
of the Vivaha Saham. 


— A strong fifth lord in the seventh house. 
— Jupiter associated with the Muntha or the Muntha lord. 


Marriage, along with excessive sexual indulgence, results from 
the following combinations: 


— Lord of the seventh house in the birth chart related, by 
association, aspect or Ithasala, to Venus which happens to 
be the year lord. 


— Lord of the Hudda of the ascendant in the annual chart, 
in the rashi of natal Venus, and located in a kendra or a 
trikona. 


— Lord of the Vivaha Saham in the rashi of the natal Venus, 
and located in a kendra or a trikona. 


In Chart XII-6, there is an Ithasala between the lagna lord 
Saturn and the seventh lord, the Sun. The Vivaha Saham 
(Taurus 21°31') is beneficially aspected by Venus and Mars. The 
seventh lord of the birth chart (Aries ascendant) happens to be 
the lord of the Vivaha Saham in the annual chart. The Hudda 


Chart XII-6 


Jan. 17, 1986 


Lagna 29°35" Mars 26°42 Venus 05°01" 
Sun 03°06" Mercury 23°41’ Saturn 13°05" 
Moon 24°56! Jupiter 28°09" Rahu 131 


189 


lord of the ascendant (Saturn in this case) is in Scorpio which 
is the sign occupied by Venus in the birth chart, and is 
located in a kendra (tenth house). The native got married during 
this year. 

The native of Chart XII-7 got married in February 1991. 
The annual chart shows Jupiter located in Cancer, which is the 
rashi of Venus in the birth chart, in the ninth house (a trikona). 
The Muntha is located in the sign identical with the birth 
ascendant, aspected by Jupiter. Here, Jupiter is in Poorna 
Ithasala with the seventh lord as well as the Muntha lord. The 
Iudda lord of the ascendant (Jupiter in this case) is in the rashi 
of natal Venus (Cancer), and is located in the ninth house 


(a trikona). 
Lagna 


Chart XII-7 8 


August 12, 1990 


va 
ee Va Oa 


Lagna 19°52" Mars 25°50" Venus 04°24" 
Sun 25°41' Mercury 23°02" Saturn (R) 26°18" 
Moon 08°46' Jupiter 05°00" Rahu 13°30" 


THE EIGHTH HOUSE 


Jupiter as the lord of the year located in the second or the eighth 
house, aspected by matefics, causes loss of wealth. 

Mars in the eighth house causes fear from fire or weapon or 
from the ruler. 

Mars in the eighth house in the signs Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 
or Taurus causes injury from a sword. When this Mars is 
associated with the lagna lord and the lord of the eighth house, 
it leads to death. 

The Sun and Mars in the eighth house result in fall from 
a height. 


190 


The Sun, Mars and Saturn located in the eighth or the tenth 
house lead to a fall from a vehicle. 


Combinations for Death 


The following combinations indicate death if there is a maraka 
dasha operating in the birth chart. When the birth chart does 
not indicate serious affliction, these combinations generally lead 


to ill health. 
- The Sun, Mars and Mercury in the eighth house. 


— The year lord associated with Mars and located in the eighth 
house: death or death-like trouble. 


— The lord of the Punya Saham in the eighth house from the 
Saham, aspected by malefics. 


- Punya Saham in the annual chart, falling in a sign coinciding 
with the eighth house of the birth chart, and tl-associated 
or ill-aspected. 


— Punya Saham and its lord in the eighth house of the birth 
chart or of the annual chart. 


- Punya Saham afflicted by malefics, and. the eighth lord of 
the annual chart located in the sixth, eighth or the twelfth 
house. 


— The lagna lord, the Muntha lord and the year lord, being 
also the lord of the eighth, or in Ithasala with the lord of 
the eighth, in the presence of a maraka dasha in the birth 
chart. 


- A malefic in the birth lagna, falling in the eighth house of 
the annual chart. When a debilitated Mars aspects it, the 
result is a suicide. 


— Saturn in the eighth house in Ithasala with the eighth lord. 
When there is Ithasala with benefics, the affliction gets 
cancelled. 


—- Saturn being the eighth lord in the birth chart, in Ithasala 
with the lagna lord of the annual chart involving a hostile 
aspect: immediate death. 


191 


— The lagna lord of the birth chart and the lagna lord of the 
annual chart together falling in the eighth house of the 
annual chart. 


— A-combust birth lagna lord in the eighth house of the annual 
chart: illness and fear from opponents. 


~ The year lord with the Moon and Mars in the sixth, eighth 
or twelfth house : troubles equivalent to death. 


— The lagna ford in Ithasala with the eighth lord: some 
affliction though not necessarily death. 


— The lord of the eighth house of the Shatru Saham in the 
eighth house of the birth chart or the annual chart. 


The lord of the eighth house of the Mrityu Saham in the 
eighth house of the birth chart or the annual chart. 

In Chart XII-8, the Moon, occupant of the eighth house of 
the birth chart, is located in the lagna. The Punya Saham falls 
in Scorpio (7°29°33'), occupied by the Sun, the lord of the eighth 
house of the birth chart. The lord of the Punya Saham, Mars, 
is located in Leo, coinciding with the eighth house of the birth 
chart, and is in Rahu-Ketu axis. The Mrityu Saham falls in Aries 
(02°47). Its eighth lord, Mars, is in the eighth house from the 
birth lagna (Capricom), The Muntha and the Muntha lord are 
also not favourably placed. The native died in a plane crash. 


Chart XII-8 


Dec. 14, 1979 


Lagna 09°59" Mars 16°12 Venus 25°19 
Sun 27°26 Mercury 09°06' Saturn 02°57 
Moon 07°52" Jupiter 16°26 Rahu 08°26 


192 


Combinations for Suicide 


The birth lagna lord, with a malefic, in the eighth house of 
the annual chart. 


The Muntha with Satum, aspected by the fourth or the 
seventh aspect of Mars. Aspect of a debilitated Mars also has 
the same effect, 


Saturn in the eighth house in Ithasala with the eighth lord. 


Quarrels 


The Lagna lord weak, combust and ill-associated : quarrels 
with women. 


Jupiter in the eighth house, not holding any of the five 
portfolios. 

Mars as the year lord, afflicted : quarrels with relatives as well 
as opponents. 


The birth lagna falling in the eighth house of the annual 
chart, afflicted by a malefic: disease, strife. 


Afflicted Saturn in the seventh house: quarrels, false 
allegations, loss of fame and dignity. 


Death or Disease 


A weak Mars happening to be the year lord, and afflicted 
by malefics : injury by a metallic object. 


Afflicted Mars in fiery signs : injury from fire. 


Afflicted Mars in Gemini, Virgo, Libra or the first half of 
Sagittarius : death resulting from an encounter with thieves 
or dacoits. When this same Mars happens to be the year lord 
and falls in the tenth house, there is fear from thieves or from 
the ruler. 


Afflicted Mars as the year lord in the fourth house : troubles 
arising from parents, or from maternal/paternal uncles. 


The Sun having Ishrafa with Venus ia the dirth chart, also 
being one of the office-bearers in the annual chart and located 
in a kendra : illness; fall from status. 


193 


— Mercury in a sign of Mars in the birth chart, being one of 
the office-bearers in the annual chart : ilIness. When this 
Mercury receives inimical aspect of Mars, there is disease 
involving’ blood. When it is combust, and afflicted by 
malefics, there is death or imprisonment in a foreign sand. 


— The Moon in the rashi of natal Mars, and being one of the 
office-bearers : illness; secret troubles from the superiors. 


— Ill-associated Mercury in Ithasala with Mars, involving a 
hostile aspect : death. 


~ Mars in the tenth house, afflicted : fall from a quadruped; 
blood disorder. 


— Afflicted Saturn in the tenth house : injury from a metallic 
object. 


— A strong Saturn in the tenth house : fear or troubles from 
the wife, 


— Mrityu Saham being weak : death-like troubles. 


- Punya Saham and the Moon in the lagna, and malefics in 
the seventh house; death. 


— A malefic each in the second house and the twelfth house : 
death. 


THE NINTH HOUSE 


Mars as the strong year lord, bereft of ill association or aspect, 
in the third or the ninth house, ensures a comfortable journey. 
A weak Mars in the ninth house indicates distant travel along 
with one’s near and dear ones. A strong Mars in the ninth from 
Jupiter leads to a beneficial or auspicious journey. 

The Sun as the year lord, located in the third or the ninth 
house, and involved in a Kamboola yoga with a strong Moon, 
causes a comfortable journey according to one’s own desire. When 
this Sun is bereft of any ‘office’, it causes foreign journey with 
the help of someone. 

Venus as the year lord in the third or the ninth house indicates 
a comfortable journey. When this Venus is combust or retrograde, 
journey is uncomfortable. 


194 


An unafflicted Mercury as the year lord in the third or the 
ninth house causes journey to auspicious places, pilgrimages, etc. 
When this Mercury is afflicted, the journey is painful. 

Jupiter as the year lord, unafflicted, in the third or the ninth 
house: pilgrimages. : 

Weak and afflicted Jupiter and Venus in the third or the ninth 
house lead to an inauspicious journey. 

A planet in the ninth house and in Ithasala with the lagna 
lord ; unplanned journey. 

The lagna lord in Ithasala with the ninth lord: journey. 

The lagna lord/the year lord in Ithasala with the year lord/ 
the Muntha lord indicates journey. 

Saturn, bereft of office, in the ninth house : uncomfortable 
journey associated with loss or theft. 

Jupiter bereft of office, in the ninth house: distant travel; 
increase in name and fame. 

The Moon or Jupiter in the ninth house in the rashi of natal 
Saturn : prolonged journey. 

The Muntha in the seventh house and the Moon in the ninth 
house : foreign travel. 

Mars, as the lord of the year, located in a kendra: distant travel. 

The lord of the Yatra (Deshantara) Saham in the ninth house 
(a) under benefic influence indicates a comfortable journey; and 
(b) under malefic influence indicates a troublesome journey. 

Mars in the ninth house in the rashi of natal Jupiter signifies 
fear of death in travel. 

Mars in its own house in the birth chart, located in the ninth 
house in the annual chart coinciding with its own sign ensures 
a beneficial and comfortable journey. 

The Muntha in the ninth house enhances the Bhagya (luck). 

The ninth ford in Ithasala with the fourth lord promises 
benefit in respect of property. 


THE TENTH HOUSE 


A strong year lord in the tenth house leads to increase in status, 
wealth and dignity. Even when it is located in any of the other 
kendras (houses 1, 4, 7), it gives benefic results including 
promotion in job. 


195 


The Sun in the tenth house with the Muntha ensures gain 
in position or status, and comforts. Ill-associated and debilitated 
Sun here gives fall in status or punishment from the ruler. 

A strong Sun in Leo in the tenth house gives favours from 
the ruler and an elevation of status. For Scorpio ascendant, the 
tenth house coincides with the sign Leo. The Sun here, 
establishing Ithasala with the lagna lord, indicates attainment of 
governmental favours depending upon its strength, or a change 
of job for a better one. 

A strong Moon in the tenth house, falling in the sign of the 
natal Mars, leads to a gain in status following a change in place 
or job. 

A strong Mars in its own sign in the tenth house indicates 
enhancement of status following one’s own courage and efforts. 
A strong Jupiter here also gives similar results. 

A strong Mercury in its own sign in the tenth house of the 
annual chart results in gain of honour and status through 
astrology or through other intellectual deeds. 

The year ford when located in the tenth house also enhances 
the status of-the individual. Thus Saturn as the year lord, in the 
tenth house, coinciding with Capricorn, Aquarius or Libra, 
ensures good health and leads to increased wealth. The Sun in 
a similar situation provides wealth through elevation of status. 
Mars when similarly placed gives wealth through one’s own 
valour. Mercury here ensures wealth from medication (treatment), 
Jyotisha and poetic skills. 

An Ithasala involving the lords of the lagna, the year, and the 
tenth house bestows royal favours and status on the native. 
Favours from the government also accrue when the lord of the 
year, also happening to be the lord of the Raja Saham, is in 
Tthasala with the Sun. 

Mars in the annual chart in the sign of natal Saturn, falling 
in the tenth house and in aspect with the Muntha, causes loss 
of wealth and status through unscrupulous deeds, theft, dacoity, 
etc. It also indicates punishment from the ruler. 

Some other combinations affecting the &arma of the 
individual are as follows : 


— A strong Sun in the fourth house leads to regaining of the 


196 


lost status, or regaining of status earlier held by the native’s 
ancestors. 


- A strong Sun in the eleventh house leads to association with 
the ruler and his ministers. 


- A weak Mars in the sign of natal Saturn, combust, located 
in the third or the ninth house, and under maiefic influence, 
prompts the native to indulge in sinful deeds. 


— Saturn as the lord of the year, or as one of the office-bearers, 
located in the third or the ninth house indicates increasing 
religious inclinations. 


— A weak Saturn, as lord of the Karma Saham and aspecting 
the tenth house, leads to unorthodox Karma and lack of 
foresight. 


THE ELEVENTH HOUSE 


All planets, by their location in the eleventh house, are capable 
of giving benefic results depending upon their Pancha-vargiya 
Bala. 

A strong benefic in the eleventh house, bereft of any malefic 
aspect or association, indicates material gains, and enhancement 
of all that the eleventh house signifies. Malefic association or 
aspect leads to obstacles and losses. 

A weak planet in the eleventh house causes loss of wealth. 

Ithasala between the lagna lord and the eleventh lord results 
in excessive gains, and association with worthy men. 

The lagna lord as well as the lord of the year, strong and 
located in the seventh or the eleventh house, indicate gain of 
wealth from business, trade, etc. 

Mercury as lord of the year located in the eleventh house 
ensures good profits in business.” 

A strong Muntha or the Muntha lord located in the eleventh 
house leads to achievements in education and intellectual 
pursuits.’ 


1. Same results accrue when Mars is located in the lagna or the second house, 
and involved in a Kamboola yoga with the lagna lord. 

2. Mercury as the year lord located it the second house also causes profit in business. 
3. Increase in income from academic and intellectual pursuits follows as a result 
of Mercury becoming the year lord, located in the lagna along with the 

Muntha, in association or aspect ‘of benefics. 


197 


Artha Saham occupied by benefics indicates multiple gains. 

Artha Saham falling in the lagna, associated with benefics, 
promises access to hidden and underground wealth; nor so if 
malefics aspect or associate with it. 


THE TWELFTH HOUSE 


A weak lord of the lagna or a weak year lord, located in the sixth, 
the eighth or the twelfth house, indicates varied losses during 
the year. The nature of these losses depends upon the signs falling 
in the said houses {houses 6, 8, 12). 


For example : 


(a) In quadruped signs (Aries, Taurus, Leo, second half of 
Sagittarius, first half of Capricom): Losses involving cattle 
and pets. 


(b) In biped signs (Gemini, Virgo, Libra, and first half of 
Sagittarius) : Loss of or through servants, subordinates and 
enemies. 


(c) In water-related signs (Cancer, Scorpio, Aquarius, Pisces): 
Loss of watery animals or of possessions related to water. 


The Sun as the year lord located in the sixth, eighth or 
twelfth house, in a quadruped sign, and afflicted, leads to 
losses occurring through servants and subordinates, as also to 
strife with them. 

Mars and Saturn together in the tenth or the twelfth house 
indicate loss of horses, vehicles, etc. Location of the eighth lord 
of the annual chart in the sixth, eighth or twelfth house is also 
not held beneficial. ; 

Strong Saturn as the year lord, located in the sixth, eighth 
or twelfth house, increases one’s inclination towards religion, as 
well as towards virtuous deeds. 


MISCELLANEOUS COMBINATIONS 


Venus as the year lord ensures inflow of wealth, especially when 
located tn the second house. 

Jupiter as the year lord promotes the house that it aspects 
in the birth chart. 


198 


Jupiter in the annual chart, in the house owned by it in the 
birth chart, in Ithasala with the lagna lord, promotes all good 
results pertaining to that house. 

Natal Jupiter's rashi as lagna in the annual chart, if well- 
associated, ensures good health, dominance over others, and 
increase in wealth. 

The lagna lord of the birth chart in a kendra, trikona or the 
cleventh house from the lagna lord of the annual chart ensures 
wealth and comforts during the year. 

The year lord and the lagna lord in Ithasala indicate 
procurement of a vehicle. 

Mars as the year lord in the third or the tenth house, under 
benefic aspect indicates travel. . 

Mars involved in a Kamboola yoga indicates definite travel. 

The Moon as one of the office-bearers in the birth chart.as 
well as the annual chart, in a sign owned by Mercury and 
associated with malefics in. the annual chart, indicates foreign 
travel and strife. 

A debilitated Mercury in the Hudda of Mars indicates loss 
of wealth. If there is benefic aspect on Mercury, it leads to gains. 
When Mercury is weak and the sign of natal Mars coincides with 
the lagna in the annual chart, it indicates low thinking and a 
generally inauspicious year. 


CONCLUSIONS 


1. A planet strong in the birth chart but weak in the annual 
chart gives good results during the first six months and 
adverse results during the last six months.* 


2. A planet weak in the birth chart but strong in the annual 
chart gives adverse results during the first six month and good 
results during the last six months. 


3. A strong planet in the birth chart, when weak in the annual 
chart, gives good results during the first half of its dasha and 
adverse results in the later half. 


4,5 That is, to say, the birth chart takes precedence over the annual chart though 
the annual chart too must find expression, 


199 


A weak planet in the birth chart, when strongly disposed in 
the annual chart, gives adverse results during the first half 
of its dasha and favourable results during the second half. 


A planet which promises benefic or harmful results by its 
particular location in the birth chart, produces similar results 
during the year when it is located in a similar manner (house- 
wise!} in the annual chart. 


Planets strong in the birth chart as well as the annual chart 
produce consistently good results. 

They produce adverse results throughout when they happen 
to be weak in both the birth chart as well as the annual chart. 


When the lord of the year is in any of the houses 6, 8 or 
12, and the tenth lord of the annual chart 1s also weak, the 
year proves very inauspicious. 


CHAPTER XIII 
THE MAASA PRAVESHA 


Where do the half months and months together 
proceed in consultation with the year? 

Where do the seasons go, in groups or singly? 
Tell me of that Support - who may he be? 


‘ATHARVA VEDA’ 


The basis of the annual horoscope, as must be amply clear by 
now, is the longitude of the Sun at the time of birth. The 
importance of the Sun in Vedic astrology has been extolled by 
an authority no less than the sage Parashara himself who, in his 
famous, Sudarshana Chakra method, advocates considering the 
lagna, the Sun and the Moon as of equal import while analysing 
a horoscope. Significant variations in the position of the Sun are 
supposed to herald significant changes in the life of the native. 

As has been already said, when the Sun approaches the same 
sign, degrees, minutes and seconds of longitude as at the time 
of birth, that moment is called as the Varshapravesha or the 
beginning of the new year for the native. The Sun, in one year, 
traverses twelve signs of the zodiac, staying in one sign for 
roughly one month. It will thus be seen that every month, after 
the Sun enters the next sign, at some moment it will pass over 
the same degrees, minutes and seconds of longitude as at the 
time of birth. This will repeat every month, roughly at intervals 
of one month. The time when the Sun in any sign attains the same 
degrees, minutes and seconds of longitude as it had at the time of 
birth ts called the Maasa-pravesha’ or the ‘monthly return of the 
Sun’. There will thus be twelve Maasa-praveshas in a year, and 
the first Maasa-pravesha will be the same as the Varsha- 
pravesha for that year. 


201 


A horoscope cast for the moment of the Maasa-pravesha is 
called the Maasa Kundaly’ or the tnonthly chart’. A monthly chart 
is prepared in order to further narrow down the timing of events. 
Since it involves additional labour, practitioners of annual 
horoscopy generally resort to the monthly charts only in special 
circumstances. 


Calculating the Maasa-pravesha and the Monthly Chart 


Note the exact longitude of the Sun at birth. This is the same 
as the longitude of the Sun at the time of Varshapravesha for 
any year of life. If we add one sign to it, we get the longitude 
of the Sun at the next Maasa-pravesha. From the ephemeris, we 
work out the exact date and time when the Sun attains this 
longitude. This date and time is the Maasa-pravesha for the 
second month. Adding two signs to the Sun’s natal longitude 
gives us the Sun's longitude for the third month, and the date 
and time when the Sun attains this longitude constitutes the 
Maasa-pravesha for the third month. Similarly, the Maasa- 
pravesha can be worked out for all the twelve months of a given 
year of native's life. The monthly charts are the horoscopes for 
the Maasa-praveshas thus obtained. 

It may be required to cast a monthly chart only for a 
particular month, and not for all the months of the year. For 
example, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on May 21, 1991, 
during his forty-seventh year of life. In order to make a monthly 
chart for the month of May 1991, we first refer back to the 
birth chart of Mr. Rajiv Gandhi (Chapter HI: Casting the 
Annual Chart) and find that the longitude of the Sun is Leo 
3°49'4", We work out from the ephemeris for the year 1991, 
the date and time during the month of May (and before the 
date of the event!) when the Sun attains in Taurus (the sign 
in which the Sun will be located in the later half of May) the 
longitude of 3°49'4", This date and time is the Maasa-pravesha 
for the month in question. A horoscope ts then prepared for 
this time. The method of working out the Maasa-pravesha for 
the said moment is as follows: 

From the ephemeris for 1991, m the month of May, we find 
that: 


202 


(a) The longitude of the Sun at 5:30 AM on May 19, 1991 is 
153°47'57". 

(b) The longitude of the Sun on May 20, 1991 is 1°4°45'43". 
Thus our required degrees of the Sun (3°49'4") fall between 
5:30 AM on May 19, 1991 and 5:30 AM on May 20, 1991. 


{c) The movement of the Sun in 24 hours is 57'46”. 


We see that the Sun must move another 1'7" from its position 
on May 19, 1991 (5:30 AM) to reach the longitude of 3°49'4", 
This distance is travelled is 27 minutes and 50 seconds 
(calculating from the daily motion of the Sun). Adding this time 
to 5:30 AM (the time for which the Sun’s position for May 19, 
1991 is available), we find that.the Maasa-pravesha comes to be 
5h 57m 50s AM (IST), equivalent to 5h 19m 10s AM (LMT) 
for Bombay (the place of birth of the native). 

The ascendant as calculated for this time will be 151°24'20". 
Planetary longitudes are then calculated for this time in the usual 
manner. 


The Muntha in the Monthly Chart 


As has been already mentioned, the Muntha is in the lagna at 
the time of birth. It progresses by one sign every year, or 2°30’ 
every month. For locating the Muntha in the monthly chart, first 
locate it in the respective annual chart. For the forty-seventh year 
of our native, whose birth ascendant is Leo, the Muntha wiil fall 
in the sign Gemini (denoted by the remainder after dividing by 
twelve the sum of completed years and the sign in the birth 
ascendant) in the annual chart. Since the Muntha is on the birth 
lagna at the time of birth, its degrees coincide with the degrees 
of the ascendant. The mid-point of the ascendant of the birth 
chart of our native is Leo 14°36". Thus, the Muntha. falls in 
Gemini 14°36’, in the annual chart for the forty-seventh year of 
Mr. Rajive Gandhi. 

Now we calculate the Muntha position for May 1991. The 
forty-seventh year of Mr. Rajiv Gandhi starts in August 1990. 
The number of completed months upto May 1991 (from August 
1990) is nine. The progression of the Muntha in these nine 
months will be: 


2°30' x 9 = 22°30! 


203 


Adding this value to the Muntha in the annual chart, we 
get: 
Gemini 14°36’ + 22°30' = Cancer 7°6'. 
The monthly chart cast for the month of May 1991 for Mr. 
Rajive Gandhi will be as given below. 


Y 
Lagna | Venus 
IM. & 


Moon 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Muntha 


Chart XIII-1 
May 19, 1991 


Lagna 01°24'29" Mars 01°53'41" Venus 17°16'17" 
Sun —-03°49°04" Mercury 08°46'29" Saturn (R) —13°06'00" 
Moon = 10°24'06" Jupiter =: 13°21'09" Rahu 26°30'01" 


Alternative Method for Maasa-pravesha 


An alternative and much simpler method of calculating the 
Maasa-pravesha for any given month is being described. Note 
the longitude of the Sun at the time of birth. For the next eleven 
months, find out the day and time each month when the Sun 
attains in successive signs the same degrees, minutes and seconds 
of longitude as at birth. Thus we get the Maasa-pravesha for the 
first twelve months of life. This may be tabulated for future use. 

In order to calculate the Maasa-pravesha for any given month 
in any given year of life, add the Dhruvanka (Chapter III: Casting 
the Annual chart) for the completed number of years to the 
Maasa-pravesha for the corresponding month during the first 
year of life. This will give the Maasa-pravesha for the required 
month. 

The Maasa-pravesha for the first twelve months of Mr. Rajiv 
Gandhi may be tabulated on next page. 


204 


‘Table XIII-1 
Maasapravesha for the first twelve months of the native 
born on August 20, 1944, at 7:11 AM (IST), in Bombay. 


Month Date Day Maasa-pravesha 
d. hm. $. 
1. August 20.83.1944 Sunday 0 7 ii 0 
2. September 20.9.1944 Wednesday 3 5 31 38 
3. October 20.10.1944 ~— Friday 5 15 48 45 
4. November 19.11.1944 Sunday QO 14 3. 19 
5. December 19.12.1944 Tuesday 2 a Sh 
6. January 17.1.1945 Wednesday 3 14 34 31 
7. February 16.2.1945 Friday 5 4 20 Mii 
8. March 183.1945 Sunday 0 2 19 36 
9. April 17,4,1945 Tuesday 2 12 50 57 
10. May 18.5.1945 Friday 5 i 9 «45 
11. June 18,.6.1945 Monday 1 18 34 51 
12. July 20.7.1945 Friday 5 5 31 41 


By the above method, the Maasa-pravesha for May 1991 for 
the native under consideration may be calculated as follows: 


Maasa-pravesha in May 1945 (18-5-1945) : 5d 11th 9m 45s. 
Dhruvanka for 46 (i.e., completed) years : id 19h 1m 27s. 


Maasa-pravesha in May 1991 (47th year) : 7d 6h 11m 12s, 
or Sunday 6h 1im 12s. 


The Maasa-pravesha in May 1991 occurs on Sunday which 
should fall on the 18th of May (the date of the Maasa-pravesha 
during the first year of life) or a day before or after the said date. 
In 1991, the Sunday nearest to the 18th of May falls on May 
19, 1991. Thus, we get the Maasa-pravesha as May 19, 1991, 
at 6h 11m 12s (IST). The ascendant calculated for this moment 
of time will be 1'5°14'29". 

It will be noted that the above method, though much simpler, 
gives a slight variation in the time of the Maasa-pravesha, with 
a corresponding variation in the mid-point of the ascendant. It 


205 


is for the readers to judge the veracity of this method. In any 
case, this method deserves to be experimented with. 


The Maasesha or the Lord of the Month 


Five office-bearers have been already described while discussing 
about the lord of the year (Chapter VII : The Lord of the year). 
In the monthly chart, there are six office-bearers. Besides the five 
(the lagna lord of the birth chart, the lagna lord of the annual 
chart, the Muntha lord, the Tri-rashi-pati and the Dina-Ratri- 
pati) already mentioned, the lagna lord of the monthly chart 
constitutes the sixth officer-bearer. The strength of the office- 
bearers is determined on the same basis as the Pancha-vargiya 
Bala. The lord of the month is also decided on the basis of the 
same principles as are applicable to the determination of the lord 
of the year. 


Analysis of the Monthly Chart 


The monthly chart must be analysed in the same manner as the 
annual chart. The results of the monthly chart will obviously be 
applicable to one month only. The lord of the month has the 
same significance in the monthly chart as the year lord in the 
annual chart. The Tajika yogas, Sahams, and other principles 
applicable to analysis of houses may all be applied in order to 
make possible a closer timing of events. Needless to say that the 
monthly chart must be analysed only in conjunction with the 
annual chart as well as the birth chart. 


THE DINA PRAVESHA 


Just as the Sun’s transit through one sign indicates the monthly 
return of the Sun, so also its transit through one degree indicates 
the daily return of the Sun. The Sun is supposed to cover a 
longitude are of one degree in one ‘day’. Keeping the minutes 
and seconds of the Sun’s natal longitude constant, and adding 
one degree for each day, provides the longitude of the Sun for 
a given day; the time at which the Sun attains this longitude 
is called the ‘Dina-pravesha’ or the daily return of the Sun. A 
Dina-Kundali or day-horoscope can be cast for this moment and 
analysed as usual. There can’ thus be 360 day-horoscopes in any 
given year. 


CHAPTER XIV 
SUMMARY 


Vanished are those who in the days before us 
gazed at the rising of the morning Sun. 

It ts we the huing who now behold the Dawn, 
and after us her shining others will see. 


‘RIG VEDA’ 


Chapter I explains the basis of the annual chart. The Tajika 
system with its special features, especially the Tajika aspects and 
the planetary relations, has been briefly explained. The links of 
the annual chart with the birth chart have been highlighted. 
Stress has been laid on the fact that the annual chart is essentially 
a transit chart of a superior nature, and must only be treated of | 
along with the birth chart. 

Chapter II explains the difference between a north Indian 
and a south Indian chart. Special features of various houses along 
with their significance, the planets, the zodiac, the rashis or signs 
of the zodiac, and the characteristics and significations of the 
rashis have been detailed here. Nature of planets, their natural 
relations, their significations, and such important aspects as 
planetary exaltation, debilitation, retrogression, combustion, 
Moolatrikona signs, etc., have been explained. The nakshatras and. 
the vargas have also been briefly touched upon. 

Chapter III deals in detail with the method of casting the 
annual horoscope. The solar cycle and the time of commencement 
of the year (also known as the Varsha-pravesha) have been 
explained. Both the modern and the ancient methods of arriving 
at the Varsha-pravesha have been described. The birth chart of 
Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, and his annual chart for the year 1984, 


207 


when he became the Prime Minister, have been taken as 
examples. 

Chapter IV deals with a very special feature of the annual 
horoscope called the Muntha. Locating the Muntha in a chart, 
its progression during the year, and the results of the Muntha 
depending upon its location in different houses have been 
described. The Muntha also gets influenced by the planets which 
aspect or associate with it, and by the signs in which it is located. 
These, as well as the results pertaining to the Muntha lord, have 
also been dealt with. 

Chapter V explains the three main dasha systems generally 
employed in the annual chart in order to time the events, 
Methods of calculation of the Mudda dasha, the Yogini dasha 
and the Patyayini dasha, along with their antardashas or 
sub-periods, have been discussed in detail. The view of Kalidasa, 
the author of the Uttarakalamrita, in respect of the Mudda dasha 
has been discussed. 

Chapter VI deals with the methods employed to assess the 
strength of planets. Of the three main methods, the Harsha Bala 
is the simplest to calculate and gives a quick view of the planetary 
strength. The Dwadasha-vargiya Bala consists of twelve-fold 
strength of planets and is the most elaborate. The Pancha- 
vargiya Bala, however, is the most important in annual 
horoscopy. This consists of five-fold strength of planets, and 
gives an accurate numerical value for planetary strength. One of 
the five factors considered here is known as the Hudda which 
is a very special feature of the annual chart and needs to be 
researched upon. : 

Chapter VII Concerns itself with the determination and 
interpretation of the lord of the year. The lord of the year is 
selected out of five planets, known as the five office-bearers in 
the annual chart. This selection makes use of the planetary 
strength as determined by the Pancha-vargiya method. Also 
discussed in this chapter are the special circumstances when the 
Moon, otherwise considered unsuitable for the year lordship, 
qualifies for the post of the lord of the year. The results of various 
planets as year lords have been dealt with in details. 

Chapter VIII deals with a very special feature of the annual 
chart, the Tri-pataki Chakra, which gives an overall view of 


208 


whether the year in question will be generally favourable or 
generally unfavourable. The basis of this is the influence or 
‘vedha’ of various planets on the Moon. The views of 
late Shri Hardev Sharma Trivedi, an eminent astrologer of north 
India with whom the author had personal discussion, on the 
use of the Tri-pataki Chakra have also been incorporated in this 
chapter. 

A detailed description of the results accruing from the location 
of various planets in different houses forms the substance of 
Chapter IX. Hints about the interpretation of these results, 
which otherwise appear too generalised, have been added toward 
the end of the chapter. 

A comprehensive treatment has been meted to the sixteen 
‘Tajika yogas, with several illustrations from actual horoscapes, 
in Chapter X. An understanding of the Tajika yogas is 
essential in order to make any successful predictions on the basis 
of the annual horoscope. The most important of these, the 
Ithasala yoga, has been dealt with in great details. Stress 
has been laid on the fact that the basic Parashari principles 
of astrology must always be adhered to while analysing these 
yogas. 

Chapter XI deals with another special feature of annual 
horoscopy, called the Sahams. Numerous Sahams have been 
described in the classical as well as modern texts. A list of 
important Sahams, taken out from the classics, and method of 
their calculation, have been detailed. Judgement of the strength 
or weakness of a Saham and the special significance of the Punya 
Saham have been highlighted. Analysis of the Sahams, along 
with illustrations, has been dealt with in details. The importance 
of the strength of a Saham in the birth chart has also been 
stressed. 

Chapter XII details important principles and combinations 
pertaining to the twelve houses of the annual chart. Each house 
has been separately dealt with. Affliction to the annual chart, 
prosperity, comforts, progeny, disease, death, marriage, professional 
rise and fall, income and expenditure, have all been discussed in 
details, along with appropriate illustrations. Stress has again been 
laid on the importance of studying the annual chart along with 
the birth chart. 


209 


Chapter XHI briefly deals with the Maasa-pravesha or the 
monthly return of the Sun. The method of calculation of the 
monthly chart in order to permit a closer timing of events has 
been described. Location of the Muntha in the monthly chart 
has also been discussed. In the end, mention has also been made 
of the Dina-pravesha or the daily return of the Sun to permit 
the casting of a day-chart. 


INDEX 


Calculations 
Annual Chart, 25-31 
Dina-pravesha and the Day- 
Chart, 205 
Lord of the year, 78-82 
Maasa Kundali (the. monthly 
chart), 201, 203-204 
Lord of the month, 204 
Mudda dasha, 40-41 
sub-periods, 43, 44 
Muntha, 32-38 
in the monthly chart, 202 
Patyayini dasha, 46-49 
Sahams, 151-170 
Strength of planets 
Dwadasha-vargiya Bala, 63-72 
Harsha Bala, 51-52 
Pancha-vargiya Bala, 54-62 
Tri-Pataki Chakra, 86-92 
Yogini dasha, 43,45-46 


Events Astrologically Explained 
Child birth, 183, 184 
Putra Saham, 186 
Death, 177 
and disease, combinations 
for,. 192-193 
combinations for, 190-191 
of brother, 122 
of the native, accidental, 129, 
191 
Mrityu Saham, 169 
Dwi-janma year, adverse results 
from, 176, 177, 178, 183 


Exacerbation of illness, 115 
Fall from power, 165 
Foreign travel 
Deshantara Sahara, 168. 
Gains from a far off place, 122 
Tllness, combinations for, 185, 186 
Imprisonment; Bandhana Saham, 
167 
Inheritance; acquisition of a 
house, 121 
Loss of earnings, 133 
Lord of the year 
Venus ensuring marriage, 81 
Sun ensuring high position, 79 
Marriage 
combinations for, 81, 82, 
187-188 
Vivaha Saham, 166 
use of Hudda of ascendant, 
188, 189 
Obstruction/interruption to 
native’s karma, 121 
Procurement of vehicle, 122, 125 
Professional rise, Ithasala between 
the lagna lord and the tenth 
lord, 118 
Quarrels, combinations for, 192 
Rahu in Cancer as a yogakarka, 
1il 
Rise in career; change for the 
better, 138 
Separation from and reunion with 
wife and children, 131 


Separation from wife; 
imprisonment. 132 

Suicide, combinations for 190, 192 

Termination of pregnancy, 134 

Theft, 123-124 

Travel, 125 


Interpretation : Subde points 

Adverse combinations, 175 

Calculation of Sahams, 156-157 

Cancellation of adverse 
combinations, 176-177 

Dwi-janma yeas, 174-175 

Hints about interpretation of the 
results of plancts, in different 
houses, 106-107 

Interpretation of the Tajika yogas, 
general hints, 144-145 

Lagnesha and Karyesha, 109-111 

Miscellaneous combinations 
pertaining ta analysis of 
houses, 197-199 

Rahu in cancer as a yoga-karaka, 
til 

Retrograde fast-moving and 
slow-moving planets, and the 

Ithasala yoga, 126 

Sahams; a note of caution, 169-170 

Sahams: in the birth chart, 157 

Synthesising the annual chart with 
the birth chart, 109 


Interpretation : Techniques 

Houses) 
Analysis of 171-199 
First, 173-179 
Second, 179-180 
Third, 180-181 
Fourth, 181 
Fifth, 182-184 
Sixth, 184-186 
Seventh, 186-189 
Eighth, 189-193 
Ninth, 193-194 
Tenth, 194-196 


211 


Eleventh, 196-197 
Twelfth, 197 
Lord of the year: interpretation, 
82-85 
Muntha: 
Effects of, in different homes, 
33-35 
Influences on, 35-37 
Lord, 37-38 
Sahams: analysis, 161-164 
Tri-Pataki Chakra: interpretation, 
89-90 


Personal : Persons 
Gandhi, Indira, 177 
Gandhi, Rajiv 27, 111, 165, 201 
Trivedi, Hardev Sharma 
Views of, on Tri-Pataki, 92, 208 


Technical Terms 
Annual Chart/annual horoscopy 
Varshaphala 
difference from natal 
horoscopy, 2 
dasha(s), 3 
Interpretation of, 73-75 
Mudda, 40-43 
Patyayini, 46-49 
View of Kalidasa, 42 
Yogini, 43-46 
method of casting, 2, 24-31 
origin, 1 
purpose, 2 
relation with birth horoscope, 
7-9 
Astrology : major systems, 2, 3 
Deeptamsha, 118-119 
Dhruvanka, 25, 26, 30, 34 
Different horoscopic 
representations, 10-11 
Dina-pravesha; the day chart, 205 
Dwi-janma year, 174-175 
Houses 
Significance, 12-13 
technical terms, 11-12 


212 


Krishamsha, 46, 47 


Lord of the month (Maasesha), 


205 


Lord of the year (Varshesha/ 


Varsheshwara) 
determination of, 78-79 


Moon: special conditions 80-82 
the five office-bearers, 76-77 


Planetary Strength 
Dwadashavargiya Bala, 62-72 
Harsha Bala, 50-53 
Panchavargiya Bala, 53-62 
Rashis (signs): Characteristics 
of, 14-16 

Sahams : 
names of 


Monthly Chart, 201-202 
Maasa-pravesha, 201, 203-204 
Months in, 202 

Muntha 
calculation, 32 
definition, 32 
effects from different houses, 

33-35 
in the monthly chart, 202 
influences on the Muntha, 
35-37 
lord, 37-38 

Nakshatras, 20, 21, 22 

Patyamsha, 47 ~ 

Planets 
aspects, 19 
combustion, retrogression, 19 
directions, 19 
exaltation, debilitation, 

Moola-trikona, 18, 19 
in different houses, 93-107 

Sun, 93-95 

Moon, 95-96 

Mars. 96-98 

Mercury, 98-99 

Jupiter, 99-101 

Venus, 101-102 

Saturn, 102-104 

Rahu, 104-105 

Ketu, 105-106 
lordships, 16 
natural relationship, 17, 18 
nature : benefic or malefic, 

16, 17 


significations, 2G 


Anya-karma, 155 
Artha, 155 
Asha, 153 
Bandhana, 156 
Bandhu, 154 
Bhratri, 153 
Deshantara, 154-155 
Gaurava, 153 
Guru, 152 
Jadya, 156 
Jalapatha, 156 
Jeeva, 153 
Kali, 154 
Karma, 154 
Karya-siddhi, 155 
Kshama, 154 
Labha, 156 
Mahatmya, 153 
Manmatha, 154 
Matri, 153 
Mitra, 152 
Mrityu, 154 
Paneeya-Paata, 156 
Paradara, 155 
Prasava, 155 
Preeti, 156 
Pitri, 153 
Putra, 153 
Punya, 152 
Significance of, 159-161 
Raja, 153 
Roga, 154 


213 


Santaapa, 155 Yoga(s) 

Samarthya, 153 at a glance, 146-150 
Shastra, 154 Duhphali-Kuttha, 142-143 
Shatru, 156 Durapha, 144 

Shraddha, 155 Dutthottha-Davira, 143 
Vanika, 155 Gairi-Kamboola, 140-141 
Vidya, 152 Ikabala, 112-114 

Vivaha, 155 Induvara, 114-115 

ean a Ishrafa, 126-128 


Ithasala, 115-126 
Kamboola, 136-139 
Khallasara, 141 


strength/weakness of, 158-159 
what they are, 151 

Tri-Pataki Chakra 
Concept of vedha, 87 Kuttha, 144 
locating the planets on, 87-88, Manau, 135-136 
91-92 Nakta, 129-133 


marking the rashis, 86 Origin recent 108-109 
Vargas, 21, 23 Rudda, 141-142 
Varshapravesha, 2, 24, 25, 27, 28, Tambira, 143 

30, 31, 51, 77, 200 Yamaya, 133-135 


Santaapa, 155 
Samarthya, 153 
Shastra, 154 
Shatru, 156 
Shraddha, 155 
Vanika, 155 
Vidya, 152 
Vivaha, 155 
Vyapara, 156 
Yasha, 152 
strength/weakness of, 158-159 
what they are, 151 
Tri-Pataki Chakra 
Concept of vedha, 87 


locating the planets on, 87-88, 


91-92 
marking the rashis, 86 
Vargas, 21, 23 
Varshapravesha, 2, 24, 25, 27, 28, 
30, 31, 51, 77, 200 


213 


Yogafs) 


at a glance, 146-150 
Duhphali-Kuttha, 142-143 
Durapha, 144 
Dutthottha-Davira, 143 
Gairi-Kamboola, 140-141 
Tkabals, 112-114 
Induvara, 114-115 
Ishrafa, 126-128 
Ithasala, 115-126 
Kamboola, 136-139 
Khallasara, 141 

Kattha, 144 

Manau, 135-136 

Nakta, 129-133 

Origin recent 108-109 
Rudda, 141-142 
Tambira, 143 

Yamaya, 133-135 


