Vedic Astrology For Beginners 


A.M Latha 


Contents 


Introduction 


Chapter-1 


Astrology and its purpose 


Chapter 2 


An overview of different methods by different astrologers 


Chapter 3 


Fundamental things required for reading a horoscope 


Chapter 4 


Introduction to Ascendant and various houses 


Chapter 5 
Analyzing the strength of a planet 


Chapter 6 

DASA system 
Chapter 7 

Transit planetary chart 


Chapter 8 


Divisional charts 


Chapter 9 


Points to look for analyzing a chart 


Chapter 10 


Famous Classical books list for learning astrology 


Conclusion 
About the Author 
Connect with A.M Latha 


Introduction 


In the present-day, Astrology became so popular among all the circles. Mainly the 
uncertainties prevailing in life due to so many factors like increase in stress, Excess 
competition and lack of concentration are causing lots of people into depression 
states and into life-threatening situations. In removing those obstacles and to 

move forward into the future with hopes, the astrology act as a guide and as a 
mentor. 


To know any clue of our future we need a knowledgeable person.Finding a genuine 
astrologer is very important for knowing the right direction, If not the wrong things 
will lead to block the further enhancements of our growth corridor. The only thing 
one can do is either, he/she has to learn the subject or should approach a person 
who has very good knowledge in this area. But self-studying is not easily possible 
without a proper guide. Genuine astrologers are very few to find. This made the 
choice for the people to learn astrology. But they should have minimum basic 
knowledge about the books, Techniques to be implemented and other required 
stuff to move ahead with confidence. So here | thought of giving my little knowl- 
edge of astrology to those who are looking for it. What | will try to mention here is a 
tiny little drop of this big ocean of subjects. After all, what | believe is | am too still 

a learner in astrology, even then | am an enthusiast in giving my little knowledge for 
the benefit of new learners who are coming up. 


The learners of astrology who are curiously looking for starting to learn from the 
basics will understand the overall view of astrology by reading this book. 


One more important point to remember. This book does not cover step-by-step 
process of stepping into studying astrology. In fact, it deals with the overall view of 
the concepts involved for a better understanding of the subject. 


KRKKKKKKKRKK 


Chapter-1 


Astrology and its purpose 


Astrology or Jyotish is termed as science of light. It is purely based on the 
planetary cycle’s movements in the solar system in relation to the person born on 
earth. Based on the connection between the planetary vibrations and the time the 
person took birth on earth the karma of a person is analyzed. The relation doesn't 
have any scientific evidence to prove, that is why astrology is not agreed by many 
of them as pure science. But why believing in astrology by people is the results 
through it are almost occurring as predicted using the techniques 


One more important thing is the person who studies and predicts results also 
create certain karma for themselves. So predicting results is not an easy thing, 
because it can create certain sins and miseries if it is not properly studied before 
giving predictions. 

The knowledge of astrology now we have is not new, it has existed millions of 
years ago. The vast knowledge of astrology is given by the great sages and saints 
by going through the deep meditative state using their 3 eye during the time 
where science and technology doesn't exist. They have passed this great knowl- 
edge for the benefit of mankind to bring consciousness in individuals about karma 
philosophy and give the message about the cause of suffering and how to over- 
come suffering. 

But today we are treating astrology as a knowledge of the subject as a solution 
for fulfilling our always expanding desires and cravings in this 21st century. People 
nowadays are coming to astrologer asking for remedies to overcome sufferings 
which they are experiencing and after getting relief they leave, but not realizing 
themselves as they are born to finish the karma allotted. The Sufferings they are 
facing is an opportunity to realize and explore the internal connection with the di- 
vine, but instead they are just happy with approaching an astrologer for temporary 
remedy and again carrying the vasanas throughout their journey. 

The subject is aimed to bring the consciousness in the human beings, which is 
regarded as the highest form of evolution for an awareness about their existence, 
but unfortunately all people cannot bear with the same sense that Mukti or libera- 
tion of the soul’s ultimate for the end of the sufferings. 


It is to be understood as a knowledge tool or an aid for the liberation of the soul, 
but not for fulfilling the desires of the mankind. 


Anyway, we will see the basics of astrology and how it is structured and analyzed. 


Chapter 2 


An overview of different methods by different astrologers 


There are different methods of analysis for a chart by different astrologers. 
Whoever it is, the basic rule, they follow is the 12 signs, 9 planets, including Rahu 
(North node) and Ketu (South node) except western astrology method, where 
they include Neptune, Pluto, Uranus for predictions. Raasi chart, Bhava chart, 
Navamsa chart and transit chart are of prime important charts for predicting the 
events. Based on Ayanamsa there are different methods. In India, for ‘Parasara’ 
and ‘Jaimini’ we use Lahiri ayanamsa for calculation part of the horoscope. In ‘KP 
system’, they use KP ayanamsa for calculation. Like this, there are different types 
of ayanamsas of casting a chart. 


There are different models. Here | am using the basic model which is easy to 
understand and in this type of chart counting starts from the clockwise direction 
from the ascendant. 


Here | am trying to depict few general types of systems which we follow as as- 
trologers for giving predictions. 


1. Parasara method 


This method is introduced by saint (rishi) ‘Parasara’. So we call itas parasara 
system. In this method of horoscope analysis we use the ‘Birth Lagna’ also called 
Ascendant and we consider other planetary positions, transits and ‘Vimshotthari 
Dasa’ etc things for the analysis of a birth chart. 


2. Jaimini method 


This method is by Rishi Jaimini. So-called with rishis name Jaimini Paddathi. In 
this method of horoscope analysis apart from Birth Lagna, Chandra Lagna we also 
analyse chart based on other special Lagna's called Arudha Lagna, Ghati Lagna, 
Hora Lagna. 


When coming to dasa, not only Vimshottari Dasa, but dasas like, Narayana Dasa, 
Shoola Dasa, Kalachakra Dasa, Ashottra Dasa, sudasa, Lagna kendradi Rasi dasa, 
Dwisaptamadi sama dasa etc. are also used baesd on the need. ‘Argalas’ that is 
rasi aspect and special ‘Bhava Drishti’(house aspect) are also considered. Plane- 
tary transits are very important in predicting future events. 


3. KP method (stellar astrology) 


This is popularly called Krishnamurthy Paddathi because the method is invented 
by great astrologer Krishnamurthy. Hence the name Krishnamurthy Paddathi or 
simply called as KP system of analysis. 


In this methodology, due importance is given to all the Rasi lord, Nakshatra lord, 
Sub-lord and sub sub-lord etc. Basing on KP Ayanamsa they use the behavior 
divisions and find out the behavior cusp lords, star lords, sub-lords. In this method 
of analyzing the charts, the sub-lords analysis is very important because it plays a 


vital role in giving accurate results if time of birth is exact with seconds. Alaso here 
analysis is done by combining Bhava cusp(house cusp), sub-lords, planets posited 
and also the Significators of sub-lords. 


4. Naadi astrology 


Usually in South India it is very famous. There are different types of naadi tech- 
niques available. Naadi AMSA is the 150th part of a rasi. Basing on the planetary 
positions in the particular AMSA results are predicted by looking into the available 
in the Naadi books. But the problem lies in correct birth data. A rectified birth chart 
gives good results. There are different Naadi systems prevail. Some of them are 


Brigu Nadi, 

Bhrigu Nanda Nadi, 

Dhruva Naadi, 

Chandrakala Naadi and so on... 
5. BV Raman methodology 


In this method the Rasi chart, Navamsa chart is considered in analyzing the 
strength of the planet and then basing on house lords and the impact of malefic 
and benefic aspects of planets, one can judge the strength of the planet for pre- 
dicting an event. 


6. Western method 


Westerns follow this method basing on Sayana system. ‘Sun’ is taken as the basis 
for the analyses. Progressed horoscope technique plays an important role in pre- 
dicting events for a particular year of the native. Here tropical Ayanamsa is used. 
The transits, conjunctions, aspects are important in predicting. 


In spite of many changes in this modern world relating to lifestyle, culture, trends, 
personality, behavior, etc.,things, astrologers still follow the basic principles of as- 
trology only from classical texts to predict an event. Because the principles are so 
strong and accurate which are based on planetary movements. Here in this book 
we follow only the general methods which are minimum to look at a chart. I’m 
using common analysis in analyzing a chart with parasara method 


Chapter 3 
Fundamental things required for reading a horoscope 


There are certain basic things which we need to memorize or remember on our 
fingertips to read a chart accurately. We will know the things that are needed for 
understanding a chart. A chart is simple with 12 boxes and 9 planets placed in it 
according to the time of Dirtn. Of course nowadays, free software's are available so 
| am not going to teach the calculation part of casting a horoscope. You can have 
the chart in your hand in a few seconds if you have the computer software in your 
laptop and time of birth, details of the person in which you are interested to cast. 
Because casting a chart is somewhat | won’t recommend for Beginner's of astrol- 
ogy enthusiasts who prefer to have curiosity to how to look into the chart. Where 
as learning how to cast a horoscope chart requires a separate book to be written 
and who are interested to learn maths and who are good at it can go through such 
books available in the market. In fact, there are different styles of charts like North 
Indian style and South Indian style. Depending upon one's interest they can learn 
the chart drawing and read. Here | am following Parasara’s method for analysis of 
a chart and I’m using ‘south indian’ style of casting of chart where reading is done 
in clock-wise direction from lagna or ascendant, both are same. 


In solar system all other planets including earth rotate around the sun in their 
respective orbits in an elliptical form. Thus the elliptical orbit is 360° divided into 12 
parts known as signs or raasi. 


Each sign is of 30°. 


Again each sign is further divided into 9 parts, each of 3 V2° for the convenience 
which is called pada of a star. 


Every star will have 4 padas and each sign will be having 9 padas. 


A horoscope chart will have 12 signs of 9 padas each so totally 9X12=108 
padas. 


If you take a single (constellation)star, the padas will not necessarily be in the same 
rasi, a part of it could fall in the next rasi. 

For example, 

If 3 padas are in one rasi, then remaining 1 pada will be in the next rasi. 

Likewise the star padas are distributed along the 12 rasis where a rasi/sign can 
have only 9 padas totally. 

The related information can be seen below in the form of a chart given in the next 
page. 

Starting with “ASWINI” constellation in a clockwise direction all the Nakshatras/ 


stars/constellations (you can use any of these words) are placed strictly in an order. 
We cannot replace the positions of it. 


You can see the chart with arrow direction indicating how the stars are placed in 
“Rasis’/"Signs’”. If you count the number of padas allocated in rasi, you will find 
“9” in each. 


The list of the basic things that need to be required to remember while learning 
astrology for dummies or beginners follows here. 


9 Planets 


In the universe, there could be many undiscovered planets, but in astrology we 
consider only the 9 main important planets which are in the solar system for ana- 
lyzing any horoscope chart. 


These are Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, Saturn and two imaginary 
nodes called ‘Rahu’ and ‘Ketu’. 


Again for easy reading and due to its individual nature, they are grouped into 
malefic and benefic. 


SUN, MARS, SATURN, RAHU, KETU are considered Natural Malefic Planets. 
MOON, VENUS, MERCURY, JUPITER are considered Natural Benefic Planets. 
Characteristics of Each Planet: 

SUN: 

‘Sun’ represents The soul, the king, father, stomach, headache, copper, 
electronics, government, authority, etc.. 

MOON: 

‘Moon’ represents Mother, milk, liquids, hotels, Emotions, feelings, water, 

T.B, food, female, breasts, pearls, pearl color, etc.. 

MARS: 

The planet ‘MARS’ represents Brother, commander, fire, accidents, war, 

men, coral, courage, bravery, fight, earth, surgery, blood, house, angry, 


weapon, military, masculine etc.. 

JUPITER: 

The planet ‘JUPITER’ represents GURU, finance, bank, lawyer, preachers, 
wealth, colleges, advisor, wisdom, knowledge, money, jaggery, diabetes, 
astrology, son, elder brother, yellow color, sweet drinks, fat, etc.. 

VENUS: 

Love, romance, luxury, sexual comfort, beautiful women, publishing, dress, 
gifts, clothes, flowers, dance, singing, arts, marriage, white color, luck, 
etc.. 

MERCURY: 

Accounts, intelligence, merchant, business-mind, green color, emerald, 
education, trade and commerce, maths, sculpture, writing, skin, journalist, 
printing, novels, translation, grammar, information, etc.. 

SATURN: 

Hard work, black color, iron, disease, servants, thief, handicapped, obsta- 
cles, depression, handicrafts, clay, ceramics, agriculture, bridges, reser- 
voirs, discipline, blue-sapphire, 

RAHU: 

Illusion, umbrella, gambler, dirty places, rogue, etc.. 

KETU; 

Liberation, mantra and tantra, meditation, etc.. 

12 Rasis (Signs) 


The 12 signs also called ‘Rasis’ are as follows, starting with the ‘1st rasi(Sign)’ 


which is “Aries” and the subsequent signs like “Taurus”, “Gemini” etc follow as 
like we know in “Western astrology”. 


1. Aries (MESH), 

. Taurus (VRISHAB), 

. Gemini (MITHUN), 

. Cancer (KARKATAK), 

. Leo (SIMHA), 

. Virgo (KANYA), 

. Libra (THULA), 

. Scorpio (VRISCHIK), 

. Sagittarius (DHANUSH), 


Oo ON Da FW NY 


10. Capricorn (MAKAR), 
11. Aquarius (KUMBHA), 
12. Pisces (MEENA) in the order. 


The below is the general horoscope chart with “signs”/"rasi’ showing how it looks 
like, starting with 0° and ends at 360° 


Meena Mesha Vrishabha Mithuna 
(Pisces) (Aries) (Taurus) (Gemini) 
330°-360° 00-30° 30°-60° 60°-90° 
Kumbha Karkataka 
(Aquarius) (Cancer) 
300°-330° 90°-120° 
Rasi Chart 
(savya) 
Makara (dockwise direction Sim ha 
(Capricorn) counting) (Leo) 
270°-300° 120°-150° 
Dhanus Vrischika Thula Kanya 
(Sagittarius) | (Scorpio) (Libra) (Virgo) 
240°-270° | 210°-240° | 180°-210° | 150°-180° 


27 Stars/nakshatras/Constellations 
The names of 27 stars 
. ASWINI 

. BHARANI 

. KRITTIKA 

. ROHINI 

. MRIGASIRA 

. ARUDRA 

. PUNARVASU 

. PUSHYAMI 

9. ASLESHA 

10. MAKHA 

11. PURVAPHALGUNI 
12. UTTARAPHALGUNI 
13. HASTHA 

14. CHITHA 

15. SWATH | 

16. VISHAKHA 


ON Oa FP WN = 


17. ANURADHA 

18. JYESTA 

19. MOOLA 

20. POORVASHADA 
21. UTTARASHADA 
22. SHRAVANA 

23. DHANISHTA 

24. SATABHISHAM 
25. POORVABHADRA 
26. UTTARABHADRA 
27. REVATI 


Planets related to the stars/Constellations: 
All the 27 stars are grouped into 9 sections based on planetary assignments. 
So, each constellation/star will have one planet as their star-lord. 


Now the given below chart will help you to remember this very easily. 


ROUP- ROUP- ROUP- PLANET. 
1. ASWINI 10. MAKHA 19. MOOLA KETU 
2. BHARANI 11.17URVAPHALGUNI 20. POORVASHADA VENUS 
3. KRITTIKA 12. UTTARAPHALGUNI 21. UTTARASHADA SUN 
4. ROHINI 13. HASTHA 22. SHRAVANA MOON 
5. MRIGASIRA 14. CHITHA 23. DHANISHTA MARS 
6. ARUDRA 15. SWATHI 24. SATABHISHAM RAHU 
7. PUNARVASU 16. VISHAKHA 25. POORVABHADRA JUPITER 
8. PUSHYAMI 17. ANURADHA 26. UTTARABHADRA SATURN 
9. ASLESHA 18. JYESTA 27. REVATI MERCURY 


RASI Ownership of Planets 

The Ownership houses of planets 

ARIES and SCORPIO—Both houses Owned by MARS 
TAURUS and LIBRA—-Both houses Owned by VENUS 
GEMINI and VIRGO—Both houses owned by MERCURY 
CANCER-------------------- Owned by MOON 

LEOOwned by SUN 

CAPRICORN and AQUARIUS—Owned by SATURN 


The below is the chart showing the ownership houses of the planets. Where we 
can clearly observe that the “sun” and “moon” occupies only one house, whereas 
remaining planets occupies 2 houses each and also we can see symbols of the 
planets in the next chart. 


te 
Ownership 
Houses 


of Planets 


Saturn 


pom Ye =P 


KARAKA of the houses 

Significator's of houses are also called KARAKAS 

‘Karakas’ (Significators) are nothing but important planets that are vital for ‘houses’ 
to function and give the result of that house. It can be somewhere else in the horo- 
scope but its aspect on that particular house is very important to give the result in 
case the House lord is weak or debilitated or failed in giving the required results 
related to the particular house. An ‘aspect’(drishti) of “karaka lord” can give back 
the life support to that house. 

The below is the list of ‘house significator’s’ of all the 12 houses. 

Remember “Houses are different from signs’. 

‘Signs’ are fixed but ‘houses’ varies from chart to chart based on individual birth 
horoscope or could be the same for some charts of an individual, if the moon and 
the lagna falls in the same house. 

1st House—Sun 


24 House-Jupiter 


3' House-Mercury 


4h House- Mars (for lands), Venus (Luxury vehicles and conveyances) 
5th House- Jupiter 

6t House- Mars and Saturn 

7" House- Venus 

8'h House- Saturn 

9th House- Jupiter and sun 

10 House- Sun 

11% House- Jupiter 

12 House- Saturn 

Nature of Houses 

In analyzing a horoscope chart even the basic concept counts a lot in giv- 
ing much information about the individual in detail. 

Example: Persons who are born under ‘fiery sign’ ascendants like “Aries” 
are very quick tempered, which is their general nature. 

Now, we can easily remember the points, if you can see the chart diagram 
once. So, there is no need for paying any special attention to memorize. 
The order is very easy now to recollect i,e “FEAW” fire, earth, air, water 
again “FEAW” and again “FEAW?”. 

So, every element comes 3 times in a chart. 


The nature of rasis is like fire, earth, water, air 


Aries, Leo, Sagittarius------------ Fiery signs 
Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn--------- Earthy Signs 
Gemini,Libra, Aquarius----------- Airy Signs 
Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces----------- Watery Signs 


The below chart clearly illustrates how the Elements’ of nature are assigned to the 
‘signs’. 


Water Fire Earth Air 


Air Water 
Earth Fire 
Fire Water Air Earth 


Like “Elements”, the “Gender” of signs can also be known from the given below 
chart. 


Female Male Female Male 
Male Female 

Female Male 
Male Female Male Female 


The First house in a horoscope is called ascendant or Lagna 


The first house is called Ascendant or Lagna. It could fall on any of the 12 Rasis 
based on the time of birth, place of birth, date of birth. 


The analysis of a horoscope starts from here. The physical appearance, whether 
you are tall or short, or whether you are fair or dark such any things related to 
physical appearance or personality etc can be estimated through the Lagna house. 
Learning astrology itself is a little bit complex task for dummies or beginners as | 
said earlier | skipped the calculation part for the sake of them as it not required at 
this beginning level of learning and also because of the availability of many ‘free’ 
and ‘paid’ software’s in the market, where it is very simple to get yours or yours 
dearest one’s horoscope with just at a click of mouse by entering the birth details. 

| am just solely concentrating on ‘analysis section’ of the horoscope. 

Example Chart: 


This chart below shows how ‘lagna’ and ‘houses’ looks. 


First, you caste a native’s horoscope chart with the help of a computer and related 
software installed in it or through online if you had any internet facility. Now a days 
there are many free software’s available online Like for example “Jhora”. You can 
download any of the software which is almost same giving the same chart as out- 
put just you need to enter the birth details like place of birth( if not longitudes and 
latitudes), time of birth (with minutes and seconds), date of birth along with your 
birth country GMT (Greenwich mean time.) etc details. 


Then finally you will get a chart as, for example, like the above where “ASC” (as- 
cendant) should be seen which the “first house”. 


Remember ‘ascendant is different from ‘moon sign/birth star’. In eastern astrology 
we see people giving general weekly predictions that are based on “particular 
moon sign born’. But in the individual chart analysis, we must take “ascendant” as 
the basis to start with and to know the depths and predict our life events. It is like 
‘tailoring according to our physical measurements’. | think now you might have 
got the point relating to difference between general predictions based on general 
moon sign predictions and individual predictions based on the ‘Ascendant’ and 
other ‘planets location’ in your chart. 

Then how to know about your birth star? 


The “moon” placed position degree gives the details of your exact ‘birth star’ with 
pada. 

Like for example- if you got “Uttarashada star-2nd pada” as your star which means 
you belong to “Capricorn” sign according to “moon sign” 

Suppose think like you are born in “Uttarashada star-1 st pada”, even though you 
are born in the same name star as like above person, but due to the moon’s de- 
grees of position placement you are falling in ‘Sagittarius sign’. Hence, your moon 
sign is “Sagittarius” not Capricorn. 

If you observe the ‘Constellation chart’ given in the ‘first chapter’ with all stars 


placed with ‘Padas’ you can understand very well about the above concept. 


As it is a hand drawn chart, | could not able to show the degrees, but degrees are 
important to pinpoint the events and predictions in advanced astrology. But you 
as a Starter, if | go about putting some Math’s in the chart you may be stuck up 
there and may not able to go for the next chapter. In order to proceed smoothly 
we have to cover certain basic fundamental points which are necessary to move 
ahead with ease. 


The planetary positions in a chart can be observed, for instance like, 
Take “Venus” in the above example 

Where it is placed from Lagna? 

Ans: 7th house (count from ASC (ascendant)) 

In which sign it is placed? 

Ans: LEO (house of sun) 

Actually who is the owner/lord of that house of the sign? 

Ans: SUN 

Is ‘Sun’ and ‘Venus’ friends or enemies? 


Ans: Enemy (Means ‘Venus’ is placed in the enemy’s house, so Venus won't feel 
comfortable in sun’s house). 


What does the 7th house relate to? 

Ans: Partnership, marriage, spouse etc 

Which planet is aspecting ‘Venus’ in the 7th house? 

Ans: Mars with 4th aspect (counting from ‘Mars’ ‘Venus’ is placed in the 4th house. 
‘Venus’ is which house lord in this chart? 

Ans: ‘Venus’ is the owner of ‘Taurus’ and ‘Libra’ which falls at 4 and 9 in this horo- 
scope. So, ‘Venus’ is lord of 4th and 9th placed in the 7th house. 

Is the house lord ‘Sun’ aspecting ‘Venus’? 

Ans: No, it(SUN) cannot, because sun’s house leo is placed in 12th from ‘sun’. 
Who is ‘Karaka’/Significator of 7th house? 

Ans: ‘Venus’ (Significator lord directly placed in the house creates some distur- 
bance). 

So, even though house lord "SUN” is weak and not able to give support to the 

7th house. The Significator lord had an aspect or direct placement will give partial 
result. And also ‘Mars’ (the Natural malefic and functional malefic in this chart) the 
3th and 10th lord aspecting 7th house(partnership) creates some trouble from 3rd 
house(younger siblings / communication / short journeys) and 10th house( profes- 
sion/father). 


These is how one should analyse a chart. Like that analysis for every planet 


follows, and overall conclusion has to be made. The more points you consider, the 
more accurate your prediction will be. 


If you can understand this section of the reading chart, then the rest of lessons will 
guide you to know further about what points to look at. 


Grouping of houses 


The houses are divided into 3 different aspects for reading a horoscope chart. The 
following clearly shows in an order. 


Kendra Houses------------- 1,4,7,10 houses in a chart 

Phanapara houses------ 2, 5,8,11 houses in a chart 

Apoklima Houses-------- 3, 6,9,12 houses in a chart 

Good and bad houses 

Trikona houses-1,5, 9 are good houses 

Upachaya houses-3, 6, 11, 10 

Dusthana houses-6, 8, 12 houses are called house of suffering 

Maraka Houses-2, 7 Houses are called death, causing houses. 
Grouping of houses based on different aspects of life 

Apart from this we can study houses for analyzing the life of an individual 


Dharma (1, 5, 9 houses), —Houses for analyzing moral values and ethics 


Artha (2, 6, 10 houses),------- Houses for analyzing Wealth and success 

Kama (3, 7, 11 houses)------ Houses for analyzing one’s fulfillment of desires and 
longing’s 

Moksha (4, 8, 12)--------------- Houses for analyzing liberation of soul 


Meaning of planetary aspects 
The meaning of conjunction, Angles (Kendra), trine (trikona) etc. 


Conjunction- when two planets are near to them or at one place with certain de- 
grees of distance say around 10° it is called a conjunction. 


Kendra- If any planet is a distance of 90° from another planet, it is said to be in 
Kendra causing an aspect Kendra Drishti. 


Trikona- If a planet is a distance of 120° to another planet, then it is said to be 
causing trine aspect. 


Special Drishti of planets 
The drishtis or aspects of planets 


All planets have drishtis on 15*, 4", 7 and certain planets have special drishtis like 


Jupiter —on 1,5,9 from its Placement 


Saturn3, 7, 10 from its Placement 
Mars-4, 7, 8 from its placement 


If we have the knowledge of those few things in your mind, then successfully, you 
can move ahead further in learning other few more basics easily. Because these 
are the basics without which nobody can understand about horoscope and how to 
read it and analyse it. 


RRKKKKKKKEK 


Chapter 4 
Introduction to Ascendant and various houses 


The analysis of a chart starts with Lagna which is considered as the first house. 
The clockwise counting of houses (south India method) is made for knowing the 
remaining 11 houses. The placement of planets is analysed with respect to the 
ascendant. So Lagna or ascendant has a very important thing for analyzing or 
starting to analyze a chart. Otherwise horoscope merely is 12 boxes with 9 planets 
posited. The analysis starts only by knowing Lagna. The ascendant at the time of 
birth shows our personality. 


Mara 
Moon Ketu 
#1 
2"=house_ | 3" house Phouse fu peers 
+ Saturn 
1* house. (Example) 6"house 
Bhava/Lagna) 
12*h 
jouse Chart Venus 
7" house 
on Rahu Mercury Sun 
jouse lip house 9" house 84 house 


The houses and what it represents can be known by reading following short 
descriptions. 


1ST house- It is called thanu bhava, it represents physical appearance, personality 
of the individual 


2nd House- house of speech, finance, 

3rd House- younger siblings, bravery, communication 

4th House- lands, mother, vehicles, fixed assets, peace at home, education 
5th House- children, intelligence, love affairs, Purva Punya 

6th House- enemies, diseases, service jobs in organization, debts, and pets 
7th House- business, spouse, marriage, partnership 

8th House- sudden luck, physical death, secret lifestyle, 

9th house- House of fortune, higher education, abroad travel, philosophy 
10th House- house of father, profession, career, 

11th House-house of gains, elder siblings, 


12th House- death, loss, hidden enemies, bed comforts, secret affairs 


If you want to know one just you can check the related house counting from your 
ascendant and see and analyse the house from various aspects. 


For example: Take the above example chart for demo 
How to analyse things from chart? 


Ans: In the above chart planet “Venus” is placed in 7th house.(So look classical 
texts for combinations and placements of palnets given at the end). 


Result 1 for Venus in the 7th house 


The native will give much significance to their spouse and relationship. They look 
for harmony and peace in a relationship etc 


Result 2 for Venus in LEO 


The native look very grand and charismatic, love is very important for them. They 
are attracted to big personalities etc.. 


Result 3 for 4th lord in 7th house 


Native may be more connected to 4th house like mother, may be the spouse have 
partnership business related to lands, vehicles etc 


Result 4 for 9th lord in 7th house 


9th house is related to overseas or foreign land so, the spouse may have a profes- 
sion in foreign land or luck in the foreign land. 


Like that one need to analyse the data and concepts. 


KRREKKKKKKEKE 


Chapter 5 
Analyzing the strength of a planet 


In analyzing a particular house we need to know the owner of the house, that is 
the planet who owns the house naturally and its placement in that horoscope. 
Apart from that, also see the planet that occupied the concerned house and also 
the Drishti or an aspect of the other planets to that house. The overall aspects of 
the house decide the strength of the house. The strength of the planet depends on 
various factors. Let us see the various strengths of the planets 


See where the planet is posited. There are various houses for planets which can 
make them to sit comfortable or uncomfortable, like 


Exaltion, 
Debilitation house, 
Moolatrikona house, 
Own house, 

Enemy house, 

a Friend's house, 
Neutral house 


for a planet. The strength of the planet is strong in the Exalted house and weak 
in the Debilitated house. Every planet has got Exalted, Debilitated etc places in a 
horoscope. The study of these is required separately. 


Venus Sun Moon3 
27° 10° RshulO" 
Exaltation 
Positions 
Mars 
28° of Planets 
Ketu Saturn Mercury 
20° 20° 15° 


Mercury | Saturn Ketu 
15° 20° 20° 
Debilitation Mars 
igs 28° 
Position 
of Planets 
Jupiter 
Moon 3° Sun Venus 
Rahu 20° 10° 27° 
Jupiter Mars Venus Mercury 
Saturn Ownership Moon 
Houses 
of Planets 
Saturn Sun 
Jupiter Mars Venus | Mercury 
Mars Moon 
(0°-10°) | (4°12°) 
Saturn/Ketu 
(0°-20°) Moolatrikon 
of Planets 
Sun/Rahu 
(0°-20°) 
Jupiter Venus Mercury 
(0°-10°) (0°_15°) (16°-20°) 


Rahu Venus Mars Jupiter 
Mercury 
Sun Enemy Saturn 
Houses of 
Sun Planets Saturn 
Mercury Venus Mars Ketu 


There are others strengths too for analyzing a planet like Directional strength like Di- 
rect motion, Retrograde motion. Retrograde planets give reverse results. 

Any planet except Moon when comes near to the sun causes the planet to com- 
bust. Combusted planets are weak. They lose their power. 


There is another concept called planetary war. If a planet is in conjunction with 
Mars and if Mars is ahead by degrees to that planet, it causes planetary war, where 
that planet loses its strength or just we can say the planet was defeated by Mars. 
The Sixfold strength of a planet is also analysed which is called SHADBALA to 
know the strength of the planet. 

The Avastha of a planet is also required in analysing the strength of the planet. 
There are 5 Avasthas for a planet. By knowing in which state of Avastha it is we 
can decide the strength of it. 


The Ishta Phala and Kashta Phala strength of the planet are also important in 
ighlighters 


knowing whether the DASA of that planet is going to be good or bad. 


Chapter 6 
DASA system 


Along with planetary transit, another major important tool required for analysis is 
Dasa System. Generally, we see the VIMSOTTARI DASA system. It is calculated 
based on our moon position in the constellation or star at the time of birth. 


In order to predict the results through Dasa system, we need to see which lord 
Dasa is running and where the lord is placed in the chart and also analyse the as- 
pects on the lord and aspects by the lord in coming to a conclusion in happening 
of the events. 


The Mahadasa lord usually referred as MD and Antaradasa lord, which is referred 
as AD can give lots of clues about the events to happen in life. The relationship 
between them is very important. The Antardasa lord should be favorable to the 
MahaDasa lord for getting favorable results in that Antardasa period. 


One important rule is the Antaradasa planet lord and Mahadasa planet lord 
ighlighters- 


should not fall in 2/12, 6/8 axis. Which is said to give unfavorable results. 


While interpreting results using Dasa system, check the relation of Mahadasa lord 
and running Antaradasa lord in Lagna chart and also in the Navamsa chart for 
getting results accurately. 


If one knows or attained certain skill in analyzing Vimsottari dasa properly with 
respect to planetary transits, good results can be attained. 

To be openly speaking Vimsottari dasa clearly explains our karmic cycle of how 
and where the life starts, how the life is allotted based on karma for this lifetime 
from the time of birth we are born. As it is cast from the position of MOON, the 
Vimsottari clearly indicates our karmic behavior with respect to mind which drives 
us. 


As there are many kinds of Dasa's which can be used properly for predicting 
results, but we require expertness over it. Only through experience it can be 
acquired. 


Now the popular Dasa using now a day is the CHARA DASA in Jaimini method. 


KKKKKRKEKKEE 


Chapter 7 


Transit planetary chart 


One more important tool in analyzing the horoscope is planetary transits. If you 
want to predict an event or happening, then check for current planetary positions 
by positioning it on the natal chart. The current transit of planets with natal plan- 
etary positions and analysis can be made along with keeping in view of current 
Dasa. 

The major planets like Jupiter and Saturn brings major changes in one’s life, if it 
moves from one house to another house and the effect of it lasts long as because 
it doesn't change to another house not less than a year. Jupiter takes 1 year to 
move from one sign to the next sign, whereas the Saturn takes 2V2 years to move 
to the next sign. So mainly in this major planets movement period, happening of 
many events like Marriage, Children, Career, etc in one's life can be clearly ob- 
served. But at the end, don't forget that other tools too are needed for analyzing, 
before giving a prediction. 

The nodes like Rahu and Ketu move in a reverse direction for every V/2 year period. 
So the positions of these also have a major influence in happening major events in 
the life of individuals. 

The other planets like Mercury, Venus, Mars, Sun and Moon changes their posi- 
tions and move to next sign in days. 


The Moon took 2V2 days to move to the next sign 
The Sun takes 30 days to move. 

The Mercury takes 30 days 

The Venus takes 30 days 

The Mars takes 45 days to move to the next sign. 


Favorable transits give good results in time and unfavorable transits give bad 
results. 


KRKKKKKKKKK 


Chapter 8 


Divisional charts 


The divisional chart analysis gives clues about particular and happening of the 
event. For example, children and their details can be known by studying D-7 chart 
of the individual. 


The following are the few divisional charts or shortly termed as D- charts generally 
we use for analysis. 


D-1 chart (or) Bhava chart------------------ Physical appearance, personality 
D-2 chart (or) Hora chart------------------- Wealth position 
D-3 chart (or) Drekkana Chart------------- Siblings details 


D-4 chart (or) Chaturamsha Chart------- Lands, home, fortune, property 
D-5 chart (or) Panchamsa Chart-Fame and recognition in the society 
D-6 chart (or) Sasthamsa------------------ Details about health and illnesses 
D-7 chart (or) Saptamsa chartChildren details 

D-9 chart (or) Navamsa Chart------------- Spouse details 

D-10 chart (or) Dasamsa chart—Career and Power 


D-12 chart (or) Dwadasamsa chart—Parents details 


D-16 chart (or) Shodasamsa chart------- Happiness through Conveyances, 
Luxuries 

D-20 chart (or) Vimsamsa----------------- About spiritual things 

D-24 chart (or) Chaturvimsamsa-------- About education, further studies, Siddhi 
D-30 chart (or) Trimsamsa chart-------- Evil effects 

D-60 chart (or) Shastiamsa chart------- About previous karma and other all things 
related 


In analyzing D-charts rectification of birth-time is essential for getting good results. 
Any errors in birth time can only lead to poor results and so it is advised not to look 
into D-charts without rectifying birth time. 


KKEKKKRKEKRE 


Chapter 9 
Points to look for analyzing a chart 


After knowing what is what we have finally come to the final step of analyzing a 
horoscope for an event. 

A few simple steps for general analysis of a horoscope using the Parasara method 
1. First see which event you want to see which house it belongs to. For example, 


if it is related to career then see, figure out the 10 th counting from the natal Lagna 
(Ascendant). 


2. See in which Rasi it is falling and find out who is the owner of the house, next 
see where the lord of the house placed in the horoscope. 


3. Also, see the planets that are placed in the house required and find out whether 
the owner of the house and the planets posited in the house are friends or enemies 
or neutral. 


4. Assess the strength of the lord and the planet posited in the house. 


5. Also check other planetary aspects of the house and house lord. A Malefic 
planet's aspect gives rise to unfavourable results while a Benefice planet’s aspect 
gives positive results. 


6. Verify the placement of Significator in the horoscope and assess its strength and 
aspect towards the required house. 


7. Check the Navamsha chart for finding the general strength of the planet which 
gives a clue about the strength of the planet and other aspects of it in that chart. 


8. Check which Vimshottari Dasa is running at present and which ANTARA-DASA 
is going and see how the DASA lord and ANTARA DASA lord are placed and how 
is their relationship. Is it favourable or Unfavourable? 


9. The transitory Planets’ position is also very important. 
**This is the general analysis for analysing a house. 
For timing of an event 


Apart from the above see the current transit chart and current DASA running and 
analyse the MahaDasa lord and AntaraDasa lord positions in the natal horoscope 
and in transitory chart and in the Navamsha chart if possible in the related D-chart. 


Then you can come to some conclusion of the position would be of the house or 
happening of the event related to the particular house. 


KRKEKKKKKKK 


Chapter 10 


Famous Classical books list for learning astrology 
Every learning enthusiast of astrology is very much willing to learn the subject as 
fast as he/she can. The truth is knowledge cannot come easily without some expe- 
rience or exposure in understanding with practical sense. And the intuition is very 
important for giving the predictions. Varying predictions from one astrologer to 
another on the same chart is because of the individual outlook of the astrologer we 
can say perceiving capacity of their mind in analyzing the chart. Because there are 
lot many Permutations and Combinations exist which is not possible for the human 
mind to analyze the complexity of things, but the knowledge of astrology can help 
the pinpoint happening of an event.we can say perceiving capacity of their mind in 
analyzing the chart. 
After familiarizing themselves with basic concepts in the class, the learner should 
read some mentioned classical astrology texts which are said to create a good 
foundation for becoming a good astrologer. Of course, only text reading is not 
sufficient unless one practice reading charts using the mentioned principles there. 
Now we see some names of classical books followed by author's name (usually 
rishis) 
List of Few Important classical books that must be read for learning astrology 
1. Brinat Parasara Hora Sastra-by Parasara Maharshi 
. Jaimini Sutras-by Jaimini 
. Phaladeepika -Mantreswara 
. Saravali-Kalyana Varma 
. Brihat Samhitha-Varaha Mihira 
. Uttara Kalamutram-Kalidasa 


. Jataka Parijataham-Vaidyanadha 


oN OO FPF W NY 


. Narada Samhitha-by Narada 
9. Brihat Jatakam-Bhattothpala 
10. Garga Hora-by sage Garga 


These are a few books to read for getting knowledge in astrology. Whereas many 
new authors have come up with the latest techniques and research in this area. 


Conclusion 


Even though there are many books available in the market on astrology by many 
experienced astrologers giving their wonderful knowledge in the form of books, | 
dare to write this book to simplify the understanding of basic concepts briefly with- 
out any confusion for the benefit of novice in the field of astrology. 

My writings just give an overview of the astrological concepts of how a horoscope 
will be analyzed with the minimum things. Results of predictions depend on vari- 
ous things like correct birth time, Calculation, method of analysis, intuition, etc. 
This book is very helpful for people who are interested in learning astrology and 
who don’t have any knowledge regarding astrology before. Once if they are fa- 
miliarized with the concepts they can go to the next step of advanced horoscope 
analysis. 


About the Author 


Latha is the author of this book. She is a practicing astrologer and teacher and a 
spiritual follower. This is her first book on astrology, which is releasing under Shri- 
mayee publishers. While writing the book she applied a balanced approach which 
gives an idea of how to learn astrology simply keeping in mind the basic concepts 
required for understanding the subject. However, she has not given the complete 
subject of learning, in fact, it is a first step of learning, so that further steps happen 
automatically without anybody’s help. Hope you grasped the basics within min- 
utes. Now you can jump into the ocean of learning with ease. 


If you like reading this book, then please give a rating and review 
Thank you!! 
Her other publication you can go through 


