Introduction 
to 
Astrology 


(Ganita, Hora & Samhita) 


ood explaination of panchenry 
ear s/mouths fear loved pf He 


squkvauk: od Sun thy vess., 


Cot. A.K. Gour 
Dr. Upay KAntT MIsra 


Contents 


Acknowledgement 
Preface 
About the Author 


Introduction to Astrology 

Astrology - Our Heritage 

The Planets, Signs and Constellations 
Astrology the Harmonizer 

What is Jyotisha ? 

An Astrologer-Qualifications 

Utility of Astrology 

History of Astrology 

The Present Period 


wo On Dn Uo fF WN 


— 
So 


Fate and Freewill 


remy 
—_ 


The Karma Theory 


= 
nN 


Why Believe in Destiny 


— 
Ww 


Astrology and Psychology 


—_ 
pb 


Astrology and Science 


an 
on 


The Panchanga 


vi Contents 

16 Casting of Horoscope by Modern Method 

17. Casting of Horoscope by Traditional Method 
18 Astro-Meteorology 


Annexures 

1. Mughals and Astrology 

2. Daily Rising Lagna for New Delhi 

3. Lagna Correction for the Major Cities 


11 
120 
136 


167 
189 
214 


CHAPTER 1 


Maharishi Parashara, 
Ved Vyasa and Meitreya 


Maharishi Parashara is the source of all astrological knowledge 
bequeathed to the mankind. He himself states:- 


“Gaara Ge Wha Area wera 
wea viltarfesat are: We areq 
aat war aer We qed aat feat” 


“The knowledge of Astrology emanated from Lord Brahma, 
the creator, who gave it to Narada Muni. Narada Muni, in turn, 
gave this knowledge to Shaunaka and other Rishis. Maharishi 
Parashara admits to have acquired the knowledge from these 
Rishis. Modestly he states to his disciple, Rishi Maitreya, that 
whatever he could retain out of the wisdom showered upon him, 
the same knowledge, now, he imparts to the capable disciple in 
that very form”. 


Maharishi Parashara taught Astrology to his disciple Maitreya 
Risht in the form of Questions and Answers. Itis but appropriate 
that students of Astrology know these two personalities in a little 
more detail. 


Maharishi Parashara 


Maharishi Vashistha was the manasa-putra (the son born from 
mental power) of Lord Brainna. He was also the family priest of 
the legendary king Dasharatha, the father of Lord Rama. His 
very name conjures up images of divinity and benign 
benevolence. Arundhati was his devoted wife. Shakti was the 
eldest amongst the 100 sons of Maharishi Vashistha. Shakti was 


2 introduction to Astrofogy 


married to Adrishyanti who was a devout, well mannered and 
dutiful wife. She took every possible care of her father and 
Mother-in -law devotedly. 

The Surya-vanshi (the descendant of Sun) kings, especially 
the rulers of Ayodhya, were a very powerful lot in the ancient 
times. One of them wasa very great king called Tribandhiaita (also 
known as Anaranya). His only son, Satyavrata was a great devatee 
to his father. However, according to one story, the prince was 
very arrogant and impertinent with a perverted mind. Once, 

- out of blind passion, the prince forcefully abducted a Bralimin’s 
daughter who was to be married off in immediate future. This 
angered the entire Brahminical clan of the kingdom who 
collectively lodged a vehement protest before the king. The crime 
was so heinous that the king, after consulting the family priest 
(who was none other than the venerable Rishi Vashistha), ordered 
the prince to leave the kingdom immediately. The hot blooded 
prince, without accepting his own mistakes, squarely blamed 
Rishi Vashistha for his misfortune. In the wilderness of a dense 
forest, he fervently prayed. As a consequence, there was a great 
famine. During the famine, Raj Rishi Vishwvamitra was deeply 
immersed in meditation, on the bank of the river Kaushiki, His 
family was starving in his absence. Visliwamitra was a 
contemporary and a great rival of Maharishi Vashistha. Unlike 
Maharishi Vashistha, Vishwamitra was nota Brahmarishi (a Brahmin 
elevated to the status of a Risiti), he was conferred the title of Raj 
Rishi (as he was the son of Gandhi -a noble and great Kshatriya 
king). We shall know more about Vishwamitra a little later in this 
chapter itself. We were discussing that the family of Raj Rishi 
Vishwamitra, was starving in his absence during the famine 
created on account of his deep meditation. Knowing their plight, 
the prince Satyavrata came to their rescue. He took upon himself 
to bring food for the family every day by hunting. One day, when 
he got no prey, out of sheer revenge, he killed Nandini, the cow 
of Rishi Vashistha, and fed her meat to the starving family of 
Vishwaimitra without their knowledge. Nendini was very dear to 
Rishi Vashistha since she was the progeny of Kamadhenu and thus 
had all the propensities of her mother. Having come to know 
the plight of Nandini, Rishi Vashistha cursed the prince to 


Maharishi Parashara, Ved Vyasa and Meitreya 3 


immediately turn in to Chandala (some one totally untouchable) 
and continue to be tormented by a Trishanku (a piercing cone) 
on three counts; viz. arrogant behaviour with the father, 
abduction and molestation of an unwilling girl and killing of 
the holy cow. 

The erstwhile prince, and now a Chandala, kept on wandering 
in the forests. His father, having come to know about his pitiable 
condition, called him back and after having handed over him 
the kingdom, went to the forest for prayers. Salyavrata, though 
still a Chandala, but now generally known as king Trishanku, was 
married and had a son called Harishchandra. In the mean while 
he got a very strange desire to go to the heaven in his physical 
form. Since Maharishi Vashistha continued to be the family priest, 
he approached Maharishi Vashistha that he (Satyavrata) should 
be sent to the Devaloka in his numan form (since his mortal life 
span was not yet over). He was counseled by Maharishi Vashistha 
and his son Rishi Shakti that since going to Devaloka in human 
form transgresses the Divine law, the same should be avoided 
at all costs and that he should, instead, tender unconditional 
apologies to his father. 

There is yet another version of the story about his desire to 
go to the heaven in the human form. It states that after being 
banished from his father’s kingdom, Satyavrata faced a unique 
problem since his father ruled upon the entire world. Having 
been feft with no choice but to go either to the hel] or heaven 
(since these were the only two places beyond the domain of his 
illustrious father), he requested the Maharishi to send him to the 
heaven. As stated earlier, Satyavrata was not only chastised by 
the Maharishi, he was advised to beg apologies for al! his 
misdeeds. However, Trishanku was too proud to doso. Therefore, 
instead of sobering up, he went to Raj Rishi Vishwamitra for 
fulfillment of his queer desire. 

Out of the burning desire of one upmanship above the 
Brahlimarishi Vashistha, and remembering the help rendered by 
Satyavrata to his family during his absence, Raj Rishi Vishtwaiitra 
acceded to the request of Satyavrata. An elaborate and proper 
Yagua was performed by Rishi Vishwamitra for this purpose as a 
result of which king Satyavrata was bodily lifted heavenwards. 


4 Introduction to Astrology 


Looking at this preposterous act, the Gods in the ‘heaven not 
only stopped his ascent; they ensured that Satyavrata started 
falling back earthwards. Enraged by the fact that Satyavrata was 
denied entrance to the Devaloka, Rishi Vishwamitra again exercised 
his great powers and barred his re-entry to Mrityuloka (the earth). 
Not only that, so enraged was he, that he started creating anew 
heaven around the upside down hanging king Satyaurata in the 
middle of no where! The Gods again prayed to Rishi Vishwamitra 
that like his previous one, this act too was against the divine 
law. Rishi should abandon his efforts to contradict these laws 
immediately since the Rishi were supposed to be the enforcer of 
these laws along with the Gods. Rishi Vishivamitra, realizing the 
contradictions, left his mission unaccomplished. But in the 
process poor Satyavrata was left hanging between the earth 
(Mrityuloka) and the heaven (Devaloka) and came to be known 
as Trishanku. Raj Rishi Vishwaritra, incensed at his failure, cursed 
Brahimarishi Vashistha’s sons. To avenge the humiliation, thus 
incurred in a futile exercise, a cruel demon called Rudhira was 
sent by Vishzvamitra to the abode of Rishi Vashistha. In the absence 
of Rishi Vashistha, Rudhira ate Shakti Rishi and killed his ather 99 
brothers. Maharishi Vashistha, after coming back, was naturally 
nonplussed and not knowing what to do, decided to end his 
life. Arundhati, his wife, too wanted to follow his foot-steps. 
However, Adrishyauti, the wife of Rishi Shakti, prevented them 
from doing so. She told them that she was carrying the child of 
Shakti Rishi. Maharishi Vashistha heard the unborn child’s sweet 
and trained voice reciting the shloka from Veda. Lord Vishin 
appeared in person and told Maharishi Vashistha that the unborn 
child was to be a great devotee of Lord Shiva and would ensure 
that his dead father and forefathers (“Pitars”) were duly 
propitiated. This very grand son of Maharishi Vashistha was 
known as Parashara (A far reaching sharp arrow). 

Maharishi Parashara was diligently brought up. He wasa great 
Shiva devotee. Lord Shiva granted him a plethora of boons. 
Parashara was very annoyed with Rudhira and the demons 
(Raksha) for their ignoble and reprehensible acts. He decided toa 
finish them. To achieve this hateful objective he started a 
powerful “Yagua”. The ‘Rakshasa’ started appearing and getting 


Maharishi Parashara, Ved Vyasa and Meitreya 5 


destroyed by dozens is the fire of the “Yagua’. Vashistha Rishi 
advised his grand son to stop this violence and excuse the 
‘Rakshasa’. Forgiveness is the hallmark of a realized soul. 

Rishi Parashara ended this angry “Yagna” of his. Maharishi 
Pulastya, the Guru and forefather of ‘Rakshasa’, appreciated this 
forgiveness by blessing Rishi Parashara and giving him the 
knowledge of all Shastra. 

Maharishi Parashara had honed his astrological know- how 
to such sharpness that once, while he was crossing Yauiuta river 
in a boat, he calculated that if impregnation is done now the 
resultant child would be a blessed boon for the entire world. 
The boatman offered his daughter Matsya-Gandha (one who smelt 
like fish) for immediate impregnation. With the consent of the 
lady, Rishi Parashara impregnated Matsya-Gandha on the boat 
itself. Matsya-Gandha lost her evil smell and became Satyavati. 
The Jyotisha ordained child was our own Rishi Veda-Vyasa. His 
real name was not Veda-Vyasa. In fact he was called Krishiia- 
Dwaipayana. His colour was bluish black as of lord Krishia 
(therefore Krishitia) and that he was born on a Dweepna, an istan«l 
(therefore Dwaipayana). 

Veda-Vyasa is also called Badrayanua as there were abundant 
Badri (Ber - @) bushes in the area where he grew up. He got his 
name Veda — Vyasa because the word means “one who expanded 
the Vedas”. 


Maharishi Maitreya: 


Veda Vyasa - the compassionate Maharishi once saw a small insect 
hurriedly moving about in panic. On being asked the reason for 
this panic, the insect said that he is about to be crushed under 
the big wheels of the approaching cart. Veda-Vyasa ji sugyested 
the insect that he should welcome death as he would be freed 
from the bondage of this very useless life of an insect. The insect 
agreed with him but had a problem, “What if on death | am 
born as some creature worse than an insect?” Rishi Veda-Vyasa, 
in his innate kindness, promised the insect to guide him through 
various lives till it was born as a Brahmin, in human form. 

This promise was kept by Veda Vyasa ji and after his karmic 
journey through the lives in many forms he was born in a Bralnuin 


6 futroduction to Astrology 


house hold. In this life of his, he was initiated in “Sarswata 
Mantra” by venerable Veda Vyasa ji. He was instructed to go to 
the Tcertha (holy place of pilgrimage) called “Bahudaka” and 
remove the doubts of the trader Nandbhadra. Nandbhadra was 
doing an extended Tapa at this Teertha. His doubts were such 
that even today most of us are tormented by those. Let us look 
at them. Nandbhadra was puzzled to see that some people, who 
were really pious and completely devoted to the lord, were 
suffering terrible vagaries of life. Every day was a day of trial 
and tribulation for them. On the other hand, there were people, 
who were real scoundrels and rogues of the first order, with little 
or no regard for any values of life, were flourishing and enjoying 
all comforts of life. This apparent contradiction baffled 
Nandbhadra no end. The Brahmin boy wonderfully explained 
the cosmic law of Karima and Karma — Phala to the trader. Having 
accomplished his mission there, he was to come to the world in 
a new incarnation now. The boy had contacted the dreaded 
Leprosy. He prayed to lord Sun at this Teerfha and died there. 

In his next birth he was born to Kusharu and Mitra. Being 
Mitra’s son, he was named Maitreya. Maharishi Parashara 
instructed Astrology to this soul, so lovingly nurtured by his 
son Veda-Vyasa. The glimpses of teaching of Astrology is found 
in the form of questions and answers in Vishnu Purana and the 
compilation known as “Brihada Parashara Hora Shastra”. 

This is in brief the story of two legends, Maharishi Parashara 
and Maitreya. All Astrology students need to know this. Itis also 
incumbent on everyone who wishes to peruse Astrology to learn 
about the Hindu heritage expounded in Puranas and Upanishadas. 
For the beginner, Shrimada Bhagawada Gita is a sound starting 
point for this stimulating voyage as it contains the crux of all 
Upanishadas. 


CHAPTER 2 


Astrology: 
Our Heritage 


The Veda and Dasha Avataraa 


Astrology is an all encompassing limb of Veda. Therefore it is 
called ‘Vedanga (Veda-Anga)’ a limb of Veda. It is encyclopedic in 
itingress & synthesizes all branches of learning. Since astrology 
is a part of Veda let us know about them. 

Vedas are our heritage. In them is stored the essence of all the 
knowledge. In order to understand the reality of Veda, it is 
appropriate to know the outlines of the Vedic Scheme and the 
Vedic Universe. 


The Vedas 


The Origin of the word “Veda” is from the root “vid” which 
means knowledge. Initially there was only one consolidated 
work called “Veda”. This ‘Veda’ was expanded by Rishi Angirasa. 
Angtrasa or Angira Rishi incorporated simple daily rituals and 
some esoteric occult Practices and thus created “Atharva- 
Augirasa”. This came to be known as Atharva Veda. 

The original Veda was expanded, explained and codified 
by Krishna Dwaipayana (Veda Vyasa) The expanded Veda are:- 


(a) Rig Veda - Prayers and Strotra 

(b) Yajur Veda - Karma kanda (Rituals) and prayers. 

(c) Sama Veda - “Sania” stands for peace of mind. This Vedu 
explains difficult Portions of Riga Veda. It is written in a 
lyrical, pleasant and easy to memorize manner. 

(d) Afharva Veda - Rishi Augirasa had already done the spade 


8 tutroduction to Astrology 


work for this treatise. It has rituals and esoteric occult 
practices. 


The Six Vedauga: 


(a) Shiksha (Phonetics) 
(b) Kalpa (Rituals) 

(c) Vyakarna (Grammer) 
(d) Nirukta (Etymology) 
(e) Chhanda (Metres) 

(f) fyotisha (Astrology) 


The Vedic Scheme 


Veda are the repositories of knowledge. Our forefathers, in the 
hoary past, and we are talking of some 500-750 centuries Before 
Christ (BC), built up this knowledge, bit by bit. Hundreds of 
Sages and Rishi contributed their mites. It is also worth 
remembering that those were the times when knowledge was 
stored in memory only, there being no books as we know of 
today. The Rishi wanted this knowledge to be stored for posterity 
as wellas to be disseminated to the entire population. Knowledge 
has always been graded; it can be partaken strictly in accordance 
with the intellectual calibre. Every person cannot bea Ph.D. ora 
doctor or an engineer. The storage and dissemination of the Vedic 
knowledge is a fascinating saga. Let us take a closer look. 


Storage and dissemination 


The days were when whatever you wanted to know, you had to 
memorize. ‘Shruti’ and ‘Smriti’ - listening and memorizing was 
the only mode of transfer and storage of knowledge. The easiest 
way to commit something to memory is to develop it into a 
‘rhyme’, ‘a ditty’. This is more useful when one wants to 
memorize a large volume of data. For common people, not given 
to intellectual pursuits, small, striking stories are found to be a 
better way of storing information, developing foresight, acumen 
and an absolute understanding of human nature. The people of 
yore understood this differential perhaps better than any 
management expert of the present generation. Therefore, they 


Astrology: Our ttertlige 9 


synthesized the entire process and came out with what we now 
know as the Vedic Scheme. 

In this scheme, knowledge is stored at the apex in the Vedas. 
The knowledge is in the form of ‘Richa’ and ‘Sookta’. The languayye 
and the selection of words is such that each ‘Richa’ or ‘Shloku' 
can be correctly interpreted in a number of ways. This had to be 
done as some portions of this knowledge were meant for people 
who had reached an appropriate state of maturity, intellect and 
development; in immature hands these could prove dangerous 
to the society. Vedas were, therefore, known only to the ‘realized’ 
Gurus. To make the less dense portions of Veda available to a 
larger people of some minimum mental development, Lipanishal 
(also known as Vedanta — the end of Veda) and Bhuashya 
(commentaries) were written. 

To take this knowledge to a wider circle of people the Risitis 
developed Puranas and the two immortal classics, the Ramayana 
and the Mahabharata. Here stress was on stories and each story 
had a moral as well as an uplifting, humanizing angle. 

The outer most circle comprising the children, the village 
folk, the working class and the housewives was catered to by 
stories of Pauchtantra, Hitopadesha and Jataka tales. The “Puranas” 
explain the evaluation of mankind. This evolution has been 
linked with Avatara (incarnations of the lord). This linkage of 
terrestrial events with celestial phenomenon is a hall mark of 
Hindu thought & philosophy. The evolution of life form on the 
earth follows the same sequence as do our “Dasha Avatara:” the 
10 manifestations of the supreme God. This is no accident. Let 
us get acquainted with our ‘Avataras. 

The first Avatara is “Matsya” a fish. This fish has a single 
horn on its head. This fish had warned, the earthlings of 
impending “Pralaya” - the submerging of earth in water. The 
fish God also asked the king to prepare a boat in which a pair of 
each species, the seeds of various plants of the vegetable kingdom 
and the Sapta-Rishis were to be taken. After the “Pralaya” it was 
these people who restarted the creation. This story is also 
contained in the Bible - the Noah’s Ark - remember that the 
Bible is barely 2000 year old and the Hindu Boat was launched 
at least 30-40 thousand years earlier! This story also figures in 


10 Introduction to Astrology 


the Holy Quaran; an the 3rd day of the creation a boat, 300 ft. 
long and 40 ft. high, was prepared and the devout were saved 
from the severe storms that lashed the area and submerged it in 
the water. This Avatara marks the beginning of this creation by 
Gods. 

The next process of evolution was that as the submerged 
varth began to re-emerge, as the waters receded amphibious life 
started. The Avatara at this stage was “Koormia” or the Tortoise. 
This is the time when the seas were churned and the “Keaorma”™ 
bore the brunt of Mandrachal Mountain that was used as the 
churner. 

The third phase in the evolution of the life is the emergence 
of the land mass. Our Avatara is “Varaha” or the wild boar. This 
boar is also credited with lifting the earth from the waters and 
placing it accurately and correctly in its orbit. The earth is 
depicted in the feminine form and a note is taken of her desire 
to be the wife of “Varaha” Bhagwan. 

The next stage of evolution is that man, as known today was 
to emerge, heralding the switch from animalistic world to the 
human world, is half human and half animal form of our 
“Narsimha” Avatara who was half lion and half human. 

The next Avatara is a pygmy, as we know in the beginning of 
the creation man was a pygmy; the aborigines are of small stature 
even in the modern era. This is the Avatara “Vamana” God 
Vamaua, who went to the king Bali's court and asked him for 
three steps of land. Bali was a demon who had become the 
emperor of the universe by vanquishing all Devtas, out of sheer 
inflated ego, granted the wish and in two steps God Vamana 
measured the entire universe. Bali had to offer his head for 
placing the third step. 

The life went on evolving and with this the animalistic nature 
of man kept on increasing. To protect the human softness and to 
destroy the animalistic harshness came “Parashurama”. He 
cleansed the earth of terrorizing kings and their armies. 

Bhagwan Rama is our next Avatara; he is to be the practical 
living example of a “Purushettama”’- “Purusha” (humans) + 
“Ultaniut” (the best of them). Therefore, he is known as the one 
who is the best of the humans. He also gave an example of living 


Astrology: Our Heritage a 


by a code of conduct “Maryada”. The self disciplining human 
has now arrived. 

The next Avatara was Bhagwan Krislina; He stands at the 
pinnacle of evolution. He had to layout an elaborate code of 
living by his discourse to the confused, doubting humanity 
represented by Arjuna. This was done in the middle of the 
battlefield and is popularly known as the Gita. 

The Buddha (the awakened one) is our ninth Avatara. He 
taught the lesson of non-violence to bring some sanity to human 
race’s violence and greed. 

The tenth Avatara is yet to manifest. He is called Kalki and 
he is expected to take us into “Satya Yuga” (the era of truth). 

Now let us get the Astrology of these Avatara. Parashara Hora 
Shastra says that planets came to this world and manifested 
themselves as the following incarnations: 


Sun Rama 

Moon Krishna 
Mars Narsimha 
Mercury Buddha 
Jupiter Vantana 
Venus Parashurama 
Satrun Koormia 
Rah Varaha 

Ketu Matsya 


We will examine these planets in details in the next chapter. In 
the Vedic Scheme, Puranas link this Vedanga called Astrology to 
the Vedic Universe. The link is yet another interesting facet of 
our glorious heritage. Puranas tell us about the universe and the 
special place of Bharatavarsha in that universe. They then go on 
and tell us the reasons why Jyotisha (Astrology) had to be 
developed in this special country of the universe. We now 
examine the Vedic universe, the specialty of Bharatavarsha and 
the consequent development of Jyotisha in Bharatavarsha. 


The Vedic Universe 


All Maha Puranas - and there are 18 of them—mention something 
or the other about the universe. We are taking you to the Vislur 


12 Iitroduction to Astrology 


Purana. Mailreya Rishiis in conversation with Maharishi Parashara 
who is answering Maitreya Rishi’s query about the description 
of earth. 

Maitreya: "You have related to me, O reverend Brahamaua, the 
creation of Svayambluva (one who is born out of himself); | am 
now desirous to hear from you a description of the earth; how 
many are its oceans and islands, its kingdoms and its mountains, 
its forests and rivers and the cities of the gods, its dimensions, 
its contents, its nature, and its form.” 

Parashara: “you shall hear, Maitreya, a brief account of the 
earth from me; a full detail ] could not give you in a century. The 
seven great insular continents are Jambu, Plaksha, Shalmali, Kusa, 
Krauncha, Shaka and Pushkra: and they are surrounded severally 
by seven great seas; the sea of salt water (Lavana), of sugar-cane 
juice (Ikshu), of wine (sura), of clarified butter (sarpi), of curds 
(Dadhi), of milk (Dugdha), and of fresh water (Jala)”. 

See the pictorial description given below: 


Kusha Island 
Sura Ocean 


Plaksha Island 


Geography of the Seven Continents (Wael Te) 


Astrotogy: Our Heritage 13 
Maha Rishi Parashara further states; 


“Jambu-dweepa is in the centre of all these: and in the centre 
of this continent the golden mountain Meru. The height ot Meru 
is eighty-four thousand yojans; and its depth below the surface 
of the earth is sixteen thousand yojans. Its diameter at the summit 
is thirty-two thousands yojans; and at its base, sixteen thousands 
yojais; so that this mountain is like the seed-cup of the lotus of 
the earth. 

(a) Bhadrashva (b) Bhiaratavarsha (c) Ketumala and (d) Uttarkurt 
are located on its east, south, west and north respectively. 

We now go to Matsya Purana which describes these four 
countries as under and | quote: 

“The word Bhadrasiwa signifies the Auspicious Horse. White 
Dragon is held sacred in Chinese religion, Folk-lore and art, and 
Bidrashva signified China. Bharatavarsha was alsa known as 
Haimavata Varsha, south of the Himalayas; Ketumla was the land 
of the Vankshu River (Oxus) towards the west of Meru; Uttarkurt 
was the vast region from the Altai Mountain to the northern 
ocean. 

Meru is said to be four-cornered in which an important 
epithet is used, Viz. that Meru is similar to prajapati in being four- 
faced. The eastern face is white denoting Brahminical virtues, 
the southern face is yellow denoting Vaishyas, the western, black 
denotes Sudras, and the northern, red denotes Kshatriyas. The 
centre where Meru itself is situated is called Iavrita. 

Let us now concentrate on “Bharatavarsha’ and notice why 
and how this country was instrumental in the creation of the 
Vedariga Astrology. We quote Visit Purana once again: 

“The country that lies north of the ocean, and south of the 
snowy mountains, is called Bharata, for there dwelt the 
descendants of Bharata. It is nine thousand leagues in extent, 
and is the land of Karma, in consequence of which men either go 
to heaven, or obtain emancipation.” 

The eulogy of Bharata consisted of four ideas: 


1. There is no country like Bharata on earth. 
2. That Bharata is even higher, superior to heaven, since the 
Gods of heaven wish to take birth in Bharata. 


i4 Introduction to Astrology 


3. That Bharata is karma-bhooni, the land for performing, 
action. 

4. That for all the fruits of human life, the seeds are sown 
in the soil of Bharata. 


That Bharata is karma-bhoomi and Surga is bhoga-bhoont 


became a wide spread idea to which many great writers of the 
period make direct reference: 


Yfuent and ad adeyfisarean 
(Bralina Purna, 27.2) 
ae wear fader fierd a fagraa:) 
waft and ad andy qerfsu 
(Adiyatma Ramayana, 6.4.51) 


a warfa ond ad adeagria = 
(Devi Bhagavata, 8.7.34) 


waa adspetery aay fered 


(Markandeya, 57.62). 


ard ama age eferta vatfeaq 

aa adsyirtaa dorfta: qoaqreat:! 

urd wert fayd aa ad vfafisaqu 
(Markandeya, 55, 21-22). 

wna and ad def tereafasgery 

adyida: qa ded def agers 
(Briana Purana, 70.21). 

afofrd agit were ard ag qvaen 

adyfirnt edad wervatifaqu 
(Brahma Purana, 79.24) 


The sages declared Bharatavarsha as karma-bhoomi where men 
could get karma-phala: Karma and the karma-phala are the domain 
of astrology. The persons who declared Bharata as karma-bhoomi 
were alsa obliged to lay down rules that would govern the karma 
and the karma-phala. Hence these sages developed Astrology. 

Bharatavarsha was developed as karma-bhoami by the 


Astrology: Our Heritage 15 


‘penance’ and ‘japa’ of hundreds of Rishis over hundreds of years. 
These persons of immense intellects and foresight, these real 
visionaries then worked out an intricate, though well balanced, 
scheme of ‘Cause and Effect’ where causes could be invisible or 
visible. A scheme of ‘Karmic compensation’ of the good and evil 
actions was also worked out. How the scheme operates and how 
it to be applied is contained in the Vedanga that we know as 
Astrology. 


We have in this lesson seen that: 


(a) Veda are our heritage. Astrology is a Vedanga 

(b) To give shape to evolution and to guide it our Avitaras 
manifested themselves. They are also linked to our 
planets. 

(c) Puranas contain the details about the evolution of 
Astrology which evolved in Bharatavarsha because: 


(i) Bharatavarsha is the designated Karma-bhiumi where 
karma-phala is obtained. 
(ii) Special tapa were done to make it the karma-bhiani. 
(iii) How the karma are to be done in harmony with the 
environment—both physical and mental—and how 
these karma will result in karma-plala is what is 
written down in the Vedaviga called Jyotisha. 


CHAPTER 3 


The Planets, Signs and 
Constellations 


Astrology, in the beginning, was based on constellations. The 
constellations are visible in the sky. They are located is the Zodiac. 
Zodiac is elliptical. The ecliptic (Sun’s apparent path around the 
sky, which is the mean planc of Earth’s orbit around this sun) 
cuts the celestial equator at an angle of 234°. The constellation 
at this point is Ashwini. This is also the beginning of the sign 
ARIES. Fer the sake of convenience, this point has been arbitrarily 
taken as the point where the Zodiac commences. This is also 
called the first point of Aries. All measurements of the Zodiac 
commence from this point. 

Our Rishis divided the 360° of the Zodiac into 27 segments 
of 13°20' each. Each of these 27 segments is one “Nakshatra”. The 
main star in this segment is taken for naming this Nakshiatra. 
Moon, one an average, takes one day to traverse one Nakshatra 
of 13°20'. We are also aware that the planets orbit the Sun 
remaining in the Zodiac. Their position at any time can be very 
accurately determined with reference to these constellations. The 
planets and the constellations, both are visible is the skies hence 
Jyotisha is a science'that can be shown physically. It is the eyes of 
the Veda. 

In the course of time Zodiac was divided is 12 equal segments 
of 30° each. Each segment was called a Zodiacal sign (Rashi), 
Since this division of Zodiac was arbitrary; i.e. it was not related 

“to any visible Jand mark in the Zodiac, the planetary positions 
retained the reference to the constellations. 

The Rishi, who expounded the Jyotisha Shastra empirically, 
save the details of results that are expected due to the placement 


The Planets, Signs and Constellations 17 


of planets in a particular constellation. The entire edifice of 
Jyotisha was constellation based and to this edifice was, for case 
of handling, added the Zodiacal signs or Rashi. 

The constellations and the planets are visible in the skies but 
the signs are not. There are no landmarks indicating a sign. The 
story in the Vamana Purana has an interesting account of it. Once 
Devrishi Narada asked Pulastya Rishi the reasons of Sati, th 
daughter of Prajapati Daksha and the wife of Shankara Bhagwan, 
embracing death and then getting reincarnated as the daughter of 
Himalaya to wed the same Shankara Bhagwan once again. 

Pulastya Rishi recounted the tale of the Daksha Yagna. On th 
auspicious Devothapint Ekadasht, when the Gods wake up, Daksha 
invited all the Gods, the Risiis along with their wives to 
participate in a Yagna. Vashistha and Arundhati, Atri and Anusuya, 
Kaushika and Dhriti, Gautama and Ahalya, Bhardwaj and Amaya, 
Angira and Chandra came happily to participate. Sati came alone 
and uninvited to her father’s Yagna. Diksha insulted Bhagwan 
Shankara and a sad and angry daughter chose to end her life 
rather then be a witness to the insult. She did so. An infuriated 
Shankara Bhagwan destroyed the Yagua of Daksha. 

Pulastya Rishi, on a further query by Narada explains the 
“Kaal-roopa” of Bhagwan Shankara. He says:- 

“Listen to the description of Shankara Bhagwan’s “Kaal roopa”. 
Astnvini, Bharani and one charana of Kritika combine to form Mesha 
sign. This is Shankara Bhagwan's head. The lord of Ashwini is 
Ashwini Kumara. The lord of Bharani is Yama (the lord of death). 
Kriltka’s lord is Agni (Fire). This sign is owned by Mars. The 
details, as given by Pulastya Rishi, are tabulated in table 1 (a,b,c) 
for ease of understanding. 

This study of constellations, planets and Rash brings out the 
importance of constellations and their lords. We are aware of 
the fact the Moon traverses one constellation in a day. We also 
know that 3rd, the Sth and the 7th constellations, counted from 
our Janma Nakshatra, give adverse results. We should note the 
sunrise time, find out the constellation prevailing at the sun- 
rise time and if it is the 3rd (vipata) 5" (Pratthari) or 7th (Vadha), 
we should pray to the Devata of that Nakshatra. This is the 
practical application of astrology. 


Body Part 


Arms 


Shoulders 


Rashi and its Lord 


Aries (Ma rs) 


Taurus (Venus) 


Gemini (Mercury) 


Cancer (Moon) 


TABLE 1 (A) 


Constellations 


Ashwini (4 Pada = 13°20’) 
Bharini (4 Pada = 13°20') 

Kritika (1 Pada= —3°20') 
(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Kritika (3 Pada) 
Rohini (4 Pada) 
Mrigashira (2 Pada) 

(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Mrigashira (2 Pada) 
Aridra (4 Pada) 

Punarvasu (3 Pada) 
(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Punarvasu (1 Pada) 
Pushya (4 Pada) 
Ashilesha (4 Pada) 
(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Tutelary lord of the 
constellation 
Ashwini Kumara 


Yama 
Agni 


Agni 
Brahma 
Chandra (Moon) 


Chandra (Moon) 
Shiva 
Aditi 


Aditi 
Brihaspati 
Sarpa 


$l 


ASojoaysy of uorsnpoapy 


TABLE 1 (B) 


Tutelary lord of the 
constellation 


Constellations 


Rashi and its Lord 


Body Part 


5 Leo (Sun) Magha (4 Pada) Pitra 
Purva Phalguni (4 Pada) Bhaga (Sun) 
Uttra Phalguini (1 Pada) Aryama (Sun) 


(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Uttra Phalguani (3 Pada) 
Hastam (4 Pada) 


Chitra (2 Pada) 
(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Aryama (Sun) 
Sun 
Twashta (Vishiwwakarma) 


Stomach 


Virgo (Mercury) 


Libra (Venus) Chitra (2 Pada) Twashta (Vishivakarma) 
Swati (4 Pada) Pawan (Air) 


Vishakha (3 Pada) Indragni (Fire of Indra) 
(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 
Vishakha (1 Pada) 
Anuradha (4 Pada) 
Jyestha (4 Pada) 
(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


a | 


Indragni (Fire of Indra) 
Mitra (Sun) 
Indra 


Lower Scorpio (Mars) 


Abdomen 


SHOLDPAPSUOA PUY SUSTIS ‘SLU IYL 


ol 


TABLE 1(C) 


Constellations 


S.No. | Body Part Rashi and its Lord 

9 Genitals Sagittarius (Jupiter) 
Purva Ashadha (4 Pada) 

10 Thighs Capricorn (Saturn) 

11 Legs Aquarius (Saturn) 

12 Feet Pisces (Jupiter) 


Moola (4 Pada) 


Jala (Water) 


Uttra Ashadha (1 Pada) 


(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Uttra Ashadha (3 Pada) 
Shravana (4 Pada) 
Dhanistha (2 Pada) 

(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 
Dhanistha (2 Pada) 
Shatabhisaj(4 Pada) 

Purva Bhadrapada (3 Pada) 
(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Purva Bhadrapada (1 Pada) 
Uttra Bhadrapada (4 Pada) 
Revati (4 Pada) 


(Total 9 Pada or 30°) 


Tutelary lord of the 
constellation 


Raksha (Demons) 


Vishwadeva 


Vishwadeva 
Vishitu 
Vasu 


Vasu 
Varuna 
Ek-pada-aja (Shiva) 


Ek-pada-aja (Shiva) 
Altirabudhnya (Shiva) 
Pusha (Sun) 


ASopossy OF UONINpo.Lpty 


CHAPTER 4 


Astrology 
the Harmonizer 


The earliest writings of our cultural heritage tell us of the vision 
and foresight of our forefathers. Ta us they bequeathed the 
following ideas: 


(a) Man is a creature of action. To act is to live. 

(b) An action must produce a reaction. This is universal. The 
beauty of Vedic thought is that action and reaction need 
not be tied to one another as is on the physical plane. A 
reaction can lie dormant and can surface later - a part of a 
well conceived design, but, seperated in essence of karma 
and karmia-phala. 

(c) The man has an innate desire to know his future—how far 
can the fragile man with flawed intellectual equipment 
understand or take it—therefore a limit up to which he 
could be made privy in this divine scheme had to be built 
into Astrology. 

(d) The essence of living is harmony. A man in harmony with 
his environment, with his work, with his desires and with 
his family can lead a meaningful life. Astrology is the 
science that helps a man in harmonizing his life. 


Astrology is action oriented. It came up as a Vedanga because 
Bharatavarsha was declared as “karmia-bhoomi”; where “karmia- 
phala” was readily available. 

Bharatavarsha is the karma-bhoomt which was developed and 
sanctified by Tapa and penances. It is the only country where 
the entire population goes for Tirtha on time bound basis. In 
Shiva Purana bathing in certain rivers is linked with visible 


ate ee ge aS eS Lee ee: 


astronomical phenomenon. The placement of the Sun and Jupiter 
in specified signs is considered specially auspicious. When these 
two are in Aquarius and Taurus the populace is directed to have 
bath in the Ganges at Allahabad. When Jupiter is in Leo and Sun 
comes to Aquarius people are directed to bathe in the Godavari. 
This was part of a well thought out plan where the people from 
various parts of the country could meet and where people could 
pray in groups thereby giving social sanction to good deeds. 
Bharata was, therefore, the karma-bhumi with a difference. Here 
one could indulge in self-less work and work for one’s progress 
and enlightenment without being laughed at. To do this, i.e. to 
rise towards self-improvement and taking first steps to self 
realization, one needs to harmonize his desires with his 
capabilities. This is what is at the back of all philosophy 
concerning Karima, Karma-phala and is, in any horoscope, 
expressed through the integrated medium of houses whose 
epicenter is the 10th House—the “karma-bhava". 

Let us now examine a horoscope and see how 
harmonization of desires with capabilities can be achieved. 


5 
9 8 7 6 
MARS | VEN SUN MERC 
KETU | MOON 


The man, belonging to this horoscope, is Dwight D 
Eisenhower—he commanded the largest ever army assembled 
in one place nearly 3,000,000 troops in the Second World War 
for operation ‘Overlord’, the Allied invasion of Europe that was 
to result in the German surrender, which he accepted on May 7, 
1945. He rose to be the Chief of the American Army and more 


Astrology the Harmonizer 23 


8 7 
MARS SUN 


importantly the President of the United States for two 
consecutive terms in 1952 and 1956. 

This man achieved the highest goal that could be there in 
worldly terms. Let us study the harmonizing process. The 
horoscope is power packed. At this stage in ‘Jyotisha Alankar’ it 
is sufficient to know that in this horoscope’s most notable power 
giving combinations are. 


(a) ‘Vargottama’ Ascendant and the Sun. 

(b) A strong Mars, ‘Dig Bali’ in the 10th house. 

(c) Eight Planets from Saturn to Jupiter, in consecutive houses 
in an unbroken sequence. 

(d) The maximum number of planets are from 7th house 
onward. 

(e) The lords of the houses from 5th house to 9th house are in 
advancing position i.e. 5th Jord in 8th, 7th lord in 7th, 8th 
lord in 9th, 9th lord in 10th, 10th lord in 11th resulting in 
continuous progress. 

(f) There are two Vipareeta Rajayoga viz. 12" Lord Saturn in 
the 6" House makes “ Viniala” and the 6"" Lord Sun in the 
8" House makes “Harsha” Rajayoga. 

(g) Gaja Kesari yoga : 

(h) Neecha Bhanga Raj Yoga 

(i} Bhadra Mahapurusha Yoga. 

(j) Vest Yoga. 


24 Introduction to Astrology 


(k) Suatpha Yoga 
(I) Durudhura Yoga 


Mars, the 2nd and the 9th lord is in the 10th house. Mars is Dig 
Raliin the 10th house. Tenth house is the “kenmna-bhava”. Mars in 
the 10th house makes one a commander of Army. “Bhaume Sabale 
Senapati” (Jataka Tatva, 7th Viveka, 11th shloka). Eisenhower 
belonging to a family with no military traditions chooses an 
Army career. 
Now comes the harmonizing. The Dasha at birth is Rafi with 
a 7years 10 months 6 days balance. It is followed by the Dasha of 
Jupiter who is the 10th lord, debilitated in the 11th house. The 
debilitation may give a meager start but the cancellation gives a 
remarkable rise. This is followed by the Dasha of Saturn, the lord 
of 11th and 12th in 6th house; 12th lord in 6th causes Viparceta 
Raja yoga (Vimala Yoga) showing professional betterment. By and 
large a preparatory period. The horoscope is power-packed but 
for nearly 45 years the man gets nowhere—he is a nun-descript 
lowly Major till 1935. These 45 years are the period where the 
desires generated by the power packed horoscope could easily 
have impaired the judgment, while the need was to control the 
runaway desires, and harmonizing them ina matched duet with 
the unfolding Dasln sequence. This is the period of trial—the 
examination by Saturn—the wisest and the hardest task master. 
It was after this trial only that this man could withstand the 
dizzy spiral in Mercury Dasha. Mercury is exalted; 7th lord in 
the 7th house giving him Bhadra Mala Purusha Yoga. In Mercury- 
Mars he commanded the biggest army and scores of officers who 
were his erstwhile commanders. Mars is the 2nd lord both from 
the Lagna and the Moon and when he came with Mercury, the 
“karaka” of speech, the entire world waited with bated breath to 
hear and applaud every word spoken by this native. 
‘Karma-phala’ is to be harmonized through ‘karia-bhava’, 
the 10th house. In this horoscope it is Sagittarius, a fiery sign, 
with Mars, a fiery planet, in it. A dazzling army career results. 
‘Tenth house is owned by Jupiter, the planet of wisdom. The lord 
of the 10th house, Jupiter, in Kendra from the Moon (lord of Sth) 
torming a Gaja Kesari Yoga. Jupiter aspecting Sth (mind) and 7th 
(position), the native got highest position due to his wisdom 


Astrology the Harmonizer 25 


and valour (Mars, 9th lord in 10th; 3rd lord Venus in 9th). Such 
horoscopes are rare and their ‘Karma-phala’ is unusual, 
tremendous and dazzling. The karma-phala is to be channclised 
through Mars—the planet occupying the Meridian. The man in 
perfect harmony with his designated karmic pattern joins the 
army and patiently waits for the Mercury Dasha-exalted Mercury 
in 10th from Mars and Mars in 10th house from the ascendant 
propel him to the pinnacle, bathed in glory and accolades. Eight 
planets in a row couldn’‘t have done less. 

He rose to be the President of the United States of America- 
the single most powerful office in the world in Kecu Dasha. Ketu 
is acting on behalf of Mars. Ketu in 9th house and in the house 
of Mars, the 9th lord is posited in the 10th house. 

What one has to understand is that one must dovetail one’s 
activities to the karmic pattern as revealed by the horoscope. 
There are periods when work is recognized; periods when 
accolades flow and also there are periods of frustration and ennui 
when nothing goes right. To be able to look at things in a balanced 
way—neither getting too elated with good fortune nor getting 
depressed with misfortunes is the essence of Astrology. Do not 
push when pull will open the door, harmonize your actions, and 
make all round efforts when the time is ripe. This is the rationale 
of Astrology. 


CHAPTER 5 


What is Jyotisha? 


aert frar wag ArT sora zal 

agearsyerearon wafers weit fer 
(Like the plumes of a Peacock and the "Mani" of a Serpent, 
Jyotish Shastra is the crown of Vedangas) 


When out ancestors looked at the skies, a host of enquires 
must have risen in their hearts. It is only a progressive mind 
that enquires; it is only an enquiring mind that reaches for the 
sky and talks to the stars. Our forefathers with simple living 
habits and pure minds must also have wondered why the Moon 
on “Sharada Purnima” shines so soothingly and Sun in Jyeshtha 
shines so cruelly; they also must be wanting to talk to the stars 
and reach for the sky. The desire to know what the stars have to 
tell us leads to the initial steps in the direction of the discipline 
now knownas Astrology. Astrology is the language (LOGOS) of 
the Stars (ASTER) Aster stands for stars and logos is language 
therefore astrology is the derivative of these two words. 

Astrology is commonly called the Shastra which tells us the 
facts about the planets. “Jyotisham Suryadi grahana bodhakam 
shastram” (Safa Was geo awa wel) This is a very common 
saying it means that the science which makes the people know 
about Sun and the other stars and planets and understand them 
is astrology. it is the science of time that records the life and its 
reactions to planetary radiations. 

Astrology comprises of “Skandhtraya” (144). These three 
Shaundita are Hora, Samhita and Ganita. Ganita is also called 


What is Jyotisha? 27 


Siddhanta. Let us look at these in some details: Siddiuntta first. 
The mathematics of astrology is basically Siddhauta. Generally 
we come across five Siddhantas. They are: 


— 


. Pitantaha 

. Vashishtha 

. Lamasha 

. Paulisha and 
. Surya 


Mm wh 


These Siddhantas are of use in the preparation of mathematical 
tables, the almanacs or the Panchanga. 

Now we look at the other Skandha, Hora. The word is a 
compound of AHO and RATRI. The two words shed one syllable 
each; AHO sheds the first syllable and RATRI sheds the last 
syllable making the word HORA. Hora concerns itself with the 
nativities. It works on the basis of planetary positions at the time 
of the happening of an event. It lays down the rules for 
predictions. 

Samhita deals with the planetary effects on nature and 
collective issues of the mankind. Things like rains, weather, 
epidemics, floods, mundane part of astrology as a matter of fact 
Samhita truly talks of Kings and Cabbages. 

Mr. K.N. Rao explains the Skandhtraya (Fh) as under: 

‘Astrology is an all encompassing subject—it is the science 
of sciences because it deals with the influence of planets on man 
and his entire world.’ It is why astrology has been divided into 
three branches: 

(a) Ganita Jyotisha (Siddhanta): It is what is called 
astronomy now. It is the calculation of the movement of 
planets. 

Astronomy has no use for mankind unless it is made use of 
for predicting the influence of planets on man and his world, a 
fact modern astronomer has not been able to appreciate. The 
astronomer, taking an un-holistic attitude of the world, persists 
with his attitude; An un-holistic attitude is an unholy attitude, a 
disintegrated view of the world-in which everything has to 
interact with everything, be it animate or inanimate. 


28 hitroduction to Astrology 


We will have to wait a few more decades to see the 
astronomer adopt a different attitude and understand that 
Jyotisha Shastra has more important branches which deal with 
the predicative side which alone are useful to mankind, very 
illuminating and effectively useful, than an astronomer’s fanciful 
flight into an impossible search for an explanation of the origin 
of the universe. 

. (b)Samhita (Mundane): It is the branch of astrology dealing 
with collectivities, nor individuals, excepting those very 
important persons whose position and policies affect the 
contemporary societies. 

Do planets effect economic policies, the social weltare 
programmes of the government, involve a nation ina war, show 
those rare and strange events which others cannot anticipate of 
foresee? The answer is an emphatic Yes. Instances are available 
that go to show that what is being claimed above is supported 
with substantial proof, unlike an astronomer’s baseless criticism 
of astrology or even of those physical scientists who signed 
statements against astrology on ‘religious grounds’. It has 
amused many astrologers that in a country like the U.S.A. there 
could exist a bunch of distinguished scientists who, instead of 
studying astrology and examining its predictive uses, should 
have objected to it on religious grounds. What then is scientific 
about these scientists is what everyone asks. 

(c) Hora (Individual) : Hora astrology is the most popular 
branch of astrology because it deals with predictions about 
individuals, their happiness and unhappiness, their 
achievements and failures, their hopes and despairs as well as 
every other facet of life. 


SKANDHA PANCHA (27 ) 


Apart from above three limbs, with the development of astrology, 
two more things were added to its folds, namely Shakuna (3144) 
and Prashna (8&4) making it Skandha Paucha—Siddhanta, Hora, 
Smuhita, Prashua and Shakuna. These are now said to be the five 
parts of the body of Astrology. 


What ts Jyotisha? 29 
Shakuna (Omens) 


It well remains a debatable question as to how far ‘Shakuna 
should be treated as a part of astrology for it is not directly based 
on planetary movements generally. Shakespeare had intuitively 
realized appearances of comets in the following words: 

“When beggars die there are no comets seen. The heavens 
themselves blaze forth on the death of Princes”. 


Horary Astrology (3%) 


Horary astrology is based on the chart of the time of 
communication of a question by the questioner to the astrologer. 
This is specially useful for those who do not have horoscopes 
and want to know about certain specified questions. 

Some are inclined to include Anga Shastra of Kerala-the 
querist touching any part of his body, or naming of one or the 
other flower and answering question on the basis of these. But 
as these are not based directly or apparently on astronomical 
positions af planets, it is difficult to accept these systems in 
Horary Astrology. 

Thus ‘Shakuna’ and ‘Prashua’ should be treated as part of 
astrology only so long as they are directly or indirectly but 
apparently based on astronomical positions, and not beyond this 
line of demarcation. 


‘Clairvoyance’ and ‘Intuition’: not part of Astrology 


Neither ‘Clairvoyance’ (the power of seeing things not perceived 
to the senses), nor ‘intuition’ (the power of the mind by which it 
immediately perceives the truth of things without reasoning or 
analysis) could be a part of Astrology. A truth so perceived is no 
part of astrology, though it may be helpful in making predictions 
and observations. Reason is that they do not apparently conform 
to the astronomical basis of astrology. Therefore, perhaps, in 
Skandha-Pancha neither ‘clairvoyance’ nor ‘intuition’ has been 
included. 

Astrology, rooted in classical texts, is based on precise 
calculations, mathematically infallible. It cannot go wrong. 


30 Introduction to Astrology 


trouble starts when this divine dispensation is given to human 
beings to operate. Each astrologer takes out from this divine cup 
of knowledge what he deserves. It is the astrologer who needs 
to come up to the standards of Astrology otherwise he would be 
like hundreds of practitioners who are no better than humanized 
parrots pulling out ‘cards of fortune’ on the road side. 


CHAPTER 6 


An Astrologer—Qualifications 


Maharishi Parashara—the leading light of ‘Kaliyuga’ Astrologers— 
has laid down the virtues and qualities that an Astrologer needs 
to have. These are given in Brihata Parashara Hora Shastra (Ch. 
27, Sh. 39 and 40). They are reproduced below: 


aforerg watort a: weayired Hasna: 

waafag gRenr, emfgacregt frarga:1 

PRINT-VTeR MHI sal WATT: 

tia! weal afa wea aed A deen 
[Ganiteshu Praveeno Yeh, Shabdshastre Kritshramah 
NyayavidBuddhiman, Deshdikkalagyo, Jitendriya 
Oohapoh patur Hora Skandha Shravan Sammatah. 
Maitreya Satyatam Yati Tasya Vakyam na Sanshayah.] 
Let us examine them in detail. 


Mathematical ability (afdgq sd): An astrologer must be able 
to cast a horoscope, its divisional charts, the dasha, Ashatkavarga 
at the barest minimum. In these days of computers, it is all the 
more necessary because computers using different software 
contain different errors that need to be found out and set right. 
There are so many occasions when a horoscope needs to be cast 
and computer’s assistance is not available. Mathematical 
competence is the bedrock of the Astrological edifice. 

A diligent linguist (qexmet HAH): Astrologers’ quest is 
unending. The more he knows, the greater is his understanding. 
He has to listen to his consulters and explain to them—language 
is an asset. Hard work, diligence separates a dedicated: astrologer 


32 Introduction to Astrology 


from a hobbyist. Having mastery over language eases grasp ot 
varying nuances of an axiomatic astrological “Sutra”. 

Nyayavida (=ratag): An astrologer needs to have the judicial 
balance so that he can synthesize conflicting indications of 
planetary witnesses and yet reach a sound Judgment. It is to 
guide an astrologer in the development of judicial balance that 
a “Guru” is needed; for the texts are replace with contradictory 
interpretations. 

Buddhimana (afer): An intellect that is probing, sharp and 
alive makes an astrologer vie with his own self for constant 
improvement. One who makes constant improvements, specially 
learning from mistakes is really ‘Buddhiman’. 

Deshdikkalagyo (@aife¢ataat): One needs to be 
knowledgeable about the geography, the traditions, the culture 
and the social conditions that are prevalent in the consulter’s 
area. Without this results can be disastrous. 

Jitendroua (fitza:): An astrologer is privy to consulters’ 
innermost thoughts. He can exploit these thoughts to gain 
monetary, emotional and other advantages. Moral control and 
balance are a must. 

Ooha-Poh patu (Serteug): The ability to look at an event 
from many angles. To illuminate different facets of an issue. To 
synthesize contradictions and conflicting views gives an 
astrologer incisiveness and clarity. 

Hora Skand Shravan Sammatah (& rad Aart AAT:): 
Knowledgeable in Hora Skandha. 


such an astrologer is the one who can predict his words 
bear the imprint of truth. 

We now take a look at Mr. K.N. Rao’s lucid and pointedly 
brief exposition of the qualifications of an astrologer as given 
by Varahamihira. 

The qualifications given by Varahamihira of a good 
astrologer are briefly : 


1. Purity: It is when there is inner purity that the reflection of 
planets on the heart stirs the rarest springs of intuition and 
then the astrologer with his saturated technical knowledge 


ty 


10. 


11. 


An Astrologer-Qualifications 33 


can proceed to interpret a horoscope, with humility and 
clarity of vision. 

Efficiency: There is a technical and intellectual efficiency 
in approach ta a super-science. 

Gift of Gab: An astrologer should have right commanil 
over language through which he conveys his 
interpretations, and as a sympathetic counselor, guides 
properly his clients. 

Brilliance: An astrologer has to interpret a very vast data 
and come to a sound conclusion. It cannot be done in 
lackadaisical fashion and a perfunctory way. 

With inner quietude: He is like a yogi with his Chitta 
having been purified. It is necessary so that he does not 
get disturbed when he sees some alarming planetary 
combinations in a horoscope. 

Fearless speech: Armed with a sound astrological insight 
into a horoscope he should have the ability to speak 
fearlessly in any assembly. 

Should be able to hold his own in any company: In the 
company of other brilliant men he should be able ta hold 
his own, and not to be eclipsed. 

Capacity to interpret signs and omens: A psychologist 
observes these days as his patient walks in, sits down, and 
talks and infers a good dea} about him. In astrology it has 
been an age-oid practice. The Psychologist has only 
borrowed the astrologer’s technique without ever openly 
acknowledging it. 

Freedom from addiction: An addict disintegrates mentally; 
how can he then be of use to others? 

Knowledge of Mantras for propitiation of planets: 
Astrology is linked to spiritual remedies which are 
based on Mantras. An astrologer should know the use of 
these Mantras for restoring clam and peace ta disturbed 
minds. 

Capacity to counter evil forces: There are evil practices 
indulged in by some persons to harm somvane through 
Tantrik practices like Abhichar, Sammohan ete. An 
astrologer’s should also know how to counter this. 


34 Iutroduction to Astrology 


12, Should bea spiritual person: An astrologer must himself 
lead a spiritual, disciplined life. 

13. Capacity to put intelligent questions: An astrologer should 
be able to elicit very helpful answers from persons and to 
interpret a horoscope deeply. 

14. Useful Forewarning: An astrologer should give a very 
useful forewarning to a person and advice him properly 
as to the right precautionary measures that should be taken. 

15. Depth of astrological knowledge: There should be a deep 
understanding of the astrological principles and their 
applications to a given horoscope. 


Given here is a bricf summary of the qualifications given by 
Varalunihira which makes it clear that an astrologer is actually a 
versatile, scientist, intellectual, spiritual, psychologist and above 
all an illuminating guide. 

Such astrologers must be rare that have all these 
qualifications. But those who have some of these great 
qualifications can do so much to help the society. 

The time has come for the revival of such a great tradition. 
Science and technology have disturbed spiritual traditions of 
man and have now produced that fragmented, neurotic and 
despairing man, who begins to grope in an emotional void. 
Modern society hardly provides filial and emotional warmth 
provided by an orthodox gout family of yore which was a man’s 
biggest psychological compensation and emotional! need. 

It is here, that a true and an honest astrologer can be of 
immense value to the changing society of our times. 

These are Sage Parashara and Varhmihira’s words and these 
qualifications need to be striven for by every one desiring to be 
an astrologer. There are no short cuts. If we succeed in imbibing 
even 4-5 of the above qualifications we can call ourselves 
aspirants to the title of Astrologer. Our efforts to improve 
ourselves and imbibe as many of the above qualifications as we 
can, must continue forever. 


CHAPTER 7 


Utility of Astrology 


Astrology is the eye of wisdom (af Ararary ay). It has always 
been held in great esteem as an honoured discipline. All activities 
in any spehere, be it social, cultural, political or religious; jain 
by the advice of a Jyotirvidya. 

In this chapter we are concentrating on the utility of 
Astrology for Hora Skandha that is dealing with the individuals. 

The study of the utiliy of Astrology is proposed to be carried 
out in 3 parts as under: 


(a) Future planning, 
(b) Enrichment of life and 
(c) Maximising of gainful efforts. 


Future Planning 


This is the area where the utility of astrology stands out in bold 
relief. In future planning the help of Astrology could be in any 
field, however, here only three areas-education, profession and 
marriage are being taken up to highlight the utility of astroloyy. 


Education and Career Counselling 


We live in a world where visual media has devloped 
phenominally. The T.V./ internet invasion is causing a serious 
concern.The children are neglecting their studies and are petting, 
exposed to exciting and immoral influences.The young dream 
of escapisim, get rich quick, violence and questionable romantic 
escapades. This places an immense social burdern on an 
astrologer. He can help the parents in so briging, up their children 


36 Introduction to Astrology 


that the children can adjust with the T.V./ Internet invasion and 
yet not loose their cultural and religious moorings. A horoscope 
that is weak and is having the Dashas that are likely to promote 
waywardness, violence and voluptuousness needs to be shored 
up by inculcation of religion, prayers and good deeds very early 
in the life. We all are aware that by the time a child is five years 
old his “Sanskars” are ingrained in his subconscious brain. This 
is the period where an asrologer’s advise can be invaluable. It 
can correct a future wayward, drug addicted young person. 

For young students which vacation to choose is an area where 
astrologer’s help can point the direction where their inherent 
inclinations and their work coincide. Harmony between what 
one loves to do and what one is actually doing is a blessing which 
can be granted by an astrologer. 

In this competitive world astrology is of immense utility in 
guiding parents in the upbringing of children, guiding students 
to choose the vocation best suited to their inclinations and then 
guiding them in proper advancement of their careers. 


Professions 


Astrology’s utility in guidance for professions is immense. An 
astrologer can study the inclinations and foretell the likely 
fructifications and draw up a career profile. He can indicate the 
lean periods, and the periods of rise. Astrology can pinpoint the 
time when a man will be first paid for his work—the First Salary‘s 
earning. All these have been dealt in great details in the Book 
“Astrology of Professions”-by Col.A.K. Gour, which should be 
persused for deeper insight. 


Marriage 


A compatible match, likly date of marriage and the happiness 
thereafter is what any parent would like to know about his 
children’s marriage, specially girls. The marriage can be timed 
fairly accurately by an astrologer. The utility of knowing this 
event is immense specially in the present times when marriages 
entail huge financial outlays. 


Utility of Astrology 37 


The utility of Astrology is in its ability to do reliable planning 
for a blissful conjugal life and this is a great gift to the mankind 
by our sages who propounded this amazing science. 


Enriching Life 


There is a popular couplet: 


aa 4 oira va at, Ga Tat a 
@ ga 4% afer wt, ga ae ar Rat 


It is astrology which, with ease, picks out your good and bail 
periods. It is the right manner of utilising the astrological 
knowledge. Invest in spirituality when the going is good so that 
you have enough savings when the going gets bad. Look at itin 
another way. A man’s ideal prayer to God could be “O God grant 
me the wisdom to change what I canand give met he courage to 
bear what ] cannot change”. The utility of astrology stares one 
in the face. It is an astrologer’s domain to be able to descern 
what can be changed and what cannot be. Just reflect on the 
profound depth of this prayer and then see how tremendously 
useful an astrologer is. 


Maximising of Gainful Efforts 


Astrology’s utility is exploited to the fullest when actions are so 
organised that they make maximum use of a good period. If an 
astrologer forecasts the date of marriage of a gir] the parents can 
with confidence double their efforts in that period to find a 
suitable groom. A good period for competitions can, ina similar 
fashion be used to score professional successes. The utility of 
Astrology lies in increasing the efforts for the likely events. This 
would maximise the gainful efforts. 

Our knowledge is limited. All the scientists and men of 
knowledge agree that there are so many phenomenons that we 
can know only vaguely. 

Einstein was very succinct when he described the 
advancement of knowledge as “extracting one incomprehensible 
from another incomprehensible”. An astrologer would agree 


38 Introduction to Astrology 


with the intellectual who said “We do not run this place; it runs 
itself. We are a part of running”. The utility of astrology lies in 
adapting oneself to the running and in making timely efforts to 
change what one can and stoically bearing what one cannot 
change. 


CHAPTER 8 


History of Astrology 


History is a systematic account of the origin and progress of an 
event, nation, heritage or science—literally anything. It’s worth 
lies in its truthfulness. In the erstwhile Soviet Union the zealots 
of communism regularly rewrote and rearranged history to suit 
their political needs. This gave rise to saying “In Russia, it is 
impossible to predict the Past”. A mere seven decade rule could 
do that great a damage in Russia, just imagine our plight because 
we have been ruled by culturally different people for nearly five 
centuries and are tracing the history of a science, that is, like the 
Vedas, is anaadi—(without a beginning). A daunting task—but 
an unexamined heritage tends to decay. 

Our examination of this heritage is laid out in the following 
parts :- 


(a) Part I Difficulties in tracing 

(b) Part II Astrological dating techniques 

(c) Part II] Outline division into different periods 
(d) Part IV The periods in details 


PART -I 


Astrology isa precise, intellectual science. Its history should, 
therefore, be capable of very accurate and reliable chronological 
recording. It is not so. The reasons are: 


Shrutt and Snritt 


Printing and papers are recent innovations. In the past all 
knowledge was stored in memory. It was ‘fa’ (Smriti). The 


40 Introduction to Astrology 


knowledgable memorised phenomenal details. All the 
knowledge was passed on by the word of mouth ‘ ¥fa'(Shruti). 
This led to inaccuracies and aberrations in the various accounts. 


Cultural Assault 


Our heritage and culture has faced the assault of culturally 
primitive and boorish invaders for close to five centuries. They 
burnt, pillaged and plundred the cultural heritage with total 
impunity. Not satisfied with this, they rearranged and rewrote 
our history to suit their primitive and nascent cultural needs. 


Shortcomings of interpreters 


The major tragedy of the nation has been the degradation and 
havoc caused by the educational policies of ‘Macaulay’. He 
ensured that the educated Indian was a mere ‘Clerk’ having no 
regard for the ‘Values’—a materialistic, cultural ignoramus. . 
Added to this has been the dominance of a few vociferous 
‘Indologists’ whose interpretations of the Sanskrit text in English 
was given prominence. These interpreters, mostly Europeans, 
came from a religious and cultural background whose beliefs 
were different, and which believed that the universe came into 
being merely 3000 years before Christ (BC). The entire history 
was therefore condensed; ungainly, wrongly and incongruously 
into a 3000 years BC time frame. 


Immoral Astrologers 


The astrologers in the past one hundred years or so have shown 
neither honesty not integrty in their astrological writings. 
Dedicated hard work and research Parashara’s ‘pay’ (hard 
work), were given up and these persons took undue importance 
in stunning the people with an odd uncanny prediction. They 
played with the chronology to suit their needs thus creating 
doubts about the correct order of the devlopment of this science. 


PART - II 
THE DATING TECHNIQUES 


We are going to discuss two dating techniques: 


History of Astrology 41 


(a) Precession of Equinoxes and 
(b) Astrological records of major events. 


Precession of Equinoxes 


Due to the wobble of the Earth’s axis the eqinoctial point recedes 
by approximately 50.3" every year. The position of a equinoctial 
point in constellation discloses the chronological period. The 
equinoctial point precesses by 1° (one degree) in 72 years, one 
constelletion (13°20') in 960 years and one sign (30°) in 2,160 years 
approximatley. 

India is an agricultural country. Agriculture cepends on rains. 
Since times urmemorial the Summer Solstice (the beginning of 
the Sun’s southward journey from the Tropic of Cancer) has been 
connected with the onset of rains. Let us understand it with an 
example - The Sun entered Cancer (tropical) on June 21, 2000 at 
07:18 hrs IST. Sun was in Mrigashira Nakshatra (Nirayana). It 
left Mrigashira and entered Ardra on June 21,2000 at 20:32 hrs 
IST. If we can get the data of the Summer Solstice of any era its 
period can be fixed. 

According to the research of Dr. Padmakar Vishnu Vartak of 
Pune, the rains during the Riga Vedic period used to commence 
when the Sun would be in Mrigashira. This indicates the period 
as 27 nakshatras x 960 years =25,920 years from now when rains 
again commenced when the Sun is in Mrigshira. Riga Vedic 
period, therefore, can be fixed at 25,920 — 2000 = 23,920 years BC. 
We are not certain where exactly the Solstice was in the Mrigshira 
Nakshatra. An error of 960 years is probable and can be narrowed 
down-by further research. 


Astrological Records 


It has been our tradition that all major events are recorded 
astrologically. Lord Rama's birth was recorded by Sage Valmiki 
in his immortal work Ramayana. 

We now have the advantage of softwares that are capable of 
displaying the actual positions of the stars and planets in the 
sky on any chosen day for any chosen city. One such software is 
planetarium Gold. Using this software and the information given 


42 Introduction to Astrology 


in Valnuiki Ramayana researcher Pushkar Bhatnagar found the 
date of Lord Rama’s birth as 5,114 BC and that of Mahabharata 
as 3,137 BC. This and othér developments are ushering us into 
an era of understanding our past in a historically accurate 
prespective. 


PART - III 


OUTLINE PERIODS 


Far convenience and ease of study, the history of Astrology can 
be divided into the following periods: 


1. The Vedic Period 4. The Varahamihiric Period 
2. The Puranic Period 5. The Present period 
3. The Parashari period 


PART -IV 


1. The Vedic Period (23,927 BC-8350 BC) 


Vedas are "anaadi", without a discernible beginning.They contain 
all knowledge, astrology being a Vedanga—a part of Vedas, 
developed with them. It took thousands of years of empirical 
observations and studies before the ‘Rishis’ and sages formulated 
various siilokas, ‘richas' or ‘riks' and ‘sooktas’. 

We have been, as a part of heritage handed over records of 
Astrological shlokas of this period. They are: 


(a) Riga Veda po shlokas 
(b) Yajur Veda 49 shlokas 
(c) Atharva Veda 162 shlokas 


We had begun understanding the planets, their movements & 
their location in the skies. Astronomically we were advancing 
in this period. Our understanding of astrology was in its infancy. 
The most often of quoted shlokas of this period are: 


The 'Diva-adhipatis' (the Lord of the week days are from 
Sun to Saturn respectively.) 
artes at stave cet qe geeatal 
amd yrivata wt agfearfirn: 


History of Astrology 43 


The ‘Janma Nakshatra’ and its co-relation with other 
Nakshatras 
we Worfeod: ara: Wet: areARTal 
ser} fa aiva aoa wa aii 
aya WT weraeetd Aaa Wea 
war fiefs da ater qe 
We teach this order and those very results even today withou! 
any change. 


2. The Puranic Period (8350 BC-3000 BC) 


augedinarea: wyfadat wets 
wfad: firarae: Treg yfaftaa:i 
qaorqaarad ate wrens 
waa asad qa 4a aya: 
4 ae wedant aA wie: aretaifirih 
fafagqfgerat arfa wetrafatrofa: i 
siren fayaatd qa: 1 
aa ge fe dey ad cea aa 
( APART, 30 ,H0 24) 


It is the Puranas which give shape to astrology. This is the reason 
why we call today’s astrolgy as Hindu Astrology. 
This is the period where 18 Pravartaka (jad), the sages who 
further improved the astrological knowledge and spread it far 
and wide, make their appearance. Their contributions are all 
pervading; they wrote Siddhanta (Astronomy and Mathematical 
Astrology) Hora (Jataka or Natal Horscope) and Samuiita 
(Mundane, Meteorological, etc). These Pravartaka are: 


1.Surya 2.Pitamaha 3. Vyasa 4. Vashishta 5. Atri 6.Parashara 
7. Kashyapa 8. Narada 9. Garga 10. Maricha 11. Manu 12. Angira 
13, Lowiasha 14. Paulisha 15. Chyavana 16. Yavana 17. Bhrigu and 
18. Shaunaka 


Astrology during Ramayana 


In Valmiki Ramayana we find extensive mention of Astrology. 
Valiiki Rishi writes:- 


44 Iitroduction to Astrology 


amt at waa q wa we waa: 
Waya grest ara waa arafaey fain cu 
aesfefdad = dreadelq | asa) 
aey wee wt arava agu gil 
wer wend adele) 
wAaeaTAAaTA FEAT GAA Fon 
qa Wee ea eA wea 
ard wrat gq aifint aeitssafea tat eau 
Ue: UT Reva sR yal 
Wadisyeuya sear = Wreaueroar eel 


Six seasons (Ritu) elapsed since the Putreslti yagna. In the 12th 
month, after the yaguia, Bhagwan Rana was barn on Chaitra Sinikla 
Navami in Piotarvasu Nakshatra (Valmiki has called Punarvasu 
as Aditi. Aditi is the Devata of this Nakshatra) when five planets 
were in their exalted /own signs (Saturn in Libra, Venus in Pisces, 
Moon in Cancer, Jupiter in Cancer and Mars in Capricorn) 

Bharata was born in Pushya Nakshatra and had Pisces 
Ascendant. Sumitra gave birth to Lakshmana and Shatrughna who 
were born in Asiileshia Nakshatra, when Sun was in Cancer. 

We are now told by the Adikavi that the four brothers had 
the shine and allure of “Prosht-pada” (Sez) Prosht-pada are the 4 
bright stars, 2 each in Poorva Bhadra Pada and Uttara Bhadra Pada 
Nakshatra. The depth and understanding of Astrology in that 
Horay past stands out ir bold relief. 

There are numerous other instances of the use of Astrology 
including ‘Shakuna‘ or omens in Ramayaua. 


Astrology in Mahabharata 


In the Anusashana Parva, Chapter 64, a detailed description of 
the constellations is given. The charity (Daan) that needs to be 
done during the Nakshatra’s duration is also indicated. Muhurta 
also find a mention in Mahabharata. 

In this parva Yudlushtira’s birth details are given. Yudhistira 
was born on Monday with Moon in Jyestha - the constellation of 
Mercury. If was the full Moon (Purnia) and Abhijita Mudurta at 
his birth time; astounding breadth and spread of Astrolagy! 


History of Astrology - 


Sample another gem from Udyoga Parva. Karna tells Bhagwan 
Krishna “Saturn is transiting in Rojtini and Mars has just 
retrograded into Anuradha from Jyestha Nakshatra. Rahu is about 
to eclipse the Sun - this is an unfortunate period for the king”. 

Saturn’s transit over this Rohini causes wars even now. The 
first world war, Second world war, Indo-Pak war of 1971, the 9/ 
11 terrorist strike in the USA and 13 Dec 2001 attack on Indian 
Parliament are all attributable to Saturn’s transit in Rohini. 

What more proof is required to emphasize that astrology 
was a fully developed branch of science even during Malia- 
bharata? 


3. The Parashari Period (3000 BC-57 BC) 


Maharishi Parashara has been considered as the foremost 
astrologer for the Kali yuga. Kali yuga commences in 3,102 BC. 
Maha Rishi Parashara’s monumental work Briltata Parashara Hora 
Shastra is the backbone of Vedic Astrology and forms the basis of 
all teaching imparted by us. The other notable astrologers of this 
period were - Jaimini, Garga, Satyacharya and many others. 


4. The Varahamihiric Period (57 BC-19AD) 


This era is dominated by Varahamihira. He was the court 
astrologer of Vikramaditya who came to power in 57 BC. Vikrami 
Santvata commences from this date. Varamihira’s Brihata Jataka is 
the second reference book forming the basis of teaching. He also 
authored definitive works. Brihata Samltita; Pancha Siddhantika 
(wherein he has amalgamated the Siddhanta of Pitamaha, Surya, 
Vashishtha, Lomasha and Romaka); Datvagya-Ballabha (on Horary 
Astrology) are such great works. Some people put Varahtamihira’s 
period in Sth or 6th century AD. 

Our records improve and become more reliable from 8th 
century onwards. Notable astrologers of this period, along with 
their works, have been indicated as given below: 


Kalyana Varna (578 AD) His most noted work is Saravali which 
blends Vedic Astrology with Yavana Jataka. 


Utpal! Bhatta or Bhattotpala (Delhi-880 AD): Though he is most 


46 Introduction to Astrology 


popularly known as a renowned commentator on the works of 
Varahantihira, however, his own works, viz. Vivuthi and Ralu- 
Nivakaraua, are no less significant. 


Bhaskracharya (Vijayawada-1114 AD) His noted works are 
Bhava Chandrika and Bhava deepika. 


Vaidya Nath (Karnataka -14th century) His most significant 
work is Jataka Parijata, an astounding work on the characteristics 
of the Rashi and various other details about the planets, houses 
etc. 


Narayan Bhatt (Udipi-14th Century) His most noted work, 
Chamatkara Chintamani, is a treatise of predictive astrology. This 
book not only contains the dicta of various noted astrologers of 
yore, italso summarizes the results at the end of each statement. 
It is really a unique book of its kind. 


Venketesh Sharma (North India -16th Century) His detailed 
work on Dasha-phala, popularly known as Sarvartha Chintamani, 
is yet another land mark in the history of Indian Astrology. 


Dundhi Raj (Nasik-16th Century) His most noted work is Jatka 
Biarana which is a brilliant work on Natal horoscopy based on 
Yavana and Bridhyavana Jataka. 


Mantreshwara (Chennai; formarly known as Madras - 16th 
Century) His Phaladeepika is a most definitive work on natal 
Astrology, which is basically a Condensation of Jataka Parijata. 


Nilakantha (Maharashtra-16th Century) He pioneered 
Varshaphala (Tajik) by writing the great book called Tajika 
Nilakanthi. 


ASTROLOGY DURING MUGHAL PERIOD 
(1526 AD - 1707 AD) 


The Mughals ruled over India from 1,526 AD, the first battle of 
Panipat where Babur defeated Ibrahim Lodhi, to 1857 AD when 
the English arrested and deported the last Mughal King Bahadur 
Shah Zafar. In this the reigns of Akbar (1556-1605), Jahangir (1605- 
1627) and Shahejahan (1628-1658) were periods when the rulers 


History of Astrotogy 47 


amassed fabulous wealth, lived in dazzling splendour, 
constructed some of the most splendid architectural wonders 
like Taj Mahal, Red Fort, Jama Masjid, Sikri etc.This was the 
golden period of the Mughals. From Aurangzeb the decline set in 
and then Mughals were finally ousted by the British after the 
1857 Mutiny (Gadar). 

We, in this country from times immemorial, have assimilated 
the invaders. The “Fiza” (the atomosphere) of the country is such 
that it wins over those who come in contact with it. The hard 
nosed Turk horsemen, living life of plunder, loot and constant 
movement, were tamed into culturally aware kings. Such was 
the influence that the Mughals become keen followers and 
practitioners of Astrology. 

The details about the influences of Astrology on the Mughal 
kings from Babur to Auranagzeb (1526-1707), which is for a 
period of nearly two centuries, have been appended at the end 
of the book as the annexure 1. We also study the influence of 
Astrology on the cultural climate in this period by examining 
the works of two representative poets on extreme ends of the 
literacy and cultural rainbow ‘ Bihari’ the rank romantic and 
“Tulsidasa”’ the devotee and the Bhakta. (See Annexure). 


Ganesh Daivagnya (Gujarat-18th Century) His most popular 
work Jataka Alankar is basically a wonderful condensation of 
Shuka Jatka. 


Mahadevji Pathak (Ratlam-born 1842 AD) Jataka Tattwa is his 
fine work on natal horoscopy. 


B. Surya Narain Rao (born 1856 AD) He was a prolific writer 
and has written various commentaries, the popular ones are on 
Brihata Jataka and Jaimini Sutram. 


Ram Dayalu (Punjab-1861 AD) Sanket Nidhi is his famous 
work. 


Pandit Mahesh (Kashmir-1874 AD) His two well known works 
are Ramveer and Jyotish Mahanibandha respectively. The 
contemporary astrologers have been discussed in the next 
chapter. However, to conclude, this one, it is felt necessary to 


48 Introduction to Astrology 


glimpse astrology in other parts of the world, almost during the 
period that astrology was at its glorious best in India. 


Astrology in other Civilizations 


>» Sumerian (5000 BC-2000 BC) Lunar Calendars, 
Knowledge of constellations. 


>» Babilonian (3000 BC-1000 BC) 
* Assyrians (1690 BC-60 BC) 


» Greek (1500 BC-200 BC) Totally influeced by Sumerian 
who extensively borrowed from Vedic and Babylonian 
astrology. 


CHAPTER 9 


The Present Period 


The present period is characterized by the advent of the printing 
press. This permitted writings to reach out to entire world. 
Astrology was given a platform from where a large group of 
people could savour its subtle and aromatic nuances. This period 
saw the emergence of the celebrated and widely read Dr. B.V. 
Raman. He, with the Astrological Magazine, reached almost 
every astrology loving home in the country. His Books have been 
instrumental in teaching astrology to thousands of students His 
place in the modern time is secured. 

We now take two of the classical Astrologers who have 
helped shaping the events in the country; they are Sri Surya 
Narayan Vyas and pundit Hardev Sharma Shastri Trivedi. 


Surya Narayan Vyas 


He was trained in Ujjain and honoured with Padma Vibhushana; 
the only astrologer to have received such an honour. Though 
the irony is that this honour came to him for his Sanskrit 
Scholarship ! 


Hardev Sharma Shastri Trivedi 


He was the founder publisher of “Vishwa Vijay Panchanga”. He 
had memorized Brihata Samhita of Varahamihira and Tajik 
Neelkauthi. He had mastery in the use of Chakra. He, along with 
Surya Narayan Vyas, advised the Power that be that the best time 
for Indian independence was midnight. This is recorded by Sir 
Woodrow Wyatt. 


50 Introduction to Astrology 


Gems of the Purest ray serene 


We must mention the astrologers who quietly, in comparative 
obscurity, did sterling astrological work. They came close to the 
old time classical astrologers who were devoted, selfless and 
divine guides. These are; 


(a) Samant Chandra Shekhar : This Orissa astrologer is 
unique. With crude instruments he could workout the 
longitudes of planets with amazing accuracy. He had 
authored a book “Siddhanta Darpan” that is awaiting 
translation and publication in English by Orissa Govt. This 
man’s work was recognized by the then British rulers but 
he has been ignored hy the present Indian masters. 

(b) K.P. Sharma: A brilliant astrologer in the court of Bikaner. 
He would not have come to light had Sir Woodrow Wyatt 
had not mentioned him in a detailed article in the Times, 
in May 1988, the article was titled, “Who Does Not Consult 
Stars”. He defended the then U.S. President Ronald 
Reagan for consulting astrologers. K.P. Sharma gave a 
brilliant prediction to Sir Woodrow Wyatt-in 1944 that 
sardar K.M. Pannikar, the then Dewan of Bikaner, would 
one day goas an ambassador. India was not even free then. 

{c) Vemuri Ramamurty Shastri: A brilliant Andhra Pradesh 
astrologer who was an expert in Jaimini. 

(d) D.V. Subbarao : Andhra’s gift to astrology. He could 
demonstrate every word with examples. He was master 
of Birth Time rectifications. 


SHRI K.N.RAO 


Shri K.N.Rao imparts astrological knowledge in the class room. 
Ilis place in the annals of the History of Astrology has been 
secured by his unique achievement of attracting hundreds of 
intellectuals to learn and gain from the study of Astrology. Here 
is a dedicated, totally selfless teacher who is master of his craft. 
‘This man of great humility has been able to motivate, guide and 
inspire a team of 21 teachers because he is knowledgeable, is 
willing to share his knowledge and is utterly spiritual. Though 


The Present Period 31 


he has been imparting astrological knowledge to different groups 
for nearly two decades, his formal class room teaching 
commenced in August 1987 with first 10 students enrolling for 
Jyotisha Praveen at Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan, New Delhi. It has 
gone on uninterrupted and today his classes are so much in 
demand that is January 2007 there were over 300 applicants for 
about 200 seats. These classes are easily the biggest organized 
astrological classes anywhere in the world. In other centres in 
India if some one can attract even a dozen students for an odd 
year or so it is an achievement. Even in Delhi no one else has 
been able to sustain astrological classes at a comparative scale. 

Shri K.N. Rao has become a legend in his own life time 
because he has the wit, the lucidness, the depth of knowledge 
and that tremendous force of spirituality giving him ego free 
humility. He is the teacher who, while being deeply rooted in 
the classical texts, can still romanticize it and adapt it to the 
standard of his students—be it the green horns of Alankar, 
knowledge seekers of Acharya, researchers of his massive 
research group or the veterans of the faculty. He appeals to reason 
and, there by, hundreds of doctors, engineers, academicians, 
bureaucrats, journalists, artists, lawyers, bankers join his classes 
and their number continues to grow. What better reason can be 
there before including the legendary Shri K.N. Rao in the history 
of Astrology. These classes are a living tribute to this genius. 

Teaching is Shri K.N. Rao’s forte. He is unsurpassable. But 
that is not all. He is the best known writer of stimulating articles 
in various Astrological magazines. He is an outstanding speaker 
who can have a discerning and critical audience in complete 
thrall, admiring his appeal to reason. He is the only one in this 
egoistic Astrologer’s world who parts with his researches of a 
lifetime and unhesitatingly permits others to use it for their 
articles and books. He is historical as for the first time, in the 
history of Astrology he is showing replicable techniques standing 
up to rigid statistical and scientific probes. Mr. K.N. Rao has 
authored over twenty four astrological books and has guided 
astrologers in writing their books. 

Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan today has a thriving research setup 
which is providing rare insight into rich astrological material. 


52 introduction to Astrology 


Research is essential for any discipline to progress. This research 
is conducted under the guidance of Shri K.N. Rao and he is 
assisted by Col. A-K. Gour, S.Ganesh, MK. Pathak, Naval Singh, 
K.K. Joshi besides few others. The researches are regularly 
published in the Journal of Astrology. We are too close to these 
researches to properly evaluate them. History would give its 
verdict a little later. 

We are lucky that we are living in the times when an institute 
like Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan is actively helping the spread of 
astrology and has such able people like Sh. K.N.Rao and his band 
of dedicated faculty members to carry out this task. The Bhavan, 
the faculty, the students are all writing history right now. It is 
good and humbling to be a part of history in the making. 

We are lucky that we have a role model to guide and inspire 
us. We ought to model our astrological activities on his 
demonstrated pattern. Dedication, hard work and humbleness 
stand out as beacon lights for all of us. 


CHAPTER 10 


Fate and Freewill 


“A&A man can do what he wills, but, 
he cannot will what he wills”. 


Man has been eternally debating the interrelationship of Fate 
and Freewill. Is man a helpless bystander just watching events 
unfolding in front of him and reacting to them in a pre ordained 
fashion? Is he just a puppet on the string of destiny being tossed 
about? Alternatively, can he design his own destiny? It is an 
interesting and never-ending debate. Let us examine the two 
sides, first Destiny or Fate: 


Destiny or Fate 


Is there a thing called Fate? Or is it a screen behind which the 
clever, the crooked, the weak-willed persons hide their 
misconducts by holding God or Karma responsible for their 
faults? Is Fate a way of shedding responsibilities and claiming 
redressal for wrong doings by explanations that ‘Nature’ or ‘Fate’ 
compelled them to do what they did? This dilemma is to be 
examined in the light of the following facts: 


(a) Tasked Lives 


The universe is an intricately organized and meticulously run 
operation. The operation is run smoothly because every 
constituent of this gigantic operation is allocated a specific 
task(s). Each human birth takes place to carry out its allocated 
task in accordance with its Karma. This allocation of task(s) is 
‘Fate’ or ‘Destiny’. 


54 Introduction to Astrology 
(b) Birth 


The circumstances and the environment of the house where one 
is born are pre-determined. To be born with a silver spoon in the 
mouth or in poor, poverty-laden circumstances is ‘Fate’ or 
‘Destiny’. 


(c) Predictiveness of events 


If events are not pre-ordained, they cannot be predicted. The 
fact that something, some event, due to take place at a future 
date, can be predicted, gives credence to the existence of ‘Fate’. 

Now read this shloka carried on the mast-head of each issue 
of The Astrological Magazine : 


wets seat qaafa wtf: 
al aa aera wan aera fer 


“Those who know Astrology can only indicate in a way what 
nay take place in future. Who else, except the creator Brahma, 
can say with certainty what will definitely happen?” 

This explanation succinctly puts ‘Fate’ in its place. There is a 
force, call it what you may, that shapes human lives. Hindu 
Astrology takes a giant intellectual step and identifies this force 
as Karnia. The present is conditioned by the past karma and the 
Karnia, which we do in the present, shape our future. 

Now let us examine Freewill. Reduced to basics, man is a 
creature who cannot avoid action. To act is to live, and action is 
within the freedom of a human being. Freewill is a misnomer. 
There cannot be freedom sans limitations. As we have already 
seen that the universe is an intricately run operation where each 
one of us is tasked specifically. Our actions have to conform to 
the limitations laid out by the actions of others. Universe is a 
harmonious place and to be in harmony one has, of necessity, to 
accept limitations. It is here that Astrology steps in to illuminate, 
to explain this complex link between Fate and Freewill. Look at 
it like this if everything is pre-determined of fated, what is the 
role of astrology? Isn’t it reduced to the role of watching events 
unfold? Similarly, if freewill is not limited then what stops a 
nin from achieving what ever he desires? He can act and act 


Fate and Freewill 55 


until he gets what he wants. In life, neither of the above happens. 
Astrology explains it. It can calculate the limitations so that one 
can know the best time for a certain type of action. 

It can gauge the task that a particular man has been allocated 
and then it can match the two, so that the man’s actions are 
dovetailed into his tasks in a harmonious fashion. 

This harmonizing of the patterns of action with the life’s task 
can be explained vy an example. Imagine a cow tied to a peg by 
a tether. The peg is ‘Fate’ or ‘Destiny’. There is nothing the cow 
can do about it. The tether is Freewill. Its elasticity and its length 
are decided by past and present Karnia. The cow can do what 
she wants within the area covered by the tether. If she decides, 
she can fall in a pit or carefully avoid doing so. 

We have seen that there is some pre-ordainment in all lives. 
We have also seen that freewill exists, of course, regulated by 
karmic limitations. What need to be understood is that our 
natures, our inclinations, our outlooks are conditioners that have 
been granted to us by our past. Freewill is the agency that 
produces activity, action, the Karma and prepares the 
conditioning for the future, the two are totally interlinked. Man 
neither is a pawn on nature’s chessboard nor is he an architect 
of his own future. 

This is a theoretical exposition of fate and free will. For the- 
benefit of students Mr.K.N. Rao has, for the first time ever, linked 
this subject with astrology. Readers are advised to carefully study 
the exposition of fate and freewill in Shri K.N. Rao’s various 
books on the subject. 


Postscript: 


} am heartened by what Nani A. Palkhivala, one of the most 
incisive and sharpest of brains, a legal luminary, and an 
economist respected the world over and our former Ambassador 
to the USA says in his book “We the Nation”. This book has 
been published in 1994. His introduction to the book aptly titled 
‘Are we masters of our fate’ contains passages that are, most 
unusually, a very appropriate summary of this lesson. I quote 
them without any comments. 


20 INETOAHCTION 10 ASLTOLORY 


“I believe that the basic pattern of an individual’s or of a 
nation’s life is predetermined. ...There is existence of freewill 
but that is again within the preordained parameters. 

The case is similar to that of a dog on a Jong leash—the dog 
has the freedom to move about as far as the leash permits, but 
not beyond ... It has become the fashion to aver that you do not 
believe anything which science cannot prove. I admit that 
skepticism is healthy ... However there are incontrovertible 
examples of authentic happenings and phenomena which 
science is wholly unable to explain.” 

T close this postscript with another quote from page 243 of 
this book: 

“The sense of the mysterious is the hallmark of a perfectly 
educated man who has learned to keep his spirit wide awake”. 


CHAPTER 11 


The Karma Theory 


The Vedic Astrology goads the fallible, the impressionable, the 
fragile and the weak human being to be fearless. The Veda teach 
us “Do not fear”. Our Gods bless us in Abhaya Mudra (fearless 
posture). Upanishada tells us, “Moksha is not for cowards”. We 
fear death, we fear misfortune, we fear the unknown and we 
fear everything. Karma Theory puts things in a perspective where 
we begin to realize that we are the part of a properly conceived, 
meticulously planned and brilliantly executed ‘grand design’. 
We are acting out our roles as sketched out by the great designer. 
The Karma theory rests on three pillars and they are: 


(a) Reincarnation 

(b) Man’s inescapable propensity to do Karma; an action less 
existence is not possible. 

(c) Fruits of action have to be enjoyed/ suffered. That is the 
only way in which the cycle of action and its results gets 
spent. Smriti says: 


waver, Weta pd we YUE 
a wad afted at aeratiegracion 

“Aman inevitably enjoys the good or bad results of his Karima, 
unspent they do not decrease even in eons” 

These three pillars very subtly but in a very perceptible 
fashion encourage the human beings to gird up and fight the 
‘fear’ and attain Moksha, without reincarnation there can be no 
Astrology. For Astrology is merely reading the karmic pattern 
which has a link with the past life(s) and also with the future 
life(s). 


58 Introduction ta Astrology 


The karmic pattern is woven skillfully in a horoscope. So as 
to indicate the balance of Karma that the native is carrying as 
well as his mission or task in this life. How is it done? Let us 
take a look. 

All of us are “a replica of universe. (Wadra) The five elements. 
fire, water, earth, air and ether (a very improper word for Aakusha 
clement) constitute the universe and we are also an amalgam of 
these five elements. It, therefore, stands to reason that we arc a 
small part of a grand design, placed in a fashion so that we can 
make our contribution. Each one of the humans has desires and 
wishes to fulfill them. Each one of us is motivated differently 
and reacts in a different manner to a given situation. It is outer 
manifestation of the karmic pattern and the inner motivations 
to exhaust the fruits of past Karmas and to do Karmas that lead to 
emancipation is seen ina horoscope when we divide it into four 
parts as under : 


(a) Dharma (b) Artha (c) Kama and (d) Moksha 


In a horoscope houses Ist, Sth, 9th are the houses of Diurmia; 
2nd, 6th, 10th are the Artha houses; 3rd, 7th, 11th are the Kama 
houses and 4th, 8th, 12th are the Moksha houses. _ 

The signs and the planets occupying and influencing these 
houses indicate the Karma pattern. If the majority of planets are 
in Artha and Kama houses, the native’s inclinations and 
motivations are oriented in that direction. He has desires (Kama) 
and the money (Artha) and if they match at the right time in the 
native’s chronological growth, he can enjoy them to the full. This 
is the pattern, which is laid out in the horoscope. On the other 
hand, a native due to achieve emancipation would have a 
planetary distribution in his Dharma and Moksha segments. 
Various combinations are possible and that is why we see people 
having differing outlooks and motivations. 

In this revelation of the karmic pattern, two Dharma houses 
viz. the 5th and the 9th play a noteworthy role. 


The Fifth House 


This Dharma house is the one, which maintains and shows our 
link with our past. It is also the house where the balance of our 


The Karima Theory 59 


Karma that we are carrying from our past are indicated. It is the 
house of Poorva Janma Punya. 


The Ninth House 


This Ditarma house is 5th from the 5th house. It indicates what 
Karma we would be inclined to perform in the present life, and 
also ties us to the future life. 

Our Karnia are classified into three segments. These are— 
Prarabdha, Sanchita and Aagami. Sanchita are those Karima that 
have already been performed and we are now waiting to enjoy 
their fruits. Since these Karima have already been done there is 
nothing one can do about them naw. The Gita has told us that 
our task is restricted to performing of Karma we play no role in 
deciding the quality, quantum or the timing of result. Sanchita 
Karnia are the ones that link us with fate. If you now go back to 
the lesson on ‘Fate and Freewill’ the Sanclita Karina are the ones 
that have shaped the destiny. 

Prarabdha Karina are the ones that we are motivated and 
inclined to perform in this life. These are what constitute the 
freewill portion. This is the area where a native can by his 
exertions and actions rise above the Karmic pattern indicated in 
the horoscope. It is here, that judicious application of freewill 1s 
exercised to performance of meritorious deeds. Freewill is 
exercised in stoically enjoying or suffering the result and thereby 
exhausting the previous Karmas. It is here that a man’s is given 
the chance to guide his own destiny. It is the Prarabdha Karma 
that make man capable of deciding and making his own future; 
but remember the analogy of the lesson on “ Fate and Free Will” 
the tether of free will is firmly fixed to the ‘peg’ of destiny. Aagani 
Karmia are the ones that are still being contemplated and will be 
done in future. 

Just see the utter simplicity and yet the deep profundity of 
the concept. A native arrives in this world with some balance of 
his Karma. This places him in the society, gives him a home and 
environment where his past Sanchita Karma gets linked to his 
present Prarabdha. Once he starts performing, the Prarabdha 
Karima, he has to, firstly, reap his Sauchita Karna i.e. the link with 
his past, secondly, exhaust his Karma allocated for the present; 


60 hutroduction to Astrology 


and thirdly, think about his future and do actions so that the 
balance for the future is good. 

Karina have also been named as Dridha, Adridha, and Dridh- 
adridha. Dridha Karma are the ones whose results can not be 
altered whereas Adridha are those Karma whose results can be 
made bearable by proper and timely action. 

In the third category are the Karmas whose results can be 
changed by propitiation of the planets (“Graha shanti)”. 

At the end of this examination, we can conclude that Karma 
are akin to living. All Karma fructify. The fructification follows 
the universal ‘Cause and Effect’ principle. In Vedic Astrology, 
this cause and effect principle has been shown to be operative at 
a plane higher than the mere physical one. On the physical plane 
an effect flows immediately from a cause. Push a car it moves. 
Astrology takes this principle far above the gross physical 
plane— it shows that, whereas for any action the reaction is 
inevitable, the timing of the reaction as well as the result of the 
action are held by that supreme Divine Will. 

Cyrus D.F. Abayakoon writing in the Astrological Magazine 
commented on the workings of Karma in the life of a man thus. 

“Karma is not just ‘as a man soweth so shall he also reap’, 
state of unfoldment. It is far more deep because, before a man 
can sow, he has to have seeds gathered in the previous harvest 
whether She/he has accumulated merit can be gleaned from the 
twelve houses of a horoscope” 

This theory of Karma would have achieved its aim if it 
contributes to the bridging of the chasm that exists between, the 
man’s physical being and his inner core, his soul. The Karma 
theory puts the soul into the body and links the man to the Divine 
will as a part of living, evolving and dynamic universe. 


CHAPTER 12 


Why Believe in Destiny 


Astrology and Karma 


In all the writings of writers on Astrological subjects sometime 
or the other, the relation between astrology and Karina has been 
discussed. However, no writer has posed the most important 
question whether the two great authorities we follow, Maha Rishi 
Parashara and Varahamihira, have or have not directly related 
astrology to Karma. A further question to which the writers 
should have addressed themselves is whether astrology gets 
directly related to the belief in the past, the present birth and the 
future births. 

Brihata Parashara Hora Shastra starts with reference to the 
Avatara Krama supporting the Hindu belief that God reincarnates 
himself in this world whenever the balance of evil begins to 
heavily outweigh the virtues. In such situations, nine 
incarnations take birth under the beneficent influence of a 
particular planet. Lord Rama from Sun, Lord Krishna from the 
Moon, Lord Narsintha from Mars, Lord Buddha from Mercury, 
Lord Vamana from Jupiter, Lord Parashurama from Venus, Lord 
Koorma from Saturn, Lord Varaha from Raku and lord Matsya from 
Ketu. It should be remembered that Brihata Parashara Hora Shastra 
starts with the story of divine reincarnation. 

Where and how does Maha Rishi Parashara refer to human 
reincarnation? Such references are scattered in many places in 
Parashara texts, some of which can be seen first. The eighth house 
is referred to as ‘Purvapara Janur Vrittama’, which means the 
occupation, the profession of the past birth. The next important 


62 Introduction to Astrology 


reference is when Maha Rishi Parashara deals with the maraka or 
the first four years because of the evil deeds of the mother, in the 
next four years because of bad karma of the father and in the last 
four years up to the 12th year child’s own bad Karma. The nature 
of death is also decided of every individual because of the Karima 
of the past life. It can be because of royal punishment, incurable 
diseases, through weapons, poisoning, drowning in water, by 
fire or by a fall from a height etc. Whether at the time of death a 
person would be conscious or unconscious and whether he 
would die at home or while in movement or ina foreign country 
etc, are directly referred to. Parashara and Varahamihira both also 
referred to the past, present and future births in dearest terms. 


Past Birth 


To find out the world from where particular human-being has 
come to take his birth in the world of mortals, the Drekkana of 
the Sun or the Moon is to be seen. Here Jupiter represents Heaven 
or the higher region, the Moon and Venus the Chandra Loka (also 
referred to as Pitra Loka), Sun and Mars from our own world of 
mortals, while Saturn and Mercury from lower worlds. 


Future Birth 


The presence of Jupiter in the 6th, 7th and 8th house has been 
praised by Parishara for attaining to a highest state after death. 
Varahamiltira praises Jupiter ir the 10th house. If there are no 
planets in the 6th, 7th or 8th houses, the lords of 6th and 8th 
houses and their Drekkana are to be examined. 


Present Birth 


When Parashara refers to both the past birth and the future birth, 
how and where does he refer directly to the present birth? There 
are direct references in many places but the most significant 
reference is made in the chapter dealing with the curses of the 
previous life as a result of which a person can be deprived of 
children in the present life. Here Mandi and the 5th house along 
with other planets, is to be made use of and the particular nature 
of the curse, of the previous life analyzed. For instance, if in such 
a curse, the Sun is associated, the curse is of the father, if the 


Why Believe in Destiny 63 


Moon, of the mother etc. and if Rahu is with Mandi, itis described 
as Sarpa Dosha of the previous birth. Parashara even prescribes 
the methods of the propitiation of planets of ‘Graha Shanti’ fer 
each type of curse. 

There should, therefore, be no doubt left if the minds that 
our astrology is directly related to the past, the present and the 
future birth, and these wholly and substantially support the 
theory of reincarnation. 

If astrology supports the theory of reincarnation, we shall 
see it being referred to in every Hindu scripture, and has been 
mentioned repeatedly in the Gita. Two questions will arise : 


(1) What about those who do not believe in reincarnation, 
and 

(2) What about scientific proof in modern terms of such 
reincarnation. 


This question can be answered in two ways. 


The first is to quote from the Hindu scriptures where there 
are references of hundreds of cases of reincarnation. Naturally, 
the immediate objection that would be made is whether non- 
Indians and non-Hindus can believe in reincarnation at all. After 
the researches of Dr. Ian Stevenson, in cases of reincarnation, 
there should be no doubt left about such reincarnation. 

Reincarnation immediately reinforces belief in three other 
inter-connected observations and traditional Indian beliets. The 
first is what is known as the Karma-Phala or the result of the 
Karina of the past life. The second is the Karma-Samskara or 
psyche-mental emotional tendencies of the previous life and the 
third is the birth-marks. In more then 600 thoroughly investigated 
cases of Dr. Jan Stevenson, covering the entire world almost all 
religions and most of the continents, no doubt should be left 
any more in the minds of even those who demand the scientific 
proof for verifying cases of the reincarnation. Some of these cases 
briefly are as follows : 


Shanti Devi 


This is a case from Delhi. Shanti, in her previous life, was in 


64 Introduction to Astrolagy 


Mathura and had met the children of her previous life who were 
much older to her. This was a case, which came to the notice of 
the world when Mahatma Gandhi got a committee constituted 
under Delhi’s Deshbandhu Gupta to investigate thoroughly into 
the veracity of Shanti Devi’s case. For many decades, this was 
the most widely reported case in the world. Shanti Devi died 
sometime in 1987 or 1988. 


Gopal Gupta 


The most celebrated case for our generation is that of Gopal 
Gupta of Delhi who in his previous life was Mayor of Mathura 
and was shot dead in 1948 after his own wife of the previous 
birth hatched a conspiracy with her brother-in-law to get her 
own husband murdered. The name of Gopal Gupta (born on 
August 1956 in Delhi) was Shakti Pal Sharma (was born on 
December 30",1913). (p.77) 

In all the cases of people who remember their previous life, 
the death in the preceding life has invariably been violent. How 
the Samskara of the previous life re-appear in the present life is 
clear in the case of Gopal Gupta from amongst many instances. 
When as a boy, he was asked by his father to remove a cup had 
been used by someone and had become ‘polluted’ (ucchishta), 
he objected saying that he could not do so since he was a 
Brahmin. It was the odd reply of Gopal Gupta, which led to 
detailed investigation into his past life. 

Gopal’s mother, Omivati Gupta had an unusually strong 
desire for fruit juices, especially, orange juices during her 
pregnancy with Gopal (p.96). Dr. Stevenson investigated into 
this and found out that Shakti Pal Sharma was particularly fond 
of fruits and especially orange juices. 


Kum Kum Varma 


In the Darbhanga district of Bihar, there lived a woman called 
Sundari who was poisoned to death by her daughter-in-law in 
1950. Sundari made a cobra her pet, which she fed and allowed 
to sleep in her own room. Five years after her death she was 
born as the second daughter and the third child of Dr. B.K. Varma 


Why Believe in Destiny 65 


and his wife Subhadra who lived in Bahera, a place not very far 
from Darbhanga. When Kum Kum was two and half years old, 
she started asking about her previous life in Urdu Bazaar, 
Darbhanga. Kum Kum had by birth, some marks on the lobes of 
her ears, which in her previous life had been pierced for earrings. 
When Kum Kum was four years old, she showed an unusual 
interest in snakes. Once when she was at her school, a cobra fell 
form a tree. Other children panicked and ran away but Kum 
Kum went up to the snake, Patted it on the hood and cuddled it. 
The snake, which had been sunned by its fall, recovered and 
quietly crawled away. This was the result of the Samskara of the 


previous life. 
12 1 2 3 
VEN | MARS |LAGNA 


CHART 1 


fe 
ea 
7] 8 7 
SAT Jur 
MOON 


In Astrology, we can easily trace Karma-Phala through the 
Maha Dasha system. For instance, chart 1. 

In 1990, this lady was passing through the Dasha of Maon- 
Venus. 

It can easily be seen: 


(a) From the Lagna the 7th lord Jupiter in the 6th house 
aspected by Mars. 

(b) The 7th house has Saturn again aspected by Mars. 

(c) From the Moon 7th lord Venus has gone into the 6th house 
while the 6th lord Mars has gone into the 7th house. 

(d) Inthe Major period of the Moon, which is in the 6th house 
from the Lagna with Jupiter, which is the 7th lord and in 
the sub-period of Venus, which is the 7th lord from the 


66 Introduction to Astrology 


Moon, is in the 6th house, there had to be strong difference 
of opinion with her husband. 

Finally, she had to divorce her husband. Astrologers can 
easily see that certain planetary pattern in every horoscope 
represents unavoidable proofs of predestination. 

Similarly, a person born with a horoscope (Chart 2): in the 
major period of Mercury sub-period of Sun and sub-sub period 
of Mars, there was a big theft in his house, as a result of which 
jewellery worth nearly Rs. 40,000 of his wife was stolen. Such 
an incident is explainable only through the application of 
astrological principles. This person has been suffering from losses 
and thefts of property repeatedly. 


The physical Astral and Causal Bodies 


What then is salvation? For the purposes of out 
understanding let us remember that there are three bodies: the 
physical body (Sthula sharira), the subtle astral body and the 
Karma sharira. The transmigration of soul is directly related to 
the astral body. So long as the astral body, which is called the 
linga-deha is not destroyed, the cycle of births and re-births does 
not end. There is an interesting story in the Mahabharata. Arjuna, 
who, had Lord Krishna as his guide anc’ Guru, and listened to 
the highest spiritual wisdom through t>e preaching of the 
Bhagawada Gita on the battle field of Kurruksheira, forgets all these 
lussons, and long after, he once again requested Krishna to help 


Why Believe in Destiny 67 


him refresh those lessons. Krishna admonishes Arjuna for 
forgetting those lessons and re-explained the essence of the Gita 
through, what is known as ‘Brahamana Gita’. Arjuna Again forgot 
these. However, after the departure of Lord Krishna from the 
world of mortals, Arjuna got immersed in deep spiritual practice. 
The Shrimada Bhagvatam describes that it was now that the astral 
body of Arjuna was destroyed and he remembered each and 
every lesson of the Gita. It is through such a destruction of the 
astral body that mortals get liberation or mukti. 

Again, some objections can be raised. Why should non- 
Hindus believe in astral body at all? Such objections will be less 
now than they were two decades ago because of the recorded 
instances of the out of body experiences given by Dr. Raymond. 
Many people who suffer a severe heart attack see their ‘astral’ 
body getting detached from the physical body and watching all 
the activities of the doctors and nurses. Dr.Raymond has recorded 
many such instances. Dr.Raymond gives an interesting instance 
of a person who was involved in a terrible car-accident and saw 
his astral body getting out of the physical body. After he was 
restored back to life, one day, he happened to be walking in an 
area of criminals of USA. Someone suddenly came, put a pistol 
on his chest, and threatened to kill him. When this man showed 
no reaction, the criminal was surprised and asked him, why he 
was not afraid of death? The answer of that man was the end of 
physical body had no meaning for him because he had 
experienced that there was life after death or death after life. 

It is not possible for an astrologer to trace out with any 
confidence what an individual was in his previous life though 
in the Bhrigu Sambita of northern India and Nadi of southern 
India, there are references to the previous life. An astrological 
classic known as the Karima Vipaka Samhita traces a man's past 
life according to the charna (quarter) of his birth-Nakshatra 
(Moon). 

All these lead to the inevitable conclusion that astrology is 
‘integrally’ related to the previous births, the present birth and 
the future birth. lt is for this reason that astrology and astrologers 
refer to three types of Karma: the Sanchita, the Praraliiha and 
Aagami. The Sanchita refers to the accumulated Karnin of all 


68 Introduction to Astrology 


previous lives, the Prarabdha represents that part of Karta of the 
previous life as is allotted for enjoyment or sufferings of the 
present life and the Aagami is a direct offspring of the Karnia of 
the previous and present life. Until all these Karina of the previous 
and present life are liquidated totally, there is no liberation or 
muktt. The total liquidation of the Karma that Parashara and 
Varahamihira referred to the past, present and future incarnation 
or every person. Interestingly, in Jaimini Astrology from the 
Karakamisha and Amatya karaka the examination of a horoscope 
can be done to find out whether a person would get final 
emancipation or not. 

It is necessary for us to stress that theory of astrology is based 
100% on the theory of Karma and reincarnation. Clues that are 
more scientific are now coming from the West about 
reincarnation while for Indians is has been only a matter of 
traditional belief so far. 

The Mahabharata refers to the Karma of previous life and states 
in the clearest terms that none can escape the consequences of 
the Karina he has done or is doing. The Karma is like a calf which 
knows how to search his mother-cow, even in a herd. The Karma 
chases its doer unmistakably. It is for this reason that it has been 
said : 


aayany were ad at yey 
a Wed aftad ad qevatferacton 


Karnias have to be suffered (or enjoyed).They do not get 
liquidated otherwise. 

Similarly, again the Mahabhara refers to the relation between 
astrology and Karma through the planets thus : 


what Teva a atta wpe 
aay sited Be -citmarel wer shan 


Which means that it is not planets and Nakshatra alone which 
give auspicious or inauspicious results. It is all the 
result of one’s own Karma though the popular belief is that it is 
only planets that impel or compel a person into a right or wrong 
act. = 


Why Believe in Destiny 69 
Astrology, Fate and Freewill 


For non-astrologers the debate about fate and freewill is purcly 
philosophical. Most of the Writers produce confusing volumes 
of book on the subject and mesmerize their reader’s with their 
confusions. 

For the astrologer, it is not a debate but only a question of 
developing more and more of his ability to see it, as he alone can 
see it, since astrology, better described as Jyotisha, is a Pratyaksha 
Shastra or a proofs-filled subject of classical learning. 

Whatever can be seen astrologically, can be divided into 
three following parts: 


(a) That area where destiny must prevail and man ‘has no 
choice. : 

(b) That part where man can exercise his freewill to improve 
the best of the pre-destined results or overcame the pre- 
destined misfortunes, partly, may be, even overcome 
completely his pre-destined misfortunes. 

(c) That mixed area where the astrologer cannot see himself 
where strokes of destiny become more mightily dominate 
over freewill or vice-versa. 


All these can be illustrated and many volumes produced by a 
team or astrologers. Here only some astrological illustrations are 
being given to explain what exactly the three areas mean. 


Non-Debatable Points about Destiny 


Eldest or the youngest among Brothers/Sisters 


An astrologer should see the following six horoscopes given 
here (Chart 1-6) and ask himself what is the common feature he 
sees in them. 

What has been given here is only a thumb rule but this thumb 
rule applies to over sixty percent horoscopes and therefore is a 
valid rule, which can be depended on. What is the common 
feature in all these horoscopes? 


1. The first horoscope is of a male who is the youngest child 
of his parents. 


70 


Vv 


6. 


Introduction to Astrology 


The second one is of a girl who is the youngest (seventh) 
child of her parents. 

The third horoscope is of a male who is the elder of the 
two sons of his parents. 

The fourth is of male who is elder of the two sons of his 
father though he has a sister elder to him. 

The fifth is of male who is younger of two sons of his 
parents. 

The last is of a lady who is eldest among the five children 
of her parents. 


Now what is the common feature in these horoscopes? 
1. 


In the first horoscope the eleventh lord is in the third house. 


HOROSCOPE 1 


In the second horoscope also the eleventh lord is in the 
third house. 


HOROSCOPE 2 


Why Believe in Destiny 71 


3. Again in the third horoscope the eleventh lord is in the 
third. 


} 
KE 


2: 4 
TU LAGNA 
11 4 


MERC 


HOROSCOPE3 


M 


A 
9 8 7 6 
SAT(R)} JUP RAHU 


4. In the fourth horoscope the third lord is in the eleventh 
house. 


12 1 2 3 
jup | SUN LAGNA 
VEN | MERC 

4 


MARS 
RAHU 


HOROSCOPE 4 


5. Inthe fifth horoscope the eleventh lord is in the third house. 
6. In the sixth horoscope the third lord is in the eleventh 
house. 


The thumb rule, which can be replicated with sixty percent 
success, is that if the third lord is in the eleventh house or the 
eleventh lord is the third, the person will either be the etdest or 
the youngest child of his parents; or will be the eldest or the 
youngest among sisters or brothers. 

Since we are talking of destiny, ask one important question. 
Does a person have a choice to be barn as the eldest or the 


72 Introduction to Astrology 


12 1 2 
RAHU 
VW 
MOON LAGNA 
5 
SAT 
9 8 7 6 
JUP MARS KE VEN 
SU, ME 
12 1 2 3 
MOON | MARS | LA, RA, 
VEN SU, ME 
4 
SAT 
8 7, 
KETU | JUP(R) 


youngest child of his parents or is it decided by destiny? What 
then is destiny? Whether one believes in destiny or not, the 
argument must start with the question whether one had any 
choice to be born at a particular time, in a particular family with 
particular parents and ina particular surrounding? At what stage 
could one have exercised any choice to select one’s parents, 
brothers, sisters, the family to be born in, be it a wealthy one or 
a poor one. If a man sits down to list out what in his life has 
happened without his having any choice in them, there is no 
reason why he should not believe in destiny. 

The ninth house in astrology is representative of father and 
religion. Now see in the four horoscopes given here how the 
ninth lord is placed. 


3 
4 


HOROSCOPE 5 


HOROSCOPE 6 


1. In the first horoscope the ninth lord is in the eighth house 


Why Believe in Destiny 73 


with Ketu. The native, Sri PV. Narasimha Rao went into 
adoption (Changing his father) in his childhood, over 
which he could not have had any control. Was it not 


2 3 
SU, MA 
ME (R) 


predestined as the planets indicate? 


5 
yup 
SAT 
7 6 
RAHU | LAGNA 


2. The second horoscope belongs to Congress member of the 
Indian Parliament, Mr. Choka Rao Whase ninth lord is in 
the eighth house. He too went into adoption in his 
childhood—a decision over which he had no control, it 
being pre-destined. 


Sri P.V. Narasimha Rao 


3 
VEN 
MERC 


Mr. Choka Rao 


SAT 
MOON 


3. The third horoscope belongs to a multimillionaire. In this 
horoscope there is an exchange between his eighth and 
ninth lords. He is a Parsi, follower of the Zoroastrian 
religion but he took his spiritual initiation in Hindu sadhana 
from a Guru in Girnar Hills of Gujrat. 


7A Introduction to Astrology 


12 1 2 
LAGNA] JU(R) 
KETU | SA(R) 


5 


HOROSCOPE 3 


9 8 7 6 
VEN MOON | KETU 
MARS 


4. The fourth horoscope resembles the third horoscope and 
here too there is an exchange between the eighth and ninth 
lords. He is a Hindu Brahmin, doing intensely a Buddhist 
sadhana after accepting a Japanese guru. 


12 2 3 
RAHU MARS | VEN 
MERC MO, SUN 


hed 
10 S 
JUP(R) SAT 


9 8 7 6 
LAGNA | KETU 


What astrology reveals is that what is pre-destined happens. 
Timing the event is the only problem of an astrologers and he 
should have no doubt that what planetary patterns reveal have 
to manifest in some form or the other in man’s life though when 
it happens, the person claims, “I decided to accept a guru of 
different religion because he appealed to me”. 

We astrologers are familiar with good and bad events in the 
life of a man and we predict on that basis successfully because 
planetary patterns reveal the pattern of destiny, which non- 
astrologers cannot see. 


HOROSCOPE 4 


Why Believe in Destiny 75 


Hundreds and thousands of such instances can be given from 
all aspects and walks of a man’s life to show why destiny has to 
prevail giving man no choice to decide many events of his life. 


II 
AREA OF FREEWILL 


There are areas in which a person can exercise his freewill but 
within the orbit of the pre-destined, not outside it. This can be 
illustrated in many different ways on different horoscope. For 
out example let us take the role of astrological counseling for 
career counseling starting with pinpointing the educational 
choices before a student. 


To do it not down: 


(a) The Nakshatra in which the fifth lord from the Lagua is 
posited and the influence of other planets and the lord 
of the house involved. 

(b) Then see the influences on the fifth house and the fifth 
lard from Mercury. 

(c) Combine both and the influences of planets decide the 
various educational choices available. 

(d) The strongest of those choices and the Mala Dasita 
running will ultimately decide the choice of higher 
education and the career pattern. 


Thus within the pre-destined orbit, a persan can exercise some 
choices. It is being illustrated here. 


The First Example 


The fifth lord is Saturn in his own Nakshatra and in the house af 
the Moon; the fifth house from Mercury is Capricorn which 
receives the aspect of both Saturn and Mars and the house 
involved is Capricorn (owned by Saturn). Totaling up, Saturn 
comes into play thrice, Mars once and the Moon once. The 
education has to be technical. The Moan, which represents 
vehicles, led this man into completing a diploma in automobile 
enginecring. 


76 Introduction to Astrology 


EXAMPLE 1 


7 6 
LA, VE, | MERC 
JU,MA | SUN 


Here the choice could even have been irrigation or electrical 
engineering. However, the Motion in the third house of 
communications decided it in favour of automobile engineerin,’. 


12 ) 2 
LAGNA} SUN VEN 
MERC | RAHU 


The Second Example 


EXAMPLE 2 


Oe 
fad 

Here the choice is not much as both from the Lagna and Mercury 
the fifth house has Saturn, Mars and the Moon all of which are 
in the Nakshaira of Mercury. He learnt mechanical engineering, 


latter learnt about petrol pump management and finally settled 
with an independent business in construction work. 


The Third Example 


Here the fifth house has Saturn aspected by Jupiter and the fifth 


Why Believe in Destiny 77 


house is Taurus owned by Venus; the fifth lord Venus is in his 
own Nakshatra but with the Sun and Mercury aspected by Mars. 
Totaling up the influence of Saturn, Jupiter and Venus show 
Venusian influences predominating. The conjunction of Mercury 
with the fifth lord Venus shows accountancy, commerce, 
economics etc. This girl was advised to do a course in fashion 
designing, after doing her B.Com. (a course in commerce). 


EXAMPLE 3 


She has successfully completed her diploma in fashion 


designing and had started her business. 
2 3 
LAGNA | KETU 
Jur 


The Fourth Example 


EXAMPLE 4 


Here the fifth lord, Mercury is in the Naksliatra of Rahu, who in 
turn is in the sign of Jupiter and with the Moon. The fifth house 
from Mercury is Gemini with Ketu in is receiving the aspects of 


9 8 7 
RAHU | MARS SAT 
MOON 


78 Introduction to Astrology 


the Moon, Rahu and Mars. The fifth lord with the Sun and Venus 
showed all the other influences. This woman studied economics, 
history, learnt music, dance and finally underwent training in 
tax-administration professionally after she became an income- 
tax officer. 

These four instances, like hundreds, will show that the deeper 
an astrologer works on similar lines, the finer and clearer become 
the choices available. This lady could develop interest in her 
professional subjects and also artistic subjects, one taking 
precedence over the other as the Dasha changes. 

The versatile talents of a person can thus be pointed out and 
the person can be advised properly when toconcentrate on what, 
not one at the cost of the other, but following a well-planned 
scheme of changing priorities. 

In all these examples the choices are within the predestined 
limits only. 


Ill 


fa ad ferantfa waataraa atfe: 
Kim Karma Kim Akarma Eiti Kavayo Api Atra Mohitah. 
‘The Gita’ IV-16 


What Karma is and what is not Karma, is very difficult to 
understand since it baffles even the seer. 

Astrologers should remember that is would never be possible 
for them to trace the Karma and Karmia-Phala fully, successfully 
and correctly ever as even the best of the seers do not know it. 
We come across baffling cases where we do not know what to 
predict. It is, in such cases, that no one can say, “Lo, here the 
borderline of destiny disappears and the domain of freewill 
begins”. 


IV 
RECONCILING FATE AND FREEWILL 


waa: framers aot aatfin water: 
Prakriteh Kriyamanani Gunaih Karmani Sarvashah 
‘The Gita’, II]-27 


Why Belteve in Destiny 79 


All the qualities, Satwika, Rajasika and Tanisika, inherent in 
nature are the motive forces of all the Karma. 

Ifa man thinks that he is doing any Karina then he is mistaken 
because he should know that he does what his inherent Satwika, 
Rajasika or Tanisika qualities impel him to do. Thus, no man can 
really accept fate and remain idle. 

Nevertheless, how are the two, fate and freewill, to be 
reconciled. The best is to quote the Mahabharata in this context, 
where in to the question of the eldest Pandava, Yuddhishtra, the 
great Bhishma answered thus: 


The Seed: The Karma is the seed, which sprouts into a plant, 
tree, leaves, flowers and fruits and all that. 


The Fari.: : Freewill is like farming without which no seed can 
sprout. Fate is the seed and efforts (freewill) are the farm, on 
which is grown the harvest of life. Both, fate and efforts have to 
co-exist. The word used for efforts is purtishartha. 


Results of Karma: Every man has to enjoy or suffer the results 
of his good and bad Karma, himself. It is well known and has 
been observed by all. 

Good Karima give good results and bad Karima bad results. 
One’s own Karma always yield results. 


The Hard Trier: The person who workg hard gets respect and 
dignity according to his own destiny, and luck. 

Through hard work, which includes spiritual practices as 
well, a person gets honour and dignity. 

The lazy one, who puts in no efforts, is like a fool who allows 
salt to be spilled on the wounds of his misfortunes. 

Thus through hard work one gets enjoyments, heavenly bliss, 
intellectuality and steadfastness. The idler, depending only on 
fate and chance, achieves nothing. 

Money, circle of friend, glory and great achievements are, 
reserved only for the hard trier. 

If there were to be no such thing as the results of Karma, the 
entire world would become idle and everyone would wait for 
his luck to give him whatever is due to him. 


80 Introduction to Astrology 


It is the efforts put in that follow fate. Nothing can be given 
by fate if no efforts are put in. 


The Witness of Karma 


The sole witness of all Karma of a person is his own soul. Soul is 
his friend or his enemy. 

Therefore, very determined effort can render the results of 
many karma of the past totally nugatory, as though no Karam 
was done. 


Conclusion 


1. Divine persons do only good Karma. Everything 
achievable is achieved through good Karma. Fate will be 
less inscrutable for the divine person. (What has been 
given here is a liberal of literal translation from the 
Mahabharata) 

2. Inthe greatest book of spiritual wisdom in the world, The 
Gita, the instructions are clear: Yoga is efficient Karma; a 
true devotee of His is efficient but non-attached. Therefore, 
man’s duty is to do his Karma and not expect-the results to 
be according to his wishes. He should accept gracefully 
the results of his Karma, but should never stop doing his 
Karma dispassionately and efficiently. 


Astrology is the only super-science known to mankind which 
helps man know the trends of results and the role of destiny 
whose importance is stressed in the Gila thus, ’There is a project, 
there is a project manger, there is the act of implementation and 
there are implements of action but there is that fifth; unknown 
factor, Destiny. That role can be seen only by an astrologer, 
sometimes very successfully and sometimes very wrongly.” 


CHAPTER 13 


Astrology and Psychology 


And God created the world. He made Man. He gave hima bod 

a mind and an intellect. He also made six enemies- the “Shaw 
Ripu” (Wey). These are Anger, Lust, Vanity, Greed, Attachment 
and Jealousy. The design for happiness envisaged that the Horse 
like powerful “Indriya” (the body) would be reined by the mind 
and directed to perform Satwika by the intelligence as the rider. 
The Body-Mind-Intelligence combine needs to constantly over 
come the “Shad Ripu” to gain happiness. 

Gita says:- 


wertfa ta a: ate wraertefeteronat 
am atumad ad dana qat At 
5\23 


“Withstand the impulse of desire and anger and bea 
happy man”. 


This seemingly simple direction of Bhagwan Sri Krishna needs to 
be examined ina little more depth. “Desire” is the bosom where 
“Shad Ripu” live and operate from. Desire” releases an avalanche 
of thoughts sweeping down from the mountains tops of our 
intellect to pressurize our mind like person to enjoy the fun and 
frolic in the placid Valley of the objects-of-desire. When this 
avalanche of thoughts is barricaded and stopped, the blast with 
which it shatters the obstacle is called “Anger”. The greater our 
desires, the greater are the anger against the obstacle(s) in the 
path of fulfillment of that desire. 

Our behaviour is controlled by the interaction of Body, Mind 
and Intellect with the “Shad Ripu”. Psychology is a behavioral 


82 Introduction to Astrology 


Science. It is of recent origin. Philosophy used to have a branch 
dealing with “Human understanding” which was laten 
developed as an independent subject Psychology. 

In 17 Century, the British Philosopher Thomas Hobbes (1586- 
1679) studied human behaviour extensively. He laid the 
foundation of this behavioral science. Johan Locke, in 1790, wrote 
a paper “Human understanding”. The paper contained ideas 
that are the corner stone of the edifice called Psychology today. 
Later day psychologists like skinner, Watson, Pavlov, Freud, Jung 
etc. constructed their behavioral models improvising and 
improving the Locke model. 

In a major new thrust, in 1923, Sigmund Freud traced the 
malfunctions of mind — the Phobias, the depressions, the 
anxieties, the aberrations to the sub-conscious mind and linked 
dreams with it. His studies and deductions focus on sexual 
maladjustment, which causes deviant mental behaviour of a 
person. 

We now look at the Astrological stance on behaviour. 
Astrology has recommended that a horoscope be analyzed from 
the Ascendant, Moon and Sun. The Ascendant represents the 
body-Body is where the sense organs (the indriya) are. These are 
the tear away horses that run after each desire. They are reined 
in by the mind. Mind is Moon. The reins are in the hands of our 
intelligence-the Atman-the Buddhi-the Sun. 

This three-way look permits an Astrologer to have a quicker 
and more comprehensive assessment of the behaviour pattern 
of a person. 

We now see it is operation. 

The horoscope given is of a lady. The lady is teaching 
Psychology in a prestigious university in the USA. 

This lady came to consult Sh K. N. Rao when she was running 
the Dasha of Venus and antara-dasha of Moon. 

Her horoscope Shows that:- 


{a) Saturnis in the 7th house. Saturn iz.8L. This 8L is aspected 
by Mars, the 6L, placed is the 12H. 

(b) Jupiter, the 7L, is placed in the 6H, Jupiter is also aspected 
by Mars, the 6L Placed in the 12H. 

What is becoming evident here is that botn the 7H and 


Astrology and Psychology 83 
A 


1 2 3 
VEN MARS |LAGN 


7L are under malefic influences mainly generated by 
Mars, the 6L placed is 12H. 6th is the house of litigation 
and 7L Jupiter placed here with debilitated Moon 
Indicates mental aberration. Let us probe further. 

(c) From the Moon we find that Venus is the 7L. This Venus 
is placed is the 6H From Moon, Venus & Mars (the 6L 
and 7L) have exchanged houses. Mars is in the 7H. 


We need to remember that the 7th houses, both from Lagna 
and the Moon, have malefic-Saturn and Mars in them. These 
malefic are the Jords of 8th and 6th houses. The 7th lords in both 
cases are benefic- Jupiter and Venus-placed in litigation prone 
6th house. 

When the lady got to Venus/Moon Dasha her 6th house shot 
into prominence. Moon is in 6th house from ascendant and both 
Venus and Moon are connected with their 7 lords. Moon is 
conjunct with Jupiter (the 7L) and Venus (7L himself from the 
Moon) has exchanged signs with Mars the 6L. Mars is the 6L, 
from both Ascendant and Moon, and this Mars is afflicting 
Jupiter and Venus, the respective 7L from Ascendant and the 
Moon. 

The lady was surprised when she was told that mental 
friction and total incompatibility should have dragged the sacred 
bond of marriage to a court. Divorce is very much on cards. 

The psychologist lady was ful-some in her praise of KNR. 
She mentioned that in psychology a Psychologist would need 
more than 2 or 3 hours of questioning to understand the problem; 


84 Introduction to Astrology 


here an astrologer has done it in five minutes ! Of course the 
caliber of the Astrologer matters. Shri K. N. Rao can and has 
done this. 

We find that the Psychologists are a well-organized group. 
These people get recognition and funds to encourage them and 
to further propagate this subject. The progress is rapid. 

An astrologer, as a counselor, is not acceptable to either the 
Government or the trend setting, decision making public. The 
reasons are manifold-primarily the shallow knowledge and 
hollow promises. Astrologers are keen to do some meaningless 
sensational predictions and scaring people with Kaal-Sarpa, Shani 
and their ilk. The Astrologer community needs to reach out to 
the educated elite of the world that reading a mind and behaviour 
of a person can be done accurately and quickly by astrology. 
The ideal solution may be that all psychologists learn astrology 
and all Astrologers learn psychology. 


CHAPTER 14 


Astrology and Science 


Science is defined in a standard dictionary as:- "Knowledge 
ascertained by observations and experiments, critically tested, 
systematised and brought under general principles”. 

Astrology is the knowledge of planetary movements gained 
through observations that have spanned milleniums. These 
observations have been linked with natural phenomenons like 
change of seasons, rains, calamaties like earthquakes, tornadoes 
and floods. Astrology also recorded the effect of planets on 
individuals. The knowledge is tested many times every day. It is 
systematised - Text books are becoming increasingly available and 
is now being taught in universities. Astrology is a vibrant scientific 
discipline. 

Replication is the touchstone of any scientific discipline. The 
replication in astrology can be understood in many ways. The 
simplest way to apply the double transit (pioneered by our 
respected Guru Shri K.N. Rao). A child is born when Saturn and 
Jupiter establish a PAC connection with parent's 5th house /Sth Lord 
and/or 9th House/9th Lord. This rule is universal. No one can be 
blessed with a child unless he gets Saturn and Jupiter to influence 
his 5th House /Lord or 9th House/Lord. See it in the example. 

In father's horoscope we notice that 5th house is Scorpio whose 
lard is Mars. The 9th house is Pisces whose lord is Jupiter. So we 
can say: 

(a) 5th house - 5th lord Mars 

(b) 9th house - 9th lord Jupiter 

The planetary position at the time of birth of the daughter shows 
Saturn in Cancer and Jupiter in a retrograde motion in Taurts. We 
now transpose them to fathers horoscope and this is what we get: 


86 Itroduction to Astrology 


a 


& 7 
SUN VEN 
MERC 


4 
SAT 
LAGNA 
5 


Daughter 


We notice that transiting Saturn (shown in Cancer) aspects Mars, 
the fifth Lord of father by its third aspect. It fulfills the stipula- 
tion laid down. Jupiter, from its transitting position in Taurus, 
aspects Mars (the fifth lord) with its fifth aspect; and the fifth house 
Scorpio with its seventh aspect. The principle stands fully applied. 

Shri K.N. Rao is now pioneering research in the field of 
validating simple replicable astrological laws. The first book in this 
field dealt with ascertaining if a person is the first born (eldest) 
child of his parents. The parameters were:- 


(a) Examine the 11th house/ lord from the Ascendent 
(b) Examine the 11th house/ lord from Jupiter 


lf three or four out these four points are afflicted the person would 
be the eldest child of his parents. The results were astounding. 

Astrology as Genetics astrology's ramifications are being 
explained hereunder through our genetic links. 


Astrology and Science 87 


FATHER DOB: 26/8/1950 TOB: 1:49 Jabalpur 


POB: Vishakhapattanam (FIRST SON) 


RAHI 
SAT 


If one tries to look at the ramifications, where Astrology can 
take one to, one is simply wonder stuck! There is no area of life 


88 Introduction to Astrology 


POB: Mumbai (SECOND SON) DOB: 19/12/1984 TOB: 7:20 


9 JUP 8 
SUN MERC 
LAGNA] KETU 


which Astrology cannot and does not touch ! We shall briefly 
understand the astrological links that exist between members of 
the same family through an example: 

Here we have shown the horoscope of the father, mother and 
the two sons. 

Look at the 5th lord (venus) of the father. It is in the lagna of 
the first son. The Sth lord (Saturn) of the mother aspects and 
disposits the moon of the first son. The 9th Lord (Moon) of the first 
Son, which represents the father, aspects the fifth lord (venus) of 
the father in the father's horoscope. The fourth lord (Saturn) of the 
first son, which represents his mother, is the 5th lord of the mother's 
horoscope and aspects her 5th house!. 

The second son should be seen from the seventh heuse since 
this is the 3rd house from the 5th house. In case of both the mother 
and the father, their 7th lord is Jupiter which is the lagna lord of the 
second son and is posited in his lagna! The second son's 9th lord, 
representing his father, is Sun. In the father's horoscope it is aspected 
by Jupiter, the 7th lord (and not the fifth lord). The fourth lord of 
the second son is Jupiter which is the 7th lord of mother’s horoscope 
and aspects the 7th from the lagna. The linkage is uncanningly very 
strong and is established without any difficulty. The modern 
medical science would need lot more information and perhaps quite 
some time too, besides some blood samples, from all the four 
persons to come to some definite conclusion which the Astrology 
did with three basic information viz. Date of Birth, Time of Birth 
and Place of Birth about the natives. 


EEE SS 


CHAPTER 15 


The Panchanga 


Once one has entered the field of Astrology, it becomes 
imperative to have nodding acquaintances with the Panchanya. 


Panchanga comprises of five (Pancha) limbs (Anga). These five 
are:- 


(a) Vaar: The seven week days. (Sunday to Saturday) 

(b) Tithi: The thirty lunar days. (Pratipada to Purnima or 
Amavasya) 

(c) Nakshatra: That constellation out of the the twenty-seven 
constellation where the Moonis. (From As/twini to Revati) 

(d) Karana: Half of a Tithi (Total sixty in numbers out of 
which four are fixed and seven repeat eight times ina cyclic 
order) 

(e) Yoga: The twenty-seven auspicious/inauspicious 
conditions (From Vishakunibha to Vaidhriti), worked out 
by manipulating the longitudes of the Sun and the Moon. 


SAMVATA 


The Panchanga, on its front page indicates Shri Vikrama Santvata 
and Shaka Samvata. Let us understand the Samvata first. 

We all understand the Gregorian calendar. We are now in 
year 2007 AD. This Calendar has 12 months from January to 
December. A similar calendar is followed by the Indian system 
where a year is called a Samvatsara which means one year. 
Samvata is the short form of Samvatsara. This is based on Sun’s 
completion of one round of the ecliptic. First point of Aries is 
taken as a fixed reference point in the ecliptic. The interval 


90 Introduction to Astrology 


between two successive passages of the Sun at the first point of 
Aries denotes one year. Samvatsara is based on luni-solar year. 

In the Indian system 60 Samvatsara exist. These are divided 
into 3 parts. Part I comprises 1 to 20 Sarvatsara and is called 
Brahina-Vimshattka; 21 to 40 Samvatsara go to Vishuu and 41 to 60 
are called Rudra Vimshatika. Brahma Creates in the first 20 
Samvatsara, Vishnu nurtures in the next 20 Sanrvatsaras and Rudra 
cleans up in the last twency Samtvatsaras. 


The Extra and the Expunged Months 
(AdhikalMala and Kshya masa): 


In Indian_system, the seasons are according to the solar year 
where as the festivals are celebrated according to the lunar year. 
Lunar year has 354.37 solar days. In a Luni-solar year, which 
our Samvata are, difference is accounted for by adding a month 
called “Mala Masa” after the interval of every 2 or 3 years. This 
addition is not arbitrary but is done in accordance with a 
principle. The principle is that when two new moon days fall in 
the same solar month, there will be two lunar months in the 
name of that solar month. For example in the year 2004, Sun 
entered Cancer on 16 July at 08:26 hrs and Leo on 16 August at 
16:48 hrs. In this month the new moons were on 17" July at 16:54 
hrs and again on 16" August at 06:54 hrs. This resulted is two 
lunar months called Shravana (Adhika or Mala) and Shravana 
(Shuddha). Adhika Masa is also addressed as Purushattina Masa. 
Let us further understand the scheme of things. It is not that 
these two months i.e. the Shuddha and Adhika Masa, follow one 
after the other. The system is that at the time of commencement 
of the month, the first fortnight (which is the dark one) is known 
as the Shuddha Masa. Thereafter the Adhika Masa or the 
Purushottna Masa follows which continues in one go. It 
commences in the bright half and continues for one whole month 
after which again the bright half of Situddha Masa begins. The 
sacred texts state that what ever Punya (good deeds like prayers, 
fasting, selfless service to others, charity etc.) is performed during 
Purushottnia masa, the results are enjoyed forever. In 
Bhavishyottara Purana Lord Krishna has stated that he is the cause 
of this month. Therefore, it is called as Purushottia. In the year 


The Panchanga 91 


2007, after about 32 months and 16 days of the previous Adhike 
Masa, we have two Jyestha Masa. The Shuddha Jyestha begins on 
3° of May 2007. The first half of Jyestha (Shuddha) is over on 15" 
May, 2007. Thereafter Adhika Jyestha (Shukla) begins on 16" May, 
2007. The next fortnight is also Adhika Jyestha (Krishna) which 
shall be over o1 15" June, 2007. Thus, the whole Purushottina Masa 
is over in one go i.e. from 17" May 2007 to 15" June 2007. Of 
course, thereafter the Shuddha Jyestha (Shukla) begins on 16 June 
and is over on 30" June 2007; the cycle of next months continue. 
One remembers that Amarnath yatra, which is normally open for 
only one month, had to be extended to two months in the year 
2004 as there were two lunar months of the same name. This 
continues till date for two months even though every year there 
would not be two Shravana months in the same year. As one 
may recollect, in the year 2006, there was a big uproar about 
non-formation of Shiva-Lingani since the cave was opened before 
the Shravana month. In fact the accusation was also hurled that 
an artificial Lisgam was installed there. Therefore, one can very 
well appreciate the efficacy of Adhika Masa and Kshya Masa 
concept. 

A companion of Adhika masa is a ‘Kshya‘ masa. ‘Kshya’ means 
loss or perish. This occurs when two solar ingress (Sankranti) 
take place in the same Lunar month. 

This well thought out integration of Lunar and Solar 
movement ensures that in every Samvata the festivals and seasons 
maintain their balance by occurring around the same time every 
year. On the other hand, in a totally lunar calendar, a festival 
like Id, preceded by the gruelling period Ramadan, can be in 
December one year and hot June in another year. 

Vikrama Sanvata commenced in the period of the great Indian 
king Vikramaditya. This is the date of his coronation. Its first day 
coincides with Chaitra Shukla Pratipada. This Samrvata is 57 years 
older than the current Gregorian (Julian) calendar. 

The Government of India, in a bid to standardize the 
Calendars, has accepted the “Shaka” Samvata. This started 135 
years after the commencement of Vikramua Santvata. Shaka Samiatu 
first day coincides with the Vernal equinox on 22nd March. 

One can get Shaka Samvata by subtracting 135 years trom 


92 introduction te Astrology 


Vikrama Samvata or by subtracting78 years from Gregorian 
(julian) calendar. 


Ayana, Ritu and Months 


Ayana: Ayana would literally mean motion or movement. In the 
Indian Panchanga system the word Ayana has different 
connotation. It refers to the direction of motion of Sun. Sun has 
to travel between the tropic of Cancer and the tropic of Capricorn. 
Cancer is the North most point and Capricorn the South most 
point on the ecliptic. When sun commences to move in to 
Capricorn, though it continues to be in the Southern hemi-sphere, 
its journey begins towards the north. This is referred to as 
Uttarayana or the motion of Sun towards the north. In 2007 Sun 
does so on Jan 14 at 18:06 hrs. This is called Makara Sankranti. 
Similarly the Sun commenced the South ward move in 2006 by 

entering in to Cancer on July 16" at 20:39 hrs to usher in the 
Dakshinayana. Therefore, there are two Ayana namely — the 
Uttarayana and the Dakshinayana. Uttarayana is called the day of 
devtas (Gods) and Dakshinayana is the night for them. 


Ritu: The literal meaning of Ritu would be the seasons. In 
Vedic times each Ayana was given 3 Ritu as under. 


(a) Uttarayana - Shishira (winter), Vasanta (spring) and 
Grishma (summer) 


(b) Dakshinayana - Varsha (Rains), Sharata (End of rains) 
and Hemanta (fall). 


Further, each Ritu has two months as under:- 


Uttarayana 

(a) Shishira - Tapa and Tapasya 

(b) Vasanta - Madhu and Madhava 
(c) Grishma -  Shukra and Shuchi 
Dakshinayana 

(a) Varsha - Nabha and Nabasya 
(b) Sharata - Isha and Uja 


(c) Hemanta - Saha and Sahasya. 


The Panchanga 93 


Over a period of time a new method of reckoning of months 
was introduced. This named the month in accordance with the 
constellations. The constellation occupied by the Moon on the 
Purnime Tithi (full moon night) gave the month its name. Chaitra 
month meant that Moon on Purninta was in Chitra and Shravan 
meant that Moon was in Shravana constellation on the Purninua 
Tithi. These months are: 


(a) Chaitra (g) Ashvina 

(b) Baisakha (h) Kartika 

(c) Jyeshtha (i) Margshieersha 
(d) Ashadha (j) Pausha 

(e) Shravana (k) Magha 

(f) Bhadrapada (1) Phalguna. 


Raja (The King), Mantri (The Prime Minister) and other title 
holders for the year. 


Raja of the year: The lord of the day of Chaitra Shukla 
Pratipada is designated as the “Raja” of that Samvatsara. He is 
also called the Varshesha. In Vikrama Santvata 2063 (2006 AD) the 
Chaitra Shukla Pratipada fell on Wednesday, the 29° March, at 
15:45 hrs. However, the Raja is decided by the lord of that day 
on which the Pratipada prevails at the time of Sun rise. This 
happened on the next day i.e. the Thursday. Varshesha is, 
therefore, Jupiter. The predictive results of the Varshesha are also 
available is the Panchanga. 


Mantri (The Prime Minister): The planet that rules the day 
on which Sun enters Aries (Mesha Sarikraitti) is the designated 
Mantri. In Vikrama Saniwata 2063, the Sun entered Mesha (Aries) 
at 06:19 hrs on 14 April 2006, which was a Friday. The lord of 
that weekday is Venus who got the portfolio of Mautri for Vikranut 
Samvata 2063. 


Sasyesha: Sasya means greeneries. Thercfore, Sasyesha 
controls green crops. It is the lord of the day of Karka (Cancer) 
Sankranti-Sun’s entry in Cancer. In 2006, the Sun entered Cancer 
on 16 July at 20:38 hrs, which was a Sunday. Therefore, the Sun 
got the portfolio of Sasyesha. 


94 Introduction to Astrotogy 


Durgesha: Durga means the fort. Simha Sankranti i.e. Sun’s 
entry in Leo decides the Durgesha. In Vikrama Samrvata 2063 Simha 
Sankranti was on 16 August, 2006 at 29:03 hrs, on a Wednesday. 
The time 29:03 hrs. should not confuse the readers. By the western 
system it would mean 05:03 hrs. on 17" August 2006 and the 
day would be Thursday. However, the time is before the sun 
rise, therefore the Sankranti shall be deemed to have occurred 
on the Wednesday. Therefore, Mercury gets to be the Durgesha. 


Dhanesha : Sun’s entry in Virgo decides the Dhanesha, the 
wealth giving lord. 


Rasesha : Sun’s entry is Libra decides the Rasesha, the lord 
of juicy fruits, sugarcane etc. 


Dhaneysha : Dhanya refers to paddy crops Sun’s entry is 
Sagittarius decides the Dhaneysha. 


Nirasesha: The dry things, especially metals etc, are 
represented by Nirasesha. Sun’s entry in Capricorn decides the 
Nirasesha. 


Meghesha : The lord of the day on which Sun enters Ardra 
Nakshatra is called the Meghesha, i.e. the rain giving lord. We have 
dealt the rains in a separate chapter. 


Yoga in Panchanga 


Panchatga gives the details of Sarvartha siddhi, Anirita siddhi, Ravi 
yoga, Dwi-Pushkara, Tri pushkara, Ravi Pushya and Guru Pushya 
Yoga. These are useful in “Muhurta” delineation. These are 
tabulated in the next page (Table 1). Muluirta has been extensively 
covered by Shri KK Joshi in his book on the subject. 

It is seen from this table that Amrita Siddhi, Ravi Pushya and 
Guru Pushya are specific Sarvartha siddhi yoga. It is further 
important to remember here that while as Vaar and Nakshatra 
combination gives rise to the wonderful Amrita Siddhi yoga, these 
are ruined and converted in to a malefic Yoga called 
Madhusarpisha. The same has been explained in the table 1. Let 
us assume that on a Sunday, the Nakshatra was Hasta. This is a 
combination for Amrita Siddhi Yoga. However, if on such an 


Table 1: Sarvartha Siddhi Yoga 


WEEK DAY | NAKSHATRA OTHER NAME | EXCEPTION The Tithi when 
Amrita Siddhi 
tums intoa 
malefic Yoga 

Sunday Hasta*, Moola, UF, UA, *Amrita Siddhi Panchmi 
UB, Pushya#, Ashlesha #Ravi Pushya 
2 Monday Shravana, Rohini, Mrigashira 
Pushya, Anuradha *Amrita Siddhi Shasthi 


Ashwini, UB, Kritika, *Amrita Siddhi | Construction of 
Ashlesha* or entering in to 
a house Saptami 
Wednesday | Rohini, Anuradha’, Hasta, 
Kritika Mrigashira *Amrita Siddhi Ashtmi 
5 Thursday | Revati, Anuradha, Ashwini, | *AmritaSiddhi | Marriage Navami 
Punarvasu, Pushya*# #Guru Pushya 
Friday Revati* Anuradha, Ashwini, 
Punarvasu, Shravana, *Amrita Siddhi Dash 


Saturday Shravana, Swati, Rohini* *Amrita Siddhi Ekadashi 


INDEX 


1 


Tuesday 


DSUBYIUD IY. 


EEZEEE 


S6 


96 Introduction to Astrotogy 


auspicious combination, the Tithi happens to be a Panchini (of 
any Paksha), Amrita Siddhi Yoga is poisoned and turns in to the 
malefic Madhusarpisha Yoga. Similarly one can conclude that 
through Pushya Nakshatra and Thursday make a great 
combination of both Amrita Siddhi and Guru Pushya, but god 
forbid, if it turns out to be a Navami (of any Paksha), the whole 
edifice of goodness crumbles in to the ugly rubbles of 
Madhusarpisha Yoga (Honey turning in to poison), 


Dwi-pushkara and Tri-pushkara yoga 


These are beneficial yogas. They are formed by the combination 
of Tithi, Vaar and Nakshatra. The combination should be that of 
Bhadra Tithi (Dwitiya, Saptami or Dwadshi) falling on a malefic 
day i.e. Sunday, Tuesday or Saturday coinciding with Moon is 
Dwipada or Tripada Nakshatra. We are aware that each Nakshatra 
has four equal parts; each is called a ‘Pada’ or a ‘Charana’. The 
literal meaning of both the words are the same i.e. foot. Thus 
each Nakshatra is a four footed system. 

Those Nakshatra that have two Pada is one sign (Rasi) and 
the next two Pada in the next sign are called Dwipada Nakshatra. 
We have three such Naksitatra namely. Mrigashira (which has two 
Pada or Charana in Taurus and two in Gemini), Chitra (which has 
two in Virgo and two in Libra) and finally Dhanishtha (whose 
two Charana are in Capricorn and two in Aquarius). 

The Nakshatra of Sun and Jupiter have one Pada (Charana) is 
one sign and the remaining three Pada (Charana) is the next sign. 
These 6 constellations of Sun and Jupiter are called Tripada 
Nakshatra. Kritika, Uttara Phalguni and Uttara Ashada are Sun’s 
Tripada constellations whereas Punarvasu, Vishakha and Poorva 
Bhadra-pada are Jupiter's Tripada Nakshatras. 


Ravi yoga: This yoga is formed when the Moon enters the 
4th, 6th, 9th, 10th, 13th or 20th Nakshatra from the Nakshatra 
occupied by the Sun. This is a beneficial yoga. 


The Marriage: The Panchanga has useful information about 
the traditional marriage preparations and the ceremonies. The 
Panchaznga can tell us the period suitable for marriage and the 
best Muhurta in that suitable period for saptapadi (the seven steps 


The Panchanga 97 


walked together by the couple). Panchanga also carry a ready 
reckoner for matching the horoscopes of the girl and the boy. 
Let us see them is some detail. The horoscope matching first. 

In the northern part of India, Horoscopes are matched in an 
eight-fold examination. The eight parameters used is matching 
has been traditionally given the name “Ashta-Koota’. These eight 
parameters, their broad meaning and their inter-se importance 
is as given in the table 2 below:- 


Table 2 
S.No. | Ashta Meanings Points 
Koot (Strength) 
1. Varna Degree of mutual spiritual 
development 
3. Tara Fortune or luck, one brings 
for the other 
| 4. | Yoni | Mutual physical affinity 
Psychic and deep rooted 


| | Maitri_| affection for each other 
Temperamental compatibility 


Overall mutual happiness 


Nadi Biological and Physiological 
compatibility 


In the scheme of these eight “Koota” the last three viz. the 
Gana, Bhakoota and Nadi account for 21 points. Their importance 
is evident and needs no stressing. 

In every Panchanga a ‘ready to’ use table called “Melapaka” is 
given. In this table the Janma Nakshatra of the girl and the boy 
are to be matched and the resultant figure gives the matched 
numerical value out of 36 possible guna value. In today’s world, 


18 Guna are being passed fit for marriage. A 22 plus matching of 
the “Guna” heralds the commencement of excellence. 


An extract of the ‘Melapaka’ is given in table 3: 


Let us read it. For Boy we go to the right as his signs, the 
constellations and their “Charana” or “Pada” are progressed 
horizontally. For the girl we go down vertically as her Rasi, 
constellations and their “Charana” progress Vertically. For our 
example case we take the Boy’s Moon at 158°10". This makes his 
moon sign (Rasi) as Taurus and his Janena Nakshatra becomes 
Kritika. The Proposal to be matched has the girl whose Moon is 
- at 10°12°10'. This puts her in moon sign Aquarius having the 
Janma Nakshatra “Shatbishaj”. Now get to the Melapaka. Proceed 
horizontally to Taurus and then identify Kritika. In this column 
start moving vertically down till you reach Shatbishaj in Aquarius. 
You would notice 32I]] written there. This would mean the 
matching of 32 and a half guna. The two vertical lines next to 32 
are a hangover of our past notation systems. In that system one 
vertical line (1) next to a numeral indicated 4 annas or 44; the two 
{II) vertical lines indicated % or eight annas; and three (III) 
Vertical line stood for three quarters or 4 or twelve annas. 

In the Melapaka the lower figures indicate the ‘Koota Dosha’ 
or the Koofa which is not matching. For example if the girl had 
been born the Taurus Rasi and Rohini Nakshatra and the 
prospective groom had Aries as his moon sign and Kritika as the 
Janma Nakshatra, the Melapaka shows the guna matching entry 
as 11/341. Meaning thereby that only eleven out of thirty six 
guna are matching and the ‘Koata’ indicated by notations 3,4 and 
1 are not matching. As would be seen from the table, 3 stands 
for Nadi Dosha, 4 means Dwi-Dwadasha (2/12) Dosha and 1 stands 
for Gana Dosha. If one finds 2, 5 or 6 written instead of 3 or 40r1, 
their respective meanings are Yoni, Nava-panchama and Bhakoota 
(6/8) Dosha. In some places “0” is written. This means that 
though the Guna are matching but the order of the Nakshatra has 
the bride’s Nakshatra preceding the Nakshatra of the Groom. This 
is called “Stree dura” Dosha. The theory is that the Grooms’ 
Nakshatra should be minimum 9 Nakshatra away from the bride’s 
Nakshatra. 


Table 3 ‘Melapaka’ 


Aguas | rises | 
ae 
< 
‘oh Shat Rev | Nal 
ae Ge 20 a a en 2611 
4 +4 | Ash 
a 141! 211) ae Bha 
ee 34 24+ o 
: 


: es 171! se TI} ksi 
14 34 


\ 


vSuvyoUudd ay 


Taurus 3 1 i 
a 
4 Roh = oe 2411 30H 
sii 
o Pe an 2711 


66 


2 
2111 


16l 
34 


24il 


-1 


1611 
-14 


18H 
-14 


nu 


324 


24il 


Table 3 (contd.) ‘Melapaka’ 


Ph 


311 


27 


310 


6 
134 


7 
134 


16 
14 


a 
ro 


33 - 16 
4 
281I I7i he 20 | PBh. 
42 


4 Es . a 


211i 
4 


16 


18 


oc 


ASojoaysy of Mol nposztey 


The Panchanga 101 


One also finds (-) and (+) signs. The (-) sign indicates that 
the Dosha is there but may be condoned or over looked. The (+) 
sign denotes that the Dosha is serious. 


The Possible days of marriage: 


After having matched the horoscopes; we shall look for options 
for appropriate day of marriage. This is done on the basis of 
‘Tribala Shuddhi' (the three pronged purity). 


Tribala Shuddhi 


1. Chandra Bala : The transit Moon should not be in 4/8/12 
houses from the natal moons of the bride and the bride groom. 
Moon is considered “Shuddha” in other houses. 


2. Surya Bala : Sun, like the Moon is avoidable in 4/8/12 houses 
from the natal moon. Sun is weak is houses 1, 2,5, 7, and 9 from 
natal Moon and can be strengthened by prayers. 


3. Guru Bala : Jupiter is considered weak if in bride’s horoscope 
it is in the 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 houses from her natal moon. If 
becomes happy after prayers. ((4 4s). These are given in the 
Panchanga. From the table of ‘Tribala Shuddhi' in Panchanga, 
one would notice following days suitable in the month of Janua 
2007 for the boy of Taurus Rashi - 14, 15, 20, 23, 28 and 29". 
Similarly, for the girl of Aquarius, the clear dates are 14, 15, 20 
and 23 January. Let us select the 23rd Janurary 2007 as the date 
for marriage. Now we shall work out the Muhurta for marriage 
on that date. This is also done through a ready reckoner from 
Panchanga. 

We now go to our reading of the Muhurta for marriages- 
Panchanga indicate shubha and ashubha Mukurta. We should, 
obviously choose a shubha Muhurta. Take the current Panchanya. 
Vishwa Vijay Panchanga of Vikrama Samvata 2063 (year 2006-2007). 
In 2007, 23" January is Tuesday, the Tithi is Panchmi of Shukla 
Paksha. On this day the notation is 3.41. wiuiSi F.7. ft means 
that out of ten possible “Dosha” for marriage, only one is present. 
The notation is being deciphered. 

First 3.4T- : This denotes the appropriate constellation 
(Nakshatra) on this day for marriage. It is “Utara Bhadra Pada” 


102 introduction to Astrology 


Second : The’S’ and ‘I’ depict the existence or non-existence 
of a “Dosha". ‘S’ stands for the existence of the Dosiia where as ‘1’ 
indicates clearance as this “Dosha” does not exist. 

There are 10 possible ‘Dosha’ for any marriage Muhurta. 
Unlike Koota matching, where a differential strength of matching 
or non-matching exists, here each Dosiia is equally potent. For 
an ideal marriage Muhurta there should be no Dosha. However, 
that is a very rare possibility and a Muhurta having up to four 
Dosha can be accepted. These ten Dosha are always taken in the 
order as given below : 

1. Latta 2. Pata 3. Yuti 4. Vedha 5. Jantitra 6. Mrityubana 7. 
Ekargala 8. Upgraha 9. Kranti Samya & 10. Dagdha Tithi. 

Now the notation on 23" January 2007 indicates 3.47. HiniSi 
wt. This means that the first six Dosha i.e.1. Latta , 2. Pata 3. Yuti 
4. Vedha 5. Jamitra and 6. Mrityubana Dosha do not exist. Nor do 
the last three Dosha viz. 8. Upgraha 9. Kranti Samya and 10. Dagdha 
Tithi exit. The only Dosha, indicated by ‘S’, Dosita no. 7, i.e. Ekargala 
is present. 

We need to know here is that in Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan Shri 
KN Rao is often quoted that Devrishi Narada - who is one of the 
“Parvartaka” of Jyotisha, kept looking for a totally pure Muhurta 
and he is still looking for it! 

The notation @.'. indicates that the suitable ‘Lagna’ is “Go- 
dhuli” which literally means, the dust from the hoof of the 
returning cows after grazing in the forest, i.e. the evening, before 
the sunset or the dusk. 


Mangli —- Mangal Dosha 


‘Mangli’ is a term that is used in marriage matching. This term 
to the uninitiated means something that is sinister and havoc 
creater. Now that the readers are learning astrology itis but right 
to understand this term so that its damage potential can be 
gauged and explained to the parents/ boy or the girl. 

Firstly what is Mangli ? Conventionally it is stated that any 
person having Mars in the houses: 1, 2, 4, 7, 8 and 12 from the 
Ascendent (Laguna) or the Moon is Mangali. Secondly, what is the 
effect of Mars in these houses ? Mars is considered to be a malefic 


The Panchanga 103 


planet. Mars has 3 aspects. The aspects are the 4", 7" and the 8" 
The result of Mars being in any of the ‘Mangal Dosha’ producing 
houses is tabulated in table 4. 

Mars in each of the twelve ascendents has different lordships. 
The likely effect of Mars in each of these ascendents along with 
the effect on each houses that it aspects is tabulated in table 5. 


The antidotes: 


Mangal Dosha is nullified by the following antidotes: 


(a) Dosha Semya: A ‘Mangli’ horoscope is matched with 
another person having the same dosha. If the male has Mars 
in the 4 house it can be matched with Mars or any other 
malefic like Saturn or Rahu in the 4'" house in the female 
horoscope. 

(b) 28 Years: It is widely believed that marriage gets delayed 
till 28" year due to this Dosha. The effect of dosha lessenss 
after the completion of 28" year. 

(c) Mars in Aries in the 1* house, in Sagittarius in the 12" 
house, In the 4" house in Scorpio, in the 7** house in 
Capricon and in Aquarius in the 8"* house causes no dasha. 

(d) Saturn placed in Mangal Dosha houses effectively counters 
the dosita. The houses are 1, 2, 4, 7, 8 and 12". 

(e) Adebilitated, combust or retrograde Mars causes no dosha. 

(f) A strong Jupiter or Venus in the 1* or 7" houses nullifies 
the dosha. 

(g) Mars in conjunction with Jupiter or Moon loses its 
Venom. 

(h) Rahu and Mars conjunct in a Kendra nullify this Dasha. 

(i) In the horoscope of a Girl placement of Lagna Lord in the 
7 house or Rashish in the 7" house from Moon lends 
stability in Married life, subduing the effects of Mangal 
Dosha. 

(j) In Ashtakoot matching 30 points or more permit one to 
ignore this dosha. 

(k) Mars placed in his own signs ~ Scorpio and Aries and in 
the rashi of its exaltation — Capricon removes this dosha. 

(1) Mars in Leo does not cause Manval Dosha. 


Table 4 


Placement of Mars Mars 4th Aspect Mars 7th Aspect 
Effect Effect House] Effect 


Asc. | an the bndy Happiness of family] 7th On Marital life 


2nd__| on the family Sth on children 8th Longevity of 9th on Fate and.Dharma 
(Longevity of spouse) Marriage 


8th Longevity of Marital | 11th on gains 2nd_ | On family and 3rd on efforts 
Life longevity of spouse 


Mars 8th Aspect 


8th Longevity of 


marriage 


601 


ASoposjsy 0] woiyonpospuy 


Table 5 


Mars Ist 7th 6th 
Lordship 8th | 12th | 11th 
Benefic/ {BenefiqMaraka|Malefid Benefic| Benefiq Malefic] Malefiq Neutral Benefiq Malefic} Malefid Benefic 
Malefic/ 

Asc. 
2nd 


Marak/ 
Neutral 
effect 


| Mangal 
Dosha is 
more if 
Mars is in 


VSUBYIMO alt L 


SOL 


106 hitreduction to Astrology 


It is worth noting that Mangal Dosha is considered to be also 
present when one takes Venus as Lagna and in the Navamsha 
also. Therefore, Mangal dosha will be found in most of the 
horoscopes. Added to this is the fact that any malefic planet in 
these houses is equally capable of causing disturbances to the 
married life. The malefic planets are the Sun, Saturn, Rahu and 
Ketu. The combined effect of these four malefics plus Mars has 
been studied. The malefic effect has been quantified and is 
tabulated in table A, below: 


Tabte A: Dosha Points given by Dr. B.V. Raman 


Awastha in Houses Ist, 7th and 8th In Houses 2nd, 4th and 12th 


1 dT Mars | Sat, Rahu, Ketu_ | Sun Sal, Rahu, Ketu] Sun 


Be 


25 12.5 
}2_OwnHouse| 60 | 45.00 | 30 15.00 
17.50 
[4 Neural | 80 | sooo | 40 | 0 | 30.00 | 20.00 | 
[s__ Enemy | 90 | 6750 | a5 | a5 | 3375 | 22.50 
[6 Debititated | 100 | 7500 | so | 50 | 37.50 | 25.00 | 


Mangal Dosha is acommon phenomenon and does not cause 
the problems that are ascribed to it. Careful matching solves most 
of the problems associated with this Dosha. 


Table of Ascendants from Panchanga 


A very useful part of Panclianga is the tables of the beginning 
of different Ascendants on a particular day. 

We know that 12 Ascendants, each conforming to the signs 
from Aries to Pisces, needs to rise, in 24 hrs, on the eastern 
horizon. This leads us to give approximately two hours to each 
sign in 24 hour period from one sunrise to the next. This is 
erroneous. Each Rasi is of 30° but due to the 234° tilt of the earth 
on its axis the signs even at equator take different time spans to 
rise. On the equator Aries, Virgo, Libra, and Pisces rise in 279 
‘pala’ ((ht 52 min approx) Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius 
rise in 299 pala (2hrs approx) and Gemini, Cancer, Sagittarius 
and Capricorn take 332 pala (2 hrs 9 min) to rise. This time 
changes as we keep progressing towards the poles. At the latitude 


The Panchanga 107 


of 60°N00 Pisces would rise in 28 minutes only where as Cancer 
or Sagittarius would take 2 hrs 36min. 

The significant point to note here is that at fixed Latitude 
or in other words in a particular town, a sign would take the 
same time to rise year after year. For example Aries takes Ihr 36 
min to rise in Delhi, which is true for all seasons and all times. 
Aries would rise with the Sun in April in 1 hr 36min. Aries would, 
in October rise on the eastern horizon at Sun set as the Sun would 
be is Libra but again its time taken would be lhr 36 min. A 
comprehensive table can be prepared which can also give 
relevant corrections for other towns. At the end of the book, one 
such ready reckner table has been appended. 


Other information in Panchanga 


A Pauchanga also gives the planetary positions at 05:30 IST 
besides the Tithi, Vaar, Nakshatra, Karana and the yoga, the five 
constituents of a Panchanga. The Panchanga provides information 
about Sunrise, Sunset, Moon rise\set, different important 
occasions and festivals etc. In fact this is an excellent and faithful 
companion for any sincere Astrologer. 

A unique method of working out the Vaar for any given date. 
It will be appropriate here to give an easy, useful method to know 
the day (Vaar) of any given date. This method was explained by 
a polite, humble, but outstanding astrologer Shri Bhairava Jha, 
of Bihar. 

First see the table : 


Month Constants 


SoAARAARAAARAD 
year 6 
eapyearlols[af}olz|slols}e]i|a | 


The above mentioned table is divided in to two sections viz. the 
non-leap year and the leap year. Let us take up an example in 
which we shall work out the day (Vaar) of 15" August 1947. 1947 
is a non-leap year. Therefore, the upper table shal] be used. The 


108 Introduction to Astrology 


value ascribed to the Month August is 3. We shall now work out 
the Vaer on 15" August 1947 in a step by step manner. 


Step 1: Look at the last two digits of the year first. The last two 
digits of the year 1947 are 47. We shall call this as ‘A’. 


Step 2: Divide this number by 4 and find out the quotient. 
When we divide 47 by 4, the quotient is 11. We shall 
call this as ‘B’. 


Step 3: Add’A’ and ‘B’. In the given example it would be 47+11 
= 58. We shall call this as ‘C’. 


Step 4: Add the calendar date to ‘C’. In the given example, the 
date is 15'*. Therefore the new total shall be 58 + 15 = 
73. We shall call it ‘D’. 


Step 5: Add the value for the month as ascribed in the table 
above to ‘D’. As we have already seen, this is 3. 3 + ‘D’ 
= 3+ 73 = 76. We shall call it E’. 


Step 6: Divide ’E’ by 7. The remainder shall be the day or the 
Vaar in case we consider 1,2, 3, 4,5, 6 and 7 as Sunday, 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday respectively. The remainder would be 6, when 
we divide 76 by 7. Therefore, on the 15" August 1947, 
the Vaar was Friday. 


In case of Leap year, all the steps are the same. Only difference is 
that the value for the month shall be adopted for the leap year. 
We shall understand it through another example. Let us work 
out the Vaar for 15"* March 1996. We shall take 96 first (the last 
two digits for the year) and divide the same by 4. The quotient 
is 21 on to which we add the last two digits of the year. The total 
works out to be 21 + 96 = 117. Now we add the calendar date i.e. 
15 to 117. The total is 132. From the table above, add 3 for March 
(leap year) to 132. The new total is 135. Divide this by 7. The 
remainder is 2 i.e. Monday. Therefore, on 15 March 1996, the 
Vaar was Monday. 

For the 21* Century, the method remains the same with a 
slight modification that the last two digits are to be considered 
with a base of 100 i.e. we take year 2000 as 100. Therefore, the 


The Panchanga 109 


last digits for 2007 shall be 107 as ‘A’. Let us work out the Vaar 
for 1“ January 2007. : 


Step 1: Here ’A’ shall be 107 since the base year 2000 is 100. 


Step 2: Divide this number by 4 and find out the quotient. 
When we divide 107 by 4, the quotient is 26. We shall 
call this as ‘B’. 


Step 3: Add ‘A’ and ‘B’. in the given example it would be 
107+26 = 133. We shall call this as ‘C’. 


Step 4: Add the calendar date to’C’. In the given example, the 
date is 1". Therefore the new total shal] be 133 + 1 = 
134. We shall call it ’D’. 


Step 5: Add the value for the month January as ascribed in the 
table above for the non - leap year to ‘D’. As we have 
already seen, this is 1. 1 + ‘D’ = 1 + 134 = 135. We shall 
call it ’E’. 

Step 6: Divide ’E’ by 7. The remainder is 2. Therefore, Monday 
is the day or the Vaar on 1st January 2007. 


Sri Bhairava Jha gives an interesting method to approximately 
find out the Nakshatra in case the Hindu month and the Tithz is 
known. This is overwhelmingly simple. According to this theory, 
the counting shall be done from Kartika. Therefore, Kritika, 
Margshirsha, Pushya, Magha, Phalguni, Chaitra, Vaishakha, Jyesthn, 
Ashada, Shravana, Bhadra Pada and Ashwina shall be addressed as 
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11 and 12 respectively. We have to find out 
the distance of the Hindu month from Kritika. The next set of 
information required would be about the Tithi. We consider 
Krishna Paksha Pratipada as 1. Thus Amavasya and Purninia would 
be 15 and 30 respectively. Let us work out the Nakshatra for 22™' 
October 2007 i.e. Ashwina Shukla Pratipada. Ashwina is 11 months 
away from Kritika. Multiply this with 2. The result is 22. Now 
add the number of Titi to this value. The Tithi is Shukla Ekadashi 
i.e. 26. Therefore the result is 22 + 26 = 48. Reduce the multiples 
of 27 from this value. The remainder shall give the number of 
Nakshatra elapsed. Here, when we subtract 27 from 48, the 


110 Introduction to Astrology 


remainder is 21.Therefore on that day the moon should be in the 
22 Nakshatra i.e. Shravana. However, from the Panchanga it 
appears that the Nakshatra running on that day was Shatbishaj. 
Thus there are very small errors in this method. 


CHAPTER 16 


Casting of Horoscope by 
Modern Method 


Introduction 


1. First requirement for casting of horoscope is to determine 
the ascendant (Lagna) which is the rising sign on the 
Eastern Horizon at the time of occurrence of any event (in 
this case birth). Due to rotation of the Earth on its axis once 
during 24 Hrs approximately, all the twelve Zodiac signs 
get a chance to rise at some point of time. The exact degree 
of the Zodiac, at which the sign is rising, is required to be 
known. The rising degree is dependant on the Sidereal Time 
(ST). ST is the true time of complete revolution of a planet 
around the Sun with reference to a fixed distant star. 

2. For the purpose of calculation of relevant data, the 
following will be required (use of Chitrapaksha Ayanamsha 
is recommended):- 


(a) Lahiri’s Indian Ephemeris for the relevant years. 
(b) Lahiri’s Table of Ascendants 


Steps for calculation of ascendants from Table of Ascendants 


3. Sidereal Time (ST) for Northern Latitudes 


(i) Table I give ST at 12 hrs Noon local mean time for 
different days of the year for 82 "E30 longitude for the 
year 1900 AD. 


(ii) (Year correction) Table II gives correction to be applied 
for different years. Note the signs + / - carefully. (Table 
II (a) gives corrections for older centuries as well). 


112 Introduction to Astrology 


(iii) (Longitude correction) Next correction to be applied 
for localities based on longitudinal difference. Pages 
100 - 111 at the end of the Table of Ascendants, gives 
correction to Indian sidereal Time of Principal cities in 
the relevant column. Again sign must be appropriately 
applied. The result so obtained, called ‘A’ is the ST for 
the relevant data and place of birth at 12 hrs noon LMT. 
(iv) Work out the Time of birth (based on 24 hrs system 
and not AM / PM) in IST / ZST. Apply LMT correction, 
given under relevant column against each place of 
birth, at the end. 
Find difference of this LMT from 12 hrs noon i.e. if 
before noon, deduct time from 12 and if afternoon 
deduct 12 from this LMT and get TI (Time Interval) . 
(vi) From Table IV page 5, apply correction to this TI and 
get the result of increased TI Called ‘B’. 
(vii) If TOB is afternoon then add B to A (A+B) and if before 
noon then A - B. The result will be ST of birth. 
(viii) Calculate the ascendant from relevant page as per 
latitude (pages 9-79). 
(ix) To this ascendant apply Ayanamsha correction from 
pages 6 and 7. Result is the exact longitude of Lagna. 


(v 


~~ 


4. Calculation of Ascendant for Southern Latitudes 
(i) To the Sidereal Time calculated for Northern Latitude 

at step VII above apply + / - 12 hrs to the ST. 

(ii) Treating this as the new ST calculate ascendant as per 
step VIII above and apply Ayanamsha correction. 

(iii) Add / subtract 6 signs (i.e. 18:00 hrs) to the result above 
to get Ascendant for a place in Southern Latitude. 

Calculation of longitudes of planets 


5. From Table of daily planetary longitude in the Ephemeris 
for each month at 05:30 IST, note the longitude of each 
planet. 

6. Note daily motion for each i.e. motion in 24 hrs. from 
Ephemeris itself. - 


10. 


Casting of Horoscope by Modern Method 113 


Calculate motion for the duration elapsed between TOB 
and 05:30 for day of birth. 


Add this interpolated proportional motion to that obtained 
from tables at 05:30, get exact longitude for each planet 
which is same for both northern and southern latitude. 
Any planet if found (except Rahu and Ketu which are 
always in retrograde motion) in retrograde motion, Suffi- 
it by ‘R’. 

Last step is to draw the horoscope with signs, planets and 
their longitude. 


ILLUSTRATIONS OF CASTING OF HOROSCOPES 
The following illustrations are given :- 


1. 


4. 


Nirayana horoscope of a native born in Jabalpur on 26 
January 2007 at 17:58 IST. 


Nirayana horoscope of a native born at Calcutta (Alipur) 
on 18 February 2007 at 23:54 IST. (Note change of date and 
time here). 

Nirayana horoscope of a native born in a Foreign City 
OTTAWA (Canada) on 9 March 2007 at 21:35 ZST. 


Nirayana Horoscope of a native born in southern latitude 
in Johannesburg (South Africa) on 23 March 2007 at 10:0 
ZST. 


114 Introduction to Astrology 


Illustration 1: To cast horoscope of native born in Jabalpur 


Data : TOB 17:58 IST on 26 January 2007 


Latitude: 23° N 09’ 

ST Correction for Jabalpur 
Ayanamsha correction for 2007 
LMT Correction for Jabalpur 
Correction for 2007 


Solution 
1. ST at 12 LMT at 82° E 30m 
on 26 January 1900 
2. Correction for year 2007 
3. Correction place Delhi 


4. ST at 12 noon LMT at 79° E57’ 


on 26 January 2007 
5. Time of birth IST 
6. LMT correction 
7. LMT at birth 


8. Difference from noon 


9. Correction to increase 
Tl] (Table IV) 


10. Corrected TI 


11. ST of birth (A+B) 


Longitude: 79° E 57° 
(+) 02s 


(-) 58' 
(-)10m 12s 
(+) 12s 
h om s 
20 20 22 
12. 
02 


20 20 36 ‘A’ 


12. Ascendant from p 37 for 2hrs8min. 3° 14° 41' 


for another Imin. 21sec. 


13.Ayanamsha correction for 2007 


14. Ascendant or Lagna 


17. 58 00 
- 10 12 
17. 47 «848 
~12 
05 47 48 
+49 
+08 
05 48 45 'B 
20 20 36 
26 O09 21 
-24 00 00 
02. 09 21 
+18 
- 58' 
3° 14° O1 


Casting of Horoscope by Modern Method 115 
CALCULATION OF PLANETARY POSITIONS 
ILLUSTRATION-I 


TOB 17:58 IST; difference from 05:30= 12:48 =748 minutess 
divided by 1440 minutes (24 hrs); 748/ 1440 = 0.519 


Factor to be applied to daily motion = 0.519 
|_| sun | oon | os | sive | top| ven [sof toms {ro | 
= 05:30 aoe : 
1.2007, 


Motion in <a 69 eae 77 as aa ee ke 

745 minutes, arare TSE" 

App! 

ae al pa Cede re aa 


Illustration 2: To cast horoscope of native born in Kolkatta 


Data: TOB 23:54 IST on 18 Feb 2007; Difference from 5:30 a.m. = 
1104 minutes. 


2o/ 1/27 


Latitude 22° N 32' 
Longitude 88° E 20° 
ST Correction for Kolkatta (-) 4s 
Ayanamsha correction for 2007 (-)58' 
LMT Correction for Kolkatta (+)23m 20 s 
ST Correction for 2007 (+)12s 
Solution h mis 
1. ST at 12 noon LMT at 82° E 30° 
on 19 Feb 1900 21: 55: 00 
2. Correction for year 2007 + . 12 
3. Correction place Kolkatta 7 04 
4. ST at 12 noon LMT at 88° E 20° eee, 
on 19 Feb 2003 "'A' 21: 55: 08 
5. Time of birth IST 18 Feb 2007 23: 54: 00 


6. LMT Correction + 23: 20 


116 Introduction to Astrology 


7. LMT at birth Next day i.e. 24: 17: 20 
19Feb 2007 0: 17: 20-x 
8. Difference from noon; since TI is 
before noon 12-"X' =11: 42: 40 
9. Correction to increase TI (Table IV) +0: 1: 55 
10. Corrected TI 'B' 11: 44: 35 
11. ST of birth (A - B) A-B=10: 10: 33 
12. Ascendant from p 36 for 10 hrs 8 min. 752. 58' 00 
for additional 2min 33 sec + 33' 47" 
753° 31" 47" 
13. Ayanamsha correction for 2007 - 55’ 
14. Ascendant or Lagna (Scorpio 2° 20’) 732°) 36' 47" 


ILLUSTRATION-II 
[sive] mere | jup [ven [sone | aru fers | 


AT 05:30 10°9"25'02" | 82957 722 32706 JiO-2aay | 22" 
19.2.2007 


ea a 


Illustration 3 to cast er of native born in OTTAWA 
(Canada) 


Data : TOB 21:35 ZST on 09 Mar 2007 


18/2/2007 


Latitude 45° N 24' 
Longitude 75° W 43° 
ST Correction for the place (+)1m44s 
Ayanamsha correction for the 

year 2007 (-)58' 
LMT Correction -2m 52s 
ST Correction for Ottawa +12s 


IST from ZST +10 hrs 30 minutes 


Casting of Horoscope by Modern Method 117 


TOB in India = 21:35+10:30 = 32:05 = 8:05 a.m. next day i.e. 
10.3.2007 


Solution 
h m $ 
1. ST at 12 noon LMT at 82° E 30° 
on 9 Mar 1900 23: 05: 58 
2. Correction for year 2007 + 12 
3. Correction place OTTAWA (Canada) + O1 44 
4, ST at 12 noon LMT at 75° W 43/ 
on 09 Mar 03 'A' 23: 07: 54 
5. Time of birth ZST 9 Mar 2007 21: 35: 00 
6. LMT Correction - 02: 52 
7. LMT at birth 21: 32: 08 
8. Difference from noon -12: 
Time interval afternoon 09: 32: 08 
9. Correction to increase TI (Table IV) +0: 1: 34 
10. Corrected TI 'B' 09: 33: 42 
11. ST of birth (A + B) 32: 41: 36 
, -24: 
08: 41: 36 
12. Ascendant from p 66 for 08 hrs 40 min. 6°79 17' 00 
for 1m 38sec + 18’ =00 
667° 35° 00 
13. Ayanamsha correction for 2003 - 58° 00 
14. Ascendant or Lagna 66" 37’ 00 


i.e. Libra 6° 37' 
ILLUSTRATION-III 


TOB 21:35 ZST or 08:05 10 Mar 07 IST difference from 0530 = 
155 mins; factor = 155/1440 = 0.108 


118 Introduction to Astrology 


es a 


AT OSA 125418] 70708" EES | TAM ID [12626 [F237 [0IF2"9 $7" -2I2Y'57 
13 207 


“ el a ll 
3 sta bd Ge 


I}lustration 4 to cast horoscope of native born in Johannesburg 
(South Africa) 


Data :TOB 10:00 ZST on 23 Mar 2007 Southern Latitude 


Motion in 
155 amnutes 
(actor 0.108) 


Tosation at 
TES 
10/3/2007 


Latitude 26°S 15’ 

Longitude 28°E 

ST Correction (+) 36s 

Ayanamsha correction -58' 

LMT Correction (-)8m 

Correction for 2007 (+)12 

IST from ZST (+) 3 hrs 30 minutes 
Solution 


h m s 
1. ST at 12 noon LMT at 822 E 30m 


on 23 Mar 1900 0: 01: 10 
2. Correction for year 2007 + 12 
3. Correction place Johannesberg + 36 
4, ST at 12 noon LMT at 28°E 
on 23 Mar 07 0: 01: 58 
+24 
'A' 24: O01: 58 
5. Time of birth ZST 23 Mar 2007 10: 00: 00 
6. LMT Correction - 08: 00 
7. LMT at birth 09: 52: 00 
8. Difference from noon 


(12:00:00 - 09:52:00) 


Casting of Horoscope by Modern Method 119 


Time interval before noon 02: O08: 00 
9. Correction to increase T! (Table IV) +0: OQ: 2) 
10. Corrected T1 'B' 02: 08: 21 
11. ST of birth (A - B) 24: O1: 58 
-02: O08: 21 
21: 53: 37 
being in southern zone add 
or substract 12 hrs - 12 
12. Ascendant from p 44 for 09 hrs 52' 6§28° 05’ 00 
(for lat 26° N 30') for 1m 37sec = + 22° 00 
6°28" 27’ 00 
13. For latitude 26° North from page 43 65 28° 44 
14.For latitude 26°15’ by interpolation =65 28° 36' 
15. Ayanamsha correction for 2007 - 38" 
65 27° 38' 
16. For southern zone 
Ascendant or Lagna - 6 
Aries 27°41 0° 27? 38 


ILLUSTRATION - 1V 
TOB 1000 hrs 23 Mar 2007 ZST + IST Correction 3.30 = TOB 13.30 
IST 
Difference from 0530 = 8 hrs or 480 minutes 
Factor to be applied 480 / 1440 = 0.333 


[sen [eee [ee [See [op [ve Pe] eae | are 
One Bit ekg 


AT 05:30 vreir | ss0r T2531 1 fr2esx rows a9 
233.2007 
In 24 bes 5933" | 14"1636" ky [mz] I 


Motion tn 1951 44532" 
480 minutes 
(actor 0.333) 


Position at IPB QAI, Ve 
13:30 
2443/2007 


CHAPTER 17 


Casting Horoscope 
by Traditional Method 


Casting of horoscope by traditional method may appear to be 
obsolete at present but the ingenuity displayed by the seers and 
their power to relate time and distance in unique manner is still 
a matter of awe and respect. 

Before we go in to the actual process of casting the horoscope 
traditionally, it is worthwhile recapitulating that Vedas did not 
mention about the Ascendant or Signs. In fact two great epics, 
The Ramayana and the Mahabharata only mention about the 
placement of planets in Constellations (and not in signs or the 
ascendant). ; 

However, Vantana Purana and Narada Maha Purana mention 
about Signs and their relationship with Constellations. In Narada 
Maha Purana it is mentioned that Rishi Narada meets his four 
elder brothers, namely ‘Sanaka’, ‘Sanandana’,'Sanata kumar’ and 
‘Sanatana’ on the bank of holy river Ganga where Rishi Narada is 
described about the six limbs of the Vedas. Rishi Sanandana 
describes very lucidly the 'Tri-skandha Jyotisha’ (the three limbs 
of Astrology viz. 'Ganita’, ‘Jataka’ and ‘Samhita’ which could be 
translated as Mathematics, Predictive and Mundane aspects of 
Astrology) to Rishi Narada. In the ‘Ganita’ sub-section the relation 
between time and distance has been unequivocally established 
through which the Ascendant can be worked out properly 
(though not very accurately when compared with the modern 
method of working out ascendant. Further, the Puranic method 
of working out the longitudes of various planets is rather 
complicated and arduous which do not yield very reliable results 
vither). Keeping the above facts in mind, an effort has been made 


Casting Horoscope by Traditional Method 121 


to present the method which, though, is not exactly based upon 
the Narada Maha Purana’s disposition, however, most of the 
traditional Astrologers use the same to cast the horoscope. We 
may as well describe it as Panchanga based traditional method. 


Panchanga based traditional method 


The tools and the data required for casting a horoscope by this 
method would be, of course, the date, the time and the place of 
birth besides the ‘Panchanga’ which is applicable for the given 
place for the said year. 


The Time of Birth the ‘Isktakala’ 


In the modern method of casting of horoscope, we refer to the 
time of birth at any particular place in relation to the Zonal 
Standard Time of the place where the clock starts at midnight of 
the Gregorian calendar every day. Though this system is quite 
convenient for day-to-day purpose, it has no relationship with 
the place of birth and therefore, in casting of a horoscope by the 
traditional method. Therefore, few corrections are required to 
be made to make this time fit for the purpose of casting of a 
horoscope. In the traditional system, the time of birth is always 
referred to as ‘Ishtakala’ which is the time elapsed since the 
time of sun rise at that particular place. ‘Ishtakala’ literally 
means the desired time. This makes lot more sense since here 
we directly relate to the local time of birth. Since there is very 
little in our traditions free from controversy, the time of sun-rise 
has also been a matter of debate. 


The Time of sun-Rise 


Without wasting any time on merits/demerits of various views, 
we shall consider the appearance of the centre of the sun disc 
on the horizon as the time of sun-rise. It has further got to be 
remembered that the time of sun-rise shall vary from place to 
place since the apparent path of sun, the ecliptic, is inclined at 
23 27’ to the equator. Therefore, the time of sun-rise shall differ 
for even such place, which has same longitude but different 


122 Introduction to Astrology 


latitude. Not only that, the time of sunrise shall differ for even 
such places, which have same longitude but different latitude. 
Also, the time of Sun-rise would vary with sun‘s declination. 
Therefore, at two different places, but on the same day, and at 
the same place on two different days, the time of sun-rise shall 
not be the same. 


The Traditional units of time measurement 


Some of us may be aware that in the traditional system, time is 
considered in ‘Ghati’ or ‘Danda’ (Ghati and Danda are the same 
unit of measurement of time). The time between two successive 
sunrise had to be 60 Ghati or 60 Danda. Earlier an earthen pot, 
with a measured hole in the bottom, to be filled with water or 
sand, was used to keep a record of time. Since a pot in Sanskrit 
is called ‘Ghatam’ therefore, the unit of time was called as ‘Ghat’. 
The design of the size of the pot and the hole was done in such 
a controlled manner that the time taken for emptying the pot 
would be equal to one Ghati. therefore, between one sunrise to 
the other, 60 fillings would be required. On the other hand, 
‘Danda’ in Sanskrit means a staff, preferably made up of wood. 
There was yet another methad of knowing the time by measuring 
the shadow of the ‘Danda’. One ‘Ghuti’ or ‘Danda‘ is equal to 
modern 24 minutes. Therefore in one Hour, there would be 2.5 


60 ‘Pala’; | 1 ‘Pala’ 
1 ‘Ghat’ or ‘Danda‘=| 24 Minutes} 1 ‘Pala‘= 


Ghati or Danda. In other words, 24 hours is equal to 60 ‘Ghati’ or 
‘Danda’. The subdivisions of ‘Ghati’ or ‘Danda’ and their relations 
to modern time divisions are mentioned in the table in the 
previous page. One can notice that the traditional time division 
is smaller, and therefore more accurate, than the modern one. 


Working out ‘Ishtakala’ and the time of sun-rise at any place: 
The first step towards casting the traditional horoscope would 
be to work out the ‘Ishtakala‘ for the native. For this we need to 


Casting Horoscope by Traditional Methoul 123 


know the time of sun-rise at the place of birth. Generally, the 
local time of Sun-rise, along with the time sun-rise for various 
major Cities is available in the ’‘Panchanga’. However, for any other 
place also the time of sun-rise can be worked out without any 
difficulty with the help of details given in the ‘Panchanga’. The 
corrections required to be done are called ‘Samskara’. We are 
aware that the time of sun-rise at any place remains more or less 
the same on a given day of Gregorian calendar every year. 
Therefore, every year, let us say, on 26th January, the sun shall 
rise approximately at the same time in Delhi (or for that matter 
any other place in the world) with very minor variations. We 
shall now learn to work out the time of sun-rise for any place 
with the help of a ‘Panchanga’ through an example. Our readers 
are aware that unless mentioned otherwise, all references in this 
book have been made to famous ‘Sri Vishwa Vijay Panchanga’ 
which is valid for Delhi and the adjacent areas. Since every year 
the time of sun-rise shall remain more to less the same on a 
particular day, therefore , data from ‘Panchanga’ of any year shall 
be valid. However, for present example, ‘Panchanga’ for the year 
2006-2007 is being referred to. 


Example: To work out the time of sun-rise for Jabalpur on 
26th January, 2007. 


The following data have been taken from the ‘Panchanga’ 


SI. | tem Details Ref. | Remarks 
No. page 
Time of Sun-rise in 7:17 AM 77 =| Friday, Ashtmi (till 15:37), 
Delhi on 26.01.2007. Ashwini (till 30:22 Hrs.) 
3. | Longitude of Jabalpur | 23"N10’ 


(+) 00"11"04>. 


Time Difference of 


on (+) sign indicates Urat Jabalpur 
Jabalpur from Delhi. 


is East of Delhi. 


s 


Declination of Sun on | 18°S52¢ 


26.01.07 at 5:30 AM. 


Correction on accaunt 
of the Latitude of the 

place and Declination 
of sun. 


The correction is in minutes. 

The first column and the 

first row refer to Declination 

of sunand latitude of the 
place respectively. 


Has been 
workedout 
as step IT 


124 Introduction to Astrology 


Step I: Since Jabalpur is east of Delhi, therefore, the sun 
would rise 00"11™ 04° earlier in Jabalpur than Delhi. Therefore, 
the time of sun-rise, at Jabalpur, on account of difference of 
Latitude, would be (7°:17":00*-00°:11™:04* = 7°:05™:56*) 

Step H: Corrections for Latitude of place and Declination 
of sun: Now we shall refer to the table on page121 (’Charantara 
Sarini’ or the table of difference of time in minutes and 
applicable for Northern Hemisphere only) to account for 
variation of Declination of Sun and Latitude of the place. As 
has been explained at sl. no. 6 of the table above, the first column 
refers to the declination of the Sun. On the given date (26.01.07) 
the declination of sun is 18°S52’.We can round it off to 19"S., 
One may further notice in the table that up to 29° latitude, in 
case the declination of sunis south, a (-) sign is to be considered 
in the correction while as under similar circumstances, for 
longitude 30° or more, a (+) sign is to consideréd for corrections. 
Meaning thereby that at latitude, less than 30°, when the 
declination of sun is south, the sun would rise early and the 
vice versa shall also hold good. Laced with this information, 
we explore the above mentioned table. The latitude of Jabalpur 
is 23°N10". It lies between 23°N and 24°N. The Values of 
corrections at 19°S declination at these latitudes are 10 and 8 
minutes respectively. By interpolation, the value of correction 
at 23°N10’ works out to be 9 minutes and 40 seconds which 
shall have to be subtracted from the value calculated at step 1 
above i.e. 7" 05™* 56. Therefore, the correct time of sun-rise 
at Jabalpur on 26.01.2007 shall be 6 *56™'16**. 

The ‘Ishtakala’ fora child born at 17:58:00Hrs. at Jabalpuron 
26.01.2007 

Having known the time of sun-rise on a particular day, now 
the next stage is to find out the ‘Is/ttakaln' which we have defined 
as the time elapsed from the sun-rise up to the time of epoch, 
say the birth of a child. this has been illustrated hereunder. 


Description (at Jabalpur) Time (Hrs. Mts. & Sec.) 
Time of Birth (On 25.01.07) 17:58:00 
Time of Sun-rise (On 25.01.07) 06:56:16 


3 Ishtakala (1-2) 11:01:44 


Casting Horoscope by Traditional Method 125 


Thus the ‘Ishtakala’ for the native is 11!" 01™"44*". We shall 
covert these in to ‘Ghati' ‘Pala’ and ‘Vipala’. 


Ghati Pala Vipala 


44Sec.= 44x2.5=110 Vipala = 00 01 50 
02 Mts.= 02 x2.5 = 005 Pala = 00 02 30) 
Ji Hrs. = 11x 2.5 = 27.50 Ghati = 27 30 10) 

Ishtakala 27 34 20) 


Thus, the ‘Ishtakala’ for the native is 27 Shi 34Pala2QViraly — 
1654 Pala. 


To work out the Ascendant for the native 


This is the most fascinating part of traditional method of casting 
the horoscope. We are aware that the Zodiac has been divided 
into 12 equal signs of 30° each, commencing from Aries and 
ending at Pisces. Even though each sign is equal in length, those 
do not take equal time of 2 hrs. each to rise on the eastern 
horizon due to the following reasons. 

Firstly, the ecliptic (and therefore the zodiac) is not at right 
angles to the axis of rotation of earth. The equator, instead of 
being parallel to the zodiac, is inclined at 23°27’. Secondly, the 
Zodiac appears as an ellipse instead of a perfect circle. 

As a result of the obliquity of the Zodiac, the seasonal 
variations and different duration of days and nights at different 
times of the year are experienced. 

No wonder, therefore, that the time taken by the signs to 
remain on the eastern horizon is called ‘Oblique Ascension’. 
In the ancient texts, Oblique Ascension has been mentioned as 
‘Rashimana’. The literal meaning of ‘Rashimana’ would be the 
measurement of sign (in terms of time). 

Rashimana, is defined as the time taken by any ‘Rasi’ (sign) 
to rise completely on the eastern horizon. The unit of time is 
either ‘Pala’ or ‘Ashu’. ‘Ashu’ is also called ‘Prana’. One ‘Ashu’ 
or ‘Prana’ is equal to 10 ‘Vipala’ or 6 ‘Asu’ is equal to one ‘Pala’. 
The fact that ‘Rashimana’ for different Signs are different was 
quite well known to the authors of ‘Narada Maha Purana’ as 
would be evident from various verses of the same. 


126 Introduction ta Astrology 


It is another astounding fact that in the remote past, the 
seers had worked out the ‘Rashimana’ so very accurately at the 
equator. In the traditional system, the time taken by any sign 
to rise completely at the Equator is called ‘Lankodaya’ or the 
time taken to rise at ‘Lanka’. One school of thought advocates 
that in the olden times the actual ‘Lanka’ extended up to the 
equator and that the same has been submersed in the Indian 
Ocean. 

Therefore, the ‘Rashimana’ at the equator is still addressed 
as ‘Lankodaya’ and Lanka is referred to as ‘Niraksha Desha’ (the 
land of zero Latitude). The values of ’Lankodaya’ for all the 12 
signs are mentioned hereunder. 


Signs (Rashis) 


No. 
Aries{-) Virgo (+) Libra(+) Pisces (-) 1674 279 
& 
Ea) I = 
3. [Gemini (-) | Cancer (+) | Sagittarius (+) |Capricorm (-) 1931 322 
1) P 


In the Northern Hemisphere of the earth, if we move above 
the equator and towards the pole, the time required to rise 
completely for Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Capricorn, Aquarius and 
Pisces are reduced with reference to ‘Lankodaya’, Therefore, in 
the table above, these signs are preceded by (-) marks. Further, 
the time required for Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio and 
Sagittarius to completely rise on the eastern horizon are 
increased. Therefore (+) sign had been ascribed after each of 
these signs. As would be seen from the above table, Pisces and 
Aries are two adjoining signs, besides the other two adjoing 
signs Virgo and Libra which take equal time to rise. These pairs 
are opposite to each other. Similar is the case at sl. no. 3 where 
Gemini/Cancer pair, posited bang opposite to Sagittarius/ 
Capricorn pair, takes equal time to rise. Sl.no.2 consists of signs, 
which flank the signs of sl.no.1 and 3. If one moves from Aries 
to Taurus, the time taken is more. Further, Gemini takes longer 
time to rise than Taurus. At the end of Gemini, the sun enters 
in to Southern sojourn, though still remains in the northern 


Casting Horoscope by Traditional Meth 127 


hemisphere. Cancer and Gemini take same amount of time to 
rise on the eastern horizon. Leo takes lesser time than cancer, 
but equal to its mirror image, Aquarius. Still lesser time, than 
the Leo, is taken by Virgo, which is the mirror image of Pisces. 
The same has been explained in the figure no.1 given hereuncler, 


= 


The reasons of difference of ‘Rashimana’ 


As we are aware, the movement of earth around the sun is 
elliptical and not a perfect circle. As a result, what is seen of 
the zodiac from the earth is also an ellipse and not a perfect 
circle. Therefore, for the same angle of 30° sustained at the 
centre of the earth, the chord lengths on the zodiac shall be 
different. This has been shown in the sketch given above. 

As one moves away from the equinoxes, the apparent 
distortion of the zodiac becomes more and more pronounced. 
Consequently, some of the signs take much longer time to rise 
at the eastern horizon, while as sume others remain on the 
eastern horizon for very little time. It may be interesting to 
know that at 60°N latitude, the signs Pisces and Aries take only 
about 28 minutes while as Leo, Virgo, Libra and Scorpio takes 
more than 3 hours torise completely though Pisces, Aries, Virgo 
and Libra take the same time to rise completely at the equator. 

For the northern hemisphere the type of corrections in the 
‘Lankodaya", whether positive or negative, has already been 
indicated in the above stated table. 


128 Introduction to Astrology 


‘Charakhanda’‘ - the corrections in the ‘Lankodaya‘ to obtain 
the ‘Rashimana’: 


‘Charakhanda’ (Ascensional Difference) are the corrections 
required in the ‘Lankodaya’ to find out the ‘Rashimana’ at any 
particular place. Since at the equator, no correction is required 
in the ‘Lankodaya’‘, therefore, the ‘Charakhanda‘ at the equator shall 
be zero. To work out ‘Charakhanda’, at any place we shall have to 
learn a new term ‘Palabha’. 


‘Palabha’: 


‘Palabha’ would literally mean the measurement of the shadow 
(of a shaft at loca] mid-noon) in ‘Pala’. Technically itis a location 
specific parameter, depending upon the latitude of the place, 
which, when multiplied with specific constants, give the value 
of ‘Charakhanda’. The ‘Palabha’ is measured in ‘Angula’ ‘Prati- 
Angula’ and ‘Tat-Prati Angula’ (distance). One ‘Angula’ means a 
finger width and would be approximately equal to 20 mm. itis 
simply amazing to find that how the ‘Palabhia’, whose unit is 
time, has been related to Longitude of a place, whose unit is 
distance. 

To determinate the ‘Palabha’ at any place, the method 
mentioned in ‘Narada Maha Purana’ is brilliantly indigenous. It 
starts with the description of a ‘Shanku’ which would be 
required to measure the ‘Palabha’. 


*Shanku’ 


The word ‘Shianku’ has many meanings. The most accepted one 
is a cone. However, it also means a ‘dried up tree trunk’ and 
various other such things which are cylindrical in shape. The 
‘Shanku', required for measuring ‘Palablia’ is basically a wooden 
cylinder of 12 ‘Angula’ in height and 2 ‘Anguia’ in diameter. 
The ‘Narada Maha Purana’ further suggests that either a flat 
stone should be chosen or a equal flat surface should be prepared. 
In the centre, a circle, 12 ‘Angula’ in radius i.e. equal to the height 
of the ‘Shank’, is drawn on this flat surface. At the centre of this 
circle. the ‘Shanku’ is placed. The length of the shadow of the 


Casting Horoscope by Traditional Method 129 


‘shanku’, at the local mid-noon on either of the ‘Sayana’ equinox 
days, shall be the “Palabha’ of the place. 


Palabha fice es Shanku is a 
cylindrical 
shaft of 12 
Angula 
The height and 
shadow of sees 
the Shanku a eter 
formed by a 
the Sun in positioned 
the N-S vertically 
direction at in the 
centre of 
local noon. haps 
the circle. 


In the diagram above, OA is the ‘Shanku’, OA is the shadow 
of the ‘Shanku’ at loca] mid-noon on one of the equinoxes. The 
radius of the circle is equal to 12 ‘Angiua’, i.e. the height of the 
‘Shanku’, We are also aware that the equinoxes occur twice 
annually viz. the Verna) and the Autumnal Equinoxes. These 
are called ‘Mesha’ and ‘Tula’ ‘Sankranti’, which occur on 23" 
March and 22" September every year respectively. These are 
the two dates in a year when the entire world over the durations 
of the day and the night are equal. 


Relation between Latitude and ‘Palabha’ of any place 


It is very interesting to note that angle of incident of the sun 
rays on the equinoxes at local noon is exactly the Latitude of 
the place. In the above shown sketch angle @ is the angle of 
incident of sun-rays.on the equinox day at the local mid-noon. 
This is also the latitude of the place where this ‘Shanku’ has 
been pegged in. In case the Jatitude of the place is known, it is 
no more necessary to wait for the local mid-noon on the equinox 
day to know the ‘Palabha’ of any place. Simple trigonometry 
should take away all the vows in this regard! If we loak back at 
the sketch once more, we should notice that 


Tan @ = OA,/OA 


130 Introduction to Astrologi 


or, OA, = OA x Tand 


Also, we are aware that OA, is the ‘Palabhia’ of the place 
and OA is the length of the ‘Shanku’, which is equal to 12 
‘Angula’. Therefore, ‘Palabha' for any place shall be equal to 12 
Tan © where © is the latitude of the place. Here the value of 
‘Palabha’ is directly in ‘Pala’. The Values of ‘Palabha’ for 
different latitudes have been worked out and enumerated in 
the table given hereunder. 


Latitude | ‘Palabha’] Latitude | ‘Palabha‘|] Latitude | ‘Palabha‘) Latitude |‘Palabha‘ 
in degrees | in ‘Pala’ | in alee in ‘Pala’ | in degrees] in ‘Pa in degrevs} in ‘Pala’ 


18 3.732 33 7.792 48 13.327 


50 44.301 


1S 3.215 30 6.928 45 32.000 20785 


For lower values of latitudes, the ‘Palabha’ can be inter- 
polated from the given table. However, for higher latitudes, 
exact of Tan © should be adopted to work out the ‘Palabha’. 


Example: to work out the ’Palabha’ for Jabalpur: The 
latitude for Jabalpur is 23° N 10’. The ‘Value of ‘Palabhia’ for 
Jabalpur, thereforé, shall be 12 x Tan 23°10’ = 12 x 0.427912071 
= 5,134944854, say 5.135 ‘Pala’. 


To work out ‘Charakhanda’ on the basis of “Palabha’: We 
have already learnt that to convert the ‘’Palabha’ in to 


Casting Horoscope by Traditional Method 131 


‘Charakhanda’, these shall have to be multiplied with constants. 
The constants of multiplications for various signs are 10, 8 and 
10/3 respectively. 
The ‘Charakhanda’ for Jabalpur has been worked out and 
indicated here under. 
“‘Charakhanda‘ 


Palabha | Mutti- 
Na for plying in 
ea constant ‘Pala’ 
Lain | | o_fons nn 
om Virgo te) | Libea() 51.35, 5495 
seompin(s) | Aquarius(s 
| 3 [Gemini (-) | Cancer (+) Baal Capneurn (-) 


a 

We have once again indicated in the table above that ta work 
out the ‘Rashimana’ at any place, the respective ‘Charakhanda’ 
for six signs, Commencing from Capricorn to Gemini (signs 
10,11, 12, 1, 2, & 3) are to subtracted from respective ‘Lankodaya' 
while as the ‘Charakhauda’ for remaining six signs, commencing 
from Cancer to Sagittarius (signs 4, 5, 6, 7,8 & 9) are to be added 
to the respective ‘Lankodaya’. Let us work out the ‘Rashimana’ 
for Jabalpur. The values have been worked out and tabulated 
in the table on the next page. 

It would be noticed that the sum of ‘Rashimana’ tor six Signs 
works out to 1800 ‘Pala’. Therefore, the sum of ’Rashimana’ for 
all the twelve signs at Jabalpur shall work out to 3,606 ‘Pain’ 
which is equal to 60 ‘Ghat’ or ‘Danda’. This is the time between 
one sun-rise to another sunrise. Following the same process, 
one can work out the ‘Rashimana’ at any place with the help of 
‘Panchanga’ 


41.08 sav 4] 


17.42 say 17 


s Lankedaya| Charakhanda | Rashmana = | Rashintana = | Cotati Tala 
{in Pala) (in Pala) | {in Pala} Laukindiya + Lankodrya - 
Charakhents | Chavakhuuda 


(in) : 7] (vdedvg ® (vat 


le Geman & c4 apricam| 322 
4 


Cancer & a Eecal 


| s | Leu & Scorpio 
KY Virgo & Labra 


132 Intreduction to Astrology 


To work out the Ascendant at 17:58 Hrs. at Jabalpur on 
26.01.2007 by traditiona] method 


The Ascendantis the Sign rising at the time of epoch on the eastern 
horizon. We are aware that in the morning, at the time of sun-rise, 
the ascendant would be the same sign where the sun is posited. 
The traditional method takes advantage of this information 
brilliantly to work out the Ascendant at any point of the day. The 
data shall be used from the Vishwa Vijay Panchanga. This we shall 
understand step by step through the example. 


Step 1 


First of all we shall find out the ‘Nirayana’ longitude of sun at 
the time of sun-rise in Jabalpur on 26.01.07 from the ‘Panchanga’. 
On page77 of ‘Panchatuga’ two horosocope are shown at the 
bottom, corresponding to 5:30 AM on the ‘Ashtimi’ (26.01.07) and 
"Purnima’ (23.01.07) of ‘Hindu’ month ‘Magha’. 1n the first 
horscope, the ‘Nirayana’ longitude of Sun at 5:30 AM is 
9°11°40’51” and the daily mation of the sun has been mentioned 
as 60'59". Now the longitude of sun on 26" January at the time 
of sun-rise i.e. 6"*56™ 16% shall be worked out. 

Daily mation of sun = 60'59"; Motion between 5:30 AM and 
6:56:16 AM i.e. for 1:26:16 (01.438 hrs.) on 26.01.07 has been 
worked out here under. 

= (01.438 x 60'59")/24 = 0"03'39" 

The total motion of sun from 5:30 AM on 23.01.07 to 
6:56:16AM on 26.01.07 is = 0° 0339” 

Thus, the longitude of sun on 26.01.07 at 6:56:16 AM is 
9°11°40'51"+ 0°03'39" = 9511°44'30" 

Step 2 


We shall now convert the longitude of sun from ‘Nirayana’ to 
‘Sayana’ by adding the ‘Ayanamsha’ for 26.01.07. For this 
purpose, the ‘Chitrapaksha Ayanamsha’ on the given date from 
the ‘Panchanga’ shall be worked out. It may be of interest to 
recapitulate that where as for predictive purpose the longitudes 
of all the planets and the ascendant are to be considered in 
’Nirayana’ system , the astronomical calculations are done in 


Casting Horoscope by Traditional Method 133 


‘Sayana’ System. On page 130 of Panchanga the ‘Chitrapaksha 
Ayanamsha‘ in 2007 is 23°56'59”. The precision of equinox on 
23.01.07 is 3’. We are considering 23rd January since this is closest 
to the given date 26.01.07. Thus, the ‘Chitrapaksha Ayanamsha' 
on 26.01.07 shall be 23°56’59"+3" = 23°57'02". By adding the 
‘Nirayana’ longitude of sun to this value, the ‘Sayana’ longitude 
of Sun on the given date the at the time of sun-rise shall be 
worked out. Therefore, the longitude of Sun at the time of 
sunrise on 26.01.2007 = 9511°44'30"+23"57'02” = 10°05°41'32". This 
is the exact sign rising at the time of sun-rise on the given date 
and place. 


Step 3 


To find out the sign rising at the time of the birth, we shall take 
help of the fact worked out earlier as step - 2 that at the time of 
sun-rise Sayana Capricorn was over and 05°41'32" Sayana 
Aquarius had already risen on the eastern horizon. The 
remaining 24°18'28" of Sayana Aquarius was yet to rise. From 
the ‘Rasimana’ table for Jabalpur it would be seen that Aquarius 
takes 258 ‘Pala’ to rise complete 30° at Jabalpur. The time, 
required for the remaining part to rise can be worked out as 
(258 Pala x 24.308") /30°= 209 ‘Pala’. 


Step 4 


To find out the Ascendant at the time of ‘Ishtakala’. We shall 
keep on adding the time of rise of successive signs to the ending 
time of Sagittarius till we reach the ‘Ishtakala’ which is 
27Ghati3.4Pala2QVirala This can be round off to 27x60+34 = 1654 ‘Pala’. 


Sl. No. Sign Rashimana {Cumulative Rashimana 
to rise (In Pala) (In Pala) 
| Aquarius | 209 | 209 
a 


| Aries | 228 | 665 
Taurus 33 
Gemini 1228 


1567 


134 Introduction to Astrology 


From the above table it would be clear that sign Leo shall 
start rising after 1567 ‘Pala’ of the sun-rise and shall continue 
to be on the eastern horizon till 1907 ‘Pala‘ after the sun rise. 
Since the ‘Isiitakala‘ lies between these two values, therefore, at 
the time of the epoch, Sayana Leo was the rising sign. 


Step 5 


The difference between the ‘Ishtakala’ and the commencement 
of sign Sayana Leo is (1654-1567) = 87 ‘Pala’. Since Leo takes 
340 ‘Pala’ to rise complete 30°, in 87 ‘Pala’ it would rise (87 x 30) 
/340 = 7°40'35". Thus the ’Sayana’ Ascendant, at the time of 
epoch, is 4°7°40'35". 

Step 6 


The ‘Nirayana’ Ascendant can now be worked out by 
subtracting the ‘Ayanamsha’ 23°57'02" from the ‘Sayana’ value 
of 487°40'35". The ‘Nirayana’ Ascendant, therefore, shall be 
(487°40'35" — 23"57'02") = 3°13°53'33". This value is close to the 
value worked out by the modern method, using table of 
Ascendants. 


Longitude of Planets: After having worked out the 
Ascendant. the last ritual remains to fix the position of planets. 
The method given in ‘Maha Narada Purana’ is quite complicated. 
However, placement of planets in the horoscope with the help 
of ‘Panchanga’ is very simple. We have already discussed the 
two horoscopes, mentioned at the bottom of the page 96, 
corresponding to the planetary position and their daily motion 
on the 26" January and 2nd February 2007 at 5:30 AM. This is 
very useful for working out the ‘Nirayana’ longitude of all 
planets. We shall work out the longitude of sun at the time of 
epoch. We have already calculated the position of sun at the 
time of sun-rise on 26.01.07. In the similar fashion, the longitude 
can be worked out at ‘Isiitakala’. 

Motion from 5:30 to 17:58:00 of 26.01.07 for 12:28 (12.47hrs.) 
= (12.47 x 60°59") /24 = 0°31'41" 

The total motion of sun from 5:30AM on 26.01.07 to 5:58PM 
on 26.01.07 is = 0°31'41". Thus, the ‘Nirayana’ longitude of sun 
on 26th January 2007 at 5:58 PM is 9°11°40'51"+0°31'41" = 


Casting Horoscope by Traditional Method 135 


9°12°12'32". For all other planets, except for the moon, same 
steps can be followed to work out their ‘Nirayana’ longitude. 

For the longitude of moon, we can use two routes. The first 
one could be through page 77, where the daily motion of the 
moon has been mentioned under the column ‘Chandra Sanchara’‘, 
It would be noticed from there that the moon enters ‘Mesha’ 
(Aries) on 25.01.07 at 8:42 hrs. It further enters in to ‘Brishava‘ 
(Taurus) on 27.01.07 at 12.09 hrs. Thus the moon remained in 
‘Aries’ between 8:42 hrs of 25.01.07 and 12:09 hrs. of 27.01.07 i.e. 
for 51%" 27™5 or 3,087 minutes. This is the time required to 
traverse 30° of ‘Aries’. The time of epoch is 17:58 hrs. of 26.01.07. 
Therefore, the moon was in Areis only. The time elapsed was 
33" 16™" or 1,996 min. Therefore, the motion of the moon in 
1996 minutes shall be worked out as 30° x 1996/3087 = 19°23'51". 
Thus, the ‘Nirayana’ longitude of moon at the time of epoch 
shall be 0°19°23'51". 

The other method of working out the longitude of moon is 
also ‘Panchanga’ based. The details are to be taken from the 
Table for motion’s entrance in to various ‘Charana’ of 
Constellations, given between pages 204 to 207. It would be 
noticed on page 207 that on 26.01.07, the moon enters into the 
second and the third ‘Charana’ of ‘Bharitti’ Constellation at 13:09 
and 18:52 hrs. respectively. Since the time of epoch lies between 
these two values, the moon was in ‘Bharini’ second ‘Charana’ 
(‘Aries’) at the time of epoch. The moon took (18:52-13:09) = 
5:43 hrs. or 343 minutes to traverse one ‘Charana’ (3°20' = 200’). 
Therefore in (17:58 - 13:09) = 4¢* 49™" = 289 minutes, it would 
traverse 200x289/343 = 168.51 = 2°48'31". Thus, the longitude 
of moon shall be 0°13°20' (Ashwini) + 3°20° (1st Charanana of 
Bhariti) + 2°48'31" = 0°19°28'31". Here, the value is 5' more than 
the other one. However, in this method, one works out 
simultaneously the constellation and the ‘Charana’ also. Further, 
since here closer time interval is taken in to consideration for 
calculations, the worked out values are more accurate. 


CHAPTER 18 


Astro-Meteorology 


1. INTRODUCTION 


Meteorology is the study of weather and climate. Weather is 
defined as the atomospheric conditions prevailing at a place and 
time, a combination produced by heat or cold, clearness or 
cloudiness, dryness or moisture, wind or calm, high or low 
pressure and electrical state of local air and sky. Meteorology is 
the study of the motions and phenomenon of atmosphere, 
especially for weather forecasting. 

Climate is a long term regime of atmospheric variables i.e. a 
yearly cycle of temperature and precipitation. Latitude will 
influence climate, determining whether a region is basically hot 
(nearer the Equator) or cold, and whether it has pronounced 
seasonal changes. Climate is also influenced by the prevailing 
winds and ocean currents, by altitude, and by the nature of the 
terrain. Although there are exceptions and extremes, there is 
enough similarity between climates of different regions to group 
them together and classify them as ‘climate zones. Types of 
climates that are widely dispersed across the Earth’s surface are 
polar, sub arctic, cool temperature, warm temperature, arid, 
tropical and high altitude. 


2. CLIMATE IN MANKIND’S HISTORY 


Ancient Indian treatises contain descriptions of weather and 
climate of those bygone days. The Rigveda provides us glimpses 
of the climate of northwest India. Raniayana and Mahabharata 
contain several descriptions of weather. The rainfall figures of 


Astro-Metearalogy 137 


various geographical reas for agricultural purposes are 
mentioned in the Arthashastra, written in the third century B.C. 
Kalidasa presents a picture of the transformation of the land due 
to the effect of the different seasons in his Rithusamhara and 
portrays the onset of the southwest monsoon in his Meghdoota. 
Several historical accounts and travelogues of Indian writers and 
foreign visitors contain a wealth of weather information. 
Varahamihira in 6" cennury A.D. wrote a comprehensive treatise 
by the name Brihata Samhita on weather. 

Local observations and inferences drawn there from were 
the first conscious and concrete attempts to understand nature. 
Folklore, farmers’ sayings etc are all products of observations 
and experience of observent men. 

The mythology and epics of every civilisation have presiding 
Deities for most natural phenomena. In our mythology Indra is 
the lord of thunderbolt, Vartina of water, Parjanya of clouds, Marut 
of storms, Vayu of winds, Agni of fire and Savita of Sun. The 
Egyptians, Greeks, Romans, Mayans etc. had their own Gods of 
the Elements. Examples are: Aurora and Eos of Dawn, Aeolus, 
Auster, Notus, and Boreas of winds, Iris of rainbow, Jupiter of 
thunderbolt, Neptune and Poseidon of the oceans as well as 
Huracan of storms. In the early days man propitiated the Gods 
by prayer and supplication through hymns and Yagnas for timely 
rains for his crops and to ward off death and devastation by 
storms and floods, and in war, even to unleash the fury of the 
Elements on his enemies. Our epics mention weapons such as 
varunastra (rain), agneyastra (fire) and vajrayudha (thunderbolt). 
Today man is trying not only to understand but also to alter and 
even control the weather. 

References to rainfall figures found in Kautilya’s Arathasastra 
show that rainfall measurements were made in ancient India, 
nearly three centuries before Christ. It is believed that there was 
a weathercock installed at the top of the Tower of Winds at 
Athens (circa 35 B.C.). Meteorological instruments in the modern 
sense came very much later. Though Galileo constructed a 
temperature measuring device in 1607, the first mercury 
thermometer was made by Fahrenheit in 1714. The mercury 
barometer was invented in 1643 by Evangelista Torricelli, a pupil 


138 Introduction to Astrology 


of Galileo. These instruments paved the way for the regular 
measurement of important meteorological parameters. 

In modern times temperature is measured by thermometer. 
It is generally a maximum & minimum thermometer. Barometer 
is used to measure pressure. The winds go from high-pressure 
areas to low-pressure areas. A fall in the “bar”, the unit of 
measuring pressure, indicates additional flow of wind. A big 
fall would automatically indicate the inflow of wind at high 
speed, which is a gale, hurricane or a tornado. 

Humidity is measured by a hygrometer. This is an essential 
ingredient of climate. Hot and humid climate is worse that hot 
and dry climate. 

Wind direction and speed are measured by wind vanes and 
anemometers respectively. It is the winds that move the climate 
around the globe. It is in nutshell the basic and very broad 
introduction to climate. 

In the modern sense of the term, the first meteorological 
observatory of Inclia was started in 1793 by the British East India 
Company at Madras, though famous astronomical observations 
such as the Jantar Mantar of Jaipur, Delhi etc. existed much earlier. 


3. INDIAN CLIMATE 


India is a land of contrasts, of relief and climate. India is a 
peninsular extension of the great Eurasian Jandmass. North- 
South the land stretches 3,200 km from latitude 37°6’ to 08°4’ 
North and 3,000 km West-East between longitudes 68°7’ and 97°2' 
East. 

Climatologically India covers tropical, subtropical and 
temperate regimes. The Inner Himalayas present sub polar 
conditions in winter due to the altitude effect. Southern peninsula 
comes under direct maritime influence. No major ocean current 
affects the climate of the subcontinent. 

Meteorologically, there are wide contrasts. Snow storms and 
blizzards rage over the Western Himalayas in winter. Glaciers 
and an odd avalanche are familiar sights in the Great Himalayas. 
Sand storms and dust storms are a common feature of western 
Rajasthan in summer. Sand dunes and shifting sand are 


Astra-Meteorology 139 


ubiquitous in the Rajasthan desert. Minimum temperatures go 
down to minus 45°C in Kashmir, while the maximum 
temperatures in Rajasthan soar up to plus 50°c. The mean annual 
rainfall is as high as 1,000 cm over the Khasi hills and as low as 
10 cm in western Rajasthan. Devastating floods in one part co- 
existing with parching drought in some other part of the 
subcontinent are not unusual. A complete reversal of the pressure 
and Wind systems takes place in the course of the year between 
the summer southwest monsoon and the winter northeast 
monsoon. 

Traditionally the year in India has been conceived as a 
progression of six rithus or seasons. The rithus have been 
described in terms of the changing moods of nature. The seasons 
are as follows: 


(a) Varsha (Wet Season) - June to September (Southwest 
monsoon) 

(b) Sharada (Cool Season) — October, November (Retreating 
monsoon) 

(c) Shishira (Cold Season) - December to February 

(d) Greeshma (Hot Season) ~ March to May 


Hemanta is the early part of winter and vasanta is the first 
part of summer, just after winter. 

Deviations do occur in individual years when a particular 
season may commence too early or too late compared to the usual 
date or even month. Once ina while the seasons march in perfect 
rhythm with text book precision, but this is an exception. 

The demarcation between any two rithus is not always sharp 
and one may imperceptibly merge in the other as a in the case of 
hemanta and shishira. 

The Astro-Meteorology discussed in this chapter pertains 
more to the Wet season of India i.e. the Monsoon. Hence, it would 
be prudent to understand the mechanics of the occurrence of 
monsoon. Monsoon is the most important season for our country 
because the success of the agricultural sector and subsequent 
economic growth is directly related to timely and normal/ 
abundant rainfall. 


140 Introduction to Astrology 
4.0 WET SEASON IN INDIA (VARSHA) 


From the poorest farmer to the meteorologist in India, the onset 
of monsoon and quantum of rain are the most important climatic 
phenomenon of the year. To understand the occurrence of 
monsoon, the hydrologic cycle needs to be understood. 


4.1 Hydrological Cycle 


The ‘hydrologic or water cycle’ is the circulation of water from 
the oceans through the atmosphere back to the oceans or ta the 
land and thence to the oceans by overland or subterranean routes. 
The hydrologic cycle is an intricate combination of evaporation, 
transpiration, air flow, precipitation, run off and ground water 
movements including infiltration stream flow and subsoil water 
se Ca as seen in eer 1. 


, ‘ 7 pip i OD 
oe c 


een 4 
(a o TRANS SR TION : 


of BS 
TET 
Fig. 1 Hydrological Cycle 


Evaporation 


Evaporation is the process by which tiquid water or ice is 
converted to water varpour. The atmosphere gets water vapour 
through evaporation from water bodies (oceans, lakes, rivers or 
any other water body), falling rain and moist ground surface. 
Another way water vapour enters the air is through evapo- 
transpiration i.e. the evaporation from the leaves or plants. 


Condensations 


When the concentration of water vapour in the atmosphere 
exceeds the saturation limit, the excess water vapour changes 


Astro-Meteorology 141 


into the liquid or solid phase in a variety of forms e.g. dew, frost, 
mist, fog or cloud. This process requires the aid of some surface. 
This is easily available on the ground. In the free atmosphere, 
suitable surfaces are not readily available. 

In the atmosphere there are millions of minute particles of 
various substances which remain suspended. Some of these 
particles are hygroscopic i.e. they absorb moisture. Water vapour 
initially condenses on hygroscopic particles and change into 
droplets of liquid water. The particles are therefore called 
‘condensation nuclei’. 


Clouds 


A cloud is a visible aggregate of minute particles of water or ice 
or of both in the free air. The appearance of a cloud is determined 
by the nature, number, size and distribution in space of its 
constituent particles. The intensity and colour of the light falling 
on the cloud, as also the relative positions of the observer and 
the source of light affect its appearance. Clouds are in a process 
of continuous evolution and therefore display an infinite variety 
of forms as seen in Fig 2. 


4.2 Southwest Monsoon 


The wet season or Varsha is from June to September when the 
southwest summer monsoon holds sway over the entire Indian 
subcontinent. The country outside the Himalayan belt and the 
southeast peninsula receives nearly 75% of its annual rainfall 
with the largest number of rainy days during this period and 
hence the name ‘wet season’. The southwest monsoon sets in 
over the extreme southwestern tip of the peninsula by end May 
or early June and advances inland in stages, reaching 
narthwestern India by mid-July. It starts withdrawing from there 
by early September and gradually recedes southwards till it 
leaves the extreme southeast peninsula by the middle of 
December. However, by October it is out of the major portion of 
the country and hence the period June to September is considered 
to be the southwest monsoon period, taking the country as a 
whole. This period is often referred to simply as ‘monsoon’, since 
most people associate rainfall with monsoon and since this is 


142 Introduction to Astrology 


<E ZS 
2 ))) (LAL 
GOLA GLE GEE 
J Lf LRG MG ge” 
3 aceeceeny? yao axes) 
= Sa 5 
WP YALII ET Meta tae te 
$(Ce)CIRROCUMYLUS, he ICE CRYSTALS 
— 6k Sete £9 
oad 3 
ws\itTosraatis ep wei OO as 


Fig. 2 Cloud Types and Heights 


the main rainy season for most parts of the country. Averaged 
over the plains of India, the rainfall of this period is 925 mm 
whereas in the rest of the 8 months put together, the rainfall is 
only 145 mm. 


Onset 


It is important to know in advance the date of the onset of rains, 
which in this context means the onset of the southwest monsoon. 
The various synoptic features which precede, accompany ot 
fatlow the onset and establishment of the summer monsvon have 
been assiduously studied by several workers for long. No unique 
criterion has yet been evolved to fix the monsoon onset with 
precision and confidence. Weather satellite imagery has been 


Astro-Meteorelogy 143 


used to identify situations which indicate the onset. Large cloud 
ensembles or cloud clusters have been found to be a characteristic 
feature of the southwest monsoon regime. 

The synoptic practice has been for fix the date of onset of the 
summer monsoon as the date when strong southwesterly winds 
set in with high dew point, accompained by moderate to heavy 
rain. 


Strength of the Monsoon 


The criterion employed for describing the strength of the 
monsoon is the speed of the prevailing surface winds over the 
seas and rainfall amount over land areas. The criteria to denote 


the activity’ are: 
speed in kt) Rainfall amount) 
upto 12 
% to 4 times the normal. 


Strong 23 to 32 


Monsoon activity 


Weak 


Moderate 


¥% to 4 times the normal; 

widespread rainfall, at least 5 
cm along west coast and 3.cm 
elsewhere 


Vigorous 33 and above More than 4 times the normal; 
widespread rainfall, atleast 8 
cm along west coast and 5 cm 


elsewhere 


Progress of the Monsoon 


It is important to understand that the progress of the monsoon 
is neither steady nor smooth once it has set in over Kerala. The 
pattern of further advance varies from year to year. In some years 
it advances right upto the north west of the country in one or 
two stages, whereas in some others there may be several spurts 
before it completes the onset. Usually, after the first advance, 
there is a weakening and the Monsoon remains stationary for 
some days or even recedes. A fresh surge is needed for the 
subsequent advance. The dates of onset of the different region 


144 Introduction to Astrology 


of the country can show wide variations, as can be seen from 
some examples below: 


nae sea 
[Region | Normal_|_Eatiest_| Most delayed 
14 June 


Break monsoon Conditions 


During the prevalence of the southwest monsoon, particularly 
in July and August, there are periods of a week or more when 
clouding decreases and rainfall practically ceases over the 
country outside the Himalayan belt and southeast peninsula. 
This is referred to as ‘break monsoon condition’. Heavy rainfall 
occurs over the sub-Himalayan regions and the southern slopes 
of the Himalayas, leading to high floods in the rivers with 
catchment areas thre. Thus though there is no rain over the plains, 
all the major northern and eastern Indian rivers rise and floods 
ensue. 


Precipitation 


The outstanding feature of the rainfall distribution is orographic 
control. Heaviest rainfall occurs on the western coastal uplands 
on the wind ward slopes of the Western Ghats, particularly 
between latitude 10° and 20° N, the southern slopes of the Khasi 
Jaintia hills and the southern slopes of Eastern Himalayas. The 
variations are striking. Over the Western Ghats, rainfall tapers 
off to 40 cm on the leeward side from 500 cm, within a distance 
of nearly 80 km. The orographic effect is discernible even in the 
comparatively smaller Aravalli ranges, where Mt. Abu gets a 


Astro-Meteorology 145 


rainfall of 169 cm while the surrounding plains have only 60 to 
80 cm. From Bengal there is a progressive decrease of rainfall 
westwards. Ladhakh is another rain-shadow region. 
Interestingly, statistical analysis lends credence to the popular 
belief that there is an increase of rainfal] on new moon and 
full moon days. 

The unpredictability of the rainfall pattern during 
Monsoon will become clearer and predictable with the aid of 
astrology as discussed in the subsequent paragraphs. 


5.0 ASTROLOGY FOR MONSOON AND 
RAINFALL FORECASTS 


In astrology the meteorological forecast, primarily pertaining to 
rains, is done in the following manner. 


a) Long Range forecast: It is done by drawing the chart at 
the time of “Ardra Pravesh” and will be dealt in detail in 
the subsequent paragraphs. 

b) Medium Range forecast: The forecast is based on 
observations made 195 days (a little over 6 % months) in 
advance. Thus, for the monsoon rains (June — Sept.) the 
observations of cloud formation, wind directions and the 
rainfall will be made in Nov/Dec—Mar/Apr. These 
observations will provide the forecast of the rains in the 
Monsoon period. 

c) Short range forecast: This is done by using Roltini Yoga; 
Moon’s entry in Rohini Nakshatra in Ashadha Krishna Paksha 
(within 10-12 days + of Ardra Pravesha) and Sapta Nadi 
Chakra. The details of these will be discussed in subsequent 
paragraphs. We also have a collection of miscellaneous 
planetary configurations, Mandalas, Duars and Chakras, 
which would also be examined and explained. 


5.1 LONG RANGE FORECAST — ARDRA PRAVESH 


Long-range predictions are made on the basis of Sun’s entry into 
Ardra Nakshatra (Gemini Rasi at 6° 40°). This takes place around 
21" June every year. 


Varaha Mihira’s Brihada Samhita Chapter XXVIII, Sloka 20 


146 Introduction to Astrology 


says there will be rains generally when planets set and rise, get 
conjunct with moon, on entering a Mandala, end of fortnight; 
and on a regular basis on Sun entering Ardra. Mercury-Venus, 
Mercury-Jupiter, Venus-Jupiter conjunctions also spell rain. The 
Sun’s entry into Ardra during the 3 years heralding the 21st 
century are given below: 


June 22" 02-42 hrs (June 21" 26-42), 2001 

June 21* 20-32 hrs, 2000 

June 22™ 14-13 hrs, 1999 

When Sun enters Ardra the rainy season is born. The 
ascendant determines the rain's potential} of the year. The other 
determinants of rain are: 

(a) The water content of the signs 
The water content of the 12 signs is: 


100% - Cancer, Capricorn, Pisces 
50% - ‘Taurus, Sagittarius, Aquarius 
25% - Aries, Libra, Scorpio 

0% - Gemini, Leo, Virgo 


(b) The rain inducing potential of planets and their PAC 
connections. 


The planets, their nature and their rain inducing traits are:- 


Sun Agni Dry & hot, Helps storms and 
- hurricanes; retards rains. 
Mars Agni Fiery Stormy and droughty; 
retards rains. ° 
Mercury Prithvi Watery with watery planets & 
dry with dry planets 


Moderates extreme conditions. 
Watery (Brix 


28 rains) 
Dry & cold 


Astro-Meteorology 147 


Notes:- Sun and Mars obstruct rains, help cause tornadoes, 
and hurricanes. Saturn induces cold wintry conditions, Mercury 
is a helper, Moon and Venus are the rain inducers. 


(c) The geographic location of a particular area in the Ardra 
pravesha chart. 


Astudy of the Ardra Pravesha chart lays out the general trends 
for the year. 


Why Ardra ? 


Ardra means wet. Ardra, commonly used in Hindi, also stands 
for eyes becoming watery with emotion. Rains in India are from 
Ardra to Swati. According to the legend, these are female 
constellations and being unable to bear the brilliance of Sun, cry 
& weep. The tears of these are the rains. 


5.1.1 Ardra Pravesha for 2001 


In the year 2001, Sun entered Ardra on June 22 at 02-42 hrs 
(given in Lahiri’s Ephemeris as 21" June 2642 hrs). The planetary 
positions and the horoscope of that moment were drawn for 
Delhi is as under: 


The Ascendant is East, 7" house is West, 10'"* House is South and 
the 4" house is North. 


Applied to India, it would be like the diagram shown in Dia- 
gram 1. 


148 Introduction to Astrology 


DIRECTION OF INDIA FOR 
ASTROLOGICAL PURPOSES 


NE 


Arunacnal 


Pradesh 


SE 


Indian States on Horoscope for Mundane Purposes 


NE E SE 


Part of Nepal, Suoth West Bengal, 
Sikkim, Bhutan, Orissa Andhra 
‘Arnnunchal Pradesh, Pondicherry 
Pradesh, Tibet 
Bihar, Jbarkand, West 
: Bengal, Nangladesh, 
ee Sta Meyhatay, Avsani, South West 
Jeinsectal Nagaland, Manipur, Bengal, Orissa, 
Part of Mizoram, Andbra Pradesh, 
Pradesh, Tihet Pi econ 
Central Asia, 
Jammu and i ; 
Kashmir, Punjab, Srilanka, Tani! Nadu, 
Haryana Parts of Konkan, Kerala, Partly 
N North U.P, Karnataka, Nasik, S 


Hinvachal Kancht 
Pradesh, Delhi, 
Uttaranchal 


Goa, 
North Pakistan, West Maharashtra, Katnakata, 


Afghanistan, Gujrat, Baluchistan, Parts Partly South 
North part of ofRajasthan, Sindh West 
Kashmir Mahararashtra 
Goa, 
North Pakistan, Rarnakata, 
Afghanistan, Partly South 
Narth part of West 
Kashonir Mabararashira 


NW a 


Astro-Meteorology 149 


Now examine the Ardra pravesha horoscope. Aries has risen 
in the Ascendant. Aries has 25% water content. Venus is in it. 
Lagna lord Mars is in Scorpio, a 100% water content sign, so the 
rain potential goes up. Venus is watery planet, and it aspects 
Libra, it’s own house. Libra, like Aries, is 25% water content sign. 
Venus fully watery, influencing 25% watery signs is to produce 
beneficial, average rainfall in the East and West of the country. 
Rains in the West are also likely to be helped by the placement 
of Mars, the Lagna lord in his own sign. 

The sign in the South, the 10" house, is Capricorn, a 
100% water content rashi and its lord is placed in Taurus, a 
50% water content sign, implying increased water potential. 
Saturn is cold and windy - storms and gales are likely in the 
South. 

North has 5 planets in the North/ North-East directions. The 
sign is Cancer, a 100% water content rashi and its lord is in 
Gemini, a zero water content rashi, with Jupiter & Sun. Saturn 
& Mercury are in Taurus, a 50% water content sign. Venus, the 
lord of Taurus is in Aries. Saturn represents cold and Mercury is 
an impressionable planet. Hence, cold conditions in rainy season 
of average rains in the areas of Haryana, Punjab, Himachal 
Pradesh & Kashmir. 

The northern parts of the country may get about normal 
rainfall with excess in the plains. Good beneficial rains in the 
eastern and western portions. Thunder, strong winds and cooler 
climate in North-Northeast and South-Southwest directions. 
Karnataka, Goa, Western ghats and the West coast (Mangalore 
area) and Therai, Northeast of Uttaranchal and Northwest of 
Bihar excess rains. Rest of India may get normal rains. 

Ardra Pravesha provides general trends based on the location 
of watery signs — the directions in which 100% water content 
signs are, get good rains generally. The planets bring in their 
characteristics of cold and wind by Saturn, hot & violent winds 
and storms by Mars, and heat by Sun. The planets also indicate 
the geographical areas, which would be influenced by them 
during the year. 

The predictions made before Ardra Pravesha came to be 
true. 


150 Introduction to Astrology 
5.1.2 Ardra Pravesh 2006 


At the time of updating this book, we have made the Ardra 
Pravesh Chart for the year 2006, which was on 22™ June 2006 at 
09:22 hrs Delhi. The Ardra Pravesha 2006 chart is given below. 


Ardra Pravesh 2006 


Forecast of 2006 rainfall through Ardra Pravesh Chart 


In this Ardra Pravesh Chart, Lagna rising with Cancer rashi 
which has 100% water content. It has 3 planets i.e. Saturn, 
Mercury and Mars. Saturn and Mars are within 2 degrees of one 
another. Mars is the Yog Karak of this chart. By nature Mars and 
Saturn are the planets which control Prachand and Dahan Nadi’s 


Astro-Meteorology 151 


of Sapt Nadi Chakra. Weather will take their signification and 
would thus lead to excess in rains, excess in heat, excess in 
disturbances. The news on 9" June 2006 was “Fog in the hot 
month of June in North India”. It is the gift of Saturn and Mars 
closing up in Cancer, Meerut was fogged out. 

We have had in end of October 2006 the strange sight of 
Haridwar being white washed by inscecent hail strom - extreme 
cold is Saturn's gift. 

Jupiter in Kendra in Libra is aspected by Mars (the 10" Lord) 
and the Moon (the Lagna Lord from the 10" House). 10'" House 
of a Horoscope denotes South. Moon is a watery planet and Aries 
has 25% water content. Aspect of Jupiter and Saturn on 10" and 
10" lord being placed in a sign which has 100% water content 
should provide average or higher than average rainfall in 
southern states during this monsoon. The north of the country 
(4" house) Jupiter is placed, which will control the weather and 
this part will be devoid of extremes. Jupiter is retrograde and a 
planet in this awastha gives rise to erratic behaviour. Mars is ahead 
of the Sun. The conjunction is on 23“ october. We have a Bhaddri 
folk saying that “Aage Mangal Pichey Bhan, Varsha hove os 
saman”. So rains are likely to dry up around 23" september — 
one month before the actual degree conjunction. The rain 
followed similar pattern in South. 

The 9" lord of the Ardra pravesh chart rises in the the 
Navamsha. Indian agriculture depends heavily on the quantam 
and quality of monsoon. 9" House rashi rising in the Navamsha 
lagna promises timely rains. The Navamsha lagna lord, Jupiter 
is in the 12" House, which indicates national expenditure related 
to agriculture. The country may give a higher procurement price. 
The agricultural inputs may need higher subsidy. Jupiter’s 
retrograde motion till July 2006 is likely to make monsoon erratic. 
The monsoon was truly erratic. 

Sun and Mars in the Navamsha are in the 10 House. The 
rashi is Sagitarius. 10 House traditionally dictates south. 
Sagitarius, in the natal chart, has risen in the sixth house. 
Monsoon is likely to be accompained by windy and tornado like 
conditions (Pawan and Prachand). [This monsoon is likely to 
provide cover to the activities of insurgents who are likely to 


152 Introduction to Astrology 


move from north western part of the country towards southern 
part of India threatening the Government (Sun) and the Security 
Forces (Mars). This is confirmed by the Rahu’s aspect on 10" 
house in Navamsha from 6" House. This also means that 
Government and Armed forces will have difficult time this 
monsoon in these parts of the country.] 

The Western portion of the country carries no planets (5-8"" 
house). The area has the aspect on its extremities - Venus aspecs 
Scorpio and Jupiter aspects Aquarius. Therefore, the area is not 
totally arid. Rains in the Western portion of India are likely to be 
less than normal. 

Special Note for Mumbai and Goa: Saturn is the 7" Lord, 
which is in Cancer (100% water content rashi). It is aspecting its 
own house. It is also the 8" Lord. Therefore, whatever goodies it 
give, will be with a hefty price. Early rains has already caught 
the BMC on the wrong foot. (June 06) 


5.2 THE MEDIUM RANGE FORECAST - 
THE 195 DAY STORY 


The observations for the medium range prediction commence 
in the month of Margasheersh at the time when the Moon enters 
Parva Ashadha nakshatra in the Shukla paksha. The date is 
somewhere around the last week of November or the first\ 
second week of December. Moon’s entry in the constellations in 
which clouds were observed and water detected during the 
observation period Nov./Dec. to Mar./April will yield rain on 
being visited by the Moon in June/Sept period. The gap is 
generally 195 days. 

The Purva Ashadha nakshatra’s lord is “Aap” Aap is water, 
or ‘Ambu’ yet another name for water. It is, therefore quite logical 
to believe that this constellation would, in some way, contribute 
to the rains. The other constellations that have propensity to 
stimulate the clouds into yielding the water stored in them are 
Purva Bhadrapad, Uttara Bhadrapad, Rohini and Uttara Ashada. 
These 5 constellations are “Bahutoyad”( givers of plenty of 
water). 

Satabhisha, Aslesha, Ardra, Swati and Magha are also good 
and favourable nakshatras that assist the clouds in storing water 


Astro-Meteoralagy 153 


and releasing it as rains, 195 days later. The cloudy or rainy 
conditions observed during the stay of Moon in these 10 con- 
stellations are generally very promising for rains 195 days later. 

Moon’‘s entry in the constellations in which clouds were 
observed and water detected during the observation period 
Nov. / April will yield rain on being visited by the Moon in June/ 
October period. The period of the observation and its consequent 
result, 195 days later are as shown below:- 


Observation (a) 


Paushya Krishna paksha 


Resultant rains (b) 


Shravan Shukla paksha 
Bhadrapad Shukla paksha 
Bhadrapad Krishna paksha 


Ashwina Shukla paksha 
Ashwina Krishna paksha 
Chaitra Krishna paksha Kartika Shukla paksha 


What is observed in (a) is repeated in (b). Rains observed in 
the period (a) are repeated during the period shown in (b). 
Clouds pregnant with rains observed in the months at (a) rain 
for the duration as indicated below in the period shown at (b):- 


A B 
Margasheersha 8 days 
Pausha 6 days 
Magha 16 days 
Phalguna 24 days 
Chaitra 20 days 


The sages have recommended that observations be done ata 
distance of every 10 yoganas. (one yojana is equal to nearly 14 
kms). 


5.3 SHORT RANGE FORECAST- ROHINI YOG 


Moon'’s entry into Rohini nakshatra in Ashadh Krishna Paksh is 
called Rohini Yog. In the year 2002 it was on 07 July. It was on 


154 Introduction to Astrology 


10" July at 26-17 hrs in 1999 and on 30" July at 12-17 hrs in 2000. 
In 2006 moon entered Rohini on 23% June at 15:19 hrs. This is a 
defining day. Observations made on this one single day provide 
the data for forecasting weather for next four months. This is a 
mute testimony to the genius of our Sages and Rishis. 

On the day of the entry of Moon in Rohini in Ashadh month, 
the direction of wind, changes in the directions and speed of 
wind are observed as they are the determinants to predict the 
time and amount of rainfall during the next four months. The 
clouds, their shape and colour and their water bearing content 
is noted. The observations are restricted to the day light hours. 
The day is divided into 4 parts each of approximately 3 hours 
duration. Each part is called a “Prahara”. Observations of the 
First “Pahar” predict the results of Shravana month. The second 
3 hour period’s observations give the likely weather of 
Bhadrapad month. The third “Prahara” relates to Ashvin month. 
The observations in the last 3 hours prior to the sunset relate to 
Kartik month. If the wind is sweet smelling and is of moderate 
strength and there are good looking clouds, it augurs well for 
rain. Wind blowing from East and West causes good rains. Wind 
blowing from South causes obstruction to the rains. Wind from 
southeast is bad. Winds from North & Northeast are also good. 
All directions, except South & Southeast are considered good. 
Rohini Yog observations like the others are restricted to the local 
area (10 yojanas). 

On this very special day, seeds are sown in suitably 
“Abhimantrit” earthen vessels. Their time of sprouting, the size, 
colour and vibrancy of the seedlings determines the quality and 
the quantity of the crop pertaining to that seed and that area. 

Also noteworthy are the remarks of Shri. Chidambara Iyer 
that are contained in the Brihad Samhita translation by Shri. M. 
Ramakrishna Bhat “that the weather indications of one single 
day in a year should form the subject of so much calculation 
with the Hindus in determining the future agricultural prospects 
of the land, while to the inexperienced eye of a western man of 
science, the day appears as indifferent or otherwise as any other 
day of the year argues that modern science is still far behind in 
her investigations of the laws of nature.” 


Astro-Meteorology 155 
5.4 OTHER CONCEPTS IN ASTRO-METEOROLOGY 
5.4.1 Mandalas 
Solar ingress into a Sign is called “Sankranti”. Moon’s position 
ina particular constellation (Nakshatra) during “Sankranti” sets 
the tone for that month. Note the Mandala, the Moonis in at the 


solaringress time. The name of the Mandala decides the weather. 
The Mandalas are: 


MANDAL | NAKSHATRA 


AGNI Bharani, Krittika, Pushya, Magha, Purva Phalguni, 
Purva Bhadra & Visakha 


VAYU Ashwini, Mrigashira, Punarvasu, Uttara Phalguni, 
Hasta, Chitra & Swati 


VARUNA Ardra, Astesha, Moola, Purva Ashadha, 
Satabhisha, Uttara Bhadra & Revati 


MAHENDRA| Rohin1, Anuradha, Jyeshta, Uttara Ashdha, Abhijit, 
Shravan & Dhanista 


Varun & Mahendara Mandalas promote rain. Agni Mandala 
stops it, Vayu makes it stormy, windy with gales. 


5.4.2 Meghduar 


At Sankranti the Moon’s placement in a specified “nakshatra” 
would cause it to be in a Megh duar as under:- 


Meghduar: Bharani, Krittika, Rohini, Mrigashira, Ardra, 
Punarvasu, Pushyami & Aslesha 

Vayuduar: Magha, Purva Phalguni, Uttara Phalguni, 
Hasta & Chitra 

Dharmaduar: Swati, Visakha, Anuradha 

Retduar: Jyesta, Moola, Purva Ashadha, Uttar 

Ashadha, Abhijit, Shravan 

Hemduar: Dhanista, Shatabhisha, Purva Bhadra, Utrara 


Bhadra, Revati, Aslesha 


Meghduar foretells good and beneficent rains. 
Vayuduar there are good clouds but the rains are elusive. 


156 Introduction to Astrology 


Dhiarmaduar Very good for plentiful rains. 
Retduar Totally deceptive clouds rain is elusive. 
Hemduar Beneficent and bountiful rains. 


5.4.3 Planets and Rains 


Some notable occurrences and their effect on the rains:- 


1. Mars staying in Swati, Purva Ashadha, Uttara Ashada, Ardra, 
Rohini, Uttara Phalguni stops all rain. 
2. Jupiter ahead of Sun & Venus causes extremes cold. 
3. Moon in Cancer, Capricorn and Pisces induces good rain. 
4. Mars, Mercury, Saturn ahead of Venus cause winds, no rains. 
5. Moon-Venus conjunction or opposition causes rains. 
6. Moon in 5, 7, 9 from Saturn causes rain. 
7. Mars ahead of the Sun obstructs rains. 
8. Change of signs by planets cause rain. 
9. Retrogression of planets causes rain. 
10. Setting & rising of planets (other than Sun and Moon) cause 
rains. 


5.5.4 SAPTA NADI CHAKRA 


This is the “Chakra” that indicates daily rainfall. It is used if one 
wishes to find out whether it would rain on a particular day. It 
is the daily / weekly diary of the rain. This is used in rainy season 
with greater felicity. ; 

This is how it is prepared. ‘Sapta’ means seven and ‘Nadi’ is 
a channel. Prepare a chart of seven vertical columns as given 
below and name them as indicated. 


PRACHAND | PAWAN | DAHAN | SOUMAYA NEERA JALA AMRIT 
SATURN SUN MARS JUPITER VENUS MERCURY MOON 
FIERCE WINDY HOT __|FLUCTUATION| GOOD RAIN _| BETTER RAIN | BEST RAIN 
KRITIKA3 | ROHINI4 | MRIG 5 ARDRA6 | PUNARVASU7 | __PUSHYA8 | ASHLESHAY 

VISHAKA to | SWATLIS [CHITRAIS| HASTA13__]U PHALGUNI 12] PPHALGUNLI| MAGHA 10 

ANURADHA 17] JYESHTA 18| MOOLA 19] P_ ASHADA 20 | U.ASHADA21 | _ABHYIT 22 


BHARNI 2 ASHWINI 1} REVATI 28] U. BHAD- 27 | renanz6 | SATABHISA 25 {DHANISTA2 


1, Abhijit is included in the reckoning of constellations. It 
comes in as 22™ nakshatra placed between Uttara Ashadha 
and Shravan in the chart above. Its extent is 6° 40’ to 10° in 
Uttara Ashadha nakshatra. 


2. 


Astro-Metvorology 157 


Rains commence when Sun enters Ardra and cease when 
Sun leaves Swati. Both these nakshatras are Rahu’s 
nakshatras. Another interesting feature is that from Ardra 
(6) to Swati (15) are all female nakshatras. These soft, 
feminine constellations are unable to bear the heat of Sun. 
They cry and their tears are the rains. 16", 17" nakshatras 
are eunuchs and 18" to 5" are all male nakshatras. 


It is also noteworthy that Southwest monsoon causes 70% of 
rains in the country. Northeast monsoon causes the balance 30%, 
called winter rains generally in the southern areas of the country. 

The general principles that govern rains in the context of 
Sapta Nadi Chakra are: 


a) 
b) 


c) 


d) 
e) 
f) 


g) 


Planets’ transit into the constellations shown in the Nadis 
of the Chakra activates the respective nadis. 

The planetary ingress in Prachand would mean transit of 
any planet in the constellation Krittika (3), Visakha (16), 
Anuradha (17) or Bharani (2). The result would be 
cyclonic, violent stormy weather. This would be definite 
if two or more planets are simultaneously transiting in 
the same Nadi. 

The results of planetary ingress in the other constellations 
of a Nadi induces it to give results as under: 


PAWAN Winds, gales, storms 

DAHAN Hot, fiery weather 

SAUMYA Pleasant, cool & cloudy 

NEER Good rains 

JAL Beneficial, timely and light rains 
AMRIT The best rains. ~ 


Mars is the planet, that can single handedly induce a Nadi 
to give its results. All other planets need support. 
If there are 2 or 3 planets in a nadi, the rains will occur on 
the day the Moon joins this group. 
Mercury, Venus, Jupiter, Moon induce rains more 
copiously. 
Weather changes when: 

@ Amajor planet changes its sign (Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, 

Rahu) 


158 


Introduction to Astrology 


Whenever planets set or rise, retrograde or direct, 
weather is affected according tothe sign, nakshatra, 
planet and the position of Moon. 

Mercury in rainy season is capable of inducing rain 
single handedly when it changes signs, sets or rises or 
retrogrades/directs. 

If a planet were in its nadi, Moon’s entry in any of the 
four Nakshatras constituting that nadi would cause a 
weather change. 

If maximum number of planets (five) are in Neer nadi 
and Moon joins it, rains will last for 6 days. Same 
situation in Jal nadi will lead to 12 days rain and in 
Amrit nadi 24 days rain. 

Malefics (Sun, Saturn & Mars) cause clouds and do 
not permit rains. 

Moon, Mars, Jupiter in one nadi cause excess rains. 


Let us now examine 3 Rainy days. Firstly 11'* April 2001. 


The planetary position was: 


Sun 
Moon 
Mars 


Mercury 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Saturn 


Revati (Dahan) 

Anuradha (Prachand) 

Moola — (Dahan) Changed sign on 10" April 
at 18-15 hrs. 

Uttara Bhadra (Saumya) 

Rohini (Pavan) 

Uttara Bhadra (Saumya) 

Krittika (Prachand) 


1. Mars changes the sign 

2. Mercury & Venus in Uttara Bhadra — a water producing 
nakshatra and in Pisces, a 100% water sign. 

3. Gale & rains are indicated. 


26'* July 2005 (Maharashtra, Konkan had the heaviest record 
breaking rains) 


The planetary positions were: 


Sun 


Pushya (Cancer- 100% water) - Jala 


Astro-Meteorology 159 


Moon Uttara Bhadrapad(Pisces 100% water) 
(Soumya) 

Mars Ashwini (Aries 25% water) - Pawan 

Mercury Ashlesha (Cancer 100% water) - Amrit 

Jupiter Hasta (vigro 100% water) - Soumya 

Venus Magha (Leo 0% water) - Amrit 

Saturn Pushya (Cancer 100% water) - Jala 


1. Sun/Sat conjunction on 23rd July in Jala Nadi. 
2. Mercury retrograded on 23rd July and was Set (Asta) on 


25th July. 

14" September 2006 
Sun U. Phalguni (Leo 0% water) - Neera 
Moon Rohini (Taurus 50% water) - Pawan 
Mars U. Phalguni (Virgo 0% water) — Neera 
Mercury U. Phalguni (Virgo 0% water) - Neera 
Jupiter Vishaka (Scorpio 25% water) - Prachand 
Venus P. Phalguni (Leo 0% water) - Jala 
Saturn Ashlesha (Cancer 100% water) - Amrit 


5 Planets in Neera, Jala and Amrit Nadi's and 4 out of these 5 in 
0% water content rashi, which caused a short duration rain. 


5.4.5 IMMINENT RAINFALL 


Sun at sunrise is benign and is looked at by hordes of Sun 
worshippers. It is an excellent cure for eyes to look at the Sun at 
its rising time with naked eyes. However, if rain is due in a 
few hours, the rising Sun becomes so bright that one cannot 
look at it. “Durnireekshayo” this gem has come from Varaha 
Mihir in his Brihat Samhita. 1 can do no better than to quote it 
. verbatim. 


BRIHAT SAMHITA, Chapter XXVIII - Signs of imutediate 
rainfall 


Slok no. 3: If in the rainy season, the Sun, even when rising, 
cannot be looked at on account of his dazzling brilliance and 
appear like molten gold, or possess the pure luster of beryl, or if 


160 Introduction to Astrology 


he burns with intense heat at the Zenith of the sky, there will be 
rain on the very same day. 

Slok no. 4: Tasteless water, the sky with the color of cow’s 
eyes or crow’s eggs (white and blue), the quarters being 
uncontaminated, salt becoming moist, subdued wind, much 
tumbling of fishes ashore and the repeated croaking of frogs. 

Slok no, 5: Immediate rain is indicated by cats scratching the 
ground vehemently with their nails, accumulation of rust on 
iron or bronze vessels with smell of raw meat.or fish, and 
construction of bridges on the roads by children. 

Stok no. 6: Mountains looking like heaps of collyrium or their 
caves wrapt in vapour, and haloes round the Moon with the 
colour of cock’s eyes (deep red), are symptoms of rain. 

Slok no. 7: Ants shifting their eggs without any trouble, 
mating of snakes, climbing down the trees by snakes and cows’ 
leaping. 

Slok no. 8: If the chameleons perched on the tops of trees fix 
their gaze on the firmament, and cows (or bulls) look up towards 
the Sun, there will be rain ere long or in near future. (It is 
recognized by scientists that certain animals have uncanny 
powers of foreknowledge of coming events. Nowadays the 
police department employs dogs in tracking criminals). 

Slok no. 9: lf the domestic animals like cows are unwilling to 
go out of the house and shake their ears and hoofs, or if the dogs 
behave in the same manner, it should be declared that there 
would be rain soon. 

Slok no. 10: When dogs stand on the roofs of houses, or bark 
continuously looking up towards the sky, or when lightning 
appears in the north-east at day time, then the earth will be 
submerged in water. 

Slok no. 11: When the Moon appears with the red hue of the 
eyes of a parrot or pigeon or of honey, and when a second Moon 
shines in the sky, there will be immediate rain. 

Slok no. 12: If there be pearls of thunder at night and blood- 
red streaks of lightning standing erect like rods at day-time, and 
if there be a cool breeze blowing from the east, there would soon 
be rain. 

Stok no. 13: lf the sprouts of creepers are turned up towards 


Astro-Meteorology 161 


the sky, birds bathe in water or dust, and reptiles or worms are 
seated on the tips of grass, there will be an immediate fall of 
rain. 

Slok no. 14: lf the clouds at dawn or twilight possess the same 
colour as peacocks, parrots, blue-jays or Cataka birds, or have 
the luster of roses and red lotuses and resemble in shape wave, 
hills, crocodiles, tortoises, or fishes, and are piled up in many 
layers, they will pour down rain before long. 

Slok no. 15: If the clouds are as white as chunam or the Moon 
at the edges as dark ascollyrium, or the bees at the center, glossy, 
have many layers, dropping particles of water, and are cut up 
like the steps of a staircase, and being formed in the east, sail 
westward or vice versa, they will drench the earth for long with 
plentiful rain. 

Slok no. 16: If at the time of sunrise or sunset there be a 
rainbow, a cross bar of clouds, a mock Sun, a straight fragmentary 
rainbow, flashes of lightning, and haloes around the Sun and 
the Moon, it should be predicted that there will be plentiful rain 
in the near future. 


GHAGH AND BHADDARI 


India has a treasure trove of folk sayings. A traditional society 
has these “Paramparic” bits of wisdom contained in pithy and 
telling couplets. Ghagh and Bhaddari, a husband wife team, are 
remembered to this day for their witty, wise and superbly 
accurate couplets that predict nature’s future course. For rain 
forecasts rural India would any day line up behind these geniuses 
forsaking the totally unreliable Met Office’s forecast. The real 
taste of these sayings is in the local language. Translation in 
English makes them insipid. Sample a few of them. 


1. “Vayu chalegi uttara, maand piyenge kutra”: In rainy season 
should wind blow from the North it brings such beneficial 
rains that even the stray dogs get to eat rice. 

2. “Magh poos jo dakhina chale, to savan ke lachchan bhale”: 
Southerlies in winter months indicate a blessed rain filled 
July- August. 

3. “Dakkhini kullankini, magh poos sullakkhini’: Southerlies are 
harbingers of ill luck, except in Winter months (Jan-Feb). 


162 {ntroduction to Astrology 


4. “Uttar chamke bijuri, purab bahti vayu, Gagh kahye sun Bhaddri 
bargha bhitar laun.”: Ghagh asks Bhaddari that thete is 
lightning in the North and the wind is blowing from the 
East, I think rain is round the corner. Shall I bring the 
bullocks inside the house ? 

5. “Ue Agasta phule bau kaans, ab chodo barkha ki aas”: The 
star ”Agasta” has risen (this is a southern star which rises 
around 10" Sep). It’s connection with rains is well known. 
Even Goswami Tulsidas has written ” Udit agasta panth 
jala sokha” meaning Agasta has risen water wiil now be 
sucked dry. 

6. “Poos andheri saptami jo paani nahin dei, tau Ardra barse sahi 
jala thala ek karei”: Poos represents December. If there is no 
rain on the Krishna Paksha Saptami then there would be 
plenty of rains during the end of ensuing June. This also 
indicates the acceptance of the 195 days rule based on local 
knowledge and reliable replicity. 

7 “Aage mangal pichchey bhan, varsha hove os saman” |n 
monsoon months if Mars is ahead of the Sun rains get 
retarded. This has been experienced a number of times 
and is correct again proving the depth and vision of the 
Sages and Rishis. 


5.5 ELNINO 


On Earth, heat from the sun warms the equator much more than 
the poles, and then the atmosphere and oceans move this heat 
toward the poles. The motion in the atmosphere is powered by 
heat from evaporating sea water. The warm, moist air rises, 
pulling in dry air and creating giant atmospheric loops called 
convection cells that transfer heat away from the equator. 

The phenomena called “Southern oscillation” refers to a 
seesaw shift in surface air pressure at Darwin, Australia and the 
South Pacific Island of Tahiti. When the pressure is high at 
Darwin it is low at Tahiti and vice versa. El Nino, and its sister 
event - La Nina - are the extreme phases of the southern 
oscillation, with EJ Nino referring to a warming of the eastern 
tropical Pacific, and La Nina a cooling. 

The E] Niftio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) may have more 
far-reaching effects on the global climate than researchers used 


Astro-Meteorulogy 163 


i 
ements 


EL NIRO Uptodotimesina + Strong we 2%. Warn becan suilete 


Causes moist air. 
ot lo rise, treating 


zptinct Gtcurs, vhea cast-lo-wes! lad 
winds swaeping averthe Peedic Ocoan |; 
ipbecone unusvatly wenk, allowing warm 
formally held hack by (hs winds, 
eastwards along ihe Equator. 
= The cunenl creales awarm band of. . _ 
‘water ang aa ara ol tow atmaspherte ie aa : Weak trade 
Lpracsure with violent sforma right” oe . winds 
joss Ce. casiemn Pacilic. The global an 
ather- machine Is thrown Into chaos; . 
Wom and cnusual weather evants, 
ich as hurricanes, heatwaves, freak 
ods and droughts, ecur around the 
.glode, drleging devasiation in Ibeir 
wtke, The granh on the eight shows the 
effec! of El Nite or tbe temperature cl 
“wates inthe comtral Pacitle amine. 


century, the €1NIAd ¢ winds a 
' iy 


4970 19864550 t00o 


if os 


to think. Not only the Pacific Ocean, but the Indian Ocean 
experiences cyclical fluctuations in upper ocean temperature that 
have repercussions for the world’s weather, new analysis of 
surface and subsurface temperature, data confirms this 
phenomenon for the first time. It has been discovered that an El 
Nino pattern in the central Indian Ocean, is locked in phase to 
that of the Pacific Ocean. Related effects were also observed in 
the Atlantic that trail the El Nino in the Pacific and Indian oceans 
by about 12 to 18 months. 

For a long time weather analysts have wondered about the 
role that the Indian Ocean plays in the El Nifio cycle, yet they 
have been unable to identify recurrent and robust patterns of 
sea surface variability in the Indian Ocean on El Nijio timescales. 

An Et Nifio begins in the Pacific when warm surface waters 
and heat in the upper layers of the ocean build up in the central] 
equatorial Pacific and subsequently are transported eastward 
toward the coast of the Americas. When this movement/ wave 
propagation, reaches the coastline, it is reflected and moves back 
across the Pacific in the form of a wave that continues to affect 
climate and ocean circulation. The net effect brings disruptive 
floods to some areas, while bringing droughts to others, ranging 
from eastern Australia to Brazil and Africa, and from North 
America to India. 


164 Introduction to Astrology 


For example, when the warm water pool in the Pacific is 
centered at a longitude of about 160°W, the warm water pool in 
the Indian Ocean is beginning to be displaced eastward from 
about 50°E longitude of the tip of India. When the pool arrives 
during the course of a 3- to 7-year cycle along the coast of the 
Americas in the Pacific, the pool in the Indian Ocean is off the 
coast of India. During this state, droughts are seen throughout 
India, while flooding and its related economic and health pertur- 
bations are occurring across Central and parts of South America. 

What's more, the scientists hypothesize that the ENSO cycles 
in the Indian and Pacific oceans may influence each other. Study 
and constant monitoring of El Nifio events in the Indian Ocean 
may help predict rainfall patterns in the Austral-Asia region 6 ~ 
12 months in advance in the way that scientists are now 
attempting to make better predictions of climate variations due 
to Pacific ENSO phenomenon. 

Nevertheless, the dynamic processes within each ocean 
appear to be different, the scientists observe. For starters, the 
warm pool propagates more slowly along the equator in the 
Indian Ocean than that which the pool does in the Pacific Ocean. 
After the full-fledged El Nino in the eastern Pacific dissipates, 
the warm pool in the Indian Ocean continues eastward to 
Indonesia and southeastward into the Timor Sea north of 
Australia. In addition, the circulation of the pool in the Indian 
Ocean appears to be linked with the 3- to 7-year perturbation in 
monsoon winds that blow along the coastlines of East Africa, 
India, and Indonesia. During an Indian Ocean El Nifio, the 
southwesterly summer monsoon is much weaker, and less 
moisture is being advected over India. 

This is a brief introduction to Astro Meteorology. We are lucky 
that the foremost exponent of this science Shri K.N. Rao is 
regularly explaining its use in his articles in various newspapers 
and the Journal of Astrology. The readers must read them then 
only would they understand the depth and the superiority of 
this ancient science. 


ANNEXURES 


ANNEXURES 


1. Mughals and Astrology 


Let us take a birds eye view of Mughal rule. Babar was the grand 
son of two of the most notorious names in the world history- 
Changez Khan and Taimur the Lame. Changez was his maternal 
grandfather, and Taimur his paternal grandfather Taimur had 
invaded India in 1398 but he didn’t stay. His memory however 
stays on as the barbaric, ruthless looter and savage invader. 

Babur ruled India for 4 short years 1526-1530. His 
technologically advanced weaponry; guns; were used for the 
first time on the battle field-earned him a touch and go victory 
over the numerically superior army of the Ibrahim Lodi. His 
companions did not like the heat and dryness of India and 
wanted to return to the cool environs of Kabul. 

Babur pressed them to stay on. Rana Sanga of Mewar 
attempted to root out these Mughal invaders. On 16th March 
1627 he engaged Babur in the Battle of Kanua (40 miles West of 
Agra). The Rajputs fost and the Mughals struck root. There is a 
record of Babur taking Astrological advises. The astrologer was 
Mohammed Sharif; His advise was that Babur would lose hence 
he should desist from-waging war. Babur reacted by the dramatic 
renunciation of alcohol, his breaking the wine goblets and the 
declaraion “with fame even if I die I am content; let fame be 

. mine. Since my body is death’s”. Babur won. Mohammed Sharif 
was given one lakh rupees for his services and banished. 


HUMAYUN 


Babur has written about the birth of Humayun that “On Tuesday 
4 Zikad 913 Hijari (6 March 1508 AD) when Sun was in Pisces 


168 Annexures 


constellation, Humayun got birth in the inner fort of Kabul. 
Maulana Musnadoun, a well known poet, worked out the name 
sultan Humaun Khan from the date of birth, another poet worked 
out Shahe Feroz Kadr as the name. From the numerological 
interpretation of these names and checking their compatibility 
with date of birth, Humayun name was selected for the boy. 


Birthday Celebrations 


Every year, the birthday of Humayun was celebrated by 
weighing him in gold and distributing the Gold to the masses. 
The Palace was decorated in the form of Zodiacal signs. People 
sat in an arrangment, which was totally astrological. This was 
in the form of a massive carpet. The seating arragment was 
circular and made of precious stones. The first (outer) ring was 
white, second ring was blue, third connected with Saturn was 
black, fourth connected with Jupiter was Kesri, fifth representing 
Mars was red, sixth for Sun was golden, seventh connected with 
Venus was purple, eighth connected with Mercury was bright 
green and ninth enclosure, related to Moon, was white. After 
Moon, the enclosures of Fire, Air, Earth and Water were laid in 
succession . 

The Badshah used to sit in the golden area of Sun. Every 
group was related to the seven planets. This way Hindu Amirs 
and Sheikhs sat in black region of Saturn, Syeds and Aalims in 
Kesri region of Jupiter. Similarly all other persons were seated 
according to their rank and profession. King also used to employ 
a dice to select the sitting arrangement. The figure on the dice 
used to decide whether the person has to sit, stand, lean or take 
rest on the pillow (musnad). Each planets enclosure was divided 
into 200 parts; therfore there was arrangement to accomodate 
1400 persons. 


Humayun’s Character 


Humayun’s predicted age was 51 years. His reign lasted for over 
25 years. He was full of all skills besides astounding external 
and spiritual qualities. He was second to none in astrology, 
Nakshatra-Vidya (Astronomy) and all secretive studies. He was 


Mughals and Astrology 169 


supporter of learned, skilled, pure and saintly people. He was 
also attracted to poems and poets and he himself used to create 
good quality verses. He was never without ablutions. He never 
used to take the name of Allah without purity. He used to spend 
nights in conferences and never used to display miserlyness. 
He never used to scold or abuse anyone. He never used to take 
left foot forward first either at home or at Masjid. In his durbar 
also if someone enered with left foot he used to ask him to enter 
with his right foot. He never used to laugh heartily but used to 
smile in public. 


Omens and Shakuns 


Omens and Shakuns are part of Astology. Even while teaching 
Astrology today, Omens ans Shakuns form a Skandha out of the 
five. Shakun and omens were practices by Muslims as FALL, 
which is explained in ‘KANUNE HUMAYUNI' as under:- 

“There are two types of Shakuns. Good Shakun is called FALL 
and bad Shakun is called TIARAH.” 

Hazrat Muhammad declared to believe in FALL and discard 
TIARAH. When asked what is a FALL, Paighambar (Prophet) 
replied that any good word you hear is FALL. He also mentioned 
that running of animals, the flight of birds and throwing of 
stones, which are considered FALL among the idol worshiping 
Arabs, should be shunned. 

Humayun was a firm believer in Omens and Shakuns and 
would, like the believing people even today, seek and be on the 
lookout for a good omen. Two such incidents have been recorded 
in ‘KUNUNE HUMAYUNI’, a book written by Khawand Mir. 
The book has been Published by The Department of History, 
Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh in 1962. 

Humayun was out riding when he wanted to take out a 
FALL. He mentioned it to his companion Maulana Masihuddin 
Rouhalla that the next three persons, who they will come across, 
should be asked their names and FALLascertained on that basis. 
The first person, Humayun came across, was an old man and he 
was asked to give his name. He mentioned his name as Murad 
Khawaja. The next person was a woodcutter carrying wood on 
his donkey. He gave his name as Daulat Khawaja. Humayun 


170 Annexures 


said that if the third person were named Sa-adat it would be an 
excellent FALL indicating great good luck. About the same time 
they came across a small child tending his cattle. He gave his 
name as Sa-adat. This made everyone happy and they belived 
that with heavenly blessings Humayun-would rise and achieve 
his goals. 

KANUNE HUMYUNI goes on to explain the implications 
of these three names as indicated hereunder: 

Ehle Murad - Good Looking, handsome, singers and 
musicians were put under this category. 

Ehle Daulat - All the position holders and the leaders of the 
community, the relatives, the Amirs and the soldiers were called 
the Ehle Daulat. 

Ehle Sa-adat - Syeds, Amirs, Qazis, the learned, the-poets 
and the respectable folk were all! classified under Ehle Sa-adat. 

Murad followed by Daulat followed by Sa-adat was thus an 
extremely fortunate FALL. 

Just before going to batle, Humayun wanted to take out a 
fall and he thought if a white rooster comes and sits on his right 
shoulder, victory would be his. Within few minutes of this 
thought crossing his mind, a white rooster came and sat on his 
right shoulder. Humayun was so pleased with this FALL that he 
even announced impending Victory to his soldiers. 


Division of Weeks Days 


Humayun divided the weeks days according to “Ehle Daulat” 
or “Ehle Sa-adat” or “Ehle Murad”. He had kept Friday for rest 
and Ibadat. 

Saturday and Thursday: Saturday and Thursday were classitied 
for “Ehle Sa-adat” i.e. for Science and knowledge or Ibadat 
(prayers). These two days were chosen for this purpose because 
Saturday is associated with Saturn who is the supporter of 
Adorable Mashayakh (ancient heritage) and Jupiter is associated 
with thursday and it supports Syeds, Alims and honorable 
followers of Shariat (prescribed rituals). 

Sunday and Tuesday: Sunday and Tuesday were classified 
under “Ehle Daulat”. The matters realting to administration of 


Mughals and Astrology 171 


the Kingdom, maintenance of law and order and issuing of 
Farmans (royal orders) etc. The reason for choosing Sunday 
for this purpose was that Sunday is associated with Sun who 
is related to Kings and Haakims by the grace of Gdd. Tuesday 
is associated with Mars who is the supporter of brave 
walriors. 

Monday and Wednesday: Monday and Wednesday were 
clssified for “Ehale Murad”. In these two days the Nadimi 
(reliable subjects) and “Ehale Murad” (special people) were 
called in the Durbar and their desires were fulfilled. These days 
were chosen because Monday is associated with Moon and 
Wednesday is associated with Mercury.Therefore is was more 
appropriate to listen to the beautiful Moon like persons speaking 
the-language of Mercury i.e. Music on these days to increase 
pleasure. 


Humayun’s Administration: Division of Departments of 
Sultanate According to Tattwas 


Humayun divided the departments of his Sultanate according 
to four Tattwas i.e. Aatshi (Agni or Fire), Hawaii (Vayu or air), 
Aabi (Jal or water) and Khaki (Prithvi or earth). He had appointed 
one minister for each of these departments. 

Aatshi or Agni or Fiery Deparment: the department that deals 
with fire most of the time like Gunnery, Weapons, Managment 
of War Equipment etc. is classified as Aatshi department. Khwaja 
Amidul Mulk had been appointment the Vazir of minister of 
the Aatsni Deparment. He used to wear Red clothes in the 
Durbar. 

Hawaii or Vayu or Airy Department: Department dealing with 
the managment of Kirkiraq, Kitchen, Royal Stable and Mules & 
Camels etc. was classified as Hawaii or Vayu or Airy Department. 
' Khwaja Lutfullah was appointed the Vazir or minister of this 
department. He used to wear yellow clothes in the Durbar. 

Aabi or Jal or Waery Department: Management of Sharbat 
Khana, administration of Suchi Khana and routing & digging of 
canals and all such managment which is concerning water were 
classified uner Aabi or Jal or Watery Department. Khwaja Hasan 


172 Annexures 


was appointed the Vazir or Minister for this department. He used 
to wear blue clothes in the Durbar. 

Khaki or Prithvi or Earthy Department: Agriculture, Building 
Construction, Civil Works and adminstration of land etc were 
assigned to the Khaki or Prithvi or Earthy Department. Khwaja 
Jalatuddin Mirza Beg was appointed the Vazir or Mininster of 
this department. He used to wear green clothes in the Durbar. 


Humayun’s Visit to Tabrez 


When Humayun reached Tabrez; he was shown few astrological 
instruments whose Persian names are ‘Ustarlab’ and ‘Kurrah’. 
These were used for measuring the planetry distances. He was 
told that since Tabrez was a very old town, many instruments 
used in observatories could be found there. Humayun was 
intersted in Astrology and ordered that these be searched and 
brought to him. 


Birth of Akbar . 

Akbar was born on 4 Rajab 949 Hijari (14 October 1542 AD) at 
Amarkot in the morning. Moon was in Leo. The birth in Leo is 
considered very auspicious. Astrologers say that the son born at 
this moment will be regal and have long life. Humayun named 
his son Jalaluddin Mohammad Akbar in accordance with the 
dream he saw in Lahore on 4 Rabbi Usani 947 Hijari (8 Aug 1540 
AD). 

One of the reliable subjects of Humayun mentioned that often 
Humayun would look at the Horoscope of his son in seclusion 
and get pleased. Once this man had visited the secluded place 
where Humayun was alone. He heard the footsteps. Since no 
one could visit the place, on pondering it was realized that Hazrat 
Padshah (Humayun) was extremely pleased and dancing. When 
Humayun realized the knowledge of his subject about his 
dancing, He explained that the reson for his rejoicing was the 
pleasure, which he got after seeing the Horoscope of his fateful 
son. 

Humayun had sent Akbar on a compaign with Bairam Khan. 
Some time later, He started worrying about his son‘s welfare 


Mughals and Astrology 173 


and to feel relieved he called for his son’s horoscope, which is 
the safe repository of destiny. Humayun studied the horoscope 
and examined the planetray configurations for longevity, Victory 
over the enemies, and his luck. The examination relieved him of 
all stress and he felt good that due to the luck of Akbar and the 
blessings of his destiny, victory and success of Akbar was 
assured. 

Humayun appointed Maulana Baizeed, who was an 
astrologer and a kinsman of Mirza Ullah Beg, a famous Turk 
Astrologer, to teach Akbar. 


SHER SHAH SURI 


Sher Shah Suri was in Eastern India i.e. Bengal, Bihar and Orrissa. 
Sher Shah heard that a famous astrologer was there in the service 
of King of Orissa. He wanted to call him and consult about his 
future plans. King had not spared the astrologer. However, the 
Oriya Jyotishi predicted in writing that Sher Shah Suri will not 
get victory in Bengal for one year and gave him a time and date 
to cross the river Ganges and leave for Bengal for success. Sher 
Shah Suri fought and defeated Humayun on 10 Muharram 947 
Hijari (17 May 1540). Humayun had to flee and leave India for 
Sher Khan or Sher Shah Suri and his Afghans. 

This indicates the depth to which astrology had pervaded 
the normal psyche and behaviour of Humayun who was just 
the second Mughal Emperor. It must be borne in mind that 
Humayun was on the run for most of the time of his reign and 
had faced some comprehensive defeats. These ups and downs 
made him a firm follower of Astrology because this is a 
definite, replicable way of determining the ebbs and tides of 
destiny. 


: AKBAR 


At the time of Akbar’s birth Chand, the astrologer, was consulted 
who correctly predicted about the auspicious moment of Akbar’s 
birth. The horoscope that we get in Chapter III of Akabar Nama 
was cast in accordance with the Greek Astrolabe. The horoscope 
of Akbar cast by Maulana Chand was as-under: 


174 Annexures 


Name : Akbar 
Place of Birth : Amarkot 25N 15; 69E 40 
Date of Birth : 15'* October 1542 Time of Birth : 2 AM 


+8 
RAHU 


Ww § 
MARS KETU 
MOON 

y 7 6 

MERC | LAGNA 
JUP VEN 


Maulana Chand also cast the horoscope of Prince Salim 
(Emperor Jahangir) in the 14" year of Akbar’s reign in 1570. 
Akbar's horscope as per Hindu astrology and prepared by Jotik 
Rai, the court astrologer, is as given below : 


The difference in two horoscope is on the basis of two 
different system followed by two astrologers. 

In Chapter V of Akbar Nama another horoscope is given 
which was prepared by Azdu-d-Daulah Amir Fathu-I-Lah of 
Shiraz who was consulted by Akbar when he joined Akbar’s 
court in 1583.The horoscope prepared by-him was as under” 


Mughals and Astrology 175 


The horoscope cast by Maulana Alyas of Ardabil (the capital 
of Azarbaijan) followed the Ilkhani tables. Alyas was 
mathemetcian of repute who belonged to the country of Tabrez 
where Nasir-ud-din Tusi had his observatory. The birth chart of 
Akbar by him was as given below: 


The difference between the Greek philosophers and Indian 
astrologers about Akbar’s horoscope is due to the fact that Indian 
‘ placed the Ascendant with horoscope in Leo while the Greek 
placed it in Virgo. This was due to the difference of opinion 
among philosophers about the movement of zodiacal Heaven. 
The difference persists even today. 

During the period of Akbar following two books of 
“Astrology” were produced: 


176 Anmnexures 


> Jotish- This was a book on Phalit Jyotish written by Abdur 
Rahim-e-Khane-Khana in Mansavi (story) form with 
stanzas alternatively in Persian and Sanskrit. 

Tajik- This is a translation of an astrology book in Persian 
by Mukkammal Khan Gujrati on the order of Akbar. Tajik 
is the name of mid Asian race speaking Persian language. 
This word was also used in Arabic.” Tajikneelkanthi” is a 
high order phalit Jyotish book in Sanskrit. The reason for 
naming this book Tajik was that “Tajineelkanthi” was so 
popular that the word “Tajik” became a synonym for Phalit 
Jyotish. 


Vv 


(Akbar by Rahul Sanskratyan pp 308) 
Coronation Horoscope of Akbar 


In the idgah of Kalanur (Kalanur is near Gurdashpur in 
Punjab a dilapidated structure marks the coronation place. In 
an auspicious hour, near noon of Friday according to the 
second Rabi-as-sani 963 of the lunar‘year (14' February 1556) 
but by calculations the middle of the third (15'* February) 10 
Isfandarnaz of the Jalai year 477, 15 Tir of the Yazdajirdi year 
925, 14 shabar of the Rumi (Syro-Macedinian), year 1867, that 
glory of his lofty lineage put on his person a golden robe and on 
his head a dark (mashkin) tiara, and sat with good auspices and 
prestige on the dias of sovereignty and the throne of the 
Caliphate. 


14 Feb 1556 Noon KALANUR 


12 1 2 3 
SU, VE] SAT LAGNA 
MARS | MOON RAHU 


Mughals and Astrology 177 


Description of the scheme of Horoscope of the Accession of 
H.M. the King of Kings. 


Various delightful points emerge from the consideration of this 
auspicious hroscope. The first is that in the tenth angle which is 
the house of sovereignty, the Sun is showing increase of light, 
Now, the main point for consideration with regard to the hour 
of an accession is the propitiousness of the tenth house, Viz that 
there should be propitiousness befitting the approach of world 
adorner. 

Imam-Abu-I-Muhammad of Ghazni, who was one of the 
great masters of astronomical prognostication, has laid it down 
that it is good to have the ascendant in Scorpio so that the tenth 
angle may be Leo, the house of Sun God. Here we have the Sun 
come of his own accord into the tenth and spreading the rays of 
auspiciousness and fortune. 


VERSE 


A Shah who was the fulfiller of hope, 
His heart shone with eternal light. 
How can his ray not brighten the world, 
Who have the Sun for a guardian? 


The second house, which is that of property, is Cancer and 
the Moon, which is the Regent of the house, has attained in the 
eleventh house, which is that of hope, the position of fauq-al- 
arz (ascension above the earth). This is the proof that the keys of 
earth’s treasures will, without difficulty or effort, come into the 
hands of the treasurers of his fortune. 

The third house, which is that of kinsmen and connections, 
is Leo and its dominant the Sun, is in the tenth angle. All reltives 
will be obedient to order and submissive to the commands of 
. the Shahinshah. 

The fourth house is Virgo, which is called the terrestrial angle, 
and conversant with the final results of actions and with 
possessions. The dominant (Mercury) is in Ninth house which 
is that of travel. This is a proof of excellent eventualities and of 
stability of conquests. 

The fifth house is Libra, which is that of children, and 


178 Annexures 


enjoyment and parents. Its regent Venus, is in Pisces, which is 
her house of exaltation.This proves that auspicious children will 
be near to the King and will show affection,'and will grow up in 
the shadow of dominion and grace, that the cup of social joy 
will brim over, and that caravans of gifts from the four quarters 
of the world will unload at his threshold. 

The sixth house is Scorpio, which is that of slaves and 
servants and of disease. Its Rgent Mars is in the house of 
sovereignty (the tenth). This indicates equability of temperament, 
numerous faithful slaves and devoted servants. Though Jupiter 
is in Sagittarius, yet, by virtue of equal distribution of houses, 
he is imparting blessing to the sixth house. 

The seventh house, Sagittarius, is the Western angle and the 
nadir (Nazir) of the ascendant. It is the house of enemies. As by 
the equal distribution of houses it is void of an auspicious star, 
there is strong evidence that the enemies of the state will be 
ovecome. 

The eighth house is Capricorn, which is conversant with 
heritages. As its dominant (Saturn) is in the eleventh house, this 
is a proof that hereditary blessings will be attached to the perfect 
condition of his personality. 

The ninth house, is Aquarius and has to do with knowledge, 
faith and travel, Mercury who is the lord of the Ascendant (as 
Regent of Gemini) is there. He has a kind aspect to the Ascendant, 
and causes the acquisition of the lights of wisdom. He tells of 
sincere inquiry into the affairs of realm and religion. Soundness 
of plan in matters of travel and conduciveness thereof to the 
confirmation of-dominion. 


VERSE 


A king, whom for his wisdom we call Zir fanun (Master of Sciences) 
We call him a guide to the road to God 
Though kings be God's shadows 
He is God's light how then call him a shadow. 


The tenth house, Pisces, is called the tenth angle and is the 
house of sovereignty and of mothers. The Sun, Venus and Mars 
are there. The days of sovereignty will always pass pleasantly, 
and the owner will have daily increasing sources of splendour 


Mughals and Astrology 179 


and glory. Mothers of high rank will attain their desires thought 
good fortune. 

The eleventh house, Aries is associated with hopes and with 
sincere friends. It is the Sun’s house of exaltation, and the 
swiftly moving Moon is Waxing there. Every hope that arises in 
the holy soul will be fulfilled quickly and thoroughly, and friends 
will become successful from being associated with his great 
fortune. 

The twelth house is Taurus and is house of enemies. It is 
void of stars, and Mars is in aspect from the tenth house. The 
enemies of realm and religion will drink blood from the sharp 
sword of Mars. The Moon is in Aries, the Sun’s house of 
exaltation. the great men of this science have declared that in 
accession horoscope, the Moon, which is the intermediary for 
conveying light from the superior heavenly bodies to the inferior, 
should be in Aries. They have considered this to be a 
circumstances greatly to be relied upon. The Sun is in conjunction 
with Moon. The Regent of tenth house (Jupiter)-is in the seventh 
house. The house of ascendant is aerial. These things indiacate 
that the victorious troops will be well disciplined and that there 
will be increase of the royal splendour and glory. The part of 
Good Fortune is strong for it is situated in Leo, which is Sun’s 
house, and its regent is in the tenth house. Jupiter who is strong 
evidence of loyalty, is in the seventh in his own house and is 
most auspicious. The regent of the tenth house is ascending. The 
affairs of the state shall daily advance and be proper. A portion 
of the house of the ascendant is rising in the mansion of the 
Moon. Mercury has a friendly aspect to the Moon. These are 
clear indications that things will turn out the best,-that fortune 
will increase and desires be attained. 

The interpretation of the good points in this horoscope, and 
the wonders of it, is beyond the power of description. Acute 
scrutinizers of celestial tables and corners of degrees on the 
surface of astrocables know by the schedule of thought and the 
calendar of intelligence how few of such great and greateness- 
conjuring hours, in which so many everlasting blessing are 
unfolded have occurred sice the time of the first motions of 
heavens and the constellations and since the conduct of the world 


180 Annexures 


of mankind, which is quintessence of creation, has been in the 
charge of the heavenly bodies. 

One of the poets has said with respect to the chronogram of 
the glorious occasion 


VERSE 


The pulpit was exalted by the King’s Khutba 
And by a just mintage deeds become golden 
By Akbar Shah's sitting on sovereignty’s throne 


The accession of the word protecting lord also points to the 
years ending in bliss. 


JAHANGIR 


Jahangir had firm belief in astrology. Jahangir Nama makes 
it clear that Jahangir himself had the knowledge of Astrology 
and he knew the difference in calculations between the Hindu 
Astrology and Greek Astrology. Jahangir Nama has been 
authored by Jahangir himself and he describes in detail the 
period of his rule. Jahangir Nama is written in persian language, 
which was later translated into English and Hindi. We are giving 
few extracts translated from the Hindi translation of the Jahagir 
Nama, which reveals that Jahagir used to practice astrology and 
consult the astrologers for day-to-day works as well as for taking 
important decisions. Nagari Paracharini Sabha, Kashi, published 
this Hindi translation of Jahangir Nama and second edition was 
published in 1990. In this treatise relevant extracts have been 
taken from this edition of Jahagir Nama. 


CORONATION 


Jahagir came to the throne after the death of his father Akbar 
after taking out the auspicious time: 

“Now we will describe some portion of the praceedings, so 
that is remains inscribed in pages of the world. On the morning 
of Thursday 20 Jamadi-ul-avval 1014 Hijari at the appointed 
auspicious time according to Jyotish at Agra city at the age of 38 
years accepted the Badshahi throne and-became Badshah”. (First 
Julusi Year, Page 1) 


Mughais and Astrology 181 


Julusi year of any King begins with the coronation of the 
king and goes till his death and thus called first, second, third 
year respectively. However, Jahangir started his second Julusi 
year from the day of Nauroz when Iranian first month Farvardin 
starts. This day also marks the entry of Sun in Mesha Rashi.-Here 
it is not clear whether this is the entry of Sayana Sun in Mesha 
or Mesha Sankranti according to the Iranian calculations because 
Jahangir has mentioned the entry or Sun in Mesha on 19, 20 or 
21 March in many years, but at least on two occasions he talks 
about Mesha Sankranit on 10 March. Otherwise, Iranian year 
was used to be solar year and was equal to 365 days and 15 
Ghati. But the remainder one-fourth of the day (15 Ghati) is 
‘calculated in one additional month after 120 years. Beside this, 
Jahangir used to celebrate his Julusi New Year with lot of fan 
fare every year on the Iranian New Year Day ‘Nauroz’. Jahangir 
has also described the planetary pasition at the time of his birth. 
Akbar had sought the belssings for son at the Dargah Sharif of 
Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti of Ajmer. Jahangir describes about 
the incident as follows:- 

“Father's request for son was made with pure heart, that’s 
after 6 years of the death of my brother, on Wednesday 17 Rabi- 
ul-avval 977 Hijari when 7 Ghati day had passed and Tula Rashi 
had risen by 24° Darja (degree) God had sent me in this world.” 

Jahangir had mentioned at-least two Muslim Astrologers, 
who were the contemporaries of Akbar and himself:- 

“His name was Sheikh Abdullah and he was second to none 
in knowledge, intellect and analytical ability. He was an 
extraordinary expert in Astrology but his fate Nakshatra had 
not flourished with my father.” 

“Second example was the chase of Khusro (Jahangir’s 
revolting son), where I had not waited for finding out the 
auspicious moment (Shubh Muhurat) and I had not rested till 
he was caught. This is strange that when I consulted the 
mathematician astrologer Hakim Ali about the moment of 
beginning of the chase, after starting the chase, then he replied 
that even if you had asked for the right moment to start the 
actions for fulfilling your desires then probably you would not 
have found a better time for many years to come.” 


182 Annexures 


Jahangir used-to get the Muhurat for all the events. Journeys, 
entry in a city, on New year, Coronation, and even on proceeding 
for hunt: 

“On getting the strong desire for Aher (Hunt) at the 
appointed time selected by the astrologers when one Prahar six 
Ghati were passed on Friday night on 15 Ramzan which 
coincides with fifth Julusi year’s 10 Azar Month (name of Iranian 
Month) we proceeded for the Aher (Hunt).” 

Jahangir Narma also mentions Samudrika Shastra:- 

“His (Emperor Akbar) nose had a mole on the left side which 
used to appear good. The learned people of Samudrika Shastra 
say that this mole represents extreme wealth and good luck.” 

Jahangir had good knowledge of Hindu Jyotish and Greek 
Astrology:- 

“Ujjain is one of the old cities and included in the seven 
Tirthasthans of Hindu’s King Vikramajit who started the custom 
of looking at the sky and Nakshatras and he also dwelt in this 
city. Today when 1026 Hijari is going and our Julusi eleventh 
year is running, 1675 years have passed. Indian Astrologers make 
their calculations based on his observations only.” 

“According to the calculatins of Hindu Astrlogers on Sunday 
evening of 12'*, when Dhanu Rashi reaches 27° Angle and 37 
Pala later and according to Greek calculations on Makar reaching 
15° Angle, from the womb of the daughter of Asaf Khan 
(Shahjahan’s-wife) a precious gem had come to the world.” 

Jahangir belived in the influence of Lunar and Solar Eclipse 
and used to give alms on this occasion with full faith:- 

“Satuday the 13'* when the day was left by 4 Ghati, then 
Chandra Grass (Lunar Eclipse) started and gradually whole 
lunar body was effected. To ward of the evil effect we had 
Tuladan, wherein silver, gold, clothes, food, elephants, horses 
and other items were distributed in alms.” 

“Sunday 9th was Solar Eclipse, when day had passed by 12 
Ghati. This started from west side and Rahu afflicted 4 parts 
out of 5 parts. From the beginning till end for the full sunshine 
it took 8 Ghati. Different varieties of metals, animals and 
vegetables etc. many articles were given in alms to Fakirs and 
poor people.” 


Mughals and Astrology 183 


The custom of Tuladan was prevalent in the Mughal dynasty 
since the period of Akbar. This had no relevance with eclipse. 
As per this custom, the equivalent weight of the male royal family 
members in gold, silver, clothes etc were distributed in alms. 
the astrologers were consulted for this occasion also:- 

“My father (Emperor Akbar) had this practice that he used 
to get his Tuladan twice a year, once in accordance with Solar 
Year (Iranian Solar Year) and second in accordance with Lunar 
Year (Islamic Hijari Year). This year when Khurram (Shahjahan) 
entered his 16th Lunar Year, all Jyotishi (astrologers) and Rammal 
(who take out Fall) requested that this year is very important 
according to the Janam Patri (Horoscope) of Khurram and as 
the prince who was not keeping good health, therefore I ordered 
that-as per practice gold, silver and other metals will be 
distributed in alms to poor after Tuladan.” 

Jahangir had at least this much knowledge of-jyotish that 
Sun is exalted in Mesha Rashi. He writes about the beginning of 
the third year of his reign:- 

“Thursday 2 Zee-Hijja, First Farvardin (19 March 1608 AD) 
when Sun which provides light to the entire world and keeps 
everyone warm with his warmth is moving from Mina Rashi to 
happier Rashi of Mesha which is the abode of pleasure and 
happiness. This has given world the new light. New Year 
celebrations were held in the village of Rangta, which is 5 Kos 
far from Agra and I sat on the throne with regal pomp and show 
during the transit of the Sun.” 

Jahangir used to consult Jyotishis (Astrologers) in almost all 
matters and also believed in them:- 

“On Tuesday 13'" I called the daughter of Khusro (My son) 
and found her similar to her father as no one had seen. Jyotishis 
told that she was not lucky for her father but was lucky for me. 
At last it was revealed that whatever predictions were made by 
them had come true. They advised me to see her after the period 
of three years so I saw her after she attained the age of three 
years.” 

Jahangir has mentioned number of times about Jyotish Ram 
in Jahangir Nama whom he considers being expert in jyotish 
shastra and his predictions were accurate. Jahangir mentioned 


184 Annexures 


the incident of the fall of Shah shuja (Son of Shahjahan) from 
window while playing, when he fell by his head but landed on 
the thick Jazim (carpets, mattresses etc) and thus his life was 
saved and he did not get hurt. According to Jahangir Jyotish 
Ram had already predicted this incident:- 

“It is strange that three months in advance Jyotish Ram, who 
is expert in his Shastra knowledge, told me without any 
interpreter that from the Janam Kundli (horoscope) of the prince 
itis evident that coming three four months are not good for him, 
and it is possible that he may fall from a high position but this 
fall will not bring any danger to his life.” 

“Badshah Begum left for her heavenly abode on Tuesday 
2ith and I deeply mourned. I pray to Almighty God that he will 
provide her a place in the abode of forgiveness. Strange thing is 
that Jyotish Ram had predicted two-months in advance to out 
servants that some prime lady of Harem will go to the land of 
nonexistence. This he predicted based on the calculations from 
my Janam Kundali and it came out true. “ 

Similarly there is a mention about the intersting prediction 
about Shah Shuja (Son of Shahjahan) whom Jahangir loved most:- 

“In these days only Shah Shuja was afflicted with such a 
boil that he could not even drink water and there was no hope 
for his suvival. It was written in his father’s Janam Kundili that 
his son would die this year. Therefore all Jyotishis were 
unanimous in saying that he will not survive, but in opposition 
to this, Jyotish Ram said that even the dust of death would not 
be able to touch his lap. I asked what is the Proof for this? He 
answered that in my horoscope it is mentioned that this year no 
sadness will effect the heart of the Badshah and since I have so 
much love for this boy no untoward thing will happen to him 
even if some other child may go. As he predicted, It happened 
and he was saved from the clutches of death. The son born from 
Shanawaz Khan’s daughter died at Burhanpur. This way Jyotish 
Ram’s predictions mostly came true.” 

Jahangir has written that his grandfather Humayun was also 
having good knowledge of Jyotish: 

“The same time Abdu-sattar presented a collection written 
by ex-emperor Humayun, God's light is its evidence, wherein 


Mughals and Astrology 185 


some prayers, Jyotish Knowledge related preface and other 
interesting topics were covered, which were meditated by him 
and practiced also.” 

Jahangir was so much impressed with Jyotish that he ordered 
minting of coins as per Jyotish:- 

“It was a practice earlier that while casting coins from metal 
on one side my name and on the other side place, month and 
Julusi year was embossed. It came to my mind that in place of 
month they should emboss the idol of that month’s Rashi, as in 
Farvardin (Iranian Solar Years first month which starts from 
Mesha Sankranti) Month Sheep and in the month of Urdibihishit 
(Iranian Solar Year’s second month which starts from Vrisha 
Sankranti) Ox shape be embossed. Similarly, in whatever month 
the coin was cast, the symbol of the Rashi for that month be 
embossed on the coin in such a fashion that Sun seems to appear 
from it. This practice is my own and has not been followed 
anywhere.” 


Reflection of Astrology in Literature 


The literature mirrors the society. The wide reach of astrology 
among the general public in the 16th and 17th centuries, when 
the Mughal empire was at its zenith, can be seen by the examples 
taken from two renowned, respected and above all widely read 
poets of that time. The poets are Tulsidas and Bihari. Tulsidas 
was born in Rajapur near Banda in Eastern UP in 1589. He 
composed his immortal classic ‘Rama Charita Manasa” in 1631. 
There are numerous references to Astrology in this classic which 
even today is about the most widely read, commented and talked 
about work. When Rama was born here is how Tulsidas 
described it: 


“Naumi titht Madhumas Puneeta, 
Suklapaksh, Abhijtt haripreeta. 
Madhydiwas ati Sheet na ghama, 
pavan kal lok vishrani” 


This is pure astrology-here you have the elements that 
constitute Panchanga laid out in a poet’s format. The” Tithi” is 
here as is the month and the Moon's waxing period and the 


186 Annexures 


time noon and the Muhurt abhijit all are there. These are read 
and understood by the masses. Now look at the description 
Tulsidas gives of the commencement of the writing of Ramcharit 
Mansa. 


“Sanivat sorahsauikteesha karaunh katha pad dhari Seesa 
Naumi, Bhaumivar, Madhu masa, Avadhpuri, Yeh chrit prakasa.” 


Tulsidas commenced the writing of Ramacharita Manasa on 
the same “Tithi” and Vaar as were present when centuries earlier 
Rama was born and he recorded it. The readers loved it for they 
were also like Tulsidas steeped in Astrology. 

We now proceed to the Romantic spectrum of the literary 
rainbow. We are talking of 16th and 17th centuries. The kings 
and the high officials were licentious. Passions and indulgences 
were a hallmark of a person's place in society. In this period 
Bihari, the clebrated poet of the Jaipur court, composed his 
famous” Sat Sai.” The book is compulsory reading in almost all 
Hindi curricula across the country even today. Bihari is a court 
poet. He was to appeal to the alcohol revaged, woman dominated 
senses of his masters. He uses astrologcical similes and 
metaphors. This underscores the reach and of astrology in those 
times. We take one example from the Sat Sai: 


“Mangal bindu surang, 
Mukhsasi kesari aad guru, 
Ek naari lahi sangu, 
Rasmai kiye lochan jagat” 


Translated loosely this would mean, The red “Bindu” is like 
Mars, the face is like Moon and the complexion is “kesari” a 
slightly reddish orange mix. This represents Jupiter. When these 
three combine in one “naari” (lady), the eyes of the entire world 
become “Rasmai” (full of delight, passion, tenderness and Jove). 

Now examine astrology at two levels, the Gross and the 
Subtle. At the Grass levesl Mars is the lord of Scorpio. Moon is 
the lord of Cancer and Jupiter rules over Pisces. These three signs 
represent the watery “tatva”. It is natural that when the get 
together in lady the water of love will gush out of all the eyes 
that happen to behold her. 


Mughals and Astrology 187 


Now take the subtle. India is an agricultural society.The 
scholars and Pundits devised ways and means by which the 
gains of hard work of agricultural operations in the farms could 
be maximized. One-of these was Astro-Meteorology. The rustic 
farmer could time the extent and quantum of rains by 
Astrological observations. One of them was the “Sapta Nadi 
chakra” a device, a charka, by which the-probability of rain is 
ascertained. In this Chakra if Mars, Jupiter and Moon combine 
in one “Nadi” rains are inevitable. 

There is very little doubt that Bihari was well versed in 
Astrology. What is of interest in that the romantic poet could 
address his target audience with verses that rested on astrological 
knowledge to be understood and get due recognition. This is 
adequate proof of the wide spread influence of astrology on the 
Kings and the courtiers, the lay public, and the opinion makers. 
The rulers were Muslims and they practiced and propagated 
Astrology. This needs to be taken note of. 


Conclusion 


The use of Astrology was widely prevalent in the Mughal times. 
Babur, who ruled for four years only is known to have had 
consultations with astrologers prior to important battles. 

Humayun was well versed in Astrology. He used it almost 
compulsively. He was fond of “Fall” or “Shakun”. He had even 
tried to harmonize his adminsitration along the astrological 
tenets. 

Akbar took steps to promote the use of Astrology. Astrologers 
were given respect and were widely consulted. He even tried to 
bring the different counting points to a standard system. 
These differences continue even today. We have the lunar 
months starting from Shukla paksha as well as from Krishana 

, paksha. 

Jehangir knew and believed in Astrology and practiced it. 
Jehagir Nama written by Jehagir gives ample proof of it. 
Jehangir took over the reigns after working our an appropriate 
Muhurta. He was like his grand father Humayun in taking out 
“Fall” or Shakun for big as well as for small events like going for 
a hunt. 


188 Annexures 


Shahjehan and Aurngzeb ruled over an astrologically alive 
populace. And Tulsidas and Bihari are the proof of the wide 
extent to which astrological influences had spread in these times. 

History tells us that Astrology has been a Secular and all 
presvasive branch of knowledge since very early times. 


