V.A.K. AYER 


INDIAN 
HORARY 
ASTROLOGY 
BASED ON THE SHATPACHASIKA , 


OF PRITHUYASAS, ADAPTED 
FOR MODERN TIMES 


| TARAPOREVALA. 
210 Dr. D. Naoroji Road, Bombay 400 001 


INDIAN HORARY ASTROLOGY 


No wonder Horary Astrology is so popular today in these 
- days of high-speed living’ as it gives immediate answers to 
questions about life’s problems, like best times for achieving 
successful results in business, professional or daily life. . 
Questions about the right time for getting a job, starting a 

_ business, about welfare of friends and relatives, about: the 
outcome of work in hand. It is devoted to answering | 
questions impromptu without reference to natal. horoscopes 

_ which may not ‘always be available. Its value to the busy 
_ man or waman of today is thus unquestionable. . . 

_ +. Perhaps the best known. of the Sanskrit classies on 

‘Horary ‘Astrology. is Shatpachasika of Prithuyasas, probably 
dating to the last quarter of the sixth century. Its authority, 
~ veraatility and atthenticity are unquestioned, And here at — 
last is an authentic and very readable translation of this. | 
classic. Not only has the author given the Sanskrit verses 


~ and their literal translation, but has adapted the, teachings 


of the ancient verses to make the text suitable for modern | 
times. And there lies the true value of this translation. | 
This has never been done before. And the author has 
succeeded at the same time in removing many of the doubts 
in astrological reasoning and has successfully directed the 
; rules. of astrological prediction along the mainstream of 
- modern life. With the help of this book, the practising 
astrologer will be able. to answer any question, on any 
situation or problem, that may be put to him — instantly 
ia ‘convincingly. 


"A very useful and pragtical addition to the book is a 
Classified Index giving where the right a answer ean be found 
- to any. question asked. 

The author is a deeply experienced practising astrologer 
and scholar, with many sviccessful books to his credit. The 
‘present. work is a great and long awaited addition to the _ 
‘iterature-on Indian astrology. 9 =f 3 OP 


: aA . a L$. 120 : 


PREFACE 


The present text is one of the most popular and practical manuals on 
Horary Astrology. Written by Prithuyasas, son of the celebrated 
Varahamihiracharya of Hora fame, its authority and authenticity too - 
are unquestioned. So much so, verses from it are quoted by classical 
commentators and, indeed, have become ‘household words’, 
constantly on the lips of practising astrologers for several centuries 
now. It is a measure of-its greatness that Bhattotpala, the famous 
commentator of Hora, has rendered a lucid Sanskrit commentary on 
this work too despite the fact that he himself had authored a similar 
work on horary astrology, Prasnagyana. He reveres Prithuyasas ey 
calling him ‘Acharya’. , 


The present work derives its name Shatpanchasika because it 
consists of 56 verses; the term just means that. 


The word Prithuyasas means far-famed. Probably the author was 
_ 80, and the adulatory epithet stuck to himas an effective name. There 
are no clues as to whether he had an original name. 


A.A. Macdonnel records from textual evidence that Varahamihira 
died in A.D. 587. If that is accepted, Prithuyasas can safely be 
assigned the sixth century. A major work of his is Horasara 
consisting of nearly 1,200 verses divided into 22 chapters. By 
admission, it is a gloss on his father’s magnum opus, Hora or 
Brihajjataka. In that work, he has introduced quite a few innovations 
in the art of prediction. The present work is of a piece with it in its 
innovative character. It bespeaks eloquently not only of his grasp of 
the subject but also in the adroit use of its fundamental principles in 
_. Solving problems arising in day-to-day life. In thus tackling every 
conceivable situation, this work has few rivals, especially those 
relevant to modern conditions. As the descriptive contents will show, 
the application of principles adumbrated are unlimited and for the 
modern student the work is a god-send. 


My object in venturing on this publication is to present it to young 
Students in their own idiom, so they can master this branch.of 
astrology. Its capsule form is eminently suited to learn the original by . 
rote for effective practice. 


In my notes I have tried to remove some of the cobwebs of 
astrological thought so that the student of today can get a clear vision 
of what the masters really meant and said. a 
’ In the translation and notes I have taken for granted a basic 
knowledge of Indian astrology on the part of the reader or I would 
ask him to study first my earlier work Everyday Astrology or other 
standard works. 

If as a result of studying this book the reader is able to solve 
successfully everyday problems of his and his friends, my labours 
would have been richly rewarded. 


VIJAYA DASAMI, 1985 AUTHOR 
Bombay ; 


_DESCRIPTIVE-CONTENTS 


Chapter I 
HORADHYAYA 


Verses ~ 13 


l. 


a nm & WY NO 


Prayer to the Sun-god. The author’s credentials, the subject, 


object and nature of the work. 


. Significance of Chyuti, Vriddhi, Pravasa and Nivritti. 

. Criterion for prosperity of Bhavas. . 

. When actions-succeed with ease, with difficulty and when not. 
. Combination for the speedy recovery of lost objects. 

. Clues for the identification of objects .under broad categories: 


Dhatu,. Mula and Jeeva. 


. Another clue for identifying the nature of objects under query. 


Qs. Model questions. 


Chapter 2 
GAMAAGAMADHYAYA 


Verses "21° 


I. 


Clues for Sthana, Gamana, Aagamana, death, loss, recovery 
from illness and humiliation. Effects when fixed signs arise. 


. Same when mutable signs arise. Effect of benefics aspecting 


Lagna and the Moon. 


. Conditions for the enemy returning home: (a) midway (b) after 


defeat. 


4. Conditions for the enemy’s defeat and the manner of his flight. 


fo aw.) 


. Conditions for a happy journey. 
. Clues for finding out whether the enemy will actually arrive or 


not. : 


. Conditions for the enemy to give up the expedition even when far 


advanced. _ 


8. Conditions for enemy beating a retreat mid-stream and for his 
defeat. 
9. Conditions for leaving at.an early date and its opposite. 
10. Conditions for no-movement, meeting the enemy and the latter 
fleeing. 
11. Clues for early arrival and non-arrival. 
12. Combinations for the quick departure of the enemy. : 


13. Combinations for the enemy starting but stopping en Outs also 
for straight arrival. 


14,15 In how many months will the expected person arrive? 


16, Clue to the number of days within which the enemy can be 
expected. 


Qs. Model Questions. 


Chapter 3 
JAYAAPAJAYAADHYAYA 
Verses 6 “29 0° 


1. Combination for the success and failure of the king. 
2. Combination for the safety and benefit of citizens and those of 
the invader. - 


3. Conditions for the signing of peace treaty and its breakdown. 
4, Conditions for settlement of conflicts. 8 
§. Conditions for the safe return of contingents from abroad. 

~ Qs. Model Questions. 


Chapter 4 
SUBHAASUBHAADHYAYA 
Verses : nas 3 


1. Omnibus solution for all-round success and its opposite. 

2. Combination for gain in ventures and the opposite. 

3. Combination for reaching high position, fame and money and 
their deterrents. 


4. Combination for receiving benefits from a woman; for general 
success of undertakings, and their failures. 


5. Combination for spelling out recovery from illness. 
Qs. Model Questions. 


Chapter 5 
PRAVASA-CHINTAADHYAYA 


Verses . 37 P 


L 


Significators for return of person gone abioad: his early return; 
recovery of lost property. 


2. Combination for return of person from afar or abroad. 


b&w 


. Combination for return of person with safety, profit. 
. Combination for punishment, imprisonment, moving into 


another country, death overseas, for being robbed or cheated. 


. Combination for reckoning the days fora epee to arrive and 


for his return. 
Qs. Model Questions. 


‘Chapter 6. 
NASHTA-PRAAPTIADHYAYA 


Verses . 41 


1. 


Combination for an article being stolen by one’s own relative and 
hidden in the same precincts. 


. Combination for the object being hidden in the threshold, central 


hall or backyard. 


. Combination for the early recovery of a stolen object. 
. Direction and distance of where the lost object has been taken. 


Qs. Model Questions. 


Chapter 7 
MISRAKAADHYAYA 


Verses 45 .- 


1. 


a 


7,8. 


Combination to answer if the expected child.is male or female; | 
whether a bride or a groom will soon be forthcoming. 


. Another set of combinations for a girl’s early marriage. 


Forecasting rain. 


Another set of combinations for rain. 


F Whether it is a boy or girl or delivery not-yet taken place. 
. Combination for identifying—sweetheart, thief, one ill or lost; as 


a baby girl; unmarried girl; elderly lady; a mother; a passionate 
woman. 


Identifying whether the question relates to oneself, 


his brother, son, mother, sister, enemy, wife, a dharmic matter, 
boss, father or preceptor. 

Another clue for going abroad or return. 

Clue to man’s sex. proclivities—with another’s. wife, own, 
courtesan, low-caste woman and the aged. 


. Clue to the state of health of a person abroad. 
. Clue to whereabouts of father. 


All about thefts; nature of article; the thief — his age, caste, etc., 
direction and present location of stolen article, etc. 


Qs. Model Questions. 


WHAT TO LOOK FOR IN 


~ Chapter ] Accommodation, getting | 
13 + 20, Action, success of contemplated 
Bhavas, prosperity of 
Business, success in 
Cattle, recovery of © 
Comforts, chances of © 
Credit, restoration of 
Deprivation, of job, etc. 
Deviation, from position 
Dhatu (metal) 
Friends 
Grace, fall from 
Growth, chances of 
Happiness, chances of 
House, chances of owning 
Jeeva (living things) 
Job, change of 
Job, loss of 
Mula (vegetation) 
Objects, identification of 
Place, change of 
Property, owning 
Proposition, success of 
Recovery, from illness 
Recovery, of jewels 
Recovery, of missing child 
Rehabilitation, chances of 
Returning, of person abroad 
Scandal, removal of 
Slipping, from position. 
Slipping, while walking. 
Visa, for going abroad. 
Chapter 2 Abroad, return from 
21-28 Abroad, success 


Action, contemplated _ 
Arrival 
Bon Voyage 
Ceurt case, winning of . 
Death, fear of ; 
Departure, for home 
Defeat, chances of 
Disease, cure of 

Defeat, of opponent 
Election, competitor’s chances 
Election, defeat of opponent 
Election, result of 
Election, success in 
Election, withdrawal by opponent 
Examination, success 1n 
Enemy, arrival of 
Enemy, beating a retreat 
Enemy, defeat of 
Enemy, departure of 

- Enemy, evil intentions of 
Enemy, flight of © 
Enemy, non-arrival of 
Enemy, non-starter _ 
Enemy, stopped en route 
Enemy, time of arrival 
Enemy, turns back in middle 
Foreign land, success in 
Going abroad, chances of 
Green card, holder of 
Home, return to 
House, going away from 
Humiliation : 
Job, competition in 
Job, high salaried 
Journey, abroad 
Journey, return from 
Leaving 
Loss -_— 
Lost property, gaining of 
Personal problem, solution to 
Pilgrimage 
Position, gain of 
Reputation 


Residence, gain of 
Return, from abroad 
Return, time of 
Safety, of people abroad — 
Sthana, gain of 

Stay 

Survival, from illness 
Thief, scared by 
Travel, chances of 
Travel, harm in 
Travel, success in 
Venture, success in 


Chapter 3 Competitive effort, success in 
.29~31 Conflict of interest, termination, of 
Election, as Mayor, C.M., P.M., President, success in 
Enemy, return of 
Examination, success in 
_ Feuds, reconciliation of 

Fray, return to 
Invader, success of 
Negotiation, success of 
Return, from abroad 
Settlement, of scores 
Tension, ease of | 
Wars, success in 

Chapter 4 Adversity 

33-35 Efforts, destruction of 

: Fame 

‘Fear 
High post, chances of 
HIness, recovery from 
Inheritance, chances of 
Money, destruction of \ 
New business, prospects of 
Position, official : 
Property, chances of gaining 
Prosperity, beginning of 
Scrips, investment in 


\ 9 . 


Wealth 
‘Woman, benefit from * 


Chapter 5 Illness, early recovery from 
37-39 Lost property, recovery of 
Person abroad, dead 
Person abroad, moved to another country 
Person abroad, punished 
Person abroad, under duress 
Return from abroad, number of days to take 
. Return, with profit 
Return, safely 


Chapter 6 Article stolen, by others 

41-43 Article stolen, by relative 
Article stolen, hidden in backyard 
Article stolen, in central part 
Afticle stolen, in. threshold 
Article stolen, direction where hidden 
Article stolen, distance where hidden - 
Article stolen, recovery of 
Missing son, safety of 

Missing son, where and how far distant now 
Chapter 7 Ailing person, character of 
45-50 . Bride, prospects of gaining 
' Brother abroad, state of 

Expected child, sex of _ 
Father abroad, state of 
Lost object, description 
Groom, prospects of getting 
Marriage, failure of proposal 
Marriage, success of proposal 
Pregnancy, chances of 
Query, relates to brother 
Query, relates to.enemy 
Query, relates to dharma 
Query, relates to father 
Query, relates to going abroad 
Query, relates to preceptor 
Query, relates to return from abroad 
Query, relates to son 
Rains, chances of 
Rains, in black half of month 
Rains, in white half of month 


10 


Sex relation with, another's wife 
Sex relation with, low caste woman, 
Sex relation with, middle-aged woman 
Sex relation with, old woman 

Sex relation with, young woman 
Sex relation with, prostitute 

Sex relation with, own wife 

Sister abroad, change of place 

Son abroad, change of place 

Stolen article, chances of recovery — 
Stolen article, déscription of 

Stolen article, place hidden 

Thief, age of 

Thief, caste of 

Thief, reiation 

Thief, short 

Thief, tall 

Theft, time of 

Your fancy, a baby girl/boy 

Your fancy, elderly woman/man __. 
Your fancy, a mother/ father 
Your fancy, passionate woman/man 


11 


Chapter | 


HORADHYAYA 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES 


‘gforrea efi spent aerefarerer ar yegTeTeT 
wer Harte codafers serereay 111.1 


Translation 
oe prostrating at the feet of Sun-god this work on horary 
astrology, full of hidden meaning, has been written by Prithuyasas, 
justly famous son of. Varahamihira, for the benefit of humanity. 
Notes 
In this verse in Arya metre, the author prays to Sun-god, the 
. presiding deity of astrology, at the beginning. In so doing he closely 
- follows the footsteps of his venerable father Varahamihira who is 
considered to be an incarnation of Sun-god. The statement appearing . 
in the third person is characteristic of the humility of our ancient 
authors and the Sanskrit language itself. 


HAMMAM SATAM TT: | 
 aret We: Weataerrrareay — 
ere we fra se Miu 


Translation 


Chyuti should be predicated from the ascendant, Vriddhi from the 
fourth house, Pravasa from the tenth and Nivritti from the seventh. 
All these from the ascendant and other planetary positions at the time 
of the query. ‘One returns from abroad, witha planet: s occupation of 
the fourth house. 

Notes 
This verse in Upajati metre teaches how to tackle the quartet of 


13 


problems: Chvuti, Vriddhi, Pravasa and Nivritti. The word Chyuti 
means slipping; here change of place, fall from grace, deviation, loss, 
deprivation, etc. Incidentally, Vishnu is called Achyuta because He 
does not let dowm his devotees. Sthana-chyuti is a problem often met 
with. It has to be answered in affirmative when (a) the ascendant is 
moveable and (b) occupied or aspected by its lord or benefics and 
unoccupied and unaspected by malefics. 

If the Jagna be fixed, even when not afflicted by a malefic by aspect 
or company, change does not take place. 

In the case of common signs the preponderance of beneficial 
influénces on the ascendant will mean change and if the converse, it 
should be replied in the negative. 

. Now in horary astrology, the ascendant is arrived at ina number of 
ways. Personally, this writer would recommend raising a full chart 
for the moment of query, especially as the verse uses the term 
Other means are. by cowries, asking person 
hame a number, (c) touch the chart, etc. In all these, the principle is to 
arrive at a starting point and the student can choose that method 
which suits him best. One cannot help remarking that the grace of the 
Guru and/or of the patron deity will be a great asset in this matter. 

Vriddhi has relation to home, property, happiness, success, 
growth, friends, etc. These prosper when the fourth house is aspected 
or occupied by its lord or benefics and unspoiled by other planetary 
dispositions. 

Pravasa is leaving, going away from home, Sbroad. etc. Now this. 
will take place only when the tenth house is moveable and by aspect of 
malefics,and not when by own lord or benefics. 

 Nivritti is return from journe¥ or life abroad in the first instance. 
We have to examine the seventh house for this issue. Keturn is 
indicated when the seventh is moveable and is aspected by own lord 
or benefics and it does not take place when aspected by malefics. 

Now, the house of Nivritti is so widely used that for the fulfilment 
of almost all desirable events it is examined. Here for instance is a 
query: . 

: Q. Someone, I suspect, is trying falsely to implicate me ina scandal, 
How far is this true? What will be the result? 

Ans: Here is the chart raised for the time of the query, lagna being 
arrived at by the cowrie method. 


14 


Let us examine Vriddhi first: fourth house contains both lagna and 
fourth lords and Jupiter aspects it. The first answer is that the result 
will be completely favourable to the querist. Nivrittisthan, although 
occupied by Ketu is aspected by its lord Saturn. Hence, the suspicion 
is confirmed, but it cannot make any headway thus leading to a 
favourable result. _ 

Finally, the person from abroad has come home when the fourth 
house contains its own lord or is aspected by it and not otherwise. It © 
has taken as many days as the above planet has been there. Equally, 
he will return in as many days as the planet takes to enter or aspect the 
fourth. 

The above rules and their effects may be tabulated and kept ready 
for reference. 


at at weaeafaget adit at 
Metal earearea Tearsfet af: 

ata cea aa aT — 
Pewee Teodt AAA aT 11311 


Translation 


Bhavas aspected or occupied by their lords or benefics prosper. 
Malefics so doing or so placed harm the bhavas. This rule applies 
equally to the horary and birth charts. 


15 


Notes 


This verse is o1the lips of all astrologers, although only an expansion. 
of Varahamihira’s cryptic statement , 


Braeate ter afrrga artes Frater 
Kalyanavarma too underscores this principle thus: 


-areftaara ae: aferdita afertatiir 1 
oisraasitarsaraty afaraerararereae: 1 


. Rasis become strong when aspected or occupied by own lotds or 
their friends, and Mercury and Jupiter too but not by others: 

The problem that now arises is this: which are thé benefic and 
malefic planets? Does the statement connote natural benefics and 
malefics or functional benefics and malefics? 


Bhattotpala takes them as natural benefics. qarpeyTeyeras 
and malefics: Praag atfeatrorsss and: quotes Laghu 


Jala: 


* entra Tat: srratecrarey “Tafa Afra: ITT: | 
ater: wessicat: aa acer: STOTT: 1 | 


Benetics strengthen bhavas and malefies destroy. Benefics kill © 
enemies in sixth and-none are. good in 8th and 12th. 

Let us analyse our textual verse now. 

The first quarter makes it clear that for any bhava its lord is 
benefic, ‘irrespective of whether he is natural malefic or natural 
benefic. Call this Rule 1.- : 

. The second quarter says that benefics too aspecting or occupying 
bhavas also do good to them. Cail this Rule 2. 

- It follows that with respect to the well-being of each bhava, rule | and 
rule 2 are identical. Logically ‘even matefics can turn benefic if 
functionally so and of.course strong. It all resolves to this: what is 
really meant by. this verse is functional benefics aed: functional 
malefics only and not in the absolute sense. Se 

Jupiter is a natural benefic but for Capricorn he is lord of third and 
twelth and when posited’ in it is debilitated too. Consequently he- 
_ cannot become a benefic to it; he becomes a functional malefic. 

Mars is a natural. malefic,-but for Leo he is Yoga Karaka. Hence his. 
occupation of Leo will only make him a functional benefic for Leo, 
provided he is strong, and not a malefic. Hence the word ara: only 


16 


2 


means functional malefic and not natiral malefics. 
. Here is a brain-twister: what happens when the sixth, eignth or 
twelfth is occupied or aspected: by its own pe Do they aggravate or 
‘reduce their evil indications? 
It should not be difficult to answer this. Following the above logic, 
the lords of these bhavas, strong and declared for that reason 
functional benefics, their occuption-should only lead to (a) lessening 
the evil tendencies and (b) augmentation of benefic effects. Sixth 
house for instance stands for debt, disease, maternal uncle, 
employers, food, etc. The first two should decrease and the others 
prosper. You will understand the effect better when you imagine a 
functional malefic occupy them, when evil propensities will be 
" magnified, and benefic ones quashed. This criterion should be used in 
judging all problems including those raised in verse 2. 


wpe ate he 1d 


. Translation 


When a benefic occupies lagna or when lagna happens to fall in a 
benefic’s varga, be it a Seershodaya sign, the object of the query will 
be fulfilled. Should it be the reverse, it does not conduce to success. 
Should it be mixed, the result too will be mixed. . 

Notes 
Lagna, Hora, Drekkhana, Navamsa, Dwadasamsa and Trimsamsa 
are the main vargas. Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Sagittarius and 
Capricorn are Prishtodayas; Pisces is Ubhayodaya and the rest — 
Gemini, Leo, Libra and Scorpio — are Seershodayas. While. 
Bhattotpala takes the benefics as natural benefics, it would appear 
logical to take functional benefics alone as such and vice versa, but 
there is no dispute about rasis. 

Proposition succeeds when (1) Lagna is occupied by benefic or falls 
"in a benefic varga; (2) Seershodaya sign. It succeeds with difficulty — 
when; say (1) and (2) are mixed; (3) Benefic and malefic occupy 
Seershodaya lagna; (4) Ubhayodaya Pisces rises. In such cases, 
preponderance of benefic influence will decide the issue. These results 
too can be neatly tabulated and preserved for ready reference. 


\ 


17 


aaa: Wirt: eset 
aa get ate ar faa l 
Rat worger gait aise 
AAT ATA THATHGAT 115.1 | 


. Translation 
When the full-moon occupies lagna, and is aspected by Jupiter or 
Venus; or a strong benefic occupies eleventh house — — the object lost . 
is quickly recovered. 
Notes 


The Moon can be deemed full between the tenth of the bright half to 
the fifth of the dark half. He need not necessarily. be the full-moon. 
Benefic here again is the functionally benefic planet and its strength is 
reckoned from its positional, motional and other standards. 
‘Bhattotpala points out that the use of yadi-va and cha imply quick 
recovery. 


Taret fray ate ar Preerey 
$ earat feaa: teafe erafarary | 
> TAMIA: THAT 1161 


Translation 
. The object thought of is Dhatu when the planet occupying own 
avamsa, aspects own navamsa in lagna or its trines. Itis Jeeva "when 
the said planet occupies other’s navamsa but aspects in lagna or its 
trines its own; and Moola,when it occupies and also aspects other 
navamsas there. 

Notes 


This verse provides us an apparatus for identifying the nature of the 
object of query under the broad categories: Dhatu—metals and 
minerals; Jeeva—living things from man to worms; and: Moola— - 
vegetative life from trees to grass. It follows that navamsa charts play 
an important role. The nature of the signs and planets should help 
narrow down and clinch the issue. For instance, Kataka, Makara and 
Meena are watery signs and should the indication be Moola, one can 
narrow it down to water-grown and not land-grown. 


In the éxample, no planet occupies his own navamsa (chart not 
given). Mercury. occupies Mars’ house in navamsa and aspects 


18 


Taurus, house of another planet. So it is. Moola. Being ruled A by 
Venus, it may be a flower. 


and Fat srafrcatsrerett 
we farereanea TAT 
ay ah eretaRANS TT Ua 
| AaaNSa frcrereaea4ree: M7 


Translation 
In odd signs count the navamsas as Dhatu, Moola, jeeve sid ineven 
signs count in the reverse order. Counting should begin from the first 
navamsa of the rising sign at the time. This i is in a nutshell. Details 
should be learnt. 
Notes 

The author gives here another method of identifying an object. 
Should Mesha for instance rise, the first navamsa is Dhatu, the 
second Jeeva, and the third Moola. If Vrishabha (Taurus) rises, it 
being an even sign, the first navamsa Capricorn indicates Jeeva, the 
second Moola and the third Dhatu, etc. We cancompilea table thus: 


Navamsa Odd Sign - Even Sign 
1,4,7 Dhatu Jeeva 
2,5,8 Moola - Moola: 


3,6,9 Jeeva Dhatu 


Some treat the Drekkhana rising in odd and even signs as Dhatu, 
Moola, Jeeva and its reverse respectively, But Bhattotpala points out 
that Prithuyasas does not approve of it, ‘because later on in our text he 
says one should divine the object through navamsa. 


afe acefafrcerarqearenfrePearat 
wersaiferarn aerematart veaH: WATE: 


Translation 
Thus ends the first chapter Horadhyaya of Shatpanchasika written 
by Prithuyasas, son of Varahamihira. 
Model Questions 
Answers to the questions posed will have to be derived from the rules 
given in the relative verse. . 


19 


Verse 


2 , _Chyuti 
'- Is'a change of job imminent? 
Will IT lose. my job? 
Will I i transferred? 
Vriddhi 
Can I hare to own a house? — 
* Will my accommodation problem be solved soon? 
Will I buy property? 
Will I enjoy comforts? 
Pravasa 
Wilt my contemplated journey materialise? 
What are the chances of my going abroad? 
Can I undertake the pilgrimage? 
_ Can I leave this city for good? 
Nivritti 


When will my son return from overseas? 
“Can I hope to return home and settle down there? 
: Lam expecting the return of my wife: willittake placesoon? In 
how many days? — 
Will my personal problem be solved soon? 
Will the stolen object be recovered? 
Will the missing child be recovered? 
Will one recover from his illness? 
Will he rehabilitate himself soon? 
Will my credit be fully restored? 
4. I have started a new. business; will it succeed? 
I am thinking’of going abroad; will I succeed? 
I want to buy a property; will I succeed? 
‘Will my contemplated action bring about desired results? 


5. I lost my passport during transit; will } be able to recover it? 
My child is missing; will he be quickly found? 
Some jewels are missing from home; will I recover them soon? 
My cattle have strayed away from home; will they be recovered? 
6. Can you describe the nature of the object lost? 


20. 


Chapter 2 


GAMAAGAMAADHYAYA._ 
ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE 7 


gefiegivawatita card waMTHT TT 
a yet taney ares at renner aaa: 


Translation 
Should Vrishabha (Taurus), Simha (Leo), Vrischika (Scorpio) or 
Ghata (Kumbha) rise, gain of place or residence (Sthana labha) is 
indicated; neither departure nor arrival. No death. No loss. No cure 
of disease and no defeat (humiliation). 

Notes 

This verse gives the clue to find out the answer to a package of . 
questions. It will be noticed that all the four lagnas are fixed signs. If 
therefore the question relates to the acquisition of a dwelling place, 
landing a job, acquiring a'green card, etc., any one of the four signs 
rising indicates a positive result. If the question relates to travel, i.e., 
departure or arrival, the reply should be in the negative. If it relates to 
a possible fear of death, the reply is in the negative. If it relates to lost 
property, the reply again is reassuring, it is hidden from view, 
possibly misplaced inadvertently. If it relates to a person abroad, he 
has not lost his place or job there; if it is'a missing person, he is not 
gone abroad or far away, nor dead. If it relates to ill-health, its cureis - 
doubtful. Even so, on questions relating to one’s honour and 
reputation or defeat, fixed signs rising ensure safety. 


aferdte q at ReerathiPad wet waft 
Hera MATS MATAR SAT 1121 
Translation | 


Should the rising sign be moveable, the result will be the opposite. If: 
mutable signs,.the resuit will be mixed. Benefic aspects to the lagna 


21 


and the Moon-lagna will ensure a happy result and of others, adver: se 
results. 
Notes ’ 
In this verse in Arya metre, the author discusses other lagnas. - 
For example, should Mesha, a moveable lagna rise, the person has _ 

: not arrived; he is moving; he will not get the position or home desired; 

“his chances of recovery are good, etc.; object lost is irrecoverable; 
humiliation is certain. 

_. In the case of sutable signs, Bhattopale makes it clear in his 
Prasnagyana that should the rising cusp fall in the first half, it will 
partake of the effect of a fixed sign being by its side and the second 
will partake of the effect of moveable signs for.the same reason. 
Coming to aspects, should both benefics and madlefics apply, the 
effect will be mixed in character: We can tabulate the rules and results" 
from these two verses for ready reference. 


Aaergrt: ot: eqatnifaradt | 
Sgt area: erp freee 11311 


“ Translation 

Malefics occupying fifth and/or sixth houses indicate that the enemy 

turns back home midway. When these malefics occupy the fourth 
house, after arriving, the enemy will return defeated. 

. Notes 

Here too benefics and malefics should be judged by their functional 

character, although Bhattotpala mentions the Sun, Mars and Saturn 

specifically as evil. Questions relating to evil intentions on the part of 

the enemy are also covered by this dictum. Results of an election can 

be covered by this verse: i 


erenferagrsraraier Taree ar Fee: | 
Feat: TereTETT ATS: THAT 11411 


-Transalation 
. Should Meena (Pisces), Vrischika (Scorpio), Kumbha (Aquarius) or 
Kataka (Cancer) be the: fourth from the rising lagna, defeat of the 


enemy is indicated. Should this fourth house be one of Chatushpada 
signs, the enemy will flee from the battle-field. 


Notes 


Chatushpada or four-footed signs are: Mesha (Aries), Vrishabha. 
(Taurus), Simha (Leo) and the second half of Dhanus See) 


ee 


The word Chatushpada can also be interpreted differently. In olden 
times, the army had four wings: Ratha, Gaja, Turaga, and Padati. Of 
these, Gaja and Turaga are four-footed and hence it may be 
interpreted to mean them and argued that the enemy will flee with 
them. By application, it may also be taken that in the case of modern 
man, the enemy will be driven away by animals like dogs or flee in 
four-wheelers! This verse too can be used for elections. 


saad ope: fea: ett aftr anfrarz 
aaa as Reraeashy ar apes 51 


Translation 


When moveable signs rise and be occupied by benefics, it does Sond 
to the intending traveller. (The object of the journey is fulfilled.) The 
same signs occupied by malefics cause harm to him. When fixed signs 
rise and malefics occupy them, the traveller fares well too. 

Notes 


There is an alternate version of the word Sthirodayepi as Sthire 
ashtamepi meaning that even if the eighth house contains a malefic, 
provided it is a fixed sign, it does good. Here again the functionally 
benefic character of the planets should be taken into comsidersyon 
for success. 


feat areft ated + arTat feapier | 
Tarra feardes fared freer 11611 


Translation 


When a moveable sign rises and the Moon occupies fixed sign, the _ 
enemy will not come. His arrival should be predicted when the 
positions are reversed. 


Notes 
This verse relates to reported-movements of enemies. The contra- 
indication referred,to above consists in a fixed sign rising and the © 
moon occupying a moveable sign. 
| feat q aera frcere & aT: | 
Prada Feqerar qecarratsht ay 11711 


Translation 
Should a fixed sign rise and the Moon occupy a mutable one, the 
enemy beats a retreat even if he. had far advanced. 


23 


Notes 


In the matter of enemy movement, the author examines the different 
combinations and interprets them. This is one combination and more 
combinations are referred to in the following verse. 


at araft aan free: 
qarsedanren frada Feq: | 
Poet arrrat fret eat — 
STAT: TITS AAT TUS 


Translation at 
When mutable lagna rises and the Moon occupies moveable sign, the 
enemy returns after marching half the distance. When it is the 
opposite, offensive will be weak for one. His arrival is certain; but 
should the two be aspected by malefics, defeat to the querist is certain. 
| Notes an 
By opposite is meant that moveable lagna rises and the Moon 
‘ occupies mutable sign. Here again the functional malefic alone has to 
be taken into account and not the nominal. Inferentially, when 
malefics do not aspect, there is no defeat. 


araiteatraratarsht ited war staf | 
TACTASS THA THM THTEAT 1191 | 


Translation 


When a moveable sign rises and any one of the ainiiets: Sun, Saturn, 
Mercury or Venus, occupies it the enéray should be declared to start 
his expedition very soon. Should such a oa be retrograde, the 
answer is in the negative. 
Notes 

_ It is common knowledge that the-luminaries Sun and Moon have no 
retrograde motion and they should be kept out of reckoning in this 
context. Retrogression also implies that the person already: sone will . 
not return. 


“ Readed deartestiee warn da aty geo! 1 
per ge a B01 


‘Translation 


When a fixed sign rises and is aspected by Jupiter ond Saturn, the 
query should be answered in the negative in respect of departure or 


arrival of the foe. Should in addition malefics occupy third, fifth and 
sixth, there will be conflict with enemy. Should, however, malefics 
occupy the fourth, the enemy will beat a retreat. 

: Notes ; 
The first combination shows that there will be neither arrival nor 
denartirey ie., NOt moved .out of station. 


arreahh ToaK nares aaeret 
aerpeater fred wer car eftrarenfe 1111 


_ Translation. 
Should Sun and Moon occupy the fourth house, the enemy force will 
not arrive. Should Mercury, a upIEE and Venus occupy the fourth, it 
will arrive very soon. 
Notes 
Although the clue relates to army movement of enemies, it can be 
suitably used in our day-to-day affairs. 


ava feeget aeqeaean water free at 
Sa ae aes at Pea a Wvd2u 


— Translation 
Should any one of Aries, Sagittarius, Leo and Taurus rise or brcome 
_the fourth house, whether eae? or a a by planets, the . 
enemy departs at once. 


> ferceratt aged afrteat Reece ey: 1 
Se ee Se arr 1 


Translation j 
When fixed sign rises and. is occupied by Saturn or Jupiter, the 
enemy, although he has departed from his place, has stopped his 
movement. Should a moveable sign rise and the Sun or Jupiter 
occupy it, the enemy will surely come. 


Ve: waters ararafereye feera: | 
arereveit cee 1 


Translation 
The expected person will take as many months to return as the 
number of houses the most powerful pinncts in the chart is away from 
the lagna. 
; 25. 


Fereot Peepcararet Pryor eeremrent ae 111511 
: Translation 
Should the above planet occupy moveable navamsa, say,in as many 
months as the navamsa. Should it occupy fixed navamsa, say in twice 
as many months, and should it be a mutable navamsa, in thrice as 
many months. 
Notes , 
The above two verses should be. read and interpreted together. The 


‘ question obviously relates to a person who is far away, possibly in a 
foreign country, and is expected to arrive. 


aatterarsmntrsrrrntiratadar 
wate wmerga: Bret FT TASTE 111611 


Translation 


Others say that the person will return when the lord of the seventh 
house from the lagna becomes retrograde. 
Notes 

Bhattotpala mentions Krishna and others as holding this view and 
-quotes a relevant verse to this effect. Obviously, our author does not 
appear to share the view. When Makara or Kumbha lagna rises, the 
seventh lords are respectively the Moon and the Sun, which have no 
retrograde motion. eudeny this rule cannot be applied to these 
dagnas at any rate. 


saute water a orafents areata: 1 
array TarSoatate Het aT TE: BAT 111711 


Translation 
The enemy will arrive in as many-days as the lunar rasi is away from: 
the prasna lagna provided no planet is situated in between.. 

Notes ; 
This is one more combination for reckoning the time of the enemy’s 
arrival. When any planet intervenes between the two lagnas, the 
enemy will not arrive. What happens when the lagna and the Moon 
occupy the same sign? Some of the earlier verses like 6,7,8 should be 
used to find out the arrival and the navamsas of the two significators 
pressed into service to reckon the days. Pa 


26 


aft acefafecrcrst TATETAT faePaarat 
“omgreanferarat marmite feta: Ta | 


Translation . 


' Thus ends the second chapter Gaimwapameadnyave of 
Shatpanchasika written by Prithuyasas son of Varahamihira. 


_ Model Questions 

Verses 

1 & 2, Has my son started home? Or not yet moved? 
Can I get a dwelling place or house? 
Will I get a high salaried job? 
Will my son arrive home? 
My friend is seriously ill; will he survive or die? 

_. .] am embarking on a new venture; will I succeed? - 


There is no news of my friend who has gone abroad; is he safe? 
Or has he left for another place? 


Will I come out of my difficulties without losing face? 
Will my enemies humiliate. me? 
Will I lose my election? 


Will my competitors in the election leave the field or be 
defeated at the hustings? 
Will I succeed in the competitive examination? 
4. Will my competitor flee? 
Will I overtake the enemy? 
What is the manner of my enemy’s flight? 
Was the thief chased away by a dog or frightened by a cow? 
_ §. Will my friend havea bon voyage or meet with trouble on the 
way? 
6. Will there be serious ea in my trying for a particular 
: job? ; . 
7. | Will the opposing candidates withdraw at the last moment? 
What is the fate of my contender? 
8. Will I be defeated in the election? Competition? 
9. Will it be possible for me to go abroad at an early date? 


10. | Whatare the chances of my success in the election? Competitive 
. examination? 


11. Will the suit against me come up for hearing soon? 
14, 15 & 16. In how many months will my son return home fromabroad 


Chapter 3 


JAYAAPAJAYAADHYAYA 
VICTORY AND DEFEAT. 


serdar: stem araferier Areva: 
arasstemrerra: Trea Prore TTT 


Translation . 
When benefics occupy the tenth, first or seventh (from the lagna), it 
indicates success of the king. Mars or Saturn in the ninth indicates 
defeat, while Mercury, Jupiter or Venus therein indicates success. 
Notes 

Although the problem is stated to refer to success or defeat in wars, it 
“ can be used in our day-to-day life to determine success in elections 
and such other competitive efforts. The mention of planets by name is 
only symbolic; their functional character should be taken. 


far artrereey Ay AeT: 
eee SO see ton ti2ti 
Translation. 
Rasis from third to the eighth from lagna, are known as Pauras and . 
from the ninth to the second as Yayis. Benefics in Pauras benefit the 
city, and benefics in Yayis benefit the invader. Malefics occupying 
12th, 10th and 11th are harmful to the city and helpfulto the invader. 
Notes 


It follows that these bhavas occupied by both benefics and malefics, 
indicate a mixed result, i.e., the result will be undecided. : 


qafeden eqed ereqetaerdeancs wer wafer 7 | 
NRL AE ATE SERCO AKIE 


: 29 n 


Translation . 
Reconciliation will take place betwen kings early when human signs 
rise and benefics occupy them. The same will be the case when 
benefics occupy twelfth and eleventh houses. When malefics occupy 
mutable signs, it shows conflict. 
Notes 

Mithuna (Gemini), Kanya (Virgo), Tula (Libra) and Kumbha 
(Aquarius) are human signs. Although intended for kings, this 
criterion can be used in all cases where settlement of scores is 
involved. In the latter contingency, negotiations will fail. Here again 
functionalism of planets should be kept in mind. _ 


“@atterar: than: aheltder geen: ARAL | 
wetter arrseer: ararecearey Peretz 114.11 


. Translation 
Benefics in kendras or human lagnas and aspected by benefics bring 
about settlement. Malefics similarly placed and aspected by! malefics 
do the opposite. 

. Notes 


‘This is one other combination for the successful termination or 
otherwise of conflicting interests. It is to be understood that mixed 
placements will tend to continue the tension without resolving it, a 
preponderance of benefic influence leading to prospective resolution. 


Pedr at gate ar peapet war get 1 
AEAASSTHGA ATTA, FATT: 11511 


Translation 


‘Should Jupiter or Venus occupy second or third house from the 
lagha, without doubt the army or person from. abroad will arrive 
soon. 


Notes 


The placement of the planets may be in the second or third or both, 
singly or together. : 


verre voor gfe woe 


Translation 
_Thus ends the third os Jaysapajayaadhyeye, of Shaipanchatka 


30 


-written by. Prithuyasas, son of Varahamihira. | 


Verses 
1. 


Model Questions 


What are the chances of Mr X being elected Mayor, Chief 
Minister, Prime Minister, President, etc.? 

What are the chances of the two feuding parties coming 
together? Will the negotiations succeed or fail? ; 


Will our forces return safely? 
Will my son return from abroad? 


31 


Chapter 4 


SUBHAASUBHAADHYAYA 


_ THE AUSPICIOUS AND INAUSPICIOUS — 


| SaPrathy quaferdy cay Sarenattay 
ceo tere Fea Fd: Fg 11111, 


; Translation 

All kinds of prosperiry should be predicted for man when benefics 
occupy kendras (quadrants) and trikonas (trines), and malefics . 
occupying places other than kendra and the eighth house. SPPSete 
placements bring about the opposite result. 

_ Notes . 

There is a variation in reading as Subhanviteshu for Subhasthiteshu 
and Viparyayastveshu for Viparyayastheshu, but there is no 
substantial difference in meaning: The last half refers to the condition 
when malefics occupy quadrants. as well as the eighth house while 
benefics stay elsewhere. 


Sac reso iaccheal nag Scene i 
qarse eer Prey wees ToerTEay YM ge T 2h 


Translation 
Benefics occupying third, fifth, eleventh and seventh houses will 
prove gainful and malefics therein, harmful. Benefics in the human 
signs Libra, Gemini and aan will also prove beneficial, say the 
rishis. ‘ - 

Notes 

Aspects to these houses by the respective planets may be taken as 
equivalent to occupation. 


33 


sara career hear area eaqa arama wate 
STO Sear NHN He AME RAT ATT 11311 


Translation . 
Benefics in the tenth and the seventh will bestow position or place and © 
in the second, fifth and lagna, fame and wealth. Malefics in the 
twelfth and eleventh will not bestow happy results. (Malefic) Mooni in 
lagna will not give favourable results, while in the tenth (even when | 
malefic) it will. , 


ox fomaeararatehrted eters: wae Tarerea A 
arareatgqatarnres wer: eratearerarer: aver: EATTT 11411 


Translation 4 
Should the Moon be placed in the second, seventh, tenth, eleventh, 
sixth or third and aspected by Jupiter, the benefic result will originate 
from a wuman. Malefics in the lagna, third, ninth, fifth or eighth will 
destroy effort and money, besides causing fear, while benefics therein: 
ensure happy results. 


ae: heft freer ere 
> Prageeret ot Premarceargy aaataheafeararg, 11511 


_ Translation . 

When benefic planets occupy lagna, seventh, eighth and fifth and are 

aspected by benefics and the Moon occupies third, sixth, tenth or 

eleventh, recovery for those suffering from illness should be 

predicted. 

Notes 

Bhattotpala points out that benefics other than the Moon occupying 

the said places should aspect.among themselves for the formation of 
this yoga. It follows that malefics in such houses and the Moon 

otherwise placed will lead to a contrary result. Here again, when the 

planets are situated otherwise than what is stated, a preponderance of 
favourable influence should be looked for eventual recovery. 


STS ANTS MATT ATT: AT: AACA: | 


Translation 


Thus ends Subhaasubhaadhyaya of Shatpanchasika written by 
Prithuyasas, son of Varahamihira. 


Model Questions 
Verses : 


1. What are ‘my present prospects? Can I start a new business? Or 
should | sit tight? 


2. Should-I invest in this particular scrip or will it ruin me? — 
3. Can L aspire for that post and will it bring credit to me? 
4. Am | likely to inherit my aunt’s estate? 

’ Jam venturing into a new business; will I succeed in it or not? 
5. My brother is seriously ill; will he recover completely? 


35 


ad Chapter 5 


_ PRAVASA- CHINTAADHYAYA | 
. EMIGRATION 


RUTAEUTTAS TaTAe META eA TTT 
_Seheentea every yotearomy 101 


Translation 


Return of a person gone away should be ‘predicted from pines 
occupying fifth, second and third houses; recovery of lost property — 
should be predicted by the occupation of benefics in those places. 
Early return or recovery should be predicted by Jupiter and Venus 
occupying ace places. 


“afey caver 9S ae: ca eae ‘ re 
ES ea) nora rian 


“Tensiation™ 4 
The person from abroad will return when the seventh or sixth is 


occupied by planet, J meet occupies a eerie or Mercury or Venus 
occupies trine. 


aati areata: To 
i aaa ie hla 130 


Translation 
When the Moon occupies eighth and the quadrants are free of 
malefics, the person away from home returns safely. When the 
quadrants are occupied by benefics, he returns with profit.” 
Notes 


By implication, the Moon should not be weak, even as the benefics. 


“37. 


gated crater a aegis ar 7 
_ Steger aera: eter Ferrer aftares are: 114 


Translation . 


_ When a prishtodaya sign rises and (a) is aspected by a malefic, the 

‘person abroad has been punished or put uridér restraint; (b) malefics 
‘occupy the third and are unaspected by benefics, he has moved to 
another place or country; (c) malefics occupy sixth and aspected 
by malefics, the person is dead; (d) malefics occupy quadrants, he is 
robbed or cheated. 


Notes 


Bhattotpala explains that the use of the indeclinable va implies this 
order of interpretation. 


wet Prerrarrett ye g Aare seer: 
Se a 


Translation . 


“Count the number of rasis from the lagna to the house: first occupied 
by a planet; multiply the number by twelve. It will take as manydays — 
for the person to arrive. Should the planet be retrograde, it will take 
that number of days (duration) for one to return. 


gfe acrefatecrerst garentecterarat | 
Tereerterearat raraparar erat THR: AAT: 


‘Thus ends Pravasa-Chintaadhyaya of Shaspanchasia written by 
 Prithuyasas, son of Varahamihirg. 


Model eae 
Verses 
1. — Will my son return soon from abroad? 
T have lost my wrist-watch; can I expect to get it back?. 
L have incurred a loss in by business; can I expect to make it 
good soon? 
My son is missing; will he come back? 
. 2&3. Will my partner return from abroad with safety and savings? 


4. Is my friend who has gone overseas safe? Has he moved to another 
country? Has he been cheated or robbed? Is he alive because I have no 


38 


news of him? 
§. In how many days will my wife return? 


In how many days will my mother-in-law return to her native 
place? 


When do you think I can return to the Gulf countries again for a job? 


20. 


Chapter 6 


NAS HTA-PRAAPTIADHYAYA 
LOST PROPERTY . 


feqtted fererat ar anferraasht ar | 
Read aaa cared abe aiftary rida 


‘Translation 


When a fixed sign, a fixed navamsa or vargottama navamsa rises, the 
missing article or money has: been stolen by one’s own relative and 
hidden in the premises itself. 


Notes 


Bhattotpala explains that other signs rising and other planetary 
placements indicate that the article has been stolen by others and 
removed to other places. 


econ aee ord 
ERS TM AA Yered F FVSAZ 11211 


. Translation 


~ Should the rising cusp be in the first drekkhana, the stolen article or 
money is hidden in the threshold; if middle drekkhana, in the central 
part; and if last drekkhana, in the backyard: 


Notes 
The first ten degrees: of a sign constitute the first drekkhana; the. 
second ten the second drekkhana and the third ten, the last 
drekkhana. They are ruled by the sign lord, fifth and ninth lords 
respectively. 
aot: erat aera: eat ar eiratea ahah ofr ] 
TREY ATT HEI TAL SAMMI ATAHSALA 11311 


41 > 


Translation 

The lost article will be quickly recovered when (a) the full moon ora 
benefic occupies lagna; (b) Sirshodaya lagna rises and aspected by _ 
benefics; (c) a benefic in. power occupies the eleventh. 

; Notes 

Sirshodaya rasis are: Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio and Aquarius. 
Bhattotpala points out that by implication the absence of any of the 
above combinations indicates that the chances of recovery are 
remote. . = = 


an ee emer meee 
reMTeaaR rear AT ST ATT 44 +1 


| Translation . 
The direction should be reckoned by the planets occupying kendras.. 
_ In their absence, by the lagna itself. The article has been taken as 
‘ many yojanas.as the navamsa lagna is distant from the first navamsa 
‘in the first half and from the central navamsa in the second half of the 
lagna. 

Notes 
The directions indicated by the planets are: the Sun — East; Venus — 
South-East; Mars — South; Rahu — South-West; Saturn — West; 
the Moon — North-West; Mercury — North; Jupiter — North-East. 
Two or more planets in kendras indicate the use of this formula, 
otherwise the lagna, whose directions are: Aries, Leo, Sagittarius — 
East; Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn — South; Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 
— West; Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces — North. A yojana is described as 
four times a ‘krisa or calling distance. An appropriate measure of 
distance should be evolved i in terms of modern conditions. 


—-sfearcrefatecrerst Tarentaareraat 
“qersaiferera aemitaatttemit ws: TAT: 


_ Thus ends Nashta-Praapti Adhyaya of Shatpanchasika written by 
Prithuyasas, son of Varahamihira. 


Model Questions 
Verses x fF 
1. A silver vessel has beeri stolen; can the thief be a relative? 
2. Where could it be hidden? - _ 


3. _ What are the chances of its recovery? 
+ cal * t : 


| 42 


4, In what direction has the article been taken and how far? 


My son is missing; where and how far is he likely to have gone? 
Is he safe? . 


43 


Chapter 7 
MISRAKAADHYAYA 


.MISCELLANEOUS 


Preatees sag Ger WATT AT ETATATTT | : 
HAT AEN ATH AAAASAS AM ATT V1 | 


‘Translation — 

When Saturn occupies odd sign from the lagna, it is male child; when 
it is otherwise, female child; the first also unsieates gain of bride and 
the second gain of groom. 

‘Notes 
The first answer relates to an expected child, the second, an eligible 
groom and the third, an eligible bride. Among odd signs, the rising’. 
lagna should not be counted as per Varahamihira’s dictum Vihaya . 
lagnam, etc. 


qedfrctegetergrmeraten: watt em | 
See ee ee N12U1 


Translation 
The querist will succeed in arranging the marriage when (a) the Moon — 
occupies the third, fifth, seventh, eleventh or sixth house_and is 
aspected by Jupiter, Sun and Mercury; (b) when benefics occupy 
quadrants or trines. 
Notes 


Although the natural benefics are mentioned by name, functional 
benefics alone are meant. By implication, other placements indicate a. 
negative answer. 


iP 
! 


area: acre fare Tasea anf gar Prag | 
saa aa 


Translation 
In the rainy season rainfall should be predicted when Venus and 
Saturn occupy (a) seventh from the Moon and Sun; (b) second, third, 
fourth and eighth from the lagna. 
Notes 


Venus can never occupy seventh from the Sun; hence his placement in , 
the seventh can relate only to the Moon. 


SS SUS Herayret TeSaT 11411 


= Translation 
In the rainy season, rains should be predicted (a) during the white half 
of the month when benefics ‘occupy. third, second and quadrants in 
watery signs, or (b) when the Moon occupies lagna in watery sign. 
Notes 
Watery signs are: Cancer, Capricorn, Scorpio and Pisces (vide : 
. Horasara). According to Mantreswara, . Cancer, latter half of 
Capricorn and Pisces are watery signs. 


gat ane WueRe senhat Ter: | 
SRE NST Ee Li5tt 


Translation 
Should the lagna fall in a masculine varga and be aspected 
by male planet in power, male child (will be born). In dual.varga and 
aspected by female planet, a girl (will be born). Should the lagna 
contain Mercury, the lady is pregnant. 


Notes © 


This verse relates to the question put on behalf of expectant mothers. ~ 
Odd signs are male vargas; even signs are female vargas. Important - 
vargas are the well-known sixfold vargas. Among planets, Mercury 
and Saturn are eunuchs; the Moon and Venus are ening and the 
rest, masculine planets. 


wuricet areal Terra Far Maha: aire VEATE | 
eat apabert stated Peeret a aa: amreeay fay 1i6tl 


Translation 
Should the lagna be occupied or aspected by the young Moon, it is a 
baby girl: if by Mercury a git] come of age but unmarried; if Saturn, 


. 46 


elderly lady, the Sun and Jupiter indicate a:woman who has'__ 
delivered; Mars and Venus point to the passionate woman. Should 
the question relate to a man, the age should be judged along: similar 
lines. 

Notes 


This verse provides the answer to the question as-to the. type of 
‘woman or mana person would desire or look for. The Moon is said to 
be young from new Moon to the tenth lunar day; from the eleventh to 
. the fifth lunar day i in the black half, adult stage; from the following .. 
day to the New Moon, it is aged. It stands to reason that should the - 
‘Moon in the other two stages aspect the lagna, the ee 
. type of woman or man is in view. The first, stage relates to the 5 
puberty stage. Bhattotpala points out that some: construe. t *4 
Mercury too indicates a girl child. He also construes the word 
karkasa as a very youthful woman. But the word has a ‘pejorative - 
connotation, vide: katina, krura, katora, nishtura, etc. (Amara). In 
matters 3 of ailment, theft and loss too, this clue can be used. 


| arement araa-qdtathatane: aa: Fat: 7 
Bre aT art a ager art: WE NT 


wat aeaaetsae raha Tees | 
ariel Saba 


; Translation 

Should a planet in strength occupy lagna, the query relates to himself; 

should the third house be so occupied, it relates to his brother; if itis “ 

the fifth house, it is about the son; if fourth, it is about the mother or 

sister; if sixth, it relatesto the enemy; if seventh, the wife; if ninth; a 

religious dharmic person; if tenth, preceptor or father. Should the 
lord of the navamsa lagna in strength occupy lagna, it is about 
: oneself; should a friendly navamsa lord occupy lagna, it is about a 
friend; if it is his foe occupying lagna, it is about his foe. Should more 
than one planet occupy the respective houses, the more powerful 
among them should answer the purpose. ; 

Notes 


This verse provides the clue to find out the person whom the’s querist 
has in mind. On friendship, enmity, etc., among planets, reference. | 
may be made to standard books or the famous verses ‘Satroo manda 
sitau....’may be recalled. Asa corollary to this verse, one may use the 
karaka factor too to elucidate the Pipes: 


47 


SUT ATHY AUTEM Tara PATE | 
We: aeaaaaaeqaige ate 7 aA 11911 


. : Translation 

When the lagna and its navamsa are moveable and the latter is 
beyond the fifth, the query relates to thinking about going abroad or 
away. He wants to return soon, should any planet move from the 


seventh house at about the time, provided it is not a Tetrograde 


movement. 
‘Notes 


It follows that when the last mentioned planet is retrograde, i.e.,from _ 


_ the eighth to the seventh, the person will not return home, until he - 
- becomes direct, when he will. 


7 area Parra: wud Gee asc oe 
a Si a eee 


Translation 


When the Sun, Venus or Mars occupies seventh, sex relation was with. 


_. another’s wife; with one’s own, if itis Guru; it is the courtesan if 
Mercury or the Moon; a woman of low caste, if Saturn. The age of the 
Moon should determine her age. 


Notes 


This verse gives you the detective eye to peer into the private life of a 
person at a given time. In the Notes to a previous verse it has been 
shown how the Moon’ s age is divided into young, middle and old age. 


We: Ua aeATETAT ATT: 
Weed: TAN WS Feyse UT LI 


- Translation 

Should Saturn with malefic occupy ninth house, unaccompanied or 
unaspected by benefics, the person abroad or away ails from ill- 
health. Should he be so placed in the eighth, the ailing person will die. 


dhadisd: diet: dgerarend dear | 
| Rene eert ae: a aver: Prem re in 


Translation 
When the Sun, accompanied by a benefic and ainceied by benefics, 


occupies the eighth, say that his father has gone abroad or away to 
another State. 


48 


2 


Notes 
— It follows that. when not so, he is there in the place itself. As a 
corollary, other karakas too can be handled in an identical manner. 


| aterepreaad wear Repel CHT: CAAT: | 
afte: rater ait ses aT LV130l 


Translation 
From the navamsa lagna should be gleaned the material; the thief 
from the drekkhana; time, direction and location from the rasi; and’ 
the. age and relation from the lord of the lagna. 
Notes | : 
First, from the navamsa the object should be classified as Dhatu, 
Moola or Jiva vide infra. From the rasi the colour of the object 
should be divined (vide Brihad Jataka, Chap. |, Verse 20). Its relative 
size has to be judged from the navamsa-lagna as: short ones— 
' Aquarius, Pisces, Aries and. Taurus; medium—Gemini, Cancer, 
Sagittarius and Capricorn; long ones—Leo, Scorpio, Vitgo and 
Libra. Short ones include circular objects too. When the navamsa is 
strong, the object is strong and when weak, it is brittle or full of holes; 
when the concerned planet is debilitated or combust, almost lost. The 
_thief should be described by the Drekkhana (vide Brihad Jataka. 
Chap. 27) or Saravali, etc. The time of theft should be divined thus; if 
the lagna be Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Sagittarius or 
Capricorn, it was at night. If any other, during daytime. The direction 
in which the object is taken should be decided by the sign. The place 
where it is hidden, placed or stored is as follows: Aries — promenade; 
Taurus — cattle shed; Gemini — auditorium or theatre or battlefield; - 
Cancer — near water; Leo — forest region; Virgo — near harbour; 
Libra — in a shop; Scorpio — in holes; Sagittarius — in temple 
surroundings; Capricorn — near water; Aquarius — in artistic 
environs or storeroom; Pisces — near water. - 
The age and caste of the thief or person lost should be detected from 
the lagna lord thus: if Moon — child; Mars — above four years; 
Mercury — five to twelve years old; Venus — young person up to 
,twenty-three, Jupiter — middle aged; the Sun — elderly; Saturn — - 
‘aged. Jupiter and Venus — Brahmin; Mars and Sun— Kshatriya; the 
Moon — Vaisya;- Mercury — Sudra; Saturn — others. Relation by 
karaka. 


Prsrerena: AHH: AAT: | 


49 


- Thus’ ends Misrakaadhyaya of Shatpanchasika written 
Prithuyasas, son of Varahamihira. 


Model Questions 
Verses 
1. My wife is expecting a child; will it be a boy or girl? 
Will my boy get married soon? . 
Will my daughter get married early? 
2... Will I get my daughter married early?’ 
3 & 4. Will it rain today being the rainy season? 


5. Do you think that my wife would by now have delivered? 


If so, would it be a boy or girl? 


by 


I have come to ask you something about a member of my 


family; can you identify that member? Whether the member is 


a male, female or relation? The age, etc? 
10. _ What do you think of the moral character of Mr. X? 


11. | have news of the ill-health of my brother; how is he“now? 
12. Ihave no news of my father who has gone overseas; can you tell 


me where he is now? ~ 


13. Something is missing from my house; can you enlighten me 


about it? Who has stolen it and where it is now? 


