Astrology 


0 
Professions 


Col. A.K. Gour 


Vani Publications 


About the Author 


it is my great privilege to write about Col. A.K. Gqur who is a senior 
faculty in Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan, teaching Astrology to large number of 
senior students as well as researchers since long. His method and ability 
to teach is phenomenally of avery high order. While he is proficient in all 
branches of Astrology, his special forte is ‘Profession’ in which he excels. 
He is an able and a popular teacher with a great style of teaching-as also 
giving accurate prediction with great analytical skill. He has derived his 
abilities not only from deep study, knowledge and sound judgement but 
also from his great faith in religion and higher values of life. 

Col. Gour has done a great service to the student community by 
taking a keen interest in not teaching astrology but in upliftment of their 
moral values by inculcating right behaviour and following prescribed 
religious traditions. This moral fiber and faith in God has helped him make 
him a great astrologer. There are very few like him: who are totally 
dedicated to higher values that Astrology represents. What makes him 
still greater is the fact that inspite of his profound ability as a sound 
astrologer he has kept himself aloof from following run of the mill method 
of taking financial advantage of it and making astrolagy commercial and 
cheap. 

l am sure that this present book, ‘Astrology of Professions’ will be 
a valuable and masterly contribution to the subject and would be as popular 
and successful as his earlier books had been. 


M.S. Menta 

LES. (Retd) 

C- 160, GK-1, 

New Delhi- 110048 


e 


OMPNRHEFBNHH~SWAONAWAWD = 


NI ND 
- 9° 


Contents 


waqur (Samar Dan) i teccivsasasssesectacadacedoccanctens seks Goa chatnuansivaetie sec aeameeadtcnt 4 
PABOUE CE AUTOR sco saci ccsee cea tics fosdeac eet he cate cats Guat adeeelaeuiaasadeuetetnnseh 5 
PEACE oa catuct sbaicctoees abun cas deeseos speeekes ease kc aatadscd Gucci uatas eae eta acaewineetas 7 
DEHOOUCTION siekesieicec chelate tine ccbecteten cad vecteatcasconcuendneterneaterbadiaysatawcaieweees 9 


Professions — A general Approach .........csccesssccsseseescesnececereeescecceessoes UL 
Educational Counselling .............. Sint vise tad wasebden touevumscuanqunaes nee vauestvaeus 33 
Self Employment or Service ........ssccscsessssesectesssesersssssnesesesesssasereacseesees 46 
Whe First Salaty cscs neiiesca la iel ane Gain eta waseiel 


Periods of Rise in Profession ............ astaeeaige ry aselaseiieneays Meotiety OP 
Professional Distress asctacccteeyeccars sash ceeaisetoeivtentoewoacsaesttaaeetnvenGs. OF 
Profession - Focussed Analysis ............:.sccssssesseees eahtocateuamianeess 109 
Doctors ......... side phcasiaccen chines cata edudddapneesaaceseuteareioacdid Saduaveiasveese 116 
PAW VOMS) ores Aa sictawelatsc esses seoSAR eas dese Saghdee tp tadeasaadeis lcaeincigasse 131 
WIS: EBINGOTS cece desc sts saxcdeestdacanaebcriveddeatetdastancedsaeniaeceiadtyeness sagaanees - 144 
The Steel Frame (Bureaucrats) .......cccsscscsessctsssssseceeccsesecesssenensessorea 156 
Chartered Accountants iss sacstacseccssecencen teas danivcentuiseaeatesetectsvendenintoane 164 
Wie: JOU MALS ES ssi ciscsuyestis. Seetcestcnczebacannanaesecscacdetenecturucsromedicammaaaeabs 17 
MELE VISION  PEFSOMS sso: Sdessecebecees eases cnesesss saps venuenducvabsecnuastlaupeeataaedunsve 179 
The: Fashion: TechnGlogists cis jcicssxc.cstscocs tari iniaeuerd a tlaassipes 186 
PIOGEL ManaGeMent stidics eect tehteout canteen cctbianie terendatainiatestaeey arena: 194 
Computer Professionals: «3: :sscissacsesssacesstecsscvtenaisdetpeeatstnasseasnapesuerucs 202 
Books by Vani PUBICAatONS 55.62.c25<5aicdaxsbencpstadgcidecdacsvecks pedoseeosdasecensnes 218 


Preface 


Need exists in the age in which we live all over the world, particularly 
in India, to guide young men and women in the choice of their educational 
and professional patterns. 

That this is done best through astrology, Hindu jyotish, is the one 
fact which will get established in the course of few more years. 
Where an educational psychologist begins to meander through many 
possibilities anc: ends with some hit or miss successes and failures, the 
astrologer is on a more certain ground. {| have guided so many students 
in India, particularly in Delhi in the choice of their educational options. So 
many have benefitted. Jt was for this reason that ] got produced aresearch. 
by students and published it in the Journal of Astrology. But there is a 
constant need for updating these researches to be of immense use for 
the large numbers of students seeking proper careers in India where the 
percentage of literacy has grown enormously and we have the largest 
pool of technocrats in the world. 

The emphasis having shifted from humanities to technical subjects, 
the astrologer must know the fine distinctions that exist between one 
technical profession and another. It is for this reason that J have been 
telling my students not to use the word ‘malefics’ which become technical 
planets and ‘benefics’ which become non-technica) planets. Then 
combined with rashis which are again technical and non-technical, the 
combination of planets influencing the house of education gives rich 
indication, many times very specifically, about the type of education one 


“I 


Preface Astrology of Professions 


is likely to have. As many as twenty five students had presented their 
cas® studies on education in the convocation of October 2003. 

Col. Gour’s attempt in this book is the first major composite attempt 
by an astrologer to cover these aspects, the path from education to career 
with a link between the two. Naturally, the career patterns that emerge 
out are of various types: 

1. Professional education leading to specific professions only like that 
of a doctor, engineer, chartered accountant etc. 

2. ‘Certified professions to enter which one has to have the prescribed 
educational qualification like that of a lawyer. But then there are 
many who have legal! qualifications but not practising as lawyers. 

3. Bureacratic careers do not depend on any specific education patterns 
but on specified educational qualifications to open the door to 
competetive examination like the Indian Administrative Service. 

4. And there are techno-bureacratic professions in which a very specific 
qualification alone opens the opportunity to enter a service like ofa 
member of the Indian Engineering Service. 

Col. Gour being aware of such complexities has neatly opened some 
lines of analysis which must lead a keen student on to further research. 

Such a good research of such rich composite nature as Col. Gour 
presents in this book gives you the lines along which future research 
should be doné and should progress. 

The book is well structured, well iHustrated and well explained. 
And it is a very timely, very helpful, very useful book. 

As usual it once again establishes the fact that in producing world’s 
best researches in astrology, the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan, Delhi, is the 
foremost in the world and unparalled and unequalled. And Col. Gour is 
the second seniormost member of the teaching faculty of the Institute of 
Astrology here. : 


K.N. Rao 
26 January 2004 
Vasant Panchami 


Introduction 


Varahmihir in his monumental creation the “Brihat Jataka” has 
delineated Profession in four Shlokas in the Chapter called the “Karamjeevi 
Adhyaya”. Time is a consumer of all the things, it changes and we, keeping 
pace with times, change with it. Today earning of a livelinood has become 
the focus of our existence. Profession takes the centre stage in any 
astrological exposition. 

This book examines the Profession in the manner as laid out in the 
succeeding paragraphs. 

The commencement of any astrological exploration has, of necessity, 
to be anchored to the classical texts. It of course needs to be modified in 
the light of changing times and in conformity with the information 
explosion that is sweeping the world of today. The opening chapter gleans 
the classical texts, collates the relevant data and presents it in an easily 
understandable form. This chapter also has the summary of the views on 
this subject of Professions by the doyens of astrology like my mentor 
K.N.Rao, Shri Hardeo Sharma and Dr B.V. Raman. Relevant combinations 
duly modified to conform to the modern world round up this rather long 
but important chapter. 

The book then tackles education, the womb where profession is. 
conceived nurtured and delivered. Educational inclinations and their likely 
fructification, if properly analysed, lead to a coherent and justifiable 
assessment of the most suitable profession(s). 

A person wishes to know whether he should seek his future in an 


introduction Astrology of Professions 


environment of service or should he prepare for a living by self occupa- 
tion. Astrological guidelines to sort out this dilemma are given and ex- 
plained with the help of suitable examples. An easy to way to find out the 
time of the earning of the First Salary is then given. 

The periods of rise in the Profession and those that cause distress 
are tackled next. The astrological discussion is supported by examples. 
This is followed by an expose of the technique of analysing a horoscope 
for the purpose of determining the likely profession. 

The book then examines ten different professions. The Doctors, the 
Lawyers, the Engineers, the Bureaucrats, and the CAs are all here. The 
modern professions of the Television persons, the Fashion technologists, 
the Computer professionals along with the Hotel Management Execu- 
tives and the Journos round up the ten professions. 

This book has had a very long gestation period. It would still have 
been resting in the womb of Time had it not been for the persistent de- 
mands of the students. Air Commodore Chandan Ghosh not only spear 
headed the students demand but also actively participated fn its prepara- 
tion and finalisation. He is a computer wizard, has a razor sharp mind his 
constant prodding is instrumental in the finalisation of this book. Scores 
of people comprising my colleagues, the research students and those 
that interacted with me in the classes deserve the credit. Vishal Grover, 
Pretty and Avinash did the proof reading and I thank them. I aiso thank 
my Guru K.N.Rao for teaching astrology to me to the level where | am 
able to teach and to write, the book would have achieved its aim if it 
satisfies him. 


Col. A.K. Gour 

26 January 2004 

Magh Shukla (Vasant) Panchami 
118 Uday Park 

New Delhi 


The financial support given by “the Society for Vedic Research 
and Practices” for the reproduction of this piece of research with evidences 
supporting the researches is duly acknowledged and appreciated. 


Col. A.K. Gour 


10 


Professions 
A general Approach 


quiitara + aged, a ule are wafer am 
Aa: TRAN, Ys UC eT afl 
Things do not become good just because they are old; nor 
does a thing become good because it is new. The learned 
examine, each on ment prior to accepting or rejecting, the illiterate 
depend on the opinion of others. 

The world has shrunk; it is now very appropriately called “Global 
Village." In an apparent attempt at countering the shrinking world the 
professions have expanded phenomenally. The exponential growth of 
Info Tech field fuelled by the ever increasing sophistication, increasing 
memory and dizzying advance in the speed of the computer has 
thrown up a plethora of professions with sky-high salaries to the 
technical and semi-technical professionals. Pure non-technical jobs of 
suppliers of the peripherals have also been created. Innovativeness has 
also fuelled the unprecedented growth in the field of professions. Event 
management is one such area symbolizing the innovativeness; all its 
needs is an excuse to have a party and an event manager is at hand to 
do it for you; professionally. 

The multiplicity, the sheer range, reach and the numbers of 
proliferating professions have given a wakeup call to the astrologers. 
An astrologer, if ever, needs to come up to the qualities of an 
astrotoger laid down by the venerable Parashara Rishi. The qualities 
afe:- 

"Ganiteshu Praveeno Yeh Shabdashastra Kritshramah, 

Nyayavid, Buddhiman, Deshdikkalagyo, Jitendriya 


41 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


Oohapoh Patur, Hora Skanda Shravan Sammtah, 

Maitreya Satyam Yati Tasya Vakyam na Sanshayah." 

{a} Mathematical ability (Ganiteshu Praveeno) 

(b) Diligent linguist (Shabdashastra Kritshramah) 

(c) Judicial Balance (Nyayavid} 

(d) Learned, intelligent and efficient (Buddhiman) 

(e) All round Knowledge (Deshdikkalagyo) 

(f) Moral Uprightness (Jitendriya) 

(g) Ooha Poh Patu (lateral thinking, power to analyse an issue from 
various angles) 

(h) Knowledge of Astrology (Hora Skanda Shravan Sammtah) 

An astrologer can deal with the bewildering array of professions 
if he keeps the qualities laid down by Rishi Parashara in view. It is now 
essential that any one dealing with professions is particularly adept at 
“ooha-Poh Patu" the quality that grants one the ability to think laterally 
and derive new ways so that a problem is analysed threadbare from all 
possible angle&’ and aspects. Lateral thinking is "Ooha-Poh-Patus" gift. 
It is of course clearly understood that the greater the al! round 
knowledge that an astrologer has the better would be his application 
of the astrological principles. A “Buddhiman" “Deshdikkalagyo" 
astrologer is needed to tackle the complex professional challenges. 

In this chapter the classical view of professions as expounded by 
venerable Varahmihir in Brihat Jataka is being explained. An exposition 
of professions by the puritanica] Hardeo Sharma, the farmous publisher 
of respected Vishwa Vijay Panchang and Sh. K.N. Rao’s pithy 
modernization is being explained. The role of planets in the field of 
professions, a few of the possible hundreds of plantary combinations, 
the role of rashis, tatwas and the houses is also being given. A warning 
is in order, these roles of planets, rashis, tatwas, houses are general 
and are of very little use without the actual horoscope. 


Classics - The "Brihat Jataka" by Varahmihir 

In Brihat Jataka “Karamjeevi' Adhyaya is a short chapter. It is the 
shortest in the book. This underscores the importance that was given 
to profession in Varahamihiric times. It contains just four shlokas. This 
is what we have to build on. Varahamihir linked the plantets and the 
professions as given in the next page. 


Astrology of Professions Professions - A general Poe 


Classics - The “Brihat Jataka” b Varahmihir 
Planets Professions Remarks 


Some Honourable employment, either under the state or 
under some public body, kings, emperors, all titled 
appointments under the crown, jewellers, goldsmiths, 
owners of woollen mills, or workers there, ministers or 
men employed in mints 


Sailors, marines, navigators, fishermen, watermen, 
boatmen, dealers in pearls, those working in pearl 
fisheries, midwives, nurses etc. 


All Kinds of military men, doctors, physicians, chemists, 
butchers, barbers, engine drivers, generally all workers in 
iron, steel or fire fighting. 


| 
od 
Mercury | Literary authors, translators, writers, accountants, 
astrologers, schaol masters, mathematicians, poets, 
lawyers, book sellers, printers, postmen. 


Jupiter Judges, priests, learned men, senators, preachers, 
ministers, bankers 

Venus Deaters in gold, ruby, musicians, confectioners, 
embroiders, painters, jewellers, maid servants 


,, Saturn Shoe makers, scavengers, undertakers, gardeners, 
miners, and bricklayers. 


Varahmihir also laid down the likely source of the acquisition of 
wealth by a person according to the occupation of 10th house by a 
planet. 

Sl. No Planet occupying Source of Income 
The 10th house. 


4. Sun Father 
2. Moon Mother 
3: Mars A foe 

4. Mercury A friend 
o: Jupiter Brother 
6. Venus Wife 

ie Saturn Servants 


The Navamsha 

The profession influencing planet would be the one that rules the 
Navamsha occupied by the lord of the 10th house in the Natal chart. 
Varahmihir also laid down that one should reckon [Oth house from the 
Ascendant or the Moon or the Sun whichever of the three is stronger. 


a 


13 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


Bhattopala commenting on the Varahmihiric succinct and meaningful 
brief contained in just four short sholkas was of the opinion that the 
10th ford from lagna or the Moon or the Sun whoever is stronger, the 
planets that are placed in this, the strongest 10th house, the lord of the 
Navamsha where the 10th lord is placed ait contribute to the profession 
of an individual. They keep becoming a source of income when so 
desired by the Dasha and Transit. Varahmihir also said that if benefics 
occupy the 11th, ist ahd the 2nd house the jatak earns in many ways. 

This Varahmihirira exposition has been repeated in many classics, 
with minor variations. This is the bedrock of all profession related 
examinations. 10th H/L, planets placed in 10H, planets in PAC relation 
with the 10th House and the Lord of the Navamsha where the 10L is 
placed are the planets that are the potential source of income as and 
when they are promoted to do so by the Dasha/Transit. 

Sri K.N. Rao gave the following as the determinants of profession 
for further research and application:- 


Pianete and Profession 


[Planets] Liberal |__ Semi-Technical 


Sun Pol Science Technical Statistical |Physics, Actuary 
| Maths Works 


Music, Fine Arts {Para Medical Chemistry, Medicat 
Logic related 


Mercury | Accountancy Semi tech Accounts, {Higher Accountancy 
Journalism, 
Astrology 


Jupiter {Vedantic, Classical | Philosophy, Management 
Knowledge, Psychology 
{Literature 


Painting __ | Tourism }Graphics, Engineering 
Labour Law, Law Geology 


Rahu |Researh, Psycho Pilot, Air Hostess Space Engineer _ 


analytical work 
Ketu Language Language Specialist | Meteorologist, 
Computer 


Astrology of Professions Professions - A general Approach 


Sh. Hardeo Sharma Trivedi the maker of Vishwa Vijay Panchanga, 
a totally puritanical traditional astrologer, worked on and delineated 
some points on profession and earnings. K.N. Rao has elaborated these 
in the Journal of Astrology’s Apr-June issue. 

Sh. Hardeo Sharma Trivedi called the lord of the Navamsha where 
the 1OL of the Natal chart was placed as the key planet. The professions 
as governed by this key planet are as under:- 


SI. Key Profession 
No. Planet 
1. Sun Sale Purchase of Grass, Water, Wool, Disputes, 


Medicines, Grains, Juices, Gold, Jeweller or the Holy 
work of initiation of mantras or Sports. 


2. Moon Royalty, Women, Clothes, Water products, 
Entertainment, Products of earth, Clay, Farming, 
Agriculture 

3. Mars War/fight, Promoting quarrels, Metals, Contractors, 


Gambling, Argumentative, Thieving. 
4. Mercury Poetry, Priestly work, Classical learning, Vedanta or 
Philosophical wisdom, Sculptor, Architecture 


5. Jupiter Legal, Retigious preaching, Classical and retigious 
learning, Religious worship, Teaching, Service to 
Brahmins 

6. Venus __ Horses, Vehicles, Jewels, Gold, Curd, Butter Milk, 


Cooked Rice, Jaggery, Salt, Amorous occupation 
caused by women 
7. Saturn Through provoking opposition, Communications, 

Transport, Low quality sculpture, Slaughter, Carrying of 
loads, wood. 

Please note the absence of Rahu and Ketu. In the technological 

ptofessional world of today this is a serious shortcoming and 

needs to be addressed. 


The Planets and the Professions 
The planets rule the professions as under:- 


The Sun 

The Sun indicates those in authority, rulers, dignitaries, 
government, goldsmith, jewellers, financiers, and occupations involving 
children, circus-trainers, theatre-owners and managers. 


18 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


The Moon 

The Moon governs travelling and all travelling requisites, sailors, 
nurses, liquor dealers, laundry owners, gardeners, confectioners and 
bakers, housekeepers, dairy owners, obstetricians, healing plants, 
(herbal products), catering, eating places, waiters, fishermen, fisheries 
and fish farmers. 


Mars 

Mars signifies firemen, metallurgists, armament factories, machine 
tools, soldiers, police, surgeons, dentists, barbers, cooks, hardware 
goods, locksmiths, boxes, butchers, chemists and druggists. 


Mercury 

Mercury rules documentation and recording and ali jobs 
connected with any work, teaching, writing, clerks, accountants, book- 
keepers, postal men, bus drivers and train employees,. architects, 
correspondents, stenographers, interpreters, messengers, reporters, 
radio and other communication media, stationeries, printing and 
telephone operators, 


jupiter 

Jupiter rules counsellors, lawyers, lecturers, publishers, writers, 
astrologers, travel agents, priests and temple trustees and officials, 
cashiers, philosophers, litterateurs, grocers, and tobacconists. 


Venus 

Venus fefers to poets, artists, cinema artistes, dancers, singers, 
musicians, instrumentalists, hat and dress dealers and makers, silks and 
expensive textiles, perfumeries, cosmeticians, beauticians, entertainers 
of all kinds, dealers in furnishings, furniture makers, coffee planters, tea 
estate owners, fancy articles, ladies articles objects of art and fashion, 
social secretaries, photography, engravers, cartoonists, flower sellers, 
embroiderers, scent makers, make up artists, beauty partours, hair 
Stylists. 


Saturn 

Saturn [Indicates miners, coal and fuel dealers of every kind, petrol, 
real estate business, craftsmen, plumbers, architects, cemetery 
excavators, building contractors, leather goods, hides, ice-making, time 
pieces, coffin and tomb makers, farm and factory labour, watchmen, 
undertakers, priests, monks, nuns, eunuchs, and philosophers. 


a 


16 


Astrology of Professions Professions - A general Approach 


Rahu 

Rahu governs space, pilots, aviation, radio, TV. wireless, 
telephone, electricity, poison, drugs, diplomacy, air hostesses, 
management experts, event managers, travel and tourism operators. 


Ketu 
Ketu indicates secret missions or service, tricky jobs, occultists, 
foreign languages, computers, engineers, ashram workers. 


Nakshatra ruled professions from Ohruva Naadi 

The professions attributed to a Nakshatra need to be seen in 
modem day context. This has been done to the extent possible. The 
Constellations ruling over the professions are as under:- 


Ashwini 

Commander of the Army, Horse-stealer, Physician, Servant, Horse 
rider, Trader, Hunter, Handsome stable keeper, (Wild life Conservators, 
Safari organizers, Uniformed services). 


Bharani 

Blood and flesh, cruel minded, interested in killing, binding 
beating, born of low pedigree, lacking Satwik quality. (Prison 
employees Gangsters) 


Krittika 

White flowers, sacrificial prayers, pundits versed in mantras and 
sutras, commentators of sastras, gold miners, barbers, brahmins, 
potters, purohits and astrologers. 


Rohini 
Merchant, king, yogis, bullock cart-driver, watery animals, lovely 


maidens, agriculturists. (zoo employees, fashion industry workers, 
Models). 


Mrigashira 

Sweet smelling articles, garments, products from watery atfeas, 
flowels, mangoes, sapphire and other stone, hunters in forest, birds 
and animals, alcohol brewers, lechers, postmen. 


17 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


Aridra 

Killing, lying, seeking other women, thief, animal handler, back 
biters, creating enmity between friends, chanting evi] mantras and 
ostracizing ghosts and devils. 


Punarvasu 
Truth speaking. of good parentage, pure and _ charitable, 
handsome, intelligent, famous, rich, merchant, worker, potter, etc. 


Pushyami 
Wheat, rice, sugarcane, forest-products, minister, king, water- 
carrier, fishermen, good people, yoga performers etc. 


Asiesha 
Skilled artisans, roots, fruits, worms, reptiles, poison, interested in 
grasping others property, ayurveda, and sorcerer. 


Magha 
Riches, big villages, rice, mountain dwellers, merchant, flesh- 
eater, women-hater. 


Poorva Phalguni 
Dancer, actor, charmer of women and public, musician, painter, 
dealing in small exchange business, interested in fried things, salt, 
honey. 
~ 


Uttara Phalguni 

Soft-natured, uninterested in other things, legal brain, charitable, 
vedic studies, wealth, rice and other grains, loyal to king and 
interested in work. 


Hasta 
Thief, elephant, chariot rider, leader of mahouts or trainer of 
“mahouts', painter, share brokers, interested in Sastras. 


Chitra 
House decorator, connoisseur of diamonds and precious stones, 
incense and scent maker, mathematical expert, weaver (jwellers). 


Astrology of Professians Professions - A general Approach 


Swati 
Bird, deer, Horse, grains, beans merchants, unsteady friends, 
weak frail body. (ornithologists, fish farms) 


Visakha 

Trees Jaden with red flowers and fruits, seasame, green gram, 
black gram and Bengal gram, devotion to Agni and_ Indra. 
(Horticulturists, gardners, farmers, and agro industry employees). 


Anuradha 

Strong in body, leader among men, devoted to Sachus, 
interested in sports, in’ foreign visits and vehicles, Sadhus (Ashram 
workers, Pilgrim tour operators, Pandas). 


Jyestha 

Heroes in battles, blessed with wealth, respect and family . 
prestige, grasping other's property, commanders interested in 
defeating rivals. (Police, Para Military services). 


Moola 
Medicine, coctors, leader of a gang, flower-root-or-fruit vendors, 
seeds, wealthy persons. (Doctors, Paramedical persons) 


Poorvashadha 
Fishermen, Truth-speaker, uninterested in others property, rich 
men, dam builder, living by any business connected with water. 


Uttarashadha 

elephant mahout, wrestler, elephants, horses, devotee to 
goddess, planet, expert in battles, lover of enjoyment, pleasure. 
(Automobile Industry) 


Srovana 

Proficiency in cheating, perseverance, good worker, enthusiastic 
person, interested in Dharma, truth lover, Bhagavata. (Pundits and 
Pracharaks) 


Dhanishtha 


Eunuch, unsteady in friendship, lack of personality, or impersonal 
in nature, chartiable, wealthy, attached to women, control over senses. 


19 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


Satabhisha 

Connected with ropes and nets-catching doing menial work, cruel 
activities, bereft of Drama, disinterested in others, boxing, wrestling 
etc. 


Purvabhadrapada 
Thief, cow herd, cruel, irreligious, self centrered, mean minded, 
etc. 


Uttarabhadrapada 
Brahmin, performing Tapas, Yagna, Dharma anci Daanam, wealthy, 
ascetic minded, kings, vedic study. (Acharyas, Gurus). 


Revati 

Water-growing plants, fruits, flowers, salt, conch, precious jewels 
and stones, pearls, lotus, sailors, merchants. 

The Nakshatra (stars) Poorvabhadra, Krittika, refer to Brahmins. 
Pushyami, Uttara, Uttarashadha and Uttarbhadrapad refer to Kshatriyas. 
Anuradha, Revati, Makha and Rohini refer to Vaishyas. Punarvasu, 
Hasta, Abhijit and Aswini to the trading classes. 

Aridra, Swati, Moola and Satabhisha are cruel Nakshatras. 
Mrigashira, Jyeshtha, Chitra, Dhanishtha denote labourers. Asfesha, 
Visakha, Sravana, Bharani denote Chandala/violent group. 


The Rashis (Signs) and the profession 

Person in whose horoscope a rashi is strong would have a 
profession signified by that rashi. A strong rashi, classically, is the one 
that conforms to this shloka:- 


a at wa: wafaget at a dread wre wea gfe 


Any sign that has the support of its lord is strong. The support 
could be placement or aspect to that house. Benefics in or aspecting a 
sign also make it strong. A sign having benefics either side of it also 
gains strength. Dr. B.V. Raman has given the profession of natives 
having a horoscope with a strong rashi in 10° House/Lagna as under:- 


Aries 

Persons born with Aries strong, fare well in careers that require 
enterprises, dynamism and energy. They are suited for jobs requiring 
exploration and courage and do well as soldiers, policernen, army 


20 


Astrology of Professions Professions - A ¢e::eral Approach 


workers, scientists, engineers, dentists, surgeons, and riechanics. Since 
Aries rules the head, as surgeons they exhibit skill ‘#brain surgery. 

If Mercury and jupiter are strongly disposed, the native emerges 
as a powerful, journalist or lawyer-fighting for a: cause. Venus strong 
makes the Aries-native a dashing executive or salesmen. Mars strong 
gives industrial workers, hunters, explorers and officers of law. If the 
Sun were strong, the native would be an industrialist, politician or 
owner of a timber-yard or lumberyard. Saturn and Aries strong would 
give trade unionists. 


Taurus 

Person with this sign strong are practical people with dogged 
determination and perseverance. Since it is the second sign of the 
zodiac, bankers, cashiers, capitalists. Finanders and moneylenders are 
indicated. Cosmetics, jewellery, articles of fashion come under this sign. 
Taurus strong natives make good advertising and publicity agents. They 
can be good throat specialists and singers. Venus strong would give 
singers. Mercury-Moon-Venus would give composers, acousticians and 
auditions experts. Mars and Moon refer to agriculturists. 


Gemini 

Person with strong Gemini make good workers in all areas of 
communication. They fare well as language experts, interpreters, sales 
agents, translators, reporters, writers, and researchers. If the Sun were 
strong, they gain excellence in engineering branches and in analytical 
studies of law and education. Since Mercury is the planet of trade also, 
they do well as auditors, accountants and similar jobs. It also gives 
mathematicians and writers. [f Mercury were predominatnt, fiction- 
writers and Jupiter strong would give poetic abilities. If Mercury and 
Jupiter were involved, there would be serious writing history, 
biographies, essays: Mercury, Mars and Jupiter with Gemini give 
proficiency in feature writing, news reporting and editing. 


Cancer 

Cancer strong in a chart indicates biology, botany, zoology, 
marine life, zoo keeping, dairy-farming, bee keeping and trade in 
honey, fish etc. Such natives make good housekeepers and can 
therefore work as matrons, housewives, hotel-superintendents, and 
similar jobs. They also make kind nurses and gentle doctors. Since 
Cancer is a domestic sign, if the Moon, Venus and Mars are involved 
success is likely in hotel running, snack, bars, bakery and confectionery 


21 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


business, ice-cream Parlours etc. If Cancer is afflicted, then person will 
have vocation connected with wines and breweries. They make good 
laundrymen and sailors since Cancer is watery sign. [f Saturn, Mercury 
or Jupiter is involved, the native tends to be good at archaeology, 
history, museum-work, and teaching. The Moon and Jupiter would give 
teachers, social workers and institutional workers. The Sun in cancer 
with Moon and Jupiter give philanthropists. 


Leo 

Leo being a utopian royal sign, Leo-strong natives fare well in jobs 
of authority and power. They make good executives, administrators 
and generally do well as the boss. They are fitted for jobs in 
administrative cadres and work well in the stock exchange, investment 
business, jewelry and gold, circus training, as forest officers, film and 
drama directors, foremen. Leo has a special propensity for the 
doctoring line, drugs and chemicals. The Sun and Mars predominant. 
give political leaders and workers while the Sun and Venus give 
ambassadors, diplomats and Foreign Service requiring polish and 
sophistication. 


Virgo 

Virgo natives have an eye for detail. They make good teachers, 
manicurists, retail! shop keepers, bus drivers, clerks, receptionist 
secretaries, postal employees, bus drivers and conductors, book binder, 
stenographers, interpreters, translators, librarians, radio and televisions 
announcers, paper dealers, handwriting and fingerprint experts, 
notaries public, computer operators, writers, editors, reporters, 
physiologist and psychiatrists, healers, doctors, explorers, detectives. 
They do well in jobs requiring intelligence and efficiency. Mercury and 
Virgo give bookkeepers, statisticians, cashiers, and bank clerks, Saturn 
related to Virgo indicates typist, museum, curators and book keepers 
while the Sun has to do with auditors, tax officers and chartered 
accountants. Venus governs filing clerks, sales girls or salesmen and 
librarians. 


Libra 

Libra being the sign of the balance, natives with this sign strong 
make good management consultants, lawyers, judges, solicitors, 
logicians and officers of law, diplomats and public relations officers, 
since it is ruled by Venus, it gives singers, actors, beauticians, hair- 
dressers, fashion-models, interior decorators and furniture-makers, 


22 


Astrology of Professions Professions - A cenerat Approach 


perfume manufacturers, social workers, photographers, tea-shop and 
coffee-bar owners, snack and restaurant keepers and all similar trades, 
Venus powerful with Rahu and the Moon would give artists, sculptors, 
cinema artistes and models. If Libra and Saturn and Venus figures in 
strength; cartoonists, cameramen, tailor, dress designers and make up 
assistants would be the result. Mars, Rahu, Venus make the native work 
in cabaret shows, gambling casinos and similar haunts of sin and 
pleasure. 


Scorpio 

Being a mystic sign, Scorpio produces mystics, philosophers, 
astrologers and occuitists. Being secretive, detectives and clever 
criminals also come under this sign, Nurses, chemists, doctors, 
explorers, geographers, barbers, dentists, mechanics, men of the armed 
and police-force, navigators, coffin-makers, undertakers, life-insurance 
agents and business and embalmers come under this sign. If Mars is 
strong, then railway and tram workers, police and army personnel, 
home guards, telephone operators and telegraphers are indicated. The 
Moon and Scorpio would give pearl divers, dealers in seafood’s, corals, 
poisons, drugs and chemicals. The Sun strong would indicate an 
executive job in these callings. 


Sagittarius 

Sagittarius natives are bold and practical. They do well in sports, 
horse training, as jockeys, stewards, preachers, freedom fighters, 
advocates for any cause, organizers, financiers, gamblers, leather- 
dealers, and experts, shoe and footwear makers or dealers. Jupiter and 
Mercury strong would give rise to teachers, religious reformers, and 
theologians. Saturn, Mercury and Jupiter would indicate lawyers, judges 
magistrates and philosophers. 


Capricorn 

This sign makes native hard working and able. Agriculture, 
mining, forest products, farming, horticulture, mineralogy and geology, 
suit such natives well. They have great organizing capacities and make 
good conveners and secretaries. Executive and political posts requiring : 
patience and plodding come under Capricorn. Saturn strong makes for 
bankers, merchants and agriculturists. Mars makes mineralogists, 
geologists and forest officers. 


23 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


Aquarius 

Natives with Aquarius strong in the chart are usually advisers of 
some sort technical, legal, social or just friendly. All innovative and 
unusual calling come under this sign. Workers in electricity, atomic 
powers, and computer technology come under Aquarius. Such natives 
are ingenious and become inventors if Mercury is strong. They make 
good astrologers, telepathists and hypnottsts. Neurologists, ‘X’-ray 
workers and dealers in medical appliances come under this sign. They 
can succeed in nature-cure therapy. Aquarius strong produces great 
philosophers also. 


Pisces ; 

Doctors, surgeons, nurses, monks, jailors, and prison-workers, 
sanatorium workers, convent-runners come under this sign. Work 
requiring imagination suits such natives. Film making, script writing, 
composing, choreography. social work, work in orphanages, museum, 
library, club and similar bodies and group activity comes easily to 
natives with strong Pisces. They make good musicians, inspired poets 
and occult writers, travel agents, petrol and oil dealers, sea-produce 
dealers, owners of amusement centers, anesthetists, coast guards, 
private investigators and spirit mediums. Venus strong produces 
painters and actors. 


Signs indicating profession 

In any horoscope if 5 or more planets are in moveable, fixed or 
dual signs they tend to show the tendencies of that particular group. 
The signs indicate profession as under:- 


Movable sign 

Such person rarely stay in one place, are fond of travelling, have 
ambition for name, fame and fortune. These persons are cruel, keep 
’ shifting from one place to other place for their livelihood and are happy 
travellers. Have an ability to take quick decision and have a greater 
adaptability. The person is also intellectually “mobile” and has a open 
mind and ready to do anything for himself and for his family. But on 
negative side, such person has an_ ever-changing nature, 
indecisiveness. a fickle mind, untrustworthiness and inability to persist 
with one thing. Such people undergo continuous struggle and 
genetally clo not succeed in building any fixed assets. Sales persons, 
Market advisors, Managers come under this. 


Astrotogy of Professions Professions - A general Aoproach 


Fixed Sign 

People are proud, learned, wealthy, liked by the ruler, famous, of 
a stable nature, tend to stay in one place for a longer time develop 
contacts and acquire property. Ideal for research work. 


Dual Sign 

People belonging to this category are intellectuals. They are 
clever, of fluctuating wealth and fond of their near and dear ones, 
On the negative sides, such persons have fickle mind, a tendency to 
lose opportunities, leading to disappointment and dejection. : 


Professions dictated by Tatwas 

The tatwas influence profession in proportion to the number of 
planets posited in their sign. Most of the planets (5 or more) in a tatwa 
would produce professions as under:- 


Agni Tatva 
Automobile engineers, Surgeons, Steel and Iron _ industries, 
Railway engineers, Politicians, Engineers, trade union activists. 


Bhu Tatva 

This tatwa denotes administrative skill, civil service, property, 
dealing, construction, agriculture, furniture related work, food, mining 
or a work related the earth, like earth moving machinery or stucly of soil 
samples. 


Vayu Tatwa 
This tatwa denotes, intellectual professions like philosophers, 
writers, scientists, advisors, lecturers, pilots, lawyers, and astrologers. 


jal Tatwa 

This tatwa indicates work connected with liquids like dairy 
farming, chemicals, drugs, shipping, merchant navy, marine engineers, 
oil related work, fishing, teachers. 

Effect of a Rashi in 10th house of the Natal chart and the 
Navamsha chart, as stated in Saravalii. 

Saravali lays down the following effects of a sign in the 10th house 
of the Natal Chart and the !Oth house in the Navamsha chart. 


The Natal Chart 
Profession would be as indicated below in conformity with the 


25 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


sign in the fO0th house:— 


Aries 
lf Aries in happen to be the sign in the 10th House, then person 
is very happy, being excellent in his work, he may be a CID officer, 
King may appreciate his work, the public may censure him. 


Taurus 
The person will be engaged in expensive work, kind to Sadhus, 
Brahmins, Gods, Guests and full of wisdom. 


Gemini 
It makes him ever active and concentrating on his work, taught by 
guru, famous, esteemed by the public and shining with radiance. 


Cancer 
He will be philanthropic by nature and doing public service like 
digging wells, tanks for the welfare of public. 


Leo 
Persons will be fearful, fierce and ugly, engaged in cruel worl, 
shifting from place to place. 


Virgo 
The Person will be rich but ignorant, guarding of women’s 
property, having a beautiful wife. 


Libra 
The person will be trading in many articles, will be righteous, 
legally correct and loved by Sadhus. 


Scorpio 
The person will cause injury to Brahmins, Guru, engaged in brutal) 
and criminal work and generally bad by nature. 


Sagittarious 
The person will be engaged powerfully and mentally in evil and 
thievish works but tnnocent by appearance. 


Capricorn 
The person wiil be strong, powerful, merciless, sinful and criminal 


26 


Astrojiogy of Prafesstons Professions - A general Approach 


but placed amidst relatives and vidwans. 


Aquarius 
Person will be go on pilgrimages, but may be greecty by nature, 
deceitful and engaged in harmful works. 


Pisces 
The persons will be loved by all, steady and engaged in work to 


please Brahmins and God as taught by Guru. 


The Navamsha Chart 
in the Navamsha chart the sign in the 10th house produces 
results as under:- 

1. If Aries is in the 10th house in the Navamsha chart, then the 
person will be a gardener, nurse, agriculturist, chemist, trader, 
diplomat, or a worshipper of Sun. 

2. If it is Taurus, the native will earn his livelihood by vehicles, birds, 
or animals. He will make profit by selling grain in drought areas. 

3. If the 10th house in navamsha is Gemini; he wil] be earning by 
writing, or accountancy, or by pearls, conch, shells, or working in 
ships or trading. 

4. He will excel in carpentry, engineering works, hunting, trading in 
pearls, thorns, chemical works, and touring in foreign places, if 
Cancer happens to be the 10th house in Navamsha. 

5. Leo as the 10th house in Navamsha, the person wil] gather silver, 
gold and stones, and work in farming or trading in rice. 

6. He will earn his livelihood by motor transport or rickshaw or 
goldsmith or as a painter, musicians, garment dealer, if Virgo is in 
the 10th house in the Navamsha. 

7. If the 10th Navamsha happens to be Libra, the person will be an 
astrologer, and alchemist (converting lead into gold) or 
counterfeiting coins. The native may be a trader, shopkeeper, 
selling milk products, and product from watery regions. 

8. If Scorpio sign is the 10th Navamsha; the person will acquire 
wealth from women, interested in agriculture, serving the king 
and sinful by nature. He will be working in gold and silver mines 
or trading in gold and silver or in grains. 

9. The native will be a minister, protecting forts and ramparts, 
looking after cows and horses, timber merchant, repairing 
machines. accountant or physicians, if the 10th Navamsha is 
Sagittarius. 


Professions - A generaf Approach Astrology of Professions 


10. Capricorn is the 10° Navamsha, the person will be dealing in 
pearls and corals, in gardening, or in chemical products. 

11. If Aquarius is the 10" Navamsha, the person will be engaged in 
manufacture of arms and gunpower, in thieving, serving women, 
or carrying burdens. 

12. He earns his living by weapons, gardening, horse trading, if 
Pisces happens to be the 10th Navamsha. 


Results of [0th ford in different houses 
{t is worthwhile to know this effect of 10th lord in various houses. 
This is also as per Dr. B.V. Raman. 

1. When 10th ford is in the Lagna then person rises in life by sheer 
dint of perseverance. He will be self-employed or pursue a 
profession of independence. When lagna and 10th lord combine 
in the lagna then person becomes very famous in his field of work 
and he founds a public institution and engages himself in social 
projects and if lagna ford is in 10 house then person will have 
professional success, honoured by eminent men, a_ research 
scholar or specialization in the profession which is represented by 
the lord of fagna and {0th lord. He will also get a good 
administrative or political job and will have influence in high 
circles. If dispositions are adverse in Navamsha then he will lose 
respect and will be a victim of siander and will commit sinful acts. 

2. When 10 lord is in 2"4 house it makes the person fortunate. He 
rises well in tife and makes lot of money. He may do his family 
business and develop it. If malefic afflict the 10° house then he 
will suffer losses and be responsible for winding up the family 
business. He will prosper in catering and restaurant business and 
when 2" lord is in 10th house then person wil! take up number 
of useful avocations. He may do business or to take to agriculture 
and also engage himself in philosophical lectures. Here again, the 
Nakshatra and sign held by the 2™ lord determine the exact nature 
and sources of earning. Powerful afflictions will cause harm from 
these very sources. 

3. 10 Lord in 3" house The person may have to travel constantly on 
short journey. He will be a speaker or writer or celebrity if the 10th 
lord is well placed. His brother may help him for advancing his 
career. If 10th lord is in 6th, 8th or 12th from Navamsha lagna or 
in an unfriendly Nakshatra in 3'* house then person rise in life very 
slowly and with obstructions. If 3rd lord is also afflicted then 
rivalry between the brothers may lead to reversals, obstacles etc 


28 


Astrology of Professions Professions - A general Approach 


in the sife of person and in his career, And if 3rd lord is in 10th 
House then he will gain from journeys connected with profession. 

4. If the 10th Lord is placed in 4th house the person will be a lucky 
man and highly learned in many subjects. He will be famous both 
for his learning anci generosity. If 10th lord is strong, the person 
is respected wherever he goes and receives royal favour. He may 
engage in agricultural works, dealing in properties or working for 
welfare of the people as a politician. If 4th, 9th and 10th lords are 
beneficially disposed and related ta one another, then person 
wields great authority as a president or head of a government. If 
10th lord is depressed, eclipsed, in inimical sign or afflicted by 
malefic then person will lose his lands and be forced to take up a 
life of servitude. Same thing will happen if 10th lord conjoins with 
8th lord in the 4th house in malefic Shashtyamsa. And if 4th lord 
is in 10th house then person will have political success and may 
become minister or a highly placed Govt. Servant. He will 
vanquish his enemies. and make his personality feit by the world. 
Loss of reputation is possibie if the 4th lord is afflicted. If Mercury 
happens to be lord. of 4th or 10th house lord, then there will be 
access to wealth through trade and business channels. 

5. lf 10th lord is in Sth house then person may shine well as a broker 
and engages in speculation or similar type business. Person may 
fead a simple life and doing prayers and good activities. He may 
become the head of orphanage or remand home if 10th lord is in 
6th, 8th or 12th Navamsha. 

6. With the 10th Lord placed in the 6th house the person may work 
for judiciary, prisons or hospitals. If Saturn aspects the 10th lord 
then he may have to work all his life in low paying job with not 
good prospects. If benefic aspects then he may holds high post 
and will be held in high esteem for his character. [If Rahu or 
afflicted malefics are with 10th lord in 6th house then he may 
suffer disgrace in his career. He may be exposed to criminal action 
and face imprisonment. 

7. If 10th lord is in the 7th house then person has mature wife who 
will assist his husband in his work. He will travel abroad on 
diplomatic missions and be well known for his skill in talking and 
achieving objectives. He will make profits through partnership and 
co-operative business. lf malefics afflict the 10th lord the person 
will be debased in his sexual habits and indulge in every kind of 
vice. 

8. The person has many breaks on his career if 10th lord is in 8th 


29 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


house. If 10th lord is fortified, he will occupy a high in his office 
for only short time. if malefic afflicts the 10th lord then person has 
propensities to commit offences. If Jupiter has PAC with 10th lord 
in 8th house then he may become mystic or spiritual teacher. 
Person may work for graveyards or burning ghats if it is Saturn. 
9. The 10th lord in 9th house makes the person a spiritual stalwart. 
He will be a beacon to spiritual seekers if Jupiter aspects it. [f both 
benefics and malefics aspect the 10th lord then person is generally 
fortunate and well to do in his work. He may fallow the hereditary 
work. He wil! be dutiful son and do many charitable works. 

10. If 10th lord is strongly placed in the 10th house then person can 
be highly successful in his profession and command respect and 
honour, If the lord is weak and afflicted then person will have no 
self-respect and may be cringing for favours. He will also be a 
dependent all his life. He will be fickle minded. If three or more 
planets are in the tOth house with 10th lord then person becomes 
as ascetic. 

11. The person earns immense riches, fortunate in every respect and 
engages himself in meritorious work, if 10th lord is in 11th house. 
He will give employment to hundreds of people and will be 
endowed with a high sense of honour. He will have many friends. 
If 11th house comes under affliction then his friends will turn 
enemies and cause him every sort of hardship and worry. 

12. if 10th lord isin 12th house then person will have to work in a far 

‘off place. He will lack comforts and face many difficulties in life. if 
beneficially placed then person becomes a spiritual seeker. But if 
mailefics afflict the 10th lord then person will be separated from his 
family and wander aimlessly and without any success. He may 
work for or do smuggling or other nefarious works, if Rahu is 
afflicting the 10th lord then person may be cheater and criminal 
and cause scrrow to the family and relatives. 


Two Planet Yogas 
In the next paragraphs the professions generally under the 
influence of the two planet yogas are given. This needs to be used with 
utmost care. These yogas will give results according to the lordship and 
placement of the yoga producing planets and the quantum of the result 
will be in proportion to the strength of these yoga producing planets. 
It is also stressed that these are very general results and are useful only 
as guidelines. 
1. Sun-Moon — The jatak works on instruments and stone works, 


30 


Astrofogy of Professions Professions - A genera! Approach 


11. 


12. 


13. 
14. 
15, 


“16. 


well versed in his job, dedicated; may produce politicians, 
psychologists and historians. 

Sun-Mars — A resplendent yoga. The Jatak may be cruel, liar, 
produces diplomats, uniformed services, Government jobs; 
factories, administrators of estates and farms. It is a strong 
combination for Industrialists, Politicians, Timber Merchants. 


. Sun-Mercury ~ A commonly available combination as mercury 


cannot go more than 27% beyond Sun. It is called “Budh Aditya” 
Yog. It makes a Jatak “Nipun” well versed in his job. Eloquent 
teachers, outstanding preachers and speakers, diplomats, 
mathematicians, and columnists are the Sun-Mercury persons. 
Sun-Jupiter — The Jatak is respected by the King, pious, teacher, 
does the work of others. Preachers, temple and ashram workers 
are Sun-Jupiter persons. 

Sun-Venus ~— Earns money by the theatrical arts or by weaponry. 
The classics also say that such a person would make money when 
working for or with ladies. 

Sun-Saturn ~ Iron works, metallurgy, winerys, making utensils of 
daily use. 

Sun-Rahu ~— Lawyers, Medicine-the alternate medicine area is a 
Sun/Rahu field. 


. Sun-Ketu) ~ Spies industrial or working for Government, 


Confidence tricksters, occultists, religious workers. 


- Moon-Mars — Chemicals and chemists, writers, engineers, war 


chroniclers, ceramics and leather manufactures are Moon-Mars 
people. 

Moon-Mercury — Poets, Wine traders, traders in liquids; shippers 
and shipping agents. Persons are very intelligent, rich and happy. 
Moon-Jupiter — Priests, religion related jobs, advertising, media, 
chief of their sect, organizers, financiers, social! workers and 
teachers. 

Moon-Saturn ~ Teachers, archeaoiogists, horse and elephant 
breeders and keepers, members of ashrams, religious sects 
ascetics. 

Moon-Rahu — Ultra Sensitive, psychologists, pathologists, 
Moon-Ketu — Psychiatrists, psychics. 

Mars-Mercury ~ Buyers/Setlers of lron and Goid; Explorer, Travel 
writers, Journalists, Commentators, investigative reporters, Engine 
drivers, Zoo workers. 

Mars-jupiter — Courageous, authors, vaastu expertise, lawyers, 
public trusts or missions of charity, organising and running 


31 


Professions - A general Approach Astrology of Professions 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


32 


orphanages and old people homes. 

Mars-Venus — Clever and well thought of in society. Dairy, 
cosmetics, artificial jewellery specially of coarse metals. Boutique, 
beauty Parlor, fashion designers and organizers of fashion parades. 
Mars-Saturn — Secret sects, volatile religious acts, Trade unionists, 
dealers in liquors and poisons, tobacco and tobacco products. 
Mars-Rahu — Traveller, explorer, secret religious sects. 
Mars-Ketu — Soldiers, dancing, circus, jobs like trapeze or lion 
tamers, explorers, risky endeavours. 

Mercury-jupiter -—- Communicators, historians biographers, 
essayists, editors, statisticians, bookkeeping, banking jobs, 
religious reformers, judges. 

Mercury-Venus — Poets, sales girls, librarians, interior decorators, 
feng shui, furniture and décor, photo journalists, make up artists. 
Mercury-Rahu — Inventors, mechanics, event managers. typists, 
curators, bookkeepers. 

Marcury-Rahu — Management experts, the talkers on life 
improvement areas, 


. Mercury-Ketu. — Computer professionals, thinkers, original 
researchers. 
. Jupiter-Venus — Solicitors, management consultants, actors, 


painters, singers, living earned by knowledge, vedantic scholors. 
Jupiter-Saturn — Lawyers, judges, management, consuitants, 
philosophers. 

Jupiter-Rahu ~ (Guru becomes Chandal) Managers, agencies, 
politicians. 


. Jupiter-Ketu — Technical teachers. 
. Saturn-Venus — Wood craft, chemical, works, breeders, 


agriculture, mining, horticulture export of plants and flowers, 
dress-designers. 

Venus-Rahu — Gambling, casinos, artists, sculptors, Models, TV 
personalities, cabaret dancers. 

Venus-Ketu — Time instruments, computers, artificial Jewellery. 
This chapter has given the classical views on profession. These are 


general and are to be used as guidelines. 


32 


Rducational Counselling 


“Saraswati mahabhage vidye kamlalochane, 
Vidya rupe vishalakshi vidyamdehi namastute.” 


Education is the platform for profession. We are living in a world 
where competitions are becoming more and more demanding and 
tougher by the day. Education prepares a child to face the world with 
competence and courage. Education is the best gift parents can give to 
their children. 

Astrology. is a proven tool whereby the parents can assess the 
potential of their child and can get a reasonable idea of the field in 
which this potential of their child can best bloom. With the reservations 
of jobs for the undeserving, the fierce competition for the dwindling 
vacancies by increasingly larger number of well-qualified students 
makes it mandatory that efforts be optimized. Astrology harmonizes 
the efforts with the planetary strengths to obtain best results. 

The parameters for assessing the potential for education and the 
most suitable subjects are as given below: 

@ Houses 

e@ Planets 

@ Divisional charts 
@ Yogas 

@ Dasha and Transit 


Houses 
The three main houses that are required to be studied to assess 


educational potential and its likely areas are: 


33 


Educational Counselling Astrology of Professions 


@ The Second House. 
@ The Fourth House. 
@ The Fifth House. 
These houses are now discussed in detail: 


The Second House 

It is the house that Indicates education at home. This education at 
home generally, for 75 to 80 percent people, means the environment 
at home in very early years till the age of 5 years or so. We can rightly 
call this as our “Sanskaras,” for 20 percent people who may not have 
had an exposure to formal education but run successful enterprises, 
this is the house that ..:dicates thelr non formal education. Remember 
the horoscope of Indira Gandhi. Her 2nd lord Mars has exchanged 
houses with her 5th lord the Sun and both are friends. Her education 
was at home by the governesses. Bill Gates is a school dropout who 
heads the technical giant, the Microsoft. 


The Fourth House 

It is the “Sukhsthan.” Sukh means happiness. Education, in the 
early years is happy education. A person neither has the choice of, nor 
the responsibillty to, give results. The education where no choices are 
exercised by the Individual Is in the 4th house. Astrology has 
earmarked subjects for each c. the planets; it is in this area, that 
astrological guidance can be a boon. Venus in it would indicate music, 
fine arts, theatre and the same Venus with Sun would indicate political 
instincts. {t is here that the first bricks are ald for a smooth “educatlon- 
profession” link up. This house is the umbllical chord feeding the 
growing child called profession in the womb of school and college 
education. Education done primarily to become literate also is this 
house’s domain. 


The Fifth House 

It is the primary house for education. The choices are the 
prerogative of this house. Astrologers read Inclinations from this house. 
The inclinations, in a supportive dasha sequence at the appropriate 
chronological age, blend harmoniously with the choice. This 
harmonious blend leads to fruitful merger of the education and the 
profession producing a person who has total job satisfaction. 

If one was to holistically view these three houses 10-15% of 
education would go to the 2nd house 25 to 30% would go to the 4th 
house and 5th, the primary house would get 55 to 60% share. 


34 


Aswology of Professions Educational Counselling 


The Planets 

_ The planets controlling the education in a horoscope are Jupiter 
and Mercury. The placement of these two in a Kendra or Trine augurs 
well for education. The interaction of these two with the 5H/lord and 
lagna/lagna lord adds further gloss to education. 


The Divisional Charts 

The divisional charts associated with education are the Navamsha 
and the Chaturvimshamsha (D/24). One word of caution is necessary. 
The use of Chaturvimshamsha needs to he restricted to those 
horoscopes that have reliable and accurate birth time. Use the 
Divisional Charts in the following manner:- 

@ Friendship between the Lagna lord and the lord of the divisional 
chart's lagna promotes the signification of the divisional chart in 
the life of the individual. Therefore friendship between lagna lords 
of, the Natal chart and the Chaturvimshamsha chart would spell 
good times for education. 

@ Analyze the Natal 5th house and the natal 5th lord in the 
divisional chart(s). Analyze the divisional chart as an independent 
chart. See the interaction of houses and planets concerned with 
education in this chart. 

@ The good placement in the natal chart of the lords of the signs in 
which the 5th lord, Jupiter and the lagna lord of the divistonal 
chart are placed improves the educational prowess of the native. 

@ Mercury’s association with Sth house/Lord in the divisional charts, 
D-9 & D724 also improves education. 


Dasha and Transit 


It is this factor that makes a native lucky. A matching dasha at the 
time which is chronologically correct is a lucky break. The 
commencement of an adverse dasha would obviously frustrate 
educational efforts. The dashas of lagna lord, 4" lord, 9" lord, 5® lord 
and 10° lord are good for educational progress. If at the time of the 
12th class final examination the student gets the dasha of lagna lord, 
AD of 5" lord and PD of 10% lord he should get what he desires. 


Yogas 
For education a few prominent yogas that add lustre to it are:- 
@ Budh-Aditya Yoga - The yoga fonned by Sun-Mercury 
combination. 


35 


Educational Counselling Astrology of Professions 


@ Shankha Yoga — When the 5th and Gth lord are in Kendra from 
each other and the Jagna has strength this yoga is formed. It is a 
good yoga for educational competitiveness. 

@ Saraswati Yoga — Jupiter, Venus and Mercury occupying 1, 2, 4, 
5, 7, 9, 10 houses either jointly or singly give rise to Saraswati 
yoga. 

e Budh Yoga — Jupiter in lagna, Moon in a Kendra, Rahu in 2nd 
house from Moon and Sun and Mars in 3rd from Rahu cause the 
formation of this yoga. A person sporting. this yoga has multiple 
educational qualifications. 

@ Venus and Jupiter — Combination of these two in any house give 
good education to the person. 

e@ If Mars and Jupiter are in combination in a house they also 
indicate an educated person. 

It is also worth remembering that the stronger the bond between 
5H/lord, Mercury, Jupiter, L/lagna lord is, the better it is For education. 


INustration — | 
A horoscope of a Jataka, from a normal middle class family of 
Delhi is now taken up to show the application of the parameters. 


DOB: 30 Aug. 1968; TOB: 03:55 am.; Dethi 
Balance of Dasha - Jupiter 4-9-1] 


| sat (R) 


Birth Chart 
30 Aug. 1968 
03:55 am. 
Delhi 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
15°57 1oett 29°20° 22°07’ 02°19' 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 


20°47 02°28’ 01°41" a. MEST 16°37" 


36 


Astrology of Professions Educa. snaf Counselling 


5 
Rah Ket 
Ven Mer 


Chaturvimshamsha 


Rah Ket 
Ven Mer 
2° House 


Leo is the second house and the Jord is Sun and by its placement 
in its own house in the Mooltrikon segment, remembering that Leo O- 


VEN 


The Houses 


oF 


Educational Counselling Astralogy of Professions 


20 deg comprises the Mool Trikon segment of his house, lends it good 
strength. It is conjunct with Jupiter the 9th lord and the Gth lord. The 
early life is likely to be the one of traditional Sanskaras. Jupiter the 9th 
lord promises it. The schooling is likely to be in top class play or junior 
schools, 2nd Jord in 2° H would give it. 


4° house 

Ath lord is Venus who is placed in 3rd house is in very close 
conjunction with the exalted 3rd lord Mercury. 4th lord is in Rahu/Ketu 
axis. 4th house is aspected by Sth lord Mars a “yoga karak” for this 
lagna and debilitated though Vargottama exalted in navamsha, 
Saturn's influence on 4th house causes educational problems. Malefic 
influence of Mars and Saturn on the house and Rahu/Ketu on the 4th 
lord lead the native to study technical subjects. The debilitation of the 
Ath lord and its placement in the constellation of Sun lead the native 
to study semi-technical subjects. The debilitation of the 4th lord 
(Venus) and ifs cancellation by the conjunction with the lord of the 
debilitation sign (Mercury) show a poor beginning in semi- technical 
field becoming better later. Saturn the 8th lord’s influence gives breaks 
in education. This also covers change in schools due to various 
Postings of the father especially in this case where Saturn is extremely 
strong due to its retrogradation and it becoming Vargottama. 


5“ House 

The fifth house has no aspect. Its lord is Mars. Mars is in the 
ascendant. It is a good placement. 5th lord is debilitated though with 
a cancellation as Saturn the exaltation lord of Mars is in a Kendra both 
from lagna and the Moon. The full potential of the native is not realized 
and a general feeling of not quite being in the top half persists. The 
comments that may be if she had tried a bit harder she would have 
made the merit list are the gift of debilitated 4th and 5th lords who 
have both got cancellations of their debilitations. Saturn, the debilitated 
7th lord aspecting Venus the 4th lord from Pisces (its retrograde 
position) and the 4th house from Aries increases the gloom. Saturn is 
at best a gloomy pianet. 


The Planets, Mercury & Jupiter 

Mercury is exalted. It is strongly influencing Venus, the 4th lorct 
by being in planetary war with him. 3rd house brings hobbies and 
talents to the fore. Jupiter is also nicely placed in 2nd house with 2nd 
lord Sun. 2nd house and the 4th house, and Venus the 4th lord have 


38 


Astrology of Professions Educatie 1a! Counselling 


gained strength by interacting with the significator planets. Notice the 
comparative bleakness enveloping the 5th house and 5th lord. It needs 
to be kept at the back of the mind and the decision reserved till the 
examination of the divisional charts particularly the Navamsha. 


The Divisional Charts 


The Navamsha 

The lagna lords of the natal and the Navamsha are Moon and 
Mars. These are mutual friends. In this horoscope Moon being 3 
houses ahead of Mars gains temporary (Tatkalik) friendship which raises 
the ‘naisargik” friendship to intimate friendship. The promises of natal 
chart would be boosted by the wholehearted support of the 
Navamsha. 

The Natal 5th House/Lagna in Navamsha. The natal 5th house is 
the lagna rashi of the Navamsha. Education is liked by the native. The 
Sth lord debilitate4 in rashi is exalted in Navamsha. This promises 
outstanding results in the dasha/AD of Mars. The weakness of 5th 
house noticed in the Natal chart while examining the houses gets 
removed causing education to flourish. 

In the Navamsha Jupiter the 2nd lord and the 5th lord is banished 
to the none too comfortable 12th house. Not a good position to be in. 
General indications are hostels or education away from home. The 4th 
Jord is Saturn. It is in the 6th :-ouse in mutual aspect with Jupiter the 
2nd and 5th lord. Saturn is debilitated. Saturn is in Gth house where its 
results are good. Saturn is in mutual aspect with exalted Mars from the 
3rd house. The entire education is in the dasha of Saturn. Saturn would 
have a decisive say in the education. 6th house tn adverse AD’s causes 
reversals and problems. Competitiveness may, under the influence of 
Mars, become arrogant disdain 

Jupiter and Saturn, the lords of 2nd, 4th and 5th of the Navamsha 
chart are placed in 2nd and the !0th house of the natal chart. This is 
also 11th and 7th house from natal Moon. The placement is good. The 
education would be good. 

Mercury and Jupiter in the Navamsha. In the Navamsha Jupiter 
improves his lordship from @th and 9th in the natal to 2nd and 5th. 5 
and 9 are at par but 2nd is better for Jupiter than @th house lordship. 
Mercury from exaltation goes down to a friendly house. Mercury's 
Jordship of 12 and 3 in natal deteriorates to 8 and11! in Navamsha. 
Educational promises are likely to flounder and not reach the desired 
Soals. 


39 


Educational Counselling Astrology of Professions 


The Chaturvimshamsha 

The lagna lord is Moon and the natal lagna Jord is also Moon. This 
is an educational fulfilment promise. The 2nd lord is in 12th aspected 
by the 5th lord and the 6th lord from the 6th. In Navamsha also the 
2nd lord was in the 12" H aspected by 4th lord from 6th. In the natal 
chart also the 6th lord is placed in the 2nd house. So education gets 
fair dose of the 6/12 axis. The education is partly in hostels. Education 
is about average though the native is extra intelligent. Notice lagna 
lord in Lagna and 5th lord in 6th with 6th lord. This is “Shankh” yoga. 
The aspect of Sun separates some sheen of the good education 
promised by the Chaturvimshamsha. 


The Dasha 

The native got 4 years, 9 months and 11 days dasha of Jupiter at 
birth. This was followed by the period of Saturn for 19 years. The 
complete education is in Saturn dasha. Saturn influences the 4th house 
and 4th lord by aspect. It is also the 4th and 5th lord from the Moon. 
It is the 4th lord of Navamsha aspecting 5th and 2nd lord Jupiter and 
in the Chaturvimshamsha it is aspecting the 5th house. Saturn’s 
multiple influences on educational parameters did not permit full 
development of educational potential. The education was never 
brilliant but in helpful AD’s it was good and in unhelpful AD the native 
still passed the exams. 

There are no worthwhile educational yogas in this horoscope. 
Yogas permit first class individual to break into the merit list. The 
absence of yogas deprives the ornamentation of the education. The 
distinction suffers. 

Now what professional advice would result from this examination 
of the horoscope? This is middle class native of an urban household. 
The native is a girl. She will do service- Saturn in the 10th house 
ensures it when it is also in the 6th house of the Navamsha. Saturn is 
the 7th lord in 10th house. Mercury’s dasha from her 24th year took 
this commerce graduate into jewellery designing where she married 
the boss and is now happily working under his supervision. Note 
exaltation of Mercury and its closenéss to Venus in all the divisional 
charts. The parents were very ambitious but they tailored their 
ambitions and let the gir} do commerce and some short-term hobby 
courses. Astrology is a stress reducer if used properly to harmonise 
talents with the planetary strengths. 


40 


Astrology of Professions Educational Counselling 


iNustration — 2 


DOB: 9 Nov. 1968; TOB: [2:45 pm; 
The person of this horoscope was also born in a middle class 
Indian household. In this horoscope let us study the educational 


promises. 


Birth Chart 
9 Nov. 1969, 


12:45 pm. 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 

giskietos 2a 32 08°28' 06°36’ 07°50’ 

Jupiter Venus Saturn (R) Rahu Ketu 

05°26" 29°47" 26°47" 15°30: 15°30: 
The Houses 


We need to examine the 2", the 4" the 5" houses and their lords. 


2"? House 

The second house is Aquarius and its lord Saturn is placed in 3* 
house. Saturn is in retrograde motion and is also the lagna lord. Saturn 
at 26 Deg 47 Min is Vargottama. The second lord is strong. This strong 
2™ Jord is influencing the 2" house as it is in retrograde motion. The 
quality of initial education goes up. Look at the aspects. Jupiter is 
aspecting the second lord Saturn who is placed in Jupiter’s house and 
who is in Mercury’s constellation. This joint effect of the Karakas of 
education viz. Mercury and Jupiter makes the Jataka to take a liking to 
and be delighted in studies. Saturn the lagna lord, in 3“ house makes 
the native into a hardworking determined individual willing to slog for 
long hours. To sum up, the examination of 2"* house and 2™ lord shows 
a promising foundation for future ectucational pursuits. 


41 


Educational Counselling Astrology of Professions 


Navamsha 


Sat (R) 


4° House 

4" H has Aries rising in it. Mars its lord is in the 9" house and is 
aspecting it. Any house that has anything to do with its lord gains 
strength. 4° house is also aspected by Sun and Mercury. 3 planets 
including its lord aspecting it make 4" a very strong house. *” 


5“ House 

Taurus rises in 5" house. 5” Lord Venus is placed in the {1% 
house. Venus aspects the 5™ house. 5" house also gains strength as its 
lord aspects it. 5° is also aspected by lagna lord and 2™ lord Saturn. 
Saturn also aspects the 4 house and 5” Lord (Venus) from its 
retrograde position in Aquarius. 

We have seen that the three educations related houses 2, 4 and 
5 are al! influenced by their own lords. This is an excellent augury for 
education. Saturn has a telling impact on the educational houses. It is 
also the 5 lord from Mercury. 


42 


Astrology of Professions Educational Counselling 


The Divisional Charts 
These houses and lords need to be examined in the dlvislonal 
charts Navamsha and Chaturvimshamsha (D/24). 


Navamsha 

Saturn and Venus the 2™ and the 5™ lord of Natal chart have both 
improved. Venus is exalted. Saturn Is Vargottama and both are in the 
strongest Kendra the 10" house. Saturn has further augmented its 
strength by exchanging houses with the 10 lord Jupiter. A 9/10 
exchange involving the 5% lord(Venus) and 11 Lord(Mars) of 
Navamsha also is strong, a welcome and tremendous boost to 
education. Notice that the 2™ and 4" lords of Navamsha the Moon and 
Mercury are conjunct in 7" house — a Kendra. The 5® lord Is exalted in 
10™ house: The native would take profession related training and utilize 
It for long as this 5/10 connection is also seen in the natal chart where 
10 lord Venus is aspecting the 5H. Venus is also the 5 lord. 


Chaturvimshamsha 

The lagna’ lord of this chart is Venus. Venus is the 5" lord of the 
natal chart. Saturn is the lagna lord of the Nata! Chart. Saturn is the 5" 
lord of the Chaturvimshamsha Chart. Venus and Saturn are friends. The 
native takes to education in a friendly manner. The native is on the way 
to being well educated. 

There is an exchange of the 2” and 3” lords; Mars and Jupiter 
jointly aspect the 6" and the 10" house of the chart. Education would 
be backed by family (2% H); the native would be dedicated and 
determined worker (37 H), and would figure in competitive success (6" 
H), leading to honourable work (10* H). 

We now examine the 4" & 5% houses of this divisional chart. 
Saturn is the 4" Lord, placed in the 7“ House, aspecting the 4*" House. 
Own lord aspecting makes the 4" House into a real dispenser of “sukh” 
due to educational distinctions. Now examine the 5" House. It is here 
that one locates the key to educational promises and their flowering In 
so distinguished a manner. Look at It. Sun, Moon and Mercury placed 
in it. These three are the lords of the 9*, 10" & 11® houses of this 
divisional chart. Planets denoting luck, the position & fame/ 
achievements in the educational field have gathered together in a 
trinlal house to aspect the house of gains. The aspecters also include 
the Sun (11% Lord). Education links Itself with government. This 
detailed account of the houses underscores the need of promise(s) and 
it shows the absolute necessity of examining the divisional charts. 


43 


Educational Counselling Astralagy of Professions 


Where  birth-time is dependable, D-24 cannot be ignored for 
educational counselling. 


The Planets, Mercury & Jupiter 

Mercury is the 6" and the 9 lord aspecting the 4" house. Luck 
of the 9" house and competitiveness of the 6" house make their 
impact on the education of the 4" house. Sun, the 8" lord is also with 
Mercury. This brings the element of sudden changes. The native Jeaves 
IIT and opts for JAS. Jupiter is the 12" and 3“ ford in the 9” house. 3” 
house improves as Jupiter aspects its own house. 9" house improves, 
as Saturn, the lagna lord, posited in the 3 house aspects it. Efforts of 
the native get the push of good luck. Notice that Jupiter is with two 
malefics and has the aspect of another two (Saturn/Rahu). This Jupiter 
is in the constellation exchange relationship with the Sun. Also, Jupiter 
is in close conjunction with 4% Lord (Mars), and it aspects the 2™ Jord 
(Saturn) and the 5” house. Education was technical, but exchange with 
Sun, who is located in the 10 house, made the native into an 
administrator. 


The Dasha 

A fair portion of the discussion on the divisional charts has been 
done while discussing the houses. The augmentation of the strength of 
Mercury and Jupiter is of interest here, particularly of Jupiter. Jupiter — 
to remind us becomes the Mahadasha lord from the 16% year to the 
32” year. Mercury and Jupiter, improve their lordship in the Navamsha 
to lagna lord/4 Jord and 7 lord/10 lord respectively. It is better than 3/ 
9 Jordship of Mercury and a vast improvement for Jupiter who had the 
lordship of the 12” and the 3% houses. Jupiter shows quantum 
improvement by exchange of houses with 9" lord (Saturn). It is also 
the dispositor of exalted 5" Jord of both the Navamsha and the natal 
chart. This is why the native got through to the tough IIT in Jupiter/ 
Jupiter. See Jupiter's further improvement in the D-2A4. It is the 6® lord 
aspecting the 6™ house and in the exchange of houses relation with 
Mars. A very strong push for competitive success accrues and the 
native becomes a celebrity in fupiter/Jupiter. 

Jupiter's dasha made this native into an engineer and an 
administrator. We have seen the power of Jupiter. The native was lucky 
to get a matched dasha at the appropriate time. 


Educational Counselling 
This is the bedrock of professional counselling. It needs to be 


44 


Astrology of Professions Educational Counselling 


studied in detail. A book on profession cannot do justice to this 
important subject. Educational counselling is an integral part of 
professional counselling, hence it has been included in details that are 
sufficient to stress its indispensability and importance. 


45 


self Employment or Service 


Ae Woe sa ale Aaa, 
Tm] aia de se Waal 
Bhagwan Ram makes everyone do His bidding. He is the 
puppeteer and we all are puppets. 

Astrology is the only science, which can successfully predict the 
future of a person with certain degree of accuracy. Keeping this in 
mind astrology’s utility in guidance of professional inclinations is very 
vast and immense. Therefore the aim would be to pinpoint at a very 
nascent stage of a persons life about his professional inclinations i.e. 
self employment or service. This information will be a guiding factor for 
the parents in proper organization of schooling and higher eclucation of 
the child in harmony with his pianetary influences to maximize the 
gains out of acquired education. 

The most pronounced effect on a person’s choice of career is that 
of the 10th House. 10th House is the Karma Bhava which plays a 
significant role of deciding the professional inclinations of a person. An 
application of the following seven principles wil] help in distinguishing 
between the horoscopes of a Self-Employed person and of a person 
likely to go for service. 


Seven Principles 
For determination of Service or self employment following 7 
principles may be applied: 
® Principle 1 — (Number of planets between 7" to 12‘ houses 
and or 10" to 37 houses) Concentration of planets around the 
ascendant and/or 10th house strengthens them because it is a 


46 


Astrology of Professions Self Employment or Service 


well established principle that planets 3 houses away on either 
sides adjacent to it are its tatkalik mitra and render considerable 
strength. Concentration of planets in 7" to 12" Houses or 10% to 
3 Houses strengthens the 10" House and the Lagna resnectively. 
This is the first pointer towards self confidence for an individual 
who would like to follow an independent path rather than a 
conventional beaten track. Therefore an _ individual whose 
horoscope has 5 or more planets in 7“ to 12" houses Or 10” to 
3" houses is likely to be self employed. 

But in cases where the above conditions are fulfilled yet an 
individual Is found to be in service due to influence of Saturn, 
Dasha sequence, strength of 6th House/Lord etc then such an 
individual is expected to be at a very high post in his particular 
profession where he would be required to take independent 
decisions. 

® Principte 2 — (Poorna Paramatmamsa Planets) The epic, Brihat 
Prashar Hora Shastra describes Sun, Moon, Mars and Rahu as 
“Poorna Paramatmamsa” planets. Whereas, Mercury, Jupiter, 
Venus, Saturn and Ketu are called “Jeevamsa Samanvit” Planets. It 
is very significant that Dasha sequence of the four Poorna 
Paramatmamsa Planets follows in a continuous sequence, i.e. Sun, 
Moon, Mars, and Rahu. 

PAC influence of these Poorna Paramatmamsa Planets on Lagna 
and Lagna Lord strengthens the Lagna and in turn increases the 
independence in an individual. Similarly PAC influence of these 
divine group of planets on the 10° house/Lord will give 
independence to the vocation or profession and the individual is 
more likely to be Self-Employed. 

If two or more Poorna Paramatmamsa planets are in the visible half 
of the horoscope i.e. from 7th to 12th Houses or around the lagna 
i.e. from 10th to 3rd Houses an individual would more likely to be 
Self-Employed. 

@ Principle 3 — (Saturn and its influence on 10° House and 10” 
Lord) Before we discuss the influence of Saturn let us describe 
another two important astrological definitions i.e. Gocharastha and 
Agocharsthia. Saturn in exaltation sign, own house and not related 
to 6th, 8th ov 12th houses is called Gocharastha and is likely to 
give benefic results. While debilitated, eclipsed, Saturn tost In 
planetary war, combust or related to 6th, 8th or 12th Houses is 
called Agocharastha or malefic Saturn. In our further deliberations 
it would be better to remember these two terminologies 


47 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


PAC of Agocharastha Saturn with the Moon, Sun, 10° lord and 
10" house is likely to give service to an individual unless Saturn 
is yoga karaka. However, PAC influence of Gocharastha Saturn on 
Moon, Sun, 10" lord and 10" house is more likely to veer an 
individual towards Self-Employment. 

[t is very important to see the position of Saturn in Navamsha and 
Dashamsha chart also. Jt has been observed that if Saturn is 
Agocharastha in the birth chart and it becomes Gocharastha in 
Navamsha and Dashamsha chart then an individual who is in 
Service may go for self-employment as per the dictates of the 
dasha system. 

@ Principle 4 — (Strength of 6th house/lord vis-a-vis lagna/ 
lagna lord) 6" House is the house of service or bondage. If 6” 
house or 6" Lord is stronger than the Lagna or Lagna Lord, an 
individual would likely to go for service or a profession where he 
will have to serve under someone. 

@ Principle 5 — (Dhan yogas) The Dhan yogas are astrological 
combinations for wealth and prosperity and contribute towards 
the financial prosperity of an individual. 2° and the 11% houses 
are the houses of wealth and gains respectively. The houses 5” 
and 9" are called “Lakshmi Sthans”. An inter action of these 4 
houses and their lords produces Dhan Yoga.. Individuals who tend 
to be self employed would like to eatn as much as possible 
whereas, such abundant scope would not be seen a horoscope 
tending towards Service. A service holder would be limited to his 
month end salary only. Therefore it is very important to have 
strong Dnan Yogas in the case of Self-Employed individual. 

@ Principle 6 — (PAC of 3° House/Lord with 9 and 10° 
Houses or Lords) The 3“ house i.e parakram sthan and its 
significator Mars signifies self-efforts and hard work while 9° and 
10° Houses are “Bhagya’ and “Karam” sthan_ respectively. 
Comparatively in Self-Employment one needs to be more 
independent and hardworking than in case of service person. Self- 
Employed individual would have to take many aggressive 
decision and be competitive. When there is any relation of 3 
house, 3% lord with 9” House / 9" lord and or 10° House / 10" 
lord an individual is more likely to be Self-Employed. 

@ Principle 7 — (indu Lagna and Indu Lagnesh) Another method 
of working out the extent of prosperity of a person is to 
determine the Indu Lagna in his natal chart and see the 
disposition of planets from it. An unblemished benefic: or an 


48 


Astrology of Professions Self Employment or Service 


exalted malefic in the Indu Lagna strengthens the Indu Lagna and 

makes one a multi-millionaire according to classical texts. 

Ordinary maiefic influence on the Indu Lagna leads to ordinary 

financial status. Powerful Indu Lagna and indu Lagnesh denote 

wealth, an important indicator of business leading to self 
employment.. 

Analysis of any horoscope is not complete without an analysis of 
the Navamsha. {f the position of planets improves significantly in the 
Navamsha as compared to the Rashi Chart it indicates upward growth 
and an individual who is likely to be wel! placed in whatever profession 
he is engaged in. 

Astrologers should study the divisional charts along with the main 
chart. The divisional charts are derived from the main chart and are not 
a separate horoscope. These divisional charts deal with specific areas of 
one’s life. it is essential to use these charts to make accurate and 
specific predictions. An analysis of Dashamsha chart is important to 
analyse the professional! inclinations. 


Dasha System 

Though the above principles to a fair degree of accuracy will help 
in analysing the professional inclinations of a person, we can’t overlook 
the importance of a favourable Dasha. If an application of the above 
principles indicates service as a profession for the individual and the 
dasha also indicates service then one can say with certainty that the 
individual will go for service. Basic guiding factor to distinguish 
between the horoscopes of a Self-Employed, vis-a-vis a Service holder 
will be the degree of independence present in a horoscope and these 
are required to be carefully analysed before a prediction is being made. 

These principles are now being applied on horoscopes to show 
their application. 


Wiustration - | (Service) 

This is the horoscope of a person who is in Govt. Service since the 
last 25 years. He was born on 22/9/1948 at 21:15 PM, Delhi. He is 
working as an Executive Engineer in a Govt organization. 

® In his horoscope number of planets from 7th to 12th house is 3 
and from 10th to 3rd house is 3. As the number of planets is Jess 
than 5 around the lagna & [0" house the person is more GY to 

go for service. (Principle 1) 

® Out of the 4 Poorna Parmatamamsa Planets i.e. Sun. Mon, Mars 
Rahu, only Mars is aspecting Lagna. The Poorna Parmatamamsa 


49 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


lIfustration - 1 
{Service) 
Birth Chart 


22 Sep. 1948 
21:15 pm. 
Dethi 


Mer Ket 
Mars 
Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
05°20’ 06°23’ 23°48" 19°39’ 02°16' 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
28°04' 21°32’ 07°16 12°08' 12°08’ 


Navamsha 


Dashamsha 


50 


Astrology of Professions Self Employment or Service 


planets are not influencing 10H or [OL. Service is more likely. 

(Principle 2) 

@ Saturn is the lord of 9" and 10° houses and is posited in the 4” 
house. The dispositor of Saturn is the Sun. The Saturn is 10" tord 
and is aspecting 10® house. Saturn’s PAC interaction with 10 H/ 
L is indication of Service. In this case we note that Saturn is yoga 
karak. In Navamsha, Saturn is the Lagna lord and lord of the 12 
house and is posited in the 5 house, this Saturn is Agocharstha 
and is aspecting the 10" lord Mars. This will also indicate Service. 
(Principie 3) 

@ in the Dashamsha, Agocharastha Saturn is the Lagna load and lord 
of the 12™ house and is posited in 9th house. {t aspects 10% lord 
Mars and also Sun.(Principle 3). An important deduction !:2re is 
that Saturn's PAC interaction inclines the individual towards 
Service, even if Saturn be the yoga karak. Sat’s disposition in the 
D-9.or D-10 clinch the issue. , 

@ 6th house has the influence of 5 planets. 6th lord is aspected by 
Jupiter. GH/GL is comparatively stronger than Lagna and Lagna 
Lord. It indicates Service. (Principle 4) 

@ 2” and 5" lord Mercury is posited in 6% house, aspected by 9" 
lord Saturn. There is a strong connection of 2%, 5" and 9" house 
indicating a strong Dhan yoga. 1/™ lord Jupiter is also aspecting 
its own house further strengthening this Dhan yoga. (Principle 5) 

@ Indu Lagna is Capricorn and Indu Lagnesh is Saturn posited in the 
4" house. Indu Lagnesh is not under the aspect of any planet. 
Indu Lagna is aspected by malefic Mars. Strength of Indu Lagna 
and Lagnesh indicates service (Principle 7). 

The dasha at birth was Venus 4 years and 4 months. He was 10 
years when Sun’s dasha gave way to Moon. At 20, Mars took over and 
placed as it is in the 6" house aspected by 10L Saturn, this Jataka was 
sucked into the Service stream. 


illustration - 2 (Business) 


DOB: 21-9-1968; TOB: 06:45; Lat 28:39 Long 77:13 
Balance of Dasha — Venus 16 Years 6 Months 7 Days 

This Is the horoscope of a businessman. He was_ initially 
manufacturing and trading surgical cotton from 1981 to 1991 during 
dasha of Moon. But failed to establish himself, and changed his 
business line from 1991 to manufacturing and export of garments. He 
tasted success and received the blessings of goddess Laxmi. During the 


91 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


iltiustration - 2 
(Business) 
Birth Chart 


Sep 21. 1958 
06:45 am. 
Delhi 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
17°27" 04°16' gece 06°40’ 22°17" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
09°18 20°59" 26°26" 29°27" 29°27’ 


Dashamsha 


Astrology of Professions Self Emp'uyment or Service 


year 1991, when Mars Mahadasha started, he change his business and 
started the business of manufacturing and export of reactymade 
garments. 10" Lord Mercury is placed with 9° Lord Venus in 12° house 
and is aspected by Mahadashanath Mars which is the 3'¢ and 8" Lord 
aspected by Saturn which is the 5" and 6™ Lord. Venus has given the 
activity of designing garments. Mars has given manufacturing activity, 
Saturn has given the employment in his factory (more than 400 labour 
are working in his factory). The placement of 10“ Lord and Lagna lord 
Mercury in 12" house has given export business. Now see the 
application of the principtes:- 

@ Number of planets from 7° to 12" is 4; and from 10° to 3” are 
6. Business. Is indicated. (Principle 1) 

@ Lagna and Lagna Lord are having the influence of three Purna 
Parmatamamsa planets. Sun and Rahu are in Lagna. And Lagna 
Lord Mercury is being aspected by Mars. Al! these indicate self 
employment. (Principle 2) 

@ Saturn in this horoscope is “Gocharastha.” It is influencing Mercury 
the 10L both from Lagna and the Moon by aspecting him. In 
Navamsha Saturn is the tOL and in Dashamsha Saturn aspects the 
10H. A “Gocharastha” Saturn in 3% house ensures self 
employment. 

@ Saturn in 5° and 6" ford and is placed in 3rd house aspected by 
8" lord Mars. Which makes Lagna and Lagna ford comparatively 
stronger than @” H and 6" Lord that too indicates independence 
in profession. (Principle 4) 

@ 2™ Lord and 9th lord Venus is placed in 12th house with lagna 
lord Mercury and is aspected by 5th lord Saturn .There is a strong 
relationship between 1,2,5,9" house. {n Navamsha, 5th lord Sun 
is placed in 11th house with 11th lord and aspecting 5th house. 
9th lord Jupiter is in own house and also aspecting Sth house. 

@ Raj yoga — 9" Lord Venus and 10" Lord Mercury are placed in 
12" house and these 2 planets are also placed in 7" house 
together in Navamsha. 

® Vipreet Raj Yoga — Vipreet Raj yoga is created as 6" lord Saturn 
is placed in 3 house aspects 8" Lord Mars in 9” house. The 
person amassed wealth during the Mahadasha of Mars involved in 
this Vipreet Raj yoga. Mars is the 8" lord in Navamsha and is 
posited in the 12” house. The individual had a turnover of Rs. 40 
lac approximately till 1991. During the Mahadasha of Mars (. 28- 
3-91 to 28-3-98) his business grew upwards and had reached a 
turnover of 12 crores. 


53 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


@ Lord of Parakram Sthan (3'° house) is placed in 9" house and is 
aspecting own house. 3 Lord Mars also aspects 9° lord Venus 
and 10" Lord Mercury. A strong relationship between 3rd, 9th 
and 10th house has been established indicating self employment 
like business. 

@ Indu Lagna is 9° house and Indu lagnesh is Venus, placed in 12th 
house with lagna lord and 10" Lord Mercury. These are aspected 
by Saturn from 3™ house. (5th lord) and Mars (3rd & 8th lord). 
Indu lagna/ Indu lagnesh are very strong. These are also indicative 
of business. 

@ In D1 chart, there is no planet in his own house or in Exaltation 
but in Navamsha 3 planets (Jupiter, Venus and Saturn) are in Own 
house. and Rahu & Ketu are Vargottama. Five planets have 
improved in Navamsha which clearly shows that there will be 
upward growth for a person and he will be well placed. 

@ The improvement in the D-9 is a good indicator of a rising and 
creditable chart. 


Wustration - 3 


DOB: 3-10-1959; TOB: 22:56; Dethi 
The person is in government organization and working in a 
technology firm. 
@ The number of planets in this horoscape from 7” to 12" houses is 


illustration - 3 


Birth Chart 
Rah 
Mare Mer 3 Oct. 1959 

22:56 pm hrs. 
Delhi 
om |e 
Mars Mer 

Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
10°25’ 16°27’ 02°45’ 24°52’ 28°11’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 


06°21 08°47’ 07°49" 10°43’ 10°43’ 


54 


Astrology of Professions Self Empluyment or Service 


2 and from 10% to 3" houses are also 2. 


@ Not much influence of Poorna Parmatamamsa planets on Lagna, 
Lagna lord, 10“ house and 10L. 

@ Saturn is Agocharastha and aspecting Sun in D1 chart and Saturn 
is placed in 6" house in Navamsha. 

@ 6" house 6L is stronger in comparison to Lagna Lord. Lagna Lord 
Mercury is in rashi gandant. 

@ Strong dhan yogas are not there . 

@ 3” lord Sun is aspected by 9* Lord Saturn but under malefic 
influence of Mars, Rahu and Ketu. 

@ Indu tagna/Lord is also not very strong. 


Iustration - 4 


DOB: 19-11-1961; TOB: 14:35; Defhi 
The person is employed in a government organization and 


55 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


Hiustration - 4 


9 Birth Chart 
| 18 Nov. 1961 
14:35:00 
Delhi 
7 
Ven Mer 

Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
08°59’ 03°28' 24°21’ 10°36: 18°38’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
08°50’ 16°52’ 02°06" 29°03' 29°03’ 


Navamsha ie 
Mars | Lag 
Ket 


Dashamsha 


56 


| 


| Astrology of Professions Self Employment or Service 


working as IT manager. 

@ The number of planets in his horoscope from 7* to 12™ houses is 
7 and from 10° to 3% houses are 4. 

® Not much influence of Poorna Parmatamamsa planets on lagn/10" 
house. There are 7 planets from 7° to 12" house, therefore the 
person is of independent nature and influence of Saturn on 10L 
has given him service as a profession. 

@ 10 lord is with Saturn in lagna chart and in Navamsha also 10” 
lord is aspected by Saturn. 

@ LL is debilitated and 6 lord is in 9 house with 9" lord. @” house/ 
6" lord Is stronger than Lagna and lagna lord. 


Itlustration - § 
Birth Chart 


17 Jan. 1945 
16:48 hrs. 
Delhi 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
21°59’ 03°55’ 17°02’ 15°38’ 10°40’ 
Jupiter =~ ~~ ‘Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 


04°22’ 20°01’ 12°41’ 25°19" 25°19" 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


“™ 
10 Jup 
Lag 


ee Dashamsha i 
Ven 
DOB: 17-01-1945; TOB: 16:48; Dethi 


A professor from Delhi University. 
@ The number of planets in his horoscope from 7th to 12th house is 
6 and from 10th to 3rd houses is 2. 
@ L & LL is having influence of 2 Poorna Parmatamamsa Planet. 
@ As there are more the 5 Planets from 7h to 12h. The person is 
having an independent working environment but due to influence 
of Saturn, he is in job. 
L/LL is stronger than Gh, 6L. 
There is no strong Dhan Yoga & other Yoga. 
No relation ship between 3,9,10th houses. 
Indu lagna/indu Lagnesh is also not strong. 


Illustration - 5 


iHustration - 6 (Service) 


DOB: 24-2-1963; TOB: 09:30; Dethi 
The person is a Development officer in an Insurance company. His 
working environment is totally independent. 

@ The number of planets in his horoscope from 7th to 12th house is 
7 and from 10th to 3rd houses is 6. 

@ There are more than 5 planets in the said houses. There is not 
much influence of Poorna Parmatamamsa planets on L, LL, 10H 
and. 10L. 

@ Saturn is posited in 10° house in Birth Chart and is the lord of 10° 
house of Navamsha 

@ Lagna lord Mars is retrograde and 6" lord Mercury is placed in 


58 


Astrology of Professions 


N\A 


Self Employment or Service 


lilustration -6 ' as 
(Service) 
Birth Chart 


24 Feb. 1963 
09:30 am. 


Mars Mercury 


14°42’ IPP 2T 
Rahu Ketu 
05°56" 05°56’ 


Seff Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


10" house. Therefore 6" house/6 L is strong. 

@ Not many Dhan yogas/Raj Yogas. 

@ 3 lord is placed in 10" house but under malefic influence of 
Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu. 

@ Indu lagna/Indu Lagnesh is also not strong. 


Wlustration - 7 
DOB: 27-7-1958; TOB: 11:02; Dethi 


Balance of Dasha — Mercury 3 Years 3 Months 3 days 
He is a MBA and a son of a Director of large business house and 


|Nustration - 7 


Birth Chart 
27 Jut. 1958 
11:02 am. 


Sat (R) 
Moon 


Jup 
h 


Mars Mercury 


10°25’ 07°29" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
00°33 42°43’ 26°25' 03°00’ 03°00' 


60 


Astrology of Professions Self Employment or Service 


Dashamsha 


is a wealthy person, He has also served for two years in Singapore. 

@ The number of planets in his horoscope from 7" to 12" house is 
5 and from 10th to 3rd houses is 7 

@ Three planets are in Nakshatra of Poorna Parmatamamsa Planet 
and three Poorna Parmatamamsa Planets are from 10th house to 
3rd house. 

e Saturn is aspecting 10° lord Mercury in 12” house, which 
indicates that he was in service outside India. But in Navamsha 
Saturn is in own house i.e. become Gocharastha. He left the 
service and started his own business. 

e@ LL is placed in #2 house and he is engaged in export and import 
business. He lives outside India for 10 days in a Month 6" lord is 
retrograde and with debilitated Moon therefore L/LL is strong. 

@ There is a very strong Dhan Yoga in a horoscope. 

@ There is no relationship between 3, 9, and 10. He is a son of a 
wealthy businessman. 

@ Indu lagna (Aq) is aspected by. 10L, LL, 4L, 7L. Indu lagnesh has 
improved in Navamsha and is strong. 


(Wustration - 8 


DOB: 9-9-§958; TOB: !2:30; Sonipat 
Balance of Dasha at Birth - jupiter 7 years 1 i Months 18 days 
A well to do shopkeeper. 
@ The number of planets in his horoscope from 7th to {2th house 
is 7 and from 10th to 3rd houses is 6 
® Three Planets are in Nakshatra of Poorna Parmatamamsa Planets 


61 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


as 


Illustration - 8 
Birth Chart 


9 Sep. 1958 
12:30 hrs. 
Sonepat 


Mars Mercury 
02°58’ 04°50’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
07°04’ 06°25' 26°O?’ 29°36’ 29°36’ 


62 


Astrology of Professions Self Employment or Service 


@ Saturn is aspecting 10th in Birth Chart but in Navamsha, Saturn is 
in own house, therefore, Saturn is Gocharastha. 

@ Lagna is aspected by its own lord. Therefore, lagna is stronger 
than @” house. 

@ There is a very strong Dhan Yoga. 

@ 3” lord is placed in lagna and aspects 10° house and 10* lord. 


IItustration - 9 


DOB: !-5-1951; TOB: 5:45; Lat 31:35N Long 74:56E 
Balance of Dasha at Birth — Rahu 2 Years 10 Months 21 days 
The individual is a businessman engaged in manufacturing of 
aN 
1 


ag 


Illustration - 9 
Birth Chart 


1 May. 1951 
05:45 am. 


Mars Mercury (R) 
14°58' 16°39 THOT 21°59: 07°16" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn (R) Rahu Ketu 


08°53 25°13 03°01" 24°41 24°41" 


63 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


oe 


ran 


Ket Mer 
Sat 


Dashamsha al 
Lag 


Ven 
Sun 


corrugated boxes. He is fairly wealthy. 


The number of planets in his horoscope from 7th to 12th house 
is 3 and from 10th to 3rd houses is 7 

Moon, Venus, Saturn are in Nakshatra of Poorna Parmatamamsa 
Planet. 10° Lord is Saturn and also in Nakshatra of Poorna 
Parmatamamsa Planet Sun. All four Poorna Parmatamamsa Planets 
are in 10" to 3“ houses. 

Saturn is Gocharastha in Birth Chart. No aspect of Saturn on 10H, 
but retrograde Saturn is aspecting 10" Lord. No aspect of Saturn 
ori 10H, fOL in Navamsha. 

LL is in own house and stronger than 6H, 6L. 

There is a very strong Dhan Yoga and Raj Yoga in a horoscope. 
10" Lord aspects 3rd house and 9" Lord. 

Indu lagna is having relation with 2% Lord and 11% Lord, and 9” 
lord. Therefore making a person very wealthy. 


IWuscration - 10 


DOB: 9-11-1941; TOB: 11:55; Lat 31:35N Long 74:53E 


The person is an JAS Officer. Now retired. 

All the planets are scatterect aJ] over the chart. No influence of 
Poorna Parmatamamsa Planets on Lagna & 1OH/L 

Saturn aspect 10H in D/1, D/9 and D/10 also. 

6th Lord has gone to 10H and is being aspected by LL. 6H/OL is 
stronger. 

PAC of 2,9,11 is with 10° House 

3 lord has exchanged places with t0 L and 9" Lord has gone to 
10H. 

Indu Lagna is Aquarius with 26 points and its lord Saturn. has 22 


64 


Astrology of Professions Self Emplayment or Service 


Nlustration - 10 
Birth Chart 


9 Nov. 1941 
41:55 am. 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
00°18’ 23°25: 19°58’ 18°02’ 04°48’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
26°55’ 10°02’ 02°42’ 27°54’ 27°54 


Pa 


: a 
Dashamsh 
Ket 
Mes 


65 


Seif Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


points. This shows limited wealth. 


@ Dasha: He became an IAS officer in the dasha of Saturn and joined 
service in Saturn Dasha. 


Itiustration - || 


DOB: 3-10-1974; TOB: 12:25; Lat 28:40N Long 77:13E 
This individual is an Engineer. 
@ There are 5 planets from 7 to 12 houses. 
@ 10H has influence of two Poorna Parmatamamsa Planets. 


@ Saturn is 10L in Navamsha and aspects 10H. In Dashamsha Saturn 
is Lagna lord. 


Jup (R} 


IRustration -11 
Birth Chart 


3 Oct. 1974 
12:25 am. 


Lagna Sun -Moon Mars Mercury 
05°26' 16°10’ 07°41' 19°51’ 11°46' 
Jupiter Venus Saturn . Rahu Ketu 
16°04’ 07°20’ 24°39" 16°33" 18°33 


Navamsha 


Astrology of Professions Self Employment or Service 


Ket 
Jup 
Ven 


Dashamsha - 


6" Lord is posited in 10H and has exchanged places with [GL 
5,9,11 lords are placed in 10° housg and 10% and 11” Lords have 
exchanged places. - 7k ye. 

3" lord Saturn aspects 9th house wéigse lord is in 10H. 

Indu Lagna in Karka with 35 points Dit.its lord is weak with 24 
points (limited wealth) 

He joined service on 16-10-2000 in dasha of Sun/Saturn. Sun in 
10 H in the sign of Mercury and Saturn is 10" from 10” (7 house 


pad prapti). 


illustration - 12 


DOB: 4-2-{964; TOB: 14:20; Dethi 


He joined service initially worked for three years but entered In 


the business and has been successful since then. 


In this horoscope seven planets from 7" to 12” H would indicate 
business. 

In Navamsha there are six planets from 10" to 3* H. 

Saturn is in the Mooltrikone and is Gocharastha. 9L Saturn is in 
the 9H along with 5° and 12" L Venus. Luck and fortune seems 
to have connection with foreign country. This native is also doing 
export-import business. In D-9 Saturn is exalted in the 12H. In D- 
10 Saturn is again in Mooltrikone sign. 

1OL jupiter is in the 1QH and Jupiter aspects Dhan bhava 2H. 
Stronger the 10H and 10L the person goes to self-employment. 
In successful business one needs to be more _ industrious, 
hardworking therefore 3H assumes importance as the significator, 
and the linkage of 3,9 and 10H assumes added importance. 


67 


Self Employment or Service Astrology of Professions 


Hlustration - 12 
Birth Chart 


4 Feb. 1964 
14:20 hrs. 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
03°51’ 2112 08°28’ 24°02’ 27°46 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
206 28°49' 00°55’ Whaat ae 47°17 


Ven 


wae 


EI ° 


68 


Astrology of Professions Self Empla;:nent or Service 


Vikram improves if connection is established with 9L and JOL. 
Here 3L Sun is in the 8H with exalted Mars and Mars aspects 3H. 
In Navamsha Mars Is in the 10H gets directional strength. 

In D-10 Sun is exalted in the 10H. 

Dhan-yogas — in this birth chart placement of Jupiter is in the own 
sign and Venus Is in the 9H is good for wealth. The 2L Moon is 
in the 5H and 5L Venus is in 9H with OL Satur. 11L Mars is 
exalted in the 8H and aspects Its own house and Jupiter aspects 
dhan bhava. : 

Indu lagna is Gemini, Indu Lagnesh is in the 7H and aspects its 
own house which is good for wealth and prosperity. 


Dashas 


Joined service for three years in the dasha of Jupiter/Saturn in july 
1983 to June 1986@. Saturn is very strong in al! three divisional 
charts. In Birth Chart Saturn aspects 6H and in Navamisha Saturn 
aspects 6H. 

Entered into the business in the dasha of Jup/Mer in 1986.M.D 
lord Jupiter which isi0OL is in the 10H of karma and AD lord 
Mercury is LL; 4L; Is in the Kendra; and aspects its own house. 
Mercury is the significator for business. 

In Jup/Ven the native had started export -import business in 1987. 
Jup 10L and Venus 5 and 12L placed in the 9H conjunct with 9L 
Saturn. 


[ustration - 13 


DOB: 15-7-1953; TOB: 02:02:00; Kanpur < 


6 planets in 10th to 3rd house, it generates self-employment. 
Saturn is yogkarak planet in this birth chart. Vargottarna in D-9 and 
in D-10 Saturn is in the Mooltrikone in 11% H is Gocharastha. 
10° H Aquarius and 10® L Saturn is in 5" H aspects the 11° H and 
2™ H. 11" L Jupiter also aspects the 10 L. 

3 H for efforts. Malefic is good in 3'* H. Ketu Mer (Retrograde) 
and Mars the Karka for 3'° H aspects 10" and 9" L Saturn. 
Dhan yogas - Gajkesari yoga is found in Birth chart as well as in ° 
Navamsha. 

Indu Lagna is Sagittarius and SLL Jupiter is placed in inimical sign 
and there is no benefic aspect on Indu lagna. 


69 


Seif Employment or Service 


3 
Mars Sun 
4 


Ket 
Mer (R) 


Lagna 
10°31' 
Jupiter 
21°52’ 


2 
Lag 
Ven 
Jup 


Astrology of Professions 


iNustration - 13 
Birth Chart 
15 Jul. 1953 

02:02 
Kanpur 


Sun Moon Mars Mercury (R) 
28°31" 1118. 27°04 14°46' 
Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
14°36’ 27°42’ 10°02" 10°02 


Lag Ven 
Rah 


Mer 


Dashamsha 


70 


Astrology of Professions Self Es sloyment or Service 


Wustration - 14 


DOB: 7 fun 1968; TOB: 04:02 am; Delhi 


Six planets in 10 to 3rd H. 

Saturn is yogkarka planet, 9th & 10th L in 11% H. 

10th -L Saturn is in the 11th of gains. Jupiter 11th L aspects the 
10H. 

Linkage of 3, 9, 10H. 3rd L Moon aspects 9 & i10OL Sat from 5 H. 
Dhan yoga -9 and 10L Saturn is placed in the 11H of gains and 
{tL Jupiter is placed in the Kendra. 2L is in the own sign. 

[ndu lagna is Virgo and Indu Lagna Lord Mercury is placed in own 


Illustration - 14 
Birth Chart 


7 Jun. 1968 
04:02 am. 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
00°13' 22°49 28°08’ 20°55: 08°35: 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
05°26" 19°08’ 29°08' 23°33: 23°33 


Navamsha 


Self Employment or Service . Astrology of Professions 


sign in 2H, 
(lustration - 15 


DOB: 05 Jun 1955; TOB: 16:30 pm; Dethi 
The person is in business 

Six planets from 7 to 12th H. 

Saturn Gocharastha exalted in lagna and purna yoga karak. 

10H Karaka rashi with exalted Jupiter and 10L Moon is debilitated 
in 2H. 

Linkage of 3,9,10H — 3L Jupiter is in the 10H and 9L Mer is in the 


tllustration - 15 
Birth Chart 
§ Jun. 1955 
16:30 pm. 
Dethi 


ee lt 
Sat (R} 

Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
16°15' 20°46' 19°21’ 13°34’ 05°31" 
Jupiter Venus Satum Rahu Ketu 
05°19’ 27°11" 22°43’ 03°06’ 03°06’ 


72 


Astrology of Professions , Self Employment or Service 


Navamsha 


9H conjunct with Mars. 
@ Dhan yoga — Sasa yoga and Hamsa yoga is formed in this 
horoscope. . 
@ Indu Lagna is Libra and LL is in the 7H and aspects its own sign 
and Purna. Yoga karak Saturn is exalted in Libra. 
Self employment and service are two major streams in profession. 
A separation of these two makes it that much more easy for one to 
focus on the profession. 


The First Salary 


ait fasfa ada aa wart qe a ate, 
we wa wot aus wa, awa af fer atu 
Bhagwan Shiva explains that no one ts clever and no one is 
foolish, we alt do whatever and whichever, he desires us to do. 

The earning of first salary is a milestone in the life of all of us. We 
reach this milestone at the appointed time which can be ascertained 
from the horoscope. One of the basic tenets of astrology is that the 
dasha is the ‘Timer’ of all events; it so organizes “the time” that the 
vessel of time “kaal patra” is placed in a correct position, its mouth 
uncovered waiting for the transit to deliver, to deposit the first salary 
in it. 

The methodology is that principles which govern the examination 
are spelled out. [n the light of these principles six horoscopes are 
examined and the veracity of the principles is tested, and, if need be, 
modified. The examination procedure is that the natal horoscope of the 
individual is taken up, each principle is applied and the application of 
principles! to 3 are shown practically on this horoscope, the transit is 
then examined and the applicability of principles 4 and 5 is shown. At 
the end of this examination a table has been appended where the 
applicability of these principles is shown in a tabular form and the 
percentage worked out. 


The Principles 


Principle ! 
The Amatyakarak (AmK) planet should influence the MD/AD or be 


74 


Astrology of Professions The First Salary 


in the 10th or 11th signs from them. 


Principle 2 

The five karka planets are Atmakarak (AK), Amatyakarak (AmK), 
Putrakarak (PK}, Darakarak (DK), and the Sth lord. They are givers of 
gains. Any two or more out of these five should be aspecting the MD/ 
AD rashi. 


Principle 3 
Indu- Lagna/Indu Lagnesh should be influencing the MD/AD or 
be in 10th of 11th from them. 


Principle 4 
The AmK.jin transit should be either influencing the MD/AD 
should be in 10th or 11th from it. 


Principle 5 
Saturn and Jupiter in transit should be establishing connection 
with the 10H or the1lOL from Lagna. 


Note. All influences considered are PAC connections of Jaimini-System., 
Wlustration - | 


DOB: !3-07-1972; TOB: 11:00 Hrs.; Ghaziabad 
First Salary —- September 1995 
Chara Dasha — Sagittarius/Taurus 

Sun is AMK. Sun, is the 12thlord from the Ascendant. Sun is 2" 
lord from natal Moon. He is posited in the 10° house where he is 
digbali, and as such has directional strength in the life of native. He is 
well placed in the strongest Kendra. The 10th House-the Karma-sthan. 


Application of principtes 


Principle | 

Sun the AmkK is establishing two way relations with MD and MDL. 
Sun is influencing the MD-Sagittarius and also its lord Jupiter. Sun is 
also influenced by the MD-Sagittarius and lord Jupiter. 


Principle 2 
The five karka planets in the horoscope are-AK-Moon, AmK- Sun, 
PK-Saturn. DK Jupiter (R), and 5th lord is Saturn again. Jupiter- the DK, 


fo 


The First Salary Astrology of Professions 


Hiustration - 4 
Birth Chart 
43 Jul. 1972 


11:00 
Ghaziabad 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
07°32’ 27°26 28°22’ 5°44! 23°41 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
07°42’ 25°02" 21°49’ 2°34: 02°31' 


Astrology of Professions The First Salary 


Sun the AmK influenced the MD and Moon the AK, aspects the AD- 
Taurus. Also notice Venus the BK and PK and 5" lord Saturn are posited 
in this rashi. It is thus seen that 4 karka planets are influencing the AD 
and 2 karka planets are influencing the MD. 


Principle 3 

Indu- lagna for this horoscope is Aries. Indu-lagna-lord is Mars. 
Indu lagna-lord Mars aspects the AD (Taurus).Indu-lagna itself is the 
10” from Indu-lagna lord-Mars. 


Principle 4 

In September when the native drew his first salary, Sun the AmK 
was transiting in Virgo Rashi which is the Ascendant. Sun was aspecting 
the10th house, in addition to the MD-Sagittarius. Notice that Sun was 
also transiting the 10" house from the MD. 


Principle 5 

In transit Saturn was in Pisces and Jupiter was in Sagittarius. Both 
were aspecting the 10" house together. 10™ house was appropriately 
activated and blessed by two prominent planets. 

The native’s quest for a good opening in the professional life was 
blessed by twelve years long Sagittarius dasha at 17 years of age. This 
dasha influenced all the four Kendras. Sagittarius is also the 6" house 
from Moon, so competitive success is on the cards. 


Illustration - 2 


DOB: 29-01-1940; TOB: 19:45 Hrs.; Jalandhar (Punjab) 
First Salary - May 1964 
Chara dasha — Sagittarius/Gemini 

The Amatyakarak planet is Venus. It is the 3rd and 10th lord from 
lagna and 2nd & 9th lord from Moon. It is posited In the 7“ house from 
lagna and 6th house from Moon (house of competition). It is placed 
In a house which also happens to be the Indu-lagna. Its strength is 
further enhanced by being posited in the rashi of a fast friend Saturn 
who is the lord of Indu-lagna and a karka planet (DK) and who also 
aspecting it from 9°° house. 


77 


The First Salary 


Astrology of Professions 
f™ 
5 Jup 
us 
| Hlustration - 2 
Birth Chart 
2 29 Jan, 1940 
19:15 hrs. 
Jalandhar 
12 
Jup Mars 
Lagna Sun Moon _ Mars Mercury 
08°41’ 15°30’ 19°20’ 24°24’ 13°58’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
12°29’ 20°27’ 02°21’ 00°04’ 00°04’ 


Dashamsha 


78 


Astrology of Professions The First Salary 


Application of the principles 


Principle ! 

It is not strictly applicable at the first salary, but is applicable on 
the date of joining duty, when the AD was of Cancer, which was being 
aspected by AmK-Venus. Joining of duty leads to get salary therefore 
application of principle is in order. 


Principle 2 

The five karka planets are: AK-Mars, AmK-Venus, PK-Mercury, DK- 
Saturn and 5th lord-Jupiter. Fwo of the five karaka planets i.e. AK-Mars 
and 5th lord-jupiter are aspecting MD-Sagittarius and AD-Gemini. 
Notice that Gemini is also the 10th rashi from Moon. 


Principle 3 

Indu-lagna for this horoscope is Aquarius which has AmK. Venus 
is placed in it. Indu-lagna lord is Saturn who is DK and sitting in the 
1ith rashi from AD Gemini aspecting Indu-lagna thus strengthening it. 


Principle 4 

AmK Venus who was transiting in Libra at the time of first salary 
and was aspecting Leo, the sixth house and Venus (Natal AmK). It was 
also placed in the 11th rashi from MD Sagittarius. 


Principle 5 

In transit Jupiter was in Aries and Saturn was in Aquarius. Saturn 
was sitting with Venus (AmK) and Jupiter was aspecting them. 

The native got a good professional break when he was of 23 years 
of age and when the dashas, karkas and the relevant house: got 
favourably activated according to our principles. He joined Karma- 
Chand Group as an assistant manager. In this case four out of five 
principles are getting applied completely and one with minor variation/ 
modification. 


Ilustration - 3 


DOB: Mars - 13-10-1980; TOB: 05:15 Hrs.; Delhi 
First Salary — 09-01-1980 
Chara Dasha — Libra/Virgo 
The AmK is Venus who is the 2nd and 9th lord from lagna and 4th 
and 9th tord from Moon. It is placed in the 12th house from lagna and 


79 


The First Salary Astrotoegy of Professions 


oN 
6 
Lag 
Rah z 
Sun 
no | Ittustration - 3 
Birth Chart 
| _ 13 Oct. 1959 
Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
10°27" 25°36' 13°01’ 01°02' 12°27 
é Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
08°04’ 43°30' 08°18’ 10°43’ 10°43’ 


Navamsha Fy 


Ea Dashamsha 
Lag 
Rah 


ia ie 


80 


Astrology of Professions The First Salary 


7th house from Moon. It Is aspected by Mercury the lagna lord and 
10th lord from lagna and Mars the 10th lord also 3rd lord from Moon. 
Thus the AmK has some strength because of. Influences upon it. 


Application of the Principles 


Principle | 
AmK Venus is influendng the MD-Libra and is sitting In the 11th 
rashi from the MD. 


Principle 2 

The Karka planets in this case are AK-Sun, AmK- Venus, PK~Saturn, 
DK-Mars and the Sth lord who is again Saturn. At the drawal of first 
salary three karka planets were influencing the rashi dashas. AK Sun is 
placed in Virgo and DK Mars was transiting in Libra. Apart from this, 
PK-Saturn is aspecting Virgo. 


Principle 3 
Indu-lagnesh Saturn is aspecting Virgo (AD). 


Principle 4 
In March, when the native received his first salary the AmK-Venus 
was aspecting MD-Libra. 


Principle 5 

At the same time, both Saturn and Jupiter were transiting in Leo 
from where they were together aspecting the 10th lord Mercury placed 
In Libra, leading to the fructification of the event. 

The AmK Venus is placed in the 12th house from lagna and 7th 
house from Moon being in a Kendra from Moon. This explains why the 
native started his career as a clerk in the State Bank of India but later 
qualifying In a competitive examination for Probationary Officer he rose 
to the level of Manager. This case is an illustration of how with 
moderately strong AmK, a native can rise in his profession. 

In this case all the five prindples are getting applied fully. 


iltustration - 4 

DOB: 30-4-1945; TOB: 9:00 Hirs.; Deihi 
First Salary — August [968 

Chara Dasha -— Aries/Virgo 

Mandook Desha — Sagittarius/Capricorn 


81 


The First Salary Astrofogy of Professions 


Mars 
Mer 
Ven (R) 


Ittustration - 4 
Birth Chart 
30 Apr. 1945 
09:00 


12 
Wars 


Mer 
Ven (R) 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
7°57" 16°20’ 16°18’ 04°49" 24°07’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
24°45' 25°01’ 13°23 17°45’ 17°45 


Dashamsha se 


Lag 
§ 


a 


82 


Astrology of Professions The First Salary 


The 10* house of this horoscope is strong because of the presence 
of exalted Venus (AK). Lagna-lord Mercury (though debilitated) and 6* 
and 11% lord Mars who is Digbali. 10° House also happens to be the 
Indu-lagna. 

The AmK for this horoscope is Jupiter who is the 7" and 10° lord 
form lagna and 2™ and 5" lord from Moon. It is placed in the 3 house 
from jagna and 10% house from Moon, in friend Sun’s house. Sun in 
exaltation is aspecting Jupiter. The AmK is well-placed in the house of 
Parakram and is well aspected. The 10" house, owned by the AmK, is 
also strong. 


Application of the Principles 


Principle | 
Chara dasha-Jupiter the AmK is aspecting MD Aries. 
Mandook dasha-Jupiter the AmK is aspecting AD Capricorn. 


Principle 2 

The five Karaka planets are AK-Venus, AmK-Jupiter, PK-Moon, DK- 
Mars and 5" lord-Venus agaln. 

Chara dasha- 2 Karkas, AmK-Jupiter and PK-Moon aspect MD 
Aries. 

Mandook dasha- 4 Karkas i.e. (AK, DK) aspect Sagittarius rashi 
and (AmK, PK) aspect Capricorn rashi. 


Principle 3 

Indu-lagna for this horoscope is in Pisces in the 10" house from 
lagna and 5" house from Moon. It is well occupied by AK, BK, and Dk. 
Its lord Jupiter is also'well placed and aspected. 

Chara dasha — Indu-lagnesh aspects MD-Arles. Indu-lagna along 
with ite occupants aspects AD-Virgo. 

Mandook dasha — Indu-lagna aspects MD-Sagittarius and Indu 
lagnesh Jupiter aspect/ AD-Capricorn. 


Principle 4 


In August 1968 AmK-Jupiter was transiting in Leo rashi where me 
natal AmK Planet is posited. 


Mandook dasha ~ He was aspecting AD - Capricorn. 


Principle 5 
Saturn was transiting In Aries, aspecting 10" lord Jupiter and 


83 


The First Salary Astrology of Profassions 


Jupiter was transiting in Leo over natal 10° lord-Jupiter. 

As it is quite obvious in this case that a bright and gainful 
professional future Is In store. The native joined a big industrial house 
as a design engineer at the age of 23 years. 

Here again we witness a complete application of ail the principles. 


Illustration - 5 


DOB: 15-03-1943; TOB: 00:30 Hrs.; Ambala 
First Salary — 24-10-1964 
Chara dasha ~ Gen.ini/Taurus 
The AmK planet is Jupiter. It is the 2% and 5" jord from lagna and 
7* and 10® lord from Moon. It is inimically placed In the 8" house from 


The AmK is in mutual aspect with 10" lord Sun and Indu-lagnesh the 
exalted Venus. This makes the AmK’s position fairly decent except that 
of occupation of 8" House. 


Application of the Principles 
Principle | 


The AmK Jupiter itself is posited In the MD- Gemini, and is 
aspecting the 10® rashi from it. 


(Itustration - § 
Birth Chart 


15 Mar. 1943 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
18°00' 00°15" 10°58’ 11°37’ 12°39" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
22°07’ 28°13' 43°44’ 01°35’ 01°35’ 


84 


Astrology of Professions The First Salary 


Navamsha in 
Moon 
Mer 


Principle 2 

The karka planets in this case are AK- Venus, AmK-Jupiter, PK- 
Mars, DK-Sun and 5 lord-Jupiter again. Two karka planets AK-Venus 
and DK-Sun are aspecting Gemini-MD and One karka planet Jupiter 
who ts both AmK and 5® lord Is posited in Gemini-MD itself. 


Principle 3 
indu-lagna is Libra and Indu lagnesh Venus who fs exalted and is 
aspecting Gemini-MD. It fs also sitting in the 10° sign from MD. 


Principle 4 
At the first salary (October, 1964) The AmK-Jupiter was transiting 
in Aries, which Is the 11 sign from MD-Geminl. 


Principle 5. 
Jupiter was transiting in Aries and was aspecting 10° house from 


85 


The First Salary Astrology of Professions 


lagna and Saturn was transiting in Aquarius aspecting 10” house also 
but by Parashari aspect not of Jaimini. 

The only blemish the AmK Jupiter has fs that it is placed In the 8” 
house from lagna. The result was that the native joined as a teacher in 
a Government School but rose to the position of the principal. 

Here again we observe complete application of all five principles. 


IMustration — 6 


DOB: 03.09.1961; TOB: 7.30 Hrs.; Dethi 
First Salary — 01-08-1983 
Chara dasha — Scorpia/Virgo 

The AmK pianet- Sun is the 12 lord from lagna and 3® lord from 
Moon and is posited in the 12" house from lagna and 3™ house from 
Moon in own rashi ~ Leo but in Rahu/Ketu axis. 


Applications of the Principle 


Principle ! 
The AmK-Sun is placed in the 10° house from MD-Scorpio. 


Principle 2 
The Karka planets of this horoscope are AK-Mars, AmK-Sun, PK- 


Mlustration - 6 
Birth Chart 


3 Sep. 1961 
Sat (R) 07:30 
sup (R) Delhi 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
05°57’ 17°00’ 00°00’ 17°37" 03°43’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
04°40’ 11°59’ 00°24' 03°49' 03°49’ 


86 


Astrology of Professions tne First Salary 


Lag 
Mar 
Jup 
am -_ Zs 


Mercury, DK-Moon and 5" lord-Saturn. 3 Karka planets i.e. AK-Mars, 
PK~Mercury and DK-Moon are Infuendng AD-Virgo. 


Principle 3 

The Indu-lagna is Gemini and Indu-lagnesh Mercury is posited in 
AD-Virgo. Indu lagna is In 10° from Virgo and Is aspecting It. Indu 
lagnesh Mercury is also posited in 11" frony MD-Scorplo. 


Principle 4 
AmK Sun was transiting in Cancer at the first salary. It was 
aspecting MD-Scorpio and was posited in 11% rashi from AD-Virgo. 
Saturn was transiting In Libra and Jupiter was in Scorpio and they 
were neither influencing the 10" house nor the 10* lord from lagna. 
As the AmK Is of average strength and Is placed in the 12™ house, 
the native started his career as an engineering trainee. 


87 


The First Salary Astrology of Prafessions 


In this case four out of five principles are getting applied fully. 
One princlple does not apply at all. 

First salary is a milestone. Pinpointing the period of the earning of 
first slary by a person permits an astrologer to focus on the likely 
profession in finer details. 


Periods of Rise in Profession 


qaa feat a tata aRaacst aoa sit 
aeafiria ars anrddt aan 
Shree (wealth) provides fleeting fun and happiness, it is like 

"Ganika" a woman of streets - no commitment no permanance; 

Vagdevi (Saraswati) is like a dutiful wife cammitted and 

permanent for many lives. 

In this world of ours all actions are motivated by desire. It is desire 
alone that prompts, prods and goads us into performing a particular 
- action. A period of professional rise is the one where our past actions 
yield our desired results. Desires, however, have no limits. But the 
fulfilment of a desire depends upon one’s capability to perform an 
action and see that action fructify. The astrologer Is able to assess that 
capability as also its resultant fruit. 

Desires motivate a person into performing an action. Our actions 
are the seeds, which sprout into our destinies. It is the non-fulfilment 
of our desires, which brings about frustration. There are various reasons 
why our actions or karmas may not manifest into our desired results. It 
is also true that our actions may produce results only at a specific time 
or to a particular extent. This element of uncertainty is the “Daiva” of 
the Gita, The one who knows this “Daiva” is known as “Dalbajna,” the 
knower of the divine will. Without the divine will, the best of our 
actions, performed under the best of circumstances fails to yield the 
desired results. The astrologer is known as the “Daibajna,” for he can 
foresee whether or not an individual Is going to reap the harvest that 
he has so much cherished. The aim of astrological guidance is to 
identify the potentialities of an individual and to guide him to achieve 


89 


Periods of Rise in Profession Astrology of Professions 


his. goal. 


Timing of Events 

Mahadeva, the celebrated author of the Jataka tattwa, opens the 
fifth chapter, the “Dasha Tattwa” of his treatise with the following 
shloka: 

“Graho Bhavo Rashi Drigyoga Jeevikadiphalam 
Swadsantardshayam Dadati.” 

‘A planet produces its results of placement in a house, 
location in a sign, its aspects, its conjunctions, the means of 
livelihood attributed to it, during its dasha and antardasha.” 

This gives us an idea of two aspects of study of a planet or a 
combination. One of them is the promise inherent in a horoscopic chart 
because of the position of a planet in the chart and the other 
qualifications that attend upon it, e.g., its locations, its conjunctions, its 
aspects, and the like. This is the static factor. The other and no Jess 
significant is the dynamic factor, which decides when this promise 
would fructify. This depends upon the dasha system which is the 
celestial timer which indicates the time when an event would happen. 
In order to study the periods of professional rise, naturally the inherent 
promise of the chart has to be integrated with the dasha order. 


The relevant parameters 
The important parameters that need to be considered are briefly 
mentioned hereunder: 

@ The three divisional charts — The rashi chart forms the basis of 
all horoscopic analysis. Study of its more subtle form, the 
Navamsha along with the rashi chart is essential. In addition, in 
order to study professional rise (or fall), the Dashamsha is another 
divisional chart, which must be keenly studied. In ali charts, the 
tenth house indicates profession. In addition, the lagna of the 
dashamsha is also important. 

@ The Pada Lagna — The Pada Lagna is the sign located as far from 
the lagna lord as the lagna lord is from the lagna. The Pada Lagna 
acts as an alternative lagna and the tenth from the Pada Lagna 
also indicates profession. 

® Important Dashas — According to Parashara, the dashas of the 
lagna Jord, the tenth lord and the exalted planets augur well for 
the status of an individual. These dashas also indicates rise in 
profession. A connection of these dasha lords with the seventh 
house or the seventh lord improves their fructification. 


90 


Astrology of Professions Periods of Rise in Profession 


@ Role of the Amatya karaka (AmK) — The AmK is the planet, 
which is the second highest advanced in degrees (of longitude) in 
any given sign. Planets under the influence (association or aspect) 
of the AmK augur well for professional rise. 

@ Favourable Transits — In transit, the dasha planets should 
influence key professional areas, including tenth house/tenth lord, 
the sixth house/sixth lord, and the lagna/lagna lord. 


Itestration - | 

The native of this chart was born in November 9, 1968 at 12:43 
hrs (IST) in Delhi. 

Son of a humble temple priest he got selected into a technical 


IIlustration - 4 
Birth Chart 
9 Nov. 1968 


12:45 
Delhi 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
16°55: 23°32 08°28' 06°36’ 07°50’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
05°26’ 29°47’ 26°47" 15°30 15°30: 


Navamsha 


91 


Periods of Rise in Profession Astrology of Professions 


Lag Rah Jup 
Ven 


Dashamsha 


" re! 


educational course in 198@ during the dasha of Jupiter- Saturn (Aug 
1986 — Feb 1989}. In April 1991, during the dasha of Jupiter- Mercury 
(Feb 1989 — May 1991), he was selected into the Indian Administrative 
Service (IAS) and is presently working as Deputy Commissioner in an 
Eastern state of India. The pada lagna in this chart in Vrisha (Taurus) 
while the AmK is Saturn. 

Jupiter is the Mahadasha Lord (MD) and is located in the ninth 
house from the lagna, a favourable house, in close association with 
Mars, a conjunction of the eleventh and the twelfth lords. The classic 
Bhavartha Ratnakara states that 

“A conjunction or mutual aspect between the eleventh and the 
twelfth lords is productive benefic results.” 

Jupiter thus attains the capability to produce benefic results. The 
aspect of the lagna lord Saturn from the house of Jupiter is a welcome 
addition. 

Examined from the Moon, Jupiter is the tenth lord aspecting its 
own house, the tenth, from the fourth. Saturn, the ninth lord in the 
tenth and in mutual aspect with the tenth iord Jupiter forms a potent 
Raja Yoga. 

From the Pada Lagna (Vrisha) Saturn is the yogakarak: being the 
lord of the ninth and the tenth houses, aspected by the eleventh lord 
Jupiter. The dasha of Jupiter is again considered to be auspicious and 
according to the Bhavartha Ratnakara, which says, 

“tf the tenth and eleventh lords are mutually related (by aspect or 
conjunction) a Raja Yoga will ensue during the dasha of the eleventh 
Jord.” 

Jupiter also happens to be the eighth lord from the Pada Lagna, 
located in the fifth house. It thus attains the capability of conferring on 


a2 


Astrology of Professions Periods of Rise in Profession 


the native sudden and unexpected gains and recognition. 

The auspiciousness of Jupiter is further confirmed in the Navamsha 
where, as the tenth lord, it exchanges houses with the ninth lord 
Saturn, resulting in a potent Raja-Yoga. A similar situation persists in 
the Dashamsha where, as the lagna lord and the tenth lord, Jupiter 
exchanges houses with the fourth lord Mercury. 


Saturn (Antardasha Lord) 

Saturn is the lagna lord, also lord of the tenth from the pada lagna 
and located in the tenth house from the Moon. Its important role in the 
Navamsha has already been indicated. In the Dashamsha, Saturn as the 
eleventh lord, associated with the ninth lord Mars, located in the fifth 
house, has a potential to boost the effects of Jupiter in causing a 
professional rise. 

In the Navamsha, Mercury as the lagna Jord is located in the 
seventh house of public acclaim. !t occupies the tenth house in the 
Dashamsha, exchanging houses with tenth lord as well As the Lagna 
lord Jupiter, an excellent combination of the lords of the houses of 
happiness and karma. When these two lords are the MD and AD lords 
‘ why would this period not be called a lucky period? 


Role of AmK (Saturn) 

Saturn aspects the MD lord Jupiter, which is a very desirable 
' factor. {ts own AD had to prove useful. In the Navamsha, it gets 
involved in a major Raja Yoga with Jupiter, and aspects Mercury, the 
other important AD lord, in the seventh house. In the Dashamsha, as 
the eleventh lord in the fifth in association with the ninth lord, it only 
proves its beneficence. Saturn further ensures its continued 
benevolence since its Mahadasha will follow that of Jupiter. 


Transits 

On 2 April 1991, the time around which the individual got a 
major jump in his career. 

Jupite: the MD lord, is exalted in the seventh house, an 
alternative house of profession. It aspects the natal Venus, the tenth 
lord, and also the tenth house from the natal Moon, and the tenth lord 
from the Pada lagna, thus fully activating the natal tenth house by its 
aspect from the second house. In the Dashamsha, it aspects the lagna 
from the fifth house. 

Mercury, the AD lord aspects the tenth house from its location, in 
the fourth house. In the Navamsha chart, it occupies the eleventh 


93 


Periods of Rise in Profession Astrology of Professions 


Itustration - 2 
Birth Chart 
12 Dec. 1951 


09:19 
Dehradun 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
26°53’ 26°07’ 12°22" 16°53’ 07°08’ 
Jupiter Venus Satur Rahu Ketu 
11°18’ 11°31" 20°08’ 10°36’ 10°36' 


Dashamsha 


Astrology of Professions Penods of Rise in Profession 


house, having already completed its transit on the tenth house, and 
also the exalted natal tenth lord. in the Dashamsha, it fs conjunct with 
the natal tenth lord after already compieting its transit over the lagna. 


INustration - 2 

Born on Dec 12, 1951, at 09;19 hrs (IST) at Lat 30:19 N and Long 
78:03 E; this native is an architect by profession. In Dec 1989 he got 
a contract to construct a major group of mills, -which was a turning 
point in his career. He has never looked back since. The dasha running 
at that time was Jupiter-Mercury (Oct 1989 to Feb 1992). The Pad lagna 
in this chart is Mithuna (Gemini) while the AmK is Saturn. 


Role of jupiter, the MD Lord 

Jupiter is the lord of the lagna aspecting the tenth house and in 
mutual aspect with Mars and Saturn jointly located in the tenth house. 
Mars and Saturn, respectively the lords of the fifth and the second 
house, in mutual aspect with the lagna lord in the 4/10 axis form a 
prominent Raja Yoga as well as Dhana yoga. Saturn’s aspect on Jupiter 
is also the aspect of AmK. 

From Pada lagna, Jupiter is the tenth lord located in the tenth 
house, aspected by the eleventh lord Mars and the ninth lord Saturn. 
A combination of the ninth, tenth and eleventh lords join the Bhagya, 
the Karma and the Labha in the highly desirable 4/10 axds. Mars and 
Saturn as the lords of the sixth and the eighth houses also add an 
element of difficulties and competitive nature. 

In the Navamsha, Jupiter ls again the lagna lord, aspecting the 
tenth lord Mercury from the eleventh house. In the Dashamsha, Jupiter 
as the fifth lord joins the second and eleventh lord Mercury in the 
seventh house, forming a potent Dhana yoga and promising an 
upsurge in Career. 


Antardasha of Mercury 

The retrograde tenth lord Mercury is located In the lagna. From 
the Pada Lagna, as the lagna lord, it occupies the favourable seventh, 
the alternate house of profession aspected by the eleventh lord Mars. 
The location of Mercury the AD lord, in the tenth from Jupiter, the MD 
lord, further enhances the promise inherent in this period. 

In the Navamsha, Mercury as the seventh and tenth lord occuples 
the seventh house, associated with Mars, the eleventh lord (causing a 
Dhana yoga) and aspected by Jupiter, the Lagna lord (causing a raja 
yoga). 


95 


Periods of Rise in Profession Astrology of Professions 


In the Dashamsha, Mercury as the second and eleventh lord, in 
the seventh house, ensures sudden upsurge in career. 


The Role of AmK 

Saturn as the AmK occupies the tenth house of the rashi chart. [In 
the Navamsha, it aspects the tenth house. In the Dashamsha, It aspects 
the tenth house, the tenth lord, as well as the lagna. 


Transits 

The MD lord Jupiter transiting In Gemini aspects the lagna 
occupied by the tenth lord Mercury. In the Navamsha chart, Jupiter 
transits, the tenth lord Mercury. In the Dashamsha, Jupiter in retrograde 
motion. influences the tenth house (Vrisha) and aspects the tenth lord 
(Venus). 

Mercury the AD lord, transits the tenth ford Mercury in the rashl 
chart. In the Dashamsha, however, Mercury, in the seventh house, 
misses the 10H and 10L. 


Hlustration - 3 

The birth details are, March 27, 1911; 19:45 hrs (IST); Lat 13:40 
N Long 80:15 E. The Individual got Into a regular Job In Jan 1955, 
which lasted for ten years. In this relatively ordinary horoscope, an 
appropriate dasha (Saturn-Venus), from July 1952 to Sept 1955 resulted 
in a steady Job. The Pada Lagna in this chart Is Tula (Libra) whlle the 


Hlustration - 3 
Birth Chart 


27 Mar. 1914 
19:45 


Lagna “Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
04°39" 13°10 05°44’ 17°27' 20°24' 
Jupiter Venus Satum Rahu Ketu 


20°53’ 11°47’ 12°48’ 17°52’ 17°§2’ 


96 


Astrology of Professions Periods of Rise in Profession 


AmK Is Mercury. 

From both the ascendant and the Pada lagna, Venus is in the 
seventh house. An exalted Mars aspects seventh house where the 
lagna lord, Rahu and Saturn are placed. The sixth lord Jupiter aspects 
seventh house where the lagna lord, Rahu and Saturn are placed. The 
sixth lord aspects the tenth lord, the Moon, in the fifth house. 
Professional areas are conspicuously bereft of the influence of the tenth 
lord. 


Role of Saturn, the MD lord 

Saturn Is the yoga-karaka from both the lagna and the Pada lagna, 
placed In the seventh house. From the Moon, Saturn as the lagna lord 
is aspected by an exalted tenth lord Mars, and exchanges houses with 
Mars. In the Navamsha, Saturn associates with the seventh lord Venus 
In the ninth house and aspected by AmK, Mercury. In the Dashamsha, 
it occupies the tenth house. : 


97 


Periods of Rise in Profession Astrology of Professions 


Antardasha of Venus 

Venus as the lagna lord as well as the Pada lagna lord occupies 
the seventh house. It is aspected by an exalted Mars, the tenth lord 
from the Moon. 

In the Navamsha, Venus as the seventh tord occupies the ninth 
and receives the aspect of AmK, Mercury. In the Dashamsha too, Venus 
is the seventh Jord in the ninth house. Mercury, the AmK, aspects the 
lagna of the Dashamsha from the seventh house. 


Transits 

The transit chart for Jan 10, 1955 may also be referred to Saturn 
is transiting in Libra and Venus is transiting in Scorpio. In the natal 
chart, the MD lord Saturn transits Jupiter, the sixth lord (service) and 
aspects the tenth house. In the Navamsha, Saturn transits on the tenth 
lord Sun. Venus, the AD lord, gets into the act in the Navamsha where 
it transits the Navamsha lagna. In the Dashamsha Saturn aspects the 
sixth house while Venus transits the lagna. 


Remaris 

The dasha can unfold an inherent promise in the horoscope chart. 
If the natal as well as the relevant divisional charts hold some promise, 
the dasha will make that promise fructify. In an ordinary horoscopic 
chart, the rise will also be only ordinary. On the other hand, when the 
basic horoscope is strong, the rise can be spectacular. The MD/AD of 
the lagna lord, the tenth lord, an exalted planet or the AmK, are 
important dashas. Planets associated with or aspected by the AmK also 
produce favourable results. 


98 


Professional Distress 


Pathemata Mathemata (German) 
“Sufferings are jessons’ 


In any profession, there are periods, which if left unattended 
cause distress. This distress is the result of two major factors. The first 
factor is the interaction of professional indicators that is the L/LL, 10H/ 
L and the AMK planet with the Trik houses (6, 8, 12) their lords and 
the 5H/L. The second factor is Dasha controlled. Dashas of planets 
connected with houses mentioned above, at their end or beginning 
can cause distress. Dashas of retrograde or debilitated planets along 
with planets in planetary war also may be potentially distress 
Producing. Sri K.N. Rao teaches one to be careful in Saturn/Venus or 
Rahu/Venus periods. The dasha’s make the package according to the 
yogas and planet’s position based promises and transit delivers it. The 
transit of dasha planets (MD, AD and PD Lords) in 5, 6, 8, 12, houses 
or over the Retrograde, Combust planets and the Lords of 5, 6, 8, 12 
houses triggers the period of crisis. 

Let us study this in an example horoscope. 


(Hustration - | 


DOB: 08 May !952; TOB: 01:44:00; Bombay 

This native was born with Mars dasha balance of 4 yrs 2 months 
at birth. The AD at birth was of Saturn. The MD and AD at birth give 
the glimpse, a fleeting look at the events of life. In this case we find’ 
the LL is placed in the 8” house in a retrograde mation the LL is badly 


2 


Professional Distress 


Lagna 
01°57’ 
Jupiter 
08°56’ 


Astrology of Professions 


Niustration - 1 
Birth Chart 
8 May. 1852 

01:44 


Bombay 
Sat (R) 
Moon 
Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
23°59’ 28°41' 14°56" 21°53 
Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
11°04’ 15°65" 03°59" 03°59’ 


Navamsha 


a le ba 


Dashamsha ja 


100 


Astrology of Professions Profess...nal Distress 


placed. Look at the 10" house Mars is the Lord. Mars is placed in 12" 
house from the 10% house. Both the MD and AD Lords are poorly 
placed from the Asc and the 10 house. The Jataka has the promises to 
run into professional distress by the dasha planets and executed by the 
transit planets. 

Let us now take a bird's eye view of the horoscope. The lagna is 
Aquarius at 1 Deg 51 Min. Rahu is placed in the Asc at 3 Deg 59 Min. 
Close conjunction of ASC and Rahu is the result. Asc Lord strengthens 
the Asc by aspecting it from the (R), position in the 7“ house. Close 
association of the Lagna and Rahu, when both are in Dhanishtha, a 
constellation ruled by Mars, the 3" and the 10“ Lord of this horoscope, 
inject imbalance and waywardness in efforts (3H) and professional 
decisions (10H) 

From the Moon sign if we examine we find that in this horoscope, 
Moon is in Virgo at 28°41°. This is again the constellation of Mars. This 
Moon is opposed by Mercury located in second house at 27°53’. Moon 
and Mercury aspect one another almost to a degree. Moon is the 6L; 
it ts placed in 8H conjunct 12 H Saturn. Moon has acquired the 
destabilizing and poorly focussed tendencies of the Trik houses, Add 
this to the wayward efforts of unbalanced professional approach and 
you have a person who at times would take bizarre, muddled and a 
shade self-destroying professional decisions. Mercury's debilitation 
infuses an arrogant superiority complex and condescending manner of 
talking to the others. 

The good points in the horoscope ase the exalted Sun - 7 L, 
exalted in 3H with two benefics Venus and jupiter, aspected by Mars 
the 3° and 10" L. He is married to a princess. 

There is an exchange of 3 and 9* Lords. The efforts are lucky. The 
person in normal times is on an excellent professional highway. 

In the D-9 Sun the 11L is in 2H and Mars the 2L is in 5H aspecting 
11H and the 5L (Saturn). 5L is his 8 H aspecting 11L in 2H and 2L in 
5H. A strong Dhan Yoga-riches in Navamsha. Riches flew in after 
marriage. Mercury and Moon are Vargottama in 6/12 axis. Through 
competitions are won with consummate skill but easy chances are 
muffed with regularity. Enigmatic personality results. 

The Natal chart has Saturn, the LL placed in the 8H aspecting the 
10H. Saturn is conjunct 6L Moon. This Saturn in the Navamsha 
continues to be in the 8” house. It continues to aspect the {OH and 
In this chart Saturn is the Yoga Karak planet being the lord of.4" of 5" 
houses. Saturn has the mutual aspect relationship with Mars. Note the 
placement of Mars in the 10% house from Saturn. In the D-9 we find 


401 


Professional Distress Astrology of Professions 


8* lord Venus in the 10H aspected by Saturn. We also find this fOL 
Moon in 12H aspected by 12L Mercury and Mars. The malefic 
influence of Saturn and Mars on the 10H and 10L and a poor 
placement of 10L in 12H makes the otherwise strong professional 
fabric weak and liable to be torn at a slight pull of adversity. 

Now to the Dashamsha. Saturn is the LL of this Chart. Mars is the 
10L of this chart. Saturn in 9H and Mars in Lagna are both excellently 
placed. Mars aspects Saturn so added power accrues. It Is worthwhile 
recollecting that Saturn & Mars enjoyed a close relationship in the D9 
also- and that they are the LL and 10L of Natal chart too. Profession is 
well starred. Moon & Mars are placed in the Lagna aspected by and 
aspecting Mercury. This is a connection of 5" 10" and 6" in lords. The 
person is professionally trained for his job; the entry for training Is by 
a competitive exam. The LL Saturn is aspected by Jupiter from 5™ 
house. Jupiter is the lord of 2" and the 11 houses in this chart. 2nd. 
and 11" lord aspecting LL in the 9th house ensures good remuneration 
for his job. The dhan-yoga in D-10 indicates a rich professional 
environment. 

To summarise, the horoscope is strong. The person would do 
service (Saturn aspects 10H and is with 6L, Saturn also influences the 
LL) The native would be a top end professional. The improvement of 
planets In the D-9- two Vargottama, Moon and Mercury. Jupiter in 9H 
exchanges signs with Mercury, this 9th lord resulting in a wealth 
producing planetary disposition. in D-10 the good placement of LL and 
1OL and a relationship of the wealth producing houses (2,5,9, &11) and 
their Lords indicate a well paid job. The native would cause problems 
for himself by poor judgement, arrogance and unbalanced approach. 

The crisis came in the outstanding profession of: the indtvidual in 
the period of Saturn/Mercury — 93-96 and continued till the end of 
Saturn/Moon in year 2003. The native suffered loss of job and 
humiliation. 

The prime reason is the promise in the horoscope of a potentially 
explosive situation. This needs the spark of a poor dasha to explode, In 
this horoscope, the key to the detonation is with Mercury. Mercury is 
the 5" Lord placed in 2™ house- the placement is good for money and 
speech. 5" Lord in its dasha, can, and does cause professional disasters 
because 5" house is the 8" house from the 10" house. Mercury in 
retrogration in 2H is prone to give satirical, malicious and 
condescending speech. Mercury opposed by Saturn is known to cause 
unjust humillatlons. Moon, Mercury opposition aid and abet poor 
decisions and the tendency to ralse justifications that heap abusive 


102 


Astrology of Professions Prevessional Distress 


blame on everyone else except one’s own self? Saturn is in 8H. 
Mercury is the 8L. Saturn is the 12L. So Saturn/Mercury caused sudden 
(8H) loss (12H). The presence of moon-the GOL further aggravated the 
situation as the person roundly berated his boss and debilitated 
Mercury in 2™ house can give words that will sting for years to come. 

Astrology can pin point the crisis period and help one prepare to 
deal with this crisis in the best manner. In this case the advise to this 
person could have been to be guarded in his conversation with his 
office colleagues. He could have profited also by voluntarily leaving his 
job in end 92, and picking up a fresh job or be, on an independent 
assignment for 6 to 9 months till the crisis period passed. This wou!dn't 
have caused distress to a well-educated, well-trained person. 


Illustration - 2 

Here is one more horoscope that is contemporary and denotes a 
loss of job due to the world wide trend where in the IT sector faced 
trimming and restructuring which led to a very large number of 
talented young persons losing their jobs. The examination will also take 
in the gain of a job a few months later. 


DOB: 15 Mar 1966; TOB: 15:10; Lucknow 

The loss of job we would focus on the interaction of the LL, 10L, 
the AmK planet with the “Trik” houses/Lords. We would also try and 
assess the promise regarding loss of job, of the planets in the 


Illustration - 2 
Birth Chart 
15 Mar. 1966 


15:10 
Lucknow 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
21°13 00°58' 76°40’ 44°09° 17°30 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
29°08' 16°56" 27°02: 04°20' 04°20 


Professional Distress Astrology of Professions 


horoscope. The promises we know fructify during their dasha/AD. 

In this case let us first see the professional promise in the 
horoscope. The horoscape has Moon the LL stationed in the 6" house. 
There is only one planet Venus who is in the “Kendras” in this 
horoscope, and even this lonesome benefic in Kendra has got a touch 
of the 6" house, as it is in a constellational exchange relationship with 
the Moon, who is in the 6" house. (Moon at 16 Deg 39 Min is in 
Sagittarius in Poorva Ashada, constellation of Venus, and Venus at 16 
Deg 56 Min in Capricorn is in Shravan, a constellation of Moon). The 
boy has a weak constitution. Here it is necessary to examine Mars 
Mercury duet. Mars and Mercury are at the same longitudinal degree 
in the horoscope. This closeness merges the yogakaraka Mars the 5" 
and 10 Lord with Mercury with the none too impressive lordship of 
the 12" and the 3“ houses. 10" lord Mars gets weakened by close 
contact with 12" lord Mercury. While we carry out a check form the 
Moon. We find that Mercury is the 10" lord and Mars is the 12" jord. 
The 10/12 link points to transfers and changes in the jobs. Loss of jobs 


104 


Astrology of Professions Professiona! Distress 


is promised. Examine another facet of Mars, the 10° lord from 
Ascendant and Mercury, the 10% L from Moon. These two are in the 
10° house in the Navamsha also. 

A few words on the 5™ house are due. 5° house is the house of 
wisdom. If afflicted this wisdom is used too cleverly causing harm to 
the professional aspirations as the 5" house is not located auspiciously 
vis-a-vis the 10° house. 

Mars is the 5" lord from the Ascendant and Scorpio is rising in the 
5 house. Ketu at 4 Deg 20 Min in Saturn's constellation aspected by 
Jupiter is in this house. Jupiter not only is the 6" lord but is more 
malefic as it is in “Mrityu Bhaga” and totally malefic as it forms Guru 
Chandal Yoga on 11/5 axis. Saturn the 8" Lord, and the constellational 
lord of Ketu in this horoscope aspects 5H and Ketu from the 8"' house. 
The 12 lord Mercury we have already seen is in degree conjunction 
with the 5" Lord Mars. It is in thus seen that this SH and SL from 
Lagna has imbibed the malefic odour of 6,8,12 lords. The notable 
mastermind for evil is Jupiter in “Mrityu Bhaga” and “Guru Chandal 
Yoga” make a potent potion. 

There is one more examination that is of interest. Look at the 
Dashamsha. Examine the Dhana Yoga in this divisiona) chart. Dhana 
yoga is the interaction of 2/5/9/11 houses/lords. In the D-10 chart we 
notice: 

@ 2L Mars in 5H 

@ 5L Saturn in 2H 
e@ i1L Sun in 2H 

@ OL Mercury in 5H 

We also notice Saturn the 5L aspects 11H, Mars the 2L and 
Mercury the QL also aspect the 11 H. 11L ( Sun) and 5L ( Saturn) are 
conjunct in 2H. 2L and 5L are in exchange of house situation. 2L and 
OL are also conjunct in 5H. A good and near complete Dhana yoga. 

A strong Dhana yoga in a service horoscope indicates the higher 
brackets of remuneration. The overcrowded 5" house and 10L (Moon) 
in 8" house in this divisional chart confirms frequent changes in the 
job(s). 


job Loss 
The native lost his job on 1 Nov 2002. The Dasha was Mars/ 


Venus/Jupiter. See the transit on | Nov 2002. 


Dasha planets 
Mars the MDL - He is yogakarak planet being the lord of 5" a 


105 


Professional Distress Astrology of Professions 


Jup 
Transit 
Job Loss 
1 Nov. 2002 fat 


trine and of the 10“, a Kendra. Its location in 9” house in the natal 
chart is good. It however is at planetary war with the 12L Mercury. 
This Mars came transiting in Virgo the house owned by Mercury the 
12™ Jord. Mars aspected, in the Natal chart, the 9H and the planets 
therein. Mars is the 12" lord from Moon. This transit of Mars in 3° 
house (movement) and the 3 house being owned by Mercury, the 
12” lord, coupled with the aspect on the natal Sun, Mars/ Mercury 
gave Mars the power to approve the termination of job. Should the AD 
and PD lords so decide? 

An examination from the Moon shows that the {2° L is 
transiting in the 10H. This 12L from Moon is not only transiting in the 
10H from Moon but it is also aspecting the 10" H from the Lagna. 
Mars gains potency to terminate the job. 

Venus the ADL — Venus in this horoscope has two profession 
related roles to play. in Natal chart it aspects the Ascendant and has 
exchanged constellations with the Lagna L. In the Navamsha, Venus 
the yogakarak planet, lord of 5" and the 10": is in the 6" house along 
with Saturn. In D-10 Venus is the LL. Venus gives sophistication and 
dignity to the job. It would cause little disturbance to the career. Venus 
was retrograde on 1 Nov 2002 and was thus erratic. 

Jupiter the PDL — As always one needs to be wary of the PDL. 
This Jupiter is evil. In Mrityu Bhaga and with Rahu its transit in Lagna 
in exalted sign caused the distress. How? The answer is in the 
divisional chart. Jupiter on 1 November, 2002 is transiting at 3 signs 22 
deg 27 min. That is in the 7“ Navamsha of Cancer, which is Capricorn. 
A Neecha Jupiter already infused with malefic qualities aspected the 9" 
house where the ‘Karmasthan”, the 10" house finds its “Moksha”. 
Incidentally Capricorn is the Lagna rashi of the Navamsha. 


106 


Astrology of Professions Professional Distress 


The PDL evil eye was helped by Saturn. Saturn was transiting 
in 12H in Retrograde position and at 4 Deg 49 Min it was in Scorpio 
Navamsha. Saturn added strength to Jupiter’s aspect by joining him 
and in jointly aspecting the 9" house. . 

The job loss was astrologically on cards. 


job Gain 
Let us discuss the Job gain at this juncture. It occurred on 1 May 


2003. The dasha was Mars/Sun/Moon and the Transit was :- 


Transit 
Job Gain 


1 May. 2003 


Mars the MDL — We have examined it for job loss. We know this 
is the Yogakarak planet. It has now transited in its sign of exaltation, 
in the 7” house of “Pad Prapti” and has aspected the 10" house and 
the 6L Jupiter in the Lagna. Mars has single handedly sewn the L, 6 
and 10 together to bring service within easy grasp. 

Sun the ADL — Sun the 2L in 9H is ideally suited for the grant 
of a service. It is transiting in the sign of its exaltation in the Natal 10” 
house where the Sun is also digbali. So a helping hand is extended to 
Mars the MD lord. 

Moon the PDL — Moon is the LL. Moon is transiting in 10” 
house. Moon has joined the lagna, that is the native, to the job that is 
in the 10" house. 

The dasha order and transit explain the job gain. By the way 
Jupiter on 1 May 2003 was at 3 signs 15 deg 16 min, that is in Scorpio 
Navamsha, the 11” house in D — 9 chart. Notice the two major transit 
shifts in case of loss of job and the gain of job. Where job was lost, 
Jupiter was transiting in “Neecha” Navamsha in the Navamsha chart, 
while at job gain, the same Jupiter was transiting in the 11" house of 


107 


Professional Distress Astrofogy of Professions 


the Navamsha in Scorpio, a sign owned by the MDL Mars. 


The following needs to be remembered:- 

@ Professional distress results due to interaction of L/LL, 10H/L and 
or the AmK planet with the “Trik” houses and their lords. 

@ The dasha/AD/PD of the planets that are combust, are in 
planetary war, are retrograde or are even jin “Mrityu Bhaga” 
accentuate distress. 

@ Dasha “Chidra” the ending and the beginning of MDs and in some 
cases ADs are periods that trigger distress. 

® These are main reasons and need careful consideration. 

Life is mixture of good and bad. One needs to develop 
equanimity and equipoise. Instead of cursing and sulking we need to 
accept the adversity. Our saints have said: 


area ara aa aa, qe dish 7 ya, 
ae ae wt wt @, a ae wt Hafen 


Accept what God gives you. 


108 


Profession - Focussed Analysis 


“! Know only what He let's me know" 


Analysing the horoscope is an art and each astrologer is an artist 
in this own right. Exactly like the world of art the world of astrologer 
also has schools. The artists are aware of the “Abstract” “Baroque” 
“Chiaroscuro” “Classicism” “Cubism” and “Modern” as these are the 
well-known schools of their world. In similar vein astrology has 
“Parashari” “Jaimini” “Horary” as well known and practiced schools. It 
is however left to individual practitioners to so delve in their chosen art 
form that their interpretations and presentations have their very own 
seal of authenticity and acceptance. Rembrandt is now synonymous 
with “Chiaroscuro” and is considered a master of isolating individual 
figures in lighter shades contrasting against stark, dark background to 
bring out pathos in his works. Picasso gave his own enduring and 
captivating artistic interpretation to “Cubism”. It is the school that lays 
down the boundaries but it is the artist whether he is a Rembrandt or 
a Picasso who within these boundaries gives recognisable and 
acceptable shape to his ideas. An astrologer is exactly like an artist 
‘who within the scientific bounds of rules and principles so analyses and 
marshals his examination that it draws out an inspired prediction. 

The rules and principles are required to keep the chosen issue 
firmly in focus. The astrologer has full freedom to examine the issue 
from any angle that he can think of and highlight the obtuse and not 
so easily discernible aspects. This is the way to the land of predictions. 

Let us take a horoscope and examine it, analyse it to find out the 


109 


Profession ~ Focussed Analysis Astrofogy of Professions 


likely profession. The minimum data that we need to analyse a 
horoscope for profession is:- 

@ The Charts — The Natal chart, the Navamsha chart and the 
Dashamsha chart are the bare minimum. 

@ The Ascendant — To get a clear view one needs to took at a chart 
from more than one viewpoint. The Natal chart is looked at from 
the lagna, the Pada Lagna and the “Karkansh” Lagna. Karkansh is 
the Lagna that is derived from the Atmakarak (AK) planet. The 
planet that has travelled the maximum longitude in any house is 
the AK. An easy way to pinpoint this planet is to examine the 
longitude (degrees and minutes of the planet ignoring the sign) 
of the planets. If planets at 14 deg 30 min, 12deg 30min, 16deg 
15min, 29deg 40min, 1deg 47min, 14 deg 7min etc were to be 
assessed for selecting the AK planet, it would be the one that has 
travelled 29 deg 40 min. The signs are to be ignored. This 
maximum degree planet’s Navamsha rashi becomes the 
“Karkansh” in the Natal chart. It is called the “Swansh” in the 
Navamsha chart. 

The Lagna in natal chart and its “Karma Kshetra” the 10H are our 
inclinations; it is the Navamsha derived. Lagna- the Karkansh that 
controls the fructifications. Planets gain or lose strength; as per their 
disposition in the Navamsha is standard teaching. 

The Ascendants and the 10th houses in the Navamsha and the 
Dashamsha are also to be examined. The Dashamsha is the roadmap of 
our profession-its verities, shades, ups and downs. 

@ The Yogas — Yogas are the embellishments; a bejewelled, well 
decked out career is what one aims for. The yogas are so many 
and so different are their interpretation that it becomes an almost 
impossible task to apply them meaningfully.. An acceptable way, 
to begin with would be to apply the Jaimini Raj yogas, these 
yogas are formed by 5 of the karakas - the AK, the AmK, the PK, 
the DK and the 5L. Their interaction decides the strength of the 
yoga. It is good to remember that the yoga would give effect 
according to its strength in the Navamsha. As one gets better the 
entire range of yogas can be used. 

@ The Dashas — The promises in any horoscope fructify when the 
dasha sequence favours it. For profession the dashas between 20 
to 50 years of age are most relevant. In most of the cases two or 
three dashas would need to be examined. The dashas of LL. The 
10th L and the exalted planets are generally favourable for 


110 


Astrology of Professions Profession - Focussed Analysis 


producing good professional results, it is always better to use two 

or more dashas to analyse this issue. Generally Vimshottarl and 

Chara dasha suffice. 

The horoscope that is given below would be examined for 
profession. 


tlustration - | 


DOB: !2-6-1942; TOB: 04:32:00; Long 89:35 E Lat 22:48N 

The first step is to assess the strength of the Lagna and its lord. 
It is this strength that would indicate the level of fructification on of the 
dasha and the yoga indications. In this case Aries has risen in the 


2 
Moon Sat 


Hlustration - 1 
Birth Chart 


12 Jun. 1942 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
02°39” 27°11' 04°53’ 05°30’ 28°45’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
07°15’ 18°13’ 11°19" 14°42’ 14°42" 


“Sun Ven 
Mer 


111 


Profession - Facussed Analysis Astrology of Professions 


Lagna. Aries rises in the Navamsha also, the Lagna is Vargottama. 
Lagna oozes strength. Venus a benefic is in it. The Lagna sign has very 
good strength. The Lagna lord is in a kendra in the 4th house. This is 
quite promising. The Lagna lord is debilitated. The start of life would be 
in lower middle class. The Lagna lords exaltation sign lord (Saturn) is 
in a kendra from Moon and the Lagna lord (Mars) is in a kendra from 
the Lagna hence a Neecha Bhanga (cancellation of debilitation) Raj 
yoga is formed. Life would show graced improvement. 

Now look at the horoscope from the Moon. The Moon is in its 
exaltation sign. The Moon is conjunct Sun; this causes Moon to lose 
strength. In the Navamsha Moon goes to Saturn’s sign in the t1!th 
house and is in mutual aspect relationship with Mars. This brings the 
lagna and the 4th house of Navamsha in reckoning as Mars and Moon 
are their lords. A wavering mind, excellent executive strengths, 
optimistic outlook result. 

We now see the strength of the horoscope especially in the field 
of profession, Saturn and Sun are respectively the 1OL and the 5th 
lords. They form yoga in the 2nd house. Saturn and Sun are bitter 
enemies for this horoscope. Saturn the 10™ lord ensures that the 
education got by the native is not employed by him in his profession. 
It is the LL (Mars) aspecting the 10H and the 6L (Mercury) placed with 
Sun in deep combustion, which decides the profession. Mercury and 
Sun, both are Martian being in Mrigshira Nakshatra. This Martian Sun 
in Rahu/Rahu grants the profession. Please note that Rahu is paced in 
Leo. Its dasha would be influenced by the Sun. 


Navamsha 
Examination of the Navamsha shows. that both Sun and Mercury 


112 


Astrology of Professions Profession - Focussed Analysis 


are placed In the 6th house. Mercury is exalted and Sun is the 5 L. 
Mercury is AK and Sun is AmK. This combination in Navamsha is yoga 
producing. The 1OL (Saturn) Is in the lagna. 10H gets strong, as it is 
aspected by its lord, the 6" has exalted Mercury in it and the lagna is 
Vargottama. The professional field is bright and is full of successes. 
Analyse it as an independent chart for profession. 


Dashamsha 

This is the clearest indicator of profession. LL and 10L are 
together in lagna. The person is a thorough professional. LL and 10L 
are aspected by 5 planets. Jupiter the OL aspects from 5H. Sun the 5L 
aspects from 7th house. Venus the 7th L aspects from his own house, 
Mercury the 6L aspects from 7th house, as does Rahu from 9H. The -4th 
lord Moon is mutually aspecting Jupiter in 5/11 axis fate (OL, Jupiter) 
gets to give happiness (4L, Moon). A profession of flying was given by 
3 planets in Libra an airy sign aspecting 10L and LL in the lagna. The 
Moon, in Aquarius, another airy sign acquesised and mentally attracted 
the native to the thrills of flying. Dashamsha lays down the road map 
of the profession. 

in this Dashamsha, it would be worthwhile to examine two signs 
in depth. These two signs are the ones that are left out when counting 
for Dashamsha in the natal chart. In any chart the Dashamsha covers 10 
signs only. In the charts where Lagnas are odd the Dashamsha finishes 
‘in the 10" house counting from lagna. The 11™ and the 12" houses are 
left out. In the case of even signs, where the commencement of the 
counting for Dashamsha is from the 9" house, the vacant houses/signs 
are the 7” and the 8". Note where these two signs are located in the D- 
10 chart. The lords of these two signs, the house placement of these 
two sign in Dashamsha and the planets there in, hold the Karmic key. 
See it in this case. The lagna is odd. The two vacant sings are the ones 
that are In the 11* and the 12" house. They are Aquarius and Pieces. 
Now move to Dashamsha. These two houses are the 11" and 12° 
houses in D-10 also. Moon is placed in the 11" house and is aspected 
by Jupiter. The lords of these two sings are Saturn and Jupiter. The 
Dashamsha ascendant is Aries and has “Anant” as its codal name. The 
Karmic key to the profession is with Jupiter who as the lord of one 
vacant house aspects the other vacant house (11%). This Jupiter brings 
in wisdom. This results in colleagues seeking guidance from the native. 
The native explains intricate professional points to his compatriots and 
gains recognition. Jupiter/Moon opposition in 5/11 axis guarantees it. 
The 6* and ihe 12 house of the Dashamsha are bereft of any planetary 


113 


Profession - Focussed Analysis Astrology of Professions 


influence. The native’s service would be friction free (6 house) and 
retirement free (12 house). He would be working till the fag end of his 
life. 


Dasha 

We now take a few dasha based probes in this horoscope. The 
career to start should show a link between L, @ H/L and 10H/L, if it is 
to be a service-oriented career. The 10L (Saturn) and the 6L Mercury 
are together in the 2nd house in natal chart. Saturn the 10L aspects 
Mars the LL who is placed in Cancer in 4th house. Moon is the 
significator as well as the lord of 4th house. Mars the LL may give his 
results in the Dasha/AD of the Moon. Mercury the @L is also Martian 
located as it is in Mrigshira, Mars’ constellation. Saturn is in Rohini in 
Moon's constellation and is conjunct with Moon in Moon’s house of 
exaltation. Moon has connected one with the three lords of 1, 6 and10. 
Its dasha, Antar Dasha, could staré the native on the road to a career. 

The period of Rahu commences in the 20th year of the native. It 
is the period of 18 years. It is this, which would decide the profession 
of the native. This Rahu is in Sun’s house and is in the constellation of 
Venus. Sun would decide the native’s exterior and Venus would craft 
his interior. Sun and Venus are both under the influence of Mars. Sun 
by being in Mrigshira and Venus by being placed in Aries. Mars 
aspects 10H, is aspected by 10OL (Saturn) and in Dashamsha is LL 
conjunct with Saturn. Saturn is 10L of Dashamsha and Mars is the LL 
of dashamsha. A career in the uniform is visible. Rahu would give the 
results of a Mars oriented Sun and Venus. [n Rahu/Rahu/Moon, the 
native embarks on the road to a career in the Air Force. In Rahu/ 
jupiter/Moon he is commissioned. Jup is the 9th lord aspecting 9th 
house. jup in Dashamsha aspects both the LL and the 10L of the 
Dashamsha from the 5th house. Note the presence of 5 planets in airy 
tashi in the Dashamsha and the aspects of 3 of them on 10L and LL of 
Dashamsha from Libra and aspect of 10 (Saturn) on Ket in Gemini. 
This is a sufficiently potent “airy” push to project a person in the 
prdfession of a “Fighter Pilot” the exterior is complete. It is devised by 
Rahu in Sun’s house. 

Now lets see the story of Rahu in Poorva Ashadha the Venusian 
constellation. Venus is soft, artistic, dignified, “Venus is musical, Venus 
is dramatic. There is one more side of Venus in this horoscope. In 
Taurus the house of Venus are placed the lords of 3, 5, and 10 houses. 
Venus is thus a patron for authorship/writing of this horoscope. 

Rahu/Mercury/Venus — He learnt classical music. See the two 


414 


Astrology of Professions Profession - Focussed Analysis 


shades; Martian Sun making him an excellent uniformed fighter Pilot 
and Mercury/Venus, making him an excellent instrumental music 
exponent. Rahu/Venus was an outstanding dasha for his promotions in 
service. 

Jupiter dasha sees the native through to 54 years of chronological 
life. This native is now running the period of Saturn. Saturn is the 10th 
lord; Saturn is placed in the Ascendant in the Navamsha and the 
Dashamsha. Saturn is the 10th lord in both these divisional charts. 
Destiny will make him wear the professional boots well into his 
seventies. This soldier would not be facing away; this Saturn is setting 
him up for a biazing second innings. 


115 


Doctors 


Doctors like other technical profession have two phases in their 
evolution. In Phase | the educational promises come to the fore and in 
the second phase the profession as a doctor fructifies. 

The promise in’ a horoscope for the medical education and 
profession as a doctor is discernible from the study of the principles as 
laid down in succeeding paragraphs. 


Houses 

(a) 5" house is education and the 10” house is profession. Since 
medical education is a must for a doctor the 5H/L shows a PAC 
relationship with 10H/L. 

(b) 6" house is the house of diseases and the 12" house denotes 
hospitals, even in the confinement in home, 12 H/L piays a hand. 
12" comes in whenever the movements of a person are 
restricted. 

(c) The closer the PAC link between the 5/10 and the 6/12 axis the 
better are the chances of becoming a doctor. . 

(d) The Ancillary Houses. The inclusion of 2" and or 11" house in 
this scheme adds welcome money for the native, whereas 9% 
house promotes the achievement and fame, may or may not be 
with money. 


Pianets 

Jupiter is a planet that needs careful scrutiny in the horoscope of 
a prospective doctor. It is Jupiter that permits a person to administer 
medicine to another person curing him in a humane manner. Jupiter 


116 


Astrology of Professions ‘ Doctors 


needs to influence the L/5/fO in the natal chart and the divisional 
charts like Navamsha and the Dashamsha. Moon is the other planet, 
which distinguishes a doctor from other profession. A doctor’s Moon is 
“drugged” (this drugged Moon has been included here courtesy Sri 
K.N. Rao). It needs to have malefic influences on it to permit a native 
to deal with poisonous substances, watch people suffer in agony of 
pain and diseases. The Moon generally has malefic influences and has 
PAC link with one or more malefic. Moon may also have a malefic in 
the 8” house from itself. 


First Principle 
PAC link of 5/10 H/L with 6 H/L and 12 H/L. 


Second Principle ; 
Jupiter influences the Lagna, the 5th, 10" houses /Lords and also 
the 10° house from the Moon. The Moon has malefic influences. 


Third Principle 

Sun and Moon the luminaries show a link either with malefic or 
are associated with Trik house and lords. Trik are the 6/8/12 houses in 
horoscope. The third principle is that the luminaries are generally 
afflicted. 


Fourth Principle 
Malefic influence on 4 H/L and 5 H/L provide technical medical 


education. 


Fifth Principle 

In the Navamsha and the Dashamsha, there would be PAC 
connection of GH/L with 10 H/L. This connection may also influence 
the 3/9 axis. 


Sixth Principle 
The MD/AD planets having a PAC connection with 5 H/L at the 
right chronological age (15-20 years) aids medical education. 


Wlustration - | 


DOB: 26-9-1955; TOB: 16:30; Lat 25:38N Long 81:32E 
Mercury is the 5L in 9" house with LL Saturn. This 5" Lord is in 
Chitra the constellation of 10° lord Mars. Fre connection between 5" 


117 


Astrology of Professions 


Hustration -F 
Birth Chart 
26 Sep. 1965 


16:30 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
11°30’ 09°20’ 04°39" 25°53’ 04°02' 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
29°09' 16°06’ 24°50’ 27°42’ 27°42’ 


Ket 


Ven Moon 


118 


Astrelogy of Professions Doctors 


and 10" Lords meet the requirements. of the first principle. Now notice 
5L posited with 12L. 12L Saturn is aspecting the 6H. 

Jupiter aspects the 10" house and Saturn the LL aspects Jupiter. 
The 5* Lord is situated with the LL. A workable influence of Jupiter on 
10, 5 and Lagna exists. 

Moon has Mars in the 8° from itself. Luminaries are in 8° and 12” 
houses. Affliction to luminaries exists. 

AH is in Rahu/Ketu axis and 5L is posited with Saturn the Lagna 
and 12L in the 9" house. Mars the 10° lord posited in 7H and aspects 
the 10", 2% and 11" house. Whereas, Jupiter the 41 lord is exalted 
in the 6” house aspects 10H. 

Malefic influence exists on the 4/5 H/L meeting the requirements 
of principle 4.Thus all the astrological requirements to become a doctor 
is very much present in this horoscope. 

It may also be noted that Mars being the 10* ford and aspecting 
the tO” house from a friendly house has sent ‘the individual to the 
Armed Forces. He is presently serving in Air Force as a senior 
physician. :* 


Navamsha 

Venus the 10® lord and the Lagna and 2™ lord Saturn are conjunct 
in the 5" house. A clear 5/10 relationship has been established. The 5H 
also receives the aspect of 6" lord Mercury and 11 lord Mars from 11% 
house. The 10" lord Venus and 6L Mars are in mutual aspect and Moon 
is aspected by malefic Mars and Moon has Ketu in 8 from it. 
Moreover the other luminary the Sun is in Rahu/Ketu axis. 


Dashamsha 

Lagna lord Venus is in the 6” house conjunct with Moon and 
Ketu. They receive aspect of Mars the 12" lord and Rahu. Moon is in 
Rahu/Ketu axis, whereas, the other luminary the Sun is in his own 
house but receives the aspect of both Rahu and Saturn. Jupiter aspects 
the 10” lord Saturn from 8" house. 


Dasha 

The individual joined| the Medical College at the age of about 18 
years during the dasha period of Mars/Venus/Rahu. In the birth chart, 
Mars. is the 10" Lord aspecting the 10” house. Venus is the 4” and 9” 
lord posited with the 7 lord. Rahu himself is posited in the 10" house, 
which is a clear indication that the individual is going to succeed in the 
competitive examination and go to medical college. In Navamsha, MD 


VIS 


Doctors Astrology of Professions 


tord Mars is in his own house (1 1") aspects the 5" Lord Venus in the 
5 house posited with lagna lord. Rahu is posited with the karaka 
Jupiter and 5" lord from the MD lord Mars. In the Dashamsha Mars and 
Venus are in mutual aspect relation in 6/12 axis. These are the Dasha 
lords. Venus is also the lagna lord in Dashamsha. The dasha is 
providing a predicable launch pad for a prospective doctor. 


illustration - 2 
DOB: 19-05-1956; TOB: 09:42:00; Lat :27:28:00 Long 77:42:00 


Birth Chart 
Lord of the fifth house an exalted: Mars is in the 7“ house and 


Illustration - 2 
Birth Chart 


19 May 1956 
09:42 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
03°36' 04°54’ 29°54! 27°59’ 14°47’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
29°43! 12°56" 06°22’ 14°56’ 14°56' 


Navamsha 
| Lag 
Sat 


120 


Astrology of Professions Doctors 


Saturn is posited in the 5” house in the house of Mars, thus there has 
‘been an exchange of house between Mars and Saturn. Mars is in the 
Nakshatra of Mars itself and is being aspected by both Saturn and 
Jupiter. 5° house is in Rahu/Ketu axis, and is having influence of 
Saturn, Sun, Mercury and an exalted Jupiter from Lagna. 

Mars is the 10° jord and aspects the 10% house. Thus the 5/10 
connection is established. The 5/10 links with the 12H is created by 
Saturn being in the 5° house aspecting both 10L Mars and the 12L 
Mercury. The aspect of Saturn and Mars afflicts moon. And Sun is also 
in the Rahu Ketu axis. Thus both the luminaries get affected very badly. 


Navamsha 

@ 5L Jupiter is in 8H aspected by Mars. Moon is posited in 5H and 
also receives the aspect of Mars. This Mars is the yoga karak 
planet of the Navamsha. This Mars is in the 10° house from 
Moon. Jupiter’s aspect on 10H from Moon promises a ¢loctor. 

@ The 10H is in Rahu/Ketu axis. Mercury is posited in 10H and has 
the aspect of Saturn who is the 6” Lord. Sun is afflicted by 
Saturn’s aspect and Moon by the aspect of Mars 

@ The 12 L Moon is in 5H and both 5L Jupiter and 10% lord Venus 
aspect the 12H. 


Dashamsha 

5H is aspected by the Sun and jupiter while the lagna lord Mars ~ 
is aspected by 10 L Saturn and Jupiter. Mars in turn aspects 10H and 
10L. 

Lagna is aspected by Venus and Jupiter. 

Moon is in the 2" house has Rahu / Ketu axis. The fOL Saturn in 
6" house aspects the 12H which activates the 6/12 axis. The 12t 


121 


Doctors Astrology of Professions 


Jupiter aspects lagna, lagna Jord and the 5H. Thus all the parameters 
are being met. 


Jupiter’s Role 

In the Rashi chart, an exalted Jupiter posited in Lagna aspects the 
5H and also the 5L and 10L Mars. 

In Navamsha, Jupiter is the 5L placed in its own Rashi in the 8H 
and influences the 10H from Moon. In Dashamsha, Jupiter‘ aspects the 
lagna, the 5H and the lagna lord. Thus it may be seen that Jupiter's role 
is clearly established as the maker of a distinguished doctor. 


Dasha 
The individual joined the MBBS course in the MD/AD of Mars/ 
Saturn. Mars is the 5 L as well as the 10 L, while Saturn is posited in 
the 5H and aspects the 5L/10L and MD lord Mars. 
Navamsha. Mars is again a yogakarak and aspects the 5H and 5L, 
while Saturn from lagna aspects the 10H. 
Dashamsha. Mars and Saturn happen to be the lagna ford and JOL 
respectively. Mars aspects the 10L as well as the 10H. 
Notes: Mars and Saturn are also raja yoga causing planets. Mars is yoga 
karaka for Karka lagna while Saturn owns the seventh Kendra. Also Mars and Saturn 
a tnkon and a Kendra lord, involved in mutual exchange. This causes mahayoga. 


illustration - 3 


DOB: 29-11-1929; TOB: 08:40 AM; Lat 31-44 N Long 73:05 E 
Birth Chart 

5L Mars is in his own house Vrischika, posited with the 10 L 
Mercury, 9L Sun. 10% and 5" conjunction is very clear and that too in 
the 12” house, The basic promise for making of a doctor has been 
fulfilled at the very onset. Also the conjunction of 5L/9L and 10L cause 
the necessary Raja Yoga, which is excellent for a doctor. Mars and Sun 
are very close to one another. Sun is at 13 Deg 33 Min and Mars at 
14 Deg 45 Min. Wisdom finds a promoter in lady luck. Both 5L Mars 
and 10° L Mercury are in the Nakshatra of Saturn. Jupiter aspects 5L/ 
10L and the 10H from the 6 H. Moon is afflicted by being in the Rahu/ 
Ketu axis. Sun, the other Juminary is placed in the 12H. 


Navamsha 
5H receives the aspect of 10L Saturn and 5L Sun is posited in the 
8H with Mars the Lagna lord and Mercury the @L. Jupiter is the 121 


422 


Dectors 


Astrology of Professions 
das 
7 
Ven 
Ket 
Moon 
} ilustration - 3 
Birth Chart 
29 Nov. 1929 
08:40 am. 
Lag 
Sat 
Lagna Sun Moon Mar? Mercury 
00°24 13°33! 20°02’ 14°44) 4 4°24 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
19°06’ 26°52’ 07°00' 19°16" 19°16 


Lag 
Moon 


Navamsha 


Dashamsha 


123 


Doctors Astrology of Professions 


and is posited with 10L Saturn. The SL is posited with 6L and the 10L 
is with 12L. and Saturn in turn aspects the 5H. Mars and Sun are in the 
8" house from Moon. 


Dashamshea 

The 5H has the Moon and Ketu aspected by Saturn. 5£ and #2 L 
Mars is in 12" posited with the 10L Mercury. Lagna Lord Jupiter is 
exalted and aspect both the 5L and the 10L. Moon is in Rahu/Ketu 
axis. 


Dasha 

The individual joined the MBBS course in Saturn/Saturn dasha. 
Saturn in Birth chart aspect 10H. In Navamsha it is the 10L himself and 
in Dashamsha it is in its own house aspecting 5H, 5b and 10L. 


Itfustration - 4 


DOB: 24-10-1952; TOB: 05:10; Lat 30:25N Long 76:09E 
Birth Chart 

5L Saturn is in Lagna aspecting 10H. 10L Mercury is placed in the 
2H with 12L Sun. Jupiter aspects both 10L and 5L. Moon is posited 
with Mars and 8" from Moon has Ketu. 


Jup (R} 


IHustration -4 
Birth Chart 
24 Oct. 1952 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 

18°29' 07°18 09°11' 15°17" 25°28' 
Jupiter (R) Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 

24°44" 08°58’ 26°17' 29°16 25°16: 


124 


Astrology of Professions Doctors 


Lag 
Moon 


= Navamsha 
aa 


Mars 
Rah 


Dashamsha 


Jup Lag | 
Sun Ket Ven 
Navamsha 


5H is aspected by Saturn. 10 H is aspected by Mars and 5L 
Venus. Both 10H and 12H are aspected by Jupiter. Saturn aspects 5H, 
12H and Mars associated with Saturn aspects 10H/10L. 

Moon is aspected by Sun and a retrograde Jupiter. 


Dashamsha Chart 
Both SL and 10L Jupiter and Sun are posited in the 2H, aspected 
by the 8 L Mercury. Mercury is the dispositor of the 12L Venus. 
Moon is aspected by Saturn and a retrograde Jupiter. 


Dasha 

The individua} joined MBBS during the Dasha period of Venus/ 
Saturn. Saturn is 5b in the Birth Chart and aspects the 10H. In 
Navamsha Venus is the 5L and aspects the 10H, while Saturn aspects 
the 5H. In Dashamsha both Saturn and Venus aspect 5H. 


125 


Doctors Astrology of Professions 


illustration - 5 


DOB: 19-11-1983; TOB: 20:45; Lot 18:31 N Long 73:53 E 

As we go the press the result of the MBBS examination was 
published and we got this horoscope for our study of the medical 
profession. The student has got selected to undergo MBBS in a 
prestigious institution of India in the dasha period of Moon/Saturn/ 
Jupiter. It won’t be out of place to mention here that his father is also 
a well-known physician. 


Birth Chart 
In 5H there is an exalted Saturn. The 5L Venus is posited in the 


tiiustration -5 
Birth Chart 


19 Nov. 1983 


Sun Mer 


Ket Jup 
Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
14°36’ 03°05’ 22711 07°04’ 14°26" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 


22°44’ TFOT2. 15°55 22°19’ 22°19" 


Astrology of Professions Doctors 


| - = 
Lag 
Ven 


4H aspecting 10H. Mars is posited with Venus in the 4H who is the 
dispositor of Jupiter the 10L. 10H has the aspect of both the 10L 
(Jupiter) and 5L (Venus) 

Venus is also the 12L and aspects the 10H, as does Mars the 6L 
who is in conjunction with Venus in the 4H. Jupiter posited in the 
Rahu/Ketu axis in the 6H also aspects the 10H and 12H. 

Moon is aspected by Saturn and Mars and 8" from Moon has Sun 
and Mercury. Notice the “Shankha” yoga where 5” and 6% lords have 
come together in 4” House and the spectacular success of the boy is 
because 6L Mars aspects MD lord Moon in the 11" house owned by 
. Mars. 


Navamsha 

Saturn the Jagna Jord and 12L aspects the 10H. 10L Mars aspects 
5H from the rashi of Jupiter. 5. Mercury is in the 10H. it receives the 
aspect of Saturn, Jupiter is the dispositor of the 10L Mars and 10H has 
Mercury. Thus a beautiful 5/10/12 connection has been established. 
Moon is aspected by Mars and is thus afflicted. 


Doshamsha 

5H has Jupiter and it is in the Rahu/Ketu axis and aspected by Sun 
the 11L, 5L Saturn is in 6H aspecting the 12H. Saturn has exchanged 
house with Jupiter. Mars the dispositor of Moon and Mercury aspects 
the 5H from 10H. The 12L Mercury is posited with 10 L Moon in the 
2 H. Jupiter aspects Lagna and Lagna lord. 

The 5" and 6" connection leads to brilliant educational success in 
this case. It is repeated in the divisional chart. 


127 


Doctors Astrology of Professions 


Dasha 

The student got selected for MBBS in the Dasha period of Moon/ 
Saturn/Jupiter during May 2002. Moon is the 2b in 11H denotes a 
Dhan Yoga. Moon is aspected by Saturn and Mars the 1iL. Exalted 
Saturn in the 5H. Jupiter the 7L in the 6H has all the potential to 
succeed through competition who aspect the 10H, which denote 
future earning through practice of medicine. 


Illustration - 6 


DOB: 22-11-1961; TOB: 14:20:00; Lat 28:39 N Long 77:13E 
Birth Chart 


iltustration -6 
Birth Chast 


22 Nov, 1961 
14:20 


Lagna sun Moon Mars Mercury 
07°50’ 06°29’ 06°01’ 12°46’ 23°15' 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
09°19’ 20°37° 02°21’ 28°29' 28°29' 


Astrology of Professions Doctors 


Dashamsha 


5H is in Rahu/Ketu axis. 5H is also aspected by Saturn and Jupiter 
the 10° and the 12" lord. SL Moon is in the 3H aspected by both Mars 
and Sun. 10L Jupiter is in the 11H and is posited with Saturn and Ketu. 
It is noteworthy that the 10L and 12L are posited together in the 11H 
and it is the 10L Jupiter who aspects both the 5H and 5L (Moon). Thus 
5/10/12 connection has been established with the benefic aspect of 
Jupiter for the Medical profession. 

Moon is aspected by malefic Sun and Mars. 


Navamsha 

5L Saturn is in the 5H. It receives the aspect of Mars. 12L Sun is 
in the 12H. And Jupiter aspect the Lagna. Moon is in the 6H and is 
aspected by the 12L Sun. 

Mercury is the AK of this horoscope. In the Navamsha it is in 
Aries. Aries becomes the Swansh. From Swansh as Lagna the 10L 
Saturn aspects the 12L Jupiter and Mars the LL. Mars is the dispositor 
of @L Mercury and is aspecting the fOL { Saturn) a 6/10/12 connection 
is seen. 5H has missed out. 

Through the principle that has been explained so far is not clearly 
visible in Navamsha but the strength of the horoscope is clearly visible. 

Saturn and Jupiter in own houses; 

Mars aspect its own house Aries; 

There is exchange of Mars and Venus; 

And Sun is in its own house. 


Dashamsha 

SH has Mercury the OL aspectecd by Mars. 5L Venus is in 4H 
aspecting 10H, which is also its own house. Jupiter is in the 12H aspect 
the SL Veaus thus completes the 5/10/12 connection and its benefic 


129 


Doctors Astrology of Professions 


role to give medical profession to this individual. 

Doctors are called “Bhishak”. They are these to alleviate human 
suffering. It is a humane profession and Jupiter has so much to 
contribute to this noble pr-fession. 


130 


Lawyers 


The principles governing the profession of lawyers are: 


The Houses (2, 6 and 9) 

{a) 6" house is the house of litigation. 9" house is the house of 
judiciary and judgments. 2™ house is the house of speech. These 
three houses highlight the distinguishing features of a lawyer’s 
career. The closer the relation between 2/6/9 houses and their 
lords the greater the chances of the native becoming a lawyer. 
The 3 house would also show up as lawyers also do large 
amount of documentation. 


The Planets 

(b} Interaction between Saturn and Jupiter in a horoscope indicates 
the promise of becoming a lawyer. Jupiter is the 9” lord of the 
Natural Zodiac and its interaction with the Karma lord of Natural 
Zodiac inclines the person to judicial activities. Jupiter is a benefic 
and its natural friends are Mars and Sun — the two malefics. Now 
notice Saturn who is natural malefic with two friends, Mercury 
and Venus both of whom are benefics. This is the astrological 
judicial dispensation. This needs to be reflected upon and 
pondered over. 


The Amk 
(c) The Amatya Karak planet would show an interaction with the 
houses 2,6,9 and their lords. This planet and its constellation lord 


43) 


Lawyers Astrology of Professions 


would be a pointer towards the specialization area of the lawyer. 
Mars, Rahu would indicate criminal cases, Mercury the corporate 
cases. Saturn, Ketu the taxation and other cheating cases. 


The Dasha 
(d) The appropriate dasha at the correct chronological age would 
then promote the lawyer's career. 


tustration - | 


DOB: 25 Nov $969; TOB: 16:53; Delhi 
Balance Mars 5 Yr- 4M- 5 days Venus - AMK Moon AK 

The Lagna has exalted Moon in it. It is aspected by Sun the 4™ 
Lord and Mercury the 5" Lord. Any interaction of a house/planet with 
lords of Kendra and Trikon leads to the production of Raj-Yoga. Lagna 
and 3™ lord Moon stand empowered. Both body and mind gain health 
and vitality. The Lagna lord who is 6L also is in the 6” house with 
Jupiter and is aspected by 10L Saturn, Saturn/Jupiter related profession 
is visible here. Notice Mars placed in Capricorn, Saturn’s house. This 
exchange of 9 and 12 lords links judiciary and jails directly and judiciary 
and law indirectly. Please notice Saturn and Mars are in mutual aspect 
in D-10 aiso. Also note that LL in the natal chart and the Navamsha are 
in the 6" house. In D/10 the 10L is in the 6" house. There is a strong 
promise of law being the career in the horoscope. 


Sat{R) Lag 
Moon 


Illustration -1 
Birth Chart 


25 Nov. 1969 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
02°01' 09°35" 26°29' 21°37' 14°44’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 


02°44’ 29°0S: 09°5é 24°26 24°26' 


132 


Astrology of Professions Lawyers 


Sf 
Dashamsha ~ 


Let us now study the horoscope in the fight of our principles. 

Principle 1 — Inter action of 2,6,9 H/L. 2L is Mercury, 6L is Venus 
and OL is Saturn. 2L Mercury is in the 7® house. Mercury is in 
Anuradha Sat’s constellation. Saturn aspects the 2% house. 6L is 
Venus. Venus is in GH. Venus is in mutual aspect relationship with 9L 
Saturn. A perfect and strong bond of 6 and 9 lords. 

Now notice Jupiter. Jupiter is in the 6" house, with GL (Venus) 
aspected by 9L (Saturn). Saturn is also the 10L. Examine this from 
Karkansh Lagna. Karkansh lagna is Leo. From Leo Saturn is the 6L 
placed in the 9 H aspected by Jupiter who is the SL. 6L Saturn is 
aspecting Venus the 10L and Jupiter the significator of judiciary from 
9H. YL Mars is exalted in 6H and is aspecting his own 9H and the 6L 
Saturn placed there. Exaltation of OL in 6H from Karkansh Lagna veers 
the native towards the bench. A judgeship is on cards. jupiter is also 
a part of this strong 6/9 bond. Its 8" and 11" lordship and its 
signification of “Dhan” and “Judgments” points to a well appointed 


133 


Lawyers Astrology of Professions 


iawyer/judge. 

3 house — The 3” lord Moon is in Lagna. Moon is exalted. A 
3,5,10 connection is the one, which promotes writing. This 3 lord is 
exalted and is aspected by Mercury, the 5“ lord, from 7” house and by 
the 10L Saturn from the 11° house (Saturn is retrograde hence the 
aspect from 11H). The lawyer becomes a judge, writing delectable and 
long judgments. 

In the Navamsha Mercury, is the 6" and 9* lord in mutual aspect 
with the 6" L of ascendant Venus. Venus is in his own house and 
Mercury is Vargottama. Notice the two. Strong 6" lord (Venus) of natal 
chart and a very strong 9" lord (Mercury). The 9” Jord of natal chart is 
in the 6* house in D-9. In the Dashamsha Venus the 6L of the Natal, 
Venus the AMK, Venus the LL of natal is posited in the 6" house. 
Venus is the 10L of D 10 the native will have law as his profession. 5 
Planets influencing the 4/10 axis augur well for the profession. 

Principle 2 — Saturn and Jupiter are in mutual aspect position in 
6/12 axis. Saturn is the 10 L of natal chart aspecting 6H. In Navamsha 
Jupiter from 10° house aspects Saturn in the 6” house. In D 10 Saturn 
is the D-10 lagna lord and Jupiter is in the 10H of D-10. Saturn and 
Jupiter are in mutual kendras. Saturn being in the 10" house from 
Jupiter, a connection confirming elevation to judgeship from a more 
monetarily rewarding lawyers profession. 

Principle 3 — Venus is the AmK planet. It is in the 6™ house 
interacting with Saturn the QL. It interacts with Mercury the 9L in D- 
9 and again gets to 6H in the D-10. This 9" supremacy and link with 
6" gives judgeship. 

The AmK — The AmK planet is in Vishaka the constellation of 
Jupiter. Jupiter is very closely connected with Venus. it is placed in 
Libra, Venus’s Mooltrikone house in the Natal chart. It is Vargottama in 
Libra again in Navamsha and it clinches a judicial job by being in the 
10H of the Dashamsha, which for the third time is Libra. How complete 
is the Jupiterian control over the AMK planet. 

Dasha Scheme — The native was born with balance of dasha of 
Mars of 5 yrs 4 months. Rahu’s dasha of 18 years take hima to 23 years 
of age. The dasha of Jupiter is the one, which fructifies the promises 
seen in the horoscope. Jupiter in the 6” house in natal chart aspecting 
the 9L Saturn. Saturn is also the 10L. Mercury is the 2L. It is in 
Anuradha Saturn the 9 lord’s constellation. Jupiter is with the 6L 
Venus. The strong bond between Venus the 6L and Jupiter connected 
by OL Saturn by being in mutual aspect with both Jupiter and Venus 
‘permits this Dasha to open the doors of law as a profession 


134 


Astralogy of Professions Lawyers 


In Navamsha Jupiter is Vargottama in 10“ aspectir.g 2L Saturn in 
6" house, is promoting the promise of a lawyer. Jupiter clinches it by 
being in 10H with Sun with D-10. Aspect of Mars is the icing on this 
judiciary cake. Jupiter the MD lord giving the dasha from 23 years of 
age to 39 years of age matches the promises with chronological 
growth making this a lucky horoscope of lawyer crowned with 
judgeship. 


IMlustration - 2 


DOB: 26 Dec. 1970; TOB: 14:14:00; Dethi 
Balance of Dasha - Saturn 3yrs-!O0Months 12 days 

The horoscope has the Lagna lord aspecting the lagna. Venus a 
benefic planet is also aspecting the Ascendant. The Lagna is not weak. 
Two Kendra lords the tOL and the 4E are in debilitation. They have 
Neecha Bhanga causing the cancellation of the debilitation. The 
debilitation of 10/4 axis shows birth and commencement of life in very 
ordinary circumstances. 

Navamsha ~ Saturn is exalted and it is yogakarak planet. Moon 
is Vargottama. Jupiter is exalted. Sun is digbali in 10H and is linked to 
two exalted planets Saturn and Jupiter. The person would rise to higher 
levels as his life unfolds. Let us now examine the principles. 

' Houses 2,6,9 — The 6L Mercury is placed in the 9H. The 9L 
Jupiter is aspecting the 2H. In the Navamsha 2L Mars is placed in 6H 


Iustration - 2 
Birth Chart 
26 Dec. 1970 


14:14 
Delhi 


Lagna Moon Mars Mercury 
20°44’ 10°42’ 13°57’ 19°01’ 15°S5: 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
03°02’ 26°56' 22°41' 01°25' 01°25' 


135 


Lawyers Astrology of Professions 


Dashamsha 


aspecting the 9H. The OL is exalted in the 10H aspecting the 2L and 
his own @H. A workable bond is established. 

Planets — In Natal chart Jupiter aspects Pisces. Saturn is 
Retrograde and would receive the aspect of Jupiter in the 12" house. 
The position clarifies in the Navamsha. Saturn an exalted yoga karak 
(lord of 4% and 5” House) planet aspects Jupiter in the 10H. Jupiter is 
not only exalted himself but is also conjunct. Sun the royal 11" lord, 
Sun's interaction with Jupiter and Saturn paves the way of judgeship. 

The AmK — The AmK Saturn is the AmK planet. From his position 
in Pisces Saturn aspects the 2", 6” and 9" houses. GL Mercury being 
in the 9" house also receives this aspect. 

The Dashas — The native educated himself in Mercury dasha. 
Mercury the OL is with 5L in 9H and LL strong in a Kendra. “Shankha” 
yoga provided good education. 

Ketu in 5/1t axis in the Nat& chart, 1/7 axis aspected by exalted 
Saturn in Navamsha and in 5/11 axis in the Dashamsha with Jupiter in 


136 


Astrology of Professions Lawyers 


11H started the career. From 1998 Venus for 20 years would push the 
career. Venus is in own sign in Natal chart and is thus strong. Its 
Location in 9H in two divisional charts augurs well for the 
advancemént of the native in this period. 


{ilustration - 3 


DOB: 24-11-1955; TOB: 09:56:00; Defhi 
Balance of Dasha - Jupiter 10 Yrs and 12 Days 

Lagna lord’s presence in the 9H and its aspect on the lagna 
makes the Ascendant strong. The presence of 5 planets in the 12” 
house needs to be synthesized with the examination from the Moon 
and their placement in the divisional charts. There is unusual strength 
in the 10H from Moon. 

Houses 2,6,9 -— The three lords Saturn, Venus and the Sun are 
conjunct in Scorpio the 12H from the Natal ascendant. Interestingly 
from Moon, Jupiter is the ZL and Moon himself is the 6L. These two 
mutually aspect each other. The 9L Venus goes to the 10” house. This 
OL is in mutual kendras with both Moon and Jupiter. 

Planets — Saturn aspects Jupiter in the 9H from lagna and the 6H 
from Moon. A lawyer is born. 

AmK Planet — Moon is the AmK planet. It is the 6L from himself 
and aspects the 2L Jupiter. The AmkK is also in Jupiter’s Nakshatra. The 
AmK is thus judicial. In Navamsha it is exalted with 10H. In the 


Sat Mer Sun 
Rah Ven 
8 


Ilustration -3 
Birth Chart. 
24 Nov. 1955 


09:56 


Sat Mer 
Rah Ven 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
18°26' 07°52' 24°48’ G3°35' 04°59 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
07°20 29°19' 01°25: 24°12 2Att? 


137 


Astrology of Profassions 


Mer 
Sat 
Navamsha 


Bashamsha 


Moon 
dup 


Dashamsha Moon is in the 6H with Jupiter and is Saturn’s dispositor. 
A lawyer is on cards. 
The Dashas — Saturn and Mercury both are appropriate dashas for 


progressing in this career. 


{Nustration - 4 


DOB: 26 Jan 1952; TOB: 22:25:00; Patna 
Dasha at birth - Sun/Venus/Soturn 

lg, this horoscope It is very important to note about the PAC 
connection between 9" Lord Venus and Lagna 10" lord Mercury is 
posted in the 4"house causing Raj-Yoga. 5" and 6" lord Saturn is in 
lagna aspecting the 10 house. Jupiter is in its own house in Sagittarius 
in the 7" house. This gives the horoscope tremendous strength. Now 
let us apply the principles. The individual is a MSc. in chemistry from 
the Delhi University. His ectucational career had been excellent. He 
joined a bank officer in one of the international banking organization 


138 


Astrology of Professions 


tNustration -4 


Birth Chart 
26 Jan. 1952 
22:65 
Patna 
| ae 
Sat (R) 
Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
14°19" 42°30 09°13' 09°48’ 25°31" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
16°16" 05°38’ 21°47' 07°29' 07°29' 


8 
Mer 
Jup 


Jup 


Jup 
Rah 


139 


Lawyers Astrology of Professions 


rose upto a very high level and then left the job to begin independent 
legal profession. 

Principle 1 — 5% and 6” Lord Saturn aspects the 10H. Also the 
10* lord Mercury aspects the 10H. In addition, Saturn is the dispositor 
of Sun the 12®* lord posited in 5” house. 

Houses 2,6,9 — Ven is the 2nd and the 9th Lord. Sat is the 6L. 
Retrograde Sat the 6L, aspects both the 2nd as well as the 9th it. 

Planets — Jup and Sat are in mutual aspect. Mer, the LL and the 
10th is conjunct Ven the 2nd and 9thL. 

AmK — Sat is the AmK planet. It is in Mercury’s house aspected 
by Jup. Sat is the 10L of Navamsh and aspects 10H'of D-10. In the D- 
10 Sat is the GL. 

Dasha — Rahu dasha commences in the 18th year. Rahu in the 
Natal chart is in 6th house. It is aspected by 6L Sat. In D-40 Rahu is 
with Jup. Rahu has thus imbibed the influence of Sat and Jup. The 
individual could enter the legal profession only where Jup dasha 
commenced and Sat’s AD started. 


IWtustration ~ 5 

Let us take up the cases of two very eminent persons who 
qualified the law examinations and were called to the bar. Both these 
persons gained fame as political leaders, and rose to be the Prime 
Minister of their countries. 

This is fascinating study of the makings of a lawyer. The principles 
are applied to two persons who qualified their law examination at the 
Inner Temple (UK) and were called to the bar with over 60 years, six 
long decades separating them. Both were from vastly different 
countries. One was from India and the other was from the UK. They 
belonged to different eras, yet the planets in their horoscope foisted 
law on them and it was also ensured that despite being lawyers both 
would take steps to be the political giants leading their respective 
nations as Prime Ministers. 

Let us do a concurrent study of these two horoscopes. 


Houses 2/6/9 


Notal Chart 

Nehru — Jupiter is the 9* Lord and is posited in 6° house from 
where jt aspects 2™ house. Jupiter has linked the houses 2, 6, 9. The 
ZL (Sun) has been missed. 

Blair — Saturn the 9L is positioned in the 5H. Saturn is Retrograde 


140 


Astrology of Professions 


Birth Chart 
14 Nov. 1889 


and mutually aspects Venus the 6L. Saturn aspects 2H. Mercury the 2° 
lord is missed out. 

In both cases OL has linked the houses. In both cases 2L misses 
out. As application is limited to 2 Houses, 1/3 of the lawyer is 
missing. 


The Planets jupiter and Saturn 

Nehru — Jupiter the 9" Lord Is in 6H aspecting Saturn in 2H 
Saturn misses to make contact with Jupiter or even the 6" and 9 
houses. Weak contact. 

Blair — Saturn is the OL, this OL is in 5H aspected by Jupiter from 
Ascendant. Saturn from his retrograde placement in Leo (4H) return: 
the compliment to Jupiter. 

Nehru never practiced law. Blair did practice law for a short period 
before plunging full time in politics in 1975. Blair’s Jupiter and Saturn 
have a demonstrably stronger union than Nehru. 


141 


Astrology of Professions 


iltustration - 5 
Tony Slair 
Birth Chart 

6 May. 1953 


The Am Pianet 

Nehru — Mercury is the AmK planet. At 17 Deg O8Min It has the 
2™ highest longitude amongst all planets. Moon at 17 Deg 52 Min is 
the AK. Mercury the 12L is placed In the 4H. Meraury is in debilitation 
In D-9. 

Blair - Sun is the AmK planet. It Is the 4" Lord placed In 12H. Sun 
Is debilitated in D-9. 

See the uncanny repetitions - a connection between 4/12 with the 
AmK planet Is proclaiming non_ utilization of education for the 
profession. Both Nehru and Blair are the sons of practicing lawyers. 
Notice the Influence of 9L on 6H in both the cases. Both have AmKs 
that are debilitated in the Navamsha. 

In both cases AmK are the 6" L of the Navamsha. In both cases 

.the AmK in Navamsha are influenced by Mass. Nehru’s AmK Mercury 
is conjunct Mars in 3° house of Navamsha. Blairs’s AmK Sun Is 
aspected by Mars from 2™ house. Now the final straw — the AmKs are 


4493 


Astrology of Professions Lawyers 


placed in houses where debilitated planets give good results. Nehru’s 
AmK Is in 3 house in Navamsha and Blair’s AmK is in 8" house in the 
Navamsha. The good resutts are further beested as both AmKs are 6” 
lords of their respective Navamsha. 

In both cases lagnas are strong. Nehru’s has Lagna Lord placed in 
it and Blalr has the Lagna Lord exchanging house with Jupiter the 11° 
lord. The Sun in both horoscopes are In an extraordinary planetary 
symmetry. In both cases Sun has Venus behind it and Jupiter, Mars/Ket 
ahead of it. The strength of the Lagna and of the Sun makes them the 
democratic kings. Note the conjunction of Mars and Mercury In both 
horoscopes in thelr Navamsha. ; 

Both are good with spoken and written word. There are a host of 
similarities. What was needed to be brought out here was the 
applicability of the prindples and their not practicing despite being 
lawyers. 

In this brief look we have seen that unless there ls good meshing . 
of the principles the fructification level varies. The principles have stood 
the test of time. 


143 


The Engineers 


It may be pointed out at the very onset that like doctors the 
career of engineers is also highly technical and their education has to 
have a link of 5H with 10H. But Engineers may not have predominant 
Jupiterian influence on the lagna, the “10H or the Moon in the rashi 
chart as well as Varga charts. Therefore the principles that govern the 
education and profession of engineers are laid out in the succeeding 
paragraphs: 

(a) The malefics Sun, Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu need to have a PAC 

relationship with 4 H/L and for 5 H/L. 

(b) ‘Any relationship between Saturn and Ketu is a pointer towards 
engineering profession. 

(c) 5H/L needs to have a connection with 10 H/L 

(d) The dasha at the commencement of the job/service is generally 
related to the fOH/L or the constellation lord of the 10L. 


[llustration - | 


DOB: 27-4-1977; TOB: 19:15:00; Lot 18:31N Long 73:53:00 
Birth Chart 

Lagna is Libra and the lord Venus is exalted in the 6" house and 
is posited with Mars. Saturn the Yoga karak of this horoscope is the 
4” and 5®* lord conjunct with the 10" lord Moon in the 10” house 
establishing the most vital linkage of 5H with 10H. A vital importance 
which should not be overlooked that in the horoscopes of doctors and 
engineers there should, necessarily be, certain raja yogas, because it is 
assumed they will be definitely earning money more than the average 


144 


Astrofagy of Professions 


Lagna 

19°05' 

Jupiter 
11°27’ 


Sun 
13°36 
Venus 
14°42’ 


Moon 
24°56) 
Saturn 


"46°39! 


The Engineers 


[Hustration -1 
Birth Chart 
27 Apr. 1977 


19:45 


Mercury 


Mars 

06°23' 78°35 
Rahu Ketu 
00°42' 00°42’ 


The Engineers Astrology of Professions 


population unless proved otherwise. In this horoscope therefore, 10L 
and 5” lord’s conjunction creates a good raja yoga. An exalted Venus 
‘in the 6” house, Mercury in the 7“ house and Jupiter in the 8" house 
creates Lagnadhi yoga. Dasha of any of these planets will be very 
fruitful for this individual in his life. It is in the 7” house where we find 
Ketu. Moreover Jupiter the “dhan karak” is in the 8” house aspecting 
the 2H, the house which has been attributed with income from own 
efforts. 11% lord Sun is exalted in the 7™ house. This should bring 
nonour. Therefore indications are very favourable from all angles. 

The first principle of 4H and 5H having malefic aspect is clearly 
visible, Saturn aspecting its own house from 10H. Saturn also aspects 
Ketu in the 7H which satisfies our second principle that an interaction 
between Saturn and Ketu is a pointer to engineering profession. 5L 
Saturn being conjunct with 10L Moon in the 10H establishes much 
needed 5/10 connection. 

jJupiterian influence is on the 2 house and the 4" house which is 
quite contrary to the doctors’ horoscopes. But it ensures affluence 
through professional excellence. 

Mercury is the AmK planet. It is with exalted Sun in the Natal 
chart. It is exalted in the Navamsha and is in the 7” house and is in the 
7" house in the Dashamsha. Its continued placement in the 7™ house 
in these three charts added to the profession improvement portfolio of 
this planet it is the AmK imply that the profession will progress 
smoothly. Remembering that 7” house is the house of “Pada Prapti” 
and “karma khestra” of the 10” house. 


Navamsha 

D/9 Lagna lord Jupiter is in the 2"* house. And by being in the 2H 
it aspects 6" and 10" house thus completing the tink of Dhan karak 
with the “Artha Trikon”, enhancing the propensity to earn money 
through own effort. Please note that Jupiter is the 10% lord as well as 
the Lagna lord. The 4™ house is aspected by Rahu a first class malefic. 
Whereas the 5L Moon is in the 12H aspected by both Sun and Mars 
from the 6H. 


Dashamsha 

It is in the D10 we find the clear establishment of the principles. 
5" lord Sun and 10% Lord Saturn are in conjunction in the 5” house, 
aspected by exalted Mars from the 10” house. Thus the 4H, SH and 
the fifth lord are in malefic aspects. 5L/10L conjunction in 5H denotes 
a Raja Yoga. 


146 


Astrology of Professions The Engineers 


Mars, the lagna lord and the 8” lord is exalted in the tO” house 
in Capricorn. From here it aspects the 4" house and the 5” house, 
whereas Jupiter placed in Lagna gives its blessings for the native. 


Dasha 
The individual joined {IT Delhi during the dasha period of Venus/ 


Moon/Rahu. MD lord Venus is the Lagna lord exalted in the 6” house 
- the house of competition. AD lord Moon is. the 10" Lord is in the 10% 
house along with the yogakarak Saturn the 4" and 5" lord. Thus the 
combinations are ideal for him to get into this prestigious institution. 
PD lord Rahu in lagna is a reflector of Venus aid himself aspects the 5" 
and the 7 house. 


lilustration - 2 


DOB: 23-{-1977; TOB: 16:28:00; Allahabad 
Birth Chart 

The Lagna is Gemini and the Lagna Lord and the 4” Lord Mercury 
is posited with Mars a first class malefic in the 7” house. Therefore the 
initial condition of establishing the fact or a finger pointing towards 
technical education is established. This is further supported by the 
presence of Rahu/Ketu in the 5/11 axis. And Jupiter the 10" Lord is in 
11” house in the Rahu/Ketu axis and is aspecting both the 5° House 
and the 4" Lord Mercury. 


iWustration -2 
Birth Chart 
23 Jan. 1977 


46:28 
Allahabad 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
25°07’ 09°47’ 27°53’ 23°23' 15°47’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
27°44’ 26°48’ 20°42’ 04°39 04°39" 


147 


The Engineers Astralogy of Professions ° 


Lag 
Ket 


Navamsha 


Dashamsha 


Therefore the conditions for Engineering education are being met 
i.e. 4" Lord is in malefic conjunction. 5" house has both malefic and 
benefic influence. Jupiter completes the 5”, 10 connection. 4" house 
has malefic influence of Saturn. And Saturn aspects Ketu with its {0™ 
aspect. 


Navamsha 

4" Lord Sun in the 11“ house aspects the 5H and receives the 
aspect of a benefic Saturn. And the 5L Mercury is in 4" house aspects 
the 10H. The first conditions of 4H/4L under malefic influence and 5” 
710" PAC connection are being met. : 


Dashamsha 

5L Mercury is in the 4H in the Rahu /Ketu axis. Mercury also - 
receives the aspect of a debilitated Moon from 10H. Both Sun and 
Saturn aspect the SH. 5/10 PAC connection is carried out by the 
Mercury. 4H/ 5H are under malefic influence. 


148 


Astrology of Professions The Engineers 


Dasha 
The individual initially successfully, competed to get admission 


into Delhi Engineering College (DCE) in May 1994 in the period of 
Saturn/Sun/Venus. The role of Saturn to be adjudged carefully. Though 
the Saturn is the 8 and 9” Lord posited in the 2 house, but it is the 
9* and 10° lord of the Navamsha and the Lagna Lord of the 
Dashamsha. Therefore it will have a very important role to play to 
decide profession. Saturn retrograde in the birth chart from the 2H 
aspects the 10H, 10L Jupiter, 4H and 4L Mercury. Sun the 3° Lord 
having mutual aspect with Saturn the 9L brings efforts and luck 
together. Sun is also the 4L of Navamsha posited in the 11H aspecting 
the 5H. Venus (SL) is the PD Lord. Therefore at the time of joining the 
college 5/10 H/L activities are clearly discernible. 

The individual not satisfied with his education with the DCE 
appeared for the IIT entrance test and got selected in the Chemical 
Engineering faculty in the following year during the Dasha period of 
Saturn/Moon/Saturn. Saturn's role has been discussed adequately. 
Moon (2L) is also the AD lord and is conjunct with 5L Venus in the 9H. 
It has been noticed in a large number of cases that Saturn/Moon 
combination guides an individual towards Chemical Engineering. In the 
Mlustration | also the individual studied Chemical Engineering where it 
is noticeable that the Yoga Karak Saturn is canjunct with Moon in the 
10H aspecting 4H. 


Ilustration - 3 


DOB: !4-9-1967; TOB: 23:20; Gorakhpur 
Birth Chart 

The individual joined the Naval Engineering College at INS Shivaji 
and has passed out from there as an Electrical Engineer. He is presently 
serving with Indian Navy in the Electrical Engineering branch. In the 4” 
house the 4 L Mercury is exalted but aspected by Saturn from the 10H. 
SH is in Rahu /Ketu axis. Therefore both 4H and 5H receive malefic 
aspect fulfilling our first principle. 5L Venus and the [OL Jupiter are 
cenjunct in the 3H. They are also conjunct with the 3L Sun. This 
confirms~the 5/10 linkage. However Saturn’s aspect or Saturn/Ketu 
linkage is missing in this chart. Jt gets established in the Navamsha. 


Navamsha 
4" and 5" Lord Saturn is conjunct with 11L Sun in the 3" and is 
in mutual aspect relationship with 1OL Moon. 


149 


The Engineers Astrology of Professions 


s ilustration - 3 
Birth Chart 
14 Sep. 1967 


23:20 
Gorakhpur 


Lagna Sun ‘Moon Mars Mercury 
02°02’ 04°27' 09°12’ 07°09 05°14" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu ‘Ketu 
04°00" 04°04' 111 00°05' 00°05’ 


Navamsha 


al 


Dashamsha 


ial al 


150 


Astrology of Professtons The Engineers 


e@ 5H receives the aspect of 5L Saturn. 
@ Saturn being retrograde establishes the link with Ketu. This 
overcomes the weakness noticed in Natal chart. 


Dashamsha 

@ 5L Venus is in 4" house aspecting 10H. 

e Saturn (retrograde) aspects both 5" house and 5L and from 10” 
house aspects the 47H. 

e@ Lagna lord Mercury and 11% lord Mars are conjunct in the 5” 
house receiving aspect of Saturn. 

@ Ketu aspects 10H from GH and Saturn being retrograde influences 
the 10H. Saturn aspects the lagna of D10. 


Dasha 

The individual joined the Naval engineering college during the 
dasha of Rahu/Jupiter/Jupiter which commenced in Aug 1985. Rahu/ 
Ketu are placed along the 5/11 axis and Rahu is posited in Aries the 
house of Mars. Mars is the 6L. The AD lord Jupiter is the 10L posited 
with the 5L Venus in the third house. Therefore his joining an 
Engineering college after a competitive examination is well 
established. The PD lord is again Jupiter, strengthening the chances 
further. 


Iltustration - 4 


DOB: 2-12-1962; TOB: 04:30AM; Dethi 
Birth Chart 

This individual after passing out form IIT as a Metallurgical 
Fngineer changed into computer engineering and is presently Vice 
President of a multinational software firm, drawing a six figure salary. 
The raja yogas and Dhan yogas in this horoscope may be noticed by. 
the reader himself which have not been discussed here. 

In the Birtin chart here we find the Yoga karak Saturn (4L and 5L) 
is posited in the 4H in Rahu/Ketu axis aspecting the 10H. On the othey 
hand the maiefic Mars (debilitated) from 10H aspects both the 4H and 
5H. Functional malefic Jupiter is in the 5H. Thus all our hypotheses are 
being met. i.e. 4H and 5H under malefic influence, 4L and 5L under 
malefic influence and Saturn/Ketu close relationship. 


Navamsha 
Lagna lord Saturn is in the 4H, receiving aspect of digbali Sun 


151 


The Engineers Astrology of Professions 


lilustration +4 - 
Birth Chart 
2 Dec. 1962 
04:30 am. 
Delhi 


Mars Mercury 

28°02’ 19°35’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
11°19! 18°59" 13°42’ 07°26' O° 36: 


Dashamsha 4 


152 


Astrology of Professions The Engineers 


from the 10H. 4L Venus is conjunct with the 10L Mars in the 2H, in 
Rahu/Ketu axis. 5 £ Mercury in 11H aspects its own house Gemini. 5H 
also is being aspected by Mars the 10L. Thus the 5H has the aspect of 
both the 5L and the 10L. 


Dashamsha 

4H is in Rahu /Ketu axis and Jupiter is posited in this axis. Mars 
the 10L and 3L is posited in 11H in conjunction with Moon (6L) and 
Sun (7L). These Royals aspect the 5H. Which completes he cycle of 5/ 
10 connection, the balance of both benefic and malefic influence on 
4H/A4L, 5H/5L are being maintained. 


Dasha 

The individual joined IIT Delhi in the dasha period of Rahu/Jupiter/ 
Mars tn 1982. Mars and Rahu are placed in the 10” house and Jupiter 
is the 6” lord, placed in the 5 house. Notice that Mars is the 10L in 
Navamsha and in the Dashamsha. Jupiter and Rahu, the AD and MD 
lords respectively, aspect the Mars (PD lord) owned 10" house in 
Dashamsha, which results in this vocational surge. 


iNustration - 5 


DOB: 5-9-1958; FOB: 14:23; Lat 34:06 Long 74:48 
Dasha at Birth — Sun/Ket | year 3 months 
Birth Chart 

This individual is a serving senior officer in the Engineering branch 
of the Indian Air Force. He joined in the Engineering branch of the IAF 
in Feb 1982. In this horoscope the AH is in Rahu/Ketu axis and the 4L 
Jupiter is in the 11H aspecting 5H. Whereas the 5L Mars is posited in 
the 6H conjunct with Moon the 8L and receiving the aspect of Saturn 
from the 12H. There is conjunction of 9L,.10L and 11L in the 9H, 
causing Raja yogas. 


Novamsha 

5L Mars of the birth chart is exalted aspecting the 4H and 5 H of 
Navamsha. 5L Sun is posited in the 6H in Rahu/Ketu axis. And the 5H 
is also aspected by Saturn from 11H. Jupiter aspects the 4L and the 4H. 


Doshamsha 
4H nas Malefic Saturn and 8L Moon. 4L Jupiter is in Lagna in own - 
house Dhanu. Jupiter receives the aspect of Saturn. 5L Mars is exalted 


153 


The Engineers 


Lagna 
02°06' 
Jupiter 
06°21' 


Sun 
49°00’ 
Venus 
O71°35" 


Moon 

07°06’ 
Saturn 
25°56' 


Astrology of Professions 


liiustration - 5 
Birth Chart 
§ Sep. 1958 


14:23 


Mars Mercury 
01°27' Q2°03: 
Rahu Ketu 
29°42 29°42' 


Lag 
Ven 
Mer 


Navamsha 


Astrology of Frofessians The Engineers 


in the 2H. Therefore, the hypothesis created at the very beginning of 
this chapter for engineering education are correct. 


Conclusion 

The above illustration proves the fact that one of the most 
respected profession can be predicted astrologically and a_ prior 
intimation can be given to the aspirant at a very early stage of life. But 
before doing so astrological acumen should be developed to be more 
definitive in the predictions. 


156. 


The Steel Frame 
(Bureaucrats) 


A miniscule number of the English could administer the vast and 
varied country like India because of the “Steel Frame” of the 
administrators created by them. ICS was the shiniest part of the Steel 
frame. ICS, in its post independence avtaar, is the JAS. Despite the 
severe illnesses like corruption, hankering for and getting political 
patronage, and an abysmal moral degradation of the service, it remains 
the premier goal for educated, middle and lower middle class Indians. 
It is the service that one can, very proudly belong to. 

Let us analyze a few horoscopes of these “tall” persons. The 
principles could be:- 

(a) The Houses — Lagna, 6th house, and the 10th house are the ones 
that come into reckoning. It is their strength and the PAC 
interaction, which decides the “Babu.” The better and closer the 
interaction the higher is the Babu. In houses the role of 3rd house 
is also very significant; for easy understanding it injects dedication 

and sustained hard work to lead our Administrator. to a 
distinguished career. 3 house is the 6" from Karma-Sthan and 
the 10th from the “ari-bnhava”. In this position the efforts’ the 

Parakram, the Vikram, energise this house and empower it to 

produce results that are miraculous. 

(b) The Planets — Sun is the king and Jupiter is his aclvisor. These two 
are the primary controllers of the high placed executive 
administrators. Saturn's ingress and its influence take one to 
masses and also dealings with the general public. The bureaucrats 


156 


Astrology of Professions The Steel Frame (Bureaucrats) 


who love their own writing and branch off as authors while in 
service are obviously the current favourites of “Mars- Mercury 
duet”. 

(c) The AmK Planet ~ For the bureaucrats the AmK Planet’s strength 
and placement showcases their work profile. A strong (Exalted, 
own house, Vargottama are a few obvious sources of strength), 
planet becoming the AmK and then being placed in kendras, of 
even 3rd or 11th house from the Lagna takes the person to high 
profile, rewarding jobs. The planets influencing the AmK planet 
indicate the inclinations that would emerge as prompted by the 
Dashas and delivered by the transit. AmK placement in Kendra or 
3/11 from the AK in the Navamsha augurs well for a smooth and 
rewarding career. 

(d) The dasha — Dasha at the time of career making needs to be of 
planets that control the houses for their profession. 


Illustration - | 


DOB: 22-6-1944; TOB: 17:43:00; Gurgaon 

This horoscope forces one to look at the 8th house. That’s where 
all the action is. 10th L Sun and 9th L Moon conjunct themselves in 
Gemini producing a powerful yoga in a ‘Trik’ house. The Lagna lord 
needs to be strong to control the results of powerful yogas that are 
formed in these “Trik” or “Trishadhya” houses. In this case the LL is 


Illustration -1 
Birth Chart 
22 Jun. 1944 


17:43 
Gurgaon 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
-03°54' 07°48' 28°32’ 25°02’ 27°01’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
00°36’ 06°30’ ~= = 38 07°12’ 04°41’ 04°41’ 


157 


The Steel Frame (Bureaucrats) Astrology of Professions 


Navamsha 


Mars. Mars is in the 9H- that is good. It is in debilitation that is a 
source of weakness. Now note the longitude. Mars at 25 02’ in Cancer 
is in Ashlesha-Mercury’s constellation, and Mercury at 27 01° in Taurus 
is in Mrigshira, the constellation of Mars. This exchange brings the 
Lagna Lord in a strong bond with the 8th L Mercury. 8th house 
assumes further importance. 

Two other issues need to be noted. First note Sun’s total control 
over Saturn and Venus. Their combustion is deep. In this combustion 
do not miss the planetary war being waged between Venus and 
Saturn. 

Since Sun the 10th L is in control of the other two kendras that 
is the 4th and the 7th houses owned by Saturn and Venus respectively, 
a workaholic person whose only happiness is job emerges. Since it is 
in the 8th house there are bound to be severe, sudden jolts to 
complement pleasure-giving, eyebrow raising shifts and promotions. 
The second point to be noted is that LL and GL is Mars. It has no 
relation with the JOL Sun. Now a planet as powerful and profession 


158 


Astrology of Professions The Steel Frame (Bureaucrats) 


controller as the 10L is called the AmK. In this horoscope Mercury with 
27°01’ has the 2nd highest longitude (bereft of signs) making it the 
Amk. It has exchanged Nakshatra with the L and 6th Lord Mars. The 
AmkK planet in the Navamsha is exalted. It is aspected by the Sun and 
the Moon, (Jaimini aspects) the AK and the PK. A resounding, ear- 
splitting Raj-yoga comes screaming. Horoscope must be tallied in the 
Navamsha. 

Now see the unfolding dashas as he was born in 1944 with Syrs 
plus of Jupiter dasha, he educated himself in Saturn’s dasha. Combust 
Ath L in 8th education is nothing to write home about. At 24 years of 
age around 68- 69 he gets Mercury to guide his destiny for the next 
17 eventful years. Mercury was so much influenced by Mars-remember 
Mercury is the 8L of this Scorpio Lagna. The Lagna lord had to be 
heard. The native finds himself in a short service commission in a 
remote area, now in news due to the terrorist activities. Five years later 
in Mercury/Venus and Mercury/Sun he lands a job in the LAS. Mercury 
exalted in the Navamsha; in the “miraculous” 3rd house in Dashamsha. 
Venus the 10L of Navamsha and Dashamsha, and the Sun the 10L of 
the natal chart and the LL of the Navamsha and the Dashamsha were 
carrying out their allotted task. 

The AmK planet is a sound indicator of profession and 
professional profile. One must also see the Navamsha and Dashamsha 
to assess the fructification level of rather confusing and weak signals in 
the natal chart. 


illustration - 2 


DOB: !2-2-1930; TOB: 04:00:47; Delhi 

Let us look at this horoscope. The LL is in the 6th house. It 
aspects the 1OL (Mercury) in the second house. The OL is in the 3rd H 
with the 3rd Lord (Saturn) aspecting the 6L Venus. This gives a strong 
bond between LL and 10L and a weak bond between 6L and 10L. The 
bond of 1,6,10 is stronger from the Moon. The LL is Moon, the 6L is 
Jupiter and 10L is Mars. LL is in Lagna aspecting the 10L Mars. Mars 
the 1OL aspects the 10H as well as the Lagna and the LL. The 6th Lord 
Jupiter aspects Mars the 10L. LL posited in 6H aspecting 10H and 10L 
almost guarantees service. 

Sun and Mars influence the tOL Mercury in Natal. Mars is exalted. 
Jupiter aspects, and this Jupiter is the LL. In Navamsha the 10L is 
Jupiter. It is Vargottama. It is aspected by Saturn the 9L from the 3rd 
house. Sun and Moon the two royal planets aspect 10th, and 1!0OL 


{59 


The Steel Frame (Bureaucrats) 


09°16 29°36 
Jupiter Venus 
13°41’ 00°52 


Moon 

09°20’ 
Saturn 
15°25: 


Astralogy of Professions 


\lustration -2 
Birth Chart 
12 Feb. 1930 


04:00:47 arn. 


Mars Mercury 
Fi ht 1 03°41’ 
Rahu Ketu 


13°00' 13°00’ 


160 


Dashamsha 


Astrology of Professions The Stee! Frame (Bureaucrats) 


jupiter aspects them. Jupiter/Sun duet is IAS. See the influence of 12H/ 
L on the 10L. In natal chart Mars the 12L in conjunct with Mercury the 
10L. In D-9 Jupiter the 10L placed in 12H. In Dashamsha the 12L is also 
the 11°L and Is conjunct with 10L. The native served in Assam. 

The AmK planet is Saturn. It is in Poorva Ashadha-a constellation 
of Venus. Venus is in Saturn’s sign in 3rd house and is aspected by 
Saturn. Saturn also aspects the 10H. This AmK planet is seen in the 3” 
house in the Navamsha aspecting 10L and Vargottama Jupiter in 12" H. 
Saturn continues to aspect Venus now the 5L in 5H. The AmK planet 
oozes IAS in the Dashamsha. The AmK (Sat) is in 3% H with 10L (Jup). 
The 6L (Sun) aspects the 10H. Jup is also the LL. The 1,6,10 link is 
visible. Sat, the AmK has also exchanged houses with Venus. The 
dashas were helpful. 


[tlustration - 3 


DOB: 9 Nov. 1968; TOB: 12:43; Delhi 

We now take the case of an IIT Engineer taking the Civil Service 
examination and becoming a bureaucrat. This assumes interest as there | 
are undercurrents seeking a ban on the engineers and Doctors from 
taking the civil service examination. The thought !s that the Government 
spends 6-8 lakhs rupees on the education that is availed of by an 
engineer or a Doctor. Thus these persons going to the civil service cause 
a loss to the nation. Be that as it may let us examine this horoscope 


Birth Chart 
9 Nov. 1968 


12:43 
Delhi 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
18°19’ 23°32” 08°26’ 06°36’ 07°50’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 


05°26’ 29°47' 26°47’ 15°30" 15°30' 


161 


The Steel Frame (Bureaucrats) Astralogy of Professions 


Dashamsha om 


Firstly see the education houses. These are 2,4 and 5. 2™ lord 
Saturn influences 2H as it is retrograding in 3H. The 4" lord Mars is in 
9H. A yoga producing placement. From 9H and in almost degree 
conjunction with Jupiter — the significator of education, the 4L (Mars) 
aspects the 4H. 5™ lord Venus and 2L Saturn both aspect the 5H. 
Education comes under the spell of good stars. The boy got Jupiter 
Dasha from his 16" year. jupiter in 9H with 4L and aspected by 2L 
Promoted education and deposited him in IIT. 

Let us look at the horoscope from the JAS point of view. 

The houses that we are examining are the Lagna, the 6" and the 
10" house. The Lagna has risen at 18 Deg 19 Min. This is the 6" 
Navamsha. 6" is the house of service. LL is Saturn. Saturn is Vargottama. 
Saturn has the aspect of Jupiter and Mars from the 9* house. It is in 
Rahu/Ketu axis. The LL gets additional strength as its dispositor Jupiter 
aspects it. Multiple planetary influences on the LL induce versatility in 
the individual. Now to the 6" house, the 6L Mercury is in the 10 house. 
Mercury is also the OL. Mercury is conjunct with Sun in [0 House. Sun 


162 


Astrology of Professions The Steei Frame (Bureaucrats) 


has an additional source of strength, that of being Digbali. Sun in 10° 
house shows strong possibilities of Govt. Service. From the Moon, Mars 
is 6L.This 6L Mars is placed in the 4" house from Moon with the 10L 
Jupiter. The 6L and the 10L aspect the 10H. This is a strong bond. Now 
the 10H. 10L Venus is well placed in the 11" house and we should not 
miss the aspect of Retrograde LL (Saturn) on the 10£ from 3H. The IAS 
bond is visible. Now to the planets. Sun and Jupiter need to be’ 
examined. Sun is in the 10H and Jupiter in the 9". The lordship of both 
Sun and Jupiter, 8" and 12", could be better. Here note the most 
interesting facts in this horoscope, the 3” house link. Sun is the 3° lord 
from Moon and Jupiter is the 3% lord from Ascendant; Sun is in the tO® 
house from Ascendant; Jupiter is the 1OL from Moon. Vikram and 
Karmasthan are brought together by Sun and Jupiter. If we examine 
Sun’s constellation it is Vishaka whose lord is Jupiter. Jupiter is in Uttar 
Phalguni whose lord is Sun. The constellational exchange pushes the LT 
Engineer in the IAS. 

In the Navamsha the noteworthy features are the location of 
Saturn in 10H with Vargottama strength. Saturn is conjunct Venus the 
5L of Navamsha and Saturn has exchanged houses with Jupiter. This 
_ exchange of 9" and the 10* houses is excellent Raj-Yoga producer. 
In the Dashamsha we notice that Jupiter is both the LL and the. 
- 10L. Not content with this, Jupiter placed in the 4" H is aspecting AL - 
(Mercury) in the 10H. Notice 4L (Mercury) in the 10” House. 4/10 
exchange is clearly visible. Mercury also lords over the 7” house, the 
house of “Pad Prapti”. 

The Jataka is going to go places in the dasha of Jupiter. He gets 
Jupiter from 16" year to 32” year; this is the measure of luck in a 
horoscope. In Jupiter/Jupiter he joined IT. Jupiter the Karak of 
education in 9" house aspecting 5H. Jupiter is conjunct with Mars the 
AL. Mars also aspects the 4H. The strong 5/4 dispensation was boosted 
by two facts. Jupiter and Mars have Mercury as their sign dispositor 
and Mercury is the 6 Lord of competitions located in the 10° H. So 
the Jataka could score in the tough NT competition. 

The Jataka sat for and made it to the LAS in Apr 91 when he was 
running the dasha of Jupiter/Mercury. In D-10 Mer has given strength - 
to Jupiter by exchange. This Jupiter had to push him up in this dasha. 

Jupiter in April 91 was transiting in Cancer his exaltation sign and 
the Jataka's 7" house, public accolade was destined. 

We have in these cases seen that the houses 1/6/10 and planets 
Sun and Jupiter supported by relevant dashas and transit help us to 
locate the “Steel Frame” the bureaucrats. 


163 


Chartered Accountants 


A much sought after Professional Avenue. Chartered Accountants 
are a respectable watchdog of the business and industry. They audit the 
accounts and thelr reports are trusted. Once in a while greed steps in 
and the trust is misused with disastrous financial results. The sinking of 
Enron is because a trusted firm like Arthur Anderson mishandled their 
accounts. 

Astrologically we would need to see a relationship between the 
2nd house (finance), 6th house (Litigation, Law), 10th house (Karam 
Sthan) and 12th house (Tax, Revenue)/5th house (Advice). 

Mercury and/or Jupiter would be the primary planets as Jupiter 
represents finance and advice and Mercury represents accounts. The 
checking, auditing and advice on how to avoid trouble, calls for the 
“ malefic planets. Mars and Sat step in. Mars would be noticed in PAC 
relation with ZH/L and Saturn in many cases. 

The AmK planet shows a PAC relationship with 2/H/L. Amk planet 
also indicates specialisation of the CA like Audit, Accounts; Mere - Govt 
or multinational auditors; Sun - Legal matters of tax evasion (Sales tax/ 
Income/Corporate Law etc.); Mars, Sat/Jup; Banking, Financing. 


The Principles 
(a) The houses that predominantly influence the CAs are 2, 5 and 10. 
The closer their Interaction the better Is job prospects; 6/12 axis 
also figures prominently in cases of taxation and audit personnel. 
(b) Mercury and Jupiter are the primary planets for this profession. 
Mars and Saturn step in secondarily for those whose advice is on 


164 


Astrology of Professions Char. ‘ed Accountants 


avoiding and minimising revenue/tax. 

(c) The AmK planet does two things. It shows specialisation in a field 
and also the professiona) standing. AmK planets interaction with 
other planets indicates specialisation as discussed above. AmK 
planets interaction with houses 2™,5" and t1* houses shows 
professional standing. 

(d) The dasha at the time of commencement of career shows a 6/10 
connection and a link with the AmK planet. 


IWustration - | 


DOB: 26-12-1964; TOB: 09:30 am.; Dethi 

This chartered accountant has the lagna lord in 2nd house in 
mutual aspect with 11th tord (Mars). 

The S“ Jord (Venus) and 9th lord (Merccury) are in the 11° 
aspected by 11" lord and the 2nd lord. A near complete Dhana yoga 
is the reason why he is a very prosperous Chartered Accountant. This 
2nd lord (Saturn) aspects 6th lord (Mercury). The 10th lord (Venus) is 
also conjunct with 6th lord. Venus is also the 5th lord. Saturn also 
aspects Jupiter hence some law matters also may be dealt with by this 
CA. 

Mars’ aspect on 2nd house/2nd lord is almost a signature of CAs. 
The 2nd lord (Saturn) aspects Venus (5th and 10th lord), This 


Itlustration - 1 
Birth Chart 


26 Dec. 1964 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
15°54’ 11°03" 18°27 28°41" 29°99 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
23°08 Toe 07°24 29°30 29°35 


165 


Chartered Accountants Astrofogy of Professions 


-completes the 2,5, 10 link. 

Mercury is the AmK planet. It has aspect of 2nd lord and it is 
placed in 11th house. Meets the requirements of our principles. 

He qualified in July 1987. The dasha was Rahu/Mercury. Rahu in 
' 5th house Mercury the 6th lord is the AmK planet. 


. INustration: - 2 


DOB: 22-61-1958; TOB: 02:19 am.; Dethi 
Notice the Lagna has Jupiter which is 3/6 lord, a functional malfic, 
‘ with Rabu. The lagna lord is in 4th house- a Kendra location good but 
retrogression of the lagna lord and its very close placement with Sun 
(within 2°) take the lustre off the lagna and lagna lord. The native's 
growth is stunted. 
Mars and Saturn are in a planetary war. The 2nd lord overcomes 
‘the 5th lord. Money scores over wisdom. The advice of this CA suffers. 


166 


Astrology of Professions Crartered Accauntants 


Illustration - 2 
Birth Chart 
22 Jan. 1958 
02:19 


Mars Mercury 
28°53’ 08°03' 00°12" 20°33: 14°50’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
07°26’ 9°12’ 28°24 12°57 12°57 


Dashamsha 


467 


Chartered Accountants Astrology of Professions 


Let us test his horoscope in the light of our parameters. 


Houses (2,5,10) 

Mars is the 2nd lord, Saturn the 5th lord and Moon the 10th Jord. 
Mars and Saturn are placed togather in 2nd house. Moon is placed in 
Aquartous the 5th house. Moon (10th ford) is aspected by Mars (2nd 
lord). The linkeage has strength to produce a CA. Mars and Saturn are 
placed in 10th house from Moon, this adds strength to the 2/5 link 
observed from the lagna. 

The 2,5,10 link in Navamsha indicates yet another facet of this 
CA. Moon is the 2nd lord, Venus the Sth lord and Jupiter the 10th lord. 
Moon is placed in the Sth house, Venus and Jupiter the 5th and 10th 
lords, are mutually aspecting in lagna/7th axis. 

In the Dashamsha again the 2nd lord (Sun) is in 5th house, this 
2nd lord is aspected by 10th lord (Mars) from the 10th house. Mars/ 
Saturn combination is seen is al] the charts. This is not a good 
combination as Mars is the AmK. The CA prospers in this area of Tax, 
advice. Skating on thin ice is Mars pleasure. 

This person qualified for the CA in Jupiter/Mars in mid 82. Jupiter 
is the 6th lord both in natal and in the Dashamsha. Jupiter aspects the 
10th ford both in the natal and in the Dashamsha. Mars is the AmK 
planent. Mars is 2nd lord of natal, aspecting the 10th lord (Moon) and 
in the Dashamsha Mars. is the 10th lord in 10th house aspected by Gth 
lord (Jupiter) who is also the mahadasha lord. 

The CA conforms to the parameters. 


WMustratoin - 3 


DOB: 9-11-1975; TOB: 05:50; Delhi 
This CA has an exchange of lagna lord and 12th Jord. Lagna lord 
(Venus) and the 12th lord (Mercury) are fast friends for this horoscope. 
Lagna lord is in debiliation, lagna lord has the aspect of Saturn, Mars 
(R) and Jupiter(R). This person will not get dasha of Venus (lagna lord) | 
an he is born in Sun’s mahadasha. Ven improves in the Navamsha by 
becoming the Yogakarak lord of 5" and 10” houses. It’s placement in 
2nd house in Navamsha acts as an anti-dote to its exchange with the 
12” lord and placement in th house in natal chart. 
This person is a CA because: 
1. Houses (2,5, 0) — 2nd lord (Mars), 5th lord (Saturn) and 10th lord 
(the Moon); Saturn and the Moon are in an exchange of house . 
Situation excellent for CAs. Mars aspects the 10th lord the Moon 


168 


Chartered Accountants 


a ee tee 


illustration -3 
Birth Chart 
9 Nov, 1975 

05:50 

Delhi 


Astrology of Professions 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
A421 3° 22°27" 02°26' 09°05' 10°42’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
22°53 05°54’ 09°25’ 28°16 28°16' 


Navamsha 


Jup 


169 


Chartered Accountants Astrology of Professions 


and the 2nd house (remember Mars is Retrograde). From the 

Moon; Saturn is 2nd lord and Venus the Sth and 10th lord. Saturn 

aspects Venus. This improving trend of the 2,5,10 interaction 

augurs well for this CA. [n this Navamsha the Sth and 10th lord 

{Venus) is placed in the 2nd house. In the Dashamnsha Saturn and 

Venus are once again the 2,5" and thel0" Lords. They are 

placed together in the 6" house. The linkage of 2,5,10 makes the 

CA possible. 

Jupiter, the Oth lord in 6th house, aspects Saturn in 10th house 
inclining the budding CA towards service. Jupiter from this retrograded 
position in 5th house also influences mercury in the lagna. Completing 
the 2nd parameter. 

Sun is the AmK planet. Jt is 11th lord in lagna and is in exaltation 
in the Navamsha chart making this CA take on the work of Govt and 
MNCs. 

This person completed CA in July 1997 in the dasha of Rahu/ 
Rahu/Mercury. Rahu and Mercury are both placed with AmK the Sun 
in lagna. This is also the 10" house when reckoned from the Moon. In 
the Dashmansha Mercury is in the lagna as the Gth lord aspected by 
Rahu. The service results in this dasha. 

This completes an examination of this profession. 


170 


The Journalists 


The journalists are wordsmiths - they are the jewellers of the 
world of writing. Their way with words and that memorable turn of the - 
phrase are gifts of Mercury. A joumalist prospers to the level that 
Mercury desires. The foul profanity of the journalists and their bizarre 
life styles are also Mercurian - ever changing and _ totally 
impressionable. 

The entry of Jupiter is a steadying influence and the sign of an 
author whose words would be remembered for long. 

The 6th house would figure prominently with all those who work 
for an organised party/group on a salary. Freelancers would go to the 
11H. 


The principles 

(a) Houses — The primary houses are 3, 5, and 10. The 3rd house for 
communication, the 5th house for the expression in lucid and 
reacable manner and 10th is of course of the house of profession. 

{b) The Planets — Mercury is the primary planet. Mercury and Mars 
- paper and ink- produce. a publishable journalist; ingress of Jup 
takes one to authorship and steadiness. 

{c) The AmK Planet — The AmK planet indicates the fields of the 
journalist. Venus combining with Moon makes for a Visual media 
journalist; Rahu, Saturn and Jupiter assist. Saturn and Jupiter are 
the photojournalist’s assets. For the normal print media person 
AmK needs to interact with Mercury, and/or Mars. Moon, Jupiter 
contact is a welcome addition. 

(d) The dasha ~— The clasha connected with the houses and planets 


171 


The Journalists Astrology of Professions 


help commencement of the career at right level and right time. 
Nlustration - | 


DOB: 25 Apr 1948; TOB: 22:00; Long 88:24 Lat 22:32 

Houses — 3H is Aquarius; Saturn is the Lord. 5th house is Aries, 
Mars is the Jord. 10th house is Virgo, Mercury is the Jord. 10L Mercury 
is in the Sth house. It is in close conjunction with OL (Sun). A nine-ten 
conjunction in 5H is Dharmadhip- Karmadhip yoga, luck promotes 
work. Now see the icing on the cake- Jupiter the LL aspects this potent 
combination of 9th and 10th lords. 

The tripod of the horoscope is strong when 1, 5, 9 houses and/ 


Ilustration - 1 
Birth Chart 
25 Apr. 194% 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars -Mercury 
06°04 12°13: 09°04’ 28°93 08°09’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
05°33" 24°29 22°41 20°94" 20°54' 


Navamsha 


Astrology of Professions The Journalists 


or Lords combine. Do not miss the closeness of Jupiter with the Lagna. 
The constellation of Jupiter is Moola ruled by Ketu. Ketu in Libra is in 
Vishakha, a Jupiterian constellation. The whole personality is decisive, 
executive and humane- a Ketu -Jupiter personality. 

The 3rd and the Sth lords are together in 8th house. The 5th lord 
is in debilitation, but with its exaltation lord Sat and aspects the 3rd 
house. The 3rd lord repays the compliment by aspecting the 5th house. 

A very strong 3,5,10 bond surfaces. Mercury is the 1OL and It 
Improves in the Navamsha by being the 5th Lord and by being placed 
in Gemini, its own house. Mars aspects Mercury from 1{th house. 
Mercury-Mars duet writes and gets published. Mercury continues to 
gain strength in the Dashamsha; it is again in the 5th house in Gemini 

_in its own house and is in mutual aspect relation with Mars the 3rd and 
10° L. The. Mars-Mercury placement completes the 3,5,10 bond 
strongly. A journalist is destined. 

The AmK Planet — Venus is the AmK planet. It is in its own 
house. It has the aspect of Moon from Mars’ house. Venus is in 
Mrigshira-a constellation of Mars. Visual media stares at one. The 
Venus, Moon, Mars interaction goes on in the Navamsha in 5/11 axis. 
Venus is in debilitation but is aspected by its exaltation sign lord- 
Jupiter. In the Dashamsha Moon-Venus are together in 9th- the house 
of luck along with Saturn the Dashamsha LL in exaltation and Venus in 
her Moo! Trikon sign Libra. Rahu/Ketu axis adds to the strength. The 
native was born in a non descript backward Eastern U.P. town. For a 
boy of this region to progress in the field of creative writing becoming 
a national icon is the gift of promises fructifying in the Dashas. 

The Dasha - Till 27 years of age the native enjoyed Saturn and 
Mercury. Mercury had to, and did, launch him in journalism. Ketu with 


173 


The Journalists Astrofogy of Professions 


strong Jupiterian influence and the 11th house positioning brought him 
out of obscurity to the national stage. Dasha of Venus started for him 
in the year 1983. Visual media beckoned him and in a few years in 
early nineties he anchored a news programme that gave him exposure 
and has graduated him into a well-known news channel now. 


Mlustration - 2 


DOB: 20-6-1959; TOB: 05:00; Dethi 
Houses — Moon, Mercury and Saturn are respectively the lords of 
3,5 and 10° houses. Saturn the 10 L is in the 8° house. Saturn is 


INlustration - 2 
Birth Chart 


05:00 
- 
1 Moon 
Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
28°08’ 04°37" 22°34’ 18°02’ 22°50" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
00°11’ 19°58 10°55: 16°27" 16°27' 


Navamsha x 
pm] py 


Astrology of Professions The Joumaiists 


Dashamsha 


Lag Mars 
Rah | Ven 


aspecting the 5L (Mercury) in 2H and is also aspecting the 5H. Saturn 
in retrograde motion influences Moon the 3rd L. Mercury aspects 
Saturn, strengthening the 5-10 link. The bond is acceptable- there is 
weakness in the 3rd house linkage with the 5th and 10th house and 
Lords. The career would not have the 3rd house dedication and the 
journalist would be short of perseverance. In the Navamsha the 
situation improves as Mars the 3L aspects the 10H and Saturn the 5L. 
Saturn aspects its own 5th house where Moon Is placed. Moon the 
11th Lord is Saturn’s dispositor, fame of 11th due to imaginative use 
of wisdom- note the exaltation of Jupiter in 11th house. This Is a weak 
connection as 10L Mercury is not directly involved. Now in Dashamsha. 
Jupiter the 3L in 10th in exaltation with 11L Sun aspects 9L Mercury in 
4th house. The 10L Moon is placed in Sth house. The 5L Saturn is in 
Jupiter, the 3rd lords house and is aspected by this 3rd lord. A 
complete bond that should overcome the bonding weaknesses of Natal 
‘chart and the Navamsha Chart. 
: The Planets — Mercury does not get the Martian support. Mercury . 
however is supported by Jupiter and Saturn. Sun’s support to Mercury 
is also notable. She was helped by her father to find her feet in the 
slippery world of journalism. This journalist is the part of a team and 
does not get her own by-line. 

The AmK Planet — Moon is the AmK Planet. It Is with Jupiter the 
8th and 11th lord retrograding in 7th house. The 10L is also In the 8" 
house. Jupiter the SL {fs not only obstructing the AmK it is also 
reducing the potency of writing, the charge of 3rd house, whose lord 
is Moon. Saturn the yogkarak 9th and 10th Lord retrieves the situation 
to an extent. See the Navamsha. AmK (Moon) in 5th house aspected 
by 5L Saturn and an exalted Jupiter. In the Dashamsha the AmK is 
again in the 5th house but has no aspect. Saturn and Jupiter who are 


175 


The Journalists Astrology of Pratessions 


retrograde planets continue to influence from their retrograde 
positions. The writing was logical, flowery and was well appreciated. 
The publication was not upto expectations. The papers were not top- 
class, and some effort was also lacking. 

The dashas were supportive. 


lilustration - 3 


DOB: 10 May 1956; TOB: 07:28; Dethi 

In this horoscope the Ascendant lord Venus has exchanged house 
with the 2™ lord Mercury. Mars and Jupiter are exalted in the 3/9 axis. 
An exalted planet in the 3H tends to diminish the result giving 


{(lustration -3 
Birth Chart 
10 May. 1856 
07:28 
Dethi 


Mars Mercury 

22°29' 14°48’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
29°00' 08°03’ 07°02' 14°55’ 14°55’ 


176 


Astrology of Professicns The Journalists 


Dashamsha 


Ven 


potential of 3H. Here we find that 8L is exalted in 3H. Sudden spurt 
of activity and changes in hobbies are on cards. Mars the exalted 
planet is in debilitation in 12H in Navamsha and its dasha from 25 to 
32 years of age ensures number of foreign trips for the Jataka. 

Two planets Mercury and Ketu are Vargottama. The improvement 
in the Navamsha and Jupiter's placement in his own house are the 
improvements for the horoscope. Mercury and Ketu are at the same 
degree, Mercury 14°48’ and Ketu 14°55" —- this saps the Mercurian 
grace and distinction and infuses the directness and haste of Ketu. Ketu 
is like Mars. Mars ~ Mercury combination permits printing of one’s 
writings. ) 

Let us see why is the lady a journalist? 

Houses — The 3” lord is Moon placed in the #2" house in Bharni 
— the constellation of Venus the LL. The 5" Lord is Mercury placed in 
- the Ascendant in exchange of house with Venus the LL. Mercury is in 
Rohini - the constellation of Moon. Saturn is the 10L is in the 7" house 
in Anuradha its own constellation. 

Now we have to find the 3,5,10 bond. The 3’% Jord Moon is 
aspected by 10L (Saturn) from its retrograde position in 6" house. The 
3 lord is the lord of Rohini the constellation in which Mercury the 5L 
is placed. First leg is promising. 5L Mercury is in mutual aspect with 
10L Saturn. Bond is workable. 

The Planets — Mercury is dominant. It has near Yogakarak 
lordship in Natal Chart. The lord of 2"* and 5" in lagna is an excellent 
placement. In Navamsha it becomes {1° and 2°" house lord and placed 
in the 10” house in Vargottama state. A qualitative improvement. The 
second planet that promotes journalism specially the print media is 
Mars. Mars is exalted in the Natal chart nose-civing to a debilitation 
status in the Navamsha. Ketu, the Mars took alike steps in and 


WE 


The Joumatists Astrology of Professions 


promotes Mercury. The lady becomes a reporter and with Ketu getting 
too close to Mercury, the reporting becomes one of the courts. 

The Dashamsha has Mars the 3™ Lord aspecting 3H, Saturn the SL 
aspecting 3 House and 10” house. Dedication and hard work are 
there. 10L Mercury is hamstrung by Ketu. The work environment is 
good as the 4L Jupiter and Sun aspect the tOH. Sun as 12L in 4” and 
Venus as 9L in 12" house do cause a bit of drain on the luck and 
happiness. 

The AmK Planet — Sun is the Ark pianet. Its location in the 12H 
does not usher in a high profile career. It improves in the divisional 
charts by getting into 4" house in both cases. This provides a happy 
career, a little late in life. 

The Dasha — Born in the dasha of Venus around 10 years balance 
at birth. Moon dasha finished education and gave settlement in life 
from 16 to 26 years. Then came the definitive dasha of Mars till 32-33 
years. Mars in the divisional charts is located in Trik houses — 12" in the 
Navamsha and 8" in Dashamsha ~ this indicates professional struggies. 
Next dasha of Rahu in 7" house with Saturn the 9/10 L augurs well for 
a steady rewarding career. 

The journalists are now fast expanding specially in the visual 
media. The old firm of Mars—Mercury, the “Kagad—Masi” duo is fast 
fading into oblivion. The new breed is Venus — Rahu powered, a small 
look at the future journalist is possible in the chapter of “Television 
Persons”. 


178 


Television Persons 


Television is also a new entrant in the professional arena. 


Television. has thrown open hundreds of jobs for Anchors, Television 
reporters, Visual Media Journalists, Presenters, Talk Show personnel, 
Serial makers, actors and a host of support staff like camera crews etc. 


Astrologically the TV presenters and anchors generally conform to 


the following parameters: - 


(1) 


(2) 
(3) 


Venusian influence on the Lagna and/or Lagna lord of Natal and/ 
or Navamsha chart, 

Afftiction of Venus, Venus is afflicted in most of the cases of TV 
personnel. Venus and Moon generally interact in case of TV 
artists. 

3" house is the primary house for TV personalities. Its link with 2°° 
house makes him appear on screen. 3/5 link makes one a 
reporter. 3/8 link is for investigative journalists, Talk show anchors 
and researchers, 3/11 is for serial makers. 

3,5,10 link is seen in TV reporters and Journalists 

Mercury and/or Moon should influence 10H and/or 2™ house 

A 7® house link with 5° and/or 2% house indicates good public 
image of the TV artist 

The Am planet shows link with Jupiter and/or Mercury mainly 
and Sun/Moon in a few cases 

Therefore the principles will be as under: ~ 

The first principle is that Venus should inffuence Lagna/Navamsha 
lagna 

Venusian affliction is the Second principle 

Interaction of 2°°/3 House/Lords is the third principle 


179 


Television Persons Astrology of Professions 

(4) Mercury and Moon influence 10H/L and/or 2 H/L is the 4* 
principle. 

(5) AmK planet shows link with Jupiter/Mercury mainly is the 5° 
principle. 


Illustration - | 


DOB: 13-10-1974; TOB: 14:25; Dethi 
Birth Chart 
® Application of the principles. In this horoscope of visual media 
journalist the Venusian influence is apparent. 
@® Venus is the LL of the Navamsha. Venus is afflicted as it is 


Iustratoin - 1 
Birth Chart 


13 Oct. 1974 
14:25 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
16°28" 26°08’ 27°12’ 26°30’ 17°06’ 
Jupiter Venus Satum Rahu Ketu 
15°14’ 19°53’ 25°05’ 18°04’ 18°04’ 


a _ ae 
Moon 
Rah 


: 180 


Astrology of Professions Te,avision Persons 


Ket 
Jup 
Dashamsha 
Ven 


combust with Sun and conjunct with Mars. The affliction is 

confirmed as Venus is in the Rahu/Ketu axis in Navamsha. 

@ The 3° Lord, Jupiter has gone to the 2" house in the Natal Chart. 
Jupiter aspects 2" house both in the Navamsha. and Dashamsha. 
The 3" Lords link with 2" house makes her appear on TV. Jupiter 
the 3" Lord aspects 5 and 10” lord Venus from his retrograde 
location in the lagna, thus establishing the 3/5/10 link. 

@ Mercury is in the 10” house and Moon aspects the 2™ house. 
Moon is also the 7“ lord; hence the public image given by the 7* 
is made beneficially acceptable by Jupiter and Moon's mutual 
aspect. 

@ Mars the AMK pianet is in Mercury’s house in Natal Chart and is 
aspected by Jupiter. In Navamsha, Jupiter, and Mars mutually 
aspect one another. The AMK has absorbed influences from 
Mercury and Jupiter- the writer. The principles laid out for TV 
presenter find an application making this young reporter an 
attractive, publicly accepted journalist. 

In this horoscope Dasha of Rahu commenced in Sept. '97 when 
this TV reporter was 23 Yrs. of age. Rahu is in Scorpio with an 
exchange of constellations with Mercury. Mars influencing the MD 
Lord orient the native towards journalistic pursuits. Notice her 
Dashamsha (D-10}. Saturn is in own house, Moon is exalted, Jupiter is 
exalted, Mars is exalted, the exalted Jupiter aspects a debilitated 
Mercury in 2% house, Mercury the 5L gains strength. Exalted Mars 
aspects his own 3” house and exalted Moon aspects Venus in the 10° 
house. The 3,5,10 group gets the support of exalted planets. This 
makes the native shine in the arena of TV journalism. 


181 


Television Persons Astrology of Professions 


tustration - 2 


DOB: 7-9-1969; TOB: 14:50; Dethi 

The LL is in 10 H closely conjunct with 10L. Moon is in own 
house. Sun is in his own the 9" house. Mercury is exalted in the 10° 
house and has the LL for close company. Mars is in his own house. 3 
planets in own houses and one exalted are nicely counter balanced by 
Saturn being debilitated in the 5" house. Does this promise hold out 
in the Navamsha? Navamsha is the operative chart. Notice that Moon 
is Vargottama in his own house. Mercury is in own hcuse. Venus and 
Jupiter have exchanged houses. 4 planets with augmented strength. 
are well placed for providing a push to the life. Sun in debilitation in 


tHustration - 2 
Bixth Chart 
7 Sep. 1969 


14:50 
Delhi 


Moon Mars Mercury 
15°45’ 21°08' 01°28' 28°24' 17°41 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
16°03 17°34 19°15: 27°42’ 27°42’ 


Teievision Persons 


Jup 
Mer 


3 house aspected by Mars the lord of its exaltation sign adds to the 
strength of the Navamsha. 

Let us now examine the principles. Venus has little influence on 
Lagna or LL. Venus is of course in the Rashi with the Moon sign Lord 
Moon. The Venusian affliction is that in Natal chart it is placed in the 
8" house with an inimical 8L and in the Navamsha, Venus goes in the 
R/K axis. Venusian affliction is needed for presentation of art to titillate 
and excite. Impurities in pure art form are gifted by afflicted Venus. 

Now, the 3% house. The 3" lord is settled in the 5" house. This 
debilitated 3 Lord-(note that Sun is also debilitated in the 3 house in 
Navamsha and the 3 Lord Venus is placed in the 5" House. 
Debilitated planets in 3° house generally give good results. This 
debilitated 3° lord aspects his own the 2™ house. The third/second 
connection makes one appear on TV screen. Moon and Venus are 
together aspecting the 2™ house. The 5L (Mars) aspects the 7” house, 
giving acceptance of the image by the public and providing good 
public rapport. The principles are applying. 


Astrology of Professions 


IMustration - 3 
We now take up the horoscope of a TV artist, Anchor, Talk show 


producer and a part time ramp-walking model. 


DOB: 6-7-1962; TOB: 01:20 am.; Cochin 

The horoscope shows multiple planetary influences on the 10% 
house. A working persons horoscope who would be enjoying the 
work. Notice the Navamsha. Exalted Mercury aspecting exalted Venus - 
in 10” house. Jupiter, the 10L in own house. Moon the 2" lord exalted 
in 12 house with the OL Saturn. Face (2), Luck (9) and foreign locales 
(12) begin to come into focus. Sun the 3” lord is “digbali” in a 


183 


Television Persons Astrotogy ef Professions 


Ilusteration - 3 
Birth Chart 
6 Jul. 1962 


01:20 am. 
Cochin 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
08°01' 19°57" 04°23' 04°18" 28°55" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
19°20' 2e°2r 16°33' 15°43 45°43 


Dashamsha 


184 


Astrology of Professions Television Persons 


powerhouse of a “Karmasthan”. The trermendous§ strength of 
Navamsha, three exalted benefics, the Venus, Mercury and Moon and 
the fourth benefic Jupiter in own house, indicates the journey from a 
normal middleclass Indian house hold to the ranks of world celebrities 
whose faces are recognized internationally. 

@ Let us test the horoscope on the touchstone of our principles. 

@ Venusian influence on Lagna/Lagna lord of the Natal Chart and 
Navamsha. There is weak influence in Natal chart. The LL (Mars) 
is in Taurus a Venusian sign. It is strengthened in the Navamsha 
where the LL-exalted Mercury in the 4" house mutually aspects 
the exalted Venus. In Natal chart Venus is also the 2L. 2L Venus 
exalted in 10H in D-9 aspected by LL Mercury indicates very 
firmly that face would help the profession. 

@ Venus is afflicted being in Rahu/Ketu axis and aspected by Saturn. 

@ 3“ lord Mercury in 2" house. The person appears on the screen. 
3 Lord is with 8"L (Mars) in 2"% house the person is an anchor 
of talk show says our principle and it applies. 

@ Mercury influences the 2™ house in Natal, 10H and {!0OL in 
Navamsha and the Moon influences 10 H in Dashamsha. Notice 
the 2™° house lordship of Moon in these two divisional charts. 
Mercury and Moon’s influences on 10 H/L and 2 H/L is a principle 
and it applies. 
it is jupiter, the 5L from Moon in natal chart, who places himself 

in the t1™ house in opposition to Moon, generating a “Gaj-Kesari” 
yoga across 5/11 axis involving the 7H. Public image (7) brings gains 
(11) and is used with wisdom (5). Venus is the AmK planet. Television : 
is the profession. 

Television has opened so many new avenues in the area of 
profession; Venusian influence and Venusian affliction are the readily 
notable features of this profession where the talented surge forward. 
Look for Mercury and or Moon influencing the 1OH/L and or 2H/L. The 
AmK planet generally is under Mercury/Jupiter influence. 


185 


The Fashion Technologists 


A coveted and avidly sought after avenue is fashion technology. 


Jt has found favour with the young, upwardly mobile generation of 
urban Indians. A sizeable percentage of girls perusing this option are 
not inclined to follow it professionally. They do these courses to “pass 
time” while awaiting marriage. 


The profession of fashion technology would broadly cover Fashion 


designing, Textiles, Garments, Accessories, Tailoring and Cutting and 
the Fashion shows. This is a very wide range and is difficult to be 
confined within stringent astrological principles. 


(a) 


(b) 


(c 


(d) 


(e 


— 


— 


The principles governing the fashion technologists are: - 
Houses — The houses are 3,9 and 12. 3rd we know Is talents. 9th 
house is there as this is, in most cases, an “add on” education. For 
talents to fructify one needs to go to the “Karma -Kshetra”. 12th 
house is the “Karma-Kshetra” of the 3rd house. 

Planets — Venus majestically rules over this profession. Moon is 
needed to showcase Venusian ideas and crafts. Rahu promotes 
new ventures of his friend Venus. 

Mars-Sat — This is a profession where self-promotion and egoistic | 
belief in self are the stepping-stones to success. Mars and Saturn 
influence the seconct house and the 10th house in most cases to 
promote this. 

The AmK ~— The AmK planet needs to, and does, show 
interaction with Venus, Moon and Rahu and the 3,2,11 houses. 
The dasha — The dasha having link with 3.9 or 12 houses 
operates at the commencement of this career. 

Let us see the application of these principles on horoscopes. 


186 


Astrology of Professions The Fashion Technologists 


IMustration - | 


DOB: 25-3-1961; TOB: 0145; Delhi 

This lacy entered! the Fashion field in the area of designs. And 
bags are her present interest. She is in this field since 1979. When she 
did a 3-year diploma in Fine Arts. 

In her horoscope in the Natal Chart, planet Saturn is in his own 
house and he is with debilitated LL Jupiter and has an aspect of 12L 
Mars. Mars is no friend of Saturn. See the improvement in her 
Navamsha. Saturn in own house, Jupiter in own house and Venus in 
own house. Sun in debilitation in 3rd house is an additional source of 
this augmentation of planetary strength in this divisional chart. She 


IHtustration -[ 
Birth Chart 


25 Mar. 1964 
01:45 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
15°25" 10°38' 18°38’ 17913 as So 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
08°19" 05°27’ 04°52' AZ 3d: 42°35° 


Navamsha 


187 


The Fashion Technologists Astrology of Professions 


married well and life went up a few notches from hér non-descript. 
dreary life. Now notice the Dashamsha. Saturn is exalted; Mars is in 
own house, Sun digbali in 10th house. Venus in own house, Mercury 
in own house. Once she started working there was no looking back. 
One planet in own house in horoscope to three planets in own house 
in Navamsha to 4 planets in exaltation/own house in Dashamsha is the 
"indicator of improved life condition, status, finance, happiness as the 
days go by. This is the romance of divisional charts. We now apply the 
principles. 


Houses 3,9, 12 

3L (Saturn) is in 2H aspected by f2L (Mars). 3L is aspecting 9L 
(Sun) in the 4th H. From Moon, 3L (Sun) is aspected by 9L (Saturn) in 
the 10H, where Venus the 1{2L links up with both 3 and 9* lords from 
his retrograded position in Pisces. 


Planets 

Venus is placed in 5H as lord of 6" and 11" houses. The planet 
shows step-by-step improvement in divisional charts. It is the 10 .L in 
his own 10H in the Navamsha. It maintains the placement in Taurus in 
the Dashamsha but improves substantially by the aspect of Mars and 
Jupiter from the 7 H. In Dashamsha Saturn, is the TOL and is exalted 
in Libra in GH. Venus gets a boost in Saturn’s Mahadasha. jn Natal 
chart Venus has the aspect of Rahu. Secrecy and innovation are a 
designer's traits gifted by Rahu. 


Self Promotion 
Self Confidence and self belief are gifted by Saturn- Mars, Mars 
aspect on Saturn in the Natal Chart gives it to her in a very agreeable 


188 


Astrology of Professions The Fashion Technologists 


manner as it finds no repetition in the Navamsha and the Dashamsha. 


The AmK Planet 

Mars is the AmK planet. It is in Rahu’s constellation and is with 
Moon. The AmK is SL and Moon is the 8L. The “Samagam” of these 
two friends who are the 1 fth and 2nd Lord’s from Moon Lagna brings 
wisdom (5th house) to secret research and sudden gains (8th house} to 
give the native a boost. The AmK planet and Venus are mutually 
aspecting each other in the Dashamsha. 


The Dasha 

Saturn’s MD commenced in 1979. The 18-year girl was launched 
in a very satisfying career of fashion designing. Saturn is 3L in ZH with 
the LL and is aspected by 12L (Mars). Its aspect on 9L Sun completes 
the 3,9,12 link and launches her in this career. 


Illustration - 2 
We take up one more horoscope in the exposition of this 
fascinating profession 


DOB: (7 -1 f-1976; TOB: 11:00 am.; Delhi 

The young lady did her fashion-designing diploma in 96-97. She 
has a brighter tomorrow. Notice that only Mars is in its own house in 
the Natal chart. Of course Jupiter/Venus have exchanged houses. In 


illustration - 2 
Birth Chart 
47 Nov. 1976 


11:00 am. 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
28°17’ 01°27' 00°29" 03°46’ 07°08’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
02°44’ 09°43' 23°14’ 09°52’ 09°52’ 


189 


The Fashion Technatlogists Astrology of Professions 


Navamsha 


Dashamsha 


the Navamsha, Saturn is in its own house and Mercury is exalted in 
10H. This is a Vargottama Navamsha which is a potent augmentation 
of strength. In Dashamsha, Mercury is the exalted LL, Venus is exalted 
in 7H, notice mutual aspect of Venus and Mercury the exalted 10th 
and 9th lords of the Dashamsha. This excellent improvement is 
strengthened by the 11th lord Moon's exaltation in the 9H. Sun in 1 ith 
H is also excellently placed. Since there is improvement in the 
divisionaj charts the native is looking at a tomorrow that is brighter and 
better than today. Let us examine the principles. 


The houses 3,9, #2 
Mars is the 122 in 12H conjunct with 9L and friend Sun, Mars 
aspects the 3H. 


The Planets 
Venus is in the Lagna. Venus is the guardian angel of fashion 
designers. In a Vargottama Navamsha this Venus goes in the 7th house 


790 


Astrology of Professions The Fashion Technotfogists 


and is in the R/K axis. It explodes into its exaltation sign in Dashamsha 
and grips the Znd and 9th lordship to ensure the bond of luck, fate and 
money. Moon in Natal Chart lends a helping hand by being in the 10th 
house. It’s 8th lordship is giving a string of changes but that’s a part 
of the game. Moon is exalted in the 9H in Dashamsha. 


The Self belief 
In this horoscope the Mars-Saturn duet is silent. The lady is shy 
and works diligently promoting others ideas. 


The AmK pianet 
Venus himself is the AmK planet. It is in Ketu’s constellation and 
in mutual aspect with Rahu in the Navamsha. 


The Dasha 
She did her fashion-designing course in Mars/Venus dasha in Feb 
96 - Mar 97. Mars is 12L aspecting 3H and conjunct with OL (Sun). 
Venus is the significator of the course and the AmK of the horoscope. 


Illustration - 3 


DOB: 25-8-1975; TOB: 08:30 pm.; Delhi 
The principles and their application is as under. 


Lag Jup (R) 
Moon 


Sat 


Nlustration - 3 
Birth Chart 


25 Aug. 1975 
08:30 pm. 


Moon Mars Mercury 


08°16' 19°46 12°56: 28°59" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
00°59" 11°19 04°06" 01°56' 01°56" 


191 


The Fashion Technologists Astrology of Professions 


Jup 
Mats 


Rah 
Ven 


Navamsha 
Hee 


Jup Mars 
Sat Moon 
Mer 


Dashamsha 


Houses (3,9, 12) 
- The 3L (Venus) is in the GH aspecting the 12H. Mars the 9L is in 
the 3H aspecting the 3L as well as the 9H. 


Planets 

Venus is in the 6H with Sun and Mercury and is aspected by Mars 
the OL and Jupiter the 10L. This Venus, in Dashamsha is the 3L placed 
in 9H with an exchange of houses with OL (Mars). Mars is also the 2L 
of the Dashamsha. Venus dasha at 20 years of age opens the designer 
doors for the lady. 


Self-belief 

Mars is in the R/K axis in the natal chart placed in the 3 house. 
Mars aspects the 10H and is the 2L. Saturn aspect the 10L in 2H. Mars 
confirms the 10H connection by its aspect on 10H in D-10. 


192 


Astrology of Professions The Fashion Technologists 


The AmK planets 

Moon is the AmK planet. It is receiving the aspect of Rahu. This 
AmkK planet is in exaltation in the Dashamsha and is in mutual aspect 
relation with Venus. 


The Dasha 

The commencement of Venus dasha in Sep 95 saw the lady take 
to a fashion-designing course and later joined an export house. 

In this fascinating profession, we have seen the utilisation of the 
divisional charts. They are the ones that indicate the extent of rise of 
an individual in this profession. 


ie 


Hotel Management 


We, the Indians, have traditionally extended love and warm 
welcome to our guests. In keeping with changing times the hospitality- 
spontaneous and tradition nurtured- became professional and a hard- 
nosed monetary transaction. The Hotels are a part of vast and 
expanding hospitality industry and like most professions in this century 
have taken on a professional tinge under the aegis of various hotel 
management institutes. 

Hotel management, as a profession, is service. It is a part of 
services providing organisations. In any horoscope we find services in 
the 6" house. The hotels provides a place to a person symbolised by 
three monkeys not the wel! known eyes covered, ears covered and 
mouth covered variety but by those whose eyes want to feast on 
things nice beautiful and sensuous, ears want to hear good body 
Stirring exciting sounds, the Mouths want to taste good food aromatic, 
well presented, in an excitement filled ambience. Eyes, Ears and 
Mouth are ail carried by face and face points to the 2 House. 

Now, there is a difference of status amongst the service 
providers. Those working in lower echelons are the 6” house persons 
where as those that hold higher posts are generally the 10” house 
covered persons. 

A very important house for hoteliers is the 4" house. It is the 
house that strives to provide a home away from home. A hotel prides 
it self in providing homely comforts and happiness to its clients. Home 
is 4° house and home away from home is 7 house, which is 4" from 
4" — Bhavat - Bhavam sanctions it. So the houses are 2/4/7 and 6th/ 
10” for this industry. 


194 


Astrology of Professions Hotel Management 


The Planets ’ 
Venus selects itself as the patron planet for the hoteliers. Rahu the 


wily, the secretive, the enjoyer also is prominent in this industry. Rahu 
in 6/12, 1/7 or 2/8 axis with Venus/Moon in PAC ane well for 
persons in this industry. 


The Parameters 

1. The houses/Lords in PAC bond are generally 2,4, and 10. 4% 
house is replaceable by the 7th and 6" is the alternative house for 
the 10°. 

2. Venus is the primary pianet for hotels closely supported by Rahu. 

3. The dasha/AD of Rahu/Venus at appropriate chronological age 
assists in getting employed in this industry. 

4. Rahu/Venus links with other planets and their placements in the 
D/9 or D/10 indicate the connected fields of the Hotel industry. 
Jupiter as always takes one to the managerial area, Mars is the 
construction, installation, executive persons, Satum is maintenance 
and room services, laundry, housekeeping. Mercury is the front 
office, the marketing personnel and the accounts people. Moon 
stands in for Venus especially in banquet halls and the show/ 
exhibitions. 


The AmK Planet 
The AmK Planet would show Rahu/Venus influence on it. 


Iitustration - | 
This is the horoscope of a person who did the hotel management 


course and then joined the industry. 


DOB 1 1-9-1977, TOB 20:44:00 jalandhar 

The horoscopic promises first. The lagna is Aries. Its Lord Mars is 
in the 3 house-an auspicious placement for a malefic. Determined and 
dedicated worker supported by good push of Lacty Luck whose Lord. 
Jupiter is conjunct with the LL Mars in this house. 4 planets are 
strengthening the fifth house. The 5% Lord Sun is further augmenting 
this strength. 10” L Saturn in the same house as the 5” L Sun indicates 
that the native will get educated for the job that he has to do. Since 
both are malefics technical education can be surmised. The native did 
a hotel] management course in Venus/Saturn period. Saturn is the 10% 
Lord and Venus is in 4th house. He joined service in Venus/Mercury- 
Mercury is &"" lord conjunct with Sun and 10 L Saturn. We now study 


195 


Astrology of Professions 


Hotel Management 


lkkustration -i 
Birth Chart 
11 Sep. 1977 


20:44 
Jalandhar 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 

11°33} 25°43) 03°32" 12°54 14°04’ 

Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
23°09" 00°32’ 21°52: 21°52: 


09°11' 


Lag 
Rah 


Navamsha =| 


Dashamsha 


196 


Astrology of Professians Hot. Management 


this horoscope in the light of our parameters. 


Houses 2,4,10 

24 L Venus is placed in 4" house aspecting the 10 house. In 
Navamsha this position further crystallizes. The 4" Lord is Venus who 
now goes to the 7th house, remember we talked of home away from 
home. This 4" Lord is with Mars; the 10" Lord exalted in this house 
and not content with this there is an exchange between the 7th and 
10th Lords and also a mutual aspect. In the Navamsha we find 2L Sun 
in 5" house aspected by the exalted Navamsha LL Moon from 11% 
house. In the Dashamsha, the 2™ L Sun gets exalted and finds himself 
in the 10° house where he gets another source of strength by being 
digbali. Venus is the 4" L conjunct with 10" Lord Mars in the 4” H 
aspecting [OH. Can 2,4,10 get any closer? 


The Planets (Venus and Rahu) 

Venus is the 2L. Venus aspects 10H. Venus is located in 4" house, 
QED. Now Rahu. Rahu is in @/12 axis moves to the 1/7th axis in the 
Navamsha and is aspected by Venus. Rahu is in Hasta the constellation 
of Moon, which gives him push akin to the one given by Venus. 


The Dasha 

The native was born with balance of Ketu dasha of a little over 5 
years. He got Venus dasha for 20 years there after. In Venus/Saturn he 
did his hotel management course and in Venus/Mercury he joined 
service, 

Venus’ links with Mars and Saturn in the D-9 and with Mars and 
Sun in D-10 made him an Executive, Supervising the maintenance and 
services. 

Venus is the AmK planet. [t takes him to Hotels-air conditioned, 
weil laid out, dignified, silks and satin and all things Venusian. 

The parameters applied with discretion and use in broadest sense 
can Suitably indicate the profession. 


Illustration - 2 

Here is the horoscope of a Senior Hotel Executive. He joined the 
hotel industry before the advent of the hotel management institutes. 
He rose to the highest rank in the industry. 


DOB: ![2-6-1932; TOB: 12:12; Coonoor (Nilgiris) 
This Jataka entered the world in Jun 1932 in the Mahadasha of 


197 


Hotel Management 


Jupiter 
2729. 


Moon 

03°01’ 
Saturn 
11°12’ 


198 


Astrofogy of Professions 


Wustration - 2. 
Birth Chart 
12 Jun. 1932 


12:12 
Coonoor (Nilgiris) 


Mars Mercury 
28°48’ 26°53' 
Rahu Ketu 
28°43' 28°43’ 


Astrology of Professions ‘fatel Management 


Sun. Sun is his LL. Sun is placed in the 10° H where he becomes 
digbali Sun is also the AMK Planet. This Sun is closely conjunct with 2L 
Mercury. Now notice the design of this life. 2L is in the 10H. 2L is with 
LL. 2L is in Mrigshira constellation of 4L Mars. 2L and LL (Mercury and 
Sun) are influenced by Venus who is the 10L retrograding in the 11H. 

Take a look at the parameters for Hoteliers. The 2, 410 bond 
exists. This bond is under Venusian influence. The Lagna is in R/K axis, 
Rahu and Venus would influence the Jatak’s life and Karmas. This is also 
the place to take note of an excellent exchange. Mercury and Venus 
are in exchange — 10" and 11" Lords. Karmas related to profession get 
in a position to give gains to the Jataka. Do please keep a note that 
Mercury is 2" L also and Venus is 10 L. This close and tight 2 and 10 
bond improves the promise of a hotel related career. 

Now to the Divisional charts. The Navamsha first. The 2,40 
bond. The 2" L of this chart is in 4% house aspecting the 10" house. 
The bond has been prepared by this planet. There is an interesting 
interplay between the Natal chart and the Navamsha. The 2L of the 
Natal Chart Mercury is exalted in the Navamsha. The 4th Lord of Natal 
Chart — Mars is the LL of the Navamsha Chart and is placed in the 2™ 
house. Now the 10" House. The LL of Natal chart is the 10L of 
Navamsha. This 10L is placed with exalted 11L in 11H. The bond gains 
strength. 

In the DashamSha 2L Venus is in 10 H. The 10L Saturn moves to 
9 Hand aspects 4L — Moon in 3/9 axis — happiness (4) and Karmas (10) 
find expression in efforts (3) and Luck (9). 

The person got dashas that were promoting these outstanding 
promises and propelied him to the top of his chosen field. 


Ikustration - 3 

This is the horoscope of a midcile rung, presentable and amiable 
professional. He is happy and satisfied’ with his work and he aims to 
keep it this way. 


DOB 7-2-1974, TOB 05:34:00 Delhi 

Once again Rahu/Ketu invest the Lagna/7H axis. Moon and Mars 
are in their own houses and 3L Saturn is in exchange with 7L Mercury. 
2L Saturn aspects the 4" house from its placement in 7” H. The 10L 
is Mercury and 2L is Saturn. They have an exchange of house 
relationship. Notice 10 L going to the 3% house produces a hard 
working individual. Now come to the 4L. 4L is in 2H and is aspecting 
the 10H. 4L is also the LL and its location in its debilitation sign in the 


198 


Hotel Management Astrology of Professions 


Illustration - 3 
Birth Chart 
7 Feb. 1974 


05:34 
Dethi 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
27°06’ 24°19’ 24°43' 20°30: 12°13" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
29°28" 03°07' 04°41' 03°58" 03°58' 


Dashamsha 


ee 


200 


Astrology of Professions Hotel Management 


30" degree make this native easygoing and less competitive. 2/4/10 
link is strong. 

In the Navamsha 2H is aspected by its own Lord Saturn. 4" L is 
in 10H aspecting the 4H. 4" L (Jupiter) also reaches out to this 10 L 
and aspects the 10L (Mercury) in the 2“ house. Strong bond made 
stronger. 

Dashamsha chinches it, 2L is Venus in the 2H. 10L is Mercury in 
the 10H with AL Jupiter. Both the 10L and 4L aspect the 4H. The 4b 
in addition aspects the 2L in 2H. ; 

The dasha order for this individual makes an interesting reading. 
He was born with a little less than 7 years of Mercury dasha. This was 
followed by 7 years of Ketu. From 14 to 34 years, he gets the dasha 
of Venus. This Venus is in 2 house in Natal, Navamsha and 
Dashamsha also. Mercury is the 10L in the three charts. Mercury and 
Saturn the 10L and 2L are in exchange in Natal, Mercury and Venus are 
conjunct in: the D-9 in 2H. Mercury and Venus as 10L and ZL are in 
their own houses in Dashamsha. In hotel industry the strong bond of 
2,10 spells success because the speech, sight, smell and taste all are 
in 2H and the Karmas to produce them are in 10 H. The man continues 
to progress despite Jazy “Chalta hai” attitude. The dashas are pushing 
and helpful. 


201 


Computer Professionals 


Computers have opened a new vista in the realm of professions. 
in the seventies and even the early eighties computers were restricted 
to an elite, miniscule group of highly technical persons. There was 
greyness surrounding computers and their applications. 

The initial entry of the computers was characterized by its massive 
size, its requirement of dust free and temperature controlled 
environment. This made its use and access very restrictive. The entry 
to a computer room was what with the hindsight now, a comical 
experience. One took the shoes off and dusted oneself and then with 
trepidation and anxiety tiptoed into the computer room with reverence 
worthy of a shrine. In less than two decades the revered computer has 
been cut to size. It has now been reduced to a lap top toy. Further 
miniaturization would put the mighty computer in a tiny watch. This 
reduction tn size, increase in memory and power have launched a 
sustainable Information Technology revolution. The result is that no 
field is now left untouched by computers. It is becoming clear that 
everyone, barring none, would need to be computer literate. 

What needs to be noted is that in the eighties and even in the 
nineties people took to the computers as an ‘add on” course to 
enhance their employability. It is only in the late eighties that formal 
graduation and post graduation courses in computer application have 
been introduced in Indian universities. In the earlier format one chose 
one's area of interest and took on a limited duration, very expensive 
course from one of the scores of mushrooming computer training 
facilities. Most of these computer edcucation centres were fuily 
subscribed, such was the usefulness of this additional knowledge. 


202 


Astrology of Professions Computer Professionals 


This background of computers poses peculiar problems for an 
astrologer. Now that computers are being formally taught their 
education goes to the 4"/5™ houses in the horoscope. Persons who 
have taken the computer training earlier as an “add on” qualification 
would knock at the doors of 3° house — hobbies, self improvement and 
dedicated hard work all combine to motivate a CEO or MD or 
ambitious young person to devote time and energy in learning and 
mastering a new tool. It is no accident that the house opposite 3% 
house is 9" house, which is a house denoting education after a break. 
Education after finishing formal education is from the 9" house. 

Where improvement was meant for enhancing employability, an 
édge was being sought to beat the compatriots in a highly competitive 
field. This would invoke the powers of the 6" house. 

The houses that need to be examined for a computer professional 
are 3,6,9. The closer the meshing of these houses the better the 
chances of seeing a computer professional. One would notice a 5/10 
connection in all those areas where the basic profession is vocational 
like doctors, engineers, chartered accountants,. civil services, Police, 
Para military etc, and computers *have been taken as an additional 
qualification. It is also for consideration that Moon be given a bigger 
role in assessing the horoscope of a computer professional, since 
computer is related to mind almost totally. 


The Principles 
The principles governing computer education are: 

@ The Houses — The houses 3,6,9 promote computer eclucation. 5/ 
10 connections are seen in formally computer-trained 
professionals. 

@ The Planets — Ketu and Mercury are the basic planets. The others 
are specialization tnclicators. 

@ The AmK — The AMK planet normally should show relationship 
with Ketu and/or Mercury primarily and with Ketu/Venus in about 
20% cases. The interaction with 2/6/10 houses also is noticed. 

@ Relevant Dasha — Dasha of 4,5,10 H/L, Ketu, Mercury. 

At this stage it is worth considering that astrologically we may 
divide computer professionals into 3 major categories: 
(a) Those who study computers formally, do BCA/MCA or BTech. or 
MTech. and then take up computer related profession. 
(b) Those who have studied science or even arts and have migrated 
into computers as a business ventures. 
(c) Those who have been trained as engineers, scientists or other 


203 


Computer Professionals Astrology of Professions 


technical cadres and have migrated to a profession in computers. 

These three categories are being explained with the help of 
horoscope of the relevant category. 

The planet for computers is Ketu. In majority of computer 
professionals cases Ketu would interact with Mercury. We know that 
Mercury is the 3 and 6" lord of the natural zodiac. Ketu’s interaction 
with Venus is also common- this legacy from the air-conditioned, 
sophisticated, Venusian past, in any case computers spell delicate 
sophistication even now. Ketu’s influence on the planets in the 
horoscope by PAC and constellational relationship indicates the area of 
specialization in the vast computer field, 


liustration - | 
(BCA/MCA trained computer professional) 
Balance of Dasha Moon 7Jyrs 5 months and 3 days 

This is the horoscope of 1980 born native. His 10" lord Venus is 
in the 5® house. This is the 5-10 connection; education would be 
utilized in the job. The 5™ house and 5 lord Venus have no malefic 
influence on them; at 12 deg 16 min, Venus is in the Nakshatra of 
Moon. The native learns computer application as the Dashas in 
education period are of Mars (7 to 14 years) and Rahu in very close 
conjunction with 4L Mars (f4 to 32 yrs) Mars and Rahu are placed 
together with Saturn and Jupiter. Mars and Rahu provided the malefic 


Ilustration - 1 
Birth Chart 


40 Apr. 1980 
02:02 


Jup (R) 
Sat «R) 


Lagna Sun Meon Mars Mercury 
06°05' 26°33: 13°36' Q2°2 1" 29°54" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
07°05’ 1216 28°05 04°20' 04°20' 


Astrology of Professions Computer Professionais 


aN a ; 
Ven Moon 
Mars Rah 
2 oS Navamsha 


influence for this technical study. Ketu and Mercury are conjunct in the 
2 house, which indicates computers. 

In this horoscope we now apply the principles. 

The houses are 3,6,9 — 3” lord Jupiter, and the 6" lord Mercury 
are in mutual aspect relationship. Jupiter, the 3 lord being retrograde, 
also aspects his own 3 house from Cancer. Mercury is in Purva 
Bhadra, the constellation of Jupiter. Jupiter/Mercury have a strong 
bond. 

Mercury is with Ketu, which coming after a strong 3,6,9 bond 
begins to show computers as a profession. This is confirmed by 
examining Saturn. Saturn is the AmK planet. It is the Lagna Lord of this 
native. Saturn the AmK is in almost degree aspect with Mercury. The 
AmK in mutual aspect with Mercury/Ketu. confirms computer 
profession. 

Dasha — Rahu/Mercury and Rahu/Ketu are promising dashas for 
the choice of computer career. 


905 


Computer Professionals Astrology of Professions 


Sllustration - 2 


DOB: I-11-1976; TOB: 05:55 am.; Jullundhar 

This is the horoscope of a girl who completed a two-year course 
in computer Software from NIIT during the period of Sep 96 to Sep 
1998. Thereafter worked in a company ET& T for 15 months and is 
presently teaching in a computer institute. We shall try to apply the 
principles formulated in the horoscope of the native. 

Since this native has trained herself for the job let us study 
the 5/10 connections. 

@ From lagna 5* house is Aquarius and 10” lord Moon is placed in 
it. 5" lord Saturn is placed in 10 house. There is exchange of 5” 


Nlustration -2 
Birth Chart 
1 Nov. 1976 


05:55 am. 
Jullundhar 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
04°07" 15°10’ 09°S1' 22°22’ 11°08' 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
04°51' 20% 2' 22°40' 10°00' 10°00’ 


Astrology of Professions Computer Professionais 


| 
Jup 


oe Dashamsha 

Rah 

Mer 

Ven 

| peeey 


and 10% lord resulting in a connection of 5” and 10“ house from 
lagna. Saturn a natural malefic is affecting 5° and 10” house. 

@ From Moon, Mercury is 5" lord placed in the 9" house from Moon 
with the 10” lord Mars, resulting in a conjunction with Sun, Mars 
and Rahu technical planets promising technical education. | 

@ In the Navamsha 5" lord is Jupiter placed in 4" house, with Sun 
- the 10" lord, and aspecting the 10" house. In D-10, 10° lord 
Sun is placed in the 5° house. Here again 5" house is having Sun 
a Malefic promising technical education. 


Application of the Principies 

Houses 3/6/9 — 3 and 6" lord Jupiter is retrograde. From its 
retrograde position in Aries it aspects the 9L Mercury thus establishing 
the 3/6/9 link. 

Planets — Ketu is placed in the 7" house aspected by the 
Mercury. Ketu and Mercury have strong relation as Ketu is at 10 and 
Mercury is at 11°. Ketu is also aspected by Sun and Mars from Lagna 
and by Saturn 5" lord from the 10 house. The interaction of 5" lord 
Saturn placed in 10° house, with Ketu is indicating education and 
profession in the computer field. 

AmK Planet — Mars is AmK planet, it is conjunct with the 
Mercury in lagna and is aspected by Ketu. Mars is piaced in the 
Nakshatra of 3" and 6 lord Jupiter and it also aspects the Jupiter 
placed in the 8 house. Mars is not connected with the 10” house/lard 
from Jagna. However, Mars itself is 3‘ and 10 lord from Moon and is 
placed with the 5" Jord Mercury and 7" Jord Sun. 

Dasha Period of Computer Education — Sep 96 to Sep 98. The 


207 


Computer Professionals Astrology of Professions 


native completed her graduation in Arts in the year199@ and thereafter 
joined the Computer Software course with NIIT in Sep 1996. At the 
time of her computer education the dasha running was 

@ Jupiter/Mercury (13-03-1995 to 19-0@- 1997) 

® Jupiter/Ketu (19-06-1997 to 25-05-1998) 

@ Jupiter/Venus (till 25-01-2001) 

The individual completed most part of her education in the 
Antardasha of Mercury and Ketu. Mahadasha lord Jupiter is the lord of 
3° and @” house. Jupiter is retrograde and is placed in the 8" house 
aspected by lagna lord Venus, and AmK Mars from the lagna. 
Antardasha lord Mercury is the lord of 9" and 12” house and is placed 
in the lagna with Sun, AmK Mars and is aspected by Ketu. 

Ketu the other AD lord is placed in the 7* house aspected by Sun, 
Mercury and AmK Mars. Ketu is also aspected by Saturn 5™ lord placed 
in the 10° house. 


Period of profession Aug 2000 to Nov 200! 

During this period the individual joined service with NiIT and 
ET&T. The Dasha running was Jupiter/Venus and _ Jupiter/Sun. 
Antardasha jord Venus is lagna Jord and 8" lord. Venus is placed in 2™ 
house and is in mutual aspect with the MD lord jupiter. Venus is placed 
in the Nakshatra of Mercury and in Navamsha and Dashamsha; it is 
conjunct with Mercury aspected by Ketu. The other AD lord Sun is the 
11° lord from lagna and is conjunct with Mercury, AmK Mars and is 
aspected by Ketu. 

From Nov 2001 till date. During this period the individual 
changed her job and joined a computer institute as a tutor. The dasha 
running was jupiter/Moon. Moon is the 10” lord from lagna and is 
placed in the 5" house of education. Jupiter and Moon are in mutual 
Kendras giving rise to a Gajkesari yoga. Moon is placed in the 
Nakshatra of Rahu who in turn is placed with the AmK Mars. 11% lord 
Sun and 9" /12" lord Mercury. 

From the above it can be seen that the Ketu, Mercury and their 
interaction with AmK plays an important role in the dasha running at 
the time of education and start of career related with computers. 


hustration - 3 


We now take up a horoscope of a successful businessman who 
has done M.Sc. (Chemistry) and is now in computer related business. 


208 


Astrology of Professions Computer Professionals 


DOB: 5-7-1966; TOB: 01:20:00; Dethi 

Why does this native do M.Sc. (Chemistry)? 

For education the relevant houses are 2,4,5. The second house is 
for early education or “Samskars” a more appropriate term. For M.Sc. 
we need to consider 4" house primarily as this is the education of 
“Sukh”, continuous and paid for by some one. The 5" house comes for 
exercising a choice or effecting a change. 4° lord Moon, placed in the 
10° house aspects 4°: his own house. Education blossoms as the 
aspect of a lord on his own house strengthens and promotes it. 4" lord 
(Moon) is in the house of Saturn. Mercury is the planet in the 4" house. 
It is the 6" lord. [It is in Saturn’s constellation. Saturn/Moon 
combination promises Chemistry and if the dasha/AD permit, the 


Illustration - 3 
Birth Chart 
§ Jul. 1966 


01:20 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
13°49" 18°58 12°02’ 02°19’ 14°15' 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
49°32’ 16°28’ 06°15' 00°53’ 00°53’ 


Computer Professionals Astrology of Professions 


native acquires this knowledge. The relevant dasha was of Rahu who 
is aspected by Saturn. Rahu is in exchange of constellation relationship 
with Sun the 5” lord and is placed with Venus. Venus is in the 
constellation of Rohini owned by Moon. Saturn's aspect on this Venus 
promotes the study of Chemistry by one more step. The AD was of 
Saturn. Saturn is the dispositor of Moon. Venus we know is in Rohini 
— Moon’s constellation Chemistry is the result. But why does this 
education not fructify into a prosperous career? Examine the 4” house 
again. 4° house from lagna has Mercury the 6" Lord; Mars, the 4" Jord 
from Moon, is in the 6" house from Moon. The education is 
overshadowed by the malefic 6" house influences. Notice the aspect of 
10L on the 6" house. 1OL Saturn aspects 6" house from 12" house. 


Why does he do Computer business? 

Firstly see the promise. In Rahu/Mercury and Rahu/Ketu the extra 
knowledge of computers is acquired. The additional acquisition almost 
always commences as a hobby so the 3" house comes in and a serious 
pursuit brings in the 9” house for education after education. Here the 
MD lord Rahu is in the constellation of Sun and Sun is in Rahu’'s 
constellation. Sun is the 5” lord so Rahu's relation with 5 house stands 
established. Sun is in the 3™ house. MD lord's influence on 3 house 
is evident. Now see the 9" lord. Jupiter is the 9" lord. It is in degree 
conjunction with the Sun. Sun is at 18°S8’ and Jupiter is 19°32’. Just 34 
minutes separate these two. The 9" lord is totally combust. The Sun 
has done this deed. The Sun is the king. The Sun will carryout the 
responsibility of the 9" lord. The MD lord Rahu thus promises and 
promotes a hobby that its Jupiter's gift. How does this Jupiter's gift 
translates itself into computers? Ketu needs to come in’ when 
computers are spoken of. So examine Ketu. Ketu is in Jupiter's 


210 


Astrology of Professions Computer Professionals 


constellation Vishakha. And the Dasha is Rahu/Ketu; the period is late 
92 and early 93. The Chemistry postgraduate makes inroads into 
computers. His horoscope has 7 planets in houses 10 to 3, has Dhan 
yogas. 11L aspecting 2L in 2H and 5 and 9L together aspecting the 9" 
house form the Indu Lagna house. So he will do business and Rahu/ 
Ketu put him in computer business. 


UWlustration - 4 


DOB: 5-8-1970; TOB: 05:02; Lat 2928’ Long 77°24’ 
Balance of Dasha — Venus 12 Yrs 6 M 27 days 

Mars is the 5" and 10” lord. Mars is placed in Lagna and it is in 
debilitation. The debiiitation becomes a source of strength as bot!: Mars 
and the Lord of the exaltation sign Saturn are in Kendras from Lagna 
and from one another. This Mars improves in the Navamsha. It is in the 
4" house in Sagittarius but more importantly it has exchanged house 
with Jupiter. The 5° and 107 lord Mars continues to aspect 10° house 
in Navamsha and it does so again in the Dashamsha. Notice Sun and 
Jupiter also aspect 10H in the Dashamsha. Mars is in degree 
conjunction with Sun. It is totally combust. Sun would carry Mar’s 
burden. As would Moon who has exchanged house with Sun. 5L with 
Sun and 4H being aspected by Mars and Saturn indicate technical 
education. ~ 

Mercury/Ketu are conjunct in the 2™ house form Lagna. Ketu in 


Jliustration - 4 
Birth Chart 


§ Aug. 1970 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 


09°12’ 18°42’ 18°17’ 17°54’ 13°28’ 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
05°41’ 02°49’ ' 28°21’. 09°21’ 09°21" 


211 


Computer Professionals Astrology of Professions 


a 
mi 


Nava 
Jup 


Dashamsha 


Mercury’s sign (Gemini) in 10° house of D9, and Ketu with Jupiter (10L 
of D10) in the 6” house of Dashamsha indicate computers as a 
profession. Mercury makes it the one of a computer engineer. 

Sun is the AmK planet. Sun is in exchange of house relation with 
Moon the LL. AmK planet is in Mercury’s constellation. AmK aspects 
10" house both in D9 and D 10. Mercury and Mars influence on the 
AmK confirm computers as the choice of Engineering. Sun the AmK’s 
interaction with Ketu conjunct with Mercury indicates computers and 
Sun's very close relation with Mars the 5” lord as well as the 10° lord 
takes the native to engineering. 


Low Level Computer Professionals 

These are the thousands of young persons working on computers 
in the industry. They are the programmers, software workers, and 
mechanics setting right the computer faults. They have their primary 
education as graduation. They could be Arts, Commerce or Science 
graduates who do some computer training and become computer 


242 


Astrology of Professions Compu’ - Professionals 


professionals. 

Three horoscopes one each of BA, BSc and BCom graduate now 
working in computer industry's lower level drawing a modest salary 
are now being examined. 

Astrologically in these cases a depletion in the planetary strength 
of the AmK planet in the Navamsha chart is visible. The AmK planet’s 
strength is augmented in the Dashamsha promising a stable career. 

The influence of MD and AD lords at the formative period is also 
of crucial importance. 


ilustration - 5 
(Arts Graduate) 


DOB: 13-2-1979; TOB: 16:45; Ajmer 

This native did BA (Econ). 5" lord Mars is in exaltation aspected 
‘by exalted Jupiter from Lagna. The Lagna lord Moon is Vargottama. 

The horoscope did not achieve its full potential as the MD of Sun 
started at the age of 17 years and went on till 23 years. Notice the 
debilitation of Sun in the D-9. A planet gives result according to its 
strength in Navamsha. The AmK planet is Saturn. It is banished in the 
12" house in Navamsha. Saturn is also conjunct with 3 and 6* lord 
Jupiter in 12° house this causes further erosion of the AmK planets 
strength. The AmK is the 9* lord of the Dashamsha and it’s placement 
in the 9* house of this chart shows a stable career. 


lilustration -5 
Birth Chart 
13 Feb. 1979 


16:45 
Ajmer 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
10°24’ 00°35 15°78' 25°05’ 03°53" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
07°56' 15° 2e ABoTS: 23°55: 23°5S" 


Zig 


Computer Professionals Astrology of Professions 


ft fed 


| 
— Navamsha 


Lag 
Sun 


Dashamsha 


The principles covering the computer career are applicable. Notice 
the 5L Mars aspecting the 10H. Mars is also the tOL. Mercury and 
Ketu are conjunct in Natal, in opposition in the Navamsha and the 
Dashamsha. Mercury in 10H of the Dashamsha aspected by Ketu 
confirms a career in computers. 


Hlustration - 6 
(Commerce Graduate) 


DOB: 23-12-1979; TOB: 04:45:00; Ghaziabad 

5L Jupiter a benefic is with two malefic planets in the 10" house. 
Jupiter, the 2"* lord, also has exchanged house with 10L Sun. 5H is 
aspected by Saturn from 11" house. Combination of benefic and 
malefic influences result in Semi Technical education like commerce. 

The AmK planet of this horoscope is Mercury. It has been shunted 
to 6G" house in the Navamsha where it gets Saturn the GL as company. 
The AmK planet continues to be in 6" house in the Dashamsha but 


214 


Astrology of Professions 


Compie: Professionals 


Illustration - 6 
Birth Chart 
23 Dec, 1979 


04:45 
Ghaziabad 


Lagna 
04°29 
Jupiter 
16°38' 


Mars Mercury 
18°27' 20°57: 
Rahu Ketu 


07°26' 07°26' 


Computer Professionais Astrology of Professions 


with a major difference. Its companion now is Jupiter the 5™ lord and 
it is in exchange of sign relationship with Saturn. 

In this horoscope Ketu ts in relationship with Mars. It is aspected 
by Mars in the Natal and the Navamsha charts and is in Aries, Mar’s 
house in the Dashamsha. The native is a computer mechanic. 


Nlustration - 7 
(Science Graduate) 


DOB: 31-3-1977; TOB: 10:45; Jamalpur (W.B.) 
5L Venus is exalted in 10H with Digbali Sun. 5H is in Rahu/Ketu 


Itlustration - 7 Sat (R) 
Birth Chart 


31 Mar. 1977 
10:45 
Jamalpur (W.B.) 


Lagna Sun Moon Mars Mercury 
11°46’ 16°50’ 25°09’ 15°08’ 01°28" 
Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 
05°47’ 26°29’ 16°31’ J0°51’ 00°51’ 


Astrology of Professions Computer Professionals 


Zs Ket 
Mer 
Sun 
Ven 
Mars 
Dashamsha 


tel bel 


Moon 


axis. Notice Saturn with Moon in Cancer in the second house and Ketu 
with Mercury in the eleventh house. Moon is in Mercury's 
constellation. Dasha at birth was Mercury. Venus Dasha commences 
around 13 years of age. Saturn/Moon is generally a pointer to 
chemistry. This native did B.Sc. (Chemistry). 

Moon the AmK planet is in his own house in the Natal Chart. It 
goes to an inimical house in the Navamsha suffering a depletion of 
strength. In the Dashamsha AmK pianet gains strength on two counts, 
first be exchange of houses with Mars its dispositor and secondly by 
being a debilitated 11L in 3H. Ketu/Mercury synergy seen in Natal, is 
repeated in Navamsha and triplicated in Dashamsha. These two are 
Vargottama. Computer as a career is very much on astrological cards. 

Computers are expanding their hold on humanity. They have 
already become an indispensable part of human existence. 


