HOW IS TO DAY 


FOR 
YOU ? 


By 
A. L. Bhagwat, B.Com., C.A.LLB. 


Manager, Rajwade Bank Ltd., 
Dhule. 


Preface 


1 am venturing to publish this book with the 
sole object of convincing the public that certain 
planetary forces are at work on the life of every 
person on a particular day. What these planets are 
and how they work on human life is fully explained 
in this book. 


I have taken great pains in fixing 3 primary 
and 3 secondary planets for every day. The pri 
mary planets play an important role while the secon 
dary planets only cast their shadows on human life. 


It would be presumptuous o say that every 
incident mentioned in the book will occur on that 
day. Mine is an honest attempt to locate 6 planets 
and from their qualities arrive at a fair judgement 
regarding the happenings on a particular day. I have 
rigorously tested the contents for more than 3 years 
before offering the book to the public. 


The book should prove useful to stock exchange 
fraternity, race-fans and to persons engaged in other 
such activities. 


The author, however, does not commit himself 
and accepts no liability whatsoever in case persons 
doing business on the lines suggested in the book 
are put to loss. 


I owe a deep debt of gratitude to Shr R. V. 
Raghuwanshi, proprietor, Shri Gajanan Book Depot, 
Bombay for bringing out this publication. Sincere 
thanks are also due to his press workers for the 
decent and quick work they have done. 


How to Find your Daily Number 


At the beginning of this book, you will find 
four tables. The horizontal column at the top repre 
sents minutes while the left hand vertical column 
represents the day of the week. 

To find out your daily number note the exact 
time in the morning spontaneously. Take into con 
sideration only the minutes. Look for the table 
where the figure of the minutes is given. Then see 
the day of the week. At the junction of these two 
you will get your number for the day. 


For example, say it is Thursday. The time 
noted by you is 7-31 a. m. Ignoring hours the 
number is 31. See table No. 3. You will get this 
number in the first horizontal column. Then look 
for Thursday. At the junction of these two, the 
number is 73. This is your number. Very easy 
indeed. 


Minutes 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 


Sunday 


101 


79 


TABLE FIRST 


41 


24 


80 


47 


38 


II 


81 


64 


103 


106 


15 


Minutes 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 


Sunday 


61 


108 


TABLE 2nd 


20 


41 


87 


74 


89 


15 


21 


88 


22 


24 


80 


22 


76 


86 


36 


30 


90 


47 


38 


23 


64 


25 26 
57 84 
3 45 
68 107 
44 83 
23 105 
65 46 
106 14 


27 


104 


70 


62 


30 


27 


93 


51 


91 


100 


101 


79 


Minutes 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 


Sunday 


31 


32 


41 


89 


15 


24 


80 


34 


76 


86 


36 


30 


90 


47 


38 


TABLE THIRD 


81 


64 


103 


107 


46 


14 


39 


40 


72 


37 


96 


71 


78 


63 


28 


69 


52 


45 


10 


Minutes 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 


Sunday 


46 


76 


86 


36 


30 


90 


47 


38 


47 


81 


64 


48 


85 


58 


77 


20 


82 


32 


103 


49 


106 


107 


105 


TABLE 4th 


104 


54 


27 


93 


51 


91 


100 


101 


79 


69 


52 


57 


10 


24 


92 


59 


41 


48 


89 


60 


54 


43 


+ - 
(Mars, Neptune,Mars) A 
(Jupiter, Moon,'Saturn) 


To-day you wake up with a cheerful frame of mind and a 
sense of physical well being. You are in an extra humorous state 
of mind and likely to tease your wife by cracking jokes. If your 
office or business duties require you to go on a travel, it will be 
canceled to your great relief, you will be glad to hear 
something pleasing regarding the progress in studies of your 
children. You will receive some letters giving you good news 
about recovery of an ailing relative. In your professional 
hours you will make some very profitable deals. In speculative 
business you will profit by entering into bull contracts. The day 
is lucky for jobbing operations also. If you are in service you 
will hear something pleasant regarding your promotion or grade. 
From 6 p.m. onwards, your mind will assume a romantic attitude 
and you will visit some place of amusement in the company of 
your wife. You will in imagination picture a very prosperous life 
for you ahead which will have a tonic effect on your mind. This 
is a good day for purchasing an article of luxury. Do not ride a 
bicycle or a scooter at night to-day as it is likely to cause you 
some accident. Do visit a temple and pray God for your well 


being. You are likely to be more charitable to beggars. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 5 and 9. The 
lucky hours of the day are 8 am. 4 p.m. and 7 to 9 p.m. 
Luck will favour you during these hours. 


2 ( Mars, Neptune, Venus ) 2 
( Mars, Venus, Mercury) 


This is an extremely lucky day for you practically from 6 a. 
m. to 6 p. m. In the morning you entertain optimistic ideas 
about your finances and may decide to try your luck in some 
deal. Family life is very happy and cheerful and you would be 
particularly in a gay mood with your wife. You will have a desire 
to clean and arrange your room and make it tidy. Your friend to 
whom you have lent money is likely to repay the loan before 10 
a. m. You will be disappointed when the postman passes your 
door without delivering you a letter which you have been expect 
ing anxiously. This is a good day to wear new clothes or to change 
your dress. Your meals will particularly be very tasty and you 
are likely to over-eat. This day is particularly lucky for doing 
business on a grander scale. If you have a bull position in shares, 
gold or cotton unload half of your purchases and cover this sale 
three days afterwards, when prices of these commodities go down. 
Deal in Shipping Company or Rayon shares around 12 Noon. If 
you are in service you will find the day without much work to 
day and you will enjoy office hours. After 7 p. m. There is a 
possibility of your meeting an important person. As this period 
is ruled by sun, evening will be more pleasant than usual. Read 
some instructive book. Radio will give you some important news. 


You will have good sleep at night. 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 2, 4 and 7. Auspicious 
periods are from 6 to 10 a. m. and 12 Noon to 3 p. m. Refrain 
from undertaking any new work or deal between 10 a. m. to 12 


noon. 


3 ( Mars, Neptune, Mercury ) 3 
( Jupiter, Venus, Moon ) 


The day begins with your waking from a funny but 
symbolic dream. Unfortunately this is a bit unfortunate day for 
you, You will postpone or cancel an engagement scheduled for 
the morning. You are likely to feel sad and morose during a 
major part of the day. Do not lend money to any person as the 
repayment will be delayed. On this day you will like to be left 
alone but some unwelcome calls from friends would disturb your 
mind. You will lose your normal appetite and will not enjoy your 
meals. During business or office hours you will come across diffe- 
rent problems which will disturb you greatly. It would be to your 
advantage to postpone new business deals, or to reconsider old 
proposals. If you are in service you will find this day a tough one 
as the pressure of work would be too great to bear From 2 p. 
m. onwards you will be relieved from the morning worries and 
begin to feel gay and optimistic. You arc likely to enjoy your 
evening with your family members at home. There is a possibility 
of old or pious persons visiting you. Some of your time will be 
spent in searching some old papers or a misplaced article. You 
are most likely to be more sentimental towards your dear children 
and will play with them with love and affection. Your house 
assumes a gay aspect in the evening. Some financial good luck is 
in store for you or you will get some gift from a friend. If you 
are a religious minded person, your devotion to God will assume 
great depth to-day and your prayers will be granted. You will 
have a peaceful and undisturbed sleep at night. 

Your auspicious numbers for the day are I, 6 and 8. The 
lucky hours of the day are 10 a. m. 3 p. m. and 5 p, m. Any 
deal, proposal or contract made around this period should prove 


a great success. 


4 (Mars, Nep., Moon) 4 
(Sun, Mercury, Venus) 


To-day some incidence will happen which will make you feel 
important. If you are a writer you will produce some inspired 
writing. You are likely to receive a cheque from an editor of 
some magazine. For others also this is a fairly good day except 
ing aspect of health. You will feel a bit run down and will suffer 
from a bad headache. Other matters remain normal. If you are 
a speculator, this is a glorious day to go in long term investments. 
Do purchase cash list shares which will appreciate in value 
shortly to your great surprise. Refrain from doing any speculative 
or jobbing business. Give a holiday to speculative markets. This 
also holds good for business men who deal in other commodities. 
If you are a shopkeeper you will get few customers with big 
orders. Do not place a new order for fresh goods. If you are in 
service you are likely to have to keep late hours. You will return 
home quite tired and exhausted. You will feel blue and out of 
sorts. Control your mind and do not get excited. Go out for a 
night stroll. The influence of moon will bring to your mind ima- 
ginary worries and you will feel much depressed. The best way 
to overcome this malady is to utter God’s name and to offer him 
prayers. As this is only a transitory wave in the mind you need 
not get alarmed about it. You will have a disturbed sleep at 


night. 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 5, 8, and 9. Out of 
this, number 9 will play an important roll. Your auspicious peri- 
ods are from 6 to 10 a. m. and 6 to 7 p. m. Something good is 


likely to happen during these hours. 


5 (Mars, Venus, Sun) 5 
(Mercury, Venus, Mars) 


In the morning you would be pondering over some unfor 
tunate incident of the previous day and try to find out some 
remedy to straighten the situation. The morning is not well set. 
You will be unable to pay your grocer's bill or the rent for the 
month. You will suffer from constipation and flatulence. Lie down 
on the cot, close your eyes and watch the incoming and outgoing 
of your Breath. This will make your mind tranquil and normal. 
You are likely to miss your bus or train while going to your place 
of business or service. If you are a trader, the day is fine for 
sales in your shop. You will be very busy attending to your 
customers. Some of your long standing credit sales bills would be 
paid by your clients. In speculation be a bear operator for job 
bing. Don’t cover your sales in loss even if prices rise. They are 
sure to go down below your sales contract by the end of the 
session. If you are trading in luxury articles and agricultural 
machinery and manure, this is a very good day for you to pocket 
a handsome commission. If you are a speculator in cotton in a 
big way, I should think you will remember this day as the most 
lucky day for the year. Buy at every small rise up to 4 lots. Sell 
out at the first decline and go home with your pockets full of 
Gold Your night time would be much better than the morning. 
You will hear a good music on the radio and will go to sleep 


peacefully. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 4, and 7. Out 
of this, 3 is the important number. The lucky period is from 1 p. 
m. to 2 p.m. 4, p. m. and 9 to 10 p.m. 


6 


(Mars, Venus, Mercury) 
(Venus, Mars, Jupiter) 


To day you are in a romantic and gay mood and desire to 
take french leave. Your wife will be unusually loving and caring 
for your comforts as she had a very dreadful dream about you. 
She would be moved to tears to see you hale and hearty. There 
is all sunshine in the house. You are disposed to be more pious 
and a true devotee of God. Utter his name or read some religious 
book. Such days, when the memory of God makes you humble, 
are very rare. To-day you are destined to be a lucky person under 
the controlling planets of Venus, Mercury and Jupiter. In office 
you will feel very happy. Your work will be appreciated by your 
Boss. If you are in business your position is comfortable. It is 
just likely that an article lying in your shop as unsalable will have 
a client. In speculation, try to make the best of the day. Don’t 
go in for jobbing- Buy in lots at a small rise in 3 lots, hold the 
contract for 7 days and unload it with good profit. Cement and 
Steel shares is a good tip for the day according to planetary com- 
bination. This is a good day for agriculturists to make profitable 
bargains- Speculators in ground-nuts, cotton seeds and oils should 
remain away from the market for the day. Evening will be fine 
and you will feel a sense of comfort and well being. There is no 
thing special to record. You will have an urge to read some 


intellectual work and will go to sleep peacefully. 


Your auspicious numbers are 1, 4 and 6. The most lucky 
periods are 3 p m. to 7 p. m. and 9 to 10 p. m. An extremely 


lucky day indeed. 


+ Z 
(Mars, Venus, Venus) 7 
(Mars, Jupiter, Saturn) 


To-day you are likely to be worried about the health of some 
one in the family. The morning time does not appear to be very 
promising. You are likely to feel exhausted both mentally and 
physically. Try some breathing exercises. In family life, there is a 
possibility of some misunderstanding between you and your wife. 
There is a possibility of your fan or Radio going out of order. 
Breakage of crockery is not ruled out. \ou will go to your office 
or business place as usual. If you are a shopkeeper you are likely 
to get many lady customers to-day. Some rich lady will buy from 
you good stock which will cheer you. The day is bad for specula 
tion. It is advisable to give a complete holiday to stock and bul 
lion markets. You are likely to loose a tidy amount. This day is 
a lucky day for race goers as they are likely to hit the jack-pot. 
The best period to choose your horses is from 12 noon to 2 p.m. 
If you are in service the day is normal. The evening time is 
particularly very pleasant for you. You will feel very cheerful and 
happy. The day is suitable for purchases of fine and costly articles. 
A couple with children will come to pay a visit and you will pass 
a good time in their company. Venus in an active form to-day 
will make you feel more romantic. This is a day for balancing 
your accounts. You will be surprised to see that financially yon 
are in safe waters. Probably you will keep late hours and have a 


good night's rest. 


Your auspicious numbers for to-day are 1, 5, and 7. Out of 
these numbers | and 7 will play some important role. Lucky hours 
are 4 p. m. to 9 p. m. During this period anything undertaken 
by you will be successful. 


8 ( Mars, Venus, Mars ) 8 
(Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn) 
- + 

This is a day on which you will have occasions to show 
some of your martial qualities. You are likely to receive some 
letters which will disturb your mind. Do not be impulsive to ans 
wer but keep the letters in your drawers for a couple of days. 
You will have an occasion to get angry with your servants or 
washer-man. There is also a possibility of your hearing some un 
pleasant words about you from your neighbour. It will be better 
for you to observe complete silence. You will have bad appetite 
and will not be in a mood to enjoy your food. After 12 noon the 
whole outlook of the morning will change and you will begin to 
feel more cheerful and in good moods. The boss is likely to 
make personal inquires about you. For speculators the share 
markets will pose a problem as prices will heavily swing on both 
sides. Try your luck in some bear jobbing. Prices of Gold and 
silver are likely to remain more or less steady. This is a good day 
for traders in edible oil, ground-nuts, or oil-cakes. Do enter in 
some contract to-day which will give you good profit within a 
short period. The evening time will be spent in materialistic enjoy 
ments. You are likely to be more extravagant in spending your 
money over unnecessary articles of luxury. If you are interested 
in sports, the day will give you an opportunity to witness some 
good match such as cricket, tennis or football. You will feel more 


optimistic at night and will have a normally good sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers to-day are 4, 5, and 8. Number 8 
has more significance. Your lucky periods are from 10 a. m. to 


12 noon and whole of the evening. 


(Mars, Sun, Jupiter) 9 


(Saturn, Saturn, Jupiter) 
= + 

The day is dominated by the ruling planet sun and as such 
it is a very auspicious day for you. The morning time will be full 
of sunshine and happiness in your family. This is a good day to 
perform some religious rites at home. Some books which you 
might have lent to your friends and forgotten about it would be 
returned by them to your great surprise. If you are a Government 
servant, be assured that this will prove a lucky day for you. It 
might, be in the way of your grade, promotion or a transfer. For 
speculators, this is a lucky day. Buy shares of Chemical Companies 
They will give you handsome profits in the long run. Do not take 
to jobbing operations to-day as the prices of shares are likely to 
remain steady. If you are dealing in oils, oil seeds, caster seeds or 
ground-nuts and are already a bull, unload some of your stock 
and cover it after 3 days with good profit. Shop-keepers who deal 
in superfine cloth, diamonds, radios and such other articles of 
luxury are likely to reap a good harvest to-day. This is a good day 
for placing new orders. If you are interested in races, a last min 
ute’s change in your selection will give you handsome dividend. 
In the evening buy some good flowers and offer them to your 
chosen Deity. Light some jost candles and go in meditation for 
some time. You will get some new ideas which if translated into 


action will give you some financial lift in the near future. 


Your auspicious numbers for to-day are 0, | and 4. Number 
4 has more significance. Your lucky period is practically the whole 


of the day. 


(Venus, Sun, Saturn) 1 0 
(Saturn, Jupiter, Mars) 


If you are recently married, to-day your wife will have a love- 
quarrel with you. Do not be disturbed as it is only a passing 
cloud. This is a good day for some financial improvement for 
you. If you are a poet or a story writer, hurry up with your work 
in hand and mail it to your editor. You will have produced a 
supreme piece to-day. To-day you will be whistling with joy and 
enthusiasm. If you have a camera do some work with it. It is likely 
that you will get hold of some beautifully illustrated magazine. 
During office hours you are likely to be nick-named a saint. You 
will be very liberal with your purse and entertain your friends to their 
hearts content. If you are a speculator, try some blue chip which 
is not in lime light up till now. Invest in this script and await your 
lucky day. Do not enter into bear operations or jobbing. The day 
is specially favourable for book-sellers, writers and for persons 
doing intellectual work. If you are trading in commodities the 
trend of prices will inspire confidence in you. Do not sell or buy 
to-day. The evening time however would be extremely dull and 
uninteresting. Might be you will have to stay all alone at home. 
Smoke a couple of cigarettes and pass your time with radio. Mem 
ories of your past life will make you feel morose and uneasy. The 
days activities will be drowned in a good and peaceful sleep. 
Before going to bed read some religious book for peace to your 


mind. 
Your auspicious numbers are 1, 3, and 4. Number 3 has 


more significance. The lucky period is from 8 a. m. to 2 p. m. 


Abstain from doing any work at night. 


(Venus, Sun, Saturn) 1 1 
(Jupiter, Mars, Venus ) 


Even though the controlling planets of the day are the same 
as for number 10, Saturn is in a positive aspect. This is a busy 
day for you till evening. You will experience a disturbed condition 
in your daily routine. There is a possibility of your child becom 
ing ill suddenly. You will be in haste during the morning. You 
will hear about some accident in the neighborhood. You go to 
your office with heavy heart and a cheerless state of mind, 
probably you will find out a grave mistake in your previous days 
work. Correct it and be cheerful. For speculators the day is auspi 
cious from 12 noon to | p. m. The Market Trend appears to 
be very oscillating in the beginning but afterwards it will be 
fairly steady. Buy a couple of securities and do some jobbing 
business as quickly as possible with a small margin of profit. 
Traders in cotton will find this day a dull one. They will be 
vexed to find that quotations are not moving either way. If you 
have a bull position in silver unload all your holdings and get 
out of the market. The silver market is likely to decline the next 
day. Race goers should pick up red horses and according to the 
auspicious numbers given below. This is a lucky day for you for 
races, Cards, or some such other things. You will enjoy your 
evening over some entertainment, but will not have good and 


restful sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers for to-day are 4, 5 and 9. Number 
9 will have more influence our good luck. The lucky hours of the 


day are from 12 Noon to | p. m. and evening time. 


12 (Venus-Sun-Jupiter) A 2 
(Mars, Venus, Mercury) 


Lucky is the person who has chosen this number. The 
whole day is controlled by the auspicious planets of Venus, 
Jupiter and Mercury. You will enjoy your moming time in a 
pleasant manner. You will feel that “ All is well with the world”. 
You will be pleasantly surprised to read some important announ 
cement in the newspaper. Your wife will be unusually in a 
pleasant mood to day. You will have a very tasty menu placed on 
your table. You will feel like becoming more humorous in the 
office. On Stock Exchange, prices of superfine cloth and Rayon 
cloth producing companies will shoot up unexpectedly. If you have 
a bull position do not sale out because you find that you will 
make a decent profit. The prices are likely to sour still higher 
within a short period. Dealers in luxury articles will have a very 
busy day. Crockery, perfumery cutlery and cosmetic stores will 
particularly find this day to be a lucky one. Truck owners, taxi 
and auto-riksha owners will reap a good harvest to-day. If you 
have a fancy for races try your luck in the third race. You will 
not be disappointed on the race course to-day. Persons in other 
businesses will have a steady day. Your evening time should be 
spent in some sort of entertainment or a casual stroll. Sex aspect 


will dominate your later hours of the day. 


Your auspicious anumbers are 2, 3, and 6. Out of this 
number 3 has pridominance. Your whole day can be regarded 


as an auspicious day. 


(Venus, Moon, Mars) 1 3 
( Venus, Mercury, Moon ) 


The day is fine. There is all sunshine and nothing much to 
do. One of your neighbours is likely to call on you for a chat. In 
home life you will feel jolly and comfortable. You will possibly 
spend some time in reading old correspondence. This is a day 
to change your clothes. As far as possible use white clothes. If 
you have a diamond ring, it will reveal its potential power to 
day in the form of some good luck. This is a day for cleaning and 
making your room tidy. Some ailing member of your family will 
show distinct improvement in health. This is a very lucky day 
for speculators on the stock exchange. The most favourable 
shares to deal in are Chemical and Rayon shares. Buy these 
shares and hold them till you get a decent profit. Insurance and 
commission agents will do very well to-day. Persons, working in 
Banks and other Commercial houses, will hear some good news. 
This is also a favourable day for persons speculating in silver, 
cotton and copper. Race fans are likely to make hay while, the 
sun shines. They should choose white colts as far as possible. If it 
is a rainy season, agriculturists will find to their great relief that 
“ Rains have come ** Your time from 6. p. m. onwards, however, 
does not appear to be a happy one. Persons suffering from blood 
pressure or asthama will have a bad evening, Take complete rest, 


have a glass of hot milk and go to bed. 


Your auspicious numbers are 2, 3,«and 8. Surprisingly No.. 
8 wtffhave more influence over your activities;of the .day. Your, 


lucky hours are 8 a.n\ to 6 p.m. Avoid argument at night. 


+ : 
14 (Venus, Moon, Venus ) 14 
(Mercury, Moon, Mercury) 


Whatever king Midas touched became gold, luck will turn 
its smiling face on you during the whole day. The day is a day 
of romance, outings, picnics and meeting beautiful ladies. The 
morning is fine and cheerful. You will be very sweet tempered 
towards your wife. If you have a fiancée, this is the day to fix up 
the marriage date. You are likely to receive a thrilling letter from 
her. Marriage proposal about your daughter, if any, will be accep 
ted. If you have misplaced some currency note, you will find it 
miraculously. This is a day for speculators for big business. Take 
a hint from kerb questions that stock market is poised for a big 
rise to-day. Shipping and Motor shares will be in the lime light. 
Do not keep the business pending but unload with a decent mar 
gin of profit. Medical stores will make a roaring business to-day. 
Cloth merchants will have a busy time. The day is also favourable 
for merchants doing business in ready-made clothes, toilet, acces 
sories and toys. Your evening time will be spent in a romantic 
atmosphere. You will most probably go to a picture along with 
your wife. Your mind is likely to be disturbed, with unholy thou 
ghts about other women. This is a lucky day for Race fans. Luck 
will favour you in the beginning. When you loose the first race, 
go home with some good cash in your pockets. Select a horse 
whose name begins with F or G. You will have a disturbed sleep 
at night. 

Your auspicious numbers are 1,5 and 9. Out of these numbers 


1 is of more importance. Your lucky period to-day is the whole 


of the morning. 


15 (Venus, Moon, Mercury) 1 5 
(Moon, Moon, Sun) 


Hardly a more fortunate day than this occurs during the whole 
of the year. You are indeed very luckily if you have chosen _ this 
number to-day. Morning time particularly should prove a 
luckly period for you. Have a look for a second or two at the 
bright Sun-god and begin your day. Family members will all be 
hale and hearty. You are likely to pass a busy but pleasant time 
in the company of your dear friend. He is going to do you a great 
favour. You will receive some pleasant letters, from your friends 
or relatives. If you are thinking of going to a foreign country, 
the day is lucky to make a move in this direction. If this happens 
to be a day of some examination result, your success is assured. 
For Stock Exchange fraternity, the day is quite good. Sell short 
and cover the sale at a good profit. Pick up some script on the 
cash list also. This is a normal day for other businessmen and 
traders. This is an auspicious day for placing new orders for 
medicines and foreign articles. Speculators in cotton and oil-seeds 
will have to mark time for want of price movements. Do not enter 
into any new contract to-day. Race-lovers will have a pleasant 
evening. Do not stake money on the advice of friends but use 
your intuition. A fluke horse having a white crescent moon on 
his forehead is the horse for you. Your evening hours are likely 
to be very gay and pleasant. Do go to a good hotel for a snack 
and a good cup of tea. You will pass the earlier part of the night 


in romantic thoughts and get a good sleep later on. 


The auspicious numbers for you are 0, 1 and 3 out of these 


Nos. 1 is significant. Your lucky periods are full morning and 
2 to 8 p, m. 


‘ : 16 


(Venus, Moon, Moon 


(Moon, Sun, Mercury) 


For you the day is one of miscalculations and misadventures.. 
You should be very careful as to what you do, write or speak 
You are likely to suffer from a bad cold or sore throat. Your 
eyes also would cause you some trouble. Some great hope which 
you have entertained will be smashed and you will feel disillu 
sioned. However in other respects the day is a fairly good one, 
particularly for home life. You will be required to visit a friend who 
has taken very ill. In your official routine, you will not take much 
interest in your work and are likely to commit great mistakes. 
Be prepared to hear some fire-works from your Boss. It is a hay 
day for speculators on the Stock Exchange. Quotations will move 
up briskly during the last hour. Buy blue chips such as Tata Ord. 
or Century. Sell off with a good margin of profit and go home. 
Gold and silver markets are likely to remain firm but the price 
changes. Do not warrant any profitable business. Prices of oil 
cakes, groundnuts, cotton and gram will show a downward trend. 
Do not go in for short sales. Race goers and gamblers should 
refrain from changing their selections at the last moment. In short 
confusion of mind will involve them in great loss. The evening 
time is very pleasant and you are likely to catch up some new 
idea and try to spin your prosperity around it. Take a sleeping 


pill before going to bed. 


Your auspicious numbers are 1, 3, 4. Out of these numbers 


4 predominates, your lucky hours of the day are 12 noon to 5 p. m. 


17 


(Venus, Mars, Sun) 


(Sun, Mercury, Venus) 


You wake up with a sense of great fatigue and physical 
illness. It might be fever or indigestion. Take a mild purgative 
and observe complete fast. Harmony in family life is likely to be 
broken and you will have some hot words with your wife or 
daughter. Your radio or fan is likely to go out of order. You 
will be angry with your grocer or some other shopkeeper 
for supplying you goods at a very high price. Keep your temper 
at least during the morning. You will be in a mood to write some 
offending letters which you should avoid. In office the work is 
likely to be unusually heavy and possibly you will have to do 
additional work. This is a very unfortunate day for speculators 
as they are likely to suffer heavy losses. Panic on the Stock Exch 
ange would induce you to square up your holdings. This will be 
a fatal step. Do not do anything to-day. Pay your broker addi 
tional margin if he demands. Persons dea’ing in commodities also 
will be caught in the net. Many persons dealing in such things 
will come to grief. Persons dealing in jaggery and linseed oil will 
have a good day. They should unload their holdings at a good 
profit. In case they miss the bus, they will have a cause for regret. 
All your selections of horses on the Race course will go fut and 
you will return home with a melancholy mood. It would be better 
to give a holiday to Races and Cards. Evening will be a pleasant 
time for you. 


Your auspicious numbers are 3, 5 and 7. Lucky period is 
only evening time. 


18 


(Venus, Mars, Mercury) 
(Venus, Mars, Mercury) 


The morning time is very favourable for a happy family life. 
You wake up with a cheerful frame of mind and are likely to be 
oblivious about happenings around you. You will enjoy a stroll 
in the town or will visit your dear friend. Do bring something 
novel for your children. You will be whistling in your bath-room 
with joy. Your meals will be very tasty and with a overloaded 
stomach you will attend your office. From 12 noon onwards you 
will have the pressure of work and feel tired and exhausted. For 
speculators it is a day of great swings. Prices are likely to move 
both ways and you are likely to be caught in an uncomfortable 
position. It is better not to do anything to-day. For traders 
dealing in jaggery and gram this is a lucky day. Their stock is 
ikely to show an appreciable rise in prices. It is better to dispose 
off at least some stock and book profit. Agriculturists will have 
a fine day. This is an auspicious day for them to execute their 
plans. For Race-goers this day is a day of mixed luck. Your 
stakes at the beginning are likely to fail but the end of the day 
is likely to prove very lucky. Horse whose name begins or con 
tain. D is a good horse to fancy. Pick up some horse who has a 
near on Ins body. The evening time is quite normal and peaceful. 
You will not be doing anything special. You will receive some 


important telephone. You will sleep peacefully. 


Auspicious numbers for to-day are I, 2 and 6. Number 6 is 


meaningful, | ucky hours of the day are morning and evening time. 


(Mercury, Mars, Venus) 1 9 
(Venus, Mars, Jupiter) 


You wake up with a feeling of financial ease. The atmos 
phere around you is peaceful and comfortable. You are likely to 
undertake son; intellectual work to-day. You can exp:ct some 
letters giving you good news about money. You will feel optimistic 
about your financial position and imagine a more comfortable 
home life in the near future. A close relative of yours is likely to 
secure a room. As however the day advances, the morning glory 
will begin to fail and you are likely to encounter some trouble 
ahead. If you are in service, the day is hard for you. You will 
have much work to do or will be required to search old corres 
pondence. You will have same hot words with your subordinates. 
For speculators the day is not a favourable one. The 
influence of Mars will land you in troubles. It is better not to do 
anything to-day but to sit tight on your commitments. Traders' 
dealing in fire arms, machinery and agricultural products will find 
the day a lucky one. They will do very good business. Prices of 
silver are likely to fall. If you have a bear position, cover the 
s lies and get out of the market with decent profit. For race-goers 
the day is of mixed luck. Avoid to stake your money on white 
horse. Do not play 9th horse or 9th race. If you play cards at 
night with ladies you are sure to earn a tidy sum. In the 
evening you will feel homesick and would like to be with your 


family at night. You will have a peaceful and sound sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers are 4, 6 and 8. No. 8 has more 
significance. The lucky period is morning time and from 6 p. m. 


onwards 


(Mercury, Mare Mars) 20 
(Mars, Jupiter, Saturn) 

Excepting morning hours the rest of the day will be a day 
of great troubles, anxieties and physical illness. You are likely to 
be called upon to contribute unwillingly to some charitable cause. 
In family life there will be some petty quarrels with your wife 
and you will be harsh towards your children. Keep your temper 
and avoid your friends. You are likely to suffer from blood 
pressure and stomach troubles. Take some light food and 
attend your office as usual. The office atmosphere is also likely 
to be most uncomfortable and you will have no heart in your 
work. Some development regarding your change of work or a 
transfer is not ruled out. For stock market operators the day is 
most unlucky and so it is advisable to abstain from doing any 
new business. Whatever business you do to-day is likely to go 
against you. So do not work on hunch or on the advice of astro 
logers. The stars are not favourable. Dealers in red articles are 
likely to benefit To-day. Other traders will find th s day 
most unlucky. Prices of agricultural produce are likely to go 
down causing anxiety to agriculturists in general. For race-fans 
this day is most unlucky. You are likely to lose heavily to-day. 
Avoid cards and gambling. Beware of some accident in the 
evening. As far as possible it is better to stay at home and 
spend the evening in reading. If you are a writer, you are 
likely to be worried over the success of your current writing. 


You will have a disturbed sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers are 1, 7, and 9. No. 7 is more 


significant. Your lucky period is only between 12 Noon to 2 p.m. 


21 


2 ] (Mercury, Herschel, Jupiter) 
(Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn) 


= + 

You are extremely lucky if you have picked up this number. 
The morning time is particularly suitable for financial pursuits. 
Go ahead with any financial idea you may have in mind for a 
long time. The day is good for recovery of dues. In family life 
you will be very happy and comfortable. You are lucky to meet 
rich persons accidentally. This is a day for purchasing 
valuable articles. If you are wearing a Mercury or Jupiter ring, 
keep it in bright sun light for some time and again pat it on 
your finger. You will have a satisfying change in your menu and 
you will go to office or place of business in a cheerful frame of 
mind. For Stock Exchange fraternity, the day should prove to 
be one of great sweet surprises. Do business contrary to your 
thinking. This will succeed. Do some bull jobbing. You will 
find Iron and Steel, Machinery and Motor shares worth dealing 
in. This is a great day for operation in silver and other valuable 
metals. Any bull business done to-day will prove to be profitable. 
Dealers in fancy dresses, toys and jewelery will find the day 
specially lucky. The day is also very auspicious for opening a 
new shop or to legalize a contract. Race-goers will find that 
selection of horses made by drawing lots will bring them good 
dividend. This is a day for 
them to earn more money. Evening time will be favourable for 


entertaining spiritual and noble thoughts. Night will be peaceful. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 4, 5, and 9 


lucky hours are from 6 to 12 Noon and 3 to 8 p. m. 


(Mercury, Herschel, Saturn) 22 
(Saturn, Saturn Jupiter) 


7 + 

This is a queer day for you in so far as the planet Herschel 
is in one way in conjunction with Saturn. In the morning you 
arc likely to experience some unexpected luck in regards to 
money matters. You will be in the company of witty friends. 
This is a good day for permanent investment. Do purchase some 
machine such as sewing machine or a type-writer. Friends will 
take much of your time unnecessarily and you will find it difficult 
to attend your office in time, in office routine you will be 
required to attend to some unusual and novel duty. Office hours 
will not be so comfortable. Speculators on stock exchange should 
be very careful to-day. They will be completely deceived 
by the pattern of to-day’s working. It would be better for you 
not to transact any new business but to sit tight on previous 
holdings. This is a good day for traders in machinery and luxury 
articles. There is a possibility of a great flutter in prices of 
ground-nuts and cotton seeds. For race-goers it is a lucky day. 
Select horses whose numbers are 3, 5 and 6. Black horses arc 
likely to win. You will be tempted to spend your race earnings 
in purchasing some fancy articles which are not of much use 
to you. In the evening you will not feel well and might suffer 
from toothache or car troubles. Sleep will be disturbed and unsound. 

Your auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 5 and 6. Number 
6 is more significant. Your lucky period is morning time and 


Noon. 


(Mercury, Herschel, Saturn) 23 
(Saturn, Jupiter, Saturn) 


- + 

To-day you will experience a greater influence of Saturn on 
all your activities of the day. Saturn is a materialistic planet and 
in conjunction with Herschel will bring you some materialistic 
enjoyments. You will be tempted to purchase articles of 
luxury. Go in for pending purchases to-day. Morming time is 
especially very pleasing and you will feel elated. Some unexpected 
good events are likely to happen to-day. There is all sunshine 
in the house. You will attend office before time. In office you 
are likely to meet some strange persons such as lottery ticket 
sellers, insurance agents, and bridegroom hunters (if you are a 
bachelor). Stock Exchange will be erratic and stock operators 
will be surprised to see that in both bull and bear jobbing they 
will succeed. Do some ‘big’ business to-day and square it up 
around | p. m. This is a gambler’s day.* You are likely to 
succeed in cards and other forms of gambling. Traders in edible 
oil, ground-nuts, sesame and oil-cakes will make hay while the 
sunshines. This is not a lucky day for dealers in valuable metals. 
For race-fans, the day will prove very lucky. Persons who have 
chosen this number will win the 7th race, or they should stake on 
a horse whose number is 7. Choose also black horses as far as 
possible. Towards evening you will begin to feel depressed and 
morose. Probably one of your children will be slightly ill. Sleep 


will be disturbed and your wife will have a nightmare. 


Your auspicious numbers are 1, 5 and 7. No 7 will be more 


significant. Lucky periods are morning and 12 Noon to 2 p. m. 


24 (Mercury, Herschel, Jupiter) 24 
(Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn) 


+ = 
This is a fine day for you in your family life and business. You 


will wake up with an idea that you are controlled by some 
supernatural power. Some queer things are likely to happen 
during the course of the day. You are poised for a religious frame 
of mind and might devote some of your time in worship or 
reading religious books. You are likely to receive long expected 
letters. There is a possibility of your being lite in your office or 
business place due to missing your bus or train. The office at 
mosphere is much better to-day and you will be relieved from your 
previous days anxiety about some office work. This is a normal 
day on the stock exchange. Blue chips would show some flutter 
and you can take some advantage of the price range. Do not do 
jobbing but hold on to-day’s contracts till settlement. Iron and 
Steels, Machinery and Construction Company’s shares are a good 
catch for the day. This is a lucky day for traders dealing in high 
priced articles such as Radios, Sewing Machines and Fans. You 
can safely place new orders for your goods. On the race course 
hot favorites will completely fail. Use your own discretion in 
the choice of horses. Horses of mixed colour such as Brown and 
white or black and white are likely to win. 4:h race will bring 
you good luck. Do not however stake too much money on 
horses. Your evening time would be spent in serious contempla * 


tion. Night will be peaceful. 


Your auspicious numbers for to-day are 0, 2 and 5. Lucky periods 


are from 8 to 10 a.m. and evening time. 


(Mercury, Jupiter, Mars) 25 
(Saturn, Saturn, Jupiter) 


_ + 


Difficulties will come but they would be warded off. The 
day can be described like this. You will pass your morning time 
in a very unhappy frame of mind. Sadness consequent upon your 
remembering past happy life will make you sad. Cheer up and go 
for shopping if possible. You arc likely to receive some letters 
causing you disappointment and worry. You will not feel like 
doing anything and would desire to give a holiday to your 
work. Gastric troubles and _ biliousness will make you 
uncomfortable and you will not enjoy your meals. In office 
also unforeseen work wilt be placed before you making you 
diffident to carry it out. For spectators on the stock exchange 
the day is not favourable. The day is good for investment 
business. You should neither indulge in jobbing operations nor 
enter into forward contracts. Hie day is a hay day for oil kings 
and persons dealing in oil cakes and seeds market. Make the best 
of the day and do business on a bigger scale. Do all your 
business before 3 P. M. and go home. You will not repent. For 
Race-goers the day is a doom’s day. It is better to stay at home 
and save money. All your judgments and calculations will go 
wrong. Instead of visiting race course go tosome good hotel and 
enjoy some snacks and a cup of tea. Evening time is controlled by 
Mars. Walk carefully on the road lest you will have some accident. 


The night time is troublesome and you will not sleep well. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 3 and 7. Num 


bers is significant. Auspicious periods are from 12 Noon to 2 p.m. 


(Mercury, Jupiter, Venus) 26 
( Saturn, Jupiter, Mars ) 


This is a good day for you generally. This is a day on which 
you should expect some monetary gain. The morning time is fine 
and you will find yourself in a cheerful and happy frame of mind. 
This is a day for putting money in the Bank. You are likely to 
meet persons who are fully business minded and you will be 
tempted to enter in some sort of partnership with one of them. It 
might be a joint purchase of a book or magazines also. You have 
a good and tasty meal and will attend office with good spirits. 
The position of Jupiter from 12 Noon to 6 p. m. is especially 
auspicious for you. For persons operating on the Stock Exchange 
the day should prove a lucky one. Long standing Bull Contracts 
are likely to be squared up with a good margin of profit. This is 
a day for doing bull jobbing. In Teji-mandi transactions play Teji 
to-day and you will not repent. Persons dealing in silver 3nd cot 
ton will find this day exceptionally lucky. You are advised to do 
bigger business in these two things. Prices of cotton will begin to 
shoot up from to-day. For race-goers also the day will pay them 
good dividend. Fancy white horses. Do not play when the mid 
race is over. Close your eyes and intently think of a horse. That 
is your winner. For the evening you are adviced to devote much 
of your time to your family needs. Have a good and loving talk 


with your wife. Your sleep will be sound and sweet. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 0, 1 and 2. No. 2 is 


significant, Practically the whole of the day is lucky for you. 


(Mercury, Jupiter, Mercury) 2/ 
( Jupiter, Mars, Venus) 


This is a day when Goddess of wealth will visit you with 
asmiling face. Do some big things to-day. Your morning hours 
are likely to be exceptionally favourable and lucky. This is a day 
on which you should make your wife happy by buying some 
new garments or an ornament .Some elder person from her father’s 
family is likely to visit you. To-day you are likely to be more 
religious minded and bit more serious in your behaviour. 
Pray God fervently and do some religious rites if possible. Your 
office work will be normal. Nothing special to record. For 
operators on the Stock Exchange this should prove a lucky day for 
them. Go in for textile shares. Do not do jobbing to-day but hold 
your contracts. If you have a bull position already you should 
unload at least three forth of your holding which you can cover 
with good profit before settlement. This is a lucky day for money 
lenders and pawn brokers. Some overdue loans advanced by them 
are likely to be repaid in full with interest. The race-course, for 
you, will prove to be a “ cave of forty thieves.*' Take more money 
with you. Horses with mixed white and brown colours are 
likely to win- Horse number 3 in the fifth race will bring you 
good dividend. This is aday for silver kings as there is a 
possibility for them to do business on a gigantic scale with 
future good profits assured- Night time will be very fine and you will 


sleep well. 


Your auspicious numbers for to-day are 3, 5 and 7. Number 


7 is significant. Your lucky period is morning time. 


+ - 
(Moon, Jupiter, Moon) 28 
(Mars, Venus, Mercury) 


To-day you will do things which you would mt ha\e done 
yesterday. The mischief of Moon is certainly there. In the morn 
ing you will get some disappointing news. It might be some impor 
tant appointment being postponed. Take care of your dog if you 
have one. He is likely to be involved in some accident. If you 
have decided to go for swimming or a dip in the sea, drop the 
ideaas there is danger for you from water. You are likely to 
suffer from a cold and will feel raw. It is better to observe fast 
to-day- Office hours, however, will be quite happy and 
cheerful. You will be required to do some such work which is 
only apparently difficult and beyond your capacity. The day on the 
Stock Exchange to-day will prove a deceptive one. Do not be 
enamored by the price pattern. If at all you want to do some 
business go in for Shipping shares. Forward dealing in these 
shares will give you good profits. It is however advisable to 
refrain from doing any business to-day. Persons in other 
commercial activities will find this day to be a day of deception 
and frustration. For race-fans this is a most unlucky day as all 
their selections will prove to bea complete failure. Money not 
staked is money gained This should be the moto for to-day. 
Evening and night time is pretty well. Have a stroll in the 


gardens or on sea shore with your family. Sleep will be sound 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 3 and 7. No 


1 is significant. It is hard to locate lucky period today. 


29 


29 (Moon, Saturn, Sun) 
(Venus, Mercury, Sun) 


To-day you are likely to enjoy many material pleasures of 
life such as good food, amusements and sports. The day opens 
cheerfully as you wake from a sound sleep. If you look in the 
mirror you are likely to feel yourself quite young and energetic. 
This day is specially good for persons of older age. They will 
feel quite fit and healthy They are likely to feel more homely 
with young boys and girls. They should please them by buying 
sweets or toys- Some of your morning time is likely to be spent 
in office work which you have brought home. Writers and poets 
will find the day inspiring and they are likely to write good 
many pages to-day. Musicians will enjoy the morning with their 
daily practice. Office routine will be quite normal. Your boss is 
likely to make calls on you on and oft. For speculators on the 
Stock Exchange, the day should prove to be generally auspicious. 
This is the day for the bears. If you have bear holdings with you 
already, to day is your good opportunity to unload. You will feel 
very happy and elated at your good luck. The day is most 
favourable for traders in oil seeds and oil-cakes. They should buy 
at every rise at least in 3 lots. Race-fans also would be lucky 
to-day. Their selections should prove wonderfully correct This 
is a day for making ea‘y money. Black horses are likely to be 
winners. Towards evening you will begin to fed yourself 


more safe and financially sound. You will have good sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers for to-day are 1, 3 and 5. No. 5 


is significant. Lucky period is morning time and evening time. 


30 


3 0 (Moon, Suturn, Mercury) 
(Mercury, Sun, Moon) 


The day is generally a good day for you. Morning hours 
arc likely to prove lucky and you should plan your ideas, sec 
tion of shares, horses etc. during morning hours. Some good 
luck is in the offing to day. The day is good for spending more 
time in the bath room under a cool shower. You are likely to 
meet jolly friends and will spend your time in their company. You 
will also receive some good letters from unexpected quarters. If 
you have a relative in the foreign country you will receive some 
good news from him. The morning time is suitable for purchas 
ing some articles of luxury. You will attend office with some idea 
of good luck. Office work would be a bit heavy and taxing. 
Operators on the stock exchange will find this day to be a very 
lucky day. This is a day for big business. Do forward bull 
business as prices are likely to shoot up. Investment Company, 
Insurance and Bank shares are likely to show a great flutter. 
Traders in oil, oil seeds and oil cakes will find the day an extre 
mely lucky one. If they have bull contracts this is the day to 
unload. It would be profitable to sell double. For race-goers also 
the day should prove a good day. Stake on Black horses and on 
horses whose number is 6. Sixth race should prove more lucky as 
the amount of Tote is likely to be very big. You will spend the 
evening nicely and in a cheerful mood. Visit a garden or a 


museum. You will go to sleep peacefully over an amusing book. 


The auspicious nurabe.s for to day are 1,2 and 6. No 6 


is significant. The lucky period is morning and evening hours. 


(Moon, Saturn, Venus) 3 1 
(Sun, Moon, Sun) 


_ + 


This is an auspicious day from the point of view of family 
life- Settlement of marriage of son or daughter is possible on this 
day. You will find yourself in a very happy mood in the morning. 
All will be cheerful around you. Some female relative is likely 

to visit you. This is an auspicious day for taking out an insu 
rance policy, sending a crossword puzzle or buying a lottery ticket. 
Your meals are especially to your liking and you attend your 
office or place of business with an optimistic frame of mind. 
However in the office, the work is likely to be a bit taxing and 
heavy. Give full attention to whatever you do. For Stock Exch 

ange fraternity the day will prove to be one of good as well as 
bad luck. For previous bull holdings will appreciate in value, 
but you are likely to enter into some bear operations which will 
bring you in some trouble. For traders in oil seeds, oil cakes and 
oil this is the last day of top prices and if you have bull contracts 
already sell double and reap profit both ways. For dealers in 
silver this is a normal day without any flutter in prices. 
Dealers in articles of luxury will have a busy time throughout 
the day. Race-fans will have great surprises in store for them. 
Play on hunch and you will succeed. Horses with black and 
white mixed colours are likely to win. Avoid race No. 3 and 6. 


Evening and night time will be romantic. You will sleep well. 


Auspicious numbers for the day are 0, 1, and 5. No. 1 is 
significant. Lucky period for the day is morning and evening time 


only. 


(Moon, Saturn, Mars) 32 
(Moon, Sun, Mercury) 


This is likely to prove a troublesome day for you in many 
ways. You wake up with a bad headache and biliousness. The 
world around you has assumed a sombre aspect. You will feel 
sad and down hearted. Your temper will be bad and you are 
likely to have some hot words with your wife. Go for an outing 
to ease your troubled mind. This is the day for self surrender to the 
will of Almighty. As your stomach will be upset you will not eat well. 
In office also the time is a bit hard as you will have big pressure 
of work and will be required to keep late hours. For stock opera 
tors the day would prove to be an unfortunate day. If you have 
a forward bull position in the market, prices will tend to decline 
to an alarming extent, making you panicky. This is a day of great 
loss for you. It would be better not to dabble in the market to 
day. Persons dealing in oil, oil-seeds, oil-cakes and cotton should 
be very cautious to-day as their ideas about the position of mar 
ket will completely go wrong. Do not do any new business to 
day. For Race-fans also the day is most unlucky. A Horse which 
they might have selected will have a fall and would be wounded. 
However there is a possibility for them to win a couple of races. 
The evening time is not very auspicious as you are likely to get 
yourself involved in some accident or quarrel. Sleep will be dis 


turbed and uncomfortable. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 2, 6 and 9. No. 6 


is significant. Your auspicious period is only around | to 3 p. m. 


33 


(Moon, Mercury, Jupiter) 
(Sun, Mercury, Venus) 


This should prove to be a very lucky day for you as all tho 
three auspicious planets are controlling your life’s activities for 
to-day. You will wake up very cheerfully and with some new ideas 
in your mind. If you translate these ideas into action, you will 
succeed. The day is particularly lucky from the point of view of 
monetary gains from unexpected quarters. You are likely to pass 
a happy time in the company of ladies of good culture and edu 
cation. This is a very lucky day for poets and writers. Whatever 
they will write to-day will have great public appreciation. They 
should go in for romantic literature. You will have good and 
heavy meals and will go to office with optimism and a cheerful 
frame of mind. In the office also work will be quite normal and 
according to your liking. On the Stock Exchange to-day whatever 
you do on bull side will pay you good dividends. Prices of shares 
which you purchase on forward list will shoot up within a short 
time- Go in for Shipping, Rayon and other such blue chips. This 
is a good day for pawn brokers and Sarafs. They are likely to 
get solid customers. There is likely to be a flutter in the silver 
market and you are advised to take advantage of the position. 
Oil, oil-seeds and jaggery merchants will find this day normal 
with nothing to do. This is also an extremely lucky day for you 
on the Race course. Go in for white horses. You are likely to 


win two consecutive race*. You will have comfortable sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers are 1, 5, and 9, The whole of the 


day, particularly evening time will prove extremely lucky. 


34 (Moon, Mercury, Saturn) 34 
(Mercury Jupiter, Mars) 


This is normally a good day for you with nothing unusual 
to record. You will spend the morning quite happily at home 
probably reading or arranging your room. Luckily you will find 
some lost article. Relations of your wife with you would be more 
than cordial to-day and you are likely to discuss with her family 
problems. Some one amongst your neighbour will pay you a visit 
and you will spend some happy time in his company. Have a 
good bath and offer prayers, take your meals and go to your office. 
To-day you will be required to clear up some long pending work 
and would feel exhausted. For speculators on the Stock Exchange 
the day is quite normal with nothing to do about old contracts. 
You can however do some bear business and hold the contracts 
for a couple of days for a decent profit. Bank, Insurance and 
Investment Company shares are a good catch for you to-day. 
This is an excellent day for operation in oil, oil-cakes, oil-seeds, 
jaggery and pulses. You may do bigger business to-day. This is 
a day for you to add to your previous bull position even at a 
higher price. Silver prices are likely to remain steady and you 
n:ed not do any new business to-day. For Race fans this is a 
day of mixed fortunes and misfortunes. It is better to be cautious 
in the selection of horses. Brown coloured horses are the likely 
winners. Evening time will cause you some unnecessary worry, 


you will have a disturbed sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers to-day are O, 4, 7. No. 4 is signi 


ficant. Your auspicious period is from 10 a. m. to 6 p. m. 


35 


(Moon, Saturn, Mercury) 
(Venus, Mars, Jupiter) 


This should prove a lucky day for you from materialistic 
point of view. You will wake up with some romantic attitude of 
mind. You will be exceptionally loving towards your wife and 
children. You are likely to read some astounding news in papers. 
This is particularly an auspicious day for musicians, painters and 
writers. Whatever art they produce to-day will be highly appreci 
ated by the public. Avoid swimming and journeys by sea. To-day 
you are likely to undertake some new activity which will be a 
failure in the end. This is a good day for office workers also, 
particularly for persons in technical lines. Work will be normal 
and not tedious. For stock exchange operators, this is a merry 
day as quick profits are in the offing. This is a day for bull job 
bing in shipping, and Rayon shares. Enter the market as soon as it 
starts working and sell out at the close. It is likely that the 
price pattern would be such that you will be able to take advan 
tage both as a bull and a bear. For persons trading in oil, oil 
seeds, etc. this is a very lucky day for entering into big bull con 
tracts. Your profits would be beyond your expectations. For race 
fans the day is unusually lucky. Black and white coloured horses 
arc likely to win. Do not stake when half of the races are over. 
You are likely to win in the Ist, 4th and Sth race. Night time 
will make you physically unwell and you will have a 


disturbed sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 4 and 5. The 


lucky period of the day is morning time. 


(Moon, Mercury, Jupiter) 36 
(Mars, Jupiter, Saturn) 


This is a day on which you will feel like doing noble deeds 
such as charity or undertaking some new literary work. The whole 
of the morning time would be spent in writing. For other persons 
also this is an auspicious day. You might receive news about a 
birth in the family. The morning time is auspicious You may 
spend your time profitably in solving some crossword puzzle or in 
the selection of horses for the evening races. You will be visited 
by merry and humorous friends and spend your time in their 
company Office hours are quite normal with nothing to record. 
For speculators, on the stock exchange this is an extremely lucky 
day. Under the control of the planet Jupiter, the market is likely 
to rise. Go in for forward bull business. Do business in 2 or 3 
scripts, and hold on- You are sure to earn a good profit. Go in 
for only blue chips- Shipping shares, Rayons, Century and Standard 
shares are a good catch. Traders in oil seeds and oil will find this 
day very dull and uninteresting. Prices are likely to remain stagnant. 
Traders in luxury articles, ladies dresses, toys and cosmetics will 
find this day very auspicious. For race fans, the day is favourable. 
Play on hunch. Neglected horses are likely to win. You are likely 
to win the 3rd and 4th races. Select horses on whose forehead 
there is a white sign of crescent moon. Night time will make you 


religious minded. 


Your auspicious numbers are 3, 4 and 7. The whole of the 


day would prove to be a lucky day. Evening time is more lucky. 


3 | (Sun, Neptune, Mars) 37 
(Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn) 


_ + 


This is a day on which you are likely to feel lonely and pessi 
mistic. You will realise that all your activities will never bear fruit 
unless God wills that way. This is a day on which you should 
devote much of your time in religious practices and prayers. The 
morning time is gloomy for you even though “ All is well with 
the world. ” There is a possibility of some misunderstanding bet 
ween you and your wife. You are likely to suffer from gastric 
troubles and constipation. You will search in vain, to find some 
missing document or an article. You are likely to reach office late- 
You will have to attend to some long pending and tedious work. 
You will have some hot words with your boss or your 
subordinate staff. For speculators on the stock exchange this is 
a black day. Lo not enter into any new contracts. You will 
feel like unloading your holdings as prices have remained 
stagnant fora long time. Do not make haste. Some disturbing 
news in the market is likely to cause panic. Traders in grain, 
jaggery, manures, and spare parts, however, will find this day a 
lucky one. The prices of these articles will rise over a long 
period. Do some business to-day. For Race fans the day is 
not favourable. All their judgments are likely to go wrong and 
they are likely to loose heavily. It would be better to stay away 
from the race course today. Evening and night time will 


cause you great uneasiness. Sleep will be disturbed. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 0, 4, and 7. 
Number 7 is important. Your lucky hours of the day are from 6 


to 9a. monly. 


38 


(Sun, Neptune, Venus) 
(Saturn, Saturn, Jupiter) 
+ 


To-day Venus is aspected with Sun and Neptune. This is an 
auspicious day for older persons in your family. They will feel 
distinct improvement in their health if they are already ill. Older 
persons are likely to visit you in the morning. This is an auspicious 
day for taking out an insurance policy or to make long term invest 
ments. Morning time is sunny and cheerful. You will feel quite 
happy and cheerful. You will receive letters of appreciation from 
the public praising your literary work if you arc a writer. You 
will enjoy your meals and go to office in an optimistic frame of 
mind. Office work will be light and to your liking. The day is 
fairly good for stock exchange operators. Rayon shares are likely 
to be in the lime light and you may do some bull business in these 
shares. The day is auspicious for unloading your previous contracts 
with good profit. Do not do anything on hunch. This will be a 
normal day for traders in oil and oil-seeds. Dealers in articles of 
luxury and other valuable articles will find this day very lucky. 
They will have record sales. Pawn brokers and money lenders 
also will have a good time. Some overdue loans would be recovered, 
for race-goers this is a lucky day. Chances are that fortune will 
smile on them in the last 2 or 3 races. Stake on older horses. The 
evening time would be spent in a romantic way and you will have 


peaceful sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers are 1,3 and 9. No. 9 is significant. 


Auspicious hours for the day are from 8 to 10 a.m. and 4 to 7 


3 9 (Sun, Neptune, Mercury) 39 
(Saturn, Jupiter, Mars) 


In general this is an auspicious day for you. Today you are 
likely to find yourself financially stronger. Morning time will be 
spent in some serious work. Writers should make it a point to 
write as much as possible. This a fine day for religious minded 
persons. They will think about God more than mundane things, 
of life. They should devote their morning in prayer and medita 
tion. For others also the morning is fine and cheerful. You are 
likely to receive long expected letters. You will feel happy in the 
company of older persons. Some one in your family is likely to 
receive good news regarding service or promotion. Office work 
will be more responsible than usual. For stock exchange operators, 
the day appears to be favourable for unloading long standing 
contracts. It is advisable to get out of the market for some days. 
Any new business done will he profitable but you will have to 
wait for a longer time. The day is favourable for dealers in oil, 
and oil seeds. Go Short in cotton seeds and wait for prices to 
decline. Traders in articles of long durability will have a busy 
time. The day is quite good for race fans also. Your judgments 
will come true. Do not play on hunch. Older horses are likely to 
win. Your luck is more favourable in the last 2 or 3 races. In the 
evening you will make heavy purchases of household articles. 
Night time will be happier and you will have sound sleep. 

Your auspicious numbers for the day are 1,4 and 7. No. 7 


is significant. Practically whole of the day is lucky. 


(Sun, Neptune, Moon) 40 
(Jupiter, Mars, Venus) 


The influence of three mighty planets Sun, Neptune and Moon 
will prove to be a very luckily day for you. Such lucky days 
are very rare during the whole year. The day is excellent for 
traveling. Plan a long trip to-day. Some financial wind-fall will 
make you feel monetarily comfortable and happy. Whatever you 
undertake to-day will prove a success. Morning time is happy 
and cheerful. You will throw away imaginary worries of the past 
and will feel optimistic. There is a possibility of some good news 
regarding your promotion or transfer. May be you might receive 
orders of transfer to a far off place. Don’t refuse. In the office 
you will have to deal with old correspondence and pending work. 
Your boss will appreciate your work and will be cordial with 
you. This is a very lucky day for Bull operators on the stock 
exchange. Prices of Steamship and Rayon Company shares will 
move up swiftly and you should enter the market as soon as it 
opens. Do not do jobbing business bat hold on your contracts for 
prices to rise still further. Dealers in superfine cloth, silk and 
other luxuries will have busy day. This is an auspicious day for 
new orders. For Race-fans the day is lucky and you are advised to 
play on hunch. White horses and horses on whose forehead 
there is a crescent moon are likely to win. Evening time is 
esuitable for reading light books. You will have a romantic 


frame of mind and will sleep well. 


Your auspicious number are 4, 7 and 8. Number 4 is 


significant. Lucky period for the day is from 2 to 7 p. m. 


4 ] (Sun, Venus, Sun) 41 


(Mars, Venus, Mercury) 


This is generally a very good day for you in so far as your 
family is concerned. You wake up very cheerfully with some 
ambitious plan in your mind. There is possibility of hearing some 
good news from some of your relative such as a birth of a son, 
marriage settlement or promotion. You should attend to some 
pending correspondence to day. You are likely to be visited by 
older persons in whose company you will pass good time. You 
will receive some good letters also. You have a good meal and 
will attend office with a cheerful mind. You will be given some 
important work to-day to do, which will be highly appreciated 
by your boss. For stock exchange operators, this is a good day 
generally though the flutter in prices will not be very tempting. 
Rayons, Century, Tata Oil and Sugar shares are likely to go up 
and you should do some jobbing in these scripts. If you have a 
bull position already do not unload but wait for a further rise. 
Traders in luxury articles, superfine cloth and ready-made 
garments will have a busy day. Oil and oil-seeds merchants will 
have to mark time to-day with nothing doing. This is a sunny day 
for Race-fans. Mixed coloured horses are likely to win. You 
should stake in races No. 2, 4, 6 etc. all even numbers. You are 
likely to score a great hit in at least one race. Night time is 
suitable to read serious book. You will not know when you have 


gone to sleep. 


The auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 2, 6. Number 6 
is significant. The lucky periods are morming time and from 


2 to 6p. m. 


(Sun, Venus, Mercury) 42 


(Venus, Mercury, Sun) 


This is one of the luckiest day for you during the year. You 
will experience some good luck in your service, family and finance. 
Morning time is extremely cheerful and happy. This is a day to 
spend your morning hours in the company of your wife and 
children. Your elder son or daughter will have some good luck to 
day. You are likely to be invited by your neighbour for a cup of tea. 
If he makes any proposal, give a serious thought to it. This is a 
good day for purchases. You are likely to attend office earlier 
than usual. Work will not be heavy and you will mostly idle away 
your time. The boss is luckily to be on leave. You will feel 
yourself important in the office. For stock exchange operators 
this is a day to make money within a short time. As prices are 
likely to go down you may enter into some bear contracts of a 
jobbing nature. Cover your sales with a small margin of 
profits and get out of your days commitments. Prices of blue 
chips are likely to go down. Traders in luxury articles, money 
lenders and pawn brokers will have a good day. They should 
make arrangements with banks for credit. On the race course you 
will have a jolly time. Young colts are likely to win. Play on 
hunch. Avoid 6th race. White horses would prove to be favorites 
The evening time is pleasant and your pockets will be comfortably 
full. You will feel exhausted and weak at night and will have a 


disturbed sleep. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 4, 5, and 8. 


Number 8 is significant. Your lucky hours are from 4 to 7 p. m. 


43 (Sun, Venus, Venus) 43 


(Mercury, Moon, Moon) 


+. 


This is a very lucky day for you from family point of view. 
All is well with you to-day, both at home and in business. You 
will feel a sort of repentance for some hot words or ill-treatment 
that you might have given to your wife on the previous day 
Strained relations would be patched up. Your whole day is likely 
to be spent in a romantic mood of mind. If you have a love affair 
the day is extremely auspicious for proposal of marriage. It is, 
likely that marriage of your daughter is settled to-day or you come 
across a good bride-groom. Settlement of marriages to-day would 
prove extremely lucky and auspicious. In the office you will come 
in contact with lady clerks. Office work would be a jolly affair 
with nothing to do in particular. You will be called upon to draft 
a report or will have to handle correspondence. For stock ex 
change operators the day is a bit shy. Prices will move up and down 
within a very small range. It would be better to give a holiday 
for fresh business. Hold on to your previous bull contracts for 
prices to rise. Printing press owners, photographers, dealers in 
cosmetics and ladies garments will have a very busy day. Place 
new orders for such articles. For race-goers, the fate is unpredic 
table. However the scales are likely to be turned in your favour. 
Stake on young colts. Try your luck in the 6th race . Evening 


will be romantic and you will have nice sleep. 


The auspicious numbers for tbedhy are 2, 6 and 9, Number 
6 is important. The lucky periods are 8 to 10 am. aild 4. to, 
8 p.m. 


44 (Sun, Venus, Mars) 44 


(Moon, Moon, Sun) 


From early morning you will feel sickly and ill at ease. You 
will suffer from head-ache and gastric troubles. The morning hours 
are not very happy to-day You will feel anxious about your 
son's progress in studies. You will feel much depressed and 
despondent. Go out for purchase or pay visit to your close 
friend to relieve yourself from worries. You will have to face an 
angry neighbour or receive some letters asking for money. You 
will have no appetite and will attend office all blue and morose. 
Office work also is likely to be a bit heavy for your frame of mind. 
Keep your temper and observe silence. For stock exchange specula 
tors the day is not a lucky one at all and you are likely to misjudge 
the trend of the market. Some political bolt from the blue will 
shatter the morale of the market and you are likely to unload 
your bull holdings at a great loss- It would be advisable not to 
feel panicky but have patience. Do not do any fresh business 
to-day. For traders in oil and oil-seeds also, this is a bad day. 
Grain merchants, Estate brokers, Agriculturists and Military and 
police service men will find the day more lucky and auspicious. 
For race-fans there is a possibility that you will win and lose 
equally. Try first four races only. Brown horses are likely to win. 
Go light to day and forget about it if you lose. At night you will 
feel very ill end will not sleep well. 

Your auspicious numbers for the day are 2, 4 and 5. Num 


ber 4 is significant. No particular lucky periods can be predicted 


for to-day. 


45 (Sun, Sun, Jupiter) 45 


(Moon, Sun, Mercury) 


The day is exceptionally lucky and auspicious for you. You 
will enjoy a happy morning probably in the company of social 
and political workers. For authors this is a very auspicious day 
and any writing done to-day will have great philosophical value. 
If you are a good orator, you will get an invitation to deliver a 
lecture in the evening or to preside over some meeting. This is a 
day on which your fame in any field is sure to increase and you 
will feel important. The whole morning and noo n time is quite 
bright. If you were ill previously you will feel much better from 
to-day. In the office you will have to do some very important 
and confidential type of work. This is a day on which you are 
likely to hear some good news regarding your promotion or 
grade. For stock exchange operators also this is a bright day. 
Blue chips are likely to go up and you should do some bull 
business and wait till settlement. Do not do jobbing and refrain 
from trading on hunch. Your ideas about the market trend are 
sure to prove correct. The day is very lucky for book-sellers 
professors and teachers, social workers and politicians. Stationery 
dealers will have a busy day. For traders in oil and oil seeds the 
day is quite normal and uneventful. For Race-fans this should 
prove a lucky day. Try white horses. Try horse No. 7 and the 
7th race. By evening you will feel more religious minded and 
would have good sleep. 

Your auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 5 and 7. 


Number 7 is significant. You will find the whole of the day* 


extremely lucky, 


(Mercury, Sun, Saturn) 46 
(Sun, Mercury, Sun) 


Financially the day appears to be lucky. Recovery of long 
standing debts is possible. You are likely to feel comfortable 
financially. Morning time is pretty fine and auspicious. You will 
feel very much exhilarated and energetic. The day is good for 
shopping. Do buy household articles such as wheat, oil, jaggery 
etc. in bulk, you will realise that you have made a bargain. You 
will spend much of your time in some sort of hobby, you will 
have good appetite and good food and would attend office or 
place of business in a cheerful and optimistic frame of mind. You 
will have to do some important work and solve some naughty 
problems. The boss is likely to be very pleased with you and you 
will feel yourself important. Your colleagues are likely to enjoy 
your position. For stock exchange operators this is a day of 
dwindling fortunes. Do not do jobbing to day as the trend of 
prices would prove deceptive. It is better to hold on to your 
previous bull position. If at all you want to do some business you 
may try Sugar shares. Traders in oil, oil-seeds and oil cakes will 
find the day extremely lucky if they have bull position in the 
market. Prices will tend to rise without any apparent cause. You 
should unload at least half of your stock to be covered later on. 
Race-goers are not likely to fare will to day. All their judgments 
and speculations will go wrong. Their only chance is in race 
number 3, 6 and 7_ The night time will cause you some worry 
and you will have bad sleep. 

your auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 6 7. No 7 is 


significant. All day excepting night time is quite good. 


47 (Mercury, Sun, Saturn) 47 
(Mercury, Sun, Moon) 


This is generally a good day for you in so far as your financial 
and family aspect is concerned. The morning time is quite 
cheerful and you will feel optimistic. You will come in contact 
with intelligent persons. This is the day on which you will feel 
proud about your children. This is a good day for purchasing 
costly articles. If you own a vehicle, it is likely to go out of order. 
As day advances yon come under the control of the planet Sun. 
You will attend your office with a cheerful frame of mind. Work, 
will be to your liking and everybody is likely to be pleased with 
you. You will handle successfully some important work entrusted 
to you. For stock exchange operators, the day is one of mixed 
fortunes. The general sentiment would be bright and you will be 
tempted to enter into bull contracts. However your gains to day 
appear to be meager. It is advisable not to do much business to 
day. Oil and Soap Company shares are likely to be in the lime 
light. This is an extremely lucky day for oil and oil-seeds mer. 
chants. Any new business done to day will give them handsome 
reward. This is a day to enter into big business. For persons 
dealing in stationery books and home library clubs, the day is 
auspicious. For race-goers this is a day of mixed fortune. Do 
not stake on hunch. Pick up black horses. Horse number 7 and 
race number 7 is auspicious. Night time is not cheerful and you 
will have disturbed sleep. 

Your auspicious numbers for the day are o, 4 and 7. Num 


ber 7 is significant. The lucky hours of the day are from 2 to 6 


p.m. 


(Mercury, Sun, Jupiter) 48 
(Sun, Moon, Sun) 


This is a happy day for you as all the three controlling 
planets are very auspicious. The morning time is suitable for 
doing noble deeds or for doing serious writing. Many noble and 
inspiring ideas will come to your mind. The morning time will 
prove very lucky from financial point of view. This is an auspicious 
day for taking out an insurance policy or to invest in long dated 
securities. You will visit your close friend and have a good time 
with him. His advice regarding your financial adjustments would 
prove valuable. You will attend office with an optimistic frame of 
mind. Office work is quite normal and you will have aneasy time. 
For stock exchange operators the day is extremely favourable and 
they should transact bigger business. The market is likely to shoot 
up at the end of the session and it is advisable to buy at the 
beginning. Steamship, Rayon and Century shares are a good catch, 
for the day. This is a lucky day for traders in costly articles. 
Traders dealing in oil-seeds, oil, cotton and silver will find the 
day quite normal without any flutter in prices. However it is better 
to unload half of your cotton business and cover it with good 
profit later on. Race-fans will find the day quite cheer ful. Stake on 
hunch. White and older horses are likely to be inthe lime light. 
Horse number 3 and race number 3 should prove lucky. Night is 


quite cheerful and you get good sleep. 


The auspicious numbers for the day are 1,3 and 4. Number 3 


is significant. The whole of the day is quite lucky. 


49 (Mercury, Moon, Mars) 49 
(Moon, Sun, Mercury) 


The day is one of mixed fortunes. If you are interested in the 
purchase of a plot or agricultural land, the day is very auspicious. 
You will be out of mood in the morning and will suffer from 
gastric troubles and headache. Some unusual incident in the 
family will upset you. Keep your temper and take some rest. You 
will also feel some anxiety about your financial position. Do not 
borrow to-day as you are likely to feel yourself humiliated and 
insulted. It is better to visit a friend and spend some time in his 
company. You are likely to miss your train or bus and will reach 
office late. Work will be heavy and tedious. Maintain tranquility of 
mind in the office. For stock exchange operators the day is 
fatal. All your judgments will go wrong and you are likely to 
suffer great losses. Price pattern which you feel favourable will 
completely change by the end of the session and you are advised to 
come out with only a scratch. However this is a lucky day for 
traders in agricultural produce and for estate brokers. Persons 
dealing in heavy machinery, agricultural implements and articles of 
luxury are likely to have a busy day. For Race-fans the day 
appears to be most unlucky. Do not stake on hunch. [fat all 
you want to stake your money, take a tip from a short reddish 


and ugly person. Stake only a very small amount to day. 


Your auspicious numbers to-day are 1, 4 and 8. Number 8 
is significant. Excepting 2 to 4 p. m. the whole day is not favour 


able to do any thing. 


(Mercury, Moon, Venus) 50 
(Sun, Mercury, Venus) 


If you have a secret dream or hope, the day is most favourable for 
its achievement. Most people who are in that line and you will be 
profited. The day is fine and you wake up quite fresh and bubbling 
with energy. Financial luck is in the offing. Discuss financial matters 
with your wife and take her advice. This is a good day for shopping. 
You will be required to write many private letters and will receive 
a heavy mail also. Arrange your room and make it tidy. Destroy old 
correspondence and throw away rubbish articles. You will have a 
good appetite and enjoy your meals. You will goto office or place 
of business in an optimistic frame of mind. For stock exchange 
fraternity the day is extremely lucky. The day is auspicious for 
jobbing. Enter in bull contracts. Shipping, Rayon and some other Blue 
chips will be in the lime light. If you have previous bull position unload 
and get away with a decent profit. Do not do business on hunch. For Race- 
course-fans, the day should prove a lucky one- It is most likely that you 
will earn good dividends to day. Stake on white horses, or horses on whose 
forehead there is a crescent moon. Take your tips from ladies of your 
acquaintances. Avoid 6th and 7th race. Night is peaceful. The day is 
extremely lucky for stock brokers, money lenders, and writers. Traders in 
oil and oil-seeds will experience a sagging tendency in prices and they 
should go in for some bear jobbing in oil-seeds. 

The auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 5 and 8. Number 


5 is significant. Practically the whole of the day is auspicious. 


(Mercury, Moon, Mercury) 5 1 
(Mercury, Venus, Mars) 


This should prove to be a day of great financial gains for you. 
You will feel happy over recovery of some long standing 
dues. The morning is fine and cheerful and you are in a very jolly 
mood. The day is suitable for purchase of luxury articles. Young 
persons are likely to pay you a visit and you will feel happy 
and cheerful in their company. You are likely to write more 
letters to-day and receive a heavy mail. There is a possibility 
of some commercial man tempting you to buy an article from 
him. Do not be deceived. You enjoy your meals and go to 
your office or place of business ‘n an optimistic frame of 
mind. For stock exchange operators, this is an extremely lucky 
day as their profits are likely to be beyond their expectations. 
This is a day for big business.Go long in Rayons, Shippings 
and Century. By the end of the Session you will find a steep 
rise in th; price of the above share.-. Sell off your holdings of 
the day. This is an auspicious day for persons dealing in luxury 
articles, pawn brokers, moneylenders and 
Goldsmiths. The prices of oil and oil-seeds are likely to 
remain steady. Do not do anything to-day but hold on to your 
positions. 
For race-goers also this should prove to be a lucky day. Young colts 
and white horses arc likely to win. Take your chances in the first 
and third race. Stake your money on hunch. 
The auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 4 and 7. Number 


4 is significant. Practically the whole of the day is lucky for you 


(Mercury, Moon, Moon) 52 
(Venus, Mars, Jupiter) 


This is a day on which you will experience disappointment 
on all fronts. You wake up with a confused mind. You entertain 
dreamy ideas for a moment and think the reverse the next mom 
ent. You are likely to misplace an important article or a docu 
ment and will spend a lot of time searching it. Unwelcome guests 
or friends are likely to upset your temperament. It is better to 
observe silence to-day. Your eyes will give you some trouble and 
in consequence you will have a bad headache. In the office your 
leave application is likely to be rejected and your plans based on 
leave are likely to be frustrated. For stock exchange operators, 
this is a very dangerous day. Initial price trend is likely to be 
severely affected by adverse political news. Whatever the position 
of the market, you are advised not to enter in any fresh contracts 
or to sell off your previous holdings out of panic. It is advisable 
for Race-goers not to indulge in extravagant bettings. All their 
calculations and hunches are likely to land them in a great loss. 
It is better to give a holiday to the race course. However this is 
a very lucky day for persons dealing in articles of luxury, Ice-cream 
vendors, Gold and Jewelery merchants and flower and _ fruit 
vendors. They should go in for fresh purchases. The day is also 


financially lucky for writers. 


The auspicious numbers for the day are 1,7 and 9. Number | 
is significant- The lucky period of the day is from 11 a m- to 


2 pm- 


( Mercury, Mars, Sun) 53 
(Mars, Jupiter, Saturn) 


You will spend the morning time pondering over some 
financial schemes. Your pockets are likely to remain empty to-day 
and you will be upset- Physically you will feel ill at ease. There 
is a likelihood of some costly article being broken. Your mind 
will wander in the past and you will feel restless over memories 
about your good old days. You will feel that you are pretty 
advanced in age- Try to be cheerful and pay a visit to some of your 
good friends. There is also a likelihood of some quarrel in the 
family over some petty affair. You will attend office in a depressed 
condition of mind. For stock exchange operators the day will 
prove a dangerous one. The influence of Mars on Mercury will 
surely be ruinous for you. It is better to hold on to your previous 
commitments. Do not do any business to-day. Jobbing is out of 
consideration. For race-fans also the day 11 not a favourable one. 
All your calculations and judgments will go completely wrong. 

You will be tempted to go in for heavy stakes. If at all you desire 
to play, stake on brown horses and young colts. Try your luck in 

race number 2, 3 and 7. The day is quite normal to other traders 
and merchants. This is a day to purchase jaggery, for a decent 
profit in the future. This is also a good day for traders dealing in 
corn and other agricultural produce. 

The auspicious numbers for the day are 2, 3 and 7. The 


number 3 is significant. The lucky periods of the day are from 7 to 
10 a.m. and 6 to 10 p.m. 


(Mercury, Mars, Mercury) 54 
(Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn) 


+ 


1 he day is most unfortunate so far as money matter is 
concerned. You wake up with a bad headache and _biliousness. 
You will be completely out of your mood. Your financial position 
will not be smooth to day. May be you will feel humiliated by 
your creditor, grocer or landlord for not meeting their bills. 
Unwelcome friends will make you uneasy all the more- Loss of 
money or a valuable article is indicated. Refrain from doing any 
rash act- Do not loose your temper- It is better to remain alone 
at home- You will not ha e a good appetite and will attend office 
with a morose and pessimistic frame of mind- For stock exchange 
operators this is a doom day- Market is likely to go heavily 
against your previous commitments and you will feel completely 
shaken. Do not square up a loss but hold on for market to go in 
your favour. You should not do anything to day in the market. 
Give a complete holiday- For traders in grains and other agricul 
tural produce this is a lucky day- Make fresh contracts- Dealers 
in machinery and iron goods will have a busy time. Money 
lenders will have to write off a bad debt to day. Fruit and flower 
merchants will make a good profit- For race-fans, this is not a 
lucky day. They are most likely to loose heavily- All their hunch 
and calculations will go wrong- They might however try race No. 
3 and stake on a brown horse. 

The auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 7 and 9 No. 9 is, 

significant. Lucky period for the day is from S to 10 a- m- and 


7 to 9- p- m- 


( Venus, Mars, Venus ) 55 
(Saturn, Saturn, Jupiter) 


+ 


To-day some family worries will overpower your soul and you 
will feel restless and completely run down. Might be your wife 
will suddenly take ill- There is a possibility of a quarrel in the house 
or with your neighbour- As the day indicates some accident to 
you be careful while traveling in a train or a bus- The day is not 
favourable for travel. Your refusal of a financial request from a 
close friend of yours is likely to create great misunderstanding in 
his mind. If you are suffering from blood pressure, it will cause 
you great trouble to-day. Try to remain calm and composed. You 
will attend office normally. Office work will be very heavy and 
you will feel tired. For stock exchange operators this is a day either 
for a big loss or a big profit. Rayon, and shares of mills produc 
ing superfine cloth are likely to come into lime light. Try your 
luck in jobbing. For your previous bull contract, the day is 
auspicious Hold on till settlement. This is a fine day for shop 
keepers dealing in cosmetics, ladies articles, jewelery and watches. 
Traders in oil and oil-seeds will have a very lucky time to-day. 
Huge profits are expected. They should cash their profit to-day. 
A rare lucky day for them indeed. Race-goers will find the day 
not so happy as they expect. Their gain and losses are equal and 
they will only enjoy the day over an empty pocket. Try race No. 


6 and stake on a black horse. 


The auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 5, and 6. Number 


6 is significant. There is no special lucky period to-day. 


(Venus, Mars, Mars,) 56 
(Saturn, Jupiter, Mars) 


The day is most unlucky for you from mom till night. You 
wake up with a feeling of drowsiness and headache. There is a 
great tension on your nerves due to some unpleasant incident of the 
previous day. You will have some petty quarrel with your family 
members or a neighbour. Your young child is likely to have a 
fall from a cot or a cradle. Your mental tension will increase by 
non-receipt of an expected letter. You are probably worrying about 
your to-day’s office duties which are out of your routine. Remain 
calm and tranquil. The best way is to read some religious book. 
You will attend office roost unwillingly. For stock exchange opera 
tors this is a doomsday. It would be better to be away from 
the market. Some political news or social disturbance is likely to 
have a bearish effect on the market and you are likely to get 
panicky about your bull position. Do not sell but hold on till the 
position improves. Do not do any fresh business to-day. This is 
a glorious day for persons serving in police and military depart 
ment, agriculturists, millhands and other persons doing manual 
labour. This category of persons is likely to hear some good news 
or become financially more sound. For race-goers the day is not 
at all favourable. It would be better to be away from the race 
course as the usual temptation will land you in great losses. ““ Money 
saved is money gained,” should be the motto. 

The auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 2 and 9. Number | is 


important. The lucky period is only from 2 p. m. to 6 p. m. 


(Venus, Herschel, Jupiter) 57 
( Saturn Jupiter, Jupiter,) 


+ 


This is a day on which many unexpected auspicious events are 
likely to happen. You will wake up with a cheerful frame of mind 
and find the world full of cheer and mirth. If this happens to be 
a holiday, a short journey is indicated. Your wife will receive 
letters from her father, sister or brother giving some good news. 
You will fell like having a good meal and will have a sweet dish. 
Do not change your clothes to-day. You will be more religious 
minded to day. Worship your family deity with devotion. You 
are likely to receive a good news from a person in engineering 
line. For stock exchange operators the trend of the market is likely 
to be greatly in your favour. Do some business on bull side and 
reap a good profit within a short period. Engineering, Iron and 
Steel shares are a good catch for to-day. Do not trade in Textile 
and Chemical Shares. This is a good day for traders in machinery, 
fine articles and cosmetics. There is nothing worth mentioning 
about merchants dealing in grains, gold, silver and cloth. How 
ever the influence of the above 3 planets is auspicious. For race- 
fans this should prove a lucky day. Discard ail scientific methods 
and play on hunch. Brown mares will be a good selection. Try 
also horse No. 8 with advantage. The auspicious numbers for 
the day are 3, 4 and 8. No. 8 is important. Practically the whole 
of the day is lucky for you. 


(Venus, Herschel, Saturn) 58 
(Mars, Venus, Mercury) 


From the point of view of family happiness and money 
matters, the day is an auspicious one. You will have a changed 
outlook towards your family members. The day will bring you 
some unexpected luck. You will wake up with a cheerful frame 
of mind and will not bother much about your worries, and anxi 
eties. Deposit some amount in the bank without fail. Do not lend 
money to anybody. The postman will bring you some cheerful 
news. In your happy mood you are likely to miss sense of time and 
are likely to miss your train or will attend office late. For stock 
exchange fans this is a fairly good day for jobbing. Do not do 
any investment business to-day. Shares like Telco, Tata Ordinary, 
Indian Iron are a good catch for jobbing. You may also try cen 
tury and National Rayon. The market is likely to move up and 
you should assume a bull position. For dealers in oil seeds and 
oil this is an extremely lucky day. You will find that the trend 
of the market is favourable to you unexpectedly. Do not dose 
your outstanding business but hold on. For other merchants the 
day is quite normal. For Race-goers, this is a day for you to 
make good all your previous losses. Try your luck on mares. 
Reject your choice and play on hunch. Horses No. 5, 6 and 8 are 
lucky for you. 

Auspicious numbers for the day are 2, 4 and 6. No. 6 is 


significant. The lucky period is from 8 to 10 a.m. and 4 to 8p.m. 


‘Venus, Herschel, Saturn) 59 


(Venus, Mercury, Sun,) 


This is not a happy day as it is aspected by Saturn 
through out. You wake up with a sense of some unbearable 
responsibility and fear. The morning time is gloomy and you 
will feel restless. Some one in your family is likely to be unwell 
and as such normal family life will be disturbed. Some 
unpleasant incidence will disturb you. it is better to go out for 
a short stroll to ease your mind. You will not feel like doing 
anything to-day and think of sending a sick note to your office. 
You will have very ordinary meals and will attend place of 
business reluctantly. For stock exchange operators the day is a 
doomsday. Price trend is unpredictable. Keep your previous 
contracts in tact and do not do any fresh business to day. Do 
not transact any business on hunch. It is better not to attend stock 
exchange to-day. For dealers in oil, oilseeds, this is a lucky day. Price 
trend will be in your favor appreciably. Do not book profits but hold 
on. Study the price trend and do some business to-day. It will bring you 
good dividends shortly. For race-fans this is not a favourable day. All 
your calculations and hunch is likely to go wrong. This is a day on 
which }cu are likely to lose heavily. Your auspicious numbers for the 
day are 3, 4, 7. No. 7 is significant. Lucky period for the day is from | 
to 3 p.m. 


(Venus, Herschel, Jupiter) 60 
(Mercury, Sun, Moon,) 


This is a good day for writers particularly for novelists. 
Their inspiration would be at its zenith and work produced to 
day would be of a very high caliber. For others the morning 
time is fairly good. You will be inclined to appreciate noble 
qualities of your wife. Be careful while traveling as it is possible for 
you to be involved in an accident. Office work will be quite 
normal and academic. You are likely to receive a letter from a 
person who is a stranger to you. You should not ignore it but 
give it your serious thought. To-day locomotive shares are likely 
to rise and if you have a bulb position in this script you should 
unload. There is no appreciable flutter in the market. Mechanics, 
part dealers and teachers are likely to be more happy. Actresses 
and dancers are likely to feel religious and they would do well to 
visit some temple. For race-goers the day is fatal. Do not throw 
away your money on horses. All your ideas about winners would 
go flat. It would be better for you to cancel your visit to the 
race course. It is possible for a horse to fall down due to faulty 
shoeing. However Mares are likely to win races to-day. Excepting 
this tip no other advice can be given to-day. Number 4, 5 and 8 
are auspicious numbers for you to-day. Number 5 is important. 
Buy at least a small quantity of Gold to-day. The auspicious 
period is from 6 p. m. to 10 p. m. Night time is pleasant. 


61 (Venus, Jupiter, Mars) 61 
(Sun, Moon, Sun) 


This is the proper day for worship of God for the recovery 
of health of your wife. From to-day she is likely to feel much better. 
For others the day is not so happy as it is controlled by Mars. 
Some sort of misunderstanding and hot words is in the offing. 
You are likely to suffer an injury by a fall of a heavy thing on 
your foot. There is no expected letter and this will cause you 
great disappointment. Meals are likely to be more hot than 
normal. You hurry to your office with blues. For office-goers 
the day is one of heavy work. You feel fatigued in the noon. 
The day is good for persons dealing in Rayon shares. May they 
be bulls or bears. The market has a two sided movement and 
jobbing is recommended. It would be better not to enter into 
new contracts to-day but to book profits on existing holdings. 
For race-fans the day is deceptive. Your earnings are likely to be 
wiped away at the close. Do not play more than 3 races to-day. 
Brown coloured horses are likely to be winners. There is nothing 
very enchanting about races to-day. The day is good for farmers 
and police personnel, Jewelers, and gold-smiths. Dealers in siik 
are likely to do good business to-day. Night time is suitable for 
good business. Your lucky numbers are 1, 2 and 7. Number 7 is 
important. There is no special lucky period for you worth 


mentioning, but you should be lucky in the evening. 


(Venus, Saturn, Mercury) 62 
(Mercury, Sun, Herschel) 


You wake up with memories of your past life or with 
remembrance of a deceased relative. You feel very sad and 
morose and it would be better for you to go for a stroll. You 
are likely to meet good friends at home or on the road. Your 
vehicle if any is likely to go out of order. Being short of money 
you will be required to draw on the account of your wife There 
are no letters to-day. The day is good for cleaning your room 
and sorting your correspondence. You will not have much 
appetite. In the office you will hear strange news about a 
colleague of yours. For stock operators the day is fairly good 
and thrilling. Deal in Locomotive shares or shares of Engineering 
Companies. You will hear news about bonus issue of shares of 
a company which you are holding. However the market trend 
being very erratic, it is better to go cautiously. The day is very 
good for oil Mill, and truck owners. Cloth shop owners also 
should do fairly good business to-day. The day is not favourable 
for police personnel and army men. They should be very vigilant 
in doing their duties. For race-goers the day is very lucky. Do 
not play on the advice of others, but use your own judgment. 
Selecting horses by drawing lots would bring good dividends to 
some persons. Your lucky numbers are 3, 5, 6. No. 3 is more 
important. If to-day is Friday the whole day is auspicious and if 
it is Saturday, it is unlucky. 


( Venus, Neptune, Mercury) 63 
(Mercury, Mars, Herschel) 


The day is very auspicious for old people in so far as 
their outlook on life is concerned. They are likely to feel more 
energetic and alert to-day. They are likely to meet friends of 
their ownclan and in their company will pass the time in 
remembrance of bygone days. For others the day is one of 
delay for work and fulfillment of ordinary desires. Old persons 
are likely to cheer them out of their blues. Some persons will 
have to worry about clothes which they have not received from 
the laundry. Food will be very ordinary and unappetizing. They 
will have to keep late hours to. day at the office. For 
persons operating on stock exchange, the day is not very 
comfortable. You will make a mistake of unloading shares 
which are falling to-day but are likely to improve ina day or 
two. Go in shipping shares. The day is good for land and 
building owners and there is likely to be a profitable deal in 
some plots or building. Old business men are likely to fall ill with 
some blood trouble. For others, the day is normal, For race fans, the 
day would be lucky for old people. Follow their advice and go home 
with pockets full of money. To-day it is difficult to predict whether 
male or female horses will win. Your lucky numbers are 3, 5, 9. No. 
9 is important. 7 p. m. to 9 p. in. is a dangerous period. You will 


sleep well. 


64 (Moon, Jupiter, Mars) 64 
(Mars, Saturn, Mercury) 


The day has nothing special to record. You wake up 
rather late and feel like doing nothing. You will have some 
flattering remarks to make to your wife who would be pleased 
with such akind behaviour after along period. You will read 
some interesting news in the newspaper. Your time-table to day 
will be completely upset by some unwanted intruders. You 
will write some letters very hurriedly. For office goers the day 
would prove to be one of heavy work in the office which will 
keep them away from home till night. You will have a sweet 
dish at dinner and feel drowsy while going to office. For 
stock exchange fans, the day should prove a lucky day for 
purchasing oil mill shares. The market will be flooded with 
wild gossip and prices of stocks will swing both ways. This is a 
good day for jobbing. Do not sell your stock to-day but wait 
for a better price. Financial difficulty is indicated. The day is 
good for oil and oil seeds merchants. This is a proper day for 
bull operation in these commodities. The day is also some what 
lucky for corn dealers and dealers in jewelery. If to-day is 
Saturday, the day will be all the more lucky. For Race goers 
the day is one of gain and loss. You will gain in races first but 
loose afterwards. Young colts should fare well to-day. Race 
No. 2 and 4 will surely bring you some luck- Your lucky 
numbers for the day are 1,2 and 4 out of which Nos. | and 
2 are important. Night time is lucky. You will not sleep well 


to day due to exhaustion. 


(Moon, Saturn, Mars) 65 
( Mars, Mercury, Moon) 


Excepting a bit of financial ease, the day foretells some 
sad and fearful incidents in your routine. You will wake up 
with asickly feeling. For want of good motion you will feel 
bilious inthe morning. There will be some worry on account of 
your children. You will idle away your morning time doing 
practically nothing. It is likely that you will have some hot 
words in your family or with your neighbour. It is better to go 
marketing in the morning. You will feel like taking leave but 
work in the office will prevent you doing this. You will not 
enjoy meals to-day and go to office reluctantly. For stock 
exchange operators the day is lucky in so far as prices are going 
to fall heavily enabling you tocover your sales at a good profit. 
Go in for Engineering shares. It would be better for you to 
buy when the prices are prettydown. You will get this chance 
to-day. You will feel elated onstock exchange to-day. The 
day is most ordinary for other merchants. Any how estate 
brokers, farmers and gamblers willhave a happy time. 
Goldsmiths should be aware of theft in theirshops or some sort 
of dishonest act on the part of their servants. For race-fans the 
day does not augur well. You will be temptedto play on 
hunch and loose your precious money. In spite of this 
warning you will find yourself a bit lucky in the last 2 races. 
Your lucky numbers for the day are 1, 8 and 9, No. lis 
more auspicious. Lucky period to-day is from 6 to 11 in the 


evening. You will sleep well. 


(Moon, Venus, Mars) 66 
(Mars, Neptune, Jupiter) 


Excepting a bit of uneasiness in mind the day is quite 
normal for you. You will be busy with some street hawker 
seeing some samples. You should purchase something from him. 
If you have a daughter she will be cross with you for your not 
granting her request for money. The temper of your wife also 
will upset you unnecessarily. You will hear good music on the 
radio. Youare likely to receive a letter from some person 
whom you have forgotten for a long time. Your mind will be 
filled up with memories of association with him a long time 
back. You will attend office in a gloomy and morose mood. For 
stock exchange opera tors, the day is not very favourable. Your 
calculations and judge ments will completely fail. You will feel 
like making good the loss in one script by going in another 
one. But you are likely to loose heavily. It is better to abstain 
from going on the race course to-day. The day is quite 
satisfactory for other business men. Estate brokers, farmers and 
police personnel should find this day particularly happy and 
prosperous. Older persons in business will have particularly a 
happy time. For Race-goers the day is also quite uneventful. 
There will not be much money in the game. Thanks if you 
only come home without empty pockets. It is better to cancel 
race course to-day altogether. Your lucky numbers for the day 
are 1, 2 and 6. No. | is more important. Your lucky period of 
the day is night time only. You will go to bed with some sort 


of uneasiness on the mind. 


67 


(Moon, Herschel, Mercury) 
(Jupiter, Venus, Herschel) 


To-day is the luckiest day of your life. You should expect 
some monetary gains to-day either by way of increment or by 
sheer luck. The day opens for you with all cheerfulness and 
tranquility of mind. Family life in the morning is_ enchanting. 
Probably you will please your children by fixing a cinema 
appointment for the evening. Use only white clothes to-day. You 
are likely to receive a long delayed reply from a relation of yours. 
Reply immediately in your own interest. You will get tasty meal 
to-day and go to your office with a cheerful frame of mind. For 
Stock exchange operators, the day should prove one of sheer 
windfall. Any security you fancy will have a golden touch. To-day 
is a day of doing big business. Do bull operations as possible. The 
value of shares bought by you are sure to jump up in a very 
short time. For other traders the day is also marked out as 
a very prosperous one. Dealers in machinery, spare parts and 
jewelery will be very lucky to-day. Truck owners will get a long 
distance fare. Younger persons should be careful while walking in the 
street. For-race goers, the day is full of unexpected luck. Without study 
or calculation, fancy any horse and he will be first. Race No. | and 3 
should prove lucky. Do not stake on race No. 8. 

Your lucky numbers for the day are I, 3 and 6. No. 6 is more 
important. The whole of the day and night is auspicious. You will sleep 


soundly. . 


(Mars, Neptune, Mars) 68 
(Mars, Neptune, Mars) 


To-day you wake up with a bit of a philosophical frame of 
mind. You think that there is a Divine power which is guiding 
your destiny. In such a mood, you will tend to become more 
kindhearted and affectionate. Today is a day of worship and 
prayer for you. Do not go out in the morning as the planet 
Mars is likely to show his might to-day. Try to engage yourself in 
arranging your room or reading old correspondence. Take a hot 
bath which will cheer you up. You will go to office with a 
resigned frame of mind. Office work is likely to be a bit heavy 
but you will enjoy it all the same. You are likely to return home a 
bit late in the evening. The day is quite normal for stock 
exchange operators. Prices of blue chips are likely to remain 
stagnant. There is nothing particular to record to-day. Do not 
enter into new business to-day. For police personnel, agriculturists, 
estate brokers and traders in silver and cotton, the day is quite 
lucky. Do some big business to-day with a view to long term 
liquidation. The day is also favourable for grain merchants and 
grocers. This is an auspicious day for giving new orders. For race 
fans the day is quite unlucky. All their selections of horses would 
go completely wrong. Male horses are likely to win but you will 
not think that way. The evening time is more favourable from 
social point of view. Enjoy it in the company of friends. You will 


keep late hours over some interesting book. You will sleep well. 


Lucky numbers for the day are 1, 4, and 6. No. 6 is more 
significant and important. Lucky time of the day is from 7 a. m. 


to 9 p. m- and 8 to 10 p. m. 


(Sun, Mercury, Venus) 69 
(Moon, Mercury, Jtipiter) 


This should prove to be a very lucky day for you as all the 
six auspicious planets are controlling your life. You get up with 
a sense of extreme well being. You will be bubbling with 
enthusiasm. Many good things are likely to happen in_ the 
morning. If you go through your accounts, you will be surprised 
to see that you are in a comfortable position. You are likely to 
request your wife to have a good menu. Bring some sweetmeats 
from the market. Do not turn away beggars from your door but 
give them something. You will pass some happy time in the 
company of your dog or parrot if you have one. You will enjoy 
your meals and go to office cheerfully. To is is a very lucky day 
for stock exchange operators. The market is likely to go up on 
some heavy buying by big operators. Do some bull business 
and wait for prices to rise still further. Unload some of your 
previous bull contracts. Try Rayon and Shipping shares to-day. 


The day is auspicious for Jewelers, Silk merchants and for 


persons doing business in the underworld. They will havea 

bumper crop. The day is quite ordinary for transport business. 
If to-day is Thursday go in for Jaggery business. The day is also 
lucky for race course fraternity. They will have happy time* 
Their earnings will be fabulous to-day. Stake on white horses. 
Race No. 3, 4, 7 would pay good dividends. Race No. 7 would 


be important from the point of view of luck. 


Your lucky number for the day are 3, 4 and 7. Auspicious 
periods are 3 to 7 p. m. and 10 to 11 p. m. also. You will sleep 


well at night. 


(Moon, Saturn, Mars) 70 
(Moon, Sun, Mars) 


Though the influence of the primary planets is 
auspicious Saturn and Mars in secondary aspect are likely to 
make you abit unhappy to-day. You do not wish to get up 
from your bed. One of your children is likely to become ill 
causing you some anxiety. You suffer from constipation and 
feel very uneasy. You feel like taking casual leave but the 
pressure of work in the office does not allow you to do so. 
You do not enjoy your meals and will go to office down- 
hearted. Work in the office is likely to be heavy and taxing. 
Keep a cool mind to-day on the stock exchange You are likely 
to be deceived by the price pattern. Shipping and Rayon shares 
arc likely to jump. It is better not to do any big business to- 
day. Sell som: of your previous holdings to cover at subsequent 
fall later on. Hotel owners, will have a goed time to day. 
Persons doing underworld business will have their pockets full. 
Persons in love and newly married persons will be required to 
spend lavishly for their love. Police personnel and estate 
brokers will have a sweet surprise by way of money. For race 
goers, the day is very dangerous. Do not put your money on 
any horse to-day. However, race no. 2 will bring you some 


luck. After that go home and have a good evening elsewhere. 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 2, 4 and 5. No. 2 
is more auspicious. Lucky periods for the day are 7 to 9 a. m. 


and 8 to 9 p. m. 2 to 4 p. m. is a very bad time to do anything. 


o l (Mercury, Moon, Venus) vf 1 
(Sun, Mercury, Venus) 


This is a very lucky and happy day for you. You wake up 
from an erotic dream and desire to enjoy it again. Home life is 
quite sweet in the morning. You will feel free and fearless to-day. 
Some of your neighbours are likely to pay you a visit. You will 
pass a happy time in their company. This is an auspicious day 
for purchasing gold or fine clothes. You take a fancy for good 
and tasty meals and will go to market yourself to bring 
vegetables of your liking. You will enjoy your meals and go 
to your office least thinking that some sweet surprise is 
awaiting you. This isa day to do big business on the stock 
exchange. Enter intosome big contracts and unload at the close. 
Mining, Rayon and Shipping shares are a good catch. 
Generally this is a very favourable day for all traders and 
business men. Some heavy dues from customers are likely to be 
recovered to-day. For money lenders, Goldsmiths and pawn 
brokers, the day is extremely lucky. For shop-keepers the day 
is auspicious for arranging their products and stock taking. For 
race goers also the day is extreme ly lucky. They should play on 
white horses. Mares will smile on them. Play even races. 
Horse No. | and 3 in any race is likely to win. 

Your auspicious numbers are 1, 3, 4. No. | is more impor 
tant. Your lucky period is from 5 to 7 a.m. and the whole of the 


evening You will sleep well. 


(Venus, Mars, Jupiter) 72 
(Mars, Mars, Mercury) 
a 


You wake up in the morning after a sleepless night and 
feel morose and sad. You are expecting a heavy load of work in 
in the office or place of business. You might hear a sad and 
stunning news on the radio or from your neighbor. You do not 
desire to-day to do any active work. To laugh away your blues, 
you should take a small stroll at random. It is better to visit a 
hotel and pass some time over a cup of tea. The postman is 
likely to disappoint you. Do not write any important letters. You 
will have ordinary meals and go to office with a heavy heart and 
down in spirits. The day is good for stock exchange operators, 
but it is likely that gains in one business are likely to be wiped 
out by losses in other business. Go slow to-day and do not work 
on hunch. It is better not to do any fresh business to-day. Truck 
drivers and cyclists should be very careful in driving and riding. 
The day is good for transport business, estate brokers and farmers. 
They will do some new business profitably. Money lenders and 
pawn brokers will feel more charitable to-day. This is a gloomy 
day for race course fraternity. They should not dabble in races 
to-day. All their astrology, hunch and mathematics will go fut 
to-day. 

Your lucky numbers for the day are 2, 4 and 8. No. 2 is 
more important. The whole of the day is not favourable, to you. 


You will have a bad sleep at night. 


(Sun, Sun, Herschel) 73 
(Sun, Herschel, Statum) 


You wake up early in the morning with sweet memories, 
of your past life. As the day is controlled by Herschel await for 
an unexpected good thing to happen which will make you happy. 
Morning time is spent very happily in the company of children 
and radio. Your wife will also be in a jovial mood. All is sunny 
in the morning. You are likely to receive some fruits or sweet 
meats from your neighbour as a present. You will receive a 
heavy mail. Meals would be to your satisfaction and you attend 
your place of business in a cheerful frame of mind. The day is 
extremely lucky for bull operators. Prices of automobile and 
transport company shares will shoot up without any apparent 
cause. Take a solid chance in the above scripts. Do jobbing 
business to-day. The day is extremely lucky for state transport, 
and railway employees. They are likely to hear good news about 
their service or salary. Government officers will feel more 
important to-day They are likely to be called by ministers or 
other high officials for consultation. The day is also lucky for 
race fans. To-day is a day of selecting horses by drawing lots. Do 
not play on calculations. Male horses are sure to win. You will 


have heavy pockets to-day. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 3 and 7 No. 7 
is more important. Lucky period is only the morning time and 


from 5 to 7 p. m. You will have sound sleep at night. 


74 (Moon, Mercury, Mars) 14 
(Moon, Saturn, Sun) 


You wake up in the morning with a determination to enjoy 
the day. You will enjoy the morning time in the company of 
your children and wife. If you have bought new clothes, to-day 
is the day to start wearing them. You will be visited by a humo 
rous friend and will enjoy his wits. Probably you might be 
thinking of some scheme or partnership in which you have a 
financial interest. Write a couple of letters which you have 
delayed to do for a long time. You are likely to receive a letter 
from unexpected quarters. Meals will be to your satisfaction and 
you will attend your office in new clothes and with a cheerful 
heart. The wind in the stock exchange is likely to go against you. 
Deal in shipping and oil shares. The day is not favourable for 
doing big business. Go slow and do not do business on hunch. 
It is better to do hear business to-day as prices are likely to fall 
in a couple of day’s time. The day is extremely fine for cloth 
merchants, cutlery, soap and medicine stores also will do well. 
They should however guard themselves against deceitful customers. 
Fraud committed by an employee is likely to be detected to-day. 
The fortune on the Race course is very difficult to predict. Not 
to visit Race course is erring on the safe side. If at all you are 


tempted, stake on white male horses. 


Auspicious numbers for the day are 1 , 6 and 7. No. 6 is 
important. Lucky period is from 11 a. m. to 12 Noon. You will 


sleep well. 


(Moon, Venus, Saturn) 75 
(Mars, Mercury, Moon) 


Though bright things present themselves to you, you will 
shun them. Something has happened on the previous day which 
is disturbing your peace of mind. You will have toothache in the 
morning or your whole body might ache. Take a couple of Aspro 
pills and lie down in the bed. You will feel like remaining alone. 
This is due to the evil influence of Mars and Saturn. Otherwise 
the day is quite normal. Spend some time in the company of your 
children and inquire about their studies. If possible, have a cold 
bath. You will have no appetite and will not enjoy meals even 
though the food is quite tasty. You will attend office reluctantly. 
Do not dabble on the stock exchange to-day. Stocks are likely to 
remain very steady throughout the session If at all you so desire, 
go in for Rayon and Chemical shares. You will have some 
difficulty regarding payment of margin. Race-fans will find this 
day auspicious. Stake on hunch as far as possible. Brown and 
white colored horses are likely to win. Take tips from ladies, 
and children. Race No. 1 is likely to prove profitable. Do not 
stake on last 3 races. For other business men the day is very 
normal and there is nothing special to record. Some businessmen 
are likely to loose money due to confidence tricks or by their 


pockets being picked. 
Your lucky numbers for the day are 1, 2 and 3. No. | is 


important. Lucky hours are 6 p. m. to 9 p. m. you will not 


sleep well. 


(Venus, Mercury Saturn,) 76 
(Moon, Mars, Saturn) 


You wake up in the morning quite exhausted due to over 
indulgence in sex life the previous night. You feel quite dazed 
and stunned. Have a glass of hot milk and take a cold bath. 
Your neighbour is likely to bring you strange news regarding 
his family. The postman will not bring you expected letters. This 
is a lucky day for poets and writers. Whatever they will write 
to-day will have great appreciation. Avoid swimming and post 
pone a journey if contemplated. You will feel like visiting your 
doctor. Do so if possible. You will cause some worry to your 
wife by your silence. You will not enjoy your meals. On the 
stock exchange, the conditions are quite normal. Price pattern 
will be the same throughout. Hold on your previous contracts 
and do not do any fresh business. Do not follow the advice 
given to you by an expert operator. His judgment is likely to 
fail. For other traders the day is also normal. This is a slack day 
for sales. However estate brokers and grain merchants will find 
this day very lucky. Oil cake and oil merchants should do some 
big business to-day. For race-fans the day is one of mingled 
fortune. They will win the first few races and lose in the last 
ones. Stake on brown male horses. Do not play after the 3rd 


race. 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 5, 7, 9. No 7 is more 
important. Your lucky period is from 8 p. m. to 10 p. m. 7. a. m 
to 9. a. m. is a very unlucky period. You will sleep well at 


night. 


(Sun, Neptune, Jupiter) U7 
(Saturn, Saturn, Venus) 
a0 a. 


You wake up in the morning cheerfully and are in a 


religious frame of mind. You will have a happy time with old 
persons. Bring flowers and joss-sticks and worship your deity. 
Read some religious book and give alms to poor persons. It is 
likely that some one in the family has taken ill suddenly. Do not 
worry much as it is a negligible illness. Yon will have some hot 
words with your wife over some articles she may have purchased. 
You will find the newspaper more interesting to-day. You are 
likely to receive a long letter from your relative. Reply by return 
of post. You will have normal meals and will attend office 
cheerfully. On the stock exchange, the chances are that some 
syndicate is boosting prices of steel shares. Take advantage of 
the situation and get away with a respectable profit. For oil 
cake merchants, and persons dealing in kerosene, edible oils 
and scents, the day is quite lucky. They will do good business 
and are likely to fall short of the stock with them. Old Traders 
will have a more happy time. For race fans, the day is 
unfavorable. All their judgments will go wrong and they are 
likely to loose heavily. It would be better to abstain from 


attending the race course to-day 


Your lucky numbers are 1, 3 and 8. No. 8 is more auspi 
cious. lucky periods of the day are from 1 p.m, to 3 p. m. and 


night time. You will have a disturbed sleep. 


(Mercury, Moon, Mercury) 78 
(Venus, Moon, Venus) 


This is an extremely lucky day from the point of view of 
family life and finances. If somebody in the house has been ill 
for a long time, he will begin to feel better from to-day. The 
morning time is extremely lucky for you to do anything. Long 
standing worries will be over and you will feel relieved. You will 
pass a very happy time with your wife and children, If to-day 
is a holiday, go out for a picnic in some garden or on sea shore. 
You will experience financial ease and arc likely to spend more 
on luxury to-day. You arc likely to receive a good letter to-day 
which will set you thinking. Meals will be very tasty. The day is 
extremely lucky for stock exchange operators. This is a day for 
big jobbing. You will not repent to-day take advantage of rising 
prices and reap a bumper crop. Silk and rayon shares 
are likely to jump up. Do not enter into cash business to day. 
For other business men the day is also very favourable. Cloth 
merchants, jewelers and goldsmiths will do roaring business. 
Sailors, Astrologers and occult practitioners will have a busy day. 
This is a luckiest day for race fraternity. Stake on hunch as far 
as possible. The favourable aspect of moon will not deceive you 


to day. You should expect a heavy bag to day. 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 1, 3 and 5. Nnmber 
1 is more important, practically the whole of the day is auspi 


cious. You will sleep well at night. 


79 (Venus, Mars, Mercury) 79 
(Venus, Mars, Mercury) 


To day the primary and secondary planets working on your 
destiny are the same. The morning lime is quite comfortable except 
u small indisposition. Take an aspro pill and a good cup of tea. 
You will have to spend more for family to-day. The grocer’s bill 
will make you a bit uncomfortable. To-day is a day to write long 
delayed letters. Try to clean and rearrange your room. It is likely 
that unwelcome friends are likely to pay you a visit. Cut them short. 
You will hear some good music on the radio. You will feel like 
wanting a very tasty meals and are likely to bring vegetables of 
your own choice. You will attend office in good spirits. For stock 
exchange operators, the day is also very favourable. Do not do 
jobbing business to-day but go long in locomotive and automobile 
shares. You will not repent. The enhanced dividend in an import 
ant script will boost the market sentiment. For race-fans, the day 
is one of a mixed bag. But you will take something home. Play on 
brown horses. Mares are likely to win to-day. Do not play the 
last four races, as that time is not very favourable. For other 
business men the day is quite normal with nothing special to record. 
Estate brokers and farmers will have a good time. Cycle dealers 
also will do well to-day. 

Your lucky numbers for the day are 2, 3 and 5. No. 3 is 
more auspicious. Your lucky period is from 8 a. m. to 11 a. m. 
Whole of the evening and night time is not favourable. You will 


sleep well. 


80 


(Saturn, Jupiter, Mars) 


( Venus, Sun* Saturn) 


You wake up in the morning in fine spirits and feel very 
optimistic. If you have been planning something it will have , 
surprising success. Go ahead with your scheme. Morning time is 
favourable for poets and writers. They will have inspiring thoughts. 
By the way, have you got a religious function in the house to-day. 
You will be very busy purchasing something for the function. 
You will feel like taking casual leave. Do so. Your house is likely 
to be filled with your relatives and friends. You will be in a reli 
gious frame of mind throughout the day. For stock exchange frater 
nity, the day is quite normal with nothing to-day to do. It is 
better to refrain from doing any business to-day. Just go through 
your books and see if you can unload some shares at a good 
profit. If at all you desire to do some business, go in for autom 
obile shares in a small way. For other businessmen also the day 
is very dull. They will get only a few customers and are likely to 
spend their time idly. Dealers in sarees and cosmetics however 
will have a busy day. The fortunes on the race course cannot be 
foretold to-day. Your gains and losses are likely to be equal. It 
is better not to stake heavy sums on horses. 

The lucky numbers for the day are 1, 8 and 9. Number 8 is 
significant. The auspicious period for the day is only the morning 


time. 


81 


81 (Venus, Sun, Jupiter) 
(Mars, Venus, Jupiter) 


You wake up in the morning with a feeling of anxiety about 
your office work. But when you attend office you will think that 
your anxiety was misplaced. Do not worry and fret. You are 
likely to behave in a strange way. It is better to read some good 
book to laugh away your blues. Take a hot bath and go to the 
market to purchase some good vegetables. This will relieve you 
of some of your imaginary worries. You are likely to receive a 
couple of letters which will cheer you up a little. You will not 
enjoy your meals due to indisposition. You will attend office with 
some anxiety. For stock exchange operators, the day is without 
any luster. The market is likely to be dull, and you will feel like 
doing nothing to-day. However there is likely to be a flutter 
in the market at the close. Take advantage of this and unload 
some of your previous holdings. The day is also quite ordinary 
for other businessmen. However, truck owners, estate brokers 
and farmers will have good time. To-day is a day for placing 
new orders. For race course goers the day should prove quite 
normal and eventless. White male horses are likely to win to-day. 
Try first 3 races and go home with whatever will be in your 
pockets. 

The auspicious numbers for the day are 2, 5 and 5. No. 5 is 
more important. The lucky period is from 1 p. m. to 3 p. m. and 
night time. You will have a disturbed sleep. 


(Venus, Mercury, Moon) 82 
(Venus, Mars, Moon) 


The day is extremely lucky for you from financial point of 
view. If you have any scheme in hand, go ahead with it. You 
wake up in the morning quite hace and hearty. Family life, in 
particular is going to cheerful. You will be in a playful mood 
and tease your wife just to enjoy her anger. Some door to door 
salesman is likely to upset you. Do not purchase anything from 
him as you are likely to be deceived. You will feel like spending 
more time in the bath room. You are likely to receive a letter 
of a very ordinary type. You will enjoy your meals and 
go to office quite cheerfully. For stock exchange operators, the 
day is fine and you are advised to make hay while the sun shines 
Do. big business to-day. Transport, Automobile and steel shares 
are a good catch to-day. Do not do jobbing business, not hold 
on your folio for prices to rise further. For other businessmen 
the day is also lucky. Shop keepers will have many customers to 
day. Contractor and doctors will do very well to-day. The day is 
very lucky for under world activities Race-course fans will reap 
a bumber crop to-day. Try last 3 races. White mares are likely to 
win. play on hunch to-day instead of mathematical calculations 


and astrological predictions. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 1, 2 and 5. No. | is 
more significant. Your auspicious period is evening time and from 


9 to 10 p. m. You will have good sleep. 


(Venus, Moon, Mercury) 83 
(Moon Moon, Sun) 


lucky is the person who has chosen this number for the 
day. You wake up in the morning with an optimistic frame 
of mind as you have heard some good news in your office 
regarding promotion or transfer to a good place. The long 
delayed marriage of your daughter or sister is likely to be settled 
to-day You will feel relieved of some anxiety. The influence of 
moon on your mind to day will make you dreamy about your 
future life. Thisis an auspicious day for buying costly articles 
such as pressure cooker, radio or a fan. You will have a feast 
to day and willattend office light heartedly. For stock 
exchange operators the day is extremely lucky. A casual deal in 
any security particularly shipping shares will bring good divided 
within a short time. Do not do investment business to day but 
go in for jobbing. For other traders, the day is very fine 
Hotel owners, cloth and jewelery merchants and gold smiths will 


do good business to day. 


Government officers will fell important to-day. For race-course 
fans the day is extremely lucky. Luck will guide your money staked 
properly. Play on hunch. Do not bother about mathematics or 
Astrology, while horses are likely to win play race No- 1. 

Your lucky numbers for the day are 1, 8, 9, No 9 is more 
important. The lucky hours of the day are from 5 to 9 p. m. You will 


have a good sleep with a sweet dream. 


84 (Venus, Mars, Sun) 84 


(Sun, Mercury, Venus) 


You wake up early in the morning in good spirits and in a 
cheerful frame of mind The day is bright and you are bubbling 
with enthusiasm. You will feel financially at ease. The day is quite 
auspicious for entering into some contracts. If you are an office , 
bearer or Chairman of some institution, you will have an honour 
able day. Call a meeting of your institution to-day to discuss 
important problems. Home life is quite cheerful and congenial. 
You are likely to feel proud about your son's progress in studies. 
Make your wife happy by bringing her some garment. You will 
have good meals. For stock exchange operators, the day is extre 
mely lucky. Such lucky days are very rare indeed. Do some big 
business to-day. The market is going to rise within a couple of 
days. Buy a big parcel of steel or automobile shares. For other 
businessmen the day is also very fine. Estate brokers, cycle dealers 
or dealers in spare parts will have a busy time. Morning time 
will be more lucky for them. Race-fans will find the day very 
lucky. Persons born in the month of March are likely to have a 
more lucky time on the race course. Play on hunch. Male horses 


are likely to win. Play first 3 races. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 3, 5 and 7. No. 7 is more 
auspicious. The lucky hours of the day are from 7 to 11 a.m. 


and evening time. You will sleep well. 


85 


(Mercury, Herschel, Jupiter) 
(Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn) 


+ 


As the day is fully controlled by Saturn, you should be care 
ful throughout the day. You arc likely to feel unwell due to tooth 
ache or some bone trouble. The morning time would be gloomy 
and cheerless. Try to go out for a long walk or go to the market. 
You are likely to hear a bad news about your friend's relative. 
Take a hot bath and lie down for some time. The clouds of anx 
iety arc like’y to melt the next day. Do not write any letters to 
day. As far as possible remain aloof and observe silence. If you 
have decided to go on a journey, drop thj idea You will have a 
bad appetite to day. For stock exchange fraternity the day is 
dangerous. The whole pattern of prices will be deceitful. Do not 
be led away and tempted to buy because prices are rising. There 
is likely to be a heavy fall in prices within a couple of days. It is 
better to remain away from the stock exchange to-day. For other 
businessmen also the day is most unfortunate. They will have 
few customers. However persons dealing in oil-seed, oil cake and 
oil will have a lucky time. For race-course-fans, the only tip that 
can be given to them is to remain absent. Do not do anything to 


day on the race course. You are Likely to suffer heavy losses. 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 1,6 and 7. No. 7 
is more important. The whole of the day and night are 


inauspicious. You will have a disturbed sleep. 


(Mercury, Moon, Moon) 86 
(Venus, Mars, Jupiter) 


To-day is a day of sunshine and merry making for you. 
You wake up in the morning in a cheerful mood. Probably guests 
have departed on the previous night. You feel free to do anything 
you desire. For writers, this is a good day. They are likely to 
write much to-day. Family life is quite cheerful. The aspect of moon 
on your life to-day is quite lucky. Some good luck is in store for 
you. Imagination will play an important part to-day. You are likely 
to receive a letter of some importance to you in the long run Do 
not reply it to-day. You will have good meals and attend office in 
a cheerful mood. This is a hay day for stork exchange fraternity. 
Prices are likely to rise to phenomenal heights. Shipping shares 
are a good catch for the day. Do jobbing business to-day. Follow 
the advice of your broker. You will not repent if you do business 
on a grander scale. For other businessmen also the day should 
prove very lucky. Cutlery, cloth, diamond and musical instrument 
dealers will find this day particularly lucky. Truck owners and 
spare parts dealers will have an uncomfortable time. Nothing can 
be predicted regarding Race course. The day is so tricky that you 
will change your mind at the last moment and repent that your 


former judgments were correct. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 1, 4, 5. No. 1 is more 
important. Lucky period is from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. You will sleep 


well. 


87 (Venus, Mars, Mars) 87 


(Saturn, Jupiter, Mars) 


This is a very unlucky day for you due to the powerful 
influence of Mars and Saturn. You wake up in the morning with 
a heavy heart. There is some uncomfortable situation from 
which you are finding a way to escape. You will feel indisposed 
both physically and mentally. Try to amuse yourself by reading 
some light book. Your wife will become ill to-day causing you 
some worry. Financially this is a very unlucky day for you. 
You will not be able to meet some of your outstanding bills. 
You will think of asking for a small loan from your friend. You 
will have no appetite and will go to office in a despondent frame 
of mind. For stock exchange operators the day is a fateful one. 
It would be better not to do any business to day. Prices of shares 
are likely to remain stagnant. However automobile and engine 
ering shares are likely to come into lime light. For other business 
men also the day is not very auspicious. Sales would be very 
scanty. However persons dealing in oil cake and oil are likely 
to do good business to-day. Do business in these products on a 
bigger scale. For race-fans, the day is not a lucky one. You are 
likely to loose heavily. It is better to give a holiday to races 
to-day. If at all you are inclined to play, stake on first two 


races only. 


The lucky numbers for the day 2, 4, 6. No. 6 is impor 
tant. The whole of the day is unlucky. You will have a distur 


bed sleep. 


(Venus, Herchel, Jupiter) 88 
(Saturn, Jupiter, Jupiter) 


You wake up in the morning in fine spirits and want to 

enjoy all the thrills and pleasures of life. The influence of Jupiter will 
make you great to-day. Probably you are likely to hear a good news 
regarding your promotion or change of work. You will have ennobling 
thoughts and will he inclined to be more charitable. You are likely to 
purchase some clothes or toys for your small baby. She will be in fine 
spirit. This is a day for re arranging your room and sorting 
correspondence. You will have sumptuous meals and attend office in a 
cheerful frame of mind. The day is quite normal for stock exchange 
fans. There is no thing doing to-day. Do not do any big business to-day 
but hold on to your previous contracts. At the closing hour, there will be 
a great flutter in Century and Rayon shares- Do not dabble in them. For 
other traders, the day is quite good- They will have normal sales. Soap 
manufacturers, Kerosene merchants and perfumers will do very good 
business to-day. The day is good for stock-taking and giving now 
orders. For race-goers the day is quite good. Stake on black horses. Play 
race No. 2 and 3. It would be better to use your judgment rather than 


play on hunch 


Your lucky numbers for to-day are 1, 6 and 9. No. 6 is mofe 
. auspicious. Lucky period is from 4 p. m. to 7 p. m. You will 


have a disturbed sleep at night. 


89 (Moon, Jupiter, Mars) 89 
(Mars, Saturn, Mercury) 


You wake up in the morning pondering over some humilia- 
tation which you may have suffered on the previous day You 
are likely to behave strangely with your wife and children. It 
is possible that some unwelcome friend or neighbour visits you. 
Do not think about the past but try to be optimistic. 
Otherwise home life will be cheerful. Some one is likely to 
return a loan given to him by you. Your wife is likely to make a 
fabulous demand which will upset you all the more. It is better to 
go for a- long walk today all alone you maybe searching in vain 
for a mis placed article or letter. You will attend office in a 
gloomy mood. The day on the stock exchange is one of hectic 
activity. Prices are likely to swing both ways. Take advantage of 
this price Patern. It is better to go in for jobbing. Chemical and 
engineering shares are a good catch to-day. For other 
businessmen, the day is unpredictable. Some businessmen are 
likely to have a good time, persons dealing in gold and silver 
will have a happy time, Do not go in for fresh purchases 
today. Race-course-fans will find this day one of wind fall. 
Such lucky days do not come often. Stake big amounts on hunch 
and go home with your pockets full of money. Do not play last two 


races. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 1, 2 and 4. No. | is 
more auspicious. Lucky period is morning time. You will have 


a disturbed sleep. 


( Moon, Mercury, Saturn) 90 
(Mercury, Venus, Mars ) 


The influence of Saturn and Mars to-day is likely to land 
you in some trouble. Otherwise the day is quite normal. You 
wake up after a good sleep and feel quite happy and comfortable 
However the dullness of the day will make you feel uneasy* 
There is nothing thrilling both in the house or outside. Try to 
read some light book to while away your time, There is no letter 
for you to-day. This is a better day for artists, writers and musi 
cians. This is a good day for young persons. They are likely to 
enjoy the morning in the company of their friends. You have 
normal meals and go to office in cheerful spirits. For stock 
exchange operators this is a dull day, Nothing is moving in the 
market for a long time. Do not do much business to-day but sit 
tight on your previous holdings. However there is likely to be a 
flutter at the closing time. For other businessmen, the day is 
quite normal. They will have good sales. Book sellers, stationery, 
merchants and persons in scientific instruments will do roaring 
business. For race-course-fans, the day is also eventless. You are 
likely to gain nothing to-day. Gain in one race will be wiped out 
by losses in other races. Stake on brown horses. Try race No. 7. 


Male horses are likely to win. 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 7, 8, 9, No. 7 is more 
important. The whole of the day is normal- You sleep well at 


night. 


9 1 (Moon, Mercury, Saturn) 9 1 
(Venus, Mars, Jupiter) 


This is a lucky day from financial point of view. Somebody 
is likely to return a loan given to him by you. You will feel 
like arranging your room and cupboard. If you go out, you are 
likely to purchase an useful article at a cheap price. You are 
likely to be visited by some of your friends in the morning and 
you will pass a happy time in their company. To-day you will 
feel hungry from the morning and wish for tasty food. To-day is 
a day for changing clothes or wearing new ones. You will have a 
happy time with your children and wife. You will attend office 
normally. Work in the office would be very light. For stock Ex 
change operators the day is extremely lucky during the first 
hour. Do some big business to day. Rayon and Shipping shares 
are a good catch. Try also automobile shares. You are likely to 
make good money to-day. For other businessmen also the day is 
quite up to the mark. Oil cake, oil seeds and oil traders will 
have a good time. Prices of these articles would be in their favour 
and it would be better to unload a big parcel to-day. For race- 
course- fans the day is auspicious. Mares and horses having 
brown and white mixed colours are likely to w n. Try race No. 


1 and 3. Do not do anything in the last three races- 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 1, 3 and 6. No | is 
more auspicious. Lucky period of the day is morning time. You 


will sleep well. 


((Moon, Mercury, Jupiter) 92 
(Mars, Jupiter, Saturn) 


To day you wake up with a sense of heavy burden on your 
head. You feci quite sad and morose, as your wishes of the pre 
vious day are not likely to be fulfilled. You will be unnecessa- 
rily insulted and humiliated by your neighbour making you all 
the more uneasy. Try to observe silence and devote some of 
your time in prayers To-day prayer is the only remedy to bring 
you peace of mind. Go out for a long walk all alone. Do not 
think much about what has happened in the morning. Come 
home and take a hot bath You will have good meals but will 
go to office with anxiety. For stock exchange operators the day 
is extremely lucky as the market is likely to rise without any 
apparent cause. Do some bull business and do not sell out 
immediately. Textile and Rayon shares are likely to be in the 
lime light. For other businessmen the day is quite normal with 
nothing to record either way. Under world businessmen are 
likely to be lucky to-day This is a good day for smugglers and 
black marketers. For race-fans, the day is unpredictable. If you 
are born in January or September the day is very lucky. Persons 
born in December should give a holiday to the race course as they 


are likely to loose heavily. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 4, 8, 9. No. 4 is 


important. The whole of the day is normal. You will have a 


disturbed sleep. 


93 


(Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn) 


(Sun, Neptune, Mars) 


The day is very fine for old persons. If some one has been 
ill for some time he w.11 begin to feel better. Old persons are 
likely to meet old friends and relatives to-day. This is a day 
for them to pray and worship. Generally this is a fairly normal 
day for others also. There is nothing special to record. They will 
have a happy morning tune. They will feel like enjoying life to 
day. Try light literature and music to-day. Writers will be dis 
appointed to see that their manuscripts are returned by magazine 
editors or publishers. This is a good day for persons born on 
Saturday or in the month of June. For stock exchange operators, 
the day appears to be most unlucky. Price pattern cannot be 
predicted. However blue chips are likely to show fair strength. 
Go in for steel and Engineering shares. Do small business to 
day. However it would be better to be away from the stock 
exchange. For other businessmen also the day is gloomy. They 
are likely to be involved in sales tax trouble and harassment by 
excise officials. Oil seeds, oil cake and oil merchants however 
will fare better to-day. For race-fans the day is most unlucky. 
However black horses are likely to win. Do not play after the 
forth race. Try your luck in third and fourth race. Do not stake 


heavy amounts to-day. 


The auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 6, 8. No. 8 is 


significant. Morning time is more lucky. You will sleep normally 


94 (Sun, Neptune, Mercury ) 94 
( Saturn, Saturn, Venus ) 


Though the primary planets are auspicious, the influence of 
the Secondary planets will cast there evil shadows on your life 
to-day. Family life is likely to be disturbed. You wake up in 
the morning quite morose and cross. Are you fearing to face 
some person in the morning? Probably he will come to you to 
demand repayment of a loan. Be polite and request him to wait, 
for another few days. If you have a father, he will be in fine 
spirits to day. The day should be devoted to prayers. Remain 
calm and composed throughout the day You will have no appe 
tite and will go to office with some fear in your mind. For 
stock exchange operators, the day should prove to be lucky. 
Blue chips and oil and chemical shares are likely to rise. Do 
some bull business in these shares at the start and hold on the 
contracts for a week or so. For other businessmen, the day is 
quite normal. They are likely to have normal sales. Persons 
dealing in oil, oil seeds, and oil cake will have a very happy time 
to-day. Older persons in business will have a good day. This 
is a most unlucky day for race-fans. All your ideas and hunches 
will go wrong and you are likely to loose heavily. Only play 1 


or 2 races and stake on black horses. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 3, 5, 6. No. 6 is more 
auspicious. The whole of the day is inauspicious. You will have 


a disturbed sleep. 


95 ( Venus, Mars, Jupiter ) 95 
(Venus, Sun, Saturn) 


You must thank me for telling you that you will be free 
from some great fear which you have been entertaining in your 
mind for a long time. You will be quite light hearted and jovial 
in the morning. You will be in humorous mood and would 
like to tease your wife. You will receive some letter from a close 
relative of yours. Go for a stroll and bring some vegetables. 
You will have a happy time in the company of your children. 
If you have brought office work at home, you will not do it. 
Meals are likely to be tasty and you will attend office quite cheer 
fully. For stock exchange operators, the day is very dull. They 
will wonder what to do to-day. Prices are likely to remain stag 
nant. However Rayon shares are a good catch to-day. Buy some 
Rayon shares and unload within a week with good profit. For 
other businessmen, the day is quite normal. The day is good for 
stock checking and preparing accounts for income-tax work. 
Speculation in black commodities will bring you good profits. 
Estate brokers, police personnel and farmers will find this day 
some what lucky. For race-fans, the chances are even. You are likely to 
go home with your cash only in tact. You will win and loose the same 
amount. 

The lucky numbers for the day are 3, 7 and 9. No. 9 is more 
auspicious. The auspicious hours are from 9 a. m. to 11 a.m. and 7 p. m. 


to 8 p. ra. You will sleep well. 


(Venus, Venus, Jupiter) 9 6 


(Venus, Sun, Saturn) 


You wake up in the morning with a cheerful mind and feel 
hale and hearty. The day is quite normal and you have 
nothing to do in the morning. Read some light book in the 
morning. Go over old correspondence or a diary if you are 
keeping one. You are likely to feel more optimistic regarding 
your financial position. You will probably call on an elderly 
person to inquire about his health. You will read some 
important news in the newspapers. You will have good appetite 
and enjoy your meals. You will attend office in a normal 
mood. For stock exchange operators the day is lucky especially 
for ladies. Business transacted in the name of your wife will 
be fruitful. Go in for Rayon and Transport Company shares. Do 
not do jobbing to-day but hold on your contracts till settlement 
For other business* men, the day is quite lucky. They will have 
roaring sales. Persons dealing in perfumery, cosmetics and 
ladies garments, will find this day extremely lucky. For 
musicians, dancers and writers also the day is very auspicious. 
For race-fans, the day is quite normal. Your profits would be 
small but sure. Go in for black mares and play last 3 races. A good 
day indeed. 

Your lucky numbers for the day are 2, 4, 5. No. 5 is more 
important. Lucky period is evening time only. You will sleep 


late but soundly. 


(Mars, Neptune, Moon) 97 
(Sun, Mercury, Venus ) 


As the day is fully controlled by Neptune in conjunction 
with Mars and Moon, Older persons arc likely to suffer to-day. 
Some of them would suddenly take ill causing anxiety to other 
members of the family. But the day is not dangerous at all. 
They should call a doctor and take medicine For other people 
the day is quite fine and cheerful. The morning time would be spent 
in the company of good old friends over a cup of tea. Arc you 
planning a journey in the immediate future ? Do so. Your appe 
tite will be abnormal and you will eat well. You will attend office 
cheerfully. For stock exchange operators, the day is quite good. 
To-day is a day for long term investments. Such transactions 
will yield very good profits in the long run. Go in for shipping 
shares of older companies. For other businessmen the day is 
without any thrill. They will have normal customers. The day is 
auspicious for ladies dress makers, dealers in cosmetics and gold 
smiths This is a good day for the under world businessmen. 
Gamblers will have a happy time. For race course fraternity, 
the day is quite good. To-day older horses are likely to win. 


Try brown horses. Play even races. 


The auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 3, 9. No. 9 
is more auspicious. The lucky period is night time only. You 


will keep late hours and sleep normally. 


(Venus, Mercury, Venus) 98 
(Mercury, Moon, Mercury) 


This is an extremely lucky day for you both from financial 
and family point of view. You wake up in the morning from 
some sweet and auspicious dream. You are likely to be very 
busy in the morning in the company of some persons casually 
known to you. For writers this is a very fine day They are 
likely to write much to-day. The standard of their writing also 
will be very high. This is a day to change your clothes. You are 
likely to receive a letter from a relative of yours who is far away 
from you. Newspaper and radio will interest you to-day. For 
stock exchange fans the day is one of great wind-fall. You will 
earn very good profits in jobbing. Take full advantage of rising 
prices and unload at the end of the session. Shipping, Rayon and 
Chemical shares are likely to come in the lime light. For other 
businessmen also the day is quite happy. Speculators in silver 
and cotton are likely to be happy over their profits. The day 
is one for doing big business. Do not do any business in jaggary 
or chilly. This is a day for ordering goods from abroad. For 
race-course-fans also the day appears to be extremely lucky. The 
influence of moon will bring good luck to them. Try white mares 
as far as possible. Even races would prove auspicious. 

The lucky numbers for the day are 1, 2 and 3 No. | is 
significant. The whole of the day is auspicious. You will sleep 


soundly. 


(Venus, Mars, Moon) 99 
(Venus, Mercury, Jupiter) 


This is a very lucky day for high Government officers and 
persons engaged in teaching profession. Their special work and 
ability is likely to be appreciated. If to day is Thursday the 
above aspect will be all the more powerful. For others also the 
day is quite happy and cheerful This is a better day for ladies. 
Birth of a bonny son is indicated. You are likely to feel proud 
of your personality and would try to look better by wearing new 
clothes. This is a good day for a long walk. Take your children 
with you and buy them some articles or sweets. You will enjoy 
your meals and go to office quite cheerfully. For stock exchange 
fans, the day is also very favourable. Shares of oldest companies 
are likely to rise. Go in for steel and textile shares of renowned 
companies. To-day’s purchases should be for long term holding. 
Do not do jobbing to-day. For other businessmen, the day is 
quite normal and good, to-day many businessmen are likely to 
be relieved from income-tax and sales-tax anxieties. For religious 
minded businessmen, the day is specially lucky. God will help 
them to day. For race-fans, the day is also favourable. They 
will earn good money to-day. Races No. 3 and 5 are more 


lucky. Try older horses to-day. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 1, 7 and 8. No. 7 is 
significant. Morning time and 7 p. m. to 10 p. m. are lucky 
periods. Avoid writing letters. You will keep late hours and 


sleep well. 


l 00 (Mercury, Herschel, Saturn ) 1 00 


(Saturn, Sun, Jupiter) 


The conjunction of Herschel and Saturn is likely to play 
some mischief lo day. You wake up in the morning to face a 
grave problem which is threatening you for a long time. Do not 
worry much. All will be well in the near future. You are likely 
to feel unwell. Your neighbour will give you some trouble to 
day. Try to be polite to him. As the day indicates some sort 
of physical injury, be cautious while traveling in the train. It 
is better not to drive a car or ride a bicycle. You will not receive 
expected letters. Meals will not give you satisfaction and you 
will go to office with wrinkles on your forehead. For stock 
exchange operators, the day is fatal. It is not possible to judge 
the trend of stock prices. There is likely to be a great swing on 
either side. Only transport and automobile shares are safe to 
deal in. However it would be better to give a holiday to stock 
exchange to-day. For other businessmen also, the day is most 
unfavorable. The sales would be below expectations. However 
speculators in oil will have a lucky chance. For race-fans, the 
day is most unpredictable due to the secondary influence of 
Herschel. It would be better to stake very small amounts. Try 
male horses. Do not stake on the first 2 races. You are likely 


to be a winner in race No. 4. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 4, 5, 8. No. 4 is signi 
ficant. The whole of the day is inauspicious. You will have a 


disturbed sleep. 


101 (Mercury* Herschel, Saturn) 1 01 
(Saturn, Jupiter, Saturn) 


To-day you wake up quite tired due to keeping late hours 
on the previous night. You feel draws/ and uneasy and desire to 
do nothing in the morning. You will read some unusual news 
in the newspapers. For old persons however the day is quite 
good. They are likely to be more religious minded and spend 
much of their time in reading religious books. The day will give 
you an experience of sudden strange events and happenings in 
your life. In the morning you should try to employ your mind 
in arranging your correspondence or cleaning your room. Your 
radio, sewing machine or clock is likely to go out of order. You 
will have poor meals and go to office reluctantly. For stock ex 
change fraternity, the day is most fatal. It is better not to do 
any big business to-day. Prices will go against your expectations 
and you will feel worried. Do not unload your holdings to-day. 
Everything will become smooth after about a week’s time. For 
other businessmen also the day is not very favourable. They are 
likely to be served with notices, from Income tax office or sales 
tax department. Do not ignore them. The day, otherwise is un 
eventful. For race-fans, the day is also fatal. . Your calculations 
and study of horses will go all wrong. Play on hunch if at all 
you want to play. Try bla:k ho/ses. Race No. 4 and 6 will prove 
lucky. 


Your auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 4 and 6. No. 6 
is important. The whole of the day is unfavourable, You will 


have a disturbed sleep. 


] 02 (Moon, Saturn, Jupiter) 1 02 


(Neptune, Moon, Venus) 


The Secondary aspect of Neptune, Moon and Venus is 
very auspicious to-day. You wake up quite cheerfully in the 
morning. To-day you are likely to write many letters. For 
musicians writers and painters this is a lucky day. They will be 
in the demand to-day. You are likely to spend much of your 
time at horns doing nothing. You are likely to be visited by 
some of your friends in whose company you will spend much 
of your time. You willhave a good appetite and go to your 
office with a cheerful frame of mind. For stock exchange 
fraternity, this is normally a luckyday. Markets are likely to 
rise from to-day. Go in for Rayonand Shipping shares. To- 
day you should do bull business in the above two scrips. Do 
not do jobbing to-day. Hold on to yourcontracts at least till 
settlement. For other businessmen the dayis quite encouraging. 
Money-lenders, shroffs and dealers in gold, silver and luxury 
articles are likely to fare much better to-day. The price of 
silver is likely to shoot up. Take full advantage ofthis rise by 
doing big business in silver. For race-fans also the day is 
quite lucky. Play on dark coloured horses. Race No. 1 and 6 
should prove more lucky. Play on hunch and on the advice of 
old persons. For ladies this day is particularly very paying. 
Card-players and persons in the underworld will have a 


favourable time throughout the day. 


Your lucky numbers for the day are 1,4 and 6. No. 4 
is significant 3 p. m. to 7 p. m. is auspicious time. You will 


sleep well. 


103 (Mercury, Moon, Jupiter) 1 03 


(Venus, Sun, Saturn) 


You wake up early in the morning from a happy and sym 
bolic dream. Morning time is fine and quite lively. The day is 
suitable for purchase of house-hold articles. To-day you are likely 
to receive a letter from an old friend asking for monetary help. 
Do not refuse it. To-day you are likely to be in a religious mood 
and would like to worship God. Do it with all concentration 
and devotion. Meals are likely to be tasty and you attend office 
in a happy go lucky frame of mind. You will have a good news 
for you in the office. For stock exchange operators, the day is 
extremely lucky. To-day is a day of good profit Do jobbing in 
steel and engineering shares. To-day you should go in for bull 
operations. Prices of the above two scrips are likely to shoot 
up at the close. Such profits on the stock exchange are very rare. 
For race-goers also the day is lucky. You should however stake 
small amounts in many races instead of slaking a big amount in 
one race. White mares are likely to win. Race No. 3 and i 
should prove particularly lucky. For other businessmen, the day 
is prosperous. Almost all the shopkeepers will have heavy sales. 
Some businessmen will be free from income tax or sales tax 


anxiety. Give some money in charity to-day. 


The auspicious numbers for the day are 3, 4 and 5. Out of 
this No. 5 is significant. Evening time is more lucky than rest of 


the day. You will have sound sleep. 


1 04 (Venus, Herschel, Saturn) 1 04 


(Venus, Mars, Sun) 


Some strange incidents are likely to occur to-day in your 
family. Some humorous utterance is likely to create a storm. 
It is better you observe silence to day at least in the morning. 
You will unsuccessfully try to find out a misplaced document or 
article. The morning time is likely to be gloomy and uncomfor 
table. If to-day is a holiday do not go for an outing. You will 
feel like taking french leave to-day. The anger of your wife will 
spoil the whole of the day. You will have no appetite and will 
go to office in a gloomy and dismal mood. For stock exchange 
operators the day is quite unpredictable. The pattern of prices 
of engineering shares however will be profitable to you. Go in 
for Tata Locomotive or Premier Automobiles shares. It is better 
to do jobbing to-day. However the day would be quite unevent 
ful. For other traders, the day is quite good. Some police officers 
would have done a good job to-day and they should expect a pat 
on their back by their boss. Persons in transport line will have a 
happy time. This is a lucky day for persons engaged in black- 
market. For race-goers the day appears to be a gloomy day. 
Your expectations and judgments will go all wrong and you are 
likely to loose heavily to-day. If at all you want to risk your 


money stake on white mares and play race No. 5 and 8. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 5, 6 and 8. Number 8 


is more important. The whole of the day is inauspicious. 


] 05 (Mercury, Mars, Sun) 1 05 


(Mercury, Neptune, Sun) 


The influence of the three secondary planets will have 
more influence on your life to-day. You are likely to receive an 
encouraging letter from your father or an elder person. Home 
atmosphere is quite cheerful. You are likely to tell your family 
about a strange incident which you have witnessed the 
previous day. To-day you appear to be more interested in 
your meals rather than anything else. Request your wife to 
prepare a good dishfor you today. This day should prove 
more auspicious as itadvances. To-day you will be in a 
philosophical mood. For stock exchange fraternity, the day is 
very encouraging To-day isa day for unloading long standing 
contracts with a decent profit. You should buy shares of long 
standing and dividend paying companies. Do not do jobbing 
to-day. For other traders also the day is quite good. Money 
lenders, shroffs and black marketers will have a happy time 
For card players and persons staking money on figures the 
day is very auspicious. Evening time is more cheerful and 
you should enjoy it. For race-goers the day is very lucky. 
Male horses are sure to win. Stake on older horses to-day. 
Brown coloured horses are sure to pay you good dividend. 
Play on hunch rather than mathematical calculations and 


astrological predictions. You will go home quite cheerfully to-day. 


Your lucky numbers are 2, 3 and 7. No. 2 is more impor 


tant. 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. is an auspicious period. You will sleep well. 


106 (Venus, Mercury, Moon) 1 06 
(Venus, Mars, Moon) 


The day is extremely lucky for you from financial point of 
view. If you have any scheme in hand, go ahead with it You 
wake up in the morning quite hale and hearty. Family life, in 
particular is going to be cheerful. You will be in a playful mood 
and tease your wife just to enjoy her anger. Some door to door 
salesman is likely to upset you. Do not purchase anything from 
him as you are likely to be deceived. You will feel like spending 
more time in the bath room. You are likely to receive a letter 
of a very ordinary type. You will enjoy your meals and go to 
office quite cheerfully. For stock exchange operators, the day is 
fine and you are advised to make hay while the sunshines. Do 
big business to-day. Transport, automobile and steel shares are 
a good catch to-day. Do not do jobbing business, but hold on 
your folio for prices to rise further. For other businessmen the 
day is also lucky. Shop keepers will have many customers to day. 
Contractors and doctors will do very well to-day. The day is 
very lucky for underworld activities. Race-course-fans will reap 
a bumper crop to-day. Try last 3 races. White mares are likely 
to win. Play on hunch to-day instead of mathematical calcula 


tions and astrological predictions. 


The lucky numbers for the day are 1, 2 and 5. No. 1 is 
more significant. Your auspicious period is evening time and from 


9 to 10 p. m. You will have good sleep. 


l Q7 (Mars, Neptune, Mercury) 1 07 


(Jupiter, Venus, Moon) 


The day begins with your waking from a funny but symbolic 
dream. Unfortunately this is a bit unfortunate day for you. You 
will postpone or cancel an engagement scheduled for the 
morning. You are likely to feel sad and morose during a major 
part of the day. Do not lend money to any person as the repay 
ment will be delayed. On this day you will like to be left alone 
but some unwelcome jokes from friends would disturb your mind. 
You will lose your normal appetite and will not enjoy your meals. 
During business or office hours you will come across different 
problems which will disturb you greatly. It would be to your 
advantage to postpone new business deals, or to reconsider old 
proposals. If you are in service you will find this day a tough 
one as the pressure of work would be too great to bear. From 
2 p. m. onwards you will be relieved from the morning worries 
and begin to feel gay and optimistic. You are likely to enjoy 
your evening with your family members at home. There is a pos 
sibility of old or pious persons visiting you. Some of your time will be 
spent in searching some old papers or a misplaced article. You are 
most likely to be more sentimental towards your dear children and will 
play with them with love and affection. Your house will assume a gay 
aspect in the evening. Some financial good luck is in store for you or 
you will secure some gift from a friend. If you arc a religious minded 
person, your devotion to God will assume great depth to-day and your 
prayers will be granted. You will have a peaceful and undisturbed 
sleep at night. 

Your auspicious numbers for the day are 1, 6 and 8. The lucky 
hours of the day are 10 a. m., and 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. Any deal, proposal 


or contract made around this period should prove a great success. 


- + 
(Mercury, Jupiter, Mercury) 1 08 
(Jupiter, Mars, Venus) 


This is a day when Goddess of wealth will visit you with a 
smiling face. Do some big things to-day. Your morning hours 
are likely to be exceptionally favourable and lucky. This is a 
day on which you should make your wife happy by buying her 
some new garments or an ornament. Some elder person from 
her father’s family is likely to visit you. To-day you are likely to 
be more religious minded and a bit more serious in your behavi 
our. Pray God fervently and do some religious rites if possible. 
Your office work will be normal. Nothing special to record. For 
operators on the stock exchange this should prove a lucky day 
for them. Go in for textile shares. Do not do jobbing to-day 
but hold on to your contracts. If you have a bull position already 
you should unload at least three forth of your holding which you 
can cover with good profit before settlement. This is a lucky 
day for money lenders and pawn brokers. Some overdue loans 
advanced by them are likely to be recovered in full with interest.- 
For race course fraternity the race course should prove to be a 
“cave of forty thieves.’ Take more money with you. Horses 
with mixed white and brown colours are likely to win. Horse 
number 3 in the fifth race will bring you good dividend. This is 
a day for silver kings as there is a possibility for them to do 
business on a gigantic scale with future good profits assured. 
Night time will be very fine and you will sleep well. 

Your auspicious numbers for to-day are 3, 5 and 7. Num 
ber 7 is significant. Your lucky period is morning time. 


