Know Yourself 


...your signs ...your destiny 


Note: This ebook is not copyright. Although | am distributing it freely, you can 
also make money selling it. You are free to sell this ebook and keep all the 
amount to you, but only if you don’t make any changes in this ebook. 


- Acharya K. 


The Ram 
March 21 to April 20 


Aries.....more about you 

The spring equinox, March 21, is the beginning of the new zodiacal year and 
Aries, the first sign, is therefore that of new beginnings. The young ram is 
adventurous, ambitious, impulsive, enthusiastic and full of energy. The Arian 
is a pioneer both in thought and action, very open to new ideas and a lover of 
freedom. They welcome challenges and will not be diverted from their 
purpose except by their own impatience, which will surface if they don’t get 
quick results. 


Aries subjects are courageous leaders with a genuine concern for those they 
command, being responsible people, it is rare that they will use their 
subordinates to obtain their own objectives as leaders, but occasionally it 
does happen. They do not make very good followers because they are too 
“take charge”. They may be unwilling to obey or submit to directions for which 
they can see no reason, or with which they disagree. They are much 
concerned with self, both positively and negatively - self-reliant but also self 
centered (sometimes) and concerned with their own personal advancement 
and physical satisfaction. Their immense energy makes them aggressive and 
restless, argumentative occasionally, headstrong, quick tempered, easily 
offended and capable of holding grudges if they feel themselves affronted. 


As the first sign in the zodiac, you, as an Arian (as you are referred to), is to 
simply “get something started and lead the way”. The Sun in this zodiac 
position gives your will free rein to express itself. You could be doing this in 
the form of some leadership role, or by forcing others to look at themselves in 
a new way. You can accomplish this by knowingly carrying out a deliberate 
act in the name of some cause that moves you. A negative effect of this sun 
sign is that you could sometimes unknowingly make it hard for others to relate 
to you, as you really are. 


In your personal relationships Arians are frank, direct and candid, and make 
enthusiastic and generous friends. You are liable to have a high sex drive and 
make passionate but fastidious lovers. There is, however, a negative side to 
your associations with other people. You can easily be irritated by slowness or 
moderation in your companions and, though yourselves sensitive, ride 
roughshod over the sensitivities of others. The intensity of your sexual urges 
can drive you to promiscuity and a Don Juan-like counting of conquests of the 
opposite sex. It can also trick you into early unwise marriage which may end 
disastrously. Arians are highly devoted to their children, even to the point of 
laying down their own lives, so that they might live. You will not find a more 
defensive and loving parent in all the zodiac. 


It is preferable to be aware of your pioneering spirit and not disregard it. For in 
acknowledging it you not only enjoy life more, but you avoid being pushed 
around by others. Your nature is usually push or be pushed, with little middle 
ground. This can at times be objectionable to others, but you must have the 
freedom to act, rather then just thinking about it, getting pent-up in the 
process. At all costs you need to avoid negative emotions such as 
resentment, regret and self-pity, for they would deny you what is essential to 
your nature: straightforwardness. 


Mentally Arians are intellectual and objective, but can be in rare situations 
bigoted and extremist in religion and politics. They are good champions of lost 
causes and last-ditch resistance. They are quick-witted but sometimes 
foolhardy and over optimistic, lacking thoroughness and the ability to evaluate 
difficulties in the undertakings into which they often rush impulsively. The 
great need of Aries natives is to exercise an iron self-control, to discipline the 
qualities and tendencies of their character to the advantage, not the detriment, 
of the society in which they move. 


As an Arian, you like a challenge that will stir you to action. This challenge 
may just be frustration; or ata more controlled level, you may have clear 
direction and know what or whom you're fighting for. If your direction is not 
clear, then ask yourself and listen to your inner voice. You will come up with 
an answer. An Arian without a direction in which to go, or a without a cause to 
fight for, would be against your nature and make you more a “sheep” then a 
ram! 


Arian, do not be afraid to be forceful, for this is the very core of your nature. If 
you feel fear in your heart, then look for a history of negative events in you 
personal history, such as violence or abuse from others. Being fearful may 
also indicate a household in childhood that negated independence and 
personal initiative in you. This could have inhibited your natural urge to go 
forward into life as the leader and champion you were born to be. Conversely, 
such bad influences could also have led you to be overly forceful, or to be 
unsympathetic to your own need and sensitivity. 


You make good athletes and climbers, doctors, explorers (of new ideas as 
well as uncharted territory, the latter in these days including adventuring into 


outer space), soldiers, sailors and airmen, and leaders, though awkward 
subordinates, in industry and politics. 


Much as you are the Ram, there is still the little lamb in you, which means that 
at times you would attain your goals more easily by gently giving in without 
resistance to the demands of a given social situation, rather than getting your 
horns entangled in something larger and more powerful than yourself. This is 
a talent akin to knowing the difference between what you can change, and 
what you cannot. This of course takes patience, the acquiring of which is 
definitely your greatest achievement, along with your sense of your own inner 
softness. 


LIKES 

Action 

Coming in first 
Challenges 
Championing Causes 
Spontaneity 
DISLIKES 

Waiting Around 
Admitting Failure 

No opposition 
Tyranny 

Other peoples advice 


PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 

As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. When 
these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. However, with 
astrology we can examine the problem and assess the proper solution based 
on the sun sign characteristics. As an Arian you may see things below that 
really strike home. Try the solution, you most likely will be amazed at the 
results. If you find yourself on the receiving end of the negatives below, it is 
because you are failing to express the positive. 


PROBLEM: Projects that come to nothing. Partnerships full of conflict and 
argument. 

SOLUTION: See your role as the “person with ideas” then, work on inspiring 
others to carry them out. Develop a higher capacity to “listen” and not speak. 


PROBLEM: Lacking real coherence and direction. Failing to contemplate, only 
pretending to be decisive. 

SOLUTION: What springs from your actions is only a reflection of your heart. 
Soul search and resolve some personal issues you may have buried. 


PROBLEM: Being deserted by others because they cannot make you notice 
them and their feelings in any other way. 

SOLUTION: If you truly have a point, if you don’t they won’t. Examine your 
attitude and put yourself in their shoes. 


PROBLEM: Always tripping over yourself, inviting conflict and harsh 
treatment. Getting deflated. 

SOLUTION: Learn the art of looking before you leap. Which means first 
finding out what it is you wish to make happen first, then act. 


Your ruling planet is MARS 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


The animal associated with you sign is this noble looking ram. The Ram first 
appeared in Egypt, alternating with a goose’s head as the symbol of Aries; its 
origin is a mystery. 


The color of choice for Aries is RED 


Your starstone is the precious Diamond. The diamond is considered the 
greatest of stones, revered throughout the ages for its great beauty, and 
strength, and also for its powerful positive spiritual and physical influences. 
The diamond is said to enhance the wearer with charm and beauty. Physically 
it strengthens the kidneys and reproductive organs and gives protection in 
severe disease. The ancient Romans believed that the diamond, when worn 
on the left arm, next to the skin, would give the wearer bravery and daring. 
During the Middle Ages Queen Elizabeth | was given a diamond to ward off 
the plague. 


The Bull 
April 21 to May 21 


Taurus.... About Your Sign... 


The Taurean’s characteristics are solidity, practicality, extreme determination 
and strength of will - no one will ever drive them, but they will willingly and 
loyally follow a leader they trust. They are stable, balanced, conservative 
good, law-abiding citizens and lovers of peace, possessing all the best 
qualities of the bourgeoisie. As they have a sense of material values and 
physical possessions, respect for property and a horror of falling into debt, 
they will do everything in their power to maintain the security of the status quo 
and be somewhat hostile to bad change. 


Mentally, they are creative, keen-witted and practical more often than 
intellectual, but apt to become fixed in their opinions through their preference 
for following accepted and reliable patterns of experience. Their character is 
dependable, steadfast, prudent, just, firm and unshaken in the face of 
difficulties. Their vices arise from their virtues, going to extremes on 
occasion,such as sometimes being too slavish to the conventions they 
admire. 


They are faithful and generous friends with a great capacity for affection, but 
rarely make friends with anyone outside their social rank, to who they 

are faithful. In the main, they are gentle, even tempered, good natured, 
modest and slow to anger, disliking quarreling and avoiding ill-feeling. If they 
are provoked, however, they can explode into violent outbursts of ferocious 
anger in which they seem to lose all self-control. Equally unexpected are their 
sallies into humor and exhibitions of fun. 


Although their physical appearance may belie it, they have a strong aesthetic 
taste, enjoying art, for which they may have a talent, beauty (recoiling from 
anything sordid or ugly) and love music. They may have a strong, sometimes 
unconventional, religious faith. Allied to their taste for all things beautiful is a 
love for the good things of lifes pleasures, comfort, luxury and good food and 
wine but also they have to resist the temptation to over indulgence, leading to 
drunkenness, gross sensuality, and covetousness. 


In their work, Taureans are industrious and good craftspeople, and are not 
afraid of getting their hands dirty. They are reliable, practical, methodical and 
ambitious, within a framework of obedience to superiors. They are at their 
best in routine positions of trust and responsibility, where there is little need of 
urgency and even less risk of change, and a pension at the end. Yet they are 
very creative and good founders of enterprises where the rewards of their 
productiveness come from their own work and not that of others. 


They are more than averagely amorous and sensually self-conscious, but 
sexually straightforward and not given to experiment. They make constant, 
faithful, home loving spouses and thoughtful, kindly parents, demanding too 
much of neither their spouses nor children. They can be possessive and may 
sometimes play the game. If anyone offends their amour proper they can be a 
determined enemy, though magnanimous in forgiveness if their opponent 
makes an effort to meet them halfway. 


No other sign in the zodiac is closer to earth then Taurus. 


The main objective in leading a Taurean life is primarily (though not entirely) 
to maintain stability and physical concerns. Your inner spiritual sense longs 
for earthly harmony and wholesomeness and you fully understand this, and 
work toward this end. A realization that finding this inner peace will allow you 
to live your life to the very full. 


Ultimately the Taurean needs to discover their truest, deepest and highest 
values. When they know what is truly valuable, they are not chained to 
people or to things that have to do with lesser values. The greatest indication 
of value to a Taurean is beauty, which cannot be owned, only appreciated. 


LIKES 

Stability 

Being Attracted 
Things Natural 

Time to Ponder 
Pleasure 

DISLIKES 

Disruption 

Being pushed too hard 
Synthetic or “man made” things 
Being rushed 

Being indoors 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. When 
these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. However, with 
astrology we can examine the problem and assess the proper solution based 
on the sun sign characteristics. As a Taurean you may see things below that 
really strike home. Try the solution, you most likely will be amazed at the 
results. If you find yourself on the receiving end of the negatives below, it is 
because you are failing to express the positive. 


PROBLEM: Having feelings of being used and manipulated, led down the 
garden path and made a sucker of. 

SOLUTION: Realize that your magnetism attracts negative as well as positive 
influences. You need to choose your friends, not let them choose you. 


PROBLEM: Physical things start loosing their appeal, and you feel more and 
more out of touch with the world around you. You stop caring so much about 
how much money you have among other physical concerns. 

SOLUTION: You are starting to discover an inner harmony that is trying to 
replace the physical with spiritual. You must let this grow without killing the 
part of you that provides sustenance for your family. 


PROBLEM: Unexplained fear of loss, jealousy and a paranoia that others are 
out to get you. 

SOLUTION: You have within you the ability to not only attract faithfulness, 
but also the intellect to see what is truly going on around you. You are loosing 
faith in both of these personal traits. Rebuild that faith. 


PROBLEM: Feeling depressed with life. Disgusted and dissatisfied. People 
around you are little comfort. You feel that life lacks meaning. Easily addicted 
to physical pleasures. 

SOLUTION: Revisit and realize the value of spiritual things in life. Take 
control of your life by realizing it is not the things in life that are important, but 
the spirit behind it all. 


Your ruling planet is VENUS 

Some more interesting facts about your sign: 

The animal associated with you sign is this tough looking bull. The Egyptian 
Hourus was the bull of heaven, and a white bull was sacrificed in Babylonia at 
the New Year to placate Ramman, the god of thunder and lightning. 


The color of choice for Taurus is PINK 


Your Starstone is the EMERALD 


The Twins 
May 22 to June 21 


Gemini.... About Your Sign... 


Gemini, the sign of the Twins, is dual-natured, elusive, complex and 
contradictory. On the one hand it produces the virtue of versatility, and on the 
other the vices of two-facedness and flightiness. The sign is linked with 
Mercury, the planet of childhood and youth, and its subjects tend to have the 
graces and faults of the young. When they are good, they are very attractive; 
when they are bad they are more the worse for being the charmers they are. 
Like children they are lively, and happy, if circumstances are right for them, or 
egocentric, imaginative and restless. They take up new activities 
enthusiastically but lack application, constantly needing new interests, flitting 
from project to project as apparently purposelessly as a butterfly dancing from 
flower to flower. To them life is a game which must always be full of fresh 
moves and continuous entertainment, free of labor and routine. Changing 
horses in the middle of the stream is another small quirk in the Gemini 
personality which makes decision making, and sticking to a decision, 
particularly hard for them. 


Since they lack the quality of conscientiousness, they are apt to fight a losing 
battle in any attempts they make to be moral (in the widest sense of the 
word). Their good qualities are attractive and come easily to them. They are 
affectionate, courteous, kind, generous, and thoughtful towards the poor and 
suffering - provided none of the activities resulting from expressing these traits 
interferes too greatly with their own lives and comforts. They quickly learn to 
use their outward attractiveness to gain their own ends, and when striving for 
these they will use any weapon in their armory - unscrupulous lying, and 
cunning evasiveness; escaping blame by contriving to put it on other people, 
wrapped up in all the charm they can turn on. In their better moments they 


may strive to be honest and straightforward, but self-interest is almost always 
the victor. If things go against them, they sulk like children. 

Also like children, they demand 

attention, admiration, and the spending on them of time, energy and money, 
throwing tantrums if they don’t get what they want. They reflect every change 
in their surroundings, like chameleons, and can become pessimistic, sullen, 
peevish and materialistically self-centered if circumstances force them to 
struggle in any way. If the conditions of life become really adverse, their 
strength of will may desert them entirely. They can become uncertain of 
themselves, either withdrawn, or nervously excitable worriers, sullenly 
discontented, hard and irritable, with “Self” looming ever larger in their 
struggles. On the other hand their versatility can make them very adaptable, 
adjusting themselves to control the world around them by means of their 
inherent ingenuity and cleverness. 


Most Gemini have a keen, intuitive, sometimes brilliant intelligence and they 
love cerebral challenges. But their concentration, though intense for a while, 
does not last. Their mental agility and energy give them a voracious appetite 
for knowledge from youth onward, though they dislike the labor of learning. 
They easily grasp almost everything requiring intelligence and mental 
dexterity, and are often able to marry manual skills to their qualities of mind. 
Their intellect is strongly analytical and sometimes gives them so great an 
ability to see both sides of a question that they vacillate and find it hard to 
make decisions. But their intelligence may very well be used to control and 
unify the duality of their natures into a most efficient unit. If faced with 
difficulties, they have little determination to worry at a problem until they find a 
solution - they will pick the brains of others. In their intellectual pursuits, as in 
other departments of their lives, they risk becoming dilettantes, losing 
themselves in too many projects which they follow until they become difficult. 


In love they are fickle, not intentionally so but because of the basic 
inconsistency of their emotional nature, which has an amoral aspect to it. 
Their is a side to Geminians which can become deeply involved emotionally, 
and another, hostile to sentimentality, which stands back from a romantic 
situation, laughing at it and the protagonists in it, including themselves while 
analyzing it intellectually. Gemini subjects take nothing seriously. So, in love, 
in spite of their temporary depth of feeling, for the intensity of involvement 
lasts only while it is new, they are superficial, light-hearted, cool, flirtatious and 
unimaginative in the understanding of the pain they may give others. They like 
intrigue, the excitement of the chase, but once they have caught the prey, 
they lose interest and look around for the next creature to pursue. In less 
serious situations they make witty, entertaining companions, good 
acquaintances rather than friends. Even at their worst they are never dull - 
there is usually playfulness below the surface, and they can be brilliant 
conversationalists - but they can also be quarrelsome, prattlers, boasters, liars 
and cheats. 


Geminians can be successful in many walks of life though their general 
characteristics tend to make them unreliable. They are often skilled 
manipulators of language, in speech and writing, and may be: debaters, 


diplomats (though in politics they are more interested in theory than practice), 
orators, preachers (brilliant rather than profound), teachers, authors, poets, 
journalists, or lawyers. In business any work which combines quick-wittedness 
with a change of surroundings suits them; working as a traveling salesperson, 
brokerage work, or dealing with the public in any capacity is right up their 
alley. Because they are dispassionate, logical, rational and analytical they 
make good scientists, especially in the fields of medicine and astronomy. 
They can also make excellent members of the Armed Forces, for they take 
danger no more seriously than anything else and can earn themselves a 
reputation for devotion to duty and heroic acts. In the arts they may excel in 
music, painting and sculpture. They make good psychic researchers of a 
sceptical kind. Negatively they can degenerate into confidence tricksters, 
thieves and even adepts in the black arts. 


LIKES 

Talking 

Novelty and the unusual 

Variety in life 

Multiple projects all going at once 
Reading 


DISLIKES 

Feeling tied down 
Learning, such as school 
Being in a rut 

Mental inaction 

Being alone 


PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. When 
these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. However, with 
astrology we can examine the problem and assess the proper solution based 
on the sun sign characteristics. AS a Gemini you may see things below that 
really strike home. Try the solution, you most likely will be amazed at the 
results. If you find yourself on the receiving end of the negatives below, it is 
because you are failing to express the positive. 


PROBLEM: Being superficial could be a big problem for you in your overall 
relationships with others and also in getting ahead on many jobs where you 
must endeavor to dig deep and learn something thoroughly. This is the worst 
Gemini trait of all. 

SOLUTION: To make a conscious effort to control this trait is the best 
approach to take to this problem. If you make a commitment to something or 
someone you should mentally force yourself to keep that commitment where 
possible. This will be hard but it can, and has been, accomplished by many 
under this sign. 


PROBLEM: Not one who cares for peace and quiet, you create your own 
problems with loved ones by picking arguments or tale carrying from one to 


the other then stand back and enjoy the show. 

SOLUTION: While this may relieve your boredom, it is something that you 
should not let happen as it could easily go out of control and cost you the love 
and companionship that you desire. When you feel like doing this it would be 
better to take a long walk and let the feelings pass. 


PROBLEM: Boredom is one of your biggest problems and you could easily fall 
into mischief if you do not find ways to alleviate it. 

SOLUTION: You have a great many creative talents and if you put these to 
work for you in some sort of hobby or project you will find you do not have 
time to be bored, also, other physical activities should be considered: 
workouts at the gym, racketball, hiking, etc.. 


PROBLEM: You could have health problems brought on by overindulgence of 
food, drink, or the night life which only gets worse as you age. 

SOLUTION: Tame your urges and save the party times for weekends only 
and then try not to overdo it. By keeping everything down to a mild roar you 
may not have to fight off diseases such as obesity or cirrhosis of the liver. 


PROBLEM: You may have the problem of not being able to keep a spouse or 
a lover due to your pursuit of the opposite sex. 

SOLUTION: Cultivate the habit of not flirting with every attractive person you 
see and make up your mind to be a true and loving spouse, or don’t commit 
until you are really ready to do this. 


Your ruling planet is Mercury 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


While no animal appears to be associated with your sign other than the wolf in 
which is seen to be the nurturing force for another set of ‘twins’, romulas and 
remus. The twins themselves are their own sign representatives. 


The color of choice for Mercury in Gemini is GREEN 


Your starstone is the moss agate. It has been shown to be beneficial to the 

health of Geminis who are suffering from circulatory problems and has been 
shown as an aid to getting your intuitive feelings tuned to a higher pitch. It is 
also an aid to relieving depression. There is another gemstone which is used 
for Gemini and that is the emerald, but the moss agate vibrates to the levels 
of your ruling planet, Mercury, and therefore is much more beneficial for you. 


The Crab 
June 22 to July 22 


Cancer... About your sign... 


The Cancerian character is the least clear-cut of all those associated 
with the signs of the zodiac. It can range from the timid, dull, shy and 
withdrawn to the most brilliant, and famous Cancerians are to be found 
through the whole range of human activity. It is a fundamentally 
conservative and home-loving nature, appreciating the nest like quality 
of a secure base to which the male can retire when he needs a respite 
from the stresses of life, and in which the Cancerian woman can 
exercise her strong maternal instincts. The latter tends to like and to 
have a large family. ‘Nest like’ is an appropriate adjective for the 
Cancerian home, for its inhabitants tend to favor the dark, mysterious 
but comfortable type of house which has something of the air of a den 
about it, a place which belongs to the family rather than existing as a 
showcase to impress visitors. 

That is not to say that the Cancerian is unsociable, just that for them 
there is a time to socialize and a time to be solitary, and this is part of 
the apparent contradiction in their nature. Outwardly they can appear 
formidable - thick-skinned, unemotional, uncompromising, obstinately 
tenacious, purposeful, energetic, shrewd, intuitive and wise, sometimes 
with a philosophical profundity of thought verging on inspiration. Their 
intimates, however, may see a very different character, one with a 
sympathetic and kindly sensitivity to other people, especially those they 
love. They are able to identify with the situations of others because of 
the keenness of their imaginations. They are often over-imaginative and 
prone to fantasy, sometimes trying to shape their lives to fit some 
romantic ideal. They are appreciative of art and literature, and especially 


of drama, where the spectacle and ebb and flow of action and feeling 
particularly excite them. They may themselves possess considerable 
literary, artistic or oratorical talent. Their sharp ears and talent for 
mimicry can sometimes give them success on the stage, though their 
tendency to be emotional may make them overact. Interestingly - 
because they give the impression of being down-to-earth - they are often 
fascinated by the occult and are more open to psychic influence than 
the average. If they can reconcile the personal conflict of their urge to be 
outgoing with the reserve that causes them to withdraw into themselves, 
then at best they can inspire a generation, especially the youthful part of 
it, by their idealism. A job in which they can express this, and in which 
they can do well, would be as a leader in a youth organization. 


In their personal relationships they are mentally a mixture of toughness 
and softness, often emotional and romantic to the point of 
sentimentality in their fantasies; but in real life and in marriage, their 
loving is not so sentimental but tenaciously loyal. Even if they have 
affairs (and they may do so, for the male in particular is open to sensual 
stimulation), their first loyalty remains to spouse and family, of whom 
they regard themselves as the protector. Both the 

Cancerian man and woman love unreservedly, giving much and asking 
little in return 

- in fact, one of the most important lessons they have to learn is how to 
receive gracefully. They are too easily influenced by those they love and 
admire, and swayed by the emotion of the moment. They are also loyal 
friends, the negative side of their faithfulness being clannishness, the 
narrow patriotism of “my country right or wrong”; and closing ranks in 
suspicion and coldness toward outsiders. 


Cancerians have a retentive memory, particularly for emotionally laden 
events which they can recall in detail for years afterwards. they are 
strongly governed by childhood memories and since they live intensely 
in the past in memory and in the future in imagination, a chance meeting 
with someone for whom they had an unrequited love, even if they 
thought they had conquered the feeling, will easily rouse the emotion all 
over again. 


The Cancerian has many potential faults. They can be untidy, sulky, 
devious, moody, inclined to self-pity because of an inferiority complex, 
brood on insults (very often imagined), yet are easily flattered. They can 
be tactless and difficult yet, because they are normally ambitious, they 
will curry favor by floating with majority opinions, outlooks and fashions 
of the day. As a result they often change their opinions and loyalties 
and, indeed, their occupations, and lack stability. They are easily 
corrupted and, because they are convincing romanticizers, can make 
successful confidence tricksters. Their romanticism in another sense 
make them ardent supporters of causes, for example a football team 
with whose heroes they can identify in a world of fantasy. 


Their abilities fit the Cancerian for a wide range of occupations. As they 
are interested in what people are thinking and able to judge what they 
can safely be told, they can be good journalists, writers or politicians, 
though in this last capacity they are more likely to remain in the 
background rather than attain prominent positions of power. They may, 
indeed, change their party affiliations. They can serve in other 
departments of public affairs, especially those which involve looking 
after others, for example in any kind of service from welfare and nursing 
to catering - their own love of comfort and good living makes the 
Cancerian an excellent chef or housekeeper. They sometimes have a 
penchant for trade or business and are often successful as a captain of 
industry. This is because they are excellent organizers with a good 
sense of value and economy which they may combine with a flair for 
inventiveness and originality. The romantic side of their natures make 
them enjoy grubbing about in places where exciting discoveries may be 
made (old stamp collections in attics, etc.), and if they can do this 
professionally as a secondhand dealer or specialist in antiques, they will 
be happy. More common occupations which suit some subjects of 
Cancer are real estate broker, gardener and sailor. 


Physically they are average to below average in height, with a fleshy 
body and short legs in comparison with the rest of them. Their hair is 
usually brown, their faces round, their complexions pale, their foreheads 
prominent, their eyes small and blue or gray in color, their noses short, 
perhaps upturned, and their mouths full. They sometimes walk clumsily. 


LIKES 

Hobbies 

Romance 

Children 

Home and Country 
Parties 

DISLIKES 
Aggravating situations 
Failure 

Opposition 

Being told what to do 


Advice (good or bad) 
PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. 
When these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. 
However, with astrology we can examine the problem and assess the 
proper solution based on the sun sign characteristics. As a Cancerian 
you may see things below that really strike home. Try the solution, you 
most likely will be amazed at the results. If you find yourself on the 
receiving end of the negatives below, it is because you are failing to 
express the positive. 


PROBLEM: You can be oversensitive and something of a clinging vine 
which may cause you to harbor imaginary hurts and slights, this can 
make for highly unsettling conditions with your spouse. 

SOLUTION: Be sure that the love you are expressing is not simply your 
need to hang own to someone for moral support, and if necessary, you 
should seek professional help in order to overcome this negative, 
clinging aspect of your personality. 

PROBLEM: One of your biggest personality flaws, next to neediness, is 
the habit of being so self absorbed that you sometimes fail to notice 
what others are doing and accomplishing in their lives, you feel shut out 
and jealous if a family member has more success than you do. 
SOLUTION: You should make a special effort to change this in yourself 
by forcing yourself to rejoice over their good fortune and when you do 
this you find that it will eventually become a habit and you as well as 
they will be happier for the change. 

PROBLEM: Your inability to take orders without getting angry or upset 
may be another one of your problems and this one could be very serious 
as it affects your chances of earning a good living for yourself and/or 
your family, since you are quite apt to walk away from any job where you 
feel ‘picked on’. 

SOLUTION: Try keeping an ear out and find out how the ones who have 
been on the job for any length of time gets along with the boss and 
coworkers. If you follow his lead or simply decide that you will simply 
keep quiet and follow orders you will soon see how well you can be 
really liked by all concerned. 

PROBLEM: You also have a problem with putting things off until the last 
minute which upsets your family and friends. This also has a tendency 
to make an unpleasant matter even more unpleasant when you 
procrastinate. 

Solution: Make taking care of the business at hand your prime objective 
from now on for, when you do not have all those worries in the back of 
your mind you will find it more pleasant to be around people, and you 
will also find that life goes smoothly for you from then on. 


Your ruling planet is the MOON 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


The crab is a nocturnal water creature that is well equipped with its 
massive claws to defend itself and survives very well in the ‘wilds’ of the 
underwater world in which it thrives. They have also been prized for 
food throughout the ages. Crabs come in a variety of ’styles’ and 
species and are found in most of the oceans of the world, as well as in 
many inland waters. Being a sea scavenger, the crabs help mankind by 
keeping our waters cleaner. 


The color for Cancer is all the shining colors of the moon SILVER 


Your starstone is the beautiful, translucent, PEARL. The Pearl can be all 
the silvery colors of the moon and not just white. The pearl takes on its 


silvery, shimmering, colors from the color of the linings of the mollusc 
(oyster) in which it is grown. A beautiful, perfect pearl can sell for as 
much as $250,000.00, so speaking of a ‘pearl of great price’ becomes 
readily understandable. This precious stone can be harmed if subjected 
to hair spray, acids, perspiration, and some types of cosmetics. 


The Lion 
July 23 to August 22 


Leo.... About Your Sign... 


The Leo type is the most dominant, spontaneously creative and 
extrovert of all the zodiacal characters. In grandeur of manner, splendor 
of bearing and magnanimity of personality, they are the monarch’s 
among humans as the lion is king of beasts. They are ambitious, 
courageous, dominant, strong willed, positive, independent, self- 
confident there is no such a word as doubt in their vocabularies, and 
they are self-controlled. Born leaders, either in support of, or in revolt 
against, the status quo. They are at their most effective when ina 
position of command, their personal magnetism and innate courtesy of 
mind bringing out the best of loyalty from subordinates. They are 
uncomplicated, knowing exactly what they want and using all their 
energies, creativeness and resolution to get it, as well as being certain 
that they will get whatever they are after. Their followers know where 
they are with Leonians. Leonians think and act bigger than others would 
normally dare; the ambitiousness of their schemes and idealism 
sometimes daunt their followers, their practical hardheadedness and 
ability to go straight to the heart of any problem reassures those who 
depend on them. If Leonians meet with setbacks they thrive on the 
adversity. 


On the whole they are powers for good, for they are strongly idealistic, 
humane, and beneficent. They have powerful intelligence and are of a 
broad philosophical, sometimes religious, turn of mind. Those who are 
devout may become very obstinate in upholding traditional beliefs and 
will cling tenaciously, but with complete sincerity, to practices and 
doctrines which liberal thinkers regard as absurdly out-of-date. These 
will be found as the ‘lions’ of industries, and in the forefront of the 
cutting edge of technologies. 


Their faults can be as large in scale as their virtues, and an excessively 
negative Leonian can be one of the most unpleasant human beings 
imaginable, displaying extreme arrogance, autocratic pride, 
haughtiness, and excessive hastiness of temper. If jealously suspicious 
of rivals, they will not hesitate to use cunning, lies and trickery to 
discredit them. Self-centeredness, greed for flattery, boastfulness, and 
bombast, pomposity, snobbish superiority, and overbearing, and 
intolerant disdain of underlings; to whom they will nevertheless delegate 
the carrying out of minor details in their grandiose schemes, and from 
whom they are not above borrowing immoderately if an occasion 
necessitates it. Any of these can be characteristic of Leo. 

Add to them a passion for luxury, a lust for 

power, emotional indulgence, and a character emerges that no one 
would want to know either in public life or private. But their pride may go 
before a fall, as uncontrolled impetuosity is likely to bring them low. 
Fortunately it is rare that a Leo is so undisciplined as to give way 
thoroughly to this list of vices, and their tendencies to them are usually 
balanced by an innate wisdom. Those who are afflicted with them also 
have the intelligence it takes to consciously and actively overcome 
them. 


In professional life they do well at any vocation at which there is room at 
the top. As politicians they are content with nothing less than a powerful 
position in government. In business they may be the chairman of their 
company’s board, or at least directors or managers. They are excellent 
organizers and overseers, often laying the groundwork for new projects. 
If from the artisan ranks of society they will aspire to become the boss, 
partly because they are ambitious by nature, partly because they dislike 
manual labor, preferring to take charge of others doing it. If artistic, Leos 
can become stars of stage or screen (their bent is serious rather than 
light drama), maestros as musicians where they will gravitate toward the 
grand instruments or activities, such as the organ or conducting of 
orchestras and as painters; anything grand in conception and scale 
appeals to them. Leo women make exceptionally good welfare workers. 


In his or her relations with others the Leo type is open, sincere, genuine 
and trusting. Outgoing, spontaneously warm hearted and plain spoken, 
though never lacking in kindliness, Leos are more disillusioned than the 
average if let down by those they trust. They are not good judges of 
character and are inclined to favoritism and an exaggerated faith in their 
followers which too often ends in disappointment. They have a strong 
sex drive and are so attracted to the opposite sex that they find it hard to 
be constant; they can be so intensely sexual as to become dissolute. 
They may have numerous love affairs for their own love of pleasure and 
beauty is liable to drive them from one attractive partner to another. 
They are very much inclined to deceive. Their marriages may fail for the 
same reason, yet they are sincere and generous to their lovers while 
love lasts, and will remain attached to their homes so long as it is run for 
their benefit. They always demand service but are incapable of giving it. 


LIKES 

Speculative ventures 
Lavish Living 

Pageantry and Grandeur 
Children 

Drama 


DISLIKES 

Doing things 
Ordinary,Day to day living 
Small minded people 
Penny pinching 

Mean spiritedness 


PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. 
When these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. 
However, with astrology we can examine the problem and assess the 
proper solution based on the sun sign characteristics. As a Leo you may 
see things below that really strike home. Try the solution, you most 
likely will be amazed at the results. If you find yourself on the receiving 
end of the negatives below, it is because you are failing to express the 
positive. 


Problem: Getting all upset and angry with others when things do not go 
the way you fully expected them too. This kind of reaction to a problem 
is what causes a lot of marital discord and unhappiness. 

Solution: You should never base all of your expectations on what you 
should get, but rather base them on what you can give to, or do, for 
those who are in your sphere of influence. You will find you have a more 
peaceful and happy home if you do this. 


Problem: You are sometimes your own worst enemy, especially so when 
you are striving for attention in such obvious ways that you turn off the 
very people you sought to impress. 

Solution: The first place to start is to stop trying to gain attention; give 
people the chance to notice the real you. Decide what it is that 
impresses you and you will then know what to do to impress others. 
Problem: Egotism, to the extent that you may be the Leo who thinks no 
one is quite as good at things as you are and the people around you are 
made to feel small through your habit of comparison. 

Solution: What the higher minded Leo has is a sense of self worth and of 
greatness, this is corrupted when you let the ego get out of hand so you 
should learn to walk tall by looking up to those that are ‘taller’ than you 
are. 


Problem: Losses in income from unwisely speculating which leads to 
financial ruin, as well as possible personal losses of family and friends 
due to a lack of concern for their financial welfare. 


Solution: You should always investigate all investments well before they 
are made, then talk it over with your spouse as to how hard the budget 
can be hit, before you spend the first dime. 


Your ruling planet is the SUN 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


The male lions are not particularly good hunters, the main work is done 
by the females when the male drives the prey in the direction where they 
are hiding, although the males insist on eating their share before the 
females. Hunting occurs at night or cooler times of day, the hotter hours 
are spent resting in the shade. Only males grow a mane, which can take 
up to 5 years to fully develop. 


The color of choice for Leo is GOLD 


Your starstone is the rich red RUBY 

Known as a stone of nobility. It can improve success in controversies 
and disputes, encouraging gentleness and discouraging violence. 
Excellent shielding stone to protect you from bodily harm. Encourages 
one to follow bliss. 


The Virgin 
August 23 to September 23 


Virgo.... About Your Sign... 

Virgo is the only zodiacal sign represented by a female. It is sometimes 
thought of as a potentially creative girl, delicately lovely; sometimes as 
a somewhat older woman, intelligent but rather pedantic and 
spinsterish. The latter impression is sometimes confirmed by the 
Virgoan preciseness, refinement, fastidious love of cleanliness, hygiene 
and good order, conventionality and aristocratic attitude of reserve. 
They are usually observant, shrewd, critically inclined, judicious, 
patient, practical supporters of the status quo, and tend toward 
conservatism in all departments of life. On the surface they are 
emotionally cold, and sometimes this goes deeper, for their habit of 
suppressing their natural kindness may in the end cause it to atrophy, 
with the result that they shrink from committing themselves to 
friendship, make few relationships, and those they do make they are 
careful to keep superficial. 


But the outward lack of feeling may, in some individuals born under this 
sign, conceal too much emotion, to which they are afraid of giving way 
because they do not trust others, nor do they have confidence in 
themselves and their judgments. This is because they are conscious of 
certain shortcomings in themselves of worldliness, of practicality, of 
sophistication and of outgoingness. So they bring the art of self 
concealment to a high pitch, hiding their apprehensiveness about 
themselves and their often considerable sympathy with other people 
under a mantle of matter-of-factness and undemonstrative, quiet 
reserve. They are still waters that run deep. Yet in their unassuming, 
outwardly cheerful and agreeable fashion, they can be sensible, 
discreet, well spoken, wise and witty, with a good understanding of 
other people’s problems which they can tackle with a practicality not 
always evident in their own personal relationships. 


Both sexes have considerable charm and dignity, which make some 
male Virgoans appear effeminate when they are not. In marriage they 
can be genuinely affectionate, making good spouses and parents, but 
their love making is a perfection of technique rather than the expression 
of desire, and they must be careful not to mate with a partner whose sex 
drive requires a passion they cannot match. 


They are intellectually enquiring, methodical and logical, studious and 
teachable. They combine mental ingenuity with the ability to produce a 
clear analysis of the most complicated problems. They have an excellent 
eye for detail but they may be so meticulous that they neglect larger 
issues. Also, although they are realists, they may slow down projects by 
being too exact. 

They are practical with their hands, good 

technicians and have genuine inventive talents, Thoroughness, hard 
work and conscientiousness are their hallmarks, and they are such 
perfectionists that, if things go wrong, they are easily discouraged. 
Because of their ability to see every angle of a many-sided question, 
they are unhappy with abstract theorizing. Appreciating the many 
different points of view as they do, they find philosophical concepts 
difficult, and they vacillate and have no confidence in any conclusions at 
which they arrive. 


With these qualities, they are better as subordinates than leaders. 
Responsibility irks them and they often lack the breadth of strategic 
vision that a leader needs Virgoans are essentially tacticians, admirable 
in the attainment of limited objectives. Their self distrust is something 
they project on to other people and tends to make them exacting 
employers, though in the demands they make on those under them they 
temper this attitude with justice. They have potential abilities in the arts, 
sciences and languages. Language especially they use correctly, 
clearly, consciously and formally, as grammarians and etymologists 
rather than for literary interests, yet they are likely to have a good 
memory for apt quotations. Although they are well suited for careers in 
machine drawing, surveying and similar occupations, they are better 
fitted for a job in a library or office than a workshop. 


Their minds are such that they need the stimulus of practical problems 
to be solved rather than the mere routine or working to set 
specifications that need no thought. They are careful with money and 
their interest in statistics makes them excellent bookkeepers and 
accountants. They also make good editors, physicists and analytical 
chemists. They may also find success as welfare workers, ministering to 
those less fortunate than themselves. They can be doctors, nurses, 
psychologists, teachers, confidential secretaries, technologists, 
inspectors, musicians, critics, public speakers and writers especially of 
reference works such as dictionaries and encyclopedias. Both sexes 
have a deep interest in history, a feature recognized by astrological 
authorities for at least two hundred years. If they go in for a business 
career their shrewdness and analytical ingenuity could tempt them into 


dishonesty, though they usually have enough moral sense to resist 
temptation. Female Virgoans may find a career in fashion, for they have 
a flair for dress, in which they can be trend setters. In any profession 
they choose the natives of this sign readily assimilate new ideas, but 
always with caution, conserving what they consider worth keeping from 
the past. They love country life but are unlikely to make good farmers, 
unless they can contrive to carry out their work without outraging their 
sense of hygiene and cleanliness. 


Their faults, as is usual with all zodiacal types, are the extremes of their 
virtues. Fastidious reticence and modesty become old-maidishness and 
persnicketiness; balanced criticism becomes carping and nagging; and 
concern for detail becomes overspecialization. Virgoans are liable to 
indecision in wider issues and this can become chronic, turning 
molehills of minor difficulties into Himalayas of crisis. Their prudence 
can become guile and their carefulness, turned in on themselves, can 
produce worriers and hypochondriacs. 


LIKES 

Health foods 
Lists 

Hygiene 

Order 
Wholesomeness 
DISLIKES 
Hazards to health 
Anything sordid 
Sloppy workers 
Squalor 

Being uncertain 
PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. 
When these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. 
However, with astrology we can examine the problem and assess the 
proper solution based on the sun sign characteristics. As a Virgo you 
may see things below that really strike home. Try the solution, you most 
likely will be amazed at the results. If you find yourself on the receiving 
end of the negatives below, it is because you are failing to express the 
positive. 


Problem: Finding yourself frequently alone and unable to keep friends 
for more than a few weeks. 

Solution: Try not to be argumentative over much and the constant 
criticism that Virgos give to their companions are not endearing 
qualities to have. Try to live and let live, they will love you for it. 
Problem: People tend to avoid making close contact with you. 
Solution: Being too preoccupied with health and making it a continual 
topic of conversation. Try to keep your tips and suggestions about 
health and health products to yourself unless asked for them. 


Problem: Dissatisfied with the way your life is turning out; no 
excitement or change to speak of. 

Solution: You may be restricting yourself by reducing your life to a set 
of theories and pigeon-holes. Try to express the positive by first asking 
yourself, Who or what are you serving; are you devoted or are you 
enslaved. Answer those questions and then start a new path that 
includes your true worth. 

Problem: You may feel that your life and your climb to success is a 
steep hill that you may never be able to scale. 

Solution: Try expressing the positive traits of your finely tuned 
analytical reasoning, employing the light touch with employees and 
coworkers, while expressing genuine concern for all; You will find those 
mountains turning into hills that you run right over. 


Your ruling planet is MERCURY 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


The Virgin is the entity that is associated with your sign. The above 
picture is of the grotto in Lourdes, France where the Virgin appeared to 
the children. In the upper right you will see a statute of The Lady. The 
Virgin imparts purity of intent to the actions of the persons born under 
the sign of Virgo. 


The colors for Virgo are GREEN AND DARK BROWN 


Your starstone is the beautiful, SARDONYX. The Sardonyx can be found 
with many different colored bands on it but the one suggested for Virgo 
is that of the reddish brown variety. It is in the quartz family and is 
mined around the world. 


The Scales 
September 24 to October 23 


Libra ....About Your Sign... 


Libra is the only inanimate sign of the zodiac, all the others representing 
either humans or animals. Many modern astrologers regard it as the 
most desirable of zodiacal types because it represents the zenith of the 
year, the high point of the seasons, when the harvest of all the hard 
work of the spring is reaped. There is a mellowness and sense of 
relaxation in the air as mankind enjoys the last of the summer sun and 
the fruits of his toil. Librans too are among the most civilized of the 
twelve zodiacal characters and are often good looking. They have 
elegance, charm and good taste, are naturally kind, very gentle, and 
lovers of beauty, harmony (both in music and social living) and the 
pleasures that these bring. 


They have good critical faculty and are able to stand back and look 
impartially at matters which call for an impartial judgment to be made on 
them. But they do not tolerate argument from anyone who challenges 
their opinions, for once they have reached a conclusion, its truth seems 
to them self-evident; and among their faults is an impatience of criticism 
and a greed for approval. But their characters are on the whole 
balanced, diplomatic and even tempered. 


Librans are sensitive to the needs of others and have the gift, 
sometimes to an almost psychic extent, of understanding the emotional 
needs of their companions and meeting them with their own innate 
optimism - they are the kind of people of whom it is said, “They always 
make you feel better for having been with them.” They are very social 
human beings. They loathe cruelty, viciousness and vulgarity and detest 
conflict between people, so they do their best to cooperate and 


compromise with everyone around them, and their ideal for their own 
circle and for society as a whole is unity. 


Their cast of mind is artistic rather than intellectual, though they are 
usually too moderate and well balanced to be avant garde in any artistic 
endeavor. They have good perception and observation and their critical 
ability, with which they are able to view their own efforts as well as those 
of others, gives their work integrity. 


In their personal relationships they show understanding of the other 
person’s point of view, trying to resolve any differences by compromise, 
and are often willing to allow claims against themselves to be settled to 
their own disadvantage rather than spoil a relationship. They like the 
opposite sex to the extent of promiscuity sometimes, and may indulge in 
romanticism bordering on sentimentality. 

Their marriages, however, stand a good chance of success because 
they are frequently the union of “true minds”. The Libran’s continuing 
kindness toward his or her partner mollifies any hurt the latter may feel 
if the two have had a tiff. Nor can the Libran’s spouse often complain 
that he or she is not understood, for the Libran is usually the most 
empathetic of all the zodiacal types and the most ready to tolerate the 
beloved’s failings. 


The negative Libran character may show frivolity, flirtatiousness and 
shallowness. It can be changeable and indecisive, impatient of routine, 
colorlessly conventional and timid, easygoing to the point of inertia, 
seldom angry when circumstances demand a show of annoyance at 
least; and yet Librans can shock everyone around them with sudden 
storms of rage. Their love of pleasure may lead them into extravagance; 
Libran men can degenerate into reckless gamblers, and Libran women 
extravagant, jealous and careless about money sometimes squander 
their wealth and talents in their overenthusiasm for causes which they 
espouse. Both sexes can become great gossipers. A characteristic of 
the type is an insatiable curiosity that tempts them to enquire into every 
social scandal in their circle. 


In their work the description “lazy Libra” which is sometimes given is 
actually more alliterative than true. Librans can be surprisingly 
energetic, though it is true that they dislike coarse, dirty work. Although 
some are modestly content, others are extremely ambitious. With their 
dislike of extremes they make good diplomats but perhaps poor party 
politicians, for they are moderate in their opinions and able to see other 
points of view. They can succeed as administrators, lawyers (they have 
a strong sense of justice, which cynics might say could handicap them 
in a legal career), antique dealers, civil servants and bankers, for they 
are trustworthy in handling other people’s money. Some Librans are 
gifted in fashion designing or in devising new cosmetics; others may 
find success as artists, composers, critics, writers, interior decorators, 
welfare workers or valuers, and they have an ability in the management 
of all sorts of public entertainment. Some work philanthropically for 


humanity with great self-disciple and significant results. Libran 
financiers sometimes make good speculators, for they have the 
optimism and ability to recover from financial crashes. 


LIKES 

The finer things in life 
Sharing 

conviviality 
Gentleness 

DISLIKES 


Violence 

Injustice 

Brutishness 

Being a slave to fashion 


PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. 
When these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. 
However, with astrology we can examine the problem and assess the 
proper solution based on the sun sign characteristics. As a Libran you 
may see things below that really strike home. Try the solution, you most 
likely will be amazed at the results. If you find yourself on the receiving 
end of the negatives below, it is because you are failing to express the 
positive. 


Problem: Finding yourself frequently trapped in situations that have no 
depth and little value to you or the other person. 

Solution: Try not to pretend feelings you do not have and find a way to 
back gracefully out of a superficial relationship; look before you leap. 


Problem: You find that you do not really like yourself and/or beating 
yourself up over not being able to please another. 

Solution: If you learn how to please yourself without depriving others, 
then you will be able to please someone else. 


Problem: The situations that make you ill at ease is only mildly irritating 
to another. 

Solution: Try to cultivate inner security through spiritual strength and 
awareness. 


Problem: Feeling like you are nothing: your actions being frustrating to 
others. 

Solution: Developing your feelings of self worth by expressing the 
positive in your nature and not letting your elitist, class consciousness 
show. 


Your ruling planet is VENUS 


Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


The symbol associated with your sign is the scales of balance 
representing the balance that you continually seek in your self and your 
life. The scales were also 

adopted by our judicial system to symbolize a balance of fairness in the 
law which is emphasized by ‘blind justice’ holding them. 


The color of choice for Libra is Blue 


Your starstone is the precious Sapphire. The Sapphire is one of the 
most beautiful and sought after gems in the quartz family. It is 
considered good luck in many ways and one of the major healing 
stones. 


The Scorpion 
October 24 to November 22 


Scorpio... About Your Sign... 


Scorpios are the most intense, profound, powerful characters in the zodiac. 
Even when they appear self-controlled and calm there is a seething intensity 
of emotional energy under the placid exterior. They are like the volcano not far 
under the surface of a calm sea, it may burst into eruption at any moment. But 
those of us who are particularly perceptive will be aware of the harnessed 
aggression, the immense forcefulness, magnetic intensity, and often strangely 
hypnotic personality under the tranquil, but watchful composure of Scorpio. In 
conventional social gatherings they are pleasant to be with, thoughtful in 
conversation, dignified, and reserved, yet affable and courteous; they 
sometimes possess penetrating eyes which make their shyer companions feel 
naked and defenseless before them. 


In their everyday behavior they give the appearance of being withdrawn from 
the center of activity, yet those who know them will recognize the 
watchfulness that is part of their character. They need great self-discipline, 
because they are able to recognize the qualities in themselves that make 
them different from other humans, and to know their utterly conventional 
natures can be used for great good, or great evil. Their tenacity and willpower 
are immense, their depth of character and passionate conviction 
overwhelming, yet they are deeply sensitive and easily moved by their 
emotions. Their sensitivity, together with a propensity for extreme likes and 
dislikes make them easily hurt, quick to detect insult or injury to themselves 
(often when none is intended) and easily aroused to ferocious anger. This 
may express itself in such destructive speech or action that they make lifelong 
enemies by their outspokenness, for they find it difficult not to be overly critical 
of anything or anyone to whom they take a dislike. 


They can harness their abundant energy constructively, tempering their self- 
confidence with shrewdness and their ambition with magnanimity toward 
others provided they like them. They relate to fellow workers only as leaders 


and can be blunt to those they dislike to the point of cruelty. In fact they are 
not above expressing vindictiveness in deliberate cruelty. They are too 
demanding, too unforgiving of faults in others, perhaps because they are not 
aware of the shortcomings within themselves, and extravagantly express their 
self-disgust in unreasonable resentment against their fellows. They do, 
however, make excellent friends, provided that their companions do nothing to 
impugn the honor of which Scorpios are very jealous. Part of the negative side 
of the Scorpio nature is a tendency to discard friends once they cease to be 
useful, but the decent native is aware of, and fights this tendency. 


They are fortunate in that their strong reasoning powers are tempered with 
imagination and intuition, and these gifts, together with critical perception and 
analytical capacity, can enable the Scorpions to penetrate to profundities 
beyond the average. They have a better chance of becoming geniuses than 
the natives of any other sign.But charismatic “twice-born” characters such as 
they can sink into the extremes of depravity if they take the wrong path, and 
the intensity of their nature exaggerates their harmful tendencies into vices far 
greater than the normal. 

Rebelliousness against all conventions, political extremism to the point where 
hatred of the Establishment makes them utterly unscrupulous terrorists. 
Brooding resentment, aggressive and sadistic brutality, total arrogance, 
morbid jealousy, extreme volatility of temperament, these are some of their 
vices. At the other extreme is the procrastinator, the man or woman who is 
capable of so much that they do nothing and become indolent and self- 
indulgent, requiring extravagant praise and flattery from those whom they 
make their cronies. 


Being so gifted, they can find fulfillment in many employments. Their inner 
intensity can result in the ice-cold self-control and detachment of the surgeon, 
the concentration of the research scientist, and the heroism of the soldier. Any 
profession in which analysis, investigation, research, dealing with 
practicalities, and the solving of mysteries are relevant, can appeal to them. 
So police and detective work, espionage and counterespionage, the law, 
physics or psychology may attract them, and they can become masters of the 
written and spoken word. They may be most persuasive orators and find 
fulfillment as diplomats or preachers and, if they make the Church their 
profession, their inner intensity can express itself in the spiritual fervor of the 
mystic or the thaumaturgy. 


Scorpio is the symbol of sex and Scorpios are passionate lovers, the most 
sensually energetic of all the signs. For them, union with the beloved is a 
sacrament, an “outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace.”. 
Their overriding urge in loving is to use their power to penetrate beyond 
themselves and to lose themselves sexually in their partners in an almost 
mystical ecstasy, thus discovering the meaning of that union which is greater 
than individuality, and is a marriage of the spirit as well as of flesh. They are 
thus capable of the greatest heights of passionate transport, but debauchery 
and perversion are always dangers, and Scorpios can become sadistic 
monsters of sensuality and eroticism. Their feelings are so intense that even 
when their love is of the highest, and most idealistic kind, they are 


nevertheless frequently protagonists in tragic, even violent romances, “star- 
crossed lovers”. 


LIKES 

Truth 

Hidden Causes 

Being involved 

Work That is Meaningful 
Being Persuasive 


DISLIKES 

Being Given Only Surface data 
Taken Advantage of 
Demeaning Jobs 

Shallow Relationships 

Flattery and Flattering 


PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. When 
these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. However, with 
astrology we can examine the problem and assess the proper solution based 
on the sun sign characteristics. As a Scorpio you may see things below that 
really strike home. Try the solution, you most likely will be amazed at the 
results. If you find yourself on the receiving end of the negatives below, it is 
because you are failing to express the positive. 


Problem: Suffering from an inferior complex where you feel self disgust and 
are disdainful of help from others. 

Solution: You should try to admit that others, as well as yourself, have 
weakness and then practice forgiving those weaknesses until you notice them 
becoming less and less. Unbend and accept that you can be helped in your 
problems. 

Problem: After you get everyone to agree with you and you get your own 
way, you are still not satisfied with the results. 

Solution: Looking deeply within will show you that: having reached the point 
where you have nothing more to want for in a given situation you then realize 
just what you were really after. Look within first. 


Problem: Disruptive marital relations or a breakup with a loved one. 
Solution: You should try not to be scornful of what you perceive as a 
shortcoming in your partners personality and soften up your rigid, unbending 
attitude. 


Problem: The peers in your group begin to avoid you, or drift away when you 
walk up. 

Solution: If you feel persecuted and put upon you will express it in 
conversation, this causes people to be ‘turned off’ of you so try to change your 
attitude or, guard what you say. 


Your ruling planet is PLUTO 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


Bark Scorpion 

“Bark Scorpion” - Centruroides Sculptaurus [Straw- pale yellow in color]is very 
venomous, it is nocturnal and will be found in areas around moisture or 
outside lights where food sources are known to gather such as beetles, 
cockroaches, crickets, moths, or other insects. 

The color of choice for Scorpio is DARK RED TO MAROON 


Your Starstone is OPAL 

Mysterious Opals contain the wonders of the skies - sparkling rainbows, 
fireworks, and lightning, shifting and moving in their depths. Opal has been 
treasured throughout history all around the world. Archaeologist Louis Leakey 
found six-thousand year old Opal artifacts in a cave in Kenya! It is an old myth 
that anyone who does not have the opal as a starstone will be the receivers of 
bad luck should they choose to wear it 


The Archer 
November 23 to December 21 


Sagittarius.... About Your Sign... 


Sagittarians have a positive outlook on life, are full of enterprise, energy, 
versatility, adventurousness and eagerness to extend experience beyond the 
physically familiar. They enjoy travelling and exploration, the more so because 
their minds are constantly open to new dimensions of thought. They are 
basically ambitious and optimistic, and continue to be so even when their 
hopes are dashed. Their strongly idealistic natures can also suffer many 
disappointments without being affected. They are honorable, honest, 
trustworthy, truthful, generous and sincere, with a passion for justice. They 
are usually on the side of the underdog in society they will fight for any cause 
they believe to be just, and are prepared to be rebellious. They balance 
loyalty with independence. 


Sagittarians are usually modest and are often religious, with a strong sense of 
morality, though they tend to overemphasize the ethical codes they follow and 
worship beliefs about God rather than God Himself. This means that, 
negatively, they regard rigid, unloving, intolerant adherence to ritual and 
conventional codes as more important than the truths they symbolize or 
embody. They sometimes pay lip service to religions and political parties in 
which they have ceased to believe because the outward forms satisfy them, 
yet they may not hesitate to switch allegiance in politics or change their 
system of belief if they see personal advantage to themselves in doing so. 


They have both profound and widely ranging minds, equipped with foresight 
and good judgement, and they can be witty conversationalists. They love to 
initiate new projects (they make excellent researchers) and have an urge to 
understand conceptions that are new to them. they think rapidly, are intuitive 
and often original, but are better at adapting than inventing and are at their 
best when working with colleagues of other types of character that 
compliment their own. They are strong-willed and good at organizing, a 
combination that gives them the ability to bring any project they undertake to a 


successful conclusion. Their generosity can be balanced by their extreme 
care at handling their resources. 


Sagittarians are ardent, sincere and straightforward in love, normally 
conventional and in control of their sexual natures. Yet if thwarted, they may 
easily allow their failure to embitter their whole lives or they may revenge 
themselves upon the opposite sex by becoming cynically promiscuous. They 
are more apt then the average to make an uncongenial alliance. 

If their marriages are successful, they will be faithful soouses and indulgent 
parents; but their innate restlessness will inspire them to use even the most 
satisfying ménage as a base from which to set out on their travels. They need 
to fell free and are often faced with the choice of allowing their careers to take 
over their lives at the expense of the love of their spouse and family. 
Sagittarian women are the counterparts of their men; even if they have no 
career to rival their love, they find it difficult to express affection and may run 
the risk of being thought frigid. 


In other personal relationships they are reliable, seldom betraying any trust 
given to them. They can, however, be impulsively angry and both male and 
female Sagittarians know how to be outspoken and exactly what expressions 
will hurt their adversaries most. On the other hand they are magnanimous in 
forgiving offenses and are responsible when looking after the elderly in the 
family. 


Their gifts fit Sagittarians for a number of widely differing professions. They 
are natural teachers and philosophers with a talent for expounding the moral 
principles and laws which seem to explain the universe. This gift enables 
them to be successful churchmen on the one hand and scientists on the 
other. The law and politics also suit them, as does public service, social 
administration, public relations and advertising. Travel and exploration 
naturally appeal to such restless souls and, if their opportunities are limited, 
they may find something of travel and change of scene in the armed forces or 
through working as a travelling salesman. Others may make fine musicians 
and, in the days before automobiles, they were said to be successful at horse 
trading and all activities, including sporting ones, concerning horses. This has 
been translated in modern terms into an interest in cars and aircraft - and 
again with emphasis on the sporting side racing, rallying etc. They are said to 
make good sports coaches, but their tastes in this direction may lead them 
into imprudent gambling, though the gambling instinct may be sublimated by 
carrying it out professionally as a bookmaker. 


The vices to which Sagittarians are prone are anger they tend to flare up over 
trifles; impatience - they want to rush every new project through immediately 
and demand too much of colleagues who cannot work at the pace they 
require; and scorn of the inadequacies of others while expecting fulsome 
recognition of their own efforts. They may in one sense deserve recognition, 
because in completing a major project they will sacrifice their health and 
family relationships; in their family’s eyes they may merit condemnation. 


They can be exacting, domineering and inconsiderate in the work place; and 
boastful, vulgar and extravagant in their private lives. Their restlessness, if 
excessive, can jeopardize more than their own stability. some Sagittarians risk 
becoming playboys, wasting their lives away in frivolous pursuits. Others can 
develop a moralizing, religious fanaticism or else turn into hypocrites, their 
inner prudishness disguised by an outward appearance of joviality. Another 
side of the religiosity which is a danger in Sagittarians is superstition. 


LIKES 

Traveling 

getting to the heart of the matter 
Freedom 

Laws and meanings 

the general ‘feel’ of things 
DISLIKES 

Off the wall theories 

being tied down domestically 
Being constrained 

cooling your heels 

bothered with details 


PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. When 
these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. However, with 
astrology we can examine the problem and assess the proper solution based 
on the sun sign characteristics. As a Sagittarius you may see things below 
that really strike home. Try the solution, you most likely will be amazed at the 
results. If you find yourself on the receiving end of the negatives below, it is 
because you are failing to express the positive. 

PROBLEM: Others have no time for you as you are apt to have too many 
irons in the fire at any given time. 

SOLUTION: Be sure that you have a ‘product’ to match all the ‘advertising’ 
you do. Is it fact or is it fiction? 


PROBLEM: Others cease to confide in you or to take you seriously. 
SOLUTION: Try not to exaggerate or be contentious with others as this could 
be embarrassing if they feel you are not trustworthy. 


PROBLEM: Feeling lost and disillusioned. 

SOLUTION: Focus upon one thing that will satisfy you and work toward that 
point. 

PROBLEM: You seem anchored in one spot, unable to move forward. 
SOLUTION: You should try to think more positive thoughts and set some 
short term goals that you can reach, then set more. In this way you will move 
ahead in your endeavors. 


Your ruling planet is JUPITER 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 
The animal associated with you sign is the centaur. 


The Greek love for the horse led to the ennoblement of the centaur in myth 
and legend. The Centaur Chiron was known for his wisdom and healing 
abilities. Nessus was killed by Hercules for trying to rape a woman under his 
charge, and other centaurs were renowned for their weakness for drink. The 
centaur symbolizes mankinds dual nature as an intellectual creature (the 
human half) which was also a physical animal (the horse half). 

The color of choice for Sagittarius is RICH PURPLE 

Your Starstone is the TOPAZ 

Topaz, the gem comes in many different colors and is a member of the quartz 
group. It aids in bringing forth your leadership qualities and enables you to 
grasp control of any situation you confront in life. Topaz makes you feel more 
in control of yourself or the situations you encounter and helps you deal with 
them in a competent fashion. It helps you take the lead and handle things ina 
competent fashion. Tradition has it that Topaz helped foretell the future, 
enhance sexual energy, and promote harmony. 


The Goat 
December 22 to January 20 


Capricorn... About Your Sign... 


Capricorn is one of the most stable and (mostly) serious of the zodiacal types. 
These independent, rocklike characters have many sterling qualities. They are 
normally confident, strong willed and calm. These hardworking, unemotional, 
shrewd, practical, responsible, persevering, and cautious to the extreme 
persons, are capable of persisting for as long as is necessary to accomplish a 
goal they have set for themselves. They are reliable workers in almost any 
profession they undertake. They are the major finishers of most projects 
started by the ‘pioneering’ signs; with firm stick-to-it-ness they quickly become 
the backbone of any company they work for. 


Capricornians make of themselves, resourceful, determined managers; 
setting high standards for themselves and others. They strive always for 
honesty in their criticism of self, they respect discipline from above and 
demand it from those beneath them. In their methodical, tough, stubborn, 
unyielding way, they persist against personal hardship, putting their families 
and/or their work before their own needs and welfare to reach their objectives 
long after others have given up and fallen by the wayside. In fact when 
practical ability allied with the drive of ambition are required in employees to 
make a project succeed, Capricornians are the people to hire. They plan 
carefully to fulfill their ambitions (which often include becoming wealthy), they 
are economical without meanness, and able to achieve great results with 
minimum effort and expense. Because of their organizing ability they are able 
to work on several projects simultaneously. 


They have a great respect for authority but may not, if they reach high rank, 
be willing to listen to other opinions on things they are directly responsible for. 
As the ranking authority figure in a given situation they expect their underlings 
to be as self disciplined as they themselves are, and to perform every task 
undertaken to the highest standard. 

They are, nevertheless, fair as well as demanding. Among their equals they 
are not always the most pleasant of work fellows for they are reserved and too 


conservative, valuing tradition more than innovation, however valuable the 
latter, and they are often humorless. There is also a tendency to pessimism, 
melancholy and even unhappiness which many Capricornians are unable to 
keep to themselves, especially if they fail personally. In the extreme this trait 
can make them a very depressed individual; ecstatic happiness alternating 
with the most wretched kind of misery which is so subconsciously buried that 
he or she should seek help if such emotions become frequent. For the above 
reason, capable Capricorn should spend many hours in meditation, gathering 
the strength to control such inner emotions. 


The swings in mood are not the only reason some Capricornians deserve the 
adjective based on their name - capricious. They can be surprisingly and 
suddenly witty and subtle for the quiet, reserved individuals they seem to be, 
and they also have a tendency to ruin things by unexpected and utterly 
irresponsible bouts of flippancy. In certain individuals in whom the 
characteristic is strong, the temptation to do this has to be resisted with iron 
self-control. Another unexpected quality in some Capricornians is an interest 
in the occult which persists in spite of their naturally skeptical turn of mind. 


Their intellects are sometimes very subtle. They think profoundly and deeply, 
throughly exploring all possibilities before deciding on a ’safe’ alternative. 
They have good memories and an insatiable yet methodical desire for 
knowledge. They are rational, logical and clearheaded, have good 
concentration, delight in debate in which they can show off their cleverness by 
luring their adversaries into traps and confounding them with logic. 


In their personal relationships they are often ill-at-ease, if not downright 
unhappy. They are somewhat self-centered but not excessively so, wary and 
cautious around people they do not know very well, preferring not to meddle 
with others and in turn not to allow interference with themselves, thus they 
tend to attract people who do not understand them. Casual acquaintances 
they will treat with diplomacy, tact and, above all, reticence. They make few 
good friends but are intensely loyal to those they do make, and they can 
become bitter, and powerful enemies. They sometimes dislike the opposite 
sex and test the waters of affection gingerly before judging the temperature 
right for marriage. Once married, however, they are faithful, though inclined to 
jealousy. Most Capricornians marry for life. 


Their occupations can include most professions that have to do with math or 
money and they are strongly attracted to music. They can be economists, 
financiers, bankers, speculators, contractors, managers and real estate 
brokers. They excel as bureaucrats, especially where projects demanding 
long-term planning and working are concerned, and their skill in debate and 
love of dialectic make them good politicians. They are excellent teachers, 
especially as principals of educational establishments where they have the 
authority to manage and organize without too much intimacy with the staff 
members. If working with their hands, they can become practical scientists, 
engineers, farmers and builders. The wit and flippancy which is characteristic 
of certain Capricornians may make some turn to entertainment as a career. 


Possible Health Concerns... 


Capricorn governs the knees, bones and skin, so its subjects may be liable to 
fractures and strains of the knees and other defects of the legs. Skin diseases 
from rashes and boils to leprosy (in countries where that disease is prevalent) 
are dangers, and digestive upsets may be caused by the tendency of 
Capricorns to worry or suppress emotions. Anemia, Bright’s disease, catarrh, 
deafness, rheumatism and rickets are also said to threaten the natives of this 
sign. 

LIKES 

Reliability 

Professionalism 

Knowing what you discuss 

Firm Foundations 

Purpose 

DISLIKES 

Wild Schemes 

Fantasies 

Go-nowhere jobs 

Ignominy 

Ridicule 

PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. When 
these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. However, with 
astrology we can examine the problem and assess the proper solution based 
on the sun sign characteristics. As a Capricornian, you may see things below 
that really strike home. Try the solution, you most likely will be amazed at the 
results. If you find yourself on the receiving end of the negatives below, it is 
because you are failing to express the positive. 


PROBLEM: Having people take advantage of you and your good nature. 
SOLUTION: Try being more careful with your favors, and putting number one 
first for a change. 


PROBLEM: Having people getting “turned off’ of you. 
SOLUTION: Examine the kind of causes that you have been defending or 
pushing lately; make wiser choices. 


PROBLEM: Coworkers not liking to work along side of you, sharing projects. 
SOLUTION: While you make a good authority figure try not to act like it when 
working in tandem with another as an equal. 


Your ruling planet is SATURN 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


The animal associated with your sign is this beautiful Goat, it is a surefooted 
animal that weighs in at an average of 150-300 pounds and reaching heights 
of 35-45 inches. Due to its hooves, with cushioned skid-proof pads for grip, 
the goat is very agile. This animal has a narrow head with slender, black 


horns that rise in a backward curve to a length of 10-12 inches. The coat is 
white and on the chin is a double beard of long hair. 

The color of choice for Capricorn is BROWN 

and most dark colors 

BLACK ONYX 

The beautiful Onyx is your starstone. Onyx is a type of agate (cryptocrystaline 
Quartz) that is recognized by the alternating, parallel bands of black and 
white. It is used for the carving of cameos, (a figure carved in the white layer 
which stands in relief against the black layer). If the white layer alternates with 
a different color then the agate is given different names: if red it’s carnelian- 
onyx, if brown it is sardonyx, and if the second layer is of the pale shades that 
characterizes common chalcedony it is called chalcedony-onyx. A solid piece 
of pure black Onyx is dyed. Agates are not always dyed black unless it is 
called Onyx, (Agate is frequently dyed red, green, blue, etc.) 


he Water Carrier 
January 21 to February 19 


Aquarius About Your Sign... 

Aquarians basically possess strong and attractive personalities. They fall into 
two principle types: one shy, sensitive, gentle and patient; the other 
exuberant, lively and exhibitionist, sometimes hiding the considerable depths 
of their character under a cloak of frivolity. Both types are strong willed and 
forceful in their different ways and have strong convictions, though as they 
seek truth above all things, they are usually honest enough to change their 
opinions, however firmly held, if evidence comes to light which persuades 
them that they have been mistaken. They have a breadth of vision that brings 
diverse factors into a whole, and can see both sides of an argument without 
shilly-shallying as to which side to take. Consequently they are unprejudiced 
and tolerant of other points of view. This is because they can see the validity 
of the argument, even if they do not accept it themselves. They obey the 
Quaker exhortation to “Be open to truth, from whatever source it comes,” and 
are prepared to learn from everyone. 


Both types are humane, frank, serious minded, genial, refined, sometimes 
ethereal, and idealistic, though this last quality is tempered with a sensible 
practicality. They are quick, active and persevering without being self- 
assertive, and express themselves with reason, moderation and sometimes, a 
dry humor. 


They are nearly always intelligent, concise, clear and logical. Many are 
strongly imaginative and psychically intuitive, so that the Age of Aquarius, 
which is about to begin, is much anticipated by psychic circles as an age in 
which mankind will experience a great spiritual awakening. The Aquarian 
philosophical and spiritual bent may be dangerous in that it can drive the 
subjects into an ivory-tower existence where they meditate on abstractions 
that bear little relevance to life. On the other hand it can help the many who 
have scientific leanings to combine these with the Aquarian yearning for the 
universal recognition of the brotherhood of man, and to embark on scientific 
research to fulfill their philanthropic ideals of benefiting mankind. When some 


cause or work of this nature inspires them, they are capable of such devotion 
to it that they may drive themselves to the point of exhaustion and even risk 
injuring their health. 


Both types need to retire from the world at times and to become temporary 
loners. They appreciate opportunities for meditation or, if they are religious, of 
retreats. Even in company they are fiercely independent, refusing to follow the 
crowd. They dislike interference by others, however helpfully intended, and 
will accept it only on their own terms. Normally they have good taste in drama, 
music and art, and are also gifted in the arts, especially drama. 


In spite of the often intensely magnetic, forthcoming and open personality of 
the more extrovert kind of Aquarian, and of their desire to help humanity, 
neither type makes friends easily. They sometimes appear to condescend to 
others and take too little trouble to cultivate the acquaintance of people who 
do not particularly appeal to them. 

They do not give themselves easily - perhaps their judgment of human nature 
is too good for that - and are sometimes accounted cold. But once they decide 
that someone is worthy of their friendship or love, they can exert an almost 
hypnotic and irresistible mental attraction on them and will themselves 
become tenacious friends or lovers, ready to sacrifice everything for their 
partners and be faithful to them for life. However, they are sometimes 
disappointed emotionally because their own high personal ideals cause them 
to demand more of others than is reasonable. And if they are deceived their 
anger is terrible. If disillusioned, they do not forgive. 


Aquarians work best in group projects, provided that they are recognized as 
having a leading part in them. They have a feeling of unity with nature and a 
desire for knowledge and truth that makes them admirable scientists, 
especially astronomers and natural historians. They may excel in 
photography, radiography, electronics - anything connected with the electrical 
and radio industries - aviation and everything technical. On the arts and 
humanities side their progressive tendencies can be expressed in writing, 
especially poetry, and broadcasting, or as welfare workers and teachers. 
Some have gifts as entertainers and make good character actors (having an 
ability to mimic) and musicians. The more psychic among them possess 
healing gifts, especially in curing the mentally sick. 


Among the faults to which they are liable are fanatical eccentricity, wayward 
egotism, excessive detachment and an inclination to retreat from life and 
society, and a tendency to be extremely dogmatic in their opinions. Aquarians 
can be a threat to all they survey or a great boon for humanity in general. 
Circumstances - for example, continuous opposition to a cause they hold dear 
- may cause the atrophy of the openness of mind that is one of the Aquarian’s 
most attractive traits. They may express a lack of integrity in broken promises, 
secretiveness or cunning. Simmering anger and resentment, rudeness or, 
worse, a tense, threatening silence which may suddenly burst out in eruptions 
of extreme temper, these are all part of the negative side of the Aquarian. This 
can also reveal itself in a sustained hatred for enemies that is capable of 
enlarging itself into a misanthropy toward the whole of mankind. 


Possible Health Concerns... 

As Aquarius is said to govern the legs from knees to ankles and the 
circulation of blood, its natives are susceptible to ailments particularly in the 
legs and ankles, such as cramps, and are also liable to spasmodic and 
nervous complaints, as well as wind, catarrh, diarrhea, dropsy, goiter and 
delirium tremens - so that the avoidance of alcohol is important for those 
Aquarians who have a taste for it. 


LIKES 

Fighting for Causes 

Dreaming and Planning for the Future 
Thinking of the Past 

Good Companions 

Having Fun 

DISLIKES 

Full of Air Promises 

Excessive Loneliness 

The Ordinary 

Imitations 

Idealistic 

PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. When 
these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. However, with 
astrology we can examine the problem and assess the proper solution based 
on the sun sign characteristics. As an Aquarius you may see things below that 
really strike home. Try the solution, you most likely will be amazed at the 
results. If you find yourself on the receiving end of the negatives below, it is 
because you are failing to express the positive. 


Problem: Being left all alone while others enjoy the companionship you long 
for. 

Solution: You should practice expressing your humanity by accepting people 
the way they are and not find too much fault in them. 

Problem: You always seem to miss the boat when it comes to love. 
Solution: Try letting down the mental guard that you keep on your emotions 
that stops you from being the self you long to be. 

Problem: You always seem to miss out on the better jobs or big promotions 
at work. 

Solution: Learn to use your positive side in teamwork and group effort, the 
lone wolf approach will get you nowhere. 


Your ruling planet is URANUS 
Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


The symbol associated with your sign is the water bearer, it is symbolic of the 
Gods nourishing the earth with life giving energies. One of the first to be 
called the water bearer was the Greek God Zeus in mythology. 


The color of choice for Aquarius is TURQUOISE 


TURQUOISE 

The beautiful Turquoise is your starstone. 

The name comes from the French “turquoise”, which means “Turkey” as in the 
original localities in Persia (today Iran). Since before 4000 BC Turquoise has 
been used and coveted. It can be pure in color or may contain secondary 
minerals. If the matrix forms a pattern of interlocking polygons it is called 
“spider-web” turquoise. 


The Fishes 
Febuary 20 to March 20 


Pisces..... About Your Sign... 


Pisceans possess a gentle, patient, malleable nature. They have many 
generous qualities and are friendly, good natured, kind and compassionate, 
sensitive to the feelings of those around them, and respond with the utmost 
sympathy and tact to any suffering they encounter. They are deservedly 
popular with all kinds of people, partly because their easygoing, affectionate, 
submissive natures offer no threat or challenge to stronger and more 
exuberant characters. They accept the people around them and the 
circumstances in which they find themselves rather than trying to adapt them 
to suit themselves, and they patiently wait for problems to sort themselves out 
rather than take the initiative in solving them. They are more readily 
concerned with the problems of others than with their own. 


Their natures tend to be too otherworldly for the practical purposes of living in 
this world as it is. They sometimes exist emotionally rather than rationally, 
instinctively more than intellectually (depending on how they are aspected). 
They long to be recognized as greatly creative. They also dislike disciple and 
confinement. The nine-to-five life is not for them. Any rebellion they make 
against convention is personal, however, as they often times do not have the 
energy or motivation to battle against the Establishment. 


Pisceans tend to withdraw into a dream world where their qualities can bring 
mental satisfaction and sometimes, fame and financial reward for they are 
extremely gifted artistically. They are also versatile and intuitive, have quick 
understanding, observe and listen well, and are receptive to new ideas and 
atmospheres. All these factors can combine to produce remarkable creativity 
in literature, music and art. They may count among their gifts mediumistic 
qualities which can give them a feeling that their best work comes from 
outside themselves, “Whispered beyond the misted curtains, screening this 


world from that.” Even when they cannot express themselves creatively they 
have a greater than average instinct for, and love of, beauty in art and nature, 
a Catlike appreciation of luxury and pleasure, and a yearning for new 
sensations and travel to remote, exotic places. 


They are never egotistical in their personal relationships and give more than 
they ask from their friends. They are sexually delicate, in the extreme almost 
asexual, and most Pisceans would want a relationship in which the partner's 
mind and spirit rather than the body resonated with their own. Unfortunately 
they can be easily misled by a lover who courts them delicately and in 
marriage makes them unhappy by a coarser sexuality than they expected. 
They are nevertheless intensely loyal and home-loving and will remain faithful. 


In their employment they are better working either by themselves or in 
subordinate positions. Their talents are individual in a commercial business or 
similar undertaking. They would be afraid to manage more than a small 
department, worrying always that they would fail in a crisis. They can make 
fair secretaries and bookkeepers. 

Their sympathy equips them for work in charities catering for the needy, as 
nurses looking after the sick and as veterinary surgeons caring for animals. 
As librarians or astronomers they can satisfy their mental wanderlust, and 
their fondness for “faraway places with strange-sounding names” may turn 
them into sailors or travellers. Many architects and lawyers are Pisceans, and 
when the creative abilities are combined with gifts of imitation and the ability 
to enter into the feelings of others, Pisceans find their fulfillment on the stage. 
Their psychic and spiritual qualities can lead them into careers in the church 
or as mediums and mystics. They may find an outlet for their creativity as 
caterers, and are said to make good detectives because they can imagine 
themselves in the place of criminals and understand how their minds would 
work. In technical occupations they are well employed in dealing with 
anaesthetics, fluids, gases and plastics. Because of their lively versatility and 
inability to concentrate overmuch on any one project, Pisceans often 
simultaneously follow more than one occupation. 

LIKES 

Solitude to dream in 

Mystery in all its guises 

Anything discarded to stay discarded 

The ridiculous 

like to get ‘lost’ 

DISLIKES 

the obvious 

being criticized 

feeling all at sea about something 

know-it-alls 

pedantry 

PROBLEMS THAT MAY ARISE FOR YOU, AND THEIR SOLUTIONS 


As with all sun signs, we all have unique traits to our personalities. When 
these traits are suppressed, or unrealized, problems will arise. However, with 
astrology we can examine the problem and assess the proper solution based 


on the sun sign characteristics. As a pisces you may see things below that 
really strike home. Try the solution, you most likely will be amazed at the 
results. If you find yourself on the receiving end of the negatives below, it is 
because you are failing to express the positive. 


Problem: You find yourself being walked on or over in all manner of ways. 


Solution: Try to reorient your thinking and assert yourself in a quiet, reserved 
manner that is more impressive than blustering. 


Problem: Never seeming to have enough money to round out the week with 
much less the month even though your salary is on a par with everyone else’. 


Solution: You are prone to act as if you have more than you actually do and 
tend to spend that which you do not have or need for other things. Forego 
some of the parties and make a strict budget to put yourself on. 


Problem: A strong sense of despair not shared by family and friends, thus 
leaving you with that all alone feeling. 


Solution: You must come out of yourself and open up to those around you, 
you have the power to inspire others making you an important part of the 
human race; take your rightful place. 


Problem: Causing others to be quarrelsome or to walk out on you all 
together. 


Solution: The upstream fish may be pushing too hard for someone to meet 
your ideals and could wind up pushing people right out of your life. Try 
lightning up. 

Your ruling planet is NEPTUNE 


Some more interesting facts about your sign: 


The animal associated with your sign is the fish,(actually two fish swimming in 
different directions). Fish have long been a food staple and it is also 
associated with Christianity as a symbol, the two fishes swimming in opposite 
directions points up the inner tensions of the sign of pisces. 


The color of choice for Pisces is Soft Seagreen. 


Your starstone is the precious Moonstone. They are not brilliant stones, in 
fact, all of the specimens, from the peach and grays to the gem-quality blue 
and rainbow-colored pieces, are soft and translucent. The physical 
appearance of a stone often suggests its spiritual qualities, and moonstone’s 
most important attribute is the ability to assist us in calming and soothing the 
emotions. When one has achieved a state of emotional calmness, this stone 
may be used to open a path to an intuitive understanding of spirituality 


