Discovering Youniverse 


THE MISSING LINK BETWEEN JYOTISH AND SPIRITUALITY 


By Achala Sylwia Mihajlovic 


Table of Contents 


Preface 

Chapter 1 - How Universe Became You-niverse 

Chapter 2 - The Connection Between the Planets and the Chakras... 
Chapter 3 - Movements of Consciousness Through the Zodiac 
Chapter 4 - Nakshatras: the Alphabet of the Soul _ 

Chapter 5 - Evaluating Your Chakras with Vedic Astrology _ 


Chapter 6 - Transforming You-niverse 
About the Author. 


Preface 


om ajriana-timirandhasya 
jfananijana-salakaya 
caksur unmilitarh yena 

tasmai SrT-gurave namah 


Before | start this book | wish to bow down to my Satguru, Paramahamsa Sri 
Swami Vishwananda, as without Guru’s blessing no work can be complete. | also 
wish to express my gratitude to all, who have contributed in any way to this book, 
especially to my husband, Govindadas, who made a beautiful design for it. 


This book is an effect of a long research and long sadhana that was performed 
to understand the true connection between the forces in our outer universe and 
the anatomy of our inner universe. | started to write it down on the day of 
Mula nakshatra in the month of Chaitra, and completed on the day of Punarvasu 
nakshatra in the same month, on auspicious day of Ram Navami and the last day 
of Chaitra Navaratri, the nine nights of Divine Mother. Interestingly, there are only 
three nakshatras in the whole zodiac, which are ruled by goddesses. One of them 
is Mula, another is Punarvasu. | have no doubt that this book could get manifested 
only due to the blessing of Divine Mother, as She herself is the Shakti behind the 
outer universe, and the Shakti of our inner universe. 


The knowledge, which you will find in this book is sacred and it is not only to 
be read, but also to be meditated on. | hope you will find this journey inspiring. 


4 chofta 


Chapter 1 
How Universe Became You-niverse 


“Time is the influence of God.” 
- Srimad Bhagavatam 


The story of universe is as old as the story of time. Space is barren without the 
influence of time. Yet, what exactly is time and how exactly is it defined? 


In Vedas, time is called the glance of God. It is believed that when God casts 
His glance at neutral matter, it becomes agitated and set into motion. This motion, 
the movement in itself, is what defines time. If an object is about to move from one 
point in space to another, the length of this process will be called time. 


Time is in constant movement. We can stand still in space, but we can never 
stand still in time. Yet, the perception of that movement will always be relative, 
depending on our perspective - namely, depending on what will you take as your 
reference point. All of us have learned in school a simple example of time dilation: 
if one person is standing and another is running, the clock of the person, who is in 
movement would go slightly slower. 


Hence, our perspective of time has a direct influence on it. Like a glance of 
God influences the world of matter. 


From physics we can also learn that time is affected by gravitational fields. 
Massive objects bend the space-time fabric causing light to change direction. This 
is because of gravitational time dilation, which indicates that time runs slower near 
the massive object and faster away for a third party observer. 


And what gravity has to do with you, you might ask? 


More than you think. 


Same reality - different perspectives 


Now, when you know, that time is relative and it depends on our perspective, 
as well as on gravitational forces, the good metaphysical question would be: from 
which perspective do you perceive your own space-time called life? 


Or, to be more precise: what exactly affects your perception? 


Same situation happening to two different persons can have for them two 
different meanings, awaken many different emotions and trigger a completely 
different chain of actions and reactions. The different angle of the glance of the 


Creator within us is what makes all the difference. Each of us perceives this vast 
universe of infinite opportunities in totally different manner, and according to our 
own perception we attract its exact manifestations into our lives. 


But did you ever ask yourself, how exactly does it happen? What is the cosmic 
mechanism behind it? 


The science of Jyotish has a good answer to that question. 


The Cosmic Clock 


Think of our solar system as a gigantic Cosmic Clock with the Sun at its centre. 
There are countless combinations of possible formations in which planets can be 
located in reference to one another - hence no moment in time can be the same as 
the other. All planets, including our Earth, are connected to the Sun by the gravita- 
tional forces and rotate around it, once originally set into motion by the Primordial 
Consciousness. 


From perturbation theory we learn that each planet influences one another. 
Some planets have bigger influence on each other, while the influence of others is 
smaller. Sun is the source of life on the planet Earth, so its influence on our planet 
is quite obvious. The Moon has a very strong effect on the water bodies on our 
planet, and the very rotation of our planet, as well as it directly affects our mood. 
When it comes to planets, however, physicists would say, that they have a minimal, 
almost negligible effect on tides on Earth. 


Yet, these “negligible” planetary influences are essential in the science of 
Jyotish. Sometimes an influence, which fails to affect the physical world, can have 
a tremendous influence on our consciousness. 


The nature around us, as well as our bodies, is made of five gross elements: 
earth, water, fire, air and ether. The more condensed is the element, the stronger 
force is needed to move it or cause any change in it. The lighter the element, the 
more sensitive it is, even to the smallest influences, and the easier it is to shape it. 
Beyond those five gross elements there is one more factor according to Vedic tra- 
dition: the consciousness - the sixth element and the subtlest of all. 


Although the subtle gravitational pulls of other planets have surely no influence 
on our physical bodies (besides the Moon and the Sun, of course), their celestial 
influence in an obvious way affects our consciousness. Whether this energy is truly 
a gravitational pull affecting our consciousness or rather a more refined, spiritual 
energy, working on a more subtle level, that is a topic for discussion. Yet, alignment 
of the Cosmic Clock in each moment of our life surely affects us ina very tangible 
and measurable way. 


Vedic astrology is the science of measuring these cosmic influences and their 
manifestations in our consciousness and the world around us. 


It all starts within 


Now, if somebody would tell you, that a gravitational field of Jupiter, which is 
so minimal, that barely even taken into consideration in physics, have a direct influ- 
ence on the quality of your marriage, that would sound rather ridiculous, wouldn't 
it? It was always fascinating for me, how most people just take for granted the fact 
that the planets are influencing our lives in a very tangible way, but very few ask the 
essential question: why? How is it working? 


It all starts within us. On .a subtle, energy level, there is one sacred energy 
Ronst.  Secebaqnnocee a cesreenyeReeescnsenensabeessreseneaceecre Highlighters 
channe| parallel to our spine, through whien ihe cosmic life. force, called prana, is 


state of consciousness. Within this channel there are six sacred energy vortexes, 
six energy stations with their own antennas for receiving the signals from the uni- 
verse, aS well as sending them. These six energy centres correlate to five grosser 
elements and the sixth element, the consciousness. 


They are called the chakras. 


Anatomy of the you-niverse 


Our subtle body is made of countless subtle energy channels, through which 
the cosmic life force, prana, is distributed throughout the different areas of our 
body and mind. These energy channels are called nadis. The main nadi in our 
energy system, which is called sushumna, “the subtlest’, starts at the base of our 
spine and leads straight to the cranium, where the cosmic energy enters us and 
sustains us. This sacred seat of our soul on the top of our head is often represented 
as a lotus with thousand petals and thus is called sahasrara - “the one with thou- 
sand rays”. 


This sacred seat of consciousness is often misinterpreted (and disrespected, 
in a way) in Western tradition by being called the seventh chakra. In fact, when you 
look into Vedas, from which the chakra system had emerged, you would be sur- 
prised to see, that no Upanishad says about seven chakras. All of them are talking 
about six chakras and the ultimate seat of consciousness, sahasrara - yet, sahas- 
rara is not considered the chakra, but rather the seat of the Soul itself. 


When the pure light of consciousness, pure cosmic energy enters into a 
human being through sahasrara, and travels down the sacred sushumna nadi, it 
firstly gets “filtrated” by ajna chakra, the third eye chakra located between our 
eyebrows - the chakra of consciousness. Then it descends into vishuddha chakra, 
throat chakra, representing the element of ether. Then it gets distributed further into 
the heart chakra and element of air. Similarly, it passes down through manipura 
chakra and element of fire, svadhishtana chakra, the element of water, until it 


reaches the root chakra and element of earth. 


The more this pure cosmic energy travels down the sushumna channel, the 
more it gets diluted and condensed, as it is assuming the qualities of particular 
elements on its way. Meaning: the further down it is travelling, the more gross and 
tangible for the senses it becomes. 


So how the planets influence our chakras? 
This is the point, when it starts to get interesting. 


When | started to study the influence of particular planets, zodiac signs and 
nakshatras on our chakras, | had no idea about all the revolutionary discoveries 
that will appear on my way. | had no idea, where my research will take me. But the 
journey turned to be far more exciting, than it seemed in the beginning. 


It all started with the discovery that Sri Yukteshwar, the guru of Paramahamsa 
Yogananda, has made, by connecting each planet in Vedic astrology to one chakra 
in our body - thus connecting the microcosm with the macrocosm. In fact, you 
could imagine your whole subtle body as a miniature of our solar system. Ac- 
cording to Sri Yukteshwar the celestial vibrations of each planet resonate with the 
frequencies of the chakras they are connected to, and thus amplify a certain quality 
within us. Similarly like pure consciousness is filtered through our chakras, the cos- 
mic influences of the planets are filtered and channelled through them, too. 


Now, it is important to note, that chakras are also subtle karma storages within 
our energy bodies. Whichever action you have made, whichever thought you have 
thought, whichever word you have said... Namely, whichever frequency you had 
sent into the universe throughout your countless lifetimes, itis all stored there, in a 
form of the seeds of energy, which are waiting for their Divine time of germination. 
The influences of the planets on exact chakras are simply activating our karma in 
its respective time of fruition, by triggering the exact frequency to get manifested 
in our lives in this way or another. This process is similar to resonance in physics, 
when vibrating system or external force drives another system to oscillate with 
greater amplitude at a specific preferential frequency. 


That is why influence of the great Cosmic Clock won't be the same on each 
one of us. We are all born in different moments of time, which reflect our different 
predispositions, different karmic luggage and different frequencies of our chakras. 
All of that can be seen ina natal chart of a person with the help of Vedic astrology. 
When you have the knowledge of how planets, zodiac signs and nakshatras are 
connected to the chakras, this is where astrology begins to be really interesting. 


When consciousness enters the world 


Faramiahamsa Yogananda has witen: A child is:bom on that day and at that 
nen Ww en fi the cles ie are in matnemalca! naunOny with his nagual karma. 


Although in physics everything is considered to happen randomly, in Vedic 
astrology, we look at every single happening in life as a manifestation of the Divine, 
and thus full of meaning. According to Vedas, no soul comes to Earth at random. 
The soul waits for an exact moment in time, and exact alignment of planets in the 
sky, which is in tune with its individual karma, so it can continue its lessons in the 
world of matter. 


Why the time of birth is so essential? When a child is still in its mother’s 
womb, the gravity and the planetary influences are affecting the consciousness 
and the aura of the child in a very limited way. But when a baby comes out of 
the womb and takes its first breath, that is the moment, when it gets for the first 
time in contact with the external forces of the universe. Now, if you know by ex- 
perience, how strongly planetary forces can affect even the consciousness of an 
adult, imagine how enormous effect they have on a newly born baby and its hyper- 
sensitive energy system, which has met for the first time with so powerful external 
force, leaving the aura of his mother. This leaves a permanent energy imprint in the 
chakras of a child and thus aligns them accordingly to its own individual karma. 


Thus, first meeting of the baby with the universe, shapes its energy system, 
and can cause certain predictable results in the future. 


From universe to you-niverse 


Long, long ago one Divine Consciousness had a desire to become many and 
thus it had descended into the world through the ladder of your own chakras, cre- 
ating its most wonderful piece of art: you. 


Jyotish, Vedic astrology, is in fact nothing else, but studying the movements of 
Divine Consciousness in our own individual lives, as manifested through planets, 
zodiac signs and nakshatras resonating within the chakras of our body. It is an 
ancient science of discovering how your own space-time is formed, where it is 
curved, and where does it gravitate. 


It is discovering you-niverse. 


Are you ready? 


Go to top 


Chapter 2 
The Connection Between the Planets and the Chakras 


The six chakras in our subtle bodies are intimately connected with the cosmic 
forces of the planets in our solar system. During my research on the connection 
between the chakras and the planets | came across many systems connecting 
chakras and planets, that are not correct and that simply don’t work. Once again 
universe had reminded me then, that if we ever want to find the true knowledge, 
we need to learn from those, who are connected to the Source itself - self-realised 
masters. Although spiritual masters rarely bother themselves with topics so mun- 
dane as astrology, the past blessed us with one such a unique, self-realised spiri- 
tual master, who was at the same time a jyotishi: Sri Yukteshwar. 


Sri Yukteshwar, inspired by his Paramguru, Mahavatar Babaji himself (the 
ageless yogi from the Himalayas), wrote once a wonderful book called “The Holy 
Science”, where he very accurately connected the cosmic influences of the planets 
with their corresponding chakras in our subtle bodies. Still, | didn’t take this knowl- 
edge for granted. | tested it thoroughly and made a long research oniit, to find the 
cosmic logic of the Divine Creator behind it. After all, Sri Yukteshwar’s system of 
connecting the chakras and the planets is much different from the traditional ap- 
proach to this topic. Yet, it appeared to be not only much more accurate, but also 
far more logical. 

vukteshwar connected the planets with the chakras in our body on a very easy 


3, Highlig sic lai onion ai heir Cee naan = 
principle. the further the planet is from the Sun, ne lower chakra it represents - as 


But before we start to analyse each chakra and each planet, as well as a 
connection between them, let us first take a short lesson in Sanskrit, so we can 
see, how exactly Vedic seers where perceiving chakras and planets. 


Grahas and chakras 


Graha is the Sanskrit word for planet. Yet, it doesn’t only mean a planet, but 
it is a general name for any celestial body. In Vedic astrology we call a graha not 
just the planets of our solar system, but also the Sun, the Moon and even the 
lunar nodes. And, as no word in Sanskrit has just one meaning, there are several 
different meanings of the word graha, which can help us to understand the topic 
on a deeper level. The word graha means also: “effort”, “prisoner”, “imprisonment”, 


“holding”, “perceiving”, “receiving”. 


If we consider the planets, the grahas, the cosmic storages of universal karma 
in our solar system, we could easily understand, why the ancient seers named 


them with the same word like “imprisonment”. Our own karma is what is impris- 
oning our consciousness in the illusion, the great maya, and what makes us the 
prisoners of our own fate. The more we are in the illusion, the less clear is our 
perception of the world around us and the less capable we are to receive the Divine 
energy in its purest, unadulterated form. Grahas act as the agents of the Divine law 
of karma and channel the pure cosmic life force to manifest in our lives according 
to the Divine plan. 


Not without a reason graha means “effort”, as well. If a person tries to alter 
this powerful cosmic influence by the science of meditation, like Atma Kriya Yoga, 
it requires a tremendous effort from our side, as in that process we need to trans- 
form our “inner planets”: the chakras - which literally means to escape the gravity 
of the material energy, to a certain extent. Not without a reason grahana means 
“attraction, gravity”. The celestial forces in the sky are defined by their gravitational 
attraction, and that is their biggest power. 


Chakra on the other hand means “a wheel”. Chakras are vortexes of con- 
sciousness located in our subtle spine, sushumna, which are vibrating with differ- 
ent frequencies. These are own inner “wheels of time”, gears in a Cosmic Clock 
hidden in our subtle body, each responsible for their own “department” - yes, 
“department” is one another translation of the word chakra. Chakra can also mean 
“a realm”. Each of our chakras hides, indeed, a different realm within itself, and 
from the level of each chakra, we would perceive the reality completely differently. 
Ultimately, if we believe the Vedic science, the vibrational frequency of our chakras 
determines our reality. 


Distant planets 


One interesting thing that you will notice in Vedic astrology is that it doesn’t 
take into consideration so distant planets like Neptune, Pluto or Uranus. There are 
many reasons behind that. Uranus, the closest of these three, is 2.57 billions kilo- 
metres from Earth - itis more than two times the distance between Earth and Sat- 
urn, the farthest planet visible by human eye. This makes the influence of Uranus 
and other distant planets almost negligible when it comes to an individual person. 


The fact that any planet is rotating around the Sun doesn't actually make them 
influence us. Not without a reason in original Vedic system we analyse the positions 
of only nine planets - because only these are visible by naked human eye, showing 
us the borders of human perception and universe's influence on us. 


Do you remember, how in previous chapter we were talking about time? Ac- 
cording to Vedic science, time, the movement in the world of matter, happens when 
the great Creator casts His glance upon it. And as the miniature of the great Creator 
is present within each one of us, in the form of our individual consciousness, there 


is a similar power hidden within us: wherever our eyes can reach, wherever our 
attention goes, there life and creation happens. It is therefore very understandable, 
why only the planets, which are visible by naked eye, are considered to have a 


strong impact upon our lives. 


Distant planets have, however, some effect on our collective consciousness, 
which will be easier for you to understand, after we will analyse each planet and its 


connection to the chakra system. 


Chakras and nervous system 


Our chakras are also deeply connected to our nervous system. The more they 
are studied, the more obvious becomes the connection. Chakras are symbolically 
represented in the Vedas as lotuses, each having different number of petals. If you 
sum up all the petals of all chakras, you will receive a number 50, which is the exact 
amount of the most important nerves (25 main pairs of nerves in the spine) con- 
necting spinal cord with the specific regions of the body. In our subtle body, these 
50 petals represent 50 different frequencies, 50 energy channels, represented by 
50 letters of Sanskrit alphabet (more about this topic a little bit later). Thus, our 
physical body is an imperfect reflection of our subtle body and its forces acting in 
the world of matter. 


Each of the chakras, except ajna chakra, represents also one of the five 
elements and one of our sensory organs, through which our interaction with the 
universe happens. 


You will notice, as well, that each chakra is assigned to two zodiac signs. This 
represents the dual nature of our being, the feminine and the masculine within us. 
This duality is present in our nervous system in the form of two hemispheres in the 
brain, while in our subtle body it takes the form of two energy channels, which go 
parallel to sushumna: ida, the Moon nadi and pingala, the Sun nadi. The feminine 
and the masculine sign assigned to a chakra represents how the energy of this 
chakra is manifested on internal level (feminine) and how it is manifested on exter- 
nal level (masculine). 


On the picture below you can see how our chakras along with sushumna, ida 
and pingala nadis are located in our body: 


To understand the nature of each planet in a better way, we will also shortly 
discuss a debilitation place and an exaltation place of each planet. In the language 
of astrology we say that the planet is debilitated, when it occupies such a zodiac 
sign and such a nakshatra, which supports its energy in the poorest way. By exalta- 
tion place we mean such a place in the zodiac, where the planet gets its maximum 
strength. Exaltation place of any planet is always exactly opposite the debilitation 
place of that planet. 


Are you ready to go on a journey through your inner you-niverse? 


Fasten your seatbelts. 


Planets, chakras and zodiac signs 


pzp<pam>rate 


Cancer 


Gemini 


Taurus 


Aries 


Pisces 


Aquarius 


ee 
( tlerh / Sain ) 
a? 
Cicicuty ® 


Yas 53 
vw 


wea 


y 


M Veiuii > 
4 
2 ag 


pt yen 
ZS Maes 


M ANIPURA 


“4 ¢ ™ 


rN 
C itei? 


SVADHISTHANA 5 


MULADHARA 


Leo 


Virgo 


Libra 


Scorpio 


Sagittarius 


Capricorn 


Oe ee ee 


Ajna chakra 


Third eye chakra 
Moon | C) Sun Libra XO} Aries 
Cancer 9 Leo Scorpio Kt Taurus 


Third eye chakra is located between the eyebrows, and according to yogic 
tradition, it is also deeply connected with medulla oblongata and pineal gland in 
our physical body. It is not connected to any of the five elements, as it is the seat 
of “sixth” element: the consciousness itself. Since it is not connected to any of the 
elements, it is neither connected to any of the senses. Consciousness, which has 
its seat in ajna chakra, is what is directing our senses and controlling them. This is 
why all the ancient yogic traditions stress the importance of awakening this sacred 
energy centre between our eyebrows, as it unlocks the true potential of human 
being, which is far higher than just being the slaves of our senses. 


Ajna chakra is also the place, where the individual consciousness, the Soul, 
communicates with the Divine - the Higher Consciousness. It is here, where in- 
tuition in its highest form gets manifested, and the connection to the inner Guru, 
inner guidance is awakening. When a spiritual seeker has a true, self-realised guru, 
it is here, in the ajna chakra, where the guru can communicate to the disciple, no 
matter the distance. This communication and inner guidance may often happen in 
a dream or in meditation. Not without a reason the mantra for this chakra is orri, the 
primordial sound of the universe, which is at the same time connected with naksha- 
tra Punarvasu, the nakshatra of Jupiter - the Cosmic Teacher. 


Ajna literally means “to give orders”. From this spiritual centre in our subtle 
bodies, our individual consciousness receives “orders” from the Higher Conscious- 
ness, and passes them further to the lower chakras. Ajna can also mean “unlimited 
power” and “authority”. This name, indeed, beautifully describes the quality of this 
chakra, which is the seat of consciousness, but also the mind, the personality and 
the ego - all that we identify with. In our natal chart the energy of ajna chakra is rep- 
resented as the Sun and the Moon. 


Ajna is the only chakra connected to two planets. Two luminaries, to be more 
precise, without which the life on Earth wouldn't be possible at all. All ancient 
traditions were calling the Sun, the Father, and the Moon, the Mother. In the light 
of modern science this couldn’t be more accurate. The light of the Sun and its 
warmness is indeed infusing the Earth with creative energy and sustains our life 


here. But not everyone knows, that without the Moon, most likely there wouldn't be 
any life on Earth, either. It is our Moon's gravitational influence that helped ensure 
that Earth's spin axis and climate remained stable over long timescales, which is 
essential for the life to survive on our planet. As much as the influence of the Sun 
impregnated the Earth with life, the influence of the Moon preserves it. Thus the 
influence of Sunis active, masculine and inspiring, while the influence of the Moon 
is passive, feminine and nourishing. 


There is also something special about the distance between Sun, Earth and 
Moon, which is already mentioned in the Vedas. The diameter of the Sun is about 
108 times that of the diameter of Earth. The average distance between the Earth 
and the Sunis 108 times the Sun’s diameter. The average distance from the Earth 
to the Moon is about 108 times the Moon’s diameter. This is actually why the Moon 
appears the same size as the Sun during eclipses. Dr. Manoj Chalam made a hy- 
pothesis, that “the ratio of 108 may be the key to finding planets hospitable to life 
outside of our solar system” and suggested that we just need to “look toward this 
same size and distance relationship”. 


There is an obvious sacredness about number 108. Not without a reason it 
is mentioned several time in Vedas. It is also a very important number in Vedic 
astrology. In the science of Jyotish there are 27 nakshatras, 27 lunar houses work- 
ing behind the solar zodiac of 12 signs. Each nakshatra has four quarters, called 
padas. This gives 9 quarters per one zodiac sign. 9 x 12 = 108. By dividing the main 
natal chart into nine parts, we receive so called navamsha, the most sacred chart to 
study in Vedic astrology, which is revealing the true path of our soul in this lifetime. 


108 is indeed the number of our soul. Ajna chakra is where the purest manifes- 
tation of our soul, the consciousness, is seated. 


Sun and the Moon represent masculine and feminine principles of our con- 
sciousness. They are directly connected to the opposite hemispheres of our brain, 
as well as to two opposite energy channels mentioned before, ida and pingala. It is 
here, in third eye chakra, that ida and pingala finally unite and finish their journey. 
These two energy channels end in ajna chakra, unlike sushumna, which carries us 
further to cranium, sahasrara. 


When Higher Consciousness descends through sahasrara and then enters 
third eye chakra, it experiences its first splitting into two opposite energies, mas- 
culine and feminine. These two opposites are represented by two petals of ajna 
chakra, the energies of the Sun and the Moon. Here, in ajna chakra, the conscious- 
ness manifests in its purest form. That is why the mantra of this chakra is orri, the 
primordial sound of the Divine. Mantra orri is also very deeply connected with the 
Sun, which we are going to discuss a bit later. 


The strong connection between the Sun and ajna chakra is visible even 
through iconography. The beautiful metaphor of consciousness acting through our 
senses in the world of matter can be found in Bhagavad Gita, where this sacred 
energy centre is likened to Bhagavan Krishna (Supreme Consciousness and a 
Supreme Guru) leading a chariot (the body) of Arjuna (the observer, the individual 
self), which has five white horses, representing our five lower chakras, five ele- 
ments and five sensory organs. One of the names of Krishna is “Gopala”, which is 
traditionally translated as “the one, who protects and guides the soul’, “the knower 
of the soul” or “shepherd of the cattle of our senses”. Yet, “go” in ancient San- 
skrit can also mean “the Sun’, “the Moon” and even “sushumna nadi”. Bhagavan 
Krishna is thus a Cosmic Shepherd and a Supreme Protector of the journey of our 


consciousness through the sacred channel of sushumna. 


Sun has a very similar iconography in the Vedas. It is represented ona splen- 
did chariot with seven horses, each of a different colour. This represents not only 
seven rays of the Sun, but also seven sacred energy channels in our subtle bodies, 
out of which one is sushumna nadi, and two others are ida and pingala. 


Sun is the consciousness in us manifested through its masculine principle. In 
zodiac Sun rules the masculine sign of Leo. It is our vision, creativity, self-expres- 
sion and shining our own light. It is about being active, about giving and about 
drawing forth the maximum of our inner light into the world. But Sun is also our 
personality, ego and individualism. Hence, although its light can be life-giving, it 
can also burn and destroy. That is why Sun is exalted in the sign of Aries, the sign 
of individuality, and it is debilitated in the sign of Libra, sign of cooperation, where 
its light and individuality needs to be adjusted to the earthly conditions. All planets 
in Jyotish have this shadow side, this alter ego, which needs to be balanced. After 
all, in Vedic mythology Sun had two wives: Samijna (“consciousness”) and Chaya 
(“shadow”). The bright side of the Sun are the qualities of our soul, while its shadow 
side is its strong ego. 


Moon, on the other hand, is the feminine manifestation of our consciousness. 
In zodiac it rules the feminine sign of Cancer. It is sensitive, gentle, nourishing, 
cooling, passive and changeable. It is our mind, our heart and our intuition. It is 
more about dreaming, relaxing, receiving and providing security and nourishment. 
That is why Moon is exalted in the sign of Taurus, sign of material security, and it 
is debilitated in the sign of Scorpio, the sign of constant changes and sudden ups 
and downs. The phases of the Moon represent our changeable mind and emotions, 
which are ultimately seeking stability, peace and comfort. 


Through the state of the Moon and the Sun in our natal chart, we can under- 
stand, whether masculine or feminine side of our personality is more developed. 
When the Sun’s energy is overly dominant, then the person will lack certain amount 


of sensitivity and emotional intelligence, as well as will often have a really big ego. 
Whereas when the Moon’s energy is too strong, such a person can be too emo- 
tional, too much of a day-dreamer, as well as lack a certain sense of direction in life. 


When ajna chakra is generally to dominant over other chakras, the person will 
often lack certain grounding in life. Such a person might have wonderful ideas and 
even a Clear vision, but lack of grounding to actually take the idea and realise it in 
life. These people will also stay too much in the world of spirituality and tend to run 
away from the real world. If, however, the third eye chakra is too much undevel- 
oped, the person will lack a connection with the spiritual world, intuition, and will 
develop a very materialistic mind. 


Scientific meditation, such as Atma Kriya Yoga, which combines the science of 
the sound, mantras, breathing and yogic techniques, is an ideal remedy for every- 
body who wishes to balance their third eye chakra - and, in fact, any other chakra, 
as lack of balance in any chakra leads to lack of balance in other chakras. Atma 
Kriya Yoga, as given by my Gurudev, Paramahamsa Vishwananda, and Mahavatar 
Babaji, is both very grounding, and at the same time reconnecting us with the 
source of Divine consciousness within us, so we can truly shine the Divine light - 
like the Moon reflects the light of the Sun. It purifies our minds and egos by spiri- 
tualising our thoughts and our very own breath. In fact, Atma Kriya Yoga, and the 
way these sacred techniques are designed to uplift us spiritually, is an extremely 
interesting topic, when looked upon from the perspective of Vedic astrology. But 
we will come back to that topic in next chapters. 


Now, prepare to descend into the realm of your throat chakra. 


Vishuddha chakra 
Throat chakra 


Mercury 


9 
© 


ether 


; Virgo 9 Gemini 
vilililMfa ° Pisces [{ virgo 


harh Ss 
Mes 


Vishuddha chakra is located at the base of our throat and it is directly con- 


nected with our organs of hearing and speaking. This region is ruled by the element 
of ether and the planet Mercury. It is all about communication, expression and fast 
exchange of energies. 


According to Vedic science, the space, in which atoms are moving, is not 
empty - it is filled with akasha, or ether, a non-substantial fifth element, which 
connects literally all that is. Akasha, the fifth element, is connected to all informa- 
tion that ever was, is and is going to be, at any time. Past, present and future are 
present simultaneously within the element of ether in the form of akashic records. 


Through our throat chakra we can connect to this “cosmic radio”, or akasha- 
vani, which is also called “the voice from the sky”. This is where many geniuses in 
the past were taking their inspiration from. Throat chakra is the chakra of creativity, 
intellect and Divine inspiration in their purest form. It is the chakra of communica- 
tion, where the eternal dialogue between the Divine and the Universe is happening. 
Each word we say and each thought we think is an outer expression of that sacred 
dialogue. 


Mercury, which is connected to our throat chakra, represents our intellect. 
Only when the intellect is pure, and the mind still, like in meditation, the Divine 
inspiration can be received. This is the lesson that we learn in the realm of throat 
chakra. Although the energy can travel through the ether with the speed of light, it 
is not the movement that holds the true secrets, but the stillness, which allows us 
to observe this movement and to receive the right information. Similarly, only when 
we become more silent in our words and thoughts, we can tap into the Source of 
inspiration itself. 


Here, in the realm of throat chakra, we also discover, that depending on which 
vibrations we send through the ether, which frequencies do we send into the world, 
we can create, sustain or destroy. Here we learn, that our words have enormous 
power, and they indeed do not only affect our reality, but also the reality around us. 
Everybody remembers the famous experiments of Masaru Emoto and water parti- 
cles reacting differently to different words, intentions and vibrations. On the level of 
throat chakra we learn, that not only the words we speak affect the reality around 
us, but also our thoughts and intentions. More than that: we ourselves are affected 
by trillions of different vibrations in each moment in time. Remember, throat chakra 
is also about fast exchange of energy. Here we learn, how important is the quality 
of the frequencies we receive into our microcosm. But even more important is the 
quality of the vibrations that we send into the universe, as they are being saved 
in our personal akashic records and thus determine our future. “We reap what we 


sow . 


That is why it is essential for every person, who wants to improve their 
throat chakra, to control their thoughts, and even more than that: to control their 


tongues. Whenever the throat chakra is very weak, the person will have a problem 
with self-expression, which would lead to many misunderstandings due to lack of 
harmonious flow of communication through the element of ether. This would affect 
negatively both sense of speech of the person, as well as sense of hearing, both on 
psychological and physical level, and in some cases it can affect negatively even 
intellect itself - as intellect is all about connecting things. 


On the other hand, when throat chakra is too strong in comparison to other 
chakras, such a person may have a tendency to over-intellectualize everything, cal- 
culate too much, and compartmentalize too much. A negative planetary influence 
on throat chakra can also cause a person to gossip and speak ill about others, or 
even curse. 


Interestingly, vishuddha means “the purest one” or “the great purifier’. Intellect 
can be indeed a great purifier. But even greater purifier is our power of voice, which 
we receive in the throat chakra. This power is abused too often in our times. Yet, 
the very same power can actually purify us. Great souls, like Mahatma Gandhi, 
were purifying their throat chakra through observing silence once a week. This is 
indeed a powerful spiritual practice and a powerful remedy for vishuddha chakra. 
Yet, even more powerful remedy for enhancing throat chakra, which is using this 
chakra’s very own power, is the practice of chanting the mantras. 


Through yogic science of chanting the mantras, as taught in Atma Kriya Yoga, 
we do not only purify our throat chakra, but all our chakras, and the seeds of karma 
stored in them. Sanskrit mantras are God-designed spiritual vibrations, which have 
the power to attune our whole energy system to exact frequency. These sacred 
mantras, if practiced diligently, can even completely alter the powerful cosmic in- 
fluences, and have the power to purify us of all our karma. The very same power 
of ether, through which our consciousness connects and communicates with the 
world of matter, can be thus used for communication with the Divine, the Source of 
All, and purify us, by infusing our whole energy system with higher vibrations. 


This very book and all the knowledge present in it is a result of the knowledge 
received through the throat chakra. Although it required along intellectual research 
and digging deep into scriptures, the most profound insights came to me in 
meditation, in the soy of eiystalised knowledge. all : wes jooing was meditation 


knowledge came as a “side effect’, a blessing from the universe, which simply, 
connected my individual intellect with exact information already present in akashic 
records. 


Interestingly enough, the 16 mantras inscribed on the 16 petals of throat 
chakra are mostly vowels - sounds of consciousness, which are the source of 
power in any language. (You will read more about this topic in fourth chapter.) 


Although it would be possible to imagine the language without consonants, it is 
rather hard to imagine a language without vowels. Vowels are also the very first 
sounds we learn to make as babies. Thus, the consciousness of a baby, before it 
learns the consonants, is from the level of the throat chakra - from the level of pu- 
rity of the ether element. 


Mercury, the celestial representative of our throat chakra, interestingly, is 
exalted in its own sign, Virgo - the sign, where intellect gets a form. On the other 
hand, it is debilitated in the sign of Pisces, the sign of the formless Spirit - as this 
is a realm into which even the powerful intellect cannot take us. Yet, interestingly 
enough, you will find quite a few geniuses with debilitated Mercury, who made 
most of their discoveries through connecting to this “void”, akasha, represented by 
the sign of Pisces, and derived their inspiration from there. Sometimes to under- 
stand the deeper meaning of debilitated and exalted planet it is essential to first 
understand its connection with our subtle body. 


Mercury rules the masculine sign of Gemini and the feminine sign of Virgo. 
Masculine energy represented by Gemini manifests in our throat chakra through 
curiosity, willingness to interact with people, fast exchange of information, creativ- 
ity and spiritual search (as it resides in the ascending cycle of the zodiac). Feminine 
energy represented by Virgo manifests in our throat chakra through the power 
to understand, organize, compartmentalise, restrict, bring into balance, purify and 
heal (as it resides in the descending cycle of the zodiac). 


Let us now descend into the realm of heart chakra and the element air. 


Anahata chakra 
Heart chakra 


Taurus 9 j Libra 


Virgd | Pisces 


Heart chakra is one of the most mysterious regions within us. Here the desire 
is born. Not without a reason the first mantra of the 12 written on the petals of the 
heart chakra is karri- the desire mantra. It is here, where consciousness is getting 
enriched with the desire - desire to Love. 


In Vedic tradition it is believed that each desire is just a mere reflection of 
this primordial desire of Cosmic Beloved imprinted in the core of every soul: the 
desire to experience the Divine Love through the romance with the universe, and 
searching for a final reunion of the Soul and its true Beloved. Being ignorant of this 
primordial desire of our soul, we search for fulfilment and love in many different 
places throughout our countless lifetimes, not being aware that it is the Divine Love 
that our Soul is truly hungry for. 


As Venus is the planet connected to the heart chakra, its journey throughout 
the zodiac is a true metaphor of the evolution of our understanding of Love. In the 
beginning of zodiac Venus behaves very immature, tends to think only about itself, 
and considers its own comfort and pleasure as the highest expression of Love, the 
most desired thing to get. In the middle of its journey Venus is debilitated in the 
sign of Virgo, when it feels tired, hurt, and dissatisfied with the perishable Love, 
which the world has to offer. And from that point Venus starts to slowly rise and 
understand, what true Love really is, until it reaches its exaltation point in Pisces - 
the sign, where Venus realizes that the only true Love is the Divine Love. 


Heart chakra is truly the chakra of Love and our Soul’s path towards its Cosmic 
Beloved. Empathy and compassion are born here. But it is also the seat of our end- 
less desires. Like our physical heart, the heart chakra sometimes contracts, and 
sometimes relaxes. When it gets into contact with greed, manipulation, attachment 
and callousness, it contracts, and we can literally feel how we shrink inside - that 
is represented by the Venus debilitated in the sign of Virgo, the sign of restriction. 
When, on the other hand, we release our heart from all the feelings of being hurt, 


regret, bitterness, and we finally stop to calculate and let go, our heart opens up, 
expands, and becomes more compassionate, forgiving and spiritualised - that is 
symbolised by Venus exalted in the sign of Pisces. 


In heart chakra we meet another person and God Himself on the most intimate 
level of feelings and emotions. You will notice in next chapters that Cosmic Heart 
Chakra consists mostly of those nakshatras, which symbolize the most private 
spheres of our life. Interesting thing is that Venus also gets its maximum strength 
in any horoscope, when it is placed in the fourth house: the house of our most hid- 
den, most intimate sphere of life. Whenever we speak about something, that really 
touches us, we tend to actually put our hand on our hearts. Whenever any change 
in our emotions happens, whether we get frightened, or really joyful, our heartbeat 
is the first that reveals that. 


In the heart chakra we meet with Love itself and we discover all its different 
facets, until we reach its very essence. Through countless relationships and count- 
less lifetimes we learn, what Love truly is. Sometimes Love brings us joy, some- 
times it brings us pain. But even every scar, every feeling of pain and regret are 
bringing us closer to understanding Love’s true nature. They teach us the great 
difference between Love and attachment. Indeed, one of the most important life 
lessons that we learn in the realm of heart chakra is to let go of all attachments and 
all expectations, as that is the only thing that will set our heart free and purify it from 
all bitterness, pain and regret. Only, when we learn this unconditional, unattached 
Love, when our heart gets “exalted” like Venus in the sign of Pisces, we unlock our 
heart's true potential of all encompassing Love and forgiveness - the most trans- 
formative force in the world. 


It is also here, in the heart chakra, where the feminine and masculine within us, 
in the form of subtle channels ida and pingala meet for the second time. These two 
opposite nadis start their journey in our root chakra, they finish it in the third eye 
chakra, and they meet on the half way in the heart chakra, which reflects the cos- 
mic energy of Venus. Here, on the level of heart chakra, we learn how to perceive 
the Spirit through the energy of Divine duality. That is why heart chakra is the seat 
of Love, as Love can only exist as long as there is the distinction between “you” 
and “me”. 


In fact, if we would analyse the importance of the planet Venus in Jyotish, we 
would see that this is truly the planet of our soul’s path. Not without a reason so 
many spiritual teachers and so many spiritual traditions say: “Dive into your heart, 
as God is present there.” They don’t say: “Open your third eye chakra”. They say: 
“Live from your heart.” Venus is the last planet, that reaches its exaltation point 
in zodiac, in Revati nakshatra - the nakshatra of the journey and finding our final 
destination. It is through our heart that the Divine is guiding us silently on each step 
of our lives. And this journey in itself is nothing else but the journey towards the 


Divine Love, as it is the true samadhi, the true ecstasy of the soul - and our soul’s 
true nature. 


Heart chakra is also the seat of Divine creativity, which is another quality 
of Venus. Even modern science starts to discover that our emotions are actually 
shaping the world around us. HeartMath Insititute made an extensive research on 
the heart and its refined nervous system, as well as its influence on shaping the 
reality around us. And they made some fascinating discoveries. In fact, our heart all 
the time keeps sending messages into the world through its powerful electromag- 
netic field, which is many times bigger than that of our brain. Not without a reason 
heart is the first organ that gets created in an embryo in a prenatal phase. 


Venus rules in zodiac the feminine sign of Taurus and masculine sign of Libra. 
The feminine qualities of our heart chakra represented by Taurus are security, 
pleasure, attachment and desire, while masculine qualities of our heart chakra 
represented by Libra manifest us the need to balance things, beautify them and 
establish harmony. After all, isn’t it Love, through which we learn the ultimate bal- 
ance between giving and receiving? 


Yet, although we have already written so much about the heart chakra, you 
may notice how hard it is to define it. Venus, like Love itself, is beyond any definition 
and hates restriction. It gets exalted in the sign of mystery. It gets debilitated in 
the sign of restriction. Heart chakra is indeed the greatest mystery within a human 
being. 


A very interesting thing is that Venus is also an astronomical phenomenon, as 
it is the only planet, which moves clockwise in our solar system. All other planets, 
including our Earth, are moving anti-clockwise on their orbits. This reveals a deep 
esoteric power, hidden in our heart chakra - the power to go against the stream 
and against the odds, whenever we truly, fully desire something. It is the transfor- 
mational power of Love that lies within our hearts, and the power of attraction hid- 
den in our heart chakra. 


Heart region is ruled by the element of air. It is connected with the sense of 
touch. Heart chakra can be beautifully enhanced by massage and touch. Yet, it 
is mostly balanced by the scientific yogic breathing techniques, such as taught in 
Atma Kriya Yoga, which allow us to reach our Cosmic Beloved, on the vehicle of 
our own breath. Atma Kriya Yoga literally spiritualises our breath, the air element 
within us, through connecting it with the right mantras, and thus awakens in us this 
longing for our soul’s only true Love: the Divine. Pranayamas, these ancient breath- 
ing techniques, are purifying our heart chakra and our mind as well. 


From the air element the fire element is born. Let us proceed to manipura 
chakra - the fire’s dominion. 


Manipura chakra 
Solar plexus chakra 


| ‘ , i 
Mars oO . Scorpio - ] Aries 


vision sD Hanipuea Cancer \t Capricorn 


ram 


Manipura chakra is where Love and desire are turned into passion. If you 
would look at a Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra (more about that topic in fourth 
chapter), you would see that it consist mostly of the most intense, the most trans- 
formative and the most passionate nakshatras. 


Manipura chakra is the seat of the fire element within us. Here, the invisible 
(air) turns into visible (fire) - the Spirit gets its substance and an outer expression 
in the world. At the same time, the visible (lower elements of earth and water) gets 
purified into its more subtle state (air, ether) here. Not without a reason ancient 
Vedic seers were recognizing Agni, the deity of the fire, as the messenger between 
heaven and earth. Fire is the element, which allows the subtler elements of air and 
ether to gain their substance, and at the same time it refines the elements of water 
and earth by turning them into a subtler state. Here material turns into subtle, and 
subtle turns into material. Thus, our solar plexus chakra, the seat of Agni, the fire, 
is the seat of transformation within ourselves. 


The element of fire blesses us in the first place with vision and the sense of 
seeing - the sense, that we are the most attached to, and at the same time the 
sense, that is the easiest to manipulate and delude. Here, in manipura chakra, 
focus, determination, motivation and passion are born - the qualities that are nec- 
essary both in material and spiritual world. Here the individuality and independence 
are born, too. Here we get the power to fight the difficulties: to “ingest” the difficult 
energies and transform them within ourselves or to fight them back and protect 
ourselves. Here we make a choice, how we want to use our powerful life-force, and 
how we choose to respond to the signals that we get from the universe. 


On a physical plane the qualities of manipura chakra are reflected in our 
digestive system. Whatever gets into our organism, it needs to be transformed in 


this way, or the other. What our organism considers precious, it turns it into energy 
or builds itself from it - but whatever is dangerous or useless to it, our organism 
excretes. Similarly on the level of our solar plexus chakra we get to learn, that every 
experience transforms us in this way or the other. Here we learn how to derive en- 
ergy from each experience in our lives and how to transform ourselves by learning 
on our mistakes. To put it simple: we learn here, how to process all the frequencies 
that we receive. 


Here our ego and individuality are very strong as well. After all, Mars, the planet 
connected to that chakra, is the best friend of the Sun, as their nature is similar. 
Here personality gets defined by its actions, by its manifestation in the world. Yet, 
on the level of manipura chakra, the personality can also easily get entangled into 
the fake identification with its actions. It is here, in the fire of passion, that we lose 
ourselves into the world and we forget our true nature, by identification with our 
temporary thoughts and deeds. Here the illusory “I am the doer” assumption is 
born. But it is also here, in the holy fire of Agni, where we can get purified of this 
ignorance, and recognise that our true self is made of a far finer substance than just 
our temporary thoughts and beliefs: it is made of Spirit, the true Doer of all, who se- 
cretly works behind the scenes of our lives. 


Through the state of our manipura chakra or Mars in our natal chart we can 
also see, how is our relationship with time. Do we take action, when it’s needed, or 
do we procrastinate a lot? Do we have the courage to do our duties, when there 
is a time for it, or do we rather prefer to stay in our comfort zone? Do we believe, 
that everything happens in Divine timing, or is our impatience driving us crazy? 
Impatience is indeed the first quality, through which you can recognize that one’s 
solar plexus chakra is out of balance - same with procrastination. Whenever Mars 
becomes an Atma Karaka for one, issues related to impatience and procrastination 
will be the ones that the person needs to work the most in this lifetime. 


Mars is exalted in the sign of Capricorn, where our inner fire is stabilised by 
the grounding effect of this sign, and its intense energy is used to fulfil our duties. 
On the opposite side of zodiac Mars is debilitated in the sign of Cancer, where our 
ability to take action is slowed down by the waters of our emotions, insecurity and 
the need to stay in our comfort zone. Water never reacts well with fire. 


In zodiac Mars rules the feminine sign of Scorpio and masculine sign of Aries. 
Aries represents the masculine qualities of our manipura chakra: motivation, de- 
termination, individuality and ego. Scorpio, on the other hand, represents feminine 
qualities of our solar plexus chakra: transformation, self-reflection, passion and 
striving for perfection. 


Visualisation is a very good remedy for improving manipura chakra, as it 
utilises this chakra’s very own sense for a creative purpose. Whenever manipura 


chakra is exaggerated and thus results in too much stress, impatience or anger, it 
is best to harness this inner fire and turn it into creativity and motivation. Above all, 
manipura chakra, is the chakra of power, shakti. Power can manifest in the outer 
world either as aggression, manipulation and anger, or as a motivation for change 
and creativity. To understand the true nature of this chakra it is essential to under- 
stand that anger and motivation are in reality the very same energy, just manifested 
in two opposite ways: destructive and creative. Here, in manipura chakra, we get to 
decide, how do we want to use our personal energy, destructively or creatively. 


Yagna, the ancient Vedic fire ritual, was in the past the most important spiritual 
practice for all people. The sacred fire, Agni, was invoked, to connect the heavenly 
plane with earthly plane, and thus the negative energies from our lower plane were 
transformed, whilst the blessings of gods from the higher planes were invoked at 
the same time. In Vedic times the oblations to the fire were made mostly for the 
deities of nature, who were perceived as the part of one Supreme Spirit. Through 
that ancient fire ceremony people were reminding themselves everyday that they 
are a part of a bigger picture, and that the only Supreme Doer, which hides be- 
hind the scenes of creation, is the Divine. Thus, people were getting transformed 
through yagnas and purified of their false egos, as well as their inner fire element 
seated in manipura chakra was positively transformed. 


It is important to note, that these ancient yagnas were not performed just for 
the one’s personal benefit. They were performed for the welfare of all, for paying 
homage to the spirits of nature and recognizing one Supreme Force, that is present 
in all. It is even scientifically proven that the area in which yagnas are regularly going 
on, has much purer atmosphere, and the very ash from the yagna actually makes 
the earth more fertile, due to sacred ingredients used in such a fire ceremony. 
Through these sacred ceremonies ancient people were purifying their manipura 
chakra and forgetting about their egos for a moment by doing something for the 
welfare of all. 


In our times, when people are crowded in overly populated cities, not every- 
body can afford a luxury of performing a real yagna through invoking sacred fire. 
Yet, Bhagavan Krishna has revealed in Bhagavad Gita the supreme form of yagna, 
purifying us of all karma, through “offering incoming breath into the outgoing, and 
the outgoing breath into the incoming”. This mysterious verse from Bhagavad Gita 
is in fact a description of a specific yogic technique from Atma Kriya Yoga, which 
does not only purify our karma and refine our perception, but it also elevates our 
consciousness to a higher state. This is how the inner yagna can be performed to 
purify and refine our manipura chakra. 


From the fire let us now descend to the realm ruled by water element: svad- 
hishtana chakra. 


Svadhishtana chakra 
Sacral chakra 


Jupiter Jl 91 b a / Pisces es Sagittarius 
taste WU | svadhisthanc Capricorn it Cancer 


varh 


Y 


Svadhishtana chakra is like the river: it wants to follow towards its destiny full- 
hearted ly. Manipura chakra gives us the vision, the focus, the goal and the creative 
spark to start things. But it is the inner water element, which gives us the true 
power to nourish and sustain things, to keep heading towards our goal, no matter 
the obstacles. Svadhishtana is the chakra of our faith, our optimism and our belief 
system - namely, all that “Keeps us going” on our way and sustains our motivation. 


Water element is a complete opposite of the fire element present in manipura 
chakra. Here we learn how to surrender to the flow of life, how to surrender to the 
Divine guidance and the values we believe in. Here we don’t want to guide - we 
want to be guided. These are the true qualities of Jupiter, the planet related to svad- 
hishtana chakra. 


The motivation of every water stream is always to become bigger. Little 
mountain springs join together to create rivers, and river itself grows bigger and 
bigger over its journey, to finally reach its destiny: infinite ocean. Similarly, the 
jupiterian energy present in our svadhishtana chakra is all about expansion, growth, 
optimism, procreation - all about becoming more, than what we already are. It 
becomes easily understandable, why in our times, the age of ignorance, most peo- 
ple connect this chakra mainly with sexuality. Our culture became so shallow, that 
nowadays we experience this inner feeling of expansion almost exclusively through 
sexual intercourse. Yet, although water is surely deeply connected with sexual en- 
ergy within us, it also holds a much a deeper spiritual meaning. 


Water element is where true alchemy happens. As much as through the 
element of fire in manipura chakra things got transformed, purified, changed, and 
partially eliminated, water element is a complete opposite of that: it is about mixing 
things together, mingling them and becoming a bigger whole through connection, 


not through elimination. Fire absorbs all impurities and transforms them immedi- 
ately to give them a different form. That’s the quality of the mind. Water, on the 
other hand, absorbs all impurities and embraces them the way they are - and 
then simply waits for them to slowly fall to its bottom. That’s the quality of our 
subconsciousness. 


Water element, which is ruling in the region of svadhishtana chakra represents 
our ability to accept things the way they are, like the water does, without the need 
to instantly change them. Fire transforms things rapidly, while river shapes our 
environment very slowly, over a long period of time. For fire transformation is the 
priority. For water nourishment and maintaining the inner balance are on the first 
place. Fire is all about “me” - water is all about “us”. Tolerance is born in water 
element. 


Svadhishtana chakra represents also the deep waters of our emotions and our 
subconscious world. After all, signs ruled by Jupiter in zodiac are the most spiritual 
ones. Jupiter is also exalted in Cancer, the watery sign of emotional security, nour- 
ishment, spirituality and sensitivity, while it is debilitated in the materialistic, earthly 
sign of Capricorn. Jupiter, the Cosmic Guru, doesn’t like to bring materialistic 
knowledge into the world - it rather wants to spread the spiritual knowledge, rep- 
resented by the sign of Cancer. 


“Flow” is the most important keyword when it comes to water element, svad- 
hishtana chakra and Jupiter. In whichever sign Jupiter feels this free flow of emo- 
tions and energy, it feels happy there. In whichever sign the flow of water element is 
restricted with lots of boundaries and earthly energies around it, or misbalanced by 
aggressiveness of fire element, Jupiter won’t be happy there. Faith of Jupiter can’t 
blossom freely with too much of heavy energies around it. 


In zodiac Jupiter rules the feminine sign of Pisces and the masculine sign of 
Sagittarius. Sign of Pisces represents the feminine qualities of our svadhishtana 
chakra: formlessness, resting, Divine inspiration, as well as world of dreams and 
Spirituality. Sagittarius on the other hand reveals the masculine qualities of our 
svadhishtana chakra: ability to learn and absorb the knowledge, our relationship 
with the teachers in our life, and our belief system. 


Planet Jupiter, as well as svadhishtana chakra, is also connected with the 
sense of taste. This is why our diet and everything that we intake has a huge 
impact on this chakra. When this chakra is imbalanced addictions can happen 
very easily, as it will make person “swim too much” in the waters of emotions and 
subconscious world, without any direction, with sole purpose to run away from 
the reality and experience a little bit of perishable joy and optimism. This happens 
when natural optimism and faith, given by Jupiter, are absent and a person tries to 
compensate them with something else. 


Jupiter is considered in Jyotish the planet responsible for the quality of our 
digestion, along with Mars. Jupiter is also the primary planet responsible for our 
weight. As Jupiter feels exalted in the sign of Cancer, it reveals the need for emo- 
tional security as the primary need present in the svadhishtana chakra. The science 
of psychosomatics connects this emotional need and any misbalances here with 
changes in fat tissue. Too much water element, caused by misbalanced Jupiter, 
can cause either obesity in the body (“lam not enough” belief), while lack of water 
element can cause problems with getting on weight (“I don’t want to exist” belief). 
Both of these core beliefs, causing problems with weight, are related to person’s 
lack of faith in oneself and insecurity, which is, again, represented by Jupiter in 
Vedic astrology. 


You can see on this easy example how deeply our emotions, thoughts and 
beliefs are connected with our chakras and external forces in the universe. Our 
reality is quite literally shaped by the way, how our chakras filtrate the pure cosmic 
energy. 


Jupiter and svadhishtana chakra represent also our connection with our Guru. 
In Jyotish Jupiter is called “Guru”, the Cosmic Teacher. Svadhishtana chakra, on 
the other hand, is our ability to follow some Higher Guidance and surrender to the 
Divine, as well as to our true Guru - like the water surrenders and takes shape of 
any space it is put into. The state of our water element shows how receptive we 
are, and how easily do we allow changes to happen to us. That is why Jupiter is 
exalted in a very changeable sign of Cancer, but it is debilitated in the stubborn 
sign of Capricorn. 


Whenever svadhishtana chakra and water element are exaggerated in the 
body, it is important to strengthen root and solar plexus chakras, in order to 
balance it. First signs of exaggerated svadhishtana chakra will always be lack of 
grounding, lack of motivation to take action and too emotional nature - which are 
the signs of misbalanced root and solar plexus chakras. When, however, there is 
not enough water element in the body and svadhishtana chakra is weak, swimming 
and drinking enough water will surely help - but in many cases this won't be 
enough. This what truly brings balance to water element, and svadhishtana chakra, 
which is very spiritual in its essence, is a scientific meditation, like Atma Kriya Yoga. 
Daily meditation practice, like Atma Kriya Yoga, is what teaches us to go deeper in 
the inner waters of ourselves, to surrender to the natural flow of life, but at the same 
time stay grounded and focused. It teaches us the understanding of water element 
in its most Divine form: in the form of surrender to the Divine. 


When water element finally gets crystallised and achieves its form, it becomes 
the element of earth. Let us now descend to muladhara chakra, where the element 
of earth is ruling. 


Muladhara chakra 


Root chakra 
Saturn : Capricorn 9 Aquarius 
smell la Aries \t Libra 


This chakra is where earth, the most dense and tangible element is ruling. 
Muladhara chakra represents the very tangible reality around us - the reality, which 
can be heard, touched, seen, tasted and smelled by everybody. The reality, that 
never lies. 


It is here, in muladhara chakra that our thoughts, feelings, visions, dreams and 
other frequencies from the higher planes, finally get their substance and their real 
form, which is available not only for us, but also to everybody around us. Muladhara 
chakra is the final meeting place of individual consciousness with collective con- 
sciousness. It is where the subtle gets crystallised into the material. 


The more dense is the element, the more crystallised it is into a form, the 
harder it is to change it. We can change our thoughts in a fraction of second, but 
once we make a bad decision in reality and it already brought its results, itis not so 
easy to “clean up” the chaos ina real, tangible world, which affects not only us, but 
also our surroundings. 


Similarly it is with the planets. The further they are from the source, from the 
Higher Consciousness, represented as the Sun in our solar system, the slower they 
move on their orbits and the results they bring into our lives are more lasting and 
more profound. Just by observing this analogy you can beautifully see, why the 
exact planets, exact elements and exact chakras are deeply connected by the Di- 
vine genius of Cosmic Architect. 


Here, in the region ruled by earth element, all the actions will have a long- 
lasting effect. Once a though, a word, a vision or a feeling gets its substance in the 
real world, it stays here forever. You can’t take it back. The very name of muladhara 
chakra means: “the one having roots”. Once the seed of karma sprouts in the outer 
reality, it takes its roots there, and it’s not so easy to reverse this process. Mulad- 
hara, being the chakra of reality, is also the chakra of final results and our ultimate 


meeting with our karma. 


The planet, which is a significator of karma in Vedic astrology is Saturn. 
Saturn’s powerful influence is connected with earthly region of our root chakra. 
Similarly, like muladhara chakra, Saturn’s influence is all about showing us the raw 
reality, the way it is, and making us face the truth, as well as the results of our own 
actions. That is why Saturn is the planet, which people are the most afraid of, es- 
pecially in India: it is the planet of our ultimate karmic return. 


Most of us are afraid of Saturn, because we are simply afraid of the truth - 
especially the truth about ourselves. It is also the fear of taking the responsibility 
for our actions and our life. The more we live only in the mind and in the land of our 
dreams, the less grounded we are, and the harder it is for us to stand the powerful 
influence of Saturn. Saturn is not merciful for those, who resist the reality or try to 
run away from it. It is here to remind us that we are a part of this world, and every- 
thing we think, say or do, has a very tangible impact on the reality around us. 


This is why infamous shani sade sati period, seven and half years of Saturn, is 
so feared in India. During this period Saturn has its transit through our natal Moon 
and thus directly affects our mind. If there is too big difference between what our 
mind thinks the reality to be, and what reality truly is, Saturn will keep bringing us 
down to earth during this time, so we can see the reality with our own eyes and 
experience it ina very tangible manner. During that period Saturn confronts us with 
all our fears and limitations, to make us more humble, but also to make us more 
grounded, responsible and confident. People, who have a strong root chakra and 
balanced earth element within themselves, would usually excel during shani sade 
sati, as the combination of the energies of Moon and Saturn would open in front of 
them the possibility of bringing their ideas (Moon) into the real world (Saturn). But 
when muladhara chakra is weak, this time period might not be necessarily the most 
pleasant one, as this is when the mind will get a crash with reality. 


The reality never lies. Similarly, our sense of smell never lies. Sense of smell is 
deeply connected with muladhara chakra, and this is what makes aromatherapy so 
powerful. Unlike other four senses, the sense of smell never gets filtrated through 
our conscious mind. For all mammals sense of smell is crucial for survival, and 
being so, our biology couldn't afford to allow this precious sense to be corrupted 
by the relative perception of our minds. Muladhara chakra is very strongly con- 
nected with our survival instincts, and thus it is also very much connected with the 
feeling of fear. In muladhara chakra all our fears have their roots, as Saturn himself 
is the planet of fear. 


Saturn is the last planet visible by naked human eye, which makes it the 
planet, which shows us our own boundaries and limitations. Even the rings 
around Saturn remind us about the ultimate truth, that everything has its limits. 


In muladhara chakra we learn how to derive our strength from understanding our 
weaknesses, and how to derive confidence from humility - how to acknowledge 
our limitations and go beyond them. 


Sincerity is the quality, which is dearest to Saturn, because when you are 
insincere, you are acting directly against the reality and through that you cause 
a misbalance in the universe. This is why whenever Saturn transits one of your 
houses, it will show you the truth about this particular sphere of your life - the truth, 
that you might have refused to see for a very long time. 


Saturn is a planet of Cosmic Order and righteousness, which has truth as its 
base. This is why Saturn is exalted in Libra, the sign of cosmic law and balance, 
while it is debilitated in the sign of Aries - the sign of individuality and ego. Saturn 
always looks from the perspective of what is good for all, never from a perspective 
of what is good for an individual. 


As Saturn is the planet that moves in the slowest way, it also represents 
everything that is long-term, as well as our ability to take responsibility and be loyal 
and dedicated, regardless of the obstacles, which may appear on our way. The 
ring around Saturn is like a wedding ring, which represents our ability to stay loyal 
and dedicated. Yet, at the same time, Saturn, teaches us also where shall we put 
our own boundaries and when to say “no”, when it’s needed. As much as through 
svadhishtana chakra we learn to say “yes” to all those energies, that we would like 
to receive in life, in muladhara chakra we learn to say “no” to all those energies, 
that don’t serve us anymore. One of the first things that you will notice in people, 
who have weak muladhara chakra is that they have a big problem with saying “no” 
to others, as well as with receiving refusal. | personally know people, for whom 
hearing “no” is almost like the end of the world. After all, Saturn is also a planet of 
rejection and fear of being rejected. 


In zodiac Saturn rules the feminine sign of Capricorn and the masculine sign 
of Aquarius. Aquarius represents the masculine qualities of our muladhara chakra, 
like humanitarian concern, thinking out of the box of our boundaries and thinking 
about the goodness of all. It is all about restoring the balance and connecting 
small particles into one bigger whole. Capricorn, on the other hand, represents the 
feminine qualities of our root chakra, like structure, organisation, following the law, 
fulfilling our duties and being responsible. 


When muladhara chakra is weak, we don't only lack assertiveness, but we also 
lack grounding and stability in life. Realising any of our ideas seems very hard for 
us, as in such a state we subconsciously run away from hard job and responsibility. 
People with weak root chakra will also have a very hard time, while facing the 
obstacles in life, and they won't be very loyal or dedicated. Justice is usually not 
their top priority. They will also lack a good dose of confidence, as well as humility 


- because true confidence can arise only from true humility. 


On the other hand, people with exaggerated muladhara chakra may be way 
too structured, overly organized and they might always want everything to work 
according to certain rules - usually their rules. When earth element is exaggerated, 
person wants to set too much boundaries in the reality, and the person wants ev- 
erybody to obey the same rules. Such a person can be often so focused on trying 
to do everything fair to such an extent, that balancing the karmic debts from others 
will be more important for the person than compassion and understanding. Such 
people need to understand in life that each one of us is different and applying the 
same rules for everybody will never work. 


Yet, we cannot forget to mention, that besides all that is mentioned above, mu- 
ladhara chakra is also the seat of Kundalini shakti, our Divine potency, represented 
in iconography by a coiled snake. It is here, where our spiritual journey towards 
higher realms happens, where kundalini shakti awakens. It is also here, where ida 
and pingala, the feminine and the masculine energy channels in our subtle body, 
start their journey towards the Higher Consciousness. 

It is said that kundalini shakti lies in three and half coils at the base of our spine. 
Interestingly, when you observe Saturn through a good telescope from Earth, you 
will be able to see only its three (and half!) main rings. Coiled kundalini shakti is our 
personal energy and our personal karma that needs to be released. The rings of the 
Saturn represent the same, the boundaries of our self-created karma. 


A popular theory states Saturn’s rings probably formed when objects like 
comets, asteroids, or even moons broke up in orbit around Saturn due to Saturn’s 
very strong gravity. The pieces of these objects kept colliding with each other and 
broke into even smaller pieces. These pieces gradually spread around Saturn to 
form its rings. When we understand, that Saturn is the planet related to our root 
chakra, it has indeed a very deep meaning. Our muladhara chakra is the biggest 
storehouse of our karma within our energy body, and Saturn itself is called a karma 
karaka in Vedic astrology. Whenever we get attached to any experience in our life, 
it immediately gets attracted by the strong gravity of our root chakra, and stays 
there as a karmic record - similarly like asteroids and comets get attracted by 
strong gravity of Saturn. In the same way, our karma keeps “circling around” our 
muladhara chakra, which represents our reality. This is why similar situations keep 
coming back into our lives, as long as we do not truly honour the life lessons they 
try to teach us. 


In next chapters you will notice that Cosmic Root Chakra consists of two 
nakshatras, which represent in Jyotish spiritual awakening and kundalini shakti her- 
self: Purva Bhadrapada and Uttara Bhadrapada. Purva Bhadrapada, represents the 
intensity of spiritual awakening, while Uttara Bhadrapada represents the ground- 
ing, stabilising force for this powerful energy. 


This is, what we learn on any spiritual path: a true spiritual awakening cannot 
happen without a proper grounding. Kundalini shakti is pretty much like electric 
current travelling up our spine, within the sushumna channel, piercing all our 
chakras - and electricity, when it is not grounded, can be destructive, too. Thus, 
purifying muladhara chakra and keeping it strong and grounded is essential for 
spiritual awakening to happen. 


There are many ways, how we can purify and strengthen our muladhara 
chakra. Physical exercises, like yoga asanas, are very good for establishing a 
proper grounding. Walking barefoot on the grass is also a very good practice. Yet, 
using scientific meditation techniques, like Atma Kriya Yoga, is what can provide 
you an ultimate grounding, and at the same time it prepares within your subtle body 
a platform for spiritual awakening to happen. There is even an exact technique for 
purifying muladhara chakra in Atma Kriya Yoga. The sole process of meditation is 
very powerful for healing the root chakra, as it teaches us patience, humility, intro- 
spection and facing the reality the way it is - all the qualities, which Saturn is trying 
to teach us. 


Rahu & Ketu: Lunar nodes in our subtle body 


Now, when you know, how each planet is intimately connected with each of 
the chakras within our subtle body, you might ask: but what about Rahu and Ketu, 
the lunar nodes? 


Rahu and Ketu are two opposite forces in our subconsciousness. The first is 
all about greed, unsatiated desire, obsession and yearning to experience, while the 
second is all about detachment, liberation and finishing things. Rahu is the force, 
which makes us entangled in the world, while Ketu is the force, which liberates us. 
That is why two lunar nodes always occupy the opposite signs in zodiac, while in 
reality they are just two opposite sides of the same subconscious force. 


In our subtle body, Rahu and Ketu manifest as a downward and upward 
movement of energy within our energetic spine, sushumna, known in yogic tradition 
as prana (upward) and apana (downward). Similarly like the energy of prana is cold, 
while the energy of apana is warm, the energy of Ketu is cold, while the energy of 
Rahu is warm. These two opposite forces act secretly behind each of our incom- 
ing breath and outgoing breath, in every second of our lives. In yogic traditions, 
such as Atma Kriya Yoga, we learn to balance these two opposite currents of our 
personal energy, by exact yogic techniques and the right visualisation of prana and 
apana moving up and down our spine. In Atma Kriya Yoga we utilise prana and 
apana to awaken the electric current of Divine grace in our subtle spine. 


By understanding that, it is not hard to guess, why people with many planets 
in Rahu and Ketu nakshatras, are usually very spiritual. Rahu and Ketu are the true 
transformational forces working behind our chakras. 


When we understand this deep connection between lunar nodes and prana 
and apana within our subtle body, connected to our incoming breath and outgoing 
breath, it is also easy to comprehend, why this moment of our very first breath in 
this body, is the moment, considered our true time of birth in Vedic astrology. When 
we are still connected to our mother by umbilical chord, and when she is still doing 
the breathing for us, we are still under the karmic influence of our mother. Our own 
wheel of karma is set into motion the moment we start to breath on our own, as 
then our prana and apana, which enlivens our chakras, start to work, and along 
with them the lunar nodes get activated. 


Having this understanding, also the astrological phenomenon of kala sarpa 


yoga (when all planets are placed between Rahu and Ketu in zodiac) and kala 
amrita yoga (when all planets are placed between Ketu and Rahu) starts to be more 
understandable. When all planets, representing our chakras, are placed between 
Rahu and Ketu, like in kala sarpayoga, then the downward current of energy within 
our subtle bodies, apana, is too strong, which can exaggerate our struggle within 
the material world. On the other hand, when all the planets are placed between 
Ketu and Rahu, there is a strong feeling of dissatisfaction and lack of direction in 
life, caused by too strong current of prana, upward energy. Spiritual practices, such 
as Atma Kriya Yoga, are extremely powerful when it comes to balancing the effects 
of kala sarpa or kala amrita yoga in the horoscope. 


The journey is just beginning 


Isn't it fascinating to study your inner you-niverse? 


Since | started to study the connection between the chakras and the planets in 
our solar system, | started to truly understand, what Vedic seers meant, when they 
were saying that through Jyotish, through the sacred art of Vedic astrology, we can 
truly reach enlightenment. Perhaps you start to sense that, too. 


If this inner journey was interesting for you so far, then be prepared - because 
it is going to get more and more intriguing. 


Go to top 


Chapter 3 
Movements of Consciousness Through the Zodiac 


When | started to study the multitude of connections between each chakra 
and its planet, | was amazed. But when | started to study each zodiac sign in rela- 
tion to each chakra, it is when! became truly surprised and humbled by the beauty 
of Vedic knowledge and the Divine genius of Cosmic Creator. 


In previous chapter you have learned, how each chakra is connected to each 
planet. Now, when you already know, that each planet is ruling two signs in Vedic 
astrology (except Sun and Moon, which have just one sign each), one feminine and 
one masculine, let us visualise how would look a zodiac chart, if we put chakras in 
the places of the zodiac signs they are connected to: 


y Re Beat: 
Pisces, Rees” 


SVADHISTHANA MANIPURA 
| a > | 
At Guacins 


<i 


MULADHARA 


rn 


Capricorn 


MULADHARA 


ges ape wea, 
SufittaitM Sccfyic qlé Ca » 
MM ee b~ 


SVADHISTHANA MANIPURA ANAHATA VISHUDDHA 


The secrets of Cosmic Cycle 


Do you notice a certain pattern in the picture above? 


Starting from muladhara chakra, present in the signs of Capricorn and Aquar- 
ius, if you would move your finger clockwise across the chart, like most of the 
planets are moving through the zodiac, you will pass through svadhishtana chakra 
(Pisces), manipura (Aries), anahata (Taurus) and vishuddha (Gemini), all the way up 
to third eye chakra, represented by the signs of Cancer and Leo. From that point, 
if you continue to go clockwise, you will slowly descend through vishuddha (Virgo), 
anahata (Libra), manipura (Scorpio) and svadhishtana (Sagittarius), back again to 
root chakra in the sign of Capricorn and Aquarius. 


Does it remind you of something? 


It is exactly how prana and apana work in our subtle body with each incoming 
and outgoing breath we take. Prana, the upward current of energy, moves through 
our sushumna from the base chakra to the third eye, while apana, the downward 
current of energy, moves down the spine from the third eye to muladhara chakra. 
The ancient yogis noticed the connection between this cosmic cycle and the 
breathing cycle within our subtle body, and they created powerful kriya techniques, 
such as Atma Kriya Yoga, to harness this natural energy within us, and to use it 
for purifying our chakras out of their karmic luggage stored in them. In Atma Kriya 
Yoga literally every breath we take is a reflection of this beautiful cosmic cycle, 
which attunes us to the higher vibrations of each planet and thus allows us to mas- 
ter the energy of each of our chakras. 


Mystery of Uttarayana revealed 


UTTARAYANA 


yN eee a 
, 7 : - 
Pisces Aces Tayeus> 


ec Bw 


SVADHISTHANA MANIPURA ANAHATA 


an 


Aguatins 


MULADHARA 


a, 
Ccpricoen 
MULADHARA 
oo @*a 
Tt of] r a 
Sapittatins| Scotpio | Clitead 
NM | - wv 


SVADHISTHANA MANIPURA ANAHATA VISHUDDHA 


DAKSHINAYANA 


When you observe the above diagram it becomes obvious, why Uttarayana, 
the northern movement of the Sun, is considered holy by Hindus. According to 
Vedic timing Uttarayana starts, when the Sun enters the sign of Capricorn, when 
it reaches the zodiacal muladhara chakra. Once the Sun, representing the Higher 
Consciousness, reached the muladhara chakra, it can now proceed only up the 
zodiacal chakras. Thus, during Uttarayana, the Sun goes up the zodiacal chakras, 
awakening their spiritual energies on the way. Even in Bhagavad Gita Lord Krishna 
has revealed that Uttarayana is the best time to leave the body. Perhaps the 
deeper, esoteric meaning behind his message was connected with the fact, that 
during Uttarayana the Sun travels up the chakras, and thus the energy in our own 
chakras also tends to go more “up”, towards spiritual vibrations and towards the 
Divine. 


Once the Sun reaches the sign of Cancer, the zodiacal third eye, Dakshinayana 


starts - the southern movement of the Sun, which can be thus understood as the 
downward movement of the Sun through the zodiacal chakras, which makes the 
downward life current stronger within our own subtle bodies and chakras. During 
Dakshinayana our materialistic tendencies get stronger and we need to put more 
effort in our actions. Uttarayana is thus more connected to Ketu, the liberating force 
and upward movement of energy within our subtle body, while Dakshinayana is 
more connected to Rahu, the energy of materialistic struggle and downward move- 
ment of energy within our subtle body. 


If we now understand, that Sun, in fact represents nothing else, but our own 
consciousness, you can literally see how Sun is performing kriya yoga up in the 
sky, revealing to all of us the secret behind this powerful yogic technique. The 
technique itself is a secret and can be taught exclusively by a certified teacher on 
an Atma Kriya Yoga course, so we can’t discuss it here in detail. But if you wish to 
become a true yogi and awaken the Divine potential within you, Atma Kriya Yoga 
is definitely something you would like to practice - the universe itself is performing 
these techniques right on our sky. This gives us far broader understanding, how an- 
cient Vedic seers were truly learning just from observing nature. 


Interestingly enough, according to recent research of NASA, the Sun is even 
chanting the sacred sound orri during its sacred journey throughout our sky (rep- 
resenting our earthly perception). There has been made an interesting experiment, 
where specific vibration in the Sun's coronal loops which vibrate transversely (as a 
guitar) and longitudinally (as a wind instrument) were captured and conversed into 
the sound waves audible to our ears on Earth. These waves sound very similarly 
to the sacred sound orri (you can check it on YouTube). The Sun literally chants 
orri while moving across the sky of our earthly perception, through the heavenly 
zodiacal chakras, giving us a hint, with each of its movements, about the most sa- 
cred yogic practice for uplifting the human consciousness: Kriya yoga. 


Bhagavan Krishna reveals indirectly the mystery behind the practice of kriya 
yoga in Bhagavad Gita. In the beginning of chapter four Sri Krishna openly says 
about this ancient science of uplifting the human consciousness: “I instructed this 
imperishable science of yoga to the Sun-god, Vivasvan, and Vivasvan instructed 
it to Manu, the father of mankind, and Manu in turn instructed it to Iksvaku. This 
supreme science was thus received through the chain of disciplic succession, and 
the saintly kings understood it in that way. But in course of time the succession 
was broken, and therefore the science as it is appears to be lost. That very ancient 
science of the relationship with the Supreme is today told by Me to you because 
you are My devotee as well as My friend; therefore you can understand the tran- 
scendental mystery of this science.” From these verses we learn that the first one 
who learned the science of uplifting the consciousness from the Supreme was 
Sun-god himself. No wonder that the movements of the Sun on our sky reflect the 


movements of consciousness during kriya yoga practice and remind us constantly 
about the need to establish our own relationship with the Divine. 


As the Sun is doing its kriya around the zodiac, so in Atma Kriya Yoga we 
move our consciousness through the chakras in one harmonious cycle, reflecting 
the movements of the Sun, our Higher Consciousness. This indeed reveals an un- 
paralleled genius of the ancient sages and seers, who had given those techniques 
to mankind. With Atma Kriya Yoga you literally do not need to bother yourself, 
whether it is Uttarayana or Dakshinayana now, as your soul starts to create its own 
sacred microcosmic cycle, and your very own chakras start radiate auspiciousness 
and Divine vibrations. That is why yogic techniques such as Atma Kriya Yoga are 
absolutely best jyotish remedies, above all others. 


Cosmic nuances 


When | was meditating on the picture above, humbled by the perfection of 
the Creator present in every piece of our macrocosm and microcosm, | started to 
look closer at the nakshatras behind the zodiac, especially the nakshatras between 
the exact zodiacal chakras. And | became even more amazed, seeing the exact 
patterns in the “frontier’ nakshatras between the zodiacal chakras, which perfectly 
reflect the qualities and issues related to the consciousness ascending from one 
chakra to another. In fact, it is really amazing how much we can learn about the 
nature of true spiritual development just by observing nakshatras - the sacred stars 
behind the zodiac. 


Dhanishta nakshatra 


ta 
CTaueus> 
= 
Bld 


z Dhanishta 


Dhanishta nakshatra, present equally between the sign of Capricorn and 
Aquarius, resides at the very base of the zodiacal spine, where kundalini shakti 
dwells. From this perspective it is very easy to understand, why one of the symbols 
of Dhanishta nakshatra is the ladder. This nakshatra is connected to this part in our 
subtle body, from where our consciousness starts to rise up the sushumna channel 
to higher energy centres. This inner process of rising of consciousness through the 
chakras is sometimes represented in Hindu mythology as climbing up the sacred 
mountain of Meru. Now, is that a coincidence that the deities of this nakshatra are 
eight Vasus, Vedic elemental gods, who are said to be constantly flying around the 
top of mountain Meru? 


Another symbol of Dhanishta nakshatra is also the flute. A flute with six holes 
is a beautiful metaphor of our sushumna nadi, and its six chakras. Sahasrara, the 
ultimate energy centre in our cranium would be here the place, where cosmic flute 
player, Bhagavan Krishna, puts His lips and breathes life into us. Isn’t that the true 
goal on any spiritual path, to become an instrument of God and purify ourselves, so 


the Divine melody can flow through us freely, without any disharmonious note? 


Purva Bhadrapada and Uttarashadha nakshatras 


ta, 
Claes» 
Boat 


wea, 
< libea> 
ee 


Between the zodiacal muladhara chakra and svadhishtana chakra, which is the 
point between Aquarius and Pisces on one side, and the point between Sagittarius 
and Capricorn on the other side, we have Purva Bhadrapada nakshatra on one 
side and Uttarashadha nakshatra on the other side. Both of these nakshatras are 
deeply spiritual. One is fixed, symbolising the need of stability, while awakening 
our kundalini shakti in muladhara chakra, while another one is fierce and intense, 
resembling the powerful nature of spiritual awakening. Both of them, however, 
seek stability and grounding. Uttarashadha is placed before Purva Bhadrapada in 
zodiac, in a downward cycle, which shows the need to firstly take care of worldly 
matters, before we focus on our spiritual awakening, so the powerful, electric 
current of kundalini shakti can have a proper grounding. Uttarashadha and Purva 
Bhadrapada have also one very important thing in common: humanitarian concern, 
thinking about the goodness of all humanity. 


Gandanta points between svadhishtana and manipura 


ate 


4 7 
€Tayeuys> 
“eae 


al “a, 
«< livead 


Now, if you look at the nakshatras present between zodiacal svadhishtana 
chakra and manipura chakra, between Pisces and Aries, and Sagittarius and 
Scorpio, you will notice there gandanta points, on both sides. That cannot be a 
coincidence. 


Gandantas are three points on the Vedic sky, which occur always when the 
watery sign turns into fiery sign. It denotes the end of one nakshatra cycle. 
Whenever a planet transits this special point in the sky, we experience an intense 
transformation during this time period - as passing from water to fire is never easy. 
Gandanta literally means “the end of the cycle”, “the end of the knot’. 


Similarly, the journey from water to fire, which happens in our subtle body, 
when our consciousness rises from svadhishtana chakra to manipura chakra, is 
visible on the sky between zodiacal svadhishtana chakra and zodiacal manipura 


chakra in the form of two gandanta points, present exactly between those two 
chakras. The presence of two gandanta points in those two exact places on the sky 
reveals the eternal conflict between water and fire and the need to overcome it dur- 
ing the process of spiritual awakening. 


The nakshatras of Agni 


rN 


= 


Pn all : Se wh c eI 
Scyittc&iw ' fyi CliGr29 
— 4 : 4 


V 


Each nakshatra reflects the energy, the shakti, of one Vedic deity in Jyotish. 
There is only one deity, however, which is the ruler of two nakshatras: Agni, the god 
of fire. To make it even more interesting, the nakshatras of Agni are present exactly 
between Aries and Taurus, and Scorpio and Libra - between zodiacal manipura 
chakra and anahata chakra, on both sides of the zodiac. Krittika, the nakshatra of 
Agni present between Aries and Taurus, in the upward cycle, represents the purifi- 
cation of gross vibrations into something more subtle in the fire wisdom. Vishakha, 
the other nakshatra of Agni present between Scorpio and Libra, represents the 
condensation of inner fire into the material world, which results with creativity and 
fame. 


The nakshatras of Mars 


1g ES 
€Tayeus 
“Bw 


Margashirsha 
t guacius 


~ 


Chitra . 
\ 
tian) oF a, 
) agittacins| SectyiC | ¢€ li€ea* 
Cease, Saal Re aan 


As Dhanishta nakshatra, the nakshatra of Mars present between Capricorn 
and Aquarius, plays a crucial role in spiritual awakening, so two other nakshatras of 
Mars, Margashirsha and Chitra seem very important, as both of them are present 


exactly on the borders between zodiacal anahata chakra and vishuddha chakra, on 
both sides. 


Between Taurus and Gemini there is Margashirsha, a very swift nakshatra, 
which primary motivation is searching for a higher purpose and higher fulfilment in 
life - which eventually leads to a spiritual search. On the other side of zodiac, be- 
tween Virgo and Libra, there is Chitra nakshatra, which holds a very similar lesson 
like Margashirsha: searching for the higher beauty within ourselves, rather than in 
the outer world, and learning through our very own experience. Both nakshatras 
are very spiritual and both are about looking for some higher fulfilment, higher 
harmony in life. Yet, both are coming to that conclusion only after a long period of 


enjoyment and search in the material world, which can never satisfy them, and this 
eventually leads them towards a spiritual search. 


The Cosmic Mother and the Cosmic Father 


wee, 
€Tayreys> 
if 
a | 


Scyittc&iw' 
Suleieee 


Vv 


As we look at the two nakshatras between zodiacal vishuddha chakra and ajna 
chakra, we will see that they act as the Cosmic Mother and the Cosmic Father, the 
Ultimate Goddess and the Ultimate God within us - the two opposites, which unite 
in third eye chakra. 


On the border between the masculine sign of Gemini and the feminine sign of 
Cancer, there is Punarvasu nakshatra, whose deity is Aditi - the Cosmic Mother of 
gods. One of the only three nakshatras that are ruled by goddesses in zodiac. On 
the other side of the zodiac, between the feminine sign of Virgo and the masculine 
sign of Leo, there is Uttara Phalguni nakshatra ruled by Aryaman, one of the man- 
ifestations of the Sun god, who is considered the cosmic god of patronage - the 
Cosmic Father. The symbolism is very obvious here. 


There is, however, one more beautiful symbolism behind it. Aditi, the goddess 
of Punarvasu nakshatra, is worshipped in the Vedas also as Bhu Devi, Mother 
Earth. Uttara Phalguni nakshatra, on the other hand, is a birth nakshatra of god- 
dess Lakshmi. Bhu Devi and Lakshmi are the two wives of Narayana, His two 
shaktis, who are always present at His feet. One blesses us with material wealth 
(Bhu Devi), while another blesses us with spiritual wealth (Lakshmi). These two spe- 
cial nakshatras are present exactly on the borders between zodiacal throat chakras 
and zodiacal ajna chakras. Ajna chakra represents the Supreme Consciousness, 
Narayana within us - Bhu Devi and Lakshmi are present in the forms of Punarvasu 
nakshatra and Uttara Phalguni nakshatra right next to Him, at His feet. 


The ultimate gandanta point 


= 


The ultimate gandanta point, the ultimate inner conflict between the two 
opposites, which needs to be solved on a spiritual journey, is exactly between the 
signs of Cancer and Leo, in the middle of the zodiacal third eye chakra, where two 


opposites, masculine and feminine, finally merge, and where we are finally freed 
from all our cosmic burden, represented by Ashlesha and Magha nakshatra form- 
ing this last gandanta point. Here we learn the final balance between accepting and 
embracing things (Ashlesha) and detaching ourselves from them (Magha). 


Evolving of consciousness 


Just by having the knowledge from this and the previous chapters, you can 
easily observe, how the consciousness of an individual is evolving in this lifetime, 
by looking in which chakras and in which “stressful” points the planets hold the 
karma of the person. By seeing whether the planet dwells in an upward or a 
downward cycle of the zodiac, you can also see, whether the person will evolve 
through Divine help (upward cycle, Ketu) or through his/her own effort (downward 
cycle, Rahu). It is also very interesting to analyse retrograde planets from that per- 
spective. But | believe there are still far more mysteries to be solved and far more 
discoveries to be made on that topic. 


Now, when we already analysed the planets and their zodiac signs in relation 
to the chakras in our subtle bodies, let us unlock some even deeper wisdom: un- 
derstanding the nakshatras and their connection to your subtle body. 


Go to top 


Chapter 4 
Nakshatras: the Alphabet of the Soul 


Nakshatras are 27 Vedic constellations working behind the zodiac, each hav- 
ing four portions, which gives us 108 unique sacred energies in total. Have a look at 
a picture below to get familiar with the names of those nakshatras and have a bet- 
ter understanding, which portions of the zodiac they occupy. 


Bharani Krittika 


jit 


A ° an weet 
YeShp, ey meee ste 


Anuradha ~ Vishakha 


Any astrologer who ever tried to connect the exact nakshatras with exact 
chakras in the subtle body, noticed that the task is not so easy, as it may seem 
at first. | myself tried many systems, before the right inspiration came to me, but 
nothing seemed to really work. Only when | gave up on intellectual research and 
started to do a diligent nakshatra sadhana, by chanting the exact mantras of each 


nakshatra on their respective days, this deep, esoteric wisdom, hidden from the 
world of astrology for so long, came to me on its own. 


The secret was in the mantras, the cosmic sounds of consciousness. 


Cosmic manifestation through sound vibration 


According to Vedic science, our whole universe is manifested from one primor- 
dial vibration: orri. This mother-vibration is what is setting the neutral matter into 
motion. It is like the glance of the Divine, which impregnates the reality with move- 
ment and causes the external manifestation to happen. Interestingly enough, orri is 
the only sound that can be produced without the involvement of the tongue. Even 
if your tongue would be cut off, you would still be able to chant orri - the sound of 
existence. 


This primordial vibration, orri, splits in the world of matter into 50 different 
vibrations, 50 different frequencies, represented by 50 sounds of Sanskrit alphabet 
- or, as you will see, rather a 25 pairs of sounds, which are reflecting 25 pairs of 
the most important nerves in our spine. These 50 vibrations are represented in a 
symbolic way as inscribed on 50 petals of our chakras. In reality, these 50 petals do 
not only represent 50 nerves in our spine, but also 50 most important nadis, energy 
channels, connecting there in our subtle bodies. These sacred vibrations activate 
each of these energy channels, as well as the nerves connected to it. 


You will notice the all the syllables of sacred Sanskrit alphabet end with the 
letter rri. It is not a coincidence. This ri means “within me”. Ancient sages gave us 
a hint that all the 50 letters of Sanskrit alphabet resonate with 50 different energy 
channels within us. All those Divine frequencies are present inside of us. 


All these frequencies in the form of Sanskrit letters are perfectly arranged in 
a sequence starting from the subtlest vibrations and ending in the densest ones, 
reflecting the descent of consciousness into the world. Interestingly, usually this 
is also the sequence in which we learn, as babies, to produce different sounds. 
Sanskrit alphabet starts with vowels (visible in the picture below on the petals of 
throat chakra), and then proceeds with consonants, which get their place in the 
alphabet according to the place where they are produced in the mouth, from the 
throat towards the lips. If you try to recite the mantras of Sanskrit alphabet (you 
can see them below, inscribed in the petals of the chakras - the beginning is in the 
throat chakra), one by one, you will notice, how beautifully they are arranged. They 
start in the throat (how symbolic!) and end in lips. 


Vedic seers knew, how powerful is human tongue and thus created their 
language in the most harmonious way. It is even proven scientifically that chant- 
ing Vedic mantras puts pressure on tongue, vocal chords, lips, palate and other 


connecting points in the body, activating them differently, according to the sounds 
produced. Indeed, ancient sages recognised a powerful energy channel within our 
subtle body, which is deeply connected with our tongue. Very few people know, 
that along the sushumna, the main nadi in our subtle body, there is one more 
important energy channel called sarasvati nadi. This energy channel starts with 
sushumna at the base of our spine, in root chakra, and it ends in tongue. Certain 
yogic techniques, like kKhechari mudra taught in Atma Kriya Yoga, utilise the power 
of this energy channel for spiritual development. 


It is interesting to note, that right after the heart, the very first organ fully 
formed from an embryo, the tongue is what emerges. Literally, the tongue grows 
from the heart of the baby in a prenatal phase, which also reveals a deep, primor- 
dial connection between our tongues and our hearts. 


On the picture below you will see that each chakra has its core mantra 
in the middle, as well as some of the 50 vibrations inscribed on its respective 
petals. Although the core mantras do not follow any exact pattern, you will notice 
a very astonishing pattern visible through the mantras inscribed on the petals of 
the chakras: they follow the exact sequence of the letters of Sanskrit alphabet, 
and each of them is connected to one nakshatra. How wondrous it is, that the 
sequence in which nakshatras appear in the sky and the sequence of Sanskrit al- 
phabet perfectly reflect the way these mantras are inscribed within 50 petals of our 
chakras! Understanding and studying this connection is quite literally like breaking 
the code of life itself. 


P ; > a mw 7 “7 
oF Uttara Bhadrapada 
oe 


eg ~S Mantra Nakshatra Planet 
rah amam = a a 


am, ah Revati Mercury 


aum Trh 
vidwddfa . 
aim am rit, frh, |rm, Irm ohini 
em rm erh Margashirsha Mars 
- x al 


om 


karh_ = kharh 


Mdm. om, Mantra Nakshatra Planet 
tharh 


kam Pushya Saturn 


garh kharh, gam Ashlesha Mercury 


yarn cam Purva Phalguni Venus 
*s 7 
¥ 


+ oF “ . 
‘pham °! *#dham j 
5 i Nakshatra Planet 
. f en ee /eemmereesesomires tov os ememeees oven: 


ae” FP es 
f Svati 
parh narh ; 
Me, ; G . t Ca ae 
~ haniputa 
a *y, 
‘nam rarh tarh’ 
f 7 
fr ¥ | nam, pam, pham 
'dham vy aly 
ee 4 dam / a 
x. a 
barn 


Purva Ashadha Venus 


lam * | bharh } 
svadhisthana | 


Uttara Ashadha un 
tr T 
P , mam Shravana Moon 
varh t + 
rarh mam yam, ram Dhanishta Mars 
larh Shatabhisha Rahu 
ae i 


yam 


vam, sarn Purva Bhadrapada Jupiter 


sam,sam | Uttara Bhadrapada Saturn 


The language of the Soul 


Similarly, like each of the sounds of Cosmic Alphabet is assigned to each 
petal of our chakras, each of these sounds is also assigned to one nakshatra. It 
was quite ground-breaking for me to discover that the pattern, in which the exact 
sounds of Sanskrit alphabet are appearing on the petals of the chakras, is exactly 
the same as the pattern in which they appear in the nakshatras in the sky. In 
reality the nakshatras are forming the Cosmic Chakras working behind the zodiac, 
through which their true meaning could be understood on a much deeper level. 


| have tested this knowledge on countless examples already, and it doesn’t 
cease to astonish me. Each time | look at it, | discover something new. | invite you 
to take this knowledge, study it carefully and test it. Start to observe the person’s 
natal chart from the perspective of Cosmic Chakras. You might be amazed with the 
results. 


Let us go once again on the journey through our chakras and understand our 
inner universe on an even deeper level. 


Cosmic Third Eye Chakra 


~@W  ®, 


om 


Punarvasu 


Uttara ham 


ksarn Revati 
Bhadrapada 


™~ - 


The core mantra of third eye chakra is orri, the primordial vibration, which 
reverberates through the entire universe and sets the atoms into motion in a cosmic 
dance of creation, maintenance and destruction. Three letters of the sound aurri 
(pronounced as orri) stand for Brahma, the Creator (a), Vishnu, the Protector (u) and 
Shiva, the Destroyer (m). Chanting of this sacred syllable literally connects our indi- 
vidual consciousness with the Cosmic Consciousness, and harmonises the eternal 
cycle of creation, maintenance and destruction within our own subtle bodies. 


In many yogic techniques and kriyas, such as Atma Kriya Yoga, the vibration 
of the sound orriis utilised for the spiritual development, purification of the chakras 
and upliftment of consciousness. The main kriya in Atma Kriya Yoga system reflects 
the movements of the Sun through zodiacal chakras in the sky and purifies them 
with the power of the sound orri by a specific yogic technique. 


The frequency of mantra orri was connected by Vedic seers with the frequency 
of Punarvasu nakshatra, which gives this lunar mansion a very dignified position 
among other nakshatras. Punarvasu nakshatra in Vedic astrology is reflecting the 
qualities of goddess Aditi, the Cosmic Mother of gods, who created our whole uni- 
verse through countless patterns in nature. It is very important to note that Punar- 
vasu, along with Mula and Purvashadha, are the only three nakshatras in zodiac, 
which are ruled by goddesses, not gods. Aditi is addressed in Vedas also as Bhu 
Devi, Mother Earth, which directly connects her with the cosmic force of gravity. It 
has a very powerful meaning in the light of Kriya yoga. 


As we were observing in the previous chapter the movements of the Sun 
through zodiacal chakras, reflecting the movements of our consciousness within 
our subtle bodies, we came to the conclusion, that the Sun is quite literally per- 
forming kriya yoga in the sky, by moving from one zodiacal chakra to another. 
Metaphorically, it is exactly like that and this is how it looks from the earthly 
perspective of our planet. But in reality, from the perspective of the universe, it 
is the Earth itself that is circling around the Sun, not the opposite. Earth itself is 
circumbulating the Sun, Higher Consciousness, and thus performing the Cosmic 
Kriya in our solar system - and she takes each of us with herself on that sacred 
journey of soul’s evolution. As the energy of Mother Earth, Aditi, is reflected in 
Punarvasu nakshatra, it becomes very logical, that the very same nakshatra has so 
high dignity in the Vedic astrology, that the highest mantra of all was assigned to it 
by Vedic seers: orri. The very same mantra that is “chanted” by our Sun during its 
kriya on our sky. 


Punarvasu nakshatra represents our soul’s evolution from earthly conscious- 
ness to Divine consciousness, as well as the manifestation of the Divine conscious- 
ness on earthly plane. This eternal cosmic cycle always goes both ways. Even 
the shakti of Punarvasu nakshatra is vasutva prapanna Sakti - “the power to gain 
substance, to become manifested” or translated in different manner “the power to 
gain the supreme wealth, which is the Supreme Spirit’. 


Punarvasu nakshatra literally symbolises our consciousness’ ability to ascend 
to the spiritual realm and to descend to the mundane world. It is when Sun en- 
ters this nakshatra that Dakshinayana starts, the downward cycle through zodiacal 
chakras. Here the consciousness reaches zodiacal ajna chakra and starts to go 
downwards. 


Through the primordial sound of orri, through Punarvasu nakshatra the Divine 
consciousness descends into the world to express itself. Although orri is the core 
mantra of ajna chakra, you will notice, that it descends also to vishuddha chakra, 
the chakra of our soul’s expression into the world. You can see the mantra orri one 
of the petals of Cosmic Throat Chakra. Punarvasu is also the last nakshatra out of 


eight, which are forming the Cosmic Throat Chakra. 


It is also very interesting to mention that both manasa nakshatra and karma 
nakshatra of Punarvasu nakshatra are the nakshatras ruled by Agni, the cosmic 
god of fire. The very same nakshatras, mentioned in the previous chapter, which 
dwell on the borders between zodiacal manipura chakra and zodiacal anahata 
chakra: Krittika and Vishakha - both of them being lunar mansions related to cre- 
ativity and the ideas gaining a real substance in the material world. This makes 
Punarvasu nakshatra also a nakshatra of materialisation and creativity. And it 
couldn’t be more accurate. There are specific yogic techniques, which utilise the 
power of the sound om, to create for us a powerful wave of vibrations and thus 
manifest in the outer world any intention that we have in mind. 


One example of such a technique is OM Chanting, which is a part of Atma 
Kriya Yoga, and the only group technique within Atma Kriya Yoga system. OM 
Chanting utilises the power of intention and the sacred vibration om to materialise 
healing in the body of participants, as well as fulfilling other intentions, which the 
participants may have in mind. There are already countless testimonies from all 
around the world about people getting healed even from the diseases considered 
incurable from the point of view of Western medicine, just with the power of om 
during an OM Chanting session. (For more information about OM Chanting go the 
last chapter of this book.) Through the sound om‘we can literally create our own re- 
ality and bring all our inner dissonances into the state of harmony. 


As Punarvasu is the nakshatra of Jupiter, the Guru, the Cosmic Teacher, the 
enlightening mantra om'is indeed the best one to describe the qualities of this as- 
terism. After all, the spiritual enlightenment, that can be experienced in this chakra, 
cannot be given by anybody else but a true, self-realised Guru, who has already 
walked this way before us. 


On the two petals of ajna chakra there are mantras ham'and ksarri. Ham is the 
mantra of Saturn’s nakshatra Uttara Bhadrapada, while ksamis the mantra of Mer- 
cury’s nakshatra Revati. Uttara Bhadrapada and Revati are two last nakshatras of 
the zodiac, which symbolise the ultimate goal of every journey, the spiritual return 
to the Source. This is why Venus, the planet of our heart’s true desire is exalted 
here - as the only true desire of the Soul is to meet with its Beloved, the Cosmic 
Spirit. The deity of Revati nakshatra, where Venus is at its highest exaltation point, 
is Pushan, the Divine Shepherd, who guides all that are lost or on the way towards 
their final goal. Ultimately, it is through ajna chakra that we receive the true Divine 
guidance and enlightenment. 


Mercury, however, the planet that represents our intellect, is debilitated in 
those nakshatras, especially in Revati. The intellect can never comprehend the In- 
finite, and this is the place, where it needs to give up. 


The mantras of those two nakshatras, which are present on the two petals 
of ajna chakra, also tell us a lot about the nature of these nakshatras and third 
eye chakra itself. Ha, the word derived from the mantra ham (the mantra of Ut- 
tara Bhadrapada nakshatra) meant in ancient Sanskrit “Supreme Spirit’, “Vishnu”, 
“sky”, “heavens”, “meditation”, “knowledge” - whilst ksha, derived from mantra 
ksarri (the mantra of Revati nakshatra) meant “ground”, “earth”, “patience”, “en- 
during”, “forgiving”. Ajna chakra is thus an ultimate meeting place of metaphoric 
heaven and earth - the Supreme Consciousness with individual consciousness. 
This reveals the deep esoteric connection between our muladhara chakra and third 


eye chakra. 


Interestingly enough, both words, ksha and ha mean “destruction” as well. 
Ajna chakra is the ultimate seat of consciousness, where all illusions are finally 
destroyed and where we start to truly perceive the reality beyond this, what only 
physical eyes can see - hence it is called “third eye” chakra. It is here, in ajna 
chakra, where Shiva, the Cosmic Destroyer, dwells, to free us from all our illusions 
and misconceptions and to purify our consciousness from all impurities. 


In the greater Cosmic Cycle there seems to be an ultimate beginning and end 
present in ajna chakra, the alpha and omega, as it is here, where a nakshatra from 
Cosmic Root Chakra is present (Uttara Bhadrapada), as well as one nakshatra from 
Cosmic Throat Chakra (Revati). When the pure consciousness in the form of orri vi- 
bration descends from sahasrara into the ajna chakra, it proceeds to evolve through 
vishuddha, anahata, manipura and svadhishtana, until it reaches muladhara chakra 
- and then, from muladhara it returns back to ajna, to start the whole cycle all over 
again, so the Cosmic Cycle can be complete. Ajna chakra is thus the chakra of the 
final goal of life. 


From ajna chakra the cosmic sound orri descends to the throat chakra and 
continues to evolve there. 


Cosmic Throat Chakra 


aie 


Revati ” 
: Te hb am = am —~ Bharani 
im ff 
=~ \aum Trh 
agar ham 
mee orii Uttara urn — aw 


Bhadrapada \ Krittika 
m in—_— 7 
Ardra <5-—— , 
of np rh \ 
Margashirsha “ 


o: \Xg Rohini 
\ 


Rohini 


Throat chakra is the place, in which the unmanifested cosmic consciousness 
becomes manifested in its purest form: in the form of ether element. You can notice 
now, that almost the mantras of vishuddha chakra (except the mantras of Rohini 
nakshatra, the only fixed nakshatra within the Cosmic Throat Chakra range) are 
vowels, the sounds of consciousness. Vowels are the consciousness and the shakti 
of every language. When the consonant is conjoined with a vowel, it reverberates 
through the ether, space and creates a powerful vibration. On the other hand, when 
a consonant is not followed by a vowel, like in the word “punarvasu” the letter “r’ is 
not conjoined with any vowel, the power of such a consonant will be dormant and 


it will stay unmanifested. 


Vowels are also the very first sounds that we learn to make as babies. They 
are our first expression in the world. Sound itself is our first expression in the world, 
when we take our very first breath. Similarly, you will notice, that all the naksha- 
tras related to the mantras of vishuddha chakra have some quality of innocence, 
childishness, curiosity and naivety within themselves. The nakshatras of Cosmic 
Throat Chakra start from Revati and end in Punarvasu, making the throat chakra 
very strongly connected to ajna chakra, the seat of consciousness. This is one of 
the reasons why Sun and Moon, the planets connected to third eye chakra, are 
exalted in the range of Cosmic Throat Chakra. Consciousness and personality find 
their expression here. Saturn, however, the planet of muladhara chakra, is debili- 
tated here, in the invisible, ethereal dominion of throat chakra. 


The nakshatras of all planets, except Saturn, are present in Cosmic Throat 
Chakra. Yet, the mantra of Saturn’s nakshatra Uttara Bhadrapada (again, the 
mantra from Cosmic Third Eye Chakra) is present in the throat chakra as the core 
mantra: ham. In this way the throat chakra, the chakra of our Self’s expression in 
the world, combines the energies of all nine planets. 


Interestingly, first four nakshatras of Cosmic Throat Chakra, Revati, Ashvini, 
Bharani and Krittika, are related to endings and transformation. Revati is the 
nakshatra of finishing the journey and reaching our destination. Ashvini, nakshatra 
of Ketu, is related to all endings in life. Bharani is the nakshatra of Yamaraj, god of 
death. Krittika, as the nakshatra of Agni, is related to burning, transformation, de- 
struction and rebuilding. 


Last four nakshatras of Cosmic Throat Chakra, on the other hand, Rohini, 
Margashirsha, Ardra and Punarvasu, are related to going on journey, growing, 
curiosity, creative self-expression, seeking higher goals in life. Rohini is all about 
growth and seeking higher meaning in life. Margashirsha is about going on a jour- 
ney and search for fulfilment. Ardra is about expressing our individuality into the 
world. Punarvasu is about Divine creativity and bringing the Divine inspiration into 
the world. 


There is also a beautiful symbolism behind the mantras of vishuddha chakra. 
As the cycle starts with the nakshatras Revati and Ashwini, which have ah and 
am as their mantras, together they create a word aham, which means in Sanskrit 
“lam”. It is here, in vishuddha chakra, that consciousness wants to express its 
individuality to the outer world. Indeed, all the nakshatras residing in the Cosmic 
Throat Chakra have a strong quality of independence. 


Yet this aham, this “| am’, can also result with false identification with the 
selfs outer expression, namely, the ego - ahamkara in Sanskrit. Being so, the 
journey through the nakshatras of Cosmic Throat Chakra starts with aham, “I am” 
mantra, and it ends in Punarvasu nakshatra and the mantra orri- the all-embracing 
mantra through which the soul rediscovers its eternal connection with the Divine, 
and allows its individual consciousness to merge again with Cosmic Conscious- 
ness. Thus the journey within vishuddha chakra is the journey from ahamkara (ego) 
to omkara (Cosmic Consciousness). It is here, where Cosmic Consciousness be- 
comes an individual self, and where individual self can return to its original state of 
Cosmic Consciousness, as well. 


Interesting thing is that the nakshatra, which is located just before Punarvasu, 
is Ardra - Betelgeuse, the star of individuality. Even the mantra of this nakshatra 
is aim, which is pronounced as English “I’m”. Ardra nakshatra was considered by 
Vedic seers the direction in our galaxy, from which our souls come from to incar- 


nate on Earth - the direction, from which the Spirit was entering our material plane 
to manifest as an individual self. |n many other cultures we will find a similar sym- 
bolism about Orion constellation, to which Ardra nakshatra belongs. At the same 
time, the deity of this nakshatra is Rudra, Vedic god of storms and destruction. It 
is here, where our individuality is born, but it is also here, where Cosmic Shiva puts 
an end to it, so that “| am” can be purified into orri in Punarvasu nakshatra. At this 
point we can conclude that vishuddha chakra is the place, where our individual self 
is purified, so it can return to its original state of Oneness. This is what truly makes 
this chakra “a great purifier’: vishuddha. 


Cosmic Heart Chakra 


As Pushya 


. = —> 
Citra “ . Ashlesha 
t tharn kam — kharti A 
f tarn gam ) 
yam 
* gharri 
Dhanishta 
f a 
narh \,. Magha 
Hasta 
jam cham cam 
“a 


Purva Phalguni 
Uttara Phalguni ” 


Cosmic Heart Chakra is where the mantras with consonants start - where pure 
Spirit gets slowly condensed into the world of four lower elements, starting with the 
element of air in anahata chakra. 


It is very symbolic that the mantras of anahata chakra start with karri - the 
desire mantra. Our heart chakra is indeed the seat of all our desires, which are 
mere reflections of our soul’s primordial desire to experience its Cosmic Beloved. 
Interesting thing is that “ka” is very often the first syllable that we learn to pro- 
nounce as babies. 


Pushya nakshatra, ruled by Saturn, from which the Cosmic Heart Chakra 
range starts, is right after Punarvasu, the nakshatra from Cosmic Throat Chakra 


range. In Punarvasu the consciousness is in a transition from unmanifested into 
manifested, while in Pushya nakshatra, where the first vowel of Sanskrit alphabet 
karri (the desire mantra) is expressed, the Spirit already gets its form. It is here, 
where, the Cosmic Desire (kam) gets its form in the outer reality (Saturn). Not 
without a reason the cosmic power of this nakshatra is brahma varcasa Sakti - 
“the power to reflect the qualities of God”. It is here, where creation happens in its 
purest form, reflecting the qualities of the Divine Creator within us. 


If you observe all the nakshatras present in the Cosmic Heart Chakra, you will 
notice that the core lessons behind all of them are related to love, desire, attach- 
ment, pleasure, creativity and creative self-expression. Pushya is our heart seeking 
love and nourishment. Ashlesha is our heart seeking emotional security and attach- 
ment. Magha is our heart seeking recognition and honour. Purva Phalguni is our 
heart seeking creativity and pleasure. Uttara Phalguni is our heart seeking taking 
care of others. Hasta is our heart seeking giving and receiving. Chitra is our heart 
seeking beauty and abundance. 


Pushya represents our heart's most spiritual values, while Chitra is the most 
materialistic of all. This reveals to us the descent of consciousness through the 
Cosmic Heart Chakra, heading towards Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra. 


The nakshatras present in the Cosmic Heart Chakra represent our heart’s 
truest and deepest desires that we seek in this world. Yet, all those nakshatras are 
present in zodiacal third eye and throat chakras. This reveals to us, that in reality, 
all those desires that we seek in the outer world, we can find only within ourselves, 
through the contact with our Higher Self, symbolised by the higher chakras. This is 
the main lesson that we learn on the level of heart chakra. 


Interesting thing is that the core mantra of heart chakra is: yam. It is not only 
the mantra of Dhanishta nakshatra, the nakshatra representing the awakening of 
kundalini shakti in muladhara chakra, but it is also the mantra of restraint. Yama, 
whose name is derived from the mantra yam is not only the Vedic god of death, but 
his name means also “restraint” and “self-control”. Interestingly enough, in Vedic 
astrology Yama is the god of nakshatra Bharani, also ruled by Venus. It reveals to 
us that whenever the energy of Venus, the heart and its desires, is very strong, there 
is also a need for restraint and self-control. Ultimately, whenever a planet would re- 
side in one of the nakshatras of Venus or within the range of Cosmic Heart Chakra, 
it shows that there is a specific karma related to heart and its desires that needs to 
be purified. Restraint and self-control are the most powerful purifiers for the desire 
and attachment. 


Another interesting thing is that Venus is debilitated within the range of Cosmic 
Heart Chakra. Venus is not satisfied with any qualities that are lower than its pri- 
mordial yearning for Cosmic Beloved, and thus all the mundane desires of heart 


chakra are only binding it more to the world of attachment, taking it more far away 
from its true goal. Looking at it from another angle, in zodiac, Venus is debilitated 
on the “half way” of the zodiac, in the sign of Virgo. It is also here, in the heart 
chakra, where our ida and pingala, the feminine and the masculine within us meet 
on the half way, before their destination point and final merging in the third eye 
chakra, the chakra of unity. Here Venus is forced to experience Love through the 
perishable world of duality, with all its temporary desires and attachments, which 
only bind it and don’t allow our hearts to express their true potential of Divine, all- 
encompassing Love, that our souls yearn to express. 


Jupiter, the lord of the sacral chakra, is, however, exalted here. Its nourishing 
energy can flourish in the realm of heart chakra and its expansive qualities of 
optimism, faith and belief in the Higher Consciousness are uplifting for the heart 
chakra, too. 


Mars, the lord of manipura chakra, is debilitated in the realm of Cosmic Heart 
Chakra. Here his power to take action is dominated by emotions, attachments and 
needs for security and comfort, present in the heart chakra. After all, heart chakra 
is the region of air element - the place, where fire has already extinguished and 
turned into something more subtle. 


Mercury, on the other hand is exalted in the range of Cosmic Heart Chakra, in 
zodiacal vishuddha chakra. Here the intellect is purified by the power of the heart, 
and it starts to look towards the infinite, which is symbolised by Mercury casting his 
aspect on the sign of Pisces from his exaltation place. 


As you may remember, Chitra nakshatra, the last one in the cycle of Cosmic 
Heart Chakra, is also the nakshatra on the border of zodiacal vishuddha and 
anahata (Virgo and Libra) in the downward cycle, along with Margashirsha, another 
nakshatra of Mars, on the other side of the zodiac (Taurus and Gemini) in the 
upward cycle. Margashirsha from Cosmic Throat Chakra and Chitra from Cosmic 
Heart Chakra reflect a very similar energy, but with slightly different quality. Mar- 
gashirsha is the seeking nakshatra, which firstly is seeking fulfilment in the jungle of 
material world, but not finding its satisfaction there, it turns towards a higher, spir- 
itual search. Chitra, on the other hand, is where our soul forgets about its sacred 
treasure inside (symbolised by the pearl: the symbol of this nakshatra), infatuated 
by the illusory beauty of the outer world, and starts to look for fulfilment in the 
outside. But, similarly like Margashirsha, it cannot find it in the outside, as its main 
lesson is to start looking for beauty, harmony and fulfilment within one’s own heart. 


Chitra nakshatra is the place where the consciousness of heart chakra turns 
into the consciousness of solar plexus chakra. 


Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra 


aN ra sy 
ho ase i dam ‘ aaa 
: ie a 7s > 
‘pham wt ** dham Vishaka 
1 ! A 
,pam nam 
s. es 
Be ram 
Mula ae 
BK Dhanishta ‘., 
~ narh tam + 
: dham . : vs, tham ; Papers 
ees 3 bei > sy Anuradha 
Jyeshta-<c— *s dam a 
Anuradha / 


Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra consists of the most intense, passionate, chaotic 
and transformative nakshatras. That is why both Sun and Moon, which represent 
our personality and consciousness, are debilitated in this range: Sun in Libra, Moon 
in Scorpio. It is here, where personality and consciousness are transformed: some- 
times for the better, sometimes for the worse. A part of us dies here and a new part 
of us is born. 


Saturn, however, is exalted in this range of the zodiac. Here Saturn’s transfor- 
mational power to confront us with the truth and reality gets its full manifestation. 
Here, in Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra, where selfishness and ego can often prevail, 
Saturn takes the biggest pleasure to teach us some humility, and thus truly trans- 
forms us in the fire of wisdom. 


All the nakshatras present in Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra have this intensity 
of fire element. In Swati the fire is enhanced by the air element (its presiding deity 
is Vayu, the wind god) and the need for freedom and independence, which can 
make our inner flames chaotic. In Vishakha, the nakshatra of Agni himself, the fire is 
enhanced by ego’s need for fame and abundance. In Anuradha the fiery quality of 
passion and dedication awakens. In Jyeshta the inner fire is manifested as power, 
authority and our ability to fight, as well as us our strive for perfection. In Mula the 
fire’s true transformational and destructive power is manifested, which finishes all 


that is old and out-dated within us. Even if you look at the mantras of these naksha- 
tras, such as tarri, tharri, dam, they are strong, rhythmical, reverberating with power. 


The core mantra of solar plexus chakra is rani, the mantra of Dhanishta 
nakshatra, in which Mars is exalted in the zodiac. Rama means “splendid”, “beau- 
tiful’, “delightful”, “pleasing”, as well as “opulence” and “fortune”, which are the 
main motivations on the level of manipura chakra. Rama was also one of the 
avatars of Vishnu, who showed through his own example, how the fighting ability, 
power, authority, individuality, strive for perfection and independence of manipura 
chakra can be manifested in the most Divine way in a human. It is not a coinci- 


dence that His name is the same as the core mantra for healing this chakra. 


It is also interesting to notice, that as much as the last nakshatra from Cosmic 
Heart Chakra range, Chitra, has some qualities of manipura chakra, similarly, Swati, 
the first nakshatra of Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra range, has some qualities (air 
element) of anahata chakra. As the consciousness descends smoothly from ajna 
chakra to vishuddha chakra, and from vishuddha chakra to anahata chakra, so it de- 
scends smoothly from anahata chakra to manipura chakra. 


It teaches us a lot about the nature of chakras, actually. Chakras are in reality 
not a totally separate energy centres with totally different frequencies, but they are 
rather ranges of frequencies, which simply indicate different density of manifesta- 
tion of consciousness into the world. All of them work in one harmonious cycle. 
Only when our chakras are out of balance, then a huge dissonance between their 
frequencies can be experienced. But in their original state, they smoothly work 
together. This state of inner harmony is what we are experiencing in such medita- 
tion practices like Atma Kriya Yoga. 


Cosmic Sacral Chakra 


Purva Ashadha 


Shatabhisha barn Uttara Ashadha 
‘ 7 
lam bham 
vam 
Purva 
Bhadrapada 
Shravana 


—7 


ram mam 
{ yam 
Dhanishta <~ 


Cosmic Sacral Chakra consists of the nakshatras deeply related to the ele- 
ment of water. This cycle starts with Purvashadha nakshatra, which is ruled by the 
feminine deity Apas, the goddess of cosmic waters and purification, and ends with 
Shatabhisha nakshatra, which has as its presiding deity Varuna, the god of under- 
water world and cosmic order. 


As water element is the source of life on Earth, so the Divine Laws are sus- 
taining the cosmic balance, so the life can harmoniously continue to grow. All the 
nakshatras within the range of Cosmic Sacral Chakra are deeply connected with 
dharma, the cosmic law, and karma, the law of cause and effect, both of them reg- 
ulating the cosmic balance and protecting the harmonious cycle of life. 


Cosmic Sacral Chakra, being the seat of the element of water, brings the 
opportunity for purification. In Purvashadha nakshatra the soul can get purified of 
its karma by the power of repentance and self-control. In Uttarashadha nakshatra 
the soul is getting purified by the power of selfless action. In Shravana the purifica- 
tion happens through humility, introspection, listening and patience. In Dhanishta 
purification happens through righteous action and awakening of consciousness. In 
Shatabhisha purification happens through the healing power of forgiveness. 


One message underlying all those nakshatras is: let go and go with the flow. 
Here, in Cosmic Sacral Chakra, the true flow in life can be experienced. 


Similarly like Venus is debilitated in its own chakra, Jupiter is also debilitated in 
Cosmic Sacral Chakra. Here our belief system, symbolised by Jupiter, is put to test 
and our karma is returned, which can be sometimes discouraging for our faith (the 


quality of Jupiter) and optimism. 


Mars, however, is surprisingly exalted here. How can the planet of fire be 
exalted in the cosmic chakra of water? Interestingly enough, even the core mantra 
of manipura chakra is the mantra from the vibratory range of svadhishtana chakra. 
The element of water is cooling the fire and stabilises it. Besides that, the ulti- 
mate motivation of fire is transformation. Transformation happens, when an entity 
changes its state and becomes something new. Fire is thus paradoxically exalted 
in the cosmic chakra of water, when it is becoming something new and totally 
different. 


There is, however, even deeper, esoteric meaning to that. The element of water 
is also greatly related to our sphere of spiritual practice and our spiritual growth. 
Even in Vastu the place in the living space, which is ruled by water element, is 
the best place for meditation. Mars, after performing all the actions in the outer 
world, is exalted here, in the Cosmic Sacral Chakra, in the nakshatra of Dhanishta, 
which symbolises awakening of consciousness (awakening of kundalini shakti in 
muladhara chakra), where it can finally perform the most perfect inner action of ris- 
ing towards the Divine. 


The core mantra of sacral chakra is varri, the mantra of Purva Bhadrapada 
nakshatra from the range of Cosmic Root Chakra. This nakshatra, being the 
nakshatra of Jupiter, is the most intense nakshatra within the zodiac symbolising 
the awakening of Kundalini shakti. This is also the most fiery of all the nakshatras. 
Mantra varriis bringing the fiery quality of focus, awakening and transformation into 
the waters of sacral chakra, so the meditation doesn’t turn into lethargy, but instead 
truly raises our consciousness and awakens it. 


Cosmic Root Chakra 


a lam Rs: 
Uttara Bhadrapada ( Purva Bhadrapada 
QL Shatabhisha _7 


a 


Cosmic Root Chakra consists of only two nakshatras: Purva Bhadrapada 
and Uttara Bhadrapada. As at the base of muladhara chakra rests our dormant 
kundalini shakti, it is not strange that these two sister nakshatras are strongly 
connected to this powerful spiritual force within us. Both of these nakshatras have 
as their presiding deities the two different forms of Rudra, Shiva - both in the 
form of sacred snakes: Aja Ekapada (Purva Bhadrapada) and Ahir Budhnya (Ut- 
tara Bhadrapada). Both representing the opposite forces present in our muladhara 
chakra, the masculine (Purva Bhadrapada) and the feminine (Uttara Bhadrapada). 
One being a forceful power of spiritual awakening, another being the stabilising and 
grounding factor within us - both absolutely necessary in the process of spiritual 
development. 


Purva Bhadrapada, the fiery nakshatra of Jupiter, Cosmic Teacher, represents 
the powerful transformative force of our kundalini shakti awakening at the base of 
our subtle spine, sushumna. Not without a reason a symbol of this nakshatra is a 
pillar. This pillar is nothing else but our subtle sushumna _ nadi, through which our 
kundalini shakti is rising, when our consciousness awakens. Being a nakshatra of 
Jupiter, Purva Bhadrapada teaches us that this powerful process should always 
happen under the guidance of a true Guru, a true self-realised master, like it hap- 
pens in the process of Atma Kriya Yoga. Otherwise this powerful energy can get out 
of control too easily and become chaotic, bringing to the surface of our conscious- 
ness more energies that we are able to deal with at the moment. 


Purva Bhadrapada is also a nakshatra of cosmic unity. A pillar represents 
spiritual axis mundi, the one spiritual basis of the manifested world. As the deity of 
this nakshatra is Aja Ekapad, one-footed serpent, it is a metaphor of one spiritual 
root, which everybody is coming from, and which everybody needs to rediscover 
at one point in life. This one-footed rudra, is sometimes said to be Shiva Nataraj 
himself, the dancing Shiva, who is standing on one leg in his dancing pose. When 
Shiva is dancing, the cosmic cycle of destruction happens. Similarly, when our 
consciousness and kundalini shakti awaken in the process of scientific meditation 
(represented by Shiva), the destruction of the structures of our ego happens. 


Uttara Bhadrapada nakshatra is a stabilising force for this electric current of 
spiritual energy awakening at the bottom of our spine. This nakshatra of Saturn is 
all about finding stability, establishing strong foundation and being grounded. The 
deity of this nakshatra is Ahir Budhnya, who is none different than Ananta Shesha 
himself, the cosmic serpent, who serves as the bed for god of cosmic mainte- 
nance, Vishnu, laying on the ocean of all causes. “Ahir Budhnya’” literally means 
“the one, who carries the burden of the universe”. It is said that countless universes 
are lying on the heads of Ananta Shesha and he mercifully provides them support, 
while he has no support on his own. Uttara Bhadrapada represents thus such 
qualities of our muladhara chakra as stability, dedication, self-sacrifice, grounding, 


selflessness, service, responsibility and loyalty - the most Divine qualities of Sat- 
urn, the planet related to that chakra. 


Uttara Bhadrapada nakshatra represents also the need to “lower” ourselves 
and deal with the problems and challenges of material world. That is why whenever 
a person has some planets in this nakshatra (which denotes some karma related 
to the issues of this nakshatra, stored in the muladhara chakra), one will often feel 
overburdened by the world and the problems of this world. Yet, while facing these 
problems, such a person will learn to be more humble and grounded in this life- 
time, as well as more strong. Initially such a person won't receive much help from 
the world, but eventually, when the person will surrender wholeheartedly to his/her 
duties, like Ananta Shesha does, the Divine will send them help from above. Uttara 
Bhadrapada is all about accepting our duties, the burden of the world and the real- 
ity exactly the way it is. 


Purva Bhadrapada nakshatra and Uttara Bhadrapada nakshatra are the two 
forces that always go together. One pushes us forward on the path of spiritual 
development, while the other stabilises us on our path and keeps us humble. 
They represent the two feet that we are standing on, which reminds us about our 
connection to the Earth and earth element. If any of these two nakshatras gets out 
of balance, the other is misbalanced immediately, as they are like two sides of the 
same coin. If we would compare Purva Bhadrapada to electric current of spiritual 
energy within us, Uttara Bhadrapada could be compared to magnetic field, or even 
gravity itself, which stabilises this awakening of cosmic energy within us. 


The core mantra of root chakra is fami, the sacred mantra of Shatabhisha 
nakshatra, which is the last nakshatra in Cosmic Sacral Chakra range. As the core 
mantra of sacral chakra is derived from the range of frequencies found in the root 
chakra, so the core mantra for root chakra is derived from the range of frequencies 
of sacral chakra, revealing the deep connection between those two. 


The deity of Shatabhisha, Varuna, the god of cosmic order, reflects the quali- 
ties of root chakra. Varuna shows the need to bring balance and righteousness into 
the world. Yet, at the same time he is also the god of all our karma. The noose in 
his hand represents the karma that we accumulated through many lifetimes, which 
will return to us sooner or later. His message is: “You reap what you sow’. This 
message is deeply connected with Saturn and his energy reflected in our mulad- 
hara chakra. 


It is also very important to note, that Shatabhisha is a nakshatra of Rahu. Rahu 
is this factor that is pushing us to go beyond our boundaries, beyond the density 
of earth element present in muladhara chakra, so our consciousness can awaken 
and see something beyond the world of matter. Mantra /am is this awakening factor 
for our consciousness. Yet, the motivation of Shatabhisha is not to awake our con- 


sciousness, SO we may run away from the world, but it rather encourages us to see 
the wholeness of the Spirit in the world around us, and to bring the Divine insights 
and ideas into the world of matter, for the benefit of all. It is all about healing and 
uplifting the humanity, about making things whole and complete again. Not without 
a reason a symbol of this nakshatra is an empty circle. It is about bringing the world 
of spirituality and the world of materialism together, and living in the field of spiri- 
tual unity. 


Interesting thing to notice is that both Cosmic Third Eye Chakra and Cosmic 
Root Chakra consist mainly of the nakshatras of Jupiter and Saturn. Cosmic Third 
Eye Chakra is combined of the energies of Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury, while 
Cosmic Root Chakra is combined of the energies of Jupiter, Saturn and Rahu - the 
awakening factor of going beyond our boundaries. Here, in Cosmic Root Chakra, 
the cycle of creation completes, and it returns back to its source in the Spirit, Cos- 
mic Third Eye Chakra, where the cycle becomes truly complete with the two last 
nakshatras of the zodiac: Uttara Bhadrapada and Revati. 


Completeness of Cosmic Cycle 


The knowledge within this chapter is very sacred and it allows us to dig much 
deeper into the significance of the nakshatras, their true meaning and the energies 
that they truly represent in our subtle body, making a real connection between the 
macrocosm and the microcosm. The more | study this beautiful cosmic cycle, the 
more | learn about it, the more humbled | feel by the Divine genius of Cosmic 
Creator, which is visible all around us. The cosmic cycle is beautiful and complete, 
and it indeed reflects the completeness of the totality of energies, shaktis, within 
ourselves. 


In next chapters, | will share with you some techniques, in which you can use 
the knowledge about the cycle of Cosmic Chakras. But | encourage you to not 
stop on that. Meditate on the nakshatras on your own, chant their mantras on their 
respective days, connect with their frequencies and make your own discoveries. 
Because there is truly infinite source of knowledge stored in this beautiful universe 
called you. 


Go to top 


Chapter 5 
Evaluating Your Chakras with Vedic Astrology 


The profound knowledge about the chakras and their respective planets, zo- 
diac signs, nakshatras, as well as their significance in the Cosmic Cycle of life, can 
have many practical uses in Vedic astrology. But even if you are not an astrologer, 
you can still benefit from this knowledge with the use of one simple technique that | 
am going to teach you in this chapter. This unique astrological technique will allow 
you to evaluate your own chakras in a very accurate way, even if you have no 
knowledge of Vedic astrology. And, if you are an astrologer already, this technique 
can provide you a profound insight into any chart, which you are already studying. 


All you need for this technique is an exact date, hour and place of birth of 
yourself or the person, on whom you would like to try this technique. It can be, 
however, also quite accurately applied even to a person, whose exact hour of birth 
you do not know. 


Once you have this data, just input it to any astrology program or an online 
calculator to get the main chart of the person and the exact placement of the plan- 
ets in the nakshatras and their padas. 


Each nakshatra is divided into four parts, called padas. 27 nakshatras x 4 
padas = sacred number 108. Each of the 12 zodiac sign consists of nine such 
padas. A divisional chart achieved by diving each sign in the main (rashi) chart into 
nine parts, and realigning the planets accordingly is called navamsha. 


Why to divide a chart into nine parts? 9 divisions x 12 zodiacal signs = 108, 
representing the totality of sacred energies within ourselves. Through navamsha 
chart we get a true insight about the dignity of the planets in your main chart, as 
well as we get to know their secret agenda, which reveals the sacred path of your 
soul within this lifetime. Although using the technique, which | am going to describe 
below, even with the date from the main rashi chart only, will bring a certain effect, 
too, it won't be so accurate as if navamsha chart is taken into consideration as 
well - and the difference can be quite significant sometimes. Yet, you don’t need 
to bother yourself with creating a navamsha chart to get the data you need, as just 
by knowing the exact padas of the nakshatras, in which your planets are placed, 
you can already determine their positions in navamsha easily, and that is all that is 
needed for the technique to work accurately for you. 


How much karma is stored in your chakras 


Just with the data mentioned above, namely, with the main rashi chart and 
exact placement of the planets in the nakshatras and their padas, you can very 


effectively evaluate, how much karma do you have stored in each of your chakras, 
even without any other advanced knowledge of astrology. This method is also very 
accurate in finding the true dignity of any planet in your horoscope. By using this 
technique we will count the spread of your karma through your chakras in percent- 
age. The result will look as on the picture below: 


Crp 
&f 


vv 
ra 


os 
Credited 
we 


te 


Manipuee 20% 


ee) 


yr 
wa 
hor 


Vv 
r- 


Miladhace 


The chakra, which has the biggest score on the picture above, is the chakra on 
which you need to work the most in this lifetime, as it indicates the biggest amount 
of karma stored in that chakra. It also reveals that the majority of your life lessons 
will come to you in this life through this chakra. 


Now, when you have the knowledge of aromatherapy for chakras, yogasanas 
for chakras, or any other therapy, it can become for you a very insightful tool, for 
choosing the right remedy for yourself or another person. 


Nakshatras and chakras table 


Have a quick look at the chart below. You will find there a condensed 
information about each nakshatra and the chakras it is related to, so it easier for 
you to apply the technique that we are going to discuss. In the first row of the chart 
you will see the name of the nakshatra and in the second row there is a planetary 
ruler of that nakshatra. In the third row you will see the zodiacal sign or signs this 
nakshatra belongs to. As there are 27 nakshatras spread around the 12 zodiacal 
signs, some nakshatras will have one portion in one zodiac sign and another por- 
tion in another zodiac sign, like the “frontier” nakshatras that we discussed in chap- 
ters before. In the fourth row you will see how different padas indicate the different 
zodiacal sign the planet occupies in navamsha divisional chart. In the fifth row of 
this chart you will see to which of the Cosmic Chakras does that nakshatra belong. 


You will also notice that there is a number close to each planet, zodiacal sign, 
pada or Cosmic Chakra. This is a simplified assignment of each planet, zodiacal 
sign or Cosmic Chakra to the exact chakra in our subtle body. Each number repre- 


sents respectively: 


1: Root chakra - muladhara 

2: Sacral chakra - svadhishtana 
3: Solar plexus chakra - manipura 
4: Heart chakra - anahata 

5: Throat chakra - vishuddha 

6: Third eye chakra - ajna 


| 
Nakshatra Planet Sign Pada Cosmic cycle 


Ashwini Aries (3) 1(3) Cosmic Throat Chakra (5) 


Bharani Aries (3) 1(6) Cosmic Throat Chakra (5) 
2(5) 
3(4) 
4(3) 
Krittika Aries (3) 1(2) Cosmic Throat Chakra (5) 
Taurus(4) 2(1) 


Taurus(4) Cosmic Throat Chakra (5) 


Margashirsha Taurus(4) Cosmic Throat Chakra (5) 


— 
Gemini (5) 


Gemini (5) 1(2) Cosmic Throat Chakra (5) 


— 


Punarvasu Jupiter (2) Gemini (5) 1(3) Cosmic Throat Chakra (5) 


Cancer (6) 
on Be 


Cancer (6) Cosmic Heart Chakra (4) 


Ashlesha Cancer (6) Cosmic Heart Chakra (4) 


Nakshatra 


Magha 


Purva Phalguni 


Uttara Phalguni 


Chitra 


Vishakha 


Anuradha 


Jyeshta 


Cosmic cycle 


Cosmic Heart Chakra (4) 


Cosmic Heart Chakra (4) 


Cosmic Heart Chakra (4) 


Virgo (5) 


Virgo (5) Cosmic Heart Chakra (4) 


Virgo (5) Cosmic Heart Chakra (4) 


Libra (4) 


Libra (4) Cosmic Solar Plexus 
Chakra (3) 


Jupiter (2) Libra (4) Cosmic Solar Plexus 
Chakra (3) 


Scorpio (3) 


Saturn(1) Scorpio (3) Cosmic Solar Plexus 
Chakra (3) 


4(3) 
Scorpio (3) 1(2) Cosmic Solar Plexus 


Chakra (3) 


3(1) 
4(2) 


Nakshatra 


Mula 


Purvashadha 


Uttarashadha 


Shravana 


Dhanishta 


Shatabhisha 


Purva Bhadrapada 


Jupiter (2) 


Uttara Bhadrapada 


Saturn(1) 


Revati 


Sagittarius (2) 


Sagittarius (2) 


Sagittarius (2) 


Capricorn (1) 


Capricorn (1) 


Capricorn (1) 


Aquarius (1) 


Aquarius (1) 


Aquarius (1) 


Pisces (2) 
Pisces (2) 


Pisces (2) 


3(1) 
4(2) 


Cosmic cycle 


Cosmic Solar Plexus 
Chakra (3) 


Cosmic Sacral Chakra (2) 


Cosmic Sacral Chakra (2) 


Cosmic Sacral Chakra (2) 


Cosmic Sacral Chakra (2) 


Cosmic Sacral Chakra (2) 


Cosmic Root Chakra (1) 


Cosmic Root Chakra (1) 


Cosmic Throat Chakra (5) 


Frequencies working behind the nakshatras 


Thus, according to the table above, each nakshatra will be related to the 
energies of at least three different chakras. Nakshatra Bharani, for example, is the 
nakshatra of Venus (4: planet of the heart chakra), it resides in the sign of Aries (3: 
it is zodiacal solar plexus chakra), and its frequency is within the range of Cosmic 
Throat Chakra (5). And if, for example, your Sun is placed in the first pada of Bha- 
rani nakshatra, in the sign of Aries in rashi chart, and in the sign of Leo (6: zodiacal 
ajna chakra) in navamsha, you are getting one more digit from the placement of the 
planet in the navamsha chart: 6. In short, there would be four different digits related 
to Bharani nakshatra: 4, 3 and 5, 6. 


There is no number assigned to the nakshatras belonging to Rahu and Ketu, 
as neither Rahu nor Ketu are related to any of the chakras. This is also a very 
interesting thing to ponder about. No digit is going to mean less karma in the total 
score in the technique that we are going to learn - and this means less karma 
stored in the chakras. Indeed there is something special about the nakshatras of 
Rahu and Ketu. Activated nakshatras of Rahu and Ketu bring into our lives many 
opportunities for finishing our karmas from the past and advance spiritually in life. 
The most spiritual people, that | was analysing so far, had, indeed, a lot of planets 
in the nakshatras of Rahu and/or Ketu. 


The Technique 


The technique for evaluating your chakras and the amount of karma seeds 
stored in them is very easy. First step is to fill the table below for each planet, as 
well as the ascendant, with the digits from the chart above, based on individual 
planetary placements of a person. So, if your Sun is placed in the first pada of 
Bharani nakshatra, in the sign of Aries, in the first row you would put number 4 (as 
this is the nakshatra of Venus), in the second row you would put number 3 (as it 
falls in the sign of Aries), in the third row you would put number 5 (as it is within 
the range of Cosmic Throat Chakra), and in the fourth row you would put number 6 
(as first pada of Bharani nakshatra falls in the sign of Leo in navamsha chart). If the 
nakshatra is ruled by Rahu or Ketu, then leave the field free. 


Now, fill the table below with your details. 


Planet Nakshatra Cosmic cycle 
wee es 
Sun 


Mercury 
Venus 


Ss 
[Ss 
Mars 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Rahu 

Ketu 


Each number one represents the karma stored in your muladhara chakra. 
Each number two represents the karma stored in your svadhishtana chakra. Each 
number three is your karma in manipura chakra. Each number four is your karma 
in anahata chakra. Each number five is your karma in vishuddha chakra. And each 
number six is your karma in ajna chakra. Being so, just by looking at a table above, 
you can already see, in which chakras you have the most karma stored in this 
lifetime. 


Once you have this data, the only thing you need to do is to count each of the 
repeating numbers: how much ones, twos, threes, fours, fives and sixths do you 


have in your score. Then enter it in the table below: 


Et voila. Here is your personal chakra score according to Vedic astrology. 


Now, let us do some study case, so you can see more clearly how does it work 
and how much information about your chakras you can learn just by studying your 
natal chart. 


Chakra evaluating technique: study case 


It is always easier to learn a new technique on an exact example. The example 
below is one of my friends, whom | know well enough, to dig deeply into her chart, 


and show you, how her planets, zodiac signs and nakshatras manifest through her 
own chakras in a real life. 


Her planetary placements are: 


Planet Nakshatra Sign Sign in navamsha 


Sun KCve-ti Filed 5 agit tacit 


Moon Mti-e.vane<’ fc/iiCCin Sagittatins 


Mercury k ifeviditiniiLfCuja ‘ * tg ajeceins 
Venus 4 faint 


Mars th/r: Scgit tacias 


4 faint Aeics 
Swedi 


lidec j \ Safittitiuit * 


Now, let’s put that data into our chart with numbers: 


Mercury 


~~ 
~~ 


Nakshatra 


P 


Jupiter 


Saturn 
Rahu 
Ketu 


Ascendant 


Her total score is: 


| 
Nis 


Male ~M Sac /~IN 


In percentage this would be: 


©) 
** 


ww 
wee, 
Cthohata> 
avo i 


Lp 
{ c 
4 


Manipyee | 20% | 
rN 
| 
V 


r | 
co. | 
_* 


Now, let us analyse, how does it really manifest in her life. 


Cosmic influences in a real life 


As you can see on the picture above, her third eye chakra and heart chakra are 
very strong, with the smallest amount of karma stored in them. Five of her planets 
are also residing in the nakshatras of lunar nodes (two nakshatras of Rahu and 
three nakshatras of Ketu). On addition to that, all her planets are placed between 
Ketu and Rahu, which forms kala amrita yoga, which we were talking about in the 
second chapter. These are three strong indications that this person is a so-called 
“old soul”, who already experienced a lot in the world of matter, and whose primary 
motivation in this lifetime is spiritual development. 


Indeed, this person has chosen a spiritual path early on in this lifetime. She 


accepted a guru and she has even become a brahmacharini, a Hindu nun, who 
lives in celibacy. Her third eye chakra and heart chakra are beautifully developed, 
which allows her to have a really profound connection with the Divine and her 
Satguru. Yet the remaining four chakras are a bit out of balance, when compared 
to her anahata and ajna chakra, and through these chakras the biggest amount of 
karma is manifested in her life. 


Firstly, have a close look at her Mars. Her Mars is residing in the fiery and 
active sign of Sagittarius, in the fierce Mula nakshatra. Now, look at her Rahu re- 
siding along with Venus in Aries, a sign ruled by Mars. These three planets, Mars, 
Venus and Rahu have a similar agenda for her in this lifetime, as all three of them 
occupy the same sign in navamsha chart: Gemini. As Rahu usually expands the 
qualities of the sign itis sitting in, along with the planet ruling it (Mars in this case), 
just by looking at her chart, and the placements of her Mars, Venus and Rahu, it 
would be logical to conclude, that her solar plexus chakra is rather strong, and that 
she is well motivated, determined and focused person. 


Well, nothing more misguiding. In reality she is a person, that has a hard time 
with taking any decisions in life, often procrastinates things, but at the same time 
sometimes lacks the patience and faith in God’s perfect plan for her soul. She 
tends to doubt herself a lot, too, and she always doubts any decision that she 
makes, which is putting her in a state of constant confusion and regret: either for 
the wrong decision that have been taken or decisions that haven’t been taken on 
time. 


Now, what is causing that? 


This is Saturn retrograde in the sign of Scorpio, in Anuradha nakshatra. 
Although Saturn in the sign of Scorpio on itself is doing quite well according to 
traditional science of Vedic astrology, it can significantly “slow down” the fire of 
manipura chakra in our subtle body, especially if supported by other planetary 
placements. Saturn is not only the main significator of our karma, but it is also 
the slowest moving planet representing our muladhara chakra and its most dense 
element of earth, which is the hardest to change. When it dwells in the zodiacal 
manipura chakra, and especially in Scorpio, it brings a significant karma luggage 
into our manipura chakra. Scorpio is not only zodiacal manipura chakra, but its 
nakshatras are also entirely present in the range of Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra. 
In a case of this person, Saturn additionally occupies same sign in rashi and 
navamsha charts, which magnifies this influence. Being in retrograde motion, and 
present in the same sign of rashi and navamsha, Saturn reveals that this person 
will need to go through karmic lessons related with her manipura chakra and the 
element of fire in her subtle body, over and over again. It reveals also a capacity to 
learn on her mistakes, yet, due to the fact that Saturn is a very slow-moving planet, 
this learning process will take a pretty big part of her life. Particularly with Saturn 


retrograde and in this specific placement, it reveals that she will need to repeat the 
mistakes related to her manipura chakra over and over again, until she finally gets 
her cosmic lesson in this lifetime. 


As her Mars is present in the Mula nakshatra (nakshatra of Ketu) in the sign 
of Sagittarius, which is ruled by Jupiter and thus is considered a zodiacal second 
chakra, it reveals that most of these lessons she will experience through the world 
of spirituality and directly through the connection with her Guru. Mars present in 
this specific position reveals that she might have a hard time listening to her Guru’s 
advice, or fulfilling her Guru’s wishes on time, as well as she may experience 
certain confusion each time she hears the advice of her Guru (influence of Ketu 
from Mula nakshatra). This will often lead her to not listening to her Guru and it 
will become the biggest cause of misfortune and regret for her in this lifetime. And, 
whenever that would happen, she would blame herself, which is indicated again by 
Saturn retrograde occupying the sign of Scorpio and his own nakshatra Anuradha. 
As Anuradha is the nakshatra of devotion, she will need to repeat many times in life 
the lessons related to devotion, as this is where her inner fire “fails” to work prop- 
erly, with such a cold planet as Saturn dwelling there. 


It is also important very important to note, that three malefics, Ketu, Saturn 
and Mars, are residing exactly in the range of Cosmic Solar Plexus Chakra in her 
horoscope, which forms a heavy karmic burden within her manipura chakra. \|n 
addition to that, none of her planets is residing in any of the nakshatras of Mars, 
which doesn’t provide her any additional support in making decisions and taking 
actions on time. 


Now, have a look at her vishuddha chakra. It has a very high score, which 
indicates greatly exaggerated element of ether. This usually brings a lot of unset- 
tlement in life. Remember, ether is all about fast exchange of energies and fast ex- 
change of information. And indeed, all her life, she cannot find her dwelling place, 
her real home. She keeps changing her places all the time, along with the countries 
she lives in, and she cannot find any satisfaction, wherever she goes. 


A very exaggerated element of ether gives her also a very childish look, a big 
dose of naivety and certain innocence. Do you remember, how we were discussing 
the nakshatras within the Cosmic Throat Chakra range and their “childish” quali- 
ties? This is exactly, what gives her that, three planets and the ascendant present 
in the nakshatras of Cosmic Throat Chakra: Revati, Ashwini and Punarvasu. 


At the end, let’s have a short look at her Jupiter. You can clearly see on the 
score below, that her element of water and svadhishtana chakra are also carrying 
a heavy karmic burden. Jupiter, the lord of the sacral chakra, is present in the 
nakshatra Shatabhisha, the nakshatra of Rahu within the Cosmic Sacral Chakra 
range, with Varuna, the god of underwater world, as its deity. Additionally, her 


Moon, which is also a planet connected to water element, dwells within the range 
of Cosmic Sacral Chakra as well, in Shravana nakshatra. This gives immense 
strength to the water element in her body, but also a lot of karmic lessons to 
be learned through it, as Jupiter, the Cosmic Teacher, never enjoys sitting in the 
nakshatra of Rahu, the Cosmic Rebellion. 


Indeed, through her svadhishtana chakra, she has probably learned some of 
her most painful spiritual lessons, most of them related to controlling the sexual 
energy, but also her emotions in general. Lack of control over water element is a 
factor that seems to always cause problems on her spiritual path, in this form or an- 
other. Sometimes it manifests as inability to control the sexual energy, sometimes it 
manifests as too emotional nature, sometimes as lack of direction in life (water has 
no shape) and sometimes as lack of ability to take the decision on time - as water is 
always extinguishing the inner fire. And if the fire element is not by itself very strong, 
the exaggerated water element in the svadhishtana chakra will additionally disrupt 
it, as it is happening in her case. 


To make full analysis like that it would take loads of pages and it would 
require going really deeply into another person’s privacy, which we are not going 
to do here, as this is not the point. You can analyse similarly any of her planetary 
placements and any of her chakras - and the deeper knowledge of astrology, and 
especially nakshatras, you have, the more accurate connections you will make. By 
looking at a horoscope through the lens of chakras and elements, you can identify 
much quicker the core issues in the life of any person, which are the root causes 
of the things that keep happening in this person’s life - and thus choose more ac- 
curate remedies, as well, by encouraging a person to work on exact chakra. This is 
a very deep and sacred knowledge, which not only allows to make more accurate 
predictions, but to actually help the person more effectively in his/her unique path 
of soul’s development. 


Discover you-niverse 


To use the technique above for evaluating your own chakras and nothing more, 
you do not need any knowledge of astrology, as you will be able to decode the 
dignity of each planet very accurately just by using the technique above. This will 
tell you, in which of your chakras there is the biggest amount of karma stored. But 
it will not tell you what caused this karma and how it is going to get manifested in 
a real life. It will give you the number, but not the interpretation. For this you need 
to have knowledge of at least basics of Vedic astrology, and a thorough knowledge 
about the nakshatras and their significance. 


| do plan to write a detailed book about the nakshatras in the future, and 
perhaps to make an online course, too. But you can already start studying the 


nakshatras on your own, as understanding these lunar mansions is indeed the key 
for understanding the soul of Vedic astrology - and your own soul, in fact. Under- 
standing nakshatras means understanding your true self and embracing each and 
every particle of yourself - embracing each manifestation of the Spirit in the outer 
or inner world. 


Discovering universe is quite literally discovering you-niverse. That is the 
greatest power behind Vedic astrology. 


Go to top 


Chapter 6 
Transforming You-niverse 


You received all the knowledge. You received the tools. But, what next? 


The theory is just to give you guidelines. But the true journey just starts there. 
Once you understand, which of your chakras are out of balance, it is time to 
work consciously on transforming your inner universe and re-aligning these cosmic 
gears within your subtle body, so the Divine life force can flow through you freely, 
expressing its highest potential in your life. 


There are several ways to do that, which were proven by experience to be very 
beneficial not only for developing the chakras, but for the harmonious development 
of the Soul itself. 


Atma Kriya Yoga 


I’ve mentioned Atma Kriya Yoga so many times in this book, but it seems never 
enough. This wonderful spiritual discipline consisting of most sacred yogic tech- 
niques has truly changed the lives of many. | am practicing Atma Kriya Yoga since 
almost 10 years already, while teaching since 8 years, and | can never recommend 
you enough this unique meditation practice. It transforms you on the deepest level 
and in the most effortless way. All you need to dois to practice your kriyas every- 
day, and the Consciousness itself will do the rest. 


Paramahamsa Vishwananda, who brought Atma Kriya Yoga into the world 
from his Guru, Mahavatar Babaji, says: “On whatever form you focus the mind, it 
will be crystallised into that form, and this will stay in the mind. Regular practice of 
Atma Kriya Yoga helps the Divine to get crystallised in the mind.” 


Atma Kriya Yoga is designed to purify your chakras from their karmic burden 
and to burn the karmic seeds stored within them. Just a few breaths of kriya 
practice have the power to burn years and years of your karma. And, trust me, 
you can’t even imagine how much more freedom it will bring into your life, before 
you experience it. Whichever planetary influence is affecting you negatively, with 
diligent practice of Atma Kriya Yoga, you can transform it more effectively and 
burn the karma that you have with that planet, faster. I’ve seen people, whose lives 
are totally changed just after one year of diligent Atma Kriya Yoga practice. They 
simply start to shine their inner light and it transforms not only them, but also their 
surroundings. It transforms the very way the planetary influences are manifesting in 
their lives and often it happens in the most miraculous way. This is what happens, 
when we allow the Spirit to guide us. 


After all, before each planetary influence becomes manifested in your life, it 


needs to be filtered through your chakras first - through your “inner planets”. A 
person, who truly understands astrology, knows that each planetary influence has 
the potential of becoming manifest in a constructive or a destructive way. Each 
influence must manifest in our lives in this way or the other, as the shakti of each 
nakshatra always desires to be manifested. But how you allow it to be manifested, 
is the free will that you have. | often like to compare it to the card game. Although 
you don’t have much choice about which cards you are going to receive, you surely 
have a choice about how you are going to play with them. 


Atma Kriya Yoga surely allows you to know yourself better and to become a 
better player in a game called life. But its highest gift is the gift of surrender. Be- 
cause only when we are truly surrendered, and when our Soul’s frequency is in tune 
with the Divine plan, the highest Divine potential can be manifested in our lives. 


It is also so wondrous to see, how the technique itself resembles the move- 
ments of the Sun through the zodiacal chakras in the sky. Our Sun itself, with its 
movements through the zodiac and lunar mansions, reminds us about this inner 
journey that each of us needs to make: the journey of consciousness through the 
chakras - the journey to the Divine. 


Visit this webpage to find out more about Atma Kriya Yoga: _http:// 
www.atmakriya.org 


OM Chanting 


OM Chanting is another technique of balancing our inner universe that | have 
mentioned before. It is a part of Atma Kriya Yoga and the only group technique 
within Atma Kriya Yoga system. It is also the only technique of Atma Kriya Yoga that 
you can practice even without being initiated into Atma Kriya Yoga before. 


The sacred practice of OM Chanting utilises the power of the most sacred 
sound orri. This sacred syllable is the sound of the Consciousness itself and the 
sound from which all other sounds have emerged. During an OM Chanting session 
all participants chant orri for 45 minutes, without even a moment of silence, while 
sitting in an exact formation (inner and outer circle) that magnifies the influence of 
the healing power of orri itself. This is the most powerful sound therapy that | have 
ever experienced. During OM Chanting all your chakras get purified and recharged 
with prana, cosmic life force in its purest form. The session itself is very refreshing, 
energising and has proved to have a profound healing effect not only on our subtle 
body, but on the physical body, too. There are already countless testimonies from 
all around the world about the healing experienced by different people through OM 
Chanting. 


OM Chanting groups are meeting already on almost every continent, in most 


of the bigger cities of more than 50 countries. All OM Chanting sessions are always 
free of charge. It is a wonderful opportunity to experience the power of the sound 
orri and recharge your chakras with healing energy. 


Visit this webpage to find out more about OM Chanting: _http:// 
www.omchanting.org 


Aromatherapy for the chakras 


Aromatherapy is another wonderful tool for balancing your chakras - and the 
most effortless one, perhaps. As you may remember, our sense of smell, con- 
nected to our muladhara chakra, is the only one, that doesn’t get filtered by our 
mind, which allows any fragrance to have a deep impact on our consciousness. 


When it comes to planet Saturn and muladhara chakra, the two most powerful 
fragrances balancing it, according to Vedic astrology, is the fragrance of kadamba 
and khus (vetiver). Svadhishtana chakra and the influence of Jupiter are getting 
beautifully balanced by the fragrance of ylang ylang, sandalwood or mango flower. 
Manipura chakra and the influence of Mars are the most effectively balanced by the 
fragrance of acacia flower and saffron flower. Anahata chakra is balanced by rose 
and tuberose. Vishuddha chakra by champaca. Ajna chakra is balanced by jasmine, 
tuberose or blue lotus. 


Such essences, however, work best, if combined together. You have learned 
already that lack of balance in one chakra will easily lead to lack of balance in an- 
other. That is why | rarely use in aromatherapy just one oil, but rather a very specific 
combination of oils for two different chakras, that is going to remove the lack of 
balance between those two, like saffron and rose, which balances the conflict be- 
tween manipura chakra and heart chakra. 


Visit my page to see some of my hand-made, 100% natural aromatherapy oils 
for the chakras: http:/Awww.4harmony.eu/shop 


Nakshatra sadhana 


Chanting the mantras of the nakshatras, which are playing a very significant 
role in your own horoscope (like the nakshatras occupied by planets, or manasa 
nakshatra, karma nakshatra, Bhrigu bindu, etc.), is a very powerful tool for im- 
proving your karma determined by those planetary influences and healing all your 
traumas related to them. It is a very powerful tool for self-improvement, as well 
as for spiritual development. It often helps us to embrace even those experiences, 
that we usually resist. Not without a reason each of the nakshatras has a mantra 
corresponding to those on the “petals” of our chakras, that represent exact energy 
channels and nerves within our body. These mantras were given to heal exact en- 
ergies within our inner universe. 


Chanting the mantras of exact nakshatras on their respective days, when the 
Moon is transiting them, is called nakshatra sadhana. Performing a diligent naksha- 
tra sadhana has the power of connecting you to the true knowledge, which those 
lunar mansions are holding and the lessons that they are trying to teach you in this 
lifetime. Remember, each of these nakshatra mantras is connected to one of the 


petals of some of your chakras - to one unique energy channel within your subtle 
body and to one of the nerves in your spine. By activating this subtle influences, 
you can tap into the real source of knowledge, and heal those energies within your- 
self, too. 


After all, to truly understand nakshatras, they have to firstly become a part of 
your. You need to go deep within this place of yourself, where the shakti of exact 
nakshatra is manifested, and embrace that place with Love. 


For those, who wish to sincerely start to practice nakshatra sadhana and 
explore their inner universe on even deeper level, | offer a private online tutoring 
program, 27 transformative days, during which you will learn a lot about your 
own chart and the role that the 27 nakshatras of zodiac are playing in your inner 
universe. It is a transformative journey, which will help you to truly connect to your 
soul’s sacred qualities. 


If you are interested in participating such a program, contact me through my 
website: http://www.4harmony.eu/contact . 


The end - and the beginning 


The knowledge was given to you. The tools are here. Now, it is time for you to 
go on your own search and start the fascinating journey of exploring this beautiful 
universe called you. Each end brings a new beginning. | am feeling grateful that you 
chose to complete this journey with me, and | wish you all the best on your own 
unique path of exploring you-niverse. 


Go to top 


About the Author 


Achala (Sylwia Mihajlovic) is a jyotishi and an Atma Kriya Yoga teacher from 
Poland, currently living with her husband in Croatia. She offers Atma Kriya Yoga 
courses and Jyotish courses in Europe, as well as online webinars and individual 
readings based on the art of Vedic astrology. From the moment she started to 
practice yoga and meditation at the early age of 17, she dedicated her whole life 
to the path of spiritual development, and became a disciple of Paramahamsa Sri 
Swami Vishwananda. 


Find out more: http:/Awww.4harmony.eu _ 


