ADVANCED STUDY 
OF 
VIMSHOTTARI DASHA 


(With Remedial Measures) 


BY 
K.K. PATHAK 


JYOTISH BHANU 


. PREFACE 


* . Encouraged by the warm welcome my book “Hindu Dasha 
. System” published in two volumes, received from readers, | made 
up my mind to present a further improvement over that book . It 
,.came to my notice that Satyacharya who'preceded Varaha Mihira! 
i Kalyan Varma and others had made better indepth study of our 
iDasha system While delving deep into the complexities of the 
-teachniques of Vimshottari Dasha. Most of the classical authors 
have been delineating Dasha-Phala as per sign and Bhava 
occupied by the planets and also as per Karakatwa of the 
concerned planets. Bhavesha Phala of planets and Nakshatra 
Phalas of planets are the two unique specialities of Hindu Astrology 
not to be found elsewhere. A planet gives auspicious or 
inauspicious results as per auspicious or inauspicious Bhavas 
owned and occupied by it. A planet further gives results as per the 
star ruled.over and occupied by it in addition to its sign-effects. 
Although Vyankatesh in his Sarvartha-Chintamani, Mantreshwar 
in his Phala Deepika, Vaidyanath in his Jataka Parijata and 
Jeevanath the in his Bhava Prakasha have also given, it seems 
strange to note only cryptic references of Bhavesh-Phalas or 
Nakshatra Phalas are available under Dasha Phala Chapter of 
Brihat Parashar Hora Shastra. On the other hand I have found 
that Satyacharya made a thorough study of Bhava-lords giving 
various results as per their occupation of Bhavas in Rashi chart 
and Navamsha Chart. Satyacharya seems to be the chief exponent 
of Dasha-Phala based on Bhavesh-Phala and Tara-Phala of 
concerned planets. Satyacharya held Kendra and Trikona lords 
,as auspicious. He held 2nd, 3rd and 11th lords as wens 
auspicious lords and 6th, 8th and 12th lords as inauspicious ones! 
| fe further adhered to the view that benefic or malefic results were 
isboject to modification as per placement of ruling planets, in’ 
_Navamsa chart. He further held occupation or owning ‘of Ist,” 
‘2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 9th star by Grahas will be giving auspicious 
results while occupation or owning of 3rd, 5th and 7th star by 
Grahas will be giving inauspicious results. Tara-Phalas were 


iv 


subject to modification by Vedha position of stars. A planet 
disposed ‘in evil star but subject to Vedha was destined to give 
auspicious results or at least it must not be giving bad results. 

1 therefore, have taken up Bhavesh Phalas of ruling planets 
coupled with their Tara-Phalas as delineated by Satyacharya as 
the main theme of the book in hand. 

Intelligent readers may draw their inferences about general 
effects of Bhava-lords placed in varius Bhavas along with Dasha- 
effects of such planets profusely dealt about in various chapters. 
As per Zodiacal Chart position, except the Sun and the Moon 
remaining five Grahas namely, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter and 
Satur will always have double Bhava-lordship. I have discussed 
problems arisen on account of double-lordship, Badhaka, 
Kendradhipatya Dosha, Yogakaraka Yoga-Heenas, Maraks etc 
in this book. In ancient days, very few occupations were in Vogue. 
Today, Vocational Astrology has acquired the unique position as 
‘a special Branch of Astrology. In the present book | have made a 
detailed examination of Vocational compatibility and 
incompatibility with refernce to each Dasha based on Bhava- 
lord and stars. I have done so as per modern needs. It is my humble 
submission that utility of Vimshottari Dasha from the point of 
view of modern Vocational needs has been for the first time 
attempted to be examined in detail only in the present book. While 
discussing Dasha-Phala of each Bhava-lord suitable remedial 
measures have been suggested where needed most. A separate 
chapter on Remedial Measures is a further gift to readers. 

Present book covers twenty one Chapters. Chapters one and 
two deal with Basic Dasha rules delineated by Satyacharya and a 
critical examination of these Rules. Chapters 3 to 14 deal with 
Dashs-effects of each Bhava-lord in various Bhavas specially 
throwing light on vocational prospects of each Dasha and 
suggesting remedial measures where needed most. Chapter 15 
deals with Transit Effects of Jupiter, Saturn and Rahu that must 
also be taken into consideration along with Dasha-Phala. Chapter 
Sixteen is exclusively devoted to Remedial Measures. 

Chapter 17 deals with Yogakarak Dasahas while Chapter 18 
deals with Yoga Heena Dasha of Sani-Sukra and Sukra-Sani. 
Chapter 19 deals with Yoga-Heena Dasha-Chhidra of Rahu-Mars 


and Jupiter-Rahu. Chapter 20 deals with Yoga-Heena Atmakarak 
Bhukti. Chapter 21 deals with Timing of Gajakeshari Yoga. 
Chapters 17 to 21 cover critical examination of some very popular 
Dasha Rules. : 

Present book is thus “Three-in-one” as it is a confluence of 
Directional cum Vocational cum Remedial Astrology. 


l owe my gratitude to Shri Amrit Lal Jain of Alpha Publication, 
Delhi in upgrading the quality of this book by his useful suggestions. 

This book is dedicated to Dayashankerjee Honorary 
consultant Editor of the Times of Astrology who not only played a 
dominant role in getting me established as an author of books by 
publishing ten books of mine but it is also he who had once 
motivated me to write a book like Adavanced study of Vimshottari 
Dasha. I owe my gratitude to him for his Benevolence and dedicate 
this Three-in-one Book to him with Reverance. 


Krishna Kumar Pathak 


Retired Special Secretary to Government of Bihar 
T - 102, Third Floor, 

Prashanti Nilayam Apartment, 

KANKARBAG, PO. LOHIANAGAR 

PATNA - 800020 (BIHAR) 

Phone - 0612 - 2364202 


vi 


CONTENTS 


. Introduction 
. Basic Dasha Rules of Satyacharya 
. Effects of Dasha of the Lord of the 


Ascendant in Various Houses 


. Effects Dasha of the Lord of the 


2nd House in Various Houses 


. Effects of Dasha of the Lord of the 


3rd house in Various Houses 


. Effects of Dasha of the Lord of the 4th House 
. Effects of Dasha of the Lord of the 


5th house in Various Houses 


. Effects of Dasha of the 6th Lord in Various Houses 
. Effects of Dasha of the 7th Lord in Various Houses 
. Effects of the Dasha of the Lord of the 


8th House in Various Houses 


. Effects of Dasha of the 9th lord in Various Houses 
. Effects of the Dasha of the Lord of the 


10th House in Various Houses 


. Effects of Dasha of the 11th Lord in Various Houses 
. Effects of Dasha of the 12th Lord in Various Houses 
. Some more points 

. Remedial Guidelines 

. Yoga Karaka Dasha 

. Yogaheena Dasha Bhukti 

. Yogaheena Dasha-Chhidra 

. Yogaheena Bhukti of Atmakarak 

. Timing Results of Gajakesari Yoga 


103 
110 
117 
119 
125 
165 
209 
224 
238 


a Chapter-I 
INTRODUCTION 


“Satya Jatakam” or “Jataka Satyachareeyam” is said to be 
the work of Satyacharya who definitely preceded Varaha Mihira 
but came after Chanakya. Varaha Mihira made references to 
Satyacharya in his book “Brihat Jatakam”, Manittha is said to 
be a disciple of Satyacharya. 


It seems quite strange how Varaha Mihira, Kalyan Varma, 
Rudra Bhatta and Utpala Bhatt were unaware of Parashari 
Vimshottari Dasha System when their predecessor Satyacharya 
had made an intensive study of Parashari Dasha System years 
before them. Rather, Vaidyanath, Vyankatesh and Mantreshwar 
appear to have taken better hints from Satyacharya in explaining 
Vimshottari Dasha based on Nakshatras and lordship of planets. 
Even in Brihat Parashar Hora Shastra sketching references of 
Bhavesh Phala are made out and Karaka Phalas of planets are 
the points mainly discussed under Dasha Phala chapter therein. 
Satyacharya has discussed in detail about Dasha Phala of Bhava- 
lords in various Bhavas which nowhere else is available and is 
the main theme of the present book. 


Determinants of Fortune 


According to Satyacharya, there are four determinants of 
the fortune or destiny of a native. They are as follows : 

(1) Lagnadhipati (2) Lagna Navamsadhipati (3) Janma 
Nakshatradhipati and (4) The dispositors of (1), (2) and (3). In 
other words, fortune or destiny of a native is dependent on the 
strength and placements of planets of the aforesaid four kinds in 
Rashi-Charts. From remedial points of view we may advise 
natives to wear gems meant for (1) Lagna-lord (2) 
Navamsa-lord of Janma Lagna (3) Lord of Janma 
Nakshatra and (4) dispositors of these three in their 
Dasas or as life-long gem if such planet is weak or 


2 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


afflicted or ill-placed in birth-chart. To this we may 
add Janma-Rashis and its dispositor as catalysts too. 


Some readers may question the rationale behind treating the 
aforesaid as determinants of Fortune when the 9th and 5th Bhavas 
are marked for Fortune. To them, we would like to point out that 
the three trines are the houses of Fortune. The 9th house is the 
strongest house of fortune, the 5th house is stronger house of 
fortune but the 1st house is also:an ordinary house of fortune. 5th 
house is stronger than the 1st house whereas the 9th house is 
stronger than the 5th house in matters of fortune only. But as the 
1st house is both a trine and a kendra which privilege is not 
possible for any other house, 1st house or Lagna is given topmost 
priority by Satyacharya. It is known to all that a planet owning a 
Kendra and a Kona house ipso facto becomes Yogakaraka such 
as Saturn for Taurus and Libra Lagnas and Mars for Cancer and 
Leo Lagnas. Similarly. Lagna being both a kendra and a trine is 
rightly deemed to be the most auspicious house by sensible 
astrologers. As a matter of fact, lagna or the first house is 
the pivot or key-point of our horoscopic study. 


Determination of Birthstar 


Birthstar, strictly speaking, should be treated as the star or 
Nakshatra occupied by the birth-ascendant but conventionally 
Birthstar always refers to Nakshatra occupied by the natal Moon. 
In Hindu Astrology Vimshottari Dasha, Ashtottari Dasha, Yogini 
Dasha, Kalachakra Dasha and many other Dashas are all based on 
Nakshatra of natal Moon. Satyacharya, however, adhered to the 
view that whichever is the stronger of the two, that is, natal Moon 
and the birth ascendant, that alone should be taken into consideration 
for purposes of determination of the birthstar. Yet, there is another 
view in this matter. Instead of considering the strengths of the birth 
ascendant and the natal Moon it considers the strengths of the lord 
of the birth ascendant and the natal Moon. ff the ascendant lord is 
stronger than the Moon, the nakshatra occupied by the ascendant- 
lord may be taken as the birth-star, otherwise nakshatra occupied 
by natal Moon should be taken as the birth-star. 


Of the three, namely nakshatras occupied by the birth 
ascendant, ascendant lord and natal Moon it is only nakshatra 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha ‘ 3 


occupied by natal Moon that is taken into consideration as the 
birth-star for purposes of Dasha-Phala and Gochara Phala by 
almost all astrologers. Astrology is a discipline and not an anarchy. 
If everybody is at liberty to denote and connote a term, astrology 
must cease to be a scientific explanation. For these reasons lunar 
mansion should only be treated as the birth-star. We, however, 
make it clear to readers that Satyacharya stressed over reckoning 
Dasa from the star occupied by the birth ascendant or natal Moon 
whichever is stronger and readers may follow as they deem proper. 
There are 27 Nakshatras. They are in three series. Each series 
has nine nakshatras owned by nine Grahas. 


Janma Nakshatra, 10th nakshatra and 19th nakshatra are 
known as Janma Tara or the Ist star. 2nd, 11th and 20th 
nakshatras from Janma Nakshatra are known as Sampata Tara 
or 2nd star. 3rd, 12th and 21st nakshatras from Janma Nakshatra 
are known as Vipat Tara or 3d star. 4th, 13th and 22nd nakshatras 
from Janma Nakshatra are known as Kshema Tara or 4th star. 
5th, 14th and 23rd nakshatras from Janma Nakshatra are known 
as Pratyak Tara or 5th star. 6th, 15th and 24th nakshatras from 
Janma Nakshatra are known as Sadhaka Tara or 6th star. 7th, 
16th and 25th nakshatras from Janma Nakshatra are known as 
Vadha Tara or 7th star. 8th, 17th and 26th nakshatras from Janma: 
Nakshatra are known as Maitra Tara or 8th star. 9th, 18th and 
27th nakshatras from Janma Nakshatra are known as Parama 
Maitra Tara or 9th star. 


Vimshottari Dasha as per Stars 


As Vimshottari Dasha begins with Dasa of the lord of birth- 
star (lunar), it is followed by Dashas of the lords of the 2nd, 3rd, 
Ath, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th stars respectively. 


According to Satyacharya, dasas of the lords of the 2nd, 
4th, 6th and 8th stars (Sampat, Kshema, Sadhaka and Maitra 
Taras) always give quite auspicious results whereas dasas of the 
lords of the 3rd, 5th and 7th stars (Vipat, Pratyak and Vadha 
Taras) give quite inauspicious and bad results. Dasas of the 1st 
and the 9th stars (Janma Tara and Parama Maitra Tara) are 
moderately good. 


For example, if a native is born in lunar nakshatra Ashwini, 


4 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Magha or Moola, Ketu, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, 
Saturn and Mercury Dasas will follow in order, of these, dasas of 
Ketu (1st dasa) and Mercury (9th dasa) will give moderately good 
results, dasas of Venus (2nd dasa), Moon (4th dasa), Rahu (6th 
dasa) and Saturn (8th dasa) will give the best results but dasas of 
Sun (3rd dasa), Mars (5th dasa) and Jupiter (7th dasa) may give 
unfortunate and bad results. 


There is some sense in such kinds of results. Everyone of us 
has good and bad days by turn dependent on our deeds reflected 
through aforesaid Dasa-order. As Dasha-Phala is determined by 
a host of factors we may take into consideration aforesaid stellar 
guidelines as only one such determinant. Suppose that Dasa of 
the lord of evil 3rd star is running but if dasa-lord is a functional 
benefic, well-placed and well-aspected impact of evil 3rd star may 
not be so bad and serious. If, on the other hand, such lord of evil 
star owns evil houses and is also under other evil influences dasa 
of lord of such evil star must be very inauspicious one. 


As we determine birth-star on the basis of nakshatra 
occupied by natal Moon or birth ascendant, it is only proper that 
we must take into consideration the nature of star occupied by a 
planet along with star ruled over by a planet. Stellar occupation 
and Stellar ownership of planets are equally important in 
delineation of dasa-results. Suppose, a native having his birth- 
star as Magha has his Venus in Punarvasu, Sun in Aridra, Moon 
in Magha, Mars in Uttara Phalguni, Rahu in Sata - Tara and 
dupiter in Poorva Phalguni, Venus as lord of auspicious 2nd star 
occupying evil 7th star will generally give good results in its Dasa 
but it may also cause many times danger to life in its Maha Dasha; 
the Sun as lord of evil 3rd star occupying auspicious 6th star may 
very often cause misfortunes but may give success in endeavours 
after set-backs in its Maha Dasha ; the Moon as lord of auspicious 
4th star occupying Ist star may first give quite auspicious results 
but may later on give moderately good results only in its Maha- 
Dasha; Mars as lord of evil 5th star occupying evil 3rd star may 
give quite bad results in its Maha Dasha unless it is a Yogakaraka 
or Lagnesh; Rahu as lord of auspicious 6th star occupying the 
auspicious 6th star also may give quite auspicious results in its 
Maha Dasha; Jupiter as lord of evil 7th star occupying auspicious 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 5 


2nd star may give prosperity but it may also cause danger to life 
in its Maha Dasha. Lordship and occupation of favourable or 
unfavourable star may be one of the determinants of Dasha Phala 
but Satyacharya also gives some more clues in this regard which 
are not discussed elsewhere and we shall, therefore, discuss it in 
detail here. 


Satyacharya says that the 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars counted 
from the Janma-Nakshatra are most auspicious. The planets 
posited in trine signs (1st, 5th and 9th signs) from the signs 
occupied by these stars give the best results during their periods 
and sub-periods whereas planets posited in Kendra signs (4th, 
7th and 10th signs) from the signs occupied by these stars give 
moderately good results in their periods and sub-periods. Rather, 
planets in 6th, 8th and 12th signs from the signs occupied by 
these stars may give bad results. 


Satyacharya who held the 3rd, 5th and 7th stars counted 
from Janma Nakshatra to be giving bad results similarly held that 
planets in triangular signs (1st, 5th and 9th signs) from the signs 
occupied or held by these evil stars may give the worst results in 
their periods and sub-periods whereas planets in Kendra signs 
(4th, 7th and 10th signs) from the signs held or occupied by these 
evil stars may give moderately good results but planets in cadent 
or trika signs (6th, 8th and 12th signs) from the signs held by 
these evil stars my give quite good results make the point more 
clear, 1 am giving a case where Lagna, Moon, Jupiter and Ketu 
are in Magha Nakshatra, the Sun is in Aridra Nakshatra; Venus 
in Punarvasu Nakshatra, Mercury is in Pushya Nakshatra; Mars 
is in Uttaraphalguni Nakshatra; Saturn is in SRAVANA Nakshatra 
and Rahu is in Satabhisa Nakshatra. 


Here 2nd star Bharani, Purva Phalguni and Purva Ashadha 
will fall in Aries, Leo and Sagittarius signs. Accordingly planets 
Moon, Ketu and Jupiter in Leo sign may give the best results in 
this case in their periods. Mercury and Venus in 4th from Aries 
and Saturn in 10th from Aries may give moderately good results 
in their periods. Rahu in 7th from Leo and the Sun in 7th from 
Sagittarius may give moderately good results in their periods. 
** Mercury and Venus in 12th and Saturn in 6th from Leo may give 


6 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


bad results. Venus and Mercury in 8th from Sagittarius and Mars 
in 6th from Aries may give bad results in their periods. 


4th star Rohini, Hasta and Sravana will fall in Taurus, Virgo 
and Capricorn signs. As such, Mars and Saturn falling in Virgo 
and Capricorn signs respectively will give quite auspicious results 
in their periods. Moon-Jupiter-Ketu in 4th from Taurus and Rahu 
in 10th from Taurus may give moderately good results in their 
periods. Sun in 10th from Virgo may give moderately good results 
in their periods. Venus and Mercury in 7th from Capricorn may 
also give moderately good results in their periods. But Moon- 
Ketu-Jupiter in 12th of Virgo and 8th of Capricorn may give bad 
results in their periods. The Sun in 6th of Capricorn may similarly 
give bad results in their periods. 


Similarly, positions from 6th star Aridra-Swati Satabhisa and 
from 8th star Pushya-Anuradha-Uttarabhadrapada may be 
assessed. But as 3rd star (Krittika-Uttara Phalguni-Uttara 
Ashadha), 5th star (Mrigasira-Chitra-Dhanistha) and 7th star 
(Punarvasu-Visakhapurva-Bhadrapada) will be falling in two signs 
it may not be possible to apply these rules in case of stars owning 
two signs. We therefore, deem it proper to reinterpret these rules 
as follows : 


(a) The planets placed in trines from lords ruling over the 
2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars counted from Janma Nakshatra will 
be giving most auspicious results in their periods and sub-periods. 
In the instant case not only period and sub-periods of Venus (lord 
of 2nd star) will give auspicious results but planets in trine (1st, 
5th and 9th) from Venus as Mercury in conjunction with Venus 
here will give similarly auspicious results in its periods. Periods 
and sub-periods of Moon (lord of 4th star) will similarly give 
auspicious results and periods and sub-periods of Jupiter and 
Ketu in conjunction with Moon will also go as auspicious ones. It 
may please be noted that there are no planets in 5th and 9th from 
Venus or Moon here. Had there been any such planet in 5th or 
9th from Venus or Moon its period too would have gone as 
auspicious one. Periods and sub-periods of Rahu (lord of 6th 
star) will also go as auspicious ones. Periods and sub-periods of 
Sun in 5th from Rahu may also give auspicious results. There is 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 7 


no planet in 1st or 9th from Rahu in the instant case. Periods and 
sub-periods of Saturn (lord of 8th star) may also go as auspicious 
ones. So also may go periods and sub-periods of Mars posited in 
9th from Saturn in the instant case as there is no planet in the 1st 
or 5th from Saturn. 


(b) Planets placed in Kendra (1st, 4th, 7th and 10th) from 
lords ruling over the 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars may give moderately 
good results in their periods and sub-periods. In the instant case 
Satur in 7th from Venus, Rahu in 7th from Moon, Jupiter and 
Moon in 7th from Rahu and Venus -Mercury in 7th from Saturn 
may give moderately good results in their periods and sub-periods. 


(c) Planets placed in cadent houses (6th, 8th and 12th) from 
lords ruling over the 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars may, however, 
give bad results in their periods and sub-periods. In instant case 
Rahu in 8th and Sun in 12th from Venus, Saturn in 6th and Venus- 
Mercury in 12th from Moon, Venus-Mercury in 6th, Mars in 8th 
and Saturn in 12th from Rahu and the Sun in 6th and Moon- 
dupiter-Ketu in 8th from Saturn may give bad results in their 
periods and sub-periods. 


(d) Planets placed in trine (1st, 5th and 9th) from the lords 
ruling over the 3rd, 5th and 7th stars may give worst results in 
their periods. In the instant case Sun (lord of 3rd star) may give 
bad results in its period and sub-periods. Rahu in 9th from the 
Sun, however, may give worst results in its period and sub-periods. 
Mars (lord of 5th star) may give bad results in its period and sub- 
periods. Saturn in 5th from Mars, however, may give worst results 
in its period. Jupiter (lord of 7th star) may give bad results in its 
period. Moon and Ketu in 1st from Jupiter, however, may give 
worst results in their periods. 


(e) Planets in Kendra (4th, 7th and 10th) from lords of evil 
3rd, Sth and 7th stars may give moderately good results in their 
periods. In the instant case Mars in 4th from Sun (lord of 3rd 
star), Sun in 10th from Mars (lord of 5th star) and Rahu in 7th 
from Jupiter (lord of 7th star) may give moderately good results in 
their periods. 


(f} Planets in cadent houses from lords of evil 3rd, 5th and 
7th stars may give rather good results in their periods. In instant 


8 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


case Satum in 8th from Sun, Rahu in 6th from Mars and Jupiter- 
Moon-Ketu in 8th from Saturn and Saturn in 6th and Mercury- 
Venus in 12th from Jupiter may give good results in their periods. 


But these are too liberal interpretations of Stellar Rules. A 
rational interpretation of these rules should be made as follows: 


(1) Periods and sub-periods of planets ruling over the 2nd, 
4th, 6th and 8th stars may asia rule give quite good results. Sub- 
‘periods of planets placed in trine (1st, 5th and 9th) from such’ 
major lords (lords of 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars) may give best 
results. Planets in Kendra (4th, 7th and 10th) from such 
auspicious major lords may give moderately good results in their 
sub-periods in major periods of such auspicious star-lords. Planets 
in cadent houses (6th, 8th and 12th) from such auspicious major 
lords may give bad results in their sub-periods in major periods of 
such auspicious star-lords. 


(2) Periods and sub-periods of lords of evil 3rd, 5th and 7th 
stars may generally give bad results. Planets in trine from such 
evil star-lords may give worst results in their sub-periods in major 
periods of such evil star-lords. Planets in Kendra from such evil 
star-lords, however, may give moderately good results in their sub- 
periods in major period of such evil star-lords. Planets in cadent 
houses from such evil star-lords may give quite good results in 
their sub-periods in major periods of such evil star-lords. 


CHAPTER-I 


BASIC DASHA RULES OF 
SATYACHARYA 


Satyacharya emphasised four points in delineation of Dasha- 


Phala. These points are as follows : 


(1) Natural qualities of planets : Venus and Jupiter are 
held to be natural benefics at all times. Mars, Saturn, Rahu-Ketu 
and Sun are held to be natural malefics at all times. Mercury in 
conjunction with natural malefics is held to be malefic, otherwise is 
held to be a natural benefic. There is proper sense in dropping the 
Sun from list of natural malefics. Waxing Moon is held to be natural 
benefic and waning Moon is held to be natural malefic. Yavanas 
treated the Moon, except Dark Moon, as a natural benefic. 

(2) Functional Benefics and Telefics : Planets ruling 
over Ist, 5th, 9th, 4th, 7th and 10th houses are held to be functional 
benefics of high order. Planets ruling over 2nd, 3rd and 11th houses 
are held to be functional benefics of somewhat weak order. Planets 
ruling over 6th and 12th houses are held to be functional malefics. 
Satyacharya did not consider the 3rd and 11th lords as evil lords 
as viewed by some Neo-Parasarians. He simply held these two 
lords as weak auspicious lords. 

(3) The nature of the stars occupied and owned by 
planets : Planets owning (ruling over) or occupying auspicious 
stars Sampat (2nd star), Kshema (4th star), Sadhaka (6th star) 
and Mitra (8th star) from Janma-Nakshatra as a rule may give 

‘uspicious' results in their periods. Planets ruling over or 
deosslng evil stars Vipat (3rd star), Pratyak (5th star) and Vadha 
(7th star) from Janma Nakshatra as a rule may give bad results in 
their periods. Planets ruling over Janma Tara (1st star) or 
occupying the same and planets ruling over Parama Maitra (9th 
star) or occupying the same may give moderately good results in 
their periods. 


10 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


(4) Dasha results of Planets : Sub-periods of Planets 
posited in trine (1st, 5th and 9th) from major lords ruling over 
2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th stars may give quite auspicious results in 
such major periods. Sub-periods of planets posited in trine from 
major lord ruling over evil 3rd, 5th and 7th stars on the other 
hand may give worst results in such evil major periods. Sub- 
periods of planets posited in Kendra (4th, 7th & 10th) from major 
lord ruling over auspicious (2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th) stars or evil 
(3rd, 5th and 7th) stars may give moderately good results in all 
such major periods. We, however, do understand that planets in 
Kendra of major lords ruling over auspicious stars may give 
‘moderately good results in their sub-periods but sub-periods of 
planets in Kendra of major lords ruling over evil stars may give 
moderately bad results in such major periods. Sub-periods of 
planets in cadent (6th, 8th and 12th) houses from major lords 
ruling over auspicious stars may give bad results in such major 
periods. On the other hand sub-periods of planets in cadent 
houses from major lords ruling over evil stars may give good results 
in such major periods. - Planets in Leena houses (2nd, 3rd and 
11th houses) from major lords ruling over any star may give weak 
results of a good kind in their sub-periods. 


According to Satyacharya, if a planet happens to be benefic 
by possessing three or four of the aforesaid auspicious factors, it 
may give good results during its Dasha and Bhukti. If such a planet 
is malefic in respect of three or four factors listed above, it may 
cause bad results during its Dasha and Bhukti. While the first three 
factors have to be considered for Dasha purposes, all the aforesaid 
four factors must be considered for Bhukti results. 


Results of Dashas and Bhuktis 


Satyacharya highlights some more points, which are as 
follows : 

(1) A planet placed in the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th and 9th 
stars counted from Janma Nakshatra may give good results in its 
Dasha and Bhuktis. These auspicious results may be further 
enhanced (a) if such planet rules over some auspicious house. 
(b) if such a planet is placed in a trinal house, and (c) if it is 
conjoined with a natural or a functional benefic. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 11 


(2) Benefic planets placed in aforesaid auspicious stars may 
produce very good results in their periods provided their transits 
are also auspicious. 


(3) Benefics placed in evil stars (3rd, 5th and 7th stars) from 
dJanma Nakshatra may give ordinary results in their periods. 


(4) Planets placed in evil stars normally give evil results in 
their periods. These evil results may be further accentuated, (a) if 
the planets in question also rule over evil houses (b) if the planets 
in question are also placed in evil houses and (c) if such planets 
are also conjoined with natural or functional malefics. 


(5) Malefic planets placed in evil stars may give maximum 
evil results in their periods. 


(6) Malefic planets placed in auspicious 1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 
8th and 9th stars from Janma Nakshatra do not give much bad 
effects in their periods. If, however, they are placed in inauspicious 
3rd, 5th and 7th stars they produce evil results. 


Satyacharya adhered to the view that only 3rd, 5th and 7th 
stars from Janma Nakshatra are evil stars. Remaining six stars 
namely Ist, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th and 9th stars were held to be 
auspicious by him though at some places he treated the 1st and 
9th stars as moderately good. Parasar, Vyankatesh and many 
others have stressed more on lordship of stars but 
Satyocharya has given more weightage to occupation of 
stars by the planets. In our view both lordship of stars 
and occupation of stars should be given proper weightage. 
While considering benefic or malefic nature of planets, we should 
consider both natural and functional beneficence and maleficence 
of planets. If a planet is both a natural and a functional benefic 
and also if it owns and occupies auspicious star, dasa of such a 
planet may give auspicious results. But if a planet is both a natural 
and a functional malefic and also if it owns and occupies an’ evil 
star, dasa of such a planet may give inauspicious results. | 


Whether a planet will give auspicious or inauspicious result 
in its Dasa depends on eight factors, according to Satyacharya. 
They are as follows : 


A planet which is (a) a natural benefic such as Jupiter, Venus, 


12 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


unafflicted Mercury and Waxing Moon (b) which is placed in a 
benefic sign (c) which is in extreme exaltation, (d) which is in 
retrogression (e) which rules over auspicious houses (f) which 
rules over auspicious stars (g) which is in Shubha Varga and (h) 
which is Uchaharohi may give auspicious results in its Dasa. 

A planet (a) which is a natural malefic such as Saturn, Mars, 
Rahu, Ketu, Sun, Weak Moon and afflicted Mercury, (b) which is 
placed in inimical and debilitated sign (c) which is combust (d)} 
which is too fast in motion (e) which rules over evil 6th, 8th and 
12th houses (f) which rules over evil 3rd, 5th and 7th stars (g) as 
malefic occupies trine and Kendra house and (h) which is in 
extreme debilitation may give inauspicious results in its Dasa. 


Satyacharya further says that lords of stars, rashis and 
navamsas in which aforesaid kinds of benefics are posited may 
* also give good results during their Dashas whereas lords of stars, 
rashis and navamsas in which aforesaid 8 kinds of malefics are 
posited may give bad results during their Dashas. What 
Satyacharya intends to say here is that dispositors of 
benefics will also give auspicious results in their Dashas 
whereas dispositors of malefics will give inauspicious 
results in their Dashas. Let us clarify the implication of this 
rule. A Yogakarak is the most beneficial planet in a horoscope. 
Dasa of a Yogakarak planet must be a beneficial one. Dasa of 
dispositor of Yogakarak planet too may be equally beneficial one. 
Dasa of the lord of star in which Yogakarak planet is posited may 
also be equally beneficial. Dasha of the lord of navamsa occupied 
by Yogakarak planet may also be similarly beneficial. 

6th lord is an evil planet. As such Dasha of 6th lord may give 
evil results. Dasha of dispositor of the 6th lord may give equally bad 
results. Dasha of navamsa lord of the 6th lord and Dasha of lord of 
star occupied by the 6th lord may also give equally bad results. 


Dashas of the Lords of Houses 


Parashar, Mantreshwar, Vaidyanath, Vyankatesh and others 
have discussed effects of Dashas of planets giving importance to 
their natural attributes. They have made cryptic references of 
functional role of these planets in delineation of their Dashas. 
Utmost they have said that a Bhava lord or a House-lord in its 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 13 


period may give results appertaining to Bhava or House owned 
by it. But as we know that functional lords in different houses will 
be giving different results. Of all the sages, it was only Satyacharya 
who made a detailed study of various house lords giving different 
results in different houses. There are 12 houses and 12 house 
lords. Accordingly, these 12 lords in 12 houses will give 144 kinds 
of Dasha-Phala. We shall be discussing them here. Readers, 
however, may take note of the following few facts : 

(a) As Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn own two 
signs, we must consider their functional Dasha Phala from both 
points of view. These planets may give results something like two 
in one. 


(b) The Sun and the Moon own only one house each. As 
such, their results as house lord in various houses can be more 
relied upon. 

(c) As Rahu and Ketu do not rule over any sign, Bhavesh 
Dasha-Phala does not apply to them. - 

(d) Bhavesh Dasha-Phala in the main relates to major period 
of Bhava-lords but it may also be applied to subperiods of such 
Bhava-lords. 

(e) Satyacharya has discussed effects of Bhava-lords in other 
Bhavas only when lords of such other Bhavas are combined with 
such Bhava-lords of former kind. Such conditions are not always 
possible. If a Bhava-lord is placed in another Bhava along with a 
lord of that another Bhava, results anticipated by Satyacharya 
may be more true in such cases. If a Bhava-lord is placed alone 
in another Bhava results anticipated by Satyacharya may apply 
somewhat in moderate doses. From this it follows that aspects 
and conjunctions of various other Bhava-lords on a Bhava-lord 
in a Bhava may also influence Dasha-Phala of such a Bhava- 
lord. For example, 1st lord in the 2nd house associated with the 
2nd lord may enhance better prospects of both the 1st-and the 
2nd house than by the mere presence of the 1st lord in the 2nd 
house. {Influences of other Bhava-lords on the 2nd house and 1st 
lord therein by conjunction or aspect may also modify the 
anticipated results. 


CHAPTER-III 


EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 
LORD OF THE ASCENDANT IN 
VARIOUS HOUSES 


In Ist house : 


If the ascendant lord has the requisite eight-fold benefic 
qualities attributed to by Satyacharya, as discussed earlier by us 
then during the course of its Dasha, it may yield good results such: ~ 
as gain of fortune, royal favour, health, fame, influence, comforts 
and happiness. These results may gradually increase. If on the 
other hand the ascendant lord be weak, by being posited in 
inimical or debilitated sign or be in combustion in its Dasha the 
native may lose all importance. He may be a very ordinary person. 
He may even become a poor servant. He may suffer from worries. 
He may become even wicked. If such an ascendant lord is placed 
in the 12th house in Navamsha Chart, the native may be ever 
moving from place to place. During the sub-periods of such weak 
lord the native may also be very unhappy and poor. Aforesaid 
results, appertain to the ascendant-lord placed in the ascendant 
house. 


In 2nd house : 


If the ascendant lord is placed in the second house in 
conjunction with the lord of the 2nd house, during Dasha of such 
ascendant lord the native may become very rich. All the 
significations of the 2nd house may thrive. Native’s family may 
prosper. His words may be respected. He may have all round 
success. But if in the Navamsha Chart, the ascendant lord is 
placed in the 6th, 8th or 12th amsa from the amsa in which the 
lord of the 2nd house is placed aforesaid good results may be 
adversely affected. The native may have very little gain of wealth. 
He may have both happy and unhappy experiences. 


Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 15 


As far as we understand even if the 2nd lord be placed in 
some other auspicious house, ascendant lord, lonely in the 2nd 
house may thrive significations of the 2nd house in its Dasha. 


Sub-periods of the 1st lord may give similar kinds of results 
normally. 


In the 3rd house : 


If the ascendant lord is placed in the 3rd house along with 
the lord of the 3rd house, then during Dasha of such ascendant 
lord, a brother may be born or the native may get wealth through 
his brothers. He may do courageous acts. He may study religious 
works. He may hear music. As far'as we understand, ascendant 
lord in the 3rd house may give success in written examination, 
journalism, communication, sports and any kind of hand-skill. 
But, if the ascendant-lord be placed in the 6th, 8th or 12th house 
from amsa occupied by the lord of 3rd house in Navamsa Chart 
aforesaid good results may be moderated and the native may 
have even quarrels or misunderstandings with his brothers or 
relations in its Dasha. 


It has been our understanding that lone ascendant lord in 
the 3rd house may also give good results in its Dasha or Antar 
Dasha if the 3rd lord is placed in any house other than the 6th, 
8th and 12th house. 


In the 4th house : 


If the ascendant lord is placed in the 4th house along with 
the lord of the 4th house, then during its period the native may 
acquire conveyances, landed property, cattle, clothes and a new 
house. He may command respect and friendship. He may have 
company of good and learned people. If the ascendant lord 
occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th amsa from the amsa occupied by 
the lord of the 4th house in the Navamsa Chart aforesaid good 
results may be moderated; the native may have quarels or 
misunderstandings with his mother, may have a fall from a 
Vahana, may incur loss from lands, gardens, house, vehicles, cattle 
etc. He may experience both pleasure and pain in Dasa and 
Bhukti of ascendant lord in such circumstances. 


Dasas of lone ascendant lord in the 4th house may give all 


16 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


such good results even if the 4th lord is placed in any house other 
than the 6th, 8th or 12th house. 


In the 5th house : 


lf the ascendant lord be placed in the 5th house along with 
the lord of the 5th house then during Dashas or Antar Dashas of 
the 1st lord, the native may get royal favour and be respected by 
his friends and relatives. A child may be born to him or otherwise 
he may have happiness from his children. He may worship gods. 
He may hold high posts. He may earn favour of father and grace 
of the government. He may enter government service during this 
period. But, if the ascendant lord be placed in the 6th, 8th or 12 
amsa from the amsa occupied by lord of the 5th house in the 
Navamsa Chart, aforesaid good results may not accrue fully but 
bad effects such as displeasure of the superiors, quarrels with 
father and issues, bad name in service, displeasure of gods and 
rulers may also be possible. 


Lone ascendant lord in the 5th house may give equally good 
results in its Dasha or Antar-Dasha in our view if the 5th lord is 
placed in any house other than the 6th, 8th and 12th houses. 
Connection between the ascendant lord and the 5th lord 
constitutes a powerful Raja Yoga and a powerful Dhana Yoga 
according to Parashar. Accordingly, both these lords in their 
periods are said to be giving quite auspicious results by followers 
of Parashar. 


In the 6th house : 


If the ascendant lord be placed in the 6th house along with 
the 6th lord, Dasha of such ascendant lord may prove to be bad. 
The native may have troubles from the government, litigation with 
partners, quarrels with others, injury from cuts and wounds. His 
limbs may be affected. He may even suffer poverty in this period. 
The effects will, however, be reversed if the lord of the 6th house 
be debilitated and the ascendant lord be exalted in Navamsa 
Chart. Under these conditions, the native may not suffer from 
diseases and other kinds of troubles in the Dasa of the ascendant 
lord. Rather, the native may work in the Army, Navy or Airforce 
as a chief. He may have success in war, litigation, rivalries etc. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 17 


In the 7th house : 


If the ascendant lord is placed in the 7th house along with 
the lord of the 7th house, the native may have some journey 
regarding his livelihood during period of the ascendant lord. He 
may celebrate auspicious ceremonies like marriage etc. in his 
house. He may have various pleasures of life. If the 7th house 
falls in a moveable sign, the native may have journey to distant or 
foreign places but if it falls in fixed sign, the native may be in his 
own place. If it falls in dual sign, the native may even go to foreign 
countries. If the ascendant lord be weak in strength; the native 
may be merely wandering without any gains. If the ascendant 
lord be placed in the 6th, 8th and 12th amsa from the amsa 
occupied by the lord of the 7th house in Navamsa Chart, good 
results may be adversely affected. The native may not go on any 
fruitful journey. There may not be any auspicious celebration ir 
the house, conjugal happiness may also suffer. 


As far as we understand lone ascendant lord in the 7th house 
may increase significations and prospects of the 7th house in its 
Dasa and Antar Dasa if the 7th lord is placed in a house other 
than the 6th, 8th and 12th houses. 


In the 8th house : 


If the lord of the ascendant be placed in the 8th house along 
with the 8th lord, the effects may be very bad in Dasa of such 
ascendant lord. The native may suffer extreme poverty. He may 
have attacks of diseases. He may do mean and sinful acts. He 
may incur debts also. If, however, the lord of the ascendant be 
placed in the 6th, 8th or 12th amsa from the amsa occupied by 
the lord of the 8th house, the evil effects will be moderate. The 
native may not suffer from diseases and debts and may not perform 
vileous and sinful deeds provided the lord of the 8th house may 
be also powerless. 


Lone ascendant lord in the 8th house in its Dasa or Bhukti 
must cause hurdles in the way to progress and peace in our views. 


In the 9th house : 


ff the lord of the ascendant be placed in the 9th house along 
with the 9th lord, the native may get wealth from his property in 


18 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


its period. He may become very rich and also famous for his 
large scale charitable deeds. If, however, the lord of the ascendant 
be placed in the 6th, 8th or 12th amsa from the amsa occupied by 
the lord of the 9th house in Navamsa Chart the effects may be 
reverse. The native may not get any property from his father. He 
may not do virtuous deeds. An exalted ascendant lord in 
conjunction with the 9th lord in the 9th house may make the native 
earn much wealth. He may renovate Shiva and Vishnu temples. 
This is, however, possible only in case of Leo and Aquarius 
Lagnas. 


In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the ascendant be placed in the 10th house along 
with the 10th lord, the native may attain name and fame, status 
and rank in life, may hold an influential post, get promotions in 
service and rise in profession in periods of such ascendant lord. 
{f such lord of the ascendant be in the 6th, 8th or 12th amsas from 
the amsa occupied by the 10th lord in Navamsa Chart, effects 
may also be bad. The native may also earn a bad name in his 
office or in his job. He may not always perform his duties so well. 
He may gradually lose his influence and his orders may not always 
be obeyed. He may sometimes commit unbecoming acts too. 
Lone ascendant lord in the 10th house in its Dasa or Bhukti may 
give professional rise if 10th lord is placed in a house other than 
the 6th, 8th and 12 house. In case 10th lord is ill-placed, hurdles 
may come in way of professional rise. 


In the 11th house : 


If the lord of the ascendant be placed in the 11th house along 
with the 11th lord, Dasha or Bhukti of the ascendant lord may 
prove to be quite beneficial. The native may make enormous 
strides and profits in his business. Those in service may even get 
out-of-turn promotions in our view. Some persons may even get 
money from elder brother. The native may have gains in many 
ways. If, however, the lord of the ascendant be placed in the 6th, 
8th or 12th amsa from the amsa occupied by the lord of the 11th 
house, there may be very little gains and very little happiness. 
The native may quarrel with his elder brother. If, however, the 
ascendant lord and the lord of the 11th house be enemies there 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 19 


may be constant obstacles to gains. 


It will not be out of place to mention here that as a rule, 
Satyacharya adhered to the view that the 6th, 8th and 12th houses 
and their lords are only evils. He did not treat the 3rd and 11th 
house and their lords also inauspicious as propounded by Neo- 
Parasarians. He, however, was conscious of the fact that the 
2nd, 3rd and 11th houses are Leena (weak) houses and their 
lords too weak in giving auspicious results. As 11th was 
considered to be a weak house, obstacles to gains could be possible 
in Dasa or Antar Dasa of the lord of the ascendant or of the lord 
of any house who may be on inimical terms with the 11th lord. In 
Aries Lagna Mars in the 11th house in inimical sign Aquarius, in 
Virgo Lagna Mercury in the 11th house in inimical sign Cancer, 
in Libra Lagna Venus in the 11th house in inimical sign Leo, in 
Scorpio Lagna Mars in the 11th house in inimical sign Virgo, in 
Sagittarius Lagna Jupiter in the 11th house in inimical sign Libra, 
and in Capricorn Lagna Satum in the 11th house in inimical sign 
Scorpio in their Dasas or Bhuktis must be causing hurdles to gain, 
affluence and promotion. 


In the 12 house : 


If the lord of the ascendant be placed in the 12th house along 
with the 12th lord, the native during periods of the ascendant lord 
may become poor and lose even ancestral wealth and property. 
He may live in foreign countries or quite away from his native 
place and may lead an unhappy life there, wandering here and 
‘there. Some good effects will also be there if the lord of Lagna be 
in his own sign but this is possible only in case of Aquarius Lagna. 
As far as we understand, ascendant lord in own navamsa too 
may give some good effects. 


- Satyacharya made it clear in this way: “While predicting the 
results of Dasas of planets, position of the planets in Rashi, 
Navamsha and Trimsamsa Charts should be duly considered and 
also the effects of the planets conjoined with or aspecting such 
planet. Due consideration should be paid to the strength of planets. 
Mutual exchange of planets, Yogas caused by the planets, Karkatwa 
of planets and other relevant factors should be carefully weighed 
and judged and then final conclusion arrived at”. 


20 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dash. 
The effects of results of the lords of houses may be determined 
with reference to the following eight factors namely, 
(1) The nature of the Rashi occupied by such Bhava-lord; 
(2) The nature of the Bhava owned by such Bhava-lord; 
(3) The nature of the Bhava occupied by such Bhava-lord; 
(4) The nature of Karakatwa of such planet; 
(5) The nature (benefic or malefic) of the planet; 
(6) The nature of the planets in association with such Bhava- 
lord planet; 
(7) The nature of planets aspecting such Bhava-lord; 


(8) Effects of mutual exchange of planets and various other 
special combinations on such Bhava-lord. 


Underlying principle for Bhukti Results 

Satyacharya said that the results of Bhukti are again 
influenced by the following eight factors : 

(1) The lord of the major period (The Dashanath); 

(2) Planets aspecting Dashanath; 

(3) Planets conjoined with Dashanath; 

(4) Dispositor of Dashanath; 

(5) Navamsa-lord of Dashanath; 

(6) Trimamsamsa-lord of Dashanath; 

(7) The lord of the 9th house and 

(8) The planets in trine to the ascendant. 
Satyacharya says that Rahu and Ketu give the results of the 


lord of the Rashi in which they are placed. So also they give the 
results of the planets with which they are conjoined. 


According to him, the lord of the Bhukti or sub-lord generally 
gives results according to the house in which it is placed, the house 
it owns and the Rashi through which it transits during the sub- 
period. Good results of sub-lord will be more pronounced when 
it is strong by occupying exaltation, own or friendly sign or a trine. 
If sub-lord is a malefic, bad results will be more pronounced. If it 
is of the mixed type, it may give mixed results. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 21 


Satyacharya, like followers of Ududaypradeep shares the 
view that Dashanatha or major lord in its own Bhukti or sub-periods 
does not give its own results. Satyacharya says that it gives results 
according to the results of the previous Bhukti, modified by its own 
nature. The results of the previous Bhukti do continue however. 
But if Dashanatha or major lord yields its results in its own Bhukti, 
such major lord may not give its results during the sub-periods of 
other planets. This, however, will happen only if the major lord is 
very strong and other planets comparatively weak. 


If Major lord be a Benefic and Bhukti-lord be a Malefic, 
Bhukti-lord in its Bhukti may not give evil results. It may be passive. 
Satyacharya further held that a Major lord under Shubha Kartari 
Yoga, that is, when sandwitched between benefics, must give good 
results during its Dasha whereas major lord sandwitched between 
malefics, that is, under Papa Kartari Yoga will give bad results 
during its Dasha. We understand, sub-lords too under Shubha 
Kartari and Papa Kartari Yogas may give good and bad results 
respectively in their Bhuktis. 


If major lord is both a Maraka Graha or Keller Planet and a 
benefic by nature, the sub-period of the 8th lord from Lagna may 
cause death of the native. lf , however, the lord of the 8th house 
itself be a Maraka, under the circumstances death will not take 
place in that period. 


Satyacharya carved out a new path altogether in respect of 
the order of Bhuktis in a Dasha. He relied on the order of the 
planetary strength of planets arranged in their descending order 
of Shad-Bala strength. Let us assume that planets in descending 
order of Shad-Bala strength are as follows : 


(1) Mars; (2) Saturn; (3) Sun; (4) Jupiter; (5) Venus; (6) Moon; 
(7) Mercury; (8) Ketu; (9) Rahu. We may have to fix sub-periods in the 
aforesaid order in any Maha Dasha. This system, however, is never 
followed in Vimshottari Dasha. It could have been made applicable to 
Naisargika Dasha which has since gone obsolete in use. 


Second important point to be noted,is that under the 
Parashari Vimshottari Dasha System periods of Maha Dasha and 
Antar Dasha and their order of priority are all fixed ones and the 
same cannot be changed whatsoever may be the strength of major 


22 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


lord or sub-lord. It is a different matter that a strong planet in its 
Dasha or Bhukti may give good results whereas a weak planet it 
its Dasha or Bhukti may give bad results. 

Under Parashari Dasha System two more points are notable: 


(a) Ist sub-period of a Maha Dasha which is the sub-period 
of major lord itself in its Maha Dasha is said to be defunct as far 
as its functional lordship is concerned. It is said that the major 
lord in its own sub-period wil give the results only related to its 
Karakatwa or significance and it will give the results of its House- 
lordship in sub-period of planet associated with it, that is, in sub- 
period of Saha-Karmi planet or in sub-period of Saha-Dharmi 
planet in Maha Dasha of concerned planet. Saha Karmi is 
associating planet. Saha-Dharmi means planets of similar nature. 
For example a natural benefic may give its results in Bhukti of 
other natural benefic. A Kendra-lord may give results in Bhukti of 
another Kendra-lord. A trine-lord may give its result in Bhukti of 
another trine-lord. A Trika lord may give its result in Bhukti of 
another Trika lord. A retrograde planet may give its result in Bhukti 
of another retrograde planet. A combust planet may give its result 
in Bhukti of another combust planet. An exalted planet may give 
its results in Bhukti of another exalted planet. A debilitated planet 
may give its results in Bhukti of another debilitated planet. 


(b) The last sub-period of any Maha Dasha known as Dasha- 
Chhidra is held to be either inauspicious or quite weak in giving 
good results. Dasha-Chhidras of malefics such as Ravi Antar in 
Chandra Dasha, Kuja Antar in Rahu Dasha, Rahu Antar in Guru 
Dasha, Sani Antar in Budha Dasha and Ketu Antar in Shukra 
Dasha are more harmful. 


Now, Satyacharya says that a Dashanatha will not yield 
results in its own Bhukti in harmony with or appropriate to its 
nature but it will yield results which are in consonance with or 
which are a continuation of the results of the previous Bhukti. If, 
however, Dasha Natha yields its own appropriate results in its 
own Bhukti, such Dasha Natha will not yield its own appropriate 
results in the other Bhuktis of its Dasha through the other sub- 
lords. This may happen only when major lord is very powerful 
while the other sub-lords are powerless. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 23 


As far as we understand, Satyacharya wanted to convey the 
following points : 


(i) If major lord is very powerful and its other sub-lords eight 
in number are either powerless or very weak major lord in its sub- 
period which is the first sub-period of major period will give its 
own results and in remaining eight sub-periods major lord may 
not give its own results. Satyacharya perhaps erred in 
understanding the basic Dasha-rule that major lord ruled ove 
and influenced the course of events during Maha Dasha in a 
dominating way and that various sub-periods of a Maha Dasha 
were only parts or constitutents of a Maha Dasha. Therefore, 
major lord has always the remote control in its hands to 
rule over all its sub-periods. We, however, share views with 
Satyacharya that Major lord when very powerful, must be showing 
its Bhava-Phala and Karaka Phala in somewhat more prominent 
way but it will be wrong to say that major lord will have no say in 
other eight sub-periods to follow in suit. 


(ii) As a rule, in remaining cases barring the case of a very 
powerful major lord discussed in (i) Dasha Natha or Major lord 
in its own Bhukti may give the results of previous Bhukti which is 
nothing but last Bhukti or Dasha-Chhidra of preceding Maha 
Dasha. We agree that effects of Dasha-Chhidra of 
preceding Maha Dasha cannot be wiped out overnight 
on commencement of new Maha Dasha. Effects of Dasha- 
Chhidra may be carried forward to sub-period of major 
lord in its own Dasha. But on advent of new Maha 
Dasha and its constant progress new changes in line 
with new major lord will start taking place. At least the 
beginning portion of the first sub-period may have the 
reflections of an out going Dasha and an incoming Dasha. 


(iii) If major lord is a benefic and sub-lord is a malefic, major 
lord may go neutral, according to Satyacharya. As far as we 
understand, sub-lord may give some unfavourable results but 
major lord may not allow a free hand to the sub-lord. 


(iv) A malefic major lord or a malefic sub-lord with 
Papakartari Yoga may give most inauspicious results in its Dasha 
or Bhukti but a malefic major lord or a malefic sub-lord with 


24 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Shubhakartari Yoga may also yield favourable results in its Dasha 
or Bhukti. A benefic major lord or a benefic sub-lord with 
Subhakartari Yoga may give most auspicious results in its Dasha 
or Bhukti but a benefic major lord of a benefic sub-lord with 
Papakartari Yoga may also yield some unfavourable results in its 
Dasha or Bhukti. 


(v) Satyacharya said that rules of Dashanath applied equally 
good to Bhuktinath. 


Principles discussed here apply to all major lords and all sub- 
lords. 


CHAPTER-IV 


DASHAS OF THE LORD OF 
THE 2ND HOUSE IN 
VARIOUS HOUSES 


In Lagna or Ist house : 


If the lord of the 2nd house is posited in Lagna or in the 1s 
house along with Lagnesh, there may be a growth of family ir 
Dasha of the 2nd lord. The native’s words will be respected anc 
valued, The native may spend his money in good and virtuous 
ways. He may acquire name and fame as a rich philanthropist. 
We feel, it may give wealth, education, power and position. If the 
2nd lord is weak, the native may earn only a small amount ol 
money. If the 2nd lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from 
the amsa occupied by Lagnesh in Navamsa Chart, the native 
may be miserly, foolhardy and turbulent. Good results may be 
very feeble. 

In the 2nd house : 


If the lord of the 2nd house is strong in the second house 
itself, the native may earn much wealth during its own Dasha. 
But if the ascendant lord be weak, the native will not be able to 
enjoy his wealth but will save it without spending it. {f the 
ascendant lord be strong, the native may enjoy his wealth and he 
will be respected. As the second house also indicates family and 
education, these two may also thrive during such Dasha. But if 
the 2nd lord be in the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsas from the sign in 
which it is placed in the Navamsha Chart, the native may incur 
loss of wealth or he may have merely a name as a rich man but be 
will not be really rich. As the 2nd house happens to be the 8th 
from the 7th house, there may be fear of death of his wife or 
diseases to his wife and her relatives during Dasha of the 2nd 
lord in the 2nd house. 


26 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


In the 3rd house : 


If the lord of the 2nd house be in the 3rd house along with the 
lord of the 3rd house, native’s wealth may continue to grow and 
increase in Dasha of such 2nd lord. His brother may also gain 
wealth and may start managing the family. If the 2nd lord be strong, 
the native may earn wealth through music, dance, sports, skill of 
hands, bravery, courage etc. but if the second lord be weak, actual 
gains may be very little. If the lord of the 2nd house occupies the 
6th, 8th or 12th amsas from the sign in which the lord of the 3rd 
house is placed in Navamsa Chart, results may be bad. 


If the 3rd lord is placed in the 6th, 8th or 12th house in Rashi 
Chart, 2nd lord in the 3rd house may not be able to give its good 
results in effective manner. A planet and its dispositor must be 
strong and well-placed in Rashi and Navamsa Charts to give good 
effects in Dasha of such planet. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the 2nd house be in the 4th house along with 
the lord of the 4th house, the native may acquire money through 
lands, landed property of various kinds such as houses, buildings, 
farms, orchards, mines, water reservoirs etc, education, 
conveyances, ancestral property, ancestral profession and the like. 
If the lord of the 2nd house occupies 6th, 8th and 12 amsas from 
the amsa of the 4th lord in Navamsa Chart, aforesaid good effects 
of Dasha of the 2nd lord in the 4th house may not materialise. If 
the lord of the 4th house be ill-placed or otherwise weak, the native 
may have little gains. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord of the 2nd house be in the 5th house along with the 
lord of the Sth house, the native may get wealth, honour and position 
through royal favour, divine favour, good luck, sons and daughters, 
father, counselling, religious institutions etc. If the lord of the 2nd 
house occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the amsa occupied 
by the lord of the 5th house in Navamsa Chart, aforesaid results 
may not actually happen. Further, if the lords of the 2nd and the 
Sth house be weak, the native may have very little gains in Dasha 
of such 2nd lord. If the lord of Lagna or the lord of Navamsa 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 27 


Lagna be conjoined with the lord of the 2nd house, the native may 
earn wealth through ways and means controlled by lord of Lagna 
or lagna navamsa as the case may be. Good effects may be 
considerably weakened even if 5th lord be ill-placed. 


In the 6th house : 


If the lord of the 2nd house be in the 6th house along with the 
lord of the 6th house and the lord of the 2nd house be strong, the 
native may get wealth through medical practice, litigation, theft, 
service career, loan business etc. in Dasha of such 2nd lord. From 
professional point of view placement of the 2nd lord in the 9th from 
the 10th house and in the 10th from the 9th house is never 
inauspicious and it may make one a Doctor, a Magistrate, a Judge, 
a Prosecutor, a Police officer, a Lawyer, an Army officer, a Dealer 
in arms or Medicine, a loan-officer and the like. 2nd lord in the 6th 
house, however, is not favourable for the accumulation of wealth 
or increase of bank balance. Experience says whenever the 
2nd lord combines with the 6th lord or they have mutual 
aspects or they exchange their houses, the native may 
not have a big bank balance. If the lord of the 6th house be 
weak, the native may have little gains. If the 2nd lord occupies the 
6th, 8th or 12th amsa from the amsa occupied by the lord of the 
6th house in Navamsa Chart, there may not be even little gains. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 2nd house be in the 7th house along with the 
7th lord, the native may have gains from his father-in-law in Dasha 
of the 2nd lord. He may live in a foreign place with his family. He 
may get much wealth in a foreign place. If his Maraka period 
coincides with Dasha of the 2nd lord, the native may die in the same 
Dasha. Reasons are obvious. Both 2nd and 7th houses are Maraka 
houses. Lone 2nd lord in the 7th house may act as ¢ killer. 
If 2nd lord joins 7th lord in the 7th house, it becomes a 
formidable killer. If the lord of the 7th house is weak or if the lord 
of the 2nd house be in the 6th, 8th or 12th amsas from the amsa 
occupied by the lord of the 7th house in the navamsa chart aforesaid 
good effects may be feeble or they may not happen at all. Even if 7th 
lord be placed in evil 6th, 8th or 12th house from Lagna in Rashi 
Chart, 2nd lord in the 7th house may give weak results. 


28 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


7th house rules over trade, war-industry etc. Like the 2nd, 
11th, 4th, 5th and 9th houses, 7th house also rules over wealth. 
Therefore, Dasa of the 2nd lord in the 7th house as a rule 
must be a wealth-giving period. There is substance of 
truth in Bhavartha Ratnakara’s stand that a planet in 
the 7th house gives wealth in its Dasa only by personal 
efforts and hard work. Few fortunate may get much 
wealth from father-in-law. 


In the 8th house : 

If the lord of the 2nd house be placed in the 8th house along 
with the 8th lord, the native may be involved in heavy debts in 
Dasha of the lord of the 2nd house. His wife may die. In some 
cases the native or his wife may commit misdeeds. The native 
may not be happy. His wealth may be spent away. Many evil 
results may happen. Malefics in inimical signs or a 
debilitated planet in the 8th house may cause one 
misfortune after another. If the lord of the 2nd house 
be placed in the 6th, 8th or 12th amsa from the amsa 
occupied by the lord of the 8th house in Navamsa Chart 
evil results may not happen or they may be just opposite. 
If the lord of the 8th house be devoid of strength, the 
native may lead a miserable life in a far-off place and 
may even eat food of degraded kind. 

No doubt, presence of the 2nd lord in the 8th house 
may cause misfortunes on account of greed for money 
but as the 2nd lord in the 8th house will have aspect on 
the 2nd house it may make one wealthy through some 
will or through exploration of new ideas of some research 
work. Inspite of hurdles 2nd lord in the 8th house may 
not deny Raja Yoga. 2nd lord elevates the position of a 
native in the same way as the 10th lord does. As the 
2nd lord in the 8th house will be aspecting the 2nd 
house and as it will be in the 11th from the 10th house, 
it must elevate the position of the native. 


In the 9th house : 
If the lord of the 2nd house be in the 9th house along with 
the lord of the 9th house, the native may earn much wealth during 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 29 


Dasha of the 2nd lord. If alive, his father may also. experience 
some very fortunate results. If the lord of the 9th house is weak 
good results may be considerably weakened. if the lord of the 
2nd house be placed in the 6th, 8th, or 12th Amsa from the Amsa 
occupied by the 9th lord in Navamsa Chart good results may be 
further weakened. 


If Dasha of the 2nd lord in the 9th house falls during student- 
life, it may give good results in education and family matters. 


In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the 2nd house be in the 10th house along with 
the 10 lord, the native may get wealth through government 
connected works or through trade, business, gifts etc. Effects may 
be more pronounced if there be a Raja Yoga in addition. For 
example, if 2nd cum 5th lord Mercury joins 9th cum 10th lord 
Saturn in the 10th house, Dasha of 2nd lord Mercury may give 
results of a perfect Raja Yoga. If the lord of the 2nd house is weak 
or if the lord of the 10th house is afflicted or otherwise weak, 
actual gains may be very little or the native may earn money in 
some unscrupulous manner. If the lord of the 2nd house occupies 
the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied by the lord of 
the 10th house in Navamsa Chart aforesaid good results may not 
happen and the native may be in some undesireabe occupation. 
With the 10th lord it may give success in getting a suitable job 
through competitive examinations. 


In the 11th house : 


\f the lord of the 2nd house be posited in the 11th house 
along with the 11th lord, the native may have much gain of wealth 
in Dasha of the 2nd lord. In some cases the native may get wealth 
of his elder brother but in most cases the native may have high 
gains in whatever vocation or profession he may be following. 
He will have profits or gains during the Dasha of the lord of the 
2nd house but his profits or gains may be determined by the nature 
of the lordship of the planets conjoined with the lord of the second 
house or by the nature of the lord of amsa in which the lord of the 
2nd house is placed in Navamsa Chart. If the lord of the 2nd 
house occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied 


30 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


by the lord of the 11th house in Navamsa Chart, aforesaid good 
effects may not happen or they may be considerably reduced. If 
the lord of the 11th house be weak then also there may be very 
little gains. 


In the 12th house : 


If the lord of the second house is posited in the 12th house 
along with the 12th lord, the native may have huge expenses in 
Dasha of the lord of the 2nd lord and the ways of expenses will be 
signified by the planets conjoined with the lord of the 2nd and 
12th houses. If there is no association of other planets with the 
2nd and the 12th lords, the ways and means of expenditure may 
be determined from the nature of the 12th lord only. If the 2nd 
lord and the 12th lord are weak expenses may be on a small scale. 
If the lord of the 2nd house occupies the 6th, 8th or 
12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied by the 12th lord in 
Navamsa Chart, there may be more fear of expenditure 
than actual expenditure. There, however, may be mental 
worry or derangement or aberration of mind to the native 
or there may be trouble or disease to the wife or some 
other family member during Dasha of such 2nd lord. 


Summing up effects of the 2nd lord Satyacharya says that 
the lord of the 2nd house in its Dasha may be influenced by the 
following additional factors : 


(1) Planets conjoining with or planets aspecting the lord of 
the 2nd house. 


(2) Dispositor of the 2nd lord. 
(3) Navamsa-lord or Trimsamsa-lord of the 2nd lord. 


(4) Lordship of the planets aspecting or conjoining the lord 
of the 2nd house. 


Satyacharya says that aforesaid principles apply equally good 
to delineation of Dashaphala and Bhuktiphalas of the lord of the 
2nd house or another lord. 


CHAPTER-v 
EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 


_LORD OF THE 3RD HOUSE IN 
VARIOUS HOUSES 


In the ascendant : 


If the lord of the 3rd house is placed in the ascendant along 
with the ascendant. lord, Dasha of the lord of the 3rd house may 
give very fortunate results. The native may conquer his enemies. 
He may earn money through music, skill of hand, writings, 
weapons, sports, acts of courage, surgery, dance, drama etc. 1: 
the ascendant lord be conjoined with malefic planets, the native 
may be in bad and despicable profession. If the lord of the 3rd 
house occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied 
by the ascendant lord in Navamsa Chart, the native may be 
engaged in fruitless or unprofitable undertakings requiring much 
labour but yielding very little rewards. 


In the 2nd house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house be in the 2nd house, along with 
2nd lord, the native may lose his brother or his mother, may 
become ill during Dasha of the 3rd lord. If the lord of the 3rd 
house be in its own sign in the 2nd house (possible only in case. 
of Sagittarius) the native may have to support his brother’s or 
sister's family also. If the 3rd lord be strong, native’s brothers or. 
sisters may have acquisition of wealth during the Dasha of the 
3rd lord. If the 3rd lord be weak, contrary results are possible. A 
strong 3rd lord in the 2nd house may confer a good post on the 
native in its Dasha. If the lord of the 3rd house occupies the 6th, 
8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied by the 2nd lord in 
Navamsa Chart, contrary results may not occur even if the 3rd 
lord be weak. 


32 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


In the 3rd house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house be placed in its own house the 
native's brothers or sisters may thrive well in Dasha of the 3rd 
lord. The native may have increased wealth and power. He may 
do courageous acts. He may have short travels. He may have 
pleasure of wealth, comforts and sons. He may be a minister or a 
ruler. It may confer earnings from the government. It may give 
proficiency in job. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house be in the 4th house with the 4th 
lord, the native's brother may be happy and become famous during 
Dasha of the 3rd lord. The native may buy vehicles and 
conveyances. He may have gains through education and lands. 
He may manage the affairs of his village. If the lord of the 4th 
house be weak, his mother may suffer from diseases and there 
may be damage to his crops. If the lord of the 3rd house be weak, 
his lands may be partitioned or he may construct a new house. 
During Dasha of the 3rd lord, in the sub-period of a weak planet, 
the native may fall from vehicles or conveyances of any kind or 
there may be disruptions in his education, leadership, popularity 
and happiness of mind. If the lord of the 3rd house occupies the 
6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied by the 4th lord in 
Navamsa Chart, the native may have no Vahana-Sukha and any 
other kind of comforts. 


3rd lord represents hands, courage and speed. 4th house 
represents lands, farms, agriculture, mines, minerals, water 
resources, houses, vehicles, transport, leadership, education , 
ancestral property, mills and factories etc. Presence of 3rd lord in 
the 4th house may give earnings from such sources. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house be placed in the 5th house along 
with the Sth lord, the native may himself or his brother may get 
some high patronage and a prominent position in Dasha of the 
3rd lord. He may get wealth and position through the grace of 
some Devata. If the 3rd lord be very weak, the native may live as 
a cook or as a musician. If the 3rd lord be moderately weak, the 


Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 33 


native may have some gains. If the lord of the 3rd house be very 
strong, the native may get wealth through government. If the 3rd 
lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied 
by the Sth lord in Navamsa Chart, the native may have 
unhappiness and disappointments on account of his undertakings 
becoming futile. If, however, the lord of the 3rd house be in Kendra 
or Trikona in Navamsa Chart, the native may have acquisition of 
wealth and comforts. He will be fortunate and happy. The effects 
should be determined with reference to the significations or 
Karakatwa of planets and houses associated with the 3rd and the 
5th house and their lords. 


In the 6th house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house is posited in the 6th house along 
with the lord of the 6th house, the native’s brother or sister may 
become his enemy or the brother or sister may fall ill and may 
suffer from stomach troubles like dropsy or enlargement of spleen. 
As the lord of the 3rd house represents arms, legs, hands 
and ears, occupation of the 6th house by the 3rd lord in 
our opinion may give diseases in such parts of the body 
or it may cause injury to them in Dasha of the 3rd lord. 


According to Satyacharya, if the 3rd lord in the 6th 
house has a Shubha Yoga having the aspect or conjunction 
of a benefic, the native may have an employment in military 
or police department or he may have an administrative 
post carrying an official seal such as Magistracy or an 
officer of court. He may get wealth through his maternal 
uncle. If there is an association of lords of the 8th and 
the 12th houses with the lord of the 3rd house in the 6th 
house in conjunction with the 6th lord, Dasha of the lord 
of the 3rd house may produce auspicious Yoga and the 
native may be possessed of wealth, vahana and apparels 
and above all a good fortune. We may say that it will 
give fortunate results something like Viporeeta Raja Yoga. 
But if the lord of the 3rd house is combined only with the 6th lord in 
the 6th house, the native may suffer from ear-disease or ear trouble 
necessitating ear-operation according to the nature of planets. As 
we know, Mars, Rahu or Ketu may often enforce suraical anerations. 


34 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


If the lord of the third house be weak the native’s disease may 
increase in its intensity. lf, however, the lord of the 3rd house 
occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied by the 
6th lord in Navamsa Chart, the effects may be different. He may 
have neither enemies nor friends. 


Although Satyacharya has upheld association of benefics 
in the 6th house as more auspicious, presence of malefics in 
Upachya (3rd, 6th and 11th) houses are more welcome. Of 
course, a benefic aspect on a malefic placed in the 6th house will 
enhance its effects. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house be in the 7th house in conjunction 
with the 7th lord, native's brother may go to a far-off land during 
the Dasha of the 3rd lord. If the lord of the 7th house is associated 
with a benefic planet, the native’s brother may be happy on account 
of his residence in a foreign land. If the lord of the 7th house is 
weak in a moveable Rashi, the native's brother may have either 
unhappiness or death in foreign land. The native may at the same 
time enjoy happiness through his father-in-law or he may have his 
wife-side people go prosperous or will have a second wife during 
the Dasha of the lord of the 3rd house. If the lord of the 3rd house is 
associated with more planets, they too may have their impacts. If 
the lord of the 3rd house occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from 
the Amsa occupied by the lord of the 7th house in Navamsa-Chart, 
so-called death or foreign travel etc. will not happen in Dasha of 
the lord of the 3rd house but if the lord of the 3rd house be in 
Trikona or Kendra or 11th Amsa in Navamsa-Chart the native may 
experience auspicious results. If the lord of the 3rd house be weak 
and also if the lord of the 7th house be weak, the native's brother 
will be begging in foreign lands ruled over by the planets. They 
may always be disposed to wandering, and be inclined to lead a 
bad life. If the 7th house be in a watery Rashi, the native may go 
on holy pilgrimages. 


As far as we understand, the 3rd lord represents 
self-efforts more than brothers. Brothers are no doubt 
supposed to be helping hands but we can depend more 
on our hands than on helping hands of brothers. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 35 


We, therefore, deem it more probable that placement of the 
3rd lard in the 7th house may normally offer opportunities 
to the native to eke out his living through self-efforts. 
The native may have immense scope of rise in career 
through trade and business or through partnership 
dealings. He may have his place of business or 
employment at far-off places or in foreign lands. As the 
3rd lord will be in a Kendra from Lagna and in the 5th from the 
3rd house we see no reason why it will not give prosperity through 
diligence in occupational matters as the 7th house is the 10th 
from the 10 house. Again, we like to remind the golden rule of 
Bhavartha Ratnakara which says that a planet in the 7th house 
in its Dasha gives earnings through self-efforts. Naturally, the 3rd 
‘ord as the lord of self-efforts in the 7th house must make one rich 
through self-efforts in its Dasha unless the 3rd lord be badly 
afflicted. There is a proverb which says that “God helps only 
those who help themselves” ( 3TT 84 A=). In astrology 
it is to be watched carefully if natives having their 3rd lord placed 
either in the 7th house (5th from the 3rd house) or in the 11th 
house (9th from the 3rd house) are capable of making their fortunes 
in Dasha of the 3rd lord and planets associated with the 3rd lord 
or not. If Jupiter placed in the 3rd, Lagna or 11th house fully 
aspects the 3rd lord placed in,the 7th house, it may show the 


wonders of a Mida‘s touch (Una Haat B clear wt aT et wa). 


In the 8th house : 

If the lord of the 3rd house is posited in the 8th house along 
with the lord of the 8th house, the native’s brother may suffer from 
ear-diseases and may also have troubles through enemies during 
Dasha of the 3rd lord. The same troubles can happen to the native 
also. As Dasha of the 3rd lord placed in the 8th house 
may cause defeat at the hands of enemies, such a period 
may give defeat in any kind of election or litigation also 
in our view. As the 3rd house represents hands and feet 
3rd lord in the 8th house may cause troubles in hands, 
arms or feet also. If the lord of the 3rd house also happens to be 
the lord of the 8th house as in case of Virgo and Pisces Lagnas then 
also in its Dasha it may give aforesaid kinds of results. If the lords 
of the 6th, 8th and 12th houses combine with the 3rd lord in the 8th 


36 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


house, the native may amass good amount of wealth during the 
Dasha of the 3rd lord. If the lord of the 3rd house is aspected by or 
is in conjunction with the benefics or if it occupies the 6th, 8th or 
12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied by the 8th lord in Navamsa 
Chart, the same may also give affluence during Dasha of the 3rd 
lord. If, on the other hand the lord of the 3rd house occupies a 
Kendra or Trikona position from the Amsa occupied by the lord of 
the 8th house in Navamsa Chart, Dasha of the lord of the 3rd house 
may give contrary results. Generally, Dasha of the 3rd lord placed 
in the 8th house is a troublesome one. If it be combined with or 
aspected by some malefic, Dasha of the 3rd lord may give poverty, 
some dire disease and other misfortunes. 


In the 9th house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house be placed in the 9th house along 
with the 9th lord, the native’s brother may be wealthy during Dasha 
of the 3rd lord. The native’s father’s wealth or patrimony may 
grow in magnitude and the native’s charity may be augmented if 
there is Shubha Yoga. If the lord of the third house is weak or if it 
is with an Ashubha Yoga, the native may have a little wealth. If it 
is associated with a benefic, its Dasha may increase wealth. If, 
however, the lord of the 3rd house be associated with a malefic 
the native’s wealth may decrease and his father may suffer from 
disease. If the lord of the 9th house be weak, misunderstanding 
with father, loss of patrimony or obstacles to rise in fortune may 
be the possible results. If the lord of the 3rd house be in the 6th, 
8th or 12th amsa from the amsa of the lord of the 9th house in 
Navamsa Chart, Dasha of the 3rd lord may not give favourable 
results. 


As the 3rd lord in the 9th house will aspect the 3rd 
house, the native may have rise in his fortune through 
personal efforts or through skill of his hands or through 
some written examination or through some act of valour 
and courage in Dasha of the 3rd lord as witnessed by us 
in several cases. 


In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house is placed in the 10th house along 
with the 10th lord, it may cause impediments and interruptions in 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 37 


the native’s business or profession in Dasha of the 3rd lord. If the 

3rd lord is associated with a maletic, the native may acquire 

notoriety or ill-reputation, his brother may follow a mean and 

ignoble occupation and may do despicable and repulsive deeds.’ 
If the lord of the 3rd house is associated with a benefic, | 
the native or his brother may be in the government 
service. Only if the 3rd lord be with a Shubha Yoga in the 10th’ 
house, the native or his brother may thrive in business or profession 

and may have rank and status in the society. If there is Ashubha 

Yoga with the 3rd lord, reverse effects are possible. As the 10th 

house is the 8th from the 3rd house like the 8th house the 6th 

from the 3rd house, 3rd lord in the 10th house like the 3rd 

lord in the 8th house will normally give unfavourable 

results. |f the lord of the 3rd house is in the 6th, 8th or 12th: 
Amsa from the Amsa of the lord of the 10th house in Navamsa 

Chart, it may definitely give some set-backs in profession during 

the Dasha of the 3rd lord. 


In the 11th house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house is posited in the 11th house along 
with the 11th lord, Dasa of the 3rd lord may give quite fortunate 
and prosperous results to the native’s younger and elder brothers. 
The nature of business or trade may be determined with references 
to the planets influencing the 11th house and the Rashi of the 
1ith house. If the lord of the 3rd house is weak, there may be 
little gains or quite moderate gains. If the lord of the 3rd house 
accupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa occupied by 
the 11th lord, the native’s younger brother may be poor while his 
elder brother may be well-off. If the lord of the 3rd house be ina 
feminine Rashi combined with female planets, aforesaid results 
have to be predicted for the native’s sisters. 


As the 3rd lord in the 11th house will be in the 9th 
from the 3rd house and as the 3rd house represents 
merits, talents and self-efforts, it will be more 
reasonable to say that the native may have as a rule 
rise in his fortune through his own merits, talents, skill 
of hands and personal efforts in Dasha of the 3rd lord in 
the 11th house. 


In the 12th house : 


If the lord of the 3rd house be in the 12th house along with 
the 12th lord and also if the 3rd lord be very weak, Dasha of the 
lord of the 3rd house may cause death of younger brothers and 
sisters. There may be fear of enemies and ear-diseases. The 
native may always be in a vascilating or wavering mood. If the 
12th house falls in a moveable Rashi, the native himself or his 
brother may stay in a foreign land. If that Rashi is fixed the native 
or his brother may stay in homeland. Association of other planets 
may. also modify these results. 


As the 3rd lord also represents longevity, talents, merits and 
personal efforts of the native it will be more reasonable to say that 
the native may have fear of life in Dasha of the 3rd lord placed in 
the 12th house more so if such 3rd lord is connected with the 
2nd, 6th or 7th lord too. We have seen in case of Leo Lagna that 
Venus-Mercury combine in the 12th house being aspected by 
Saturn placed in the 6th house gave frequent fear of life in Dasha 
of Venus particularly in Bhukti of Saturn and Mercury. 3rd lord 
in the 12th house gives better opportunity of rise in 
career in foreign land or at distant places. As the 12th 
house is in 10th from the 3rd house, 3rd lord in the 12th house may 
not be as bad as feared so. 


Finally, Satyacharya says that : 


“We should make predictions with reference to the position 
and association of the lords of the other houses or Bhavas and of 
their lords. We should take into account also the effects of the 
planets which are aspecting or are in conjunction with the planets 
under study. 


When a particular Bhava or house is under study : 

(1) the planets that are in the 6th, 8th and 12th from such 
Bhava or House; 

(2) the planets that are in the 6th, 8th and 12th Amsas from 
the Amsa of the lord of that Bhava or House; 

(3) the planets that are in the Drekkana or Trimsamsa of the 
lords of the 6th, 8th or 12th Bhava from that Bhava or from that 
lord of that Bhava; may give bad results in their Dashas and 


Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 39 


Bhuktis on account of their aspects or conjunctions. If these 
planets are situated in Trikonas or Kendras from that Bhava or 
lord of that Bhava, they may confer good or auspicious results. 
We should ascertain the effects of Dasha accordingly. Bhuktis of 
the Dasha may also be ascertained following similar guidelines.” 


The aforsaid guidelines apply to all Bhava-lords or House- 
lords. We shall not repeat these general guidelines while dealing 
with Dasha-Phala of other nine Bhava-lords in various Bhavas. 


CHAPTER-VI 


EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 
LORD OF THE 4TH HOUSE 


In the Ist house : 


If the lord of the 4th house be placed in the ascendant or the 
1st house with the lord of the birth ascendant or Navamsa Lagna 
and if these two iords be friendly to each other, the native may have 
vehicles and conveyances in plenty in Dasha of the 4th lord. If 
Karaka planet Venus is strong, the native may have plenty of vehicles 
and conveyances. The 4th house also denotes education. If the 
Sun as the 4th lord occupies Lagna and is in its exaltation in Rashi 
or in its own exalted navamsa, the native may have much knowledge 
about self or Atmagyana. As Sun is Karaka of father, the native’s 
father may be happy, healthy and physically strong. As the Sun 
is Karaka of all kinds of knowledge including Science 
and Technology Gyana-Vigyana-Karaka, the Sun as the 
4th lord in Lagna may give all kinds of knowledge including 
Science and Technology. As the Sun is also Karaka of 
ruling and Administrative power, the Sun as the 4th lord 
in Lagna may also confer ruling and Administrative powers. 
It will not be out of place to mention here that Kalidasa 
and Vyankatesh have assumed the 4th house to represent 
also the kingdom. For this reason any powerful planet as 
the 4th lord in Lagna in its Dasha or Bhukti may confer 
ruling power. As the Sun and also the Moon are Karakas 
of ruling power, they as the 4th lord in Lagna in their 
Dasha or Bhukti may give ruling power. According to 
Satyacharya, a strong Moon as the 4th lord in Lagna in its Dasha 
may give good food in addition. In our view it may give learning, 
journeys, patrimony and ruling power. If Mars as the 4th lord is 
strongly placed in Lagna, the native may acquire lands and houses 
and may also be successful in debates and literary contests in its 


Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 41 


Dasha or Bhukti. In our view 4th lord Mars in Lagna may 
confer ruling power, magistracy, command of Police or 
Military, medical or surgical ability, technical or 
engineering skill etc. If Mercury as the 4th lord be strongly 
placed in Lagna, the native may be highly educated and his matema! 
uncle may prosper in Dasha of Mercury. In our view Mercury in - 
Lagna may give success in any branch of leaming. It may give 
success in commerce, trade, journalism, teaching, writing, 
doctorship, engineering accountancy, auditing, banking also. 
Jupiter as the 4th lord strongly placed in Lagna may make one a 
noble person of pure mind. In our view it may make one a teacher, 
a preceptor, a ruler, an officer, a banker, a treasurer, a legal luminary, 
a judge etc. Venus as the 4th lord strongly placed in Lagna may 
make the native-blessed with comforts, conveyances, good dresses 
and delicious food in its Dasha. In our view Venus may give success 
in trade, business, artistic field, pathology, chemistry, medicine, 
diplomacy, administration, political field etc. Saturn as the 4th 
lord strongly placed in Lagna may make the native bad, cunning 
and untruthful as said by Satyacharya. In our view a strong Satum 
as the 4th cum 5th lord in Libra Lagna will give results of two very 
auspicious Yogas viz Shasha Yoga and Maha Raja Yoga which 
may make the native a big ruler and a great person. Of course, in 
case of Scorpio Lagna 3rd cum 4th lord Satum in Lagna in an 
unfavourable sign may not give good results, rather it may give 
troubles and obstacles in its period. 


According to Satyacharya, only strong planets as the 4th lord 
in Lagna will give large scale auspicious results in their Dashas 
but if they are weak in strength, they may give good results only 
on asmall scale. Also if the lord of the 4th house be in the 6th, 
8th or 12th Amsa from the amsha of the ascendant lord in Navamsa 
Chart the native may have good results only on a small scale. If 
the concerned planets are powerless good results may be very 
little, say, it could be just quite nominal. Therefore, it is necessary 
to consider the strength of the planets also. 


In the 2nd house: 


If the lord of the 4th house is placed in the 2nd house along 
with the 2nd lord and also if the 4th lord is in its exaltation sign or 


42 : Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


own sign or friendly sign in Rashi Chart or Navamsa Chart, the 
native may get various kinds of happiness in Dasha of the 4th lord. 
His entire family may be happy during this period. The native may 
derive much happiness through his wife and lead a comfortable 
life. His words will be respected and valued. If there is an 
association of malefic planets with the 4th lord by aspect or 
conjuction, beneficial results may be less. If the 4th lord occupies 
6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the Amsa of the 2nd lord in Navamsa 
Chart, beneficial results may just trickle out in drops but never pour 
in torrents. 


As the 2nd and 4th houses denoted education, wealth, property 
and also gain of power and position, in our view a strong 4th lord 
in the 2nd house along with the 2nd lord may give spectacular or 
outstanding achievements in academic field. It may make one a 
leader of masses who may bewitch people by his oral skill. It may 
give one ruling power or high position in any walk of life. It may 
give earnings and savings from education or lands, mines, orchards, 
tanks, vehicles, houses, machines, workshops, factories, public 
offices, government jobs, high posts etc. 

It will not be out of place to mention here that barring Aries 
Lagna wherein 4th lord Moon gets exalted in the 2nd house in 
remaining eleven Lagnas 4th lord in the 2nd house will be either 
in unfriendly or neutral sign and, therefore in these eleven Lagnas 
the 4th lord in the 2nd house may give auspicious results only 
when it occupies exalted or own or friendly Navamsa and which 
at the same time should occupy favourable position from the 
Navamsa occcupied by the 2nd lord in Navamsa Chart. It means 
that in practice the 4th lord in the 2nd house will be 
able to give affluence in quite a few cases. 

But as the 2nd house falls in the 11th from the 4th 
house, 4th Iord in the 2nd house must be giving prosperity 
to the 4th house prospects in its Dasha or Bhukti. 


In the 3rd house : 


Aware of the fact that the 3rd house falls in the 12th of the 
4th house which may decrease the prospects of the 4th house, 
Satyacharya says that if the lord of the 4th house be posited in 
the 3rd house in combination with the lord of the 3rd house and 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 43 


also if Karaka planets of the 4th house viz Venus for vehicles and 
comforts, Mercury for mind and education, Moon for happiness 
and popularity and Mars for landed property, are strong, the native 
may have very little gainful results everywhere in Dasha or Bhukti 
of the 4th lord. If the lord of the 4th house be weak, the native 
may incur loss of lands, buildings, vehicles, position, popularity 
and happiness during Dasha of the 4th lord. A student in such 
Dasha may experience disruptions in his studies. Some 
times it may cause loss of mother or loss of patrimony also. ff, 
however, the lord of the 4th house be exalted or in its own sign or 
in Arohana or in Vargottama or in conjunction with benefics, 
results pertaining to education, vahanas, lands, happiness etc. 
may occur on a moderate or a small scale. 4th lord occupying an 
evil position from the 3rd lord in Navamsa Chart may further 
reduce good effects and increase bad effects. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the 4th house be in its own house, and also if 
otherwise be strongly placed, it may give very auspicious results in 
its Dasha or Bhukti in matters related to the 4th house, that is, 
education, landed property, vahanas, houses, comforts, happiness, 
capital formation, patrimony, popularity, mass-leadership, ruling 
power, maternal bliss etc. If it be Tara-Graha, effects of 
Mahapurusha Yoga may be further experienced. All the significations 
of the 4th house possible according to Desha-Kaala-Paatra may 
thrive to a great extent. If the Karaka planets of the 4th house be 
also strong, good results may be further strengthened. This may be 
true even when the lord of the 4th house be placed in Kendra or 
Trikona house with strength in Rashi Chart. The native may have 
higher education, gains and happiness through his vehicles, 
conveyances, lands, buildings, gardens, wells and mother. If the 
lord of the 4th house be weak, the native may have lesser gains or 
even loss of aforesaid matters in Dasha or Bhukti of the 4th lord. If 
the lord of the 4th house be also the lord of an evil house, it may 
give mixed results as in case of Scorpio Lagna. Benefic or malefic 
nature of the lords of Navamsa and Trimshamsa occupied by the 
4th lord may also influence the course of results in our view. 
According to Satyacharya, lords of Navamsa and Trimshamsa 
may give results in their Bhuktis in Dasha of the 4th lord. 


44 Advanced Study of Vimshotiari Dasha 
In the 5th house : 


If the 4th lord be in the 5th house in conjunction with the 5th 
lord or if these planets have interchanged their houses, that is, if 
the 4th lord be in the 5th house and the 5th lord be in the 4th 
house, Dasha or Bhukti of the 4th lord may give hightly fortunate 
results. The native may have patronage of the rulers or higher 
echelons. He may have abundance of corn and cattle in his house 
or he may have abundance of comforts in his house. He may 
hold some post of authority and power in the government and 
may also achieve good reputation. He may earn wealth through 
education, lands, buildings, vehicles, conveyances etc. in the native 
place of his father. If the 5th lord be strong, the native may be 
fortunate endowed with prosperous children. If the 5th lord be 
weak, the native may be otherwise poor but happy in his father’s 
house. If the 4th lord is very strong and also if Vahana Karaka 

‘Venus is strong, the native may be provided with a V.I.P. 
conveyance. Ifthe 4th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th position 
from the 5th lord in Navamsa Chart there may be set-back to 
aforesaid gains. If both the 4th and 5th lords be weak, the native 
may have no fortune or royal favour or vehicles during the Dasha 
of the 4th lord. His efforts for ascendancy of power may fail. If 
already in power, he may lose it or get dishonoured. 


In the 6th house : 


If the lord of the 4th house be pasited in the 6th house in 
conjunction with the 6th lord and if the significator be also strong 
the native’s mother may be happy in case Karaka Moon.be strong; 
income from lands and houses may increase, if Karaka Mars be 
strong; he may have good education and professional skill if 
Karaka Mercury be strong; he may have comforts and good 
conveyances if Karaka Venus be strong; his maternal uncles may 
have much happiness during Dasha of the 4th lord. If these planets 
be weak, the results may be just contrary ones such as the native 
may have a fall from vahana, his mother may become unhealthy; 
his cattle etc. may be sold away; there may be litigation about 
lands and interruption in education etc. If the 4th lord is in the 
6th, 8th or 12th from the 6th lord in Navamsa Chart, these bad 
effects will be on a small scale. All these things may be predicted 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 45 


intelligently keeping in mind various other guidelines. If the lord 
of the 4th house is in the 6th house with an Ashubha Yoga and 
Karaka Mars is devoid of strength and aspected by the 6th or 8th 
or 12th lord Dasa or Bhukti of the 4th lord may give most 
unfortunate results. The native may not thrive in his business or 
profession. His landed property may decline. If Karaka Venus be 
devoid of strength and be afflicted, the native may lose his 
conveyances and milch cattle or he may sustain injuries by falling 
from vehicle. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 4th house be placed in the 7th house along 
with the lord of the 7th house, the native during the Dasha of the 
4th lord may have happiness and comforts in some foreign place 
or at far-off places only if the Karaka planets are powerful, 
otherwise the native may die at far-away places. If, however, the 
4th lord be in th 6th, 8th or 12 from the 7th lord in Navamsa 
Chart, there may be no such death. If the lord of the 4th house be 
in the 7th house with a Shubha Yoga the native may be very lucky 
during Dasha of the 4th lord. He may get much income from the 
sources indicated by the 4th house. If there be an Ashubha Yoga 
it may cause death of his mother or harm to his conveyances 
during journey. Shubha Yoga may give wealth and property from 
the side of wife too. 


In the 8th house : 


If the lord of the 4th house be posited in the 8th house along 
with the lord of the 8th house, the native may experience loss of 
or damage to lands, houses, vahanas and milch cattle; his mother 
may fall sick. He may have interruptions in education and his 
house etc. may be subject to encumbrances. If, however, the 4th 
lord be in the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsa from the 8th lord in Navamsa 
Chart, these effects could be on a small scale only. All these effects 
are to be predicted in Dasha or Bhukti of the 4th lord in the 8th 
house. If the 4th lord be in the 8th house with a Shubha Yoga, the 
native may lose a major portion of his land and only a small portion 
of it will be left for his upkeep. He may lead a poor life. If there is 
an Ashubha Yoga, results may be reverse. 


46 Advanced Study of Virnshotiari Dasha 


In the 9th house : 


If the lord of the 4th house be posited in the 9th house in 
conjunction with the lord of the 9th house and if Karaka planets 
of the 4th house are also strong, and when the time for realisation 
approaches the 4th lord in its Dasha may give results accordingly. 
If Karaka Venus is very strong, the native may enjoy comforts of 
vahanas, conveyances, milch cattle etc. If Karaka Mars is very 
strong, the native may have gains from lands and buildings. If 
Mercury is very strong, one may have gains from education, trade 
or expertise. If the Moon is very powerful, the native may get his 
mother’s wealth and property or patrimony. Karakas will give 
their results in Dasha or Bhukti of the 4th lord. If the lords of the 
4th and the 9th houses are strong in Kendra or Trikona in Navamsa 
Chart, good results on a greater scale are possible. If the lord of 
the 4th house occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th from the lord of the 
9th house in Navamsa Chart or if both the 4th and 9th lords be 
weak, the results may be on a very small scale. 


Occupation of a trine by a Kendra-lord is upheld but as the 
9th house falls in the evil 6th from the 4th house. The 4th lord in 
the 9th house will be in neutral signs in case of Pisces, Aries and 
Gemini Lagnas and in inimical signs in case of Taurus, Virgo, 
Scorpio and Capricorn Lagnas. Therefore, the 4th lord in the 9th 
house in case of four Lagnas viz. Taurus, Virgo, Scorpio and 
Capricorn may not give effective good results and in case of 
Pisces, Aries & Gemini Lagnas the results may be moderately 
good. 4th lord in the 9th house in Leo and Aquarius Lagnas will 
be in own signs and as such it must give good results on a proper 
scale. 4th lord in the 9th house may be in a friendly sign in Libra 
and Sagittarius Lagnas and as such it may also give good results. 
as 4th lord in the 9th house may be exalted in case of Cancer 
Lagna it may give the best results. 


In case of Cancer, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Aquarius 
Lagnas 4th lord in the 9th house must give affluence and 
rise in career in its own Dasha or Bhukti if possible. If 
Dasha of the 4th lord be not possible at the relevant age then the 
planets associated with the 4th lord by conjunction or aspect may 
give such results in their periods. Even the planets occupying the 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 47 
star ruled over by the 4th lord may give such results in their periods. 


In the 10th house: 


If the lord of the 4th house be placed in the 10 house along 
with the lord of the 10th house, immense good results may follow 
in Dasha or Bhukti of ihe 4th lord. The native may hold a high 
post. If there be further association or aspects of benefic planets, 
the native may hold a very high post. He may be a ruler, a minister 
or some high office bearer. He may be respected and held in high 
esteem. If the karaka planets are strong, the native may have 
prospering vahanas, lands, houses, wealth, education etc. as the 
case may be. Good results will occur in Dasha or Bhuktis of the 
4th lord. If the strength of the 4th lord is a little less, the effects 
also will be a little less. If Jupiter as the 4th lord be strongly placed 
in the 10th house, the native may get promotions and gains in his 
employment or business. He may have large gains of wealth 
through trade if the 4th lord be the ruler of the 11th house also. 
This is possible only in case of Cancer and Capricorn Lagnas. In 
case of Cancer Lagna, Venus is held to be a functional malefic, 
as the 4th lord Venus suffers from Kendradhipatya Dosha. The 
11th lord Venus is a Badhaka for Chara Lagna Cancer. For 
Capricom Lagna which is a Chara Lagna 4th cum 111th lord is a 
Badhaka. As such, we cannot expect unobstructed gains from 
the 4th lord in these two lagnas. If the concerned planets be weak 
in strength, good results are possible only on a small scale. If the 
4th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th place from the 10th lord in 
Navamsa Chart, there may not be possibility of good results even 
on a very small scale. 

If, however, the 4th lord joins or is aspected by the lord or is 
aspected by the lord of the 5th or 9th or Lagna, Dasha or Bhuktis 
of 4th lord may confer Rajayoga, elevation in status and 
occupational promotions on the native. 


In the 11th house : 

If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 11th house along 
with the 11th lord, the native may have large gains of wealth in 
' Dasha or Bhuktis of the 4th lord without any effort. He may be 
i happy and comfortable. If there be an association of benefics with 


48 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


the 4th lord, gains may be on a larger scale. The gains will be 
through the things signified by the planets involved. lf the planets 
be weak, gains may be very little. If the lord of the 4th house be in 
the 6th, 8th or 12th from the 11th lord in Navamsa Chart and also 
if they are combined with or aspected by malefics, good results are 
not possible. The native may acquire wealth from his elder brother 
in Dasha or Bhukti of the 4th lord in some cases. 


In case of Aries Lagna 4th lord Moon in the 11th house and 
in case of Libra Lagna 4th lord Saturn in the 11th house may act 
as most detrimental to gains in their Dashas or Bhuktis. In case 
of Cancer Lagna 4th cum 11th Lord Venus and in case of 
Capricorn Lagna 4th cum 11th lord Mars in the 11th house will 
not act as deterrent for the simple reason that a planet in its own 
sign or navamsa gives good results in its Dasha or Bhukti. 


In the 12th house : 


If the lord of the 4th house is placed in the 12th house along 
with the 12th lord, generally bad results may occur in Dasha or 
Bhuktis of the 4th lord, but more particularly, if the karakas of the 
4th house namely, Moon, Mars, Mercury and Venus are weak. A 
weak Moon may cause ill-health to mother and unhappiness to the 
native. A weak Mars may cause harm to crops, fields, lands and 
houses. A weak Mercury may cause harm to education, technical 
know-how, trade and money. A weak Venus may cause harm to 
vahanas and comforts. If the lord of the 4th house be in the 6th, 
8th or 12th house from the 12th lord in Navamsa Chart, the native 
may have a little happiness and comforts. If the 4th lord is in 
exaltation or own house, the native may have happiness and 
comforts. In case of Taurus Lagna 4th lord Sun may be exalted in 
the 12th house and in case of Scorpio Lagna 4th lord Saturn may 
be exalted in the 12th house they may give comforts and happiness 
in their Dasha or Bhukti. 4th lord in the 12th house will never be in 
any of its own sign, though it can be in its own Navamsa. If the 4th 
lord be in conjunction with benefics in the 12th house, it may give 
good results in its Dasha or Bhuktis. Malefic conjunctions may 
give bad results in Dasha or Bhuktis of the 4th lord. Benefic 
conjunctions reduce troubles while malefic conjunctions aggravate 
troubles. The native may have sickness sometimes in the Dasha or 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 49 


Bhuktis of malefics owning 4th house placed in the 12th house. 


It may please be noted here that an afflicted 4th 
lord in the 12th hause may cause heart-ailments or fear 
of drowning in its Dasha or Bhuktis. A planet as the lord 
of a Bhava may give bad or weak results of such Bhava 
when placed in the 12th house. But signification or 
Karakatwa of a planet may go on increasing if it is placed 
in the 12th house. Malefics in the 6th house are said to be 
auspicious. Benefics in the 12th house are more welcome than 
malefics. Venus in the 12th house is held to be giving 
affluence in the same way as Mercury gives affluence in 
the 11th house. 


In general, if the 4th lord be in a Kendra or a Kona or in its 
own sign or navamsa and be strong in Shad Bala, its significations 
i.e. happiness, education, conveyances, lands, houses, agriculture, 
ruling power and leadership may thrive well. The native 
may dig wells, construct new houses, plant trees and his agriculture 
may flourish. In modern context the native may build 
factories and workshops. He may be a builder or he may 
hold a transport agency. Dealers in lands and praperties 
or vehicles are also governed by the 4th lard today. 
Strength of karaka planets along with that of the 4th lord be properly 
judged to arrive at a better conclusion. If the 4th lord also rules 
over some evil house, there may be a mixture of both good and bad 
results as in case of Scorpio Lagna. The position of the planet in 
Navamsa and Trimsamsa Charts is also to be considered. The 
significations of the planets which rule the benefic Navamsas and 
Trimsamsas in which the lord of the 4th house is situated should be 
considered and these may also occur during the period of the lord 
of the 4th house. 


Satyacharya said that results of the Dasha of the lord of the 
fourth house should be first determined and then the results of 
Bhuktis should be predicted keeping in mind the nature, 
significations and lordships of the planets that are in combination 
with or that aspect the lord of the 4th house and sub-lords. Sub- 
lords placed in evil houses from Dasha-lord in Rashi Chart and 
Navamsa Chart may give bad results too. 

eee 


@) — CHAPTER-VII 


EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 
LORD OF THE 5TH HOUSE IN 
VARIOUS HOUSES 


Trine houses (1st, 5th and 9th) are held to be the three main 
pillars of a horoscope. If the 6th, 8th and 12th houses are 
blamed for their notoriety, Ist, 5th and 9th houses are 
esteemed as bestowers of good luck and fortunate results. 


In the 1st house : 


If the lord of the 5th house be posited in the 1st house along 
with the lord of the ascendant and also if it is associated with a 
benefic planet by conjunction or aspect, the native may become 
a great leader during the Dasha of the lord of the 5th house. He 
may become the leading personage of his community and family, 
may be blessed with the acquisition of wealth, conveyances etc. 
He may have a few number of children. He may be adopted 
during his young age in some cases. Connection with benefics 
may make the native a friend of noble men and high-ups and he 
may be benefitted from them. He may have divine grace, favour 
of rulers or superiors and success in his undertakings. He may 
amass wealth and his worship of Devatas may yield good and 
fruitful results. If the lord of the 5th occupies the 6th, 8th or the 
12th from the ascendant-lord in Navamsa Chart and also if it be 
weak, good results may get quite feeble. He may not be adopted. 
He may not become a great man or his friends may be ordinary 
noble men. If, however, the 5th lord be associated with a benefic 
planet, the native may have the favour of rulers and high-ups. If 
there be present Sanyasa Yoga in the horoscope, the native may 
be the head of a Mutt having many disciples who may obey him 
and please him with their presents. If, however, the lord of the 5th 
house be devoid of strength, his many disciples will be low and 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 51 


ordinary and they may offer only ordinary type of presents, that 
too, very few in numbers. 


Parashar treated the 5th lord as a bestower of divine favour, 
good luck, royal favour, sudden wealth and windfall gains. Dasha 
or Bhukti of strong 5th lord placed in Lagna may confer ail such 
good results. Dasha or Bhukti of strong Sth lord may confer 
progenic happiness. If capable, the native may earn name and 
fame as author of books or as a counsellor. Jupiter as the 5th lord 
in Lagna is the best divine boon as in case of Leo and Scorpio 
Lagnas. If the Sun as the 5th lord occupies Lagna, one must 
worship the Sun and Lord Shiva for desired success. If the Moon 
as the 5th lord occupies Lagna, one must worship Shiva and 
Parvati for success. If Mars as the 5th lord occupies Lagna, one 
must worship Skanda, Durga and Hanuman for success. If 
Mercury as the 5th lord joins Lagna, worship of Saraswati and 
Vishnu is advised for success. lf Jupiter as the 5th lord joins 
Lagna, worship of Shiva and Vishnu may give success. If Venus 
as the 5th lord joins Lagna, worship of Ganesh and Lakshmi or 
Shiva and Durga may give success. lf Saturn as the 5th lord joins 
Lagna, worship of Kali, Rudra and Hanuman may give the desired 
success. If 5th lord joins Ketu, Ganesha must be worshipped. If 
Rahu joins 5th lord Durga is to be worshipped. If 5th lord be in 
the Sth same advice applicable. 


In the 2nd house : 


If the lord of the 5th house be placed in the 2nd house along 
with the lord of the 2nd house and also if the 5th lord be in its 
exalted, own or friendly amsa, the native may have a happy and 
comfortable family life and his word will also be valued and 
respected in Dasha of the lord of the 5th house. His sayings may 
also come true by divine grace. If lord of the 5th house be weak 
in Shad Bala or if it be afflicted by malefics or if the 5th lord be 
placed in the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsas from the 2nd lord in Navamsa 
Chart, good results may be very little. 


5th lord in the 2nd house may give academic distinctions. It 
may make one very rich suddenly. It may endow one with ruling 
powers. For Taurus and Scorpio Lagnas 2nd cum 5th lords 
Mercury and Jupiter respectively may give quite auspicious results 


52 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


in their Dashas when placed in the 2nd house. 


In the 3rd house : 


If the lord of the 5th house be placed in the 3rd house along 
with the lord of the 3rd house, the native may have a child during 
the Dasha and Bhukti of the 5th lord. His brother may become 
faraous and he himself may become a very great man during the 
Dasha of the 5th lord if it begins at the appropriate age. He may 
be courageous and free from mental worries. He may have good 
health and a strong body. If the 5th lord be weak in strength or if 
the 5th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th position from the 3rd 
lord in Navamsa Chart aforesaid good results may not occur or 
they may be very feeble and the native may not enjoy good health 
and his body may become weak, 


As the 3rd house is in the 11th from the 5th house, normally 5th 
lord in the 3rd house in its Dasha or Bhukti must be enhancing 
prospects of the 5th house. If a natural malefic owns the 5th house, 
occupation of the 3rd house by such a malefic must give quite 
beneficial results. For Libra lagna 5th lord Saturn in the 3rd houise 
and Jupiter in the 9th house may make Dasha or Bhukti of 5th lord 
Saturn as the most fortunate one. Aspect of Jupiter on the 5th 
house and 5th lord indicates divine favour of the first order. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the Sth house be placed in the 4th house along 
with the 4th lord, it is very auspicious tantamount to Raja Yoga. 
The native may enjoy comforts and happiness, may have the 
pleasure of vahanas, may have royal favours and gain of high 
post and position in Dasha or Bhuktis of the 5th lord. If the 5th 
lord be afflicted or weak in the 4th house, the native may lose 
some of his children in Dasha of the 5th lord as the 4th house falls 
in the 12th of the 5th house also. In some cases the native may go 
to the house of some dignitary as a tutor or as a counsellor or the 
native may receive lands, houses or vehicles through a noble 
person. In modern context, we may say that housing and 
conveyance etc faclities accorded to government officials, officials 
of public and private sectors, Ministers, M.Ps. M.L.As, Speakers, 
etc will come under its purview. If, however, the 5th lord be weak, 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 53 


good results may occur only to a small extent. If the lord of the 5th 
house occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th Amsas from the Amsa occupied 
by the 4th lord in the Navamsa Chart, even these good resuslts 
may not occur. Satyacharya clarifies that association of 
the lord of the 5th house with many benefics in the 4th 
house may even make the native a great ruler. Much 
depends on the strength of the lord of the 5th house. Any other 
Raja Yoga may enhance the good results. The position of Dasha- 
lord (5th lord) and sub-lords in Gochara from natal position may 
play its role on shaping the actual results. As in case of all Lagnas 
barring Pisces and Aries, 5th lord may also own another house, 
impact of other lordship has also to be taken note of while analysing 
Dasha-effects of the lord of the 5th house. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord be posited in his own house, that is in the 5th 
house in his own oy exalted Navamsa with strength the native will 
be blessed with many children or his children may prosper during 
Dasha of the 5th lord. If there is an association of benefics by 
conjunction or aspect to the 5th lord, the native may be a lord or 
a ruler during the Dasha of the 5th lord or during the Dasha of the 
planet joining the 5th lord or the planet aspected by the 5th lord. 
If, however, the 5th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th position 
from lagna or Lagnesh in Navamsa Chart, the native’s children 
may become his enemies during Dasha of the 5th lord. In matters 
of wealth, good luck, royal favour and divine grace also such Sth 
lord ill-placed in Navamsa Chart may not give good results upto 
expectations. Afflicted 5th lord may also give disappointing results. 
A strong 5th lord well-placed in Navamsa Chart on the other hand 
may give quite favourable results in its Dasha. Methods of divine 
worship as suggested in case of 5th lord in Lagna equally apply to 
5th lord in 5th house. 


In the 6th house : 

if the lord of the 5th house be posited in the 6th house along 
with the 6th lord, the native’s matemal uncle may be very prosperous 
during Dasha of such 5th lord. The native will also be happy and 


prosperous. He will be famous. He may have royal favour or 
gains from the government. As the 6th house rules over 


54 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Services and is the 9th from the 10th house, 5th lord in 
the 6th house may confer some high government post 
too in its Dasha though it is unfavourable for progenic 
bliss in our view. lf the lord of the 5th house occupies the 6th, 
8th or 12th position from the 6th lord in Navamsa Chart, benefic 
results may be destroyed and bad results may ensue. Disfavour or 
displeasure of the government is not ruled out. As the 5th house 
rules over brain, belly and some portion of heart also and 
also as the 6th house rules over diseases a weak or afflicted 
5th lord in its Dasha in our view may cause something 
wrong with brain or belly or heart. If the 5th lord be strong 
and has a Shubha Yoga, it will give mostly good results in its Dasha. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 5th house be posited in the 7th 
house along with the 7th lord and some benefic the 
native’s son or the native himself may go to a foreign 
land or to a distant land during the Dasha of the 5th 
lord. The native may acquire wealth through his son during the 
Dasha of the 5th lord. As the 5th lord rules over intellect, 
counselling, royal pleasure, divine and royal favour and 
speculation also, in our view the native may earn wealth through 
these sources also. During Dasha of the aforesaid 5th lord father- 
in-law of the native in some cases may attain dignity and power, 
a marriage may take place in the native’s family, the native’s son 
may pass through a beneficial ceremony and the native may be 
endowed with divine grace and favour of the government. 5th 
lord in the 7th house in our view may give rise in fortune 
through trade and business of speculative nature. lf the 
lord of the 5th house be weak and be in the same Amsa in Navamsa 
Chakara, there may be sickness or danger to his children. If, 
however, the 5th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th from the 7th 
lord in Navamsa Chart, aforesaid harm to children may not occur 
in Dasha of the 5th lord, according to Satyacharya. 


In the 8th house : 


If the lord of the 5th occupies the 8th house along with the lord 
of the 8th house, the native’s children may have danger to their 
lives, the native may beget children who may die soon, and the 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 55 


native may incur displeasure of rulers, high-ups and Devatas. He 
may incur enmity with elders, father and Ishta Devata. His worship 
may go in vain. His Mantras may be ineffective. Dasha of the 5th 
lord in the 8th house will generally give unfortunate results. If the 
lord of the 5th house be weak and associated with malefics, 
aforesaid bad effects may not happen according to Satyacharya. 
If the 5th lord occupies 6th, 8th or 12th from the 8th lord in Navamsa 
Chart or if it joins some benefic, evil results may be minimised. 


In our view 5th lord in the 8th house may give success 
in occult sciences or in scientific research or in 
excavation work or in Yogic meditations though one has 
to pass through various rigours to get such success. 


In the 9th house : 


If the lord of the 5th house is posited in the 9th house along 
with the 9th lord, Dasha of the 5th lord may prove to be very 
auspicious for the native and his father. The native may derive 
happiness and comforts in his youth through his father and his 
father’s wealth may increase. During the Dasha of the lord 
of the 5th house the native may rise to a position of 
considerable power and authority. Even his father will be 
very fortunate by winning the favour of rulers and high echelons. 
The native may eam wealth through the help of a magnate that 
is, arich or eminent person. He may finally acquire and enjoy 
very much wealth through his sons. Both 5th and 9th houses 
and their lords represent ruling power, higher status, 
good luck, sudden gain of wealth, progenic happiness 
etc. Accordingly, Dasha of the 5th lord placed in the 9th house 
may give outstanding results in these fields. As the Sth lord 
indicates divine grace and the 9th house denotes Dharma a 
strong 5th lord in the 9th house may confer a fortune by 
grace of God. If the lord of the 5th house be the Sun or if the 5th 
lord be in Sun’s sign the native may be working as a clerk in some 
temple. If the lord of the 5th house be the Moon or if it be in the 
Moon's Rashi, the native may be a treasurer. If it be Mars or in 
sign of Mars, the native may have rise in his fortune or he may get 
wealth through the blessings of his village-deity; If it be Mercury 
or in sign of Mercury, the native may be an official in a court of 


56 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


law. If it be Jupiter or in the sign of Jupiter, the native may be 
working in a charitable institution. If it be Venus or in a sign of 
Venus, the native may earn income through dancing girls etc. If 
it be Saturn or in a sign of Saturn, the native may be an 
authority imposing or inflicting punishments. Sources of 
income through the planets have undergone vast changes when 
compared to past ages. For example, the Sun refers to the 
government employment of all kinds. Moon and Venus represent 
artistic pursuits, foreign connections, government connections, 
chemical etc. The Sun represents medical science, managerial 
posts too. Jupiter represents legal posts, political posts, 
administrative posts, Banking, Accounts, Audits, Judiciary etc. 
Mercury and Venus represent commerce and trade. Mars 
represents Police, Military, Arms, Medicine, Surgery, Butchery, 
Builders etc. Saturn represents Magistracy, Trade-union, 
Democracy Labour-force etc. 


If the lord of the 5th house is powerless, good results may not 
occur, If the 5th lord be posited in the 6th, 8th or 12th from the 
9th lord in Navamsa Chart, the native may have good results but 
only on a small scale. 


In the 10 house : 


If the lord of the 5th house be posited in the 10th house along 
with the lord of the 10th house it constitutes a powerful Raja Yoga. 
Dasa of the 5th lord or Bhuktis of the 5th lord may give very 

“auspicious results to the native. It may confer ruling power or power 
and position in one’s occupation. If the 5th lord is exalted in the 
10th house as in case of Gemini Lagna or if it is Vargottama, the 
native or his son may be a big ruler or a big man. Even his father 
may be fortunate by winning the favour of rulers or high echelons 
of society. In some cases the native may acquire wealth through a 
rich or an eminent person or through his sons. If, however, Lagnesh 
may be weak, the native may be an ascetic who may head a MUTT. 
If Lagnesh in such a yoga is posited in the 11th house and is strong 
there, the native may become a rich boss through trade. If the lord 
of the 2nd house be in deep exaltation his profits may be immense 
through trade or he may have a royal status. If the lord of the 2nd 
house be in a watery sign or in a moveable sign, the native may 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 57 


amass wealth through sea-trade or foreign exchange. Articles of 
trade may be determined by the nature of the planets and the articles 
that they rule over. In the case of an appointment or a post the 
nature of the planets involved and of the planets that are in 
association with them may influence the results. If the 10th house 
is strong the native may be (1) Ruler (2) High official or (3) a trader 
& businessman or (4) a big farmer or (5) a big leader. 10th lord, 
5th lord and their associates and also planets aspecting 
them may determine profession, post and position of the 
native. If the Sth lord be weak or if it occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th 
position from the 10th lord in Navamsa Chart, good results may be 
considerably reduced. 


In the 11th house : 


If the lord of the 5th house be placed in the 11th house along 
with the lord of the 11th house, the native may acquire wealth 
through his son or a noble or his brother. The caste or sex of the 
noble has to be determined from the nature of the 5th lord. Jf the 
5th lord be Jupiter, the noble will be a Brahmin or a scholarly 
person; if it is Venus, the noble may be a female or a businessman 
or an artist: if it is the Sun, the noble may be a ruler or a Kshatriya; 
if it is Mercury, the noble may be a trader or a businessman; if it is 
Mars, the noble may be a ruler or a warrior or a land-owner,; if it 
is the Moon, the noble may be a trader or a female; if it is Saturn, 
the noble may be a Sudra or a Mlechcha or a Chandala or a 
public leader. If the 5th Jord or the 11th lord owns malefic houses, 
they may also cause troubles in Dasha and Bhuktis of the 5th 
lord. Association with benefics may augment auspicious results 
and ameliorate evil results. Reverse will be the case by association 
with malefics. If the lord of the 5th house occupies the 6th, 8th or 
12th from the lord of the 11th house in Navamsa Chart, good 
results may be lowered down. 


In the 12th house : 

If the 5th lord be posited in the 12th house along with the 
12th lord, indications of the 5th house may suffer in Dasha or 
Bhuktis of the 5th lord. The 5th house indicates children, intellect, 
mind, divine favour, royal favour, heart, belly etc. Thus, during 
the period of the 5th lord the native may suffer from mental 


58 Advanced Study of Vimnshoitari Dasha 


disturbance or mental disorder or heart trouble or bowel troubles 
or bileous troubles or jaundice or liver-troubles. His children may 
be sick or may have other troubles. He may incur displeasure of 
nobles and rulers. He may lose his Mantra-power and divine 
favour too. He may incur losses in any kind of speculative activity. 
It may be a bad and gloomy period for the native. 


If there is an association of a benefic planet, the native may 
pursue philosophical studies and be detached from worldly 
pursuits. He may perform charitable deeds and may spend his 
money for good purposes. Association of malefics may weaken 
his power of reasoning and prompt him to waste his money in 
bad ways. If the ascendant lord be weak, the native will be 
wandering aimlessly in foreign lands without any gains. A strong 
5th lord with Shubha Yoga in the 12th house accompanied by a 
strong Ist lord in the horoscope may give rise in fortune in distant 
land or in foreign country in Dasha or Bhukti or the 5th lord. 


If the 5th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th from the 12th 
lord in Navamsa Chart, benefic results may be weakened and evil 
results may be more prominent. 


It will not be out of place to mention here that the 5th lord is 
upheld so auspicious if its other lordships is not so detrimental. 
In case of Pisces Lagna 5th lord Moon and in case of Aries Lagna 
5th lord Sun do not own any otner house. Hence they are quite 
beneficial. In case of Taurus Lagna, 5th cum 2nd lord Mercury 
and in case of Scorpio Lagna 2nd cum 5th lord Jupiter are also 
quite beneficial. In case of Cancer Lagna 5th cum 10th lord Mars 
and in case of Libra Lagna 4th cum 5th lord Saturn are Yogakaraka 
and highly auspicuous. In case of Capricorn Lagna 5th cum 10th 
lord Venus may not be so auspicious because of Kendradhipatya 
Dosha but as Venus owns a trine, Kendradhipatya Dosha of Venus 
may be quite negligible. In case of Leo Lagna 5th cum 8th lord 
Jupiter and in case of Aquarius Lagna 5th cum 8th lord Mercury 
may have little stigma of 8th lordship as they own a trine. In case 
of Gemini Lagna 5th cum 12th lord Venus and in case of 
Sagittarius Lagna 5th cum 12th lord Mars give in main the results 
of the 5th lordship. It is said that the 12th lord and the 2nd 
lord are neutrals and they give the results of the lord of 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 59 


their other house which is here the auspicuous 5th house. 
Only in case of Virgo Lagna 5th cum 6th lord Saturn is half good 
and half bad. Not only trine lordship as a rule gives auspicious 
results but also that it makes no distinction between natural 
benefics and natural malefics. Benefics or malefics as the 5th 
lord are equally good. 


5th lord not only confers divine favour but as the lord of the 
12th from the 6th house it is also capable of warding off diseases, 
and enemies. By resort to worship of appropriate Devatas and 
by Siddhis of Mantras meant for the 5th lord and also by use of 
gems meant for the 5th lord, we may be able to get divine favour 
and prosperity on the one hand and freedom from diseases and 
enemies on the other hand. 


While discussing effects of the 5th lord in Lagna | have already 
suggested the specific Devatas to be worshipped as per 5th lordship 
for each Lagna. For Mantra-Siddhi readers must consult a 
competent Guru. As regards use of gems readers are advised to 
use gems meant for the 5th lord and the Ist lord, both for better 
achievements as follows : 


Gem for 5th lord 


Ruby 


Gem for 1st lord 


1. Aries Red Coral 


2. Taurus Green Emerald Diamond or white Pukhraj 
3. Gemini Diamond or Green Emerald 
White Pukhraj 
4, Cancer Red Coral White Pearl 
5. Leo Yellow Topaz Ruby 
6. Virgo Phiroza Green Emerald 
7. Libra Blue Stone Diamond or White Pokharaj 
8. Scorpio Yellow Topaz Red Coral 


9. Sagittarius | Red Coral 
10. Capricorn] Diamond 
11. Aquarius | Green Emerald 
12. Pisces White Pearl 


Yellow Topaz 
Phiroza 

Lily 

| Yellow Topaz. 


CHAPTER-VII €2 


EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 
6TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES 


In the Ist house : 


If the lord of the 6th house is posited in Lagna along with 
Lagnesh, the native may suffer from diseases or may have 
deformities in body or sores in his mouth and also trouble from 
rulers in Dasha of the 6th lord. If Rahu is in conjunction with the 
6th lord, the native may have losses and troubles through thieves, 
ruffians and the like. If the Sun and the Moon be devoid of power, 
the native may suffer from poverty. If the ascendant lord be in 
conjunction with the 6th lord, 8th lord and 12th lord the native 
may suffer from some very serious disease. If the ascendant lord 
be placed very near the ascendant or Lagna Navamsa, Dasha of 
the 6th lord may bring troubles from foes, diseases and poverty. 
These difficulties may go on increasing and there will be no relief 
from troubles. If the lord of the 6th house be placed in the 6th, 
8th or 12th from Lagnesh in Navamsa Chart and also if Lagnesh 
be in his own Navamsa along with benefics in Navamsa Chart, 
evil results may be moderated to a great extent. 


It, however, will not be out of place to mention here that 
Satyacharya himself elsewhere says that the 6th lord in Lagna 
may make the native hold some brave post like the post of a 
commander-in-chief. He may have much power and authority 
and may be employed in the government He may be incharge of 
Jails. Good results may follow only when there is Shubha Yoga 
or there is complete absence of malefic or Ashubha Yoga. But if 
there be a malefic Yoga, evil results such as sufferance from 
diseases, enemies etc. may follow. It means that Dasha of the 
6th lord in Lagna with Subha Yoga will give good results 
while Dasha of the 6th lord in Lagna with Malefic Yoga 
will give bad results. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 61 


In the 2nd house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be placed in the 2nd house along 
with the lord of the 2nd house, significations of the 2nd house may 
take an adverse tum, quarrels in the family, misunderstandings with 
family members, untimely meals, loss of wealth through the actions 
of enemies or hurdles in way of saving money, tooth-ache or mouth- 
trouble, eye-irouble, ulcers, wounds etc. may be the possible results 
in Dasha of the aforesaid 6th lord. Conjunction with and aspect of 
benefic planets on the 6th lord may certainly reduce the evil results 
and may also give some comforts and happiness. If the 6th lord be 
under both benefic and malefic influences, mixed results are possible. 
According to Satyacharya, if the 6th lord be in combination with 
malefics, the results will always be good. Satyacharya elsewhere 
himself says that 6th lord along with malefic in the 2nd house may 
cause early loss of wife. The native may not get timely meal and he 
may suffer from poverty. As far as we know an afflicted 6th 
lord in an auspicious house like the 2nd house can never 
give good results. Rather, it may badly damage the good 
prospects of the 2nd house. If the 6th lord be also 
combined with the Lagnesh, during sub-period of the 1st 
lord in major period of the 6th lord even death of the 
native may take place and the native may experience evil 
results during his boyhood. 


In the 3rd house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be placed in the 3rd house along 
with the lord of the 3rd house, the native’s brothers may become 
his enemies; the native may suffer from ear-diseases or diseases 
in hands and legs: he may incur expenes on account of enemies 
and diseases and he may at times be dejected or disheartened 
during Dasha of the 6th lord. If the 6th lord be associated with 
benefics, the native may have a mixture of both good and bad 
results. If the 6th lord be placed in the 8th, 12th or 6th in Navamsa 
Chart, results may be of mixed nature. If the 6th lord occupies a 
Kendra or a Trikona Amsa, it may give bad results. If Karaka for 
the 3rd house, that is, Mars be weak, the native’s brother may 
have sickness. If the 6th lord be combined with some Maraka 
planet, 6th lord may cause death during its Dasha in some cases. 


62 Aavancea dtudy of Vimshottari Dasha 


As far as we understand 6th cum Ist lord Mars in the 
3rd house in its exaltation in its Dasha or Bhukti may 
give one a job connected with control of diseases or 
control of crime in case of Scorpio Lagna. 6th cum 9th 
lord Jupiter in the 3rd house in case of Cancer Lagna may 
make one have his fortune through control of diseases or 
control of crime. In case of Capricorn Lagna 6th cum 9th 
lord Mercury in the 3rd house in conjunction with the 3rd 
lord may make one a famous doctor or a lawyer or a judge. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 4th house and 
also if Rahu be conjoined with the Moon, Dasha of the 6th lord 
may give either bad health or bad name to the native’s mother. 
As far as we understand the 6th lord in the aforesaid condition 
may cause fear of mental aberration or of defame or of drowning 
or of dropsy to the native in its Dasha. If other karaka of the 4th 
house, that is, Mars is weak, his lands will be misappropriated or 
taken away by his enemies during the Dasha of the 6th lord. If 
karaka Mercury be weak, Dasha of the 6th lord may cause hurdles 
or interruptions to the native’s education. If Venus be weak Dasha 
of the 6th lord may cause troubles through vehicles and 
conveyances to the native. [If the lord of the 4th house be strong 
and the native may be a women, Dasha of the 6th lord placed in 
the 4th house along with the 4th lord may cause her widowhood. 
As far as we understand, only Mars as the 6th lord in 
inimical sign having full aspect on the 7th house may 
cause such widowhood. As in case of Gemini or Scorpio 
Lagnas combination with benefics may reduce the evil results. 
Combination with malefics may cause losses to his cattle, crops, 
lands, vehicles and property of any kind. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be placed in the 5th house along 
with the 5th lord, some men of high echelons may become his 
enemies or his sons or his father may be inimically disposed 
towards him. His children may become sick. Worship and 
aust-ities performed by the native will be interrupted due to 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 63 


impediments. There may be unnecessary quarrels with others. 
His sons may meet with obstacles in their careers. We understand 
that it may cause enmity with high officials, loss through 
speculations and also divine displeasure. All these evil results 
may occur in Dasha of the 6th or 5th lord. Conjunction of malefic 
planets with the 6th lord may cause loss of children or 
childlessness. Conjunction with benefics may ward off much of 
the evil results or they may be of mixed nature. If the 6th lord be 
posited in the 6th, 8th or 12th house from lagna or the 5th lord in 
Navamsa Chart, the results concerning the 5th house may be poor. 


In the 6th house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be placed in the 6th house and also 
if it be combined with or aspected by benefics, Dasha or Bhukti of 
the 6th lord may give good results. In the beginning of the period, 
results will be those indicated by the planets conjoining or aspecting 
the 6th lord. As a result of benefic influences the native may enjoy 
comforts and happiness during this period. He may overcome his 
enemies and there may be success in his undertakings. Income 
from his landed property or his service or job may increase. He 
may wear good dresses and acquire conveyances. If the lord of 
the 6th house be weak, good results may be very little. If the lord of 
the 6th house be in conjunction with the lord of the 8th or 12th 
house the native may enjoy comforts and happiness throughout 
the period of the 6th lord (due to Vipareet Raja Yoga). If the 6th 
lord occupies a Kendra or a Trikona in Navamsa Chart, the native 
may be troubled by enemies. It seems, Satyacharya considered 
that the 6th lord occupying the 6th, 8th or 12th house in Navamsa 
Chart would only give good results. Satyacharya said that the 
native might experience unfavourable results during the sub-periods 
of the planets joining the 6th lord. 


Satyacharya in a way poohpoohed the theory that a natural 
or functional benefic joining a natural or functional malefic may 
make the malefic planet give good results in its Dasha or Bhukti 
but Dasha or Bhukti of joining benefic planet will itself give bad 
results. So far as malefics are concerned, functional malefics 6th, 
8th and 12th houses may give auspicious results but as far as 
natural malefics are concerned they can give auspicious results 


64 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


only in the 6th house and never in the 8th or the 12th house. If 
any other Trika lord or natural malefic joins the 6th lord it will 
give good results in its sub-periods but sub-periods of planets 
aspected by the 6th lord must give bad results in our view. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 7th house along 
with the 7th lord, it may cause harm to significations of the 7th 
house. His wife will not maintain always good health or she may 
fall sick or there may be quarrels, separations, misunderstandings 
with his wife or the native may himself fall sick in Dasha of the 6th 
lord. The native may have mixed experiences. He may sometimes 
have happiness while at other times he may have unhappiness. 
He may have enmity at his native place but may have relief from 
enemies at distant places or in foreign lands. There, however, may 
be interruptions to auspicious ceremonies and realisation of good 
results. If the ascendant lord is weak and is also combined with 
malefic planets, the native will be unhealthy; will have troubles from 
enemies, will incur displeasure; will receive blows; will contract 
debts; will sustain physical injuries, loss ot women etc. in Dasha or 
Bhuktis of the 6th lord. If the lord of the 6th house be in the 6th, 8th 
or 12th from the lord of the 7th house in Navamsa Chart the native 
may not have much troubles of the aforesaid kind such as 
misunderstanding with wife etc. If the lords of the 6th and 7th 
houses are joined by the lord of the 2nd house in the 7th house, it 
may even bring about the death of the native in Dasha or Bhukti of 
the 6th lord. If the Karaka of the 7th house, that is, Venus be placed 
in Kendra or Trikona in Navamsa Chart along with Rahu, native’s 
wife may be victim of slander and scorn. lf Karaka Venus be weak 
and placed in common or dual sign, the native may marry a second 
wife due to misunderstandings with his first wife. If Karaka Venus 
be posited in Rashi of Mars or Satum and be also associated with 
or aspected by these planets, the native may enjoy many women 
as a result of his quarrels with his wife. 

Sum total is that the 6th lord with Shubha Yoga in the 7th 
house may give prosperity to a person who has chosen his career 
dependant on services, control of diseases, control of crime, 
War, Business, Trade, Partnership, foreign connections etc. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha : 65 


- 6th lord with Ashubha Yoga in the 7th house may cause 
hurdles in way of livelihood, marital life and good health. 
A planet in the 7th house makes one earn wealth through personal 
efforts in its Dasha. When the 6th lord will join the 7th lord in the 
7th house, Dasha of the 6th lord will be more wealth-giving than 
the Dasha of the 7th lord but at the same time Dasha of the 6th lord 
may be more hazardous for life and conjugal happiness than Dasha 
of the 7th lord could be. Whenever the lords of Trika houses join a 
Kendra or Trikona Lord, Dasha or Bhukti of Trika lord becomes 
auspicious and Dasha of Kendra or Trikona lord becomes 
inauspicious or ordinary. A devil in company of a saint 
becomes saintly but a saint in company of devils may lose 
much of his saintliness. 


In the 8th house : 


lf the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 8th house combined 
with or aspected by benefic planets, the 6th lord in Bhuktis of these 
benefics may give auspicious results. If the lord of the 6th house be 
combined with the lord of the ascendant in Rashi or Navamsa 
Chart in Lagna, 8th or 6th house the native may suffer from some 
serious and terrible diseases and also suffer from poverty and 
troubles from enemies during Bhukti of Lagnesh in Dasha of the 
6th lord. If the lord of the 6th house occupies malefic Amsas there 
may be serious diseases and troubles from the enemies in Dasha of 
the 6th lord. If the 6th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th house in 
Navamsa Chart but if the lord of Lagna occupies some benefic 
Navamsa, diseases will be cured and troubles from the enemies 
will be obviated. A planet combined with the 6th lord in the 8th 
house may cause serious diseases and sometimes even death to 
the native during its Bhukti in Dasha of the 6th lord. 


Satyacharya adhered to the view that the 6th lord in the 
8th house must give troubles in its Dasha. [If it is 
combined with or aspected by malefics the native may 
. have endless troubles. If it is combined with or aspected 
by benefics, quick relief from troubles, could be possible. 


In the 9th house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be placed in the 9th house combined 
with the malefics and also if the Sun, the Karaka of the 9th house, 


66 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


be afflicted, father of the native, if alive, may be troubled by diseases 
and enemies in Dasha of the 6th lord. The native himself may 
have troubles from enemies and diseases. Native’s enemies may 
grow in number and strength. His patrimony may deteriorate and 
his ancestral customs and honours may decline during the Dasha 
and Bhukti of the 6th lord. If the 6th lord be combined with Karaka 
Sun in the 9th house native’s father may pass away. If the 6th lord 
be combined with the 9th lord in the 9th house the native and his 
father may not have good relations. In our opinion 6th lord in 
the 9th house if combined with the 9th lord may give 
fortunate results in Dasha of the 6th lord but it may give 
bad results in Dasha of the 9th lord. Normally, 6th lord in 
the 9th house may cause hurdles in rise of fortune. 


In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 10th house, the 
native may have to face interruptions in his assigned duties and 
perform unpleasant deeds. His avocation may be of a despicable 
nature. He may incur displeasure of the government and superiors. 
He may run into ignominy. These results may occur in Dasha or 
Bhukti of the 6th lord, according to Satyacharya. As far as we 
understand, lone 6th lord in the 10th house or 6th lord with 
Ashubha Yoga in the 10th house may give bad results in Dasha 
or Bhukti of the 6th lord whereas 6th lord in conjunction with the 
10th lord or some other benefic may give auspicious results with 
respect to the 10th house prospects in Dasha of the 6th lord but 
Dasha of the 10th lord or some benefic joining the 10th house 
and the 6th lord may give bad results. 


According to Satyacharya, a natural benefic as the 6th 
lord in the 10th house may not give so bad results or it 
may even give good results in its Dasha whereas a 
natural malefic as the 6th lord in the 10th house may 
give bad results in its Dasha. 


In the 11th house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 11th house along 
with the lord of the 11th house, the lord of the 6th house may 
prove detrimental to the means of gains and affluence during its 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 67 


Dasha and Bhukti. If the 6th lord be in association with a Benefic, 
the native may have sometimes gains through his maternal uncle 
and he may sometimes have misunderstandings with his elder 
brother. If the 6th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th position from 
the 11th lord in Navamsa Chart contrary results are possible. If 
the ascendant lord be stronger than the 6th lord, the native may 
have victory over enemies. As far as we understand Mars as 
the 6th lord in the 11th house may cause injury in hands 
or legs or it may cause wounds in these parts. It may 
cause loss of issues. It may cause operation of heart or 
stomach in some cases. Saturn as the 6th lord in the 
11th house may cause physical trouble and may delay 
issues. The Sun as the 6th lord may give resulis akin to 
Mars. Mercury or Moon as the 6th lord may cause mental 
aberrations. Jupiter as the 6th lord may give abdominal 
problems. Venus as the 6th lord may give urinal troubles. 


In the 12th house : 


If the lord of the 6th house be posited in the 12th 
house along with the 12th lord, the native’s enemies 
may be ruined and wiped out in Dasha of the 6th lord 
but during the commencement of the Dasha of the 6th 
lord the the native may commit some misdeeds too. The 
6th lord can give illness or some evil results during the sub-period 
of planet with which it is combined in the 12th house. If combined 
with benefics, Dasha of the 6th lord will be mostly auspicious. It 
follows therefrom that if the 6th lord be combined with malefics, 
Dasha of the 6th lord will give very bad results. If the 6th lord 
occupies 6th, 8th or 12th position from the 12th lord in Navamsa 
Chart, Dasha of the 6th lord may not be so good. If, however, the 
6th lord occupies a Trikona in Navamsa Chart results may be 
good in Dasha of the 6th lord. 


Summing up the results of the Dasha of the lord of the 6th 
house Satyacharya asserted : 

(1) If the lord of the 6th house be posited in Kendra or Trikona 
house and if the ascendant lord be devoid of strength, the native 
may have fear of being hand-cuffed or other kinds of fear from 
the government in Dasha of the 6th lord and in sub-periods of 


68 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


either of (a) dispositor of the 6th lord (b) planet in conjunction 
with the 6th lord or (c) planet aspected by the 6th lord. 


(2) If the 6th lord and the ascendant lord combine in a house, 
the nature of the disease, enemy and death that the native may 
have, has to be determined with references to the position of their 
dispositor, the nature of the sign and house occupied by these 
two lords. For example if the ascendant lord and the 6th lord 
combine in the 5th house in Leo sign the native may have fear of 
abdominal problems or heart-trouble. He may have fear from the 
government too. He may have fear from fire too. 


(3) The native may experience troubles during the sub-periods 
of planets that are in association with the 6th lord. 


(4) lf malefics are in association with the 6th ford and if the 
6th lord is hemmed in between malefics in Gochara, the 
significations of the Bhava or House in which malefics are in 
Gochara may suffer deterioration or destruction quickly. If these 
malefics are in lagna during Gochara the native may have 
sickness. These matefics in 2nd house in Gochara may cause 
financial reversal. Those in the 10th house may cause professional 
set-backs. 


CHAPTER-IX GD 


EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 
7TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES 


One of the most important feature of Satya Jatakam 
seems to be its over-emphasis on the 7th house and its 
lord as giver of foreign travel, foreign residence and 
foreign connection. Yavana Jataka has treated the 12th 
house and its lord as giving foreign connections. 9th 
house and its lord may also give foreign travels. 


In the Ist house : 


If the lord of the 7th house be placed in the 1st house along 
with the 1st lord (ascendant. lord) the native may go to some foreign 
or distant place and may have happiness there. He will have frequent 
travels to distant lands and his wife may manage the household 
works. All these may happen in Dasha of the 7th lord. If benefics 
combine with the 7th lord, the native may be a sailor or a captain 
of a crew. If only malefics combine with the 7th lord, the native 
may always be begging. If both malefics and benefics be joining 
the 7th lord, results will be mixed ones. If Lagnesh or the Ist lord be 
weak, Dasha of the 7th lord may even cause death of the native. If 
the 7th lord be weak or posited in the 6th, 8th or 12th from the Ist 
lord in Navamsa Chart, the native’s foreign travel may be in vain 
or fruitless and likely good results may not happen. 


Presence of the 7th lord in the 1st house makes the native 
always travelling from place to place. He will be always in the 
midst of ladies hankering after sexual pleasures. As the 7th lord 
is both wealth-giving and killer, its presence in Lagna may 
make one wealthy through trade and business or through woman 
but it may also give some serious illness during Dasha of the 
7th lord. 


70 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


In the 2nd house : 


If the lord of the 7th house be placed in the 2nd house along 
with the 2nd lord, the native may have gains of wealth through 
his wife during Dasha of the 7th lord. The native may get money 
from some distant place. In some cases death may happen 
to the native or his wife in Dasha of the 7th lord. 
Alternatively, in some cases the native may be separated from his 
wife in a distant place or he may acquire a new wife in a distant 
place. If the lord of the 7th house occupies the 8th house in 
Navamsa Chart, his wife will not die, rather his sister may die. 
Much will depend on planets joining and aspecting the 7th lord. 


Since 7th lord represents partnerships, joint ventures, trade 
and business apart from wealth through wife and in-laws, we may 
say that the 7th lord in the 2nd house if not badly afflicted or 
otherwise rendered powerless, must make one wealthy through 
any of these sources in Dasha of the 7th lord or the planets 
associated or connected with the 7th lord. If the 7th lord joins the 
2nd lord in the 2nd house, it may cause fear of death to the native 
and his wife. So far as Marakas are concerned, natural 
benefics owning the 2nd or the 7th house are more 
dangerous than natural malefics. For Aries Lagna presence 
of the 2nd cum 7th lord Venus in the 2nd or 7th house is dangerous 
for life. For Gemini Lagna, 7th lord Jupiter in the 7th or 2nd 
house is a powerful killer. For Virgo Lagna 7th lord Jupiter in the 
2nd or 7th house is a powerful killer. For Libra Lagna 2nd cum 
7th lord Mars in the 2nd or the 7th house is also a killer. For 
Scorpio Lagna 7th lord Venus in the 2nd or 7th house is a powerful 
killer. For Sagittarius and Pisces Lagnas 7th lord Mercury in the 
2nd or the 7th house is also a powerful killer. As the 7th lord is 
also a Badhaka for Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces Lagnas, 
presence of the 7th lord in the 2nd house in these four Lagnas 
may act as hindrance to affluence, family happiness, enrichment 
and education too. In case of other Lagnas 7th lord in the 2nd 
house may give affluence, unless the 7th lord be rendered 
powerless. If Dasha of the 7th lord is possible, results may be 
experienced during such period, otherwise 7th lord may give its 
results in Dasha of any of these : (i) Planet joined with the 7th 
lord (ii) Planet aspected by the 7th lord (iii) Dispositor of the 7th 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 71 


lord and (iv) lord of Nakshatra occupied by the 7th lord. These 
rules may also apply elsewhere. 


In the 3rd house : 


lf the lord of the 7th house be posited in the 3rd house along 
with the 3rd lord, native’s father-in-law and his people may prosper 
during the Dasha of the 7th lord or the native may have another 
marriage during Dasha of the 7th lord or his brother may die or the 
native may reside in a foreign place during the sub-period of the 
3rd lord in Dasha of the 7th lord. If there be a combination of 
benefics, his brother may sometimes be happy but if there be a 
combination of malefics, his brother may die. If the 7th lord be 
posited in the 6th, 8th and 12th from the 3rd lord in Navamsa Chart 
aforesaid results may not occur. Satyacharya held that conjunction 
of benefic planets with the 7th lord may reduce evil results but the 
same with malefics may make the evil results only worse. 


As far as we understand, 7th lord in the 3rd house 
(9th from the 7th) may give rise in one’s fortune through 
life-partner, business, trade or through personal efforts in 
Dasha of the 7th lord or the 3rd lord or some planet 
connected with the 7th lord. Such a native may have 
better prospects in a touring job, journalism, 
communication works, work based on skill of hands and 
jobs of courage. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the 7th house be placed in the 4th house along 
with the 4th lord, the native may lead a happy life with the relatives 
of his wife. He will have many travels in connection with his 
lands and properties. During the beginning of the period of the 
lord of the 7th house, there may be celebrations of marriage etc. 
in his family but his mother may fall sick or die in the same period. 
He may acquire wealth or conveyance through his learning in a 
distant place or in some foreign place. Good results depend opon 
the strength of the 7th lord and upon benefic influences on the 7th 
lord. Strength of the 4th lord is equally important for good results. 
Strength of Moon, Mercury, Mars and Venus as respective karakas 
of Mother, Education, Property and Vahanas is equally important. 


72 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


(If the 7th lord and lord of the 4th house of the karaka of the 4th 
house be devoid of strength, results as mentioned above may be 
on apoor scale. If the 7th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th place 
from the 4th lord in Navamsa Chart good results may not occur 
or they may be considerably weakened. 


As the 4th house is the 10th from the 7th house, we understand 
that the 7th lord in the 4th house with a Shubha Yoga must give 
rise in rank and position of the life-partner (wife or husband) as the 
case may be in Dasha of the 7th lord. For those in trade and business 
Dasha of such 7th lord may give immense prosperity. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord of the 7th house be placed in the 5th house along 
with the 5th lord, the native may lose his wife and children during 
Dasha of the 7th lord. lf, however, there be a combination of 
benefics with the 7th lord evil results may be considerably reduced 
and his wife and children may be happy. The native may receive 
letters from some rich people or highly placed person residing in 
foreign land or some distant place. The native may get money 
from his sons or father. If the 7th lord be weak in strength good 
results may be on a poor scale. If the 7th lord occupies the 6th, 
8th or 12th from the 5th lord in Navamsa Chart or if it is conjoined 
with malefics in Rashi Chart one should expect good results. 


As far as we understand 2nd lord or 7th lord from Lagna is a 
Maraka for the native. Similarly, 6th lord or 11the lord respectively 
as 2nd and 7th lords for the 5th house may act as Marakas for 
children. 8th lord being 2nd lord from the 7th house may better 
act as Maraka for wife or husband as the case may be. We 
respectfully differ with Satyacharya that presence of the 7th lord 
in the 5th house may cause death of children or wife. Presence of 
the 7th lord as a Kendra-lord in the 5th house along with the 5th 
lord may in fact confer Raja Yoga on the native. As the 5th house 
is in the 11th from the 7th house, presence of the 7th lord in the 
11th house may give quite beneficial results to the wife or the 
husband as the case may be in Dasha of the 7th lord. 


In the 6th house : 
If the lord of the 7th house is posited in the 6th house along 


Advanced Study of Virnshottari Dasha 73 


with the 6th lord and some malefics, many evil results are possible 
in Dasha of the 7th lord. Native’s wife may be separated or she 
may fall sick or she may die depending upon the extent of evil 
influences or she may be subjected to disgrace. Native’s maternal 
uncle may die or be in deep troubles. His enemy living in a far off 
place may pick up quarrels with him in a public meeting and may 
cause troubles to the native. There may be theft in the house of 
the native. Combination with benefic planets may alleviate the 
troubles to a great extent. 


As the 6th house is an evil house both from Lagna and the 
7th house, presence of the 7th lord in the 6th house in all cases 
except Leo and Virgo Lagnas may give quite adverse results in 
matters of conjugal happiness, trade, business or profession of 
any kind. It may cause ill-health to both spouse combined with 
set-backs in profession in Dasha of the 7th lord. In case of Leo 
Lagna presence of the 6th cum 7th lord Saturn in the 6th house 
may not give such bad results. In case of Virgo Lagna 7th cum 
6th lord Saturn may also not give such bad results. For Leo and 
Virgo Lagnas Saturn in the 6th house, will cause Harsha Yoga 
whereas Saturn in the 7th house will cause Sasha Yoga which is 
a Maha Purusha Yoga. For both these lagnas Saturn in the 6th 
house, however, is detrimental for conjugal happiness. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 7th house be placed in the 7th house 
conjoined with benefics, it must give quite auspicious results in 
its Dasha. !f not married, the native will be married early. His 
wife may come from rich family and she may be devoted to her 
husband. She will be beautiful and the marriage may be performed 
with great celebrations. During this period of the 7th lord the 
native may perform many other auspicious ceremonies. He may 
get opportunity to go to foreign countries or distant places and 
live there. He may acquire wealth through noble people. He will 
be successful in his endeavours and may get fortunate results 
during this period. If on the other hand the 7th lord be combined 
with malefic planets it may even cause death or other serious 
troubles to the native. If the 7th lord be weak, results may not be 
so good. If conjoining planets be benefics they may give auspicious 


74 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


results in their sub-periods. lf conjoining planets be malefics they 
may give unfavourable results in their sub-periods. If the 7th lord 
be posited in the 6th, 8th or 12th house in Navamsa Chart, it may 
give delayed marriage or it may cause death of his wife or make 
her inimical to husband in Dasha or Bhukti of the 7th lord. 


A planet in its own Rashi or in its own Navamsa generally 
gives auspicious results in its Dasha or Bhukti. Barring Capricorn 
and Aquarius Lagnas 7th lord in the 7th house will be causing 
Maha Purusha Yoga. But 7th lord in the 7th house may also 
cause fear of death. If the 7th lord also owns the 2nd house it 
must be a very powerful killer. A natural, benefic as the 7th or 
2nd lord in the 7th or 2nd house is also a very powerful killer if it 
is afflicted by malefics. 


In the 8th house : 


If the lord of the 7th house be posited in the 8th house 
conjoined with a malefic planet and if Karaka planet be also weak, 
Dasha or Bhukti of the 7th lord may prove to be very evil. It may 
either cause the death of the native or the death of his wife or it 
may cause some serious illness or trouble to them. The native 
may go abroad get into miseries and troubles there. In some cases 
the native may develop serious and acute diseases through women 
or he may have some other troubles in his foreign residence on 
account of women. If the 7th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th 
house from the 8th lord in Navamsa Chart, these evil results may not 
happen. 


As far as we understand the 8th house being the 2nd from 
the 7th house is a powerful killer for one’s life-partner though it 
will never deny affluence to such life-partner. If 7th lord is conjoined 
with the 8th lord in the 8th house, Dasha or Bhukti of the 7th lord 
will make one’s life-partner affluent but it may give fear of death 
to life-partner also. If such a 7th lord is also combined 
with Mars in the 8th house in a female horoscope it may 
either cause widowhood or divorce to her. 


In the 9th house : 


If the lord of the 7th house is placed in the 9th house along 
witn the 9th lord or benefic planets, Dasha of the 7th lord may 


Advanced Study of Virshottari Dasha 75 


give quite auspicious results. It indicates that the native will 
become fortunate through his wife or her husband. In case of 
male horoscope the native may get the property of his wife. The 
native may get much wealth. He will be very rich and remain 
happy throughout his life. He may carry on his profession in 
some foreign place or at quite a distant place. He may acquire 
vast wealth of his father who has gone to a foreign place or a 
distant place. The effects of the planets joining and aspecting the 
7th lord placed in the 9th house should be carefully studied. 
Needless to say, Jupiter in Lagna aspecting the 7th house and 7th 
lord in the 9th house may give the best result. Jupiter in the 3rd 
house or 5th house may also give good results. If the lord of the 
7th house be weak in strength or if it is powerless, good results 
may be quite meagre. If the 7th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th 
house from lagna or tt.e 9th lord in Navamsa Chart, good results 
may not materialise at all. 


As far as we know, 7th lord in the 9th house may make one 
eke out his livelihood at quite a distant place from one’s native 
place. Such a native may always be on his legs in connection 
with his occupation. A native with 7th lard in the 9th 
house having Shubha Yoga may also eke out his fortune 
better through partnership in some business or trade. 


In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the 7th house be posited in the 10th house along 
with the 10th lord, the native may acquire much name and fame 
in a foreign place or at a distant place of his occupation. The 

‘native and his wife will be righteous in their deeds. Native’s words 
or orders will be highly respected and obeyed. If the lord of the 
10th house be weak in strength, all these results will certainly be 
poor. These results are to be anticipated in Dasha of the 7th lord, 
if possible. If it is not possible, dispositor of the 7th lord or other 
connected planet may give such results in their Dashas. As the 
7th is 10th from 10th, 7th house and 7th lord are also the 
determinants of our profession. 

lf the ascendant lord be combined with benefics and also 
with the lord of the 6th house in addition to the placement of the 
7th lord and the 10th lord, the native may be a commander of 


76 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Army or Armed Forces travelling widely and conquering his 

enemies. If there is also Death-inflicting Yoga, the native may die 
_ in battle-field. As the 6th lord rules over enemies and also as the 
‘ 7th lord rules over war, battles and death, such kinds of inferences 
| seem to be quite logical. 


‘In the 11th house : 


If the lord of the 7th house be posited in the 11th house along 
with benefics and if the 7th lord be in its highest exaltation point, 
the native may have much gains in foreign countries or at distant 
places in Dasha of the 7th lord. If the 7th lord be weak in strength, 
gains may be quite meagre. Ifthe 7th lord be joined with malefics, 
bad results are possible. 


In the 12th house : 


{f the lord of the 7th house be posited in the 12th house along 

with the 12th lord and also if Karaka Venus be very weak, it 
indicates danger to his wife and interruptions in native’s marital 
happiness in Dasha of the 7th lord. If malefics join the 7th lord, 
evil results may follow on a large scale. Malefic aspects on the 7th 
lord may also accentuate evil results. Benefics joining or aspecting 
the 7th lord may quite moderate the evil results. Presence of the 
7th lord in the 12th house indicates the possibility of foreign 
residence or foreign connection of any kind. The 7th lord in 
the 12th house is an astrological passport for some foreign 
assignment. 


CHAPTER-X 


EFFECTS OF THE DASHA OF 
THE LORD OF THE 8TH HOUSE 
IN VARIOUS HOUSES 


In the Ist house : 


If the lord of the 8th house be posited in Lagna along with 
the lord of Lagna, Dasha of the 8th lord may cause sorrows, poverty 
and indebtedness to the native. He may suffer from miseries in 
life. If benefics are in combination with the 8th lord evil results 
may be moderated or the results may be of mixed nature. Influence 
of malefic planets on the 8th house by way of conjunction and 
aspect may further intensify the evil results which may come in 
the form of spates of diseases, trails of misfortunes, mental worries 
and displeasure of the government and the superiors during Dasha 
of the 8th lord. If ascendant lord be weak in strength, evil results 
must be happening. A strong and powerful ascendant lord may 
not allow the situation to go out of hand. If the 8th lord be weak 
in strength or if the 8th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th from 
Lagnesh in Navamsa Chart the evil results may be toned down. 
Dasha of the 8th lord or its Bhukti gives miseries. Malefic 
influences aggravate them. Benefic influences tone them down. 


In the 2nd house : 


lf the lord of the 8th house be posited in the 2nd house along 
with the 2nd lord, there may be miseries and troubles in the family, 
expenditure of money on a large scale, losses of various kinds, 
quarrels and feuds in the house etc. in Dasha or Bhukti of the 8th 
lord. His words may not be respected. His wife may quarrel with 
him. If there is Mrityu Yoga, the native may die or may suffer from 
some malignant disease. Eye-troubles, mouth-troubles, teeth- 
troubles, facial troubles, tongue troubles or speech troubles could 
be the possible ailments. Further, the native may suffer from 


78 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


poverty and misfortunes. If the lord of th 8th house be in the 6th, 
8th or 12th from Lagna or the 2nd lord in Navamsa Chart bad 
results may be moderated. 


Satyacharya said : “If the lord of the 8th house be placed in 
houses other than the 6th, 8th or 12th houses such houses shall 
be destroyed. If in addition there be a malefic planet in such 
house, that house is completely ruined. If there be a Shubha 
Yoga the concerned house thrives moderately and the period of 
the lord of the 8th in this case by and large may prove to be good. 


In the 3rd house : 


If the lord of the 8th house be posited in the 3rd house along 
with the lord of the 3rd house, during Dasha of the 8th lord the 
native may run into an ever-increasing debt; his brothers may 
become unhealthy or sickly ; the native may be depressed in spirits; 
he may have ear-complaints or ear-nose-throat problems or 
problems in hands or legs; he may have quarrels or 
misunderstandings with his brothers; he may lose his valour, 
courage, prowess etc. If benefics join the 8th lord evil results may 
be moderated and the native may also experience some good 
results. If there is a malefic yoga it will mostly give unhappy results 
but never totally bad results because natural malefics in the 3rd, 
6th and 11th houses also give quite auspicious results. In a way, 
the 8th lord may obstruct their good effects. If the 8th lord joins 
the 6th lord and the 12th lord evil results may be cancelled 
and good results may be ensuing in its place. The native 
may be endowed with wealth and ruling power under these 
conditions as it may give the results of a kind of Vipareet Raja 
Yoga. 


In the 4th house : 


if the lord of the 8th house be posited in the 4th house along 
with the 4th lord, the native may have happiness and unhappiness 
by alternation in Dasha or Bhukti of the 8th lord. Significations 
of the 4th house, namely, comforts, happiness, cattle, landed 
property, education conveyances, popularity, patrimony etc. may 
suffer. He may lose a portion of these or some of these depending 
upon the strength of the 4th lord and Karakas Moon, Mars, Mercury 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 79 


and Venus. His mother, if alive, may not keep good health during 
this period. Benefic conjunctions with or benefic aspects on the 
&th lord may definitely tone down the intensity of evil results. But 
if malefics join or aspect the 8th lord, the results may be very bad. 
The native may incur the anger or displeasure of his superiors or 
the government. There may be troubles to his mother, cattle, 
conveyances and landed property. He may have danger from 
animals, vehicles and water. Heart trouble is also possible. 
He may have to live in lands of strangers, begging and suffering. 


In the 5th house: 


If the lord of the 8th house be posited in the 5th house along 
with the 5th lord, the native may incur the hatred of his father or 
his son or he may commit some crime or he may have some fear 
of danger or trouble from the government as a result of his 
misunderstanding with some high-up or superior. His son may 
fall ill. Native’s undertakings in Tantra-Mantra may prove to be 
all flops. He may lose in speculations. He may lose divine favour 
and favour of superiors or the government too. If the 5th lord and 
its karaka Jupiter be weak, the native may lose a child or his 
children may die as soon as they are born. If benefics join the 8th 
lord, effects will be of a mixed nature. If malefics join the 8th lord 
the native may have fear of death through some accident or heart- 
attack. If the 8th lord occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th from lagna or 
5th lord in Navamsa Chart, good effects will be very little. But if 
the 8th lord occupies Kendra or Trikona in Navamsa Chart results 
may be intensely bad. lf Lagna and Lagnesh be afflicted in addition 
to the 5th house and 5th lord afflicted by the 8th lord the native 
may suffer from mental ill-health. All these may happen in Dasha 
of the 8th lord or its dispositor 5th lord. 


In the 6th house : 


If the lord of the 8th house be posited in the 6th house along 
with the 6th lord, it must give good results in Dasha of the 8th lord 
or the 6th lord whichever is possible. According to Satyacharya, 
whenever the 8th lord is placed in the 6th, 8th or 12th 
‘house it gives auspicious results in its Dasha. lf the 8th lord 
is combined with the 12th lord also in any of Trika houses (6th, 8th 


80 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha + 


and 12th houses) good results are experienced. If, however, the 
8th lord be placed in Ist, 4th, 5th 7th, 9th or 10th house it may give | 
evil results mostly. If the 8th lord also owns lagna or 5th or 9th! 
house stigma of 8th lordship may be considerably weakened. There 
is, however, possibility of diseases during the period of the 8th lord 

placed in the 6th house. In some cases evil may be caused to the 

native’s maternal uncle. If the 6th lord be weak, the native may 

have danger from diseases, thieves, robbers and indebtedness. If 

the 6th lord be strong, he will have long life and will crush his 

enemies. Another version says that if Lagnesh being a natural 

malefic is weak in a Kendra or Trikona house and if there is no 

natural benefic in Kendra and Trikona house, 8th lord in the 6th 

house may give severe disease in its Dasha. 


In the 7th house : 


If the 8th lord be placed in the 7th house along with the 7th 
lord the native’s wife may fall sick in Dasha of the 8th lord. If the 
8th lord be a malefic, the native may be afflicted with some disease 
or if there be a Mrityu Yoga, the native may also die in a distant 
place. If, however, lagnesh and the 7th lord be both strong, Dasha 
of the 8th lord may mostly give good results. 


It will not be out of place to mention here that whenever the 
8th lord is combined with four and more planets and also if the 
same has Maraka connection, the native may die along with many 
others in Dasha or Bhukti of the 8th lord or some other planets 
connected with the 8th lord. Whenever the 8th lord joins the 7th 
lord in a Maraka house killing potentiality is passed on to the 8th 
lord. The 8th lord becomes more a killer and 7th lord gives 
misfortunes of other kinds. 


In the 8th house : 


If the lord of the 8th house is posited in the 8th house itself 
and it is combined with or aspected by beneficial planets, Dasha 
of the 8th lord may give beneficial results in consonance with the 
benefics influencing the 8th lord. During the currency of Dasha 
of the 8th lord with Shubha Yoga the native may get wealth, power, 
conveyances, comforts and gifts from the government. If the 8th 
lord be weak, effects may be feeble or poor. If the 8th lord occupies 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 81 


the 6th, 8th or 12th house in Navamsa Chart, results may be 
again poor, even if the 8th lord has Shubha Yoga. If the 8th lord . 
be combined with malefic planets, the native may experience trails 
of misfortune in Dasha of the 8th lord. He may have some serious 
illness. He may lead an unhappy life. He may lose his father. He 
may experience hurdles in rise of his fortune. He may fail in his 
endeavours and enterprises. 


Readers may please note that the 8th lord in the 8th house 
cause auspicious Sarala Yoga that destroys hurdles and 
misfortunes in its Dasha and gives smooth sail thereafter. 
According to Shiva Jatak, 8th lord in the 8th house in 
its own Dasha or in Dasha of its dispositor when posited 
in other houses must confer on its native good effects of 
Raja Yoga though the native may also experience some 
dangers to life. 


In the 9th house : 


If the lord of the 8th house be posited in the 9th house along 
with the lord of the 9th house and also if the Sun, the Karaka for 
father, is weak Dasha of the 8th lord may cause death of father or 
misunderstandings with father or father’s displeasure or loss of 
patrimony. If the 8th lord joins some benefic, it may either tone 
down the evil results or it may give mixed results. If the lord of the 
9th house be weak Dasa of the 8th lord may confer misfortunes, 
hardships, worries, poverty and displeasure of the superiors or 
the Government. Satyacharya says that before making predictions 
one must note carefully the impact of planets joining the 8th lord. 


As far as we understand, 8th lord spoils the signification of 
the auspicious houses joined by it. Therefore, the 8th lord in 
its Dasha may give misfortunes as a rule. If, however, 
the 8th lord joins the 9th lord, Dasha of the 8th lord 
gives fortunate results and Dasha of the 9th lord gives 
either unfortunate or ordinary results as emphasised by 
Bhavartha Ratnakara and Uttarakalamrita. 


In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the 8th house be placed in the 10th house along 
with the 10th lord, the native may suffer professional set-back during 


82 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Dasha of the 8th lord. He may pursue a mean profession or he 
may be engaged in performing wrongful and evil deeds. He may 
undergo disgrace and humiliation. He may also be punished by 
superior officers or by the government for not obeying or for 
infringement of government orders. If the lord of the 10th house be 
weak, the native may suffer from poverty. He may also lose his 
mother if the karaka Moon be weak or afflicted. If Mars be weak in 
combination with the 4th and the 5th lords, the native may lose his 
landed property as a result of some mandatory or statutory procedure 
or his creditors may usurp his landed property after persecuting 
him for recovery of their debts due to him. If the 8th lord occupies 
6th, 8th or 12th house from lagna or 10th lord in Navamsa Chart, 
evil reults may be moderated or mixed results may be experienced. 


Satyacharya says that evil results are possible in Dasha of 
the 8th lord. Some others say that Dasha of the 8th lord may give 
good results and Dasha of the lord of the 10th house may give 
bad results if the two lords combine. Shiva Jataka on the other 
hand says: “Dasha of the dispositor of the 8th lord and 
Dasha of the lord of the house aspected by the 8th lord 
too may confer Raja Yoga though it may also cause some 
misfortune or danger to life.” 

It is for readers to judge by experience which view is more 
nearer the truth. 


In the 11th house : 


If the lord of the 8th house be placed in the 11th house along 
with the lord of the 11th house, significations of the 11th house 
may be spoiled. There may be troubles to elder brother if alive or 
there may be losses in business or the native may incur debts and 
financial difficulties in Dasha of the 8th lord. There may be 
disputes with elder brother in some cases. There may be disease 
or injury to arms, hands and legs in some cases. Combination of 
benefic planets may alleviate the troubles while combination of 
malefic planets may make the troubles more intense. 


To our mind, if the 8th lord occupies the 11th house and 
Janma Lagna be in moveable Rashi. intensity of evil results may 
further increase in Dasha or Bhukti of the 8th lord or the 11th 
lord. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 83 


In the 12th house : 


If the lord of the 8th house be placed in the 12th house along 
with the 12th lord, Dasha of the 8th lord may give auspicious 
results such as wealth, power and position. It confers both Raja 
Yoga and Dhana Yoga. It is known as Vipareet Raja Yoga. The 
same can happen also when the lord of the 8th house is placed in 
the 6th house. If, however, benefic planets are combined with the 
lord of the 8th house they may all lose their benefic nature and 
bad results may occur. 


Satyacharya adhered to the following views : 


{i) Lone 8th lord in the 6th house may cause worries, fear 
and troubles from the enemies in Dasha of the 8th lord. 

(ii) Lone 8th lord in the 12th house may cause much 
expenditure in Dasha of the 8th lord. 

(iii) Lone 8th lord in the 8th house in its Dasha may cause 
sorrows, poverty, fear and uneasiness of mind. 

(iv) If the 8th lord be combined with Benefics, its Dasha 
may yield good results. 

(v) If the lord of the 8th house is a natural benefic, it will give 
mixed results in its Dasha. 

(vi) If the lord of the 8th house is in its own Navamsa it may 
similarly give mixed results in its Dasha. 

(vii) If dispositor of the 8th lord be posited in a Kendra ora 
Trikona house and is also associated with benefics, it may give 
good results in Dasha of the 8th lord but it may damage the 
prospect and significance of the house occupied by such dispositor. 

(viii) The Dasha and Bhukti of the 8th lord in combination 
with a benefic will certainly give good results. 

(ix) But even a benefic well-placed in the horoscope may 
give bad results in its Dasha and Bhukti if it is combined with the 
8th lord. 

(x) Dasha or Bhukti of a malefic planet in combination with 
the 8th lord on the other hand may give good results. 

(xi) Even a benefic planet that is in some Kendra or Trikona 
house in combination with the 8th lord and a malefic planet there 


84 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


will produce bad results in its own Bhukti in Dasha of the 8th 
lord. It may cause unhealthiness to the native and his relatives. It 
may give him unsteady mind, diseases to his mother and disgrace 
to his wife. 


(xii) If the lord of the 8th house be a natural benefic or if it 
owns Lagna, 5th or 9th house, stigma of the 8th lordship is 
considerably reduced as in case of Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra and 
Aquarius Lagnas. 


(xiii) If the lord of the 8th house and its dispositior are 
combined, the 8th lord in its Dasha and Bhukti and also in Bhukti 
of its dispositor may cause sorrows, misery and poverty. 


It is a secret of all the secrets that the 5th lord and 
the 9th lord in their periods may cause windfall gains of 
some kind whereas the 8th lord and the 12th lord and 
also sometimes afflicted 4th lord in their periods may 
cause sudden misfortunes like a bolt from the blue. The 
three trina! houses of a horoscope, namely, Lagna, 5th house and 
9th house and their lords are the three determinants of our Fortune 
in more or less degrees. The 8th and 12th houses from these 
trinal houses namely the 8th house (8th from lagna and 12th from 
9th house), 12th house (8th from 5th house and 12th from lagna) 
and 4th house (8th from 9th house and 12th from the 5th house) 
and their lords are the three determinants of our misfortune in 
more or less degrees. As the 8th and 12th houses are evil from 
lagna, everyone knows that the 8th house, 8th lord, 12th house 
and 12th lord may give calamities or misfortunes. But as the 4th 
house and 4th lord are held to be auspicious it has gone unnoticed 
by most of the astrologers that an afflicted 4th house and 4th 
lord may cause sudden demise by fall from height, by 
some conveyance in motion, by massive heart-stroke or 
by drowning in water or by some water infection or by 
electrocution etc. It may even precipitate a downfall 
after giving a rise in career. Affliction of the 4th house is 
always detrimental for happiness of mind, progenic happiness, 
patrimony, capital formation and professional stability. 


CHAPTER-XI 


EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 
9TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES 


Before discussing effects of the Dasha of the lord of the 9th 
house we would like to say a few words about so-called Badhaka 
houses and Badhaka lords. It has been said in classical works that 
the 11th house and its lord are Badhakas for natives bor in cardinal 
or moveable signs. It is further said that the 7th house and its lord 
are Badhakas for natives born in common or dual signs and also 
that the 9th house and 9th lord are Badhakas for natives born in 
fixed signs. We have elsewhere examined in detail about the 
rationale behind this classical concept of Badhaka and arrived at 
the conclusion that classical views about Badhakas for 
natives born in cardinal and common signs are reasonable 
but their views about Badhakas for natives born in fixed 
signs are neither sustainable nor reasonable. We have 
discovered that the 3rd house and the 3rd lord are in fact 
Badhakas for natives born in fixed signs. 


Concept of Badhakas has its roots in planetary enmities. For 
Aries Lagna Aquarius sign and its lord Saturn are held to be malefics 
and hence Badhakas. For Cancer Lagna Taunus sign and its lord 
Venus view the Moon as their enemy. Therefore, 11th house and 
11th lord Venus are Badhakas for Cancer Lagna. For Libra lagna 
11th house and 11th lord Sun (enemy) are held to be Badhakas. For 
Capricorn Lagna 11th lord Mars is enemy of Lagnesh Saturn. 
Therefore, 11th house and 11th lord Mars are held to be Badhakas 
for Capricorn lagna. As Satum views Mars as its enemy 11th house 
and 11th lord have been rightly held to be Badhakas for natives born 
in Aries and Capricorn Lagnas. As the Sun and Venus are enemies 
of each other and also as Venus treats the Moon as its enemy, for 
natives born in Cancer and Libra Lagnas 11th house and 11th lord 


86 Advanced Study of Vimshottart Dasha 


are rightly held to be Badhakas. For natives born in Gemini and 
Virgo Lagnas 7th lord Jupiter views Mercury as its enemy and 
therefore, 7th house and 7th lord are rightly held to be Badhakas for 
Gemini and Virgo Lagnas. As 7th lord Mercury is held to be enemy 
by Jupiter, 7th house and 7th lord are rightly held to be Badhakas for 
Sagittarius and Pisces Lagnas. As regards fixed signs no saner person 
can accept the classical view that the 9th house and 9th lord are 
Badhakas for fixed Lagnas. As we all know that the 9th lord Saturn 
and Lagnesh Venus are not only bosom friends but also that the 9th 
lord Saturn is yogakarak for Tauras Lagna. Similarly, for Leo Lagna 
9th lord Mars is not only a close friend of the Sun but is also yogakaraka. 
For Scorpio Lagna 9th lord Moon is a close friend of Lagnesh Mars. 
For Aquarius Lagna 9th lord Venus is a close friend of Lagnesh Saturn 
and also the most beneficial one. Therefore, no reasonable person 
may agree with the classical view that the 9th house and its lord are 
Badhakas for natives born in fixed signs. It appears that our Sages 
in fact visualised the 3rd house and its lord as Badhakas for natives 
bom in fixed signs but due to some oral error the same was mistaken 
as the 9th house and its lord. There is some valid point in my aforsaid 
stand. For Taurus Lagna 3rd lord Moon is held to be inimical by 
Lagnesh Venus. For Leo Lagna 3rd lord Venus is held to be quite 
inimical to Lagnesh Sun. For Scorpio Lagna 3rd lord Saturn is 
inimical to Lagnesh Mars. For Aquarius Lagna 3rd lord Mars is held 
to be inimical by Lagnesh Satum. Therefore, there is proper sense 
in holding the 3rd house and its lord as Badhakas for natives born in 
fixed Lagnas. We rule out the possibility of the 9th house and the 9th 
lord as Badhakas for natives born in fixed Lagnas. It is settled in 
astrology that the 9th lord is the most auspicious planet. 
Even if the 9th lord occupies some evil house, it will give 
better results than many other lords. 


In the Ist house : 


If the lord of the 9th house be posited in Lagna along with 
Lagnesh and benefics, the native may during the Dasha of the 
9th lord acquire wealth, conveyances, power or status of a ruler 
or a minister depending upon the strength of benefic influences. 
He will be powerful and may have high status. His patrimony 
may flourish well through his efforts. He may support and maintain 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 87 


many people daily and be charitable by disposition. He may 
hold a powerful post in the administration. The results 
may be of poor order if the lord of the 9th house be weak. Even 
these poor results may not be possible if the lord of the 9th house 
occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th house from the Lagna or Lagnesh in 
Navamsa Chart. If Mars be the lord of the 9th house and 
also Yogakaraka as in case of Leo and Pisces Lagna the 
native may be a commander-in-chief in the army or a 
high police official or a high official. He may have enormous 
landed property or wealth of some kind. If the lord of the 9th 
house is conjoined with Rahu, the native may be high official 
under some Mlechha Ruler or the native may hold some high post 
or position in some foreign concern. If the lord of the 9th_ 
house be the Moon, the native may be an officer in charge 
of the treasury or bank. 


As far as we know the Moon as the 9th lord gives ups and 
downs in fortune depending upon Pakshabala of the Moon. 
Further, strength of dispositor is also quite essential for full fruition 
of the results of the 9th lord. 


In the 2nd house : 


If the 9th lord is posited in the 2nd house along with the 2nd 
lord, the native will be quite rich and wealthy during the Dasha of 
the 9th lord. His income will be enormous more than a lakh. He 
will be highly respected and will be very influential. His family 
will flourish because of him. He may have all types of comforts. 
He will eat good food. If malefics be in combination with the 9th 
lord, aforesaid good results may be feeble or poor ones. If there 
are also death-inflicting Yogas present there, Dasha of the 9th 
lord in some such cases may even cause the death of the native. 
If the lord of the 9th house occupies the 6th, 8th or 12th from 
Lagnesh or the 2nd lord in Navamsa Chart results may not be as 
good as normally expected. There is substance of truth in 
Satyacharya’s version that we must take into 
consideration the effects of planets joining and aspecting 
the 9th lord. A natural or functionai benefic joining or 
aspecting the 9th lord may give affluence par excellence. 
A natural or functional malefic joining or aspecting the 


88 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


9th lord on the other hand may suddenly reverse the 
good results like a bolt from the blue. 


In the 3rd house : 


{f the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 3rd house along 
with the 3rd lord, the significations of the 3rd house may thrive in 
Dasha of the 9th lord. It may increase the fortune of the native’s 
brother. The native too may have gains from music. If the lord of 
the 9th house be weak or if the 9th lord occupies evil houses from 
Lagna or the 3rd lord in Navamsa Chart good results may be very 
little. As far as we understand, 9th lord in the 3rd house is quite a 
strong positon as in every case 9th lord will be aspecting its own 
house giving rise to fortune in its own Dasha or Bhukti. If the 
9th lord be a natural malefic, its presence in the 3rd 
house may harm brothers or may give some physical 
trouble to the native in ears, hands etc. but it will 
certainly give big leap in fortune through personal efforts. 
Malefics in the 3rd house give better prosperity than 
benefics in the same house. 


In the 4th house : 


lf the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 4th house in 
combination with the 4th lord and if Mars be powerful, the native 
may have increase of wealth through lands. If Venus be powerful, 
the native may be endowed with Vahanas and other comforts. 
This does not rule out the possibility of getting wealth through 
vehicles or vahanas. If Mercury be powerful, the native may get 
wealth through learning or trade and business. If Jupiter be strong 
and powerful, the native may attain the status of a ruler or a 
minister or a high official. If Saturn and Rahu are powerful, the 
native may be honoured by Mlechhas down-trodden and their 
leaders and the native may be fortunate. If, however, the 9th lord 
or the 4th lord and Karakas of the 4th house be weak in strength 
or if the 9th lord occupies evil house from lagna and the 4th lord 
in Navamsa Chart, good effects may be nullified to a great extent. 
All these results are possible in Dasha of the 9th lord. 


It will not be out of place to mention here that the 9th lord 
and the 4th lord by joining together in the 4th house will constitute 


Advanced Study -of Vimshottari Dasha 89 


Raja Yoga. Therefore, Dasha and Bhukti of the 9th lord and the 
4th lord may definitely elevate the rank and position of the native 
and will also make him more wealthy. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 5th house along 
with the 5th lord, the native may live a happy and fortunate life in 
Dasha of the 9th lord. He may be immensely benefitted through 
his father or a rich lord or some big person or some ruler. If the 
Oth lord be also associated with Lagnesh, the native may be himself 
a powerful lord or ruler. During the Dasha of the 5th lord also the 
native may enjoy a happy and fortunate life. The native himself 
oar his son in recognition of their merits may get 
government patronage and high rank under the 
government with all grandeur and respect. A weak 9th 
lord or 9th lord occupying evil house from Lagna or 5th lord in 
Navamsa Chart may tone down good effects. 


Readers may please note that the 5th lord and the 
9th lord whenever combined in same auspiciaus house 
may cause both Raja Yoga and Dhana Yoga in their 
periods. 5th lord is equated with the Prime Minister and the 9th 
lord is equated with the Minister by Sage Parashar. 


In the 6th hause : 


If the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 6th house along 
with the 6th lord and some benefic, the Dasha of the 9th lord will be 
a good one. His income will increase, source of income will be 
bettered by an appointment of power or elevation of a post in a 
court of justice. The native may protect many servants, will have 
many subordinates. He will possess much wealth which will grow 
further. He will be possessed of conveyances. He may sometimes 
inherit the wealth of his Dayadins (persons form of similar lineage). 
If Mars is in his own house the native may acquire wealth through 
lands. If Jupiter be strong, the native may have enormous riches. If 
Mercury is in combination with the 9th and the 6th lords the native 
may earn through learning or by being a scribe. If Rahu is in 
combination with them, the native will be a master of wealth earned 
in unscrupulous ways. If Saturn joins the 9th and 6th lords in the 


9U Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


6th house, the native may be a Magistate or a Judge or an 
officer endowed with power to punish or a gazetted officer 
or an emissary of the government. If the 9th lord be weak or 
if it occupies evil house in Navamisa Chart, effects may be feeble. 


As the 6th house is the 10th from the 9th house, presence of 
the 9th lord in the 6th house is upheld by Satyacharya. Readers, 
however, should bear in mind that the 9th lord in the 6th house 
may never give unobstructed success in any endeavour. 
It may better suit a destiny through court-channels, control 
of diseases, borrowing or lending machinery etc. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 7th house along 
with the 7th lord and also if the same has a benefic yoga, the native’s 
wealth and power will ever be increasing in Dashas of the 9th lord 
and planets associated with the 9th lord. As the 7th house denotes 
foreign travels also and also as the 9th lord too denotes foreign 
travels, the native may earn wealth in some foreign or distant 
lands. Combination of the 9th and the 7th lords, in the 7th house 
may further constitute a Raja Yoga. The native or his father may be 
a minister or the friend of a ruler in some foreign land and the 
wealth of the family may increase thereby in some cases. The 
native may be born in a rich family. He may have all sorts of 
comforts and luxuries from his birth. If the 9th lord be weak or if 
the 9th lord occupies an evil house from Lagna and the 7th lord in 
Navamsa Chart results may be poor. If Mars is also combined with 
the 9th lord, the native may acquire landed property in a foreign 
country or in a distant place. If there be a connection with Jupiter 
by joining or by being aspected, the native may amass much wealth 
during Dashas of the 9th and the 7th lords. If Venus joins them the 
native may get happiness from women, conveyances and comforts. 


As far as we know, presence of the 9th lord in the 7th 
house confers a touring job. It may give a rise in fortune 
after marriage. The native may earn a lot through trade 
and business. He may have rise in fortune through 
partnership or through wife. 7th lord and 9th lord combined in 
the 7th house must give phenomenal effort. Dasha of a planet posited 
in the 7th house must be giving wealth through personal efforts. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 91 


In the 8th house : 


If the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 8th house along 
with the lord of the 8th house, Dasha of the 9th lord may give evil 
results such as misfortune, death of father, poverty etc. If these 
planets be in some moveable sign, the native may be wandering 
in foreign or distant place without any gains. If the lord of the 9th 
house be weak, the native may suffer from poverty and lead a 
very miserable life. 9th lord in debilitation or in inimical sign or 
in combustion may give much sorrows and misery in its Dasha. 
Combination with benefics or even aspects of benefics may 
alleviate the troubles a good deal. 


It will not be out of place to mention here that Dasha of the 
8th lord in the 8th house conjoined with the 9th lord will give 
quite fortunate results like Dasha of a well-placed 9th lord while 
Dasha of the 9th lord will give sorrows and miseries like Dasha of 
the 8th lord. In case of Gemini Lagna 8th cum 9th lord Saturn in 
the 8th house, however, may be somewhat less troublesome in its 
Dasha though for this lagna too Saturn is more welcome in the 
9th house than in the 8th. 


In the 9th house : 


If the lord be placed in the 9th house along with benefics or if 
it be aspected by some benefic planet, Dasha of the 9th lord may 
give happy and fortunate results both to the native and his father. 
The native or his father may perform charitable deeds. Effects of 
Dasha may vary according to the nature of planets joining or 
aspecting the 9th lord. Malefic influences on the 9th lord may cause 
either financial stringency or financial set-back in Dasha of the 9th 
lord. The native may be unsteady in his mind and may also lose 
his father in some cases. If the 9th lord be weak in strength or if it 
is combust or if it occupies an evil house in Navamsa Chart the 
native may house a little wealth and quite a weak fortune. 


If Ketu or Rahu joins the 9th lord in the 9th house, 
Dasha of Ketu or Rohu will give fortunate results but 
Dasha of the 9th lord will give inauspicious results. 

In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 10th 
house along with the 10th lord and benefics, the native 


92 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


during the Dasha of the 9th lord will get wealth through 
service or otherwise under some government. He will 
have his name and fame spread far and wide. He may do 
charitable-deeds. He will be righteous in deeds. He may be 
associated with the administration of the country. If the 9th lord 
be devoid of strength the native may do mean acts. He may be 
disgraceful in his deeds. If the 9th lord be combined with 
malefics, he may move with wicked and degraded people and 
may perform evil deeds. He may even lose his job in the 
government if any. He may be in constant fear of being 
punished by the government and his cattle may perish, if 
any. If the 9th lord is in an evil house from Lagna or 10th lord in 
Navamsa Chart, it may give unpleasant results in its Dasha. 


If the 9th lord joins the 10th lord in the 10th house, it is 
a very powerful Raja Yoga. In such cases Dasha of the 9th lord 
is more prosperous than Dasha of the 10th lord in our view. 


In the 11th house : 


If the lord of the 9th house be placed in the 11th house along 
with the 11th lord, the native may have gains through his father 
or through business in Dasha of the 9th lord. The gains will be 
mostly through the nature of the planet that is combined with lord 
of the 9th house. If the planet be the Sun, the native himself or his 
father will wield power and influence. If Rahu be so, his father 
will be very famous and the native may have gains of wealth 
through his father. If the 9th lord be weak or if the 9th lord occupies 
an evil house from the Lagna and the 11th lord in Navamsa Chart, 
gains may be on a poor scale. If a natural malefic joins the 9th 
lord, the native may suddenly incur loss. 


Classical texts say that all planets in the 11th house are 
capable of giving affluence. Followers of Laghu-Madhya Parashari 
treat the 11th house and the 11th lord as the most evil one. 
Followers of Badhaka theory treat the 11th house and the 11th 
lord as obstructive ones only for natives born in Aries, Cancer, 
Libra and Capricorn Lagnas. Late R. Santhanam felt that planets 
in the 1ith house and the 11th lord gave both the best and the 
worst kind of results. 


Advanced Study of Vimshotiari Dasha 93 
In the 12th house : 


if the lord of the 9th house be posited in the 12th house along 
with the 12th lord, during Dasha of the 9th lord the wealth of the 
native may decrease. His father may have troubles of many kinds. 
By spending too much on charity or social obligations 
both the father and the native may experience financial 
hardship. \f a benefic joins the 9th lord in the 12th house the 
native may sometimes reside in a foreign place or in a distant 
place and may acquire wealth there. In some cases the native 
himself may not go to distant or foreign places but his father may 
go there and earn wealth. If karaka Sun be also combined with 
benefic, the native’s father will become famous and powerful. In 
many cases the native may also be saddled with ruling 
power or high position. !f karaka Sun be combined with a 
malefic, either the native or his father will undergo troubles. Ifthe 
9th lord occupies evil 6th, 8th or 12th house from Lagna or the 
12th lord in Navamsa Chart or also if the 9th lord be weak in 
strength, it may give mixed results in its Dasha. 


Presence of the 9th lord in the 12th house is a sign 
of misfortune for those who seek their fortune in their 
native place. It is more helpful for those who seek their 
fortune in some foreign land or in quite distant place or 
in foreign concerns or in corporate sector or in 
multinational concerns or hospital works or soclal 
services or jail department. A planet posited in the 
12th house may lose much of its functlonal beneficence 
but Karakatwa of a planet in the 12th house will get 
increased. Blessed are those who have the Sun in the 
10th house, Mercury in the 11th house, Venus in the 
12th house and Jupiter in Lagna. 


@4Y  CHAPTER-XII 


EFFECTS OF THE DASHA OF 
THE LORD OF THE 10TH 
HOUSE IN VARIOUS HOUSES 


In Hindu Astrology lords of trine are held as the most 
auspicious ones followed by the lords of Kendra. Ist lord, 5th lord 
and 9th lord are the three lords of trine. 5th lord is held to be more 
auspicious than the 1st lord while the 9th lord is held to be more 
auspicious than the 5th house. Of Kendra-lords, the 4th lord is 
more auspicious than the Ist lord. The 7th lord is more auspicious 
than the 4th lord while the 10th lord is more auspicious than the 
7th lord. Parashar says that lords of trine symbolise Goddess 
Lakshmi while lords of Kendra symbolise Lord Vishnu. Of trine- 
lords the 9th lord is the most auspicious one while the 10th lord is 
held to be the most auspicious of all the Kendra-lords. 1st lord or 
lagnesh is both a trine-lord and a Kendra-lord and, therefore, it is 
rightly claimed to be the most auspicious on the whole, by sensible 
astrologers. The 9th lord represents the merits of our past 
deeds. 8th lord represents the demerits of our past deeds. 
10th lord represents the trend of our deeds in the present 
birth. In common parlance 10th house and 10th lord 
represent profession, position, name and fame. What is 
represented by the 10th house and the 10th lord is more or less 
represented by the 7th house and the 7th lord as the 7th house 
being the 10th from the 10th house will also give similar results 
according to “Bhavat Bhavam” theory. 


Very few of us are aware of the Vedic way of looking at the 
problems. Vedic people viewed Astrology from three 
angles. In their view profession is to be guessed not 
only from the 10 house from Lagna but also from the 
2nd house from lagna which is the 10th house from the 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 95 


5th house, the 2nd Trikona and also from the 6th house 
which is the 10th from the 9th house, the 3rd Trikona. 
It follows therefrom that nature of profession has to be 
determined by a joint consideration of 10th house, 7th 
house, 2nd house and the 6th house and lords of these 
houses. Most of the Hindu texts admit the role of the 2nd and 
the 7th house and their lords in having their say in determination 
of profession but they have ignored the 6th house and the 6th lord 
in this regard. Rather, Western Astrologers have shown the 
wisdom of treating the 6th house as the house for services of 
all kinds or profession. Whether you are a public servant 
or a private servant, 6th house and 6th lord may have a 
stamp on you. Satyacharya had at least the wisdom to 
see that a native with his 9th lord in the 6th house may 
have his profession in a judicial court. Satyacharya 
had also the wisdom to see that the 3rd lord in the 6th 
house could make one employed in military services or 
could make one hold an authoritative power and post. 


Our classical texts say that planets in occupation of the 10th 
house from the birth ascendant, natal Moon and natal Sun, planets 
aspecting the aforesaid 10th house position of the 10th lord, dispositor 
of the 10th lord, navamsa occupied by the 10th lord, planets joining 
and aspecting the 10th lord, planets in 10th from Atma Karaka, 
planets in 10th in Karakamsa Chart and planets in 10th from 
Lagnapada and Karakas Mercury, Sun, Saturn or Jupiter may have 
bearings on determination of profession. With these discussions 
we now pass on to the effects of the 10th lord in various houses. 


In the Ist house : 


If the lord of the 10th house be placed in lagna along with 
Lagnesh and a benefic, the native in Dasha of the 10th lord may 
acquire name and fame, wield much power and influence and 
may hold a powerful post in the Government. He may become a 
minister or a highly placed official with much authority and power. 
He will perform charitable deeds and will be engaged in noble 
deeds. If the 10th lord be weak, results may be feeble and poor. If 
the 10th lord occupies evil house from Lagna or Lagnesh in 
Navamsa Chart, good results may be almost nil. If there is a 


96 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


malefic Yoga such as evil planets combining with the 10th lord 
there may be bad results or good results may be spoiled. The 
native may be put to disgrace or he may accept things donated in 
inauspicious ceremonies. If Saturn joins the 10th lord and if it is 
strong, the gift may be a buffalo. If it be the Sun, the gift may bea 
cat. If it be Mars, the gift may be a sheep. In modern context it 
may be said that the native may accept even a petty amount for 
his services. But if there be combination with a benefic planet, 
the gift may be quite a good one. 


In the 2nd house : 


If the lord of the 10th house be posited in the 2nd 
house along with the 2nd lord accompanied by a benefic Yoga, 
the native will acquire much wealth in Dasha of the 10th 
lord. He will be known to public as a very rich man. He will 
emerge as the chief and influential member of his family and his 
words will be honoured and respected. If there is also present a 
Raja Yoga in the horoscope, the native may get wealth through the 
government or through service under the government or through 
his profession. Mostly he will be halding a government 
job. He will have many obedient servants or subordinates 
who will carry aut his orders. He will support and maintain 
many persons and feed them. He will be very helpful to others. If 
the 10th lord be weak in strength or if the 10th lord occupies evil 
(6th, 8th or 12th) house from Lagna and the 2nd lord in Navamsa 
Chart, aforesaid good effects may be on ordinary or moderate scale. 
If malefics combine, the results may be bad. There may be troubles 
of various kinds to his family members. He may suffer from poverty 
and ill-repute. He may not get timely meals or may become notorious 
as a liar. Satyacharya says that the qualities and 
significations of the planets must be kept in mind while 
telling Dasha-effects and Bhukti-effects of such planets. 


As the 10th house and the 2nd house and their lords are 
capable of enthroning and saddling one with power, 10th lord in 
the 2nd house along with the 2nd lord must confer the benefits of 
Raja Yoga and Dhana Yoga together. As the 10th house is the 
10th from the first Trikona, that is, Lagna and also as the 2nd 
house is the 10th from the 2nd Trikona that is, the 5th house, 


Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 97 


presence of the 10th lord in the 2nd house must envisage 
a superior profession. Natural beneficence of planets can be 
accentuated or lowered down by their functional beneficence or 
maleficence. Malefics in the 2nd house may cause diseases in 
mouth or they may give eye-trouble or tooth-trouble. Barring Trika 
lords natural benefics in the 2nd house may give pleasant speech. 


In the 3rd house : 


If the lord of the 10th house be posited in the 3rd house along 
with the 3rd lord and some benefic, the native in Dasha of 
the 10th lord will achieve name and fame for his deeds. 
He may rise in his occupation or post. He may become 
famous for his musical talents or bravery and courage or any skill 
of hand. His brother, if any, may be renowned. Due 
consideration must be paid to the strength of karaka involved 
otherwise the results may go wrong. If the 10th lord be weak, 
results may be poor or on a small scale. If the 10th lord occupies 

. the 6th, 8th or 12th house from lagna and the 3rd lord in Navamsa 
- Chart, results may be similarly poor. 


Satyacharya considered the 3rd house to be an 
auspicious one. Mars is not only karaka of brothers but also of 
courage, power and heroic deeds all related to significations of 
the 3rd house. For these reasons Mars qualifies better for 
signification of the 3rd house. As Mercury rules over the 3rd 
Zodiacal sign, writing work, Shilpa, communication and skill of 
hand, Mercury also qualifies for signification of the 3rd house as 
far as intellectual and artistic pursuits are concerned. If Mars is 
karaka of brothers, Mercury is karaka of sisters. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the 10th house be posited in the 4th house along 
with the 4th lord the native in Dasha of the 10th lord may live 
with happiness. He may achieve fame through his landed property. 
If there is a benefic yoga he may have good income from agriculture. 
He may come from a respectable family. His mother may come 
from a remarkable family. lf there is a malefic yoga, it may cause 
harms, troubles and misfortue. Mixture of benefics and malefics 
may give mixed results. If the 10th lord be weak in strength or if it 


‘98 ‘ Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 


occupies an evil house from lagna or the 4th lord in Navamsa 
Chart, results may be poor ones. 


As the 10th lord in the 4th house will aspect the 10th house, 
Dasha of the 10th lord having Shuba Yoga may give high 
academic career if it coincides with student life. If it comes later 
on, it must give professional happiness. Such a position is 
highly conducive for farmers, builders, property-dealers, 
transport-owners, factory-owners, capitalists, public 
leaders, elected representatives etc. It may give power 
and position in Dasha of the 10th lord or in Dasha of the 
planet joining the 10th lord. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord of the 10th house be posited in the 5th 
house along with the 5th lord and if they have a benefic Yoga 
either through conjunction or aspect of some benefic or through 
Shubha Kartari Yoga, the native may be blessed with ruling 
powers in Dasha of the 10th lord or in Dasha of the 
planet joining the 10th lord. His ambitions and 
aspirations may be fulfilled. He may become a famous and 
wealthy personage. If these planets are posited in their friendly 
Rashis aforesaid results will mostly occur. If these planets be in 
inimical Rashis or if the 10th lord occupies evil 6th, 8th or 12th 
house from Lagna and the 5th lord in Navamsa Chart, effects 
may be poor and feeble ones. 


If the 10th lord joins the 5th lord in the 5th house, it will 
constitute Raja Yoga whose results may be primarily felt in Dasha 
of the 10th lord, if so possible or it may give its results in Dasha of 
the 5th lord. If evil lords join the 10th and 5th lords, Dashas of 
the 10th and 5th lords may give evil results or poor results but 
Dashas of evil lords will give auspicious results. 


In the 6th house : 


If the lord of the 10th house is posited in the 6th 
house along with the 6th lord, the native may become 
an officer in court of law or he may be employed in the 
army or police or he may be practising as a doctor in 
Dasha of the 10th lord or the 6th lord whichever is 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 99 


possible at the relevant age. His maternal uncle, if alive, is 
likely to be a powerful person wielding much authority. _ 


These good results may happen when involved planets are 
strong. If they be weak, the native may hold a small job in the 
government or in some embassy and he may take food in the 
house of downtrodden or degraded persons. He may suffer loss 
in business or trade on account of weak Satur in the 6th house. 


As far as we know, natural malefics in the 6th house give 
auspicious results. As the 6th house coincides with the 10th from 
the 9th house, the 3rd Trikona and also as the 6th house is the 9th 
from the 10th house, 10th lord in the 6th house must give 
auspicious results for those working in court of law, 
army, police, medical profession or in service of the 
government. Too much malefic influences on the 10th 
lord in the 6th house and on Mercury or Moon therein 
may make the native a Veteran criminal. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 10th house be posited in the 7th house along 
with the 7th lord, the native may be married in a good family or 
he may get employed in some foreign country or some 
distant place where he may become famous. His wife may be 
of help in his earnings. He may work in transport or touring 
department. He may go on pilgrimages. If there is a malefic 
Yoga, the native may suffer from poverty or he may marry in a 
low or ignoble family or his wife may be separated from him. All 
these good or bad effects may occur in Dasha of the 10th lord or 
the 7th lord possible at the relevant age. 


The 7th house being the 10th from the 10th house, 
10th lord in the 7th house will definitely give good results 
in matter of profession unless it be badly afflicted or devoid 
of strength. For those in trade and business or in any kind 
of partnership there could be much scope for rise. For 
those in services it may give long tours, foreign travels, 
hard and strenuous duties with proper remuneration. 


In the 8th house : 
If the lord of the 10th house be placed in the 8th 


100 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


house along with the 8th lord the native may be holding 
a lowly job or may do wicked, vicious and bad deeds. 
If afflicted by malefics, the native may lose his job or 
his occupation may be endangered. His agriculture, if any, 
may be ruined or he may incur losses through his lands. In student 
life it may cause obstacles to higher education. He may suffer 
losses through vehicles and conveyances or his vahanas may be 
ruined. If there be benefic yogas, troubles will come but they will 
be averted. The native may not lose his job. Obstacles and 
damages may not go out of proportion. Benefic combinations 
may give good results but malefic combinations may give evil 
results. Whenever the 10th lord combines with the evil 
8th lord, Dasha of the 10th lord becomes inauspicious 
but Dasha of the 8th lord becomes auspicious. Benefic 
Yogas enhance good results and diminish evil results. Malefic 
Yogas diminish good results and enhance evil results. 


In the 9th house : 


if the lord of the 10th house be placed in the 9th house along 
with the 9th lord and if Jupiter be weak there will be obstacles in 
performance of duties by the native in Dasha of the 10th lord. If 
on the other hand Jupiter be strong, the native will certainly 
perform good deeds, will be a rich person, will be famous, will be 
loved and honoured by rulers, will be happy by his appointment 
and his father may be an illustrious person. If Mars is powerful, 
his father may have enormous lands free from tax. If Jupiter is 
powerful, his father may rise to a high position in his life. If Venus 
is powerful, the native may have jewels and conveyances. If 
Mercury be powerful, the native may get good education. If the 
Moon be powerful, the native may be a treasurer or a cultivator of 
fields or gardens. If the Sun be powerful, the native will be a 
government servant or a physician. If Saturn be strong, the native 
will be a servant or a subordinate. 


Although 9th and 10th lord combination in the 9th house 
will technicaliy constitute a powerful Raja Yoga it will infact be 
not as powerful as formed in the 10th house because 10th lord in 

12th from the 10th house will weaken the strength of Raja Yoga 
‘ in case of 9th-10th lord combine in the 9th house but 9th lord in 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 101 


2nd from 9th house joining 10th lord therein will make a very powerful 
Raja Yoga in deed. : 


In the 10th house or 11th house : 


If the lord of the 10th house be in the 10th house or if the 
lord of the 10th house be in the 11th house along with benefics 
and the 11th lord, the native will be highly fortunate and will have 
Raja Yoga in both circumstances in Dasha of the 10th lord. He 
will have a high status and position in life. He will be honoured 
and held in high esteem. His fame will spread. He will have a 
large retinue of army. He will be interested in charitable 
undertakings and institutions. If the lord of the 10th house be 
weak, results will be poor. The native may have poor gains in his 
occupation of business. He may get poor promotions in case of 
service. If the 10th lord be Mars, the native may get wealth through 
taxes and landed property. If it be Jupiter, the native may rise to 
a high position in his profession. If it be Venus, the native may 
have conveyances, valuables and comforts. If it be Mercury, the 
native may pass his examinations meritoriously. Satyacharya’s 
versions about the Sun, the Moon and Saturn are since missing 
from the original text. Aforesaid results may be considerably 
spoiled if there is a malefic yoga to the 10th lord by conjunction 
and aspect or if the 10th lord occupies evil 6th, 8th or 12th house 
in Navamsa Chart. 


It is obvious that Satyacharya like Varaha Mihira, 
Prithuyasas and Kalyan Varma did not treat the 3rd and 
the 11th house and their lords as evil ones as treated by 
followers of Laghu-Madhya Parashari. 


In the 12th house : 


If the lord of the 10th house be in the 12th house along with 
the 12th lord and has also a malefic Yoga, the native may suffer 
disgrace in Dasha of the 10th lord. He may be demoted in 
his job ar may even be removed from service in case of 
heavy affliction of the 10th lord. There may be losses in his 
business and his occupation may suffer set-back in Dasha of the 
10th lord. Benefic Yogas make one a good priest. Malefic Yogas 
may make one follow a low profession. If the 10th lord be a 


102 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


natural malefic, its presence in the 12th house may 
make one wander far and wide aimlessly and 
unprofitably. 

Satyacharya treated the 7th house and its lord as 
mainly responsible for foreign travel and foreign 
residence but Yavanacharya treated the 12th house and 
12th lord as more responsible for foreign connection. 
Amongst the planets, the Moon, Venus, Saturn and Rahu 
rule over foreign connections. The 10th lord in the 12th 
house is detrimental for profession in one’s homeland 
but it is quite beneficial for those working in foreign 
land or at distant places, it is suitable for thase working 
in multinational concerns, hospitals, social 
organisations, charitable institutions, jail department, 
yogic exercises, development and welfare schemes of 
the government or Non-government Organisations 
(N.G.Os). 


: CHAPTER-XIII 
EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 
11TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES 


Satyacharya followed by Jeeva Sharma, Devala, Varaha 
Mihira, Kalyan Varma, Prithuyasa, Gunakara, Bhattotapala and 
many others treated the 11th house and the 11th lord as auspicious 
ones. Bhrigu, Lomasha, Garga, Yavanacharya, Meena Raja, 
Sphujidhwaja and others also treated the 11th house and its lord 
as auspicious ones. While discussing Maha Yoga Mantreshwar, 
treated the 11th lord as good as Kendra-lord or Trikona-lord or 2nd 
lord. An exchange of house between the 2nd lord and the 11th lord 
is both a Maha Yoga and a Dhana Yoga. Krishna Murti held the 
11th house and its lord as the most auspicious one in a horoscope. 
A careful perusal of Brihat Parashar Hora Shastra leaves us in ne 
doubt that Parashar shared similar views while discussing effects 
of planets in the 11th house and effects of 11th lord in various 
houses. Parashar in his discussion on Dasha Phala maintains 
everywhere that Dasha of a planet in the 11th house from Janme 
Lagna, Chandra Lagna, Ravi Lagna, Hora Lagna, Atma Karake 
and Karakamsa Lagna will be auspicious. Parashar further saic 
that sub-period of a planet placed in the 11th house from Janme 
Lagna or major lord will always give auspicious results. Therefore. 
there is nothing so in Parashari Hora to suggest that a planet in the 
11th house will give inauspicious results in its Dasha or Bhukti. As 
regards effects of the 11th lord, Ududaya Pradeepa or Laghu- 
Madhya Parashari has treated the 11th lord as the most inauspicious 
one. Taking cue from Laghu Madhya Parashari in some editions 
of Brihat Parashar Hora Shastra it is said that Dasha of the 11tt 
lord may give hurdles and diseases but in other editions of BPHS + 
is said that Dasha of the 11th lord as a rule may give profitable 
results. Rather, Badhaka concept says that the 11th house anc 


104 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


11th lord are Badhakas for the natives bom in cardinal or moveable 
signs. There are some valid reasons for holding the 11th lord as 
Badhakas for natives born in moveable Lagnas. In case of moveable 
Aries Lagna 10th cum 11th lord Saturn treats Lagnesh Mars as its 
enemy. In case of moveable Cancer Lagna 4th cum 11th lord Venus 
not only treats Lagnesh Moon as its enemy but also that it suffers 
from Kendradhipatya Dosha. In case of moveable Lagna Libra 
11th lord Sun and Lagnesh Venus are bitter enemies of each other. 
In case of Capricom Lagna Lagnesh Saturn treats 4th cum 11th 
lord Mars as its enemy. For these reasons 11th lord in these cases 
may act as Badhakas. 


We have gone in depth to examine the whole issue. From 
view point of Vedic Astrology 11th house is a house of 
gains from the Ist trine (Lagno), it is a house of partner 
(7th) from the 2nd trine (5th house) ; it is a house of 
prowess (3rd) from the 3rd trine (9th house). From Vedic 
point of view, therefore, the 11th house can never be 
deemed to be inauspicious one. |n our view Neo-Parasharians 
seem to have treated the 11th house as inauspicious for some other 
good reasons. Of the three evil houses viz. the 6th, 8th and 12th 
the, 11th house is the 6th from the 6th house and the 
12th from the 12th house and therefore, from the point 
of view of “Bhavat Bhavam” the 11th house embodies evils 
of two evil houses viz. the 6th house and the 12th house. As per the 
same “Bhavat Bhavam” the 3rd house from Lagna is the 8th from 
8th. Hence the 3rd house is held to be lesser evil than the 11th 
house which is held to be evil mostly by Neo-Parasharians. 


Seeing complexities of the situation and on observance of 
facts late R. Santhanam said that the planets in the 11th house 
and the 11th lord in their Dasha or Bhukti were capable of giving 
the best followed by the worst or the worst followed by the best 
results. As the 11th house falls in 8th from the 4th house, we have 
reasons to believe that the 11th lord or planets in the 11th house 
in their periods may harm prospects of the 4th house in some 
way. It may harm education or agriculture or landed property or 
vahana or happiness or patrimony or mass popularity. 


After aforesaid discussion, we now proceed to discuss effects 


Advanced Study ot Vimshottan Vasna 105 


of Dasha of the 11th lord in various houses as pointed out by 
Satyacharya. 


In the 1st house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in Lagna along with 
Lagnesh, the native will always have gains, particularly in Dasha 
and Bhukti of the 11th and the Ist lord. If the 11th lord be 
strong the native may have promotions in his profession 
and business in Dasha or Bhukti of the 11th lord. The 
extent of good effects will depend on the strength and nature of 
the planets and Rashis involved. If the 11th lord be weak in strength 
or if it occupies an evil house in Navamsa Chart good effects may 
be considerably reduced. 


In the 2nd house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 2nd house 
along with the 2nd lord and if the 11th lord be posited in its exalted 
navamsa, the native may be a master of crores of rupees in Dashas 
of the 11th and 2nd lords. If there be a malefic Yoga or if the 11th 
lord occupies an evil house from Lagna and the 2nd lord, results 
may be.poor and the native may have to face difficulties. 


In the 3rd house, : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 3rd house along 
with the 3rd lord and benefic planets, the native may have large 
profits during the Dasha of the 11th lord and sometimes he may 
have also gains from his brother at the commencement of the 
Dasha. If there is a malefic yoga, the good effects may be 
destroyed and there may occur only bad effects. If there be benefic 
Yogas, good results may be increased. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 4th 
house along with the 4th lord, there may be gains through 
mother, patrimony, lands, buildings, conveyances, 
education and agriculture. The means of gains can be inferred 
through the nature of the planets involved. For example, Jupiter 
may give gains from sugarcane; Mars may give gains from 
agriculture; Venus may give gains from fruit bearing trees; Saturn 


106 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


and Rahu may confer gains from Ragi; Mercury may confer 
gains from education and the Moon may confer gains from 
green vegetables. Benefic combinations with the lord of the 11th 
house may confer gains through jewellery etc. Malefic 
combinations may mostly cause obstacles and ruin to the trade 
and business during the period of the 11th lord. Aforesaid 
interpretations of planets are applicable to primitive and 
undeveloped economy. For example, the Sun as the 11th lord 
may confer gains from the goverment, managerial post, gold, 
medical profession, patrimony, paternal jobs etc. The Moon as 
the 11th lord may confer gains from public office, mother, 
hydraulics, chemicals etc. Mars may confer gains from police or 
military services, surgery, electrical or power energy, factories etc. 
Mercury as the 11th lord may confer gains from commerce, trade, 
banking, Shilpa, technology, medicine, engineering etc. Jupiter 
as the 11th lord may confer gains from political post, high offices, 
banking, commerce, judgeship, legal advice, conselling etc. Venus 
as the 11th lord may confer gains from diplomacy, commerce, 
trade, transport, fine arts, luxury goods, cinema, T.V., fashion 
show, alcohol, chemical goods. Saturn may confer gains from 
elected posts, service, profession, trade unionism etc. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 5th house along 
with the lord of the 5th house the native may have gains from a 
rich friend or some V.1.P. or from the government. He may have 
gains through his sons or through some divine grace. He may 
have gains through trading in precious gems or he may come 
across a treasure and thereby become rich or by performing 
voyages on the seas to different countries he may earn much 
wealth or he may trade in grains and seeds and thereby become 
rich. If there is a benefic Yoga, aforesaid good results will mostly 
supervene in the Dasha of 11th lord, Malefic Yogas on the other 
hand may give sudden set-back in Fortune through past karma. 


In the 6th house : 


if the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 6th house along 
with the lord of the 6th house, the native may have gains through 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 107 


Dayadeens, law-suits and maternal uncle in Dasha of the. 11th 
lord. He may do courageous acts and overcome his enemies. 
Good effects may be considerably reduced if the lord of the 11th 
house be under influence of malefic yogas. Much will depend on 
the nature of the planets associated, with the 11th lord and the 
position of Karaka Jupiter. 


In the 7th house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 7th house along 
with the lord of the 7th house, the native may get wealth through 
his wife or in a foreign country or at a distant place or through 
some embassy or by influencing people and other women in Dasha 
of the 11th lord or planets associated with the 11th lord. lf Venus 
be placed between Mars and Saturn the native may earn money 
by allowing his wife to please strangers. If there be evil influences 
on the 11th lord gains may be quite poor ones. Presence of the 
11th lord in the 7th house in our view may confer gains also from 
trade and business, partnership and war industry. Further, dasha 
of a planet like the 11th lord placed in the 7th house must give 
high earnings by dint of personal efforts. 


In the 8th house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 8th house along 
with the 8th lord, the native may be in great distress in Dasha or 
Bhuktis of the 11th lord. He may be involved in debts. He may 
earn through wrongful deeds. He may suffer from poverty. He 
may not have peace of mind. His mind will be wavering and 
unsteady. He may have company of evil and low-minded persons 
and may have some small benefits from them too. Benefic 
combinations may reduce the evil results. If the lord of the 11th 
house be weak or if it occupies evil house in Navamsa Chart the 
native may sustain losses in trade or in his profession. He may be 
involved in litigation and debts may increase. Dasha of the 11th 
lord must be troublesome but Dasha of the 8th lord will be smooth 
and gainful if the 8th lord joins the 11th lord in the 8th house. 


In the 9th house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 9th house with 
the 9th lord, the native may have gains through his father or a 


108 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


rich person or a ruler. If the lord of the 9th house be exalted, the 
native or his father may become rich and powerful through their 
profession in Dasha of the 11th lord. As the 11th lord in the 9th 
house will be in the 11th from the 11th house it must confer a 
gainful fortune. Fortune contains both wealth and power as per 
Parashari Hora. Malefic Yogas, however, may give set-backs in 
fortune. 


In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 10th house 
along with the 10th lord, there may be prosperity in the native’s 
trade and business or he may prosper in his profession in Dasha 
or Bhuktis of the 11th lord. If there be benefic combinations there 
will be much gain of wealth in Dasha or Bhuktis of the 11th lord 
according to the nature of planet owning the 11th house. Jupiter 
as the 11th lord may give affluence through appointment on a 
high post or through religious rites, teachings etc. Venus as the 
11th lord may give wealth through vehicles and conveyances. 
Mercury as the 11th lord may give wealth through trade and 
business. Gains have to be determined according to the nature of 
planets involved. Malefic Yogas or weak 11th lord may reduce 
good effects. Benefic yogas may enhance good effects. 


In the 11th house : 


If the 11th lord be posited in the 11th house in its own sign 
or in exaltation sign the native will have much profits and gains of 
wealth in Dasha of the 11th lord. His elder brother, if any, may 
also become a prominent person. If Mars be the 11th lord, the 
native may have gains through landed property. The Sun as the 
11th lord indicated gains from father or the government. The 
Moon as the 11th lord makes his business flourish. Mercury as 
the 11th lord gives wealth through education or commerce and 
trade. Jupiter as the 11th lord gives wealth through employment 
and teaching. Venus as the 11th lord gives wealth through wine, 
women or vehicles. Saturn as the 11th lord gives wealth through 
fire-wood, stones, coal etc. Malefic influences may mar good 

»effects. Benefic influences may enhance good effects. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 169 


In the 12th house : 


If the lord of the 11th house be posited in the 12th house 
along with the lord of the 12th house, there may be hindrances or 
difficulties in realisation of the goals and objects of the native in 
Dasha of the 11th lord. His elder brother, if any, may also undergo 
sufferings. Benefic combinations and aspects may alleviate the 
evil results or moderate them. Malefic yogas may accentuate the 
evil results. 


While Dasha of the 11th lord will give bad results, Dasha of 
the 12th lord will give good and clean results in the aforesaid 
conditions. 


CHAPTER-XIV 


EFFECTS OF DASHA OF THE 
12TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES 


Our sages visualised only three houses namely the 6th, 8th 
and 12th houses as evil ones and named them “Trika Houses.” 
Even in Western Astrology these three houses are only held to be 
evil ones. Lords.of these three houses are held to be functional 
malefics. Satyacharya, Jeeva Sharma, Devala, Gunakara, Varaha 
Mihira, Kalyana Varma, Prithuyasas, Yavanacharya and others 
too followed sages in this regard. Concept of “Trishadaya” is a 
subsequent innovation of followers of Parashar and we have dealt 
with it earlier while discussing effects of the 3rd and the 11th 
lords. 


From the point of view of Vedic yardstick 12th house occupies 
evil 12th from the 1st Trikona (Lagna) and evil 8th from the 2nd 
Trikona (5th house) but auspicious 4th house from the 3rd Trikona 
(9th house) in the same way as the 8th house occupies the evil 
8th from the 1st Trikona (Lagna) and evil 12th from the 3rd Trikona 
(9th house). Rather, the 6th house occupies only evil 6th from the 
1st Trikona (lagna) but it occupies auspicious 2nd house from 
the 2nd Trikona (5th house) and auspicious 10th house from the 
3rd Trikona (9th house). Of Trikona houses 5th is stronger than 
the 1st and the 9th is stronger than the 5th. From Vedic point 
of view the 8th is the evil-most followed by the 12th 
house. From Vedic point of view the 6th house is lesser 
evil than the 12th and the 8th house. Of the 6th, 8th 
and 12th houses, the 6th house alone is an upachaya 
house. 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th houses are the upachaya 
houses. Upachaya houses give one better material 
prosperity. From Vedic point of view the 8th lord is the 


Advanced Study of Vimshotiari Dasha lit 


most detrimental, the 12th lord is lesser detrimental 
and the 6th lord is the least detrimental of these three. 


A section of astrologers viewed the 12th lord on par with 
natural malefics when they said that a native may lose a relation or 
a part of his body if the same is occupied or aspected by at least 
three of them viz. the 12th lord, Rahu, Saturn and the Sun. These 
astrologers have not included Mars as separator for the reasons 
best known to them though Mars and Rahu are well-known for 
their destructive notoriety of separation and annihilation. 


Majority of astrologers view the 12th and the 2nd 
lords as neutrals. According to them, the 12th or the 
2nd lord generally gives good or bad results as per the 
other house held by it. From this viewpoint 12th lord Moon in 
case of Leo Lagna and 12th lord Sun in case of Virgo Lagna may 
behave like true neutrals. In case of Aries, Gemini, Libra, 
Sagittarius, and Aquarius Lagnas the 12th lord will give chiefly 
auspicious results as in these cases the 12th lord owns auspicious 
Sth, 5th or 1st house also but in case of remaining five lagnas, viz. 
Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces 12th lord will give 
quite evil results for more than one reason. 


12th house rules over losses, expenditure, misery, poverty, 
enemities, bondages, encounters, sins, left eye, feet, comforts of 
-bed, salvation etc. according to Satyacharya. But 12th house 
also has positive aspects as it rules over hospitals, jails, external 
affairs, foreign concerns, foreign travels, foreign residence, social 
services, development works, NGOs, multinational companies, 
navy etc. Satyacharya treated the 7th house as house of journeys, 
change of residence, foreign travels and foreign connections 
but Yavanacharya and most of our astrologers have ascribed the 
12th house to be mainly the house of foreign connections and 
the 7th or 9th house as the secondary house for foreign purposes. 
Normally, 12th lord in auspicious houses will obstruct or damage 
the significance of the house occupied and aspected by it in its 
Dasha. It may give good results only when it occupies evil 12th, 
8th or 6th house. Benefic Yogas may diminish impacts of evils. 
Malefic Yogas on the other hand may accentuate impact of 
probable evils. With these general instructions we now enter into 


112 Advanced Siudy of Vimshottari Dasha 
effects of Dasha of the 12th lord in occupation of various houses. 


In the Ist house and the 7th house : 


Satyacharya’s description of the effects of the 12th lord in 
Lagna is missing from the text. Brihat Parashar Hora Shastra 
says that the 12th lord in Lagna or 7th house gives almost the 
same result. We may, therefore, see what Satyacharya says about 
effects of the 12th lord in the 7th house and treat that it may give 
similar results in lagna. Satyacharya says that the 12th lord in 
the 7th house along with the 7th lord may cause evil to the native 
or his wife including fear of death to them in Dasha of the 12th 
lord. The native may live for some time in a foreign place or ata 
distant place. Benefic Yogas may give money, wealth and 
comforts. Malefic Yogas may give sorrows, uneasiness, 
unprofitable wanderings, sickness and slander to the native and 
his wife. 


In the 2nd house : 


If the 12th lord be posited in the 2nd house along with the 
2nd lord and malefics, there will be quarrels in the family of the 
native and he may not get good and timely meals in Dasha of the 
12th lord. Rather, he may take prohibited food. He may speak 
harshly and may be bad in his conduct. He may suffer from eye- 
diseases or mouth-diseases or diseases of teeth. Benefic Yogas 
may mitigate or moderate the evil results. 


In the 3rd house : 


If the lord of the 12th house be posited in the 3rd house along 
with the 3rd lord, the native’s expenses may go on ever-increasing 
in Dasha of the 12th lord and his brother, if any, may be ruined. 
Benefic combinations may reduce the evil results or may give 
mixed results. If the 12th lord with a benefic yoga be also 
combined with the 6th and 8th lords, Dasha of the 12th lord may 
give happiness, comforts and conveyances. 


In the 4th house : 


If the lord of the 12th house be posited in the 4th house along 
with the 4th lord and be combined with benefic planets, the native 
may lead a happy life and he may have lands, conveyances, 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 113 


comforts etc. in Dasha of the 12th lord. If there be combinations 
with malefic planeis, bad resuslts may occur. His mother may 
have troubles and difficulties. There may be troubles to his lands, 
agriculture and conveyances. If there be both benefic and malefic 
influences, results, may be mixed ones. 


In the 5th house : 


If the lord of the 12th house be posited in the 5th house along 
with the 5th lord a child may be born to the native in Dasha of the 
12th lord but there may also octur some bad results to him. The 
native may lose favour of some noble or rich man. He may lose 
divine favour and government patronage too. His intellectual 
faculties may suffer in some cases. Combinations with benefic 
planets may ward off much of the evil results. If there be a malefic 
combination, children may not be born to him or there may be 
serious troubles to his children who may even go astray and take 
to bad ways. Also the native may lose favour or friendship of 
some rich person and may incur his wrath or he may lose favour 
of the government and incur her displeasure or he may lose divine 
favour. Also, his father may have difficulties and troubles. The 
native may have troubles due to disturbance in his country and 
his profession too may suffer. 


In the 6th house : 


If the lord of the 12th house be posited in the 6th 
house along with the 6th lord Dasha of the 12th lord 
may give auspicious results like gain of power and 
position and a happy life. These results may be augmented if 
the 8th lord also joins the 12th lord and the 6th lord in the 6th 
house owing to a perfect Vipareet Raja Yoga. Although benefic 
combinations cancel impact of Vipreet Raja Yoga 
Satyacharya shared the contrary view that it may augment 
the good results. Satyacharya, however, is right in his stand 
that 12th lord in evil 6th, 8th or 12th house in Navamsa Chart 
may augment good results. 


In the 8th house : 


If the lord of the 12th house be posited in the 8th house along 
with the 8th lord, the native may have pleasures and pains in 


114 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


equal degrees in Dasha of the 12th lord. If there is a benefic 
yoga, there may be happiness. If the 6th lord also joins the 12th 
and 8th lords in the 8th house Dasha of the 12th lord may give 
quite auspicious results such as rise in profession and career owing 
to formation of Vipareet Raja Yoga. If the 12th lord occupies evil 
house in Navamsa Chart, it must be augmenting good results. 


In the 9th house : 


{f the lord of the 12th house be posited in the 9th house along 
with the 9th lord, native’s fortune may be ordinary and he may 
get quite moderate results in Dasha of the 12th lord. The native 
may spend money on good deeds but there may be danger to his 
profession if malefics join the 12th lord in the 9th house or if lone 
12th lord occupies the 9th house. Benefic combinations may go 
a long way in mitigating the evil results. 


In the 10th house : 


If the lord of the 12th house be posited in the 10th house along 
with the 10th lord, the native’s patrimony may be ruined in Dasha 
of the 12th lord though the native may incur expenses on charity. 
Benefic combinations may cause expenses on virtuous deeds. 


As far as we understand lone 12th lord in the 9th or 10th or 
any good house may harm the prospect of the house of its 
occupation in its own Dasha or in Dasha of its dispositor. If the 
12th lord joins a functional benefic like the 9th or 10th lord, Dasha 
of the functional benefic becomes bad and Dasha of the 12th lord 
becomes auspicious. 


In the 11th house : 


!f the lord of the 12th house be placed in the 11th house 
along with the 11th lord, there may be definite obstacles to gain 
and affluence in Dasha of the 12th lord. If the 12th lord is a 
natural benefic, expenditure will be in good ways and if there is a 
malefic yoga, expenses may be over bad deeds or on account of 
enemies. Loss of wealth may be caused as per nature of the 
planet being the 12th lord. Wealth may be diminished on account 
of quarrels with elder brother or on account of misunderstandings 
in trade and business. There may be both gains and losses 
equalised on the whole. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 115 


In the 12th house : 


If the lord of the 12th house be posited in the 12th 
house it may give auspicious results of Vimala Yoga 
formed by it. If it is combined with and aspected by benefics, 
the native may acquire wealth but may have little expenses in 
Dasha of the 12th lord. Rather, he will have heavy expenses in 
Dasha of the benefic planet joining the 12th lord. If Lagnesh be 
powerful, the native’s income will be more than his expenditure. 
He may have comforts of bed. He will be happy otherwise too. 
He will pursue a good and virtuous profession. He may live a 
saintly and philosophical life. If Lagnesh be weak and 
malefics occupy the 12th hause the native must suffer 
from poverty, misfortunes and indebtedness in Dasha of 
the 12th lord. 


In our view Dasha of the 12th lord posited in the 
12th hause may give wonderful success in matters of 
foreign connection of any kind, in matters of hospital 
or jail assignments, in social services, in philanthropic 
activities in multinational concerns, export and import 
business, NGOs. etc. This is the positive side of the picutre. It 
is the view of Satyacharya that the effects of the 12th lord in 
different houses should be determined keeping in mind the 
following points : 


(a) If a natural benefic rules over the 12th house it will give 
better results than a natural malefic owning the 12th house. 


(b) If the lord of the 12th house also owns a benefic house 
such as Trikona or Kendra house it must give better results. If it 
owns another house which is a functional malefic (6th or 8th), it 
must give quite bad results. If it owns another house which is 
Leena house (2nd, 3rd or 11th house) it must give mixed results. 


(c) Ifthe lord of the 12th house is under influence of benefics 
by conjunction or by aspect or by being flanked by benefics it 
must give good results. Malefic influences in similar way may 
give bad results. Mixed influences may give mixed results. 


(d) Dispositor of the 12th lord may also exercise veiled 
control over the 12th lord. 


116 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


It is the view of a reasonable section of astrologers that if a 
planet owns both an evil house and a Trikona its evil 
lordship is mitigated to a great extent but never 
completely wiped out such as 9th cum 12th lord Jupiter and 
1st cum 8th lord Mars in case of Aries Lagna, 5th cum 12th lord 
Venus and 8th cum 9th lord Saturn in case of Gemini Lagna, 1st 
cum 6th lord Venus in case of Taurus Lagna, 6th cum 9th lord 
Jupiter in case of Cancer Lagna, 5th cum 8th lord Jupiter in case 
of Leo Lagna, 5th cum 6th lord Saturn in case of Virgo Lagna, 
Ist cum 8th lord Venus in case of Libra Lagna, Ist cum 6th lord 
Mars in case of Scorpio Lagna, 5th cum 12th lord Mars in case of 
Sagittarius Lagna, 6th cum 9th lord Mercury in case of Capricom 
Lagna, 5th cum 8th lord Mercury and Ist cum 12th lord Saturn in 
case of Aquarius Lagna. 


We would like to clarify that 12th lord in the 12th house 
causes Vimala Yoga which makes one wealthy and frugal 
in expenses. The native may be happy, self-dependent, 
meritful, famous and engaged in good deeds. Mantreshwar 
said that the 12th lord in any of the 6th , 8th or 12th house 
combined with or aspected by inauspicious planets will give © 
auspicious results of Vimala Yoga but majority of astrologers 
accepted the former view that 12th lord only in 12th house 
constituted Vimala Yoga. 


Mantreshwar similarly said that the 8th lord in any of the 
6th, 8th or 12th house will constitute Sarala Yoga though majority 
of astrologers held the 8th lord only in the 8th house as causing 
Sarala Yoga. This yoga makes one long-lived, fearless, famous, 
conqueror, successful in endeavours, simple, straight forward and 
endowed with wealth, education and sons. 

Mantreshwar similarly held the 6th lord in any of the 6th, 8th 
or 12th house as causing Harsha Yoga while majority of 
astrologers held that 6th lord in the 6th house only would be 
constituting Harsha Yoga. This yoga makes one fortunate, happy, 
victorious over hurdles and enemies but afraid of wrongful deeds. 


CHAPTER-XV ©? 
SOME MORE POINTS 


Satyacharya’s general instructions about Maha Dasha and 
Antar Dasha discussed in early part of this book should be 
meticulously studied by readers. Apart from following such 
instrucions Satyacharya advised the readers to supplement their 
knowledge with a few important transits of Jupiter, Rahu and 
Saturn as mentioned hereunder : 


Effects of Transit of Jupiter on periods 


(1) When Jupiter traverses Trikona signs from its radical 
sign the native may be blessed with wealth and children. He may 
perform ceremonies. 


(2) When Jupiter passes through trine signs from the radical 
position of Venus, the native may lead a happy life. 


(3) When Jupiter passes through the trine signs (1st, 5th and 
9th) from the position of Saturn, the native may get promotions, 
money and favour of the government. 


(4) When Jupiter is in trine (1st, 5th and 9th) from the radical 
position of Rahu, the native may win in litigations and may 
perform marriages etc. in his house and may get benefitted from 
low-caste people. 


(5) When Jupiter transits triangular signs from the radical 
position of Mercury, the native may have success in education or 
profession and business. 


(6) The auspicious effects of Jupiter will be maximun,, if it is 
powerful in strength and passes through auspicious stars 2nd, 
4th, 6th 8th and 9th from Janma Nakshatra. 

(7) If Jupiter be weak in strength and passes through 
inauspicious stars (3rd, 5th and 7th stars) from Janma Nakshatra 
even Jupiter transitting favourable house may not be able to confer 
good results in reality and one may have to content with a mere 


118 Advanced Study of Vimshotiari Dasha 
talk about good results. 


Transit effects of Rahu and Saturn 


(1) If Rahu is placed in a bad star (3rd, 5th and 7th star) at 
birth, the native may perform funeral ceremonies when Saturn 
passes through trine (1, 5 and 9) signs counted from the birth 
position of Rahu or the native may experience troubles from rulers, 
enemies, thieves, diseases or poison at that time. 

(2) If Saturn and Rahu be placed in bad stars (3rd, 5th and 
7th stars) in natal chart, bad results must occur during periods of 
such Saturn and Rahu and also when some malefic transits 
through trine (1st, 5th and 9th) from radical position of such Rahu 
and Saturn. 


CHAPTER-XVI 
REMEDIAL GUIDELINES 


In actual practice we deal with planets who own two signs 
in most cases. The Sun and the Moon each own only one sign 
and, therefore, they may rule only one kind of Bhava or House 
which may be either auspicious or inauspicious for any Lagna. 
The Sun may give auspicious results in its Dasha for natives born 
in Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Scorpio and Sagittarius Lagnas 
whereas it may give inauspicious results in its Dasha in case of 
natives born in Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Capricorn, Aquarius and 
Pisces Lagnas. The Moon may give auspicious results in its Dasha 
in case of natives born in Aries, Cancer, Libra, Scorpio and Pisces 
Lagnas whereas it may give inauspicious results in its Dasha in 
case of natives born in Taurus, Gemini, Leo, Virgo, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn and Aquarius Lagnas. Experience, however, says that 
the Sun and the Moon are not as inauspicious as other planets 
even for unfavourable Lagnas for one reason or the other in most 
cases. For Gemini and Virgo Lagnas the Sun is only moderately 
bad or unfavourable as the Sun and Mercury are more friendly 
than inimical. In case of Pisces Lagna the Sun being a close 
friend of Jupiter may give less unfavourable results. In case of 
Capricorn Lagna the Sun being free from stigma of 8th lordship 
acquires little evil potentiality whereas in case of Aquarius Lagna 
the Sun is a giver of wealth and livelihood, though it may sometimes 
cause fear of death too. It is only in case of Libra Lagna 
that the Sun may prove to be the evil-most in our view. 


As regards the Moon, it is well-known that Mercury, Venus 
and Saturn are not on good terms with the Moon but the Moon 
never treats them as its enemy. Therefore, Moon in its Dasha 
may not cause much harm to natives born in Taurus, Gemini, 
Virgo, Libra, Capricorn and Aquarius Lagnas. Even for natives 
born in Sagittarius and Leo Lagnas the Moon in its Dasha may 
not give so unfavourable results. In our view Dasha of Moon 


120 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


could be more unfavourable in case of natives born in 
Capricorn and Aquarius Lagnas. 


Natives born in Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Scorpio and 
Sagittarius may wear Ruby or Spinel or Ruby-Star or Garnet in 
Dasha of Sun to make it more beneficial. If the Sun is weak in 
strength or if it is ill-disposed or if it is afflicted or if it is owner or 
occupant of evil 3rd, 5th or 7th star or if it owns 22nd Drekkana or 
64th star then the natives born in aforesaid six Lagnas should not 
only wear Ruby or Spinel or Ruby-Star or Garnet but they must 
worship Surya and Gayatri in Dasha of Sun. In case of remaining 
six Lagnas natives are advised to fast on Sunday and worship Surya 
and Gayatri during Dasha of Sun but they must resist their 
temptation for wearing gems meant for the Sun, rather they may 
donate gold, copper, ruby and red articles to priests. Native’s 
born in Aries, Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces Lagnas may 
have immense prosperity in Dasha of Moon if they wear 
White Pearl or Moon-stone. Sf the Moon is weak in strength or 
afflicted or ill-disposed or if it is owner or occupant of evil 3rd, 5th 
or 7th star or if it owns 22nd Drekkana or 64th star then the natives 
born in Aries, Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces Lagnas must wear White 
Pearl or Moon-stone and should also worship Shiva and Parvati. 
Natives born in Gemini, Virgo, Libra, and Capricorn Lagnas 
may wear White Pearl or Moon-stone in Dasha of Moon if 
the Moon occupies its own sign. In remaining cases natives 
should resist the temptation of wearing White Pearl or Moon-stone 
in Dasha of Moon. Rather, they are advised to worship Shiva and 
Parvati and donate silver, pearl and white articles to priests. 


As regards Mars, it is most auspicious only for natives born 
in Cancer, Leo and Pisces Lagnas. For natives born in Aries, 
Sagittarius, Gemini, Capricorn, Aquarius and Scorpio Lagnas 
Mars may give mixed results in its Dasha. It is only in case of 
Taurus, Virgo and Libra Lagnas that Mars may give quite 
unfavourable results. Natives. born in Cancer, Leo, Pisces, 
Aries, Sagittarius, Scorpio, Capricorn, Aquarius and 
Gemini Lagnas may wear Red Coral in Dasha of Mars to 
get rich dividends. If Mars is weak in strength or ill-disposed 
or combust or afflicted or retrograde or Atichari or if it owns or 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 121 


occupies evil 3rd, 5th or 7th star or if it owns 22nd Drekkana or 
64th Navamsa natives born in aforesaid nine Lagnas should not 
only wear Red Coral in Dasha of Mars but they must resort to 
worship of Durga, Hanuman and Skanda or Ganesha. Natives 
born in Virgo, Taurus and Libra Lagnas must not wear 
Red Coral. They are advised to resort to worship of Ganesha, 
Skanda, Durga and Hanuman. They are further advised to 
observe Vrat (fast) on Tuesday and donate copper or red articles 
to priests. 

As regards Mercury it is quite auspicious for natives 
born in Taurus, Gemini, Leo, Virgo and Libra Lagnas. 
Such natives may wear Emerald or Green Jade in Dasha 
of Mercury. If Mercury is weak in strength or combust or ill- 
disposed or afflicted or if it owns or occupies the evil 3rd, 5th or 
7th star or if it owns the 22nd Drekkana or 64th navamsa such 
natives must wear Emerald or Green Jade in Dasha of Mercury. 
They are further advised to resort to worship of Vishnu, Saraswati 
and Kumari Durga. Natives born in Aries, Cancer, Scorpio and 
Pisces Lagnas must not wear Emerald or Green Jade in Dasha of 
Mercury. They may resort to worship of Vishnu and Kumari Durga. 
Natives born in Capricorn and Aquarius Lagnas may wear 
Green Emerald along with diamond set in a ring of gold 
in Dasha of Mercury. Natives born in Sagittarius Lagna 
may also wear Green Emerald along with Ruby set in a 
ring of gold in Dasha of Mercury. 

As regards Jupiter it is quite auspicious for natives 
born in Sagittarius, Pisces, Scorpio and Aquarius Lagnas. 
For natives born in Aries, Cancer and Leo Lagnas dupiter 
may give mixed results. Natives born in aforesaid Lagnas 
may wear Yellow Pokhraj or Topaz in a ring of gold in 
Dasha of Jupiter. \f such Jupiter is weak in strength or combust 
or ill-disposed or afflicted or if it owns or occupies the 3rd, 5th or 
7th star or if it owns the 22nd Drekkana or 64th Navamsa, it 
becomes all the more necessary to wear Yellow Pokhraj in Dasha 
of Jupiter and the same may give yet more better results if natives 
resort to worship of Vishnu and Brihaspati and do Vrat in addition. 
Natives born in Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, Libra and Capricorn 
Lagnas must not wear Yellow Pukhraj or Topaz. Rather, 


122 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


they may resort to worship of lord Vishnu and Bagala Mukhi Durga 
and observe fast on Thursday accompanied by donation of yellow 
metal and yellow articles to priests. 


As regards Venus it is quite auspicious for natives 
born in Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Capricorn and 
Aquarius lagnas. Natives born in these six lagnas may 
immensely benefit if they wear Diamond or White Pukhraj 
or Zircon or White Coral or Uppal in Dasha of Venus. lf 
such Venus is combust or weak in strength or ill-disposed or 
afflicted or if it owns or occupies the evil 3rd, 5th or 7th star or if 
it owns the 22nd Drekkana or 64th Navamsa it becomes all the 
more necessary to wear Diamond or White Pukhraj or Zircon or 
White Coral or Uppal in Dasha of Venus and the same may give 
yet better results if it is further accompanied by worship of Ganesh 
and Lakshmi or by worship of Ganesh and Durga and by 
observance of Vrat of Santoshi Maata. Natives born in Aries, 
Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius and Pisces Lagnas are 
advised to abstain from wearing aforesaid gems meant 
for Venus. They may better resort to observance of Santoshi 
Mata Vrat on Friday. Worship of Shiva and Parvati or worship of 
Ganesh and Lakshmi or worship of Ganesh and Durga during 
Dasha of Venus accompanied by donation of silver, gems and 
white articles to priests may confer untold benefits. 


As regards Saturn, it is held to be quite auspicious 
for Taurus, Libra, Capricorn and Aquarius Lagnas. 
Natives born in Taurus, Libra, Capricorn and Aquarius 
Lagnas may reap immense benefits in Dasha of Saturn by 
wearing Firoza in silver ring in middle or little finger if 
Saturn is strong and well-placed in birth-chart. They 
must abstain from use of Blue Sapphire as a rule. If 
natives born in aforesaid four Lagnas have their Saturn combust 
or weak in strength or retrograde or stationary in motion or i]- 
placed or afflicted or if it owns or occupies evil 3rd, 5th or 7th star 
or if it owns evil 22nd Drekkana or 64th Navamsa they must 
wear Blue Sapphire in a ring of silver or Pancha-Dhatu or Ashta 
Dhatu accompanied by worship of Hanuman, Maha Kaleshwar 
Rudra and Maha Kaali. Saturn gives mixed results for natives 
born in other Lagnas although texts portray Saturn as evil-most 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 123 


for natives born in Aries, Scorpio, Cancer, Leo, Pisces and 
Sagittarius Lagnas and it is only in case of Gemini and Virgo 
Lagnas that Saturn will be giving mixed results in its Dasha 
according to texts. We hold Saturn to be giving mixed results in 
case of eight other Lagnas as Saturn owns one auspicious and 
one inauspicious house in each case. Saturn never owns two 
inauspicious houses for any Lagna unlike Mars for Virgo Lagna 
or Mercury for Aries, and Cancer Lagnas or Jupiter for Libra and 
Capricorn Lagnas or Venus for Leo and Cancer Lagnas. We, 
therefore, would suggest that natives born in other eight Lagnas 
may wear only a ring of steel or iron in middle finger in Dasha of 
Saturn which may be accompanied by worship of Hanuman, 
Rudra and Méha Kaali. Oil, Til, Blanket, black articles or iron 
goods may be donated to poor people. 

Recital of Sundar Khand of Ramacharita Manas and 
Hanuman Chalisa may allay fears of all kinds in adverse Dashas 
of Saturn, Rahu and Mars. As regards Rahu and Ketu it is well- 
settled that they give results as per their dispositors in the first 
instance. If they are conjoined with some planet they may also 
give the results likely to be conferred by the planets joining them. 
Sometimes they may also give the results of planets aspecting 
Rahu or Ketu. It is for this reason that a blanket use of Gomeda 
in Rahu Maha Dasa and a blanket use of Cat’s eye in Dasha of 
Ketu Maha Dasha is forbidden. Irespective of any Lagna one 
may wear Gomeda in Dasha of Rahu only when Rahu lords over 
1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th or 9th star. If Rahu rules over the 3rd, 
5th or 7th star one must not wear Gomeda and instead 
one may resort to worship of Durga and Hanuman in 
Dasha of Rahu. One may similarly wear Cat's eye or Tiger’s 
eye in Dasha of Ketu when Ketu rules over the Ist, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 
8th or 9th star. If Ketu rules over the 3rd, 5th or 7th star, 
one must not wear Cat’s eye or Tiger’s eye. Rather, one 
may resort to worship of Ganesh and Chamunda Durga or Maha 
Kaali in Dasha of Ketu. Whenever Rahu-Ketu be posited in 
2nd/8th or 8th/2nd axis they must be appeased by 
appropriate worship in their Dashas. 

So far we have discussed about remedical measures in 
context of Maha Dasha. By and large the same guidelines have 


124 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


to be followed in respect of remedies for Antar Dashas. While 
devising remedies for sub-periods two more factors have to be 
considered. Firstly it has to be seen if sub-lord is placed in 
favourable or unfavourable position from major lord. If sub-lord 
occupies 6th, 8th or 12th position from major lord it has got to be 
appeased by worship of Devatas related to it. Secondly, last sub- 
period of any major period known as Dasha Chhidra gives 
more or less inauspicious results and the same has to be 
appeased by appropriate Devatas. We are giving below a 
list of Devatas to be worshipped during sub-periods of the above 
kind : 


Sub-periods of Devatas to be appeased 


1. Sun - Surya Devata 
2. Moon - Shiva and Parvati 
3. Mars - Skanda or Ganesh, Durga and Hanuman 
4. Mercury -— Vishnu and Kumari Durga 
5. Jupiter - Vishnu and Shiva 
6. Venus ~ Ganesh and Lakshmi or Ganesh and 
Durga or Shiva or Parvati 
7. Saturn -— Rudra, Hanuman and Kaali 
8. Rahu -— Durga and Hanuman 
9. Ketu - Ganesh and Chamunda Durga or Maha Kaali. 


CHAPTER-XVI] G25 
YOGA KARAKA DASA 


Parasari system is the base of Hindu Astrology. According 
to Parasara, Vimsottari Dasa is the best applicable to Kali Yuga- 
aot faxirett deme aan Wen fesira—Further, it has been upheld at 
several places by Parasara and his followers that Grahas give 
results specifically in their Dasas. Grahas give results according 
to their lordships and their association with other Grahas and 
aspect of other Grahas on them. Yoga Karaka, Maraka, auspi- 
cious and inauspicious Grahas too give their results in their own 
Dasas. Grahas forming special combinations too, give their spe- 
cific results in their own Dasas. 


It may please be noted that in Parasari literature, Dasas are 
always referred to Vimsottari Dasa and nobody has the right to 
misinterpret it as appertaining to other Dasa systems. ] have seen 
some writers condemning Vimsottari Dasa as of little value on the 
one hand and on the other hand applying the principles of same 
Vimsottari Dasa to their choice-Dasa system in their own. When 
Nakshatra allotments to Grahas, Graha-Dasa-orders and Graha- 
Dasa periods in Vimsottari Dasa, Ashttotari Dasa, Shodasottari 
Dasa, Dwadasottari Dasa and Panchottari Dasa are not the same, 
it is highly improper and objectionable to use the same Dasa 
Phalaas given in Vimsottari Dasa Phala just by increasing or de- 
creasing the periods. For example, a person born in Krittika is 
ruled by Sun Dasa (6 years) followed by Moon Dasa (10 years), 
Mars (7 years), Rahu Dasa (18 years), Guru Dasa (16 years), 
Sani Dasa (19 years), Budha Dasa (17 years), Ketu Dasa (7 years) 
and Sukra Dasa (20 years) in Vimsottari Dasa. 


in Ashtottari Dasa a person born in Krittika is ruled by Sukra 
Dasa (21 years), followed by Sun Dasa (6 years), Moon Dasa (15 
years), Mars Dasa (8 years), Budha Dasa (17 years), Sani Dasa 
(10 years), Guru Dasa (19 years), and Rahu Dasa (12 years) 


126 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


with no Ketu Dasa. 


In Shodashottari Dasa a person born in Krittika is ruled by 
Budha Dasa (17 years) followed by Sukra dasa (18 years), Sun 
Dasa (11 years), Mars Dasa ( 12 years), Guru Dasa (13 years), 
Sani Dasa (14 years), Ketu Dasa (15 years), Moon Dasa (16 years) 
with no Rahu Dasa. 


In Dvadasottari dasa, a person born in Krittika in ruled by 
Sun (7 years) followed by Guru Dasa (9 years), Ketu Dasa (11 
years), Budha Dasa (13 years), Rahu Dasa (15 years), Mars Dasa 
(17 years), Sani Dasa (19 years) and Chandra Dasa (21 years). 


In Panchottari Dasa, a person born in Krittika is ruled by 
Guru Dasa (18 years) followed by Sun Dasa (12 years), Budha 
Dasa (13 years), Sani Dasa (14 years), Mars Dasa (15 years), 
Sukra Dasa (16 years), Moon Dasa (17 years) with no Rahu and 
Ketu Dasas. 


Under the circumstances, it is nothing but a sheer joke to 
apply Vimsottari Dasa Phala to other Dasa Phalas. Some writers 
without going into depth are misguiding readers towards other 
Dasa systems as against Vimsottari Dasa and, therefore, | have 
to come forward for condemning such attempts born out of igno- 
rance and haste on part of such astrologers. | still hold the view 
that those who are fully conversant with various Parasari rules 
and are apt in applying the same intelligently will find that there is 
no other Dasa system equal to Vimsottari Dasa system. 95% as- 
trologers use Vimsottari Dasa since time immemorial. Had 
Vimsottari Dasa been a hoax, it would have died much earlier. Tc 
those who find fault in Vimsottari Dasa | may ask in all humility 
“Have they considered the issue in hand from point of view o 
lordship of concerned Dasa from Janma Lagna, Janma Rasi 
position of dispositor, placement of Grahas, their association anc 
aspect on them, formation of speical combinations etc.? If ther 
have not applied these principles carefully, they have no mora 
right to condemn Vimsottari Dasa on ground of imperfect or wron¢ 
reading made by themselves or by any one.” 


Basic fact is that we take into account lordship and positior 
of Grahas from Janma Lagna whereas Dasas are based on luna 
_ Nakshatras. For example, persons born in Mesha, Simha anc 


bgt) castes cate tictaeeutatea he 


i 
qa 
i 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 127 


Dhanus Lagna with their Lunar Nakshatras allotted to Saturn, 
Mercury, Ketu, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu and Jupiter will be 
getting Maha Dasas of Yoga Karaka as follows : 


In Saturnine Nakshatra—Ravi Dasa positively and Kuja Dasa 
in 25% cases. 


In Mercurian Nakshatra-Ravi Dasa and Kuja Dasa. 
In Ketu Nakshatra—Ravi, Kuja and Guru Dasas. 

In Venusian Nakshatra—Ravi, Kuja and Guru Dasas. 
In Sun Nakshatra~Ravi, Kuja and Guru Dasas. 

In Moon Nakshatra—Kuja and Guru Dasas. 

In Mars Nakshatra—Kuja and Guru Dasas. 

In Rahu Nakshatra~Guru, Ravi and Kuja Dasas. 

In Guru Nakshatra~Guru Ravi and Kuja Dasas. 


In Vimsottari Dasa, every native is to get yoga Karaka Dasa. 
The first limitation is the longevity of the native. Then, there may 
be another limitation, that is, in which period of life Yoga Karaka 
Dasa falls and whether a rise in career chosen by the native is 
possible in that period. If it is not possible in such period, it is so 
arranged by native that other forces will be set in motion to give 
the destined results. These forces may be either of these : Yoga 
Karakas from Janma Rasi, Nodes or other planets under influ- 
ence of Yoga Karaka, Grahas causing special Yogas, Grahas ren- 
dered otherwise useful etc. In this chapter, | have limited myself to 
Yoga Karaka Grahas only. By Yoga Karaka Grahas we mean here 
Grahas capable of giving the best rise in career. 


Sage Parasara determined character of Grahas as per their 
lordship from Lagna. He divided Grahas into four categories : 


Papi (Malefic), Subha (auspicious), Yoga Karaka and 
Maraka. 


According to Parasara, lords of Kendra and Trikona in each 
other’s house or if they are together in any house or they are in 
their own house or if they have mutual aspect, they become Yoga 
Karaka. Yoga Karaka makes one a ruler or famous in any field— 


ant afer area yet faarat at at sara, 


128 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dashe 


Other Parasari rule says that if a planet owns both Kendra 
and Kona and is posited either in Kendra or Kona, it becomes 
most auspicious and special Yoga Karaka. It means, such a planet 
will give the result of a normal Yoga Karaka at other places. Sat- 
urn for Taurus and Libra Lagnas, Mars for Cancer and Leo Lagnas 
and Venus for Capricorn and Aquarius Lagnas can only be such 
special Yoga Karakas. 


Third Parasari rule says, if lords of Kendra or Kona own evil 
houses, they will be able to give substantial results only when they 
are endowed with other special powers such as in exaltation or 
connected with special combinations like Raja Yoga etc. 


Fourth Parasari rule says that Rahu and Ketu will be giving 
results according to lords of houses combined with them or ac- 
cording to their dispositors. If in Kendra they are combined with 
or aspected by Lord of Kona, or if in Kona they are combined 
with or aspected by lord of Kendras, they too become Yoga 
Karakas. 


According to Parasara, irrespective of their lordships follow- 
ing Grahas may give rise in career and all-round prosperity in 
their Dasas : 

1. Exalted Moon/Jupiter/Venus/Mercury in 2nd house. 


2. Debilitated Graha in 6th/8th/3rd house, if Lagna lord in 
exallation or own sign aspects Lagna. This is possible only in 
case of Aries, Scorpio’ and Pisces Lagnas. 

3. If the lords of 6th, 8th and 12th are in debilitation, in inimical 
sign or in combustion in a horoscope, and if lagna lord in 
exaltation or own sign aspects Lagna. (Possible only in case 
of Aries, Scorpio and Pisces Lagnas.) 


4. 10th lord in exaltation or own sign aspecting Lagna. This is 
possible in case of Aries, Gemini, Cancer, Sagittarius and 
Aquarius lagnas. 


. Debilitated 6th/8th/12th lord aspecting Lagna. 
. Debilitated planet in 6th/ 8th/3rd/11th aspecting Lagna. 
. Planets in Kendra from Navamsa Lagna. 


ON nN WN 


. 9th lord and 5th lord related to in any manner. Parasara gives 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 129 


9. 
10. 
11. 


12. 


13. 
14. 
15. 


16 


19. 


20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 


24. 
25. 


26. 


more weightage to 5th lord. He treats 9th lords as Minister 
and 5th lord as Chief Minister. 


1st/4th/5th/10th lord when combined with 9th lord. 
4th or 10th lord when combined with 5th or 9th lord. 


5th lord combined with Lagna lord or 9th lord in Lagna/4th/ 
10th house. 


Jupiter combined with Venus in Pisces or Sagittarius, or Ju- 
piter combined with 5th lord. 


Vargottama Moon aspected by several Grahas. 
Atma Karaka combined with Amatya Karaka. 


Amatya Karaka in exaltation or own sign if combined with 
some benefic. 


. Amatya Karaka placed in 1st/5th/9th house. 
17. 
18. 


Amatya Karaka in Kendra/Kona from Atma Karaka. 


Atma Karka in exaltation or own sign posited in Kendra/kona 
and combined with 9th lord. 


lf Atma Karaka is also Janma Rasi lord and the same occu- 
pies Lagna along with some benefic. 


Atma Karaka in 9th house. 
Atma Karaka combined with some benefic. 
Venus and Moon in 4th from Atma Karaka. 


Lagna lord/Atma Karaka/ Amatya Karaka combined with 
5th lord in Kendra/Trikona. 


11th lord in 11th unaspected by malefic. 


10th lord in Lagna and Lagna lord in 10th, both become 
Yoga Karaka. 


9th and 5th lords and planets combined with them give pros- 
perity in their Dasas. 


Parasara has outlined some general rules about Dasa Phala. 


They are as follows : 


1. 


Dasa of Lagna lord gives bodily comforts. Dasa of 2nd lord 
gives troubles and fear of death. Dasa of 3rd lord gives in- 
auspicious results. Dasa of 4th lord gives happiness, gain of 


130 


10. 


‘Tas 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


house and land. Dasa of 5th lord gives learning and issues. 
Dasa of 6th lord gives diseases and fear of enemy. Dasa of 
7th lord gives fear of death to native and trouble to spouse. 
Dasa of 8th lord causes loss of wealth and fear of death. 
Dasa of 9th lord gives learning, religious bent of mind, sud- 
den gain of wealth etc. Dasa of 10th lord gives honour and 
rise in profession. Dasa of 11th lord gives obstacles to gains 
and fear of disease. Dasa of 12th lord gives diseases and 
troubles. 


. Dasas of 9th or 10th lord combined with 5th lord becomes 


highly auspicious. Any Graha combined with 5th lord will 
give auspicious results in its Dasa. 


. Dasas of 10th or 4th lord combined with 9th lord will also 


give quite auspicious results. 


. Trine lord in Kendra or Kendra lord in Trikona.will also give 


quite auspicious results in their Dasas. 


. Dasas of 6th, 8th, 12th and other lords may also give auspi- 


cious results, if they are combined with trine lord. 


. Dasa of Kendra lord in Trine or Trine lord in Kendra, when 


combined with any other Graha also becomes auspicious. 


. Dasa of a planet aspected by Kendra lord or trine lord be- 


comes auspicious. 


. Lagna lord in 9th and 9th lord in Lagna will make Dasas of 


both grahas auspicious. 


. 10th lord in Lagna and Lagna lord in 10th. Dasas of both 


Lagna lord and 10th lord will give more power definitely. 


Normally, Dasas of 3rd/6th/11th lords or Dasas of Grahas 
posited in these houses or combined with 3rd/6th/11th lords 
give inauspicious results/Grahas in 2nd or 7th house or in 
8th house when combined with Maraka lord (killer) (2nd or 
7th lord) will give inauspicious results in their Dasas. 


Dasa lord in exaltation or own sign and posited in auspi- 
cious houses will give auspicious results. Dasa lords in de- 
bilitation in evil houses will give bad results. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 131 


12. If Dasa lord is posited in Lagna or is in its own/friendly/ex- 
alted sign aspected by benefic at the time of commencement 
of Dasa, it will give auspicious results. If Dasa lord is placed 
in 6th/8th/12th house or is debilited or in inimical sign at the 
commencement of a Dasa, it will give inauspicious results in 
its Dasa. 


According to Parasara, Sun and Jupiter are Yoga Karakas 
and Mars is neutral for Aries Lagna. Saturn is Yoga Karaka, Sun 
a benefic and Mercury less beneficial for Taurus Lagna. For Gemini 
Lagna Venus is Yoga Karaka. Saturn is less benefic. Mars is Yoga 
Karaka for Cancer Lagna; Moon and Jupiter are benefics. Mars, 
Jupiter and Sun are benefics for Leo Lagna; Mars is Yoga Karaka 
and Moon is neutral. Mercury and Venus are benefics for Virgo 
Lagna; Sun is neutral; Saturn is less beneficial. Saturn and Mer- 
cury are benefics; Moon and Mercury Raja Yoga Karakas and 
Venus neutral for Libra. But actually Saturn is Raja Yoga Karaka 
for Libra Lagna. Sun and Moon are Yoga Karakas; Jupiter a ben- 
efic and Mars neutral for Scorpio Lagna. Sun and Mercury are 
Yoga Karakas; Mars and Sun benefic and Jupiter neutral for Sag- 
ittarius Lagna. Venus and Mercury are benefics and Venus is Yoga 
Karaka while Saturn neutral for Capricorn Lagna. Venus and Sat- 
urn are benefics; Venus is Yoga Karaka and Mercury ordinarily 
good for Aquarius Lagna. Mars and Jupiter are Yoga Karakas; 
Moon and Mars are benefics for Pisces Lagna. 

Basis of Parasari astrology is that Lagna lord is both a 
Kendrakona lord and hence it is always auspicious : 


I Sra frentoreang Fasreor ysTST | 
teat wat da fasted 
Accordingly, Lagna lord is to be treated as most benefic for 
every Lagna even if it owns some other evil houses. Similarly, if 
5th and 9th lords own some evil houses they will be mostly ben- 
efic in their nature. Parasara has treated 2nd, 8th and 12th lords 
as neutral giving results as per association and placements. 3rd, 
6th and 11th lords are inauspicious but in their own houses they 
will give good results. Lords of 10th and 7th give happiness. So 
will give 4th lord. 


Parasara has stressed over a point that Chandra Yogas regu- 


132 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


late the function of other Yogas. He has further stressed at an- 
. other place that position of Grahas from Moon also be taken into 
account. Therefore, Yoga Karaka Dasas must be considered from 
Janma Rasi along with Janma Lagna in my humble views. 


Experience, however, has shown the following results : 


(i) Lagna lord, 5th lord and 9th lord must be giving important 
good results like elevation in position and wealth in their 
Dasas even if they own some other evil house. 


(ii) Lords of 2nd, 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th in their Dasas are also 
found to have raised the economic and social status of a 
person many times as they own houses of wealth or 
Upachaya. Any planet in Lagna, 7th or 11th will give wealth 
in its Dasa. 


{iii) Kendra lordship of a benefic will not deter it from giving good 
results in its Dasa if it is otherwise capable : 


(iv) If a Yoga Karaka planet is combust or retrograde, it will not 
totally refuse to deliver good results in its Dasa. [t may delay 
the results, cause obstacles also but will not deny what is due 
to a native. 


(v) We have found that Yoga Karakas from Janma Rasi are 
equally important as Yoga Karakas from Janma Lagna. 


(vi) Rahu-Ketu and other planets under deep influence of Yoga 
Karakas have been found to be giving highly good results in 
their Dasas. , 


(vii) Jupiter in 6th, Mercury in 8th and Venus in 12th from Lagna 
are also found to have been giving auspicious results in their 
Dasas. 


With these introductory notes, | am going to examine the 
horoscopes of 41 important natives to assess the performance of 
Yoga Karaka Dasas in rise of career of all such natives. This will 
genuinely satisfy our readers and remove misconceptions created 
by some astrologers in regard to Vimsottari Dasa. 


Natives having same Janma Lagna and same Janma Rasi : 


(1) Lord Sri Krishna : Both his Janma Lagna and Janma 
Rasi were Taurus. Saturn is held to be the best Yoga Karaka for 


Advanced Study of Virnshottari Dasha 133 


Taurus as it owns 9th and 10th houses. Saturn was posited in 7th 
house and his 9th house was occupied by Ketu. Saturn had full 
aspect on his Lagna, Moon, Sun, Jupiter and Ketu. Saturn’s as- 
pect on Ketu had more significance as Ketu was posited in a sign 
owned by Saturn. In his case, Saturn chose to give its best results 
through medium of Ketu. Ketu in 9th house helps one reach the 
pinnacle of one’s glory if it is aspected by Kendra and kona lords. 
In instant case Ketu is aspected by 9th-cum-10th lord Saturn and 
Lagna lord Venus. 9th house deals with religion and philosophy. 
It was in Ketu Maha Dasa that Lord Krishna propounded the phi- 
losophy of Karma Yoga in a battle-field. It was his Srimad Bhagvat 
Gita which immortalised his name as a founder and synthesizer 
of practical philosophy. In his case, Yoga Karaka from Janma 
Lagna and Janma Rasi i.e. Saturn gave the result through Ketu. 


(2) Lord Tennyson : Both his Janma Lagna and Janma 
Rasi were Taurus. Saturn was his best Yoga Karaka, both from 
his Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi. Saturn in 7th house aspected 
his Lagna, Moon and 9th house owned by Saturn. It was Sani 
Maha Dasa that conferred name and fame on him. Thus, Saturn, 
Yoga Karaka from his Lagna and Janma Rasi gave most auspi- 
cious results in its own Maha Dasa. 


(3) Queen Victoria : Both her Janma Lagna and Janma 
Rasi were Taurus. She had Rahu, Saturn and Mars in 11th house. 
Saturn the Yoga Karaka aspected her Lagna and Moon. It was in 
Sani Maha Dasa that she was promoted to the rank of an Emperess 
from that of a queen. Thus, Yoga Karaka Saturn from her Lagna 
and Janma Rasi gave the best result in its own Maha Dasa. 


(4) Rama Krishna Parama Hamsa : Both his Janma 
Lagna and Janma Rasi were Aquarius. He had exalted Saturn in 
9th house which was aspected by Karaka of 9th house i.e. Jupi- 
ter. lt was in Sani Maha Dasa that he came to prominence. Thus, 
in his case Lagna lord and Rasi lord by its placement in 9th house 
gave the best result in itt Maha Dasa. It proves our point that 
Lagna lord gives auspicious results. 

(5) George Bernard Shaw : Both his Janma Lagna and 
danma Rasi were Taurus. He had his Yoga Karaka Saturn com- 
bined with another Yoga Karaka, Mercury (2nd-cum-5th lord). It 


134 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


was in Budha Maha Dasa that his fame and success reached its 
climax when he was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature. In his 
case Mercury Dasa not only gave result of 2nd and 5th house but 
also it gave the result of 9th-cum-10th lord Saturn associated with 
it. 


6. Rabindra Nath Tagore : Both his Janma Lagna and 
Janma Rasi were Pisces. The 5th lord Moon in Lagna and Lagna 
lord Jupiter in 5th constituted Maha Yoga. Moon and Mars are 
Yoga Karakas for Pisces. His Moon was strengthened by aspect 
of Lagna lord Jupiter. It was in Chandra Dasa that Tagore came 
to great prominence when he was awarded the Nobel prize in 
literature. Though weak in Paksha Bala, his Moon gave quite good 
results as its house was occupied by Lagna lord Jupiter who 
aspected the Moon. Therefore, Yoga Karaka Moon from his Lagna 
gave the best result in its Maha Dasa. Combustion of Moon did 
not matter in his case. 


7, Jawahar Lal Nehru : Both his Janma Lagna and Janma 
Rasi were Cancer. For Cancer, Lagna Mars is best Yoga Karaka. 
Moon and Jupiter are benefics. Dasas of Moon and Mars kept 
him in forefront. His Mars in 3rd house was quite strong. It was in 
Maha Dasa of Mars that he became the Vice-President of the 
Interim Government and then the first Prime Minister of India. 
Thus, in his case, Maha Dasa of Yoga Karaka Mars gave the best 
results. 


(8) Rajiv Gandhi : His Janma Lagna, Janma Rasi and 
Ravi Lagna fell in Leo sign. He had Maha Bhagya yoga. Rahu in 
12th from Moon and Saturn in 11th from Moon constituted Maha 
Shakti Yoga. Dispositor of Rahu, that is, Moon was combined 
with 5th-cum-8th lord Jupiter, Lagna lord Sun, 10th lord Venus 
and 11th lord Venus and 2nd-cum-11th lord Mercury. Sun-Mer- 
cury, Sun-Jupiter, Moon-dupiter and Mercury-Venus combines were 
good. Sun-Moon, Sun-Venus, Moon-Venus and Moon-Mercury 
combines were not good. Aspect of Saturn on Lagna and planets 
therein was a great destroying factor. Rajiv Gandhi entered poli- 
tics in Maha Dasa of Yoga Karaka Mars and was groomed as 
successor to Indira Gandhi. Maha Shakti Yoga and Maha Bhagya 
Yoga brought him to power in early part of Rahu Dasa. He re- 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 135 


mained Prime Minister for 5 years. Due to several evil influences 
he went out of power and when he was going to assume power 
again he was brutally assassinated at the eleventh hour. In his 
case Yoga Karaka Dasa of Mars did the grounding work but the 
best and worst results were shared by the native in Rahu Dasa 
owing to special combinations present in his horoscope. 


Natives born in different Janma Lagnas and Janma Rasis : 


(9) Alexander the Great : His Janma Lagna was Aries 
and his Janma Rasi was Libra. It was in Budha Dasa that 
Alexander made a mark in history by conquering over Egypt, West 
Asia and Western part of India. He founded the city of Alexan- 
dria. Mercury is a malefic for Aries Lagna but it is a benefic foi 
Libra Lagna or Rasi. Mercury in 10th from Moon caused Amalz 
Kirti Yoga. His glory is better explained through his Janma Rasi 
Truly Mercury as 3rd lord in its Dasa makes one an aggressor o1 
power-hungry. 6th lord in its Dasa gives enmity and illness. 
Alexander had also all these experiences in Budha Maha Dasa. 
He got obstacles in his way. His dream of conquering the world 
remained unfulfilled. While returning to Greece, he died of diar- 
rhoea on way. So evil lordship of Mercury have had also a say in 
frustrating his ambitions. In his case, Dasa lord gave results both 
according to Janma Rasi and Janma Lagna though it is better 
explained through Janma Rasi as far as his achievements are 
concerned. 


(10) Omar Khayam : His Janma Lagna was Taurus and 
his Janma Rasi was Gemini. He came to prominence in Maha 
Dasa of Sani. His Saturn was combined with Jupiter in Capri- 
corn in 9th from Janma Lagna and in 8th from Janma Rasi. Sat- 
urn as 9th-cum-10th lord is a more powerful benefic for Taurus 
lagna than for Gemini Lagna where it owns evil 8th house along 
with auspicious 9th house. In his case Saturn prominently worked 
as Yoga Karaka from Janma Lagna. 


(11) Jagdish Chandra Bose : His Janma Lagna was 
Taurus and his Janma Rasi was Virgo. His name and fame reached 
the highest zenith in course of Budha Maha Dasa. From Janma 
Lagna Mercury was a great benefic as it owned 2nd and 5th 
houses. From Janma Rasi, Mercury owned 1st and 10th houses. 


136 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Mercury was combined with Venus in Sagittarius which fell in 8th 
from Janma Lagna and in 4th from Janma Rasi. Mercury and 
Venus in 4th aspected 10th house from Moon which strengthened 
10th house is quite understandable. 


But, Mercury in 8th house is also upheld to be quite auspi- 
cious. For natives engaged in research, invention and discovery 
8th house becomes much more important than any other house. 
In his case Mercury was beneficial both from his Janma Lagna 
and Janma Rasi. Therefore, Budha Maha dasa proved as a land- 
mark in his case. It proves beneficial results of Mercury in 8th 
house. 


(12) Morarji Desai : His Janma Lagna is Gemini and his 
Janma Rasi is Leo. He has Mercury, Venus and Mars in 8th from 
Janma Lagna and in 6th from Janma Rasi. Mercury in 8th from 
Lagna is held to be auspicious. Mercury and Venus in 8th from 
Lagna and in 6th from Moon caused Adhi Yoga. It was in Budha 
Maha Dasa that he became the Prime Minister as Mercury (4th 
lord) and Venus (5th lord) by their combination caused Raja Yoga. 
But as his Mercury is afflicted by Mars, he had to resign the post 
in about 28 months. In his case Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi 
had an equally good say. Mercury-Venus-Mars combine in 6th 
from his Janma Rasi constituted a kind of Vipareet Raja Yoga 
according to some astrologers. 


(13) Albert Einstein : His Janma lagna was Gemini, an 
intellectual sign and his Janma Rasi was Scorpio, a mystic sign. 
He had his Sun, Mercury, Venus and Saturn in Pisces in 10th 
from Lagna and in 5th from his Moon. Venus is a Yoga Karaka 
for Gemini Lagna and it is exalted in 10th house. It was in Sukra 
Maha Dasa that Einstein’s new ideas of Relativty in field of Quan- 
tum Physics got currency throughout the world. An exalted 5th 
lord in 10th house gave him a wide name and fame in its Maha 
Dasa is quite understandable. But Janma Rasi played no less an 
important part. Sun being the 10th lord from his Janma Rasi and 
posited in 5th from Janma Rasi and in 10th from his Lagna made 
him the head of an important scientific institution. It was, how- 
ever, in Moon Maha Dasa Mars Bhukti that Einstein was made a 
Nobel Laureate in Physics. Moon being the 9th lord is a first rate 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 137 


benefic for Scorpio. Moon was no doubt debilitated but dispositor 
of Moon, Mars was exalted in 8th from Lagna and in 3rd from 
Moon. Mars was his Rasi lord. 8th house deals with scientific 
reserach and its recognition. It is thus clear that Janma Lagna 
and Janma Rasi had an equal say in shaping his destiny. 

14. Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose : His Janma Lagna 
was Aries. His Janma Rasi was Virgo. 5th lord Sun was com- 
bined with Mercury and Rahu in 10th from his Janma Lagna and 
in 5th from his Moon causing both Raja Yoga and Raja Bhanga 
Yoga at a time. Placement of 10th lord Saturn in 8th house 
always gives power for a short-term. Placement of 9th lord 
Jupiter in 5th from Lagna in Leo Sign was definitely a majestic 
Yoga. Aspect of Mars on Jupiter denoted his military capabilities. 
Mutual aspect between Venus and Jupiter denoted his diplomatic 
skill. Maha Dasa of Yoga Karaka Jupiter (June 1932 to June 1948) 
made him an outstanding national leader. He was elected the 
President of the Congress but Netaji had to quit Congress. He 
formed a new party known as Forward Block. He mysteriously 
disappeared from India and formed Azad Hind Sena to wage a 
war against British Government. He was recognized as the head 
of Azad Hind Government in exile by the Axis powers. He died in 
an air crash on 22nd August, 1945 soon after the fall of Japan. In 
his case Janma Lagna played the dominant role. 

(15) Arjun Singh : His Janma Lagna is Gemini. His Janma 
Rasi is Aries. For Gemini Lagna Venus is Yoga Karaka. It gave 
him good education between 2nd and 22nd years of his age in its 
Maha Dasa. In Maha Dasas of Moon and Mars he entered poli- 
tics. He became M.L.A. so many times. He was also made a 
Minister in Madhya Pradesh Government. It was actually in Rahu 
Maha Dasa that he became the Chief Minister, Governor, Central 
Minister and all that. His Janma Rasi has played a dominant role 
in building his political career. Moon, Sun, Jupiter and Mars are 
benefics for Aries. Rahu in Aries is combined with Moon in 11th 
from Lagna. It is aspected by Lagna lord Mercury and 5th lord 
Sun from Janma Rasi. Hence, it gave so good results in its Maha 
Dasa. Affliction of luminaries by nodes, however, made him a 
victim of breaks and changes. With commencement of Guru Maha 
Dasa, Arjun Singh acquired more importance. In Guru Dasa Guru 


138 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Bhukti (27.6.1993 to 15.8.1995) once it so appeared that 
Narasimha Rao may be replaced by Arjun Singh. Mutual aspect . 
between 10th lord Jupiter and 9th lord Saturn which is also 8th 
lord is quite significant for him in Guru Dasa, Sani Bhukti (15.8.95 
to 27.2.98). 


(16) Indira Gandhi : Her Janma Lagna was Cancer and 
her Janma'Rasi was Capricorn. She had Maha Bhagya Yoga 
and Maha Yoga in her horoscope. Her 9th lord Jupiter, posited in 
11th from her Lagna and in 5th from her Moon made her first the 
Congress President, then a Centra! Cabinet Minister. In Sani Maha 
Dasa (19.9.70 to 19.9.89) she became a yet more powerful Prime 
Minister, had Raja Bhanga for about 2 years, 9 months, again 
came back to power but was assassinated on 31.10.1984. As 
danma Rasi lord and as Maha Yoga Karaka Sani in its Maha 
Dasa made her so great a Prime Minister but due to evil lordships 
same Saturn gave her.once set-back and finally her death in his 
Maha Dasa. In her case, Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi had an 
equally good say. 


(17) Vishwanath Pratap Singh : His Janma Lagna is 
Cancer and his Janma Rasi is Libra. Maha Dasa of Jupiter, 9th 
lord from Lagna passed when he was 33 years old. Major part of 
Raja yoga was enjoyed by him in Sani Dasa which is a Yoga 
Karaka from his Janma Rasi but is also 10th lord from his Janma 
Lagna. His Saturn is aspected by 9th lord from Janma Rasi and 
is placed in 5th from Moon. In Budha Maha Dasa (19.7.82 to 
19.7.99) he enjoyed power for about 4% years. Then, he resigned 
or was expelled and at last became the Prime Minister for about 
11 months. He is out of power since then. Till 19.11.96. Mr. V.B 
Singh was running Guru Bhukti in Budha Dasa. Jupiter is also 
his 6th lord and Mercury is also a Markesh for him. Mercury is 
combined with 2nd lord Sun. He is reported to be suffering from 
some malignant disease. Saturn may be a Yoga Karaka for Tula 
Rasi but it is also a Marak for Cancer Lagna. It is doubtful if Mr. 
V.P. Singh will have any bright future now. He is a decaying and 
spent out force. 


(18) Aurbindo Ghose : His Janma Lagna was Cancer 
and his Janma Rasi was Sagittarius. Mars and Jupiter, Yoga 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 139 


Karakas for Lagna and Janma Rasi were posited in Lagna. It 
was in Guru Maha Dasa that his name spread far and wide and 
he became an institution attracting admirers and disciples from 
all over the world. Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi had an equally 
good say in his case. 


(19) Bal Gangadhar Tilak : His Janma lagna was Can- 
_cer and his Janma Rasi was Pisces. He was at the peak of his 
glory in Maha Dasa of Mars which was a Yoga Karaka both for 
his Lagna and Janma Rasi. His Mars was in 4th from Lagna and 
in 8th from his Moon. As such, Mars in good position from Lagna 
gave him honours but Mars in bad position from Moon involved 
him in some litigations also. Thus, Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi 
had an equally good say in his case. 


(20) Lord Buddha : His Janma Lagna was Cancer and 
his Janma Rasi was Libra. It was in Budha Maha Dasa that he 
got Enlightenment and gave his first sermon at Sarnath. Mercury 
is not a benefic planet for Cancer Lagna from material point of 
view but as 12th lord it is highly useful for spiritual endeavours 
and social reforms. Mercury is a benefic for Tula Rasi. Mercury in 
11th from Lagna and in 8th from Moon was quite good. Mercury 
in 8th and Jupiter-Venus in 7th from Moon caused Adhi Yoga. 
Therefore, Budha Dasa made Lord Buddha so great. In his case 
Janma Rasi played a more dominant role than his Janma Lagna. 


21. Aadi Sankaracharya : His Janma Lagna was Cancer 
and his Janma Rasi was Gemini. Dasa of 9th lord Jupiter gave 
him glory. He wrote his commentries on Upanishadas, Brahma 
Sutra and Bhagavat Gita in Guru Maha Dasa. Jupiter in Aquarius 
in 8th from Lagna may not be good for material prosperity but it is 
surely beneficial for spiritual advancements. Jupiter had full aspect 
on Lagna lord Moon, 2nd and 4th house from Lagna. Therefore, 
dupiter gave him glory in field of knowledge. Placement of Jupiter 
in spiritual sign of Aquarius in 9th from Moon was significant as 
9th house deals with religion, philosophy and teaching. In my view, 
therefore, Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi, have an equally good 
say in this case, though Lagna dominates here. 


(22) Guru Nanak : His Janma Lagna was Leo and his 
danma Rasi was Taurus. His Jupiter was in 2nd from Lagna and 


140 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


in 5th from Moon. It was in Guru Maha Dasa that he reached the 
peak of his glory by preaching his gospel of love and faith in one 
almighty God. Aspect of Jupiter on Moon and Saturn posited in 
10th house gave him so wide name and fame. It is obvious that 
Jupiter in its Maha Dasa gives auspicious results to Leo-born 
natives inspite of its 8th lordship Lagna dominated in his case. 


(23) Shivaji The Great : His Janma Lagna was Leo and 
him Janma Rasi was Virgo. He had Sun-Jupiter combine in 
Aquarius and Saturn in Libra. Jupiter, Mercury and Venus caused 
Chandradhi Yoga. Jupiter and Mercury caused Lagnadhi Yoga. It 
was Maha Dasa of Jupiter that Shivaji founded an independent 
Maratha State and waged a relentless war against the Mughals 
for full autonomy. It again goes to prove that Jupiter is a Yoga 
Karaka for Leo Lagna in spite of its 8th lordship. It was, however, 
in Sani Maha Dasa that Aurangzeb had no alternative but to rec- 
ognize Shivaji as an independent Raja. His coronation also took 
place in Sani Maha Dasa. Whatever may be said in books of 
astrology, it has been found that Saturn in Lagna, 3rd, 
6th, 7th, 10th and 11th house in case of Leo Lagna gives 
solid gains. Here exalted Saturn in 3rd from Lagna helped 
Shivaji reach the zenith of his power. In his case, Janma Lagna 
appears to have been domineering over Janma Rasi. 


(24) Narasimha Rao : His Janma Lagna is Virgo and his 
Janma Rasi is Pisces. He is running Maha Dasa of Mars from 
24.3.1990. He became the Prime Minister in Maha Dasa of Mars 
in June, 1991 in Rahu Bhukti. Mars is a malefic for Virgo but it is 
2nd-cum-9th lord for Pisces Rasi. Moon and Mars are Yoga 
Karakas for Pisces Lagna and not for Virgo Lagna. Moon Maha 
Dasa made him No. 2 in Rajiv Gandhi’s Cabinet and Mars Maha 
Dasa made him the Prime Minister. Mars is fully combust but it is 
Digabali and is conjoined with 10th lord Mercury and 12th lord 
Sun. 10th lord in 10th, Rajya Karakaa Sun in 10th and Mars in 
10th give high power. Aspects of 9th-cum-2nd lord Venus and 5th 
lord Saturn on Rahu made it Raja Yoga Karaka. 


Rahu is 5th from Mars which is auspicious. Mars in Kendra 


from Moon causes Chandra Mangalik Yoga. His Janma Rasi has 
played a dominant role in making him the Prime Minister in Maha 


Ss ee SN ee ae oe ee ee ee ee ge ee 


: 
‘ 
| 


Advanced Study of Vimshotiari Dasha 141 


Dasa of Mars but good position of Mars from Lagna and good 
position of sub lord Rahu in Lagna Kundali have also made posi- 
tive contributions. Further, it transpires that combustion or retro- 
gression of planets may cause impediments but not destruction of 
a good result. Had combust Mars any more destructive capability 
than causing impediments, Rao would not have been sworn in as 
the Prime Minister and also would not have been successful in 
weathering so many storms and gaining clear majority in Lok 
Sabha step by step. 

(25) Jesus christ : His Janma Lagna was Virgo and his 
dJanma Rasi was Pisces. It was in Ketu Maha Dasa that Jesus 
came to prominence and began his preachings. Ketu was posited 
in 9th from his Lagna and in 3rd from his Moon. 9th lord Venus 
aspected 9th house and Ketu therein. Ketu and 9th house further 
received the aspect of Mars and Saturn. Ketu in 9th house 
aspected by 9th lord gave him the credit to reform an old religion 
of the land and propagate a better human religion in the same 
way as Lord Krishna having Ketu in 9th aspected by 9th lord 
Saturn was capable of reforming old religion of Vedic rites and 
introducing a better Hindu Philosophy. In case of Jesus Yoga 
Karaka Venus gave him the glory through medium of Ketu. As- 
pect of Saturn and Mars on Ketu crucified him at fag end of Ketu 
Dasa as Mars and Saturn are malefics to his Lagna but as Mars is 
a benefic for Pisces Rasi its aspect on Ketu added strength to 
Venusian aspect on Ketu in immortalizing Martyrdom of Jesus. In 
his case Janma Lagna dominated over Janma Rasi. 


(26) Mahatma Gandhi : His Janma Lagna was Libra 
and his Janma Rasi was Leo. Rahu in 10th from his Lagna was 
in Cancer whose lord Moon was in 11th from Lagna. It was in 
Rahu Maha Dasa that Gandhi became the pioneer of India’s Free- 
dom Movement. It was in Guru Maha Dasa that he launched 
Quit India Movement and his dream of India’s Independence was 
fulfilled. Rahu gave good results because of its good position from 
Lagna and its dispositor Moon forming Gaja Kesari Yoga. His 
dupiter in 8th from Lagna was not at all auspicious but Jupiter in 
10th from his Janma Rasi Simha was surely auspicious. As a 
result, Jupiter in its Maha Dasa, gave him so good results for 
about 11 years. But as his Jupiter, a malefic for Libra Lagna was 


142 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


aspected by Markesh Mars and as his 11th lord (also a Maraka) 
Sun was posited in 12th from Lagna, Lagnesh and 7th lord Mars. 
Gandhiji was assassinated in Guru Dasa Ravi Bhukti. Thus, 
Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi had an equally good say in his 
case. 


(27) Hyder Ali : His Janma Lagna was Libra and his 
danma Rasi was Scorpio. His Venus in 4th house was Digbali 
and the same was aspected by Yoga Karaka Saturn. No wonder, 
he reached the zenith of his political career in Sukra Maha Dasa. 
In his case results of Yoga Karaka Saturn also found their expres- 
sion through Venus in Sukra Maha Dasa. Further, Janma Lagna 
dominated in his case. 


(28) Akbar The Great : His Janma Lagna was Libra and 
his Janma Rasi was Gemini. It was in Sani Maha Dasa that 
Akbar’s career as an emperor reached its zenith. Venus and Sat- 
urn in Lagna caused Malavya, Sasa and Raj Rajeswara Yoga. In 
his case Yoga Karaka Sani in its Maha Dasa gave so highly good 
results. Also, Janma Lagna dominated in his case. 


(29) Chaitanya : His Janma Lagna was Libra and his 
Janma Rasi was Leo. He has exalted Mars in 4th from Lagna 
causing Ruchaka Yoga. Mars was in 6th from Moon aspecting 
the Moon. As Mars is a Yoga Karaka for Simha Rasi, Chaitanya 
came to prominence in Maha Dasa of Mars. Thus, Janma Rasi 
dominated in his case. 


(30) Henry Ford : His Janma Lagna was Scorpio and his 
Janma Rasi was Capricorn. It was in Maha Dasa of Jupiter Yoga 
Karaka from Lagna that he founded Ford Motor Company in 
Bhukti of Mars posited in 10th from Lagna and Jupiter in 11th 
from Lagna. Here, Janma Lagna dominated. It was however, in 
Maha Dasa of Mercury that Ford was able to make a further ex- 
pansion of his business. Mercury is a malefic for Scorpio Lagna. 
But it is 9th lord for Makara Rasi. Mercury in 7th from Moon 
caused Adhi Yoga also. Here Janma Rasi played the dominant 
role. Thus, Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi had an equally good 
say in his case. 


(31) Chitta Ranjan Dass : His Janma Lagna was Scor- 
pio and his Janma Rasi was Pisces. He reached the peak of his 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 143 


glory in Moon Maha Dasa. Moon is 9th lord from Janma Lagna 
and 5th lord from Janma Rasi. His Moon was strong in Paksha 
Bala. It was posited in 5th from Lagna and was aspected by ben- 
efic Mars. Dispositor of Moon, that is, Jupiter was placed in 4th 
from Moon causing Gaja Kesari Yoga. In Moon Maha Dasa he 
was elected the Congress President. It was in Moon Maha Dasa 
that Swaraj Party under his leadership contested the elections 
and captured majority of seats. Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi 
had an equal say in this case. 

(32) Dr. Rajendra Prasad : His Janma Lagna was Sag- 
ittarius and his Janma Rasi was Taurus. Lagna lord Jupiter in 
Leo in 9th from Lagna and in 4th from Moon causing Gaja Kesari 
Yoga made him a renowned advocate of India in Guru Maha 
Dasa. Saturn, a Yoga Karaka for his Janma Rasi Taurus, placed 
in 7th from Lagna and in 2nd from Moon made him the Congress 
President in its Maha Dasa. Mercury, 10th lord from Lagna and 
5th lord from Janma Rasi is combined with Mars, 5th lord from 
Lagna. Mars & Mercury combine in Lagna is unique in this case. 
Mars in 8th from Moon is not good but Mercury in 8th from Moon 
causes Adhi Yoga. Good position of Mercury from Lagna (mak- 
ing it Digbali) and also from Moon (causing Adhi Yoga) gave him 
the best result. [t was in Budha Maha Dasa that he was elected as 
the President of Indian Union for two consecutive terms. Thus, 
Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi had an equally good say in his 
case. 

(33) Vivekananda : His Janma Lagna was Sagittarius 

_and his Janma Rasi was Virgo. His Jupiter was placed in 11th 
from Lagna. Jupiter in 2nd from Moon caused Sunapa Yoga. He 
came to prominence in Maha Dasa of Lagna lord Guru. Janma 
Lagna dominated in his case but Chandra Yoga also lent support 
to it. 

(34) Emperor Nero : His Janma Lagna was Sagittarius 
and his Janma Rasi was Leo. Sun was admittedly the most aus- 
picious planet for him. Sun-Mercury combine in Lagna consti- 
tuted Raja Yoga from Lagna and Dhana Yoga from Janma Rasi. 
It was in Maha Dasa of Sun that he became the Emperor of Rome, 
a fabulously rich empire of the then world. Thus, Janma Lagna 
and Janma Rasi had an equally good hand in his case. 


144 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


- (35) H.G. Wells : His Janma Lagna was Capricorn and 
his Janma Rasi was Aquarius. Saturn, Venus and Mercury were 
Yoga Karaka for him. He came to prominence as a great literary 
giant in Budha Maha Dasa. Mercury in 7th from Moon causes 
Adhi Yoga. It is a Yoga for eminence in literary works. Mercury in 
8th from Lagna is a powerful Dhana Yoga and Vidhya Yoga. It 
gives wonderful success in novel-writing. Janma Lagna and Janma 
Rasi had an equally good say in his case. 


(36) Meher Baba : His Lagna was Capricom. His Janma 
Rasi was Libra. He had exalted Saturn. Moon-Saturn combine in 
10th house caused Sasa Yoga and Raja Yoga. It was in Sani 
Maha Dasa that he succeeded as spiritual successor to Upasani 
Maharaja’s throne and later he travelled Europe and America for 
spread of his cult in the same Sani Maha Dasa. Sani as Yoga 
Karaka from several points of view gave him eminence in its Maha 
Dasa. Janma Lagna, Janma Rasi and special Yogas have equally 
good say in this case. 


(37) Karl Marx : Aquarius was his Janma Lagna and Aries 
was his Janma Rasi. His Rahu was in Aries. Saturn in Lagna caused 
Sasa Yoga. Lagna lord Saturn aspected Rahu. Jupiter, 9th lord 
from Janma Rasi, also aspected Rahu. Rahu in Aries in 3rd gives 
grand success. Rahu when combined with luminaries become more 
prominent because of eclipses. It was, therefore, not strange that 
Marx came to prominence in Rahu Maha Dasa through his monu- 
mental works (writings) on Communism which were revolutionary 
yet, thoughtful with a clear message for a new sociopolitical order. 
He gave birth to a new Philosophy. Sun-Moon-Rahu combine in 
Aries in 3rd house made him a revolutionary through writing works. 
Aspect of Saturn on Rahu-Sun-Moon gave birth to a material phi- 
losophy. Aspect of Jupiter on Sun-Moon-Rahu made Marxism some- 
thing like a religion to its followers. Also, it made Marxism purpo- 
sive and welfare-oriented. In his case lordship from Janma Lagna 
and Janma Rasi had only indirect bearings as the involved planet 
was a shadowy one. 

(38) Abraham Lincon : His Janma Lagna was Aquarius 
and his Janma Rasi was Capricorn. Jupiter has not been held to 
be an auspicious planet for Capricorn and Aquarius born na- 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 145 


tives. It may seem strange to most of us how Guru Maha Dasa 
proved to be his real Yoga Karaka Dasa in his life when he was 
elected the President of U.S.A. for two consecutive terms. The 
only possible explanation could be that Yoga Karaka Venus ex- 
alted in Pisces was combined with Jupiter in 2nd from Lagna. 
Second house has also control over gain of high power. As Lincon 
was born in Sun Maha Dasa and Maha Dasa of Yoga Karaka 
Venus was to commence at the age of 117 years and Venus was 
not connected with Saturn, Mercury or any other planet except 
Jupiter, Venus had no other alternative but to transmit its good 
results through Jupiter Maha Dasa. Venus is influenced by Jupi- 
ter in two ways (a) It is posited in a sign of Jupiter (Pisces) which 
has given him exaltation (honour) (b) It is combined with Jupiter, 
lord of the house. Venus is fully obliged to Jupiter who is welcom- 
ing Venus in his house. Venus in return transfers all that it wants 
to give to the native only through Jupiter who is so homely to him 
(Venus). Thus, in this case a new theory seems to be working. If 
a Yoga Karaka planet is not capable of giving its results 
in its own Maha Dasa as it may not come in life of its 
native or may come at the fag end of native’s life then 
Yoga Karak may transfer its results through some other 
planet most intimated to him by position or some other 
valid reasons. Generally astrologers say that under the afore- 
said circumstances. Yoga Karaka will give results in its Bhukti in 
Maha Dasa of Planets akin to their nature. But I have found that 
under such conditions Yoga Karaka may opt the course priority 
as follows :- 


(i) It will give its results through any of the combining planets. 
(ii) It will give its results through planets aspected by it. 


(iii) If it is neither combined with nor aspecting any planet, it may 
give results through some other planet such as a planet tenanting 
his sign or similar in nature to it. 


Where more than one planet is involved, proper discretion is 
to be applied on the basis of experience. Common sense says that 
we are influenced, mostly by the persons living in same house, than 
by our neighbours, thereafter by persons away from us but within 
our sight. In astrology also a similar outlook will be desirable. 


146 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 
(39) Aurangzeb : 


His Janma Lagna was Aquarius and his Janma Rasi was 
Taurus. For Aquarius Venus is Yoga Karaka. For Taurus Saturn is 
Yoga Karaka. Jupiter is not a benefic for Taurus or Aquarius. But 
Aurangzeb came to power, in Guru Maha Dasa. As Lagna was 
tenanted by Jupiter and Saturn had its 10th house aspect on Ju- 
piter, Jupiter was deeply influenced by Saturn and in its Maha 
Dasa gave the results of Sani Maha Dasa. As Saturn owns 12th 
house, it kept Aurangzeb disturbed throughout Guru Dasa. It was 
only in Sani Maha Dasa that Aurangzeb was able to consolidate 
his position. 


As Aurangzeb was born in Sun Maha Dasa, Sukra Maha 
Dasa was not possible in his life. His Venus was not combined 
with any planet. Venus had no aspect on any planet. One of its 
sign, Taurus was tenanted by Saturn and Moon. The other sign 
Libra was tenanted by Sun and Mercury. Venus is enemy to Sun 
and Moon. Venus therefore, rejected them. As Mercury joined 
enemy Sun, so it was not very dependable. But Saturn was a 
dependable friend. Therefore, Venus opted to give its result mainly 
in Sani Maha Dasa. It was for this reason that his entire period of 
Budha Maha Dasa was a period of his fruitless efforts to conquer 
Deccan and as Budha is combined with Maraka lord Sun, and as 
Budha is also Maraka lord from Janma Rasi, Aurangzeb died in 
Sani Bhukti Budha Dasa. 


In his case Yoga Karaka from Janma Rasi Saturn, gave re- 
sults in its own Maha Dasa but Venus, Yoga Karaka from Lagna 
also gave its Yoga Karak results through medium of Saturn in Sani 
Maha Dasa as Saturn was the most dependable tenant of Venus. 


(40) Prophet Mohammad : His Janma Lagna was 
Aquarius. His Janma Rasi was Leo. He had Venus-Rahu com- 
bine in Taurus in 4th from Lagna and in 10th from Moon. Rahu 
in Taurus is held to be exalted. Venus in Kendra in Taurus causes 
Malavya Yoga. As Rahu combines with 9th lord Venus in a Kendra, 
it is causing Raja Yoga. 9th lord rules over religion. By joining 
with Venus Rahu was made to behave like Yoga Karaka Venus. It 
was in Rahu Maha Dasa that he launched his campaign for spread 
of a new religion called Islam. It was in Rahu Maha Dasa that he 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 147 


came to prominence as a prophet of Islam. In his case Yoga Karaka 
Venus from Lagna opted to give its results through medium of 
Rahu as Rahu was combined with Venus in a Venus’s sign. It 
may be noted that Venus Maha Dasa in his case passed off when 
he was only in his teenage. 


(41) Dt Eisenhower : His Janma lagna was Pisces and 
his Janma Rasi was Libra. He had Venus-Ketu combine in Scor- 
pio in 9th Lagna. Ketu in Scorpio is exalted. It is combined with 
Rasi lord Venus. Ketu has become a powerful Raja Yoga Karaka. 
It was in Ketu Maha Dasa that he was elected as the President of 
U.S.A. for two consecutive terms : Mars, dispositor of Ketu, is a 
Yoga Karaka for Pisces. In his case Yoga Karaka Mars from Lagna 
gave the results of its Maha Dasa through Ketu. Ketu is similar to 
Mars in nature. “Kujavat Ketu”. Venus is inimical to Mars. There- 
fore, Mars chose Ketu in preference to Venus to deputise him as 
Eisenhower born in Rahu Maha Dasa was not likely to get Maha 
Dasa of Mars in his life. Ketu Maha Dasa in essence gave him the 
results of Maha Dasa of Yoga Karaka Mars. 


Assessment : 


Out of 41 cases discussed here it was found that Janma 
Lagna and Janma Rasi were the same in 8 cases and in remain- 
ing 33 cases they were not the same. We shall describe them here 
as Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’. 


in Group ‘A’ it was found that in six out of 8 cases best re- 
sults accrued to in Maha Dasa of Yoga Karakas. They are the 
cases of Tennyson. Queen Victoria, Rama Krishna Parama 
Hamsa, Rabindra Nath Tagore, George Bernard Shaw and 
Jawahar Lal Nehru. Of the remaining two in one case i.e. Rajiv 
Gandhi, Maha Dasa of Yoga Karaka Mars ending on 30.11.81 
itself brought him to politics on death of Sanjay Gandhi but he 
was made the Prime Minister in Maha Dasa of Rahu due to spe- 
cial Yogas caused by its dispositor Moon, namely, Maha Shakti 
Yoga, Gaja Kesari Yoga and Anapha Yoga. In the other case, that 
is, lord Krishna, Yoga Karaka Maha Dasas of Saturn and Budha 
no doubt gave him sufficient material prosperity as lord of fabu- 
lously rich Dwarika Puri but as we know that wealth and power 
make a person great only for some time. A person becomes im- 


148 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


mortal only when he does some memorable deeds. It was in Ketu 
Maha Dasa that Lord Krishna gave a new orientation to Hindu 
Philosophy by preaching the doctrine of Nishkama Karma. 
Shrimad Bhagawat Gita uttered by Lord Krishna became the new 
Bible of the Hindus and the Vedas remained no better than the 
old Bible for the Hindus. Lord Krishna is the Father of Neo-Hin- 
duism. As his Ketu was posited in 9th house and was aspected by 
Yoga Karak Saturn (9th-cum-10th lord) and Lagna lord Venus, it 
was Ketu Maha Dasa that made him a national figure forever. 
Ketu in 9th aspected by 9th lord or Karak Jupiter gives birth to a 
native who will rise to great fame in a crisis. In a way, in Gruop 
‘A cases Yoga Karak Dasas had 100 p.c. success. 


In Gruop ‘B’ 33 cases are involved. In 27 cases namely 
Alexander, Omar Khayyam, J.C. Bose, Morarji Desai, Einstein, 
Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Indira Gandhi, V.P. Singh, Arbind 
Ghose, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Lord Buddha, Aadi Shankar, Guru 
Nanak, Shivaji, Narasimha Rao, Karamchand Gandhi, Hyder Ali, 
Akber, Chaitanya, Ford, C.R. Dass, Rajendra Prasad, Viveknand, 
Nero, H.G. Wells, Meher Baba and Aurangzeb, Yogakarak Dasas 
gave it the best results. Of these 27 cases, 5 cases are such in 
which only Yoga Karak Dasas from Janma Rashi gave the best 
results. They are the cases of Alexander, V.P Singh, Lord Budha, 
Chaitanya and Nara Simha Rao. On examination, it was found 
that in their cases Yoga Karak Dasas from Lagna passed either in 
early part of their life or it was not likely to come in their life as per 
their possible life-span. Therefore Yoga Karak Dasas from their 
danma Rashi became more active in giving them the best of their 
lots. I firmly hold the view that one must be getting what 
is allotted to him at the scheduled time. If Yoga Karak 
Dasa from Janma Lagna is not possible at that time the 
native will not miss to get the results as misconceived by 
many astrologers. Rather, Yoga Karak Dasa from his Janma 
Rasi or Dasa of Nodes deeply connected with Yoga Karakas 
or Dasa of planets causing speical Yogas will come in 
motion to give due results. Alexander was born in Aries Lagna 
with a balance of about 6 years of Guru Maha Dasa. He had Alpayu 
Yoga. Next Subha Dasas of Sun and Mars were not possible to 
come in his life and therefore, Yoga karak Sani Dasa from his 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 149 


danma Rasi Tula gave him glory. 


V.P. Singh born in Cancer Lagna with a balance of about 16 
years of Rahu Dasa enjoyed the first taste of Yoga Karak in Guru 
Dasa till the age of 33 years. Other Yoga Karak Dasa of Mars is 
not possible in his life. Naturally, Yoga Karak Dasas of Sani and 
Budha from his Janma Rasi Tula gave him a political career. 
Budha Dasa made him the Prime Minister. Gautam Buddha born 
in Cancer Lagna with a balance of about 15 years of Guru Dasa 
spent a royal life in this Dasa. Next Yoga Karak Dasa of Mars was 
not possible in his life. Therefore, Yoga Karak Dasas of Sani and 
Budha from his Janma Rasi Tula gave him the best results. He got 
enlightenment and spread his religion in Sani Dasa. In Budha 
Dasa he got more and more success. 


Narasimha Rao born in Virgo Lagna with a balance of about 
9 years of Sani Dasa, no doubt began his political career in yoga 
karak Sukra Dasa. But as he was destined to be more important 
in advanced age, Yoga Karak Dasas of Moon and Mars from his 
danma Rasi Pisces brought him in Central Govt. He became the 
Prime Minister in Mars Dasa. Chaitanya was born in Libra Lagna 
with a balance of about 6 years of Sukra Maha Dasa. He had 
Madhya Aayu. Yoga Karak Dasas of Sani and Budha were not 
possible in his life and, therefore, Yoga Karak Dasa of Mars from 
his Janma Rasi Simha gave him the best results. Any way, it is 
but apparent that Yoga Karakas from Janma Rasi have also great 
values. 


In Group ‘B’ we have 8 cases where Yoga Karakas from 
Janma Lagna only gave the best results. They are the cases of 
Omar Khayyam, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Aadi Sankara, 
Guru Nanak, Shivaji, Hyder Ali, Akbar and Vivekanand. In 14 
cases, namely J.C. Bose, Morarji Desai, Einstein, Indira Gandhi, 
Arbind Ghose, B.G. Tilak, Gandhiji, Henry Ford, C.R. Dass, 
Rajendra Prasad, Nero, H.G. Wells, Meher Baba and Aurangzeb, 
Yogakaraks from both Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi gave equally 
good results. These 22 cases need no further probe as they prove 
that yogakaraks from Janma Lagna gave best results in 22 out of 
33 cases from Gruop ‘B’. 


In Gruop ‘B’ we have 6 such cases where Yogakaraks from 


150 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Janma Lagna or Janma Rasi failed to give the best results. Other 
factors worked there . They are the cases of Jesus Christ, Prophet 
Muhammad, Karl Marx, Eisenhower, Arjun Singh and Abraham 
Lincon. In first 4 cases nodes deeply influenced by Yogakaraks 
gave the best results. In 5th case, planet associated with Yogakaraks 
gave the best result. In 6th case planets associated with special 
combination gave the best result. We shall probe these cases in 
depth. Jesus Christ was born in Virgo Lagna with a balance of 
about 14 years of Sani Dasa. He had Alpayu Yoga and Dasa of 
Yoga Karak Venus seemed to be not possible in his life. His Janma 
Rasi was Pisces. Yoga Karaka Dasas of Moon and Mars from his 
Janma Rasi were still not possible in his life. His Ketu in 9th from 
Lagna and in 3rd from Moon was aspected by 9th lord Venus 
from Lagna and 9th lord Mars from Janma Rasi. Aspect of two 
9th lords made Jesus the founder of a great religion of the world 
in Ketu Maha Dasa. Mars is an evil from his Janma Lagna. As- 
pect of 8th lord Mars on Ketu aided by aspect of 6th lord on the 
same got him crucified in Dasa Chhidra of Ketu. Prophet 
Mahammad was born in Aquarius Lagna with a balance of about 
15 years of Venus Maha Dasa. Dasa of best Yogakarak Venus 
from Lagna passed in his early life. Dasa of Mercury was not 
possible in his life. Dasa of Yogakarak Mars from his Janma Rasi 
Leo was spoiled as Mars was debilitated and placed in 12th from 
Moon. His Rahu in 4th combined with 9th lord Venus from Lagna 
and aspected by Lagnesh Saturn became most benefic. It was in 
Rahu Dasa that he founded Islam, a great religion of the world 
and became immortal like Jesus Christ. Marx was bor in Aquarius 
Lagna with a balance of about 4 years of Venus Maha Dasa. 
Maha Dasa of Yogakarak Venus from Lagna passed in his early 
childhood. Dasa of Budha was not possible in his life. His Janma 
Rasi being Aries Sun and Jupiter were his Yogakaraks. Dasa of 
Sun fell in his childhood. Dasa of Mars created interest in Eco- 
nomics. His Rahu was in Aries in Janma Rasi combined with 5th 
lord from Janma Rasi. Rahu was posited in 3rd from Lagna. Rahu 
was aspected by Lagna lord Sani and 9th lord Jupiter from Rasi. 
Impact of useful planets from Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi num- 
bering four on Rahu made Rahu Dasa as the best part of his life. 
It was in Rahu Dasa that Marxism was founded with the publica- 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 151 


tion of his communist Manifesto. It is true that he continued his 
activities even in Guru and Sani Dasas but Rahu Dasa made 
him famous in true sense. Eisenhower was born in Pisces Lagna 
with a balance of about 10 years of Rahu Dasa. For Pisces Lagna 
Mars and Moon are Yogakaraks. Their Dasas were not possible 
in his life. Even Dasa of Guru was to expire at the age of 26. His 
Janma Rasi was Libra. Saturn was its Yogakarak. No doubt, 
Saturn Dasa made him a famous General Benefic Budha from 
Janma Rasi in its Dasa gave him still more important assign- 
ments. His Ketu in 9th from Lagna was combined with Rashish 
Venus. Ketu is exalted in 9th from Lagna and in 2nd from Moon. 
Ketu Dasa further exalted his position. He was elected the Presi- 
dent of U.S.A. for two consecutive terms. Arjun singh was born 
in Gemini Lagna with a balance of about two years of Ketu Dasa. 
For Gemini Lagna Venus is Yoga Karaka. Venus Dasa passed at 
his age of 22 years. His Janma Rasi Aries for which Sun is best 
Yogakarak and Jupiter is the next auspicious planet. Dasas of 
Sun and Mars gave him a political career. It was however, in 
Rahu Maha Dasa that he came to real power. His Rahu is pos- 
ited in Janma Rasi in 11th from Janma Lagna. 2nd Lord also 
gives power. 2nd Lord Moon alongwith Rahu in 11th gives pro- 
motion in career but Sun-Ketu in 5th is also a Chhatra Bhanga. 
Mercury-Ketu combine in 5th is definitely a Raja Yoga. All these 
explain for frequent changes in his career and fortune. Aspect of 
10th lord Jupiter on Sun-Mercury-Ketu, has two Chief impacts (a) 
it has lent strength to Raja-Yoga caused by Mercury-Ketu com- 
bine (b) It has saved the native from political bewilderment inspite 
of Sun-Ketu causing fear of fall from power. Those who have stud- 
ied his political career minutely will appreciate my point. Mutual 
aspect between Jupiter and Satum is significant for him. On the 
one hand mutual aspect between 9th and 10th lord promises ac- 
cretion to still higher position, on the other hand mutual aspect 
between 8th lord and 10th lord indicates his down fall. Mutual 
aspect between 7th and 8th lord, 8th lord in 7th aspected by 7th 
lord and aspect of debilitated evil Mars on 8th and 9th house do 
not augur well for his life and safety. At present, he is running 
Guru Bhukti in Guru Dasa. Sani Bhukti in Guru Dasa is very 
complicated for him. If he can survive Sani Bhukti, Bhuktis of 


152 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Budha and Ketu are somewhat better for accretion to more power. 
But aspect of 2nd lord Moon on Budha and Ketu are equally harm: 
ful for his life and well-being. 

Abraham Lincon was born in Aquarius Lagna with a bal- 
ance of about 2 years of Sun Dasa. Dasa of Yogakarak Venus 
from Lagna was not possible to come in his life. Dasa of Yogakarak 
Mercury from Janma Rasi was possible after the age of 53 years 
provided he could survive Sani Dasa as Saturn was aspected by 
Markesh Guru and presence of Mars and Rahu in 12th house 
Saturn was dangerous. Jupiter in 2nd house in own sign was 
combined with Yogakarak Venus in exaltation. Venus gave its 
results in Dasa of Guru. In Guru Dasa Lincon was elected the 
President of U.S.A. for two consecutive terms but in Sani Dasa 
Sani Bhukti he was also assassinated. 


Out of 41 cases Yoga Karaks from Lagna gave the best re- 
sults in 30 cases. It means percentage of success was 70% here. 
Out of 41 cases, Yoga Karaks from Janma Rasi gave the best 
results in 27 cases. It means, percentage of success was 63% 
here. If we combine Lagna and Janma Rasi, it denotes success’ in 
35 out of 41 cases. It means, percentage of success will increase 
upto 80%. What | mean to say is that if we make a concerted 
study both from Lagna and Janma Rasi, we may be able to hit 
the correct bull in about 80% cases. 


In about 41 cases nodes deeply influenced by Yogakaraks 
gave excellent results. Percentage of success was 14%. In one 
case planet other than node deeply influenced by Yoga Karaka 
was 3%. It means, Yoga Karaks through medium of other Grahas 
convey their results in 17% of cases. 

If we add 80% of. direct influences with 17% of indirect in- 
fluences, we find that Yoga Karak Grahas have definite hands in 
giving the best results in 97% of cases. It is only in 3% of cases 
that we may have to seek an answer from other sources. 

By and large, Yogakarak Grahas in wider perspective have 
been found to be giving correct results directly or indirectly in 
97% of cases which is an extraordinary achievement of Parasari 
Dasa system. 


Recently, an instance of failure of Vimsottari Dasa has been 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 153 


cited. It has been said that downfall and regain of power by Mrs. 
Indira Gandhi, were not explainable by Vimsottari Dasa and that 
she was ruled by Shodasottari Dasa system. Such critics how- 
ever, have failed to apply a multi-pronged yardstick required for 
the purpose. | am showing that Parasara has said that Janma 
Lagna and Janma Rasi have almost an equal say in determining 
the future of a native. Mutural exchange of houses between her 
Lagna lord Moon and Rashish Saturn with mutual aspect in 1/7 
axis had made her Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi equally impor- 
tant. It had caused Maha Yoga also. Her Janma Lagna received 
the aspect of Lagnesh Moon only but her Janma Rasi received 
the aspect of Rashish Saturn and Jupiter, two superior planets. 
Her Janma Rasi became rather more powerful than her Janma 
Lagna. We all know that by nature she was more a Capricornian 
than a Cancerian. Capricornians by nature are more diplomatic 
and less emotional. They are pragmatic. On the other hand 
Cancerians are more fanciful, more idealistic & more emotional 
and hence liable to be more cheated. Her father Jawaharlal Nehru 
was a pure Cancerian as his Janma Lagna and Janma Rasi were 
the same, that is, Cancer and as such he came to power in Maha 
Dasa of Yogakarak Mars, both from his Janma Lagna and Janma 
Rasi. But in case of Mrs. Indira Gandhi 9th lord from Lagna Ju- 
piter in its Maha Dasa brought her to power and benefic Rashish 
, Saturn in its Maha Dasa consolidated her position, made her a 
greater historic figure than any other Prime Minister of India, gave 
her a downfall and then regain of power (both) and at last her 
martyrdom. 


At fag-end or Sani Bhukti in Guru Dasa she was elected the 
Congress President and functioned over this post in Budha Bhukti. 
Saturn in 3rd from Jupiter was Good. Mercury in 7th from Jupiter 
was good. Rashish Saturn and Bhagyesh Mercury from her Janma 
Rasi, because of their good position from Dasa-lord Jupiter, 
Janma Rasi and Janma Lagna, gave her so good results. In Sukra 
Bhukti Gruru Dasa her father Jawaharlal Nehru died. 
Shadashtaka relation between Venus and Jupiter stood as a great 
stumbling block in her way to succeed her father in May, 1964. A 
few months thereafter in Sukra Bhukti itself she became the 
information and Broadcasting Minister in Shastri Government as 


154 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Venus in 6th from Lagna constituted partial Adhi Yoga whereas 
Venus in 2nd from Moon constituted Sunapha Yoga. She had 
both good and bad experiences in this Bhukti. It was in Guru 
Dasa Chandra Bhukti that she was sworn in as the Prime Minister 
for the first time in January, 1966 when the Sun (2nd lord) was in 
Capricorn (her Janma Rasi). Her Lagna lord Moon was in Kendra 
from Lagna and was in 9th from Dasa-lord Jupiter, who also 
aspected the Moon. In subsequent Bhukti of Mars she had to face 
hurdles from inside the Congress as her Mars was posited in 8th 
from her Moon. But as Mars, Yogakarak from Lagna was in friendly 
Leo sign and in Kendra from Dasa lord Guru she skillfully 
managed to control them. [n Mars Bhukti Jupiter Dasa 4th Lok 
Sabha Poll, was held and Mrs Gandhi was returned to power for 
the second time as the Prime Minister of India. Bhukti of Yogakarak 
Mars in Dasa of 9th lord Jupiter from Janma Lagna gave her the 
opportunity to rule over India for five years. In Rahu Bhukti Guru 
Dasa dissidents under leadership of Sri Morarji Desai threatened 
her position as her Rahu was posited in 8th from Dasa lord Guru. 
But as Rahu in 6th from Lagna ensures defeat of enemies and 
opponents and also as dispositor of Rahu, Jupiter, none else but 
Dasa-lord was placed in house of gains from Lagna and in 5th 
from Janma Rasi and also as Rahu was combined with Venus, 
dispositor of Jupiter, and 5th lord from Janma Rasi, Mrs. Indira 
Gandhi was able to show Waterloo to her opponents. lt may please 
be noted that both Rahu and Venus are diplomatic Grahas par 
excellence. In Rahu Bhukti she managed to have a secret pact 
with leftists. She nationalized the Banks in 1969. Dissidents lost 
the battle against her. Congress was divided but her ways were 
made clear for enforcing more socialistic measures. 

Saturn may be a malefic and a strong Markesh for Cancer 
Lagna but for Capricorn Lagna Saturn is a benefic though it may 
also act as Markesh for Capricorn Lagna. Mutual aspect between 
Lagnesh Moon and Rashish Saturn in her case was powerful Raja 
Yoga. Exchange of house between Lagnesh Moon and 7th lord 
Saturn was a powerful Maha Yoga. As she had spent her Moon 
Dasa in her childhood it was but obvious that other constituent of 
Maha Yoga viz. Saturn will only make her a great figure in Indian 
history in true sense of the term in its Maha Dasa. But as Saturn 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 155 


was a Marak both from her Lagna and Janma Rasi and as per 
Lagna and Lagnesh were afflicted by Saturn and 2nd and 8th 
from Lagna were afflicted by Mars a glorious death was also writ- 
ten large on her forehead in Sani Maha Dasa itself. 

In Sani Bhukti Sani Dasa she did such a great work that 
she will be always remembered in the Indian history. If Sardar 
Patel is to be remembered for unification and integration of In- 
dia, Indira Gandhi will be remembered for reducing Pakistan to 
its half size. Gandhi, Nehru and Patel yielded to partition of In- 
dia. Nehru’s week and wrong policy resulted in loss of Indian 
territory in Jammu-Kashmir and in Himalayan tract. But in De- 
cember, 1971, Indo-Pak war, she got a tremendous victory over 
Pakistan and set free East Pakistan. Pakistan was almost halved. 
It was weakened for ever. She taught such a fine lesson to Paki- 
stan and made her so weak strategically that Pakistan has not 
dared to attack India during last 23 years whereas in preceding 
24 years Pakistan invaded India thrice and China invaded once. 
After Indo-Pak War Lok Sabha Polls were held in 1972 in which 
she came to power with a thumping majority. This also hap- 
pened in Sani Bhukti. 

In Budha Bhukti Sani Dasa in the year 1974 she succeeded 
in making India the 6th Nuclear Power in the world for which 
also she will be remembered in the Indian history. Mercury, 9th 
lord from her Janma Rasi, was combined with Gyana-Vigyana 
Karak Sun. From Lagna Sun is 2nd lord and from Janma Rashi it 
is 8th lord. 8th lordship may be bad for other things but it is ex- 
tremely favourable, for scientific success. Sun-Mercury combine 
in 5th from Lagna and Dasa lord Saturn in 11th from Janma- 
Rasi aspected by Jupiter made Budha Bhukti so favourable for 
her grand achievement in nuclear field. Budha Bhukti added an- 
other golden feather to her cap of glory. In Budha Bhukti itself 
after a year of her nuclear success in the year 1975, her Lok Sabha 
election was set aside. She imposed Emergency in June, 1975. 
She went to the Supreme Court where she got a lease of her po- 
litical life. Evil lordship of 12th house occupied by incendiary Ketu 
from Lagna, and 6th lordship from Janma Rasi tended Mercury 
to cause her displacement and dislodgement but aspect of Jupiter 
(in th form of a favourable Supreme Court Order) on her Sun and 


156 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Mercury kept her well intact in power in Budha Bhukti Sani Dasa. 

Ketu Bhukti in Sani Dasa was inauspicious as Ketu was pos- 
ited in 12th both from her Lagna and Dasa lord Sani but Ketu in 
6th from Janma Rasi was favourable. Ketu Bhukti began on 
27.05.76 and ended on 06.07.77. Due to good position of Ketu 
from her Janma Rashi she stayed in power for about 10 months 
in Ketu Bhukti. In March, 1977 Lok Sabha Poll she was ousted 
from power in Ketu Bhukti. She had to face other humiliations 
too in rest of Ketu Dasa. 


In Sukra Bhukti Sani Dasa (06.07.77 to 06.09.80) circum- 
stances gradually began to swing in favour of Indira Gandhi with 
rift amongst various constituents of Janta Party. In July, 1979 
Janta Party Government at Center, collapsed by Indira Gandhi’s 
manipulations. Charan Singh was installed as the Interim Prime 
Minister as per Indira Gandhi's Plan. In mid-term Lok Sabha Poll 
she came back to power and was sworn in as the Prime Minister 
on 14th January, 1980. Some astrologers have shown bewilder- 
ment at this result and have expressed their views that such good 
results were never possible in Sukra Bhukti Sani Dasa. Perhaps, 
they thought that Sukra and Sani being malefics for Cancer Lagna 
and Sukra being placed in 6th from Lagna and Sani and also 
afflicted by Rahu were not worth consideration for regain of 
power. Such critics, however, failed to note that Venus in 2nd 
from Moon caused Sunapha Yoga. Venus in 6th from Lagna also 
caused partial Adhi Yogas. It may please be noted that Parasar 
has given more weightage to Chandra-Krita yogas in Compari- 
son to other yogas. According to him, Chandra Yogas may cancel 
other good or bad yogas and therefore, they must be examined 
on first hand. 


1. Lord Sri Krishna : Born on 19th July 3228 B.C. at 
midnight. Lat 27°25* N long 77°41°* E. 

Planetary Positions : Sun 139°48° Moon 47°42* Mars 
91°06*; Mercury 152°48° Jupiter 148°54* Venus 102°54* Sat- 
um 224°42~ Rahu 106°24> Lagna 50° Born in Maha Dasha of 
Moon with a balance of 4 years 2 months 21 days. 

2. Lord Tennyson : Born on 6th August 1809 at about 
11:45 PM. Lat 53°32* N, Long 0°24> W. 


_ Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 157 


Planetary Positions : Sun 113° 45> Moon 53°45°> Mars 
196°45* Mercury 95°45° Jupiter 04°45~ Venus 67°45° Saturn 
217°45> Rahu 187°36°> Ketu 07°36 Lagna 55° Born in Rahu 
Maha Dasha with a balance of 6 years 1 month 26 days. 

3. Queen Victoria : Born on 23rd/24th May 1819 at 4:04 
AM. (L.M.T.) Lat 51°30° N Long 0°05* W. 

Planetary positions : Sun 42°13*> Moon 43°40° Mars 
357°42*> Mercury 19°02* Jupiter 297°04* Venus 06°45*> Saturn 
338°53°> Rahu 358°17* Ketu 168°17> Lagna 41°19* Born in 
Moon’s Maha Dasha with a balance of 7 years 3 months only. 


4. Rama Krishna Param Hamsa : Born on 18th February 
1836 at about 6:23 A.M. 1.S.T. Lat 22°53° N & Long. 87°44° E. In 
Maha Dasha of Jupiter with a balance of 12 years Imonth 6days. 


Planetary positions : Sun 308°19° Moon 323°15> Mars 
293°09° Mercury 316°33°> Jupiter 76°02* Venus 339°29° Saturn 
195°10° Rahu 214°20° Ketu 34°20° Lagna 304°53* Ayanamsa 
20°06°. 

5. George Bernard Shaw : Bor on 26th July 1856 A.D. 
at about midnight Lat 53°02* N long 6°16*> W in Maha Dasha of 
Moon with a balance of 6 years 6 months 18 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 103°36°>; Moon 44°36°; Mars 
186°36°; Mercury 88°36°; Jupiter 348°36°; Venus 105°36°; Sat- 
um 77°36°; Rahu 358°14°; Ketu 178°14°; Lagna 44°36"; 
Ayanamsa 20°24°. 

6. Rabindra Nath Tagore : Born on 7th May 1861 at 
2:51 A.M. (L.M.T.) Lat 22°40° N long 88°30° E in Maha Dasha 
of Mercury with a balance of 16 years 2 months 20 days. 

Planetary Positions : Sun 25°48°; Moon 351°59°; Mars 
61°35°; Mercury 9°18>; Jupiter 117°24°; Venus 24°32*; Saturn 
132°37° ; Rahu 266°17°; Ketu 86°17>; Lagna 336°09° ; Ayanamsa 
20°28>. 

7. Jawahar Lal Nehru : Born on 14th November 1889 at 
11:03 PM. (L.M.T.) Lat 25°25> N long 82°E in Maha Dasha of 
Mercury with a balance of 13 years 7months 6 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 211°43°; Moon 109°20°; Mars 


158 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


161°25*; Mercury 198°35*; Jupiter 256°38°; Venus 188°48°; Sat- 
um 132°15*; Rahu 74°10°; Ketu 254°10°; Lagna 114°25°; 
Ayanamsa 20°52>. 


8. Rajiv Gandhi : Born on 20.08.1944 at 09:14 hours at 
18°58°N 72°50°E. 

Planetary Positions : Leo-Lagna 29°28” Sun 3°51’58"; 
Venus 18°42’38"; Moon 17°39’58"; Mercury 28°35'16”; Jupiter 
12°12’47", Cancer-Rahu 04°25'33” Gemini Saturn 14°13'26"; 
Virgo-Mars 1°14’. 

9. Alexander The Greats : Born on 22nd July 356 B.C. 
between 10 and 12 night Lat 40°43’N Long 22°35’E in Maha 
Dasa of Jupiter with a balance of 5 years 9 months 11 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 123°35’; Moon 208°31’; Mars 
86°18’; Mercury 105°31’; Jupiter 185°54’; Venus 126°20’; Saturn 
59°54’, Rahu 314°02’; Ketu 134°02’; Lagna 19°31’; Ayanamsa 
10°32’. 

10. Omar Khayyam : Bom on 18th May 1048 A.D. (0.S) 
at 4:48 A.M. (L.M.T.) Lat 36°13N’, Long 58°45’E in Rahu Maha 
Dasha with a balance of 0 year Imonth 18 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 53°12’; Mars 28°36’; Mercury 
57°36’, Jupiter 297°; Venus 67°; Saturn 278°48’; Rahu 161°06’; 
Lagna 49°01’; Moon 79°54’; Ketu 341° 06’. 


11. Jagadish Chandra Bose : Bom on 30th November 
1858 A.D. at 4:25 PM: (L.M.T.) (Long 90°02’E Lat 23°33’N) in 
Moon Maha Dasha with a balance of 2 years 3 months only. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 227°01’; Moon 170°; Mars 
291°52'; Mercury 243°48’; Jupiter 56°39’; Venus 247°38’, Saturn 
111917’; Rahu 312°49’; Ketu 132°49’; Lagna 32°. 

12. Morarji Desai : Born on 29.02.1896 at 1:00 Noon 
(L.M.T.) at 20°36’N & 77°59’E in Sukra Maha Dasha with bal- 
ance of 0 year 4 months 6 days. 

Planetary Positions : Lagna 70°; Sun 318°; Moon 146°; 
Mars 275°15’; Mercury 292°; Jupiter 97°39’ (R); Venus 285°; Sat- 
urn 206°41’ (R); Rahu 311°12’; Ketu 131712’. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha : 159 


13. Albert Einstein : Bom on 14th March 1879 at 11:30 
A.M. (L.M.T.) Lat 48°24’N Long 10°E in Budha Maha Dasha with 
a balance of 7 years 10 months 26 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 332°46’, Moon 233°48’; Mars 
276°12’; Mercury 342°25’, Jupiter 306°44’; Venus 358°16’; Sat- 
urn 333°28’; Rahu 280°46’; Ketu 100°46’; Lagna 81°47’. 

14. Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose : Born on 23rd Janu- 
ary 1897 at about 12 Noon (L.M.T.) (Long 5°44’E Lat 20°38’N) 
in Maha Dasha of Sun with a balance of 0 year 4 months 15 
days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 282°23’; Moon 159°16’, Mars 
50°55’; Mercury 279°56’; Jupiter 137°55’; Venus 327°59’; Saturn 
218°05’; Rahu 295° Ketu 115° Lagna 8°24’. 


15. Arjun Singh : Born on 5.11.1930 at 8:57 PM. at 
24°32/’N & 81°08’E in Maha Dasha of Ketu with a balance of 1 
year 7 months 19 days. 


Planetary Positions : Lagna 74°54’; Moon 10°13’; Sun 
- 199°37’; Mercury 198°43’; Venus 224°(R); Mars 104°9’; Jupiter 
87°53'(R); Saturn 254°53’; Rahu 359°40’; Ketu 179°40’. 

16. Indira Gandhi : Born on 19.11.1917 at 11:13 PM. 
(I.S.T.) at 25°27’N & 81°51’E in Sun’s Maha Dasha with a bal- 
ance of 1 year 3 months 25 days. 


Planetary Positions : Cancer-Lagna and Saturn; Leo- 
Mars; Scorpio-Sun and Mercury; Sagittarius-Venus and Rahu; 
Capricorn-Moon; Taurus-Jupiter; Gemini-Ketu. 

17. Vishwanath Pratap Singh : Born on 25.06.1931 at 
7:20 A.M. (1.S.T.) at 25°27’N & 31°50’E in Maha Dasha of Rahu 
with a balance of 16 years 0 month 24 days. 

Planetary Positions : Lagna 38°04’; Moon 188°05’; Sun 
71°06’, Mercury 65°19’; Venus 50°49’; Mars 136°26’; Jupiter 
-93°41’; Saturn 269°43'(R); Rahu 348°53’; Ketu 168°53’. 

18. Aurbindo Ghose : Born on 15th August 1872 at 5:17 
A.M. (L.M.T.) at Lat 22°30’N & Long 88°20’E in Ketu Maha Dasha 
with a balance of 3 years 2 months 22 days. 


160 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Planetary Positions : Sun 121°47'; Moon 247°11’; Mars 
95°60’; Mercury 144°57’; Jupiter 113°02’; Venus 129°59’; Saturn 
265°02’; Rahu 48°04’; Ketu 228°04’; Lagna 116°42’. 

19. Bal Gangadhar Tilak : Born on 23rd July 1856 at 
6:24 A.M. (L.M.T.) (Lat 18°32’N & Long 73°53’E) in Maha Dasha 
of Mercury with a balance of 13 years 8 months 14 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 99°55’; Moon 349°15'; Mars 
185°10'; Mercury 82°32’; Jupiter 348°44’; Venus 100°24’; Saturn 
76°53", Rahu 358°57’; Ketu 178°57'; Lagna 110°23’. 


20. Lord Buddha : Born on 14th April 623 B.C. at about 
mid day (Lat 27°08’N & Long 83°05’E) in Maha Dasha of Jupi- 
ter with a balance of 15 years 1 month 6 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 29°03’; Moon 200°45’; Mars 
26°54’ Mercury 53°06’; Jupiter 11°; Venus 6°12’; Saturn 24°36’; 
Rahu 86°54’, Lagna 116°45’; Ketu 266°54’. 


21. Aadi Shankaracharya : Born on 25th March 44 B.C. 
at about Noon (Lat 8°29’N & Long 76°59’E) in Rahu Maha Dasha 
with a balance of 14 years 6 months 29 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 8°12’; Moon 69°12’; Mars 
332°36’, Mercury 24°06’; Jupiter 303°36’; Venus 03°; Saturn 
265°30'; Rahu 41°18’; Lagna 99°22’; Ketu 221°18’. 


22. Guru Nanak : Born on 8th November 1470 (O.S.) at 
midnight (L.M.T.) (Lat 31°39’N & Long 74°47’E) in Sun’s Maha 
Dasha with a balance of 0 year 9 months 23 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 220°30’; Moon 38°18’; Mars 
211°24’; Mercury 232°24'; Jupiter 164°30’; Venus 186°; Saturn 
39°06’; Rahu 263°48’; Lagna 136°28’; Ketu 83°48’. 

23. Shivajee The Great : Born on 19th February 1630 - 
A.D. (O.S.) at 6:26 BM. (L.M.T.) (Lat 18°32’N & Long 73°53’E) 
in Maha Dasha of Mars with a balance of 4 years 1 month 17 
days. 

Planetary Positions : Sun 323°56’; Moon 178°48'; Mars 
76°37’, Mercury 338°10'; Jupiter 307°19’; Venus 10°01’; Saturn 
197°37'; Rahu 60°49’, Lagna 149°09’; Ketu 240°49’. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 161 


24. P. V. Narasimha Rao : Born on 28.06.1921 at 1:00 
PM.1.S.T. at Lat 18°N & Long 79°35’E in Maha Dasha of Saturn 
with a balance of 6 years 7 months 25 days. 


Planetary Positions : Lagna 175°46’; Moon 341°59’, Sun 
74°43’; Mercury 89°08’ (R); Venus 29°07’: Mars 74°59’; Jupiter 
141°31’; Saturn 147°52’, Rahu 182°14’; Ketu 02°14’. 


25. Jesus Christ : Born on 25th December 7 B.C. on 
Friday at about 10:18 PM. (A.V.C. 747) (Lat 31°43’N & Long 
35°13’E) in Maha Dasha of Saturn with a balance of 14 years 0 
month 21 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 247°59’; Moon 336°41’; Mars 
314°29’; Mercury 255°58’; Jupiter 353°17’; Venus 233°01’; Sat- 
ur 351°47’; Rahu 210°35’; Lagna 165°29’; Ketu 30°35’. 


26. Mahatma Gandhi : Born on 2nd October 1869 at 
7:45 A.M. (L.M.T.) (Lat 21°37’N & Long 69°49’E) in Maha Dasha 
of Ketu with a balance of 6 years 10 months 28 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 168°22’; Moon 120°10’; Mars 
207°39’; Mercury 193°09’; Jupiter 30°25’; Venus 205°53’, Saturn 
229°57’, Rahu 103°36’; Lagna 193°14’; Ketu 283°36’. 


27. Hyder Ali : Born on Saturday, December 8, 1722 A.D. 
(N.S.) at 2:15 A.M. (L.M.T.) (Lat 13°N & Long 5h. 10m. 20s.E) 
in Budha Maha Dasha with a balance of 15 years 8 months 6 
days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 237°24'; Moon 227°42’, Mars 
222°05'; Mercury 216°42’; Jupiter 238°12’, Venus 281°41’; Sat- 
urn 239°58’; Rahu 65°12’; Ketu 245°12’; Lagna 182°28’. 


28. Akbar The Great : Born on 23rd/24th November 
1542 A.D. (O.S.) at 4:09 A.M. (L.M.T.) (Lat 25°19’_N & Long 
69°47’E) in Maha Dasha of Rahu with a balance of 13 years 3 
months 1 day. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 235°12’; Moon 70°0'; Mars 
294°42’; Mercury 251°30’; Jupiter 187°18’; Venus 200°02’; Sat- 
urn 209°12’; Rahu 309°36’; Ketu 129°36’. Lagna 203°22’. 


162 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha — 


29. Chaitanya Maha Prabhu : Born on 18th February 
1486 A.D. (O.S.) at 8:56 PM. (Long 88°25’E & Lat 23°23'N) in 
Sukra Maha Dasha with a balance of 5 years 8 months 12 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 323°52’,; Moon 142°52’; Mars 
282°56'; Mercury 342°; Jupiter 261°40’; Venus 6°7’; Saturn 
236°02’; Rahu 328°10’; Ketu 148°10'; Lagna 184°24’. 

30. Henry Ford : Born on 30th July 1863 at 2:09 PM. 
(L.M.T.) Lat 42°05’N Long 83°05’W in Moon's Maha Dasha with 
a balance of 2 years 4 months 6 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 106°34’; Moon 290°12’; Mars 
127°35', Mercury 102°32’; Jupiter 179°56’; Venus 151°44’; Sat- 
um 160°32’; Rahu 223°05’; Ketu 43°05’; Lagna 211°52’. 

31. Chitta Ranjan Das : Born on 5th November 1870 at 
6:49 A.M. (L.M.T.) (Lat 22°40’N & Long 88°30’E) in Maha Dasha 
of Saturn with a balance of 1 year 3 months 4 days. 


Planetary Positions .: Sun 201°48’,; Moon 345°47’; Mars 
133°14’; Mercury 191°08’; Jupiter 65°36’; Venus 193°36’; Saturn 
245°01'; Rahu 82°35’; Ketu 262°35’; Lagna 210°13’. 

32. Dr. Rajendra Prasad : Born on 3rd December 1884 
at 8:45 A.M. (L.M.T.) (Latitude 25°36’N Long 85°10’E) in Maha 
Dasha of Mars with a balance of 5 years 10 months 17 days. 

Planetary Positions : Sun 230°47', Moon 55°28’; Mars 
247°30'; Mercury 246°07’; Jupiter 134°33’; Venus 194°35’; Sat- 
urn 60°42’ (R); Rahu 169°59’; Ketu 349°59’; Lagna 260°10’. 

33. Swami Vivekanand : Born on 12th January 1863 at 
6:33 PM. (L.M.T.) (Lat 22°40’N Long 88°30’E) in Maha Dasha 
of Moon with a balance of 3 years 3 months 27 days. 

Planetary Positions : Sun 270°52’; Moon 168°54’; Mars 
7°46’; Mercury 283°13’; Jupiter 185°28’; Venus 278°32’; Saturn 
165°02'; Rahu 233°41'; Ketu 53°41’; Lagna 267°31’. 

34. Emperor Nero of Rome : Bom on 15th December 37 
A.D. (O.S.) at about 7:28 A.M. (Long 12°46’E & Lat 41°29’N) in 
Sukra Maha Dasha with a balance of 11 years 5 months 12 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 267°30’; Moon 139°02’; Mars 


“. Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 163 


» .271°02"; Mercury 245°02"; Jupiter 229°32’; Venus 298°02'; Sat- 
* um 182°02’, Rahu 278°50’; Ketu 98°50’; Lagna 267°32’. 

: 35. H.G. Wells : Born on 21st September 1866 at 3:33 
' PM. (G.M.T.) (Lat 51°24’N and long 0.1’E) in Maha Dasha of 
’ Mars with a balance of 3 years 5months 21 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 157°52’, Moon 300°03’; Mars 
76°, Mercury 148°25’; Jupiter 271°54’; Venus 204°09’; Saturn 
199°11’; Rahu 162°15’; Ketu 342°15’; Lagna 273°16’. 


36. Mehar Baba : Born on 25th February 1894 at about 
4:30 A.M. (L.M.T.) (Lat 18°31’N & Long 73°52’E) in Rahu Maha 
Dasha with a balance of 5 years 3 months 21 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 315°26’; Moon 196°24’, Mars 
256°18’; Mercury 332°20'; Jupiter 33°07’; Venus 301°51’; Saturn 
183°49’, Rahu 351°19; Ketu 171°19’, Lagna 284°09’. 


37. Karl Marx : Born on 15th May 1818 at about 2 A.M. 
(L.M.T.) Lat 49°44’N Long 6°38’E in Sukra Maha Dasha with a 
balance of 3 years 9 months 18 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 24°18’; Moon 24°08’, Mars 
90°58’; Mercury 40°12’; Jupiter 263°05’ (R); Venus 39°12’, Sat- 
urn 326°; Rahu 18°39’; Ketu 198°3%; Lagna 302°56’. 


38. Abraham Lincoln : Born on 12th February 1809 at 
7:32 A.M. (L.M.T.) (Lat 35°N, Long 89°E) in Maha Dasha of Sun 
with a balance of 2 years 1 month 6 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 304°06’, Moon 275°20’, Mars 
185°46’; Mercury 312°44’; Jupiter 332°16’; Venus 347°46’; Sat- 
um 223°16'; Rahu 197°44’; Ketu 17°44’; Lagna 316°39’. 

39. Aurangzeb : Born on 3rd November 1618 (N.S.) at 
1:43 PM. (L.M.T.) Lat 28°39’N Long 77°13’E in Maha Dasha of 
Sun with a balance of 2 years 1 month 20 days. 


Planetary Positions : Sun 203°50’; Moon 35°14’; Mars 
144°: Mercury 199°; Jupiter 310°; Venus 259°; Saturn 48°; Rahu 
280°; Ketu 100°; Lagna 313°45’. 

40. Prophet Mohammad : Born on 20th April 571 A.D. 
(O.S.) at 1:10 A.M. (Lat 21°20’N) Long 40°14’E in Sukra Maha 


164 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Dasha with a balance of 15 years 3 months only. 

Planetary Positions : Sun 28°45’; Moon 136°; Mars 
90°35’; Mercury 2°24’; Jupiter 209°50’; Venus 39°29’, Saturn 
211°46’, Rahu 35°31’; Ketu 215°31’; Lagna 304°47’. 

41. Dwright Eisenhower : Born on 14th October 1890 
at 5:15 PM. (L.M.T.) (Lat 37°45’N, Long 96°32’W) in Rahu Maha 
Dasha with a balance of 9 years 9 months 21 days. 

Planetary Positions : Sun 180°02’; Moon 192°44’, Mars 
263°13’; Mercury 162°40’; Jupiter 281°54’; Venus 225°14’; Sat- 
urn 141°51’; Rahu 56°27’; Ketu 236°27’; Lagna 357°02’. 

eee 


CHAPTER-XVIII 
YOGAHEENA DASA BHUKTI 


Dasa Phala is a special innovation of the Hindus. It appears 
that the Hindus conceived of some 32 kinds or even more of Dasa 
Systems. Of these Vimsottari Dasa is the prevalent one as re- 
vealed by Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra. 


aerragfaeredra tear fag wat | 


No doubt in some parts of India people may be using 
Ashttotari, Yogini, Rashi, or Kala Chakra Dasa System etc., as a 
substitute or supplement, Vimshottari is the most widely accepted 
one. 


Kala (Time) is said to be the regulator of all activities of this 
universe. 


wtf ait: wat deta area fi 
wre: wrod faye aretha wre 
In Kish-Kindha Kanda of Valmikiya Ramayan, Lord Shri 
Rama reveals as follows : In this world destiny is the root cause of 
all. Destiny is the means of all our actions. Destiny employs us in 
various deeds. It is the guide of all our actions. No person is abso- 
lutely free to do any work himself. Nor he is capable of engaging 
others in some work. The world is within the command of Nature 
or Inclination which is dependent on Kala or Destiny. Even Kala 
cannot violate the Law of Kala. It is invoilable or invincible. Kala 
has no brother, no friend, no kith and kin, no relation, no caste 
and creed and all that. There is no way out to influence Kala. No 
force can be used against Kala. Even God, the cause of the uni- 
verse, cannot influence Kala and Destiny. God perhaps does not 
interfere in the operation of the Law of Kala. 


frafa: arot ath fafa: arererg | 
fPrafa: oo adsyarat rat eT ws 


166 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


aad weafad afratrart arta aya: | 

vaura addcite: act area: wor 4h 

7 area: awrendfa a area: uftetad 

ward a aaraa a afvachradan «i 

a prerenitt Geet A eq: A WITHA: 

= faogofaarerea: a@rut aertagr: i et 

Slokas 4, 5, 6 & 7, chapter 25, Kish-Kindha Ramayan. 
Srimad Bhagawat Purana says two things in this regard : 
1. Kala-Purusha shakes off all animate or inanimate, all fixed 


and moving objects of this universe according to Prarabdha or 
predetermination. 


warert Saget Wey feared WT es 
Sloka 14, Chapter 11, 4th Skandha, Bhagawat Purana 
2. All living beings have to bear fruits of pleasure or pain 
according to the merits and demerits of their deeds. They have to 
follow the wheels of time or the dictates of Kala Purusha in con- 
sonance with the merits and demerits of their deeds in the same 
way as the dust flies along with the gusts of the wind. 
Wa equal xa faer va at aver Gea fara: WH WaT: | 
a aaa AyMacaiy aaa TAT: Wo Ht 
Sloka 20, Chapter 21, Skandha 8, Bhagawat Purana. 
Shiva Maha Purana underlies the importance of Kala or Time 
in these words; 
wrest vita: Ufaatia ata: area gfe: werarqafa 
wTeat ate yet warha aareta wa THeTeaA fe 23 
WIAVA VAT Wa Tq: BTA Teas safest Pres | 
arent Tet aa Warha are dsttatea wraciteA: i ee 
Slokas 23&24, Chapter 7, Vayaviya Samhita, 
Poorva Bhaga Shiva Maha Purana. 


It is the verdict of Maha Shiva Purana that it is Time and 
Time alone that unfolds every coming event. Dynamism of Time 
is at the root of every change in time. In the Western Asrology 
technique, Progressed Horoscope is applied to know coming 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 167 


probable events. In India Tajik System is the Indian Brand of 
Progressed Horoscopy. It is used as a supplement to 
DASASYSTEM. It is the Hindu view that results of our Prarabdha 
Karma accrue to us through a well set divine order expressed 
through Dasa-Order. We get good or bad things as per our lot 
spread over time. Dasa-System just gives us an idea of probable 
good or bad times of our life. Not only course of events in our life 
are preordained but also the timing of such events are preordained 
as revealed by Maha Shiva Purana. Just as Nature observe a rule 
of time faithfully, human destiny too has to observe rule of time 
rigorously. What comes to us like a bolt from blue or something 
like a windfall gain is also preordained by the same rule of time. 
Both expected and unexpected, normal and abnormal courses of 
events are the byproducts of the rule of time. 


What comes to us like a windfall gain is said to be the result of 
Yogakarak Dasa. Normally, Dasa or Bhukti or a planet owning a 
trine and a quadrant is said to be a Yogakarak Dasa. Dasa of a 
planet owning Trine/quadrant may give mixed or moderate results 
if it also owns some evil house. There may be hundreds of rules of 
Yogakarak Dasas. Similarly, what may be said to befall our head 
like a bolt from blue may be said to be the result of some Yoga 
Bhanga Dasa. While Yogakarak Dasas may help one being born 
with a silver spoon in one’s mouth or they may help one rise from 
Rags to Riches, Yoga-Heena of Yoga-Bhanga Dasas may cause 
sudden setback, downfall or upheaval in one’s life. Our classical 
texts give sufficient hints about some such troublesome Dasas and 
Bhuktis. Experience has shown that Dasas-Bhuktis of some pairs 
such as Saturn-Rahu, Rahu-Saturn, Jupiter-Rahu, Rahu-Mercury, 
Mercury-Rahu and Rahu. Mars must be giving some serious set- 
backs in life. Even in such cases where these concerned planets 
have been exceptionally well-placed, they did not pass without bit- 
ing the native at same point of time or the other. These, however, 
are recent findings of modern astrologers. If we go through our 
classical texts, we find that Dasas-Bhuktis of pairs Saturn-Venus 
and Venus-Saturn have been held to be more havocful, more 
troublesome and more upsetting than other obnoxious pair. We 
shall therefore, examine the veracity of classical view on Dasa- 
Bhukti of Sani-Sukra and Sukra-Sani pairs somewhat in more depth 


168 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


in this Chapter which in fact is the real theme of this Chapter. 


Although Uttrakalamrita has held Dasa-Bhukti pairs of Sani- 
Sukra and Sukra-Sani to trigger off evils in a particular context, 
most people wrongly believe it to be applicable in all cases. Rather, 
these people have not seen or if seen they have overlooked the 
fact that Bhavartha Ratnakar is perhaps the first work which has 
made a general and sweeping statement to the effect that the na- 
tive becomes invariable unfortunate during Saturn’s Dasa Venus 
Bhukti or Venus Dasa Saturn’s Bhukti. 


View of Bhavartha Ratnakar 
Varat was wed aat wi 
aera «| aoreat ater wear ug 
viata { WR Hard wilt 
TA eats urea abrat vata gary nu 


Chapter XI, Bhavartha Ratnakara 

According to Bhavartha Ratnakar, for persons born in as- 
cendants other than Sagittarius and Pisces, Saturn’s Dasa Venus 
Bhukti or Venus Dasa Saturn’s Bhukti may give unfortunate re- 
sults, though in case of Sagittarius and Pisces ascendants the 
same Dasa-Bhukti pair may give auspicious results, Dr. B.V. 
Raman has shown his disagreement with the above rule in these 
words : 

“One becomes devoid of affluence in Saturn’s sub-period in 
the major period of Venus or Vice-Versa. This cannot be accepted 
as a rule or principle. There are several exceptions. Why Saturn 
should always produce evil results in the Dasa of Venus and vice- 
versa? In actual practice instances have come to our notice 
wherein Venus has produced affluence and riches in the Dasa of 
Saturn and vice-versa. 

Dr. B.V. Raman however, sees some reason in validity of the 
second rule in the sense that for Pisces and Sagittarius ascen- 
dants both Saturn and Venus rule over evil houses and as such 
their evil potentialities may get counteracted enabling them to give 
rise to favourable results. According to Brihat Parasar Hora 
Shastra, Saturn, Venus, the Sun and Mercury are malefics for 
Pisces Lagna whereas Venus and Saturn are malefics and 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 169 


Marakas for Sagittarius Lagna. Rather, the Sun and Mercury are 
Yogakarakas for Sagittarius Lagna whereas Mars and Jupiter are 
Yogakaraka for Pisces Lagna. 


wa wa wfa: uma: wat atafearact 
ait wreadtareat Peat ureATAT: 1130 II 
We: MAHA: GAA: YEHt ATHaaqn: | 
aqmiquaat qd wets = faofeeaat gen 
Tein: = ourar sitafareqyysit 
merges «=o ateertat om eT a xB 
uraeistt 3 gases gharvat ayeti 
Timemiguaat dad went off vvu 
Yogakarak Adhayaya, B.PH.S. 
Those who have studied Parasari Hora know it quite well 
that Saturn as 2nd lord for Sagittarius Lagna may give troubles, 
miseries and fear of death while:as the 3rd lord it will be giving 
inauspicious results in its Dasa or Bhukti. 
wT aad aii a yeadtyaqi 
wesyamart We worst FTI 
For Pisces Lagna Saturn as the 11th lord may cause ob- 
stacles to gains and fear of disease whereas as the 12th lord it 
may cause great hardship and fear of disease in its Dasa or 
Bhukti. 
MAM Bart way ae watwaq 
aya am yn agasya fran 
According to Parasar Hora Sastra, similarly Venus as the 
6th lord for Sagittarius Lagna may give fear of diseases and en- 


emies while as the 11th lord it may give fear of diseases and ob- 
stacles to gains in its Dasa or Bhukti. 


wires aeatet «= eedtgt  ftutsiaq 
aT ATT oA ate Sata 
Venus as the 3rd lord for Pisces Lagna will be giving 


inauspicious results whereas as the 8th lord it may cause fear of 
death and loss of wealth in its Dasa and Bhukti. 


170 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 
wearer Wa WaT FT 
STA WMNVTAHTSa yeqsitferertarta: i 

As per lordship Dasa-Bhukti of Sukra-Sani and Sani-Sukra 

can never give auspicious results for Sagittarius and Pisces as- 


cendants. Their Dasa-Bhukti may give auspicious results only 
under the following conditions : 


1. If these evil lords are combined with lords of trine. 
wperereite = aif = aatoitereiqar 
wat eens yer aaferat carerentfae: ii 
2. If these evil lords are combined with some Kendra-Lord in 
trine or with some trine lord in Kendra. Alternatively, if these evil 


lords placed anywhere are aspected by some trine or Kendra- 
lord. 


alate afe area: dat afe ator: | 
mat Ga Gea gfeqame aeet:| 
amt wuwet we: fagtat caferrar: 1 
Rather, it is the view of Parasar-Hora Sastra that lord of 3rd, 
6th and 11th houses or planets combined with the 3rd, 6th and 
11th lords may give inauspicious results in their Dasas and Bhuktis 
even though they may be benefics. If a planet is associated with 
the 2nd or 7th lord in the 2nd or 7th house or a planet occupying 
the 8th house in its Dasa too will be giving inauspicious results. 
foerartt a rasrarfertedi 
murat wert a wawMeTeyrl 
Mast A  ATHyrqarafa 
TRarart a a TTSPAEwHETTET II 
Barring the Sun and Moon who are free from blemishes of the 
8th lord, if other planets even Benefics owning the 8th house also 
own the 3rd, 7th or 11th house, they become highly inauspicious. 
For example, Jupiter as 8th cum 11th lord for Taurus Lagna, Sat- 
urn as 7th cum &th lord for Cancer Lagna, Mars as 3rd cum 8th 
lord for Kanya Lagna, Mercury as 8th cum 11th lord for Scorpio 
Lagna and Venus as 3rd cum 8th lord for Pisces Lagna become 
quite inauspicious. On the other hand if the 8th lord also owns the 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 171 


1st, 5th or 9th house it becomes auspicious. Accordingly, Ist cum - 
8th lord Mars in case of Aries Lagna, 8th cum 9th lord Saturn in 
case of Gemini Lagna, 5th cum 8th lord Jupiter in case of Libra 
Lagna and 5th cum 8th lord Mercury in case of Aquarius Lagna. 
act auspiciously. The Moon in case of Sagittarius Lagna and the 
Sun in case of Capricorn Lagna will act as neutral. 


waAMaeaeast A WNW! 
fresrarfr ucasat wloraedt a AER: 
sHayq act amt free vars: 


4 Teeter §=6qafaauatsfaqn 


While discussing Raja Yoga, Parasar says that lords of.6th, 
8th or 12th houses in their debilitated signs may give Raja Yoga 
only when either of them has aspect on Lagna. Similarly, a debili- 
tated planet in 3rd, 6th, 8th or 11th house while aspecting Lagna 
may also cause Raja Yoga. 


q: tarentstt arereetafe amt wayata 
waste wea: wrfefagtd feat 
Tar at acaat arte wraant wraat wart 
weresand drt wd ugafa at aan 
Tier aa art upafa at dai 


There can be no implication of the 1st rule on persons born 
in Aries, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn and 
Aquarius Lagnas. In case of Taurus lagna debilitated 8th lord Ju- 
piter in 9th house will be aspecting Lagna. In case of Gemini 
Lagna 8th lord debilitated Saturn in the 11th house will be 
aspecting Lagna. In case of Cancer Lagna 6th lord Jupiter debili- 
tated in the 7th house will be aspecting Lagna. In case of Pisces 
Lagna 8th lord debilitated Venus in 7th house will be aspecting 
Lagna. So the first rule applies only to Pisces, Taurus, 
Gemini and Cancer Lagnas. 


No planet in 3rd house will be aspecting Lagna. Only Mars 
in 6th house in debilitation in case of Aquarius Lagna will be 
aspecting Lagna. No planet in 8th house will be aspecting Lagna. 
Only Saturn in 11th house in debilitation in Gemini Lagna will 
be aspecting the Lagna. The 2nd rule thus applies only to Gemini 


172 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


and Aquarius Lagnas. While illustrating the results of SUKRA 
ANTAR IN SANI-DASA Brihat Parasar Hora says as follows : 


View of Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra : 
Sukra-Antar in Sani-Dasa 


 Weereta wh rarer waatrisftan 
Ss oT Mage frat crertss aru 


In Sukra Antar Sani Dasa when Venus occupies its own or 
exaltation sign or when it is combined with benefic in kendra, 
trine or 11th house it may confer gain of wife, son and wealth, 
good health, auspicious functions, family welfare, happy events 
in household, acquisition of property, gain of power and posi- 
tion, great happiness, fulfilment of desires, pleasure of govern- 
ment and high officials, gain of comfortable conveyances, honour, 
self-content, clothes, white horses, buffaloes etc. One may have 
immense benefits in distant places. If Jupiter is also in favourable 
transit at that time it must give a rise in fortune and economic 
prosperity. lf Saturn also transits a favourable house at the same 
time it may confer on the native Raja Yoga or success in Yoga 


Kriya. 

watarert a UBT Bora 

SAT WA: Fee: LAAT Sa: | 

enn wera: aaaraterfaae: i 

If Venus occupies inimical or debilitated sign or if it is com- 

bust or when it is posited in the 6th, 8th or 12th from Lagna, Sukra 
Antar in Sani Dasa may cause loss of wife or mental grief, fall from 
power and position, displacement, overthrow, fall-out, trouble ta 
wife and family members, mass-resentment, family feuds etc. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha "173 


wameurat da He ar ara 
wavifrat wa misdtt vweraqi 
ameteaah 3 odistarafadh = eT 
wreatareart daardsaufgay i 
arqafgdtet a awa atsweyra: 

“If sub-lord Venus occupies 9th, 11th or Kendra from major- 

lord Saturn, Sukra Antar in Sani Dasa may give fulfillment of 

desires at the pleasure of rulers and the govt., virtuous deeds, 


pilgrimages, success in debates and poetry, religious discourses, 
happiness from wife and sons etc.” 


aay, Sart yh BB at arpasfe aris 

Aadtet Wate = eaperarafera:t 

aut cagente ae qa a dean 

weavifa: wreaat gem ott Wea: 

Wert wage: ater fatter 
“If sub-Ird Venus occupies the 12th, 6th or 8th from major 
lord Saturn, Sukra Antar in Sani Dasa may confer on the native 
eye-trouble, fear of high fever, unseeming conduct, tooth-disease, 


fall from height, mass-trouble, fear from the govt, hostility from 
Kith and Kin.” 


fgdrrerrettet «oo airetactot «= ufareafan 
aermakterte = oguiedt we ati 

yaat wt atest qarerqqmitaqhger! 
wrerayeet = ad: | WHAT 

“If sub-lord Venus owns the 2nd or 7th house Sukra Antar in — 

Sani Dasa may cause fear of death or serious illness. Recitation of 
Durga Sapta Shati, donating white cows and ‘buffaloes to priests 
etc may remedy the evils and may give good health and happiness.” 


Thus, according to Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra Sukra Antar 
in Sani Dasa may give a downswing or downfall only when sub- 
lord Venus is ill placed either from major lord Saturn or ascen- 
dant. If Sub-lord Venus is placed in inimical or debilitated sign or 
if it is combust and afflicted, it may give similar results. If it is in 
any way related to Marak potentiality, it may first give prosperity 


174 Advanced Study of Virshottari Dasha 


and then may hasten a sudden death or downfall. Rather Ravi 
Antar in Sani Dasa may prove to be more troublesome if sub-lord 
Sun is placed in the 8th and 12th from major lord Saturn or as- 
cendant, according to B.PH.S. 

wry gd aaa ata ai 

wan amehiya warts wares 

yeay frarrya searrer fearereii 

arene wget a caren at wa gem 

serratus a. u 


Sani Antar in Sukra Dasa 
Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra gives results as follows : 


yeaa we watetq water 
waa aaa qquivt taiyristia4r 
Taye agtel enfegey WATT: | 


In Sani Antar Sukra Dasa if sub-lord Saturn is in exalted or 
own sign/navamsa, in Kendra or Trikona, it may confer on the 
native immense pleasure, advent and contact of near and dear 
ones, honour, advent and contact of near and dear ones, honour 
and gains from the government or high-ups, birth of daughter, 
virtuous deeds, holy pilgrimages, gain of power etc. If sub-lord 
Saturn is debilitated, Sani Antar in Sukra Dasa may give troubles 
and miseries. 


aereramaritfa «= aenssarefirperay| 
wet oa we adyngmata ai 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 175 


aa at gran grea aarnhe aenfafer 
aa: owanarenita = feraretspwarea: 

If sub-lord Saturn is debilitated or placed in 6th, 8th or 12th 
from major lord Venus, Sani Antar in Sukra Dasa may give heavy 
expenses, troubles in beginning, troubles to parents, wife and sons, 
joumey abroad or one may have to go abroad in search of job, 
professional debacles, loss in business, loss of cattle etc. If Saturn 
owns the 2nd or 7th house, it may give physical troubles. Perfor- 
mance of Til-Homa, Maha Mritunjaya Japa, recitation of Durga 
Sapta Shati etc. by self or some priest is the proper remedy. Wor- 
ship of Lord Shiva and his consort Paravati or Durga may give 
relief. 


Although not mentioned so in B.PHS. it is obvious that Sub- 
lord Satum while transitting unfavourable houses at the same time 
may intensify miseries. Its transit through favourable house may 
mitigate evils and give prosperity. 

View of Jataka Parijata : 

According to Jataka Parijata, Sukra Antar in Sani Dasa gives 
affection of Kith and Kin, public support, gain of wife and wealth, 
happiness from agriculture etc. 

weyers «wtf = rarfearmerrrafar 
pure qanentf sit wea 

Results of Sukra Antar in Sani Dasa are thus auspicious 
ones according to Jataka Parijata. Rather, Antar of Ravi and 


Bhauma in Sani Dasa may cause downfall according to Jataka 
Parijata. 


Chapter 18, Dasa Phala, Jataka Parijata 

Results of Sani Antar in Sukra Dasa are said to be as fol- 

lows: indulgence with aged woman, gain of house, land wealth 
and destruction of enemies. 


176 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Geran Wea wna 
VOPTTTATeR A Ws MRAM UI 


Chapter 18, Dasa Phala, Jataka Parijata 


View of Phala Deepika : 

According to Phala Deepika, Sukra Antar in Sani Dasa may 
give auspicious results such as happiness to wife-son-friends etc. 
gain of wealth from agriculture or export-import trade and spread 
of name and fame. 


Qeegraeara dhergqa: opfratrarafrarete: | 
wuaiaecuata seyat ancraehktyntersa i 

Chapter 21, Phala Deepika 

Rather, Ravi Antar in Sani Dasa may cause death or fear of 

foes, bowel-troubles or eye-disease, loss of wealth and crops etc. 
mo oa fq wad qeoteerneraea 
muraaagake vaaqfeargufagts drat 

Chandra Antar in Sani Dasa may cause the loss of wife or 

death of the native, fear from water and wind or disease etc. 

afraréfararurtayort aeatfaofrrentrrag | 
Wears ward weafaarqufagiartres i 

Kuja Antar in Sani Dasa may cause fall from power and 

position, family-feud, fear from disease, fever, fire, arms, explo- 


sives and poison, increase in number of enemies, sufferance from 
hernia or eye-diseases etc. 
Taaeeaa: tamfareenraratewreatariaay | 
akqigerentaua wdaargufasta yftrati 

Thus according to Phala Deepika also sub-periods of the 
Sun, the Moon and more so of Mars in major period of Saturn 
may prove to be more dangerous and harmful than sub-period of 
Venus in major period of Saturn. 

As regards sub-period of Saturn in major period of Venus it 
is the view of Phala Deepika that the same may give auspicious 
results such as honour from the government, army-men and citi- 
zens, gain of a good wife, gain of wealth of various kinds, com- 


Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 177 


forts and luxuries etc. 


wTRatatevaget yarattecarararfet ari 
fafaufanuesadaatetaghracratdt = yeti 
Chapter 21, Phala Deepika 
It is obvious that Jataka Parijata and Phala Deepika hold 


almost an identical view to the effect that Sani Antar in Sukra 
Dasa or Sukra Antar in Sani Dasa gives auspicius results. 


View of Sarvartha Chintamani 


Sarvartha Chintamani had taken a view independent of 
Bhavartha Ratnakar, Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra, Jataka Parijata 
and Phala Deepika in this regard. It has assessed the behaviour 
of malefic and benefic Sub-lord according to the categories of ° 
houses occupied by major lord that are grouped into five catego- 
ries viz. (i) Kendra (ii) Trikona (iii) Trika or 6th, 8th & 12th (iv) 
3rd-11th and (v) 2nd. 


Saturn in Kendra : 


During the sub-periods of Benefics like Venus in major pe- 
riod of Saturn located in kendra the native gets much happiness, 
honour from the government, wealth and rule over the country or 
a village. Such a result is possible during the first half of benefic 
sub-periods. During its second half the native gets disease, bad 
name, loss of wealth etc. Rather, sub-periods of malefics like the 
Sun, Mars or Rahu-Ketu in major period of Saturn in Kendra may 
give fall from power and position. The native may have to live 
away and suffer from the govt. fire, thief’s etc. 


ware wala gar wreefteray! 
wrraft ward a prdhohadter 
amfarata yal AeapaT! 
qafeenaatte = eyraranfirrerany ii 
wavtgymeat q wad tte 
Tae ae aeT eT 
Saturn in Trine : 
During the sub-periods of benefics planets like Venus here in 


178 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


the main period of Saturn located in trine, the native gets honour 
from the govt., much enjoyment, gain from agriculture, increase 
of wealth and grains, good health of relatives, wife, sons etc, or- 
naments, virtuous deeds etc. Rather, during the sub-periods of 
malefics in the main periods of Saturn in trine, the native gets 
much sorrow, loss of father or son, failure in efforts, diseases of 
nerves or eye-trouble, quarrel with relatives etc. 

fretreagratt = faqaafaarerta 

ural wees atrermenfy ari 

aatanert aw ways Aa 


Saturn in Trika house (6th, 8th & 12th) 

During the sub-periods of benefic planets like Venus here in 
the Major period of Saturn located in the 6th, 8th or 12th house. 
There is much comfort, good health, much glow on the body and 
power to rule over the country or village. Rather, during the sub- 
periods of malefic planets in the major period of Saturn located 
in the 6th, 8th or 12th house the native gets much sorrow, trouble 
loss of position, disease near the private parts of the body, fear 
from poison, fever, fire, govt., death of near and dear ones, loss of 
perseverance. 


wprpncaeeg = tata BT 

gad:a@ veers warns waeraq 

Tet fanfara varafeyarewaq 

HAMASTATT Ta TT farrertq tt 

WSTENaIe MINOT «= ETSI 

amd aight a eeromnfirrerany 
Saturn in 3rd and 11th house 


During the sub-periods of benefics like Venus here in the 
major period of Saturn located in the 3rd or 11th house results 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 179 


are good such as favour from the government and gain of oma- 
ments. Rather, during the sub-periods of malefics in the major 
period of Saturn located in the 3rd or the 11th house there may 
be good income but also sorrow and loss of brothers. Also the 
native may go to foreign lands. Quarrels, conflicts, destruction of 
servants, bad food, servitude, contact with ill-reputed women may 
ensue. 


Ue eat a a caret PTET 

ferrari wee tard yer 

gun wie goin aia 
Saturn in 2nd house 


During the sub-periods of benefics planets like Venus here in 
major period of Satum located in the 2nd house, the native may 
have a firm mind. He helps others. He resorts to amusing with 
gambling. He tries to know the secrets of singing. He gets food, 
clothes, omaments etc. His efforts bear fruits. He gets power to 
cule, ruby, coral, gold etc. Rather, during the sub periods of malefics 
.n major period of Saturn located in the 2nd house the native may 
indergo punishment from the government, confinement in prison, 
ioss of spirits, physical troubles, fever, indigestion, loss of power, 
death of cattle, danger from conveyances, great obstacles etc. 


Sum total of aforesaid results of various Sub-lord in major 
period of Satum according to Sarvartha Chintamani is that sub- 


180 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


period of Venus in major period of Saturn will be giving auspicious 
results all through if Satum is placed in houses other than kendra 
ones and even when Satum is placed in some Kendra house sub 
period of Venus in major period of Saturn will be giving quite aus- 
picious results in its first half but may cause downfall and miseries 
in its second half. It will not be out of place to mention here that 
Jdataka Tatwa upholds contrary view when it says that the sub pe- 
riod of a benefic will first give trouble and then happiness. 


WATS ATAT Bel HE Aa: FSA! 
: (HABA RMA) 


On the other hand sub-period of a malefic in major period 
of benefic is supposed to confer happiness first and then fear. 


UNA Waray set TE at: wa | 
(HARA TMTTL) 


We shall now discuss view of Sarvartha Chintamani on Sani 
Anitar in Sukra Dasa. 


Venus in Kendra 


During the sub-period of malefic planets like Saturn here in 
major period of Venus occupying a Kendra, the native gets loss of 
wealth, bad food, bad clothes and destruction of good deeds in 
the first half of such sub-period whereas in its second half the 
native gets good results such as a gain of house, cows, land and 
wealth from far off places. Rather during the sub-period of ben- 
efic planets in major period of Venus located in Kendra, the na- 
tive gets ruling power and the honour from the govt., convey- 
ances, clothes and ornaments, enthusiasm, fame, fortune, wife, 
son and wealth, furtherance of prospects, patience of mind and 
promience in the service of govt. 


aah wae dart q eed 
Tet waar orate 
seared arafaedt « Qaerrarme: | 
wrath trgrafirmmer 
aafaera ateera uel emery 
gun gaat a quad feaerq 


Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 181 


aware wea eardad ytsrmfartqs 
Tenyfferd wd aed era 


Venus in Trine 


During the sub-period of malefic planets such as Saturn here 
in the major period of Venus located in a trinal house, the native 
may have mental sorrows. He gets bad health and exceeds bounds 
of good conduct and gets trouble from the ruler, fire and thieves. 
He gets unholy contact with woman of bad repute and bad con- 
versation. He gets hatred from relatives, confusion of mind, bad 
dreams and defame. He has had a downfall after attaining posi- 
tion of height. On the other hand, during the main period of Ve- 
nus located in trinal house, the native performs good deeds, wor- 
ships God and Brahmins. There is the prosperity of his sons and 
wife. He performs Yagnas. He gains cows, ornaments, wealth, 
health, lustre of the body, victory over enemies and fulfillment of 
desires. 


fratorera yea spt wafer 
eayqraya =  aran-faasai 
aateatorst a wtspromet eI 
ama eat a Rifseredaatrery i 
afar we wat WAST 
smaranaate ya abofadtsaq 
garat garmat a ayge afairaq 
grat oo ulfeoaraoetfe | rae: 
Venus in Trika (6th, 8th or 12th house) 

During the sub-period of benefics in major period of Venus 
located in the 6th, 8th or 12th house, the native gets much fame, 
honour from the ruler, acquisition of wealth, sons, wife and other 
fortune. During early part of benefic sub-period, the native gets 
clothes, conveyance, ornaments etc, but at the end he gets sor- 
rows, enmity with Kith and Kin, death of Guru and loss of his 
own relatives. During the sub-periods of such benefics, the native 
gets good health and much happiness, enjoys food at the expense 
of others, gets silk clothes, scents, garlands, ornaments etc. This 
is the result in the early part of the sub-period of benefics. Trouble 


182 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


is there in the end part of this sub-period from thieves and loss of 
relatives. 


It so appears to our mind that the results of benefic sub- 
periods have been repeated and the same of malefic sub-period 
of malefics here will be giving evil results in the same way as 
when major lord is placed in the 3rd and 11th houses. 


Venus in 3rd or 11th house 


During the sub-periods of malefics like Saturn here in the 
major period of Venus, the native gets discomfort, loss of crops 
and grains, frustrations and failure in efforts, mental worry, trouble 
from the ruler, thieves and fire, litigation regarding land, loss of 
relations and loss of position. On the other hand during the sub- 
periods of benefics in the major period of Venus placed in the 3rd 
or the 11th house, the native may have much happiness, honour 
from the ruler, fitness of mind, ruling over a village or territory, 
acquisition of conveyance, ornaments, sons, wife and servants, 
provision of drinking water for others, construction of orchards 
and tanks doing acts of religion. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 183 


Venus in the 2nd house 


During the sub-periods of malefic like Saturn here in the major 
period of Venus in the 2nd house, the native may have troubles, 
punishment from the government, sorrow in mind, suffering from 
heart attack etc. loss of work, falls from position, fear from thieves, 
fire, enemies etc. On the other hand during the sub-periods of 
benefics in the major period of Venus in the 2nd house, there is 
much happiness, gain of wife, son, wealth, protection of rela- 
tives, success in education, happy mood, worship of Gods and 
Brahmins, performance of Yagnas etc, getting name and fame 
and the like. 


wrerenfa yam seepel nef 
argarstersy = a AAT STATATUTL UI 
faa = wera = Caarrattorgs 
aigatord a wang aa 
wafer wet uaypet yerad 
wees owiteag eanfaritierq 
f : aatsi iati ; 
afe dhofteife @ aud ara dera:u 
Irrespective of the positioning of major lord Venus sub-pe- 
riod of malefics like Saturn is supposed to give reversal in life 
whereas sub-period of a benefic like Venus in major period of 
Saturn is supposed to give auspicious results in all circumstances 
except when Saturn is posited in some Kendra house where sub- 
period of Venus first elevates and then pulls down, according to 
Sarvartha Chintamani. These deductions seem to be based on 
the premise that sub-period of a benefic in major period of a 
malefic must upgrade the position whereas sub-period of a ma- 
lefic in major period of a benefic must degrade the position. Ma- 
jor lord gets passive and sub lord becomes more active. 


View of Uttarkalamrita 


Uttarakalamrita lays down some general rules of Dasa Phala 
which are as follows : 


1. Major period and sub-periods of planets owning kendra 
and kona houses will prove to be auspicious while those of plan- 


184 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


ets owning the 2nd, 3rd & 11th houses will be medium. The ma- 
jor periods and sub-periods of planets owning the 6th, 8th and 
12th houses will always prove to be bad. Results of major and 
sub-periods may be predicted after a scrutiny of the lordship of 
planets and the houses occupied by them. 
HAMA SOTA AHS AST: VTA: | 
AMA APT AMaAT AIST TTT: It 
WANA IHs BET WAY: Tar 
Aqedrradter aa a ade Hy 
2. If the sub lord be posited in the 12th, 8th or 6th from the 
house occupied by the major lord, such sub-lord becomes the 
enemy of major lord. Sub-lords in the 11th, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 9th 
and 10th from major lord is said to be greatly auspicious. Sub- 
lord in 7th from major lord or the one in conjunction with the 
same is also auspicious in giving results. 


Tra egret Beet fara yar: | 
woqtade orem dharert aed 
wry at aya wafamanereal sarees | 
ATPASES WHS: Urey st a 
3. If major lord is malefic and sub-lord is benefic but not in 
conjunction, results may be unfavourable. If the sub-lord be ben- 
efic and be associated with the malefic major lord, the results 
may be a mixed one, Sub-lord, even if it be a Yogakarak, will 
become more unfavourable and distressing if it be not conjoined 
with such major lord. If major lord has got power to cause both 
Yoga and death, it must give the effects of Yoga (Raja, Dhana, 
Shakti etc.) first in its own Bhukti. If the entire period over which 
the Yogakarak rules be fully auspicious and Bhukti of the various 
malefic planets be likewise favourable, the Yogakarak planets 
postpone the causing of death to native. Such a major lord will 
never cause mixed results. If it does, the Dasa will only prove to 
be quite fruitless, so opine the wise. 


Wh Getsaa: WME: Wea: ytsTat 
fastargeatre frestfa aearafirs ethrare 
were valeurs wa qaqa weatadtu 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 185 


ACHASAAM YHA HN Gel Waa: 
agate = chara qurauredetat 
aa TT: YAH Bara at aeoha 
rare aadtsht fe eer ar French 


Special Rule 


If Venus and Saturn posited in their exaltation or own sign 
ar in Vargottama Amsa be strong and equally powerful to cause 
any Yoga they will in their mutual Dasas and Bhukti make the 
native a beggar seeking alms and a powerless being, even if he be 
born a king or a Kuber. Should however one of the two viz. Venus 
and Saturn be strong and the other weak, the stronger will give 
the Yoga. If both of them be weak and be so placed that one 
occupies the 8th, 12th or 6th from the other, or happen to be the 
owners of such places or be conjoined with the lords of these 
houses, they become auspicious and confer wealth and happi- 
ness on the native. If one of them owns an auspicious house and 
the other an unfavourable one, even both of them will give auspi- 
cious results. If both of them are malefics they will prove extemely 
favourable to the native. 


aparat afe qed waar antaaretiterct | 
eat arent ate afert at Shae: arent 
yoret eratantsfa wad Frag Prem: 
ae ait we faacyaqdtiarane: | 
aw gaaact arneiigt aqarady arsft aq. 
bie A UO Nee SUS aki Bele 


Let us analyze this special rule of Uttarakalamrita. Venus 
and Saturn are natural friends. Any student of astrology will, there- 
fore, expect good results in their mutual Dasas and Bhuktis if they 
are powerful, well placed and Yogakarak. Normally, a native is 
supposed to rise from rags to riches and from dustbin to the throne 
under such kind of planetary conditions. As by experience we 
have seen a favourable Jupiter to be more protective in nature 
than a bestower of material prosperity. Experience shows that 


186 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Venus, Saturn and Rahu when favourable are better bestower of 
material prosperity. It is a different matter that material prosperity 
accrued in Rahu Maha Dasa must have a decline at its fag-end in 
Kuja Bhukti or even earlier in some cases. Similarly, one may 
experience both sudden rise and sudden downfall in Maha Dasa 
of Saturn placed in the 10th house in an unfavourable Rashi. 
‘These are exceptional cases. 


; Uttarakalamrita holds the contrary view that mutual Dasas 
and Bhuktis of Venus and Saturn may prove to be calamitous if 
both these planets are well placed, powerful and Yogakarak. They 
may bring down one from throne to dustbin. They may pull down 
one from riches to rags, from a millionaire to a bankrupt, from a 
king or Kuber to a beggar in the street. If both Venus and Saturn 
are quite strong, then only such evil results may be feared. The 
stronger the two planets viz. Venus and Saturn are, the worse will 
be the effect. It may not only be calamitous but disastrous too like 
a bolt from the blue. 


Should, however, one of the two viz. Venus and Saturn be 
strong and the other weak, the stronger will prevail over and will 
give its Yogakarak beneficial results. If both of them are weak, if 
both of them own evil houses or are conjoined with evil lords or if 
both of them are ill placed from one another, they become highly 
auspicious and confer wealth and happiness in their mutual Dasas 
and Bhukti. If both of them are malefics for a native, they may 
prove extremely favourable in their mutual Dasas and Bhuktis. 
They may give auspicious results something like vIPAREETA RAJAYOGA. 
Even if one of them owns an unfavourable one, then also their 
mutual Dasas and Bhuktis may give good results. It means that 
mutual Dasas and Bhuktis of Venus and Saturn will generally 
give auspicious results expect when both of them own good houses 
and are strong and well placed in chart. So far as lordship of 
houses is concerned, it is necessary that both Venus and Saturn 
should be simultaneously Yogakarak. This excludes Aries, 
Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Scorpio, Sagittarius and Pi- 
sces Lagnas from the preview of evil results. |n case of 
Taurus Lagna Saturn is most auspicious but Venus is ordinarily 
auspicious because of 6th lordship. In case of Libra Lagna again 
Saturn is most auspicious but Venus is ordinarily auspicious be- 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 187 


cause of the 8th lordship. In case of Capricorn Lagna Venus and 
Saturn are both Yogakarak par excellence. In case of Aquarius 
Lagna Venus is more auspicious but Saturn is less auspicious. 
Thus, evil results as feared by Uttarakalamrita are more probable 
in case of natives born in Capricorn Lagna than in case of 
Aquarius, Taurus and Libra Lagnas. It means, mutual Dasas and 
Bhuktis of Venus and Saturn may give anticipated evil results in 
very few cases in actual practice. In Susloka Shataka, which is 
an important commentary of Ududaya Pradeepa, it is said that 
planets in their own Antar in their own Dasas do not give their 
own results. They defer their own results in their Antar Dasas and 
give them in Antar Dasa of a Sambandhi of Maha Dasa Lord. 
Sometimes such results may accrue to in Antar Dasa of a 
Sadharmis of Maha Dasa Lord also. 


wd vet: wate emeadderg a 
aad ta aeota carafe were: i 
reread gq a wd wre: wear! 
WAMATAON UA Way We 
area wart a: apace wag! 
adder et wey adie a: 
ag: wammrereangeirat fe war: 
asters ert a: yet at aferitserar i 
watarddyrat at ayaa: aerfitur: 1 
we wota Reve Airad afarray 
Dasa Adhyaya Susloka Shataka 


Generally, planets are said to be related to or Sambandhi 
under four conditions : 


1. If they are combined in one house; 

2. If they occupy sign of each other or if they exchange their 
signs; 

3. If one planet placed in sign of another planet aspects it; 

4. If both the planets have mutual aspects; 


Similarly, if both planets are Yogakarak, benefics, malefics, 
neutrals, killers, Trishadayeshas, Trikeshas, Trikoneshas, Kendreshas 


188 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


etc, they are said to be Sadharmis or of the same religion. 


It is further held that if Major lord is a malefic and sublord a 
benefic or if major lord is a benefic and sublord a malefic, they 
may often give conflicting results : 

awrTs Aat ura: yutswaradyrae: | 
caeret sty fatter: tarratrard yay tt 
(Dasa Adhyaya, Susloka Shataka) 

Commentator Udyotakar says that major lord gives results 
in accordance with Sub-lord when both these planets are neither 
Sadharmis or Sambandhis. Commentator Sajjana Ranjanikar on 
the other hand holds the view that if major lord and Sub-lord are 
dissimilar in nature, they will give some kind of a composite result 
or a result dominated by the stronger of the two or it may first give 
the result of major lord followed by that of Sub-lord. 

Vinayak Shashtri holds the view that aforesaid results may 
accrue only when major lord and minor lords are neither 
Sambandhis nor Sadharmis. When major lord and sub lord are 
Sambandhis or Sadharmis, they primarily give the results of ma- 
jor lord. This rule appears to have a special application when 
major lord and Sub-lord are Venus-Saturn or Saturn-Venus pairs. 
As we know, planets are divided in two major camps : Deva group 
consisting of the Sun, Moon, Mars and Jupiter and Danava group 
consisting of Venus, Saturn and Nodes, Mercury in between the 
two camps. Venus and Saturn are great natural friends. Venus is 
allotted a major period of 20 years, Saturn a major period of 19 
years and Rahu a major period of 18 years in Vimshottari Dasa 
system. These three planets are not only great natural friends but 
also that these major periods and sub-periods are quite longer 
and more pronouncing. Rahu by nature is more akin to Saturn. 
We may treat Saturn and Venus as more significant for shaping 
human destiny from material point-of-view. Saturn is a Yogakarak 
for Taurus and Libra signs owned by Venus whereas Venus is a 
Yogakarak for Capricorn and Aquarius signs owned by Saturn. 
For these reasons Venus and Saturn may be treated to be natural 
Sambandhis, both of a special kind. It was for this reason that 
authors of Susloka Shataka were led to infer that sub lord Saturn 
will be giving the result of major lord Venus in Sani Antar Sukra 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 189 


Maha Dasa whereas Sub-lord Venus will be giving the result of 
major lord Saturn in Sukra Antar Sani Maha Dasa. 


ynnet Tat we: vith erent sta Wen: | 
We Wwe cifayrsor a ayra: u 
Dasa Adhyaya, Susloka Shataka 
were wynt qaaurtaty 
caer fagraur vfestat ary 


Miscellaneous Lagna Parasari 


Sum total of Susloka Shataka or Laghu Parasari is that de- 
ferred results of Sani Antar Sani Dasa will get their pronounce- 
ments in Sukra Antar Sani Dasa whereas deferred results of Sukra 
Antar Sukra Dasa will get their pronouncements in Sani Antar Sukra 
Dasa. It simply says that major lord will be more pronouncing than 
the Sub-lord. Whether the results will be auspicious or inauspi- 
cious will entirely depend on the position of major lord in the natal 
horoscope. Any way it does not endorse the view expressed by 
Bhavartha Ratnakar that Sukra Antar Sani Dasa and Sani Antar 
Sukra Dasa are invariably quite inauspicious. Also, it does not en- 
dorse the view of Uttarakalamrita to the following effects : 

(i) Mutual Dasa-Bhukti of Venus-Saturn and Saturn-Venus pairs 
may give downfall only when both Venus and Saturn are 
Yogakaraks and they are strong and well placed occupying 
their exaltation or own signs or Vargottama in Navamsa. 


(ii 


= 


If one of the two viz. Venus and Saturn is strong and the other 
weak, their mutual Dasa-Bhukti may give auspicious results. 


{iii) If both Venus and Saturn are weak in strength, placed in 6th, 
- 8th or 12th from one another, own either 6th, 8th or 12th house 
or they be combined with the 6th, 8th or 12th lord, they will 
give quite auspicious results in their mutual Dasas and Bhuktis. 

If one of them owns a good house and the other an evil house 
then also they will give auspicious results in their mutual Dasas- 
Bhuktis. If both Venus & Saturn own evil houses, they may 
give extemely good results. On the other hand Susloka Shataka 
puts forth a view contrary to the one held by Uttarakalamrita 
when it says that malefic sub lords placed in 6th, 8th or 12th 


190 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


from major lord will give quite inauspicious results and if they 
eccupy debilitated or inimical sign or when they are combust, 
they may give more miseries. Thus, there is lack of unanimity 
of opinion amongst great astrologers themselves. 


Examples : 


Let us now test the efficacy of the aforesaid rules by examining a 
few cases. They are as follows : 


Sukra Antar Sani Dasa : 


1. Akbar, Moghal the Great : Born on 23rd November 
1542 (0.S.) at 4 : 09 AM. (L.M.T.) Lat. 25°19’ N; Long 69°47’ E. 

Planetary Position : Sun 235°12'; Moon 70°; Mars 294°42’. 
Mercury 251°30’; Jupiter 187°18’; Venus 200°2’; Saturn 209°12’; 
Rahu 203°22’; Ketu 123°22’; Ascendant 203°22’; Ayanamsa 16°1’. 
Born in Rahu Maha Dasa with 
balance of 13 years 3 months, 1 
day. 
Chart I: 

Born in Libra Lagna, the na- 
tive had his Venus, Saturn and Ju- 
piter in Lagna. Exalted Saturn in 
Lagna caused Sasa Yoga and 
Raja Rajeshwar Yoga. Venus in 
Lagna in own sign caused 
Malavya Yoga. Jupiter in Lagna 
warded off his evils. Both Satum 
and Venus are Yogakarak for Li- 
bra Lagna. They are powerful and 
well placed in his chart. Accord- 
ingly, one could anticipate his 
downfall in Sukra Antar Sani 
Dasa, as Sani Antar Sukra Dasa 
was not possible in his life. Sukra 
Antar Sani Dasa in his life covered 
the period from 15-12-1577 AD to 
16-02-1581 AD. By and large, 
= -—| Maha Dasa of Yogakarak Saturn 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 191 


well placed in Chart was the gloriest period of his life. Nevertheless, 
he was confronted with a situation of his downfall in his Sukra Antar 
Sani Dasa. It so happened that getting offended at Akbar’s so-called 
policy of secularism, a powerful section of Fundamentalist Muslims 
led by some Sheiks revolted against Akber in the name of Islam. 
Slogans of ‘Islam in danger’ were raised. The sheikhs issued a Fatwa 
against Akbar declaring him to be a kaffir. They made an appeal in 
the name of Islam and Allah to all Muslims to dislodge Akbar from 
power. Revolt took place in Punjab and Bengal. Fundamentalists 
proclaimed one stepbrother of. Akbar called Hakim appointed by 
Akbar as the Governor at Kabul to be held as the real Moghul Em- 
peror of India. The challenge was formidable one. Akbar however 
through the help of Rajputs was able to crush this revolt completely 
in 1581 AD. It may please be noted that Akbar marched for Kabul 
on 8-02-1581 but he conquered Kabul on 9-08-1581 when his step- 
brother Mirza Mohammad Hakim surrendered. It may please be 
‘noted that both Venus and Saturn were in Sampat Tara Visakha. 
This may also be one of the possible reasons for Akber’s success. 
Although in final analysis Sukra Antar Sani Dasa gave him success 
- over enemies as per rules of Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra and Susloka 
Shataka, rules as laid down in Bhavartha Ratnakar and 
Uttarakalamrita too operated by lurking dangers of a downfall over 
the head of Akbar for a few months during Sukra Antar Sani Dasa. 


2. Aurangzeb : Born on 3rd November 1618 (N.S.) at 
01:43 PM. (L.M.T.) Lat 28°39'N Long 77°13’E. 


Planetary Position : Sun 203°50’; Moon 35°14’; Mars 
144°; Mercury 199°; Jupiter 310°; Venus 259°; Saturn 48°; Rahu 
280°; Ketu 100°; Ascendant 313°45’ Ayanamsa 17°4’. Born in 
Maha Dasha of Sun with a balance of 2 years 1 month 20 days. 


Chart 2: 


His Janma Lagna was Aquarius with Jupiter therein. Both 
Venus and Saturn are Yogakarak for Aquarius Lagna. Moon-Sat- 
um combine in 4th house is a kind of Rajayoga as explained in 
Jataka Parijata. Ascendant lord Saturn, however, is combined with 
the 6th lord Moon. Though in 11th from the ascendant, Yogakarak 
Venus is placed in the 8th from Saturn. Venus is debilitated in 
Navamsa. Sukra Antar in Sani Dasa in his life covered the period 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


from 14-10-1678 to 14-12-1681. 
According to rules laid down by 
Uttarakalamrita this should have 
been a glorious period, free from 
obstacles whereas as per Parasari 
rules this period denoted fear of 
downfall and some serious hurdle 
resulting in success over hurdles 
and enemies. What actually hap- 
pened during this period was that 
on death of Raja Jaswant Singh 
of Jodhpur, Aurangzeb played a 
dubious and mischievous role. As 
a result, Ajit Singh, the minor son 
of late Jaswant Singh, revolted 
against Aurangzeb. Aurangzeb 
sent his mighty Moghul! Army un- 
der the command of his son Akbar 
Shah but was badly defeated by 
joint Rajput forces of Marwar and 
Mewar. To utter surprise of all, 
Aurangzeb’s son Akbar Shah also 
joined the Rajputs and they all 
stood in arms against tyranny of Aurangzeb. Shrewd Aurangzeb 
then made a truce with Raj Singh who was ruler of Mewar but Ajit 
Singh of Marwar continued his struggle against Aurangzeb and did 
not allow him to live in peace till his last breath. Aurangzeb’s own 
son Akbar Shah later joined the Marathas and struggled against 
his own father. It gave an opportunity to the Marathas, Rajputs and 
Muslim rulers of south to engage the Moghuls in constant battle and 
thereby the Moghul! Empire was considerably weakened. Sukra 
Antar Sani Maha Dasa might not have overthrown Aurangzeb from 
power but it considerably weakened the great Moghul Empire in 
the next 20 to 30 years of his life. It made Aurangzeb’s life a life of 
hell, a life of hatred and distrust. He remained on constant fight ‘ 
and died far away from his capital. At any cost, Sukra Antar in 
Sani Dasa was not a glorious period for him. Rather, it was a 
troublesome period paving way for the downfall of the Moghul 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 193 


Empire. In his-case rules of Bhavartha Ratnakar and Parasari Hora 
Sastra better worked than rules of Uttarakalamrita. 


3. Shivaji The Great : Born on 19th February 1630 A.D. 
(OS.) at 6:26 PM. (L.M.T.) at a place (Lat 18°32’N & Long 73°53’E) 


Planetary Positions : Sun 323°56’; Moon 178°48’; Mars 
76°37’; Mercury 338°10’; Jupiter 307°18’; Venus 10°01’; Saturn 
197°37’; Rahu 60°49’; Ketu 240°49’; Ascendant 149°09’; 
Ayanamsa 17°14’. Born in Maha Dasha of Mars with a balance 
of 4 years 1 month 17 days. 


Chart 3: 


His Janma Lagna was Leo. Both Venus and Saturn are 
malefics for Leo Lagna. His Sat- 
urn was exalted in the 3rd house 
and his Venus was posited in the 
9th house in a malefic sign. Ju- 
piter fully aspected his Saturn. 
There can be no doubt that his 
Saturn in 3rd house in exaltation 
sign was aspected by Venus. Ac- 
cording to Uttarakalamrita, 
Sukra Antar in Sani-Dasa was 
likely to give auspicious results. 
According to Susloka Shataka as 
Venus and Saturn appertain to 
Trishadaya Group and they have 
mutual, aspect they are 
Sambandhis and Sadharmis by 
position also apart from being 
natural Sambandhis and natural 
Sadharmis. Therefore, major 
lord Saturn was supposed to give 
its results in sub period of Venus. 
No doubt, Saturn as 6th lord de- 
notes struggle, enmity but in the 
3rd house it is supposed to give 
quite fortunate results, as it is also aspected by benefics Venus 
and Jupiter. 


194 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


afraca yaaa aartt srrarfirss: cara geet favrara 
Sloka 52, Chapter 6, Shambhu, Hora Prakash 
Aspect of 3rd cum 10th lord Venus on the 3rd house was 
supposed to increase his power and position. It was in his Sukra 
Antar Sani Dasa (27-01-1675 to 27-03-1678) that Shivaji tact- 
fully made a treaty with rulers of Golkonda and invaded Kamataka. 
During this period Shivaji annexed a large part of Deccan area 
within his Maratha-fold. This period was noted with increase in 
his power and position. The 3rd house and 3rd lord represented 
valour and power (WA), 5th lord represented skilled manage- 
ment (afa5ere), 6th lord represented cruel deeds ( erHat), battles 
or wars (Sara), enemies (fqTq), etc 7th lord rules over over- 
throw of the enemy (3afasa:), 8th lord represents enemy’s for- 
tress (Wager), and battle (]s), 9th house represents wealth of 
all kinds (tga), and coronation hall (werfteraay), 10th lord 
represents govt. work (Tafa), fame (Sif: ), prosperity (fara: ), 
a lord (¥4Y:), honour (4M: ), etc. Involvement of 3rd house and 
9th house and involvement of 3rd cum 10th lord Venus, 6th cum 
7th lord Saturn and 5th cum 8th lord Jupiter in the chart here gave 
such kinds of results. This is a case where rules of Uttarakalamrita, 
Ududaya Pradeepa, Susloka Shataka and Brihat Parasar, Hora 
Sastra appear to have worked weil. 


4. Goethe : Born on 29th August 1749 (NS) at 12:17 PM. 
(L.M.T.) Long 8°41’ E & Lat. 50°07’ N. 


Planetary Position : Sun 136°; Moon 323°; Mars 254°30’, 
Mercury 130°: Jupiter 337°; Venus 157°30’; Saturn 206°; Rahu 
267°; Ketu 87°; Ascendant 208°; Ayanamsa 18°54". Born in Jupi- 
ter Maha Dasha with a balance of 12 years 4 months 24 days. 


Chart 4 : 


He had exalted Saturn in Lagna, which caused Sasa Yoga 
and Raj Rajeshwar Yoga. Venus is debilitated in Rashi but ex- 
alted in Navamsa. Venus is ill placed in 12th from Lagna and 
Saturn. As Venus is weaker than Saturn here Sukra Antar in Sani 
Dasa was supposed to give auspicious results. According to 
Parasar. debilitation of Venus was cancelled by Mercury in Kendra 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 195 


from Chandra Lagna causing Neecha Bhanga Raja Yoga. It was 
in his Sukra Antar Sani Dasa (14-11-1768 to 14-11-1772) that 
Gothe was honoured with Doctor of Laws and a solid foundation 
for future expansion of his career was laid out. 

5. Queen Victoria : Born on 23rd/24th May 1819 at 4:04 
AM. (L.M.T.) Lat 51°30° N Long 0°05> W. 

Pianetary positions : Sun 42°13°> Moon 43°40° Mars 
357°42* Mercury 19°02~ Jupiter 297°04> Venus 06°45* Saturn 
338°53> Rahu 358°17> Ketu 178°17* Ascendant 41°19"; 
Ayanamsa 19°53’. Born in Moon’s Maha Dasha with a balance 
of 7 years 3 months. 

Chart 5: 


As she was born in Taurus lagna, Saturn and Venus were 


196 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Yogakarak for her. Mars and Rahu afflicted her Saturn. Her Ve- 
nus and Mercury were ill placed in a malefic and inimical sign. As 
both her Yogakarak viz. Saturn and Venus were rendered weak, 
as per rules of Uttarakalamrita Sukra Antar in Sani Dasa (15-06- 
1874 to 15-08-1877) was supposed to elevate her position. Actu- 
ally, from the Queen she was promoted and was conferred upon 
the title of Empress of India in 1876 AD in her Sani Dasa Sukra 
Bhukti. Rules of Uttarakalamrita worked well in her case. 


6. Pope Pius XII : Born on 2nd March 1876 at 0:39 A.M. 
(L.M.T.) Lat. 41°53’ N, Long. 12°28’ E. 


Planetary Position : Sun 321°6’; Moon 32°42’, Mars 
11°28’, Mercury 295°36’; Jupiter 221°5’; Venus 358°33’; Saturn 
309°29’; Rahu 339°33’; Ketu 159°33’; Ascendant 221°6'; 
Ayanamsa 20°33’. Born in Sun Maha Dasha with a balance of 3 
years 6 months, 25 days. 


Chart 6: 
His Saturn is afflicted by the Sun. Rahu afflicts his Venus. 


Though exalted in Rashi and Navamsa, both are weakened due 
to afflication. Both are malefics for Scorpio lagna. As per rules of 
Uttarakalamrita, his Sukra Antar Sani Dasa was supposed to el- 
evate him. It was actually in his Sukra Antar Sani Dasa (18-07- 
1937.to 18-09-1940) that the native was crowned as the Pope of 
Rome. From Parasari point of view, 7th lord Venus in 5th house 
exalted in Rashi & Navamsa combined with Rahu in 5th house 
and aspected by 5th lord Jupiter and in 2nd from 4th lord Saturn 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 197 


was also conductive for Rajayoga. 


7. Benito Mussolini : Born on 29th July 1883 at 2 PM. 
(L.M.T.) Lat 41° N & Long 16° E. 


Planetary Position : Sun 105°13’, Moon 48°21’; Mars 
52°13’; Mercury 104°43’, Jupiter 87°43’; Venus 90°43’; Saturn 
48°43", Rahu 196°4". Ketu 16°4’; Ascendant 211°43’, Ayanamsa 
20°47’. Born in Moon Maha Dasha with a balance of 3 years, 8 
months, 26 days. 


Chart 7 : 
His Janma Lagna being Scorpio, both Saturn and Venus 


ReACA 


MAR,PLU ’ 


were malefics for him. His Saturn though Digabali and conjoined 
with 9th lord, Moon was weakened due to affliction by Mars con- 
joining it. Venus was weakened, as it was combined with the Sun 
and aspecied by Saturn. As per rules of Uttarakalamrita Sukra 
Antar Sani Maha Dasa was supposed to elevate him. True, it was 
in his Sukra Antar Sani Dasa (16-02-1935 to 16-04-1938) that 
Mussolini emerged as a powerful dictator of ltaly posing a threat 
to supremacy of British Colonialism in Africa and Mediterranean 
seas. Favourable transit of Jupiter in 7th and 9th from his Janma 
Rashi and favourable transit of Saturn in 11th from his Janma 
Rashi added further strength to his power and position. 


8. Indira Gandhi : Born on 19.11.1917 at 11:13 BM. 
(L.S.T.) at 25°27'N & 81°51VE. 


Planetary Positions : Ascendant in Cancer; Moon in 


198 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Capricorn, Sun and Mercury in Virgo; Venus and Rahu in Sagit- 
tarius; Jupiter in Taurus; Ketu in Gemini; Mars in Leo; Saturn in 
Cancer. Born in Sun’s Maha Dasha with a balance of 1 year 3 
months 25 days. 


Chart 8 : 
She was born in Cancer Lagna. For this Lagna both Venus 


and Saturn are malefics. Saturn is well placed. It is in own 
Navamsa. Rahu afflicts Venus though it is in own Navamsa.There 
is Shadashtaka relation between Saturn and Venus. As per rules 
of Uttarakalamrita, her Sukra Antar Sani Dasa was supposed to 
give auspicious results whereas as per rules of Bhavartha Ratnakar 
and Parasari Hora the same should have given her inauspicious 
results such as fall from power. It was in Sukra Antar Sani Maha 
Dasa (2-01-1976 to 2-05-1979) that the native lost power for the 
first time in her political career. In her case it gave reversal in life. 

9. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto : Born on 5-01-1928 at 4:29 PM. 
(L.M.T.) at 27 N 27&68 E. 

Planetary Position : Gemini Lagna, Taurus-Moon and 
Rahu; Pisces-Jupiter; Sagttarius Sun and Mercury; Scorpio-Mars, 
Ketu; Venus and Saturn. Born in Maha Dasha of Mars with a 
balance of 3 years, 9 months, 27 days. 


Chart 9: 


For Gemini Lagna Venus is Yogakarak whereas Saturn is 
neutral. For Janma Rashi Taurus, however, both Venus and Sat- 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 199 


urn are Yogakaraks. Venus and Saturn are not only placed in 6th 
from Lagna in inimical sign Scorpio but Mars and Ketu heavily 
afflict them. As per rules of Uttarakalamrita mutual Dasa-Bhukti 
of Venus and Saturn was supposed to give quite auspicious re- 
sults. Both Saturn and Venus are in their own Navamsa. Experi- 
ence says that planets in their own Navamsa give beneficial re- 
sults in their Dasas and Bhukti. As the Prime Minister of Paki- 
stan, Bhutto was in his hay days in Sukra Antar Sani Dasa (23- 
08-1972 to 23-10-1975) when he committed such sinful acts that 
he was ousted from power in Moon Antar Sani Dasa and was 
later on hanged in Rahu Bhukti. 


10. Samar Chatterjee : Born on 6th October 1918 at 
22-20 L.M.T. at Calcutta. 


Planetary Position : Gemini-Lagna and Jupiter; Leo-Sat- 
urn; Virgo-Sun; Mercury and Venus-Libra-Moon; Scorpio-Mars 
and Rahu; Taurus-Ketu. Born in Rahu Maha Dasha with a bal- 
ance of 17 years, 5 months, 22 days. 


Chart 10: 


Sukra Antar Sani Dasa 19-02-1958 to 19-04-1961. As the 
native was born in Gemini Lagna, Venus was definitely a 
Yogakarak for him but 9th lord Saturn was a neutral owing to 8th 
lordship. Saturn in the 3rd house is upheld to be giving quite for- 
tunate results according to Shambhu Hora Prakash. 


200 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


- It has been observed that Satum in the 3rd house gives rise to 
fortune, though it may be belated one. Venus-Mercury combine in 
the 4th house is a Raja Yoga. As a combine of 4th cum 5th lord in 
the 4th house Venus-Mercury combine was a positive Raja Yoga. 
As dispositor of debilitated Venus, that is, Mercury is placed in 
Kendra from Lagna neecha Bhanga Raja Yoga of Venus was 
caused. Venus is placed in 2nd from Saturn. As per Parasari rules 
Sukra Antar Sani Dasa was supposed to elevate position in this 
case. 


Viewed from angle of Uttarakalamrita, Saturn in inimical 
sign Leo and in debilitated Navamsa may be deemed to be weak- 
ened. Venus though debilitated in Rashi is afflicted by the Sun 
also. Whether we treat Venus to be Stronger than Saturn or we 
treat both of them to be somewhat weakened due to one reason, 
or the other, Sukra Antar Sani Dasa was destined to raise the 
status of the native according to Uttarakalamrita. 


It is said that the native Samar Chatterjee who started his 
career as a boy-servant at a petrol pump rose to a dizzy position 
in Sukra Antar Sani Maha Dasa (19-02-1958 to 19-04-1961) 
and came to own lot of property. He had to wait for 40 years for 
rise in fortune. Transit of Saturn in 3rd from his natal Moon lent 
further strength to favourable Dasa Bhukti of Saturn-Venus be- 
tween his 40th and 43rd year of age. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 201 


11. V. BP Singh : Bom on 25.06.1931 at 7:07 A.M. (I.S.T.) 
at 25°06'N & 82°15’E. 


Planetary Positions : Cancer-Lagna and Jupiter Leo- 
Mars; Virgo-Ketu; Libra-Moon; Sagittarius-Saturn; Pisces-Rahu; 
Taurus-Venus; Gemini-Sun and Mercury in Maha Dasha of Mars 
with a balance of only 24 days. 


Chart 11: 
Saturn opposition in Rashi-Chart and Sun-Rahu-Saturn 


combine in Navamsa Chart. Such a planetary position cannot 
allow a person to remain in power for long. 


For cancer Lagna, both Saturn and Venus are unfavourable 
though for his Janma Rashi Libra, both Saturn and Venus are in 
Shadashtaka (6/8) position from each other. As per rules of 
Uttarakalamrita, mutual Dasa-Bhukti of Saturn-Venus or Venus- 
Saturn was supposed to give auspicious results. As per Ududaya— 
Pradeepa, his Sukra Bhukti in Sani Dasa was supposed to give 
- results of major lord Saturn. It was in his Sukra Bhukti in Sani 
Dasa (10-05-1972 to 10-07-1975) that this so called Raja of 
Manda Sri V.P. Singh entered politics and was made Deputy Minis- 
ter of Commerce in October 1974 by Indira Gandhi in her cabi- 
net. It laid down the foundation of his political career. As said 
earlier rules of Uttarakalamrita showed favourable results during 
Sukra Bhukti Sani Dasa. As per Ududaya Pradeepa, from point- 
view of Janma Lagna major lord Saturn being quite inauspicious 
for Cancer Lagna ought not to have given such kind of auspi- 


202 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


cious results but looked from Janma Rashi Saturn being Yogakarak 
gave good results as per expectations. Looked from point view of 
Parasari Hora, Saturn in sign of Jupiter in upachaya from Janma 
Lagna Janma Rashi was favourable. Venus in own sign in 11th 
from Janma Lagna was favourable. Venus in 8th from the Moon 
caused Adhi Yoga. As per rules of Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra 
also Sukra Bhukti in Sani Dasa was a favourable period. As his 
Saturn is afflicted in Rashi and Navamsa Charts Saturn gave him 
an unstable political foundation and he could not stay for long on 
any chair or in any office. 


12. A Security Officer : Born on 28th/29th August 1937 
at 0:30 A.M (1.S.T.) at a place 26 N 07’ & 85 E 22’. 


Planetary Position : Gemini-Lagna; Cancer-Venus; Leo- 
Sun; Virgo-Mercury; Scorpio-Mars and Rahu; Sagittarius-Jupi- 
ter; Pisces-Saturn; Taurus-Moon and Ketu: Born in Sun Maha 
Dasha with a balance of only 5 months, 2 days. 


Chart 12: 
For Gemini Lagna Venus is Yogakarak and Saturn is neu- 


tral. The native had Bhadra Yoga and Hamsa Yoga. He had Sat- 
urn in the 10th house in Jupiter's sign. Mercury, Jupiter and Sat- 
um were retrograde in his Rashi Chart. The native was running 
Sukra Antar Sani Dasa (22-11-95 to 22-01-99). He was pro- 
moted in December 1996 but died in March 1997 due to Kidney 
failure. In his case Saturn ruled over 22nd decanates, 8th house 
and also 64th Navamsa. It had strong Maraka potentiality, Saturn 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 203 


gave its results in Bhukti of Venus placed in Maraka house. As 
5th lord in 2nd house Venus gave him promotion. But as 12th 
lord occupying Nakshatra of 8th lord Saturn in Maraka house 
Venus caused death on account of Kidneys again ruled by Venus. 


Sukra Dasa Sani Bhukti 


1. Albert Einstein : Born on 14th March 1879 at 11:30 
A.M. (L.M.T.) Lat. 48°24’ N & Long 24°10’ E. 

Planetary Position : Gemini-Lagna; Cancer-Ketu; Scor- 
pio-Moon,; Capricorn-Mars and Rahu; Aquarius-Jupiter; Pisces- 
Sun; Mercury, Venus, Saturn. Born in Budha Maha Dasha with a 
balance of 7 years, 10 months, 26 days. 


Chart 1: 


He was born in Gemini lagna. Venus is Yogakarak for this lagna. 
Venus is exalted in Rashi. It is beyond combustion orb. Saturn is a 
neutral for this Lagna. It is combust in a benefic sign. Sukra is caus- 


ing Malavya Yoga. Sun-Saturn and Venus-Mercury combined in the 
10th house are definitely Raja-Yogakarak. As per Parasari rules, 
mutual Dasa-Bhukti of Venus and Saturn must give auspicious re- 
sults. As per rules of Uttarakalamrita since Satum is weak here and 
Venus quite strong it must give prosperity. In Sukra Dasa Sani Bhukti 
(10-12-1906 to 10-02-1910) Einstein came to prominence after the 
discovery of his Theory of Relativity of Quantum Physics. 


2. Chaudhary Devi Lal : Born on 14th September 1914 
AD in Aquarius Lagna in Aridra Nakshatra in Rahu Maha Dasa. 


204 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Planetary Position : Aquarius-Lagna & Rahu; Gemini- 
Moon & Saturn; Leo-Sun & Ketu; Virgo-Mercury & Mars; Libra- 
Venus; Capricorn-Jupiter. Born in Rahu Maha Dasha with a bal- 
ance of 1 year, 9 months, 7 days. 


Chart 2: 


For Aquarius Lagna, Venus and Saturn are Yogakarak. As- 
cendant lord Saturn in the 5th house and 9th lord Venus in 9th 
house is auspicious. As such, mutual Dasa Bhukti of Venus and 


Saturn must be quite auspicious according to Parasari rules. As 
the 6th lord Moon in Rashi chart afflicts Saturn and by the Sun in 
Navamsa Chart, results must be auspicious according to 
Ottarakalamrita but it must cause hurdles according to Parasar. 
In his Sukra Dasa Sani Bhukti (May 1988 to July 1991) Devi Lal 
enjoyed an unenviable position in Janta Dal. Being elected the 
leader of Janta Dal Parliamentary Party in December 1989, he 
allowed V.P. Singh to be the Prime Minister and got content only 
with an important deptt. In July 1990 he was dropped but in Nov. 
1990 he became Deputy Prime Minister in Chandra Shekhar 
Govt. We feel, joining of 6th Lord Moon with sub lord Saturn in 
Rashi chart aided by unfavourable transit of Saturn in 7th and 
8th from his Janma Rashi stood in way of his becoming the Prime 
Minister. 


3. Hyder Ali : Born on Saturday, December 8, 1722 AD 
(NS) at 2:15 A.M. (L.M.T.). 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 205 


Planetary Position : Libra-Lagna; Scorpio-Sun; Moon, 
Mars, Saturn, Mercury & Jupiter Sagittarius-Saturn Ketu; Capri- 
corn-Venus; Gemini, Rahu. Born in Budha Maha Dasha with a 
balance of 15 years, 8 months, 6 days. 


Chart 3 : 


As born in Libra, Saturn and Venus were Yogakarak for him. 


His Venus in friendly sign in 4th house was well disposed and 
Digabali i.e. full of directional strength. His best Yogakarak Sat- 
urn was combust with the Sun. His Saturn was definitely weaker 
than Venus. According to Uttarakalamrita, mutual Dasa-Bhukti 
of Venus and Saturn was likely to give auspicious results as per 
position of well-placed. Venus aspecting 10th house. According 
to Ududaya Pradeep, in Sukra Dasa Sani Bhukti results will be in 
accordance with position of Venus. It was in accordance with 
‘position of Venus here. It was in Sukra Dasa Sani Bhukti (14-06- 
1758 that to 14-08-1761) that Hyder Ali assumed a very power- 
ful position in the Army of Hindu Ruler of Mysore. Gaining confi- 
dence of the ruler, he became first the commander in chief of the 
Amy and at the fag-end of above Sani Bhukti he usurped power 
by treachery. With a person having six planets in secretive sign 
Scorpio and one planet in diplomatic Capricorn treacherous and 
heinous deeds for selfishness could only be expected. Nothing is 
moral or immoral in politics. It was Sani Bhukti in Sukra Dasa 
(14-06-1758 to 14-08-1761 A.D.) that made him the ruler in true 
sense of the term. 


206 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


4. An Example of Affluence : Born at 7-08-1887 at 1:30 
PM. (L.M.T.) Lat 11’ N, Long 77°22’ E in Maha Dasa of Jupiter. 

Planetary Position : Scorpio-Lagna; Capricorn-Ketu; Pi- 
sces-Moon; Gemini-Mars; Cancer-Sun; Saturn, Mercury & Rahu; 
Virgo-Venus Libra-Jupiter. Born in Maha Dasa of Jupiter with a 
balance of only 7 months, 6 days. 


Chart 4: 
For Scorpio Lagna and for Pisces Janma Rashi Venus and 


Saturn are inauspicious. Saturn and Venus are well placed from 
danma Lagna and Janma Rashi. Venus and Saturn are also dis- 
posed mutually quite favourable. Saturn is afflicted by the Sun 
and Rahu joining it whereas Venus is afflicted by Mars and Sat- 
urn. Venus was also debilitated. As per rules of Uttarakalamrita, 
mutual Dasa-Bhukti of Venus and Saturn was capable of best- 
owing upon the native favourable results. Sub period of Saturn in 
the Major period of Venus (13-01-1944 to 13-03-1947) did not 
cause any harm to the native. On the other hand he enjoyed pros- 
perity and other beneficial results during this period. 


5. Mr. Sriramulu, An M.L.C. of Andhra : The native 
was running sub-period of Saturn in Major period of Venus from 
29-03-83 to 29-05-86. Mr. Sriramulu had been elected as an 
M.L.C. in Andhra Pradesh on 29-06-1984. 


Planetary Position : Capricorn-Lagna; Aquarius-Sun; 
Moon & Mercury; Aries-Venus & Ketu; Leo-Saturn and Jupiter; 
Libra-Rahu, Pisces-Mars. ; 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 207 
Chart 5: 
He however died of heart attack in March 1985. As Venus is 


Yogakarak both for Janma Lagna and Janma Rashi and as Sat- 
urn is Lagnesh and Rashish they were both beneficial. As Venus 
and Saturn are in mutual trines, they were supposed to give po- 
litical success. From Janma Lagna Capricorn mutual aspect be- 
tween 2nd Lord Saturn and 7th lord Moon has increased Maraka 
potentiality of Saturn. From Janma Rashi mutual aspect between 
7th lord Sun and 12th Lord Saturn has also increased Maraka 
potentiality of Saturn. Conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn denoted 
prosperity followed by adversity. The native first got political suc- 
cess and then sudden death. Sun/Saturn opposition generally gives 
heart-trouble Sun-Moon combine also gives blood pressure and 
heart-trouble. Ketu joining Venus (5th Lord from Lagna and 4th 
lord from Janma Rashi) was also to cause heart-trouble. The na- 
tive got good and bad results accordingly. 


6. Late Basanta Narayan Singh : The native was run- 
ning sub period of Saturn in Major period of Venus from 24-05- 
1983 to 24-07-1986. He died of heart attack on 3-02-1984. 

Planetary Position : Aries-Lagna & Mercury; Taurus-Ju- 
piter; Gemini-Ketu; Cancer-Saturn; Leo-Mars; Sagittarius-Rahu; 
Aquarius-Venus & Moon; Pisces-Sun. 

Chart 6: 

For Aries Lagna Venus as the 2nd cum 7th lord is a killer. 

Saturn as the 11th lord has both Maraka and Badhaka potential- 


208 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


ity for Moveable Sign Aries. Dasa of a planet in the 11th house 
and Dasa or Bhukti of 11th lord must bring some sudden calam- 
ity or misfortune even if they may give economic prosperity at 
some stage or other. Placement of 2nd cum 7th lord Venus in the 
11th house made Dasa of Venus a powerful Maraka Dasa. As 
lord of 11th house sub lord Saturn was also a powerful killer. 
Shadashtaka relation between Venus and Saturn made them yet 
more evil-doing, 4th house and 5th house and their lords when 
afflicted may cause heart-trouble or accidents of Vehicle. His 4th 
house was afflicted by occupation of Saturn. His 5th house was 
afflicted by occupation of retrograde Mars who aspected his 4th 
lord Moon and 5th lord Sun. It denoted fear of death from heart 
trouble, accident or some serious surgical operation. Death of the 
native on account of heart disease in Sani Bhukti and Sukra Dasa 
was destined. 


Conclusions : 


From the discussions made so far it is obvious that there is 
wisdom of some truth in Rules of Brihat Parasar Hora, Ududaya 
Pradeep and Uttarakalamrita on mutual Dasha-Bhukti of Venus- 
Saturn or Saturn-Venus. Under certain conditions mutual Dasha- 
Bhukti of Venus-Saturn or Saturn-Venus may cause downfall or 
loss of power and position. It is, however, difficult to agree with 
views of Bhavartha Ratnakara that in all circumstances and invarially 
such Dasha-Bhukti will be causing downfall or misfortune. 


CHAPTER-XIX 
YOGAHEENA DASA-CHHIDRA 


Late R. Santhanam is his book “Essentials of Predictive 
Hindu Astrology” under its chapter 18 “Stars and Financial Down- 
turns” has stressed over the point that sub-period of Mars in ma- 
jor period of Rahu must be giving an economic downfall though 
he himself admitted that in his own case no such economic down- 
fall was experienced. Late R. Santhanam was not the lone as- 
trologer to have had such adverse views or perceptions about the 
results of sub-period of Mars in major period of Rahu, there are 
many others who viewed Rahu-Mars Dasa-Bhukti as quite ob- 
noxious period. This leads us to make a probe into the matter. 


It is the view of the followers of Parasari Vimshottari Dasa 
system that out of nine sub-periods of a major period, the first sub- 
period of every major period, which is the sub-period of major 
period, itself gives ordianary results or the results of Karakatwa or 
Significance of sub-lord. Probably, the Ist sublord prefers to give its 
functional results in subperiod of saha-Karmi or saha-Dharmi sub- 
lord. Kalidasa in Uttara kalamrita says that all planets yield in their 
own Bhuktis in their Dasas which are natural to them if they are 
alone or to those planets with which they are conjoined. 

“gar an aafturye aed Taq: CayeHt HeTA" 

There are some others who adhere to the view that major 
lord in its subperiod gives us an outline of the sum-total of the 
results likely to occur in a major period. We have had several 
instances before us where in major lord in its own sub-period 
gave prosperity or adversity including death. Therefore, it seems 
to be unwise to agree with the view that the first subperiod of a 
major period as a rule goes almost insignificant. 


It has been similarly held by the followers of Parasari 


Vimshottari Dasa system that last sub-period of a Major Period 
or the closing sub-period of a Maha Dasa known as Dasa-Chhidra 


210 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


does not give good results in general. Students of astrology must 
have noted the following Dasa-Chhidras : 


(i) Subperiod of Venus in the major period of the Sun. 
(ii) Subperiod of the Sun in the major period of the Moon. 
(iii) Subperiod of the Moon in the major period of Mars. 
(iv) Subperiod of Mars in the major period of Rahu. 
(v) Subperiod of Rahu in Major period of Jupiter. 
(vi) Subperiod of Jupiter in major period of Saturn. 
(vii) Subperiod of Saturn in major period of Mercury. 


(viii) Subperiod of Mercury in major period of Ketu. 
(ix) Subperiod of Ketu in major period of Venus. . 


Of the aforesaid nine Dasa Chhidras the 4th viz. subperiod of 
Mars in major period of Rahu is the only Dasa-Chhidra in which 
both major lord and sub-lord are extremely volatile. Under the cir- 
cumstances our Sages rightly visualised that subperiod of Mars in 
major period of Rahu might prove to be ruinous unless there are 
powerful counteracting forces to undo them. It is the view of Laghu 
Parasari that Rahu and Ketu, when placed in evil 3rd, 6th and 11th 
houses, will be giving inauspicious results in subperiod of Malefics. 
As in case of Rahu Maha Dasa, subperiod of Mars will also consti- 
tute Dasa Chhidra. It follows, therefore, that sub-period of Mars in 
major period of Rahu may give benefic results if Rahu is placed in 
evil Trishadaya (3rd, 6th and 11th) houses but this is in violations 
of general rule that malefics in Upachaya houses (3, 6, 10, 11) give 
auspicious results in their Dasas. 


According to Brihat Parasar Hora Sastra, subperiod of Mars 
in major period of Rahu is not necessarily an evil period. Rather, it 
may help the native to regain his or her lost power and position or 
regain of one’s lost wealth or release of one’s blocked money. If 
Mars is posited in Kendra, Trikona or 11th from the ascendant and 
major lord Rahu also or when sublord Mars is combined with some 
benefic or it is in its own or exalted sign, Mars in the 3rd from Rahu 
is also held to be auspicious. It is only when sublord Mars is posited 
in the 8th, 6th or 12th from major lord Rahu and when such Mars 
is combined with malefics (or even aspected) by malefics that 
subperiod of Mars may cause danger, losses and harms. 


“Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 211 


terrta ata oamreety Brett 
wat a Nd wearel cadatstiar i 
ea erorinieatartigrrg a | 
yeearanet ara ya 
farmer yourvananifepa 
Wah saat at geared ATs ar 
Teac i wreart =_wstashan 
Gaaty ara wawatya weAeqil 
earaee Retreat arTqerferrerat 


Chapter 55, B.PH.S. 

While Parasar and his followers have considered the results of 
subperiod of Mars according to its positioning from the ascendant 
and major lord Rahu overlooking the positioning of Rahu from the 
ascendant, Vyankatesh Sharma in his Sarvartha Chintamani has 
out-lined the results of subperiod of Malefics in major period of 
Rahu only according to the positioning of Rahu from the ascen- 
dant overlooking the position of sublord in the chart. 

According to Vyankatesh, subperiod of malefic planets in 
the major period of Rahu will be giving following results as per 
placement of Rahu from the ascendant. 

(1) Rahu in the Ist house : Much sorrow and trouble 
from the government, fire, and thieves. 

(2) Rahu in Trik (6th, 8th or 12th) house : Quarrel, 
disease, fire, accident, fear from the government, thieves and 
poison, fear of diseases like asthma, consumption, urinal disor- 
ders, pain, laziness etc. 

(3) Rahu in 4th, 7th and 10th houses : House being 


212 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


burnt, troubles to eyes, diseases, trouble to wife and sons, loss of 
position, mental worry, loss of character, loss of prestige, sudden 
quarrels, trouble from the governments, thieves and fire. 

(4) Rahu in trines (5th or 9th) house : Much troubles, 
sinful acts, bad name, bad food, loss of agriculture, cattle and 
land, trouble from the government and losses. 

(5) Rahu in 3rd or 11th house : At first end gets favour 
from the government. At the end of subperiod there is trouble from 
thieves, fire and the government, destruction of brothers, etc. 

(6) Rahu in the 2nd house : Loss of wealth, mental 
sorrow, loss of wife, and sons. 

It will not be out of place to mention here that according to 
Vyankatesh also, subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu will 
be giving quite adverse results except when Rahu is in the 3rd or 
11th house. 

Mantreshwar in his Phala Deepika ascribes the following re- 
sults to happen in subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu : Fear 
from rulers, fire, thieves and weapons, loss of body or loss of life or 
menial disorder, troubles to eyes or heart trouble, fall from power and 
position, or loss of place and position : fall from height etc. 


Faery POT PRATT Ale AT ARTS: | 
Tam AIS Fara Burafa Warepa: 
(Sloka 38, Chapter 21, Phala Deepika) 
Vaidyanatha in Jataka Parijata gives the following results : 


Subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu gives troubles after 
troubles, dumb foundedness in all works and loss of memory. 


wataxadarn: aaa yyeat | 
foafeegaata: ware Ha WEST 
(Chapter 18, Jataka Parijata) 
Later on Vaidyanatha himself says : “Whatever material pos- 


sessions Rahu confer during most parts of its Maha Dasa, they 
are destined to be destroyed in ending part of its Maha Dasa.” 


Weems 9=qaaneiyg «sented 
Taet Ww aaa wad faa 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 213 


areal gamete area weeqaq| 
wired wit fagas weeahaq 
Loss or destruction of all (ill-got) material possessions con- 
ferred during Maha Dasa of Rahu is possible during Dasa Chhidra 
or Dasa End of Rahu Maha Dasa. It may confer also fall from 
position or loss of father in some cases. 


Dhundhi Raja in Jataka Bharana says that subperiod of 
cruel planet (like Mars here) in major period of cruel planet (like 
Rahu here) may confer enmities, loss of wealth or loss of life. 


RIS Ges weit Rae awredq 
waaatseea uftera eqrery atat afta aca 
(Jataka Bharanam) 


Practical Examples 


1. Case af a Leo-Born native : We are first discussing 
the case of a Leo-born native, as discussed by Mr. R. Santhanam 
in his aforesaid book. We cast Rasi Chart on the basis of plan- 
etary data furnished by Mr. R. Santhanam. 


It is said about this native that during Antar Dasa of Mars in 
Rahu Maha Dasa (3-10-1985 to 21-10-1986) whole life’s sav- 
ings of this native worth a crore of rupees were off set. He started 
reestablishing himself in the later part of Jupiter’s Antar in Jupiter 
Maha Dasa. His Jupiter Jupiter-Mars dasa in July 1988 gave him 
another loss of Rs. 20 Lakhs. 


214 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Presence of Mercury in the 11th house by itself makes one 
quite wealthy. In case of Leo-born native, presence of 2nd-11th 
house aspected by 5th lord Jupiter isa Maha Dhana Yoga. Mutual 
aspect between 5th lord Jupiter and 9th lord Mars also constitutes 
Maha Dhana Yoga. That a person could bear a loss of more than 
Rupees one crore goes to prove that the native was endowed with 
a powerful Dhana Yoga. He has Vargottama Lagna and Vargottama 
Moon but his ascendant lord Sun was badly afflicted in Rashi Chart 
and was debilitated in Navamsa. For Leo Lagna Mars-Venus com- 
bine in the 9th house is a Raja Yoga. Mutual aspect between Atma- 
Karaka Venus and Amatya-Karaka Jupiter also constitutes Raja 
Yoga. These are the plus points of the horoscope. 


Minus points of the horoscope are equally interesting. 2nd cum 
11th house is sandwitched between malefic Rahu-Sun-Gulika com- 
bine and Saturn causing Papa-Karatari Yoga. Further, aspect of 
Saturn on the 2nd house, 9th house, 9th lord and 10th lord de- 
noted both financial and professional setback. Mars is a Yoga Karak 
for Leo Lagna. An evil aspect of Saturn on Mars generally 
brings about sudden calamity. Aspect of Saturn on the 
2nd house is supposed to drain away or deplete savings, 
particularly. Yet another important vision for financial set-back 
seems to be that the 12th lord Moon in inimical sign Capricorn in 
6th house in Navamsa of 6th lord (Makara Navamsa) is capable of 
making the native unhappy and a victim of financial bankruptcy, 
more so when such Moon is also aspected by the evil lord Saturn. 
dust as the 2nd house rules over savings and accumula- 
tion of wealth, the 12th house rules over draining away of 
accumulated wealth. Just see the marvel of 12th here. 12th house 
is occupied by evil lord Satum who rules over indebtedness or dis- 
saving. Further, 12th house is not only occupied by evil malefic 
Saturn but also, is aspected by malefic Mars. 12th lord Moon is 
aspected by malefic Saturn. There is no benefic influence on the 
12th house, 12th lord Moon and Karka of the 12th house, that is, 
Saturn. Rather, they are all under the influence of Malefics. Simi- 
larly, there is no benefic influence on the 2nd house (saving). Rather, 
the 2nd house is under evil aspect of Saturn and the 2nd Jord Mer- 
cury is sandwitched between Malefics inspite of aspect of 5th cum 
8th lord Jupiter on the same. As 5th lord aspect of Jupiter on 2nd 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 215 


cum 11th lord Mercury must have enriched him but as 8th lord 
Jupiter seeing over leakage must have abetted 6th lord Saturn in 
draining away his savings as predestined. As both ascendant lord 
Sun and 9th lord Mars are afflicted and weakened, the native has 
to suffer heavily. 


As the 9th from of Lagna is ruled by Mars and the 9th from 
the Moon is ruled by Mercury, we must add root number of Mars 
being 6 Kalas to root number of Mercury being 8 Kalas equal to 
14 Kalas. Divide the total by 12. The remainder 2 counted from 
Chandra Lagna, that is, Pisces will be special Dhana lagna. 
Mercury in angle and Saturn and Ketu in trines from this special 
Dhana lagna are supposed to give wealth in course of their Dasas 
and Bhukti while Rahu and the Sun situated in the 3rd and Jupi- 
ter in 8th from this speical Dhana Lagna are supposed to destroy 
wealth and give unnecessary expenses and losses. 


Stellar Position : As Janma Nakshatra is Uttara shadha. 
Mars rules over evil 3rd star (Vipata) Jupiter rules over evil 5th 
star (Pratwara). 


Bhadhaka Position : As 9th lord in 9th house for fixed 
lagna Leo and as 11th lord for moveable Chandra lagna Capricorn 
Mars is a Badhaka. As lord of 64th Navamsa again Mars is a 
Badhaka. Planets joining a Badhaka or aspected by Badhaka also 
become Badhaks. Accordingly, Venus joining Mars or Saturn, Ju- 
piter and Ketu aspected by Mars have also become Badhakas. 


As far as we have been able to understand the present case, 
financial reversal is here linked with some professional debacle. 
Presence of Rahu and Gulika along with the Sun in the 10th house 
denoted some major professional set-back in Maha Dasa of Rahu 
as the native had passed Maha Dasa of the Sun in his early child- 
hood. The native must have dodged the state or played some foul 
game in order to become very rich in Rahu Maha Dasa itself and 
for which he was destined to pay the price commensurate with 
his guilt. A multimillionaire will lose in terms of millions but a 
beggar will lose in terms of loafs or coins only. Karmic Planets 
never fail to punish the natives for their misdeeds. Saturn in the 
12th house becomes a powerful karmic planet. Saturn may choose 
to punish in Dasa of Rahu as Rahu deputises for Satum. It is said 


216 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


that Rahu in its Maha Dasa gives fabulous wealth through dubi- 
ous means but the same melts away at the fag end of Rahu Maha 
Dasa. Rahu is a Shadowy planet. Therfore, ill-got wealth and 
money of Rahu Dasa is also destined to disappear like a shadow 
as soon as the influences of Rahu Maha Dasa are over. Of course, 
Rahu as lord of favourable 4th Star (Kshema) is auspicious, Rahu 
in Kendra in its exalted sign is also auspicious, Rahu in conjunc- 
tion with the ascendant lord may injure and weaken the ascen- 
dant lord Sun but it is benefitted by sapping the Virtues of the 
ascendant-lord then. Rahu in the 10th house gives one a sudden 
rise in the same way as Saturn in the 10th house gives a sudden 
rise, therefore, the native must have a fabulous rise, during major 
part of his Rahu Mahadasa. As Saturn in the 10th house too 
gives a sudden downfall after a sudden rise. Further Rahu is oc- 
cupying the lst star known as Ghata Tara, which must damage 
or injure a person. Association of Gulika too harmed Rahu. Rahu 
in 3rd from special Dhana Lagna was destroyer of wealth. No 
wonder, Rahu Maha Dasa that gave the native a sudden rise also 
gave him a sudden downfall. 

It may seem to be somewhat incongruous to us that Mars 
being a Yoga Karak for Leo-born natives occupying a trine and 
joining 10th lord Venus and also receiving aspect of 5th lord Ju- 
piter will be giving a kind of great set-back in its subperiod during 
major period of Rahu. 

Mars-Venus combine for a Leo ascendant is a Raja-Yoga. It 
is said that the lord of the house occupied by Rahu and Gulika 
becomes destructive. Accordingly, Venus, lord of the sign Taurus, 
tenanted by Rahu and Gulika has become destructive here. De- 
structive Venus joining Mars made Mars also destructive. As lords 
of evil 3rd Star and 64th Navamsa also Mars was destined to 
cause upheavels in the life of the native. Aspect of Saturn on Mars- 
Venus combine in the 9th house impaired fortune and profession. 
As 9th house and 9th lord also represented wealth and windfall 
gains, evil aspect of Saturn on 9th house and 9th lord Mars de- 
stroyed considerable part of accumulated wealth and savings. An 
evil aspect of Saturn on Mars as in the present case or its vice 
versa is well-known for causing sudden calamity like a bolt from 
blue. It will not be out of place to mention here that Mars as 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 217 


dispositor of Ketu had become a destructive Karmic. No wonder, 
it caused upheavel in its Bhukti in Rahu Maha Dasha. 


2. Case of another Leo-born native : Born on 10-10- 
1959 at 4:20 A.M. (Chart 2) 


It is reported that Jupiter Maha Dasa began on 25th Janu- 
ary, 1998. Prior to it, in Antar Dasa of Mars in Rahu Maha Dasa 
the native suffered heavy losses in his business that put him in the 
debt trap. 


In Rashi Chart Sun-Mars-Rahu combine in the 2nd house is 
detrimental for savings and accumulation of wealth. Yoga-Karaka 
Mars is combust. Aspect of Saturn (who is the 6th lord or lord of 
debts and Karaka of losses) on the 2nd house and Mars-Sun-Mars 
combine therein has further worsened the financial situation here. 
Karaka of wealth, Jupiter is well-placed in Kendra but its dispositor 
Mars is combust and afflicted by Rahu and Saturn. Saturn being 
lord of 6th house, lord of 64th Navamsa and Karaka of loss is quite 
harmful here. Aspect of Saturn on Sun-Mars-Rahu combine in the 
2nd house was enough to inflict monetary losses and indebtedness 
on the native in sub-period of Mars in major period of Rahu. 


Assuming Virgo to be Dasa-lord Lagna, Mars as the 3rd-cum- 
8th lord is quite detrimental. It is also combust. From this point of 
view also subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu was capable 
of causing financial losses to the native and put him in debt trap. In 
Bhava Chart Rahu has gone weak in a Bhava Sandhi is in the Ist 


218 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 
Bhava. In Bhava Chart Rahu will be in 12th from Mars. This was 
also capable of causing financial losses to the native. 

For all these reasons the native suffered financial losses and 
fell in debt-trap in Dasa Chhidra or last Bhukti of Rahu Maha Dasa. 


: 8. Case of 3rd Leo-Born Native : Born on 28-06-1933 
at 9:15 A.M. L.M.T. at 25°47’ N & 84°47’ E (Chart 3). 


Subperiod of Mars in Rahu Maha Dasa From 25-04-1994 to 
13-05-1995, 


mi 
5 
NEPKET 
MON,JUP : 


BN NS 


This is the horoscope of the scribe who retired as the Addi- 
tional Secretary to the Government of Bihar on 31-10-1993 in 
subperiod of the Moon in Rahu Maha Dasa. Within a month of 
his retirement the native was able to get the amout of his G.PF. 
and Group Insurance. His leave encashment was also sanctioned. 
As regards sanction of Pension and Gratuity, the same was kept 
in abeyance. The native filed a writ petition in the High Court in 
December 1994 which was disposed of in favour of the native in 
February 1995 and the Govt. had to pay also interest at the rate 
of 10 percent over all arrear amounts. Prior to that in July 1994 
the native was also promoted in the rank of Special Secretary 
with retrospective effect from 1-06-1992. 


Major part of amounts nearly Rs. Five Lakhs drawn by the 
native in subperiod of 12th lord Moon was spent on purchase of a 
residential flat. It was, however, on commencement of subperiod 
of Mars that the native came in possession of his flat in the first 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 219 


week of June 1994. It was in sub-period of Rahu in subperiod of 
Mars in major period of Rahu (17-05-94 to 13-07-94) that the 
native acquired a flat and got his last due promotion even after 
his retirement. Due to intransigence of the State Government, the 
native had to go without Pension and Gratuity for about 16 months 
but he filed and won a suit quite easily in this regard in subperiod 
of Mars in major period of Rahu. Ultimately, this period proved to 
be financially gainful to the native. 


While running sub-subperiod of Jupiter in subperiod of Mars 
in major period of Rahu from 13-07-94 to 3-02-98 it was in early 
morning hours on 2-08-98 that the native fell down unconscious 
in bathroom due to depression and he was almost taken to be 
dead by his family members but he came to senses within half an 
hour. , 


Let us analyze the astrological factors here. Rahu in Aquarius 
in Kendra in Rasi Chart is auspicious. Sublord Mars in 8th from 
major lord Rahu is definitely not a favourable position. Mars as 
Yoga Karaka is definitely favourable. Mars is neither combined 
with nor aspected by any evil planet. Insipite of hurdles it was 
capable of pushing ahead. 


Taking Aquarius to be Dasa Lord Lagna, Mars becomes the 
10th lord. Mars gave promotion and victory in a suit. 


As Jupiter ruled over 8th house in Rashi chart and also as 
Mars aspected the 8th house and also as Jupiter was posited in 
12th of Mars it was sub-subperiod of Jupiter in subperiod of Mars 
in major period of Rahu that caused fear of death to the native. 


Mars and Saturn are Karaka of landed property. Mars as 
lord of 4th house also rules over landed property. Rahu is posited 
in sign of Saturn. Thus both Mars and Rahu being linked with 
Saturn here equipped the native with new landed property in sub- 
subperiod of Rahu in subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu. 


Though 2nd house is free from evil aspect of Saturn, Karaka 
of losses, yet 2nd cum 11th lord ruling over wealth has occupied 
house of losses where it is aspected by Saturn, Karaka of losses. 
12th lord Moon ruling over lasses is joined with Jupiter and also it 
aspects Rahu. Result is that the accumulated money that started 
draining away since subperiod of Saturn in major period of Rahu 


220 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


till present subperiod of Mars in major period of Jupiter has made 
the native economically very weak. For this situation Dasa-Chhidra 
of Rahu Dasa and other important factors discussed above are to 
be blamed. ; 


4. Arjun Singh : Born on 5th Nov. 1930. 2001 hrs. at 
Rewa. (Chart 4). 


It we count year to be of 365% days. Mr. Arjun Singh was 
running subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu from 9-06- 
1992 to 27-06-1993. If we count the year as a Savana Year of 


360 days Mr. Singh was running Rahu-Mars period from 15-07- 
1991 to 7-08-1992. It is well-known that Mr. Arjun Singh had 
joined as a Cabinet Minister in Narasimha Rao’s government in 
June 1991 itself. There can be no doubt about it that Mr. Arjun 
singh was at the helm of his power and popularity in Narasimha 
Rao’s Government from June 1991 to June 1993. In the wake of 
shares scandal he was even being considered as a successor to 
Mr. Narasimha Rao in the year 1993. It was on advent of Guru 
Maha Dasa that Mr. Arjun Singh went out of office after the year 
1993. What we want to emphasize here is that Mr. Arjun Singh 
had no downfall and suffered no harm during Dasa-Chhidra of 
Rahu Maha Dasa. : 


Mr. Arjun Singh has his Rahu Placed in the 11th from th 
ascendant. Rahu in Aries sign in an upachaya house is upheld. 
As regards Mars it is debilitated in Rashi but it is causing Neecha 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 221 


Bhanga Raja Yoga too. Mars is Rashisha, Mars is in an auspi- 
cious house from Janma Lagna, Chandra Lagna and also there 
has been no evil impact on Mars. Thus subperiod of Mars in ma- 
jor period of Rahu had no evil bearings on Mr. Arjun Singh. Rather 
Mr. Arjun Singh had his downfall in Maha Dasa of Jupiter who is 
Badhaka. 


5. Late R. Santhanam : Born on 21-05-1944 at Tirupathi 
at 2020 hrs. (Chart 5). He had debilitated Mars combined with 
exalted Jupiter and Rahu in 9th house from Janma Lagna. Ex- 
alted Jupiter in Kendra from his Moon however cancelled debili- 


tation of Mars and caused Neecha Bhanga Raja Yoga. When- 
ever Rahu combines with Jupiter, Dasa of Rahu becomes 
auspicious but Dasa of Jupiter becomes malevolent. When- 
ever Mars combines with Jupiter Dasa of Mars becomes more 
beneficial than that of Jupiter. Assuming Cancer to be Dasa-Lord 
Lagna Mars becomes Yoga-Karaka and quite beneficial. As Mars 
is placed in auspicious 9th from Lagna in Rasi Chart and 
Navamsa Chart and also as Mars and Rahu is conjoined in both 
charts, subperiod of Mars in Rahu Maha Dasa gave him no re- 
versal. Rather, it gave him great rise. In words of Late R. 
Santhanam. 


“In the 70s when I was beginning to understand 
astrology, I used to meet an elderly astrologer. His warn- 
ing was that the ninth subperiod in the Dasa of Rahu 
could almost wipe one out financially. I had seen him 


222 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


even advising his clients to transfer major properties/ 
financial deals in some relative’s name. Then I did not 
realise the potential of the subperiod in question.” 


On the contrary I rose very high in 1983-84 in my Mars 
Bhukti of Rahu Dasa. But I do not brush aside that elderly 
astrologer’s advice. As a coincidence, later on. I had occasions to 
chance upon five or six horoscopes where ill-placed Mars was 
Bhukti lord under Rahu Dasa. These natives suffered the worst 
financial crisis of their lives refer page 164-65 of Predictive Hindu 
Astrology by Late R. Santhanam. Readers who have preserved a 
copy of May 1998 of TOA must feel bewildered to see that Mars 
and Rahu occupied the evil 8th house in Mr. Santhanam’s Cuspal 
Chart and yet subperiod of Mars in major period of Rahu instead 
of giving any set-back gave prosperity to the native. Did 12th lord 
Venus in the 6th house and 6th lord Mars afflicted_by malefics in 
Cuspal Chart constitute Vipareeta Raja Yoga? 

In earlier pages it has been emphasized that in case of Jupi- 
ter-Rahu combine Dasa of Rahu becomes benevolent and Dasa of 
Jupiter becomes malevolent. This observation does not mean that 
Jupiter will lose all its good properties and will behave in a blind 
way. 

In case of Mr. R. Santhanam of Scorpio Lagna Jupiter as the 
lord of 2nd cum Sth house was exalted in 9th house and Dasa of 
Jupiter, therefore, gave him immense prosperity and popularity for 
about 13 years but as his Jupiter owned Maraka 2nd house and 
also as Jupiter ruled over evil 5th star and it occupied evil 7th star 
or Vadha Tara. Jupiter in last quarter of its Maha Dasa caused his 
sudden death in October 1997. He died of a severe heart attack. 
An afflicted Mars has evil 8th house aspect on Aquarius, a sign 
well-known for causing heart disease. Aquarius is also known as 
Hrida-Roga. Lord of Hrida-Roga of Aquarius Saturn has evil 3rd 
house aspect on Leo sign representing heart. 4th house for the as- 
cendant is aspected by Saturn. 12th from the 4th is occupied by 
enigmatic Ketu with from Chandra lagna is occupied by Malefic 
Mars. Rahu and 12th lord Jupiter, 5th from the Moon is aspected 
by Saturn, 4th and 5th house represent heart. For these reasons he 
had so sudden a massive heart-stroke. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 223 


As experience shows mutual Dasas-Bhukti of planets joining 
Rahu in the 11th house are trouble-some and also as Rahu Bhukti 
in Guru Dasa being Dasa-Chhidra is generally trouble-some. 

Jupiter Dasa Rahu Bhukti may generally obstruct one’s pro- 
fessional pursuits and financial prosperity. As far as we under- 
» stand, Late R. Santhanam had a premature end of life in Guru 
Dasa Rahu Bhukti according to Revati Ayanamsa. 


6. Another Case of Guru Dasa-Rahu Bhukti : 


Rahu Bhukti in Guru Maha Dasha may upset things in life 
by making one a victim of some rash action or some untoward 
incident. 


A native born on 22nd April fr 
1968 at 1:20 A.M. (1.S.T.) at 
25°22’ N & 86°27’ E in Maha 
Dasha of Mars with a balance of 
2 years has had the following birth 
chart. 


The native is running Bhukti 
of Rahu in Guru Maha Dasha 
from 27-11-2001 to 21-04-2004. 
There is shadashtaka relation be- 
tween Jupiter and Rahu. The na- 
tive suffered from urinal and rec- 
tum problems. He lost balance of mind and family peace. With 
dawn of Sani Maha Dasa on 21-04-2004 he can hope for a better 
future. As he is bom in a moveable sign Saturn having aspect on 
the 5th and 9th Bhavas, must begin to rise in life in its Maha Dasha. 


Sukra Antar in Sani Maha Dasa may give a rise in his for- 
tune. 


CHAPTER-XX 


YOGAHEENA BHUKTI OF 
ATMAKARAK 


Mahadeva Pathak, an eminent astrologer of 1th century A.D. 
(2nd half) in his famous work Jataka Tattwa (V-36) says : 


Uren yifererres stent tarretieetyal | 
During the Bhukti of Atmakaraka: planet, a fall from one’s 
position and loss may be experienced. 


Dr. B.V. Raman in none of his writings has ever emphasised 
the usefulness of the above rule although he has discussed about 
the usefulness of Atmakaraka and Amatyakaraka planets suffi- 
ciently in his Notable Horoscopes. He has emphasised the point 
that Dasas of Atmakaraka and Amatyakaraka planets, if connected 
with each other and well-placed in the horoscopes, elevate the 
position of the native which gives us the hint that Bhuktis of 
Atmakaraka and Amatyakaraka planets under similar conditions 
must give equally good results. The reason clearly is that the en- 
tire Dasa results, whether a main dasa or Antar, is governed by 
one common principle under Parasari scheme of things. In Maha 
Dasa Phala, we take into consideration the sign-position of plan- 
ets, lordship of planets from Lagna and Moon, placement of plan- 
ets from Lagna and Moon, strength of planets, Karakatwa of planets, 
impact of special combinations on the planets etc. In Bhukti also, 
all these points are to be kept in mind. In Antara period, however, 
we may have to consider also the placement of sub-lord from 
major lord in addition to the same from Janma Lagna and Janma 
Rasi. This is the only difference between the two. 


Unfortunately the aforesaid objectionable rule of Mahadeva 
has been given wide currency in some comers without properly 
understanding its implications. Had protagonists of this ruled delved 
deep into the matter and examined the efficacy of this rule in ad- 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 225 


equate number of cases, they would not have come to such hasty 
conclusions. | have examined the efficacy of this rule in depth and 
have arrived at the conclusion that it is a misleading rule. 


The planet with the highest degree in any Rasi at the time of 
birth of a native is the Atmakaraka planet and the planet (lesser) 
degree wise next to Atmakaraka is called Amatyakaraka. 


Jaimini Astrology chiefly based on Karaka too does not men- 
tion any sutra in support of Mahadeva’s aforesaid rule. 


According to Parasara, planets cannot give results against 
the directions of Atmakaraka in the same way as the ministers 
and other officials cannot do anything without the express order 
of the king. If Atmakaraka is inauspicious, other auspicious plan- 
ets cannot give their auspicious results (in full). Similarly, if 
Atmakaraka is auspicious, even cruel planets will not be able to 
give their inauspicious results. This is a basic Parasari rule on 
Atmakaraka and if any rule is derived contrary to this basic rule, 
it cannot be acceptable. 


Two things are clear from Parasara : 
(i) Atmakaraka is a regulator of other planets. 


(ii) Results of other planets depend on auspicious and inauspi- 
cious, Atmakaraka will not only give auspicious results itself 
but will impel even cruel and bad planets to behave like good 
boys whereas an inauspicious Atmakaraka will not allow even 
other auspicious planets to give their desired results (in full). 


But Mahadeva has failed to make a proper distinction be- 
tween Atmakaraka of various natures. This is his fundamental 
mistake in understanding the problem. He has categorised Bhukti 
of Atmakaraka planets as a lot of devils and has not tried to see if 
any of them can be angles too. Therefore, his rule on Atmakaraka 
Bhukti is not sustainable on grounds of fundamental principles of 
astrology. 


According to Parasara, Atmakaraka and Putrakaraka in 
_Lagna or 5th house in own sign, own Navamsa or in exaltation 
aspected by benefics make one famous and happy. The 9th lord 
and Atmakaraka in the 5th, 7th or Lagna combined with or 
aspected by some benefic will cause Rajayoga. Malefics in 3rd 


226 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


and 6th from Lagna lord or Atmakaraka will make one powerful 
and rich. Atmakaraka in benefic Rasi or benefic Navamsa will 
make one wealthy. 


If 10th lord is combined with Amatyakaraka or 
Amatyakaraka Rasi, it will make one a minister. If Atmakaraka 
is combined with Amatyakaraka, it will also make one a minister. 
Amatyakaraka in Kendra or Trikona from Atmakaraka may also 
make one a minister. Atmakaraka in own sign or in exaltation in 
Kendra or Trikona when combined with 9th lord will make the 
native a minister. lf Atmakaraka is also Janma Rasi lord and com- 
bines with some benefic in Lagna, it will make one a minister in 
old age. If Atmakaraka is combined with benefics, it may give 
gain of wealth from the Government. Venus and Moon in 4th 
from Atmakaraka or Atmakaraka combined with 5th lord in 
Kendra or Trikona will make one a Government official. 


If Atmakaraka and Lagna lord aspect the 12th house, they 
cause poverty. It is an accepted principle of astrology that planets 
give the results of Yogas only in their Dasas. As regards, Bhuktis, 
Mantreswara in Phala Deepika (Chp 20, 36, 43, 44) says : 


a farpie: ad weg ufag 
WMA POMTATAT TAT SUA: It 
sreadairt aaa a foreafi: 


worddyireaa fay erarraenu 
Explaining the implications of Parasari doctrine Td-77¢- 


eeirmety, Mantreswara says that Grahas will give their good and 
- bad results only in their Dasas. Kendra lord and Trikona lord in 
mutual Dasa and Bhukti will generally give auspicious results, if 
Kendra lord occupies Trikona and Trikona lord occupies Kendra. 
Further, Mantreswara says that Dasa lord on its own does not give 
the results of its Bhava in Bhukti of grahas of similar nature and 
friendly to major lord. It means, only Sadharmi and Sambandhi 
grahas will give results on behalf of major lord. Sadharmi is 
explanined as follows : 


(a) A similar nature of Yogakaraka Graha, for example one 
Kendra lord and the other, a Trikona lord or one 8th lord and the 
other, a 3rd lord. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 227 


(b) One benefic is Sadharmi to another benefic. 
(c) One malefic is Sadharmi to another malefic. 
Similarly, Sambandhi Grahas can be of five kinds : 
(a) Grahas exchanging their mutual houses. 

(b) Grahas combining in the same Rasi. 

(c) Grahas in mutual aspect. 

(d) Grahas in mutual Kendras and 

(e) Grahas occupying Trikona houses. _ 


Therefore, the fundamental rule of Bhukti is established as 
follows : 


Bhukti lords are not independent entities. They are subordi- 
nated to major lord. Major lord will give its good or bad results 
during Bhukti of other Grahas as per rules of Sadharmi and 
Sambandhi discussed above. Major lords in their own Bhukti may 
not give their Bhava results but they give their general and Karaka 
results. It follows from the same principle that Grahas unrelated 
and of different nature from major lord will be giving only their 
general and Karaka results in their Bhuktis. This is an important 
guideline for practitioners. 


Mahadeva’s rule on Bhukti of Atmakaraka also does not fit 
within the framework of fundamental rules of Bhukti as delin- 
eated by Mantreswara. 


Atmakaraka as sub-lord will also be governed by the above 
fundamental rule of Sadharmi and Sambandhi sub-lord to major 
lord and as such it ceases to have a right to give any fully inde- 
pendent result out of bounds of the majorlord. Even if Atmakaraka 
is Adharmi and Asambandhi to major lord it is supposed to give 
results according to its maleficence or beneficence. It means, 
Atmakaraka when auspicious will give auspicious results. 
Only inauspicious Atmakarakas afflicted and badly placed 
in horoscopes can give adverse results like fall from po- 
sition and troubles of servere import in their Bhuktis. 
We do not rule out the possibility that Atmakaraka under such 
adverse circumstances may give some what heavier blow than 
other planets in its Bhukti. But this, by no strech of imagination, 
leads ‘to infer that the Bhukti of Atmakaraka will invariably give 


228 Advanced Study of Virnshottari Dasha 


bad results as hinted in Jataka Tattwa. What | have discussed so 
far are the fundamental rules of astrology and we have seen how 
the rule on Bhukti of Atmakaraka is at variance with them. 


Assuming that a natural malefic holding the portfolio of 
Atmakaraka may inflict some heavy blow in its Bhukti; we find 
also many such restraining rules. One such rule of Phala Deepika 
says that a natural malefic related to or connected with Yogakaraka 
will cease to give its bad results and instead give the results of 
Yogakaraka. According to Varaha Mihira vide Brihat Jataka, 2 
planet in debilitation, inimical sign or combustion will also give 
good results along with bad ones in its Dasa and Bhukti if it is 
placed in an auspicious house and Navamsa. Further the transit: 
of Grahas may also modify and regulate the results of major o1 
sub-lords. 


Ever since this rule came to my knowledge, | have tested the 
validity of this rule in several cases and found that this rule in it: 
present form is hardly reliable. In my own case my Atmakarake 
Jupiter is well-placed in Simha Lagna with Moon and Ketu. Mar: 
is placed in 2nd, Saturn in 6th, Rahu in 7th, Sun in 11th anc 
Mercury-Venus in 12th. Jupiter Bhukti in Venus or Moon or Mars 
or even Rahu Dasas.did not give me any fall from position or loss. 
Of course Jupiter Bhukti-Sun Dasa gave me mixed results. It gave 
a slight fall in my position. | experienced some troubles and had 
to undergo some kind of humiliation also. But the same Bhukti 
gave me an economic status which of course was not upto my 
expectations. The main reason for adverse result was transit of 
Jupiter in 3rd and Saturn in 4th from my Janma Rasi. The main 
point for consideration is that Bhukti of Atmakaraka in one out of 
five or six Dasas gives bad results on account of other astrologi- 
cal reasons it is unwise to say that Bhukti of Atmakaraka will 
invariably give bad results in all Dasas. 


It is true that there are cases where Atmakaraka is itself a 
killer or where it is connected with some killer and if its Bhukti 
falls in death-part of life it has caused death as any other planet in 
the same position could have done. But death in such cases has 
occurred on account of Maraka potentiality of concerned Graha. 


Similarly, there may be cases where Atmakaraka Graha as 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 229 


lord of a Badhaka house from Janma Lagna or Janma Rasi or 
when placed in a Badhaka house may cause some serious hurdles 
in its Bhukti. An Atmakaraka in 1st or last degree of a Rasi may 
also give troubles in its Bhukti. But even non-Atmakaraka Grahas 
will give similar results in their Bhuktis under similar conditions. 


Dr. B.V. Raman’s Notable Horoscope is perhaps the most 
authentic book on Hindu practical astrology. Dr. Raman has dis- 
cussed the role of Atmakaraka and Amatyakaraka and also natu- 
ral Karaka Grahas at several places but nowhere has he consid- 
ered it worthwhile to say that Bhukti of Atmakaraka gave down- 
fall'or misery to any native although every such native experi- 
enced Bhuktis of Atmakaraka Grahas in his life. Dr. Raman must 
have gone through Jataka Tattwa much before most of us had an 
occasion to see this book. He must have found this rule irrelevant 
and, therefore, ignored it. 


Neverthelesses, | have examined this rule in some important 
cases. | have examined 30 cases in all. 23 cases (Case No. 1 to 
- 23) have been taken from Notable Horoscopes. 


Examples : 


1. Rabindra Nath Tagore : Jupiter at 27-24 Cancer is the 
Atmakaraka planet. In Sun Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti he founded 
Shantiniketan as a result of the strength par excellence of the sub- 
lord Jupiter. The Bhukti of Jupiter in his own Dasa was one of the 
most creative periods of his life. Bhukti of Atmakaraka gave him 
prosperity and not any downfall, poverty or trouble. 


2. Henry Ford : Jupiter at 29-56 Virgo is the Atmakaraka. 
Ford completed his first motor car in 1892 in Jupiter Dasa, Jupi- 
ter Bhukti, which was the starting point for his future prosperity. 
Bhukti of Atmakaraka gave him rise in career. 


3. Aurobindo Ghose : Saturn at 25-02 in Sagittarius is 
the Atmakaraka. In Venus Dasa, Saturn Bhukti, his father died as 
Saturn owns a Maraka place from Pitrukaraka Sun. Aurobindo 
was prosecuted for sedition in Saturn Bhukti of Moon Dasa as 
association of Lagna lord Moon with 8th lord Satur in 6th house 
causes Bandhana Yoga, according to Dr. Raman. Had Saturn 


230 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


not been the Atmakaraka the same result would have occurred. 


4. Pope Pius XII : Venus at 28-33 in Pisces is the 
Atmakaraka. In Saturn Dasa, Venus Bhukti he was made Pope of 
Rome. Bhukti of Atmakaraka elevated him. 


5. Sri Ramana Maharshi : The Moon at 29-58 in Taurus 
is the Atmakaraka. The Moon is with Ketu in 8th from Lagna. 
Death of mother occurred in Ketu Dasa, Moon Bhukti because 
sub-lord Moon being Matrukaraka is badly afflicted by Ketu in 
adverse 8th house. 


6. Benito Mussolini : Jupiter at 27-43 in Gemini in 8th 
from Janma Lagna is Atmakaraka. Mussolini had a violent end. 
Atmakaraka being Bhukti lord cannot be held to be real cause for 
his violent end. Even if some other planet had been his Atmakaraka, 
Jupiter Bhukti in Saturn Dasa would have given the same result. 


The same fact emerges from a study of the horoscopes of Dr. 
Rajendra Prasad, the Nizam of Hyderabad, Adolf Hitler, 
Jawaharlal Nehru, Edward, Duke of Windsor, George VI, Netaji 
Subhas Chandra Bose, Nathuram Binayak Godse, Ramakrishna 
Paramahamsa, Abraham Lincon, Tippu Sultan, Emperor Nero, 
Jesus Christ and Adi Sankaracharya when the Bhukti of 
Atmakaraka did not give a fall. For details of events and horo- 
scopes, readers may refer to Dr. Raman’s Notable Horoscopes. 


7. Rajiv Gandhi : Mercury at 28-33 in Leo Lagna is the 
Atmakaraka. Rahu Dasa Mercury Bhukti (13-11-1989 to 30-05- 
1992), brought him down from the post of Prime Minister to that 
of the leader of opposition in Parliament. In May 1991 in the Lok 
Sabha poll, although his party was returned to power, he was 
brutally assassinated during the election campaign itself. Mercury 
aspected by Saturn was in Peedya and Sushupti Avastha and 
hence it gave such malefic results in his case. 


8. Jyoti Basu : Venus at 28-28 in Cancer in the 12th from 
Lagna (Leo) is the Atmakaraka. Venus is with Mercury. Jupiter 
Dasa, Venus Bhukti (May 1988 to December 1990) proved aus- 
picious for him. During this period he remained in power all 
through. In the assembly elections his Left Alliance returned to 
power and continued as the Chief Minister of West Bengal. Thus 
Bhukti of Atmakaraka gave him fresh mandate to continue in 
power. It did not give him any reversal or misery. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 231 


9. PV. Narasimha Rao : Venus at 27-42 in Aries in the 
8th from Janma Lagna is the Atmakaraka. Bhukti of Venus in Ve- 
nus Dasa (24-3-1954 to 24-7-1957) opened his political career 
when he was elected for the first time as an M.L.A. and was made 
a Minister in the year 1957. Similarly, in Venus Bhukti Sun Dasa 
(24-3-1979 to 24-3-1980) a new political chapter opened in his 
life. When Mrs. Indira Gandhi came to power in January 1980, 
Narasimha Rao was taken into the Central cabinet and continued 
in it holding important portfolios like External Affairs, Defence and 
Human Resources. He worked both under Mrs. Indira Gandhi and 
Rajiv Gandhi from January 1980 to November 19839, that is, till 
Congress was in power. He continued as a Central Minister during 
Venus Bhukti, Moon Dasa (24-1-1988 to 24-9-1989). 


Readers may feel surprised and may ask how Venus in 8th 
from Janma Lagna gave such good results. But we know that 
Venus being 9th-cum-2nd lord is a first rate benefic for Vargottam. 
Venus when aspected by Jupiter becomes all the more auspicious. 
Then, Moon in the 7th and Venus in the 8th from Janma Lagna 
also cause auspicious Adhi Yoga. Venus in 2nd from Moon causes 
Subha Anapha Yoga. Venus aspects his own house 2nd from 
Lagna. The 2nd house also deals with power to rule. For these 
reasons Bhuktis of Venus in Venus and Moon Dasa gave him 
such good results. As Venus is placed in 11th from Sun, Venus 
Bhukti in Sun Dasa gave the best results. It carved out a system- 
atic political career. Through his ability, he became Number 2 in 
Rajiv’s cabinet. This was the reason when Congress came back 
to power again after losing its leader Rajiv Gandhi in tragic cir- 
cumstances, Narasimha Rao was asked to fill in the void. Venus 
Bhukti in last three Dasas of Venus, Sun and Moon has given 
quite auspicious results. Bhukti of Venus everytime has further 
strengthened his position. But as his Venus is in the fag end of the 
Rasi, Venus has also given its good results only in last portion of 
its Bhuktis. Also, it will appear that he has regained power only 
when Congress emerged from some crisis. It is often seen that 
persons having their 9th lord in 8th house have delayed 
rise in career or have an obstructed rise in career and 
also that they emerge more powerful after some crisis 
than otherwise. 


232 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Narasimha Rao had Venus Bhukti Mars Dasa from 18-2- 
1995 to 18-4-1996. His 8th and 3rd lord Mars is fully combust 
and is combined with Lagna and 10th lord Mercury and 12th lord 
Sun. From Lagna point of view Venus Bhukti in Mars Dasa ap- 
pears to be awful. From Chandra Lagna point of view it will bea 
Bhukti of 3rd and 8th lord afflicted by incendiary Ketu in Dasa of 
a combust 2nd and 9th lord afflicted by Sun who is the 6th lord 
from Moon. Ketu, Mars and Sun are incendiary planets. The 9th 
and 5th lords when associated with incendiary planets easily flare 
up the situation. Mr. Rao is running his Sadesati since April 1993. 
In March-April 1996 Saturn will be in Pisces and Ketu will be also 
in Pisces, both in 7th from Lagna, Mars in Aquarius in 6th and 
Jupiter in 10th from Moon. The year 1996 does not augur well for 
Narasimha Rao from an astrological point of view.Criminal pros- 
ecution and political harassment of Mr. Rao followed in suit. 


Dr. B.V. Raman in his Notable Horoscopes has shown at 
several places how Atmakaraka and Amatyakaraka grahas in their 
Dasas give auspicious results. He has not said at any place that 
Bhukti of Atmakaraka gives downfall and troubles. 


The Bhukti of Atmakaraka gave auspicious results including 
rise in career and status in 15 cases out of 29. Rabindra Nath 
Tagore, Henry Ford, Pope Pius X!], Dr. Rajendra Prasad, 
Jawaharlal Nehru, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Ramakrishna 
Paramahamsa, Abraham Lincon, Hyder Ali, Shivaji the Great, 
John Milton, Jesus Christ, Jyoti Basu, Indira Gandhi and 
Narasimha Rao. 


In 5 of the remaining 14 cases, the Bhukti of Atmakaraka 
did not cause any downfall or loss/- Nizam of Hyderabad, Adolf 
Hitler, George VI, Nathu Ram Godse and V.P. Singh. 


Thus in 20 out of 29 cases, i.e., in 70 percent of cases, the 
Bhukti of Atmakaraka totally failed to cause any downfall or loss. 


In 5 of the ramaining 9 cases the Bhukti of Atmakaraka on 
‘one occasion gave rise in life while on other occassions it gave 
downfall to Duke of Windsor, Tippu Sultan, Emperor Nero, Adi 
Sankara and E.M.S. Namboodiripad. On proper scrutiny it was 
found that causes of rise or downfall in all these cases lay else- 
where, i.e., in other astrological factors. lf the Bhukti of 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 233 


Atmakaraka gives different kinds of results in different Dasas or if 
Bhukti of Atmakaraka gives both good and bad results alterna- 
tively in a single Bhukti in a particular Dasa, that does not go to 
prove the point that Bhukti of Atmakaraka will by itself give any 
downfall. Rather, it goes to prove that there are some other astro- 
logical factors beyond shaping the results of Dasa or Bhukti. Had 
Bhukti of Atmakaraka been really the cause of downfall, it must 
have given every time a downfall. 


In the remaining 4 cases, Aurobindo Ghose, Ramana 
Maharshi, Mussolini and Rajiv Gandhi—Bhukti of Atmakaraka 
gave downfall or other bad results. In these 4 cases also, 
Atmakaraka appears to have no real hand behind misfortunes. 
Rather, other astrological factors were responsible for such evil 
results as pointed out while dealing with such cases. Had Bhukti 
of non-Atmakaraka Grahas been on the run under the same as- 
trological conditions as present in the horoscopes of these 4 na- 
tives, the results would have been the same or almost identical. In 
my view it is just incidental or a mere coincidene that involved 
sub-lords, were here, Atmakarakas. Even if we take these 4 cases 
as examples or the validity of the aforesaid rule, we find that the 
percentage of success comes only to 13 percent. If we add the 
figures of 50% success in the preceding 5 cases of this figure of 
13%, then also the total figure of success will come to 13+8=21 
percent. 


Therefore, this is a rule which has completely failed to work 
in 79 percent of cases. The 21 percent of cases where it may be 
claimed to have worked at cursory glance, does not justify the 
validity of such rule even on statistical grounds. If we go in depth 
we find that the real cause for success of the rule in the 21 percent 
of cases is elsewhere, that is, in other relevant astrological fac- 
tors. The presence of Atmakataka in these cases appears to be 
merely incidental. Even if the Bhukti lord in these cases had not 
been the Atmakaraka the same results would have ensued. Under 
such conditions it is difficult for anyone to accept this rule as a 
rule of significance. 


Four more rules on Bhukti phala in Jataka Tattwa are equally 
interesting. They are as follows : 


234 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


(i) Warares YMA set HS Aa: TSA | 
Sutra 37, Chapter V 
During the Dasa of a malefic and in the Bhukti of a benefic 
there will be trouble at first and then good will follow. 
(ii) WTA WUrA TSA! 
Sutra 38, Chapter V 


During the Dasa of a benefic and in the Bhukti of a benefic 
happiness will be experienced. 


(iii) WTA WAT Brat BS At ATA 
Sutra 39, Chapter V 


During the Dasa of a benefic and in the Bhukti of a malefic, 
there will be happiness at first and then fear. 


(iv) FRAT ATA HATTA | 
Sutra 35, Chapter V 


During the Dasa and Bhukti of planets placed in 6-8 to each 
other, there will be great danger and fear to the native. 


[ have tested these rules in cases discussed here and find the 
following results. 


Benefic Bhukti in Benefic Dasa : Out of available 16 
instances it gave quite good results in 13 instances. In 2 instances, 
it gave quite bad results. In one instance it gave first good results. 
In one instance it gave first good result, then bad results. It means, 
benefic Bhukti in benefic Dasa is capable of giving good results 
in 85 percent of cases. 


Malefic Bhukti in Benefic Dasa : Out of 9 instances it 
gave exclusively bad results in 6 instances, but in 3 instances it 
gave exclusively good results. lt means that malefic Bhukti in ben- 
efic Dasa will be giving bad results in 67 percent cases at least. 
Benefic Dasa will not be able to mitigate evils of malefic Bhukti 
lord in full as hinted by Mantreswara elsewhere. 

Benefic Bhukti in Malefic Dasa : Out of 24 instances, 
exclusively good results were experienced in 16 cases. In one in- 
stance it gave first good results and then it gave bad results. It 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 235 


means benefic Bhukti in malefic Dasa will be giving good results 
in at least 70 percent cases. It means that sub-lord has a bigger 
hand in shaping the major lord. 


Malefic Bhukti in Malefic Dasa : As against common 
belief that a malefic Bhukti in malefic Dasa will invariably be 
giving quite bad results, on check-up it was found that out of 7 
instances it gave quite bad results in 4 instances but in 3 instances 
it gave highly auspicious results. It means that malefic Bhukti in 
malefic Dasa will be giving bad results in 57 percent of cases but 
it may also give good results in 43 percent of cases. It so appears 
to my mind that sub-lords dominate over major lords in shaping 
actual Dasaphala. 


Shashtashtaka Relation between Sub-lord and Ma- 
jor-lord : Out of 9 instances bad results were experienced in 7 
. but in 2 instances this relation gave extremely good results. It means 
that 6-8 position gave bad results in 78 percent cases but it also 
gave auspicious results in 22 percent cases. 


| have discussed these four other rules of Jataka Tattwa 
only to show that these rules based on Parasari doctrine are ca- 
pable of giving correct results in 57 to 85 percent of cases, whereas 
the rule of Bhukti of Atmakaraka has failed to work in about 80 
percent cases. 


| know that actual results in astrology are dependent on many 
rules. Also, we know that there is hardly any rule which is capable 
of giving 100 percent correct results. But it will be sheer mistake 
and folly to rely on a rule which is liable to give wrong results in 
about 80 percent cases. 


It will not be out of place to mention here that in 4 cases the 
Bhukti of Atmakaraka caused the death of the natives. In one 
case it caused the death of father and in another case, it caused. 
the death of mother. On examination it was found that Atmakaraka 
and Dasa lords in the above 6 cases had Maraka potentialities 
and, therefore, they caused death to natives or their parents. If 
Atmakaraka owns Maraka houses, or is located in 
Maraka house, is combined with or aspected by some 
other Maraka, is severely afflicted or is badly placed 
and is combust, it may also like other planets, cause 


236 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


death if Bhukti of Atmakaraka coincides with the last 
part of possible longevity for the concerned native; oth- 
erwise it may endanger life but will not cause death. 
dust as Lagna lord under certain circumstances may 
kill a native, Atmakaraka which also rules over other lords like 
Lagna lord may also kill a native. But normally an Atmakaraka 
planet like Lagna lord is supposed to give beneficial results in its 
Dasa or Bhukti. This is the basic rule of Hindu Astrology. The 
Lagna lord, 5th lord, 9th lord, Yogakaraka, Atmakaraka 
and Amatyakaraka are basically six auspicious pillars 
of a horoscope. Even in worst conditions they do some 
positive good to the native. Therefore, there can be no worse 
a rule which generalises that Dasa or Bhukti of any of these in all 
circumstances will be giving inauspicious results like fall from 
position or heavy losses or some great misery. 


Also, on test it is found that Bhukti of a Graha in 
last or first degree of a Rasi or in combustion or even in 
evil house will not always give bad results. If such a 
Graha is otherwise capable of conferring good results it 
must be giving good results in its Bhukti Sub-lords at 
times may not fully obey the restrictions imposed by 
major lord. 


May refer to charts for example are shown hereunder :~ 


Rajiv Gandhi : Born on 20.8.1944 at 7:11 A.M. IST at 72E49, 
18N58. Rasi : Lagna 4s-14-39; Moon 4s- 17-08-52; Jupiter 4s-12-10-35, 
Sun 4s-3-49-03; Venus 4s-18-39-11; Mercury 4s-28-33-52; Saturn 2-14- 
12-24; Mars 5s-1-41; Rahu 3s-4-09; Ketu 9s-04-09; Balance of Venus 
Dasa at birth 14 years, 3 months and 10 days. 


Jyoti Basu : Bom on 6-7-1914 at 10:00 A.M. IST at 22N40, 88E30 
E, Rasi : Sun 2s-22-4-2; Moon 8s-3-40; Mars 4s-23-40; Mercury 2s-27-34 
(R); Jupiter 10s-0-05 (R); Venus 3s-28-28; Saturn 2s-3-10; Rahu 10s-17- 
28; Ketu 4s-17-28; and Lagna 4s-28-20. Balance of Ketu Dasa: 5 years, 
0 months and 27 days. 


V.P. Singh : Born on 25-6-1931 at 7:20 A.M. IST at 25 N27, 81.E 
50. Rasi: Sun 71-06; Moon 188-05; Mars 136-26; Mercury 65-19; Jupiter 
93-41; Venus 50-49; Saturn 269-43; Ketu 168-53;.Rahu 348-53; Lagna 
98-04. Balance of Rahu Dasa : 16 years, 0 months and 24 days at birth. 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 237 


Indira Gandhi : Bom on 19.11.1917 at 23 hrs, 39 min, 16 secs. 
Rasi Sun 7s-1-14-35; Moon 9s-5-57-06; Mars 4s-16-29-16; Mercury 7s- 
13-20-50; Jupiter 1s-15-6-04; Venus 8s-21-07-22; Saturn 3s-21-55; Rahu 
8s-10-39-32; Ketu 2s-10-39-32; Janma Lagna Cancer. Born in Saturn 
Dasa with a balance of 1 year, 9 months and 26 days at birth. 


E.M.S. Namboodiripad : Born on 13.6.1909 at 6:05 A.M. (I.S.T.} 
in South Malabar. Rasi : Sun 1s-29-13; Mercury 2s-1-27; Venus 2s-11-29; 
Jupiter 4s-14-35; Mars 1s-29-13; Satum 11s-28-22; Moon 11s-24-13; Rahu 
1s-24; Ketu 7s-24. Janma Lagna-Taurus. Born in Mercury Dasa with a 
balance of 7 years, 4 months and 14 days at birth. 

PV. Narasimha Rao : Born on 28.6.1921 at 13:00 hrs. in 
Karimnagar. Rasi : Sun 2s-13-16; Jupiter 4s-20-12; Saturn 4s-26-29; Mer- 
cury 2s-27-22; Venus Os-27-42; Mars 2s-13-34; Rahu 6s-0-37; Ketu Os-0- 
37. Janma Lagna 5s-24-23. Moon 11s-10-50. Bom in Saturn Dasa with a 
balance of 8 years, 8 months and 26 days. 


CHAPTER-XXI 


TIMING RESULTS OF GAJA 
KESARI YOGA 


Dr. B.V. Raman in his preface to Three Hundred Impor- 
tant Combinations says : “In respect of certain Yogas the indi- 
cations become effective throughout life while in regard to certain 
other Yogas, the results can happen only during specific periods 
and not always.” Thus, according to Dr. B.V.Raman, Yogas can 
be of either of these two categories. But there are Yogas which - 
possess qualities of both the kinds. It means that they give life- 
long results in some respects while in other respects they give re- 
sults only during specific periods. Gajakesari Yoga is one such 
Yoga that gives both kinds of results. Theoretically, Gajakesari 
Yoga may not be held to be as powerful a Yoga as Raja Yoga, 
Maha Yoga, Maha Bhagya Yoga, Pancha Mahapurusha Yoga, 
Lakshmi Yoga and the like but certainly it is an important Yoga as: 
most of the astrological works begin their discussions on Yogas 
only with Gajakesari Yoga as done by Dr. V.B. Raman in his 
aforesaid work. 


According to Dr. B.V. Raman “If Jupiter is in a Kendra from 
the Moon, the combination goes under the name of Gajakesari.” 
Results are : “It gives many relations. It makes one polite and 
generous, builder of villages or towns, or a magistrate, will have a 
lasting reputation even long after death.” While the nature of the 
native being polite and generous may be a permanent attribute, 
accretion of power or lasting fame may be only during a specific 
period as a result of same action. 


Discussing the results of Dasa, Ramanujacharya in his 
Bhavartha Ratnakara savs : 


wWeqee, aaeeit a-arat fayrye: 1 
aden erat Awarae wea 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 239 


It means, when Jupiter and the Moon join together or they 
aspect each other, the Moon Dasa will prove highly prosperous, 
while Jupiter Dasa will be medium or ordinary. This seems to be 
based on a postulate that Jupiter is to produce only ordinary re- 
sults in its Dasa when connected with the Moon, Mars or Saturn 
while the Moon, Mars or Saturn joining or connected with Jupiter 
will be giving highly benefic results in their Dasas. It so appears to 
may mind that other Grahas when connected with Jupiter par- 
take of the benficence of Jupiter to a great extent and make Jupi- 
ter incapable of giving highly benefic results though they cannot 
stop Jupiter giving its normal beneficial results. In a nut-shell, Ju- 
piter will be giving moderately good results in its Dasa while Dasas 
of the Moon, Mars or Saturn under such conditions may give 
highly benefic results. 


On the other hand, there are some astrologers who hold the 
view that Jupiter being the last natural benefic, most benefic re- 
sults of Gajakesari Yoga can accrue only in Jupiter Dasa and 
Moon Dasa may give ordinary results. 


Dr. B.V. Raman in this regard, however, holds quite a reason- 
able and balanced view in his comments in Bhavartha Ratnakara. 
According to him, the Dasa of Jupiter will be ordinary unless Jupi- 
ter becomes a Yoga-karaka or is in exaltation or placed in the Lagna 
or the 2nd or the 9th or the 10th or the 11th house. It means that 
Dasa of Jupiter in such conditions may also give highly beneficial 
results. Further, Dr. B.V. Raman holds that Bhuktis of the Moon, 
Mars or Saturn in Jupiter Dasa may give highly fortunate results if 
they are combined with or connected with Jupiter. 


In his Three Hundred Important Combinations, Dr. 
B.V. Raman has given some more guidelines to test the strength 
of a Yoga. According to these guidelines, the Moon is a benefic 
for Cancer, Pisces and Scorpio Lagnas as lord of the Ist, 5th and 
9th houses. The Moon is neutral as the lord of the 2nd, 12th and 
8th houses for Gemini, Leo and Sagittarius Lagnas. The Moon, 
however, is a malefic as lord of the 3rd, 6th, 11th, 4th, 7th and 
10th for Taurus, Aquarius, Virgo, Aries, Capricorn and Libra 
Lagnas. Similar’), Jupiter is a benefic as lord of the 2nd and the 
5th house for Cancer Lagna, as lord of 6th and 9th house for 


240 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


Scorpio Lagna, as lord of 6th and 9th house for Cancer Lagna 
and as 9th and 12th lord for Aries Lagna. Jupiter is neutral as 
lord of the 1st and 4th houses for Sagittarius Lagna, as lord of 1st 
and 10th houses for Pisces Lagna and as 5th and &th lord for Leo 
Lagna. Jupiter, however, is a malefic as lord of the 2nd and 11th 
for Aquarius Lagna, as lord of the 3rd and 6th for Libra, as lord 
of the 3rd and 12th for Capricorn Lagna, as lord of the 4th and 
the 7th for Virgo Lagna, as lord of the 7th and the 10th for Gemini 
Lagna and as lord of the 8th and 11th for Taurus Lagna. In other 
words, functional benefic, malefic and neutral nature of Grahas 
has also to be given proper weightage. Besides, inherent ‘and 
residental strengths of Grahas have also to be taken into account. 
Associating and aspecting Grahas, signs occupied by the Moon 
and Jupiter may also influence the results to a great extent. 

This reminds us of some more Parasari guidelines which are 
as follows : 

(i) The Dasa of the 9th or the 10th lord or any Graha combined 

with the 5th lord will give auspicious results. 
(ii) The Dasa of the 10th or the 4th lord combined with the 9th 

lord will be quite auspicious. 


{iii) The Dasa of the 6th or the 8th or the 12th lords, if 
combined with a trinal lord, may also give auspi- 
cious results. 


{iv} The Dasa of Grahas aspected by the lord of a Kendra or a 
trine may also be auspicious. 

(v) The Dasa of the 3rd, the 6th or the 11th lord or Grahas asso- 
ciaied with them may give inauspicious results. 

(vi) The Dasas of Grahas associated with the 2nd or the 7th lord 


in the 2nd or the 7th house or of Grahas in the 8th house 


may give inauspicious resulis. 


The Sum and substance of disci'ssion is that Dasa CY Bhuktis 
of Yogada Grahas such as those of the Moon and gitipiter, in case 
of Gajakesari Yoga, will be determined by several fae tors. 

Whether the Dasa of the Moon or the Dasa of Jen, iter will 
give the most beneficial results depends to a great extent. the 
Dasa at birth. Persons must be born in appropriate Dasa toa vail 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 241 


of specific results possible in either of the Dasas of the Moon or 
Jupiter. Let us examine the issue on hand through some examples. 
Planetary positions of cases discussed here are given in the foot- 
note at the end of this article. 


1. Aurangazeb : Aurangazeb was born in Aquarius Lagna. 
Both Jupiter and the Moon were functional malefics for him. Ju- 
piter in Lagna in Aquarius sign on getting aspected by Lagna lord 
Saturn and 10th lord Mars turned out to be quite beneficial for 
him. Jupiter in Lagna has Digbala. Jupiter in Aquarius, Cancer 
or Leo give indentically good results according to Satyacharya 
and Varahamihira. The aspect of Lagna lord Saturn and 10th 
lord Mars on Jupiter add further beneficience to his Jupiter. As 
regards the Moon, it has also acquired beneficence as it is exalted 
in sign, is placed in Kendra, is combined with auspicious Lagna 
lord Saturn. Jupiter in Lagna and the Moon in the 4th house have 
caused Gajakesari Yoga. As the Moon Dasa ran between his 3rd 
and 12th years, they gave him ordinary results but Jupiter Dasa 
gave him the most beneficial results. In Jupiter Dasa Jupiter Bhukti 
Aurangazeb usurped power from his father. He crowned himself 
Emperor in Saturn Bhukti, Jupiter Dasa. 


2. Chittaranjan Das : Born in Scorpio Lagna, he had the 
Moon in Pisces and Jupiter Rahu in Gemini. He had Gajakesari 
Yoga. For Scorpio Lagna, both the Moon and Jupiter are func- 
tional benefics. The Moon is strong in Pakshabala. It is placed in 
the 5th in a sign owned by Jupiter. The Moon is aspected by 
Lagna lord Mars. On the other hand, Jupiter is considerably weak- 
ened because it is heavily afflicted by its position in the 8th in an 
inimical sign where it is combined with Rahu and aspected by 
malefic Saturn. C.R. Das was born in Saturn Dasa and as such 
Jupiter Dasa was not possible in his case. It was only in Moon 
Dasa Mars Bhukti that he became the President of the Congress. 
It was only after the Moon Dasa started that Swarajya Party un- 
der the leadership of C.R. Das contested the elections and cap- 
tured the majority of seats. But as Jupiter owned a Maraka house 
and was badly afflicted in the 8th house, the Bhukti of Jupiter in 
Moon Dasa caused his death untimely. 


3. Albert Einstein : Born in Gemini Lagna, he had de- 


242 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


bilitated Moon in the 6th house and Jupiter in the 9th house in 
Aquarius. Jupiter is a functional malefic for Gemini Lagna. Place- 
ment of Jupiter in the 9th house in Aquarius is as such auspi- 
cious. The Moon is a functional neutral. Its placement in the 6th 
house in a debilitated sign has made it inauspicious. Einstein 
was born in Mercury Dasa. It was in Moon Dasa, Mars Bhukti 
that Einstein received international recognition when he was made 
a Nobel Laureate. He died as soon as Jupiter Dasa began be- 
cause Jupiter is also a Maraka for Gemini Lagna. 


4. Dr. Rajendra Prasad : Born in Sagittarius Lagna, he 
had jupiter in the 9th and an exalted Moon in the 6th house. As 
he was born in the Dasa of Mars, Dasa of Moon was not possible 
in his life. His Jupiter in the 9th in Leo was quite strong but as it 
was aspected by Saturn, it denoted hindrances as well. Jupiter 
Dasa was between 1908 and.1926. His legal career was built up 
in Jupiter Dasa. He became one of the leading legal practiticners 
of India in those days. But he left his practice in 1920 and joined 
the freedom struggle in Jupiter Dasa, Moon Bhukti. Jupiter Dasa 
gave him money, name, fame and respect, all these being the 
blessings of Gajakesari Yoga. The 8th lordship of the Moon may 
have been responsible for his giving up legal practice in the Moon 
Bhukti but as the Moon is exalted in sign, strong in Pakshabala 
and aspected for 5th lord makes, it ushered in a new phase in his 
life which after about 30 years made him the first President of the 
Republic of India. 


5. Adolf Hitler : Born in Libra Lagna, he had Moon- 
Jupiter-Ketu in the 3rd house. Both Jupiter and Moon are func- 
tional malefics for Libra Lagna but their placement in a benefic 
sign owned by Jupiter has improved the position. It was in 1914 
Rahu Bhukti, Moon Dasa that Hitler enlisted himself in the Ba- 
varian Army. It was in Rahu Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti that Hitler was 
appointed as Chancellor of Germany, but it was at the fag end of 
Moon Bhukti in Rahu Dasa that Hitler died after fall from power. 


6. Dr. B.V. Raman : Born in Aquarius Lagna, he has 
Moon-Saturn in 4th house and Jupiter in 10th house. He has 
Gajakesari Yoga. Both the Moon and Jupiter are functional 
malefics for Aquarius Lagna. But as the Moon is exalted and com- 


Advanced Study of Vimshoitari Dasha 243 


bined with Lagna lord Saturn in Kendra and also aspected by 
benefic Jupiter, it can be said that the Moon has become benefi- 
cial to a great extent. Similarly, Jupiter in a friendly sign in a 
Kendra house aspected by Lagna lord Saturn, 10th lord Mars and 
6th lord Moon indicate that Dasa of Jupiter may not be a very 
smooth one but Bhuktis of Saturn, the Moon and Mars in Jupiter 
Dasa must have given him quite fortunate results. It is true that an 
era of grand success began in his life in Saturn and Mercury Dasas. 
But it cannot be denied that Jupiter placed in the 10th in mystical 
Scorpio and its dispositor Mars in the 7th aspecting Jupiter in the 
10th actually determined the final shape of his carrer as an as- 
trologer of international fame. It was Jupiter Dasa that really built 
his career which was consolidated and expanded in Saturn and 
Mercury Dasas. 


7. Scribe : Born in Leo Lagna, the scribe has Moon-Ketu- 
Jupiter combine in Lagna. He has Gajakesari Yoga. But also he 
has Parijata Yoga in this way : The Lagna lord Sun is in Gemini 
whose lord Mercury is in Cancer whose lord Moon is placed in 
Lagna. As such, the Moon will give him the results of not only 
Gajakesari Yoga but also of Parijata Yoga. Further, association of | : 
5th lord Jupiter with other Grahas is also capable of making the 
Dasa of such Grahas beneficial. The Dasa of the Moon elevated 
the status and position of the scribe. The Bhuktis of the Moon, 
Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Venus and Sun gave quite good results. Ju- 
piter Dasa began this year and is likely to give no better than 
ordinary results, according to Bhavartha Ratnakara. Maha 
Dasa of Jupiter has conferred upon him two literay awards. He is 
established as an author of 28 eminent books of astrology. 


8. An Unemployed Youth : Born in Capricorn Lagna, 
he has Moon in Aquarius and Jupiter in Leo. He has thus 
Gajakesari Yoga. For Capricorn Lagna, both Jupiter and the Moon 
are functional malefics. As the native was born in the Dasa of 
Mars, the Dasa of the Moon is not possible for him. His running 
Jupiter Dasa is alone capable of giving him the results of 
Gajakesari Yoga. Indirectly, Jupiter will also be giving the results 
of Parijata Yoga in its Dasa in this way : The ascendant lord 
Satum is in Pisces whose lord Jupiter is in Leo whose lord the 
Sun is exalted and in a Kendra. Jupiter in the 8th is a big hurdle 


244 Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


no doubt but Bhuktis of exalted Venus, exalted Sun, the Moon in 
the 2nd and Mars in own sign in the 4th in Jupiter Dasa must give 
favourable results as far as avenues of employment are concerned. 
It gave him mediocre results. 


9. A Retired Officer : Bom in Aquarius Lagna, the native 
has Saturn in Lagna causing Sasa Yoga. He has the Moon, Mer- 
cury and Venus in 4th in Taurus and retrograde Jupiter in Scorpio. 
He has Gajakesari Yoga. Both the Moon and Jupiter are func- 
tional malefics for Aquarius Lagna. The Moon is weak in 
Pakshabala but has Digbala in the 4th house. It is exalted also. The 
Moon is combined with Yogakaraka Venus and Mercury and 
aspected by Jupiter. Thus the maleficience of the Moon is undone 
to a great extent and it becomes capable of giving benefic results in 
its Dasa or Bhukti. Jupiter is in a Kendra from Lagna. Aspects of 
Saturn as Lagna lord and of benefics Venus and Mercury on Jupi- 
ter, have undone or minimised the functional maleficience of Jupi- 
ter to a great extent and have made Jupiter benefic oriented so that 
it may be able to give beneficial results in its Dasa or Bhukti. 


As the native was born in Moon Dasa, it was obvious that 
results of Gajakesari Yoga such as good name and fame, high 
position etc, would accrue mainly in Jupiter Dasa who is strong 
because of his retrogression. In Jupiter Dasa the native experi- 
enced immense prosperity including honours in foreign country. 
In Jupiter Dasa Moon Bhukti, the native further built a fine house 
of his own as his Moon joined the 4th lord Venus in the 4th house 
itself which stands for houses and buildings. The native admitted 
that he was able to establish himself well in his life and in his job 
mainly in Jupiter Dasa. 


10. Biju Patnayak : Born in Taurus Lagna, both Jupiter 
and the Moon are functional malefics for him. Jupiter is placed in 
own sign in the house of gains and is aspected by the most pow- 
erful Yogakaraka Saturn who is placed in the houe of wealth. 
Thus, Jupiter has become quite beneficial for him. As the Moon 
combines with Jupiter and is aspected by Yogakaraka Saturn, his 
Moon, though weak in Pakshabala, has been made beneficial. 
He has a fine Gajakesari Yoga. Jupiter-Moon combine in his case 
has further caused Neechabhanga Rajayoga by cancelling 


Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 245 


deblitation of Mars. 


As Biju Patnayak was born in Saturn Dasa, it was obvious 
that he would be experiecing the good results of Gajakesari Yoga 
only in the Dasa of the Moon. The Dasa of the Moon (September 
1983 to September 1993) made him the Chief Minister of Orissa 
in Mercury Bhukti. It so appears that the 5th lord Mercury in the 
9th from Lagna and in the 11th from the Moon gave such excel- 
lent results. Biju remained in power for the full term and came out 
of office only in Mars Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti. In this case Moon 
Dasa has proved beneficial. Mars is a powerful Maraka for him. 
Mars is afflicted by Ketu. The aspect of 8th lord Jupiter on Mars is 
also not so favourable. Though Yogakaraka, Saturn in the 2nd 
from the Lagna or in the 4th from the Moon and the 12th from 
Mars and the Sun in Aquarius aspected by Mars do not augur 
well for his life and safety. The first leg of current Sadesati has 
ousted him from power. Let us see if he is able to cross the re- 
maining 4 to 5 years of Sadesati and the Dasa of powerful Maraka 
lord Mars. He is since dead. 


Conclusion : In 5 out of 10 cases discussed here, the Dasa 
of the Moon has given the main results of Gajakesari Yoga whereas 
in the remaining 5 cases Jupiter Dasa gave such results. Results 
of Gajakesari Yoga rarely fail. Whether beneficial results of this 
Yoga will be experienced in the Dasa of the Moon or of Jupiter 
will depend largely on the following factors : 

1. Which of the two Dasas will fall first between the 21st and 
65th years. Dasa falling first will give the best result while Dasa 
coming late may give just ordinary results. 

2. Other important points discussed earlier have also to be 
kept in mind. ; 


Horoscopic Data: 


1. Aurangazeb : Rasi : Sun 203-50; Moon 35-14; Mars 144; Mer- 
cury 199; Jupiter 310; Venus 259; Saturn 48; Rahu 280; Ketu 100; and 
Lagna 313-45. Bom 3.11.1618 A.D. with a balance of 2 years, 1 month 
and 29 days of Sun Dasa. 

2. Chittaranjan Das : Rasi : Sun 201-48, Moon 345-47; Mars 
133-14; Mercury 191-08; Jupiter 65-36; Venus 193-36; Saturn 245-01, 
Rahu 82-35; Ketu 262-35; and Lagna 210-13. Born 15.11.1870 witha 


246 ° Advanced Study of Vimshottari Dasha 


balance of 1 year, 3 months and 4 days of Saturn Dasa. 


3. Albert Einstein : Rasi : Sun 332-46; Moon 233-48; Mars 276- 
12; Mercury 342-25; Jupiter 306-44; Venus 356-16; Saturn 33-28; Rahu 
280-46; Ketu 100-46; and Lagna 81-47. Born 14.3.1879 with a balance 
of 7 years, 10 months and 26 days of Mercury Dasa. 


4. Dr. Rajendra Prasad : Rasi : Sun 230-47; Moon 55-28; Mars 
247-30; Mercury 246-07; Jupiter 134-33; Venus 194-35; Saturn 60-42 
(R); Rahu 170; Ketu 350; and Lagna 260-10. Born 3.12.1884 with a 
balance of 5 years, 10 months and 17 days of Mars Dasa. 


5. Adolf Hitler : Rasi : Sun 9-56; Moon 256-46; Mars 25-31; 
Mercury 4-48; Jupiter 257-23; Venus 25-50; Saturn 112; Rahu 85; Ketu 
265; and Lagna 180-54. Born 20.4.1889 with a balance of 16 years, 4 
months and 6 days of Venus Dasa. 


6. Dr. B.V. Raman : Rasi : Sun 113; Moon 56-38; Mars 141-23, 
Mercury 134; Jupiter 223; Venus 122; Saturn 40-11; Rahu 352-49; Ketu 
172-49; and Lagna 308-16. Born 8.8.1912 A.D. with a balance of 6 
years, 10 months and 3 days of Mars Dasa. 


7. Scribe : Rasi : Sun 74-31; Moon 131-40; Mars 153-55; Mercury 
99-16; Jupiter 145-08; Venus 92-31; Saturn 294-05 (R); Rahu 310; Ketu 
130; and Lagna 124. Born 28.6.1933 with a balance of 10 months and 
15 days of Ketu Dasa. 


8. An Unemployed Youth : Rasi : Sun 8-21; Moon 302-52; Mars 
24-40; Mercury 4-50; Jupiter 122-25 (R); Venus 352-30; Saturn 354-03; 
Rahu 355-11; Ketu 175-11; and Lagna 290. Born 22.4.1968 with a bal- 
ance of 2 years of Mars Dasa. 

9. A Retired Officer : Rasi : Jupiter 235-48; Venus 59-50; Mars 
61-40; Mercury 43-35; Jupiter 235-48; Venus 59-50; Saturn 329-20; Rahu 
251; Ketu 71; and Lagna 329-40. Born 17.6.1936 with a balance of 6 
years, 4 months and 4 days of Moon Dasa. 

10. Biju Patnayak : Rasi : Sun 321-42; Moon 334-14; Mars 109- 
17 (R); Mercury 294-50; Venus 1-50; Jupiter 342-20; Saturn 76-53 (R); 
Rahu 283-27; Ketu 103-27; and Lagna 31-00. Born 5.3.1916 with a bal- 
ance of 17 years, 5 months and 28 days of Saturn Dasa. 


