Advance Medical 
ASTROLOGY 


Dr. S.S. Chatterjee 


DEDICATION 


ord Ganesh is Siddhidata (bestower of 

success in life). In 2001, to the surprise of 

thousands of devotees across the globe, he 
drank milk from their hands between 4 AM to 6 PM 
IST. In 2006, HE repeated his supernatural acts to 
selected numbers of devotees. There is no scientific 
explanation; how an idol made of clay/brass/or other 
metals can drink milk. The author like, most of the 
Americans'\(USA has printed on their dollars we 
trust in God) and Indians believe God exists. 
Therefore this book is dedicated at the lotus feet of 
GANAPATI, May God Ganesh grant success to all 
the readers of this book. 


Dr. S.S. Chatterjee 
(Author) 


ABOUT THE BOOK 


S.S. Chatterjee has written this pres »nt book 
with latest scientific touch. We can easily 
overcome many dangerous diseases using proper 
diet, herbs, fruits and vegetables and through yoga 
techniques. Foods harm and the same foods heal. 
Leucoderma, skin diseases, aids, cancer, plague, 
stomach ulcers, going astray through drug 
addiction, piles, constipation, cholera, malaria, 
beriberi, dengue etc occur for using wrong food 
habits and unawareness about the climatic impact on 
health and diseases. Physical strength of body and 
mind is the indispensable factor for carrying out 
one's duties and the acquisition of knowledge, 
wealth, and happiness. Health is wealth. By eating 
large quantities of multi-coloured fruits 
(antioxidants), vegetables, fish, meat, diary 
products one can live upto 80 yrs without visiting 
hospitals. Complicated diseases such as lunacy, 
schizophrenia, asthma, thalassaemia, heart diseases, 
impotency, anaemia, migraine, severe back pain, 
epilepsy, diabetes, amputation of limbs etc occur 
. due to our past sins of the previous life. According to 
our sages SFA pay ay Soy aa Gl titer 
aesatiosty saree: 


> 1! Meaning sins of past 


if order to restore the lost glory of asirology, Dr. 


lives bother us in the form of diseases, which can be ameliorated by 
medicines, donations, Japa and Homa: The seven essential ingredients 
of the body are : blood, marrow, flesh, bone, semen, sinews and fat are 
actually controlled by the seven planets. Man has been said to be an 
"Epitome of the Universe", Minutest principles of Sun, Stars and 
planets in the solar system are in him in a fixed proportion. Robust 
health results in their equilibrium. When the harmony is disturbed by 
the shghtest change in the proportion of the innumerable elements, 
diseases result. Rays emanating from the various planets have been 
found producing different vitamins necessary for the healthy growth of 
living beings. The author has tested the thousands of golden subtle 
rules framed by our seers in real life. He has explained the mechanisms 
of complicated diseases with the golden rules of astrology and modern 
scientific outlook. The author has put much stress on remedial 
measures. This book is an encyclopedia of information for maintaining 
an excellent health even in adverse circumstances. Infant mortality can 
never be eliminated, because longevity is controlled by God. Those 
who have benefics in angles and malefic in 3/1 1 ™ house live Jong. This 
book is profusely illustrated with 100 practical examples Dr. 
Chatterjee's book contain some currents, which forces the readers to 
read his books thoroughly. This book should be preserved in each 
library and in each individual house of India and abroad. It has been 
tailored using multi-disciplinary knowledge and will be useful to each 
and every body. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


r. S.S. Chatterjee, now 64, is a noted 

authority on Vedic astrology and a prolific 

writer in predictive astrology. Basically a 
scientist (holds a Ph.D degree from Banaras Hindu 
University in Electro-Chemistry, 1968, with 
postdoctoral research experience in USA and 
Germany) started reading astrology from the late 
seventies. He took formal training in astrology from 
Indian Institute of Astrology, Kolkata for 3 years as a 
regular student. In the quest of astrological research 
he took voluntary retirement in Oct, 1997 from 
PDIL, NOIDA (a Govt. of India undertaking firm) 
where he worked as an executive engineer for 29 
years. On the invitation of American Federation of 
Astrology, USA. He delivered invaluable and 
noteworthy lectures in astrology and palmistry in 
Orlando, Florida in July 1990 and was highly 
applauded and praised by the internationally famous 
astrologers of the world. He visited USA Germany, 
for 7 years as a postdoctoral fellow in corrosion 
engineering. He has produced Ph.Ds and published } 
about 100scientific articles in the field of Chemistry 
and Metallurgy. He has also written about 200 
articles in Astrology with scientific outlook. One of 
his outstanding articles, "Dasa Period of Planets in 


Mutual Angles" Published in Aug-Sep. 1997 issues of The Times of 
Astrology brought him the glory in the form of Ist Shri Santhanam 
Award in May, 1998. Dr. Chatterjee, is proud to examine the 
horoscopes of about half million persons from various parts of this 
globe and he has helped at least 100 persons to become crorepati. Gems 
and other astro-solutions suggested by him worked as a miracle for 
removing the sufferings of human beings in 1-6 months. His accurate 
forecasts amazes everyone, whoever comes across him. He has also 
authored other seven books, Cosmic, influences on Mind and IQ 
(1992) Advanced Predictive Astrology, Volume 1, (1999), Vol. 2 
(2000), Fortune and Finance (2002), Astrology Applied (2004), 
Astrology Nectar (2005). Twin 8* Houses of the Zodiac (in press) His 
books as well as write-ups are not only authentic but also give many 
thought provoking clues to the judgments of horoscopes. 


PREFACE 


lhe purpose of astrology is to enable man to 

lead a long healthy and happy life. Physical 

and mental strength is the indispensable 
factor for carrying out one's duties and the 
acquisition of knowledge, wealth and happiness. 4" 
house of the zodiac, represents our happiness. 
When 4* house /4th lord and significator of happiness 
Jupiter, signiificator of success Sun, significtor of 
Mind (Moon) are strong one enjoys life immensely. 
The lagna and its lord should be aspected by benefic. 
When the ascendant or the Moon is devoid of 
benefic aspects, all the Raja Yogas does not 
materialize. Strong Jupiter, Venus, well associated 
Mercury, waxing Moon cause pleasure, happiness, 
success and Good health, elevation of financial 
success and achievements. Quadrants are the pillars 
of the horoscope. A benefic planet in the 9" house or 
an unaffiliated benefic planet in the 10n house 
forming Amala Yoga, helps the person to climb at 
zenith in life. It is not no possible to achieve 
financial solvency throughout life without a Raja 
Yoga (a relationship between trine and quadrant 
lords). Benefic and strong planets in the quadrants 
(1,4,7,10) and the trines (1,5,9) from the ascendant, 
strengthen it. Strong malefics (Rahu, Ketu, Sun, 


Satum and Mars) in these houses cause the Ascendant to decay or 
suffer loss of strength, and therefore, loss of health. The presence of 
many favourable yogas such as Pancha Mahaplush Yoga, Gajakeshri 
Yoga, Vasumati Yoga, Maha Yogas, Mudrika Yoga and Raja Yogas add 
to the general strength of the horoscope, and therefore promotes good 
health. Strong Moon, Sun and Ascendant offer terrible resistances 
against onset of an illness. An ascendant can be said to be strong when it 
is aspected by its own lord, Venus, Jupiter, Mercury or full Moon. 
Overall body is controlled from the Ascendant and its lord. Its strength 
or weakness has a major say in pointing to good health and therefore, 
absence of disease of a serious nature or sickness or ill health. Diseases, 
bad habits and wounds (ulcers, sores, boils etc) of a person may suffer 
from one to be understood from the 6* house and Mars. Author has 
always tested the subtle golden rules of the sages in real life. He was 
astonished to discover that all the dumb persons are unfortunate 
persons. They do not have any mentionable Raja Yogas with weak 9* 
honse/ 9" lord. So it is established beyond doubt that diseases occur in 
the body as per wishes of God, for his/her past sins. It should be kept in 
mind that astrology offers an insight into the meaning and purpose of 
life and its predictable pattern of events and destiny. God controls us 
from heaven through a remote control procedure (see exp. 84) Epilepsy 
is such a diseases, for which there is no answer from the well qualified 
doctors (or physicians) AIDS, heart diseases, cancer, liver diseases 
occur in the body without any pre signals. The book has been tailored 
with diversified knowledge for the benefit of mankind. The horoscope 
of a person is believed to be the balance carried forward into the life 
from the previous birth. In other words previous existence is believed 
to be the cause and effect of the present life, which unfolds, slowly but 
steadily making sure that no one escapes the universal law of Karma, 
Generally the 5" house is referred on the Poorva Punya Sthan or house 
pertaining to the merit one has accumulated in the previous life. 
Maharshi Parasar says that while the 5in stands for amulets, sacred 
spells, learning, knowledge, success and royally, it also represents the 
fall from position.. Therefore when 5"/1 1" axis is afflicted, serious 


diseases crop in. The 9n house stands for origin or father and future. If 
the S” house represents our previous existence, the 9” from it, namely 
the ascendant shows our present existence. If the 5" and 9” houses are 
not rendered strong, the horoscope is considerably weakened. The 
native in whose horoscope these houses are afflicted is likely to drift in 
this life helplessly pulled by the currents of destiny. In any horoscope 
the lords of 5"/9" should not make 6/8 or 2/12 relationships and also 
should not be in 6/8 positions from the lord of ascendant for a glorious 
life. In carving an illustrious life, the lords of Kendra (Quadrants) and 
Trikona (trines) play a vital and decisive role. The strength of such 
planets are overwhelming. The truth and validity of Raja Yogas stated 
by sage Parasara is indeed praise worthy. 


There are 5 chapters in this book. Chapter 1 records the history of 
development of medical science between 1300 AD to 2007 AD. Our 
moder medical science is only 100 yrs old. Structural formulae of 
important life saving drugs have been included in this chapter. Toilets 
can save 1.8, million kids annually who die of diarrohea. Influenza can 
be controlled through proper vaccine. Extreme low levels of lead 
reduces IQ and attention span, reading and leaming disabilities, 
hearing loss and a range of other health and behavioural effects. On the 
other hand high levels of lead causes mental retardation, convulsions 
and death. Entire India is suffering form the risk of arsenic 
contamination of the ground water. Fortunately methods are available 
for the removal of arsenic using magnate. Earth may be a watery planet 
but 97%of its water is in oceans. Most of the remainder is locked in 
Antarctic ice caps or deep underground leaving less than.1% available 
for human use in fresh water lakes and river. Pollution free air, pure 
drinking water and distress free mind are the essential ingredients for a 
disease free life. Govt. of India should try to provide pure drinking 
water to public free from arsenic and lead using latest nanotechnology. 
Chapter 2 deals with the identification of diseases before its actual 
occurrence using the about 250 golden subtle astrological rules framed 
by sages of yore. Diabetes Mellitus has been discussed in detail in this 
chapter. Chapter 3 is devoted for the eradication of diseases using 


natural fruits, vegetables, herbs, homoeopathy drugs, yoga, pranayam 
and through spiritual powers. Role of body, mind and soul in diseases 
has to be assessed properly. Strong Moon and strong Sun help to lead a 
glorious life in one's mundane journey. Role of vitamins and endocrine 
glands in controlling our health and diseases have been discussed in 
detail. As per sages diseases occur in the body for the sins committed in 
the past lives. Epilepsy, AIDS, lunacy, schizophrenia, anaemia, 
migraine, crushing of bones, loss of limbs, deafness, dumbness, 
blindness, thalassaemia, blood cancer etc occur in our body as per the 
statement of seers of yore. Longevity has been discussed in chapter 4. 
However developed may be our medical science, infant mortality can 
never be conquered. One enjoys a full length of life when the 
quadrants/trines are occupied by natural benefics (unblemished Moon, 
Venus, Jupiter and Mercury) and a malefic (Rahu, Ketu, Mars, Saturn, 
Sun) occupies either 3“/or 11" house. Seven practical examples will 
justify the claim of the author. The author has examined thousands of 
horoscopes and was actually astonished to observe the accuracy of the 
subtle astrological rules framed by the sages of yore. All individual 
diseases with appropriate remedial measures have been discussed in 
details in chapter 5S. Scientific and astrological concepts of each 
disease have been provided with suitable practical examples from the 
research diary of the learned author. Descriptions of AIDS, cancer, ear 
and eye diseases, fracture of bones and bone diseases, lunacy, 
schizophrenia, psoriasis, coronary heart diseases, congenial cataracts, 
kidney/gall stones, jaundice, operation yogas, arthritis, epilepsy, 
thalassaemia, severe back pain, migraine, anaemia, epilepsy, drug 
addition, obesity, constipation have been discussed in detail. The 
healthy conditions of the body is indisputably the primary requisite for 
success in all affairs mundane and spiritual. How, why and when 
diseases are caused and how they could be prevented or cured were the 
subjects of deep study of our ancient sages, who by their unparalleled 
powers of observation, experimentation and intuition have left to their 
posterity the two invaluable sciences of Astrology and Ayurveda. 
Forewamed is forearmed. The author believes this book will help the 


young astrologers to identify diseases long before their occurrence, 
thus natives will try to find ways to defend themselves before soaking 
in the oceans of unpleasantness. This book is very brilliant, very 
stimulating, is a sumptuous. meal that will whet the appetites of 
millions of common man and astrologers for maintaining an excellent 
health without medicines. It is profusely illustrated with 100 practical 
horoscopes, which should help the practicing astrologers to predict 
accurately in view of the latent principles of health and diseases coined 
by him most scientifically. Mechanisms of ageless living have been 
provided by the author. It should be preserved in all the libraries of the 
world and should also find a place in each house in India/Abroad. This 
book has been tailored using multi-disciplinary knowledge for the 
benefit of mankind. 


The author expresses gratitude to the editors of Astrological Magazine, 
Banglore, Planets and Forecast, Cuttack, Times of Astrology, Delhi, 
for, providing much data for this book. He expresses tiianks to his 
student Shareejan Sharma, an executive engineer of NTPC for helping 
in preparing the manuscript. Any suggestion for the improvement of 
this book will be welcome by the author with stretched hands. The 
author expresses his deep gratitude to Dharmendra Sharma, 
Rave Publication , Sumerpur (Raj,) for agreeing to publish this book 


1* December 2006. 
Noida 
Dr. S. S. Chatterjee 


fter the Bib Bang, new universe was 

created and after many evolution, 
odulation through nature animate and 

inanimate objects started dominating our mother 
earth. According to the Jaw of nature every living 
being is mortal, even the inanimate objects have 
their mortality through natural depreciation. So 
there has the necessity of healing process, because 
every living being wants to live more and more. 
Even animals, insets find their own way to shake off 
their physical disorders. They procure healing 
ingradients through nature and their instinct. Human 
beings who are the most intelligent of the species 
have discovered healing methods and their own, and 
from ancient upto the present age have presented the 
universe with numerous ingradients which are 
termed as "Medicine" to remove illness from their 
bodies. From the time of the ancient Greeks, 
different kinds of medicines are used by people to 
preserve good health. Our jungle ancestors mostly 
used herbs to cure themselves from illness. After 
many progressive methods for decades, centuries 
the present medicines have taken their shape, 
entered in the global market. At present there are 
different kinds of processed medicines-Allopathy, 


homeopathy, herbal, also naturopathy (mental healing). Doctors are 
burning their midnight oil to find newand novel medicinal properties to 
cure the most acute disease from the ancient era. Astrology plays a vital 
role to guide people to live a healthy and disease free life. Doctors can 
treat a person when a person becomes ill, but an astrologer, has a greater 
role to play. An experienced astrologer can predict the future illness of a 
person, as soon as a native is born the life and take care beforehand. So 
far the utmost benefit of the 21st century people far and wide, I am 
presenting a book on Medical Astrology by Dr. S.S. Chatterjee, who is a 
foreign returned scientist in chemistry and also a great astrologer of the 
century. His book, "Advance Medical Astrology" is a vital guide for all 
as how to live with a sound body and mind. In this invaluable book there 
are food therapy, aroma therapy, colour therapy, herbal cure through 
homoeopathy, cure through gems etc according to the planetary 
position of the native concerned. The advance student of astrology will 
also find this book very useful in boosting their knowledge bank. This 
book should be purchased and preserved as an asset for the future 
generations. 


Acharya Chetan Sharma 
Chief Editor, "Jyotish Suman" 
Astrological Magazine 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER1: HISTORY OF DEVELOPMENT OF MEDICALSCIENCE [20-38] 


CHAPTER 2: 


CHAPTER 3 : 


Inventions of Life Saving Drugs 


SECRETS OF PROGNOSTICATION OF DISEASE 
Example 1. Story of a diabetic patient. 

Example 2. An example of good health. 

Zodiac signs and body parts. 

Role of house. 

Planets and Organs. 

Planets and Ailments. 

Bile of Pitta Sun & Mars. 

Golden rules of health hazards 

Example 3. Deaf, dumb, can not walk since birth. 
Example 4. Life long suffering from diabetes. 
Symptoms of diabetes are ;0 

Example 5. Life long health problems of a married lady. 
Timing Diseases 


SECRETS OF LONG LIFE 

Origin of man - No answer. 

Nature's decaying process is known as disease. 
How to live happily. 

Some General knowledge about health and diseases. 
Language of body (meaning of signal). 

Harmful effects of common salt 

Music reduces chronic pain & insomnia. 


Surtrays may reduce cancer, schizophrenia, arthritis rickets. 


Hypertension and poor memory. 
Less risk of stroke. 
Sunburn disease. 


[ 39-87 ] 


[ 88-168 ] 


Astrological concepts of diseases. 
Karma -The eternal mystery. 
Composition of body, mind and soul. 
Relationship between body aud mind. 
Howto control mind (As per Geeta) 


Defect of human body. 
Controlling spirits. 
Power of a Yogi. : 


Astrological concept of mind. 

Example 6. Au iutelligeut boy of Bengal. 

Example 7. A Story of a lunatic man. 

Disease and hormones. 

Pituitary gland (governed by sun, mars and moon) 
Pineal Gland (ruled by ketu and moon) 

Thyroid gland (Governed by Jupiter and Sun) - 
Parathyroid gland (Governed by Saturn and Mercury) 
Thymus gland (Governed by Moon) 

Pancreas gland (Governed by Mars, Jupiter and Venus) 
Adrenal Glaud (Governed by Mars, Venus and Jupiter) 
Example 8. Beard ofa woman. 

Sex Glands (Governed by Mars and Venus) 

Role of Minerals ou Health. 

Vitamins and diseases. 

Saturated And Unsaturated Oil. 

Yoga, Meditation and Health = - 

Bio chemic therapy 

Vitamins of fruits and vegetables. 

Indian Herbs - Excellent Remedies. 

The importance of looking good (Personality Factor) 
Example 9. Acase of a bald Headed person. 

Remedies for Suntan, stretch marks or burn marks on the face. 
Secrets of ageless living (100-150 yrs.) 


CHAPTER 4: LONGEVITY { 169-180 J 
Example 10. Death for brain, cancer. 
Example 11, Death for the brain cancer in infancy. 
Example 12. Dead body was found with smashed face ou 05-05-2006. 
Example 13. Died in dropsy disease. 
Example 14. Disease free long innings of life of awell versed astrologer. 
Example 15. Loss of both legs in old age accident. '~ 
Example 16. Life history ofa billionaire medical doctor of Bengal. 


CHAPTERS: DISEASEANDITS CURE [181-347] 
Heart Disease and hypertension. 
Example 17. Bye pass heart surgery 
Example 18. Bye-pass surgery in the middle ages. 
Example 19. Bye-pass heart surgery in the middle age (less than 40) 
Example 20. Bye-pass heart surgery at the fag end of life. 
Example 21, Bye-pass surgery which bronght paralysis of the body on 
both side at the fag of life. 
Example 22. Rheumatic heart which caused early death. 
Example 23. No heart problem inspite of several astrological yogas for this 
disease. 
Obesity. 
Example 24. Dulllifeofa fatman. 
Example 25. Fat son ofa marine engineerin Mumbai. 
Example 26. Obesity turned the | ife to hell. 
Example 27. Ruined education for obesity. 
DrugAddicts. 
Example 28. Case of drug addict. 
Example 29. Young age paralysis for drug addictidn. 
Example 30. Case of a smoker 
Alcohol deadlier for teenagebrains. 
Cancer and its remedial measures. 
Example 31.A case of throat cancer. 
Example 32. Death in infancy for cancer. 
Example 33. Recovery from uterus cancer. 
Example 34. Death forcancer. 
Example 35. Successful cancer operation. 
Liver Disease 
Example 36. Cirrhosis of liver. 
Example 37. Serious jaundice. 
Example38.Abscessofliver. 
Kidney and Gallstone. 
Example 39. Case of kidney stone. 
Example 40. Case of kidney stone. 
Example 41. Case of kidney stone. 
Example 42. Galkbladder stone. 
Example 43. Acase of gall stone. 
Example44. Case of gall bladderstone. 
Example 45. Case of kidney stones. 
Gout, Arthritis & Rheumatism. 
Example 46. Severe set backs in life for Rheumatism. 


Example 47. Severe set backs in life for Rheumatism. 
Example 48. Case of osteoarthritis. 

Asthma and its cure. 

Which gem should be prescribed as aremedial measure ? 
Colour therapy. 

Example 49. Childhood attack of asthma. 

Example 50. Childhood attack of asthma. 

Example 51.Severe asthma attack in boyhood days. 
Example 52. Life long suffering from asthma. 
Paralysis and its cure. 

Example 53. Case of paralysis. 

Example 54. Case of paralysis. 

Anaemia 

Example 55. A case of anaemia & poor health. 
Migraine (Headache) and its remedial measures. 
Example 56. A case of severe migraine. 

Example 57. A case of migraine. 

Constipation is the grand mother of al! diseases. 

How to rise above mediocfWMevel: * 

Bad breath and its cure. 

Leucoderma. 

Example 58. Cure of Leucoderma. . 

Example 59. Leucoderma of an advocate. 
Example60. Leucoderma started in the dasa of 8" Jord. 
Example 6!.Leucoderma of an fOCL Chief Engineer. 
Vision Defect. 

Example 62. Spectacles in childhood. 

Example63. Detached eye retina, Right eye blindness. 


Example 64. Glaucoma disease. t 
Example 65. Blind female girl. 
Impotency. 


Example 66. Case of impotency. 

Example 67. No sex with wife. 

Pain management (Slipped disc and backache) 

Example 68. Severe sciatica pain running down left leg from the buttock. 
Appendicitis 

Example 69. Appendicitis operation in the middle age. . ' 
Example 70. Young age operation of appendicitis. 

Example 71. Appendicitis operation at the age of 12. 

Timing an operation. 

Yogas for operation. 


Example 72. Multiple surgery cases. 

Example 73. Six places of stomach removed. 

Example 74; Removal of large intestine. 

Summary of onset of serious illness for operation. 

Epilepsy. 

Example 75. Epilepsy in infant days. 

Example 76. Acase of epilepsy from childhood 

Schizophrenia. 

Example 77. House breaking lady violent schizophrenic man. 
Example 78. Schizophrenic man. 

Example 79. Schizophrenia. 

Mental Illness (Lunacy) 

Example 80. House breaking lady. 

Example 81. Birth of a moron, deaf and dumb from the childhood. 
Example 82. Case of idiocy. 

Example 83. Turned lunatic for depression.' 

Example 84, A case of lunacy of brilliant boy. 

Aids and other sex diseases. 

Example 85. Uterus removal. - 
Role of Venus in deformities and locomotions. 

Example 86. Loss vision of the right eye. 

Example 87. Loss of both legs. 

Example 88. Wheel chaired president roose velt of U.S.A. 
Example 89. Crushed left leg. 

Example 90, Multiple fracture in right leg. 

Fracture 6f bones and bone diseases. 

Example 91. Severe pain of bones of a billionaire business man of Delhi. 
Example 92. Fell down from roof fracture of backbones and left ankle. 
Example 93. Left leg fracture from a motorcycle accident. 
Example 94. Serious Motorcycle accident multiple fracture on both the legs. 
Speech and hearing defects 

Example 95. Born deaf and dumb. 

Example 96, Case of stammering. 

Example 97. Defective right ear. 

Example 98. Deafness of both the ears from Ang 1996. 
Thalassaemia a major disease of blood. 

Example 99. A case of thalassaemia. 

Example 100.A case of thalassaemia. ' 


HISTDRY OF DEVELOPMENT 
OF MEDICAL SCIENCE 


he life was not easy on this planet only 600 

yrs ago. The people used to suffer from 

various diseases for bacteria, virus and a 
lack of proper medical facility. Average life span 
was less than 35 in India. Though Hipocratus of 
Greece (460-370 BC) is the father of Medical 
science there was not much growth in the neglected 
branch of science for the next 1700 yrs. This is the 
dark period of the human civilization. Whatever we 
achieved between 1900-2000 AD, is much more 
compared to our achievements for the last 75,000 
yrs Many intelligent persons were bom after 1400 
AD in Europe who eliminated most of the 
dangerous diseases like cholera, malaria, small pox 
(which killed millions of persons), hydrophobia, 
plague etc. Only 200 yrs ago the main killer diseases 
in India were plague, small pox, cholera and 
malaria. We understand from the novels written by 
famous Bengali writer Sarat Chandra Chatterjee 
that people used to die like rats in the nineteenth 
century from Cholera and Plague. Many people 
perished in frequent wars throughout the globe. 
British ruled India between 1757-1947 and kept this 
mighty nation under utter poverty. They looted our 
country. The author was born in ]94] and heard the 


(20) 


stories of standard living of Indians from his grand mother (who died in 
1968 at the age of 100). In Bengal Famine 1941-1946, (artificially 
created by British) millions of Bengalees died in starvations Amartya 
Sen got Nobel Prize for writing a book on Bengal Famine in 1998. India 
is periodically ruled by foreigners from 1000 AD to 1947. Muslim 
invaders looted our country, several times, but did not damage our 
environment. British people did not allow anybody to earn enough 
money and forced us to live belowthe poverty line. There were hardly a 
structure made of burt bricks. People used to live in thatched houses 
with roofs covered with leaves or straw. Poverty was visible 
everywhere. There was no electricity, no cooking gas, no cars, no 
schools, no hospitals, no qualified doctors upto 1947. People used to 
die in mal nutrition. Readers will be surprised to learn that electricity 
entered in every house in India after 1955. Today we observe (in 2007) 
mini Tajmahals are built with marbles even in remote villages. In 2005 
AD BJP Central Government declared that India is shining. The 
average life span of Indians are more than 55 in 2007. Hundreds of 
persons above 80 are enjoying their lives. Govt. is providing facilities 
and proper recognition to senior citizens. A large number of diseases, 
from avitaminosis to tuberculosis, are most prevalent among people on 
poor diets. Well fed people who are not overweight are the healthiest. 
There are about 800 million persons on this earth who do not have 
anything to eat. In Ethiopia and in other African countries and in some 
countries in Asia, people are dying for Malnutrition. During 14" 
century to nineteenth century people in the Europe also suffered from 
various dangerous diseases. Due to poverty and for lack of education 
India failed to produce highly intellectual person between 1000-1800 
AD. Madras University, BHU and Calcutta University produced many 
intellectual giants between] 860-1947. Since India was misruled by 
foreigners (mostly Muslims) there was not much progress in last 1000 
yrs, and people used to die like rats/dogs. Thanks to God, situation has 
changed dramatically in 2007 in India. We are now proud about our 
IITs, 1IMs and All India Institute of Medical Science, Delhi. We hope 


(21) 


India will also contribute significantly in the field of genetic 
engineering after 2050 or so. Now foreign scientists are trying to find 
methods so that a human being can cross 500 yrs or so, which we feel 
today is not impossible. In mythology we find Ravan, Dasharath and 
other Indian sages lived for 10,000 yrs or so. 
Great progress in medical science started by Andreas Vesalius (1514- 
1564) who is the father of modern anatomy. He was born in Brussels, 
Belgium. His father was a pharmacist, but his grandfather and great 
grand father were physicians. As a child he used to practice dissection 
on dogs, cats and other animals on his mother's kitchen table. He 
studied medicine in the university of Louvain in Belgium and in Paris. 
In [536, war broke out between France and "Holy Roman Empire". 
Vesalius, as an alien became suspect and was forced to leave Paris. He 
joined as a Lecturer in Venice University, Italy. In those days practice 
of teaching anatomy was to engage a barber to do dissection while the 
professor lectured on the platform (barbers were also surgeons in 
ancient India and medieval Europe) and taking the in the knife in hand, 
performed dissection himself, at the same time lecturing to the 
assembled students in spite of the unpleasant stench. After working for 
sometime in Venice he moved to the famous University of Padua, also 
in Italy. There within two days of his admittance as a graduate student 
he was awarded his Doctorate in Medicine in 1537 and was appointed 
to a full professorship. Thus Andreas Vesalius, at the age of 23 became 
a member of the most prestigious medical faculty in Europe. Fourteen 
centuries earlier, the Greek surgeon Galen who lived in Rome had 
written a text on human anatomy, but he did ‘so by dissecting animals. 
Therefore many errors crept into his study. Vesalius display the 
skeleton of an ape side by side with skeleton of a man and pointed 200 
differences between them and conclusively disproved Galen. In 1543 
he published his famous work, "De Humani Corporis Fabrica." It was 
the most accurate book on human anatomy upto that time. It had 
excellent illustrations of the human body done by a pupil of the great 
venetion artist Titian. The printing was also meticulously executed, 


(22) 


*sparing no expenses, Vesalius had engaged the most reputed printer of 
those days. He secured a position as physician to the Emperor Charles 
V and later to Charles's son, the Spanish King Philip II. He died in 
1564 when his ship was caught in a storm off the coast of Greece. 
Antoine Van Leeuwenhoek (1632-1723) was a pioneer in the field of 
microscopy. Leeuwenhoek used microscope of his own design, and 
manufacture was the first to observe bacteria and protozoa. He started 
his life as a draper. The draper is one who sells cloths and curtains and 
similar items. Leeuwenhoek was the first to observe the constituents of 
blood under a microscope. Studying a drop of water u..der his lens, he 
was amazed to see it was full of life. They stop, they stand still. His 
talents were recognized by Regnier de Graaf, a noted physician and 
anatomist of that time. He wrote to Royal Society of Landon about him. 
After a 50 yrs of correspondence between Leeuwenhoek and Royal 
Society, London, in 1680 an honour, which every scientist covets, the 
membership of the Royal Society was given to him. He became very 
famous. With fame, a steady stream of visitors to his home also began, 
so much so that Leeuwenhoek regretted the loss of his privacy. He 
remained active till he passed away in 1726. His final letter to the Royal 
Society, mailed by his daughter after his death, bequeathed to the 
society, a cabinet containing 26 of his very finest and most beloved 
silver microscopes. Gregor Mendel (1822-84) was the father of 
Genetics. He was born in Henzendorfin Moravia in July 22, 1822, now 
in Czechoslovakia. He was a Moravian monk. He experimented with 
garden peas and the conclusions he drew from his experiments make 
the foundation of he modem science of genetics. The data and 


: conclusions drawn fiom the experiments were presented in the form of 
paper and read by Mendel in 1865 before Bro Natural History Society. 

* Jt was published in the proceedings of the society in 1866. Mendel's 
experiments proved that there is something in the plant that determine 
the properties of seeds. That something we now call a gene, and the 
property it determines, a characteristic. The overall set of 
characteristics is the phenotype. Active observation, determination, 


(23) 


long years of patient research and experiment, and courage: these and 
the brain of Edward Jenner, fought and defeated the scourge of small 
pox, which killed thousands of millions across the globe. Basing his 
work on the country belief that infection with cow-pox prevented the 
contraction of small pox, Jenner worked for 20 yrs to establish at last 
his principle of vaccination. It rapidly came to be recognized as an 
effective preventive of small pox, and its widespread use has 
practically stamped out this once rampant disease. He lived between 
17-5-1749 to 24-1-1823. In 1798 Jenner published his Inquiry into 
cause and Effect on the variole vaccine which be followed a year later 
With further inquiries and in 1800, complete statement of facts and 
observations. In 1810, his physician son died all on a sudden, and this 
loss and the strain of his labours caused Jenner to have a breakdown. He 
retired at Berkely, only going to London on important business. 
Jenner's grief became overwhelming when his wife died in 1815.Such 
type of pious soul visits the earth very rarely. After 300 yrs. of 
discovery of bacteria under microscope by Leeuwenhoek, almost 100 
yrs after the discovery of vaccine of smallpox by Jenner, Robert Koch 
(1843-1910), Louis Pasteur (1822-1895), Joseph Barain Lister 
(1827-1912) Alexander Flemming (1 881-1955), FJ. Conn established 
the science of bacteriology. After the discovery of electron microscope 
in 1935, three types of bacteria were recognized by Cohn rod forms 
(bacilli) spheres (cocci) and corkscrew form (spirilla). Bacteria range 
in the size from 0.2u to 2p (1p= 10%cm). Electron microscope is an 
instrument which can magnify an object 2 lakh to 3 lakh times, and 
their pictures can be taken. Here are some of bacterial diseases of 
humans : anthrax, bacterial pneumonia, botulism, bubonic plague, 
cholera, diphtheria, bacterial dysentery, syphilis, leprosy, meningitis, 
scarlet fever, septic sore throat, tetanus, tuberculosis, tularemia, 
typhoid, undulant fever and whooping cough. An antibody is produced 
in the host as a reaction to the introduction of a foreign substance, 
usually a protein, which is called the ANTIGEN. A unique feature of an 
antibody is its specificity for the antigen that stimulated its formation. 


{24) 


Thus, in case of typhoid fever, the antigens of typhoid bacilli will cause 
the host to produce specific antibodies. The later react with and 
inactivate the typhoid bacilli proteins with which they come in contact, 
but do not react with other bacilli or react more weakly. Anti bodies 
once formed may remain for years in the body of the host organism and 
impart varying degrees of immunity. Today we know that the 
milkmaids who had contacted cowpox as an occupational hazard 
acquired active immunity their bodies produced antibodies in reaction 
to the pathogenic virus of cowpox. In the development of methods of 
immunization against poliomyelitis, Jonas Salk and his colleagues 
discovered that they could take active polio virus, kill them with a 
poison called formaldehyde and use the killed viruses as antigens, 
when injected the antigens still caused the production of polio 
antibodies that protected the person from poliomyelitis. Albert Sabin 
used a different method of producing polio antibodies in the host. He 
treated polio viruses to weaker them so that they would not produce the 
disease. A suspension of living but weakened viruses can then be 
swallowed, and the person will build antibodies against poliomyelitis. 
Louis Pasteur (1822-1895) saved the mankind from a dreadful disease 
called hydrophobia in which the sufferer has a most terrible thirst but 
cannot bring himself to touch water. After vaccination the dogs could 
be bitten by mad dogs without the usual dire results. He applied the dog 
vaccine on human beings on July 6, 1885 and found wonderful results. 
He also eliminated anthrax which was a very common disease of sheep 
in France and found that boiling wines/or milk at 71°C for 15 second 
and chilling rapidly all the bacteria were killed. This process is known 
as pasteurization which is widely used in USA and Europe and other 
developed countries in modern days for producing milk. He developed 
anthrax vaccine. Robert Koch discovered the vaccine for tuberculosis 
and cholera. Dr. Jems Young Simpson (1811-1870) introduced 
chloroform in surgery. Two hundred years ago, surgical operations 
were extremely painful and sometimes even patients died of pain. 
James Simpson started the use of chloroform in surgery and saved 


(25) 


succeeding generations from incalculable suffering. Dr. Simpson's 
views were accepted by the medical profession and the practice of 
anesthesia became common in Britain. He introduced a new method of 
binding arteries. This method is known as acupressure. He has made 
great contribution in gynecology and obstetric and his papers on both 
the subjects are of permanent value. Through his efforts special 
hospitals were started for the treatment of women in Britain, and other 
countries followed suit. In this way be became the saviour of countless 
mothers. Joseph Lister (1827- 1912) and Pasteur worked out jointly. 
His greatest discovery was, of course, antiseptics and their use, but he 
is also responsible for the perfection of the methods of stitching 
wounds. Hitherto very fine silk had been used for ligatures and this 
often caused poisoning to set in. It was Lister, who after experimenting 
with animals, introduced catgut as ligature which could be absorbed by 
the tissues of the body. In the early nineteenth century, after the 
successful operation the patient died from blood poisoning. He spend 
months experimenting in order to get the best results, and he finally 
reached the conclusion that the only way to arrest the spread of sepsis 
was to keep the wound in constant touch with some disinfectant which 
would make at impossible for any germ to live. He thus applied 
dressing soaked in carbolic acid. Lister's method of sterilization was in 
the beginning almost entirely by the use of acids but after discovery by 
Pasteur for the treatment of germs at 71°C, he immediately applied this 
method of sterilization using heat (boiling the instruments with water). 
This method is still followed in modern hospitals. In 1883, a baronetcy 
was conferred upon him, but he valued this honour for less than the 
Presidency of the Royal Society to which he was elected in 1894. he 
lost his wife in 1893, and finally took to holy order on 1OthFeb 1912, 
last 7 years he was bed ridden, practically as a crippled man. A British 
microbiologist by the name of Alexander Fleming (1881-1955) was 
working on the antibiotic activity of a blue green mould in culture of 
staphylococcus growing on agar, Fleming had been working to isolate 
and grow the staphylococcus in pure culture. The Fungi form a large 


(26) 


and diversified group that contains 25% of all non-animal species on 
earth. There are 70,000 species of fungi ranging in size from 
microscopic to large 15 pounds puffballs and bracket fungi. They 
include the following toadstools, mushrooms, molds, mildews, blights, 
scabs, smuts, rots and yeast. All are characterized by the absence of 
chlorophyll. Among the ascomycetes group are yeast, penicillium, 
Aspergillus, neurospara and the fungus caratostamella, which causes 
Dutch elm disease. Pencillium and Aspergillus, both are blue green 
molds and grow on bread, fruit, watermelon, and a variety of other 
substance, like leather and paper. Aspergillus cause much food 
spoilage. Penicillum is valuable because its growth inhibits the growth 
| of bacteria. The drug penicillin is an extract obtained from this fungus. 
Fleming was examining his contaminated culture, and found that agar 
immediately surrounding the mold almost clear instead of being 
cloudy. The appearance of the clean area showed that the growth of 
staphylococcus had been inhibited by some substance produced the 
mold. Fleming isolated the antibiotic substance and named it 
penicillin, in 1929. In 1939,a group of scientists under the guidance of 
Prof. Howard Floaring, of Oxford University started working on the 
penicillin project. Dr. Chain produced powder penicillin. Commercial 
production of penicillin started in USA in 1943 and they applied this 
drug on the wounded soldiers of World War- II. They were astonished 
to observe the beneficial effects on this drug. In 1945. Nobel committee 
awarded Nobel Prize to Dr. Howard Floaring, Flemming and Dr. 
Chain. In 1944 Naksmann and his co-workers discovered 
streptomycin, aureomycin and terramycin. Today about 25 antibiotics 
derived from moulds are commercially produced. Some have their 
greatest effects against specific bacteria, others show a broad spectrum 
of action against bacteria. The sulfa drug, sulfonamide, sulfadiazine 
and penicillin have saved countless lives .in hospitals and on 
battlefields throughout the world. Many discoveries have been referred 
to as lucky "chancer". Pasteur has told, ‘chances favour the trained 
mind’. 8th lord in co-relation with Rahu help in inventions (Twin Eight 


(27) 


Houses of the Zodiac by Dr. S.S. Chatterjee). 

Control of Malaria : The ancient centers of civilization in Egypt, Iraq, 
India, China, Greece and Italy were attacked by this dangerous disease, 
which survived thousands of years, may be | lakh years or so. So 
malaria, chicken pox, etc. are as old as civilization. About 2000 years 
ago physicians described this dangerous disease. They described the 
chills and fevers, and the recurring attacks of the disease. They 
distinguished three intermittent fevers, which have many causes. They 
also noticed that the disease was frequent among people living in low, 
marshy areas. Somehow the stagnant waters of the marshes were 
thought to poison the air. As a result of breathing this "bad air" people 
became ill with malaria. The Italian words for "bad" and "air" are mala 
and aria. Although the importance of cinchona (a plant found in Pen) 
for treating malaria was recognized in the 16” century, physicians of 
the time knew nothing of the cause of malaria. In 1717, an Italian 
scientist suggested that malaria was transmitted by mosquitoes. He 
knew that malaria decreased when swamps were drained. One 
American physician A.F. A King in 1883, suggested that mosquitoes 
are involved in the spread of malaria. He failed to prove it. He 
identified the germ Plasmodium, which causes malaria. Sir Ronald 
Ross, a British Army physician working in India, carried out extensive 
research works with mosquito and sparrow. He found Anopheles 
mosquito was responsible for the spread of malaria. His experiments 
were verified by Italian biologists in 1898. By the early twentieth 
century mankind possessed enough information to control malaria. Sir, 
Ronald Ross was honoured with Nobel Prize. With arsenal composed 
of DDT, choloroquine and may other chemical substances it was 
possible to wage a successful war against Plasmodium. The UNO 
confirmed death toll due to malaria 30 lakhs in 1946, throughout the 
globe, Malaria, Dengu exists in Delhi and Noida even in 2007. Govt. of 
India should try to wipe out mosquitoes. 

Christian Bamard, (1922-2001) a poor African farm boy (South 
Africa) who made his mark on the history of medical science with the 


(28) 


world's first heart transplant. On a Dec. 1967 night he took the heart of 
Deenise Darvels 25, a motor accident victim and stitched it into Louis 
Washkansky, 53, a grocer. Washkansky died 18 days later from 
pneumonia, but already Baranard was being hailed as a pioneer. He 
went on to perform several more heart transplants, more successful 
than the first. He also started research to eliminate aging process. His 
publications include Surgery of Common Congenital Cardiac 
Malformations (1968), Heart Attack. You don't have to die (1971), the 
Arthritis Handbook (1984). In 1986 Barnard sang the praises of an 
“elixir of youth" ingradient known as GSL or glycosphin-golipids. Dr. 
Hargobind Khorana, Nobel Laureate (1968) developed a method for 
the artificial synthesis of genes (DNA and RNA). He shared Nobel 

. Prize with M.W. Norenburg and R. W. Holley. Due to his research it has 
now become possible to treat many troublesome hereditary diseases. 
He got his Ph.D. under Prof. A. Robertson of Manchester University, 
England. In 1948 he returned to India and but failed to get any job. He 
went back to England in 1948 and went to Canada in 1952 where he got 
maried with a daughter of a Swiss MP. In 1970, he joined MIT, Boston. 
He had been honourd with many prestigious international awards. He 
was awarded Padma Bhusan, by the Govt. of India. Let us examine his 
horoscope (See advanced predictive Astrology Vol, 2 P 40 by Dr. SS. 
Chatterjee) DOB 9,19.1922 at Rajpur, Punjab, Pakistan at 15=30 hrs. 
Taurus Lagna, Moon 0°7', Virgo Saturn, Rahu, Jupiter; Libra Mars, 
Sagittarius Venus, Sun; Capricom Mercury, Pisces Ketu. He was 
bom with Parijata Yoga, a yoga for all oe 
forming this unique yoga for him. Since Ds : fe 
the kendras of Moon are vacant, he had 


immortals. Lord of Lagna is placed in the 
problems in the early periods of his Le 
career. He never got any job in India when nN 


whose dispositor Mercury is in the 


8n house, whose dispositor Jupiter in 5i, 
he retumed home after his Ph.D. degree. 


(29) 


His work was assured for a Noble Prize during Jupiter-Venus dasa and 
received the Prize during Jupiter-Ketu dasa, Yoga Karaka Satum 
changed the chemistry of 8" lord Jupiter. Jupiter, Mercury are his 
Parijata Yoga froming planets, so their dasa yielded most fruitful 
results for him. 8” lord in presence of Rahu helped him in his inventions 
(Read Twin 8* houses of the Zodiac by Dr. S.S. Chattarjee). Planets in 
the 11" house and 11" lord's dasa is bad for any native, his mundane 
journey may be extinguished during Ketu's dasa in 2013. We shall end 
this article with the biography of Dr. Samuel Hahnemann (1755-1843), 
the founder of homoeopathy. Most of us, at one time or the other, have 
benefited from the curatative powers of homoeopathic medicines after 
not getting relief from other systems of medicines. Efficacy of 
homoeopathic medicines has been established . beyond doubt. 
Hahneman extended the ancient idea of "the cures like" into a complete 
medical system for first time. He coined the term "Homoeopathy", 
from the Greek roots for ‘similar’ and 'suffering' to describe the new 
system that he evolved from the laws of similars, although many of 
Hahnemann's contemporaries in Germany attempted to discredit his 
ideas as being radical and contrary to accepted medical theory, 
homoeopathy was sucha successful medical innovation that it spread 
throughout much of Europe and India in no time. The growing 
popularity of this virtually harmless system has continued to this day. It 
provide a safe, effective, natural and non-toxic treatment for may acute 
and chronic illness. He never got any recognition in his own country 
Germany. His wife died in 1830 leaving behind 4 kids. One French 
woman, Madam Melani met him in 1834, for the treatment of her skin 
diseases. They fell in love. On 01-01-1835, they got married and 
Madam Melani brought him to France, where he earned money, name, 
fame, happiness. He established 6 Homoeopathy colleges and got 
students from Europe and USA. On 2-7-1843 he left this earth forever. 
His first wife, Henrieta died in utter poverty. His all children suffered in 
Germany. 

Cloning technology could help thousands of people now dying while 


(30) 


they wait for a heart or kidney transplant. With in the next few years, 
research into cloning genetically modified animals could lead to a 
ready supply of donar orgains, enough to meet the needs of thousand of 
patients and paten and to the cruel transplant lottery. But the most 
exciting research, the medicine of 2050 onwards, involves therapeutic 
cloning : culturing and reprogramming a patienst own cells tognake 
healthy replacement for damaged tissue. In July 1996, a perfectly 
formed, pure white lamb was born. She was christened Dolly. With no 
* father or mother, her very existence transformed scientific thinking and 
ushered in a brave new biotechnological age. The creator of Dolly is 
Dr. Ian Wilmut of England. Dolly died in 2006. 
Control of diarrhoea and Flu: 
Toilets can save 18 million kids annually who die of diarrhoea world 
vide according to UNDP. Efficacy of human waste disposal is one of 
the strongest determinants of child survival. Globally 2.6 billion 
people lack access to proper sanitation of which 1.9billion are in Asia. 
No access to sanitation means people draw water for drinking, cooking 
and washing from rivers, lakes and ditches fouled with human and 
animal excrement. According to UNDP's Human Development report 
of Nov. 2006, in access to flush toilet reduced the risk of infant deaths 
decreased by 59% in Peru, 57% in Egypt. Three out of one in India 
don't have access to toilets. Govt. of India should think on this project 
seriously. Diarrhoea kills 4,50,000 in India annually. Influenza (flu) is a 
highly contagious respiratory illness caused by a virus. It ranks sixth 
among killer diseases in USA. Virus enters the body though respiratory 
tract. Symptoms are coughing, sneezing, fever, body ache, congestion, 
lethargy. About 20 crores Indians come down with influenza. At 
present flu vaccines are imported. Each shot costs around Rs, 500/- and 
the effects lasts for one year. 
Arsenic and lead poisoning 
It causes nerve damage, skin damage (Hyperkeratosis-scaling skin), 
pigment changes. There is increased cancer risk of lung, bladder, 
kidney, there is circulatory problems Of skin. High levels of lead causes 


(31) 


mental retardation, convulsions and death. Extreme low levels of lead 
reduces IQ and attention span, reading and learning disabilities, 
hearing loss and a range of other health and behavioural effects. Entire . 
India is suffering from the risk of amesic contamination of the 
groundwater. (particularly Noida, Delhi, Bangladesh, West Bengal). 
Scientist at Rice University, Houston, found that magnetite is a simple, 
inexpensive option for removing hazardous element arsenic. Iron can 
form bonds with arsenic and they could extract arsenic from drinking 
water by simply adding their rusty nanoparticles, letting the iron gather 
up the arsenic ions and then removing the particles with a magnet. 
Researches are going on in Brownsville and at Jadavpur University 
Kolkata under the guidance of Dr. Dipankar Chakaravorty for the field 
applications. Hydrologists have set 1700 cubic meters per person as the 
minimum amount of water needed to grow food, support industries and 
maintain the environment completion over controlling the planet's 
water resources will increase among nations in the next decade. Middle 
east is the world's most water stressed region. Today in 2007, 43 
countries live below the water stress threshold. Almost a quarter of the 
world's supply of fresh water in Lake Baikal in the sparsely populated 
Siberia. With 31% of global fresh water resources, Latin America has 
12 times more water per person than South Asia. Earth may i.e. a water 
planet but 979% of its water is in its oceans. Most of the remainder is 
locked in Antarctic ice caps or deep underground leaving less than 1% 
available for human use in fresh water lakes and rivers. Pollution free 
air, pure drinking water and distress free mind are essential ingredients 
for a disease free life. 


INVENTIONS OF LIFE SAVING DRUGS 
From the beginning of 20" century, many life savings drugs were 
invented. The term chemotherapy was introduced by Ehrilich (1909) 
and it now appears to be used in the sense of the treatment of diseases 
due to bacterial invasion by affecting to any material extent, the tissues 
(host). Many compounds e.g. formaldehyde (HCHO), Phenol, iodine 


(32) 


etc. are also active in destroying bacteria. These compounds are 
however, applied externally and lead to destroy the tissues; thus they 
are included under the heading therapeutic agents but are known as 
disinfectants. The first compound to be used by Ehrlich (1907) were 
organic dyes. From then onwards, organic compounds of diverse 
chemical structures have been used in chemotherapy. Compounds 
which exert various psysiological effects of therapeutic value, are 
collectively known as drugs. Sulphadrugs: Sulphanilamide 
HN <7__YSO,NH, and its derivatives have great antibacterial 
powers; sulphanilamide itself is widely used in medicines against 
‘cocci infections: - streptococci, gonococci and pneumococci. It was 
invented by Domagk (1934). Sulphanilamide may be synythesised 
from acetanilide. Sulphapyridine was the first drug to effect cures of 
pheumnia; it is more potent than sulphanilamide., 


SS 
NH, <_Nso, wnt 9 was introduced 


Sulphapyridine 
in the name of M and B 693. Sulphathiazole is more potent than 
sulphapyridine and less toxic and is used in severe infections. It is 


represented as . 
. S 
. N 6 


Sulphathiazole 
Sulphadiazine is used for mild infections. It is less toxic than 
sulphathiazole. 


nw’ 
NH, Z »s0,— NH 2 


Safadiazine 


(33) 


Sulphaguanidine, since it is slightly absorbed in the intestinal tract, 
can therefore be given in relatively large doses in the treatment of 


bacillany dysentery. pf - 
/ 7 HN i 7 S SO... NH —C NH, 


Sulphaguanidine 
Antimalarials : C,,H,,O,N, Quinine was originally the only drug 
known to be effective against malaria. Now" there is number of 
synthetic compounds e.g. Plasmoquin, Mepacrine, Proguanil used for 
this purpose. 


CH, 
ChL0F NH.CH.(CH,);N(C:H,), 
NN 
NH.CH(CH,)CH,.CH, CH; N(CH,); 
Plasmoquin Chloroquine or Mepacrine 


Poguanil is the best antimalarial at present time and is superior to 
Mepacrine and chloroquine. 


<a: mM 
Cl - NH-C-NH-C- CH (CH,), 


Poguanil 
Antibiotics: Many microorganirms, produced within themselves 
chemicals substances, which were exereted, interfere with the growth 
or metabolism of other micro-organisms, such compounds are known 
as antibiotics. In 1929. Fleming discovered a mould of the Penicillium 
>>.cies which inhibited the growth of certain bacteria. Research along 
line by many scientists led to the isolation of many other 


(34) 


antibiotics. Penicillin is the name given to the mixture of natural 
compounds having the molecular formula C,H,,O,N,SR and differing 
only in the nature of R . 


Chemical name R 

Pent 2 ehylpenicillin - CH,. CH = CH. CH,. CH, 
N Heptylpenicillin - (CH,),CH; 

M Amylpenicillin -(CH,), CH, 


Many synthetic penicillins have now been prepared. It was only during 
second world war when penicillin came on the scene that it was tried in 
the treatment of syphilis and gonorohoea, with some success. Later a 
whole range of broad spectrum antibioties have been employed by the 
traditional physician to deal with the above two dangerous sex 
diseases. 

Streptomycin : It was isolated by Worksman et al (1944) from culture 
of streptomyces griseus. This antibiotic is very effective in the 
treatment Tuberculosis. Meningitis and Pneumonia. The moleculon 
formula was shown to be C,, H,, O,, N;. three nitrogen atoms are 
strongly basic and on mild acid hydrolysis, streptomycin gives one 
molecure of streptidine, C, H, O, N, and one molecule of 
steptobiosamine, C,, H,,; O,N. 

Aureomycin and Terramycin : Aureomycin was isolated from 
cultures of streptomyces aureofaciens and is used in the treatment of 
typhoid, fever etc. Terramycin was isolated from cultures of 
streptomyces rimosus and is very effective in the treatment of 
trachoma. The structures of these antibiotics are (Woodward et al 
1952) 


(35) 


Auromycin:R=Cl, R'=H -  Tertamycin: R=H; R'=OH 
Chloramphenicol (Cy, H,. O, N, Cl) is very effective in typhoid and 
fever etc. : i 
Our modern civilization in medicine is only 100 yrs old. Author 
‘believes within next 100 yrs i.e. in 2100 AD the life span will be more 
than double compared to 2000 AD i.e. majority of Indian will cross 100 
yrs and Americans / Western Europeans (for the cold temperature) will 
cross 80x2=] 60 yrs, Infant mortality will never be conquer.4, because 
actually God controls our life spans Those people, who have benefics 
in Kendras, will surely live for longer periods of life. I advise 1, -ople to 
drink the elixir of life i.e. the yellow fruit juice for increasing their life 
span. An average American drinks 3-4 liters of orange juice daily. 
Author observed this thing during his long stay in USA. Poor Indians 
can take germinated grams, pineapple juice and neem leaves. The 
author has cured many patients from their diabetes. Take 50: gm 
germinated grams with curd, mixed with 20 or more green leaves of 
neem. Your are cured from this dangerous disease within 60 days. 
Those who have afflicted Venus, get this disease easily. Sprouted 
grams please Venus. (Venus is controlled by the natural white colour, ° 
Jupiter is controlled by yellow colour, Saturn is controlled by violet 
colour, Mars is controlled by Red Colour, Mercury through’-green 
colours, Sun through Maroon colour like water melon, carrot, tomato 
etc, Moon through again with white colours), Fasting on Saturdays and 
Tuesdays cures many diseases, including accidents. Take less salt on 
Saturday, avoid the’ colours of 6°/8" lords. Know it from your 
astrologer. Actually 6°/8" lords should be weaker than Lagnesh. 4" lord 
should be strong. It is the actual ruler of health and happiness. Make 
your 4" lord super strong using natural colour therapy. Only’ common 
sense can’save you from many diseases. Many unknown diseases are 
cured with salt free diet. 
It has been known that green plants use the energy of sunlight to carry | 
outa process that appears to be reverse of glucose oxidation. 


; 6CO,+6H,0 + light energy sane CH, O,+60, So plants are 


(38) 


increasing our oxygen level of the atmosphere. Do hot wipe out plants. 
Try to make green forests everywhere (like Noida), for increasing the 
life span on our sojourn to this beautiful planet earth. Clean water, and a 
clean atmosphere (pollution free air) will increase thedife span of every 
soul on this earth. Let it be the goal of every civilized nation on this 
earth, make the rivers pollution free. Be a civilized soul. 

HIB Virus : it stands for Hemophilus Influenza type B, the name of a 
bacterial micro-organism that causes several serious, often life 
threatening illness like meningitis, epiglottitis, which is inflammation 

of the windpipe and a dangerous heart disease, pe -icarditis,. So in spite 
of several life saving drugs, we are’ equally helpless at the hands of 
destiny even in 2006. New viruses are created by God, for controlling 

“human population. Attempts will be made in this book to find the types 
of diseases anybody will suffer and his mode of death Aids, Cancer, 
heart disease, virus causing pneumonia, sudden death through 

accidents, malaria, dengu, kidney failures etc are the greatest killer - 

Idiseases of | 21" cent. . Malaria is trying a come back in India. It is 

impossible to sit in any drawing room of India in the evening without a 
mosquito bite. Mosquitoes are immune to Allout, Good Night etc., the 

? traditional brand of mosquito repellars, 

TOI dated 17°June 2006 P 16 declares that still in 2006, environmental 
hazards are responsible for many deaths as follows: Diabetes 58 
million, for poor sanitation and polluted drinking water, Lower 
respiratory tract infections 37 million due to pollution, Road injuries 

; 15 million, due to poor urban development, malaria 19 million, due to 
poor water resources, housing and land use management, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary diseases 12 million, due to exposure to 

‘. workplace dust and fumes, perinatal condition$ 11 million. WHO 

»estimates that 33% diseases in children under the age of 5 caused by 
environmental exposure. By decreasing pollution level, maintaining 

: high sanitation standard and arranging pure drinking water, death rates 

can be lowered. According to TOI dated 24-11-2006, map of genetic 

variation could be the key of beating common diseases. The map looks 


GB) 


at differences in duplication and detections of large DNA segments, 

which can help explain why some people are susceptible to illness such 
as AIDS and others not. The consortium identified 1447 different 

CNVs that covered about 12% of the human genome. About 285 of 

them are associated with diseases including schizophrenia, psoriasis, 

coronary heart disease and congenital cataracts. 


(38) 


CHAPTER - 2 | 


SECRETS OF 
PROGNOSTICATION OF 
. DISEASE 


e are not far away from the date when 
DNA chips will allow us to assess bur 
own inherited - predisposition for 


certain diseases. We will eat those choicest foods 
which will be guided by the software. People differ 
in their genetics and metabolism, one diet won't fit 
all. One will be able to track the metabolism day-to- 
day to determine what foods one should eat at a 
given time. I am sure by 2020 AD, it would be 
possible to eliminate many diseases with proper 
diet. We fall sick mainly for improper food .Medical 
Astrology is a very vast subject. Even entire life 
dedication in astrology is not enough to tell the type 
of diseases that a particular native will suffer with 
100% accuracy, it is because nature does not want to 
reveal its game plan so easily. Many new diseases 
appear which create havoc. The author has laboured 
very hard to collect the important yogas for all types 
of diseases, framed by seers of yore for the benefit of . 
mankind. Forewarned is forearmed. So if anybody 
knows, the type of diseases he is likely to suffer he 
will definitely take precaution to avoid it. By 
consuming choicest foods we can overcome many 
diseases. Take all coloured fruits, fresh vegetables, 
curd, fish, (avoid saturated fatty acids such as dalda 


G9) 


ghee), and some bitter food like neem or karela. It is possible to live 80 
yrs or so without diseases. Remove constipation which is grand mother 
of all diseases. Dasas of highly malefic planets generate diseases. 
Author has talked about 10 new diseases in 2007 and has suggested 
remedial measures for avoiding them. With research mind and armed 
with two dasa systems it is really possible to identify the doomsday of 
life on account of various diseases (try KCD, Vimsottori, Yogini and 
Chara dasa). No sophisticated analytical tool of medicine can diagnose 
or prognsticate illness years before its occurrence with such accuracy 
as astrology can. When Lagnesh is posited in an enemy camp and 
afflicted, Lagna is also afflicted one enjoys a miserable life on this 
planet earth. Aspect 6f Jupiter in lagna is the blessings of God. 
Experience of disease is a sad memory. Whence come those mysterious 
influences, which change our happiness into discouragement and our 
sub-confidence into diffidence? One might almost say the air, the 
invisible air is full of unknowable, Conjunction of evil planets (Sun, 
Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu) in Kendra and 2m 11"/6" 8"/] 2" houses 
produces severe health hazard Conjunction of Venus with Ketu, Mars, 
Sun, Saturn or Rahu produces lose character in certain sensitive houses 
(2"74°/7"/8" /\2"). For freedom from scandals and infamy 8°/12" 
houses should be vacant. For a strong health lord of Lagna should be 
Stronger than 6n lord, and 4* lord/4'' house should be strong. 
Retrograde planets increase longevity in trines/quadrant. Benefic 
planets in retrograde motion, in angles generate diseases during their 
dasas. Lagnesh and 8m lord if afflicted, give many sufferings in life. The 
6n house is generally the best guide to understand the native and 
duration of health problems one will experience in the lifetime. The 6* 
house is the center of all the six natural enemies of humanity viz Kama 
(lust) Krodha (anger), Lobha (cupidity) Moha (infatuation) Mada 
(arrogance), Matsarya (jealousy) . Aspect of 6” lord/8 lord in 
Ascendant makes one weak and vulnerable to ailments. Association of 
Lagna lord with 6°/8" lords is a distinct disadvantage for physical 
health. When the lagnalord, 6" Jord and Sun combine dook all three 


(40) 


malefics are conjoming in a single house) fevers are a regular feature. 
Moon, Mars and Sun in the 6" may produce jaundice, vomiting and 
colic pain. When the 6" lord is in a dusthana (6"/8"/12") and depressed, 
in an inimical sign, combust or in aspect of a malefic, but the lagna lord 
is strong, then it shields one from disease, severe diseases set in the 
body when 5" J 11” axis is afflicted. According to Jataka Parijata, if 
Saturn occupy the 2”/6"/8" / 12" houses the native becomes blind. 
Union of two or more malefics in lagna 2ni /6"/8"/11°/12" are never 
welcome. When planets are strong, there are many Raja Yogas, when 
malefics occupy 3td/ 11" house, benefics occupy trines / quadrants or 
when most of the planets are in their own sign sufferings in life will be 
very less. Mars-Rahu; Saturn-Rahu; Mars-Saturn-Rahu yoga in evil 
houses indicate operation possibilities. 


Let us study Example 1. Story of a diabetic patient : 
DOB : 6-4-68/5=3 0AM/ Culcatta, Pisces Lagna, Venus, Sun, Ketu, 
Mercury , Satum, Rahu;Mars Aries, Gemini ‘Moon; Leo Jupiter; 


Virgo Ketu. 

Here we find 6°/8"/12" lords. have cc 

conjoined together in Lagna which is a 

formidable malefic yoga arid is further ~ 

afflicted by Rahu-Ketu axis. He became - Ke 

5 planets in Lagna has Janded in the 6* Vem aa 
house, making all the five planets very vs 
very weak. The dasa of any planet whose dispositor has landed in 
6'/8"/12" house, can hurt one's interest heavily. Exchange of 1" and 8" 
lords have generated Dainya Yoga. Such people Will be wicked and 


diabetic at a very young age, got married 
in 1997, got ason on 1.12.2000 and died 
mean minded and will commit sinful acts. They will not complete any 
task they undertake. They will suffer at the hands of enemies and 


in July 2001 (during chidradasa of Saturn 
ie. Saturn-Jupiter dasa). The dispositor of 


41) 


disease. All the prophecies of sages came true in his life. When lords of 
Ix, 5” and 9" are in bad houses like 3/6/8/12 during the dasa of evilly 
posited 1°/5°/9" lords, the native will be ruined (AM, Jan 1966 P41). 
Saturn Rahu combination is worst and most baneful combination. This 
combination is baneful even if Saturn is a yogakaraka: But this 
combination is not bad in 3 “/6"houses. Rahu, Saturn'inthe angles of 6" 
lord brings many set backs in life. Here we find both Saturn and Rahu is 
posited with 6* lord Sun in Lagna and Lagnesh has landed in 6m. Until 
or unless the Kendras are not occupied by benefics, it is not possible to 
run a long innings of life. Venus afflicted by malefics generated 
diabetic in an early age. When Virgo is afflicted by Saturn, 6°/8"/12" 
lords, diabetes at an early age is expected. One does not live long when 
Sun and Moon are not aspected by benefics particularly Jupiter. 
Karmic control planets have generated 6/8 relationship which didnot 
allow him to enjoy his life. For a big, financial gain Rahu and Ketu's 
dispositors should not make 6/8 relationship. When a malefic Saturn is 
associated with any of the planets causing death he over sides all others 
and himself causes death (AM, Jan 2001, P 45). Here Saturn is his 
11°/12" lord and is associated with Mercury, Ketu, Venus all malefic 
planets for his Lagna. Hence he died during Saturn-Jupiter dasa. 11" 
lord in a dusthana leads to daridrayoga where one gets crushed under 
debts, becomes cruel, suffers from ear troubles, get caught in criminal 
or antisocial, is a liar and becomes servile. Kuhuyoga is caused by the 
4" lord in 6°/8"/12". this makes one bereft of mother or vehicles, friends 
happiness ornaments, relations, without a house with poor health. Fora 
happy life in one's mundane jumey 4" lord should combine with a trine 
lord to form a Raja Yoga as per Parasar. Until or unless there is a Raja 
Yoga financial stability can never be achieved. When the ascendant 
lord is with the malefic in 6"/8"/12", bodily well being will be lacking 
(observe here also conjunction of the malefics are needed to produce a 
poor health). Such natives may suffer from poor health. Malefic 
planets in malefic houses generate good results. On account of this 
reason 6" lord in 3“/6"/8°/11°/12" posited alone produces excellent 


(42) 


health. Sound health should be anticipated when this planet is aspected 
by a natural benefic. We will examine: the horoscope of Prof. RJ. 
Galgali, ex Professor of Chemistry, BHU (is the teacher of the author at 
M.Sc. level) 


Example 2. An example of good health : DOB 5-3-1927, 23=30, 
Belgaon. Scorpio Lagna, Saturn, Sagittarius, Ketu; Aquarius Sun, 
Jupiter; Pisces Venus, Moon, Mercury (R); Taurus Mars; Gemini 
Rahu. 


Conjunction of Satum and Mars or 

opposition of these planets is not 

welcome. The native indulges in use of 

weapons, clever in combat adept in 

burglary and forgery. He is bereft:-of 

peace, pleasure and comfort and faces 

criticism, humiliation and insults. Saturn 

and Mars in 5"/8"/12" produces aoe <_ 
Kemadruma Yoga, a yoga for sufferings at 

the hands of destiny in financial and in 

physical fronts. Saturn Mars in 12" produces dreaded criminals (it is 8" 
from 5"), in 8" it ends the life in a tragic circumstances. All women 
(100%true) suffer in married life who have Saturn Mars in 8, they 
also suffer from various female diseases. In 5", it may deny a progeny. 
The native’ will take many wrong decisions in life. Mars in 5 also 
produces Kuja dosha as it aspects the 8”. So there will be less peace in 
married life, should Saturn and Mars occupy the 5" house. Mars is a 
planet of logic, courage and action which is used destructively under 
the influence of strong Satum. The impact of Satum in Mars results in 
intolerance taking hazardous and foolhardy risks. He. develops a 
tendency of antigonizaing one and all. But if Saturn and Mars form 
Mahayoga or a Raja Yoga or that are many class I yogas in the 
horoscope (Parijata Yoga, Vasumati Yoga, Mahapurush Yoga, 


Akhandya Samraja Yoga, Raja Yogas such as Dharmakarmadhipati 
yoga, Adhi yoga, Gaja Keshani Yoga and Maha Yogas) the negative 


(43) 


traits of Saturn - Mars conjunction oropposition will evaporate in air, 
everything depends on the invisible lady luck (should have strong 9" 
lord/9" house), when 9th house is strong and is occupied by a natural 
benefic, a lady with afflicted 7°/8" house will enjoy happy married life. 
Good things in life should be foretold if 9n lord is occupied by a natural 
benefic and 6* lord is also aspected by a natural benefic. Prof. Galgali 
was bora with a Maha Yoga (exchange ofaspect between 1*/4" lords. 
Lord of Lagna is aspecting lagna, hence he has a strong horoscope. The 
man born in Maha Yoga (see Astrology Nectar by S.S. Chatterji P 35) 
will get the blessing's of the Goddess Lakshmi. He will be protected by 
sovereign and will command vehicles, wealth and children. They are 
well dressed and wear costly ornaments. They will receive valuable 
presents from the king or people in authority. Prophesies of sages came 
true in his life. Though he was born in Karnataka, he received his Ph.D 
degree in chemistry under illustrious head of the dept. of chemistry 
Prof. Joshi of BHU. He has a 6'2” tall body with a great personality. He 
was the iricharge of NCC, Dean, faculty of science, Professor of 
chemistry etc. during his service of BHU for about 35 years. His 2 sons 
and |] daughter are all medical doctors from BHU. Both the sons are 
working in our defence department, the daughter has settled in USA 
permanently. He has constructed two houses, one at Belgaon, other at 
DLW colony, Varanasi. He is completely free from diseases and, vices. 
He is non-smoker, non-alcoholic and a God fearing man. Today in 
2007, he is blessing people with his accurate forecasts. He can tell the 
future of anybody by face reading. Parijata Yoga, union of three 
benefics in the 5" house, union of 10h and 5w lord in 4", exalted Venus, 
strong Chandra Lagna, strong Surya Lagria made him a very very 
famous and wealthy man of the society. Strong 6 lord, provided him a 
raobust health (weight 100 Kg). He never suffered from any diseases or 
any calamity in life. He is a totally successful man of the 21s' century 
who has no regrets in life. The name of his house is Kashi Kripa at 
Belgaon. Yes lord Vishwanah of Varanasi blessed him with long life 
and enough happiness in life. He landed in Varanasi at the age of 18.He 


(44) 


has authored many books including "Mystic Crystals". He was a 
crystallographer and taught physical chemistry at BHU. In his 
horoscope we do not find the conjunction of evil planets in any house. 
The author is proud to include the horoscope his illustrious teacher of 
post graduate level in this article. 


For any ascendant when evil lords are posited in evil houses (8” lord 
should be posited in 6", 12" 3 or 11") and also 9" and 10" lords of the 
ascendant well placed and aspecting the evil lords of the ascendant (2™, 
3rd, 6",8", 1 1" and 12") and evil houses, instead of harm, bad, negative 
results we find excellent benefic results for the native. Dasa of 11"lord 
causes immense misery and even death. Planets in the 11" house 
invariably brings may bad news for the native during their antardasa 
weak planets bring many diseases. A planet becomes unfavourable 
under one or more of the following conditions: a) placed in the sign of 
debilitation. b) Placed in the enemy house. c) placed in 2"/6"/8"/12" 
house d) debilitated in Navamsa. When 2/3 planet are debilited in 
Navamsa, the horoscope loses merit. Raja Yogas yield futile results e) 
When its dispositor is weak, ill disposed or placed in 6"/8"/12" houses. 
f) when the planet is retrograde. All retrograde planets bring sufferings 
in life. ) when 6"/8"/12" houses of the planet are occupied by malefics 
h) A planet becomes weak when it moves to 3/6/8/12 from its own 
house. The following table will be helpful in knowing the most 
favourable planets for each Lagna. Dasa of weak planets bring 
diseases, infamy, financial distress and other various types of miseries 
in life 

The moment of death is indicated by Chidra Grahas. They are a) Lord 
of the 8" b) planet in 8" c) Planet aspecting the 8" d) lord of 22™ 
drekana d) Lord of the 6n Navamsa from the Moon e) A planet who is 
Atisatru (doubly inimical) to the 8 lord. Any one these is capable of 
causing death. 2na, 7” lord, 8h and 12h lords are all killer planets or 


major. Sometimes lord of Lagna give yoga and then kill the native. Let 
us examine the sloka 


(45) 


Table 1: Benefic and malefic planets for any ascendant: 


Lagna 


Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagitt. 
Copri 
Aquarius 


Pisces 


Benefic 


Sun.MarsJupiter 
Mercury, Saturn 
Venus, Saturn 
Sun, Mars, Jup. 
Sun, Mars, Jup. 
Venus 

Mars, Sat 

Sun, Moon, Jup 
Sun Mars 

Merc. Venus 
Mars Venus 


Moon, Mars 


Yogakaraka 
(mostfavourable) 


Saturn 


Neutral 


Moon 

Moon, Venus 
Moon, Merc. 
Moon, Jup. 


Moon 


Sun, Mere, Sat. 


Merc. Venus 
Mars, Sat. 
Jupiter 
Saturn 
Merc. Sat. 


Jup 


Malefic (unfavourable) 


Venus, Mercury, Saturn 
Moon Mars, Jupiter 
Sun, Mars Jupiter 
Merc., Venus, Sat 
Merc, Venus, Sat 
Moon, MarsJup. 

Sun, Moon Jup. 

Merc. Venus 

Moon, Merc, Venus, Sat 
Sun, Moon, Jup., Mars 
Sun, Moon, Jup. 


Sun, Mere, Venus, Sat, 


Kevalanam chapapanam dasau nidnanam Ky achat 
Kalpaniyam budhaih nrinam marakanam adarsani. 


Sometimes, the period of a malefic can bring about death. Where it is 
difficult to find the planet causing death, the Wiseman has to construct 
the time of death with the help of intuition. This is indicated by the 
words Kvacha and Kalpaniyam. Saturn becomes a first rate 
significator of death and also longevity. Balarista causing planets are 
*Moon in 8”, Mars in 7m, Rahu in 9", Saturn in Lagna, Jupiter in 3", Sun 
in 5", Mercury in 4" and Venus in 6m. when some of them are present in 
achart and the chart indicates longer life, planets will cause ill health. 
6" house Saturn aspects 3/8" houses and hence prolongs life. 


Zodiac Signs and Body Parts: 


Aries Head; 

Taurus face, throat; 

Gemini shoulder, arms, neck; 

Cancer heart, chest and breast; 

Leo upper part of the’belly or abdomen, back; 

Virgo lower part of the belly or abdomen waist and nerves; 
Libra Kidney, private parts, sexual organ, navel, urinary tract; 
Scorpio rectum and sexual organ; - 

Sagittarius hips, thighs; 

Capricorn knee; 

Aquarius legs; 

Pisces feet. 


The sign that is afflicted by the association of malefic planets will 
denote trouble in the part it represents. If theTord of the sign is also 
-afflicted, then the trouble will be more severe. Regarding the judgment 
of diseases, first the Kalpurush should be scrutinized using Aries as 
Lagna, More after this method reveals the truth. 


Role ofhouse: 


I" House head, brain and mind; 2” House face, eyes, nose teeth, 
tongue, mouth; 3" House ear, neck, throat, larynx, shoulders, hands, 


(47) 


arms and breath; 4" house lungs, chest and blood circulation; 5n House 
upper part of the belly, liver, spleen, gallbladder, pancreas, duodenum; 
6n House navel regions, waist, the spinal cord, lower part of the belly 
and nerves. 7" House reproductive organs (uterus, ovaries), kidney, 
bladder, prostate, urinary tract, female sexual organs and breath; gs" 
House Rectum, private parts, male sexual organ, blood, anus, external 
genitals; 9n House hips, thighs; 10" House knees, skin and bone; 11" 
House legs breathand also ears; and 12" House Feet and eyes. 


When a house or its lord is afflicted or when both of them are afflicted 
by malefics, then that part of the body represented by that house will be 
affected or diseased. For example, ifthenative's Ascendant is Aries and 
it is afflicted or if thelord of a Dushsthana or evil house is located there, 
then the native will definitely suffer from headache or from diseases of 
the head because the sign Aries or the 1" house or thé Ascendant 
represents the head. The nature of the trouble in the part of the body and 
its severity depend on the severity of the affliction, that is, on the 
number and strength of the afflicting planets and their nature. 


Planets and Organs: 
Different planets control different parts of the body as follow:- 


Sun: Eyes, blood, circulatory system, stomach, brain, skin, 
head, bones, thyroid. 

Moon: Bronchial system, digestive system, mind, brain, breast, 
blood, left eye, uterus. 

Mars: Blood, genitals (male), neck, bone-marrow, head, 
muscular system, rectnm. 

Mercury : Brain, respiratory system, organs of speech, chest, nervous 
system, skin, gall bladder, navel, pancreas, nose, 
parathyroid. 

Jupiter: Liver, arteries, hip, ears, brain, spleen, thighs, fat, tongue, 
pancreas. 


(48) 


Venus: 
Saturn: 


Rahn: 
Ketu: 


Uranus: 


Neptune 


Pluto: 


Planets 


Kidney and urinary tract, eye-sight; face, glands in general, 
ovaries, gonads, neck, thyroid, throat, hair. 


Skin, bones, knees, legs, eee teeth. Joints and 
ligaments. 


Feet, act of breathing, spine. 
abdomen. 


Hysteria, paralysis, ‘mental rearrangement, - abnormal 
growth, premature. delivery, palpitation; organs, sudden 
and spasmodic complaints, operations, wounds, health 
disorder for excess involvement in profession. 


: Eyetrouble, skin problems, allergy, insanity, drug habits, 
hallucinations, paralysis, psychic diseases, coma, 
delirium. Can recover through God's grace , 


Long-lasting diseases, sex diseases like aids, not much 
conscious about diseases, can recover from illness through 
yoga and meditation. In 8" house Pluto forces the native to 
go bankrupt Certain persons disappear mysteriously and 
one never heard of again with Pluto in 8”. 


and Ailments :+, 


Sum: Diseases of the head, headache, heart disease, disease of the 


: Moon: 


eye (the right eye in case of male nativity afd the left eye in 
ease of a female nativity), strength Gnner Weakness), the 
diseases of the spinal cord and veins, shes of diseases of 
the bile. ' tet 


Diseases of the heart and lungs gynaecological problenis, 
mental ailments, emotional illnesseés;psy chiatric problems, 
eye diseases (left eye), anemia, blood dise&¥és; cough and 
* cold, watery:diseases, water retention like 6déma, ailments 
due to imbalance of Vata (such as biséd pressttre) or Kapha 
(phlegm), bronchial diseases; the right ey" fthe female, 
filariasis, dropsy, pleurisy, paralysis;“diatrhieea, vomiting, 


(49) 


Mars: 


Mercury: 


Jupiter: 


gastro-enteritis, enlargement of the spleen, typhoid fever 
etc. 


Diseases of the bile,"haemorhage (escape of blood from 
blood vessels), hot and inflammatory diseases, heat strokes, 
piles, fistula, tumor, wounds, accidents, injuries, burns, 
cuts, surgical operations, injury by weapons, boils, abscess, 
fracture, urinary diseases, deterioration of the blood or 
diseases of the skin or skin diseases, skin rashes, poisoning, 
high blood pressure, menstrual bleeding, abort'»ns and 
sudden rupture of organs. 


Nervous diseases, bad liver or diseases of the liver, 
stammering, failtire of memory, diseases of the tongue, 
epilepsy, diseases of the mouth or vocal cord, typhoid, 
whooping cough, insanity, diseases of the gall-blander etc. 


Baldness, blood pressure, thyroid problem, backache, 
apoplexy, hernia, diseases of the liver and lungs, disorders 
of fat metabolism, bronchial diseases etc. 


Venus: Diseases due to malnutrition, paralysis, deafness, breathing 


Rahu: 


trouble, dental pain or diseases of teeth, dyspepsia, 
melancholia (frustration and mental depression), falling of 
hair, mental depression, rheumatic pain and rheumatism, 
skin diseases, bone diseases, colic pain, arthritis, cancer, 
chronic lingering diseases, diseases of old age and terminal 
stages of diseases, illnesses causing wasting of the body like 
tuberculosis. 


Disease of the digestive system, liver, breathing trouble, 
catarrh, acute pain, diseases of the bone, enlargement of 
spleen, cutaneous diseases such as ring worm, eczema, 
leprosy, diseases arising from imbalance of Vata (wind) and 
Kapha (phlegm), bad swelling, tumour, serpent bite, 
aberration of mind, schizophrenia, hallucinations and 
illusions, asthma, dental diseases, weakness and diseases 


(60) 


arising due to too much indulgence in sex and immoral acts. 


Ketu: Diseases not detectable by Doctors ,mental restlessness, 
anxiety, diseases due to sudden fear, colic pain, diseases of 
a the chest and heart, epidemics, skin diseases, fever, eye 
diseases, wounds, pain in the belly, diseases of the stomach, 
pain the body, accident, undiagnosed diseases, queer 
diseases, modern diseases like HIV infections etc. 


Iil-health and diseases are caused by imbalance of Vata (wind), Pitta 
(bile) and Kapha (phlegm) according to Ayurveda. 


The planets responsible for Vata, Pitta and Kapha are as follows: 
*Bile or Pitta Sun and Mars: 


Kapha (phlegm) and Vata (wind) the Moon and Saturn 

Karaka for Vata (wind), Kapha (phlegm) and also bile (Pitta) Mercury. 
*Karaka for Kapha (phlegm) Jupiter and Venus 

Karka of Vata (wind) is Rahu 

A pitta constitution individual will have inflammation (meningitis) or 
‘injury (head injury) when the appropriate dasa and transits occur. A 
Kapha constitution will respond with increased secretions and swelling 
(cerebral edema meningocoel) and a vata constitution person with 
paralytic stokes or vascular catastrophes (cerebral thrombosis). The 
table 2 will show the responses of Vata, pitta and kapha in anatomical 
sites of diseases: 


Table 2 : Diseases of various ascendants 


Site Vata Pitta Kapha 
Head . Thrombosis of celebral Meningitis, Brainodema 
vessels encephalitis 
Neck Vocal cord, Palsy Laryngitis, pharyngitis Tonsils, goiter 
Chest Bronchial asthma Bronchitis, pneumonia Pleurisy 
Abdomen Chronic irritable bowel, | Appendicitis, rupture _—_ Ascites, 
gall stones of bowels obesity, tumors 
Legs Buerger's diseases; Osieomylitis Filariasia 


Raynaud's diseases 


(1) 


According to Varahamihir if one is born in first drekanna it indicates 
the area between head and neck, 2™ Drekanna between neck and navel 
and 3 a drekanna shows the ones below navel. 2™to 6" houses refer to 
the left side, 8" 12" houses refer to the right side. 3:a house rules the 
right hand, 11" house rules the left hand. Taurus and 2™ house rule the 
right leg and }2"house Pisces rule left leg. If the 2n1 house, Taurus, 
lord of 2“ house and Saturn are afflicted the fracture of bone will be in 
the right leg (for right leg 12 house, 12"lord Saturn and Pisces should 
be afflicted). 4°/8°/12" house control blood, 2"/6"/10" houses control 
flesh and bone, Is, 5", 9n are bile producers. 3°/7"/11" control our 
breathing Systems, all of them are airy signs in the zodiac (Gemini, 
Libra, Aquarius) Kapha Ascendants are ruled by Venus, the Moon and 
Jupiter. The signs ruled by Mercury and Saturn are Vata; Aries, 
Sagittarius, Leo are Pitta in nature. 6" and 8* lords during their major or 
sub period or the planets posited in 6"/8" house produce major sickness 
in life. 
GOLDEN RULES OF HEALTH HAZARDS 


1. As Rahu is the Karaka for Vata and the 5” house governs the 
belly, Rahu in the 5" causes windy Gikeases and acute 
gastroenteritis. 


2: As Saturn is the Karaka of Kapha and Vata, Saturn in the oie 
makes the native suffer from dyspepsia. 


3. As 5" house rules the belly, a malefic planet occupying the 5” 
and the 5" lord located with or hemmed in between malefics 
will be responsible for diseases in the belly. 


4, If the lord of the 5" house is in the 8m house with the 8" lord or if 
it is the inimical sign or is debilitated or is eclipsed, then also 
diseases in the belly are indicated. 


5. If the 5* sign and its lord or the 5" house and its lord are afflicted 
by Rahu then it would be a case of heart attack. If they are 
afflicted by Saturn and by the lord of the sign occupied by 


(52) 


Saturn, then it would be a case of dyspepsia and indigestion. If 
they are afflicted by Mars and Ketu or by the lords fo the signs 
occupied by Mars and Ketu, it would be a case for operation or 
injury to the belly. Ketu near the natal Venus in transit, killed 
Mahatma Gandhi. 


If the 12"house, 12" lord, 12" Rasi or sign (Pisces) and its lord 
Jupiter are all afflicted by both Mars and Ketu or by Mars as 
lord of the sign occupied by Ketu or by both, then the feet may 
have to be amputated. 


According to one school, the 5" rules the heart as well as belly, 
while the 4 rules lungs and its problems. 


If the lord of a Dusthana (lord of 6"; 8h and 12” houses) is in the 
Ascendant, then the native will suffer from diseases indicted by 
that planet. The native's health will suffer if the lord of the 
Ascendant is placed in a Dusthana (6",8", and 12" house). 


If the lord of the Ascendant is placed in a Dusthana and the lord 
of Dusthana is in the Ascendant, then also the native will suffer 
from diseases indicated by both Ascendant and Dusthana lords. 
If the Ascendant is aspected by a Dusthana lord, or if the 

Ascendant lord and the Dusthana lord aspect each other or if 

they are placed together in a Rasi or house, then the native will 

suffer from diseases indicated by such planets. 


If a weak malefic planet is placed in the 6* then during the dasa 
of 6" lord and that malefic planet, the native will suffer from 
diseases like colic pains, consumption or bile and seminal 
troubles. 


The 6” is the primary house of health and disease. If the 6" is 
occupied by Saturn and Mars and is aspected by the Sun and 
Rahu and the lord of the Lagna is weak, the native suffers from 
some chronic diseases. 


Rahu and Sun in 4" Atrophnic condition of the skin, in which 


(53) 


13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


the skin becomes dry, inelastic, wrinkled. 


Venus and Saturn in 8" In case of illness, ailment or disease or 
injury recovery would be longer and would cost substantially. 
The native may be involved in smuggling, trading for immoral 
purposes, mischief in import and export. 


Mars and Venus in 8m They suffer from sex diseases. When 
Mars or Venus is the 2m lord, the individual transmits own 
complaint of sex oriented trouble to the spouse or those who 
indulge with that person in cohabitation. 


Mars and Saturn in 8" They are vulnerable to disturbed 
digestive systems and become fat, more so in the belly and 
waist. Women having this combination must avoid 
cohabitation after completion of 5" month of pregnancy. Young 
kids, from infancy to adulthood have the risk of repeated falls, 
minor injuries but leading to bone fracture too. 


Mars and. Rahu in 8" They have tendency or desire for 
unconventional sex. They are very secretive in their acts, 
actions and ambitions. They may commit cold blooded 
murders or some other similar barbaric act. Invariably it 
provides obesity even ordinary fever or minor injury makes 
them exhibit great pain than actuality. 8 house is the house of 
immunity; . 

Satur and Rahu in 8* — The lower portion of the body 
becomes overweight. Such type of ladies are frequently seen in 
the society. They do not have much recovery power. Scandals 
and defamation surfaces out in their lives. 


Saturn and Ketu in 8m It leads a wound to go septic or formation 
of gangrene and in comparison to Rahu makes recovery very 
much delayed and expenditure oriented. 


Sun and Mars in 8" Something extra care about health, 
accidental injury. or multiple injuries (specially by fire, 


(54) 


20. 


2). 


22. 


23. 


25. 


electricity, fall from a height and attack by a thief or robber). 
¢ IIIness and diseases including ulcers (and cancerous trouble not 
ruled out) loss of pregnancy. Blood pressure and purity of blood 
should be checked upto 60 yrs. It causes excess bleeding. The 
individuals becomefirst victim in accident of earthquake. 


Moon and Saturn in 82 When Saturn passes 4°/8" house of 
Moon, there are chances of an accidental injury. If Aries, 
Cancer, Leo or Scorpio becomes 47or 8 the injury would be 
serious. In case of Taurus, Scorpio, Leo and Pisces the injury, 
whether of one or both legs would leave a limp in walking as an 
aftereffect. 


If Saturn is in the 6* house with Gulika are aspected by the Sun, 
Rahu and Mars and is neither in association with nor aspected 
by any .benefic planet, then the native suffers from cough, 
asthma, consumption etc. 


If the Moon is in a watery sign in the 6* and the 6" lord is also 
located in a watery sign aspected by Mercury, the native suffers 
from urinal troubles. If the lord of the 6* is weak in Lagna or 
Mars is in Lagna, the native suffers from trouble in the head or 
in the face and suffers from colic pains etc. One will suffer ill- 
health during adverse Dasa and transits. One will suffer ill- 
health during the period of the 6*, 8* or 12* houses and also 
during periods of Maraka lords and planets and also during 
periods of malefic planets. One will suffer ill-health during the 
periods of planets associated with Rahu or Ketu. Dasa of two 
retrograde planets bring severe health hazards. 


Moon and Rahu in 8n Homosexual or lesbian tendency. They 
, also suffer from hernia, piles or diabetes. 


Moon and Ketu in 8n Repeated diseases of digestive system, 
dyspepsia, dyslexia, diarrhoea and dysentry. 


Sun and Saturn in 12" Illness, injury and disease concerning 


(55) 


26, 


27. 


28. - 
29, 


30. 


* bone structure of the entire body, including the skull. Therefore 


brain injury ‘or:any ailment or disease related tothe brain is 
direct concem of Saturn. Medical treatment takes very long time 
and patient as well as the family must not become impatient with 
due or undue tengthy period of treatment. They love to become 
criminals. Because of presence of Sun in 12", the individual gets 
apprehended at some stage or sooner or later and is brought to 
book in the normal course of law. 


Sun and Ketu in 12” It causes mild type trouble to the eyes, 
hearing power, slight stammering, any kind of nasal ailment. It 
is 8° from 5". So education of children suffers. 


Saturn-Mars in 12" theré is a chance of loss of the first child. It 
is 99.99% true. This combination is capable of causing injury 
of own progeny or other members of the family in any kind of 
accident, fire, violent clashes within family. It causes loss in the 
purchase and sale of properties. Eyes will suffer when Venus is 
also afflicted. 


Amere conjunction of Satum and Mercury (except when one of 

them is exalted or in own sign) is a sure signal for breathing 

troubles. *: ; 

Conjunction of Mars, Sun in Lagna is a sure > sign of blood 

pressure problems. 

Childhood .diseases : Life in. this world commencing with 

dangerous disease is rather very unfortunate. The following 

unfortunate malefic combinations are rather unfortuiate where 

the childhood i is full with diseases, miseries etc. 

a. The dasa of severe afflicted 8° /8" lord (vimsottari) 
commencing at birth. 

b. As per KCD, the Dasa of Deha and Jeeva Rasi cavane a 
malefic being the first dasa. 


, c. Ascendant lord with an evil planet is 6°/8"/12" ftise: 


~ 66) 


d. Lord of Ascendant in deep debilitation. 
e. Lord of ascendant involved in an eclipse at birth. 


f. The lord of first dasa (of any scheme) j oining the Sun in the 
same quarter of asterism. 


Example 3. Deaf, dumb, cannot walk since birth : 
DOB 11-08-1992, 23=30, Ghaziabad. Birth Chart : Aries, 
Lagna; Taurus Mars; Gemini Ketu; Cancer Sun Mercury (R), 
Leo Jupiter, Venus; Sagittarius, Rahu; Capricom - Saturn, 
Moon 7°10' Balance Sun .lyr.3m 9d. 


If Moon afflicts Sun, there will be 
defects, deformities and diseases 
pertaining to the physical body. If 
the Sun afflicts the Moon, there 
will be affliction to the brain 
resulting in mental retardation, 
lunacy, dullness, epileptic 
condition etc. Thus the mutual 
affliction can result in "unhealthy 
brain in an unhealthy body”: Such 
a man can always be a substandard object in this competitive 
world. This is specific aspect of affliction to the Moon or the 
Sun. If the Moon occupies a Kendra 1,4,7 & 10 with respect to 
Sun, the affliction will be maximum giving Adhama Yoga, 
producing less wealth, less wisdom etc to the native, 6/8 
relationships of Moon - Jupiter and Saturn Jupiter added 
fuel to the fire. For a glorious life Saturn should be aspected 
"by divine Jupiter. Many polio patients have Moon and Sun in 
opposition. In this chart the native is deaf, dumb, crippled since 
birth. Cannot walk also: He started his life with afflicted Deha 
Rasi Cancer dasa with balance 8 yrs 1 m 6 d. Here Deha Rasi is 
Cancer, Jeeva = Pisces. Both Deha and’Jeeva lords are not free 
from placement related blemishes. Jeeva lord has moved to 6” 


(57) 


house from their natal positions. I have already claimed in my 
earlier book "Twin 8* house of the zodiac" (Alpha Publication, 

. in Press) that KCD is the most accurate dasa in forecasting 
dooms day of life. As per KCD, the prophesies of sages came 
true in the life of the unfortunate soul. He started his life with 
Deha Rasi, this sign and its lord are afflicted by Saturn. Jeeva 
Rasi lord Jupiter is aspected by Mars (8* lord). Both Deha and 
Jeeva signs are afflicted by Saturn. His Deha sign is occupied 

' by retrograde 6" lord Mercury is direct aspect to Saturn. When 
678m lords occupy either Deha or Jeeva sign, Goddess Laxmi 
never visits such a person. Here 6n lord in Deha sign did enough 
damage to this unfortunate soul. When 6n lord is retrograde, 
litigations in life mounts. Where Kendras of 6n lord are 
occupied by Saturn, Rahu or Ketu such a native soaks himself 
in the ocean of litigations. These natives even visit prison. God 

, has imprisoned him for life robbing him even walking power, 
Afflicted Deha and Jeeva sings with their afflicted lords made 
his life a  cupful of sorrows. , 


Blood is ruled by 4th house Karaka planets are Moon and Mars. 
When 4* house, Moon and Mars are afflicted one is sure to 
suffer from blood diseases. Blood cancer occur when 4°/8"712" 
house and Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces are afflicted. When 6" Jord 
or 11" lord aspect his own sign, one's disease may be subdued 
by suitable and timely treatment. 


When both Deha and Jeeva signs (as per KCD) are occupied by 
malefics or evil lords, one will have to face frequent dangers of 
diseases, misfortunes, miseries etc. One should examine Deha 
and Jeeva signs. 


The Sun and a malefic in the 7h indicate disorder of blood 
vessels to the native. 


Mercury in the 6” house aspectd by Saturn can lead in deafness 


(68) 


35. 


36. 


37. 


38. 


39. 


40. 


41. 


42. 


43. 


44. 


45. 


or ear related problems. 


If Ketu transits the sign occupied by natal Venus, there will be 
insurmountable troubles in respect of one's health and 
happiness. 


Should all the three fiery sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius) be 
occupied by malefics and or retrograde benefics, the subject 
will be exposed to danger though fire. 


In case of birth in Scorpio ascendant, Rahu in 9n house and 
Moon in 7" house will cause delirious (vitiation of three bodily 
homours, ledge to possible death) during childhood. 


Rahu and Jupiter in separate trines from the ascendant will 
cause serious debacles in Rahu dasa or Jupitér dasa. 


IfKetuand Saturn joinin a movable sign at birth, the native will 
have a thin body. 


The Moon and Rahu joining in the ascendant in aspect to Saturn 
or Mars will involve the subject in danger through water, fire, 
poison etc. 


A malefic planet in the ascendant with the aspect of the lord of 
67or 8 will cause poverty and sickness 


The three fiery signs ill occupied should be profitably noted in 
the context of danger through fire giving emphasis to their 
being Deha Rasi, Jeeva Rasi and 6" house. 


Saturn in the 8” house or aspecting 8" house is an indication 


relating to difficulties in rectum. In case of female it can cause 
difficulties concerning ovary. 


Ascendant hemmed between Saturn and Mars indicate major 
bodily troubles to the native. When Deha Rasi is hemmed 
between malefics physical infelicity will only multiply 


If Rahu at birth is in a sign Owned by Jupiter and when Jupiter 
himself transits such a sign, some evils will occur to the native. 


69) 


46. 


47. 


48. 


49. 


50. 


51. 


52. 


53, 


54. 


55. 


56. 


57. 


Nodes in 2nd, 7”, 8*, 12” act as marakas if they are associated 
with 2“/or 7” lord. ' 


If the lord ofascendant is combust, one will never have sound 
health. 


Ifthe lord of the 8" house is in the 7in house without the aspect of 
a natural benefic planet, the subject will be troubled by piles. 


If thelord of ascendantis with the lord of 6” house, the subject 
will have poor health. 

An afflicted Mercury causes skin diseases. 

Jupter aspected by adverse Mars mean troubles from 
inflammation of stomach. Liver enlargement is there when 
Jupiter is aspected by 8* lord. 

Walking difficulties will arise when Saturn aspect 3” house and 
3" lord is ill placed. 

All round evils occur when lord Lagna is in rapt conjunction 
with 6” lord Mars. Cancer is a sure possibility. 


Affliction of 7 house, 7" lord by 6* lord is a sure case of kidney 
disorder (TO A, July 1996 P13). When Taurus, Libra and Venus 
are afflicted it provides gevere kidney disorders. 


‘One should not start life with 6°/8"/12" lord's dasa at birth. 


Should it so happen, one's childhood will register a lot of ups 
and downs and one will find it quite difficult to stabilize in later 
dasas (TOA Jan. 1996 P 3) c 


If the. lord of 3 house falls in a decante ruled by Mars, the 
subject will incure danger or disease concerming his legs/arms. 


Longevity and freedom from diseases are generally assured if 
the lord of the ascendant is placed between any two of 
unaffiliated Mercury, Venus and Jupiter. No other planet should 
however intervene in this combination by way of company. 


(60) 


58. If Satnrn is in the 5"/9" house along with another malefic, the 
person will suffer from many diseases, except when Saturn is a 
Yogakaraka. 


39. Sun in the 7* house.along with a malefic will cause blood 
diseases to the native. 


60. a) Urinary disorders such as gleet, diabetes and gonorrhoea will 
occur to the person having the Sun in 5m honse in association 
with Venus and Saturn. b) Mars & Saturn in 10" will do the 
same thing. 

61.  IfMoon and Venus join the 8" house the subject will incur rectal 
disorders. 


62.. If Venus or Mars occupy the 2na house, there will be serious ear 
trouble to the native. 


63. If the ascendant contains eclipsed Sun, the native will behave 
like a devil and will have early loss of eyes. 


64. , If Mars is in the 5” house, one of the native's children will incur 
blood disorder 


65. — 1f Saturn in the 5* or 7* house will cause fear from evil spirits, 
abdominal disorders and mental aberration. 


66. The snb period of a female planet (Moon, Venus and Ketu) in 
the main period of a natural malefic will be a source of many 
unhappy events. 


67. Ifthe 4" lord is.in the 8" honse, in nnion with Ketu, the subject 
will be endangered though weapons. 


68. If Mercnry is in 7” from Mars, the subject will be tall in statnre. 


69. _. Retrograde Mars in the 127876th house will cause major losses 
thongh fire. 


70. Mercury in a dual sign aspected to Saturn or Mars will lead to 
epilepsy. : 


1) 


71. 


72. 
73. 


TA. 


75. 


70. 


77. 


78. 


79. 


80. 


I. 


82. 


83. 


The Sun in the 3" house or 7” house in association with a 
malefic planet will be dangerous to the life span of the spouse. 


Ifthe 3“ lord is in the 5” one will enjoy wealth and longevity. 


If Rahu is in the 7 house along with Venus one will suffer from 
sexually transmitted disorders. 


If the 12” house is occupied by 10" lord, the native will have 
many illicit ties. 


Should be 12" and 6" houses be occupied by malefic planets, 
one will be a victim of severe vices. Saturn and Mars in these 
houses will produce severe health hazard (exp. 4) 


Mars in the 4* house in aspectto Moon or Vice versa will lead to 
blood disorders of a major nature. 


If both 6” and 11" houses are occupied by malefic planets, one 
will have severe health problems. 


Shonld Mars join one of the planets viz. the Moon, Sun and 
Jupiter, the subject will be victim of some major ill health or 
litigations. There is no way for him to escape from this kind of 
an event. This is very true for Gemini Ascendant. 


If the6u lord is related to 8" lord, sorrow though diseases, thefts 
etc will be clear possibility. 


Dasa of Saturn in 4”, J upiter in 6", Mars and Rahu in 5m, that of a 
planet in the last degree, and that a lords of 6,8,12 are very 
troublesome and painful (TOA, Sept, 1997 P 33) 


6” lord in debility in aspect to two retrograde planets, the native 
will conceive drastic health problem (TOASept. 1997P 9) 


When Drekkana ascendant falls in a sign ruled by Mercury, 
Saturn one will be troubled by epilepsy, coma, rheumatism, 
arthritis or paralysis. 


Moon in ascendant, 8", 12h or 7m house and hemmed between 


(62) 


84. 


88. 


89. 


. malefics will confer premature death. 


Bilious complaints are: blood disorder, jaundice, digestive 
disorders, disease of the eyes, sexual disease, urinal and other 
kidney ailments, brain fever, lack of mental balance (madness 
etc.) , loss of consciousness, epilepsy, menstrual disorders, 
anameica etc Phlegmatic disorders are: cancerous ailments, 
tuberculosis and other lungs/breathing problems, pneumonia, 
typhoid and such other dangerous feveis, heart, throat, 
ailments etc. Windy" disorder are: rheumatism, arthritis, 
paralysis, elephantiasis, gas troubles, any swelling, joint pains 
including spondylysis/spinal problems, trouble through spirits, 
dead souls etc. (TOA Sept. 1996P 5) 


8n lord in 6"/8"/12" will give various diseases. 
Moon in the ascendant afflicted by malefics cause diseases. 


Taurus or Libra occupied by malefic planets will produce 
diseases. 


One will be ever troubled by diseases if the lord of the 
ascendant joins the 6” lord in 6"/8°/12”, 


The ascendant lord in the ascendant with 6°/8"/12" lord will 
give lasting illness. 


A malefic in the 5" house while the lord of the ascendant is in 
the 8m house will cause a major disease. 


The 5*, 9" or 12" occupied by a malefic and aspected by Saturn 
will cause disease. 


Three malefics joining in one sign will produce disease. 
If6" lordisin 7”, one will incur many diseases. 


.Venus in Aries, Leo or Sagittarius joined by .Saturn will 
eproduce bilious disorders. Mars in 8m or in 1" with a malefic 
will do the same. Sun in ascendant + lord ofascendantin Lagna 


(63) 


will give bilious disorders. pee 


95. Mars in 6* house aspected by another malefic and begetting 
malefic divisions will cause blood disorders. 


96. Saturn in Aries along with 6* lord will cause windy disorders 
Saturn in 7" and Jupiter in Lagna will do the same job. Saturn 
in Ascendant while Mars is in the 57779t will cause windy 
diseases, weak Moon and Saturn in 12 will cause windy 


disorders. 

97. When 9* lord is related to 8" lord, there may be serious 
accidents. 

98. Sun, Mars and Saturn in 7n will produce fistula, rheumatism, 
piles and leprosy. 

99. Rectal disorders will come to pass when the ascendant lord is in 
a sign owned by Mars or Mercury in aspect to an inimical 
planet. 


100. Saturn in 8" house will cause disorder of the feet. 


101. An afflicted Jupiter in the 12m house will cause sexually 
transmitted diseases. 


102. The Moon in Leo hemmed between malefics or afflicted by 
malefics from somewhere else will lead to cardiac disorders. 


103. 11"lord in3" will cause cardiac disorders. 


104. Dog bites : a) If Saturn is in the 2nd house is aspected by a 
malefic, the native should guard against dogs. b) Saturn 
associated or aspected by 2™ lord. c) If Saturn as the lord of 6 
house is associated with Mars there is a danger of death though 
dog. d) If Saturn is placed in his enemy camp without aspect of 
abenefic, there is danger through dogs. f) If Saturn as 2™ lord 
conjoin with Mars, there is danger though dogs i.e. itis possible 
for Capricorn native. 


105. Ear diseases: a) If 6" lord be in 6m, 7m or 11" houses from 


(64) 


106. 


107 


Ascendant and Mercury occupies 4 place from Saturn, the 
native will suffer from deafness. b) At night birth Mercury in 
6m, Venus in 5 will make the native deaf.c) If Mercury, Venus 
occupy 3rd house in Gemini or Virgo, the right ear of the native 
may suffer.d) 6n lord + Mercury, aspected by Saturn can cause 
deafness.c) If Mercury + Sun + Saturn are in 3 or 11* - 
deafness. f) 6” lord aspected by Saturn and Mercury, partial 
loss of hearing. g) Moon, Mercury combination in 3711" 
corresponding to Gemini or Virgo may trouble the native with 
watery discharge from the ear. h) Moon and Mercury in Aries 
or Scorpio in 37] 1m from Lagna would be responsible for pus 
and pain in the ear. i) Mars, Mercury in 3/11" from Moon or 
Lagna, the native may have to undergo surgical operation in 
the ear. j) From Ascendant or Moon only for Gemini and Virgo 
ear disease will be caused if Mars or Saturn are posited there k) 
Moon + Mars + Mercury in 37or 11” and Ketu in 7* Surgical 
intervention in possible in the ear. 


When Sun is weak it indicates defective blood circulation and 
imbalance in blood chemistry, weak Mercury may indicate 
defective nervous system, weak Moon may indicate weak 
mind, association of Moon + Satur or when Saturn aspects 
Moon it may suggest iron loss and Windy imbalance in the 
systemic. Take lemon juice with honey, which helps iron 
absorption. 


Conjunction of Mars with Venus at birth does indicates the 
need for the surgery of the kidney. 


108 Excess hair For good Mars, Less hair For poor Mars, Short 


height Unfavourable Sun, Tallness of body for strong Sun, 
Fat body For good Jupiter; Good personality for strong Venus, 
Very slim body weak Saturn, Spiritualism for strong Ketu, 
strong Rahu, means less pain in the body. 


109 Dangers diseases set in the organ where 678712* lords are 


(65) 


110. 


111. 


112. 


113. 


114. 


posited in the birth chart. Severity increases, if they are 
afflicted by other malefics. Suppose 8m lord in Virgo. It is 
further aspected .by Mars. So a disease of abodoman is 
indicated. 


For low blood pressure use silver ring on a Monday, for high 
blood pressure use copper ring on a Sunday. 


Debilited lord of Lagna Leo Sun in Libra Ears trouble, Cancer 
Moon in Scorpio Dropsy, Aries Mars in Cancer trouble in the 
chest, Scorpio Mars in Cancer hips trouble Gemini Mercury in 
Pisces knees problem, Virgo Mercury in Pisces urinary 
troubles, Sagittarius Jupiter in Capricorn face and speech will 
suffer, Pisces Jupiter in Capricorn feet problem, Taurus Venus 
in Virgo belly problem; Libra Venus in Virgo trouble in feet; 
Saturn of Capricorn in Aries Chest problem; Aquarius Saturn 
inAries ear/respiratory problems 


For Leo, Sun is afflicted belly problem, for Cancer Lagna 
Moon is afflicted chest problem; Mars Aries Lagna is afflicted 
problem on the head, Mars & Scorpio afflicted problem of 
testicles, Mercury of Gemini afflicted arms, respiratory 
problem, Mercury of Virgo afflicted intestine and lower 
problemsof belly will suffer, Venus of Taurus afflicted throat 
problems, Venus of Libra afflicted kidney problems Saturn of 
Capricorn afflicted knees will suffer, Saturn of Aquarius 
afflicted lower position of leg will suffer, Jupiter of Sagittarius 
afflicted hips problem, loss of recovery: power, Jupiter of 
Pisces afflicted= feet will suffer. 


Debilitated Sun + Mars fire in the body. Debilitated Moon and 
Venus in 5* pleurisy. Venus + Moon are watery planets, 
debilitated Jupiter Swollen condition, debilitated Saturn 
severe pain in the body. Debilitated Mars in Lagna fire on the 
face. 


Insomnia : If 2m lord is placed in 12" with Mars or other malefic 


(66) 


HIS. 


planets violent night walk and sleep. The Sun causes sleep 
when there is no Sun, all living things sleep. So if there is 
affliction to the Sun or 12” from Sun, then one suffers from 
sleep disorders. Basically second house, 2™ lord should always 
be associated with Jupiter, Venus, Mercury and the Moon. In 
the case it is associated with Mars, Sun Saturn, Rahu, Ketu 
one's life will always be in turmoil. Such a person will be 
compulsive liar and will not enjoy good social status. 9m Jord in 
12” cause insomnia. Sleep in actually indicted by the 12* 
house. afflictions to the 12" house is bad as it will be 
impediment to smooth health. Affliction to Mars or 12" from 
Moon causes split personality, Affliction to Mercury and 12" 
from Mercury makes one miserly, affliction to Venus and 12m 
from Venus cause extravagance and sexual perversions. 
Afflictions of Jupiter and 12” from Jupiter implies Mata 
Bhedham (religious perversion or conversions), affliction of 
Saturn or 12” house of Saturn makes very repulsive habit of 
living, bad eating habits eating stale food, cold meat etc. Ifone 
has Dhanistha Nakshatra, Moon and Saturn in Kumbh Lagna 
the native will be fond of non-vegetarian food. The author has 
observed, if there is any malefic like Rahu, Saturn, Ketu, Mars 
in the 12” house of Sun, he will have surely insomnia. Sleep is 
crucial to maintaining your health. Without it you increase your 
susceptibility to an astonishing array of health problems, 
including heart disease. 


Disease is primarily controlled by the 6* house, 6m lord, Ketu 
and 6* house of Ketu. Mars, Sun and Saturn should not be 
placed in 6* house from Ketu, as they give recurring diseases, 
Mars if posited in 6* from Ketu and Mars is afflicted, loss of 
limb occurs. 


If 2nd lord is placed in the II” house, the native will undergo 
miseries due to ill health during childhood and with the march 


(67) 


of time he will be endowed with health problems throughout. 


117. If both 378* houses have malefics, or their lords are ill placed, 
the person is either not in the right frame of mind or is of an 
imbalanced nature 


118. planets in the 6* house : Sun there is complain in the stomach 
and may go mad. Moon would cause cold, eye or any other 
cyclical disease, Mars Fever, bleeding, shivering, Mercury 
will give body suffocation, Jupiter heart disease, state's 
premshment, hyper pigmentation of neck and intestinal 
diseases: Venus will cause insomnia, hiccups, di: zase of 
rectum and queasiness, Saturn will give diseases of feet and 
phobias, Rahu and Ketu_ will cause disease due to poison, 
infection and give fainting. 


119. Rahu and the Moon in the 2™ house will cause delirium and also 
serious diseases led by cold. 


120. Saturn in the 8* or the 6* or the ascendant aspected by Mars will 
cause windy and blood disorders. 


121. The Moon in the 4* house along with a malefic will cause 
phlegmatic disorders (affliction to heart, lungs etc.) 


122. the Sun or the Moon in the 4* house and afflicted by Satumwill 
cause heart and lung diseases. 


123. Saturn joining the Sun anywhere will lead to phlegmatic 
(cardiac) illness. The concemed aphorism is : “Mandaga 
Marthanda Yoga Kaphatho nipeeditah". 


124. Vitiation of blood will come into force if Saturn and Mars are in 
the 7*, 12", 6” or the ascendant, receiving the Sun's aspect. 


125. Combustion, or placement in enemy's sign or in debility, of 
Mars, will lead to blood disorders. 


126. Mars and Gulika joining in the 2n or the 8* house wil produce 
blood diseases. 


(68) 


127. 


128. 


129. 


130. 


131. 


132. 


133. 


134. 


135 


136 
137 


138 


139. 
140. 


141. 


142. 


Should the second lord be aspected by or conjoined with Mars, 
one will have blood disorders. 


One with Mars irt the 2“ house in aspect to the Sun will incur 
blood disorders. 


The Sun in the 7* house along with another malefic planet will 
cause stomach and blood problems. 


Jupiter joining the lord of the ascendant in 6"/8"/12" will cause 
intestinal diseases. 


The fifth house jointly occupied by the Sun, Venus and Saturn 
will cause urinary diseases. 


Mars in the 7* house while the ascendant contains the Sun will 
lead to urinary diseases. 


Mars in the 10" house aspected by Saturn will cause urinary 
diseases. 


Epilepsy, dysentery or lung tuberculosis will be the result when 
the ascendant lord is in the 6* house in the company of Venus. 


The ascendant lord receiving the joint aspects of Mars and 
Saturn will cause epilepsy, dysentery and lung tuberculosis. 


Mercury in Cancer will lead to lung tuberculosis or epilepsy. 


Severe dryness of tongue will come to pass if the Sun and the 
Moon exchange their Rasis/Navamsas: 


The Moon in the 6"/12" while Saturn is in the ascendant, will 
cause breathing problems. 


Satur and Rahu in the 2nd house will cause constipation. 


Ketu in the 5* position from Karakamsa Lagna indicates 
constipation. 


Dropsy will result if the Moon in the Aries while Saturn is in 
Cancer. 


The Sun and the Moon in the 11" house while Rahu is in the 


(69) 


143. 


144. 


145. 


146. 
147. 


148. 


149. 


150. 
151. 


152. 


153. 


154. 


155. 
156. 


ascendant will endanger the native in his 19" year on account 
of dropsy. 


Saturn in the 4* house will cause disorders of the spleen and 
loss of eyesight. 


Saturn in the ascendant will lead to splenary disorders and loss 
ofhappiness. 


The Moon longitudinally placed between Mars and Satum will 
cause breathing problems. 


The lord of the 7th aspected by malefics will affect one's spleen. 


For a day birth, afflicted or combust Saturn in the 4* house will 
afflict one's spleen. 


The lord of the ascendant in the 7* house in aspect to a malefic 
planet will lead to ailments of the spleen. 


For a night birth during dark half, the lord of the ascendant 
being in the 6* house in combustion will affect one's liver. 


Malefics both in the 8* and 7" house will spoil one's spleen. 


Saturn and the Moon joining in Aquarius, Cancer or Scorpio in 
Navamsa will produce splenary disorders. 


- If the lords of the 6* and 12* exchange their houses, one will 


suffer from splenary troubles in the 15"/3 0* year. 


Internal abscess accompanied by diabetes will occur to a 
person having Jupiter in the 6n house in aspect to a malefic 
planet and obtaining a malefic's Navamsa. This Yoga can also 
lead to disorders of head and face. 


Mars and Venus in the 7” house will cause diseases through 
sexual union. 


Saturn in the 12" aspected by a malefic will cause piles. 


Mars in the 7*, and Saturn in the ascendant will lead to piles. 


(70) 


157 The lord of the 8* in the 7* house, afflicted exclusively by a 


162. 


163. 


165. 


166. 


167. 


168. 


malefic planet, will lead to piles. 
Mars joining the lord of the ascendant will cause piles. 


Scorpio as the ascendant and containing Mars unrelated to 
Jupiter or Venus will also cause giles. 


Mars in the ascendant along with the Sun and or the Moon 
during the concluding phase of New Moon (Amavasya) or Full 
Moon (Paurmima) will cause piles. 

If the birth is during night, and the Sun is in the Sn house 
hemmed between malefic planets (i.e. two malefics on either 
side), the person will incur sharp pains in his joints. 

Birth during day time while Mars is aspected by the Moon will 
cause severe joint pains. 

The Sun in the 12” and the Moon in the 6* house will cause 
severe joint pains 

One will suffer acute pains through diseases like "Visarpa" 
(meaning erysipelas or any similar spreading eruption) if the 
Sun, Moon and Mars are jointly in the 6m house. 

The Sun in the ascendant along with another malefic planet 
while Saturn and Mars are together in the 6n house or in the 8* 
house will lead to severe pain through diseases in the privities. 


Epilepsy will come to pass if a malefic planet is in the 6", 8* or 
the 12" house while Jupiter along with Privesha (an Upagraha 
or mathematical point) is in an angle from the ascendant. 


Mars and Saturn together in the 6* house or in the 8* house will 
lead to epilepsy. 


All malefics (i.e. Saturn, Sun, Mars and a node) in the 8 house 
while the Moon and Venus are together in an angle will cause 


epilepsy. 


(71) 


169. 


170. 


171. 


172. 


173. 


174, 


175. 


176. 


177. 


178. 


179. 


The Moon in conjunction with Saturn and receiving the aspect 
of Mars will produce epilepsy. 


The Moon being weak and placed in the 8* house along with 
Rahu will lead to epilepsy. 


The Sun, The Moon and Mars place anyway in the 8* house and 
the ascendant (i.e. both the house occupied by in any manner by 
these three planets any two in one of these places while the 
other is in the other place) and receiving malefic aspects will 
lead to epilepsy. 

Birth during an eclipse while Mars and Saturn are together in 
the 6* or the 8* house will cause epilepsy provided Jupiter is not 
in the ascendant. 5* or the 9* houses. 


Saturn, Mars and Rahu in 6°/8"/12" houses along with the 
Moon will lead to epilepsy (That is thee four planets can in any 
manner occupy one two or three of the said house). 


Saturn and Rahu together in the 8* house while another malefic 
is in strength anywhere will cause epilepsy.., 

With the Moon in the 8* house while the ascendant is occupied 
by Venus, one will suffer from epilepsy and other diseases. 
(What the other diseases is not mentioned in the original. But it 
should be interpreted that some nervous disorder will attack the 
subject.) 


Paralysis will come into force if the6* house hemmed between 
malefics is occupied by another malefic, without Jupiter's 
aspect. 


Saturn and the Moon being together will also cause Paralysis. 
The Moon in this Yoga should be ahead of Saturn. 


The Weak Moon in the ascendant along with Mercury will be a 
cause of mental malady. 


Gulika in the 7* house along with a malefic planet will cause 


(72) 


18]. 


182. 


183. 


184. 


185. 


186. 


187. 


188. 


19). 


mental malady. 


Mercury in the 3ra, 6*, 8* or 12* house along with a malefic 
planet will produce mental malady. 


The weak Moon in the ascendant, the 5in or the 9* house along 
with a malefic planet will lead to mental malady. 


Jupiter in the ascendant opposed either by Saturn or by Mars 
will cause mental malady. 


Saturn in the ascendant as Mars is in the 5*, 7*, or the 9" house 
will cause mental malady. 


Satum in the 12* house along with weak Moon will cause 
mental malady 


A benefic planet in the 8h house while the Moon and Rahu are 
in the 12" house will cause mental malady. . 


Mars or the Moon in the 5"/9" house while the Sun and Saturn 
are in order in the 12* house and the ascendant, will cause 
mental malady. 


Saturn and the lord of the 2 house being together and joining a 
malefic planet will cause mental malady. 


Mental sickness will occur due to royal displeasure (for 


government problems), if the 2” lord and Satur are jointly 
with the Sun. 


In the above Yoga, Mars replacing the Sun will lead to mental 
sickness due to vitiation of the temperament "bile". 


Should there be a planet in the third house identical with its 
debilitation or inimical sign, or should the third house occupant 
be in combustion, mental sickness will be due to some 
poisonous infection. But the third house should also be aspectd 
by a malefic planet. 


The ascendant should be a watery sign (i.e. Cancer, Pisces or 


(73) 


192. 


193. 


194. 


195. 


196. 


197. 


198, 


199. 


200. 


201. 


202. 


the second half of Capricorn) containing Jupiter and a malefic 
planet. As a result, the subject will be endangered through 
water. 


One will incur mental aberrations if the Moon and Mercury are 
together in an angle, but avoiding a benefic's Navamsa. 


The native will suffer from severe itches if the 2n house is a 
watery sign and contain both the Moon and Saturn. 


The Sun or the lord of the ascendant placed either in the 
ascendant or in the 4: house will cause severe itches. 


the 9* house occupied by the Moon along with a malefic planet 
will cause itches. 


Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces containing both the Moon and a 
malefic planet will deprive one of general happiness apart from 
causing leprosy. (Note: Combinations for leprosy can also be 
interpreted as unmanageable and clumsy skin eruptions.) 


Mercury, the Moon and a node (i.e. Rahu/Ketu) in the 
ascendant will cause leprosy. 

If Sagittarius is the ascendant containing the Moon in 
"Madhyamsa" (i.e. the Moon in the 5* Navamsa which is Leo) 
one will incur leprosy. But the Moon should be confederate of 
Saturn and Mars by conjunction/aspect. 

Let the Moon be in any sign in relation to Mars and Saturn. If 
the said Moon begets Capricorn, Pisces, Cancer or Aries 
Navamsa (TRIGA) the subject will be afflicted by 
leprosy. 

The Moon in any of the two first signs i.e. Aries or Taurus in 
union with Mars and Saturn will cause white leprosy. 

The Moon and Venus together in a watery sign (Cancer, Pisces 
and second half of Capricorn) will cause white leprosy. 


The Moon and the Sun together in Cancer. Scorpio or Pisces 


(74) 


203 


206 


210. 


211. 


212. 


213. 


216. 


will reveal leprosy. 


The lord of the ascendant in the 8* house along with a malefic's 
conjunction or aspect will cause leprosy. (in my view, the term 
"malefic" should read as "Saturn or Mercury"). 


Satum and a malefic together in the 12" house will cause skin 
eruption of the privities. 


If Mars and Saturn are together in the 4 house one will incur a 
dangerous disease leading to obstacles on consuming food. 


Venus in the 6* house aspecrted by a malefic will cuase spleen 
disorders.. 


Rahu in the 6* house aspected by a malefic will cause mental 
imbalance due to affliction by spirits, devils and the like. 


The 6* lord joining Jupiter that is pure in all respects will keep 
one's health in tact. 


The 6* lord joining Venus will give eye disorder or kidney 
disorders. 


The 6" lord joining Satum will reflect disorders like 
rheumatism and arthritis. 


The 6" lord joining Rahu or Ketu will cause abdominal 
disorders. 


The Moon and Saturn in the 8" house will cause' splenary 
disorders. 


The lord of the 6* house in the ascendant along with a malefic 
planet will lead to cancerous growth. 


The Sun and another malefic in the ascendant will cause head 
injuries. 

The Moon and a malefic planet in the ascendant will lead to 
facial injuries. 

Mars and another malefic planet in the ascendant will cause 


(75) 


throat disorders. 


217. Mercury and a malefic planet in the ascendant will cause heart 
problems. 


218. Jupiter and a malefic planet in the ascendant will cause 
disorders in the navel region. 


219. Venus and a malefic planet in the ascendant will cause eye 
disorders. 


220. Saturn and another malefic planet in the ascendant will cause 
diseases or injuries in feet. 


221. Rahu and another malefic planet in the ascendant will cause 
ulcer or deformity of the lips. 


222. Mars and the lord of the ascendent together in the 6* 8*, or 12" 
house will cause disorders of blood vessels or danger through 
weapons. 


223. If Mars is in the ascendant while Jupiter or Venus is found in the 
7* house, the native will be exposed to dangerous head injuries. 


224. The lord of the ascendant in the fifth (6*) house along with 
Mars and being related to another malefic planet, will lead to 
head-injuries through stones or weapon. 


225. Note ifthelord of the 6* house is in the 6*, 8* or 12" along with a 
significator planet (i.e. Sun father, the Moon mother, Venus 
spouse and so on so forth). Then the dasa of the significator 
planet or that of the dispositor of these two planets (i.e. the 
dasas of one lords of the three evil houses) will lead to diseases 
to the concerned relative (like father & Co). Notes: If during the 
dasa, the native's said relative is not in existence, the native will 
himself be troubled in respect of the limb indicted by the 
significtor planet (viz. the Sun eyes, heart, bones; the Moon 
eyes, blood, mind; Mars injuries, burs, blood; Mercury 
lunges, throat, skin, nerves, movements, brain; Jupiter ears, 
spleen, liver, intestines; Venus kidney, privities, uterus, eyes; 


(76) 


226. 


227. 


228. 


229. 


230. 


236 


Saturn rectum, bodily movements, feet; Rahu poison, fire, 
accidents, spirits, cancerous growth; Ketu bones, spine, 
poison, fire, spirits). 

In diseases causing Yogas, a relevant benefic aspected by 
another benefic will reduce the evils; but if a malefic planet 
aspects it, the intensity will increase. 


If the 6* house is occupied by an unaffiliated benefic while the 
lord of the 6m house is in an angle from the. ascendant, the 
subject will never incur diseases. He will be helpful to his 
relatives. 


The Sun and the Moon opposing each other will lead to sexual 
deficiency. 


if the lord of the 6* house is in an angle in aspect to a malefic 
planet, the person will be troubled by enemies and litigations. 
He may visit prison. 

"Many malefics" (say at least two malefics) in the 6" house will 
bring forth troubles through enemies and kinsfolk (this 
aphorism is stunningly true to the knowledge of the author). 


An exchange between the lord of the ascendant and the 6* 
house will produce troubles from enemies. 


Ifthe 6* lord is placed between two malefic planets, the subject 
will have troubles from his foes. 


If the 6* lord joins Gulika, Rahu or Saturn, troubles from 
enemies will arise. 


Weak Moon in the 6* house along with Satum will bring forth 
danger through water or dead souls. 


Mars in the 9* house will lead to danger through weapons or 
poison. 


If the 9* lord is in the 6* house in aspect to the lord of the 6* 


237. 


238. 


239. 


240. 


241. 


house, the person will be exposed to losses through thefts. 


The lord of the ascendant in the 8* house in aspect to the 6* lord 
will lead to troubles through one's kinsfolk (like family 
divisions and property disputes). 


If both the lord of the ascendant and the 6" house are in the 
ascendant, the person will be troubled by his kinsfolk. 


Should the lord of the 6n house be retrograde in the 8* house, or 
be in an inimical sign or in debility in the 8* house, the person 
will have many injuries on his body, but will have a large band 
ofkinsfolk. 


One's kinsmen will be destroyed if the 6n lord is with a malefic, 
or be in debilitation, inimical sign, or combustion, but in 
malefic divisions and without a benefic's aspect. 


Ifthelord of the 6 house is connected with Rahu or Ketu, there 
wi | 1 be danger through snakes. 


Ten most dangerous diseases of the 21" century which doctors fail to 
identify, 


Ketu in Ascendant and Neptune, Uranus, Pluto in the 8* produce 
unknown diseases in the body. I shall describe most ten dangerous 
diseases : 


1. 


Hepatitis C : Anyone who has blood transfusion may be 
attached by this dangers virus. Severe stomach crams, 
bleeding, pain or obstraction, vomiting are the symptoms, Late 
stageseriousliver infectionis found. 


Lupus : The common symptoms are arthritis hairfall and skin 
getting tanned easily. Pinkish red butterfly rashes develop on 
the face. 


Celiac diseases : Abdominal cramping and bloating, gas 
diarrhoea or constipation, unexplained anemia and mysterious 
weight loss 


(76) 


10. 


Colorectal cancer : Depression, hair loss, dry skin, horse 
voice, weight gain, women have 5 times more risk. 


Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) : Light 
headache, nausea, vomiting, blurring of vision, they feel they 
are whirling. 


Chlamydia : In case of females bleeding between periods, in 
case of males burning during urination or pain or swelling of 
testes. 


Sleep Apnoea : Unexplained day time sleepiness is the key 
sign. 

Aneurysm : Loss of consciousness blurred vision, vomiting 
etc. are symptoms 


Filnrosis : Those who drink black tea catches this disease. 
Milk in calcium binds with fluoride of tea. Fluoride patients 
should take fruits, vegetables and diary products. 


Hypothyroidism : It is a disease of ladies during pregnancy. 
Under active thyroid causes * this disease, Weight gain, 
tiredness, memory lapses etc are the symptoms. It is due to less 
thyroid hormone which affects metabolism. 


Use the Gems of Ascendant lord, 4m lord. and cat's eye for speedy 
recovery. Constipation should be removed. Pranayam and Yogas will 
help. I shall describe now an unformaturate case. 


Example 4. Life long suffering from 
Diabetes : DOB 04-03-1977, 6=45PM, 
Ludhiana. Leo Lagna, Moon 5 16; Libra 


Mercury, Pisces Venus; Taurus Jupiter, 
Cancer Saturn. 


She is suffering from diabetes from the 
age of 12 and went in coma in May 2006 


Rahu; Capricorn Mars; Aquarius Sun, s% 


(79) 


and in Aug 2006 she is firing for her life. First, I shall describe the 
mechanisms of Diabetes Mellitus: About 250 millions of people are 
suffering from diabetes in 2007, throughout the globe. Treatment 
should be started with drugs like sulfonylurea, thiazolidinediones and 
metaformin. Last stage is insulin. Once insulin therapy starts, it has to 
continue for life and that leads to allergy and physical weakness (TOI, 
20* Aug. 2006 P5). The blood of man contains a trace of glucose about 
0.07-0.12 percent. This trace, however is vital for the life of the cells. If 
the amount drops to 0.03 percent 30ppm) convulsions and death with 
result. In the disease diabetes mellitus, the concentration of glucose in 
the blood, reaches a level above 0.14 percent, and again death may 
result. In Greek, diabetes = 'to go through’, Mellitus = honey i. the 
patient passes a large amount of urine containing sugar. 


The disease is as old as civilization i.e. about 7000 yrs. Old. The 
pancreases is both an exocrine and an endocrine gland since it produces 
enzymes for digestion as well as important hormones. One hormone is 
insulin produced by the islets of lagerhans. Insulin, a protein material, 
helps to govern the rate at which blood sugar is absorbed and oxidized 
in the cells and stimulates the liver to produce more glycogen or sugar 
reserves. And excess of insulin in the blood increases the rate of 
oxidation of sugar and as the sugar disappears, there is a serious drop in 
blood sugar. The 2™ hormone produced by the pancreas, glucagons, a 
single peptide chain of 29 amino acids, stimulates the liver to increase 
the amount of a liver enzyme, phosphonus lose, which acts on liver 
glycogen and converts it to glucose. The two enzymes insulin and 
glucagons thus work together to maintain blood sugar balance. As the 
sugar levels rises, the kidneys take the extra load to excrete more and 
more sugar. In the advanced of diabetes mellitus, the patient will lapse 
into coma and die shortly after wards unless treated with insulin. 
Insulin was invented by the Canadian Doctors Dr. C.H. Best and Dr. 
FG Banting in 1922. It is a major killer disease of the present century. * 


Symptoms of diabetes are: 


¢ Sudden loss of energy and weakness in the body. 


(80) 


Excess thirst and frequency of urination 

Excessive hunger 

Sudden and unexpected loss of weight 

Boils and other suds infections in the body that do not disappear 
Unexplained pains (neuritis). 


Depression and obesity. Diabetes is a silent killer that kills one 
person every 10 seconds. Worldwide 3.2 million deaths are 
attributable to diabetes every year. At least one in ten deaths 

. among adults between 35-64 years old is due to diabetes. In India 
diabetes is growing at an epidemic rate in 2007. Hectic lifestyle 
and stressful schedules are causing it to strike early. 


Control .of diabetes : Saturated fats from animals, hydrogenated fats 
should be avoided. Use vegetable oils, nuts, fish and avocados. Eat 
curd and fresh fruits. About 50 gms. of germinated gram:should be 
taken with every meal. Karela juice and Neem leaf juice are used in 
India for centuries. White coral, white sapphire and pearl can cure 
diabetes. Coffee reduces the risk of diabetes. lt contains potassium, 
, Magnesium and anti oxidants that might improve the body's response 

| to insulin. Exercise is an essential aspect of diabetes management. 
Daily walks for at least 30 minutes in order to check weight, as obesity 
is the major causes of diabetes. A spoonful of Methi powder 

., fenugreek) with a low fat.milk daily for at least two months will help 
‘the blood sugars under control. Bhindi (Okra) soup daily will keep you 
healthy. Drumsticks (saijan ki phalli) and Kantola are very very useful 
for diabetic patients. 


Astrological background of diabetes : Venus is the incharge of all 
glands. Jupiter provides recovery power. Sun and Moon are the hylegs 
of life. Sun is the Karaka forall stomach and bowels disease. Weak 
| Moon does harm for the urinary derangements. Weak Jupiter, causes 
liver, kidney and spleen trouble and urinary infection and diabetes. 
When Sun, Moon, Venus, Jupiter, Virgo sign (6" house of the Zodiac) 


81) 


and sixth house from Lagna are afflicted, they all precipitate to severe 
diabetes. When Sun and Moon are weak one suffers in the general 
scheme of life. When Jupiter and Sun are weak, they are the most 
unfortunate persons, because lady luck is governed: in life by Jupiter 
and Sun. Strong Jupiter nullifines the thousands of blemishes of the 
horoscope. In the present case her 6"/12” axis is heavily afflicted by 
Mars Saturn, Virgo is afflicted by Saturn} Moon is afflicted by Sun and 
Ketu; Sun is afflicted by Rahu. Jupiter is placed in any enemy camp. 
Jupiter is her 8* lord. 8* lord in a Kendra destroys health. «piter is 
aspecting Virgo and her 4tn house. 4* lord is squared by Rahu Ketu axis 
weak 4tn house/4* lord, weak lord of Lagna (lord of Lagna is placed in 
180° away from its natal position in any camp, so weak), weak Moon, 
weak Jupiter, Venus hemmed between malefics destroyed her during 
Sun's Dasa. Dasa of any planet hemmed between malefics in 8" house 
cannot be good. She was pulled down by the diabetes from the age of 
12, (Read Twin 8* houses of the zodiac by Dr. S.S. Chafterjee)she went 
im coma during March 2006 (Sun-Ketu dasa). Sun's dasa will terminate 
her life, because its dispositor has landed in the 12” house. In KCD 
diagram we find Virgo = Jeeva, Libra= Deha. For the horoscopic 
indication to flourish in life Deha and Jeeva lords should be well placed 
from their natal positions. A lord becomes weak, when it moves to 
3/6/8/12 from its own sign. Surprisingly her both Deha and Jeeva lords 
have moved to the 6* house from their natal positions. She opened her 
life with 1"cycle 3yr 10m 13d. Dhanus, Vrishchika and Tula followed. 
In the dasa of Vrischika she was trapped. Mars has moved to the 3r 
house from its natal position and is highly afflicted by Saturn. she is 
enjoyed Libra from 17-1-1996. Dasa of any sign containing node 
brings only severe set backs in life. Dasa lord Venus is hemmed 
between malefics and has moved to the 6m place from its natal position. 
When both Deha and Jeeva signs are afflicted, generally brings sorrow, 
interruption and severe health hazards. 2/12 relationships of Deha and 
Jeeva signs is most dangerous, and is harmful for health, freedom for 
litigation and the like. Tula dasa will terminate her mundane journey. 8* 


(82) 


house is the house of immunity. This is hemmed between malefics. If 
8n house is spoilt, the other relevant houses and planets will not find it 
easy to undo the damage. Author has found that KCD dasa is superior to 
Vimsuttori dasa in forecasting the doomsday of life. 


Example 5. Life long health problems of a married lady : 
DOB 17-08-1968, 5=03 AM, Amritsar, Cancer-Ascendant, Mars; Leo 
Sun 0°43' Mercury, Jupiter, Venus; Virgo Ketu; Pisces Rahu; Aires 
Sat (R), Taurus, Moon. 


She had headache, poor eyesight, throat [\_ sup Ven Sun 
irritation, poor hearing power and synus iy 
problems from class VII. In the long run 


she got married, got a son (1 6yrs in 2006), 
D (14) but never recovered from health 
problems. Look, her Lagna is occupied by 
debilitated Mars, 10* house (sky) is 
occupied by debilitated and retrograde 
Saturn. Rahu-Ketu axis has forced a 
Kalsarpa Yoga for her. Only Mudrika 
Yoga (Mutual angle of Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus), Gajakeshri 
yoga has kept her beyond wants. Her husband is a prosperous 
businessman. She was born in Apasaya Group A, 1" Quarter. Deha = 
Cancer, Jeeva = Sagittarius. When Deha & Jeeva signs are occupied by 
debilitated retrograde, combust planets or 6°/8"/12" lord, the native 
suffers in the general scheme of life. Malefic planets damage the 
horoscope to the maximum extent 6/8 relationships of Deha and Jeeva 
signs also indicate struggles in life. As per sage parasar when Kendras 
are not occupied by a single benefic planet a native fails to maintain 
excellent health. A malefic in Lagna always spells trouble for the 
native. 3" lord Mercury is hemmed between malefics, 3: lord of the 
Zodiac is the same Mercury. Because 3 house is occupied by Ketu, 3“ 
lord is afflicted by 6* lord Jupiter and is combust, it produced ear 
problems, cynus problems, throat irritation etc. Sun and Venus 


(83) 


hemmed between malefics produced eye problems. Sun and Moon are 
giver of light to the eyes. Venus is the overall incharge of eyes. In 
Navamsa, both Sun and Moon have conjoined with Saturn, which 
added fuel to the fire. Her fourth house is spoiled by the joint aspects of 
Saturn + Mars. These joint aspects are highly dangerous and 
annihilates the house, wherever they concentrate their forces. Since 
health, mental peace are governed mainly from 4* house and Jupiter, 
she lost health, happiness of mind because 4* lord and Jupiter are 
hemmed between malefics. Aspect of 6n lord on Jupiter is a grisly 
combination. and is to be feared. When a planet is posited in its own 
house and is afflicted in brings headache (advanced predictive 
Astrology Vol 2 P 246 by Dr. S. S. Chatterjee). Here Sun is an infant 
planet, is posited in its own house, hemmed between malefics and 
afflicted by 6 lord Jupiter. When the sign Aires or Lagna is afflicted, 
one gets headache. Her both Ascendant and Aries are spoiled by 
malefic planets. 


The readers will be very happy to note that Indian spices and paprika, 
all of which are used in curries are particularly rich source of salicylic 
acid. Neither does Indian food cause such as internal bleeding and 
ulcers. Curcumin, the component of turmeric that gives curry its 
distinctive yellow colour, is primarily responsible for its healthy effect. 
Regular aspirin prevents colon cancer because of its apparent ability to 
reduce inflammation that occurs during a tumours development. 
Mushrooms, also prevents the formation of tumour in the abdomen 
(vide TOI P 36, 23-8-2006). Curry powder removes headache very 
easily. Take vindaloo using the hottest curry powder available in the 
market. 


TIMING DISEASES 


The Vimsottari Dasa also known as Udu Dasa is an unique method 
developed by Sage Parasara about six thousand years ago is an 
unparalled method for forecasting success and failures; fortunes and 
fwlisfortune trials and tribunals; good periods and bad periods in 


(84) 


everybody's life as well as in National Affaris. Of the different systems 
in prognosticating the future (such as Chara Dasa, Kala Chakra Dasa, 
Jaimini Dasa, Varsha Phala Dasa etc.) the Vimsottari Dasa system is the 
most popular and stood test of time in this respect. For timing the event, 
from the natal chart the strength of the planets whose dasa and Bhukti 
are running are to be judged with reference to the Karakatwa, 
ownership, association, aspect, the house they occupy from the 
ascendant, auspicious or inauspicious, exaltation or debilitation, 
combust or retrograde, benefic or malefic, the relation between the 
Dasa planet and the Bhukti Dasa planet etc. Then the transit results of 
the planets at the time of assessment are to be judged. Dasa results refer 
to the hour and the Gochara (Transit) results to the minute hand of a 
clock. When the native passes through benefic dasa and antardasa, the 
native may not suffer at all, or if it occurs, it will be mild. The onset of 
the malady to be expected during the Dasa Bhukti of Maraka Planets. 
Planets who occupy the 2n and 7* houses or in association with the 
2"/7" lords are killer or Maraka planets. The planets in the transit give 
rise to diseases when malefics afflict the natal planets and bhavas. 
Sufferings are generally caused when the trinal places or trines from 
the Lagna Lord are occupied by the lords of 8m and 12” houses or by 
Rahu or Ketu or if the 4", 6” or 8: house from the Dasa lord, there are 
malefic, debilitated or combust planets located. Lords of 2nd and 7* are 
considered as ‘death inflicting planets' and bring about generally 
during their dasa and sub-periods serious physical trouble’, particularly 
when these planets are weak and are associated with other similar bad 
houses or their lords. For example, if the lord of the 2™ or 7* house is 
weak and is placed in 6m, 8n and 12" house, they will be their periods 
cause death or serious trouble. According to J.N. Bhasin (Medical 
Astrology, P 152), a planet in the 4" house and weak, in its sub period 
gives disease if the main dasa lord is lord of evil houses such as 
2°/6"/7"/8"/12". Dasa lord occupying the 3, 5* or 7* star held by the 
lord of Navamsa Lagna can invariably cause serious illness. Diseases 
attack the body or show symptoms of increase when the Moon transits 


(85) 


the 8* or 12" Bhava from the Moon sign (this aphorism is stunningly 
true) and when the Moon occupies the 3", 5*, 7* constellation from the 
asterism at the time of birth. 1" house to 6* house invisible, 7* 12* 
house is visible. Suppose Lagna is heavily afflicted, disease of the brain 
is to be anticipated, irrespective of the sign occupied by the ascendant. 
Heart disease is governed by Leo and Sun, if both of them are afflicted 
heart disease is likely to attack the native. If the lord of lagna and 4* 
lords are strong one can avoid many diseases. Clean habits help one to 
avoid diseases. Aspect of Saturn on Sun and Leo is a sure symbol of 
death through heart attack. Aspect of Saturn on Sun and Moon 
decreases life span. According to the author, the death point of the 
native can be found using the simple formula : Add the longitude of 
Ascendant, Sun; Moon & Jupiter. When Satur in transit aspects this 
point a natiye either suffers from serious illness or dies. The learned 
author discovered, the death point in 1989 (Cosmic Influences on Mind 
and 1Q by Dr. S.S. Chatterjee) and found 99% of the earth die as per his 
formula. It is very accurate even in 2007. One may suffer from diseases 
during the following Dasas and Antardasas. 


2ni lord dasa 12" lord Antardasa. 

12" lord dasa 12"lord Antardasa. 

8* lord dasa 8” lord Antardasa. 

6* lord dasa and 8” lord Antardasa. 

7* lord dasa, a malefic in the 6* house as Antardasa Lord. 


6* lord dasa, amalefic in the 8” house as Antardasa Lord. 


NA wR YN = 


8* lord dasa, a planet in association with 6* lord or a planet 
aspecting 8* lord as Antardasa Lord. 


8. Aplanet in the 8* house as a dasa lord and 6* lord as Antardasa. 
9.  6* lord dasa, 8” lord Antardasa. 
10. Malefic in 6* as dasa lord, 8* lord in 8* as Antardasa lord. 


(86) 


Il. 


12. 


20. 


12™lorddasa & a malefic in 12" as Antardasa lord. 
A Malefic in 8" as dasa lord, a malefic in 6" as Antardasa lord. 


Ifthe lord of Lagna is associated with 2™ lord or is aspected by it, 
it becomes a potential killer planet. 


If a malefic in the 12* house is aspected by the !2* lord, it 
becomes a killer planet. 


A malefic in 2™, if it combines with the 12" lord, it becomes the 
strong killer planet. 


Dasa of the planets in the 7* Bhava. 
AplanethemmedbetweenmaleficsasaDasalord. 

Dasa Antardasa of a combust. 

Dasa Antardasa of Moon ini the 8*. 


Rahu Ketu dasa passing though 6"/12" axis. 


There may be many more combinations intelligent readers are 
requested to find them from practical cases, bearing in mind that the 
planets in 6, 8" 12” houses and their lords, planets in 2nd and 7* houses 
and their lords are capable of generating strong diseases. The author 
hopes that it will be very. easy for the astrologers to identify the diseases 
well in advance. 


(87) 


SECRETS DF LONG LIFE 


n this article, I shall show how it is possible to 

cross 80 years without medicines and visiting 

hospitals. Only general knowledge about health 
diseases will keep you fit for 80 yrs, In India only 
0.1% people prefer to live above 80 yrs or above, for 
financial insecurity and for the fear of dangerous 
diseases. As per 2005 Guinness Book of records, Del 
Toro, 115 yrs. of USA is the oldest person on earth 
who is still alive and celebrating his 115” birthday 
(TOI 23ra August 2006). Prevention is better than 
cure. With this idea in mind various healing 
techniques through the applications of yoga, 
meditation, physical exercise, hormones, vitamins, 
fruits and vegetable, Indian herbs, homoeopathy, 
siddhis (some occult power) of Indian sages have 
been discussed in detail. The sages have advocated 
that the strength of Moon and Sun in a horoscope 
determines everything. When Moon becomes weak, 
all the Rajayogas cease to function. Strong Moon 
makes a man creative and genius and grants long 
life. 


Origin of man No answer: 


M.-C. Bhandari (1935-1998) has written cosmos 
exists, life comes and goes. How it really happens, 


(88) 


none of us knows. Who made the stars, planets and the Sun, The 
galaxies, supernovas the total creation. How they effect us, how we 
§ take our breath. What's that consciousness, where we merge after 
death? What a miraculous creation, what a miraculous fantastic mind 
that can travel faster than we imagine today. Isn't that all the mystical, 
should we not try to find them. Equally wonder about the origin of 
man the upright biped, the creature of three dimensional vision, the 
omnivore, the thinker, the inventor of tools, his vertical skeleton, his 
preciously balanced head, his broad pelvis, his long legs, and his 
narrow flat feet? From whom and by what devious path of evolution did 
he acquire his forward looking eyes mounted in a movable head and 
controlled by coordinated sets of muscles, his unspecialized teeth, his 
independently mobile arms ending in grasping fingers and opposable 
thumbs; his complex brain: and his voice box linked to speaking 
mouth. The answers to these question are incomplete in spite of 
Drawin's Theory of Evolution. According to Vedas water and life were 
brought down to his planet after a very long research, inventions 
investigation and untiring repeated attempts by Lord Brahma, Shiva 
and Narayan. It has been estimated that in the year 10,000 BC the 
human population Was 12 million. In 1650, 11,650 years later, the 


; population has risen to 545 million. In December 2006 the global 
population is 6.5 billion. The population will reach 210 billion by 2200 
AD. Due to discovery of wonderful drugs, and better facilities the life 
expectancy has increased enormously in the 2} century. Aids and 
Cancer are two most two dangerous diseases ofthe 21st century. An 
average life span in India is 55, whereas in US Ait is above 75. Cholera, 
Plague, Malaria, Small-pox were the greatest killers in 18", 19" and 20: 
century. Wars also killed millions of persons of this planet. Hitler alone 


' killed 100 millions. Virus and bacteria are responsible for infectious 
, diseases. Fungi cause some of most important diseases of the world. 
Smuts and rusts of grain and late blight potatoes, are a few that have a 
profound effect on the lives of men. By definition, disease includes not 
- only all infectious diseases of planets and animals, whether caused by 


(89) 


bacteria, viruses, moulds, protozoa, or other organisms, but any 
malfunction in an organism, no matter what the cause, with this 
definition in mind we would have to include as possible causes of 
disease the consequences of malnutrition, vitamin, deficiency, air 
pollution, chemical poisons, inherited malfunctions and even defect 
resulting from injury and imperfections in development. Antibiotics 
have become so important a part of our lives that we should know what 
they are and how they act. An antibiotic is any biological substance that 
is produced by an organism and that inhibits or retards the (discovered 
in 1938 by English Scientist Fleming) actively growing bacteria. Its 
action seems to be to prevent the manufacture of new cell walls by the 
bacteria. Many chemical substances act as disinfectants, substances 
capable of killing or removing microorganisms that cause infection. 
Some disinfectants : Iodine, chlorine, formaldehyde, boric acid, 
carbolic acid, hydrogen peroxide, mercuric chloride and silver nitrate. 
Sulphur group of medicines were invented in 1930. The sulfa drugs, 
among which sulfanilamide and sulfadiazine are examples; are 
produced synthetically. These wonderful sulfa drugs as well as 
penicillin have saved countless lives in hospitals and on battlefields 
throughout the world since 1940. The centre of Astrobiology Cardiff 
University UK has said that life was first created in deep space and not 
on earth as widely believed. Acting as super sperm distributors of the 
cosmos, comet passing through the earth's vicinity may have deposited 
genetically rich cosmic dust on the planet. These are believed to have 
showed the seeds of primitive life on earth. The tremendous extremes 
of heat and cold, the excessive radiations, and the lack of an atmosphere 
in outer space cannot be tolerated by any known forms of life. Scientist 
up to the end of 20* century, failed to come to a logical conclusion about 
the origin of life on earth. Either life was brought down to earth or it 
started on the earth no body knows. 


NATURE'S DECAYING PROCESS IS KNOWN 
AS DISEASE 


In Sanskrit there is a sloka: "Shariram Bhydhi Mandiram" meaning 


(90) 


living body is the den of diseases, but if those disease are converted to 
lameness, human birth becomes very painful. Other than Gods, 
everything perishes, after sometime, it may be after even million of 
years. After about 100 billion years Sun will cease to function. Our 
earth is only 5 billion years old. The earth of 5 billion years ago was a 
very different place from what it is today. One most profound 
difference of course, was the absence of hordes of hungry animals and 
human beings seeking every bit of available nourishment. When one is 
bom- he is destined to die. The difference may be between 0-100 years 
in the21" century. This life span will increase in the 22nd century. 
Everybody has to suffer from some diseases and has to accept the holy 
orders of heaven. Everything decays out through natural processes and 
are so accurately time bound, that we hardly understand their 
mechanisms. Air blows, Sun and Moon provides us light and heat, tides 
come in the ocean, season changes, rotation of day and night is a 
spontaneous procedure. With the passing of a few years (author 
remembers his last 60 yrs. vividly) we become outdated persons of the 
society (after 65 or so) We can't avoid aging process. We have 
‘ observed, after death the body decomposes within 24 hrs. It is God's 
: invisible force which starts work immediately after death, because the 
body starts decomposition. Invisible germs attack the corpse within 
two hours after death. All these systems are automatic and accurate. 
Disease is a disorder in a human, animal or plant caused by infection, 
diet or faulty functioning of a process. A disease bring disaster in the 
body and mind. Happiness is decreased on the onset of any disease. 
Ope cannot enjoy food and drinks properly. Happiness springs out from 
social relationships, enjoyable work, fulfillment of desire, money, high 
self esteem, a sense that life has a meaning. True happiness comes out 
easily from defect/disease free body. Some psychologists believe that 
happiness is genetic whereas other scientists say that may have located. 
an important area of the brain where happiness is generated. While 
these ideas are debated we don't have to wait to begin discovering 
happiness within ourselves. Laughter is undoubtedly the best 


Q1) 


medicine. Mind has a terrible power of cure. Doctors have found that 
some of their patients have not only lost their muscular difficulties, but 
also the pains of arthritis under psychotherapy. This have just given as 
idea of the power of mind in healing procedures. The famous 
Frenchman Coue! based his whole theory of cure on repetition. He 
used to get his patient to repeat again and again and again that he was 
cured until the patient was convinced that he was cured and he was. 
This is an example of the power of mind in healing. Bernard Shaw, 
Bertrand Rustle, Somerset Maugham, Michelangelo, Ronald Reagan, 
Winston Churchill, Rabindranath Tagore etc are just some examples of 
people whose youthful minds and imagination kept their bodies young 
and active long past the normal span of ageing. A strong intellectual 
interest can work wonders of the body. To ward off aging, an active 
change of work, say. every 10 to 12 years, is often necessary, or may be 
an absorbing hobby can be, persuaded. All these help to keep the body 
and the mind young and alert. Sir Jagdish Chandra Bose (1855-1937) a 
great Scientist of Bengal lived 82 years, discovering many new ideas 
throughout his life. William Shockley, the father of transistor lived 
between (1910-1989). Using vacuum tube, a computer was the size of a 
big hall and needed a air conditioning system to cool down the hot tubes 
(1960). Now in 2007, a computer is of the size of a palm, thank to 
transistor, it is now possible to have small hearing aids which could 
even be incorporated in a spectacle, pace makers which could be 
incorporated in a heart to regulate its beating so on. In fact, without 
mini electronic components, space age would not have been possible. 
And, of course, transistor made possible an electronic telephone 
exchange, the dream with which Shockley began researches. Thomas 
Alva Edison, the Wizard of inventions lived between 1847-1931. 
Before his death at West Orange on 18" Oct. 1931 he was eighty four 
he had patented 1300 inventions i.e. two inventions per month from the 
age of 25. Shortly before he died, Americans Newspapers conducted 
polls to determine difference of opinion over the lists, but each poll 
agreed that the greatest of all was Thomas Alva Edison, Electric bulb, 


(92) 


modern cinema (Speaking Pictures), gramophone, modern telephone 
etc. were discovered by this great scientist. Stress free life, can prolong 
life. Suicide is the ultimate act in succumbing to stress. The motives for 

i suicide include bad health, severe pain inside the body, troubled 

¥ relationships with people, material problems, such as shortage of 
money, bad housing, a disorganized life, failure in marriage. People 
from broken homes often attempt suicide. Chronic alcoholisms also be 
acause. All over the world as many as thousand people try to commit 
suicide daily. Two countries whose suicides rates appear to be going 
down are Japan and Britain. In Japan the reason is because ideas of 

* dishonour and disgrance are changing and in Britain because of an 
organization called the Samaritans. 


HOW TO LIVE HAPPILY“ 


‘ Live in the present and don't worry about the future, things will work 
i outall right 


T. 


It is always best to have a holiday. This makes a break in stress 
pattern. A complete change of place helps to dissolve the stress. 


There is no point becoming tense about something in future, the 
important thing is the present; that is what really matters. Do 
your utmost to savour and enjoy the present the future will 
certainly look after itself. The frame of mind will lesson any 
amount of stress and tension.’ 


Improve your relationships with friends and family happiness 
starts at home. Be an optimist optimism generates good feeling. 
Develop a genuine smile and laugh a lot. Now in Delhi/Gurgoan 
area people about ]00 yrs join together early in the morning and 
laughs each other loudly. This a great tonic for maintaining an 
excellent health. 


« Pray, become spiritual and religious. It really works. President 
Nixon appealed to all people on earth to pray for the safe return of 
Apollo 13. it really worked. Moghul Emperor Babar appealed to 


(93) 


God for the speedy recovery of Humayun and it really worked. A 
worried mother usually appeals for the speedy recovery of her 
child in great illness. 


Be generous and share with others give more than you receive. 
Give a good gift, when you accept any invitation for dinner for 
the occasion of a marriage or other reasons. Exercise your mind, 
keep busy with new ideas. Work your body- exercise regularly. 
Have fun in life, keep cool under pressure. Pursue achievable 
goals. Have high confidence in yourself (not overconfidence and 
not highly ambitious). Give compliments, take every opportunity 
to be complimentary. Be honest, with honesty comes openness. 
Invent novel solutions to problems. Be ready to make new 
experiments. Have an eye for new thing. Be filled with ideas. 
Creativity does not come easily. An open mind towards 
innovative solution a mind not Carried away by prejudices and 
superstitions ig creative. Engage the mind to new things. Treat 
difficulties as challenges in life. Life is our adventure and every 
obstacle in life, is one of its challenges. Treat life as a game. What 
furi would a game is if you could never lose? You decide y ou want 
to be happy! Happiness is free. You can feel happiness, this very 
minute, if you so choose. If you continue to focus all your energy 
and attention on what you want, you will soon find yourself 
happy. We have learnt a great lesson from a moral story of ancient 
India. A fox tried to reach at a bunch of grapes again and again. 
Ultimately he told to himself that grapes must be sour. I don't 
need them. So if you do not get anything ky repeated attempts, 
forget it and feel happy. I sincerely hope that reading the above 
paragraph you will smile for me. That shall make both you and 
me happy. Do you find the beauty of nature on the smiling face of 
akid. What a wonderful such a scenery is. Smile has a stimulating 
and therewith invigorating effect on the whole human organism. 
As a result of a study cardiologists people with a good sense of 
humour can do a lot to prevent heart attacks. A good attitude may 


(94) 


be your best prescription if you have heart disease. In addition, 
stop smoking and a healthy diet, a hearty smile seems to be pretty 
important to protect your heart effective. According to researcher 
of facial expression it was found that the brain of smiling people 
are provided with more oxygen because the use of the facial 
muscle, while smiling enhances those blood vessels which 
transport the oxygen to your brain. Smile’ means S=Sincerity, 
M=Motivation, I=Integrity, L=Laughter, E=Enthusiasm. So 
simply by laughing one can enhance the other four counterparts 
of life. As simple as it sounds laughing and smiling, in other 
words allowing yourself to get swept away with overall good 
humour, is beneficial to the cardiovascular system,. control 
nervous system and endocrine system. If you are facing an 
illness, having a positive outlook and a sense of humour will keep 
your body often to healing. The best way to cheer yourself up is to 
try to cheer some body by Task Twain. Life is the art of drawing 
without an eraser. 


SOME GENERAL KNOWLEDGE ABOUT HEALTH 
AND DISEASES 


There are total six kinds of happiness in life (happiness for sound 
: health, happiness for money, happiness for a loyal wife, happiness from 
: children, happiness from neighbours happiness from the Government 
patronage). However, the best happiness is good health i.e. freedom 
i from worries about one's body or diseases. That is why we should know 

more about body and how to look after it. 


The greatest wonder in this cosmos is the human body. Our body is 
equipped with the best antomatic, delicate and most powerful 
machines. Heart and lungs anon stop pumping set eyes wonderful 
camera cum projector, ears astounding sound system; stomach a 

» wonderful chemical laboratory; nerves thousand of kilometers of 

"< communication system;' brain unparalleled computer with infinite 

: capacity. And the greatest thing about it is the unbelievable co- 

‘ ordination of these machines, so that this body can easily work for over 


(5) 


a hundred years The seven essential ingredients of .the body blood, 
narrow, flesh, bone, semen, sinews (that joins the muscles to bones) and 
fat are controlled by seven planets. Our body consists of the five basic 
elements viz. water, earth, fire, air and space. These five elements are 
controlled by he electricity of he body known as "Chetana" which 
comes from the non-chargeable life battery. This battery has been 
installed in our body at the time of conception. The white dazzling light 
generated by this battery can be seen in the middle of the forehead with 
the eyes closed through certain Yogic Methods. 


In order to get faster relief and break of vicious cycle of diseases, it is 
advisable to do the following to recharge the inner battery. 


1. Pranayama and yogic exercises have been introduced by our 
seers thousands of years ago for preserving youth and freshness. 


2. Slip a meal or two, reduce the food intake (after the age of 40) and 
take fruits, vegetable juices and butter milk, thereby providing 
rest to the digestive system. 


3. The battery of our body is recharged during sleep. So it is mot 
important to have good sleep whenever one gets tired. 


4. | Drink lukewarm water (preferably copper, silver, gold or iron 
charged) and health drinks (Fruits and vegetable juices). Copper, 
silver, gold and iron charged water can be obtained by boiling 
pure pieces of the respective metal (50-60 gms) in water for one 
hour. Copper water is useful for all diseases connected with the 
nervous system (i.e. High BP, Arthritis, Polio, Tension, Leprosy). 
Silver water is useful for all diseases of the organs connected 
with the digestive system and urinary system. Gold water is 
useful for disorders of the breathing systems, lungs, heart, brain 
and as a general tonic. Iron water is useful in deficiency of iron in 
blood anemia or during pregnancy. 


Mind has a great control on our body. A happy mind in a healthy body is 
the target to achieve. Happiness of mind can be achieved by stopping 


all unnecessary worries. Worry and grave are twin sisters, so leave your 

worries for working hours. In has been observed that in most of the 
; psychological problems, the endocrine glands are disturbed and not 
‘ corrected afterwards. In such cases, treatment on all the endocrine 
i glands would prove beneficial. In the case of prolonged illness, pains 
t on the points related to more than one endocrine glands are found. 


LANGUAGE OF BODY (MEANING OF SIGNAL) 


The human body is a wonderful complex system which has a number of 
: ways to balance or eliminate the materials which could be harmful to 
the body. In order to facilitate the elimination of these substances, the 
: body is equipped with urges that appear naturally. There are two types” 
: of natural urges : Suppressible and non suppressible urges. According 
; to Ayurveda, there are thirteen types of natural urges in the body which 
: should not be suppressed. These are the natural calls from body which 
. 1S a person must attend to as and when they appear in order to maintain 
'; the balance in the body, and to eliminate an element that might cause 
I imbalance. 


"The thirteen non suppressible natural urges are: 
Urge to pass urine. 
Urge to eliminate faeces 
Urge to eliminate semen 
Urge to pass out flatus ~ 
Urge to vomit 
Urge to sneeze 
Urge for eructation 
Urge to yawn 
Urge to eat (hunger) 
Urge to drink water (thirst) 
Urge to shed tears or cry 


(97) 


° 
2 


Urge to sleep and 


Urge for heavy or fast breathing caused by over exertion. 


Major Singnals : 


1. 


When there is less urination, more toxins are accumulated in he 
body. It is advisable to take 4 to 5 liters of water or liquids daily. 


Ache or pain in any particular part shows congestion of carbon 
dioxide water, air etc. (Meningitis disease is caused by 
accumulation of water in the brain). Carbon dioxide and toxin 
collect around vital organs which do not allow the current of life 
of penetrate and recharge the organ. That is why malfunctioning 
or disease develops around that organ and the disease starts. 


The running of nose and sneezing mean that the body is trying to 
throw out excess water. During a full year, the body tries to throw 
out excess water, twice through sneezing and running nose, 
which is know as common cold. The phenomenon lasts for 3 to 5 
days each time. One need not worry about such cold or try to stop 
it. It is jokingly remarked that in common colds if you take 
medicine, you will be all right within 7 days but you do not take 
medicine it will take a week to heal up. 


Coughing indicates that the body is feeling cold and that it is 
trying to clear congestion in throat and chest. 


Sneezing in the morning is considered to be a sign of good health. 


Itching shows that a greater flow of blood is required around that 
part. 


Fever indicates that the battle in our body i.e. white cells are 
having a fight with invisible micro-germs of a disease. One 
should not try to stop fever suddenly, sudden stoppage of fever 
has many times resulted in some other diseases even in paralysis. 


Twisting of the body indicates that it is tired and requires rest and 
oxygen. 


8) 


9. Loss of appetite indicates that there is congestion and 
constipation and that the stomach is busy in fighting with the 
disease. In such a case only lukewarm water and fruit juices or 
butter milk should be taken instead of further taxing the stomach 
with food. 


‘10, Ache or murmur in the heart indicates that the heart requires total 
rest. The best way is to remain in the bed for 24-72 hrs. 


In our modern lifestyle, we find ourselves actually suppressing some or 
, most of the natural urges of the body we forcefully suppress the urge to 
- sneeze when sitting in a meeting, the urge to eat when busy with work, 
* the urge to pass urine While watching a favourite show on television, or 

the urge of eliminate flatus (fart) or yawn while in public. These 
: suppressed natural urges could be the cause of sickness. Below is a 
: description of disorders caused by suppressing each natural urge. 


‘Urine : Suppression of urge to pass urine causes pain in bladder and 
; phallus, dysuria, headache, bending of the body and distension of he 
: lower abdomen. 


Feces : If one holds the urge of defecation,*it causes colic pain, 
headache, retention of feces, distension of abdomen, wind formation, 
and cramps in the calf muscles. 


Semen : One should not forcefully suppress the urge of discharge 
semen. Although Ayurveda promotes preservation of semen as it is a 
‘part of Shukra Dhatu, its forceful suppression is not advised. 
Suppression of the urge of discharge semen causes pain in the phallus 
and testicles, malaise, cardiac pain and retention of urine. 


Flatus : If one suppresses the urge for passing flatus, it causes retention 
of feces, urine and flatus, distension of abdomen, pain in stomach, and * 
Other abdominal diseases caused by aggravation of vata. 


Vomiting : The diseases caused by the suppression of the urge for 
vomiting are pruritus, urticaria, anorexia, black pigmentation of face, 
edema, anemia, fever, skin diseases, nausea and erysipelas. 


(89) 


Sneeze : Suppression of the urge to sneeze causes ailments like 
torticollis, headache, facial paralysis, and weakness of the sense 
organs. 


Eructation or belching : Suppression of eructation causes hiccup, 
dyspnea, lack of desire to eat, tremor, obstacles in the proper 
functioning of heart and lungs. 


Yawn: Suppression of yawning causes convulsion, c.:ntractions, 
numbness, tremor and shaking of the body. All these are t1* diseases 
caused by aggravation of vata. While yawning, the body c. pels the 
unwanted vata from the body and if it is forcefully retained, it causes a 
number of vata disorders. 


Hunger : By suppressing hunger, one subjects himself to emaciation, 
weakness, chafige in body complexion, malaise and giddiness 


Thirst : suppression of thirst causes dryness of throat and mouth 
deafness, causation, weakness and cardiac pain. 


Tears : By suppressing tears, one may develop eye diseases.; heart 
diseases , headache, vertigo and giddiness. Holding back the tears also 
blocks the emotions and this could led to mental worry, depression and 
irritation. 

Sleep: Suppression of the urge of sleep causes yawning, malaise, 
drowsiness, constipation, body ache, headache and heaviness in The 
eyes. When one has pain in the body, light food and longer hours of 
sleep are a must. That will help the patient to recharge and empower his 
life battery and will get cured soon. 


Breathlessness due to exertion: Suppression of this urge may lead to 
heart diseases, respiratory tract disorders, and fainting. According to 
Ayurveda, the first fine of tr€atment in all disease is "avoid the cause". 
Therefore, all diseases that can be caused by he suppression of he 
various natural urges can be prevented simply by not suppressing any 
ofthem. 


Cholesterol: It is a vital element of all body cells (C,,H,,Q) It exists in 


(400) 


blood in a protein coating, It occurs in oils and fats. LDL or bad 
cholesterol has a higher content of protein whereas HDL or high 
density lipoprotein has a thick protein content. The LDL or bad 
cholesterol attaches itself into the artery walls forming a plaque 
whereas the HDL carries the cholesterol through the blood stream. The 
plaque causes the arteries to block leading to a heart attack or stoke or 
even death. Avoid eggs, meats, fatty food. Take fruit juices, banana, 
curd and a very little food only enough for living. More than 3 
eggs/week should not be given to children. ECG/every 2yrs after 50 is 
recommended for maintaining an excellent health. Avoid excitement, 
too much exertion, exposure to cold and over eating. Avoid fast foods. 
Scientists now believe (TOI, 31-5-2006, P33) that carbohydrates, 
especially single sugars, can cause unhealthy changes in blood fats by 
causing fat to collect in the liver. Just as it does on thighs and belly. 
These fats eventually find their way into the blood stream. Cutting 
carbohydrates can reduce fat level in the blood. Those who want to 
reduce weight, should stop carbohydrates. It will reduce LDL 
cholesterol level. Sunflower oil reduces cholesterol level; 


Harmful effects of common salt : Our body does not require more 
than 5-6 gm of salt. Avoid salt on salad, and on your food. By taking 
natural fruits without salt we can decrease the intake of sodium ions 
through salt. Potassium present in all fruits, brings a balance in the 
blood. Less salt increases the velocity of blood though veins and 
arteries. Excess salt reduces life span, and spoils the kidney. ‘Nobody 
should drink fruit juices with salts. Avoid pickles rich in salts. 


Musie reduces chronic pain & insomnia (TOI 1.62006 P 5 in Delhi 
Times) 


Leistering to music promotes a number of positive benefits and adds to 
the growing body of evidence that it an important role a play in modern 
healthcare. It reduces chronic. pain, can improve sleep. So follow what 
Shakepeare said. "If music must be the food of love play on_” ' 


Alcohol and beer can reduce causes of heart attack and osteoporosis 


(101) 


(TOI 1.62006 P 5 in Delhi Times) : It is widely admitted 1 peg of 
alcohol reduces heart attack cases. 1 pint of beer a day may stave off 
osteoporosis, says a latest study An estimated 3 million people in 
Britain suffer from osteoporosis a condition which causes bones to 
weaken and fracture easily. Everyone knows that calcium inhibits bone 
loss but the modern scientists in 2006 found, that ethanol (C,H,OH) in 
beer has the same affect, if not better effect. Drinking too much 
alcohol/beer have real adverse effects. So it is best to keep a tab oh how 
much beer/alcohol one consumes. 


Sun rays may reduces cancer, schizophrenia, arthritis, rickets : 
Recent studies have suggested that vitamin D may protect against 
breast and prostrate cancer. The public is now being told to spend at 
least 15 minutes in the sunshine most days except during the hottest 
part of the day between 11 AM to 3PM. For the years we have been told 
to cover up in the Sun to avoid skin cancer (Melanoma). Many people 
are now getting so little sunlight that their bodies ae failing to produce 
enough vitamin D. This. leaves them susceptible to other forms of 
cancer, as well as conditions including arthritis and even 
schizophrenia. There is also concern in cold countries that rickets is 
making return to children with severe vitamin D deficiencies. Long 
hours in cars and offices also limit to exposure of sunrays. 


Hypertension and poor memory : It is possible that people who 
inherit hypertension and high blood pressure may also inherit a weak 
memory and poor concentration. Mars is the symbol of logic. In case of 
hypertension use ]2 Rati (180 mg = Rati) Red Coral on the ring finger. 
It will reduce high blood pressure. Those who have Mars in 5" are 
intelligent persons. 


Less risk of stroke: People who do regular exercises such as running, 
swimming, cycling or playing tennis have lower risk of strokes. 


Sun burn disease : Wear sunglasses to prevent wrinkle on the delicate 
eye. Chances are you'll be squinting. This repeated action on face 
eventually can cause crow's feet, which can rob your face of a youthful 


(102) 


appearance. One should avoid bright sunrays between 10AM-4 PM in 
India.” 


4 
ASTROLOGICAL CONCEPT OF DISEASES 


Astrology being a limb of the Vedas, it presupposes a firm faith in God 
as.the dispenser of the fruits of one's actions and the inherent 
philosophy of Karma which postulates that we reap what we sow. 
Charitable acts beget Punya which enables us achieve the 
purustharthas led by Dharma en route to Godhead. Evil actions beget 
sins that hinder the performanée of Dharma and thus obstruct our 
evolution. Now Dhaima is Karma based and Karma is body based and 
_ that is why the fruits of evil actions, namely sins, affect us in the shape 
of diseases that put the body and mind out of gear. Poorava Janma 
Kritam Papam Vyadiroupena Badhethe According to Prasna Marga 


tanPrite gag see Tey: years Tenhraang aaa 
oereed Regie sas: rae Tiere: sale fe yu eqtaheaereTg | 


_ People ascribe all sorts of reasons for diseases : possession by evil 
spirits, planetary affliction and tridosha or the imbalance between Vata 
(gas) Pitta (bile) and Kapha (Phelgm). But often, the truth about this 
three fold origin lies in man's own sins. Haritha confirmsi it and points 
TAT TG aniretr aad | wnat 

The sins of past lives bother us in the form of diseases. The latter can be 
ameliorated by (a) medicines (b) danas (c) Japa (d) Homa and (e) 
. worship of Gods i. all the three physical, emotional and spiritual 
levels. Our Hindu Sages assert that when any illness or disease 
mane on account of malfunctioning of one or more.of the three 
forces Vata, Pitta and Kapha, it can be cured by medicines. If such 
manifestation is caused by malefic transit of planets the remedy will lie 
in propitiating the planets or their Deity. Should such illness be 
attributed to baadhaa (preta, bhuta, deva etc.) these can be remedied 
through reciting or causing to be recited appropriate Mantra or Japa; if 


(103) 


such illness can be attributed to prarrabdha karma of the parents of the 
native or his parents, the native may seek remedy only through 
adhyatmik practices which is clear through the following sloka 


icele arity faqoft Taha Rhea Tethesarrar a 
aTenPahit wateeaaha are plea aaa Tag 


The relevance of planets in astrology in brought out clearly by Sage 
Parasar 


sraareraranf area FATE {seca ae i 


The eternal God takes many incarnations, that of the planets being one. * 
In this form he doles out to Jeevas the fruits of their Karmias. It follows 
that the worship of Gods referred to above includes the worship of 
planets too which are really the specific manifestations of the Almighty 
God which also serve as pointers of the onset of disease. Varahamihira 
confirm our deduction thus 


The Sun and Mars (while malefic) should be worshipped devotedly 
with vakula and red flowers, red sandal paste, gold, bullock (as dana) 
etc. A similar Moon should be worshipped with cow (as dana), white 
flowers, sweet, silver (wearing), Naivedya (the offerings to god with _ 
rice, flowers, bananas and sweets) etc. Saturn with black material; 
Mercury with emerald, silver and tilak flower; Jupiter with golden hued 
flowers, aroma and naivedya. Pleased with such a worship these 
planets protect hirn even when he hurtles down a mountain’ peak or 
dives into a snake pit. Ifthe birth chart of a person, malefic planets 
occupy benefice places and benefic planets occupy malefic places 


(104) 


certainly predict that the native has accumulated sins in the past birth, 
the results of which manifest on him by the way of diseases and 
afflictions. If on the other hand, benefics occupy Kendres or trikonas 
considered to be good places and malefics in upachayasthan (3,6, & 
11 *) the native a store house of Punya accumulated in his previous birth 
which will bestow on him good health, longevity, wealth and all other 
things to lead a very happy and pleasant life in the present birth. Mind is 
the driver, body is worker and soul is the sufferer of the results of past 
karma. 


Karma - The eternal mystery: 


Karma literally means 'deed' or act and more broadly refers to the 
universal principle of cause and effect, action ‘and reaction with which 
gover all life. Karma is a natural law of the mind, just as the gravity is a 
law of matter. Astrology sheds light on life by revealing our karmic 
pattern. When a soul is born into a family, it is because of Karmic debts 
with the others in that family. 


Concept of Ranubandhana (the bond that results from karmic debt) 


Ranubandhana is a Sanskrit word. Ran = debt, anubandhana = 
bondage. In each life, we have mother, father, brother, sisters, spouse, 
children and so on. We are born in a family as a result of un-discharged 
debts of past life. Constantly we are creating accounts debiting and 
crediting. We are creating Karmic debts with all those, with whom we 
interact. The karmic debts (ran) lead to bondage or attachment 
(anubandhana). These karmic attachments pull us into the wheel of 
existence again and again. Ranubandhana is at the root of repeated 
lives. Human life is nothing but a memory-of ranubandhana, the story 
of the countless Karmas that we make and live through. Every 
relationship reflects some ranubandhana. 


Kinds of Karma : 


1. . Sanchita Karma - a total accumulated karma (5"/9" houses) : 
This is a vast store of accumulated karmas of all past lives. It may 


(105) 


be indirectly seen in a man in his manner, character, his 
tendencies, aptitudes, inclinations and desires. 


Prarabdha or Fructifying Karma: That portion of our Karmas 
allotted to us in this life is called prarabdha. It is fruit of our past 
actions that are being reaped in this life. All of sanchita karma 
will not be experienced at one time. Only that position which has 
become ripe for experiencing in this lifetime is prarrabdha. The 
natal horoscope reveals Prarrabdha only. 


Kriyaman or Current Karma: This is fresh karma that we do 
in this life. This is the area that man has freedom to determine the 
course of action. This determines our future lives. This is where 
the concept of free will comes. The Horary chart reflects both the 
Prarabdha of past lives as well as the kriyaman of this life. In 
other words, the prashna (Horary) chart is the latest. Karmic 
bank statement with regard to the query. 


Agami Karma or Future karma: The Karma that is coming, in 
other words, new action that you contemplate as a result of your 
thought, the way you envisage the future, is Agmi Karma. 
Planning is Agami, while execution is Kriyaman. Thus Agami 
(planning) leads to Kriyaman, which becomes Sanchita 
(accumulated) to surface later as Prarabdha (destiny); Sanchita 
Karma manifests in two ways - firstly as Prarabdha or so called 
the destiny (controlled by 9” house and its lord) and secondly as 
the Samskaras or character (tendencies). 


Human life is a story of the alternating patterns of duality of happiness 
and suffering, joy and misery, ups and downs. There is not a single life 
without this admixture, without this pair of opposites. This is the law of 
life. Though the atman is identical to Brahma, who is ever radiant and 
blissful, the Jiva (Individual) suffers because he is entrapped by the 
limiting adjuncts (upadhis) of body and mind. The infinite seems to be 
entrapped by the finite body and mind. Misery is not natural to the Jiva, 
it comes to experience a state of misery because of its association with a 


(106) 


body. So the cause of misery is a body. 
Composition Of Body, Mind And Soul: 


In the beginning God made man in his own image and man has been 
returning the compliment ever since. ]n Indian philosophy Vedantic 
Monism pictures god, man and the whole world as a single whole and 
all the divisions are hierarchical in nature. The Katha Upanishad 
describes : Above the senses are objects of desire, above the objects of 
desire mind, above the mind - intellect, above intellect - manifest 
nature, above manifest nature the unmanifest seed; above the 
unmanifest Seed God.God is the goal above him there is nothing. 
According to monistic theories, the realms of the spirit includes and 
contains the inner realms of mind. While the inner realms of mind are 
confined to Buddhi, Manas, Senses and the world. Thus mind is 
subordinate to spirit (or Atma). As such, there is no equality between 
spirit and mind. Mind dwells in the heart of aman. It can realize the four 
stages of waking, sleep, dream and the one beyond senses (Tuirya). It is 
the yoga philosophy by Patanjali that detailed inner realms and how to 
control the vagaries and waywardness of the mind. They had developed 
a science of body mind balancing and to attain the ultimate equipoise or 
mukti. They had psycho analysed man and gave eighteen different 
point of the interaction between inner mind and outer-mind. According 
to Vasistha, they are 1. Mana mind 1. Buddhi Intellect. 3. Chitta 
consciousness 4. Ahankara ego 5, Kalpna imagination 6. Smriti 
Memory 7. Vasana Desire or passion 8. Karma action 9. Avidya - 
ignorance 10. Mala pollution 11.Maya illustion 12. Prakriti nature 
13. Jeeva Vitalself 14. Brahma The absolute or God. 15. Ativatika 
Deha: body beyond physical existence. 16. Indriya Sense organs 17. 
Purvashtake Eight hormone controlling centers 18. Deha Physical 
body. ” 


The Jains had carried this enquiry into all the more subtler areas. 
Epistimological and structural, linguistic and  exertive psycho- 
analysis were fore assumed by them. Actually Jain psychology can be 


(107) 


subject of a book, they even prescribed psychotherapy. Vidranya 
Swami, the well known Vedantacharya had declared in his 
Panchadastic that "Mind is dual" pure and impure. When it is polluted 
with Karma it becomes polluted, when it is desire less it is pure.. Mind 
is responsible for man's idea of freedom or bondage. When it is 
overpowered by passion, it is a slave, when it conquers passion it is the 
free master. Actually the human body consists of various principles and 
systems, not only the physical body which we can see and touch but 
also fine subtle functions which can be sensed by, not seem There are 27 
constellations as 27 lunar mansions and the period taken by Moon to 
travel through these mansions correspond to female menstrual cycle. 
27 brought to a single digit gives of which correspond to nine human 
systems viz skeletal system, muscular system, circulatory system 
respiratory system, nervous system, digestive system, excretory 
system, endocrine system and reproductive system. Nine is also 
represented by seven primary colours (VIBGYOR), infrared and 
ultraviolet. Everyone of us is subject to electromagnetic bombardment 
from these 27 constellations and 9 planets (excluding Uranus, Neptune 
and Pluto). We are living in the ocean of electromagnetic waves and 
therefore we experience ageing. In Vimsottori System the various 
dasas are Sun = 6yr, Moon = | Oyrs, Mars = 7yrs, Rahu = 18 yrs, Jupiter 
= l6 yrs, Satum =19 yrs. Mercury = 17yrs, Ketu =7 yrs. Venus =20 yrs. 
Let us study and understand Naisargik or Natural Dasa Chakra. A new 
born baby is blissful for 6 yrs. He behaves in a manner of a person hot in 
deep penance and sometimes cool.and calm alternatively like Sun in 
Day and night respectfully. If we watch his behaviour for another 10 yrs 
i.e. from 6-16 we find that he is always experimenting with one thing or 
the other in the process of learning the life through his faculty of 
imagination into boyish nature (not matured). He passes out 
matriculation examination by 16. Sometimes he is cheerful like a full 
Moon and sometimes he is blank like dark Moon on Amavasya. His 
physical body also starts taking feed from filtered and unfiltered 
environment. He is not fully developed into a robust man, even then, he 


(106) 


starts taking rash decisions and doing. rash thing based only on his 
physical courage during next 7 yrs. i.e. up to 23yrs. He is full of 
physical valor and prowess only attributable to Mars. With his 
developed body, courage and physical prowess, he starts a new era of 
his life for next 18 yrs. During which he does not like to give any heed to 
any body, especially the elders. He ventures through his fancies and 
follies and at the end of 41 yrs, he realizes that there was almost.no 
proper synchronization of the wisdom (his head) and achievement (his 
body). These 18 yrs he passed almost having head on bull fights as he 
had nothing but a hollow head like Rahu. So a change in life comes at 
the age between 41-45. Jupiter dominates between 41-57. Jupiter is the 
planet of growth and expansion,. He becomes wiser. He expands 
himself in all shares of life and feel rich in all respect. As soon as he 
completes 57 yrs., a sudden shock of future is experienced by him.and 
he tires all the tricks of trade/life he learnt so far to deal with next 19 yrs 
of his life “i.e. from 57-76. Saturn is the symbol of aging. Aging starts 
from 57. Wrinkle appears on the skin, all the hair starts graying, he loses 
the teeth, his appetite decreases. During this period ascribed to Saturn, 
the hard taskmaster, be becomes really rich with true experiences. The 
divine scheme is to the test the learning done till Jupiter's dasa. This is 
the real period of his life in which he gets all the illusions about 
relations etc. evaporated and learns the real lesson of his life, through 
many a difficult ways and services. Normally the person rich with true 
experience is expected to be full of wisdom and required to disseminate 
his knowledge for the good of mankind. So he Undertakes the 
responsibility during next 17 yrs of his life at 76 years of his age. This is 
the period of Mercury, the. divine messenger of God following the 
period of hard taskmaster Saturn. He enjoys all types rewards, respect 
and interacts with people having quest of achieving the goal of life. By 
the time he becomes 93, he is supposed to take stock of his deeds in this - 
incarnated, introspect fully the past life and shed his head forever to 
begin the preparation of his pious sojourn to the desired place through 
liberation during the period for 7 years of Ketu from 93-100. Next 20 . 


(109) 


yrs is govemed by Venus (2nd/7th lord of the Zodiac and hence a great 
killer planet) all the body's metabolism cease to function during this 
dasa. So we bless the person to live long 100 year. Sn Morarji Desai 
lived more than 99 yrs. Sri Jyoti Basu, Siddhartha Sankar Roy, the ex- 
chief Ministers of West Bengal are still active in 2006, though both of 
them crossed the level of 90 yrs. Vedanta presents a precious 
description of all the subtle functions and principles that exist in the 
body along with Atma (or sprit) and gives us practical means of 
controlling and guiding them. According to those principles there are 
10 functions that direct and guide the body. 


-1. The Karma Indriyas or 5 organs of activity the tongue for words, 
arms for giving and receiving, legs for locomotion and the organs 
of elimination and procreation. 


2. The Jnana Indriyas or 5 senses of knowing which we know as 
sight, sound, smell, taste and touch, 6m is the common sense or 
super intelligence faculty. 


The state of mind is closely interrelated with consciousness. There are 
four states of consciousness: the unconscious (6" house), the 
subconscious (8n house), consciousness (1s: house) and super 
consciousness (9 house). 


The conscious mind can take action; it can evoke memory when it 
wants to; it can think actively and towards a certain objective. The 
subconscious mind is a very .big store house of signals, sounds, 
emotions and impressions but even though it is not active like the 
conscious mind, the subconscious mind can play a large part in the 
actions; thinking and behaviour of a person. When one sleeps, the 
active mind rests, but the subconscious mind is awake. When a person 
has to get up early in the morning the waking time is kept in the sub- 
conscious mind and when the time comes the person wakes up exactly 
on the dot. The conscious mind is clearly asleep but the subconscious 
mind is on the job. But the exact relationship between conscious and 
subconscious mind is still not clear and an enormous amount of work 


(110) 


still remains to be done on this very important and interesting subject. 
The subconscious mind can store many times more than in the 
conscious mind. In fact, in popular parlance, the conscious mind 
compared to subconscious is often linked to the iceberg the part of 
iceberg not in the sea representing the conscious mind and the hidden 
part standing for the subconscious mind, Many Psychiatrists believe 
that the impressions formed and stored in the subconscious mind 
during one's early years from birth to six years (he is governed by Sun) 
determine the action of a person for the rest of his life. During these 
early years the mind is not only like a computer storing everything it 
hears, but also like a video tape recorder, recording everything visual. 
These early stored impressions play a big part in the action of person in 
his later life. It is for this reason that parents should pay special 
attention to their children's up bring during the vitally important early 
years of their life. The unconscious is the storehouse of all our Karmas, 
Samskara or Prabhas of our forgotten deeds and experience, mainly 
from past lives. These are deeply buried in the human unconsciousness 
and yet it is precisely these Karmas that propel and steer human life. 
According to seers all diseases are due to sin of the past lives. That is 
why 6* house is the house of diseases. 6" lord should be weaker than the 
lord of Lagna for enjoying a good health. Everything that we see, hear, 
taste, smell or feel is reordered on the subconscious as a samskara or 
impression. Firstly they rest in the subconscious and when they are 
ripe’ they rise into consciousness as wishes or vasanas. Now we can 
define mind as that tendency or function that brings the vasanas, the 
samskars fromthe subconscious to conciseness. Itis not an organ or 
a space but a transcendental function between subconscious and 
consciousness. It is endless, infinite functioning and its activity can 
never be terminated until the vasanas in the subconscious have risen 
and been dissolved. And we can see, the subconscious can never be 
emptied as long as there is sensory output. So if we are to attain the 
peace of mind it is our senses (Kama lust,Krodha anger, Lobha greed, 
Moha attachment, Matsarjya infatuation) that we need to control and 


(11) 


not the mind. 


The goal of life should be self-realization. The function of mind is to 
bring the vasanas and prabdhas up to the level where they can be 
dissolved consciously or unconsciously. Only when the storehouses of 
experiences are emptied will the mind come to rest. Fatigue and stress 
disappears on the calmness Of mind. So also the diseases can be 
controlled effectively with Yoga and Meditation. 


Relationship between body and mind: 


The body knows much more than the mind can fugue out. Our eyes 

record million bits and pieces of information like a video camera, but 

the mind fitters out most of it. The mind only sees that which it wants to 
see. No wonder our body records and remembers so much more than 

we are able to memorize. Even heard this expression "mussel 

memory"? If you have forgotten the password on your computer, try 

recalling it by moving your fingers on an imaginary key board. 

Chances are your fingers will recall the password even when your 

memory fails. Just recognize how your body becomes green with envy 

or red in anger and white in fear. The body not only remembers your 

password but also marks the passage of emotion as source of data. 

Experience reality in the body without the hindrance caused by 

thought. The body never deceives in the way it feels only the mind'goes 
wrong when it interprets. Our old age will see the triumph of body over 
the mind. The body knows much mores than the mind can figure out. 

Eat nature's antioxidants (coloured fruits). 


How To Control Mind (As per Geeta): 

The three basic characteristics of the mind are: 

a) It is always extremely difficult to control it. 
,~b) Yet it can be controlled 

c) There are well defined methods todo it 


Abhayasa (Practice) and Vairagya (dispassion) will enable us to control 
the mind, but how to bring them in our life stream. 


(112) 


a) By developing a strong will to control the mind. 
b) By understanding the nature of mind.' 


c) By practicing earnestly certain techniques of Yama, Niyama and 
Pranayam can also generate a higher level of consciousness by 
removing impurity and strengthening one pointed ness. 


Undisturbed calmness of the mind can be attained by adopting a) 

Friendlyness towards happy. b) compassion for the unhappy — c) 

delight in the good d) indifference to evil e) Love of man and love of 

God are the two basic remedies for all disturbances of mind, after a 

prayer we feel we are calm. Constant prayer alone is the remedy. When 
one attains Mokshya or Salvation, he becomes a Human God 

(Narayana) going outside the preview of planetary influences." For him 

the configuration of planets and the interpretation there are indicative 

of events and not the cause, as everything in the Univers moves 

according to cosmic plan. The events occur under planetary 

configuration is the other name of Law of Synchronicity. Study of 

spiritual aspect of astrology will lead to study of cosmology. A spiritual 
elevated man considers himself as a miniature universe. The yogic 

process (linkage of one's self with Absolute) functionally aims at 

reduction in the metabolic needs, so that all functional organs are set in 
harmony for a minimum consumption of energy. Intake of oxygen 

reduces and the body temperature drops by 2-3 degrees (a reduction of 
body temperature by 2-3 degree can double the longevity of mammals) 
this is a called a person of renunciation. Supreme bliss comes to that 

yogi alone whose mind has become perfectly tranquil, rajas (metabolic 

transformation in the body), who has been identified with Brahma. 
(Absolute) and is taintless. Here moot point is Santa Rajasam” the 

subdued projecting power from which activity emanates and mental 

modifications such as attachment and grief are continually produced 


Bhagvadgeeta 6.26 


(113) 


We have to watch our mind and lead towards path of truth and reality. 
About Mokhya or state of ultimate realization Hindu. Philosophy hold 
little different view. Purity, self control, truthfulness, nonviolence and 
compassion towards all form of life are necessary prerequisites for any 
spiritual path paving way to ultimate union. Forms of salvation after 
death are; 1) Saloka Mukti Where sou! goes to abode of Lord Vishnu 
2) Samipya Mukti here soul enjoys the proximity of God 3) Sarupya 
Mukti it acquites form of God 4) Sayujya Mukti where soul blissfully 
absorbed in God 5) Avatar or Karma Mukti this is to >e achieved 
through stages, one attains the Knowledge of Nirvana Bral. na, when 
entire universe is dissolved at the end of kalpa, he becomes one with 
Brahma and not to born again 6) Vishistadwait Mukti goes to heaven, 
enjoys blissfully in Vaikuntha 7) Purva mimansa Mukti goes to 
heaven, enjoys bliss 8) Apvarya Mukti Separation from quality 
(gunas). There are three forms of mukti before death means when one is 
alive 1) Aatmagyan Mukti means knowledge of inner self, destroys 
Avidya, becomes Jeevan Mukta, can no longer thinks of himself. 2) 
Sadyomukti immediate release, totally loses interest in jllusory body, 
his body drops off 3) Kaivalya Mukti according to Sankha School of 
thought, the soul or spirit bonded by Aviveka, gets Viveka, achieves 
mukti by distangling from Prakriti. A soul is the observer who 
interprets and makes choices based on karma, it also a confluence of 
relationships, out of which emerge contexts and meaning and it is this 
flow of context and meaning that creates experience. So it is through 
the soul that we create our lives. Intention, imagination, insight, 
intuition, inspiration, meaning, purpose, creativity, understanding, all 
these have nothing to do with the brain. They orchestrate their activity 
through the brain, but they are qualities of the nonlocal domain, which 
is beyond space and time. Many things in life happen Which we are 
unable to explain. We can never truly know the mind of God and we can 
never fully understand the how, where and when of anything, even 
something as simple as boiling water..We have to surrender to 
uncertainty, while appreciating its intricate beauty. We will try to guess 


(114) 


the type of diseases the native is likely to suffer in his lifetime, through 
a horoscope but ultimately God only can tell the exact types, time and 
reason of these diseases. uc 


Defect of human body: 


Although human being is in a group of 50 of largest animals in the 2 
million odd species, he goes almost to the bottom of the list where 
muscle power per body size and weight are concerned. It is estimated 
that a four foot six inch chimpanzee has twice the muscle power of an 
average six feet man. Man is poorly prepared to face the rigors of 
climatic change. The main function of this skin is the excretion of waste 
materials of the body It excretes via sweat glands some 5-10% of the 
nitrogenous waste that accumulate in the blood( sweat actually controls 
much of the material found in the urine but in much more dilute form, 
the concentration being 1\8" _ that of urine). His thin, sparsely covered 
skin loses valuable heat when it is cold and affords little protection to 
exposure. Unlike most animals, man must laboriously learn to swim, 
and even when he has mastered this, he cannot survive for long in cold 
or even moderately cold water. But man, the innovator, the maker of 
tools, must like all other animals, rely on the living thing around him for 
food. He has learnt from bitter experience that he cannot upset nature's 
balance without suffering the consequences of drought or erosion .God 
has provided fair skin to ladies without beard or hair on the face . 
Perhaps the human baby would not have tolerated fierce looking 
personality. All mothers are like angles to a human baby .Venus 
governs body luster. A beautiful Jady must have a strong Venus, 
because the fair skin is governed by Venus. The overall skin is governed 
by Mercury. When the lord of lagna Mercury is afflicted, skin diseases 
will appear. When the lord of lagna Venus is afflicted, one will suffer 
from urine related problems. Charismatic personality is governed by 
Venus in either sexes. Strong Venus provides a sympathetic and broad 
mind. Afflicted and strong Mars provide cruel mind. It must be 
remembered that fair coloured persons do enjoy some sort of honour in 
the society. Face shows the man as the morning shows the day .God 


(116) 


created white ,black, brown and yellow coloured human beings. White 
persons are of European origin, Blacks are Africans and yellow people 

are of Mongolian origin. Brown people are either mixtures or their skin 
became brown for the hot climate . Though almost 80% persons of 

Latin America came from Europe, but in the 21* century they are all 

brown coloured persons like Asians and Arabians. The whole body is 

covered by two square meter skin which is very sensitive to heat and 

cold. 


Controlling spirits : 


In India, Aghora Sadhanas (Aghora at the left of God by Robert E. 
Svoboda, Rupa & Co, 2003 P 187) have always been a closely guarded 
secret, given by guru only to his most trusted disciples. They have to be 
secret, because they are not in the realm of written or spoken world. 
Almost everyone who dies a sudden death becomes a spirit because 
there is no time to select a new life, this is why peaceful death is so 
important. There are also tiny children: those who were born dead or 
who dies of disease, accident or some more terrible fate. These ghosts 
are Karna Pishachini. Higher than Karna Pischachini is Yakshini, the 
female form of Yaksha, a male spirit almost the level of minor deity. 
Yaksha and Yakshinis were once human and were good sadhakas at that 
time, otherwise they could not possess such powers. They were Hindus 
during their life time. Mokhul were Muslims, Angles were Christians. 
Hibiscus flowers play an import part in the sadhana of a Yoksha. During 
the sadhana of a Mokul, a lamp filled with pure essence of hinga, a 
Muslim's favourite perfume, must be kept continuously burning. 
Suppose a Pischatha , a low sort of spirit, becomes pleased with you 
and blesses you. And the only blessing a Pishacha can give you is that 
you receive everything you ask for. Some Sadus can give you any 
material you ask from him through a spirit. So when a Sadhu (elevated 
soul) materializes something from air he has not created that thing, but . 
actually this is simply a transportation and not creation of a thing. There " 
is a set of procedures for controlling a spirit or a ghost. Once it is 
controlled, the spirit does not work for its controller throughout his life. 


(118) 


The end of life of such controller becomes very miserable. Arjuna 
started with a Karna Pischachini, so did Veda Vyasa. Once you have 
learned all you can from yours, your guru can remove it from you, and 
you can go to something higher i.e. Yakshini or Yaksha. You can learn a 
lot from spirits about heaven, hell and about other planets of this 
universe. A spirit possesses much higher knowledge compared to a 
any human being. 


Power ofa Yogi: 


We know mind has a terrible velocity. By utilizing this power one can 
cure diseases. A Yogi can eliminate all diseases. There are two aspects 
of human life. In materialism, pleasures of the body are given much 
preference over anything else. Modern education increases this 
tendency. In spiritual life the main goal is awakening of the soul. There 
are five senses; touch, smell, taste, hearing and vision. Mind is the 6" 
sense. It attributes are : greed, ego and attachment for worldly objects. 
If food intake is kept low after 40 or so it protects the man from 
diseases, longevity too is enhanced. When the feeling of Vasudhaiva 
Kutumbakam develops, a person exhibits love and compassion 
towards everyone and offers his services for the welfare of humanity. 
Only a true yogi can acquire siddhis or occult power. In yogic path one 
has to abandon pleasures of living happily with wife, children, A/C, 
cars, luxurious apartments. It is a path of self sacrifice. One has to live 
in cremation grounds/mountains/forests without food, water clothes 
etc. A guru is a must for acquiring occult powers. All the Naga Sadhus 
follow the path of left hand (Bamachara) of God for acquiring Siddhis. 
(occult power) The Naths have a prescription for spiritual 
advancement. "Break up your sleep, and cut down your food; no mater 
how far your mind may soar into the astral regions while you are awake, 
once you go to sleep you erase all the benefit. Sleep is very much like 
death, just less permanent. It is the overcoming of the mind by a blanket 
of dullness. Food makes you sleepy by filling you up; sex exhausts you, 
it makes you sleepy by draining you. Aghoris cannot afford the luxury 


(117) 


of relaxation; they have to be sharp at all times. They work all night 
long in the cremation ground (smashan), where drowsiness makes 
them much more susceptible to attack from spirits. In fact, in the case of 
three food, sleep, and sex the more you get from them, the more you 
want. Tantra aims to replace the limited personality with an unlimited, 
permanent one. An Individual may fail to become eternal but may in 
course of Tantric practice accumulate sufficient energy (shakti) to 
obtain some extra ordinary power, called a siddhi. As a common man 
we cannot go to forest for Sadhana, but it is well known in vedic 
literature that six year of Brahmacharya will develop great strength of 
ojas. Your aura or helo will develop to such an extent that whoever 
meets you, feel refreshed and relieved afterward. The Ojas will 
harmonize both you and those around you. One should try to. 
understand a Aghori Sadhu, whose friends and colleagues are all 
spirits. Whole idea of Tantra and Aghora is transmutation whether you 
make use of shaktis of spirits or deities or magical plants or whatever, 
transmutation is the goal. That is why some tankrika practice Alchemy 
and learn to transmute one metal into another in preparation for 
transforming themselves. Paramhansa Ramakrisha and Swami 
Vivekanand met Trailargaswami at Banaras. Traillongaswami was a 
great Aghori, who could transform his urine and feces to any object. He 
gave his shit to a British Magistrate for eating, when that Magistrate 
uncovered the food, he found a well toasted chicken, driping with gravy 
and ready to eat.. Tantra is limited by time, space and causation but 
Aghora is beyond all triads, all dualities, all limitations. If they want 
gold, they will piss on a rock it will be gold. Similarly they'll piss in 
your petrol tank which will be converted in petrol. Such is the power of 
mind. Mind is cosmic and unlimited. By "Yogic Practice" if mind is 
separated from sense organs and train the mind, then if automatically 
perceives without the media of sense organs. By tuning individual 
mind to the cosmic mind there is nothing that soul cannot acquire or 
experience or know. Seeing hearing, smelling things at a distance 
without the media of the sensing is known as Telepathy or Divya Dristi, 


(118) 


The power of telepathy can be used to locate minerals, natural oil, 
earthquakes, wars and the like. Dropadi's modesty was protected by 
Lord Krishna from the hundreds of miles away through telepathy only. 
Prevention of any occurrence of any event itself may not be possible, ~ 
but the magnitude and intensity of damage can be minimized. That is 
how telepathy helps mankind. Telepathy is again subdivided into three 
sections; clairvoyance precognition and psychokinesis. When a person 
can see an incident, before it actually took place in a dream, it is 
clairvoyance. Awareness of an event before it occurs is (this branch will 
help to avoid many accidents/health hazards) Precognitive 
Clairvoyance. Moving objects at will or materializing them is 
Psychokinesis. Psychic power like telepathy are the manifestations of 
the power of consciousness through organized matter, in the psychic 
body or the astral body. All powers of intellect are psychic power, we do 
not require instruments, money or material. All that is needed is the 
spiritual practice. There are many instances when a Aghori Sadhu 
cured Leprocy patients without medicines. So all the governments 
should explore this alternate methods of cure of dreaded diseases 
According to Chandrahari; an M-Tech (BHU) has written in his famous 
book "Hindu Zodiac and Ancient Astronomy", yogic body is a filament 
under illumination of time and it is this realization of time in yoga that 
made possible the creation of Kalachakra external or macrocosmic 
time synchronous with microcosmic time. The bio cosmic temporal 
continuum could thus be deciphered in terms of the rhythmic 
periodicities of the geometrical longitudes of “grahas’ and thus 
Jyotisha had its origin. Sigmund Freud (1856 1939) and his student 
Carl Jung developed mind science scientifically. In 1899 Freud 
published "Interpretation of Dreams” This book may be compared with 
Principia by Newton (1647), The dialogue of the two principal systems 
of the world (1632) by Galileo, Origin of Species by Darwin (1859). 
There is a tremendous power, which is working behind the all 
creations. Spiritual traditions have been based on the oneness one 
single source, takes root in our consciousness, can you see the profound 


(119) 


impact it would have? There is plenty of scientific evidence to prove 
that our consciousness can heal our body. Stress is the biggest killer in 
our society today. It causes diseases and leads to disease. But if we tune 
with ourselves, we are in tune with nature and in tune with the one 
source of everything: Then our stress dissolves‘and we instinctively 
know the right thing to do. We feel blissfully happy and see ourselves 
on whole and one with the universe. Blessed are they who see beautiful 
things in humble places where other people see nothing. There is a 
strong relationship between depression in elderly patients with 
diabetes and the degree to which they contro] their blood sugar levels. 
Elderly will not benefit from clinical intervention programmes unless 
their depression improves. Yoga practices really cures many diseases. 
Human differ from animal not only due to their vertical structure but 
also humans differ from rest of the creations by God (animals, insects, 
bacteria étc.) but also due to unsatiated desire to probe in to the mystery 
of the universe, one through spiritual view and. the another through 
scientific researches. 


ASTROLOGICAL CONCEPT OF MIND 


No body on earth can be a greater creator than Lord Brahma. Scientists 
are inventing many automatic machines, but think of about the 
motherhood phenomena ofa girl. Female body is a unique machine 
designed by God. When the baby is about to take birth milk oozes out of 
the breasts, when the baby is 3-4 years old, again milk tries to disappear. 
So is there any such a automatic machine discovered by a man? All 
sciences are encompassed from the mind of man and for this reason, 
mind is the greatest and most intricate studies of all sciences. The most - 
baffling of man's problems has always been mind. Westem science is 
proud that it has begun to conquer nature and is talking in terms of 
cosmic flights though compared to the dimensions of the cosmos, 
which, are inconceivable. The astronaughts orbiting the earth at a 
height of 200 miles seems a child's play. Now scientists are busy. in 
taking pictures of Uranus, Neptune and Pluto and planets bey ohd Pluto 
which are situated at an unimaginable distance from the earth. In 


(120) 


contrast to these achievements in the realm of physical science, there is 
a lamentable lack of development in the more important aspects of 
human existence, viz mental and moral sciences. The human mind and 
its mysterious functions continue to the mysteries to the western 
scientists. The mind is composed of various faculties, which fairly 
correspond with the convolutions of the brain. These faculties are 
phrenologically arranged in an ascending scale commencing with 
purely natural or animal faculties until the intellectual and reflecting 
group is reached. Two persons may have the same developments in any 
group of faculties but % marks obtained in an examination will be 
different and this accounts in the endless diversity of human characters. 
The brain rules the being; for it's the function of thought, the reservoir 
of cogitation; therefore the finer the development, the more perfect its 
balance; the greater its capacity for the comprehension and reflection, 
the more intense the ability to analyses and investigate, not only in 
physical but in metaphysical matters, in spiritual as well as in natural 
things. Gross materiality may become on obstruction and hindrance to 
intellectual progress. The great poet of all times Shakespeare has 
written in Macbeth: 


Canst thou minister to a mind diseased 
Pluckfrom the memory a rooted sorrow 
Raze out the written troubles ofthe brain 
And with some sweet oblivious antidote 


Cleanse the stuff'sbosom of that perilous matter which weighs upon the 
heart? 


Therefore, every individual should become cognizant of his/her own 
natural capabilities (mental as well as intellectual) and should continue 
to educate and improve those capabilities. Corrected brain and mind 
development may become a foundation of future honourable success 
and a means of ever lasting peace and happiness in life. Our fifth sense 
are: tongue, ear, eye, skin and nose. The sixth sense is our mind. Even 
the best doctor of this present dynamic world does not know where the 


(121) 


mind is situated in our body. Astrologically mind is divided into four 
major divisions. Super’ conscious (9 house), unconscious mind (6" 
house) subconscious mind (8" house) and the conscious mind (I" 
house). Lower mind is controlled form the 3x house. The mind has the 
ability to know and to interpret what is senses, both from the outer 
senses and inner senses of clairvoyance, clairaudience, clairsentience, 
love and centering. The mind is both creative (Rahu with contact of 8* 
lord gives birth to a new idea which is known as invention or discovery) 
constructive and destructive. It is like a sharp knife. We can use our 
mind any way we choose. According to rules of astrology, the 
disposition of the Moon and the 4" house disposition of Mercury 
explains the nature and structure of the brain. Mind is actually 
governed by Moon Manakaraka, Mercury buddhikaraka. Contact of 
Saturn and Rahu On these planets make the mind dull, revengeful and 
phobiatic. 5" house, 5” lord act as storehouse of intelligence. When 4” 
house, 5» house, Moon and Mercury are afflicted, mind becomes 
lunatic (Loses balance of judgment power).. Strong Sin house/5* lord 
provides excellent judgment power. Saturn controls the lower brain 
consciousness and Jupiter controls higher consciousness. God only 
writes sad episode about a person, whose Jupiter is found to be weak in 
a horoscope. Aspect of 6" lord on Jupiter is a grisly combination and is 
to be feared. All crude and limited minds are held by Saturn, and none 
can pass into the plane of Mercury until Saturn is passed. To identify 
ourselves without mind is to be under the sway of Saturn. The saturnine 
mind is united to the brain organ, and can never leave the concrete or 
purely objective. The unfettered mind is shown by Mercury, which is 
expansive and adoptable to higher and advanced thought, Mars 
quickens to action of Mercury, while Saturn retards and steadies the 
mental expression. Both these conditions, belong to the material or 
practical side ‘of expression, whereas Jupiter and Venus elevate into 
idealistic stated. To give every shade and colour to the mind the swift 
Mercury, who is "winged messenger of the Gods" form many 
Kaleidoscopic mental pictures during his cycle. During Mercury Rahu 


(122) 


or Rahu-Mercury dasa one suffers from fear complexes. Marriages 
conducted during the above dasa fails apart. Senses are quick or slow, 
in accordance with the position and aspects on Moon. Each of the five 
senses has ruler and each. is well developed or merely latent in 
accordance with the planet's strength or weakness; but whole of them 
are collected and manifested by Moon. The planetary vibrations are 
allied to the senses approximately as follows; Mercury - sight, Venus 
touch; Mars taste; Jupiter smell; Satum hearing; Neptune inner 
touch (Psychometry); Uranus provides inner sight (clairvoyance). It is 
probable that Vulcan, a planet to be rediscovered inner future, govern 
the inner hearing (clairaudience). We specialize the rays of Sun 
through a special organ in our body called spleen. The altered 
conditions of Sun's rays becomes vitality, it is a force’ pouring 
downward. In the same way the mind is an elemental essence which is 
pouring down into manifestation and as it passes through our brain, we 
specialize or educate it, moulding it by our will into thoughts forms 
which constitute the thought action, leading finally to actions. Actually 
luminaries control our eyesight for observing the external objects. 
Inner seeing is controlled by Mercury, the planet of reason and concrete 
mind in the physical mental world as most of us know it, largely 
govems our intelligence faculty (reason) and celebrate activity in 
general. Venus is associated with desire world, with love, art and 
creative expression, rules touch or feeling. Taste is ruled by Mars, the 
planet of aggression, sex and appetite, and no kind of appetite can be 
appeased or satiated without taste. Smell or scent is ruled by Jupiter, 
because it is fiery and expansive and rules the fire sign, Sagittarius fire 
is expensive and so is scent or smell as it pervades the atmospheres. 
Hearing is ruled by Saturn is the time recorder who partially listens and 
records. In the super physical extra sensory or psychic ability clear 
seeing and Western Astrologers think these are ruled by Uranus, 
Neptune and Pluto. Neptune governs the upper octave of Venus and 
controls inner touch. Pluto rules in the upper octave of Mars and control 
inner taste. Pluto is the sex God. In Hindu Astrology Ketu controls the 


(123) 


sixth sense or third eye. Ketu Jupiter in the 12" or Ketu aspected by 
Jupiter in the 12" helps anybody to climb very high in the spiritual field. 
Ketu aspected by Jupiter in the 5* / or 9» makes anybody extra 
intelligent person. The upper octave level of Mercury is controlled by 
Uranus. Aspect of Jupiter on Uranus in good houses makes anybody 
super intelligent. When Moon and sun are afflicted one does not live 
long. For a great prosperity, success, name and fame both Sun and 
Moon should be strong in the horoscope. That is why it is said that in the 
strength of Moon, lies the seed of the all the planets. The strong and 
brilliant Moon is advantageous in many ways, because it also rules ever 
the mind and, as we know, the entire universe is nothing but the 
material projection of the cosmic mind. In a nutshell if the mind would 
be healthy, tranquil and balanced thoughts and actions shall be in 
equilibrium and draw admirations and success in life. Nothing 
succeeds like success in life and a person blessed in the success is 
blessed by divinity. 


The 6” honse denotes diseases and Moon in 6" is highly susceptible to 
ailments especially in the childhood. An afflicted Moon in the 6 house 
often give an early death. it denotes scarcity in mental strength, and 
thereby the person can be mentally weak, ignorant to the extent of 
stupidity. If Moon is exalted in the 6n house, in the case of Sagittarius 
Lagna, it will provide a good career to the native. 6” house is the 9" of 
10"house. When Lagna, Moon, Sun and Lagna lord are strong, we have 
the case of very rich and successful people of the society. Moon allows 
to think for the common people strong Moon makes a man sympathetic 
in nature and 4" house of the Zodiac is the house of Moon and the fourth 
house from the ascendant represents common people or common man 
in general. When Moon or the 4" lord is posited in the 5" house, the 
native will be sympathetic for the common people. World renowned 
Nobel peace prize winner Mother Teresa had exalted Moon and Rahn 
in the 5" house (she had Capricorn Ascendant) Whether a person is trust 
worthy or not can easily be gleaned from his Moon. A good Moon 
basically implies a good mind. An afflicted Moon shows one who 


(1.24) 


cultivates associations and friendships with the primary objective of 
utilizing them in same way or the other for selfish interests. When Rahu 
is posited in 1°/4"/or 10" such a native do not hesitate to use one as a 
ladder for their selfish ends and once this is done will also have no 
qualms of mercilessly kicking them out of their lives. This aphorism is 
stunningly true to the knowledge of the author. Such natives are 
unscrupulous and do not hesitate to betray and back stab even whose 
who have reposed trust in them. They can also very cleverly manipulate 
others and use them to promote their schemes with no guilty feelings. 
When Moon is afflicted by Mars, Saturn or Rahu, such natives usually 
have no principles in life. One becomes a victim of betrayal when either 
the 11 th lord (showing friend) or the 3“ lord (associate) is in the 6”. 


Rahu dasa during childhood days (15-25) is not good, when its 
dispositor is afflicted in the birth chart. Rahu in Gemini is generally 
extolled, but if Mercury is afflicted one will have rolling stone in hand. 
He will have an unsound mind and will not be able to acquire higher. 
qualifications. The Moon in Cancer Lagna with digital strength made 
Jawaharlal Nehru sensitive and gifted with a fertile imagination that led 
him to make useful literacy continuations. Indira Gandhi with the 
Saturnine influence. on her Moon in Capricorn gave her an 
authoritarian streak, but also made her an adept in swaying the masses. 
The great Mughal emperor Akhbar had his Moon in Gemini aspected 
by Mercury and Jupiter, making him gentle human and abjuring 
religious fanatism. The Moon in Pisces ascendant fortified by the 
interchange of houses with Ascendant lord Jupiter, in exaltation in 5* 
conferred an intuitive and receptive mind on Nobel Laureate 
Rabindranath Tagore, enables him to come out with outstanding poetic 
and literary contributions, which won for him international acclaim. 
The Moon in debility in the horoscope of Albert Einstein derived his 
strength from exaltation of the dispositor Mars and disposition of four 
planets in the 5" (intellect) from the luminary to impart great mental 
power in the pursuit of scientific enquiry, enabling him to earn 
international recognition with the Nobel Prize. Mussolini had his 


(125) 


Moon in Taurus, but in the grip of Saturn and Mars imbued with a 
destructive mentality. Kerhadruma Yoga, an inauspicious yoga 
surfaces out when the adjacent houses.of Moon are vacant. This yoga 
can be seen even in the horoscopes of multimillionaire, who by 
constantly worrying about the future or due to some other perversion, 
choose to lead their lives in sucha way that they sometimes appear to be 
worse of than real beggars. When Moon is afflicted in the 12" house, 
one becomes odious to others and leads a miserable life. If both Moon 
as well as the 12"house are afflicted one can get disease to the left eye. 
The combination of Sun and Moon is not good for financial matters 
except in the 9* house: Conjunction of Moon and Mercury is good for 
information Technology and computer science. According to 
Varahamitir, the Moon refers to Devaloka. Thus the Moon in the role of 
atmakaraka (highest degree planet) gives godliness to the native if 
strong and well placed Jawaharlal Nehru had Moon as the atmakaraka 
planet in Cancer Lagna. For a Virgo Lagna Moon in 30° in Aries is 
much better than Zero degree in Taurus. The Association of atmakaraka 
with amatyakaraka is said to give Raja Yoga because the soul gets in 
built strength causing the native to gain recognition, for anything he 
does, among the mortals of the earth. Such natives image as gurus and 
leaders due to their innate superiority. Let us study the case history of a 
brilliant boy of Bengal. 


Example 6: DOB 9-5-1986,2-37 PM Kolkata. Virgo Ascendant, Libra 
Ketu, Scorpio Saturn, Aquarius Jupiter, Aries Moon 29°45", Sun 
24°47’, Rahu, Mercury 9°, Taurus Venus ; 
21° is a handsome boy with extraordinary 

intelligence level in computer science. He 

got 97% marks in Computer Science from 

CBSE XII Board, Delhi. He is now 

reading in the 3:4 year computer science in CY 

2007. The 11" house from atmakaraka is 

occupied by Jupiter, should fulfill his Vinen ; 
goals in life. He wants to acquire more and lame 


(126) 


more knowledge, not the money, because Jupiter is the bestower of 
deep knowledge to the native. Inspite of 4 planets in the 8" house, the 
dispositor in the 4" house from Lagna made his chart an unique one. 9° 
lord in 9” shaped his destiny in a nice manner. He is free from diseases 
for the exalted Moon, Sun, Jupiter in the 6n house, Venus in his own 
house in Taurus. When 6" house is influenced by benefics it acts as a 
Upachaya house. When 6" house is influenced by malefics it acts as a 
trika house and generates many diseases in the body. It is a divine grace 
to have 9" lord in 9m and natural benefic in the 10" house form 9" house 
ie in 6" house. When a Moon, Mercury combination occurs in a 
watery sign especially Pisces and Seorpio, we have demonic natures 
cloaked in an apparently attractive exterior, such natives can harbour 
horrendous levels of avarice, hate and jealousy and other morbid 
emotions that can lead to ruin, death and depravity. I know a case 
where the native having Sun, Moori and Mercury in her 7" house in 
Pisces engineered murder of her husband and children for insurance 
money. Moon represent all fluids including the hormones and blood. in 
the physical domain of the body, Moon rules the stomach, breasts, solar 
plexus, pancreas, all body fluids and the flow of secretions. A strong 
Moon well placed and well aspected is nothing short of a blessing from 
heaven. 


The aphorism is Lagnam Kotigunam Bhaveth, the ascendant is all 
important as having million of good/bad qualities, where as Moon is 
only a planet out of 12. 6/8 or 12/12 relationships of Jupiter and Moon 
have not been praised by our seers. It causes poverty. Even Jupiter is 
Scorpio. Lagna becomes weak, when Moon is placed in 6"/8"/] 2m from 
Jupiter. Jupiter in the 7m from Moon protects a girl form many 
humiliations in life. A strong Moon in the 3°/6"/9"/12" from Sun makes 
the native wise, wealthy and prosperous. The position of Moon in the 
natal chart plays a predominant role, indicating the native's immediate 
response to crises. AH spiritual leaders have the Moon in a powerful 
position in their horoscopes. Moon has the powerful influence on 


(127) 


emotional needs, reciprocation of feelings and mutual understandings, 
which in turn reflects behavioural patterns. It is said in Hindu Astrology 
that the Moon is the vital essence of all the planets " ftte Te ae ary” 
:the birjabala or internal strength of the planets depends on the strength 
of the Moon. The Raja Yoga guaranteed by other planets cannot fructify 
if Moon has no strength at the time of birth. Hence all the psychic 
energy of the mind are regulated by this vital planet of the Zodiac, 
Moon. Powerful Moon gives good sensation and feeling. It is the main 
ruler of emotion. The blood contains 90% water which is saline like sea 
water. MoOn has tidal effect on sea. Hence the tide and fall in human 
blood is controlled by the phases of the Moon. We shall and this article 
with the horoscope of an unfortunate man, who become lunatic after a 
tragic accident. 


Example 7. A story of a lunatic man : DOB 17-5-1970/ 
12.00PM/Delhi. Leo Lagna, Ketu, Virgo Moon, Libra Jupiter; 
Aquarius Rahu; Aries Mercury, Saturn; Taurus Sun, Mars; Gemini 
Venus. 


This is the horoscope of a young man who 7 
had problems soon after his birth in a rich Neo 
family. Father is a wealthy businessman, 


elder brother is a multimillionaire MD 
Medical Doctor in USA. Polio struck him 
when he was 6 months old, walked with 


iron rods at the age of 2. On 15-5-84, the 
entire family met a serious car accident Vo AS 
and this young boy got head injury, which 


later on turned him to a lunatic man. In 

2006 June, he sleeps, reads newspaper and spends time by wild 
dreaming, such as donation of 25000 crores of rupees to Ethiopian 
children etc. God was never kind to him, All the kendaras are occupied 
by malefics, debilitated Saturn in 9" with 11" lord Mercury aspected by 
8" lord Jupiter, spoiled Saturn. Mercury is spoiled by Saturn and Ketu. 


(126) 


6"/8"/1 2m houses of Moon are occupied by malefics So Moon is very 
weak in his horoscope. Moon is the mother of all planets. Weak Moon 
destroys all the Raja Yogas. Therefore Moon dasa at birth generated 
problems for him. He lost mental balance during Rahu-Rahu dasa on 
15-5-84. Rahu's dispositor Saturn is debilitated and is afflicted by 8" 
lord Jupiter and Ketu. So Rahu Rahu dasa spoiled him. Rahu's dasa is 
bad for any body when its dispositor is weak and afflicted. In astrology 
for judging mental health problem, three factors are of utmost 
importance i.e. ascendant (brain), Mercury (Intelligence) and Moon 
(Mind). As these are afflicted as explained above, he is suffering from 
loss of memory. Combustion of 9 lord added fuel to the fire. When 9n 
lord/9'!' house is weak, everything evaporates in air. According to 
Shivaji Bhattacharya (P & F, Jan 04 P 27) when Moon is in Virgo, 
Mercury if found in an adverse position of Moon, the education may 
suffer. His dispositor of Moon Mercury is placed in the 8” house from 
Moon, and afflicted by Saturn and 8" lord Jupiter. All the Kendras are 
influenced by malefics confirms his past sins. So we are amazed to see 
the accuracy of our sages in framing thonsands of subtle golden 
astrological rules for the benefit of our mankind. We should pay respect 
to these wise sages of yore, who developed astrology. 


DISEASE AND HORMONES 


The unit structure and function in the nervous systems is the neuron 
which is a single cell. Neurons are often very long. The longest neuron 
of human body reach from the ends of the fingers or toes to the spinal 
cord. The neurons are specialized for transmitting nerve impulses. A 
nerve impulse is an electromagnetic charge, along cell membrane, that 
begins to one end of the neuron and travels rapidly to the other. In some 
neurons of man, the nerve impulses has a speed of approximately 100 
meters/sec. In many of the lower animals the speed is much less. 
Animals can recognize three main structures related to stimuli and 
responses. The three structures are acceptors, neurons and effectors. 
We have receptors among which are those for touch, taste, smell, 
temperature, light and sound. Skin contains many receptors. The 


(129) 


principal effectors are «muscles and glands. In controlling body 
functions the nervous system and the endocrine system both really 
function in the same way by secreting substances. Neurons do the 
secreting in the nervous system. Endocrine glands do the secreting in 
the endocrine system. In man hormones are distributed almost entirely 
by the circulatory system. In a far instances they have local effects near 
the place where they are secreted. Co-ordination in multicellular 
animals are governed by nervous systems and endocrine systems. 
Coordination usually occur in the central nervous system (governed by 
Saturn): Body response is through contraction by muscles or secretions 
by glands (governed by Moon). The ultimate purpose of co-ordination 
is survival- by maintaining the normal homeostatic conditions for the 
life of cells and responding to the environment in such a way by as to 
make’ further homeostatic control more probable. But for Man and 
possibly a few other animals, there is an extra something. A large part of 
our relation to environment results in intellectual activity or in what can 
be described, inadequately to the sure, as feeling of pleasure. Walking 
upstairs rapidly or running conditions make your muscle cells more 
active. ATP changes to DTP, energy is transferred. Glucose is oxidized 
changing ADP back to ATP, oxygen. combines with all the extra 
hydrogen atoms produced. As a result the muscle cells require more 
oxygen than when at rest. The overall result of the breaking of the 
glucose molecule is as follows :. 


C,H,,0,+6H,O - 6CO,4+24H 


Within the all, therefore glucose is broken down to form carbon dioxide 
molecules and hydrogen atoms. Most of the CO, leaves the cell as a 
waste product, since much more is produced than the cell user. The 
hydrogen atoms one of great importance. In fact they will provide most 
of the energy needed to convert ADPto ATP. 

C.H,,0,+60, — 6 CO,+6H,O + chemical energy + ATP -P > ATP + 
P-—> Biosynthesis + heat + muscular contraction 


Living cells require energy for their activities. The ultimate source of 


(130) 


this energy is sunlight. The energy is captured in the C-H bonds of 
glucose and other organic components. With in a cell, these organic 
compounds are oxidized in small steps with the liberation of large 
amounts of energy. The energy is used to make ATP from ADP. The ATP 
is then the intermediate source of energy in the cell. Regular exercise or 
walking or certain pranayams (follow Ramdev of Astha channel) keeps 
the body fit and make it free from diseases. Try to push your belly inside 
and then take more air inside your body. The new Oxygen will charge 
the tired battery installed by God at the time of birth (known as 
Chetana). 


Hormones are known to be important substances for controlling 
biological processes in many kind of animals. Most of our knowledge 
of them is restricted to man and other animal with backbones Endocrine 
glands are regulators of the body. These glands secrete thousands of 
different types of hormones directly into our blood. And so the proper 
functioning of these controllers of our body is very important and most 
vital for sound health. The main function of these glands are to maintain 
the metabolism of the body, regulate the functions of all the organs and 
the brain, adjust the body against changing environment and thus 
protect the body against any illness by means of chemicals called 
hormones. Immunity system of the body is largely controlled by these 
glands. These glands play a vital role not only in the development of our 
body and mind but also in the development of our looks and even 
character. Thus they play a vital role in our well being and happiness. 
The glands that secrete hormones are known as endocrine or ductless 
glands (duct = tube trough which liquid passes) to distinguish them 
from exocrine, or duct glands. Endocrine glands empty their secretions 
into the blood, which there carries the hormones round the body. 
Exocrine glands empty their secretions via ducts into particular areas of 
the body. Salivary glands are exocrine glands. The pancreas is both an 
exocrine and an endocrine gland for it empties enzymes into the 
duodenum through a pancreatic duct and also releases hormone, 
insulin, into the blood. There are nine ductless glands. 


(131) 


Pituitary gland (governed by Sun, Mars and Moon) : This is 
regarded as the "conductor of endocrine orchestra". Its hormones 
regulate the secretions of hormones from all the endocrine 
glands. The Sun is the ruler of the front pituitary gland while the 
back pituitary is the ruled by Moon and Mars. The front pituitary 
is the gland of intellect. Aprominent front pituitary tends to a tall 
body and a strong intellect and to masculine expression. Men 
with weak front pituitary tend to be famine in expression i.e. lack 
boldness in replying questions. Pituitary secretion -ntrol the 
secretions of thyroxin by thyroid gland, influence thi rate of 
bone and body growth, the secretions of milk by m. nmary 
glands, the development of ovary and testes, the activity of the 
adrenal cortex, the removal of water (ruler Mars) from the 
nephrons of the kidney and the contraction of the muscles of the 
uterus. The back pituitary establishes a link in the glandular 
system. It is wonderful to note that this gland has control over all 
the processes that the Moon rules blood pressure, period of 
gestation, mental disposition etc. An over active back pituitary 
causes the water to be retained in the system. An active thyroid 
however drives the water away. Somatotrophic hormones (STH) 
influence growth. over activity of the tissues results in 
accelerating growth in children, or giantism. Depending on the 
degree of over production, an adult can grow to a height in excess 
of nine feet. Under activity of the tissue producing 
somatotrophins results in dwarfism, a condition in which the 
growth of the child remains within 5 feet. In all 26 hormones are 
secreted by the pituitary. It is observed that children whose 
pituitary glands does not function properly, tend to become 
bullies, disobedient, liars, vagrants and it can even lead them to 
steal. When Lord of Lagna, sign Aries, Sun and Mars are afflicted 
or posited in evil houses, they all generate diseases concerning 
pituitary gland. All glands are ruled by Venus. So Venus should 
also be afflicted. 


(132) 


Pineal Gland (ruled by Ketn and Moon): It is situated in the 
middle of the brain and is very important. Biologists suspect that 
is an endocrine gland but they have not yet discovered its 
function or its hormones. According to Lankford, the pineal 
gland is partly glandular and a partly nervous structure, and is 
known to be center of sensation and emotions, at the same time it 
rules and directs all the ductless glands and the vegetative 
nervous system, thereby governing all the functions of organic 
life. It is also serves as acommunicator centre between brain and 
other organs. The pineal gland is also associated with psychic 
and spiritual powers. Therefore we are inclined to feel that pineal 
gland is partly influenced by Ketu and partly by Moon. 
Premature development of sex system is due to malfunctioning 
of this gland. 


Thyroid gland (Governed by Jupiter and Sun): It is located 
in the throat. It secretes Thyroxin C,,H,,O,J,N. It was first 
isolated by Kendall(1919) and by Harington (1930) as a white 
crystalline solid, m.p 235°C. presence of iodine in the molecule 
of thyroxin, forced doctors to use iodine in salts. A lack of iodine 
in food or water. In absence of iodine swelling of the neck occurs 
(goiter is the disease). Thyroxin accelerates oxidation of food 
during internal respiration. Too little thyroxin exhibits, tiredness 
and mental retardation: An excess amount make a man lean and 
energetic. Too excess secretion leads to fatigue, weight loss, 
anxiety, sweating, diarrhea and intolerance to heat. Therefore, 
the secretions of this gland are necessary for the proper 
functioning of the mind. When Sun and Jupiter are strong in the 
horoscope, it indicates a strong thyroid, the subject being active 
mentally and physically. They are very energetic people. Thyroid 
is a small nutterfly haped gland located in the neck below the 
voice box. If Sun and Jupiter are in conjunction with or 
powerfully aspected by Saturn, Rahu or Mars without 


(133) 


corresponding benefic aspects, thyroid gland of the native is a 
abnormal or subnormal. It will make the person morose, given to 
looking dark side of life and finding fault with everything and 
everybody, such a person is frequently overweight. Thyroid 
disorders are common, effecting more women than man. When 
eyes and enlarged it is exothalmic goiter. Injection of calcium or 
parathromone may be given for recovery. Sea fish containing 
much phosphorus will remove this disease. Genius is a matter of 
thyroid gland. The significators of 9" Bhava are Sun and Jupiter. 
So when Sun and Jupiter and 9" house are strong, genius people 
are born, when 9* house is strong, happy events in life should be 
foretold. Science appears to be greatly interested in the thyroid 
glands. The world famous originator of grafting technology Dr. 
Serge Voronoff grafted the thyroids glands of monkeys into man. 
With this technology, he cured mentally deficient people. An 
Israeli Dr. Reuven Feuerstein, has developed "Feuerstein 
Method" for helping low performance or retarded youngsters. It 
offers 14 sets of exercises which aim to improve intelligence and 
the ability to learn. It has been translated into some 17 languages 
and is currently being taught in about 55 countries. Robert 
Sternberg, IBM professor of Psychology and Education at Yale 
University, comments, "Feuerstein will be remembered as one of 
the truly major figures of the 20" century in the human abilities 
movement. He has made a remarkable contribution to our 
understanding of abilities and their modifiability. 


Parathyroid gland (Governed by Saturn and Mercury) : 
these are embedded in the thyroid gland. Their hormones 
controls body use of calcium and phosphorus. Too little of the 
hormone reduces the calcium level * and increases the 
concentration of phosphorus, and it is this that course bone to 
become brittle. The overworking of this gland leads to 
overweight, bulging, eyes, goiter and a tendency to become a 


(134) 


bully twisting of muscles, teeth problems. dullness of brain etc. 
These glands also secrete a liquid destined to govern the activity 
of our nervous cells. Evidently these glands are ruled by Saturn 
and Mercury.. Saturn is the lord of central nervous system and 
Mercury is the lord of peripheral nerve system. Deprived of 
secretion of the para-thyroids. the nerve system loses control of 
its actions. All the nervous cells enter into a state of mad 
excitation and the patient dies in frightful convulsions in a few 
days. When Saturn and mercury are afflicted, the body is reacted 
upon through para-thyroids which are four in number, secreting 
the hormone parathynin. When Saturn joins Mars and Rahu the 
body tends to lose calcium, the sodium in the body is affected and 
extreme nervousness is caused. Such a subject should use foods 
rich in calcium. vitamin-D or sunlight must be supplied This will 
ease the strain on para-thyroids and general tension under which 
the body labours. 


Thymus gland (Governed by Moon) : lt secretes thymin 
hormone which helps the growth of moustache and beard and it 
works upto the age of 12-16. in excess secretion, the native 
behaves like a boy (suffers from dullness). Antibodies are 
generated by this gland. The thymus is the organ through which 
the child receives mother's blood necessary to build the body. 
Since Moon is the karaka planet for mother it is reasonable to 
think that Moon rules thymus. The hormone in the thymus keep 
the lymphatic cells in normal quality and the body is protected 
against infection. The afflicted Moon acts on the Thymus and 
Vitamin B may added in the diet. Since mind is controlled by 
Moon, there all decisions and indecisions of mind are controlled 
by the Thymus. Child gets sick, in case this gland becomes active 
after 16, it brings dullness. Afflictions of Moon has not been 
praised by our seers. Moon becomes strong, when it kendras are 
occupied by benefics or yogakaraka. Aspect of Jupiter on Moon 
reduces much evil in life. When Moon becomes weak, other 


(135) 


planets also become weak. So Moon is the mother of all the 
planets. A child born with a large thymus gland continues to get 
bigger during childhood. When a child reaches the age of 13-14, 
the thymus begins to shrink. As long as the thymus gland is 
working, the sex glands are small. As the sex glands develop, the 
thymus gland stops working, this is why when a person has 
become sexually mature at the age of 22, he stops growing. 
Sometimes the sex gland develop too soon and slow up the 
thymus gland too early. This makes a man below average in 
height. Ifthe sex glands develop too late, the thymus continues 
working and the person becomes taller than the average. After 40 
or so we shrink about half an inch every ten years. The reason for 
this 1s the drying up of the cartilages in our joints and in the spinal 
column as we get older. 


Pancreas gland (Governed by Mars, Jupiter and Venus) : 
The islets of langerhans, which are located in the pancreas, 
secrete insulin. This hormone has an important role in 
controlling the way glucose is used in the body. Familiar disease 
diabetes mellitus is a result of abnormal functioning of the islets 
of langerhans. A deficiency of insulin reduces the ability of the 
body to oxidize sugar. Large amount of sugar and water are 
excreted in the urine. Urine examination should be done 
periodically for people above 40 to detect diabetes. Excess sugar 
in the blood can also harm the other organs of the body as the eyes 
and nerves and the patient can also develop non-healing ulcers. 
Take sulphur drugs, Neem leaves (20/day), and Karela juice, 
germinated grams mixed with curd 50 gm/day for one month. 
Poet Rabindranath Tagore who lived for 80 yrs used to drink 
Neem juice daily. Jupiter indicates plenty, which therefore 
mainly controls the gland. Venus controls kidneys, blood is 
controlled by Moon and Mars. When Jupiter is afflicted one likes 
rich foods. The excess of the food may poison the blood and 
could cause a toxic condition. 


(136) 


Adrenal Gland (Governed by Mars, Venus and Jupiter): In 
human beings adrenal glands are located on the top of each 
kidney. Each adrenal gland consists of two distinct but intimately 
connected points, the core or medulla and the outer coat or 
cortex. An insufficient secretion of hormones from cortex results 
in an affliction called "Addition Disease". The sufferer becomes 
sexually impotent. An excess secretion may result in over 
development of the sex organs and premature ageing. In women, 
masculinization takes place, the breasts decreasing in size and 
deep voice developing along with the growth of hair on the face. 
The author first saw hairs on the faces of women in a Landon park 
in 1982. It controls production of biles and controls liver and flow 
of blood. Overworking leads to high BP. More biles lead to 
acidity and vomiting and severe headache. Let us study the 
horoscope of a female, who has developed hair on her face and 
masculine behaviour. 


Example 8. Beard of a woman : DOB 31-12-1981/11-37 
PM/Calcutta, Virgo - Ascendent Mars, Saturn; Libra Jupiter; 
Sagittarius Sun, Mercury, Ketu; Capricorn Venus; Aquarius 
Moon, Gemini Rahu. 


She is in the final year of computer 
science M.Tech in "A" grade college 

in 2006. She will come out with this 
degree in July 2007. Her Moon and 

Sun are posited in positive signs 
increasing her masculine 
characteristics. Her Jupiter is 
debilitated in Navamsa. Since 
Venus is in the house of Saturn and 
Saturn-Mars conjunction in Lagna : 
is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis, we can assume her both Venus and 


Mars are afflicted. Malefics in Lagna spells trouble for the native 
conjunctions of 6"/8"/12" lords will multiply problems for the 


(137) 


native since Saturn is posited with 8" Jord Mars, we find she has 
weak 8" lord, weak Saturn. For a prosperous life one should have 
strong Saturn, strong 8" lord, and a clean 9” house. Her 9" lord is 
posited in 5" and Jupiter occupies the 10” house from 9" lord. For 
this good yoga she is taking the highest education available in the 
country. Her weak 4* lord (it is debilitated in navamsa) added 
fuel to the fire. She is mentally. disturbed for the appearance of 
beard on her female face. Parijata Yoga is helping her to come up 
in life from a middle class family of Bengal, Her lord of lagna is 
placed in a square, whose dispositor is posited in the 2" house, 
whose dispositor Venus is placed in the 5" house, forming this 
rare yoga. 


8. Sex Glands (Governed by Mars and Venus): The testes of the 
male, in addition to producing sperms, secrete testosterone. It 
influences the change of voice, and other events involved in the 
maturing of the male. The ovaries of the female secrete several 
hormones that influence the maturing of the female and are 
necessary for the prenatal development of the human infant. The 
ductless glands are the most mysterious organs in the human 
body but the planetary influences are much more mysterious for 
they reveal what exactly a man in his physical, mental and moral 
set up. The living organism is a highly tuned and sensitive 
machine, it can make readjustments which enable it to go on 
living. For example, the heart can continue to operate after 6/10" 
of its tissue has been destroyed, and a man can go on living with 
only/ 1/3" of his liver and 2/3" of one remaining kidney. All 
animals and planets exist in a state of fine chemical balance with 
slight changes in varying extents, Co-ordination and chemical 
control of the body is done by these ductless glands. 


Less functioning of thyroid, parathyroid, sex glands and adrenal 
glands cause Arthiritis, Paralysis and stroke. Take 8 pills of 
Calcaria Phos 200X once a week and 8 pills of Calcaria Phos 30X 


(138) 


daily for 40 days. Use blue light on the affected parts. Ketu and 
Moon rule the pineal gland. If well developed, glands give one or 
more types of psychic ability. Location of ductless glands in the 
body are as follows : 


mb WN = 


. Pineal gland in the base of the brain. 

. Pituitary gland in the centre of head behind the nose. 

. Thyroid gland In the throat, above the wind pipe. 

. Thymus gland between the lung and above the heart. 

. Parathyroid gland beside or behind the thyroid and some may 


be within the chest region of the thymus gland. 


. Adrenals above the kidneys 
. Spleen At the left side of the stomach, in the upper part of he 


abdominal cavity. 


. Pancreas Behind the stomach in the abdomen. 
. Gonards (Ovaries and testes) Sex glands. The pineal gland 


seems to be the king of the ductless gland, supervising the 
others and controlling and regulating mental and bodily 
developments, although scientists know very little about it 
and often omit it in a discussion of glands. If the pituitary 
gland that controls height, nervous energy and sexual 
developments is removed, death occurs in two or three days. 
The thyroid is the main energy gland, regulates the iodine 
supply, controls the growth of the body and mind, increases 
or depletes one's energy according to its condition. The 
brain cannot function without it. The thymus gland probably 
promotes bone as well as sexual growth. The parathyroid 
glands are concerned with the regulation of phosphorus and 
calcium in the body. Ifthe adrenals, which have to do with 
physical and nervous endurance, are removed, death occurs 
very soon. The spleen aids digestion and manufacture WBC. 
The pancreas is a sort of salivary gland in the abdomen, 
secretes insulin which breaks the sugar to glucose and 
fructose and aids digestion. Astrologically, the planets and 


(139) 


luminaries are not mere meaningless bodies or automatons 
wandering in the heaven but rather they are intelligences 
representing and ruling different areas and department of the 
body, mind and soul. The Sun for instance, is riot simply a large 
globular, gaseous mass of heat and light, but represents the soul, 
one's urge or drive for significance and is in fact the source of all 
life and its vitality. Jupiter is the most benefic planet in the divine 
cabinet which stands for wealth and success. and recovery power 
from diseases. 


Role Of Minerals On Health: 


Only very small or trace amounts of the following minerals are needed 
for normal body requirements, chromium (mushroom, peas), copper 
(liver), calcium (milk), magnesium (leafy green vegetables), 
phosphorous (fish, meat), fluoride (tea), iodine (iodized salt), iron 
(liver, egg, leafy vegetables), manganese (tea, nuts, pomegranates), 
molybdenum (nuts, liver) selenium (seafood, garlic), zinc (yogurts, 
nuts). Very less amount of lead is available in all municipal drinking 
water. Trace levels of lead increase IQ values. High levels of lead are 
very toxic in nature. Always use cold water for cooking. Avoid hot 
water from the tap for this purpose. 


VITAMINS AND DISEASES 


In 191] two scientists, F.C. Hopkins and Casimir Funk, made the 
discovery that the human body requires something in addition to sugar, 
fat, proteins, salts and water. Without these traces certain foods cannot 
be utilized within the body, and it was shown by experiments on various 
animals that different organic substances were essential for the 
assimilation and use of specific foods. Whatever these substances were 
only minute quantities needed. Name Vitamin was first given by 
Professor Funk. Originally, Vitamins were thought to be organic 
catalysts or enzymes, because only minute amounts were required in 
the digestion of food. It is now known that they function as copartners 
to various enzymes. Some vitamins are soluble in water and other in 


(140) 


oil. The water soluble vitamins are the B complexes, and C, and these 
are the vitamins which pass out into water when food is cooked. The oil 
soluble vitamins are A.D, E and K, are retained within the cooked food. 
The oil soluble vitamin require bile from the liver before they can be 
released for absorption into the body. Today, science has come a long 
way toward learning what man must eat in order to be healthy. Some of 
the needs are for simple compounds, such as pure water and trace 
amounts of iodine. His food should also supply a balanced amount of 
proteins and carbohydrates. To construct some of our important 
enzymes, we need special organic molecules produced by green plants. 
We get them in amount | Omg a daily supply or ascorbic acid (Vitamin 
C), for human body cannot store it. He also requires frequent 
replacement of those Vitamins he can store, carotene (convertible into 
Vitamin A) thiamine (B,) riboflavin (B,orG), niacin (P-P), folic acid, 
cyanocobalamin (Vitamin B,,), calciferol (Vitamin D) phylloquinone 
(Vitamin K,) and possibly still others. Vitamin A deficiency is a major 
source of blindness. 


History of Vitamins : The idea of vital substances existing hidden in 
food stuffs is very old, although people were aware of it consciously. 
Father of medicine Hippocrates (460-370 BC) was actually 
recommending liver for night blindness. He was contemporary of 
Socrates (469-399 BC), the most learned man of Greece at that time. 
The American Indian were suggesting vitamin C in the same manner 
when they produced a leafy brew in Quebec for the French explorer 
Jacques Cantlier's (1491-1557) scurvy ridden man. In 1497 when 
Vasco de Gamia sailed round the Cape of Good Hope, 100 out his 160 
men died of scurvy. For the next 300 yrs scurvy was a major factor 
determining the success or failure of all sea adventures even after 
recognized by Lind 1753 and by captain James Cook (1728- 1779) that 
it results from the prolonged consumption of a diet devoid of fresh fruit 
and vegetables. He made lime juice mandatory for his crew, he was 
only recommending Vitamin C without knowing it. A scientist named 
Hawkins (1593) found that orange lemons were effective, a disease 


(141) 


particularly among seaman. In the same 18" century cod-liver oil, rich 
in vitamin A and D achieved fame in industrial England as a cure all 
primarily because it was rectifying prevailing dietary in adequacies. A 
century later the Japanese were fighting beri-beri by giving them 
barley. Vitamin BI deficiency causes this disease. The structure of 
vitamin C was elucidated by Haworth, Hirst and their co-workers 
(1932,1933). The molecular formula was shown to be C,H,O,. Vitamin 
C behaves as an unsaturated compound and a strong reducing agent; it 
also forms a phenylhydrazone and gives a violet colour with ferric 
chloride. Structural formula of L ascorbic acid is: 


|——__0 — 
co a ¢ CH, CH. .CHOH L ascorbic acid 
OH OH OH 


In the early twentieth century, in first world war, food deficiencies 
caused a great spur in research in vitamin. Around 1930 scientists 
found about 40 vitamins,. at least a dozen of which are essential to 
human beings. Professor A.S. Romer has called them "the odd and each 
of vitally needed materials". Others have called them hormones 
produced outside the body. One of the dominate characteristics of 
vitamins is the extremely small amounts need to keep a person healthy. 


Lack of vitamins causes a variety of diseases. Vitamin A, derived from 
carotene, a common substance in carrots and other yellow or orange 
plants is necessary for sensitive vision in semidarkness and a 
deficiency causes night blindness. We need 0.75 mg vitamin daily and 
about 22 gms in our total life span for about 80 yrs. Excess vitamin A 
can cause nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, sleep disorders, diseased 
skin and an enlarged liver. It may be of some interest to know that polar 
bear liver is an extremely rich source of vitamin A. Eskimos do not eat 
its liver (to protect themselves from toxic effect of vitamin A), nor do 
they give it to dogs. Even if given to doges, they instinctively avoid it. It 
is estimated that the liver of one polar bear may contain as much as 3 gm 
of vitamin A, which might seem very small but will appear large, when 


(142) 


we realize that his quantity is the average man's 10 year requirement. 
Dear parents do not allow your children to eat liver (of chicken, goat, 
ship, ox or other birds) and kidney. Give them sufficient yellow fruit 
juices (carrot, papaya, ripe guava, red pineapple, etc). Strength of 
Jupiter increases with intake of all yellow fruits made by God. God 
only writes sad episode about a person whose Jupiter is found weak in 
the horoscope. Jupiter is the lord of happiness, lord of wealth, health, 
wisdom etc. We synthesise vitamin D through our skins in contact with 
sunlight. Both A and D in excess amount are harmful for our body. 
Excess A and D cannot be excreted through urine. When they pile up in 
the body, they create serious problems. Remember vitamins are needed 
only in trace amounts. Vitamins B, and B, occur in whole grains of such 
cereals as corn, wheat, and rice. They are necessary for carbohydrate 
metabolism and a deficiency of them brings about disturbances of the 
nervous system, muscle paralysis, dry skin and clouding of the lens or 
cataract. Milk, egg, green leafy vegetables, meat fish, cereals, pulses, 
fruits, groundnuts, will supply B, and B, vitamins. Vitamin C is found 
in most fruits, but particularly in citrus fruits as oranges, lemons and 
grape fruit. This vitamin is necessary for the oxidation of amino acids 
and consequently the synthesis of proteins within the body tissues. 
Vitamin C deficiency effects the blood vessels, which may become 
fragile and burst, a condition known as scurvy. A lack of vitamin C also 
weakens bone structure and connective tissues and a lack of vitamin C 
there is swelling and bleeding of gums. The person becomes anaemic 
and susceptible to all kinds of infections. Vitamin C is the safest remedy 
for common cold, which prevents the formation of gall stones. This 
vitamin is important for the formation and maintenance of collagen, a 
protein widely distributed in the body. Collagen is the cementing 
material that holds the cells of the body together. It helps the production 
of tissues for quick post-operative healing and the maintenance of 
previously formed scar tissue. Vitamin C is essential for the reduction 
of ferric to ferrous in gastro-intestinal tract, so to facilitate the 
absorption of iron. It plays an important role in the normal metabolism 


{143)" 


of amino acids, tyrosine and in the function of adrenal gland. Fresh 
fruits and vegetables (when the vegetables become dry and stale most 
of the vitamin C originally presenting them is destroyed) are the main 
sources of vitamin C. Amla (Indian gross berry), orange, grapes, 
melon, pineapple, guava, leafy green vegetables, cabbage, mangoes, 
tomatoes are good sources of vitamin C. Dry pulses do not contain 
vitamin C but when they are allowed to sprout, vitamin C is formed in 
the grain and sprout. Fresh milk and meat contains only small 
quantities of vitamin C. human milk contains more vitamin C than 
cow's milk. The requirement of vitamin C is at least 50 mg daily. There 
is also an increased requirements of this vitamin during treatment with 
drugs, exposure to cold, infection and prolonged fevers. When there is 
loss of appetite, there is painful limbs, one should take excess vitamin 
C. B,,B, and vitamin C are destroyed by heat. Vitamin D is known as 
the sunshine vitamin because the body is able to make it when the skin 
is exposed to ultraviolet rays of sunlight. The oils of fish livers are rich 
in vitamin D. Margarine, Vanaspathi, butter, also supply vitamin D. A 
deficiency retards chemical reactions associated with the bone forming 
salts of calcium and phosphorus artd the bones become soft and 
malformed. This disease is known as rickets. Defective tooth 
development may also result from a lack of this vitamin. Total 
requirement is 0.0025mg/day and 0.08 gms or 80 mg in whole life. 
Vitamin E is required during the early development of the embryo and 
for certain stages of respiration, This vitamin is widely distributed in 
plants. A deficiency may lead to muscular atrophy (wasting away) and 
abnormalities of the eye. We need about 10mg of this vitamin E/day. 
Oils from soybeans, sunflower, corn and cottonseed, nuts, wide range 
of vegetables food supply us vitamin E. So many fable myths are 
prevalent in the public mind about vitamin E, so that it should be called 
myth vitamin. Like some magic elixir, vitamin E is believed to cure 
impotency, infertility (infact it is called the infertility vitamin by some), 
heart disease, diabetes and muscle disorders. Unfortunately some 
* people believe that vitamin E is essential for skin and still some believe 


(144) 


by a relentless barrage of advertisement) That this vitamin can be 
absorbed through the skin, through such agents as soaps, fortified with 
vitamin E. It is pathetic to see people spending hard earned money on 
soaps fortified with vitamin E, of course vitamin E; or for that matter 
any vitamin, cannot be absorbed through the skin and surely it is not the , 
skin vitamin. In case of arthritis take vitamin E tablets. Consult a 
physician. Recent studies have shown‘low vitamin E can cause 
Asthma. Expectant mums should ensure. they get enough Vitamin E. 
Vitamin E (tocopherols) has beneficial effect on the developing lung, 
the university of Aberdeen Researches believe it (TOI Sep 5, 2006P 29) 
Eggs, Vegetables oils, margarine and mayonnaise nuts and seeds 
fortified cereals contain enough Vitamin E. Vitamin K can be 
synthesized by intestinal bacteria (just like vitamin B,.). long term 
administration of antibiotics kill these friendly bacteria and any person 
of antibiotic therapy will need additional vitamin K (and B,, too). It is 
found in high concentration in tomato and tomato juice. This vitamin is 
essential in the process of blood clotting, and.a deficiency may lead to 
hemorrhaging from quite small wounds, Dark green leafy vegetables, 
cow milk, fruit contains Vitamin K. We need 2 mg vitamin K per day or 
59 gm in whole life. Most of the vitamins if taken excess, are rejected 
by the body and go down the drain through urine (not A and D). AIL B,, 
B2, B,, B,, B,, B, and B,,, are provided to the body by milk, egg, fish, 
meat, cereals (rice and wheat), pulses, liver, kidney, green leafy 
vegetables, fruits and cheese: Most B complex vitamins (as also C) 
suffer during boiling. Heating causes them to diffuse out into the 
cooking water. In India, the water after cooking rice is thrown away. 
Vitamin B, (thiamine) is readily lost from rice during the process of 
milling. Thiamine is also lost from fruits and vegetables during 
prolonged storage. That is why fruits and vegetables should be 
consumed fresh. Thiamine is destroyed in toast and in cereals cooking 
with baking soda. The main source of thiamine in the diet of Indian 
people are the cereals (rice and wheat) which contribute about 80% of 
our total amine requirement (2mg daily). Cereals and pulses are 


(145) 


relatively poor sources of vitamin B, (riboflabin), but because of the 
bulk in which they are consumed by Indian people, they contribute 
much of the riboflavin we need (2.5mg daily). Germination increases 
the riboflavin content of pulses and cereals. Milk proteins (Paneer) is a 
rich source of B, (niacin). 60 mg ofa amino acid tryptophan found in 
Paneer releases I mg of niacin. Meat, fish liver, egg, vegetables provide 
B, in our body. The name of folic acid comes from the Lati.: word folia, 
which means leaf; so quite naturally green leafy vegetables-are quite a 
rich source of folic acid (B,), overcooking destroys folic ac. Infact 
folic acid deficiency has been reported in babies given milk food 
subjected to heat sterilization. Vitamin B ,,,cyanocobalamine is the anti 
pemicious anemia factor, and has been isolated from liver extract. 
Folic acid also has anti-pernicious obtained as a red crystalline 
substance and the elements present have been shown to be C\H.N,T, 
Co, Liver is the main storage site of B ,,.about 2 mg is stored in the liver 
and another 2 mg elsewhere in the body. These stores can tide over any 
deficiency for 1 to 3 years because of this reserve, deficiency of B,, is 
very rare. It can resist heat. It is required in extremely minute quantities 
and get when that "speak" is not present serious disorders can result. 
Vitamins are the craze of the day. Many advertisements on TV, radio 
and in newspapers stress the importance of vitamins. People are made 
to believe that if they or their children regularly take the vitamin tablets 
of a particular company, they would become superman. Vitamins are 
undoubtedly essential to health and innumerable false beliefs in the 
minds of common people. Milk, curd, cereals, pulses, meat or fish or 
Paneer salad and some green vegetables will keep any body healthy 
through his life. Ice-cream,. Pastry. Coke, samosas increase, 
body weight. Try to remain slim, trim and smart. ,One should never give 
trouble to his stomach, too much foods destroys health? Author was 
surprised in USA, when he found most of the Americans are overeaten 
They consume 15-40 kg of food daily (3 liters milk, 4 liters of orange 
juice, I dozen egg, I kg meat, % kg potato, some rice, 0.5 kg ice cream, 


(146) 


1 kg bread, 2 kg fruits, 5 liters of beer and choicest varieties of wine. 
They keep their mouth busy with chewing gums. They consume 
maximum food at he breakfast time and again in the evening just 
between 06-7:30 PM) and are fond of sports (tennis, swimming, 
baseball). Many overweight person are visible in every downtown 
(150-250kg). Even when best medical care is combined with good 
nutrition, life is not prolonged: indefinitely. Every body has to die 
embracing diseases (heart attack, kidney failure, meningitis are the 
actual sources of death) 


Saturated And Unsaturated Oil: 


The haman body is a complex and wonderful machine. Unsaturated 
fats are usually liquid at normal room temperature and are known as 

. oils. Fish oils, groundnut oil, mustard oil, sunflower oil, corn oils are all 
unsaturated fats which we use in our cooking. Saturated fats are solid at 
room temperature (Dalda Ghee, Desi Ghee butter, tallow, coconut and 
palm oils are saturated in nature). Thus on one hard unsaturated fatty 
acids are best and mandatory for life, on the other hand, saturated fatty 
acids are harmful. Excessively fat laden diet, especially with saturated 
kind, is a positive threat for your heart. Saturated fat is directly linked to 
vascular and heart disease. For metabolism of mineral elements, 
vitamins contained in fruits and vegetables are indispensable for 
human body. Rich fiber content of fruits and vegetables help in regular 
bowel movement and maintaining tone and tenor for the intestinal tact. 
For good health, food alone is no solution. What you need is a well 
regulated lifestyle and daily routine. Brisk walking, cycling aerobics 
and even a more formal workout in a gymnasium. These will help you 
consume your surplus body energy, as also give many indirect benefits. 
During fat digestion, lipids (fats and oils of living organisms) are 
broken down to fatty acids and glycerol (CH,OH. CHOH- CH,OH) by 
hydrolysis in the presence of enzymes. 


YOGA MEDITATION AND HEALTH 
Paramhasa Yogananda (1913-1992) was the first great Indian Master of 


(147) 


Yoga whose mission was to live and teach in USA. His classic book 
autobiography of a yogi helped to start and continue to sustain current 
spiritual renaissance in the West. Yoganand's teaching and continuing 
spiritual presence are the foundation of Ananda, run by Swami 
Kriyananda, an American, who has written 85 books up to 2006 
Ananda Sangha Activities are found in Delhi and Mumbai Swami 
Ramdev of Patanjali Yoga Centre Haridwar opened Astha channel in 
TV and popularized Kriya Yogas in India between 2000-2006. Really 
these yogas help to overcome many common diseases. Many books 
written by Swami Ramdeva are available in all bookstalls of the 
country. Meditation is a state that occurs spontaneously when the 
whole field of consciousness has been prepared with the guidance of 
the master and a systematic program of asanas, pranayam, self enquiry 
and mantra. There are two sorts of mantra, Guru-mantra and Bija 
mantra and they come to transmitted by Brahmanistha Shrotriya 
Satgurudev. Meditation without mantra is like a body without soul. 
True peace of mind, eternal bliss can be attained through the grace of 
the Guru and the systematic practice of mantra. Mantra overcomes 
karmic forces in Our lives and levels the vrittis (waves) in our chitta 
(consciousness). Meditation must be taught and guided by a master. 
Through meditation the psychic centers of Chakras are opened. The 
Muladhar Chakra is the seat of unconsciousness and Swadisthan 
Chakara is the seat of subconscious. In meditation all these part karmas 
and experiences become accessible. The continuous practice of mantra 
purifies and dissolves the. Karmas-just as continuous comings and 
goings trample the weeds on the path. 


Swami Ramdev of Haridwar has popularized pranayam techniques 
through Astha channel. Millions of citizens of this earth are benefited 
though his advice. His teaching are as follows: 


A. Kapal Bharati : Sit in Padmmasan posture, early in the morning, 
pull the stomach inside and only expel the air with high speed 
fromyour body outside using both the noses. Do it for 5 mints. 
First remove the bad air from your body. 


(148) 


B. Now do savasan for 2 mints: Lie down looking to the sky in a 
relaxing mood. 


C. Close the left nostril with the thumb in padmasan posture and 
inhale fresh air, hold the air inside your body as long as you can, 
say for 2 Mints, then releaseslowly though this nostril only. This 
is known as Sun Pranayam. It will increase the heat of the body 
and will help to improve diseases like cold, asthma, polio, 
paralysis, bronchitis, arthritis, migraine, back pain, weakness of 
the body. Here heat generated with the help of pure oxygen, will 
cure you form other many unknown diseases. This is known as 
pingla pranayam. Do for 5 Mints. 


D. Close the left nostril with the ring finger of your left hand and 
inhale fresh air, hold the air inside your body as long as you can, 
then release slowly the air. This is a Moon Pranayam. (or ida 
pranayam). It will remove fever, sunstroke etc. where coolness of 
the body is necessary. Do for 5 Mints. 


E. For balancing heat and cold inhale through right nostril and 
exhale from the left nostril and then inhale through the left nostril 
and exhale from the right nostril. Do for 5 Mints. In all the above 
postures keep your belly inside as much as possible 


Total pranayam for 25 minutes daily will stop ageing process, hair may 
become black again, all the symptoms of diseases will disappear. We 
should strongly condemn Brinda Carat for trying to defame the 
Maharshi of the 21“ century. Pl. contribute generously for development 
of Pantanjali Yoga Center at Haridwar. Let this Patanjali yoga center 
also flourish in various cities of South India. The author has cross 
examined thousands of persons who have been benefited though Astha 
channel. So Pranayams for half an hour early in the morning will keep 
you fit without any medicine. Pranayams can also be done in a 
comfortable posture, the sitting on a chair or sofa. If you practice these 
yogas in an open field (away from home), it will provide much better 
results. We need pollution free natural oxygen in our system for 


(149) 


overcoming the burdens of diseases. By weight lifting procedure we 
can increase our muscles strength, but by Pranayam we can increases 
the strength of internal organs, such as lungs and digestive systems. 
Lungs, breathing system and stomach play the mot important role in 
functioning of the body. May God keep all the readers of this absorbing 
article very healthy for at least 80 years or so. The readers may note that 
Mr. Munda, ex-Chief Minister of Jharkand, brought Swami Ramdev 
Singh at Ranchi in March 2006 and took his blessings. He contributed 
generously for the development of the Patanjali Yoga Centre. We 
expect more and more politicians will come forward and will open 
Patanjali Yoga Centres at the all corner of India. I also request our 
Ayurveda experts to publish papers on.their findings on natural herbs 
of India. India is the land of Gods, and I am sure by 2020 India will 
guide the entire earth. 


Bio chemic therapy : Cost of the. allopathic treatment are rising 
increasingly and becoming bitter for middle.class and poor persons. 
From 2020 onwards, author believes only the rich person would be able 
to bear the cost of allopathic treatment. It is generally found useful to 
take salt of the opposite sign during the month denoted by the sign 
concermed. This helps in maintaining the salt equalities of the body and 
thus avoid manifestation of any disease symptomised by the salt 
concerned (AM,2006,100). These medicines will help in maintaining 
the salt equilibrium of the body and thus avoid manifestation of any 
disease 


Zodiacal sign Bio salt 

Aries March 21. April 20 Kali Phos 
Taurus -April21 May 20 Natrum Sulph 
Gemini May 21 June 20 Kali Mur 
Cancer June 2] July 21 Calkarea Fluor 
Leo July 22 August 22 Magnesia Phos 
Virgo August 23 September 22 Kali Sulph 
Libra September 23 October 22 Natrum Phos 
Scorpio October 23 November 22 Clacarea Sulph 


(150) 


Sagittarius November22 December 21 Silicea 


Capricorn December 2] January 20 Calcarea 
Aquarius January 21 February 20 Natrum Mur 
Pisces February 21 March 20 . Ferrum Phos 


For accurate calculation of your zodiacal sign add the ayanamsa value 
(23°) to the degree of your Sun at the time of birth. For example a baby 
born on 22.10.2004 has Sun in 6°5°1". So his zodiacal sign is 6°5°1'+23° 
55'=6'28° 26'. The baby will be Scorpio is born on 24.10.2004. Ask an 
astrologer for your exact zodiacal sign. 


Vitamins of fruits and vegetables : 


Seasonal fruits and vegetables supply stock of myriad miner which go 
into the formation of some 20,000 biochemical's produced in human 
body. Rich fiber content of fruits and vegetables help in regular bowel 
movement and maintaining tone and tenor of the intestinal tract. Green 
leafy vegetables including spinach, Kale and collards appeared to be 
most beneficial. They contain healthy amounts of Vitamin E, an 
antioxidant that is believed to help fight chemicals produced by the 
body that can damage cells. Vegetables contain more vitamin E than 
fruits. Men hoping to boost their fertility may eat more fruits and 
vegetables. Eating vegetables appears to help keep the brain young and 
may slow the mental decline associated with growing old. 


Observe fasting on dark moon and full moon days. No green vegetables 
on these days. It improves headache, coughing, sinus, tonsillitis, fever, 
bronchitis, pneumonia, and Flu. Avoid curd, butter milk on these two 


Onion: It reduces the risk of heart attack. Should be taken with salad. 
Mild antibacterial effect may help prevent superficial infections. Cures 
baldness. Cutting an onion allows its Sulpher compounds to combine 
enzymes and release volatile molecules that react with moisture in the 
eyes to form sulphuric acid. (H,SO,) Tearing is a normal reaction of the 
eyes to eliminate the irritant. This effect may help any congested nasal 
passages during cold. 


(151) 


Jamun : It cures diabetes. It contains manganese. 


Apples : They contain pectin and fiber which help keep blood pressure 
down by lowering the serum cholesterol levels in the body. They also 
contain vitamins A, B1,B2 andC, and minerals which cut dental decay. 
An apple a day keeps the doctor away is anold adage. 


Bananas: They help stop cravings for sweet and contain an average of 
only 94 calories. Researchers have proved that bananas can relieve pain 
and cure ulcers. An excellent source of potassium, B, vitamin as well as 
a source of folate and fibre 


Butter milk: Rich in yeast and lactic acid, buttermilk is also fat free. It 
increases the flow of urine, improves digestion and enriches the body 
cells. Drink daily if possible. 


Cabbage : It is an excellent source of vitamins A, B and C calcium and 
iron. Its high fiber contents stimulates bowel movement, thus 
preventing or overcoming constipation and Cancer. Sometimes the 
germs from the raw cabbage can go to the brain and cause epilepsy. 


Cheese : The richest protein food, second only to soyabean, lentil and 
peanuts,. Vitamin A and D and lots of calcium and zinc are found. 
Cheese strengthens bones and teeth. 


Dates : It is very useful for those with a weak heart. A good amount can 
be taken after soaking them in water overnight. Date seeds can be 
removed and the pulp can be made into a thick syrup which could be 
taken at least twice a week. It also combats tiredness and nerve 
exhaustion. 


Eggs: These contain protein, fat, iron, calcium, zinc and vitamins A, B 
and D. Lecithin, helps prevent fatty deposits in the arteries. Egg yolk is 
the best source of iron for young babies. Too many eggs produces 
allergy 


Figs: Extremely useful in building up body resistance and increasing 
blood formation one or two figs a day act as effectively as a high 
potency vitamin for vitality. 


(152) 


Honey : It is pre-digested and provides a quick burst of energy. It is rich 
in minerals and vitamins and can destroy germs and hasten the healing 
process. It is always better to take honey with milk. 


Hibiscus Petals : These prove effective in people suffering from 
cardiac problems. Boil hibiscus petal in water, mix with milk and sugar 
and take on an empty stomach daily for a favourable results. 


Iron : An essential mineral. Iron carries oxygen from the lungs to the 
remotest tissue in the body, and returns the waste carbon dioxide to the 
lungs, which then breathe it out. The average Indian requirement of 
iron is about 20 mg for men and 23.30 mg. for women. During 
menstrual loss, pregnancy or lactation, women need more iron intake. 
Our body stores iron in he liver, spleen and bone marrow. Foods like 
eggs, cabbage and green leafy vegetables, gourd are rich sources of 
iron. Take vitamin C for more iron absorption in the body. 


Mango : It is believed that Lord Hanuman first ate this fruit in Lanka, 
the Kingdom of Ravana and threw the seeds everywhere in India. 
Alfanso, Dasheri, Langra, Himsagar, Fajlietc are the famous names of 
Mangoes. It is a very popular fruit of India. Deliciously rich in 
antioxidants, vitamin A, B, C, D and fibber, mango is the perfect fruit. 
Research shows that dietary fiber has a protective effect against 
degenerative diseases, especially heart related, may help prevent 
certain types of cancer and also lower blood cholesterol levels. An 
average size mango can contain up to 40% of your daily fiber 
requirement. For those of you who are physically active, mangoes are a 
great way to replenish lost potassium. Mangoes are also an excellent 
source of vitamins A and C as well as beta carotene. They are also low in 
calories, fatand sodium. 


Amila : Cough or cold or sore, you name it and amlacures it. It is rich in 
vitamin C and A. Amla paste rubbed on the teeth and gums strengthen 
them. One tablespoon of amla powder with water or hot milk at night 
relieves diarrhea. Amla juice cures children of stammering as well as 
bed wetting. Amla has a cooling effect and keeps summer complaints 


(153) 


such as nasal bleeding, sun stroke, lethargy and excessive thrust in 
check. It boosts immunity factors and helps fight viral and bacterial 
infections. It even helps cure and prevent tuberculosis. It makes the 
skin glow, is one of the reasons for its popularity. Use amla + neem 
paste on the face for ten minutes, wash with warm water, It moisturizes 
and adds luster to the skin, detoxifies the tissues and supports skin 
immunity against bacterial infection, be it acne or suntan, amla is the 
answer to all. Chyavan Rishi made a rejuvenating elixir, called 
chyavanparash with amla and restored his youth by consuming it 
regularly.. 


Tomato : They are actually a type of berry and these once exotic fruits 
were called love apples in the 16" century. It is full of vitamin C, beta 
carotene, folate and potassium. 


Potatoes : They make an excellent meal. As the skin remains on the 
potatoes, most of the vitamins and minerals close to the surface are also 
preserved. These are generally had with lentils, beans or cheese 
accompanied by a salad fora healthy meal. A good source of vitamin C, 
B,, potassium and other minerals. 


Kelp: This herb belongs to the family of Fucaceae. Being a source of 
iodine, it used to treat goiter a thyroid enlargement caused by iodine 
deficiency in the body. Today, kelp is known more as a protector from 
radiation, heart disease and toxic heavy metals. 


Licorice : This herb has been used safely around the world for 
thousands of years to treat» cough, cold, rashes, arthritis, ulcers, 
hepatitis, cirrhosis and infections. 


Milk : Agood protein food and very rich in calcium and vitamins Aand 
D. One pint of milk if had daily, supplies a quarter of an adult's protein 
needs. They are full of calcium . 


Nuts : Peanuts and almonds are a concentrated source of protein with 
fibre, some of the B vitamins, minerals and poly unsaturated fatty 
acids. Have nut loaf, nut cutlets, peanut butter, almond cream, or nuts in 


(154) 


salads for healthy living. 


Orange : These are rich in vitamin C which is very essential for general 
body growth. Strong teeth and clear skin. Oranges guard against 
infection and help prevent stretch marks on the body. They also have 
smaller amount of other vitamins, minerals, thiamine, folate and 
potassium. 


Pulses: Excellent protein foods which contain no fat, eaten with grains 
or nuts. Pulses provide iron, zinc, and fibre to the body. They make 
economical meals too. 


Raw vegetable juice: Fresh raw vegetables juices prove highly 
beneficial to the body as they furnish the body cells and tissues with all 
the essential elements and nutritional enzymes they need. Vegetables 
juices can be further divided into three main types: 


1) Juice extracted from vegetable fruits i.e. tomatoes and 
cucumbers: 


2) Juice extracted from green leafy vegetables such as cabbage, 
celery, lettuce, spinach, parsley and watercress: and 


3) Juices extracted from foot vegetables like beetroot, gourd, 
carrot, onion, potato and radish, it is desirable to use juices 
individually instead of a mixture of two or three juices. They 
remove blockage of arteries .* 


_ Soya beans: These are extrerhely rich in protein (as meat) and contain 
no animal fat or cholesterol. A 100 gms. of soya protein contains 88 
calories in minced beef. 


Tea : consumed first thing in the morning, tea acts as a stimulant which 
kick starts your day. It increases the level of alertness and enhances the 
capacity for sustained intellectual effort. Tea has been considered a 
health drink for centuries., if Chinese folklore and legends dating back 
some 2000 years are to be believed. It contains fluoride, and is therefore 
considered good for the teeth and gums. Tea with ginger or tulsi (basil 
leaves) from a popular home remedy for coughs and colds It helps to 


(155) 


relax and aids digestion. 


Yogurt or curd : natural, unsweetened yogurt is said to cure muscular 
pains. Purify the blood, improve digestive troubles and insomnia. 
Yogurt was called the elixir or health by the Romans. It has been 
observed those who take yogurt daily live long without any diseases. 


Pomegranate :Its juice reduce cholesterol in the body. 


Mango leaves: Its juice removes diabetes. Amla and turmeric are also 
wonderful for this disease. 


For maintaining good health one should eat seasonal fruits. 


Chocolate : Chocolate contains many substances that act as stimulants, 
such as Theo bromine, phenethylamine and caffeine. These substances 
have been found to increase alertness and attention and what have been 
found is that by consuming chocolate one can get the stimulating effect, 
which then lead to increased mental performances. 


Foods for Brain Power : Since the brain consumes more oxygen than 
any other body tissue, an iron rich dividends. To add iron absorption 
vitamin C is essential. Vitamin C combats stress, arguments cell 
development and synthesise amino acids to enhance nerve function. 
Vitamins play a vital role in all over beauty. They are important 
ingredients and have many beauty advantages. Red meat,. processed 
and refined food and junk food (Pepsi, hamburger, French fries etc. 
supplied by Macdonald and other fast food chains) are to be avoided. 
Strawberries, grapes, plumbs, red cabbage and cherries which are full 
of anthrocynins which inhibit the formation of blood clots and helps 
brain replenish itself quickly. As a thumb rule doctors advise that a diet 
that is enriched with vitamin B complex, B,, B,, B,, B,., and folic acid 
enhances brain function. Bengalis eat fishes daily. Omega 3 fatty acids 
found in fishes are known to improve memory. Hilsa fish is the king of 
all fishes consumed by Bengalees. Walnut, peanuts and other dried 
fruits also improve brain power. 


(156) 


INDIAN HERBS - EXCELLENT REMEDIES 


Neem : Paste of fresh leaves applied externally heals the wounds of 
small pox , chicken pox and other skin troubles. Saturn is controlled by 
Neem. Chromic diseases can be cured by Neem. Neem is very effective 
for all skin problems. Its juice makes the face pimple free. Neem has 
anti-fungal, antiseptic properties, that is why it is used in soaps, 
toothpaste, hair care, skin care products. Ayurveda believes a neem 
bath is the key of the glowing complexion. Boil Neem leaves and use 
this water for bathing. Burn marks, stretch marks, suntans, warts, nail 
declamation are cured by it. Neem reduces body sugar levels and heal 
skin wounds resulting form diabetes. Fry the flowers of Neem and have 
them to remove worms. 


Garlic Pearl : it contains potassium, calcium, phosphorus, sulphur, 
Vitamin C and iodine. It reduces high blood pressure, cold, cough, 
congestion. Venus is related to this herb and all diseases can be treated 
with garlic efficiently. It revitalises and renovates the lost health 
quickly supplying immunity power. Garlic tea for a month results in 
rebuilding of total skin and colour of the man. It reduce blood pressure, 
aids in digestion, soothen catarrh. It keeps the skin healthy and give 
luster to it. It cures the skin allergy and diseases. It purify the blood and 
cures boils and pimples etc. It rebuilds the nervous system in old age 
and increases longevity. According to ancient literature, during the 
fight between Gods and Demons for the capture of Amrit (Nectar) Pot, 
a few drops felled on the earth and the garlic came out from the earth 
where the drops of Amrit had fallen. So garlic is nothing but Amrit for 
the human being. Senior citizen should use it daily for healing many 
diseases. Garlic's most favourable effects are cardiovascular health. It 
prevents high cholesterol and triglyceride levels and respiratory 
infections. The primary active ingradient in garlic is allicin, which 
gives garlic its characteristic odour as well as many of its medicinal 
properties. 


Betel leaf : It is known as "Pan". It is good appetizer. It is neutrious, 


(157) 


halmatinic and antidepressant. It improves vitality, regulates blood 
circulation and produce lightness in the body. In lose of pharygitis, 
tonsillitis and other throat troubles. It's juice with honey twice a day 
removes worms and relives pain. Betel leaf juice with sugar is helpful 
in nervousness and depressions. The planet mercury is related to betel 
leaf. All types of Mercurial afflictions can be treated with this 
efficiently. Betel with saffron serves as a good remedy in cough and 
influenza. 


Fenugreek (Methi): These seeds have been found by the National 
Institute of Nutrition to contain an active hypo glycogenic agent. The 
glucose reducing activities is due to the gum present in the seed. Jt also 
contains trigonellire, an alkaloid known to have an effect on 
glycosuria. Methi powder (25-50 gm) in water is useful against 
diabetes mellitus. Women generally use this to relieve menstrual , 
cramps. It is also helpful to neutralize excess cough which are 
accumulated in respiratory and coronary arteries. It is also a source of 
protein. Methi tea taken on regular basis will remove the accumulated 
mucus from our body system. It expels the toxins from blood to outside. 
It always clear the passage for smooth flow of blood and nerve currents. 


Dhatura (Stramonium) : Lord Shiva is worshipped with Dhatura 
flowers. Dhatura seeds are intoxicant. Smelling of these seeds give 
relief in asthma. The leaves of this plant made into cigarettes are 
smoked to relieve asthmatic attacks. "Kanak Ava". is used as 
expectorant, antispasmodic in cough troubles. Martian afflictions can 
be treated with this drug. Mars isa rudy and hot planet. 


Bael : it grows in a giant plant and is found everywhere in India. It 
ripens in April/May every year. Its leaves are used to worship lord 
Shiva and its roots are use to appease the planet Sun. the fruit pulp is 
sweet and bitter in taste. It is affective in pitta and vata diseases. The 
leaves are bitter, astringent and are effective in cough rheumatism, 
diabetes mellitus etc. Ten leaves are to be chewed in morning with 
water to check diabetes. The disease connected with solar plexus 


(158) 


(intestines and liver), eye trouble, bone troubles and diabetes are best 
healed by this herbal medicine. One table spoonful of fruit pulp with 
Jaggery acts as a binding mixture in loose motion/diarrhoea. Bae! tree 
is considered to be an divine plant and grows everywhere in India. 
Shiva Pooja is performed with Beal leaves. 


Camphor : The camphor tree is a large handsome ever green tree. 
Camphor is formed in the oil cells distributed in all parts of the tree. It is 
used as perfumes in pooja and festivals. It can cure diarrhoea, cholera, 
congh, cold and asthma. Put comphor in your drinking water. Inhailing 
camphor perfumes removes sinus headache, fevers and cold affections. 
It is related to Moon. Hence all types of diseases created by weak Moon 
may be treated by camphor. It soothes mind, nerves and keeps body 
temperature normal. Burning of camphor daily in the house dispels 
mosquitoes and keep the environment safe and healthy. 


Bitter Gourd (Karela) : It is bitter in taste and grows everywhere in 
India as a creeper. Dark green, whitish green Karelas are available in 
the market in summer in India. It has enjoyed a great deal of popularity 
in our country and almost everyone is aware of its usefulness in 
diabetes. If it is cooked with sugar or fried in oil, beneficial effects are 
lost. For best results take juice of 4-5 bitter gourd's every morning in 
empty stomach. 


Wheat grass : It is a medicine against cancer and diabetes popularized 
by Dr. Ann Wigmore an internationally acclaimed naturopath and 
exponent in wheat grass therapy. 25-30 gm. of wheat grass can be 
chewed or crushed into juice and consumed. It has lot of vitamins and 
mineral. Drub grass has also the same properties. It is found that dog eat 
drub grass and vomits for the complete recovery from the disease. 
Nature has taught them the idea. In West Bengal Drnb grass and paddy 
are kept on the heads of new born babies for appealing long life from 
God. Botanic name of drub grass is cynodon dactylon. It can stop the 
blood secretions though mouth, stool, ear, nose etc, can help to 
conceive, can help in baldness. 


(159) 


Tulsi : This herb is familiar in India from 6000 BC. In each Hindu 
family we find this plant at their courtyards. Its biologically term is 
ocimum basilicum linn. If we touch this plant, it protects anybody 
from diseases. In pre-independence era, cough and cold of infants were 
controlled by the. medicine obtained from Tulsi +honey. It removes 
constipation of babies. Ginger +Tulsi +hpney removes body 
temperature & cough of babies. Many saints of India drink the boiled 
water of Tulsi leaves for keeping themselves free from diseases. 
Eczema is cured by applying tulsitsalt on the affected areas. In 
Addition to its proven efficacy in controlling blood pressure, regulating 
the digestive system and stimulating the production of RBC, it has 
yielded extra ordinary results in mental depression. It has also been 
found effective in preventing Malaria and other common intermittent 
and enteric fevers. Lemon Juice +Tulsi removes headache. 


Ginger : Botanical name zingiba officinale rose. Zinger + honey can 
cure body temperature. Boil ghee +garlic+ ginger + pepper till they 
become brown. All severe cough problem will disappear within 3 days. 
Take daily once. It is used as a appetizer. Eat small pieces of ginger with 
black salt. Can stop heart attack. Ginger is known diaphoretic meaning 
it causing one to sweat. It is carminative, which means it helps break up 
intestinal gas. It has been used as a remedy for congestion in the form of 
a compress for either the sinuses or the chest. Ginger is chewed in 
Philippines to expel evil spirits. This herb is popular from prehistoric 
era in China, India and in Arab countries. 


Gourd .(Lauki) : Its juice will remove acidity, botanical name is 
Lagenaria Vulgaris. Drink Gourd juice with honey for removing 
vomiting tendencies. Rub this on your face as a cleansing agent. Will 
remove dirt and oil from the face. Gourd juice mixed with honey 
removes foul smell of body and mouth. Chemical composition 
Saponin, fatty acids viz mixture of different fatty alcohols. It removes 
the blockage of arteries of heart, 


Bishop sheeds (Ajwain) : it is an excellent tonic for flatulence, 


(160) 


indigestion and low appetite. Boil water with 2-3 teaspoon full of 
ajwain and drink it. It is very popular in India, Srilanka and in Arabian 

countries. A teaspoon of Ajwain with a little rock salt is a household 

remedy for indigestion. For relieving flatulence, dyspepsia and 

spasmodic disorders bronchitis and asthma, the seed may be taken with 
betel leaves. Ajwain water can check vomiting tenderness in early 

stages of cholera. A table spoon of seeds crushed and tied up in a small 

cloth bundle can be used for inhalation for removing nasal congestion. 

Drinking hot water after chewing little ajwain cures cough. Chewing 

betel leaf with ajwain at night before sleeping controls and cures dry 

coughing. It's oil is useful for rheumatism. It removes mouth disorder, 

cures tooth pain and relives heartache. ' 


Sandal Water: The author has invented that by drinking sandal water 
(put a piece of white sandal wood under water overnight and drink it in 
the morning % cup for 30 days every year) many diseases and many 
problems evaporate or minimized. It can appease, Rahu. 


Sheowhi leaves (Harsinger in Hindi): In Bengal-a small plant sheowli 
produces its flowers in Sept Nov each year. The petals are white, with 

an orange stem. It blooms in the evening, but falls down on the ground 

early in the morning: It has a fine aromatic smell. If anybody drinks the 
juice of 3-4 crushed leaves of this plant for a week to 15 days all the 

diseases will disappear. It is particularly effective against joint pains, 

liver diseases and kidney failures, intermittent fevers. This is the 

discovery of he author and he has cured many patients. One lady saved 
herself from imminent kidney dialysis. She has recovered completely 

and is attending her job. «” 


Physical Exercise : For good health, food alone is no solution. 
Maintain a regulated life style (early bed and early rise habit) and daily 
routine. Keep busy. Certain exercises like brisk walk, swimming, 
participation in an indoor game, cycling and free hand exercises ‘(in 
various forms of yoga Asanas) will consume your surplus body energy, 
as also give many indirect benefits. It will increase basal metabolic rate 


(161) 


of your body, will help to fight depression and disappointment, it will 
enhance flow of blood in your vascular system, thereby supplying more 
of life giving oxygen to your body cells. It makes your bone strong, 
provides strong muscles framework and makes more of life energy 
available at your disposal. Do not gossip and idle away your valuable 
time. Do some constructive work. Take higher and higher education. 
As Sun removes all darkness, so the knowledge helps to clear the fog of 
superstition and inferiority complex of mind. Inferiority complex 
accelerates suicidal tendencies. 


The Importance Of Looking Good (Personality Factor): 


Face is the index of mind. Personality is to man what perfumes is to the 
flower. Morning shows the day and the face shows the man. Good 
grooming and right dressing sense add to the personality. Particularly 
in today's world (2007), good looks give you an edge over others. 
Looking good gives people, a sense of power for instance, when you 
know you're looking good, you enjoy the party, that conference or that 
client meeting even more. It's not because your looks will do the 
looking, it's because when you look good, even subconsciously you 
know that you've had a favourable impression. Like we said, first 
impression are lasting impressions. Looks are important, when you 
earn. Good looking guys are paid 5% extra compared to those who 
were plain. One cannot change his height, colour overnight but he can 
change his personality by taking the following eight steps. Someone 
wise said the first impressions are lasting impressions. Very true, after 
all, before the world find out how beautiful you might be inside, they 
get a good look at your outside. The face you present to the world, your 
entire personal, your body language... everything goes a long way in 
making you YOU. And the better you look , the better it is for you when 
facing the big, bad out there. Try to improve in the following line for 
presenting yourself in the society where you live. 


Eyes : Apart from light make up, you can make your eyes look great by 
sleeping well and getting your eyebrows shaped properly. Even 


(162) 


changing the frame of your glasses can drastically change how you 
look. 


Smile : Yes it is the magic mantra. Smiling face can conquer your 
enemies, critics etc. How good to watch a smiling baby. Nobody 
tolerates a grave face. Grave face is needed after 50 yrs or so, when 
somebody occupies a big chair. 


Hair : Healthy hair looks good. It should be combed property to find 
you more attractive in a mirror. Try to be ahero. 


Figure : Yours’ forgiven for not having a perfect figure. However, 
, always wear something that flatters your figure. It's as simple as not 
wearing anything too tight. 


Posture: Walk tall, your shoulders pulled back, your spine straight, 
your chin up. Slouching or looking down when walking tells, people 
that you're under confident. 


Clothes : Do not wear old clothes. Brand new shirts ironed properly 
tmakes you smart. Have a good choice for the colour. Ask people you in 
which colour you look extra-smart, white shirts, light coloured: shirts 
are good. What you wear often determines whom you attract to! 


Hands : Shaking hands, moving hands when talking hands are always 
in focus. Keeping your nails well groomed, hands dea ane well 
moistured always helps, sae 


Shoes : The Snazziest outfit can be completely killed by the wrong 
‘footwear. You don't have to wear fancy stuff. Just make sure your shoes 
are neat, clean and smart. 


When you are in good health and take care of yourself on the inside, it's 
bound to radiate on the outside. Looking good means feeling good. 
Good grooming and the right dressing sense adds to the persona. 
Particularly in today's world, good looks give you an edge over others. 


Sage Parasar has given too much of importance on Lagna and its lord. 
When Lagna and Lord Lagna are strong the native does well in life. 
When the Lagna, its lord or Moon are not being aspected by a single 


(163) 


planet, the Raja Yogas does not bear fruits: Mercury, Saturn, Ketu, 
waning Moon in Lagna reduce height. Jupiter gives medium height. 
Rahu talls the body. Lagnesh in Gemini, Leo, Sagittarius and Aquarius 
gives tall body, Aries, Virgo, Scorpio and Libra give medium height, 
and Taurus, Pisces, Cancer and Capricorn give shot stature. Strong 
Venus provide charismatic outlook. When, Venus is exalted or in Lagna 
or in 7" or 10° produces robust body. Malefics in Kendras forces the 
native to suffer from various diseases. Kendras are the - >illar of the 
ehoroscope. When Moon is hemmed between benefics eyes are 
beautiful (eyes are controlled from the 2"/12" house). Moon and Sun 
control .our light in eyes. A strong benefic in the 4" house, assures 
happiness in life. When two or three benefics in the kendras from Moon 
or Lagna, it assures long life. Combust Lagna lord produces ill-health. 
2” house/2™ lord rules face. Venus is the 2™ lord of the zodiac. So when 
2na house/2™ lord and Venus are well placed in the horoscope, one has a 
beautiful face. Lord of Lagna and Venus aspected by Jupiter will 
provide beautiful face, with attractive appearance. The Sun associated 
-with Lagna or 2™ lord is not conductive to good looks and can give thin, 
sparse hair ori the head. The dispositor of 2” lord is in dusthana or 
conjunction of 2nd lord with dry. planets (Sun and Mars) will als 
provide bad looks. When Lagna is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis and no 
benefic planets influence the Lagna, the native becomes a bald headed 
person. I know a case Example 9 : (DOB 21.10.1960, 20=55 hrs, 
Hyderabad) whose lord of Lagna Venus is 

placed in Scorpio hemmed’ between Se 
malefics and Lagna is squared by Rahn 

Ketu axis. He started losing Hair from the 

age of 28, by 33 he lost all hair. He moves 

in the society with a wig. However he has 

an attractive body and face. 2™ house is 


heavily afflicted by Saturn, Mars and Saga 
Ketu, which nitimately, accelerated the 


process of losing hairs. 


(164) 


© Remedies for Suntan, stretch marks or burn marks on the 
face: 


Use a face mask (suitable for all skin types) comprising dry neem leaf 
powder, sandalwood powder jasmine flower powder or turmeric 
power. Wait for an hour. Then wash with lemon water. It is a great 
medicine against aging, discoloured skins. A glow will appear on the 
face. Boil Neem leaves and take bath with this water for a overall glow 
on the body. 


Secrets of ageless living (100-150 yrs.): 


In 2007, we are observing, most of us look for safer, more convenient 
and medically sound way to live longer, empower ourselves and 
remain healthy throughout life, We may refer to it as "quality 
longevity. Mrs. Martina Novrilata is playing tennis for the last 38 yrs. 
even at the age of 50 in 2007. She won numerous grand slams in tennis. 
Brian Lara the great cricket player made the world record of the 400 
"mins in an innings at the age of 35. People above 70 in India are engaged 
| in jobs. God has given extra 10yrs to everybody as a bonus in 21* 
Century. So have no fear of death up to 80 yrs. We have all seen our 
grandparents and parent grew old and most of us protest against the 
idea of aging in the same way they did. Try some of thee modern 
strategies to lives longer, feel and look younger (1) sharpen your mind 
a sharp mind helps in staying fit. We are more inclined to have good 
relationships, eat well and live a healthy life style with a sharper mind. 
Doing mental aerobics can improve memory and lower your risk for 
: Alzheimer's disease. Arecent study found that when we keep our minds 
active, brain efficiency increases dramatically even after a few weeks. 
Try different approaches to expanding your mental horizons whether it 
is traveling to new destinations or learning a musical instrument or 
developing reading hobby. Stay mentally active through puzzles, 
games, reading and other stimulating hobbies, but be sure to train and 
not strain your brain. Abandon anger, which is very harmful for health. 
Stay cool even in difficult days of life. I met the highly qualified 


(165) 


persons throughout the globe and found them healthy throughout their 
lives. They are the apostles of peace, nonviolence, very generous and 
always willing to help you (2) Cultivate healthy relationships socially 
connected people have longer life, expectancies than socially isolated 
individuals. One should be busy in life, joining, charitable 
organizations schools, colleges, in place of worships etc and should 
indulge in non-violence acts. The terrorists who get pleasure in killing, 
ultimately are bring brutally killed by his own destiny pattern. Thieves 
can rarely enjoy the stolen money. First cultivate higher moral values 
and then preach them for the benefit of mankind. One should acquire 
sound education before becoming a teacher. (3) Reduce stress regular 
meditation (do Pooja or follow the guidelines of Swami Ramdev in 
Astha Channel and also boost the immune system. Wash the face with 
cold water in the morning and evening and sit quietly for 5 minutes 
closing the eyes. If your have deep anxiety in mind tell it to your friends 
and relax. Speak less. leave all the solvable (such as severe financial 
hardships) problems to God. A bird never thinks for tomorrow. Deep 
thinking powers will solve all the problems of life. Satisfied people are 
twice as likely to survive composed with dissatisfied individuals. 
Attending a house of worship once a week is associated with a seven 
years longer survival compared with never attending. Temples, 
Churches, Mosques do some work in increasing the life span of an 
individual. Visit some important shrine at least once in 5 years 
(Tiruputi, Ajmer, Mecca, Rome, Amarnath, Kedarnath, Badrinath, 
Rameshwaram, Jagannath Temple at Puri, Ma Kali at Kalighat in 
Kolkata, ISCON Temples etc). Take deep bath in Ganges once in 5 
years either in Hrishikesh or in upper mountains. Lastly sleep in a noise 
free room. Avoid smoking/drugs from 60 onwards. Keep your face 
clean and wear good clothes, think positively in all matters of life. 
Never entertain destructive thinking (such as dacoity, murder, harming 
the interests of others) and conquer Jealousy. Your bed should be neat 
and clean with laundry washed bed sheets. Swami Sanatan Shree is 
now 94 yrs who lives in Lucknow. He always wear clean clothes, keeps 


(166) 


his face neat and clean. Besides Pooja, he reads many new books. He 
loves astrologers. Other eminent Indians who are above 90-100 are, 
artist M.F. Hossain who just went to Germany for watching the world 
football cup match, in June 2006. At 90 he is energetic and youthful, 
Jyoti Basu at 96 dreaming to become the President of India, Siddhartha 
Shankar Roy at 96 is earning millions as an eminent lawyer, Atal Behari 
Vajpai, L.K. Adwani are senior most politicians of India who are still 
active beyond 80 years, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi is living in Holland 
where he is propagating the messages of Hindu Religion at the age of 
96. In man the composition of blood must be kept remarkably 
constant. If the concentration of oxygen is only slightly below normal, 
the individual becomes unconscious. There is only a trace of calcium 
ions (ca++) in blood plasma _ the concentration is about 0.0001. if the 
concentration drops to about 0.00005 i.e. half of the normal level, the 
individual goes to convulsion and dies. The blood supplies glucose to 
cells. The normal concentration of glucose is about 0.0007. If the 
concentration drops to half i.e. 0.00035, convulsions and death are the 
result. lf the glucose level rises to 0.0012 and remain there, the 
individual develops the disease diabetes. Diabetes patient fails to cross 
75 yrs or so. pH of the blood should be alkaline (take dry fruits) for 
crossing [00 yrs on this globe. Take neem leaves or Karela juice or 
juice of Sheowli regularly for maintaining the sugar level of blood. 
Always eat as less food as possible after 50. Take regularly curd. Curd 
: maintains the pH level of blood (at 7.4) and calcium level. 


; Antiaging diet': People above 60, who follow a vegetarian diet and 
: engage in a prudent lifestyle show increased life expectancy. Eating 
‘ fish once in a week will eliminate chronic eye diseases. Alzhimers 

disease etc. Omega 3 fatty acids are credited with keeping arteries 

: healthy and reducing the stickness of platelets in the blood. Nature has 
| created many coloured fruits and vegetables. By eating a coloured dish 

daily (such as squash, carrots, peppers, melons, berries, apples, beet 
roots, papya, pomegranate) one can increase life span beyond 100 yrs 

. easily. Make sure your drink 6-7 glasses of water daily. Antioxidants 


(167) 


are molecules that interact and stabilize free radicals, preventing the 
damagethey might cause. Top 10 antioxidant fruits are Prunes, Raisins 
Blueberries, strawberries, Raspberries, plumps, oranges, grapes, 
cherries; kiwi. Top 10 antioxidant vegetables are Kale (cabbage), 
spinach, Brussels sprouts, Broccoli, beets, red peppers, onions, corn, 
eggplant, carrots. Take multivitamin tablets (B,,) once in a month after 
50 or so. Older adults produce inadequate amount of stomach acid and 
therefore can no longer properly absorb B,, from food. Japan has the 
longest life expectancy in the world, what is their diet secret’? Lots of 
grains, vegetables, soya, and fish, less meat, poultry and dairy. Never 
eat excess food. Eat as much less food as you can beyond 75 or so. Take 
only fruits/vegetables/B,, tablets/fish soup beyond 80yrs or so. Take 
daily walks. Exercise not only preserves muscle strengths but also 
improves appetite and mood. Cinnamon, mint (pudeena), ginger, 
cumin, cardamom can help digestion. A small amount of bitters (neem, 
Karela) can promote digestion and alleviate flatulence. Turmeric is a 
natural antibiotic. Taking a piece of raw Turmeric with honey removes 
wrinkles on the face and an aura radiates from the face. One can look 
much younger by drinking ginger tea or ginger juice and raw turmeric 
(kachha Haldi). The Chinese were using ginger as long as 6" century 
BC. The zingiberaceke family includes ginger, cardamom and 
turmeric. Banana is a distant cousin. Cardamom is used widely in 
Scandinavia in breads and pastries. Pineapple works against gout. 
Health is wealth. It is not necessary to have to much money but it is 
urgently needed for enjoying his life on this beautiful planet earth. 
Those who have benefics in Kendras, not retrograde, malefics in 3°/11 
houses, 8"/12" house are free can take a challenge to live more than 
150 yrs in the 21st century, and more than 300, yrs in the 22nd century. 
Retrograde planets in trines.contribute to longevity. In 2007 in Japan 
alone more than 30,000 people are living who are above 100 yrs. 


th 


(168) 


CHAPTER - 4 


LONGEVITY 


oroscope is the horary map of heavens at 

the time of birth, which is a storehouse of 

all information, regarding health, wealth, 
name and fame, litigations, longevity, success, 
happiness, failures etc. between birth and death. 
When one is born everyday he may face the death 
threat. There is actually no guarantee of a fixed span 
of life. However our wise sages framed certain 
astrological guidelines for assessing the quantum of 
life span on one's sojourn to this beautiful planet 
earth. The birth marks the descent of the soul on 
earth and its embodiment. Death means the 
shedding of the body sometimes willingly 
(suicide), sometimes through violent incidents such 
as serious accidents, wars, flood, earthquake, 
snakebite or through natural aging processes. 
Certain serious illness cut short one's mundane. 
journey quite unexpectedly (cancer, aids, Jaundice, 
kidney failures etc.) So everybody should try to 
avoid diseases and accidents as much as possible. 
Life is like a candle flame, which can be 
extinguished by hostile air. One should guard his 
life properly with sound knowledge about health 
and diseases. In this book I have explained how one 
can live about 80 years without any disease. Though 


(169) 


technological advances and breakthrough discoveries in surgical 
procedures and treatment have been, making headlines, there is no 
guarantee of a patient's life. In the example 10, the native lost his life 
only for an unsuccessful operation. I'm sure he took a wrong decision 
about the brain surgery at Apollo Hospital, Delhi. The Muhurta of 
operation should be fixed by an competent astrologer. Even if there is 
no disease, no accident, one can die all of a sudden without any notice 
through heart failures. When Saturn aspects Sun, Sun is weak, Moon is 
weak, and Leo is afflicted one dies all on a sudden. Sun, Moon, Janma 
Lagna are the hylegs of life. Wherf, Sun, Moon and Janma Lagna are 
aspected by benefics one lives long. }t is difficult to live beyond 65 yrs 
when both Sun and Moon are aspected by Saturn. Sri M.C. Bhandari, 
an eminent personality of India, the founder of Bharat Nirman and 
Mystic India died in London at a very young age due to heart attack, 
whose both Sun and Moon were,influenced by Saturn. There is no 
justification, reasons cannot be explained for the name and fame of.a 
native whose Sun is aspected by divine Jupiter. All the natural benefic 
planets should be posited in benefic houses and malefic planets should 
occupy the malefic houses. Longevity is controlled from the 8", 3ra and 
10" (8" from 3) houses. Afflicted 8* house with Sun, Mars, Rahu, 
Ketu and Saturn produce violent deaths. Mars in 8” is never welcome. 
The best place for 8" lord in 8*, 3ra, 6" and 12” house. Retrograde 
benefic planets in Kendras does not help the native in promoting 
longevity. All the retrograde planet in 8” house invariably curtails the 
longevity of the person. Sun, Moon, Mercury and Venus increase the 
longevity of the person in 8". According to the author Jupiter is neutral 
in the 8m house. It never promotes longevity in 8*. One the other hand, 
since Jupiter is the planet of hope, happiness, recovery power, wealth 
etc. One has to work very heard for money when he has Jupiter in the 8”. 
house. There are numerous Balarista yogas or combinations and 
majority of them revolve round the Moon's position at birth. Balarista 
Yogas limit life up to 32 yrs Moon is the mother of all planets. When 
Moon is weak, other planets also become weak. The Moon in the 


(170) 


Gandata part of a Nakshatra, if aspected or conjoined with a malefic 
planet make the child meet with early earth (the first quarter of 
Ashwini, Magha and Moola and the last quarter of Aslesh, Jyestha and 
Revati are know as Gandantas) the same result is also shown by the 
Moon occupying the Mrityu or fatal parts of different signs or if 
aspected by a malefic planet. According to Jataka Parijata the fatal 
points are 8°(Aries) 25° (Taurus), 22° (Gemini) 22° (Cancer), 21° 
(Leo), 1° (Virgo) 4° (Libra), 23° (Capricorn), 20° (Aquarius) and 10° 
(Pisces). Longevity is closely tied up with the strength of Ascendant 
and its lord. Afflictions to the Ascendant directly or indirectly render 
its strength to withstand collapse or death fragile and therefore 
adversely affect the longevity. Benefics in 1°/2™/4"/5"/7°/8"/ 
9"/10"/11 “ houses and malefics in 3a, 6", 1]""give good longevity. Two 
malefics in 6*, shatters physical health. Sun in a day birth or 
unaffiliated Moon in night birth in the 13" ensures good longevity. 
Saturn, the karaka or natural significator of Ayus, in the 8" house is an 
asset for a long life. The author has observed many cases, when the 
native perished with Saturn in 8" at a young age. For a long life 
Kendras should be influenced by benefics such as Jupiter, Venus, 
Mercury and strong Moon. So it should be understood when Saturn 
occupies 8" house, Kendras are occupied by benefics one will live 
very long. The ascendant lord in 2"/3"/11" can give reasonably good 
longevity but some where in the range of 65-75 yrs. Ascendant lord in 
Dusthanass rarely gives a life span beyond 60 yrs. Ascendant occupied 
or aspected by its lord and the Moon well placed free of afflictions 
confers a long life. The two prime factors - a strong ascendant and the 
Moon not only take longevity into the purnayu range but can even 
extend it to at least 85 yrs. the Ascendant lord in Quadrants/Trines 
cannot aspect the Ascendant, but generates good longevity. This could 
be the range of 75-85 yrs. The 4* house rules vehicles and 8h house 
longevity. If these two house are related then accident happen while 
undertaking a journey during the period related to these houses (AM, 
1990 423). If airy, fiery, watery and earthy signs are involved, the 


(171) 
\ 


accident may be due to air crash, fire, , water or on the ground 
respectively. Debilitated Ascendant lord if associated or aspected by 
malefics gives short life and harms the prospect of the house he is 
placed in. 


Short life : 1. The maximum life will be 32 yrs when the ascedant lord 
and its dispositer is devoid. of aspects of benefics. 2. Atmakaraka is 
placed 3:4 from Lagna. 3. When Mars Saturn, Sun are in conjunction in 
6"/8" from Lagna with no benefics influences on them. 4. When the 
Moon in 1*/6"/8"/12" is aspectd by a malefic and there are no benefics 
in Kendras. 5. When Moon in conjunction with malefics occupies the 
Lagna, the 8m, 7m or 12 with no benefic aspects and there are no 
benefics in Kendras. 6. If 8" house, 8" lord are afflicted, malefics 
occupy the 12" house, one dies early. 


Medium Life: 1. When lagnapati and 8m lord are posited together one 
may live upto 48 yrs. 2. Saturn and Jupiter in any sing assures 
medium life, since all the four spiritual houses are in control. 3. When 
the 8" Jord is in a Kendra in a fixed sign and 8" house hasno benefics it 
shows a 40 yrs span. 4. If all the malefics occupy 6"/8"/12” from lagna 
lord and the benefics be in houses other than 8", it gives 60 yrs. 5. If 
the Lagna lord and Moon sign lord join the 8" lord and Jupiter be in any 
house, other than Lagna and Kendra, it shows 65 yrs. 6. Ascendant 
lord and the 8m lord are in quadrants. 


Long life : 1. When the 8" lord is posited in the Sm house from the 
dispositor of Moon, one live upto 95 yrs. 2. If the 8 lord is posited in a 
trine house from Lagnapati, one will have a long life. 3. There should 
not be any planet in the 8n house either from Moon or ascendant and 
Venus and Jupiter should be powerful. 4. When the 8" lord is posited 
in 5"/0" one lives between 65-75. 5. Strong lord of Lagna, Lagna, 8" 
lord, 3ra lord, Saturn benefic planets in angles (1 ,4,7 & 10) assure long 
life to the’native. Let us study seven practical case histories. All the 
horoscopes are from the research diary of the author. 


(172) 


Example 10. Death for brain cancer : DOB 08-08-1937, 100 AM, 
Khulna. Birth Chart: Taurus Lagna, Ketu, Gemini Venus, Cancer 
Sun, Leo Moon 8°12'40” Mercury; Scorpio Mars, Rahu; Sagittarius 
Jupiter (R), Pisces Saturn (R), Aries = Uranus, Leo Neptune, Cancer 
Pluto, Navamsa Gemini Lagna, Moon, Cancer Ketu; Leo Mars; 
Virgo Mercury; Libra Saturn, Scorpio Jupiter; Capricorn Sun, 
Venus, Rahu. 


This is the horoscope of Late Dr. Roy 
M.Sc. Ph.D., Ex. Professor of Calcutta Nee 
University. He had a very successful life. SP, 


His only son is a software Engineer at 
Gurgaon. His Lagna is occupied by Ketu 
aspected by Saturn and Mars. Ketu is ar Rah 


known to Generate mysterious disease in 

the body. Lagna represents head. His Vas =< 
cancer was detected in March 2005; brain - 

operation took place in Apollo Hospital, 


Delhi on 5-11-2005. He died on 7-11-2005 for the unsuccessful 
operation. The d'asa at the time of death was Jupiter Saturn - Jupiter. His 


Deha Rasi is Taurus, Jeeva Rasi is Gemini, Moon is in Savya group A, 
3" qtr. He was born with 1* cycle 44 yr 10m. He was passing Mesh dasa 
upto 8-6-2005. Cancer was detected at.this dasa (chidradasa). Meen 
dasa started on 8-6-2005. In both KCD, as well in Vimsottari dasa he 
died during Jupiter's dasa. His Deha lord is placed in Jeeva sign and is 
hemmed between malefics. Contact of Deha and Jeeva signs are never 
welcome for a long innings of life. Deha Rast is also heavily afflicted. 
God granted him 68 yrs. of life; for the presence of Sun and Saturn in 
Upachaya houses, and two natural benefics in the 4" house. Any 
retrograde planet in the 8” house curtails longevity. For horoscopic 
indications to flourish Deha and Jeeva signs should not be afflicted by 
malefics. He never suffered from any serious disease., Cancer caught 
him at the fag end of life and killed him. When all benefics are weak, 
Rahu and Mars are posited in any sign, Cancer may occur. His Jupiter is 


(173) 


retrograde in the 8" house: Both Moon and Mercury are squared by 
Rahu Ketu axis. His karmic control planets have generated 6/8 
relationships, and hence did not allow him to pile up money. He started 
his life with Rs. 400/= month, but is son started his life with Rs. 1 
lakh/month. When Saturn and Mars join or concentrate their forces 
opposite to Rahu, cancer appears in the body. In Vimsottori he died 
during 8" lord Jupiter's dasa. In KCD also he died during'Jupiter dasa. 
Jupiter is placed in the 6" house in Navamsa and hence generated 
disease in the body. His lord of Lagna was hemmed between malefics 
and was aspected by Mars and 8" lord Jupiter. Lagna was unaspected by 
benefics. Weak lord of Lagna, and weak Lagpa does not promote long 
innings of life. He was passing sade sati at the time of death. 


Example 11. Death for the brain cancer in infancy : DOB 7-5-1992, 
3-39 AM Delhi. Lagna Pisces Mercury, Mars; Mesh = Deha, Sun, 
Venus; Gemini Moon 16-48, Ketu; Leo- Jupiter; Libra Pluto; 
Sagittarius-Jeeva, Rahu, Neptune, Uranus; Capricorn Saturn. 


This young boy lost his life at the age of —> 
13. Why? Lord of Lagna is posited in the ee 
6" house, Lagna is heavily afflicted by 
debilitated Mercury, Mars, Saturn and 


further Lagna is squared by Rahu-Ketu 
axis. Moon occupies 6" house in 


Navamsa. In Rasi chart Moon is afflicted 
by Ketu, whose dispositror Mercury is Vin an 
debilitated and severely afflicted. All the 


Kendras are devoid of benefic influence. 

He was born in Apasavya group B, 4" Qtr, with balance Sagittarius 6 
yrs. Sagittarius and Scorpio passed smoothly. He died in Libra dasa. 8” 
lord is placed in the 2nd in Deha Rasi and is a.combust planet. Goddess 
Laxmi will never visit the native when 6"/8" lords are in Deha and 
Jeeva signs. His Lagna, Deha and Jeeva signs are afflicted. Dangers 
and downfalls are always as sure as sunrise when the both Deha and 


(174) 


Jeeva rasis are ill occupied. If these are occupied by Mars, Saturn, Rahu 
or Ketu, the native will suffer misfortune, illness etc, his life span and 
health is under severe threat. Deha = Physical frame, Jeeva = life's 
force. When both these houses are occupied by malefics apprehension, 
calamity, anguish, fear, great risk are indicated. Two or more malefics 
in them may cause unnatural death. Afflicted Deha and Jeeva signs 
terminated his life span at a very young age. It is written in the 
literature, weak Moon does not allow the life span to go beyond 32 yrs. 
All the Kendars of Moon are occupied by malefics. 5, 9" lords are 
heavily afflicted by Saturn. From Sept. 2003 he was suffering and died 
on 18.10.2005at 12 mid night during Jupiter- Venns-Rahu dasas. As per 
KCD he died during Tula dasa. Tula dasa started when he was 13 yrs. 
Tula rasi is heavily afflicted by Pluto, Saturn, Mars and Ketu. Its lord 
Venus is a combust planet. Quite naturally Tula dasa put an end to his 
mundane journey. When Sun, Moon and Lagna are afflicted, one may 
have cancer. His all the hylegs of life, Surya Lagna, Chandra Lagna and 
Janma Lagna are heavily afflicted. He was at the last phase of sade sati 
atthe time of death. 


Examplel2. Dead body was found with smashed face on 05-05-06 : 
DOB 16-5-1966/7=12P.M./Calcutta. Birth chart: Scorpio Lagna, 
Ketu; Pisces; Venus, Saturn, Moon 16°57' Aries Mars, Mercury; 
Taunus Sun, Rahu; Gemini Jupiter; Leo Saturn; Virgo Mercury, 
Sagittarius Mars, Moon, Venus, Jupiter. 


He lived only for 40 yrs and died in a 
mysterious circumstances. He was going hee a4 
to his maternal uncles' house at 
Diamondhorbaur on 4-5-06. His dead 


body was discovered at Diamondhorbaur, 
with smashed face on 5-5-2006. He was 


born in Savya group A V quarter, Deha 
Aries, Jeeva Dhanu, 1" cycle is for6] yrs ae ON ; 
6m, balance dasa Cancer 14yrs 6 m. He 


(175) 


died during Tula dasa. As per Vimsottori dasa he died during Venus 
Mercury Mercury dasa. His Deha Rasi is occupied by 8" lord Mercury. 
Further this 8* lord Mercury is placed with its enemy Mars and is under 
papakartari yoga. Goddess laxmi-will never visit the native if 6°/8" 
lords occupy Deha and Jeeva signs. Heavily afflicted 8" lord, afflicted 
Deha Rasi cut shot his mundane journey. His Kendras are devoid of 
benefic influence. Jupiter in 8" did not promote his longevity. Sages are 
silent on the role of Jupiter in the 8” house, so far longevity is 
concerned. Since 6"/8" lords are placed in 6” house, a conspiracy 
behind his murder is to be anticipated. Taurus Rasi governs face. His 
face was smashed because Taurus was heavily afflicted by Sun, Rahu 
and Saturn. Saturn is influencing both Sun and Moon, this very bad 
factor decreased his life span. All the hylegs of life are afflicted which 
added fuel to the fire. 


Example 13. Died in dropsy disease : DOB 2-7-1923, 6=47PM, 
Bankura, Birth Chart. Sagittarius Lagna; Aquarius Moon7°7'Ketu, 
Uranus; Taurus = Mercury, Venus; Gemini Pluto, Sun, Mars; Cancer 
Neptune; Leo Rahu; Virgo Saturn; Libra Jupiter (R). 


This is the birth chart of the author's eldest 
brother who reared him up for the death of 
father in infancy. He never suffered from 
any diseases. At the fag end of life in July 
2002, dropsy attacked him. Water 
accumulated in his belly for the affliction 
of his 7m house, Gemini by Pluto, Sun, 
Mars and Saturn. As per KCD he was born 
in Apasaya group B, 1* quarter, 1" cycle = 
74yr 6m 22d. He opened his life with 
Kumbh 2yr 6m 22d. Makar, Dhanu, Vrischika, Tula, Kanya, Leo 
Cancer passed away smoothly. He died during Pisces dasa. Its lord 
Jupiter is retrograde, placed in the enemy camp and has moved 8" 
house from his natal position. He died on 16-10-2002, VijayaDasami 


(176) 


day at 1.00 AM. The reason for his death was multiple organ failures 
during Venus Venus dasa as per Vimsottori. 6” lord's dasa brought 
immense sufferings for him. Dropsy is a disease in which watery fluid 
collects in the cavaties of tissue of body. Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces 
are watery signs. When these signs and their lords are afflicted one 
suffers from dropsy. His Cancer is hemmed between malefics, Saturn 
aspects both Scorpio and Pisces. So he sufferedfrom dropsy. He also 
‘ee broke his right thigh bone in the bathroom in Sep. 02. 2"/6"/10* house 
‘ govern bone. Here 2™ lord Satu is aspected by Mars, 6” house is 
occupied by 6" lord, squared by Rahu Ketu axis. Saturn occupies his 
; 10” house. Taurus and 2n house rule the right leg and12" house/Pisces 
control the left leg. Dispositor of Mars, Mercury is conjoined with 6” 
; lord Venus in Taurus, squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. 2nd lord is aspected by 
[ Mars. So as per astrological rules he suffered for bone fracture just 
! before his death. He could not eat anything between Aug 2002 to 16- 
10-2002. 5/9 relationships of Deha and Jeeva signs made him a 
successful man of the society. Aspect of Jupiter on both Moon and Sun 
prolonged his lifé, and provided him name and fame also. He helped his 
9 hapless brothers and sisters to come up in life. Conjunction of 5"/9" 
lord in 7m house generated a Raja Yoga for him. He had partial Adhi 
Yoga. His both the sons are M.Tech engineers and are well settled 
persons of the society.. Saturn in the 8" house-Moon granted him a long 
life. Venus is debilitated in navamsa. Hence Venus Venus dasa brought 
immense sufferings in his golden life. He only suffered for 3 months 
before he was silenced by God. He died in Pondichery., far away from 
his birthplace. Conjunction of 8n lord with Ketu and Uranus in the 3:4 
house made his death shrouded with mystery. Nobody was present by 
his side, when the God of death visited him. 
Example 14. Disease free long innings of life of a well versed 
Astrologer : DOB 5-4-1929, 12=15PM/Maimansingh, Bangladesh. 
Birth Chart : Cancer Lagna; Libra Ketu; Sagittarius Saturn; 
Capricom Moon,; Pisces Sun, Mercury; Aries Jupiter, Venus, Rahu; 
Taurus Rahu; Gemini Mars. 


(177) 


This is the horoscope of Prof. Arun kumar 
Sengupta, President and Principal of 
Indian Institute of Astrology, Kolkata. The 
author learnt astrology under his able’ 
guidance. He is B.Sc. M.A and retired as a 
senior Govt. Officer of West Bengal. He is 
born with Paryata Yoga, the yoga of 
immortals. Lord of Lagna Moon_is in a 
Kendra, whose dispositor Saturn in the 6*, 
whose dispositor Jupiter is again in the 10" house forming this rare 
yoga. Jupiter Venus Moon is mutual angles has generated Mudrika 
Yoga. Even a person born in an ordinary family rises very high in life. 
Malefics in 3 and benefics in Kendras have granted him a very long 
life. Satum in 6h house made him a disease free man, 8" lord is 
aspecting its own house. He has a very fair complexion, very noble in 
character and is widely regarded as a very knowledgeable astrologer of 
Bengal. He has a special Raja Yoga in the 10"house. Union of 4” lord 
Venus and 9: lord Jupiter in the 10" house is again a Raja Yoga. Moon in 
7" makes the later part of life will full of honour and fame. Readers will 
be surprised to learn that a much younger man to him Prof. Arun Kumar 
Goswami was the Principal of Indian Institute of Astrology, while he 
learnt astrology there. Prof. Goswami committed suicide in June 1993, 
thus helping him to occupy the post of the Principal of the above 
prestigious institute. Later on Parasmani an astrologer of Bombay 
resigned as the President of ITA, Kolkata, which helped him to elevate 
himself on the President of ITA, Kolkata: Jupiter and Venus in 1 0" make 
anybody famous and rich. Budhaditya Yoga, Uranus in 9n made him a 
super intelligent person. Saturn and Mars are concentrating their forces 
on the 3“ house. Higher the afflictions of 3“ house higher is the 
longevity. The author learnt astrology from IIA, Kolkata, when Prof. 
Goswami was the Principal. Teachers of the institute are knowledge 
batiks of astrology. 


(178) 


Example 15. Loss of both legs in old age accident : DOB 6-1-1926, 
9=15PM, Multan, died in 1998. Birth Chart : Leo Lagna 5-23, 
Neptune; Virgo Moon 15-26; Scorpio Saturn 0-31, Mars 13; 
Sagittarius Sun, Mercury, Capricorn Jupiter, Ketu Deha; Aquarius 
Venus 0°51' Uranus Gemini Pluto, Jeeva. 


I shall never forget this gentleman. He was__ 


a builder by profession and had many | 
setbacks in life. When Mars, Saturn, 
Rahu, Ketu are placed in the angle of 6n CY 


lord, one's life becomes full of litigations. 
For a litigation free life one should have a 
benefic in the 11" house and also other 


benefics in trines/quadrants. He has 
Capricom as Deha Rasi and Gemini as pony 
Deha Rasi, both of them are highly “ ; 


afflicted by malefics. Mars is aspecting Jeeva sign, Saturn is aspecting 
Deha sign containing debilitated Jupiter and Ketu. When Deha and 
Jeeva signs are occupied by malefics apprehension, calamity, anguish, 
fear, great risk are indicated. Two or more malefics in these sign cause 
unnatural death. He married on 10.3.54, got a son in the same year, his 
first wife died in 1967. In 1970 he married again, got a son in 1972, but 
his wife also died in 1990, On 24-11-93, he met a violent accident 
"which changed the course ofhis destiny pattern during Mercury, 
Mercury Jupiter dasa. 2/11" lord Mercury proved fatal for him. He 
‘lost both the legs, suffered for next 6 yrs. and died on 25-12-2000 
during Mercury Mars dasa. 2/1 1* lord is placed in a Kendra, as a 
businessman he earned huge money but never got peace in life for the 
presence of Saturn Mars conjunction in the 4m house. Capricorn and 
Pisces control our legs. Capricorn is heavily afflicted, Lord of Pisces 
Jupiter is debilitated and highly afflicted by malefics. So he lost both 
the legs in a tragic accident. 2"/6"/10" house from Janma Lagna are 
afflicted, which added fuel to the fire. The lord of locomotion. Venus is 
tan infant planet, and is powerfully aspected by Mars carrying the 


(179) 


deadly influence of 6* lord Saturn vide rule No. 52 chapter 3, moving 
difficulties will arise when Saturn (the lord of limbs) aspects 3" house 
and 3:4 lord is ill placed. The readers will be surprised that he used to call 
his son from the roof after death and asked for new clothes. Son had the 
courage to speak to the departed soul at night. 3/4 times he appeared on 
the roof between 2001-2002. 


Example. 16. Life history of a billionaire Medical Doctor of Bengal: 
DOB 1-9-1933, 100 AM, Kolkata, died in Feb 2004 through heart 
attack. Normal death. 


Birth chart : Gemini Lagna; Leo Ketu, 


Sun, Mercury, Virgo Venus, Jupiter; 
Libra Mars; Capricorn Saturn, Moon 
Aquarius Rahu. 


He was the son ofa very famous medical 
doctor of Kolkata and he also became a 


medical doctor and! used to practice 
medicine in Chowranghee area. He was VanauN 
6'2" tall with 150kg massive body. Aspect 


of Rahu in Lagna provided the haphazard growth of muscles. His lord 
of Lagna is afflicted by Ketu and Sun. He used to chew 200-300 betel 
leaves/day with tobacco, was alcoholic and smoker. Afflicted 2™ lord 
with Saturn and Mars made him a drug addict. However he never took 
hard drugs like hasish or LSD. 8" lord in 8” aspected by divine Jupiter 
helped him to, inherit billions in cash and many properties in Bihar, 
Bengal. He was almost free from disease. His first marriage ended in 
divorce and he married a very intelligent woman again before he was 
30. He left behind two sons and a daughter. 8” lord in 8m (Twin 8* 
housed of zodiac by Dr. S.S. Chatterjee) granted him a poor career. He 
was a very lazy man and did not feel any urge to earn money. He was 
surrounded by drivers, and servants and lived for 71 yrs for the 
affliction of 3ra house and two natural benefics in Kendra of Lagna. For 
the wrong food habits he failed to cross 80 years. 


(180) 


DISEASE AND ITS 
CURE 


HEART DISEASE AND HYPERTENSION 


here are four reasons of death. Heart failure, 

coronary thrombosis (80% persons die of 

heart failure), kidney failure, brain failure 
(such as a brain meningitis) chocking (such as 
drowning, due to poisonous gas, buried under 
ground due to earth quake etc.). Since majority of 
the persons die ont of heart attack, we shall try to 
understand through the magic eyes of astrology, 
who will die of heart attack and at what age. The 
haman heart is a donble pump. The left ventricle 
pumps blood to all parts of the body except lungs. 
This blood supplies the cells with digested food 
substances and oxygen. It also collects carbon 
dioxide and nitrogenous wastes. This blood returns 
to the right side of the heart and then is pumped to the 
lungs. Thns the blood must pass though Inng 
capillaries, gaining oxygen and losing carbon 
dioxides (CO,), before it is pumped around the body 
once again. In one minute, the heart pamps VA 
gallons of blood to the body. In the average person, 
the heart beats 72 times a minute or 2,600,000,000 
times in a normal span of 70 years. Within snch a life 
time, the heart moves 450,000 tons of blood. The 
heart rate and therefore the pressare of the blood is 


(181) 


also affected by chemical changes in the blood. Blood has a pH value 
7A slightly alkaline in character. If the acid level of blood rises, as it 
does in diabetic patients, the heart muscle is stimulated to contract 
faster. High concentration of carbon dioxide in the blood, will also 
cause the heart to beat faster. Finally, a number of hormones, adrenalin 
for example will accelerate the heart rate. Hemoglobin, a conjugated 
type of protein is the red colouring mater of the blood. Its normal 
concentration is 14-16 gm/100ml. The most important property of 
hemoglobin (Hb) is its power to combine with oxygen to form an easily 
dissociated compound known as oxyhemoglobin (HbO,). The affinity 
of hemoglobin for carbon monoxide is about 250 times greater than its 
affinity for oxygen. It has been found from the reports in Newspaper, if 
anybody has to sleep overnight in a A/C car, he may die due to the 
formation of car boxy hemoglobin (HbCO) in the blood. So nobody 
should try to sleep in A/C car, closing all the doors. At least 5-6 people 
died in 2006 in Gurgaon Area in carbon monoxide poisoning. The main 
function of the blood is to transport various materials to all cells of the 
body, blood also provides the temperature regulating and defensive 
mechanisms. 


Blood Pressure : 


While the heart is the organ responsible for maintaining the pressure of 
blood, in the vascular system, there are many factors responsible for 
minor changes in the pressure. In case of severe shock, such as that 
experiencing after an accident or severe emotional disturbance, certain 
capillaries dilate to such an extent that they absorb nearly all the blood 
remaining in the blood system. Unless the blood volume be made up 
quickly by means of transfusion, the person may die. A Doctor is to deal 
with such as situations by the temporary expedient of administering a 
drug, which cause the arteries to constrict and so to squeeze the blood. 
back into the major vessels again. As the body-ages, the inner walls of 
the blood vessels may become encrusted with calcium and other 
mineral deposits. This seriously reduces the diameter of the cavity of 
the individual vessels, bringing about a rise in blood pressure, and an 


(182) 


increased heart rate. Three things may occur under these 
circumstances. First the blood vessels, being brittle, may rupture and 
cause internal bleeding or hemorrhaging. If this occurs death may result 
depending on the extent of the bleeding. Second, vessels may affect the 
two kidneys and other important organs. Third, the now uneven inner 
surface of the encrusted blood vessels may cause the blood to clot. This 
plug or thrombus may do no harm in this side but, when dislodged, it 
may enter the small coronary artery cutting off the blood supply. The 
result is called occlusion and a coronary occlusion is one of the most 
frequent causes of sudden death in men aged between 40-71. The walls 
of blood vessels can become thickened by deposits other than mineral 
ones. Cholesterol is a useful fatty substance made in the body. Too 
much cholesterol in the blood, however, may cause the conditions 
known as atherosclerosis, whereby the walls of the blood vessels 
become coated with cholesterol. Coronary thrombosis or occlusion of 
the coronary vessels by a thrombus, very often results from a cloi, 
formed by the cholesterol thickened walls of blood vessels finding its 
way to the heart. The kidney regulate the amount of water and the 
concentration of certain chemicals in the blood. Malfunctioning of this 
organ may bring about a change in the viscosity of the blood and a 
consequent increase or decrease in blood pressure. A change in the level 
of production of albumins and globulins also affects the viscosity and 
hence the pressure of blood in the vessels. High blood pressure 
decrease longevity. Too low blood pressure affects the kidneys. In 
mammals and birds it serves as a mechanism for distributing heat and 
regulating body temperature. Certain chemicals in the blood bring 
about blood clotting to stop leaks in system that are large enough to be 
serious. Other chemicals such as hormones serve to regulate various 
body functions. The mean ideal pressure level for an adult is 120/80 
mercurial pressure. If the blood pressure of a person is. 120/70 it is a 
case of low blood pressure. It is more than 150/90, the person is said to 
be hyper-tensive person suffering from diabetes, kidney trouble or eye 
;* disease in said to be hyper-tensive even if blood pressure is 140/90. The 
higher the blood pressure, the greater to the damage to the walls over 


(183) 


the months or years that a patient has to suffer because of hypertension. 
Rheumatic fever is a disease of the childhood and adolescence related 
to infection with group a haemolytic streptococci, which may effect 
the heart leading to carditis stenosis (inflammation of the heart) or 
narrowing of the mitral valve, resulting in decrease of blood flow from 
the left atrium to the left ventricle. If left untreated, it will lead to failure 
of the left side of the heart and consequently the right side also. The 
tricuspid (2 upper chambers of heart are known as atria, 2 lower 
chambers are know as ventricles) valve may also be involved in 
rheumatic fever, causing its stenosis. Apart from these cases, there are 
also aortic valve stenosis and pulmonary valve stenosis leading to heart 
failures. The most common cause of death, among people today is the 
“heart attack" or myocardial infarction wherein the total occlusion of 2 
or 3 major coronary arteries leads to necrosis of the myocardium when 
there is imbalance between coronary blood supply and myocardial 
demand. Obesity, stress, smoking, hereditary factors increase the risk 
of heart attack. Homocysteine (an amino acid) present in the blood is 
slowly emerging as the single largest risk factor for heart diseases and 
strokes (TOI, June 27,2006 P13). A deficiencyof folic acid, vitamins B, 
and B,, contributes to hyperhomocysteinemia or increase in ~the 
homocysteine levels, which is turn increases the risk of heart attack. 


Astrological Factors : We should not unnecessarily feel sorry by 
observing the happenings in the world. This world and all other worlds 
in this universe will function as per their own system. We are not 
creators of those systems and therefore leave their questions to their 
creator. Astrology is a science of knowing one's character, 
potentialities, limitation etc. Precise predictions about a particular 
event can generally be made by an astrologer. One can understand from 
an astrologer about his character, tendencies, attitudes, favourable and 
unfavourable period and situations and can decide to take action best 
suited to him in that situation. What we anticipate seldom occurs; what 
we least expect generally happens. God does not want that everybody 
should be flooded with name, fame, happiness, long life etc. When both 


(184) 


Lagna and Moon are aspected by benefics, when Jupiter occupies 
Lagna whose dispositor is not afflicted and not void of strength when 
there is Gajakeshari Yoga, when the Sun is posited in Gemini or in 11" 
house it is said to provide protection. When Kendras are occupied by 
benefics, 3°/6"/1 1" house are occupied by at least two malefics there is 
no early heart attack for the native. Cancer and Leo are the seats of heart 
in natural zodiac. Their lords Sun and Moon are the Karaka planets of 
heart. When Leo, Cancer, 4" and 5" houses from Janma Lagna are 
afflicted, along with Sun and Moon, one may have heart disease. When 
Satum afflicts Leo, Aquarius and Sun, the native dies out of heart 
attack. When Saturn joins Sun, it causes palpitations and shivering of 
heart. When Ketu afflicts, the same, it causes pain in the heart. The Sun 
adversely related to 6/8/12 lords or houses in any manner is always to 
be aware of heart troubles. One has a enlarged heart when Jupiter is 
afflicted by Saturn. Mars causes stress, hypertension and ischaemia. 
Saturn leads to occlusion to coronaries, when Saturn afflicts Jupiter at 
birth, the blood pressure tends to be low (the author has Jupiter and 
Satum in his 5n house, and he has a low or normal blood pressure) the 
‘fixed signs Leo Aquarius, a Taurus Scorpio rule the blood. Watery 
signs too strongly affect blood: The Sun gives oxygen and Mars gives 
hemoglobin and iron. The adverse activities of Mars can lead to 
haemorrhage, rupture, haemorrhoids and excessive menses in women. 
Sun and Moon in airy signs, especially in Aquarius, tend to regulate 
normal blood pressure, butsubject to possible disorders of the blood 
anemia, skin and kidney troubles depending upon their placement and 
afflictions. When Moon combines with Sun, Mars and Ketu high blood 
pressures are gerierated. Strong Mars, indicates high blood pressure. 
Satum + Jupiter in 6" house, causes high blood pressure. High blood 
pressure is caused by a weak and afflicted Moon and strong but 
afflicted Mars. Low blood pressure is caused buy a weak and afflicted 
Moon and a weak but afflicted Mars. 


If the planet Mars is placed in the constellation of Ketu, low blood 
pressure is caused. High nervous strain and tension are caused by 


(185) 


afflictions to the Moon and Mercury by Uranus and other malefic 
planets. Neptune in 3°/9"/10" and afflicting the Moon, Lagna or Lagna 
lord causes much stress, Saturn and Mercury in 6m i a common sign 
causes high stress. Mercury afflicted in the 6" house denotes nervous 
tension due to over work. If the distance between Sun and Moon is 
greater than 120°, and Sun is afflicted or debilitated severe heart attack 
takes place. A report in times of India dated 9-8-2006 P 15 states that 
Insulin fights heart attack. Dose within 3hrs of stroke improves chances 
of survival. A team of doctors from the State University of New York 
has reported the matter in Aug 2006. Green leafy vegetables, orange 
Juice, lentils, enriched cereals are good sources of folate, which can 
lower heart disease. Small percentage of alcohol in the blood, reduces 
chances of heart attack. Beer is good for heart patients. Beer's 
cardiovascular benefits are likely to polyphenols. If Mars is in the 
constellation of Sun or vice versa, high blood pressure is caused. 


Yogas for heart diseases and heart operation: When we consider 
disease or blood pressure and heart disease in a horoscope, we analyses 
mainly the 4”, 5" and 9" houses. 5" house governs the left ventricle, 9n 
house governs the left ventricle. The 4* house in a horoscope is also 
important when we have to consider the possibility myocardial 
infraction leading to heart attack. So the 4" Sh as well as % houses 
should generally be free from malefics for a healthy life. Mars governs 
blood. So the afflictions of Sun, Moon, Mars, Cancer, Leo and any 
relation of any of them with Kanya rasi or 6n lord, give rise to diseases 
of heart. The following yogas are worth mentioning. 


1. Saturn in 4” and Sun conjunct with 6" lord and a malefic. 
2. When Saturn aspects Sun, Leo or both there is incipient heart 
trouble in the native. 


3. Moon hemmed between malefics and Saturn in the 7”. 
4. — Saturn in 4" and Rahu in 12°. 


5. * malefic in the 4" house, and its lord conjoined with malefics or 
hemmed between malefics. 


(186) 


6. | Moon Mars, Saturnand Rahu in the 12h 
7. 5" lord in combustion, debilitation or in an inimical house. 
8. Moon in Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio or Capricom with a malefic. 


Example 17 Bye-pass heart surgery at the age of 3 : DOB: 3-4- 
1993/ 9=50AM/ Manchester. Gemini Lagna 25-3, Mars, LeoMoon 2- 
18, Virgo Jupiter(R), Scorpio Rahu, Pluto, Sagittarius Uranus, 
Neptune; Aquarius, Mercury, Satum; Pisces Sun, Venus (R), Deha = 
Aries, Jeeva= Sagittarius. 

Here we find the seat of heart Leo is 
aspected by deadly Satum. 4" house is 
tenanted by 7°/10" lord retrograde Jupiter. 
Jupiter is suffering from Kendradhipati 
Dosha (blemishes), 5” lord is retrograde 
but is exalted in Pisces. A retrograde 
exalted planet, behaves like a debilitated 
planet. 4" lord is conjoined with Saturn 
and is squared by Rahu Ketu axis. Ketu is 
posited in the 4" house from 4* lord, Mars 
is posited in the 4* from St lord. 6n lord in Lagna is aspecting 
retrograde Jupiter in 4in (a debilitated planet causes some deficiency of 
the house, wherever it is located). All these unfortunate planetary 
configuration triggered off the tragedy in the early days of life. Malefic 
Ketu dasa added fuel into the fire. Operation took place during Ketu- 
Jupiter dasa. Dasa of two retrograde planets are never welcome. As per 
KCD, he opened his life with Libra dasa for 14 yrs. Its lord has moved 
to the 6* house from its natal position and is retrograde, combust. Such 
an evil planet will only bring tragedy in life. Deha =Aries, Jeeva = 
Sagittarius. Deha sign is hemmed between malefics and Deha lord has 
moved to 3rd house from its natal position and hence suffered from 
placement related blemishes. Both Deha and Jeeva signs are afflicted 
and hence he suffered. The distance between Sun and Moon > 120°, 
which is a prerequisite for a major heart disorder, at a young age. As per 


(187) 


aphorism no (7), he suffered from heart diseases. 


Example 18 : Bye-pass surgery in the middle ages. DOB: 5-3-65, 
4=30 AM, Sitapur, UP, Capricorn Lagna; Aquarius Sun, Mercury, 
Venus, Saturn; Pisces Moon 8-54; Aries- Jupiter; Taurus Rahu; Leo 
Mars (R), Deha= Libra, Jeeva= Virgo 

Leo is occupied by retrograde Mars in the 


star of Sun in a company of Uranus and 
Pluto. Sun and Saturn are conjoined with 


6" lord Mercury in Aquarius. Mars in the 
constellation of Sun increased high blood 
pressure. 4th lord is aspected by 6* lord, CS 


Saturn and Sun. 5" lord is a combust 

planet and Rahn occupies his 5" honse. 

Rahu Ketu axis passing through 5"/11" 

axis always generate dangerous diseases, 

because in that case 8n honse is squared by this evil axis. The bye-pass 
operation took place in Jan 2005, while he was passing Venus-Moon- 
Rahu dasa. Combust 5” lord, a retrograde or a debilitated planet in Leo 
promote heart surgery. The distance between Sun and Moon is < 30°, 
and hence early surgery was not applicable. 7" lord Moon acted as a 
Maraka for him. The dasa of planets in 2/12 or 6/8 relationships are 
usually bad. As per KCD, he was born with Savya group B, 3ra quarter. 
He was born with 27y-7m-2d balance in the Is circle. Scorpio balance 
2y-7m-2d. Scorpio, Tula, Virgo passed away smoothly. 2nd cycle of 
Tula dasa bronght disaster from him.. The Punargamangatis are never 
good for freedom from diseases. Tula lord Venus is a combust planet. 
Moreover his Deha lord Venus, and Jeeva lord Mercury have conjoined 
together. Union of Deha and Jeeva lords invite calamities in life. 
Example 19. Bye-pass heart surgery in the middle ages (less than 
40) : DOB 24-2-56, 5=33 PM, Ghaziabad. Leo Lagna, Jupiter (R), 
Scorpio Saturn, Rahu; Sagittarius Mars; Capricorn Mercury; 
Aquarius Sun; Pisces Mercury; Taurus Ketu; Cancer- Moon 


(188) 


Mercury hemmed between malefics, . 
afflicted by Saturn acted as a Markesh for SatR 
him. 4th house is occupied by Rahu and 


Satum, St lord is retrograde, occupies 

Lagna and is aspected by Saturn and Sun. Se <~ 
Afflicted Leo and Aquarius only invite 
heart ailments. Cancer sign is afflicted by Mars and Rahu which added 
fuel to the fife: As per KCD he has Capricorn as Deha Rasi, and Gemini 
Jeeva Rasi. 6/8 relation is most dangerous and is harmful for health, 
freedom for litigation and the like. He was born with Savya Group A. 2™ 
qtr. 1" cycle=80yr 9m3d. He was pulled down during Kanya dasa, 


whose lord Mercury is placed in Deha sign. Such a dasa yields wrath 
from heaven. Contact of Deha and Jeeva signs are not welcome 


Example 20. Bye-pass heart surgery at the fag end of Life : 
DOB 26-1 -1933, 3=20PM, Bankura, Birth Chart : Gemini Lagna; Leo 
Mars (R), Jupiter (R), Ketu; Sagittarius Venus; Capricorn Sun, Saturn, 
Mercury, Moon; Aquarius Rahu; 


Sun is in Aquarius, a retrograde Jupiter in 
Leo was enough to pull him down during \ gk” 
Venus Mercury dasa, on 29-3-94. 2nd Jord 

ah 8 


Leo is occupied by three retrograde 
planets, both Sun and Moon are afflicted 
by Saturn. Adhi Yoga or Class I Raja 
Yogas like Dharmakurmadhipati yoga, 
Mudrika Yoga, etc delays heart attack. He 
has Adhi Yoga. His two sons and a 
daughter are prosperous persons of the 
society. In March 2005, he had the bye- 
pass heart surgery during Mercury-Mars 
dasa. His Mars is retrograde, which is the 
6" lord. Retrogression of 6" lord invites many litigations in life. Union 
of 6* lord with Ketu always invites an operation. Mars and Ketu are the 


(189) 


lords of operation. During Dhanu dasa in KCD, the operation took 
place. Its lord is placed with 6* lord Mars and Ketu inviting surgery. 
His eldest son is aMD doctor of AIMS, Delhi. 


Example 21. Bye-pass surgery which brought paralysis of the 
body on both sides at the fag end of life : DOB 28-7-1941, 22=00hrs, 
Delhi. Pisces Lagna, Ketu; Taurus Saturn, Jupiter; Gemini Merucry; 
Cancer Sun, Pluto; Leo Virgo Rahu Moon. 


Her 6" lord Sun is placed in the 5" house 
with Pluto and is aspectd by Saturn. This 
evil planetary configuration made her life 
miserable from 26-6-2001, when the bye- 
pass heart surgery took place during 
Saturn-Venus-Sun dasa. She became 
paralytic on the both sides from Saturn- 
Venus-Saturn (from 2003), In KCD, 
Dahnu dasa started from Nov. 1995. its 
lord Jupiter has moved to the 6n house 
from its natal position and has conjoined with deadly 11/12]ord Saturn. 
End of Dhanu dasa brought severe health hazards for her. As per 
Vimsottori Saturn- Venus dasa ruined her life, This dasa is bad for 99% 
persons of this earth. Her husband is a medical doctor. 


Example 22. Rheumatic heart which caused early death 
DOB: 24-7-1949, 6=30 PM, Purulia, Birth chart : Capricorn Lagna, 
Jupiter, Pisces Rahu; Gemini Mars, : 


Moon2]1-35; Cancer Pluto, Mercury, Sun; 
Leo Saturn, Venus; Virgo, Ketu, 
Neptune. 

She was born as, the last child of a 

prosperous man of Bengal. She had four 


elder brothers. She was suffering from 
rheumatic heart since birth. Leo was Sabir ON 
hemmed between malefics, Cancer is also 


(190) 


* hemmed between malefics. So 4m and 5" houses of the zodiac were 

‘ afflicted and weak. Rheumatic diseases are of various types, such as 

: arthritis, rheumatic heart, gout, reheumatic fevers etc. When Windy 
planets Moon, Mercury Venus and Satur are weak, combusted, 
afflicted, badly situated, conjoined with lord of dusthana and are also 
someway related with sixth house, they give rise to rheumatic diseases. 
Her Moon is placed in the 6” house with badhaka lord Mars and Uranus. 
Mercury is afflicted by 8* lord Sun and Pluto; Venus is placed in the 8h 
house with Satur and is. hemmed between malefics. Weak Mercury 
Moon, Venus generated rheumatic fevers for her through afflicted 
heart. Though doctors advised her parents not to arrange her marriage, 
her father and brothers arranged her marriage in 1970. She got a son in 
197] and her son is a well established chartered accountant in Kolkata, 
who is free from diseases. From 1980 onwards, she lost her health 
rapidly and was reduced to a skeleton. On 20.10.1983 at 4:45 AM she 

: breathed her last. By adding Lagna, Sun, Moon, Jupiter we get her 
death point on 0°12°9'. Saturn was transiting Libra at the time of sad 
demise (the formula developed by the author in 1989). She died during 

Mercury-Mercury dasa. 


¢ Example 23. No heart problem inspite of several astrological yogas 
[for this disease : DOB: 26-8-1935, IPM, Amritsar, Birth Chart : 
* Scorpio Lagna, Sagittarius Rahu; Aquarius Satur (R); Leo 

"Mercury, Sun, Venus (R); Libra Jupiter, Mars. 

4" house of Lagna is occupied by 
retrograde Satum, 5" lord is 12" with rapt 
; conjunction with Mars, in opposition of 
* Uranus; Cancer sign is afflicted by Pluto, 
iLeo is aspected by Saturn and Rahu, Sun is 

spoiled by Neptune, Satum and Rahu. 
* There is a dictum if Sun is having any 

relation with 6"/8"/12" houses he should 
be.careful for heart diseases. His Saturn 


(191) 


conjoined with 8 lord Mercury Alas he did not die of any heart 
diseases. He is hale and hearty in Kolkata. During Mars Rahu he 
suffered for stomach. pain in Aug 2006, Moon has become much 
weaker for the placement retrograde Saturn in the 8" house of Moon. 
Why is he hale and hearty? Emperor Aurangzeb was born 3-11-1618 
and died on 20.2.1707. Indians used to die within 40 yrs in his days. He 
had also spoiled Sun, spoiled Moon, afflicted Cancer Rasi, afflicted 
Leo. Gaj a Keshari yoga, Parijata Yoga and other class | yogas made him 
a legendary figure (Advanced predictive Astrology Vo, 2 P 127 by Dr. 
S. S, Chatterjee). When there are so many powerful yogas, heart failure 
does not take place at an early age. The native of this example is also 
born with Gaja Keshri yoga and Parijata yoga, Lord of Lagna is placed 
in the 12", whose dispositor is in the 10°; whose dispositor is also in the 
10", forming this unique Parijata yoga. The above gentleman reached 
Calcutta at the age of 14 and is now a prominent businessman of iron. 
He has low blood pressure 120/80, throughout his life. He established 
his BP level using a class one ruby. Low BP persons have lower risk of 
heart attack. His Mars is placed in the 12” house in the birth chart and in 
the 8n house in Navamsa. Weak Moon, weak Mars generated low bipod 
pressure and saved him from any severe heart attack at an early life. 


OBESITY 


A billion people out of the world's 6.5 billion population in 2007 are 
now considered overweight, compared with 800 million who do not 
have enough to eat (TOI, Oct 21 P 331). Being overweight is perhaps 
the biggest health problem among middle income groups allover the 
world. On an average over 60% of the adults in the developed countries 
are overweight. Of these, more than 20% are considered obese and are 
consequently at increased risk of an early death. Parents should 
remember that their child will lose intelligence level, which is directly 
linked with obesity. All brainy children are lean and thin. Few people 
are truly "fat and happy". Obesity can have divesting effect on health, 
obesity is strongly linked with depression and other mood disorder. 
Research says, fat people are;not more jolly. Obese people have an 


(192) 


increased risk of coronary heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, 
diabetes and certain types of cancer. Other health consequences include 
: damage to the weight bearing joints. This leads to osteoarthritis and 
i disability, which perpetuate to vicious circle by restricting movement, 
‘ leading to further weight gain. There is a close relationship between the 
amount of food eaten, specially starchy, sugary, fatty food and obesity. 
Surprisingly, even a small amount of excess food can make one put on 
! weight. Movement and exercise take off weight. If the calories coming 
in by way of food are in excess of the calories going out by way of 
movement and exercise, the calories get stored in our body as fat; and 
: obesity begains. Even a little excess mounts up and in the course of time 
! the result is substantial overweight. Hormones and heredity factors 
play the vital role. An elephant's body cannot be like a calf. A person 
who was obese as a child may always store fat more readily than a 
person who started life thin. Obesity is also a matter of one's luck and 
metabolism. Some people eat and drink enormous quantities of 
calories and yet never put on weight. Their bodies seem to burn up these 
calories. Yet, there are other people, unfortunately the majority, who, 
even if they eat a little excess food, have in increase in weight. In a 
hotel, an expensive bill containing many items can be a most dangerous 
perquisite after 40. An iron will is necessary not to over drink or 
overeat. Because metabolism slows with age, some put on weight as 
ithey approach middle age. Older people also may be less active; in 
: either case, calorie needs decline with age and a person's food intake 
eshould be scaled back accordingly. Jogging, swimming, bicycle 
running helps. Eat fresh vegetables and fruits. Avoid oily foods, alcoho! 
and potato chips. Convert your height into cm and subtract 100, for 
knowing the maximum weight, that your body will allow to carry. 
Suppose a man is 200 cm tall, he can be as high as 100 kg. Average 
Indians have 170-180 cm height. So a body weight beyond 80 kg is 
-risky affair. Any person who is above 50 yrs. should take 12 
chaptis/day, some curd, vegetable and fresh fruits, should never eat too 
much at a time. Slim people enjoy life in much better way compared to 


(193) 


a overweight person. Drink 4-5 liters of water for removing the waste 
material of the body through urine. Young girls will hate a obsessed 
man. Obesity is acurse not boon. Woman who gain 20 kg or more after 
the age of 18 are twice as likely to develop breast cancer after 
menopause than those who remain the same weight. 


Astrological Factors of Obesity: 


Everything in life depends on the strength of the horoscope, 9" lord/9" 
house, Jupiter and Sun. Dasa sequences as advocated by sage Parasar 
are stunningly accurate. When 9" house is weak, everything evaporates 
in air. We know that obsessed persons are not jolly persons. So there is 
something with the luck factor. Aspect of Jupiter or Rahu in Lagna 
makes somebody obsessed. When Lagna or its lord are influenced by 
watery planets Venus, Moon, one gains weight easily. It should be 
rernembered that all extra weight persons have either afflicted 9" house 
or afflicted 9" lord, because they are unlucky persons. Either luminary 
in Cancer tends the mind to crave for eating, which may cause over 
eating and possibly obesity.. The Moon afflicted in Cancer or Scorpio 
indicates impure kind of obesity in females. Jupiter in 6n can make one 
obese due to overeating. Many planets in watery signs and involved in 
affliction may also cause obesity. Venus sometimes leads to obesity due 
to bad habits, sedentary habits and gastronomical indiscretions. Most 
parents love a fat chubby baby, with the result that they grossly 
overfeed their children. The eating habits formed in childhood continue 
for the rest of one's life. The author warns the parents, not to overfeed 
their babies, which will reduce the IQ level. A fat boy ora girl can never 
stand first in any examination. Most brainy and intelligent boys and 
girls come from the middleclass families of India. Afflicted Venus 
Moon, Jupiter and Rahu dasa antardasa produce a serious disease 
named obesity. We shall now discuss a fewcase histories with details of 
their achievements in life. 


Example 24. Dull life of a fat man : DOB 19-8-1964/12=30 
P‘4./Gwalior Birth Chart : Scorpio Lagna; Sagittarius Ketu, Moon; 


(194) 


E Aquarius Satum (R); Taums Jupiter; Gemini Rahn, Venus, Mars; Leo 
; Sun, Mercury. Balance ~=Venus 12y 8m 9d 


~— 


: He was bom in arich family. His both the FI 
«, parents died in 2000 (mother in Feb. fathei em ae 
> in Nov). He is tall 5111” with bodyweight 
; 200 kg. He managed to pass BA and 


: somehow his parents found a wife for him 
iin 1993. He got a daughter on 21-3- 


: 1994, who is also a fatty girl. He never 
[goes out of the house, spends time Vhs Senna 
watching TV/reading various Rah 


newspapers. His extra smart * younger 

:brother runs the entire business, and gives him enough money for 
running his family. The author visited them in 2004. His Adhi Yoga, 
‘both from Lagna and Moon confirms his high status in life. Adhi Yogas 
provides wealth, without much difficulty. His Lagna lord is conjoined 
[with Venus, and Rahu. So aspect of Jupiter in Lagna conjunction of 
+ Venus (a watery planet) and Rahu with Lagna lord Mars contributed to 
*the haphazard growth. His %n house is hemmed between malefics, and 
:9" lord is conjoined with Ketu. Retrograde Saturn in the 4th house added 
‘fuel to the fire. Affliction of 8" lord with Satum & Ketu, added his 
isufferings. He is really very unlucky person, because of strained 
trelationship with wife. Afflicted watery planet Venus dasa in his infant 
idays brought his sufferings in the form of the obesity.. He is a calm and 
[quiet person, and accepted everything in real life with very cool brain. 
{His younger brother is a very dynamic man with excellent health and 
[happy married life. ~ 


Example 25. Fat son of a marine engineer in Mumbai : 
DOB : 26-8-1989/19=21 hrs/Caleutta. Pisces Lagna; Gemini Moon, 
Hupiter; Leo Ketu, Sun Mars; Virgo, Venus, Mercury; Sagittarius 
Saturn (R); Aquarius Rahu 


tHis lord of Lagna is conjoined with a watery planet Moon and aspected 


¥ (195) 


by Rahu, So Rahu and Moon contributed 
for his overweight. Venus (a watery 
planet) is also aspecting the Lagna. The 
author visited the above family in Dec. 
2003 in Mumbai and saw the boy with his 
eyes. Look his 9in lord Mars is placed with 
6” lord Sun and Ketu. His Sun is heavily 
afflicted,, by Mars, Ketu, Saturn is 
aspecting his 8” lord Venus. Obesity 
trapped him as soon as Jupiter dasa was switched on during | is infant 
days. Jupiter and Rahu are the significators of obesity. He is very poor 
in his studies and is no way in comparison to his illustrious father. 


Example 26. Obesity turned the life to hell : DOB 6-9-1983, 
4=55 AM/Gwalior. Birth Chart: Leo - Lagna, Venus (R), Sun, Moon 3- 
5; Virgo Mercury (R), Libra Saturn; Scorpio Jupiter, Ketu; Taurus 
Rahu; Cancer Mars, 


She is the only daughter of a prosperous 

businessman of Gurgaon. She was quite 

OK upto Oct. 2001. She was a slim lady 

upto Sep 200! and was pursuing BA Eng 

(H) course. She passed Venus-Jupiter- 

Rahu dasa between 29-6-2001 to 23-11- 

01. From Oct Nov 2001, she gained 20 

kg. She is 5'3” tall and her weight feached 

85 kg. All the planets in the dasa antardasa 
are placed in kendras and hence increased ~ 

her weight. Rahu and Jupiter are the main significators of obesity. 
Retrograde Venus just delivered the worst results for her. Some how 
she managed BA Eng (H) degree but has lost charm in life. She cannot 
sleep, for the presence of debilitated Mars, in the 12" house of Sun. she 
has cynus problem which blocks her noses all the time. There was also 
an operation on the nose, which yielded futile results for her. She is 


(196) 


suffering from anaemia, loss of appetite, can't digest anything, and 
getting pain all the body. She is using specks from the age of 15 yrs. 
Dasa of retrograde Venus in the star of Ketu proved very costly for her. 
Watch her 9n house/9" lord are spoiled by Saturn from the 3r house. So 
without luck it is not possible to do well on this planet earth. Everything 
evaporates in air, when 9 house/9" lord are weak and afflicted in the 
horoscope. 


Example 27. Ruined education for obesity : DOB 14-5-1981 / 
5=34PM/Delhi Libra Lagna; Capricorn Ketu; Aries Mars; Taurus 
Venus, Mercury, Sun, Cancer Rahu; Virgo Saturn (R) Jup., 
Moon 10-45. 


He is the son of prosperous businessman, 
and went to Russia for studying Gemology 
during 1997-99. When all the kendras are 
occupied by malefics, the native does not 
enjoy good health. From the standard VI 
he started gaining weight during Mars- 
Rahu dasa. In 2006 he is 92 kg. He is only 
5'6" so looks a very fat man. His Sun is 
<1°, and is placedin the 8" house. He is not 
doing well in life. His handicraft (export) 
business not giving him sufficient money. His 9" house is hemmed 
between malefics. His Rahu in 10, aspect of Jupiter on Lagnesh 
provided extra fat in the body. When Sun is in zero degree such natives 
always struggles in life. Six planets occupy 8"/12" houses. Such native 
goes down in the general scheme of life. He did not finish his studies in 
Russia and returned without any valid degree. 


DRUG ADDICTS 
Opium, cannabis and coca have been used by humans for millennia. 
South American, Indian chew coca like we eat paan. Coca was 


originally the zing in Cocacola, and it gave the pep to Pepsi. A tea 
brewed of coca leaves is a healthy stimulant. In May 2006, Promod 


5 


(197) 


Mahajan a senior most party leader of BJP, ahd ex-central minister, 
/ advisor to Ex-Prime Minister, Atal Behari Bajpai was killed with 
gunfire in point blank range by his younger brother in Mumbai. Within 
one monith his private secretary Vivek Moitra died consuming heroin 
and his son Rahul Mahajan, returned from death. He was arrested from 
Apollo Hospital for the drug abuse but the court granted freedom 
observing his tender age and a nice family background. Over recent 
years, the habit of consuming drugs are increasing in the upper middle 
class family throughout the globe. Why Rahul Mahajan consumed 
heroin is a matter of controversy. Some people like to be very famous 
through scandals. One man's misfortune is another man's juicy gossip. 
In today's rumour hungry times, scandal management is a skill 
everyone should cultivate. Scandal management may stain relations 
but the stain is not indelible. Remember how Late Princess Diana chose 
to keep quiet whenever she was faced with a scandal. She clearly 
recognized the voracious appetite that the most competitive media in 
the world had for gossip and scandal, she kept tight lipped about her 
nine lovers. In fact, her supposed paramour, Dodi Fayed, had problems 
with drugs, money and prostitutes. But she remained mum. What needs 
to be examined here whether scandal scar celebrities forever. As media 
personality Mark Tully says, 'Scandals may strain reputation, but the 
stain is not indelible. Before long, the accused are back in public life, 
their kurta pyjamas whiter than white. Which is probably what will 
happen with Rahul Mahajan provided he makes the right moves. In 
Britain alone, it is estimated Vz million people are addicted to 
amphetamine, barbiturates, cannabis and other drugs. It is estimated 
that several millions of people in Britain, USA, African countries, in 
Asia have one time or another committed legal offences by using 
cannabis and other such drugs, Cannabis, marijuana, hashish are all 
parts of the same plant, secretly grown in Afghanistan (80% total 
production), India and Pakistan. These drugs are sometimes called 
‘pot’. Hashish or charas is very popular in Indian lower class people. 
Some sadhus use charas for meditation purposes. The force of the 
intoxicant magnifies the force of his concentration, since the mind is a 


(198) 


chemical phenomenon. As the concentration is strengthened, the image 
of the deity of which is being continually formed, in the subtlé body is 
made firmer and clear and this brings success at worship. Hashish is the 
pollen and resin of the cannabis plant. Charas is prepared by taking the 
fresh fleece from a slaughtering sheep, staffing it full of this resin, and 
burying it in the ground for a month. The fat from the sheep and the 
lanolin from the fleece mix with the resin and liquefy it, and the liquid 
drips into a little pot. After a month the pot is removed and there you 
have the charas. One of the big disadvantage of intoxicants is their side 
effects. Smoke chillum after chillum of marijuana or hashish and you 
are bound to develop a terrible cough and probably chronic bronchitis. 
One's liver will be damaged completely after drinking whisky daily. 
The effect of smoking cannabis comes within thirty minutes. If 
cannabis eaten, it takes at least three hours to get the full effect. Taking 
cannabis often give rise to a wonderful euphoric feeling and increases 
the person's response to external stimuli, colours and sounds. Social 
intercourse becomes much more intense and meaningful for such 
people. Cannabis makes one psychologically dependent. It may lead to 
a loss of interest in any purposeful occupation and also cause a general 
decline in initiative and- efficiency. Drugs such as Benzedrine and 
Dexedrine, stimulates mental activity, reduce fatigue and depression 
prevent sleep and reduce the appetite for food. In 2006, a new drug, 
Ecstasy has entered the market. An addiction of ‘hard' drugs such as 
heroin, has a disruptive effect on the psychological and physical 
development of drug users. Heroin is the most dangerous and a young 
heroin drug addict can die within three years. LSD is also a dangerous 
drug; ‘bad trips' may mean a frightening, unpleasant hallucinatory 
experience lasting for several hours. Abnormal mental reactions may 
recur for hours, days or even weeks after exposure to this drug. For 
example, one may want to jump from a high window in the mistaken 
belief that one can fly. Drug abuse and addiction is a widespread social 
problem. Millions of people battle addictions to nicotine, alcohols and 
illicit drugs. Becoming addicted is not the intention of recreational drug 
use, but addition can occur when drug use becomes frequent. 


' (199) 


Eventually it can become a habit, which is not only costly but also 
destructive. -The sadhus of India take tobacco, hashish to sharpen the 
mind. The author has found the natives who are very good in 
mathematics are usually smokers. Tobacco plant has hundreds of uses 
in Ayurveda. But today it is misused..Smail dosage of alcohol does not 
permit heart attack. So casual use of tobacco and alcohol is not harmful. 
In an ordinary person the consumption of alcohol will lead to an 
enkindling of the Jathara Agni. Ayurveda recognized this and 
prescribes medicinal wines when there is a need to increase the appetite 
and promote digestion. Alcohol should sharpen mind, so much that a 
problem, which might take hours to think out in the normal state can be 
done instantaneously. Overdoses of every drug is very dangerous 
which generate many diseases and deaths are accelerated. 


Detoxification Procedures: 


We consume poison though drinking water, foods and through polluted 
air. Water is laced with chemicals foreign to our physiologists, so we 
should clean our body, regularly. One needs detoxification when: 
L. Unexplained headaches or a back pain. 2. Joint pain or arthritis. 
3. Falling memory. 4. Depression or diminishing energy. 5. Brittle 
nails and hair. 6. Abnormal body odour, coated tongue, bad breath. 7. 
Unexplained weight gain. 8. Frequent allergies. 9. A history of heavy 
alcohol use. 10 A history of natural or synthetic steroid hormone use. 
11. Anexposure to cleaning solvents, pesticides, diuretics and certain 
drugs. For a toxin free body, all one has to do is to eat a lot of fiber foods, 
drinks, lots of water (4/5 liters). Fruits, salads and green vegetables will 
clean the bowel. Scrubbing one's body from the ankle upwards help in 
lymphatic drainage, rubbing the nape of the neck with a towel improves 
blood circulation, and gently scrabbling the spine stimulates all organs. 
It is urgently needed to take shower daily and shake the skin clean using 
good toilet soap. Clean habits make anybody healthy. Toxins accelerate 
aging process. Body detoxification refers to the cleaning of bowels, 
kidneys, lungs, liver, blood organs involved in the expulsion of wastes 


(200) 


and chemicals. Drinking excess water will detoxify kidneys. Take 
carrot juice mixed with lime and a few drops of olive oil for cleaning the 
liver. It will clear all the junks stored in the body. Take this mixed juice 
for 7 days every month. Fasting once in a week is a good process in the 
detoxification of the poisonous materials stored in the body. Plato and 
Aristatole fasted regularly to enhance physical health and stimulate 
students for the mental powers. Pythagoras required for 40 days to 
purify body and mind through fasting before receiving his students. 


Galen, Paracalsus and Hipocrates recognized as the founding fathers 
of Westem Medicine prescribed fasting for all serious ailment. If we 
observe nature, we find dogs, cows and buffaloes refuse food, when 
they are ill. Dogs eat Durba grass and vomit. In this process they are 
cured, Frail, pregnant, heart patients, diabetic patients shall not observe 
fasting. They should eat very very less food for survival only. One 
should think before eating huge quantity of food, "when 250 gm of 
food material twice a day, can keep anybody healthy what is the use of 
consuming 5-20 kg of food daily and burdening the stomach? Only one 
lemon juice/day can keep anybody fresh beyond 65 yrs or so without 
consumption of much food. Gravy, French fries are responsible for 
cardiovascular disease and cancer. After 35, one should only eat boiled 
or baked potatoes. Oily foods are dangerous for health. Try to eat Indian 
chapati, salad, boiled green vegetables, yogurt and some seasonal fruits 
to live for at least 80 yrs without any disease. Avoid oil + ghee as much 
possible for eliminating heart diseases. 


Planets and drug addicts: 


Moon is the significatorof eating. If the lord of 2m house is located with 
Satum, Mars, Gulika, Rahu or Ketu, is in inimical nayamsa and devoid 
of benefic aspect the native takes forbidden food. Basically, 2" house 
and 24 lord should always be associated with Jupiter, Venus, Mercury 
and the Moon. In case, it is associated with Mars, Saturn, Rahu or Ketu 
one's life will always be in turmoil. Such a person will be a compulsive 
liar and will not enjoy good social status. One will not be considered a 


(201) 


pious and good person but would be always regarded as a cunning 
person and people would always be on guard. The natives may 
insincerely express desires yet others may not believe them due to 
which a communication gap will be there. The author has traveled 
entire earth and has observed, semi literate persons develop the habit of 
intoxication. Our education is controlled from the 2” house, so 
naturally benefic planets in the 2™ house and combination of benefic 
planets with 2™ lord will produce highly qualified persons. The author 
worked with Prof. K.E. Heusler in West Germany, Prof. Kurt Schwabe 
in East Germany, Prof Howard Pickering in USA. All these three great 
professors are non-smokers and non-alcoholic. Prof. Heusler even 
hates cold drinks. The author has never found, more pious, more 
learned person on earth than them. It is probable the frustrations and 
inferior brain power makes dmg addicts and alcoholic persons. 
Affliction of Saturn or twelfth from Saturn makes very repulsive habit 
of living, bad eating habits eating stale food, cold meat etc. So it is to be 
anticipated that all the drug addicts are sub-standard persons of the 
society. If somebody's child is not meritorious parents should watch 
him in such a way that the poor child does not become a drug addict. 
Everybody knows that Rahul Mahajan is not a good student. He failed 
miserably, in all the areas he had tried so far. He became a pilot, but was 
not allowed to drive the plane. He was forced to watch only. We feel 
sorry for Vivek Moitra. This poor chap, in order to please his new 
master Rahul Mahajan took heroin and lost his life. Think about agony 
of his aged parents who lost their only son through a tragic accident. In 
a sensational news in Times of India dated 21-6-2006 P 13, they are 
teenage girls of Indian origin, bom and brought up in Canada are 
increasingly turning to a life of crime, peddling drugs for easy money 
and to the able to boast of toughie boy friends on their arms. South 
Asian gangs are very serious in all of Canada. Besides British 
Columbia, these gangs are also a huge headache for police of Ontario 
province, which has also a dense population of Punjabis. According to 
J.N. Bhasin in Sarvarth Chintamoni P 99, Planets Saturn, Ketu and 


(202) 


Rahu stand for poison. So when 2nd lord, Moon are heavily afflicted, 
and a planet out of Rahu, Ketu Saturn occupy the 2™ house the native 
may take all forbidden drugs. Such natives also try to commit suicide 
by consuming poison. Ketu in 2nd invariably makes drug addicts. Mars 
is also a poisonous planet in the 2™ house, when it is aspected by an 
another malefic. Actually smoking and chewing are closely connected 
with Neptune. Neptune afflicted in Leo tends to suspension of the heart 
action though drugs, smoking opium and narcotics. Neptune in 2", 5a, 
6*, 11has the same effect. Afflicted Neptune in 6", tends to make great 
smokers. This aphorism true to the knowledge of the author. 
Afflictions of watery signs by Mars or Saturn or both and afflictions to 
the luminaries the Ascendant and a malefic planet in 5m may lead to 
drunkenness. Venus afflicted in Aquarius indicate impure blood. Venus 
rules venous blood (white blood). We shall examine the chart of three 
drug addict cases 


Example 28 : DOB 20-9-63, 11=15 AM, Gorakhpur. Scorpio Lagna, 
Sagittarius Ketu, Capricorn Saturn; Pisces Jupiter; Gemini Rahu,; 
Virgo Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Libra Mars. 


He is the son an IFS officer. Ketu is posited 5 
in the 2™ house, 2" lord is aspected by 
Saturn and is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. 
Moon is in 30° and is also squared by 
Rahu-Ketu axis. He became drug addict at 
a very young age probably at the age of 
17/18 yrs. as per the statement of his 
mother. He married a Nigerian girl at the 
age of 20, from there he fled to Russia and 
married Olga (13.12.1975, 3=30AM, 
Moscow). Sex and drug is his passion. Poor Olga digested this 
unhealthy guy for few years. She had 2 abortions, and finally they 
separated in 1996. This guy is a sex-maniac, alcoholic, drug addict and 
is a problematic child of his parents. When Sun and Moon joins Venus 


(203) 


one's married life gets ruined. Sun and Moon add cold water on the 
married life. 


Example 29. Young age paralysis for drug addiction : 
DOB2-9-1972, 8=48AM, Kangra, HP. Virgo Lagna, Sagittarius 
Jupiter, Capricom Rahu, Taurus Saturn, Gemini, Moon; Cancer 
Ketu, Venus, Leo Mercury, Sun, Mars. 


He was very brilliant in his school/college Se estate ak 

days and became an electronics engineer 

from REC, Silchar, Assam and married his 

class friend in Dec. 1998 during Jupiter | Ners 

Venus dasa. Soon after his marriage he 

started taking various drugs from his 

inferior office friends, some of them 

worked as peons. His 2m lord Venus is 

conjoined with highly poisonous planet Rw 

Ketu and is further aspected by 6* lord 

Saturn. Moon is hemmed between malefics. Heavily afflicted sublord 

Venus added his suffering in life. He became paralytic in the left side 
and grew lunatic. He had to resign his job in 2000. His talented 
electrical engineer wife sacrificed for him. She is staying at home 

nursing her husband. She is earning her bread though tuition. In 2006 
Aug, he has recovered from paralysis, but has lost memory. He is 
earning Rs. 5000 per month in a private company. When 8" house of 
Jupiter is occupied by retrograde planets, one fails to earn much money 
in life. Ketu in the 8" house of Jupiter, decreased his wisdom, earning 
power recovery power. Saturn in the 9n house, affliction of 9" lord with 
Ketu heavy affliction of 31 house by Satur and Mars did not allow him 
to prosper in his career. It is a case where we find Jupiter suffering from 
Kendra adhipati Dosha, showered cold water on his career. When 9” 

house and its lord are not favoruable, the native becomes a bundle of 
failures in life Being an educated person he consumed drugs. So God 

punished him severely for his misdeeds. One should never cross the 


(204) 


limit. N.T. Rama Rao died during Venus-Jupiter dasa, Jupiter-Venus, 
Venus Jupiter dasa are bad for 99%persons of this earth for career. This 
dasa ruins one's career. 


Example 30: DOB 28-1] -1942 at 702 AM Bankura, WB. Scorpio - 
Lagna. Mercury, Venus; Aquarius Ketu, Taurus Satum(R), Uranus, 
Cancer Pluto, Jupiter (R) Moon 8-50. 


This is the story of an unfortunate soul of 
Bengal. He lost his father at the age of 2, 
his elder brother reared him up with other 
co-borns. He was very intelligent, but 
developed taste for tobacco from the age 
14/15 yrs. His 2nd lord Jupiter is a 
retrograde planet and is aspected by 
Saturn. Moon is also afflicted by same 
Satum. 12* house of Satum and Satum 
himself is afflicted by Mars from Libra 
Rahu is aspecting his 2™ house. So he smokes heavily from 17/18 yrs. 
of age. He opened his life. withretrograde Saturn for 1] yrs 1m 17 d it is 
well known that dasa of 8" lord from (Chandra Lagna) cuts the apple. 
cart of the native. Dasa of 8 lord did not allow him to grow well in life. 
He joined Bengal paper mill, Raniganj, at the age of 18, and became a 
clerk of the same company after passing B A at the age of 22 yrs. but lost 
his job in 1983 when this paper mill closed its door forever. About 1 
lakh persons were uprooted. His talented wife is maintaining the 
family. He married in 1977 and got a son in 1978. 7" house is opposed 
the 1" house. So any malefic planet in the 7" house may give too much 
troubles, hardships, oppositions and rivalries and this will take away 
his valuable time and energy to fight them out. His success may be 
delayed too much and his career may be ruined due to too much 
opposition and enemies. Malefics in Kendra produce Sarpayoga an 
inauspicious yoga, which ruins the native's health. Yes, he is a lean and 
thin man. Malefics in 7” will force the native to become sickly and this 


(205) 


will be the chief source of trouble. Satum in 7" does not allow the native 
for the fuller utilization of his inherent talents. One who has either Mars 
or Saturn in the 7m house it is to be understood that he has done some 
bad deeds in his previous life. Saturn is more deadly. The author has 
observed, when Saturn occupies the 7h house in Navamsa even in its 
own sign, married life becomes very dull; When Satum occupies the 7ih 
house, such a native may engage himself in too much of disputes, 
enmity, rivalries and oppositions in early life. (Astrology Nectar by Dr. 
S.S. Chatterjee) If Rahu /Saturn/ Ketu or Mars occupy the 2™ house but 
the 2™ lord is influenced by yoga karakas or benefics (natural), the 
native does not develop taste for drugs/alcohol. Our opposition in life is 
governed by 2"/4"/6"/7"/8"/12". If two or 3 planets are located in these 
sensitive houses the native may develop of taste for drugs. Uranus and 
Neptune in sixth house are too dangerous, Neptune forces the native to 
consume hard drugs when placed in the 6* house. Uranus in 6” produces 
nervous disorder, sickness, puzzling medical attendant. Strange and 
‘incurable diseases, mental rearrangement, physic experience, insanity, 
treatment by radium for cancer etc. Betty Ford (Star Teller April 2006, P 
429, Leo Lagna, .Mars; Sagittarius, Rahu; Aquarius Venus, Moon, 
Pisces Sun; Aries Mercury; Taurus Jupitery Gemini Ketu; Cancer, 
Saturn ®), ex first lady of USA (wife of Gerald Ford) consumed drugs 
in her young age for the affliction of 2n lord Mercury by Rahu and 
Satur, her 2nd house was squared by Rahu Ketu axis. 2n house was 
aspected by Saturn and Sun. 


How Cocaine hijacks our brain functions: 


The chemical responsible for loving Cocaine has now been identified 
(TOI, June 2006, P 29). Snorting or. smoking Cocaine triggers the 
production of dopamine in the brain's pleasure center, causing a feeling 
of reward that gives addicts a high and hooks. Dopamine triggers 
comings by bonding to receptors in a brain region associated with 
motivation. Under the influence of this drug, the patient will like to fly 
like a bird and may jump out of the window. So too much of Cocaine 


(206) 


addiction may bring untimely death. The greatest football player of all 
centuries Maradona of Argentina became a Cocaine addict from 2002 
onwards. In 2004 he was not allowed to play world cup for the 
identification of drugs in his urine sample. Cocaine is a South 
American Drug. Heroin is originated in India, Nepal, Pakistan and 
Afghanistan. Because of drug laws, poor people consume cheaper 
adultered concoctions, like crack and smack, and these are extremely 
harmful. Getting pure drugs is impossible today, for only brands can 
ensure purity. With brands we can better promote public health. 
Basically all the strong drugs adversely affect mental and physical 
health will continue to prey on the curiosity of the young. The US 
sponsored and UN supported war on drug is unwinnable. It is the hubris 
of those armed with state power that keeps it continuing. The Rahul 
Mahajan, Vivek Moitra case occurred in a Lutyens designed 
ministerial bungalow, the citadel of State power. If drugs are used in 
such a posh area, what hope is there that a dysfunctional police force 
like ours will ever succeed in eradicating these vices. 


Alcohol deadlier for teenage brains: 


According to TOI, July 6, 2006, 47% of those who begin drinking 
alcohol before the age of 14 become alcohol dependent at some times in 
their lives. Pregnant woman and teenagers should not drink alcohol. 
Today public health experts regularly warn that teenage drinkers run 
greatly increased risks of involvement in car accidents, fights and 
messy scenes in their hostels. Mounting research suggests that alcohol 
causes more damage to the developing brain of teenagers that was 
previously thought injuring them significantly more than it does adult 
brains. 


List of all drugs upto 2007: 


Cocaine Katamine Gammahydroxybutyrate (GHB or Grievous 
bodily harm) Solvents (tolune, glue, paints). LSD MDMA ( Ecstasy, 
Stacy, Adam, Eve) Crystal methamphetamine (Ice) Prescription drugs 
(sleeping pills, pain killers) Marijuana (pot, weed, grass, boom) 


(207) 


Crystal Methylamine. Crack (cruder cocaine mixed with baking 
soda/ammonia and water) 


Young and restless persons are the victim of drugs. Awareness 
campaigns in schools and colleges curbing easy availability and law 
enforcement are the three prongs of a stragedy to combat drugs. 
Despite much publicized death drugs and arrests, Delhi's youth 
continues its dangerous experiments with drugs. Some men-use it as a 
bait to hook woman, others know that it would give the girl high and 
would hopefully lead to great sex. Some believe that ecstasy and 
cocaine enhance sexual pleasures, In fact, that is the reason why some 
couples do drugs together, little knowing that certain drugs have been 
proven to cause sexual disorders, including erectable dysfunction. Let 
all the parents persuade their children not to touch drugs which 
ultimately ruin one's future and health. Alcoholism, as the addition is 
called pernicious. It gradually and effectively weakness the nervous 
system in the body. A time comes when the patient is no longer in 
control of his muscles as the motor never carrying to brains message to 
the muscles fail to function. 


CANCER AND ITS REMEDIAL MEASURES 


In the body millions of new cells are formed everyday and they replace 
the old wom out cells. This process is carried out by the spleen and it is 
cleared and controlled by the lymph glands. When we neglect our body, : 
the process of regeneration of new cells slows down while the process 
of decaying destroying of cells increases, more toxins gathers in the 
body, the spleen and lymph glands are overburdened. Slowly but 
steadily, there is a malignant growth in the body, but it is not easily 
noticed. In the meanwhile, the toxins/wastes are gathering in the body 
in the part which is most damaged. Only when these toxins are gathered 
in a large quantity, it forms a duct and start developing fast. In the 
meantime, the weak lymph gland is greatly damaged and through it 
throat glands are damaged. And a stage is reached when these glands 
become toxins and instead of secreting the most vital hormones in the 


(208) 


body start secreting toxins in the body. At that time this malignant 
growth becomes fast and the final signal is given by nature. Cancers 
are of two types benign (for slow attack, Jupiter is the significator of 
benign. Systematic growth is governed by Jupiter) and malignant (or 
rapid attack controlled by Rahu. Rahu represents haphazard growth). If 
a cancerous tumour of malignant type (Cancer is actually a special form 
of tumour) is removed before the cancer cells travel to other part of the 
body, the danger of cancer is removed. Benign tomours represent the 
accumulation of cells which have been transformed to reproduce in 
abnormal numbers but under circumstances where they remain within 
the tissue of origin. Cancer in males generally appear in the lungs, 
digestive system, mouth, larynx, colon and in the prostrate gland. In the 
females, the cervix ranks first followed by breast, food pipe, ovaries 
and stomach. There is some evidence that the Cancer of the cervix in 
women and of the prostrate in men are found more often in those who 
started sexual activity at a much younger age and those who changed 
partners frequently. 


Warning signal of cancer: 


a) Loss of weight. b) Asudden change inthesizeofcolourofawartor 
mole. c) Alump or thickening in the breast. d) Unusual bleeding or 
discharge. e) Hoarseness of voice or persistent cough which does not 
respond to‘medicines. f) Indigestion or difficulty. in swallowing. 
g) Achange in bowel habits or alternating constipation and diarrhea. 
h) A sore or ulcer that does not readily heal. i) Constant fever. 


Astrological Aphorisms of Cancer: 


Cancer is generated in the body when 1°/6"/8" lords makes any 
relationship with Mars, Rahu and Saturn. The role of various planets in 
producing cancer in the body are as follows:- 


Sun Head (brain), bone, stomach, eyes 
Moon , Blood, breast, lungs, heart 


Mars Blood, sex organs, uterus, waist, muscles 


(209) 


Mercury Mouth, naval region 


Jupiter Liver, tongue, spleen, thigh 


Venus . Sex organs, prostrate glands, kidney, throat 


Saturn teeth, legs, hands. 


1. When the sixth lord is a malefic and is posited in 1/8/10 houses, 
this disease is caused. 

2. Conjunction of Jupiter, Ketu. and Venus is any sign may cause 
Cancer. 

3. | When Saturn and Mars are posited (either by contact or aspect) 
opposite of Jupiter or Rahu, Cancer may occur. 

4. — If Moon is afflicted by three malefics and the lord of Lagna is 
weak, cancer is sure to attack. 

5. According to Virgu Samhita, when either 6" or 8 lord is posited 
in Lagna and is afflicted, one may have tumour. Cancer is 
actually a special form of tumour. 

6. | when Sun, Moon and Lagna are afflicted, one may have Cancer. 

7. Mars in the 6" house identical with a fixed sign will cause cancer. 

8. | When Saturn, Rahu and Mars are posited in any sign, the native 
may have cancer. These planets should not be yogakaraka for the 
ascendant lord. 

9. | When Cancer, Scorpion and Pisces are afflicted (or 4,8,12 house) 
blood cancer occurs. Moon should also be afflicted. 

10. When all the benefics are weak, Rahu and Mars are posited in any 
sign, cancer may occur. 

Cure of Cancer: 


At present, the four effective methods for treating cancer are : 
(a) surgery (b) radium therapy (c) cobalt therapy (d) chemicals. There 
are thousands of cases that have been completely cured by these 
methods. Early detection of cancer disease may save the life of the 


(210) 


patient. A variety of fresh fruits and vegetables, high fiber legumes, and 
whole grain breads are not only high in vitamins and minerals but may 
also protect against cancer. Folate (found in liver, broccoli and other 
cruciferous vegetables) is known to reduce proliferation of cancer 
cells. Alcohol is not permitted. 


Example 31 : DOB: 13-1-1923, 5:53PM, Delhi. Cancer Lagna; iso. 
Rahu, Virgo Saturn, Libra Jupiter, Sagittarius Sun; Capricorn 
Mercury, Aquarius Ketu; Pisces - Mars. 


4 


This is the birth chart of a very rich man of 
Noida who started his career from a 
scratch. He earned maximum amount of 


money in Mars Mahadasa and his wife Cy, 
also inherited huge money from her 
maternal uncle, He had a very robust 
health upto June 1993. He died of throat é 


cancer on 17.10.1993 at 10:25 PM (earlier 

1 already had forecast his cancer and the 

possible date of demise) while he was 

passing Rahu-Rahu dasa. Third house of Janma Lagna is heavily 
afflicted by Saturn, Rahu and Mars which fallin Virgo, a quite sensitive 
house.The other very sensitive house Pisces is occupied by Mars and 
Ketu, which is his 9° hou8é from Janma Lagna. A native rises very high * 
in life if he has Mars Ketu in favourable positions but they die in 
mysterious circumstances. Observing Mars Ketu in Pisces and Severe .«, 
afffiction of Virgo Pisces rasis } passed a:forecast in early 1993 that he 
woulddie ofcancer in 1993 which stunningly came true. . 


Third house of zodiac is heavily afflicted by Pluto, Mars and Saturn and ; 
Rahu. 3" house of Chandra Lagna is afflicted by 8" house mercury from 
this Lagna. So according to the principles of Sudarsan Analysis he, 
developed Cancer in throat (governed by third house). Other yogas for 
cancer may be summarized as below: ' 


(a) When Saturn & Mars are posited (either by contact or by 


(211) 


aspect) opposite to Jupiter or Rahu, Cancer is sure to occur. 
He had Saturn and Rahu in Virgo opposed to Mars and Ketu 
, in Pisces. So he developed cancer. 


(b) 8 lord Saturn is heavily afflicted by Mars and Rahu. So he 
suffered from cancer disease. 


(c) Lord of Lagna Moon is heavily afflicted by Saturn which is 
carrying the influence of Mars and Rahu. 


(d) Afflicted Mercury produces cancer in the body (Jyotisha 
Siddanta, P 650, Oct 1991). Both the houses of Mercury 
(Virgo and Gemini) are heavily afflicted by malefics. 


(ec) + 6" lord Jupiter is in the house of Venus which is debilitated 
in Navamsa and is afflicted by Sun and Ketu. Venus is 
known to produce cancer in throat. 


Example 32 : DOB 13-12-1975, 7=35 PM, Calcutta, Cancer Lagna, 
Saturn(R) Libra Venus, Rahu; Scorpio Sun; Sagittarius Mercury; 
Pisces Jupiter, Moon; Aries Ketu; Gemini Mars(R) 


The native's 3 ra house is occupied by a 
dangerous malefic Pluto, which is 
afflicted by Mars, Saturn, Rahu (by weak Cy, 
Ven Rah 
Ura 


2nd aspect) and 6" lord Jupiter. 31 lord 
Mercury is posited in the 6" house (house 
of disease) and is afflicted by Mars. 


The 3 ra house of both Chandra Lagna and 
Surya lagna are afflicted. According to 
Harihar Mazumdar, a famous Bengali 
writer, afflicted Mercury produces Cancer in the body. Hence 
according to the principles of Sudarsana Chakra, the native developed a 
tumour in the serratus anterior region under the right arm. Lagna, Sun 
and Moon are all afflicted by the 6” lord Jupiter. He died of cancer vide 
the rule nos. 3,5 & 6 under astrological rules of cancer. His cancerous 


attack was benign type since the strong involvement of Rahu was 


@12) 


absent. He died during Venus-Rahu dasa. His Janma Lagna & Janma 
Rasi were posited in the negative signs making the body vulnerable for 
external attack. A retrograde malefic planet in 12" spins a man like a 
wheel. A malefic in Lagna always speaks evils for the native. His all 
Kendras are vacant and 10" house is occupied, by Ketu, aspected by 
deadly Saturn. Ketu in 10” aspected by Saturn did not allow any career 
for him and killed him while he was akid. 


Example 33. Recovery from Uterus cancer : DOB 28-10-1928, 
9:25 AM, Calcutta, Scorpio Lagna, Venus, Saturn, Ketu, Aries Moon 
0-43,, Jupiter (R); Taurus Rahu; Gemini Mars, Libra Sun, Mercury 
(R). 


She was born in a good family in Bengal 
and suffered heavily at the hands of oe ee 
destiny. She lost her father at the age of 10, 


body's chemical metabolisms are 
controlled by the planet Venus. Since this 
planet is decremented (180° away from its 


own house) and afflicted by Saturn and 
Ketu. Saturn Ketu in Lagna can generate pas aN 
unknown diseases in the body not 


detectable by doctors. She suffered health 

hazards throughout her life. Malefics.in Lagna spells trouble for the 
native. She suffered from gall bladder stone problems also. Rahu 
Venus dasa killed her husband in April 1992, and during the Rahu - Sun 
dasa in April 1993, she was attacked with cancer in Uterus, Gajakeshri 
Yoga, Adhi Yoga cured her through proper medical treatments. Her 8" 
house is occupied by Mars, 8" house of Moon are occupied by Saturn 
and Ketu, 8* house of Sun is occupied by Rahu. So according to the 
principles of Sudarshan Analysis, she developed cancer in sex organs. 
Mars is well known to produce cancer in uterus. Her Mars is. the 6" lord 
and hence initiator of all diseases. This Mars is posited in the 8m house 
from it own house, Scorpion and hence produced cancer in privities. 


(213) 


She is still alive in 2007. 


Example 34. Death for cancer : DOB 5-10-64, 3:30 PM, Calcutta. 
Aquarius Lagna, Saturn (R), Taurus Jupiter (R), Gemini Aquarius 
Lagna, Saturn (R), Taurus Jupiter (R), Gemini Rahu; Cancer Mars; 
Leo Venus; Virgo Mercury, Sun, Moon; Sagittarius Ketu 


Her Lagna is occupied by Saturn (R), and 

aspected by Mars. Malefics in Lagna spell 

trouble for the native. 6" houses of Sun, 

Moon, Lagna are afflicted. Debilitated 

planets causes some deficiency of the 

house, wherever they are located. 

Abdomen is controlled by the 6* house. | 

Cancer caught her in Sept. 2003 (Jupiter. en oN 
Venus Venus dasa) and she died on 19-5- 

2004 within six months (Jupiter Venus 

Rahu dasa) Jupiter provides recovery power. Unfortunately her Jupiter . 
is retrograde in the 4" house and is debilitated in Navamsa Jupiter 
Venus dasa is peculiar to about 90% persons on this earth. Dasa of 
benefic planet in retrograde motion produces always peculiar diseases. 
Sun, Moon in conjunction with 8* lord in 8" squared by Rahu Ketu axis 
decreased her life span. When Kendras of 6n lord are occupied by 
malefics one suffers from many litigations in life. Sun, 8n lord 
Mercury, Rahu and Ketu in the angles of 6n lord Mercury brought her 
end through a painful experience. .A certain geometrical position of 
Saturn with reference to Mars and Moon vis-avis the Ascendant or the 
6" house or 8" house can predispose one to cancer. Her Saturn and Mars 
are in 6/8 relations, Saturn and Moon also in 6/8 relationships, Lagna 
and 6n house are occupied by malefics, 6n lordis squared by Rahu ketu 
axis. All these unfortunate planetary configurations produced cancer in 
her stomach. Astrologically the digestive organs are collectively 
governed by Virgo and Scorpio. Upper intestinal tract is Virgo and 
lower tract is Scorpio. Her Virgo is occupied by 6°78” lords squared by 


(214) 


Rahu-Ketu; Scorpio is aspected by Saturn. Afflictions of 6°/7°/8" 

houses produced cancer in the digestive faculty. Sun in Taurus aspected 

by malefics produce Tumours but afflicted Sun in Virgo produces 
: ulcers in the stomach (AM, Nov 1991 P 836) 


Example 35. Successful cancer operation : DOB 13-3-1984, 
00.10 AM, Chennai 


Scorpio Mars, Ketu, Taurus  Rahu; 


Gemini Moon 24° » Libra Saturn (R), | \ 
Sagittarius Jupiter ; Aquarius Venus; = ie 


Mar Ket 
Ura 


Pisces Mercury, Sun. 


8* lord is placed in the 5* house, and is 
debilitated her Saturn in exalted but 
retrograde. A retrograde malefic like 
Saturn or Mars in 12" spins anybody like a 
wheel. An exalted planet in retrograde 
motion behaves like a debilitated planet. Saturn is the bestower of 
sufferings. She developed a tumour in the left side just under 12" rib, 
above the abdomen region in Jan 2006 (Governed by 5 house), When 
Aquarius and eleventh house are afflicted the disease will be left side. 
Her 11 * house is afflicted by Sun and Rahu. Aquarius is vitiated by 12" 
lord. 11" lord has conjoined with 8" lord. Hence the tumour generated 

in the 5" house area in the left side. A successful operation took place on 
14-5-06. Strong Jupiter in his own house saved her life. 6/8 relationship 
of Satur, Mars generated the cancer. Her operation took place during 
Saturn Moon dasa. Look Saturn is in the 12" house (hospital), Moon is 

in the 8n house (death). A planet in the 8” house of Lagna tries to tear the 
native apart when it gets the opportunity, particularly when it is alone. 
That is the reason Mars in 8" house acts as graveyard for ladies ‘Iti 
also better to have number of malefic & benefic planets in 8"/or 12" for 

a comfortable life on this planet earth. This is the discovery of the 
learned author (Advanced Predictive Astrology, Vol 1, P 37 by Dr. SS. 
Chatterjee) . She is a student of final year of biotechnology and. her 


(215) 


father is a GM of NTPC/Noida. Gaja Keshari Yoga, Mudrika 
Yoga(Vupiter-Moon, Mercury in mutual angles) Budhaditya Yoga 
saved her life. 


A large number of experts have recently written books describing the 
advantage of high fiber diet. Roughage or fiber is essential for good 
bowel movement Cancer of the colon is the 2™ largest type of Cancer 
after cancer of lungs. In the USA alone, 10,000, new cases of colon 
cancer are reported every year. It is thought that the faecal matter lying 
in the colon for long. periods also the pressure in the coldn might be the 
cause of Cancer of the colon, especially as cancer of he colon is very 
rare in rural Africa where the transit time of bowel movement is 
relatively more rapid, so it would appear that cancer of the colon might 
be avoided by keeping a high fiber diet (such as whole wheat flour, 
unpolished rice, fruits, vegetables and pulses). 


Gomedh, Pearl, white coral, Blue sapphire and Ruby have the power to 
cure cancer. Astrologers should prescribe the appropriate gems for the 
lord of Lagna and for the weakest planet, all infections in general are 
controlled by Gomedh. 


LIVER DISEASE 


The liver is a large reddish brown organ consisting of four lobes which 
are draped and to one side of the stomach just beneath the diaphragm. 
This three pound (1200-1500gm) organ operate as the chief chemical 
plant of the body . A few of its process are listed below : (a) bile 
production (b) detoxification (c) diaminations the liver, by a 
complex series of enzyme reactions, converts the part of amino acids 
into a waste called urea nitrogen (NH,-CO-NH,), which is carried by 
the blood to the kidneys for excretion. (d) erythrocyte destruction 
(e)allocation of glycogen i.e. maintains sugar level of blood (f) 
manufacture of fibrinogen and Albumin (g) Vitamin A storage. 


Excretory substances are classified as carbonaceous if they contain 
carbon dioxide, nitrogenous if they contain nitrogen-carbon materials 
or minerals if salts are involved and water.. Nitrogenous wastes are 


(216) 


particularly highly toxic and much be quickly removed, because they 
can rapidly accumulate in the blood and cause death. A number of 
organs viz liver, lungs, skin and kidney are involved in excretion in 
mammals. The lungs deal with excess carbon dioxide and water, both 
being products of respiration. Amazing , our bodies can still function 
when only “% of the liver is healthy enough to operate, unlike most other 
organs, even after severe damage, the liver can regenerate itself by 
growing new cells. Liver diseases are common but expert feel that 
many cases could be prevented by careful attention to diet and by 
hygiene. 


Jaundice/ Cirrhosis : 


When something is wrong with the liver or gall bladder, bilirubin tends 
to accumulate in the blood and the skin and whites of the eyes look 
yellow and because too little bile is reaching the intestine, the faces may 
be pale and grayish in colour. 


Physiology of bile production.: 


The lever reduces all our food into protein, carbohydrates and fats, it 
also deals with toxic substances such as drugs and caffeine which come 
to it from the stomach and intestines. In a very short time, the poisons 
and unwanted substances which pass through the liver are neutralized 
and purified blood reaches the heart. In the fact liver operates 24 hrs a 
day rescue service, cleaning the blood of poisons or rendering them 
harmless. Bile is a thick, bitter yellow or greenish fluid made in the 
liver and stored with in the gall bladder. Released from the gall bladder 
into the small intestine in response to the presence of food, it is essential 
to the digestion of fats. It is also part of body's excretoty or waste 
disposal system, because it contains the remnants of worn out blood 
cells. 


Everyday the liver produces about 500-600m1l of bile, which is alkaline 
in nature (pH 7.4)Major components of the bile include water, (95%) 
and a wide range of chemicals including bile salts, mineral salts, 
Cholesterol and bile pigments which give the bile its own characteristic 


(217) 


colour. The bile stays in the gall bladder until given the cue to play its 
part in the digestive process: As food but particularly fatty food enters 
the duodenum (the first portion of the intestine) from the stomach, the 
duodenum makes a hormone, called cholecystokinin. This hormone 
travels in the bloodstream to the gall bladder and makes it wall contract 
so that the bile is squeezed out. The bile then flows down another tube, 
the common bile duct, and though a narrow gap, the sphincter of oddi, 
which lets bile into the small intestine. Bile's mineral salts which 
include bicarbonate, then neutralize the acidity of partly digested food 
in the stomach. The bile salts, which are chemicals called sodium 
glycocholate and sodium taurocholate, break down fats so the digestive 
chemicals (enzymes) can go to work. Bile gets it colour for the presence 
of a pigment called bilirubin. One of the many jobs of the liver is to 
break down worn-out red blood cells. As this happens, the red pigment 
hemoglobin in the cells is chemically split and forms the green pigment 
biliverdin which is quickly converted to the yellow brown bilirubin. 
The greenish tinge of bile is given by the remnants of unconverted 
biliverdin. As well as pigmenting the bile,. bilirubin colour are partially 
deodorizes the faeces, and also encourage the intestine to work 
effectively. Bile pigment is also responsible in part for the yellow 
colour of the urine. In the intestine, bilirubin is attacked by bacteria 
permanently stationed there and converted to a chemical known as 
uribilinogen which is carried to the kidneys and released in the urine. 
The liver disease appears in the form of Jaundice, yellow colouration of 
skin etching , nail clubbing, weakness, indigestion. Liver disease 
occurs due to the damage of liver cells by alcohol or water born bacteria 
(know as Hepatitis). Liver diseases are very dangerous Cirrhosis of 
liver occurs by the excess consumption of alcohol. 


Protection of Liver disease: 


1. Eat small, frequent meals. Fish oils are good. Take nuts, lot of 
carbohydrates, fresh fruits, Papaya and cane sugar juices which 
are excellent. Avoid oil and ghee. Drink excess water and less 
salt. Take Sorbilin an allopathic drug 200 ml. 


(218) 


2: Avoid excess food, drinks and alcohols for avoiding cirrhosis of 
liver. Excessive eating and drinking have probably caused for 
more causalities among human being than all the bullets and 
bayonet of a civilization. Eating less never causes harm, it can 
only do good. 


Astrological background: 


When there will be a weak Lagna or badly aspected Lagna with 
affliction of Jupiter anywhere in the horoscope, the person will suffer 
from a liver disease in the form of cirrhosis, leading to generalized body 
weakness. If the 5" house is also afflicted along with Lagna, the liver 
damage will be more severe in the form of different hepatitis. If Jupiter 
and Saturn are in association or Jupiter and Saturn in mutual angles, 
there will be improper functioning of the liver throughout the life. 
When Jupiter and Saturn are in the 5* house are aspected by other 
‘ malefics, there will be severe chronic liver disease leading to hepatic 
coma and death of the person. The author has Jupiter and Saturn in the 
5* house. aspected by benevolent Venus from the 11” house. In 1995 
during Venus Saturn Jupiter dasa (he has Capricorn Lagna) he 
suffered from mild cirrohis of liver, A child having Virgo Lagna, ( 9-5- 
1986, 2=37 PM, Kolkata) with Saturn in Scorpio and Jupiter in 6m, in 
Aquarius suffered from liver infections, jaundice at 11* lord Moon's 
dasa in 1994, at the age of eight yrs. Aspect of natural benefics on 
Satur Jupiter combination will not cause severe liver diseases. Now I 
shall describe a few case of severe liver diseases. 


Example 36. Cirrhosis of liver : 
DOB 5-8-1971, 8=10AM, Delhi, Leo 
Lagna, Mercury, Scorpio Jupiter; 
Sagittarius Moon; Capricorn Mars, 


Rahn; Taurus Satum; Cancer Venus, 
Ketu, Sun. » 


This is the case of excess whisky drinking. 10 
He fell ill on 2-6-2006 and was here 


(219) 


hospitalized for 40 days starting from 16-6-06. his Jupiter is aspected 
by Saturn and Ketu. Rahu. Ketu dasa is always bad through 6"/12" axis. 


Example 37. Serious jaundice : DOB 4-4-73, 8=20PM, Calcutta. 
Libra Lagna; Sagittarius .Rahu; Capricorn Mars, Jupiter, Aquarius 
Mercury; Pisces Sun, Venus; Aries Moon, Taurus Saturn; Gemini 
Ketu 


The native is an M.Sc (Chemistry) and = err 
» €] ‘Flu Ura 

works in a private company as a chemist. i ; 

He suffered from Jaundice in 1999 during 4 5 


Sun Jupiter dasa and again in July 2006 
during Moon Jupiter dasa. Dasa of 11” 
lord brings many diseases, when the sub— 


lord is weak and afflicted. Here Jupiter is 
debilitated and is conjoined with malefic 
Mars. Moon is hemmed between malefics. 
So Moon Jupiter dasa also generated 
jaundice in the body. This example definitely proves that Liver in 
controlled by Jupiter and Jaundice surface out during antardasa or 
pratyantar dasa of weak Jupiter. 


Example 38. Abscess of liver : DOB 17-1 0-1952/8=20AM/Pathankot.. 
Libra Sun, Mercury; Scorpio Venus; Sagittarius Mars; Capricorn 
Rahu; Aries Jupiter (R); Cancer Ketu; Virgo Saturn, Moon. 


Here Jupiter is retrograde and placed in a Kendra squared by Ranu Ketu 
axis. Benefic planets in Kendra invariably 
brings many diseases in life. He served as 
a commissioned officer in Army between 
1974-79. he resigned in 1979 (Rahu- 
Mercury dasa) with a very minor issue 
with his senior officer. When a yogakaraka 
is placed in the 12™ house, such a native 
entertains destructive thinking. He 
struggled very hard in life with many 


(220) 


changeable business with two kids and wife. He developed abscess of 
liver during Jupiter Rahu dasa in Jan 2004: Dasa of two retrograde 
planets cannot be very good. Kalsarpa yoga producing Rahu (even if 
one planet is outside Rahu-Ketu axis, Kal Sarpa Yoga a yoga of 
poverty and struggle exists) ruined him completely. Dasa of 6" lord 
retrograde Jupiter in the antardasa of Rahu was about to kill him. 5* lord 
in 12” afflicted by Mars added fuel in the fire. When the kendras of the 
6n lord are occupied by malefics such a native's life becomes living 
hell. He can hardly manage his both ends meet. 


KIDNEY AND GALLSTONE 


The organs that specialize in excretion are the kidneys. The liver 
converts the amino acids through enzymes into a waste called urea 
(NH,-CO-NH,)is carried by the blood to the kidney for excretion. Red 
meat, alcohol, lentils, custard apple, chana, rajma, chiku, spinach and 
peanuts are rich in purine compounds (containing nitrogen) which rises 
the uric acid levels in the blood. Blood tolerates 0.55 ppm of uric acid in 
kids, 0.6 ppm in woman and 0.7 ppm in men. High uric acid level 
generates stones in joints, producing Gout, it increases highper tension. 
Take excess water and do lot of exercise to get rid of excess uric acid 
from the body. Breakdown product of high protein food breeds many 
diseases. Present doctors say an estimated one fourth obese children 
have high uric acid because of bad life style factors. Bile from the liver 
enters the duodenum via the common bile duct. About a one pint a day 
of this fluid is produced, some of which is stored in concentrated form 
in the gall bladder, a pear shaped organs lying under the right lobe of 
liver. Bile is an alkaline fluid rich in cholesterol. 


Gall Bladder Diseases : 


Even if the liver bile production system is working normally, things can 
go wrong in the Gall Bladder. Most notorious of gall bladder problem is 
gall stone. 75% of stones contain 50-98% cholesterol. The remaining 
25% of stones contain bilirubinate (pigment stones) which are either 
black or brown in colour. While in some cases the cause of pigment 


(221) 


stones is haemolysis infection in the biliary tree. Sun is the karaka for 

all diseases concerning bowels and Mercury rules over the diseases of 
Gall Bladder. The root causes of the diseases of gall bladder are to be 

judged from the sixth house. When Kanya Rasi (Virgo), sixth house 

(either from Lagna or Moon), lord of sixth house, Sun, Mercury are 

afflicted‘and by any way related with the disease inflicting house or 

planet, they produce diseases in Gall Bladder. Saturn is the karaka for 

all stones. When malefic Saturn afflicted them or makes some relation 

with them, it causes stone in the gall bladder. When the combinations 

for gall bladder diseases are heavily afflicted by malefics, Rahu, Saturn 
and Mars etc and ascendant be also afflicted, they give rise to cancer of 
bladder. When the lord of Lagna and Mars are posited together in 

6*/8*/1 2* houses, one may suffer from Carbuncle, rheumatism & Gall 

Bladder stones. . 


Kidney Problems: 


Each kidney weighs only a few grams but in spite of that they contain 
more than a million filter units called NEPHRONS which filter the 
blood. Blood is being continuously filtered by the kidneys and the 
waste matter from the blood is taken to the bladder in the form of urine. 
The main function of kidney is to regulate the water mineral and food 
content of the blood. The most common disease of the kidney is a stone. 
in a kidney which sometimes occurs if the body, does got take enaygh 4 
fluid. In old days a badly damaged kidney used to lead to deathZBut . er 
now most countries in the worl@havwe artificial methods-The cleaning 
of the blood through an artificial kidngy is called dialysis. Cafcium 
salts, uric acid struvite (MgNH,PO,) are the basis of virtually all kidrfey 
stones. Galcium oxalate and Calcium Phosphate stones make 75- 
80%of the same stone. Calcium Phosphate in stones are usually 
hydroxyapatite fCa,(Po,);] OH or less commonly brushite 


(CaHPO,,H, 0): : 
Astrological Aphorisms for Kidney Diseases: ‘ \ 
1; Venus is the lord of kidney. Moon and Jupiter are karakas for all 


(222) 


diseases and weak Moon is always bad for kidney. 
When 7* house, lord of seventh, Libra Rasi, Jupiter, Moon and 
Venus are afflicted.. all these give rise to diseases in kidney. 
Affliction are caused by the lord of 6/8/12, Rahu, Saturn & Mars. 
Saturn is the karaka for all stones. When Saturn afflicts Tula Rasi 
(Libra), 7* house, lord of seventh house, they give rise to 
diseases concerning kidney stones. 
If Satum is in Libra, afflicting Mercury induces very obscure 
spasms in the blood vessels of the kidney which frequently is 
confirmed after many blood chemistry examination because 
simply the conditions comes and goes. 
people bom in September October, when Sun is in Vrigo, suffer 
from afflictions of the lower abdomen or kidneys. 
When Mars and Mercury being malefics, afflict the houses and 
planets ruling kidney, they produce tumours, abscesses etc. in 
kidney. 
According to R. Santhanam (Essential of Hindu) Predictive 
Astrology), Venus in the 8” house indentical with 
Cancer/Scorpion and aspected by Mars or Rahu indicates kidney 
disorders, urinary diseases etc. Ladies, suffer from urinary 
“diseases when Venus and Mars are posited in the 7* house. 
Uranus in Libra indicates inflammation of the kidneys. 
According to Dr. Jagnnath Rao in his book Medical Astrology 
has given a number of classical combination leading to kidney 
diseases (nephritis) 
(a) Sun, Saturn and Venus in the 5* house (b) Mars in the 10* 
aspected or conjunct with Satum (c) Sun in Lagna and Mars in 
the 7* may lead to kidney problems. 


Kidney Donation : In case of acute kidney failure one can be sure of 
recovery, if one gets timely treatment. There are two options (a) one is 
to keep the patient on hemo-dialysis (b) and the other is to get a kidney 
transplant. Dialysis could prolong, life, say upto 8 yrs, with all its 


(223) 


trauma. Kidney transplant, ifit succeeds could prolong life from 5-15 
yrs or even more. The treatment is very costly and beyond the reach of 
common man. Kidney donation is not a small sacrifice. Kidney donors 
undergo a pretty major operation and some of them have collapsed on 
the operation table itself. It is very surprising to note that all the kidney 
donors (voluntary donors)have afflicted Venus, 7* house/?* lord, sign 
Libra and Moon. They do have the symptoms like a kidney patient. 


Protection of Kidney Diseases: 


1. 


Cut down the foods high in oxalate. Oxalate rich foods include 
rhubarb, beets, nuts, toffee, chocolate, tea, berries, most of the 
dark green leafy vegetables, sweet potatoes, baked beans, lentils 
and beer. Water, lemonade and fruit juice (simple lemon juice) 
help to prevent the formation of stones. 

Control blood pressures for avoiding damage of the kidneys. 
High or low blood pressures gradually destroys-kidneys. It could 
start with early throat trouble. 

Drinking enough fluid will prevent formation of sediment in the 
kidneys which may ultimately become a stone in the kidney. 
Attempts to dissolve calculi (stones) in he kidneys have not been 
successful but an extremely expensive piece of apparatus called a 
LITHOTRIPTER is available in few centers and using this 
machine many calculi can be broken up in pieces in vivo, by 
application of shock waves to the body surface. The small piece 
of stones are then passed in urine. 

Gems Therapy: gall Stones Emerald + Blue Sapphire, kidney 
Stone Dana farang, Peridot Jado (Kidney Ailments) Bladder 
Ailments Red Coral and Yellow Sapphire. Red Coral, Ruby and 
Emerald are also useful for the above diseases. 

Hydrangea, a homeopathic drug is valuable remedy for gravel 
and for preventing the return of renal calculi. It is used in mother 
tincture. 


Example 39. Case of kidney stone: DOB 15-2-1963/5=20 AM, Delhi. 


(224) 


Capricom Ascendant, Mercury, Saturn, Ketu; Aquarius Sun, Jupiter, 
Cancer Mars (R), Rahu; Libra Moon; Sagittarius Venus. 


This is the horoscope of a rich 

businessman of Delhi. He had to undergo 

surgical operations for the removal of 

kidney stone twice in December 1983 and . 
again in February 1984 during Jupiter 

Moon dasa. The astrological reasons for 

kidney stones are as follows: Venus is the 

lord of Kidney. Moon and Jupiter are the 

karaka planets for all diseases of kidney. 

When 7* house, Libra Rasi Jupiter, Moon 

and Venus are afflicted all these give rise to disease in kidney. In the 
above birth chart, we find that Moon is heavily afflicted in Libra Rasi 

by Mars and Saturn. Venus is debilitated in Navamsa and is afflicted by 
Rahu and Saturn. So he developed problems in kidney. Saturn is the 

karaka planet for all stones. When Satum afflicts Libra Rasi, 7* house 

and the lord of 7* house, it gives rise to diseases concerning kidney 

stones. In the above birth chart Saturn is afflicting 7” house and the 7* 

lord, Tula Rasi. So he developed kidney stones. We should stoop down 
our head in gratitude and great respect to those Indian sages who have 

recorded the above aphorisms simply by observing the movement of 
planets in the sky. 


Example 40. Case of a kidney stone : 
DOB 23-10-64, 3=55AM, Delhi. Birth 
Chart : Taurus Lagna, Mars, Gemini 
Venus, Sun, Mercury, Rahu, Scorpio 
Moon; Sagittarius Ketu' Aquarius 
Saturn; Aries Jupiter 


This is the birth chart of the Personnel 
Manager of a Company in Faridabad who 
married a Christian girl on 10.2.1990 


(225) 


(inter-religion marriage) and got a male baby on 16-4-1992. For 
warding offevils, one astrologer suggested him to use one Pearl. He 
developed kidney stone problems within sixth month after wearing the 
above gem during Venus Venus dasa (in October 1990). One should 
hot use the Gems of 3,6,8 lords. One get kidney diseases when 7* house, 
7* lord, Venus, Libra Rasi Moon and Jupiter are afflicted in the birth 
chart. His 7m house is heavily afflicted (affliction on 7* house offers 
poor health) by Saturn (karaka of stones) and Mars. 7* house of zodiac, 
Libra Rasi in Navamsa is afflicted by Mars, Saturn and Ketu. Venus is 
retrograde and is afflicted by Rahu Ketu axis in the Rasi Chart. For all 
these astrological he developed kidney stone. 


Example 41. Case of a kidney stone : DOB 17-9-54, 9-00 PM at 
Darbhagha Birth chart, Taurus Moon, Gemini Ketu, Cancer Jupiter, 
Virgo Mercury, Sun, Libra Venus, Saturn; Sagittarius Rahu, Mars. 


This is the birth chart of an M.Tech 
(chemical) engineer from Kanpur IIT and Neer 4 
is employed in PDIL, Noida. Married in 


1983 and received his only son in 1985. 
The doctors told him that he was suffering 
from kidney stone problems (Rahu | 


Mercury dasa). His Libra Rasi, Venus, 

: : 9 
Jupiter (afflicted by the 10* aspect of ala YR 
Saturn), 7* lord Mars (is afflicted by the 3ra 


aspect of Saturn), Moon (Moon is posited 
with Saturn in Navamsa) are all afflicted by Saturn. So quite naturally 
he developed kidney stone problems. 


Example 42. Example of Gall Bladder Stone : DOB 9-9-1936, 
3=3 OAM, Calcutta. Birth Chart : Cancer Mars, Leo Sun; Virgo 
Mercury, Venus, Scorpio Jupiter, Sagittarius Rahu, Aquarius Saturn, 
Gemini Ketu, Moon. 


The native is a clerk in a government of undertaking in Calcutta who 
was operated upon for kidney stones in 1990 while he was passing 


(226) 


through Mercury Jupiter dasa. The 
astrological reasons for the kidney stones News tea 
are as follows: - 
a. Moon is afflicted by Rahu and 
Satum in Navamsa and is afflicted 
by Ketu in the Rasi Chart. An CS 


afflicted and weak Moon is always = 
bad for kidney. The Moon is posited Rah 
in the 12* house in Rasi and | 
Navamsa. 


b —_His 7* house is hemmed between malefics and is afflicted by 
Mars. 


Jupiter is afflicted by the direct 10" aspect of Saturn. 


d.). Venus is debilitated in the birth chart and is conjoined with the 
12" lord Mercury. In Navamsa it is conjoined with Saturn. 


e _ Libra Rast is afflicted by Mars and Ketu. 
f, 7" lord Saturn is afflicted by the 8* aspect of Mars. 


So the afflicted 7* lord /7* house, Libra Rasi, Moon Jupiter and Venus 
gaye him kidney stones. ; 


Example 43. A case of Gall Stone : DOB : 8-1-1946, 7=09AM, 
Calcutta, Sagittarius Venus, Ketu, Sun, Mercury; AquariusMoon, 
GeminiSaturn, Rahu, CancerMars, Libra 
Jupiter. 


This is the birth chart of the wife of one of 
my colleagues in PDIL; Sindri, She was 
Operated upon for the removal of gall 
bladder stones in October 1980. while she 
was passing Saturn Rahu dasa. The 
astrological reasons for gall stones are as 
follows: Sun and Mercury are afflicted by 


(227) 


sixth lord Venus, Rahu Ketu axis and Saturn. 6* house from Lagna is 
afflicted by Uranus. 6* house of Chandra Lagna is occupied by Mars, 6* 
house of the zodiac is squared by Rahu Ketu axis. Sixth lord Venus is 
afflicted by Ketu and Saturn. Her 8* lord Moon is heavily afflicted by 
Rahu and 8h aspect of Mars, However this Moon is saved by the 5* 
aspect of Lagna lord Jupiter. According to the author, if Moon is weak 
and afflicted it will form stone in the kidney. Strong Moon afflicted by 
Saturn will favour stone formation in gall bladder provided >ther yogas 
for such stone formation exists in the birth chart. Readers m z v observe 
in this particular case, the Moon is posted in the 3“ house in squarius 
(Saturn's house) and Rahu is carrying the influence of Saturn on Moon. 
This Moon is posited in Pisces in Navamsa in her fourth house aspected 
by Venus. In summary it may be said that the afflicted 6" house /6" lord. 
Sun and Mercury with Saturn gave her Gall Bladder Stones. 


Example 44. Case of Gall Bladder stone : DOB 14-6-1945, 15=45 
hrs, Bengal Time, Calcutta. Libra Lagna; Sagittarius Ketu, Aries 
Mars, Venus, Taurus Sun, Mercury, Gemini Rahu, Saturn, Cancer 
Moon, Leo Jupiter. 


This is birth chart of a school teacher (MA 
English, B. ED) in Noida. She is the only Ken 4 
child of her parents. She was married in 

March 1984 and received her only sun in 

May 1986. She was hospitalized in 9* 

December 1993 for abdomen pain and the 
doctors found that she is suffering from 3 
gall bladder stones. The reasons are as View os 
follows: Her Sun and Mercury are posited 

in the 8* house (a very malefic house). 

hemmed between malefics. Again this Sun and Mercury are hemmed 
between malefics in Navamsa also, in Virgo. Rahu is aspecting both 


Sun and Mercury by its 2nd aspect and carrying the influence of Saturn 
with it. Satum and Ketu are in Mercury's star therefore they are 


(228) 


indirectly influencing Mercury. 6n house of Janma Lagna is aspected 

by Saturn and the 6m lord Jupiter is afflicted by Ketu and Saturn. 6n 

house of Surya Lagna is afflicted by Rahu which is carrying the 

influence of Saturn. Her Moon is posited in the 10" house in her own 

house. this Moon is posited in Capricorn Navamsa Lagna. Hence Moon 
is quite strong in her birth chart. However this Moon is indirectly 

influenced by Saturn, because .Moon is posited in Mercury's house. 

This strong Moon influenced by Saturn favoured stone formation in her 
Gall Bladder instead of kidney. Strong Moon did not allow stone 

formation in her kidneys although she has all the >ogas for stone 

formation for kidney stones. The afflicted 6thhouse/ 6* lord, Sun and 

Mercury with Saturn (karaka planet of stones) gave her gallbladder 

stones while she was passing Moon Mercury dasa. Her gall stones 

were removed by lapcroscopic method in July 1995. 


‘Example 45. Case of kidney stones : DOB 14-7-1951, 11-50 PM, 
Deoghar, Bihar, 24328N,86-43E. Birth chart: Aries Lagna, Gemini 
Sun, Mars; Cancer Mercury; Leo Ketu, Venus; Virgo Saturn, Scorpio 
Moon 1-32, Aquarius, Rahu; Pisces Jupiter. 


This is the birth chart of a Geo-Physicist : 
. (M.Tech) from 1SM, Dhanbad. He married 
in February 1979 and fathered two 
daughters. His father died in June 1988, M4 
6 


(Mercury Saturn) mother is alive. He is a 

totally frustrated man because he did not 

get any promotion in his life time. He 

developed kidney stone problems in 

October 1989. His Deha is Scorpio and Yah 
Jeeva =Pisces, He is born in Apasaya 

group A with balance 54 yrs. His problem started inTula dasa. Its lord in 
conjunction with a node and hence brought health hazards. In Apasavya 


diagram the dasa of benefic planets yield worst results. When the lord 
of ascendant is a malefic and is associated with another malefic it 


(229) 


indicates some congenial disability. His Lagna is not receiving any 
benefic influence and is aspected by Ketu. Ketu in Lagna generates 
mysterious diseases. When Lagna and its Lord are both afflicted, the 
disability will be more tragic. 


GOUT, ARTHRITIS & RHEUMATISM 


Gout is a disease of the joint and is a form of rheumatism. It is a 
constitutional disorder connected with excess of uric in the blood, 
manifesting itself by inflammation of joints with deposition of 
monosodium urate monohydrate and also morbid changes in various 
important organs. Gout often occurs as a large, painful swelling the big 
toe, the ankle and the knee, the small joints of the feet and hands, the 
wrist and elbow follow in decreasing order of frequency. The affected 
join is hot, red and swollen with shiny overlaying skin and dilated 
veins. Gout result because of imbalance in the body, which causes an 
excess of uric acid. It is often a hereditary disease. Eating rich food such 
as liver, kidney or sardines, which are all high purine content, tends to 
intensify the incidence of gout. The bowels, the urinary tract, the skin 
and the nostrils all must expel the waste-matter from the body. If they 
become slack and do not function properly, these substances 
accumulate in the body and produce gout. 


The word ‘arth' means joint and ‘litis' means ‘inflamed’. Arthritis affects 
the joints and they become red, warm, swollen and are painful to move. 
Rheumatology deal with a heterogeneous group of’ diseases of 
connective tissues, joints and bones. Rheumatic diseases are conditions 
in which pain and stiffness of some part of the muscular-skeletal system 
are prominent. It is convenient, if rather arbitrary, to group these 
disorders according to whether the basis for the connective tissue 
pathology is primarily inflammatory, metabolic or degenerative. 
Inflammatory diseases of connective tissue include rheumatoid 
arthritis and other types of inflammatory and ineffective arthritis, the 
spondee arthritis and the diffuse connective tissue diseases 
characterized by multi system organ pathology, systematic disturbance 


(230) 


and evidence of immune dyseregulation. Metabolic disorders include 
the crystal deposition diseases, gout and chondrocalcinosis, while the 
predominantly degenerative disorders are osteoarthrosis, spondylosis 
and a number of painful syndromes of the soft connective tissues. 
Arthritis is a very common affliction all over the world. It attacks 
people in different ways. Large number of people suffer from mild 
arthritis. The pain and discomfort in arthritis occur in various degrees of 
intensity. Osteoarthiritis is usually not serious. It occurs late in‘life and 
sometimes causes a knobby swelling at the most distant joints of the 
fingers. Rheumatoid arthritis usually starts in middle age and can cause 
you to be sick and stiff all over, in addition to having joint pains. 
Ankylosing spondylitis affects the back and the joints of the lower back 
bone. You may be suffering from it if your back is sore for a long time, 
particularly if it is stiff in a morning and you are unable to touch your 
toes. 


Astrological Yogas of Gout, Arthritis and Rheumatism : 


Ache or pain in the body is due to congestion of carbon-dioxide, water, 
air etc. in the afflicted area. Gout and rheumatism bring painful 
swelling in the joints. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume the 
imbalance of wind (vata) in the system causes gouts, arthritis and 
rheumatism etc. Aswini, Amdra, Punarvasu, Uttara Phalguni, Hasta, 
Jyestha, Moola, Satabhisa and Purva Bhadrapada stars rule over wind 
and when Lagna or Rasi falls in any of the above stars and the above 
stars are afflicted, they give rise to windy diseases as mentioned above. 
Various astrological combinations for the above diseases are as 
follows: 


1. | Gout sets in body when Saturn and Mars are posited in mutual 
trines. 

2. According to Jataka Parijata Saturn in 2“/3"/8" aspected by 
malefics produces gout and the patient may even die on account 
of this disease. the same combination, also may generate 
diabetes. 


(231) 


3 


According to Jataka Parijata, (Chapter V, Sloka 114), if the lord of 
Lagna occupies Cancer Rasi in navamsa, the native may suffer 
from gout and brain diseases: 

According to Harihar Mazumder vide his Jyotisha 
Yogasanchayan. 


a. 


If Venus and Mars are‘posited in the 12* house from the 
ascendant, on may suffer from gout and rheumatism. The 
above combination should be heavily afflicted. 

If the lord of Lagna is posited in Lagna and Saturn is 
conjoined with a malefic, one may develop gout at the age 
of59. 

If the Sun is posited in the 3° house of Karakamsa or in the 
3" house from the atmakaraka planet, one may develop 
gout. 

If the dispositor of the 3“ lord is posited in the 8* house one 
may suffer from gout, arthritis and rheumatism. 

If the weak Moon and Saturn are posited in the 12* house 
from the ascendant one may suffer from gout & 
rheumatism. 

If Saturn is posited in Lagna and Mars is posited in 5"/7" or, 
9* house, the native may suffer from rheumatism. 

When Mars Moon or Mars Saturn combination occupies 
Lagna, 7* house or 9* house from the ascendant, one may 
have gout. 


h. If Venus is posited in his friend's house and when Mars, 


Mercury or Saturn conjoins Jupiter in any house, the 
native may suffer from rheumati sm. 


i. Aspect of Satur on weak Moon may suggest Iron loss and 


ap 


windy imbalance in the human system (The TOA, Oct. 
1993, P29). 
The 6* lord in debilitation and being in the company of 
Saturn causes windy disorders. 


k. The Sun in Cancer aspected by Saturn or Satum in Cancer 


(232) 


aspected by Mars the native will be troubled by windy 


disorders.’ 

1. One may be troubled by windy disorders if Ketu joins 
Saturn. 

m. When all the airy signs one afflicted are suffers from 
arthritis. 


Treatment for Gout, Arthritis and Rheumatism : 


Aspirin or any other analgesic in high doses is usually the treatment 
prescribed. To offset the possibilities of an upset stomach, aspirin 
should be taken immediately after meals. 2. The gout and arthritis 
patient must increase his intake of water to produce more urine. 
Vegetables high in purines such as cauliflower, asparagus, green peas, 
spinach and mushrooms should be avoided. 3. He should drink 
lukewarm water in the moming and evening with juice of lime. 4. 
Resting an inflamed joint can speed up healing. Heat may also help (I 
got very good results using infra red lamp). The joint should be moved 
periodically to prevent stiffness which may trouble later on. Infra red 
lamp heat should be applied for about 10 minutes immediately on the 
onset of the above disease. Delay may cause enough harm to the native. 
5. Uric acids are formed by eating such as liver, kidney, sardines and 
anchovies which are all high in purine content, tend to bring arthritis. 
So one should avoid these foods. Avoid alcohol. 6. Those who suffer 
from a constant pain should apply a paste of raw potatoes ground fine 
on the affected joints. Oily fishes are helpful. 7. Gem Therapy : Red 
coral is good for Arthritis, Ruby and Blue sapphire can give relief to 
rheumatic patients. Libradorit can control spondylitis. Pearl is 
recommended for gout. 


Aspirin should not be given to children aged under 12 because of the 
risk of Reye's syndrome (It is a rare acute encephalopathy in children 
with fatty degeration of the liver developing after an infections illness 
such as influenza or chickenpox which has often been treated by 
aspirin). Chloroquine, hydroxy-chloroquine, gold salts and 


(233) 


penicillamine can be used with the same precautions as in adults. 
Examples of Rheumatism : 


Example 46. Severe set backs in life for Rheumatism : 
DOB 13-6-1951, 1=13 AM, Delhi Birth chart : Pisces Lagna, Jupiter, 
Taurus Sun, Mars, Mercury; Cancer Venus, Leo Moon, Ketu; Virgo 


Satum, Aquarius Rahu. 
This is the birth chart of a physically 
handicapped lady whose health has been Nee a4 
completely ruined by the attack of sever 10 
type of rheumatism and gout. Her 
ps 
Sat Nep 
8 

(waist; knees and almost all joints). She VEN aN 
can hardly walk and can manage her 
routine duties. She is unmarried and staying with her widowed mother. 
She has two elder sister. She donated a kidney in 1976 (Rahu Rahu 


sufferings started in 1975. (Rahu Rahu 
dasa)First the right elbow was affected, . 

dasa) for saving the life of her eldest brother-in-law. We will examine 
her birth chart. 


then slowly she was attacked by this 
dangerous disease in other parts also 


If malefics occupy 6* house and Rahu and Saturn are joined together or * 


establish any relationship, the native will suffer from physical ailments. 
In her birth chart Ketu in the 6* house is powerfully aspected by Mars. 
Rahu is posited in the house of Satur. Saturn is afflicting Lagna, Lagna 
lord Jupiter, Sun and 9* lord Mars. She has very weak Moon, Moon in 
square to Sun produces many diseases. and is severely afflicted by 
Ketu. Her 7* house is afflicted by the dangerous malefic 12* lord 
Saturn, Jupiter, Sun, Moon, Lagna, Lord of Lagna all are afflicted in 
ber birth chart. Moon is spoiled by Satum in both Rasi and navamsa. 
Moon is the giver of life in females and Sun is the giver of life in males. 
Saturzin7* is never welcome (Astrology Nectar by Dr.S.S. Chaterjee 
F $1} it will force the native to become sickly. Saturn and Mars are 


(234) 


r 


posited in mutual trines. So she has developed gout, quite in agreement 
with the rule no.t under astrological background of gout, arthritis and 
rheumatism. 3:4, 7* and 11" houses of zodiac are afflicted by wind 
planets Sun and Saturn. So quite naturally she developed windy 
imbalance in the body. Rahu in the 6°/8"/12" house unexpected by 
benefics will be giving troubles in its dasa. Rajive Gandhi had Rahu in 
his 12 house and was not aspected by any planet. Hence it turned to be 
akiller planet. Rahu/Ketu aspected by trine/quadrant lords behaves as a 
yogakaraka. Everything evaporates in air when 9* house/9* lord are 
weak. Her 9* lord is detrimented and is a combust planet. Further it is 
afflicted by Saturn. Saturn + Mars are concentrating their forces on the 
9* house. Her 9* house is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. Moon is the seed 
of all planets. Weak Moon spoiled her life. Dasa sequences are very 
very bad for her. As per KCD she was born in Apasavya group B, 1” 
quarter with a balance Tula 9y 8m 22d. Pisces-Jeeva, Cancer-Deha, 
Libra, Virgo, Leo dasa passed away smoothly. As soon as Cancer dasa 
started on 5-3-1975, her problems surfaced out. Moon is very weak, 
therefore Cancer dasa yielded futile results for her. Deha sign is 
occupied by 8* Jord. When Deha/Jeeva signs are occupied by 6n / 8* 
lord, Goddess Laxmi never visits such a native i.e. they never become 
prosperous. 


Example 47 . Severe set backs in life for Rheumatism 

DOB 11-8-1946, 9=03 PM, Dakha. Birth Chart : Pisces Lagna, Taurus 
Raho; Cancer Sun, Mercury (R), Rahu, 
Virgo Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Scorpio Ketu 


pélvic region. The intensity of pains 


(235) 


became severe, and the affected areas got swollen when she was 28 yrs 
old. Her face, legs, hand were badly swollen, her voice got chocked and 
in fact her whole body was puffed. According to medical experts she 
was a attacked with a rheumatic typhoid disease which precipitated the 
severe rheumatic attack, (at the age of 30) She was bed-ridden for about 
14 yrs. She got some relief only in. 1990 (on the onset of Jupiter Venus 
dasa). Constant medical treatment cured her. I visited her in June 1992 
and found quite normal but her legs were still swollen. 


Astrological reason ofher sufferings: 


1. 


When Lagna, Sun, Moon Jupiter and 6* house are well fortified 
by situation, conjunction and aspect of benefics good health will 
be monitored. Her Sun is conjoined with 12* lord Saturn and is 
aspected by Ketu. Moon is posited in Capricorn (a planet posited 
180° away from its own sign is considered as a debilitated planet) 
in the 11” house (a baneful house) and is aspected by 6* lord Sun, 
12* lord Saturn and malefic Rahu. It is posited in 6* lord Sun's 
constellations. Jupiter (Lagna lord) is debilitated in Virgo and is 
afflicted by the 8* lord debilitated Venus, Saturn, Mars and Rahu. 
6* house is squared by Rahu Ketu axis and the 6* house is 
hemmed between malefics. Lagna is aspected by 8* lord Venus, , 
malefic Mars and Ketu and also the lord of Lagna Jupiter. Contact 
of Ketu in Lagna generates disease in the body not detectable by 
doctors, so for the afflicted Sun, Moon, Jupiter, lagna/lagan lord 
and 6* house she is not enjoying good health. 


She has four detrimented/debilitated planets (Moon, Jupiter, 
Venus and Saturn) planets which caused intense sufferings in 
life. 


Her 4* lord Mercury is retrograde and is heavily afflicted by 
Saturn, Pluto 6" lord Sun and Ketu Retrograde and afflicted 4* 
lord denied her all types of happiness in life. 


Her 7* house is heavily afflicted Generally a well placed 7* 


(236) 


house assures a strong health. Mars or Saturn in 7* house is an 
indication of sins of the pastlife, 


5. She is suffering from severe windy disorders for the rules nos 11 - 
13 under yogas for gout, arthritis and rheumatism Sun 6* lord in 
presence of Saturn in Cancer Rasi precipated the severe type of 
rheumatic attack. . 


All the airy houses from the ascendant are afflicted ( 3/7/11"). 


She has a faulty blood circulation system .moon the karaka 
planet of blood is severely afflicted 4* house of Lagna is hemmed 
between Rahu and Saturn 8* house is hemmed between Mars 
and Ketu . 12" house is squared by Rahu Ketu axis. 6* house is 
hemmed between Saturn and Mars. . 


So her massive sufferings for the rheumatic problems are not 
surprising. She suffered immensely in Rahu and Jupiter dasas, both 
these planets are posited in the 2™ lord Mars constellation. Sufferings 
are generally caused when the trinal places or trines from the Lagna 
lord are occupied by the lords of 8* and 12* or Rahw/ Ketu or if the 46" 
or 8* house from the dasa lord, there are malefics, debilitated or 
combust planets located. Rahu is posited in the 9* house from lagna 
lord. 5* house of Rahu is occupied by debilitated Venus and Jupiter and 
mars aspected by Saturn. 6* house of Rahu is hemmed between 
malefics. 4* house of Jupiter is aspected by Mars. And the 8* house of 
lagna lord is aspected by Saturn and Mars. ; 
Therefore both Rahu and Jupiter brought 

her unimaginable amount of physical 

sufferings. 


Example 48. Case of a osteoarthritis : 
DOB 8-6-1941 10=00PM, IST, Dakha. 


Birth Chart : Capricorn Lagna; Aquarius 6 aes 
* Lagna, Mars; Pisces Ketu; Aries Saturn, os 


Taurus Jupiter, Sun; Gemini Mercury, 


(237) 


Venus; Virgo Rahu; Scorpio Moon 


This is the birth chart of one of my colleagues with whom I started my 
career in FCI, Sindri. He is a doctorate in organic chemistry, married in 
197] and is the proud father of a daughter and a son, both of them have 
settled in USA. His sufferings started in 1980 when he was passing 
through Venus Rahu dasa which aggravated the situation on 15-8-1981 
when he suddenly fainted on the road and experienced severe joint 
pains throughout his body. Doctors told him that he was suffering from 
Osteoarthritis. He suffered immensely from this dangerous disease ¢ 
between 1981-1983 (entire Venus Jupiter dasa) inspite of thorough 
between check up by the experts in Calcutta. He took training in Yoga 
Therapy in Srirampur, near Calcutta and made himself virtually free 
from this disease, although he never regained his original health. He 
had a very fair complexion, but he lost all his grace and charismatic 
outlook for this dangerous disease (Venus controls body luster which is 
afflicted by 6* lord Mercury and by the 3u aspect of Satum in the 6* 

house the house of diseases). We will now examine his birth chart: 


All the airy signs of the zodiac (Gemini, Libra and Aquarius are 
afflicted Saturn, a windy planet is afflicting Gemini and Libra and Mars . 
is posited in a windy constellation in Aquarius). If Venus is posited in a < 
friend's house, Jupiter conjoins within a malefic, the native may suffer 
from rheumatism. In this case Venus is posited in a friend's house in a 
windy star and is aspected by a windy planet Satum, Venus is posited in 
an airy sign of the zodiac. Jupiter is heavily afflicted by 8m lord Sun and 
aspected by Mars and Rahu. Therefore he developed rheumatism and 
arthritis. Venus in the 8* house aspected by malefics produces gout 
(Purkayastha, Medical Astrology, P 186). His Venus is posited in the 6* 
house from Janma Lagna and in the 8" house from the Chadnra Lagna 
afflicted by Saturn. The dispositors of Sun, Moon and Lagna lord are 
posited in bad houses. So all these unfortunate configurations triggered 
off the malady. Saturn, the lord of ascendant and the 2n house has 
exchanged place with 4/1] lord Mars. 7” house is not aspectd by any 
malefic and the 7" lord Moon is aspected by Jupiter. So strong 4 Jord, 


(238) 


unafflicted well placed Jupiter in a trine house provided him speedy 
recovery. According to Vimsottari system he suffered from this disease 
when he was passing Venus Rahu and Venus Jupiter dasas: In transit 
Saturn and Jupiter were in close conjunction (above 5°14°). In August 
1981. when Venus entered Virgo on 15" August 1981, the disease 
aggravated. So we find a close relationship between Venus, Jupiter and 
Satum for the severe attack of the above disease. Venus dasa proved 
very fatal for him because 4* house of Venus is occupied by Rahu 
aspected by deadly Mars, 6* house of Venus is occupied by debilitated 
Moon aspected by Ketu, 8* house of Venus is aspected by Saturn and 
Rahu. Therefore the disease started when he was passing Venus Rahu 
dasa. In 2007, he is still alive, but takes advice from Mumbai regularly. 
Vitamin C and fish prodide relief to Osteoarthiritis. He takes fish 
regularly. 2nd lord has generated neechvanga Raja Yoga in the 4* house. 
Strong 2™ lord (10" form 5*) helped his both the children to settle very 
well in life. 


ASTHMA AND ITS CURE 


Asthma is actually a form of allergy against dusts. Allergy is the 
phenomenon in which the antibodies produced by certain substances 
combine with antigens and force the mast cells to produce cytoplasmic 
granules such as histamines; seratonin which induce symptoms like 
itching, swelling, rashes, redness etc in the body. It is a disorder of the 
respiratory system Charaterised by severe paroxysms of difficult 
breathing. Respiration becomes difficult and breath come with a 
wheezing and some sometimese with whistling sound. It can be 
controlled (but it can never be cured). It is a global problem affecting all 
age groups young, children, adolescents adults and old persons. It is 
twice as frequent in males than in females. The disease is not 
transmitted from one person to another. Actually asthma is caused by 
excess of phlegm and the inability to the body to expel it. If the patient 
gives up foods which tends to increase the phlegm i.e. rice, flour-passed 
through sieve, sugar, lentils, milk and curds he can find relief. He 


(239) 


should put on foods which discourage phlegm, such as green 
vegetables, fruits (orange, tomato, papaya, guava, mango, apple) and 
carrots. An asthma patient should regularly fast once a week. Salt free 
diet would be the best (or should take minimum salt). Vitamin C helps 
promote a healthy immune system and may be helpful in reducing 
wheezing in children with asthma. 


Symptoms of Asthma: 


The attack is often quite sudden commencing in the early morning 
between 2-4 A.M. He wakes up with a sense of dysponea, walks out of 
bed, open the window to let more air. The breathing is soon so difficult 
that he has to call in the aid of all the accessory muscles of respiration; 
he grasps with his hands the sides of this bed, the arms of a chair to give 
a firm for the muscles which pass from the upper extremities to the 
chest. Attack or recurrent attack of wheezing (whistling in the chest 
during breathing). Having cough, wheezing or chest tightness after 
exposure to allergens or pollutants. Asthma is a kind of heart disease. 
The bronchial tubes are narrowed by a spasmodic contraction and they 
secrete an excess of mucus, which makes breathing difficult. The 
common irritants which could trigger off an asthmas attack included 
the following : A. Cigarette smoke. B. Wood smoke. C. Chemical 
fumes. D. Cleaning agents such as phenyl E. Perfumes and hair spray., 
F. Atmospheric pollution usually thick dusts floating/suspended in air. 
G. House hold dusts mixed with fur of animals like dog, cat, horses and 
so on. People who suffer from various allergies (such as eczema) ¢ 
including food related allergies at a very young age face.a greater risk of 
developing asthma. There is increasing evidence to suggest that asthma 
does tend to run in families. This makes children of asthmatic 
particularly vulnerable. However the fact is that children with asthma 
can lead perfectly normal lives and should be encouraged to go to 
school, play and have other activities just like other children. Asthma 
normally improves as children grow up and in some cases, it disappears 
completely on entering adolescence. Some simple environmental 
changes and precautions along with appropriate medication can help in 


(240) 


better management of asthma. Swimming is an excellent sport for the 
asthmatic patients. This is a form of exercise they tolerate well. Take 
deep breath daily which will help to expel the accumulated carbon- 
dioxide in lungs. In deep breath we can exchange 500 CC air. One 
should avoid the cough syrups and expectorants, pain killer drugs, birth 
control pills, tranquilizer and water in between meals. Keep doors and 
window closed during February, March and September when the 
pollen count and ill effect of moulds are the highest. Keep away from 
sources of mould (such as wet leaves or garden debris). Remove the 
animal from the house. Avoid using kerosene heaters, smokes, thick 
dusts etc. asthma provides relief by taking hot milk, hot coffee or hot 
tea. 


Astrological concept of asthma: 


Gemini, Libra and Aquarius are airy signs. If one of these signs become 
Lagna and is afflicted, one is likely to sufferfrom Asthma. Mercury 310 
lord of Zodiac) is the karaka planet for Asthma. Its afflictionis a must 
for this dangerous disease. moon produces cough. Weak and afflicted 
or badly placed Moon produces disease of cough. Repiratory Canal 3ra 
house and its lord, Breathing lord Mercury and Rahu, Lingering of 
disease Saturn, Cough Moon and Jupiter, Airy planets Rahu and 
Saturn. Afflicted 3“ house/3™ lord/Mercury/or Rahu produce breathing 
trouble: When 3 house 31 lord, Gemini, Libra and Aquarius signs, 
Mercury, Rahu and Moon be afflicted, by malefics in a way of 
conjunction, aspect etc, be situated in evil houses and be in some way 
related with disease inflicting house or planet, they give rise to the 
disease of Asthma. 


Aphoroisms of Asthma: 


I}. Saturn, Rahu or Ketu in 8* house aspected by or conjoined with a « 
malefic or hemmed between malefics. 

2. — If lagna be aspected by Mars and Saturn. Mars and Saturn in 
Lagna denotes to spasmodic asthma. The attacks are clearly 
attributable to some obstruction of the minute bronchial tubes 


(241) 


and the prevailing view is that this obstruction is due to 


> .* spasmodic contraction of the bronchial muscular fiber, hence the 


name "Spasmodic Asthma", to distinguish it from other kind of 
dyspnoea, especially chronic bronchitis and emphysema, 
popularly known as Asthma. . 

If lord of Ascendant and Satum combine in 6"/8"/12" the native 
become a chronic patient of Asthma. 

5* lord in 2m or 8*. 5. The Sun occupying Lagna be aspected by 
Mars. 6. When the lords of 4" and 6* exchange their ho Isesandif 
one of these signs so exchanged be a watery sign, «.thma is 
caused. 

When the Ascendant is a watery sign and when the lord of 
ascendant occupies a malefic house. 

The Mon is found between Saturn and Mars with Sun placed in 
Capricorn. 

Moon and Mercury together in any sign aspected by malefics. 
Rahu and Moon in the 2m house. 

Satur in Lagna, especially if watery signs such as Cancer, 
Scorpio or Pises are involved can show problems related to 
breathing such as wheezing, constant cold and sneezing and also 
asthma. 


Remedial Measures : 


Eat at least 5-10 servings of fruits and vegetables and include cirtrus 
fruits. Vitamin C promote a healthy immune system. Losing weight can 
improve as them a symptoms. Cough and cold are the vital symptoms 
of Asthma. So by using hot gems Ruby (8Rati) or Red Coral (10 Rati) or 
Cat's eye (3-4Rati) are can be cured from asthma. Deficiency of red 
colour in our body causes fever, anemia, physical debility, weakness, 
piles fistula, inflammations etc. The Gems Red Coral, Ruby or Cat's 
eye have perennial source of red colour. It is now well known that any 
of these three stones can cure the above diseases merely by being worn 
-on the 3 finger of either hand. According to the author, emerald (6.0 


(242) 


rati) should cure asthma. As inhalers (salbutamol, terbutaline). They 

can be inhaled using nebulizer (also know as atomizer) inhaled 

medicines should be the first choice. They begin to work within 5 

minutes and have fewer side effects. These drugs cannot prevent the 

swelling that causes prolonged symptoms. The liquid or tablet begins 

to work within 30 minutes and its action lasts for 4-6 hrs. they include 

wysolone, prednisolone and betnelan and injections (efcorlin and 

betamethasone). These drug's are called corticosteroids and they 

prevent and reduce swelling inside the airway. The patient can take one 
tablet ciplox 500mg and one capsule of marax along with 2 tablets of 

celestamine twice daily for 15 days. For medicines one should consult a 
well qualified physician. 


Which Gem should be prescribed as a remedial measure?: 


Phaladeepika, a classical Sanskrit Text lays a great emphasis on forth 
house and its lord for happiness and physical health. The author says 
that if the 4* lord is strong and if the ascendant lord is stronger than the 
6* lord, the native enjoys perfect health. The reason is clear, sixth 
represents illness and disease, just as it represents enemies, debts and al 
the rest of it. So Lagnadhipati, denoting the physique of a person, 
should be stronger than the planet whose strength denote disease (6* 
lord).and in addition, the 4* lord (Sukhadhipati) should be strong for 
perfect physical health to be enjoyed by native. The point is 4* house 
denotes happiness to be enjoyed, the first and foremost requisite, is 
good physical health. One cannot enjoy good food and drinks or the 
best company of friends and relatives or one's own wife unless one has 
the sound health. Health is wealth. 


6"/8"/12" lords are the trika lords and their strength and association 
with Lagnesh/5"/9” lords-means hardships inlife, including sufferings 
from many common diseases. One should not prescribe Gems for these 
trika lords. Gems for the Lagnesh, 4"/7"/10" lords, Moon, trine lords, 
Sun arid dispositor for Moon should be prescribed for avoiding 
common diseases. Shortly Sun and Moori should help any native 


(243) 


irrespective of Lagna to fight diseases. One should also see that Jupiter 
is strong in any horoscope, because Jupiter gives recovery power. 
therefore yellow Pokhraj should be prescribed if it is found weak in rasi 
and navamsa. 


Colour Therapy: 


God has created only seven primary colours (VIBGYOR violet, 
indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange and red). Other colours are actually 
the mixture of these primary colours. 


The colours for the 6* and 8" lord should be avoided in food and clothes 
for avoiding common diseases. The native should be asked to consume 
maximum colours represented by Lagnesh and the 4* lord. I have found 
that this is a way affective measure for avoiding diseases. Harmful 
colours for various Lagnasare as below: 


Lagna Best colour Harmful colours 

Aries Red, Yellow ** Green 

Taurus Green, Violet Yellow 

Gemini Yellow, Green Red,’ deep Blue, violet 
and black. 

Cancer Red Violet, deep Blue, black ; 

Leo ' Red Violet, deep Blue, black 

Virgo Green, Yellow Red, Black 

Libra Green, Red, Violet Yellow 

Scorpion Red, Yellow Green 

Sagittarius Yellow, Red, Green White (pl. change the 
colour with borunvita, 
Vegetables etc.) 

Capricorn Violet, green Red, White Yellow 

Aquarius Violet, White Green 

Pisces Yellow, Red White, Violet 


Epileptic fits and mental retardation are the diseases for which advance 
diagnostic techniques or preventive methods are not available. The 


(244) 


manifestations of these diseases can be overcome by avoiding the 
harmful colours in foods and clothes. 


Gemini Lagna people are very much accident prone persons. By 
avoiding Red food, they can overcome many problems including 
accidental hazards in life. I suggest the Pisces and Sagittarius people to 
use a Swastika mark in Yellow colour in their white clothes. 


Certain yoga techniques are very useful in eliminating common 
diseases. If anybody can control his mind with the preliminary 
techniques of Yama. Niyama and Pranayama under the guidance ofa 
Guru, he is sure to overcome many common diseases like arthritis, 
asthma, allergy, hypertension, blood vessel spasma, diabetes, common 
colds, stomach disorders, gout, mental problems (lunacy) heart 
ailments and many other troubles. 


The Yogic process of treatment comprises of three steps: 
I. Proper diet. Foods can heel and foods can produce diseases. 
Il. Proper Yoga practice and 


If. Proper knowledge of things which concern the life of an 
individual 


By following the above steps almost all diseases are cured. 
Case studies of Asthma: 
Example 49. Childhood attack of Asthma : DOB 15-9-71, 17=15, 


Bhatinda, Aquarius Lagna, Taurus : can 
al ar 
Saturn, cancer Ketu, Moon, Leo Sun, ey. 
» “ xe 
{Gen 
oo, 
Ura Ven 
Plu 


Mercury, Virgo Venus, Scorpio * Jupiter, 
Capricorn Mars, Rahu 


This is the birth chart of an unmarried lady 
teacher who met me on 19-7-98 for 
recovery from asthma and body 
weakness. She never had a sound health 
and suffered from Asthma _ since 


(245) 


childhood. All medical treatments yielded futile results. I gave her 10 
Rati Red coral and 3.0 Rati good quality of cat's eye (transparent). She 
was not allowed to take green food or use green clothes. To the surprise 
of her aged and worried parents she recovered completely in Dec 1998. 
Now she is maintaining an excellent health and her marriage is visible 
on the horizon. Her 4* lord (sukhadhipati) is debilitated in the 8* house, 
a baneful house. Highly afflicted Moon and Sun added fuel to the fire. 
The moon free from malefic affliction or aspects, strong would be a 
great asset in any horoscope conducting to physical health, mental 
power and brilliance and also lot of affluence because Moon is also 
Sampathkaraka or giver of wealth. Her Moon is highly afflicted by 
Saturn. Mars and Ketu: But aspect of Jupiter on Moon at least did not 
put her in bed. In spite of poor health she received sound education, MA 
(Hist) MEd. We are aware of the famous astrological aphorism, if the 
dispositor of the lord of Lagna is posited in the trika houses (6/8/12), the 
native has a weak constitution. Indeed her despositor of Lagnesh is 
debilitated in the 8* house, providing her an ailing physique since 
childhood. Her 3rd house is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis, 31 house is 
afflicted by Mars who is carrying the deadly influence of Rahu with 
him. Her afflicted Moon, Mercury, Rahu 3a lord and 31 house 
generated asthma in the body. When number of malefics afflicted the 6* 
house one has a poor health. Her 6* house is afflicted by Ketu, Mars 
and Saturn. When the Moon is in association with a malefic is posited in 
the 6* house, it is an indication of poor health. So we are not surprised to 
observe her suffering for the last 27 yrs. 


Example 50. Childhood attack of 
Asthma : DOB 10-11-57, 10=35 PM 
Gorakhpur. Cancer Lagna, Virgo Jupiter, 
Libra Sun, Mars, Rahu Scorpio Satu, 
Mercury; Sagittarius Venus, Aries Ketu, 
Gemini Moon. 


The above birth chart belongs to a lady 


(246) 


whom | saw as a kid. She is B.E. (Electrical) from B.E. college, 
Calcutta and settled permanently in U.K. after her marriage with a 
prosperous Bengali man from UK. She suffered from Asthma 
immensely during Mars and Rahu Mahadasas upto Sep, 1978. 
Commencement of Jupiter Mahadasa, who is in Yogakaraka Mar's 
star, cured her completely. Asthma normally improves as children grow 
up, and in some cases, it disappears completely on entering 
adolescence. There is increasing evidence to indicate that some 
children will regain their asthma later in life. However medically, it is 
difficult to predict which particular child will develop asthma in adult 
life. I firmly believe her Mudrika Yoga (Moon-Jupiter-Venus in mutual 
angle) is responsible for her meteoric rise in life. Now she is an 
extremely wealthy lady free from diseases. Whenever there is 
Oajakeshari Yoga, Jupiter Mahadasa bestows immense prosperity in 
life, provided Moon dasa does not come between 21-65 yrs if age 
Emperor Auranzgeb's Jupiter dasa also yielded excellent results. Rahu 
is afflicted by Sun and Mars. Mercury is afflicted by Satum, 3 house of 
Janma Lagna is afflicted by 6* lord Jupiter, Significator of asthma, 
Moon is aspecteed by Badhaka Venus from Sagittarius. Her 31 house of 
Chandra Lagna is afflicted by Pluto who is aspected by Saturn and 
Ketu. Her Moon is in Yogakaraka Mars's star and not afflicted by any 
severe malefic planet. Her Satum dasa is yielding benefic results for her 
because it has generated Vipareeth Raj Yoga with Mercury (union of 
12* and 8* lord). Mercury Mahadasa should also produce good results 
for her for the obvious reasons. 
Astrologically we are sure she will not 
regain asthma in her old age. 


Example 51. Severe Asthma attack in 
boyhood days. : DOB. 15-12-1981/ 
9-20AM/Roorkee 


Birth chart: Capricom Lagna, Venus, 
Gemini Rahu; Virgo Saturn, Mars; Libra 


(247) 


Jupiter, Scorpio Moon; Sagittarius Mercury, Sun, Ketu. 


This is the horoscope of Master Kharbanda son of a retired Lt. Col. He 
inherited this disease from his mother, however his elder sister is free 
from this disease. His 3ra lord Jupiter is placed in an inimical house of 
Rahu's star, Moon is debilitated and aspected by Saturn carrying he 
deadly influence of Mars, Mercury is spoiled by the direct 4* aspect of 
Mars and who is in conjunction with poisonous Ketu. Whenever the 
dispositor of Lagnesh is posited in 6/8/12 houses the native has a poor 
health. In fact his dispositor of Lagnesh is posited in 6/8/12houses the 
native has a poor health. In fact his dispositor lagnesh is placed in the 
12” with Sun and Ketu. His Rahu is aspected by the deadly 10” aspect of 
Saturn. So we are not surprised to observe his poor health and asthma 
attack. Ketu Mahadasa brought the nightmare in his life from March, 
1987. Since Ketu is exalted his sufferings were under check. However 
the onset of Venus Mahadasa made his life more miserable. He suffered 
severely “from bitter asthma attack during 1994-97 while he was in 
Lucknow. His father Lt. Col Kharbanda met me on 17.3.98 and I 
prescribed 12 rati Red coral for Master Kharbanda. He became well, 
passed XII classes from Noida Public School. He has also been 
advised not to consume much yellow food. Red is the best colour for 
him, he took tomatoes, apples and other red foods regularly. He passed. 
MCA from Kolkata in July 2006 and is free from Asthma. 


Example 52. Life long suffering from Asthma: DOB 15-2-1934, 
13=15hrs. Dakha, Bangladesh. Birth : 

chart: Gemini- lagna; Cancer Ketu; Libra 
Jupiter; Capricorn Satum, Venus, Rahu;. 
Aquarius Mercury, Sun, Moon, Mars. 


This is the horoscope of Mr. Chakarborty 
M.Sc (Physics), my senior colleague in 
FCI, Sindri who inspired me to become an 
astrologer. He taught me fundamentals of 
astrology in early eighties. He has a short 


(248) 


stature with a dazzling fair complexion. The 11” house rules the left 
hand, 11"lord also signifies elder co-born. Sixth lord in the company of 
11lord brought permanent injury to his left arm while he was less then 
three months old, and he maintained much distance from his elder 
brother. His elder brother did not allow him to occupy the house left 
behind by his father. His younger brother was assassinated in 1970, 
during Naxalbari movement. Presence of 6h lord with 3" lord Sun, 
brought the tragedy. He suffered from asthma, breathing trouble right 
from birth and never recovered form this diséase. the dispositor of 
Lagnesh in 8* house compelled him to suffer physically throughout his 
life. Afflicted Mercury, Rahu, Moon, 3: house, 3rd lord and Lagna is an 
airy sing made him prone to this dreadful disease throughout his life. 
When I" house makes any relationship with 6* house or the 6* lord, one 
may get serious illness. His Langesh Mercury and 6* lord Mars have 
conjoined together. Jupiter, Rahu, Saturn and Sun are posited in 6" lord 
Mars's constellations. So his life was full of litigations. 1. remember one’ 
interesting story about him. Somewhere in 1968 thieves ransack his 
house while he was in Calcutta in Pujaholidays. After his return to 
Sindri, he reported the matter to Police. Police started harassing him 
from 1968 and asked him to appear at Dhanbad Court for the 
identification of his stolen goods. Once he went to the court where he 
was allowed to stand outside at 45°C temp. His wife fainted, and he had 
to bribe the police for brining the matter out of court. He has three 
prosperous children, one son followed by two daughters. (4m from 5* 
has foUr planets) First two children are now USA citizens, who 
obtained Ph.D degrees from USA and youngest daughter is an MBA 
from Poona. He has settled in Dumdum area of Kolkata and his hale and 
hearty in 2007. 


PARALYSIS AND ITS CURE 


It is one of the most dreaded diseases that some of the unfortunate 
victims have to withstand its dangerous affects. The affected limbs is 
deprived of its movements and some sensations (such as heat, touch 


(249) 


etc.). In medical parlance, paralysis is actually a neurological disorder 
or cerebral ischaemia. It may 'be caused by atherosclerosis, embolism, 
arthritis, arteriospasam or hypertension, alone or in combination and 
result in infraction manifest clinically as a stroke, transient ischaemic 
attacks or dementia. When some rupture of the brain cells or the 
collapse of the brain cells occur in the left side of the brain, paralysis is 
struck in the right side and vice versa. Sudden accidental shocks may 
also cause rupture of the brain cells. The eyes, face, legs, hands, tongue 
((speech) etc. can be struck by paralysis and the relevant function could 
remain destroyed temporarily or for ever. Sometimes paralysis could 
be to one side of the body or yet in some unfortunate circumstances the 
whole body may be paralysed. Paralysis of the lower or upper part of 
the body is also well known. When a certain part of the body is deprived 
of regular blood supply it develops a type of paralysis called 
Hemaplexia. 


Cerebral blood diseases are of three types : 


Blood clotting (thrombosis) which leads to paralysis very slowly. 
Blood has a property of clotting due to thrombus is ruled by Saturn. If 
Saturn is in conjunction with Jupiter, there are chances of embolism. 
Blood stream obstruction due to sudden embroil like ear infection and 
natural calamity and Haemorrhage. 


The out come of haemorrhage will be sudden death, coma or paralysis. 
If paralysis develops very rapidly it may initially be of flaccid type, but 
spasticity and hyperre flexia are soon manifest and usually are detected 
from the onset. There may be hemianopia and heminaesthesia on the 
side of hemiplegia. If the infarct lies in the dominant hemisphere 
dysphasia may supervene. This familiar stroke pattern reflects the 
frequency of infarcts in the brairi territory supplied by the middle 
cerebral artery: but it should not be assumed that the causal lesion lies 
within the artery. In more than half of the cases presenting this picture 
the primary lesion lies in the internal carotid artery or in more proximal 
vessels. Frequently transient ischaemic attacks are due to emboli which 
arise from atheromatous plaques, are carried distally, lodge in and 


(250) 


block small arteries and them break and disperse. In other cases flow 
through a stenotic artery may be reduced because of hypertension and 
may cause transient cerebral ischaemia. Occasionally, neck rotation 
leads to pressure on, and reduced flow through, a vertebral artery 
causing ischaemia in the brain stem; Some transient strokes may be due 
to small intracerebral haemorrhages. 


Astrology of Paralysis : 


Paralysis is an acute case of windy disorder in the human body and has 
been known from centuries. Karaka planet for this disease is Mercury. 
If he is afflicted heavily and be connected with the 6* house, 6* lord and 
the 9* house; and if the 9* house is also afflicted along with its lord, this 
disease is sure to occur. Paralysis is actually obstruction of blood 
circulation in the affected area. Arterial blood 1s governed by Jupiter. 
The Sun provides oxygen to the blood and the Moon causes circulation 
of blood. Saturn stands responsible for narrowing down the arteries or 
obstructing down the arteries or obstructing the blood circulation by 
generating clotting. If the Sun, the Moon & Jupiter are afflicted with 
Saturn and may be involved with the 6* house, coronary thromobosis is 
likely to be caused. If the lord of Lagna occupies the sign of Mercury or 
Mars and be aspected by inimical planets Saturn, Rahu or Ketu, it will 
cause paralysis. Mercury rules the youth, Saturn rules one's old age. 
When these two planets are not conjunct and are separated by about 
ninety degrees, then the young age paralysis is distinct possibility. But 
when they are together, old age paralysis is feared. If the 4 house is of 
prime importance in analyzing this disease, old age will be the main 
target for the heavenly bodies. If this is 10" house (meridian), then the 
victimization is at youth. All movements of any limb is controlled from 
the 3: house. So the affliction of 3" house is found in the cases of 
paralysis. All the yogas for the imbalance of windy disorders may be 
consulted under the yogas for Gout, Arthritis and Rheumatism before 
forecasting paralysis. 


(231) 


Remedial Measures 


1. 


Gems therapy (a) yellow Sapphire + Red coral in gold can 
prevent Apoplexy (stroke or cerebral haemorrhage in the brain) 
(b) Red coral + Emerald in gold can provide relief to paralytic 
patients. (c) Emerald + Blue Sapphire have great healing power 
for this disease. (d) Amethist or Neelam alone may be 
prescribed. 


Some yogic exercises are helpful in the case of paralysis. 


Anticoagulant therapy and inhibitors of platelet aggregation are 
preventive measures. Cigarette smoking should be stopped, 
diabetes and hyperlipidaemia treated and polythaemia controlled 
by veresection or radioisotope therapy. 


Example 53; Case of Paralysis: DOB 21-11-1962, 14=20hrs, Pisces 
Lagna, Cancer Rahu, Mars, Virgo Moon, Libra Venus, Scorpio Sun, 
Mercury; Capricorn Saturn, Ketu; Aquarius Jupiter. 


The native married in 1990 and became 
father on 26-1-93. He lost his father on ]2- 
12-1989. He met a severe road accident on 
27-12-1990. he was thrown out of his 
motorcycle which he was driving at 12.00 
noon and became unconscious 
immediately. He was hospitalized by [Rah 
some strangers and to his surprise he |yj,/ 
found that his right side was paralysed 
when he regained consciousness after 
almost 24 hrs. Yoga exercises provided him some relief and somehow 


he is managing his duties in his company. We will now examine-his 
birth chart. 


a. fearaka planet for this disease is Mercury. If he is afflicted 
heavily and be connected with the 6n house, 6" lord and the 
ninth house; and if the ninth house is also afflicted along 
with its lord, this disease is sure to occur. Here Mercury is 


(252) 


f 


posited with the 6" lord Sun in the 9m house. 9n lord Mars is 
debilitated and is heavily afflicted by Saturn and Rahu 
Ketu axis. So quite logically he had a paralysis attack. 


According to Mr. R. Santhanam (Essentials of Hindu 


. Predictive Astrology) when Mars aspects Saturn the latter 


placed in Cancer windy disorders to the native be foretold. 
Paralysis is actually a severe form of windy disorders. 


Saturn Ketu in any sign causes windy imbalance in the 
body. 

3" house rules hands and legs in general. In subtle analysis 
3 and ti" are both considered for right and left in order. 


Legs are generally considered from 11" and 12h houses of 
the horoscope. 


In this particular case 3 lord Venus is retrograde in the 8m house 
aspected by Saturn which is also carrying the influence of Ketu with 
him. Mars is also afflicting Venus. 3" house is aspected by the 6* lord 
Sun and Ketu. 1) "house is occupied by Saturn and Ketu. Therefore he 
has a paralytic attack in the right side. His 10* house is hemmed 
between malefics. 10" lord Jupiter is posited in the 12” house afflicted 
by the dangerous 8” aspect of Mars. Therefore the victimization 
occurred at his youth. 


Example 54. Case of paralysis : DOB 8-2-1974, 13=10, Muzaffarpur, 


Bihar. Taurus Lagna, Gemini, Satum, 

Ketu; Leo Moon; Sagittarius Rahu, | 
Capricorn . Venus, Jupiter, Sun; Aquarius 

Mercury, Aries Mars 


This is the birth chart of a female native 
who was paralysed in the right side (both 
had and feet got affected) when she was 
one year old. Wrong treatment at the 
hospital brought her sufferings. She can 


(253) 


walk and can also discharge her routine duties. 


a. 


. Satur Ketu in any sign produces windy disorders. Her 
Gemini and airy sign is vitiated with retrograde Saturn and 
Ketu. Other two airy signs, Libra is afflicted by Mars and 
Ketu and Aquarius is also afflicted by Ketu. 


3", 7m 11 * houses of both Janma Lagna and Chandra Lagna 
are afflicted which generated windy imbalance her body. 


Her 3: lord Moon is heavily afflicted by Saturn and Rahu. 
3" house is aspected by Mars and 6h lord Venus, Sun and 
debilitated 8* lord Jupiter. 11 * house is aspected by Saturn. 
11° lord Jupiter is debilitated and afflicted by 6n lord 
Venus. Saturn and Mercury are posited a few signs apart. 
So she had a paralytic attack at a very tender age on the 
right side. She was born in Apasavya group B 1" qtr. In this 
group benefic planets produce worst results. Her Deha = 
Cancer, Jeeva = Pisces. She was born with 1" cycle 58yr, 
Om-18d. Balance Capricorn opened only for 18 days. 
Sagittarius governed her for 10yrs. dasa of 8* lord brings 
only tragedies in life. Her 8m lord is Jupiter (a natural 
benefic planet) which is debilitated and combust. Dasa of 
such a planet triggered off the malady. KCD unfolds thé 
dooms days of life very accurately. 


ANAEMIA 


Anaemia is the umbrella term for a variety of disorders characterized 
by the inability of red blood cells to carry sufficient oxygen. This may 
be due to an abnormality of .low level of haemoglobin, the iron and 
protein based pigment in the blood. It is a condition where the amount 
of blood is less than normal. Its chief symptoms is paleness of skin, a 
wan of face, disinclination towards work of any kind, loss of appetite 
and a general lack of well being in order to understand its ramifications, 
a look at the composition of blood is essential. The blood consists, in 


(254) 


addition to the fluid, of corpuscles (white & Red), minute bodies of the 
size of eight thousand part of an inch. In the blood are also the various 
salts and proteins which nourish the tissues and also the waste products 
like uric acid must be removed from the body. The red corpuscles act as 
carriers of oxygen. Every millimetre of blood contains five million red 
blood corpuscles. The pus from a wound when examined under a 
microscope, will reveal the presence of millions of these dead warriors. 
Anaemia is caused by many factors, the chief among them being loss of 
blood due to injury, menstruation in excessive quantities, haemorrhage 
from piles, defective blood formation due to infections, toxins and 
drugs, inadequate intake and absorption of iron. Pregnant woman are 
predisposed to aneamia because of the demands of the growing baby 
and placenta. 


Example 55. A case of Anaemia & poor health : DOB 24-5-1959, 
3=40AM, Delhi. Aries Lagna, Mercury, Taurus Sun; Gemini Venus; 
‘Cancer Mars, Virgo Rahu; Scorpio Jupiter, Moon; Sagittarius 
Satum; Pisces Ketu. 

This is the birth chart of a young Punjabi . 
woman, school teacher by profession (MA 
Economies, B.Ed) who married a man 

from Uttar Pradesh on 17-8-1983. Her 

mother died on 3.10.1990. Her father was 

a commander in Navy and is now living in 
Delhi. She has an elder brother who is 

living in Bombay. Her physical sufferings 
started from the child birth (she delivered 

a male baby on 27.10.1985). Currently she — 

is suffering from anaemia, tonsillitis, weakness of the body, gets tired 
easily, allergic to medicines, stomach pain, headache, blockade of the 
right earetc. 


Astrological factors of Anaemia : 


Assimilation of iron from blood is ruled by Mars. Red colour of the 


(255) 


blood due to red blood corpuscles and haemoglobin ruled by the sign 
Scorpio, Jupiter is the karaka planet of colouring blood, if Satum 
conjunct Jupiter, there are chances of embolism. Watery signs namely 
Cancer, Scorpion and Pisces rule the blood. 4/8/12" houses do the 
same. Mars and Moon are the karaka planets of blood. When watery 
signs, 4/8/12 houses, lord of these houses, Mars and Moon are weak, 
afflicted badly or badly situated etc. or when these houses and planets 
are conjoined with evil lords, anaemia may come into presence. 


From chart 54 we find her 4" house of Janma Lagna is occupied by 
debilitated Mars. 8 house is occupied by malefic retrograde 12* lord 
Jupiter. 4" and 8" lords have exchanged places (4in lord in 8" provides 
unhappiness in life and the native suffers physically). 8 house is 
hemmed between Neptune and Saturn. 12" house is occupied by Ketu. 
Heavily afflicted Scorpion reduced the level of haemoglobin & red 
blood corpuscles in her body. 


If Mars is in the sign of Moon. i.e. in Cancer one will be troubled by 
various kinds of diseases including vitiation of blood and bile. 1t has 
been found by Mr. R. Santhanam (in his book Essentials of Predictive 
Hindu Astrology P 280) that Mars in Cancer aspected by Saturn cause 
one particular type of paralysis called Hemaplexia. Fortunately her 
Mars is not aspected by Saturn. So she is destined to suffer from various 
blood disorders. She is also suffering from headache. Aries is occupied 
(Aries is the head of the zodiac and is her Lagna) by the 6" lord Mercury 
and this house is hemmed between malefics, so she is suffering from 
headache. Where the lord of ,6* house is in the ascendant that is 
indicative of being afflicted by illness or opposition. | have seen 
another case, when the native's Virgo Lagna is occupied by 6n lord 
Saturn, his career has been ruined because of opposition. But where the 
1" & 6" lord exchange place they lead to double tragic effect: If they are 
at the same time malefics themselves or are in the company of another 
malefic, the illness or the enmity of detractors would be more serious. 
In her case Lord of Lagna is debilitated and conjoined with malefic 


(256) 


Uranus and aspected by 12” lord Jupiter and Ketu. Her 7” house is 
afflicted by the 4* aspect of Mars on Neptune. Weak 4” lord multiplied 
her sufferings. So for all these astrological reasons, she is maintaining a 
poor health. Her 9" house is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. 9”-Jord is in 8” 
and retrograde, these additional factors made her unlucky soul. 


Control ofanaemia: 


Boil tomatoes in an iron pot and drink this juice daily. Avoid spinach, 
chocolate, rhubarb, which hinder iron absorption. Oxalates prevent the 
absorption of iron in the body. Take lemon juice and other vitamin C 
rich foods which help for more iron absorption in the body. 


MIGRAINE (HEADACHE) AND ITS REMEDIAL 
MEASURES 


A throbbing pain of migraine, which typically occurs on one side of the 
head is often accompanied by nausea, vomiting and extreme sensitivity 
to sound and light,. A person feels sick all over. WHO ranks migraine 
among the most disabling ills. Migraines are now recognized to stem 
from neural changes in the brain and the releases of neuro 
inflammatory peptides that in turn constrict blood vessel. The headache 
starts before these vessels dilate headache. Afflict about 70% adults at 
i least occasionally and provoke millions, in westem countries each year 
to seek medical relief Most headaches are transient and due to tension 
or a temporary condition, such as cold or the flu, but some reflect a 
‘serious underlying problem. Recurrent headaches warrant medical 
attention to diagnose the type and determine the best treatment. 
Headache is a term which literally describes pain felt anywhere in the 
ehead. It poses certainly the commonest, probably'the most ambiguous 
and sometimes the most difficult clinical problem in medicine can be 
evoked from the venous sinuses, the arteries and the durra matter at the 
base of the brain. Displacement and distortion of these structures, 
‘particularly if rapid, cause headache. The 5", Sn and 10* cranial nerves 
contain pain fibers and direct compression of these nerves produces 
pain. Painjin the head may be due to lesions in nearby structures, such as 


(257) 


the eye and ear, causing headache, it may be due to the cranial 

neuralgias, meningeal irritation, vascular disturbances, traction and 

distortion of internal structures or to psychogenic causes. Headache is 

perhaps the most frequent single complaint of modern times. One of the 
main causes is tension and muscle spasms in the neck, scalp and jaw. 

For this reason massaging or other wise relaxing the neck muscles can 

sometimes help relieve headaches. Migraine headaches are really 

severe tension headaches, the causes are entirely psychological (in 

medical term it is a vascular headache). Attacks last usually 20-60 

minutes, but recur one or more times daily for days or weeks and then 

there is often a prolonged period of freedom: The pain is usual severe 

and burning. Primarily involves the frontal region and the eye but often 

spread to the face and sometimes to the neck. It occurs most commonly 

in young males. Many diseases have been linked with mental attitudes. 
Psychiatrists say that.migraine is definitely associated with hostility. 

They believe that for many of the illnesses arising out of tension, the 

victim has a deep seated desire to hurt someone or something around 

him or her and the headache is subsequent relation to this deep seated 

desire. Physical stress like lack of sleep, prolonged exertion with 

continuous bending and stooping, exposure to extreme of heat or cold 

could cause attacks of migraine. Certain types of food also cause 

headache, such as chocolates, paneer, fatty foods, alcohol, citrus fruits 
etc. These foods are containing triamine, which precipitates the 

migraine, Reserpine, which liberates 5 hydtoxytryptamine (serotinin) 

in the brain, can also cause migraine. Present day scientists believe that 
migraine is medicated by one or more biochemical disturbances. ' 


Astrological concept of headache (migraine): 


When headache begins, the brain flow increases to normal or above 
normal and in the scalp tissues where the headache is felt. It may be upto 
50% above normal. There is therefore evidence to prove that some 
major blood circulatory disturbance occurs when migraine attacks 
commence. Arterial blood is controlled by Jupiter and Aries (Head of 


(258) 


Zodiac of Kala Purusha) is ruled by Mars. 


1. 


It is therefore plain that Jupiter and Mars together or in aspect to 
each other and afflicted simultaneously can cause disturbance in 
blood circulation in the head. 


A planet posited in its own house affects Lagna. When this planet 
is afflicted, it brings headache. 

When the sign Aries or Lagna is afflicted and is hemmed between 
malefics, one may get headache. 

The Moon in Aries and Saturn in Cancer, Libra or Aquarius is 
sure sign of depressive headaches. 

The Moon and Jupiter would be invariably afflicted by Saturn 


and possibly by other malefics in the cases of migraine or severe 
headache. 


Cure of headache (Migraine): 


1. 


Drink Coca-cola, Coffee or other caffeine products (limited 
amount) 


Acute attacks of common migraine usually respond to soluble 
aspirin (600-900mg) or paracetamol (1g) with or without and 
antinauseant such as metaclopramide. If migraine attacks occur 
frequently enough to disrupt work and social life, then drug 
prophylaxis is justified... 


A headache is usually the result of malfunctioning of intestine. 
See that you do not suffer from constipation, if you do, treat that 
condition first. Remove dental problems. Avoid livers of 
animals. s 


Some Yoga Exercises & Pranayama are need for controlling the 
mind. Pure mind can eliminate headache. Psychological 
methods of stress management are more helpful. 


Gem Therapy : Ordinary headache Blue Sapphire, Tarquoise 
Headache with wind and acidity : Haqiq; Severe Migraine Ruby 


(259) 


is the best. Topaz+ Pearl may be suggested. 


Example 56. A case of severe migraine : DOB 19-12-1960/ 
00=30AM/Calcutta Birth Chart : Virgo Lagna; Scorpio Mercury, 
Sagittarius Sun, Moon, Jupiter, Saturn; Capricorn Venus, Aquarius 
Ketu; Gemini Mars (R); Leo, Rahu 


The native is suffering from severe type of 
migraine. on the onset of Moon's dasa (11" 
lord's dasa) from July 1990 and is not 
maintaining good health. He is unable to' 
do any work, although he looks apparently 
healthy. The astrological reasons for his 
migraine attack are as follows: Moon 
Jupiter & Sun are afflicted by the 6* lord 
Satum, Mars, Rahu Ketu axis. Lagna is | 
severely afflicted by Mars & Rahu and 6” 
lord Saturn. The lagna is devoid of any benefic influence. Lord of 
Lagna Mercury has exchanged place with 3“ lord Mars. This Merucry 
is squared by Rahu-Ketu Axis. The evil influence on the hylegs (Lagna, 
Sun and Moon) ruined his health. Evil influence on the dasa of the 11" 
lord brings many setbacks in one's life. 


Example 57. A case of migraine : 10.11.69/3=43AM/Delhi Birth’ 
Chart : Virgo Jupiter, Lagna; Libra Mercury, Sun, Moon, Venus; 
Capricorn Mars; Aquarius Rahu; Aries Saturn, Leo Ketu 


This is the birth chart of young Punjabi 
man, whom I met in All India Astrological 
Seminar between 24-26* December 1993 
at New Delhi. He suffered from severe 
migraine pain in 1992 Satum Moon dasa. 
His intensity of suffering increased when 
he took one Neelam as suggest by one 
astrologer. The astrological reasons of 
migraine are as follows: 


(260) 


Blood circulation on controlled by the signs Leo & Aquarius. On 
account of this reason heart disease problems are judged from 
both Leo and Aquarius. Both these signs are afflicted by Rahu- 
Ketu axis. Sun provides oxygen to he blood and Moon controls 
its circulation. If 4°/8"/12" houses of Janma Lagna, Sun, Moon, 
Leo and Aquarius are afflicted, one suffers from faulty blood 
circulation systerh. His Sun is afflicted by Saturn and so also the 
Moon. 4"house is a afflicted by Ketu, 4tn lord is debilitated (180° 
from its own sign) & is hemmed between malefics, Ketu and 12" 
lord Sun; 8m house is occupied by Saturn aspecte by Mars; 12” 
house is spoiled by Ketu and 8" aspect of Mars. Therefore he has 
a faulty blood circulation syste. 


In case of severe type of migraine. Moon, the significator of 
blood is found to be afflicted by Saturn and other malefics. His 
Moon is afflicted by Saturn, 12"lord Sun and Rahu. 


Any planet posited in its own sign afflicted by Saturn and other 
malefics produces migraine. His Venus is posited in its own sign 
Libra and is afflicted by Saturn, Rahu and 12" lord Sun. 


Sign Aries & Lagna should be afflicted by malefics for severe 
migraine. His Lagna is hemmed between malefics and Saturn 
occupies Aries which is afflicted by Mars. Aries is the head of the 
zodiac. 


According to Sri Sivaji Bhattacharjee (the TOA, Jan 1994 P 75) 
whenever Mercury is afflicted by Saturn or Rahu or by an 
afflicted Moon or when hemmed in between malefics in certain 
sensitive area of a horoscope, usually put such a native to suffer 
from insomnia, headache, a paining eye and sinus, grumpiness 
depression, frequent stomach pain and upset, indigestion, 
hyperacidity and some kinds of dermatological infections. 6" 
house of zodiac Virgo is hemmed between malefics, both Sun 
and Mercury, Karaka planets & bowels are afflicted, 6* house of 


(261) 


Chandra Lagna is hemmed between malefics. 6* house of Janma 

-*. Lagna is occupied by Rahu, so he has some weak digestion 
system. Afflicted Venus, debilitated 5" lord generated frustration 
in love affairs. His 7" house is hemmed between malefics. So all 
these unfortunate planetary configurations coupled with some 
peculiar psychological problems and Weak digestion system 
precipitated the severe migraine. 


CONSTIPATION IS THE GRANDMOTHER OF 
ALL DISEASES 


Overburdening of the stomach is the root cause of indigestion, which 
has to be avoided, after 40 yrs or so. The more light the food, the easier 
it is digested. Digestion starts the moment food enters the mouth: It 
mixes with the saliva and is more permeable for the gastric which 
exudes from the opening of the tiny glands of the stomach. The gastric 
juice consisting of pepsin and rennin breaks downs the proteins into 
smaller molecules. The gastric churning of the stomach mixes the food 
with the gastric juices and hydrochloric acid (HCI) and when it 
becomes soluble it passes through the pylorus, an orifice at the lower 
end of the stomach into the bowel. After it passes the intestine, the food 
is exposed to the action of bile, pancreatic juice, intestinal juice and 
bacteria. These juices contain many elements which break down the 
food into the final products like glycerin, which sustain the system. The 
indigestible residue, together with various substances which are waste 
matter, thrown out of the body in the stools. Constipation is a condition 
in which the bowels are opened too seldom or incompletely. The patient 
may pass infrequent and hard, dry stools, The main symptom is the 
desire to void the stools, but inability to do so. It is a common complaint 
and a large number of persons depend on laxatives and purgatives to 
clear their bowls. People take tea, coffee, cigarettes, cigars under the 
mistaken belief that it will help activate the bowels. Isobgul or Bran is 
helpful in the bowels to soften the stool, it draws water into the stool, 


(262) 


forms a gel like solution and thus provides bulk. It is not absorbed by 
the digestive track and is a natural product with no side effects. Indian 
chapattis with boiled mixed vegetables also prevents constipation. 
Take chaptti+palak paneer. You get relief within 24 hours. 


Excretory substances are classified as carbonaceous if they contain 
carbon-dioxide, nitrogenous if they contain nitrogen carbon materials 
or mineral if salts are involved and water. Nitrogenous wastes, in 
particular, are highly toxic and must be quickly removed because they 
can rapidly accumulate in the blood and canse death. Carbon dioxide 
and water are the main waste products formed when carbohydrates, fats 
and proteins are broken down. In the case of proteins, there is always an 
additional waste product, used COCNH,), which is carried to the kidney 
by blood for excretion. The name protein was introduced by Mulder 
(1839). The proteins are nitrogenous substance whose composition 
varies with the source. Carbon 47.50%, hydrogen 6-7% Oxygen 24- 
25%, nitrogen 16-17%sulphur 0.2 0.3% other elements maybe iron 
and phosphorus. All enzymes and hormones are also proteins. A simple 
sugar may contain 40 atoms, simple fat has 180 atoms, a simple protein 
of meat has 10,000 atoms. They serve chiefly as growth and repair 
materials, but their other functions are many and various, including the 
multiplicity of enzymes and hormone reactions. The basic units of 
proteins are amino acids. These are linked together to form chain 
molecular or polymers, that make up proteins. The breakdown of 
proteins to amino acids is achieved by the addition of water. Besides 
food the body must contain certain salts, such as sodium, potassium, 
phosphorus, calcium, iodine, Sodium and potassium play an important 
role in the functioning of nerve and muscle fibres. Meat, cheese, eggs, 
milk and vegetables are all rich minerals. Once food has been broken 
down into constituents acceptable to the body, it moves through the 
intestinal walls and eventually into the blood, which all carries to all 
parts of the body. This is known as absorption. Part of any meal We eat is 
destined within a space of 3 days to become an integral part of our 
bodies. In fact, due to continual breakdown and assembly of food 


(263) 


materials within the cells, every meal we eat charges our physical and. 
chemical make up slightly. A number of organs are involved in 
excretion in animals. 


1. 


The liver excretes bile, which contains some waste products of 
the breakdown of hemoglobin. 


The liver alsoexcretes urea, a nitrogenous waste. 


A certain amount of material is excreted by the intestine in 
addition of fecal matter egested. 


Some water is also lost by the intestine, but this water is egested 
rather than excreted. 


The lungs deal with excess carbon dioxide and water, both being 
products of respiration within the cells and therefore at one time a 
part of the protoplasm. 


The skin functions as an excretory organ by excreting via sweat 
glands some, 5-10% of all the nitrogenous waste that 
accumulates in the blood. The organs that specialize in excretion 
are the kidneys. They operated refined and complex high 
pressure filters, whose working is still not fully understood. Their 
main function is to regulate the water, minerals and food content 
of the blood. This is a vital requirement, for if chemical or 
physical balance of the blood is upset only very slightly, the 
functioning of the body is seriously impaired and death can easily 
result. The urine obtained from a mammal whose kidneys have 
been chilled contain a noticeably greater quantity of sugars and 
salts than is present in urine excreted under normal 
circumstances. The various excretory processes, and the 
functioning of the kidneys in particular, afford excellent 
examples of homeostatic, or control of body chemical balance. 


Shits and Fibre diet : Salad and fresh fruits, pulses contain high fibre 
diet. A detailed comparison has been made of the shits of Africans who 
live in rural areas and who eat large quantities of high fibre food with 


(264) 


the shits of the average Europeans with his highly processed and 
refined food. It was found that the weight and size of the shit of the 
African was far greater and the smell was much less than that of the 
average Europeans. The transit time of the shit in the body of in the case 
of African was also far less than in the case of the European whose 
faecal matter might be in the colon for as long as two or three days as 
against the 24 hrs for an African. Actually one should pass his faecal 
matter daily in the morning without fail. Bowl cleaning is a must for a 
good health. Bigger and softer the shit is, the easier is it for the faecal 
matter to be propelled along the colon as against hard stools of the 
refined and processed diet. Big soft stool with their rapid transit time 
results in quick movement in the bowels and might prevent harmful 
bacteria from causing damage to the colon there just is not enough time 
for noxious bacteria to harm the colon. Cancer of the colon is the 2 
biggest type of cancer after cancer of the lung. In the USA alone, 70,000 
new cases of colon cancer are reported every year. It is thought that the 
faecal matter lying in the colon for long periods and also the pressure in 
the colon might be the cause of cancer of the colon, especially as cancer 
of the colon is very rare in rural Africa where the transit'time of bowel 
movement is relatively more rapid. So it would appear that cancer and 
other serious types of diseases might be avoided by keeping high fibre 
diet. Constipation causes heaviness and headaches, lethargy loss of 
appetite, insomnia and apathy. As a matter of fact, any disease is an 
indication of malfunctioning of the machine that it the human body and 
costiveness is the GANDMOTHER of all ailments. The intestine, 8.5 to 
9 meters long, is the form of one continuous tube suspended in loops in 
the abdominal cavity. At the lower end is the large intestine through 
which stools pass via the rectum. If the muscles of the large intestine 
lose their tone or strength, stools tend to adhere to its insides. Atony of 
the intestines can be cured by exercise. A walk in the moming or 
evening, better still jogging will help. Another way to help intestine to 
void the stool is to cool it. Take a rough towel, fold it so that it can 
absorb much water, and place it on your lower abdomen after 


(265) 


- immersing it in cold water. It should be done before one goes for a walk. 
Cooling and then warming it through exercise helps large intestines to 
regain its tone. Swimming for !5 minutes wit Cure constipation. Take 
regularly germinated grams, lemon, fruits, curd, milk and leafy 
vegetables (like palak and cabbage). In case of chronic constipation use 
Softovac, an Ayurvedic medicine, I teaspoonful with warm water 
before bed time. In case of very severe constipation use softovac and 
Looz (Lactulose solution) for cleaning the bowel after each 15 days. It 
is not necessary to use Looz regularly. Some people suffer from 
constipation and other diseases because their intake of water is too 
insufficient. The water intake should be 4 to 5 liters in summer and 3 
liters in winter. Drinking more fluids is not harmful. A glass of water 
after the moming immediately after waking up can help many cases of 
constipation. Softovac and Looz are available in any medicine shop in 
India. Patient suffering from amnesia (loss of memory), constant 
fatigue insomnia, incipient gout, asthma, indigestion, headache, 
lumbago and general weakness will be benefited by clearing their 
bowls regularly. Take excess palak panner or violet fruits or red water 
melon and check the colour of your shit. You should try to pass out the 
undigested portion of food within 24 hrs. in such cases, nobody suffers: 
from any serious disease. 


Let us try understand why there is constipation. Somehow, there is less 
water available in the stomach for the digestion, hence the stool sticks 
to the colon tube, and does not come out easily. The native suffers from 
flatulence. Excess gas generates in the stomach. The pressure applied 
in voiding a constipated bowel tends to distend the veins and around the 
inflamed condition of the veins around the lower erid of the bowel, piles 
or haemorrhoids sets in. The piles become enlarged and red and give off 
a thin blood stained discharge. Allopathic treatment available in the 
world is the worst for constipation. This system depends more on 
surgery than drugs in the case of intractable piles, but even removal of 
he offending part does not give relief, since the likely to occur again. I 
have seen many persons die after operation. So nobody should go to 


(266) 


allopathic doctor for help in the case of piles. Fasting gives a relief. 
Take only lemon water, steam heated vegetables. Drink excess water. 
Take dry fruits, avoid cereals and pulses for seven days. You are cured. 
And a fasting patient should return to normal diet only gradually, to 
normal diet. Hot milk, germinated grams., salad, 4-5 liters of water, 
leafy vegetables, fruit juices, yogurt, dry 1-2 chapatti will keep 
anybody healthy even up to 85 yrs. No medicines are required. For a 
healthy life one should take 500 mg vitamin C daily through fruits and 
vegetables. 


How to rise above mediocre level : 


One should be health conscious, knowledge conscious and good 
personality conscious. Have sound education first. Knowledge speaks 
and wisdom listens. Ask your child to read 3 hrs a day. One should be 
passionate about what one does. It' just passion that makes you rise 
above mediocity and takes you towards excellence. Whatever 
happens,, you have to stick to your gut feeling and your core 
competence. If you waver from that you may have to suffer in a rot of 
mediocrity. Pranayam and other exercises will allow to enjoy perfect 
health. Avoid sleep in for lengthy hours. Do not allow the parasites to 
make nest at your stomach. keep the stomach light'afterdischarging off 
all the wastes daily. Always drink boiled water, RO/Aqua guard water 
or famous brand bottled water Be sure you are drinking germ free water. 


Bad breath and its cure: 


One out of tenadults (male or female) has bad breath. The main cause of 
bad breath is undoubtedly a stomach upset; another cause mouth not 
being properly washed. Certain lung diseases such as bronchiectasis 
also cause bad breath. A very good thing to remember, however is 
normally never to breathe fully into the face of the person to whom you 
are speaking, it is usual safer to turn the face side ways when one is 
speaking, because very often one does not even know when one has bad 
breath. One should clean the tongue with a plastic/iron tongue washer 
for removing bad breath. Take saline gurgle and use clove and 


(267) 


cardamom after eating. Foul breathing persons will not be‘liked by 
senior employers and friends. Develop a clean habit. Wash the mouth 
with water boiled with neem leaves, chewing betel leaves will also 
solve the problem,. Tulsi leaves are excellentfor removing bad breath. 


Astrological background : 


Waste material of the body is excreted by Mars,. When Mars is afflicted 
or weak one suffers from constipation. The author has Mars in the 3 
house in Pisces, which is aspected by the 8” lord from Virgo. He is 
suffering from this dangerous disease since his boyhood days. Use 
copper ring for relief (Astrology applied by Dr. S.S. Chartterjee P 177). 
Urine is excreted from the body by Moon and Mars. 


LEUCODERMA 


The body is composed of a number of organs. About 2 square meter of 
the human body is covered with an elastic membrane is known as skin. 
Js proper functioning in its action as secretory, excretory and heat 
regulating organ, as a protection for the deeper structures and for 
appreciation of sensation as heat. Cold, pressure and pain, is necessary 
for health. The main functions of the skin are a) Protection of the 
underlying structures. b) Appreciation of tactile and thermal 
sensations c) Control of body temperature d) Secretion e)An 
imunological agent f) Excretion of waste products of blood through 
perspiration g) An agent for supply of Vitamin D through the effect of 
sunlight. Leucoderma is the condition of the skin where it loses 
pigment, which is called melanin in some parts of the body. It is a 
deficiency syndrome due to unhygienic eating habits and is not 
contagious. It may be cured in the early stages with precaution of 
dieting. A strong and well placed Mercury is always headway for a 
shining, healthier and more youthful skin and brilliant appearance. 
Mercury governs the health of skin, the single largest organ of the body. 
Naturally all ailments relating to liver, abdomen, nervous system, 
hormonal function, cerebrospinal nervous systems and cerebellum will 
appear to show their symptoms on the skin first or any malady relating 


(268) 


to skin has its deep rooted rapport with the inner organic function of the 
body. So skip has its raft similitude with a mirror which reflects 
physical well being and acts our health index in sounding timely alarm 
well in advance to take needed prophylactic care. Any change of 
pigmentation red or violet spot, itching, formation of bages, wrinkle, 
pimple, rush boils and frequent uneven while patches, shrinkage, 
recoilation, bristle, and regular erosion of cuticle are the signs of 
abnormality of organic function inside the body and symbols of certain 
forth coming disease. An ill placed or an afflicted Mercury always leads 
to rush or boil and apt the native easily susceptible to bacterial and 
fungal infections itch, eczema, wrinkle, uneven contraction with streak 
or stripe all over the skin making the native unhealthy in appearance 
and conduces premature aging. Venus controls body lustre. So afflicted 
Venus and afflicted Mercury will enforce premature aging. Whenever 
Mercury is afflicted by Saturn or Rahu or by an afflicted Moon or when 
hemmed in between malefics in certain sensitive area of the horoscope, 
usually puts such native to suffer from insomnia, headache, a paining 
eye and sinus, grumpiness depression, frequent stomach‘ pain, 
indigestion, hyper acidity and some kinds of dermatological infections. 
When both Mercury and the Moon are afflicted in an odd house may 
create ‘strife, nervous disorder, frenzy mood, loss of sleep, 
melancholia, phobia, mania, chronic trouble of stomach and even 
madness in certain cases. Astrologically Lagna and its lord represents 
the whole body i.e. skin. If Lagna lord conjoin Mercury Mars or Moon 
in any sign or house and aspected by Rahu/Ketu the native suffers from 
chronic skin disease. According to Ayurveda, the skin diseases are 
caused by excess of Pitta (bile) and tridosha in the blood. Sun and Mars 
indicate bile, Sun is the significator of lagna and Mars is the head of the 
Zodiac (Kalpurush), Aries. So they are capable to causing skin disease. 
Mercury and Jupiter are the lords of tridosha (being the ruler of 
common signs). Moon and Mars are the significators of blood: Venus 
and Moon are watery planets and indicate flowing of blood in the body. 
The skin disease are caused by the impurities in the blood. So 


(269) 


ascendant, its lord, Sun, Moon, Mars and Venus are afflicted in any 
house by Saturn/Rahw/Ketu one suffers from some skin diseases. When 
Mercury/or Jupiter is also involved, some chronic skin disease is 
caused. As skin diseases are caused by Toxic matter or impurities mn 
blood, so watery signs Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces are also involved. 
Any affliction to Sun/or Mars or their weakness causes skin diseases. 


Aphorisms of Leucoderma: 


BPHS has the following specifying different types of kustha (Leprosy) 
including $ weta Kustha or Leucoderma: 


ante Borgen ater als aR | 
TEN aT ae BS TA Paes 1 


rrranert fer cs Rarer TAT gTaHt | 

PATHS TET BOT BUS MPT AS I 

ad . R ( i 1 | 

Leprosy can manifest if Mars or Mercury being the Ascendant lord and 
Moon are afflicted by Rahu and Saturn. Moon in the Ascendant (other 
than Cancer) associated with Rahu can give risk to sweta-kustha or 
Leucoderma. Saturn in place of Rahu may cause Krishna Kustha while , 
Mars under similar condition would bring in Rakta kustha. We find ' 
from here that Moon, Mercury and Rahu are perhaps the basic 
participants for materialization of Leucoderma. Rakta-kustha is 
certainly a leprosy whereas Krishna kustha can be either a dreaded 
from of leprosy or a chronic cause of violent eczema depending upon 
the degree of affliction. 


1. According to Jataka-Tatwa TT TTY TTT faS\ | Moon 
and Venus in watery sign afflicted by malefics can cause 
Leucoderma. 


2. If Moon be in the 4* house aspected by Ketu, Venus or Mars in 
karakamsa chart, Leucoderma occurs. 


(270) 


Cancer, Capricorn karakma Ascendant aspected by malefics do 
the same thing. 


The ascendant lord conjunct Mercury along with Rahu or Ketu. 


The Moon in Ascendant, Sun in 7", Saturn Mars in the 2nd or 12" 
house. 


The ascendant lord in the 8" house, afflicted by malefics. 

Moon Venus in the 8n house, afflicted by malefics. 

Sun Saturn Mars combination anywhere in the birth chart. 
Saturn Moon conjunct in the 6" house 

Saturn Mars Moon in Aries or Tauruscan lead to Leucoderma. 


The Sun is watery signs or with Venus usually leads to psoriasis 
and or white patches. Mars and Ketu or Rahu, afflicted Lagna or 
Venus in Scorpio and Pisces as also Cancer gives leucodermic 
patches 


Example 58. Cure of Leucoderma : 21-1-93/9:01 AM/Noida. 
Aquarius Venus; Taurus. Ketu; Gemini Mars (R); Virgo’ Jupiter; 
Scorpio Rahu; Sagittarius Moon; Capricorn Saturn, Sun, Mercury. 


I made a forecast that the boy would suffer 
from Leucoderma in 1993.He is the son of 
a prosperous ITT Engineer. Leucoderma 
appeared on his face in July 05 as per my 


Nep 
forecast during Sun Rahu dasa. But by Aner 
using Photoban 15, an allopathic drug he 
was cured completely in.May 06. Here 


Sun is afflicted in both Rasi and Navamsa. 
Sun is the 7” lord and hence a marakesh 
planet.. In almost 90% cases, the native > 

suffers in Sun's mahadasa. Marriages should not be performed during 


Sun's Mahadasa. Jupiter provides recovery power. Fortunately this 
planet is exalted in his navamsa. Saturn is his Atmakaraka planet and 


(271) 


Leo is the Karakamsa Lagna. Rahu is placed in the 4* house, and 
afflicted Mercury in the 6" house in Karakamsa. His Mercury is in the 
12 house, afflicted by Sun, Saturn and Mars, which produced white 
spots on his face. 


Example 59. Leucoderma of an advocate : DOB 6-9-1936/ 
13=40hrs/Rahu Sagittarius Rahu, Lagna; Aquarius Saturn (R); Aries 
Moon; Gemini Ketu; Cancer Mars; Leo Sun; Virgo Venus, Mercury; 
Scorpio Jupiter. : 


He is a very prosperous man of the 

house, constructed by the above native. 

Such is the destiny pattern. If the lord of 5" 

house is located in 6"/7"/12" house and is 

father. His 5 lord is debilitated and in the 8" house and is aspectd by 
Lagnesh Jupiter. So we are not surprised to observe his ordeals in real 
life. He was attacked with Leucoderma on lips in 1988 (Jupiter Sun 
invariably bring set backs in life (Advanced Predictive Astrology, Vol 2 
by Dr. S.S. Chatterjee). Mars is hemmed between malefics, produced 
excess bile. Ketu occupies the house of Mercury and Mercury is in 
produced severe type of Leucoderma. In 2004, I found his 80% of body 
is covered by irregular white patches. His Jupiter is debilitated in 
Navamsa and hence Jupiter Sun dasa produced the Sweta-Kustha to 


society, but very sad for his son. His eldest 

child, a daughter got married with an : 
executive of NTPC. Son is also lawyer, oo 

aspected by the lord of Lagna and also by 

dasa between 25-1-88 to 13-11-88). Sun and Jupiter is exact square 
conjunction with debilitated Venus, squared by Rahu Ketu axis. 
him. Excess bile secretions accelerated the attack. Weak Venus 


but kicked his aged parents out of the 
CA 
_ Plu Mar 
Mars and Rahu, the son is opposed to the 
positions brought the tragedy in life. Mutual square position of planets 
Mercury is posited in 8* lord Moon's star. Highly afflicted mercury 
snatched away the body lustre. 


(272) 


Example 60 Leucoderma started in the dasa of 8" lord : 
DOB4-6-68/7=57 PM/Burdwan, WB; Sagittarius Lagna; Pisces 
Saturn, Rahu; Taurus Sun, Venus, Mars; Gemini Mercury Leo 
Jupiter, Moon; Virgo Ketu. 


Her 6" lord Venus is heavily afflicted by 


Sun, Mars, Ketu, Saturn. Afflicted Sun, a 
Mars produced excess bile in the system. 

Venus is heavily afflicted and is a combust 

planet. Venus controls body luster. 

Afflicted Venus added fuel to the fire. Her 

Mercury though posited in his own house 


is squared by Ranu-Ketu axis. Ketu 
occupies the house of Mercury. 8" lord 
Moon is aspected by Mars, which is 
placed in the 6m lord's star. As soon as the dasa of 8m lord started, 
Leucoderma attacked her legs through socks, because Pisces is heavily 
afflicted by Saturn and Rahn. Her disease is restricted in.the abdomen 
region through Homoeopathy Treatment. She got married on 17-6- 
1992 during Mars-Moon dasa. Saturn Rahu in the 8” house.of Jupiter 
reduced her recover powery. Afflicted Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, 
Pisces sign brought the dangerous disease to her. 


Example 61. Leucoderma of anIOCL Chief Engineer : DOB 28-3- 
54., 6:04AM, Calcutta. Pisces Sun, Venus; Taurmms Jupiter; Gemini 
Ketu; Libra Saturn; Sagittarius Moon, 
Mars, Rahu; Aquarius Mercury. 


His 6"/8" lords occupy his lagna, and they 
are squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. Ketu 
occupies the house of Mercury, Mercury 
is placed in the star of Rahu. Mercury is 
very much afraid of Rahu, on account of 
this reason Mercury Rahu or Rahu 
Mercury dasa brings disasters in life. His 


(273) 


tragedy in life started Sun-Jupiter dasa in the end of 1969, when he was 
just 16 yrs old. I have already mentioned Sun's .dasa is bad for 90% 
persons on this earth. Sun is his 6” lord, the ruler of diseases. Jupiter is 
spoiled by the placement of Mars and Rahu in the 8n house of Jupiter. 
Weak Venus (body lustre), weak Mercury afflicted Mars (produced 
excess bile), weak Pisces sign, weak Jupiter brought Leucoderma on 
the face and fingers. Since Venus is exalted and vangottam, only 10% of 
his skin are affected by this dangerous disease. When the malefic 
planets occupy 1*, 6m, 8" or 12" house in the birth chart, they ‘reate a 
deficiency or excess causing various diseases, First house is occupied 
by 6"/8" lords afflicted by Mars and Squared by Rahu-Ketu axis, Saturn 
occupies the 8" house. His 6°/8"/12" lords are afflicted, which 
precipitated in the form of Leucoderma. It is a punishment, bestowed. 
by God to a human being. Mars, Saturn and the Moon cause most of the 
diseases. Mars in Libra make a man too much virulent like a mad dog 
and gives serious and chronic ailments like mental retardation, 
paralysis, madness, etc. A very strong Mars makes a native very strong 
and the native rises very high in life. 


VISION DEFECT 


God has provided eyes just beneath the forehead, nose occupies the 
space between the eyes. For enjoying the beauty of nature, the sky, the’ 
sea, the mountains, thousands of varieties of animals, for guarding 
against enemies, we need eyes. The eyes provide power to educate 
himself about his surroundings and helps to gain trernendous 
knowledge by reading books. Good looking big eyes add beauty of the 
face. All the good looking attractive females have broad eyes. Without 
eyes the world becomes shrouded in darkness and life becomes a cupful 
of sorrows. Inside the eye is a lens, which focuses light on to 
particularly sensitive part of the retina. In a camera, the focusing is 
arrived by moving the lens forward or backwards. In the eye, this is 
made possible by a change in the shape of the lens, an operation known 
as accommodation. The upper and lower eyelids lubricate, warm and 


(274) 


cleanse the surface of the eye by sluicing it with lachrymal fluid during 
involuntary blinking. Tear fluid keeps the eye surface moist and clear of 
debris, and it is also antiseptic, thus inhibiting the action of bacteria. In 
very cold weather the tear fluid is produced copiously in order to 
insulate the eye. At the back of the eye is the light receptive area, the 
retina, which is made up of a number of layers of nervous fibres, tissue 
and two types of photoreceptors, rods and cones, so named because of 
their shapes. The cones are colour receptive and are thought to be 
mainly responsive to the primary light colours of red, green and blue. 
The rods are more sensitive to dim light and are arranged around the 
periphery of the retina. In all there are some 230 million rods and seven 
million cones, the latter being concentrated in a disc little more than 
3/16" of an inch in diameter known as the forea, centralis. Due to the 
manner of development of the eye in the embroyo, the retina is 
inverted, with the rods and cones at the back of the retina behind six 
distinct layers of neurons approximately a millimeter in thickness. 
Light has to pass though these layers in order to reach the rods and 
cones. There are six types of eye defect a) Hypermetropia (Long 
-Focal) or Farsightedness. It is a defect that causes the lens to focus at 
the point behind the retina instead of focusing on it. Persons who are far 
signted can see object at the distance but find it difficult to see nearby 
objects cleanly. Thus hypermetropia may also be referred to as “long 
focal" sight. The defect may be due to a number of causes, the eyeball 
may be too short, the lens too thin, or there may be the much tension on 
the suspensary ligaments. The defect is overcome by placing a convex 
lens in front of the eye. The additional lenses increases the 
magnification of the focusing system and reduces the focal length so 
that the image coincides with the retina. b) Myopia or near sightedness, 
is the result of light focused at a point infront of the retina this "shot 
focal" sight is usually due to an eyeball that is too long. It may also be 
caused by inability of the ciliary muscle to relax completely and thus 
maximum pull is exerted on the lens via the ligaments. Treatment 
consists of changing the eye lens system by placing a concave lens in 


(275), 


front of the eye. By this means the light rays converge on the retina. c) 
Astigmatism It has been estimated that 9 out of 10 people suffer from 
degree or other of astigmatism, a blurring of the image at certain points 
due to slight imperfections in the cornea, which distorts the light rays as 
they pass through it. Vision is sharpened by placing in front of the eye a 
lens specially shaped to compensate for the unequal curvature of the 
comea. d) Glaucoma the leading cause of total blindness is due to 
severe Glaucoma. It begins as a gradual painless process whereby the 
humours within the eye are unable to drain through tiny canals in the 
choroid. As a result, pressure steadily builds up until eventually, the 
nerves in the retina are damaged. e) Cataract : in advancing age, the 
lens may become opaque or cloudy, preventing some of the light from 
reaching the retina. The treatment for cataract consists of removing the 
lens and replacing it with a powerful eye glass or contact lens. f) 
Presbyopia Another defect that comes with advancing age is 
presbyopia, a condition caused by a loss of elasticity of the lens and a 
consequent loss in the ability to accommodate. This defect can be 
overcome by wearing glasses. 


Astrological background: 


Taurus is the 2 house of the zodiac and Pisces is the 12m house. Right 
eye is controlled by the 2n house and Taurus, left eye is controlled by 
the 12" house and Pisces. In the case of ladies 2m house is left eye and 
12m house is the right eye. I have examined thousands of horoscopes 
and found truth in the prophecy of our sages. Sun and Moon are the 
giver of light in our eyes. Sun controls right eye and Moon controls left 
eye. The overall incharge of eyes is Venus. When the 2™/12” house, 
their lords and the significators Sun, Moon and Venus are afflicted or 
badly placed, it causes eye trouble, loss of sight, ulcer in eyes etc. Rahu 
rules over cataract in the eyes. The malefic planets Mars, Saturn, Rahu 
and Ketu in the 2"/12” cause eye trouble according to their inherent 
nature. Mars causes damages to eyes though injury, bums, 
inflammatory causes. Satum a dark and restrictive planet cause weak 


(276) 


eyesight, myopic vision and long lasting eye trouble. In the case of 
Rahu there is degeneration of the eye and disease is difficult to 
diagnose. White pearl (the Gem for Moon) improves eyesight and 
Ruby (the Gem for Sun) strengthens the eyes. Sun in the 8"/12" house 
harms the right eye and Moon in the 12"house harms the right eye. One 
has graceful eyes and possess good eyesight when 2™, 12",6" and the 8in 
houses are associated with benefics and their lords are bereft of malefic 
influences. Afflicted Sun in Lagna causes eye trouble. Afflicted Sun in 
Leo causes night blindness. Saturn and Mars jointly posited in the end 
or 12: house cause eye injury leading to blindness, provided Venus ts 
afflicted and weak. Ihave seen many cases where the native has Saturn 
and Mars in the 12" house, but has no problem in the eyes, because of 
strong Venus, or strong Moon, or Strong Sun. Malefics in the 2", 6m, 8h 
and 12"house from lagna, the Sun bring eye disease. 


Aphorisms of eye disease : 


1. The location of Sun and Moon in the 12" or 2™ house afflicted by 
malefics diminishes eyesight. The same is the result when *Sun 
and the Moon are weak and aspected by malefics. 


2. Affliction of Mercury in 2"/6"/8"/12" causes eye trouble and 
sharp decline in eye sight. 


3. Malefics in 2"/12" aspected by Saturn weakens eye signt. 


4, | Weak Moon in 8" house aspected by strong Saturn inflicts severe 
eye disease. 


5. If many planets be in the 2na house 
aspected by Saturn, they may cause 
defect in the eye sight. We shall 
study a fewcase histories. 


Example 62. Spectacles in childhood : 
DOB 14-6-2000/ 8=41AM/Delhi. Cancer 
Lagna, Rahu; Libra Moon, Capricorn 


(277) 


Ketu; Taurus Sun, Jupiter, Saturn; Gemini Mercury, Venus, Mars. 


He opened his life with Jupiter's dasa, which is debilitated in Naymsa 
and is conjoined with Saturn, Ketu. The dasa of such a planet cannot be 
good. Jupiter Moon dasa in 6/8 relationships, forced him to wear 
specks. Sun is afflicted by Saturn, Moon is squared by Rahu Ketu axis. 
Venus has conjoined Mars. Both 2“/12" lords are afflicted. So all these 
unfortunate yogas forced him to use specks while he is minor kid. 
Lagna is devoid of any benefic influence. 


Example 63: Detached eye retina :.Right eye blindness : 
DOB 2-3-2001/6-45 PM/Delhi : . Leo Lagna; Scorpio Mars; 
Sagittarius Ketu; Capricorn, Mercury; Aquarius Sun; Pisces, Venus; 


His Moon is Apasaya group A, Is quarter. 


1" cycle 47y-8m=26d. He opened his life 
with Taurus 12d-8m-26d. In Apasaya 
diagram dasa of a benefic planet will be Sy, 


poor. His Deha = Cancer, Jeeva - 

Sagittarius. Deha and Jeeva signs in 6/8 Marys 

positions provides a chequered career and 

a stormy and abruptly ending of life. Deha 

and Jeeva lords should not be associated in VEEN 
any manner. If they are conjoined together 
or exchange aspects, a great calamity in life is sure to follow. 
Unfortunately Deha and Jeeva lords have conjoined together in Taurus. 
An unsuccessful operation took place in USA when he was 3 months 
old. Dasa lord of Taurus, Venus has moved to 11" house from its natal 
position and is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. Planets in the.1 1" house or 
the dasa of 11" lord produces severe diseases. Taurus is afflicted by 
6"”8"/12" lords. So we are not surprised that the dasa of malefic Taurus 
ruined his right eye while he was only 3 month old. Sun is afflicted by 
Mars, 2™ lord Mercury is placed in the 6" house hemmed between 
maleics 12" lord is exalted and is in Gaja Keshri Yoga with Jupiter. God 
saved his left eye. His Venus though exalted is squared by Rahu Ketu 


(278) 


axis and Venus is placed in the 8* house. As per Vimsotteri dasa Moon- 
Rahu dasa in 2/12 relationship snatched away vision from the right eye. 


Example 64. Glaucoma disease : DOB 17-6-37, 15=20PM, Calcutta: 
died on Dec 30,2003. Libra Mars, Lagna; Scorpio Rahu; Capricorn 
Jupter; Pisces Saturn; Aries Venus; Taurus Ketu, Mercury; Gemini 
Sun; Virgo Moon. 


He was the principal of a degree college in 

Bengal. He suffered from eye disease | 
throughout his life and used to wear 

specks from his infant days. Many people 

in his family become totally blind. He was 

very much afraid of blindness from 

glaucoma and died in Dec,. 2003, during - 
Mercury Venus dasa on account of 

sudden and unexpected heart failure. 

Mercury in 8", Venus in 7" hemmed 

between malefics became his killer planets. His Venus is aspected by 
Mars, hemmed between malefics. Moon is aspected by Saturn. Sun is 
free from affliction. Which helped him to avoid total blindness. 2na 
house has Rahu, 2n lord is in Lagna, 12" lord Mercury is heavily 
afflicted. So all these unfortunate yogasa precipitated in his eye 
disorders. 


Example 65. Blind female girl': 17-6-1996, 19=08hrs, Delhi, 
Sagittarius Jupiter; Pisces Sat, Ketu; 


Taurus Venus, Mars,. Mercury; Gemini Uminee 
Sun, Moon; Virgo Rahu \ 10 ; 


She was born in Apasavya group B with ]* 
cycle for 17 yrs. 1" dasa was of 12 yrs 


Taurus. Deha = Aries, Jeeva= Sagittarius, 26) 


Taurus dasa brought disasters in life. 
When a native opens his/her life 6°/8°/12" ae 
lord's dasa things are not much 


(279) 


encouraging. Her Taurus is heavily afflicted by Mars, Saturn, Rahn. In 
Apasarya diagram dasa of benefic planets produce worst results. Her 
Taurus dasa at birth made her totally blind very silently. She was born 
as the eldest daughter of a medical doctor (M.S.) of Metro Hospital, 
Noida. In 2004, the entire family migrated to New Zealand. Twin 
female babies were born; but the other child died at the time of birth. 
After about 8 months, her parents realised that their baby is blind from 
birth. The right eye is judged from the 2nd house and Sun, while the left 
eye is judged from 12" house and Moon. Her Sun and Moon are 
squared by Rahu Ketu axis. Rahu in the 10" house and Ketu in the 4* 
house, sometimes brings too much miseries for the native. Slowly they 
begin to surrender themselves completely to the unknown universal 
sprit. God only writes sad episode about a person, when Jupiter is too 
much afflicted. Her lord Lagna/4" lord Jupiter is squared by Rahu- 
Ketua axis, Mars and Saturn are throwing deadly combined influence 
oh Jupiter. Aspect of 8m lord Moon on Lagna and its lord is reducing per 
personality. Satum in the 4h house causes spleen disorders and loss of 
eye sight (TOA, Sept 1993 P 6) 5/9" lords in 2/12 relationships speaks 
about her sufferings in life. Afflicted Sun, Moon, Venus, 2™ house, 12" 
house made her blind since birth. 


IMPOTENCY 


Impotency is a curse in human life. The married life will be ruined if 
impotency catches the native at a young age. With advanced age, sex 
urge decreases. For creating a baby one has enter the penis into an 
opening in the female called vagina. Each Ascendant denotes different 
sex urges. Aries, Leo, Sagittarius are highly energetic and are 
oversexed. Taurus, Virgo, Capricom are sober in sex behaviour. 
Gemini, Libra (oversexed), Aquarius have secret liking for sex but hide 
. their feelings. Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces are not very sex oriented. The 
size of penis varies from 4”-10” inch. Vaginal canal also varies from 
4”-10” inch. Elephant woman has the longest passage. 8” house 
indicates size of a male organ. If Sun is in the 8” he will be passionate 


(280) 


feelings about sex Moon interest in sex depends on mood, Mars Sex 
life become very important, Jupiter principled sex life. Mercury 
Interest in sex on arousal of emotions by others. Venus Oversexed, 
Saturn Sexual but inferiority complex and frigid out looks. Mars Venus 
combination in 2™/4"/7°/8"/12" makes a lady oversexed. Venus in 
Aries/Scorpio makes the female native passionate in nature. If Rahu or 
Mars conjoins Venus in Mars signs the lady becomes nymphomaniac. 
She prefers hundreds of boy friends. The same thing appears in the 
house of Venus. When malefic occupy 3 quadrants, the native will be 
animal like in sex acts. The sex organ of the male are composed of the 
testes, for the formation of sperms (Seeds), the penis and the associated 
glands and ducts inside the body. The testes are paired and supported 
outside the body as testicles in scrotal sacs. In fish, frogs, reptiles, birds 
and most mammals, the testes remain within the body as do ovaries of 
tthe female. The reason for external testes in man and in some other 
animals is that their testes require a temperature slightly below that of 
the body for the formation of sperm. The mammalian penis is normally 
flaccid. Prior to copulation, the penis become erect or rigid, thus 
making it possible to complete the reproductive act. Erection is 
accomplished by means of spongy tissue that is well supplied with 
blood vessels when the blood enters the tissue, the penis becomes turgid 
and erection is maintained because the veins leading blood away from 
the engorged tissue contract and prevent the blood from leaving. 
During copulation, a series of spasmodic muscular contractions, 
combined with peristaltic movements within the scrotal sac and along 
the epididymis, force sperm and seminal fluid through the narrow 
urethral opening in the glans penis. Stimulation of the sensory cells in 
the sensitive glans penis produces the reflex actions that initiate 
forceful ejection of sperm into the reproductive canal of the female 
mammal. 


Astrological background : 


Venus rules the sex life of a male (Mars in the case of females) 7" 
house/Venus rules the semen. Libra is the seat of the same. All these 


(281) 


govern the sex life, semen and marital happiness. When Libra, T° 
house, lord 7* and Venus are weak afflicted and badly situated, 
impotency may be seen. Mercury and Saturn are two impotent planets. 
Any connection of these two impotent planets, when they are malefics, 
with the above houses and planets is not good. Afflicted Mars, means a 
bad married life in the case of females. (Venus for males) 


Aphorisms of impotency and sterility: 


1. 
2s 


OO eal BONN 


Moon and Venus afflicted by Saturn or nodes. 
Mercury, Saturn in 8" 
Moon or Mercury in 8 and Moon under papakartari yoga. 


Saturn in 6” or 12" in a watery sign, and devoid of benefic 
aspects, the native will be eunuch. 


Weak and powerless Moon in 7" house. 
7" lord in 6" with Venus. 
Saturn in 6/8 house from Venus causes impotency. 


Serious afflictions on the 9% house cause impotency. 7” lord 
should also be afflicted. 


Example 66. Case of Impotency : DOB 23.2.1980, 21=58 hrs, Delhi. 
Libra Lagna; Aquarius Ketu, Saturn, Sun; Pisces Venus; Taurus 
Moon; Leo Mars (R), Jupiter (R), Rahu; Virgo Saturn(R) 


When there is either retrograde Saturn or 
retrograde Mars in the 12" house, the 
native spins like a wheel. His 12" lord 
Mercury and 5th lord Saturn have 
exchanged places. Libra is aspected by 
Ketu, 7" house is aspected by Rahu, 7" 
lord is afflicted by 6" lord Jupiter (R) and 
Rahu, Venus is placed in 6" in direct 
opposition to Venus. These inauspicious 


(282) 


planetary configuration generated impotency during Rahu Moon dasa 
in 2006. When 6* Jord is retrograde and its angles are occupied by 
malefics such a native suffers from many litigations in life. Rahu and 
Mars are conjoined with 6" lord Jupiter. Exchange of 5m lord with 12" 
lord has generated Dainya yoga. The people born in Dainya Yoga (See 
Astrology Nectar P 33 by Dr. S. S. Chatterjee) will be wicked and mean 
minded and will commit sinful acts. They will suffer at the hands of 
their enemies (or diseases) and speak harshly. They do not have balance 
of mind. There will be several impediments to all their undertakings. 
Prophecies of sages came true in his life. He is pulled down by the 
dreaded enemy impotency. 


Example 67. No sex with wife : DOB 3-4-1966, 4=30 PM, Delhi. Leo 
Lagna, Moon, Pluto, Uranus; Scorpio Ketu; Aquarius Saturn, Venus, 
Mercury (R); Pisces Mars, Sun; Taurus Rahu; Gemini Jupiter. 


This is the horoscope of an impotent man 
who got married in Feb 1994(Mars Ketu 
dasa) as per the wishes of his parents. He 
never disclosed about his impotency to 
anybody before marriage. When 
yogakaraka of any Lagna is placed in 

678"V12" house, such a native entertains Mer Vein ; 
destructive thinking. Sun, Mars aspected aN 
by Ketu in 8" house produced only 

scandals and defarmation for him. 7” lord 

Saturn has conjoined with retrograde Mercury in 7". 7” house and 
Venus are squared by Rahu Ketu axis. Libra is aspected by deadly 8" 
lord, weak Venus, and their contact with impotent planet, made the 
native impotent. We are astonished to observe the wisdom of our sages. 
The couple met me in 11-01-1997 for solution. He also suffers from 
frequent stomach unsets and pains in the stomach. Afflicted Mercury 
with 6" lord produced crams in stomach. Rahu-Ketu in the angle of.6" 


lord produced litigations in life. If there is any benefic planet in the 11" 
house, the native gets relief from litigations. Jupiter in 11" did not allow 


(283) 


his wife to abandon him. Ruby, Pearl and red coral suggested by me 
provided some relief to the couple. Mars and Moon are the significators 
of blood. When blood enters the spongy tissue on the penis, it become 
rigid and straight. So strong Mars and strong Moon with the help of 
Gems Therapy helped the couple immensely. 


Pain management (Slipped disc and backache): 


Buried in the skin, in muscle, and in the various tissue and organs of the 
human body, are sensory receptors of many kinds. These in the outer 
parts of the body are receiving information about the outside world are 
referred too an exteroceptors, those within the body and receiving 
information about the interior of body are interoceptors. All the various 
types of receptors are alive in that they translate stimulates of same kind 
into electro-chemical nerve impulses. The simplest type of receptor is 
the one for pain, since it consists merely of fine branches radiating from 
nerve endings. It is estimated that there are some three million pain 
receptors in the skin and a further million scattered elsewhere in the 
body. In a few areas of the body such as cheek and back of the neck, 
there are very few pain receptors. There are no pain receptors in the 
brain itself. Pains and aches do arise in muscles for a variety of reasons; 
they also may appear to arise in muscles, when in fact, they originate: 
elsewhere. Pain in a joint in the spine, for instance, may be referred to 
muscles nearby or sometimes same distance away. Back pain and 
slipped disc are now becoming more or more common. It is a disease 
mainly in the spinal column. The backbone is a column of 25 bony 
units, the vertebrae balanced on top of each other. Jointed together by 
bony processes and ligaments and separated by shock absorbers, the 
"discs" is or in the plumber's language, the washers. Running through 
the center of backbone from the brain to the pelvis is the spinal cord, a 
length of sensitive nerves. The spinal cord runs like a thick snake of 
bones to different muscles, joints, many organs and other tissues, it has 
to serve. The ligaments and other structures running from bone to bone 
in the spinal column and well supplied with nerves are exceptionally 
sensitive to stretching pressure and tearing. The spinal cord is an 


(284) 


extension of central nervous system (CNS) which consists of brain and 
spinal coard. It begains at the bottom of the brain steam and ends in the 
lower back. A slipped disc is caused when the padding of thick fibre 
between the various vertebrae the separate bones of the spine gets out 
of place and the bones themselves rub against each other, this padding 
is popularly known as disc. When this happens, that is when the disc 
has slipped from its position and the bones rub against each other, the 
pain is excruciating. The common causes a) Stress b) Faulty posture 
c) Injuries or sprains d) Degenerative changes. A very high percentage 
of pain at the back of neck and shoulders and also low backaches are 
due to tension. Some people get a backache whenever they have to face 
a difficult problem. Faulty postures often lead to a backache and so do 
extra soft mattresses. Sitting in a car for hours or Over-comfortable, 
soft, padded executive chairs and sofas. When one lifts heavy objects 
such as gas cylinder slipped disc may be there. Never carry big 
suitcases after 40, hire a coolie for doing your job. The different terms 
used regarding lesions related to spine are: Spondylosis, 
Osteoarthrosis, Osteroarthritis, Osteoporosis etc. 


Howto avoid slipped disc and backache: 


1. The best way to prevent a backache and a slipped disc is to do 
exercises which strengthen the back. Walking is a useful exercise 
to keep the back in trim as it exercises the back muscles. Another 
good exercise is to sit on one's heels with one's back as straight as 
possible and then to stand upright and come down again on one's 
heels. This exercise should be done about 15 times a day; it is 
excellent for strengthening to back. 


2. a) Boil garlic with mustered oil till the garlic becomes brown. 
Rub this at the back to provide you a positive result b) Use a 
heating pad or hot water bottle to ease the pain. Your can also try 
acold compress with on ice pack to get some relief c) Garlic is a 
great remedy for backache. Having two or three cloves of garlic 
every morning may give you the required result d) Drink tea 


(285) 


mixed with pepper, cloves and ginger twice a day e) Massaging 
eucalyptus oil or mustard oil is also very god for backache 
problem f) Make a concoction by boiling 20-30 Tulsi leave in 
one cup of water. Keep boiling till the water is reducing to half. 
Once this mixture is cooled add salt and consume it everyday. If 
suffering from severe backache, have it twice aday g) Mix half 
a gram of cinnamon powder to one teaspoon honey and eat this 
mixture at least twice a day for best results h) Another way to 
reduce acute lower back problem is to get a good number of laps 
in a warm poo] of water i) Taking aspirin with cola can remove 
backache, headache etc. caffeine is the stimulant in coffee, tea 
chocolate and soft drinks (Pepsi, Coca cola etc). Anacin, Bayer 
select, 500 mg acetaminophen; Excredin, 500 mg are popular- 
painkillers. Chocolates are also excellent, it prevents heart attack 
also. 


Astrological Background : 


Rahu and Saturn are well known for lingering the disease and pains. 
These are initiator of diseases. Overall nervous system of the body is 
controlled by Saturn, peripheral nervous system is controlled by 
Mercury. Strong lord of Lagna, Jupiter, Sun and Moon will provide 
terrible resistance for fighting away disease. 8 house is the house of 
immunity. The planetary positions that cause spinal arthritis are also 
responsive for these sciatica pains in the body. The term sciatica is 
loosely used for any aches or pains running one leg from the back to 
buttocks. This happens due to pressure on the nerves or irritation often 
by slipped disc. The sciatica nerve is the longest nerve in the body and 
its branches serve most part of legs. Damage to the lumbar disc and 
degenerative change in the lumber spine are the main causes. The spine 
is ruled by the sign Leo, the Sun and Neptune, and to an extent by 
Venus. Now we shall study a case history of sciatica pain. Taurus and 2n 
house rule the right leg, Pisces and 12” house govern the left leg. 


Example 68. Severe sciatica pain running down left leg from the 


(286) 


buttock : DOB 30/31-3-1949/5=26 AM/ Howrah. Pisces Lagna, 
Mars, Sun, Mercury, Venus; Aries Rahu, Moon; Gemini Uranus; 
Cancer Pluto; Leo Saturn (R), Libra Ketu; Capricorn Jupiter. 


Her Leo Aquarius (6"/12") axis is heavily 

afflicted. Leo is afflicted by Saturn and Laie! 0% 
Rahu; Aquarius is afflicted by Ketu and : 

Satum. The house of immunity 8th is 

occupied by Ketu but joint aspects of Mars 


and Saturn running her 8" house. For the <\ 
affliction of Pisces and 12” house severe 

pain started from buttock to lower left leg Va oN 
in Oct 2004 during Rahu- Saturn-Venus 


dasa. Look Rahu is her 2na house, Saturn is 


in the 5* house of the Zodiac (Leo), Venus is her 8m lord. She was bed 
ridden for the entire Rahu-Saturn dasa (dasa of two retrograde planets 
never bestow good results). Still in Dec. 2006, she has pain, though she 
has recovered magnificently through allopathic treatments. (Calcium 
injections) her husband is a GM of NTPC, Noida. Rahu Saturn or 
Saturn Rahu dasa is bad for 95% persons of the earth. According to . 
Vimalakanta Lahiri in his famous Vimsottori Dasa system book (P93 in 
Bengali), we find, if from a planet, its trinal houses are occupied by 
6°/8" Jord/Sun/Mars/or Saturn, during the dasa of the above planets and 
in the sub-period of the planet located in its trinal house, one suffers 
from disease, and gets fear at every steps of life. The native's father 
suffers mentally. This aphorism is stunningly true to the knowledge of 
the author. So her sufferings in life are agreement with astrological 
principles framed by our sages of yore. When 8* lord/8” houses are 
afflicted, one suffers at the hands of destiny. Her 8" lord is a combust 
planet and is afflicted in Lagna. 8” house is severely afflicted. Her 
Neptune is hemmed between malefics, Venus.is combust, Leo is 
occupied by Saturn, Saturn is afflicted by Rahu. Jupiter is the karaka of 
backache, which is debilitated and is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. All 
the unfortunate combinations produced sciatica. She was born in Savya 


(287) 


group A with balance Slyr 6m, Her 2m cycle started with Aries dasa 
from Sept 2000. As soon as Rahu appeared in Aries she was pulled 
down by the above dangerous disease. When Deha and Jeeva signs 
containing malefics are transited by malefics one suffers immensely in 
life. Dangers and downfalls are as sure as sunrise when Deha and Jeeva 
signs are occupied by malefics is transited by another natural malefic.. 
Aires is her Deha Rasi containing Moon and Rahu. In KCD Principles, 
the dasa lord should not suffer from placement related blemishes. Here 
we find Dasa lord of Aries Mars has landed in the 12h house from its 
natal position. So Aries dasa pulled her down completely as per KCD 
principles. Dasa of a sign occupied nodes produces grief in life. She 
opened her life with Cancer 4yr-6m-0d Leo, Virgo, Libra passed away 
peacefully. In March 1985, Rahu entered Aries, but did not pull her 
down, because the dasa lord of Scorpio, Mars is placed in the 5" house 
‘from its sign in Lagna. During dasa of a planet in KCD principle, a 
native suffers when its moves to 3“/6"/8"/12" from its natal position. 
KCD principles are more accurate compared to Vimsottori in 
forecasting the dooms day of life. 


APPENDICITIS 


Where the small intestine enters the large intestine there is a blind sac, 
and off this is a little finger like projection called the appendix. 
Sometimes food becomes trapped in its cavity and an infection results 
called appendicitis. In appendix through an operation in the lower 
abdomen. If the vermiform appendix bursts, it may invite death. It has 
no function in man, but assists in digestion of cellulose in herbivorous 
animals. In rabbit, the appendix is well developed and serves a useful 
function in digestion. So appendicitis is the inflammation of the 
yermiform appendix, Venus is the significator for appendicitis. It 
affliction is a pre-requisite for this disease (through Rahu, Ketu, Mars, 
Sun and Saturn). Contact of Mars/Sun in Virgo, Gemini or Taurus 
keeps this disease in latent from. There is no role of Moon on this 
disease. Either 6* house/ or 6" lord should be afflicted. We shall 


(288) 


examine three practical.cases for understanding this dangerous disease. 
Operation takes place surely when 6* house/or 6* lord is aspected Mars 
or Ketu and Mars is strong and afflicted in the birth chart. Virgo sign 
should also be influenced by Mars or Ketu. There should not be any 
malefic in the 6* house of Mars/Ketu for an operation free life. 


Example 69. Appendicitis operation in the middle age. : 
DOB 14-10-1941, 1=54PM IST, Calcutta. Capricorn Lagna, 
Aquarius Ketu; Pisces Mars (R); Taurus Satum (R) Jupiter (R), 
Cancer Moon; Leo Rahu; Virgo Sun; Libra Mercury; Scorpio Venus. 


The significator of appendicitis Venus is 
squared by Rahu Ketu axis and is 
aspected by 12" lord Jupiter and Saturn. 6h 
Lord Mercury in the house of Venus 
aspected by Mars and Ketu. Gemini is the 
6* house, Virgo is afflicted by Sun and 
Mars. Taurus is afflicted by Saturn and 12” 
lord Jupiter. When 6* house /6" lord are 
afflicted by Mars or Ketu, one is destined 
to have operation in the body. He went to 
Baroda on official job in March 1993 and had to work very hard under 
Sun at 45° 48° C temperature. On 19” March 1993 he had stomach pain 
and did not feel like eating anything. At 4 PM on the same day he visited 
one famous doctor near the railway station, who forced him to take 
admission-in a big hospital for the appendicitis operation. He never 
suffered from any disease upto March 1993. On 20.03.1993, operation 
took place at about 11 AM. He regained consciousness after 12 hours 
about in 12 PM mid night. Fatal dose of anesthesia forced him to remain 
unconscious even 12 hrs after operation. Many doctors, office 
colleagues were watching him helplessly. It took him about 4 months to 
recover from the shock of the operation. Though, appendicitis 
operation is a minor surgery, for the complications of his diseases, it 
took many hours by famous surgeons to complete the operation. Since 


(289) 


he was. an executive engineer, big personalities of his company were 
present at the time of operation. At least 20 colleagues were waiting 
anxiously. As per Vimsotteri dasa the operation took place during 
Saturn-Venus-Mercury dasa. As per KCD the operation took place 
during Cancer-Virgo dasa. Deha=Aquarius, Jeeva= Virgo. Deha rasi is 
occupied by Ketu. Jeeva Rasi is occupied by 8* lord Sun. On March 6, 
1993, Saturn arrived in Aquarius. An incident occurs, when a planet 
changes signs, retrogrades, or gets combusted. On 20* March at 5:30 
AM, Moon was in 9'29°43'. So Moon was also at Aquarius at the time of 
operation. Dangers and downfalls are as sure as sunrise when Deha or 
Jeeva sign containing malefics, are trasitted by other malefics. Moon 
was his 7* lord, a Marakesh planet Saturn was his 2™ lord, also a killer 
planet. Saturn- Venus dasa is bad for 95% persons. We see the role of 
Mercury as a sub-sub lord during the operation, where Mercury is the 
6n lord, ruler of all diseases. In KCD also Cancer Virgo dasa was in 
operation. As per Yogini, the operation took place at the end of 
Bhadrika (Mercury) dasa. On 23-3-1993, his Deha sign was squared by 
Ketu-Rahu axis. Ketu was transitting Taurus. So house of Venus and the 
planet Venus was under the influence of Ketu-Rahu axis. His 6* house 
and 6* lord are aspected by Mars and Ketu. So he was destined to have 
one operation. 


Example 70. Young age operation of Appendicitis 
DOB 11-6-1971, 1=17AM, Kolkatta. Pisces Lagna; Taurus Venus, 
Sun, Mercury, Saturn; Cancer Ketu; 
Sagittarius Moon; Capricom Mars; 
Rahu. 


Should a native start his life with dasa of 8* 
lord, things are not very much encouraging 
for him. He had to move to hostel at he age 
of 9, where he had to defend himself and 
was separated from his parents. Venus 
Ketu dasa proved very fatal for him. Venus 


(29) 


is his 8* lord, which is afflicted by Saturn, Sun. Antardasa lord Ketu is 

afflicted by Satum, Mars. Gemini is hemmed between malefics and 

Virgo is aspected by Rahu. His appendicitis operation took place in 

May 1983 during the above dasa. He lost his mother on 20-10-1983 

also at the same dasa. 6" lord is afflicted by 8"/12" lords, but 6* house is 
not spoiled by any malefic. Moon is not afflicted and it has generated 

Amala Yoga (unsullied benefic in 10") for him. Jupiter in 9* has been 

praised by our seers. Lord of Lagna in 9*, 5* lord Moon in 10"(benefic 
influence on both 9°/1 0* houses) made him a very intellectual genius. 

He is a famous CA of Calcutta. 10* lord in 9* has generated Khetra 

Simhasan Yoga. When 10* lord occupies tines/or quadrants, such a 

native becomes a famous man in his lifetime. As per KCD his sad 

incidents in life occurred during Cancer-Cancer dasa, because its lord 

has moved to the 6* place from its natal position. Any KCD dasa will 

bring some untoward incident in life when the sign lord moves to 

3/6/8/12 from its natal position. This aphorism is stunningly true to the 
knowledge of the author. When the 6* house is aspected by a malefic, 

particularly by Mars or Ketu and Mars is strong and afflicted there 

would be an operation. In both the examples (69,70) 6* houses are 

aspected by Mars. Mars is strong in both the horoscopes. 


Example 71. Appendicitis operation at the age of 12 : DOB : 6-6-77, 

15=45hrs/TN, 1 1°12'N. Libra Lagna; Capricorn Moon; Pisces Ketu; 
Aries Mars, Mercury, Venus; Taurus Sun, Jupiter; Cancer Saturn; 
Virgo Rahu. 


Here 6* house is occupied by Ketu; Virgo 
is afflicted by Rahu, Saturn, Gemini is 
hemmed between malefics. Mars is its 
own house is severely afflicted by Saturn, 
8* lord Venus, 12* lord Mercury. He had 
the appendicitis operation in Oct, 1997 
while he was passing Rahu Venus- Jupiter 
dasa. As per KCD he has Pisces as Jeeva 


(291) 


sign, Cancer as Deha sign. Both the houses are occupied by malefics. 
He is bom in Apasavya group B, 1“ Qtr. In Apasaya diagram, dasa of 
benefic planets are bad. 1 * cycle 44yrs 3m 15d. He opened his life with 
Tula dasa 9yr 3m_ 15 d. Then Kanya ruled him for 9 yrs. Dasa lord 
Mercury is a natural benefic planet and has moved to 8* place from its 
natal position. So Kanya dasa brought the tragedy through operation. If 
the Deha & Jeeva signs are occupied by Mars, Saturn, Rahu or Ketu and 
particularly 8* lord.(Read Twin 8* houses of zodiac by Dr. SS. 
Chatterjee), the native will suffer misfortunes étc. When bot:. Deha and 
Jeeva signs are occupied by malefics apprehension, calamity, wnguish, 
fear, great risk etc are indicated. 

Timing an operation: 

There are two types of diseases. Some diseases are cured easily through 
fasting, medicines, yoga and pranayam. But there are many diseases 
which are not cured easily. On has to take the help of surgeons. Piles, 
fishtula, Cancer, Gull Stones, removal of defective kidney, 
appendicitis, hernia, cataract, brain tumour, stomach tumour, stomach 
ulcers, heart diseases etc. are to be cured through operation only. There 
is a close relationship between diabetes and terrorism. They can be 
controlled but cannot be eliminated. If somebody meets, serious 
accidents one has to seek medical help in hospitals. All diseases are 
caused for the wrong: food habits, unhealthy living conditions, air 
pollutions, polluted water etc One should watch his health from the 
childhood. 500 mg_ of vitamin C per day keeps the body free from 
diseases. Eat two to three fresh fruits daily. Excess oil, butter, ghee, 
alcohol, tobacco, strong drugs like heroin, charas etc are to be avoided. 


Yogas for operation: 


6* house is the house of disease. Mars, Ketu, Virgo and 6n house of 
Janma Lagna are to be watched. When there are number of malefics in 
the 6* house, not aspected by benefics the native is destined to have an 
operation. Contact of Mars, Ketu on 6* house/6* lord is highly. 


(292) 


dangerous. If Mars/or Ketu aspects 6* house/6* lord/ Virgo, one may 
have operation yoga. Mars-Saturn in mutual angles also create 
operation yoga. When Mars is strong and afflicted operation has to take 
place. Probably it cannot be suppressed through medicines. 


Timing an operation : 


Life of the native is under great risk under knife of the surgeon. Many 
people are killed during the operation. My own friend Dr. Roy died in 
Apollo Hospital, in Delhi for the fault of the doctor (exp10). Doctors 
are also human beings. Mood and temperament, dedication of doctor 
decides the success of an operation. Certain adverse stars are also 
responsible for the causes of unsuccessful operation. In ancient India, 
Sushrata, a great sage and a surgeon used to determine the time of 
operation by observing the horoscope of the native. While the planetary 
positions give clue to the area of the body which is looking to bz 
affected by ill health, the. onset of the problem can be known by the 
Dasa or Antardasa or the planet occupying the 6* house. Should such a 
period coincide strongly with the transits of Saturn in the 1*, 2™, 12" (ie. 
during sade sati) or the 8* house from Moon (Asthama Yoga of Saturn), 
the indications became stronger. The author had appendicitis operation 
during asthama yoga of Saturn, I request the modern surgeons of the 
globe to follow the instruction of sages of India before performing an 
operation a) when Moon travels a particular sign (Moon Crosses a sign 
only in 2% days), operation of that limb, indicated by the sign should 
not be undertaken. Suppose Moon is passing Aries, avoid the operation 
of head. Suppose Moon is passing Taurus, avoid operation of eye, 
through Gemini avoid operation of throat. Suppose Moon is passing 
through Cancer or Leo, avoid the operation of heart, kidney, abdomen 
etc. When Moon passes through dual signs (Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, 
Pisces), operation should be avoided. When Moon passes through 
Ascendant, 6* house or in Scorpio an operation maybe unsuccessful. 
b) Operation should be avoided on Full moon and New moon days, if 
such operation takes place, the patient will lose terrible amount of blood 


(293) 


c) 5 days before Full moon and 5 days after New Moon day an 

operation should be performed. d) When Moon passes through Taurus, 

Leo, Aquarius and posited in a trinal house from Mars/Jupiter/or Venus 
the operation will be successful e) When Moon passes over natal 

Saturn or is passing through the opposite sign of Saturn the operation 

should be avoided, It has been observed that the patient dies for 

invisible germs from the knife, a scissor or any other instrument f) 

When Mars or Mercury is retrograde, the operation should be avoided. 
When Mars is retrograde, the patient will lose terrible amount of blood. 
When Mercury is. retrograde, the doctor makes silly mistakes during 

the operation. In many cases, the doctor. leaves behind his scissor or a 

piece of bandage or cotton inside the stomach during stitching. So the 

patient may die for the silly mistakes of the doctor. Mercury govems 

intelligence, so during retrogression days the doctor may be under 

stress and strain for the invisible celestial planetary forces. g) One 

should consider the strength of Lagna and Lagna lord at the time of 

operation. Mars should be strong, and should not pass through the 8m 

house of Janma Lagna. Lord of Ascendant and Lord of Lagna should 

not be placed in 6°/8"/12” houses on the day of operation. h) When 

Mars is afflicted in transit, the operation of brain and fractures will not 

be successful. When Mercury is afflicted, skin grafting operations 

should be avoided, when Jupiter is afflicted liver operation should be 

avoided, if Venus is afflicted, kidney operation; when Satu is 

afflicted, slipped disc or spine related operation should be avoided. i) 

Moon-Mars combination, or when Moon is opposite to Mars in transit, 
the operations should be avoided. When Moon and Mars are posited in 
a watery sign huge blood loss occurs. My highly qualified friend and 

his engineer son are quack astrologers. They had little knowledge in 

astrology. Though I was available in Delhi they did not feel the 

necessity to consult me for fixing the operation day. Please see the 

horoscope No. 10. Transit on 5-11-2005. Taurus Lagna; Saturn 

Cancer; Virgo Ketu; Libra Sun 18 Jupiter 8; Scorpio Moon, Mercury; 

Sagittarius Venus; Pisces Rahu; Aries Mars(R) 


(294) 


On the fateful day of brain operation (5-11 -2005) Mars was retrograde 
in the 12* hose, Moon was passing Scorpio, 8* lord was combust, lord 
of Lagna Janded in 8m, there is an exchange between 6",8" lords. Saturn 
and Mars were exchanging aspects. Aries was heavily afflicted, Wise 
astrologers could have advised him to postpone the day of operation. 
Mars was retrograde upto 10-12-2005. If anybody knows astrology he 
will definitely not agree to the above day of operation. Retrograde Mars 
in Aries in highly afflicted condition; lagnesh was in 8*, Moon was in 
Scorpio, combust 8 lord, debilitated 5* lord, afflicted 9* lord all 
accelerated his moment of death. The native died on 7-11-2005 when 
Moon moved to Sagittarius, in his 8* house. At the time of death, 3:4 
lord, 8" lord were squared by Rahu-Ketu axis, 3ra house was heavily 
afflicted, 8* lord was combust in aspect to 7°/12" lord Mars from the 
transit in Aries. The author strongly believes doctors killed him 
because they were in great hurry in collecting the money, and forced the 
native for the operation. A good astrologer could have saved his life for 
a few years. On the fateful day of operation Moon was not in the trinal 
house from Mars, Jupiter or Venus. We shall now study a few other case 
histories of operations. 


Example 72. Multiple surgery cases : DOB 19-1-1936, 9=10PM, 
Mumbai. Leo Lagna, Neptune; Scorpio Moon 7-17, Venus, Jupiter; 
Sagittarius Rahu; Capricorn Mercury, Sun; Aquarius Saturn, Mars; 
Aries Uranus; Gemini Ketu, Cancer Pluto (source AM, Feb 2002 P 
229) 


When 5/11" axis is vitiated one suffers ee ers 
from many dangerous diseases. 6 lord 
Saturn has conjoined with Mars, Lagna is 

not aspected by a single benefic and it is 3 

aspected by three dreaded malefics Rahu, 


Saturn, Mars. These dreaded yogas Raho 
generated many disease in the body. a 
Malefics in Kendra make the body 


(295) 


susceptible to attack from many diseases. His Virgo is afflicted by 
Mars. 6* housé/ Virgo signs are influenced by Mars or Ketu, such a 
native has to undergo many operations in life. When 8* lor‘dis afflicted, 
one suffers at the hands of destiny. His 8* lord is influenced by 
debilitated 12* lord Moon and by the violent 10* aspect of Satum 
carrying the influence of Mars. 6* lord's aspect on Jupiter is a grisly 
combination and is to be feared. God writes only sad episodes about a 
person, whose Jupiter is weak in the horoscope. Indeed his Jupiter is 
weak planet. It is debilitated in Navamsa. He opened his life with 
Saturrt dasa I3y-4m-I4d. According to Santhanam, dasa of 11" lord is 
highly malefic in nature. In Oct, 1952, at the age of 16 he was hit by an 
electric pole of the railway track, while he was trying to guess the 
railway station, leaning away from the door. Luckily, it was a minor 
accident (Mercury-Ketu dasa). Saturn was transiting Virgo, Jupiter was 
transiting Aries, Rahu was in Capricorn. Saturn was influencing his 8* 
lord Jupiter in Scorpio. Aspect of Jupiter in Lagna from transit.saved 
him. Ketu while transiting his 12* house, put him to hospital. In Aug 
1961 he suffered from TB (Mercury-Jupiter dasa). And in Aug 65 he 
underwent surgery for piles (Mercury-Saturn dasa). At that time Satum 
was transiting Aquarius, Jupiter was in his Deha sign Gemini 
containing Ketu. Ketu was transiting through Scorpio. During 67-69, 
he suffered from acute pain between the calves going towards ankles. 
When Leo and Saturn are afflicted one suffers from acute pain for the 
spinal problem. Spine is controlled by Leo and the significator of 
central nervous system is Saturn. Saturn and Mars are spoiling Leo and 
Aquarius axis. Afflictions of 7°/8" lords, Libra and Scorpio (7* & 8* 
house of the zodiac) generated piles for him. He underwent surgery for 
appendicitis on 30.1.1997. Ketu and Saturn was in rapt conjunction in 
Pisces on the fateful day (his 8* house). He was passing Sun-Satum 
dasa in Jan 1997. Afflicted Virgo by Mars, Ketu in Gemini generated 
appendicitis. From 9-1-1998 (Sun-Ketu dasa) he is suffered from 
cervical spondylysis, which continued intermittently. In Oct 1993, he 
had stone in kidney (Sun Moon dasa). He suffered mainly in Mercury, 


(296) 


Ketu and Sun dasa. Ketu and Sun Dasa are bad for 80% persons. 
Mercury is his 2"/1 1* lord. So he suffered immensely during Mercury 
dasa. During entire Venus dasa June 1973 June 93) he remained free 
from diseases. Dasa of 10* lord always brings happiness in life. He is 
suffering at the fag end of life from acute backache for his afflictions of 
Leo and Saturn. Debilitated 12* lord, brought sufferings for him. 
Spondylysis is a disease of the spine which generates terrible backache. 
Ihave already written (Read Adhi Yoga in Astrology Nector by Dr. SS. 
Chatterjee) unfortunate persons are bom with Satum Mars 
combination in the 7* house. They are pulled down by enemies. He was 


born with Apasaya group B, 2° quarter, Deha = Gemini, Jeeva = 
Taurus. He opened his life with Aries 8y 2m5d. Sagittarius, Capricorn, 
Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, followed in the 1" cycle. 2™ cycle 
opened with Gemini on 24-3-1994. At present in 2007 he passing 
Taurus dasa. People born in Apasaya diagram suffer from many 
diseases and enemies. In his case several diseases in his body turned 
out to be his bitter enemies. I shall show another example where the 
native underwent many surgical operations for heart, kidney and lastly 
for cancer in abdomen. 6* house Mars in aspect to Rahu created hovoc 
in his life. He died on 6-12-2004 (DOB 23-12-1939, 10=00 AM, 
Maimansingh. Virgo Lagna; Libra Rahu; Scorpio Mercury; 
Sagittarius Sun' Capricom Venus; Aquarius Mars; Pisces Jupiter; 
Aries Saturn, Moon, Ketu. He was the GM of PDIL, Noida). 

Example 73. Six places of stomach . 
removed :DOB 1-7-1955/11=59 PM/ 
Lucknow Pisces Lagna, Taurus Mercury, 
Venus; Gemini Sun, Ketu Cancer Mars, 
Jupiter, Libra Satum, Scorpio Moon; 
Sagittarius Rahu.. 


He is a GM of a famous newspaper | 
company of Delhi. The stomach has been |. 
assigned to the fifth house. Leo of Zodiac 


(297) 


represents heart and also stomach. Sun is the main significator of 
stomach, so also the heart. Here 6* lord is with Ketu and there is Saturn 
Mars combination in mutual angles. So he was destined to have an 
operation. His 5” house is heavily afflicted by debilitated Mars 
aspected by Saturn. 5* lord is debilitated and is hemmed between 
malefics. There is exchange of Moon and Mars (5/9 lords) which has 
generated a class 1 Raja Yoga for him. Moon Mercury-Venus in mutual 
angles have generated the famous Mudrika Yoga (Advanced Predictive 
Astrology Vol. 2 by Dr. S.S. Chatterjee). Afflicted 5* house/5* lord, 
Sun, and affliction of Leo by Rahu produced stomach tumours 
(Cancer) in May 2006 during Venus-Saturn-Moon dasa. The operation 
was carried out on ]0-6-2006 during the same dasa and sixth places of 
stomach has been removed for making him disease free. He lost 18 kg 
in July 2006 for the impact of operation. Saturn in 6* generated 
longevity to him. Venus is his 8* lord. Dasa of 8* lord is always bad. 
Venus-Saturn dasa is peculiar to 95% persons. He suffered during the 
dasa of 8* lord, 12* lord and 5* lord (as pratyantar dasa lord). We should 
be grateful to our sages for developing so many golden rules for the 
benefit of mankind. Strong 4* lord did not generate heart diseases. For 
heart disease 4* /5* house and their lords, Leo and Aquarius should be 
afflicted. 


Example 74. Removal of Large Intestine : DOB 28-6-1966/ 
6=29AM/Bhatinda. Gemini Lagna, Sun, Jupiter; cancer-Mercury; 
Libra- Moon; Scorpio Ketu; Pisces: 
Saturn; Taurus Venus, Mars, Rahu. 


This is the horoscope of a rich 
businessman of Noida. He has Ketu in 6* 
house in opposition of Mars. 6* lord Mars 
is afflicted by Rahu and Saturn. He 
enjoyed Saturn Sun dasa during 19-11- 
1999 to 1-11-2000, during Saturn-Sun- 
Rahu dasain Feb 2000, his large intestine 


(298) 


was removed for the stomach ulcer. Dasa of planets in square position is 
always bad (Advanced Predictive Astrology, Vol. 2 by Dr. S'S. 
Chatterjee) Rahu in 12" or 8* is a liability for any native. The stomach 
has been assigned to fifth house and Leo. Leo is aspected by Mars 
carrying the evil influencer of Rahu and Saturn. 5" lord Venus is heavily 
afflicted by Mars, Rahu and Saturn. Uranus and Pluto damaged his Leo 
sign. Sun is the star of Rahu which is a bitter enemy of Sun. so all these 
unfortunate planetary configurations was about to kill him during 
Saturn-Sun dasa. Sun has joined with two Kendra lord Jupiter. Here 
Jupiter is suffering from Kendra Adhipati Dosha. 7* lord Jupiter 
transferred Marakesh power to Sun. Strong Saturn saved his life. 
Longevity is controlled by Saturn, and 8* house of Saturn. Moon in the 
8* house of Saturn, granted bonus point to Saturn. When Sun and Moon 
are aspected by Jupiter one does not die at a very young age. Strong 
Lagna, strong Sun, strong Moon, strong Lagnesh made him a very 
wealthy man of the society. 


Summary of onset of serious illness foroperation: 


1. Period of lords of 6",8", J 2*, 2na, 1] * 

2. Period of malefic plaents like Saturn or Mars, especially when 
they are connected with Lagna or Lagna lord. 

3. Period of planets associated with Rahu. 

Period of heavily afflictedplanets in the chart. 

5. Dasa of two retrograde planets bring serions diseases.(see exp. 
10) 

6. Examine KCD dasa system. Dasa of the sign lord which has 
travelled to 3/6/8/12 from its natal position, brings diseases. 
When Deha and Jeeva signs are occupied by malefics, transit of 
other malefics on them produces diseases. Sub-period of 6* lord 
is the ideal time for the identification of disease producing 
periods of life. The author suffered during Cancer-Virgo dasa, 
where Moon is posited in its own house (he has Capricorn 
Lagna). Moon is afflicted by the 3" aspect of Saturn from Taurus. 


(299) 


An unaffiliated planet and strong in vargabala will never produce 
any disease. 

7. _Kendras should be occupied by malefics for producing multiple 
operations in the body or 6* house should be heavily afflicted by 
Mars or Ketu. Virgo should be aspected by Ketu or Mars. 

8.  Malefics in 6* house and strong but afflicted Mars will invite 
operations in the body. 

9. Cam one avoid an operation? 


The uses of astrology are infinite but it lacks the glamour and 
sophistication that go with high tech medicines and surgery and 
therefore, is often not taken recourse to before making a major decision 
regarding health and surgery. But in those cases where astrological help 
has been sought, results have been gratifying not only helping the 
patient to avoid wrong surgery, unnecessary surgery but also in 
choosing the right time of treatment. While the planetary position give 
a clue to the area of the body which is likely to be affected by ill health, 
the onset of the problem can be known by the Dasa-Antardasa or the 
planet occupying, ruling or aspecting 6” house, should such a period 
coincide strongly with the transits of Saturn in the 1",2™ or 12” or 8n 
housé from Moon, the indications becomes stronger. If the indication 
for a disease is not very strong, then as the antardasa finishes and as the, 
Moon frees it self from malefic transits the diseases will automatically 
reduce or get eliminated by itself. Recourse to surgery and other forms 
of drastic treatment becomes reductant. Moon in 6* house afflicted by 
another malefic will produce ulcer in the abdomen. Such people should 
avoid hot, oily, spicy food. By controlling clean food habits and a 
regular time maintained for eating can avoid many dangerous diseases. 


EPILEPSY 


More than 2 million North American have some form of epilepsy, 
recurrent seizure triggered by abnormal electrical impulses in the brain, 
during which the person fall down and is seized by convulsive 
movements. It is an affection of the nervous system characterized by 


(300) 


attacks of unconsciousness with or without convolutions. Very young 

children suffer from this mysterious disease and can faint without prior 
warming. Modem doctors are helpless in front of this mighty disease. 

Our Vedas and shastras have clarified one thing: 


TT TAS SMT SIT TAT | 
A Mifer street yooty Stra: 1 


meaning that the main consideration in determining diseases their 
origin and remedy should be to keep in mind that accumulated sins in 
the previous births take the form of disease. The modem ideas tell the 
sole cause of diseases is unprincipled eating or bad habits. For example 
taking raw vegetables (Cabbage, Carrot, radish etc), some bacteria 
may travel to the brain and may cause epilepsy. So it is better not to give 
salad to small children. Foods and vegetables should be boiled, before 
given to the children for eating or drinking. Unprocessed pork and beef 
causes epilepsy. Ancient astrological works have divided all the 
diseases in the divisions" as arising from wrath (baddha) or tridosha 
(three humoral maladjustment) viz vata, pitta, kapha. An astrologer 
may be perhaps the most competent person who can analyses the 6* and 
the 8* houses primarily to find out the root cause of any disease. If the 
6n house or its lord is seriously afflicted and if the lord of the 6* house or 
the malefic planet dispositing the lord of 6n is more powerful than the 
lord of 8* or the dispositor, the illness is due to wrath (baadha). Should 
however, the 8* house and its lord'be afflictedbadly and its lord more 
powerful than the lord of 6* or the malefic dispositor of that house, the 
illness is due to tridosha. In respect of diseases arising out of wrath 
(baadha). 5°/9" houses and their lords play a vital role. Wrath is again 
classified as deva baddha, sharpa baadha, shaapa baddha(curse), preta 
(ghost) baddha, Drishti (evil eye) baddha and Astaadasa (8) graha 
(planetary) baadhas. Epillepy is usually considered as one of the 
baadha rogas or diseases arising out of wraths, for the sins committed 
in the previous life. Even proper diet is unable to cure Epilepsy. 


(301) 


Aphorisms of Epilepsy: 


1. Ascendant lord in 6"/8"/12" in the company of Rahu, Satur or 
Mars. 


2. Saturn or Rahu or both are in the 8* and malefics (even 
functional) occupy the 5m or the 9n free from beneficial aspect. 
Moon is also afflicted. 


The sun or Mars in 8" in the constellation of Venus or Saturn. 
Moon, Mars and Saturn in the 8” house: 

Moon and Saturn in 8" aspected by Mars. 

The Moon and Rahu in Lagna, with malefics in Trines. 


SU Oy ie eB 


When Lagna, lord of Lagna, Mercury which is Trines. Karaka for 
nerves, the Moon karaka for mind all are afflicted this disease 
may occur. 


Example 75. Epilepsy in infant days: DOB 28-11-1942/ 
=02AM/Bankura(WB). Scorpio Sun, Mercury, Venus; Aquarius 
Ketu; Taurus Saturn (R), Cancer-Jupiter (R), Moon; Leo Rahu; Libra 
Mars. 


He was bom with retrograde Satum's dasa 
lly-Im-17d. He suffered from epilepsy 
from the age 3 to 8 yrs. All the kendrasa are 
occupied by malefics generating Sarpa 
Yoga a yogafor ill health. Both 5°/9" lords 
are aspected by Saturn. He lost his father 
when he was 2% yrs old. Deva kopa is the 
reason of his epilepsy. He did not have any 
good career for the conjunction of 8" and 
10h lords in direct aspect of Saturn. His 
Lagna, lord of Lagna, Mercury, Moon all are afflicted which 
contributed the growth of epilepsy. He lost his job in 1983 and his 
illustrious wife is maintaining the family. Strong Moon Jupiter 


(302) 


combination in the 9n helped him to recover from dangerous diseases. 


Example 76. A case of epilepsy from childhood : DOB 26-12-89/ 
3=45PM/Delhi. Taurus Lagna, Gemini Jupiter, Cancer Ketu; Scorpio 
Moon, Mars; Sagittarius Satum, Sun, Capricom Mercury, Rahu, 


= cn 
yee 
SEN 


He is the son of an advocate of Delhi and is 
suffering from epilepsy from the age of 2, 
even in 2007 Jan his problems are not over. 
He is studying only in class IX in 2007. He 
was bom with balance Mercury dasa | lyr- 
Qm-24d. Since Mercury is an infant planet 
(less than 1°) and is afflicted by 6m lord 
Venus and Rahu. this dasa brought 
sufferings in the form of epilepsy. Ketu 
dasa also pulled him down because its 
dispositor is debilitated. His 4m lord Sun and 9 lord Satu are hemmed 
between malefics. 9” house is afflicted by Rahu-Ketu axis. So for the 
Deva kopa he is suffering in this life. Mercury, Moon, Lagna, lord of 
Lagna are all afflicted, which added fuel to the fire. ~: 


SCHIZOPHRENIA 


Several types of schizophrenia exist, but all fall under the broad 
category of ‘psychotic disorder’, meaning the patient is not in touch 
with reality in one or more ways. Patients are seldom, if even, cured of 
this severe mental illness, but a number of medications can improve 
symptoms. Recent research have revealed that anxiety disorders 
including depression were 25% more common in the obese people 
studied than in the non-abese (TOI, 6-7-2003 P 29). Smoking is a 
healthy game for schizophrenic persons, has beneficial physiologic 
effects and improves thinking ability, Bruce N. Roger said, modem 
medicine knows of no knowledge for the cause of schizophrenia and 
puts it down to a mix a heredity, behaviour and other factors. With the 
help of astrology it is very easy matter to diagnose such a disease before 


Sun Ura 


(303) 


any damage of one's own life or another's is caused. Actually Moon 
controls mind, its affliction with other malefics cause schizophrertia. 4ih 
house also controls mind. Schizophrenia is a disease of mind and 
patients can make the life of others hell. Schizophrenia ladies are 
dangerous.They desert their husbands apparently for no reason. I shall 
discuss two such horoscopes (exp. 77, 78). Approximately one-third of 
those suffering from schizophrenia exhibit paranoid systems. They 
suffer from over suspiciousness, delusions of persecution or false or 
irrational beliefs that they are being cheated, conspired against, 
harassed, victimized or poisoned. Their fears may focus on one or more 
family member or colleagues depending on the affliction on the chart. 
When their demands are not met, they shout at the person expressing 
his/her much anger on the matter. Out moral character is controlled by 
Jupiter, Venus, Sun and 4m lord/4" house. A man who has Jupiter 
powerful will be trustworthy. Strong Sun makes the native proud with a 
noble mind. He will always oppose to all under had action and covert 
deals. In Nadir (4* house) it causes the first part of life in troubles of 
various kinds arising out of the family or health. In zenith (10" house) it 
gives the greater sense of dignity and love of imposing power. The 
native develops strong common sense and practical character with 
executive ability Mars causes the fall and Venus recovers from falling. 
A person who has strong Venus is bluntly different from others. He 
embodies noble qualities. Lord of Ascendant in combination with 
benefics and beneficial aspects posited in 4" shows a straight forward 
nature: Purity of heart is indicated by a benefic planet or by a planet in 
the exaltation or in a friendly sign and.the sign in the 4" belongs to a 
benefic, the man has a mind without deceit or hypocrisy. A person may 
appear to be good. and reliable externally but dishonest and crocked at 
heart if Rahu falls in the 4” house, aspected by a another malefic. The 
same result is indicated by the presence of more than one malefic in the 
4", Dishonesty and crocked nature are also evidenced by the lord of 10” 
aspected by another malefic falling in the 4m or by the lord of 8* in 
combination with a malefic and aspected by a malefic occupying the 


(304) 


4". Schizophrenic persons are unfortunate persons, they must have 
weak Moon and weak Jupiter. Therefore, in all cases of schizophrenia, 
the most important affliction comes from Rahu or Ketu, the shadowy 
planets, that have a blurring effect on the planets involved and therefore 
on their significations. Deva Gan persons are the superior persons of 
the society. They always come up in life (constellation 
1,5,7,8,13,15,17,22,27). They talk in a sweet manner. Manushya Gan 
(2,4,6,11,12,20,21,25,26) people are timid in nature, and they become 
the victim of schizophrenia. Rakshasa Gana _ nakshtra 
(3,9,10,14,16,18,19,23,24)' produce mindset that are constantly 
stressed up making it hard for one to live with them. They can also 
produce compulsive obsessive disorder. They can be excessively 
demanding and dominating, this urge springing from a deep rooted 
inferiority complex that continually prompts them, to say or do things 
that they are superior to others. 


Aphorisms of schizophrenia : 


a. The Moon is with Rahu or Ketu and the 4* house is with Rahu or 
Ketu and the 4" house from ascendant or the Moon sign also has 
Nodal affliction direct or indirect severe and chronic condition 
of schizophrenia, In the direct case Rahu-Ketu passes fourth 
house from Lagna or Moon. In the indirect case Ascendant lord, 
4" Jord from Ascendant or Moon are afflicted by Rahu or Ketu. 


b. | The.Moon is in a nodal constellation with Rahu or Ketu and the 
fourth house from the ascendant or the Moon sign also has a 
nodal affliction direct or indirect severe and chronic condition. 


c. The Moon is in a nodal constellation and 4 house. from the 
Ascendant or the Moon sign also has nodal affliction direct or 
indirect less severe. 


d. The Ascendant or its lord has nodal affliction; The 4* house from 
the Moon sign or from the ascendant has nodal affliction direct 
or indirect less severe but recurring. Our desires spring out from 
5* house. If the schizophrenic chart with nodal affliction to the 


(305) 


Moon suffers from affliction to the 5* house from a planet other 
than Sun. 1. Jupiter Delusions of scholarship, fame, spirituality 
mad unhealthy hankering for money and importance overtake the 
mind 2. Saturn Malice and excessive levels of jealousy can 
erupt due to self pity. springing from intolerance of another's 
looks, fame, learning, status, position, acquisitions or level of 
happiness. It can also spring from an extreme morbid pettiness 
that one may be suffering from has not happened to someone else 
and from constantly wishing that the same adversity befall the 
cither. 3, Mars Avarice, vindictiveness-and unrealistic avels of 
greed and a mad urge to dominate and control lead to violent rage 
and anger. 4. Venus Sexual frustration due to disappointment, 
rejection or incapacity. 5. Mercury Fear, cowardice and 
spinelessness leading to anxiety, depression and other morbid 
states of mind. It also helps fantasizing. 6. Moon Lunacy, simple 
and plain. Such afflicted Moon or Mercury. or both the Moon and 
Mercury in the 5" house one often found in the charts of those 
suffering from hallucinations or hearing voices or seeing ghosts. 
The afflictions to the planets, influencing the 5* by aspect or 
occupation can be due to 8h house lordship, retrogression, 
combustion or association of malefics or a papakartari yoga 
around the 5" house: When Mars afflicts the nodal axis, tere can 
be a dangers of violent behaviour verbal or physical and it is 
most likely to directed to family members. Mars with Moon 
Rahu combine produce violent reactions physical and verbal. 
However, if Mars is in the 10" from such a Moon, it is a balancing 
constructive influence that works against making the condition 
chronic Venus with node afflicted Moon reduces the 
maleficence of the affliction. However, sexual delusions and 
fantasies could disturb the native. Moon Mars combination in 8h 
produces various types of diseases, repeated fevers, pleurisy, 
headache, migraine, thyroid trouble in declining years of life. 
Moon-Rahu in 8* produce homosexual or lesbian tendency. In 


(306) 


the positive side they become much rider than the financial status 
of the parents. When Moon-Ketu occupies 8” house it produces 
repeated disorder of digestive system. In addition when Saturn 
occupies 2nd, 4" or 12" house with Moon-Ketu in 8” there are 
chances of major surgery or amputation of a limb of the body. 
With Moon Rahu or Moon Satum in 12”, the individual likes to 
be separated from the wider family. If Moon is the 2™ house. 
Mars and Ketu in 8", it can produce leukemia or allied skin 
ailment. If Ketu in 8", Moon in 12”, it can give neurological 
trouble. 


Example 77. House breaking lady Violent Schizophrenic : 
DOB 8-11-1972/7=30AM/Delhi. Scorpio Mercury, Moon; Sagittarius 
Jupiter, Rahu; Taurus Saturn (R), Gemini Ketu; Virgo Venus; Libra 
Libra in the 12” house made her a mad 


Mars, Sun. 
Jup Rah . 
9 : 
dog. When 8"/12" houses are afflicted, 


scandals and defamation surface out. She was bom as a daughter of 
Sales Tax commissioner and raised with luxury. She was educated from 
English medium schools of Delhi. Her abnormality in behaviour was 
noticed during Mercury Moon dasa in 1984. She managed a BA degree 
and got married with a innocent CA of Delhi (the author knows her 
husband, when he was a kid, and warned him about his would be wife. 
DOB 9-6-1970; 5=27AM, Delhi) on 9-2-1999 during Ketu Saturn 
dasa. Ketu is in the star of Jupiter and Ketu is aspected by divine 5” lord 


She was born with a paisacha yoga which 
is a yoga for mental sickness and distorted 
perception. Moon-Mercury in mutual 
kendra, when both of them are afflicted, 
the evil yoga is generated. Her Moon and 
Mercury are in rapt conjunction, hemmed 
between malefics and is direct aspect from 
Saturn (R) in Taurus. Sun and Mars in 


(307) 


Jupiter. Marriage went on smoothly upto July 2000. As soon as Venus 
Venus dasa started, they became unhappy. The above woman deserted 
her husband and returned to her father's house. Her father immediately 
started a false allegations of torture, dowry, harassment etc. Afflicted 7” 
house, 8” house, 12” house, debilitated 7” lord did not allow her to live a 
descent life with husband. Guru Chandal yoga, Mars Saturn, Saturn 
Jupiter in 6/8 relationships, denied her real happiness of life. Her 
husband left for Dubai in Dec. 2000 with a lucrative job. Still in Dec. 
2006, the matter is in the court. 


Example 78. Schizophrenic man : DOB 2-10-1954, 5=30PM/Delhi: 
Pisces Lagna; Gemini Ketu; Cancer, Jupiter Virgo Sun; Libra Venus, 
Saturn, Mercury; Scorpio Moon; Sagittarius Rahu, Mars. 

He is an M.Sc. (Physics) and started his 
life as a bank employee. He got married in 
1982, but the wife left soon after 
pregnancy because he doubted about her 
character. That lady delivered a son and 
never returned to his house. They are 


fighting a divorce case since 1983. In net 
2006, the matter is in the court. He married pup 
secretly in 1990 during Venus-Rahu dasa Meee 


and got a daughter in 1992. He was 

suspended on 22-6-06, for insulting his auditors. But surprisingly, the 
suspension letter narrates that he took excess loan from the bank, 
which he should not have taken for the purchase of a flat. Ketu-Rahu 
axis is passing though 4"/10" axis,. 4" lord is in the 8" with 8m lord 
Venus, 12 lord Saturn. Moon is debilitated and is hemmed between j 
malefics. 10" house Rahu-Mars is aspected by Saturn. Three malefics 
in 10"brought a black spot in his career during Sun-Venus dasa. 8” lord 
in 8° grants poor career (read Twin 8n house of the Zodiac by Dr. SS. 
Chatterjee). 7” lord in 8m afflicted with Satu and Ketu ruined his 
marital happiness. Sun in 7* added fuel to the fire. Sun in 7” always 


(308) 


brings a rift in the married life. When there are number of malefics in 
10m such a native engages himself in wrong things of life. They are 
destined to do some bad work. His 2” wife does not talk to him for 
schizophrenic tendencies. 6 lord Sun's dasa brought disgrace in his 
career. Sun's dasa is bad for 95% persons of the society. His Jupiter is 
powerfully spoiled by the 10" aspect of Saturn’and 8h aspect of Mars. 
God only writes sad episode about a person whose Jupiter is found 
weak in the horoscope. So weak Jupiter produced so many ups and 
downs in life. He is a very unhappy soul for the bad planetary 
configurations. 


Example 79. Schizophrenia : DOB 18-10-1971: 10=40 AM, Sitapur, 
UP. Scorpio Lagna, Jupiter; Capricom Mars, Rahu; Taurus Satum 
(R), Cancer Ketu; Virgo Moon; Libra Sun, Mercury, Venus. 


Whenever 8" Jord joins Sun, such native's 
are deserted by their father. This aphorism 
is stunningly true to the knowledge of the 
author. When he was 1 yr old, his mother 
separated from his father and raised him 
alone in life. On 18-11-05 he met me for’ 
knowing his future, he was employed with 
a famous TV channel. He is married, 
having no kids. His 8" house is hemmed . 
‘between malefics and enjoyed Jupiter 
Mercury dasa between 18-1-05 to 24-4-07. I told him that he was 
passing through a bad phase of life, should be careful about his job. But 
on 6-5-06, he resigned after a minor quarrels with his senior. 10" lord 
Sun has conjoinédwith 8" lord Mercury and 12"lord Venus. 8" house is 
hummed between malefics. Mars Rahu in 3u made him a dare-devil 
man. 9h house is occupied by’Ketu aspected by Saturn. When 9" house 
is weak and afflicted one loses foresight: Saturn or Mars in 7” house 
crops up many enemies in life. Such a native's life becomes a cupful of 
sorrows (Astrology Nectar by Dr.S.S. Chatterjee; Read Adhi Yoga). 8" 


(309) 


house hemmed malefics brings scandals and infamy in life. Saturn and 
Sun are both debilitated in the navamsa. Two to three debilitated 
planets in the navamsa robs the merit of the horoscope. 


MENTAL ILLNESS (LUNACY) 


Insanity. is a mental disease. Some are bom as in sane persons, others- 
become lunatic under stress/strain of life. Lunatic persons are most 
hapless persons and lose the power of generating money. They also lack 
the power to defend themselves. The present level of astrological 
knowledge may not enable us to pinpoint whether one's insanity is due 
to the mental or brain disorder, though the cause can be guessed 
approximately. Mercury in the 5% afflicted by conjunction with Satum 
is indicative of some form of insanity appearing especially in Saturn's 
main period and Mercury's sub-period or vice versa. Insanity makes the 
mind restless and vacant, the vision becomes stable and actions become 
purposeless and incoherent. Vata, pitta, kapha are the main causes of 
diseases. During the dasa of a planet, if it is conjunction with a malefic, 
extremely weak or in an evil house, it will produce disease. If the dasa is 
of a benefic planet, the planet is well placed in various Vargas, the sub- 
period of an evil planet will not be able to produce disease seriously in 
that dasa. If it happens, it can be cured. House 6;8,12 and the planets 
associated with these house and their lords are productive of adverse 
results, they are particularly adverse in relation to health. 6m lord is the 
strongest disease producing planet. Insanity may be of ten different 
types; Melancholia, Mania, Hysteria, Epilepsy, Schizophrenia, 
Amnesia, Idiocy, Perversion, Obsession and Lunacy. The whole gamut 
of mental affliction can be classified as : a) Major mental afflictions 
can by lack of awareness of the condition on the part of the individual. 
The individual loses touch with reality and is not aware of his own 
disease. They fail to earn money for idiocy. Some are born as deaf, 
dumb and lunatic for their sins of past lives. Some people also can 
become lunatic in advanced ages for stress and strain of life. Upto 1960, 
the treatment for lunacy there was either confinement in security cells 
worse than those provided for dangerous criminals or exorcist, which 


(310) 


was worse. Ranchi mental asylum was very famous prison for all 
lunatic persons. But in 2006 AD, doctors are trying hard to cure their 
patients. b) Temporary mental afflictions due depression "and 
conditions like guilt, despair, despondency, melancholy, prolonged 
bereavement, lassitude and loss of interest. 


Astrological factors: 


We are grateful to. our ancient sages for developing so many 
astrological aphorisms for the benefit of mankind. This science Was 
developed at least 10,000 yrs ago (8000 BC), but rules are stunningly 
true even in 2007. From astrological standpoint these diseases are to be 
viewed primarily from the affliction of Lagna, 4* house (feelings and 
emotions), 5" house (intelligence faculty, thinking power), Moon 
(governor of mind and emotion), Mercury (lord of intelligence, logical 
tibinking). The separative and disruptive planets are Mars, Saturn and 
nodes. If the powerful affliction of Mercury or Lagna or the Moon hag 
the contact of Rahu, one can be certain that no medical treatment would 
be of any avail. When both Moon and Mercury are afflicted the disease 
should be of serious nature. The Lagna and its lord should be involved 
in the affliction. Affliction to the Moon and Mercury, if strong, result in 
severe psychological complexes that could affect normal life. Heavily 
affliction to the Moon have two fold significance. Depending on the 
rest of the chart, the afflictions to the Moon can reduce longevity. Ifthis 
does not happen, then the native become a case for a psychologist. Such 
natives may display normal social behaviour, but deep underneath they 
are comedowns of serious emotional disturbance and psychological 
complexes. Such natives can make life miserable for those they marry. 
Depending upon the intensity or nature of affliction, they can either be 
schizophrenic, paranoid neurotic or even homicidal. If the affliction of 
Mars is from Saturn, such natives suffer from excessive melancholy or 
depression and living with them can impair severely the peace of the 
family. They suffer from a persecution complex and believe they are 
martyrs in life and that everyone should be beholden to them otherwise 
they go haywire. Afflictions centering on the Moon 8m Mars make 


(311) 


for violent moods, behaviour and action. They are very very harsh in 
speech and can lash with their tongues with such ferocity, their victims 
may soon end up as mental wrecks. If Moon is afflicted by Rahu, then 
one suffers from dangerous levels of suspicion. and homicidal 
tendencies. If the Moon is with Ketu, the native suffers from an intense 
inferiority complex, clams up and withdraws into a shell. The escape 
route that appeals to such natives is self destruction or suicide 
otherwise, there may be a great longing for spiritual life. If the Moon is 
afflicted by two or more of these malefic- Satum, Mars, afflicted 
Mercury, Rahu, Sun or Ketu, then whatever may the other merits of the 
chart, one is safe by staying away from such individual. In all these 
cases of affliction of the Moon, the aspect of association of Jupiter or 
Venus tends to tone down to affliction. If the dispositor of the afflicted 
Moon is well placed in the Rasi chart preferably in a friend's house, it 
also tone down maleficence of the Moon. When a Moon-Mercury 
combination occurs, involving the watery signs, especially Pisces and 
Scorpio where Mercury and the Moon are respectively in debility, we 
have demonic natures cloaked in an apparently attractive exterior. Such 
natives can harbour horrendous levels of avarice, hate, jealousy and 
other morbid emotions that can lead a ruin death and depravity. One of 
the best things to have is a chart for marital alliance is a Moon, free of 
associations. The Moon with ‘Venus gives a friendly nature, whatever 
the sign occupied by Moon. The natives are amicable, fond of beauty or 
aesthetics and have the ability to share happiness. They are optimistic. 
Jupiter with Moon is always welcome and given a great magnanimity 
of mind and heart that can easily forgive. Now I shall show a.case where 
the young girl having Moon-Mercury combination in cancer, wrecked 
the family peace of two families. 


Example 80. House breaking lady : DOB 24-7-1979, 10=00PM, 
Kolkata. Pisces Lagna; Taurus Mars, Gemini Venus; Cancer Mercury 
(R), Sun;: Jupiter, Moon; Leo Saturn-Rahu. 6h house is the house of 
senses ard it‘is also‘the house of disease. Her 6” house is vitiated with 
worst malefic combination Mars-Stum-Rahu. Venus is in the star of 


(312) 


Rahu. Her 31a house is aspected by Saturn 
on Mars making her a dare devil. Moon- 
Mercuty combination in the house of 
intelligence afflicted by 6" lord Sun 
generated "Paischa yoga” in a watery sign. 
When 6" house ; is afflicted, 5™ 
(intelligence) 7* (house of marriage) 12 
house (house of bed pleasure) suffers (see 
Fortune and Finance by Dr. SS. Chatterjee 
P 89). Ketuin 12” ruined her family. She got married with a CA on 22-4- 
2003 during Ketu-Rahu dasa, fulfilling the wishes of a CAfather. On 5- 
5 -04 she deserted the house of her husband with false allegation that her 
husband maintains extra-marital relationships. Her father 
unnecessarily quarreled with her husband. Her husband engaged a 
detective agency who unearthed the whole secret. All the e-mails sent 
to her lover (she had sex-relationships with this guy before marriage) 
were recovered. All printed copies were handed over to her father. Her 
father could not tolerate the situation and he died in a massive heart 
attack during Ketu-Mercury (R) dasa. The dasa of two retrograde 
planets are always bad. Paisacha Yoga generated unhappiness in minds 
of several persons, whoever came in contact-with her. The dasa of gs" 
lord Venus buried her alive beneath the soil ruining all future prospects. 
The Moon in the 6m or with 6n lord in 8* (house of sins) or 12" (house of 
loss) can create mind set that is not healthy in attitude. 


Aphorisms of Lulaney: 


1. 3 lord eclipsed in conjunction with Rahu in Pisces or in Virgo 
and is at the same time aspected by Saturn, it causes a 
predisposition of mental and psychological abnormalities. 
Waning Moon and Saturn in 12" 

Saturn in the Ascendant while Mars in the 6"/8"/12* from Saturn. 
Atmakaraka j oins Mercury under malefic aspect. 

Jupiter in the ascendant and Saturnin 7”. 


yee at 


(313) 


6. Lord of Lagna, Saturn and 6" lord are in one sign 
7. Morons are born with Moon, node, and Saturn conjunction. 


Example 81. Birth of a moron, Deaf and Dumb from the childhood 

DOB 21-2-1986, 4=02AM, Delhi; Sagittarius Lagna; Aquarius 
Jupiter, Sun, Venus, Mercury; Aries Rahu; Gemini Moon 23 - 43; 
Libra Ketu; Scorpio Satum, Mars. 


When the lord of Lagna is in the enemy 
camp and is aspected by another malefic 
the life of the native is ruined completely. 
His lord of Lagna is placed in the house of 
his bitter enemy, is a combust planet and is 
afflicted by Mars, Ketu, 6" lord. Aspect of 
8* lord in lagna reduced the size of his 
personality. His 6°/8°/12" lords are 
afflicted, which increase sufferings in life. 
All the kendras of Moon are vacant, which 

denied him any career. His 5" house is occupied by Rahu and the 8 
house from 5" house is occupied by Satum and Mars. 9" lord has moved 
180° away from its natal position. Hence weak 9:n, 5" and 1* lords made 
him a moron. 4* lord is a combust planet. 4n lord and 6n lords have 
conjoined. God writes only sad episodes about a person whose Jupiter 
is weak in the horoscope. All these combinations made him a moron. 
His Deha Rasi is Capricom and Jeeva sign is Gemini. 8* lord Moon 
occupied his Jeeva sign, on account of this reason Goddess Laxmi 
deserted him. He opened his life with Pisces dasa Sy-2m-22d. Any dasa 
in KCD, when its lord has moved to 3/6/8/12 from its natal position will 
produce malefic results. His lord of Pisces Jupiter has moved to its 12" 
place form its natal position and is a combust planet. Dasa of such a 
planet can only bestow sufferings in life. 


Example 82. Case of idiocy : DOB 10-12-1980/5=04PM/Kolkata. 
Taurus Lagna; Cancer Rahu; Virgo Jupiter, Satum; Libra Venus; 
Scorpio Sun, Mercury; Sagittarms Moon, Mars; Capricorn Ketu. 


(314) 


He apparently looks normal with no 

physical deformations but his behaviour 

resembles with that of a boy of six yr only. 
His IQ level is very low and is an example 
of a moron. He has studied upto IV 

standard arid he has taste for music. He has 
no power to earn money. 4°/5" lords are ‘|? 
powerfully aspected by Saturn and Rahu. 
Both Sun and Moon are not aspected by ——_l + 
divine Jupiter. The significator of mind Moon is placed in the 8m house 
with Mars and is hemmed between malefics. All these evil astrological 
yogas made him a moron. His Aries is Deha; Scorpio = Jeeva. He 
opened his life with cancer dasa for 4yrs. Since its lord Moon has 
moved to 6* house from its natal position and is hemmed between 
malefics the dasa produced worst results for him. Afflicted Moon in 8", 
hemmed between malefics ruined his mental faculty, made him a 
moron of the society. 


Example 83. Turned lunatic for depression : DOB 21-3-1977/ 
4=55AM/Dhanbad. Aquarius Lagna, Mars; Pisces Moon, Sun, 
Mercury; Aries Ketu, .Venus (R), Taurus Jupiter, Cancer Saturn (R); 
Libra Rahu, balance Merc 12y 2m 18d 


When 9" house/9" lord are weak, 
everything evaporates in air. He passed X Ln f% 
in 1993, became a Gem Technician in a ? 

? Ura 


Gems Institute Noida in 1996. After two 
yrs at the end of 1998; he was caught by the 


security guard for stealing a small piece of 

diamond (about 30 cent). Infant and 7 
retrograde planet Venus in the 31 house von 
with Ketu proved very inauspicious for 


him (Venus-Venus dasa). Dasa of 
retrograde planets are never good. He resigned his job and started 


(315)" 


reading XII, then B:Com from IGNU. He almost completed his B.Com 
but could not pass one paper in the last semester. He lost all interest in 

life and did not like to pursue further.studiés. He locked himself in a 

single room of the father and lives only by drinking milk. He refuses 
food. He does not listen to anybody. Moon-Mercury combination in a 

watery sign hemmed between malefic provided him a demonic nature. 

Dasa of retrograde 9” lord afflicted by Ketu and Saturn ruined his life. 

He became lunatic during Venus-Sun dasa. Antardasa of Sun is highly 

malefic for 90% persons on this earth. His Sun, Moon, Mercury are all 

hemmed between malefics and not aspected by any benefic planet. 

Their dispositor Jupiter is placed in the enemy camp and. is aspected by 
Mars. 6/8 relation of Saturn and Mars, 2/12 relationship of 5/9 lords 

added fuel to the fire. Union of accepts of Saturn + Mars in 8 surfaced 

scandals in life 


Example : 84 A case of Lunacy of a brilliant boy : DOB 5-06-72 
/10:30 PM /Agra. Capricom Lagna, Rahu; Pisces Moon, 2-9; Taurus 
Saturn, Mercury, Sun; Gemini Mars, Venus ®, cancer Ketu; Virgo 
Uranus, Pluto; Sagittarius Jupiter (R) 


He is the son of Major General and was 
born in Savya group A 4* Qtr with balance Ne 
30y 6m 13 d. He opened his life with 


Vrishchika 2y-6m-13d. Sagittarius, ca 
Capricorn, Aquarius passed away ‘ 

peacefully. As soon as Pisces dasa started 

he grew lunatic in 1992. In 1991 he was : 


admitted in DCE, Dethi. He passed the 1* 

yr. From 2m year his behaviour became 

abnormal. With naughty boys *he was 

found in the cremation grounds trying to do Sadhana on corpses. Some 
how he continued his college, finished final yr also, but he could not 
clear 10 papers from 2m yr to 4” yr, He is sitting idle at home, writing the 
results of imaginary sensational discoveries, and sending e-mails to 


(316) 


hundred of places with his half baked theories which nobody likes to 
buy from him. Why he grew lunatic? His Deha = Cancer, occupied by 
Ketu, Pisces is Jeeva, where we find his Deha lord Moon. Placement of 
Deha lord in Jeeva sign curtails longevity and it is accepted with fear. If 
Deha and Jeeva sign lords make any relationship a great calamity in life 
Is sure to follow. Deha and Jeeva lords are placed in mutual quadrants, 
which also became evil for him. Meen dasa ruined him completely, 
because the dasa lord is retrograde, is placed in the star of Ketu and is 
hemmed between Rahu and Neptune. He tried to commit suicide on 6- 
5-2006, by touching 22,000 Volt live wires (Mercury-Jupiter(R)- Venus 
(R) dasa), but he was thrown away and was saved by a Railway person. 
In Vimsotori system he was born with 12" lord Jupiter's dasa with the 
balance | yr-4m-29d. When anybody starts his life with 8°/6"/12" lord's 
dasa, he faces extreme hostility on the road to success. As soon as 
Mercury dasa (combust) started, he lost his mental balance. His 10° and 
11" lords are conjoined together and hemmed between malefics. Both 
4" and 5* lord are placed in the 6" hemmed between malefics. All these 
unfortunate yogas ruined his life cordately. God did not allow him to 
earn any money. When 9* house/9" lord are weak, everything 
evaporates in air. His 9 lord is a combust planet and is afflicted by 
Satum and Rahu. 9” house is occupied by Uranus and Pluto aspected by 
Mars and Rahu. I strongly believe Saturn-Mars combination in the 12" 
house of his father (14-10-1947, 3-O0PM:Balia) ruined his prospect in 
life. 12" is actually 8" from 5”. There is a Karmic connection between 
son and father. Even well qualified Doctors of the 21" century 
throughout the globe are helpless in front of such dangerous diseases. 
Can anybody cure him? 


AIDS AND OTHER SEX DISEASES 


There is still no cure for AIDS (acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome), nor there is a special diet for people infected with HIV 
(Human Immunodeficiency Virus) that causes the disease. Mushroom 
can fight against AIDS successfully. One should avoid alcohol. Well 


(317) 


cooked meat, poultry, eggs, milk, nuts and other high calories protein 
foods canprevent weight and muscle loss. 


In 1981, a mysterious disease that came to be known as AIDS, cut a 
deadly swathe through San Francesco, USA. People showing AIDS, 
symptoms were kicked off commercial aero planes and some funeral 
homes wouldn't handle the bodies of those killed by this highly 
infectious diseases. At least 100 million people perished between 1981- 
2006, throughout the globe. In 2006, 1800 HIV related death are found 
daily in San Francisco, This disease is most prevalent in South Africa 
and India also. AIDS might spell a loss of over 20 million in the next 20 
yrs in India alone. According to Times of India dated 23-11-2006, 
about 40 million persons are suffering from AIDS globally. There are 
11,000 infections world wide every day. The number of reported 
HIV/AIDS cases in China has grown by nearly 30% in 2006. the virus 
seemed to be spreading form high risk groups of the general public. 
People selling blood illegally or receiving infected blood accounted for 
5.1% it added. AIDS is such a sex disease nobody like him, including 
doctors, nurses, graveyard person. He is deserted by all and once HIV 
test becomes positive, the native is sure to die within 2-3 yrs., there is 
almost no medicine for recovery. Certain foreign substances, virus or 
bacteria known as antigens when find way two our system they pose 
health problems. As soon as some virus enters our body, the blood 
produces anti-germ (antibody). The principal antibodies are 
immunoglobulins. This protective mechanism by virtue of which a 
body resists the invasion of foreign micro-organism is known as 
immunity or defence mechanism is normally known as immunity 
which means relative resistance to an infection. This immune system is 
of two types,’ cellular immunity produced by the B-lmphocytes or 
humeral immunity from antibodies produced by T-lymphocytes. In 
other types of viral infection such as hydrophobia, pox, polio virus, the 
defence mechanism of T-lymphocytes grabs the infection and destroys 
it. Side by side, antibodies are produced in the form of B-lymphocytes 
so that particular disease due to the relative virus does not strike the 


(318) 


system again. In the development of methods of immunization against 
poliomyelitis, Jonas Salk and his colleagues discovered (1892) that 
they could take active polio viruses, kill them with formaldehyde 
(HCHO) and use the killed virus as antigens. Passive immunization 
depends on the use of antibodies made to another animal. Thus if 
antigens are injected into a horse, the horse will produce the specific 
antibodies. The blood serum of the animal, now containing the 
antibodies, is known as anti serum. Horse serum collected from animals 
immunized with tetanus toxic may be used to give protection against a 
potential case of tetanus. The protection is immediate, but is only 
temporary inasmuch as antibody production by the patient is not 
involved. The AIDS virus penetrates within T-lymphocytes itself and 
takes shelter therein and begins to multiply. As a result the defence 
mechanism of T-lymphocytes completely breaks down and thereby, 
even a simple disease may take a serious turn. Because of its power of 
rapid multiplication, the AIDS virus ultimately may in capacitate the 
defence mechanism. However, it has recently been discovered that 
when the HIV adheres to the body of T-lymphocytes, a special type of 
protein, namely, CD+4 can be injected which may arrest the onset of the 
actual disease. Virulence depends on twp major factors: the ability of 
the pathogen to invade, spread and multiply in the host, and the toxins 
(poison) or other ill effects it produces. To be virulent, an organism 
must be able to invade the tissue and once there, produce toxins, or 
some other way harm the host. AIDS is such a dangerous disease, even 
scientists are afraid to carry on researches on them. 


Astrological background : 


AIDS is the outcome of free sexual habits. Venus and Pluto are the sex 
Gods. Disease in sex organs are to judged from the Libra sign, Scorpio, 
7" house and 8* house. When Libra, Scorpio, Venus and Mars are 
afflicted by Rahu, Saturn, Ketu or 6"/8"/12" lords, along with afflicted 
7T"lor8* house diseases of the sex organs are to be anticipated. Internal 
structure of the private parts of the body (genitals), anus, liver, kidneys, 


(319) 


urethra, fallopian tubes, ovaries, vaginal passage up to uterus, spleen 
are governed by the 8h house. When Mercury is also afflicted, it 
produces deep ulcers. Venus on its own doesn't give any ailment or 
disease relating to private parts or any other complaints of health 
related to sex life. But these days we hear a lot about venereal diseases 
and fatal sex related diseases like HIV and AIDS in case the individual 
has conjunction of Mars or Saturn with Venus in the 8” house. However 
if itis Rahu with Venus in the 8”, the ailment would not stay for long and 
be cured continuity in treatment and preventive care. The illness gets 
diagnosed at an early stage and chances of cure of the complaint are 
quite good, quick and easy. In case of illness, ailment or disease or 
injury or wound created by Saturn and Venus in 8* house, recovery 
would take longer and would cost substantially. Ketu in 8" house 
provides indication toward unnatural physical contact with either sex. 
Study of the horoscopes of gays or lesbians would indicate that at least 
50% of them would have Ketu in 8” house (or Rahu). It has been 
noticed that some people develop this interest at an advanced age, say 
beyond 45 or so. If Mars, Saturn or Venus be in conjunction with Ketu 
in 8t, the illness or sex disease caused would take longer to cure and 
might have a scope of recurrence. Pluto, Ketu, Venus or Mars in 8h 
house is highly dangerous for AIDS. If Mercury joins deep ulcers 
would be produced and patient will die soon after infections. 8* house is 
the house of immunity (Cosmic Influences on & I.Q. by Dr. SS. 
Chatterjee P115). Controversial group of planets Rahu-Mars, Sun- 
Saturn, Mars-Venus, Saturn-Mars, Ketu-Venus, Ketu-Mars in 8* 
destroys the immunity system of the body. The Ascendant should not be 
under papakartari yoga and it should be aspected by benefics. Strong 
Lord of Lagna, strong Jupiter, Sun and Moon will provide terrible 
resistances for fighting any disease. When Sun, Moon and the 
ascendant lord makes relationship with 6/8/12 lords, one may have a 
dangerous disease. 6" lord is the worst malefic for the initiation of any 
disease. In almost all the cases its presence is a must for the initiation of 


(320) 


any disease. If there is any benefic in 11 * (natural benefic), the native 
will receive heaven's help for the recovery from any disease. When 1 * 
house makes any relationship with 6" house /to 6* lord, one may get 
serious illness. If Mars is debilitated and Venus is also afflicted, the girl 
may even elope with any person, have sexual relationships with many 
persons, Mars in Taurus or Libra is also bad and it is difficult to 
maintain character above suspicion. When the Moon is placed in the 
10* house, the lady makes love with many persons. Excess passion 
arrives for the influence of Mars on Venus. Rahu and Satum in the 8" 
house might lead an individual to connection with a male or female 
prostitute. These two dangerous planets encourage the individual 
towards unconventional sex activity. Rahu in 8th house delays speedy 
recovery from any injury, wound, illness, diseases and tries to leave an 
impact on the mind of the individual. Ketu, Saturn in 8" leads a sexual 
wound, septic or formation of gangrene and in comparison to Rahu, 
makes recovery very much delayed and expenditure oriented. 


Aphorisms of disease in sex organs: 


a) If Rahu or Ketu is in conjunction with lord of Ascendant, Moon 
and Mercury in one house, the native will suffer from venereal 
disease. 


b) — If Moon is in conjunction with a malefic, when his Navamsa falls 
in Cancer or Scorpio, the native will get a disease of genitals. 

c) If Satur is in conjunction with Sun in a Kendra of Mars, aspected 
by the Moon and Venus, the native will get disease on genitals. 

d) .Ifa very weak Jupiter in conjunction with a malefic in 12" house, 
the native will get disease on the genitals. 

e) If the Venus in conjunction with malefics and if Rahu or Ketu 
occupies the 8* house, the native will get venereal disease. 


Example 85. Uterus removal :. DOB 30-6-1958, 7=00AM Delhi. 
Cancer Lagna; Virgo Jupiter; Libra Rahu; Scorpio Saturn (R) Moon; 


(321) 


Pisces Mars; Aries Ketu; Taurus Venus; Mer Sun : 


Gemini Sun, Mercury, Balance Mercury 
lyr-Om- 19d. 


3 


Libra, Scorpio are afflicted. 7° house is 
squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. Ketu aspects 
6" house, Mars aspects Virgo. Which 
indicate clearly about an operation. She 
got married in Venus Rahu dasa in 1976, 
produced two sons, but she had to remove 
uterus in 1997, during Moon-Saturn dasa. - 


ROLE OF VENUS IN DEFORMITIES AND 
LOCOMOTIONS 


It is a very unfortunate incident to lose an organ during life time. Of 
course some people are born blind, deaf, dumb with crippled legs and 
other hundreds of bodily defects. Map of heavens erected at the time of 
birth, do speak about the future incidents of life. The author is 
astonished to observe the accuracy of golden subtle rules (without 
providing any rationale) framed by sages of yore even in 2007 AD. 
Many big people in history have suffered from bodily defects. Raja 
Yogas lift a man to a dizzy heights, whereas Duryogas force the native 
to suffer at the hands of destiny. During world war If Roosevelt was the 
president of whole earth. There is nobody who can challenge him. 
Every nation head has to bow his head in front of him. Such a mighty 
man suffered at the hand's of destiny. Is it not surprising? (See example 
88). Our body lustre is governed by Venus. Nehru, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, 
First President of India, Mahatama Gandhi had Venus in Libra. When 
Venus is posited in the star of 1,3,8,15 and 27 Nakshatra Raja Yoga ts 
formed. Such persons are lucky (by Sukrachaya in his Bengali Book, 
Horoscope Analysis P 106). They hardly receive any mutilations of the 
body. Rajeev Gandhi had Venus in Leo Lagna in the star of Sun, 
hemmed between malefics, conjoined with Jupiter, Moon, Sun and 
Mercury. On 21 -5-1991, his body was blown to pieces. The significator 


sane 


(322) 


of loss of limbs Saturn was aspecting Venus from Gemini. Mahatma 
Gandhi was assassinated because his Venus was in direct aspect of 6” 
lord Jupiter (enemy), in conjunction with Mars and 12" lord Mercury 
hemmed between malefics. So it is understood, Venus-should never be 
placed under papakartari yoga for haying a charismatic outlook 
throughout life. Rajiv Gandhi is the only VIP in the memory of history 
who lost all the limbs. Aspect of Satum on Venus hemmed between 
malefics proved too costly for him. Kal Sarpa Yoga is a Duryoga. When 
most of the planets are hemmed between malefics, Duryoga is to bé 
anticipated. According Uttar Kalamitra (chapter V, sloka 18), among - 
other important significations like marriage, power, beauty, music, 
good looking eyes, pleasant movement er walking and well 
proportioned limbs are attributed to the Venus. Venus should be strong 
with no malefic influence, if One is to be blessed with either of these lost 
two significations. Remember how elegantly Nehru, Rajender Prasad, 
John Kennedy roamed on this earth for their strong Venus. Gandhiji 
used to walk very fast for his strong Venus. Venus is the 2/7" lord of the 
zodiac and hence has the highest killer instincts. Venus will always try 
to harm the native when he gets any opportunity. On account of this 
reason Venus Satum or Saturn Venus dasa is peculiar to about 95% 
persons on this earth. Venus makes a person suffer with worst malefic 
effects if connected with 6,8,12* or Badhaka lords. Rajiv Gandhi's 
6"/8"/12" lords were in conjunction with 3°/10" lord Venus is Leo 
Lagna. The loss of limbs may occur during Saturn-Venus or Venus 
Satum dasa when they are placed in 1-3, 6-8, or 2-12 positions. 
Sagittarius is the seat of limbs in natural zodiac and 9" house also rules 
the same. When Sagittarius; 9” house and its lord are afflicted, they also 
cause loss of limbs. In almost 99.9% cases, I have found that in the case 
of loss of limbs, Sagittarius (lord is Jupiter, is the ruler of happiness) is 
invariably found to be afflicted. So affliction of Sagittarius is a must for 
the loss of limbs. Venus-Jupiter conjunction, Gaja Keshasri yoga, 
Jupiter aspected by a natural benefic will not allow deformation. Jupiter 
is the lord of happiness, when he is strong, there is least possibilities of 


(323) 


mutilation of the body. In case of Rajeev Gandhi, who lost all the limbs, 
his Sagittarius was in opposition to Saturn from Gemini. Saturn and 
Ketu are two major planets of afflictions of which are mainly 
responsible for deformities. 2"*/6"/10'" houses and 
; Taurus/Virgo/Capricor rule flesh and bone. Affliction of these houses 
and lords of 2"/6"/10" houses also produce deformities. 2™ house 
Taurus rule the right leg, Pisces and 12* house rule the left leg; 
Gemini/3" house rule the right hand, Aquarius/11" house -ule the left 
hand. Any relation of them with combination of defonr 'ties may 
produce the sad moments of life. When Moon-Ketu occupies the 8* 
house in addition when Satum occupies 2nd, 4* or 12* house, there are 
chances of major surgery or amputation of a limb of the body. 


Aphorisms of deformities : 


}. According to Jataka Parij ata if in a horoscope, the Moon is in 10°, 
Mars in the 7", the Sun in 2™ the native will be defective in some 
limb. 

2. .According to Jataka Tattwa, if Mars is in the Ascendant and is 
aspected by Saturn and Sun, the native will be defective in some 

. limb. 

3. According to Jatakalankara, if malefics occupy the kendras, the 
native will have some defective limb: 

4. According to Jataka Parijata, if he Ascendant falls in the last 
navamsa of Capricorn and Lagna is aspected by Sun, Moon and 
Satum the native will be dwarf. 

5. According to Jataka Parijata, if malefics occupy the 9*. 11" 31a 
and 5* houses are riotaspected by benefics the native will be deaf. 
In this yoga 3" and 11* rule ears and the power of hearing. The 
significators of deafness are Mars and Jupiter. Affliction to them 
causes deafness. 

6. If malefic planets Sun, Moon and Saturn occupy. the 9* arid 11" 
and are not aspected by benefics, the native will be deaf. . 


(324) 


12. 


13. 


According to Jatakalankara a) If both Sun and Moon be in a 
Kendras, then the defect may be in the limbs near the loins or the 
buttocks b) If Saturn should aspect Venus in the Ascendant, then 
also the same thing occurs; 

According to Dr. B.V. Raman, if the 2m lord accompanied by 
Jupiter is in the 8n from Lagna, the native become dumb. If any 
one of these planets occupy his exaltation or own house, the yoga 
is nullified. 

According to Sarvartha Chintamani if the 2” lord conjoined with 
Mercury and Rahu is in the 6* from the Ascendant or 2™ lord has 
conjoined with dispositor of Mercury and Rahu, the native is 
attacked with a disease of palate and ultimately becomes dumb; 
According to Jataka Parijata if the malefic plaents Satum, Mars 
and the Sun occupy the last portion of Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces, 
one will be dumb. If only two malefics occupy the above houses, 
there will be very little speech; if only one malefic occupies such 
a portion of the chart, there will be slow or stammering speech. In 
this rule, the Moon must have a malefic aspect, but if the Moon 
has a benefic aspect, the child will begin to speak later than usual. 
In this Yoga, dumbness means losing power of speech. Speech is 
denoted by the 2nd, 5* houses and the significator is Mercury, 
According to Jataka Parijata, if the ascendant be Leo and the Sun 
and the Moon occupying it, are aspected by Saturn or Mars, the 
native will have no sight in the eyes. If Lagna receives benefic 
aspect, the native's eyes, will be bulbous without any light. If 
Moon occupies the 12"house, he will have the left eye hurt and if 
the Sun occupies the 12*, the right eye will be hurt. If benefics 
aspect the Sun and the Moon in the yoga, the evil effects will not 
happen. 

If one of the 12" and 6* houses be occupied by the Sun and other 
by the Moon, both the native and his wife will have one eye. 
According to Dr. B.V. Raman if Mercury and the Moon should in 


(325) 


16. 


17. 


the 2™ or the lords of Lagna and the 2n should join the 2° with 
Sun, the native will have defective eye sight or he will be born 
blind. If the lords of 10" and 6* occupy Lagna with the 2nd lord or 
if they are in Neechamsa, the above yoga is caused. The native 
loses his eyesight. This combination makes one blind sometime 
in life, 

According to Jataka Parijata : If Saturn and Mars are in house 
owned by Mercury or Mercury Navamsa, the child born will 
have teeth by birth. If Moon in the dark half occupies 7h Mars in 
Lagna or in the Navamsa of the sign in the Lagna and the Moon of 
the dark half is with the Sun, the native loses both arms and feet. 
According to Dr. B.V. Raman, the native's hands will be cut off if: 
a) Saturn and Jupiter should be in 9* and the 3:4 house b) by the 
disposition of Saturn and Jupiter in the 8* arid 12" house c) by 
the presences of Moon in the 7” or 8* in association with Mars. d) 
by the conjunction of Rahu, Saturn and Mercury in the 10°. In the 
yogas, it looks for more reasonable to assume that the result 
ascribed to yoga can happen only when involved planets are 
highly afflicted and occupy cruel shastiamsas (1/60 divisions). 
According to Sarvartha Chintamani if the lord of the 12" house is 
weak, situated in a malefic Navamsa or in the Navamsa sign of its 
debilitation or in its sign of debilitation, the native loses one of his 
limbs. 

If there are many malefics in the 12” house, and the lord of 12” 


. house is with Saturn, Gulika and Rahu the native gets one of his 


limbs impaired. 


Example 86. Loss vision of the right eye : DOB 16-11-1977/11- 
30AM/ Haridwar. Capricorn Lagna, Moon; Leo Saturn, Virgo Rahu; 
Libra Venus; Scorpio-Sun, Mercury, Gemini Jupiter(R), Cancer - 


Mars 


Moon and Sun are the giver of lights in he eyes. Venus is the overall in 
charge of eyes. Venus is heavily afflicted by Saturn and Mars. None of 


(326) 


the luminaries are aspected by Jupiter. 
Right eye is controlled from the 2nd house, 
which is spoiled by the joined aspect of 
Saturn and Mars. Wherever the forces of 
Saturn and Mars concentrate on a house, 
the house suffers annihilation.‘ His Venus 
is hemmed between malefics. Sagittarius 
is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. While he 
was passing Moon-Venus dasa, somebody 
threw a stone on his right eye. He lost vision of this eye completely. 
Afflicted sub lord Venus in the star of Rahu, did not spare him. Venus is 
the Yogakaraka for his lagna. Afflicted Venus produced the permanent 
sad memory in his life. All the loss of limbs yogas arc visible in his 
horoscope. One should be very careful during the dasa, antardasa of 
malefic Venus, afflicted by Mars, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu, 6"/8"/12" lords: 
Venus hemmed between malefics is the worst, in causing damage to 
limbs. He is an MC Anowandis employed in Banglore (2006). 


Example 87. Loss of both legs: DOB 9-7-1963 at 19h 20m Colombo. 
Capricorn Lagna, Saturn(R), Moon; Pisces Jupiter; Gemini Mercury, 
Venus, Sun, Rahu; Leo Mars; Sagittarius Ketu. 


Too many malefics in 8* makes anybody 
accident prone. His Mars in the 8* house is 
aspected by Ketu. Venus is afflicted by 6* 
lord Mercury and Rahu. Sagittarius is 
occupied by Ketu. 9* house is squared by 
Rahu-Ketu axis. 9" lord is afflicted, karaka 


of. amputation Saturn aspects ‘Jupiter. CS 

. . . 3 

During the dasa of Jupiter-Sun in Aug 

1998, in a tragic car accident he lost both Sun Rah 

the legs. Leg is controlled’ by the Taurus 

and 2™ house. The lord of Taurus Venus is afflicted. 2“ house is aspected 


by Mars and Rahu. Pisces/12* house controls the left leg. Pisces is 


(327) 


squared by Rahu-Ketu axis, Mars and Saturn aspect Pisces. 12” house is 
occupied by Ketu. All these unfortunate combinations forced him to 
lose both legs in a tragic accident. When Kendras of 6* lord are 
occupied by Rahu, Ketu, Saturn the native suffers from many 
litigations in life. God writes a sad episode about a person whose Jupiter 
is found weak in the birth chart. His Jupiter is very weak because it 
squared by Rahu-Ketu axis aspected by Mars and Saturn. Joint aspects 
of Mars and Saturn can annihilate any planet or house where they 
concentrate. Afflicted 3:4 house robbed him communication skill 
through locornotion. 


Example 88. Wheel chaired President Roosevelt of USA : 
DOB 30-1-1882/20hrs, New York. Leo Lagna; Scorpio Rahu, 
Capricorn Sun, Venus, Aquarius - Mercury, Aries Jupiter, Satur, 
Taurus Ketu, Gemini - Mars (R) Moon. 


He had Leo Lagna. Yogakaraka Mars is 

posited in the house of Mercury in its own oe 
star in the angle of Moon. His Lagna and 

Mercury are squared by Rahu-Ketu axis, 
Mercury rules the youth. Saturn rules one's ase 
old age. When these two planets are not ’ 

conjunct and are separated by about 90 

degrees then the young age paralysis is aw 
distinct possibility. His Saturn and 
Mercury are about 70 degree apart. Hence 
he was caught by young age paralysis. Saturn Rahu dasa between 14-3- 
1920 to 20-1-1923 proved fatal for him. He had to spend the remaining 
years of his life confined to the wheel chair. Saturn Rahu dasa or Rahu 
Saturn dasa is bad for 95% persons of this earth. The dispositor of 
Moon, Mercury in the star of yogakaraka Mars proved very very 
auspicious for him. He enjoyed Mercury Mahadasa between 2-8-1925 
to 2-8-1942. He was the President of USA for three consecutive terms 


during this period of his life. In his chart Ketu, Rahu and Saturn have 
generated Neechvanga Raja Yogas. Venus is in the star of Moon, where 


(328) 


Moon-Mars combination is found in Gemini. Thus Venus was 
energized by the yogakaraka Mars. Venus is his 10* lord, which 
elevated him to the rank of President of USA for 12 yrs. His 10* lord 
Venus is a combust planet and is placed in the 6* and is afflicted by 
Saturn, Sun, Mars and Ketu. The same Venus in 6* house forced him to 
stay in wheelchair for the most part of his life because it is aspected by 
Saturn, Mars and Ketu ruining Venus. All the 9 planets are energized by 
the yogakaraka Mars. So the planets behaved very very well him. 
2"/11" lord in a Kendra provides guarantee of financial solvency 
throughout life. Sasi-Mangal yoga in the 11* is an excellent Dhana 
Yoga. Jupiter Saturn conjunction in 5* or 9* house produce top class 
intellectuals. 9” lord Mars and 10” lord Venus are inter connected 
through Yogakaraka Mars. 


Example 89. Crushed left leg : DOB 31-3-1972 4=45PM, 
Muzaffamagar UP. Leo Lagna; Libra Moon, Sagittarius Jupiter; 
Capricom Rahu; Pisces Mercury (R), Sun; Taurus Venus, Saturn, 
Mars; Cancer Ketu. 


This is the horoscope of a property dealer 
of Noida. He was bom with Rahu Kew eZ 
Mahadasa. Dasa of 8” lord Jupiter 
(afflicted by Mars, carrying the deadly 


influence of lord of injury 6* lord Saturn) 
and antardasa of Rahu (2/12 relationships) 


proved costly for him, He was on the way 
to school on the fateful day in March 1977, as aN 
when a truck crushed life left feet. 


Somehow he survived. He can run 

motorcycle, and can walk without sticks. His whole left foot was 
removed as an impact of the unfortunate accident. Venus is heavily 
afflicted by Saturn, Mars and Rahu. So his body lustre is bound to 
suffer. 9* house is under papakartari yoga, 9* lord has joined 6* lord 
Satum and is further afflicted by Rahu from Capricorn. Sagittarius is 


(329) 


powerfully aspected by Mars. When the 12* house and its lord, and 
Pisces are afflicted one's left leg is damaged. 12" lord Moon is squared 
by Rahu-Ketu axis. Ketu occupies 12* house, Pisces is occupied by 
retrograde Mercury and Sun aspected by Ketu. A retrograde planet 
always causes some deficiency of the house wherever it is located its 
lord Jupiter is afflicted. Pisces is in opposition to Uranus and Pluto. 
Jupiter in its own house in Sagittarius saved the amputation of the 
complete left leg. 9¥ lord and 10" lord have formed a formidable Raja 
Yoga in Taurus. He has clearly Adhi Yoga. Right leg is controlled by 
Taurus and 2™ house. 2™ lordis aspecting its own house. Jupiter in 5* (4th 
from 2nd house) saved his right leg. There is an exchange of Jupiter and 
Sun in Navamsa. Jupiter is placed in the 10” house in Navamsa. Strong 
Jupiter saved his left leg and allowed him to recover quickly. 6/8 
relationships ofkarmic control planets did not allow him to grow well 
in the society. Somehow he is managing his both ends meet. Afflicted 
Venus forced him to pay heavy price. 


Example 90. Multiple facture in right leg : DOB 26.10.82,19=45, 
Trivendrunm. Taurus Lagna; Gemini Rahu; Virgo Mercury; Libra 


Saturn, Jupiter, Sun, Venus; Sagittarius. Mars, Ketu; Capricorn Moon 
26-41. 


His 8* house is heavily afflicted by Mars, 
Ketu and further afflicted by deadly 
Saturn. on 31.3.2003, a school friend took . 
him from home in a scooter to Atta Market 
in Noida for fun. On the way they met a 
violent accident with a three-wheeler at 
7:30 PM. His right leg bones were crushed 
to pieces. Accident occurred during Rahu- 
Sun-Mercury dasa. Right leg is controlled 
by the Taurus and 2” house is occupied by 
Rahu but in direct aspect of Mars from the 8* house. 2"/6"/10" house 
are also afflicted, which added fuel to the fire. He had to stay idle for 12 


(330) 


months for the complete recovery and parents had to cough off 2.5 
lakhs in Kailash Hospital. As per KCD, ha has Taurus = Deha and 
Gemini = Jeeva. He was bom in 2™ quarter of apasaya B group. Saturn 
and Rahu were transiting his Deha sign. When more than malefic 
transits either, Deha and Jeeva sign, an accident occurs provided dasa is 
also bad. He was passing the fag end of Taurus dasa. Venus is the lord 
of locomotion. So it brought disasters in life. Apasaya group B persons 
suffers more at he hands of destiny, because benefic dasa lords generate 
inauspicious results. 


FRACTURE OF BONES AND BONE DISEASES 


The 206 bones that make up the human skeleton vary greatly in length, 
structure and hardness. The smaller bones such as those in the fingers, 
are more or less solid and consist of impact bone. The larger bones of 
the legs and arms are hollow and contain bone marrow. The spongy 
bone around the marrow is called cancelous bone to distinguish it from 
the outer compact bone. Bones contain a surprisingly large amount of 
water, amounting to 25% of their total weight. apart form this, bone is 
solid material consisting of inorganic compounds such as calcium 
phosphate and calcium carbonate, buried in which are living bone cells, 
Parathyroid glands secrete parathormone hormone. Its function is 
control the calcium and phosphorus concentration in the body. Too 
little of the hormone reduces the calcium level and increases the 
concentration of phosphorous and it is this causes bone to become 
brittle. In cases where the glands have degenerated as the result of 
infection, injections of calcium or parathormone (or both) are given. 
Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn rule of bone. 2"/6"/1 On houses from Moon 
and Ascendant are judged for the strength and weakness of the bones. 
When the above signs and above houses and their lords are afflicted one 
suffers from fracture and diseases of bones. Satum is the significator of 
all bones. Mars and Sun work for all difficult fractures. Mercury is 
responsible for the fracture of small bones. Mars refers to the neck, 
Saturn to limbs, Rahu to feet, Mercuryto the back (all peripheral nerves 


(331) 


are controlled by Mercury). Taurus and 2™ house control right leg, 
Pisces and 12* house control left leg, Gemini and 3rd house control the 
right hand, Aquarius and 11" house control the left hand. When 
2"/6"/10" houses from Moon, Aries, Lagna are afflicted along with 
afflicted Saturn, Sun, Mars and Mercury one may have multiple 
fracture of bone. 4* house rules the ribs. Ribs are curbed bones 
reaching from spine to the upper part of the body. 4* house/ cancer 
control the right part of the body. 10” house/Capricorn control the left 
part of the body. When the 4* house is hemmed between malefics along 
with afflicted Capricorn one will have fracture on the left side of the 
body. When there is a malefic planet in the 6* house and Mars is strong 
an operation surely takes place .in the lifetime of the native. Ketu's 
influence on the 6* house/ Virgo gives multiple operations. 


Yogas for fractures : 

a) Moonin Saturn house hemmed between malefics. 
b) Sunand Mars in 3” aspectedby Saturn. 

c) Sun, Moon, Saturn, Mars in the 5°/8"/9" 

d) Saturn in2™, Moonin 4” and Mars inthe 10*. 

e) Rahu, Saturn, Mercury inthe 10” house. 


Fracture of bones occur due to an accident. One may fall down form the 
tree/roof top, and though speeding vehicles. Somebody may even fall! 
down in the bathroom and can have serious bone injury. When the 
Lagna, 4* and 5* houses or their lords are centers of stronger malefic 
influences than the 3"/9" houses, the native is vulnerable to injuries by 
speeding vehicles. The 4* house rules vehicles, and 8* house longevity. 
If these two houses are related then accidents happen while undertaking 
a journey during the period related to these house. If any, fiery, watery 
and earthy signs are involved, the accident may be due to air crash, fire 
or on the ground respectively. Accidents occur generally during the 
major or sub-periods of planets related to 6°/8"/12" houses in a 


(332) 


horoscope in which 8* house (house of accident) plays a dominant role. 
The dasa-Bhukti lords are invariably afflicted by transit which is an in 
failing index to timing of the mishap. In transit when Saturn and Mars 
together or in different signs when concentrating their force on the 
1°/3/8" houses or their lords, can strike on unforgettable cruel blow. 
Accidents occur when’Sun and the Moon are together or in mutual 
square position or.2/12 or 6/8 position and aspected by a retrograde 
Jupiter, Mars, Saturn or a node. When in transit Jupiter is strong, 
unafflicted, direct in motion and casts his trinal aspect on the affliction, 
no human loss of life is to be feared. The 8" lord with no connection 
with 3ra house and its lords in the birth chart keeps the life intact inspite 
of serious injuries in the disaster (for details read "Advanced Predictive 
Astrology-Vol 11 P 183 by Dr. S.S. Chatterjee). We shall now study a 
fewcase histories. All the horoscopes are from the research diary of the 
author. It must be mentioned here when Sun is the Ascendant lord, 
which is debilitated or afflicted, then bone will be controlled by Sun 
(Fortune and Finance by Dr. S. S. Chatterjee P 371). It is well known 
that Sun in 4*, Mars in 5*, Saturn in 9* lose half strength. 


Example 91. Severe pain of bones of a billionaire business man of 
Delhi: DOB 8-8-1949, 8-37 hrs, Delhi. Leo Lagna, Mercury, Venus, 
Sat; Capricorn Jupiter ®, Moon; Pisces Rahu; Gemini Mars, Cancer 
Sun. 


Here Sun is placed in the 4* house of the 
zodiac losing half strength, further it is 


hemmed between benefics. Because he . 
has a Leo Lagna, his bones are controlled 
mainly by the planet-Sun. This Sun is in 


direct aspect of 6* lord (ruler of diseases) 
and 8* lord Jupiter. He suffered from 
slipped disc while he is quite young at the 
age of 20 during Rahu-Saturn dasa. Rahu 
in 8* , 6* lord Saturn in Lagna in 6/8 


(333) 


relationships produced pain in the whole body. This is just the 
beginning of his sufferings at the hands of destiny. 2, 6* 10* house 
from Lagna, Taurus Virgo, Capricorn and the main significator Saturn 
governs bones (malignant growth, pain, deformities, enlargement, 
brittleness, dislocation etc). His 2m house is occupied by Ketu aspected 
by Mars. 6* house is occupied by 12m lord Moon and retrograde arid 
debilitated 8* lord. Retrograde and debilitated planets cause some 
deficiency of the houses, wherever they are located. Retrograde 8* lord 
in 6* produced chronic illness for him. Weak Jupiter did not provide, 
him recovery power. But this Jupiter forming Gajakeshri yoge, 
showered money on him in billions betweenT 981 to 1997. He became 
rich like Lord Kuvera. His two brilliant sons added glory in his personal 
life. The youngest son received his engineering degree from Perdue 
University, USA. The eldest son has opened business in Sector-2, 
Noida in 2005 (construction company). His 10" house is aspected by 
Ketu and 8* lord Jupiter. 2/10" lords are conjoined with deadly 6°77" 
lord Saturn. So all these astrological factors brought serious bone 
disorders for him. Parijata yoga (Lord of Lagna is in 12*, whose 
dispositor Moon is in 6*, whose dispositor Saturn is in Lagna. So 
Saturn, Moon and Sun are the Prijata Yoga forming planets. When 10* 
lord is in trine/angles or in the 2nd house is aspected by benefics a king is 
born. His 10" lord Venus occupies Lagna and is in own Navamsa. 2™ 
house is aspected by Jupiter. So we are not surprised to see him as.a very 
very prosperous man in the materialistic society. Venus in Libra 
Navamsa brings forth some giants of glory, Lokamanya Tilak, Nobel 
Laureate, Rabindranath Tagore and Sir M. Vishweshsarya are some 
such examples where humanitarian principles, social service, "peace- 
making" nature and balanced views comes to the foremost. 


Example 92. Fell down form roof fracture of backbones and left 
ankle : DOB 22-9-67/2=45AM/Delhi. Cancer Lagna; Leo Jupiter, 
Venus; Virgo Mercury, Sun; Libra Ketu; Scorpio Mars; Pisces 
Saturn; Aires Moon, Rahu. 


(334) 


On 4-6-2004 at 6=30AM he went to roof. 
to check his repairing job and by chance he 
fell down on the ground from a height of 


about 20 feet. He was passing Moon- 
Venus dasa. Upto 3-6-2004 he enjoyed 
Moon Venus Rahu dasa. So the accident 


took place during the pratanyardasa_ 
Jupiter his 6* lord. Venus is a badhada 
lord for Cancer Langna people. It is very 


easy to identify the bad period of life through the eyes of KCD. He was 
born in Savya group A, 3rd Quarter Deha ~ Taurus, Jeeva = Gemini. He 
was bom with Taurus 3yr-5m-14d dasa Gemini and Tanrus passed 
away peacefully. He was passing Aries dasa from 6-3-1996. Saturn and 
Mars were transiting Jeeva sign oh the fateful day. Moon was in 
Sagittarius 1°30' on 46-2004 at 5:30 AM. Whenever more than one 
malefic transits though Deha or Jeeva sign an untoward incident occurs 
in life. This as sure as the sunrise in the east. Since the Dasa lord has 
moved to 8* place from its natal position, the accident occurred. Any 
planet which moves to 3/6/8/12 from its natal position will invariably 
bring some untoward incidents in life. An incident occurs when a planet 
changes sign, gets retrograde motion or gets combusted, or eclipsed in 
transit. His Taurus is afflicted by the joint aspects of Saturn and Mars. 
Virgo is afflicted by Saturn and Capricorn in squared by Rahu-Ketu 
axis, his 10” house is occupied by Rahn. Since Capricorn is squared by 
Rahu-Ketu axis and 10” house is occupied by Rahu, damage took place 
in left side. We should be grateful to our sages for the development so 
many golden rules for the benefit of mankind. 


Example 93. Left Leg fracture from a motorcycle accident : 
DOB 16-8-1974, 8=10AM, Kolkata, Virgo Lagna; Scorpio Rahu; 
Aquarius Jupiter ®; Taurus Ketu; Gemini Saturn; Cancer Moon, 
Sun, Mercury, Venus; Leo Mars. 


I know him form his childhood. He had multiple operations. He 


(335) 


suffered from Jaundice in 89 July for 3 f 
weeks. Jupiter isretrograde in the 6* hous: 
squared by Rahu-Ketu axis and aspected 
by Mars. Weak Jupiter always produces 
diseases of liver. In Sep 89, his 
appendicitis operation took place. His 
Virgo is aspected by Ketu, Gemini is 
hemmed between malefics. Significator 
of appendicitis Venus is also hemmed 
between malefics. He suffered during Saturn-Jupiter dasa in 1989. in 
July 1994 he met a motorcycle accident during Mercury-Venus dasa, 
Both these planets are placed in the 11* house, hemmed between 
malefics. 11" lord and planets in the 11" house produces many diseases, 
and this is as per views of great astrologer R. Santhanam. Venus is the 
lord of locomotion, Saturn is the significator of limbs. Satum in the 10" 
house aspected by divine Jupiter protected his legs. Pisces and the 12" 
control the left leg. Pisces is aspected by Saturn and Mars. Its lord 
Jupiter is placed in the 6* in direct aspect of Mars. 2"/6"/10" houses of 
the zodiac are afflicted by Ketu. So fracture yogas were latent in the 
horoscope. He was born in Apasaya group B 1" quarter. Deha = Scorpio 
and Jeeve = Pisces. It is always better that the lords of Deha and Jeeva 
signs are-not associated in any manner when one of them is a dire 
malefic like Mars or Saturn. If these are conjoined together or exchange 
aspects, a great calamity is sure to follow. He opened his life with 
balance 6yrs of Gemini dasa. Taurus ruled him between Aug 1980 Aug 
1996. Taurus is occupied by Ketu. Dasa of any sign occupied by a node 
produces grief in life. Its lord has moved to 3 place from its natal 
position and henceproved very inauspicious for him. Any planet which 
moves to 3/6/8/12 from its natal position will produce inauspicious 
incidents. He suffered on physical grounds and failed to continue his 
engineering studies i Maharastra. He dropped out of the college in the 
Pyear. 


(336) 


Example 94. Serious Motorcycle accident multiple fracture on 
both the legs : DOB 2-12-43/00=10AM IST/Kolkata. Leo Lagna, 
Jupiter; Virgo Venus; Scorpio Mercyry, Sun; Capricorn Moon, Ketu, 
Taurus Mars (R), Gemini Satu; Cancer Rahu. 

He was a diploma in Civil Engineering 
and served PDIL Noida for about 36 yrs. 
His lord of Lagna Sun is placed in the 4" 
house, so he had brittle bones. Affliction 
of Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn multiplied his 
sufferings for bone problems. Ketu in the | 
6* house, and its aspect on Virgo also 
indicate multiple: operation yogas. 
Significator of eyes Moon and Sun are 
heavily afflicted. Debilitated Venus added 
fuel to the fire2"/12" houses are afflicted. He met aserious motor cycle 
accident on 13-3-71 during Rahu-Ketu dasa..Rahu-Ketu dasa started 
from 13-3-71. As per KCD he was born inApasavyagroupA I" quarter. 
Sagittarius = Jeeva and Cancer = Deha. On the fateful day he was at the 
fag end of Aries Dasa. Since its lord is retrograde it proved costly for 
him: He was:bded ridden for 7 months. Taurus dasa governed him 
between 13-8-1971 to 13-8-1987. 1974 he had operation for Glucoma 
on the left eye and again in 1974, he had same operation on the right 
eye. Rahu Venus ‘dasa produced operations in the eyes. Rahu is in the 
12", Venus is in his 2x house; both these houses indicate eyes. During 
Jupiter-Saturn he came to Noida and acquired much property in Delhi 
(Vasundhara Enclave,. border town of Noida) and also in Kolkata. 
Strong 8* lord helped him to prosper high in life. His Jupiter is the 5° /8* 
lord. It is severely afflicted by Saturn and Mars. Jupiter provides 
recovery power. In 2007, "he looks like a 80 yrs old man, who can 
hardly manage his business activities. In 2000 AD he lost his wife. 7* 
lord is hemmed between malefics, 7* lord in 11th is a divorce yoga. 
Significatorof wife Venus is debilitated. The house of Venus is afflicted 
by Saturn. Horoscope of Chart 93 is his only son. Jupiter's dasa granted 


(337) 


huge prosperity because it is in the angle of 9* lord Mars. Any planet in 
the angle of 9* lord produces excellent results. 


SPEECH AND HEARING DEFECTS 


To enjoy one's life one should have perfect ears/eyes and perfect 
education. If one is born deaf, he is bound to be dumb or mute. It is a 
curse in life to be bom as blind, deaf and dumb. Build in skin, in muscle, 
and in the various tissues arid organs of the body, our sensory receptors 
of many kinds (heat,cold, taste, pain, smell, vision. an: pressure, 
touch). Those in the outer parts of the body and receiving ir formation 
about the outside world are referred to as exteroceptors; tho: ¢ within 
the body and receiving information about the interior of the body are 
interoceptors. All the various types of receptors are alike in that they 
translates stimulous of some kind in to electro chemical nerve pulses. 
The nervous system is working at a rate equal to that of a large 
computer operating at maximum capacity. It would be no exaggeration 
to say that millions of sensory are transmitting billions of sensations 
per second. The eyes alone are receiving stimuli in 75 to 100 million 
photoreceptor cells, and further stimuli are being received by ears, 
nose, mouth and other body parts. Without this flood of information to 
the brain and nervous system a man would be totally unaware of his 
environment, would be unable to speak, hear, see, taste, smell or feel 
anything and he would also be unaware of the position of his limbs in 
space. Speech and tastes are controlled by tongue: We have read about 
an accident in a Paris tunnel, where princess Diana died, some 
unknown person cut off the tongues of the alil#e parsons spotted after 
the accident, so that they cannot tell anything about the accident 
(tongue is controlled from the 2” house and Mercury). So anything 
defect found in defecting speech, is the work of the defective tongue. 
Hearing is an interpretation by the brain of the impulses arriving from 
nerves supplying the ear, an organ designed to respond to vibrations 
transitted chiefly through the air. If we do not hear, we cannot speak. So 
hearing and speaking channels are interlinked with each other. The 
human ear occupies three cavities in the skull known as the outer. 


(338) 


middle and inner ear chambers. Sound waves entering the outer canal 
cause the tympanum and bony ossicles to vibrate. These vibrations in 
turn produce pressure waves in liquids containing in a spirally coiled 
tube of two and a half turns known as the cochlea. Nerves from the 
cochlea carry impulses to the brain, which then interprets them as 
sounds. Human body mechanisms are too much complicated in nature. 
The children who are born deaf will have problems of expression. They 
cannot speak unless special attention is paid to this aspect. Hearing loss 
retards the process of learning. They feel isolated and may develop 
psychological complexes. 


Astrology of deafness: 


3" house is the house of communications. 3: house of the zodiac is 
Mercury. It governs one's intelligence faculty. So benefic aspect on 3ra 
house/3" lord, Mercury indicates a strong and healthy hearing 
mechanism. A strong Mercury under benefic influences indicate a 
strong and healthy hearing mechanism. Affliction indicate the reverse. 
The 3” house arid 3 lord indicate the right ear, the ]1° house and 11* 
lord indicate the left ear. Benefic influence on 3 house/3" lord, 11° 
house/11" lord indicate the sound health of the ears. To be fortunate 
enough in life one should have a benefic in the 11° house. Benefics in 
1)" and benefics in trines/quadrant saves a man from many litigations 
in life. Strong lagna and its lord offer strict resistances in the initiation 
of diseases. Ascendant is deemed strong when it is aspected by its own 
lord. Venus, Jupiter, or Mercury. These planets in the Ascendant also 
provide good health. The benefics and strong planets in the quadrants 
and trines from the ascendant increase the strength of the; ascendant. 
Strong malefics in trines/especially in quadrants cause the ascendant to 
decay or suffer loss of strength and therefore loss of health. The 
presence of Gajakeshani yoga, Parijata Yoga, Pancha Mahapursh 
Yogas, Adhi Yoga, Vasumati Yoga, Mudrika yoga add to. the general 
strength of the horoscope and therefore promote good health. Yogas for 
disease of ear : a) If 2" or 5" or 9* or 11 * houses are occupied by malefic 


(339) 


planets, without being aspected by benefic planets, the native will have 
deafness. Malefics in 3/9 axis would afflict the right ear and 5/11 axis 

would damage the left ear. b) If 2na and 6* lord be in conjunction, Mars 

and Gulika occupy the ascendant, the 6* 8* or 12" houses, the native's 

ears will be operated. c) Mars of Rahu with malefic in 3“ house. d) 

For Aries Lagna if Mercury is combust e) Mercury in the 4* house 

from Saturn and 6* lord in 6"/8"/1 2* house. f) 6* lord and Mercury in 

the 6* house under the aspect of Saturn. g) Ifthe 6* lord and Mercury 

in 4* house and Saturn in the Ascendant. 


Yogas for defective speech : 


a) 2nd lord and Mercury control our speech. If the 2™ lord is located with 
a benefic planet and situated in quadrant or trine or is in the sign of 
exaltation, is well aspected arid in the company of a male planet, the 
native is a great speaker with logical speaking power. If the 2na lord and 
Jupiter are placed in the 8*, the native will be dumb b) 2nd Jord in any 
dusthana with 4* lord c) 6* lord in the Ascendant under the influence of, 
malefics d) Sun, Moon, Satum in 3%/5"/7"/or 9* without benefic 
aspect. 


Children born deaf and dumb: 


The 8* house represent incurable or chronic or lingering illness. Deaf 
and dumb persons are unfortunate performs devoid of mentionable 
good yogas in their horoscopes. When 9* ‘house and its lord are weak 
and afflicted, everything evaporates in air. When trines/quadrantsare 
not influenced by benefic planets and 8* house/8th lord are afflicted, 
one suffers from chronic disease. Our immunity system is controlled by 
the 8* house. For a child be born deaf (and eventually becoming 
dumb). 3u house/3" lord must show affliction. 8* lord may have 
association with the 3n house/3" lord. It has been found that Rahu-Ketu 
axis involves the 31a house/3" lord or lies in the 2"/12" from them (AM, 
April 1994 P 349). We shall now study a fewcase histories. 


(340) 


Example 95. Born deaf and dumb : DOB 6-5-1966, 1=33 AM, 
Kolkata. Aquarius Lagna; Pisces Venus, Saturn; Aries Mercury 0°14’, 
Mars, Sun; Taurus Rahu; Gemini Jupiter, Scorpio Moon 3-56, Ketu. 


This is the horoscope of an unfortunate 
woman. Both Sun and Moon are afflicted. 
When Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Keru are in the 


angle of 6* lord, such a native suffers from 
severe litigations in life. Her 6* lord is gt 
placed in 10* house with Ketu. 9* lord ous 


Venus is an exalted planet but is afflicted 
with Saturn and Ketu. When 9* house/9* ° vas aa 
lord are weak everything evaporates in air. - 


There is no mentionable Raja Yoga in the 
horoscope. Mercury is an infant planet (<1 °) and is heavily afflicted by 
Mars and Sun. Mars is the bitter enemy of Mercury. For increasing the 
woes, the 3rd house is hemmed between malefics. There is a contact of 
8* lord in the 314 house and the Rahu-Ketu axis is placed the 2nd house of 
3" lord Mars. So all the deaf and dumb yogas are visible in her 
horoscope. She is not a moron for the contact of Jupiter in the 5* house. 
She can smile, can cook and do household duties. Her mother speaks to 
her with fingers. Aspect of Jupiter in Lagna has provided her an idol 
like figure with no voice. We should be grateful tour sages for the 
development of so many golden rules for the benefit of mankind. In 
2007, such babies can be saved easily. 
Hearing aids are available. Treatment 
should be given at an early age. The 
astrologers can help: to identify the 
diseases. 

Example 96. Case of stammering : DOB 
4-4-1941,1] =43 PM, Kolkata. Sagittarius 
Lagna; Capricorn Mars; Aquarius 
Mercury; Pisces Ketu, Sun, Venus; Aries 


(341) 


Saturn, Jupiter; Gemini Moon 18-17; Virgo Rahu. 


This is the horoscope of Dr. M.L. Kundu, doctorate in physics who 
worked as a colleague of the author in PDIL, Sindri. Aspect of 8* lord in 
Lagna reduced his size of personality. 2"/5" lords have exchanged 
places. This parivartan has generated a Maha Yoga for him. However 
the affliction of the 2n house (with Rahu, Mars and Saturn) and 2: Jord 
(debilitated) with Mars, produced stammering. Significator of tongue 
Mercury is hemmed between malefics. This added fuel to the fire. 
Maha Yoga helped him to settle in life in a very nice manner. 


Example 97. Defective right ear : DOB 25-11-1974, 8=30PM, Delhi. 
Gemini Lagna, Satum (R); Libra Mars, Mercury; Scorpio Sun, 
Venus, Rahu; Aquarius Jupiter; Pisces Moon; ‘Taurus Ketu. 


His 6h lord Mars and 5* lord Venus have 
exchanged places forming evil ah Oe, 
Yoga. They will not complete any task 
they undertake. There will’ be several 
impediments to all their undertakings. 
They are all true in his real life. Mars 
Mercury conjunction alone can produce 
ear defects. 3" houe/3" lord re 


Se, 


defect in the right ear. Significator of ears wane 


Sun Ven 


is Mercury. His 3” house is aspected by 

Satum and is squared by Rahu-Ketu axis. 3" lord is placed in the 6* 
(house of disease) with Rahu. Ketu. Satum (R) dasa produced 
problems in the right ear. Dasa of two retrograde planets in 2/12 
relationships only produced physical sufferings for him. On account of 
this reason he dropped out of the school while he was a class XI student. 
With the hearing aid he is running the business of his illustrious father 
Sri A.L Jain, owner of Alpha Publication, New Delhi. 


Example 98. Deafness of both the ears from Aug 1996 - 
DOB 8-11-1976/10=26AM/Delhi. Sagittarius Lagna; Aries Ketu; 


(342) 


Taurus Moon, Jupiter (R), Cancer Saturn; Libra Mars. Mercury, Sun, 
Rahu; Scorpio Venus. 


She is the daughter of a NTPC General 
Manager. Her 11* house is heavily 
afflicted by combust Mars, combust 
Mercury, Sun and Rahu. 3 lord Saturn is 
in the star of Mercury, is squared by Rahu 
Ketu axis. Mercury Mars conjunction 
afflicted by other malefics is very 
dangerous for ears. She had problems in 
both the ears from Aug 1996 (Rahu - | 
Rahu- Saturn). The dasa of three malefic 

planets brought the tragedy in life. She uses hearing aids and has passed. 
BA. 3” house is the remote control of marriage. Afflicted 3 Jord in 8* 

did not arrange marriage upto Jan 2007. Her 6* house is occupied by 

Jupiter (R), Moon and aspected by Venus from 12*. Aspect and 

occupation of three benefics will act as a upachaya house and should 

not ruin her life. Her 5"/11" axis is heavily afflicted. I have always 

observed that whenever 5*/Il* axis is heavily afflicted, everlasting 

dangerous diseases crop up in the body. Her 11°/12™ lords have 

exchanged places forming Dainya yoga. It is an evil yoga and there will 
be several impediments to their all their undertakings. 


THALASSAEMIA A MAJOR DISEASE OF BLOOD 


Now in India thousands of children are bom with this dangerous 
disease. All the children remain normal up to 6/7 months, the disorder 
starts manifesting itself in the form of sluggishness, coupled with 
paling of complexion and an irritable condition. The infant's body fails 
to make enough hemoglobin, due to which. regular blood transfusions 
are required to keep them alive. But each transfusion leaves a 
substantial residue of iron in the child's body, which can damage the 
liver, the heart and the other organs. A regular does of DESFERAL, an 
imported medicine.administered in the body through an expensive 


(343) 


electronic pump, hence required to be given to remove the excess iron 
from the body, after the Child turns three. The frequency of Desferal 
administration and blood transfusion increases as the child grows 
older. Thalassaemid is a hereditary, dreadful, blood-borne genetic 
disorder passed down from the parents to child through genes. So 
match blood groups before horoscope matching for marriage. About 
500 millions are affected by this dangerous disease in the beginning of 
21" century. It occurs mainly in the Mediterranean countries/In Delhi 
about 500 children are born each year with this highly dangerous 
disease. The treatment is very costly. It costs about Rs.20,000/month. 
Blood the circulatory fluid within the blood vessels is a complex 
substance. It consists of a fluid portion, the plasma (55%) and various 
cells and cell products (RBC, WBC and platelets 45% total). Red 
blood cells contain large amount of hemoglobin, a portion of great 
importance for carrying oxygen and to lesser extent for carrying carbon 
dioxide (co,). The chief function of white blood cells is to protect the 
body against bacteria. The pus that forms in an infected wound in 
largely white blood cells that have died fighting bacteria. The platelets 
are much smaller than either RBC or WBC. They contain a substance 
that play a key role in the clotting of blood. There are 2,50,000 of them 
in each CC of blood. During the first eight weeks of a pregnancy, RBC 
are born in the embryo /foetus in the yolk sac within mother's womb. 
For the next five months, spleen and thymus gland of the embryo take 
central of the blood forming process. After the birth of a child RBC is 
formed in red bone marrow and continues up to nearly 20 years, after 
which RBC is formed only in the hollow spaces of upper end of the 
largest bones of humans are femur filled with bone marrow. For a 
normal healthy person, the average life of RBC is 20 days. After that 
these are destroyed and the iron from RBC gets deposited in kidney, 
spleen, liver and bone marrow and recycled into fresh hemoglobin in 
the body. Hemoglobin is made up of two components 1) ‘Haem' of iron 
in the ferrous state (Fe*} and 2) 'globin' protein which helps the iron to 
remain in the ferrous state Globin like any other proteins in the living 


(344) 


cell is a very complex substance made up of certain number of builder 
blocks called arhinoacids arranged in a certain sequence. Any change 
of one or two atoms in the protein molecules produce entirely different 
substance. The globin protein being the most important component of 
red blood cells (RBC) consists of two pairs each of alpha (with 141 
amino acids) and beta (with 146 amino acids) polycentric chains, the 
synthesis of which is under the sole control of gene. The cause of 
thalassaemia is therefore attributed to the abnormal structural in alpha 
and beta gene. The union of male semen and female ovum give birth to 
a child. The male carries one x and one y sex chromosomes and the 
female carries a pair of x sex chromosomes. The affected child inherits 
one out of a pair of abnormal chromosomes from its father and the other 
from its mother. Thalassaemia is thus a hereditary, autosomal genetic 
disorder with 25 % recurrence risk in each pregnancy. The symptoms of 
thalassaemia diseases are |) Anaemia hemoglobin content less than 10 
gm / deciliter; 2) enlargement of spleen, liver and heart by the 
deposition of excess iron 3) skeletal deformities and decay of teeth due 
to deficiency of calcium level 4) glandular (endocrine glands) problem 
causing retarded growth, disturbed pubertal development, diabetes 5) 
liver related problems such as jaundice, cerosis of liver 6) blackening 
of skin due to absorption of iron, vitamin C deficiency due to excess 
iron. Blood plasma is very slightly alkaline and its chemical balance is 
extremely delicate, if the blood becomes slightly acid, as it does in the 
event of diabetes, coma and eventual death may result. If the alkalinity 
increases, as it can with too much deep breathing, a person may lose 
consciousness. Malfunctioning of kidney bring about a change in the 
viscosity of blood and consequent increase or decrease of blood 
pressure. The globulins function as antibodies to deal with foreign and 
toxic molecules. 


Astro Diagnosis of Thalassaemia ; 


Moon and Mars are the significators of blood. Blood is ruled by the 
signs Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces, 4*/8*/ 12" houses from Lagna, Sun & 
Moon. Blood in the heart is governed by the sign Leo. Sun gives 


(345) 


oxygen, Mars gives colour and hemoglobin. Colouring agents are ruled 
by the sign Scorpio and the planet Mars and Pluto. Composition of the 
blood is ruled ,by the sign Aquarius and its lord Saturn. Heart and 
enrichment of minerals is maintained by Sim, Mars and Jupiter. Blood 
cerum is ruled by the sign Cancer. Hemoglobin is ruled by the sign 
Scorpio and Pluto. WBC or leukocytes are called as defender of the 
body shows endurance capacity and are maintained in spleen, 
principally it is work of Satum. Satum afflicted in Virgo produces 
spleen disorders. When the three hylegs Lagna, Sun and Moon are not 
afflicted, one does not suffer from any disease.. Our body luster is 
controlled by Venus. The afflictions of Sun. Moon, Lagna, Lagnalord, 
Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces, and 4"/ 8"/ 12” houses from Moon, Lagna and 
Sun causes this disease. Mars, Venus. Moon, Sun, Jupiter also should 
be afflicted. At least two places from Lagna. Moon, Sun and natural 
Zodiac (4* / 8* / 12* houses) should be afflicted for any dangerous 
disease of blood since this disease is inherited from parents, therefore 
4* 9* and 10” houses should be afflicted. 


Example 99: DOB 10.08.1966/ 16:55 Hrs./ Delhi Sagittarius Lagna; 
Pisces Saturn (R), Taurus Moon 4-53 Gemini Mars, Jupiter, Cancer 
Sun, Mercury. Venus; Leo Pluto, Uranus; Libra Neptune, Ketu. 


This is the horoscope of a female who was 


pulled down by her destiny pattern as soon 
as Rahu-Saturn dasa dominated her Nea 
between 03.01.1991 to 09.09.1993. She > 


was in coma in July 1993. Rahu-Saturn 
dasa in 2/12 relationships soaked her in 
the ocean of sufferings. Dasa of. two 


retrograde planets are never good. Rahu 

Saturn or Saturn Rahu dasa is bad for 99% Vas aw 
person of this cosmos. Her 4* / 8* / 12* 

houses of Lagna are afflicted. 4* / 8* / 12" houses of Moon, 4* /8"/12" 


house of Sun and Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces are afflicted. Her 4* house, 9* 


(346) 


house and 10* house of the natural Zodiac are afflicted confirming 
hereditary disease and also confirms her past sins. When 5* / 11" axis is 
afflicted one catches dangerous disease. Her Rahu Ketu axis passes 
through 5" 71} * houses. Her Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Sun and Moon are all 
afflicted Sun and Moon are hemmed between malefics. Since all the 
hylegs of life are afflicted she died in 1995 during Rahu-Mercury dasa. 
Rahu-Mercury dasa is bad for 99% persons of this earth. Square 
position of two planets yielded worst results for her. Exchange of 6*/8* 
lords added fuel to the fire. In fact 6* /8* lords should be weak in the 
horoscope. Strong 6* lord increases litigations in life. Since 8* lord is 
hemmed between malefics, she died at a young age. 


Example 100 : 20.09.2001 /21:00 Hrs. / Delhi Aires Lagna; Taurus 
Satum; Gemini Jupiter, Rahu; Leo Venus; Virgo Sun; Libra Mercury, 
Moon; Scorpio Pluto; Sagittarius Mars, Ketu; Capricorn Uranium, 
Neptune. Here the baby boy was bom with 


Rahu Sun dasa and suffered from the 
dangerous disease as soon as Rahu-Moon Hp 
dasa opened at age of 2. Cancer is afflicted 


by Satum, Scorpio is afflicted by Pluto and Ran 
Satum, Pisces is afflicted by Sun and 
Mars. 4" / 8" /12" houses of Moon and Sut 


are also afflicted. Moon is afflicted by 6* 
lord Mercury, Sun is squared by Rahu 
Ketu axis' Jupiter is afflicted by Rahu and 


Mars, Lagna is receiving the malefic aspect of 6* ied: lord of lagna is 
afflicted by Ketu. His 4*, 5*, 9* and 10* houses of Janma Lagna are 
afflicted confirming his hereditary disease. He 1s alive in 2007. 


(347) 


