Vedic Astrology Series 


Advanced 
Techniques of 
Astrological 
Predictions 


Preface 


The glowing review of the first edition of this book in The Astrological 
Magazine (January 1992) created a demand for another edition 
published in 1994 and now the third one is published. 


Sansthan has published many standard books on Astrology after this 
book. 


The second volume of this book will also be published in this year. 
Sansthan is committed to make available research articles and standard 
books to the readers. 


BPES.V. Sansthan 


16. 
17, 


Contents 


Preface. 20005 6.04 (AGL eben e dts ode eto a ddd 4 
About the Contributors... 0.0.00. eee ee 
Introduction»). 5.55 ote eines oe Bie Resale Sec anecellecis KN Rao 

Evolution of Cosmology . *..............- R N Vashistha 

Education for a Career and the 

Tension of Parents............ 00000000 u ee M N Kedar 

Service or Self-employment? 

Test the Thumb Rules................-... S NKapoor 
Profession and Planetary Influences. ......... R C Sharina 
Career Prospects and Ashtakavarga 

Applied to Vimshottari Dasha.............. P CVerma 

Authors and Journalists : 

An Astrological Enquiry.................: Col A K Gour 
Successful Indian Women 

in Different Fields..................000 Kusum Sharma 
Tajik Shastra and 

Marriage Timing of Event. ........ Dr R K Wishwakarma 

Role of Dashas in Marital Discord... . . Shiv Raj Sharma 

Marital Disharmony...................-. Shunny Nigam 
Jaimini Astrology and 

General Elections in India. ............. Y K Bansal Yogi' 

Kaal Sarpa Yoga : Part L...............0005. Z Ansari 
Disease : Its Onset and Outcome ...... . Dr K § Charak 


Prasthar-Ashtakavarga System of Prediction 

with Accurate Time Period .......... Dr D K Aggarwal 
Mystic Trio in Astrology.................. B P Malviya 
Role of Darakaraka in Vimshottari Dashas ... Supriya Jagdish 


1 
9 


15 


32 
50 


68 


80 


90 


104 
120 
140 


160 
180 
191 


219 
230 
236 


About the Contributors 


Aggarwal, R.K. (Dr.) 


A medical doctor in the Indian Railways, he has been doing astrology 
for many years and excels in the use of Ashtakavarga for timing events. 


Ansari, Z. 
A Muslim from Bihar, Ansari, an officer of the Indian Audit 
Department, has translated three works of Dr. B.V. Raman into Hindi 


and has done a lot of original work. A very successful predictor, he 
teaches astrology in the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan, New Delhi. 


Bansal, Y.K. 

An engineer by profession, Bansal is the topper of the first batch of 
Visharad of ICAS, with record marks which remains unbroken till date. 
He taught astrology in the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan till his transfer on 
promotion to Tezpur (Assam) in Military Engineering Service. 


Charak, K.S. (Dr.) 

A Master of Surgery from Delhi, and a Fellow of the Royal College 
of Surgeons from U.K., Dr. Charak who has been doing astrology since 
1975 topped in the Visharad examination (1991), wrote the best book 
on Annual Horoscopy or Varshaphala, visited USA along with K.N. 
Rao to attend the Second International Symposium on Vedic Astrology 


(Nov. 1993) where his teaching brought him a second invitation to the 
USA for 1994, 


Gour, A.K. (Col) 

A tetired army officer, he teaches like Dr. Charak in the Bharatiya Vidya 
Bhawan and is also his batch-mate. In 1993 he produced the best book 
on Professions containing his original and fundamental researches. 


Jagdish, Supriya 
Daughter of the famous and celebrated astrologer, Shri Hardeo Sharma 
Trivedi, editor of the Vishwavijay Panchanga and the Jyotishmatijearnt 


astrology in Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan. She has been doing deep 
researches in Jaimini Astrology and now edits the Jyotishmat: (Hindi). 


vu 


Kapoor, S.N. 


A member of Delhi's Higher Judicial Service, Kapoor combines 
technical depth of astrological knowledge with a rare intuition. He has 
the rare ability to go into the least explored area of astrology and produce 
most stimulating and original researches. He is the Controller of 
Examination of the ICAS and teaches in the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan. 


Kedar, M.N. 


The most experienced and successful astrologer after K.N. Rao, Kedar’s 
astrological ability is multifaceted and his precise educational, marriage 
and career counselling easily puts him in the top bracket of world's 
successful astrologers. He retired as an officer from the Indian Audit 
Department. 


Malviya, B.P. 

Learning astrology along with M.N. Kedar in 1979 from K.N. Rao, 
Malviya has concentrated mostly on esoteric astrology, his forte. He is 
an authority on the Tulsi-KritaRamcharita Manas in Hindi. A Deputy 
Director (Hindi) in the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General 
of India, he devotes more time to sadhana and does astrology 
occasionally, only. 


Nigam, Shunny 

A medical representative by profession ar@ a Jyotish Visharad (1990), 
Shunny Nigam has produced original researches on children born dum": 
and deaf. He uses annual horoscopes, horary and Jaimini astrology for 
his successful predictions, which are many. 


Rao, K.N. 


Author of nine books, he was the chief guest at the Second International 
Symposium on Vedic Astrology in November 1993 at San Rafael, 
California, USA. About his impact on US astrologers, Dr. David 
Frawley wrote, "Perhaps no Vedic Astrologer has made such an 
immediate and strong impact in the West from a single such visit. Rao's 
impact was so great that here we can only speak of Vedic Astrology 
before and after Rao. Before Rao it was and isolated, unorganized and 
undirected movement, lacking the spark of inspiration and steady 
guidance. After Rao it has become a directed and vital movement 
developing in many different areas." 


Sharma, Kusum 


Now Kusum Vashishta after her marriage, she is the youngest member 
of the teaching faculty in the astrology classes of the Bharatiya Vidya 


vil 


Bhawan. She has already established herself as a top-rank woman 
astrologer of northern India. 


Sharma, R.C. 


A high level engineer in the Indian Railways, Sharma is the topper in 
Visharad of his batch. He has devised his own astrology programme on 
the computer and has been in great demand among his circles for 
astrological consultations. He is already distinguished as a successful 
predictor. 


Sharma, Shivraj 
Now a teacher in the astrology classes in the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan, 
Shivraj Sharma is a very original and fundamental researcher in 


astrology. Employed in the Delhi Cloth Mills, as an officer, he is 
currently engaged in deep research in the role of Rahu in a horoscope. 


Vashistha, R.N. 


Retired additional secretary of the government of India, formerly a 
member of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service like K.N. Rao, he 
teaches astronomy to the astrology classes in the Bharatiya Vidya 
Bhawan. He has produced many original papers on Hindu astronomy. 
He is currently engaged in producing a book on Hindi astronomy. 


Verma, P.C. 


An engineer by profession, Verma has devised his own computer 
programme of astrology. His researches on Ashtakavarga will be 
published in course of time. He makes use of rare techniques of 
Ashtakavarga to time events very successfully. 


Wishwakarma, R.K. (Dr.) 


A professor in the prestigious Indian Institute of Public Administration, 
Wishwakarma is the author of nine books on public administration and 
expert in his professional line. He has been doing astrology for over three 
decades. He uses Ashtakavarga and annual horoscopes for very 
successful predictions. He teaches these subjects to astrology students 
of the Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan. 


Introduction 
KN Rao 


Tye need felt by us to bring out this compilation of research papers 
produced by the members of the teaching staff and the students of the 
Indian Council of Astrological Sciences, Delhi Chapter One (Bharatiya 
Vidya Bhawan), New Delhi is being explained. 

The production of books on astrology in India in English and various 
languages, and, in the west, is so frequent that a keen student of 
astrology who can afford to buy these books gets confused after reading 
them. Some of these books may initiate a student into what may appear 
to be an astrological process and the discipline of making predictions 
‘without actually teaching the techniques of predictions. There is no 
single book in’ the market which gives dependable technique of 
prediction. 

Astrology, a divine science, is a purely predictive science only and 
its demand and utility is also because it is a predictive science. There 
are patterns everywhere in nature, in the life of a microbe, in weather, 
in human life and situations etc. which repeat at a given point of time. 
Predicting the emergence of such patterns at a particular time is what 
an astrologer alone can do. To know about such patterns and to know, 
in advance, the time when they would show up is what an astrological 
prediction is. 

What then are successful astrological techniques which can be 
replicated? The question asked by physical scientists as to how planets 
so far offcan affect human destiny springs from their dogmatic belief 
that a science can only be a direct relation between the physically visible 
cause to the physically visible effect. Some of the open-minded scientists 
may be convinced with proofs of the physically visible effects, like dates 
of rainfall, sea-storms, mundane events when shown, not the physically 
visible cause, but a line of astrological reasoning, scientifically arrived 
at. 

This can be done only when enough statistical researches are done. 
Those astrologers who talk only of intuition and not the need for 


2 


statistical researches should know that without statistical researches, 
intuition can function only in a vacuum. 

Statistical researches are of three types, as far as astrology is 
concerned: 


(a) The first type is impressive only with the statistics it collects. Michel 
Gauquelin's findings that Mars occupies a prominent position in 
the horoscopes of men in medical profession or that Jupiter occupies 
a similar position in the horoscope of men in legal profession is not 
useful in making a correct prediction about careers and profession. 
It is not a valid piece of astrological research but does make the 
physical scientist wonder if frontiers of science extend beyond the 
borders he has been taught to accept as its last known post. 


(b) The second type of statistical research is based on full horoscope, 
study of planetary patterns, time-cycles, whether of transiting 
planets or dasha-systems. Such researches provide a useful break- 
through and help astrologers predict with ease and confidence. 


(c) The third type of statistical research is micro-in-depth research on 
a few selected cases. It resembles a doctor's diagnosis of a disease. 
The doctor asks the patient to undergo many medical tests, like X- 
rays, scanning etc. to arrive at a proper diagnosis through 
elimination. An astrologer who does not cast various’ divisional 
horoscopes and use different dasha systems and Ashtakavarga is like 
a doctor who does not believe in so many tests. 


But to prepare all these and use them is what astrologers do not do 
because there is no book on the use of these predictive tools. And there 
are astrologers and astrologers who have written books after books 
which, totally useless as they are, teach nothing. True, there are writers 
who have written some useful books on classical techniques of 
predictions. But their books have two serious deficiencies: the first they 
have not understood the classical techniques sufficiently well to be able 
to illustrate them and secondly, worse, still they have not been able to 
show through various examples how different techniques should be 
fused into a more precise and effective predictive technique. Hints about 
such fusion of the Parashari system with Jaimini astrology are available 
in Jatak Tattqwa. 

But we have writers claiming to have written a dozen books not one 
of which answers the need of the student in search of dependable 
technique of prediction. 

The researches in this collection belong to the second and third types 
of statistical researches mentioned above, not of the first type which is 


3 


massive in volume, like a giant of an iceberg, but teaches nothing useful 
to an astrologer. 

Intensive in-depth micro-researches when expanded become macro- 
researches. They cannot be understood by physical scientists. They 
cannot even be appreciated by astrologers who do not know different 
systems of vedic astrology and the use of divisional horoscopes. 

Many of the researches in this collection are super-technical 
researches which can be understood only by astrologers who have good 
and wide training in the classical technique of Vedic astrology. These 
are researches by astrologer-students for astrologers. 

The Delhi Chapter One initiated such researches as earty as 1989, 
in the third year of its decision to start astrology classes in the Bharatiya 
Vidya Bhawan, New Delhi. The first such research was a complex one 
by Y.K. Bansal, the topper of the Visharad examination of 1989. It is 
on general elections in India and Jaimini astrology. The research was 
so sound that he made a prediction (not publicised as he fell sick soon 
after) that elections would be announced on or around October 18th, 
1989 the basis being the transit of Rahu and its effect as seen through 
Jaimini aspect. Elections were announced round about this date. On this 
very basis another prediction was made, this time in writing in Vishwa 
Vijay Panchanga (Hindi) that mid-term poll would be held after the 
entry of Saturn in Capricorn in 1991 and before the entry of Rahu in 
Sagittarius (April 1991). The President of India announced the 
dissolution of the Lok Sabha in March 1991 and the stage was set for 
mid-term poll as clearly foreseen astrologically. 


The second astrological research was on Kaala Sarpa Yoga by 
Z. Ansari‘in two parts, with other parts remaining to be done. The first 
part is being published in this collection. 

Dr. R.K. Vishwakarma, like Z. Ansari produced his research in 1990 
on predicting Marriages through annual horoscopes or Varshaphala. 

The researches by students got an impetus only in the early part of 
1991 when students of Visharad of picvious two batches produced their 
paper on ‘Professional Inclination’ on nearly a hundred horoscopes to 
understand and explain why a person with an academic background 
entirely unsuited for his present profession, had to ‘incline’ towards it 
under the weight of planets in his horoscope and the crucial dasha 
running at a given time. But this major research will take more in-depth 
analysis before it becomes ripe for publication. 

In the meantime Visharad students decided to do in-depth micro- 
researches by applying well-known predictive techniques, the well- 
known Parashari and the lesser known Jaimini aspects and dashas. It 


4 


is only such researches that can become useful and valid predictive 
techniques, being reliable statistically, answering the welcome accusa- 
tidn that the principles of replication do not apply to astrological 
predictions. 

It is reasonable to assert that these researches teach predictive 
techniques which can be replicated a thousand times, with more than 
ninety percent or even hundred percent accuracy. These researches teach 
predictive techniques, will help shape reliable predictive tools, will 
awaken the veteran astrologer to the need to make a multi-pronged 
approach to a prediction. 

These researches are the products of our concept of sharing 
knowledge, with the members of the teaching faculty passing on to 
student, their own partly done researches and asking them to test 
further, show their shortcomings, initiate a discussion if an impasse is 
reached, and prove or disprove it. 

The reason for our exuding with confidence with our experiments 
of sharing knowledge is that the mental equipment our students have 
is what it should be, if it is remembered that they are medical doctors 
(M.D.'s, F.R.C.S.'s), engineers, high placed government officers, 
M.B.A.S, lecturers, teachers, post-graduates, businessmen, industrialists, 
bank officers, each of them individually and collectively being 
conversant with the techniques of researches in their own fields. 


Three features of these researches are: 


(a) They are fundamental, being based on the fundamental principles 
of classical Vedic astrology. Sdme fundamental researches done in 
this century like’“Meena’s nakshatra-based predictions (later 
adopted by K.S. Krishnamurthy) and Sheshadri Iyer's Yogi- 
Avayogi have not been tested statistically though they appear very 
impressive. Otherwise it can be said safely that the better-known 
writers of the books of astrology have produced no fundamental 
researches themselves except some writers after 1980. 

A fundamental research is a fusion of different fundamental 
classical principles in a harmonious way to arrive at a point of 
discovery never discovered before. 


Some instances may be seen: 


* Women have risen when in Chara dasha they were running the 
period of a rashi containing Amatyakaraka or if the 10th house 
from that rashi had Amatyakaraka. (Kusum Sharma) 


¢ The principle of the Darakaraka can be extended profitably to 
Vimshottari dasha. (Supriya Jagdish) 


(b) 


(c) 


5 


p Inthe Vimshottari dasha, of the 5th, 6th and 8th lords or planets 
in those houses, marital tension could reach a point of explosion. 
(Shivraj Sharma) 


p Malefics in the second house from Upapada show marital 
tension more clearly than any other of the six rules tested. 
(Shunny Nigam) 

p Bonding of the 3rd, 5th and 10th lords from Lagna, and with 
slight modification from Karakamsha, with Jupiter and 
Mercury playing prominent roles, revealed talent for writing. 
(Col. A.K. Gour) 


p Influence of technical planets on the 10th house from 
Karakamsha, particularly Rahu, could take one to the profession 
of an engineer. (R.C. Sharma) 


p Consolidated Prastharaka of seven planets used with Vimshottari 
dasha can give pin-pointed results in accurate timing of events. 


(Dr. R.K. Aggarwal) 


p The rashi dasha of a planet in Mrityu Bhag is disease-producing. 
(Dr. KS. Charak FRCS.) 


p Vimshottari dasha if divided into eight equal parts and related 
to the relevant Prastharaka of the tenth lord in the rashi where 
he is posited can indicate good and bad trends in one's 
professions. (P.C. Verma) 


The percentages worked out in these researches are impressive. 


The second notable feature of these researches is that they are 
composite in an innovative way. In S.N. Kapoor's paper in which 
he worked out thumb rule for finding the chances of employment 
or self-employment he has used Parmatmansha planets and tattwas 
along with the prominent axis of planets in horoscopes which is 
actually Nabhas Yogas in actual application. Three new elements 
getting fused into the otherwise familiar technique of prediction 
makes it a composite one. 

Similarly M.N. Kedar's paper on educational pattern and YK. 
Bansal's on general elections are composite in being a fusion of less 
used elements of classical astrology into prediction. But while Kedar 
takes a divergent line in making use of even Chaturvimshamshaetc., 
Bansal uses Jaimini's transits on Indian Independence and Republic 
horoscopes. 


The inevitable third feature of these researches is that they are 
multi-data based researches which lends to even a micro-research 


the scope of flexible expansion into a macro research at any time. 
Actually all these features must have been used by old astrologers 
without sharing them with even their students or disciples. They 
made great predictions in the traditional and familiar areas and led 
pure and honest lives. They had fine intuitive powers. But is 
intuitive power alone enough without sound techniques? 


Role of Intuition 


A few gifted men have fine powers of intuition. They see the ultimate 
quickly, not always, but often. In a city in northern India there is an 
old astrologer who told a famous industrialist (when he told him that 
he was going to buy a helicopter) that to preserve what he had would 
be a miracle. Twenty years later this industrialist became a total 
bankrupt and died bankrupt. But then what about the intermediate 
twenty years? That gifted intuitive astrologer gave ‘ng prediction though 
in the intervening twenty years this industrialist had achieved a good 
deal. Similarly he told another rich man that he should have a second 
son as the first born, a son, would be the cause of his ruin. For thirty 
next years the rich man became richer. Then his son became his enemy 
and there was a quarrel between father and son and the son committed 
suicide. In both cases the ultimate was predicted and the intermediate 
left out of astrological scrutiny. 


In predicting about the immediate too intuition has a role. But how 
often and how quickly does intuition function? Intuition is the voice 
of God in every man which more often than not is stilled by mercenary 
considerations, malicious attitudes, and of course the corruption of the 
age we live in. 

What then is the way out. It can be: 


(a) The first step is to learn sound techniques because one or two or 
three of them may suit you temperamentally. There are some 
astrologers who make good predictions through transits and 
Vimshottari dasha — in fact a majority. There are others who use 
other dasha systems and also Ashtakavarga — they are fewer. If 
both are compared, it will be seen that the percentage of success 
of the latter is higher. 


(b) Parashara has spoken of jntellectual excellence, technical excellence 
and moral excellence as being the elements of success in astrological 
predictions. If moral excellence alone is stressed, the technical 
deficiency remains. If technical and moral excellence are there but 
no intellectual range the meaning of complex events will elude the 
astrologer because he cannot 'see' it. For instance a teacher in our 


7 


_ faculty told an important man that he was seeing a big position for 
him after suffering a humiliation at the hands of a woman. In the 
modern political context it meant defeat in general elections by a 
woman but still acquisition of al high gubernatorial post. It 
happened exactly as predicted. So the second step has to be good 
life which should be generally spiritual life with emphasis on good 
conduct. 


(c) Then there is the intellectual equipment. In this the students we 
have in Delhi Chapter One are far superior to many better known 
and successful astrologers. The emphasis is on sound astrological 
training in these techniques. The moral and intellectual excellence 
is either there or not there. 


A great astrologer combines in his life all the three types of 
excellencies. Sub-standard astrologers know only some elementary 
techniques. They are a menace to the society and are responsible for 
destroying the sanctity and credibility of astrology. 

Our only aim is to produce sound astrologers. Some of them may 
be very good, some good, some ordinary. Our limited aim is to equip 
them technically properly only. To do it they must first be convinced 
that these techniques work. 

If these techniques work what else have they to have? They should 
pose the questions to themselves and seek an honest answer honestly 
through introspection. 

But we are proving that these techniques work because they are 
replicable. 


~ K N Rao 


Evolution of Cosmology 


RN Vashistha 


\asmology is the science and study of ‘Cosmos’, the universe or the 
‘Brahmanda’ (#@NS). It probes into the mystery of the origin of the 
‘Cosmos’, its evolution with time, and its likely end. It deals also with 
the physical concepts of 'Space’ (S&T) and 'Time’ (a#Teum). This 
knowledge concerns itself with the universal forces that drive the entire 
material universe — its matter and energy (314 ata), to enquire how 
both matter (geal, Gre J ag ata), and the energy were originally created 
and how these undergo changes and what will be their final fate. This 
science has not been static since ages and its evolution with time is the 
subject matter of this article. 

Man has been wondering from the very ancient times about the Earth 
(on which he is born and has survived), about the Sun, the Moon, the 
moving planets, and the relatively fixed stars, about'Space', 'Time’ and 
Life’ itself. Religious savants and great philosophers meditated on these 
basic issues and gave their postulates. 

The Holy Bible, in the first book, chapter I deals with this riddle of 
‘Genesis’ in the following way: 

"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth .. . And 
the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God 
said, Let there be light; and there was light ... And God called 
the light Day, and the darkness he called Night .. . And God said, 
let there be a firmament in he midst of the waters, and let it divide 
the waters from the water ... And God called the firmament 
Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day 
... And God said, let the waters under the heaven be gathered 
together and let the dry land appear, and it was so. And God called 
the dry land Earth; and gathering together of the waters called he 
Seas . .. 

After that of course, grass, herbs, seed, fruit trees, lights in the 
firmament, signs and seasons, days and years, the Moon and stars 
to rule over the night, and the Sun to rule over the Day; moving 


10 


creatures that have life; the fowl that may fly; whales, cattle, 
creeping things, beasts of earth; and finally in His image with 
dominion over the fish, the fowl, the cattle, creeping creatures; and 
the male and the female, were all created in six days and were 
ordained to be fruitful and multiply". 


St. Augustine in his book City of God accepted the time 5000 B.C. 
for the creation of the Universe, in accordance with the Book of Genesis. 
It may be mentioned here that the last Ice age was around 10,000 B.C. 

In other regions of the world, each people (races etc.) gave their own 
version of the origin of the universe. In Bharat Varsha (present Indian 
continent) rishis and great philosophers and savants, in Vedas, 
Vedantas, Jyotish Shashtras, Puranas, Epics, gave their formulations as 
deciphered by them in their concentrated studies. Padma Pur, ana gives 
a detailed desscription. Surya Siddhanta too gives its formulation of the 
cycles of creation and dissolution of the Universes. ‘Upanishadic 
Cosmogony' was fully developed, linking up the ‘Absolute’ Brahma with 
the creator Brahma, and the entire creation. Taran wT sR 
Chhandoyga Upanishad, 11-14.1. Tajjalan' is that from which all things 
spring forth, into which they are resolved; and in which they live and 
have their being; that which abides in the midst of all changes. Similarly, 
Svetasvataropanisbad states, That from whom we are born, in whom 
do we live and have our being: ‘f& Ri Fel Ga CW Tet say HA 
wa aaa. 

So Upanishads niake the Absolute Brahma the original cause of all 
Cosmos. Our rishis had a composite view of Brahma Vidya which was 
indivisible knowledge. So the divine Science would go further into 
details from astronomy (the detailed structure and movement of 
heavenly bodies) and its consequences, or effects or rather the very spirit 
ie. astrology. Jyotish consisted both of the sciences of astronomy and 
astrology (and of course, Cosmology). Hence it was a Vedanga and a 
divine science. 

Surya Siddhanta, which was commented upon in detail by Arya 
Bhatia’, Jyotishacharya in 5th century. A.D. and also by Varahamihira, 
gives detailed calculations of motions of planets (including Rahu), their 
true places (longitudes, latitudes and declinations), physical methods 
(dials, gnomon, and structures etc.), about solar and lunar eclipses, about 
planetary conjunctions, about star signs and lunar Nakshatras, of 
dimensions of the Earth and the Cosmic sphere, the north pole (Sumeru 
mountain) with the Earth's axis. This very Surya Siddhanta gives the 
following picture regarding various periods of time since the origin of 
the universe: 


II 


About 'Time' it says in Chapter I (verse 11-24): six pranas make a 
vinadi; 60 vinadis, a nadi; sixty nadis make one day-night; 29 sidereal 
days make a month; a solar month* is determined by the Sun's entry 
into a zodiacal sign; twelve months make a year which is a day of the 
gods; 360 such gods!’ days (i.e earth's years) make a year of the gods, 
12,000 of these divine years make a maha yuga period (i.e. 4,320,000 
solar years = 1 chaturyuga); 1000 such ages (chaturyuga) make a Kalpa, 
an Aeon (a Kalpa has 4,320,000,000 solar years); A Kalpa is a day of 
Brahma, and it brings about the destruction of all that exists; Brahma's 
full age is 100 years. In the Puranas (refer to Vishnu Purana) this period 
is called 'Para' and its half ‘Parardha’; the current period is the first Aeon 
of 2nd half of Brahma's life. 


We may recall that in 1830’s when there was raging controversy 
between the Anglicists and the Orientalists about the system of 
education in India, Lord Macaulay spoke very derisively of the Indian 
Oriental knowledge; he particularly referred to our cosmoloyg delving 
into lakhs and crores of years. Lord Curzon, earlier, had also 
contemptuously remarked that in Indian scriptures there does not seem 
to be any consideration of the Supreme Virtue of Truth. 

But if we compare, for instance, the picture that is emerging from 
western cosmology, after their very scientific (theoretical and experi- 
mental) research, we find’that their best estimates give the origin of the 
universe with 'Big Bang’ about 10 to 20 billion years ago, and the 
estimate of the Solar System (the Sun, the Earth, and the Moon having 
nearly the same age) as having come into existence about 4.3 billion 
years ago, which incidentally tallies with Kalpa or Brahma's day given 
in Surya Siddhanta. How was Surya Siddhanta able to give this 
assessment thousands of years ago when modern science has come to 
this estimate only in the current century (only a few decades ago, in fact)? 
Does it not say a lot about the marvel of ancient Indian Cosmology? 

It thus appears from the above that the birth of Cosmology in India 
is as ancient as the Vedic period, the birth of Upanishads and the ancient 
astronomical Siddhantas like the Surya Siddhanta. Let us now examine 
its growth in the West till the modern Science of Cosmology. 

We have seen that in the West, the first attempt to explain the 
beginning of the Cosmos was made in the Book of Genesis in the Holy 
Bible. Then it passed to the domain of early philosophers. We have 
noticed that St. Augustine accepted the time of Genesis as about 5000 
B.C. In early Greek philosophy too, the primary impulse to thought 
came from the cosmologic, and more so from Cosmogonic speculation. 
The starry heavens above, the changing seasons, the astronomical 


‘ 


12 


phenomenon, impelled the natural inquirers. Aristotle tells us that the 
early Greek Cosmologists conceived of their ‘primary substance' —: The 
Substratum — of Things. Aristotle gave his doctrine of ‘Matter and 
Form’. The conception of a primary 'Void' or 'Night’ (like the 
Upanishadic concept of Neti or not-being) is met in the Greek 'theory 
of Epimenides’. 

From earlier Cosmology and Cosmogony, developed detailed 
searches and observations leading to development of astronomy. 
Aristarchus of Samos (B.C. 310-250) was the Greek astronomer who 
did assert that the Earth is in orbit around the Sun. Hipparchus 
(150 B.C.) had noticed the slow slippage of Equinox in the Zodiac (ie. 
the precession of equinox) though cold not explain its true cause. Of 
course, the sack of Alexandria and destruction of its great library resulted 
in much loss of the advanced research. 

Mythology has also got a lot of astronomical knowledge. The story 
of how, at the end of the Golden Age, the Sun was displaced from his 
path by Phaethon (the Sun's son) losing control of the solar chariot, 
or the story of how god ‘Zeus, got disgusted by the cannibalistic dish 
served by 'Lykaon’ and kicked over the table, actually refers to the slow 
and gradual displacement of the familiar constellations marking the 
vernal and autumnal equinoxes by the new constellations. During the 
Golden Age, the milky way (our own galaxy), linking Gemini and 
Sagittarius constellations, had coincided with the Sun's equinotical place 
(then in Gemini). Then came Phaethon’s fall and the advent of the 
‘silver age’, when Taurus (and Scorpio) dominated the Sun's equinoxes. 
(Currently; the Sun's Spring equinox, around March 21, is in Pisces). 
The equinox has thus regressed from its position in Gemini in 
mythological eras to the current Pisces ie. by more than 90 degrees, 
corresponding to a time span of 6500 years. 


There are many archaeological finds linking ancient astronomical 
practices. A few may be mentioned as logical in various regions of the 
world. A prehistoric observatory at Rajun-el-Hiri on Golan heights in 
northern Israel, consists of several rings ,of stones with large markers 
aligned along the Summer solistic position of the Sun, and other 
significant events. Similarly, a solar temple of ‘Amon-Ra’ (the Sun God) 
in Karnak (Thebes), has a stone avernue of about 500 yards, and the 
structures at the sides are so arranged that most of the time the temple 
was shrouded in darkness, and only once a year, at the Sun's Summer 
solistic position, for a short time, the temple would be flooded with 
light. It also coincided with the river Nile rising and giving the region 
its sorely needed waters. 


13 


Again, Stonehenge, the famous stone circle in Salisbury plain (in 
England) is an ancient astronomical monument, built by beaker people 
sometimes between 1800 and 1400 B.C.; the stone structure helped, to 
locate the shortest and the longest (Solistice) day of the year. 

In the new world also, the Mayans (in central America) has an 
astronomical tradition. When the jungles in Mexico and Guatemala 
were cleared, temples and Pyramids aligned to astronomical phenom- 
enon were discovered; and Dresden Codex was found which was a book 
written in Mayan hands, sometimes during the first millenium after 
Christ, with strange looking glyphs representing numbers and encoding 
details of celestial cycles. In Mayan astronomy ‘Venus played an 
important role, and its chronology starts from the conjunction of the 
Moon, Venus, Mercury, Mars and Jupiter (it occurred on May 25, 482 
AD.). They followed a Venus cycle, a calendar of 260 days. 

Astronomy made scientific strides during 15th to 19th centuries, 
starting with Copernicus (1473-1543 A.D.) with his Copernician model 
of solar system; Kepler (1571-1639 A.D.) with his (Kepler's) laws for 
planetary motion; Newton (1642-1727 A.D.) with his famous laws of 
motion and universal gravitation; Gallileo, (1564-1642 A.D.) the 
inventor of the telescope and the great telescope observer; Huygens 
(1629-1695 A.D.) an able observer who recognised the nature of 
Saturn's rings and discoverer of Titon (a Moon of Saturn); Herschel 
(1738-1822 A.D.) the great discoverer of the planet Uranus and many 
satellites of planets, and many other theoretical and experimental 
astronomers of the 19th and 20th century who with improved modern 
instruments and expensive observatories made numerous observations 
on stars, nebulae, supernova, galaxies, and the expanding universe. 

The modern astronomers were happily making progressive discove- 
ries with their firm belief in absolute Space and Time, and nature's 
determinism. Suddenly their basis was knocked off by 20th century 
discoveries. Albert Einstein (1879-1955 A.D.) propounded his famous 
theories of Special Relativity (1905), and General Relativity (1915), 
which declared that neither Space nor Time are absolute. They are inter- 
related physical entities and relative to events also and have a beginning 
and perhaps an end. Moreover, matter and energy are essentially and 
fundamentally the same entity, controvertible from one to the other by 
the famous law of E = mc’, (where E = energy, m = mass of matter 
c = velocity of light). Further in 1924, astronomer Hubble demonstrated 
the existence of many more galaxies, distances between them (measured 
in lakhs of light years) progressively increasing. Thus the space itself 
is continuously expanding. There also came forth the theory of ‘The Big 


14 


Bang', according to which the Universe was created about 10 to 20 
billion years ago from a space as small as less than a pin head in a time 
as infinitesimal as a micro-micro second. In other words, suddenly 
immense energy was created at time 'zero' out of ‘zero’ space, out of 
‘nothingness’, and since then times is flowing outwards, with space 
expanding outwards, energy once created converting itself into matter 
and matter simultaneously changing into energy to keep the stars hot. 
Some stars explode as Supernova, and later collapse as 'neutron stars’ 
and 'Black Holes’. This dance of Universe goes on in a Space-Time 
continuum (four-dimensional universe) between mater and energy. Will 
it go on expanding forever? Some scientists say no. According to them, 
after the momentum of expansion is lost, the gravitation force exerted 
by the inside matter of the universe, will make it to start contracting 
and it will contract for billions of years, till it will have a big collapse, 
a 'Big Crunch’. The opposite of the ‘Big-Bang’ that generated Space, 
Time, Energy and Matter. So the scientists are getting baffled with their 
own scientific astronomical discoveries. Twentieth century has led 
-astronomy to the era of cosmology once more. Science is once more 
merging with metaphysics and philosophy. 

Will the Big Bang (that took place billions of years ago) which 
created Space, Time, Energy and Matter, and the Big Crunch that may 
take place billions of years later, be a one time affair? Is it one beginning 
and one end only as may be expected from the Genesis as given in the 
Bible? Or is it going to be repetitive, oscillatory, or cyclic affair as 
postulated in thé Upanishadic philosophies and the astronomical 
siddhantas like the Surya Siddhanta and the Puranas like Vishnu Purana} 
Is the void at Big Bang not the 'Sat' and 'Tat' of the Brahman (wel)? 
Is the creation at 'Big Bang’ not the coming forth of the 'Purushas' 
‘Prakriti’ or ‘Maya’ as enunciated in the Upanishads ? Is it not the 
coming into ‘Being’ of the Brahma (#@1) from the ultimate 'Non- 
Being'? Are the four fundamental forces of nature not the four arms 
of the Maha Shakti? Will not the modern scientists (astronomers, 
physicists and cosmologists) have to finally come to the same 
conclusions as our great Rishis of this 'Sanatan’ land of ours? I believe 
that our Cosmological philosophy will be the final answer for science. 


Education for a Career 
and the Tension of Parents 
MN Kedar 


(1 story I heard, may be apocryphal, that a | couple went to a court of 
law for a divorce and on the judge asking them the cause for the divorce 
the reason given was that one of them wanted their son to be doctor 
and the other an engineer. Such difference of opinion was intolerable. 
And how old was the son, the judge asked them. Their marriage itself 
was six months old. 


This story illustrates the tension educated parents face these days 
when they are required to take a decision about the career of their 
children. Remember the changed social landscape. Hereditary profes- 
sions have vanished and are vanishing. Literacy percentage today is fifty 
for males and forty for females compared to ten percent for males and 
half a percent for females at the beginning of the century. India is not 
merely an industrial nation but is among the ten top industrial nations 
of the world. And India even today has the largest number of 
technocrats in the world. How keen competitive and tense career 
seeking opportunities have become is well-known?. 


Education and career-counselling are done best through astrology as 
psychologists with their aptitude tests have nowhere succeeded in 
spotting talent of students with any amount of success. 


Lest it appear to be a piece of boasting, readers may prepare 
astrological data as directed in this paper and proceed step by step as 
shown in the practical examples. This paper is only a preliminary 
approach paper which will be followed up with more. But to the extent 
to which it can be used it should be. 


* Readers should read and re-read this article as the writer, Mr. M.N. Kedar has guided 
hundreds of children with his astrological counselling for right choice of type of 
edncation for careers "very successfully. He is revealing in this paper for the first time 
part of his technique in our collective act of sharing knowledge. 


16 


Data to be prepared 


1. Prepare full horoscope with degrees, Navamsha, and Chatur- 
vimshamsha. 

2. Prepare the dasha-periods in detail for the relevant period of the 
student's career. 

3. Then mark the nakshatras in which planets are posited. 

4. Mark the karakas of Jaimini. 
But remember that Chaturvimshamsha can be made use of only when 

the birth time noted is accurate. 


, 


Tabular Display 


The above information can be displayed in a tabular form thus. 


Planet Rashi Degrees Nakshatra Jaimini Karaka* 
Lagna Cancer 13*32' Pushya 

Sun Scorpio 6°16' Anuradha Gnati Karaka 
Moon Leo 10°44! Magha Matri Karaka 
Ma: Leo 10°46' Magha Bhratra Karaka 
Mercury Scorpio 26°31' Jyeshtha Amatya Karaka 
Jupiter Leo 27°00' U.Phalguni Atma Karaka 
Venus Libra 0°36" Chitra Dara Karaka 
Saturn Capricorn 7712 U. Ashadha Putra Karaka 
Rahu Aquarius 20°08" P. Bhadra 

Ketu Leo 20°08" P. Phalguni 


The same horoscope displayed in tabular form above should be put 
into four divisional charts, Janma, Navamsha, Dashamsha and 
Chaturvimshamsha. 


Analysis 


Why is it that a person trained in one discipline like science ends up 
in the post of an accountant which is entirely different from the formal 
educational training he had received? In all such cases we will have to 
do a complex research in education-linked-careers. But the subject 
matter of this paper is only the type of education a student is likely to 
get astrologically. 

A brief discussion of the above-given horoscope is being done to 
show the method being followed. 


* The planets beginning with highest degree, are Atma Karaka, Amatya Karaka, Bhratra 
Karaka, Matri Karaka, Putra Karaka, Gnati Karaka and Dara Karaka in decending 
order. 


Moon Jupiter 
ars Kety 


Rashi 


Nov. 21, 1932 
22:24 hrs IST 
Delhi 
Male 


sm] ew || 
= Navamsha 


P 
: Ketu 
ete ||| 
recat] || 


Moon 
Mars | Venus 
Saturn 


Moon 
Mars 


Chatur- 
vimshamsha 


9 
Saturn 
Sun Keru Rahu 


18 


(a) The fourth house (house of education) has Venus in his own house 
in the nakshatra of Mars aspected by Saturn: 

(b) There is Budhaditya yoga in the fifth house of Mars aspected by 
Mars. There is exchange of 2nd and Sth lords i.e. Mars and the 
Sun have exchanged their houses. 

The native, a science student, could not go higher and could not make 

a medical career but instead is stuck up in the accounts department. 

Such strange twists in careers are quite common now. 

But instead of discussing this horoscope in detail, the principles 
applicable for finding out the educational pattern are being outlined here 
for the discussion of other horoscopes. 


PATTERN REVEALED BY HOROSCOPE 

A horoscope should be examined to find out: 

(a) The level of education promised in the horoscope. 

(b) Break, if any, in education and its re-continuation. 

(c) Start of period of earning with break in education or otherwise. 
(d) The type of education should be examined in depth. 


(e) The financial position of parents is examined to ascertain whether 
in such institutions where capitation amount or fee of substantial 
amounts is demanded, the parents can afford to pay it. 


Yogas 


(a) Buddhaditya Yoga - It is well-known. The stronger the yoga the 
better it is. 

(b) Shankha Yoga - If lord of fifth and sixth are in kendras from each 
other, with a strong lagna lord, it promises good education. 

(c) Saraswati Yoga - If the three well-known benefics, Jupiter, Venus 
and Mercury occupy Lagna, the second, the fourth, the fifth, the 
seventh, the ninth, the tenth houses singly or jointly it again 
promises good education. ; 


(d) Budh-Yoga- Jupiter in Lagna, the Moon in a kendra, Rahu in 2nd 


from the Moon, the Sun and Mars in 3rd from Rahu. Promises 
knowledge of many sciences and intelligence. 


Planets 


Jupiter- A karaka for education. A strong Jupiter, well-placed, exalted, 
in own house, in Kendra or fifth house, or with the lord of the fifth 
house in the ninth is an excellent combination for very good education. 


19 


Mercury - Mercury in kendra, in own house or exalted is good. In 
the fourth house Mercury is good for intellectual development and 
literary attainments. 


Lagna and Lagna Lord - The strength of lagna and lagna lord is of 


primary importance as ill-health ruins everything. (Note: afflicted 
planets, particularly benefics, are detrimental to pursuit of education). 


Houses 


Having seen Yogas, planets, the third point for our scrutiny should be 
three houses namely, the second, the fourth and the fifth. « 


The Second House 


A student's ability to retain mentally what he is taught and his powers of 
expression should be judged from the second house and the second lord. 


The Fourth House 
The fourth house is not merely for acquisition of learning but for the 
type of such learning. For instance many texts give different qualities 
to different planets; Venus-music, Mercury-education, the Sun and the 
Moon-political science, psychology and metaphysics, the Sun and 
Mercury-proficiency in Mathematics, Venus with the Sun or Mercury- 
poetical instincts; the Sun and Mars-logic. 

A thorough examination of the fourth house and the fourth lord 
reveals the type of education. 


The Fifth House 


The fifth house is the house of creative faculties, Poorva punya, and 
shows the level of education. 

The favourable combinations are: the fifth lord and house between 
benefics; the fifth lord in the ninth house. Mercury powerfully disposed, 
5th lord well posited or associated. 


Navamsha 
Now examine the Navamsha positions thus: 
(a) The Navamsha position of the fifth lord; 


(b) The lord of Navamsha rashi of Mercury should be well placed in 
Kendra or Trikona from the Lagna, and associated with fifth lord. 


(c) The lords of Navamsha rashi, the fifth lord and Jupiter are placed 
in kendra.or trikona in the birth horoscope. 


Tattwa 
It is well known that rashis are Co-related with Agni (fiery) Prithvi 


20 


(earthy) Vayu (airy) and Jala (water) tattwas. To avoid the paper from 
growing lengthy, discussion about it is not being done. It can be seen 
that tattwas and other characteristics of rashis leave their unmistakable 
print on the nature and type of education. 


Ancillary Factors 


The third house for ability to work hard, the ninth house for higher 
education and a good tenth house and tenth lord, together with the 
nakshatras in which the concerned planets are posited are the ancillary 
factors to be taken into account. 


Recapitulation 


Among so many factors considered in this paper, the main are: four 
yogas, karakas, planets, houses, tattwas and nakshatras. 

The case studies being taken up here can be understood easily if the 
scheme as outlined here is followed. 'It is: 


(a) Apply the five factors mentioned before, to: 
The birth horoscope, Navamsha and Chaturvimshamsha, 


(b) Time the required event by working-out the Vimshottari dasha 
upto sub-sub period, 


(c) Transit at that time (during the period of education). 


Before illustrations are taken up it must be stressed that desh a 
(country) £aa/ a (the times in which we live) and paatra (the specific 
background of the consultor) are the important factors that must be kept 
in view prominently. 


ILLUSTRATION ONE 


Now the first point: Yogas for education 


Examine Jupiter, Mercury and Venus and fourth and fifth lords. Out 
of these Mercury in fifth with the Sun forming Budhaditya yoga and 
in exaltation aspected by Jupiter; Venus in kendra from Lagna and 
Jupiter and in the fourth house reveals good deal of promise. Jupiter(R) 
will work from Aries as well, but as:it is, there is an Adhi-yoga from 
the Moon and also from lagna. 


Stamina to work bard. Make a two-fold analysis: Mars in the third house, 
third lord the Moon in 6th and a sequence of good dashas will give 
to the native the stamina to work hard and also success. 


Illustration One 


Birth details : October 7, 1964; 21:30 hrs IST; Delhi. 


Lagna 24°33' Mars 20°10' Venus 
Sun 21°03' Mercury 14°57' Saturn (R) 
Moon 14°33’ Jupiter (R) 1°54' Rahu 


Vimshottari dasha balance : Rahu 7v-4ms-9d 


Ye 
Lagna 
R 


: Karak- 
Rashi amsha 


Oct. 7, 1954 | Mars 
21:30 hrs IST 

Delhi 

Male 


21 


8°50" 
5°31’ 
2°23' 


22 


Examination of the fourth and fifth houses and their lords 


Now come to the crux of the problem. The fourth house has Venus 
aspected by the ninth and the tenth lord Saturn, while the fourth lord 
with Mercury in the fifth house aspected by Jupiter enhances all good 
promises. 

Two planets needing good examination, Mercury and Jupiter are 
favourable. Mercury is best placed. Jupiter (R) in enemy's house being 
retrograde will also act from Mesha giving a Gaja-Kesari yoga from 
Mesha and Adhi-yoga from Vrisha. There is soundness and strength 
in the horoscope. 


From the Moon 


Make a similar examination from the Moon. The five-eleven axis 
between Saturn and Venus is most promising. Just as there is Saturn 
in the tenth from lagna, there is Mars in the tenth from the Moon and, 
though debilitated, it acquires directional strength. 


The over-all assessment 


The dasha sequence is promising, as are the yogas. Good education will 
have to be predicted in this case. 


Type of Education 


In the fourth house Venus in the nakshatra of Ketu aspected by Saturn 
who is in the’nakshatra of Mars emphasises techriical education. The 
fourth lord Sun and the fifth lord Mercury in the nakshatra of the Moon 
representing water, draws the native to chemistry. 


Jaimini Astrology 


Karakamsha! ig Cancer with Mars in it aspected” by Jupiter and Saturn. 
Cancer is again a watery sign. Mars is the fifth and tenth lord from 
Karakamsha-aspected by Saturn who also aspects the tenth house from 
Karakamsha. The fourth house from Karakamsha has the Moon and 
is aspected by Venus, Jupiter and Saturn. Fourth lord Venus in Leo is 
aspected by the Moort..The fifth house is aspected by Mars. Fifth lord 
Mars is aspected by Jupiter and Saturn. 


1. Karakamsha is the sign where the Atma Karaka is posited in the Navamsha. 


2. InJaimini, a movable sign aspects all fixed signs, except the adjacent one; a fixed 
sign aspects all movable signs except the adjacent one and all dual signs aspect each 
other. 


23 


The predominant emphasis is on the technical side. Now see 
Navamsha in two ways: 


(a) G@) How is the fourth lord of birth horoscope (the Sun) placed here? 
It is in a watery sign Cancer, aspected by Jupiter and Mars. 


(ii) Now examine the fourth house and the fourth lord of 
Navamsha independently. Here you find Saturn exchanging 
places with an exalted Mars. 


(b) (i) The fifth lord Mercury is posited in Taurus Navamsha aspected 
by Saturn. 


(ii) The fifth lord of Navamsha, Jupiter, is posited with Mars and 
aspected by Sun and Saturn. 


Must it be emphasised that Navamsha confirms what the birth 
horoscope reveals? 


(c) Again see Chaturvimshamsha in two ways - the disposition of the 
fourth and fifth lord of the birth horoscope here and then the fourth house 
and its lord in Chaturvimshansha as though it was an independent 
chart. Here again the influences of Saturn, Sun and Rahu-Ketu are 
visible. On the fifth house, also the Sun, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu 
excert their influence. 


Conclusion 


The type of education this native will get is science because the fourth 
and fifth houses show influences of Mars, Saturn, the Sun, Rahu/Ketu 
predominantly. 

Note : What is being emphasised throughout is that the fourth house 
reveals the type of eduction and the fifth bouse the educational inclinations. 
If they are in harmony there are few conflicts or no conflicts in educational 
career If they conflict, deeper probe is necessary into the horoscope which can 
be discussed in some other paper. 


‘Final Conclusion 


What has been presented here is a case study ofa prediction given. The 
empHatic role of the Moon took the boy in chemical engineering in the 
Mahadasha of Jupiter (in the nakshatra of the fourth lord the Sun) and 
the antardasha of Venus in the fourth house of the Sun and nakshatra 
of Ketu again technical. 

The boy competed in L.-T. examination and secured a high position. 
Examination of his professional ‘prospects can be done easily by 
examining relevant houses. 


24 


ILLUSTRATION TWO 


Treat this horoscope as one of a promise of technical education which 
could have been ruined but for some other helpful factors. See the 
horoscope. 

Briefly the analysis done.as in the previous case is as follows: Jupiter, 
Mercury, Venus, exchange of second and ninth lord and Ketu in the 
third house etc. show the ability of the boy to work with Rahu dasha 
(in the ninth) coming at an appropriate time. 


Analysis 


The fourth house receives the aspect of Mars but the fourth lord though 
in the house of Saturn is in the nakshatra of Jupiter, in the Navamsha 
of Mercury and in the Chaturvimshamsa of Mercury, in one case 
receiving the aspect of the Sun in the other of Saturn. The weight is 
towards the technical but there are obstructions as will be clear. 

The fifth lord Mars in the nakshatra of Ketu aspects his house 
together with the exalted Moon from Vrisha. 

Aspects of Mercury and Venus on Jupiter add to the weight of non- 
technical education but then Jupiter in the rashi of the Sun and in the 
nakshatra of Ketu is capable of tilting the balance in favour of the 
technical but with extra efforts. Ketu in the third house and three planets 
in ninth house show why and how the extra-efforts will succeed and 
luck will favour him. 

Make a similar examination from the Moon. Jupiter in the fourth 
in the nakshatra of Ketu and the focus of technical planets Rahu/Ketu 
the Sun and Saturn again show technical education, as far as the fifth 
house is concerned. 


Special Feature 


Now notice here the fourth lord is directly connected with twelfth lord 
(far off place) and ninth lord (helpful father); the native completed his 
engineering course from South India and later went to USA for higher 
studies. Did MC and is doing job now. 


Notable 


Some notable points emerge out from the discussion done so far. They 
are: 


(a) Mars, Saturn, Ketu and the Sun if connected with the fourth and 
fifth houses, through aspects, nakshatra etc., incline one towards 
technical education. 


25 


Illmstration Two 


Birth details : April 2, 1968; 14:21 hrs IST; Delhi. 


Lagna 23°43' Mars 10°33' Venus 28°33' 
Sun 19°16' Mercury 28°49" Saturn 21°37' 
Moon 739 Jupiter (R) 3*0L' Rahu 25°11' 


Vimshottari dasha balance : Rahu ly-Om-21d. 


14:21 hrs IST 


26 


(b) .Planets show the specific inclination thus; Mercury (mathematics), 
Venus (sophisticated things and chemicals) and combination of 
both incline towards engineering but the stronger of the two will 
prevail. Here the strength of the planet must be seen. 


(c) Now if it is to be clinched see here Jupiter is aspecting the fourth 
lord from Lagna and is in the fourth house from the Moon and 
is thus influencing the significance of the fourth house. Now Jupiter 
is in the rashi of the Sun and nakshatra of Ketu.-It thus becomes 
doubly technical. 


(d) Further clinching can be done with the help of Karakamsha which 
is Mithuna in this case. From here the fourth and tenth houses have 
Saturn, the Sun, Rahu and Ketu influences only while the tenth 
lord Jupiter in the rashi of the Sun is aspected by Mars. 


This is a case study of actual prediction given to a boy over a period 
of nearly five years, stage by stage and he is now on the verge of making 
a good career with a foreign degree. He had gone through some lean 
patches but his capacity to work hard and the luck factor finally proved 
helpful. 


Solve the Problem 


After giving case-studies of actual predictions given we are giving some 
more horoscopes on which successful predictions were given. But 
instead of analysing them only some useful facts are being given. Apply 
the given principles and analyse the horoscopes yourself. 


Case No. 1° 


This: horoscope with Aries Lagna is of a girl who has gone to Russia 
for technical education. 


Case No. 2 


The second horoscope with Libra Lagna is a student who has done 
MBBS from Delhi. 


Case Nos. 3 to 5 


The next three horoscopes are of students who have gone to South India 
where they got admission in engineering courses after paying capitation 
fees. 


OBSERVATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS 


In Delhi we have the opportunity of seeing the horoscopes of some very 
successful, prosperous and outstanding persons and their children who 


27 


are good in studies and have the resources alsc to go in for higher 
education. Besides, the foreigners who have consulted us have always 
wondered how it is that through Vedic astrology such educational 
pattern can be seen so clearly together with inclinations while the best 
of psychiatrists in the West are still groping in the dark with their 
aptitude tests. An English-knowing Russian girl was asked by one of 
us whether she was an author, poetess, photographer and linguist all 
rolled in one. She was not merely surprised but remarked that if in the 
West they could spot such talents, with so much facility, they would 
become world figures for such a research while Indian astrologers have 
been predicting with such a high percentage of success with minimum 
or no publicity or recognition of such super-fine aptitude tests. 

The future use of astrology, which is the real science of the future, is of 
career-guidance essentially in the growing competitive world, of course not 
without pointing out periods of lean patches and occasional upsets which is 
what life is. 


nN 


8 


Q 


ase No. 1 : Girl went to Russia for technical education. 


Birth details : July 17, 1973; 1:28 hrs. IST; Hyderabad 


Posited in rashi Jaimini 

Planets Longitudes Nakshatra in charts Karaka 
Birth = Navam- Chaturvim- 
sha shamsha 

Sun 0°37'41"—— Punarvasu 4 4 4 DK 
Moon 15°25'37"— Sravana 10 2 4 MK 
Mars 22°41'00" ss Revati 12 10 10 AmK 
Mer.(R)  6°10'29"— Pushya 4 5 8 PK 
Jup.@) = 15°26'58"_— Sravana 10 2 4 BK 
Venus 26*31'00" — Ashlesha 4 11 1 AK 
Saturn 4°39'31" = Mrigashira 3 8 8 GK 
Rahu 14°17'34"— Purvashadha 9 5 4 - 
Ketu 14°17'34")— Ardra 3 11 10 - 
Lagna = 2771126" _—s Krrittika 1 9 2 - 


Case No. 2: Student who has passed M.B.B.S. 


Posited in rashi Jaimini 
Planets Longitudes Nakshatra in charts Karaka 
Birth Navam- Chaturvim- 
sha shamsha 
Sun 12°38' Sravana 10 1 2 DK 
Moon = 26°59" Satbhisha 10 6 1 AmK 
Mars (R) 25°05" Ashlesha 4 11 12 BK 
Mer ®) ' 29°26' U. Ashadha 9 9 4 AK 
Jupiter 20°46" P.Bhadra LI 1 9 PK 
Venus 25°00" Jyestha "8 ul 11 MK 
Saturn —- 19°33" Sravana 10 3 7 GK 
Rahu 6°18" Pushya 4 5 9 : 
Ketu 618 U. Ashadha 10 11 S 


Lagna 3°42! U. Phalguni 6 11 7 - 


29 


Case No. 3: Electrical Engineering 
Birth details: January 18, 1970; 23:54 hrs IST; Delhi. 


Lagna 6°35" Mars 1°05" Venus 2°09' 
Sun 4°32' Mercury (R) 13°17" Saturn 8°49! 
Moon 23°32" Jupiter 10°55" Rahu 19°25" 


Vimshottari dasha balance : Mars 6y-10m-22d 
Dasha at the time of admission ; Rahu-Ketu 


30 


Case No. 4: Computer Engineering 
Birth Details : December 14, 1970; 22:10 hrs IST; Delhi. 


Lagna 1°43' Mars 11°37" Vems 19°50 
Sun 28°48' Mercury 18°57’ Saturn (R) 23*26' 
Moon 20°31’ Jupiter Q°41' Rahu 2°19" 


Vimshottari dasha balance : Jupiter 15y-4m~17d 
Dasha at the time of admission : Saturn-Saturn 


31 


Case No. 5 : Mechanical Engineering 
Birth Details : June 16, 1970; 8:50 hrs IST; Delhi. 


Lagna 15°33’ Mars 15°41' Venus 5°51' 
Sun 1°08' Mercury 10°24' Saturn 24°04 
Moon 17°08" Jupiter (R) 2°42! Rahu 12°11' 


Vimshottari dasha balance : Rahu 3y-10m-13d 


Dasha at the time of admission : Jupiter-Rahu 


7 
Lagna 
Venus 


Jupiter 
Moon 
om sess] | 


Venus 


ae 


V7 
Lagna | Jupiter 
Saturn | Sun 


Chatur- 


x canes | 
| rs er an 


xy 


Moon 


LON ZS. 
Dw 


Sa 


SG 


Pain 
SN 


VAN Mae 


Service or Self-employment? 
Test the Thumb-Rules 


S N Kapoor 


raccisioh was taken by us that Jyotish Visharad students should 
produce a research collectively under Kusum Sharma, herself a Jyotish 
Visharad from our first batch, and now a teacher. It was not to be a 
paper but series of papers discussing different aspects of the subject 
chosen, which was wide and unusual, ‘Professional Inclinations'. The 
question was posed by Mr. K.N. Rao. How is it that a person with a 
training and an academic background of humanities lands in semi- 
technical service like the Indian Audit and Accounts Service or even 
a service like the Police Service for which he may not be suited 
temperamentally? 

_Jn the seminar I was to be the only teacher to share the stage and 
that too after the students had presented their papers and Kusum 
Sharma had moderated it. 

I posed a question before the audience. Should not professional 
inclination also meah "inclination towards employment under someone, in 
some body, private or public or government service on the one hand and self- 
employment on the other? 

The audience showed warm response to my question and I offered 
them a tentative thumb-rule, I/5 or more planets are in six houses from 
7th to 12th or from 10th to 3rd, the native is likely to be self-employed.' At 
that stage I gave them only one 'modification' of the thumb rule: !The 
thumb rule ‘may not make one to be self employed if functionally malefic 
Saturnine influence is found on the Moon, on the 10th lord, the 10th house, 
Lagna or the Lagna lord.'The above was based on a study of 20 charts 
— 10 of self-employed and 10 of service class persons, given in 
Annexure-A and B as any study, to avoid any bias, must take into 
consideration two contrasting situations. This rule was found effective 
in 9 out of 10 self-employed persons and conversely on 8 out of 10 
service class persons indicating 80% applicability. 


At this stage I would just request everyone to appreciate the 


33 


application of the above rule first, without applying further modifica- 
tions. About other modifications, we will discuss later. 


Illustrations — Self Employed 


Given here are some illustrations to enable one to appreciate the efficacy 
of the rule. In Chart 1, you will find that there are seven planets from 
7th to 12th house namely Venus, Rahu, Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Moon, 
and Mars. The native is a Supreme Court Advocate, never joined any 
service except that he worked for few days as a junior in the chamber 
of another Senior advocate. Thus, the first part of the rule applies in 
this case very well. Vargottama Saturn, placed in its own sign is 5th lord. 
Therefore it aspect on the Moon is not malefic. 

In Chart 5, you will find that there are six planets from 10th house 
to 3rd house namely Venus, Mars, Sun, Mercury, Moon and Ketu. Here 
Saturn is 9th lord in its own sign. The native is a well established 
businessman. 


Need for further modifications 


But the above rule did not apply to Chart 9, a jeweller. In this case there 
are only two planets Rahu and Moon from 7th to 12th house and there 


Mars 
eae 26, on 
15:23 hrs IST 
Lat. 26:51N 
Long. 80:56E 


Planets Rashi Tattwa Nakshatra Lord 
Lagna Virgo Prithvi U. Phalguni-2 Sun 
Sun Aries : Agni Ashwini-4 Ketu 
Moon Cancer Jala Ashlesha-2 Mercury 
Mars Cancer Jala Pushya-4 Saturn 
Mercury Q) Aries Agni Bharani-2 Venus 
Jupiter Gemini Vayu Punarvasu-1 Jupiter 
Venus Pisces Jala U. Bhadrapada-2 Saturn 
Saturn Capricorn Prithvi U. Shadha-2 Sun 
Rahu Pisces Jala Revati-2 Mercury 


Ketu Virgo Prithvi Hasta-4 Moon 


ee 


agna 
Chart 5 
May 20, 1934 3 
8:30 hrs IST 
Lat. 34:6N 
Long. 74:48E 
Jupiter 
(R) ons eo 

Planets Rashi Tattwa Nakshatra Lord 
Lagna Gemini Vayu Ardra-4 Rahu 
Sun Taurus Prithvi Krittika-3 Sun 
Moon Cancer Jala Ashlesha-1 Moon 
Mars Aries Agni Krittika-1 Sun 
Mercury Taurus Prithvi Rohini-2 Moon 
Jupiter (R) Virgo Prithvi Hasta-4 Moon 
Venus Pisces Jala Revati-2 Mercury 
Saturn Aquarius Vayu Dhanishtha-4 Mars 
Rahu Capricorn Prithvi Shravana-4 Moon 
Ketu Cancer Jala - Ashlesha-2 Mercury 


March 1, 1928 
23:39 hrs IST 


Lat. 26:50N 
Long. 80:54E 


Nakshatra Lord 
Lagna Scorpio Jala Vishakha-4 Jupiter 
Sun Aquarius Vayu' Satbhisha-4 Rahu 
Moon Gemini Vayu Punarvasu-1 Jupiter 
Mars Capricorn Prithvi Uttarashada-4 Sun 
Mercury (R) Aquarius Vayu Dhanishtha-4 Mars 
Jupiter Pisces Jala U. Bhadrapada-4 — Saturn 
Venus Capricorn Prithvi Sravana-3 Moon 
Saturn Scorpio Jala Jyeshtha-3 Mercury 
Rahu Taurus Prithvi Rohini-4 Moon 


Ketu Scorpio Jala Jyeshtha-2 Mercury 


35 


were only four planets Ketu, Saturn, Venus and Mars from 10th to 3rd 
house. Here Saturn is in Jyeshtha nakshatra, in exchange with exalted Mars 
and aspected by Jupiter. Thus it has lost all its maleficence. See five planets 
are in nakshatra of Parmatmansha planets. 


Illustrations — Service Class 


Besides this very rule is found applicable in the charts of three persons 
who belonged to service class. In the case of Chart I1, belonging to 
Indian Economic Service Lady Officer, there are in all seven planets 
from 10th to 3rd namely Jupiter, Rahu, Mars, Saturn, Venus, Sun and 
Mercury. But Saturn is responsible for service as Saturn is Akaraka, 
Maraka and is debilitated in Navamsha. It is not aspected by any natural 
benefic in this case. Such a Saturn is aspecting the 10th house and 10th 
lord both. 

Similarly in Chart 12 belonging to IAS Officer, there are six planets 
from 10th to 3rd house namely Venus, Jupiter, Mercury, Sun, Rahu and 
Saturn. But Saturn is responsible for service as Saturn is aspecting the 
Moon in shafru rashi, unaspected by any natural benefic. 

Still further in the case of Chart 13, belonging to Retired High Court 
Judge, there were seven planets from [0th to 3rd house namely Rahu, 


7 
a Lagna 2 Jupiter 
U 


Mars Saturn 
9 
3:45 hrs 
Lat. 30:56N 
Long. 75:52E 


Planets Rashi Tattwa Nakshatra Lord 
Lagna Sagittarius Agni Moola-4 Ketu 
Sun Aquarius . Vayu Satbhisha-1 Rahu 
Moon Pisces Jala U. Bhadrapada-4 — Saturn 
Mars Sagittarius Agni Purvashadha-2 Venus 
Mercury Aquarius Vayu Dhanishtha-3 Mars 
Jupiter (R) Libra Vayu Swati-1 Rahu 
Venus Capricorn Prithvi Uttarashada-4 Sun 
Saturn Sagittarius Agni Moola-1 Ketu 
Rahu Libra Vayu Swati-1 Rahu 


Ketu Aries Agni Ashwini-3 Ketu 


. Lagna 
Sun Mercury 
Oct. 13, 1956 6 
6:00 hrs 
Lat. 28:00N | Venus 
i Tattwa Nakshatra Lord 
Prithvi Hasta-4 Moon 
Prithvi Chitra-1 Mars 
Moon Capricorn Prithvi Uttarashadha-4 Sun 
Mars Aquarius Vayu Satbhisha-4 Rahu 
Mercury Virgo Prithvi U. Phalguni-4 Sun 
Jupiter Leo Agni U. Phalguni-1 Sun 
Venus Leo Agni P. Phalguni-1 Venus 
Saturn Scorpio Jala Anuradha-2 Saturn 
Rahu Scorpio Jala Anuradha-1 Saturn 
Ketu Taurus Prithvi Krittika-3 Sun 


Nov. 10, 1922 
11:04 hrs 
Lat. 28:57N 
Long. 76:38E 


Sua 
Jopiter | Satum 


Planets Rashi Tattwa Nakshatra Lord 
Lagna Sagittarius Agni Poorvashadha-3 Venus 
Sun Libra Vayu Vishakha-2 Jupiter 
Moon Gemini Vayu Punarvasu-3 Jupiter 
Mars Capricorn Prithvi Shravana-2 Moon 
Mercury Libra Vayu Swati-1 Rahu 
Jupiter Libra Vayu Swati-2 Rahu 
Venus (R) Scorpio Jala Anuradha-4 Saturn 
Saturn Virgo Prithvi Hasta-4 Moon 
Rahu Virgo Prithvi U. Phalguni-3 Sun 


Ketu Pisces Jala U. Bhadrapada-1 Jupiter 


37 


Saturn, Mercury, Jupiter, Sun, Venus and Mars. Here Saturn aspects 
the Moon. Saturn is a Maraka and is not aspected by any benefic. It 
is placed in 10th house and spoils 10th from Lagna as well as the Moon 
by its tenth aspect. Hence service. 

Thus the rule is found working very well in 9 cases out of 10 cases 
of self-employed, indicating 90 per cent result. In the case of three 
service class, the first part of the rule did not apply at all, second part 
of the rule did apply only in three cases and that too belonged to a High 
Court Judge, 1.A.S., and an 1.E.S. Officer. It would mean that the rule 
works in 70 per cent cases of service class persons. Seeing the probability 
the percentage of the result of the rule making one to be Self-Employed 
or in Service, must be rated very high. But we were not satisfied. We 
wanted still more precision and that required certain other modifications 
in the rule. 

It may be mentioned that the rule which is being given here after 
modifications, has been found very effective in over 97% cases in the 
lecture at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan by over 100 persons belonging to the 
Service and Self-employed classes. Five persons claimed that the 
modified rule did hot apply. Out of these 5, two were convinced that 
tule did apply, leaving 3 cases to be reconsidered. In two cases students 
had not noted that Saturn was retrograde and if it was assumed that 
it would give effect of previous rashi or house, then the rule did apply. 
Thus only one case was left. We would revert back to that case at 
appropriate stage. Thus blind test was applied at random. 


Factors to be considered 


For proper appreciation of the modified rule, one has to undertake 
following stepwise exercise: 


(a) Number of planets (i) from 7th to 12th house and (ii) from 10th 
to 3rd house (iii) from 4th to 6th house; 


(b) Position of Saturn — whether Gocharasth and/or Karaka or 
Agocharasth and/or Akaraka; 


(c) Position of Parmatmansha planets in 3 zones as in (a) above; 


(d) Planetary Avastha - exaltation, debilitation etc. of Lagna lord and 
10th lord; 


(e) Rashi and Nakshatra position of all the planets to know tattwas 
governing the planets. 


(f) Dasha, antardasha and pratyantar dasha at the relevant time. 


Though in random test, results are very high even in the first step, yet 
for the purpose of precise prediction, each step is important. 


38 


Puma Parmatmansha Planets : What they are? And Why? 


The Sun, the Moon, Mars and Rahu are Purna Parmatmansha while 
Buddhadi planets (Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn and Ketu) are 
Jeevams Samanvit Parmatmansha planets. One must study Chapter 2 
of Brihat Parashar Hora Shastra to appreciate the importance attached 
to the distinction and difference between two classes of planets, causing 
two kind of Avatars — Poorna Parmatmansha Avatars manifesting with 
the causation of the Sun, the Moon, Mars and Rahu and other leevams 
Samanvit Avatars' manifesting with the causation of other planets. 
Rama Avatar, Krishna Avatar, Narasimha Avatar and Varah Avatar are 
manifestations of energies primarily emanating from the Sun, the 
Moon, Mars and Rahu respectively and they are said to be Poorna 
Parmatmansha Avatars. Maharishi Parashar wanted to lay emphasis on 
this aspect, it could not be irrelevant. Only we failed to notice it — the 
root cause of all kinds of aishwarya. If they are stronger, well placed 
and well connected as compared to others, they would conferprabhuta 
while others in increasing order lead to dependence on and 
subordination to others. 

One would appreciate that planets in visible half give better result 
and visible half mean 6 houses from 7th to 12th. Similarly planets nearer 
to Lagna affect it more favourably, for it appears to be the logic behind 
‘Tatkalik Maitri’. The Sun and Mars became digbali in 10th house. 
Rahu in 11th is also said to be well placed. The Moon in 10th has also 
been praised in classical works. 

Now see the position of these Parmatmansha planets in the first five 
charts of self-employed in houses from 7th to 12th. 


House where Parmatmansha 
Planets posited 


Chart Sun Moon = Mars Rahu No. of other Total planets 
No. planets ° from 7th to 12th 


1 8 rm 1 7 3 7 
2 9 7 8 1 3 7 
3 10 9 9 8 2 6 
4 9 iv 12 (3) 4 7 
5 12 (2) 1i 8 3 6 


Thus in first 5 charts out of 20 (4 planets x 5 charts) Parmatmansha 
factors, 18 have been found in between 7th to 12th houses i. 90%. 
But in rest of the cases, this worked only to the extent of 45%. See 
it from another angle. In Chart 6, the Sun is in its own nakshatra, 
Krittika; the Moon in Hasta and Rahu and Mars in Poorvashadha. 


39 


Venus‘is in turn in Mrigshira. In this case, except one, all the planets 
arc connected with nakshatras of Parmatmansha planets — six directly 
and two by nakshatrik exchange and being dispositor. 

In Chart 7, four planets are in the nakshatras of Parmatmansha 
planets and dispositors of Rahu and Mars are also in these stars. In 
Chart 8, five planets are in these nakshatras including Rahu's dispositor. 
In Chart 9, five planets are there and dispositor of two others Saturn 
and Ketu is in the star of Mars. In Chart 10 again five planets are in 
these stars and dispositor of other three, Jupiter is in the star of Mars. 
So there is certainly predominant effect of these Parmatmansha planets 
alongwith the effect of the basic rule in its both facets. 

However, it may be noted here that in ten charts of service class, out 
of forty Parmatmansha factors, fifteen were in 4th, 5th and 6th houses; 
six in 7th, 8th and 9th houses; six in 10th, 11th, and 12th; and thirteen 
in Ist, 2nd and 3rd houses. Thus in bright and visible half, there were 
only 12 out of 40 — at against 25 such factors in the case of self- 
employed. 

These two rules taken together were found applicable in three cases 
of service class — two Class-I Officers and one High Court Judge. Then 
how to distinguish them from the self-employed, is the question. This 
led to second modification relating to Saturn, being karaka of service 
and servant both. 


Day & Night Births vs. Self-employment & Service 


This study is leading to an interesting inference that propensity of self 
employment is high in case of day birth as compared to night births. 
This inference arises from the fact that in the group of self-employed 
horoscopes, the Sun is present in the brighter half in six out of tencases, 
whereas in the group of service class horoscopes, the Sun is present in 
the brighter half in three out of 10 cases. So the ration is 3:2 for self- 
employment and 3:7 for service. 

Second inference in this respect is that birth between sunset and 
midnight are prone to give service in view of presence of the Sun in 
6th, Sth and 4th in four cases of service class as compared to two in 
cases of self employed. Here the ratio of self-employment appears to 
be 1 : 4 and for service 2 : 3. 

This needed further modifications for better precision. 


Saturn for Service and/or Servants 


This problem led to a further study and a handy solution. Though one 
can not be sure that it would give 100% result, yet certainly it would 


40 


not be below 90%. Aspect or conjunction of a malefic Saturn on the 
Moon, the Sun, 10th lord and the 10th house is prone to give service, 
subject to other conditions. 

In all the ten cases of service class this rule applied. It also explains 
why in exceptional case (Chart 21) and cases of Rajiv Gandhi (Chart 22) 
and Dr. Nagendra Singh (Chart 23), natives had to join service. In 
Rajiv's case, Saturn was aspecting the Sun, the Moon and 10th lord 
Venus. In the case of Dr. Singh, Saturn is aspecting the Moon. 

However, Yoga Karaka and strong Saturn's influence is prone to give | 
self-employment either from the very beginning or later after doing 
service and may make a native even self-employed. But even Saturn in 
nakshatra of Parmatmansha planets has been found to give at least good 
service. Take the case of Rajiv Gandhi, Saturn was in Aridra. In he case 
of Dr. Nagendra Singh, it is Rohini. In the case of Dr. B.V. Raman 
(Chart 24), Saturn in Rohini made him self-employed. 

To decide whether a planet is likely to be beneficial or not, one must 
apply at least basic rule of Sarvarth Chintamani that Gocharastha 
planets give good result while Agocharastha bad. Planets in exaltation, 
in mooltrikona and which are neither combust nor placed in 6th, 8th 
or 12th house are Gocharastha. So only Gocharastha Saturn (and not 


Exceptional 


Dec. 23, 1948 
22:53 hrs 
Delhi 


Planets Rashi Tattwa Nakshatra Lord 
Lagna Leo Agni Purvaphalguni-2 Venus 
Sun Sagittarius i. Moola-3 Ketu 
Moon Virgo Prithvi Hasta-2 Moon 
Mars Sagittarius Agni Uttarashadha-1 Sun 
Mercury Sagittarius Agni Purvashadha-1 Venus 
Jupiter Sagittarius Agni Purvashadha-1 Venus 
Venus Scorpio Jala Anuradha-3 Saturn 
Saturn Leo Agni Magha-4 Ketu 
Rahu Aries Agni Ashwini-4 Ketu 


Ketu Libra Vayu Swati-2 Rahu 


41 


debilitated or combust or placed in 6th, 8th and 12th house) can give 
good result from the angle of career. 


Tattwas 
Agni + Vayu for Self-Employment; Prithvi + Jala for Service 


We must be slightly more specific. In cases of self-employed, out of 10 
cases, the Sun was found in 3 cases in agni tattwa rashis (1-5-9); while 
not in a single case out of 10 service class charts the Sun was found 
in the agni tattwa rashis. 


Lagna 
Moon Jupiter 


S 


42 


In prithvi tattwa rashis the Sun was found in 5 cases in service class 
while only 2 cases in the charts of self-employed. 

In vayu tattwa rashis the Sun was found in 3 cases of self-employed 
and in 4 cases of service class. 

The Sun was found only in 1 case injala tattwa rashi in service charts, 
while in 2 cases in Scorpio in self-employed charts. 

Here it would be relevant to note how far these tattwas changed the 
complexion of horoscopic tendency. The exceptional chart (Chart 21) 
which was referred to earlier is analysed now. 

Here it would be relevant to note that thumb-rule did not apply at 
all as the native is doing business these days. In this case as many as 
five planets are between 4th to 6th house but after doing service between 
June 1977 and July 1981, the native started his own business in Jupiter- 
Jupiter. The reason was none else but pre-dominance of agni and vayu 
tattwa and Poorna Parmatmansha planetary effect. In this case there 
are as many as six planets the Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn and 
Rahu, in agni tattwa rashis and Ketu in vayu tattwa Rashi. Here it may 
be mentioned that the Sun, Mars, Rahu — the three Purna 
Parmatmansha planets are in agni tattwa rashi and dasha lord Jupiter 
is influenced by two Parmatmansha planets, the Sun and Mars and 
causing unusually strong Dhana yoga. 

Other pronounced differences in this respect may be seen in the 
following chart: 


Placement of Parmatmansha Planets: in different Tattwa Rashis (Chart 1 to 20) 


Rashis Tattwa 
Parmatmansha «31 2 = 3 «4«5 6 «7 8 9 10 11 12 Agni Prithvi Vay Jala 
Planets A P V LAP v PA PV J 
Sun 
SéfEmp 2 2 2 = Lo = 2 2 «= Ties: 3 2 <3: 2. 
Service Ee ey ee ee ee ee ee - 5 1 
Moon 
Self Emp. - - BD Po ce Sa ee Ee 1 6 2 
Service 1 - 11 - - 1 1 -«i1~- 4 1 2 6 
Man 
Self Emp. 1 1 - 1 - 1st 1 1 1 -- 2 2 3 
Service 2. dl Ase De ee hh 1D a a 4 3: 1 2 
Rahn . 
Self.Emp;,-:s* De .2) Phe wey OP 3 36, 1 3 
Service oS se oD WD 4 1 ee Ss 2 2 4 2 
Total 
Self Emp. 3 4 2 5 3 3 5 3 3 2 4 3 9 9 11 11 
Service 3.92 3 2 2 4 63 2 5 2 6 7A AY, It 


4 


eo 


Tattwas and Totality of Horoscopic Tendencies 


Rashis 
Agni Prithvi Vayu Jala 
Self Employed 21 25 32 22 
* Service 20 30 24 26 


This table includes Lagna positions also. This leads one to infer that 
while in case of self-employed, there must be about three planets in vayu 
tattwa rashis. In the case of service class there must be three planets in 
prithvi tattwa rashis. 


Puma Parmatmansha Planets and Nakshatra 


Following chart would reveal the dominant stellar effects of the planets 
in two sets of classes: 


Ket Ven Sun Mon Mar Rah Jup = Sat Mer 


Sun 
Self-emp. 2 - 1 - 1 2 1 1 
Service - - 1 1 4 2 1 - 1 
Moon 
Self-emp. 1 - - - - 3 3 - 2 
Service - 2: - - 1 - 1 2 4 
Mars 
Self-emp. - 1 1 : 1 - 2 2 
Service 1 2 1 3 - 1 r 1 1 
Rahu 
Self-emp. 1 1 1 3 : - 1 1 2 
Service - es 1 1 1 1 2 2 . 
Total 
Self Emp 4 2 6 6 0 5 6 4 7 
Service 1 6 3 5 6 4 4 5 7 
Total of all planets in each nakshatra including Lagna 
Self-emp. 9 9 12 13 10 11 16 8 12 
Service 6 9 15 11 13 12 10 12 12 


Inferences and Conclusions : Modified Rule 


In order to judge the probability and propensity to cause  self- 
employment or service, following factors are required to be closely 
watched and scrutinised: 


44 


Factors indicating Self-employment 


(a) 
(b) 


©) 


@) 


©) 


9 


Five or more planets in six houses with from (i) 7th to 12th house 
or (ii) 10th to 3rd house tend to cause self-employment. 


If condition (a) is fulfilled, then probability of self-employment 
increases if Saturn is Gocharastha and karaka and is either conjoined 
with or aspects the Moon, the 10th house or the 10th lord. 


If condition (a) and (b) both are fulfilled, and at least three 
Parmatmansha planets (say — the Sun, the Moon, Mars or Rahu) 
are in six concerned houses, the chances of one's being self- 
employed is over 90%. 


If conditions (a), (b) and (c) are all fulfilled, and lagna lord/10th 
lord is exalted and aspected by benefics, self-employment may be 
more or less certain outcome. 


Jf above conditions are satisfied and if five or more planets are in 


Parmatmansha nakshatras, the native may be self-employed, if 
majority of the planets are in agmi and vayu tattwa rashi, self- 
employment would be near certainty. 

Yoga karaka dashas from the age of 18 to 50 in above conditions 
give self-employment. 


Factors indicating Service 


(a) 
(b) 


©) 


(d) 


(e) 


@) 


Probability of being in service is about 66% in case of birth between 
the sunset and midnight. 

If condition (a) is fulfilled and Agocharastha/Akaraka Saturn 
aspects the Moon, the Oth house, the 10th lord, the probability 
of being in service increases. 

If condition, (a) and (b) above are fulfilled, and majority of 
Parmatmansha planets are in houses 4th to 6th, chances of the 
native being in some service increases. 

If conditions (a), (b) and (C) are all fulfilled, and Lagna lord or 10th 
lord is debilitated and/or is involved in graha yuddha and/or, is in 
mrityubhaga, chances of service are still greater. 

If this condition is not obtained and not more than three planets 
are in Parmatmansha nakshatra and planets are in prithvi or jala 
tattwa rashi, service may be more or less certain outcome. 


Very weak yoga karaka dasha or dashas of 3rd, 6th or 11th from 
the age of 18 to 50 in above condition give service. 


45 


With fulfilment of every additional condition 'given above, it would 
add to additional propensity leading to almost certain conclusion about 
self-employment or service. 


Summing Up 


In the researches we have been doing in Delhi, particularly Chapter 
One, we have told our students that the minimum accuracy of results 
in terms of percentages should be sixty six, preferably eighty percent and 
we would regard any research with more than eighty percent success- 
rate as sound and useful tool for further research and prediction. 

In this research the success rate is above ninety percent. 

In any normal analysis of a horoscope we would take Lagna, Lagna 
lord, the tenth house and the tenth lord; nakshatras and dashas, 
particularly yogakaraka one — a three fold analysis. 

Add to these Saturn's-rule, which in modern terms should be called 
positive or negative (Gocharastha or agocharastha is the classical term). 

Now three entirely new elements have been introduced: the tattwa 
of the rashi concerned; distribution of planets between the seventh house 
and twelfth house or between the tenth house and the third house : and 
finally the Parmatmansha planets and their nakshatras. 

These seven rules have been given as modified rules. Our idea of an 
astrological research is like a musical composition, classical in form with 
intermingling of ragas. We must intermingle lesser used concepts of 
astrology, like Parmatmansha planets and their nakshatras, elements of 
Nabhas yogas, influence of tattwas and expand our understanding of 
lesser used concepts through actual application. 

Unless we do research in such a way, taking the necessary risk, we 
cannot produce composite researches. Any research, as has been said 
has to be like a new musical composition. If it helps the learned readers 
in deciding the question of self-employment or service, I would feel 
rewarded for the composition. 


Birth Particulars 
& Profession 


Apr. 26, 1932 
3:23 p.m. 
26N 51 
80 E 56 
S.C. Advocate 


Nov. 7, 1936 
2:10 p.m. 
WN 

80 FE 2 

S.C. Advocate 


Nov. 28 1940 
136 p.m. 
29N 48 

16 E 26 
Advocate 
Aug. 19, 1969 
3.22 pan. 
18N 58 

72 E 50 
Business 

May 20, 1934 
8:30 a.m. 
NG 

74 E 48 
Business 


Annexure A : 10 Charts of Self-employed 


Nakshatra Positions 


“OP 


Birth Particulars 
& Profession 
May 14, 1954 
1:45 p.m. 
&N 55 

NE S4 6 
S.C. Advocate 

May 29, 1943. 
3:28 p.m. 
23.N 10 

75 E 32 
Doctor 

Dec. 4, 1943 
4:45 a.m. 
28N 39 

7 E 13 
Advocate 


Rashi Positions 


Nakshera Position 


March 1, 1928 
11.40 

28. N 50 

80 E 54 
Jeweller 

Nav 8, 1941. 
5:56 p.m. 
27N 53 

79 E 5S 
Jeweller 


Annexure B : 10 Charts of Service Class 


Birth Particulars 
& Professions 
3:45 am. 
Feb 22, 1958 
30N56 
TSES2 
LES. 


6:00 a.m. 
Oct 13, 1956 
28N0 


TTE10 ] 2 
1AS & MBBS 
11:04 a.m. 


Nov. 10, 1922 
28N57 


76E38 1 3 
Retd.H.C Judge 


9:00 p.m. 
Feb. 10, 1947 
28N46 


76E18 1 4 
Judge 
1:58 pm. 


Jone 20, 1958 
30N44 


we 15 


11 


Nakshatra Position 


Birth Particulars Venus } Sun Mars | Rahn | Jup. Merc 
& Professions 

11:50 p.m. Jup Ven 
Mar. 31, 1957 Ket 

28N39 

TIE3 

Comp.Science 

8:40 p.m. Sun 

Jun. 27, 1962 Jup 

28N39 

77E13 


Doctor 
8:09 am. 
Jan. 23, 1942 
28N39 


TEL 1 Q 
Principal 


0:02 am. 
Sept. 30, 1938 


&F 


Professions and 
Planetary Influences 


R C Sharma 


KK aeons or the tenth house is directly related to one’s profession 
as has been stated in all classical texts. Fifth and Sixth houses, too have 
come into prominence through astrological researches. Focus of 
attention in this paper, however, is on tenth house only. Tenth house, 
in these days of technological developments, has to have much wider 
meaning when hereditary occupations have mostly vanished and youths 
even from villages and having acres of cultivating land have started 
drifting to adjoining townships in search of one or other kind of jobs. 
Again in these days of high-tech era, in which we live, it is extremely 
difficult-if not impossible for any astrologer to clearly distinguish 
between a non-technical and technical job satisfactorily. For-instance, 
an engineer at one time or other may be asked to shoulder general 
management or purely administrative or marketing responsibilities 
where his/her technical skills, perhaps could not be fully exploited. Not 
only that cases are not uncommon where MBBS doctors and engineers 
have taken up transpertation/general administration/politics/journal- 
ism etc. as their career. This stark reality can only be explained by 
assigning a greater meaning in interpretation of tenth house. In fact, 
tenth house does provide indications to show differences in nature of 
postings and the duties one is required to discharge. In this unfoldment 
of different phases of some one's career, it is the dasha/antardasha which 
reveal the story, the changes, the ups and downs. 

In this paper, an attempt has been made to look at a horoscope 
without reference to the dasha/antardasha and examine what type of 
work, nature of postings can be revealed at a glance. Again the paper 
deals with, at a macro level, only one aspect of tenth house to the extent 
whether a native born under certain planetary influences, will earn his/ 
her livelihood through technical profession. Approach in determining 
this distinction has been to evaluate total influences of technical and 
non-technical planets on 10th house/10th lord from Karakamsha, 


51 


Lagna and the Moon as also the effect of the celestial constellation rising 

at the Bhava-Madhya of Dasham Bhava. Factors taken into account 

are enumerated below: 

(i) Technical and non-technical influences (by virtue of position, 
aspects and conjunction) on Lagna and the tenth house with 
reference to Karkamsha, Janma Lagna and Chandra Lagna. 


(ii) Influence of constellation of the tenth lord and the tenth house. 


Jaimini’s Karakamsha is the navamsha rashi occupied by Atmakaraka 
planet in the birth horoscope and not the entire navamsha with 
Karakamsha marked in it. This definition leads substance to the 
meaning in Jaimini Sutras to difference that must arise if different 
planets occupy Karakamsha. 

Points we are examining are: 


(i) The tenth house from Karakamsha whether it is the rashi of a 
benefic and has more benefic influences. (Benefics for the purpose 
of this study being Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus and 
malefics being Saturn, Mars, Rahu and Ketu). 


(ii) Similar examination of tenth house from Lagna (Ascendant) and 
Moon Lagna. 


We have taken twenty horoscopes of purely technical professions like 
that of engineers and persons in non-technical and semi-technical 
professions. The first Category 'A' is.that of purely technical ones and 
the second category 'B' is of mixed professions or of those who are doing 
business other than of technical nature. Analysis of these horoscopes 
reveal the following: 


(i) In cases of natives employed on technical posts, effect of technical 
planets is found to be dominating. 


(ii) In cases of engineers, influences of 'Rahu' is clearly noted. 


(iii) In cases of natives employed on purely non-technical posts and who 
have not drifted from the nature of their jobs, effect of non- 
technical planets is predominant. 


(iv) In cases of natives who did drift from their non-technical jobs to 
the field of technicalities, again technical planets have been found 
to be casting their dominating influence. 


We have also tried to model the pattern into a mathematical model 
by assigning '+1’ unit to the influence of non-technical planets (Sun, 
Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus) and '-1' unit to the influence of 
technical planets (Saturn, Mars, Rahu and Ketu). Resulting analysis fits 


52 


responsibly well into our hypothesis brought out in above para. Results 
emerging out of the four fold analysis are summarised below. 
Description of jobs of each native is also marked against the chart of 
the native. 


Chart Count __ Discription of job 
No. _ of total 

fourfold 

influence 


1-2 Signal and Telecom Engineer on Indian Railways. 

2. «15 Production Engineer 

3. 3 Electrical Engineer in MPEB 

4 +2 Electrical Engineer on Indian Railways, presently doing computer 
programming job. 

5. o+4 Mechnical Engineer by qualification and in material management 
on Indian Railways, presently doing computer programming job. 

6 6-3 Signal and Telecom Engineer on Indian Railways. 

7, 2 Electrical Engineer qualification doing business in Electrical 

Engineering items. 

8-5 Signal and Telecom Engineer on Indian Railways, presently doing 
computer programming job. 

9. -10 Civil Engineer by qualification, done MBA and doing engineering 


job abroad. 
10, -2 Electrical Engineer, presently doing engineering job abroad. 
1. 60 Running Restaurant. 


12. + Accounts and Audit. 

13. «5 Science graduate, done Army (Signals) job and now in traffic 
transportation on Indian Railways, done 7 years career in 
computing field. 

14, 3 In Traffic Transportation on Indian Railways, presently doing 
computer programming job. 

6. -t Maths teacher. 

16. +10 — Done Post-graduate Diploma in French, a classical ‘dancer, doing 

language job. 

Steno-typist. 

Receptionist cum telephone operator. 

+7 In traffic transportation on Indian Railways. 

20, +8 Steno-typist. 

Salient details of charts scrutinised for this study are given in 

Annexure IA and IB. Annexure IA pertains to Technical Category ‘A’ 

and Annexure IB to non-technical and mixed categories ‘B’. Analysis 


53 


in tabular form of the twenty horoscope with reference to Karakamsha, 
Janama Lagna and Chandra Lagna is given in Annexure IT, III and IV. 
Annexure V is the summary analysis done based on modelling approach. 

The study conducted in no way is 2 complete one as it excludes other 
prominent factors like connéction of 6th and 8th with 10th house, 
disposition of 5th house of education vis-a-vis professional direction 
taken by the native and prevailing dasha and antardasha at the time of 
joining a career. The aim in doing this pointed analysis of 10th house 
was only to get, at a glance, the nature of profession one is likely to 
take and if that is revealed, the job is done. 


54 
Annexure-1A : Category ‘A’ — Technical 


Mercury Moon 
Ketu 
Lagna 8 


Dec. 12, 1946 
8:03 a.m. IST 
Vijaywada 
Male 


Jupiter 
Venus 
(AK) 


Rahu 
Venus 


Navamsha 


Ketu 
Ketu Saturn (R) 10 
Saturn 


(R) 


12 


- ae 
— Keru Mars Lagna 
*_| Saturn (fi Ketu Mars 
Saturn (R) 
Venus H 
Navamsha | 6 12. Jupiter 


Mercury , \ 
«R) : 


Nov. 21, 1954 
6:00 p.m. 
Aligarh 


Saturn 
Venus (R 
Mercury 
7, 


EXE 


Moon Venus (R) . 


BOS 


Bulandshahar 
Male 


Sun Venus 
Mercury (R) 


E Sarurn Ketu 


Chart 7 
Dec. 10, 1962 
1:20 p.m. 
Gorakhpur 
Male 


Karakarnsha 4 Satu 
Sun | Venus | Lagna eral 
ercuy (AK) e 


Mi 
Chart 8 
M Mar. 24, 1945 
10:00 a.m. 
Aligarh 
Male 


me] | 


by 
Lagna 
Saturn 
Moon 
Jupiter 


Sun 


Apr. 8, 1960 
0:09 a.m. 


~ Ludhiana 


Male 


ter 


Annexure-1B : Category '8* — Non-technical 


Chart 11 
Aug. 14, 1953 
10:55 p.m. 
Yamuna Nagar 
Male 


Nov. 23, 1957 
11:54 a.m. 
Pilani 


Venus Jupiter 
Rah 


March 6, 1946 
6:20 p.m. 
Vishakhapatnam 


Rahu 
upiter (R 
8 
Lagna 
9 S 


Aug. 11, 1964 
07:22 hrs 
Moradabad 


L 
Jupiter (R) 


Dec. 22, 1965. 
5:45 p.m. 
Cuttack 


Jupiter 
(R) 
Ketu 


Feb. 10, 1950 


Aug. 28, 1966 
Mid night 
Delhi 


E Lagna 4 
Jupiter Moon 


BOK 
Se Ni 


63 


SK 


agna Jupiter 
Venus Ke 
5 


Chart 19 
Oct. 19, 1932 


Jupiter 
Venus Kea 


akamsha 
lupiter (R 
4 


Annexure II : Analysis from Karakamsha (Jaimini Aspects) 
Category 'A' (Chart | to 10) and Category ‘B’ (Chart 11 to 20) 


Technical Influences Non-Technical Influences 


Chart. Karakamsha 10thlord 10th house Karakamsha 10th lord 10th house} 
No. Lagna Lagna 


l. Mars Rahu Mars Sun Venus Sun 
2. Mars - Rahu-Ketu Moon - Mercury 
Saturn Ketu Saturn Sun 
3. Rahu-Ketu Saturn Rahu-Ketu Moon Venus Moon 
4, Mars Mars Mars Sun Mercury Jupiter 
Rahu-Ketu Rahu-Ketu — Saturn Mercury Jupiter 
Rahu Jupiter 
Venus ___Sun Moon_Venus 
6. Saturn Ketu Rahu Moon Jupiter Moon 
Rahu-Ketu Jupiter 
7. Mars - Mercury Venus Mercury 
Rahu 
8. Saturn - Saturn Sun Venus Sun 
Rahu-Ketu Rahu-Ketu Mercury Mercury 
9. Saturn Rahu-Ketu Saturn Jupiter Moon Jupiter 
Mars Rahu Sun Sun 
0. Saturn Saturn Saturn 
Rahu-Ketu Rahu-Ketu Rahu-Ketu 


iy Saturn Mars Saturn Moon Jupiter Moon 
Ketu Venus Sun Venus 
2s - Saturn - Jupiter Sun Jupiter 
Ketu Venus Moon Venus 
3. Mars Saturn Mars Venus Jupiter Venus 
4. Rahu-Ketu - Rahu-Ketu Venus Venus 


Saturn Saturn Mercury Moon 
Mars Mars Moon Mercury 


5. Saturn Rahu-Ketu  - Sun 
Moon Moon Moon 
Sun Sun Sun 
Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter 
kB Rahu-Ketu Saturn Rahu-Ketu - Jupiter Sun - 
Mars Mars Ven Moon 
8. Saturn Mars Saturn - Mercury - 
Venus 


9. Ketu Ketu Mars Jupiter Jupiter Moon 
Saturn Venus Sun Sun 
Sun Mercury Mercury 


Mercury 


Jupiter Venus Moon 
Moon Mercury Venus 


Venus Merc. Mercury 


Annexure III : Analysis from Lagna (Ascendant) 
Category 'A' (Chart 1 to 10) and Category 'B' (Chart 11 to 20) 


Technical Influences Non-Technical Influences 


Chart. Lagna 10th lord 10th house Lagna 10th lord 10th house 
Mars Rahu-Ketu Saturn Moon 
Rahu 
Mars Mars Rahu-Ketu Moon 
Saturn Mars — 
Ketu Venus Mercury - 
Clubbed 


between 
Sun &Moon 


Mars Saturn Jupiter Jupiter Moon Sun 
Mercury 


Hemmed Saturn 
Between Rahu 
Mars &Ketu 


Saturn Mars Jupiter 
Rahu-Ketu Moon 


Saturn Mars < 
Rahu 


Mars Rahu-Ketu ae . Jupiter 


Mars Rahu-Ketu Jupiter 
Ketu Saturn Mars ea 


10. Saturn Saturn Rahu-Ketu Jupiter Moon 
Mars Saturn Mars 


Rahu aes Ketu Moon 
Jupiter 
Ketu Mars Jupiter 
Rahu-Ketu 


Saturn Mars Venus Mercury 
Rahu 


Rahu-Ketu Mercury Clubbed Jupiter 
Mars Clubbed between 
between SunJupiter 
Sun&Moon 


Mercury Mercury 
Jupiter J cs 
Sun Venus 


‘Rahu-Ketu  Rahu-Ketu Jupiter,Venus Jupiter Moon 


Ketu Mercury 


66 


Annexure IV : Analysis from Moon Lagna 
Category 'A' (Chart 1 to 10) and Category ‘B’ (Chart 11 to 20) 


. 
Technical Influences Non-Technical Influences 


Chart. Lagna 10 Lord 10 House Lagna 10 Lord 10 House 


L_Rahu-Ketu Mars + 
2. 


. Mars Rahu-Ketu Rahu-Ketu 
Saturn 


Venus clubbect 
between 1 
Sun & Moon 


Sun, Mercury Jupiter - 


Rahu-Ketu Sun Clubbed Jupiter 
Mercury between 
Sun/Mercury 
Moon 6c Venus 


6. Rahu-Ketu = 
Saturn Mars 


Jupiter Sun Venus 
Mercury 


Clubbed Jupiter 
between 


Jup. & Merc. 


: Jupiter VendJup 


¥. Ral 
9. Rahu-Ketu Saturn - Jupiter Mercury 
Mars 
0 Mars Rahu-Ketu = Mars Mercury Sun : 
Rahu 
Ral 


‘les Saturn u-Ketu Saturn Jupiter Sun Venus 
Rahu Mars Mercury 


hu-Ketu Mars 


TS 


Saturn Saturn Ketu Sun 


Saturn Mercury 


Moon 


3: Rahu-Ketu. _ Ketu + Saturn | - - Mercury 
Saturn 


Jupiter 
Rahu-Ketu 

Saturn 

Mars 


Rahu-Ketu 
Mars 


Jupiter Clubbed Venus 

between Clubbed 
Sun& between 
Moon Jup 8 Sun 


6. - Rahu-Ketu Rahu ” Sun - i 


. Saturn Jupiter 
Ts Rahu Ketu Saturn - Mercury - 
Jupiter Moon 
8. Mars Mars Rahu-Ketu Mercury Mercury > 
Mars Venus Jupiter Jupiter Moon 
19. - Mars Rahu-Ketu - - Jupiter 
Mars Venus 


20. - Mars Rahu 


Jupiter Jupiter Venus 
Mercury 


Annexure V : Summary Analysis 


Chart —_ Influences Influences Influences Influences Total 
No. from from from of Nakshatra Influences 
Karakamsha Lagna (Asc.) Moon Lagna on 10th Lord 
and 10th House 


Category 'A' 
1 +1 -2 -1 0 -2 
2. -2 -4 -7 -2 -15 
3. -1 +1 -1 -2 -3 
4. -2 +3 +1 0 +2 
5. +4 +1 -1 0 +4 
6. -2 0 -1 0 -3 
Te +2 -1 -3 0 2 
8. 0 -5 0 0 -5 
5, 0 -5 -3 -2 -10 
10. 0 -2 -1 0 -3 

Category ‘B’ 
11 +3 0 -1 2 0 
12 +5 -4 +1 42 +4 
13 +1 0 -4 -2 -5 
14 0 +2. -3 -2 -3 
15 +2 0 -1 -2 -1 
16 +10 +5 -1 -4 +10 
17 -2 +5 +1 +2 +6 
18 0 -2 +2 0 0 
19 +5 +1 -3 +4 +7 


Career Prospects and Ashtakavarga 
applied to Vimshottari Dasha 


PC Verma 


I, KN. Rao has shown me through some examples hov to make 
use first of the sarvashtaka to find out if the transit of planets is 
favourable for a native; then to use bhinnashtaka again. 

Upto this point the astrological analysis is along the familiar lines. 
But Mr. Rao asked me to examine two other points: 


(a) Use Vimshottari dasha and antardasha along with the sarvashtaka 
and bhinnashtaka. Then synthesise them. 


(b) Then he asked me to divide the Vimshottari dasha running into 
eight equal parts and show them against each prastharaka of the 
tenth lord. See if the concerned prastharaka has a plus score in that 
division when a job is got or promotion given. 


Thus this research is divided into four parts: first the transit of planets 
in sarvashtaka, transit of tenth lord and mahadasha lord and antardasha 
lord. The prastharaka of the tenth lord (it being the karma lord) and 
see it in the relevant division of the Vimshottari dasha if there is a plus 
score. 

For the purposes of clarity, each of these parts is being explained with 
one full-fledged example first. In other examples the same research is 
being shown in a condensed form in the proforma devised for the 
purpose. 


The Full Example 


Born on May 11, 1946, this engineer got his first job on January 31, 
1968, a promotion on February 1, 1973 and second promotion in May 
1980. 

On the day this engineer got his first job, the tenth lord Mercury 
was in Aquarius which has forty positive points and is the strongest 
house in the horoscope. 


69 


The Vimshottari mahadasha running at that time was of Rahu. Since 
there is no prastharaka or bhinnashtaka for Rahu, we are taking Venus 
prastharaka because in this case Rahu is in the rashi of Venus. If we 
make eight equal divisions of Rahu mahadasha of eighteen years, each 
division would be of two years and three months. 

Therefore Rahu mahadasha is divided into eight equal parts and the 
starting and ending periods will be: 


Rahu D-M-Y 
Starts 17.07.1965 
Ist part 17.10.1976 ends 
2nd 17.01.1970 
3rd 17.04.1972 
4th 17.07.1974 
Sth 17.10.1976 
6th 17.01.1979 
7th 17.04.1981 
8th 17.07.1983 


Now if we consider the kakshya of Mercury, the tenth lord, it will 
be seen that in Aries (where Mercury is posited) there are positive points 
against the first, second and third kakshyas while fourth and fifth are 
blank and then sixth, seventh and eighth kakshyas have plus score. Thus 
except fourth and the fifth prastharakas remaining six have positive 
score. 


The Analysis 


Now to find out if the time is favourable the following four steps will 
illustrate this piece of research: 


(a) In the Sarvashtaka, the transiting tenth lord Mercury was placed 
in Aquarius (40) when the first job was got; in Capricorn (29) when 
the first promotion was given; and in Aries (29) when the second 
promotion was got. 


(b) The Vimshottari dasha was Rahu-Rahu. Rahu is in the ninth house 
with bhagya lord Venus — a favourable time. 


(c) The Rahu in transit was in Pisces, which in Mercury's bhinnashtaka 
has five positive points and in Venus’ bhinnashtaka has four positive 
points. 


(d) Now the first job was got on January 31, 1968 which falls in the 
second part of the eight divisions of Rahu mahadasha. Now if this 
is correlated to the prastharaka of the tenth lord, there is a positive 
score against this division. So it was favourable. 


_ Mercury Rahu 
Parts “ {Prastharaka} mahadasha 
(10th lord) { 8 parts division 
1 Saturn + 17-7-65 to 
3°45' 17-10-67 
ll Jupiter + 17-1-70 
7°30' 
TI Mars + 17472 
11°15 
17-7-14 
15°0' : 
V_ Venus 17-10-76 
18°45 
VI Mercury + 17-1-79 
22°30 : 
VII Moon + 17-4-81 
26°15" 


IV Sun 


VIII Lagna 


+ 17-7-83 
30°-0' 


Event 1 

(First job) January 31, 1968 

Dasha favourable. 10th lord : 40 pts. 
Rahu 29°5' (+). 8-parts (+). 
Mercury 5°13" (+) 


Event 2 

(First promotion) February 1, 1973 
Dasha favourable. 10th lord : 29 pts. 
Rahu 22°33’ (+). 8-parts (+). 
Mercury 20°52" (+) 


Event 3 

(Second Promotion) May 1, 1980. 
Dasha favourable. 10th lord : 29 pts. 
Rahu 2°0' (+). 8-parts (+). 

Mercury 3°43’ (+). 


(1st Job) 
Jan. 31, 1968 
Dasha: Rah-Rah 
Mercury 5°13' 


(First Promotion) 

Feb. 1, 1973 
Dasha: Rah-Rah 
ain Mercury 20°52’ 


(Second Promotion) 
May 1, 1980 
Dasha Rah-Rah 
Mercury 3°43' 


a 
Mercury 
ee a | ra 


72 


When the first promotion was got on February 1, 1973 the fourth 
division had no positive score. 

But when the second promotion was got in May 1980 in the seventh 
part of Rahu's dasha there was a positive score. 


Conclusion 
If a four-fold analysis is made the result obtained is : 
(a) In Sarvashtaka, the transit of the tenth lord was very favourable. 


(b) The Vimshottari dasha periods running were either associated with 
the ninth house (bhagya) or with the tenth lord or the tenth house. 


(c) The transit of the mahadasha lord in the bhinnashtaka of the tenth 
lord and in the case of Rahu, of Venus in this case (because he is 
in the rashi of Venus) was not weak. 


(d) In the eight parts division of the mahadasha running, two out of 
three times there were positive points. 


If such application is done in other cases what are the results and 
if the percentage of success is more than seventy, it can be said to be 
a valid research. 


Summary 


When a question is asked whether time is favourable for getting a job 
or promotion, it is mainly the dasha or antardasha that guides us. This 
is a very dependable approach and more often than not, it comes out 
correct. There are however some occasions when mahadasha and 
antardasha are favourable the job is not got or promotion not given. 
There must be some weakness some where. Where can this weakness 
be detected? It must be seen in the transit ifit is favourable. But transit 
without Ashtakavarga can be misleading many times. 

In this paper an attempt has been made to show how the transits 
can be effectively made use of through Ashtakavarga. This has been 
done in three ways: 


(a) The transit of 10th lord in Sarvashtaka. 
(b) The transit of Mahadasha and Antardasha lords in Sarvashtaka. 


(c) The division of vimshottari dasha in 8 equal parts and then marking 
out each part according to the plus or minus score in the prastharaka 
of the 10th lord and in the rashi in which the 10th lord is posited. 


In all these cases it has been seen that when majority of these were 
favourable only then good events took place. 


73 


The eight parts division in Vimshottari dasha is a novel application. 
Here this popular dasha system has been divided into eight equal parts 
without any reference to the traditional antardasha of Vimshottari. 
Note: 

(a) In Annexure I the 8 parts division of Vimshottari mahadasha of 
all the nine planets has been given. 


(b) Since there are no Bhinnashtaka of Rahu and Ketu, they have been 
treated as owners of the houses in which they are posited. 


Observation 


This theory has been tested on twenty horoscopes and in eighteen cases 
the results were positive. This is not a conclusive research, it can be 
refined and improved upon. 


Annexure-I 
Vimshottari Mahadasha divided in 8 Equal Parts 


19yrs 


vad 


0-10-15} 2-1-15 


2-7-15] 6-415} 6-0-0 


12-6-0 {[1-10-15 


6-1-15 | 14-10-19 140-0 


74 


Sept. 3, 1942 
11:40 p.m. 
Kaithal 
10th lord Jupite 


Event 1 

(First job) August 9, 1967 
Dasha favourable. 

Jupiter 26 pts. Saturn 37 pts. 
Jupiter 22°17" (+). 8-parts 4) 


Jupiter 
Prastharaka 


Event 2 

(Govt. job) Nov. 21, 1969 
Dasha favourable. 

Jupiter 23 pts. Mercury 31 pts. 
8-parts (+). 


I 4-1 _4- 

Jupiter + 28-4-68 | 28-1-85 
7°30’ 

M1 Mars + 28-4-70 | 13-6-87 
L1*15' Z 

IV Sun 28-4-72 | 20-10-89 
15°O' 

Vv Venus 28-4-74 | 13-3-92 
18°45 
Mercury 28-4-76 28-7-94 
22°30' 

VII Moon + 28-4-78 | 13-12-96 
26°15" 

Vul Lagna 28-4-80 | 28-4-99 


Event 3 

(Promotion) April, 1975. 

Dasha favourable. 

Jupiter 37 pts. Sun 37 pts. 

Jupiter 11°58". Sun 26°0S'(+). S-parts (+). 


Event 4 

(Promotion) Nov. 15, 1986 
Dasha favourable. 

Jupiter 28 pts. Satu 31 pts. 
Ketu 27 pts. Jupiter 23°33'(+). 
Saturn 13°52'(+). Ketu 25°25'(+). 
S-parts (+) 


Event 1 
(1st Job) 


Aug. 9, 1967 
Dasha : Jup-Sat | Moon 


(Govt. Job) 
Nov. 21, 1969 


Dasha: Jup-Mer 
Jupiter 2°55'(+) 


(Promotion) 
April 1975 


(Promotion) 
Nov. 15, 1986 


Mars | Dasha: Sat-Ket 
Jupiter 23°33'(+) 


Feb. 12, 1954 
Jullundur 
10th lord: Merc. 


Event 1 

(First job) April 30, 1975 
Mercury lagna and 10th lord 
therefore dasha favourable. 
Mercury 30 pts (+). 
Mercury 28°06" (+). 

Mars 20°26' (+). 

8-parts (+) 

Event 2 

(Govt. job) Angust 10, 1987 
Mercury 27 pts. Rahu 31 pts. (*) 
Rahn 24°45' (+). 

Mercury 21°08" (+). 

8-parts (+). 


Event 3 

(Promotion) December 25, 1982 
Ketu in 10th in birth 

therefore dasha favourable. 

Ketu 44 pts. 

Ketu 10°44' (4). 

Mercury 27°43" (+) 

8-parts (+) 


Ken 


Mer 
Vems Su 


(Promotion) 


Dec. 25, 1982 
Dasha: Ket-Ket 


jupiter 
Son |S 


Case 4 


Feb. 24, 1949 
10:15 a.m. 
Dhanbad (Bihar) 


10th lord Saturn 


Saturn Event 1 


Prastharaka mahadasha (First job) May 7, 1974 
(10th lord) | 8 parts division Rahu in lagna in birth therefore 


5 dasha favourable. Rahu : 41 pts. 
oe aide Saturn bhin. (6). Saturn 8°18' 4) 
Event 2 
II Jupit 12-3-76 
ae fe eee Sl (First promotion) June 5, 1974 
Dasha favourable. . 
a 12-6-78 Rahu 41 pts. (+). Rahu 0°34’. 
11°15 Jupiter 22*48'. Saturn 11°39 (+). 
IV Sun + 12-9-80 Saturn bhinnashtaka (6). 
15°0' 
Vv Venus 12-12-82 
18°45 : 
VI Mercury + 12-3-85 
22°30 
VII Moon 12-6-87 
26°15' 
VIN Lagna 12-9-89 
30°0" 


Event 3 
(Second Promotion) March 10, 1977 
Note Here either sarvashtaka points or dosha and antardasha lords or bhinnashtaka points 
t 10th lord are favourable. 


Rahu 30 pts. Rahu bhinnashtaka (3). 
Rahu 2°51’. Saturn 17*5'. 

Event 4 

(Third Promotion) July 31, 1986 
Saturn 41pts. Saturn 9*32'. 

Rahu 1°5'. Sun 13°56' (4) 

Saturn bhinnashtaka (6). 


(1st Job) 
May 7, 1974 
Dasha: Rah-Rah 
Saturn 8°18'(+) 


(Promotion) 
June 5, 1974 
Dasha: Rah-Jup 
Saturn 11°39'(+) 


VLagna 
Venus | Jupiter 
Ketu 


Event 3 
(Promotion) 


Sun 


Jupiter 


(Promotion) 
July 31, 1986 


Dasha: Rah-Sun 
Saturn 9°32’ 


Authors and Journalists 
an Astrological Enquiry 
Col A K Gour 


Benefics waft in caressingly enveloping one in the loving arms and 
then they deliver the message softly, decently and with courtesy. 
Meghdoot the cloud messenger of Kalidasa owed his creation to Jupiter, 
Venus, Mercury and a benefic Moon. Harshness, violence, thundering 
skies and erupting earth announce the message of malefics. 'Desert 
Storm’ the messenger of Bush was ruthless, crude, cruel and indecent; 
conceded to be a technological marvel, it owed its creation to Mars, 
Saturn, Rahu and a malefic Moon. Rahu, Saturn and Moon getting too 
close to the Sun on that day, January the 16th, 1991, added fuel to the 
maleficence of these planets. Art and culture promote the good, caring 
and concerned living by spreading the loving benignancy, they open the 
frontiers; technology on the other hand protects the frontiers by threats 
and force. Art is the Benefics’ domain and Technology, the kingdom 
of the Malefics. 

Writing is an art. Who else but the ‘Devagurv’ Jupiter should gift 
it. Mercury also pitches in; not only is he the prince but more 
importantly he is the one who is carrying Jupiter's genes — and they 
show. 

An author is some one who brings anything into being; a beginner 
of an action; an original writer of a ‘Granth’. The author is Jupiterian, 
steady, deep and contemplative thinker, producing a work of substance 
whose effect is long lasting. A journalist produces ‘literature in a hurry*. 
He is mercurial, quick, witty and fleeting. His work is applauded 
handsomely but is remembered for a short period. Venusian effect leads 
to the creation of short works that are more artistic and soft, a benefic 
Moon makes poetry gush out, imagination soar and nobility thrive. 

The benefics have made a writer and have helped in the production 
of his works; he now needs a Mars or a Ketu to print his works and 
to sell the work Saturn and Rahu's assistance would be invaluable. 

This paper aims at finding out the Authors and Journalists from a 
study of their horoscopes. The horoscopes are being studied within the 


31 


confines of the principles that have been enunciated below. Two 
different systems — the Parashari and the Jaimini, are being used. Five 
horoscopes of authors and journalists are being placed under the 
microscope of the principles and the efficacy of these principles is being 
ascertained under both, the Parashari and the Jaimini, systems. 


THE PRINCIPLES 
Parashari 


The First Principle 


The houses and lords connected with writing are, 3rd, 5th and 10th. 
Mercury produces the journalists whereas Jupiter produces the authors. 

The stronger the PAC (Position, Aspect, Conjunction) bond of the 
lords of 3, 5 and 10; Mercury and Jupiter the more meritorious the 
author — obviously Jupiter will dominate — should Mercury dominate 
a meritorious journalist will result. A combined strength of Jupiter and 
Mercury will result in an author cum journalist. 

The First Principle, therefore, is PAC bonding of 3rd, 5th, 10th, 
Mercury and Jupiter. 


The Second Principle 


Mars and Mercury in mutual aspect promote an excellent journalist. 
Mars denotes ink while Mercury stands for paper. Any link between 
these two helps-Mercury posited in Aries or in Scorpio or Mars in 
Mercury's rashis, a link in the Navamsha, all promote journalism in 
conformity with their strength. 

The Second Principle is Mars-Mercury bond. 


Jaimini 
The Third Principle 


Jaimini Rishi laid down 2nd, 3rd and Sth as the houses and lords that 
promote writing. Ifthe lords ofthe 2nd, 3rd, 5th, Mercury and Jupiter 
are in Jaimini aspects, writing gets going. 

The Jaimini aspects in brief are: a fixed rashi aspects all moveable 
rashis except the adjacent rashi. For example Taurus will aspect Cancer, 
Libra and Capricorn. A moveable rashi will aspect all the fixed rashis 
except the adjacent rashi. For example Aries will aspect Leo, Scorpio 
and Aquarius. A dual rashi will aspect the other three dual rashis. 

The Third Principle is 2nd, 3rd, 5th, Mercury and Jupiter in Jaimini 
aspects. 


82 


The Fourth Principle 


Karakamsha — the Navamsha that is occupied by the Atmakaraka (AK) 
is the Karakamsha. It's rashi is called the Karakamsha rashi. In the natal 
horoscope; the Karakamsha rashi, the planets posited in it, the 2nd, 3th 
and 5th houses from it, and the planets posited, aspecting or otherwise 
influencing these areas assume importance. Jupiter in this position 
makes one an all round genius, his aspect grants well founded 
knowledge and makes the man a true traditionalist. Mercury makes one 
a Mimansaka, some one with a sharp, penetrating and probing intellect. 

The Fourth Principle is Karakamsha rashi and 2nd, 3rd, Sth from it. 


Case Study One 


The horoscope is of Mr. Giri Lal Jain, a noted journalist, and former 


Birth details: July 26, 1922 at 9:10 p.m. ast) at Delhi. 


Lagna 21°27' Mars 19°03' Venus 28°28' 
Sun 10°05' Mercury 27°09" Saturn 10°18" 
Moon 8°20' Jupiter 19°48’ Rahu 9°58" 


Balance: Ketu 2-0-27 


83 


Editor of The Times of India. A respected sober Political coloumnist, 
whose opinion matters and who moulds public opinion. Let us examine 
it vis-a-vis the enunciated principles. 


1. PAC bonding of 3rd, 5th, 10th, Mercury and Jupiter 


(a) Lord of 3rd and 10th is Mars, posited in 10th house. Mars is 
aspecting the Sth house and the 5th lord Mercury, posited in the 
5th house. This is a strong positional bond-the lords posited in their 
own houses. The aspect of the lord of 3 and 10 on the lord of 5 
further strengthens the bond. 


(b) Mercury, the 5th lord in Sth house gives additional Mercurial strength. 


(c) Notice the absence of Jupiter from this bond. Jupiter denotes 
authorship. 


2. Mars-Mercury bond 


Mars aspects Mercury. Lord of 10th in contact with the lord of 5th leads 
to the kendra-trikona relationship. Mars is also in the nakshatra of 
Mercury and Mercury is in the nakshatra of Jupiter — he lorded over 
the best known national Daily. 


3. 2nd, 3rd, 5th, Mercury and Jupiter in Jaimini aspects 


Lords of 2nd, 3rd, 5th are Jupiter, Mars and Mercury respectively. Lord 
of 3rd, Mars aspects his own house. Mercury and Jupiter, the lords of 
2nd and 5th, are in mutual aspect. A strong bond, gaining additional 
strength by Mars in Mercury's nakshatra is their. . 


4. Karakamsha rashi and 2nd, 3rd, 5th from it 


The Karakamsh a rashi is Gemini and its lord Mercury is posited in 
it. The Sun is in second house giving authority, the Moon and Venus 
in the third house aspecting Libra, 5th house rashi led to prolific and 
continuous writing-Venus also grants authorship of small works. 
Gemini has the aspect of Jupiter, Saturn and Ketu on it. Mercury in 
Gemini makes him a reputed journalist; Jupiter gives him poise, depth 
and knowledge; Saturn underscores his political wisdom; and Ketu, 
being, Mars-like, gives him the control of the print media. 

It is worth noticing that Jupiter is located with’ Saturn and Rahu. 
Rahu is posited within with Jupiter making his views heard with respect 
in foreign countries. Saturn's conjunction with Jupiter and it's aspect 
(Parashari) on Mars and Mercury makes him a respected (Jupiter) 
political (Saturn) journalist (Mercury) who has authority (Mars) over 
the print media. 


84 


Case Study Two 


The horoscope now placed below belongs to a journalist and author. 
Shri Joglekar headed the Press Trust of India and is the author of a 
number of books. 


1. PAC bonding of 3rd, 5th, 10th, Mercury and Jupiter. 


Lords of 3rd and 5th are posited in their own houses. Lord of 10th 
aspects both, the houses and their lords, from the 9th house. A fairly 
strong bond. The absence of Mercury stands out. 


2. Mars-Mercury bond 


Exalted Mars aspects Mercury. The bond is boosted by the location of 
the 4th lord (Mercury) in Aries the Mooltrikona a rashi of the 9th lord 
(Mars). He headed the PTI. 


Birth details: April 30, 1924, 4:30 a.m. (ST) Amravati. 


Lagna 0°29' Mars 0°14" Venus 15°17 
Sun 29°57' Mercury 18°57" Saturn (R) 6°42’ 
Moon 5°34' Jupiter (R) 27°01' Rahu 6°25" 


Balance: Satum 15-9-24 


FLagna 
karkamsha' 
Apr. 13, 1924 


4:30 a.m. (IST) 


85 


3. 2nd, 3rd, 5th, Mercury and Jupiter in Jaimini aspects 


Lords of 2nd, 3rd, Sth are Mars, Venus and the Moon. Venus and the 
Moon the lords of 3rd and 5th are in mutual aspect. Lord of 2nd receives 
the aspect of Jupiter. Mercury placed in 2nd is in mutual aspect with 
Jupiter. It is also noticeable that Jupiter is in the nakshatra of Mercury. 
A strong bond between both Mercury and Jupiter exists. 


4, Karakamsha rashi and 2nd, 3th, 5th from it 


Pisces is the Karakamsh a rashi. Mercury is in 2nd; Venus in 3rd and 
the Moon in 5th are in their own houses. The Moon and Mercury are 
aspected by Jupiter and Ketu — printing (Ketu) journalism (Mercury) 
authorship (Jupiter) are promoted. 

Jupiter lord of 10th aspecting the lords of 3rd and 5th along with 
their houses and being placed in the nakshatra of Mercury gave him 
the gift of authorship. Venus also promotes writing. In this case Jupiter 
being in a better position than Mercury we have a better author; compare 
it with the first case where a blemished Jupiter inhibited authorship and 
the validity of the principles begins to get proved. 


Case Study Three 

This is the horoscope of the Founder Editor of the National Herald; 
a renowned journalist Shri K. Rama Rao. 

1. PAC bonding of 3rd, Sth, 10th, Mercury and Jupiter 


Lords of 3rd and 10th are posited together in close conjunction. 
Mercury is also posited in the same house. Lord of 5th is posited in 
10th. A strong bond of the lords of 3rd and 10th with Mercury in a 
Venusian house gives excellence in journalism. Jupiter is Vargottama. 
The lord of 3rd is in Jupiter's nakshatra, indicating authorship. 


2. Mars-Mercury bond 

Mars is posited in Gemini the house owned by Mercury. Mars aspects 
Mercury in Navamsh. 

3. 2nd, 3rd, Sth, Mercury and Jupiter in Jaimini aspects 


Jupiter is the lord of 2nd and 5th whereas Saturn owns the 3rd. Jupiter 
and Saturn are in mutual aspect. Mercury and Jupiter are also in the 
mutual aspect, strong bond boosted by the mutual aspect of the Sun 
and Jupiter. 


4. Karakamsh a rashi and 2nd, 3rd, 5th from it 
Karakamsha rashi has Ketu in 2nd; Jupiter in 3rd; and Mercury in 5th 


86 


Birth details: November 9, 1896, 8.35:39 am. Gunrur. 


Lagna 26°5' Mars 6°38" Venus 26°29 
Sun 24°49' Mercury 13°21' Saturn 28°46' 
Moon 17*18' Jupiter 14°35' Rahu 27°48" 


Balance: Venus 14y-3m-9d 


K Rama Rao 
Nov. 9, 1896 
8.35:39 a.m. 


from it. An excellent combination for press and journalism, add Jupiter's 
aspect to Mercury, and also to the Sun and Saturn who happen to be 
located in Jupiter's nakshatra; and you have a respected, knowledgeable 
and witty journalist. 

Shri Rama Rao was a legendary journalist. He with his National 
Herald, heralded the advent of professional journalism in the country. 
He laid down the guidelines, the style sheets, the editorial layouts for 
others to follow. He trained a generation of journalists; Jupiter in 10th 
— testifies to his teaching-here was a teacher, a journalist extraordinaire. 


Case Study Four 


Shri Seetharamaiah was a scholar, astrologer, journalist and author. 


87 


Birth details: March 27, 1911, 7:45 p.m. Sh. Seetaramaiah, Madras. 


Lagna 4°40’ Mars 17°27 Venus 11°48’ 
Sun 13°11 Mercury 20°25" Saturn 12°49" 
Moon 5°43' Jupiter (R) 20°53’ Rahu 17°33' 


Lagna ey 
Jupiter (R) (AK) 


Balance: Mars Oy-5d-27m 


Ketu 


I. PAC bonding of 3rd, Sth, 10th, Mercury and Jupiter 


The lords are Jupiter, Saturn and the Moon. The Moon the lord of 10th 
is posited in 5th and is aspected by Jupiter the lord of 3rd. The lord 
of 5th (Saturn) and the lord of 3rd (Jupiter) are in mutual aspect. Jupiter 
being retrograde also gives the effect of 12th house; from this house 
Jupiter and Mercury get in mutual aspect. 


2. Mars-Mercury bond 

This is a weak link. In the Navamsh a Mercury's house has Mars posited 
in it. This denies a control over the print media. 

3. 2nd, Sr, 5th, Mercury and Jupiter in Jaimini aspects 

The lord of 2nd, Mars aspects his own house. The lord of 3rd aspects 


88 


the 5th house; the Sun and Mercury aspect the 3rd house; the 2nd and 
5th have the aspect of Saturn, Venus and Rahu; and Sth receives the 
additional aspect of Jupiter and Ketu. This is a strong bonding, Ketu 
and Jupiter aspecting the Sth give him scholarship and astrology. 


4. Karakamsh a rashi and 2nd, 3rd, 5th from it 


Aries is the Karakamsha rashi; 2nd, 3rd and 5th from it are devoid of 
planets the 2nd has the aspect of Mars, Jupiter and Ketu on it and the 
5th has the aspect of Saturn, Venus, Jupiter and Ketu on it. This has 
given to him authorship, journalistic learnings and astrological 
scholarship. 


Case Study Five 
Shri R. Santhanam, editor and astrologer. 


Birth details: May 21, 1944, 8:20 p.m., Tirupati. 


Lagna 18°44" Mars 6°21’ Venus 27°22' 
Sun 7T17' Mercury 14°57" Saturn 3°09 
Moon 28°28" Jupiter 21°07' Rahu 6°05' 


Balance: Sun 5y-2m-7d 


R Santhanam Ione 


May 21, 1944 
8:20 p.m. 


VLagna 
Venus 
Moon 


Venus 
9 


89 


1, PAC bonding of 3rd, 5th, 10th, Mercury and Jupiter 


Lords are Saturn, Jupiter and the Sun. Lord of 5th aspects 3rd and his own, 
the Sth, house. Mercury and the lord of the [0th are not in the bond. This 
is a weak bond. 


2. Mars-Mercury bond 


Mercury is posited in Aries and Mars is located with Mercury in the 
navamsha. 


3. 2nd, 3rd, 5th, Mercury and Jupiter in Jaimini aspects 
Lord of 3rd (Saturn) aspects 2nd and 5th. A weak bond. 


4. Karakamsha rashi and 2nd, 3rd, 5th from it 


Karakamsh a rashi is Sagittarius. In the 5th from it we find the Moon, 
Venus and Mercury. Mercury is in the nakshatra of Venus this gives 
journalism and authorship. Ketu in 2nd makes him astrologer. The 
Moon, Venus and Mercury aspect Aquarius, the third house from the 
Karakamsha rashi promoting journalism. 

The examination of these horoscopes has established the validity and 
the efficacy of the principles that were enunciated. This has been a 
limited examination since the principles were applied to the horoscopes 
of known figures in the field of writing and journalism. There may be 
hundreds who have these combinations but who do not write: conversely 
there may be people who write but do not have these combinations — 
"Ghost" writing is not the only possible answer. This examination has 
pointed to a direction, has given hope that after examining a larger 
number of horoscopes belonging to persons in different writing milieus 
we can reach definite conclusions. 

I must acknowledge that this enquiry would not have been possible 
without the guidance of Shri K.N. Rao. It is an experience, rare in the 
astrological world, to have an astrologer not only sharing his knowledge 
with his students but also letting them publish the articles under their 
own names. I proudly salute his selflessness. 


Post Script : This article was written in August 1991. The author 
continued his research and in December 1993 produced a book: 
Professions .— Inclination, Fructification and Career Profile. The book has 
a chapter on Authors and Journalists' wherein this profession has been 
dealt with in greater detail and in 'Parashari Paddhati'. 


Successful Indian Women 
in Different Fields 


Kusum Vashishtha 


In writing about successful Indian women in different fields a reference 
has to be, of necessity, made to the famous book of Simon de Beauvoir, 
The Second Sex, in which she has made a devastating attack on male- 
made morality of male dominated societies since ancient times. What 
the great writer missed was the status of social celebrity, Indian women 
in ancient times attained, particularly in Vedic times. What Dr. A:S. 
Altekar in his famous book The Position of Women in Hindu Civilization 
has discussed will complete ly destroy the attack of the great lady writer 
of France. 

Facts, lesser knows to many, can be refered to briefly here. 

",,. Nay we find one of the early Upanishads recommending 
a certain ritual to a house-holder for ensuring the birth of a 
scholarly daughter. 
Atham ya Ieshed Buddhita Me Pandita Jayet" 
(page 3) 

Altekar also refers to ancient authorities to support his thesis. 
Women could be initiated in Vedic studies and were entitled to offer 
sacrifices to Gods. The son was not absolutely necessary for this purpose. 
The marriage of the daughter was not a difficult problem. It was often 
solved by the daughter herself. The dread of a possible widowhood did 
not very much weigh upon the mind of parents, for, as will be shown 
later, "leviate and remarriage were allowed by society and were fairly 
common" (ibid) 

Instead of referring contemptuously to ‘male chauvinists' and 
‘liberated women', it will be obvious that Vedic and post-Vedic 
civilization had reached a rare equilibrium in which a women could be 
a co-equal, Sita of the Valmiki Ramayana is a brilliant debater whose 
sharp intellect is seen at her best when she first convinces Hanuman 
why she would not allow him to take the credit for rescuing her from 
the clutches of Ravana and would instead have her husband, Rama have 


91 


it. She is sharper in her counter-arguments when Rama had desired her 
to have an agni-pariksha in Lanka after the battle. Such debating skill 
would do credit to high class lawyers. 

Draupadi is devastating in her subtle arguments with Yuddhishtira 
when Pandavas after losing everything in the great gambling, go to 
forest to spend a thirteen years period of exile. 

To some extent the culture and civilization of those times is kept 
historically alive in the ancient classics of astrology, which will be 
referred to later. And it too has been stated that besides women's 
character, marriage, children, childlessness, physical beauty etc., there 
are references to Sanyas and Brahmavadini yogas in female horoscope. 

But the material found in those books is too scanty to be of any 
substantial use in the discussion of successful women of our times. A 
hint too has been given that where the Rajayogas in a female horoscope 
are not applicable to her directly, the benefit of these yogas will accrue 
to her husband, inferentially, to her male children too. This was 
generally, true till forty or fifty years ago when women with brilliant 
horoscopes confined themselves to their hqmes, rearing children and 
looking after household duties only. 

The subject matter of research of this paper is the discussion of the 
horoscopes of such women as have themselves taken part actively in 
various public spheres and have become well-known. It has been felt 
that many of the achievements of notable Indian women cannot be 
explained with the help of the astrological material available about 
female horoscopy in ancient texts. For instance: 


I. The combination for a Brahmavadin is: if the Lagna is an even sign 
with strong Mercury, Jupiter with the Moon the women will be a 
Brahmavadin. 


2. Ifthere is Jupiter in the Lagna and the Moon in the seventh house 
or a strong Venus in its own shadvarga be in the tenth house, such 
girl, even if born in a poor family, would be a queen. 


3. If in a women's horoscope Mercury and Venus in the seventh houses 
and the Moon in the eleventh house get aspected by Jupiter (who 
must naturally be in the third house) she becomes a queen and is 
praised by scholars and intelligent men. 


4. Ifa strong, exalted, and full Moon in the fourth house is aspected 
by Jupiter in a woman's horoscope, such a women will be highly 
intelligent and versatile scholar. (This can be only for Aquarius 
Lagna, with the Sun, Jupiter in the tenth house. 


92 


5. Ifthe Lagna is an even sign in a women's horoscope and Mars, 
Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are strong, such a women will be 
famous, intelligent and happily married. 


6. Ifthe Moon is in Cancer in Lagna, in a female horoscope, and 
Venus, Mercury, Jupiter and the Moon are strong, such women 
would be scholarly, famous and artistic. 


It will be seen that in all these combinations two points are stressed 
repeatedly : Lagna in even sign and strong benefics only. 

Will these combinations help us explain the rise of successful women 
of India? 

It is the common experience of every astrologer that malefics, strong 
and well placed form very good Rajayogas, in both male and female 
horoscopes and take them high in science, technology, law and public 
life. In dealing with female horoscopes, we must not stress her sex, but 
instead, treat it as the horoscope of a male for all predictions in the India 
of our times when the female literacy is touching forty percent (199! 
census) unlike half-percent in the beginning of the century. India is 
harking back to the Vedic times in giant strides as far as the rise of 
women is concerned though in the strapings and style of a western 
woman, it appears. But that is a deceptive impression because Indian 
women in Vedic times had full social and education freedom when the 
west had not even moved out of the cave stage of its development. 


Approach 


(a) In all the horoscopes of notable Indian women being discussed here 
the normal well known Raja, Arishta, Dhana yogas are being 
applied through wel-known Parashari principles. 


(b) The role of exalted planets, benefic and malefic, has been taken into 
account and also the role of such debilitated planets as they cause 
Rajayogas in exceptional cases. 


(c) In the dasha scheme, primary importance has been given to the 
Vimshottari Dasha though for cross-checking Jaimini's Chara 
dasha too has been applied, wherever necessary. 


THE SAMPLE 


Five horoscopes have been chosen : one in political life; two famous in 
their respective artistic fields; two women Police Officers. 


Case Study One 


The first horoscope is that of Kiran Bedi, not merely Indian's but 


93 


perhaps world's best known woman police officer. It is not known to 
many that even till 1991 there is no such high ranking women police 
officer in USA or UK. 


Dasha 


A right Dasha must come to right time for rise in a career. She was 
born with a balance of Saturn Mahadasha of 17-1-23 and from second 
August 1966 her dasha of Mercury, Lagna and the tenth hose started. 
Mercury with Mars (a position of authority and police service too) and 
the Sun denoting a government administrative job, in the ninth house 
she succeeded in the All India Competitive Examination in 1972 and 


Caae Study One - birth details: June 9, 1949; 2:10’ p.m.; Arnritsar. 


Lagna 17°26' Mars 6°22" Venus 9°12' 
Sun 25°1' Mercury (R) 17*11' Satum 729 
Moon 4°37' Jupiter (R) 8°26" Rahu 1°19' 
Vimshottari dasha balance: Saturn 17y-lm-23d 

AK AmK BK MK PK GK DK 
Sun Mercury Venus Jupiter Saturn Mars > Moon 


i Ye 


June 9, 1949 
2:10 p.rn. 


7 
ete] mm || 


94 


was elected for the police service, Mars associated with Mercury 
asserting itself. In 1975 in Mercury-Mars she was selected for an award 
Year of Women’. 

In Jaimini's Charadasha scheme she got, after Virgo, Libra, Scorpio 
and Sagittarius, Capricorn dasha from 1968 to 1973. From Capricorn, 
Mars, Mercury, Sun and Saturn aspect both tenth house (Libra) and 
Capricorn beside strengthening the fifth house through the aspect of 
Jupiter. And Mercury is her Amatya Karaka. 

Bot! in Vimshottari and Chara dasha she got favourable time at the 


time 0. her career-making. 
c 


Notable features 


Her ninth house contains her Lagna lord showing her luck and in 
association with Mars and the Sun the courage, dignity and authority, 
which she has been accused of exercising with impunity which is natural 
as Mars as eight lord associated with her tenth lord did give her a 
controversial image quite often. 

She never hesitated to take strong action. She has the road map of 
Delhi on her finger tips and discusses problems of traffic of this 
metropolis without any reference to any notes or a road map: When 
in charge of Delhi traffic she struck terror when there was wrong parking 
of vehicles with her, now, well-known crane got them lifted without 
caring for anyone. She had earned the nickname of ‘Crane Bedi' then. 


The Tenth House 


There is an exchange of ninth and tenth lords in this horoscope giving 
a strong Rajayoga. Venus in the tenth, denoted, earlier, vehicles in her 
career and now drug-addiction in which field, with her dedicated 
campaigns she has become famous. If her tenth lord and tenth house 
are taken together there is visible the influence of as many as seven 
planets here, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter and the Moon being the benefics 
and Saturn, Mars and the Sun among malefics. No wonder, she is a 
famous women. 

Strangely all the three malefics, Saturn, Mars and the Sun are owners 
of 6th, 8th and 12th houses here. Saturn as the sixth lord aspecting her 
tenth lord gives her a service career and also litigations, initiated by her 
and also against her, by lawyers of Delhi recently. Mars as the eighth 
lord makes her controversial always and the Sun as the twelfth lord has 
caused problems in her career when she was transferred to far-off places 
as hostility to her grew stronger. 

But Mars and the Sun have also given her very sensitive, high security 
jobs in 1976 with Smt. Indira Gandhi and in 1978 with Sri Charan Singh. 


95 


Jupiter's aspect on the tenth lord won her the gratitude of Delhi's 
public when she had the courage to introduce one-way traffic in Delhi. 
But since it was done in Mercury-Rahu it brought in lot of protest 
initially but she soon won public approbation when traffic flow started 
looking very civilised. 

Jupiter, representing religion, is debilitated in her horoscope. Once 
she earned the wrath of Hindus of Delhi when during a Ramlila 
celebration she changed the route of the Ramlila procession. Enraged 
Hindus threw stones at her and she was transferred to Delhi West soon 
after. 

Now a horoscope like this if we do not see it as any male horoscope 
we will miss significant points. There are string of Rajayogas present 
here; Parashari ones are the exchange of ninth and tenth lords and the 
influence of seven Planets on the tenth lord and the tenth house. More 
significant are Jaimini’s rajayoga : Amatya Karak and Atmakaraka (the 
Sun and Mercury) in the ninth house. Then besides, vargottama Rahu 
and Ketu, Jupiter, Mercury and the Sun are in their own navamsha. In 
Navamsha, the tenth lord Jupiter is in his own house. 

In whole of her Ketu dasha she ran into controversies but as soon 
as the Venus dasha started, she got herself involved in the praiseworthy 
task of de-addiction, a philanthropic work in these days of international 
drug-trafficking. 


Case Study Two 


In the case of Kiran Bedi her birth details were obtained from her father 
and in the case of Yamini Hazarika, another women L.P.S. officer in 
Delhi she very gracefully passed on her birth details on phone but neither 
other life events could be got nor, she being a low profile officer, much 
information about her be obtained through newspapers. 


1. She was born in Rahu Mahadasha with a balance of 4 years, nine 
months and four days and the next dasha was of Jupiter, her tenth 
lord and exalted,an excellent period for career making. And she 
made it. 


2. In Jaimini's Chara dasha she got up to 1966 the dasha of Gemini 
and upto 1978 of Taurus which covers her years of career-making. 
With Mercury in Taurus, the period of Amatyakaraka should be 
said to have begun. In the next dasha of Aries for two years, with 
the Amatyakaraka aspecting Capricorn, the tenth house from Aries, 
she must have become a full-fledged women police officer. 


Here comparison with Kiran Bedi's horoscope ends and some other 


96 


features appear, so rare in a women's horoscope. 

1. Vargottama Mars in Lagna, who is the sixth and eleventh lord with 
lord the Sun and Ketu - all malefics show a women with unusual 
courage. It is a more like a male horoscope than Kiran Bedi's, 
because Lagna is odd and has three malefics in it. 


Crime against women committed by men and investigated by men 
will get reversed as more and more women police officers do 
investigation into crimes committed by men. A women joining 
1.A.S. or other services makes some news only but a women walking 
like a tigress right into the male preserve like the police service or 
even army, say artillery division with a high rank is still big news. 


Caw Study Two - birth details: June 30, 1955; 4:00 a.m.; Dimapur. : 


Lagna 7°20 Mars 29°24 Venus 26°55" 
Sun 14°8' Mercury 27°0' Saturn (QR) —-21°34" 
Moon 16°28' Jupiter 10°10! Rahu 3°16 
Vimshottari dasha balance: Rahu 11ly-9m~4d 

AK AmK BK MK PK GK DK 
Mars Mercury Venus Saturn Moon Sun Jupiter 


A Lady 
IPS Officer 


June 30, 1955 
4:00 a.m. 
Dimapur 


97 


Vargottama Mars of Hazarika with the Sun and ketu helped her 
enter police service. 


2. Then here are two exalted planets, Jupiter and Saturn. One is the 
tenth and seventh lord and the other eight and ninth lord. Together 
with Vargottama Mars which is like an exalted planet exalted Saturn 
virtually gives to her two exalted malefics. Were we to stick to the 
ancient astrological classics of only benefis being good in a woman's 
case for name and fame, Hazarika's horoscope would have to be 
written off. But because it is too masculine, she has landed in a career 
which is hundred percent masculine. 


3. She has the luck of getting the dasha of exalted Jupiter, followed 
by that of exalted Saturn to be followed by that of Mercury, Lagna 
lord, exalted in navamsha. As in the case of a male so too in the 
case of female, it is the dasha running and the dasha to come that 
is important in astrological foretelling of events. 


4. The mutual aspects between Amatyakaraka, and Putrakaraka and 
between Darakaraka and Amatyakaraka will show a career of 
achievements. 


5. Both Saturn and Jupiter, exalted are in kendras from each other. In 
the fag-end of Saturn's dasha in the sub-period of Jupiter her career 
will reach a stellar climax. It will then be the beginning of the next 
century and she will have crossed the middle level of police hierarchy. 
But the aspect of the eighth lord Saturn on her tenth lord Jupiter 
may create in her a desire to get absorbed in a non-police job later. 


Case Study Three 


In discussing the horoscope of Lata Mangeshkar, the greatest living 
legend in the world of film music in the world, it is worth remembering 
that the world record of singing maximum songs is held by an Indian 
women. She is an Empress among melody-queens of the world. And 
as melody-empress she has left far behind even the melody-kings of the 
world. 


The Dasha Scheme 


It has been shown so far that the dasha one gets at the right time has 
primary importance in shaping one's career. Lata started with a balance 
of Mercury of sixteen years, four months and eighteen days days. Then 
came‘Ketu’s dasha which being in the second house from the Sun, saw 
the end of the career and life of her mentor, her own father, Dinanath 
Mangeshkar, a famous figure in the musical theatre of Maharastra. 


98 


Then came the dasha of Venus in her fourth house and the 
significator of music. It was 1953, six years after the partition of India 
and the most famous melody queen of pre-partition India Noor Jahan 
had left for Pakistan. There was a vacuum for good singers particularly 
female ones while male singers life Rafi, Mukesh and Manna Dey and 
occasional singer like Kishore Kumar had risen high. During this period, 
the famous music director Anil Biswas had disapproved of Lata as that 
"singer with a shrill voice" while other music directors were quick to 
spot in Lata a rare talent. She learnt a tune after hearing it only once 
and was ready like her famous sister Asha for recording it fastest. Then 
the music directors made another discovery — she could sing every type 
of song even improving upon the tunes given to her. So much speed 


Case Study Three - birth details: September 28, 1929; 10:47 p.m.; Indore. 


Lagna 23°28" Mars 1°55' Venus 10°51' 
Sun 12°13' Mercury 0°20' Saturn 1°47' 
Moon y 17*09' Jupiter 29°00" Rahu 21°03' 
Vimshottari dasha balance: Mercury 16y-4m-18d 

AK Amk BK MK PK GK DK 


Jupiter Moon Sun Venus Mars Saturn Mercury 


Sept. 28, 1929 
10:47 p.m. 
Indore 


99 


with such musical embellishments were rarest of a rare musical talent. 
They had discovered a talent, then they found that they were mistaken. 
They had discovered a genius. ; 

In Jaimini she got the dasha of Aquarius, her tenth house aspected 
by her Amatyakaraka, the Moon, who is also aspecting her tenth house 
from Aquarius. It was 1949 and she filled the void left by Noorjehan. 
Shamshad Begum was there but could not have rivalled her in singing 
all types of songs and so melodiously. Ameer Bai Karnataki was already 
being forgotten. Against a team of famous male singers it was one 
female singer only, Lata, and in the full twenty years of Venus dasha 
she achieved which no singer in the history of the world every achieved. 

The most striking feature of her horoscope is that Lagna and four 
planets are in the rashis of Venus, the Sun and Saturn are in the rashi 
of Mercury and Jupiter, the Moon in its own rashi and Venus alone 
is in a non-benefic rashi. 

Unlike, as in the two previous horoscope of women police officers where 
there is strong dominance of malefic planets here the tempo of her life is 
set into motion by benefics and benefic rashis. No wonder Lata is total 
picture of‘effiminacy, more with her voice than in her appearance. 

Jupiter in her Lagna wards off evils while the Moon, an artistic planet 
in the artistic rashi, Karka together with the artistic Lagna in the rashi 
of Venus ‘and the over-all artistic predominance in her horoscope has 
shaped her into what she is, even now, in the sunset of her career. 

Two other well-known facts of her life need explaining. First is her 
marriage not having taken place. This is explained in two ways, first 
her seventh houses is between two malefic surrounding and it second 
from her upapada (Ariesa) Mars and ketu with ineffective Mercury are 
in the seventh house. 

Why and how is Lata so fabulously rich? The reason, her second and 
fifth lord Mercury, dhanakarak is vargottama. 4 

Then her Indu Lagna which falls in Taurus has Jupiter in it and 
Jupiter is her eleventh lord also. 

The only masculine feature in her horoscope is vargottama Mars. She 
asserted her right to have royalty from the sale of her gramaphone 
records and when it was refused by Raj Kapoor she refused to sing for 
his films till he lost the battle. 

There are a string of Rajayogas in her horoscopes : Atmakaraka 
Jupiter and Amatyakaraka the Moon aspect each other. Again 
Atmakaraka and Putrakaraka and Darakaraka aspect each other. 

In the Parashari system the tenth lord aspects his own house, the fifth 
lord is with seventh lord, the fourth lord is in the fifth house and the 


100 


ninth lord is aspecting the fourth lord. Therefore successively even after 
the mahadasha of Venus Lata had the good fortune of the Sun, and 
the Moon dashas till 1989 after which in the dasha now of her twelfth 
lord Mars, in the sixth house she is in semi-retirement to end her 
longest, legendary musical innings in Indian and world films, not before 
singing songs in every well-known Indian language and even in foreign 
language. 
Lata belongs to history and world's legends. 


Case Study Four 


Briefly another horoscope is being discussed of a lady officer of the rank 


Case Study Four - birth details: September 2, 1950, 5:40 p.m., Calcutta. 


Lagna 12°59! Mars 21°0' Venus 27°31' 
Sun 16°23' Mercury (R) 9°43" Saturn 27°48" 
Moon 17°44 Jupiter (R) 8°12' Rahu 5°09" 
Vimshottari dash balance: Venus 13y-5m-24d 

AK AmK BK MK PK GK DK 
Saturn Venus Mars Moon Sun Mercury Jupiter 


Ye 
Lagna | A Lady Officer 
duniees Famous Dancer 
Sept. 2, 1950 
5:40 p.m. 
Calcutta 


Navamsha 


101 


of a deputy secretary, soon to become a joint secretary but famous as 
a Kathak dancer. Some similarity with the horoscope of Lata 
Mangeshkar can be seen here but with a difference. She too has Jupiter, 
her eleventh (and second lord) in her Lagna and she too has the Moon 
in her third house and her Venus is exalted in navamsha. But her Moon 
in the third house is in rashi of Mars also aspected by Mars. 


Dasha 


After Venus dasha she was ready to perform as a well-trained Kathak 
dancer without neglecting her studies in which too she excelled. Then 
in her the Moon dasha which is aspected by Mars she succeeded in all 
India competition and became class one officer continuing her dance 
career in which she had already become distinguished by then. 

The brief period of seven years of Mars between 1980 and 1987 
established her place in India’s dance circles but it was divided attention 
between her responsibilities as an officer and dancer that hindered the 
chances of great celebrity-status as a dancer. In the meantime she 
married a European admirer of hers and has a child to look after as a 
mother.lt is her Rahu dasha now in which her dance-career is folding 
up slowly. 

In Jaimini's Chara dasha between 1968-72 she was having Karka 
dasha containing her Amatyakaraka, Venus with the Moon in the tenth 
and in the next dasha of Leo her Amatyakaraka aspecting her tenth 
house helped her make her career as an officer while continuing as a 
well-known Kathak dancer. 

The Rajayogas are, in Jaimini Atmakaraka conjoined with Putrakaraka 
and Amatyakaraka and Darakaraka aspecting each other. 

Her tenth lord in the ninth house and her Lagna lord aspecting her 
ninth house gave her distinguished politician father besides helping her 
make her own career. 

But the dasha running now is not helpful in pursuing her artistic 
career with greater success. 


Case Study Five 


The last horoscope being discussed is that of an old lady born in 1914, 
now seventy-seven years old and a Member of the Lok Sabha from 
Tamilnadu. She is the well-known Margatham Chandrasekhar who was 
on the same stage as Rajiv Gandhi on the fateful night of 21st May 
1991. Her life has been a story of struggle, first during the independence 
movement when she, a South Indian lady, had the courage to plunge 
in the conservative South into the freedom struggle. 


102 


Dasha 


After three years of Ketu dasha, she got the dasha of her tenth lord, 
Venus in which period she was a well-known freedom fighter in south 
India. It was fame with all the trouble that freedom struggle brought 
in its wake She had no thoughts of marrying. Her Darakaraka, the 
Moon with Ketu aspected by the Saturn, delayed her marriage together 
with the aspects of Mars on Rahu in the seventh house and the seventh 
lord in the eleventh house. She married in 1950 in her thirty-sixth year. 

In Jaimini she had to wait for her dasha of Capricorn 1946-53 where 
her Amatyakaraka, Jupiter is posited to enter parliament. She has never 


Case Study Five -birth details; November 12, 1914; 2:10 a.m.; Madras. 


Lagna 27°58' Mars 7°38" Venus 19°11 
Sun 25°28' Mercury 16°35" Saturn (R) 8°59 
Moon 6°45’ Jupiter 21°36" Rahu 9°04! 
Vimshottari dasha balance: Ketu 3y-5m-12d 

AK Amk BK MK PK GK DK 

Sun Jupiter Venus Mercury = Saturn Mars Moon 


Chandrashekhar 


Nov. 12, 1914 VLapna 
Jupiter 2:10 a.m, Moon 
Madras Ketu 
Venus | Sun 
Mars |Mercury 


VLagna 
Saturn 
Venus 
Rahu 


103 


lost an election. Venus in the fourth house is very good for parliamentary 
career and in this case Mars-Venus combination the ninth and tenth 
lords conjoined giving her an excellent Rajayoga. No wonder she has 
been successively in the cabinet of Pt. Nehru, Indira Gandhi and also 
Rajiv Gandhi. 

She was running Rahu mahadasha, and the Moon sub-period on the 
night of 21st May 1991 when, to look after the arrangements on the 
stage from where Rajiv Gandhi was to address the election meeting, she 
had moved away a few feet from Rajiv Gandhi. When the explosion 
took place she was injured and, hospitalised. The Moon as the twelfth 
lord took her to the hospital. It was not a maraka sub-period which 
explains why this remarkable women who has fought so many battles 
in her life escaped death though she is now recovering fast. 

The Sun in the third house and Saturn in the eleventh house are good 
for her longevity. 


* SUMMARY 


1. In all the five horoscope it has been seen that it is only when a 
favourable dasha comes, that a career is made. 


2. But a favourable dasha can have little utility unless there are strong 
Rajayogas. 


3. The dasha most popular, Vimshottari, should be employed along 
with Jaimini's dasha and correlated with karaka particularly 
Amatyakaraka as is clear from the all the five horoscope. 


4. In all these cases the Amatyakaraka was either in the rashi or was 
in the tenth house or aspecting the tenth hose when their careers 
were made. 


5. But the most significant conclusion derivable from hundreds of 
successful women in different fields of activities is to ignore their 
sex and treat their horoscopes as male horoscope for the purposes 
of astrological scrutiny. 


Tajika-Shastra and Marriage 
Timing of Event 
Dr R K_ Wishwakarma 


Tig marriage in Hindu society is considered to be the most sacred 
institution. The union between the couple has a great conviction that 
sexual love has a deep and spiritual significance. It is not for the 
gratification of one of the most powerful instincts, sex (maithun) after 
abar and nidra but also for performing the basic social function — 
procreation. The mother instinct to have children is the most motivating 
factor for regulating the sex instinct through the institution of marriage 
and for propagation of human species. 

In Hindu astrology, the 7th house from Lagna is the house of spouse. 
Venus is the karaka of wife and Saturn (to some extent) for husband. 
When a person is going to get married, is a question that needs a careful 
examination of the 7th house and the lord of the 7th which should be 
well disposed and unafflicted. Our great Rishis have dealt with the 
subject extensively and formulated certain rule regarding the timing of 
marriage event. Jataka Paarijat enunciates the principle that if the lord 
of the 7th house is associated with Venus, its dasha and bhukti may 
lead to marriage. Failing that the dasha and bhukti of the lord of the. 
Rashi occupied by the planet owning the 2nd house may have the 
marriage producing effect. The dasha and bhukti of the lord of the 10th 
and 9th houses comes next in orer. Lastly note the planet associated 
with the lord of the 7th house or the one occupying it. During dasha 
bhukti of one of these, marriage may take place. The Jataka Paarijat 
further says that the time of marriage can also be determined by the 
total of the figures of the ruler of the asterism occupied by the Moon 
and the lord of the 7th bhava. Add together the figures of the lord of 
Lagna and the 7th house and when Jupiter transits over the rashi and 
navamsha indicated by the result or trines to it, marriage occurs. The 
marriage may also occur when Jupiter traverses Trikona rashi and 
Navamsha rashi occupied by the lord of the 7th house. 

There are some other principles based on Gochar movement of 
planets. Add the longitude of the Moon rashi and that of the lord of 


105 


the 8th house. When Jupiter passes through it; or when Jupiter transits 
through the 2nd house of the navamsha position of the lord of Lagna 
or Jupiter and the Moon are together, marriage is indicated. Other 
indications are also there. Ifthe Moon happens to be 7th lord, its dasha 
and bhukti indicates marriage. 

Besides these classic rules in terms of dasha-bhukti and gochar 
movement of planets, there is another school of thought based on latest 
researches carried out by K.N. Rao! that it is the transit of Saturn and 
Jupiter and their aspectal relation to 7th house, is the primary indicator 
of marriage. "It is the Saturn who unites the bride and bride-groom. 
Saturn, in consultation with Jupiter proposes how and when to tie the 
conjugal knot". So in the timing of event, the Saturn should have 
aspected or have an aspect on (i) Lagna and the 7th house; (ii) Lagna 
lord and the 7th lord; (iii) Lagna lord and 7th house; or (iv) Lagna and 
the 7th lord. The same principle applies to Jupiter also. The duration 
or aspect is two and a half years in case of Saturn and 12 to 15 months 
in case of Jupiter. Besides Saturn who proposes, Jupiter who disposes 
(by giving his sanction and authority), the Mars also plays a very 
prominent role in executing the event. During our discussion with K.N. 
Rao, the secret was disclosed by Rao himself, who attributed this to his 
revered mother who taught him the basics in astrology. 

Now coming to the timing of marriage event according to Tajik- 
Shastra, the following rules have been laid down by Neelkantha, Kesava 
and Yavanacharis and which have been synthesised by B.V. Raman in 
his book Varshaphal. They are as follows: 

1. In a progressed horoscope (PH) when Venus is in 7th house or as 

a lord of 7th gets an aspect of Jupiter; 

2. The lord of Lagna or its sign in birth-chart (BC) is well disposed 
in 7th house of PH; 

3. Sign occupied by Venus in BC is in 7th house of progressed 
horoscope and Venus becomes lord of the year; 

4. If Varshesh (lord of the year) is in 7th house occupied by Venus in 

BC; or if Venus holding one of the Panchadhikaris is associated with 

or aspected by Mars; 


5. If Rashi held by Venus at Radix happens to be the 7th house in 
Varshakundali (PH) and Venus becomes Varsha-raat (lord of the year); 

6. If the lord of the 7th house is in Ithasal with Vivah-saham 
(VS = Venus - Saturn + Lagna); or lords of Lagna and Vivah-saham 
are in Ithasal; 


1. Rao, K.N. et el, The Broad Timing of Marriage, The Astrological Magazine, June, 
November and December Issue, of I986 


106 


7. IfMars as a lord of the year is aspected by Venus or vice versa; or, 
if Vivah-Saham is aspected by Mars and Venus; and 


8. Ifthe lord ofthe 7th house becomes Munthesh or Varsha-raat (lord 
of the year) indicates marriage and happiness from all sides. 


Besides these laid down rules of the Tajik authors, I have observed 
in a number of cases, when I was doing Tajik during 70s’ that a well 
disposed Munthain 7th house of Varshakundali or 7th house of BCbecoming 
Lagna in Varshakundali and Muntha in 7th house has been found to be 
instrumental in marriage. This could be taken as rule (9). Since the main 
objective of this paper is to indicate the timing of marriage event as 
per Tajik rules, the analysis of progressed horoscopes deals with this 
aspect only. But the underlying assumption behind the Varshakundali 
(progressed horoscope) is that, it is derived from the basic natal chart. 
So for all the fruits during the year in Varshakundali cannot be realised 
unless, they are promised in the basic natal chart. What I intended to 
point out is that, ifthere is no yoga for marriage in the basic natal chart, 
making predictions about marriage will have no meaning. This precisely 
indicates that the basic natal chart should guarantee for any event to 
happen in the Varshakundali (progressed horoscope). 

Now coming to the timing of marriage event, some of the horoscopes 
of native have been taken and their Varshkundalis prepared in order to 
prove the validity of Tajik rules in timing the conjugal knot. 


Case 1 


The native was married on March 22, 1984 in the period of Mercury- 
Venus-Moon after completing the age of 26 years. An analysis of 
Varshakundali for 27th year reveals a strong marriage yoga as (a) Venus 
in 7th house is aspected by Saturn — the lord of Vivah-Saham (Rule 
6) and it is also in Ithasal with lord of Vivash-Saham, (b) Muntha in 
7th house is itself instrumental in marriage and getting friendly aspect 
of Saturn — lord of Vivah-Saham (Rule 9) (c) Saturn as lord of the 
year is aspecting Venus in 7th house. 


Case 2 


The native was married in May 1989 in the sub-sub-period of the 
Moon-Moon-Mars after completing 26th year. An observation of the 
Varshakundali reveals that (a) Venus as the lord of 7th house is aspected 
by Mars and it is also in conjunction with Jupiter (Rule 1 8& 7); (b) Venus 
as the lord of 7th house having Ithasal with Vivah-Saham (Rule 6); and 
(c) Muntha in Venus sign in 7th house is instrumental in marriage (Rule 
9) and it is also being aspected by the lord of Vivah-Saham. 


10 


~ 


Case 1 - Birth details : September 10, 1957; 00:31 hrs (Ishta Ghati 48-29); Delhi. 


Lagna 24°14! Mars 27°28' Venus 1°30' 
Sun 23°36' Mercury 23°38" Saturn 15°4' 
Moon 0°25' Jupiter 13°20" Rahu 18°44' 


27th Year : Sunday, September 11, 1983; 28 ghati 25 pala 42 vipala; Delhi. 


Lagna 2°55' Mars 23°59° Venus 0°18" 
Sun 29°46' Mercury 4°13' Saturn 7°52" 
Moon 14°40! Jupiter 10°10' Rahu 27°50' 


Mercury 


*VS © Vivah Saham (Marriage Saham) 


108 
Case 2 - Birth details: 


Lagna 2°57 
Sun 29°45' 
Moon 11°45" 


Saturn 
Ketu 


Chart 
July 16, 1989 


26th Year : Friday, July 


Lagna 6°3' 
Sun 2945' 
Moon 2°10' 


Jupiter 


Varshakundali 


27th year 


Monday, July 16, 1962; Farukhabad 
08:05 hrs (Ishta Ghati 6-37-36) 


Mars 11°32' Venus 10°17' 
Mercury 14°56' Saturn 15°33' 
Jupiter 1%3' Rahu 16°18 


Mercury 
Jupiter 


Mars 
Venus 


‘Z 
Lagna 


16, 1989 at 46 Ghati, 34 Pala, 18 Vipala 


Mars 7°2' Venus 21°52' 
Mercury 16°10' Saturn (R) 1°52' 
Jupiter 69" Rahu 3°41 


Sun Bx 


Vaan 


109 


Case 3 - Birth details : Wednesday, November 13, 1957; Lucknow 
07:20 hrs (Ishta Gahti 2-5). 


Lagna 5°40! Mars 9°29" Venus 14°10" 
Sun 27°7" Mercury 845° Saturn 20°32' 
Moon 3°26’ Jupiter 27°01’ Rahu 17°18" 


Mars Jupiter 
Rahu 


29th year : Wednesday, November 13, 1985 at 12 Ghati, 47 Pala, 36 Vipala 


Lagna 7°52! Mars 16°40' Venus 11°30! 
Sun 27°29 Mercury 19°45' Saturn 5°56 
Moon 15°15' Jupiter 16°7' Rahu 15°27" 


Varshakundali 


Lagna 29th year 
Jupiter 


Satur | Sun 
Mercury | Venus 
Moon | Ketu 


Nag 8 

Lagn a atum 

Jupiter re 
10 


110 


Case 3 


The native was married on December 5, 1985 in the 29th years in the 
period of Mercury-Mars-Venus. The sub-period of Venus started from 
November 25, 1985 and terminated on January 24, 1986. 

In Varshakundali (a) the lord of 7th house the Moon, is aspected 
by Jupiter the Muntha lord, which is in Ithasal with Vivah-Saham 
(Rule 6) (b) Vivah-Saham lord Jupiter is aspected by Mars. 


Case 4 


The native was married in February, 1984 in the period of Rahu- 
Mercury-Venus starting from September 20, 1983 terminated On 
March 2, 1984. In the Varshakundali the factors instrumental in tying 
the conjugal knot are (a) the lord of the 7th house Venus is in exchange 
with Vivah-Saham. Muntha in 7th house (Rule 9); and (c) lord of Lagna 
and Vivah-Saham being Mars gets an aspect of Jupiter (Rule 6). 


Case 5 


The nat: & was married in June, 1989 in the period of Saturn-Mercury- 
Rahu. The sub-sub-period of Rahu starting from February 28, 1989 
terminated on July 25, 1989. In the Varshakundali of the native for the 
26th year, the marriage producing effects are indicated by (a) lord of 
the 7th house Mercury which is with Muntha; (b) Venus is aspecting 
Mercury - the lord of 7th house; (c) Mars as lord of the year (Varshesh) 
is aspecting Venus and also being aspected by Venus (Rule 7); and (a) 
Venus is in Ithasal with Vivah-Saham lord Jupiter (R). 


Case 6 e 


The native was married on November 23, 1989 in the period of Ketu- 
Jupiter-Mercury starting from November 5, 1989 and terminating on 
February 22, 1989. In the Varshakundali for the 30th year, the marriage 
producing effects are indicated as (a) Venus amd Mars are aspecting 
Vivah-Saham and its Lord Jupiter (Rule 7) (b) Munthesh - Sun 
occupies the Venus sign of BC is well disposed in 11th house aspecting 
Lagna. It also became Rajayogakaraka as the native as was selected for 
Uttar Pradesh Provincial Civil Services. 


Case 7 


The native was married on November 23, 1989 in the dasha-bhukti of 
the Moon-Ketu which started on June 19, 1989 and terminated on 
January 19, 1990. In the Varshakundali (a) Venus is Varshesh (lord of 
the year) and it is aspecting lord of the 7th house and its also being 
aspected by Jupiter (Rule 1); (b) Lord of Lagna - Sun is in Ithasal with 


111 


Case 4 - Birth details : Thursday, March 22, 1951; Delhi 
19:33 Hrs (Ishta Gahti 32:45). 


Lagna 21°33" Mars 22°40' Venus 8°14" 
Sun 7°57' Mercury 18°54' Saturn 5°38" 
Moon 26°58' Jupiter 29°47' Rahu 25°54 


Saturn (R) 
Jupiter Case 4 6 


33rd Year: Tuesday, March 22, 1984 at 44 Ghati 59 Pala 24 Vipala 


Lagna 25°45' Mars 25°45" Venus 10°0' 
Sun 7°35' Mercury 3°15" Saturn (R) = 9°38" 
Moon 16°15" Jupiter 17°7' Rahu 15°14! 


DEX 


Jupiter Ketu ; 
8 


EK 


112 


Case 5 - Birth details : Saturday, October 19, 1963; Delhi 
02:55 hrs (Ishta-Ghati 50:00). 


Lagna 10°24 Mars 2°2' Venus 15°1' 
Sun 2°3' Mercury 20°29 Saturn 23°6' 
Moon 16°24' Jupiter 19°23' Rahu 21°10! 


Case 5 
Birth Chart 


Sun 
I ercury 
Jupiter 


Marriage Day 
Chart . 
June 12, 1989 


26th Year: Wednesday, October 19, 1988 at 14 Ghati 33 Pala 45 Vipala 


Lagna 28°48" Mars 16°25' Venus 19°51' 
Sun 204! Mercury 7°40' Saturn 19°40' 
Moon 9°5' Jupiter (R) 16°20' Rahu 271 


Varshakundali 


26th year 


Sun | Mercury 
Muntha 


113 


Case 6 — Birth details : Sunday, June 26, 1960; Gorakhpur 
23:20 hrs (Ishtha Ghati 45:27). 


Lagna 1°59" Mars 10°14" Venus 11°40’ 
Sun 11°14 Mercury 5°15" Saturn 22°40' 
Moon 10°58" Jupiter 4°44! Rahu 25°42' 


Jupiter (R)” 


Jupiter 
(R) 
Marriage Day 
Chart 


Nov. 23, 1989 


Saturn | Sun 
Venus {Mercury 


30th Year : Tuesday, June 27, 1989 at 14 Ghati 5 Pala 33 Vipala 


Lagna 11°25' Mars 12°45' Venus 3°10' 
Sun 11°1' Mercury 21°7' Saturn 17°20' 
Moon 14°40" Jupiter 28°55" Rahu 4°4! 


BK 


aN 


114 


Case 7 — Birth details : Sunday, September 24, 1961; Kanpur 
22:55 hrs (Ishta~Ghati 42:21). 


Lagna 3°11'53" Mars 1°21' Venus 9°15" 
Sun 7°39 Mercury 4°05 Saturn 29°55’ 
Moon 11°23 Jupiter 5°02 Rahu 3°29" 


10 
Jupiter (R) 
x Lagna x 
Jupiter (R) 


NOLEN 


29th Year : Sunday, September 24, 1989 at 53 Ghati 3 Pala 36 Vipala 


NY 


Lagna 1°23' Mars 9°25" Venus 20°15' 
Sun 7°48 Mercury 9°47" Saturn 13°45" 
Moon 10°45" Jupiter 15°21" Rahu 29°59" 


Varshakundali 


29th year 


115 


Case 8 - Birth details : Wednesday, May 12, 1943; Firozpur 
20:10 hrs (Ishta-Ghati 35:37). 


Lagna 9°41 Mars 25°30 Venus 737 
Sun 27°42' Mercury (R) 12°46’ Saturn 18°51' 
Moon 3°20" Jupiter 27°03" Rahu 27°30' 


Mercury . 

atu ee 
8 

oe Case 8 ea 


i | 


VSO aa 


24th year : Thursday, May 12, 1966 at 29 Ghati 8 Pala 51 Vipala 


Lagna 7°35" Mars 25°9' Venus "1494! 
Sun 27°42' Mercury 12°30' Saturn 3°13’ 
Moon 9°23! Jupiter 8°3' Rahu 5934! 


a ae 
Venus Jupiter 
Peat 


Varshakundali 


WENO 


25rd year 


V 
Lagna 
vs Muntha’ 
Rahu 


Lim S/S 


116 


Mercury-lord of Vivah-Saham and aspecting Vivah-Saham (Rule 6); 
and (c) lord of the 7th Saturn is aspecting 7th house. 


Case 8 


The native was married on 4th March 1967 in the period of Venus/ 
Mercury/Moon. The sub period of the Moon started on December 26, 
1986 and terminated on March 31, 1967. In the Varshakundali of the 
native for the 29th year, the planetary factors instrumental in marriage 
are (a) the lord of Lagna-Mars in birth-chart (BC) is well disposed in 
7th house (Rule 2); (b) 7th lord Mars is aspecting Jupiter-Lord of 
Vivah-Saham (Rule 7); and (c) Munthesh the exalted Venus is having 
friendly aspect of Saturn who unites the bride and bridegroom. 


Case 9 


The native was married on June 26, 1974 in the period of the Sun/ 
Mercury/Jupiter which started on June 21, 1974 and ended on August 1, 
1974. In Varshakundali of the native for the 38th year, the planets 
instrumental in marriage are (a) Venus in Taurus in 7th house aspected 
by Mars (Rule 1) and Venus apsecting Mars and (b) Venus as lord of 
the 7th house in Ithasal with the lord of Vivah-Saham. 


Case 10 


The native was married on 27th May, 1979 in 27th year in Venus- 
Saturn-Venus dasha operating from February 11, 1979 till August 21, 
1979. In Varshakuntali for the 27th year (a) the lord of Vivah-Saham 
(Rule 6); (b) lord of 7th Mars is getting an aspect of Jupiter (Rule 1); 
and (c) Muntha in 7th house is instrumental in marriage (Rule 9). 


Validity of Rules 


The foregoing analysis of 10 sample cases reveals the timing of marriage 
as per rules of Tajik Shashtra. Of the nine rules discussed for the timing 
of marriage, rule~6 (the lord of 7th house in Ithasal with Vivah-Saham 
(VS) or lord of Lagna in Ithasal with Vivah-Saham holds true in 8 cases, 
and thus, it provides 80 percent validity to the rule; while rule-4, (Mars 
as lord of the year aspected by Venus or vice versa or if Vivah-Saham 
is aspected by Mars and Venus) is true in 5 cases, and thus, it provides 
50 per cent validity to the rule. Rule-9 (Muntha in 7th house) and Rule- 
I (Venus in 7th house or as a lord of 6th being aspected by Jupiter) 
holds true in 4 cases, and thus it provides 40 per cent validity to the 
rule. Rule 2 and 8 have been found true only in one case each and thus 
it provides 10 per cent validity to the rules. 


117 


Case 9 - Birth details : Monday, June 25, 1945; Delhi 
10:20 hrs (Istha Ghati 14:57). 


Lagna 1°6'-34" Mars 16°55' Venus 24°26 
Sun 16°7' Mercury 20°50' Saturn 19°45" 
Moon 4°34" Jupiter 26°51' Rahu 16°3' 


Sw SE 


Jupiter 


Sun 
Venus | Mars Mer Sat 


Lagna 
Jupiter 


Moon 
6 


Lagna 
S 5 


38th Year : Tuesday, June 25, 1974 at 31 Ghati 2 Pala 33 Vipala 


Lagna | 22°44'17" Mars 16°5' Venus 5°10' 
Sun 10°27' Mercury (R) 17°20' Saturn 14°5' 
Moon 29°33" Jupiter 24°7' Rahu 25°50" 


3 
Mercury (R) 
Sun Saturn 


118 


Case 10 - Birth details : Thursday, June 26, 1952; Delhi 
Ishta Ghati 37:27. 


Lagna  26°33'27" Mars 9°40! Venus 12°56! 
Sun 11°23' Mercury 28°15' Saturn 15*12' 
Moon 24°23' Jupiter 20°11' Rahu 29°14! 


fee | 
Moon 
Case 10 


Eo 


Birth Chart 


27th Year : Monday, June 26, 1978 at 56 Ghati 56 Pala 42 Vipala 


Lagna 24°10" Mars 13°9' Venus 18°24" 
Sun 11°21" Mercury 25°25" Saturn 3°16" 
Moon 3°40’ Jupiter 21°8" Rahu 8°25' 


De NG 


Varshakundali 


27th year 


119 


Saturn and Jupiter in Timing Marriage 


So far, we have analysed, the timing of marriage as per dasha-bhukti 
and the rules of Tajik-Shastra. But no attempt was made to integrate 
the rule of Saturn and Jupiter in timing the event. It is, therefore, 
proposed to test the validity of rule advocated by Rao school of thought 
by applying to the samples taken. 

A careful analysis of all the 10 sample cases reveals that Saturn and 
Jupiter have been found instrumental in tying the conjugal knot in 
almost all the cases either by aspecting 7th house or its lord from Lagna 
barring one case in which Saturn was not aspecting 7th house (Case 4) 
but exalted Jupiter was having its 9th aspect. A look at different marriage 
day charts reveals 95 per cent validity of the principle. 

One interesting feature that emerges from the observation of all 
marriage-day Charts is that the Karaka of wife/husband, Venus, and 
the executor of marriage event, Mars, have been found either in 
conjunction (in four cases) or aspecting each other in marriage day 
charts. So has been the case with Saturn either being in conjunction 
with Venus (in three cases) or aspecting each other except in one case 
in which Saturn was found to be in-between Mars and Venus (in 
Case 8). 

A comparative analysis of the two ie. Tajik rules and Jupiter and 
Saturn in the timing of marriage event, the latter one is most simplistic 
in approach, while the former one requires a lot of calculation and is 
also cumbersome. It is a lengthy process. But the validity of rules 
propounded by Tajik authors have proved their significance in timing 
the marriage event. 


Role of Dashas in 
Marital Discord 


Shiv Raj Sharma 


Tye subject of this paper is the role of different dashas in marital 
discord. Marital discord must be distinguished from the modern day 
concept of living together. The discord that takes place after a marriage 
has been performed in socially accepted way, be it sacramental or legal, 
alone has to be defined as marital discord. 

Out of the four cases being discussed here two are of foreign women. 
The feed back given by them has been very useful for this research. Since 
all the four instances are of females this may be treated as a contribution 
to the study of female horoscope. 


Methodology 


1. The charts used are birth and Navamsha horoscopes. 


2. The main focus of attention is on the 7th and 8th houses from lagna, 
and their lords. 


3. Condition of Venus and the Moon in every horoscope gives valuable 
clues to the discord under study. 


4. Jaimini’s Darakaraka and Upapada are very helpful in revealing the 
secrets of a horoscope. 


5. The dashas used are three: Vimshottari, Jaimini's Chara dasha, and 
Yogini dasha. 


6. Wherever there are some exceptional or special rules they have been 
referred to. 


7. The overall assessment of the horoscope from the point of view of matri- 
monial happiness has been considered as the most important factor. 

First Ilustration 

This is of a Swiss lady. 


Features and Analysis 
1. Jupiter and Mars in lagna and the 7th house in the case of Karka 


121 


ascendant is, in classical astrology, a combination for absolute 
tension in married life and also lunacy. 


2. The Moon-Venus combination or opposition is generally not 
helpful for marriage. 


3. The above two special features, an exalted Mars in the 7th house 
and an exalted Saturn with the Sun, in the fourth house hardly show 
conjugal bliss in the domestic atmosphere. 


4. The Moon is between malefics; and the 7th lord from it, Venus, 
is retrograde. 

Navamsha 

In Navamsha both the 7th and 8th houses are afflicted by malefics. 

Jaimini 

From Darakaraka, Jupiter, Mars is in the 7th while from Upapada 


’ 
Birth details: October 30, 1954, 10:45 p.m., Basel (Switzerland). 


Lagna 9°46' Mars 12°54' Venns (R) 6°16' 
Sun 13°42' Mercury (R) 11°20° Saturn 18°16' 
Moon 28°52' Jupiter (DK) 6714' Rahn 14°15" 


Lagna 
Jupiter 
K) 


@' 


122 


B (Kumbha) the 7th house has aspects of the Sun, Saturn, Mars and 
retrograde Mercury, and the 2nd house has the aspects of Rahu-Ketu. 


Events and Timing 


Marriage took place in the Sun/Mars in Vimshottari dasha while in 
Chara dasha in Meena/Vrisha. From Meena, Darakaraka in the 5th 
house shows a love affair maturing into marriage in the sub-period of 
Vrisha which is aspected by Darakaraka. 

In Yogini dasha it was Bhramari (Mars)/Siddha (Venus). One 
(Mars) is in the 7th house while the other (Venus) is a natural 
Darakaraka for any horoscope. 

But after violent scenes at home in which the husband beat her up, 
now in the Moon/Rahu in Vimshottari they are preparing for a divorce. 
In Chara dasha it is Meena/Kumbha from where the Darakaraka is in 
the 6th house. In Yogini it is the dasha of Bhadrika (Mercury)/Dhanya 
(Jupiter). 


The Second Illustration 


This is the horoscope of a Swedish lady who is 1n the foreign service 
of her country. 


Features and Analysis 


The 7th lord Saturn is retrograde in the 3rd house and aspected by a 
Vargottama, exalted Sun. The 8th house has the aspect of Mars. 

From Darakaraka, Saturn is in the 7th, while from Upapada (Kanya) 
the 7th house has the double malefic aspects of Mars and Rahu on a 
deblitated Mercury. 

Venus is heavily afflicted. 

In Navamsha Mars is in the 7th aspecting 7th lord. 


Events and Timing 


Marriage took place on June 24, 1977 in the period of the Moon which 
aspects the 7th house, and the subperiod of Venus which is natural 
Darakaraka posited with the Darakaraka, the Sun, of birth chart. In 
Chara dasha marriage took place in Makara dasha from where Jupiter 
aspects both the 7th house and Makara. The sub-period was Simha 
aspected by Darakaraka, the Sun, and Venus. In Yogini it was Dhanya 
Jupiter)/Sankata (Rahu-Ketu). In Navamsha, Jupiter is with the 7th 
lord Mercury of Navamsha aspecting Ketu. 

The divorce took place (1983) in Mars/Mercury both of which get 
connected with the 8th house. In Chara dasha it was Meena/Mithuna, 
both heavily afflicted, the one involving the 8th house of rashi chart and 


123 


Birth details: April 14, 1954, 3:40 p.m., Halmstad (Sweden). 


Lagna 27*1! Mars 729" Venus 19°14 
Sun (OK) 0°52' Mercury 8°32' Saturn (R) 13*46' 
Moon 21°7' Jupiter 29°3' Rahu 26°2' 


Chart 2 
Apr. 14, 1954 


the 7th from Upapada, the other involving the 7th house of the 
Navamsha. In Yogini it was Bhadrika (Mercury)/Siddha (Venus), one 
in the 8th house and the other heavily afflicted. 


The Third Illustration 


This is the horoscope of an Indian girl who has been separated from 
her husband. 


Features and Analysis 

The 7th lord Venus is retrograde and with the Sun in the 5th house 

while the 8th lord Mars with Rahu is afflicted by the aspect of Saturn, 
From Upapada (Karka) there is no affliction to the 7th house but 

the 7th lord Saturn receives the aspect of Mars and Rahu-Ketu. 
From Darakaraka the 7th house is again not afflicted but the 8th 

house has the heaviest affliction of Saturn, Rahu, Ketu and Mars. 
In Navamsha the 7th house has unrelieved affliction. 


124 


Birth details; September 7, 1959, 8:30 p.m., New Delhi. 


Lagna 2°10' Mars TAT Venus (R) 11°5 
Sun 20°56 Mercury 9°34" Saturn 7°10 
Moon 20°27' Jupiter (DK) 2°16" Rahu 10°42 


8 
Jupiter (DK) 


Jupiter 
Venus 
Navamsha 


Sun 
Ketu 


Events and Timing 


In Vimshottari dasha the marriage took place in the dasha of Saturn/ 
Venus. (January 23, 1984). Venus is the 7th lord. 

In Chara dasha the marriage was in Simha/Kumbha. Simha has 
Venus (7th lord) aspecting the 7th house. Kumbha is 7th rashi from 
Simha. 

In Yogini it was Siddha (Venus) / Ulka (Saturn). Venus is the lord 
of the 7th-house. : 

Separation took place in June 1985 in Saturn/Sun. The Sun occupies 
the 7th house of Navamsha with Ketu, and is with the lord in the Sth 
house in the rashi chart. 

In Charadasha it was in Simha/Meena from where the 7th house is 
very heavily afflicted. 

In Yogini it was Sankata (Rahu/Ketu)-Sankata. In Navamsha, Rahu/ 
Ketu occupy the lagna and the 7th house axis. 


125 
The Fourth Illustration 


This is the horoscope of a Delhi women who has got separated from 
her husband within three years of her marriage. 


Features and Analysis 


The special features here is the Moon/Venus opposition generally 
disturbing married life. 

The 7th house has the aspect of retrograde Jupiter but the 7th lord 
is with Ketu very close in degree. 

The 8th house has Mars disturbing marriage again. 

From Upapada the 7th house involves Rahu-Ketu axis and has the 
aspect of retrograde Jupiter on Mercury. 

Darakaraka Venus has very heavy affliction of Saturn and the Sun. 

In Navamsha the 6th lord Venus is with the Sun in the 7th house 
aspected by Saturn, while the 8th house receives the aspect of Mars. 


Birth details: September 12, 1949, 1:42 p.m. Delhi. 


Lagna 4°35" Mars 9°5" Venus (DK) 42 
Sun 26°4' Mercury 22°24 Saturn 17°41' 
Moon 19°39' Jupiter (R) 29°16" Rahu 23°46' 


Chart 4 
Sept. 12, 1949 
1:42 p.m. 


Delhi 


126 


Events and Timing 


Marriage took place in the Moon/Venus. In Navamsha Venus is in the 
7th house while in birth horoscope 7th from the Moon. 

In Chara dasha marriage took place in Tula (containing Darakaraka) 
and sub-period of Kumbha aspected by Darakaraka which also aspects 
the 7th house from Kumbha. 

In Yogini it was in Mangala (Moon)/Ulka (Saturn). Saturn aspects 
the 7th house of Navamsha. “ 

Separation came in Mars (in the 8th house)-Rahu (aspected by the 
7th lord, Mercury). 

In Chara dasha it was Tula/Mesha both of which receive the aspect 
of Saturn-Sun. 

In Yogini it was Pingala (the Sun, in the 7th house in Navamsha) 
and Sankata (Rahu, which gets connected with the 7th lord of the 
lagna). 


Contrasting Study 


We have shown so far the points of discord in married life should be 
examined from the lagna, Navamsha, Upapada and Darakaraka. The 
houses on which and on whose lords attention must be rivetted are the 
7th and the 8th. 

If such afflictions are heavy and unfavourable dashas come quite early 
in marriage, the discord deepens quite often than not, resulting in 
separation or divorce, or the one leading to the other. 

As a contrast we will present four horoscopes of four ladies: two of 
earlier generation and two of recent generation. Their marriages 
survived despite their marital problems, including extra-marital alliance. 

Apply the same four cardinal tests from the lagna, Navamsha, 
Upapada and Darakaraka. In all the cases the worked out Vimshottari 
dasha and Chara dasha calculations have been given; the Darakaraka 
and the Upapada are marked in the horoscopes. 

The first horoscope (chart 5) belongs to a lady who got married in 
1942 and after forty six years of married life she died in 1988. 

The second (chart 6) belongs to an Indian Christian lady who got 
married in 194] and her marriage survives the fiftieth year in 1991 
though she has an incurable physical ailment. ; 

The third (chart 7) one belongs to a French lady who married in 1965 
and her marriage has entered the twenty-sixth year smoothly. 

The fourth (chart 8) one belongs to an Indian lady, a Hindu, who 
married a Christian in 1972 and her mariage has entered the nineteenth 
year. 


127 


Re 
8 
Lagna 
9 


Jupiter (R) 
8 
Lagna 
9 
U; 12 


Chart 5 
Apr. 16, 1924 


Mars 


Married in 1942 
Died in July 1988 


Jupiter 


Vimshottari Dasha 


D-M-Y 
Moon upto 4-9-1928 
Mars 4-9-1935 
Rahu 4-9-1953 
Jupiter 4-9-1969 
Saturn 4-9-1988 
Mercury Now running 


Married on May 10, 1941. 
The couple is alive and happy. 


Chara Dasha 

Kanya 1922-1923 
Tula upto 1934 
Vrischika N 1938 
Dhanu nm 1947 
Makara » 1951 
Kumbha " 1956 
Meena "1962 
Mesha " 1969 
Vrisha "1973 
Mithuna » 1975 
Karka "1977 
Simha ” 1989 
Kanya ” 1990 


Tula Now running 


Apr. 9, 1942 
A French Female 


Vimshottari Dasha 


Sun upto 
Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 


Married in 1965. 


D-M-Y 
16-5-1943 
16-5-1953 
16-5-1960 
16-5-1978 
16-5-1994 


Chara Dasha 

Karka upto 1948 
Mithuna "1957 
Vrisha " 1966 
Mesha "1967 
Meena "1977 
Kumbha ” 1986 
Makara "1994 


Y 
Lagna | Upa- | Jupiter 
Ketu } pada | Moon 


Vimshottari Dasha Chara Dasha 

D-M-Y Vrischika upto 1954 
Moon upto 6-10-1955 Tula "1960 
Mars 6-10-1962 Kanya "1966 
Rahu 6-10-1980 Simha "1970 
Jupiter-Venus 19-4-1991 Kbrka "1980 
ner ee ee MithUna "1989 


Love Marriege in 1972. Vrisha — : Now running 


Living Happily. 


131 


Unless, tension points exist in a marriage as shown in the earlier 
horoscopes and unfavourable dashas come, marriages survive whatever 
may be the tensions. This has been tested by us on hundreds of 
horoscopes and found working accurately in more than ninety percent 
cases, unless the husband's horoscope contains unremovable defects. 


Tabulation of tension points in the first four horoscopes 


We will now revert to the first four horoscopes of broken marriages and 
show in a tabulated way first the tension points and then how they burst 
into flames when unfavourable dashas came into their lives. 


First Horoscope 


the 7th house the 7th lord the 8th house the 8th lord 
From Lagna 
Has Mars Is with the Sun Is with the Sun 
and Mercury (R) and Mercury (R) 
From Darakaraka 
Same as above 
From Upapada 
Aspected by with Mercury (R) Aspected by With Sun 
Mars, Sun, Sat and Saturn Rahu, Ketu and Saturn 
and Mercury (R) 
From Navamsha 
Has Saturn with Rahu Has Mars Is Mars 
and Moon and Venus 
Dashas 


- Moon/Rahu; and Rahu in the 6th has taken the case to a court. (Vimshottari). 

- Meena/Kumbha. Darakaraka is in the 6th from Kumbha denoting quarrels. 
(Chara). 

- Bhadrika (Mercury), the 12th lord showing separation and Dhanya (Jupiter), 
the 6th lord showing litigation again (Yogini). 


Second Horoscope 


the 7th house the 7th lord the 8th house the 8th lord 
From Lagna 
Aspected by Is exalted Has debilitated —_Is Jupiter 
Moon. and retrograde Mercury 
aspected by aspected by 
exalted Mars. 
Darakaraka Sun, 


and Venus. 


132 


the 7th house the 7th lord 


From Darakaraka 
Has exalted With Darakaraka 
and retrograde Sun, aspected 


Saturn aspected — by Moon. 
by Jupiter and 
the Moon. 


From Upapada 


Has debilitated | Aspected by 
Mercury aspected Saturn (R) 


by Mars, Rahu, 
Ketu. 
From Navamsha 
Has Mars With Jup. 
and Venus 
aspected by Mars. 
Dashas 


the 8th house 


Aspected by 
Sun, Venus. 


Has Darakaraka 
Sun, Venus 
aspected by 
the Moon. 


the 8th lord 


With Rahu, 
aspected by 

Ketu and 
debilitated Mercury 


With Rahu 
aspected by 
debilitated Mercury 
and Ketu. * 


- Is aspected 


by the Sun. 


- Mars/Mercury. Mercury in the 8th is debilitated causing disturbance in marital 


happiness (Vimshottari). 


- Meena/Mithuna. Both heavily afflicted by Mars and Rahu/Ketu. Meena is the 
8th house from the lagna and 7th from Upapada (Chara). 


- Bhadrika (Mercury) in 8th is debilitated and Siddha (Venus) is afflicted (Yogini). 


Third Horoscope 
the 7th house the 7th lord 


From Lagna 
Has Moon Is retrograde 
with the Sun 
and Mercury 
From Darakaraka 
Aspected by Is retrograde 
the Moon. with the Sun and 
Mercury, aspected 
by the Moon. 
From Upapada 
Aspected by Sun, Aspected by 
Mercury Ven (R)_ Rahu, Mars, 
and Jupiter Ketu. 
From Navamsha 
Has Ketu, With Jupiter 


Sun aspected 
by Mars, Moon. 


the 8th house 


Has 12th lord 
Jupiter (Dara- 
karaka). 


Aspected by 
Saturn, Mars, 
Rahu, Ketu. 


Aspected by 
the Moon. 


the 8th lord 


With Rahu 
aspected by 
Saturn. 


With the Sun 
and Venus (R) 
aspected 

by the Moon. 


Aspected by 
Rahu, Mars, 
Ketu. 


Aspected by 
Saturn and 
Jupiter. 


133 


Dashas 


Saturn-Sun. Saturn is aspected by Mars from 6th house (litigation), and is with 
6th lord in the Navamsha. The Sun is with the 7th lord in rashi and in the 7th 
house in the Navamsha. 


Simha/Meena. Meena refers the 12th of birth horoscope and the 7th house from 
Meena is heavily afflicted (Chara). 


Sankata (Rahu-Ketu)/Sankata. Rahu in the 6th again shows litigation (Yogini). 


Fourth Horoscope 


the 7th house the 7th lord the 8th house the 8th lord 
From Lagna 
Aspected by With Ketu Has Mars, Aspected by 
Jupiter (R) Darakaraka Venus. 
From Darakaraka 
Has the Moon 1s Mars Aspected by Aspected 
aspected by Venus, Mars. by the Sun, Saturn. 
the Sun, Saturn. 
From Upapada 
Mer. with Ketu Same as in Has Venus Same as in the 
aspected by the 7th house aspected by 8th house. 
Rahu and the Sun, Saturn. 
Jupiter. 
From Navamsha 
Has Sun, Venus With Saturn Has Jupiter Same as 


aspected by Saturn. and the Moon aspected by Mars. in the 8th house 


Dashas 


Mars/Rahu. Mars in the 8th afflicting marital happiness. Rahu is aspected by 
the 7th lord Mercury (Vimshottari). 


Tula/Mesha. Tula has Darakaraka and both Tula and Mesha have the aspects 
of Saturn, and the Sun. (Chara). 


Pingla. (Sun), Sun in the 7th in Navamsha; and Sankata (Rahu) which gets 
connected with 7th lord of lagna (Yogini). 


CONCLUSIONS 


The importance of the 7th house and the 7th lord from the lagna and 
Navamsha are of primary importance together with the 8th house and 
the 8th lord as can be seen. 


From the Lagna 
(1) Case No. 1. 


Mars in the 7th is aspected by Darakaraka Jupiter and vice versa 
and it is the cause of deep mental anguish. The 7th lord who is 


134 


also the 8th lord (Saturn) is combust. Special notable point in this 
* case of Karaka lagna is the Mars-Jupiter opposition. 


(2) Case No. 2 
The 7th lord Saturn is retrograde and is aspected by Darakaraka, 
the Sun. The 8th house has debilitated Mercury aspected by Mars. 
(3) Case No. 3 
The 7th lord Venus is retrograde and also combust. In 8th there 
is Jupiter who is also Darakaraka. But as Bhagya lord in the 8th 
house he is unhelpful. 
(4) Case No. 4 
The 7th lord Mercury is with Ketu and that foo within 


approximately one degree which shows high affliction to the 7th 
lord. The 8th house has debilitated Mars, the 5th and 12th lord. 


From Navamsha 

Navamsha must be scrutinised in depth as is clear here. Again the 7th 

house, the 7th lord, the 8th house and the 8th lord must be seen. 

(1) Case No. 1 
Saturn, the 7th lord of natal chart is in the 7th house. 7th lord of 
Navamsha, Jupiter, is aspected by the Sun. It confirms affliction to 
the 7th lord and the 7th house. Jupiter's 9th aspect on Mars has 
saved the marriage so far though they are separated. 

(2) Case No. 2 
Mars is in the 7th house and aspects lagna lord Jupiter, and the 
7th lord Mercury. It is a case of affliction. 

(3) Case No. 3 
Ketu and the Sun are in the 7th house. The 7th lord is posited with 
the 12th lord in the 4th house. Navamsha lagna lord who is also 
the 8th lord in the 12th house is aspected by Saturn. 

(4) Case No. 4 
The Sun is in the 7th with: Venus, the Navamsha lagna lord. 
Saturn's 3rd aspect is one the 7th house. The Navamsha 8th lord, 
and the birth lord, Jupiter is in the 8th, and the 4th aspect of Mars 
on it is a case of affliction. 


Chara Dasha 


Jaimini's Darakaraka shifts into different houses when a rashi dasha 
changes. Marital discord can be seen in such a change. 


135 

(1) Case No. 1 

In antardasha of Kumbha, Darakaraka is in the 6th house. 
(2) Case No. 2 

In antardasha of Mithuna, the 7th house has Mars and Rahu, 
(3) Case No. 3 

In antardasha of Meena, the 7th house again has Mars and Rahu. 
(4) Case No. 4 

In antardasha of Mesha, Darakaraka in the 7th is aspected by ‘the 

Sun and Saturn. 
Yogini Dasha 


Yogini dasha must confirm what both Vimshottari and Chara dashas 
reveal. In the following we are discussing/comparing Vimshottari and 
Yogini dashas. Chara dasha is already explained in previous pages. 


(1) Case No. 1 
In Vimshottari dasha discord happened in Moon/Rahu. The 
Moon, the lagna lord, is in the 5th house with retrograde Venus. 
Rahu is in the 6th house of litigation. ? 


In Yogini dasha marital discord was seen in Bhadrika (Mercury)/ 
Dhanya (Jupiter); both are afflicted. 


(2) Case No. 2 


In Vimshottari dasha discord was seen in Mars/Mercury. Both 
afflict the 8th house. In Yogini dasha discord was in Bhadrika 
(Mercury)/Siddha (Venus) both of which are afflicted. 


(3) Case No. 3 
In Vimshottari dasha discord happened in Saturn/Sun; both 
afflicted in the Navamsha by the 8th lord, Mars. 
In Yogini dasha the discord was in Sankata (Rahu-Ketu)/Sankata 


(Rahu-Ketu). Sankata lord is with Mars in the house of litigation 
aspected by Saturn. 


(4) Case No.4 
In Vimshottari dasha it happened in Mars/Rahu. Mars in the 8th 
house is the 12th lord and Rahu-Ketu are with the 7th lord. 
In Yogini dasha discord was seen in Pingla (Sun)/Sankata (Rahu- 
Ketu); both are malefics. 


136 
OBSERVATIONS 


The same event must become visible through different dasha systems 
as observed hereunder. 


1. In Vimshottari dasha 

(1) Planets posited in the 6th and the 8th are enough to cause marital 
discord in their maha dashas or antar dashas e.g. 
Case No. 1 :Marital discord in Moon/Rahu. Rahu is in the 6th house. 
Case No. 2: Discord in Mars/Mercury. Mercury is in the 8th house. 


Case No. 3 : Discord in Saturn/Sun. Saturn is aspected by 8th lord 
of Mars in the 6th house, and Sun is with the 6th lord. 


Case No. 4 : Discord in Mars/Rahu. Mars is in the 8th house. 
(2) from Darakaraka it is generally the dasha of planets posited in the 
6th, the Sth or in the 12th house. 


Case No. 1 : Moon/Rahu. Rahu is in the 6th house from 
Darakaraka Jupiter. 


Case No. 2 : Mars/Mercury. Mercury is in the 12th house from 
Darakaraka the Sun. 


Case No. 3 : Saturn/Sun. Darakaraka Jupiter is itself in the 12th 
from Saturn. 


Case No. 4: Mars/Rahu. Rahu is in the 6th house from Darakaraka 
Venus. 
(3) Special Observation 


The seeds of discord originate in the mind represented by the 5th 
lord or a planet in the 5th house. This gets inflamed in periodsor 
sub-periods of planets in the 6th or the 8th house or their lords. 


Case 1 : Moon/Rahu. The Moon in the 5th house. 
Case 2 : Mars/Mercury. Mars in the 5th house. 


Case 3 : Saturn/Sun. The Sun is the 5th lord in the 5th house, with 
the 6th lord. 


Case 4 : Mars/Rahu. Mars the Sth lord is debilitated in the 8th 
house. 
2. In Chara dasha 


Marital discord was generally seen in the antardasha of the 6th, or 
the 8th or the 12th rashi from mahadasha rashi 


137 


Case | : Meena/Kumbha. Kumbha in the 12th from Meena. 

Case 2 : Meena/Mithuna: An exception here. 

Case 3 : Simha/Meena. Meena is the 8th from Simha. 

Case 4 : Tula/Mesha. Previous to Mesha it was antardasha of Meena, 

trouble was there at that time also. Meena is the 6th from Tula. 
3. From Upapada 


At the time of marital discord, it is generally the dasha of 2nd or 
6th house from Upapada. 


Jaimini gives primary importance to the 2nd house from Upapada. 
Case 1 : Meena/Kumbha. From Upapada Meena is the 2nd house. 
Case 2 : Meena/Mithuna: An exception again. 

Case 3 : Simha/Meena. Simha is the 2nd house from Upapada. 
Case 4 : Tula/Mesha. Mesha is the 2nd house from Upapada. 


4. In Yogini dasha 
Mahadasha and antardasha lords in the 12th house from each other 
either way is the cause of marriage discord. 


Case | : Bhadrika (Mercury)/Dhanya (Jupiter). Jupiter's 12th lord 
is Mercury. 


Case 2 : Bhadrika (Mercury)/Siddha (Venus). Mercury in the 12th 
from Venus. 

Case 3: Sankata (Rahu-Ketu)/Sankata (Rahu-Ketu). Rahu's 
dispositor Mercury in the 12th from Rahu. 


Case 4 : Pingala (Sun)/ Sankata (Rahu-Ketu). The Sun in the 12th 
from Ketu. 


5. Retrograde Planets 


It is further observed that whenever karakas of marriage of female 
or the 7th lord or the 8th lord become retrograde or aspect karaka 
or the 7th or the 12th lord they disturb marital life. A retrograde 
benefic is not helpful at all if also afflicted. 


Male Horoscopes 


As a contrast we are showing in a male horoscope all such afflictions 
but with a difference. Here is the horoscope of a male born on June 
16, 1936 (ref. chart 9). In this case — 


tu 


ap ine Venus 
ercury 
gna 2 

rs (DK) 


(1) The 7th house has heavy affliction but the 7th lord received the 
aspect of Saturn, Mercury and Venus. 


(2) In Navamsha, the 7th lord is with the Moon unafflicted while the 
7th house receives the aspect of Mars and the 8th house of Jupiter. 


(3) From Darakaraka (Mars) 7th house is again under heavy affliction. 
(4) From Upapada there are three benefics in 1/7 axis. 


Here is a lot of saving grace and all that happened in this case was 
that this native was attracted towards Sanyas as the Moon in rashi of 
Mars is aspected by Saturn. But his desire was to become a Sanskrit 
scholar after which he got handsome jobs. 

After 1970 Rahu mahadasha started. Rahu is in the 7th house, and 
in Rahu/Ketu or Rahu/Mercury he got married. 


Ref. Chart 10 (Male) 


This is a horoscope ofa male who get married in 1958 in the Venus/ 
Sun period. The Sun is the 7th lord of Navamsha. 

It will be seen that in this horoscope there is absolutely no affliction 
to the 7th and the 8th house in birth horoscope at all. In Navamsha 


Jupiter | Moon 


Y 
Navamsha 


7th lord, the Sun, is with Jupiter both aspecting the 8th house. Married 


in 1958, till 1991. To date, it is one of the happiest marriages with 
undreamt of conjugal felicity. 


Conclusion 


In all these ten cases one can see, through contrast, that the first four 
cases are cases of unmitigated marital discord. Next four are cases where 
marriage survived inspite of discord. And the last two cases of males 
are of exceedingly happy marriage, the first because of over delayed 
marriage, the second because of unblemished 7th and 8th houses. Even 
from Upapada their marriages are so happy. 


Marital disharmony 


Shunny Nigam 


Ce aad 

1 his is a technical astrological paper on marital disharmony which 
has manifested and led to estrangement, separation or divorce. In all 
these cases there was so much bitterness in conjugal relation that 
separation or divorce may have been a better remedy than reconciliation. 
In the changed time in which we live, marital disharmony is more often 
than not a common phenomenon. The reasons for this are obvious. 
In the days of early marriage and high female illiteracy (at the begining 
of this century female literacy in India was 0.5%; now it is touching 
40%) woman had no choice except to reconcile herself to her fate 
whatever may have been the torment in her married life. Even today 
in many parts of northern, India the birth details of a daughter are not 
noted down. 

But in the changed India of today marital incompatibility is the 
outcome of two of the many factors. The first is : girls are getting good 
education and are moving towards economic self dependence and, 
secondly, because of the late marriage, the modern girl will have 
developed her own ego at the time of her marriage. The male is well 
known for his ego, as it is. The modern marriage between educated boy 
and educated girl is marriage between two individuals both of whom 
have their developed ego. To expect them to adjust in their married life 
as in the past is to expect the impossible. 

The study of marital disharmony being done in this paper is the 
study of modern educated boys. and girls. The same point of tension 
in married life which three of four decades ago could not have led to 
separation or divorce becomes a provocative cause for divorce these 
days. 

In view of these changed circumtances the tallying of horoscopes will 
have to be done at three stages: 


1) Study of each individual horoscope to see points of tension in it 
for married life. 


141 


2) See the dasha scheme and find out when such disharmony can 
manifest. 


3) Now do the traditional tallying of horoscopes. What is being 
suggested here is that the tallying of horoscopes in traditional way 
should be the last step after the first two steps mentioned before 
have been gone through, 


In this paper 25 horoscopes have been taken and divided into the 
following three categories: 


1) Tension points in female horoscopes without any reference to their 
husbands' horoscopes as they are not available. 


2) Same method for male horoscopes without any reference to their 
wives horoscopes. 


3) Horoscope of couples in which a combined study of tension points 
is being done. 


Tension Points 


My friend Sh. Shiv Raj Sharma has given in his paper an indepth study 
of tension points corelated to Vimshottari, Chara and Yogini dashas. 
But in my paper no reference to dasa or timing of the event is being 
made. This study is cofined to the intensity of tension points in married 
life only. For this study the following well-known rules have been taken 
up. 


Rule A 


Jaimini Uppada and only the influence on the second house, not the 
7th house. Jaimini has taken the second house from Uppada for pointing 
out the quality of marital happiness. By Uppada here we mean the 12th 
lord from lagna and not the 2nd lord as some commentators on Jaimini 
have said. The majority view is in favour of taking the 12th lord for 
calculation of Uppada lagna. 


Rule B 


The seventh lord of lagna both in horoscope and in Navamsha. For 
instance for Arices lagna the 7th lord is Venus. How Venus is placed 
in Navamsha irrespective of the 7th lord of Navamsha is an important 
point of scrunity in this study. 


Rule C : 


Venus is a well-known natural Darakaraka be it for male or female, 
because Venus represents sex life which is not an unimportant aspect 


142 


of married life in earlier years of marriage. More often than not marriage 
may break because of sexual incompatibility between couples. It is, 
therefore, felt that Venus cannot be ignored at all. 

Rule D 

It is well-known in astrology that 6/8/12 houses and their lords create 
tension and various problems. In this study association of 6/8/12 lords 
with 7th lord or house has also been an important point of scrutiny; 
Supplementary Rules 


The other rules we are testing are being called supplementary as will 
be explained later. They are: 


1) Mutual 6/8 position (Shadashtaka) of lagna lord and 7th lord. 


2) Mutual position of Aroodha lagna and Darapada which according 
to classical text will be good if in 5/9 or 3/11 or 1/7, houses. 


Anexure 1. 


Tabulated analysis 


These rules have been applied to all 25 horoscopes and given in a 
tabulated way by dividing the enclosed chart into 2 parts: A & B. 


Part A 


It deals with the results of application of main rules and the percentage 
of the individual rules vertically and combined application horizontally. 


PartB - 


Similar scheme has been followed for part B. Then we have given the 
total of A 6c B and also the percentage. 


Annexure 2 


The case history of all the 25 horoscopes has been given briefly with 
reference to the sources from where these horoscopes have been taken. 


Annexure 3 


,All the 25 horoscopes have been given without degrees and birth details 
but since they have been taken from published material, interested 
readers may refer to the issues of Astrological Magazine concerned. 


Comments on the Table of Rules 


Main Rules 
A) The first rule we have applied is the second house from Upapada. 


143 


If there are natural malefics (Rahu/Ketu/Sat/Mars/Sun) they are 
disturbing married life as it is clear from 96% cases. The further 
question to be asked is what is the result if one malefic, two malefics 
or three malefics aspect second house from Uppada. This would be 
the subject of future research. 


Another question to be probed is what is the extent of disturbance 
when there is no planet is second house from Uppada but aspect of 
malefic only. Here we must stress the point that we are considering only 
Jaimini aspects. Another point of our research will have to be to examine 
the role of a benefic in the second house from Uppada, aspect of one 
or more than one malefic. Here again we have to consider how a 
retrograde benefic behaves. 


B) Out of these 25 horoscopes being discussed Navamshas of only 17 
are available. Here we are examining the Navamsha disposition of 
the seventh lord from lagna in rashi chart. In 64% cases it has 
become a potent factor for creating marital disharmony. 


Rule C 


This rule is for examining the condition of Venus in rashi chart only. 
In 64% cases it has again been the cause of disturbances. But we must 
admit here that we have not done indepth study of this, as again in 
Navamsha we will have to see the placement of Venus from lagna. 
Single, double or triple affliction of Venus should be noted to arrive 
at a sound conclusion. 


Rule D 


This rule, in the changed context of marriage of educated girls at 
advanced stage in modern times, must receive special attention. 
Association of 6/8/12th lord with 7th house/7th lord will show varying 
degree of affliction with changing nature also. For instance the seventh 
lord may be associated with sixth lord and also be afflicted or seventh 
lord may in similar position be aspected by benefics only. It is obvious 
that both cannot have the same meaning. One of them may lead to 
serious estrangement while other may lead to some misunderstanding 
or sickness. Here we got 84% results which is very significant as it is 
apparent that even slightest provocation can disturb marital relation 
these days. 


Composite Approach 


We are not suggesting anywhere that we should apply only one rule out 
of these and jump to conclusions. In any sound astrological prediction 


144 


a total indepth assesment of horoscope must be done, otherwise the 
results can be very misleading. Therefore all the four rules must be 
applied simultaneously and synthesised, without which the view taken 
by us can be lop-sided. We are not showing in any case through timings 
why and how these events took place. That has been done by my friend 
Shiv Raj Sharma in his paper and that method can be applied profitably 
to any case of marital tension. 


Supplementary Rules 


We have tested two very popular theories about problems in married 
life given in classical texts and also referred to by many astrologers. And 
the results on these 25 horoscopes are being shown here. 


Rule 1 


It is said that when lagna lord and 7th lord are in 6/8 position from 
each other (Shadashtaka) it creates bickerings in married life. In the 
absence of details about such bickerings it will not be possible for us 
to accept or reject this principle totally. It has been observed by many 
astrologers that when lagna lord and the seventh lord are in shadastaka 
it may not lead to such serious problems as separation/divorce unless 
other factors exist. Yet it has been seen that when they are in 6/8 position 
it does create some problems like sickness or an unavoidable separation 
of husband and wife forced by business/professional compulsions. In 
modern life with many persons with transferable jobs this combination 
perhaps is not so serious an affliction as to cause an alarm. It may only 
show qualitatively lesser happiness in married life. 

It may be for this reason that this supplementary rule has given only 
16% results. 


Rule 2 


One of the principles given in the Brihat Parashara Hora shastra has 
been adopted in Jaimini astrology for making predictions about conjugal 
happiness. Here the Aroodha lagna and Darapada (Aroodha of 7th 
house) are to be calculated and their mutual placement from each other 
examined. It is said that if they are in Kendra from each other or Trikona 
from each other or 3/11 from each other, they promote marital 
happiness. 

It is not clear whether in judging this their mutual aspects are 
required to be considered which we are not taking into consideration 
at all. We have examined only their mutual placement. Surprisingly the 
result is 0%. We will not comment about this at this stage till we go 


145 


Main Rules Supplementary Rules’ 
RuleA RuleB RuleC RuleD Total% Rulel Rule2 


A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 


Abbreviation Used : M-Male; F-Female; C-Couples. 
*-Navamsha Chart not available. 
A-Rule applicable. 
NA-Rule not applicable. 


146 


deeper into it as it seems to be a much more complex principle than 
what it appears to be on the surface. 


Summary 


To summarise we cannot help commenting that the first four rules, 
which we have called Main Rules, should be used for making prediction 
about marital disharmony. 

The two supplementary rules will need further investigation. 
Tentatively we are convinced that they are very sound rules (supplemen- 
tary) but are to be applied very differently. 


Justification for Statistical Method 


It must not be forgotten that traditional method of tallying a horoscope 
is a continuous and repetitive method obviously evolved out of centuries 
of observation on thousands of horoscopes. All that we are suggesting 
in this paper is to enlarge the ambit of statistical method. We will repeat 
what we said in the beginning that in modern context the horoscopes 
of boy and girl should be examined by applying the first four Main 
Rules and only after that tallying should be done. Many attacks on 
traditional method of tallying of horoscopes are not justified as they give 
correct results. Our view is that primarily every astrologer should 
examine each and every horoscope individually, and prospects of marital 
happiness in it. 


HISTORY OF NATIVES 


Hr. No.1 (p.683, AM., Sept. 1990): Horoscope No. | 8&2 are husband 
and wife. This couple fought but they made up. Husband beats his 
wife and wife also beats husband. Once he broke her finger bone 
and the wife broke his back. 


Hr. No.3 : (p.682, AM., Sept 1990): The native married in 1989. He 
is living together with wife under same roof but like hostile aliens. 
They do not talk with each other and are cooking their food 
separately. 


Hr. No 4: (p. 743, A.M., Sept 90): The native is an air hostess and married 
in Oct. 1979. Husband was unemployed at the time of marriage. 
He started garment business which gave him good profits. He then 
indulged into bad habits including womanising. He started living 
with another woman also. Age difference between the couple is 10 
yrs. She wants to reconcile and not to give a divorce. 


Ar. 


Ar. 


147 


No.5: (p.597, A.M.,July 90): Horoscope No.5 & 6 are of a couple. 
Husband left his wife and child after one year of marriage when 
he caught his wife red-handed with her lover. He desires divorce. 


No.7: (p.237, AM., Feb.91): The native drinks a lot and always 
quarrels with his wife who is a teacher. 


Hr. No. 8: (p. 895, AM., Nov. 89): Horoscope No. 8 & 9 are of couple. 


Ar. 


Girl was married in April 1986 and delivered a daughter in 1987. 
Right from the beginning there is a lack of harmony between the 
couple. 


No.10: (p.861, AM., Nov.90): Horoscope No.10 8c 11 are of a 
couple. Unhappy marriage ended in separation. 


Hr. No.12: (p.320, AM., March 90): Native was married in 1986. Ever 


Ar 


since her marriage she was ill-treated by her husband even physically 
also. In Oct. 1987 she delivered a daughter. After the birth of a 
baby, she left the husband's home and sought divorce. 


. No. 13: (p. 12-6, AM., Dec. 88): Native is a girl and her husband 


stayed only for 7 days after marriage and went away. Girl was 
harassed for dowry. She applied for divorce and got the same. Later 
she came to know that her husband had wife and a kid abroad. 


Hr. No.14: (p.12-67,A.M., Dec.88): He married in 1983. Since then his 


wife was saying that she was averse to conjugal life. After the death 
of newly born baby, wife decided to live with her parents. 


. No.5: (p.53, AM., Jun.91): He married in 1985. Wife was 


unfaithful. She left after 3 yrs. and filed a criminal proceeding 
against husband demanding Rs. 1 lac for divorce. 


Hr. No. 16: (p.533, A.M., JurO1): This native is a govt. employee. He 


has a son. The couple are not on talking terms, cook and eat 
separately, A male colleague of wife is also living and creating a rift 
between them. 


Hr. No. 17: (p.602, AM July 91): Hr. No.17 8c 18 are a couple. Wife 


came back to her parents’ house on account of mental immaturity. 
Husband filed a case for nullifying marriage. 


Hr, No.19: (p.528, AM Jun 90): Hr. No.19 8c20 are a couple. Mother- 


in-law's behaviour was not good. Husband also supports his 


‘mother. After she delivered a daughter, the mother-in-law become 


more rude to her. Girl is with her parents now. Husband is 
threatening for divorce. 


148 


Hr, No.21: (p.597, AM., Jul 89): Girl married on 1982. Harassed by 
in-laws. Came back to her parents in 1983. Gave birth to daughter 
on Oct. 1983. Got a divorce also. 


Hr. No.22: (p.595, AM., Jul 89): Horoscope of boy. Difference of 
Opinion between couple. They don't live as husband and wife at all. 


Hr. No.23: (p.526, AM., Jun 89): Girl got a divorce in 1981. She is 
suffering poverty and has an unruly 17 yrs. old son who causes her 
much annoyance. 


Hr. No.24: (Native is a Manager in Pvt. Co. He wants to reconcile with 
wife but she did not want any relation with boy's mother or relatives. 
Native has two daughters. Both husband 8c wife are living 
separately. 


Hr, No. 25: Girl is living with her parents. She is involved in litigation 
and got divorce from her husband who had some bad habits. Native 
has three sons; all are well settled. 


149 


NEw NO 


gna 


? 
y 


ae 


Moon Venus 
Jupiter 


Lagna 


Moon 
Venus 
Mars Mer.| Jupiter 


7 
| row js | [lag 
Sun 


Moon 
Jupiter 


Rah 
Male 
Ketu 


Moon 
Ketu 


Jupiter 
Chart 7 ®) 
Male 


Mercury 


Ye 
Lagna 
om 
Male Sun 
Mercury 


[me | |e 
Saturn 


ORD 


piter 
etu 


vn 
Mercury Jupiter 
Rahu 
7 
sem] few | 


Sun 
Venus 


Mercury 


fie | 


Chart 12 R) 
Female 
Rahu 
Saturn (R) V 
Jupiter (R) Lagna 
Moon 


Sun 
Moon 
Jupiter (R) 


Venus 

Jupiter Chart 13 

Mars Female ‘4 

Mer. Sat. Lagna 
Ketu 


Saturn (R) 


Jupiter (R) 9 


Male 7 
Lagna 
Moon | Jupiter Venus 
Saturn | Mercury Rahu 


OLN 


Venus Chart 16 


Rahu 
|p 


155 


eet 


“ ees 
il 

a iat a La 

Acie ee 


Kx 
tae 


gs 
a. 
a SS 
z g Zz 
A 
‘B) Fl 3 & 

love) a & Cy 
ne 4 = > X 


Jaimini Astrology and General 
Elections in India 


Y K Bansal Yogi’ 


Ciitrology is perhaps the most ancient science. The origin of Astrology- 
can easily be traced back to the origin of the mankind itself. Since time 
immemorial, the ancient sages, rishis and saints of India, by virtue of 
possessing the power of ‘Yoga’, perfected the science of Astrology and 
laid down innumerable systems and principles to decipher the planetary 
configurations and judge their cosmic influence on human as well as 
Mundane affairs. Sage Jaimini is one important link in the long chain 
of such saints, sages and Astrological savants. Jaimini developed and 
gave us a novel system which is unique in itself and is known as the 
Jaimini Astrology. 


The Jaimini astrology substantially differs from the most commonly 
used Parashari system, particularly in the matters of aspects, dashas and 
bhuktis, computation of Graha Bala, Rashi Bala, etc. At present the 
Jaimini astrology is not in much use in India, particularly more so in 
the Northern parts. Extensive research work on the principles of Jaimini 
astrology by applying these to the natal as well as mundane charts, with 
a view to developing and propagating this unique system of delineation 
of planetary influences, is now being encouraged. 

During Sept/Oct 1989, I tried to apply the principles of Jaimini 
astrology to the mundane affairs with reference to the General 
Elections, the year 1989 being an election year in India. In this 
connection my sincere and earnest thanks are due to Shri Y.N. Gupta, 
brother-in-law of Shri M.N. Kedar (Chairman, Delhi Chapter-I of 
1.C.A.S.), for his strenuous and painstaking efforts in compilation of the 
requisite dates/data from the report of General Elections published by 
the Election Commission of India. 

The planetary transits on the relevant dates were analysed, not only 
with reference to the Independence and the Republican charts of India 


This paper was presented in the Convocation-cum-Astrological Seminar held on 2-3 
Dec 1989 in Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan, New Delhi, attended by many delegates from 
different parts of India and was well appreciated. - Editor 


161 


but with reference to the Jaimini chara dasha and bhukti prevailing at 
the time of elections, for both the aforesaid charts. 


Parameters 


For the purpose of analysis, the parameters as follows were set forth as 
follows: 


(a) 10th House : Representing the Prime Minister, the party in 
power, the name and fame of the country. 


(b) 4th House : Representing the opposition in general. As 
the 4th house indicates the ‘home’ or the 
house to dwell in, it has been equated with the 
house of people ie. the Parliament. 


(c) Ist fie 8th Houses : Declaration of Elections generates highly 
feverish activities by all the parties contesting 
elections, due to which the nation presents a 
picture as if suffering from some type of fever 
which disturbs the normal calm and tranqui- 
lity of the nation. 


(d) 11th House : Represents new legislation, publication of 
notification for Elections, etc. 


(e) 6th House : Represents territory, competition, fight, etc. 
Each candidate fights the election within the 
territory of his constituency, and competes 
with other candidates to win the Election, etc. 


Observations 


The accepted practice and principle for any scientific research is to 
proceed from the ‘known’ to the 'unknown’. Accordingly the condition 
of the aforesaid six houses and their lords with reference to lagna rashi, 
dasha rashi and bhukti rashi in both the horoscopes i.e. the Inde- 
pendence as well as the Republican, was analysed for the eighth General 
Elections held in India since Independence, by applying the Jaimini 
aspects, Chara dasha, etc. The results observed were as follows: 


(a) In each of the eight Elections, the Rahu-Ketu axis has either been in 
moveable or fixed signs. It has never been in common or dual signs. 


(b) Similarly the planet Mars also was never in the common or dual 
sigh on the dates of Election/polling. 


(c) In 5 out of the past eight General Elections, at least one of the two 


162 


major planets i.e. the greatest benefactor Jupiter, or the natural 
Malefic, the Saturn was in retrograde motion. 


(d) In about 50% cases the natural malefic Saturn was afflicting the dual 
sign either by direct motion or by retrograde motion. 


(e) In about 85% cases, the aforesaid six houses and their lords were 
observed to be afflicted by natural malefics. This position was 
verified from lagna rashis of Independence & Republican horo- 
scopes of India as well as form the prevalent Chara dasha and bhukti 
rashis. 


On Sunday the 15th October 1989, when I was discussing the 
outcome of my analysis with Shri K.N. Rao at his residence, one political 
dignitary visited Mr. Rao and asked him "When do you think the 
elections will take place?" Shri K.N. Rao instead of replying to the 
question, pointed towards me and said "Mr. Bansal, is working on it, 
please ask him." When the visitor looked at me I replied as under: 


(a) The elections can now be declared at any time, it may be tomorrow 
or the day after. However, the notification for the elections is likely 
to be issued only after the Rahu-Ketu axis changes from Kumbha- 
Simha to Makara-Karka. 


(b) The elections are likely to be held during Nov. 1989 when Mars 
will be transiting the sign Libra. 


The above indications were given on Sunday the I5th Oct 89. The 
Election Commission announced the elections two days later i.e. on 
17th Oct '89. Rahu-Ketu changed the axis on 18th Oct 89 and the 
official notification for the elections was issued on 23rd Oct 89 ie. 5 
days after Rahu-Ketu changed the axis. The planet Mars entered the 
sign Libra on Oct 25th/26th midnight and remained there till Dec 9, 
1989. Elections were held form 22 to 26 Nov. 1989. 

While the research was still in progress, unfortunately I fell sick and, 
therefore, this paper could not be published in time. However, whatever 
principles were observed for the last 8 General Elections can now be 
applied retrospectively to the 9th and 10th General Elections. It will 
be seen that these principles do fully apply. Based on the above 
principles, Shri K.N. Rao had clearly written in Nov. 1989, about the 
"mid-term Polls" (10th General Elections) vide pages 8 & 9 of "Shri 
Vishwavijay Panchangam” of Pandit Hardeo Sharma Trivediji for the 
Vikram Samvat 2047 (1990-91 AD) stating as follows: 


“After the re-entry of Saturn into Makara and before the transit of 
Rahu from Kakara to Dhanu (April 12, 1991) the mid-term Polls 
are likely to be held." 


163 


The 9th Lok Sabha was dissolved and the process for the 
10th General Elections was set in motion by the President of India on 
14 March, 1991 which proved the accuracy of the aforesaid prediction. 

It may also the noted here that it was for the first time that Rahu 
was transiting a dual sign on the actual date of Ist phase of polling (20- 
5-91) thereby afflicting 8th house of the Independence chart and all the 
four Kendras of Republican chart. During the same period Mars was 
transiting in Karaka in the Sth house of Republican chart and aspecting 
the 10th house of the Independence chart. Afflicting in the 10th house 
of the Independence chart, it created the national tragedy (death of Rajiv 
Gandhi) which is a part of India's history now. Interestingly, being in 
the 5th house of the Republican horoscope (Mr. T.N. Sheshan's 
horoscope with Mr. K.N. Rao, also has Pisces lagna), it made a 
constitutional authority, the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC), a 
nationally controversial figure. 


Conclusions 


The conclusions flowing from this analysis are statistically valid as two 
predictions made on the basis of this research, the November 1989 elections 

by me and May-June 1991] elections by Shri K.N. Rao, have proved correct. 

Keeping in view the aforesaid principles, it would appear that next General 

Elections to the Parliament may be held after transit of Rahufrom Scorpio 

to Libra (around the middle of 1994) when Saturn will be transiting 

Kumbha. According to our principles, taking Jaimini aspects’, the Ist, 6th, 

4th and 10th houses of Independence horoscope of India will come under the 
malefic influence of Saturn, and Rahu-Ketu, 


Further observations 


More often than not, the elections to the Parliament have been caused 
when one of the two major planets (Saturn, Jupiter) was retrograde. 
Saturn was retrograde in 1977 and again in 1991. The 1991 retrograde 
Saturn was the cause of strange developments in Indian politics just as 
the 1977 elections were followed by the strange developments of 
Emergency. Therefore, the point for future research will have to be the 
role of retrograde Saturn during elections and the life of the Parliament 
elected during the period ofretrogression of Saturn. Instead of drawing 
any conclusions outright, it may be noted that just as retrograde Saturn 
gave us in 1977 a parliament which did not complete its term, will it 
be safe to make a similar prediction about the life of the Parliament 
constituted after 1991 elections? 


164 
INDEPENDENCE HOROSCOPE 


Graha Bala 


Planets Moola Trikona Amsha Kendra Total 
Bala Bala Bala 
Sun .f A 


Note : The strength of planest and honses, and the chara dasha calculation have been done 
according to Dr. B.V. Raman's Studies in Jaimini Astrology, and not as is currently being 
done, and reseearched on, in the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, New Delhi under the 
guidance of Mr. K.N. Rao. 


165 


Chara Dasha 
Independence Horoscope 


Independence 15-8-47 


Taurus 


Aries 15-10-47 
Pisces 15-12-47 
Aquarius 15-248 
Capricorn 15-4-48 
Sagittarius 15-648 
Scorpio 15-8-48 
Libra 15-10-48 
Virgo 15-12-48 
Leo 15-249 
Cancer 15-449 

15-649 

15-8-49 


Pisces 


154-53 
15-9-53 
15-2-54 
15-7-54 
15-12-54 


166 


REPUBLICAN HOROSCOPE 


Atma Karaka Saturn 
Amatya Karaka Mercury 


Bharatru Karaka Venus 
Matru Karaka Jupiter 
Putra Karaka Mars 
Gnathi Karaka Moon 
Dara Karaka Sun 


Graha Bala 
Planets Moola Trikona Amsha Kendra Total 
Bala Bala Bala 
ties 
Mars 
Mercury 
Jupiter 


Venus 
Saturn 


Rashi Bala 


Rashi Chara | Drishti Sthira | Lord's Relative 
(Signs) Bala Bala Bala | Strength Total —_ 


Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 


Capricorn 


Aquarius 


Pisces 


Note : See footnote to strength of planets & houses and calculation of chara dasha in 
relation to the Independence Horoscope. 


167 


Chara Dasha 
Republican Horoscope 


Dasha/ Doshal Dasha/ 
Bhukti Date } Bhukti Date | Bhukti Date 


Republic 26-1-50 | Cancer 26-9-63 26-9-78 
eee i 26-5-64 26-4-79 
26-1-65 26-11-79 

- 26-6-80 

Gemini 26-1-81 


Virgo 

Libra 26-10-81 

Scorpio 26-7-82 

Sagittarius 26-4-83 

Scorpio ittari Capricom 26-1-84 

Sagittarius pi Aquarius 26-10-84 

Capricom i Pisces 26-7-85 

Aquarius i Aries 26-4-86 

Pisces Taurus 26-1-87 

— Gemini 26-10-87 

Cancer 26-7-88 

oS eS | Te 26-4-89 

Taurus Cancer Virgo 26-1-90 

Gemini 26-11-52 |} ———————— |) $$ 
Cancer 264-53 | Gemini 264-71 
Leo 26-9-53 | Taurus 26-7-/1 
Virgo 26-2-54 | Aries 26-10-71 
Libra i 26-1-72 
Scorpio 26-12-54 | Aquarius 26-4-72 
Sagittarius 26-5-55 | Capricorn 26-7-72 
Capricorn 26-10-55 | Sagittarius 26-10-72 
Aquarius 26-3-56 | Scorpio 26-1-73 

Pisces 26-8-56 | Libra 26-4-73 26-10-91 

Aries 26-1-57 | Virgo 26-7-73 ini 26-1-92 

——_______—. 26-10-73 26-4-92 

Taurus 26-1-74 26-7-92 

26-10-92 

26-1-93 


26-1-59 | Virgo 26-8-74 

16-9-59 | Libra 26-3-75 | ———_—_______—__ 

26-5-60 | Scorpio 26-10-75 | Li 26-11-93 
26-5-76 | Vi 26-9-94 

26-9-61 | Capricom 26-12-76 26-7-95 

26-5-62 | Aquarius 26-7-17 26-5-96 
26-2-78 


Scorpio 


Independence Mercury 
Aug. 14/15, 1947] Ven Sat 
Midnight 


New Delhi 


Republican 
Jan. 26, 1950 


Nov. 1951 
Independence 
Pisces/Aries 
Republic 

Pisces/A 


n 
Jan, 1952 
Independence 
Pisces/Aries 
un Republic 
Pisces/Pisces 


$ 
pass 


—_ 
a 


Notificats 
Jan. 19-23, 1957 
Independence 
Aquarius/Pisces 
Republic 


Aries/Aries 


2ND ELECTIONS 


Independence 
Acquarius/Pisces 
Republic 
Taurus/Aries 


o Notificati 
Jan. 13, 1962 
= Independence 


Polling 
Feb. 19, 1962 
Independence cury 
Aquariu/Sag. 10 Ketu Jupiter 
Republic Saturn 


9 


Notification 
Jan. 13, 1967 
_| Independence 
Capricorn/Gemini 
Republic 


Gemini/Aquartus 


4TH ELECTIONS 


Saturn 
12 


Polling 
Feb. 15, 1967 


Independence 
Capricorn/Gemint 


Republic 
Gemini/Capricorn 


Notification 
Jan. 27, 1971 


Independence 
Sag./Libra 


Republic 


Cancer/Gemint 


Polling 
March 1, 1971 
Independence 

Sag/Libra 

Republic 
Cancer/Gemini 


Jupiter 


Feb. 10, 1977 
Independence 


Sag/Pisces 
Republic 
Leo/Agquarius 


Sun [Venus (R) Jupiter 
Mercury! Ketu P 
Polling 


Mars | March 16, 1977 ag 
Independence ) 
Sag/Aquarius 

Republic 
Leo/Aquarius 


6TH ELECTIONS 


Notificati 
Dec. 3, 1972 
Independence 
Scorpio/Libra 
Republic 
Leo/Cancer 


Polling 
Jan. 3, 1986 
Independence 


Scorpio/Libra 
Republic 
Lea/Cancer 


Notificas 
Nov. 20, 1984 
Independence 

| Scorpia/Capricorn 

Republic 
Virgo/Pisces 


Independence 
Scorpia/Capricorn 
Republic 
Virgo/Pisces 
Sun | Mercury 
Moon | Saturn 
Jupiter | Ketu 


Polling 
Nov. 22, 1989 
Independence 

Libra/Pisces ° 

Republic 

Virga/Virgo 


eo Yew an | 
Lok-Sabha Dessolved 


March 14, 1991 
Independence Jupiter (R) 


Libra/Taurus Ketu 
Republic 
Libra/Pisces 


Sun 
Mise Venus 


Notificat 
Apr. 13, 1991 
Independence 
Libra/Taurus 
Republic 
Libra/Pisces 


Polling 1st Phase 
May 20, 1991 


Independence 
Libra/Taurus 
Republic 
Libra/Aries 


10TH ELECTIONS 


Sun 
Mercury 
Moon (1) 


Independence Mars Jupiter 4 


Ltbra/Taurus Moon (ILI) 
Republic 
Libra/Aries 


174 


Analysis 
SI. Affliction Independence Chart Republican Chart Remarks 
No of Fom Fom Fom Kom Kom Fom 


Lagna Dasha Bhukti Lagna Dasha Bhukti 
Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi 


First General Election (January 1952) 


1 xX House °* * / / / ° Independence : 
Lord / ° / / / / Dasha-Rashi: 
2. IV House / ° / / / / Pisces 
lod f 4 f / 1 Bhukti-Rashi: 
3. 1 House ¥ / / / v / Aries 
Lord = / / / / / / 
Republi. : 
4. VIM House / . / joo. tae 
Lond 7 / / ¢ / / v Dasha-Rashi: 
Pisces 
5. XI House / v / / / / 
Lord / ° / / / / Bhukti-Rashi: 
6. VI House / / / / / / ae 
Lord = / v / v / / 


% 100 «6100-100 1H) 100—s«d1 


2nd General Election (February 25, 1957) 


1 XxX House / / x x / / Independence: 
Lord / x / / ! / Dasha Rashi: 
2. WV House / / Xx x / / Aquarius 
Lord / : i tp + of Bhukti-Rashi: 
301 House / / x x / / Pisces 
Lord = / / / / / x 
(Gas a, eas A a a Se 
Lord v / Vv / / xX Dasha-Rashi: 
Taurus 
5. Xl House X x / / x / 
Lord v / / / / Bhukti-Rashi: 
Aries 
6. VI House / / / x 
Lord / / / / x 


Analysis 


SL. 


3rd General Election (February 19, 1962) 


1. 


wr 


1 


ts 


3; 


House ¢ . x x / x 
lod / x ° / / xX 
House ¥ y x x / x 
Lord v . / x / / 
House '/ / x x v x 
Lod / / / / hx 
House x x y . x / 
Lod / / / ¥ / x 
House X x / - x / 
Lod = ¥ . / / ° / 
House % v / / é i 
Lod / / . / / / 
Total 10 9 9 8 10 6 
% 83.3 75 75 66.7 833 50 
4th General Election (February 15, 1967) 
House / / / / / / 
Lord / / / x x x 
House / / / / i / 
Lord / / / / / / 
House / xX / / / x 
Lord °° y ° x / / 
House / / x / x / 
Lod / / / x / x 
House / / / x ¥ / 
Lod / / / / wd 
House / / / ° / e 
Lord v / . ¥ / 
Totai Nn i 11 7 10 9 
uy 100 917 917) 583 833 = 675 


Affliction 
No of 


x 


IV 


VI 


V1 


x 


IV 


VII 


Independence Chart 
Fom Fom Fom 


Republican Chart 
Fon From Fron 
Lagna Dasha Bhukti Lagna Dasha Bhukti 


Remarks 


Independence : 
Dasha-Rashi: 
Aquarius 

Bhukti-Rashi: 


Sagittarius 


Republican: 
Dasha-Rashi: 
Taurus 
Bhukti-Rashi: 
Vigro 


Independence: 
Dasha Rashi: 
Capricorn 


Bhukti-Rashi: 
Gemini 


Republican: 
Dasha-Rashi: 


Gemini 


Bhukti-Rashi: 


.Capricorn 


176 


Analysis 
Sl. Affliction - Independence: Chart —_ Repnblican Chart Remarks 
No of From Kom From From From Fom 
Lagna Dasha Bhukti lLagna Dasha Bhukti 
Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi 
5th General Election (March 1, 1971) 
1. X House / x / x / x Independence : 
per é : f 7 : Dasha-Rashi: 
2. IV House / x : x / x Sagittarius 
Lord / : d Xf — X  Bhuxti-Rashi: 
ae | House / x v x / x Libra 
Lord / / / / / x 
4. VIII House X / / v / / pi, aR 
Lord / s v / / / Dasha-Rashi: 
Cancer 
5. XI House X / i / / / ‘ . 
Lord / / / / n x Bhukti-Rashi: 
Gemini 
6. VI House / t x / x / 
Lord / v . / i x 
Total 10 9 11 8 10 5 
% 83.30 75 91.70 66.6 83.30 417 
6th General Election (March 16, 1977) 
1. Xx House / / / . v / Independence: 
Lord / . / / x x / Dasha Rashi: 
2. IV House / / v / / / Sagittarius 
Lord / / / / / X — Bhukti-Rashi: 
ae | House / ° . / / / Aquarius 
Lord / / / x x / 
Republican: 
4. VIL House / / / : / v . 
Dasha-Rashi: 
Lord / : / x x v 
Leo 
v / . / / 
au x, -Houte i Bhukti-Rashi: 
Lord v / / / / Xx : 
Aquarius 
6. VI House / ® / / x v 
Lord ¥ / / x / / 


3 66.7 8330 


Analysis 


Sl. Affliction 
No of 


Rashi — Rashi 


I ndependence Chart 
Fom From Kom 
Lagna 


Republican Chart 


From From From 


Dasha Bhukti Lagna Dasha Bhukti 
Rashi Rashi Rashi 


Rashi 


7th General Election (January 3, 1980) 


s 


8th General Election (December 24, 1984) 


1. 


x 


IV 


VIII 


VI 


x 


. XI 


vi 


House 
Lord. 


House 
Lord 


House 
Lord 


House 
Lord 


House 
Lord 


House 
Lord 
Total 
% 


House 
Lord 
House 
Lord 
House 
Lord 


House 


Lord 


House 
Lord 


House 
Lord 


Total 
% 


/ 


i 


¢/ 


e 


~~ NS NS KO 


ll 


/ 


a 


ll 


v 


e 


91.70 91.70 91.70 100 


~~~ ~~ > 


il 


x 


~~~ ~~ ™ 


~~ 


/ 
/ 


ll 


a 


il 


a i 


10 


x / 
/ / 
x e 
/ if 
/ / 
/ v 
/ / 
/ / 
/ xX 
/ / 
/ Y 
/ / 
10 iB] 
8330 91.70 
/ / 
/ / 
/ / 
/ / 
/ / 
/ / 
/ e 
/ / 
v / 
v xX 
/ x 
xX / 
il 10 


91.70 91.70 91.70 83.30 91.70 83.30 


177 


Remarks 


Independence : 
Dasha-Rashi: 
Scorpio 
Bhukti-Rashi: 
Libra 


Republican : 
Dasha-Rashi: 
Leo 


Bhukti-Rashi: 
Cancer 


Independence: 
Dasha Rashi: 
Scorpio 
Bhukti-Rashi: 
Capricorn 


Republican: 
Dasha-Rashi: 
Virgo 
Bhukti-Rashi: 
Pisces 


178 


Analysis 
Sl. Affliction Independence Chart Republican Chart 
No of Fom Fom Hom Kom Fom Fom 


Lagna Dasha Bhukti Lagna Dasha Bhukti 
Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi Rashi 


9th General Election (November 22, 1989; 


1 xX House / / / / / / 
Lord / / / / / . 
2. IV House / / / / / / 
tea’ / / / yoo 
3. 4 House / / / v fs 
Lord / / / / / v 
4. Vill House / / / / / v 
Lord / / . v v / 
5. XI House / / ¥ / / 
Lord / / . v i / 
6. VI House / / v v ¥ 
Lord / + . / i 


10th General Election (June 12 & 15, 1991) 


5 eee 4 House ¥ . v ‘ v / 
Lord v y ¢ ¢ x v 
2. IV House “ / v ¢ 7 : 
Lord v Vv ¢ v é x 
3 «1 House / y . ¢ . x 
Lord / v v ca v / 
4° VIE House / ° v ¢ v / 
Lord / / ¥ y ¥v * 
3. XI House / / / v v v 
Lord / / / v a / 
6. VI House / / ¥ v y v 
Lord v ‘ v . v v 


Remarks 


Independence : 


Dasha-Rashi: 
Libra 


Bhukti-Rashi: 
Pisces 


Republican : 
Dasha-Rashi: 
Virgo 
Bhukti-Rashi: 
Virgo 


Independence: 
Dasha Rashi: 
Libra 

Bhukti- Rashi: 
Taurus 


Republican: 
Dasha-Rashi: 
Libia 
Bhukti-Rashi: 
Aries 


179 


Summary of Analysis 


Percent affliction by Natural Malefics to the six houses under 
consideration and their Lords 


Sl. General Independence Chart Republican Chart 
No. Elections from from from from from from 
of Lagna Dasha Bhukti Lagna Dasha _ Bhukti 


Rasi Rasi Rasj Rasi Rasi Rasi 


1. January '52 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 
2. February '57 83.3 75.0 75.0 66.6 83.3 66.6 
3. February '62 83.3 750 75.0 66.6 83.3 50.0 
4. February '67 100.0 917 91.7 58.3 83.3 75.0 
5. March 71 83.3 133 917 66.6 83.3 417 
6. March 77 100.0 100.0 100.0 58.3 66.7 83.3 
7. January '80 917 917 91.7 100.0 83.3 917 
8. December '84 917 917 917 83.3 91.7 83.3 
9. November'89 100.0 1000 1000 100.0 100.0 100.0 

10. May-June'91 —- 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 917 83.3 

Grand Total 933.3 9001 9168 7997 8666 774.9 

Average percent 

affliction 

(rounded. off) 93 90 92 80 87 V7 

Note: 


1, Only the date of polling has been considered here. 
2. In the Republican Horoscope the % age has varied between 77 8c 87 while in the 
Independence Horoscope it is between 90 (minimum) and 93 (maximum). 


3. 1fboth horoscopes are made use of, it may be possible to produce a clinching pointer 
to General Elections. 


4. Since on this research paper of Sept. 1989, two predictions have been made 
successfully already, this research may, it is hoped provide useful astrological 
methods of predicting General Elections. 


Kaal Sarpa Yoga 


Z Ansari 


Raat Sarpa Yoga has been both a subject of controversy among 
astrologers and a matter of fright for those as are told by astrologers 
that Kaal Sarpa Yoga in their horoscope has created the difficulties they 
have experienced in life. In the classical astrological literature available 
to us there is no mention of Kaal Sarpa Yoga which obviously came 
into existence and gained popularity among astrologers in later stages 
creating more often than not sinister meaning and implications. 

What is Kaal Sarpa Yoga? In brief before discussing Kaal Sarpa Yoga, 
it is necessary to know that when all planets are placed between Rahu 
and Ketu or Ketu and Rahu it is described as Kaal Sarpa Yoga. In other 
words, at the root of this Yoga are two shadowy planets- Rahu and Ketu. 

Existence of Rahu and Ketu has been accepted by modern and 
ancient astrologers of India for thousands of years as is evident from 
the fact that in predicting astronomically about eclipses, solar or lunar, 
Rahu-Ketu have been made use of by both ancient Indian astronomers 
and astrologers. It is evident from this that Rahu and Ketu have been 
given adequate importance in Indian astrology. Yet there has always 
been some controversy about their lordships and aspects. Though 
described as shadowy planets, it has been the experience of all astrologers 
that like other planets visible through the eye, Rahu and Ketu create 
distinct impressions on the life of men and nations. In fact, no astrologer 
in India will ever dare to exclude Rahu and Ketu in giving predictions 
or dare even to omit their dashas and antardashas in Vimshottari. In 
discussing Kaal Sarpa Yoga, therefore, it is necessary to talk about some 
preliminaries about Rahu and Ketu as is generally accepted and 
discussed though not without controversy by astrologers. The following 
facts will help readers understand this subject. 


1) According to some_ancient astrologers Rahu is exalted in Gemini 
and Ketu in Scorpio but some modern writers take Sagittarius as 
the exaltation sign of Ketu. 


181 


2) Our observation is that Rahu is more powerful in the first half of 
the zodiac (Arics to Virgo) while Ketu is powerful in the second 
half (Libra to Pisces). 


3) These shadowy planets are said to be powerful in common signs 
(Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces). From this a further 
inference can be seen. Our experience has been that Rahu is more 
powerful in the first half ofthe zodiac and Ketu in the second half. 
Rahu should be deemed to be more powerful in Gemini and Virgo 
while Ketu in Sagittarius and Pisces. 


4) Rahu is by nature dry and represents hilltops while Ketu represents 
evil and swamps. 


5) Rahu, it is our experience, is an extrovert, capable of conferring 
extra-ordinary power when favorable while Ketu is an introvert, 
capable of creating tremendous inner spiritual strength. 


6) It will be interesting for many people to know that Rahu, according 
to Ramanujacharya (Bhavartha Ratnakar) is responsible for creating 
opportunities for pilgrimages and sacred bath in the Ganga. 
Similarly Ketu is regarded as a Gyana Karaka planet opening the 
doors of Moksha, 


In brief since many of these points are known to astrologers, all that 
we want to suggest here is not to take Rahu and Ketu as either totally 
evil in an unqualified way or totally benefic again in an unquaEfied way. 
Within these parameters, the subject matter of this paper is being 
approached. 


Results 


Generally the results ascribed to Kaal Sarpa Yoga by astrologers have 
been on the gloomier side. It is said to nullify the most powerful Dhana 
Yoga rendering a rich man poor, giving him setbacks and reverses in 
life. To pin-point the area of reverse the Rahu-Ketu axis (to be referred 
to as RKA hereafter) in a particular horoscope becomes material for our 
consideration. Briefly it is: 


a) Ifit covers Ist and the 7th house, 2nd and the 8th house, 3rd and 
9th house, 4th and 10th house, 5th and 11th house and 6th and 
12th house, it will give different results depending upon all such 
other astrological factors as can modify this to the betterment or 
detriment of planetary promises. 


b) Kaal Sarpa Yoga has its bright shades also as it makes the native 
hard working though suffering from mental restlessness. If they are 


182 


c) 


a) 


favorable and cause some Raja Yoga it allows the native to attain 
high position in life. 

If the axis is between Rahu and Ketu, the accent is on rise in worldly 
life while if it is between Ketu and Rahu it leads to spiritual 
elevation. 


It has been found that people having Kaal Sarpa Yoga in their 
horoscopes are betrayed by the persons they trust. Through the 
sufferings so created they get inner strength and succeed in 
converting their curses into blessings. 


Notable points 


Before going into illustrations, readers should keep the following points 
in mind to follow the discussion. 


1) 


2) 


3) 


4) 


5) 


6) 


7) 


Except Moon and Mercury, all planets gain strength when they are 
in conjunction with Rahu and lose it when they are in cc <'zaction 
with Ketu. 


Saturn seems to be a very notable exception as its conjunction with 
Rahu and Ketu does not seem to affect it at all. 


When Ketu joins Jupiter it can lead to physical deformity, loss of 
finance and honour. The native may suffer due to diseases or 
accidents or major operations. 


Rahu's conjunction with Sun or any other planet except Moon and 
Mercury seems to enhance their good qualities. 


Ketu is not capable of destroying the results promised by Mercury 
and Moon. 


But interestingly it has also been observed that Rahu's conjunction 
with Mercury and Moon sometimes gives good results as Rahu 
seems to impart its good qualities to them. 


We should keep the following points in mind before deciding the 
nature of Kaal Sarpa Yoga. When planets fall between Rahu-Ketu 
and Ketu-Rahu in both cases this yoga should deem to exist but 
with the difference that Rahu-Ketu Yoga is more effective while 
Ketu-Rahu is less effective. It is our own conclusion and readers 
are requested to test it and send their response to us. Ifwe say the 
planets are falling between Rahu-Ketu, we mean according to the 
anticlockwise movement of Rahu. When we say they are faUing 
between Ketu and Rahu, it will mean according to the anti- 
clockwise movements of Ketu. 


183 


Results of Rahu-Ketu axis 
1/7 axis 


a) 


b) 


If the axis is 1/7 with Rahu in the ascendant and Ketu in the 7th, 
generally the native goes up in life showing rare courage while his/ 
her husband or wife develops inferiority complex. Ketu is associated 
with inferiority complex in astrology but their marriage life can 
deviate from the normal or be even troublesome. 


If Ketu is in ascendant and Rahu in the 7th, the reverse of what 
has been said happens in the married life. Apart from defective 
speech, there is generally lack of self-confidence. 


2/8 axis 


a) 


b) 


If Rahu is in the 2nd and Ketu in the 8th, such men create 
opportunities for themselves but earn money particularly if Dhana 
Karaka and Jupiter are favorable. 


If the reverse exists with the Ketu in the second house, there can 
be financial burdens, losses, destruction of health and wealth while 
Rahu in the 8th may give legacy from the side of the wife but 
without trouble. 


3/9 axis 


a) 


b) 


It is generally deemed very favorable if Rahu is in the 3rd house 
as it is Rajayoga Karaka and gives physical dynamism also but in 
this case Ketu will be in the 9th house which can affect longevity 
of the father. 


When Ketu is in the 3rd house and Rahu in the 9th, it can lead 
to an extra-ordinarily obstinate person sticking to his unorthodox 
belief and remains unyielding (see the horoscope of Morarji Desai 
Case No=8) 


4/10 axis 


a) 


b) 


When Rahu is in the 4th and Ketu in the 10th it generally gives 
longer life to mother unless other malefic combinations exist. Ketu 
in the 10th house gives aptitude for technical work and problems 
in career with failures and setbacks. 


If Ketu is in 4th and Rahu in tne IOth it may create domestic 
problems along with shorter life to mother but Rahu in the 
10th can attract one towards philanthropy like the upliftment 
of downtrodden classes. Gandhiji has Rahu in the 10th house. 


184 


Rahu in the 10th house also can create lot of opportunities for 
foreign travel but may lead to disturbed career if aspected by a 
malefic. 


S/T1 axis 


a) If Rahu is in the 5th house, it is good for a diplomatic career but 
ifother mitigating circumstances do not exist, it can block fortune 
through children. Ketu in the 11th can give flirtatious tendencies 
in the case of a female and philandering in the case of a male. A 
strong planetary protection can save the situation. 


6/12 axis 

a) The most mysterious and neglected study in astrology is the 6/12 
axis of Rahu and Ketu. While 6th Rahu is good for promoting 
longevity, it is rarely good for happy married Efe if other 
combinations exist for such unhappiness. (See Mrs. Indira Gandhi's 
horoscope). It gives spiritual incEnations. 


b) If Ketu is in the 6th and Rahu in the 12th, such people can get 
insulted by their cousins or maternal relations but can give 
tremendous Rajayoga. A person may come back into public life after 
a long period of eclipse (see the horoscope of an important Indian 
politician). 


CAUTION 


What has been given in this paper is not meant to be an exhaustive 
technique of predictions but only for providing guideEnes based on our 
experience and our discussions with many astrologers. It will generally 
be seen that when Ketu becomes effective, secret enemies, plots, diseases 
can create hurdles while when Rahu becomes active such problems 
acquire in bad cases, schizophrenic proportions. 

From the point of view of our study, we have found that Rahu in 
the 5th house being a trikona has generally proved excellent both for 
high assignments and monetary gains but such gains could not be 
retained long. 

Maharishi Parashara has mentioned that towards the end of the Rahu 
Dasha, there can be loss of fortune. But if such Rahu is aspected by 
Jupiter, the situation can be saved to some extent. 

Very few people know that Rahu is associated with very famous yoga 
known as Ashta-Lakshmi yoga. This is caused when Rahu is in the 6th 
either from the lagna or the Moon or both and is aspected by Jupiter 


185 


(See the horoscope of V.P. Singh) but it is also our experience that 
Ashta-Lakshmi yoga does not give results throughout life like Vasumati 
yoga. It becomes operative only in the main and sub-periods of Rahu. 
(Please invariably remember that if the Rahu's or Ketu's degrees are 
more than those of other planets’ in the same rashi, then only other 
planets are said to be entering into the mouth of Rahu or Ketu). 


Case No. 1 


In this case it has been noticed that all planets fall between Rahu and 
Ketu involving 1/7 axis. Rahu is moving towards the Moon, the Sth 
lord. Her marriage has been disastrous. She had one miscarriage; two 
children, born prematurely, died. She became widow in the 12th year 
of her marriage. She is employed but is being sexually hurt by her 
employer. -° 


Case No. 2 


Here Ketu is proceeding to swallow the lagna, Saturn and Mars. She 
is unmarried, has health problems (Mars), property dispute (Saturn) and 
is highly irritable and never able to adjust with anyone in Efe. She is 
otherwise very successful in her career and she is brilliant both in writing 


Ya . 
Jupiter 
Lagna Saturn 
Ketu (R) 
Venus 
Example 1 
Female Mercury 
Mars 
Sun 


Moon 


Rahu 


Ketu 


Sun Mercury 
Moon L 
9 a 
Mars Saturn 


A, > 
Mercury 
Moon {Sat Keru 


186 


and speaking. It is well explained by the fact that Jupiter in the 5th house 
and exalted in Navamsha is neutralising the evil effects of Saturn, Mars 
and Ketu through 9th aspect. 


Case No. 3 


Here Ketu is advancing towards Venus and then the lagna and has no 
relief from Jupiter. Without going into other details, let it be stated here 
that this man had scandalous affairs and marriage was opposed by 
parents. He had two children. In 1988, an astrologer warned the mother 
of the boy that the marriage was going to break. He sought divorce. 


Case No. 4 


Here neither the Moon is totaEy gobbled up by Rahu in the lagna nor 
Saturn and Venus by Ketu in the 7th house, yet the effect of Chandra- 
Chandal, Shukra-Chandal and Shani-Chandal yoga manifested fully 30 
years after marriage. First when Rahu-Ketu transited in Taurus and 
Scorpio and later on when Saturn transited in Scorpio in 1985-86, he 
was advised by an astrologer to keep away from his wife as a major 
scandal had already developed involving his wife. 


Jupiter Sun 
Mars Lagna 


Venus Ketu 


YEN 


= Lagna . 
Moon Rahu 
2 


Example 3 
Male 


DK 


187 


Saturn 


7 
| [eam | te | to 


Example 5 


Mercury 


Ketu | J¥piter | vroon | Venus 

Saturn Sun 

ed Example 6 | Mars 
Male 4 

Lagna 


Case No. 5 


Here axis is between Ketu and Rahu representing money and domestic 
burden caused by unmarried younger brothers and sisters in which wife's 
cooperation has existed as two benefics are present in the 7th house. 
Besides, the natural Dhana Karaka, Jupiter aspecting the 3rd house and 
the 4th lord has helped him overcome obstacles after obstacles after not 
having the benefit of inherited property besides property made out of 
his own earnings. 


Case No. 6 


Here all the planets are between Rahu and Ketu and the 2nd lord is 
with debilitated 9th and 4th lord in the 12th house while the 7th lord 
» 1s also debilitated in 9th house. Inspite of earning good fortune, the 
native suffered in his financial fortune for two reasons. His wife's family 
members created financial burdens on him and he suddenly lost his 
fortune in the period when Rahu entered Pisces recently. He is yet to 
recover his fortune particularly when Saturn is transiting the 5th house 
from lagna. 


188 


Case No. 7 


This is a case of classical Kaal Sarpa Yoga when all planets are between 
Rahu and Ketu. After ;a terrible struggle very early in life she had to 
accept ajob. She was posted in a backward place. There she was bitten 
by snake. Her life was’saved but an ineffective medicine left a part of 
her body black. She is unmarried and has been struggling through her 
career, stage by stage. 


Case No. 8 


Except the lagna and Jupiter, aU other planets fall within Rahu-Ketu. 
Interestingly both luminaries fall in Rahu-Ketu axis involving fixed 
rashis. Along with his undiluted ideaEsm he was known for his 
extraordinary mastery over details of general and financial administra- 
tion. In his long’ span of career if he fell from power he also rose with 
brilliant resilience. (Morarji) 


Case No. 9 


Shri V.P. Singh was adopted in rich family early in his childhood 
because he was born in Rahu Dasha. There is a classical Ashta-Lakshmi 
Yoga in the horoscope. 


Mars 
Venus 
Mercury 


189 


Case No. 10 


Here the axis is between Ketu and Rahu and a classical Mala Yoga is 
found in a horoscope of emperors. But after imprisonment for 19 years, 
he became the Prime Minister — when he was nearing 60 years of age. 
Saturn in the 9th from Jupiter who is conjoined with Ketu gave him 
a daughter (Indira Gandhi) and a still born son. 


Case No. 11 


Except the Moon, aE planets fall between Ketu-Rahu axis, He was in 


xin x) 


Jupiter 


Example 11 


Male 


se [se 


190 


wilderness for nearly two decades but as soon as Ketu dasha started he 
tose very high but developed mysterious diseases. 


Summary and Conclusions 


1. Rahu and Ketu should not be treated as pure malefics if they are 
aspected by benefics particularly Jupiter. 


2. If Rahu-Ketu receive the aspects of the lord of the rashis they are 
posited in, generaEy those houses prosper. 


3. Ifthe dispositors of Rahu and Ketu are well placed and strong as 
in the case of Shri V.P. Singh whose Rahu is in Pisces and whose 
dispositor Jupiter is Vargottama and exalted in Karka, Rahu can 
become an extraordinary benefic. 


These are some of our observations and we request the readers to 
test them on the horoscopes they have and communicate their findings 
to us for continuing and modifying this research further. 


Disease : Its Onset and Outcome 
Dr K § Charak 


1 
INTRODUCTION 


Medical science of today generally encounters disease in a passive 
manner. Usually it is the patient or his relative who first perceives 
something amiss and approaches a medical practitioner for help. The 
medical man himself has few, if any, means at his disposal to find out 
before-hand the nature and the likely time of occurrence of a future 
illness. It would be interesting as much as useful to be able to correctly 
forecast a medical ailment before it actually befalls an individual. 

The claims of astrology in regard to forecasting events remain largely 
unexplored where medical ailments are concerned. Since Indian 
astrology bases its inferences on the correct time of birth of an 
individual, it should be possible to anticipate a future iEness even at the 
time of birth, or at least several years before its onset. As a medical 
scientist I find it fascinating and highly revealing to be able to justify 
the occurrence of an illness precisely as indicated by the planetary 
configuration at birth. 

In the foEowing pages an attempt will be made to justify the time 
of occurrence of a disease and its eventual outcome, in ten selected cases, 
on the basis of some simple astrological principles. The Vimshottari 
dasha of Parashara and the Chara dasha of Jaimini would both be 
employed to time the same ailment by two different systems. This would 
subject the claims of astrological validity to a wider scientific scrutiny 
in regard to the timing and the outcome of disease. 


THE RELEVANT ASTROLOGICAL PRINCIPLES* 


The uniqueness of our system of astrology lies in its ability to time events by 
the use of dashas or operational periods allotted to different planets or Rashis. 


* Please read the Relevant Astrological Principles two or three times. -Editor 


192 


The most common dasha system employed is the Vimshottari dasha of 
Parashara. Some people who practise the lesser known Jaimini system employ 
the Chara dasha. Both these systems may be suitably compared in a scientific 
study. 


1. Vimshottari Dasha of Parashara 


(A) In order that the timing of an event is done as correctly as 
possible, without losing accuracy at the same time, it is desirable 
that the Vimshottari dasha be calculated from Mahadasha 
(MD) through Antardasha (AD) upto Praty antardasha (PD). 


(B) A disease as commonly understood is an affliction of the body. 
In the natal chart, the body is represented by lagna. The great 
sage Parashara has mentioned various maraka (death-inflict- 
ing) and malefic (generally adverse) planets for each lagna. It 
is logical to assume that the dasha of a planet adverse to a 
particular lagna would tend to adversely affect the body of the 
individual, in other words leading to proneness to disease. Thus 
the MD, AD and PD ofthe malefics/marakas, as described by 
Parashara for a given lagna, are the periods to be watched in 
regard to health. 


(C) The lagna and lagna lord represent the body. The adverse 
influence, therefore, would be more pronounced if the lords of 
MD, Ad and PD are in any way connected with the lagna or 
the lagna lord. This should be further so if, at the same time, 
malefics afflict the lagna, lagna lord and the lords of MD, AD 
and PD. The affliction gets aggravated as the dasha lords or 
the lagna lord have some link with the Trik (6, 8, 12) lords 
or Trik houses. 


Benefic influences tend to neutralise the adverse effects and 
provide protection to the native. ‘ 


(D) Rahu-Ketu axis (RKA) on dasha lords is an adverse factor. 


(E) A less well appreciated area is the location of a planet at a 
particularly adverse degree in a given sign. Such a planet is 
considered in what is called as Mrityu Bhaga (MB). Planets in 
MB when involved with dasha lords tend to affect the health 
adversely. 


(F) Benefics in kendras have been extolled in the texts and their 
role, protective or otherwise, must be considered when timing 
the occurrence of an ailment. 


193 


II. Chara Dasha of Jaimini 
In Chara dasha, the Mahadasha (MD) and Antardasha (AD) are usually 
calculated. The periods of ill health usually coincide with : 
(a) 6th, 8th or 12th rashi dasha.from lagna or Atma Karaka (AK). 
(b) The dasha of 6th or 8th rashi from the Sun or Venus. 
(c) Dasha of rashi in the 4th house (Trikona of 8th house !) 
(d) 8th rashi dasha from lagna Navamsha or AK Navamsha. 
(e) MD/AD in 6/8 relationship. 
(0 MD and AD rashis falling under malefic influences. 


MATERIAL AND METHODS 


Ten horoscopes of patients with known medical history are being 
presented. All calculations have been based on the Chitrapakasha 
ayanamsa (Lahiri's). Both Vimshottari and Chara dashas have been 
calculated for the relevant periods of illness, treatment and the final 
outcome. In each horoscope, three : charts (Rashi, Navamsha, 
Dwadashamsha) and two dashas (Virrishottari, Chara) have been 
employed for analysis. Since the aim is to time the event of ill health, 
no attempt has been made to justify the diagnosis of disease, which has 
been provided only for reader's interest and information. The various 
aspects considered in the analysis are described below. 


Vimshottari Dasha 


1. Whether anyone, or more of the operative MD, AD or PD are 
malefic or otherwise to the lagna concerned. Rahu has been treated 
as Saturn (and Ketu as Mars!) and as lord of the sign in which it 
is posited. Thus, for example, Saturn being a Yogakaraka for Taurus 
lagna, the dasha of Rahu has not been considered as a malefic dasha 
for this lagna. 


2 Whether the dasha lords have any relation with lagna or lagna lord. 
The points considered herein are : 


(i) Dasha of planet in lagna. 

(ii) Dasha of planet aspecting lagna. 

(iii) Dasha of lagna lord.. 

(iv) Dasha of planet posited with lagna lord. 
(v) Dasha of planet aspecting lagna lord. 


194 


10. 


Whether there is any malefic influence (by conjunction, aspect, etc.) 
on lagna, lagna lord and dasha lords. Also whether these planets 
have any relation with Trik houses/Trik lords, or whether any of 
them is combust. 


Planets in MB according to Sh. K.N. Rao's tables. The points 
considered herein are : 


(i) Dasha of planet in MB. 
(ii) Dasha of planet aspecting a planet in MB. 
(iii) Dasha of planet aspected by or conjunct with a planet in MB. 


Whether any dasha lord has been placed in Rahu-Ketu axis. This 
aspect has been considered in Navamsha and Dwadashamsha charts 
too. 


Navamsha and Dwadashamsha charts have been considered in 
regard to : 


(@) Ownership, by a dasha lord, of lagna or the house occupied by 
the lagna lord. 


(ii) Placement of dasha lords in relation to lagna/lagna lord. 
(iii) Aspects of Mars, Saturn and Jupiter on dasha lords. 

(iv) Placement of any one or more of dasha lords in Rahu-Ketu axis. 
(v) Relation of lagna lord and dasha lords with any planet in MB. 


(vi) Occupation/aspect of natal lagna rashi in divisional chart, by 
dasha lords. 


Protective influence on the lagna : benefics in kendras and 
protection provided by them when they are related to dasha lords 
and when they are not related to dasha lords. 


Retrograde benefics in kendras, when they happen to be related to 
dasha lords. 


The subsequent dasha : The dasha subsequent to a disease 
producing dasha has also been analysed with a view to find out 
whether or not a benefic subsequent dasha leads to improvement 
and cure, and whether or not a malefic subsequent dasha leads to 
complications and/or death. 


Severity of disease : This has been assessed according to the extent 
of affliction to the dasha lords, lagna and lagna lord. 


195 


Chara Dasha 


The MD and AD have been calculated for the relevant periods of 
ailment, treatment and its outcome. The charts have been analysed with 
the following factors in view : 


1. Dashas of 6th, 8th and 12th rashis from the lagna, AK, the Sun 
and Venus. 


Dasha of rashi in the 4th house. 
6/8 relationship of MD and AD. 


Eighth rashi dasha from lagna Navamsha or AK Navamsha. 


Malefic influence on MD and AD, especially that of the Rahu-Ketu 
axis (or aspect), Mars and Saturn. Also considered is the balancing 
influence, by aspect or conjunction, of Jupiter. The aspects 
considered here are the Jaimini aspects. 


6. Dasha of rashi inhabited by a planet in MB. 


OBSERVATIONS 
Case I 


This is a case of acute leukemia (a form of blood cancer) who died of 
the disease on 7.2.89, within six months of its detection. The patient 
had Kanya lagna. Rahu-Mercury-Jupiter operated from Oct. 24, 1988 
to Feb. 27, 1989. The Chara dasha was Dhanu-Karka, from July 1988 
to June 1989. 


A. Vimshottari 


The MD, AD and PD are aU malefic, and are related by position/aspect 
to the lagna as well as lagna lord. The lagna and lagna lord are subject 
to the foEowing obvious afflictions : 


(i) Lagna inhabited by malefics Rahu, Venus (a maraka) and the 
Moon. 


(ii) Aspect of Saturn on lagna. 


(iii) Combust, retrograde lagna lord (AD) in the 3rd with a combust 
8th lord (Mars) and a combust, malefic Jupiter (PD). 


(iv) Neecha maraka (Venus) in lagna. 


The three dasha lords too are under varying malefic influences (of 
Saturn, Mars, Sun). 


196 


Birth details: November 26, 1959, 3.00 a.m. GST), Bombay. 


Lagna 14°40' Mars 1°9' Venus 
Sun 9°34 Mercury (R) 6°10" Saturn 
Moon 5°12' Jupiter 17°21' Rahu 


Balance: Sun-2y 1m 26d 


Nov. 26, 1959 


3:00 a.m. (IST) 


: Sun Mars 
Saturn |Mercary(R) 
Jupiter 


‘ Sun 
oe] | |B 
| seme re 
Ye 


Lagna 
Sun 


| Dwadashamsha 


Mercury 


Rahu | Moon 
Mars 


Rahu-Mercury-Jupiter : October 24, 1988 to February 27, 1989. 
Dhanu-Karka : July 26, 1988 to June 26, 1989. 
Expired : February 7, 1989 


23°23' 
12°2' 
8°36" 


197 


In the Navamsha chart, the lagna lord is with the natal lagna lord 
(and AD) aspected by Jupiter (PD). Rahu-Ketu axis falls on the natal 
1-7 axis. 

In the Dwadashamsha chart, the lagna lord is Saturn (PD) and 
aspects the natal lagna lord (AD). Jupiter (PD) too aspects the natal 
lagna lord (and AD). 

The Moon and Venus, the natural benefics, in lagna are in Rahu- 
Ketu axis, aspected by Saturn. They are also malefic for the Kanya lagna. 

The next dasha is Rahu-Mercury-Saturn. Saturn is 6th lord and 
aspects lagna and Rahu (MD) as also the Moon and Venus in lagna. 
The further dasha of Rahu-Ketu too is detrimental. Ketu in this 
horoscope represents Mars and Jupiter, both being combust and malefic 
to the Lagna. 


B. Chara 

The MD-AD are 6/8 from each other. The MDis the 4th house rashi 
and 8th from lagna Navamsha. Saturn is posited in the MD rashi which 
is under the influence of Rahu-Ketu axis. The Sun, Mars and Jupiter 
aspect the AD. 


Case II 


This native suffered from chronic myeloid leukemia, another form of 
blood cancer. First diagnosed in May 1983, she eventually expired on 
9.5.1990, in Jupiter-Jupiter-Mercury (20.3.90 to 9.7.90). The Chara 
dasha in operation was Makara-Makara (6.2.90 to 6.1.91). The natal 
chart has Tula lagna. The Sun and the Moon are in MB. 


A. Vimshottari 


The MD and AD lord Jupiter is a malefic for this lagna. All the dasha 
lords are related to the lagna and/or lagna lord. The MD and AD lord 
Jupiter is aspected by Mars and Saturn. The PD lord is aspected by 
Saturn and falls in the Rahu-Ketu axis. The lagna and lagna lord are 
subject to the following afflictions: 


(i) Rahu-Ketu axis on lagna lord Venus in Rashi (as also in Navamsha 
and Dwadashamsha charts). 


(ii) Lagna lord is too near Ketu. 
(iii) Saturn aspects the lagna lord. 
(iv) Retrograde Jupiter aspects lagna. 


In the Navamsha chart, the lagna lord is both MD and AD placed 
in the 8th house withthe Sun in MB. The PD is in lagna with natal 


198 


Birth details: January 6, 1965, 1:45 a.m. (IST), Serampore. 


Lagna 19°4' Mars 1°42' Venus 28°31' 
Sun 21°56' Mercury 28°58' Saturn 8°22' 
Moon 24°7' Jupiter (R) 22°46' Rahu 29°25" 


Balance: Mars 6y-7m-0d 


Case I} 
Jan. 6, 1965 
1:45 a.m. (IST) 

Serampore 


Venus 
Ketu 


Jup.-Jup.-Merc. : March 20, 1990 to July 9, 1990. 
Makara-Makara : February 6, 1990 toJanuary 6, 1991. 
Expired : May 9, 1990. 


199 


lagna lord Venus. Rahu-Ketu axis falls on lagna, PD lord and natal 
lagna lord. 

In the Dwadashamsha, lagna lord is with the PD lord in the 6th 
house, with the Moon in MB, and in Rahu-Ketu axis. Lagna contains 
Saturn, aspected by MD and AD lord Jupiter. 

The Moon and Jupiter are the natural benefics in kendras. Jupiter 
is retrograde, in the 7th house, and aspects lagna. 

The next dasha ofJup-Jup-Ketu is adverse too. Ketu is very close 
to the lagna lord. It represents Mars which is a maraka and aspects MD 
which is also aspected by Saturn. 


B. Chara 


The MD-AD are Makara-Makara, which is the 4th house rashi, inhabited 
by the Moon in MB. Rahu-Ketu axis aspects the MD and AD. 


Case III 


This Meena-lagna native suffered damage to her kidneys during 
pregnancy in Dec. 1979. She eventually expired on Aug. 1, 1981. At 
the time of death, she was running Mercury-Ketu-Saturn (14.6.81 to 
10.8.81). The Chara dasha operating at the time was Simha-Makara 
(29.5.81 to 29.8.81). Ketu is in MB. 


A. Vimshottari 


The MD, AD and PD are aU malefic to the lagna. The MD and PD 
lords are marakas and AD (Ketu) is in the 6th house in MB and aspected 
by a malefic Mars. The MD and AD are in 6/8 relation with each other. 
The lagna is aspected by retrograde Saturn. Rahu-Ketu axis faEs on the 
AD lord (Ketu itself). 

In both the Navamsha and the Dwadashamsha, the dasha lords are 
related with lagna and lagna lord, and there is obvious malefic influence 
on them. 

Jupiter and Venus are the benefics in the kendras, both being under 
the aspect of Saturn, retrograde, and maraka for the lagna. 

In the subsequent dasha of Mercury-Ketu-Mercury, even Jupiter's 
aspect is taken away from PD, while both MD and PD still remain 
maraka. 


B. Chara 


MD and AD are in 6/8 from each other. MD is inhabited by Ketu in 
MB. MD is in 6th from lagna; AD is in 8th from AK and Venus. MD 
also happens to be 8th rashi from AK Navamsha. Rahu-Ketu axis 
involves the MD, and Ketu aspects the AD. 


200 


Birth details: May 29, 1951, 2:03 a.m. (ST), Bulandshahar. 


Lagna 8°25' Mars 12°02' Venus 26°54 
Sun 13°38" Mercury 19°26' Saturn (R) 2°22' 
Moon 25°53' Jupiter 14°26 Rahu 21°49’ 


Balance: Jupiter-7y 11m 8d 


Case 11] 
May 29, 1951 


2:03 a.m. (IST) 
Bulandshahar 


KK 


Moon | Mercury a 


Mercury-Ketu-Saturn : June 14, 1981 to August 10, 1981. 
Simha-Makara : May 29, 1981 to August 29, 1981. 
Expired : August 1, 1981. 


201 


Case IV 


This is a patient who had a severe paralytic stroke, and over the years 
made a remarkable, if incomplete, recovery. The lagna happes: to be 
Mithuna. The Vimshottari dasha at the time of onset of disease was 
Mars-Jupiter (22.12.82 to 28.11.83). Mars dasha lasted till 7.7.1988. 
Present dasha is that of Rahu by which time the patient is almost 80% 
recovered. Mars is in MB. 

The Chara dasha operating at the time of onset of disease was 
Dhanu-Vrischika (Feb. 83 to April '83). 


A. Vimshottari 


Both MD and AD lords are malefic to the lagna and related to lagna/ 
lagna lord. Lagna, lagna lord and AD are under malefic influence. The 
MD is 6th lord, is in MB and afflicts the AD, the lagna and the lagna 
lord. 

Involvement of lagna/lagna lord is present in the divisional charts. 
In the Navamsha, the lagna lord is MD with the Sun and Saturn. AD 
is in Rahu-Ketu axis, aspected by Saturn and aspecting lagna. In the 
Dwadashamsha, the MD is in lagna in exchange with lagna lord. AD 
is in the sign of natal lagna lord. The malefic influence on MD and 
AD in the Dwadashamsha chart is lacking though Mars afflicts the 
lagna. ; 

Venus is the benefic in the 7th, aspected by Saturn from the 
10th house. Jupiter aspects lagna and is posited with the lagna lord in 
the 9th. 

The next dasha was Mars-Saturn (28.11/83 to 7.1.'85). Saturn is not 
a malefic for this lagna and has no direct relations the lagna/lagna lord. 
Saturn as the 9th lord is also involved in an exchange with the 10th lord. 


B. Chara 


The MD-AD (Dhanu-Vrischika) are in 2/12 relationship. AD is 6th 
from lagna and inhabited by Mars in MB. Ketu too afflicts the AD. 
MD is aspected by Saturn. 


Case V 


Heart surgery (coronary bypass) was performed on this patient on 
25.7.1990. The patient has made near complete, albeit slow recovery. 
Lagna is Vrischika. The Moon is in MB. The Vimshottari dasha 
operating at the time of surgery was Rahu-Mars-Moon (12.7.90 to 
"13.8.90). This was followed by Jupiter MD. The Chara dasha was 
Mesha-Mithuna (January '90 to November '90). 


202 


Birth details: February 24, 1939, 12:46 p.m. (IST) Allahabad. 


Lagna 3°47' Mars 21°58" 
Sun 10°47' Mercury 14°22' 
Moon 1*12' Jupiter 19°18’ 


Balance: Ketu 6y-4m-13d 


Venus 25°24 
Saturn 21°20' 
Rahu 18°56' 


Mars-Jupiter : December 22, 1982 to November 28, 1983. 
Dhanu-Vrischika : February 24, 1983 to April 24, 1983. 
Stroke in Mars-Jupiter 


203 


Birth details: March 6, 1949, 1:05 am. (ST), Delhi. 


Lagna 19°32" Mars 24°15' Venus 11°6' 
Sun 21°45' Mercury 25°23' Saturn (R) 8°40' 
Moon 26°22! Jupiter 1*4' Rahu 3°12' 


Balance : Venus Oy Sm 7d. 


March 6, 1949 
1:05 a.m. (IST) 


Delhi 


Venus 
3 


ES 4 


Dwadashamsha 


Jupiter 


on 
ercury 
Sat. Ketu 


Rahu-Mars-Moon : July 12, 1990 cK Augitt 13;'1990 
Mesha-Mithuna : January 6, 1990 to November 6, 1990 
Bypass Surgery : July 25, 1990. 


204 


A. Vimshottari 


Of the three dasha lords, the dasha of Rahu alone is partly malefic. AD 
is the 6th lord. The lagna has no malefic influence though the dasha 
lords and lagna lord are variously afflicted. The Moon, the PD lord, 
is in MB, and afflicts the MD; both receive the aspect of a retrograde 
Saturn (from the 9th house!). Rahu-Ketu axis falls on MD and PD. 

In the divisional charts, the involvement of lagna lord with the dasha 
lords is obvious, along with malefic influence on them. Mars and Saturn 
aspect the Navamsha lagna. In the Dwadashamsha, lagna lord is with 
AD in Rahu-Ketu axis. Mars and Saturn afflict MD and AD, while 
Mars also afflicts the PD. Jupiter aspects the MD. 

Venus in the 4th is the solitary benefic under the malefic influence 
of the Sun, Mars and a retrograde Saturn. 

The next dasha is Jupiter-Jupiter (13.890 onwards). Jupiter is 
vargottama and a benefic for Vrischika lagna. It is, however, posited 
with the 8th lord and is debilitated. 


B. Chara 


The MD and AD are respectively 6th and 8th from lagna. MD is 
afflicted by Rahu-Ketu axis as well as by the Moon in MB. The dasha 
lasts from 6.1.90 to 6.11.90. 


Case VI 


Case VI belongs to a young lady who has undergone multiple operations 
on her urinary system on the right side. The first operation was done 
on 28.3.90 and consisted of removal of a stone from the right ureter. 
The second operation consisting of surgical correction of the obstruction 
to the right kidney was performed on 9.6.90. The final one was 
performed on 20.3.1991. The patient has recovered from her malady 
since. The Vimshottari dasha operating at the time of first operation 
was Moon-Jupiter-Venus (25.1.90 to 15.4.90); at the time of second 
operation, Moon-Jupiter-Moon (9.5.90 to 16.9.90); and at the time of 
third operation, Moon-Satun-Mercury (29.12.90 to 20.3.91) and 
Moon-Saturn-Ketu (20.3.91 to 23,4.91). The Chara dasha operating 
at the respective periods was Simha-Simha (10.3.90 to 10.9.90) and 
Karka-Vrishabh (10.1.90 to 10.8.91). The Moon is in MB. The lagna 
is Makara. 


A. Vimshottari 


The MD lord, the Moon, is a malefic for the ascendant and is in MB. 
The other two dasha lords (AD & PD) during the time of first two 
operations are malefic; not so at the time of the third, and finally 


205 


Birth details: June 10, 1960, 10:35 p.m.qsT), Batala. 


Lagna 12°31' Mars 29°35" Venus 23°12' 
Sun 26°29" Mercury 19°15° Saturn ) 23°40' 
Moon 13°14' Jupiter (R) 6°37" Rahu 26°51' 


Moon Jupiter (R 
Set (R) 


jupiter (R) 
Saturn (R) 


Ya 
Moon 
Venus 


agna 


ie SKC 


Navamsha 


Mars 


Jupiter |. 


Venus Dwadashamsha 


Moon-Jupitur-Venus : January 25, 1990 to April 15, 1990. 
Moon-Jupitur-Moon : May 9, 1990 to June 19, 1990. 

Moon-Sarum-Mercury : December 29, 1990 to March 20, 1991. 

Simha-Simha : March 10, 1990to June 10, 1990, 

Karka-Vrishabh : January 10, 1991 to August 10, 1991. 

Ist Operation: March 28, 1990, 2nd Operation: June 9, 1990, 3rd Operation: March 20, 1992 


206 


curative, operation. Dasha lords are variously under malefic influences, 
including the involvement of Trik houses. The Moon in MB afflicts 
dasha lords and lagna lord. The dasha lords are also related to lagna/ 
lagna lord in Navamsha and Dwadashamsha charts. In the 
Dwadashamsha chart, during the first two operations, the MD, AD and 
PD are under the aspect/association of Mars. During the third 
operation, the PD is spared the influence of Mars. There are no benefics 
in the kendras. 

Moon-Saturn-Ketu was followed by Moon-Saturn-Venus (23.491 
to 28.7.91) which led to complete cure. Venus is Yogakaraka in its own 
sign in the Sth. 


B.Chara 


During the first two operations, the MD and AD operating were 
Simha-Simha. Simha falls in the 6th from AK and 8th from lagna, and 
is in Rahu-Ketu axis. 

The MD and AD during the final curative procedure were Karka- 
Vrishabh which bear 3/11 relation to each other. The MD is aspected 
by Ketu. There is no other malefic influence on MD or AD. 


Case VII 


The native, born in Vrishabh lagna, had problems related to medical 
termination of pregnancy which led to an episode of sudden profuse 
bleeding and shock. Left untreated, this could have proved fatal. 
Prompt medical attention, however, revived her and a complete reco- 
very followed. The Vimshottari dasha operating at the time of the 
bleeding episode was Moon-Jupiter-Jupiter (11.688 to 15.888). 
The earlier incriminating surgical procedure had been performed in 
Moon-Rahu-Mars. The Chara dasha was Dhanu-Dhanu (2.7.88 to 
2.4.89). 


A. Vimshottari 


The Moon (MD) and Jupiter (AD, PD) are malefic for this ascendant. 
The MD and AD lords are placed in 6/8 relationship. The lagna is 
under malefic influence of Mars and retrograde Saturn. A retrograde 
Jupiter aspects lagna and the lagna lord which is exalted. The MD lord, 
the Moon, is’in Rahu-Ketu axis. No planet is in MB. 

In Navamsha, the Moon is again in Rahu-Ketu axis. Malefic 
influence on lagna, lagna lord and dasha lords exists in Dwadashamsha 
too. 

Kendras are bereft of benefics. A retrograde Jupiter is in 7th from 
lagna lord. 


207 


Birth details: April 2, 1957, 9:0 am. (IST) Delhi. 


Lagna 10°32’ Mars 16°18' Venus 15°40' 
Sun 18°52’ Mercury 1°27 Saturn (R) 20°58’ 
Moou 9°0' Jupiter (R) 1°40’ Rahu 26°54 


Balance: Ketu 2y 3m 9d. 


Apr. 2, 1957 
9:0 a.m. (IST) 


upiter 
(R) 


= 
§ 


a 
2 
Px 
58 


pee 


Venus Jupiter 
- 6 oS 
/Lagn > Ras 
Jupiter 


Moon-Jupiter-Jupiter : June 11, 1988 to August 15, 1988. 
Dhanu-Dhanu : July 2, 1988 to April 2, 1989. 
Ailment-Treatment : July-August 1988. 


FE 


XN 
rx) 


< 
a 
3 
& 


208 


B. Chara 


MD and AD (Dhanu-Dhanu) are both 8th from lagna. In the 
Navamsha, the Rahu-Ketu axis involves Dhanu. 


Case VIII 


This native had an operation in Nov. 1987 for tuberculosis involving 
her left ankle joint. The surgical treatment, of necessity, was followed 
by about a year long medical treatment eventually leading to complete 
cure. The lagna is Vrishabh. The Vimshottari dasha operating at the 
time of surgical treatment was Mercury-Venus-Rahu (4.7.87 to 
7.12.87). Chara dasha was Makara-Kumbha (10.10.87 to 10.1.88). 


A. Vimshottari 


The AD is malefic for the lagna. The PD lord Rahu could also be 
considered adverse, being in 8th house with Mars, and in Jupiter's sign 
which is a malefic for the lagna. There is malefic influence on lagna/ 
lagna lord and the three dasha lords. Jupiter is in MB in lagna. Rahu- 
Ketu axis involves the PD. 

Navamsha and Dwadashamsha charts show involvement of lagna 
with dasha lords and malefic influence on them. In Dwadashamsha, 
Mars and Saturn aspect the AD lord Venus. 

Jupiter, in MB, is the only natural benefic in kendra (lagna). 

The Mercury~Venus dasha lasts till 29.4.89. Mercury-Sun follows 
next. 


B. Chara 


The MD-AD are 2/12 from each other. Jupiter in MB aspects the MD. 
AD is aspected by Saturn. 


Case IX 


This native of Dhanu lagna suffers from epilepsy, a chronic nonfatal 
disease. He has to regularly take medical treatment to keep his 
symptoms under control. The Vimshottari dasha operating at the time 
of onset of disease was Mars-Saturn (4.11.66 to 13.12.67). The Chara 
dasha was Tula-Mesha (18.5.67 to 18.4.68). Mars is in MB. 


A. Vimshottari 


The AD lord is malefic to lagna. The lagna lord and dasha lords are 
under malefic influence. The MD lord is in MB and aspects lagna lord; 
it is itself aspected by Saturn (AD). The divisional charts also show 
malefic influence including the implication of Rahu-Ketu axis. 


Birth details: April 10, 1954, 8:00 a.m. (ST), Baraut 


Lagna 2°46 Mars 5°48" Venus 13°42' 
Sun 26°28' Mercury 146 Saturn (R) 13°58" 
Moon 25°8' Jupiter 28*20' Rahu 26°4' 


Balance: Jupiter 9y 9m 25d. 


7 
Sun Venus Lagna | Moon : 
Mercury Jupiter | Ketu Lagna 


Jupiter 
Case VIE 2 
Apzil 10, 1954 
8:00 a.m. (IST) 
Baraut 


Dwadashamsha 


|_| mm fo 


e 
Mercury-Venus-Rahu : July 4, 1987 to December 7, 1987. 
Makara-Kumbha : October 10, 1987 to January 10, 1988. 
Surgery : November 1987. 


210 


Birth details: November 18, 1950, 11:20 a.m. (IST), Warangal 


Lagna 11°39’ Mars 21°45’ Venus 24°19' 
Sun 0°52' Mercury 21°10" Saturn 3°25" 
Moon 1°53' Jupiter (R) 4°29" Rahu 4°3' 


Balance: Sun 3y 7m 25d 


Nov. 18, 1950 


11:20 a.m. (IST) 
Warangal 


Mars Rahu 


ee 


V7 

ha 
Dwadashamsha 

i 


Mars-Saturn : November 4, 1966 to December 13, 1967. 
Tula-Mesha : May 18, 1967to April 18, 1968. 


Commencement of Ailment: Mid-1967. 


211 


Navamsha lagna is aspected by Jupiter. In the Dwadashamsha, the lagna 
lord is aspected by Jupiter. 

Exalted Mercury and a neechabhanga Venus are placed in the 10th 
house, in Rahu-Ketu axis and with Saturn. 

Rahu MD commenced on 13.6.1971, and Jupiter on 13.6.1989. 


B. Chara 


The AD (Mesha) is 8th from Venus which also happens to be AK. AD 
is aspected by Mars in MB. The MD is inhabited by a debilitated Sun. 


Case X 


Born in Karka lagna with no planet in MB, this female patient suffered 
from a relatively mild recurrent appendicitis which required a routine 
surgical procedure as treatment, followed by complete cure. The 
Vimshottari dasha operating at the time of surgical treatment was Rahu- 
Venus-Rahu (16.7.82 to 28.12.82). The Chara dasha was Kumbha- 
Kanya (Aug. '82 to Feb. '83). 


A. Vimshottari 


All the three dasha lords (MD, AD & PD) are malefic to the lagna. 
The lagna has not malefic influence. The lagna lord is aspected by 
Saturn. The iagna and lagna lord are not involved with the dasha lords. 
The dasha lords are under the mixed influence of Mars and Jupiter. The 
three dasha lords fall in the Rahu-Ketu axis. The Navamsha chart shows 
the influence of Mars on lagna lord, MD, AD and PD. In the 
Dwadashamsha, Mars and Saturn influence lagna, MD and PD; the 
latter two are also aspected by Jupiter. The subsequent dasha is that of 
Rahu-Venus-Jupiter (28.12.82 to 22.5.83). 


B. Chara 


The MD-AD (Kumbha-Kanya) are in 6/8 relationship. MD is 8th from 
lagna, as also 8th from lagna Navamsha. MD is involved in Rahu-Ketu 
axis. Jupiter and Saturn aspect AD. 


DISCUSSION 


Ten cases of known medical ailments have been analysed with a view 
to astrologically determine the time of onset of disease, its future course 
and outcome. The first three cases are those of patients who succumbed 
to their illnesses. Case IV is a serious ailment from which the patient 
made a slow and incomplete recovery. Cases V to X are diseases which, 
except for case IX, required surgical treatment for their relief. These 
cases have been listed in an approximate order of decreasing severity. 


212 


Birth details: August 26, 1960, 3:05 a.m. (IST), Delhi. 


Lagria 1'5s' Mars 21°49' Venus 26°57' 
Sun 9°20' Mercury 4°13' Saturn ) 18°52' 
Moon 20°19' Jupiter 0°30' Rahu 22°18' 


Balance: 2v 3m 5d. 


gna 
Case X 4 
Aug. 26, 1960 
3:05 a.m. (IST) 
Jupiter 9 
Saturn Jupiter 
(R) Saturn (R) 


|_| ram | tn] vem 
7 


Lagna 
Saturn 


ee Dwadashamsha 
zz 
ie] ie | He eo 


Rahu-Venus-Rahu —: July 16, 1982 to December 18, 1982. 
Kumbha-Kanya : August 26, 1982 to February 26, 1983. 
Surgery : August-September 1982. 


213 


Both Vimshottari and Chara dasha have been employed and are 
discussed below. 


A. Vinshottari 


I. An illness appears to come into being when a dasha detrimental 
to a lagna is in operation. One or more of the MD, AD and PD 
were found to be detrimental to the concerned lagnas in nine out 
of ten horoscopes discussed. In the tenth (case V) the dasha was 
partly malefic. 


2. When a dasha is related to lagna/lagna lord, the ailment is of a more 
significant nature. Thus only in one case (case X) was there no 
relation between the dasha lords and the lagna/lagna lord. 


3. Malefic influences on lagna were lacking in three of the ten cases 
(cases V, VI, X). Malefic influences were operative on the lagna lord 
in all cases except case VI. 


4. Malefic influences on dasha lords, in the form of aspect/association with 
malefics, were discernible in all cases. This shows that for an illness to 
occur, a malefic dasha should also be under the malefic influences. A 
relatively benign dasha too could produce disease ifit were under malefic 
influence, as in case V. 


5. Influence of Trik houses/lords over lagna/lagna lord was noticed 
in 9 out of 10 cases, while in all cases there was such an influence 
on dasha lords. : 


6. Except in case IV (a paralytic stroke) and case VI (during the first 
two surgical procedures only), the dasha lords were under the 
influence of Rahu-Ketu axis. The Rahu-Ketu axis seems to be an 
important factor for health. 


7. Mrityu Bhaga : In 7 out of 10 cases, some or the other planet in 
MB was related to one or more of the dasha lords. Of the three 
cases spared from the MB influence, case VII and case X had a 
prompt recovery following surgical treatment; case I, however, 
didn't survive. 


8. Malefic influence on lagna, lagna lord and dasha lords was noticed 
in all cases in the Navamsha and Dwadashamsha charts. 


9. Inall cases except case X, there was involvement of lagna/lagna lord 
with the dasha lords in the Navamsha and Dwadashamsha charts. 


10. Benefics in Kendras : Cases VI, VII and X had no benefics in 
kendras. 


214 


Case I 


Case IT 


Case III 


has the Moon and Venus in Lagna in Rahu-Ketu axis and 
aspected by Saturn. Venus is maraka and the Moon a malefic 
for the lagna. Venus is neecha too. There is profound malefic 
influence on the lagna and dasha lords. 


has the Moon in the 4th in MB. Jupiter is in the 7th but 
it is a retrograde Jupiter. The patient died in Jupiter-Jupiter- 
Mercury. The rule that a malefic lord's AD in its own MD 
is not excessively bad perhaps doesn't apply to a retrograde 
planet. 


has Jupiter in Meena lagna and Venus in the 4th. A 
retrograde Saturn aspects both the benefics. The patient died 
in Mercury-Ketu-Saturn. Ketu is in MB aspected by Mars. 
Mercury and Saturn are maraka for the lagna. This case is 
a fine example of the fact that it is the PD that precipitates 
an event. In the MD of Mercury (a maraka) and AD of Ketu 
(in MB aspected by Mars), the first PD involving the lagua/ 
lagna lord was that of Jupiter. Jupiter in its own sign in lagna, 
however, did not permit death which had to wait till the 
commencement of the PD of the maraka Saturn, retrograde, 
and aspecting lagna and lagna lord. 


Case IV has Venus in the 7th, aspecting lagna and in the sing of AD. 


Case V 


Case VIII 


Case IX 


It is aspected by a Saturn which is not retrograde. There are, 
however, other saving factors like Jupiter's influence oh lagna * 
as well as lagna lord. The Jupiter is additionally beneficial 
because of being involved in a Parivartana Yoga between 
9th and 10th lords. 


has Venus in the 4th house with a lot of malefic influence 
on it. Little wonder, it did not protect the native from a 
major ailment even when it was associated with the AD lord 
Mars. Retrograde Saturn aspects Venus from 10th house. It 
is relevant to note here that dasha lords were not malefic to 
the lagna. They are themselves under malefic influence. 


has Jupiter in lagna. This Jupiter, however, is in MB and, 
therefore, only partially beneficial. 


has an exalted Mercury with a neechabhanga Venus in the 
10th. It is partly tarnished by Rahu-Ketu axis and association 
with Saturn. 


11. Retrograde Benefics : Retrograde benefics in kendras seem to 
provide little protection. 


215 


Case II has a retrograde Jupiter in the 7th from lagna. She died 
in Jupiter-Jupiter. 


In case VII, a retrograde Jupiter is in 7th from an exalted Lagna 
lord. It also aspects the lagna. The native suffered illness in Moon- 
Jupiter-Mars. 


A retrograde planet aspecting a benefic in kendra seems to take 
away the beneficience of the latter as is evident in case III. Here, 
Jupiter in Meena Lagna and Venus in the 4th house are aspected 
by a retrograde Saturn in the 7th house. Also, in case V, a retrograde 
Saturn aspects Venus in the 4th house; this Venus is with Mars, 
the AD as well as lagna lord. 


12. The Subsequent Dasha : When a malefic dasha is followed by a benefic 
dasha, there is improvement in the condition of the patient. In the first 
three cases where death ensued, the subsequent dashas are adverse, 
permitting no respite. 


In case IV, Mars-Jupiter was followed by Mars-Saturn (28.11.83 to 
7.1.85). Immediately, the lagna and lagna lord were freed from the 
influence of AD, and the AD was freed from the influence ofa malefic 
Mars in MB. Subsequent MD of Rahu is better; Rahu in 5th is aspected 
by Jupiter. 

For case V, with Vrischika lagna, Jupiter is benefic and is vargottama. 
Things improved as Jupiter MD set in. 

In case VI, the MD of the Moon (in MB) is malefic and goes on 
till 29.6.96. However, the’ onset of Moon-Saturn caused improvement. 
Saturn is a benefic for Makara. 

In case VII, the malefic dasha of Moon-Jupiter-Jupiter is followed 
by Moon-Jupiter-Saturn w.ef. 15.8.'88. Saturn is a Yogakaraka here. 

In case VIII, Mercury-Vemis lasted until 30.490. The medical 
treatment had to continue until almost the end of this period which was 
followed by complete cure. 

Case DC shows a persistence of his chronic ailment with small 
fluctuations in his condition. The MD of Mars, Rahu and Jupiter are 
all under varying afflictions. 

Case X, with Karka lagna, suffered during Rahu-Venus-Rahu. The 
later part of this dasha saw her completely all right. Rahu-Venus-Jupiter 
dasha left no residual effects of her ailment. 


B. Chara 


The adverse periods in Chara dasha have been sufficiently indicated in 
the section on OBSERVATIONS". The important factors are: 


216 


- The 6/8 or 2/12 position of MD and AD. 

- MD/AD of 6th, 8th, 12th or 4th houses. 

- Affliction of MD/AD by Rahu-Ketu axis. 

- Planet in MB inhabiting or aspecting MD or AD. 

- MD orAD ofrashi in 8th house from lagna Navamsha or AK 


Navamsha. 


Note : In Vimshottari dasha, a malefic MD lord's own AD does not seem 


to do excessive harm. The reverse seems to be true in case of Chara 
dasha, Thus in case I], when Makara-Makara (4th house rashi 
dasha) was operating and the rashi was inhabited by the Moon in 
MB, the native died. In case VI, when Simha-Simha (8th house 
rashi, in Rahu-Ketu axis) was operating, the native had two surgical 
procedure which didn't prove curative, and she had to wattfor some 
more time when a third, and curative, operative procedure was 
undertaken. 


CONCLUSIONS 

1. Disease usually manifests when the dasha of a planet adverse to a 
lagna is in operation. 

2. A relatively benign dasha may turn adverse when the dasha lords 
are under various malefic influences. 

3. The relation of the MD, AD and PD lords with lagna/lagna lord 
enhances the impact of disease. 

4. When the dasha lords are not directly involved with the lagna/lagna 
lord, the ailment is of minor consequence. 

5. The factors that increase the intensity of disease include: 

(i) Malefic influence on dasha lords. 

(ii) Malefic influence on lagna/lagna lord. 

(iii) Rahu-ketu axis on dasha lords, 

(iv) Influence of Trik houses/lords on lagna, lagna lord and dasha 
lords. 

6. Involvement of lagna and lagna lord with dasha lords in Navamsha 
and Dwadashamsha charts, and malefic influences on all these, are 
further factors that lead to disease. 

7. Benefics in kendras do provide protection when they are associated 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


217 


with dasha lords and lagna/lagna lord, and when they themselves 
are not severely afflicted. 


Retrograde benefics in kendras are detrimental to health during 
their dasha periods. A retrograde benefic in kendra from lagna lord 
is equally unhelpful. Benefics in kendras aspected by a retrograde 
malefic are also helpless. 


In Jaimini, the 6th, 8th, 12th and 4th house dashas from lagna are 
harmful. The MD/AD relationship of 6/8 or 2/12from each other 
is also harmful. From the AK, Venus and the Sun, the 6th and 8th 
rashi dashas are detrimental to health. Involvement of MD or AD 
in Rahu-Ketu axis appears to increase the severity of disease. 


In the Chara dasha, it appears that a malefic AD in its own MD 
is still more malefic. This principle is at variance with the well- 
known Parashari principle where a malefic Antara in its own MD 
is not additionally malefic but transmits its maleficience to a 
subsequent malefic AD. 


Planets in Mrityu Bhaga form a special group. Their own dasha 
is malefic. They transmit their maleficience to the planets they 
aspect or associate with. On the other hand, aspects of other 
malefics on a planet in MB increase the maleficience of the latter. 


Planets in MB also seem to be important in the Chara dasha of 
Jaimini. The dasha of a Rashi inhabited by a planet in MB generally 
appears to cause a serious disease or even death if other protective 
influences are insufficient. 


An important factor in the recovery of a patient seems to be the 
subsequent dasha. When a malefic and disease-causing dasha is 
followed by an equally malefic subsequent dasha, the relief from the 
ailment is unlikely. A benefic dasha following a disease-producing 
dasha ensures recovery. 


SUMMARY 


1. 


3. 


Ten cases of known medical disorders have been analysed with a 
view to justify astrologically the occurrence and outcome of disease. 


Simple astrological principles have been employed. Three charts 
(Rashi, Navamsha, Dwadashamsha) and two dashas (Vimshottari, 
Chara) have been considered in this study. 


While several parameters have been used, the study is certainly not 
exclusive. Many more factors could have been considered but for 
the constraints of time and space. 


218 


4. The study highlights the importance of interaction between a 
malefic dasha and the lagna/lagna lord in causing a disease. This 
involvement is present in Navamsha and Dwadashamsh charts too. 


5. The adverse influence of planets in MB and planets involved in 
Rahu-Ketu axis has been highlighted, in addition to other factors 
considered routinely. 


6. Only a small number of cases with known medical history have been 
analysed and it is thus a sort of "postmortem" study of disease. Only 
when the astrologers are able to correctly forecast the onset and nati 
of disease will astrology be of any real utility to the medical professic 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


I am profoundly indebted to Shri KN Rao for providing me immense 
help and guidance in the preparation of this paper. Cases III and IV 
have been taken from the personal collection of Shri Rao. 


Prasthar-Ashtakavarga System of 
Prediction with Accurate Time Period 
Dr R K Aggarwal 


re Case Study 


The Ashtakavarga System, an exposition of which has been studied with 
considerable success by many astrologers and in many other subjects by 
the writer as well, is the main presentation of this paper. 

It has been a retrospective study in this particular example by making 
a further elaboration of the well known Sarvashtakavarga Chart. The 
attempt was made to further squeeze the time period of an event or 
activity for the purpose of prediction. 


Methodology 


There can be no other horoscope in which one can correlate the events 
with time except one's own or of the one who knows the definite time 
of his or her good or bad events. So, the subject of the study is so chosen 
as to get exact time of events (Born on 23.09.1943 at 12:12 noon in 
Delhi) and correlate the time period with the benefic bindus or malefic 
rekhas in a particular Kaksha or rashi. 


Jupiter 
Rahu 8 
Sept. 23, 1943 
Venus 
Birth details: September 23, 1943. 
Lagna 20°38" Mars 21*45' Venus (R) 9°29 
Sun 6°25’ Mercury (R) 9°24! Saturn 3°28" 


Moon 28°11 Jupiter 25°06" Rahu 20°32' 


220 


Birth Horoscope 


The method used for making the Bhinnashtaka-varga or individual 
Ashtakavarga charts is the standard one. 

No use of "Bhinnashtakavarga after reduction” has been applied in 
this study. 

"The only new experiment is to develop a chart which may be called 
a “Kakshya Chart* prepared with the help of Bhinnashtakavarga charts, 
Kakshya is defined as 1/8 part of rashi of 30°, each part comprising of 
3*45' placed in a sequence of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, Venus, 
Mercury, the Moon and the Ascendent. 

From each planet's Prasthar-Ashtakavarga, benefic bindus are picked 
up from their own charts in the same Kakshya-wise sequence, added 
together and put in eight equally divided parts of a rashi. The total of 
all these points in eight Kakashyas should tally with the points of 
Sarvashtakavarga Chart in each rashi. 

No difficulty was faced while making such a “Kakshya Chart”. 

-Tables Ia, Ib, Ic, Id, Ie, If, Ig (Bhinnashtakavarga or 
Prastharashtakavarga). 


Table II (Sarvashtakavarga Chart). 
Table III (Kakshya Chart). 


Broadly, the Natal chart, Navamsha chart, Vimshottari dasha and 
Sarvashtakavarga Benefic Bindus, were taken together to compare the 
past events. Specially the effect of a planet passing through a Kakshya having 
more than 4 or less than 4 benefic bindus on the events €&8 activities was 
studied. The hypothesis would be that a planet is bound to give good or bad 
results during this particular time which can be determined by the degrees 
of a planet with the help of emphemeris. 


Table la: Sun 

House I 1 wm vv vi VI VI po X XI XO 
Sign 8 9 10 li 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Saturn 0 0 0 oO 0 0 60 0 
Jupiter 0 0 0 0 

Mars 0 0 0 oO 0 0 #0 0 

Sun 0 0 0 0 oO 0 0 = #«0 
Venus 0 0 0 

Mercury 0 0 (0 0 0 0 9% 

Moon 0 “0 0 0 

Lagna (Ce | 0 0 oOo 90 
Total(48) 4 4 5 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 3 2 


Table Ib: Moon 

House I rt mi mv Vv VI VH VHT IX xX, XI xn 
Sign 8 9 10 II 12 1 2 3 4° 5 6 7 
Saturn 0 0 0 0 
Jupiter 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Mars 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Sun 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Venus 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Mercury O O O 0 0 0 0 90 0 
Moon 0 0 0 0 0 0. 

Lagna ' 0 0 0 0 

Total (49) 5 3 4 4 4 7 2 6 4 3 3 4 


Table Ie: Mars 


House I mm Iv VV w VIE VIN po x XI xn 


Sign 8 9 10 it 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Saturn 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Jupiter 0 0 0 0 

Mars 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Sun 0 0 0 0 0 

Venus 0 0 0 0 

Mercury 0 0 0 0 

Moon 0 0 0 

Lagna 0 0 0 0 90 


Total(39) 5 3 5 4 3 4 2 5 3 3 2 «0 


Table Id: Mercuiy 

House I 0 WwW IveV WV VWI po x XI xn 
Sign 8 9 10 Il 2 I 2 3.4 5 6 7 
Saturn 0 o 0 O 90 0 0 0 
Jupiter 0 0 0 0 

Mars 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Sun 0 0 0 0 0 

Venus 0 0 0 Oo 0 0 o 0 
Mercury 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Moon 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lagna 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 


Total (54) 5 5 5 6 4 4 4 6 4 = § 5 1 


222 

Table Ie: Jupiter 

House I it MW vv: VI VIE VII i xX XI xn 
Sign 8 9 10 u 12 I 2 3 4 5 6+ 7 
Saturn 0 0 0 0 
Jupiter 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Mars 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Sun 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Venus 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Mercury 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Moon 0 0 0 0 
Lagna 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 


Total (56) 4 6 3 5 3 5 7 4 5 4 5 5 


Table If: Venus 


House I Tt mm Iv Vv VI VIE VIII i xX XI XII” 


Sign 8 9 Io II 12 I 2 3 4 5 6 f 
Saturn 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Jupiter 0 0 0 0 0 

Mars 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Sun 0 0 0 

Venus 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Mercury 0 0 0 0 0 

Moon 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 


oO 
oO 
oO 
oO 
oO 
oO 


Lagna 0 0 


Total (52) 4 2 5 5 5 6 4 3 5 4 5 4 


Table Ig: Saturn 

House I TI wl Iv Vv VI Vil Vit Ix x XI XII 
Sign 8 9 10 II 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Satun 0 “0 0 0 
Jupiter 0 oO 0 0 

Mars 0 Oo 0 0 oO 
Sun 0 o 0 0 Oo 0 0 
Venus 0 0 0 

Mercury 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Moon 0 0 0 

Lagna 0 0 0 0 0 oO 


TotalG9) 4 2 2 3 2 


n 
w 
be 
> 
a> 
ww 
i) 


Table II : Sarvashtaka Varga 


House I 0 WwW Ww vv Vl Vi Vi po xX XI Xi 
Sign 8 9 10 II 12 1 z 3 4 5 6 7 
Sun 4 4 5 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 @ 2 
Moon 5 3 4 4 4 7 2 © 4 3 3 4 
Mars 5 3 5 4 3 4 Q2 5 3 3 2 «0 
Mercury 5 §° 25 6 4 4 4 6 4 5 (5) I 
Jupiter 4 6 3 5 3 5. 7 4 (5) 4 5 5 
Venus 4 2 > 5 5 6 #4 3 5 (4) 5 4 
Saturn 4 2 2 3 2 6 2 4 4 4 3 3 
Total (337) 31 25 29 32 26 36 25 32 29 27 26 19 


To simplify the process, the following steps are suggested for making 
a Kakshya chart. 


1. Prepare Ashtakavarga chart of each planet. (Bhinnashtakavarga 
chart or Prastharashtakavarga chart). 


2. Prepare Sarvashtakavarga chart. 
3. It is clear that each rashi has same Kakshya sequence of 3°.45' each. 


As such, pick up benefic points from same Kakshya of each planet. 
For illustration, follow the following steps: 


a) Start Kakshya chart from Saturn. 


b) Pick up the benefic points in Kakshya of Satum in the 
Prastharashtakavarga of all planets. (In the illustrated horo- 
scope, in 1st house total benefic bindus (points) in the Kakshya 
of Saturn comes to 3. See, one by the Moon, one by jupiter 
and one by Saturn. These make 3). 


c) Go on repeating the exercise for each Kakshya, in each house, 
for each planet, and you get the Chart III. 


4. Precaution is taken to confirm that the total of all benefic points 
in each house should be the same as that in Sarvashtakavarga, to 
ensure; that no mistake in calculation creeps in. 


5. Ifthere is a difference, check again 


It is now observed that we have divided a particular rashi into eight 
parts. The degrees of movement of every planet we know from any 
standard ephemeries. For our day to day use, we may draw the chart 
in a different shape and see at any point of time whether the favourable 
result will come or not during that point of time. In other words, one 
may try to do the particular activity during that favourable time when 
the total benefic points are good, the planet responsible for that event 


224 


or activity is pass- 
ing through the 
Kakshya having at 
least 4 or more 
than 4 points. 

Apparently the 
chart become 
simple enough to 
interpret for any May 15-16, 1990 
literate man if he 
knows the Kara- 
katva of planets 
‘ and the interpre- 
tation of houses. 
But it will also 
not work alone. 
As has been said 
earlier, it is also - 
important to know the basic nature of that particular planet in one's 
birth chart and the Vimshottari dasha one is passing through. If all are 
favourable, there are fairly good chances that the prediction shall come 
true. 


Table ITI : Kakshya Chart 

House 1 uomtWVeoepew vw va IX X x XI 

Planets Lag Keu Mass Sat Jup Venus Sun 
Mon Rahu Mer 

Rashi Scor. Sag, Cap. Agu. Pisce. An. Tau. Gem. Can. Leo Vir. Lib. 


Kakba 

Ca; a 
TH Jup) 3 4 2, 4 2 4 7 4 2 24°41 
wis(Ma) 4 9484 #4 6 7 2 4 S$ 3 4 3 3 
wo(su) 3 3 2 3 4 5 3 

45(Vee) 3 4 #4 #2 34 #3 6 3 23 3 
2°30 (Me) 5 2 6 6 1 2 = 5 

26'15(Mon) 5 6 20C« 2 Td SS 
Wy) 5 3 S§ 5 2 6 4,522 6 7 1 
‘otal 31 23 20 32 6 3% 8 32 0 2 


3 


225 


OBSERVATIONS 


It is not possible to give all observations here. To quote a few from the 
illustrated horoscope in the Kakshya Chart, we may observe: 


a) 


b) 


¢) 


d) 


e) 


The most beneficial house (from Ashtakavarga system) is the 6th 
house (Aries), having 36 points, then 4th (Aquarius) and 8th 
(Gemini) having 32 points each, followed by 1st (Scorpio) having 
31 points, and so on. The weakest is the 12th house (Libra) having 
only 19 points. 


In a Kakshya of 6th house whenever a planet will pass from 22°30 
to 26°15', it will be passing through the Kakshya of the Moon, and 
from 26*15' to 30° through the Kakshya of Ascendent having 7 and 
6 points respectively. 


That is, whenever planet is passing from 22*30' to 30° in this house, 
it is bound to give good results according to its Karakatva, provided 
the other factors are also taken into account and are favourable. 


If the planet is badly placed in birth chart and the dasha is also bad, 
atleast the bad results are nullified. 


On the other hand see Kakshya of Mercury and Ascendant in Libra 
(12th house). Both the Kakshyas have one point each with total 
benefic points 19. Whenever a planet is passing through these 
degrees of respective Kakshya, it is bound to give bad results 
relating to the Karkatva of that particular planet. Again’ it has to 
be judged in the light of other factors enumerated above. 


Few important events observed in the illustrated horoscope are 
enumerated below: 


1. 


2. 


On 15th May, 1990, when Jupiter was passing through Gemini in 
the Kakshyas of Venus and Mercury the native got through one of 
the most prestigious and tough examinations in India. Both 
Kakshyas were successively having 6 and 5 points. See the position 
of Jupiter in the natal chart. It is in the 9th house in Cancer, and 


the period was Ketu Mahadasha with Jupiter Antardasha. 


There was also support of Saturn in 3rd house in its own Kakshya 
having 4 points and Mercury in the Kakshya of the Sun having 5 
points in 6th house. 


Another interesting observation. The native was transferred on 
papers when Mercury was in Kakshya of Mercury in 5th house 
having only one point. After great labour of his friends and well 


226 


wishers, the transfer was stayed when it entered the Kakshya of the 
Moon and Ascendent having 7 and 6 points respectively, and the 
native joined quite a good administrative post of his choice on 26th 
June, 1990 when Mercury entered the Kakshya of Jupiter in VII 
house having 7 points. 


3. Mars is responsible for the results pertaining brothers and sisters, 
and blood disorders. Mars is also the lord of 1st and 6th houses. 
Every time that Mars has passed across Libra, having 19 points, 
the native has suffered from lots of mental agony either because of 
his own disease (high blood pressure) or because of the blood related 
disease of elder sister (who suffered from Aplastic anaemia) and 
severe anaemia of elder brother needing multiple blood transfu- 
sions. The dates of their sufferings fairly coincide with passing of 
Mars through Libra although these should also be corroborated 
with the individual horoscopes of both the sister and the brother. 


Here the native has learnt to be mentally prepared for any unwanted 
and untoward incident related to the Karakatva of that particular 
planet whenever passing through Libra, specifically for Kakshya of 
Mercury, the Moon and Lagna having 1, 2 and 1 points 
respectively, with a total of only 19 bindus in Libra. 


4. Another time and event of retrospective study is between 25th June, 
1984 to 5th July, 1984’ when the native was abroad. See the position 
of planets on 2nd July, 1984; Jupiter in Kakshya of Venus in Gemini 
having 3 bindus, Mars in Kakshya of Mercury having 1 bindu and 
Saturn in Kakshya of Venus-both in Libra (12th house) which is 
the weakest house of native having a total of 19 points. The three 
days were a period of great agony in that the native spent about 
Rs.50,000/- out of his hard earned money and took loans from 
friends and relations during this period. During this time the Moon 
passed through Kakshyas of the Moon and the lagna in Cancer, 
having only 3 and 2 points and Mercury in Gemini in Kakshya of 
the lagna having 2 bindus. The only support if any, could be by 
the Sun and Venus, both in Gemini (8th house) passing through 
Kakshyas of Venus (6 bindus) and Mercury (5 bindus) 
respectively. 


The native apprehended an untoward incident for his elder sister 
abroad in Dec, and Jan. 1986. The date of birth of the sister being 
January 5, 1938, in the present retrospective study, a chart is drawn for 
January 5, 1986. Sec the position as on next page. 


227 


Planet House Kakshya Bindus 
Sun Il Mer 2 
Moon xn Jup 2 
Mars Xi Mer I 
Mercury I Jup 4 
Jupiter 1 Moon 2 
Venus I Venus 4 
Saturn I Sun 3 
Rahu VI Sun 5 
Ketu XII Ven 3 


Mars remained in Libra from December 5, 1985 to January 22, 1986 
having total Ashtakvarga bindus 19, and in Kakshya of Mercury having 
only 1 bindu, the Moon again in 12th house (Libra) in Kakshya of 
Jupiter having 2 bindus, and Ketu in 12th house with Rahu in 6th house. 
The axis of Rahu-Ketu becomes important as Ketu is in the 3rd house in the 
natal chart and the native was having Ketu Mahadasha with Ketu 
Antardasha. The sister died abroad with diagnosis of Aplastic anaemia 
on 2nd March 1986. It was learnt later on that the diagnosis was made 
somewhere in last week of Dec. 1985 and since then she had been given 
several blood transfusions. She did not or could not contact any of her 
relations in India till death. 


: 
Sun (6) 
Mercury (2) 
Venus (5) 
@) 


Moon 


(3) & (2) 
July 2, 1984 


Mars 19°3' 
Venus 21°4' 
Sun 16°39' 


Mercury 27°3' 


@r @® Satum @® 1620 


: M 24°37' 

Jupiter (3) Lagna Mars (1) me 26°15" 
Satum (3) 8c 

Jupiter 14°9' 


Sarvashtakavarga with Planets' Kakshyabindu 


228 


On March 2, 1986, the position of planets was: 


‘Planet House Kakshya Bindus 
Sun IV Venus 2 
Moon XII Ascdt. 2 
Mars I Mercury 5 
Mercury Vv Jupiter 2 
Jupiter IV Mars 5 
Venus IV Ascdt. 5 

* Saturn I Sun 3 
Rahu VI Mars 2 
Ketu XII Mercury 1 


See the position above. Mars, Jupiter and Venus are passing through 
kakshyas having 5 points each while others are all passing through weak 
Kakshyas. Vimnshottari dasha of native is same i.e. Ketu/Ketu and again 
Libra of native is very weak being 12th house which also happens to be th 
lagna of the sister. The point of controversy is the number of benefic 
bindus of Mars, Jupiter and Venus and even then the death took place. 
This may be further studied from the angle of unnatural death e.g. the 
case of a poisoning leading to severe haemorrhagic disorder. There was 
lots of police and inter-Government correspondence regarding the 
death for quite some time. 

On 10th March 1986 cremation took place in the presence of 
younger brother of the deceased, elder to the native. 

The elder brother also suffered from hypertension during these month, 
in the same Vimshottari dasha of Ketu/Ketu, met with an accident sufferit 
severe head injuries on 19.04.86. See, Rahu/Ketu remain in 6th and 12th 
house. Besides this, the Moon was passing through 9th house in Kakshya 
the Moon having 3 bindus and Saturn in 1st house in Kakshya of Venus 
having 3 bindus. By now Saturn was retrograde and by one school of 
thought, if a planet (except Rahu and Ketu) is retrograde, it gives effects 
of the previous house. In this case if we apply this principle, this will 
mean, Libra, the 12th house, having 19 bindus only. 

The condition of brother became worse when the Moon came in 
Libra on 24th and 25th April (as in the case of sister) and Mars came 
from Kakshya of Venus to Mercury having only 2 bindus instead of 4. 
The Sun also came in Kakshya of Mars having only 2 bindus. He was 
discharged from the hospital on 7th May, 1986 when the Sun entered 
in Kakshya of the Moon having 7 points. 

In this case Mercury in 5th house in Kakshya of Mars having 7 bindus 


229 


and Jupiter in 4th house in Kakshya of Mercury having 6 bindus and 
Venus in 6th house in Kakshya of lagna having 6 bindus can be called 
as life saving combination for the person. 

Again in 1987 when Mars passed through Libra, elder brother 
suffered from acute anaemia needing blood transfusion and in 1988 with 
Amoebic liver abscess during same type of transit of Mars through 
Libra. All these events cannot be said to be only co-incidence and need 
detailed study. The author has a very meagre knowledge of astrology 
and would like the esteemed readers to make their own conclusions as 
well as enlighten us with their experiences on the results of 
Prastharashtakavarga charts in different horoscopes. 


CONCLUSION 


The author has always done a retrospective study of various events 
during the last about 10 years, in many horoscopes, then predicted many 
good or bad events with success in a good number of cases, and found 
that the system of Ashtakavarga works well and gives very accurate 
results specially in case: 


a) When accurate time and place of birth are not known. Often people 
have only a birth horoscope and do not know any further details. 


b) Even if this system is applied to birth chart alone without taking 
other factors into consideration, fairly good predictions can be 
given. Further pinpointing the time for an event is possible if the 
Moon is aspecting the Janma Nakshatra or if a favourable 
Nakshatra is falling during the passing of a planet from a Kashya 
having four or more than four bindus. 


c) The Kakshya chart is essential for accurately predicting the events 
at a particular time. 


Mystic Trio in Astrology 
BP Malviya 


Ananda or bliss is the ultimate destination of soul transmigrating through 
series of births. How astrology with its twelve houses reveals all this is the 
theme of this paper which was presented in the Rashmi Vigyan Astrology 
Conference at Kanpur in April 1985.The writer, steeped in religious classics 
presents his interpretation of three houses, the third, the sixth and the 
eleventh, and the houses opposite to these, the ninth, the twelfth, and the 
fifth, to explain how a horoscope indicates bondage of Maya and liberation 
from it. 


In esoteric astrology a malefic in the third house helps in long unbroken spells 
of spiritual practices, done physically; malefics in the sixth house, help in 
withdrawing the mind from snares of Maya to develop one-point 
concentration, in yogic parlance, Ekagrata. 


The writer has, in his own original way, arrived at those secret points of 
esoteric astrology which only astrology-knowing sadhus know. 
- Editor 


Trishadaya, the Mystic Trio 


Twelve Houses: Boons and Curses — @@ ft** TASTES (As the cosmos, 
so the body) propounds the identity of human body (supposed to be 
the highest form of His creation) with the cosmic body divided 
astronomically in twelve parts each with a specific congregation of 
constellations through which the planetary bodies tend to move 
incessantly affecting, rather controlling thereby, the existence on the 
earth. Be it for the purpose of mundane or individual, the chart with 
the twelve Rashis as also the planets posited therein, forms the subject 
matter of astrological quest in its totality with a view to peep into and 
decipher the promises and potentialities hidden therein. There can be 
no chart which is not pregnant with the so-called boons as also the curses 
which represent the two facts of life with little relevance to those who 


231 


have acquired real insight to understand the ultimate reality and are 
deeply embeded in the faith of benedictory posture of the Creator- 
Sustainer-Destroyer, the Almighty whom the entire worldly existence 
has emanated from. 


Contradictions in Cosmos 


Srishti, the creation, as it appears, is nothing but a bundle of 
contradictions or opposites with basic interplay of Trigunamayimaya and 
yet a unified whole where — of the ultimate formation is enunciated 
by Pujyapada Goswami Tulsidas in his immortal epic, Rama Charit 
Manas, as under. 


“as Gar qreresa fax are mrar” 


God has created the universe consisting of animate and inanimate 
beings as partaking of both good and evil. 


Thus the contradiction is in the root of existence. But at the same 
time every thing here tends to change, to pass over into its opposite. 
The seed has in it the impulse to be something else, to contradict itself 
and to transcend itself. Without contradiction there would be no life, 
no movement, no growth, no development and every thing would be 
but a dead existence. The opposites are, however, opposite only with 
respect to each other and not with respect to the unity or the whole 
where-of they form the parts. Passing over into its opposite is a dialectal 
process in the realisation of the lower i.e. what the lower really intends 
to be - and taken by themselves they have no value or meaning but as 
part of a whole they too have value and meaning. Thus the opposites 
are in themselves the balancing forces, the reconciling factors necessary 
for existence and sustenance of this process of life. 


Mystic Trines in Astrology 


It is in the above background that one of the trios of Astrology, the 
mystic trio ie. Tri-Shad-Aya has to be dealt with. 

Astrology as per the general trend prevailing today is taken to be the 
Vidya for predicting the future course of life i.e. gain and loss, pleasure 
and pain and so on, in this worldly life alone. 

Whereas our great seers, the Rishis, the propounders of this great 
science, mother of all sciences - made the latent approach with a view 
to providing an insight to go into the inner secret of human life (a rare 
and valuable one), the metaphysics approach. It is this very part of Veda 
(Vedachakshu) where upon rests the epitome of metaphysics, the 
Adhyatma, the ultimate goal of life-elevation of the self. 


232 


Laghu Parashari Sloka 6 runs thus - 
wd Barr A a We: BHM | 
qaakRarsrar ape coTwCTAT || 


The lords of the trines are auspicious but those of trithadaya are in- 
auspicious) and that too relatively powerful (TARA). 


THE TRIO 


3rd, 6th, 11th Houses 


Byoadly, the 3rd house signifies valour, 6th house signifies enemy and 
disease and the 11th house signifies gain. It is understandable that the 
6th house signifying enemy, disease and debt, is unpalatable as no one 
would like to totter, to decay mentally, physically or financially. But life 
without valour and vitality is abnegation of itself, a nullity; a state of 
worthiness and gain is but another name of success towards which are 
oriented the efforts of masses at large. Why these three have been 
bracketed together and branded as inauspicious was a big question mark 
for which no convincing answer had been coming forth. Reasons in 
support of Trishadaya are available in the brilliant annotation of 
Laghuparashari by Pt. Seetaram Jha of Varanasi but that too, though 
convincing, could not fully satisfy the inquisitive quest. The obsession 
continued to persist and the answer that sounded convincing was to be 
found by the grace of the great scholar saint, Baba Tulsidas. 


Lust, Anger, Greed 


The three houses of Trishadaya are the houses of Kama (desire), Krodha 
(anger) and Lobha (Greed) respectively and as such have been 
disdainfully so discarded ‘- 


“Tri-vidham narakasyedam 
dvaram nasanam atmanah 
Kamah, Krodhas tatha lobhas 
tasmad etat trayam tyajet.” 


[Desire, anger and greed — thetriple gate of hell brings about the 
ruination of soul. Therefore one should avoid all these three.] 
(GITA : XVI/21) 


The question is how the reality of life, the very root of our existence 
and sustenance can be dismissed so summarily but at the same time how 
can, what Gita says could go wrong. 

In the above shloka of Gita 'ruination of the soul’ are the keywords 
wherefrom the real (inner) implication of Trishadaya could be traced. 
The three houses are extremely bad metaphysically or spiritually but not 
otherwise. These are the most acceptable ‘trios’ in so far as this physical 
(worldly) significance is concerned because life, its creation as also its 
sustenance without these is unimaginable and here we have to again look 
back and find that when everything has emanated from the ‘one’ and 
the same ‘source’ and this world, governed by the principle of 
contradiction is basically the intermixture of good and evil, how it is 
possible to discern what is at all good and what is evil. 


Importance of 5th, 9th, 12th Houses 


Bhakti, viveka and gyana, these are three tenets of mukti-marga i.e. 
freedom from bondage and the houses signifying these three fall 
opposite to 3rd, 6th and 11th houses i.e. Tri-Sshad-Aya. Now whereas 
kama is at the very root of creation absolute freedom comes only through 
complete desirelessness — 


wel arcade wa afer A AfeeTAI 
Jan seta we woe ofa wrt ge ora 
Night and day can not exist together and therefore, so long as there 


is kama or vasana or desire in oneself how is Rama's realisation 
(bhakti) is possible in one's self i.e. Atman? 


From worldly point of view 6th house is the house of competition 
which is the pre-requisite for material progress as also the house 
wherefrom the desire of having life companion i.e. having a spouse too 


234 


springs. Krodha in this world has its positive aspect as well, as without 
Krodha banner against injustice and atrocity cannot be raised and evil 
forces cannot be fought out. 

But Krodha having inherent tendency to ruin others and being the 
root of all sins has two off shoots I and mine, you and yours (Dwaita- 
Buddhi) i.e. the real formation of “MAYA” (another name of Agyana) 
which has taken into its grip the ehtire living beings — 


wa fe a gf f& Ry om 


Thus without the annihilation of Dwaita-BbavaAdwaita Bbhava, 
which is the culmination of GYANA, the gateway to liberation 
(ga si-Taf), represented by 12th house (the house of Moksha) 
is not possible. 


11th House 


Last of this Trio, the most powerful, Lobha (greed) is the impetus, pace~ 
setter without which there shall be no movement, no dynamism in life. 
Every gain or success paves the way for another effort as the more one 
gains the more greedy one tends to be — 


“area wefe Ura wyaE 
far oft ara or aftrag” 


Any control over the Lobha is possible only by contentment which has 
its root only in Viveka, represented by the 5th house. Viveka is the 
beacon light of life. 


“fate: wer vafa fafa: wa zw” 


Of the two main divisions of the nine planets between Krura (malefic) 
and Saumya (benefic), the natural malefics (Krura Graha) have the best 
position in 3rd, 6th and 11th houses because they have the potentiality 
to control and channalise the evil effects of these houses by giving them 
proper balance in life as also paving way for the higher achievements. 
Natural benefics in these houses have the tendency to prop up the 
potentialities inherent in these houses and have also the tendency to 
provide imbalance. For example, natural benefics specially Jupiter and 
Venus in Sth house or having been posited in 11th and aspecting 5th 
house make one selfish, ambitious and greedy and cloud the Viveka, 
while malefics in these positions have the balancing force, and of all, 
the two, Mars and Saturn, are relatively more powerful, the most 
powerfull being Saturn. 


235 


This topic is quite deep and requires further specific elucidations 
which is not possible in this small space. I have given hints with the 
request to further probe and test the surra, but before concluding it is 
essential to mention thé key of this Trio. 

This world is a mental asylum where madness for wealth and women 
is prevalent, leading to confrontations and the Tripurasur (i.e. Mana 
— the mind) embedded in us is running after these respectively. 

When we describe life as a story of struggles, we must understand 
it in the sense in which it has been described in the Vishnu Purana, the 
aadi-bhautika, the aadi-daivika and adhyatmika struggles or in modern 
parlance, the physical, the mental and the spiritual struggles. The 
Srimad Bhagvatam refers to human life as a badvaanala (the huge fire). 
The Tripurasura in us (the third, the sixth and the eleventh houses) is 
man's chase after physical and sensual pleasures which is destroyed by 
Lord Shiva who acts through three opposite houses, the fifth, the ninth 
and the twelfth houses. 

TheTripura is depicted as having three abodes in the sky which 
represents the three houses of the horoscopes, the third, the sixth and 
the eleventh houses. 

Lord Shiva destroyes Tripurasura with one arrow, runs the well- 
known Puranic story. 

That one arrow must be Saturn, a planet about which when years 
ago I was learning astrology, Mr. K.N. Rao told mé that Parashara has 
emphasised the role of Saturn even for Yoga Siddhi. The story of Saturn 
in the Brahma Vaivarta Purana portrays Saturn as a recluse, as a Tapasvi. 
The melancholoy that Saturn represents is the beautitude of melancholoy, 
in a metaphysical sense, born of disillusionment with all that is dross 
and gross, sensual and unstable in human life. 

If Saturn destroys the Tripura rakshasa he must occupy in every 
horoscope a place from where he can destroy the abodes of Tripura. This 
can be done best when Saturn occupies the ninth house from where he 
aspects the eleventh house, the third house and finally the sixth house. 

Alternately if Saturn gets posited in one of the houses the third, the 
sixth or eleventh with Rahu in any of the two houses not covered by 
Saturn and the third abode of Tripura has no planets and no aspects 
of planets, it works. 

Around three pivots in a horoscope the goddess of Maya dances its 
bewitching dance of enticement, the third, the sixth and the eleventh, 
and around three pivots, the fifth, the ninth and twelfth houses, the 
grace of Lord Shiva helping us transcend Maya, opens unto us, the gates 
of liberation. 


. 


Role of Darakaraka in 
Vimshottari Dashas 


Supriya Jagdish 


ae Vedic system of astrology should be taken as an integrated system 
of prediction and not as different fragments to be applied differently 
to different events for different times. A flexible approach can be made 
only by applying principles of one branch of astrology to another branch. 
For instance, in Varshaphala or Tajik a malefic in 9th house, particularly 
Rahu, can hold promise of foreign journey. If the same principle is 
applied in transit to a particular horoscope without any reference to the 
annual horoscope, even then a prediction about a foreign journey can 
be made. 

In this brief research paper, the subject for exploration is: what 
are the results available if Jaimini’s karakas like Atmakaraka, 
Darakaraka etc. are applied to Vimshottari dasha? What is the 
role of Darakaraka when it is extended to the Vimshottari 
dasha in the settlement of marriage and marriage related problems, 
including birth of children, during the Vimshottari dasha major and 
subperiods? 

It is well-known that in Jaimini the planet with lowest degree, 
excluding Rahu, Ketu, assume the role of Darakaraka. Darakaraka 
signifies spouse, wife in the case of a male and husband in the case of 
a female. Darakaraka indicates not merely spouse or love affair but also 
partnership, death, mishaps etc. But one need not take this as a 
thumbrule. . 

It can only be a guiding principle. Instead of applying all karakas, 
I have chosen 35 horoscopes to scrutinise the significance of the 
Darakaraka’s dasha in Vimshottari dasha scheme. 


Nine horoscopes are given here to explain this approach: 


Case One 


This girl was born in the main period of Venus, who is her Darakaraka 
in 10th house associated with Mercury. In Vimshottari mahadasha, 


Case One 
June 26, 1973 


Jupiter 10 : 


PEOX 


Moon-Mercury period started in 1989-90, and at so young an age, she 
fell in love with a boy, did badly in her studies and became a serious 
problem for her parents. But as soon as the Mercury antardasha was 
over she started doing well in her studies again. 


3:46 p.m. 


Case Two 


Here is another horoscope. Dasha of Mercury started in 1985 and 
the antardasha of Venus in 1989. This native born in 1951 got 
married at the age of 38 years in the main period of Darakaraka Mercury 
and sub-period of natural Darakaraka Venus posited with Mercury. 


Case Three 


This native born iri December 1928 got married in February 1962 in 
the mahadasha of Venus a natural Darakaraka and antardasha of 
Mercury posited with Darakaraka Sun. Birth of his first male child also 
took place in same Venus-Mercury Dasha. Her two were daughters 
born in Sun-Saturn and Sun-Mercury periods. Sun is Darakaraka and 
Mercury and Saturn are posited with the Sun. Period of Sun-Rahu was 
the period of much anxiety, stress and strain for both husband and wife 
due to the problems relating to the health of their son, both malefic 
dasha aspected by malefics, devoid of any benefic aspect. 


Case Four 


This native was married in the Mercury mahadasha, which is 
Darakaraka and sub period of Ketu aspected by Darakaraka in 
Navamsha. Birth of two daughters in Mercury-Venus and Mercury- 
Jupiter periods in mahadasha of Darakaraka. 


Case Five 


In this case, the native born in June 1932 got married in June 1959 in 
Saturn-Moon mahadasha of Darakaraka. His wife expired in June 1989 
in Ketu-Sun period, Ketu aspected by Darakaraka in Navamsha. 


2 


8 


Jupiter 


Y 
‘Lagna 
Mars |Mer Ven 
Sun 


Case Five 


Jupiter 
Sat (DK)|Mercu: 


Malefic mahadasha and malefic antardasha. 


Case Six 


This native bom on 14th November 1943 at 0:29 hrs in Delhi was 
married in mahadasha of Rahu and antardasha of Moon. Rahu is in 
conjuction with Saturn in Navamsha which is his Darakaraka. In the 
same dasha, he was blessed with his only daughter. Since May 1980 in 
the period of Jupiter-Rahu both husband and wife separated and a 
petition for divorce was filed. Rahu is with Darakaraka Saturn in 
Navamsha and Jupiter is aspected by Darakaraka Saturn in birth chart 
as well as in Navamsha chart. Divorce was finalised in May 1989 in 
mahadasha and antardasha of Darakaraka Saturn. 


Case Seven 


In this horoscope, the native gets mahadasha of his Darakaraka Jupiter 
from March 1959 to March 1975. In the beginning of Darakaraka’s 
mahadasha and antardasha, he was married and blessed with three sons 
between 1960-62. His father-in-law died in November 1972 in the 
dasha of Jupiter Darakaraka and antardasha of Rahu posited with 
Darakaraka in Navamsha. 


240 


Navamsha - 
ze a 


Jupiter 
(DK) 


241 


Case Eight 


This lady born on Sth September 1955 married in November 1975 in 
the mahadasha of Venus, a natural Darakaraka and antardasha of 
Saturn, aspected by her Darakaraka Moon in birth chart and Saturn 
in with Darakaraka in Navamsha. In the same dasha, she was blessed 
with twin sons in September 1976. As soon as the mahadasha of 
Darakaraka Moon started in June 1988 she was separated by her in- 
laws and her married life became a total hell. Though Moon is 
Vargottam it is in gandanta in first degree of Aries, aspected by malefic 
Saturn. 


Moon (DK) 


Mercury 
Satum 


Case Nine 


This lady born in November 1929 married in May 1946 in the Mercury 
mahadasha and antardasha of Jupiter, aspected by her Darakaraka Mars 
in birth chart. Mahadasha lord Merculy is also aspected by Darakaraka 
in Navamsha. Her father-in-law died in the Moon-Venus dasha. Moon 
is aspected by her Darakaraka in Navamsha. 


This research is confined only to finding out the significance of 
Darakaraka dasha, not to the exclusion of the Lagna, 7th or 12th lords 


242 


7 


iz ” es 


Jupiter 


Navamsha 
Mars 
(DK) 

me || | 


or planets associated with 7th lord. The simple point of enquiry is: is 
this Darakaraka dasha any help in seeking answer to some events in 
problems relating to marriage satisfactorily in some cases or not? 
These combinations have been tested on as many as 35 horoscopes 
and in 32 horoscopes these principles apply squarely to the birth 
horoscope or Navamsha or both and invariably the major or sub period 
of Darakaraka has been a very sound indicator of the events mentioned. 
It therefore strikes us that we can profitably make use of this method 
for making predictions by forging a superfine tool in this fashion. 


Summary and Observations 


Out of the 35 cases examined, in 3 cases the Darakaraka could not be 
applied directly to marriage related events, otherwise it has been seen 
that the Darakaraka has a very definite role in marriage related 
problems. The mere fact that in 32 out of the 35 cases this principle 
of extending Jaimini’s karakas to Vimshottari dasha has been working 
very well is an indication that this be accepted as a valid rule of 
interpretation of Vimshottari Dasha. 

The percentage of results got in this piece of research is 91.42% it 
should have been 100% if a finer point of a particular sutra of Jaimini 


243 


is also applied. But my guide Shri K N Rao has told me to produce 
research to direct case of application first. After this stage combine the 
other principles of Jaimini and produce a more substantial research. The 
purpose of this particular research was to ascertain the validity of straight 
application of Jaimini karaka to Vimshottari dasha. 

Jaimini gives a very valuable clue in one of the sutras on how to make 
use of Darakaraka for detecting childlessness in a horoscope. Birth of 
children in Darakaraka mahadasha and antardasha is a logical extention 
of this principle. 

The sutras of Jaimini are abstruse. In our understanding of Jaimini 
astrology unless you maintain a success rate of more than 80% in your 
researches in the beginning, it would be difficult to go into mote 
complex researches later. Each karaka of Jaimini reveals a mine of 
information. 


Observations 


1. Ithas beeh observed that a planet aspected by Darakaraka partakes 
in the work of Darakaraka directly. 


2. In the sub-period ofa malefic, in the main period of Darakaraka 
has been the cause of problems in married life. 


3. Inthe sub-period of a planet posited in 6th or 8th house from Lagna 
or from Darakaraka, there have been similar problems in married 
life. 


From this simple research some minute and specific events are visible 
and can be predicted.- At the moment we are not going into those 
problems both because it can be frightening and also because in this 
paper complex approach has been avoided totally. 


Conclusion 


After studying 35 horoscopes a reasonally correct conclusion can be 
drawn that Darakaraka has a definite role in marriage and its related 
problems.’ This has been fairly well established when the principle of 
Jaimini's karakas was applied to Vimshottari dasha. A detailed study of 
Jaimini's karakas will reveal much more useful information. 


