An Introduction to 


Saral 
Ashtak Varg 
Siddhant 


Arun Kumar Bansal 


Publisher: 
All India Federation of Astrologers' Societies® 


1. Introduction ----------------------------------------n-nn nnn nnnennnnn nnn n nnn nner nnnnce 1 
2. Trikon Shodhan wenn nnn nnn nnn ene enn ene nee neem nn eee enn nen en ne nennenne 34 
3. Rashi Guinak ----------------------20----onnnnnenncccenenennnn nce ennnnnn nen nnmnnnnennnnntnnn 52 
4. Planetary Factor -------------------------------------------------nnnn nn nn enn nnn ne ne ene 55 
5. House and analysis of House Prediction ------------------------------~------=------- 64 


6. Prediction of transit by Ashtak Varg -----------------------------2---- == one enn ne een nee 95 


Introduction 


Our ancient sages (Rishis) have introduced such a fine method in Horashastra that can 
help us find out the benignity and malignity of planets and their influence on the life of mankind. 
They produced a system that can be helpful in.finding out the lines and points. The system 
is called Ashtakavakga. By this system it is easy to find the good and evil effects of the 
deeds of a man. Even a learned and well-educated astrologer cannot attain the desired 
success without the knowledge of Ashtakavarga. It is not possible to find out the benefic 
and melefic results caused due to the merits and demirts of the horoscope of a person 
without the knowledge of Ashtakavarg. The author of this book had started studying the 
system some twenty years back and came to the conclusion that there is no system better 
than this that could make an accurate prediction. 


By Ashtakavarga, all the malefic and benefic outcome of the deeds of a man can be found 
out scientif ially. With the help of this system a minute prediction can be cast. A fine theory of 
the relation between individual and society is applicable on this system. There can be some 
differences on the results predicted by Vimshothari and transit on the basis of planets and 
houses, on signs and ascendants. In these circumstances, how can a true prediction be 
made? That is why, the ancient astrologers have advised to use the Ashtakavarga system. 


It is very hard to find out the effects, time and nature of a planet by the common theories of 
Falit, but by this system, this is possible. For instance, a planet will enhance the influence 
related to its own house if it is conjoined with or aspected by benefic planets while situated 
in own, exalted or friendly sign. This is a widely accepted theory. But the question is what 
enhancement will take place in the sphere of the said aspect by that particular planet i.e. 
what will be the ratio of the benefic and malefic results? It is in this regard that the 
Ashtakavarga system is considered to be very authentic and decisive. With its help, prediction 
regarding the ratio of gains, auspicious directions, gains from brothers, results of planets in 
transit etc. and the age, wealth, education, wisdom, relation between husband and wife, 
happiness, property, land, vehicle and deeds of a man can be made easily. 


To cast an Ashtakavarga, lines and points are used. A line has four synonyms -time itself, 
place, consequence and phase. Similarly, a point or a dot has also four synonyms-point, 
Karan, Daya, Aksha. While making prediction by an Ashtakavarga, it should be kept in view 
as to how many points and lines are there in it. Prediction of benefic results is expressed by 
line, whereas that of malefic ones is expressed by Zero. But in South India the benefic 
results are expressed by points whereas the malefic ones by lines. In this system, both the 
auspicious and inauspicious results can be forecast either by points or by lines. A result 
benefic by the line will be malefic by the points. Similarly, a result benefic by the point will be 
malefic by the line. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


In Ashtakavarga, there are seven planets in order from i.e. Lagn Sun to Saturn. Ascendant 
has been accepted as the eighth planet. This is why this called Ashtakavarga. Some scholars 
do not accept the ascendant or Lgan. Here, a method for casting an Ashtakavarga with the planets 
and ascendant is given below. 


Suryashtaka Varga 


In Saryashtaka Varga auspicious lines fall on 18, 2", 4", 7", 8, 9", 10" and 11" houses 
from where the Sun is posited in the horoscope of a person. This means that the Sun gives 
auspicious lines to the signs falling in Kendra, second, eighth, ninth and eleventh houses 
from the sign it is posited in, but it gives points i.e. inauspiciousness to the rest of the 
houses. The Sun has got 48 lines in Suryashtaka Varga, rest of the planets give lines in the 
following manner. 


Moon gives line to the 3, 6", 10" and 11" houses, from its own house. 

Mars gives line to the 1:, 2"°, 4", 7", g'" g 10, and 11" houses from its own. 

Mercury gives line to the 3, 5", 6”, 9 ” 40", 11% and 12" houses from its own. 

Jupiter gives lines to the 5", 6", 9"" and 11" houses from its own house. 

Venus gives lines to the 6",7" and 12" houses from its own. 

Saturn gives lines to the 1°, 2"¢, 4", 7", 8!" 9", 10 and 11" houses from its own. 

The Lagna renders lines to the 3°, 4'", 6", 10", 11" and 12" houses from its own. 

The sum total of the lines given by the Sun is 48. A table in this regard is given here under. 
Rekha Sthanas in Suryashtak Varg (48) 


Sun Moo. Mar. Mer. Ju. Ven. Sat. Lag. 


2 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Chandrashtaka Varga 


The Moon gives auspicious lines to the 1°", 3°, 6", 7", 10 and 11" houses from the house 
in the horoscope it is posited in. This means that the Moon gives auspicious lines to the 
signs falling in the Upachaya house and ascendant the seventh house from the sign it is 
posited in. 


In Chandrashtaka Varga, rest of the planets give lines in the manner as mentioned below. 
Mars gives line to the 2", 3, 5", 6”, 9" 10" and 11" houses from its own. 

Mercury gives line to the 1%, 3, 5", 7, 8", 10" and 11"houses from its own. 

Jupiter gives line to the 1°", 4, 7", 8", 10,11" and 12 “houses from its own. 

Venus gives line to the 3, 4", 5", 7", 9'", 10" and 11'" houses from its own. 

Satur gives line to 3, 5", 6" and 11" houses from its own. 

Lagn gives line to the 3, 6", 10" and 11'" houses from the house of its own. 

The Sun gives lines to the 3" el ai 8" 10", and 11" houses from its own. 

The Moon has 49 lines in total. The lines have been mentioned in the table given below. 


Rekha Sthanas in Chandrashtak Varg (49) 


4 
5 
7 
9 


—_ = 
= © 


Mangalashtaka Varga 


Mars gives auspicious lines to that 1°, 2"°, 4" 7", 8", 10" and 11" houses from the house 
in which it is posited in the horoscope of a person. It means that it gives auspicious lines to 
the Kendera and second, eighth and eleventh signs from the sign it is posited in. Other 
planets give lines from their houses in the following manner. 


Mercury gives line to 3, 5", 6" and 11" houses. 
Jupiter to 6", 10", 11* and 12". 
Venus to 6", 8, 11* and 12". 


Saturn to 1%, 4", 7%, 8, 9" 40" and 11* 
Ascendanti.e. Lagna to 1°", 3°, 6", 10" and 11". 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 3 


The Sun to 3°, 5", 6", 10"and 11%. 
Moonto 3%, 6" and11*. 
Mars has 39 lines in total. See the following table. 


Rekha Sthanas in Manglashtak Varg (39) 


Budhashtaka Varga 


In Budhashtaka Varga, Mercury renders lines to 1°", 3°, 5"", 6"", 9", 10", 11 * and 12™houses 
from its house. 


Jupiter gives line to 6", 8", 11" and 12* houses from its own house. 

Venus to 1%, 2", 3°, 4*, 5", 8", 9* and 11. 

Satum to 1*,2"°, 4*, 7", 8", 9", 10'"and 11*. Ascendantto 1°", 2", 4* ,6'", 8", 10"and 11". 
The Sun to 5", 6", 9", 11" and 12”. 

Moon to 2™, 4*, 6", 8", 10" and 11". 

Mars to 1, 2°97, 4"", 7*, 8*, 9", 10" and 11*. 

The sum total of the lines of Mercury is 54 as mentioned in the table given below. 


Rekha Sthanas in Budhashtak Varg (54) 


4 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Guru Ashtaka Varga 


Jupiter bestows lines to 18", 2", 3°, 4'", 7"" g"". 10and 11"houses from its own house in its 
Ashtaka Varga. Other planets bestow lines in the manner given below. 


Venus gives line to 2", 5", 6", 9*, 10" and 11* houses from its own house. 
Saturn to 3, 5*, 6* and 12* houses. 

Ascendant to 15 2"4, 4'" 5h gin 7m git 4ohand 11" houses. 

The Sun to 1%, 2"%, 3%, 4*, 7", a", 9", 10and 11 * houses. 

Moon to 2", 5*, 7", 9* and 11* houses. 

Mars to 18, 2% 4th 7h gth 40M and 11" houses. 

Mercury to 1%, 2"7, 4", 5"" 6, 9*, 10 and 11" houses. 


The sum total of the lines of Jupiter is 56 as mentioned in the following table. 


Rekha Sthanas in Guru Ashtak Varg (56) 


Ss | oe] ve ol ; 


Shukrashtaka Varga 


In Shukrashtaka Varga, Venus bestows lines to the 1*, 274, 3° 4!" 5" gh go!" 4o%and 11% 
houses. Other planets bestow lines in the following manner. 


Saturn gives lines to the 3, 4", 5*, 8", 9*, 10" and 11" houses from its own. 
g 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 5 


Ascendant to 1°", 2" 37 4*, 5" gi" g* and 11" houses. 
The Sun to 8, 11* and 12* houses 

Moon to 15! 2% 34 4th 5!" git oth 44* and 12* houses. 
Mars to 3%, 5", 6", 9", 11" and 12" houses. 

Mercury to 3" 5” 6", 9"and 11”. 

Jupiter to 5", 8", 9". 10" and 11" houses. 


The sum total of the lines of Venus is 52, which has been mentioned is the table given 
below. 


Rekha Sthanas in Shukrashtak Varg (52) 


Shanyashtaka Varga 

In Shanyashtaka Varga, Saturn gives line to the 3°, 5", 6", and 11" houses. 

Ascendant bestows lines to the 1°, 3, 4", 6, 10" and 11" houses from its own house. 
The Sun to the 1°, 2"7 4*, 7, g'" 10" and 11* houses. 

Moon to the 3", 6* and 11* houses. 

Mars to the 3%, 5", 6*, 10", 11% and 12" houses. 

Mercury to the 6*, 8", 9", 10", 11" and 12* houses. 

Jupiter to 5*, 6"", 11" and 12" houses. 

Venus to 6*,11* and 12* houses 


Saturn has 39 lines in total shown in the table mentioned below. 


6 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Rekha Sthanas in Shanyashtak Varg (39) 


Lagnashtaka Varga 

In Lagnashtak Varga, Lagna gives line to the 3°, 6", 10" and 11* houses from its own 
house. , 

The Sun gives line to the 3%, 4", 6”, 10", 11"and 12 houses. 

Moon to the 3%, 6", 10 and 11 * houses. 

Mars to the 1*, 3°, 6", 10'and 11* houses. 

Mercury to the 1%, 2", 4*,6*, 8*, 10" and 11* houses. 

Jupiter to the 1°", 2", 4, 5*, 6*, 7", 9", 10" and 11™houses. 

Venus to the 1°, 2", 3%, 4!" 5, 8" 9* and 11* houses. 

Saturn to the 1°, 3°, 4", 6", 10 and 11"houses. 

Lagna has 49 lines in total. The lines are shown in the table given below. 


Rekha Sthanas in Laghnashtak Varg (49) 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 7 


After this detailed description of the houses to which the lines are bestowed, the method for 
casting all these Ashtaka Vargas is being given here under by citing an example. The Janma 
Lagna of the native of example horoscope is Taurus. In Lagna, Moon, Mars and Rahu are of 
Taurus, in second, the Sun, Mercury and Venus are of Gemini, in third, Saturn is of Capricorn, 
in sixth, Jupiter of Libra and in seventh house it is Ketu of Scorpio. In all the examples of 
Ashtaka Varga, this particular horoscope has been used. First of all, Ashtaka Vargas from 
Suryashtaka to Lagna Lagnashtaka and Sarvashtaka Vargas are being cast in the following 
manner. 


Example horoscope 


i iPlanet-. ‘ By 


Aries 
Taurus 


Mo.Mars.Lag. 
Sun Mer. Ven. 


Jupiter 


Pisces 
Total 


8 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Example horoscope of Suryashtak Varg 


Taurus | Mo.Mars.Lag 
Sun Mer. Ven. 


Sat. 


Gemini 


Cancer 


Pisces 


Total 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 9 


Example horoscope of Chandrashtak Varg 


ae | Pent [| [Sa 
: 0 0 I 0 | a 4 


Aries I 


Pisces 


Total 


10 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Example horoscope of Mangalashtaka Varga 


Rektras in Budhashtaka Varga 


[ie ios on oa 
| 0) | | i) 4 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 11 


Example horoscope of Budhashtaka Varga 


Jupiter 


Scorpio 
Sagtt. 
Capri. 
Aqua 
Pisces 


Total 


12 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Example horoscope of Guru Ashtaka Varga 


7 Scorpio 
Ketu 


Pisces 


Total 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant * A 13 


Example horoscope of Shukrashtaka Varga 


ear [ee i [ft ow 
\ 0 1 l 0 1 | o 0 4 


Aries 


Mo.Mars.Lag.} 


Taurus 


Gemini } Sun Mer. Ven. 


Cancer Sat. 


Jupiter 


Pisces 


Total 


v 


14 : Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Example horoscope of Shanyashtaka Varga 


4 
Cancer | 
Sat. 


[Sen [Pane [Sn 


Taurus |} Mo.Mars.Lag. 


ce [nis [Pon ve [ee Je Fo 
0 0 | | | | 0 5 


Gemini | Sun Mer. Ven. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 44 


Example horoscope of Lagnashtaka Varga 


6 
Jupl. 
Libra 


A Sarvashtaka Varga is cast by all the Ashtakavargas from Sun to Ascendant. In Sarvashtaka 
Varga, all the lines bestowed to the signs by the planets are considered. For instance in 
aries, there are 4lines in Saryashtaka Varga, 4 in Chandrashtaka Varga, 4 in Mangalashtaka 
Varga, 4in Budhashtaka Varga, 4 in Guru Ashtaka Varga, 6 in Shukra Ashtaka Varga, 4 in 
Shani Ashtaka Varga and 5 in Lagna Asthtaka Varga. The sum total of these lines is 35, 
which will fall in the 12* house in the sign of Aries. The Lagna of Sarvashtaka Varga will be 

_ that of Janma and the planets will also be posited according to Janma. The Sarvashtaka 
Varga is given below. 


“16 . Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Rekhas in Lagnashtaka Varga 


Pisces 


Total 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 17 


Results according to lines 


In prediction by Ashtaka Varga, lines have got their own importance. The more the lines the 
more better will be the results. If lines are four in number, the result will be normal-neither 
benefic nor malefic. Lines less than four give malefic result. The auspiciousness of the 
result enhances according to the growing number of lines more than four. In transit also a 
planet will give much benefic result, if it falls in a house having more lines. But if the house 
has less lines, the planet will give much malefic result. Results according to the lines are 
mentioned here under : 


Line Result 

One line distressing 

Two lines Loss of wealth 

Three lines Depression and affliction 

Four lines Normal (Neither benefic nor malefic) 
Five lines All round prosperity 

Six lines Gain of wealth 

Seven lines Enhancement or gain of wealth 
Eight lines All round prosperity 


There are seven lines there in Aquarius and Pisces in the Sargashtaka Varga of the example 
horoscope. This position of lines indicates enhancement or gain of wealth. So, to start a 
new job while the Sun is in transit in Aquarius and Pisces will prove to be fruitful for the 
native. It is, therefore, advised to make prediction according to the lines while the other planets 
are in transit. Results according to the lines of all the Ashtaka Vargas of the example horoscope 
are mentioned below. 


Results according to the lines in Suryashtaka Varga 


Sign No of lines Results 

Aries 4 Normal 

Taurus 4 Normal 

Gemini "3 Depression and distress 
Cancer 4 Normal 

Leo 5 All round prosperity 

Virgo 1 Distressing 

Libra 4 Normal 

Libra 4 Normal 

Scorpio 3 Depression and affliction 
Sagittarius 3 Depression and affliction 
Capricorn 3 Depression and affliction 
Aquarius 7 Enhancement or gain of wealth 
Pisces 7 Enhancement or gain of wealth 


18 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Results according to the lines in Chandrashtaka Varga 


Sign 
Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Pisces 


No. of lines 


ORAAWODOAARANAHA 


Results 

Normal 

Depression and agony 
Loss of wealth 

Normal 

Normal 

All round prosperity 
Gain of wealth 
Depression and distress 
Normal 

Normal 

Normal 

Gain of wealth 


Results according to lines in Mangalashtaka Varga 


Sign 
Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Capricorn 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Pisces 


No. of lines 


OwNnhO-a hPOw pf oa hA 


Results 

Normal 

Normal 

Distressing 

Normal 

Normal 

Distressing 

All round prosperity 
Normal 

Distressing 

Loss of wealth 
Depression and affliction 
Gain of wealth 


Results according to lines in Budhashtaka Varga 


Sign 
Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Pisces 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


No. of lines 


ON WAWAWOANNN AG 


Results 

Normal 

Gain of wealth 

All round prosperity 

Loss of wealth 

Enhancement or gain of wealth 
Loss of wealth 

Loss of wealth 

Depression and distress 
Depression and distress 
Depression and distress 
Enhancement or gain of wealth 
Gain of wealth 


19 


Results according to lines in Guru Ashtaka Varga 


Results of lines in Shukra Ashtaka Varga 


20 


Sign 
Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 


Pisces 


Sign 
Aries ' 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 

Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 


Pisces 


No. of lines 


oOark FN BO FB ROO A 


No. of lines 


apoann faa aa o 


Results 

Normal 

Depression and distress 
Gain of wealth 

Normal 

Normal x 
All round prosperity 
Normal 

Enhancement or gain of wealth 
Normal 

Normal 

All round prosperity 


Gain of wealth 


Result 

Gain of wealth 

All round prosperity 
Normal 

All round prosperity 
All round prosperity 
All round prosperity 
Normal 

Loss of wealth 
Loss of wealth 

All round prosperity 
Normal 


All round prosperity 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Results of line in Shanyashtaka Varga 


Sign No. of lines Results 

Aries 4 Normal 

Taurus 4 Normal 

Gemini me Distressing 

Cancer 4 Normal 

Leo 2 Loss of wealth 

Virgo 4 Normal 

Libra 3 Depression and affliction 
Scorpio 3 Depression and affliction 
Sagittarius 2 Loss of wealth 
Capricorn 2 Loss of wealth 

Aquarius 4 Normal 

Pisces 6 Loss of wealth 


Results of lines in Lagnashtaka Varga 


Sign No. of lines Results 

Aries 5 All round happiness 
Taurus 3 Depression and distress 
Gemini 3 Depression and distress 
Cancer 7 Enhancement or gain 

Leo 3 Depression and distress | 
Virgo 4 Normal , 
Libra 6 Gain of wealth 

Scorpio 3 Depression and distress 
Sagittarius 1 Distressing 

Capricorn 3 Depression and distress 
Aquarius 5 Depression and distress 
Pisces 6 Gain of wealth 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Rekha and Birsdu Shodhan 


Between lines and points, one happens to be more in number than the other. Subtract 
which one is lesser than the other. The rest will be either the lines or points. If the lines are 
more than the points, the rest number will be the lines. Similarly, if the points are more than 
the lines, the remaining number will be the number the of the points. If the number of lines 
in a house is subtracted from eight, the remaining number will be the number of the points 
in that house. Correction (Shodhar) of lines and points of every:planets of the example 
horoscope is being given here under. 


Rekha and Bindu Shodan of Suryashtak Varga 


Sen _{ | TaujGem} Cant Lol vi. | Uib.{Soort San [Gap | Aw. Lae 


Bindu yog 
shudh rekhas 
shudh bindu 


coe CS 


22 , : Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Rekha and Bindu Shodan of Guru Ashtak Varga 


SN CWB Ss 


Rekha yog 
) 


Sar_|Ar | Teuf6em. [oan | too | vir_[ [Sear | Seo: [oem f Aau: [Pie 


Rekha yog 
4 


Sa 


Bindu yog 
shudh rekhas 
shudh bindu 


> 


Bindu yog 
shudh rekhas 
shudh bindu 


Rekha yog 

Bindu yog "4 
shudh rekhas] 0 

shudh bindu 


Siena Jteufoom [oan [iso] vic [ub. [Boor [seo foam [Aw [Pea] 


Rekha yog 


Bindu yog 
shudh rekhas 
shudh bindu 


4 

4 

0 : 

0 
Prediction by lines : 
Prediction by lines and points are made hereunder. There are some differences in methods 
of making predictions by lines and points in different old scriptures. Here, the best predictions 
taken from some important scriptures such as Vrihad Yavan Jataka, Jaataka Paarijata, 
Hora Ratn, Phal Deepika, Vrihad Parashar Hora Shastra, Jaatakadesh Marg Chandrika, 
Maanasagari etc. are mentioned. It is advised to go through the said scriptures just in case 
more details are needed. The results (or prediction so to say) of the lines and points from one 
to eight of all planets are given below. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 23 


Prediction by the lines of the Sun 


The native enjoys the bliss of elephants, horses, or car, scooter, and company of pretty 
women etc. if the Sun has one line in his horoscope at the time of his birth. He enjoys the 
company of decent people and good health as well, remaining free from diseases. 


Ifthe Sun has two lines, the native becomes favourable to the ruler or the government. He 
emerges victorious over his enemies. Besides being well educated and peace loving , he 
enjoys all round prosperity. He happens to be dignified and earns glory and renown. 


The Sun having three lines gives the native prosperity and wealth. He keeps spending his 
money lavishly and enjoys the company of decent people. He proves to be a man of firm 
character, but his enemies disturb him much. He likes to reside in seclusion. He enjoys 
bliss of gold, son and wealth. 


The native happens to be gentle and gets honour from the people and the ruler as well if the 
Sun in is horoscope has four lines. The Sun makes him pious. But on the other hand the 
Sun makes him a lover of women also. 


Ifthe Sun in the horoscope of the native has five lines, he enjoys gain of cows, buffaloes, 
camels or two or four wheelers etc. He brings honour to his family. He remains devoted to 
the deities and Brahmins ad enjoys the company of nice people. 


The native emerges victorious over his enemies, if the Sun in his horoscope has six lines. 
He enjoys bliss of properity. He earns a grand status in the society he lives in. He is devoted 
to the deities and elders (Gurujans). He enjoys all round prosperity having a grand house. 


According to the Vriddha Yavan Jaataka, the native will have all round prosperity and grandeur 
if the Sun is with six lines in his horoscope. He will earn money with full dignity through legal 
sources. He will get honour from the people in his society. A man of this sort appears to be 
leading. He spends his wealth on religious and altruistic activities. 


The earnings will be sound, if the Sun in his horoscope has seven lines. He will be devoted 
to fierce deities like Shankara, Bhairaya, Hanuman etc. He will be a technologist and kind 
hearted. The same result has been approved by Vriddha Yavana Jataka also. The native will 
get honour and will be influential in the society. He will try to do something for the welfare of 
the world in spite of being devoted to fierce deities. 


The native will have the capacity to ruin his enemies, if the Sun in his horoscope has eight 
lines. He will have bliss of wealth and son etc. He will be an altruist, a recluse and tolerant. 
He will possess all the virtuous qualities. Being devoted to Lord Buddha he will be renowned 
all over. 


Prediction by the points of the Sun 


The native will will like to have company women other than his wife, if the Sun in his horoscope 
has one point. He will be indiscrete and will not have sense of making difference between 
good and evil things. He will be ungrateful, sinful, weak, ill-natured and audacious. He will 
suffer from some ferocious diseases. 


24 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


The native will be deprived of wealth ad prosperity, if the Sun in his horoscope has two 
points. He will be ungrateful and stupid. He will suffer from head and eye problems diseases 
caused by disorder of bile ad chronic fever. 


The Sun with three points deprives the native of wealth and sons etc. He will be unjust, evil 
doer, proud and meek by nature. He will have many enemies around him. 


The Sun having four points speaks of defeat by enemies and insult from the people in the 
society. The person will be self-seeking. He will not have bliss of near and dear ones and 
friends. He will be residing in town or city and will like to have company of women of easy 
virtue. 


Prediction by Rekhas of Moon 


A person having Moon with one line in his horoscope at the time of his birth will reside at holy 
places and will keep going on all sorts of fasts. He will devoted to the Gurus (elders) and 
Brahmins and favorite to the ruler or the government. By nature he will be kind. 


A Moon with two lines augurs that the native will enjoy bliss of valuable means of 
communication such as horses, elephants, cars, scooters etc. He will be a munificent. He 
will lead a happy and fearless life enjoying bliss of gems and jewels. By nature he will be 
kind and peace loving. 


The native will lead a happy and prosperous life, if the Moon situated in his horoscope has 
three lines. He will be virtuous and humble and will get honour from his relatives. He will be 
versed in necromancy and phantasmagoria (Mayajal) etc. 


Moon with four lines posited in the horoscope of a native blesses him with sons and happiness. 
He will be the head of the society ad renowned as well. He will pay respects to others. 
Having all round prosperity he will be interested in building ponds, wells, buildings etc. 


The native having Moon with five lines in his horoscope will be wise and discreet in spite of 
being illiterate. He will be very clever and skilled, and a man of absolute tolerance. His life 
will be full enjoyment and pleasure. His children will keep on extending all hospitality to the 
guest. The Moon in this situation, augurs that his progeny will be well off, skillful and adept. 


Moon with six lines presages that the native will have wife of his choice. He will enjoy bliss 
of sons and wealth. He will be modest, a person of attractive physical constitution and well- 
versed in all the six volumes of the Vedas. He will get honour from the ruler or state o. He will 
be peace loving, having control over his desires and anger. His children will be honoured. 


The wife of the native will be very beautiful if the Moon has seven lines in his horoscope. He 
himself will be humble, brilliant and well versed in the manners of fasts (Vratas and 
Upavasas). He will be a sweet natured fellow having a handsome personality. 


Amoon with eight lies in the horoscope of a native augurs he will be well educated, favourite 
to Brahmins, straight forward, happy and brilliant. He will be hospitable, genius and will 
enjoy all round prosperity. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 25 


Prediction by points of Moon 


The native will be a liar, indulged in evil acts, wretched, disregarded by the members of his 
family, weak and diseased if the Moon in his horoscope has one point. 


Moon with three points cause the native suffer from disorder caused by the excess of 
cough and wind within the system. He will always be fear-stricken. He will be afflicted by the 
ruler and will suffer from dreaded diseases. 


If the Moo posited in the horoscope has four points, the native will be ill-tempered, liar, 
unlucky and will suffer from many diseases. He will keep company with evil people. Four 
points are equal to four lines. So in this case both auspicious and inauspicious results 
prove to be equal, but the inauspicious results should be preferred to auspicious ones. 


The native will be struck by misfortune, defeated by his enemies and deprived of honour 
from the ruler, if the Moon in his horoscope has five points. He will be poor and ill-tempered. 


The native will be deprived of the company of his kiths and kins if the Moon in his horoscope 
has eight points. He will be poor, deprived of wealth. He will be very timid and grief-stricken. 
He will have to bear the brunt of evil effects. 


Prediction by lines of Mars 


The native will have plenty of livestock or vehicles if the Mars in his horoscope has one line 
i.e. itis situated in a one lined sign. He will enjoy a happy life having wealth and land. He will 
have bliss of ancestral property and will enjoy all round prosperity. 


Mars with two lines in the horoscope of a native augurs that he will be very much popular. 
His intellect will be sharp and he will win over his enemies. He will have a big family with a 
wife and many sons, who will prosper. He will be healthy and great. 


The native will have many goods carriers or goods carrying animals like donkeys and camels 
if it the Mars situated in his horoscope has three lines at the time of his birth. He will have all 
round prosperity. He will get what all he desires. He will be very much influential. 


The native will have different types of gains if the Mars in his horoscope has four lines. He 
will be honoured by the ruler and a legal expert or one who can see through into the future). 
He will be a devotee of Brahmins and deities and hence will be happy, rich and fortunate. 


Mars situated in a sign with five lines, saves a man from diseases. he will enjoy bliss of 
wealth and sons. He will have plenty of clothes and all round prosperity. 


Mars posited in a sign with six lines speaks of have good relations with kith and kin. Such a 
native will have bliss of good and delicious food. His enemies will be ruined. The sphere of 
wealth and religion will enhance further. 


The native will be a craftsman or technologist, educated and honoured and benefitted by 
the ruler, if Mars is situated in a sign with seven lines in his horoscope. He will have company 


26 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


of beautiful women. He will get what all he desires and will enjoy bliss of good clothes and 
food. 


Mars situated in a sign with eight lines augurs that the native will reap a rich harvest. It also 
and that the sphere of his business will enhance. The Mars in this position fells of the 
prosperity, glory and grandeur, higher post and progress . Italso indicates that he willl succeed 
in every sphere of life. 


Prediction by points of Mars 


The native will have to live on mercy of others, if Mars is posited in a sign with one point in 
his horoscope at the time of his birth. He will always have paucity of wealth. He will suffer 
from a major eye problem. He will always have want of happiness and loss of intellectual 
power. 


Mars posited in a sign with two points tells of physical ailments, loss of intellectual power 
and loss caused by friends or loss of friends of the native. He suffers theft or a great loss of 
wealth. 


Mars in a sign with three points makes the native unsteady. It causes him insult and affliction. 
Itindicates that the sphere of enemies of the native will enhance further. He will be at odds 
with others and defeated. He will be in company with evil people. 


Mars situated in a sign with four lines causes enmities and disputes with different people. 
The Mars thus situated tells of afflictions and loss that the native will have to face. The 
native will have attraction towards gambling and women of easy virtue. 


Mars posited in a sign with five lines causes affliction due to separation from dear ones. It 
deprives th native of happiness and makes him suffer from tuberculosis or other incurable 
diseases. He has to face loss of the things he likes most and he is deprived of wealth and 
sons. His influence in the community gets giozed. 


Situated in a sign with six points, Mars deprives the native of help and company of nice 
people. The native will be distressed and afflicted due to loss of wealth. He will have to face 
loss in happiness and affliction as well. He will remain wretched. 


The native having Mars in a sign with seven points will suffer from fear of tiny creatures 
living in burrows. He will be indulged in physical lust. He will suffer from eye and tongue 
problems. He will have to face loss caused by thieves or will be deprived of his wealth due 
to his enemies. 


Mars in a sign with eight points deprives the native of bliss of wife. He will suffer from a 
deadly disease. He will be hurt (stuck) by weapons. He will always be disgraced in the 
society. His enemies will deceive him, but in his olden days he will have happiness and 
peace. 


Predictions by lines of Mercury 


If Mercury is situated in a sign with one line, in the horoscope of a native, he will not have any 
enemy. He will be a scholar and discreet. He will have a vast number of friends. He will be 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 27 


a man of good moral character. 


Posited in a sign with two lines the Moon augurs that the native will be unsullied like deities, 
noble and very handsome. He will be dexterous and mild by nature. He will be honoured 
much in the society. 


The native will enjoy royal grandeur having honour from both the ruler and the people, if 
Mercury is posited in a sign with three lines in his horoscope. He will be noble and a legist. 
He will be sweet tongued and straightforward. 


He will keep on performing religious exercises. He will be a ruler or will have enormous 
wealth, His physical constitution will be attractive and he will win over his enemies. 


Situated in a sign with four lines, Mercury forebodes that the native will be well-versed in 
jurisprudence, hospitable and will be a scholar of different scriptures. He will be honoured 
by his dear ones. He will be handsome, intelligent and indulged in religious exercises. 


If in a sign with five lines, Mercury augurs that native will be an owner of a small region, a 
Janapad, or a village. He will possess glory and renown. He will emerge victorious and will 
be enjoying all round prosperity with plenty of wealth. He will be the owner of many villages, 
cities and land. He will have royal grandeur and will be highly posted. 


The native having Mercury in sign with six lines in his horoscope will be solemn, pious, 
educated and polite. He will be grateful for the beneficence done for him. He will be well 
versed in ethics and will win over his enemies. 


The native will be wise, wealthy and prosperous, if Mercury is posited in a sign with seven 
line;:. He will keep going on pilgrimages.-He will have a beautiful wife. He will be mild by 
nature. He will also have bliss of perfumes. His physical constitution will be attractive. 


Mercury posited in a sign having eight lines augurs that the native will have bliss of nice 
apparels. He will have enormous wealth and all kinds of vehicles. He will be honoured 
everywhere and will enjoy bliss of sons and wife. 


Prediction by the points of Mercury 


The native having Mercury in his horoscope in a sign with one point will be a fraudulent and 
evil-natured. He will be deprived of education, wealth and charity besides being malfeasant 
and hypocritical. 


If Mercury is posited in a sign with two points, the native will possess ill-blood in him for his 
near and dear ones. He will be very sad and will siffer from different diseases. He will be 
ungratedful and cruel by nature. . 


The native will lead a dirty and defiled life, if Mercury is posited in a sign with three points in 
his horoscope. He will not bathe regularly. Affliction by the ruler is also on cards. Discord 
with wife and son or sons is possible. He will keep on wearing dirty clothes. 


If Mercury is in a sign with four points, the native will be grief stricken. He will work under 


23 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


some body else as his servant. He will be a malfeasant. He will lead a miserable life and will 
be immodest and impolite. 


Mercury posited in a sign having five by points makes a man suffer from different diseases. 
He will waste his wealth. He will be defeated his enemies. He will be a man of evil nature 
and will lead a miserable life. He will be at odds with the elders (Gurus) and will not have 
faith in deities. He will be deprived of bliss of sons. 


Mercury having six points indicates that the native will lead a miserable life. He will be 
fascinated towards women other than his wife. He will be a pauper and a man of evil thinking. 
He will be notorious as well. 


Mercury with eight points augurs that the native will be amorous and cruel. He will be fond of 
women other than his wife. He will be restless and indulged in gambling. He will not be 
straightforward. 


Prediction by the lines of Jupiter 


Jupiter with one line posited in the horoscope of the native at the time of his birth indicates 
that he will be pious and will keep on performing spiritual exercises. Being noble, he will 
lead the society. He will be devoted to his religion and Brahmins. His wisdom will be sharp. 


The native will be noble, wise, rich, happy and will earn honour from the state if Jupiter in his 
horoscope has two lines. His physical constitution will be attractive and he will earn name 
and fame. 


The native having Jupiter with three lines will earn plenty of money and will lead the oct: 
He will enjoy bliss of progeny. He will be highly posted and the head of the family. He will t:<: 
an altruist. 


Jupiter with four lines makes the native wealthy and prosperous. He will earn honour from 
wise people. He will be very prudent, pious and wealthy. 


The native with Jupiter having five lines will be a man of loving nature. He will have bliss of 
sons. He will be virtuous and indulged in spiritual exercises. 

Jupiter with six lines makes the native popular among the people. He will have no animosity 
for others and his behavior with them will be cordial. He will be loving to the elders and 
deities and will ruin his enemies. He will lead his life with full dignity. He will be calm and cool 
and will pay respect to the elders. He will be modest as well. 

The native will have company of the elders and pretty women, if Jupiter in his horose7x" 
has seven lines. He will be eloquesnt and devoted to the deities. 


The native will be hospitable, a ruler, an officer or a leader, if the Jupiter in his horoscope has 
eight lines. He will be well versed in scriptures and skilled in arts. He will be a scholar and 
valiant as well. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant , 29 


Prediction by the points of Jupiter. 


Jupiter with one point posited in a sign augurs that the native will suffer from different diseases. 
He will be merciless, ungrateful aliar, dirt loving, greedy and cruel by nature. He will be 
afflicted and indulged in evil acts. 


The native having Jupiter with two points will be hard of hearing and will suffer from troubles 
emerged due to deafness. By nature, he will be a thief and will suffer from fear of the ruler. 
He will have injuries on his body caused by the people he lives with. Some diseases will 
pass on to him from others. 


The native will be ill fated if he has Jupiter with three points in his horoscope. He will be 
company of women other than his wife. He will be ungrateful and poor. As stated in Vriddha 
Yavan, he will be lazy and unfriendly also. 


The native will have a vast number of enemies if he has Jupiter with four points. His mental 
disposition unsteady. Mental ailments are also possible. Crooked by nature, he will suffer 
from scabies. He will have paucity of wealth. 


Jupiter with five points makes the native a thief. He will be grief-stricken. He have fascination 
for women other than his wife, and will suffer from scabies and fever. He will have to lead an 
afflicted and troubled life. 


The native having Jupiter with six lines will be poor and miserable. He will be grief-stricken 
and will have no interest in religious acts. He will be deprived of bliss of sons and wife. He 
will go abroad to reside there. He will not be able to lead a peaceful life and will remain away 
from home and will suffer from eye problems.- - 


The native will have many enemies if the Jupiter posited in his horoscope has seven points. 
He will always think like a rancour. He will suffer from spleen problem, fever and disorder 
caused by excess of cough in the system, 


The native will be vainglorious and crooked if Jupiter in his horoscope has eight lines. He will 
suffer from fear of the government. He will bring bad name to his family. He will always be 
suffering from different diseases and will be weak by physique and heart. 


Prediction by the lines of Venus 


Venus with one line speaks of prosperity. A person having Jupiter with one line will have 
control over the generative organs. His physical constitution will be attractive. He will be a 


munificent. By nature he will be grateful, devout and gentle. He will never have dearth of 
edibles. 


The native will be prosperous if Venus situated in his horoscope has two lines. He will be 
popular, virtuous and handsome. By nature, he will be modest besides being a legist and a 
man of keen observation. 


Venus with three lines makes the native intelligent. He will have a fine grasping power. He 


30 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


will have plenty of ornaments. He will keep on performing spiritual exercises and will be 
devoted to Brahmins and the deities. He will lead his life fearlessly. 


The native will be very prosperous if Venus posited in his horoscope has four lines. He will 
flourish in the trade of gems like cat's eye and pearl. He will have no dearth of wealth and 
potable items. He will be very intelligent and will enjoy prosperity and grandeur. 


The native will be well versed in every stream of education, if he has Venus with six lines in 
his horoscope. He will have vast number of friends. He will be skilled in arts and will enjoy 
bliss of a beautiful wife and prosperity. He will be a scholar having an attractive physique. 


Venus with seven lines posited in the horoscope of the native augurs that he will lead a 
prosperous life having precious articles like saffron and many more. He will enjoy all round 
prosperity and will get honour from the ruler and people. 


The native will be renowned and pious. His physical constitution will be attractive. He will 
have different types of benefits. His acts will be serene. 


Prediction by the points of Venus 


Venus with one point in the horoscope of a person augurs that he will be diseased. By 
nature he will be sinful and will stay away from gentle people. He will keep company with 
people of easy virtue. He will be deprived of sons and prosperity and will get affliction from 
the government. 


The native having Venus with two points will stay away from his relatives. He will have a vast 
sphere of desires and will suffer from different diseaseds. He will be afflicted by his enemies 
and will remain grief-stricken. He will keep on spending his money lavishly. 


The enemies of the native will defeat him if Venus posited in his horoscope has three points. 
He will be deprived of honour, but will have bliss of wife. He will always be disregarded by 
others. He will suffer from fever time and again and will wear dirty clothes. 


The native will have a big family if Venus in his horoscope has four points. He will have to 
spend much of his money on his family that will keep him perturbed. He will work as a 
servant. He will be a pauper, deprived of wealth and property and hence a grief stricken. 


Venus with five points in the horoscope of a native causes him defeat. He will have company 
of evil people; hence will lose his property. He will be at odds with gentle people and his 
relatives. He will lead a miserable life. 


The native will be a mendacious if the Venus he has in his horoscope is with six points. He 
will be deprived happiness. People around him will torture him. He will reside away from his 
home and will keep on begging. He will not have a sense of love for others. 


The native will suffer from disorder caused by the excess of cough, wind etc. in the system, 
if the Venus posited in his horoscope has seven points. Venus thus posited augurs that he 
will be a nitwit and indulged in evil acts. He will be ungrateful as well. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 31 


The native will always be worried and will keep on performing evil acts, if he has Venus with 
eight points in his horoscope. He will be diseased. He will have a vast number of enemies and 
will be abandoned by his relatives. He will be a man of evil nature besides being ungrateful. 


Prediction by the lines of Saturn 


If the Saturn posited in the horoscope of the native has one line, he will be firm and unwavering. 
He will get honour from the people. He will be hard working and gentle by nature. He will like 
good apparels and ornaments to put on. He will be hospitable. 


The native will have all round prosperity, if he has Saturn with two lines in his horoscope. He 
will be stout and free from dreaded diseases. His enemies or common diseases will aslo 
not be disturbing him. So, he will be healthy both physically and mentally. 


The native will not have many sons if Saturn posited in his horoscope has three lines. He 
will have either goods carrying animals like donkeys, camels etc. or vehicles of all kinds. 
He will earn benefit in the business related with vehicles. He will earn benefit in iron trade 
also. He will enjoy company of a vast number of people. He will be highly educated, pious 
and well-versed in Vedas and other scriptures. 


The native will be handsome, if Saturn in his horoscope has four lines. He will keep on using 
aromatic articles like camphor etc. He will have bliss of sons. He will be well-off and happy 
and will enjoy all round prosperity. He will be pious also. 


The native having Saturn with five lines in his horoscope will be renowned. He will be 
fascinated towards women and will have no enemies. He will progress with the help of the 
state. He will be noble, hard working and prosperous. 


The native having Saturn with six lines in his horoscope will be a man of word. He will earn 
honour from the state or ruler. He will be rich, prosperous, influential and a legist. 


The native will be conversant with different categories and sub-categories of female 
characters mentioned in Indian Poetics, if Saturn in his horoscope has seven lines. He will 
be very resolute and steady and will earn name and fame all over. He will be adept in arts. 
His will be a pleasing personality. 


Saturn with eight lines presages that the native will lead a very luxurious life. He will be adept 
in ethics and well versed in the Vedas. He will enjoy bliss of wife and sons. 
Result according to the points of Saturn 


Saturn with one point causes destitution to the native. He is punished by the ruler. In this 
state of Saturn the native happens to be cruel and earns disgrace in the society he lives in. 
He may suffer from physical ailment. He will have to face endless distresses. 


Saturn with two points presages that the native will be miser. He will be ill spoken and 
unsteady. Saturn in this state also augurs that the native will suffer from indigestion and 
bone problem. He will be a man of sinful nature. 


32 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


The native having Saturn with three points has to face problems caused by the people of 
the society he lives in. He will be a pilferer, merciless, a liar and evil doer. He will be a gluton 
and his progeny will be cruel. 


ifthe native has Saturn with four points, he will be ill-natured having a bent of hostility. He will 
be immoral and will abnegate his family tradition. Besides, he will keep on donating things to 
unworthy fellows. He will not be able to complete what all he undertakes. 


The native will suffer from fever and will earn disrespect from the people he lives with. He 
will have a very few or no friends. He will be fascinated towards the women other than his 
wife. His sons will have to face distress. 


Satum with six points augurs that the native will be indlulged in sinful acts. He will have a 
number of enemies and will be grief stricken. Persons having Saturn in this state will be 
fascinated towards women other than their wives. The native will be fear-strichen. Physically. 
very weak, he will suffer from diseases in his posteriors and eyes. 


A dead baby will be born to the native if he has Saturn with seven lines. He will not have bliss 
of kith and kin and his enemies will be dominant. He will renounce his farnily tradition and 
will be abandoned by the members of his family. He will suffer from different diseases. 


The native will go abroad to reside there if Saturn in his horoscope has eight lines. He will 
suffer from different diseases and will keep on begging. He will be a pauper. He will suffer 
from bilious ailment and will keep company with mean people. 


ooo 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 33 


2. Trikon Shodhan 
(Trikon Shodhan ) 


Sarvashataka Varg is rectified after itis cast. There are two methods of Shodhan rectification: 
1. Trikon Shodhan 2. Rectification of Ekadhipatya 

Trikon Shodhan -There are four trines (Trikonas) in the horoscope of a person: 

1. Aries, Leo, Sagilttarius 

2. Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn 

3. Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 

4. Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 


Rules for Trikon Shodhan : 


1. The lowest number of lines of a sign in Trikon should be subtracted from the rest of the 
three signs in it and then the result thus obtained should be written. 


2. |fany of the signs in Trikon (trine) has no line, the lines of the rest of the signs will remain 
the way they are. 


3. Ifthe numbers of lines of all the three signs are equal, the residue of all the three will be 
Zero after Trikon Shodhan . 


Example: 
Let us have a look at Suryashtaka Varga of example horoscope, in which Aries has 4 lines, 


Leo has 5 and Sagittarius has 3. So, the 3 lines of Sagittarius should be subtracted from 4 
of Aries and 5 of Leo. The calculation is shown here under: 


Aries Leo Sagittarius 


4 5 3 
3 3 3 
1 2 0 


Rectification of other trines should be made the same way as shown below : 


34 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Rectification of Suryashatak Varga Trine 


First Trine Second Trine Third Trine Fourth Trine 
Ari. Leo Sagftt. Tau. Vir. Capri. Ge. Lib. Aqua. Can.Sco. Pisc. 
4 5 3 4 1 #3 3 4 7 4 3 7 
3 3 3 - 4 1 1 3 3 3 3 3 3 


1 2 0 3 0 2 0 1 4 1 0 4 


Suryashtak Varga after recitif ication of trine 


4 
0 Aqua 
Scorpio 


Rectification of Chandrashtak Varga Trine 


First Trine Second Trine Third Trine Fourth Trine 
Ari. Leo Sagtt. Tau. Vir. Capri. Ge. Lib. Aqua. Can.Sco. Pisc. 
4 4 4 3 5 4 2 6 4 4 3 6 
4 4 4 3 3 3 2 2 2 3 3 #3 


0 0 0 0 2 1 oO 4 2 1 0 3 
Chandrashtak Varga after Trikon Shodhan 


po [o= [rm [on [nf] a] 8] ow [nr 
reknas | o Lolo | |olets} oJ oti t-ls | 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 35 


Chandrashtak Varga horoscope after Trikon Shodhan 


Gem. Ven. 
gun 0 
jerc, 
Q Tau 


Rectification of Mangalashtak Varga Trine 


First Trine Second Trine Third Trine Fourth Trine 
Ari. Leo Sagitt. Tau. Vir. Capri. Ge. Lib. Aqua. Can.Sco. Pisc. 
4 4 1 4 1 2 1 5 3 4 4 6 
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 4 4 4 


3 3 60 3 0 1 0 4 2 0 0 2 


Mangalashtak Varga after Trikon Shodhan 


sah em ost a [|| | 
fates | 2 | fo fo fafof «| of o] s | 


36 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Rectification of Budhashtak Varga trine 


First Trine Second Trine Third Trine Fourth Trine 
Ari. Leo Sagtt. Tau. Vir. Capri. Ge. Lib. Aqua. Can.Sco. Pisc. 
4 7 8 6 2 3 5 6 7 2 3 6 
3 3. 3 2 2.2 5 5 5 2 2 2 
1 4 0 4 0 1 0 1 2 0 1 4 


Budhashtak Varga after Trikon Shodhan 


Bn [oFnfon|ifo | ee] cw Taw] 
Sore Pn a sO YD a 


Budhashtak Varga horoscope after Trikon Shodhan 


0 Cancer 4 Taurus 
Sat. Mars 
0 Q 
Gemini 


Rectification of Guru Ashtak Varga trine 


First Trine Second Trine Third Trine Fourth Trine 
Ari. Leo Sagtt. Tau. Vir. Capri. Ge. Lib. Aqua. Can.Sco. Pisc. 
4 4 4 3 5 4 6 4 5 4 7 6 


4 4 4 6. 3° 3 4 4 4 4 4 4 
0 oO 0 Gs See ie oe SS 


Guru Ashtak Varcla after Trikon Shodhan 


femtes | o | o[ | ofeofefo] fe] is 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Guru Ashtak Varga horoscope after Trikon Shodhan 


nes 


0 ie] 
Scorpio au. Mah 
Ketu Moo. 


Rectification of Shukrashtak Varga trine 


First Trine Second Trine Third Trine Fourth Trine 
Ari. Leo Sagtt. Tau. Vir. Capri. Ge. Lib. Aqua. Can.Sco. Pisc. 
6-5 2 5 5 65 4 4 4A 5 2 5 
2 2 2 5 5 5 4 4 4 2 2 2 


4 3.0OC«OO 0 an Y 0 a 3 0 63 


Shukrashtak Varga horoscope after Trikon Shodhan 


[me [on em ine] Seno [oe 
pl Lelelebelelel lolol; 


38 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Shanyashtak Varga 
Rectification of Shanyashtak Varga trine 


First Trine Second Trine Third Trine Fourth Trine 
Ari. Leo Sagtt. Tau. Vir. Capri. Ge. Lib. Aqua. * Can.Sco. Pisc. 
4 2 2 4 4 2 1 3 4 4 3 6 
2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 3 3 3 


2 0 0 2 2 0 0 2 3 1 0 3 


Shanyashtak Varga after Trikon Shodhan 


Foor owt] [som [rm 
Piet esteLalsleleia. 


Shanyashtak Varga horoscope after Trikon Shodhan 


NSH Ven. 


Lagnashtak Varga 


First Trine Second Trine Third Trine Fourth Trine 
Ari. Leo Sagtt. Tau. Vir. Capri. Ge. Lib. Aqua. Can.Sco. Pisc. 
5 3 1 3 4 3 3 6 5 7 3 6 


1 1 4 8 8 8 3 3 3 8 383 8 
4 2 0 0 1 «0 0 3 2 4 0 8 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 39 


Lagnashtak Varga after Trikon Shodhan 


0 Geri. Ven. 
un Mer, 
4 . 
Taurus 


/ Libra 


Sarvashtak Varga after Trikon Shodhan 


40 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Sarvashtak Varga horoscope Trikon Shodhan 


SEX 
or 


Ekadhipety Shodhan is done after Trikon Shodhan . It is based on planets and their signs. It 
is done only of the planets who are the lords of two signs. So,the Ekadhipaty Shodhan of the 
Sun and the Moon is not reqired as they are the lords of only one sign each. No Ekadhipaty 
Shodhan of Cancer and Leo is required since the Sun and the Moon are the lords of the two. 


Ekadhipaty Shodhan 


A list of signs and their lords is mentioned below for the convenience of the students. 


Sign Lord 
Aries Mars 
Taurus Venus 
Gemini Mercury 
Cancer Moon 
Leo Sun 
Virgo Mercury 
Libra Venus 
Scorpio Mars 
Sagittarius Jupiter 
Capricorn Saturn 
Aquarius Saturn 
Pisces Jupiter 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant At 


Rules for Ekadhipatya Shodhan 


Barring the Sun and Moon, Ekadhipatya Shodhan of rest five planets i.e. Mars, Mercury, 
Jupiter, Venus and Satum is considered. Shodhan rectification of the Sun and Moon is not 
needed because both have only one sign each. On the other hand, every of the rest of the 
planets is the lord of two signs and that is why the Ekadhipatya Shodhan of these planets is 
essential to be performed. Among these five planets, the signs of Mars are Aries and Scorpio, 
Gemini and Virgo of Mercury, Sagittarius and Pisces of Jupiter, Taurus and Libra of Venus 
and Capricorn and Aquarius are the sings of Satum. Therefore, Ekadhipatya Shodhan of 
these ten signs is considered. The Ekadhipatya Shodhan is done in the following manner. 


1. Subtract the lines from the lines of the sign having planet in it after Trikona Shodhan 
(Trikon Shodhan ) and write it down the sign having no planet, if there is a planet in any of 
the two sings of a planet. Also write the lines below a sign with a planet found after rectification 
of its trine. 


2. Asign without a planet and having less lines is not considered and Zero is written below 
it. Lines will be there in a sign with a planet the way they are. 


3. The Ekadhipatya Shodhan will not be considered, if both the signs have planets in them. 
The lines found after rectification trine will be there in their original position. 


4. Zero should be written below the signs if they have no planet and their number of lines is 
equal found after Trikon Shodhan . 


5. If the signs have no planet and if the lines in them are less than needed, then the sum 
total of the lines of a sign should be subtracted from that which is more than it. The 
number thus obtained should be written below the sign having lines more than the other 
whereas zero should be written below that having less lines. 


6. If any of the two signs has no planet and if the Sum totals of lines of both the sings are 
found equal after Trikon Shodhan then the lines of the sign with a planet will be written 
the same way and zero (0) will be written below the sign having no line. 


7. No Ekadhipatya Shodhan will be considered, if there is zero (0) in one of the signs and 
lines there in the other. In this condition lines and zero (0) will be written the way they are. 


8. Ekadhipatya Shodhan of Leo and Cancer will not be considered. In this case, lines and 
Zero will be written in their original position. 


Parashar Theory 


1. If there is no planet in any of the two signs, then the number less than that of the other 
should be subtracted from the greater one and then the number thus obtained should 
be written below the greater number. The lesser one should be left as it is. 


2. If any of the two signs has a planet and the number of lines of the sign with planet is 
lesser than that of the sign having no planet, then the number of lines of the sign having 
a planet should be subtracted from the number greater than it. The number thus found 


42 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


shouldb be written below the sign without a planet. The lesser number should be left as 
itis. 
3. Ifthe number of lines of any of the signs with a planet is greater and of that having no 


planet is lesser, then zero (0) should be written below the sign without a planet and that 
of the sign having a planet should be kept as it is. 


4. Rectification is not required if both the signs have planets. Therefore, the number should 
be left in their real form. 


5. If any of the signs is with a planet and the other has none and the numbers of lines of 
both the signs are equal, then zero should be written below the sign without planet and 
the number below the sign having planet will be there in its real form. 


6. If both the signs with or without planets or if any of them has a planet and the other has 
none, but if there is zero in any of the two then zero will be there in both the signs. 


7. The Ekadhipatya Shodhan of the signs of Cancer and Leo is not required. 


Here, the theory mentioned is Phal Deepika in given below. This particular theory has been 
applied in the example horoscope. 


Theory mentioned in Phal Deepika by Mantreshwar. 


After Trikon Shodhan , the couples of the signs such as Aries-Scorpio, Taurus-Libra, Gemini- 
Virgo, Sagittarius Pisces and Capricorn-Aqurius will have lines in the following manner. 


One sign Other sign 
With Planet With Planet 

1. Equal lines Equal lines 

2. More lines Less lines 

3. More lines Zerg line (no line) 
4. Zero line Zero line 

Without Planet Without Planet 
5. Equal lines Equal lines 

6. More lines Less lines 

7. More lines Zero line 

8. Less lines More lines 

9. Zero line More lines 

10. Zero line Zero line 


Sign without Planet 


11. Equal lines 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Sign without planet 


Equal lines 


43 


12. More lines Less lines 
13. More lines Zero line 
14. Zero line Zero line 


Zero means that there is no line. Rules for Ekadhipatya Shodhan are given beiow. 


a. Inthe order of 1.2.3.4.7.9.10.13.14, no rectification (Shodhan) is requaired. The number 
of lines is not changed. 


b. All the lines in the sign without Planet shouldbe removed from it, if the situation of lines 
is there as mentioned in the 5 “ or 6" point stated above. No change is allowed in the 
number of the Jines in the sign having planet. 


c. Ifthe situation is what it is stated in the 8" point above, then the lines in the sign without 
planet should be the same as they are in the sign with planet. The number of lines in the 
sign with planet will not be changed. 


d. Ifthe situation is what it is stated in point 11 above, then lines should be removed from 
both the signs and 0 (zero) should be written there. 


e. Ifthe situation is as mentioned in point 12, then the number of lines of the sign having 
more than the other should be equalized to that of having less lines. 


Suryashtak Varga Ekadhipatya Shodhan 
+ There is no planet either in Aries or in Scorpio. No Ekadhipatya Shodhan will be worked 


out according it No. 13 situation since there is one line in Aries and no line in Scorpio. 
Therefore, digits 1 and 0 (Zero) will be written in Aries and Scorpio respectively. 


* There are planets both in Taurus and Libra. There are 3 lines in Taurus and 1 in Libra. 
Therefore, no Ekadhipatya shodhan will be worked out according to No. 2 situation and 
digits 3and 1, should be placed in Taurus and Libra respectively. 


* There is planet in Gemini but none in Virgo. There is zero (0) in both the signs. Therefore 
.digit zero will be written in both the signs according to No. 10 situation. 


* No Ekadhipatya Shodhan is considered for cancer and Leo. Therefore, there will be no 
change in the number of line (s) of both the signs. 


* There is o (Zero) in Sagittarius and 4 in Pisces and there is no planet in any of the two. 
Therefore, no Ekadhipatya. Shodhan will be worked out according to No. 13 situation and 
digits zero (0) and 4 should be written in Sagittarius and Pisces respectively. 


* No planet is there in Capricom and Aquarius. The number of lines in Capricorn is lesser 
than that of Aquarius. Therefore, digit 2 will be written in both the signs according to No. 12 
situation. 


After Ekadhipatya Shodhan, Surya Ashtak Varga will be as follows. 
Chandrashtak Varga 


44 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


According to No. 14 situation, digit zero (0) will be written there in both Aries and Scorpio, 
Suryashtak Varga after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 
pin _[ fon em fi wos] se] ss] em [awe 
fpews | toto fs fefofa} obs Pe fede 


Suryashtak Varga Ekadhipatya Shodhan Horoscope 


Taur. Mars 
Ne 
Gemini 3 
Ven. Sun 
Mer. 
no 
Scorpio’ 


if they have no planet and if there is zero in them. 


* If there are planets in Taurus and Libra both and if there is zero in Taurus and 4 in Libra, 
then according to the 3° situatuon stated above no change will be made in the numbers 
of both the signs. 


* Gemini has a Planet, but Virgo has none. In this case, no rectification (Shodhan) is 
requaired according to No. 9 situation, since Virgo has lines but Gemini has none. 
Therefore, zero will be written in Gemini whereas 2 lines in Virgo. 


* There will be 1 line in cancer and zero in Leo and no change will be made in this case. 


* There is no planet in Sagittarius and Pisces. Sagittarius has zero (0) and Pises has 3 
lines. Therefore, Zero (0) will be there in Sagittarius and 3 lines in Pisces according to No. 
13situation. : 


* There is no planet in Capricom and Aquarius. Capricom has 1 line whereas Aquarius 
has 2. Therefore, 1.line should be there in each of the two signs according to No. 12 
situation. 


Mangalashtak Varga 
* There are 3 lines in Aries whereas none in Scorpio and there is no planet in any of the two. 


Chandrashtak Varga after Trikon Shodhan 


Gn [fon em nor] oo] a] a [ar 
reel PPL Pb 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 45 


Chandrashtak Varga Horoscope after Trikon Shodhan 


There fore, Ekadhipatya Shodhan is not required according to rule 13. 

There are planets in both Taurus and Libra. There are 3 lines in Taurus and 4 in Libra. 
Therefore, Ekadhipatya Shodhan will not be considered according to rule 2. 

There are planets in Gemini but there is none in Virgo. According to rule 10 Ekadhipatya 
Shodhan is not required since there is zero in both the sings. 

There is no line in Cancer whereas 3 in Leo. Ekadhipatya Shodhan of Cancer and Leo 

is not required. 

There is no Planet either in Sagittarius or in Pisces. There is no line in Sagittarius but there are 
2 in Pisces. Therefore, according to rule 12, 4 line should be mentioned in each of the two 
houses. 


There is no planet either in Capricorn or in Aquarius. Capricorn has 1 line whereas 
Aquarius has 2. Therefore, 1 line will be written in each. 


Budhashtak Varga 


Both Aries and Scorpio have no planet and they have equal number of lines. Therefore, 


Manglashtak Varga after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 


Sion [Mt [FouGem: [oon [te [ium] Seo] ea Go. [Ae [Foe 
Rekhas | 3 | of o Lo tsatol|s| of of 1 |i | 2 | 


46 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


zero will be mentioned in both the signs according to rule 11 mentioned earlier. 


There are planets in Taurus and Libra both. There are 4 lines in Taurus and 1 in Libra. 
Therefore, no rectification (Shodhan) is required and the lines will remain the way they 
are. 


There is a planet in Gemini but none in Virgo. There is zero in the houses of both the 
signs. Therefore, zero should be mentioned in both of them according to rule 4. 


There is no line in Cancer whereas there are 4 in Leo. The position of line or lines in the 
houses of both the signs will remain the same. 


Sagittarius and Pisces have no planets. Sagittarius has no line but Pisces has 4. 
Therefore, according to rule 13 mentioned earlier, no rectification (Shodhan) is required/ 


Capricorn and Aquarius have no planet. Capricorn has 1 line whereas Aquarius has 2. 
Therefore, according to rule 12, 1 line should be mentioned in each of the two. 


Budhashtak Varga after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 


Sign Ari. Tau. Gem. Can. Le Vir. Lib, Sco. Sag. Cap. Aqu. Pisc. 


Rekhas 0 4 0 0 4 o 1 0 0 1 1 4 


Budhashtak Varga Horoscope after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 


0 Cancer 4 Taurus 
Sat. 5 Mars 
0, 
Gemini 


Guru Ashtak Varg 


Aries and Scorpio have no planets. Aries has no line whereas Scorpio has 3. According 
to rule 13, no rectification is required. 


Taurus and Libra have planets but there is no line with any of the two. Therefore, according 
to rule 4, no line will be mentioned in the house of any of the two signs. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 47 


Gemini has a planet whereas Virgo has none. Both the signs have equal number of 
lines. Therefore, according to rule 5, lines of the sign having no planet will be removed, 
but lines with Gemini will be there the way they are. 


- No line will be there in the houses of Cancer and Leo, if there is no line with any of the 
two. 


* There is no planet in the houses Sagittarius and Pisces are posited in. Sagittarius has 
no line whereas Pisces has two. Therefore according to rule 13, no rectification is 
requaired 


* Capricom and Aquarius have no planet. The two signs have equal number of lines. 
Therefore, according to rule 11, zero should be mentioned there in both the signs. 


Guru Ashtak Varga after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 
Sign Ari. Tau.Gem. Can. Le. Vir. Lib. Sco. Sag. Cap. Aqu. Pisce. 


Rekhas o -o0 2 ft) 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 2 


Guru Ashtak Varga Horoscope after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 


Shukrashtak Varga 


Aries and Scorpio have no planet. There are 4 lines with Aries but none with Scorpio. No 
rectification is required according to rule 13. 


Taurus and Libra have Planets with them. But zero will be mentioned in the houses of 
the two as they have no line. 


Gemini has planets whereas Virgo has none. None of the two has any line, Therefore, 
zero should be put in the houses of both the signs. 


Both cancer and Leo have 3 lines each. The position of the lines will remain the same. 


There is no planet with Sagittarius and Pisces. Sagittarius has no line whereas Pisces 
has 3. The position of the lines will be the same according to rule 13. 


Capricom and Aquarius have no planet. There is no line with any of the two signs. 
Therefore zero should be put in the houses they are posited in. 


48 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Shukrashta Vagrga after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 


Son [of en J [won] Sex] So cn [a | 
SADA 


Shukrashtak Varga Horoscope after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 


0 
Gemi. 
Ven. Sun 
Mer. 

0) 

Lib 

. Aqua. 
0 
rpio 


0 
VEN 
Shanyashtaka Varga 


* Aries and Scorpio do not have a planet. There are two lines in Aries. Whereas as zero is 
there in Scorpio. 


* Taurus and Libra have planets with them Both of them have equal number of line. They 
will be the same as mentioned in rule 1. ‘ 


* Gemini is with a planet whereas there is no planet in Virgo. In Gemini there is Zero and in 
virga there are two lines. The lines will be the way they are as stated in rule 9. 


* In cancer, there is one line whereas in Leo there is-zero. They will be in the same 
position as they are. 


* There is no planet in Sagittarius and Pisces. In Sagittarius, there is zero whereas there 
are three lines in Pisces. Arrange them the sare way according to rule13. 


* Capricorn and Aquarius are without planet. There is zero in Capricorn but there are lines 
in Aquarius. The lines will remain the way they are according to rule 13. 


Shanyashtak Varga after Ekadhipatya Shodhan 


Can. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant : 49 


Shanyashtak Varga Horoscope after Ekadhipatya 


Lagnashtaka Varga 


Aries and Scorpio have no planet. There are 4 lines there in Aries but zero in Scorpio. 
Arrange them the same way as mentioned in rule 13. 


Taurus and Libra have planets in them. There is zero in Taurus but in Libra there are 3 
lines. Arrange them according to rule 3. 


Gemini is with planets, whereas there is no planet in Virgo. In Gemini, there is zero and 
in Virgo, there is only one line. Follow the rule 9 to arrange the lines. 


There are 4 lines in Cancer and 2 in Leo. They will remain the same. 


Sagittarius and Pisces have no planet. Sagittarius has zero whereas Pisces has 3 
lines. Arrange them the same way as stated in rule 13. 


Capricom and Aquarius have no planet. There is zero in Capricorn and 2 lines in Aquarius. 
Keep them as stated in rule 13. 


Lagnashtak Varga after IEkadhipatya Shoeihan 


50 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


After Ekadhipatya Shodhan, Sarvashtaka Varga will be as follows: 


Method of further calculation is given hereafter. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 51 


3. Rashi Gunak 


Multiplicative (Gunak) of sign is cast after Trikon Shodhan (Trikon Shodhan) and Ekadhipatya 
Shodhana. Multiplicative number of every sign is fixed and shown below. 


Sign Multiplicative 
Aries 7 
Taurus 10 
Gemini 8 
Cancer 4 
Leo 10 
: Virgo 5 
Libra 7 
Scorpio : 8 
Sagittarius 9 
Capricorn 5 
Aquarius 11 
Pisces 12 


Lines obtained after Ekadhipatya Shodhana are used to draw out the zodiacal factors. 


For instnace, in Suryashtaka Varga, aries has one line. Now, the sum total comes to be 7, 
if the number is multiplied by 7, the Rashi Gunakof Aries. Therefore, in Suryashtaka Varga, 
the Rashi Gunakof Aries will be 7. Where there is a Zero, the sum total will be zero. Rasi 
Pindas of example horoscopes cited earlier are given hereunder mentioining there in lines 
obtained after Ekadhipatya Shodhan. 


Suryashtaka Varga Factor 


San a ems a io 


EN NN 
resiGnatat we] ef = |olel7felelstalel || 


sesnrs [toto L« fefetrlelelet=l@le 


52 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


By this calculation, the Rasi Pinda of Suryashtaka Varga comes to be 148. 


Chandrashtaka Varga Factor 


EC AS 


Ea ae 
RestiGmnaxael 7 [wo] [= pols! cn 


ea CR ce eS 


By the aove calculation, the Rasi Pinda of Chadrashtaka Varga comes to be 9 


aE 
= 
= 
= 
ie 


BR 


Managalashtaka Vagra factor 


Sion_| Art frou Gem Can e-Lvir [nfSeo see Icep. 
Ce oe ee ee 


frashiGurakank 7 [wo 3 [| « [of st7[sl os 
fRastirind for fo | o | o Joo} ofajojo)s 


By the calculation made above, the Rasi Pinda of Mangalashtak Varga)comes to be 119. 


Budhashataka Verga 


sign ari Tau.]Gem. | can.| te.[ vir] tip sco.|saq,|cap. | agu.| 
Jera.Retres | of «| o | of «fof sto] eo: 
RestiGunakAnk| 7] vj ie | « [ol st rte | 

Rashi Pind | of «] o | o | wo 7| o | 


The Rasi Pinda of Budhashtaka Varga is 151. 
; Guru Ashtaka Varga 


mE 
eee oa eae 
2 ane 
pols} 7{ stots {tu 
oe Ae 


The Rasi Pinda of Guru Ashtaka Varga is 64. 
Shukra Ashtaka Varga 


Rashi | Rashi Gunak Ank | Ank[ 7 | etapa pape pape pe 
Ec aa ea a 109 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 53 


The Rasi Pinda of Shukrashtaka Varya is 106 
Shanyashtaka Varga 


(Sign [ars [Tau] Gem, [Can.[ be. | vir [tib Seo [Sag ap, 
|Eka.Rekhas [2 | 2] o | 1 |ol2{2l{ol|o| o | 
[RastiGunakéne[ 7 [wo] a |» |ols[7]elels| 
Perel ee ere ol re ee 


The Rasi Pinda of Shanyashtaka Varga is 131 
Lagnashtaka Varga 


Sign [ar ]Taw | Gem. | Can-| Le [vir] Lb [Sco [Sag 
Caos eb es (62140. | 
RashiGunakAnk 7 | 1 | « | 4 || 5] 7|[ a | 9 | 
Eegene atheros gett lealan coe 


The Rasi Pinda of Lagnashtaka Varga is 148. 
Now, to find out the Rashi Gunaknumber of each sign, a Sarvashtaka Varga is given below 


Rashi Gunak in Sarvashtaka Varga | 


The Rashi Gunakmentioned above shows which sign is strong to what extent. This also 
shows that between two signs which one is stronger or weaker than the other. 


54 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


4. Planetary Factor 


Grah Gunakis calculated after calculating zodiacal factor. Factor number of each planet is 
fixed as shown in the table below. 


[rane fesse] Se] Ree aoe [oe 


The lines obtained after Ekadhipatya Shodhan are used to calculate the planetary factor. 
But at the same time, it also should be noted as to which sign has more than one planets in 
the horoscope. 


The following rulers should be kept in mind while calculating the planetary factor. 


1. Sum total obtained after multiplying the lines of thessign by the Grah Gunakof the planet 
, Situated in the same sign is said to be the Grah Gunaknumber. + 


2. Ifthere are more than one planets, then the Grah Gunaknumbers of the planets are 
added up and then the total found thereof is multiplied by the lines in the.sign. 


3. Zero should be put in a sign if there is no line in it. 


4. The lines obtained after the Ekadhipatya Shodhan are the base of the total of planetary 
factors. The rules are shown in the exampile horoscope. 


In example horoscopes, the names of the planets have been put in the signs they are 
posited in and where there is no planet, mark of minus (-) has been put. 


[on [rw [oom Jom] | mJ en no] [ae re 
r= oon fmf T= T= Pel FF EP 


So, after Ekadhipatya Shodhan we see that in Suryashtaka Varga there is a line in the sign 
of Aries. Therefore, in this case there will be no planetary factor. There are three lines in 
Taurus along with two planets Moon and Mars. The Grah Gunaknumber of Moon is 5 and 
that of Mars it is 8. Ifthese two numbers are added up, it comes to be 13. Now, if this total of 
13 is multiplied by the three lines in Taurus, it comes to be 39. This total of 39 is the planetary 
facter of Taurus. 


There are three planets in Gemini-Sun, Mercury and Venus. But there will be no Grah Gunakin 
Gemini since no line was found in the sign after Ekadhipatya Shodhan. So, Zero will be put 
in Gemini. In cancer there is a line and a planet Saturn. Now, if 5, the factor number of 
Saturn, is multiplied by 1, the total comes to be 5, the Grah Gunaknumber of Cancer. In Leo 
and Virgo, there is no planet. There is one line with planet Jupiter in Libra. If the Grah 
Gunaknumber 10 of Jupiter is multiplied by 1, the line of the sign, it comes to be 10, which 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 55 


is the Grah Gunaknumber of Libra. There will be zero in each of the rest of the planets from 
Scorpio to Pisces since there is no planet in any of them. The Grah Gunaknumber of example 
horoscope in different Ashtaka Vargas is given here under : 


Grah Gunaknumber in Suryaashtaka Varga * 


: Fai] on [en [ce [We [om Sco |Sea [eum [Ra] Pe rom 
oa 
ren Guekane| [ef » [>|] 


eee ieee ae a 
Joran GunakAnk | - [ss] 7 [os T- ]- fof- |. - ff - | 


Planetary facter number in Budhashtak Varga 


TOD 
anes el «| Pete] 

Se 
acres Pete} Letelelelofel-l-]+le@_ 


ciclaesll facter number in Guru Ashtak Varga 


at a ee 
JGran Gunakank | -| 13] 7 | s_| - | - [10] See 
fora __Jofol » Jo foto fofefofote feta 


56 - Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Planetary facter number in slice Varga 


pete Pepe tert te 
ferahaunaidink | — [= [7 [3 |= [= |= |- [= [=] | 
atl ESF) PRC BP 


ete | 
| GrahGunakAnk | ~ [3] 47] 5 | -[ -] e}-[-[-][ - | 
Ke OD 


eee 


ee ie aes et 
GrahGunakank | —| 13 | 7 | s |-{-|o{-|-[—-|- | -f | 


jeranpind | of o | o | fololwfolofo jo | o] s | 


Grah Gunaknumber in Sarvashtak Varga 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 57 


Grah Gunaknumber horoscope 


Rashi and Grah_Yog Pind will be as follows 


Rashi and Grah Yog Pind 


[eRe Tome [ves | Sen [aor 


Prone [oe fx [ow fw Po [ow [oe Po 
a a 


a a a 


After this, the calculation of Graha Bala should be considered. If there is one planet in a 
sigh, the Grah Gunaknumber of that planet will be its Grah Bala. But f there are more than 
one planet in the same sign, the Graha Bala should be calculated by the ratio of the Grah 
Gunaknumber. : 


In example horoscope, Moon and Mars are situated together. The Grah Gunaknumber of 
Moon is 5 and of Mars it is 8. Ifthese are added up, it becomes 13. Both the planets are 
situated in Taurus. So, if the Grah.Gunaknumber of Taurus that is 117 is divided by 13, it 
remains 9 as quotient. This total of 45 is the Grah Bala of Moon.-Likewise, if 9 is multiplied 
by 8, the Grah Gunaknumber of Mars. This total of 72 is the Grah Gunaknumber and Bala 
as well of Mars. 


The Sun, Mercury and Venus are posited in Gemini. The Grah Gunaknumbers of the Sun, 
Mercury and Venus are 5, 5and 7 respectively. If these numbers are added, the total comes 
to be 17. Now if 34, the Grah Gunaknumber of Gemini is divided by 17 it comes to be 2 as 
quotient. If 2 thus obtained is-multiplied by 5, the planetary factor, it comes to be 10. This 10 
is the Bala of the Sun. Likewise, if 5, the Grah Gunaknumber of Mercury, is multiplied by, it 


58 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


comes to be 10, which is the Bala of Mercury. Similarly, if 7, the Grah Gunaknumber of 
Venus, is multiplied by 2, it comes to be 14, which is the Bala of Venus. 


In Cancer, Saturn is the only planet So, the Bala of Saturn will be 50 | Libra, Jupiter is the 
only planet. So, the Grah Gunaknumber of Jupiter will be the same, i.e. 150. The Grah 
Gunaknumber of each planet is given here under. 


[cea __! esi Mabon Mate aren | diner | Yona Sati 


Jupiter is the strongest among the planets as mentioned above. Mars is weaker than Jupiter, 
Saturn than Mars, Moon than Saturn, Venus than Moon and Mercury and the Sun are 
weaker than Venus. : 


A Shodhana Chakra should be cast thereafter. In Shodhan Chakra, all the caluations and 
their results are mentioned. The Shodhana Chakra of the horoscope mentioned earlier is 
given here under according to the different Vargas. 


Suryashtak Varg 


Aries 

Taurus | Mar.Mo.Lag. 

Gemini. | Sun Mer.Ven. | ~ Rashi Pind 
Cancer | Sat. - Aliset . 148 

Leo a i Grah Pind 


Virgo a, 


Libra | Jupiter aN eae ik ‘| Yoga Pind 


Scorpio 0% «1 202 
Sagtt. 
Capri 
Aqua. 
| Pisces 


Total 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant _ 59 


Chandrashtak Varg 


Line |} Trikon piicanniad Total 
Shodhan| Shodhan 


Aries 


Taurus | Mar.Mo.Lag. 


Sun Mer.Ven] 2 


Gemini Rashi Pind | 
94 
Grah Pind 
45 


Yoga Pind 


Cancer 
Leo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagtt. 
Capri 


i 


139 


Aqua. 


oa £ fF FF oOo DBD om Ff 


Pisces 
Total 


is 
© 


Aries 

Taurus | Mar.Mo.Lag. 

Gemini | Sun Mer.Ven. : Rashi Pind 
Cancer ; 0 > 119 

Leo : - Grah Pind 
Virgo ; 40 

Libra | Jupiter ‘ ; Yoga Pind 
Scorpio 159 

Sagtt. 

Capri 


Aqua. , 


Pisces 


Total 


60 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Budhashtaka Varga i df 


Aries 

Taurus’ | Mar.Mo.Lag. 
Gemini | Sun Mer.Ven: 
Cancer | Sat. 

Leo 

Virgo 

Libra Jupiter 
Scorpio 

Sagtt. 

Capri 

Aqua. 

Pisces 


Rashi Pind 
151 

Grah Pind: 
62 

Yoga Pind 

213. 


QP nN Bw OW OB NN N FD 


Mar.Mo.Lag. 
Sun Mer.Ven 
Cancer | Sat. 
Leo | 
Virgo 
Libra Jupiter. 
Scorpio © 
Sagtt... 
Capri. : 
Aqua. 
Pisces 
Total 


- Rashi Pind 
a 
Grah Pind 
ou 
Yoga Pind :: 
98 


4 
3 
6 
a 
4 
5 
“7 
4° 
175 
6. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 61 


Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagit. 
Capri 
Aqua. - 
Pisces 
Total 


Aries 
Taurus 
Gemini 
Cancer 
Leo 
Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagtt. 
Capri. 
Aqua. 
Pisces 
Total 


62 


| Mar.Mo.Lag. 


Shukrashtaka Varga 


Sun Mer.Ven 
Sat. 


Rashi Pind 
106 

Grah Pind 
1D’ 

Yoga Pind 
121 


Jupiter 


ao fF oO YH KY Ff HH HH Hh HH OH 
ow oo o0lOlUlUlUCODUCUCUCONOUCUMWwWUWwWDUCUCOUUCOUCSHS 
oooe0d0d.cd LcOmCUCODUMWDDUMAULHDLUMODOUCOUCUCU 


on > > > 


= 
ao 


Sanyashtaka Varga 


= ¢ % 


Pla net. : 


Mar.Mo.Lag. ; 

Sun Mer,Ven| 1. Rashi Pind 
Sat. ‘ 134 ; 
Grah Pind 
51 . 
Yoga Pind 
182 


Jupiter - 


4 
“2 
4 
3 
3 
2 
2 
4 
6 


o wow O S02 ON NN O 
R 
ow wow OoeooeoNn rh oO 


w 
ies) 
a 
a 
= 
a 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Lagnashtaka Varga 


Planet Line | Trikon | Ekadhipaty Grah | Total 
- | * . |Shodhan} Shodhan Gunak 
= 5 4 28 0 


Aries 

Taurus } Mar.Mo.Lag. -| - 

Gemini | Sun Mer.Ven] 3 Rashi Pind 
Cancer | Sat. 148 

Leo Grah Pind 
Virgo 50 

Libra Jupiter | Yoga Pind 
Scorpio 198 

Sagit. 

Capri. 

Aqua. 

Pisces 

Total 


Now, a study of the method of prediction by Ashtaka Varga will be made hereafter, in which 
prediction by every Ashtaka Varga from Suryashtaka to Lagnashtaka and the use of Ashtak 
Varga in transit along with prediction of effects will be described elaborately. 


« 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 63 


5. House and analysis of 
House Prediction 


There are 12 houses in a horoscope. The house on top is called Lagna or house of 
Lagnabhav. These 12 houses and synonyms for them are as follows. 


1** house-Lagna, Lagnabhava, Rise (Udaya), Adya (i.e. first) * 

2"7  house-Wealth, speech, family 

3 house- Valour, semen, patience, sibblings. 

4'" house- Comforts, mother 

5" house- Wisdom, love, pitri, progeny 

6", house- Disease, organs of body, enemy, affliction or distress, fear. 
7  house- Wife, love, travel 

8" house- Age, Randhra, dealth 

9'" Religion (Faith), luck, auspiciousness. 

10'" house- Government (administration), deeds (Karma) 

11" house- Income, gain 

12" house-Expenditure 

Now a study on what all could be known by a house is given here under. 


First house : By this house, physialconstitution, physical health, childhood, conduct, weak- 
ness, complexion, appearance etc. are predicted. 


Second house : Wealth, ancestral property, family, friends, jail, singing, speech etc. 


Third house : Younger brother or younger sister, valour, courage, bravery, influence, repu- 
tation etc. 


Fourth house: Family life, happiness, mental peace, vehicle, livestock (cattle), recreaction, 
mother etc. 


Fifth house: Progeny, bliss of progeny, education, sentiment and emotion, reputation, 
administration, efficiency, sudden gain of wealth, gambling, modesty etc. 


Sixth house : Enemy, disease, fear, litigation, dispute, dependence etc. 


Seventhhouse: Wife, wife's heath, love, lover and beloved luxury, marriage, wife's appear- 
ance, complexion, nature etc. 


64 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Eighth house: Age, mental agony, trip to alien land, loan and debt, battle, performance of 
oblation etc. 


Ninth house : Fortune, advent of good luck, downfall of luck, relion, religious functions, 
name and fame, leadership etc. xy 


Tenth house : Government (administration), honour, service, dignity, bliss of father, busi- 
ness, prosperity, enjoyment, fame, self confidence, promotion, change of 
place etc. 


Eleventh : Gain, income, source of incomer, hidden or concealed property, bliss of ve- 
hicle, bliss of elder brother, free contemplation etc. 


Twelfth house : Expense, loss, loan and debt, addiction, enemy, protest, or hostility ex- 
travagance etc. 4 


Now a short description is given here under mentioning therein the different planets that 
stand for the different aspects as their significators. ‘ 


Sun _ ‘tis the significator of spiritual activities, valour, intelligence, violent acts and courage. 


Moon :Moon is the significator of gentility, modesty, submissiveness, emotional disposi- 
tion, beauty, travel and tour etc. Lt represents mainly the mental disposition and 
deeds of the native. 


Mars: War, leadership, commandership, police, arms and ammunitions. cultivation, land 
related job, medical examination, house, happiness etc. 


Mercury : Business, transactions, purchase and sale, tradesmanship, prosperity, enjoy- 
ment, banking, steno typist 


Jupiter : Education, erudition or scholarship, discussion, contention on scriptures. spiritual 
exercises, professor, gazetted officer, leadership, reputation etc. 


Venus : Beauty, gentility, music, art, cinema, foreign trip, bone specialist, love, lover- and be- 
loved etc. 


Saturn : Dodge and duplicity, deception, adultery, disease, loan and debt, diplomacy, leader, 
ambassador etc. 


Note : Ashtakavarga is as interesting and authentic as its study is easy. The influence of a 
planet can easily be predicted by Ashtakavarga. It also helps know the significator of a planet. 


A planet is considered to be strong, if it is posited in its Varga with five Rekhas and a strong 
planet gets its Karakatva. 


Ashort description regarding Rekhas are given below, which will prove to be useful 
1line =: Weakness 
2 Rekhas : Normal 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 65 


3 Rekhas Malefic but the native will adopt the path of virtue 


4 Rekhas Normal (Neither benefic nor malefic) 
5 Rekhas Favourable 

6 Rekhas Best 

7 Rekhas Strong 

8 Rekhas Absolutely fabourable. 


Here is an example to make it clear. 


The native will be deprived of bliss of progeny if the Sun in his horoscope is the lord of fifth 
house and is situated in Suryashtak Varg having two Rekhas. But if the same Sun is there 
in tenth house having five or six Rekhas then the native will rise high and that too very fast. 
He will be enjoy at a very high post. 


Thus, the prediction made by Graha Bala (strength of planet) appears to be very much 
authentic. 


Surya Ashtak Varga 
The Sun having one or more Rekhas (in Surya Ashtak Varga) gives following results: 


One line: If there is a single line in Suryashtak Varga then various types of diseases are 
possible. Hurdle and delay in every job is forecast. In this situation of the Sun the 
native keeps wandering aimlessly. 


Two Rekhas_: The Sun with two Rekhas creates difference of opinion in the family. The native 
remains a suspect even if he does a favourable job. Difficulties in state services 
and financial hardships are possible. 


Three Rekhas : Mental as well as physical problems persist. Teething problem is possible in all 
works. 


Four Rekhas : The Sun with 4 Rekhas bears mixed result. Ups and downs are there in the 
native’s life. Pleasure and pain come by turn. A chance of benefit is followed by a 
possibility of loss. 


Five Rekhas : Cooperation comes effortlessly in such condition. Complete education and 
bliss of children are possible. But number of children remains one or two. 


Six Rekhas : The native with 6 Rekhas in his Surya Ashtak Varga enjoys a sound health. Owing 
to a pleasing personality, he becomes centre of attraction for many of the people. 
Bliss of a vehicle is possible. He will be renowned all over. 


Seven Rekhas : Extremely influential and fortunate, this native commands a great respect 
and enjoys fame more than his expectation. 


66 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Eight Rekhas : A native with eight Rekhas in Surya Ashtak Varga earns great political sta- 
tus and national honour. He enjoys all the pleasures of life. 


A planet in any Ashtak Varga can have Shunya to maximum 8 Rekhas. Therefore, Rekhas 
from 1 to 8 have been considered above. 


Now, certain specific facts about the Sun are clarified here under: 


Depending upon the Rekhas in the signs in a Surya Ashtak Varga, the Sun bears results in 
a particular transit. 


Look at the Surya Ashtak Varga of the example horoscope wherein line status is as follows: 


Line(s) Result 

One line Pain 

Two Rekhas Loss of wealth 

Three Rekhas Depression and Distress 

Four Rekhas Mixed (Neither auspicious nor inauspicious) 
Five Rekhas Pleasure all the time 

Six Rekhas Gain of wealth 

Seven Rekhas Accumulation or benefit of wealth 

Eight Rekhas All the pleasures of life 


There are 7 Rekhas in Aquarius and Pisces of the Ashtak Varga of the example horoscope. 
So, accumulation of wealth or other benefit is expected. Therefore, it is beneficial for the 
native to initiate a job whenever the Sun transits over Aquarius and Pisces. Similarly, pre- 
diction should be done considering the number of Rekhas during transit of other planets. 
Given below are the results of Rekhas of all the Ashtak Vargas of the example horoscope. 


Suryashtak Varga: Rekha Phal 


Sign Sum of Rekhas_ Result(s) 

Aries 4 Neutral 

Taurus 4 Neutral (Neither good nor bad) 
Gemini 3 Depression and distress 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 67 


Cancer 4 Neutral 


Leo 5 Pleasure all the time 

Virgo 1 Afliction 

Libra 4 Neutral 

Scorpio 3 Depression and distress 
Sagitt. 3 Depression and distress 
Capri. 3 Depression and distres 
Aquarius 7 Accumulation or gain of wealth 
Pisces 7 Accumulation or gain of wealth 


There are seven Rekhas in Aquarius and Pisces of the Surya Ashtak Varga of example 
horoscope. It helps in accumulation of wealth or otherwise. Therefore, whenever the Sun 
transits over Aquarius and Pisces the native should take up new assignment. This will help 
make the job possible slipping out of control. Academic condition will be favourable and 
bliss of child or children and benefits will be visible. 


But when the Sun transits over Libra, all sorts of troubles are caused. Mental unease, 
tension, family feud, physical ailment and teething problems in all jobs are possible. 


This is the way one should make a forecast depending upon the number of Rekhas present 
during the transit of other planets. 


2. |The Sun with 3 Rekhas speaks of ill health of the native. He will be weak, feeble and 
short tempered. But if the Sun having 5 or 7 Rekhas is posited in its own sign or in a 
friendly quarter, the native will enjoy good health and will be renowned all over. 


3. Ifthe Sun, with just 2-3 Rekhas, is neither in its own sign nor in a friendly one, the 
native ails throughout. 


4. Ina horoscope, the 9" house from the sign in which the Sun is posited, is the house 
of the father. Regarding his ailment or death a calculation is required that is as follows: 


Initially multiply the number of Rekhas present in 9" house by Yoga Pinda Of Suryashtak 
Varga. Divide the product by 27 and then calculate the residue by Ashwini. This way a 
particular constellation is arrived at and if Saturn is in transitover the same constella- 
tion, father's ailment or even his death is forecast. 


in example horoscope, the Sun is in Gemini and the ninth sign from Gemini is Aquarius. In 
the sign of Aquarius in Suryashtaka Varga the number of Rekhas is 7 and Yoga Pinda of the 
Sun is 202. 


68 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Therefore, 202x7=1414. This product of 1414 is further divided by 27 and we get 52 as 
quotient and 10 as residue. Magha is the 10 constellation from Ashwini. So when Saturn 
transits over Magha, father's death or deadly ailment is likely to happen. 


5. According to rule 4, as stated above, if Saturn is transiting over 10" or 19" constella- 
tion, death or deadly ailment to uncle of the native is possible. 


6. _ If the product obtained by multiplying the number of Rekhas in father's house by Yoga 
Pinda is divided by 12, we have some residue. This residue indicates a particular 
constellation. Now, if Saturn transits over that particular constellation, ailment to the 
father of the native is possible. 


In the earlier example horoscope house of father is Aquarius. Its number line is 7. Now, if 
this number of 7is multiplied by 202, the product becomes 1414. Further, dividirig this by 12 
gives 10 as residual. Therefore, Saturn transiting over Scorpio, the 10" sign from Aquarius, 
presages fatal ailment to the father of the native. 


If there is Fatal Period (Marak Dasha) in this situation, death or deadly troubles to the father 
of the native is possible. 


7. After Ekadhipatya Shodhan, if the Sun with 2 Rekhas is posited in Kendra along with 
Mercury or Mars, then rise in fortune of father of the native is a must. 


8. But if the Sun with 5 Rekhas is posited in the said Kendra with Moon, the native's 
father may meet sudden death. 


9. If birth Lagna of the native is 8" from his father's birth Lagna, or the lord of eighth 
house of his father is posited in the native's birth sign, then the father's death is sure 
sooner than later. 


10. The Sun is considered most auspicious in 6" or 11" house. If it is with more than 4 
Rekhas and is posited in 6" or 11" house, then it helps accentuate not only the cur- 
rent house of stay but also of the house it is the lord of. 


11. Ifthe Sun with 3-4 Rekhas is posited in Kendra or Trikon, then the native's father's 
death is possible in 18" year of the native. 


12. Butif the Sun having 2-3 Rekhas is posited in Trikon along with Rahu then father of the 
native will die after only 7 years of the native's birth. 


13. Ifthe Sun with 3 or less than 3 Rekhas is situated in inimical house or in a house along 
with an inimical planet then the native will die at the age of 42. 


14. Yoga Pinda of the Sun is multiplied by the line or Rekhas present in 7" house after the 
sign the Sun is situated in. Secondly, the product is divided by 27 and the residual is 
obtained. Now, if Jupiter comes on the constellation that falls the sum of residual from 
Ashwini, then accident of father is possible. See the calculation given below: 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 69 


202x3=606. Now, 606 is divided by 27 and we get 22 as quotient and 12 as residue. Uttara 
Falguni is the 12" constellation‘from Ashwini. So, if Jupiter transits over Uttara Falguni, the 
father of the native may meet some accident. 


15. As perthe calculation done above (point 14), the father of the native may have to face 
some fatal and poinful situation during the transit of the Sun also over the same con- 
stellation. 


16. The number of Rekhas present in Suryashtak Varga multiplied by Yoga Pinda of the 
Sun and then the product divided by 12 gives a residue. Now, if the sign obtained by 
counting residue from Aries is having Saturn over it, then the native may die. Even if 
the period is favourable, deadly trouble is feared. 


For instance, the Sun is in Gemini in the example horoscope. Capricorn, the eighth sign in 
it, has 3 Rekhas. Yoga Pinda of the Sun is 202. Now, this figure of 202 should be multiplied 
by 3, by which we will get 606 as its product. Further, this product of 606 should be divided by 
12, the residual of which comes to be 6. It means, if Saturn comes on Virgo, the native may die 
or agony to his family is expected. 


17. It is suggested to perform religious rites when the Sun comes in the sign with maxi- 
mum Rekhas in Suryashtak Varg. 


18. On the other hand, it is not wise to start any auspicious function when the Sun comes 
over the sign having no line. 


For marriage, etc. such specific consideration is auspicious. 
Chandra Ashtak Varg 


The number of Rekhas in one's own Ashtak Varg can make a native interpret the result in 
the way given below: 


1 line : Disrepute and auful worry 


2 Rekhas Ailment and deterioration in mother's health. 


3 Rekhas Favourable 
4 Rekhas Bliss of house, favourable circumstances 
5 Rekhas Mental peace, psychic force, flawless character 


6 Rekhas Mental agility, high thinking and originality in disposition 
7 Rekhas Virtuous thinking and divinity 
8 Rekhas High thinking and all round prosperity. 


1. The native will be ailing or feeble if Moon is with 2-3 Rekhas in his horoscope. He will 
have to face problem in stomach and gastric trouble. Mental tension is also possible. 


70 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


2. _ Ifthe Moon with 2 Rekhas is posited with any two sinful or cruel planets then the native 
cannot survive after 36 years. 


3. If the Moon with 2 Rekhas is sitting with Rahu the native happens to be mentally 
derailed. He remains out of his senses. 


4. The Moon with 1 -2 Rekhas causes harm to the house it is posited in. The luck of the 
native will go adverse in this situation of the Moon. 


5.  Butif the same Moon having 5 or more Rekhas is posited in 6th or 11th house then the 
native will surely be a millionaire or wealthy. Secondly, if Jupiter is conjoined with or 
aspected by Moon with 5 or more Rekhas, the wealth of the native will go for altruistic 
purposes. 


6. _ If the Moon is with less than 3 Rekhas, the native is put to trouble by enemy or dis- 
eases. 


7. Ifthe Moon being the lord of Trikon, 5th or 9th house is posited anywhere in the horo- 
scope (except 8th and 12th houses) then the native will be fast in taking decision, 
wise, ideal and imaginative. But for this, the Moon should have more than 5 Rekhas. 


8. | Number of Rekhas in the fourth house from the house the Moon is posited in should 
be multiplied by the Yoga Pind of the Moon and then the product should be divided by 
27. Now, the constellations should be counted from Ashwini up to the number of 
residue obtained. The mother of the native may die or may have to face deadly pains 
during the transit of Saturn over the constellation that falls on the number of residue. 


In example horoscope, Moon is in Taurus and Leo is fourth from the same. Ashtak Varg of 
the Moon has 4 Rekhas and in Chandrashtak Varg, Yoga Pind of Moon is139. Now if this 
Yoga Pind of 139 is multiplied by 4, it comes to be 556 as product. Further, if this product is 
divided by 27, we get 20 as quotient and 16 as residue. Vishakha is the 16th constellation 
from Ashwini. So, the mother of the’native will meet the same problems or situations as 
stated above during the transit of Saturn over Vishakha. 


9. Number of Rekhas in the fourth sign from the sign Moon is posited in should be mul- 
tiplied by the Yoga Ppind of the Moon and the product obtained should be divided by 
12. Now, the signs should be counted from Aries up to the number of the residue. Death 
of the mother of native is imminent during the transit of Satum over the sign that falls on the 
number of the residue. 


In example horoscope, Moon is in Taurus. Leo is the fourth sign from Taurus, which has four 
Rekhas. If this number of 4 is multiplied by 139, the Yoga Pind of the Moon, it comes to be 
556 as product. Now, if this product of 556 is divided by 12, we shall get 46 as quotient and 
4 as residue. Cancer is the fourth sign from Aries, which falls on the number of 4, the 
residue. So, the mother will die or the situation as stated above will crop up during the 
transit of Saturn over Cancer. 


10. Ifthe Moon having 7 or 8 Rekhas is posited in Kendra, the native will be highly edu- 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 71 


cated, wise, strong, mentally strong and clever. 
11. Ifthe Moon having no line or only one, is posited in 8th or 12th house, the mother of 
the native will die in his childhood. 


12. It is wise to take up auspicious or spiritual exercises when the Moon enters the sign in 
which there is maximum number of Rekhas. In the example horoscope there are 6 
Rekhas each in Libra and Pisces. Therefore, for this native, any auspicious exercise 
done during the period the Moon is in Libra or Pisces Tula or Pisces is beneficial. 

13. When moon enters a particular sign while in transit and that sign has merely 2-3 
Rekhas, the native should not do any auspicious job. 

14. Ifthe moon along with 2-3 Rekhas is in Trikon or in Kendra that too in a debifitated or 
an enemy quarter then it destroys the house it is positioned in. 


15. Ifthe Moon with 2-3 Rekhas is posited in 7” or 8" house and is aspected by Rahu then 
mother of the native suffers from chronic illness. 

16. Ifthe moon, with 5 or more Rekhas, is in Kendra or in Trikon then it makes the house 
prosperous. 


17. IfMars is in 7" or 8" house from the house the Moon is posited in and the moon is with 
2-3 Rekhas, a rift between the native and his mother is possible. 


18. If the Sin is in the 4'° house and Moon, with 2-3 Rekhas, is in 12" house, then the 
native may have to suffer posited separation from mother in 34" or 37" year. 


19. If the moon, with 7-8 Rekhas, posited in the Kendra the native is assured of name- 
fame and good academic record. 


20. Ifthe moon is in a weak lagna, along with Zero, one or two Bindus the native may die 
of accident or poisoning. It is to be noted that the moon goes weak as it nears the Sun. 


21. After Ekadhipatya Shodhan the number of Rekhas should be multiplied by the Yoya 
Pind of Moon and the product should be divided by 27 thereafter. Now, after calcuting 
the residue from Ashwini, a particular constellation is arrived at. If Saturn transits over that 
constellation the native is likely to run in heavy troubles. He may be dishonored or may 
lose someone of his family. 


In the example horoscope, after Ekadhipatya Shodhan, total number of Rekhas is 12 and 
Yoga Pinda is 139. Now, this total of 12 should be multiplied by 139 and then the product 
should be divided by 27. The calculation is given below. 

139X12 = 1668 


1668 + 27 = 61, the quotient and 21, the residue. 

Therefore, the native may have to face severe trouble during the transit of Saturn over 
Uttarashadha. Similarly, the native will have the same troubles to face during the transit of 
Saturn over Krittika, the 10 constellation from Uttarashadha. Again the time for the native 
will prove to be inauspicious and ailing during the transit of Saturn over Uttarafalgani, the 


72 . Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


19 constellation. 


Here, a list of the 27 constellations arranged in order is given below. It will help the readers/ 
scholars while making calculations. 

1. Ashwini 2. Bhara 3. Krittika 4. Rohini 5. Mrigashira 6. Ardra 7. Punarvasu 8. Pushya 9. 
Ashlesha 10. Magha 11. Poorvaphalguni 12. Uttaraphalguni 13. Hast 14. Chiltra 15. Swati 
16. Vishakha 17. Anuradha 18. Jyeshtha 19. Moola 20. Poorvashadha 21. Uttarashadha 22. 
Shrawan 23. Dhanishtha 24. Shatbhisha 25. Poorvabhadrapada 26. Uttarabhadrapada 27. 
Rewati. 


22. Results of the Rekhas of Chandrashtak Varga after Ekadhpatya Shodhan 


1. Rekhas 5 or less mean thé native will be desolate, of weak mental disposition. He will 
lead just an ordinary life. 


2. Rekhas 6 to 10 augur a peaceful life. The native will succeed after consistent labour. He 
will see his fortune rise through ups and downs. He will be altruististic by nature. 


3. Rekhas 11 to 15 mean excellence in all walks of life. The brilliant native will have a 
focused brain. He will take sharp decision. He will be an inteelectual, enterprising and 
will suceed in every walk of life. 


4. Rekhas 16 or more forecast success in all walks of life. The native will be a man of high 
stature and impressive personality. He will be wealthy and honoured in the society. 


Bhoumashtak Varga 
Results of Rekhas from1 to 8 in Bhoumashtak Varga are as follows : 


1 Rekhas : Weakness, mutilation of any part of the body 


2 Rekhas : The native will be a liar, residing in solitude. Hurdles and worries are pos- 
sible. 

3 Rekhas : Life full of hardships. The native will have to face stigma. Unsteadiness in 
pro fession and practice as well. 

4 Rekhas : Normal - neither benefic nor malefic. 

5 Rekhas : Unexpected gains, win over enemy or enemies, cooperation from people. 

6 Rekhas Favour from state and cooperation from friends, Accomplishment of jobs 
undetaken. 

7 Rekhas : Finacial gain, cooperation from family and some specific gains from the 
broters. 

8 Rekhas : Prosperous; gain of land, profit in cultivation, success in all walks of life, win 


over enemies. 


Mars has a significant place in Ashtak Varga. One can know about agriculture, building a 
house, buying property, and bliss of family and about the time of brother's death through 
this position of Mars. Its specific results are given below: 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 73 


1. The number of brothers and sisters of the native will be equal to the number of Rekhas 
in the sign 3rd from the house Mars is posited in. According to Phaladeepika- 
Bhaumatritiya Rashisth Fallai Bhratriganam vadet, which means that the number of 
Rekhas in 3" sign after Mars is the number of natives brothers and sisters. 


In the example horoscope Mars is in Taurus and 3° sign after Taurus is Cancer. And in 
Bhaumashtak Varga Cancer has 4 Rekhas, therefore the native will have 4 brothers and 
sisters. : 


2. | When Mars is in Kendra or in Trikon with 7-8 Rekhas the native becomes a millionaire 
without fail. : 


3. But if Mars is in Scorpio orCapricorn along with 8 Rekhas-posited in 9” house or 
Lagna, 4 or 10" house then the native will be a millionaire. 


4. Mars posited in Leo, Sagittarius or Capricorn having 7 or 8 Rekhas augurs that the 
native will be a capitalist. But if it has only 4 Rekhas, he will be a landlord. 


5. Mars, with 8 Rekhas, in Lagna or 10" house means that the native will have no dearth 
of wealth. Again If Mars is exalted the native will be a millionaire and famous. 


6. The native will be influential and powerful and will lead a very prosperous life if Mars 
having 8 Rekhas is posited anywhere in the horoscope as a significator. 


7. Mars with 8 Rekhas in fourth or 10” house crossing through Capricorn, Aries or Scor- 
pio augurs that will be a minister or head of the department assigned to him.. 


8. With 7-8 Rekhas, if Mars is in second or 10" house the native will hold a high hold in 
Central govt. 


9. If Mars, with 4 Rekhas, is posited in Surya or Chandra Lagna, or in Janma Lagna 
having associaltion with Aries, Capriocorn or Scorpio the native is not likely to Suffer 
financially. 


In the example horoscope Mars is with 4 Rekhas alongwith Moon in Lagna threfore the 
native never suffered financially. Here Mars is situated in Janma Lagna and in Lagna, 
Chandra Lagna in the same position. 


10. IfMars is weak i.e. with merely 0-1 line, brothers of the native will enjoy a long life. 


11. Number of Rekhas of Mars after Ekadhipatya Shodhan, multiplied with Yoga Panda of 
Manglashtak Varga, and then divided by 27 gives a residue, Now from Ashwini to that 
point. When Saturn will transit over that particular constellation the native's brother 
may run into trouble or even death is possible. 


In Example horoscope, after Ekadhipatya Shodhan, the number of Rekhas of Mars is 14 in 
Mangalashtak Varg. Now, if this number of 14 is multiplied by Yoga Pind of 159, it comes to 
be 2226 as its product. Further, dividing this product of 2226 by 27, we get 82 as quotient 
and 12 as residue. Uttaraphalguni is the 12" constellation from Ashwini. Therefore, the 
brother of the native will have to suffer during the transit of Saturn over Uttaraphalguni. 


74 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


12. 


The number of Rekhas of Mars in Mangalashtak Varg obtained after Ekachipatya 
Shodhan should be multiplied by Yoga Pind and the product should be divided by 12. 
The residue thus obtained represents the sign that comes after counting from Aries. 
Suppose that the residue is 2, so it will be Taurus the second sign from Aries. An 
example is cited here under to make it more clear. 


In example horoscope, the number of Rekhas of Mars is 14. Now, if this number of 14 is 
multiplied by 159, the Yoga Pind, we get 2226 as its product. Further, dividing this product of 
2226 by 12, it gives us 6 as residue. Virgo is the 6" constellation from Aries. So, the brother 
of the native will have to suffer much during the transit of Saturn oyer Virgo. 


13. 


14. 


17. 


18. 


19. 
20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


a4. 


If Mars having six Rekhas is posited in 6", 8" or 12" house along with a weak Moon, 
the native will not have bliss of brother. 


Posited in Lagna or conjoined with Moon, Mars having less Rekhas augurs that the 
native will adopt a boy as his son. He will himself be adopted by some one else, if 
being the lord of sixth house, the same Mars is posited in the 2"4 house. 


The native will not have the bliss of brother if Mars haying two or three Rekhas is 
situated in 3 house along with Saturn. 


The native will have gain of property from his brother if Mars with 6 Rekhas is situated 
in the third house of his horoscope. 


The native will be prosperous and will enjoy bliss of brothers if a fixed sign is in Lagna 
and the lord of 3° house having five or more Rekhas is posited in a common sign. 


The native will have many brothers if Mars having 5 or more Rekhas is posited in 3 
house and aspected by a benefic planet. All his brothers will be very helpful to him. 


The native will have to face separation from his brother in his youth. 


If Mars having 3 or fewer Rekhas is situated in any of the houses along with the lord of 
seventh house, the native will be bereaved of his brother between 30 to 34 years of his age. 


The native will be deprved of bliss of brother if Mars with two or even less Rekhas is 
posited in eighth house or is conjoined with by the lord of eighth house. 


The native will emerge successful in the field of politics if Mars and Saturn are aspected 
by each other and Mars is strong having five or more Rekhas. 


The political life of the native will ruin if Mars in his horoscope has one or two Rekhas 
and is aspected by Mercury or Jupiter. 


The native will be a high official either in police or in army if Mars having five or more 
Rekhas is posited in tenth house and is aspected by Saturn 


If Mars is exalted i.e. of Gemini and is situated in sixth, ninth or eleventh house having 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 75 


six or more Rekhas the native will be a high-ranking army officer. 


26. The native will be deprived of bliss of brother if Mars with six or more Rekhas is 


situated in 3 house of his horoscope. 


Results according to Rekhas of Bhaumashtak Varg after Ekadhipatya Shodhan are men- 
tioned here under: 


1. 
2. 


5. 


The native will not have bliss of brothers if the Rekhas are in between 1 to 5. 


The native will have a very few brothers in number and he will be at odds with them if the 
Rekhas are in between 6 to 10. 


. The native will enjoy bliss of brothers and will reap a rich harvest or will earn much in 


property dealing if the Rekhas are in between 11 to 15 


. If the Rekhas are in between 16 to 20, the native will be a landlord and will enjoy a 


prosperous family life. 


The native will be renowned, reputed and a millionaire if the Rekhas are 21 in number. 


Budhashtak Varga 


In Budhashtak Varg, line wise effects of Mercury are as follows : 


0 


1. 
2. 


line: unsteady state of mind, coward by nature. 
line: Loss and agony 


line: What all the native undertakes, goes in vain. Hurdles, differences of opinion in the 


family and hardships in life are caused. 


3. Rekhas : Sudden loss of wealth and loss of reputation. 


4. Rekhas: Rise and fall in trade, troubles in job. 


76 


Rekhas : Cooperation from most of the people around, capacity to make people 
favourable. 


Rekhas :_ The native will gain experience and will be concentrated towards achieving 
his target. He will accomplish successfully what all he undertakes. 

Rekhas : Respect and honour in society, wealth and property besides prosperous 
life. 


Rekhas : Favour from state or ruler, material happiness, enhancement in the sphere 
of reputation. 


Matters related to family, maternal uncle and friends of the native should be consid- 
ered by the sing fourth from the sign Mercury is posited in. If the sign concerned has 
four Rekhas or more, the native will reap full cooperation of his friends. He will earn 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


10. 


12. 


favour from his mother's paternal home besides honour in family. But if there is no line 
or if itis one, two or three in number in the sign then the native will have to face hurdles 
and troubles at every step. Dispute or misgivings will be there in the family and the 
native will have no cooperation from his maternal uncle. 


The spiritual disposition, interest in writing, education and name and fame of the na- 
tive should be considered by the sign fifth from the sign Mercury is poisited in. The 
native will be adept in the art of writing besides being adicted to learning if there are 
more than five Rekhas in that fifth sign. He will lead his life with full dignity. 


Advent of Mercury over the sign having Rekhas more than the others augurs en- 
hancement in prosperity of the family. But if the same Mercury transits over the sign 
having Rekhas less than four, the native will have loss of wealth, loss of honour and in 
trade. He shall haveto face hardships as well. 


The native will emerge successful in trade and in the field of banking. 


The native will have to face insult at every step if Mercury having two or three Rekhas 
is situated in sixth or eighth house. No body will believe whathe says. 


The native will prove to be well versed in the Vedas, if Mercury with four or more 
Rekhas is posited in Kendra or Trikon and aspects Jupiter from there. It has been 
noticed that a person appears to be a student of the Vedas if Mercury with five or more 
Rekhas is posited in any of the houses (excepting sixth) and is aspected by Jupiter. 
He proves to be conversant in occult sciences as well. 


The native will certainly be adept in astrology if Mercury having five Rekhas is situated 
in Kendra from Saturn or in Kendra or Trikon from Jupiter or in fourth, sixth or eleventh 
house from Lagna. 


The native will emerge successful in the field of education and will obtain higher de- 
grees if Mercury having four or more Rekhas more Rekhas is situated in the sign of 
the lord of the sign the Moon is posited in or in the sign of the lord of the sign the Sun 
is posited in. 


If Mercury with five or more Rekhas is conjoined with a benefic planet or situated in the 
sign of benefic one the native will be adept in the art of dancing, music and fine arts. 


The native will not be able to complete his education or will have hurdles in education 
or will ifthe lord of the sign of Moon is situated in sixth, eighth or twelfth house along 
with Mercury having four or less Rekhas. 


If Mercury having four Rekhas in its Ashtak Varg is posited in fifth, ninth or eleventh 
house along with the Sun, the native will be renowned and honoured in the society he 
lives in. 


Having four or more Rekhas Mercury will enhance the benignity of the house it is 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 77 


posited in. But fewer the line Mercury has the better will be its result, if it is posited in 
sixth, eighth or twelfth house. 


13. Ifthe house second from the house Mercury is posited in, has two, one or no line, the 
native will not be able to express his views confidently. 


14. The native will not be skilled in speech if Mercury with three or iess line is situated in 
any house of his horoscope., Very few people will believe what he says. 


15. The native will certainly be skilled in speech and will impress others by his elocution if 
the house, next to the house Mercury is posited in, has seven or eight Rekhas. The 
native might be a poet or a writer. 


16. The native will be a stammerer, if there is no line in the sign next to the sign Mercury is 
posited in. 


1. If there is one line, the native cannot express his views properly nor can he impress the 
person before him. 


2. Two Rekhas augur that the native can simply express his views, but no splendour or 
fluency will be there in his speech. 


3. If there are three Rekhas, the native will be eloquent and able to impress others. 


4. The native will be talkative, enlightened and able to express his views properly if there 
are four Rekhas. 


5. There will be a splendour, fluency and sweetness in speech of the native if there are four 
Rekhas there with Mercury. He will be expert in diplomatic talks. 


6. The native will be a scholar, a poet and a voracious speaker if there are six Rekhas there 
with Mercury. 


7. In case of seven Rekhas, the native will be able to express his views skilfully. He will 
have control over the language he uses. 


8. The native will be a good orator, fluent in speaking and able to impress others if 
there are eight Rekhas there with Mercury. 


17. There will be a splendour and fluency in speech of the native if the Sun is posited in the 
house next to the house Mercury is posited in. 


If the, Moon is in the house next to the house Mercury is posited in, the native will be free and 
skilled in speech. 


If Mars is there, there will be a bitterness in the speech of the native. 


If there is Jupiter in the house next to the house Mercury is posited in, there will be depth in 
his speech and it will be very easy to follow. 


Ifthere is Venus, the native's speech will be very sweet and simple. 


78 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


The speech of the native will be bitter and diplomatic if Saturn is there in the house next to 
the house Mercury is posited in. 


If Rahu, there will be a satire in his speech. 
If there is Ketu, the speech of the native will be full of sweetness and clarity. 


18. Multiply the number of Rekhas of the sign next to the sign Mercury is posited in by the 
Yoga Pind of Budhashtak and then divide product thus obtained by 12. Now count the 
signs from Aries up to the residue obtained by dividing. The native will complete his 
education during the period or sub period of the lord of the sign that falls on the num- 
ber of residue. He will obtain higher degrees and wealth during the said period or sub 
period. 


In example horoscope, Mercury is in Gemini. Number of Rekhas of Cancer, nextto Gemini, 
is 2. Yoga Pind of Budhashtak Varg is 213. As’stated above, a calculation can be made in 
the following manner: 

213x2=426 

426 / 12 = 35, the quotient and 6, the residue. 


Now, if counted from Aries, Scorpio is the sixth sign and Mars is the lord of Scorpio. So, the 
native will complete his education; will have higher degrees and gain of wealth during the 
period or sub period (it may be the major period also) of Mars. Even otherwise, the native 
will have the same result during the transit of Jupiter over Scorpio, the sign of Mars. 


20. Multiply the number of Rekhas in the sign fourth from the sign Mercury is posited in by 
the Yoga Pind of Budhashtak Varg. Further, divide the product thus obtained by 27. 
Now, count the constellations from Ashwini upto the number obtained as residue. The 
native will have to face hardships during the transit of Saturn over.the constellation’ 
that falls on that number. Dispute in family and mental agony of the native will enhance 
during this period. Besides, hurdles and losses in business are also possible. A cal- 
Culation in this regard is given hereunder: 


In example horoscope Mercury is in Gemini. There are 2 Rekhas in Virgo; the fourth sign 
from Gemini, and Yoga Pind is 213. Now according to rule, the Yoga Pind of 213 should be 
multiplied by 2 and the product should be divided by 27. In this process, we shall get 15 as 
quotient and 21 as residue. Uttarasharha is the 21°' constellation from Ashwini. So, the 
native will haveto face the same problems as stated above during the transit of Saturn over 
Uttarasharha. 


21. Multiply the Rekhas in the house tenth from the house Mercury is posited in by the 
Yoga Pind of Mercury and then divide the product by12. Now count the signs from 
Aries up to the number of residue. The native may have to suffer loss in business 
during the transit of Saturn over the sign that falls on the number of residue. Dmotion, 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 79 


disfavour from state or ruler, litigation or sudden loss of wealth is possible. To make it 
more clear, an example is given hereunder: 


in example horoscope, Mercury number of is in Gemini. The total number of Rekhas of 
Pisces, the tenth sign from Gemini, is 6. Now, if this 6 is multiplied by 213, the Yoga Pind, it 
comes to be 1278 as product. Further, if this product of 1278 is divided by 12, we shall get 
106 as quotient and 6 as residue. Virgo is the 6" sign from Aries. So, the native will have the 
same problems to face as stated above during the transit of Saturn over Virgo. 


Guru Ashtak Varg 


Prediction of effects of Jupiter according to Rekhas: 


0 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 


1. 


line : Dispute in family and difference of opinions with near and dear ones. 
line: Mental agonies and weak health 


Rekhas : Hurdles in job and business, disfavour and problems from state or ruler 
Rekhas : Loss of memory and knowledge 

Rekhas : Normal - no profit no loss situation 

Rekhas : Win over enemies and in litigation 

Rekhas: Bliss of vehicle and gain from rich people 

Rekhas : Advent of lady luck and happiness 

Rekhas : Renown, fame, reputation, wealth 


The native will be a great scholar and will achieve his goal successfully if Jupiter 
having five Rekhas is posited in Trikon. 


The native will enjoy a long life if Jupiter with five or more Rekhas is situated in sixth, 
eighth or twelfth house. 


The native will remain unfortunate even if he tries to change his fortune, if the Sun is 
situated in the sign having least number of line or Rekhas in Ashtak Varg of Jupiter. He 
cannot achieve his goal. 


The native will certainly be a gazetted officer if Jupiter with seven or eight Rekhas is 
posited in its own or an exalted sign. 


The sign, fifth from the house Jupiter is posited in, represents son. If the same sign 
has four or more Rekhas, the native will have bliss of son. 


Results according to the number of Rekhas in the sign fifth from the sign Jupiter is 
posited in: 


0 line - The native will not have any child 


1 line - A very lean hope of a child. 


80 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


2 Rekhas - Delay in birth of a baby and the child will be a dunce. 


3 Rekhas - The native will have many children and they all will be average. 


4 Rekhas - Normal bliss of children - neither much nor less. One of the children will be 
brilliant. 


5 Rekhas - The native will have bliss of children and they will serve him during his old age. 


6 Rekhas - The baby born to the family will prove to be brilliant and he will bring name and 
fame to the family. 


7 Rekhas -The native will have much bliss of progeny. 


8 Rekhas - The baby born to the family will be renowned, a high profile official and rich. 


7. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15. 


If Jupiter with 8 Rekhas, but obstructed by the Sun, is situated in its own or an exalted 
sign in Kendra or Trikon, the native will be renowned across the country. 


In case of 6 Rekhas, the native will enjoy a nice car throughout his life. He will be 
prosperous and will prove to be a fine master of his family. He will accomplish his jobs 
skilfully. 


If there are 5 Rekhas and if Jupiter is creating the combination stated above then the 
native would enjoy all kinds of worldly happiness. 


The native will certainly be rich if Jupiter with five or more Rekhas is posited even in 
sixth, eighth, eleventh or twelfth house. He will win court casesand will enjoy bliss of 
a beautiful wife. 


The native will be worried about his child or children if Jupiter having four or less than 
four Rekhas is posited in a debilitated or inimical sign. 


The native will have to keep on liquidating debts on him throughout his life if Moon, 
having one or two Rekhas or no line, is posited in the house sixth or eighth from 
Jupiter. 


The native will be the leader of opposition if Jupiter with five or more Rekhas is posited 
in the sign of whom Moon is the lord. 


The native will have to face hurdles in education if Jupiter with no line or one or two 
Rekhas is posited in any of the house in his horoscope. 


If Moon with five and Jupiter with five or more Rekhas are aspected by each other, the 
native will have a happy and prosperous family. He will be one of the rich persons 
around him. 


The native will certainly be a renowned millionaire if Jupiter having five or more Rekhas 
is posited in Kendra from Lagna or Venus or in the sign of Venus and Venus is situated 
in the sign of Jupiter. 


If the lord of Lagna has two Rekhas, and Lagn is under the influence of cruel planets 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 81 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


and Jupiter has 3 or fewer Rekhas, the native will be poor. 

IfJupiter is conjoined with the lord of Lagn or both of them are aspected by each other 
having seven or eight Rekhas each, the native will be renowned and will bring name 
and fame to the family by his deeds. 


The native will be a great fatalist and will enjoy the post of a minister, if having six or 
more Rekhas Jupiter, being Bhagyesh, is posited in Kendra. 


The child or children of the native will be poor, extravagant and profligate, if Jupiter with 
two or three Rekhas is posited in Trikon or in own sigh along with an Akarak planet or 
Venus. 


The native will not have desired bliss of sons and grandsons, if the lord of fifth house 
is posited in eighth house and the lord of eighth is in fifth and Jupiter has less than four 
Rekhas. 


The children of the native equal in number to the Rekhas in third house will die if 
Jupiter having one or two Rekhas is situated in sixth or eighth house. 


The son of the native will be stigmatic and will bring disgrace to the family by his evil 
deeds if the lord of fifth house having one or two Rekhas, is situated between two 
malefic planets. 


If a malefic planet with five or more Rekhas is posited there in the sign fifth from 
Jupiter and if Jupiter has three Rekhas then the native will adopt a boy child. 


The native will have three sons if Jupiter having four Rekhas is retrograde in his horo- 
scope 


Add up the Rekhas in the houses fifth from Lagn and Jupiter respectively and then 
divide the sum total by two. The native will have children equal in number to the quo- 
tient. 


In example horoscope there are 5 Rekhas in the house fifth from Lgan and 5 in the house 
fifth from the house Jupiter is posited in. Ifthe Rekhas of both the houses are added up, the 
Sum total comes to be 10. Now, if this sum total is divided by 2, we shall get 5 as quotient. 
It means that the native will be blessed with 5 children 


25. 


To find the time of birth of a baby the number of Rekhas in the sign fifth from the sign 
Jupiter is posited in should be multiplied by the Yoga Pind of Jupiter and the product 
should be divided by 27 thereafter. Now, the signs should be counted from Ashwini 
upto the number of residue. The baby will be born during the transit of Jupiter over the 
constellation that falls on the residue. 


In example horoscope Jupiter is in Libra and Aquarius is fifth from it. Aquarius has 5 Rekhas. 
If this number of 5 is multiplied by 98, the Yoga Pind of Jupiter, it comes to be 490 as 
product. Now, if this product of 490 is divided by 27, we shall get 18 as quotient and 6 as 


82 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


residue. Further, if counted from Ashwini, Ardra happens to be the sixth constellation. So, 
according to the rule, the baby will be born during the transit of Jupiter over Ardra. 


To find the month of birth of a baby, the Rekhas of the sign fifth from the sign Jupiter is 
posited in, should be multiplied by the Yoga Pind of Jupiter and the product should be 
divided by 12. Now, the signs should be counted from Aries upto the number of residue. The 
baby will born during the transit of the Sun over the sign that comes up as a result.. 


In example horoscope there are 5 Rekhas in Aquarius, the fifth sign from Jupiter. If this 
number of Rekhas is multiplied by 98, the Yoga Pind of Jupiter, it comes to be 490 as 
product. Now, if this product of 490 is divided by 12, we shall get 40 as quotient and 10 as 
residue. Further, if counted from Aries, We find Capricorn as tenth sign. So, the child will be 
born during the transit of the Sun over Capricorn. 


Contrary to this, according to some scholars, the Yoga Pind of Jupiter should be multiplied 
by 4 and then the product should be divided by 12. The child will be born during the transit of 
the Sun over the sign that falls on the number of residue obtained. 


26. Multiply the Rekhas in the sign fifth from Jupiter (after Ekadhipaty Shodhan) by the 
total number of Rekhas in Guru Ashtak Varg (after Ekadhipaty Shodhan) and then 
divide the product by 12. Now, countthe signs from Aries upto the number of residue 
obtained. The child will be born during the transit over the sign that falls on the residue. 


27. Situation of Jupiter should be observed. The native will have bliss of progeny if Jupiter 
is situated in its own or in a friendly sign, but if itis in an inimical sign, the native will be 
deprived of the same. 


Order of planets and houses is as follows: 
1. Saturn, 2. Jupiter, 3. Mars, 4. Sun, 5. Venus. 6. Mercury, 7. Moon, 8. Lagn 


In example horoscope Jupiter is situated in the sign of Libra, in Sarvashtak Varg, the num- 
ber of Rekhas of Libra is 38 and the Grah Pind of Jupiter is 34. 


Now, if 38, the number of Rekhas of Libra is divided by 34, the Grah Pind of Jupiter, we get 
1 as quotient and 4 as residue. It means Jupiter is in its own house. Jupiter has crossed 
over Saturn, and has entered into its own house. So, the native will have bliss Of progeny. 


Shukrashtaka Varga 
An analysis of Shukrashtaka Varga is mentioned in the following manner 


Oline =: Accident 


1 line  : Bronchial problems 

2 Rekhas hardships and mental troubles. 

3 Rekhas Difference among the members and officials. 
4 Rekhas Joy and sorrow both. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 83 


5 Rekhas Happiness in family life, cooperation form friends and desire to rise 


6 Rekhas Permanency in love affairs and happiness. 
7 Rekhas Profit in the business of gems and jewels. 
8 Rekhas Attainment of all material happiness and prosperity. 


1. 


15. 


84 


Venus with six, seven or eight Rekhas gives prosperity to the native if it is situated in 
Lagna, fourth, fifth, seventh, ninth or tenth house. 


The native having Venus with four Rekhas in his sixth or twelfth house, enjoys wealth 
and prosperity and gets honour in the society. 


The native will be interested in music, if Venus having seven Rekhas is posited in his 
fourth house. 


Twelfth house is considered the best place for Venus. If posited in this house with 
more Rekhas having no demerits (neither retrograde, combust nor in a debilitated 
sign), it will prove to be very lucky. 


The native enjoys life with more than one wife if Venus with four Rekhas is posited in 
aTrikon. 


The native gets married in his very childhood, if he has Venus with four or more than 
four Rekhas in his seventh house. 


The native will marry with more than one woman and will have iove affairs with many 
women if Venus, posited in Trikon, has six or seven Rekhas, and is aspected by Mars. 


The native enjoys bliss of nice vehicles, if Venus with five or more than five Rekhas is 
posited in Lagna or tenth house not being retrograde, in a debilitated sign or combust. 


The native will definitely be rich, if there are five Rekhas in the sign twelfth from it is 
situated in (in Sukrashtaka Varga). See example horoscope. 


If Venus with more than five Rekhas is posited in Aries or Scorpio, the native will enjoy 
prosperity having a nice car. 


The native will marry the girl he likes, if Venus having eight Rekhas is posited in Trikon 
in his horoscope. 


The girl should be married in the month of the sign in which there are more and more 
Rekhas. 


The native will be rich, happy and prosperous, if Venus with more than five Rekhas is 
situated with Moon. 


The native will be married to a poor girl, if Venus, having more than four Rekhas, is 
situated in sixth or eighth house from Moon. 


Venus makes the native hate his wife if, having three or less than three Rekhas, it is 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25. 


situated in sixth, eighth or eleventh house from Lagna and Moon. 


The character of the native's wife will be dubious, if there is Mars in seventh house 
and the lord of seventh house is in the sign of Mars or Saturn. 


The native may have to face insult due to the ill conduct of his wife, if Venus, having 
four Rekhas and being retrograde is posited in seventh house. 
According to Shukrashtaka Varga, the cot of the wife should not be laid in the direction 
of the sign that has minimum Rekhas. To make it more clear, if the east direction has 
minimum Rekhas, the cot should be laid in the north or south. 


The family life of the native does not prove to be prosperous if Mars is in its own sign 
and Venus having five or more than five Rekhas is either in Aries or Scorpio. 


The native will have company of women of easy virtue, if Venus with two Rekhas is 
posited in seventh house and the lord of seventh house is combust. 


The native gets married to a blind girl or the girl turns blind only after a few years of 
marriage, if Venus, having zero, one or two Rekhas, is aspected by Mars or Saturn. 


The family life of the native will turn miserable, if he marries during the transit of the 
Sun over a sign having minimum Rekhas. 


The native will lead a happy, successful and prosperous life, if he marries in the direc- 
tion of the sign having maximum. 


The family life of the native will prove futile, if he marries in the direction of the sign 
which has minimum Rekhas. 


Multiply the Rekhas in the sign seventh from the sign in which Venus is situated by the 
Yog Pind of Shukrashtaka Varga and then divide the product by 27. Now count the 
remainder from Ashw. . The native will get married in the constellation coming 
thereby if the Sun transits over it. 


In example horoscope, Venus is in Gemini. Sagittarius is seventh from it, in which there are 
two Rekhas and the Yog Pind of Shukrashtaka Varga is 121. The calculation is as under : 


121 X2 =242/27 =8, the dividend, 26, the residue. Uttarabhadrapada is the 26" constella- 
tion from Ashwini. Therefore, the native should marry during the transit of Jupiter over 
Uttarabhadrapad. 


26. 


OR 


Multiply the total number of the Rekhas in the sign seventh from the Sun by the YOGA 
PINDA of Venus and then divide the Sum total thereof by 12. Calculate the residue 
from Aries. The native should marry in the transit of Jupiter over the sign coming after 
as a result calculation. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 85 


In example horoscope Venus is in the sign of Gemini Sagittarius is seventh from it. There 
are 2 Rekhas in it and the Yog Pind of Sukrashtaka Varga is 121. The calculation is as 
fallows. 


121X12 = 242/12 = 20, the quotient 2, the residue. Taurus is the second sign from Aries. 
Therefore the native should marry during the transit of Jupiter over Taurus. To find out the 
month of marriage, multiply the Rekhas in the seventh sign from both Venus and the Sun by 
the YOGAPINDA of Venus and divide product by 12. The residue denotes the sign and it will 
be wise to get married during the transit of the Sun over the said sign. 


In example horoscope mentioned earlier, both the Sun and Venus are in Gemini. Scorpio is 
the seventh sign from Gemini, in which there are 2 Rekhas. It comes 4 by multiplying 2 by 
2 since both the planets are together there in the same sign. Now it should be multiplied by 
121, the Yoga Pind of Venus and then the Product should be divided by 12. The calculation 
is as under. 


121X4 = 484/12 = 40, the quotient and 4, the residue. This residue stands for Cancer. The 
native should marry during the transit of the Sun over Cancer. 


28. Multiply the Rekhas in seventh sign from Jupiter by the Yog Pind of Venus and then 
divide the product by 27. Calculate the residue from Ashwini constellation. Any of the 
two (wife or husband) may die during the transit of Saturn over that constellation. 


In example horoscope, Jupiter is in Libra. Aries is the seventh sign from Libra, in which 
there are 6 Rekhas and the product of Shukrashtaka Varga is 121. Now, the Rekhas in Aries 
should be multiplied by 121 and then the product should be divided by 27. The calculation is 
as under: 121X6 = 726/27= 26, the quotient and 24, the residue. Shatbhisha is the 24" 
constellation from Ashwini. The wife may die during the transit of Saturn over Shatbhisha. 


29. The native may earn much profit in the trade of jeweleries. 

Shani Ashtaka Varga 

Analysis of Shani Ashtaka Varga should be made in the-following manner. 
Oline : Miserable plight. 

1 line : Loss of wealth and honour 

2 Rekhas : Normal health (neither good nor bad), laziness 

3 Rekhas : Worry for the son and trouble caused by wife. 

4 Rekhas : Progress with the help of others. 


5 Rekhas : The native happens to be rich and bliss of relatives are possible. 


86 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


7 Rekhas : Diplomat, ambassador or official or a cattle- breader. 


8 Rekhas : Millionaire or a capitalist, Headman of the villiage, MLA, MP or minister. 


1. 
2. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


The native will be shortlived, if Saturn with 2 or 3 Rekhas is posited in Trikon. 


The native leads a very miserable life like a pauper, if Saturn with less than three 
Rekhas is posited in Lagna. 


Even a capitalist may turn a pouper, if Saturn transits over a sign having Shunya 
Rekha. For example, in the horoscope of Stalin there is no lone in the sign of Scorpio 
in his Shani Ashtaka Varga. So he was sent to jail during the transit of Saturn over 
Scopio. 


If Saturn with four, five, six or seven Rekhas is posited in Lagna, the native will be poor 
by birth and will lead a miserable life. This has been mentioned in Jaataka Paarijaata 
also. 


The native has to face various troubles, if Saturn having five line) is posited in his 
Lagna. 


The native may earn much of wealth, if Saturn having eight Rekhas is posited in any of 
the houses excepting sixth, eighth or twelfth. He might be a minister as well. 


The native happnes to be poor and surrounded by hardships, if Saturn with five Rekhas 
is posited in fifth. 


During the old age of the native, he will have to lead a very miserable life, if Saturn is 
not of Libra, Capricorn or Aquarius and posited in fourth house having five or more 
than five Rekhas. 


Saturn with four or five Rekhas posited in its own sign in Trikon tells of gain of wealth 
from different sources. . 


Saturn is considered to be very benefic if posited in third, sixth, and ninth houses. In 
Aries, if Saturn is posited in any of the said houses having four Rekhas. the native will 
be a millionaire and renowned all over. 


A combust, retrograde or debilitated Saturn with three or four Rekhas situated in Lagna, 
second or twelfth house causes the native avery miserable life. 


If the lord of eighth house is conjoined with or aspected by Saturn and Lagna and if 
Saturn is with four Rekhas, the native happens to be a beggar. 


If the lord of the eighth house from Saturn is Saumga (generous) and is in Ashtaka 
Varga with more than five Rekhas, it makes the life of the native happy and prosper- 
ous. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 87 


14. Saturn having less than five Rekhas gives the native much wealth, if it is conjoined 
with Moon and is not in own or an exalted sign in Lagna. 


15. The native suffers from fits or epilepsy, if Saturn having more than four Rekhas is 
conjoined with Rahu. 


16. The native dies away from his place of birth, if Saturn has one or two Rekhas only. 
17. Saturn situated in Trikon with seven Rekhas makes the native wealthy. 


18. If Saturn is posited in a house with more than four Rekhas, it will cause delay in 
accomplishing the job of the family. To make it more clear, if Saturn is in seventh 
house, delay in marriage is possible. Likewise, if the same Saturn is situated in fifth 
house delay in birth of a child is imminent. 


19. The native goes on foreign trips frequently if Saturn is conjoined with the lord of tenth 
house or posited in tenth house having three Rekhas. 


20. The native earns much name and fame, if the lord of tenth house being strong is 
posited in Trikon and is not aspected by Saturn. 


21. The sum total of the Rekhas in between Lagna and the house Saturn is posited in 
stands for a year and the native will have to suffer much in that particular year. 


The Lagna of the example horoscope is Taurus and Saturn is in Cancer. In between 
Taurus and Cancer there are 9 Rekhas (in Shani Ashtaka Varga). So, the native had to 
suffer much in his ninth year of age. 


22. The sum total of the Rekhas in between Lagna and the sign Saturn is posited in 
stands for a year. The native will have to suffer much in that year of his age. 


In example horoscope, Saturn is in Cancer and Taurus is the Lgana . There are 38 Rekhas 
in between cancer and Taurus. So, the native had to face a great trouble during the 38" year 
of his age. 


23. If added, the said two two different parts of age i.e. 9 and 38 years make 47 (9+38=47). 
So also in the 47" year of his age, the native suffered a great deal. 


If there is Mark Dasha in any of these three different parts (9,38 and 47) of age said above 
even the death of the native is also possible. 


24. Multiply the sum total of the Rekhas in the house eighth from Saturn by the Yog Pind of 
Saturn and divide the product by 27. Now count residue from Ashwini to residue ob- 
tained to have the constellation. The native may die during the transit of Saturn over 
that constellation. The tenth and the nineteenth years from that constellation also 
prove to be fatal. 


In the example horoscope Saturn is in Cancer. Aquarius is eighth from Cancer. which has 
4 Rekhas. This total of Rekhas should further be multiplied by 182, the Yog Pind of Saturn. 


88 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Now, the product should be divided by 27. A calculation in this regard is given below to 
make it more clear. 


182X4 = 728 /27 = 26, the quotient and 26, the residue. 


From Ashwini, Uttarabharapada is the 26" constellation. So, the native may die, or may 
have to face a deadly affliction during the transit of Saturn over Uttarabhadrapada. 


The native will have to face some deadly afflictions also during the transit of Saturn over 
Punarvasu and Vishakha, the tenth and tenth and nineteenth constellations from 
Uttarabhadrapad respectively. 


Thus, the correct analysis of Saturn helps find correct results 
Sarvashtaka Varga 


The analysis of Sarvashtaka Varga is as essential as the analysis of the planets. As men- 
tioned above, Ashtaka Varga is not only authentic but reliable also for prediction. 


Amethod for prediction by Sarvashtaka Varga is given here under: 


1. A house is considered to be very weak if there are twenty or less than twenty Rekhas in 
it. So, the results related to the house will also be somewhat unfavourable. 


For instance, if the fifth or seventh house has twenty or less than twenty Rekhas, it will 
cause loss of bliss of son or delay in marriage or distress to the wife. 


2, Ahouse having 25 Rekhas is considered neither benefic nor malefic. 


3. A house having thirty or more than thirty Rekhas is said to be the best and the results 
related to that house are also considered to be benefic. 


4. Aplanet cannot be able to give good results even if it is in its own sign or in an exalted 
sign in Trikon and is a significator, if the house it is situated in has fewer of Rekhas in it. 


5. Results according to the number of Rekhas in different houses as mentioned in 
Maanasaagari are given below: 


Rekhas Results 

14 Deadly affliction 

15 Distressing 

16 Physical ailments 

17 Affliction 

18 Loss of wealth 

19 Disputes with relatives 
20 Expense 

21 Ailments 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 89 


22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 
31 
32-35 
36-40 
41-45 


Mental disorder 


Loss of wealth, affliction 


Sudden expense 
Neutral 
Agony 


Neither benefic nor malefic 
Happiness due to income 


Honour 


Expansion in sphere of status and respect. 


Enhancement in sphere of prosperity 


Prosperity 


Material happiness 
All round prosperity 


It has been noticed that each of the houses having Rekhas as mentioned below hap- 


pens to be benefic: 


Lagna 

Second house 
Third house 
Fourth house 
Fifth house 
Sixth house 
Seventh house 
Eighth house 
Ninth house 
Tenth house 
Eleventh house 
Twelfth house 
Total 


28 Rekhas 
27 Rekhas 
33 Rekhas 
32 Rekhas 
27 Rekhas 
38 Rekhas 
25 Rekhas 
24 Rekhas 
33 Rekhas 
38 Rekhas 
57 Rekhas 
24 Rekhas 
386 Rekhas 


It is essential to mention here that a very few horoscopes have been found having 57 Rekhas 
in their eleventh and 24 Rekhas in Vyaya Bhava respectively. The eleventh house is consid- 
ered to be much benefic if it has Rekhas one and a half times more than the Rekhas in the 
twelfth. Similarly, the eleventh house having Rekhas one and a half times more than the 


90 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Rekhas in the tenth house is benefic. 


For instance, the native will have bliss of land, vehicle, property and mother, if he has 32 
Rekhas in his fourth house. Thus he will be very prosperous. 


7. Four houses of a horoscope are very important Lagna, ninth, tenth and eleventh. The 
native will remain pauper-all through his life, if any of the said four houses in his 
horoscope has less than twenty-four Rekhas. 


8. The native happens to be lucky, if the sum total of the Rekhas of Lagna. third, ninth 
and eleventh houses is more than the sum total of that of the sixth, eighth, twelfth and 
second houses whereas in reverse case, he proves to be a pauper. 


9. After the year of age equal to the sum total of Rekhas in Lagna, the native earns 
wealth, status, respect and honour. 


10. Ifthe signs in which Moon, the Sun and Lgan are posited, has more than thirty Rekhas 
the native will be brave and renowned. 


11. The native happens to be very rich, if there are more than thirty Rekhas in second, 
ninth, tenth or eleventh house. 


12. The native enjoys the bliss of house and vehicle; if the fourth house and the house the 
lord of fourth house is posited in, have more than thirty Rekhas each. 


13. The native will live upto the year of his age equal to the sum total of Rekhas in Lagna, 
if the lord of twelfth house is in the sign of Saturn and the lord of Lgana is weak. 


14. The native has to suffer insult at every step, if the third house has less than twenty 
Rekhas and it is aspected by Saturn. 


15. To find out as to which part of age of the native will be the most prosperous, all the 
twelve signs should be categorized in three categories : 


1. From Pieces to Gemini 
2. | From Cancer to Libra 
3. From Scorpio to Aquarius 


Make out the sum total of the Rekhas of these signs. First category or part signifies child- 
hood; the second signifies youth and the third signifies old age (senility). The category 
having more than the others Rekhas proves to be more prosperous. 


In example horoscope 


1. Rekhas from Pisces to Gemini- Childhood-48+35+32+25=140 
2. Rekhas from Cancer to Libra- Youth-344+34+27+38= 133 
3. | Rekhas from Scorpio to Aquarius- Old age (senility)-28+20+26+39 = 113 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 91 


Thus the calculation made above shows that the childhood of the native is the most jyous, 
the youth will be neither prosperous nor woeful but he will have to suffer to same extent in 
his old age. 


However, any of the Categories having 128 Rekhas should be considered prosperous. 
Less than 128 Rekhas mean abatement in prosperity. 


16. There is one more theory according to which all the twelve houses from Lagna should 
be classified into three categories each categoriy having four houses. The category 
having Rekhas more than the other two should be considered the most benefic. 


In example horoscope : 
Childhood- From Lagna to fourth house 32+25+34+34= 125 
Youth- From fifth to eighth house ' 274+38+28+20= 113 
- Old age- From ninth to twelfth 26+39+48+35 = 148 
This theory is nearly accurate more than the others 


17. According to one more theory the houses should be classified into three categories 
each having four Rekhas. But the Rekhas of eighth and twelfth houses should not be 
counted. Thus calculated, the category having Rekhas more than the others should 
be considered the most benefic. 


Childhood-(Balyavastha) From Lagna to fourth house 32+25+34434=125 
Youth- (Yauvanavastha) From fifth to eighth house 27+38+28+00=93 
Old age (Vriddhavastha) 


From ninth to twelfth = 26+39+48+00=113 


Shunyais added up to eighth and twelfth houses even if there are Rekhas in them. Accord- 
ing to this calculation, the childhood is the most benefic. But, practically this theory has not 
been found to be accurate. 


18., The directions of signs that may prove to be fit for the advent of luck are mentioned 
hereunder: 


East-Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 
South- Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn 
West- Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 
North- Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 


Add up the Rekhas of the signs. The direction having Rekhas more than the others will 
prove to be auspicious for the native to start business or to go on trip in that direction. 


In example horoscope : 
East - 35+34+20 = 89 


92 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


South- 324+27+26 = 85 
West — 25+38+439=102 
North- 34+28+35 = 97 
The calculation shows that the West will be the auspicious direction for the native. This 


theory is not much accurate. One more method is there, which is more authentic than the 
it. The method is as follows: 


The East is meant for Lagna, fifth and ninth, South for tenth, sixth and second, West for 
seventh, third and eleventh and North is meant for fourth eighth and Vijay. 
East-32+27+26=85 
South-89+38+25=102 
West-28+34+448=110 
North-34+20+35=89 


19. The native happens to be an officer or a minister, if the lord of Lagna is in fourth house 
and the lord of fourth house is in Lgna and both the houses have thirty Rekhas. 


20. The native will be very rich and renowned, if any of the lagna, fourth and fifth houses 
has more than thirty Rekhas. 


21. The lady luck will start smiling on the native after he completes 28" year of his life, if 
the fourth and ninth houses have Rekhas any where in between 25 to 30 each. 


22. The native will be happy and prosperous, if the lord of Lagna is in fourth house and the 
lord of fourth house is in Lagna and both Lgana and fourth house have more than 
thirty Rekhas each. 


23. The native will be a millionaire, if Mars is in its own sign, the Sun is in Lagna and Jupiter 
with more than forty Rekhas is in fourth house. 


24. The stronger is Lgana the more the native rises. 


25. Add up the Rekhas from Lagan to Saturn and from Saturn to Lagna. Likewise, add up 
the Rekhas from Lagna to Mars and from Mars to Lagna. Again, add up the Rekhas 
from Lagna to Rahu the same way/Multiply the sum total thus obtained by 7 and the 
product by 27. 


The quotient will show as to which year will prove to be malefic creating there by troubles, 
hindrances etc. to the native. Now count from Ashwini to the sum of residue. The native will 
have to face some major trouble during the transit of the planeton the constellation that falls 
on residue. obtained stands. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 93 


Example horoscope : 

1. Saturn is in cancer and Taurus is the Lagna. Add up the Rekhas from Taurus to Can- 
cer and divide the sum total by 27 in the following manner. 
324254+34=91/27=23, the quotient and 16, the residue. 

1. The native will have to face some major trouble during the 23" year of his age. 

2. Vishakha is the 16” constellation. So, the native will have to suffer a lot during the 
transit of Saturn over Vishakha. 

2. Calculation of the Rekhas from Cancer, the sign of Saturn to Taurus, the sign of 
Lagna- 
344+344274+384284+20+264+39+484+35+32 
= 361X7 = 2527/27=93, the quotient and 16, the residue. 

The native will have to suffer a lot during the 93” year of his age. He will also have to suffer 

during the transit of Saturn over Vishakha. Same is the case with Mars and Rahu also. 


26. Add up the Rekhas from Lagnato Jupiter and from Jupiter to Lagna. Multiply the Sum 
total thus obtained by 7 and then divide the product by 27. The quotient will be the year 
and the remainder the time of advent of good luck. 


324+25+344+274+38=190. 
Sum total of the Rekhas from the Lagna to sign posited in Jupiter : 
38+28+4+20+26439+48+35+32=266 
190X7 = 1330/27 = 49 
Remainder 7 = Punarvasu constellation. 
The native will have an advent of good luck in 49" year of his age and the period of Punarvasu 
consitellation will prove to be very auspicious and favourable whenever Jupiter transits over 
the same. 
266X7=1 862/27 = 68 
26 is the remainder. It means that Uttarabhadrapad will be the 26" constellation. 
This shows that the 68" year of the native will prove to be favourable for him when he will 
have an advent of good luck. Constellation Uttarabhadrapad will also prove to be auspicious 
for him and will make him rise whenever Jupiter transits over it. 
27. Lagna, fourth and eleventh houses are considered to be favourable if they have more 
than thirty Rekhas. 
28. Both fourth and ninth houses having thirty to thirty two Rekhas presage advent of 
good luck in the 28" year of age of the native. 
29. The native will be a millionaire having a nice vehicle if the Sun in his horoscope is in 
Aries and Jupiter with forty Rekhas is posited in Cancer. 
30. The native will be a millionaire if Lagna in his horoscope has forty Rekhas and Mars, 
Jupiter and Venus are in an exalted sign. 


94 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


6. Prediction of transit by Ashtak Varg 


In prediction of transit, the Moon has got its own importance-more than the other planets. 
By transit i.e. Gochar we come to know as to which planet is currently transiting over a sign 


In a broader sense, transit is the base of Ashtak Varg. The Moon is the lord of mind. It should 
be given much importance since it is the fastest among all the planets. But other planets 
also have their own importance. Prediction is made also by the sign the Moon is posited in, 
taking it as Lagn like it is done by horoscope. 


In example horoscope, Taurus is the Lagna and Moon is posited in it. So, the transit predic- 
tion will be authentic and in conformity with the rules or theory of transit, if it is made by 
considering Taurus the Lagna, Gemini the sign of wealth, Cancer the sign of valour 
(Parakram)etc. 


Planets situated in the following houses from Moon Lagna or from the Lagna of horoscope 
render favourable results. 


Sun- 3,6,10,11 

Moon- 1,2,6,7,10,11 

Mars- 3,6,7 

Mercury- 2,4,6,8,10,11 
Jupiter- 2,5,7,9,11 

Venus- 1,2, 3, 4,5, 8,9, 11, 12 
Saturn - 3,6,11 

Rahu- 3, 6, 10, 14 

Ketu- 3,6,1011 


Inthe example horoscope, Moon is in Taurus. Therefore, Taurus is the Moon Lagn. The Sun 
will render favourable result when it will be in Cancer the third sign from Taurus. 


Here, it has to be kept in mind that the Sun will shower its influence directly on the planet 
posited in the house seventh from the Sun and in turn that planet will also shower its influ- 
ence on the Sun directly. In this process the Sun will lose its benignity and will not render 
favourable result even if it is posited in third house. 


The auspicious and obstructing houses of each of the planets are mentioned below: 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 95 


Sun 
Auspicious houses - 3, 6, 10, 11 
Obstructing houses - 9, 12, 4, 5 


lt means that the third house is auspicious for the Sun. But the ninth house having a planet 
(excepting Saturn, as Saturn is the son of the Sun and no obstruction i.e. Vedh takes place 
between father and son) will prove to be obstructing to the Sun and hence the Sun will lose 
its benignity. 


Similarly, the Sun in sixth house will lose its benignity if there is a planet in twelfth house. 
Again, if the Sun is in tenth, it is benefic, but it will lose its benignity if there is a planet or 
planets in fourth house. Likewise, the Sun situated in eleventh house will lose its benignity if 
there is a planet in fifth house. 


Moon 
Auspicious houses — 1,3, 6,11 ‘ 
Obstructing houses — 12, 9, 5 
Mars 
Auspicious Houses - 3, 6, 11 
Obstructing Houses - 12, 9, 5 
Mercury 
Auspicious houses - 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11 
Obstructing houses - 5, 3, 9, 1, 8, 12 
Jupiter 
Auspicious houses-2, 5, 7, 9, 11 
Obstructing houses- 12, 4, 3, 10, 8 
Venus 
Auspicious houses - 1, 2, 3, 4,5, 8, 9, 11, 12 
Obstructing houses — 8, 7, 1, 10,9, 5, 11,3, 6 
Saturn 
Auspicious houses - 3, 6, 11 
Obstructing houses - 12, 9, 5 


Prediction of transit is based on Moon horoscope (Chandra Kundali) i.e. the birth sign. To 
make prediction of the first house of the Sun means that the sign the Moon is posited in is 
the first house. So, the Sun will give result according to the sign it is posited in. 


96 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


House wise transit result of the Sun. 


1. 


11. 


12. 


The native will have loss of wealth, unwanted trouble and hurdles in accomplishing 
what he undertakes during the transit of the Sun over the first house. He will suffer 
from pain in chest and will keep going on travels without any purpose. He will be short- 
tempered. 


The Sun transiting over second house causes loss or misuse of wealth, lack of hap- 
piness and problem in eyes to the native. He happens to be obstinate by nature. 
Some people might cheat him. 


The native will have sudden gain of wealth, good news from distant places and win 
over enemies during the transit of the Sun over the third house. He will win court 
cases against him and will remain happy as well. 


The Sun transiting over the fourth house causes painful family life, laziness and dis- 
eases. Dispute between the native and his wife is possible. He will have to face hurdles 
in accomplishing his jobs. 


During the transit of the Sun over the fifth house, the native will be weak by health and 
will have to face hurdles in accomplishing his jobs. The sphere of his enemies will 
enhance further. Mental agony is also possible. 


The native will win over his enemies during the transit of the Sun over sixth house. He 
will win court cases against him. He will enjoy good health and will remain happy. 


The native will suffer from problems in stomach and private parts, if the seventh house 
of his horoscope is under the transit of the Sun. Besides, he will suffer from piles and 
mental ailments. Loss of dignity and aimless travels are possible. He will be a pauper. 


During the transit of the Sun over eighth house, the native will have difference of 
opinions with the people in the society and in his office. He will at be odds with his wife 
and will suffer from different diseases. 


The native will have dispute with his friends and relatives during the transit of the Sun 
over ninth house. He will be a pauper and will have to face troubles. He may suffer 
loss in business. Accident, problems in stomach and mental ailment are also pos- 
sible. 


During the transit of the Sun over 10" house the native will achieve his desired goal. 


The native will earn name and fame and financial gain during the transit of the Sun 
over eleventh house. He will be free from diseases and will emerge successful at 
every step. He will achieve his desired goal. 


The transit of the Sun over twelfth house proves to be auspicious. The native by his 
good deeds and proper remedies will emerge successful at every step during this 
period of transit. He will prove to be a man of firm character, but he might face agonies 
and distresses caused by his enemies. Mental ailment is also possible. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 97 


Results that the Moon gives while in transit 


The house wise results that the Moo gives while in transit from its Birth sign are mentioned 
below: 


1. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


In first house, the Moon augurs success injob, enhancement in happiness and pros- 
perity and good news from a distant place. 


While in second, it causes disrepute, dispute without any reason, mental agony, mis- 
use of money, financial loss and troubles. 


The native having Moon in third house wins in court cases and over enemies. He 
enjoys a happy and prosperous family life and the sphere of prosperity gets enhanced. 
Financial gain and bright future are also possible. 


The Moon in fourth house causes fear from state, worries, perturbation, loss while in 
journey, hurdles in accomplishing jobs and mental tension. 


While in fifth house, the Moon causes unwanted worries, griet etc. The native goes on 
travel without any reason in this period. However, he enjoys financial gain. 


In sixth house, the Moon tells of enhancement in the sphere of happiness and pros- 


. perity, good health, win over enemies, win in litigation etc. 


The native having Moon in seventh house gets honour and the sphere of his happi- 
ness and prosperity may enhance. Accomplishment of such a job or an agreement is 
possible that may earn benefit and financial gain in future. 


While in eighth house, the Moon causes hurdles, worries and unfavourable results. 
Hurdles in accomplishing what all the native undertakes are also possible. 


In ninth hourse, the Moon causes mental tension, problems in stomach, financial 
loss, aimless travels etc. 


The Moon transiting in tenth house augurs success, accomplishment jobs the native 
under takes, wory free life happiness, enthusiasm, cooperation from higher officials 
fulfilment of desires etc. 


The native will have new friends, success in job and business and good news, if the 
Moon is trasittirig in his tenth house. He will overcome his hurdles and hardships. 


In twelfth house, the Moon causes possibility of accident, injuries on the body caused 
by enemies, unwanted expenses, worries and hardships. 


House wise results of Mars while in transit 


1. 
2. 


98 


Mars transiting in first house causes hardships, hurdles, financial loss and worries. 


The native will have to face troubles caused by the government or the high ranking 
Officials, if Mars is in the second house of his horoscope. Dispute and mental agony 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


10. 


11. 


12. 


are possible. His enemies may cause loss. Trouble in speech, headache, mental 
tension etc. are also possible. 


Mars in third house tells of success in whatever the native undertakes. Financial gains, 
friendship with high ranking officials and cooperation from them, gain of wealth and 
win over enemies are possible. 


If in fourth house, Mars causes loss of job or the person may not have a desired 
position. He may suffer from fever, problems in stomach and abnormal blood pres- 
sure. Hurdles in accomplishing auspicious exercises and disputes with relative are 
possible. 


Enemies of the native become stronger and overpowering if Mars transits in his fifth 
house. He may suffer from fever. Worries, hurdles in accomplishing jobs, difference 
of oppinions with the relatives and dispute with sons are also possible. 


The native wins over his enemies or compromise between them is possible, if Mars is 
transiting in his sixth house. He remaims free from diseases during this period. Suc- 
cess in whatever he undertakes and favourable situations are imminent. 


Mars in seventh house causes dispute with wife and in laws. It also causes eye prob- 
lems, problems in stomach, abnormal blood pressure or blood related diseases. 


While transiting in eighth house, Mars causes anemia, high blood pressure, deterio- 
ration in diseases etc. It also causes possibility of accident, injuries on the head, loss 
of wealth and unwanted travel. Enemies of the native cause him trouble and trouble- 
some situations grow further against him. 


Mars transiting in the ninth house of the native causes him loss in honour and dignity 
and loss of wealth and physical weakness. He suffers from loss of virility. He has to 
face various types of hurdles. 


Iftransiting in the tenth house, Mars causes obstacles in auspicious exercises to be 
performed in the family of the native. He may prove to be unsuccessful even if he 
works hard. 


While transiting in the eleventh house, Mars creates some favourable situations for 
the native and speaks of unexpected success in whatever he undertakes. He earns 
name and fame and financial gains and wins over his enemies. He also wins the faith 
of his officials. 


If in twelfth house, Mars causes loss of health, unwanted dispute, eye problems, 
dispute with relatives and worries. 


House wise effects of Mercury while in transit. 


1. 


While transiting in the first house, Mercury causes loss of wealth and troubles to the 
native. He has to face unwanted worries during this period caused due to the wrong 
counsel of some unworthy people. He cannot achieve his target even if he goes on 
trip for the same. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 99 


2. Hurdles and troubles are possible in accomplishing what all the native undertakes, if 
Mercury transits over his second house. Some sad news related to any of his rela- 
tives may jolt him. However, financial gain is imminent. 


3. Enemies of the native will cause him loss, if Mercury transits in his third house. 
Disfavour from state, troubles from officials, unwanted dispute, mental agony aim- 
less travels etc. are possible during this period. 


4. Pending work will be expedited during this period of Mercury transiting in the fourth 
house of the native. Financial gain, mitigation of hardships, good news about rela- 
tives, mental happiness etc. are possible. 


5. While transiting in fifth house, Mercury causes disrespect from the sons, dispute in 
family and mental agony. Troubles grow further during this period. 


6. Mercury transiting in the sixth house of the native makes him accomplish whatever he 
undertakes He gets name, fame and respect in the society. 


7. While transiting in the 7" house, Mercury causes deterioration in skin disease if the 
native is suffering from. it also causes high blood pressure, differences with near and 
dear ones, hurdles, worries etc. 


8. _ Iftransiting in eighth house, Mercury tells of increase in the number of members of the 
family. Some auspicious exercises may take place in the family. Gain of wealth is 
possible and pending work will be expedited. The native will get success in business. 


9. While transiting in ninth house Mercury causes mental troubles and delay in financial 
gain. Hardships and hurdles in auspicious functions are also possible. 


10. Transiting in the tenth house of the native causes humiliations to his enemies. On the 
other hand the native himself will succeed in business. The planet in this situation tells 
of accommodation of wealth, enhancement in material happiness and cooperation 
from true friends of the native. 


11. The native will have bliss of progeny and benefit from them during this period of Mer- 
cury transiting in eleventh house. 


12. Defeat at the hand of enemies, hurdles in cooperation from friends futile travels are 
possible if. Mercury transits in the twelfth house of the native. He will be diseased and 
will have to face troubles in family life. 


House wise effects of Jupiter while in transit 


1. Transiting in the first house of the native, Jupiter causes financial loss, sudden ob- 
stacles, wrath of holy spirits etc. Long journey and loss of wealth are possible. 


2. The native enjoys material happiness during this period of Jupiter transiting in his 
second house. Prosperity in family, financial gain and success in influencing others 
are possible. 


100 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


10. 


11. 


12. 


While transiting in the third house of the horoscope of the native Jupiter causes dete- 
rioration status hurdles in his jobs, disrepute and financial loss. A sense of wandering 
aimlessly develops in him during this period. 


Transiting in fourth house, Jupiter tells of conspiracy plotted against the native by his 
relatives. Injuries on body caused by some four footed animal is possible. He will also 
have to bear the adverse outcome of his deeds performed earlier. 


Jupiter transiting over fifth house of the native tells of birth of a son child, bliss of 
progeny, overall development, benefit from state and favourable time. 


Transiting in sixth house, Jupter causes dispute with cousins, worsening ailments, 
mental tension, inimical behaviour from friends and financial loss. 


Jupiter transiting over seventh house augurs greater happiness and prosperity, good 
health, gain, etc. The native may purchase a vehicle and his art of oration may im- 
prove. 


While transiting in eighth house, Jupiter causes ailments worsening further, journey in 
vain, hurdles in accomplishing jobs and many other problems. Financial loss is also 
possible. 


The sphere of happiness and prosperity of the native enhances further during the 
transit of Jupiter in his ninth house. Advent of luck and enhancement in the sphere of 
influence, courage, repute, name and fame are also possible. 


If transiting in tenth house, Jupiter causes loss in business, hurdles in accomplishing 
jobs, retrenchment from post, hurdles in promotion, worries for children etc. Some 
sad news is also possible. 


Jupiter transiting in eleventh house of the native augurs off good health, bliss of son 
child or benefit from the son, enhancement in repute and name and fame etc. 


While transiting in twelfth house, Jupiter causes hurdles in achieving goal, financial 
loss, fear, worries and bad dreams. 


Effects of Venus while transiting in different houses 


1. 


Transiting in first house, Venus augurs enhancement in the sphere of happiness and 
prosperity, financial gain and favourable opportunities. 


The native will have financial gain during the transit of Venus in his second house. 
This will give him mental happiness, income from different sources etc. He will enjoy 
a happy life and will achieve his goal. 


While transiting in third house, Venus presages financial gains, success in business, 
respect, and name and fame. 


The native will establish friendship with new people during the transit of 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 101 


10. 


11. 


12. 


Venus in his fourth house. He will have gain from his friends and will win over his 
enemies. His economic condition will improve further. 


Venus transiting in the fifth house indicates that the native will enjoy bliss of children. 
Birth of a child in family is possible. Financial gain and name and fame are imminent. 
The virtuous deeds of his children will earn him respect during this period. 


The transit of Venus in sixth house will create a pleasure and favourable environment 
around the native. But some hurdles in accomplishing his jobs are also possible. 


Venus transiting in seventh house causes dispute with wife and deterioration in her 
health. Accident and trouble from in laws are possible. 


While transiting in the eight house of the native, Venus causes him mental trouble, 
infamy, financial loss etc. During this period, he proves to be a man of lose character, 
wandering aimlessly. Besides, he fails in achieving his goal. 


During the transit of Venus in ninth house, the native will build or buy a building, or 
some favourable situation for the same will create. Profit in property dealing is pos- 
sible. Enhancement in the sphere of happiness and prosperity is imminet. For 
unmarrieds, chances of marriage will crop out. 


Transiting in the tenth house Venus makes the native influential more than before. He 
earns name, fame and respect in the society. But differences with near and dear 
ones, dispute in family, increase in expenses etc. are possible. However, he becomes 
much interested in spiritual exercises. 


While transiting in eleventh house, Venus causes downfall, ruin, defeat from enemies, 
dispute with relatives, various types of troubles etc. 


Transiting in twelfth house Venus indicates that the native will have gain from new 
friends, financial gains, mental happiness etc. 


House wise transit result of Saturn 


1. 


102 


While transiting in the first house, Saturn gives malefic results. The native may con- 
sume poison, or there might be some poisonous attacks on his body. Accident, con- 
spiracy by the members of the family, inimical behaviour from fiends etc. are pos- 
sible. Overseas trip, transfer, disrespect etc. are also imminent. He will develop in 
him a sense of telling lie. He will stay away from home. 


Transiting in second house Saturn causes deterioration in ailments, diseases of dif- 
ferent types, loss of wealth, insult, hurdles, delay in child birth, etc. It also causes 
hurdles in accomplishing whatever the native undertakes. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


3. Income, new sources of business, income from different sources, expansion of the 
sphere of happiness and prosperity of the native etc. are possible during the transit of 
Saturn over third house. Appointment or transfer to a place of liking, expansion in the 
realm of business are imminent. Besides, all types of auspicious functions are per- 
formed in the family. 


4. The native stays aloof from his family, if Saturn transits in his fourth house. He will 
have difference and dispute with his friends also and will have no faith in them. Sabo- 
taging tendencies get encouraged. Emotions get glozed. 


5.  Transiting in fifth house Saturn causes sudden loss, hurdles in business, defamation, 
loss of a child, hurdles from children, mental tension etc. 


6. Saturn gives some favourable results during its transit in sixth house of the native. He 
wins over his enemies, earns popularity among friends and relatives, enjoys good 
health, wins in litigations and overcomes hardships during this period. Besides, he 
develops a sense of fascination towards opposite sex. 


7. — Transiting in seventh house, Saturn causes the native hurdles in accomplishing his 
jobs, dispute with wife, separation from children and difference with his friends. He 
keeps on wandering aimlessly. 


8. The native will have mental happiness and will be able to overcome his hardships 
during the transit of Saturn in eighth house. But loss of bliss of child, abortion, loss of 
livestock, dispute with friends, strife, theft, loss of health, irritation in nature etc. are 
also possible. 


9. Saturn transiting in ninth house causes miserable plight, loss of wealth, hurdles in 
auspicious functions, defamation, death of an old person in the family, agony, worries 
and loss in business etc. 


10. Transiting in tenth house, Saturn causes disrespect, financial loss etc. He/She loses 
his/her character during this period. He/She remains perturbed due to financial loss. 


11. Changes in mood, hindrances in jobs undertaken, troubles and problems etc. are 
possible during the transit of Saturn in eleventh house. However, gain of wealth is also 
possible by evil acts, fraudulent, bribery etc. 


12. Saturn transiting in twelfth house, keeps the natives indulged in futile activities. It causes 
misuse of time, financial loss, loss of health, loss in business, distress to wife and 
children etc. The native keeps wandering during this period. He has to face defeat at 
the hand of his enemies. 


House wise transit result of Rahu 


1. While transiting in first hoouse, Rahu causes physical weakness and various types of 
troubles and agonies. 


2. _ If transiting in second house, Rahu causes loss or misuse of wealth and loss of bliss 
in the family as well. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 103 


3. During the transit of Rahu in third house, the native will have gain of wealth from 
different sources and the sphere of his valour will expand further. 


4. The native will have to suffer much during the transit of Rahu in fourth house. Acci- 
dent and trouble caused a by vehicle are also possible. 


5.  Rahu transiting in fifth house causes loss of wealth, loss of bliss of child or pain to 
children. 


6. The sphere of happiness,-feputation and respect of the native will expand further 
during the transit of Rahu in sixth house. 


7. During the transit of Rahu in seventh house, loss of health, loss of bliss of conjugal life 
and dispute are possible. 


8.  Transiting in eighth house, Rahu causes deadly pain, pain during travels etc. It makes 
the native wander aimlessly. 


9. The native has to face financial loss during the transit of Satur in ninth house. Be- 
sides, he turns. 


10. Gain of wealth, benefit from state or from the state officials etc. are possible during 
the transit of Rahu in tenth house. 


11. The sphere of wealth and prosperity gets enhanced during the transit of Rahu in 
eleventh house. Cooperation from leaders is also possible. 


12. Rahu transiting in twelfth house causes suddeh expenses and expenses over trip to 
alien lands. 


Thus, an analysis of the effects of the planets in transit has been mentioned above. In 
Ashtaka varga, this analysis is very important that makes an astrologer find out the authen- 
ticity accurately. But it is also advised to note the strength of the planets while making 
prediction. A planet will give wealth, happiness and benefits if it has eight liens, but if it has 
no line, it will cause agony, hurdles or distress. 


A short description on what all results the planets with different Rekhas can give is given 
here under. 


Sun 
8 Rekhas : Having 8 Rekhas, the Sun happens to be favourable and gives wealth. 
7 Rekhas : The Sun with 7 Rekhas gives mental happiness, name, fame and wealth. 


6 Rekhas : With 6 Rekhas, the Sun augurs that the person will progress and will be elevated 
to a higher post. 


5 Rekhas : The Sun with 5 Rekhas enhances the sphere of wealth and property of the 
person. Ke may have gain of land and vehicle. 


104 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


4 Rekhas : Neutral, that means that the person will have neither malefic nor benefic ef- 
fects of the Sun. Time for him remains normal. 


3 Rekhas : The person having Sun with 3 Rekhas will have to face problems before get- 


ting success. 

2 Rekhas : The person will have loss caused due to his own stupid actions in this position 
of the Sun. 

1 line : The Sun with one line causes terrible or deadly affliction. 


Here the effects of the Sun with different Rekhas have been mentioned. An example is 
being cited to make it more clear. If the Sun is in transit in the first house, .it will cause 
financial loss, unwanted trouble etc. 


But if the Sun has eight Rekhas, some favourable circumstances will come up in spite of 
troubles prevailing around. The result will be the same as said above, if the Sun is with four 
Rekhas. But the Sun will shower its most adverse effect, if it has only one or no line. 


Therefore, an astrologer should make a deep study of the Sun before making prediction. 
Study of all the other planets should be made the way it has been done with the Sun. Now 
the prediction of the effects of the rest of the rest of the planets with or without Rekhas is 
given below. 


Moon 


8 Rekhas : Moon with 8 Rekhas augurs mental happiness, cooperation from relatives 
and benefits. 

7 Rekhas : The person will have cooperation from his relatives and he will accomplish his 
jobs successfully. 

6 Rekhas : Benefit from higher officials. success in administrative job is imminet. 

5 Rekhas : The sphere of courage and reputation enhances further. 

4 Rekhas : Moon with 4 Rekhas causes HI health. 

3 Rekhas : Dispute with relatives is possible. 

2 Rekhas : Moon having 2 Rekhas causes loss of wealth. 


1 line : All the labour of the person prove to be futile. 
0 line : The Moon without a line keeps the person surrounded by agonies. 
Mars 


8 Rekhas : Property dealing and trade in machinery prove to be profitable. 
7 Rekhas : Cooperation from brothers and friends is possible. 


6 Rekhas : The person with Mars having 6 Rekhas gets benefit from state, administration 
and administrative officials. 


5 Rekhas : Enhancement in the sphere of world by happiness is expected. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 105 


4 Rekhas : 
3 Rekhas : 
2 Rekhas : 


1 line 


0 line 


8 Rekhas : 


7 Rekhas : 


6 Rekhas : 


5 Rekhas : 
4 Rekhas : 


3 Rekhas 
2 Rekhas 
1 line 
0 line 


8 Rekhas : 


7 Rekhas : 


6 Rekhas : 
5 Rekhas : 
4 Rekhas : 


3 Rekhas 


1 line 


Oline 


8 Rekhas 


106 


Normal - no profit no loss. 

Dispute in family 

Mars with two Rekhas causes dispute with wife and the person remains wor- 
ried about his children. 


: The person suffers much from blood related diseases. 


Mars having no Rekhas causes fire, stomach problems and accident. 


Mercury 
Mercury with 8 Rekhas earns the person honour from state and name and 
fame as well. 


The person may have a gain of wealth and his financial position improves 
further, 

The person having Mercury with 6 Rekhas succeeds in what all he under- 
takes. 

Gain from relatives is possible. 

Mercury with 4 Rekhas makes the person more and more enthusiast. 


: With 3 Rekhas, Mercury causes misuse of money. 
: The person having Mercury with 2 Rekhas suffers from different diseases. 
: The person may suffer from skin disease. 


Mercury without a line causes sudden loss of wealth and loss of honour. 
Jupiter 


The person earns honour, name and fame, if he has Jupiter with 8 Rekhas. 
Gain of wealth is also possible. 


Jupiter with 7 Rekhas renders happiness and the person earns income from 
different sources. 


The person may have a new vehicle. 
Win, over enemies and in court cases is possible. 
Normal - neither good nor bad. 


: Jupiter with 3 Rekhas causes mental agony or depression. 
2 Rekhas : 


Dishonour from state or demotion from post or transfer is possible. 


: Jupiter with one line causes loss or misuse of wealth. 
: Jupiter having to line makes the person face troubles. 


Venus 


: Successful love affairs or conjugal life is possible. The native enjoys all round 


worldly happiness. 


Ashiak Varg Siddhant 


7 Rekhas : Venus with 7 Rekhas tells of bliss of clothes, ornaments or the things related 


to worldly happiness. 
6 Rekhas : Venus is this condition makes the person happy and euthusiast. 
5 Rekhas : Cooperation from friends, relatives or colleagues is imminent. 
4 Rekhas : Mixed results- neither favourable nor unfavourable. 
3 Rekhas : Venus with 3 Rekhas causes dispute with the relatives of the native. 


2 Rekhas : Loss in service is possible. The native may suffer from different diseases. 


1 line : The native may get hurt from water 
0 line : The native proves unsuccessful in whatever he undertakes.. 
Saturn 


8 Rekhas : The native having Saturn with 8 Rekhas succeeds in administrative and major 
jobs entrusted to him. 

7 Rekhas : Gain from servants, colleagues or subordinates. 

6 Rekhas : The sphere of name and fame of the native enhances further 

5 Rekhas : Saturn in this condition augurs bliss of wealth and prosperity. 

4 Rekhas : Mixed results-neither good nor bad. 

3 Rekhas : Loss or misuse of wealth is possible. 


2 Rekhas : In this condition of Saturn, the native may suffer from different diseases. He 
may have to go to jail or might indulge in litigation. 


1 line : The native may face stigma and charges may be framed against him. 
Oline Any disease or physical weakness the native is suffering from will deteriorate 
further. 


Significant effects of the planets 


The question is when do the planets shower their benefic or malefic effects on native. A sign 
has 30 degrees (Amshas). It means that a planet enters the next sign after it passes 30 
degrees (Amshans) in the sing it is situated in. A description on which planet showers what 
effects on what degree is given here under. 


Sun: While moving in between 1 to 10 degrees. 


Moon: In between 20 to 30 degrees 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 107 


Mars: In between 10to 20 degrees. 

Jupiter: In the middle of the sign i.e. in between 10to 20 degrees. 
Venus: Same as what Jupiter gives. 

Sauirn : Gives results same what the Moon does. 

Rahu : Showers its effects same as Mercury does. 


Earlier words like deterioration in disease, diseases etc. have been mentioned. Now the 
question arises as to which part of the body will the disease affect. To find out the answer of 
this question, it has to be kept in mind that in which constellation the planet concerned is 
transiting. The part of the body to be affected by a disease can be ascertained only by the 
constellation. 


A description in this regard is given below mentioning there in the part or parts of the body to 
be affected by disease or diseases in different constellations according to the effects of the 
planets. 


Sun 

1. Ashwini, the first consteelation - Face. 

2, 2", 3'%, 4" and 5" constellation - Head 

3. 6", 7", 8" and 9" constellation Chest or heart 

4. 10%, 11", 12" and 13" constellation - Right hand 
5. 14", 15", 16", 17", 18" and 19" constellation - Both legs. 
6. 20", 21%, 22"¢ and 23” constellation - Left hand. 
7. 24" and 25" constellation - Both eyes. 

8. 26" and 27" constellation - Private part. 

Moon 

1. 1%, and 2 constellation - Face. 

2. 3°, 4", 5" and 6" constellation - Head. 

3. 7" and 8" constellation - Back. 

4. 7the and 10" constellation - Both eyes. 

5. 11'", 12", 13", 14" and 15" constellation= Heart. 
6. 16", 17", and 18" constellation Left hand. 

7 

8 


. 19%, 20%, 218, 22"9 93" and 24" constellation - Both legs. 
. 25", 26" and 27" constellation - Right hand. 


108 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Mars 

1, and 2™ constellation - Face. 

3. 4h, 5 6, 7"" and 8" constellation - Both legs. 
9", 10" and 11" constellation the womb 

12", 13", 14" and 15" constellation - Left hand. 
16" and 17" constellation - Head. 

22"4 23", 24" and 25" constellation - Right hand. 
26" and 27" constellation 


Mercury, Jupiter, Venus 


NO aF ON = 


1. 15 2"¢ and 3%, constellation - Head. 

2. 4, 5" and 6*constellation - Face. 

3. 7 git of 40, 41 and 12" constellation - the womb 
4. 18" and 19" constellation - Private part. 

5. 20" to 27"- Both legs. 

Saturn, Rahu, Ketu 

. 1*'constellation - Face. 

2" 37 4" and 5" constellation - Right hand. 

6", 7" and 8" constellation - Right lag. 

9", 10" and 11"constellation - Left leg. 

12", 13", 14" and 15" constellation - Left hand. 
16", 17", 18", 19" and 20" constellation - the womb 


218 224 and 23" constellation - Head 


PNA R YON a 


. 26" and 27 constellation - Back. 

calculation of all the planets mentioned above should be made by Moon sign. 
An analysis of some significant results of the planets. 

Sun 


1. The Sun with 5, 6 or 8 Rekhas tells of marriage, travel, auspicious exercises and en- 
hancement in the sphere of wealth, if it transits over the Moon sign. 


2. The Sun having 2, 3 or 4 Rekhas causes delay, hurdles or disturbance in whatever the 
native undertakes, if it transits over the Moon sign. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 109 


3. Ifthe Sun having no line transits over the Moon sign, it causes hurdles and some deadly 
afflictions to the native. 


Moon 


1. While in own sign, the Moon having 6, 7, or 8 Rekhas tells of happy conjugal life of the 
native. 


He attains good education and succeeds in interviews he faces. 


2. Ifthe Moon having 1, 2,3 or 4 Rekhas transits in its own sign, it causes delay in accom- 
plishing What all the native udertakes.In also causes hurdles in his way. 


3. Moon with more Rekhas tells of a happy conjugal life. 
Mars 


1. The native may buy a plot or plots of land, if Mars having 5 or more Rekhas transits in 
Moon sign i.e. the Birth sign. He may reap a good harvest and may earn profit in property 
dealing. 


2. Mars having no line (Shunya line) or 1 or 2 Rekhas causes deterioration in blood related 
disease, if it transits in Birth sign i.e. Moon sign. 


Mercury 


1. The native gets higher education and succeeds in interviews he faces, if Mercury tran- 
sits in its Birth sign i.e. the Moon sign. If also tells off enhancement in the sphere of his 
trade or business and some significant gain as well. 


2. Mercury having no line (Shunyaline) causes sudden loss in business while in transit in 
Sun sign, Moon sign or in its own sign. 


Jupiter 


1. The native will have mental contentment, knowledge of Vedas and bliss of children, if 
Jupiter having 6, 7 or 8 Rekhas transits in Moon sign or in its own sign. He will be 
performing spiritual exercises. 


2. The native will have gain of gold, silver, gems, jewels etc. and his finacial position will 
improve if Jupiter has 4 or 5 Rekhas. 


3. Aspersion is caused, if Jupiter has no line (Shunyaline) 


Venus 


1. Venus having Rekhas in between 4 to 8 tells of successful love affairs, mental peace, 
enhancement in the sphere of happiness and happy conjugal life, if it ttansits in Moon 
sign or in the sign of Venus. 


2. Venus causes infamy if it transits having no line (Shunyaline) or 1 or 2 Rekhas. 


110 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


Saturn 


1. Saturn with 6, 7 or 8 Rekhas gives wealth, and profit in the trade of iron and clultivation, if 
it transits in its Birth sign i.e. in Moon sign. 
2. Saturn causes financial loss, if it has no line (Shunyaline) or 1 or 2 Rekhas. 
Rahu Ashtaka Varga 
The method, by which the situation of the Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and 
Lagna is analyzed, is called Ashtaka Varga. In it, Rahu is not considered. Rahu has also not 


been considered in Ashtaka Varga mentioned elaborately in the scriptures of Astrology, 
since it is basically a shadowy planet. 


However, Rahu has been mentioned in Shubha Hora Prakash. In Ashtaka Varga, consider- 
ation of Rahu is neither justifiable nor does it suit to the rules of Prodictive Astrology.. Analy- 
sis of Rahu Ashtaka Varga is mentioned here under only for those versed in Astrology. 
Here, it has to be pointed out that no Ashtaka Varga or chart of Rahu is cast. The Rekha 
Sthanas of Rahu can be considered to find out the effects of Rahu as mentioned below. 


Rekha Sthanas of Rahu 


From the Sun - 1,2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10 
From Moon - 1,3,5,7,8, 9,10 
From Mars - 2535512 

From Mercury - 2,4,7,8,12 
From Jupiter — 1,3,4,6,8 

From Venus - 6,7,11,12 

From Saturn - 3,5,7,10,11,12 
From Lagna - 3,4,5,9,12 

Sum total - 44 


Rekha Sthanas of Rahu Ashtaka Varga (43) 


6 3 
7 4 
11 5 
12 9 

12 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 111 


Trikona Shodhan or Ekadhipatya Shodhan of Rahu is not possible. In example horoscope, 
Rekhas will be as follows in Rahu Ashtaka Varga. 


Rahu Ashtaka Varga. 


nd 
0 0 I 0 0 | | | 


Sat. 


Jupiter 


Example Chart of Rahu Ashtaka Varga 
Tranasit of Rahu (in Moon sign) 


1. During the transit of Rahu, the native suffers from different diseases. He has to face 
trouble and distress. 


2. Misuse or loss of money and trouble in the family are possible. 


112 Ashtak Varg Siddhant 


NO oO fF & 


Rahu in this condition tells of good health, mental peace and happiness of the native. 
Accident, diseases and various types agonies are possible. 

The native will remain worried about his children and will suffer financial loss. 
Mental peace and win over enemies are possible. 


Physical loss is possible. Either of the couple has to face affliction. Hurdles in earn- 
ings are also caused. 


Accident by a vehicle is possible. While in journey, the native may have to face trouble 
or he may suffer some injuries. 


Mental depression worsens and the native goes astray from the path of his religion. 
Circle of enemies of the native widens. He has to face disputes without any reason. 
Sphere of mental and material happiness enhances further. 


Undue expenses and heavy expenditure on travel are forecast. 


Prediction should be made after analyzing the effects of Rahu the way mentioned above. 


Ashtak Varg Siddhant 113 


