Timing of Events 
Through 
Dasha & Transit 


By 
S.K. Sawhney 
Jyotish Acharya 


All India Federation of Astrologers’ Societies 


— 


eo On Wa FF Oo DL 


— 
oO 


Contents 


Basic Principles. ...........0...0000 0c cc cece cence cette cece tee e ee eeeeeeeteaeeseeeeeneneeeees 1 

Howto Interpret a Horoscope... ccccccccccseceeccnsseeceecsteseeeeeessseeesensaeed 4 

Dasha Analysis. 

Importance of Transit 

Importance of Divisional Charts. .....0000.0.00.....0cccccccccccceeccceeeeeeccceeceeseeeeeennaas 13 

Timing of Achievements in [Educational Accomplishmenis_—21 

Timing for rise in ProfeSsion............000... cece eee etter ee tenne ee tennnrerere 24 

How to Identify Timing of Marriage............2... 0.0... cceee cece eee eeeenenee nent es 28 

Timing of Birth of Children..............0.0000 0 ees 32 
. Timing of Foreign Travels............ccccececeeee reese ttteneettteeeeeeeeeeee teenies 37 
. Timing of Accruing Land/Property/Vehicle/Domestic Valuables__43 


. Timing of Birth of Younger Brothers and  Sisters__47 
. Howto Identify Sources of Income’ through  Astrology__50 


. Howto make Snapshot Predictions through Birth Chart only..................... 54 


About the Author 


Sh. S.K. Sawhney is an eminent astrologer having an experience of more than a decade 
in the field of astrology. He was awarded degree of Jyotish Alankaar and Jyotish 
Acharya by the Institute of Astrology, Bhartiya Bhawan, New Delhi, India ( aworld 
known organization of India in the field of Astrology) being run under the Chairmanship 
of Shri K.N. Rao, a world known Astrologer. Shri S.K. Sawhney has been practicing 
astrology for over a decade. He has written a number of articles on astrology which 
have been published in the prestigious astrological magazines, such as Future 
Samachaar, Babajee and Nakshatarwanee. His articles are also coming on famous 
websites i.e. Indianastrology.com of Future Point Pvt. Ltd. New Delhi, India and 
Webastro.com. He has also written a book titled Timing of Events through Dasha and 
Transit being published by Futurepoint Pvt. Ltd. Another Book on KP. System and 
Horary Astrology are under process of publication. He has participated in number of 
seminars on astrology which includes seminar on vedic astrology held in Maurtitus in 
the year 2001, in which he was awarded gold medal for his lecture The heart problem: 
an astrological evaluation’. Recently he participated in the conference on vedic sciences 
held in the Netherlands in which he was awarded gold medal for his article ‘Saturn 
Moon Combination and Cancer’. He is also teaching astrology in Hauzkhas Chapter 
of All India Federation of Astrologers' Societies in the capacity of Honorary Faculty 
Member. 


He is specialist in solving the problems relating to marriage, marital relations, progeny, 
birth of children, health, medical astrology, profession and education. He is also expert 
in answering the various questions on the basis of Horary astrology in case the querist 
does not have birth details i.e. D.O.B., P.O.B. and T.O.B. He not only gives astrological 
replies to your queries but also suggests various remedies to solve the problems by 
way of advice on gems therapy, Yantras, Mantras and Charity. 


1. Basic Principles 


For a quick reference, some of the Basic Principles of Astrology are being described 
below so that a new enetrant in the field of Astrology can learn how the Vimshottri 

Dasha can be used for determining the major events in the life of a native such as 

Education, Profession, Marriage, Children, Acquisition of Land and Property, Vehicles 
and Foreign Travels. 


The Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu are the 9 planets. 
Out of these planets, Rahu and Ketu are not real planets, They are called shadow 
planets or chhaayaa Grahas. The path of the planets is called Zodiac. 


Now we will outlay the details of various significations of these planets : 
L Sun is the significator of father, soul, medicine, politics, help from Governments, 


2. 


3. 


Government status, fame, honour, valour, health, right eye etc. 


The Moon is the significator of mother, feelings, females and benefit from them, 
glow of the face, beauty, lefteye, liquids, pearls, milk, north-west direction. 


The Mars is the significator of younger siblings, courage, valour, bodily strength, 
quarrel, land and property, wounds due to weapon, police department, engineering, 
soldiers, accidents, injuries, armed forces, enemies, and south direction. 


. The Mercury is the significator of intellect, heavy reading habit, speech, arguments, 


astrology, writing, publishing, mathematics, banking, auditors, maternal uncles, 
nervous system, skin and north direction. 


. The Jupiter is the significator of wealth, high standards of life, birth of children, 


elder brother, knowledge, good qualities, advising, religion and connected things, 
honours, status, knowledge of Vedas, fatness of the body. lecturers, principals, 
legal experts, husband in the horoscope of females, political diplomacy, liver and 
north-east direction. 


. The Venus is the siginificator of wife, spouse, sexual matters, vehicles, arts, singing, 


jewelry, precious stones, luxury or luxurious articles, beauty, places of entertainment, 
chemicals. The profession pertaining to Venus are film industry, dance, drama, 
textiles, perfumes, business connected with females, music, hotel. It also signify 
the private parts, kidney, south-east direction. 


. Satum is the significator of longevity, death, fate, fear, poverty, labourer, humiliation. 


service, servants, chronic diseases. cruel deeds. In politics, Satu indicates leader 
it also indicates iron and steel, black coloured items, it indicates direction of west. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 1 


8. The Rahu is the significator of paternal grand father, harsh speech, gambling, occults, 
foreigners, confusion, widow, pilgrimage, acute pain and south west direction. 


9. The Ketu is the significator maternal grandfather, mathematical ability, sudden 
mishaps. foreign language, genius, leather, troubles caused by enemies, white 
spots over skin, Leucoderma and south-east direction. 


The Horoscope is divided in 12 houses and each house has its own signification. To 
understand how to analyse a horoscope, we should be familiar with the significations 
of each house of the horoscope in addition to the significations of the 9 planets. Now 
we will describe the signifactions of each house of the horoscope briefly. 


Lagna or the 1 st House : The first house is the most important house of the horoscope. 
Itis also called Lagna. The first house mainly indicates the body of the native, hence it 
is called Sareera Bhava. It indicates health, nature, longevity, general happiness, it 
indicates head and hairs of the native. The Sun is the significator planet of the First 
House. 


2nd House : it is mainly called Kutumba or the Family House. It is the significator of 
wealth, status, speech, food, right eye, marak house, face, tongue etc. The significator 
planet of this house is Jupiter for wealth and Mercury for speech. 


3rd House : This is called Sahodara Bhava. The third house is the significator of 
younger brothers or sisters, efforts, short journeys, writtings, communication skill, 
longevity, courage, ear, servants, friends, neighbors, reason of death, shoulders and 
anus. The Mars is the significator planet for third house for co-borns and valours and 
Satum for the servants. 


4th House : This is specially called Matri Bhava(Mother). 4th House indicates 
education, knowledge, vehicle, house, throne, comforts, mother, residence, domestic 
happiness, chest etc. The Moon is the significator for mother, Venus is the significator 
for vehicles and Mars for land and property in respect of 4th house. 


5th House : It mainly indicates progeny or children, intellect, aptitude, romance and 
emotions, dignity, break in profession, Punya of previous Janma, Mantra, ministerial 
consultations, higher education, stomach etc. The Jupiter is the significatior of Sth 
house for children, and Mercury for the education. 


6th House : This house pertains to enemy, diseases and borrowing and loans. 
Disputes, legal matters, loss, accidents, fighting sprit, waist etc. The Mars is the 
significator of this house for accidents, the Satu for sickness and Mercury for maternal 
relations. 


7th House: This is known as Kalatra Bhava and mainly related to wife and husband. 
Itsignifies marriage, spouse, life partner, business partner, public image, Marak house, 
lower abdomen, private parts etc. Venus is the significator of this house for marriage 
and wife and Jupiter is the significator for husband. 


2 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


8th House: This is known as Ayush Bhazv. It signifies the longevity, chronic and incurable 
diseases, sorrow, misery, mode of death, ancestral property and organ of excretion. 
Saturn is the significator of this house for longevity. 


9th House : This is known as fortune house or Dharma Bhava. It mainly incicate 
father, progeny, fortune, guru, foreign travels, thighs etc. The Sun is the significator of 
this house for father and Jupiter is the significator of religion. 


10th House : It is know as Karma Bhava and indicates profession, livelihood, business, 
employment government, knees, fame etc. The Sun is the significator planet of this 
house. 


11th House : It is know n as Labh Sthan. This house indicates elder brother, sister, 
gain, income, fulfillment of desires, accidents, legs and left ear etc. The Jupiter is the 
significator planet for this house. 


12th HouSe : This house is known as Vyay Sthan and it mainly signifies expenditure, 
losses foreign countries, jail, hospitals, Moksha, bed pleasures, separation, feet and 
left eye. The Saturn is the significator of this house for separation, Ketu for Moksha 
and Venus for bed pleasures. 


Here, an analysis of significance of different planets and houses is given below: 


For mother, the Moon and 4th house from Moon, for father Sun and 9th house from 
Sun, for children Jupiter and 5th house from Jupiter, for wife Venus and 7th house from 
Venus and younger for siblings. Mars and 3rd house from Mars. 


For conveyances, Venus and 4th house from Venus, for land and property, Mars and 
Ath house from Mars and for education mercury and 5th house from Mercury . 


Thus, we have learnt about significanced of planets, all the houses of horoscope, the 
various significators for the various houses. For accurate analysis of a horoscope, we 
should know as to how the strength of various planets are to be evaluated. First of all 
we should see the strength of a planet in the Birth Chart and then evaluate its strength 
in the concerned divisional chart. If planet is strong, it will give good results related to 
its signification and signification of the House Lord. If the planet is weak, it will not be 
able to deliver good results related to its signification and the signification of the house 
of which itis the lord. 


A planet is said to be strong if it is in its sign of exallation, mooltrikonsign, own sign, in 
the sign of friends, owner of a benefic house, conjoined or aspected by the natural 
benefic planets or if it is Vargottam. A planet is said to be weak if it is posted in the 
sign of enemy planet, in its sign of conjoined debilitation, combust, lordship of 6th, 8th 
house or 12th house, placed in 6th, 8th or 12th house, or aspected conjucted by malefic 
planets, in Rashi Sandhi. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 3 


2. Howto Interpret 
a Horoscope 


The interpretation of the Horoscope involves manifold analysis of different houses of 
the birth chart. This process consists of many steps. To simplify, it can be divided in 
the following steps. 


1. General assessment of the birth chart by evaluating the strength of Lagna, Sun and 
Moon. 


. Evaluation of Kendras and Trikonas. 
. Check the position of the dispositor of different House Lords. 
. Check the inter-relations among houses and their lord planets. 


. Finally, check the dasha pattern of the birth chart in operation. This will help in 
identifying the timing of events. 


Personality of the native depends upon the Lagna Lord and influences of the other 

planet on Lagna and Lagna lord of the birth chart. The Moon represents the mind of 

the native. Influence on the Moon of the other planets with conjunction or aspect affect 
the temperament of the native according to the signification of the planet conjoined 

with or aspecting the Moon. If Lagna lord is afflicted or ill placed in the horoscope, it 

puts its adverse affect on the health of the native. Affliction of the Moon and its ill 

placement the mental disposition of the native disturbed. The Sun represents the soul 
affliction its ill placement results in overall decline in achieving status in life. 


ah WP 


Importance of Kendras and Trikonas 


Assessment of Kendras and Trikonas in a horoscope is very important. If the Kendras 
and Trikonas are occupied by benefic planets, it gives special strength to the horoscope. 
Trikonas are also very important, the 5th and 9th houses are known as Trikonas or 
trines since 5th house is the house of accumulated goods or bad of Karmas of previous 
birth and 9th house is the house of religious deeds. The influence of Trikonas on house 
lord is protective shield for the native; their influence on any house or house lord through 
conjunction or aspect protects the signification of the concerned house or signification 
of the house lord planets. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Assessment of an Individual Horoscope 


For interpretation of an individual horoscope, we should concentrate on assessment 
of strength and weakness of different houses of the same. The strength or weakness 
of any. house of the horoscope will indicate the results associated with that particular 
house. We, while analysing the results of any particular house, should carefully check 
the influences of another planets on the house and house lord. 


An house or house lord is influenced by other planets by way of: 


1. Placement: A planet posted in another house will have relations with that house 
due to placement and will influence the house in which it is posted. 


2. Aspect: A planet aspecting a house or House Lord will have relations with the 
house of which it is the lord and the house it is aspecting. 


3. Conjunction: When lords of two houses are placed with each other, a relation is 
established between them in the house of horoscope in which they are posted and 
they give results according to their lordship and their natural significations. 


To judge the promise and nature of results, we should check the following factors. 


1. The concemed house, for example, we want to judge the promise of children in a 
horoscope, we should check the 5th house of the horoscope first, i.e. influence of 
different planets on 5th house by conjunction, aspect or exchange among planets. 


2. Secondly, we should check the position of lord of the concerned house. Incase of 
children, the position of the lord of 5th house is to be checked, such as its placement, 
and influence of other planets on 5th lord due to conjunction, aspect and exchange. 


3. Thirdly, we should check the position of the significator of the concerned event 
whereas for children, we should check the position of Jupiter which is the significator 
of the children. We should check the influence of other planets on Jupiter. 


4, We should also check the concerned house from the significator, For children the 
5th house from Jupiter may also be checked and influences of other planets on this 
house is also to be assessed. 


If the house, house lord, the significator and concerned house from the significator are 
under the influence of benefic planets, the native will have good results pertaining to 
the house in question and if the house, house lord, the significator and if the concerned 
house from the significator is influenced by malefic planets, natural or functional, the 
native will not be able to obtain good results of the concerned house, rather he will be 
receiving bad results concerning to that house signification. We may also consider 
the dispositor of the house lord. It also helps in assessing the results of the concemed 
house. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit ) 


The position of the house lord in the concerned divisional chart is of equal importance. 
We should also assess the strength of the planet in the concerned house. For example, 
if we are evaluating the promise of children, we should check the strength of 5th lord in 
the Saptamsh Chart, and position of Lagna lord of Saptamsh. 


A thorough study of houses, house lords, the significtors, the concerned houses from 
the significators, the position of lord of the concerned house in divisional chart and 
Lagna lords of concerned divisional chart in the divisional chart will indicate whether 
the results pertaining to the house, will be negative or positive and extent to which it 
will be positive or negative. 


Timing of Events : The Horoscope and concerned divisional charts only indicate the 
promise in the horoscope, negative or positive, according to the position of house, 
house lord, significator, concerned house from the significator. But the time of 
fructification of event is indicated by the Dasha/Anterdasha of different planets. The 
native gets in his life results according to the dasha operative at that time. If a good 
dasha is in operation, the native will get good results according to the significations of 
the concerned dasha nath and its lordship in the horoscope. For determining the timing 
of events for various events such as education, profession, marriage, children, acquiring 
of vehicle, land and property, foreign travels, we will discuss each subject in detail in 
different chapters. We will not only give the principles to identify the timing of events 
but will make our sincere efforts to make the principles clear with the help of illustrations 
/examples. 


6 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


3. Dasha Analysis 


Dasha Of The Planet Indicates The Timing Of Events 


A Dasha Lord gives results according to its lordship and results of planets influencing 
dasha lord by conjunction, aspect and placement. The dashanath will give results of 
the house occupied by it and its lordship. 


Aspect: The dashanath will also give the results of the planet aspecting it according 
to the natural signification of the planet and its signification of lordship of the particular 
house. 


Conjunction: If Dashanath is conjoined with a planet, it will also give result of natural 
signification of the conjoined planet and its signification due to lordship of a particular 
house in the horoscope. 


The planets give results according to the lordship in a horoscope. We will be describing 
the general results given by the lords of the 12 houses of the horoscope. 


1. Inthe dasha of Lagnesh Bodily comforts, wealth, and general happiness is given 
by the planet even if it is a natural malefic planet. It is the dasha of rise. 


2. Inthe dasha of Dhanesh, the second lord, the dashanath gives wealth, status butit 
also gives trouble in health since it is in a Marak house. In my experience, dashanath 
of 2nd lord is not good for wife/life partner since it is in 8th house from the 7th 
house. 


3. In dasha of 3rd lord, birth younger brother/sister takes place, it tells short journey, 
and causes problem in health as 3rd house is 8th from 8th house. 


4. The dasha of the 4th lord, Sukhesh gives vehicle, house, property, general 
happiness, ministerial post in case of politicians etc. It gives trouble to father since 
Ath house is 8th from 9th house the house of father. 


5. The dasha of 5th lord is very beneficial since 5th house is the Trikona sthan. It 
generally gives education, gain of wealth and dignity. It also blesses with the children 
but itis not good for mother since it is second house from the house of mother, the 
Ath house. 


6. Inthe dasha of 6th house it causes diseases, fear from enemy, accidents, litigation 
and trouble to children. | have seen this dasha is good for profession since 6th 
house is 9th from Karma Bhava. 


7. Inthe dasha of 7th lord body trouble, marriage etc. are possible. It also gives high 
position and repute in the public since it is the alternative house of profession 
being 10th house from the 10th house. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 7 


8. The dasha of 8th house generally gives inauspicious results, it gives body trouble, 
fear of death. The death of wife, it gives disgrace and brings major changes in the 
life pattern of the native. 


9. The dasha of 9th lord is quite beneficial for the native. During the dasha of 9th lord 
native rises due to luck, respect, religious journey, foreign travel gain from the 
government. Rise through education is also expected. 


10. Inthe dasha of 10th lord, help from government, gain of wealth, increase in fame, 
rise in profession etc. are possible. But this dasha is not good for the mother since 
11 th house is 7th from the house of mother. 


11.In the dasha of 11th lord Labhesh, gain in income is possible due to possible the 
strength of the house. Generally, this dasha is good for wealth/income etc. but it 
also causes disease since 11th house is 6th from the 6th house. 


12. Inthe dasha of the 12thlord, loss of wealth, bodily trouble etc. are caused. It also 
gives bed pleasures and foreign travels. 


The dashanath/anterdashanath gives results according to its strength in the birth chart, 
navamsh and concerned divisional charts. 


This dashanath/anterdashanath gives good results in the following conditions. 
. If the planet is the lord of an auspicious house i.e. Kendra or Trikona. 

It is posted in kendras or trikona. 

Itis in a sign of exaltation own sign, Mooltrikona sign or in friendly sign. 

It is conjoined with or aspected by the benefic planets. 

itis Vargottama. 

[tis having directional strength. 


The dashanath/Anterdashanath gives unsuspicious or bad results in the following 
conditions : 

1. The planet is the lord of 6th, 8th or 12th house. 

2. Itis posted in 6th. 8th, or 12thhouse. 

3. Itis ina debilitated sign, inimical sign, combust or in Rashi Gandant. 

4. Ifitis conjoined with or aspected by malefic planets. 

5. It is weak in navansh or in the concerned divisional chart. 

Till now we have learned the signification of the planets, signification of houses, how to 
interpret the horoscope, how to do interpretation of dasha. Now itis time to learn in 
details how to determine the timing of events for educational achievements, rise in 
profession, timing of marriage, birth of children, timing of getting vehicles/and property 
and timing for foreign travels. We will discuss these matters in details in the coming 
chapters separately since now we have got sufficient knowledge of the basic principles 
of astrology. 


OPakRoONa 


8 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


4. Importance of 
Transit of Planets 


Planets in the zodiac always keep moving in the zodiac according to their speed and 
enter from one sign to another. In the sign in which planets remain at the time of Birth is 
known as their natal position, which is the base of Birth chart. When they move from 
one sign to another other than the Birth time, it is known as TRANSIT of planets. Transit 
of planets is very important to know good or bad results to the native for the present 
time. 


The results of Transit should be considered through the natal position of Moon in the 
Birth chart. Transit of Moon will indicate the results for the day, transit of the Sun indicates 
results for the month, transit of Jupiter indicates results for the year and transit of Saturn 
indicates how will be 2 years and 6 months for the naive. The transit of planets should 
be studied in corelation of the dasha of the planets in operation. 


Principle of Transit and Dasha 


1. Ifthe dasha of the planet is indicating good results and transit of the planets is also 
indicating good results, the native will obtain very good results pertaining to the 
house, house lord of dashanath and house in which planet is transiting. 


2. If dasha is indicating bad results and transit of planet is also indicating bad results 
or dasha is indicating bad results and transit is indicating good results, the native 
will have mixed results good and bad both. 


3. If dasha is indicating bad results and transit of planet is also indicating bad results, 
the period will be very bad and native will get inauspicious results pertaining to 
house, house lord of the dashanath and of the house in which the planet is transiting. 


Now we will discuss the results of transit of different planets in different houses from 

the natal Moon. It is not possible to describe results of each planets in detail in this 

chapter, however | am describing below the brief results of transit of all the nine planets 
in different places/nouses of the horoscope through the position of natal Moon in the 

tabular form. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 9 


Planet 


SUN 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


10 


Transiting House 
From Natal moon 


4,2,5,8,9and 12 


3,6,10,11 


2,4.,5 and 9 &12th 


8th 
1,3,6,7,10and 11th 
1,2,4,5,8,9,10,12th 
7th 


3,6 and 11 
1,3,4,5,7,9 and 12th 


2nd. 

6,8,10 and 11th 
1,4th and 10th 
3rd & 6th 


2,5,7,9 and 11, 6th 


Results in Brief. 


Inthese houses the Sun gives bad results, no 
efforts of the native will succeed, may suffer 
from eye trouble. 


Here Sun gives maximum malefic results. The 
native will have excess expenditure, many 
diseases, defeat in lawsuits. 


Here Sun gives very auspicious results, such as 
good health, income, gain, promotion, newjob. 


Moon gives bad results such as sorrows, 
miseries, loss of reputation, unwanted 
expenditure, obstruction in efforts. 


Here Moon gives maximum malefic results 
such as menial agony, trouble to mother. 


Here Moon bestows very good results such 
as increase in facilities, income etc. 


Here Mars gives bad results, such as sorrows, 
miseries and diseases etc. 


Here Mars gives maximum malefic results, 
such as quarrel, litigation, loss, diseases. 


Good results. Happiness, comforts, gain etc. 


Difficulties, heavy expenditure, diseases of 
skin, nerves etc. 


Maximum bad results, obstruction in all 
spheres, loss of wealth. 


Very good results, such as good health, overall 
happiness, education, income etc. 


Bad results, fear, worries, loss of status, bad 
health, heavy expenditure etc. 

Maximum bad results such as loss of respect, 
humilitation, enmity etc. 


Good results, such as good health, comforts, 
progress in business, travels, gain of jewelry 
etc. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Venus 7th and 10th 


6th 


1,2,3,4,5,9,11,12th 


Satum 1,2,4,5,7,8,10&12th 
3,6,9 and 11th 

Rahu/Ketu 1,2,4,5,7,8,10 and 12th 
9th 


3,6, and 11th 


Bad results such as sorrows, heavy 
expenditure, loss of comforts, lack of sex, bad 
health of wife. 


Maximum malefic results, sexual diseases. 
Loans, humiliation from women etc. 


Easy life, good health, sex pleasures, 
increase in income, benefits from female, gain 


.in business etc. 


Malefic results in different ways, excess 
expenditure, loans etc. 


Good results such as gains, comforts, gain of 
money, promotion, success in efforts. 
Malefic Results such as miseries, sorrow, 
agony, downfall, over expenditure etc. 
Maximum malefic results, misfortunes, 
diseases etc. 


Good results such as good health, success 
in efforts, gains, comforts, progress in 
profession, all round prosperity etc. 


These are the results given in brief. These good or bad results will change if there is 
Vedha due to placement of some another planet at certain places. 


Vedha places of various planets are described below : 


Sun 361011 
Vecha places 91245 


Sun placement 91245 
Vedha places 361011 
Moonplacement 71611 103 
Vecha houses 2512849 
Moon placement 25849 
Vedha houses 71611103. 
Mars placement 3116 
Vedha houses 1259 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


if Moon is placed in these houses, there is 
no Vedha. 


If Mercury is placed, then no Vedhas. 


11 


Mars placement 
Vedha houses 


1259 
3116 


Mercury placement 2, 11957 11 


Vedha houses 128104312 
Jupiter placement 246810 

Vedha houses 5391 8 

Jupiter placement 1281043 

Vedha houses 211 957 

Venus placement 123458911 12 
Vedha house 871 1095 11 63 
Venus placement 871 109511 63 
Vedha houses 123458911 12 
Saturn placement. 3611 

Vedhas houses 1295 

Saturn placement 1295 

Vedhas 3611 

Rahu/Ketu Placement 3 6 11 

Vedha houses 1295 


If Moon is placed in these houses, there are 
no Vechas. 


IfSun placed in these houses, then there 
are no Vedhas 


If Sun is placed in these houses then there 
are no Vedhas 


} have described the Vecha house for the different planets. If transiting planet is in 
benefic house but there is Vedha due to placement of another planet, it will cancel the 
benefic results. On the other hand, if the transiting planet in malefic places but there is 
Vedha due to placement of another planet, the malefic results will be cancelled. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


5. Importance of 
Divisional Charts 


The path of the planets is called zodiac. It is divided in 12 parts and each part is 
known as one sign. Every sign is equal to 30 degrees. Divisional chart is made by 
dividing the sign into parts, or divisions, therefore it is called Divisional Chart. For 
example, if we are making Navansh chart, a sign is divided in 9 parts each part 
consisting of 3 degree-20. The Divisional Charts are prepared by taking into 
consideration the natal degree of Lagna and different planets of the natal chart. 


For detailed studies, the Divisional Charts are required to be studied. The Divisional 
Charts are subsidiary charts to natal chart and should not be read independently for 
analysis of the events. It should be read in co-relation with Birth Chart. For example, if 
we want to study the matter related to progeny, we should read Saptansh Chart D- 7 in 
co-relation of Birth chart D-I. Divisional chart should also be studied to evaluate the 
strength of natal planet. 


The Divisional chart should be study in the same manner as Rashi Chart. While studying 
the Divisional Chart importance should be given to the Lagna and Lagnalord of 
Divisional chart and concerned house and its lord of the Divisional Chart. For example, 
if we are studying matter relating to progeny, we should study : 


1. Position of 5t lord in Saptansh Chart. 

2. Position of Lagnalord of Saptansh and Lagna of Saptansh. 

3. 5th house of Saptansh and position of Sth lord of Saptansh. 

4. Position of Jupiter, the sinificator of progeny, inthe Saptahsh Chart. 


The specular prediction can be gjven if same position is indicated by Birth Chart and 
concerned Divisional Chart. For example, the 5in lord.of D4 is in 6,8 or 42th house and 
Lagnalord of Saptansh or 5th lord of Saptansh is also placed in 6,8 or 12th house, we 
can easily predict that the possibility of children will be very lean. In other case, if 5t 
lord of D-I and 5t lord of Saptansh both are placed in auspicious houses and well 
aspected, possibility of children will be very high. 


The Divisional Charts are study for analysing the particular event in co-relation with 
Birth Chart. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 13 


| am mentioning below some Divisional charts commonly used for specific events. 
Hora D-2 Wealth. 
Dreshkana D-3 : Younger brother/sister, courage and initiative. 
Chaturmasa D-4 Land and property, vehicles, comforts. 
Panchmasa D-5 Higher education 
Shashthamsa D-6 Debt, diseases. 


Saptamsa D-7 Progeny related matters. 


Asthamsa D-8 Longevity. 
Navmasa D-9 To check general strength of planets, marriage. 
Dashmasa D-10 Profession 


Ekadamasa D-11 Income, gains, elder brother & sister 
Dwadamasa D-12 Parents. 
Chaturvimasa D-24 Knowledge, education. 


How cast these divisional charts are shown in the tables annexed with this chapter. 


14 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Table for Hora Planets in Signs 


6 a Aas a a 
of plan 


ie ela lotr eal ae 
ae sn [el in [ren fre |e an fn 


Table for Decante Planets: in Signs 


Z a a a 
of plan 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 15 


4°17" 
8°34 
12°51" 
17°8 
21°25! 
25°42" 
30° 


16 


Aries | Taur. 


Table for Panchamsa Planets in Signs 


Gemi 


Canc} Leo 


DS 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Table for Asthamsa Planets in Signs 


D-8 
Long. | Aries} Taur.| Gemi| Canc} Leo | Virgo} Libra 
Upto 
3°45' 9 5 1 9 5 1 


7°30" 10 6 2 10 6 2 


11°15! 
18°45' 


22°30' 


26°15' 


Table for Navamsa Planets in Signs 


D-9 
Gl ft Gl Ka ins nd Gc nb id 
1 10 .| 7 4 1 7 4 1 7 4 


23°20' 


26°40' 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 17 


Table for Dasamsa Planets in Signs 
D-10 


Upto. 


o ao nN DW OH fF WwW DN 


oO a Nn DO oa fF WwW NY 
= 
fo) 


4 
= 


Table for Ekadamasa Planets in Signs 
D-11 


= 
fo) 


8°10 

40°54" 
13°38) 
16°21' 
19°5 
21°49 
24°32 
27°16 
30° 


9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 


= 


18 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Table for Dwadasamsa Planets in Signs 
D-12 


Fs Rad a Ka al Ka Ge Gn Ki 
Upto 
1 243 |4 {58 /6 {7 Is 9 lt | n 12 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit : 19 


Table for Chaturvimsamsa Planets in Signs 


D-24 
Long. | Aries | Taur. Canc} Leo es ee 
Upto 
4°15! 5 4 5 4 5 4 5 4 
2°30' | 6 5 


3°45" 
5°0' 
6°15' 
7°30 
8°45' 
10° 
11°15! 
12°30' 
13°45' 


15 
16°15" 
17°30 
18°45 
20° 
21°15) 
22°30! 
23°45 
25° 
26°15) 
27°30 


oO @O@ NN OO ao FF HO ND 


oO Oo nN DOD ao FF WO ND 


= 
fo) 


= 
=a 
= 
° 


— 
=a 


=— 
Le) 


= 


28°45' 


@lo w 


20 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


6. Timing of Achievements 
in Educational Accomplishments 


Inmodem age, the educational! pursuits have been diversified. In this Chapter, we will 
throw light on astrological analysis of the educational pursuits of the native. The second 
and fourth houses signifies the school education/general education and 5th house 
signify the higher education/professional education. Now a days, there is a great 
demand of the persons who have higher education/professional education. If 2nd house, 
its lord and 4th house and 4th lord are strong and well placed in the horoscope, the 
native may have good education. Ifthese house or house lord are ill placed, weak and 
afflicted, the native may not be able to attain good education. For higher education/ 
professional education we have to evaluate 5th house, 5th lord and Mercury, the 
significator of higher education and intellect. The horoscope will indicate the level of 
education the native can achieve. However, timing of achieving higher education/ 
professional education can be determined with the help of Dasha and Transit of Planets. 


For determining the timing, following parameters should be assessed. In dasha of 
following planets, the native may achieve success in the higher education/professional 
education. 


Dasha Parameters 

1. The dasha of 5th Lord. 

. The Dasha of dispositor of 5th lord. 

. The Dasha of Lagna lord of Chaturvimshamsha. 

. Dasha of Mercury, the significator of education and lord of 5th house from Mercury. 


. Dasha of planet placed in 5th house, aspecting 5th house, conjoined with 5th lord 
or aspecting 5th lord. 


6. Dasha of 5th lord from Mercury/Moon, planet posited in 5th house from Moon/ 
Mercury. 


ao ff WwW DY 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 21 


Transit Parameters. 


During dasha of planets mentioned above, the Saturn and Jupiter will make contact in 
two conditions out of the four mentioned below through conjunction or aspect. 


1.5th house, 5th lord, 9th house, 9th lord from Lagna or Moon. 


If dasha parameters and transit meters set above are fulfilled, the native will be 
successful in achieving success in higher education/professional education during 
the dasha of planets 

mentioned under dasha  D-1 CHATURVIMSHAMHA 


parameters. 


Mars} 


D.O.B. - 10:12:1984 


T.OB -12:55 
P.OB. - DELHI EA 


This is the Horoscope “oa 

of a young girl who after 

passing her Sr. 

Secondary Examination passed three entrance examinations for higher education 
during the period 5-07-2002 to 2-08-2002. She qualified for the B.B.S. of Delhi 
University, BJMC of I.P. University, Degree in Foreign Language of Delhi University. 


During the period 5-07-2002 to 2-08-2002, she was running under dasha of Jupiter, 
Anterdasha of Mars and Pratyanter dasha of Moon. Now we will see as to how the 
parameters set under dasha are applicable in this case. 


The Dashanath Jupiter is aspecting Moon, the 5th lord. Anterdashanath Mars is 
aspecting 5th house, the Pratyanter Dashanath Moon is itself 5th lord. All M.D. Lord, 
AD Lord and PD Lord are among the planets mentioned under Dasha parameters. In 
transit during above-mentioned period, Satum was transiting in Gemini, it was conjoined 
with 5th lord and Jupiter was transiting in Cancer i.e. 5th house of the birth chart. The 
parameters set under transit are fully applicable in this case. The Dasha and transit 
both were favourable and were in accordance with the principle mentioned under dasha 
/transit parameters. Finally, the girl decided to join B.A. honours in French from Delhi 
University. Here, the role of Ketu is very important in natal chart. Ketu is aspecting 5th 
house, the house of education. The Ketu is the significator of foreign languages, which 
motivated the girl to join foreign language course though she could join the 
Administration or Mass Communication course for which also she qualified the 
entrance examination. 


22 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


CHATURVIMSHAMHA 


Case Study - 2 


D.O.B.-7:03:1972 
T.0.B.-01:55 
P.O.B. - BOMBAY 


This is the horoscope 
of a girl, whose 
academic qualification 
is BA.. She qualified 
the entrance 
examination of P.G. Diploma in Fashion Technology from N.I.F.Tin April 1995to June 
19995 and taken admission in the said course. Now we will analyse the dasha 
operating during this period. She was running under dasha of Mercury, Anterdasha of 
Mars and Pratyanterdasha of Venus. The dasha is of Mercury which is the significator 
of higher education and also is the lagna lord of Chaturvimshamsha, Anterdasha is of 
Mars, the 5th lord placed in the 5th house in its own sign and Pratyanterdasha is of 
Venus which is placed in the 5th house and also conjoined with 5th lord. The role of 
Venus, the Pratyanterdashanath, is very important here. She got admitted in Fashion 
Technology Course in spite of her background of Arts since Venus is the significator of 
fashion. 


Transit; During the above period Satum was transiting in Aquarius and was aspecting 
the 5th house, 5th lord conjoined with 9th lord. It was also aspecting 9th house at that 
time. Jupiter (R) was transiting in Scorpio and was aspecting 5th house and 5th lord 
due to its retrogation since a retrograde planet also gives its aspect from the previous 
house in which it is placed. From the above it is clear that during the above period 
dasha as well as transit principles were fully applicable, which causes higher education 
to the native. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 23 


7. Timing for rise in Profession 


Predicting of Profession and timing of rise in profession is quite a difficult job for 
astrologers. Numbers of factors are associated with determining the professional field 
of a native and timing for events for rise in profession. The 10th House is the most 
important house for profession, however due importance is to be given to 9th house 
being the house of luck and 2nd house being the house of status. While analysing the 
profession of the native, we should assess 10th house, alongwith 9th, 11th and 2nd 
houses. Dashamasha is the concerned divisional chart for the profession. The strength 
of 10th lord in dashamasha chart i.e. D-IO and position and strength of lagna lord of D- 
10 should be given equal importance while analysing the profession, otherwise the 
results can be misleading. The profession of the native will be related to the signification 
of planets influencing 10th house and 10th lord through placement, conjunction and 
aspect. 


| would like to mention the different professions signified by the different planets for the 
knowledge of the readers. 


The Sun is the significator of Administration, Government and profession relating to 
practice of medicine. 


The Moon signifies profession related to hospitality and public relations. 
Mars signifies the armed forces, police, entrepreneurship. 
Mercury signifies finance, structural designing, writing and Astrology. 


Jupiter signifies education, legal profession, consultants, spirituality related profession 
and financial management. 

Venus signifies TV and Film Industry, life saving drugs, financial advisor, music, dealing 
in luxurious items. 

Saturn signifies industries, service, dealing with lab our, industrial workers and 
leadership for politician. 

Birth chart only indicate the professional field of the native, the timing of events are 
indicated by Dasha of planets operating during a particular period. 

For determining timing of rise in profession, following parameters are to be evaluated. 
The events related to profession, rise in profession will take place in the dasha of 
following planets. The results will be according to the signification of planets whose 
dasha is in operation. 


24 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Dasha Parameters 

1. Dasha of 10th lord of Birth Chart. 

2. Dasha of the Dispositor of 10th lord, 
3. Dasha of Lagna Lord of Dashamsha. 
4 


. Dasha of planets aspecting 10th house, 10th lord, planets conjoined with 10th lord 
and planets placed in 10th house. Planets aspecting or conjoined with dispositor 
of 10th lord. 


5. Dasha of 7th lord, since it is alternative house of profession being 10th from 10th 
house. 


Transit Parameters 


During dasha of planets associated with above parameters the Saturn and Jupiter 
must make contact by way of conjunction or aspect with the two conditions out of four 
mentioned below : 


1. 10th house, 2. 10th lord, 3. 7thhouse, 4. 7th lord from Lagna or Moon 


If Dasha parameters and Transit parameters are satisfied, the native will be able to 
achieve success and rise in profession. The results will be in accordance with the 
strength of the planets in birth chart and divisional charts. If the planet is strong, it will 
give good results and if 
weak or afflicted, bad 
results will be 
experienced. 


Case Study-1 


D.O.B.-19:10:1952 
T.O.B.-15:15 

P.O.B, -NAJIBABAD 
COUNTRY- INDIA 


The above mentioned 
horoscope is of a Govt. servant who joined Government service on 31-05-1973 asa 
Lower Division Clerk and was promoted to the post of Accounts Officer. The native 
was appointed on 31-05-1973, promoted as a U.D.C on 26-11-1979 and as a Accounts 
Officer after qualifying the departmental examination on 21-01-1987. The table below 
shows the dasha running at the time of appointment and promotion and transit of 
Satum and transit on the date of event. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 25 


Date of event Dasha Running Transit of Saturn Jupiter 


31:05:1973 Jup/Saturn/Jupiter Taurus Capricorn (r) 
26:11:1979 Jupiter/Sun/Mer Virgo Leo 
21:01:1987 Satum/Satum/Rahu Scorpio Aquarius 


On the date of his appointment in Government department, the native was running 
under dasha of Jupiter which is the dispositor of 10th lord Mars, Anterdasha was of 
Satum which is aspecting 10th house by its 3rd aspect, anterdasha is of Jupiter which 
is dispositor of 10th lord Mars. 


On the date of promotion as UDC, the native was running under dasha of Jupiter 
whose position has been explained above, the anterdasha was of the Sun, lord of 7th 
house, the alternative house of profession being 10th from the 10th house and 
significator of 10th house. Anterdasha was of Mercury which is conjoined with the 
Sun, the lord of 7th house, the alternative house of profession. When the native was 
promoted direct to the class-2 post, he was running under dasha of Saturn, which was 
aspecting 10th house, which is also lagnesh. Anterdasha was also of Saturn. The 
Pratyanter dasha was of Rahu whose dispositor Saturn was aspecting 10th house. 


In all the three events, dashas of planets are associated with the dasha parameters 
stated above. Now we will examine the principles mentioned below under Transit. 


On 31-05-1973 Saturn was transiting in Taurus which was in 10th house of the birth 
chart and retrograde Jupiter was transiting in Capricorn from where it was aspecting 
7th house, the alternative house of profession. On 26-11-1979, Saturn was transiting 
in over Virgo and was aspecting 10th house of the birth chart and Jupiter was transiting 
in Leo which is 7th house, the alternative house of profession. 


On 21-01-1987, Saturn was transiting in Scorpio, the 10th house of the birth chart and 
Jupiter was transiting in Aquarius from where it was aspecting 7th house of the birth 
chart which is the alternative house of profession. 


Thus Transit of Saturn 
and Jupiter was 
satisfying the principles 
laid down under 
parameters of transit. 


Case Study-2 


D.O.B.- 29:11:1977 
T.O.B:-00:01 
P.O.B. - CALCUTTA 


26 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


The above horoscope is of a young lady who was selected in I.F.C.1. through campus 
placement of Delhi School of Economics, University of Delhi and joined directly in the 
officer cadre on 3-07-2000. 


The native on the date of appointment was running under the dasha of Saturn/Saturn/ 
Venus. Saturn is aspecting 10th house of the native, as dasha lord. Saturn is also 
anterdasha lord and does not need any further explanation. The Pratyanter dashawas 
of Venus which is 10th lord of the birth chart. Thus all the planets are associated with 
parameters laid down under dasha parameter. 


Now, we will examine the transit of Saturn and Jupiter on the date of movement. On 3- 
07-2000 , the Saturn was transiting in Taurus the 10th house of the birth chart and 
Jupiter was also transiting in the same. The transit of Saturn and Jupiter is also 
satisfying the principles laid down under Transit. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 27 


8. How to Identify 
Timing of Marriage 


The Marriage is the institution for the continuance of mankind. Marriage is the most 
important event in the life of a manAvoman. The 7th house of a Horoscope signifies 
marriage as already explained under chapter of signification of houses. Venus is the 
significator for Marriage. In addition to Venus Rahu is the natural significator of 
Marriage. The good position of 7th house, 7th Lord and Venus the natural significator 
of marriage and life provides the native with happy conjugal life. If the 7th house, 7th 
lord and Venus are weak or afflicted in the Horoscope due to debilitation/combustion, 
ill placement in 6th, 8th, or 12th house, debilitated in Navamsha, afflicted by conjunction 
of malefic planets or aspected by them it makes the married life troublesome and if 
there is heavy affiliation of 7th house, 7th lord, Venus and 7th house from the Venus, it 
results in denial of marriage. 


Therefore we should first examine the promise in the horoscope and should see whether 
there is a provision of early and happy marriage or there is any delay in it, marital 
discord or denial of marriage. 


After examining the promise in the horoscope, the next question crops up when the 
marriage will take place. Generally, the time of marriage depends upon the nature of 
7th lord. If Mercury is the 7th lord, there may be early marriage i.e. between 18 to 20 
years, If Mars is the 7th lord, marriage will take place : between 20 to 21, if Venus is 
the 7th lord, it will take place between 20 to 22. If it is Moon 22-to 23, if itis Jupiter, at 
the age of 24, If itis sun itis at the age of 26 and if itis Saturn, at the age of 28 years. 
These ages are based on.natural age of the planets. 


One question is generally asked by the people, what will be the nature of their life 
partner. This question can be replied easily .We should note down which sign is falling 
in 7th house of the native. 


If there is Aries, Leo or Sagittarius in the 7th house of the native, his/her life partner 
may be fiery in nature, arrogant, courageous, impatient and having leadership qualities. 


lf Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn signs is falling in the 7th house the life partner of the 
native may be pleasure seeker, having analytical approach and may be fully involved 
in materialistic pursuits. 


If Gemini, Libra and Aquarius signs are falling in the 7th house, the life partner of the 


28 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


native may be of communicable approach, ambitious, imitative nature, diplomat in 
nature and full of tactfulness. 


{f Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces are falling in the 7th house, the life partner of the native 
may of volatile nature, peace loving and moody. 


The horoscope of the native will indicate the promises of marriage in life such as early 
marriage, happy marriage, delayed marriage, marital discord or denial of marriage 
but timing of marriage will be indicated by the dasha and transit of planets operating 
at particular time. 


To determine the timing of marriage, following parameters are to be evaluated. The 
marriage can take place in the dasha of the following planets. 


Dasha Parameters 
Dasha of 7th Lord. 
. Dasha of Lagna Lord being 7th house from the 7th house. 
. The Dasha of Lagna Lord of Navamsh Chart. 
. The dasha of Dispositor of 7th lord. 
. The dasha of Venus or Rahu, the natural marriage giver. 
. Dasha of planets placed in 7th house, conjoined with 7th lord and aspecting 7th 
"Jord. 


7. Dasha of 7th lord from Moon, Venus and planets posted in 7th house from Moon or 
Venus. 


oa fF WN 


During dasha of planets mentioned above Saturn and Jupiter will make contact with 
two conditions out of the conditions mentioned below: 


7th house, 7th lord, Lagna , Lagna Lord from Lagna or Moon. 


If dasha parameters and transit parameters are favourable and are covered by the 
parameters set above, 
the marriage will take 


place during that 

period. Neu / 
Case Study-1 
D.O.B.- 21:04:1976 


T.O.B - 17:30 
P.O.B. - CHANDIGARH 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 29 


The marriage of this boy was fixed for 6:02:2003. Now, we will analyse the dasha 
which will be running on 6:02:2008. He was running under the dasha of Rahu, antardasha 
of Mercury and Pratyantar dasha of Jupiter. Rahu is the natural marriage giver, The 
anterdasha lord mercury is the lagna lord, the lord of 7th house from the 7th house and 
Pratyanaer dashanath Venus is the natural significator of marriage. All the three planets 
are associated with the parameters set under dasha parameter. 


Transit on 6:02:2003 The Saturn will be transiting in Gemini (R) and was aspecting 7th 
house of the horoscope. The Jupiter was transiting in Cancer (R) and it was also 
aspecting the 7th house of the birth chart. Thus transit parameters was also in 
accordance with the principles set under transit principles. 


Case Study-2 


D.O.B- 29:11:1977 
T.O.B.- 00:01 
P.O.B - CALCUTTA 


This is the horoscope of 
a girl with whom the 
marriage of the boy 
mentioned above has 
been fixed. Now, we will 
be analysing the dasha under which the girl was running on 6:02;2002. She was running 
under the dasha of Saturn / Mer, Venus. Saturn wasaspecting 7th house of the birth 
chart. Mercury is posted in 7th house from Moon and Venus is the natural significator 
of the marriage. Thus all the planets were covered under the principles laid down 
under dasha parameters. 


Transit : Saturn(R) was transiting in Gemini aspecting 7th lord of birth chart and Jupiter 
was transiting in Cancer(R) and was aspecting 7th house due to (R), the (R) planets 
give aspect from the 
previous house also. 
The transit parameters 
are also fulfilled. 


Case Study - 3 


D.O.B.-22:08:1945 
T.O.B.-11:20 
P.O.B -Kapurthala 


30 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


The Marriage of the native took place on 28:06: 1975. The native was running under 
the dasha of Jupiter/Jupiter Venus. The Dashanath Jupiter is aspecting lagna lord 
Venus. The AD nath is also Jupiter having same qualifications, the Pratyanter dashanath 
is Venus, the lagna lord and natural marriage giver. 


Transit: On the date of marriage, Saturn was transiting in Gemini and itwas aspecting 
Venus by 10th aspect the lagna lord. Jupiter was transiting in Pisces and it was 

aspecting lagna the 7th house from the 7th house. Thus Saturn and Jupiter were 

satisfying the parameters set under transit parameters. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 31 


9. Timing of Birth of Children 


The Institution of Marriage is sacred. Itis meant to facilitate the Graheya and Saruta 
dharamas. According to the Hindu Shastras the son is one who saves the parents 
from hell. The 5th House is generally considered as the indicator of Progeny and 
Education. The primary concern of 5th house is progeny and most of the astrological 
predictions based on this house is about children one begets. The alternative house 
of children is 9th being 5th house from the 5th. The Saptamshais the Divisional Chart 
which gives more clues about children. It has to be simply read as Rashi Chart. While 
reading the divisional chart, importance is to be given to the Lagna and Lagna Lord of 
the Saptamsha and concerned house i.e. 5th house and its lord in the Saptamsha. 
Speculator predictions can be given in cases where the Birth Chart and Divisional 
Chart i.e. Saptamsha point to the same thing. 


Suppose, in Rashi Chart the 5th lord is in the 8th house and 5th lord of the sapthmasha 
is also in the 8th house of the saptamsha. Here, we can predict that possibility of 
children is very less. 


In astrology, Jupiter is said to be the significator of children, particularly of male Child. 
We must give equal importance to Jupiter in addition to the 5th lord, while analysing 
matter relating to the children. 


The people are generally anxious to know the sex of their child, number of male or 
female child. ! am describing below astrological combinations which give male or 
female child. 


1. If 5th Lord is in female sign, female Navamsa and in constellation of female 
nakshatra, there may be girls more than boys to the parents. 


2. Ifabove criteria applies to the male sign, male navamsha , in male nakshatra, birth 
of male children more than female is indicated. ‘ 


3. If 5th lord is in dual sign, dual navamsha, birth of twins is indicated. 


4. Ifthe 5th lord occupies the first six houses counted from lagna, early birth of children 
is indicated and from 7th to 12th houses, the number of children will be on lesser 
side. 


There are certain astrological combinations, which lead to denial of children. | am 
describing these combinations below : 


32 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


1. Rahu in 5th house owned by Mars or in Virgo. 

2. Rahu conjoined with 5th lord. 

3. Rahu in 5th house aspected by Mars. 

4. Rahu in Lagna and Mars and Jupiter in 5th house. 

5. Rahu conjoined with Mercury in 5th house. 

6. Mars in 2nd house and Saturn in 3rd. 

Now | will describe the effects of various planets in 5th house in respect of children. 

Sun Troublesome birth of child. Well aspected Sun grants gains from 
the children. 

Moon Famous or notorious child. Affliction to the Moon from 8th or 12th 
house indicates death of children. 

Mercury Parents remain worried about their children. 

Mars Troublesome birth of children. If Mars afflicted by Jupiter or Venus, 
children may be destroyed. 

Jupiter Obedient and dutiful children. 

Venus Artistic or musical minded children possible. 

Satum Delay in birth of children. If afflicted by Mars or Venus, children 


will not have sympathy with parents. 
The astrological evaluation of 5th house, 5th Lord. Jupiter and 5th house from Jupiter 
indicates the promise of birth of children favourable or unfavourable but timing of birth 
of children is indicated by the dasha of the planets in operation during a particular 
period in correlation with transit of planets. 
For determining the time of events for birth of children, we have to analyse the dasha 
operating, The birth of children will take place in the dasha of the following planets. 
lL The Dasha of 5th Lord. 
. Dispositor of 5th Lord. 
. Dasha of Lagnalord of Saptamsha . 
. The Dasha of Jupiter, the natural significator,. 


. Dasha of 5th lord from Jupiter /Moon, the planet placed in 5th house from Moon or 
Jupiter. 


6. Dasha of Dispositor of 5th Lord. 


7. Dasha of planets placed in 5th house, conjoined with 5th lord and planets aspecting 
the 5th lord. 


oa fw NY 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 33 


Transit Parameters 


During dasha of planets associated with above mentioned parameters the Saturn 
and Jupiter must make contact with two conditions out of four mentioned below through 
conjunction or aspect. 


1.5th House, 2. 5th Lord, 3 9th house 4. 9th lord from Lagna or Moon. 

lf Dasha parameters and transit parameters are satisfactory in accordance with the 
above parameter the birth of children will take place during that particular period. 

Now I will discuss various case studies to show how the above principles are applicable 
in finding the timing of birth of children. 

Case Study-1 
D.O.B 19:10:1952 
T.O.B. 15:15 


P.O.B. NAJIBABAD, 
INDIA 


D-7 
Saptansh 


The native has been 
blessed with three 
children- two daughters 
and one son. The dates 
of birth of children, 
dasha running at the 


time of their birth and transit of Saturn and Jupiter on the dates of birth of children have 
been shown in the table below : 


D.O.B. Of Child Dasha In Operation Transit Of Saturn/Jupiter 

10-12-1984 Satum/Satur/Satum Saturn in Libra and Jupiter in 
Sagittarius. 

31-08-1986 Saturn/Satumn/Moon = Saturn in Scorpio and Jupiter in 
Aquarius 

30:11:1988 Saturr/Mercury/Moon Saturn in Sagittarius and 


Jupiter in Taurus(r) 


First Child : Saturn is 5th lord from Moon, Anterdashanath is also Saturn having 
same qualifications, Pratyanter dashanath is also Saturn having same qualifications. 


Second Child : Mahadashanath and Anterdashanath is Saturn, the 5th lord from 
Moon and Pratyanterdashanath is Moon which is conjoined with 5th lord from Lagna 
i.e. Mercury. 


34 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Third Child: Mahadashanath is Saturn, the 5th lord from Moon, Anterdashanath is 
Mercury, the 5th lord from Lagna and Pratyanterdashanath is Moon which is conjoined 
with 5th lord from Lagna. 


From above analysis it is ascertained that Dashanath, Anterdashanath and 
Pratyanterdashanath are associated with planets as mentioned in the parameters set 
under Dasha parameters. 


Transit: 


First Child: The Saturn was transiting in Libra and it was conjoined with 5th lord 
mercury from lagna, The Jupiter was transiting in Sagittarius from where it was 
aspecting 5th house from Lagna. 

Second Child: Saturn was transiting in Scorpio, itwas conjoined with natal Venus 
which is 10th lord from Lagna and Jupiter was transiting in Aquarius from where it was 
aspecting 5th house and 5th lord Mercury. 

Third Child : The Saturn was transiting in Sagittarius from where it was aspecting 5th 
house from Lagna and Jupiter was transiting in Taurus conjoined with 10th lord from 
Lagna. 


From above analysis it is clear that Saturn and Jupiter were satisfying the parameters 
set under transit parameters. 


Case Study - 2 
D.O.B.- 4:10:1957 D-1 


T.O.B.- 4:15 
P.O.B.-DELHI Mer. Mar. 
up. Su 
6 a 
Jupiter Anterdasha and ax oe 
Pratyanterdasha of 
Saturn. Jupiter is the 5th Lord from Lagna and natural significator of children. Saturn is 


5th lord from natural significator. The Pratyanterdashanath is also Saturn which is 5th 
lord from Jupiter. Dasha parameters are satisfied. 


The native has been 
blessed with a daughter 
on 31-05-1986. The 
native was running 
under the Dasha of 


Transit 


Saturn was transiting in Scorpio(R) on 31-05-1986 from where it was aspecting 5th 
house from Lagna and Jupiter was transiting in Aquarius from where it was aspecting 
5th lord from Moon. Thus Transit parameters were also fulfilled. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 35 


Case Study - 3 


D.O.B.- 22:08:1945 
T.O.B.-11:20 
P.O.B.-KAPURTHALA 


The native was blessed 
with a daughter on 29: 
11; 1977 when he was 
running under 
Mahadasha of Jupiter, 
Anterdasha of Saturn 
and Pratyanterdasha of Moon. Jupiter is the natural significator of children, Saturn is 
5th lord from Lagna and Moon is posted in 5th house from Jupiter. 


Transit: Saturn on the date of birth of the daughter was transiting in Leo and was 
aspecting 5th house whereas Jupiter, conjoined with the lord 5th from Lagna, was 
transiting in Gemini(R). Thus transit of Saturn/Jupiter was satisfying the conditions 
laid down under principle of transit. 


36 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


10. Timing of Foreign Travels 


With globalization of Trade/Education and fast means of transportation, one can visit 
foreign countries in couple of days. People have become interested in visiting foreign 
countries for various reasons such as education, business, pleasure trips, marriage, 
diplomatic assignments etc. 


The 7th, 9th, 8th and 12th houses are the houses connected with foreign travels. Rahu 
is the significator for foreign visits. Purpose of foreign visit can be ascertained with the 
help of house lord connection/relationship with 12th house or 12th lord. If 5th lord is 
associated with 12th house and 12thlord, it indicates foreign visit for education. If itis 

70th or 7th lord then it is connected with profession and marriage respectively. If itis 
Ath house or 4th lord it indicates residence in the foreign countries. If 9th house or 9th 
lord is having connection with 12th house or 12th lord the purposed visit may be for 
attending seminars or religious visit. 


The Rahu is the most important planet for foreign trip if itis posted in 12th, 9th, 8th or 
7th house and 4th house it indicates foreign trip during its Dasha or Anterdasha, Another 
important house for foreign visit/settlement is 4th house since it is significator of 
residence and motherland of the native. If 4th house and 4th lord are connected with 
12th house and 12thlord, it indicates residence in the foreign country. If 4th lord is in 
12th house in a moveable sign it indicates frequent visit to foreign countries and residing 
there for short periods. But if 4th lord is in 12th house in a fixed sign it indicates 
permanent residence in a foreign country. 


!am describing astrological combinations which give permanent residence in foreign 
counties. These combinations have been tested on various horoscopes of those who 
are permanently settled in foreign countries. 


1. 4th house/ 4th Lord from Lagna are afflicted by malefic planets by way of placement, 
aspect or 4th house is hemmed in between two natural malefic planets. 


2. 4th house/ 4th lord from Moon are also afflicted in the same manner as stated 
above. 


3. 4th house/ 4th Lord from Padlagna afflicted in the same manner as stated above. 
4. 4th house/ 4th Lord of Navansh afflicted in the same manner by malefic planets. 


If allthe combinations mentioned above are available in the horoscope of a native, he 
may have permanent settlement in a foreign country. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 37 


lt is essential to mention as to how Padlagna should be worked out. See where the 
Lagna lord is located from Lagna, count the distance of house traveled by Lagna lord. 
Then count the same distance from placement of Lagnalord, the house so arrived will 
be house of Padlagna and lord ofthat house will be the lord of Padlagna. 


How to calculate Upapad 


See where-12th lord is located from 12th house. Then count the same distance from 
placement of 12th lord and the house so arrived will be house of Upapad and lord of 
that house will be the lord of Upapad. 


After ascertaining the promise of foreign visit in a horoscope, the next question is 
when foreign visit will take place. Foreign visit is possible in the Dasha of following 
planets. 


Dasha Parameters: 


L_ Dasha of 12th Lord from Lagna or Moon. 
2. Dasha of the Dispositor of 12th lord. 
3. Dasha of lord of Upapad house. 
4. Dasha of 5th, 7th, 9th and 10th lord. If these lords are having any connection with 
12th house or 12th lord by way of P.A.C. 
Dasha of planets placed in 12th house, conjoined with 12th lord and aspected by 
12th lord. 
6. Dasha of planets placed in 12th house from Moon or Upapad. 


Important Timing of settlement in foreign countries will take place in the Dasha of 4th 
lord. Planets placed in 4th house, ifthese planets are having relationship with 12th 
house or 12th lord. 


Transit Parameters 


During Dasha of above mentioned planets, Saturn and Jupiter must make contact in 
two conditions out of the conditions laid down below. 


1.12th house, 2.12th lord, 3. Upapad, 4. 12th house or 12th lord from Upapad, 5. 12th 
house or 12th lord from Moon. 


lf dasha and transit parameters are favorable as stated 
above, the native will visit foreign countries. Now, | will 
be describing the case studies to show applicability of 
Dasha parameter and transit parameter stated above. 
'D-1, 


Case Study - 1 


= 
D.O.B.-13:12:1956 
T.0.B:-23:10 4 
P.O.B. - DELHI lipabad 


38 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


The Native visited foreign countries two times as per my knowledge. First visit took 
place on 1-09-2001 to Mauritius in connection with astrological conference and second 
trip took place on 3-09-2002 to U.S.A. as a pleasure trip. 


On 3-09-2002 the native was running under Dasha of Mars/Venus/Saturn. The MD 
lord Mars is the dispositor of 12th lord, AD Lord Venus is aspected by 12th lord and 
Pratyanter dashanath Saturn is conjoined with Rahu which is the significator of foreign 
trip, Saturn was transiting in Gemini which is 12th house from Moon and Jupiter was 
transiting in cancer which is 12th house from Lagna. 


Thus Dasha of planets and transit of Saturn and Jupiter are as per principles stated 
under Dasha parameters and transit parameters. 


On 1-09-2001 the native was running under Dasha of Mars/Ketu/Saturn. Mars is the 
dispositor of 12th lord, ketu is aspected by Upapad lord Saturn. Anterdashanath Saturn 
is conjoined with Rahu, the significator of foreign trip. Saturn was transiting in Taurus 
objectives 12" house and Jupiter was transiting in Gemini which is mercury placed in 
12" house from Upapad. Thus Dasha and transit parameters are fully applicable to 
the visit also. 


Case Study - 2 


D.O.B.-5:5:1958 
T.0.B.-5:45 
P.O.B.-DELHI 


The native is the wife of the person in case study -1 
and she traveled along with her husband on same date 
to the same countries. 


On 1-09-2001 she was running under Dasha of Venus/ 

Jupiter /Venus. The Dasha lord Venus is placed in 12th house from Lagna, 
Anterdashanath Jupiter is 12™ lord from Lagna and Pratyanter dashanath Venus is 
placed in 12th house from Lagna. Saturn was transiting in Taurus, which is the house 
of Upapad, and Jupiter was transiting in Gemini and was aspecting 12th lord from 
Upapad. 


On visit to U.S.A. she was running under the Dasha of Venus/Jupiter/Rahu. The position 
of Venus has already been explained above.Jupiter is 12th lord from lagna and 
Pratyanter dashanath Rahu is the significator of foreign visit. 


The transit of Saturn and Jupiter was in the same sign as it was in the case of first visit, 
their positions do not require any further explanation. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 39 


From above it is established tnat principles laid down 
under Dasha parameters and transit parameter are fully 
applicable to this case study. 


Case Study - 3 


D.O.B.-19:10:1952 
T.0.B.-15:15 
PO.B.-N/ 'IBABAD, INDIA 


This native visited Mauritius in connection with an 

astrological conference on 1-09-2002. Rahu in his 12" house of Lagna indicate foreign 
trip. The native is working in a Government Department where there was no chance of 
visiting a foreign country. He has the knowledge of Astrology which became instrumental 
of his foreign trip since it was promised in his horoscope due to placement of Rahu in 
{2th house from Lagna. On 1-09-2001 the native was running under the Dasha of 
Saturn/Jupiter/Saturn. The Mahadashanath Saturn is the lord of 12th house placed in 
8th house which is the house of overseas trips. The Anterdashanath Jupiter is placed 
in 12th house from the house of Upapad, The Pratyanterdasha was of Saturn having 
qualification of lord of 12th house. 


On 1-09-2001 Saturn was transiting in Taurus, the Upapad house. Jupiter was transiting 
in Gemini from where it was aspecting 12th lord from 
the Moon. Thus in this case also, all the principles of 
dasha and transit are applicable. 


Case Study - 4 


D.O.B.- 22:08:1945 
T.0.B.-11:2 
P.O.B. -KAPURTHALA 


In the natal chart of this native Rahu is placed in 9th 

house from Lagna which indicates the promise of foreign trip. The native has extensively 
traveled various countries of the world in his capacity of Senior Executive in a Ltd. Co. 
But on 1-09-2001 he visited Maratius in connection with an astrological conference. 
On the date of foreign trip of Maratius, he was running under the dasha of Saturn/ 
Moon/Jupiter. The Dashanath Saturn is conjoined with Rahu in natal chart. Rahu is the 
significator of foreign travel. Anterdashanath was of Moon which aspected by 12th 
lord from Moon. 


40 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


The anterdasha was of Jupiter which was placed in 12" house of the natal chart. On 
the date of journey Saturn was transiting in Taurus from where it was aspecting house 
of Upapad, Jupiter was transiting in Gemini which is the 12th house from Upapaa. 


Foreign Settlement Abroad : 


Astrological combinations for foreign settlement have already been explained. Now, 
we will discuss the case 

studies of foreign D-1 D-9 

settlement. 


Case Study -1 
D.O.B. 19:11:1947 
T.O.B. 15:30 

P.O.B. JULLUNDER 


The above mentioned 

horoscope is of a boy 

who went to U.S.A. for . 
higher studies. After completing his studies he got married in U.S.A. and settled there. 
In Birth chart the 5tr lord Sun is conjoined with 12th lord in 8th house. Association of 5th 
lord with lord of 12th house has blessed the native with higher studies in a foreign 
country. The 7th lord Venus is also placed in 8th house the house of overseas conjoined 
with 12th lord Jupiter. Hence the native got married in the foreign country and settled 
there. The Lagna is Aries. Fourth house ofthe birth chart is occupied by Saturn, a 
natural malefic planet. The 4th house from the Moon is occupied by Rahu, malefic 
planet. In Navamsh Chart the 4th house is occupied by malefic planet Sun and it is 
also aspected by Mars which is also malefic. The 4th lord of Navamsh chart is afflicted 
by Rahu/Ketu axis. The Padlagna in the horoscope is Sagittarius and the 4th lord is in 
12th house from Padlagna and in 8th house from Lagna both dusthan hence afflicted. 


From the above analysis itis observed that all the astrological combinations responsible 
for foreign settlement 
exist in the above case 
study. 


Case Study - 2 


The above horoscope 
is of a lady doctor who 
went to U.S.A. for 
training and settled 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 41 


there. The Lagna is Pisces. The 4th house from Lagna and Moon is the same since 
Moon is posted in Lagna. The first rate malefic Mars is posted in 4th house from 
Lagna and Moon. In Navamsh Chart 4th Lord is Moon which is in Rahu Ketu access 
natural Malefic Saturn hence 4th lord from Navamsh is also afflicted. The Padlagna is 
Virgo, the 4th house from Padlagna is occupied by Saturn and aspected by Mars. 
Hence the 4th house from Padlagna is also found afflicted. In Birth chart the 10th lord 
Jupiter is conjoined with Saturn. The 12th lord is in 10th house which clearly indicates 
that the profession of the native will be in a foreign country. 


Case Study - 3 


D.O.B.- 21:01:1950 
T.O.B.- 21:25 

P.O.B. -HARIDWAR, 
INDIA. 


The above mentioned 
horoscope is of a man 
who is now settled in 
U.S.A. after marriage. 
Inhis horoscope the 7th 
lord Saturn is aspected 
by 12th lord Moon from 
7th house, the house of 
marriage which clearly an 
indicates marriage in a foreign country. Now, we will exartine the astrological 
combination of foreign settlement. The 4th lord from Lagna Mars is in Rahu/Ketu axis, 
hence afflicted. The 4th house from Moon is aspected by Saturn the natural malefic 
planet, hence 4th house from Moon is also afflicted. The Padlagna in the horoscope is 
Gemini and in 4th house from Padlagna Ketu and Mars are posted hence they are 
afflicted. The 4th lord of Navamsh Saturn is in Rahu/Ketu axis, hence it is also afflicted 
by malefic planets. All the combinations offoreign settlement exist in this horoscope 
resulting in foreign settlement of the native. In all the case studies the point to be noted 
is that if 4th house or 4th lord is in Rahu/Ketu axis, it enhances the chances of the 
foreign settlement. 


42 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


11. Timing of Accruing 
Land/Property/Vehicle/ 
Domestic Valuables 


The 4th house is the significator of land, property and vehicle as already explained 
under chapter of signification of houses. The Mars is the significator of land and property. 
Venus is the significator of vehicle and other household valuables. The Chaturmasa 
D4 is the concemed divisional chart for evaluating land and property, vehicles, luxurious 
valuables. The Chaturmasa should be read as Rashi chart. 

Importance should be given to Lagna of Chaturmasa and 4th house from Chaturmasa. 
The position strength of Mars and Venus is also to be examined in D-4. The placement 
of 4th lord of birth chart is of utmost importance. If Lagna of D4 is strong and Lagnalord 
is placed in a benefic house, the native may be able to acquire property, vehicle and 
other valuables during his life tenure. If lagna and Lagnalord of D4 is weak due to ill 
placement i.e. in 6th, 8th or 12th house under influence of malefic planets through 
PAC, the native will not be able to acquire fixed assets or vehicle etc. 

For examining land and property, following factors are required to be examined. 


. 4th house. 

2. 4th lord. 

3. Strength of Mars in Birth chart and in D-4. 

4. 4th house from Mars. 

5. Lagnalord of D-4. 

6. 4th house of D-4. 

7. Strength of 4th lord in D-4. 

If above factors are strong, in benefic places, having aspect of benefic planets, the 
native will have land property in abundance but if above factors are weak in dusthan 


6th, 8th, and 12th houses, under influence of malefic planets, the native will not have 
land and property. 


For examination of vehicles/domestic valuables, following factors are required to be 
examined. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 43 


. 4th house. 

. 4th lord. 

. Venus in D-1 and D-4. 

. 4th house from Venus. 

. Lagnalord of D-4. 

. 4th house of D-4. 

7. Strength of 4th lord in D-4. 

If above factors are strong, in benefic houses, well aspected or conjoined with benefic 
planets, the native may own vehicles and other domestic valuables. In case of weakness 


of these factors, the native may not be able to enjoy comforts of vehicles and other 
domestic valuables. 


ork wh a 


After examination of D-1 and D-4, which indicate promise of acquiring land/property, 
vehicles and domestic valuables, the question arises as to when the native will be 
blessed with the objects said above. Timing of acquiring will be indicated by Dasha of 
Planets under operation. 


The native can acquire land/property under the Dashas of following planets. 

| Dasha of 4th lord. 

2. Dasha of dispositor of 4th lord. 

3. Dasha of planets conjoined, aspecting 4th house or 4th lord. 

4. Dasha of Mars, the significator of land and property. 

5. Dasha of 4th lord from Mars. 

6. Dasha of planets placed in 4th house. 

7. Dasha of Lagnalord of D-4. 

Dasha for acquiring vehicles and domestic valuables. 

. Dasha of Venus, the significator of vehicles and other luxurious domestic valuables. 

. 4th lord from Venus. 

. Dasha of Dispositor of Venus. 

. Dasha of Lagnalord of D-4. 

. Dasha of planets in 4th house, conjoined with 4th lord, Venus and aspecting 4th 
lord, 4th house and Venus. 

Transit Parameters: 


During the dashas of above mentioned planets, Saturn and Jupiter should make contact 
by conjunction or aspect in two conditions out of 4 mentioned below : 


1. 4th house 2. 4th lord 3. 7th house 7th lord from Lagna or Moon. 


ahON = 


44 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Now, we will discuss the case studies to show how these parameters are applicable 
to identify the timing of events relating to property/land and vehicles. 


Case Study - 1 


D.O.B.- 4:10:1957 
T.0.B.- 4:15 
P.©.B.-DELHI 


D-4 


The above horoscope is 
of a native whose 
educational qualification 
is simply Hr. Secondary. 
The net worth of theland 
/property and Vehicles 
etc. are in Carore of Rupees. This horoscope is ample proof as to how the planets 
blessed the native with land/property and vehicles etc. during their dashas as per 
promise in the birth chart and Chaturmasa, the concerned divisional chart, for property/ 
land, vehicles and domestic comforts. In Birth chart the 4th lord Mars is placed in 2nd 
house, the house of statusalong with 11th and 2nd lord Mercury which is exalted in the 
2nd house, the house of status and wealth. The Lagnalord and 5th lord Jupiter is also 
placed in 2nd house. A very good Dhanayoga exists in the horoscope. 


The native is personally known to me, therefore | am aware of the fact that whenever 
he has made investment in property the return has been manifold. Now, I will throw light 
on position of Lagnalord of D-4. The Lagna lord of D-4 is Saturn which is posted in 4th 
house of D-4, the house of property/vehicles etc. 


In the sign of friend Venus from where it is aspecting Lagna of D-4, the quite good 
position. The native has made most of the properties during the Dasha of Jupiter 
which is 5th lord of birth chart conjoined with 4th lord Mars having qualifications of 4th 
lord as well as the significator of land/property. 


The native acquired two properties during 16-10-2002 to 26-10-2002- first a commercial 
property in Ansal Plaza in Greater Noida and 2nd - he was allotted an H.I.G Flat in Vasant 
Kunj by D.D.A. in recent draw of lots. 

16-10-2002 to 31-10-2202 


The native was running under the Dasha of Saturn/Mercury/Venus. Saturn is placed in 
4th house of D-l. Itis also the lagna lord of D-4. Mercury is conjoined with Mars the 4th 
lord of D-| and significator of land and property. Venus is the 4th lord of D-4. 


Saturn is transiting in Gemini and is aspecting 4th lord Mars due to ret rogation. Jupiter 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 45 


is transiting in Cancer and aspecting the 4th house of birth chart. From above it is 
observed that Dasha parameters and transit parameter are fully applicable in this case. 


The native purchased an Esteem car in May 1996. During this period the native was 
running under Dasha of Jupiter/MarsA/enus. The Dashanath Jupiter is conjoined with 
Ath lord Mars in 2nd house the house of status. Mars is 4th lord and Pratyanter dashanath 
Venus is the significator of Vehicle. Saturn was transiting in Pisces in may 1996 and it 
was aspecting 4th lord Mars. Jupiter was transiting in Sagittarius from where it was 
aspecting. 


Case Study - 2 
2 D1 
D.O.B.-19:10:1952 


P.O.B.- NAJIBABAD, 
INDIA. 


In the above EA 


horoscope, the 4th 
house of birth chart is 
aspected by its lord Pores 
Venus. The lagna lord 


of D-4 is also aspecting Lagna of D-4, quite a good position. The native acquired a 
house built-up on 100sq. yards in a posh colony on 16-10-1992. 


The native was running under Dasha of Saturn/Venus/Rahu. The Dashanath Saturn is 
4th lord from Moon. The Anterdashanath Venus is 4th lord of D-l and Lagnalord of D-4 
aspecting 4th house of D-1 and Lagna of D-4 -quite good a position. The Pratyanter 
dashanath Rahu is aspecting 4th house of D-1 


Saturn was transiting in Capricorn on 16-10-1992 and it was aspecting the Sun, the 
7th lord which is lord of 7th house i.e. 4th from 4th house. Jupiter was transiting in 
Virgo, being conjoined with Saturn the 4th lord from Moon. 


The native purchased a Maruti-800 car in January 1999. 


The native was running under the dasha of Saturn/Rahu/Jupiter. The Dashanath Saturn 
is 4th lord from Moon whereas the anterdashanath Rahu is aspecting 4th house of 
birth chart and Pratyanterdashanath Jupiter is aspecting Venus, the 4th lord since 
Jupiter is (R). 

On Jan 1999 Saturn was transiting in Aries and was aspecting the Sun, the lord of 7in 
house which is 4th from the 4th house. Jupiter was transiting in Aquarius from where it 
was aspecting the 7th house of D-] which is 7th house i.e. 4th house from the 4th 
house. 


46 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


12. Timing of Birth 
of Younger Brothers 
and Sisters 


The third house is the significator of younger siblings, courage, friends, servants etc. It 
is also called Sahodara Bhava. Mars is the significator of younger brothers and sisters. 
Dreshkan is the concerned divisional chart for younger slibings If 3rd house and 3rd 

lord are well placed and well aspected by a benefic planet, the native is blessed with 

younger slibings The position and strength of 3rd lord in D-3 should also be assessed. 
Equal importance should be given to position of Lagna and Lagnalord of D- 3 and 

placement of 3rd lord d of D-1 in D-3. The gender of the younger brother or sister can 

be determined from the Birth chart. 


1. If there is a male sign in 3rd house, 3rd Lord is placed in the male sign male Navamsh 
and is in constellation of Male Nakshatra, there may be more brothers in comparison 
to younger sisters. 


2. If there is a fernale sign in 31a house, the 3" lord in the female sign female Navamsha, 
in the constellation of Female Nakshatra, the number of sisters will be more than the 
brothers. 


To judge the promise of younger siblings, we should analyse the following. 
. 3rd house. 

. 3” Lord 

. Mars, the significator of younger slibings. 

. Position of Lagna and Lagnalord of D-3. 

5. The placement of 3rd lord of D-1 in D-3. 


If above factors, planets, houses are under the influence of benefic planets. The native 
will be blessed with younger slibings and will have happiness from them. If these factors 
are under the influence of malefic planets due to PAC, the native will be deprived off 
from younger slibings as well as happiness from them. 


WD = 


The Birth Chart and concerned Divisional Chart D-3 indicate promise of younger 


Timing of Everts Through Dasha & Transit 47 


siblings, positive or negative depending upon the strength of 3rd lord, 3rd house and 
Mars, the significator of younger siblings. 


For determining the time of birth of younger siblings, we should study the running Dasha 
pattern. Birth of younger siblings will take place during the Dasha of following planets. 


1. Dasha of 3rd Lord from Lagna or Moon. 

. Dasha of dispositor of 3ra lord 

. Dasha of 5th Lord being 3rd from 3rd house. 

. Dasha of Lagnalord of D-3, the concerned Divisional Chart. 
. Dasha of Mars, the significator of younger siblings. 


mn of WwW DY 


. Dasha of planets placed in 3rd house, aspecting 3rd house and conjoined with 
aspecting 3rd lord. 


Transit parameter 

During the Dasha of above mentioned planets, Saturn/Jupiter must make contact in 
two conditions given below through PAC.. 

1. 3rd house from Lagna or Moon 2. 3rd lord from Lagna or Moon. 3. Sth house from 
Lagna or Moon. 4. 5th lord from Lagna or Moon. 


Now, we will discuss the case studies to show as to how these parameters are 
applicable in indicating 

timing of birth of D-1 D-3 

younger slibings. 


Case Study - 1 
D.O.B.-10:12:1984 
T.O.B, - 12:55 

P.OB - Delhi 


The native was blessed 
with younger sister on 
31-08-1986. On 31-08-1986 he was running under the Dasha of Rahu/Moon/Rahu. 
Now, we will examine the Dasha pattern. Dasha was of Rahu, the planet posted in 3rd 
house of birth chart. The Anterdasha was of Moon, the 5th lord and the lord of 3rd 
house from 3rd house. The Pratyanterdasha was of Rahu, again the planet posted in 
3rd house of birth chart. On 31-08- 1986 Saturn was transiting in Scorpio from where 
it was aspecting 3rd house of Birth Chart. Jupiter was transiting in Aquarius. It was 


48 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


retrograde hence it was 
aspecting the 3rd 
house of Birth chart. 


Case Study - 2 


D.O.B. -31:08:1986 
T.0.B.-4:15 
P.O.B. - Delhi 


This girl was blessed 
with younger brother on 
30-11-1988. On 30-11-1988 she was running under the Dasha of Jupiter/Mercury/ 
Mars. Now, we will examine the operative Dasha. The Dasha was of Jupiter which 
was aspecting 3rd lord of birth chart i.e. Mercury. The Anterdasha was of Mercury, the 
3rd lord of birth chart. The Pratyanter dasha was of Mars the significator of younger 
slibings. On 30-11-1988 , Jupiter was transiting in Taurus from where it was aspecting 
5" house of birth chart, the 3:a house from 3rd house. Saturn was transiting in Sagittarius 
i.e. in 5th house of birthchart again, the 3rd house from 3rd house. 


From above case studies it is clear that the Dasha parameters and transiting 
parameters laid down are fully applicable and help us a lot in deciding the timing of 
birth of younger brothers and sisters. 


Timing of Evens Through Dasha & Transit 49 


13. How To Identify 
Sources of Income 
through Astrology 


Prominent significance of 11 th house is Income and gains. Jupiter is the significator of 
11th house and wealth. The lord of 11th house indicates sources of income as per its 
natural significance and its locations in different houses of the horoscope. The 
conjunction and aspect of different planets with 11th lord have definite impact on sources 
of income of a native. 


For identifying the sources of income we should note down the following factors. 
1. The natural significance ofthe 11th lord. 

2. House where the 11 th lord is located. 

3. The planets placed in the 11 th house and their natural significance, 

4. The planets conjoined with or aspecting 11 th lord. 


The sources of income of the native will be in accordance with the natural significance 
of 11th lord, Signification of the house where it is located, significance of the planet 
placed in 11"house, and significance of the planets conjoined with or aspecting the 
11th lord/11™ house. 


The use of Astrology to identify the sources of income is very useful. The people are 
very much anxious to know the professional field in which they can be successful to 
earn good income. Astrology maybe very useful to advise the native the sources of 
income indicated by the planets. 


For the benefits of the readers | am describing below likely sources of income as per 
location of 11 th lord in the different houses of a horoscope. 


Placement Of 11th Lord Likely Sources of Income 


1 st house Earning of money with self efforts. 

2nd house Earning of income in family business, earning with the 
help of highly placed persons/friends. 

3rd house Income through entrepreneurship, in the field of 


50 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


4th house 


5th house 


6th house 


7th house 


8th house 
9th house 
10th house 


11th house 


12th house 


v 


communications, transportations, writing ,publication 
and sports. 


Income in the business of real estate, educational 
institutions, hotel etc. 


Income from intellectual profession, speculation, 
banking and ministerial consultations. 


Profession related to money lending, legal practice, 
medical professions, chemist, pathology etc. 


Income from foreign land, business of import/export, 
trading in luxurious items. Business in partnership. 


Income from overseas, insurance business and service. 
Income from religious pursuits, foreign trips, teaching. 


Income through own efforts and profession depending 
upon sign in 10th house and planets placed in 10th 
house. 

Income from interest, dividend, financial institutions, 
income with the help of elder brother 


Income from foreign countries, hospital, multinational 
companies. 


Now, we will discuss the horoscopes of some persons engaged in different fields to 
show as to how sources of income can be identified with the help of Birth chart of a 


native. 


Case Study - 1 


D.0.B.- 5:01:1959 
T.O.B.-2:30 
P.O.B.-CHANDIGARH 


This is the horoscope of famous cricket player Kapildev. 
In his horoscope the 11" lord is placed in the 3rd house. 
The third house signifier sports, entrepreneurship, 


communication. It is conjoined with 4th lord which 
signifies hotel. It is conjoined also with 12th lord Mercury which indicates foreign land. 


The sources of income of Kapildev are sports, foreign and hotel according to the 
placement of 11th lord and conjunction of 4th and 12thlords. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 51 


Case Study - 2 


D.O.B.-15:05:1966 
T .O.B. -20:00 HOURS 
P.O.B.-RATNAGIRI. 


This is the horoscope of noted film star Madhuri Dikshit. 
In her horoscope the 1 1th lord is Venus, the significator 
of film industry, which is exalted. It is conjoined with 
Saturn the 2nd and 3rd lord, which indicates highly 

placed friends. It is conjoined also with Moon, 8th lord that indicates overseas. It is well 
known that she is having income from film industry, overseas and entrepreneurship. 

She has recently launched her own company. 


Case Study - 3 
D.O.B.-15:02:1944 
T.O.B.-13:30 


P.O.B.- BOMBAY 


This is the horoscope of noted industrialist Nusliwadia. 
In his horoscope the 11th lord is in 3rq house, which 
signifies entrepreneurship. Itis aspected by Mercy the 
significator of business and Saturn the significator of 
Industry. He is a famous industrialist earning income 
through industry. 


Case Study - 4 


D.O.B.-19:10:1952 
P.O.B. - NAJIBABAD 
T.O.B.- 15:15 


This is the horoscope of a government office, who is 

versed in astrology and earning handsome income 

through its practice. He is also having income through 

legal consultations in departmental cases. The 11th lord 
Jupiter is in the 3rd house, aspected by the Sun the 

significator of government hence income from 

government. Mercury's aspecting Jupiter hence income 
through astrology since Mercury's its significator. Moon is also aspecting Jupiter. Moon 

is 6 lord yjsy indicates legal profession. So, the native income through legal consultancy 
in departmental cases. 


52 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Case Study - 5 
D.O.B. 11:01:1973 


This is the horoscope of. noted cricket player Rahul 
Dravid. In his horoscope the 1 1ti lord is in 3rd house, 
the house of sports. Itis aspected by Mars, the 2nd and 
Qth lord which signifies highly placed persons and foreign 
trip. He is having income through sports, foreign trips 
etc. 


Case Study - 6 


D.O.B. 12:12:1950 
T.0.B.11:50 PM 
P,O.B. MADRAS. 


This is the horoscope of noted film star Rajnikant. In his 
horoscope the 11" lord is in 5th house with Venus, the 
significator of film industry and both are aspecting 11th 
house. Due to this planetary position he is having income 
through film industries and also from the business of 
producing films etc. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 53 


14. How to make Snapshot 
Predictions through Birth Chart only 


During my practice in astrology | have come in contact with various persons those who 
have only their birth chart available with them and they are not aware of the T.O.B. etc. 
They want to have prediction for a particular year and age. | have developed a simple 
technique to solve the problem. First step is to verify the authenticity of birth chart with 
the promise and previous events, such as eldest or youngest in family, number of 
children, profession and personality etc. Once the authenticity of birth chart is confirmed, 
we can easily predict what is likely to be happened with the native during a particular 
period of age or year. This we can call snapshot predictions based on birth chart only. 


Methodology 

1. Note down the running year of the native. 
2. Divide it by 12 

3. Note down the remainder. 

4 


. Now count from Lagna upto remainder. It will indicate the house. The house so 
indicated will be the governing house for that particular year. If remainder is 0 then 
it should be treated as 12th house. 


5. Note- down the lordship of the house, planet posted in the governing house, planets 
conjoined with or aspecting the governing house lord. 


Results 

The results during the particular year wi" be according 

1. Signification of the house involved (governing house). 

2. Signification of the lordship planet of the governing house. 

3. Signification of the house where the governing house lord is located. 

4. Signification of the planets conjoined with or aspecting the lord of the governing 
house. 

5. Signification of the planets aspecting the governing house. 

| have tested these parameters on a number of horoscopes and found 90% accuracy. 


Now, | will discuss case studies to prove the correctness of the Methodology and 
parameters. 


54 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


Case Study - 1 
D.O.B.-19:10:1952 
T.O.B.-15:15 

P.O.B. -NAJIBABAD 


The major events taken place in the life tenure of the 
native are listed below in the tabular shape. 


We will be discussing each event separately to show 
how this methodology is to be applied. 


Date of event Running year Governing By counting 
house from Lagna 

31:05:1973 appointment 

in govt. service 21 9 9th house. 

26:11:1979 promotion 28 4 4th House 

26:11:1983 marriage 31 7 7th House 

10-12-1984 birth of Daughter 33 9 9th house. 

31-08-1986 birth of 

Second daughter 35 11 11th House. 

21:01:1987 promotion 35 11 11th house. 

16:10:1992 purchased, 

a house 40 4 4th house. 


During running year 21 he got service in a government department, when the 9th house 
was the governing house. Lord Venus is in 10thhouse the house of profession which 
aspected by 2nd and 11th lord Jupiter. The native got service since Venus is 9th lord 
i.e. Karmabhava and placed in the 10th house, the house of profession and aspected 
by Jupiter which the lord of status and income for thé native. The event took place as 
per significations of the governing house, its lordship, placement and aspect of the 
planet. 


He was promoted in the running year 28. The governing house was 4th. Venus, the 
governing planet for this yearthe lord of 4th, 9th and is placed in the 10th house. The 
lordship of governing planet and its placement in 10th house caused promotion since 
lord of luck is placed in 10th house. 


Marriage of the native took place in 31 st year. The governing house was the 7th house, 
hence marriage took place. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 55 


The first child was born in 33rd year. The governing house was 9th house. The alternative 
house of children was 5tn from 5t house. The 5tn lord Mercury is placed in the 9th 
house. Placement of 5th lord in the governing house blessed the native with child. 


The second child was born during the running year 35. The governing house was the 
11th. The lord of 11" house is Jupiter, the significator of children which was aspecting 
5t lord Mercury in the natal chart, blessed the native with another child. 


He was promoted during 35th running year. The governing house was the 11th , the 
house of income, aspecting 11th and 10th houses since it is retrograde. This 
combination blessed the native with promotion during this particular year. 


He purchased a house on 16-10-1992. The governing 
house was the 4th house. The lord is Venus was placed 
in 10m house aspecting 4th, its own house. This 
planetary position blessed him with a house. 


Case Study - 2 


D.O.B. 11:02:1920 
T.O.B. 18:15 
Lat -30N 02, Long- 31E02 


This is the horoscope of King Farukh of Egypt. 
Some of the important events of his life are listed below: 


Date of event Running year Remainder Governing house. 
17-07-1925 

Went to foreign country 

For education. 12th. 

Death of father 

April 1936 17 5 5th. 

Marriage 1938 .19 7 7th 


When he was sent for studies, he was only 6 year old. The remainder is 0. The governing 
house is 12th house, the house of foreign land. Itis placed in 5th house, the house of 
education. Therefore the native went to foreign country for education. 


His father died in his 17thrunning year. The remainder is 5 the governing house is 5th, 
the lordship is of 5th and 6th houses placed in 12th house. The governing house was 
5th and the alternative house of father 9tn from 9" house. It is also the lord of 6th house 


56 Timing of Everts Through Dasha & Transit 


which is 2nd house from the Sun the significator and the marak place for father. It is 
placed in 12" house which is 8th from the Sun. It is the house of death for the father. 
The above planetary position resulted in the death of his father. 


He was married during running year 19th. The reminder 
is 7, the governing house is also the 7th house. The 


Mer. (R) 
lord of 7th house is Jupiter which is aspecting 7th house Se ee, 


of natal chart from 11 th house. This planetary position 
caused marriage during running year 19th. 
Case Study - 3 2 


D.O.B.12:06:1947 


The marriage of the native took place in 1971. The TOWN FO 


running year was 35. The is 11. The governing house is 
11th. The 11th lord is placed in 12th house, the house of bed pleasures. It was conjoined 
with Rahu, the natural significator of marriage. From 12™ house it is aspecting 7th 
house the house of marriage. This astrological 
combination caused marriage to the native during his 
35th year of age. 


Case Study - 4 
D.O.B. 14:12:1946 


This is the horoscope of a lady whose marriage took 
place on 29-09-1974, during her 28" year. The 
remainder is 4. The governing house is 4, its lord is 
Mars placed in 12th house, the house of bed pleasures, 
from where it is aspecting 7th house, the house of 
marriage. Marriage took place according to signification of house and the house which 
is being aspected by the lord of governing planet. 


Case Study - 5 
D.O.B.- 12:11:1907 


The business of this native was ruined during his 68th 

running year. The remainder is 8th and the governing 

house is also 8th. The 8th lord is placed in his 10th 

house and is conjoined with Venus, which is the 4th 

and 9tn lord. The 8th house signifies obstruction/ 

destruction. Mercury's placement in 10th house and its 

conjunction with 4th and 9th lord resulted in destructiqn 
of business during that particular period. 


Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 57 


Case Study - 6 


This is he horoscope of a government officer. He 

attained high government post in October, 1977 during 
his running year 35. The remainder is 11 and the 

governing house is 11th. Mars is 11th lord, which placed 
in the 3rd house aspecting 9th and 10 the houses. The 

involvement of 11 “house, the house of gain, the 10th 

house, the house of profession, the 3rd house the house 
of initiative and the 9th house, the house of luck blessed 
the native with high govemment post during his running 
year 35. 


END 


58 Timing of Events Through Dasha & Transit 


