Axshara Prasna 


HAGA: 


Akshara Prasna 


(By Sage Garga & Sage Yavaneswara) 


(An authentic text for answering queries based on Words spoken by the querent) 


Translation and notes by 


Veneet Kumar & Sreenadh OG 


Ancient Indian Astrology Foundation 


Axshara Prasna 4 


About Authors 


Veneet Kumar 


Veneet is a Sanskrit enthusiast, with an interest in astrology too. He is 
an IIT graduate, a native of Jharkhand, currently located in Ranchi, 


Jharkhand. He is interested in and passionate about ancient 


manuscript reading and translation and pursues the same as a hobby. 


He is well versed in multiple languages. 
Contact Details 


Veneet Kumar 


Email: veneet@gmail.com 


Sreenadh OG 


Sreenadh is an Astrology scholar and does astrology not only as a 
hobby but also professionally. He is an IT Professional, a native of 
Kerala, currently located in Calicut, Kerala. He is an expert in 
astrology and has a passion for ancient knowledge and _ its 
presentation in modern language. He is the author of many books in 


Malayalam and English and is a regular contributor of articles for 


magazines and websites. 


Contact Details 

Sreenadh OG, Thejus, Edacheri PO 
Vadakara, Calicult 

Email: sreesog@yahoo.com 
Phone: +91 4962545150 


We plan to work together on many more texts and you can expect many results of our hard work in 
the field of astrology in near future. This is one of our first works together. And many more would 
follow. Keep in touch, and we are busy in work. Have a nice day. Feel free to contact us. 
Veneet Kumar & Sreenadh OG 
www.ancientindianastrology.com 


Axshara Prasna 5 


Contents 


Part—I: Prasnavidya by Sage Garga 

1s. “Introduction 2A a.srevacetit oats ote te ete add ieee ieee anne aeolian OT 
Sage Garga:. ssnsectvapeiehiha sdnet ans cei heneess anes Galati a eed arinnr erent wb eeeens 11 
About:Akshara, Prasna, s2.c.sdovesietanyae nated ony dele ogevssand scuetenga agoxeched apesvivaghigedaveavedendsertaestede 16 
Chapter 1 : Foundation Chapter............ 0.0.0. cccssecssesseseesceeseeseeeseensenseensenaecneenseeneeseeneeeneeenees 34 
Chapter 2 : Chapter on Non-living things 2.0.0... .......ccccccssesssesseeseeseeeseesseeseenseeneensenseeneeeeenees 40 
Chapter 3: Chapter on Plants 2.0.0... ..... ccc cece ecenee eee ene nennnen ene e EE EE Ee feee 45 
Chapter 4: Chapter on Living things ...............ccccecceee cence nee ne ene ee ene eaten eaeaa ena en eneeed 47 

Chapter:S.<:. Miscellaneous... 05 34esss 0 ivnvay bss b) hebae eves dg dd ods ea deen i hlaeda sega de eed haaee ta 51 


SO 120 ST Oy. BO a EO iS 


Appendixes]: vesa chien’ nir ss Nastategaeed sas ialen shee ed eeed san tla Gi bia hee aa tana Bae a 58 
10; Appendixis:2 sexs ssadc¥ ais scuc oui basv ag eh nant et eeie Wang Reba shes peeve eb daw gag MALS tes Late 66 


Part-II: Aksharakosha by Sage Yavaneswara 

1. “Introductions aiveiiie cise iste MRA A ae eee eel 4 

2. AkShatakosais spi aidesaeatadanct (oisaucdaae iy etietetadtarn aud vo aedtes aeura uarean ae 10 
Pe ENE Basics <aMiesssestetsvaieieaae ss heetentas oestrone Me tek eaetee steams catate waelhrenaa 10 
1 ADOUt the Name -oc..c2 5.205 saadecerieseed ieee A vergaed gates vatehan hated aeaveasinatadestdeceteat peas OD 
iii. Details of alphabets in each position within the name .............. cece eee BO 

31. CONCIUSION ps, paths Saca aaa esd eh dahanen eeaen edharibaie at catenseaunniens oul aetivaied eqatedraaattavenaaacaseea deh] 


4. Books: of Reference. 93032 sc0 bese, ase daa ad adiads hs Baia eke ou dha vada Se Sea dei astnedela abe es 9] 


Axshara Prasna 


Part - I 
Weaaqa4 


(art faxfad) 


Prasnavidya 


(By Sage Garga) 


Axshara Prasna 7 


Introduction 


Garga Manorama is also known by the name “Prasnavidya’”’, and is probably is only a chapter 
from a bigger lost text named ‘Garga Manorama’. Possibly even though the name ‘Garga 
Manorama’ gives a special aura to this text, due to its association with the name of Sage Garga; 
the other name ‘Prasnavidya’ better reflect the content and nature of this text. As that name 
suggests, this is a text on Prasna (query) - of the native about his various problems to the 
astrologer, and the methods the astrologer should adopt to answer them. Even though simple and 
short this text is very useful and practical. 

It is also possible that the term ‘Garga Manorama’ was added to original text and was used to 
indicate a commentary on an original text. So there is a possibility of this being a commentary on 
original work of sage Garga, by some later day scholar. May be the term ‘Garga Manorama’ 
indicates that this is a commentary on Garga’s work. Or in other words, it is possible that Garga 
Manorama might not be a text of Garga but a commentary of that name (to text/words by 
someone else. Whatever the case be, Garga's name is amongst the 18 proponents of astrology, so 
his antiquity is beyond doubt, and thus probably the same is the case of this text which gets 


associated with his name too. 


Interpolations and corrupt versions 

Almost all versions of manuscripts and published Hindi translations of Prasnavidya (Garga 
Manorama) are not only corrupt with syntax mistakes, erroneous grammar and interpolations, but 
also incomplete. For example we can find many interpolations from Kerala Prasna Sangraha. We 
have tried our level best to free this text from such errors and mistakes, but still there would 


always remain scope for improvement. 


Value addition 

The concept was that this text should be an authentic reference to "Akshara Prasna" once we 
complete this translation and commentary. It was our vision. There is no point in working in any 
book (or any project) without a unique vision. The question should be ‘how we differ’? Many can 
translate or write commentaries, and many did too. But we wanted - when we touch something it 


should shine with a special beauty. And the truth is - beauty is within us, and we impart it to 


Axshara Prasna 8 


whatever we touch upon. May be the same is true about any good book. If we failed to impart 
beauty to this book, failed to make it informative then it simply means that we simply lack inner 
beauty and knowledge; but if it stir your interest in ancient indian astrology, and does share 
something new with you, then our effort is not wasted. Even though Garga Manorama deals with 
‘first letter’ of Prasnavakya only, our effort was to make it a comprehensive reference text on 
‘Akshara Prasna’ by including an informative write-up named ‘About Akshara Prasna’ in the 
beginning of this text. It is the readers who should decide - by accepting or rejecting this book - 


that whether this effort was successful or not. 


Alphabets in Ideal Alphabet list (Matrika Aksharamala) order 

The well-known Sanskrit alphabets order 31-31-3-$-3-3 etc. is known as ‘Matrika Aksharamala’ 
(Ideal alphabet list). Some believe that this sequence originated from rearranging the order of 
alphabets as told in Maheswara sutra (aphorisms of God Siva). 


About the origin of alphabets and as they are arranged in Siva-sutras (Maheswara-sutras) of 


Panini, the following quote is well known - 


CAAA ACTON Aotle SHH AIITTARA | 
SECA: Tetra Realel Taahaaet Raq aA Ik 


The above quote is memorized/learned by students of Sanskrit Grammar, before learning 
Maheswara-sutras or the grammatical aphorisms of Panini, which is believed to have been given 
to him by God Siva. 

Maheswara-sutras are nothing but the Sanskrit alphabets arranged in some specific order. The 


letter sequences as given in Maheswara-sutras are as follows - 


1) 3-3-3 2) H-@ 3) V-3 4) V-3it 5) S-A-A-Z 6) OT 7) H-A-OT-aT 8) H-H 9) G-S-T 10) H-F-T1-S- 
@ 11) G-H-G-3-A-T-S-7 12) H-T 13) W-V-H 14) 


Thus in total they list 42 alphabets. 1f Maheswara-sutras contained only 42 letters, the ‘Matrika 
Aksharamala’ (Ideal alphabet list) contains 51 letters. lt is told that this Aksharamala is the 


‘garland in the neck of Sarasvati Devi’. Some say that out of it 50 letters are normal letters and 


the 51st letter (&1) is the Meru of the garland. 


Axshara Prasna 9 


In his famous tantra text ‘Prapanchasara’, Sankaracharya remembers this Aksharamala using the 


following quote - 


HTCATAA: Aca ava 

PR PAHAATS WEA CASAS PH | 

THerasareehen wearer fear fet 

fact Tee eter: eet a: Il 

[There are seven groups for alphabets such as - 3, %, J, €, dU, a. They indicate 1.face, 2. left 


hand, 3.right hand, 4.left leg, 5.right leg, 6.middle of the body, and 7.heart (of Goddess Sarada) 
respectively. Goddess Sarada Devi is nothing but the ‘Viswayoni’ (the supreme source of 
everything), who rules the whole world. Let that Goddess of everything purify our 


consciousness. | 


sve [ee 
l= 


i ecsaad 


Some classify the alphabets in the above Matrika Aksharamala into three categories such as - 


1) The 16 vowels from 3T to 31: as Lunar (Te-Gavs) 


Axshara Prasna 10 


2) The 25 letters from & to A as Solar (qaravs) 


3) The 10 letters from J to af as Fiery (31feTaUs) 


Thus the total of 16 + 25 + 10 =51 letters gets completed. 

It is these Aksharas which are used with reverence for finding the Akshara-Lagna and thus 
predict the whole results based on current planetary position in ‘Akshara prasna’. This is a well- 
respected system of prasna, which helps the astrologer in answering queries even when multiple 


queries are asked at the same time, by the same or different querents. 


Conclusion 

We hope this work would be helpful in bringing to light the beauty of rare and neglected 
resource text ‘Prasnavidya (by Sage Garga)’. As a norm our general approach is not to prepare 
mere translations, but to value add on the same with enough good material so that the text may 
comprehensively cover a subject. Following the same path, we have tried to make this text a 
comprehensive reference text on ‘Akshara Prasna’ (the effort to answer the queries based on first 
sentence/word/alphabet uttered by the querent alone. We sincerely hope that this plan became a 


success in this text too. 


Thanks 
Thanks to many who helped us such as Chandrasekhar Sharma, Shankar G Hegde etc. by 


reviewing this text. Hope that you will enjoy this text. 


With regards, 
Veneet & Sreenadh 
- 000 - 


Axshara Prasna 11 


Sage Garga 


The text ‘Gotra Patrika’ says - 

Garga is the son of Rishi Bharadwaja and Suseela, Gargya (son of Garga) is the author of some 
of the Sukthas of the Atharvana Veda. Sage Garga was the family priest of the family of Nanda 
(the foster-father of Krishna). He named the child as "Krishna" after receiving the name by 
meditation, Garga is the author of Garga Samhita. 

The Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra: In this sastra, in chapter 21, Parasara quotes Garga and 
Brahma on the effects of the 10th bhava (house). Sri Prasanna Parvathi Sametha Gargeshwari 
temple near Mysore is named after Garga where Ardhanareeswara appeared before him. 

The texts connected with sage Garga’s lineage are Garga Jataka, Garga Samhita, Garga Hora, 
Vridha Garga Samhita, Rishiputra Samhita etc. This school is as old as the Arsha school and 
was much respected for its uniqueness and sincerity. The methodology followed is same as that 
of Arsha school, but opinions differ regarding various results between the two schools. 

The first guru in this school of astrology is thought to be Brahma. In Garga Hora it is said that 


Rishi Garga obtained this knowledge from Brahma. The relevant slokas are: 
Fae AAA YS Taal af oteHeaA | 
Fara SAAT HEAT Daearaesl I 
FT FAAS: GC HATHA WAT | 
CoA CAH UT TMA APRAA || 
AeAPT Mey Me Met IRTAOT Teper | 
Aecal Bfsetasyat geet: Et: TASETETA| 
(Garga Hora, Rf. BSBU) 
[(Garga Rishi says) This system of knowledge is created by Lord Brahma himself, and is like the 
eyes for Brahmins. It is part of Vedas and aims at the attainment of Brahm (spiritual 
enlightenment). It is useful in Yaga (for determination of Yaga timings etc.). I got this system of 


knowledge from Lord Brahma. The knowledge of astrology is considered highly even by the 


devas (heavenly beings) and is useful in determining the right time for Vedic rituals (such as 


Axshara Prasna 12 


Yajna). From me, this excellent knowledge was acquired by other Rishis through a tradition (of 
teachers and students) the by them the knowledge was spread through the texts composed by 
them. ] 

This probably means that by the time of Garga many astrological texts existed, related to Skanda, 
Brahma etc. And probably before his period is over many new texts emerged in the name of 
many Rishi kulas closely related to Rishi names. Sage Garga says that the knowledge of 
astrology was acquired by other rishis later from him. The Rishi Kulas (sage traditions, lineages) 
were like universities where every the new Acharya for the Kula would be known by the name of 
the originator of the Kula. It is similar to the Sankaracharya tradition of today where every new 
person coming in charge would be called Sankaracharya. Some of these Rishi Kulas were that of 
Garga, Vasishtha, Kousika, Atri, Chyevana, Agastya, Parasara etc. We should remember this fact 
while studying the knowledge passed on by Rishi Paramparas. Otherwise we may confuse many 
individuals having the same designation with one another. (e.g. Parasara Kula was another such 
tradition.) 

Garga wrote books on all the 3 branches of astrology, namely Siddhanta, Samhita and Hora. That 
means that the 3 popular texts written by Rishi Garga are — Garga Siddhanta, Garga Jataka and 
Garga Samhita. Many slokas from Garga Jataka and Garga Samhita are available but nothing 
from Garga Siddhanta is extant. In Hridyapatha, Brihat Samhita etc. we can see many quotes 
from Garga Jataka and Garga Samhita. There are many more ancient texts that quote from these 
texts by Garga Rishi. All the texts written by Garga Rishi are in Sanskrit. 

Garga Samhita is available even today in some manuscript libraries. The language of this 
manuscript (Garga Samhita) is a mixture of Prakrit and Sanskrit. Astrology texts not only by 
sage Garga, but by sages Gargi and Gargya are also available. These names are either that of the 
son of Garga and the grandson of Garga or of other acharyas of the Garga Kula. Many texts 
which ascribe their authorship to Garga, Gargi and Gargya are available (e.g. Gargya Samhita, 
Garga Jataka, Garga Manorama etc. etc.) — but we cannot be sure about the authenticity of these 
texts. 

Garga Rishi was also known as ‘Jainarshi' (Jain Rishi), indicating that he followed Jain religion. 
A sloka quoted in the text “‘Bharateeya Jyotish' (by Nemichandra Sastri) supports it. The great 
Jain Rishi ‘Rishiputra’ (the author of Surya Prajnapti, Chandra Prajnapti, Rishiputra Samhita 


etc.) is believed to be the son of Garga, indicating that perhaps Garga too was a Jain. 


Axshara Prasna 13 


It is likely that there lived many Gargas other than Gargi, Vriddha Garga, Gargya etc. Some 
clues about Garga who probably also wrote ‘Garga Samhita’ are available in Adbhuta Sagara of 
Ballalasena. The 12th century Jain king Ballalasena, in his text named ‘Adbhuta Sagara’ (which 
deals with ‘wonders’ or ‘exceptions’ that happens on nature), quotes Garga, which helps us to 


ascertain the period of Sage Garga. 
Fer ferqeetsepAed: AATOTACATAT | 
FVM SAU Sal PAA ASTI II 


(Garga Samhita, Rf.AS) 
[If the Uttarayana starts and Sun returns after touching the Nakshatra near Dhanishta (i.e. after 
touching Sravana), and if Dakshinayana starts before sun touches Aslesha Nakshatra then great 
fear could arise. ] 
This quote indicates that during the period of this Garga winter solstice was in Sravana 
Nakshatra and summer solstice was in Aslesha Nakshatra. If we assume that Summer solstice 
happened at the beginning of Aslesha Nakshatra around 1100 BC. Thus certainly Sage Garga 
(who wrote the above slokas) lived around 1100 BC (even though we cannot be certain about the 
period of other Gargas, Gargis, Vriddha Gargas, Gargyas etc.) 
Garga feared that the ancient sastras would get violated. As per the ancient text he said (could be 
texts like Vedanga Jyotisha) that the Uttarayana should start when Sun is at the beginning of 
Dhanishta and Dakshinayana should start when sun is at the middle of Aslesha. But this was not 
happening during his period. He was worried because, as is evident from this quote, he was 
unaware about the phenomenon called “precession of equinoxes”. Probably Garga was a Jain 
sage, and the Jain religion originated and was present even before his period, as evident from the 


fact that the name of Rishabha Deva the originator of Jain religion is mentioned in Rigveda. 


Vriddha Garga 
This is another famous scholar of Garga Kula. Two texts are known by his name — Vriddha 
Garga Siddhanta and Vriddha Garga Samhita. Of these Vriddha Garga Siddhanta is available 


even today, but only some slokas of Vriddha Garga Samhita is available. 


Axshara Prasna 14 


The following quote of ‘Vriddha Garga’ (possibly from ‘Vriddha Garga Samhita’) quoted in 
Adbhuta Sagara of King Ballalasena helps us to identify that Vriddha Garga lived much after the 


period of the ancient sage Garga who lived around BC 1100. The quote is as follows - 
Helge HA ashe forged: Mead VAI 


(Vriddha Garga, Rf.AS) 
[Uf the Uttarayana starts and) even if Sun returns after crossing over Dhanishta Nakshatra (i.e. 
after touching Sravana), (and if Dakshinayana starts before Sun touches Aslesha Nakshatra then 
too there will not any great fear, but instead only) auspicious results will occur (because that is 
only natural for the current time)] 
Note that Vriddha Garga is correcting the statement by Sage Garga. Sage Garga (of BC 1100) 
was worried because, as is evident from this quote, he was unaware about the phenomenon 
called ‘precession of equinoxes’, and he was expecting the Sun to return (Uttarayana to start) 
when Sun reaches Dhanishta Nakshatra as told in texts like ‘Vedanga Jyotisha’ (of Lagadha who 
lived around BC 1400). But it was not happening like that. But by the time of Vriddha Garga, he 
was well aware of ‘precession of equinoxes’ and realized that Sun returning at Dhanishta 
Nakshatra (as told in Vedanga Jyotisha of BC 1400) is no more a fact, and also that the natural 
phenomena for the period of Vriddha Garga as Sun crossing over Dhanishta Nakshatra, reaching 
Sravana Nakshatra and then only returning (i.e. starting Uttarayana). This indicates that the 
period of Vriddha Garga could be any time after the period of Sage Garga who lived around 
BC.1100. 


Rishiputra 

Rishiputra is the son of Garga Rishi. He too wrote texts on all three branches of astrology, such 
as Siddhanta, Hora and Samhita. He was well versed in Sanskrit and Prakrit. 

From Prakrit only Sanskrit originated. Prakrit was the common man’s use of Sanskrit, but later it 
became a separate language, and due to continuous use it deviated very much from the 
organized, systematic, and clearly grammatical use of Sanskrit. This deviation from Sanskrit was 
evident even from the period of Rishiputra. Almost all the teachings of Jain gurus are in the 
common man’s language, i.e. Prakrit. Rishiputra is also no exception to this, even though he 
wrote some book in Sanskrit as well. Rishiputra was never known as Garga which might mean 


that he deviated from the original stream of astrological knowledge taught by Garga Rishi or it 


Axshara Prasna 15 


could also be that he never held the position of head guru of Garga kula. Mihira in Brihat 
Samhita quotes extensively from the Samhita by Rishiputra. A text called “Madana Ratna’ 
mentions ‘Rishiputra Samhita’, which proves the existence of Rishiputra Samhita. Rishiputra 
Samhita is a text written in Sanskrit. Rishiputra is thought to be the originator of the study of 
Omens (Nimitta). A text on Nimitta Sastra (Ancient advice on Omens) in his name is also 
available. Brihat Samhita quotes Rishiputra extensively. The ancient and famous Jain siddhantic 
texts on astrology Surya Prajchapti and Chandra Prajchapti are also thought to be the works of 
this great astrologer. These texts are in Prakrit. 

Prakrit language is considered divine by the followers of Jain religion, since most of the 
teachings of Mahavira and other gurus of this religion is in Prakrit. There is another trend that 
should be kept in mind while studying astrology texts in Prakrit language. Prakrit was the 
revered language of Jain religion and the common man's language at that time. So the astrologers 
of Jain school of astrology almost invariably resorted to Prakrit while writing texts. But the side 
effect of this is that, almost all the texts written in Prakrit was later considered to be part of Jain 
school of astrology, which is a wrong interpretation. I too cannot escape from this pitfall, while 
trying to locate the teachers and texts of Jain school of astrology. Please keep it in mind. 
Probably that is why I too note only identify ‘Rishiputra’ as a Jain sage, but also Garga as a Jain 
sage many times. But the truth remains that we cannot be certain whether Garga was a Jain or 


not, based on the current evidence. 


Axshara Prasna 16 


About Akshara Prasna 


In Prasna (Horary) there is a system called Akshara Prasna, where the whole prediction is given 
based upon the first letter, first word, and first sentence spelt by native alone. This is a very 
useful and effective system, using which numerous questions by various people can be answered 
distinctly and accurately. Prasnavidya (Garga Manorama) is about a subset of this system - Le. 
about predicting based on First letter of the query alone. 

Let me introduce you to the context of this book. In Prasna there is a system called 'Akshara 
Prasna' where 1) First letter 2) First word 3) The first sentence told by the querent would be used 
to calculate/check several things and answer him accordingly. This technique is very effective in 
answering multiple questions from multiple people at the same time when neither the planetary 
position nor the Lagna change. Garga Manorama alias Prasnavidya is a text about a subset of 
‘Akshara Prasna' - i.e. about the first letter alone. Actually 'Akshara Prasna' itself is only a subset 
of 'Ashtamangala Prasna' only. So the order is - Ashtamangala Prasna ==> Akshara Prasna ==> 
Ekakshara Prasna which is what Garga Manorama is about. So as to complete the subject dealt 
within this text, and to give a clear picture, we have added this detailed write-up to this text. This 
will deal with "Akshara Prasna" is general and shed light on answering the query based on "First 
word" and "First sentence" uttered by the querent as well. 

Since an understanding about letter classification in Sanskrit Devanagari script is essential for 


the correct understanding and use of this text, the same is ave below - 


pa of ar 
[fre fe be fe 


[rll eln am 


Axshara Prasna 17 


el i 


alll 
rare 
Cet Fel 


Many do not consider letters like @ (La) and &T (KSha) as part of the Sanskrit alphabet list even 


though the same is true for many indic languages. For example @ (La) is found only in some 


indic language like Malayalam and &T (KSha) finds its place in the alphabet list only in 


langauages like Hindi which too uses Devanagari script. 


1. First Letter 
Vowel-Consonant 
sed: Tatee Hredea aifsteor afaen Ferre: | 
ERT SHAS ATIA Sit AA T ATT AT I 
(Prasna Sangraha, Prasnamarga, Rf.PM) 
[Script (in Sanskrit language) is classified into two - first category is the vowels (Fax) beginning 


from 31 (a) and second is the consonants (CU>ole{) beginning from # (ka). Understand that 


among the alphabets (felf), also called the Matrikas, vowels represent the life force while the 


consonants represent the body. ] 


Axshara Prasna 18 
WAT ES CREA Tol AS sare 37 | 
arsed cefayar gered Valea Il 


(Prasna Sangraha, Prasnamarga, Rf. PM) 
[If the Prasnavakya (question sentence) begins with Vowel it indicates, auspicious result 
(ongevity etc.) for life (longevity), and inauspicious result for body. On the other hand if the 
Prasnavakya begins with consonants then it is the opposite (i.e. auspicious result for body and 
inauspicious result for longevity). ] 


In Devaprasna - 


WAMFaA FRET Vel Mies eAMs Gap | 
Faecay has Aeon A ATCA Il 


(Devaprasna, Rf. DP) 
[If the first sentence uttered in Prasna (Prasnavakya) begins with a vowel then it indicates 
increased presence of the deity (Sanniddhya) and auspicious results. If it (the Prasnavakya) 
begins with a consonant then (inauspicious results such as) loss of wealth, expense more than 


income etc. can be predicted.] 


The vowels are classified into two as - short (@€@) and long (@I). This gives an indication 


regarding the remedies that should be performed in the temple. The following quote speaks about 


the same. 
acleraresant aret areenteat ey aera: | 
Bed Hotty: AYrA FeaqhHAvT || 

(Devaprasna, Rf. DP) 
[If the first alphabet uttered by the querent is Long then the remedy should be done through 
conducting ‘song’ rituals (praising the name of the god, such as the song ritual conducted for 
snake etc.). If it (the first alphabet uttered by the querent) is Short then the remedy should be 
done through conducting ‘Annadana’ (donation of food) and Pujas (worships). If the first letter is 
a joint letter (such as kka, ppa, nJa, tta etc.) then the remedy should done by conducting ‘dance’ 


rituals (praising the blessings of god, such as the dance ritual conducted by the shamans etc.)] 


Axshara Prasna 19 


Panchabhuta (Five states of Matter) 
The following section correlates the five states of matter (such as Solid-Liquid-Gas-Plasma- 


Vacuum) with the alphabets. 
aalvaqenI dh Wd deoe aga T A | 
aeaal J aqaaEenadareased Fear Il 
gel aredoraat TARA: Weed Ter | 
SSCA: FALL ARES CAT: Il 

(Prasna Sangraha, Prasnamarga, Rf. PM) 
[The consonants have groups of five consonants each. These five groups are Vayu (Air), Agni, 
(Fire), Indra (Solid), Jala (Water, Liquid) and Napumsaka (Eunuch/Sky/Vacuum). If the question 
begins with a eunuch vowel the results are extremely bad, if with Air or Fire they are mildly bad, 
when the question starts with Indra (Earth) letter the results are neutral, and when with Water 
consonant the results are favorable. The long and short Vowels are of Jala (Water) and Indra 
(Earth) tatvas.] 
There are two important points to know about the above listing. 
1. Panchabhuta signifies the five states of matter such as - Solid, Liquid, Gas, Plasma, Vacuum. 
2. Panchabhutas are also denoted by the names of their deity (or their synonyms). Indra deva is 


the deity for Earth (Solid), Varuna deva is the deity for Water (Liquid), Agni deva is the deity for 
Fire (Plasma), Vayu deva is the deity for Air (Gas), Napumsaka is the deity for Akasa (Vacuum). 


Sl. | State of | Indian Deity Other terms used Planet 
Matter term 
Solid Indra deva Earth, Prithvi Mercury 


Liquid Varuna deva Water Venus 


Air Vayu deva Atmosphere, Wind Saturn 


Plasma Agni deva Fire, Vahni Mars 


Vacuum Napumsaka Enuch, Sky Jupiter 


deva 


Axshara Prasna 20 


roe re fee fm 
[ref lm fm 
fe fm Fem 
| 
fee fm oml fm 
peor fm rm rm Pm 


| 


Short 3t(a) | S(e) | Fu) | o Jala | Good 
(Ri) (L“i) 


3it Indra | Bad 


& 


(RD | a“) (“e) | (au) 


Axshara Prasna 21 


HPAES Ae TOTS | 
oAaaIh IT Feet at MSTA | 

(Prasnamarga, Rf. PM) 
[The first alphabet (of Prasnavakya) being in Akash-Vayu-Vahni (Vacuum-Air-Plasma) bhutas 
or (in other words) the alphabets ruled by napumsakadeva (sky god)-vayudeva (wind god)- 


agnideva (fire god) are not good.] 
This means that the alphabets ruled by rest of the bhutas/lords are good. This is tabulated below. 


Varuna deva | Napumsaka deva 


(Wind god) | (Fire god) | (Earth god) | (Water god) | (Eunuch god) 


Bhuta here means state or substance. Deva here means deity or better as ruling deity. For every 
Bhuta there are also Grahas, which in this context can be translated as planets or better as ruling 
planets. Bhuta and Tatva are words used interchangeably, where Tatva means principle. Phala 


means result. There are all terms that anyone learing indian astrology will hear many times. 


Pancha-varna rulers (Rulers of 5 groups of letters) 
The following section is about the rulers ascribed to the five alphabets of each Varna and the 


result that should be told based on the same. 
GRA GREAT ASX MSTA: | 
OSTA Tate TIACN: Wel fectar: I 
apesitatear: ates eet aur fF Aaa: | 

ITT MATHS GMAT MAA: Il 


(Devaprasna, Rf. DP) 


Axshara Prasna 22. 


[The 5 letters (Pancha-varnas in each Varga of Sanskrit alphabet list) are called Khara-Atikhara- 


Mridu-Ghosha-Anunasika respectively. Their deities are Jupiter-Mars-Venus-Mercury-Saturn 


respectively. The deity for vowels is Sun and of the 10 consonants from J (ya) onwards is 


Khara etc 

(Khara) (Atikhara) (Mridu) (Khosha) (Anunasika) 
Ruling Jupiter Mars Venus Mercury Saturn 
Planet 


eee ee 


Hq jar ls |¢s a | | ie 31 | 3 pr iat: | Sun 
(A) | (i) (U) _ = (Li) (L*D | ©) | Me) | ©) | @) |am) (ab) 

GT tl jot |T FAUT a oe @ |a Moo 

(ya | (ra | (la | (va | (sh | (Sh | (sa) | (ha) (La | (Ksh ™ 

) |) J) J) Jad fa) ) fa) 


What is the use of ascribing rulers to Pancha-varna? The text Devaprasna answers this question. 


In Devaprasna - 


Grae aaNet STA fee CAAA | 
VST PRAT TTT AA drara cA Il 


(Devaprasna, Rf. DP) 


Axshara Prasna 23 


[Based on the first letter uttered by the querent, the astrologer can determine the deity and say 
that particular deity exists in that temple. If benefics aspects that planet then tell that the deity is 
in good condition, otherwise (if malefics aspects that planets then) tell that the deity is not in 
good condition.] 

Please note that the Pancha-varna rulership and result told above, and the Akshara Lagna 


tulership and result told below are different and not the same. 


Prasna Akshara Lagna 
WSCA A et sot HEA AST | 
Tea MMB AS ACMA (31) 1 HEAT I 
(Prasnamarga, Rf. PM) 
[From the first alphabet of Prasnavakya (sentence asked by the querent) the astrologer should 


find out the Lagna, and based on the same predict the good and bad results. Now let me speak 


about the method to do the same.] 
HHTCATA Sa CVapasarateastra gre | 
UrGed T fetiese Wal TAA FTA || 

ACH ACA CAIe AYEA USMS ACL TST: | 
aaeaeereaaacy: werAreaay ry Il 

WR oer Tad hease ara Harsha | 

Paar asraea ate Uae TAA Il 
ATH Aree TAAL FOOTAAS ITs AGA | 
PAPUA MATA CAeea TEAL Il 


(Aryasaptami, Prasnamarga, Rf. PM) 
[Vargas such as 31-h-d-¢-d-4-2 (A-ka-Ta-ta-pa-ya), are ruled by planets Su-Ma-Ve-Me-Ju-Sa- 


Mo respectively. Using this ruling planet, identified based on first alphabet spelt by the querent, 


Akshara-Lagna can be determined. Based on this Lagna predict all the results for the querent. If 


Axshara Prasna 24 


the alphabets are 1-3-5 then take the odd sign ascribed to that planet as the Lagna, and if it is 2-4 
then take the even sign ascribed to that planet as Lagna. For Ma-Me-Ju-Ve-Sa this rule applies, 
but not to Su-Mo, since they have only one sign. Based on such ‘Akshara-Lagna’ arrived at, all 
auspicious and inauspicious results can be told at the time of Prasna. This method is beneficial 
especially when the exact time (at the time of prasna) is not known (due to the absence of watch 
etc.), and also when there happens multiple questions at the same time] 

This is one of the very important and fundamental principle used in Akshara prasna. In 


Aksharakosa, Yavaneswara is also basing himself on similar rules. 


pe pe fm 
i a ia nl ll 
ee 


i hale al cal al 
ree 
pores fs 


Axshara Prasna 25 


The following sloka from Brihat Samhita also expresses the same meaning. 


PICA A: Hoya Aaa HHA: TEAST: | 
FONSeh UTS FT MLA Ca: HAHN HAM: FAT: FT: Il 

(Brihat Samhita) 
[The groups such as ka-cha-Ta-pa-ya are ruled by Ma-Ve-Me-Ju-Sa respectively. The a-varga (31 


etc) is ruled by Sun and ya-varga by Moon] 


The following sloka too speaks the same - 
wat Rigor a at deg heat 
aast sengquatt cast qrHpe ae | 
aaef ereqettett a cat epatetsret | 
ast HST Atel Waray Tec ll 

(Kerala Prasna Sangraha) 
[a-varga (31437) indicates Leo lagna, ka-varga (Haat) indicates Aries or Scorpio, ca-varga (aaeT) 
indicates Taurus or Libra, Ta-varga (fast) indicates Gemini or Virgo, ta-varga (aaat) indicates 
Sagittarius or Pisces, pa-varga (Waar) indicates Capricorn or Aquarius, and ya-varga (ast) 


indicates Cancer. These are the Lagnas that should be told based on Prasnaakshara (first alphabet 
of first sentence uttered by the querent)] 


The Alphabet-Lagna correlation is well tabulated below - 


Si] Atphabet Lagna 


[ee 3 (a), 37 (A), 3, FD, 3 (W), F (VU), % (Ri), HKD, & (Li), TO), je 


Axshara Prasna 26 


paar 
| 
3 | W (kha), F (gha) Scorpio 

pee 


i iad ce 
1 hn Lac 


Once ‘Akshara Lagna’ is found in this way for the querent, the auspicious and inauspicious 


results can be given based on the current planetary position and considering all the possible 
combinations told in astrology classics. The advantage of this method is that, even when the time 
is not known, and even when the multiple questions are asked by the same or different 
individuals at the same time, this method can be effectively used. If one knows this method to 
derive the Akshara Lagna and standard astrological principles, he don’t need any other method 


or tool to predict correctly for any number or native, in any kind of scenario. 


Axshara Prasna 27 


Judging the name of the native 
A method to judge the number of letters in the name of the querent, based on the Movable-Fixed- 


Mixed variation of Akshara Arudha, is given in Brihat Samhita. 
Coma UX Tereehled AAT TAA FEAT | 
ATATIAA ao ataaicdy FA Hae TST Tas: Il 

(Brihat Samhita, Rf. BS) 
[If Akshara Lagna is Movable navamsa then the name of the native will have 2 letters; if in Fixed 
navamsa then the name of the native will have 4 letters; if in Mixed navamsa then the name of 


the native will have 3 or 5 letters, further (if the Prasna Lagna is in Mixed Navamsa) he may 


have two names. ] 
% fo Ro} pe) . fo) | 
Gears gale waeitahiecs afasaig ay rete AGE I 


(Brihat Samhita, Rf. BS) 
[The name of the native could be the synonym of the following deities based on Prasna Lagna - 
Agni (sign of Sun), Varuna (sign of Moon), Subrahmanya (signs of Mars), Vishnu (signs of 
Mercury), Indra (signs of Jupiter), Sachi (signs of Venus), Brahma (signs of Saturn) respectively] 
This method is not much effective or efficient in judging the name correctly, even though it can 


be useful at times. 


2. First Word 
Astrological analysis of the first word spelt by the native is also highly useful in answering 


queries. 


Alphabet Group (Akshara Gana) and Result 

Gana means Group. Gana (group) classification is always done of groups of three alphabets each, 
and is based on short-long classification of alphabets. The short (Laghu)-long (Guru) 
classification is based on time taken to pronounce a letter. The assumption is that a short 
alphabet can be pronounced in a Matra (one second), while the long alphabets will take 2 Matras 


(two seconds). 


Axshara Prasna 28 


Short alphabets = 3 (a), 5 (1), 3 (u), ® (ka), @ (kha), W(ga), UT (gha) etc. 


Long alphabets = 31 (A), $ (E), 5 (U), 3it (au), T (kA), GT (khA), 4 (gA), UT (ghA) ete. 


For prosody and grammar purpose the alphabets in words treated as groups of three, which are 
known by the name ‘Gana’ (group). Such groups are eight in number with names - ‘ya’, ‘ra’, 
‘ta’, ‘bha’, ‘ja’, ‘sa’, ‘ma’, ‘na’ (ya-ra-ta-bha-ja-sa-ma-na). Each of these alphabets denotes a 
Gana (group). For example ‘ya’ means ‘ya-gana’ and the condition for a group of three letters to 
be treated as ‘ya-gana’ is that the middle letter among those three should be a long letter. 

The astrologer should consider the first 3 alphabets in the first word of the querent and based on 
the ‘Gana’ (group) to which those three alphabets belong, should predict a result as suggested 
below. While listing the Gana and alphabets I would be using ‘S’ to denote short alphabet and 
‘L’ to denote long alphabet. 


ETE AT HAA: HATA 
SAT SHASTA THAT EAT AA ec TA: Il 
AGT SATA TOT LAA TEA (3T)- 
Aca: AAAS ot Aes Il 


(Prasna Anushtana Paddhati, Prasnamarga, Rf. PM) 
[Long letter in the middle, end, beginning and everywhere are good. That is, the Ganas ja-sa- 
bha-ma are auspicious and is ruled by Sun, Wind, Moon and Earth respectively. The results to be 
told for these Ganas in sequence are - increase of disease, foreign journey, great fame, wellbeing. 
Like that if Short letter is in middle, end, beginning and everywhere then their rulers are Fire- 
Sky-Water-Heaven respectively, and the results in sequence are - death, nothing, prosperity, 


noe 


UaTUT (sa-gana) HecUTS (S-S-L) Wind (Air) | foreign journey 


Axshara Prasna 29 


sia ily oe ia 


a | pene eine iia 


rasan ad araean Reaetra 
faraAAN We Tele ateet faenetat I 


(Prasnamarga, Rf. PM) 
[If it is a joint alphabet, or if there is an Anuswara (half letter) or Visarga (half stopping) along 
with the letter then know that letter as a long letter (even if it is short otherwise)] 


In Devaprasna - 
AANA TACIT A AAA Say | 
sftorrat witaed Pdqagits RAs ear 


(Devaprasna, Rf. DP) 
[If ‘Sarvaguru’ (L-L-L) then lots of income and excellent Utsava (festival) can be predicted. If 
‘Akhilalaghu’ (S-S-S) then Sannidhya (excellent presence of the deity) and Nivedyapushti (lots 
of Nivedya food for the deity) can be predicted.] 


CAMARA AI ATE AeA TALS | 

Ted cA rt eAGS HITS Tele SHAS AT I 
Cfeaemre sare safasiagta ALAA Mega | 
Sure FT YfearaiAg sfIar Weg IATA I 


Axshara Prasna 30 
ARIA AER aoe frat SATA ATS | 
TecUeas aotatecaHreaeenoietaeaerted TAT Il 
Ea Vase accra erat Aaeags gat | 
aaeMiey yeahs eensagre Pre Il 

(Devaprasna, Rf. DP) 

[In Devaprasna, if all letters (of the first Gana) are Guru then there would be Sanniddhya 
(presence of deity), wealth and prosperity. If only the first letter (of the first Gana) is Guru then 
there would be growth of respective Sanniddhyas (deities) through performing Nitya-karmas 
(daily activities). If middle letter (of the first Gana) is Guru then there would be destruction of 
Sanniddhya etc. and destruction of wealth and prosperity. If the last letter (of the first Gana) is 
Guru then the deity would be fall from its place, purity (of the temple) is destroyed and the 
owners of the temple become ill. If only the middle letter (of the first Gana) is Laghu then it 
always brings about the death of the owners of the temple. If the last letter (of the first Gana) is 
Laghu then there is destruction of all wealth, lands and Chaitanya (radiance of the deity). If the 
first letter (of the first Gana) is Laghu then there would always be a lot of gains and increase of 


Chaitanya. If all three letters (of the first Gana) are Laghu then good health of the owners of the 
temple and growth to that kingdom/village should be predicted. ] 


ieee ee 


Akhilaguru (L- | qaqoy there would be sannidhya (presence of deity), wealth and 


L-L) prosperity 
(ma-gana) 


Adiguru (L-S-S) | gyapoy there would be growth of respective sannidhyas through 


performing nitya karmas 


Madhyaguru (S- ‘,. | there would be destruction of sannidhya etc and destruction 


L-S) of wealth and prosperity 


Axshara Prasna 31 


Antyaguru (S-S- | gayot (sa- the deity would be evicted from its place, purity (of the 


L) temple) is destroyed and the owners of the temple become 


ill 


Madhyalaghu TUT (ra- it always brings about the death of the owners of the temple 
(L-S-L) 
gana) 


gana) 


Antyalaghu (L- | qaqot (ta- there is destruction of all wealth, lands and Chaitanya 
L-S) (radiance of the deity) 

gana) 
Adilaghu (S-L- | gapot (ya- there would be a lot of gains always and _ increase 
L) Chaitanya 

gana) 


Akhilalaghu (L- | sapo7 (na- good health to the owners of the temple and growth to that 
L-L) kingdom/village should be predicted. 
gana) 


3. First Sentence 
MATS delet aT Poet Yat at aaatqse AT aA Aare | 
Wea A AAiecda aN cHKS aaaed Teer T TTI 


(Prasna Anushtana Paddhati, Prasnamarga, Rf. PM) 


[If what the native speaks is good to hear, auspicious, meaningful, without errors then (it can be 
said that) he will gain whatever he aspires for; on the other hand if his words not good to listen 
to, not meaningful, with errors and inauspicious the results will be bad. If the last word ends in 


Visarga then too the results will be bad.] 


Axshara Prasna 32 


Akshara Sankhya (Alphabet count) and Result 
arcade etter | AHARITEAAR NTT: eI 

(Prasna Sindhu) 
[Count the total number of alphabets present in the first sentence spelt by the querent. (This 
number is known as Akharasankhya) Multiply this number with three and then divide by two. If 


the remainder is 1 then auspicious results and if 2 then inauspicious results can be predicted.] 


In Devaprasna 
TARA SAT AA Trade eTed PASE: | 
SAHA: AIHA Feohlaa TAT Il 


(Devaprasna, Rf. DP) 
[Multiply the Aksharasankhya (number of alphabets) with five and divide by eight. The 
remainder should be treated as eight ‘Dik palas’ (protectors of directions) starting with Indra. ] 
The dik-palas (protectors of directions) are - |.Indra, 2. Vahni, 3.Yama, 4.Nirirti, 5.Varuna, 
6. Vayu, 7.Kubera, 8.Siva. 
Since it is told in the above sloka that one should multiply the ‘Akshara-Sankhya’; some 
astrologers take the numeric values of each alphabet based on Katapayadi number notation 
system and add them to find the Akshara-Sankhya, and then do the remaining calculation with 
this number, The remedies that should be conducted, based on the dikpalas calculated using this 


method is given below - 


SANT BAH Tyo Taio. 
Pasa aaAv aes feat ATEUS SlereT Il 
SAME sates Sey ALAM Aahlectet: 
SAMALALAAST PLOT HATS II 


(Devaprasna) 
[The remedies to be conducted are - 1.Worship of the deity (for Indra), 2. Homa (for Agni), 3.Pitr 
puja (for Yama), 4.Removing the Brahma-rakshas (for Nirirti), 5.Abhisheka with Khee, oil etc. 
(for Varuna), 6.Providing garlands (for Vayu), 7.Deva-brahmana-pujanam (for Kubera), 8.Veda- 


archana (for Siva) respectively. ] 


Axshara Prasna 33 


Sl. Deity Remedy 

1 Indra (Lord of demi gods) Worship of the deity 

2 Agni (God of fire) Homa 

3 Yama (God of Hell) Worship of dead forefathers 

4 Nirirti (A cruel god of hell) Removing the Brahma-rakshas (Brahma rakshas 


is the spirit of Brahmins who died doing bad 
karma) 
Abhisheka (worship) with Khee, oil etc. 
Providing garlands 


7 Kubera (Lord of wealth) Worshiping of Brahmins and demi-gods 
8 Siva (Supreme God) Worship using Vedic chants. 


Instead of ‘Akshara-Sankhya’, Prasnavidya calls similar number arrived at based on the first 
alphabet spelt by the querent alone, using bit different calculation as ‘Akshara-pinda’ and 
provides elaborate methods to predict every result based on the same. 

I hope this write-up is enough to provide basic understanding about the prediction system based 
on the first sentence-word-letter used by the querent alone, and also to give a clue on how to 
connect it with the current planetary position through the use of ‘Akshara-Lagna’. Apart from the 
method to find ‘Akshara-lagna’ given in this write-up, Prasnavidya provides one more method to 
find ‘Akshara-lagna’. Since the methods differ, it is possible that the ‘Akshara-lagna arrived at 
by both would be different; follow the one which suits you better. 

- 000 - 


Axshara Prasna 34 


Prasnavidya 


qaanezrey: [Chapter -1] 


UIs: (Foundation chapter) 


sfterorgeret ota: Il 
[Salutations to Ganesha] 
WF ae aered Alaa feat A | 
aratt afer Stet vestigate ere Il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Now, after bowing down to the one who is happiness-personified, the one and only abode of 


happiness, Garga created Prasna-Vidya for the delight of intellectual men.] 
TST Yara lSavSref cA Ss TAT | 
Weal PACACA ATHY THoowey: | 2 Il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[With a pleasant mind the querent should sit facing east or north and ask the questions in front of 


an astrologer who should himself be in a pleasant state of mind. ] 


Akshara Pinda and its Result 
aataviwannt f Wear aise fre: | 
Psd eaedes TTS HET Ul 

(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[The numerical value of (first) alphabet in their respective Varna (sequence number) and Varga 
(groups), along with the (numerical value of the) vowels attached with it Gf any), should be 


multiplied with each other. The result is called Pinda. It has to be divided (by appropriate 


numbers) and results should be inferred from that.] 


Axshara Prasna 35 


This quote is understood and interpreted by many in many ways, there is no agreement between 
any two commentators about how they understood and interpret this sloka! Since everything told 
in this text is based on ‘Pinda’, correctly understanding the method told for calculating Pinda is 
very important. It is not clear in the above sloka whether Garga is asking us to consider the first 
letter, first word or the first sentence which the querent uttered. To keep things simple, let us 


assume that the Pinda should be calculated based on the first letter uttered eT the querent. 


Vowels 3T 31 s RM(R) | RR 
Swara 
(a) (A) (ce) | ) 
e |aa) |v [et at | at 31: (aH) 
(Li) (e) | Me) (au) | (am) 


4 (gha) 


Palatal 


Taalavya 


Cerebral & (Dha) 
Murdhanya 


i T (pa) | ® (pha) 
Oshthya 
‘ : i : ioe 


FT (jha) 


Axshara Prasna 36 


Fricative raat | (sha) | T(Sha) | Asa) | F (ha) 
Ushma 


saat (a-varga) has 15 letters. Hae (ka-varga), aay (ca-varga), zaat (Ta-varga), aay, Fast 


have 5 letters each. The last two Vargas Yast and Waet have only 4 letters each. (Some 
commentaries erroneously group J-<-a-d-2 together and call the next Varga as Val and 
include even @ and &T into this list. But such an approach is not in tune with the logical structure 


of the Sanskrit alphabet. There isn’t any Ya as is mentioned in some texts. Instead 21441 is the 


right Varga.) 
Every ‘Akshara’ (alphabet) in the above list of Sanskrit alphabet consists of two parts (just like 


any syllable in any language), one consonant part and a vowel part. For example & (ka) is @ + 37 


(k + a), of (ja) is ol + HG + a). Or in other words almost every syllable is Saswara (having a 
vowel part). Further note that the syllables can have other Saswara (having a vowel part) 
variations such as fe (ki), AY (KE) & (ku), ® (kU), FH (kR“i), # (ke), % (k%e) ete as well for 
(ka) and similarly for other syllables. In all such cases the Saswara alphabet would be considered 


and the value for & (ka) would be ascribed to them all. Following this basic understanding, the 


method for calculating Saswara Pinda for the first alphabet (syllable) is given below. The steps 
to be followed while finding ‘Pinda’ of the first alphabet uttered by the querent is as follows - 

1) Find Varga Pramana of Saswara Varna: The count of Varga of the letter is mentioned by the 
querent. 

2) Find Varna Pramana of Saswara Varna: The count of letter (within the Varga) mentioned by 
the querent. 

3) These two numbers should be multiplied together, which would be ‘Varga-varna pramanam 
saswaram taditham mitha’ (numerical value of the alphabets having a vowels part multiplied 


with each other). 


Axshara Prasna 37 


4) If the first alphabet is a conjoint one, and if there is no vowel associated with the first alphabet 


then, the first Saswara alphabet (alphabet having the vowel part) will be used to calculate the 


‘Pinda’. For example if the first syllable is cd, cu, Fef etc. then only the first corresponding 
Saswara alphabet such as d, U, d, oT is considered for calculating Pinda. 


5) lf the first alphabet is a vowel (Swara) such as H (a), $ (i), 3(u) etc. then even though a 


consonant is absent in this case, the Pinda can be calculated based on this vowel (Swara) itself. 
6) This number is termed ‘Pinda’ or ‘Aksharapinda’ meaning ‘value of alphabet’, can be used for 


further calculations. This number is divided by appropriate number to get the remainder. 


Extension of the Basic Rule 


The Pinda number is used to derive the major category of the result like Dhatu-Mula-Jiva. To 
find the subcategory, the quotient should be added to the original Pinda number (which we will 
call the ‘Resultant Pinda’) and the ‘Resultant Pinda’ is to be divided by the subcategory number. 


The remainder of this division should be used to calculate subcategory and the quotient should 


be added to the ‘Resultant Pinda’ to get the next ‘Resultant Pinda’, that should be used for 
further calculations (such as finding subsubcategory). This process can be continued indefinitely, 
using proper sub, subsub, subsubsub categories etc. 

For example if PO is the initial Pinda number then: 

Category (Dhatu-Mula-Jiva) = Remainder of [P0/3] 

where 3 is the category number, and R the remainder of the above division. category, 
subcategory, subsubcategory etc are always determined based on the remainder R of the division. 
Now the quotient QO = Quotient of [P0/3] 

Resultant Pinda (P1) =P0+Q 

Again: 

Subcategory = Remainder of [P1/Subcategory number] 

Q1 = Quotient of [P1/Subcategory number] 

Resultant Pinda (P2) = Pl +Q 

Again: 

Subsubcategory = Remainder of [P2/Subsubcategory number] 


Axshara Prasna 38 


Q2 = Quotient of [P2/Subcategory number] 

Resultant Pinda (P3) = P2 +Q 

And continue like this to any level of subsubsub etc. categories with proper category numbers 
and classifications. Except for a few slokas towards the end of chapter-5, the entire Prasnavidya 


by sage Garga is nothing but an application of this basic rule. This exact secret method followed 


by Prasnavidya is indicated in the 3rd sloka of the chapter on living things (chapter 3). Without 


correctly understanding this method, is essential to the effective use of this text Prasnavidya for 


Akshara-prasna. 


Question related to Success-Failure etc. 


FAqeARA HAAS A Ase TAT HAT Il 
fareneravefieterd sve: afterall 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[In questions related to success or failure, the astrologer should divide the ‘Aksharapinda’ with 
two. Upon dividing by two, the remainder of | indicates success and the remainder of 2 indicates 
failure. In the same way (for questions related to gains and losses one should divide by two and 
the remainder would indicate) Gain and Loss (respectively). For questions related to directions, 
one has to divide by eight and the direction should be determined based on the remainder. ] 
Division by 2: A remainder of one indicates success, and two indicates failure. One indicates 
gain and two indicates loss. One indicates movement and the number two indicates stability. In 
short, one indicates a positive result and two indicates a negative result. For queries such as ‘Will 
I be able to travel?’, the remainder of one indicates that the journey would be possible and two 
indicates that it won’t be possible. For queries such as ‘will my relatives in foreign land come 
back to the native place?’ - the remainder of one indicates that they will come back, and two 
indicates that they will not. When the question is, “Is the pregnancy there or not?” - divide by 
two. One indicates pregnancy and two indicates no pregnancy. Similarly for other similar 
questions too. 
Division by 8: For questions related to the knowledge of direction, divide the Pinda by 8. The 


directions starting from east are indicated by the remainder. 


Axshara Prasna 39 


General rule: Similarly in question related to anything, divide the Akshara-Pinda with the 
corresponding number and use the remainder to predict the possibility. Each number in the 


remainder is sequentially associated with one possible outcome. 


oat PHAR: HTL AT ALAN TT TST: | 
otpaets ht t cercHreraet ats TIS Il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[In questions related to (gender of the child in) pregnancy, divide by three and the remainders 
would indicate male-female-eunuch respectively. The same rule (of dividing by three) is 
applicable in case of knowing the worlds (to which the native will go after death such as heaven- 
hell-earth), and well as to know the time (such as past-future-present). ] 
When the question “What shall be the gender of the child about to be born?” is asked, divide by 
three. A reminder of one indicates male, two indicates female and three indicates a eunuch. For 
questions related to the Loka (world) to which the dead person has gone, divide the Pinda by 
three. The remainders indicate heaven-hell-earth respectively. One indicates heaven, two 
indicates hell and three indicates earth. For questions related to time, divide the Pinda by three 


and calculate the remainder. One indicates past, two indicates future and three indicates present. 
Sher Weetaeqara ATMLHTS: TA: Il 


[Thus ends the first chapter titled Foundation Chapter of Prasnavidya] 


Axshara Prasna 40 


afactrareare: [Chapter -2] 


Urarnis: (Chapter on non-living things) 


A useful technique 
This chapter gives a useful technique. Though the technique is not universally applicable, but it 


can prove to be helpful in many cases. 
erat cen ste ote aor a ee I 
PABA Asafa a WeaTH NaS: UU 
(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 


[The expert in Prasna (the astrologers) should know it as Dhatu-Mula-Jiva, or Jiva-Mula-Dhatu 


etc. based (three part) division of day.] 


What is advised in the above sloka is tabulated below - 
rs ae 
Purvahna (6 AM to 10 AM) 


Madyahna (10 AM to 2 PM) 
Aparahna (2 PM to 6 PM) 


Even though not said explicitly in the above sloka, the same is applicable in the night too. Ahna 


means day, and Ratri means night. Night can be divided into three such as - Purvaratri- 


Madhyaratri-A pararatri. 
oe 
Purvaratri (6 PM to 10 PM) 


Madhyratri (10 PM to 2 AM) 
Apararatri (2 AM to 6 AM) 


Axshara Prasna 41 


Once it is identified that the item is Dhatu, Mula or Jiva, the next step is to identify the 
subcategory to which it belongs. The subcategory of Dhatus are listed below. 

The commentary present in the Prasnavidya Manuscript interprets the sloka in a different way. It 
says that - “Past = /, Future = 2, Present = 3. Multiply Pinda with these 3 numbers depending 
on the question. Then divide by 3 and check the remainder. If the question is on disappearance of 
an item then the remainders indicate Dhatu-Mula-Jiva in sequence. If it is a question on theft 


then the remainders indicate Jiva-Mula-Dhatu in sequence.” 


Dhatu 

Method 1 - Subcategorization as Dhamya-Adhamya 
UT Perea Ber EST SATA STAT MATS EL | 

Weer TET PETA rarer: 112 Il 


(Prasnavidya, R£PV) 
[Once it is confirmed that the question is about Dhatu then divide the Pinda by two. If the 
remainder is one then it is about a Dhamya Dhatu and if the remainder is two then it is about an 
Adhamya Dhatu.] 
Dhamya and Adhamya Dhatus are defined in the next sloka: 


aivatt Seneca a: Eavrraerear are: | 
TAT Gea SHracenea: Wess FA: 3 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[The Dhatus (non-living items such as metals) which are to be purified in fire (before using) are 
called Dhamya Dhatus. Other (non-living) items such as diamonds (stones, pearls) etc. (which 


don’t need to be purified in fire before use) are called Adhamya Dhatus by the learned men.] 


Sub-sub-categories of Dhamya 
The following sloka applies if only the ‘Dhatu’ (Non-living thing) under consideration is a metal. 


In this sloka metals are classified into ten categories. 


Axshara Prasna 42 


TFTA lel TARA (s)aT PIOSET aerelTa: | 
HAA Hla are Tah ASTIN: 4 I 
alavrtes gar aat ae HEAT | 
Sasaeat Me Fe ATI TAT! 115M 

(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[(Once it is identified that the item is Dhamya) then the subcategory of the item can be identified 
by dividing the ‘Pinda’ by ten. The (ten) subcategories of Dhatus are - |.Gold, 2.Silver 3.Copper 


4.Tarakam (shining metal present in meteorite) 5.Kamsya (Bronze), 6.Pittala (Brass), 7.Seesaja 


(Lead), [Jasata (?)], 8.Loham (Iron), 9. Vangam (Tin) 10.Talabhrakam (Mica) respectively. ] 


Sub categories of Adhamya 


UaAA VASA SETA elector 
reread aerfer: Pros strat Sar faaaar Gl 


Alea STTAT ST SLATS Aer: FCAT | 
Atha TART Tarot AN eT HAT Il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Once it is confirmed that the question is about Adhamya Dhatus, divide the Pinda with ten and 
identify the Adhamya Dhatu as - 1.Mud 2.Lamp-black 3.Stone 4.Haritalam (sulphuret of 
Arsenic) 5.Manahsila (Red Arsenic) 6. Marakata (Emerald), 7.Padmaraga (Ruby), 8.Pravalam 
(Coral), 9.Tara (Pearl) 10.Ratnakam (Diamond) respectively based on the remainder. | 
Probably the following listing can be made use of, once it is identified that the question is about 
precious stone. The mutual relation between the 9 precious stones and the planets is tabulated 


below. 


Axshara Prasna 43 


a 
a 
Pee 


Method 2 - Sub categorizing as Ornament-Money-Vessels 
STOUT SUPT aAeTAT Fafa TaT ars ote Ul 
MOTs T TUT Urs Freres Haar Te: IS 
(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 


[One can divide the Pinda with three based on remainder infer 1.Ornaments of people 2.Coins or 


Money 3. Vessels. ] 


Subsubcategories of an Ornament 


Wal CABLOT ESS Yes: os z hyd | 


fae: Hvraaftarnfeare sre HATTA Il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[When it is confirmed that the question is about ornament divide the (resultant) Pinda by six and 
identify the organ to which the ornament belongs to as follows: 1.Head 2.Ear 3.Hand 4.Neck 5 
waist 6.Legs respectively based on the remainder. ] 


Another version of this quote reads - 


Axshara Prasna 44 


AAI Ee FSTAHTaT HASTA | 
fereanviprsirarpfedreal HAUT TI 


[Meaning is the same. ] 


Subsub categories of Money 


aTOrHeaTY raver Per: ArH feet: 
FAN TAAS ST aaa ates TH 10H 
arorenee fasta fests fage: ware | 
fous fafataerrd a wet Wa HaATEg ET: IN 11 I 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[If it is confirmed that the item is a coin, one should divide the Pinda with three and identify the 
kind of coin which is being talked about as - |.Gold 2.Silver 3.Copper respectively based on the 
remainder.] 
Gold, Silver and Copper coins were in use in ancient times. Now a days paper currency is in use. 
Therefore the astrologers will have to modify their sub-sub-category definitions accordingly to 


suit the modern times. 


Subsub categories of Vessels 
OASIS TAY star cae sea STC ATT: | 
AMeaeg Ace AAA AaT TVTH TS: M12 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Once it is confirmed that the item is a vessels, one may divide the Pinda with three and identify 
the kind of vessel as - |.Related to gods/temples 2.Related to Pitris (ancestors) or family lineage 


3.Related to the house respectively based on the remainder] 


ier Weta ara ereaprs: arch: I 


[Thus ends the second chapter titled ‘Dhatu Kanda’ of Prasnavidya] 


Axshara Prasna 45 
qerateara: [Chapter -3] 


FrHis: (Chapter on Plants) 


Sub categories of Mula 

FTAA HARI BAe MIA TTI 

Het HSS eT ara Yor ae TAT eT I 
adel Tre Tear Stet Poor Fest ATH | 
ystarsted fronted weathtaafeararet: | i 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[1 will speak about the subcategories of Mula as mentioned by Lord Siva in earlier. The expert 
astrologer should divide the ‘Resultant Pinda’ with six and understand the remainder as - 
1.Root, 2.Wood, 3.Bark, 4.Leaf, 5.Flower, 6.Fruit respectively. Similarly the color of the item 
under consideration can be derived by dividing by six - 1.White, 2.Red, 3.Yellow, 4.Black, 
5.Variegated, 6.Green respectively. ] 
Interesting to note that Garga ascribes the knowledge of classification of ‘plant parts’ into six 


categories (such as 1.Root, 2.Wood, 3.Skin, 4.Leaf, 5.Flower, 6.Fruit) to God Siva. 


1. Subsub categories of Root 
This is not available in the ‘Prasnavidya’ manuscripts we have. 


2. Subsub categories of Wood 
Maes calwereq yr Teaies TAT! 
PSA TUT SATS HATES Ts TS | 

(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[The planets can be subsub categorized into - |. Trees 2. Creepers, 3. Medicinal Herbs 
(Aushadi), 4.Grass (Trinam), 5.Shrubs (Gulma). Similarly divide by two to know whether it is - 
1.Sushkam (dry), 2.Ardram (wet) respectively. Similarly |.Bhaskyam (eatable), 2.Abhakshyam 


(uneatable) respectively. ] 


Axshara Prasna 46 


3. Subsub categories of Skin-Leaf-Flower-Fruit 
This is not available in the ‘Prasnavidya’ manuscripts we have. 
Overall this chapter seems to be incomplete, since it is well evident that slokas relating Subsub 


categories of many items are missing in this chapter. 


Sie Weaaqara ATH Seq AA: I 


[Thus ends the third chapter titled ‘Mula Kanda’ of Prasnavidya] 


Axshara Prasna 47 
aa arearey: [Chapter -4] 


ofants: (Chapter on Living things) 


Jiva 

Sub categories of Jiva 
afareeqaraeda fara: etait 
ae faratiore re fess waar gel: 1 Il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[The knowledgeable (astrologers) should know the remainder obtained by dividing by four to 
represent the various subcategories of Jivas (living things) as - 1.Dwipada (two-footed), 
2.Chatushpad (four-footed), 3. Vipada (without feet), 4.Bahupada (multi-footed)] 
Here the advice is that, once it is confirmed (through the division with three) that the item under 
consideration is Jiva, divide the Pinda again with four. If the remainder is one then the question 
is about two legged animals like humans or birds; if the remainder is four then the question is 
about four legged animals such as domestic or wild animals; if the reminder is three then the 
question is about animals without legs such as fish or snakes; and finally if the remainder is 4 
(i.e. zero) then the question is about animals with numerous legs such as Shadpada (insects with 


6 feet), spiders, centipede etc. 


1) Subsub categories of 2-legged Animals 
Sa Heese TAO TATA ETAT Il 


Aaa MAEM Hist: MTA: PATTI Il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Divide the Pinda with four and based on the remainder predict as follows - 1.Demigods, 


2.Humans, 3.Birds, 4.Rakshasas] 


Axshara Prasna 48 


Another reading is Uf@OM instead of TAN. Devata, Manushya, Yaksha, Rakshasa is a popular 


phrase. Yakshino sounds much better than pakshino. But still it should be remembered that it is 


the subsubsub categories of Pakshino (birds) that is given below, and not Yakshas. 


a) Subsubsub categories of Demigods (Devas) 
ydeaferae Pos wafers tel | 
PAE TIEMVT SATAY aT ETAT 3 I 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[(Once it is confirmed that the question is about Devas) take the Pinda divide it with four and add 
the quotient of the current division to it. (Take the remainder and) with four and identify the 
demigods as - |.Kayastha (Brahma etc), 2.Bhuvasastha (Indra, Kubera etc), 3.Jyotimshi (Sun, 
Moon etc), 4. Pitara (Forefathers etc) respectively based on the remainder] 
Sloka says take Pinda and add to it the quotient of the current division. This should be further 
professed to get further subdivisions. This sloka is very important in the sense, it gives us clue to 
the method followed for calculating further Pindas. | have already clarified this method in the 


first chapter, and therefore not discussing it here. 


b) Subsubsub categories of Humans 
MEAT: aA Tear: Ver STAN PATTI 
qaafeerse Pros set acar wert eter 4 I 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Once it is confirmed that the question is about Humans, divide the ‘Resultant Pinda’ with four 
and identify the humans as - 1.Brahmana, 2.Kshetriya, 3.Vaisya, 4.Sudra respectively based on 
the remainder] 


Further subcategories of Brahmins 


TEAAN TSCMT ATATEM AreTAT! 
qaateerse Pos ster gar wet Feeterl 5 i 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 


Axshara Prasna 49 


[Once it is confirmed that the question is about Brahmins, divide the ‘Resultant Pinda’ with four 
and identify the Brahmin as - 1.Brahmachari, 2.Grihasta, 3.Vanaprastha, 4.Yati respectively 


based on the remainder] 
Ache aT Hares Acar Afri: HAT 
Se: TAGES Iga HEATH | 

(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Once it is confirmed that the question is about Yatis, divide the ‘Resultant Pinda’ with four and 
identify the Yati as - 1.Hamsa, 2.Paramahamsa, 3.Bahudaka, 4.Kuteechara respectively based on 
the remainder] 


Details about the Subsubsubsub, Subsubsubsubsub categories of other subsubsub’s of Humans 


are not available in various available manuscripts of Prasnavidya. 


c) Subsubsub categories of Birds 
UPA STEAT: WA AHETASAT: HAT | 
qdeferact Pros Piatra wet feeteri7 Il 
(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Birds are said to of 3 types. (Once it is confirmed that the question is about birds) divide the 


‘Resultant Pinda’ with three and identify the Bird as - 1.Water bird 2.Land bird, 3.One that will 


move both in water and land - respectively based on the remainder] 


d) Subsubsub categories of Rakshasas 


This is not available in the Prasnavidya Manuscripts available with us. 


2) Subsub categories of 4-legged Animals 


This is not available in the Prasnavidya Manuscripts available with us. 


3) Subsub categories of zero-legged Animals 


This is not available in the Prasnavidya Manuscripts available with us. 


Axshara Prasna 50 


4) Subsub categories of multi-legged Animals 
This is not available in the Prasnavidya Manuscripts available with us. 
Overall this chapter seems to be incomplete, since it is well evident that slokas relating Subsub 


categories of many items are missing in this chapter. 


Bic weataqurn sHapisesd es: Il 


[Thus ends the fourth chapter titled Jiva Kanda of Prasnavidya] 


Axshara Prasna Sl 
qaaleard: [Chapter -5] 


fale: (Miscellaneous) 


Knowing other things 
One may want to know about some particulars like color, height, age etc. The following slokas 


describe the rules to do the same. 
aearreaanr Hear drat Head SETH: | 
Rertarcaen qafeatsretacts eros: Il 

(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Divide the ‘Pinda’ by three and using the remainder know the colors to be - 1.Fair (white, 
yellow), 2. Black, 3. In between the two i.e. Brown (or reddish white). Similarly to know the 
height/length, divide the ‘Pinda’ by three to know the height as - 1. Long/Tall, 2.Medium, 3. 
Short respectively based on the remainder. Similarly know the stage (of one’s life or age) as - 
1 Infant 2. Young 3. Old respectively. ] 
Please note that the above sloka does not, in anyway, indicate that a fair person asking the 
question will always be tall and always be a child; or that a black person asking the question 
would always be of medium height and would be young. The only instruction here is that 
whatever be the question is about, use the relevant number to divide the ‘Pinda’ and predict the 
result for that particular question itself. It would be wrong to try to predict all of these based on 


the same Akshara-Pinda itself. 
Faaerat Wat aT Hetenfarfa treat | 
preaaeet Ff Aad wht Perea aeg eT: 112 I 

(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Similarly (i.e. following the same method - further dividing the Resultant Pinda by two and 
based on the remainder), identify the item as ‘native’ or ‘foreign’. If the question happens to be 


asked at ‘Sandhya time’ (Moming Sandhya and Evening Sandhya), then know the item as 


‘Prakirna’ i.e. a mixed item.] 


Axshara Prasna 52 


Some say that ‘Kala-sandhi’ means, Morning Sandhya is a 48 minute time window with the time 
of sunrise or sunset as the middle. So 24 minutes on either side of sunrise and sunset lie in the 


Kala-Sandhi zone. 
As per Udq:4eea (4 Sandhyas) concept, Sandhyas are four in number such as - Sunrise, Mid- 


day, Sunset, Mid-night. At Morning Sandhya (Sunrise time) is 6 Nadika (2 hours 24 min 
approx.) before and after Sunrise each. Thus in the morning a total of 4 houses 48 min is 
Sandhya. Evening Sandhya (Sunset time) is 4 Nadika (1 hour 36 minute) each before and after 
Sunset. Thus in the evening, a total of 3 hours 12 minutes approx. is Sandhya. Similarly in mid- 
day and mid-night 10 Vinadi (4 min) each before and after is considered as Sandhya. Thus a total 


of 8 minute is the Sandhya time for mid-day and mid-night. 


Berwarfearater aera t TAIT 
FAS TEM Peas TeareHre ASH: 3 I 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[By performing divisions one after the other and adding (the quotient) to the Mula Pinda the 


learned astrologer should derive the subcategories of the item in consideration. ] 


Some versions read agiaer instead of oguT. 


In Roga-prasna 


Hergaer FT Arar AAG STAT TAT 
vd shafrant: Saisoitfad Aaa Td I 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[If (in some roga-prasna or so) one of the seven Dhatus needs to be identified then, divide the 
Pinda with 7 and know the remainder as - 1.Kesa (Hair), 2.Asthi (Bone), 3.Mamsa (Flesh), 
4.Charma (Skin), 5.Medas (Fat), 6. Rakta (Blood), 7.Vasa (Bone Marrow) respectively. 
Similarly (divide the Pinda with two and take the remainder) for the question regarding birth and 
death (divide the Pinda by 2 to predict) 1. living and 2. dead respectively. ] 


In the above quote one item out of the Sapta Dhatu (seven basic constituents of human body) - 


i.e. Rakta (Blood) is missing. Probably the word Ai in the above quote is a wrong reading and it 


Axshara Prasna 53 


should be some word indicating ‘blood’ that should come there. Anyway to convey the right 


meaning, we have added ‘Rakta (blood)’ too in the translation. 


SMI AST SAMTAET SMFALTAST TI 
TIA FERACT FACT AGT TST S I 
(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 


[Divide the ‘Resultant Pinda’ with five and adjudge the cause/place of death being - 1. Disease, 
2. Fever 3. Foreign land 4.War 5.Natural death (or in Native place) respectively. ] 


Questions about possibility war 
Pus sarees ah Sahl aaa | 
eee Ar: AATSLAT Fare T AAT: 16 
(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Add the Akshara Pinda of first letter of the names of (this is known as ‘Nama Pinda’) of the 


querent (and divide the result with three). Based on the remainder, know the advice (the 


astrologer should give) as - 1.Attack, 2.Don’t attack, 3.Sandhi (compromise) respectively. ] 


Identifying the name 

Pus q arated aeracter SETH: | 
fruswesrrcdan: Fy: AsSAled Ath: PATTI I 
Tee Het afer: aor Maes STH: | 

Sit AAA Met oT ST AEAH EATS il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Divide the Pinda by 7 and the (remainder) indicates the number of letters in the name. Divide 


the Pinda by 8 (and use the remainder) to find out the Varga. The quotient should be added to the 


Mula Pinda to get the Resultant Pinda and (it should be divided by 16 for 3-varga or 5 for #-T- 


¢-d-T Vargas or 4 for U-2T Vargas) to ascertain the exact letter in the name. This process should 


be continued until the number of letters in the name (as found out earlier) has been reached. This 


Axshara Prasna 54 


is how the letters in the name can be ascertained. This (knowledge) should not be given to 
anyone just like that.] 

Here one of the basic assumptions is that the number of letters in the name is less than 7, Mula 
Pinda is divided by 7 to get the number of letters in the name based on the remainder. 


The above quotes helps us to realize that the total number of Vargas as per Garga are 8 in 
number such as - 1.31a41, 2.Has, 3.0, 4.caeT, 5.AAaT, 6.TaT, 7a, 8.eraet. Further, the 


sloka provides us with some logic to identify to which Varga each letter of the name belongs to 
but it does not provide us clear rules to identify each letter in the name, and thus the name as a 
whole. Instead it only identifies the Varga to which each letter of the name falls into, and leaves 
the rest to the astrologer’s freedom. Some commentators try to extent this sloka to identify not 


only the total number of alphabets in the name, but also to identify each of those alphabets. Their 


argument/logic is as follows. Once you get the Varga (to which the alphabet falls into), if 31421 


(a-varga) then divide by 16. If #-d-c-d-4 Vargas then divide by 5. If 4-81 Vargas then divide by 


4. This helps you to identify the exact alphabet. Repeat this process until all the alphabets in the 


name has been identified. 
HAVA HA Hoh Tare TANT Te: | 
FAM GST Areca aTT: 119 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 


This sloka is unintelligible and possibly corrupted. 


Knowing Male-Female connection and finding the related house 


ater T alae Peay HANSA Il 
Teaaeaaa v2 Heda sraqaraer ferret il 10 i 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Divide the ‘Pinda’ with two and based on the remainder identify the querent as - 1.Male, 
2.Female. Similarly if one want to find the house (bhava) with which the question is related to, 


then divide the Pinda with 12 and interpret the remainder as - 1.First house, 2.Second house, 


Axshara Prasna 55 


3.Third house, 4.Fourth house, 5.Fifth house, 6.Sixth house, 7.Seventh house, 8.Eight house, 
9.Ninth house, 10.Tenth house, 11.Eleventh house, 12.Twelfth house respectively. ] 

This sloka gives us a method to know how the Pinda can be used to find out what house is the 
question related to: 1. Lagna 2. Second house or wealth 3. Third house or siblings ete. 


Some words in the sloka are unintelligible and we have left them out in translation. 


Hesqeafsasragel searsaed WHET Il 
are aigemaiea a ae aad: Weril11 il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[There are other subcategorizations but we have mentioned only a few of them otherwise the text 
would have become too large. The readers should know the (other subcategories) from other 
(standard astrological) texts] 
Some words in the sloka are unintelligible and we have left them out in translation. 


Some additional categorization schemes are added by us in the appendix. 


Finding the time of fructification of a result 
Tees Res gy Sear ATE RT 
MoT a AAT Raced AeA TAT: I 12 
Teel ease os eased HAGA: | 
Usd Tadeqetaraect oar Tar: ATI 13 Ul 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Take the Pinda and multiply it with the Dhruvanka (constant) of the planet. Divide the result 
with 71 and find the quotient. The learned ones should deduce the time of the result from the 
quotient of the division. The planet to be considered (for the previous multiplication) is obtained 
as follows: multiply (the Pinda) by six. Add eight. Divide by seven. The remainder indicates the 
planet. The Dhruvanka (constants) of the planets (to be used in multiplication) are 5 (Sun) , 3 
(Moon), 14 (Mars), 9 (Mercury), 7 Jupiter), 3 (Venus), 11 (Saturn).] 
As per Bhutasankhya number system, Chandra =1 (since there is only one Moon for earth), and 


Aga=7 (since there are 7 famous mountains on earth) 


Axshara Prasna 56 


As per Bhutasankhya number system, Pancha=5, Swarga=3 (since Swarga is the 3rd Loka in the 
list of 7 Lokas such as Bhu-Bhuvar-Swarga-Mahar-Jana-Tapa-Satya Lokas) , Indra =14 (because 
Indra is the deity for Jyeshta Nakshatra, which is the 14th Nakshatra in the ancient Nakshatra list 
starting with Mrigasira, which is also known as Agrahayani), Go=9 (Rf. MW dictionary), 
Naaga=8 (since the number of snakes is 8, Ashata-Naaga, the eight famous snakes), Vahni=3 (3 
famous fires such as Agnihotraagni, Jadharagni and Badavagni i.e. the fire at home, the fire in 


stomach, and the fire of destruction), Rudra=11 (the famous | 1 Rudras) 
IigarHearey feaar: TaNreT eehaay: | 

ATA: GLATSNT BET ara: eet vatssan: FT: M14 Il 

HTETot AAT ATTA ATTA SFT AT 

ale He Wageaaad Mar lqarez il 15 i 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[(While following the above method) if the planets in consideration are Sun or Mars then the 
remainder indicates the time in days. If Venus or Moon are in consideration then the count is in 
fortnights (15 days). If Jupiter is in consideration then the count is in months. If of Mercury, then 
in Ritus (2 months/seasons). If of Saturn, then years. In this way, the learned one should predict 
the results everywhere, be it Aadhana (impregnation), victory over the enemy, gains and losses, 


going and coming, disease or time of an event.] 
ALAFIA Coen ta Ta AAAI | 
Tea aT AAT Wea SAT HASATT ATTA Il 16 Il 


(Prasnavidya, Rf. PV) 
[Thus ‘Prasnavidya’ in ‘Garga Manorama’ has been spoken by me in 54 slokas. This knowledge 
should be given (only to) a good and sincere student. ] 


Different versions of this text ascribe different number of slokas to this text - some say 21, some 


others say 54 etc. Some readings are - sctanniaite: Qolleh: LANHAARAT and aD aSaeayr 


Qa FASTAARAT etc. Our current compilation contains 6+12+3+7+16 = 44 slokas. Thus it is 


evident that at least 54 - 44 = 10 slokas are missing from Prasnavidya. It is very likely that many 


Axshara Prasna 57 


of the missing slokas belong to the Mula and Jiva chapters. Getting hold of more manuscripts of 


this text could help in identifying the missing slokas. 


Sat Weatfaqaran faag: TTA: Il 


[Thus ends the fifth chapter titled Visesha Kanda of Prasnavidya] 


Sit WAT AA TATA Tea THT AAA MATT I 


[Thus ends commentary on ‘Prasnavidya’ which is part of ‘Garga Manorama’] 


Axshara Prasna 58 


Appendix - 1 
The following section is found as Appendix section in some versions of Prasnavidya. I don’t 


know from which text it is taken and added as appendix to Prasnavidya by some scholars who 


wrote translation and commentaries to Prasnavidya. 


Method to Find Pinda-Lagna 
fous caraetased Hares fatter | 


FSTATTASRT Het ALA Fee FT: Il | Il 


[Divide the ‘Akshara Pinda’ with 12 and find the Pinda-Lagna. In the following manner tell the 


result for the same.] 


Roga Prasna 

The problem with the following quotes is that they are written as if it is a “Roga prasna’, i.e. a 
prasna done to find the disease of the native. In other types of prasna the slokas won’t work, and 
it is good to just determine Pinda-lagna based on the above technique and then based on Pinda- 


lagna and the planetary position there onwards, deduce the possible results in your own way. 


Results for 12 Signs in case of Roga prasna 

Healsots [AAA TaLATM SAAT FIFA | 

prererprarttsr sense Aves FAI? Il 

[If the ascendant is Aries at the time of the query then there will be diseases related to weak 


digestion (less fire in stomach), spirits, Vaata (wind), fever, hunger, diseases related to the 


(Jovian?) year(?), pain in the waist, head and belly and a lot of distress. ] 


GF TATAMI SAT: HITAM AH (eSaALT ATA | 
HeraHIAR asa SAA YIAATA II3 I 


[For Taurus Lagna there will be sorrow, dreams, spirits, dryness, fever and diseases in the skull, 
eyes and waist. For Gemini Lagna diseases caused by disturbance in wind and Vela-Jwara (a 


kind of fever which lasts for one day).] 


Axshara Prasna 59 


It is likely that the term ‘vela-jwara’ is indicative of a kind fever (jwara) that lasts only for some 
specific time or ‘vela’. Sushruta has mentioned 8 kinds of fevers - |. Vataja, 2. Pittaja, 
3.Kaphaja, 4.Tridoshaja (Sannipata), 5.Dwandaja, 6.Vishama, 7.Aagantuka, 8.Gambhira. 
However ‘vela-jwara’ is not found in this list. Same is the case with some other jwaras such as 


‘sheeta-jwara’ mentioned in the next sloka. 


aeh Vere eae Ac UTaST FATA | 
Masao HVS Sle aT CAAT FAS 114 I 


[For Cancer Lagna there will be crying, laughing and silence (exhibited together, i.e. behavior 
like an insane person), pain in the ears and skull. For Leo Lagna there will be Sheetajwara 


(literally: cold-fever) and less appetite, diseases in the neck or heart.] 


POMAM AcalisaHlMoCMSlaAsAL caval: | 
FATA THE ATA T For FGSCT: 15 I 


[For Virgo Lagna there will be weak digestive fire, anger, laziness, less appetite, fever and 


diseases related to pitta, diseases of the mouth, problems in eyes, ears and tongue. ] 


The original text reads - TTT fafeser: and we have corrected it as TRTVT fafesenr:. 
Fel Yoret Ca ferencAeaaTA TAN FATT | 
Ale TA FS AS LorsHATal T PAST: I16 Il 


[For Libra Lagna there will be sharp pain and imbalance of phlegm, wind, pitta can be told, there 
would be distress from heat (or fever). For Scorpio Lagna there will be fever in the body, 


excessive phlegm in the ears and disease in the abdomen. ] 


UY MTA TAA aT HCot ATATTST FATT | 
FAY AT: AHNIG Seraarersararst TIT Il 


[For Sagittarius Lagna there will be dryness, fever and pain in the chest or head due to imbalance 
of wind. For Capricorn Lagna there will be sorrow/distress and pain due to wind (Vaata) in the 


limb indicated by the sign.] 
Note: The original line was H&L ATTAART AevaHren(3tSeTist T - this is erratic. So it was 


amended to what is seen above. 


Axshara Prasna 60 


pal J aeNasat Het F SEAT ale: SA | 
SAAT TF GOW Asa USO WaT: 18 


[For Aquarius Lagna there will be deafness. For Pisces Lagna there will be burning in hands and 


feet, eating grass (like an insane person) fever and various kinds of diseases. ] 


Cause of the disease 
These quotes speak about the supernatural cause of disease, probably useful for doing divine 


remedies. 


Hat Ydottes Fe cata ass Heellegar efeeit a 
TASS AANA SFA S)TAA MEl THA IATA (3) FoF: | 
UTISTALATSH aAphaset Te WT SHAT AT Arse S19 I 


[Obstruction due - to Pitr if Aries, Vyomadevi if Taurus, Mahesi if Gemini, Sakini if Cancer, 
strong Jalapreta if Leo, Grahabadha if Virgo, Kshetrapala if Libra, Sarpa if Scorpio, Bodily 
diseases if Sagittarius, Chandika if Capricorn, Preta if Aquarius, Yogini if Pisces - should be 
told.] 


fee [ame meinem 


Axshara Prasna 6l 


yee ee 
}9 | Sagitars| Anga-gada | Bodily diseases 


Chandika The female deity named ‘Chandika’ 
The female deity named ‘Yogini’ 


Disease and Tridosha 


These quotes speak about the Ayurvedic cause of disease, useful for doing Ayurvedic remedies. 


favs adfststed J pwftcafete: PAK 
Pare ict Sars F Meares faraTTT: I 10 I 


[Divide the (Resultant) Pinda with four, and know the result as |.Kapha, 2.Pitta, 3.Vata, 
4.Tridosha based on the remainder. Similarly divide the (Resultant) Pinda with two and know the 


result as 1.Sadhya (possible to cure), 2. Asadhya (impossible to cure) based on the remainder. ] 


Death and Life in Roga prasna 
fius afasted aeaiscitdel ALU Az | 


favs fafericarret J Te MEA ST) Fg eH I 1 Il 


[Divide the (Resultant) Pinda with two to know whether the patient will live or die, based on the 
remainder as |.Live, 2. Die respectively. Similarly divide the (Resultant) Pinda with three to 
know where the patient will die as 1.At home, 2.Outside home, 3.At a very distant place 


respectively. ] 


Axshara Prasna 62 


Chora Prasna 


Theft item and Pinda-lagna 

AVee SAALAN Warraed FF HI | 

set T fAYet ALT: Yq: Hehe YA 12 

HeAAPAHT: AS HeAAST Holger | 

AT STAT AT ITA TTA AEST BATT IN 13 Il 

aft dacectreard ate: Fert staat 

Aa dead: Rae HEF aed ATH: |N14 I 

sitet sqfPraret siterdd arezrer ae sta 

SMA Ae Aces AIT Te: N15 I 

[Know the details of the thief as follows based on (Akshara Pinda) Lagna - Aries-Brahmin, 
Taurus-Kshatriya (warrior), Gemini-Vaisya (businessman), Cancer-Sudra (servant), Leo-Antyaja 
(low caste), Virgo-Kulangana (family lady), Libra-Son or friend, Scorpio-Servant, Sagittarius- 


women, Capricorn-Vaisya (businessman), Aquarius-Rat, Pisces-gone underground (lost 


underground). This method of knowing the thief can be applied always.] 


Antyaja (born in very low caste, slave) 
}6 | vito | Kulangana (Proud lady, family lady) 


Axshara Prasna 63 


pee ee 
Era 


Capricorn Vaisya (Businessman) 
Gone underground 


Name of Thief and Pinda-lagna 
ONE agar aa AVersal T Aes | 


UGA ATA ASRS FT sa I 16 I 
FRYoT SAAT ATA HAHN HAMA | 

Hehe SA ATA AHR GHA Me Il 17 Il 

FAS T saan aA AMRaH aca | 

HAM GAA ATA AHR Fate 18 
Toa saa aA APRCH ATT | 

dot Fated Meh TRA 9 I 

PEA HAA AA AHH AAA | 

Alet TT SAA ATA THRE Teer eteT Il 20 Il 


[Know the following details about the name of the thief based on (Akshara) Pinda Lagna - 
1.Aries - two letters in the name of the thief and the name starts with ‘sa’; 2. Taurus - four letters 
in the name of the thief and the name starts with ‘ma’; 3.Gemini - three letters in the name of the 
thief and the name starts with ‘ka’; 4.Cancer - three letters in the name of the thief and the name 


starts with ‘ta’; 5. Leo - three letters in the name of the thief and the name starts with ‘ma’; 


Axshara Prasna 64 


6.Virgo - two letters in the name of the thief and the name starts with ‘ma’; 7. Libra - three 
letters in the name of the thief and the name starts with ‘ma’; 8.Scorpio - four letters in the name 
of the thief and the name starts with ‘sa’; 9.Sagittarius - four letters in the name of the thief and 
the name starts with ‘sa’; 10.Capricorn - four letters in the name of the thief and the name starts 
with ‘sa’; 11.Aquarius - three letters in the name of the thief and the name starts with ‘la’; 
12.Pisces - three letters in the name of the thief and the name starts with ‘va’] 

Interesting to note that only the letters ‘ma’, ‘sa’, ‘ka’, ‘ta’, ‘va’ are told for name of the thief and 


no other letter! This indicates that these quotes could be corrupt and unreliable. 


Axshara Prasna 65 


Yuddha Prasna 

AY WAT FT FAT FATA aT: | 

aah Aaa Set aa aaT Aaa AS AAA 2 | Il 
leauge soit Tae aaa Te ATTA | 
USAT Has aired SH Het Caerod BAT 22 I 
saaraterinsnachtpce Pfr | 

ede Foret eareht career ort see ATI 23 I 


[The Dhruvanka for Signs starting from Aries are as follows - 1.Aries - 35, Taurus -54, Gemini- 
15, Cancer - 54, Leo - 18, Virgo - 24, Libra - 46, Scorpio - 46, Sagittarius - 15, Capricorn - 36, 
Aquarius - 27, Pisces - 10 respectively. Add the Dhruvanka of attacker and defender and divide 
with three. If remainder is zero or three then the defender wins, if the remainder is two then the 
attacker wins. ] 

Here ‘Bhutasankhya’ number system is used to denote numbers. Ramasara means 25 because 
Rama=3, and Sara=5, and as per the rule ‘sankhyanam vamato gati’ (numbers should be written 
from right to left), it becomes 35. Similarly for other numbers. Rama is three because there were 
three famous Ramas such as Srirama, Parasurama and Balarama; and Sara means five because 
the term points to Panchasara (or Panchabana) which is a term used to denote Kamadeva (god of 
sex), who is said to inflict desire by using arrows (Banas) made of five types of flowers such as 
Asoka, white lotus, blue lotus, Mallika (Jasmine) and Mango flowers. 


- 000 - 


Axshara Prasna 66 


Appendix - 2 
In some versions of Prasnavidya a whole section of Prakshipta slokas are found just after the 


second quote. The same is listed below along with the reasons for identifying them as Prakshipta 


quotes. 
WIRIaS HHA ACAlest T Het Hr 

AGH el AGATA Tara FATAET A 
ATAU Weel Teer: TAT 


(Prakshipta) 
[If it is morning the question should be asking after donating some flowers (with respect), and if 
it is in the afternoon the question should be asking after donating some fruits (with respect), and 
if it is in the evening then the question should be asked after mentioning the name of some river, 
and if it is night then the question should be asked after mentioning the name of some scholar. 
Asking of question should be done after bowing to the astrologer, with a peaceful mind. ] 
This a very absurd suggestion not found anywhere else. Since the very foundation of ‘Akshara 
prasna’ (the system of prediction dealt within Prasnavidya) is ‘prediction based on the first letter 
of ‘any’ sentence spelt by the querent’, it is out of context to find a strict condition about what 
word the querent should speak when he meets the astrologer. Actually forcing such conditions on 
the querent goes against the very foundation of Prasna. This quote is found in only one version of 


Prasnavidya available with us and not others, which confirms that this is certainly a Prakshipta. 
PaTATA a fe daa ayesha | 
ae Wat: Mell TACIT oT ANT: Il 


(Prakshipta) 
[To an astrologer who is listening to his questions, after properly worshipping the planets, and 
after completing his own daily (morning) routines (such as bath etc.), the querent with a peaceful 


mind, should ask the questions with respect and folded hands. The who is asking questions to the 


Axshara Prasna 67 


astrologer after (respectfully) submitting some gift such as flower, fruit etc., only to him the 
astrologer should tell ‘Prasna’ (i.e. answer his questions), the questions by others go waste (their 
questions should not be answered, and they will never reap the result)] 

The above is a Prakshipta sloka which is an adaptation of the following quote from the 18th 


century text Kerala Prasna Sangraha - 
PATIZA Ais carat TLTES!S | 
AEA HAA Wet Aes Haa AAA II 


(Kerala Prasna Sangraha, Rf. KPS) 


Meaning is same as above. 


SATUS AY TaTETAN TETAS | 

alec AeaATATA AAS etsy: FA FSAI 
AHA af THACT: PACA TAT FAM | 
aed cafaeaey caRe a aechear Il 
HFAAMccaletaet Aaa af Fale | 
facret safe Ales ACA eAFa: Hal AeeLIl 


(Prakshipta) 
[The astrologer should never answer queries from people such as - people with crooked intellect, 
atheist, extravagant, disrespectful, sarcastic people. Answers given to such people never fructify. 
The astrologer should not answer to challenges raised to him in meetings, should not answer to 
people with crooked intellect, should not answer questions asked at night time, should not 
answer in the Aparahana time (1 PM - 3 PM approx.), should not answer to insincere people, 
should not answer those who are in a hurry. He should answer the questions of respectful, sad, 
troubled people. If the astrologer does not help such people who are in need of help, then his 


knowledge goes waste. ] 


Axshara Prasna 68 


The above is a Prakshipta sloka which is an adaptation of the following quote from Kerala 


Prasna Sangraha - 


SAT ASyAy Taree TETAS | 

aAlcat AeAATARS aie wey: Fa TET Il 
AHA td Teas ag Walteay fer key | 
M(B) WTeat CAALALY CaN aT HATTA Il 
HFAAM cA aes carat a feeteate | 
faster sata let ACATCAST Beal eal 


(Kerala Prasna Sangraha, Rf. KPS) 
Meaning is same as above. In some versions of Prasnavidya the following quote about 
‘Sprishanga Rasi and Phala’ are found which again is an adaptation from Kerala Prasna 


Sangraha, and there too it re-arranges the order of these quotes found in Kerala Prasna Sangraha. 


Sprishanga Rasi and Phala 
WSET Ue PATA FAN EANeAAT | 
SAF: We HAA: AT IA SACI 
aie afarrecas aferongat Tyee AG: | 
dal aifersfard: Wt: FIAMMA: Il 
AeaTaeagecleat CAAA ST FMEACT | 
SarfareAeT: Akar MTs FAS: eT AST: Il 


(Prakshipta) 
[If the querent touches his own body at the time of the query then the prasna is called a Samyukta 
prasna. It indicates gains/success. Further, if he touches the right side of the body with his right 


hand then it is called an Aalingita prasna. It indicates happiness and gains etc. If he touches the 


Axshara Prasna 69 


right side of his body through his left hand then it is called Abhidhumita prasna. It indicates gains 


from friends and meeting (with them).] 
Maa sagas: Fesesaaarsta: | 
HATAAEART Wet ATT WHATS: I 
TAGE TAS Tel Wat EPEAT | 
dal carats: Wal TAA STH: Il 
WSET Wat FACET ATA FGNEAAT | 

Aa HaAASeT: Wat: HASTA: Tay 


(Prakshipta) 
[If the question is asked while lying down or while sitting on a horse etc. and the querent is 
devoid of respect then the prasna is called Asamyukta. It gives result after a very long time. If the 
querent touches his left body part using his left hand while posing the query then the prasna is 
called Abhihita prasna and it causes losses. If the querent touches someone else’s body with his 
hands while asking then it is called Anabhihita prasna. It causes the destruction of the thing 


under consideration.] 
dcqea: Weatael taHtdh Hie HK a Fad BT Acad | 
GAEAST MHA 31) STATAHT AA: Hey Al(31) aeaA TEA: Il 


(Prakshipta) 
[If while asking a question the querent grinds/rubs over his head, waist, hand or heart then the 
intelligent ones should know it to be an Abhighata prasna which causes sorrow. It brings all 


kinds of distress. ] 


See] TAT Gah a afrareraafectet | 
siftcatataghe: He GeschaTAre Aa I 
STUMTEAAT ASM WaT: MAKATI: | 
qatisretedd Hears eT I 16 Il 


(Prakshipta) 


Axshara Prasna 70 


[If while asking the query, the querent is crying, is fearful, is sad or stands close to a low-caste 
man, is deprived of devotion then it gives rise to ‘Dagdha’ (burned) yoga. The prasna indicates 
sorrow and distress. It causes pain and misery and destroys the work in consideration. ] 


The above is possibly an adaptation of the following Kerala Tatva Prasna Sangraha quotes. 


carat swefaemeen:| Hyea:, sear, asa, seisisa:, ssrenfeen:, anfeifeter, 
arfareyaa:, are: Stel 


[To begin with, there are eight kinds of prasnas. 1. Samyukta 2. Asamyukta 3. Abhihita 4. 
Anabhihita 5. Abhighatika 6. Aalingita 7. Abhidhoomita 8. Dagdha] 


BiG USE WVHA FITS EYSeaT Fooia Tal AAAI: AT osAHN Hater Ae Ter 
Wet AeA Meal A saa aarted worscataatad aX Foote Aas yeyra: Wet: 
MRAM seictaea oIAMe TS rae Bie Wer WVTIAY aTHStAeT ATA Tye 
Aaa: Wet: Hema Hafel Ale Wer wast Meta West rye 
Aan sarfaed: Wat: HEATH sara ARS Wer wea Ata Hie Fat sta WE T 
AGA Aas AANAh: Wet:| MserasHNat safe || Ae wer wees afAvreT fers 
afer eyed canst: wet) omareenrat srafail sie wer wera 
SPATLOT ATALOT aT Hater Eger aansnfareyaa: wWet:| sfeAel weet Pehfereonss: 
PAT ATAeT ll Ale Wer WeAAA Vetg: Baccarat stad: Foot 
AGT GIA SETS: | TT Wet: MH AAG: STAE TOBA SAT Il 

(Kerala Tatva Prasna Sangraha, Rf.KTPS) 
[If the querent touches his body while asking a question then it is a Samyukta prasna. Such a 
prasna indicates gains. If the querent is on the road, is in a sleeping position, is sitting on a 
palanquin, elephant or a horse, is devoid of sentiments (devotion), is not holding fruits or other 
materials in his hands then it is an Asamyukta prasna. In this prasna gains and happiness come 
after a very long time. If the querent touches the left side of his body with his left hand while 


posing the query then it is called an Abhihita prasna and it does not indicate gains (or it indicates 


losses). If the querent touches someone else’s body while asking the question then it is called 


Axshara Prasna TI 


Anabhihita prashna. It does not indicate any gains in associated endeavor. If the querent rubs his 
head, waist, heart, hands or feet during the query then it is called Abhighatika prashna. It causes 
sorrow and distress. If at the time of the query the querent touches the right side of his body with 
his right hand then it is called Aalingita prasna. It causes gains and comforts. If at the time of the 
query the querent touches all the limbs of his body using either his left or right hand then it is 
called Abhidhoomita prasna. It causes some gains and also indicates arrival of friends etc. If at 
the time of query the querent is crying, is sorrowful, fearful, distressed, is close to a depressed 
place (like a pit), is devoid of devotion then it is called Dagdha prasna. Such a prasna indicates 


sadness, distress, sorrow, pain and a lot of losses. ] 


[ates [namenmaneme 
fam [ai an 


Similar quotes can be found in other texts ascribed to the tradition of Acharya named ‘Keralan’, 


such as ‘Kerala Prasna Sangraha’, ‘Kerala Prasna Ratna’ etc. It looks pretty odd that one of the 
well-known Prasnavidya versions, adopts slokas verbatim from the 18th century texts of 
‘Keralan’s tradition’ such as Kerala Tatwa Prasna Sangraha and Kerala Prasna Sangraha. 


Probably these are interpolations done by one of the Hindi translators of this book, probably 


Axshara Prasna 72 


because he felt the contents and the text is too limited and some improvement is necessary. It is 


such ‘improvements without awareness’ which destroyed many good books. 
GronleaNe aA HATSHEA ALI 

a Ee) = 

AQrAET Waa CA OTH TOT See: I 


(Prakshipta) 
[With a pleasant mind, the astrologer should write down the name of the fruit, flowers etc. 
spoken by the querent and then he should do the computations based on the same. ] 
This sloka could be an interpolation and found only in one published version of Prasnavidya and 
not in the manuscripts available. This sloka is found just after the numerous interpolations from 
‘Kerala Tatva Prasna Sangraha' into this text and as such could be an interpolation. 


- 000 - 


Axshara Prasna 


Part - Il 
3TeTTHlel: 


(aaetearfartad) 


Aksharakosa 


(By Sage Yavaneswara) 


73 


Axshara Prasna 74 


Introduction 


How to indicate the names of substances? Aksharakosa is an answer to this quest. The 
importance of this text is that it tells us how to predict the name of items, an area which needs 
real research. It is interesting to note that, this is from Bhattolpala's commentary to Brihat 


Samhita. Aksharakosa is the biggest quote Bhattolpala provides from any other text, and the only 
quote for which he himself provides a commentary. (Refer to Whole RICAMA:, near to Page 


number 999-1000 in second part of Brihat Samhita commentary by Bhattolpala). 


Bhattolpala is quoting Yavaneswara and Bhattolpala says - 
UGTA afl TeMedsgeaewIea gg eareIAA seeds 
MAA TAALAHALTTANAM CUA | AA ST Tata a ASAE 


[What Varahamihira has mentioned is "alpa" (little) and so not sufficient. The ‘alpa' (little) 
information given by Varahamihira cannot be used by mediocre people. Hence I am quoting 
‘Aksharakosa’ chapter from the text named ‘Bodhi Yatra’ by Yavaneswara] 

And then he goes on to quote 32 slokas from Aksharakosha with commentary with ‘separate’ 
sloka number. And after finishing the same, he continues with the sloka number and quote of 
Brihat Samhita. This is something he never did for any other quote or extracts he provided! 
Certainly this text must be something special! Interesting to note that there are many texts 
ascribed to Yavaneswara - may be the same or different person. Some of these are - 

1. Stri Jataka - A book on female horoscopy. Ascribed to Yavaneswara. 

2. Yavanendrakalpa - A book on natal horoscopy. Mentioned in ‘Yavana Jataka’ by 
Sphujidhwaja. Probably Sphujidhwaja quotes a lot from Yavanendrakalpa of Yavaneswara. 

3. Bodhi Yatra - Probably a book on Yatra (travel). Aksharakosha chapter from it is quoted by 
Bhattolpala in commentary to Brihat Samhita. Ascribed to Yavaneswara. 

When it comes to predicting the names substances or at least the beginning letters of it, I never 
saw anything better than this anywhere else. Whether it will work or not is another question and 
might need some more research. It was a good thing that we already had a commentary of 
Bhattolpala on it, so hopefully that will make it easier to understand as well, we thought. But 
when started working on this text we realized that Bhattolpala’s text in most instances gave the 


word meaning only and did not elaborate it much further. So the help we got from Bhattolpala’s 


Axshara Prasna 75 


commentary was bare minimum. But as they say, something is better than nothing, and here we 
present the result of our effort on this text before you to judege, appreciate or reject. Consider 
this as a work in an area of astrology where much further research and study is required to arrive 
at any tangeable, verifiable, replicable results. 


-0Q- 


Axshara Prasna 76 


Aksharakosa 
(From the text ‘Bodhi Yatra’ by Yavaneswara) 
Promise 
Her: TE AH era fer FENG STAAL TST | 


Scroller Fas foralfer safer Hegwarey: TTA 1 Il 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[Now I will speak about the (rules of finding the) names of different substances (which can be 
classified into Dhatu-Mula-Jiva - i.e. Nonliving-Plants-Living) as known and used by the people. 
These names are a group of alphabets. The letters (which make up a name) have been divided 
(and ascribed to various signs) by my favorite sages. I will speak about these names (the letters 
of) which begin with the quadrants (such as 1-4-7-10).] 
e Bhattolpala says that, here the term ‘my favorite sages’ refers to sages such as Narayana, 
Sun, Vasishtha, Parasara, Maya etc. 
e Here the term ‘substances’ indicate everything in the world that can be categorized Non- 
living things, Plants and Animals. 
e The whole discussion done in this books helps us only to guess the number of letters in 
the name and also to guess the first letter of the name. Without additional rules, it would 


be impossible to find the whole name (i.e. all letters present in the name). 


The Basics 


The fundamental rule 
Here the name is primarily identified based on the Navamsas of planets falling in various signs 
(i.e. Navamsa chart). Help is taken occasionally also from Drekkana (D-3) and Rasi (D-1) too for 


determining the number of letters in the name etc. 
WIA FTA EAT Ecler aT: TaIT: 
sf feaary say S Iso STAM: | 
AFA HATTA STAT fara A MST FATT HHATT U2 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


Axshara Prasna 77 


[Find out the Navamsa that is equal in count to the Lagna Navamsa in 1-4-7-10 houses as well. 
The letters ascribed to (the Navamsas) of those houses compose the name]! 
For example, if the Lagna Navamsa is 4th Navamsa of Virgo then (it determines the first letter of 
the name) and the rest of the letters are determined by 4th Navamsa of Capricorn (4th sign from 
Lagna), 4th Navamsa of Pisces (7th sign from Lagna), and 4th Navamsa of Gemini (10th sign 
from Lagna). 
Or in other words the advice here is that the first 4 letters of the name are determined in sequence 
by the Navamsas of 1-4-7-10 houses. It logically follows that the rest of the letters in the name 
would be determined by 2-5-8-11 houses and 3-6-9-12 houses respectively. Or in other words the 
letters within the name are determined by 1-4-7-10-2-5-8-11-3-6-9-12 houses in sequence. If the 
Lagna is 4th Navamsa of any sign, then consider the 4th Navamsa of each of these signs 
sequentially to determine the letters of the name. Similarly if the Lagna is Sth Navamsa of any 
sign, then consider the Sth Navamsa of each of these signs sequentially to determine the letters of 
the name, and so on. 
The following points should be noted. 

e Rahu and Ketu are not considered in determining the name. 

e This is the most important sloka in this book. The rest of the book is just an explanation 

and elaboration of the above principle with corollaries and additional info. 
e This text only says that this rule can be useful in Prasna, it does not say that this rule can 
be applied in Natal chart. Therefore trying to apply this rule in natal chart, in an effort to 


derive the name of the native, may meet with failure. So be careful about it. 


Grouping of Alphabets 
HAA HAHA egaarare TAG fet Tater | 
SENT: eiarett fer wera SONS AHN Ta: ST: 113 Ul 
(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[(The sages) say that the alphabet-groups belonging to Mars, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn 


are the (consonant) groups beginning with ‘ka’, ‘ca’, ‘Ta’, ‘ta’ and ‘pa’ respectively. The 


' Editor: We don’t think think that this meaning and understanding is perfect enough. There could be more 
to this sloka, and understanding this most important sloka is key to understanding this book and the 
system proposed by it. This sloka needs further scrutiny by the learned scholars. 


Axshara Prasna 78 


alphabet-group of Moon is the one beginning with ‘ya’. The alphabet-group of Sun is the group 


beginning with (the vowel) ‘a 


Vowels Sun 37 317 Ss a ap 3% (Ri) % (RD 
Swara 
(a) | (A) (e) | (E) | @) | ©) 
Sun} lan] e 3H 3T: (aH) 
(L“i) (e) | “e) | (0) | (au) | (am) 


Guttural Mars & (ka) 
Kanthya 

Palatal Venus @ (ca) 
Taalavya 


Cerebral Mercury | @(Ta) | S(Tha) @ (Dha) 
Murdhanya 
Dental Jupiter a (ta) | 2 (tha) € (dha) 
Dantya 
Labial Saturn U(pa) | (pha) aT (bha) 
Oshthya 


Approximant & (ya) 
Antahsthah 

Fricative (sha) | ¥ (Sha) 
Ushma 


Axshara Prasna 79 


About the Name 
Namakshara Sankhya - Rule based on Lagna Drekkana 
“Namakshara Sankhya’ means count of letters in the name. Here a rule based on Lagna Drekkana 


is provided to know the same. 


AOHTOTGGCA Waa fol ATT FATS AACA ALAIN | 
Aaa F equi Sra eHyeh TATA ee ee qqear 4 Il 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[If the Lagna is an odd sign then the number of alphabets in the name is 3, 5, 7 depending on the 
Drekkana occupying the ascendant (i.e. if Ist Drekkana then the name contains 3 letters, if 2nd 
then 5 letters, if 3rd then 7 letters). If the sign is an even sign then the number is 2, 4, 6 
depending on the Drekkana occupying the ascendant (1.e. if lst Drekkana then the name contains 
2 letters, if 2nd then 4 letters, if 3rd then 6 letters). The alphabets are determined based on the 


increasing strength of aspect of the planets. ] 


Lagna Drekkana No. of letters if Odd Sign No. of letters if Even Sign 


Namakshara Sankhya - Special rule for Vargottama Navamsa of Lagna 


aalcret Gara are Saataret TAA AL 
aitery deat ervaranrior eycfearaareay J Ure TIS I 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[If Lagna Navamsa is Vargottama in Movable sign then 2 letters, if (Lagna Navamsa is 
Vargottama) in Fixed sign then 4 letters. If Lagna is in an odd sign then odd number of letters, (if 
Lagna is in even sign then even number of letters). This rule applies when the (Lagna Navamsa 


is Vargottama) in Mixed sign.] 


Axshara Prasna 80 


If Lagna is odd then - 3-5-7 etc. 
If Lagna is even then - 2-4-6 etc. 


Note that if Lagna is not in Vargottama, then this special rule does not apply. 


Two names 
arafcdas J ade afaara ateatarc afaapat a cert 
UTATeL BOT: SAAT AST) MHA ATATeT MS: WaT) STATA I 6 Il 

(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[If the Lagna is a Mixed sign, then tell that he will have two names. If the sign is aspected by 
Mercury, or if the sign itself is of double nature (such as Libra having 2 sides), then too it can be 
predicted that the native will have two names. (These two names should be identified in the 
following way.) Speak about the 1st name considering the Navamsa of planets (based on the 
Lagna Kendradi rule told earlier) and speak about the 2nd name considering the Sign of planets 


in Natal chart (based on the Lagna Kendradi rule told earlier)] 


Details of Alphabets at each position within the name 
Identifying Specialties of the letters in Name 
The following statement is based on Lagna Navamsa. If the Lagna Navamsa is in odd, even, 


exalted etc. the following can be told. 
aaa agery fierqard REY HATA safc | 
Tae Sharp yararena TAA Teorey FATT 7 I 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[If the sign is odd then the conjoint letter appears in the beginning of the name. If it is an even 
sign then the conjoint letter appears in the end of the name. (Next, how to find the conjoint 
letter?) Find the letter based on the sign. If it is an exalted Navamsa then same letter is repeated 


twice. (If not then) the major (guru) letter in the Samyukta is based on the sign.] 


Axshara Prasna 81 


Odd sign Conjoined letter at the beginning of the name 
Conjoined letter at the end of the name 


Exalted sign Double letter 


If not exalted Then the major (second) letter in the conjoined letter gets determined based 


sign on the sign. 


This sloka is bit difficult to understand, and probably seems to propose that that somewhere in 
the name there always would be a conjoined letter. Probably our understanding of this sloka is 


erroncous. 


AAT Fag STH Hr Kop a TT caATy | 
aatarqedarensneqay wa rated Tofesay Is I 


(Aksharakosa, Rf. BSBU) 
[If there is a planet in the trine then (the letter) has a Matra (or Visarga etc.). The letters with 
which it is associated is based on the Drekkana. If the 10th house is strong then the Matra comes 
on the top of the letter. If the 4th house is strong then the Matra comes on the bottom of the 


letter. If the 7th house is strong then there is a Visarga. ] 
efefadgqedererinn Aras yeotqaenfegay | 
fate a freqargsratad a dtety cratierary ae aTI9 Il 

(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[If the sign is a head-rising sign then the Matra-sign is placed on the top of the alphabet. If the 
sign is a tail-rising sign then the Matra-sign is placed on the bottom of the alphabet. If it is both a 


head and a tail-rising sign then the Matra-sign is slanting. If the sign is a Deergha (long) sign 
then the Matra-sign is Deergha (long) else it is Hrasva (short).] 


Example of Matra-signs placed on top of a letter: 3 3i 
Example of Matra-signs placed on bottom of a letter: 33 


Deergha signs: Le, Vi, Li, Sc 


Axshara Prasna 82 


Madhya signs: Ge, Cn, Sg, Cp 
Hrasva signs: Ar, Ta, Aq, Pi 


WF AAA A AAT SLAY ACA HIA SALAS: FATT | 
PUAN Sfed TYSCAEM Sears Arar T PHOT Aw Hl 1 OU 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[The clustering of letters is done using the signs which are placed in the Ist, 4th, 7th and 10th 
houses based on their Navamsas. A malefic placed in these four houses will obliterate that letter. 
If it is placed in a trine (from there) or casts an aspect then it will obliterate the Matra (associated 


with that letter).] 
UAASS Ao AA aA SATA TSANG: A MET: | 
Teel et: HenHraay Tareas Toba HA I 

(Aksharakosa, Rf. BSBU) 
[If a benefic planet is endowed with strength and is placed in a quadrant or a trine and casts an 
aspect then it supplies a letter whose position (in its Varga) is equal to the number of the 


Navamsa in which the planet is placed. Similarly if it is exalted (it contributes a letter). If it is in 


its own Navamsa then it supplies two letters. ] 


ataeay aftoraeis ery a Aaa areepafel Tsar 
HAFSHAS IRIAN ASAT Trea eaersAere se ll 12 I 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[If the lord of a sign is without strength and is placed in a weak Navamsa then the letter and the 
Matra contributed by the letter is obliterated. But if it is aspected by its lord placed in an exalted 


Navamsa then the (original) planet supplies the first letter of its Varga.] 


Hog VUACMATATHST AACT ACAATART FqCAT | 
PASAT SAN ATA SAAT aera T Ul 13 | 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


Axshara Prasna 83 


[After considering the sthana bala and drishti bala of a quadrant sign and its lord (respectively) 
one should juxtapose the (corresponding) alphabets in sequence. And one should also determine 


and assign Matras to those letters. ] 
TAAL A AAs ATTA AH HATTA | 
DSIAHET: CATO Aa et Mca FART AT 14 I 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[There the first sign belongs to the first of the four quadrants (when placed in the order of their 
strengths). The first Navamsa comes first and this is the sequence to be followed. From the lord 
of the Navamsa one should determine its Varga (and the exact letter in that Varga) in order to 


construct (the word) according to the rules which follow. ] 


Letters for each Navamsa of each sign 

Letter that should be told for each Navamsa of every sign is given below. This is in truth, just an 
elaboration of what is already told in sloka 3 and nothing more. But here occasionally some 
slokas deviate a bit (but not much) from the traditional view. But more or less the views 
expressed by Yavanacharya stays in tune with the opinion of the earlier in sloka 3 and the very 


same opinion expressed by sages like Garga etc. 


Movable Sign 
AY HON Ih THRE Tet THR AHt THR: | 
AY GON GH 3) THRE Tea THN AHr PHT: N15 | 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[(If the Lagna is Ist Navamsa of a movable sign then, first letter of the name could be) - & for 
Aries, U for Cancer, J for Libra, 4 for Capricorn. (If the Lagna is 2nd Navamsa of a movable 


sign then, first letter of the name could be) - & for Aries, 31 for Cancer, @ for Libra, ® for 


Capricorn. ] 


Axshara Prasna 84 


e Why ‘If the Lagna is Ist Navamsa of a movable sign then % for Aries’? Because Ist 


Navamsa of Aries falls in Aries and thus in ‘own Navamsa’ and it is an odd sign. The 


group ascribed to Mars the lord of Aries is ®4l (-@-a1-G-S). Now since Aries is an 


odd sign, the even letters (such as G-") gets dropped and the odd letters (such as -41-S) 


gets selected. That is why it is said here that if the Lagna is 1st Navamsa of Aries then the 


letter is &. But it actually here means, the first letter could be of ast, and there too H- 
a1-§. Please don’t misunderstand the above statement to limit yourself to % alone. 


e Why ‘If the Lagna is lst Navamsa of a movable sign then 4 for Cancer’? Because Ist 


Navamsa of Cancer falls in Cancer and thus in ‘own Navamsa’. The group ascribed to 


Moon the lord of Cancer is 4a4T (S--A-F-I-Y-F-S). That is why it is said here that if 
the Lagna is 1st Navamsa of Cancer then the letter is U. But it actually here means, the 
first letter could be of Bas1 (G-X-c1-4-21-4-G-B). Please don’t misunderstand the above 


statement to limit yourself to & alone. 


Even though this is the general logic, Yavaneswara do not seem to follow the Odd-Even 
variation everywhere. But instead he deviates from the same and at many places suggests odd 
letters from the same Varga even for even signs, and even letters from the same Varga even for 
odd signs. Thus it probably indicates that he do not give much importance to the odd-even 
variation. Further he gives importance to the sequence number (within the Varga) and suggests 
only one letter from that Varga instead of suggesting more than one Varga from the same Varga. 
These points should be remembered while trying to understand the letters proposed by 
Yavaneswara for each Navamsa. The list of alphabets based on the listing of Yavaneswara as 


well the traditional classification considering the odd-even are tabulated separately in this book. 


AY CHR feGh SHNETe THN AHL THT: | 
AT gq TH qa THRE A THN AHy TH: |11 6 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


Axshara Prasna 85 


[Uf the Lagna is 3rd Navamsa of a movable sign then, first letter of the name could be) - ¢ for 
Aries, © for Cancer, d for Libra, & for Capricorn. (If the Lagna is 4th Navamsa of a movable 


sign then, first letter of the name could be) - ¥ for Aries, A for Cancer, F for Libra, A for 


Capricorn. ] 


HPRATEA BAGS THRACA THN AHL AHA! 
Aset SH foGh AHNACA THN AHL SHA 17 I 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[Uf the Lagna is 5th Navamsa of a movable sign then, first letter of the name could be) - HT for 
Aries, & for Cancer, #4 for Libra, ST for Capricorn. (If the Lagna is 6th Navamsa of a movable 


sign then, first letter of the name could be) - 5 for Aries, @ for Cancer, & for Libra, @ for 
Capricorn. ] 
Adat HH (SIH AHNETAS SHA AHL THT: | 
det HON fg THETA THR AHL FHT: Il 18 
(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[(If the Lagna is 7th Navamsa of a movable sign then, first letter of the name could be) - 3 for 
Aries, A for Cancer, § for Libra, of for Capricorn. (If the Lagna is 8th Navamsa of a movable 


sign then, first letter of the name could be) - & for Aries, T for Cancer, TU for Libra, $ for 
Capricorn. ] 


Since the 8th Navamsa from Aries is Scorpio ruled by Mars which indicate Ha¢T (-G-41-T-S), 
and since Scorpio is an even sign, the letters that should be ascribed to this Navamsa is @-". But 
the sloka suggests & for this Navamsa instead of the expected @. Similarly for Libra the 8th 


Navamsa falls in Taurus ruled by Venus which indicate Td4T (J-G-S1-S1-H), and since Taurus is 


Axshara Prasna 86 


an even sign, the letters that should be ascribed to this Navamsa is &-ST. But the sloka suggests 
a for this Navamsa instead of the expected & based on the traditional logic. 

set AHN UGH AHNETA THN AHL SHIT: | 

Sear NAAT TaD FEMNTSAET ATCA I 19 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[Cif the Lagna is 9th Navamsa of a movable sign then, first letter of the name could be) - oT for 


Aries, a for Cancer, UT for Libra, ¢ for Capricorn. This is told for Movable signs. Next I will 


speak about the 4 letters each that should be told for each of the Navamsas of Fixed signs] 


For the 9th Navamsa of Cancer which falls in Pisces an even sign, ruled by Jupiter indicating 


aa, instead of the expected U-€T the sloka lists A. Similarly for the 9th Navamsa of Capricorn 
which falls in Virgo an even sign, ruled by Mercury indicating Za41, instead of the expected 3-@ 


the sloka lists €. This as well as numerous other instances proves that Yavaneswara do not give 


any importance to the odd-even logic in proposing letters for each Navamsa. So I stop 
mentioning this odd-even logic and the expectations based on the traditional logic here. But it 
should be remembered that up to suggesting the Varga for each Navamsa, both the traditional 
logic as well as the Yavaneswara logic go hand-in-hand, and is fully in tune with each other. 

The letters that should be ascribed for all the nine Navamsas each of the Movable signs as per the 
traditional logic are tabulated below. This table will help you to understand the selected letters 
out of the same and deviations proposed by Yavaneswara. I won’t be providing similar 
tabulations based on traditional logic, for Fixed, and Movable signs, even though similar logic 


applies there too from the traditional perspective. 


Navamsa Aries Cancer Libra | Capricorn 
count 


1 H-T-F GX-A-F-W-T-A-S | T-S-| wH-8T 
WT 


Axshara Prasna 87 


-31-3-S-3-F-H_TV- 
0-37-3tt 


U-X-A-F-A-F-F-F 


H-31-3-8-3-D-H_V- 
¥-31-3t 


G-H | H-H1-F-$-3-F-H-V- 
V.3-3it 


a; re ie ieee | 


Fixed Sign 
qe want ead Gan: He THN FIC THT: | 


HTEATAHIAM ALA ATey MAGEATT HAT FEAL APT 20 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[Cif the Lagna is Ist Navamsa of a fixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - & for 


Taurus, @ for Leo, d for Scorpio, & for Aquarius. Like this starting from the 1st Navamsa (of 


Axshara Prasna 88 


the fixed sign) the intelligent astrologer should understand (the letters ascribed to each Navamsa 
of) Fixed signs.] 
Adel THN fea THK FHRATA SAINT THT | 


qe sant fea cHn: He SHR sae FH: [121 Il 
(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[(if the Lagna is 2nd Navamsa of a fixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - @ for 
Taurus, of for Leo, s for Scorpio, T for Aquarius. (If the Lagna is 3rd Navamsa of a fixed sign 
then, first letter of the name could be) - & for Taurus, ¢ for Leo, 5 for Scorpio, ¢ for Aquarius. ] 
qe want eas wan: He HHI FTC HHT: | 

Asat THAT (STa TH: He SHI TS AST: 122 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[Cif the Lagna is 4th Navamsa of a fixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - U for 
Taurus, °T for Leo, ST for Scorpio, 4 for Aquarius. (If the Lagna is 5th Navamsa of a fixed sign 
then, first letter of the name could be) - of for Taurus, 3 for Leo, § for Scorpio, A for Aquarius. | 
Ader SHIH) Tet OHA ET THR H)FILY THT: | 

qe sat qe TH: HS THY TIS HHT: M23 I 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[Cif the Lagna is 6th Navamsa of a fixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - @ for 
Taurus, UT for Leo, & for Scorpio, 4 for Aquarius. (If the Lagna is 7th Navamsa of a fixed sign 
then, first letter of the name could be) - ¥ for Taurus, J for Leo, T for Scorpio, # for Aquarius. ] 
SHRATSAIN Set GALA BHA TIS THT: | 

Hed Ft aqeicn Ve F Aeat S vaaiod Hei 24 | 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


Axshara Prasna 89 


[Uf the Lagna is 8th Navamsa of a fixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - 3 for 
Taurus, @ for Leo, for Scorpio, & for Aquarius. (If the Lagna is 9th Navamsa of a fixed sign 


then, first letter of the name could be) - € for Taurus, & for Leo, &f for Scorpio, 3 for Aquarius. ] 


Mixed Sign 
afaaictarat frepet THN: TSS TH: TAT FATT 
TAH) TA TTS THN Alorgay AEA WHT: 1125 Il 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[Uf the Lagna is lst Navamsa of a mixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - oT for 
Gemini, & for Virgo, 4T for Sagittarius, A for Pisces. ] 

Aad THN IH THAT AHR B)AAACAT § | 

Ader SH FETs THRAEA SH fAqIEay SAI 26 | 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[(If the Lagna is 2nd Navamsa of a mixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - U for 
Gemini, 4 for Virgo, ST for Sagittarius, for Pisces. (If the Lagna is 3rd Navamsa of a mixed 


sign then, first letter of the name could be) - & for Gemini, &f for Virgo, 5 for Sagittarius, & for 
Pisces. ] 
Asad AHA (IH SHAT SHR BFA THT: | 
dat THR Tat THN CARAT FAY HHT: [127 Il 
(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


[(if the Lagna is 4th Navamsa of a mixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - A for 


Gemini, & for Virgo, & for Sagittarius, 3 for Pisces. (If the Lagna is 5th Navamsa of a mixed 


Axshara Prasna 90 


sign then, first letter of the name could be) - 4 for Gemini, U for Virgo, V for Sagittarius, & for 
Pisces. ] 
WaATAA af TAY OATS LET A E aTHS FES AA 
Weave S AAT TA Tet G& aTHa FEA FAI28 ll 

(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[(f the Lagna is 6th Navamsa of a mixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - at for 


Gemini, UT for Virgo, @ for Sagittarius, a for Pisces. (If the Lagna is 7th Navamsa of a mixed 


sign then, first letter of the name could be) - @ for Gemini, a for Virgo, & for Sagittarius, ® for 
Pisces. ] 
Tied THPRAUTAED THETA fAQEA TA 
S aaeTA aes Gera S wae gf ares Pra T1291 

(Aksharakosa, Rf. BSBU) 
[Cif the Lagna is 8th Navamsa of a mixed sign then, first letter of the name could be) - of for 


Gemini, 31 for Virgo, 4T for Sagittarius, J for Pisces. (If the Lagna is 9th Navamsa of a mixed 


sign then, first letter of the name could be) - 3 for Gemini, 3 for Virgo, 2 for Sagittarius, a for 


Pisces.] 


This whole stuff for all signs exactly as told in the above slokas is tabulated below - 


Terre reer er. 
rere Perr, 


Pie dee ee eee eae er | 


Axshara Prasna 91 


at 


It is interesting to note the strict list of letters for each Navamsa provided by Yavaneswara 


instead of the traditional bit relaxed ‘groups’ that are ascribed to each of these Navamsas. 
Ud famem saa s) a aren fererese faerie Tea: | 
aay oeay w dfcattreaed Yatrafaercrad F130 i 

(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[Thus I have elaborated about alphabets present in the (first letter of the) name here as told by the 
ancients.” For all Signs (based on which the letters of the name is composed of) some scholars 
follow this method itself.] 


If only guessing the first letter of the name is done right, we can even think of guessing all the 


letters in the name. 
Conclusion 


Another method to find the name 
Hegier ar Hegeraiers: Tt: ToS TAH ATA fer Pearl 
Prpafasrerd faqrant ad AVA RPACTA U3 Il 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 


* Here the ancients as mentioned by Yawaneswara could be the sages such as Garga who spoke about 
the same. It should also be remembered that later day scholars such as Varahamihira too spoke about 
the varga lords in exactly the same way as told by Sage Garga etc. 


Axshara Prasna 92 


This sloka was bit difficult to understand and so we left it un-translated. 
Ahafeaawttaterstray ascaraean faster y 
e 2 yI 
AAA aaa 
Fact a KATO Maa Cary ATATY 1321 


(Aksharakosa, Rf.BSBU) 
[This method can be used in finding out the name of the following: A thing thought of, A thing 
spoken of, A person/thing who/which has left, A lost item, A person who is injured, romance 
with a woman, A food item, dream, determining the native’s riksha (sign/asterism), of a person, 
A man (woman or eunuch) etc.] 
Or in other words, this is a rule to be used in Prana and not in Jataka. Therefore trying to apply 
this rule in natal chart (Jataka), in an effort to derive the name of the native is almost certain to 


meet with failure. So be careful about it. 


Sher Gaeta AAA HATHA WATT I 


[Thus ends ‘Aksharakosa’ chapter in the text ‘Bodhi Yatra’ by Yavaneswara] 


Axshara Prasna 93 


Books of Reference: 


Penn romance [or 
: 


S 
R 
M 


Kerala Prasna Ratna By Keralan 


Prasnamarga (Sank.) by Panakkattu Narayanan P 
Nambutiri 


pm 
5 | Brihat Samhita by Varahamihira 


Brihat Samhita - Bhattolpala by Bhattolpala 


commentary 


- 000 - 


Axshara Prasna 94 


List of eBooks Published by Ancient Indian Astrology Foundation 


SI] | Book Name Author Translation & Commentary | Price in Price in 
Rs. USD 
7 


Skanda Hora God Skanda Sreenadh OG & Veneet Kumar | Rs.1000/- 
Lomasa Samhita Sreenadh OG & Veneet Kumar | Rs.500/- so | 


$ 

3 | Sri Saunakiya Vivaha | Sage Saunaka | Sreenadh OG & Veneet Kumar | Rs.250/- | $ 
i ioe all 

$ 

$ 


4 | Laghu Vivaha Patala Sreenadh OG & Veneet Kumar | Rs.150/- ss | 


10 
5 
a 
5 | Light on Ancient Sreenadh OG Rs.250/- 5 
Indian Astrology — 
Light on Ancient Sreenadh OG Rs.250/- 5 
Indian Astrology - 
4. 
2 
3 


$ 
Sasanka Saradeeya Sasanka Sarada | Sreenadh OG & Veneet Kumar | Rs.200/- | $ 
$ 


Lagna Varahi Varahamihira | Sreenadh OG & Veneet Kumar | Rs.100/- 
& Shankar G Hegde 


Akshara Prasna Sage Garga & | Sreenadh OG & Veneet Kumar | Rs.150/- | $ 
Sage 
Yavaneswara 
10 | Siva-Gauri Jataka God Siva & Sreenadh OG & Veneet Kumar | Rs.200/- | $4 
Parvati & Shankar G Hegde 


To purchase any eBook listed above please do contact Sreenadh OG (sreesog@yahoo.com) 


- 000 - 


Axshara Prasna 95 


About Ancient Indian Astrology Foundation 

Sreenadh OG is the founder of Ancient Indian Astrology Foundation, an active community, 
which does researches and contributes to ancient indian astrology. AIA website currently 
contains more than 500 articles and a free digital library having more than 1500 rare books and 
manuscripts. It is a unique venture in its own right. Both Sreenadh and Veneet are part of AIAF, 
and its research efforts into Ancient Indian Astrology. Feel free to contact us and work with 
AIAF. 

Ancient Indian Astrology Foundation 


Website:_www.ancientindianastrology.com 


Yahoo Group:_http://groups.yahoo.com/group/ancient_indian_astrology/ 


Email: sreesog@yahoo.com 


- 000 - 


Axshara Prasna 


96 


