THE CHRONOLOGY 


OF 


ANCIENT NATIONS 


AW ENGLISH VERSION OF THE 


ARABIC TEXT OF THE ATHAR.UL.BARIYA OF ALBIRUNY, 


OR 


(Ss ”*SVESTIGES OF THE PAST,” 


: connzoran AND REDUCED TO WRITING BY THE AUTHOR 
s! IN a.H. 390—], av. 1000. 


vue 


TRANSLATED AND EDITED, WITH NOTES AND INDEX, BY 


De. C. EDWARD SACHAU 


PROYES80R IN THE ROYAL UNIVERSITY OF BRRUIN. 


LONDON: 
PUBLISHED FOR THE ORIENTAL TRANSLATION FUND OF GREAT BRITAIN & IRELAND 


By WILLIAM H. ALLEN AND CO. 


18 WATERLOG PLACE, PALL MALL. 
PUBLISHERS TO THE IXDIA OFFICR. 


1879. 


PREFACE, 


fy was Sir Henry Rawlinson who first directed public 
attention to this work of Albirfini, in his celebrated article 
on Central Asia in the ‘Quarterly Review” for 1866, in 
which he gave some valuable information derived from his 
own manuscript copy, now the property of the British 
Museum. In offering the book, beth in text and trans- 
lation, to the learned world, I feel bound to premise 
that it is scarcely of a nature to attract the interest of 
the general reader. It appeals to minds trained in the 
schools of various sciences. Even competent scholars will 
find it no easy matter to follow our author through all the 
mazes of his elaborate scientific calculations. Containing, 
as it does, all the technical and historical details of 
the varions systems for the computation of time, invented 
and used by the Persians, Sogdians, Chorasmians, Jews, 
Syrians, Harrdénians, and Arabs, tngether with Greek 
traditions, it offers an equal interest to all those who study 
the antiquity and history of the Zoroastrian and Jewish, 
Christian and Muhammadan religions.* 

The work of Albirfni has the character of a primary 
source. Oriental philologists are accustomed to see one book 
soon superseded by another, Barhebraeus by Ibn-al’athir, 
Ibn-al’athir by Al-Tabari. Although it is likely enough 


* By Christions, I understand the Moelldte and Nestorian Churches, 
whilst the author does not seem to have known much mure of the 
Jacobites then the name. 


vi PREFAQE. 


that on many subjects in this book we shall one day find 
better authenticated and more ancient information, I 
venture to say, that, as a whole, it will scarcely ever be 
superseded Jt is a standard work in Oriental literature, 
and has been recognised as such by the East itself, repre- 
senting in ita peouliar line the highest development of 
Oriental scholarship. Perhaps we shall one day find the 
literary sources themselves from which Albirfinf derived his 
information, and shall be enabled to dispense with his 
extracts fre.a them. But there are other chapters, ¢.g. 
those on the calendars of the ancient inhabitants of Central 
Asia, regarding which we shall, in all likelihood, never find 
any more ancient information, because the author had 
learned the subject from hearsay among a population 
which was then on the eve of dying out. As the first 
editor and translator of a book of this kind, I venture to 
claim the indulgenceof the reader. Generations of scholars 
have toiled to carry the understanding of Herodotus to 
that point where it is now, and how muoh is wanting still! 
The work of generations will be required to do full justice 
to Albirini. A olassioal philologist can edit a Greek text in 
a correct form, even though he may have no complete 
understanding of thesubject-matter in all possible relations. 
Not so an Arabio philologist. The ambiguity of the Arabio 
writing—prohk dolor /—is the reason why a manuscript 
expresses only three-quarters of the author's meaning, 
whilst the editor is compelled to supply the fourth quarter 
from his own knowledge and discernment. No number in 
any chronological table can be considered correct, as long 
as it is not proved by computation to be so, and even in 
the simplest historical nurrative the editor and translator 
may most lementebly go astray in his interpretation, if 
there is something wrong wita the method of his research. 


PREFAOE. vii 


I have boldly attacked the sometimes rather enigmatio 
style of the author, and if 1 have missed the mark, if the 
bewildering variety and multiplicity of the subject-matter 
have prevented me reaching the very bottom of every 
question, I must do what more or less every Oriental 
author does at the end of his work,—bumbly ask the gentle 
reaver to pardon my error and to correct it. 


I. The Author, 


The full name of the author is Aid-Raihin Muhammad 
b, ‘Ahmad Albiranit. Ee quotes himself as Abiéi-Raihén 
(vide p. 184, 1. 29), and so he is generally called in Eastern 
literature, more rarely Albvirdni. 

The latter name means, literally, evtrancous, being a 
derivative from the Persian 59> which means the ouéside 
as @ noun, and outside as a preposition. In our time the 
word is pronounced Birin (or Beevoon), eg. in Teheran, 
but the vowel of the first syllable is a yét-majhil, which 
means that in more ancient times it was pronounced Bérin 
(or Bayroon). This statement resis on-the authority of 
the Persian lexicographers. That the name was pronounced 
in this way in. Central Asia about the author’s time, we 
learn from an indisputable statement regarding our author 
from the pen of Alsam‘ini, a philologist and biographer of 
high repute, who wrote only one hundred years after the 
author’s death (vide Introduotion to my edition of the text, 
p- Xviii.). 

He was a native of Khwirizm, or Chorasmia, the modern 
Hhhiva; to speak more accurately, a native either of a suburb 
(Bérén) of the capital of the oountry, both of which bore 
the same name Khwdériam, or of the country-district (also 
called Bérin) bolonging to the capital. 

Albirini was born 4.z. 362, 8. Dhd-alhijja (4.p. 973, 


vil PREFACE, 


4th September), and died a.n. 440, 2. Rajah (ap. 1048, 
11th December), aged seventy-five years. 

The first part of his life he seems to have spent in 
Khwirizm, where he enjoyed the protection of the House 
of Ma’min, the rulers of the country. Originally vassals 
of the kings of Central Asia of the House of Sémdn, they 
became independent when the star of their masters began 
to sink, 7.¢. between a.H. 384-390. They were, however, not 
to play a great part in the history of the East, for so early as 
4.8. 407 their power was crushed by the great Mahmdd of 
Ghazna, and their dominions annexed to his empire. Like 
Albirfn?, other scholars also of high standing received 
Protection and favours at the oourt of the Ma’mint 
princes. 

The author is known to have lived some years also in 
Jurjin, or Hyrcania, on the southern shores of the Caspian 
sea, under the protection, and perhaps at the court, of 
Kabis ben Washmgir Shams-alma‘éli, who ruled over 
Hyrcania and the adjoining countries at two dierent 
periods, a.H. 866-371 and 388-408. To this prince ha has 
dedicated the present book, apparently about a.a. 390-391, 
(4.p. 1000). 

During the years a.H, 400-407 he stayed again in his 
native country at the court of Ma’min b. Ma’mtu, as his 
friend and counsellor. He was a witness of the rebellion 
that broke out 4.4. 407, of the murder of Ma’mitn, and of 
the conquest of the country by Mahmfid of Ghazna, who, 
on returning, oarried off him and other scholars to Afghan- 
istan in the spring of a.H. 408. 

Among his numerous works, we find mentioned a 
‘Chronicle of Khwérizm,” in whioh he probably had re- 
corded all the traditions relating to the antiquity of hisnative 
country, and more especially the history of those events of 


PREFAOE. ix 


which he had himself becn a witness. This work seems to 
be lost. However, an extract of it has come down to us 
as the last part of the great chronicle of the royal house 
of Mahmfd, oomposed by Albaihaki, the editior of which 
we owe to the industry and learning of the late W. H. 
Morley (‘ Bibliotheca Indica,” Calcutta, 1862, pp. 834, &o.). 

With 4.5. 408 begins a new period in the author’s life, 
when he enlarged the cirole of hie researches on mathe- 
matics, astronomy, geography, chronology, and natural 
sciences by his study of India, its geography and history, 
of the language and literature, manners and customs, of 
the Hindds, It was the period when he gathered all those 
materials which he deposited towards the end of his life in 
his famous ‘ Memoir on India.” 

After Albfc(int had settled in Ghazna, he paid at least 
one more visit to his native country. He died, probably, at 
Ghazna. Whether he travelled much in other countries 
besides India, I have no means of proving. From the 
present book we can only infer that, besides his native 
country and Hyrcania, he also knew parts of Media, e.g. 
Rai (Rhaga). 


I. His Work, 


Albirftnt calls his work Aldthdér Albdkiya ‘an-il-Kardu 
Alkhéliya, i.e. monuments or vestiges of generations of the 
past that have been preserved up to the author’s timo, 
meaning by snonuments or vestiges the religious institutes 
of various nations and seots, founded in more anoient 
times, and, more or less, still practised and adhered to by 
the Oriental world about a.p. 1000. 

With admirable industry the author gathers whatever 
traditions he can find on every single fact, he confronts 
them with each other, and inquires with critical acumen 


- #HHFAOR. 


into the apecial merits or demerits of each single tradition. 
Mathematical accuracy is his lest gauge, snd wherever the 
nature of a tradition admits of such a gauge, he is sure to 
verify it by the help of oarefal mathematical caloulation. 
To spesk in goneral, there is much of the modern spirit and 
method of critical research in our author, and in this respect 
he is @ phenomenon in the history of Eastern learning 
and literature. Authors of the first centuries of the Hijra 
sometimes betray a great deal of common sense and good 
method, sometimes also unmistakable traces of a marked 
individuality, whilst the later centuries are oharacterised by 
the very opposite. Then the author entirely disappears 
behind his book ; all literary work sinks down to the leval 
of imbecile compilation from good and bad sources; the 
understanding of the life and literature of the preceding 
centuries becomes rare and distorted. Common sense has 
gone never to return, and very seldom do we meet with a 
trace of scientific method or of the individuality of the 
author. 

The fourth century is the turning-point in the history of 
the spirit of Islam, and the establishment of the orthodox 
faith about 500 sealed the fate of independent research for 
ever. But for Alash‘art and Alghazzfli the Arabs might 
have been a nation of Galileos, Keplers, and Newtons. 

Originally I intended to give a complete exposé of the 
sources whence Albirfint has drawn his manifold informa- 
tion, but the material hitherto available for researohes on 
the literary history of the east is still so acanty that I 
had to desist from my plan. This applies in partioular to 
the east of the Khalifate, to Khurisin. We are com- 
paratively well informed regarding the literature of 
Mesopotamia, Syria, Egypt, and the farther west of Islam, 
: whilst we have very little information regarding the scien- 


PREFAOR, xi 


tific and literary life east of Bagdad as it developed itself 
during the first three centuries of Abbasida rule, under the 
protection of the imperial governors and the later indo- 
pendent princes, ,¢.g. the House of Simian. 

It isto be hoped that Central Asia and Afghanistan, 
when once in the grasp of European influence, will yield 
us rioh collections of valuable literary monumonta. 
Hitherto manuscripts coming from those countries are 
seldom met with in the great libraries of Europe. 

As for the written material which the author had at his 
disposal, he quotes many a book of which I elsewhere 
can scarcely find a trace. All the books, e.g. on Persian 
and Zoroastrian history and traditions, composed in early 
times, not only by Zoroastrians but also by Muslims, 
converts from the Zoroastrian creed, are altogether un- 
known in Europe; and it seems very probable that the 
higoted people of Jater times have spared very little of this 
kind of literature, which to them had the intolerable 
smell of filthy idolatry. 

As regards Persian history, Albirdni had an excellent 
predecessor in Aliafahint, whom he follows frequently, and 
whom he was not able to surpass in many points. 

From oral information Albirfint seems to have learned 
all he knows of the chronology and calendar of tho 
Zoroastrian populations of Persia, of his native country, 
and of Sogdiana (or Bukhéré). In his time the majority 
of the country-people still adhered to Ahuramazda, and in 
most towns there must still have been Zoroastrian commu- 
nities, so that Albirfint did not lack the opportunity for 
studying the mannors and institutes of the then existing 
followers of Zoroaster. Unfortunately, the Zoroastrian 
creed had lost its clerioal and political unity and constitu- 
tion. he people practised their oustoms as they had seen 


{ 
i 
i 


xn PRBEPAOE, 


their parents do, but they had no longer a correct under- 
standing of their origin and meaning. Certainly a Mobe- 
dan-Mobed of the time of Ardashfr B&bekén would have 
been able to give 8 more acourate and complete account of 
Zoroastrian life and religion; but still we must be thankful 
to Albirdni for his having preserved te posterity the festal 
oalendars as used by Zoroastriane of his time when their 
religion was on the eve of dying out. 

To oral information I ascribe also the author’s admirable 
knowledge of the Jewish calendar. Jewish scholars will 
be able to say whether his informants were Ananites 
(Karaites) or Rabbanites. My critics do not seem to bave 
noticed that Albirini, a Muslim, is the fret of all the 
scholars we know who has composed a scientifio system of 
the Jewish chronology. He is much anterior to Moses 
Maimonides, also to Abraham. bar Chiyya, being a contem- 
porary of R. Sherirf and Hai Géén, who seem to play a 
prominent part in the history of Jewish chronology. 

With Nestorian Christians he must have been acquainted, 
as he speake of the Nestorian communities of his native 
country, His report of the Melkite feasts, &o., may have 
been communicated to him by Nestorian priests from Syriao 
ecurces, 

Albirfint wrote both in Arabio and Persian, as he has 
edited his ““Kit&b-altafhim” in both languages. There is 
a@ possibility of his having had a smattering of Hebrew and 
Syriac (vide pp. 18, 19), but of Greek he seems to have 
been ignorant, and whatever he relates on the authority of 
Greek authors—Ptclemy, Galen, Eusebius, &o.—must 
have been communivated to him by the ordinary chaanel 
of Syriac-Arabio translation. His study of Sanskrit falle 
into the latter half of his life. 

From occasional notes in the book a description of the 


PREFACE. xiii 


author’s oharacter may be gleaned. He seems to have 
been a truth-loving man, attacking all kinds of shams vith 
bitter saroasms, He was not without a humoristio voin, 
and his occasional ironical remarks offer a ourious contrast 
to the pervading earnestness of the tenor of his speech. 
As 9, Muslim he inclined towards the Shi‘a, but ho was net 
a bigoted Muslim. He betrays a strong aversion to the 
Arabs, the destroyers of Sasanian glory, and a marked 
predilection for all thatis of Persian or Eranian nationality. 
Muslim orthodoxy had not yet become so powerftl as to 
imperil the life of a man, be he Muslim or not, who would 
study other religions and publicly declare in favour of 
them. Dakiki, a poet not long anterior to Albirint, a 
favonrite of the Muslim house of Simian, was allowed to 
sing — 
OF all that ia good and bad in the world, 
Dakiki has chosen four things to himself: 


A woman’s lips as red as rubies, the melody of the lute, 
The blood-coloured wine, and the religion of Zoroaster.” 


Not long afterwards, at the court of the great Mabmtd 
of Ghazna, these verses would probably have proved fatal 
to their author. 

Habent sua fata libellt, and I may add, the fate of this 
book, from the time of its composition till the time when I 
began to study it, has not been a fortunate one. Only a 
few were able to understand it, few had an interest in 
having it copied. 

In the form in which I offer the book to the reader it is 
ncé complete. Many most essential parts, both large and 
small, are missing, ¢.g. the chapter on Zoroaster, a most 
deplorable loss, arising probably from Muslim bigotry. 
However, J. should think it does not require an apology 
from iv to Lave edited the book in this mutilated form in 


Dye 5k ae 


xiv PREFAOE. 


which I have found it in the manusoripts. Should the 
favour of time bring to light one day a complete copy, I 
shall be happy if ciroumstanoes will allow me at once to 
edit the hitherto missing parts in text and translation. 

The basis of my edition consists of two manuscripts of 
the seventeenth and one of the nineteenth century, all full 
of faults, and—what is worse !—agreeing with each other 
almost in every particular. In fact, all three copies repre- 
sent one and the same original. Fortunately a chronolo- 
gical work offers this advantage, that in many oases 
mathematical examination enables the editor to oorreot the 
blunders of the tradition, ¢.g. in the numerous tahles. 

My notes are in the first place intended to give the calou- 
lations on which tho tables rest. Besides, they contain 
oontrihutions to the explications of certain difficult passages, 
short infurmation on points of literary history, and, lastly, 
a few remarks on the text and corrections. 

For all other introductory questions I refer the reader to 
the German preface to my edition of the text. 

In offeriug my translation to the English reader, I desire 
to thank my friend, the Rev. Robert Gwynne, Vioar of 
St. Mary’s, Soho, London, who not only oorrected the 
whole manuscript, but also read the proof-sheets of the 
entire book. 


EDWARD SACHAU. 


Berlin, 24th May, 1879. 


CONTENTS. 


Transtator’s PREerace 


Prerack - 
Onarter I.—On the Nature of Day and Night, of their Totality 
and of their Beginnings 


Caarrzz II.—On the Nature of that which is composed of Daya, 
viz. Months and Years 


Cuaprer II.—On the Nature of the Eras and the different 
Opinions of the Nations regarding them 

Cuartgr IV.—The different Opinions of various Nations re- 
garding the King called Dhi-al-karnaini or Bicornutus 

Cxarren V.—On the Nature of the Months which are used in 
the preceding Eras 


Cuarten VI.—On the Derivation of the Eras from exch other, 
and on the Chronological Dates, relating to the Commence- 
ments and the Durations of the Reigns of the Kings, 
according to the various Traditions 


Cuarrzz VII.—On the Cyclee and Year-pointa, on the Mdléds of 
the Years and Months, on their various Qualities, and on 
the Leap-monthe both in Jewish and other Years - - 


Caarree VII.—On the Eras of the Peendo-prophets and their 
Communities who were deluded by them, the curse of the 
Lord be upon them Fy 


Cuarrer [X.—-On the Festivals in the Months of the Persians - 
Crarrer X.—On the Fostivals in the Months of the Sughdians - 
Cuarrzse XI.—On the Festivals in the Months of the Khwiaris. 


Page 


li 


16 


84 


141 


186 
199 
220 


223 


xvi CONTENTS. 


Cuartrr XII.—On Khwirizm.Shah’s Reform of the Khwirism- 
ian Festal Calendar - - - - - : 
Cuarrer X11.—On the Daya of the Greek Calendar as known 
both among the Greeks and other Nationa - : * 
Cnarrer XIV.—Of the Festivals and Fuat-daye in the Months of 
the Jewa ss. A ie = 2 i s 
Cuarrer XV.—On the Festivals and Memorable Daye of the 
Syrian Calendar, celebrated by the Melkite Christians = - 


Cuarter XVI—On the Christian Lent, and on those Feaste and 
Festive Days which depend upon Lent and revolve parallel 
with it through the Year, regarding which all Christian 
sects agree among each other - - - : 

Cuarrer XVII.—On the Festivals of the Nestorian Christians, 
their Memorial and Fast Daye - - - - 

Cuaptze XVILL—On the Feasts of the ancient Magians, and on 
the Fast and Feast Daya of the Sabians = - - 


Caarren XIX.—On the Fostivals of the Arabe in the time of 


Heathendom Fs - - 7 s : 
Caarter XX.—-On the Festivals of the Muelime . - 
Caraprgn XXI—On the Lunar Stations, their rising and setting, 

and on their Images - - . : 
AnwotaTi0ns - . - - . 7 A 


Inprex - - 7 ie 


Page 
229 


231 


268 


ERRATA. 


p. 883, delete the first fico lines and inevrt— 
Sactr, Perhaps identical with tho SaPecpot of Byzantine authors, from whom 
Siberia derived its name. 
p. 451, cob 2, lnst line, delete Chiun, 266, 10. 
p. 452, col, 1, lino 1, after Chinese insert 266, 10. 
p. 460, after bine 12 ivsert— 
Poisou-monutain (rarofied atmosphere), 263, 17. 
P. 462, col, 2, after Hine 18 insert— 
Tibetans, 263, 17. 


DIRECTION TO THE BINDER. 
Table of Kebisth = - . . . to face p. 154. 


10 


PREFACE, 


IN THE NAME OF GND, THE COMPASSIONATE, THE MERCIFUL. 


Prats be to God who is high above all things (lit. those which ara 
unlike, aud those which are like to each other), and blessing be on 
Muhammad, the elected, the best. of all created beings, and on his family, 
the guides of righteousness and truth. 

One of the exquisite plans in God’s management of the affairs of his 
creation, one of the glorious benefits which he has bestowed upon the 
entirety of his creatures, is that categorical decree of his, not to leave in 
his world any period without a just guide, whom ha constitutes as a 
protector for his creatures, with whom to take refuge in unfortunate and 
sorrowful cases and accidents, and upon whom to devolve their affairs, 
when they seem indissolubly perplexed, so that the order of the world 
should rest upon—and its existence be supported by—his genius. And 
this decree (that the affairs of mankind should be governed by a prophet) 
has been settled upon them as a religious duty, aud has been linked 
together with the obedience towards God, and the obedience towards his 
Prophet, through which slone a reward in future life may ha obtained— 
in accordance with the word of him, who is the truth aud justice—and 
his word is judgment and decree, “O ya believers, obey God, aud obey 
the prophets, and those among yourselves who are invested with the 
command.” (Stra iv. 62.) 

Thorefore, thanks be to God for those blessings, which he has bestowed 
upon his servants, by exalting our master, the commander, the prince, 
the glorious aud victorious, the benefactor, Shoms-alma‘ilt, may God 


aLbizoni. 


give hima long 1:*z,and give duration to his power and majesty, preserve 
through the couree of time bis excellence and his splendour, protect his 
wholo house (tit, the areas inside and outside his house), prostrate all 
those who envy him, and all his enemies, (by exalting bim) as a guide, 
who justly rules over his creaturcs, who furtbers religion and truth, who 
fights for the altar and the hearth of the Muslims, and who protects their 
country against the mischief of evil-doers. Aud God bas supported bim 
by giving him a character similar to that with which he has blessed his 
Prophet, the bearer of his revelation; for be, whose name he praised, has 
said: “Fo thee bas been given a high character.” (Sira lrviii. 4.) 
How wonderfully has he, whose name ia to be exalted and extolled, 
combined with the glory of his noble extraction the graces of his generous 
character, with his valiant sou] all laudable qualities, such as piety and 
righteousness, carefalness in defending and observing the rites of re- 
ligion, justice and equity, humility and boneficence, firmness and deter. 
mination, EberaJity and gentleness, the talent for ruling and govorning, 
for managing and deciding, and ether qualities, which no fancy could 
comprehend, and no human being enumerate! And how should a man 
wonder at this, it being undeniable that God has the power to combino 
the whole world in one individual (i.e. to create a microcosmos)! There- 
fore, may God permit the Muslims still for a long period to enjoy the 
kindnesa ‘of ‘his intentions, the ingenuity of his plano, and his evidently 
merciful and pitiful mind, with which he cares for them! May they from 
day to day derive more benefite from the perpetual shade of his majesty, 
to which they are accustomed! And may God assist by his kindness 
and mercy, high and low, to fulfil the works of obedience towards God, 
which are imposed upon them | 

Dedication.—The Author's Methcd.—A learned man once asked me 
rogarding the eras used by different nations, and regarding tho difference 
of their roote, i.e. the epochs where they begin, and of their branches, ie. 
the months and years, on which they are based; further regarding the 
causes which led to such difference, and the famous festivale and com- 
Muemoration-days for certain times and events, and regarding whatever 
else one nation practises differently from another. He urged me to give 
an explanation, the clearest possible, of all this, so as to be easily intelli- 
gible to the mind of the reader, and to free him from the nezessity of 
wading through widely ecattered booke, and of consulting their authors. 
Now I was quite aware that this was a task difficult to handle, an object 
not easily to be attained or managed by anyone, who wants to treat it as 
a matter of logical sequence, regarding which the mind of the student is 
not agitated by doubt. However, from the majesty of our master, the 
prince, the glorious and victorious, the bvaefactor, Shams.alma‘ali—may 
God make his power to endure!—I derived strength in exerting my 
capzbilities, and trying to do my utmosi in order to explain the -vhole 
eubject on the basis of that information which I have gathered either as 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


40 


PREFAOE. 3 


an ear- or eye-witness, or by cogitation and study. Besides, I was 
encouraged by that robe of blessed service, in which I have dressed 
myself, to compose such an explanation for him, who occupies a high 
throne, that he may see herein a new sign of my service, and that thereby 
I may obtain the garments of such a glory, the memory and splendour of 
which will last as my heirloom in posterity through the flood of ages and 
generations. If, therefore, he—whose noble mind may God preserve !— 
will favour his servant by overlooking his audacity, and accepting his 
excuses, he follows the right idea, if it pleases God. And now I 
commence and say : 

The best and nearest way leading to that, regarding which I have been 
asked for information, is the knowledge of the history and tradition of 
former nations and generation's, because the greatest part of it consists 
of matters, which have come down from them, and of remains of their 
customs and institutes. And this object cannot be obtained by way of 
ratiocination with philosophical notions, or of inductions based upon the 
observations of our senses, but solely by adopting the information of those 
who have a written tradition, and of the members of the different 
religions, of the adherents of the different doctrines and religious sects, 
by whom the institutes in question are used, and by making their opinions 
a basis, on which afterwards to build up a system; besides, we must 
compare their traditions and opinions among themselves, when we try to 
establish our system. But ere that we must clear our mind from all 
those accidental circumstances which deprave most men, from all causes 
which are liable to make people blind against the truth, e.g. inveterate 
custom, party-spirit, rivalry, being addicted to one’s passions, the desire 
to gain influence, etc. For that which I have mentioned, is the nearest 
way you could take, that leads to the true end, and the most efficient help 
towards removing all the clouds of uncertainty and doubt, which beset 
the subject. It is impossible in any other way to reach the same purpose, 
notwithstanding the greatest care and exertion. On the other hand, we 
confess that it is by no means easy to act upon that principle and that 
method, which we have laid down, that on the contrary from its recondite 
nature, and its difficulty, it might seem to be almost unattainable—on 
account of the numerous lies which are mixed up with all historical 
records and traditions. And those lies do not all on the face of it appear 
to be impossibilities, so that they might be easily distinguished and 
eliminated. However, that which is within the limits of possibility, has 
heen treated as true, as long as other evidence did not prove it to be 
false. For we witness sometimes, and others have witnessed before us, 
physical appearances, which we should simply declare to be impossible, 
if something similar were related from a far remote time. Now the life 
of man is not sufficient to learn thoroughly the traditions of one of the 
many nations. How, therefore, could he learn the traditions of all of 
them? That is impossible. 


p. 5. 


4 ALBfROénf, 


The matter standing thns, it is our duty to proceed from what is near 
to the mora distant, from what is known to that which is less known, to 
gather ths traditions from those who have reported them, to correct tham 
as much as possible, and to leave the rest as it is, in order to make our 
work help him, who seeks truth and loves wisdom, in making mdependent 
researches on other subjects, and guide him to find out that which was 
denied to us, whilst we were working at this subject, by the will of God, 
and with his help. 

~~ In confermity with our plan, we must proceed to explain the nature of 
day and night, of their totality, ic. the astronomical day, and assumed 
beginning. For day and night are to the months, years, and orde, what 
one is for the numerals, of which they are composed, and into which they 
are resolved. By an accurate hnowledge of day and night, the progress 
towards learning that which is composed of them and built npon them, 


becomes easy. 


10 


10 


20 


30 


Hi 


CHAPTER I. 


ON THE NATURR OF DAY AND NIGHT, OF THEIR TOTALITY AND OF 
THEIEZ BEGINNINOS. 


I sar: Day and night (2c. vux@ijyepov) are one revolution of the aun in 
the rotation of the universe, starting from and returning to a circle, 
which has been assumed as the beginning of this same Nychthemeron, 
whichsoever circle it may be, it heing determined by general consent. 
This civele ia a “ great” circle; for each great cirele is dynamically an 
horizon. By “dynamically” (77 dwdpe), I mean that it (this circle) 
may be the horison of any place on the earth. By the “rotation of the 
universe,” I mean the motion of the celestial sphere, and of all tiat is 
in it, which we observe going round on its two poles from east to west. 

The Setting of the Sun as the beginning of the Day.—Now, the 
Arabs assumed aa the beginning of their Nychthemeron the point where 
the setting sun intersects the circle of the horizon, Therefore their 
Nychthemeron extends from the moment when the aun disappears from 
the horizon til] his disappearance on the following day. They were 
induced to adopt this system by the fact that their mouths are based 
upon the course of the moon, derived from her various motions, and 
that the beginnings of the months were fixed, not by calculation, but 
by the appearance of the new moons. Now, full moon, the appearance 
of which is, with them, the beginning of the month, becomes visible 
towards sunset. Therefore their night preceded their day; and, therv- 
fore, it is their custom to let the nights precede the days, when they 
mention them in connection with the names of the seven days of 
the week. 

Those who herein agree with them plead for this system, saying that 
darkness in the order (of the creation) precedea light, and that light 
suddenly came forth when darkness existed already; thwt, therefore, 
that which was anterior in existence is the most suitable te be adopted 


p. 6. 


6 Ausinont. 


as the beginning. And, therefore, they considered absence of motion 
as superior to motion, comparing rest and tranquillity with darkness, 
and because of the fact that motion is always produced by some want 
and necessity; that weariness follows upon the necessity; that, there- 
fore, wearmess is the consequence of motion. Lastly, because rest (the 
absence of motion), when remaining in he elements for a time, does not 
produes decay; whilst motion, when remaining in the elements and 
taking hold of them, produces corruption. As instances of this they 
adduce earthquakes, storma, waves, &c. 

The Rising of the Sun as the beginning of the Day.—As to the 
other nations, the Greeks and Romans, and those who follow with them 
tho like theory, they hava agreed among themselves that the Nych- 
themsron should be reckoned from the moment when the sun rises 
above the eastern horizon till the sams moment o” tha following day, 
as their months are derived by calculation, and do not depend upon the 
phases of the moun or any other star, and as ths months begin with 
the beginning of the day. Therefore, with them, the day precedes the 
night; and, in favour of this view, they argus that light is an Zune, 
whilst darkness ia a Non-ene. Those who think that light was anterior 
in existence to darkness consider motion as superior to rest (the absenca 
of motion), because motion isan Fazs, not a Non-exs—ia life, not death. 
They meet the arguments of their opponents with similar ones, saying, ¢.g. 
that heaven is something more excellent than the earth; that a working 
man and a young man are the healthiest ; that running water does not, 
like standing water, become putrid. 

Noon or Midnight as the beginning of the Day.—tThe greater 
part and the most eminent of the learned men among astronomers 
reckon the Nychthomoron from the moment when the sun arrives on the 
plane of tha meridian till ths same moment of the following day. This 
isan intermediate view, Therefora their Nychthemera begin from the 
visible half of the plane of the meridian. Upon this system they hava 
built their calculation in the astronomical tables (the Canons), and have 
thereby derived the placcs of the stars, along with their equal motions 
and their corrected places, in the almanacks (iit. year-boohs). Other 
astronomers prefer the invisibls half of ths plane of the meridicn, and 
begin, therefore, their day at midnight, as eg. the author of the Canon 
(2tj) of Shabriyfrin Shih. This does not alter the case, as both 
methods are based upon tks same principle, 

People were induced to prefer the meridian to the horizon by many 
circumstances. One was, that they had discovered that the Nych- 
themem vary, and are not always of the same length; a variation 
which, during tha eclipses, is clearly apparent even to the senses, 

The reason of this variation is the fact’ that the couras of the sun in 
the ecliptic varies, it being accelerated one time and retarded another ; 
and that tho single sections of tha ocliptic cross the circles (the horizons) 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE NATURE OF DAY AND NIGHT. 7 


at a different rate of velocity. Therefore, in order to remove that 
variation which attaches to the Nychthemera, they wanted some kind 
ef equation; and the eqration ef the Nychthemera hy means ef the 
rising of the ecliptic above the meridian is constant and regular every- 
where on the earth, because this circle is one of the horizons of the 
globe which ferm aright angle (with the meridian); and because its 
conditions aud qualities remain the same in every part of the carta. 
This quality they did not find in the herizontal circles, for they vary 
for each place; and every latitude has a particular horizon of its own, 

10 diffsrent from that of any cther placc, and because the single sections 
of the ecliptic cross the horizons at a different rate of velocity. To use 
the horizens (fer the equation of the Nychthemera) is a proceeding both 
imperfect and intricite. 

Another reason why they preferred the meridian to the horizon is 
this, that the distances between the meridians of different places 
correspond to the distances of their meridians on the equator and the 
paralle) circles ; whilst the distances between the herizental cireles arc 
the same with the addition of their northern and southern declination. 
An accurate deseription of everything eonnected with stars and their 

20 places is not possible, except by means of that direction which depends 
upon the meridian. This direction is called “longitude,” whieh has 
vothing in common with the cther direction, which depends upon the 
horizon, and is called “latitude.” 

Therefore they have chosen that circle which might serve as a regular 
and constant basis of- their caleulations, and have nat used others; 
although, if they had wished to use the horizons, it would have been 
possible, and would have ted them to the same results as the meridian, 
hnt only after along and roundabeut process. And it is the greatest 
mistake possible purposely to deviate from the direct route in order to 

80 go by a long roundabout. 

Day, Night, and the Duration of the Day of Faet.—This is the 
general definition of the day whieh we give, the night being included. 
Now, if we proceed to divide and to distinguish, we have to state that 
the words “ Yaum” (day) in its restricted signification, and “ Nakdr” 
(day), mean the same, viz., the time from the rising of the bedy of the 
sun till its setting. On the other hand, sight means the time from the 
setting of the bedy of the sun till its rising. Thus thess twe terme are 
used umong all nations by general consent, nobedy disputiug their 
meanings,oxeept one Muslim Jawycr, whe has defined the beginning of 

40 the day te bs the rise of dawn, and its eud to be the setting ef the sun, 
because he presumed that the day and the duration of fasting were 
identical. For this view of his hs argues from the follewing word of 
God (Stra ii. 183): “Eat and drink till you eau distinguish a white 
thread from a black thraad at the light of datvm, Thereupon fast the 
entire day till the night.” Now, he hos maintained that these two terms 


p.8. 


8 ALBIBON?, 


(dawn and night) are the two limits of the day (beginning and end). 
Between this view, however, and this verses of the Coran there is not the 
slightest connection whatsoever. For if ths beginning of fasting was 
identical with the beginning of ths day, his (@od’s) definition of some- 
thing that is quite evident and well known to everyhody, im such terms, 
would ba like a pains-taking attempt to explain something void of sonsa, 
Likewise he hae not defined the end of day and the beginning of night 
in similar terms, because this is generally known among all mankind. 
God orders that fasting should commence at tke rise of dawn; hut the 
end of fasting he does not describe in a similar way, hut simply says 
that it should end at “night,” hecause everybody knows that this means 
the time when the globe of tha sun disappears. Hence it is evident that 
God, by the words of tho first sentonce (i.¢. eat and drink till you can 
distinguish a white thread from a black thread at the light of dawn), 
does not mean the beginning of day. 

A further proof of +he correctness of our interpretation is the word of 
God (Sidra ii. 183): “It has been declared as lawful to you during the 
night of fasting to have intercourse (Ht. to speak obscene things) with 
your wiver,” &c., to the passage, “ Thersupon fast the entire day till the 
night.” Thereby he extends the right of having intercourss with one’s 
wife, and of eating and drinking, overa certain limited time, not over 
the entire night. Likowise it had been forbidden to Muslims, before 
this verse had been revealed, to eat and drink after night-prayer (the 
time when the darkress of night commsncesy. And still people did not 
reckon their fasting by days and parts of the night, but simply by days 
(although tho time of fasting was much longer than the day). 

Now, if people eay that God, in this verse (Stra ii. 183), wanted to 
teach mankind the beginning of the day, it would necessarily follow 
that hefore that moment they were ignorant of the beginning of day and 
night, which is simply absurd. 

Now, if people say the legal day is different from the natural day, 
this is nothing but a diffsrence in words, end the calling something by 
a name, which, according to the usage of the language, means something 
else. And, hesides, it must hs considered that there is not the slightest 
mention in ths verse of the day and of its beginning. We keep, how- 
ever, aloof from pertingacious disputation on this subject, and we are 
willing to agree with our oppononts as to the expressions if they will 
agree with us regarding the subject-matter. 

And how could wa believe a thing ths contrary of which is evident to 
our senses? For evening-twilight in the west corresponds to morning- 
dawn in the east ; both eriso from tha same cause, and are of the same 
aature. If, therefore, the rise of morning.dawn were the beginning of 
the day, the disappearance of svening-twilight would be ita end. And 
actually some Shiites have beeu compelled to adupt such u doctrine. 

Let us take it for granted that those’ who do not agyres with us 


10 


20 


80 


10 


80 


ON THD NATURE OF DAY AND NIGHT. 9 


regarding that which we have previously explained, agree with us as to 
the fact that twice a year night and day are equal—once in spring and 
ones in autumn, Farther, that he thinks, like us, that we have the 
longest day when the sun stands nearest to the north pole; the shortest 
day when the sun is at the geatest distance from the north pole; that 
the shortest summer night is equal to the shortest winter day; and that 
the same meaning is expressed by the two verses of the Ceran: “ God 
makes night enter into day, and he makes day enter into night” 
(Stra xxxv. 14), and “He wraps night around day, and he wraps day 
around night” (Sira xxxix. 7). Now, if they do not know this, or 
pretend not to know it, at all events they cannot help admitting that 
the first half of the day is six hours long, and likewise the latter half. 
Against this they cannot pretend to he blind, hecause of the well known 
and well authenticated tradition which relates to the prerogatives of 
those who hasten to the moaque on a Friday, and which shows that 
their wages are the highest, although their time of work in the six hours 
from the heginning of the day till the time of the decline of the sun is 
the shortest. This is to be understood of the Hore temporales oblique 
(Sper xotprxad), not of the Hore recta, which are also called egutnoctiales 
(pas tonyeepivai). 

Now, if we should comply with their wish, and acknowledge their 
assertions as truth, we should have to helieve that an equinox takes 
Place when the sun moves on either side of the winter solstice (ie near 
to the point of the winter-solstice either arriving there or leaving it) ; 
that thia takes place only in some parts of the earth to the exclusion of 
others ; that the winter night is not equal to the summer day, aud that 
noon is not then when the sun reaches the midst between his rising and 
setting points. Whilst just the contrary of these necessary inferences 
from their theory is the conclusion generally accepted even by those who 
have only a slight insight into the matter. That, however, similar 
absurdities must follow out of their reasoning he only will thoroughly 
comprehend who is to some degree acquainted with the motions of the 
(celestial) globes. 

Tf somehody will stick to what people say at dawn-rise, “ morning has 
come, night hae gone ;” what is he to think of what they say when the sun 
is near setting, and lecomes yellov—* evening has come, day has gone, 
night has come?’ Such expressions merely indicate the approaching, 
the advancing, and the receding of the precise time in which people just 
happen to be. These phrases are to he explained as metaphors and 
metonymics. They are allowed in the usage of the language, ¢f. ey. the 
word of God (Sfra xvi. 1): The order of God has come; therefore do 
not hurry it.” 

Another argument iu favour of our view is the following saying, 
which is attributed to the Prophet, to whom and to whose family may 
God be taereiful: "The prayer of the day is silent.” And the fact that 


p. 


7 


10 


people call the noon-preyer the “first” prayer, becanee it is the fret oF 
the two daily prayers ; whilot they cal the afternoon-prayer the “middle” 
prayer, because it ie in the midst, between the first of the two daily 
prayers and the first ef the prayors of tho night. 

My only object in all I bave discussed im thie place is to refute the 
opinion of those who think that those things which are necessary for 
certain philosophical or physical causes prove the contrary of that which 
ia indicated by the Coran, and who fry to support their opinion hy the 
doctrine of one of the lawyers and commentstors of the Coran. God 
helps to the right insight! 


lt 


CHAPTER II. 


OR THE NATURE OF THAT WHICH Is COMPOSED OF DAYS, VIZ., MONTHS 
AND YERARG. 


Isay: Year means one revolution of the sun in the ecliptic, moving in a 
direction opposite to that of ths universal motion, and returning to the 
rame point which bas been assumed as the starting-point of his motion, 
whichsoever point this may be. In this way the sun includes in hia 
course the four eeasone, spring, summer, autumn, winter, and their four 
different natures ; and returns always to the point whence he commenced. 

10 According to Ptolemy these revolutions are equal, because he did not 
find that the apogee of the aun moves; whilst they are unequal according 
to the authors of Sindhind and the modern astronomers, because their 
observations led them to think that the apogee of the sun movee. In 
each case, however, whether they he equal or different, these revolutions 
include the four seasons and their natures. 

As to the length of such a revolotion in daye and fractions of a day, 
the results of the astronomical observations do not agree, bot differ 
considerably. According to some obsereations it is larger; according to 
others less. However, in a short space of time this difference scarcely 

20 becomes perceptible ; but in the long run of time, when thi: difference 
is heing redoubled and multiplied many times, and is then summed up 
into @ whole, a very great error becomes clearly manifest, on account 
of which the sages have strongly recommended us to continue making 
observations, and to guard against errors which poseibly might havs 
entered into them. p.10. 

The difference of the observations regarding the length of one annual 
revolution of the gun does not arise from this cause, that people do not 
knew bow properly to institute such observations, and to gain thereby 
an accurate knowledge of tbe real state of the thing; but from this 

30 cause, that it is impossible to fix the parts of the greatest circle by 


p. 11. 


12 ALBintni. 


means of the parts of the smallest circle. Irefer to the amallnase of 
the instruments of observationa in compzrison with tie vastness of the 
bodies which are to be observed. On this subject I havo enlarged in my 
book, called Kitdb-alietishhdd bikhtitdf-a? arsdd. 

During this time, ie, during one revolution of the sun in the ecliptic, 
the moon completes a little lesa than 12} revolutions, and has 12 
lunations. This space of tims, tc. tho 12 revolutions of the moon in 
the celiptic, is, technically, the luaar year, in which the fraction (beyond 
the 12 revolutions), which is nearly 1] days, is disregarded. The same 
fact, further, is the reason why the ecliptic was divided into 12 equal 
parta, as I have explained in my hook on the investigation of raya and 
lights ; the aame which I had the hononr to present to Hie Highnese. 
May God increase his majesty | 

In consequence, people distinguish two kinds of years—the Solar yaar 
and the Lunar year. They have not used other atara for the purpose of 
deriving years from them, because their motions are comparatively 
hidden, and can hardly ever be found ont by eyesight; but only by 
astronomical observations and experiments. Further (they used only 
aun and moon for this purpose), because the changes of the particles of 
the eloments and their mutual metamorphoses, as far as time and the 
state of the air, plants and animals, etc. are concerned, depend entirely 
upon the motions of these two celestial bodies, becanse they are the 
greatest of all, and becauss they excel thc other stars by their light and 
appearance; and because they resemble each other. Afterwards people 
derived from these two kinds of years other years. 

Tho Solar Year.— According to the statement of Theon, in his Canon, 
ths people of Constantinople, and of Alexandria, and the other Grecks, 
the Syrians aud Chaldeans, the Egyptians of our time, and thore who 
have adopted the year of Almu‘ta-did-billah, all uee the solar year, 
which consists of nearly 365} days. They reckon their year ae 865 
days, and add the quarters of a day in every fourth year as one complete 
day, when it has aummod up thereto. This year they call an intercaiary 
year, because the quarters are intercalated therein. The ancient Egyp- 
tiane followed the same pructice, but with this difference, that they 
neglected the quarters of a day till they bad summed up to the number 
of days of one complete year, which took place in 1,460 years; then they 
intercalated one year, and agreed with the people of Alexandria and 
Constantinople as to the beginning of the year. So"Theon Alexandrinus 
relates. 

The Persians followed the same rule as long aa their empire lasted ; 
but they treated it differently. For they reckoned ibeir year as 365 
days, and neglected the followimg fractions until the day-quarters had 
summed upin the course of 120 years to the number of days of one 
complete month, and until the fifth parts of an hour, which, according 
to their opinion, follow the fourth parts of a day (ie.thsy give the 


10 


20 


40 


10 


30 


40 


ON TRE NATURE OF MONTHS AND YEARS. 13 


solar year the length of 365} days and 4 hour), had summed up to 
one day; then they addsd the complete month to the year in each 116th 
year. This was done for a reason which I shall explain hereafter. 

The sxample of the Persians was followed by the ancient inhabitants 
of Khwérizm and Sogdiana, and by sll who had the same religion as ths 
Persians, who were subject to tham, and were considsred as their 
kinsmsn, during the tims when their empire flourished. 

I have heard that the Péshdidian kings of the Persians, those who 
ruled over the entire world, reckoned the year as 360 days, and each 
month as 80 days, without any addition and subtraction; that thsy 
intercalated ons month in every sixth year, which they called “inteecalary 
month,” and two months in every 120th year; the one on account of 
the five days (the Epagomens), the other on account of the quarter of a 
day; that they held this year in high honour, and called it the “ blessed 
year,” and thet in it they occupied themselves with the affairs of divine 
worslup and matters of public interest. 

The character of the system of the sncisnt Egyptians, according to 
what the Almagsst relates regarding ths rears on which its own system of 
computation was based, and of the systema of the Persians in Islim, and 
the people of Khwarizm and Sogdiana, ‘s their aversion to the fractions, 
ie, the } day and what follows it, and their neglecting them altogether. 

The Luni-Solar Year.—The Hebrews, Jews, and all the Israelites, 
the Sihians, and Harrinians, used an intermediate system. They 
derived their year from the revolution of the sun, and its months from 
the revolntion of the moon—with this view, that their feast and fast 
days might be regulated by lunar computation, and at the same time 
keep their places within the year.! Therefore they intercalated ? months 
in 19 lunar years, as I shall explain hereafter in the derivation of their 
eycles and the different kinds of their years. 

The Christians egresd with them in the mode of the computation of 
their fasting and of some of their festivals, the cardinal point in all th’s 
being the Passover of the Jews ; but they differed from them in the use of 
the months, wherein they followed the system of the Greeks and Syrians. 

In s similar way the heathen Arabs proceeded, observing the 
difference between their yesr and the solar year, which is 10 days 
214 hours, to speak roughly, and adding it to the vear ag one month 
88 soon as it completed the number of days of a month. They, however, 
reckoned this difference as 10 days and 20hours. This bnsiness was 
administered by the Nasa’a (the intercalators) of the tribe of Kinana, 
known aa the Kalémis,a plural form of Kalammas, which signifies a 
full-flowing sea, These were Abd Thumama and his ancestors: 

I. Abi Thumims Junéda ben 
‘Auf ben 
"Uniyya ben 
Kala‘ ben 


p. 12.. 


14 atpfg ont, 


V. ‘Abbad ben 
Kala‘ ben 
VII. Hudhbaifa. 


They were all of them intercalators. The first of thom who held this 
office was— 
VH. Hudhaifa ben 
‘Ahd ben 
Pukaim ben 
X. ‘Adiyy ben . 

‘Awir ben 10 
Tha‘laba ben 
Malik ben 

XIV. Kinana, 


Tho last of them, who held it, was ‘Abi-Thumima. The poet, who 
celebrates them, describes him in the following terme :— 
“ Thore is Fukaim! He was called Alkalammas, 
And he was one of the founders of their religion, 
Hie word heing obeyed, he being recognised a 1 chieftain.” 


And another poet saye: 
“ He was) Samous among the forerunners of Kinina, 20 
A celehrated man, of exalted rank. 
In this way he spent his time.” 


Another poet says: 
“ The difference between the revolution of the sun and new-mvon 
He adds together and sums it up, 
Til it makes out a complete month.” 


He (i.e. Hudhsifa) had taken this system of intercalation from the 
Jews nearly 200 years before Islim; the Jewe, however, intercalated 
9months in 24lunar yeare. In consequence their montha were fixed, 
and came always in at their proper times, wandering in a uniform course 80 
through the year without retrograding and without advancing. This 
state of things remained till the Prophet made his Farewell pilgrimage, 
and the following verse was revealed to him: “ Intercalation is only au 
increzse of infidelity, by which the infidels lead astray (people), 
admitting it ons year and prohibiting it in another.” (Sfra ix. 87.) 
The Prophet delivered an address to the people, and said: ‘Time has 
come round as it was on the day of God's creating the heavens and the 
earth,” and, continuing, he recited to them the (just mentioued) verse 
of the Coran on the prohibition of the Nasi’, is. intercalation. Ever 
sincs they have neglected intercalation, so that their months have 40 
receded from their original places, and the names of the months are no 
longer in conformity with their origina) meanings. 


10 


20 


ON TEE NATURE OF MONTHS AND YEARS. 15 


Aa to the other nations, their opinione on thie subject are well known. 
They aro likely to have no other syetems besides those we have men- 
tioned, and each nation seeme to follow the example of .the eyetem of 
their neighbours. 

Years of the Indians.—I have heard that the Indians use the 
appearance of new-moon in their months, that they intercalate one lunar 
month in every 976 days, and that they fix the beginning of their era 
to the moment when a conjunction takes place in tho firet mimute of any 
zodiacal sigu. The chief object of their searching ie that this con- 
junction should take place in one of the two equinoctial points. The 
leap-year they call Adhkimasa. 1t is very poseible that thie is really the 
case; because, of all stars, they use epocially tho moon, her mansione 
and their subdivisions, in their astrologica] determinations, and nat 
the zodiscal signs. However,I have not met with anybody who had 
an accurate knowledge of thie eubject; therefore I turn away from what 
I cannot know for certain. And God ia my help! 

*Abi-Muhammad Alni’ib Alémuli relates in his Krtdb-alghurra, on 
the authority of Ya‘kab ben Tarik, that the Indiana use four different 
Kinde of epacce of time : 


L One revolution of the aun, etarting from a point of the ecliptic 
and returning to it. This is the colar year. 


H. 360 risings of the eun. This is called the middle-year, because it 
is longer than the lunar year and shorter than the eolar year. 
YI. 12 revolutions of the moon, starting from the etar A/sharatdn 
(ie. the head of Arie) and returning to it. This ia their 
lunar year, which consiste of 327 daye and uearly 74 hours. 


IV. 12 lunatione. Thie is the lunar year, which they use. 


p. 13. 


p. 14. 


16 aLpiront. 


CHAPTER It. 


ON THE NATURE OF THD ERAS, AND TEE DIPFHEENT ‘OPINIONS OF THE 
NATIONS REGARDING THEM. 


Ens means a definite space of time, reckoned from ths beginning of 
some past year, in which either a prophet, with signa aud wonders, and 
with a proof of his divine mission, was sent, or 2 great and powerful 
king rose, or in which a nation perished by a universal destroctive 
deluge, or hy a violent carthquake and einking of the earth, or a 
aweeping pestilence, or by intense drought, or in which a change of 
dynasty or religion took place, or any grand event of ’.ne celestial and 
the famous tellurian miraculous occurrences, which do not happen’ save 
at long intervals and at times far distant from each other. By such 
evente the fired moments of time (the epochs) are recognised. Now, 
such an era cannot be dispensed with in all secular and religious 
affairs. Each of the nations scattered over tha different parts of the 
world has a special sta, which they count from the times of their kings 
or prophets, or dynasties, or of some of those events which we have juat 
now mentioned. And thence they derive the dates, which they want in 
social intercouree, in chronology, and in every institute (é.e. festivals) 
which is exclusively peculiar to them. 

Era of the Creation.—The first and most famous of the beginnings 
of antiquity is the fact of the creation of mankind. But among those 
who have a book of divine revelation, such as the Jews, Christiana, 
Magians, and their various sects, there exists such a difference of 
opinion as to the nature of this fact, and as to the question how to date 
fsom it, the like of whish is not allowable for eres, Everything, the 
knowledge of which is connected with the beginning of creation and 
with the history of bygone generations, is mixed up with falsifications 
and myths, because it belonga to a far remote age; because a loag 
interval separates ua therefrom, and because the atudent is incapable of 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF THE ERAS. 17 


keeping it in memory, and of fixing it (so as to preserve it from con- 
fusion). God saya: ‘Have they not got the stories about those who 
were before them? None but God knows them.” (Siraix. 71.) There- 
fore it is becoming not to admit any account of a similar subject, if it 
is not attested by a book, the correctness of which is relied upon, or hy 
a tradition, for which the conditions of authenticity, accordiny to the 
prevalent opinion, furnieh grounds of proof. 

If we now first consider this ert, we find a considerable divergence 
of opinion regarding it among these nations. For the Persians and 

10 Magians think that the duration of the world is 12,000 years, corre- 
sponding to the numher of the signs of the zodiac and of the months; 
and thet Zoroaster, the founder of their Jaw, thought that of thoee there 
had passed, till the time of his appearance, 3,000 years, intercalated 
with the day-quarters ; for he himself had made their computation, 2nd 
had taken into account that defcct, which had accrued to them on 
account of the day-quarters, till the time when they were intercalated 
and were made to agree with real time. From his appearance till the 
beginning of the ra Alexandri, they count 258 years; therefore they 
count irom the heginning of the world till Alexander 3,258 years. 

20 However, if we compute the years from the creation of Gayémarth, whom 
they hold to be the first man, and sum up the years of the reign of each 
of his suecessors—for the rule (of Iran) remained with his descendants 
without interruption—this number is, for the time till Alexander, the 
sum total of 3354 years. So the specification of the single items of the 
addition does not agree with the sum total. 

Farther, the Persians and Greeks disagree as to the time after 
Alexander. For they count from Alexander till the beginning of the 
reign of Yazdajird 942 years 257 days. If we deduct therefrom the 
duration of the rule of the Sasenian lings as far as the beginning of 

80 the reign of Yazdajird, as they compute it, viz, nearly 415 years, we 
get a remainder of 528 years as the time during which Alexander and 
the Mulik-al-tawd'if reigned. But if we sum up the years of the reign 
of each of the Ashkanian kings, as they have settled it, we get only the 
sum of 280 years, or—taking into regard their differences of opinion as to 
the length of the reign of each of them,—the sum of not more than 300 
years. This difference I shall hereafter try to settle to some extent. 

A section of the Persians is of opinion that those past 3,000 years 
which we have mentioned are to he counted from the creation of 
Gayémarth ; becanse, before that, already 6,000 years had elapsed--a 

40 time during which the celestial gluhe stood motionless, the natures (of 
created heings) did not interchange, the elements did not mix—during p.165. 
which there was no growth, and no decay, and the earth was not cultivated, 
Therenpon, when the celestial globe was set a-goiny, the first man came 
into existence on the equator, so that part of him in longitudinal 
direction waa on the north, and part south of the line. The anima)s 


2 


p. 16. 


18 aLsinont. 


were produced, and mankind commenced to reproduce their own epecies 
and to multiply; the atoms of the elements mixed, so as to give rise to 
growth and decay; the earth was cultivated, and the world was 
arranged in conformity with fixed norms. 

The Jews and Christians differ widely on thia subject; for, according 
to the doctrine of the Jews, the time between Adam and Alexander ia 
3,448 years, whilst, according to the Christian doctrine, it ie 5,180 yeare. 
The Christians reproach the Jews with having diminished the number of 
yeare with the viow of making the appearance of Jesus fall into the 
fourth millennium in the middle of the seven millennia, which are, 
according to their view, the time of the duration of the world, sr as not 
to coincide with that time at whiob, as the prophete after Moses had 


_prophesied, the hirth of Jesus from a pure virgin at the and of time, 


waa to take place. Both parties depend, in their bringing forward of 
arguments, upon certain modes of interpretation derived from the 
isdb-cl-jummal. So the Jewe expect the coming of the Messiah who 
was promiaed to them at the end of 1,385 yeara after Alexander, ex- 
pecting it like something which they know for certain. In consequence 
of which many of the peondo-prophets of their sects, as ag. Alri, 
*Abd-fef Al-iefahani, and others, claimed to be hie messengers to them. 
This expectation was based on the assumption that the beginning of 
this era (Aira Alexandri) coincided with the time when the sacrifices 
were abolished, when no more divine revelation was received, and no 
more prophets were sent. Then they referred to the Hehrow word of 
God in the 5th book of the Thora (Deut. xxxi. 18), PNON Wr 38 
NYT OYA OMS “SD, which means: “I, God, shall conceal any 
being till that day.” And they counted the letters of the wards 
ION WO, the word for “ concealing,” which gives the aum of 1,335. 
This they declared tobe the time during which no inspiration from 
heaven waa received and the sacrifices were aholished, which is meant 
by God’s concealing himself. The word “ being” (J\s=499) is hera 
synonymous with “affair” (or “order, command”), In order to 
support what they maintain, they quote two passages in the Book 
of Daniel (xi. 11): HOS oo oaw ppwnnd Tonn jo; nyo 
DOMWN OUND, which means: “Since the time when the sicrifice 
was abolished until impurity comes to destruction it is 1,290.” 
and the next following passage (Dan. wi. 12): WIN MIT Ns 
rior wreoeh min thoth now ov which means: “There. 
fore happy he who hopes to reach to 1,835.” Some people explain 
the difference of forty-five yenrs in these two passages so aa to refer 
the former date (1,290) to the beginning of the rebuilding of Jerusalem ; 
and the latter (1,835) to the time when the rebuilding would be finiehed. 
According to others, the first number ia the date of the birth of Messiah, 
whilst tho latter is the date of hi; public appearance. Further, the Jews 
say, when Jacob bestowed his hleasing upon Judah (Gen. xlix. 10), be 


10 


30 


40 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF THE ERAS. 


informed him that the rule should always remain with his sons till the 
time of the coming of him to whom the rule belongs. So in these words 
ho told him that the rule should remain with his descendants until the 
appearance of the expected Messiah. And now the Jews add that this 
is reglly the cass; that the rule has not been taken from them. For ths 
NWA tity ie. “the bead of the oziles” who had becn banished 
from their homes in Jerusalem, is the master of every Jew in the world ; 
the ruler whom they obey in all countries, whose order ig carried out 
under most cireumstances. 

The Christians use certain Syriac words, viz., Ja0;2 pure sdes 
to3, which mean “Jems, the Messiah, the greatest redeemer.” Com- 
puting the value of the letters of theese words, they get the sum of 1,335. 
Now, they think that it was theee words which Danie] meant to indicate 
hy those numhers, not the above-mentioned years; hecause in the text 
of his words they are nothing but numbers, without any indication 
whether they mean years, or days, or something elee. It is a prophecy 
indicative of the name of the Messiah, not of the tims of his coming. 
Further, they relate that Daniel once dreamt in Babylonia, some years 
after the accession of Cyrus to the throne, on the 24th of the first 
month, when he had prayed to God, and when the Israelites were the 
prisoners of the Persians. Then God revealed to him the following 
(an. ix. 24-26): “’Urishlim, de. Jerusalem, will be rebuilt 70 Sadi‘, 
and will remain in the porseasion of thy people. Then the Messiah will 
come, but he will be killed. And in consequencs ef bis coming 
’*Orishlim will undergo its last destruction, and it will remain a ruin till 
the end of time.” Tho word Saba (Hebrew YI) means a Seplennivvn. 
Now, of the whole time (indicated in this passage) ..ven Septennia refer 
to the rebuilding of Jerusalem, which time ia also mentioned in the 
Book of Zekharyé ben Berekhya hen ‘Iddé (Zechariah iv. 2): ‘I have 
beheld a candlestick with seven lamps thereon, and with seven pipes to 
each lamp.” And before this he says (iv. 9): t The handsof Zerubbabel 
have laid the foundation of this house, his hands also shall finish it.” 
The time from the beginning of his rebuilding of the house (te. Jeru- 
salem) till its end is 49 years, or 7 Septennia. Then, after 62 Septen- 
nia, they think, Jesus the son of Mary came ; and in the last Septennium 
the sacrifices and offerings were abolished, and Jerusalem underwent its 
ahove-mentioned destruction, insomuch that no more divine revelation 
nor prophets were sent, as the Jsraclites were scattered all over the 
world, utterly neglected, not practising their sacrifices, nor having a 
place where to practise them. 

In reepect of all we have mentioned, each of the two parties makes 
agsertions which they cannot support by anything hut interpretations 
derived from the Wisdb-al.jummol, and fallacious subtilties. If the 
student would try to establish something else by the same means, and 
efute what they (each of the two parties) maintain, by similar argumenta, 


p- 17. 


p- 18, 


26 atBintst, 


it would not be difficult for him to search forthem, As to what the 
Jews think of the continuance of the rule in the family of Juda, and 
which they tranefer to the leadership of the exiles, we must remark that, 
if it was correct to extend the word “rule” to « eimilar leadership by 
way of analogy, the Magiane, the Sabiane, and othere would partake 
of this, and neither the other Ieraclites nor any other nation would be 
exempt therefrom. Becauee no clase of men, not even the loweet, are 
without s sort of rule and leadership with relation to others whe are 
etill inferior to them. 

Uf wo referred the numerical value of the word “ concealing” in the 
Thora to that period from the earliest date which the Israelites assign to 
their exodne from Egypt till Jeeue the son of Mary, thie interpretation 
would rest on a better foundation. For the timo from their exodus from 
Egypt till the accession of Alexander is 1,000 years according to their 
own view; and Jesue the eon of Mary was born Anno Alexandri 304, 
and God raised him to himeelf Anno Alexandri $86. So the eum of the 
years of thie complete period is 1,835 as the time during which the law 
of Moses ben ‘Imrin existed, till it was carried to perfection by Jesus 
the con of Mary. 

Aa to that which they derive from the two passagee of Daniel, we can 
only say thet it would be possible to refer them to something different, 
and to explain them in a different way; and more than that—thet 
neither of their modes of interpretation ie correct, except we eupposs 
that the beginning of that number precedes the time when they were 
pronouneed (by Daniel). For if it ie to be understood that the begin- 
ning of both numbere (1,290 and 1,335) ie one and the same time, bo it 
past, present, or future, you cannot reasonably explain why ‘he two 
pasenges ehould have been pronounced at different times. Ay.d, nov to 
speak of the difference between the two numbere (1,290 and 1,355) the 
mattar can in no way he correct; because the second passage (“Happy 
he who hopes to rea:h 1,835”) admits, firet, that the beginning of the 
number precedes the tine when the passage was pronounced; ao that it 
(the number) may reach ite end one year, or more or less, after the 
enpposed time; secondly, that the beginning of that number may be 
the very identical time when the passage was pronounced ; or, thirdly, 
that it may be after this moment by an indefinite time, which may be 
smaller or greater. Now, if a chronological etatement may be referred 
to all three epheree of time (past, present, and future), it cannot be 
referred to any one of them except on ths basis of a clear text or an 
indisputable argument. 

The firat passege (“Since the time when the sacrifice waa sbolished, 
until impurity comes to destruction, it ie 1,290”) admits likewiee of being 
referred, firat, to the firat deetruction of Jerusalem; and, secondly, to 
ite second destruction, which happened, however, only 885 yeare after 
the accession of Alexander. 


10 


20 


80 


40 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF THE EFAS. 2t 


Therefore the Jews have not the slightest reason to commence (in 
their calculations as tv the coming of the Messiah) with that date with 
which they have commenced (viz., the epoch of the Afra Alexandri). 

These are douhts and difficulties which beset the assertions of the 
Jews. Those, however, which attach to the schemes of the Christians 
are evel more numerous and conspicuons. For even if the Jews granted 
to them that the coming of Messiah was to take place 70 Septennia after 
the vision of Daniel, we must remark that the appearance of Jesus the 
son of Mary did not take place at that time. The reason is this:—Tho 
Jews have agreed to fix the interval between the exodus of the Jeraelites 
from Egypt and the Aira Alexandri at 1,000 complete years. From pas- 
sages in the books of the Prophets they have inferred that the interval 
between the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt and the building of 
Jerusalem is 4680 years; and the interval between the building and 
the destruction by Nebucadnezar 410 years; and that it remained in a 
ruined state 70 years. Now this gives the sum of 960 years (after tho 
exodus from Egypt) as the date for the vision of Daniel, and as a 
remainder of the ahove.mentioned millenninm (from the exodus till Ara 
Alexandri) 40 years. Further, Jews and Christians unanimously suppose 
that the birth of Jesus the son of Mary toox place Anno Alexandri 804, 
Therefore, if we nse their own chronology, the birth of Jesus the son of 
Mary took place 344 years after the vision of Danie] aud the rebuilding 
of Jerusalem, i.e uhout 49 Septennia. From his birth till the time when he 
began preaching in public are 4} Septennia more. Hence it is evident 
that the birth (of Jesus) precedes the date which they have assuiaed 
(aa the time of the birth of the Messiah). 

For the Jews there follow no such couseyuences from their chrono- 
logical system ; and if the Christians should accuse the Jews of telling 
lies regarding the length of the period between the rebuilding of 
Jerusalem and the epoch of the Hra Alexandri, the Jows would meet 
them with similar accusations, and more than that. 

If wa leave aside the arguments of the two parties, and consider the 
wable of ths Chaldean kings, which we shall hereafter explain, we find 
the interval between the beginning of the reign of Cyrus and that of 
the reign of Alexander to be 222 years, and from the latter date till the 
birth of Jesus 304 yeare; so that the sum total is 526 years. Tf wu 
now deduct therefrom 8 years, for the rehnilding (vf Jcrusalem) com- 
menced in tho third year of the reign of Cyrus, and if we reducs the 
remainder to Septennia, we get nearly 75 Septennia for the interval 
between tho vision (of Daniel) and the birth of Messiah. Therefore tha 
birth of Messiah is later than the date which they (the Christians) 
‘have assnmed. 

If the Christians compute the Syriac words (loys Lene cho Seu 
|), and believe that because of thé identity of their numerical value 
with the number (1,835, mentioned hy Daniel), thess words were meant 


p19. 


22 aLBiront. 


“(by Danial) and not a certain number of years, we can only sny that 


we cannot accept such an opinion except it be confirm~? by sn argument 
aa indubitable as ocular inspection. For if yon computed the numerical 
value of the following words: sas, AT) gyo gialt Sle (th deliver. 
ance of the creation from infidelity by Muhammad”), you would get 
the sum of 1,385. Or if you compnted the words ole oor 
al Comally thee (“the prophesy of Moses ben ‘Imrdn regarding Mu- 
bammad; the prophecy of the Meesiah regarding’ Almada"), you would got 
the same sum, te. 1,335. Likewise, if you counted these words: cote 
ell when obs ra (“The plain of Pirin shines with the «literate 
Mubammad”), you would again get the same sum (1,385). If, now, a 
man asserts that these numbere are meant to indicate a prophecy on 
account of the identity of the numerical values of these phrases with 
that of the Syriae words (123 loo;> paxalo scas), the valne of his 
argument would be exactly the same as that of the Christiane regarding 
those passages (in Daniel), the one case closely reesmbling the other, 
even 3f he should produce as a testimony for Muhammad and the truth 
of the prophecy regarding him » passage of the prophet Isaiah, of which 
the following is the meaning, or like it (Teainh xxi. 6-9): God ordered 
him to set a watehman on the watchtower, that he might declare what he should 
see, Then he said: I see a man siding on an aae, and a man riding on a 
camel. And the one of them came forward crying and gnuaking: Babylon ia 
jollen, and its graven images ore broken.” Thisis a prophecy regarding 
the Messiah, “tha man riding on an ase,” and regarding Muhammad, 
“the man viding on a camel,” hecause in conseqnence of his appearance 
Babylon bas fallen, ita idola have teen broken, its castles have been 
shattered, and its empire has perished. There are many passages in the 
book of the prophet Isainh, predicting Muhammad, being rather hinta 
(than clearly ont-spoken worde), but casily admitting of a clear inter- 
pretstion. And with all this, their obstinacy in clinging to their error 
induces them to devise and to maintain things which are not acknow- 
ledged by men in general, viz.: that “ the man riding on the camel,” ie 
Moees, not Muhammad. But what connection have Mosse and hia 
people with Babel? And did that happen to Moses and to his peaple 
after him, which happened to Muhammed and his compsnione in Babel ? 
By no means! If they (the Jews) had ono after the other escaped from 
the Babyloniane, they would have considured it o sufficient prize to carry 
off to return (to their country), even though in @ desperate condition, 
This testimony (Isaieh xxi. 6-9) is confirmed by tho word of God to 
Mosos in the fifth book of the Thora, called Almathnd (Deuteronomy 
xviii. 18, 19): “I will raiss them up a prophet from among their brethren 
tike unto thee, and wilk put my word into his mouth. Andha shall epeok 
unto them all that I shall command him. And whosoever will not Learken 
unto the word of him who speake in my name, I shall take revenge on him.” 
Now I should like to kuow whether there are other brethren of the sous 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE NATURE OF THE ERAS. 


of Isaac, exeopt the sons of Ishmael, If they soy, that the brethren of 
the sons of Israel are the children of Esau, we ask only : Has thera then 
risen among them a man like Meses—in the times after Moses—of the 
same description and resembling him? Does not also the followmg 
passage of the same hook, of which this is the translation (Deut. rrxiii. 
2), bear testimony for Muhammad: ** The Lord came from Mount Sinai, 
and rose up unto ue from Beir, and he shined forth from Mount Paran, 
accompanied by ten thousand of saints at hia right hand?” The terma of 
‘his passage are hints for the establishing of the proof, that the 
(anthropemorphic) descriptions, which aro inherent in them, cannot be 
referred to the essencs of the Creator, nor to his qualities, he being high 
ebove such things. His coming from Mount Sinai means his secret 
conversation with Moses there; his rising up from Seir means tho 
appearance of Messiah, and his shining forth from Paran, where Ishmael 
graw up and married, means the coming of Muhaminad from thence as 
the last of all the foundere of religions, accompanied hy legions of 
saints, who were sent down from heaven to help, heing marked with 
certain badges. He who refuses to accept this interpretation, for which 
all evidence has herne testimony, is required to prove what kinds of 
mistakes thereare init. ‘ But he whose companion is Satan, wos to him 
for such a companion!” (Sidra iv. 42.) 

Now, if the Christians do not allow us to use the numerica) values of 
Arabie words, we cannot allow them to do the same with the Syriac 
words which they quote, hecause the Thora and the hooks of those 
prophets were revealed in the Hebrow language. All they have brought 
forward, and all we are going to propound, is a decisive proof, and a clear 
atgument, showing that the words in the holy hooks have heen altered 
from their proper meanings, and that the text has undergone modifica- 
tions contrary to its original condition Having recourse to this sort of 
computing, and ef usg false witnesses, shows and proves to evidences, 
that their authors purposely deviate from the path of truth and right- 
sonsness. If wecould open them a door in heaven, and thay ascended 
therehy, they would say: “Our eyes are only drunken. Nay, we ave 
fascinated people.” (Shira xv. 15.) But such is not the cass, The fact 
is that they are blind to the truth. We pray to God, that he may heln 
and streugthen 1s, that he may guard us sgainst sin, and lead us by the 
right path. 

As to tho doctrine of abrogation (of ons holy beok by another), and aa 
to their fanciful pretension of haying passages of the Thera which order 
him who claims to he a prophat after Moses to be put to death, we must 
state, that ths groundlessness of these opinions is rendered svident hy 
other passages of the Thera. However, there are more suitable places to 
speak of these opinions than this, and so we return to our subject, as we 
have already hscoms lengthy in eur exposition, ons matter drawing us to 
another. 


p. 20. 


p. 21. 


24 aLaizont. 


Now I proceed to state that both Jews and Christiang have a copy of 
the Thora, the contents of which agres with the doctrines of aither sect. 
Of the Jewish copy people think that it is comparatively free from 
confusion. The Christian copy is called the “ Thora of the Seventy,” for 
the following reason: After Nehukadnezar had conquered and destroyed 
Jerusalem, part of the Israclites emigrated from their country, toek 
refuge with the king of Egypt, and lived there under his protection till 
the timo when Ptolemmus Philadelphus «scended the throne. This king 
heard of the Thora, and of its divine origin. Therefore he gave orders to 
search for this community, and found them at last in a place numbering 
about 80,000 men. Ho afforded them protection, and took them into hia 
favour, lo treated them with kindness, and allowed them to return to 
Jerusalem, which in the meanwhile had been rebuilt by Cyrus, Bahman’s 
governor of Babel, whu had also revived the culture of Syria. They left 
Egypt,accom panied by a body of his (Ptolemmns Philadelphue’) servants 
for thvir protoction. The king said to them: “I want to ask you for 
something. If you grant ma the favour, you acquit yourselves of all 
obligations towarde me, Let me have a copy of your hook, the Thora.” 
This the Jews promised, apd confirmed their promise by an cath. Having 
atrived at Jerusalem, they fulfilled their promiee by sending him a copy 
of it, but in Hebrew. He, buwaver, did not know Hebrew. Therefore he 
addressed himself again to them asking for people who knew hoth 
Hebrew and Greek, who wight translate the beok for him, promising 
them gifts and presents in reward. Now the Jews selected seventy-two 
men out of their twelve tribes, six men of each tribe from among the 
Rabbiea and priests. Their names are known among tho Christians, 
These men translated the Thora into Greek, after they had been housed 
separately, and each couple had got a servant to take care of them. 
Thia went on till they had finished the translation of the whale hook. 
Now the king had in his hands thirty-six translations. These he com. 
pared with each other, and did not find any differences in them, except 
those which always occur in the rendering of the same ideas. Then the 
king gave them what he had promised, and provided them with every- 
thing of the hest. The Jews asked him to make them a present of one 
of those copies, of which they wished to make a boast hefore their own 
peopls. And the king complied with their wish. Now this ie the copy 
of the Christians, and people think, that in it no alteration or tranaposi- 
tion has taken place. The Jews, however, give quite a different account, 
viz. that they made the translation under compulsion, and that they 
yielded to the king’s demand only from fear of viclence and maltreat. 
ment, and not before baving agreed upon inverting and confounding the 
text of the book, Thore is nothing in thoreport of the Chrietians which, 
even if we should take it for granted—removea our doubts (aa to the 
anthenticity of their Bible); on the contrary, there is something in it 
which atrengthens them greatly. 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE NATERE OF THE ERAS. 


Besides these two copies of the Thora, there is a third ons that exists 
ameng the Samaritans, also known by the name of Al-’dmasdsiyya. To 
them, as the substitutes for the Jews, Nebucadnezar had given the 
country of Syria, when he Icd the Jews into captivity, and cleared 
the country of them. Ths Samaritans had helped him (in the war 
against the Jews), and bad pointed out to him the weak points of 
the Israelites. Therefore, he did not disturb them, nor kill them, nor 
mako them prisoners, but he mads them inhabit Palestine under his 
protection, 

10 = Their doctrines are s syncretism of Judaism and Zoroastrianism. Ths 
bulk of their community is living in a town of Palestine, called Naddulua, 
where they have their churches. They have never entered the precincts 
of Jerusalem since the days of David the prophet, because they main- 
tain that he committed wrong snd injustice, and transferred the holy 
temple from Naébnlus to Aelia, ic. Jerusalem. They do not touch 
other people; but if they happen to be touched by anyone, they wash 
themselves. They do not acknowledge any of tha prophets of the 
Israelites after Moses. 

Now as to the copy which the Jews have, and on which they rely, ws 

20 find thst according to its account of the lives of the immediate descend- 
ants of Adam, the interval between the expulsion of Adam from Paradise 
till the deluge in the time of Noah, is 1,656 yeare; according to the 
Christian copy the same interval is 2,242 years, and according to the 
Samaritan copy it is 1,307 years. According to one of the historians, 
Anianus, the interval between the creatien of Adam and tho night of 
the Fridsy when the deluge commenced, is 2,226 years 23 days and 
4 houre. This statement of Anianus is reported by Ibn-Albizyar in 
his Kitéb-alfirdudt (Rook of the Conjunctions); it comes very near that p. 22. 
of the Christians. However, it makes me think that it is based upon 

80 the methods of the astrologers, because it betrays evidently an arbitrary 
and too subtie mode of research. 

Now, if such is the diversity of opinions, as we have described, and 
if there is no possibility of distinguishing—by means of anslogy— 
between truth and fiction, where is the student to search for exact 
information ? 

Not only does the Thora exist in several and different copies, but 
something similar is the ease with the Gospel too, or the Christians 
have four copies of the Gospel, being celleeted into one eode, the first by 
Matthew, the second by Mark, the third by Luke, and the fourth by 

49 John ; each of these four disciples having composed the Gospel in con- 
formity with what be (Chriat) had preached in his country. The reports, 
contained in these four copier, such 26 the descriptions of Messiah, the 
relations of him at the time when be preached and when he was crucified, 
as they maintain, differ very widely the ene from the other. To begin with 
his genealogy, which is the genealogy of Joseph, the bridegroom of Mary 


- 23. 


26 aLpfrtni. 


and stepfather of Jesus. For accordingto Matthew (i. 2-16), his pedigree 
is this :-— 


I. Josaph. Zorobabel. Joram, Salmon. 
Jacch. Salathiol. Josaphat. Naasson. 
Matthan. Jechonias. Asa. Awinadab. 
Eleazar. Josiae, Abia. Aram. 

V. Eliud XV. Amon. XXV. Rohoam. XXXV.Esrom. 
Achin. Manassos. Solomon. Phares. 
Zadok, Ezokias. David, Judas. 

Azor. Ahaz, Jesse. Jacob. 10 
Elyakim. Joatham. Ohed. Teac. 
X. Abiud, XX. Ozias. XXX. Booz. XL. Abrabam. 


Mattbew in stating this genealogy commences with Abrahau, tracing 
it downward (as far as Joseph). According to Luke (iii. 28-81) the 
pedigree of Joeeph is thie :— 


I. Joseph. Esli. Salathiel. Matthat. 
Bali. Naggoe. Neri. Levi. 
Matthat, Maath. Melchi. Simeon. 
Tevi. Mattathias, Addi. Juda. 

V. Melehi. XY. Semei. XXY.Cossm. XXXV.Joseph. 20 
Janna Josaph. Elmodam. Jonam, 
Joseph, JIndas. Er. Elyakim, 
Mattathias. Joanna, Joseph. Melea. 
Amoa. Rhesa. Elieeer. Menap. 

X. Naum. XX.Zorobabel. XXX. Jorim. XL. Matatha. 

Nathan. 
XLII. David. 


This difference the Christiana try to exouse, and to account for it, 
saying, that there waa one of the lawe prescribed in the Thora which 
ordered that, if a man died, leaving hehind a wife but no male children, 90 
the brother of the deceased was to marry her instead, in order to fais 
up @ progeny to the deceased brother; that, in consequence, his children 
were genealogicaliy referred to the deceased brother, whilst as te real 
birth they were the children of the living brother; that, therefore, 
Josoph was referred to two different fathers, that Heli waa his father 
genealogicaly, whilst Yekoh wea his father in raglity. Farther, they 
say, that when Matthew had stated tho real pedigree of Joseph, the 
Jews blamed him for it, saying: “ His pedigree is not correct, because it 
has heen made without regard to his gensalogical relation.” In order to 
meet this reproach, Luke stated his pedigreo in conformity with the 40 
genealogical ordinances of their code. Both pedigrees go back to David, 
and that was the object (in stating them), because it had heen predicted 
of the Messiah, that he would be “ the gon of David.” 

Finally, the fact that only the pedigree of Joseph has beon adduced 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF TBE ERAS. Q? 


for Messiah, and uot that of Mary, is to be explained in this way, that 
according to the law of the Israelites, nobody was allowed to marry any 
but a wife of his own tribe and clan, wherehy they wanted to prevent 
confusion of the pedigreos, and that it was the custom to mention only 
the pedigrees of the men, not those of the women. Now Joseph and 
Mary being both of the eame tribe, their descent must of necessity go 
back to the same origin, And thia was the object in their statement 
and account of the pedigree. 

Everyone of the secta of Marcion, and of Bardcsanea, has a special 
Gospel, which in some parta differs from the Gospsla we have men- 
tioned. Also the Manichwanes have a Gozgpel of their own, the contents 
of which from the first to tho last are cpposed to the doctrines of the 
Christians; but the Manicheens consider them as their religious law, 
and believe that it is tho correct Gospel, that its contents are really that 
which Messiah thonght and taught, that every other Gospel ie falee, and 
ita followers are liars against Messiah. Of this Gospel there isa copy, 
called, “The Gospel of the Seventy,” which is attributed to one Balimia, 
and in the beginning of which it ia atated, that Sallam ben ‘Abdallah ben 
Sallam wrote it down as he heard it from Salmin Alfarisi. He, how- 
ever, who looks into it, will see at once that it is a forgery, it ia not 
acknowledged by Christians and others. Therefore, we come to the 
conclusion, that among the Gospels there are no booke of the Prophete 
to he found, on which you may witl good faith rely. 

Era of the Deluge—tThe next following era ia the era of the great 
deluge, in which everything perished at the time of Noah. Here, too, 
there is such a differeace of opinions, and euch a confusion, that you 
have no chance of deciding as to the correctness of the matter, and do 
not even feel inclined to investigate thoroughly its historical truth. The 
reason is, in the first instance, the difference regarding theperiod between 
the Aira Adami and the Deluge, which we have mentioned already ; and 
secondly, that difference, which we shall have to mention, regarding the 
period hetween the Deluge and the Aara Alexandri. For the Jewa derive 
from the Thora, and the following books, for this latter period 1,792 
years, whilst the Christiane derive from their Thora for the same period 
2,938 yeara. 

The Pereians, and the great mase of the Magians, deny the Deluge 
altogether ; they helieve that the rule (of the world) has remained with 
them without any interruption ever since Gaydmarth Gilshih, who was, 
according to them, the first man. In denying the Deluge, the Indians, 
Chinese, and the various nations of the cast, concur with them. Some, 
however, of the Persians admit the fact of the Deluge, hut they deacribe 
it in a different way from what it ie described in the books of the 
prophets. They say, a partial deluge occurred? in Syria and the west at 
the time of Tahmirath, but it did not extend over the whole of the then 
civilized world, and only few nations were drowned in it; it did not 


p. 24. 


p- 2b. 


28 aLBfntyt. 


extend heyond the peak of Hulwin,and did uot reach the empires of the 
east, Further, they relate, that the inhabitants of the west, when they 
were warned by their sages, constructed buildings of the kind of the two 
pyramids which have been huilt in Egypt, saying: “If the disneter 
comes from heaven, we shall go into them: if it comes from the earth, 
we ghall ascend above them.” People are of opinion, that the traces of 
the water of the Deluge, and the effecte of the waves are still visible on 
these two pyramids half-way up, above which the water did not rise. 
Another report says, that Joseph had made them a magazin, where he 
deposited the bread and victuals fur the yeara of drought. 

It is rolated, that Tahmirath on receiving the warning of the Deluge 
—231 yeara before the Deluge~—ordered hia people to select a place of 
good air and soil in his realm. Now they did not find a placo that 
answered better tothis description than Ispahin. Thereupon, he ordered 
all ecientific books to bo preserved for posterity, and to be buried ina 
part of that place, least exposed to obnosious influences. In favour of 
thie report we may state that in our time in Jay, the city of Ispahfn, 
there have been discovered hills, which, on being excavated, disclosed 
houses, filled with many loads of that tree-bark, with which arrows and 
shielda are covered, and which is called Ps, bearing inscriptions, of 
which no one was able to say what they ere,and what they meen. 

These discrepancies in their reports, inepire doubtsin the student, and 
make him inclined to believe what is related in some books, viz. that 
Gayéwarth was not the first man, but that he waa Gomer ben Yaphet 
ben Noah, that he was a prince to whom a long life was given, that he 
settled on the Mount Dunbawand, where be founded an empire, and 
that finally his power became very great, whilst mankind was stil! living 
im (elementary) conditions, similar to those at the time of the creation, 
and of the first atage of the development of the world. Then he, and 
some of his children, took poscession of the «Aipera of the worli. 
Tcwarde the end of hie life, he became tyrannical, and called himself 
Adam, saying: “If anpbody calla me by anuther name than thie, I 
shall cut off his head’ Others are of opinion that Gayémarth was 
Enmfm (07.8 ?) ben Lid ben *Ariim ben Sem ben Nosh. 

The astrologers have tried to correct these vears, beginning from the 
firat of the conjunctions of Saturn and Jupiter, for which the sages 
among the inhabitante of Babel, and the Chaldmans have constructed 
astronomical tables, the Deluge having originated in their country. For 
people say, that Noah built the ark in Kifa, and that it was there that 
“the well poured forth its waters” (Sidra xi. 425 xxiii. 27); that the ark 
rested upon the mountain of Aljidi, which is not very far from those 
regions. Now this conjunction occurred 229 years 108 days before tho 
Deluge. This date they studied carefully, and tried by that to correct 
the subsequent times. So they found as the interval between the Deluge 
and the beginning of the reign of the first Nebukadnezer (Nabonasear), 


10 


20 


30 


40 


10 


20 


30 


40 


ON THR NATURF OF TRE ERAS. 29 


2,604 years, and as the interval between Nebvkndnezar and Alexander 
486 years, a result which comes protty near to that. one, which is derived 
from the Thore of the Christiane. 

Thia was the era which ‘Abi-Ma‘shar Albalkh? wanted, upon which to 
bass his statements regarding the mcan places of tho stars in his Canon. 
Now he supposed that the Deluge bad taken places at the conjunetion of 
the etara in the laat part of Pisces, and the firat part of Aries, and be 
tried to compute their places for that time. Then he found, that they— 
all of them—=stood in conjunction in the space between the twenty-scventh 
degree of Pisces, and the end of the firat degree of Aries. Further, he 
supposed that between that time and the epocl: of the Ara Alexandri, 
there ia an interval of 2,790 intercalated years 7 months and 26 days. 
Thia computation comes near to that of the Christians, being 249 years 
and 8 months lesa than the estimate of the astronomers. Now, when he 
thought that he had well established the computation of thia eum 
according to the method, which he hag explained, and when he had 
arrived at the result, that the duration of those perioda, which as- 
tronomere call “ star-cycles,” was 360,000 years, the beginning of which 
was to precede the time of the Deluge by 180,000 years, he drew the 
inconsiderate conclusion, that the Deluge had occurred onco in every 
180,000 years, and that it wonld again occur in future at similar 
intervals. : 

Thie meu, who ia eo proud of bie ingenuity, had computed these star. 
cycles only from the motions of the stars, as they had been fixed by the 
observations of the Persians; but they (the cyelea) differ from the 
cycles, which have been based upon the observations of the Indians, 
mown as the “ cycles of Sindhind,’ and likewise they differ from the days 
of Arjabhaz, and the days of Arkand. If anybody would eonstruct such 
cycles on the basia of the ohservations of Ptolemy, or of the modern 
asttonomers, he might do ao by the help of the well known methods of 
euch # calculation, as in fact many people hare done, e.9. Muhammad ben 
"Ishak hen ’Uetédh Bundadb Alsarakhsi, ’Abi-al.wafii Muhammad ben 
Muhammad Albfizajani, and I myself in many of my books, particularly 
in the Kitdb-aListishhdd bithtildf al’arsad. 

In each of theee cycles the etars come into conjunction with each other 
in the first part of Aries once, viz. when they etart upon aud return 
from their rotation, however, at different times. If he (Abi-Ma'shar) 
now would maintain, that the stare were created standing at that time in 
the firat part of Aries, or that tho conjunction of the etara in that place 
is identical with tha beginning of the world, or with the end of the 
world, euch an assertion would be utterly void of proof, although tha 
matter be within the limite of poseibility. But euch conclusions can 
never he admitted, except they rest on an evident argument, or on the 
report of eome one who relates the origines of the world, whose word iv 
telied tyon, and regarding whom in the mind (of the reader or hearer) 


26. 


$0 arpiront. 


this persuasion is esteblished, that he had received divine inapiration 
and help. 

For it is quite possible that those (celestial) bodies were acattered, not 
united at tho timo when the Creator designed and created them, they 
haying theso motions, by which—as calculation shows—they must meet 
each other in one point in such 2 time (aa above mentioned}. It would 
be the same, as if we, ¢.g. supposed a circle, in different separate places 
of which wo put living beings, of whom some move fast, othera slowly, 
each of them, however, being carried on inequal motions—of ite peculiar 
aort of motion—in equal times; further, suppose that we knew their 
distauces and placea at a certain time, and the measure of the distance 
over which cach of them travels in one Nyohthemeron. If you thon aek 
the mathematician as to the length of time, after which they would meat 
each other in a certain point, or before which they had mot exch other in 
that identical point, no bisme attaches to him, if he speaka of billions of 
yearea. Nor does it follow from his account that those beings ezisted at 
that (past) time (when they met each other), or that they would sti® 
ezist at that (future) time (when thay are to meet again); but this only 
follows from bis account, if it ie properly explained, that, if these beings 
really existed (in the past), or would still exist (in future) in that same 
condition, the result (aa to their conjunctions) could be no other but 
that one at which he had arrived by calculation. But then the verifies- 
tion of this subject is the task of a acienca which was not the science of 
*Abi-Ma‘shar. 

If, now, the man who usea the cycles (the atar-cycles), would conclude 
that they, viz. the stars, if they stood in conjunction in the first part of 
Aries, would again and again pass through the same cycles, because, 
according to his opinion, everything connected with the celestial globo ie 
exam pt from growth and decay, and that the condition of the stars in 
the past was eractly the same, his canclusion would he a mere agsumption 
by which he quiets his mind, and which is not supported by any argu- 
ment. Fora proof does not equally apply to the two sides of a contra- 
diction; it applies only to the one, and excludes the other. Besides 
it is well known smong philosophers and others, that there is no such 
thing as an infinite evolution of power (Sivams) into action (mpagrs), 
until the latter comes into rea) existence. The motions, the cycles, and 
the periods of the past were computed whilst they in reality oxieted ; 
they have decreased, whilst et the same time incressing in number; 
therefore, they are not infinite. 

This exposition vill be sufficient for a veracious and fair-minded 
student. But if he remaina obetinate, and inclines te the tricks of over- 
bearmg people, more explavations will be wanted, which exceed the 
compass of this hovk, in order to remove these ideas from his mind, to 
heal what is feeble in his thoughts, and to plant the truth in his soul. 
However, there are other chaptera of this book where it will he more 


10 


30 


10 


30 


ON TBE NATURE OF THE ERAS, $1 


smtable to epeak of this subject than here. The discrepanoy of the 
eyolee, not the discrepancy of the observations, is a eufficient argument 
for—and a poworful help towards—repudiating the follies committed by 
*Abi-Ma‘sbar, and relied upon by foolish people, who abuse all religions, 
who make the oycles of Sindhind, and others, the means by which to 
revile those who warn them that the hour of judgment is coming, and 
who tell them, that on the day of reaurrection there will be reward and 
punishment in yonder world. It is the same set of people who excite 
suspicions against—and bring discredit upon-—nstronomers and mathe- 
tmaticiaus, by counting themeslves among their ranks, and by representing 
themselves as professors of their att, although they cannot even impoes 
upon anybody who has only the elightest degree of scientific training. 

Era of Nabonassar.—The next following era is tho Era of the first 
Nebukednezar (Nabonassar), The Persian form of this word (Bukh- 
tanagger) is Bukht-narei, and people say that it means “one who weeps 
and laments much”; in Hebrew, “ Nebukadnezar,’ which is eaid to 
mean “ Mercury speaking,” this being combined with the notion that 
he oherished ecience and favoured scholsra, Then when the word was 
Arabised, and its form was simplified, people said “ Bukhtanaggar.” 
This is not the same king who devastated Jerusalem, for between these 
two there is an interval of about 143 years, as the following chronological 
tables will indicate. 

The era of this king is based npon the Egyptian years. It is employed 
in the Almpegest for the computation of the places of the planets, becanse 
Ptolemy preferred this era to others, and fixed thereby the mean places 
of the stars, Besides he uses the cyclee of Cellippus, the beginning 
of which is in the year 418 after Bukhtanaggar, and each of which consiste 
of seventy-six solar years. Those who do not know them (these cycles), 
try to prove by what they find mentioned in Almagest, that they are of 
Egyptian origin; for Hipparchus and Ptolemy fix the times of their 
observations by Egyptian days and monthe, and then refer them to the 
corresponding cycles of Callippus. Such, however, is not the case. The 
first cycle, employed by those who compute the months by the revolution 
of the moon and the years by the revolution of the sun, was the cycle of 
eight years, and the second that of nineteen years. Callippus waa of tho 
number of the mathematicians, and one who himself—or whose people— 
considered the use of this latter cycle as part of their laws. Thereupon, 
he computed this cycle (of seventy-six years), uniting for that purpose 
four cycles of nineteen years. 

Some people think that in these cycles the beginning of the months 
was fixed by the appearance of new moon, not by calculation, as people 
at that (remote) age did not yet know the calculation of the eclipses, hy 
which alone the length of ths lunar month is toba determined, and thees 
calculations are rendered perfect ; and that the first who knewthe theory 
of the eclipses was Thales of Miletue. For after having frequently 


p. 27. 


28. 


$2 atintni. 


attended the lectures of the mathematiciane, and having learned from 
them the science of form and motion, (2stronomy}, he proceeded to dis- 
cover the calculation of the eclipses. Then he happened to come to 
Egypt, where he warned people of an impending eclipse. When, then, 
hie prediction had been fulfilled, people honoured him highly. 

The matter, ae thus reported, does not belong to the impossible. For 
each a + goes hack to certain original sources, and the nearer it is to its 
origin, the more simple it ie, till you at last arrive at the very origin 
iteelf. However, this account, that eclipses were not known before 
Thales, must not be underetood in this generality, but with certain local 
reatrictione. For some people refer thia scholar (Thales) to the time of 
Ardashir hen Babak, others to that of Kaikubadh. Now, if he lived at 
the time of Ardashir, he was preceded by Ptolemy and Hipparchus; and 
theee two among the astronomers of that sge knew the subject quite 
sufficiently. If, on the other hand, he lived at tho time of Kaikubadh, 
he stande near to Zoroaster, who belonged to the sect of the Harrinians, 
and to thosa who already before him (Zoroaster) excelled in ecience, and 
had carried it to such a height as that they could not be ignorant of the 
theory of the cclipaes. If, therefore, their report (regarding the dis. 
covery of the theory of the eclipses by Thales) be true, it is not to be 
widerstood in this generajity, but with certain reetrictions, 

Era of Philippus Aridwus.—The era of Philip, the father of 
Aloxander, is based upon Egyptian years. But this erais aleo frequently 
dated from the death of Alexander, the Macedonian, the Founder. In 
both casea the matter is the same, and there is only a difference in the 
exprossion. Because Alexander, the Founder, was eucceeded by Philip, 
therefore, it is the same, whether yon date from the death of the former, 
or the acceasion of the latter, the epoch being a covnecting link common 
to both of them. Those who employ thia era are called dlezandrines. 
On ta‘s era Theon Alexandrinus has based his eo-called * Canon.” 

Era of Alegander,—Then follows the era of Alexander the Greek, to 
whom some people give tie surname Bicornuius. On the difference of 
Opinions regarding this pereonage, I shall enlarge im tho next following 
chapter. Yhis era is based upon Greek years. It is in use among most 
tations. When Alexander had left Greece at the age of twenty-six yeare, 
prepared to fight with Darius, the king of the Persians, and marching 
upon his capital, he went down to Jerusalem, which was inhabited by the 
Jews ; then he ordered the Jewa to give up the era of Moses and David, 
and to use his era instead, and to adopt that very year, the twenty- 
seventh of his life, as the epoch of this era. The Jews oheyed his 
command, and accepted what he ordered; for the Rabbis allowed them 
euch a change at the end of each millennium after Moses, And at that 
time just a millennium had hecome complete, and their offeringa and 
sacrifices had ceased to be practised, 28 theyrelate. So they adopted hie 
era, and used it for fixing all the occurrences of their months and daye, 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF THE ERAS, 33 


as they had already done in tha twenty-sixth year of his life, when he 
first started from home, with tho view of finishing the millennium (i.e. 
ao as not to enter upon a new one). When, then, the first thousand 
yeara of the Aira Alexandri had passed, the end of which did not coin- 
cide with any striking event which people are accustomed to make the 
epoch of an era, they kept the Afra Alexandri, and continued to uee it. 
The Greeks also use it. But according to the report of 1 book, which 
Habib ben Bihriz, the metropolitan of Mosul, has translated, ths Greeks 
used to date-—before they adopted the ra Alexandri—from the migration 
of Yindn ben Paris from Babel towards the west. 

Era of Angustus,—Next follows the era of ths king Augustus, the 
first of the Roman emperors (Ceserce). The word “ Cesar” means in 
Frankish (i.e, Latin) “he has been drawn forth, after 2 cutting has been 
made.” ‘The explanation is this, that his mother died in labour-pains, 
whilst ehe was pregnant with him; then her womb was opened by the 
“ Cesarean operation,” and he was drawn forth, and got the surname 
“ Casar.” He used to boast before the kings, that he had not come out 
of the pudendum muliebre of a2 woman, as also Ahmad ben Sahl ben 
Hashim ben Alwalid ben Hamla ben Kiimkir ben Yazdajird hen 
Sbahryir used to hoast, that the same had happened to him And he 
(Augustus) used to revile people calling them “son of the pudendum 
mulebre.” 

The historians relate, that Jeaus, the son of Mary, was bern in the 
forty-third year of his reign. This, however, does not agree with the 
order of the years. The chronological tables, in which we ehall give a 
corrected sequence of events, necessitate that his birth should have taken 
place in the seventeenth year of his reign. 

It was Augustus who caused the people ef Alexandria te give up their 
system of reckoning by non-intercalated Egyptian yeara, and to adopt 
the system of the Chaldeans, which in our time ia used in Egypt. This 
he did in the sixth year of his reign; thsrefore, they took this yearas 
the epoch of this era. 

Era of Antoninus.—The era of Antoninus, one of the Roman kings, 
was based upen Greek years. Ptolemy corrected the places of the fixed 
stars, dating from the beginning of his reign, and noted them in the 
almogct, directing that their positions should be advanced one degree 
every'year. 

Era of Diocletianus.—Then follows the era of Diocletian, the last of 
the Roman kings who worshipped theidols. After the sovereign pover 
hed been transferred to him, it remained among his descendanta. After 
him reigned Constantine, who was the first Roman king who became a 
Christian, The years of this era are Greek. Severa) authora of Canons 
have used this era, and have fixed thereby the necessary paradigma of 
the prognostice, the Tempora natalicia, and the conjunctions. 

Era of the Flight.—Then follows the era of the Flight of the 


p- 29. 


p. 30. 


ALBIRUNI. 


Prophet Muhammad from Makke to Madina. It is based upon Lunar 
years, in which the commencements of tho months are determined by ths 
appearance of New Moon, nat by calculation. It is used by the whole 
Mohammedan world. The circumstances under which this very point 
was adopted as an epoch, and not the time when the Prophet was either 
born or entrusted with his divine mission or died, wore the following :— 
Maimin beu Mihraén relates, that Omar ben Alkhattab, when people one 
day handed over to him a, cheque payable in the month Shebdn, said :-— 
“Which Sha‘bén is meant? that one in which we are or the next 
Sha‘bin?” Thereupoa he assembled the Companions of the Prophet, 
and asked their advice regarding the matter of chronology, which troubled 
his mind. They answered: “Jt is necessary to inform ourselves of the 
Practice of the Persians in this respect.” Then they fete Hurmuzia, 
and asked him for information. He said: ‘We bave i. computation 
which we call Mdh-ris, ie. the computation of months and days.” People 
ayabized this word, and pronounced ty* (Mw arrakh), and coined as 
its infinitive the word “ Tv'rith.” Hurmuzin explained to them how 
they used this MAh.riz, and what the Greeks used of a similar kind, 
Then Omar spoke to the Companions of the Prophet: “ Eatablish a, mode 
of dating for the intercourss of penple.” Now some said: “ Date ac- 
cording to the era of the Greeks, for they date according to tho era of 
Alexander.” Others objected that this mode of dating was too lengthy, 
and said : “ Date according to the era of the Persians.” But then it was ob. 
jected, that as soon as a new king arises among the Persians ha abolishes 
the era of his predecessor. So they could not come to an agreement, 

Alshe‘bi relates, that ’Abh-MGei Al’ash‘ari wrote to Omar ben 
Alkhattib: “You send us letters without a date.” Omar had already 
organized the registers, had established the taxea and regulations, and 
was in want of an era, not liking the old ones. On this occasion he 
assembled the Companions, and took their advice. Now tho most au- 
thentic date, which involves no obscurities nor possible mishaps, seemed 
to be the date of the flight of the Prophet, and of his arrival at Madina 
on Monday the 8th of the month Rabi‘ I., whilst the heginning of the 
year was a Thursday. Now he adopted this epoch, and fixed thereby tho 
dates in all his affairs. This happened AH. 17. 

The reason why Omar selocted this event as an epoch, and not the 
time of the hirth of the Prophet, or the time when he was entrusted with 
his divine mission, is this, that regarding those two datea there existed 
such a divergenoy of opinion, as did not allow it to be made the hasisof 
something which must be agreed upon universally. 

Further he (Alsha‘bf) eays: People say that He was born in the night 
of Monday the 2nd, or the 8th, or the 18th of Rabi J.; others say that 
he was horn in the forty-sixth year cf the reign of Kiar Anéshirw&n. 
In consequence there is also a difference of opinions regarding the length 
of his ifo, corresponding to the different statements regarding his birth, 


10 


20 


40 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF THE ERAS. 35 


Besides, the single years were of different length, some having been 
intercalated, others not, about the time when interealation was prohibited. 
Considering further that after the Flight, the affaire of Islim were 
thoroughly established, while heatheniem decreased, that the Prophet 
was saved from tho calamitice prepared for him by the infidels of Mpkka, 
and that after tho Flight his eonquests followed each other in rapid 
succession, we come to the conelusion that the Flight was to the Prophet, 
what to the kings is their accession, and their taking possession of the 
whole sovereign power. 

As regards the well known date of his death, people do not like to 
date from the death of a prophet or a king, exeept the prophet be a liar, 
or the king an enemy, whose death people enjoy, and wish to make a 
fentival of ; or he be one of theso with whom a dynasty is extinguished, 
ao that his followers among themselves make thie date a memorial of 
him, and a mourning feast. But this latter cage has only happened very 
seldom. Fg. the era of Alexander the Founder is reckoned from the 
time of his death, he having been considered as one of those from whom 
the era of the kings of the Chaldwans and the western kings wae trana- 
ferred to the era of the Ptolemean kings, of whom each ie called Ptolemy, 
which means warlike, Therefore, those to whom the empire was trans- 
ferred, dated from the time of his death, eonsidering it aa a joyful event. 
It is precisely the sa:ne in the case of the era of Yazdajird ben Shabryar. 
For the Magians datz from the time of his denth, hecause when he 
perished, the dynasiy was extinguished. Therefore they dated from his 
death, mourning over him, and lamenting for the downfal of their 
religion. 

At the time of the Prophet, people had given to each of the years 
between the Flight and his death a spevia) name, derived from some 
event, which had happened to him in that identical year. 


The lst year after the Flight ie “the year of the permission.” 


The 2nd year 33 “the year of the order for fighting.” 

The 3rd year ‘the year of the trial.” 

The 4th year - “the year of the congratulation ou the 
occasion of marniage.” 

The 5th ycar a “the year of the earthquake.” 

The 6th year " * the year of inquiring.” 

The 7th year ” “the year of gaining victory.” 

The 8th year “ the year of equality.” 

The Sth year 8 “the year of exernption.” 

Tho 10th year ” “the ycar of Serewell.” 


By these names it was rendered euperfluous to denote the years by the 
numbers, the let, the 2nd, ete., after the Flight. 

Era of Yuxdejird.—Next follows the era of the reign of Yazdajird 
ben Shahryir ben Kisri Purwiz, which is based upon Persian non- 


8 * 


p. 81, 


86 ALBtront. 


intercalated years. It has heen employed in the Canone, becanse it is 
easy and aimple to use. The reason why precisely the era of thie king 
ameng all the kings of Persia has become se generally known, ie thia 
that he ascended the throne, when the empire had been ehattered, when 
the women had got hold of it, and usurpere had seized all power. 
Beeides, he was the last of their kinge, and it was he with whom Omar 
ben Alkhattih fought most of those famous ware and battles. Finally, 
the empire euccumbed, and he was put to flight and was killed in the 
house of a miller at Marw-i-Shahijin. 

Reform of the Calendar by the Khalif Almu'‘tadid.—Iastly, 
the era of ’Ahmad ben Talha Almn'tadid-billih the Kbalif was based 
upon Greek years and Pereian monthe; however, with this difference, 
that in every fourth year one day waa intercalated. Tho following is the 
origin of this era, as reported by ’Abf-Bakr Algili in hia Hitdb-a?aurdk, 
end by Hamge ben Alhasan Alisiehéni in hie book on famens poema, 
relating to Naurfz and Mihrjan. Almutawakkil, while wandering about 
ever one of hie hunting-grounds, observed corn that had net yet ripened, 
and not yet attained ite proper time fer being reaped. So he said: 
“Ubaid-ullah ben Yahyé has asked my permission fer levying the taxes, 
whilat I observe that the corn ia still green. From what then are people 
to pay their taxes?” Thereupon he was informed, that this, in fact, had 
done a great deal of harm to the pcople, so that they were compelled to 
berrew and to incur debts, and even to emigrate from their homer ; that 
they had many complaints and wrongs to recount. Then the Khalif 
said: ‘ Has this ariscn lately during my reign, or haa it alwaye been 60 P” 
And people answered: “No. Thie is goirg on according to the regala- 
tions establiched by the Persian kinge for the levying of the taxea at the 
time of Naurdz. In this their example has been foilewed by the kings 
of the Arabs.” Then the Khalif ordered the Maubadh to be brought 
before him, and said to him: “Thie bas been the enbject ef much re- 
seareh on my part, xnd I cannot find that I violate the regulations of 
the Pereiane. Hew, then, did they levy the taxee from their eubjecte— 
considering the beneficence and good will which they observed towards 
them? And why did they allow the taxes to be levied at a time like 


» this, when tho fruit and corn ere not yet ripe?” To this the Maubadh 


replied; “ Although they alwaye levied the taxes at Nauris, this never 
happened except at the time when the corn waa ripe.” The Khalif 
asked: ‘And how was that?” Now the Maubadh explained to him the 
nature of their yeare, their different lengths, and tbeir need of intercala- 
tien. Then he procceded to relate, that the Pereiang used to intercalate 
the yeara; but when Islam had been eetbliched, intercalation was 
aboliehed ; and that did much barm to the people. The landholders 
assembled at the time of Hishfim ben ‘Abdalnalik and called on Khflid 
Alkasri; they oxplained to him the eubjeot, aud arked him to postpone 
Nauris bys menth. Khilid declined to do so, but reperted on the 


10 


80 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE NATURE OF THE ERAS. 37 


aubject to Hishim, vho said: “I am afraid, that to thia anhject may bo 
applied the word of God. “ Intercalation is only an tnerecse of heathenism” 
(Siva ix. 87). Afterwards at the time of Alrashid the landholders as- 
eembled again and called on Yahya hen Khalid ben Barmak, asking him 
to postpone Nauriz by about two months. Now, Yahya bad tho inten- 
tion to do eo, but then his enemies began to epeak of the aubject, and 
anid: ‘He is partial to Zoroastrianism.” Therefore he dropped the 
subject, and the matter remained as it waa before. 

Now Almutawakkil ordered Ibrahim hen Al‘abbia Algili to be brought 
before him, and told bim, that in accordance with what the Maubadh had 
related of Nauriiz, he should compute the days, and compose a fixed 
Canon (Calendar) ; that he should compose a paper on the poetponement 
of Nauriz, which was to be sent by order of the Khalif to all the 
provinces of the empire. 1¢ was determined to postpone Naurtiz till the 
17th of Hazirin. Algili did ‘as he was ordered, and the Iettera arrived 
in the provincea in Muharram a.x. 248. The poet, Albuhturf has com- 
posed a Kasida on the subject in praise of Almutawalkil, where he 
AByS — : 

“The day of Nauriz has returned to that time, on which it waa fixed by 
Ardaahir. 

Thou hast trausferred Nauriz to its original condition, whilst before 

thee it waa wandering about, circulating. 

Now thou hast levied the taxes at Nauriz, and that was a memorable 

benefit to the people. 

They bring thee praise and thanks, and thou hringest them justico 

and a present, well deserving of thanke.” 


However, Almutawakkil was killed, and hie plan was not carried out, 
until Almu‘tadid aecended the throne of the Khalifate, delivered the 
provinces of the empire from their usurpers, and gained eufficient leisure 
to atudy the affuire of his subjects. He attributed the greatest import- 
ance to intercalation and to the carrying out of thia meaaure. He 
followed the method of Almutawakkil regarding the postponement of 
Naurfz; however he treated the subject differently, inasmuch as Almu- 
tawakkil had made the basis of his computation the interval between Ais 
year (i.e. that year, in which be then happened to live), and the beginning 
of the reign of Ya2dajird, whilat Almu‘tadid took the iuterval betwoen 
hia yexr and that year in which the Persian empire perished by the death 
of Yazdajird, because he—or those who did the work for him—held thia 
opinion, that eizce that time intercalation had been neglected. This 
interval he found to be 243 yeara and 60 daye+a fraction, arising from 
the day-quasters (exceeding the 865 days of the Solar year). These 60 
daya he added at Naurdz of his year, and put Naurfiz at the end of 
them, which fell upon 2 Wedneaday, the let Khurdidh-Mah of that year, 
coinciding with the Ith of Hazirin. Thereupon he fixed Nauriiz in the 


p. 83 


38 aLBinont. 


Greek months for this purpose, that the months of fia year should be 
intercalated at the same time whon the Grecks intercalate their years. 
The man who was entrusted with carrying out his orders, was his Wazir 
*Ahi-alkasim ‘Ubaid-allih hen Sulaiman ben Wahb. To this sabject 
the following vorscs of the astronomer ‘Ali ben Yahy4 refer :— 


“O thou restorer of the untarnished glory, renovator of the shattered 

empire! 

Who hast again established among us tho pillar of religion, after it had 
heen tottering ! 

Thou hast surpassed all the kings like the foremost horse in a race. 

How hlessed is that Nauriz, when thon hast earned thanks besides 
the reward (duo to thee for it in heaven)! 

By postponing Nauriz thou bast justly made preceds, what they had 
postponed.” 


On the same subject ‘Alt hen Yahy& says:— 


“ The day of thy Nauriz is one and the same day, not liable to moving 


backward, 
Always coinciding with the 11th of Hazirin.” 


Now, although in bringing about this measure much ingenuity has 
been displayed, Naurdz has not therehy returned to that place which it 
occupied at the time when intercalstien was stil) practised in the Pervian 
empire. For the Persians had already begun to neglect their intercalation 
nearly seventy years before the death of Yazdajird. Because at the 
time of Yazdajird hen Shipdr they had intercalated into their year two 
months, one of them as the necessary compensation for that space of 
time, hy which the year had moved backward (it heing tooehort). The 
five Epagomena they put as a mark at the end of thia intercalary month, 
and tha turn had just come to Ahin-Mih, as we shall explain hereafter. 
The second month they intercalated with regard to the future, that no 
other intercalation might he needed for a long period, 

Now, if you subtraet frou ihe sum of the years hetween Yazdajird ben 
Shipir and Yazdajird ben Shahryd4r 120 years, you get a remainder of 
nearly—hut not sxactly—-70 years; there is much uncertainty and con- 
fusion in the Persian chronology. The Portio intercalanda of these 70 
years would amount to nearly 17 days.. Therefore it would have heen 
necessary, if we calculate without mathematical accuracy, to postpone 
Nauriz not 60, but 77 days, in order that it might coincide with tho 
28th of Haziran. Ths man who worked out this reform, was of opinion, 


that the Persian method of intercalation waa similar to the Greek method. - 


Therefore he computed the days since the extinction of their empire. 
Whilst in reality the matter is a different one. as we have already ox- 
plained, and shall more fully explain hereafter. : 

This is the last of those eras that have become celebrated. But 


10 


80 


10 


20 


80 


4 


ON THE NATURE OF THE ERAS 39 


perhaps some other nations, whose countries are far distant from oure, 
have eras of their own, which have net been handed dewn to posterity, 
or such eras as are new obselete. Fer instance, the Persians in the time 
of Zoroastrianism used te date successively hy the years of the reign of 
each of their kings. When a king died, they dropped his era, and 
adopted that of hie snccessor. The duration of the reigns of their kings 
we have atated in the tahles which will follow hereafter. 

Epochs of the Ancient Arabs —As 2 second instance we mention 
the Ishmaclite Arabe. For they used to date from the construction of 
the Ke‘ha by Abraham and Ishmael till the time when they were dis- 
persed and left Tihima. Those who went away dated from the time of 
their exodus, whilst those who remained in the country dated from the 
time when the last party of the emigrants had left. But afterwards, 
after a long course of time, they dated from the year when the chieftain. 
ship devolved upon ‘Amr hen Rabi‘a, known by the name of ‘Amr ben 
Yahya, who is said to have changed the religion of Abraham, to have 
brought from the city of Balkéthe ide! Hubal, and to have himself made 
the idols *Isif and Na'ila. This is said to have happened at the time of 
Shapir Dhf-al’aktéf This synchronism, however, is not borne out by 
the comparison of the chronological theories of hoth sides (Arabs and 
Persians), 

Afterwards they dated from the death of Ka‘ hen Lu’ayy—till the 
Yeas of Treason, tn which the Bant-¥arbi' stole certain gannents which 
eome of the kings of Himyar sent to the Ka‘ba, and when a general 
fighting among the people occurred at the time of the holy pilgrimage. 
Thereupon they dated frow the Year of Treason till the Year of the Ele- 
phants, in which the Lord, when the Ethiopians were coming on with the 
intention of destroying the Katha, brought down the consequences of 
their cunning enterprise npon their own necks, and annihilated them. 
Thereupon they dated from the era of the Hijra. 

Some Arabe used to date from famoue accidents, and from celebrated 
daya of hattle, which they fought among themselves. As such epochs 
the Rani-Kuraieh, e.g. had the following ongs :—- 


1, The day of Alfijar in the sacred month. 

2. The day of the Confederacy of Alfuddl, in which the contracting 
parties hound themselves to assist all those to whom wrong was done. 
Because the Bani-Kuraish committed wrong and violence against each 
other within the holy precinct of Makin. 

8 The year of the death of Hishim hen Almughfra Almakhzimf, 
for the celobration of his memory. 

(4) The year of the reconstruction of the Ka‘ba, by order of the 
Prophet Muhammad. 

The tribes ’Aus and Khazraj used the following days as epochs :— 

1. The day of Alfadé. 


p.34. 


p. 35. 


40 ALBirint, 


. The day of Alrahit. 

» The day of Alrulsiba. 

Tho day of Alearéra. 

The day of Dabis and Ghabri. 

. The day of Bughath. 

. The day of Hatib. 

. The day of Madris and Mu‘abhis. 


Among the tribes Bakr and Taghlib, the twu sons of Wail, the 
folowing epochs were used :— 


1, The day of ‘Unaiza. 

2. Tho day of Alhinw. 

8. The day of Tablak-allimam. 
4. The day of Alkugaibat. 

5. The day of Alfasil. 


These and other “ war-days” were used as epochs among the different 
tribes and claps of the Arahe. Their names refer to the places where 
they were fought, and to their causes. 

If, now, these eras were kept in the proper order in which chronological 
subjects are to be treated, wa should do with them the same that we 
intend to do with all the other subjects connected with eras. However, 
people say that between the year of the death of Ka'b hen Lu‘ayy and 
the year of Treason there is an interval of 520 years, and between the 
year of Treason and tne year of the Elephants an interval of 110 years. 
The Prophet was horn 50 years after the invasion of the Ethiopians, 
and between his birth and the year of Alfijir there were 20 years. At 
this battle the Prophet was present, as he haa said himself: ‘I was 
present on the day of Alfijar. Then I shot at my uncles.’ Between 
the day of Alfijir and the reconstruction of the Ka‘ba there are 15 years, 
and 5 yeara hetween the reconstruction of the Ka‘ba and the time 
when Muhammed wae entrusted with his divine mission. 

Likewise the Himyarites and the Bani Kahyan used to date by the 
Teigns of their Tubha‘e, as the Persians by the reigns of their Kisris, 
and the Greeks by the reigns of their Caesars. However, the rule of 
the Himyarites did not always proceed in complete order, and in their 


CONT Ore fo 00 


_chronology there is much confusion. Notwithstanding, we have stated 


the duration of the reigns of their kings in our tables, as aiso those 
of the kings of the Bant-Lakhm, who inbahited Hira, and were settled 
there, and had mado it their home. 

Chorasmian Antiquities In a similar way the people of Khwé- 
rizm proceeded. For they dated from the heginning of the colonization 
of their country, a. 980 before Alexander. Afterwards they adopted 
ag the epoch of an era the event of the coming of Siyawush hen 
Kaiki'fis down to Khwarizm, and the rule of Kaikhusri, and of his 


10 


30 


10 


20 


40 


OX THE NATURE OF THE ERAS. 41 


descendants over the country, dating from the time when ho immigrated 
and extend:d his sway over the empire of the Turks. This happened 
92 years after the colonization of the country. 

At a later time they imitated the example of the Persians in dating 
hy the yeare of the reign of each king of the line of Kaikhuard, who 
ruled over the country, and who waa called by the title of Shdhiyo. 
This went on down to the reign of Afrigh, one of the kings of that 
family. Hie name was conaidered a bad omen like that of Yazdajird 
the Wicked, with the Persians. His eon succeeded him in tho rule of 
the country. Hoe (Afrigh) built hie castle behind Alfir, A. Alexandri 
616. Now people began to date from him and his children (i.e. by the 
yeara of hie reign and that of his descendants). 

This Alfir was a fortress on the outekirta of the city of Khwirizm, 
built of clay and tiles, consisting of three forts, one heing built within 
the other, and all three being of equal height; and rising ahove the 
whole of it were the royal palaces, very much like Ghumdan in Yaman 
at the time when if was the residence of the Tubba‘'a For this Ghum- 
din was a castle in San‘i, opposite the great mosque, founded upona 
rock, of which people say that it was built by Sem ben Noah after the 
Deluge. In the castle there is a cistern, which he (Sem) had digged. 
Others think that it was a temple built by Aldabhik for Venus. This 
Alfir was to be seen from the distance of 10 miles and more. It was 
broken and shattered by the Oxus, and was swept away piece hy piece 
every year, till the last remains of it had disappeared A. Alexandri 
1805. 

Of thie dynasty was reigning at the time when the Prophet was 
entrusted with his divine mission — 

10. Arthamikh ben 
9. Bazkdr ben 
8. Khimgri ben 
7. Sbhiwush ben 7 
6. Sakbr hen 2 
5. Azkajawir ben {+ 
4, Askajamék ben = 
3. Salhassak hen 
2. Baghra ben 
1. Afrigh. 


When Kutaiba ben Muslim had conquered Khwirizm the second time, 
after the inhabitante had rchelled, he constituted as their king— 
14. Askajamik hen * 
13. Azkfjawar ben 
12. Sabri ben 
11, Sakbr hen *" 
10, Axthamtkh, 


p. 86. 


42 arpirnoyt. 


and appointed him as their SAdh. ‘the descendants of the KisrAs lost 
the offica of the “ Wali” (the governorship), but thoy retained the 
office of tho SAdh, it being hereditary among them. And they accommo- 
dated themselves to dating from the Hijra according to the uss of the 
Muslims. 

Kutaiba ben Muslim had extinguished and ruined in every possible 
way all those who knew bow to writo and to read the Khwarismf writing, 
who Imew ths history of the country and who studied their sciences. 
In consequence these things are involved in eo much obscurity, that it ia 
impossibls to ohtain an aceurate Imowledge of the history of the 
country eince the time of Islam (not to speak of pre-Muhammsadan 
timss), 

The Wildya (governorship) remained sfterwards alternately in the 
hands of this family and of others, till the time when they lost both 
Wiliya (governorship) and Shihiyya (Sh&hdom), after the death of the 


22. "Abd ‘Abdallah Mubammed ben 

21. Ahmad ben 

20. Muhammad ben 

19. ‘Trak ben 

18. Mangdr ben 

17. ‘Abdallah ben 

16, Turkasbitha ben 

15. Shawushfar ben 

14, Asinjamik ben 

18. Azkéjawir ben 

12, Sabri ben ¥ 

11. Sakbr ben 

10. Arthamikh, in whose time, as I have said, the Prophet was 

entrusted with his divine mission. 
Thia is all I could ascertain regarding the celebrated eras ; to know 

them all is impossible for a human being. God helps to the right 
insight. 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


CHAPTER IV. 


THE DIFFERENT OPINIONS OF VARIOUS NATIONS REGARDING THE ENO 
CALLED DE-ALEABNAINI OR BICORNUTUS, 


We must explain in s separate chapter what poople think of the bearer 
of this name, of Dhi-alkaruaini, for the auhject interrupts, in this 
part of the course of our exposition, the order in which our chronology 
would have to proceed, 

New it has been said, thet the story about him as contained in tha 
Koran, is well-known and intelligible to everybody who reads tha verses 
specially devoter to his history. The pith and marrow of it is this, that 
he was a good and powerful mau, whom God had gifted with extra. 
ordinary authority and power, and whose plans he had crowned with 
success both in east and west ; he conquered cities, subdued countries, 
reduced his subjects to submission, and united the whole empire under 
his single sway. He is generally assumed to haves entered the darkness 
in the north, to have seen the remotest frontiers of the inhahitable 
world, to have fought both against men and demons, to have passed 
between Gog and Magog, so as to cut off their communication, to have 
marched out towards the countries adjoining their territory in the east 
and north, to have restrained and repelled their mischievous inroads by 
means of @ wall, construeted in 3 mountain-pass, whence they used to 
pour forth. It was huilt of iron-blochs joined by molten hrass, aa is 
still now the practice of artisans. 

‘When Alaxander, the son of Philip, Alyinini (i.¢. the Ionian, mean- 
ing the Greek) had united under his sway the Greek empire (Zit. the 
empire of the Romans), which had previously consisted of single prin- 
cipalities, he marched against the princes of the weat, overpowering and 
subduing them, going as far as the Green Sea. Thereupon he returned 
to Egypt, where he founded Alezandris, giving it his own name. Then 


30 he marched towards Syria and the Israelites of the country, went down 


}: 8 


44 ALBinont, 


to Jerusalem, sacrificed in its temple und made offerings. Thence ho 
turned to Armenia and Bab-al’abwab, and passed even beyond it. The 
Copta, Berbers, and Hebrews obeyed him. Then he marcbed against 
DAra, the eon of D&ra, in order to take yavenge for all the wrongs which 
Syria had suffered at the hands of Bukhtanagsar (Nebukndnezzar) and 
the Babylonians. He fought with him and put him to flight several 
times, and in one of those battlea DArd was killed by the chief of hia 
hody-guard, called Nanjushanaa ben Adharbakht, whereupon Aloxander 
took posseasion of the Persian ompire. Then he went to India and 
China, making war upon the moat distant nations, and subduing all the 
tracts of country through which he passed. Thence he returned to 
Khurieha, conquered it, and built several towne. On returning to 
‘Irik he became ill in Shahrasiir, and dicd. In all his enterprises he 
acted under the guidance of philosophical] principles, and in all his plana 
he took the advice of his teacher, Aristotle. Now, on account of all 
this he has been thought to be Dhf-alkarnaini, or Bicornutus. 

As to the interpretation of thie surname, people say he was called so 
because he reached the two “horns” of the sun, ie. his rising and 
eotting places, just ae Ardashir Beabman was called Longimanus, becanse 
hie command was cmnipotent, wherever he liked, as if he had only to 
stretch out his hand in order to set things right. 

According to others he was called so because he descended from two 
different “ generations” (#é horne) ¢.e. the Greeka and Porsians. And 
on this subject they-have adopted the vagus opinions which the Persians 
have devised in a hoetile epirit, vis. that Dara the Great hed married 
hia mother, a daughter of King Philip, hut she had an offensive odour, 
which he could not endure, and eo he sent her back to her father, she 
being pregnant; that he wae called a son of Philip, simply because the 
latter had educated him. This etory of theirs they try to prove by the 
fact, that Alexander, when he reached Dara, who was expiring, put his 
head on his lap and epoke to him: “ O my brother, tell me, who did this 
to you, that I may take revenge for you?” But Alexander eo addressed 
him only because he wanted to be kind towards him, and to represent 
him (Dara) and himself ee brethren, it heing impossible to addreae him 
aa king, or to call him by his name, both of which would have betrayed 
a high dogree of rudenece unbecoming a king. 

On Real and Forged Pedigrees.—However, enemies are always 
eager to revile the parentage of people, to detract from their reputation, 

and to attack their deeds and merits, in the same way as friends and 
partizans are eager to embellish that which ie ugly, to cover up the weak 
parte, to proclaim publicly that which is noble, and to refer everything 
to great virtues, aa the poet describes them in these words :— 


‘The eye of benevolence is blind to every fault, 
But the eye of hatred discovers every vice.” 


10 


20 


80 


40 


THE KING CALLED BICORNUTUS. 45 


Obstinacy in this direction frequently leads people to invent landatory 
stories, and to forge genealogies which go back to glorious ancestors, as p. 38, 
has been done, ¢.g. for Ibr ‘Abdalrazz4k Altisi, when he got mado for 
himself a genealogy out of ths Shabnima, which mskes him descend 
from Minéshsihr, and also for the house of Buwaihi. For ’Abfi-’Ishik 
‘TIbrihim ben Hila) Alsibi, in his book called Alfdj (tho crown), makes 
Bowaibi descend from Babrim Gir by the following line of ancestors -— 

I. Buwaili. 
Fanakhuert. 

10 Thamin. 

Kahi. 

V. Shirzil junior. 
Shirkedhs. 
Shirzil senior. 
Shirfinshah. 
Shirfana. 

X. Sasaninshéb. 


20 Sasanidhar. 
XIV. Bahrim Gir the king. 


*Abh-Muhammad Alhasan ben ‘Ali ben Niind in his epitome of the 
histary of the Buwaihides, says that— 
IL. Buwaihi was ths son of 
Fanikhusra, the son of 
Thamin. 
Then some people continue— 
Thaman, the son of 
Kah, the son of 
80 V. Shirzil junior ; 
whilst others drop Kahi, 
Then they continue— 
Shiezil sesior, the son of 
Shiriushih, ths son of 
Shiriina, the son of 
Sasanfinshah, the son of 
X. Sasankhurra, the son of 
Shazil, the son of 
Sasanddhsr, the son of 
40 XIU. Babrim 
Further, people disagree regarding this Bahrim. Those who give the 
Buwaihides a Persian origin, contend that he was BahrAm Gar, and 
continue the enumeration of his ancestors (down to the origin of the 


46 aLptrout. 


fasnily Siisin), whilst othera who give them au Arabic origin, say that 
he was— 

Babrim ben 

Aldahhak ben 

APabyad ben 

Mu‘éwiya ben 

Aldailam ben 

Basil ben 

Babba ben 

"Dad. 


Others, again, mention among tks series of ancestors— 
Lahti hen 
Aldailam ben 
Baail, 
and maintain thet from this name his gon Laythaj derived his name. 
He, however, who considers what I have laid down at the beginning 
of this book, as the conditio sine gud non for the knowledge of ths 
*proper mean between disparagement and exaggeration, and the necessity 
of the greatest carefulneas for everybody who wants to give a fair 
jndgment, will be aware of the fact, that the fir.t member of thia family 
who hecame celebrated was Buwaihi ben Fanikhnsra. And it is not at 
all known that thoss tribes were particularly careful in preserving and 
continuing their genealogical traditions, nor that they knew anything 
like this of the family Buwaihi, before they came into power. It very 
rarely happens that genealogies are preserved without any interruption 
during long period of time. In such cases the only possible way of 
distinguishing a just claim to some noble descent from a false one is 
the agreement of all, and the assent of the whole generation in ques- 
tion regarding that subject. An instance of this is the lord of 
mankind,— 
I. Muhammad, for he is the son of 
‘Abd-alléh ben 
‘Abd-almuttalib ben 
Hishim ben 
¥. ‘Abd-Manaf ben 
Kusayy ben 
Kilfb ben 
Murra ben 
Ka‘b ben 
X. Lwayy ben 
Ghé'ib ben 
Bihr ben : 
Malik ben 
Alnadr ben 


1 


20 


THE KING CALLED BICORNUTUS. 47 


XV. Kinfns ben 
Khugsime ben 
Mudrike ben 
"Tyas ben 
Mndar ben 
XX. Nizér ben 
Ma‘sdd ben 
XX. ‘Adnan. 
Nobody in the world donbts this lineage of ancestors, as they do not 
10 doubt either, that he descends from Ishmael, the son of Abraham, The p. 39, 
ancestry beyond Abraham is to be found in the Thora, However, 
regarding the link of parentage between ‘Adndn and Ishmael thers is & 
eonsiderable divergence of opinions, inasmuch as some people consider 
asthe father the person whom otbers take for the son, and vice versed, 
and as they add considerably in soms places, and leave out in others, 
Further as to our master, the commander, the prince, the glorious and 
victorious, the benefactor, Shams.alma‘ali, may God give hima long 
life, not one of bis friends, whom may God help, nor any of hiq 
opponents, whom may God desert, denies his noble and ancient descent, 
20 well established on both sides, although his pedigree back to the origin 
of hia princely family has not been preserved without any interruption. 
On the one sids he descends from Wardinshih, whose nobility is 
well-known throughout Ghilin; and this prince had a son, besides 
the prince, the martyr Mard4wij. People say, that the son ef Ward&n- 
shih obeyed the orders of ’Asfar ben Shirewaibi, and that it was he, 
who suggested to him (his brother Mardawij) the idea of delivering the 
people from thse tyranny and oppression of ’Asfir. On the other 
side he descends from the kings of Media, called the Ispahbada of 
Khurisin and the Farkhwarjarshabis. And it has never been denied falas) 
80 that those among them, who belonged to the royal house of Peraia, 
claimed to have a pedigrees which unites them and the Kisras into ons 
family, For his uncle is the Ispahbad— 
I, Rustam ben 
gty® ben 
Rustam bea 
Kérin ben 
V. Shahryar ben 
vip® ben 
Surkhab ben 
#0 ry) ben 
Shaptr ben 
X. Kays ben 
XI. Kubédh, who was the father of Anéshirwan, 


May God give to our master? the empire from east and west over all 


48 ALBIRO NG. 


the parts ef the world, as be has assigned him a noble origin on both 
sides. (lod’s is the power to do it, and al] goed comes from him. 

The same applies to the kings ef Khurisin. For nobody contests the 
fact, that the first of this dynasty— 


I. Ismé‘ll was the sen of 
"Ahmad ben 
*Asad ben 
S&émin-khudah ben 

V. glows ben 
soleab ban 
apy ben 
Bahrim Shibtn hen 

XX. Babrim Jnahanas, the commander of the marches of Adhar- 
baijan. 

The same applies further to the original Shihs of Khwirizm, who 
belonged to the royal house (of Persia), and to the Shikhs of Shirwin, 
because it is believed by common consent, that they are Qescendants of the 
Kisriis, although their pedigree has not been preserved uninterruptedly, 

The fact that claims to some noble lineage, and also to other matters, 
are-just and well founded, always becomes known somchow or other, 
even if people try to conceal it, being like musk, which spreads ita odour, 
although it be hidden. Under such circumstances, therefore, if people 
want to settle their genealogy, it is not necessary to spend money and to 
make presents, as ‘Ubaid-allah ben Alhasan ben ’Ahmad hen ‘Abdallah 
ben Maimdn Alkaddah did’ to ths gencalogists among the party ef the 
Alides, when they declared his claim of @escent from them to be a lie, 
at tho time when he came forward in Maghrib ; finally he succeeded in 
contenting them and in making them silent. Notw.thstanding the truth 
is well known to the student, although the fabricated tale has been far 
spread, and although his descendants are powerful enough to suppress 
any contradiction. That one of them, who reigns in our time, is "Abd- 
‘AK ben Nizar ben Ma‘add ben ‘Isma‘il ben Muhammad ben ‘Ubaid- 
allih the usurper. 

Ihave enlarged on this subject only in order to show how partial 
people are ta those whem they like, and how hostile towards those whom 
they hate, so that frequently their exaggeration in either direetion leads 
to the discovery of their infamous designs. 

That Alexander wes the son of Philip is a fact, too per to be 
coneealed. His pedigree is stated by the most celehrated genealogists 
in this way :— 

L. (wild Philip, 
wy 
u~t? Hermes, 
ue 


i0 


20 


80 


10 


20 


THE KING CALLED BICORNUTOS. 49 


V. yee = Meton. 
wD) Rome. 
oss Yanan. 
osk = Yafeth. 

% ofr 
Sory Riimiya. 
&y Byzantium 
Jed = Theophil. 

a) Rome. 
XV. yo} APasfar. 
jolt Elifaz. 
west Esau. 
(Sant Isaak, 


XIX. petal Abraham. 


According to another tradition Dhi-alkarnaini was a man, called 
ou-Sh\, who marched against Simirus, one of the kings of Bahel, fought 
with him, made him a prisoner and killed him; then he stripped off 
the skin of his head together with his hair and his two curls, got it 
tanned, and used itasacrown. Therefore, he was called Dhf-alkarnaini 
(Bicornutus). According to another version he is identical with 
Almundhir ben Ma-aleami, i.e. Almundhir hen Imrw’ulkais. 

Altogether the most curious opinions are afloat regarding the bearer 


~ of this‘name, that, eg. his mother was a demon; which is likewise 


30 


believed of Bilkts, for peeple say that her mother was a demon, and of 
‘Abdallih ben Hila] the juggler, for he was thought to be the devil’s 
son-in-law, being married to his daughter. Such and similar ridiculous 
stories people produce, and they are far known. 

It is related, that ‘Umar ben Alkhattib, when be heard one day people 
entering into a profouud discussion on Dhi-alkarnaini, said, * Was it not 
enough for you, to plunge into the stories on human beings, that you 
must pass into another field and draw the angels into the discussion r ” 

Some say, a3 Ibn Dursid mentions in his Kitib-alwishis, that Dhi- 
alkarnaini was Alsa‘b ben Albhamini? Alljimyari, whilst others take him 
for "Abi-karib Shammar Yur'ish ben ’Ifrtkis Alhimyart, and believe 
that he was called so cn account of two curls which hung down upou 
his shoulders, that he reached tho east and west of the earth, and 
traversed its north and south, that he subdued the countries, and 
reduced tho people to complete subjection. It is this prince about whom 
one of the princes of Yaman, ’As‘ad ben ‘Amr beu Rabi‘s bep Milik 
ben Subaih ben ‘Abdallih hen Zaid hen Yisiy ben Yun‘im Alhimyari 
boasts in his poems, in which he says :-—— 


 Dhi-alkarnaini was before me, a true believer, an exalted king on p. 41. 


the earth, novsr subject to onyhody. 


50 ALBinont. 


He went to the countries of the east and weet, always seeking 
imperial power from a libora) and beuntifvl (Lord). 

Then he eaw the setting-placo of the sun, at the time when heseta 
in tho well of fovor-water and of badly emelling mud. 

Before him there was Bilkis, my aunt, until her empire came te an 
end by the hoapoo.” 

Now it scems to me that of all these versions the last is the true one, 
becansa the princes, whose names begin with the word Dhi, occur only 
in the history of Yaman and nowhere else. Their names are always a 
compound, the first part of which is the woed Dhi, eg., Dhd-almandr, 
Dhi-al’adh‘tiy, Dhé-alshanitir, Dhi-Nuwis, Dhi-Jadan, Dh6-Yazan, 
and others. Besides, tha traditions regarding this Yaman prince, Dhi- 
alkarnsini, resemble very mnch that which ie related of bim in the 
Koran. As te the rammrt which he constructed between the two walls, 
it must be stated that the wording of the Koran does not indicate its 
geographica} situation. We learn, however, from the geographical 
worke, as Jighrdfiye and the Jtineraria (the books called Maadlik wa- 
mamélik, i.e. Itinera, et regna), that this nation, vis. Yijij and Majij 
are a tribs of the eastern Turks, who live in the most southern parta of 
the Sth and 6th xAjvara. Besides, Muhammad ben Jari Altabart 
relates in his chronicle, that the prince of Adharbaijan, at the timo 
when the country was conqnered, bad sent a man to find the rampart, 
from the direction of the country of the Khazars, that this man saw the 
rampart, and described it as o very lofty building of dark colons 
situated bebind o moat of solid struetaro and impregnable, - : 

‘Abdallah ben ‘Abdallah ben Khurdadhbih relates, on the authority of 
the dragoman at the court of the Khalif, that Almu‘tagim dreamt one 
night, that this rampart had been epened (rendered accessible), There- 
fore he cent out fifty men to inspect it. They set out from the road 
which leads io Bab-al’abwih, and to the countrre of the Lin and 
Khazar; finally they arrived at the rampart, and found that it was con- 
structed of iron tiles, joined together by molten brass, and with a bolted 
gate. Its garrison consisted of people of the neighbouring countriee. 
Then they returned, and the guide led them out into the district 
opposite Samarkand. 

From these two reports, it is evident that the rampart must be 
situated in the north-west quarter of tho inhabitable earth. However, 
especially in this latter report, there is something which venders its 
authenticity doubtful, viz. the description of the inhabitants of that 
country, that they are Muslims and speak Arabic, although they are 
without the slightest connection with the civilized -world, from which 
th-v are separated by a black, badly smelling country of the extent of 
many days’ travelling; further, that they were totally ignorant as to 
both Khalif and the Khalifate. Whilet we know of no other Muslim 
nation which is separated from the territory of Islam, except the 


10 


20 


80 


40 


TOE KING CALLED BICORNUTUS. dl 


Builghir and the Sawir, who live towards the end of the civilized world, 
in ths most northern part of the 7th «Aja. And these people do not 
make the least mention of such 2 rampart, and they are well acqnainted 
with the Khalifate and the Khalifs, in whose namo they read even the p, 42. 
Khutha; they do not speax Arabic, hut a language of their own, a 
mixture of Turkish and Khazari. If, therefore, this report reste on 
teatimontes of this sort, we do not wish to investigate thereby the 
truth of the subject. 

This is what I wished to propound regarding Dhi-alkarnaini. Allih 

10 knows best! 


52 aretrint. 


CHAPTER VY. 
ON TRE NATURE OF THE NONTRS WRICH ARE UeED IN THE PEECEDING 
ERAS, 


Heretorort I have mentioned already that every nation uses a epecial 
sraof itsown. And in tbe same degree as they differ in the uae of the 
eras, they differ regarding the heginning of the months, regarding the 
number of daye of each of them, and the reasons aesigned therefor. 
Of this gubject, I mention what I havo learnt, and do not attempt to find 
out what Ido not know for certain, and regarding which I have no 


information from a trustworthy person. And firet we give the months 
of the Persians. 


Months of the Peraians.—The number of the months of one year 
is twelve, as God has said in his hook (Sura iz. $6): “ With God the 
numbsr of the months was twelvsa months, in the book of God, on the 
day when God created the heavens and the earth.” On this subject 
there is no difference of opinion between the nations, except in the leap- 
years. 8o tbe Persians have twelve months of the following names:— 

Farwardin Mah. 


Mibr Mah, 
Ardibahisht Mah. Aban Mab. 
Khurdadh Mah, Adhar Mah. 
Tir Mah. Dai Mah. 
Mourdadh Mah. Bahman Mah. 
Shahréwar Mah. Isiaendavmadh Mah. 


I have heard the geometrician “Aba Sa‘té ‘Ahmad ben Muhammad 
ben ‘Abd.aljalil Alsijzt relating of the ancient inhabitants of Sijistin, 


that they called these months by other names and commenced likewise 
with Farwardin Mab. The names are these— 


Lats mr Ju 
oe) VW hes 35 


10 


20 


GN THE NATORE OF MONTES. 58 


Vi. Type IX. ths} 
was 
ple XII. phe : 


Every one of the Persian months has 80 daye, and to onch day of a p. 43. 
month thoy give a special name in their language. Theso aro the 
names— 


1 Hurmuz. XL Khir. XXI. Ram. 
Rahman. Mah. Badh, 

10 Ardibahisht. Tir. Dai-ha-din. 
Shahréwar. Géeb. Din. 
Isfandarmadh. Dai-ba-mihr. Ard. 

VI. Khurdadh. XVI. Mibr. XXXVI. Ashtidh. 
Murdadh Srésh. Asmin 
Dai-ba-Adhar Raehn. Zamyidh 
Adhar Farwardin, Mitrasfand 
Aban. Bahrim. Anirin. 


There is no difference among tho Persians as to the namea of these 

daye; they are the same for every month, and they follow in the same 
20 order. Only the days Hurmuz and Aniriin are called by some, the 
former Forrukh, the latter Bih-réz. 

The sum total of tha daya is 360, whilst, as we have already observed 
heretofore, the real year (i.e. the mean solar or tropical year) has 
365} daye. Those additional five days they called Fanjé (Panji) and 
Andargah, arahized Andasjak ; they are alao called Alnasriifa and Almus- 
taraga (i.e. qatpar xAortparar), oD account of their not being reckoned 
as part of any one of the monthe. They added them between Abin 
Mah and Adbsr Mah, and gave them names, which are different from 
those of the daysofeach month. These names I never read in two booke, 

30 nor heard them from two men, in the same way ; they are these— 


I. aSacot IT. Saat ODT. aul IV. trent Vi. t\htoteg 
In another hook I found them in the following form : 
I. dpe} TE. Syat TT. Moat IV, pest Vi eataginady 


The author of the Kvtdb.alghurra, Alné’ib Aldmuli gives them these 
names— 
L aye ID, Spt TED, Seessaat TV. yiteyngty Vi. ewtquentdy p. 44, 
Zédawaihi hen Shahawaihi in hie book on the cauecs of the festivals 
of the Parsians, mentions them in this form— 


Z, dxbgt dqus TI. audatl aged THD, dtm 2} daptd 
40 TV. ghey) 495 Vo gba yart aged 


p. 45. 


54 ALBIRONT. 


I myself heard ’Abi-alfaraj ben "Ahmad ben Khalaf Alzanjini say 
that the Mobad in Shiris had diotated thom to him in this form— 


I, Wyn} ID Sty} TT. atSherd IV. atetayoy V. aliicwtayrto, 


And lastly, I have heard them from the geometrician ’Abé-alhasan 
Adharkhurd, the son of Yazdinkbasis, in thie form— 


I. Spo IL. dyst TH. weet IV. 82, 
(Ahunavaiti,.) (Ustavaiti) (Spontimainyu.) (Vohukbehathra.) 
Vi eAytendy 

(Vahistéisti.) 


1 The eum total of their days, therefore, was 365. The quarter of a 


day (beyond the 365 days) they neglected in their computation, till these 
quartera of a day had summed up to the days of one complete month, 
which happened in 120 years. Then thoy added this month to the other 
months of the year, sd that the number of its months became thirteen. 
Thia month they called Kebiee (intercalary month). And the days of 
this additional month they called hy tho same names aa those of the 
otber months. 

In this mode the Persians proceeded till the time when both their 
empire and their religion perished. Afterwards the day-quarters were 
neglected, and the yeam were no longer intercalated with them, and, 
therefore, they did not return to their original condition, and remained 
considerably behind the fixed points of time (i.e. real time). The 
reason was thie that intercalation was an affair settled under the special 
patronage of their kings at a meeting of the mathematicians, literary 
celebritiva, historiographers, and chroniclers, priests, and judges,—on the 
basie of an agreement of all those regarding the correctness of the 
calculation, after all the persone I have mentioned had been summoned 
to the royal court from all parte of the empire, and after they had held 
councils in order to come to an agroement. On this occasion money was 
spent profusely to such an extent, that a man who made 2 low estimate 
said, the coat had sometimes amounted to one million of denare. This 
same day was observed as the moet important and the most glorious of 
all festivale; it was called the Feast of Intercalation, and on that day the 
king uzed to remit the taxes to his subjects. 

The reason why they did not add the quarter of a day every fourth 
year aa one complete day to one of the months or to the Epagomena, 
was this, that according to their views, not the days, but only the months 
are liable to being intercalated, becausc they had an aversion to increasing 
the number of the daya; thie was impossible hy reason of the pre- 
scription of the law regarding the days on which zamzama (whispering 
prayer) must he said, if it is to he valid. If the number of daye be 
inereased by an additional day (the order of the daya of camzama 
according to the law, is disturbed). 1 

It was a rule that on each day a special sort of odoriferoua plants and 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS. 55 


flowers was put before the Kisris, and likewise a special drink, in a well 
regulated order, regarding which there was no difference of opinion. 

The reason why thsy put the Epagomenm at the end of Abin Mah, 
between this month and Adhar Mah (lacuna). 


Ths Persians believe that the beginning of their year was fixed hy the 
creation of tho first man, and that this teok place on the day Hurmuz 
of Farwardin Mah, whilst the sun stood in tho point of the vernal 
equinox in the middle of heaven. This occurred at the beginning of 
the saventh millenium, according to their view of the millennia of the 
world. 

Tha astrologers hold similar opinions, via. that Canecr is the horo- 
scope of the world, For iu the first cyclo of Siudhind the sun stands 
in the beginning of Aries above the middle hetween the two euds of the 
inhahitable world. In that case, Cancer is the herescope, which sign 
according to their tenets, as we have mentioned, signifies tha commence- 
ment of rotation and growth. 

Others say, tbat Cancer was called ths horoscope of the world, because 
of all the zodiacal signs, it stands nearest to the zenith of the inhabit- 
able world, and because in the same sign is the tpena of Jupiter, 
which is a star of moderate nature ; and as no growth is possible, except 
when moderate heat acts upon suoist substances, it (1.e. Cancer) is fit to 
be the horosceps of the growth of the world. 

According to a third view, Cancer was called so, because by its creation 
the creation of the four elements became complete, and by their 
becoming complete all growth heeame complete. 

And other comparisons besides of a similar kind are brought forward 
by the astrologers. 

Further, people relate: When Zoroaster arose and intercalated the 
years with the months, which up to that time had summed up from the 
day-quarters, time returned to its original condition. Then he ordered 
peoples in all future times to do with the day-quarters the same as he 
had done, and they obeyed his convnand. They did not call the inter- 
calary month by a special name, nor did they repeat the name of another 
month, but they kept it simply in memory from one turn to another. 
Being, bowevey, afraid that there might arise uncertainty as to the place, 
where the intercalary montb would have again to be inserted, they 
transferred the five Epagemenm and put them at the end of that 
month, to which the turn of intercalation had proceeded on the last 
occasion of intercalating. And as this subject wasof great importance 
and of general uss to high and lew, to the king and to the subjects, and 
as it is required to he treated with knowledge, and to he carried out in 
conformity with nature (te. with real timc), they uscd to postpone 
intercalation, when its time happened to occur at a pericd wheu the 
condition of the empire was disturbed by calamities ; then they neglected 


. 46. 


ANS) ALBintni, 


intercalation so loug, until the day-quartere summed up te two monthe. 
Or, on the other hand, they antioipated intercalating tho year at. once hy 
two months, when thoy expeoted that at the time of the next coming 
intercalation circumetances would distract their attention therefrom, as 
it has bsen dons in the time of Yazdajird hen Sabir, fer no other motive 
but that of precaution. That was tho last intercalation which they 
carriod out, under tho superintendence of a Dastir, called Yazdajird 
Ajhiziri. Hizdr was an estate in the Qietrict of Igtakhr in Fira, from 
which ho received his name. In that intercalation the turn tad come to 
Abin Mah; therefore, the Epagomenm were added at its end, and 
there they have remained ever eince on account of their neglecting 
intercalation. 

Months of the Sogdians,—Now 1 shall mention the months of the 
Magians of Transoxiana, the people of Khwarizm and of Snghd. Their 
months have the same number, and the same number of daye as those 
of the Persians. Only between the beginning of the Persian and the 
Transoxanian menthae there is a difference, hecauso the Transoxanians 
append the five Epagemenm to ths end of their year, and commencs the 
year with the 6th day of the Persian month Farwardin, Khurdidhréz. 
So the beginning of the months is different until Adhar Mah; afterwards 
they have the same beginnings. 

Thees are the names of the months of the Sughdians. 


I. Syoss of 80 days. ‘VII. 345 of 80 days. 
ry ” ett n 
ye ” és ” 
Shey op Eyles 

Jalal Ss lang i 

Vise ” ryt ” 


Some people add a Jim (g) at the end of .»3 and ay, and pronounce 
ere and g~s*y+; they add a Nin and a Jim (¢5) at the end of Sly 
and ta5 and pronounce giSy and goo}, They call each day by a 
special name, as is the custom with the Persians. These are the names 
of the thirty daye— 


1. op 11. pe 21. I; 
3. crypts} 13. Usd 28. wane 
4. yyties 14. (As 2A. gre 
5, dalaipe 15, ewe 25. est 
6. dy 16. Uaste 26. Skeet 
7. sue 17, Spe 27. pre 
B. sven 18. oy 23. ser ply 
9. ptt 19. Sy} 29, vps 


10 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS. 57 


Some people give the day yy the name yw. The names of the five 
Epagomens are the following :-— 


I, (enardog lt HH. owe TI. ws) IV. sb, ¥V. u-ceau! 


Regarding these names the same difforenco exists among the Sugh- 
dians as among the Persians. They are also called by tho following 
pames :— 

L 333 I. sye WM, sy LV. yple Vi. Bay 


These five daya they add at the end of the iast month pays. 
The Sughdian system of intercalation agreed with the practice of tho 
Persians, as also did their neglecting intercalation. The reason why 
thore arose a difference between the beginnings of the Sughdian and the 
Persian years 1 shall describa hereafter. 

Months of the Chorasmians.—The Khwirizmians, although a 
branch of the great treo of the Persian nation, imitated the Sughdians 
as to the beginning of the year and the place where they add the 
Epagomenm. These are the names of their months— 


p- 4° 


TL. ake 3h sey, VIL. csyss$ 
ASN Creag orazos rel GUyrals gst 
ery Soyo wehe, Kaved gy! 
SHU agree Asi piss gS y03y 
dlaed PSY rgd post 
casytet pyteyh soglatent 
Others abbreviate these names and use them in this form— 
L cay vi. csy*3 
emeg dX get 
Soyo yl 
re xy 
Stu pret 
ont salen 
The thirty days they call by the following names :— 
1, Spy 11, ye} 21, ras) 
2. west 12, Be 22, St, 
3, entys\ 18. seo 23, bs 
4. syyyyse} 14, ways 24. ste 
5. peepee? 15. sso 25. ty} 
6. Soyd 16. ae 26, Sixt 
7. Stiep 17. Syyad 27. glut p. 48. 
8, sso 18. wy 28, wI, 
9. yt 19. wry 29, Aemyo 
10. yebk 20. 42, 30. &}33 


T have found that they begin the Epagomenm, which are appended at 


58 atpizon?. 


the end of the month Ispand&rmoji, with the same name by which they 
begin the dasa of the month; the second day they call Agmin, the third 
Ardawasht, and eo on till the fifth day Ispandarmaji. Then they return 
and commence anow with the firat day vj), the let of the month 
Nawasirji. They do not use or evon know gpecial names for the 
Epagomens, but I believe that this fact simply arises from the same 
confusion, regarding these names, which prevails among the Persians 
and Sughdians. For after Kuteiba ben Muelim Albahili had killed their 
learned men and priesta, and had burned their books and writings, they 
became entirely illiterate (forgot writing and reading), and relied in 
every knowledge or science which they required solely upon memory. 
In the long course of timo they forgot that on which there had been a 
divergence of opinion, and kept by memory only that which had been 
generally agreed upon. But Allah knows beat! 

As to the three identical names of days (the 8th, 25th, and 28rd,— 
Dai in Persian, Dast in Sughdian, Dadk2 in Kbwirizmian), the Persians 
refer them to the following, and compound them with these, saying 
Dai-ba-Adar, and Dat-ba-Mihr, and Dat-ba-Din. Of the Sughdians and 
Khwarizmians come do the same, and others connect the words in their 
language for ‘the first, the second, the third,” with each of them. 

In the early times of their ompire the Persians did not uao the week. 
For, first, it was in use among the nations of the west, and more particu. 
larly among the people of Syria and the neighbouring countries, because 
there the prophets appeared and wade people acquainted with the first 
week, and that in it tho world had been created, in conformity with the 
beginuing of the Thora. From these the use of the week apread to the 
other nations. The pure Arabiane adopted the week in consequence of 
. the vicinity of their country to that of the Syrians. 

We have not heard that anybody haa imitated the example of the 
Persians, Sughdians, and Khwarizmians, and has adopted their usage (of 
giving special names to the thirty daye of the month, instead of dividing 
them into weeka), except the Copts, i.e. the ancient inhabitante of 
Egypt. For they, as we have mentioned, used the names of the thirty 
daya till the time when Augustus, the son of Gajus, raled over them. 
He wanted to induce them to intercalate the years, that they might 
always agree with the Greolay and the people of Alexandria. Into this 
subject, however, it would be necessary t<¢ inquire more closely, Atthat 
time precisely five years were wanting till the end of the great inter- 
calation period. Therefore, he wai -d till five years of his rule had 


10 


20 


30 


elapsed, and then he ordered people to intercalate one day in tha months 40 


in every fourth year, in the same way aa the Greeks do. Thereupon 
they dropped the use of the names of the single days, because, as people 
say, those who used and knew them would have required to invent a 
name for the intercalary day. They (the names of the days of the 
month) have not been handed down to posterity. 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS. 59 


Months of the Egyptians.—The following are the nameg of their 
months :— 


I. Thot 30 deys. VI. Phameroth 30 days. 
Paophi 80 ,, Pharmuthi 80 ,, 
Athyr 30 ,, Pachon 80 » 
Choiak 30 ,, Payni 80 ,, 
Tydt 30 ,, Epiphi 80 ,, 
Mechir 30 ,, al 30 


Theee are tho ancient names of the months. In the following we give 
the names which were modernized by one of their princes, after inter- 
ealation had been adopted :— 


I, sxoqh Vil. scolqaye 
a BS gaye 
aes we 
es Oy 
Sash weal 
seta or 


Some people call the months wy.S, wiley, Yr, and sy by the 
names WhS, baee, Utley and coy-le. These are the forms on which 
people agree; in some books, however, these names are found in forms 
somewhat different from those we have mentioned. 

The five additional days they call, “Exayoxéat, which means “the 
emall month ;” they are appended at the end of Mesori, and at the same 
place tho intercalary day is added, in which case the Epagomonw are 
six daye. The leap-year they call tavt, which means “ the sign.” 

Months of the People of the West.—’Abj-al‘abhis Alamuli relates 
in his Kitdb-dalfit-alkibla, that the Western people (of Spain?) use 
months, the heginnings of which agree with those ef the Coptic months. 
Thay call them by the following names :— 


I. May 80 daye. VII. Novemher 30 days. 


June 30 , December 30 ,, 
July 80 ,, January 30 ,, 
Augnrt 30 ,, February 30 ,, 
September 30 ,, March 30 ,, 
October 80 ,, April 30 ,, 


Then follow the five Epagomens at the end of the year. 
Months of the Greeks—The months of the Greeks are alwaye 
twelve in number. Their names are these :— 
I. "Tavoudpws 3) daye. IV.’Anpiiss 30 days. 
DPpovdpos 23 ,, Mates 31 ,, 
Mépros = 81s Toes 380 » 


p. 5 


60 aLstront. 


VIL. “loviAcos 81 daye. X. “OxraBpics 382 days. 
Aiyoveros 81 ,, NogpBpws 80 » 
Serripfnos 80 ,, AexéeuBpws $81 ,, 


The sum of the days of their year is 865, and as in all four years the 
four quarters of a day are summed up, they appead it as one complete 
day to ths month February, so that thie month has in every fourth year 
29 days. He who first induced people to intercalate the years waa 
Julius, called Dictator, who ruled over them in bygone times, long 
hefore Moses. He gave them the months with such a distribution (of 
the days), and with such names as we have mentioned. He induced 
them to interealate the day-quarters into them (the months) in every 
1461st year, when the day-quartere had summed up to one complete 
year. So that (this intercalation) preserved these (tha months, keeping 
them in agreement with real timc). This intercalation they called ths 
‘great one,” after they had called the intercalation, which takes place 
every four years, the “ema one.” This “small” intercalation, however, 
they did not introduce until a long period had elapsed after the death 
of the king (Julius Casar). A characteristic of their system is the 
division of the days of the months into weoke, for reasons which we 
have mentioned before. 

The author of the Kitéb-ma’khadh-almawdkit (method for the deduc- 
tion of certain times and dates) thinks that the Greeks and other nations, 
who are in the hahit of intercalating the dey-gvarter, had fixed the sun’s 
entering Arica upon the beginning of April, which corresponds to the 
Syrian Nisin, as the beginning of their era. And we confess that in 
his account he comes pretty near the truth. For astronomical observa- 
tion haa taught that the fraction which follows the (365) days of the 
solar year, ia leas than ons complete quarter of a day, and wa ourselves 
have observed that the sun’s entering the first part of Aries precedes 
the beginning of Nisin. Therefore that which he mentions is possible, 
and even likely. 

Further on he saya, speaking of the Greeks, that “they, on peresiving 
that the beginning of their year had changed its place, had recourse to 
the years of the Indians ; that they then intercalated into their year the 
difference between the two years (viz., the Greek year and the solar 
year), and that in consequence the sun’a entering the first part of Aries 
again took place at the beginning of Nisin. If we on our side do the 
eame, Nisin return to ite original place.” He has tried to give an 
example, but bas not finished it, being incapable of doing eo. On thie 
ocessiou he has shown his ignurance, as he, in his account of the Greeks, 
has also rendered it evident that he ia inimical ta the Grecka, and partial 
to others. The fact is, that according to the Indian system he haa con- 
verted the difference between the Greek year and the solar year into 
fractions, putting it downas 729 seconds. Then he changes also the day 


10 


20 


30 


40 


10 


20 


30 


ON TRH NATURE OF MONTES. 61 


into seconds, and divides them hy that difference. So he gets 118 years 
6 months and 62 days. This would be the space of time in which the 
calendar would necessitate the intercalation of one complete day, on 
account of this plus.differonce. Further, he says, “ Now, if we inter- 
calate the past years of the Greek era,” which were at his time 1,225 
years, “the sun’s entering the first part of Aries again takes place at the 
beginning of Nisin.” But he has dropped his example, and haa not 
intercalated the years. If he had done so, his conclusivuns would have 
led to the contrary of what he says aad maintains, and the beginning of 
Nisan would come near the sun’s entering the first part of Taurus. For 
that date, which he wanted to treat as an example, would necessitate 
the intercalation of 103 days. Now the Greek year heing too short 
(according to him), the beginning of Nisin precedes the sun’s entering 
the first part of Aries, and the time which it would he necessary to 
intercalate (portio indercolanda), would have to bo added to the first of 
Nisé&n, so as to proceed aa far as to the 10th of it. 

Now I should like to know which equinox this man, who is so partial 
to the Indians, meant. For tho vernal equinox took place according to 
their system at that time six or seven days before the firstof Nisin. I 
should further like to lnow at what time the Greeks did what he relates 
of them. For they are so deeply imbued witb, and so clever in geometry 
and astronomy,and they adhere so strictly to logical arguments, that 
they ara far from having recourse to the theories of those who derive 
the hases of their knowledge from divine inspiration, when their artifices 
desert them and they are required to come forward with an argunent; 
not to mention the sciences of philosophy and theology, physics and 
arts, cultivated among the Greeks. “ However, everybody acts according 
to hia own mode, and each community enjoys what they have got of 
their own.” (Sira xvii. 86.) That man had not read the Almagest, and 
had not compared it with the most famous book of the Indians, called 
the Canon Sindhind. The difference between them must be evident to 
anybody in whom the slightest spark of sagacity is left. 

To something similar Hamza ben Alhasan Alisfahini has applied him- 
self in his treatise on the Nauréz, at the time when he was partial to the 
Persian modc of treating the solar year, because they reckoned it as 
365 days and 6,4); hours, while the Greeks neglected in their intercala- 
tion the fraction following the six hours. Asa proof he adduced that 
Mubanumad hen Misi ben Shiikir, the astronomer, had explained this 
subject, and had enlarged on it 2n one of his books on the solar year, 
and that he had produced the arguments for it, and pointed out the 
errors of the ancients, who had held erroneous views in this respect. 

Now, we have examined the astronomical observations of Muhammad 
ben Masi, and of his brother Ahmad, and we have found that they 
prove only that these fractions ure less than six hours. ‘The book. to 
which Alisfahani refers, is attributed to Thabit ben Kurra, beeause he 


p. 52, 


62 ALBinont. 


was & profégé of those people, entirsly mixed up with them, and because 
it was he who polished for them their scientific work. He had collected 
the meierials of this book with the object of explaining the fact of the 
solar years not being alwaye equal to each other, on account of ths 
motion of the apogee. With all this he wag compelled to assume equal 
circles, and equal motions along with thew times, in order to derive 
thereby ths mean motion of the sun. But he did not find equal circles, 
except those which movein anexcentric plane, described (viz. the circles) 
round a point within it, which point is assumed exclusively for these 
circles. And this circle, which was sought for, extends the six hours by 
additional fractions (i.e. its time of revolution is 365 daye 6 hours+a 
fraction), 28 Hamza hea related. However, such a circle is not called a 
solar yoar, for ths soler year is, 28 wo have defined already, that one, in 
which all natural occurrences which are liablo to growth and to decay 
retorn tc their original condition. 

Jewish Months.—The Hebrews and all the Jaws, who claim to be 
related to Moses, have the following twelve months :— 


I. Nisin of 80 days. VIL Tishri of 80 days. 
Jyvar of 29 ,, Marheshwin of 29 ,, 
Siwin of 30 ,, Kislew of 30 ,, 
Tanmmis of 29 ,, Tébeth of 29 ,, 
Ath of 80 ,, Sheset (Shebhat) of 30 ,, 
Elél of 29 ,, Adhér of 29 ,, 


The eum total of their days is 354, being identical with the number 
of days of the lunar year. If they simply used the lunar year as it is, 
the sum of the days of their year and the number of their montha 
would be identical. However, after having left Egypt for the desert 
Al.tih, after having ceased to be the slaves of the Egyptians, having 
been delivered from their oppression, and altogether separated from 
them, the Israelites received the ordinances and the laws of God, 
described in the second book of the Thora, And this event took place 
in the night of the 15th Nisin at full moon and epring time. They 
were ordered to observe this day, aa it ie said in the second book of the 
Thora (Bxodus xii. 17, 18): * Ye shall observe this day as an ordinance 
to your generations for ever on the fourteenth of the first month” By 
the * fret month” the Lord does not mean Tishii, but Nisan; because in 
the s2me book hs commands Moses and Aaron, that the month of pase- 
over should be the first of their months, and the beginning of the year 
(@xodus xii. 2). 

Further, Moses spake unto the people: ‘“ Remember the day when ye 
came out from bondage. Therefore ye shall not eat leavened bread on 
this day in that month when the trees blossom.” Jn consequence, they 
were compelled to use the solar year and the lunar months; the solar 
year in order that the 14th Nis&n should fall in the beginning of apring, 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATUBE OF MONTHS. 63 


when ths Jeaves of the trees and the blossuzas of the fruit trees cone 
forth’; the lunar months in order that, on the same day, the body of 
the moor should be lit up completely, standing in the sign of Lihra. 
And as the time in question would naturally advanee for a certain 
number of days (the sum of the days of twelve lunar months not being 
a complete year), it was necessary for the same reason to append to the 
other months those days, as soon as they made up one complete menth. 
They added these days as a complete month, which they called the 
First Adhdr, whilst they called the original month of this uame the 

10 Second Adhér, because of its following immediately behind its namesake. 
The leap-year they called ‘2ibir (VOY), which ia to be derived from 
Meubbereth (Nap), meaning in Hebrew, “a pregnant woman.” For 
they compared the insertion of the supernumerary month into the year, 
to & woman’s bearing in her womb a foreign organism. 

According to another opinion, the First Adhir is the original month, 
the name of which without any addition was used in the common year, 
and the Second Adhiir is to he ths Jeap-month, in order that it should 
have its place at the end of the year, for this reason, that according to 
the command of ths Théri, Nisin was to bo the first of their months. 

20 «This, however, is not the case. That the Second Adhir is the original 
month, is evident from the fact, that its place and length, tho number of 
its days, the feast- and fast-days which occur in it, are not liable to any 
changes. Andof all these days nothing whatsoever occurs in the First 
Adhir of a Jeap-year. Further, they make it a rule that, during the 
Second Adhir, the sun should always stand in the sign of Pisces, whilst 
in the First Adhir of a leap-year be must be in the sign of Amphora. * 

Five Cycles.—Now for the Jeap-years they wanted a certain principle p. 54. 
of arrangement as a help te facilitate their practieal use. Therefore 
they looked out for cycles which were based upon solar years, consisting 

80 of lunar months. Of those cycles they found the following five :— 


I. The cycle of 8 years consisting of 99 months, of which there are 
8 leap-months. 
IL. The cycle of 19 years, called the Minor Cycle, consisting of 235 
months, of which there are 7 leap-months. 
TIF. The cycle of 76 yeara, consisting of 940 months, of which there 
are 28 leap-months, 
IV. The cycle of 95 years, called the Middle Cycle, consisting of 1,176 
menths, of which there are 35 leap-months. 
¥. The cycle of 582 years, called the Major Cycle, consisting of 6,580 
40 months, of which there are 196 leap-mouths. 


Of these cycles they choose that one, the observation of which would 
be the easiest and simplest. This quatily is peculiar to the cycles of 8 
and of 19 years, with this difference, however, that the lativr one agrees 


p. 55. 


64 ALBirOni. 


more closely with solar years. For this cycle contains, according to 
them, 0,989 days 16525, hours. Thoss small particles of an hour they 
call Halaks corrbry. of which 1,080 make one hour. If, therefore, you 
have got minutes, ie. the 60th parts of an hour, and you want to change 
them into Halaks, you multiply them by 18, and you get ths corre- 
sponding number of Halaks, And if you want the converse operation, 
you multiply the number of Halaks hy 200, and you got a sum of thirds 
of an hour (ie. the 60th parta of a second); these fractions you can 
then raise to wholes. 

Now, if we reduce this cyole (of 19 years) to fractions and change it 
into Halaks, we get the following sum of Halaks :— 


179,876,755, oxproesod in Indian ciphers. 


The solar year ie, according to them, 865 days 52723 hours long; this 
latter fraction ig nearly identical with 990 Halaks. If we now also 
reduce the solar year into Halaks, we get the sum of — 

9,467,190 Halaks. 

If you finally divide by this number the number of the Halaks of the 
cycle of 19 yeare, you get as the quotient, 19 solar years, with a remainder 
of 145 Halaka, which is nearly the 7th part of an hour and a fraction. 

If wo perform ths same operation with the cycle of 8 years containing 
2,928 days 12 hours and 747 Halaks, we get as ths sum of its Halaks 
the number— 

75,777,867 

If we divide this sum by the sum of the Halaks of the solar year, we 
get 8 solar years, and a remainder of 1 day 18 hours and 987 Halaks, 
which is nearly }+14 (¢e. 44) hour. 

Hence it ie evident that the cycle of 19 years comes nearest to real 
time, and is the best of all cycles which have been used. The other 
cycles are simply composed cf duplications of the cycle of 19 years. 
Therefore the Jews preferred this cycle, and regulated thereby inter- 
calation. 

The threo Ordines Intercalationis.—Now, although they agreed 
on the quality of the year aa to the order of intercalation in the Maser 
(IFN) cycle), when it has to take place, and when not, they differed 
amoug each other regarding the nature of the beginning of the Mahzérs. 
And this hae also produced a difference regarding the order of inter- 
calation in the Mahzér. For some take the current year of the Era 
Adami, of which you want to know whether it is a common pear ora 
leap-year, and reduce the numbor of years tv Malzors Ly dividing them 
by 19; then you get complete Mahzére, and as a remainder, the years of 
the Mehzér not yet finished, including the eurrent year. And then the 
order of the leap-ycare is fixed acconling to the formula pypyy te. 
the 2nd, Sth, 7th, 10th, 13th, 16th, and 18th years. 


10 


30 


10 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS. 65 


Othere take the years of the sams Air, Adami, subtract one year, and 
fix the order of the Icap-years in the remainder of the years of tha 
incomplete Mahzér according to the formula Wao i.e. tha Ist, 4th, 
6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, 17th years. These two cycles are attributed to the 
Jews of Syria. 

Others again subtract from the sum of years two years, and compute 
the order of the leap.yeara by the formula yyy 54 te. the ard, 5th 
(52342), 8th, 11th, 14th (5+843+43), loth (16=1442), and 19th 
(19==16 +3) years. 

Thia latter mode of arrangement is the most extensively diffused 
among the Jews; they prefer it to others, becauss they attribute its 
invention 10 the Babylonians. All three modes of computation are to 
be traced back to one and the same principle, on which there cannot be 
any difference of opinion, as is illustrated hy the following circular 
figure :— 


The larger circle 
the formula 


WWI 


p. 56. 


66 atpintnt. 


The first (outer) cirele indicates the quality of the year, whether it ia 
@ common year or a leap-ycar. The three other circles contain the three 
formula, indicating tho order_of the leap.years in the Mahséra ; the 
second circle, the formula mum; the third circle, the formula 
WDWVIN 3 and the inner circle, the formula Sty 

The cycles which we have mentioned hitherto, are derived from the 
moon, though not exclusively. The aolar cycle conaists of 283 years, 
and serves to indicate on what days of the week the solar years com- 
mence. For if the Jewish year had simply 865 daye without the quarter- 
day, the beginning of the year would in every seven years return to tho 
eame weekday. Since, however, they are intercalated once in four years, 
the beginning docs not return to the same day, except in 28 years, ia, 
4x7 years. Likewiso the other cycles, heretofore mentioned, do not, on 
being completed, retwn to the same wesk-day, except the largest oyele, 
on account of its arising froma duplication of tho cycle of 19 years with 
the solar cycle. 

The thres kinds of the Jewish Year.—I say further : If the Jewish 
years had simply the firat two qaslities, ie were eithor common years 
or Ieap-yeara, it would be easy to learn their heginnings, and to dis- 
tinguish hetween the two qualities which are prcper to them, provided 
the ahove-mentioned formula of computation for the years of the 
Mahzér he nown. The Jewish year, however, is a threefold ons. For 
they have made an arrangemont among themselves, that New Year shall 
not fall on « Sunday, Wednesday, or Friday, i.e. on the days of the 
sun and his two atar. (Mercury and Venus); and that Passover, by 
which the beginning of Nisin is regulated, eball not fall on the days of 
the inferior ebars, i.e on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, for reasons 
on which we shal] hereafter enlarge 2s much as possible. Thereby they 
were compelled either to postpone or to advance New Year and Passover, 
when they happened to fall on one of the daya mentioned. 

For this reason their yoar consiste of the following three apecies :— 


I. Ths year called ys, i. the imperfect one (TION), in which 
the months Marheshwin end Kisléw have only 29 daye, 


IL The year called glS, ie. the intermediate (VID), lit. aceun- 
dum ordinem suum, in which Markeshwin has 29 daya, and 
Kisléw 80 days. 

IIT. The year called pola, ie. the perfect one Gayoy), in which 
both Marheshwin and Kisl$w ‘ave 30 days. 


Each of these three species of yoars may be either a common year or 
& leap-year. So wo get a combination of 63x specics of years, as we 
have here illustrated in the form of a genealogical diagram, and dis- 
tributed in the following representation. 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS. 6? 


Ter YEAR. 
I 
Common year of 12 months. Leap-year ; 18 months. 


| 
Perfect, of ie aaya. Porfect, of 385 days. 


Marheahwan, 80 days. Markeshwan. 80 days. 
Kisléw, 80 days. Kisléw, 90 days. 
Intermediate, of 954 daya. Intermediate, of 384 days. 
Marbeshwan, 29 daya. Marheshwin, 29 days. 
Kisléw, 80 daya. Kisléw, 30 days. 
Imperfect, of 853 days. Imperfect, of 383 days. 
10 Marheshwan, 29 days. Marheshwin, 29 days. 
Bisléw, 29 days. Kisléw, 29 daya. 


For the doduction of thess differences they have many modea of com- 
putation aa well as tables, which wa shall not fail to explain hereafter, 

Determination of New Moon.—Regarding their knowledge of the 
baginning of the month, and the mode in which it is computed and used, 
the Jews are divided into two secta, one of which are the Rabbanites. 
Thay derive the beginning of the month by meaus of enteulation from 
the mean motions of the two luminaries (gun and moon), no regard being 
had aa to whether new moon ig visible already or not. For it was their 

20 object to have a conventional time, that was to begin from the conjunc- 
tion of sum and moon. By the following accident they were, as they 
relate themselvea, induced to adopt this system: at the time when they 
returned to Jerusalem, they posted guards wpon the topa of the 
mountains to observe new moon, and they ordered them to light a fire 
and to make a smoke, which was to bo a signal for them that new moon 
in fact had been seen. Now, on account of the cnmity which existed 
between them and the Samaritans, these latter went and sent up the 
smoke from the mountain one day before new moon waa seen. This 
practice they continued during several months, at the beginnings of 

80 which heaven always happened to be clouded. Finally, people in 
Jerusalem found out this, observing that new moon, on the 3rd and 4th 
of the month, rose above the horizon from the east. Hence it waa 
evident that the Samaritans had deceived them. Therefore they had 
Facourss to the scholara of their time, in order to be protected by a 
syetem of calculation against the deceitful practices of their enemies, to 
which they were exposed by their present method. 

Tn order to prove that it was legally permitted to fix the beginning of 
tne month hy calculation instead of observation, they referred to the 
duration of the deluge. Yor they assert that Noah compnted and fixed 

40 the beginnings of the months by calculation, because heaven was covered p. 58. 


Meeps + =. - 


us ALBIRCUNY. 


and clonded for so long as six months, during which time neither new 
moon nor any other phase of the moon could be observed. 

The mathematicians, therefore, computed for them the cycles, and 
taught them how to find, by calculation, the conjunctions and tha 
appearance of naw moon, viz. that between new moon and the con. 
junction the time of 24 hovre must elapse. And this comes near the 
truth, For if it was the corrected conjunction, not the mean ono, the 
moon would in thase hours move forward about 18 degrees, and her 
elongation from tha sun would be about 12 degrees. 

This reform was brought about nearly 200 years after Alexander. 
Before that time thay used to ohserve the Tefifoth (MMP PMA), i.e the 
year-quartera, on tho computation of which we shall enlarge hereafter, 
and to compere them with the conjunction of that month, to which 
the Tokaifa in question was to bs referred. If they found thot the con- 
junction preceded the Tekiffa by about 80 days, they intercalated a 
month in this year, eg. if they found that the conjunction of Tammiz 
preceded the Tekifé of Tammi, ic. the summer-solstice by about 
80 days, they intercalated in thet year a month Tammfiz, so that i” had 
one Tammuz and a second Tammiz (OI) HSH). In the same way 
they acted with the other Tekazéth. 

Some Rabbanites, however, deny that such guards wera posted, and 
that they made a smoks as a signal. According to their opinion, the 
causa of ths deduction of this system of calculation was the following: 
the scholars and the priests of the Israelites, feding convinced that their 
people would be scattered and dispersed in consequence of the last 
destruction of Jorusalem, as they thought, were afraid that their com- 
patriots, heing scattered all over the world, 2nd solely relying upon the 
anpearance of uew moon, which of course in different countries would be 
different for them, might, on account of this, fall into dissensione, and 
a schism in their doctrine might take place. Therefore they invented 
these calculations,—a work which wag particularly attended to by 
Eliezer ben Pérdah, and ordered people to adhere to them, to use them, 
to return to them, wherever and under whatever circumstances they 
lived, so that a schism among them might be avoided. 

The second sect are the Milddites, who derive the beginning of the 
month from v.+ voujuuction; they are also called Alkurrd and Aish. 
motizye, becuu.. they demand that people shall only follow the wording 
of the text, no regard being had to considerations aud analogies, ete., 
even if it may he illogical and impracticable. 

One party of them is called the ‘{ndnites, who Qarived their name 
from ‘Anan, the head of the emigration (AMOI WH), who lived between 
100 and 110 ycarm ago. A head of the emigration must of necessity be 
one of the descendzats of David ; an offspring of another family would 
not be fit for this officc. Theix coswnon people relate, that only he is 
qualified who, standing upright, can reach his knees with the tops of his 


10 


20 


80 


40 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS. 69 


fingers; just as people relate such things of the prince of the true 
believers, ‘Ali ben “Abi Talib, and of those of bis descendants who are 
qualified for the Imima and the rulo of the community (the Muham- 
madan world). 

The genealogy of this ‘Anan is the following :— 


nts py ‘a y's ert p py 
sw ‘3 Vou ‘a Nanos ‘A EDI ‘aA wetoN ‘a VI 
Wa Nee 'D N92 I a Tene! A ea ‘3 -X1 
SOPHO 'D ey 'D war ‘2 NVA‘ NIY NIN ‘a XVI 
syed '2 py ‘A amu; 'A pM 'a sony 'a -XXI 
Nos ‘a swat’ jpy ‘a swana ‘a NTs -XXV! 
parm ‘a benbyw 's Saat 's rp ‘a ier ‘a XEX1 
DM 2 Me 'D meu: ‘Da ‘a OvOwD ‘5 XXXVI 
maby ‘3 ova '3 reas ‘3 now ‘3 ween ‘a -XLI 
NIA XLVI 


He opposed a community of Kabbauites in many of their ohservances. 
He fixed the heginning of the month by the appearance of the new 
moon in a similar war, os is prescribed in Islim, not caring on what day 
of the week the heginning of the month happened to fall. He gave up 
the system of computation of the Rabbanites, and made the intercalation 
of a month depend upou the observation of barley.seed in ‘Irik and 
Syria hetween the Ist and the 14th Nisin. If he found » first-fruit fit 
for xriction and reaping, he left thc year as a common sear; if ho did 
not find that, he intercalated the year.- Lhe mode of prognosticating the 
state of the corn was practically this, tant one of his followers went out 
on the 23rd Shehiit, to cxamine—in Syria and the countrics of a similar 
climate—the state of the harler-sevd. If he found that the Safa, i.e. the 
prickles of the beard of the car of corn, bad already come out, he 
counted from that day till Passover 50 days; if he found that it had 
not yet come out, he intercalated a month into the year. And some 
added the iotereslary month to Shefat, so that there was a Shefaf and an 
U-Shefat ; whilst others added it to Adhiir, so that there was an Adhdr 
and a We-Adiér. The Aninites mostly use Shefat, not Adhir, whilst 
the Rabbanites use exclusively Adhir. 

This system of prognosticating the stat. of the corn is a different one 
according to the difference of the air and tue climste of the countries. 
Therefore it would be necessary to make a special rule for every place, 
and not to rely upon the rule made for one certain place, because this 
would not be applicable elsewhere. 

Syrian Months.—The Christians in Syria, ‘Irak, and Khurdafin have 
combiued Greek and Jewish months. For they use the months of the 
Greeka, but have adopted the 1st of the Greek October as the heyinuing 


). 


70 atBinont, 


of their year, that it might ho nearer to the Jewish new-year, because 
Tishri ef the Jews always precedes that date a littls. And they call 
their months by Syrisn names, some of which agres with the Jewish 
namee, whilst others differ. People have derived these names from the 
Syrians, te. the Nabstwana, the inhabitants of Sawid; the Sawid of 
‘Irak heing called Siristiin. But I ao not ses why they derive these 
months from them, hecauss in Islim they uae the monthe of the Arabs, 
and at the time of heathenism they used the menths of the Persians. 
Othere say that Siriatéin means Syria. If that be the case, the inhabi- 


tants ef this country were Chriatiana hofors ths tims of Is}am, and held 10 


@ middle position between Jewish and Greek theories. 
The names of their months are theee :— 


I. Tishrin kedim of $1 daye. VI. Nisin of 80 days. 


Tishrin hraji of 30 ,, Iyar of 31 ,, 
Kanin kedim of 31 ,, Haziran of 30 ,, 
Kanfn hréi of 31 ,, Tammiz cf 31 _ ,, 
Shebit of 28 ,, Abb of $1 ,, 
Adhar of $1 ,, al ef 80 , 


In the month Shebit they intercalate ons day every four yeare, ee that 


it then has 29 days. Regarding the quality of their year they agree 20 


with the Greeks. 

These months have become widely known, ec that even the Muslims 
adopted them, and fixed thereby the dates of practical life. The worde 
Xedim (primus) and £#rdi (pestremus) have heen translated into Arabic, 
and in the word yt they have added an Elif, eo as to make it jut, 
because # single yd (without Tushdid) ie disngrecable to the organ of the 
Arabs, if this Elif is net added. 


Months of the Arabs.—The Arshs have the following twalve 
months :— 


I. Almuharram. VIL. Rajab. 
Safar. Sha‘ban. 
Rabi‘ I. Ramadan. 
Rabi IT. Sh wwal. 
Jumida I. Dhi-alla‘da. 
Jumada IT, Dht-alhijja. 


Regarding the etymology of these names varicus opinions have been 
advanced, Almubarram, e.g. wae called so, hecause it was one of the 
Murum, i.e. the four sacred months. 

Safar was called so, because m it people used to procure their pro- 
visions, going out in 2. company of mex which was called Safariyya. 

Ths two months Rabi‘ were caJled so on account of the coming forth 


of the flowers and blossoms and of the continual fall of dew and rain, 


80 


40 


ON THE NATURE OF NONTHS. 71 


All of which refers to the nature of that season which we call “autumn,” 
but which the Arahs called “ spring” (Rabi). 

The two months Jumddd were called so, hecause in them the water 
froze (345). 

Rajab was called so, because in it people formed the intention of 
travelling, there being no fear of the evils of war. For “ rujba” means 
evstentaculum (a thing by means of which a tres is propped up), and 
hence people say, “* a propped up (murajjed) palin-tree which beara a heavy 
toad of frit.” 

10 Sha'bdn was called so, because in it the tribes were dispersed. 

Ramadén was called so, hecause of the stonca being reasted by the 
intense heat. 

Shawwél waa cailed ao, becanse of the increasing and the decreasing 
of tho heat. 

Dhi-alkd‘da waa called so, because in it people stayed in their homes. 

Dhi-algijja was called se, because in it people performed the Hajj, i.e. 
the pilgrimage. 

We found, however, also other names of the months of the Araba, 
which were given to them by theiz ancestors. They are the fol- 

20 lowing :— 


T. Almu’tamir, VII. AV’asamm. 
Najir. ‘Adil. 
Khawwin. NAfik. 
Sawn. Waghil. 
Hantam. Huwit¥. 
Zabba. Burak. 


Tha forma as well as the order of these names sometimes differ from 
what we have given. One of the pocta, eg. has comprised them in the 
following verses :— 


80 “We have commenced with Muwtanir, Ndjira, and Khawwin, to 
which follows Suwdn. 
And with Zabbd comes 8é’ida, its next fellower. Then comes the 
turn of *dsamm, in which hatred wa.: deaf. 
And Wdghila, Nétile, and ‘Adila, all three are noble and beautiful. 
Then comes Renna, and after it Burak. Now are complete the 
months of the year, as you may count with your fingers.” 


In the following we shall explain the meanings of these names 
according to the statements of tha dictionaries :—- 


Almwtamir means that it “ ebeys” all the decrees of fortune, which 
40 the year ia going to bring. 


p- 61. 


72 ALBIRONI. 


Néjir is derived from najr, which means “ intense heat,” ae it ia used 
in the following verse :-— 


‘* A atinking water, on account of which a man turne hia face seide, 
Even he who ie tortured by thiret, if he tasted it in a ‘ boiling 
hot’ month.” 

Khawwén is the form je of the verb “ to deceive,” and Suméin ie the 
form Jleé of the verh ‘to preserve, to take care.” And these eignifications 
agreed with the natures of the monthe at the time when they were firet 
employed as names for them. 

Zadid meane a “ great and frequently vecurring calamtty.* The month 10 
was called eo, because in it there wae much and frognent fighting. 

B@id, too, received ite name from the fighting in it, for many people 
need to “perish” init. Thie circumetance ie expressed in the following 
proverb: “ All that 1¢ portentous happens between Junddd and Rajab.” 
For in thie month people were in great haste and cagerneae to carry out 
whatever blood revenge or warlike expeditiona they were upon, before 
the month Rajab came in. 

*Agamm was called eo, becauee in it people abstained from fighting, 
eo that the clash of weapone was not heard. 

Wégh? meane “ one who comes to a drinking-party without having been 30 
invited.” Thia month wae called eo, because it euddenly comee in after 
Ramadan, and L:vauee in Ramadan there was much wine-drinking, on 
account of the next following monthe being the months of pilgrimage. 

Nétit meane “@ measure, a pot of wine.’ The month was called eo, 
because in it people indulged in drinking debauchee, and frequently 
used that pot. 

‘Adi is derived from “ ‘ed?” (which means either “ to be just” or 
“to turn aside”). The month was called eo, becanee it was one of the 
monthe of pilgrimage, when they used to abetain from the use of the 
Natil, ia the wine-pot. 80 

Renna wae called so, because the sheep were “ crying” on account of 
the drawing near of the time when they were to be killed. 

Burak was called av, because of the kneeling down of the camels on 
being led to the slaughtering-place. 

A better versification of these namee than the above-mentioned one is 
that by the Waztr "Iema‘il ben ‘Abbad :— 


* You wanted to know the months of the pagan Arabe. Take them 
according to the order of Mubarram (Safar, ete.), of which they -- 
partake, 

First comes Mu'tamir, then Ndjir; and Khawwin and Swotn are 40 
connected by one tie. 

Hautn, Zabbé, '‘Agamm, Add, Néfik with Waghl, and Kanna with 
Bura mn 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS. 73 


Tf the etymologies of these two classes of names of the months ara 
such as we have related, we must suppose that between the two periods 
of giving the names there was a great interval of timo. Or elso our 
explanations and etymologies would not he correct. For in one class of 
the months the highest pitch of the heat is Safar, whilst in the other it 
ie Ramadan; and this (that the greatest heat should he either in Safar 
or in Ramadan) is not possible at one and the same period, or at two 
periods which are not very far distant from each other. 

Intercalation of the Ancient Arabs.—At the time of paganism 
the Arabs used their months in a similar way to the Muslims; their 
pilgrimage went wandering around through the four seasons of the vear. 
Bnt then they desired to perform the pilgrimage at such time as their 
merchandise (hides, skins, fruit, etc.) was ready for the market, and to 
fiz it according to an invariable rule, so that it should occur in the most 
agreeable and abundant ceason of the year. Therefore they learncd the 
eystem of intercalation from the Jews of their neighbourhood, about 
200 years before the Hijra. Aud they used intercalation in o similar 
way to the Jews, adding the difference hetween their year and the solar 
year, when it had summed up to one complete month, to the montha of 
their year. Then their intercalators themselves, the so-called Kaldmis 
of the tribe Kinina, rose, after pilgrimage had been finished, delivered a 
apecch to the people at the fair, and intercalated the month, calling the 
next following month by the name of that month in which they were. 
The Arabs consented to this arrangement and adopted the decision of 
the Kelammas. This proceeding they called “ Nasi’,” i.e. postponement, 
because in every second or third year they postponed the heginning of 
the year for 2 month, as it was required hy the progression of the year. 
One of their pocts hae eaid :— 


* We have an intercalator, under whose banner we march ; 
He declares the months profane or sacred, aa he likes.” 


The first intercalation spplied to Muharram; in consequence Safar 
was called Muharram, Rabi‘ I. was called Safay, and so on; and in this 
way all the names of all the months were changed. The second inter- 
calation applied to Safar; in consequence the next following month 
(Rabi? I.) was called Safar. And this went on till interealation had 
paased through all twelve months of the year and returned to Muharram. 
Then they commenced anew what they had done the firet time. 

The Arabs counted the cycles of intercalation and fixed thereby their 
dates. They said for instance: “ From the time = till the time y the 
years have turned ronnd one cycle.” 

But now, if notwithstanding intercalstion if hecame evident that a 
month progressed beyond its proper place in the four seasons of the 
year, in consequence of the accumulation of the fractions of the solar 
year, and of the remsinder of the plus-difference between the solar year 


68 
Ue 


74 atsfrtnt. 


and the lunar year, to which latter they had added thie plus-difference, 
they made 4 second intercalation. Such a progression they were able to 
recognize from the rising and setting of the Lunar Mansions. This went 
on till the time when the Prophet fled from Makha to Madihs, when the 
turn of intercalation, as we have mentioned, had come to Sha‘bin. 

Now, thia month was called Muharrum, and Ramadan was called 
Safar. Then the Prophet waited till the “ farewell pilgrimage,” on which 
occasion he addreeeed the people, and said: “ The season, the time has 
gone round as it was on the day of God's creating the heavens and the 
earth.” (Sara ix. 38.) By which he meant that the months had returned 
to their original places, and that they had been freed from what the Arabe 
uaad to do with them. Therefore, the “ farewell pilgrimage,” was also 
called “ the corvect pilgrimage.” Thereupon intercalation was prohibited 
and altogether neglected. 

Months of the Themudeni—'Aba-Bakr Muhammad ben Duraid 
AVazdi relates in his Kitdéb-alwishéf, that the people Thamtd called the 
montha by the following names :— 


I. Mijib te. Maharram. VI. Haubal. 
Majir. Mauhi. 
Marid. Daimar. 
Mulsim. Dabir. 
Mugdir. Haifal. 
Haubar. Musbil. 


He saya that they eommanced their year with the month Daimur, i.e. 
Ramadin. The following is a versification of these names by ’Abt-Sahl 
‘Tea ben Yahy& Almasthi :-— 

.“The months of Thamid are Mijid, Mijir, Mirid; then follow 

Mulzim and Musdir. 
Then come Haubar and Haubal, followed by Mavhd and Datnur. 
Then come Dibir, and Ha:fal,and Musbi?, till it is finished, the most 
celebrated among them.” 


Arabio Names of Days.—-The Arabe did not, like the Persiane, give 


10 


20 


80 


apecial nainea to the single daye of the month, but they bad apecial ~ 


names for each three nights of every month, which were derived from 
the etate of the moon and her light during them. Beginning with the 
first of the month, they called— 


The firat three nighte (Ist-8rd) ghurar, which is the plural of gira, 
and means the firat of everything. According to others they wore 
called ao, because during them the new moon appeared like a blaze 
on the forehead of a horee. 

The second three nights (4th-6th) nufal, from texeffale, which means, 
“beginning to make a present without any necessity.’ Othere call 
them ehuhb, te. the white nighte. 


40 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS. 75 


The third three nights (7th-9th) tsa‘, because the ninth night is the 
last of them. Others call them buAr, because in them the darkness 
of the night ie particularly zich. 

The fourth three nights (10th-12th) ‘zehar, becouse the tenth night ie 
the first of them. 

The fifth three nights (18th-l5th) bid, hecause they are white hy the 
shining of the moon from the beginning of the night till the end. 
The sixth three nights (16th-18th) dura‘, because they ave black at 
the beginning like the sheep with a black head and a white body. 
Originally the comparison was taken from a coat of muil im which 
people are clad, because the colour of the head of bim who is 

dressed in it, differs from the colour of the rest of his body. 

The seventh three nights (19th-21st) 2ulam, because in most cases 
they were dark. 

The eighth three nighta (22nd-24th) fanddis (from findie=extremely 
dark). Others call them duhm, on account of their being dark. 

The ninth three nights (25th-27tb) da‘ddi’, because they are remain- 
ders (or last parts). Others derive it from the mode of walking of 
the camels, viz., stretching forth the one foot, to which the other te 
guickly following. 

The tenth three nights (28th-30th) mifdk, on account of the waning 
of the moon and the month. 


Besides, they distinguished certain nights of the month by special 
names, ¢ g. the last night of the month was called sirdr, hecause in it the 
moon hides herself; it was also called fakama on account of there heing 
no light in it, and tard’, because the sun has nothing to do with it. 
Likewise the lust day of the month was called natir, because it is in the 
aakr (throst) of the month. The 13th night is called saw’, the 14th the 
night of “ badr,” because in it the moon is full, and ber light complete. 
For of everything that has hecoms complete yeu say badara; e.g. 10,000 
dirhams are called one badra, hecause that is supposed to he the moet 
complete and the last number, although it is not so in reality. 

The Arabs used in their months also the seven days of the week, the 
ancient names of which are the following :-— 


1. ’Awwal, i.e. Sunday. 

2. ’Abwan. 

3, Jubar. 

4, Dubir. 

5. Mw’nis. 

6. ‘Artiba. 

?. Shiyar. 

They are mentioned by one of their poets in the following verse :— 
“T etrongly hope that I shall remain alive, and that my day (of 
death) will be either 'Awwal, or ’Ahwan, or Subdr, 


p. 64, 


65. 


76 


Afterwards the Arabs gave them the following new names :— 


The Arabs fixed the beginning of the month by the appearance of 


ALBinOon?. 


or ‘Ariba or Shiydr.” 


Al-ahad, te. 
Alitbuda, ,, 
Al-thuletha, ,, 
Al’arbii 
Al-khamis ,, 
Abjumi, ,, 
Al-sabt, 6 


ons, 
two. 
thres. 
four. 

five. 
gathering. 
sabbath. 


Or the following day, Dubdr, or if I get beyond that, either Mu'nie 


new moon, and the same has been established as a law in Islam, as the 
Lord has said (Sira ii, 185): “ They will ask thee regsrding the new 


moons. 


kind (in general) and for pilgrimage.” 


Determination of the longth of Ramadan, the Month of 


Speak: they are certain moments of time for the use of man- 


Fasting.—Some years ago, however, a pagan sect started into existeuca 
somehow or other. They considercd how best to employ the interpre- 
tation (of the Koran), and to attach themselves to the system of the 
exoteric sehool of interpreters who, as they maintain, are the Jews and 20 
Christiany. For these latter have astronomical tables and calculations, 
by means of whick they compute their months, and derive the knowledge 
of their fast days, whilst Muslims are compelled to observe new moon, 
and to inquire into the different phases of the light of the moon, and 


into that which is common to both her visible and invisible halves. 


But 


then they found thet Jews and Christians have no certainty on this 
subject, that they differ, and that one of them blindly follows the other, 
although they had done their ntmost in the study of the places of the 
moon, and in the researches regarding her motions (lit. expeditions) and 
stations. 

Thereupon they had recourse to the astronomers, and composed their 
Canons and books, beginning them with disserte{ions on the elements of 
the knowledge of the Arsbian months, adding various kinds of compu- 


tations and chronological tables. Now, people, thinking that these 


calculations were based upon the observation of the new-moons, adopted 
some of them, attributed their authorships to Ja‘far Al-sidik, and 
belicved that they were one ef the mysteries of prophecy. However, 
thesa calculations are bascd not upon the apparent, but upon the mean, ic. 
the corrected, motions of sun and moon, upon « lunar year of 3543 days, 


and upon the supposition that siz months of the year are complete, six 


incomplete, and that each complete month is followed by an incomplete 


one. 


So we judge from the tature of their Canors, and from the books 
which are intended to establish the bases on which the Canons rest. 


10 


80 


40 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON THE NATURE OF SIONTHS. 


But, when they tried to fix therehy the heginning and end of fasting, 
their calculation, in most cases, preceded the legitimate time by one day. 
Whereupon thsy set about eliciting curious things from the following 
word of the Prophet: “ Fast, when she (new-moon) appenrs, and cease 
fasting when she re-appears. ” For they asserted, that the words “ fast, 
tohen she appears’ ” (ary) Yyeyo), mean the fasting of that day, in ths 
afternoon of which uew-moon hecomes visible, as people say, “ prepare 
yourselves to meet him” (apuS Ye) i in which case the act of preparing 
precedes that of mecting. 

Besides, they assert that the month of Ramadiin has never less than 
thirty days. However, astronomers and all those whe consider the sub- 
ject attentively, are wel] aware that the anpearance of new-moon docs 
not proceed regularly according to one and the same rule for several 
reasons: the mation of the moon varies, being somctimes slower, some- 
times faster; she is sometimes near the earth, sometimes far distant; 
she ascends in north and south, and descends in them; and each single 
one of these occurrences may take place on every point of the ecliptic. 
And besides, some sections of the ecliptic sink faster, others slower. 
All this varies according to the different latitudes of the countries, and 
according to the difference of the atmosphere. This refers either to 
different places where the air is eitber naturally clear or dark, being 
always mixed up with vapours, and mostly dusty, or it refers to different 
times, the air heing dense at one time, and clear at another. Besides, 
the power of the sight of the observers varies, some being sharp-sighted, 
others dim-sighted. And all these circumstances, however different 
they are, are liable to various kinds of coincidences, which may happen 
at sach heginning of the two months of Ramadin and Shawwil under 
innumerable forms and varicties. For these reasons the month Ramadin 
is sometimes incomplete, sometimes complete, and all this varies accord. 
ing to the greater or less latitude of the countries, so that, eg. in 
northern countries the month may be complete, whilst the same menth 
is incomplete in southern countries, and vice vers. Further, also, these 
differances in the various countries do not follow one and the same rule; 
on the contrary, one identical circumstance may happen toe one month 
several consecutive times or with interruptions. 

But even supposing that the use which they make of those tables and 
caleulatians were correct, and their computation agrced with the appear: 
ance of new-moon, or preceded it hy one day, which they have made a 
fundamental principle, they would require special computations for each 
degree of longitude, because the variation in the appearance of new- 
moon does not depend alone upor the latitudes, hut te a great extent 
also upon the longitudes of the countries. For, frequently, new-moon 
is not seen in some place, whilst she ¢g seen in another place not far to 
the west ; and frequently she is seen im hoth places at once. This is one 
of the reasons tor which it would be necessary to have special calculations 


78 aLBirOont. 


aud tablea for overy single degree of longitude. Therefore, now, their 
theory is quite utopian, viz. thst the month of Ramadan should alwaya 
be complete, and that both its beginning and end should be identical in 
the whole of the inhabited world, as would follow from that table which 
they use. 

if they contend that from the (above-mentioned) tradition, which is 
traced hack to Muhammad himself, the obligation of making the 
beginning and end of fasting precede the appearance of new-moon, 
follows, we muct say that such an interpretation is unfounded. For the 
particle Lam (=-~5,3t 93) relates to future time, as thay have mentioned, 
and relates to past time, a8 you say, €9.:— el yo cote LA od 
(“ dated from this or that day of the month”), t.e. from that moment when 
azdays of the month were past already, in which cass the writing does 
not precede the past part of the month. And this, not the first 
mentioned, is the meaning of that tradition. Compare with this the 
following saying of the Prophet: ‘ We are illiterate people, we do not 
write nor do we reckon the month thus and thus and thns,” each time 
showing his ten fingers, meaning 2 complete month or thirty days. Then 
he repeated his words, saying, “and thus and thus and thue,” and at 
the third time he held back ons thumb, meaning an incomplete month 
or twenty-nine days. By this generally known sentence, the Prophet 
ordained that the month should be one time complete, and incomplete 
another time, and that this is to be regulated by the appearance of new- 
moon, not by calculation, as he says, “we do not write, nor do we reckon 
(caleulate).” 

But it they say that the Prophet meant that each complete month 
should be followed hy an incomplete one, as the chroaologists reckon, 
they are refuted by the plain facta, if they will not disregard them, and 
their trickery in both small and great things, in all they have committed, 
is exposed. For tha conclusion of the first-mentioned tradition proves 
the impossibility of their assertion, viz. ‘Faust when she (new-moon) 
appears, and cease fasting when she re-appoare, but if heaven te clouded so 
as to prevent your observation, reckon the month Sha‘bdn as thirty days.” 
And in another tradition, the Prophet says, “If a cloud or black dust 
should prevent you from observing the new moon, make the number thirty 
complete.” For if the appearance of new-moon ha known either from 
their tables and calculatione, or from the statements of the anthors of 
the canons, and if the beginning and end of fasting is to precede the 
appeatance of new-moon, it would not he neceseary to givo full thirty 
days to the month Sha‘ban, or to count the month Ramadan as full 
thirty days, in case the horizon shouid be covered by a cloud or by dust. 
And this (ie. to give full thirty daye to Ramadan) ia not possible, except 
by performing tho fasting of the day in the evening of which the new- 
moon ig firet seen, 


10 


20 


80 


40 


10 


80 


40 


ON THE NATURE OF MONTHS, 79 


If, further, the month Rama@in wero always complete, and its 
beginning ware known, people might do without ths observation of 
new-moon for the month Shawwal, In the samo way, the word of 
the Prophet : “and coass fasting when she (new-moon) re-appeare,” is to be 
interpreted. 

However, party spirit makes clear-seeing eyes blind, and makes sharp- 
hearing ears deaf, and instigates people to engage in things which no 
mind is inclined to adopt. But for this reason, such ideas would not 
have entered their heads, if you consider the traditions which occur in 
the books of the Shi'a Zaidiyya,—may God preserve their community !— 
end which have been corrected by their authorities,—2:may God bless 
them !—as for instance, the following: In ths tims of the Prince of the 
Believers (‘Ali) people had been fasting twenty-eight days in the month 
of Ramadan, Then he ordered them still to perform the fasting of one 
day, whick they did. The fact was that both consecutive months, 
Sha‘ban and Bamadan, were imperfect, and there had becn some obstaclo 
which bad prevented them from observing new-moon at the beginning 
of Ramadan; they gave the month the full number of thirty days, and 
at the end of the month the reality of the case became evident. Then 
there is the following saying, related to have been pronounced by ‘Abi 
‘Abd-Allah Algidik : “ The month of Ramadan is liable to the same increase 
and decrease as the olher months.’ Also the following is reported of the 
eame: “If you observe the month Sha'bin without being able to eve the new- 
soon, count thirty and then fast." The same 'Abi-‘Abd-Allah Alsadik, on 
being asked regarding tho new-moon, said: “If you see the new moon, 
fast, and tf you see her again, cease fasting.” All these traditions in the 
code of the Shi'a refer only to the fasting. 

It is astonishing that our masters, the family of the Prophet, listened 
to such doctrines, and that they adopted them as a uniting link for the 
minds of the community of the bcliovera who profess to follow them, 
instead of imitating the example of their ancestor, the Prince of the 
Believers (‘Ali), in his aversion to eonciliating the obstinate sinners, 
when hs spoke: “JZ did not hold out an arm to thoss who lead astray” 
(i.e, I did not lend support to them). 

As regards the following saying, ascribed by tradition to Alsidik: 
“When you observe the new-moon of Rajab, count fifty-nine days, and 
then begin fasting ;” and tbe following saying ascribed to tho same: “If 
you seo the new-moon of the month of Ramadan at the time when she 
appears, count 354 days, and then begin fasting in the next followmg 
year. For the Lord bas created the year as consisting of 860 days. 
But from these he has excepted six days, in which he created the heavens 
and tho earth; therefore they (these six days) are not comprehended 
in the numher (of the days of the year) '—regarding these traditions we 
say, that, if they were correct, his (Algidik’s) statement on this subject 
would rest on the supposition, that it (the month Ramadan) was really 


p- 87 


p. 68. 


80 ALRfRONI. 


greater in one place, and did not fellow the same rule everywhore, as we 
have heretofore mentioned. Such a method of accounting for the six 
days is something so subtle, that it proves the tradition to be,falee, and 
renders it void of authenticity. 

Ina chronicle I have read the following : "Abd-Ja‘far Mubammad ben 
Sulaimin, Governor of Kiifa, under the Khalif Mangir, had imprisoned 
‘Abd-alkarim ben ’Abf.al@uja&, who was the uncle of Ma‘n ben Zi’ida, 
one of the Manichmans. Thia mau, however, had many protectors in 
Baghdid, and these urged Mangir in his favour, till at last he wrote to 
Muhammad ordering him not to put ‘Abd-alkarim todeath. Meanwhile, 
‘Abd-alkarim was expecting the arrival of the letter in bis cause. He 
said to 'Abi-aljabbar confidentially : “ If the “Amir gives me respite for 
three days, I shall zive him 100,000 dirhams.” ‘*Abi-aljahbir told this 
to Muhammad, who replied: “ You have reminded me of him, whilst I 
had forgottenhim. Remind me of him whenI return from the mosque.” 
Then, when he returned, 'Abi-aljabbér reminded him of ths prisoner, 
whereupon he (Muhammad) ordered him to ba brought and to be 
beheaded. And now, knowing for certain that he was to bs Killed, 
he said, “ By God, now that you are going to kill me, I tell you that 
I have put down 4,000 traditions (in my books), in which I forbid 
that which is allowed, and ailow that which is forbidden. And 
verily, I have made you break your fast when you ought to have 
fasted, and I have made you fast when you ought not to have fasted.” 
Thereupon he was heheaded, and afterwards the letter in his cause 
arrived. 

How thoroughly did this heretic deserve to he the author of this 
subtle interpretation which they have adopted, and of its original (i. 
the text to which the interpretation refers)! 

I myself have had a discussion with the originator of thia sect, 
regarding the Musnad-tradition (¢.e. such a tradition as is carried back by 
an uninterrupted chain of witnesses to Muhammad himeelf). On which 
occasion I compelled him to admit that consequences, similar to those 
here mentioned, follow from his theories. But then in ths end he 
eclered, that the subject was ons that of necessity resulted from the 
language (i.s. from the interpretation of the Ldm-altaxkit), and that the 
language has nothing whatever to do with the law and its corollarics. 
Thereupon, I answered: ‘‘ May God have merey upon yon! Have not 
Godand his Prophet addressed us in the language generally knownamong 
the Arabs? But the thing is this, that you have nothing whatever to do 
with the Arabic language; and alsoin the science of the law youare utterly 
ignorant. Leave ths law aside and address yourself to the astronomers. 
None of them would agres with you regarding your theory of the per- 
petual completeness of the month of Ramadin; none of them thinks 
that the celestial gloha and sun and moon distinguish the moon of 
Ramadan from among ths others, so as to move faster or slower just in 


10 


20 


60 


40 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE NATUhD OF MONTES. 81 


this partieular month. The luminaries do not mark out this month in 
particular as do the Muslims, who distinguish it by performing their 
fasting in it. 

However, arguing with people who are obstinate on purpose, and per- 
severe in their obstinacy on account of their ignorance, is not productive 
of any good, either for the student or for the object of hia researches. 
God speaks (Siira lil. 44): “If they saw a piece of heaven falling down, 
they would say, ‘It is only a conglomerated clond.” And further 
(Stra vi. 7): “If we sent down to vou a book (written) on paper, and 
they touched it with their hands, verily the unbclieving would say, 
‘This is nothing but evident witchcraft.” God grant tkat we may 
always belong to those who follow and further the truth, who crush and 
expose that which is false and wrong! 

Months of the Reformed Calendar of Almn‘tadid.—The months 
of Almu‘tadid are the Persizn months, with the same names and the 
same order. But the Persiau day> are not used in these mouths, becauss 
to the Epagomene in every fourth year one day is added by way of 
intercalation ; and so for that reason which we have meutioned, when 
speaking of the months of the Egyptians, the (Persian) uames of the 
single days have been dropped. The order of intercalation used in these 
months agrees with that of the Greeks and Syrians. 

As to the months of the other nations, Hindus, Chinese, Tibetans, 
Turks, Khazars, Ethivpians, and Negroes, we do not intend, altbough 
we have managed to learn the names of some of them, to mention them 
here, postponing it. till a time when we shall know them all, as it does 
not agree with the method which we have followed hitherto, to connect 
that which is donbtful and unknown with that which is certain and 
known. 

We have collected in the following table the names of the months 
which have been mentioned in the receding part of this book, in order 
to farilitate the study of the various kiuds of them. God leads to the 
truth ! 


The beginning of their 
montha ia the 
eacond Nauréz. 


Khwiriz. Sughdiane, 


miane, 


csrsheg's 
aes age 1 


Stay 


ae 


s 
TasLe or THE 


Mowrrszs. 


Their 
ts the appearance 
the Verna ina mith “(not vateulated) 

ae | Persians. Jews. Thambd. | Pagan Arabe, | Muslim Araba. twain ee of 
cir rn 4 ee] ie, | Kubi. 
V8 | Farwardin-M&h| Tishri Majib Almu’tamix | Almuharram| dpe Po 
3) | Ardibahisht- | Marheshwan| Majir Najir Safar Sehccth| — yy 
JShes' hurtah. Kisléw Mirid Khawwin Rath the Jxthe | ae 
VgpleS3 | Tir-Mah Tebeth Mulzim Bussan Rabi‘ the reo) Woal a r 
\yyy~ | Murdadh-Mah| Shebat Musdir | Hantam Juma the | cyt 3 
Vapye oe Adhér Haubar Zabba ore the oe , 
oy | Mihr-Méh Nisan Hauhal Al'agamin_~— | Rajab. ches Pn 
iyi | Abin Mah — | Iyar Mauha ‘Adil She‘ban Jeol Wn 
tyS) | Adher-Mab | Siwin Daimur | Nafik Ramadin who} ty 
tas | Dai-Mih Tammiz Dabir Waghl Shawwil one Slap 
wes | Bahmen-Mah | Abh Haikal | Huwa Dhi-alla‘da | sauce we 
tyle | Isfandirmadh-| "ElAl Musbil | Burak Datalbiie | ye 4,) 


| Mab 


38 


*sNQUjaay 


a9 


eee ete eee eg, | Rn oem 
ata zoybor a coon Bera ‘ oer oho a cf | Syrian month Banta the 
a cecal eck eel Pica (eee oe 
Ulugh Ay lee | May Thiéth Audyneus } Yanuarius 
Kiudik Ay untyy | June Phadphi Peritius Februarius 
Birinj Ay helt | July Athyr Dystrus Martius 
Ikinj Ay gyi | August Choiak Xauticus Maius 
Altiinj Av ayia | Septexabor Tybi Artemisius | Aprilius 
Beshinj Ay spt | October Methir Daisius Yonius 
Sekizinj Ay 6 | November Phamenéth | Panemus | Yulius 
Toluzvnj Ay gree | December Pharmithi | Lous Augustus 
Onunj Ay usp | January Pachda Gorpieus | Septembrius 
Tirtiinj Ay Be | February Payni Hyperbere- | Octombrius 
Udanj Ay xb | March Epiphi Die. | Novomliius 
Yetinj Ay yee | April Mesori Apeileus | Decembrius 


The heginning of the leap-year 


az 
aq 
ad 


The degin yas 
ieee moots 
ed day 
whieh fe ian not in rela 
tion to anything 
else. 


Teshrin the first | 


| 
: 
ie 
| 


Teshrin the last 


Kiinhe the first 


Kani the last Tafshikthanl 


yar 
| Hazirin 
Tammpiz 
| Abh 
Tol 


Taorks. 


| sifkan 
oa 


Pirs 


“BHLNOK 40 BIQLVN AHL NO 


&8 


p. 72. 


84, avaiRont. 


CHAPTER V1. 


UN THE DERIVATION OF THE EKEAS FRON EACH OTHER, AND ON THE 
CHRONOLOGICAL DATES, RELATING TO THE CONMENCEMENTS AND 
THE DURATIONS OF THE REIONS OF THE KINGS, ACCORDINO TO THE 


VARIOOS TRADITIONS. 


It is the special object at which I aim in this book, to fiz the durations 
(of the reigns of the kings) by the most correct and perspicnous method. 
But, now, wishing to explain the derivation of the eras from each other 
in conformity with the usual mode of the canons, which specify the 
various kinds of calculation and of derivation (e.g. stating one era in 
the terms of another), and which contain rules sn@ paradigms, I find 
this subject to be a very wide one, and the wish to embraco this wlole 
science compela me to cause trouble both te myself and to the reader. 

Agreeahly to the method which I have adhered to from the beginning 
of this book, I shall explain the intervals between the epochs of the 
usual eras by 9, measure which is counted in the same way by all nations, 
fe. by days; for, as we have already mentioned, both years and months 
aro differently measured. Everything clse is gencrally mentioned in 
years, hut for the knowledge of the intervals between the epochs of the 
eras the statement in days is quite sufficient, since it haz been impossible 
to obtain a knowledge of the real quality of the years ef the various 
eras, and there has been but little need for the use of then. 

Now, if we in some places wander about through various branches of 
science, and plunge into subjects which are not very closely connected 
with the order of our discussion, we must say that we do not do this 
because we seek to be lengthy and verbose, but as guided by the desire 
of preventing the reader from getting tired. For if the mind is con. 
tinually occupied with the study of one single science, it gets casily 
tired and impatient; but if the mind wauders from one science to 
another, it is as if it were wandering about in gardens, where, when it 
is roving over one, ancther one already presents itself; im comsequence 
of which, the mind haa a longing for them, and enjoys the sight of 
them; as people say, “ Everything that is new offers enjoyment.” 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KENQSs. 85 


Now let us begin with tho traditions of those to whom a divine beok 
was sent (Jews and Christians) regarding Adam, his children and their 
descendants. All this we shal] fix in tables, in order to facilitate the 
pronunciation of their names, and the study of the different traditions 
regarding them. On this subject we combine the traditions of the Jews 
sud Christiane, placing them oppesite to each other (in the same table). 
We commenee by the help of God, under his guidance, avd with his 


gracious support. 
1 2 2 roe A 
: ace OESg FF f BE 
B23 3D 23, T'3 ER <A 
\ iF > eee g=2 ga 9 
i The Names of tho Descendants 2 a2 ase 352 2 £3 
10 of Adam, who form the z Es 573 ~z2 23 83 
i Chronological Chain of the Era. aud Pe Fea tee & ? oF 
the Chronological Dilfereuces p =3 B22 g22 zg 33 
between Christians = 33 0OC i g 22 yas 33 
and Jewa regarding them. 2 aa a get 228 i : 
E ofa wig web £38 ¢ 
| s FS SS &s g g da ge FS 
peers armen a : : 
the birth of his son Seth . » 230 280 180 800: 980 130 
Setb ben Adam—till the birth of | 
his son Enos. 205 #435 105 807° 912 235 
Enos ben Seth—til the hirth of 
20 bis soo Cainan . 190 625 90 815° 905 9825 
Cainan ben Enos—till the birth of : 
his son Mahalalecl . - 170 995 70 = 810 | 910 395 
V—NMoahalaleel ben Cainan—till the 1 
bith of his son Jared 165 960 65 830° 895 460 
Jored ben Mahalalce!—titl the ' 
birth of his sen Euech =. 162 1122 «162 800! 962 622 
Exsoch ben Jared—till the birth of ; | 
bis son Methuselah. 165 1287 65 300) 365 687 
Methnselab ben Enoch—till the | 
30 birth of bis sou Laweceh 167) 1454-187 782) 969 874 
Lamech ben Methnselah—tinl the 
birth of bis sen Noah . 183 1642 182 695! 777 1056 
X.—Noah ben Lamech—til the birch | 
of bis son Shem . 500 2142 500 450! 950 1556 


Sbem ben Noah—till the Deluge. 100 2212 100 600 | 6Su0 1656 
From the Delage till the birth of 


Arpbaxad ben Shem - 2 2244 2 0 | O 1688 
Arpharad bea Shem—til} the birth : | 
af bis eon Salah 135 2379 35 463 | 498 1693 
40 8alab ben Arphaxad—till the birth : ! 
of bis son Eber “130 2509 30 460; 490 1723 
XV.—Ehber bao Salah—till the birth of 
his sen Peleg 18£ 2633 Si 896 | 4830 1757 
Peleg bea Eber—till the birth of : ' 
his son Ren ‘ 130 2773 80 | 179 | 209. 1787 
Bea ben Peleg—tDl the birth of | | 5 
hia son Serug . 182 2905 $2 «175 | 207 : 1819 
Serug ben Rea—till the birth of i . 
bis son Nabor . 130 «2035 30 270} 200 1849 
60 Nahor bea Serug—till the birth of : I 
his gon Terab . 73 34 23° 19) 148' 1878 
XX.—Terah bea Nahor till tho birth : 


efhiason Abraham. . “| 75 3189 70, 185! 205 ; 1948 


p. 74. 


86 ALBinonf. 


Now, he whe studies fhe numbers of years of this table, till the birth 
of Abraham, will become aware ef the difisrovce between the two 
systems (that of the Christians and that of the Jews). 

The Jewish copy of the Thera, although stating the duration of the 
lives of Abraham, Isaac, Ja.ob, Levi, Kohath, and Moses, dees not 
specify how old they were when a son was bern to each of them, nor 
how leng they lived after that ; except in the case of Abraham, Isaac, 
and Jacob. For it is stated that Isaac was born unto Abraham when 
he was 100 years of age, and that he afterwards lived 75 years mere; 
that Jacob was born unto Isasc when he was 60 years of age; that 
Jacob entered Egypt together with his sons, when he was 180 years of 
age, and that he after that lived 17 years mere. 

Now, the Iaraclites stayed in Egypt 210 years, according to the state. 
ment of the Jews, that: between the birth of Abraham and that of Meses 
there was an interval of 420 years, and that Moses was 80 years of age, 
when he led the Ieraelites out of Egypt. Frem the second book of the 
Thera, however, we learn that the entire length of the sojourning of the 
Israelites in Egypt was 430 years. If, new, the Jews are asked to 
account for this difference, they maintain that that space of time is to be 
counted from the day when: God made the treaty with Abraham, and 
promised him to make him the father ef many natiens, and to givs to 
his descendants the country of Canaan as an inheritance. But we leave 
the matter to God, whe knows best what they mean. 

The chronological differences regarding the later perieds of Biblical 
history, arising out of the three different copies of the Thora, are of the 
same kind as we have already explained. 

Hew little care the Jews bestow upon their chronology is shown to 
evidence, by the fact, that they, all of them, believe in the first instance, 
that between their exodus from Egypt and Alexander there is an interval 
of 1,000 years, corrected (i.e. made to agree with the sun or real time) 
by intercalation, and that they rely on this number in their computation 
of the qualities of the years (whether they be perfect or imperfect or 
intermediate). Bnt if we gather from their books which follow after 
the Thora, the years of every one of their rulers after Moses, the acn of 
Amram, and add them together, we get a sum which already at the 
building of Jerusalem goes heyond the millennium by such a space of 
time as cannet be tolerated in chrenelogical computations. If this sum 
were too small (less than a millennium), the difference might be accounted 
for by assuming that an interval between two persons might have been 
emitted. But a surplus in this case does not admit of any interpretation 
whatsoever. , 

Being unable to give a satisfactory answer to such a question, some of 
them assert that the nccurate specification of these years was found in 
the records of the family of Juda, and that these records are no longer 
at their disposal, but have been carried off to the countries of the 


10 


20 


30 


10 


ERA&, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 8? 


Greeka. For after the death of Solomon, the Israelites were split into 
two parties. The tribes of Juda and Benjamin elected as their king the 
gon of Solomon, whilst the ten trihes elected as their king Jeroboam, 
the client of Rehohoam, ths son of Solomon. Aud thoreupon he lcd 
them astray (to idolatry), a8 ws shall mention hereafter in the chapter 
on the Jewish festivale. His children reigned after him, and both 
parties made war upon each other. 

The following ie a synopsis of the years of their rulers, who ruled 
over them after their exodus from Egypt, when they marched towards 
Bakr-ol-kulzwm (the Red Sea) in order to pass it, and to march to Altih, a 
desert » Alhijaz, in the direction of Jerumlem; all of which rests on 
the authority of their chronicles. But they have another book which 
they cal] Séder.dlim (5 VID), ze. the years of the world, which 
contains a less sum of years than that of the booke which follow after the 
Thora, whilst in some respects it comes near to their original system. 
The statements of both these kinds of their hietorical records we have 
collected in the following synopsis. 


p. 75. 


6. 


88 aLBinont, 


The Names of the Rulers, Governors, 
Prieats, and Judges of the 
Israelites till the Foundation of the 
Temple, which is a space of 
480 years, 


The Israelites left Egypt and dwelt in 
the desert till the death of Moses 

Yehdshé'e hen Nan, the successor - 
Moses é 

‘Othn?’él ben Kenaz 

‘Eglén tho king of Mé’ab and the Ama- 
lekites of ths Bani-‘Ammén 

"Bhad ben Gérd, the iptebandeds of the 
Ephraimites . . 

Shamger ben ’AnSth . 

Debér& the | plgaecaaed and her’ liew- 
tenant Barat : 

Ths Midianites, the oppressors 

Gid‘én ben ‘Ofri, of the tribe of Manasseh 

’Abimélekh ben Gid‘én . 7 

Tola’ ben Pt'd, of the tribe of Ephraim 

ae from Gilad, of the tribe of Ma- 


aaseh 
The gons of ‘Ammén the Philistine, ie. 
the people of Palestins . . . 
Yiftah from Giltéd 
*Ibein, also called Nabehon, from Both 


Pin. . < . 
‘Abdén ben Hilal. . R : 
Ths Philistines . 
—s the giant of tho tribe of Din 
ae People without a ruler . ‘ 
8 priest 
be ark in the hands ‘of the enemies, 
until Samuel was sent ‘ 
Samuel, till they asked him to give them 
a king, whereupon he mene vats 
their king . . ‘ 
Saul, tc. Talat : 

David; he commenced building tha 
Temple i in the 11th year of his reign . 
Solomon ben Devid—il he Saahet the 

Temple. : ‘ 


rd each of them 


How lon, 


raled, 


according to the 
Biblical chronicle. 


ace 


2 
iT: 


How long each of them 


ruled, 
Séde: 


+ ee | 


3 8s | cm ts on | 


107 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


80 


the Foundation of the Temple till ite firat 


Solomon ben David—after He Tempe 


ERAS, DATLS, AND REIGNS OF EINGS. 


Tho Names of the Kings and other 
Rulers of the Israelites from 


Destraotion, whioh is a apace of 
410 years, 


was finished : 
Rehab‘im ben Solomon 


‘Asa 


Abin ben Rebabtim . 


1 ‘Abiyya_ . 


Yehéshafit hen *Asi. . : ‘ 
Yehdrim ben Yehoshafit  . . 
*‘Ahazyé hen Yebérim . 


‘Athalyi—till she was billed hy Yo'Ash 
Yousk ben *Ahazyi—till he was Yea 


by hia people 


*Amszva ben YO’ ish—till he | was killed” : 


‘Uzziya 


it ben ’Amazyé—-till he died 


Yothaim ben ‘Uzziy ya—till he died 
*Ahaz ben Yéthim—till be died 


Hizkiyya ben *Ahaz, the king of all the 


trihes . é 
Menashshé ben Hizkisya 
‘Ammon ben Menashshé 


baoeap! 4 ben bar aia he was killed 
vite king of Egy : 
vel fhaz hen Ye 3 ivy he was 


made a prisoner by the kiog ef Egy ot 
Yehéyakim ben ene ithiz, set up 
the kin 
Yehéyakhin ben 


of E ' . 


made a prisoner by Nebucadnezar 


Sidkiyya—-till he rebelled against Nebu- : 


ead 


mezar, when he was killed and the 


Temple destroyed 


The Temple remained in ruins. 


But according to another view between 
the time when they 
captivit; 


inte of 


From Daniel till the birth of the Mes- 
ish 
From the birth of the Measiah till te 


epoch of the flight of Muhammad 


Lhdyékimn, till he wae 


. 


were led into ‘ 
and Daniel there was an 


3: og |g : 
Ses) g a | 3 
¢ 4.2 sad $4: mh 
B28 2 j284| 3 
e8s. 5 [e823] ¢ 
Fag’ a |BoS| a 
Sci. 3 |Sch) 3 
bem 2 [Bal 2 
7 oe a i Ps 
SS ta 
87 | 649 | 37 | 522 
17 1666 | 17 {539 
3 | 669 2 | 541 
' 41 1710 | 41 | 582 
25 1735 | 23 | 605 
8.743 | 4 |e 
1 ; 744 | 11 j 622 
6 '750 | 6 | 638 
40 1790 | 40 | 668 
99 1319 | 29 | 697 
52 | 871 | 52 | 749 
16 | 887 | 16 | 765 
16 | 903 | 16 1273! 
29 1932 | 29 legs 
55 987 | 55 1 857 
2,989 | 2 | 859 
1 1020 | 31 | e0 
| 
3 logs | —j;< 
; 10 1083) 12 | 901 
| 3 ‘wose | 2, |e 
1 i | 
| 6 ‘ode { 11 ! 912 
"70 hue | 70 = 
i i | 
; 90 1202 | 90 Jose! 
. ! 483 hoes ‘ 489 ban 


aes pees | leap pe 


oO 
o 


'y 
a 
eal 


p. 79. 


90 ALBinoni, 


It cannot be thought strange that you should find similar dis- 
crepancies with people who have several times suffered so much from 
captivity and war as the Jews. It is quite natural that they were dis- 
tracted by other matters from preserving their historical traditions, 
more particularly at times of such distress, “when each woman who 
suckled a child forgot her child, and each pregnant woman gave hirth to 
the burtben of her womb.” (Sdra xaii, 2.) 

Besides, the governorships and headships were not always held hy ons 
and the same tribe, hut came to be divided (among several tribes) after 
the death of Solomon the son of David; then one part of them was 
held hy the tribes of Juda and Benjamin, another part by the other 
tribes of the Israelites. 

Further, their rule was not organized so well; nor their empire and 
government handed wer from one to the other in such good order as to 
render it necessary for them both to preserve the dates when each of 
their rulers ascended the throne, and to record the duration of his reign, 
except by a rough method of computation. For some people maintain 
that, after the death of Joshua, Kishan, the King of Mesopotamia, of 
the family of Lot, overpowered them, and held them under his sway 
during sight years; that then Othniel ross, And some people attribute 
to hig rule more years, others lesa. 

Frequently, one author thinks that some ruler reigned over them s0- 
and-ao many years, whilst another assigns t his rule a leas number of 
years, and maintains that the former number represents the duration of 
his whole life (not that of his rule); or a third possibility is this, that 
by adding the two spaces of tims, mentioned hy ths two authors, you 
get = common space of time for two rulers, during which they ruled 
simultaneously, 

The chronological system of the Séder-‘élim, although coming near to 
the eum (assumed by ths generality of the Jews), differs considerably 
from the statements in detail; this applies specially to the time of the 
first building of the Temple, not to mention the uncertainty which hangs 
over those points of their history which we have spoken of ‘before. 

The length of the Human Life.—Some one among the inexperienced 
and foolish people of the Hashwiyya and Dahriyya sects, have rejected 
aa incredible the long duration of lifs which has heen ascrihed to certain 
tribes in the past, specially to the patriarchs before the time of Abraham. 
Likewise they consider as monatrous what has been related of the huge 
size of their bodies. They maintain that all this lies altogether beyond 
the limit of possibility, drawing their conclusions from objects which 
they are able to observe in their own age. They have adopted the doc- 
trine of astrologers, regarding the greatest possible gift (of years of 
life) which the stars are supposed to bestow upon mankind in the 
nativities, if ths following constellation occurs: Ths sun must be at 
auch a nativity both mater familics and pater familias, ia. he must stand 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 91 


in his domus (olkes), or in his altitudo (ipopa), in a cardo, and in a con- 
cordant masculine quarter. In that case he bestows his greatest yeare, 
te. 120 years, to which the 


Moon : - adds 25 years. 
Venus - - Bs 
Jupiter - - » Ww , 


These are the smallest years of each of these three stars, for they are 
not able to add a greater number of years, if they have a concordant 
aspect (in relation to the horoscope). Further, the two unlucky among 

10 the stars (Saturn and Mars) must bave no aspect to the horoscope, so a8 
not to exercise any diminishing influeuce. The Caput Draconis must 
etand with the sun in the same sign of the ccliptic, but still sufficiently 
far from him, so as not to stand within the Spot éxAeurrexot. 

Tf this constellation occurs, it increases the gift (of years of life) of 
the sun hy one fourth, ic. 80 years. So the whole sum of years makes 
215 years, which they maintain to he the longest duration of life which 
mortal man may reach, if it is not cut short hy any accident. Tho 
natural duration of life is to he 120 years, because the existence of the 
world depends upon the sun; and this number of years represents ths 

20 greatest years of the sun. 

Those people havo settled this uestion as it best pleases them. And 
if reality followed their desire, heaven and earth would he greatly the 
worse for it, They have built their theory on a basis, the contrary of 
which is approved of by astronomers, in so far as they ascrihe ‘* greatest 
years ” to these planets, They say in their hooks that these planets 
used to bestow their “ greatest years” in the millennia of the fiery signs 
of the zodiac, when in them the rule was exercised by the superior 
planets (Saturn, Jupiter, Mays), and when the years of the sun and of 
Venus were made to exceed by far the longest duration of life ascribed 

80 to any one of the patriarchs. 

This man is their master in chronology; they. trust in his word, and 
do not oppose his audacity. He actually maintains that man may live 
during the years of a “middle conjunction” (of Saturn and Jupiter), 
when the nativity coincides with the transitus of the conjunction from 
one triguz to another, whilst the ascendens is one of the two houses of 
either Saturn or Jupiter, when the sun is mater famitiaa in day-time, and 
the moon at night, exercises the greatest power; that the same is 
possible, if this same constellation occurs at the transitus of tho con- 
junction to Aries and its trigons, 

40 And the argument for the assertion, that ths new-horn human heing 
may live during the years of the “ greatest conjunction,” t.¢. about 
960 years, until the conjunction returns to its original place, is of the 
same description. 


92 : AuBirnoni. 


Ho has explained and propounded this subject in tho beginning ef bis 
book, “ De Nativitatibua.” 

Thir. uow, is their belief in the gifts (of years of life) of tho stara. 

Regarding these years, which the single planets are supposed to 
bestow upon mankind, wa have had a discussion with the astrenomera 
who uso them, in ths Kitdb altunbih ‘ald sind‘at altamwih (i.e. the hook in 
which the swindling profession is expesed), and we have given a dircction 
how to use the hest method in all questions where these years occur in 
tha book entitled, Kité alshumitis alshéfiya lilnufis. 

Now, personal observation aloue, and conclusiona inferred therefrom, 
do not prove a jong duration of the human life, and the huge size of 
human bodies, and what else has heen related to be beyend the limits 
of possibility. For similar mattera appear in the course of time in 
manifold shapes. There are certain things which aro bound to certain 
times, within which they turn round in a certain order, and which 
undergo transfermatiens as long as there isa possibility of their existing. 
Tf they, nuw, are uot observed as long aa they are in existeuca, people 
think them to be improbable, and hasten to reject them as altogether 


} impossible, 


This applies to all cyclical occurrences, such as the mutual impreg- 
nation of animals and trees, and tae forthcoming of the sceds and their 
fruits. For,if it were possible that men did net know these occurrences, 
and then were led to a tree, atripped of its leaves, and were told 
what occurs to the trea of getting green, of producing blessoms and 
fruits, etc., they would certainly think it imprebable, till they saw it with 
their own eyes. It is fer the same reason that people, who come from 
northern countrics, are filled with admiration when they see palm-trees, 
olive-trees, and myrtle-trees, and others standing in fuli-bloom at winter- 
time, since they never saw anything like it in their own country. 

Farther, there are other things occurring at times in which no cyclical 
order is apparent, and which seem te happen at random. If, then, tha 
timo in which the thing occurred has gene by, nothing remains ef it 
except the repert about it. And if you find in such a report all the 
conditions of authenticity, and if the thing might have already occurred 
before that time, you must accept it, though you have no idea of the 
nature nor of the cause of the matter ia question, 

Irregular Formations of Nature—Thore are still other things 
which occur in like manner, but which we called “ faztie of nature” 
(lusus water), en account of their tranggressing that order which is 


20 


30 


characteristic ef their species. I, Lowever, do net call them “faults of 40 


nature,” but rather a superfiuity of material beyend the due prepertions 
of tho measure ef cverything. Te this category belong, 4.g. animals 
with supernumerary limbs, which occur somctimes, when nature, whase 
task it is to preserve the species as they are, finds some superfluous sub- 
stance, which she forms into some shape instead of throwing it nway ; 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 93 


likewiee animals with imperfect limbs, when natnro does not find the 
substance by whieh to complete the form of that auimal in eonfc: tity 
with the structure of the species to whieh it belongs; in that case she 
forms the animal in such a sbape, as that the defeet is made to lose its 
obnoxious eharacter, and she gives it vital power as much as possihle. 

This is illustrated by an example, which Thabit ben Sinan ben Thabit 
ben Kurra relates in his chronicle, viz. that he had seen near Surramnan- 
ra’ an Indian chicken that had como out of the egg without a defect, 
and of complete strueture; but its head had two heaks and three eyes. 
The same author reports, that to Tizim, in tle days of his reign, people 
brought a dead kid with the round face, the jaws and teeth like those of 
man; but it had only one ere, and something like a tail on its forehead. 
Further, he relates that in the district Almukharrim, of Baghdid, there 
was born a ehild, which died instantly; it was brought before Ghurir- 
aldaula Bakhtiy4r at the time wheu bis father Mu‘izz-aldanla was still 
alive, and he examined it. It was one complete body without « defect, 
and without an addition, except that two protuberances rose from it, and 
upon these there were two complete heads, with complete lincaments, 
with eyes, cars, two nostrils, and two mouths; between the loins were 
genitals like those of a woman, out of which the orifiee of the penis of 
& DIAN was apparent. 

Another report of bis says, that one of the nobles of the Greeks sent 

to Nagir-aldaula, in the winter of a.n. 352, two men grown together by 
the stomach ; they were Arammins, and twenty-five years of age. He 
says, they were called Melfahiyiui (i.e. two bearded men). They were 
accompanied by their father. They turned their faces towards each 
other, but the skin, which formed the common connecting link betweeu 
them, was lony, and besides susceptible of extending so far as to permit 
the one to rise from the side of the other. People describe them as 
having, each of them, separate and complete organs of generation; that 
they did their eating and drinking, and the croneratio alvi at different 
times ; that they used to ride on ove animal, the one closely behind the 
other, but 89 26 to turn their faces towards cach other; that the one had 
an inclination for women, the other for boys. 
[There is no doubt that the Vis Naturalis (the creative power of 
nature), in all work it is inspired and commissioned to carry out, never 
drops any material unused, if it mects with such ; and if there is abun. 
darce of material, the Vis Naturalis redoubles its creating work-y Such 
a double-ereation sometimes procecds in this way, that one being comes 
into existence in close proximity to another, being ot the same time 
something separate by itself, 1s, e.g. in the case of twins; sometimes a 
being comes into existence tied up to another being, as, e.g. in the case 
of the two Arameans; at other times, again, 2 beg comes into existence 
inserted into aud mixed up with anotherone, as in that caso which we 
mentioned before speakiug of the two Arammane. 


p. 81. 


p. 62. 


94 ALBIRON?. 


The various kinds of double-creations of this and other descriptions 
are also found among the other animals (besides man). There are, ¢.g. 
said to be certain species of sea-fishes that are double ones. I mean to 
say, if you open such a fish, you find a similar one inside. 

Frequently, too, tho reduplication of formation may pass into a multi- 
plication. All of which is ulso found among the plants, Look, for 
instance, at the double-fruits that are grown together, at the fruits with 
double kernels, which ars included in ons shell. Anexampls of such a 
double-formation, of which the one thing is inserted into the other, is 
an orange, in the interior of which you find anothcr orange of the same 
kind. 

Frequently the Vie Naturalis has not succeeded in finishing the double. 
creation, and producing a complete whole. In which case, she increases 
the number of limbs, sither in their proper Places, as e.g. supernumerary 
fingers—for although they are more than usual and than is necessary, 
stil] they are found in that place which is appropriated to fingers,—or not 
in their proper places. And in this casc it would be correct to call such 
a formation an Error of Nature. An instance of this is the cow that 
was in Jurjin at the time of the Sihib, and when the family of Buwaibi 
held the country under their sway. Everybody, both young and old, 
hed seen it, and they related to me that it had on tbe bunch close to the 
neck a foreleg like its other two forelegs, quite complete, with its 
shoulder, ita joints, and hoof ; and that she moved it about as she liked, 
contracting and extending it. 

This case may justly be considered an error (of nature), becanse that 
supernumerary limb waa quite useless, and becanss it had neither its 
proper place nor direction. 

Now, all these and similar classes (of uncommon creations), on which 
I have composed special beoks, would not be admitted as possible by 
anyone who did not witness them, because he would not find in them tks 
ecuditions of authenticity. 

Length of the Human Life.—The length of human life is taught 
by experience to bs regulated bya genealogical ratio. For instance, 
with the Himyarites and others, long life is a peculiarity. Besides long 
life occurs in one place to the exclusion of others, e.g. in Farghana and 
Yamaima. For well-informed people relate that in those countries some 
people grow older than anywhere elae. And in this respect they are still 
surpassed by the Arabians and Indians. 

Of this same ’Abd-Ma'shar Albalkhi, the following story is related by 
*Abh-Sa'id Shidhin in his Kitéb-clmudhakara-bilasrdr (i.e. the book in 
which ha brings mysterious subjects before the mind of tho reader) :— 
The nativity of a son of the King of Eerendib (Ceylon) was sent to him. 
His Ascendens was Gemini 11, whilst Saturn stood in Cancer 35, and the 
Sun in Capricorn vf. Now, ’Abi-Ma‘shar gavo his judgment that he 
would live during the middie cycle of Saturn, Thereupon, 1 said to 


10 


20 


80 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 95 


him, “ God forbid! The olxeScororjs moves hackward in the crisis of 
retrograde motion in a domus cadens of the cardincs, xo as not to giva 
more than its small cycle. You must subtract fifty years therefrom on 
eccount of the retrograde motion.” 

*Abi-Ma‘shar : “ Those peopls are the inhahitants of a «Aja, of whom 
one knows heforehand that they live very long, so that they frequently 
live on in a decrepit state, whilat Saturn ia their companion. I have been 
told that, if a man dies before reaching the middle cycle of Saturn, 
people wonder that he has died sn soon. If, therefore, Saturn occupies 

10 the dignity of oixoSeoworjs in a xAine of his own, he docs not, in most 
cases, give leas than his great und middle cycles, except he be iu cadente 
domo.” 

I: “But, surely he is iz eadente domo.” 

*Abi-Ma‘shar: “Quite so! He (Saturn) ia falling out of the figure 
of the Aspectus, but he ia not falling out of the Directio.” 


(Here is a lacuna.) 


The mysteries of ths second are numerous, It is likewise in a well 
beneath the earth. In this cireumatance there ia curious matter for 
astonishment. Now, in this place, they have admitted that in one nicpa 

20 people live longer than in another. 

In another place he ('Abfi-Satd Shidhin) relates of the same ’Abi- 
Ma‘shar, that he was in his company when he was asked by ’Abi-‘Igma, 
the Wazir of Saffiir, regarding something in the signe of hia nativity, 
which he (Abi-‘Igma) was alarmed about. 

*Ahfi-Ma‘shar: “ Do you know of what age your father died F™ 

*Ahi-‘Iema: ‘ Yes.” 

*Abi-Ma‘shar: “ Have you already reached the same age?” 

*Ahii-‘Iama : “TI have passed it already.” 

~Abi-Ma‘shar: “ Do you know at what age your mother died ? ” 
80 ‘Abi-Igsma: ‘Yes. That age, too, I have passed already.” 

*Abii-Ma‘shar; “Do you know how long your paternal grandfather 
lived ?” 

*Abi-‘Igma: “ Yes. But that I have not yet reached.” 

*Abi-Ma‘shar: “Then consider whether that difference, which ie 
indicated by your nativity, agreee with the life of your grandfather?” 

*Abi-‘Isma: “ Yea, it does agree.” 

*Abi-Ma‘shar: ‘In that case you are right to be alarmed.” Then he 
proceeded to explain: “ Netureis most powerful. For in any mishap that 
befals a man when he is as old as his father or mother or his paternal 

40 grandfather were at the time of their death, he is certain to perish, 
except there be strong evidence (to the contrarv). This is clear, too, in 
plants and seeds. For there are certain species of them which are 
known to exist very long, whilst othera acon meet with mishaps and 
exist only a short time.” 


p. 88. 


96 atstront. 


Now, "Abi-Ma‘shar again admits in this place that the duration of 
life is regulated hy a genealogical ratio. Therefore, that sstrological 
theory, to which thay cling, is devoid of sense, since thay admit such 9 
gonealogical ratio as not impossiblo. On the contrary, it is necessary, as 
ws have already mentioned. 

If this sect will reject sverything that does not occur in their tims or 
place, so as to fall under their personal observation, if they do not them- 
selves find this everlasting scepticism of theirs absurd, if they will not 
admit anything that hss happened in their ahsence, wo can only say that 
extraordinary occurre::ces do not happen at all times; and if they, 
indeed, happen in soms one age, they have in the course of time and 
the passing of generations no other tie which connects them with pos. 
terity except the uninterrupted chain of tradition. Nay, if they would 
draw the last conclusions from their theery,they would be mere sophists, 
and would he compelled to disbelieve anybody who would tell them that 
there are still other countries in the world besides those in which they 
are living; and other absurdities of a similar kind would follow. 

If you would listen to them on ths subjects which they propound, you 
would find that they refer to the traditions of the Indians, and rely on 
various sorts of tricks which they attribute to them. By way of argu. 
ment they always mention an Indian idol, cut out of stonc, the neck of 
which is surrounded by numerous iron collars, which represent the 
Indian eres of 10,000 years, and, if counted, would amount to an enor- 
mous sum of years. But if you then tell them what they, i.e. the 
Indians, maintain, viz. that the King of Jamilibadhra, that town whence 
the Myrebalena, the Phyllanthua emblica, and the Myrebalana bellerica are 
exported, even at the age of 250 years, :0de and hunted and marricd, 
and hehaved altogether lis a young man, and that all this was the 
consequence of a dietetic treatment, they will reject it, and declare that 
the Indians sre evident liars, not really learned men, because they hase 
their sciences upon inspiration, and that therefore their doctrines are 
not trustworthy. Besides, they will begin to speak of the subtlety of 
all the tenets of the Indians in all qnestions of law and religion, of 
reward and punishment (eschatology), and they will dwell on the various 
sorts of torture which they practise in castigating their own hodies. 

It is this sect whom God means in the verse of the Koran (Sira x. 
40): “Nay, they have declared to he a lie something, the science of 
which they did not comprehend ”; and in the other verse (Sire xlvi. 10): 
* And as they would not koe guided thereby, verily, they will say: That 
is au old lie.” They admit only that which suits them, although it he 
feehle, and they avoid everything that differs from their dogma, although 
it he true. 

I have read & book of ’Abé-‘Abdeallab Alhusain ben Thrahtm Altahart 
Alnatili, 2 treatise on the duration of natural life, where he maintains 
that its greatest length is 140 solar years, beyond which no increase is 


20 


80 


40 


10 


20 


30 


97 


possible. He, hewevor, who denies this eo categorically, is required to 
produce a proof, which the mind is obliged to accept, and in which it 
aequiesces. But he has not established the least proof for his assertion, 
except that in his premises he lays down the following theory :— 

Three Status Perfectionia ava peculiar to man— 


I. His attaining to manhood (or womanhood), the time when he 
becomes able to propagate his own race. That is the beginning 
of the second Seventh. 

Tl. When his thinking power ripeus, and hie intellect proceeds from 
Siveyus to rofqots. That isthe beginuing of the sixth Seventh, 
TH. When he becomes able to govern himself, if he be unmarried ; 
his family affairs, if he he married; his public affairs, if he 
exercise some public authority. 
The eum of these three States Pesfectionia is to be 140 ycars. 

We do not seo by what proportion “Abd-‘Abdallih has calculated these 
numbers. For there is no proportion nor progression apparent among 
them. Verily, if we conceded to him that there are three such Status 
Perfectionis, if we then counted them in the way he has done. and 
declared finally, pre-supposing we did not apprehend being required to 
catablish a proof, that the sum of these Status is 100 or 1,000 or some. 
thing like it, his method and ours would he quite the same. However, 
there is this difference, that te find, that in our time man attains those 
phases of development, which he represents as the characteristic signs 
of the Status Perfectionis, in quite other Seventhe and times than those 
which he mentions. God knows best his meaning! 

As regards the (superhuman) size of the bodies (of former genera~ 
tions), we say, if it be not necessary to helieve it for this reason, that 
we cannot observs it in our time, and that there isan enormous interrsl 
between ts and that time, of which euch things are related, it is there- 
fore by no means impossible. It is the sawe, the like of which is related 
in tho Thor: of the bodies of the giants (Nephilim, Reph4’im, ‘Endkin), 
and the helief in this has not been abandoned since the time when the 
Teraelites saw them with their own eyes. Therefore everybody may 
attack and ridicule this subject, if he likes! If the Thora was read to 
them, and they read it themselves, though up to that moment they had 
not declared the readers of the Thora to be liare, yct even if the giants 
were something quite different from what they are described to be ((.e. 
less extraordinary), they would declare the reader of the Thora to be a 
liar, in case he related anything that is not borne out by their experience 
and observation. If, indeed, there had never heen classes of men with 
bedies of un extraordinary vastness, God having given them an uncom- 
mon size (ride Koran, ii. 24), no recollection of them would have remained 
in the uninterrupted chain of human tradition, and people would not 
compare with them everybody’ who, in size exceeds their genus, as it is 


p. 84. 


98 ALBiR ON. 


known to us. For instance, the people of ‘Ad havo become provsrbial 
in thissense. But bow can I expect thom to belisvo n | regarding the 
peeple of ‘Ad, since they reject even that which is much nearer to our 
time and much more apparent? They produce such arguments as do not 
counterbalance the very weakest ef thesa arguments which are urged 
againet them. They shun accepting the striking arguments, flying 
before them like fugitive asses that fly before a liou (Koran, lx iiv. 51). 
What would they say of the monuments of larger races of men which 
oxist still at the presont time, such as tho houses which were cut intothe 
solid rocks in tho mountains of Midian, of the graves built in the rocks, 
and of bones buried jn their interior, which are as large as camel-bones 
and even larger, of the bad smell of those localities, which is so strong 
that you cannot enter there without covering the nose with something ? 
And it is the common coneout of al) who inhabit thoso places that they 
(the authors of thoes monumonts) are “the people of darkness.” But, 
when they hear of “ the day of darkness,” thay only laugh in a mocking 
way, make grimaces in haughty disdain, turn up their noses in joy over 
their theories, and in the versuasion that they are infinitely superior to, 
and altogether distinguished from all common peoplo, But God is 
eufficient for them; they will get tho reward of tkeir doings, and we 
that of oure! 

Chronological Tables. —In some book I have found tables illustrative 
of the durations of the reigns of the kings of the Assyrians, i.e. the 
people of Mogul, of the kings of the Copts, who reigned in Egypt, and 
of the Ptolemean princes, each of whom was called Ptolomaus For 
Alexander, when dying, ordered that every Inng of the Greols after him 
should be called Ptolemsous, in order to frighten the enemies, because 
the word means “the warlike.”’ In the same book I have found the 
chronology of the later kings of the Greeks. 

In this book, the interval between the birth of Abraham and 
Alemander was reckoned as 2,096 years, which is more than Jews, 
Christians, and astrologers (those who apply the conjunctions of Saturn 
and Jupiter to history) reckon. 

Now I have transferred those identical tables into this place of my 
book. Time has not enabled me to correct the names of the kings on 
the basis of their true pronunciatio. YJ hope, therefere, that everyone 
will endeavour to correct and amend them, who like myself wishes to 
facilitate the subject for the student, and to free him frow fatigue of 
research. And nobody ought to transcribe these tables and the other 
ones except him who is well acquainted with the Hurif-al-jummel, and 
honestly endeavours to preserve them correct. For they are corrupted 
by the tradition of the copyists, when they pass from hand to hand 
among them. Their emendation is a work ef many years. 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS, 


Nana or THE Krxos OF THE AgsvRtana, 
+«, the people of Mosul. 
Thoy ere 37 my numbor, and they reigned daring 1305 yoare. 


I. Bélos 
Ninos. He builtNinive in Mosul. Abra 
ham was born in the (48rd year] of 


his reign 
Semiramis the ‘wife of Ninos. She 
10 founded the ancient Simarr& west of 
Surra-man-te'a 


Zamés the son of Ninos. Abraham was 
tried by him, and fled therefore to Pa. 
lestine in the Lon year) of his reign 


V. Areios . : * 

Aralios . . ‘ . ‘ 

Xerxes . . . ‘ 

Armamithrés . “ 

Béléches . : ; 

20 X. Balnios . : : 

Mamythos F é 

Manchalous . z . . 

Sphairos . . ; 6 

XV. Seales . . . - 

Sparethus . . . 7 

Askatades . a . : 

Amyntés . ; ‘ : 

Bétochos is 7 ‘ ‘ 

80 XX. Balatorés 7 . ‘ . 

Lampridés . . : ‘ 

Lampares . . < 

Panyas . . . . F 

XXV. Siésamos . ‘ 

Mithmios 


Tautanés, In his time Tliou was taken 
by the Greeks, who had made war 


upon it . 
40 Teutates : . . : 
Thinaics . . . ’ 
XXX. Derkylos 
Bupales, In his time David ‘veigned 


over 

Laosthenés. In his time the Israelites 

were divided into two one . 

Piritiades : 3 
Ophrataios . 

XXSXV. Ophratants. On the 167th day of the 
42nd year of his reivn Homer was 
born, whe is with the Greeks the first 
poet, as Imru’ we with the Arabs 


Akraganés 
XXXVIL. Thanos Konkolerce . E ‘ 


100 aLBistnt. 


p: 87. Western authors relate that, during the reign of this Inet king 
(Thénes Konkoleros. aliag Sardanapalna), the prophet Jonah was sent to 
Niniveh, and that. a foroigner, called Arhé§ (Arbaces) in Hebrew, Dah-ak 
in Persian, and Dakédk in Arabio, came forward against this king, made 
war upon him, put him to flight, killed him, and took possession of the 
empire, holding it till the time when the Kayinians, the kings of 
Babylonia, whom western authors are in the habit of calling Chaldans, 
brought the empire under their sway. The reign of Arbaccs lasted 
seventy-two years, 

Here we must remark that the Chaldeans are not identical with the 10 
Kayaniane, but were their governors of Babylonia, For the original 
residence of the Kayfniana was Balkh, and when they camo down to 
Mesopotamia, people took to calling them by the same name which they 
had formerly applied to their governors, i.e. Chaldmans, 

According to some chronicler, Nimréd ben Kfish ben Ham ben Neah, 
founded a kingdom in Babylonia twenty-three years after the Confusion 
of Languages. And that wae the earliest kingdom established on earth. 
The Confusion of Languages happened contemperaneously with the birth 
of the patriarch Re‘t. Thesame chronicler mentions other kings that rose 
after Nimrdd, until the empire passed into the hands of the Aseyrian 20 
kings, the chronology of whom has been illustrated by the preceding 
table. The chronology of the kings that have been recorded, ia repre- 
sonted hy the following table :-— 


Tne Kanes or BagYronts. 


. 


rus. 226 
p hadh : . . , A 286 | 80 
Babylonia dfaovArcveds, till it was occupied by the 
Assyrians : % . , . 241 


p. 88, For the kings of Babylonia, we have also found another chronological 
tradition, beginning with Nehukadnezar the First (2.0. Nahonassar), and 
ending with the time when in consequence of the death of Alexander 
& Krérrys, people began to date by the reigns of the Ptolemwan princes. 
This tradition, now, we have transferred into this book, having corrected 
the numbers for the duratiom ot their reigns, As to the names, how- 
ever, I have simply transcribed them letter by leti:r, since I have net 
had an opportunity to correct them according to their; ronunciation. 40 
The following table contains thie chronological tradition, 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OP KINGS, 


the Almagest begins 
Nebucadnesnr. Nadios 
Chinzéros 3 . : 
Tlulaios 
peeling al 
Arceanus 


"ABasiievres 

eons 

paranadios : 5 ‘ 
Erigebalos . ; 
Mesesimordakos 5 
*ARaciAenes Sedrepos . 
Asaridinos  . ‘ 
Saosduchinos 

Noebopolassaros and Kinilndanos 
Nebucadnezar 


pe oeeaiaed who conquered Jerusalem 


teshassar . ; 
Darius the Median, the First 
Cyrus, who rebuilt “Jerusalem 


Carabyses : . ° 
Darius ‘ ‘ . 
Xerxes ‘ « . 
Artaxerxes Primus 

Darius 

Artaxerses Secundus . 

Ochus : : 

Sorue 

Alezander ben. Macedo, ¢ 6 acioryt 


Henceforward people commenced to date 
from the reign of Philippus. 


Tapie or tHE Krscs or tae Cnarpz2ans. 


Bukbtanaggar Primus. With him the era in 


. 


* 


. 


. 


fp 


p. 89 


102 


ALbinoni. 
p- 90. 
Nass of saz Corric Krxos mm Borer. How long 
They are 34 in number, besides the Persians, and Bets 
they reigned during 894 years. of then 
IL. Diospolits : 4 dl 
Smendis . . ‘ 
Susennés ? . F 
Nephercherés . ; 7 
V. Amendphthis , < ; 
QOsochér . : : 
Psinechéa ; 
Psisennégs zm ‘ 
Sesonchésis . a 
X. Osérthén : 4 
Takelithis . : 
Pothhastigs =. . ei 
Osérthén . : 
xy ae 3 R : . 

> oalgolt.t (Euphanina ?) : ‘ 
Sakexds ‘Btbiopa : é 
Sehichés ” ‘ . A 
Tarakos Mthiops ; : 
Ammaris Atthiops s 

p, 91, XX. Stephinathis , ; ; : 
Nechepsés ‘ : . 6 
Nechaé : : . : 8 
Haren el : “4 
echepsé (?) Nechaé ‘ 

* rates ‘ ® " 7 
Vaphris . i a R 95 
Amasig % - - i“ 42 
re Pernians till Darius ‘ .{ 114 

yrtaios - s ra 6 

XXX. Nepherités . 7 : 3 6 
A ig e < Fe . 12 
Psammitbis and Mathatos Q) 2 
Nektanshés . 7 : 13 

Teés , > 

. Nektanebos . 18 


Henceforward people ceased to date by the 
reigna of these and the Chaldean 28 


and commenced to use the era of Alex. 
ander the Greek. 


* P. adds 68, L. adda 3, es tho reading of anothor manueczipt, 


10 


30 


a” 


ERAS, DATES, AXD REIGXS uF KINGS. 1038 


Here we add the chrenological tab!es of the Ptelemmaus and the 
Roman Emperors. Chronolegy since ths time of Philippus (Arideus) 
consists of three parts:—I. of Anai Philippi; TL. of Anni Augnsti ; 
DI. of Anni Diocletiani. The first are the non-intercalated years of the 
Alexandrians; tho secord are the iuterealated years of the @recks; and 
of the same kind as the second are the Anni Diecletiani. With this 
king a new era conmmences, because, when the empire had devolved upon 
him, it remained with his descendants, and because after his death the 
Christian faith was generally adopted. Another (later) era than the 
ra Diocletiani has not been mentioned, although the rule several times 
alipped out of ths hands of his family. God knows hest! Here follow 
the tables :— 


| Names op tae Kixcs or Maceoonta, [to jae | Sam of 
who are the Greeks (loniang), also called they the 
Ptolemmans. reigned. | years. 

Philippns . ; ‘ ; ? 7 
Alexander II. filius Alcxandri F 12 19 


Ptolemmus filius Lagi $ Aoyxds. He conquered 
Palestine, went up to Jernsoiem and led the 
Israelites into captivity. Afterwards he restored 
them to liberty and pete them a present of the 


vases of their Temple. 2¢ 39 
Ptolemsous Philadelphus. He caused the © There 
to he translated fala Greek 38 7? 
Ptolemaus Euergetes Phuskon Primus. . 25 102 
Ptolempus Philometor . . V7 119 
Ptolemwus Epiphanes Phuskon Secundus . ‘ 24 148 
Ptolemseus Philopator the Deliverer - : 35 | «178 
Ptolemsus Euergetes Alexander Seeundus 7 29 207 
Ptolemseus Soter the Iron-smith, Artium Faulor . 836 243 
Ptolemeus Dionysius Optimus . -| 29 272 
ee atra, till the time when Gajus, in Latin | 
jus, became Dictator . | — 275 
Glopsien till the death of Gajus ‘and the succes. | 
sion of his son Augustus. 4a, Gu. 279 
bat le _ the time = he (Augustus) killed ‘ 
m1. 294 


_ The cajling Cleopatra by the name of Ptolemeus is a point of dis- 
cuasion, on account of her being a woman. But as she resided in 
Alexandria, and was the queen of it, she was called by that name. Gajus, 
in Iatin Jutius, meins “ king of the world.” 


94, 


104 ALBIRONT. 


NaNeEs or rE Roman dikes, 
i.e. the Cusers who resided in kome. They aro 
the Band-el'asfar, i.c. the desceadauts 
of 8ephé ben ’Eliphiz ben Esan bea Isaak ben Abrabam. 


Augustus Cosar, after he had killed Cleopatra. 
Tiberius filius Augusti 7 . . . 


jus A . : ‘ ‘ : 
Claudius, who killed the Apostle Paul and Simeon 
Petrus. ; . P . é 
Nero, who killed the believers ; ° 
Vespasianus. One year after his accession to the 
throne he concuered Palestine, and having he- 
sieged the Jews in Jerusalem for three years, ho 
destroyed it, killed many, scattered the rest over 
ae empire, and aholished their religious rites 
Titus ‘ j . P ¥ 
Domitianusa. In the9th year of his reign Johannes 
the Evangelist was banished. Thereupon he hid 
himself on an island till the emperor's death. 
Then he left the island and dwelt in Ephesus 
Nerva : é - . . 
Trajanus ‘ 7 . 3 : 
Hadrianus. It was he who destroyed Jerusalem 
and forhads anyone entering it in the 18th year ! 
of his reign : z . : ‘ | 
Antoninus. It was he who rebuilt Jerusalem. 
Galenus says that hs composed a book on ana- | 


tomy in the beginning of his reign . . 
Commodus . ‘ “ ‘i - . | 
Severusand Antoninus. . é a) 
Antoninus alone. Towards the end of his reign : 

Galenus died ’ . ‘ i 
Alexander filius Mammoam. Mammma means 

“weak” . F = 7 . a 
Maximinus . < 2 : 5 | 
Gordianua . . : ; . | 
Philippus_ . ‘ . é . os 
Decius, who occurs in tho story of the Seven ; 

Sleepers . F : . . a 
Gallus : : . . - : 
Valerianus . - R 7 P . 
Claudius. . 3 . : | 
Aurelianus . . : é " a 
Prohus . , : . : a 


Carus and Carinus . F : : os 


a 
20 co 


_ 
SONAR GS DA 


10 


20 


10 


20 


30 


50 


| 
| 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 


Nauzs oF tHE Kixos op Cealsrexnoxt. 


Diocletionne : P 7 * * - ‘ 

Coustaotious. The first king who adopted Christianity. Ho 
hails the walle of Coustsntinople. In the lst year of his 
reign hia mother, Helene, sought for tha wood of the Cross, 
which sho fiually foand. lo the 19th year ths lishops 
assembled in Nica end estahliebed tho cauons of Chris- 
tianity ' . 


Constantinns (Constautius) : 7 ~ : ‘ 
Julianos Apostata ‘ : . - 
Valentiniaons =. . . 
Valens. Ile was barned, in escaping, i in a bara 

Theodosius the Great. as . 
Arcadina, his son > 


Slee eees Minor. In his tima Nestorius was escommani- 

cat . 

Marcianne acd his wife Paleb eria. In thair tima the Jacobites 
were excommunicated . 5 

Leo tha Grent. He belouged to the moderate party F 

Zeno Alarminéki. He wae a Jacobito . 

Anastasins. He boils Ammorium, and wea a Jacobite 

Sustinus . ‘ 

Sustiniaoua. He bnitt the church in Ruha (Edessa) . A 

Tiberins . 7 

Mauricios. Ho helped Kisra against Bahrim ShObin. +. 

Phoces, whe wae vesieged in Celene le i seca 


the general of Kiara . F 
Heraclius tho wise ' ¢ . 
Couetaotinus. He was murdered j in tbe beth . * . 
Constaations ‘ * ' : . 
Constantious s . _ 


Justinianus. Tho Greeks ent off his noso 
Leontins. He was found to be a weak ae being decrepit. 
So be was dethroned 


Tiberius. Apsimarus . . . : . 
w ee Bhinométos 
Philip 


Anactaaiue, Atlinns (Artemine). He was dethroned, when 
he could not carry on the wor 

Theodosins. Hs was besieged by Maclama beu ‘Abd- almalik’ 

Leo the Great. Hae deceived Maslama and reprlion al age 
Coustantinople 

Covstantinns, the son of ‘Leo the Grest™ 

Leo Jonior, the son of Vonstantiuus Seuior 

Constentinus Junior, the sou of Leo Junior . 

Ancgusta (Irene) ruled tho Greok empire . 

Nicaphoras and Stauracins tho evn of Nicepharus 

Michael the son of Georgius se 

Leo, till be was murdered by Micheal i fa the chareh * 

Michael Constantinopolitenas, the murdcrer of Leo bea Theo- 
philus hea Michael Constantinopolitanus  . ‘ 

Baailins the Slavonian, the leat of their kinga . Pi 


How long 
each of 
them 


reigued_ 


21 


_ -_ ao 
wuomasake we OMNIS 


> 
n 
B 


105 


106 : ALBIRON!, 


. How long c 
Tae Kinas oy ConsrantinoPLe, Sum of 
3 Hamya Alisfuhani records them on the hel _ tho years. 
autlioniey of of ow he ju Alwaki‘, who took them A 

at belonged to the rai A 

Greak Eaporor Yeara, Months.! Years, Mouths. 
Congtantinas, the aon of Helene, the Teles .| 81 } 81 
Constantinns, his soa * ‘ .| 24 65 
ZJnlianus his nephew . : : -| 2 &7 
Theodosius .. 5 ‘ 5 .| 10 68 


Gratianus. ‘Valeatininons . ‘ 
Arcadius, the cou of Theodoelus é 
Theodoeius, ths son of Aresdita me 


Leo. Daring his reign the ‘ompire of the Ban. 
‘Umayya wae dismombered 25 
Loo, tho gon of Constantinus. People think ‘thet he 
was @ worthless character, apes inntenaing = 


0 0 

0 0 

6 6 

9 8 

. . 0 8 

‘ . 8 6 

* . 0 6 

18 : . 5 . : i] 8 

Leo Senior . . < | 16 0 1974 6 

Leo Junior . % " ¥ * 1 0 176 6 

Zeno . ‘ ’ . : . | 7 0 | 192 6 

Anseatasiag =. ’ 5 ’ . -| 27 4 } 219 10 

ae . . . a -| dl : = a 

Kaatréndas. Daring his reign the tapas was horn | 88 

Stephanus . en 4 ] 2781 1 
Marefanus (Maaricius). Daring hie reige the Pro. 

phot reocived his Divine mission . 20 4 298 6 
Phocas. During his =ee tho flight of the Prophet 

oceurred 8 oO } 801 6 
Heraolius =e his aoa. Daring their reign the Pro- 

phst diod . ; . -| 82 O } 332 6 

Cobetantions, the souof Heraclee 5 .| 25 Oo ||3e7P| 6 

Constantinos, the soa of Heracles’ wife : -| 7 O | 884 6 

Constantinns, the eoa of Hsreoloa ‘ «| 10 0 || 394 5 

Leo or Leoe (LAwi or Elytin) . . -| 8 oO || 397 6 

Tiberius . . : ‘ . q 0 411P 6 

Estinus (Justinianna) . 7 . . 6 0 217 6 

Anastesius > ‘ ‘ : . 6 0 423 6 

Theodosius . . . 2 0 426 & 

8 8 


fength of hie reign . . 6 O | 466 8 
Conetautinus, the son of Leo . i % - 9 10 || 465 8 
Constautinus . ‘ 6 6 471 11 
Treas, who received the empire from her father 6 o 476 ] 11 
Nicephorus, at the time of satire Epes ‘ . 8 11 486 10 
Btauracinus, hiason =. * . i) 2 
Miohael, hie eon . : : F | 7 6 |[47er)]] 6 
Theophiloe, hig gon. -| 22 8 98 8 
Micheol, ths eon of Theophilus. With this king ths 

dynasty one the tims of te Ehalif Al- 

ma‘tass * F .| 28 Oo || 628 8 
Basilius tho Slavonian. -| 20 Oo | 648 8 
Leo tho sco of Besilios. Anno Hifi 278 at the | 

timo of Almu‘tadid . 28 oO. |f672) g 
Alexander, the son of Boailius. He diced "from & | 

tamour in ths belly, A.u. 299 . . . 2 |[e7s] |} 
Constantinus, the ean of Leu, 4a. 801. _ _ - _ 


10 


20 


80 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 107 


Chronology of the Persians,— The Persians call the firat man p. 99. 


Geydmarth, with the surname Girshdh, ic. * king of the mountain,” or, 28 
others say, Gilshah, ie. “king of the clay,” becausc at that time there was 
no other man in existence (but himself, there being nothing but clay). 
People say that his name (Gaydmarth) means “a living, rational, mortal 
being.” 

The chronology of the Persians beginning with Gay émarth ia divided 
into three parts :-— 


A. Part I From Gayémarth till the time when Alexander killed 
Darius, seized upon the provinces of the Persians, aud transferred their 
scientific treasures to his own country. 


B. Part I. From that time till the time when Ardashir ben Biibsk 
came forward, and the Persian empire was re-established. 


C. Part TT. From that time till the time when Yazdajird ben 
Shahrytr was killed, when the empire of the Sasanian dynasty was 
dissolved and Islim arose. 


Regarding the beginning of the world, the Persians relate many 
curious traditions, how Ahriman, i.e. the devil, was born out of the 
thought of God and of his pride in the world, And also regarding 
Gayémarth: for God, being hewildered at the sight of Ahriman, was 
covered with sweat on the forehead; this he wiped off and threw away ; 
and out of this sweat Gayémarth was born. Then God sent him to 
Ahbriman, who overpowered him, and began to travel about in the world, 
always riding upon him. At last, Ahriman asked him what was the 
most odious and horrible thing to him. Whereupon he said, that on 
arriving at the gate of hell he would suffer a painful terror. On having 
arrived, then, at the gate of hell, he became refractory, and managed by 
various vontrivances to throw off the rider. But now Abriman re- 
mounted him, and asked him from what sids he was to begin devouring 
him, Gaydémarth answered: “From the side of tho foot, that I may 
still for some time look at the beauty of the world,” knowing quite well 
that Ahriman would do the contrary of what he told him. Then Ahriman 
commenced devouring him from the head, and when he had come aa far 
as the testicles and the spermatic vessels in the loins, two drops of 
sperma fell down on the carth. And out of these drops grew two 
Riba bushes (Rhewin rides), from among which Méshii and Méshina 
sprang up, i.e. the Persian Adam and Eve. They are also called Malhi 
aud Malhayina, and the Zoroastrians of Khwirizm call them Mard and 
Mardana. 

This is what I have heard from the geometricien, ’Abd-alhasan 
Adharkhor. 

In a different form this tradition, regarding the origin of mankind, is 
related by ’Abi-‘Ali Muhammad ben ’Ahmad Albalkhf, ths poet, in the 


100. 


108 Acstroént. 


Shihnima, who premises that he bas corrected hie report on tho basis of 
the follewing sources :— 
J. Kitdb-siyar-almulak by ‘Abdallfih ben Alunukaffa‘. 
O. 35 % by Muhammad ben Aljahm Albarmaki, 


Ti. 3 - by Hisham ben Alkasim. 
Iv. 7 7 by Bahram ben Mardanshih, the Maubadh 
ef the city of Sabir. 
Vv. is 5 by Bahrim ben Mibriin Alisbahani. 


Besides he haa compared his account with that of the Zcroaatrian 
Babrim of Herit. He saya; Gayémarth stayed in Paradise 3,000 yeara, 
i.e. the millennia of Aries, Tourus, and Gemini. Then he fell down on 
the earth and lived there safely and quietly three other millennia, those 
of Cancer, Leo, and Virgo, till the time when all that is evil in the world 
wae brought about by Abriman. The story is as follews: that Gayé- 
marth, who was called Girskith, because Gir means in Pahlavi “ moun- 
tain,” dwelt in the mountains (Aljibél-Media), being endowed with so 
touch beanty that no living being could view him without becoming 
terrified and losing the control of ita senses. 

Now, Ahriman had a son called Khrira, who ene day met with Gayé- 
marth, and was killed by him. Whereupen, Ahrimon complained to God 
of Gayémarth ; and God resolved to punish him in order to keop those 
covenants that existed between him and Ahriman. So he showed him 
first the punishments of this world and of the day of resurrection and 
other things, ao that Gayémarth at last desired to die, whereupon God 
kilied him. At the same moment two drovs of sperma fell down out of 
his loins on the meuntain Dimda&dh in Istakhr, and out of them grew 
two Rihds-bushee, on which at the beginning of the ninth month the 
limbs (of two human bodies) began to appear, which by the end of that 
month had become complete and assumed human shape, These two are 
Méshé and Méshydina. Fifty years they lived without any necessity for 
eating and drinking, joyfally and without any pain. But then Abriman 
appeared to them in the shape of an old msn, and induced them to take 
the fruit of the trees. He himself commenced eating them, whereupon 
he at once again became a young man. And now they (Mésha and Mé- 
ahy4na) began to eat. Then they were plunged into misfortunes and evils. 
Lust arose in them, in consequence of which they copulated. A child 
was born unto them, but they deveured it from sheer ravenousness. 
But then God inspired their hearts with mildness. Afterwards the wife 
gave birth to six other children, ize names of whom are known in the 


10 


20 


80 


Avast’. The seventh birth produced Siyimak and Fravak, who married 40 


and begot a eon Héshang. 

Regarding the chronolegy of this first part, the lives of the kings end 
their famous deeds, they relate things which do not seem admissible to 
the mind of the reader. However, the aim of our undertaking being to 


“10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REtGNS OF KINGS. 109 


coBect and to communicate chronological material, net. to criticize and 
correct historical accounts, we record that on which the scholars of the 
Persians, the Hérhadhs, and Maubadhs of the Zoroastrians agree among 
themselves, and whieh is reccived on their authority. At the same time 
we collect the materials in tables, as wo have done heretofore, in urder 
that our work may proceed on the samo plan which we have laid down 
for the chronologies cf the other nations. 

To the names of ths kings we add their epithets, because they are 
distinguished by individual epithets, whilst as to the other kings, if they 
have any epithet at all, it is one common to their whole class, by which 
he as well as everybody else who reismns in hia place is called. Those 
common epithets correspond to the Shahinshih of the Persians. A list 
of them we give in the following table :— 

The Epithets 


F that apply to the 
Tho Classes of Princcs. Prinecs of these Classes. 


The Sisinian kings of the Persians. . Shihinshih and Kisra. 
The Greek kings. “ 7 . . Basili, i.e. Cesar. 
The kings of Alexandria . : : . Ptolumeus. 

re Yaman 7 Tubba‘. 


Bs the Turks, Chavar, and Ta. 
gharghnz. =. ws Khatkhan. 


sy the Ghuzz-Turks . : . Hanita. 
» the Chinese . , . . Baghbir. 
5 India . é ‘ . . Balhara. 
Pe Kannij ‘ é . . Rabi. 
” the Ethiopians . . . Alnajishi. 
” the Nnbiany 5 Kabil. 
s the islands in the sastein 
ocean . . rs . Maharaj. 
” the mountains of Tabaristin Ispahhadh. 
» Dunbfwand ‘ A . Masmaghin. 
” Gharjistan . : 7 . Shar. 
” Sarakhs . : . Zadbawaihi. 
a Nas& and Abiward : . Biahmana. 
” Kash . i ‘ A . Nidin. 
” Farghina . : : . ITkhshid. 
” Asrishana . , : . Afshin. 
ss Shish . if ‘i : . Tudun. 
os Marw . : F : . Mihawaihi. 
” Nishipir . 3 ‘ . Kanbir. 
Samarkend . : ‘ . Tarkhin. 
os Sarir . : : : . Alhajjaj. 
s Dahistin . g . . Sal 


. Injin . wt Anfihpadh, 


pu 


02. 


110 Albinoni. 


The Epithota 
The Classes of Princes. that apply to the 
Princos af theso Claseca, 


The kings of the Sclavonians . .  « Kabbar. 
n the Syrians . . ‘ . Nimrédh. 
” the Egyptians . . . Pharaoh. 
; Bamiyin =. 0... Shiri. Bamiyan. 
7 Egypt... we 43 . Alfaziz. 
" Kabul. . . .  . Kiabul-Shih. 
s Tirmidh . 3 . 3 .  . Tirmidh-Sbib, 
7 Khviirizm . : _ , Khwirizm-Shih. 
e Shirwin . . ; . Shirwin-Shih. 
4 Bukbfira . .  .  , Bukh&rai-Khudih. 
” Gizgintn .  . 0.) .S Ghzgiin-Khudah. 


Individual epithets (of princes) were not in use before the reign of 
Isliim, except among the Persians, 

Part L is divided into three parts :-— 

1. Péshdidhians, thoss who ruled over the whole world, founded cities, 
discovered mines and produced the metals, and found out the elements 
of handicrafts and arta; who practised justice on earth, and worshipped 
God as ie his dus. 

2. Kings of Hlén, which means “ poople of the highlands.” They did 
not rule over the whols earth. The first who divided the empires of the 
world was Frédin tke Pure, for he divided them between his sons, as a 
poet, a descendant of the family of the hisris, says— 


“Then we have divided our empire in our time, 

Just as people divide meat on 2 meat-board. 

Syria and Greece es far 28 the setting-place of the sun 
We have given to a champion, to Salm. 

To £63 the Turks were given, and so a cousin 
Holds the country of the Turks. 

And to Erdn Al‘trak was given by dint of force. He has 
Obtained tho rule, and we have obtained the benefits thereof.” 


3. Kaydnians, the heross, In their days the rule sver the world 
became divided between the various nations. 

Between those parts (of ancient Persian chronology) there are gaps, 
on account of which the order and progress of chronology are much 
troubled and obscured. 

Here follow the kings of Part L, according to the opinion of the 
generality of the Persians, 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 11 


classes Tar Nauxs os ene Perey Kings 


Gaudmarth . 

; Ti tho birth of Masha and Méshana, who is 
called “ Mater fliorwia ce filiarum.” — 

| two are the Persian Adam and Eve . 

j Till MéshA and Meéshana marricd F ; 

, Till the birth of Héshang . . . 


10 


The first 
ned. 


Héshaug bon Afriwik hen Siydmak hen Mésbé | Péshdadh 40 | 253 


Talintirath ben Wijahau hon Inkahadh ben Hé- 
shang—till the coming-forward of Badasaf . 

Tho eamo—ofter that event . 

Jam ben Wijatin. From the tims when he 
erdered psople to fahricato weapone till the 
une pwpes be erdered them to spin and 


20 mI ‘the time when be erdored people to divida 
thomsslves into feur classes . 

Till the time whon he made war upon tho 
demons and snbdoed them =. 

M11 tho time wheu he urdered the demons to 
peek rocks ont of the mountains and to carry 
them . 

Till the tims when ho orered = wheelod- 
carriage to be constructed. It tas con- 
stracted, and he rade upon it . 

After that, people lived in health ond happiness 
—till the time when be hid himself . . 

Ho coatinned ta ho hidden—till he was scized 
hy AldaliMik, who tore nut his howels ond 
sawed him with a anw 

Algehhik hea ‘Olwia of the Amalekites or— 
with soother namo—Béynrosp hen Arwand- 
usp ben Zingds hen Bartshand hen Ghar, who 
was tho father of the pure Arabiaua, ben 
Afrdwik ben SiyAmak ben Mésba 

40 Afréddn ben Athfiyan Gan hen ‘Athfiyin Nigdo 

hen Athfiydn ben Shabrgie hen Athfiyau 
Akhbonhagin hen Athfydn Sipédhgio ber 
Athfiyin Dizsgio hen Athfiyin Nigdo ben 


30 


Tho Pashdfdians, the Just. 


= 4o| 9 
= 50 | 130 
= 93 | 218 
Bevawaud | 1] 254 
= 29 | 283 
shédh .| 60| 398 
es 50 | 38s 
= 50 | 48s 
— | 100] 533 | 
= 66 | 599 
— | s00 | soo! 
— | 100 | 999 


Azhdohak | 1000 | 1999 


Néfurdsh ben Jam the King . 7 - ‘Almanbadh} 200 | 2199 


fraj. He was killed by his brothers Salm and 
73}, who reigned after bim. They were af 
thres sons of Afrédiin 

Minéshjihr ben Gazan, the daughter of fraj— 
till the timo wben he killed Tdj and Salm, 
t.e. Sharm in Persian . 

TJ] the tima when the son of T8j occapied 
Erinehahr, and drove Miuésbjibr out of tho 


country 
FirdsiyéS hen Bashong ben Inst hen Rtsbman 
ben Tork hen Zshanaap Lay Arshasp ben T4j 
—till tbe time when Mintshjihr guincd tbs 
victory over bim and drove him away. There- 
npoo thay mado 4 treaty on the bani of - 
1-known arrovv.shet - 


people of 


on 
i) 
the 


The kings of flin 
the highlands. 


Almnatafi |’ 300 | 2299 
Fardz =. | 20 | 2619 


_ 60 | 2579 


— | x | 2691 


103. 
How | P 
mete [URE , 
Bpithets. |“han Sears | 
reizned. | 
Girebah . 30 80 


p-104. 


105. 


12 auBtroni. 


fhe Tae, 
olnaaea Tau Nausea oy ths Pasian Eros Their Naf of the 
of the : it : ;eachof of the j 
Eines, of Pant I Epithets ‘anne. Feara, | 
E H Mindebjihr—till bia death : ‘ ; | - | 28 ° 2619 
% a Téth the Tark oocnpying Alirak .' FirdsiyAb 12 2631 
Ix3 @ &, Zab han Tahméap bon Kamjabdbar ben Za hen) : : 
2 at Hiehab hen Widinak ben Disor hen Mi- | ° ! 
& ‘ _ néahjihr tagethor with— > Thetwo "2 5 oggg - 
FSI o 2, Marshdgp, i.e. Sim boa Narimin ban TebhmAep ( ‘companions. } 
o4.9° han Ashak hen Rem ben pasar ben Mi. 
G& ~)  nbehjihr : 
al : l 
Kavkobéch ban Zegh ban Nddhagé ben MAiehtt | 
hon Nddbar hen Mindabjihr . The Firat | 100 ! 2736 , 
Baikaas beu Kainiya bse Katkoha3h—til] be 3 : 
rebelled, wherenpan be was take prisoner | } 
by Shammar and afterwarde delivered by i ! 
a Bustam hen Daatin hen GarsbAsp the King. | Nimrad . 75 | 2811 
Tho eame—from the lattor event till hia death ad 95 | 2886 
8 Kaikhuerd ben Siyiwoeb hen Kaikéde—till the | ' 
«a time when ho wont away asa holy pilgrim ' 
3 and hid bimeelf Huméyin 60 | 2946 ! 
“ | Kailuhrisp bea Kaiwajl hen Kaimanish hen ' 
g Kaikabidh—til] be sont Bnkbtanasear to i 
j Jerusalom, wha deatroyed it . 7 . [TheRartrianj 60 | 3006 
ne The samo after that event . 60 | 3066 
3 Kaiwishtdap bon Luhriep—till He appearance 
7 of Zoroaster . Alberbadb | 30 | 3096 
# | The camoafter that event _ 90 | 3186 
B Kai Ardashtr-—Bahman hen lefandiyér hen’ |¢ Tallin } 112 | 298 
one { the hody. 
Khunidnt the danghter of Ardashtr—Babman . | Cihrizfd . 80 | 3328 
D4rd ben Ardashir—Behman . The great 12 | 8340 
Dard ben Dari—till he was Eilled by Alesnder 
tha Groak , s Tha aecond 4 | 3354 


The account of the chronology of this Part I., which we have given, 
is stated very differently in the Kitdd-alsiyar. Our account, however, 
comes nearest to that view regarding which people agree. The chro- 
nology of this same part, but in a different shape, I have also found in 
the hook of Hamza ben Albusain Alisfahini, which he calls * Chronology 
of great nations of the past and present.” He says that he has endesvoured 
to correct his account by means of the Abasté, which is the religious 
code {of the Zoroastrians). Therefore I have transferred it into this 
place of my book. 


10 


> 20 


30 


20 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS, 


TABLE II. ov PART I. 


| Nawes oy rus Psapiparan Eines, 
taken from the Abasti, heginning with 
Gayémarth. 
| Gayémarth the first man 
An interregnum of 170 years, 
Hishaug . : P 2 


Tabmirath . g Z 2 


Afvdin . : : . 
Minéshcihr . : : : 
Firkeyib . ' . 
An interregnum of unknown length. 
Zad . . : 

Garshisp together with ZAb 

An interregnum. 


Naves of 1Ha Kavaytan Exxes. 


Kaikohidh . 

Haikaits .. F ‘ F 
Kaikhusrau . : Z . 
Kailubrasp . 

Kaibishtasp . 

Kaiardashir . 

Cihbrazid 

DirA ben Babman . ; . 
Dara ben Dara : 


ao © 


How long 
each of 
them 
reigned. 


40 


iv) 
oO 


| 

| 
#4 

8 


113 


Bum of 


‘ p.106. 


p.107. 


nee cerns ee AR a 


p.108, 


p.109. 


p.110. 


114 atptroni. 
Farther, Hamea rolates that he has found also this part of Persian 


chronology in the copy of the Maubadh, such as is exhibited in the 
following table:— 


TABLE DIL. or PART 1. 


Naugs of tHe PésepAvutan Kixos, 
taken from the Copy of the Maubsdb. 


Gayémarth . ; 80 80 
Macha and Méshinf till they got children . 50 80 
Till their death F : 50 180 
Interregnum é . F : F 94 224 
Héshang. : : : : 40 264 
Tatmiroth . ‘ é 5 ‘ 30 294 
Jam—till he hia himself ‘ ; . , 616 910 
He remained hidden b ‘ , 5 100 1010 
Béwarasp : ‘ : . . | 1000 2010 
Frédin . 7 ‘ A : j 500 2516 
Minésheihr . : ¢ F 7 .|. 120 2630 
Zaiand Garshisp . ‘ ‘ é . 4 2634 
Nana ov tas Karinwy Kinee, 

Ksikohidh . . F r 7 ‘ 100 2784 
Kaikids - : a - : ‘ 150 2884 
Kaikhuerau : 60 2944. 
Luhrasp : : 120 3064 
Bishtis ; 120 $184 

112 3296 
CihrAzad : ‘ 3 . 7 30 8326 
Dara benBahman | A , ; ; 12 ! 93338 
Dard ben Dard. . : : | 14 : 8352 


‘| | | 


Im the biographical and historical books that have heen translated 
from the works of Western authors, you find au account of the kings of 
Persia and Babylonia, beginning with Frédin, whom they call, as people 
say, Yafal (Pal ?), and ending with Dara, the last of the Persian kings, 
Now, we find that these records differ greatly (from Eastern records) as 
to the number of the kings and their names, as to the dutations of their 
reigns, their history, and their description. I am inclined to think that 
they confounded the kings of Persia with their governors of Babylonia, 
and put both sideby side. Butif we altogether refrain from mention- 
ing those records, wo should deprive this book of something that forms 
a due part of it, and we should turn away the mind of ths reader there- 
from. We, now, exhibit this tradition in a special table of its own, in 


Ja 


20 


30 


40 


10 calene ben “Salmanagear, i ie in ” Poraian : Sant- 


20 


80 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 115 
order to prevent confusion getting into the arrangement of the various 


systems and traditione of thie book. Here it followe:— 


THe Krxes oF Perera, 
beginning with Frédin, according to 


Western onthors. 
Yat, ic. Frédin . 7 : : ‘ 
Tighlath Pilesar . 3 


sar, t.e. Salm 


Sardim (Bzarhaddon), ie. Zd ben Tamiep ‘ 
a him the following powerful kings 


gned :— 

Kaikobtdk ; . 

Sauherib IT. ‘ P . , 
Majam : 3 
Buhtanaggar, ¢ te. Kaikite | ; ‘ é 
Evilad hen Bukhtanaggar . F _ : 
Belteshaggar. hen Evilad. < . 7 
Dara Almiabt I., te. Darius . . . 4 
Koresh, ia. Kaikhusran . ‘ A ‘ 
Cyrue, te. Lubriep . : : 

dag ba ace. : ‘ é ‘ . 


Xerxes ben Dara, ie Khosrant. | 

Ardashir ben Keres, pasty waxpexeies ie. : Long'- 
manue. 

Khusrau I. . 

Sogdianue, Notos ben Khuaran 

Ardashir ben Dara IT. - 

Ardashfr IIT. : é 

Arses ben Ochus . 

Dara, tho last king of Persia 


+ 2 & © @ 


The Jews, Zoroastrians, Christians, and the various eects of them, 
relate the origines mundi and carry chronology down from them, having 
previously admitted the truth of such origines, and Laving gained certain 
viewe regarding them, on which people either agree or differ. He, how- 
ever, who denice euch origines, cannot adopt that which ie built upon 
them, except after producing various eorts of interpretations which he 
adds of his own. 

However, those origines mundi, te, Adam and Eve, have heen need as 
the epoch of anera. [And some pcople maintain thst dime consists of 
cycles, at the end of which all created beings perish, whilet they grow 
at their beginning ; that each anch cycle has a special Adam and Eve of 
ita own, and that the chronology of thie cysle depende upon them. 


8g * 


pli. 


p-112. 


p.118. 


hy 


116 aLBinont. 


Other people, again, maintain that in each cycle a special Adam and 
Eve oaist for eack country in particular, and that hence the differeuce of 
human structure, nature, and language is to be derived. 

Other people, besides, hold thie foolish persuasion, vis. that time hay 
no terminus a quo at all; they take eome dogmas from the founders of 
religions, in order to construct some system ‘by means of them. Many 
philosophere of this cless have built np such syeteme. You could 
hardly find a prettier tale of this kind than that one produced by Sa‘id 
hen Mubammad Aldhuhlt in his hook. For he saye: “ People lived in 
bitter anmity and strife with each other; the better among them were 
maltreated and oppressed by the worse. But then, at last, the just 
king, Péshdadh, transplanted them to a place, called Firdaus (Paradise), 
situated betwaen Adan and Serendib. It wasea place where aloe, cloves, and 
various eorta of perfumce were growing, and all kinds of delicioue things 
were to be found. There they await, till one day a demon (‘If-it) came 
tpou them, the king of the wicked, and began quarrelling with them. 
In the same place Péshdidh found a boy and gicl, the parents of whom 
were unknown. Theee he educated and called them Méshd and Méshdna, 
and made them marry each other. Thereupon they committed sin, and 
so he drove them out of that country.” The tale as it hae been related, 
is extremely long. He says that the interval between the time of their 
settlement in Paradise, the beginning of all chronology, and their 
meeting the demon was one year; till the time when Mésha and Méehiina 
wero found, two more years elapsed ; till their marriage, forty-one yeare ; 
till their death, thirty years; and till the death of Péebdadh, ninety-nine 
years elapsed. But then he ceases from going on with hie chronological 
account and doee not carry it on. 

Chronology of the Ashkanians.—As to Part II. of Porsian chro- 
nology from Alexander till the rise of Ardashir ben Bibak, it must be 
lmown that during this pertod the “ Petty Princes” exiated, i.e. those 
princes whom Alexander had installed as rulers over certain epecial dis- 
tricts, who were all totally independent of each other. To tho same 
period belonge the empire of the AshkAniane, who held ‘Irak and the 
country of Miah, ie. Aljibaél, under their away. They were the must 
valiant among the “ Petty Princes ;” still the othere did not obey them, 
but ouly honoured them for thie reason, that they descended from the 
royal Persian house. For the first prince of the Ashkanians was A shk 
ben Ashkan, called Afghtrshah ben Balach ben Shipir ben Ashkan ben 
y+S¥ uxt hen Siyéwush ben KaikAts. 

Most Persian chroniclera have connected the reign of Alexander 
immediately with that of the first Ashkinian prince, by which that 
period was most improperly cartailed. Others say that the Achkianiana 
came into power some tims after Alexander, whilst othera go on blunder- 
ing without any knowledge of the matter. 

Tekail relate in thie place euch of their traditione ae I have learned, 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGs. 117 


and shall endeavour, as much as is in my power, to amend that which is 
wrong, to refute that which js false, and to establish the truth, beginning 
with that which corresponds most nearly to the Table I. ef Part I., 1 also 
call it Table I. (of Part EH.) :— 


| TanLe op THE Naves oF THE ASHRAXIAN KIXGs, How tong 

corresponding to the Table I. of Part I. each Sum 

oftbem of the 

} — ‘ Their Surnames. reigned. Years. 
Alerander the Greek. ens . : ‘ 14 14 
30 | Ashk ben Asbkin . . | Khéshdih . : 13 27 
Ashk ben Ashk ben Ashk : Asbkan . E 25 52 
Shapir ben Ashk .. ., Zain. : 30 82 
Babrim ben Sbipér . .. Kharin ‘ 21 103 
Nasei ben Bahram. .. Gishwar . : 25 128 
Hurmuz ben Narsi . . ) Salar ‘ : 40 168 
Bahrim ben Hurmuz 4 Réshan . : 25 193 
Féréz ben Bahzam . Balad A F 17 210 
Kisra ben Féréz : ; H Baraidih . , 20 230 
Narsi ben Férdz ‘ ' Shikaxt F 80 260 
20 | Ardawain ben Narst . | he last 20880 


Next follows what RTT to the Table II. of the same Part I., p.l14. 
that which Hamza has taken from tbe Abasti. This, again, I call the 
Tabula IL, for the purpose of connecting those portions of the three 
parts of Persian chronology that bear the same name (as Table I., IZ, 

IIL. of Parta I., I, 101.) with each other, aud to bring the tables, 
thereby, into a good carder. It will not be necessary to mention this 
another time :— 


TABLE I. or PART I. rm tHe AREANGEMENT OF THE TABLES. 


N Asnonknun K bag long | Sus 
JANES OF THE ASHOR $3 each i 
80 according to Hamza. sae of them | of the 
reigned. ; ae 
Se ee | 
Alexander the Greek 14 14 
Ashk ben Balash ben Shapir ben Ashkin bea Ach 
the hero : : 6&2. 66 
Shépir ben Ashk . . 2 .- 2 90 
Jidbar ben Wijan ben Shapar 7 50 | 140 
Wijan ben Balash ben Shapdr, the nephew of the | : 
preceding . : -; 21 | 161 : 
40 | Jadhar ben Wijan ben Balash * -f 19. 180 
Narsa ben Wijan ; 30 | 210 
Hurtiwatn ben Belich, the unde of the proceding - 19 | 227 | 
Férézéin ben Burmuzin 12 239 
Ehbusrau ben Férézin : : : . 40° 279 


Balish ben Férdzin i : ae : 
Ardawan ben Balash ben Férdein - ‘ 1 88 358 


118 ALpfrint, 


To this I add that which in the order of ths tables is ths third ono, 
which Hamza saye hs has taken from ths copy of ths Mauhadh, in order 
that the snbject may be carried on, as it has heen dons in ths two pre- 
csding tables. Hore follows ths Table II. of Part IT. :— 


TABLE iL oy PART I. 


p.1165, 


Nawes or tHe Aspkinian Kios, each 
taken by Hamza from the Copy of the Moubadh. 


Alexander the Greek 
After him reigned a claes of Greek _princes, with 
their Persian vizirs, altogether ]4in number . 68 82 
Ashk ben Dara ben Dard P= Dara ; 10 92 
Ashk hen Ashkan , a . 20 112 
Shapar ben Ashkan 3 ‘ 60 172 
Babrim ben Shiptr ° z : Il 183 
Balash hen Sha Or i ’ é li 194 
Hurmuz hen Ealish : ‘ i 40 234, 
Féréz hen Hurmuz . 3 : 5 17 251 
Balish ben Féréz . ‘ é . F 12 263 
ar Khusrau ben Malidhin ‘ 40 803 
Balashan . ‘ 24 827 
Ardawin ben Balishin . 13 840 
ArdawAén the Great, ben Ashkénan 23 363 
Khusrau ben Ashkanin ss. . 15 878 
Bahifirid ben Ashkanan . - 15 893 
Jadhar ben Ashkanin 22 415 
| Balash ben Ashkindn : 80 | 445 
Naxei ben Ashka@nan 3 20 465 
Ardawan, the last 3 


116. Next I shall produce what I found in the chronicle of ’Abi-alfaraj 
Tbrabim ben "Ahmad ben Khelaf Alzanjani the mathematician. This 
man, ou having taken pains to compare the discordant twaditions with 
each other, gives the following account of the “ Petty Princes,” and the 
durations of their reigns, as is exhibited in the following tables. He 
maintains that the Persians fixed only the historical tradition regarding 
the Asbkanian princes, not regarding the other “ Petty Princes,’ aud 
that ths Asbkdnians first brought ‘Irak and Jibal under their sway Anno 
Alezandri 246. 


10 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 119 


‘How long | 


din; ue davai ar f AbtLalf We: “th nae of th : 
acco: te the ‘ouicle o! ‘araj. Pi hem j ' 
B i aS - reigned. - Years. 
i 
Alexander the Greek > ou | uw | 
The * Petty Princes” . : Fi . 246 ! 260 
ie tg Afghirshah . A ‘ : 4 10 j; 270 
Shik fir ben Ashkéin : p ., 60 | 330 
Jidhar, Senior . : : : .1 10 | 340 
an ._10 | Bizan the Ashkanian 3 ¥ i 2) 21 361 
fanes |Sudbarthe Ashkinisn - . . <7 19 | 380 
Narsi ths Ashkanian : , ‘ | 40 | 420 © 
Humu : ‘ . | ws: 47: ~«! 
Ardawin é $ : - 12 | «6449 
Khusrau. : . : ‘ -1 40)! 489 
Balish . ‘ . ‘ ; . 1 Of 613 
Ardawan, Junior 3 . , ‘ 


We have also found a chronological synopsis of this same Part IL. in 
the Shihnéme by ’Abd-Mangdr ‘Abd-alrazzik, such as we exhibit in the 
20 following table :-— 


p-117. 
| How long! Sum 
Lory eer 
in 
Mae or ° ; reigaed. Years. 
i 
i 1 
Ashk ben Dara, pas to Sl a eee | | | 
of Arish . ; Bb , B ! 
Ashk ben Ashk ; F 7 : -? 25 | 38 
Shapir ben Ashk . j ‘ ; .: 80 | 68 
Bahram ben Shipir * 2 . .? $1. 119 
80 | Narsi ben Babram ' : . . 2! 2500 ' Addy 
Hurmuz ben Narsi . 5 - : Fi 40 184 | 
Bahrim ben Hurmuz : . , ai 5 189 
Hurmuz ss. a ‘ ‘ i ait 7 196 
Féréz ben Hurmuz . F : ‘ 20 216— 
Narsi ben Féréz . : . -+ 80, 246 | 


Ardawin F ‘ : : Z 20 : 266 | 


The nature of this Part II. is brought to light by a comparative 
examination of thesa tables. It is a period that hegins with Alexander's 
conquest of Persia, and ends with the rising of Ardashir bon Babak 

40 and his seizing the empirs out of the hands of the Ashkanians. Both 
these mits are well known, and generally agreed upon. How, then, 


118. 


120 AtBinoai. 


can the interval between them be a matter of doubt tous? However, 
it must be kept in mind that we aro uot able to make out by a mere 
course of reasening the duration of the rule of eac:. of the Ashkanian 
prinees, nor of the other “ Petly Princes,’ nar the number of the persons 
who occupied tha throne. For all this depends upon historical tr dition, 
ank it is woll.knewn to what mishap tradition kes been subject. The 
least, now, we must try to do is to amend this Part IT. as much as is in 
our power. 

It is evident and not unknown to anybody, that the year in which 
Yazdajird came to the throne was A. Alex. 948. This undeniable date 
we sholl keep in mind as a basis, and establish it as a gauge by which 
to measure all their records. 

Let us first take the sum of years which we get from the Table I. of 
Part 11, tec. 280 yeare. Hereto we add that sum which we shall 
exhibit in the Table I. of Part TIT. for the time from the beginning of 
the reign of Ardushir till that of the reign of Yazdajird, i: order to 
combine the like tables (te. Table I, IL, II. of Part I. respectively, 
with Table 1, I., LI. of Part II.) with each other. This latter period 
is ahout 410 years. So we get a sum of 


690 years, 


which ia leas than ovr gauge by about 258 years. We shall drop this 
calculation aud not take further notice of it. 

Wext we censider the sum of years contained in the Tuble IZ. of 
Port I1., i.e. 858 years. Hereto we add the sum which will he exhibited 
by Table 11. of Part If., corresponding to the sum that occors in the 
firet calculation, and we get the sum total of 


818 years, 
which is again less than our gauge by about 125 years, 
We shall drep this calculation, too, and proceed to the Tables TH. in 


Parts I. and TIl., and add them together in the same way as we hava 
done with Table I. and IZ. Then we get the sum of 

980 yeare, 
which is again below our gauge by about thirteen years. 

We drop this calculation, sud do net further notice it. For chronology 
does not admit of this difference, although it may be so slight as nearly 
to approach the truth. 

If we maka the same calculation with the years exhibited in the book 
of ’Abf-alfaraj, combining the corresponding tables with each other, we 
get the sum of 

949 yoers, . 


which oxeceds our gaugo by six years. 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 12] 


If we pase by this and add together the years as reported in the 
Shihnfima for this Part II., with the result of any of the tables of 
Part TIL, thie calculation would etill less agree with our gauge (than the 
preceding ones). 

Now we shall put aside all these calculations, and try to derive an 
emendation of them from the book of Mani, called Sidbiéirkén, since, of 
all Persian books, it is one that may be relied upon (as a witness) forthe 
time immediately following the rise of Ardashir (ben Biibak). Besides, 
Mani in bis law has forbidden telling lies, and he had no need what. 
eoever for falsifying history. 

Mani, now, saya in this book m the chapter of the coming of the 
prophet, that he was born in Babylonia Anzo Astronomorum Babylonia 
527, ie. Anno Alex. 527, and four years after the beginning of the 
reign of the king Adharbin, whom I believe to be Ardawan the Last. 
In the same chapter he says that he first received divins revelation when 
he was thirteen years of age, or Anno Astronomorum Babylonie 539, two 
years after the beginning of the reign of Ardashir the king of kings. 

Hereby Mani states that the interval between Alexander and Ardashir 
is 537 yeare, end that the interval between Ardashir and the succession 
of Yazdajird is 406 years. And this result ia correct, being based upon 
the testimony of a book, favoured by God with a long duration, which 
in used as o religious code. 

Further, we are informed hy traditions, the correctnesa of which ia 
proved by their mutua] agreement, that the last intercalation wae carricd 
out at the time of Yazdajird ben ShApar, and that the Epagomens were 
put at the end of that month, to which the turn of intercalation had 
come, vis. the eighth month (Abin-Mih). If, now, we count the interval 
between Alexander and Ardashir aa 537 years, we find the interval 
between Zoroaster end Yazdajird ben Shipdr to be nearly 970 years, in 
which eight leap months are due, since it was their custom to inter- 
calate one month in every 120 years. But if we count that interval 
(between Alexander and Ardashir) aa 260-270 years,or something more, 
a8 800 yeara, as most authore do, we get a sum of about 600 years, in 
which only five leap months would be dus, whilst we have already men- 
tioned their report stating that eight leap months are due in that 
period. The latter ie therefore an irreconcileable supposition (vis. that 
the interval between Alexander and Ardashir is not more than 260-300 
yeara). 

Likewise it is written in the books of astrologers, that tho horoscope 
of the year in which Ardashir (ben Bfibak) rose was about half of 
Gemini, and the horoscope of the year in which Yazdajird rose waa the 
sixth degree of Caucer. If, now, we multiply 98} degrees, which ia the 
surplus of the solar cycle over the whole days according to the Persians, 
by 407 yeara, wo get the sum of ]523 degrecs. If we subtract this from 
the rising-place of the degree of ths horoscope of that year, in which 
Yazdajird came to the throne, and take the aro of the remainder for the 


p.119. 


120. 


1292 aLeintxt. 


rising-place of the region of ‘Irik, which was the residence of the 
Kisris, the horoscops is half of Gemini close to the place, which the 
astrologers mention. If the years, however, are either more or less, the 
horoscope does not agree (with what it is reported to have been). So, of 
course, that which is confirmed by two witnesses is more trustworthy 
than that which is contradicted by many. 

If we add to the 407 years, mentioned hy the astrologers, the 587 
years which are reported by the Shibirkin, we get the sum of 944 
years. And that is the year of the Mra Alexandri for Yazdajird’s 
eecession to the throne. The surplus of one year is only possible in the 
reports of such authors as do not give detailed statements regarding the 
months and minor fractions of time, in consequence of the fact that 
the years of the Persians and Greeks commence at different times. 

Hamza relates that Masi ben ‘Isi Alkisrawi, on having studied this 
subject, and perceived the confusion we have mentioned, said: “The 
interval between Alexander and Yazdajird’s accession to the throne is 
942 years, If we subtract therefrom 266 years for the period of the 
reign of the Ashkiinians, we get for the rule of the Sasanians, from 
Ardashir till the accession of Yazdajird, 676 years, In their own 
traditions the Persians have no such chronological system.” 

Further, he saya: “Thereupon we studied and examined the number 
of their kings. And here be it noticed that they have forgotten the 
names of some of them, whom the chroniclers have not mentioned, 
blending together some of their names on account of their similarity. 
I shall enumerate them as they really are.” Accordingly, ha, te. Misa, 
has increased the durations of their reigns and their number, as we 
shall explain, when the order of our exposition comes to that subject, if 
God permits. 

Chronology of the Sasanians,—Now we proceed to treat of the 
third part of Persian chronology, the beginning of which is the rising 
of Ardashir ben Babak of the family of Bahman hen Isfandiyér. For 
he was the son of Bahek Shih hen Sisin ben Babak ben Sisin ben 
Bahafirid ben Mihmnish ben Sisin senior hen Bahman ben Isfandiyir. 
This part of chronology algo is not free from the same defects that beset 
the former two parts, but still they are less considerable. I commencs 
this part with the Table I., corresponding to the (first) tables of each of 
the two preceding parts, and I shall proceed hereafter with Table TZ. 
and TIT. If you gather the dates from tho single tables of the three 


parts, you get the consecutive courae of Persian chronology. Here 
follows Tahle T. 


10 


20 


30 


Nawzs oF 


Ardaabir ben Babak . 


Saapir ben Ardashtr . 
Harmuz bea Shapdr 


Sicixzay Enero, 
to Tables 1s in Parts 1. and I. 


Babrim ben Hurmaz, who kilied Méct 


Bahram ben Bahram . 


Babrdm ben Bahrim ben Babrava 
Narai ban Bahram ben Babrim 


Bormaz ben Narst 


Sh&phr ben Hnrainz Dhd-al'at ~~ 


. Ardashir bea Harmaz 
Sbapdr ban Shaptr 
Behram ben Sbipir . 
Yazdagird bea Shipir 
Bahram hon Yazdagird 
Yazdagird bon Bohrim 
Fréddn hen Yasdagird 


Baldeh bea Fardz i 


Eobdd ben Féerdz 


Jamaep ban Fardz, the brother of tho precoding 
Kobdd ben Férdz, tho second time. 
Kisrd Andabirwin—till the birth of tho Prophot 


The same aftorwarde . 


Huarmuz bou Kisri—till ho wae deposod and “atranglod 
Kieri—till be carried tho wood of tho Cross away from Aolia 


The aame afterwarde—till the Flight of thu Prophet 


Ths same afterworda—till he wae doposed, blinded, and killed 
Kob&d hen Eigri—till ho perishod io tho plaguo —- 
. Arvdashte ben Shirawaibi, 7 yoars old 
Shabrbariz, whom Kiri had aent out to besiege Conatantioople 
Pdran, daughter of Kierd Parwtz. 
dangbtor of the Casar 
neh bon Kobid hen Hormnz beo Kisrl Parwts 


H Azarmidukht, davghtor of Parwtz, till ebo was poisaaod 
Warrakbzia Kboeraa, 9 child. 
Yaadagird ben Shahryir bon Kisrd Parwtz, 15 years old 


After him the cule of the Arabians oommenced. 


Her mothor woe Mary, a 


. 


. 


ee ee ee ee 


Their Surnames. 
B&bakAa 5 . 
Firditb . < 
The Hero . 
Yazdajao . 
Sh&bidib . 
Sakénsbah . . 
NakbéirkAa . + 
Kébpad. . 
Héba-sunbi . 7 
Tho Beaatiful F 
Saibdr-aljundd =. 

dnehah . z 
Scoloratas ‘ 
Gér é ‘ 
Shibddst . - 
Marddna : ‘ 
Karmin-mina : 
Nikrdt. 
Nikardw 7 
Ziadik 


«: Tho Seat King 


Torkzid. 
Parwiz tho Glorious King 


” 


» 
Shirawaibi 


Tho Little Ono 


Kharramdn 


Fortunsta . 
The Short Ono 
Khéshdid 


> * Tho Just 
>| Tho Last King 


-_ 


COCCCOWONOHOOMOROWOOS 
ww 
AawwYwwomaw AS 


Cd 
= 


coo C OOO MOOS OCOOOONS 
ORME AONSOHYMNNWNKNWOS 


_ 


waooe 


_ 


re 
“SONI dO SNDIMM UN¥Y ‘SHLVU ‘SvaE 


_ 
Ongena wo 


OMOmon wOamom os 


-_ 


Soooon 
coo8ee a2oo 


124 aLafront. 


p.128. The following Table II. rests on the authority of Hamza, who says 
that he has amended it by means of the Abaaté, and transcribed it from 
the Hitdd-alsiyar-Alkabiv. 


TARLE II. or PART Hi. 


: How long each of them i Sum of the ¥ 
1 Nauea op THE 8384mran Pgeet | 
UB. 


Year. |atonaa! Daya. | Yeara. atontno| Days. 


Ardashir Babak 


. , 6 | 0: 14 6: 0 
Shapir ben Ardashir i 0 ; 28 | 4 6 . 28 
Hourmuvz ben Shiptr 1: 10° 0 46 4 | 28 
Babrim ben Hummuz 8i s{ 3s] 49 8. 1 
. Babrim ben Babrim 7:6 (0 | 0 66 8, 1 
Bahram Heo telehe ben \ i F 
Bahra -f of 4 0 67 0; 1 
Narai be Behram 9' 0 o | 76 0:1 
: Hurmuz ben Narei ‘ 7) 65 0 88 a | 
' Shapir ben Hurmuz . ! 
Dho-al’aktéf 2: «(O0 0 | 155 5 | 1 
10, Ardashir ben Hurmus| 4 0 0 | 159 5 { 1 
Shaptr ben Shapir 50 4 0 | 209 97; #1 
Bahram ben Shapir 11, «0 0 | 220 9: 1] 
Yazdagird ben a : | 
Sceleratus. ai 5 | 8 jae | 21 9 | 
Bahram ben Yazdagird, ! 
Gir . 23 | #0 0 j 265 2 | 9 | 
p-124. 115. Yazdagird ben Babram | 18 3 4 28 | 288 74 2 
Feréz ben Yardagird .] 27! 0 | 2 |s10) 7 | 8 | 
Balash ben Féréz . a 4: 0 0 | 314 7 8 1 
Kobfd ben Feréz_. 43 1 0 0 (357 | 7: 8 | 
Anéshirwin ben Kobad.| 47 1 7 | 0 | 405 | 2° 8 | 
20. Hurmuz ben Anéshir- | | f ; 
wan. lls, 7? | 10 | 416 | 9 : 18 | 
Parwiz ben Hurmuz .| 88 ‘ 0 0 | 454 9/18! 
Shirawaihi ben Parwiz .| 0 ° 8 ; O | 455 5 j 1s | 
Ardashir ben Shirawaihi| 1 ; 6 | © | 456 { 12 ; 18 | 
Parindukht, daughter of io ae bee: 
Parwiz 1 4; 0)48 ; 3 ; 18 
5. Guskanaa: tadha . eo: 2 | 0 | 458 53 18 
Azarmidukht, daughter : H 
of Parwiz . 1] 4[ 0 | 489 9 ' 1 
Khuread Khuara . Oo; i 0 1459 , 10 | 13 
Yazdagird ben Shabryér | 20 | 0 | 0 |479 | 10 | 18 | 
i t 


id 
—) 


ix] 
c—) 


10 


20 


30 ! 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 125 


The following Table It. in this Part is that one which Hamsa says he 


transcribed from the copy of the Maubadh. 


| "How Tong each of them ; 


! Naas o7 toe SAeintan Kives, ! 
such aa Hamzacavahoehaa + Sieh lai 
| _ taken from tha Copy of — 
the Maubadh. Years: “Santho, i Daya. 


Ardashir b. Babak (after | | 
having made war upon | j 
3 ( 


the “ Petty Princes”) . 1 14 10 0 
Shapir ben YArdashir ., 30 CG 15 
Hurmuz ben Shipir .= 3 3 0 
Bahrim ben Hurmuz .; 17 0: 0 

5. Bahram Sakin-shah .: 40 4 4 0 
Narsa ben Bahrim : 9 0: oO 
Hurmuz ben Narsa ? 0, 90 
Shiptr Dhi-al’aktaf . 72 0° «60 
Ardashir ben Hurmuz . 4 0 0 

0. Shapér ben Shipir 5 0 0 

{ Bahram ben Sbaptr . 0 0 

| Yazdagird Sceleratue . 21 5 18 

; Babrim Gér . 19 11 0 

Yazdagird hen Bahrim. 14 4 18 

'15. Féréz ben Yazdagird. 17 ; 0 0 

| BalichbenFeréz. . 4. 0° 0O 

- Kobad ben Feérdéz - . 41 06 0 
Anéshirwin . . 4; 9. 90 
iver benAnéshirwin 12 ; oO, 0 

i20. Parwt: - 88 1 0 j 2° 
Kobad Shirawaihi . ae: 0} 8 0 
Ardashir ben Shirawaihi 1; 6i 90 
Paran,daughterof Parwiz 1; 4 ; O 
;Féeréz . : 0; #1 ; 9° 
25. Azarmidukht 3 0. 6; 0 
* Khurradfidh Khusra 1' 0 | o 
Yazdagird ben Shabryér 20 | O #9 


Sam of the Years. 


i . 
Yeera. Monthe. Daye. 


4 10: O 

44 - 10 ; 15 

48 1°45 

65 1° 15 
105 5: 15 5 
14; 5 ' 15 
i, 5 i 15 
193 ; 5 : 15 
197 | 5: 15 
goe2 | 5 . 15 
213: § - 15 
934 ; 11 3 
254 10. 38 
269: 2 ' al 
o96 : 2 | QI 
290} 2° 21 j 
831 2: 21 
379 2; 21: 
3912 on | 
429 2: 21: 
429‘ 10 | 21 | 
7 ae 
432 | 8 | 21 
432 9 | 21 | 
a3 | 3 | a1 | 
434 } 3 ! 21 

a 
| 


p.125. 


p-126. 


p.127. 


p.128, 


126 atstroyt. 


In the book of ’Abi-alfaraj Alzanjini we bave found the chronology 
of this Part differing from our accounts in the preceding three tables ; 
we have added his account in this place, in conformity with what we 
have done in the preceding two Parts. And herowith the Chronological 
Table ends. 


I 
Hew long each of them 


reigned. Bam of tho Years. 


Naya or rye Sieinwn Eixce, 
aocording to the Tradition of 
*Abt- sa Alzanjani. I 


se. 
Yeara. Mouths.! Days. Yaora. I fonthe. Daya. 
I 


— ee | ———_—__ 
e 


Ardashir ben Bibak .} 14 10 | 14 


0: 0 1 10 0 
ShApir ben Ardasbir .} 381 6, 18 46 | 4 18 
Hurmuz ben Shipir . 1, 6: 90 47 | 10 18 
Paka ben Hurmuz . 8; 8 8 61; #1 21 
&. Bahrim ben Bahrim 17 0 0 68 ! 1 21 
Babram ben Bahrim ben : 

Bahrim 4 4 o 7! 5 | a 
Narsi ben Bahram. -| 9 oO oO 81} 8] 21 
Hurmuz ben Naret , 9 0 0 99, 5 | Qt 
Shapir ben Hurmuz | i 

Dhial’aktaf 1 72 0 Oo 162 5 21 

10. Ardashir ben Hurmuz 4 0 0 16; 5: 2, 
Sbapir ben Shi - 5 4 Oo 171 9: 21 | 
Bahram ben Shap 11 0 0 ' 182 9 | 21 | 
Yazdagird Admin -| 21. 8 18 ° 204 8 9 | 
Babrim Gir. | 18 ol 8 . 228 | 2 | 12 

15, Yazdagird ben Babrim 18 4 18 ° 241 7 0 | 
Hurmuz 7  0- 0 1a { 7 | O | 
Féréz ben Yardagira ~ | 2? 9 0 | 275 7° Of 
Balish ben Feréz2. .! 4 0 0 279 7 1 0 
Kobid and Tamasp, sona i | 

of Férdz 43 0 0 822 ? 0 

20. Anésbirwin ben Kobad 47 7 5 $70 2 5 
Hurmuz ben Anéshirwin ; 11 7 15 381 9 20 
Parwiz ben Hurmuz 88 0 Oo 419 9 20 
Shirawaihi hen Parwtz . 0 7 0 420 4 20 
Ardashir ben Shirawaibi 0 5 0 420 9 20 

25. Khihan, who besieged : 

the Greeka 0. 0 22 «420 10 } 12 
Kisri ben Kobad . 0° 38: O 421 1: 12 
Santana ofParwiz) 1. 6 0 422 7 | 12 
Gushana 0 2 0 422 9 12 
Azarmidukht, daughter | . ; 

of Parwiz . P | O° 4 0 423 1 12 

0. Farrukhzid Khusran.| 0 1, 0 493 | 2 | 12 
Yazdagird ben Shahryar 20 o-. 0 2 Ta 


10 


20 


80 


BRAS, DATES, AND REIGNS GF KINGS. 127 


Next we return to fulfil our promise of explaining the way in which p.129. 
Alkisrawi works out the chronology of this Part IIL, having perecived 
the confusion of the fermer two parts, although we cannot help wonder- 
ing very muchathim and at his methed, For, whilst trying and experi- 
menting, he has subtracted from the period between Alexander and 
Yazdagird 266 years for the period of the Ashghinian rule. Hamza, 
however, records only that tradition, which he says he has taken from 
and amended by meana of the Abasfd, and the other tradition which he 
says he has taken from the copy of the Maubadh. And according to 

10 hoth these traditions, this period is longer even than 850 years (Hamza- 
Abastii, 358 years; Homza-Moubadh, 496 years). Now it is necessary 
for us to use either of these two traditions, or to add to them that one 
which Alkisrawi holds to be correct (as 2 third tradition), in order not 
to uso any other tradition but those which he himself mentions. Or did 
he possibly placo his confidence in th.t one which we have mentioned, 
and derived from the Shabniima (266 years) ? 

Further, now,as Alkisrawi has done this, and thinks that the existence 
of such confusion is an established fact, I should like to know why he 
refers it to the period of the Siisiinian, net to that of the Ashghainian 

20 rule. For there was much more opportunity for mistakes creeping nto 
the chronology of the Ashghanians (than into that of the Sasinians), 
because during their period the Persian empire was disorganized, every- 
one minded only his own affairs, and people were prevented by various 
circumstances from preserving their chronology. Such were, e.g. the 
calamities which Alexander and his Greek lieutenants brought upen 
them, further the confiagration of all the litcrature in whieh people 
delighted, the ruin of all fine arts which were the recreation and the 
desire of the people. And more than that. He (Alexander) burned the 
greatest part of their religious code, he destroyed the wonderful archi- 

90 tecture] monuments, e.g. these in the mountains of Istakhr, new-a-days 
known as the Mosque of Solomon ben David, and delivered them up te 
the flames. People even say that eveu at the present time the traces of 
the fire are visible in some places. 

This ie the reason why they have neglected a certain space of time in 
the first part of the period, between Alesander and Ardashir, viz. when 
the Greeks reigned over them. And they did not begin to settle their 
chronology until their fright and terror had subsided in consequence of 
the establishment. of the Agshkanian rule over them, Therefore the 
period preceding this event was much more Hahle to confusion (than the 

40 later period of the Siisinians), because under the Siisiniane the empire 
was in geod order, ard the royal dignity was transmitted in their family 
in uninterrupted succession, whilst in the time of those (their predeces- 
sors) there was much confusien. ‘Ihis is proved by all tbe testimonies 
which we have produced in support of thie our view. 

Here follows the table containing the so-called emendation ef 
Alkizrawi. 


128 atateont, 
p.180. | 


aes bad bid Sitios Krnaa, ems eet of thet Som of the Years. 


i Aa MSO, 
égeomuan et ta the oe 
of Alki Yeara. 


| 


yl 
q 
il 
EB 
3 
F 
Ky 
3 


Ardashir ben Babek .| 19 


aiw| wm! o 
Sabir-aljunid =. 32 o| ss] 2: 0 
Hurmuz . Sibtr-aljuntd 1 0. Sd 0; 90 
Bahrim ben Hormus . 9 3 0 68 8. 90 
5. Bahrim ben Bahrim ./| 23 0 0 86 3 0 
Bahrém ben Bahrém ben P i 
Bahrim . -| 18 4 0 99 7 | 0: 
Narsa ben Babrim -j| 9 0 Oo | 108 7: 0: 
Hurmuz ben Narsa, -| ¥ 0 oO | 121 7 0% 
Pareto Dbi-al’aktif .| 72 0 0 | 198 7 Oo. 
0. Ardashir, brother of H ‘ : 
the preceding . 4 | 0 | o |197 7 | 0: 
Sh&pér ben Bhipar Dit. i | : 
alaktaf . 82 0 0 :2799 j 7 | O-: 
Bahram, son of the pre- ; ; | { ' 
2 j O|] 0 (81) 7; 0 | 
Seer ben Bahram, \ , 
Clemens, Princa of | j ; 
Sharwin . 82 | 0 0 | 378 7; 0 ; 
can) ben Yazde- i 
23 0 0 | 896 7 0 
15. Soir Gar, son of i 
the preceding 23 | 0 0 | 419 7 0 
Yazdagidh. Bahri Gar 1%; 5 QO | 487! 0 0 
Bahram ben Yazdagird.| 26 ; 1 0 , 48 1 0 
Férdz ben Bahram =. | 99 | 0 | 1 | 492 1/1 
Balash ben Féréz . . 8 0 0 | 495 1 1 
20. Kubid, brotherofBalish 68 | 0 0 | 563 1 | i 
p.181. | Andshirwin ben Kubid| 47 | 7 0 610 8 1 | 
Hurmuz benAnéshirwin| 23 ' 0 | 0 '693 | 8! 1 
Parwiz ben Hurmuz -| 88 : 0 oO | 671 8 1 
Shirawaihi ben Hurmuz 0; 8 0 ' 672 4 1 
25. Ardasbirben Sbirawaihi| 1] 0 0 i 673 4 1 
Shahrbariz 0 1 8 | 673 5 9 
Barin,daughter of Kiera 
Parwiz 1 | 0 O | 674 5 9 
Khushnushbanda (Gush- 
anasptadha, an 0 2 0 | 674 7 2 
Khusrau ben Knbad ben 
Hurmuz . 0; 10 QO | 675 P] 9 
30. Férdz, a descendant of 
Ardashir ben Babak. 0 2 0 | 675 7 9 
Ja daughter 
0 4 QO | 675 ll 9 
Fotulioti bonKbuwen | 
b. Parwis. Hismother | 
was Girawaihi, sister ‘ 
of Bahrim Shobin . 0 1 O | 676 0 9! 
34, Yazdegird ben Shahryac 20 0 OQ | 696 | 0 9 | 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF RINGS, 129 


On Titles in the Khalifate.—It is a theory of the astrologers that p.192, 


none of the khalifs of Islim and the other kings of ths Muslims reigns 
longer than twenty-four years. As to ths reign of Almuti that extended 
to nearly thirty years, they account for it in this way, saying that already 
at the end of tho reign of Almuttaki, and at the beginning of that of 
Almustakfi, the empire and the rule had heen transferred from the hands 
of the family of ‘Abbas into those of the family of Buwaihi (Biya, 
Béya), and that the authority which remained with the Banf-‘Abbis 
was only a juridical and religious, not a political and secular affair, in 
fact something like the dignity of the Résh-gdldthé with the Jews, who 
exercises a surt of religious authority without any actual rule and 
empire. Therefore the ‘Abbiside prince, who at present occupies the 
throne of the Kaildfa, is held by the astrologers to bs only the (spiri- 
tual) head of Islara, but not a king. 

Already in ancient times astrologers used to prophesy this state of 
affairs. Such a prophecy you find, eg. in the book of ’Ahmrd ben 
Altayyib Alsarakhsi, where be speaks of the conjunction of Saturu and 
Mars in the sign of Cancer. The same was distinctly declared hy the 
Hindu Kanaha, the astrologer of Alrashid, for he maintained that the 
reign of the Bant ‘Abbis would be transferred to a man who would coms 
from Ispahiin. He determined, also, the time when ‘Alt hen Buwaihi, 
called ‘Imfd-aldaula, should come forward in Ispahin (as a claimant to 
guprems powsr). 

Whsn the Bani-‘Abbas had decorated their assistants, friends and 
enemies indiscriminately, with vain titles, compounded with the word 
Daula (ic. empire, such as Helper of tho Empire, Sword of the Empire, 
etc.), their empire perished ; for in this they went beyond all reasonable 
limita. This went on so long till those who were especially attached to 
their court claimed something new as a distinction between themselves - 
and the others. Thereupon the khalifs bestowed double titles. But then 
also the others wanted the same titles,and knew how to carry their 
point by bribery. Now it became necessary a second time to create a 
distinction between this class and those who were directly attached te 
their court. So the khalifs bestowed triple titles, adding besides the 
title of Shihinshih. In tuis way the matter hecame utterly opposed to 
common sense, and clumsy to the highest degrce. so that he who men- 
tions them gets tired before he has scarcely commenced, that he who 
writes them loses his time and writing, and he who addresses them runs 
the risk of missing the time for prayer. 

It will net do any harm, if we mention here the titles which, up to 
our time, have been bestowed by their majesties the khalifs. We shall 
comprise them in the following table. 


133, 


180 ateirint. 

The Names of those on whom The Titles which were bestowed 

Titles ware bestowed. by Their Majesties the Khalifa. 
Alkdsim ben ‘Ubaid-allth. . . Waliyy-al-daula. 
His con. . ‘Amid-al-daule. 
*Abd-Muhommed hen i amdan . Nagir-al-daula. 
His son : 8a‘d-al-deula. 
"Abt-alhasan ‘Ali ben Homdin Saif-ai-daula. 
‘All: «n Buwoihi . 7 ‘Iméd-al-dauls. 
*Abt-albasan "Ahmad ben Buwaibi Mu‘izz-al-daula. 
Albssan ben Buwaihi . é Bukn-al-daule. 10 
‘Abd-Mangir Bakhtiyér hen Abt. "Tzz-al-daula. 
albacan, 

*Abd-Ishik ben Alhusain . ‘Umdat-al.daula, 
"Abd.Harb Alhabasht ben *AbI. Sanad-al-danvla. 

alhusain, 
"Abi-Manair Bisutin hen Washm- Zahiy-al-daula. 

gir. 
*Abi-Mangir Buwaihi ben Alhssan Mou’ayyid-al-daula. 
Almarznbiéin ben Bakhtiyfr . ‘T'séz-al-daula. 
Kébis ben Washmgir . F Shams-al-ma‘ilf, 20 
"Abd-’Ahmad Harith ben ‘Ahmad Waliyy~)-daula. 
*Abfi-Shuja! Fanakhusra ben Al- ‘Adud-al-daula wa TAj.al-milla. 

hasan. 
*Abi-Kalinjar ben Fandkhusra . Fakhr-aldaula wa Falak-al-’umma. 


*Abd-Kilinjar Marzubin ben 


Fandkbusra. 
*Abd-alfawaris ben Fanfikhuera . 
*Abi-Talib Rustam ben ‘Alf . F 
*Abi-alkaésim Mahintd ben Sabuk- 
. tagin. 
"Abi-Nasr Khurra Féréz 
Fenikhuere. 
"Abt-alhasan Muhammad ben 
‘Tbrahim, 
*Abt-al‘abhés Tash Alhajib . 5 
*Abdalhasan Fwik-alkhagga . 
"Abf-‘Ali Muhammad ben Muham.- 
ma2d ben *Ibrahim. 
Sabuktagin, first . 
Afterwards he received the title of 


ben 


- Mabmndd ben Sabuktagin 2. 


*Abd-alfewaris Bektizin Alhajib 

*Abi-alkdstm Muabammad ben 
‘Ibrahim. 

?Abi-Mansir Alp Arslin Albalawi 


Samgim-al-daula wa Shams.al- 
mills, 
Sharef-al-daula wa, Zaman-al-milla, 
Majd-al-milla wa kahf-al-’umma. 
Yamin-al-daula wa ’Am{n-al-milla, 
80 
Bahfé-al-daula wa Diy4-al-milla wa 
Ghiyath-al~umma. 
Nagir-al-daula. 


Husim-al-daula. 
‘Amid-al.daula. 
Nagir-al-daula. 


Mu‘tn-al-dauls. 
Nasir-al-din wal-daula. 
Saif-a}-daula. 
Sindn.al-daula. 
Nastr-al-daula. 


an 


Mu‘in-al-daula. 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 131 


Also the Wazirs ef the Khalifs have received certain titles, com- 
pounded with the word Di, ae eg. Dhi-al-yamivain, Dhi-al-ridsatain, 
Dhi-al-Rifdyatain, Dhit-al-saifain, Diti-al-kalamnia, ete, 

The Buwaihi family, when, as we have mcutioned, the power passed 
into their hands, imitated the cxample of the khalife; nay, they made 
it etill woree, and their title-giving was nothing but one great lie, when 
they called their Wazire, e.g. Kdfi-al-hufdt, Alsdfi Alaugad, ’Auhad- 
alkufit. 

Tho femily of Simin, the rulers of Khurisin, had ne desire for exch 
titles, contenting themselves with their krayas (such as “Abi-Nasr, ’Abii- 
abhasan, ’Abi.Sélib, ’Abs-al-kdsim, *Abji-al-kérith). In their lifetime 
they were called Alinalik, Almu’ayyad, Almuwaffak, Almansir, Almu‘ad- 
gam, Almuztasir, and after their death, Alkawid, Alshahid, Alsa‘id, 
Alsadid, Atradi, ele. Yo their ficld-marshals, however, thcy gave the 
titles of Nugir-aldaula, ‘Invid-eldaula, UWusim-aldaula, ‘Amid-alduule, 
Saif-aldaula, Sindn-aldaula, Mu‘in-aldaula, Ndsir-aldaula, in imitation of 
the ways of the khalifs. 

The eame was done hy Bughrikhin, when he had come forward (to 
claim supreme power) a.a. 382, calling himself ShiAdtb-aldanta, 

Some of them, however, have gone beyond this limit, calling them- 
selves "Amir-al-‘dlam and Sayyid-al-amard. May God inflict en. them 
igneminy in this werld, and show to them and to others their weakness ! 

As to the ’Amir, the glorious Prince, may God give a long duration 
to his reign ! (to whom this book is dedic.ted), His Majesty the Khalif 
addressed him in a letter, and offered to him titles, such us these com- 


pounded with the word Daula (e.g. Saif-al.daula, Husim-al-daula, etc.). ° 


But then he considered himself superior to them, and abhorred the idea 
of being compared with these who were called by such titles but only 
in avery metaphorical way. He, therefore, selected for himself a title 
the full meaning of which did not exercd his merits (Shans-el-ma‘dli, 
ie. Sun of the Heights). He has become—may God give a long 
duration to his power !~among the kings of the world like the sux, who 
illuminates the darlmess,in which they live, by the rays of his heights. 
He has coms into high favour with the khalifs as a prince ef the 
Believere. They wanted to redouble and to increase his title, but his 
noble mind declined it. May God give him a long life; may he enlighten 
all the parts ef the werld by his justicc, and bless them by his lock; may 
He raise his affairs and those of the subjects who dwell in his shadow 
to perfectien, increasing them everlastingly. God is almighty to do this, 
and sees and knows all the affairs of his elaves ! 

Intervals between the Eras.—After this digression we now return 
to the point whenea we started, and proceed, after having finished the 
collection of chronclogical dates in the preceding tables. Next we must 
turn eur attention towards fulfilling our promiee of teaching the reader 
that knowledge by means of which he may compute the eras that ars 


9 *¥ 


p-185. 


p-136. 


182 alBinoyt. 


used in the Canons, for astronomical observations, and elsewhere, e.g. in 
commercial stipulations and contracts. To this we shall prefix a twofold 
Tailesdn, which will indicate the intervals between the single oras in a 
constant measure, i.e. in days. In tho lower half under the diagonal, 
you find the distances computed in days and written in Indian ciphers. 
In the upper half you find two kinds of numbers; the upper ones are 
these identica] daye written according to the sexagesimal syatem, whilst 
the lower ones are the same days in thcir various degrees (units, tenths, 
hundreds, ei.) transerihed from the Indian ciphera into the HHunif- 
aljummal. 

The following well-known calculation is an example of this system of 
notation. If we take {[(16%)*]2}? or 166, and subtract 1 from the 
sum, we get the tota] sum of the reduplications of all the checks of the 
chessboard, if we commence with oze fer the first check. This sum, 
noted in Indian ciphers, is the following: 18,446,744,073,709,551,615 ; 
noted according to the scxagesimal system : 30. 80. 27. 9. 5. 8. 50. 40. 
81. 0, 15.; and transcribed into the Huritf-aljummal: 

NIT MTAYVATNING 
If you travacrite there characters one after the cther into Indian 
ciphers, you get the above-mentioned number, 

Now, in the same way ae this example, our Failastn is to be under- 
steod. This threefold system of notation we use for ne other purpose 
but this, that each mode should bear testimony to the other in case a 
doubt should arise regarding seme of the characters and figures that 
denote the numbers. 

We mention our method only in a summary way, and not at full 
length, because the reader of thia book must be more than a beginner in 
mathematics. We say, if a man wants to find an (unknown) era by the 
help of a known one, Ict him reduco the whole of the known era into 
days, and this sum ie called “ Phe Basis.” Then he must tke the 
interval between the two eras, viz. the known and the unknown onea. 
This we call ‘* The Equation.” 

Tf, then, the known era (i.e its epoch) precedes the unknown one, he 
subtracts the equation from the basis. If,on the other hand, the known 
era (i.e. ita epoch) follows the unknown one, he adds the equation to the 
basis. And the sum which he gets is the number of days of the 
uulmown era. 

Thereupon he must divide this sum of days by the number of days of 
that Kind of year which is ascribed to the er: in question. By this 
division he gets complete years. And the remainder of days is to he 
distributed ever the months of the year according to the preper lengths 
which we have mentioned as peculiar to each of the different kinds of 
them. 

Here are the days of the intervals between the epochs of the various 
eras represented in the twofold Tatlasiz, God is allwise! 


10 


20 


30 


TABLE sHOwMNc Tem INTREVALS BETWREN THe Brocns or THE Baas, caLcuULaTED in Days, 


p.187. 33.27.45. 6.38.46. 18, 615. 46.17. 6.56.1. 44.5. 
| Wager | le Lpaied | ligadly 
‘30.91 46, 2.95, 50. 19. 2/2. 50.18.2.|48. 5, 45.1. 
0.82.3,2. 15,51. 36. 1142.50.35. 1, 98, 6.2.1. 
, seus : eeu? eshy erpten 
bg, 19.2.9. 44,98 35, 1,/21.88 94. 1.12, 54. 0.1. 
| 1 Bers Poe | nea 


5.18. 33. 1. 10, 32.6. 1. 
zvtte® _vatd 


0. 53. 16.1. 5, 19. 50. 
ih Mijeo 


87. 25.1.1. 42. 44. 34, 
willy 1 aig 


18. 42. 27.; : 28, 0. 1. 
Boy (he 
dire” — 
55, 40. 26. | Sin Secon! 
years and 
}__Donths. 
with Greek | 96,055 


47.31.51. 23,47 3 
6} 


— = —]" 


(ao, 11. 49,| 28. 27. 15. 
VWyee 62 yep 


may ene 
19. 44, 83, | Diogletinas, 


roek 


Yhagle yeory aud 
jay ~.. |_ months, 
Zra Puge, 
ae 121,459 
PL agen ee 
8623 = 
nga. 221, a 


ip vera et ein 


Wenoye [Wee 
20. 38.29.1,15.18.13. 1. 
os SP ypekd 
0. 39. 46. |55. 18. 30. 
Lyfe dine 
39, 26. 45. | 34. 6. 29. 
Yet | ye 
5.20.16. | sagerts, 
ers : exes and 
gp 
antcaint, | 


m0 5900 
180,725 
246,780 ae a 


Gra Dilnvil, 


54, 7. 48. 4.188, 55,41. 4118.56,58.9. 


cstlays csiteee be ole ; ae 
41. 11, 44.;20. ae Pe seo. 
0.181. | 2 wich ee 154,760 0 | 98 | 
ee | apa : ~ 450101 | hate 
“Sa mas me ale 
“ysaso0 | 167940. s02;00 | 1,t8997 

a19.249 : 293563 | 318983 108.516 

ami | ase eam as 
re saat | tet : 503,425 | ares : 


444700 599,480 1,459,658 3 | 


“SOXTY JO SNDIZN UNV “SBLVG ‘SVUT 


S81 


138. 


184 ausiront. 


The Chess Problem.—For the solution of the chess problem (lit. for 
the reduplication of the chess and its calculation) there are two funda- 
menta} rules, The one of them is this :-— 

The square of the number of a check x of the 64 checks of the chess- 
hoard is equal to the numher of that check the distance of which from 
the check z is equal to the distance of the check z from the 1st check. 

For example: take the square of fhe number of the 5th check, ie, 
the square of 16 (16*)=256, which is the number helonging to the 9th 
check. Now, the distance of the 9th check from the 5th is equal to the 
distance of the 5th check from tho first one. 

The second rule is this:— 

The number of & check z minus 1 is equal to the sum total of the 
numbers of all the preceding checks. 

Example: The number of the 6th check is 82. And 32—1 is 81, 
which is equal to the sum of the numbers of all the preceding checks, 
i.e. of — 

14+24+4+8+ 16 (=3]). 


If we take the square of the square of the square of 16, multiplied by 
itself (i.e. {[(16*)*]*}* or 16!6), this is identical with taking thesquare of 
the number of the 83rd check, by which operation the number ofthe 65th 
check is to be found. Tf you diminish that number by 1, you get the 
sum of the numbers of all the checks of the chessboard. The number of 
the 38rd check is equal to the square of the number of the 17th check. 

The number of the 17th check is equal to the square of the number 
of the 9th check. 

The number of the 9th check is equal to the square of the number of 
the 5th check. And this (¢.e. the number of the 5th check) is the above- 
mentioned number 16. 

*Ab0-Raibin says in his Kitéb-cl’arkém (Book of the Ciphers): “I 
shall explain the mcthod of the calculation of the chess problem, that 
the reader may get accustomed to apply it. But first we must premise 
that you should Imow, that in a progression of powers of 2 the single 
numbers ars distant from each other according to a similar ratio. 
(Leeuna?) Tf the number cf the reduplications, te. the number of the 
single members of a progression is an even one, it has two middle 
numbers. But if the number of the reduplications is an odd one, the 
progression has only one middle number. 

The multiplication of tho two ends by each other is equal to the 
multiplication of the two middle uumhers. (Iu case there is only oe 
middle numher, its square is equal to the multiplication of the two end 
numbers.) This is ons thing you must know beforehand. The other is 
this :-— 

If we went to know the sum total of any progression of powers of 2, 
we take the double of the largest, ¢.e. the last number, and subtract 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIONS OF KINGS. 185 


therefrom the smallest, #.c. the first number. The remainder is the sum 
total of these reduplications (i.e. of this progression). 

Now, after having established this, if we add to the checks of the 
chessboard one check, a 65th one, then it is evident that the number 
which belongs to this 65th check, in consequence of the reduplications 
of powers of 2, beginning with 1, is equal to the sum of the numbers 
of all the checks of the chessboard minus the lst check, which is the 
number 1, the first member of the progression. If, therefore, 1 is 
subtracted from this sum, the remainder is the sum of the numbers of 
all the checks of the chessboard. 

If, now, we consider the 65th check and the lst as the two ends of a 
progression, their medium is the 33rd check, tie first medium. 

Between the checks 39 and 1, the check 17 is the medium, the second 
medium, 

Between the checks 17 and 1, the check 9 is the medium, the third 
medium. 

Between the checks Yand 1, the check 5 is the medium, the fourth 
medium. 

Between the checks 5 and 1, the check 3 is the medium, the fifth 
medium. 

Between the checks 3 and 1, the check 2 is the medium, the sixth 
medium, to which belongs the number 2. 

Taking the aquare of 2 (2°), we get a sum which is a product of the 
multiplication of the number of the 1st vheck by that of the 3rd check 
{1x 4=2%), The number of the Ist check is 1. This product, then, is 
the Afth medium, the number of the 3rd cheek, ive. 4, 

The square of 4 is 16, which is the fourth medium in the 5th check. 

The square of 16 is 256, which is the third medium in the 9th check. 

The square of 256 is 65,536, which is the second medium in the 17th 
check. 

The square of 65,536 is 4,294,967,296, which is the first medium in the 
83rd check. 

Tho square of 4,294,967,296 is 18,446,744,073, 709,55) 616, 

T£ we subtract from this sum 1, i.e. the number of the first check, the 
remainder is the sum of the numbers of all the checks of the chess. 
board. I mean that number which at the heginuing of this digression we 
have used as an example (of the threefold mode of numerai rotation). 

Tho immensity of this number cannot be fixed except by dividing it 
by 10,000. Thereby it is changed into Bidar (sums of 10,000 dirbama). 

The Bidar are divided by 8. Thereby they are changed into ’Aukdr 
(loads). 

The ’Aukdr are divided by 10,000. Thereby the mules, that carry 
them, are formed into Kuf‘dn (herds), each of them consisting of 10,000. 

Tho Kuf‘dn are divided by 1,000, that, asit were, they (the herds) might 
graze on the borders of Wedis, 1,000 kids on the border of each Wiiei. 


p.139. 


136 aLBirint. 


The Wédis are divided by 10,000, that, as it were, 10,000 moxztains 
should risa out of each Wadi. 

In this way, by dint of frequently dividing, you find the number of 
thoso mountains to be 2,805. But these are (numerical) notione that the 
garth does uot eontain. 


God is allwiso and almighty ! 


Rules for the Reduction of the different Eras.—Now we shall give 
a detailed exposition of the subject of this chapter (tc. the derivation 
of the eras one from ths other), which capnot be dispensed with. We 
must, however, postpons our exposition of the derivation of the Era 
Adami snd Aire Dituvii according to Jews and Christians, becausa they 
are connected with ths years and months of the Jews. And these are 
very intricate and obscure, and offer many difficulties for calculation,— 
® chspter, part of which we have already mentioned before. For which 
reason we must direct our attention exclusively to this subject, and 
explain it in a specia] chapter. And now we commence with the detailed 
exposition of the eras, pre-aupposing ths number of days which form 
the intervals between the epochs of the eras and that day which ie 
sought to be known. Thess daye we call Dies Parata. 

If wo want to find the re Diluvii, according to ’Abi-Ma‘shar, who 
uses it in his Canoa (or calendar), we divide its Dies Parate by 365, 
whereby we get complete years. If there is a remainder of days, we 
change them into Egyptian months. The Ist of Tét of this diva 
Diluvii always coincides with the 18th of Bahman-Miah in the non-inter- 
calnted za Yazdagirdi. 

If we want to find the 4a Nabonassari or the Aira Philippi, wo 
divide its Dies Parate by 365, whereby we get complete years. The 
remainder of days is distributed over the single months, to each month 
its proper portion. We hegin with Tot, the Ist of which always coin- 
cides with [the 1st of] Dai-Mah in the non-intercalated Mm Yaadagirdi. 

If we want to find the dra Alezandri, we divide its Dies Parate by 
8654 days, ie. we multiply the Dies Parate by 4, changing them into 
fourth-parts, and the sum total we divide by 1,461, i.e. by the days of the 
year reduced into fourta-parts. Thereby we get complete years. Tho 
remaining fourth-parts we raise again to whole days, dividing them 
by 4. Then we distribute them over the single months, to each month 
its proper portion, beginning with Tishrin I. If there is a rewainder of 
days that do not fill up one month, this remainder represents the date of 
that identical month. To the month Shubit we must give twenty-nine 
dsys ins leap year, snd twenty-eight days in a common year. 

The leap year is recognized in this way, that we consider the remainder 
which we get after dividing the fourth-parta (of the Dies Parata) by 4. 
If the remainder is 2, the currrent year is a leap year. If the remainder 
is less or more (¢.. 1, or 3, 4), the year is 4 eommon year. 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF KINGS. 137 


The reason of thie is, that intercalation preceded the epoch of this 
era by two years, eo that at the beginning of the era two fourth-parts of 
a day had already cummed up. If, therefore, at the end of the era there 
is a remainder of two fourth-parts, these, togethor with the two fourth. 
parte at the heginning of the era, make up ove completo day. In that 
case the year is a leap year. 

(In thie calculation the Syrian year and months are used.) 

If we, however, compute thie era according to the method of the 
Greeke, we eubtract 92 from the number of its Dies Parate, because 
the beginning of the Greek year differe from that of the Syrian year. 
The remainder we compute in the same way as wo have done according 
to the method of the Syrians. The remaining fourth-parts we raise to 
whole days, and distribute them over the single months, to each mouth 
ite proper portion, commencing with Januarius, ie. Kinin the Last. 

The leap year is ascertained in the same way that we have mentioned 
before. 

If we want to find the Ara Augusti, wo compute ite Dies Parate in 
the eame way ag we have done with the Ara Alexandri, so as to get 
complete years and a remainder of fourth-parts of nday. These latter 
we change into days, and distribute them over the single months, to 
each month ite proper portion, beginning with Tot. If the year isa 
leap year, we count the Epagomene, i.e. the small month, as six days, 
whilst in a common year we count it aa five days. 

The leap year is recognized by there being no remainder of fourth- 
parta of a day after we have converted them into whole daye. Of which 
the reason ie thie, that the leap year preceded the beginning of the era. 
On thie enbject (the Epagomence) there cannot he much uncertainty, eince 
they are placed at the end of the year, and the lat of Tot always 
coincides with the 29th of the Syrian month Abh. 

Of the Fra Antonini, we compute the complete years in the same 
way that we have explained for the ra Augusti. The remainder (of 
fourth-parts of a day) we divide by 4, and distribute the whole days 
over the single months, to each month its proper portion, begmning with 
Tét. Ina leap year we conut the Epagomens as eix days. 

The leap year is recognized by there heing one quarter of a day ae a 
remainder of the fourth.parte (of a. day). 

Of the Zra Diocletiani, we compute the Dies Parate in the same way 
as we have done with the Gra Augusti, etc., eo as to get complete years 
and to convert the fourth-parts again into complete days. Thereupon 
we distribute them over the single months, beginning with Januarius, 
te, Kinin the Last. In a leap year we give to Februarius, t.e, Shubiat, 
twenty-nine daye, in a common year twenty-eight daye. 

The leap year is recognized in the enme way as for the ra Alerandri, 
by there being two fourth-parts ac the remainder of the fourth-parte of 
a day. 


p-14). 


143, 


400 ALBIRUNIL 


Ax regards the crag of the Arabs and their months, how thcy inter- 
calated them, and in what order they arranged them in pagan times, 
this is o subject that has been utterly neglected. The Arabs were totally 
illiterate, and as the mcana for the perpetuation of their traditions they 
Telied solely upon memory and poetry. But afterwsrde, when the 
generation of thoge who practised these things had died out, there was 
no further mention of them, There is no possibility of finding out such 
matters, 

If we want to find the Era of the Hijra a8 used in Isliim, we divide ita 
Dies Parate hy the mean length of the lunar year, i.e. 8544+4 daya 
(35413 days), which ia effected hy multiplying the number of days by 
80, the amalleat common denominator for both fractions, fifth and sixth 
parts. The eum we divide by 10,68], which is the product of 354 multi- 
plied hy 30, plus 33=73 

The quotient represents complete lunar yeare, and the remainder con. 
sists of thirtieth-parte of a day. If we divide these by 30, wo getagain 
whole daye, which we distribute over the single monthe, giving to one 
month thirty days, to the other twenty-nine alternately, beginning with 
Almubarram. The remeinder of daye that does not make up one com- 
plete month, represents the date of that identical month. 

This is the methed for the computation of the eras used in the Canons. 
But if thero are still other methods which people adopt for thie pur- 
pose, they all go hack to one and the same principle. 

As for the calculation which is based upon the appearance of new 
moon, it must be remarked that two imperfect months (of twenty-nine 
dsyz) may follow cach other as wellas three perfect onea (of thirty days), 
that the lunar year may exveed the above-mentioned measure (of 3543} 
days), whilst it may not attain this length at other times, the reason of 
which ia the variation in the rotation of the moon. 

Of the Ara Yasdagirdi, we divide the Dies Parate hy 365, whereby 
we get complete years. The remainder we distribute over the single 
montha, to each month ite proper portion, beginning with Farwardin- 
Mah, In this way we come to know the era, the epoch of which is the 
heginning of his reign, that era which is used in the Canons. 

Tf we, however, want to find the Bra of the Zorcastriane, we euhtract 
twenty years from the Mra Yazdagirdi. The remainder is the Era of 
the Zoroastrians. For they date from the year in which Yazdagird waa 
killed and their national empire ceased to exist, not from the year in 
which he ascended the throne. 

The Era of Almu‘tadid-bildhk we compute in the same way as the 
4Era Alezandri. We give to each month ite proper portion, aa to the 
Persian monthe, heginning with Farwardin-Mab, and proceeding as far 
aa the heginning of Adhar-Mah. If, then, the year is a leap year, which 
is recognized in the same way as in the Aira Alexandri, by there being 
a remainder of tw> fourth-parta of a day, (we count the Andargdéhe or 


30 


10 


20 


80 


ERAS, DATES, AND REIGNS OF RINGS, 189 


Epagomenee between Ahin-Mah and Adharmah) as sis days, whilst ina 
common year we count them only as five days. New-Year (Naurdia) 
always coincides with the llth of Hazirin, for those reasons which wa 
have already mentioned by tha help and ths support of God! 

Now it would scem proper to add a chapter which is wan-ing in tha 
Canons, and bas not been treated by anybody except by ’ALi-al‘abhas 
Alfad] hen Hitim Alnairtzi, in his commentary on Almagest. And still 
it is a subject of frequent occurrence, and those who have to employ it 
may not always Imow what to do with it. The thing is this, that you 
may bs required to compute a dats fora certain time, the known parts 
of which ara various species that do not heloug to ons and the same 
genus. There is, eg. a day the date of which within a Greek, Arabic, 
or Persian month is known; but the name of this month is unknown, 
whilst you know the namo of another month that cosresponds with it. 
Further, you know an era, to which, however, these two months do ot 
helong, or such an era, of which the nama of the month in question is 
not known. Example :— 


(a) On the day Hurmuz 
(b) in the month Tammiz 
(c) im the year uf the Hijra 391. 


In this case the proper method is to computes the Avra Alexandri for 
the Ist of Muharram of a.x. 391. Thereby we learn with what month 
and day of the Arabian months the Ist of Tammiiz coincides. Further, 
we compute the ra Yazdagirdi for the 1st of Tammiz, whereby wa 
learn on what day of Tammiz the day Hurmuz falls, In this way tha 
three eras together with their species and genera are found out. 

If besides these elements the name of the week-day is known, this is 
an aid and a help for obtining © correct result. Example :— 


(2) On Friday 
(d) in the first third of Ramadan 
(c) in the year of Yazdagird 370. 


Here the right method would be first to compute the Arabic era for 
the Nauréz of this year of the Ara Yazdagirdi, and thereby to compute 
the firet third of Ramadén. Then we consider the week.days, to ind 
which of them are the heginnings of the months Thereby we find what 
we wanted to find. 

Likewise, if the week-day and its place within some month, together 
with some cra, are know., and if also the name of the month is known, 
you can find this out in the same way as we have mentioned. 

The student who thoroughly knows all these methods will be able to 
solve whatever question of this sort be put to him; he will find out 
everything, if he considers the subject as it ought to be considered. If 
those parts of such dates, the numerical values of which are known, 


p-143. 


140 aLsinoni. 


should be composed of diverse elements, so that their wits mean some. 
thing different from what the decades (tenths) mean,—e.g. you eay of a 
day: the 25th, referring the 5 to ® Persian month and the 20 to a 
Greek month, of which either one is known, or of which the two are 
unknown; or if you say; Anno 345, referring the 5 to a Greek, the 40 
to an Arabian, and the 800 to a Porsian era,—in euch cases tho clevor. 
neas of the student will manage to solve the problem, although tho 
caloulations necessary for such a derivation may be very long. 


God helps to find the truth! 


10 


20 


30 


141 


CHAPTER VII. 


ON THE CYCLES AND YEAR POINTs, ON THE MOLEDS OF THE vEaRS p.144. 


AND MONTHS, ON THEIR VARIOUS QUALITIES, AND ON THE LEAP 
MONTHS nOTH IN JEWISH AND OTHER YEARS. 


Havrno in the preceding pages explained tho derivation of tho eras from 
each other, with the exception of the 4ra Adami and ra Diluvit, 
according to the systems of Jews and Christians, we shall now have to 
explain the method by which we may obtain a knowledge of these two 
eras. To this wo shall prefix a treatise on the Jewish years and months, 
their cyclesand the Méléds of their years, followed by an investigation of 
the com1concements of the years of other nations. And hereto weshalladd 
such thingsas may provea ready help towards obtaining the object in view. 

Now we proceed to state that the Zra Adami is used by tho Jews, the 
Aira Diluvii by the Christians. If the lst of Tighrf coincided with the 
lat of Tishrin Primus, the Are Alezandri would ho equal to the Aa 
Mundi, plus 3448 years, which is, according to Jewish doctrine, the 
interval between Adam and Alexander. 

However, tha lst of Tishri always falls between the 27th of Abh and 
the 24th of Tit, on ax average. Therefore, the ra Alerandri, minus 
that time by which the beginning of the Jewish year precedcs the 
beginning of the Christian one, is equal to the complete Zra Adami, 
plus the interval between Adam and Alexander. 

The reason why the Ist of Tishrt always varics within those days 
(27th Abb—24th {24}), is this, that on an average the Jewish passover 
always varies between the 18th of the Syrian month Adhfr and the 
15th of Nisin, which is the time of the sun’smoving in the sign of Aries. 
For it is the opposition occurring Within this time, on which all those cir- 
cumstances depend which form the conditio sine qué non for passover. 

This, however, is only an approximate calculation. For if the solar 
year went on parallel with the days of the Greek year (lacuna? ?). 
But this is impossible, since we have found by astronomical observation 
that this fraction (beyond the 365 complete days of ths year) is 
bh. 46' 20" 56". Therefore ths sun, rotating at the rate of velocity 
found by astronomical observation, reaches any place whatever of the 


145. 


142 atstnoyi, 


ecliptio earlier than he would reach it by that rotation on which their 
method ia hased, in each 165 complete daye (sie 4 

We shall use, however, their own system, and shall now explain how 
we may find the beginning of thoir year, and how we may ascertain ita 
nature, whether it be ® common or a leap year, imperfect, intermediate, or 
perfect. Now, if we want to find this, ve add to the date af the ra Alex. 
andri, for the let of the Syrian Tiskrin Primua, 3,448 years, Thereby we 
get the corresponding date of the Hm Adami for the lat of (the Jewish) 
Tishri, that falls eitherin the end of Abh or in fal, hoth of which montha 
precede that Fishria Primus whence wo started in this calculation. 

If we, further, want to know whether the year of which we have 
found the beginning he a common year or & leap year, we subtract 2 
from the number of years, and divide the remainder hy 19; the quotient 
we get representa the number of complete Minor Cycles, The remainder 
we compare with Circle I. of the Assaying Circle. There wo find in 
Cirele IL., opposite to the year of the cycle, an indication of its nature, 
whether it be a common ora leap year. Further, we find in Circle TT. 
tho dade of the Syrian month on which the heginning of the year in qnee- 
tion falls, And lastly, we find in CirclelV. the xame of this Syzian month. 

Here follows the diagram of the Assaying Circle :-— 


10 


20 


CYCLES, YEAR pornts, MOLfps, aXD LEAP NONTHS. 148 


Tf the Enneadecateris, on being complete, returned to the same day of 
the week whence it started, which, as we have already mentioned, is not 
the case, we should have added in the Asseying Cirele a circle V., for the 
indication of the days of the weeks on which the New-Year days of the 
single years of the Enneadecateris would fall. Under these circum- 
stances, howover, it is impracticable. 

If we want to find the week-day with which the day indicated in 
Cirele IIL. corresponds, we compute, by metneds which will be hereafter 
explained, the commencements of either Abh or [lil of the year in 

10 question, in whicheoever of these two monthe that day may fall. On 
having carried out this, we learn what we wanted to know. 

This, our calculation regarding the let of Tichri, is an average cal- 
culation, without any other correction being employed. But now the 
heginning of Tishri frequently falis on such daye which the Jewe, aa 
we have already mentioned, do not allow to be New.Year's day. There- 
fore it becomes necessary te fix it on a day earlicr or later. 

If we, now, want to acquaint ourselves with thie correction ({it. 
equation), we must first mow the conjunction of sum and moon at the 
beginning of Tishri, according to the theory of the Jews themeelves, 

20 uot that of the astronomers. For between theee two theories there are 
certain divergencies :— 

I. They give to the lunar month, extending from conjunction to con- 
junction, the length of— 

: 29d. 12h. 793 Halake, 

which is equal to : 
(29d. 12h.) 44’ 3” 20”, 

[whilet modern observers have found it to be 

29d, 12h. 44’ 2” 17" 2119.) lov 

Therefore the difference between the two computations is - 
30 1" 2” 3eT¥. 4gV p.-146. 

. I. They give the solar year, if they reckon with mathematical aceu- 

racy, the length of 

365d, 53 782h. 
whilst modern aetropomers have fonnd it to be shorter. 


IL. Astronomers teach that that portion of the Nychthemeron which 
elapses hetween the time of conjunction and that moment when new 
moon hecomes visible, varies according to the differences of both the 
longitudes and latitudes of the places, whilst the Jews compute it every- 
where according to one and the same rule, We do not know for which 

40 particular place this mode of computation was originally calculated, but 
it. seome rather likely that it was made for Jerusalem or ita environs, for 
thero was their central seat. 


9.147. 


144 : atpiadnt, 


IV. They determines this space of time (betwesn ths conjunction and 
the appearance of new moon) by Spat xaypexai. Whilst it is well known 
that it is not allowed to ues them for the computation of conjunction, 
except on the equator. 

¥. They compute the conjunctions by the mean, not the apparent 
motion. Therefore pasaover frequently falla two complete days later 
than tha real opposition—one day in consequence of the Fquations, another 
day in consequence of their postponing pasaover from a Dies illicita to a 
Dies licita, 

Computation of the Moled of a Year according to the Jewish 
System.—If we, now, want to find the Méléd of a year, which term 
the Jewa apply to the conjunction at the beginning of each month 
as well as tho conjunction at the beginning of every cycle, wo take 
tho complete years of the ra Adami, ie. till the end of the year 
which is preceded hy the month Tiskri in queation. We convert the 
number of years into Minor Cycles, and multiply the numher of cycles 
hy 2d. 16h. 595", which you get asa remainder if you convert the duya 
of the minor cycls into weeks. The product which arises we keep in 
mind. 

Thereupon, we coneider tha remainder of yerre that do not fil) up one 
complete minor cycle. How many of them are common years, how many 
leap years, we learn hy the Ordo intercalationis, 


mart 
(i.e, the Znd, Sth, 7th, 10th, 13th, 16th, and 18th years of the oyele are 
leap years). 
The number of common years we multiply hy 4d. 8b. 876%, tho 
number of leap years by 5d. 21h. 589 . The product of these two 
raultiplications we add to the sum we have kept in mind. 


To the eum we always add 
5d. 14h, 


which represente tha interval hetwecn the time of the conjunction and 
the beginning of the night of Sunday that was the commencement of 
the first ycar of the ra Adami. 

Then we raise each 1,080 Halake to 1 hour, and add it to the other 
hours; each 24 hours we convert into 1 day, and add it tothe other 
daye. The gum of days that ariees we convert into weeke, and the re- 
mainder of daya that aro lees than a week is the dietance of the Méléd 
from the heginning of the night of Sunday. Now, that time to which 
in the last instance our calculation leads us, is the tima of the conjunc. 
tion at the beginning of Tishri. 

‘Wo have mede such a computation for a year of the ra Alerandri, 
in order to facilitate the process and to simplify the apparatus. 

Ti you want to find the conjunction at the heginning of Tiehri, take 
the years of the Ara Alecandzi, and subtract thérefrom alwaya 12 yeare, 
which are the remainder of the minor cycle at the epoch of the Zm 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


OYCLES, Yeak-poinTs, MOLDS, AND LEAP-MoNTHS. 145 


Alexaudri, according to the Ordo intercalationis JAWIA. The remainder 
of years divide by 19; the quotient you get is the number of minor 
oycles. 

Convert these minor oyclee into great cycles, if they are of a sufficient 
number to give complete great cycles, and keep in mind what remainder 
of years you have got. They are tho current yeara of the cyclo in 
question, according to the Ordo ttercalationis I~}. 

The great cycles, if you get such, compsre with the table of the great 
cycles, and take the number of days, hours, and Halakim which you find 
oppozite them. 

The small cycles compare with the table of the amall cycles, and the 
number of days, hours, and Halikim which yon find opposite them. 

These two number. add together, days to days, hours to hours, and 
Halakim to Halikim. 

This sum add to the Basis, which is written in the table uppermost, 
and which is the Méléd of the 12th year of the Za Alexandri. Con- 
vert each 1,080 Halikim into an hour, each 24 hours into a day, and the 
daya into weeks. The remainder of days you get is the distance between 
the beginning of the night of Sunday and the time of the conjunction. 
This is according to Jewish calculation. 

‘We have used as the starting-point in this our calculation the begin- 
ning of the night for no other reason but this, that they commence the 
Nychthemeron with Ramer as wo Eero menBoued 4 inthe asst eet of ue 


- book, : . 


Hero follows the table, samnpintsa by that method of silertain which 
we have explained in the preceding pages:— 


Tha Kasahara The Years 
of the of the 
Small Sree) Small Cycles. 


2 16 595 
5 9 110 
1 1 705 
3 18 220 
6 10 815 
2 3 + 830 
4 19 | 925 
0 12 + 440 
3 4 1,085 
5 21 550 
1 4 +) 65 
4 6 660 
6 23 175 
2 15 770 
5 8 285 


p.t4a. 


149, 


146 


oye RE 


NerOhW PM OrOWHRON WA OW 


ALBINONI. 


1 
3 
6 
2 
4 
0 
8 
5 
1 
4 
6 
2 
5 


0 oe oe ee a 


10 


20 - 


80 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLRDS, AND LEAP-MONTHS. 147 


faa p.150. 
he Numbera) The Years 


of the | of the Dayo. Hours. Halakim. 
reat Oyoles.. Groat Cycles. 


1 5 ? 480 
2 1064 3 14 920 

3 1596 1 29 800 

4 2128 ry 5 760 

5 2660 |S 13 | (140 

6 3192 3 20 | 600 

20 7 8724 2 3 . 1060 
8 4256 | 0 i 440 

9 4788 5 | 38 900 

10 6320 4 2 280 

ll 5852 2 9. 40 

12 6384 0 17 OI s120 

13 6916 6 0 580 


Astronomical Computation of the Moled of a Year.—If ao mathe. p.151, 
Matician wants to know the time of conjunction as determinsd by 
astronomical observation, not that one which is found by tha rules of 

20 the Jewish chronologers, he may use the (following) table, which we 
have tried to compate in the same way as the preceding ones, on the 
basis of the corrected observations that have heen made not long hefore 
our time. For this purpose we have consulted the view of Ptolemy 
regerding the mean length of the month, the view of Khalid ben ‘Abd- 
almalik of Marwaridh, according to his measurements made at Damas. 
eus, the view of the sons of Misa ben Shilir,and of others. Of all 
these, we found the most deserving to be adopted and followed that of 
the sons of Mis& ben Shikir, because they spent their whole energy in 
endeavouring to find the truth; hecause they were unique in their age 

$0 for their knowledge of, and their skill in, the methods of astronomical 
observations ; kecause scholars bore witness of them to this effect, and 
warranted the correctness of their observations; and lastly, hecause thers 
is a long interval between their observations and those uf the suvients 
(Ptolemy, Hipparchus, ete.), whilst our time is not far distant from 
theirs (ie. from the time when the sons of Misi ben Shakir made their 
observations). 

Now we have computed the Hasis aceording to their view, vis. the date 
of the conjunction at the beginning of the 18th year of the ra Alez- 
andvi. It occurred at Baghdad, 22h. 20° 50" 14 2917: after noor on a 

40 Tuesday. And hecause the meridian of Jerusalem, on account of 
its more western longitude, is behind the meridian of Baghdad by 
14 Zimes, we have subtracted the corresponding space of time, de. 
56 minutes from the date of the same conjunction at Baghdid. So we 
get ag a remainder ths Basie for Jorvsalem, te.— 


20h. 24’ 50” 14/" Q9TV. after noon. 
10 * 


p52. . 


148 ALBiROng. 


He who calewlates on thie basis subtracts alwaye 12 from the incom- 
plete yeara of the ra Alezandri (2c. from the Dre Alecandri, including 
the current year), and converts the remaindcr into greatand small cycles. 
He takes that portion of hours, minutes, seconds, eto. which correaponds 
in the tables to cach of these numbers of great and small cyclee. The 
remainder of eingle yeais he comparea with the table of the consecutive 
years of the emall cycle; he takea the values which he finda in the table 
opposite thia numher of years, and adds these three Characters (of the 
Great Cycles, the SmaR Cycles, and the Consecutive Yoors of the latter) 
together. This sum he adde to the Basis, and raises the hours and 
fractions of an hour to days and the correspo. ding wholee. Thereupon 
he converts the days into weeke,and the remainder which be gets is that 
time which haa elapsed between the noon of Sunday at Jerusalem and 


the conjunction at the beginning of Tishri. 
Hore follows the table as based upon astronomical observations:— 


The Numbers Tho Years 


of the of the Days. | Honrs.|:Minatee.) Seconda,’ Thirds. Fourthe. 
SmattGyoles. Small Oyelaa. 
The Bosts. | 12 2 24 50 14 29 
1 19 2 i 28 57 | 87 53 
2 a | 5 8 57 5B | BS 45 ! 
3 57 1 1 26 53 | 53 39! 
4 7% 6©| 8 | iz: 55; B12 | 52 | 32 | 
5 95 6 | 10; 24 49; 49 f+ 95 , 
6 114 2 2! 58 47 4 47 18 
7 138 4/19 | 92 ! 45 | 45 ll ; 
8 : 152 0} il 51! 43 | 43 4 
9 ! an 3 4 20; 41 | 40 Fy 
10 | ~=(190 5 | 20 49 39 | 38 50 : 
1 {209 1{13 | 18 | 37 | 3¢ | 43 
12 | = 228 4 5 47: 85 | 84 36 | 
13 247 6 | 22 16 | 33 | 32 29 | 
14 | 266 2 | 14 45 31 30 22: 
15 | 285 5 7 14} 99 | 98 15! 
16 6} = 304 0} 3 | 43 | 2 | 96 8} 
17 Of =~ 893 8 | 16 12 25 | 24 1 i 
18 342 6 8 41 23 | 21 b4 
19 361 2 1 10 | 21 | 19 4? 
20 380 4 | 17 89 . 19 | 17 40 
21 399 0 | lo 8 17 | 15 33 
22 8 1 
33 8 13 
24 1 ll | 
25 4 | 9 
26 6 | 7? | 
a7 2 5 { 
28 5 | 3 | ! 
| | 


10 


20 


"30 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOL&NS, AND LEAP-MONTHs, 149 


} j ; ! | p.158. 
The Singles 
Years of the Days. | Hours. Minutes. Seconds. Thirds. Fourtbs. 
Small Cyoles., 1 \ : 
t 
| | | : | 
1 5 | 21; 92: 29 | 45 § 35: 
2 3] 61 20! 57/131 4 
3L 9} 151 9) @ | 4! 8 
4 6 | 12. 41! 54 | 97! 38 
5L 3} 21 380 21 | 55; 32 
6 2 | 19 2: bl | 41 | 27 
10 7 o| 8. 31: 19 | 9: 41 
8L 4} 12 989 | 46 ) 87) 55 
9 s | 10 2! 16 | 93 - 80 
10 0;19. 0° 48; 51 44 
i1L 5 | 3 #@ i!i9 38 
12 4! 12° g 411 5 38 
13 1/10. 10 81338 47 
141 5 | 18 58: 8: 2 1 
15 4 | 16 | 31° 5 | 47 ~ 36 
16 L 2/1 19 ' 33 15 ' 50 
20 17 ola! 5s, S11 2 
18 5; 71 @: 80 2 39 
19t | 2 | 16 | 8 87 | 8? 


——— i | ~~) p54. 
The Numbers | 

of the Their Years. ee Hours. pbiinuten Secoods. Thirds. Fourths. 

+, Cycles. ; F . 


q 
1 are 582 —i| OC 31: 8 0 44, 
2 1064, «38 (11 2! 6 1 28 
3 1596 1 16 33 9 2 12 
4 2128 6 22 4 12 2 56 
80 5 2660 5 3 35 15 3 40 
6 3192 3 9 6: 18 4 24. 
7 3724 1 14 37 21 5 8 
8 4256 6 20 8 24. 5 52 
9 4788 5 1 39 27 é 36 | 
10 5320 3 7 10 30 7 20 
11 5852 2 12 41 38 8 4 
12 | 4384 «=: « «6~—~CtOd8 12. 36 8 43 
ee ce eae 18 6916 4 23 43 39 9 32 


(in this our calculation of the conjunction) we have used zoo as p.155. 
40 terminus a quo for no other reason but this, that we may more easily find 
the aquation for the méléd by this method than by using the horizons 
(i.e. reckoning from sunset, as the Jews dv). 
The hours of the longest day for the latitude of Jerusalem are }3h. 
plus o fraction. Therefore the calculation of the Jews by Spat xayuwai 


p.156. 


150 ALpintst, 


is incorrect, except in case the conjunction at the beginning of Tiahri 
should coincide with the autumnal equinox. This, howevor, never hap- 
pena. On the contrary, the conjunction at the beginning of Tishri always 
either precedes or follows the autumnal equinox by a considerable apace 
of time, as we have explained heretofore. 

Relation between the beginning of the Year and ite Character. 
—If we, now, make ont the time of the conjunction hy the traditional cal- 
culation of the Jewe, or by meana of the table which we have constructed 
according to their theory, we arrive at the knowledge of the beginning 
of the year and of its character, whether it be imperfect, intermediate, 
or perfect, whilst we have already previously learnt how to know whether 
the year be a common ora leap year. Thereupon we look in the Table 
of Limits for a apace of time in the week within the limits of which 
the conjunction as found by our calculation Salls. If the year boa leap 
year, we look into the column of leap yeara; if it be a common year, we 
look into the column of common years. Having made out this, we find 
opposits the indication of the week-day on which the year commencer, 
and of the quality of the year. Once knowing the heginning of the 
year (ite precise date in the week) and ita quality, and combining with 
it our knowledge as to whether the year is @ common or 8 leap year, we 
come to know the beginning of the next following year. 

Here follows the Table of the Limite :— 


| Tha Limits of the Time Spheres as distributed 


Now-Yesr’s 
over the Week, in Common Years. Day. 


y: 


From noon 7 Satarday 
till 
9h. 204H. in the night of Sanday 


From 9h. 204H. in the night of Sunday 
ti 


Sh. 589H. in the day of Monday, if the 
Preceding year is & leap year; 


Noon of Monday, if the preceding year is 
& common year 


From 8h. 589H. in the day of Monday, 
or 

From noon of Monday, 
till 


9h. 204H. in the night of Tuesday 


10 


20 


80 


OYCLES, YEARePOINTS, MOLEDS, AND LEAP-MONTAS. 151 


1 
Tho Limite of the Timo.Spheres as distrihuted "New-Toas'a! Character 
over the Week, in Coutmon Yoars. Da of the Year. 


From 9h. vias in tho night of Tuesday 
9h. 204H. in the night of Thuraday 


From 9h. tt in the night of Thursday 
Noon of Thursday 


From noon of Thursday 


10 
Oh. 208H. in tho night of Friday, if the 


following 700 is & common year; 7 Imperfect. 


9h. 204H. in the night of Friday, if the 
following year is a leap year 


| From 0h. 208H. in the night of Friday, 


or 
From 9h. a04H. in the night of Friday, i} 7 | Perfect. 
20 | Noon of Saturday. 


= —— pls? 
The Limits of the Time Spheres as distributed | wow-Yeur’e! Character 


over the Week, in Leap Yoare. , Day. | of the Yoara. 
From noon of Saturday H 
till 1¢ «2 Imperfect. 
Sh. 2491 H. in the day of Sunday 


From 8h. a in the day of Sunday 
ti 
Noon of Monday 


; 2 Perfect. 


3 | Intermediate. | 


| 


| From noon of Monday 
30 till 
| Noon of Tuesday 


152 aurizobyt. 


over the Week, in Leap Years. Day. of the Years. | 


From noon of ane 
5 Intermediate. 
1th, 695H, in the night of Wednesday 


From 1th. ae in the night of Wednesday 


The Limita of the Time Spberee on distributed Now-Year’s! Choraoter 
Noon of i 


From noon of Thureday 
till 10 
8h. 491H. in the day of Friday 
From 8h, 491H. in the day of Friday 
til Porfect. 
Noon of Saturday. 
158, Further, of theee conditions and qualities there are certain ones which 
oxclusively attach to the year in case ite beginning falls on a certain day 
of the week, the other conditions being excluded. I you call thie cir- 
cumstance to help, it will prove an aid towards obtaining the object in 
view. 
ty the following figure we repreeent thie subject by meane of divisions 20 
and ramifications :— 
Tae YEar 
is either 
@ common year or a leap year. 
Thureday (i.e. if New-Year’e day Thursday. 
ie a Thursday). 
The year cannot be Imperfect. It cannot he Intermediate. 
In sotH Common anp Leap YEARs. 
Tuesday. Monday. Saturday. 
It is always ” Tt can never be It ean never he 30 
Intermediate. Intermediate. Intermediate, 


159. Further, of these conditione there are certain onee which may happen 
in two consecutive years, whilst others cannot. If we compriee them in 
@ Toilasén, it will afford a help towards utilizing this circumstance, and 
will facilitate the method. We must lock into the equare which belongs 


10 


20 


30 


CYCLES, YBAR-POINTS, MOLkDS, AND LEAp-10nTiHs. 1538 


in common to the two qualities of the two years; in that square it ix 
indicated whether the two years of two such qualitios can follow each 
other or not. 


8 2 1 | a 
Qualities 
Imperfect. of the years. 
ioe yg ; 1 

6 °C“ ! 1 
Tatermediate, Coe tall hal Imperfect. | 
aie 4 a Sa “gg — 
Cannot follow § Caufollow ' : | 
Perfect. each other. each other. Intermediate. | 
ee fo aaa, ie meee #5 lt \ 
. 5 : 3 | 
6 Can follow Can follow Can follow ,, © ; 

each other. each other. each other. , 6 Perfect. 3 


i | 


The reason why two intermediate years cannot follow each other ie 
this, that their ends and beginnings cannot be brought into concord with 
each other, ag the Table of Equation at the end of this book will show. 

The reason why two imperfect years cannot follow each other is this, 
that the perfect months among the months of the cycle (Enneade- 
cateris) preponderate over the imperfect ones. For tho small cycle cow- 
prises 6,940 days, #.e. 125 perfect nionths and only 110 imperfect ones, 

For the same reason, three months which are perfect according te the 
appearance of ncw moon, can follow each other, whilst of the imperfect 
months not more than two can follow each other. And their following 
each other is possible only in consequence of the variation of the motions 
of the two great luminaries (sun and moon), and of the variation of the 
setting of the zodiacal signs (i.e. the varying velocity with which the 
sun moves through the various signs of the Ecliptic). 

In what Period the beginning of the Jewish Year returus to 
the same Date—If the conjunctions at the beginuiugs ‘uf two con- 
secutive great cycles (of 5382 years) coincided with each other (i.e. ifthey 
were cyclical in such a way as to begin always at the same time of tke 
week), we should be able to compute the qualities of the Jewish years 
by means of tables, comprising the years of a great cycle, similar to the 
Chronicon of the Christians. However, the méléds of these zycles do 
not return to the same time of the week except in 689,472 yeara, for the 
following reason : 

TI. Character of the small cycle, ¢.e. the remainder which you get by 
dividing its number of days by 7, is 2d. 16h. 595H. This fraction is 
not raised to one whole, except in a number of cycles, which is equal to 
the number of Halakim of one Nychthemeron, i.e. 25,920. Because 


p.160. 


154 ALBIBONE. 


fractiona aro not raised tu wholes, exespt when multiplied by a number 
whioh is equal to the complete number of the eame kind of fractions of 
one whole (i.e. by the denominator). 

But as both the number of the Halfikim of the Nychthemeron (25,920) 
and the number of the remainder of the Haliktm of tho cyclos (595) 
may be divided by 5, the fractions will be raised to whola if multiplied 
by a number of cycles, which is equal to 3 of the Halikim of the 
Nychthemeron, te. 5184, 

Now, the conjunction (at the beginning of the year) does not retarn 
to the same time of the week except in a number of cycles which is the 10 
sevenfold of this number (5184), #.e, 86,288. And this ie the numher of 
eyolee which represent the above-montioned number of years (viz. 
689,472). 

In general, conjunction and opposition return to the same place (te. 
happen again at the same time of the week) in each 181,440 months, 
which is the product of the multiplication of the number of Haldkin of 
one Nychthemevon (25,920) by 7. 

Comparison between the Jewish Exa and the Era of Alexander. 
—Since it is not possible to use this method for chronological purposes, 
we have not thought it proper to deviate from the traditional method, 20 
inasmuch ac it tries to bring near that which is distant, and simplifies and 
facilitates that which ie difficult and intricate. It is eufficient for ue to 
know the beginnings and the qualities of the years, and the corresponding 
dayeof the Syrian months on which the days of Now Year fall, for such a 
number of yeare ss that the student will not require more in the majority 
of cases, This information we have recorded in three tables :-— 

L The first representa the day of the week on which the year com- 
mencas ; tha Tohula Signorum. 

IL The second, or Tobula Qualitatum, showe the qualities ofthe years. 

The letter & (M) designates an Imperfect year, hecause in their 80 
langaage it is called pM. 

The letter 4 (5) means an Intermediate year, because they call it 

STO. 

p.161. Te letter > (yf) means a Perfect year, because they call it orb. 

Til. The Tabula Integritatum ct Quantitatum, representing the days on 
which the Jewish New Year falls, the days of Abh in red ink, the daye 
of Til in black ink. 

Using these tables you take the Anz Alezondr for the current year, 
beginning with Tishrin I., which falls alwaye (@ little) later than Tishri. 
The whole number of years you compare with the vertical column of 40 
years; the single years (of the periods of nineteen years) you compare 
with the horizontal eolumn of years. Thon you find in the square which 
is common to both, that which you wanted, if God permite! 


pple {X[exe follow the three tablee, which I have united into oue.] 


rnc Sr seh ATTEN OP ra SS A 
a : 


ae] yw 3 | Yer | vars 
" |__|} 28s, | oti 
2 | aie 
5a [2 y \7 yg 4764 | tas 
etn}. 
25135 |2y| 4773 | 1012 
ae tar |s1 
65 [2m |5u | 4702 | 1081 
oak fist [ard 
ACE 
atlist| 11 { 
217 w (Bn | 4880 | 1069 
pei |iet] 4] 
4849 {1088 
7y|5sle 2 B35 {2u 7 
20% (10% aoa ot 20k 51 leet lit 14 
i7elSel8s lense La 486¢ | 1107 
89/7815] 65 l2y 5H) 5o/2ql7m] 55 (20 "| 
art| oF |so%|i9 81 |26A)151| "4 at ni |ara 
r 7 | 1138 
7H 169\2rm 1705 |5 18517 my | Sw | 488 
2th |e | 22 (eh |s0h | SD [aod [art lane 
2 7 8 2 +A BE Aal 8 7 y | 4906 1145 
I7T| 71 |2eA/141) 81 jad any [sia 
By l2y/7 7155/2 GB /2 G17 | 85 | 2925 | es 
wt 6Y |o7A) tat | 3% laa lad ara 
iR3 
79165\2ul2nl5e|55 (20175 | oH 
174] 72 [20% )a6'F | of Lon jar | 17 
sal7ulbuldslan sy lan] 1202 
89/7 BIB | 55/2 /7y | 55 | 2p | 4969 
7A | oF Jar%| i534 |Z 1 ar'h 
56/8517 B17 | 852m 17 | Bry | $082 | deen 
16%] 62 26%) I81| 22 art | 11 a 
S—lestecieslreteciasie ton a 
2n)5 85/2517 by | 2y)7 800! 
181| oY jee lia | 47 lard {104 [at 
ba 2 wl7n | S512 Bala 5020 } 1259 
1st! 7% |a7A| iat | 3 [zo | 10t (30 
7wlSsl2nl7uleylssi2 B af | 6009 { 1278 
i7| 79 loPAlist | 3 Jost (12 [30 
2 /7y 15m] 3517 B17 mH | > | 21; 5058 | Ig07 
1 agAlisl| oY [e7Alagt| 21 jaar |127| 21 
] ; 351205174 [51] 5077 | 1916 
E 7g (5B {89 l2nl5qlb5l2y (7m | 65 \2y 7B 17 
2008 V7 | 82 [adds | 4% Loe 1s hi 201 | oY \30A 177/57 lasAjist| a1 iat \1 vi 
sa \7y 7 W185 2nl7u| 85 l2ul2n(852uieulinls5i2 7 7 5088 1335 
3 7 5 3 ' : 
1 AOA Tort] 7 [ast list] 4 let lio] 2 20% 91 ‘2oAli8 63 |26Altat| 41 j22T|i07 at sar hae 
; ’ i Bs l2py lbw] by [Ary | 7g) 5s oe 
jt At 1\4 at ist a7 aot OF lad wai | 77 iota! ia2 | ‘34 att B0A: 
: : ay icy '7 wi |B ge ! 5194 | 1973 
- Talk ee Zl bo) em lz alse las | 
= 191] 74 [20a 164] 3% 1237 (194 VT sot! oF 20% ii] 7% a7 Alaet) sf jeri iol |sra 
1765 [55 25 [Su Ba l2n|7ml 412 {2 Sy 852 7m lea lem(2e an 83 7 a | 8168 | 3098 
191} 8 me 37 [29 } 10% 17 201| 8% 129 i71) 61 j26A} 131) 3 a ee 
5 | . i 7ml 55) 2p] 2a 7m) 35 
2 7 6 3 14 5 6 2m bw 5 2 iad 2 
me lin adh list] 87 j2Al nt | 5¥ at 91 28Ali71| of [254/18 oP leet 11 {30 iL a 
7 : ‘glint ri 2blenlsyls5 2ml7n: 
Bl 8a 17 Bl 7135/7 B17) 85 l2n]7 5s] in 
ree Nt oY ae tet] 49 add nda 20 10 isdAl1e1| OF 1264 idt of ae} nt Lae | 
ay : 7%: fey /[55j2n|79 55 [2r 
5 2 4 5 By 12 7 B52 7.5 3 : # oy | i "Tlark 
er Nek 79 aga li4 47 j204 ist aA jio’ oF ‘adh 162} 61 j26A 151 81|2rt 117 |a1 ule 
: 5 fa Tal sal2e 7m [5a] 85/767) 8527 y Spy 5229) 1468 
; ie 4 j BIL. 
1780 | TR] P2 lait | OY loot 104 | 27 iat 8¥ lod 16 51 [25 [141] 21 [201 10 ape 
“yoo | 35 ; 5 ¥ ‘55° Se l8sl2ul’nlos 2ulte 
5 6 2 7 6 2 7 5 z 2n ! | 30k | 
1708 Vat | oY [ePAlted | G8 (ae (tod AT Tot | 8 (288 WH} gf asAliat. st [21 as eee 
J yi85 2 t Ba yer {55 2 ey: 5207 | Is 
< 7 5 3 7 6 6 2n 59/5 2y/7 ‘ot 
pe is J iehk 16 3P st nt 19 ert 101 28All7 et 27 ie 21 mies 


LO 


80 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLDS, AND LEAP-MONTHS. 155 


The beginnings of the Jewish Months—lDet us euppose we did p.168, 


not know by means of the Tabula Quentitatwm on what precise date in 
tho months Abh or Ill the Jowish New Year falla, but we knew from 
tho Tabula Signorum on what day of the week it falls, and wa had pre- 
viously learnt from the Assaying Circle on what date of Abh or flAl on 
an average it falls (no regard being had to the Dehiyyéth). In thie case 
we should be sufficiently informed to know in what way to advance or 
to poatpone the date of the Syrian month if this day of the week should 
be incompatible with Résh-hashshind, so aa to get at last the legitunate 
New-Yoar’s day (lacuna) more particularly as the three festivals are to 
be found with perfect accuracy in the preceding three tables. 

(In this way) we obtain 2 Luowledze of the eva of tho Jews, of the 
beginning of their year, and of its complicated nature. Hence we pre- 
ceed to learn the beginnings of the single months of their year, either 
by distributing over the months their proper portions of daya in con- 
formity with the two qualities of the year in question (whether it be 
ti, 5 or por a common or leap year), or by meane of the Tabula 
Initiorum Mensium. You compare the Résh-hashshaind with the Toble of 
the Signum (week-day) of Tishri; in the table of common years, if the 
year be @ common year; in the table of leap years, if the year be a leap 
year, At the side of thie column you find another, which indicates 
whether the year be imperfect, intermediate, or perfect. After having 
made out this, you find in the correaponding squares the beginning of 
each complete month, and the two beginnings of each incomplete month. 
For the Jews assign to each month which ie preceded by a complete 
month two beginnings (two firat daye), viz. one day which is in reality 
the beginning of the month, and the preceding day, or the 30th day 
of the preceding complete month. This you must keep in mind, for it 
is part of their bewildering terminology. God ie allwise and almighty ! 


TaBLe sHowING on WHAT Days OF THE WEEK THE BEOINNINO oy p.169. 


THE Monrrae FALLS THEOUCHOUT THE YEAR. 
Table of Common Years. 


1 ‘7 = + 
] lg | 
| | é Quality ce 
: = og 3 ‘a of the : 
aig i 2. é q | z 3.8 5 Tor, 
Hols aj lk ig 2 FI ‘a 
eae iain all —— . cea = 
a4mnfa2fiveie (sivis | an iz. av. am | an {Porfect. .! 7 
an i? }@evwl4alamli ste ie 4° 3 Zt. | Imperfect 7 
ev. (4 [3m (1 |[7vL [5 |4mn 12 -ivm cv. | 41 | Pesfect . Py 
40m {2a livmle {srv.fa | er |; : 8 & |4 Ut, | kmperfest . 3 
ev. l4 jan. ta lrveis am iaiivm «9 !srv.!Intcmoitate 3 
au ldy{}ev. la fam ii levijs jane an |zvelpatet. .. 5 
1vmle [siyis tan 7 | ev. ts 1 Th ees 5 


p.h70. 


p-171. 


156 ALBinont. 


Table of Leap Years. 


They were induced to agsume two Résh. Hédesk, 2a I am inclined to 
think, by the circumstance that originally they counted the com- 
plete month as 29 daya pure (te. without any fraction), and that ia 
in fact the correct time of the interval between two consecutive conjunc- 
tions. Into the 30th day, however, Sall the fractions of the eynodic 
month (i.e, the first 12 hours 793 Haliiktm of the 30th day helong to 
the preceding mouth, whilst the latter 1Ih. 287H. belong to the 
following month). Therofore they referred this 30th day to the month 
that, had passed, so that thereby it hecame in reality complete, and to 
the incomplete month (jnst commencing), so that this latter one got two 
beginnings (i. the latter 11h. 287H. of the 30th day, and the first 
whole day of the new month). But God knows hest what they 
intended ! 


Computation of the beginning and middle of the Months 
according to Jewish and Astronomical Systems.—1f we now want 
to know the time of conjunction at the beginning of a month, or the 
time of opposition in the middle of the month, according to the system 
of the Jewe, we derive them from the Tuble of Miléds and Fortnights, 
where we find the Conjunction opposits the méléd of each month, and 
the Opposition opposite its Fortnight; for tho common year in the 
column of common years; for the leap yeare in the column of leap years. 
The number we find we add to the Méléd Tishri, ie. to the conjunction 
at the beginning of Tishri; the fractione we convert into wholes, the 
days into weeks. In this way we find what we wanted to know. 


20 


30 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLEDS, AND LEAP-MONTHS, 157 


If we want to learn the same according to the doctrine of the astrono- 
mere, we make the same calculation with the Zuble of Conjunctions and 
Oppositions, using the table of common years if the year in question bo 
a common year, and the table of leap years if the year in question be a 
leap year, and with the conjuuction at the beginning of Tishri as com- 
puted by the astronomers. In this way we arrive at the knowledge of 
both conjunctions and oppositions which we wanted. 

Here follow the tables :— 


TaBLE of THE MéLéps anp Fortnionts. 
; I Leap Year. 

10 The Molds | Thoseléds = j 
and Fortnights =‘ 1 and Fortsighta |— | t y 
of the Mouths. Days. Hours. " of th Slonths, [Pare Hows. } ee 

ek ay 1 as 
Méléd Wishrt =. LO Méléd Tishstt. .' 0 oO | OG 
Ita fortnight . O | Ite fortnight .: 0 18 , 396k 
Méléd Marbeahwin 1 : Méléd Marheshwao ! I 12 | 793 
Ita fortnight .: 3 | Its fortnight .| 2 7 11094 
Moléd Kisléwe =. . 3, Maid Kislbw =. | 3 1 | 506 
| Its fortoight .° 3 Itsfortnight .} 3 19 | 902h 
j Méld ‘Teheth =. | 4 | Maléd Tébeth ./ 4 4 | 219 
20 | _ Itsfortnight .- 5 | Itsfortnight .j| 5 8 | 615s 
| Méiéd Shohhat «=: 6 | MOled Shebith .| G 2 oie | 
j ._ Its fortaight | 6 | Itsfortnight .| 8 21 | 328% 
Moléd’Adhir .j 0 MOléa *Adbir I. QO: 15 | 725 
Its fortnight ./ 1 ltsfortoight .| 1° 10 | 40 
Méltd Nisto. =. ! 9 Méléd’Adbar TI. .| 2 {| 4 | 438 
Ita fortnight. | 2 ltsfortnight .| 2 22 | 8313 
Méléd’Tyar. | gs Méléd Nisin . 3 {151 | 
Its fortnight .{ 4 Itsfortaight .. 4 | I | 547}! 
) Mold Sivan, 4: 5 Moléa Iya. 5 | 6 {S4t 
80 Its fortnight .° 6 Ics fortoight . 6 Q | 2603 
Méléd Tammuz .| 6 Méléd Stwan. =. G | 18 | 65 
Ita fortnight .| 0 Its fortnight O } 12 |l0s34 
Méléd Abb. 1 Météd Tammuz I | 7 {370 
Its fortnight .| 2 Itefortnight .' 2 1 | 7663 
Mold’ElQ] . | 2 Méléd Abb ‘ wl 2 20 2 
Its fortnight .) 8 tafortnight = - ; 
Molad’EIG). ss 4 8 | 876 
Its fortnight .| 8 | 3 | 1923 
| | ! 


158 ALBinon?, 


pe Taste oy Consunctions aNp QOpposirions. 
75. 


The = 
Samco | | lglals a {ld)gid 
wee ELE ARCtrate 

& S}E 8 
i ae fh a) (alkanes Fa [~ 
chonof}0 10 | 0 | a | 0 | o [Cor io olotololo}o;o 

Tse fall moon 10 {18 [23 | 1 | 8 Itafall moon .| 0 [18 [22 1 x | ¢ | 403 

Conjunction at }2 |19 | 44 | 8 {a7 | at Oprctoe at 1 [as {4s | @ [27 12K 

sideman ts 71 @| 8 fas | ig} tstulmon. |e] 7.6 [3 jee: y 

‘nction i ion of Ps | 49) 
ction ot | 8 | 1 128 | 4 | 94 | 495 | Conjunction of | s ‘| 4 [94 | 493 
1efall moon .(3 {29 | 40 | 5 {as | gs }isefallmoon.| 3 |29 | 90 | 5 |48 | 2s 

Confanction of }4 |14 }29 | & }2B | Sp} Conjonctionof| 4 [14 }12 | 6 | ae | 8 
Tébeth. t T : 

Ttafalimoon. (5 | 8 (2% | 8 | © 444; | Ttafollmoon.| 5 | 3 [st | 8 | O | 44 

junction of |8 | 8 138 | # | 8 Conjunctionof | 8 | 2 | | 9 | B | 24: 
Mints el ike sty : 
Itafallmoon.|6 [21 /18 |20 ;18 | 5p] Ttefallmoom.| @ {a1 {18 110 {18 | 5p 

of }0 }15 [40 } ua }s6 | 46 anctionos | 0 [1s j4o | | 2a | 46 
Conimotion Confunction 
Ytrtathmom . {1 [20 | 2/12 +35 | 263 .]1 ]10 | 3 [12 | 35 | 26g 
of |3 | 4 | 26 (13 | 44 Conjunction of | 3 | 4 | 26 | 18 | 44 

a eae 7 | Cons pro % 

3ta fall moon. }3 123 | 46 14 } sa | 474 | Hterfalt-moons | a [23 | 48 | 14 | 53 | 474 

Conjnnetion of }8 [17 | 8 )1s | 1 janctionof | 3 | 17 | 8 [16 | 1 
ate ad be es 

Its follmoon. {| 4 [12 18) (17/10 | 8 fitefolimoon.| 4 [12 | 8 | 17 | 10 ! 8 

Conjunction of {5 | 5 [48 [18 | 18 {403 | Conjunction of | B | 6/58/18 | 28 | 403 

Itafullmoon.| 8 | 0 }14 |19 | 37 | so rafal'woon.|@ | o 14 [38 | 2 80} 

function of |@ | 38 | 86 {20 | 36 | 10 of | 8 [18 | 96 | 20 10 
ono a es sae 

Ttafall moon. /0 |18 (88 {a1 | 44 [512 | Ttafallmoon, 1; 0 |12 | 69 ie 4 | He 

otionof 11 | 7 | 20 | 23 | 69 | sa | Confonctionct/1 | 7 | 20 122 | ss 
Tammuz. 

Tea full moon .}3 | 1 ;42 125 | 2 |r9¢] Ieafallmoon.| a | 1 [43 [os | 9 at 

Comjanction of | [90 | 4 | 25 | 20 | 63} | Conjunction of | @ | 20 } 4 [25 [10 | oe; 

Itaful] moon. |8 | 14 [28 26 | 19 | 89} ] Itsfullmoon.| 8 {14 [ea |96 | 18 | atp 

Conjunction of | $ } 8 } 48 ) 27 | 28 | 149 
Tes fullmoon.| 5 | 9 }10 | 28 | 36 |b 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLEDS, AXD LEAP-MONTHS. 159 


We aleo find what wo want to know regarding tho Jewish yeara, by p.176. 
computing the next opoosition (or full moon) after the vernal equinox, 
occurring in that epace of time within the limits of which the Jewish 
passover varies; then we consider on what day within this time it falla, 
reckoning the day from one sunrise to the next one. If the opposition 
occurs on one of Dice Licite, that day ia the day of passover ; if, how- 
ever, it occurs on one of the Dies éilicite, i.e. the days of the three inferior 
planets, we postpone paseover to the second (the next following) day. 
This postponement of passover they call in their language ‘yyy Dahi. 

10 Then you make the eame computation in order to find the passover of 
the preceding year. To the Signum (i.e. week-day) of thia latter pass. 
over you add two, whereby you get the day of the 1st of Tishri that lies 
in the middle between the two passovers. Then you count the days in- 
tervening hetween the two passovers; if they exceed the number of daya 
of a eolar year, that year in which the latter passover lice is a leap 
year; if they are lees, the year is 2 common year, 

Jn this chapter you may learn the primary qualities of the year (its 
being common or interealary), but not its secondary qualities (its heing 
perfect, intermediate, or imperfect). For frequently passover has been 

90 postponed, when it ought to have been advanced according to the theory 
of the Jews, or it has been advanced when, according to them, it ought 
to have been postponed. ‘Therefore, you get no exact information as to 
the quality of the year, whether it be perfect, intermediate, or imperfect. 
Frequently, even the opposition occurred near to one of the limits of 
that space of time, within which pasgover variea, whilst each of the 
places of sum and moon, aa made ont from appearance, was at variance 
with its mean place, on account of the alternate acceleration arid retarda- 
tion of the motion of sun and moon, in conformity with the total sum 
of their Universal Equations. Therefore, euch an opposition not being 

80 fit to be employed, either the preceding or the following opposition was 
adopted. 

For this reason there is a difference between the Jewish computation 
and this (astronomical) method, to such a degree that frequently 
according to the Jews the year waa a leap year, whilst thie astronomical 
calculation proves it to have been ® cammon year, and vice verad. 

Likewige there ia a difference between Jews and Christians regarding 
the leap year, as we shall explain in the chapter on the Christian Fust, if 
God permits. If, now, there is a difference between them, and they are 
willing to accept our decision, we shal] consider the two oppositions of 

40 their two passovers, and shall] gay, that that opposition at which the 
moon moves in ths middle part of Spica or of Cancer, or the sun is about 
to leavo Aries, into be rejected according to both systems, whilst the con- 
trary is to be adopted. ‘To the lover of truth, the correctness of these 
two assertions will be apparent, if the conditions we have mentioned are 
obeerved. 


p.l7?, 


160 ALBiRON{, 


The Cyoles of Yobel and Shaba‘—The Jews have still other cycles, 
e.g. the cyole of Yebé? and the cycle of Shadi‘, te. of seven years, The 
first years of both oycles are called “vestitution years.” For God says, 
regarding tho cyclo of soven years, in ths third book of the Thora 
(Levit. xxv, 2-7): “When yo coma into the land of Canaan, ye shall 
sow aud reap and prune your vineyards six years. But in the seventh 
year yo shall not sow nor gather your grapes, but leave them to your 
servants and maids, and to those who sojourn with you, and to the cattle 
and tha birds.” 

Thesame command God repeats in tha second book of the Thora (Exodus 
xiii. 10,11): “And six years thou chalt sow thy Jand, and gather in 
the produce thereof. But the seventh yesr thou shalt let it rest, and 
ehalt leave thy prodaos during that year to the poor and the cattle.” 

Likewise their religion and law allow a poor man to sel} his child to a 
rich man, i.¢. to giva it in hire to him, to do service unto him; but not 
for sexnal intercourse, fur that requires s marrisge-portion and a mar- 
tiage-contract. The child does him service during the cycle of Shabu, 
and it is set free, unless it doos not choose to be set free. For God says 
in the second bovk of the Thora (Exod. xxi. 2-6) : “If anyone of you buy 
@ servant from amcsug the Israelites, six years he shall serve, but in the 
ssventh year he will go out of his possession, aad will be free to go 
where he pleases, he and his wife, if he have got one. But if the 
servant say, I lovs my master and will not leave his servico, then bis 
master shall bring him naar the door-post, and shall bore his ears with 
an awl, end shall keep him as a servant 2s long 2s he pleases.” 

The cycle of Yébél was wanted on account of the following command 
of God in the third book of the Thora (Levit. xxv. 8-13): “ You shall 
sow the land seven times seven, which is forty-nine years. Then you 
shall cause the trumpot to sound thronghout all your land, and yon shall 
hallow it for the fiftieth year. You shall not sow nor resp. And in the 
fiftieth year the restitution shall take place.” “The land shall not be 
sold for ever, for the land is mine and yon are its inhabitants and 
sojournsrs with me” (Levit. xxv. 23), “‘ Everything that has been sold 
is to be restored in the fifticth year. You shall sell according to the 
number of years,” ¢¢. the remaining years of the cycle of Yéabél (Levit. 
uxv. 18-15). 

In the sams book (Lsvit. xxv. 39, 40), God says: If thy brother be 
waxken poor, and be sold unto thee, thou shalt not compel him to serve 
asa bond servant, bot as s hired servant and as @ sojourner until the 
year of restitution.” 

Because of the circumstances brought sbout by these regulations they 
required these two cycles,in order that in their sales the higher and 


10 


20 


30 


40 


lower prices should always correspond to the remaiming number of yeara — 


of the cycle, There are stil! other religious regulations of theirs which 
rendered them necessary. If, ¢.g. a servant does not wish to be set free, 


10 


30 ¢* 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MGLEDS, AND LEAP-MUNTHS. 16] 


and remains in the condition of a servant during the whole cycle of 
Yébél, he cannot be retained after that period. 

Now, if you want to know how many sears have elapsed of each of 
the two cycles (at a certain time), take the years of the Ara Adaai, 
including the current year, subtract therefrom 1,010, or add thereto 
740; divide the sum br 350, and neglect the quotient. The remainder, 
however, compare with the celumn of sumbers in the Tabula Legum, 
epposite which you find the statement of the number of years which 
have elapsed in each of the two cyoles, 

Here follows the Tabula Leguim : 


Tasos Lrooua. 

3 ij or a ee ee See 
SER wt : .' oer : Pe eae | 

Zz v 
Ussfaagdcadaadasdaaiaa 
esses deka asa eed aka 2k a 
RE eee ees S, 
bo 1 1 its’ 5 Mh 2 8 76 86 6 IHL 1, 8 1B B 7 Is}, 1) 4 
a's aie 6 8 2 8 7 8 7102 4 wr 27 1 at, 8 5) 
$3 39 8 8 73 8 4 7 210 3 5 1 B21 s By 
ai 42/29, 1 St 4 5 DD 2 10) 4,6 19 2 3 Ist 4 7) 
aan) hued ad a 5 6 6 s 3105 5 7 19 9 4 15 5 1] 
8 6 s mis) 3,8 6 7 sf M4 MG G1 Is IG By 
7? 7,82 00) 4: 87 7.1 st sz) 5 17 7 8 12 BR) GI 7 3, 
8.8 r 93] 99] 5/58 a, 2 6s ss, 6:108 8) 3 1s3.93' 7 158-8 4 
/ 9 9 9:95:95 6/58 9, 3 Bb Ss 7 109 9! + 13) a) 1 I OS 
1 19/10 3 :35- 7,6 1. & BH 1 NO 10 § WS ww; 2-10.10 6! 
j Wp 4-86 86, 1G MS ew! 2 Ml UN; 6 ww Ww 8 ig U7: 
[ iajw 5 9 isg:@2 1 6 # Sy § N2 W7 IW wr: 4 We Ww 1 
1313 6 8 3%; 3 6 18 5 B B SRN ES) OTS 5 18 12 2 | 
[si 7 59 38° 4:6) 1 1 88 89 5 ll a. 2 198 49 6 16 M4 3! 
[1815 1 40 4 5 BF 15 2 0 40 6 1S 15 gw 0 7 15 5 4! 
ladies 2 '41'6 c¢ 6 3 OF 4 7 Le we 4 1 HD les 6 OS 
wii $42 8:7 oP 174 Be LM wis ee, 2 we Ww oF 
Lisiis 4 49 a3'1'6 185 93 49 2 11 S16’ 6 13 43 3 18 18 aj 
De 5 44 4a: ‘9 68 196° M 44 38 110 137 44 4) $168 wy 1 
sol2o ¢ 1 a5! 3° we 7° a5 45 419 0/1 14 545 5 170 m9 2 
ai | at Pod al te ee 1: 06 46 5 131 a eterna ieee 
es | 22 ge eit 4 eee 6 is ta; 3 M7, 47 ? lw 2 4 
23 | 23 2)! 8) 8 79 23 $8 48 7 WS Bs 4 19,48] Lm eS 
Wi 8 40 4D 7-76. 4 9 48 1 me BS OL do) BITE MH; 6! 
1 ales 4 90/50} 1j7 $35] 5J10050 2,12 2:6 15%. 8 17s 95. 7 


1 I ; a ‘ 
: a ‘i ie i 1 cede 


11 


p-178, 
179 


p. 182 


’ t . 
ane ee ee ee eee 
baidadigaiagladigdia 
Beas Bla & HFG wha AR GAR GC, 
Bae ope Oe He co bal tall tae ahh on Oe 
weles 1 wo | 1 8 1a20 ee! a'en, 1! ata sisr:1 7/88 ¢g 4 
ji a7°8, 29, 8 6,97, 87: 3 oa: a; 7 afer 4 sa fo 1 S87 97 s| 
| 178 23 ,5| 903] 3 7 2a, 28 6 O58 31 avs|os. § 808 gs as 2, 6 
j178 99; 4/209) 4.1 990/29: § B5t: 4! gar] 297 8 SOS 4 31999 BF 7) 
j 180 90,8; 205! 5-2.290;80 6 255-513 coli ss 6 isso sp 1. 
list. suiajeos; ¢ sjasiis 7 esc’ 6] 4 clei 1 s6-6 Sis m a} 
ae) gor! 7, 4lesaisy 1 ssi 7! s-eanjse: a aia ela sa a! 
183 + 33 sam] olalemimy mel af sated ¢ wo: 7| ses ss! 4 
iat! gta o!s|sss!as' 3; 250] 2 7 as 4 300} 9) 1/398 gt: 5 
iss f a3} 3 | so 16/2 | 29s as| 4'9c0]16] 1! 285; 35 5‘ 810110} 2! $35 g8: 8 
ea! sa} ¢}ara|sx}a|2s0} a8! s'ec)ar] afeas}se} oi sitar! s| ass ve! 2] 
er | a7 | | ans | 13 alesr|s7| s-26a}e} 3‘ eer}er| 2 aslia! «|sor sv | 
198 | sa] 6 | sis | 1 | 3! 250 cal ove] ist 4! esa] sal a alis! s ssa sa! a 
wo‘ ag! 7} ar} 14| 6! 299/25! 2 * 264 | a4 5 | 208 | 39 a‘sis]is! s | sa *| s| 
uo! | as|is's' sala 2 m5 )15) 6 20] 40 8 a15;15! 9} 310 40 7 
sll be het tel elon 'an 8! m0 16 refer: 4 ms |18 rfan a! 5, 
[wma agai si7 ii)? sa 40° 4 oe 1 oe de 6 SIT 17 8 ws a 
ts 49 }6)m8,19/2 219, 49 sad bak taal bad heliastibedidian ied 
108 44,5; m9 20,8 20 44 6 om 19; 8 se 7 a 4 ah as 1 
1195 45,6 80; 20°93 BS 45 7 HOB, 6 BL 1 GW MH FHS MS, 2: 
jw 4 7 ea 4 ae.4 1 Sa 5 eee gM At G'S as 8 
1167 47,1 €29-22°5 ee 47 2 Haim 8 OT. 47, 3 OM. ee 7 MP AT 4, 
1193 4852; 925,03 6,9 48 3 Os 83 7 28 48 4 OH 1 HS HS 
|» 4958 Ma ol7 949 4 B74; 8h; 1 aso | to. 8 s06 +08 a.u9 49 8. 
4200 8 4) 2s asittesolso, s 975125) 2 SO 8 8,335 8 8. 3 wel? 
ee kh eto ae ae 


On the Teknfoth or Year-points,—Besides the cycles we have 
mentioned, the have cther cycles called Yekifoth MD yp. Tehifd 


means with them he commencement of each of the quarters of the yeur. 
Therefore 
the Tekifd of Nisdn is the vernal equinox, 
the Tekifd of Tammuz, the aummer golatice, 
the Tekafd of Tishri, the autumnal equinox, 
and the Tekapé of Fébeth, the winter solatice. 


The interval between two consecutive Tekiféth they determine equally 
at one-fourth of the days of the year, #e. 91d. 73h. And on this rule 
they have based their calculations for the dete’ mination of the Tekifsth, 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLEDs, AND LEAP-MONTHS, 168 


(which were rendered necessary for thia reason, that) the Jewish priests 
forbade the common peoplo (the laity) to take any food at the hour of 
the Tekifi, maintaining that this would preve injurious to the hedy. 
This, however, ie nothing but ons ef the snares and nets which the 
Rabbis have laid fer the people, and by which they have managed to 
catch them and to bring them under their sway. The thing has come 
to this, that people do net start en any undertaking unless ther are 
guided by Rabbinical epinions and Rabhinical directions, without asking 
any other porson’s advice, as if the Rabbis were Lords heside the Lord. 
But God makes his account with them ! 

The Jews maintain, too, that at the hours of the Aféléds of the montha 
the water becomes turhid; and one Jew, who ia considered a wise and 
learned mau, told me that he himself had witnessed it. If this he the 
truth, it must, of couras, ba explained by the results of astronomical 
observation, net hy means of their traditional systsw ef chronological 
eomputation. On the whole, we de not deny the abstract possibility of 
auch a fact. For the etudents of physical sciences maintain that marrow 
and brain, eggs, and most moist substances increase and decrease with 
the increase and decrease of the moonlight; that the wive in caske and 
jugs hegins to move so as to get turbid with sediment; and that the 
blood during the increase of moonlight runs from the interior of the 
hody towards the outer parts, whilat during ita decrease it sinks back 
into the interior of the body. 

The nature of the Lapis Lune ie stil! more etrange than ail thie; for 
it 18, a8 Aristotle says, a stone with a yellow dot on the surface. This 
dot increasea together with the increasing mocnlight, av as te extend 
ever the whole surface of the stone when the moon has become full; 
afterwards it decreases agaiu in the same proportion as the moonlight, 

The Jew who told me this is a trustworthy authority, te whove account 
no suspicion attaches. Therefore these appearances, as related by the 
Jews, are not impossible in the abstract. 

The intervala between the Tekiiféih, aa reckoned by the Jewish 
acholara, are identical with those of Ptolemy, ée., 


From the Tekifa of Tishri to the Tekifi of Téebeth= 881d. 


¥ 73 Tébeth a »  Nisin=903d. 
Js 7 Nisan iy r Tammuz= 94} d. 
» ” Tammuz ” Tishri=925 d. 


This gives a sum of 365} daye. 

In the computatiez of the Tekiféth they do not reckon the year with 
mathematical accuracy. Fer, as we bave already mentioned, if they 
reckun with mathematiosl acumracy, they fa he svlar yeu ab 


365 d. 52222 h 
11 * 


1. 183 


164 ALBin¢ent?. 


Computation of the Distance of the Apogee from the Vernal 
Point.—lf we, now, know the days of the year-quarters, we knew alsa 
the place of the apogee of the aolar sphere. 

Tf we want to know the place of the spogee, such as it wae at the time 


of their observations, we must find tho mean motion of the sun for 
one day. 


We multiply the fractions of one Nychthemeron, 
fe, 98,496, 


whieh they call the Solar Cyets, by 860; and the product wo divide by 
the longth of the solar year, efter it haa be n converted into the same 
kind ef fractions, 


40, $5,975,351, 


which number they call the Basis. 
By this method, as they have described it, you find the mean metion 
of the aun for one Nychthemeron to be about 


0° 59’ 8" 17" ZIV. 46%., 


For one day stands in the asme proportion to all the days of the solar 
year as that portion of degrees of thc sphere, which the eun traverses in 
one day, to the whole circle, 

Now we draw the circle abe d, representing the solar sphere as 


homocentric with the Ecliptic, around the centre 4, Then you make 


the beginning of Aries; 
the beginning of Cancer ; 
the beginning of Libra; 

d the beginning of Capricorn. 


[ alowed 


Further we draw the two diameters a he and #h d. 

Already bofore, in recording their theory, we have mentioned that the 
gun requirea mote time fo traverse the quart > a6 than the other 
quarters. Therefore the centre of the Eecentric Sphere must lie in this 
quarter, 

Let z be tho eontre of the Ezcentric Sphere. Around it wo draw the 
circle 2 17 x, touching the homocentric sphere, as & representation of the 
Excentric Sphere. The point of contact is @. 

Then we draw the line zc, the diameter rz mk parallel with the 
diameter a %e throngh the centre 2, and finally the radius Zz, which we 
prolong ae a straight line as far az 2, parallel with the diameter 5 h d. 

Because, now, the gun in his mean motion traverses the half circum- 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLEDS, AND LEAP-MONTHS, = 165 


ference a bc, i.e. the sum of the vernal and summer quarters, in 187 days, 
tho section s f 2 of the Excentric Sphere is equal to 


184° 18' 52” 438"” 122¥., 
Hf wo subtract from this the half circle + t FR, i.e. 180 degrees, we get 
ay & remainder the sum of 2 rand & 2, i.e. 
4° 18’ 52” 49” QTV. 
However, these tvo (grand & 2) are equal, since the two diameters ere 
parallel. Therefore each of them is 
2° 9' 26" 21” g6t¥., 
And the sine of each of them, te, the lino z g, is equal to 
0? 2’ 15" 80” 571°, 
if you take tho radius ?zas 1 degree. 


Since the sun traverses the quarter a 5 in 94} days, the section «J of 
the Ezcentric Sphere is equal to 


98° 8 34" 38” 44Ir., 


And because s J is the sum of #F, which is known, and of rf, which is 


the quarter of a circle, we find, on subtracting « } from 3 f, Uf to be equal 
to the remainder, ¢.¢. 


0° 59’ 8” 17” BIv., 
The sine of Tf according to the exme measure is 
0° 1’ 1" 55” gstv., 
This is the line z m, which is equal tosh. 7 Pee 
Therefore, in the rectangular triangle #34, th ‘wo sideszs andsh 


are known, whilst the longest side is unknown. Now, we take tho 
equares of each of the two sides zs and 6h and add them together. 
This gives 
287, 704, 466, 674 eighths. 
¥f we take the root of this number, we get 
0° 2' 28” 59” 40T¥., 


which is the distance hetween the two centres, equai to the sine of the 
Greatest Equation. 
Tf we look for the correspondirg are in the Sine ‘Tables, we get 


2° 22' 19” 12” 16rv., 


p. 184 


166 aLeinoxt. 


which ia the Greatest Equation (lacuna) one degree. For half (1) of ha, 
measured by o# as 1 degree, stands in the same proportion to zé as 
(facuna), 

If we, now, want to know how long the line a4 is, if mcasured by 
the line kz as 1 degree, we multiply 24 by 1 degree and divide the 
eum by 4 z plus 1 degree. Thereby we find x 4, as measured by the line 
th, as I dogres, 

For h a, if measured by hi é ay 1 degree, stands in the same proportion 
to a@ as 2h, if measured hy gi as 1 degree, to the sum of ha plus 
1 degree, te. 2 @. 

In thie way the distance between the two centres in its proportion to 
each of tho two diameters, that of the homocentrio and that of the ex- 
centrio sphere, becomes known. 

Further we draw the line @@ at right angles to the diameter a hc. 
Now the two triangles tw A and 2 ¢ & are similar, and their corresponding 


aides are proportional to each other. 
Now, everybody who knows trigonometry knows that in a triangle the 


side a stands in the same proportion to the side Bas the sine of the 
angle opposite the side a to the aine of the angle opposite the side f. 
Therefore 42, which is known, stands in the came proportion to z &, 
which is also known, as the sine of the he right nugle eh, i.e. ht the 
Sinus Totue, to the sine of the angle Gh @, te. the line $%, which we 


wanted to find. 
Finally we compnte this line, as we compute the unknown number 


oa of four numbers which stand in proportion to exch other. So we get 
0° 54’ 34 19” 4gtv. Sov., 
The corresponding are is 
65° 26° 29" 32", 


which is the line a¢, or the distance of the apogee from the vernal 
equinox. And that is what we wanted to demonstrate. 


Hero follows the figure of the cirele. 


10 


20 


30 


10 


OYOLES, YEAR<POINTS, MOLEpS, AND LEAP-MONTHS, 167 


2» 


a 


This is the methed of the ancient astronomers fer the calculation of 
the apogee. Modern astronemers, knowing that it is extremely difficult 
and next to impossible to determine the times of the twe selstices, pre- 
ferred in their ebservations of the four points ¢ b¢ d the middle parts 
of the year-quurtera, te., the middle parts of the Firm Signs (ie. of 
Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Amphera), The method, however, which my 
master ’Abi-Nagr Mangir b. ‘Ali b. ‘Irak, a freedman of the ’Amir- 
almu’ininin, has found out for the solution uf the preceding problem, 
requires the determination of three peinte of the ecliptic, chosen ad 


iditum, and an accurate knowledge of the length of the eolar year. In p. 185 


my Kiléb-alistishhdd bikhtiléf-ala’rsdd I have shown that thie method ie ae 
xuch superior to that of modern astronemers as the method of the latter 
is euperior to that of the ancient astronomers. 

Tf I plunge into eubjects foreign to the plan of this book, it is only 
for the purpece of leading the reader, as it were, about in the gardens of 
wisdom, so as to prevent hie mind and eye becoming weary and getting 
a dislike (to continue the reading of this book). Tet me hope that the 
reader will accept this apology ef mine. 


186 


168 aLpinutx¢, 


Computation of the Taknfoth according to the Jewish System. 
—Novw we return to our eubject and eay: If the Jews want to find the 
year-quarters, te. the Tekifeth of some year, they take the years of the 
Aira Adami, the current year included, and convert them into Solar 
Cyolee (dividing them by 28). As for the mmaining years, they take 
for every single year 80 hours, te. 1} day. Tho number of weeks which 
are contained in thie sum they dieregard, eo as to get finally a number 
of daye leas than seven. These daye they count cither from the begin- 
ning of the night of Wednesday, or they increase them by 3 and count 
the eum from the beginning of the night of Sunday. This brings them 
to the Tekifa of Nisin, i.e, the vernal equinox of the year in question. 

In the preceding we have already explained the intarvale between the 
eingle Tokiféth according to both views, the common and the learned 
one. If, therefore, one of the Tekiféth is known, thereby the other ones 
aro Imown too. 

Their counting the eum of days from the beginning of the night of 
Wednoeday is for no other reason but thia, that come of them maintsin 
that the sun was created on Wednesday the 27th of Tlil, and that the 
Teka of Tishri (autumnal equinox) took place at the end of the third 
hour of the day of Wednesday the Sth of Tishri. Further, they make 
the sun’ travers? the two year-quarters of spring and eummer in 
182d, 15h., in case they do not reckon with mathomatical accuracy, aa 
we have before mentioned. Now, if we convert these 18¢d. 15h. into 
weeks, the days disappear, and we get only a remainder of 15h. If we, 
further, reckon from the Tekifi of Tishri hackward, and we count 
these hours, wo come as fer as the beginniny of the first hour of the 
night of Wednesday. And that is the moment whence the computation 
we have mentioned starts. 

Others among the Jewe maintain that the eun was created in the first 
part of Aries at this exame moment whence the computation of the 
Tekiféth etarta; that ho was in conjunction with the moon, so as to 
form the Méléd of Nisin, 9h. 642H. after the creation. The colar year, 
if not computed with mathematica] accuracy, ie 365} daye. If weconvert 
it into weeks, we get as a remainder 14 day, which is the surplus of each 
TekGfa over the corresponding one of the preceding year (the Character 
of the Tekffa). Therefore we take thie Character for each of the 
cemaining years. If we begin (in the computation of the Tekdféth) from 
the beginning of the Solar Cycle either from the beginning of day or 
night, we come back at the end of the cycle to the same moment whence 
we started. 

According to this mode of calculation we have computed the Tekiféth 
of a Solar Cycle. Now take the years of the Zra Adami, the current 
yeat included, convert them into Solar Cycles which you disregard; the 
remainder of years eompare with the column of the Cycle til] you find 
the corresponding number. Then you find opposite, the interval be- 


20 


80 


10 


30 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLEDS, AND LEAP-MoxTHS, 169 


tween the Tekifa of Nisin and the beginning of the night of Sunday 
in tha current year in question; there you find, too, the next following 
threa Tekifdth and the Dominus Hove, i.e. the presiding planet of that 
hour in which the Tekifé falls. For they mention these Domini 
together with the Tekiféth and call them “ Horoscopes of the Hours.” If 
the houre you get are lees than 12, they are hours of the night ; if they 
are more, they are hours of the day. So you may eubtract therefrom 
12 houra, and ths remainder represents the corresponding hour of the 
day. 


Taste or Textréra. p. 187 


j The intervals ; | 


. between the HT 
! Column of the The Monthsof the ° Tckdféth and | 2#¢ Masters of the Rows; 


| Soler Cycle. Four Tekifduh. the begining sehen yhe TeyArorN 
_ Of the Night of , : 
; Sunday. 
= 
| la H. 
let yeor .[| Nisin. . .°4 18 0. ° Shabhethal. 
Tammuz . -,5 1 540 Py 
a ‘5 = 0 Sédek. 
et . 6 6 540 ” 
Qnd year . | Nisa. . 6 3 Dis Ma’adhim. 
Tammuz - 6 4 ” 
Tishri -+(6 15 0 Hamm. 
Ttbeth -'6 22 540 » 
ard year . = at 2 an ni Nogah, 
‘amomuz a 5 ”» ' 
aes -f0 21 Q Kéakhabh Hamma, « 
ébeth -fl 4 5401 + 1 
4th year . | Nisan . yl rs 0 . Lebbéna. : 
Tammuz ord 9 540 » ‘ 
Tishri -:2 3 © | Shabbethai. 
Téheth -'2 10 540} »» 
Sth year . | Nis&n , - 2 18 O  Sédek 
ae ‘ .,3 1 540, ae es 
i8 A -,;3 9 QO vadhim., i 
Eo ; |3 16 540' ,, 
6th vear . | Nisin . -| 4 0 0 | Hamma. 
Tammuz ~i4 7 540 H ” 
| shat : F 5 0 | Wageh. | 
Ebet ~}4 22 540 ” | 
1 7th year - | Nisan. “| 5.6 = (0 | Kékhabh Hamma. 
7 hemes /8 19 SO} | 
Tishri -'5 2 0 | Tebhiéni. 
; Téheth {6 4 540 _ | 
: 8th year : | tee we ; 12 QO ! Shabhethai. E 
m0 us : 19 540 ” i 
Tiehri 1.0 3 «0 | Stdek. 
Tébeth - © 10 540 ” 


a a 
I ! ° 
H The intervals ¢ 
: between the 
« Tekdfdth an 
| the hegianing 
of the Night of 
Sunday. 


Column of the 
Bolar Cycle. 


9th year 


10th year 


llth year 


12th year 


18th year 


14th year 


15th year 


16th your 


17th year 


18th year 


19th year 


ALRIROeNT. 


The Months of the 
Four Tek‘fsth. 


———_——__. 


Od.) Go OF Gr Oe Ot He eB 60 69 69 09.09 £9 HE tO BO OD GF C2 Gt GT CT He I BOO CO C009 09 09 00 te © fe 


BERaBRNonon a> 


0 
Bo RoR oSoRoRo Sok oR oF oR oF ook fo Koko 


— fat et - an i a _ 
OBR IOSD OH DSWD REO OBEIOROHD 


ow 


ECRORORORO 


a! The Masters of the hours 


jin which the Tekaféth | 


esour. 


Ma’adbim. 
Hamma. 

Nagah. 

Kékhabh Hamm. 
Lebbind. 
Shabbetbat. 
Stdok, 

Ma’sdhim, 
Hamma. 

Nogah. 

Kékhabh Hammi. 
Lebhand. 
Shabbethai. 
Beaek. 

Ma’adhim, 


Kékbabh Hamma. 


30 


50 


CYCLES, YKAR-POINTS, MOLEDS, AND LEAL-MONTIIS, 


171 


OColamn of the 


Solar Cyole. 


20th year 


Four Tekfifoth. 


Tho Months of the 


The intervale 


Tontoth sear 1 The Masters of the hours 


the beginning 
of the Night of 
Sunday. 


ia whiob the TekAfétb 


occar. 


ee 8 © e ew ew ee 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


Wh Be GO CO OO ND BD BD et et EO DS DOD Od OD CR Ore Cr eh 09 09 CO WO DODD HY OO 
_— 
wo 


EoR oR of of oF of ok oF oF of oF of of oF oF 


— 
=) 
on 
Lo 
eo 


— 
E 


—- 
Be § 


8 0 | Lebhéna. 
540 


a 


Kékhabh Hamma. 


Lebhins. 


Shabbethat. 


Kékhabh Hamm. 


Tebhéni. 
Shabbethat. 
Sédek. 
Ma’adhim. 


Nogah. 


Kékhabh Hammi. 


Signs of the Zodiac.— The names 


Names of the Planets and the 


of the plansta which we have mentioned in the Table of the Tekifith are 
Hebrew names, in which form they are used by them. Each nation, 
however, if they want to mention the planets, must call them by the 
names of their own language. Therefors here follows a table exhibiting 
the namee of the planets in various languages. 
here the Hebrew nzaues which we have mentioned as well as the names 
&0 in other languages. 


The reader will find 


p. 192 


in Arabic 


in Greek 


in Persian 


in Syriac 


in Hebrew 


in Saneerit 


in Chorasmian 


Zuhal 
Kronos 
Raiwin 
eb 
Shabbethat 


Ganaigcara 


Alniushtari 


Zeus 


Hunnued 


Xwo 


Stdek 


Vrhaspati 


ey 


Alnmuirrikh 
Ares 


Bahrim 


Se 
Ma‘adhim 


Maiigala 


cal 


or THE Names or THE SEVEN PLANETS. 


Alshams 


Helos 


Mihr, Khurshid 


Alzuhara ‘Utarid 
Aphrodite Hermes 

Nihid Tir 

wits 30] | ans 

Négah Kékhab Uamma 
Cukra Budha 

pen Re 


Alkamar 
Selenc 
Mah 
Tou 
Lebbéna 
Séma 


ile 


“Ngaye1y 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLRDS, AND LBAP-’MoNTHS. 173 


And now natural relationship (between the plancts and the signs of 
the zodiac) demands, although it is not necessary in this place of our 
hook, nor is it requisite, that we should do the same with regard to the 
signs of ths zodiac which we have done for the planets, zc. construct a 
table containing all that we kuow ef their names in various languages. 
Fer ho who wants this for the planets, wants something of the enme 
kind for the signs of the godiac. 
Here follows the table containing ths names of the signs ef the 
zodiac in various languages. p. 198 


10 | Arsbic, | Greek 


alcaaae 


tee | | Sansorit. ae 


iaies tpi No} insy iia oy 
Althaur |Tatpos | Giiu Tod ra | Vreha AS 
aia ' Q&vpzo. |Dépaikar | WotZ syeel awa oed 
Altav’aman! | 
Alsaratin | Kapxivos eeclies | yen Karkata| elie g 
20 | alosad | Atuy Shir | 3) ‘ix [Sith |é- | 
ae apt | ante i ee) mans | Kany they | 
Al‘adbri : {ota } ' 
Almizin | Zayds |qurazt | 12imso [OMsND | Tula iy { 
Al‘akrah | 3xopméos |Kazhdum) Jo;a% aye | Vrdcile | elegnys 
oe frote | | arta see mee I np se whds 
Alrami od aS 8 
Aljedy | *Aryéxepor |Bahi | baggy “1 | Makara oy 
30 | Aldaly “YGpoxdos | Dol Yo abs | Kuwnhe » 
one {nie Mant =! Yoda a] ‘irs as 
Alsamaka t | 


+ 


17-4 ALBiront. 


p-194 The Author criticizesithe Jewish computation of the Tekufoth.— 
We return to our subject and say: The calculation and tables, given 
iu ths preceding, enable the atudont to find the week day on which 
the Tekifa falls; the corresponding day of the Syrian month, however, 
to which they hring us, differs from real time to an intolerable extent. 

Tet ue eg. take the ra Adami for the let of Tishri, the méléd of 
which falle on Sunday the lst of fiilin the year 1821 of Alexander. 
The number of complete years of the Za Adami ia 


4759 


or B great eycles (8x 582=4256), 26 emall cycles (26x 19=494), and 9 10 
complete years, atrauged according to the Ordo Intercalationis p_ 
fo that six cut of these nine years are common-years and three leap- 
years. 

If we convert this eum of cycles and years into days, we get the 
eum of 


1,788,2008. 7h. 2582 


Thie is the interval between the méléd of the first year of the mu 
Adami and the méléd of the present above-mentioned year (A. Adami 
4759). 

We havo already stated hefore that according to Jewish dogria the 20 
Tekiféth-Tishri, cc. the autumnal equiuox, occurred at the heginning 
of the Ha Adami, 5 days and 1 hour after the méléd of the year. 

If we eubtract theee 5d.1h. from the sum we have got, we get as 
remainder the interval hetween the Tekifath-Tishri of the first year of 
the era and the méled of the present year. 

If we divide this interval by 865}4, we get 


4,758 years 
and a remainder of 

335} days. 
Till this Solar year is complete, and night and day are again equal, 30 
29d. lih. 827E more are reqnired. If we add this numher of days, 
hours,and Halakim to the méléd of the present year, ie, to Sunday 
7h. 2534 of daytime, we advance as far aa the night of Tuesday 9h. 
on the let day of the month 2ushrin Primus. 

Now. this Tekffa falla by 14 days later than the equinox as deter- 
mined by astronomical observation. Such a difference, even if it be 
wuch less, is quite intolerable, althongh popular use may be hased 
upon it. This popular use we have illustrated hy our table according 
to the theory of the Jews. 

Tf we, furtber, take this interval between the firet Tekifa and the 40 
méOléd of the present year, &.s. 


1,788,195d. 6h. 2588, 


175 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLADS, AND LEAP-MNONTHS, 


98,496, 


which is the number of fractions of one day of their Solar year (of 


and multiply it by 
R, Adda), we get the sum of 


171,280,305 


(Great lacuna.) 


Methods showing how to find the beginning of a year of any Pp. 195 


era, 


Tasie or tHE Beornninos OF THE Syriac anv Greex Monrus. 


sareet-deory 4 e cel i Rt | 4 


‘soqme;dag | ‘any | GUE AD COA G8 09 HAD Rt GY ED DKON 00 ND CD 1 OU OF HOES 


| “ywauny | ‘aqy WOAAOHORMAWOON WON clon ONN me 


| £0 | “roan | 860 MDD 60 WD LO OU OO EO A OY HD OE OY OD HAD rt 


‘oung | SORE RAO HOON HORNA WON cle Han role © 


-£uyy | ayes, | PRR AANMORAAMHOATO PONTE ON AE 


nteady | apa | ADVON MOH HOMAATORA ATONE HORT 


90x95 | ‘spupy | CRADHON MOO ONMDEOONAD HORM OHS 


ae feel DA OR AT DON AOE OAK ON aan ON oF 


ssequoseg | “Tapers | DG HAD NG 89 HD EN rd GY OAD EO OD ADO ON ED HO 
“aaquaeaoy | ” "IT Uy | DRA BHN MOD OON MOHD BONM ae 


| -soamag | -yupyery | NA PON MATSON AF NAO OR MO Hor 


mac BON DOHA BONR DASHA WB tO Be 00 
sis Sr See ON OAS HIT WORD 


‘epoLp 
| 2718 9q} 30 pena 


10 
20 
80 


p. 196 


176 ALBinesf, 


If we want. tu know the same for the Aya Augueti (ic. to find the 
week.day on which u year of this era commences), we take its com- 
plete yoars and add chereto } of them. To this sum we add 6 and 
divide the whole by 7. Thereby we get the Signum (of the weekday) 
of the Ist of That. 

To this Signum we add 2 for each complete month that has elapsed 
hefore the date you want to find, and the gum ws divide by 7. Thereby 
we find the Signum of the month we seck. 

The Icap-years ara in this cra arcertained in this way, that we add 
1 to the number of the complete years and divide the sum by 4 If 
therc is a remainder, the owrrent year is not a leap-year; if there is 
vo remainder, it is a leap-year. 

If we want to know thea same for the re Axtonini, we increase its 
complete years by } of them, and to the sum we add 43. Then we 
make the same calculation (as for the ra Augusti). 

The leap-years in this era are ascertained iu this way, that we add 3 
to its complete years and divide the sum by 4. If there is no remainder, 
the year is a Jeap-year; if there is a remainder, it is a common-year. 

As regards the Zra Diocletiani, we add toits years } of them, and to ths 
sum ws add 4}. With the remainder, and in order to find the be- 
ginnings of the single months, we reckon in the same way as we have 
done for the Bra Alerandri according to the Greek system. 

The leap-year iu the Hra Dioelctiant is ascortained in this way, that 
we add 2 to its complete years and divide the sum hy 4. If ther is no 
remainder, the year is a leap-year; if thera is a remainder, it is a 
common-year. 

If we want to Jears the beginnings of the years and months of the 
Aira Fuge by chronological computation, we take its complete years 
and write them down in three places. The first we multiply by 354 days, 
the second by 22 minutes, and the third by I second. To the number of 
minutes we add 34 minutes. Then we convert the three sums in the 
three places ‘nto wholes. If the minutes arc more than 15, we add 
them as one whole; if they are less, we drop them. The sun we get 
represents the time which has elapsed between the heginning of the 
4ra. Fuge and the heginning of the year in question, consisting of 
days. We add 5 to them and divide the sum by 7. Now, the rs- 
mainder of less than 7 is the Signum of Muharram. 

If we want to learn the Signum of another month, we take for the 
months, which have clapscd before the month in question, alternately 
for one month 2 days, for the other 1 day, and the eum we add to the 
Signum of Muharram. The whole we divide by 7, and the remainder is 
the Signum of the month in question, as determined by chronological 
computation which is hassd upon the mean motion of tha moon. 

Ths computation according to the appearance of new-moon is a subject 
the exposition of which would be both of great length and difficulty and 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


CTCLES, VRAR-PoINTS, WALRDS. AND LEAPeMONTIS. 177 


weuld require difficult caleulations and umoucrous tables. It is sufficient 
to know what on this subject is seid in the Caxoa of Muhammad bh, 
Jahiv Atbattani, and in that one of Habash the mathematician. In ease 
of necessity the stndent may consult thei. 

The same principle we have explained has been adopted be the sect 
who elaim to have esoteric ductrines und represent themselves as the 
party of the Family (of ‘Ali). So they have produced a calentation 
which they maintain to he cue of the mysteries of propheer. It is this: 

1f yon want to know the beginning of Ramadan, take the complete 
years of the Hijra, multiply them by 4 and add to the sim i and } 
(i.e. 23) of the number of years, If in both these portio:s (iu | and } of 
the year of the Hijri) you get a fraction, add it as one complete day to 
the other days, if one of them or both together are more than half the 
denoniinator of either of the two fractions (Land '), Then ada to the 
sum 4and divide the whole by 7. The remainder beyond 7, which von 
get. is the Signun. Ramadgini. 

This calculation is based upon what we have mentioned. For if 
you divide the days of each Lunar year, i.e. 354 days, by 7, you get as 
remainder 4, If therefore the years of the Hijra are multiplied by 
4, it is the same as if the days of each year and the remainders (7.2. 
the 4 days which remain, if von divide 354 by 7) were converted into 
weeks. 

Farther, to take } and 3 of the years of the Hijra is the same 
as if you wonld tnke + dav and 4 day for each single year. So this 
method of taking $ and 4 of the years comes to the same thing as if yon 
multiplied each year hy _ aud } day wid divided the products by the 
denominators of the two fractions (i.c. 5 x 6=30). 

If, therefore, the whole is divided by ? and the remainder is counted 
from Friday, which is the beyimning of the .£in Fuge, we come to 
the Signum Mukarrami. And if we add thereto 6 and count the sum 
from Sunday, the matter comes to the same result. 

Further, the reason why those people add 4 is this, that yon get— 
by alternately taking 2 dars for one month and 1 day for the next one— 
till the beginning of Ramadan the sum of 5 days. If you add these to 
the Signin Mrharrami, you get the Siyauue Ramoddai, Having already 
added 6 fur Muharam and vombiuing with it the 5 davs, which are 
necessary for the time till Ramidiv, rou get a total of 11 days. Sub- 
tract ? and you pet as remainder 4; this is what remains of the sum 
of the two additions (¢¢, the addition of 6 days for the purpose of 
postponing the epoch of the era from Fridav to Sunday, aml the 
addition of 5 days for the pw'pose of converting the Sigzaan Mikarrami 
into the Signum Ramaddazi). 

The two’ computations, the one which is counted from Friday, the 
other—mentioned shortly before—which is counted from Thursday, agree 
with eacb other, for this reason, that in the former case the 34 minutesare 


12 


p.ly?, 


p-198. 


178 aneirtnt. 


summed to onc day, whilst in the latter case nenc of the fractions are 
raised to a whole. 

This apd similar modes of computation have heen adopted by the 
followers ef this new theery in this sect, who are known in Khwirizm 
as the Bighdidiyya sect,so called from their founder, 4 Shaikh who 
lives in Baghdad. J have found that one of their leaders has taken the 
Jaduel-Mujarred (i.e. the pure table, divested of any accessory}, which 
was constructed by Habash in his Caxan for the purposs of correcting 
the method ef dating empleyed in astronemical calculations. Now this 
sectarian has added to each uumber of the table, t.e.the Signum Mukarrami, 
6, for the reason just mentione?d ; further he hss altered ths shape of the 
table, giving it—instead of the perpendicular form of a tahle—the form 
of a screw-like train, similar tos wound-up serpent, a3 some people in 
Tabaristin bave given it the form of a circle, in which the beginning 
and the end ef the number: meet together. 

He has also followed the example of the people (of the same sect) in 
composing a hook in which he abuses those who want to find the new. 
meon by observation ; he attacks them and blames them, saying thut for 
both Christians and Jews it is rendered superfluous by their tables 
to observs new-meon for the determination of their fast-days and the 
beginnings of their months, whilst Muslims trouble themselves with a 
subject of so dubious a character (as the observation of new-meon), 
But if be had read farther (in the book of Habash) beyond that place 
where the Jadwal-Mujarrag occurs, as far as the chapter of the astrono- 
mical methods for the observation ef new-moon, if he had acquainted 
himself with their nature and with the real character of the practices of 
both Jews and Christians, he would have learned that that which they 
have sdepted is obscurity itself. 

Perhaps he who is acquainted with our preceding explanations will 
find out ths truth of this. For astronomers agree that the assumed 
measures in the most difficult parts of the practice of the observation of 
new-moon are certain distances which cannot he asceriaized except by 
experiment. Besides, the obscrvations themselves are subject te certain 
circumstances of a geometricai nature, in consequence of which that 
which is ebserved by the eye differs in greatness and smallness. A 
man who considers astronomical affeirs with an unbiassed mind could 
not decide against the necessity of the observation ef mew-meon nor 
against its possibility, particularly when new-moon eccurs near the 
end of that distance which has been assumed. 

Here follows the screw-figure (bere given in the form of 2 common 
table) which has been trausformed out of the Jadwal-Mujarrad. 


10 


20 


30 


40 


So 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLES, (NP LEAP-MONTHS, 179 


Tanne showing on what Weer-Dars the Siwanu Yuars of the Cyctx 
of 210 Lunar Years commence. 


lee BA 
ne ‘98 | ; : t 
iyegsa§ ! : I 1 . 
Bein gey 4. B [ala A BoA BIA Bj ALR | 
igh ae 5 } i ' 1 1 
iBgeseg ae 
is & r ! H : | ; aes 
( 1 ! ; 1 : : i 
/2 tay o330om te} ya miy fo|miasi 1 fae] va | 
;2: 4 2, VI | G2] iv] 92, VW |; 122, Vil. 162) V ) 18 ly i 
© 3 + VI ,33)] IV (63/7 93 vil | 123 V ; 153 | HI) 188 1; 
i 4; It gt, 1 }ot) vi] onl avy ise! wy lasirvir tise} v 
i 5 (¥o 35; V fesjaum| 3] 1 | 335 | vi isa! relies ou 
1g iv¥ _ 36 | 1m 66} 1 { 96] VI} 126) IV. 156, 0 | 386 } VI 
i? ; W  s7ivirle7| Vv | 97) a! ie7i 1 | 157; Vij 187!) IV 
' 8 !vi:ss|iv!es}| mf} og | vit] 128) ¥ f1ss! an} iasi T 
‘9 ! iv30/ tM feof vuy 99 v | 129! am. i909] 1 | 180! VE 
,10 } 1 740] Vi} 70] 1V} 1v0f{ mt | 130, Vil: 16o] V | 190 | IIE 
pli Vv | 4 yj 71} 1 | ior} vt} 131] IV | ter} ar | 19 | vir 
iw! Wy; 42] 1 | 72] vi | 103; IV | 182, TI } 182) viT| ine} V 
113° VI | 43 V | 73) 112) 103) 1 | 138] VI) 163) 1¥ | 193) 11 
414 ov | 4a] us| 7s] 1 | ios] vi] aaa] iv | 133 Tl ‘193 | vir 
i. W {454 VN{73| v {10s} ml {iss} 1 (i637 vr | 195} Iv 
| is : VE | 46] 1V | 76] 12 | 106 | Til] 136] V ! 16s] 111] 196] 1 
ply iv | a Ws) 774} vir] 307} V 1137 { I | 1675 1 | 197) VI 
qe i y jas} vif{7s] iv} 108) a | 138: vit iies| Vv | agg | Il 
iis ¥ '49) It | 79] 1 | 109 | Vij 3 | IV }169; 0 , 199! VN 
{20 * 11 160) 1 \80) WE) Tio) IV [140] 1.17) Va, 200° ¥ 
say ivi sat vi faryam} qi! ao pagii vi dam! iv ido, Um 
-220 «VO S62, WL | ee] 7 fi | V1} 142, IV 172) Il 7 202, Vn 
23006Cct:osg tvit iss] vo laug! am 18 | 1 1193) vi | 203 ! Iv 
p24 Wa : St {Iv PBs) | es Wit dae] Volare] an - 204] 1 
(25 IV 86! oles, Vries; V [asian 175| 1 ! 205, vi 
;26 1 1 756i VI j/s6, IV 116 11 | 136, VI 176' V . 206) Il 
oy! ov ‘sz: anfez{ 1 py vi} rz: iv 177: 1 1207! vir 
28 , WI 58) 1 |88) VI jng IVjH8 W178 VN 203 =F 
29 ' VII 59! V |89] mi}]ia9i § } 149 Vi 179 IV 909° 
|g Iv 
bY 


| 80; 1 f 90) vii wo Vi}iso NE wot | el aaa 


In the original Arabic this table is arranged im tha form of a screw. In the 
longitudinal fields of the screw there isa steady progression of both numbers, the 
numbers of the years rising by 21, the numbers cof the week-days rising by 1. For 
instance, in tho field of the frst yeara the years rise in this war :— 


1, 22. 43, 64. 85. 106. 127. 148. 169. 190. (1. 22. 43. etc.) ; 


and the wosk-days rise in this way :— 
IV. V. V. VI. VH. VIII. 11. II. II. (Vv. V. ate), 


12 * 


180 aunintyt. 


Considering that in the Jadwa? Mujarrad produced by Habash the 
sage in his canon kmown as ths Canon Probatue Qacuna). This man 
whom wa heve montionad, transferred thence the screw-figuro (into his 
work), adding five in places where Habash had sdded the fractions aa 8 
whole day to the other days, which be ought not to have done. His 
method is the sams for the Tabula Mediorum, so that by this he waa 
preserved from arror. 

Let bim who wants to ascertain ths truth of our words compare this 
sersw-figure—for it is the Jadwel-Mujarrad itsslf, only increased by 5 so 
as to represent the Signum Ramaddni—with the Corrected Table which 
we bave computed for the Siguum Mudarrami. The fractions following 
after the whales days we havo also noticed, wishing that they should 
come under occular inspection, and so afford a help also for other 
things, 

If you use this corrected table, subtract always 210 from the years of 
the Hijra, inolnding the cnrrent year, if their number bs more than 210. 
With the romainder compare the column of the numbers and take tha 
days and minutes which you find opposite in the corresponding square. 
Add to the minutes 5 days and 34 minutes, and convert them into 
whole days. Eliminate ths 7,if tha number is more than 7, and you 
got the Signwm for the Ist of Muharram. If you add thereto 5, you 
get the Signum of Ramadan. 

The result of this computation compare with the screw-figure. For 
in somes dates there is a difference on account of the conversion of the 
minntes under 60 into days. 

It will bs clear to the reader why ths tabls has heen constructed for 
210 years, and uot for a less or larger number of years, if he studies the 
subject thoroughly. 


God is all-wise. He is our sufficiency and our help ! 


10 


20 


181 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLEDS, AND LEAP-MONTHS, 


Tee Cornrcten Taszz. 


eee set eeag* ages 22° 
=~onrwmeewtnuwoaeonneowrnonmawnano 
ZZSRRBSRSSLRRARAFRRRRSS 
TRAASESS MW SSPRBIRBBRAYE #3 88 ¢ 
Lal 2 oO + © » a be ow OURS UH AOVP MAO OAHMR AO O 
[em | TARSRRERAREERZELEESSESREREREE 
one || AF’ RSSRBRSS*SFSPTRKHAARBRKBTRRABERS RS 
Vag | eee were nme ner em ew Re ea Owe © 
F [Soe ele oi. a ic etote 
ELE LE LLEELELEE EEE EOEERE 
wo | APS SRRARSSS™ SRST RANA SBRITRIAAB ARS 
‘eco | aeownenewnowraneneennownenonuaeorta ® 
wmem,| #eBaRRvReBegeeest i seat FSRSSR Sa 
on | 8 3 ° FASRST"SSTKSBARERKKBSYAFIABSA BS 
BOO | ORR OE SF NB 0S OO ee ee 
ee | et eee eee eee REAR ER Re Sea Ses Se 
com | ASSARLARSS" SSP RSBARRK ATE FA ASE BO 
‘ataq | aoe rp nwnoaowne Tee me ~waoonnhn orn onan 2 O 
-e — 28a| _ eae a or al ee ae ee ee es 


oe) 
Et] 


Be cago ie! BAS REESE eee 
marx | HN F°RBRLARASRASPTRAARRBKEAK SBA A ABS 
wa[ “tem oh ea orn oHeHaevrae nA onee wa eee 
bees ae Se 
yo nuns ae e mom rr ensAseRBsneeseaaak sa Read 2 

= & 8 


sqm | A RRARRERBRBSIASS USS FIR RA SB B 
- 


p-201. 


2,202. 


182 aLBintnt. 


Further, I have found with ’Ahmad bh. Muhammad b. Shibiib, who 
was counted among tho leaders of the Haririyya-sect and one of the 
greatest of their missionaries, the following table, which, be says, ia to 
be used in this way: Take the complete years of the dra Fugw, add 
thereto 4 and divide the sum by 8. The remainder under 7? you compare 
with the column of numbers, and opposite you find the week-day of the 
beginning of whatever month you like. 


TanLe oF THE MontHe. 


ar i Pe | ig |4 
Ald] e/2]3 TA 414 
aida ale asa ald lala [2 
1] 8 5ie6|1 2j4|s rie al ale! 
i 
27; 7/2/81] 6 ek 4 5 7 1 3 
Bisa}, 7}1},a)4's6)] 7 2 3 5 6 1 
4/2}a]5]7 fala 6{ 7] 2/38] 6 
blejailela}erz7z;a] sa] 4] 6] 7] 2 
6/4}56]7]2 sel 1/2} 4] 6] 7 
vlilsijele alas 6 sj; a}als 
8B, ef; r~2,4),5°7:1 Sa el oF an 


This table, too, is certainly derived from the Jadwal-Mujarrad. If the 
student would consider the Octeeeris on which this table is hased, he 
would find that the new-year-daye of the years of this cycle return to 
the same day of the week, that they, however, fall short (of 2 complete 
revolution and return to the same day) by a fraction of 4 minutes. 
Therefore this table does not differ from the corrected Jadwal-Mujarrad, 
except when the Octzeteris in the course of time recurs many times. In 
this case the minus-difference of 4 minutes causes a very disagrecable 
confusion. 

Thie same trickster of a missionary relates that this table was the 
work of Ja‘far b, Muhammad Alsadik at the time when he--so that 
man eays—-explained the difference of opinion and the uncertainty that 
exists among Muslims reganling the month Ramadan. According to 
him Ja‘far said: “I ewear by him who in truth has sent Muhammad 
as a prophet, that He (the prophet) did uot leave his people, before 
he had disclosed before our eyes both the past and the future till the 
end of the world, And the least of this is the knowledge of fasting for 
every year and every day.” Further, he ie reported to havo said: 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


OYCLES, YEAR-Pornts, MGLfps, AXD LEAP-MONTOS. 183 


“Sha‘bin has never beon more—and Ramadin has never been less— 
than 80 days.” 

This melcfactor has invented tales about that wise Lord, the noblest 
of the nobles, the wisest of the Imims—God’s blessing he upon their 
names !—by making him respousible for something that is inconsistent 
with the religion of his ancestor (ze. ‘Alt}. It has been proved that the 
contrary of these assertions is the truth. That pious Iméim was far from 
sullying himself by troditions like those,and never dreamt that he 
would be defiled by their insolence in referring them to his authority 
—God’s blessing be upon him |— 

There are two methods for the finding of the Signum Mukarrami, men- 
tioned by ’Abé-Ja‘far Alkhazin in his Great Introduction to Astronomy: 

I. Take for each complete 30 years of the Ara Hijre which have 
elapsed, 5 days. As regards the remainder of less than 30 years, take 
for sach 10 years 13 days, i.e. 1 dsy 16 hours, For each 5 years of the 
further remainder take 20 bours, and for each complete single year 
take 4 days 8¢ hours. To the sum you get in this way add 5 or subtract 
2. Tho remainder divide by 7, and the remainder you get ia ths 
Signum Mukarrami. 

Thia method is correct, and proceeds in the same way ss tho before- 
mentioned metkuds. For the days and fractions of days that are taken 
for certain numbers of years are the remainders which you get, if you 
convert those years into days and divide them by 7, as the Corrected 
Table shows. 

To the sum we add 5, in order to make the days begin with Sunday, 
as we have mentioned hefore. It is the ssme whether you add 5 or 
subtract 2,4.e.? minus 5,as long as you use the hebdomadal cycle, which 
must be adhered to. 

If you want the Signum of any other month (d4t Muharram), add to 


80 the Signum Mukarrami 2 days for cach month whose number in the 


order of months is an odd one, and 1 day for each month whose number 
isan even one. Divide the sum by 7, aud the remainder is the Signum 
of the month in question. 

If. Ths second method is this: Take half of the number of years, if 
it is an even number; if it is an odd one, subtract I therefrom, and keep 
in mind for it 4d. 22min. (i.e. make «mental note of it), Then take 
the half of this remainder of years and put it into two different places. 
Multiply this number in one place by 3, and divide it by 4. So yon get 
days. In the other place multiply it by 8, and add the sum to the 
numher of days, with the addition of 5. From the sum subtract a 
number of day.minutes which is equal to half the number of the years. 
With the remainder combine that which you have kept in mind (4d. 22.), 
if the years are without a fraction. But if there is a fraction of more 
than 30 minutes, count it a3 a whole; if it is less, omit it. Divide the sum 
by 7, and the remainder is the Signum Mukarrami. 


p-203. 


184 aLeinont. 


This mcthod, i00, is correct, and hased ou the ciremustances we hava 
mentioned. 

That which you keep in mind (44. 22') is the intercalatory portion of 
the year which you subtract from the total sum of years, the remainder 
which you get after having divided 354d. 22’ by 7. 

To multiply the hslf of the remaining years (ze. after the sub- 
traction of 1, in case the number of years be an odd one) hy 8, is tha 
éame aa to divide tha whcele by 4. Theso 4 days are the whole daye 
which you get by dividing the Lunar year by? (854d. 22’: 7, re- 
mainder 4). 

Finally you take 4 and } day, ie. 43 or 23 day for cach year, How. 
ever, the half of 2 (z.e. 2) of any number is more than 2+ (ie.44) of the 
whole number by a measure (a quantity) which amounts for the whole 
numher to the eame as @ corresponding number of sixtieth parte (or 
minutes) for half the number (¢.e. for the whole number z thie plue- 
difference is +3,27, which is the same as ‘; of 32). If you, therefore, 
multiply half of the number of years by 3 and divide the product by 4, 
you get Zof the number, which is more than 4+ (23) of the whole 
number of years by a number of minutes which is equal to half the 
number of yeare. If they, now, are counted in 60th parts, i.e. in minutes, 
and you eubtract them from the sum, you get 4 and 4 (3%) of tho years. 
The analogy of the other parts of thie calculation with what we have 
before mentioned is evident. 

If wo want to find the Signum of the new-year’s day of a year of tho 
ra Yazdagirdi, we take the number of complete yeara and add thereto 
alwaye 3. Ths eum we divide by 7, and the remainder of this division 
is Signum of Farwardin- Mah. 

If we want to know the Signum of another month, we take for each of 
the complete months, that have passed, 2 days, except Aban-Mih, for 
which we take nothing. The sam we add to the Signum of Farwardin- 
Mah, and subtract 7, if the number be more than seven. Tho re- 
mainder is the Signum of the month in question. 

For the Zra Magorum, the epoch of which is the death of Yazdagird, 
woe add always 5 to the number of complete yveare, and fhe remainder 
we compute in the same way as we have done for the preceding era, 
in cage we uso for this era the Persian months. But if ws use the monthe 
of the Sughdiane or Khwérizmians, we alwaye add 3 to the number of 
complete years, and divide the sum hy 7. As remainder we get the 
Signum of Nausard or Néusdejt. For each following month we add 2 
days to the Signum Nauscrdi. In this way we find the Signum of 
the month in question. 

Tf wo want to kuow the intercalation, ae practieed hy tha Persians 
before the decline of their empire, we take the Persian years from tho 
end of the reign of Yavdagird, which event ie the cpoch of the Bra 
Magorum, and add thereto 70, for the reason which we have mentioned 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


CYCLES, YEAR-POINTS, MOLRpS, AND LeEaP-sUNTUS, 185 


in the first. part of this hook. The sum we divide by 120. 'The qnotient 
is the number of interealations that ought to have been earricd out 
since the timc when they comnienced to neglect intercalation. Now we 
take for the total sum of the years of the era a number of months 
corresponding to the number of intercalations, If, then, these months 
make up complete ycars, without giviug a remainder, the rear is a leap- 
year approximately, for there is confusion in their chronology. But 
if there ie a remainder of months, the year is a common year. There- 
upon we add the leap-months we have got to the begiuning of the year 
in question, and we find Nauréz on that day to which this calculation 
brings us. So Nauréz comes again to be therc, where it used to be 
in the time of the Kisris, when it used to coincide with the summer- 
solstice as calculated hy their astronomical tables. 

For the Zra of Almu‘tadid we find the Signum of Farwardin-Mah by 
adding to the complete sears } of them, aud to the sum 4}. The whole 
we divide by 7, and the remainder is the Signum of Farwardin-Mih. 
Knowing the Siguum of New-year’s day of a year, and wishing to find 
the Signum of some other month, we add for each month that has 
paseed 2 days, except Abin-Mah, for which we take 1 in a leap-year and 
nothing in a common year. The sum we divide by 7, and the remainder 
js the Sigaun of the month in question. 

The leap-years of this ert you find by dividing its complete veare 
hy 4, If there is no remainder the year isa leap-year; if theraisa 
remainder it is a common-ycar. 

Now we think that this long exposition will be sufficient. Much 
praiss be unto God, aa is due to Him ! 


p.204, 


186 atbirint. 


CHAPTER VIII. 


ON THE BRAS OF THE PSEUDO-PROPHETS AND THEIR COMMUNITIES 
WHO WARE DELUDED BY THEM, THE CURSE OF THE LORD EB UPON. 
THEM ! 


We shall explain the method of dating the eras by the pseudo-prophets. 
For in the intervals between the prophets and kings whom we hava 
mentioned, pseudo-prophets came ferwetd, the number and history of 
whem it would be impossible to detail in this book. Some of them 
perished witheut having gained adherents, net leaving anything behind 
them but a place in history. Whilst others were followed by a 
community who kept up their institutes and used their method of 
dating. It is necessary, therefore, to mention the eras ef the most 
notorious among them, for this affordsa help, also, for the Imewledge 
of their histery. . 

Budhasafi—The first mentioned is Bédhdsaf, who came forward in 
India after the lst year of Tahmtrath. Hs introduced the Persian 
writing and called peeple to the religion of the Sibians. Whereupon 
many people followed him. The Péshdidhian kings and seme of the Kayi- 
nians who resided in Balkh held in great veneration tha sun and meon, 


10 


tho planets and the primal elements, and worshipped them as hely 20 


beings, until the time when Zuridusht appeared thirty years after the 
accession of Bishtasf. 

The remnants of those Sibians are living in Harrin, their name (1.¢. 
Alfarriniyya) being derived frem their place. Others derive it from 
Hirin b. Terah, the brother of Abraham, saying that he ameng their 
chicfs was the most deeply imbued with their religion and its most 


, tenacious adherent. Ibn Sankild (Syncellus), the Christian, relates in his 


beok which hy, intending to refute their oreed, stuffed with lies and 


1o 


20 


80 


ON THE ERAS OF THE PSEUDO-PROPHETS. 187 


futile stories, that Abraham left their community simply because leprosy 
appeared on his foreskin, and that everybody who suffered from this 
disease was considered impure, and excluded from all socicty. There- 
fore he cut off his foreskin, i.e. he eireumcised himself. In this state 
he entered one of their idol-temples, when he heard a voice speaking 
to him: “O Abraham, you weut away from us witb ono sin, and you 
return to us with two sius, Go away, aud do not again come to us.” 
Thereupon Abraham, seized by wrath, broke the idols in pieces, and left 
their commutity. But, after having done it, he repented and wished 
to sacrifice his son to the planet Satura, it being their custom to sacrifies 
their children, as that author maintains, Saturn, however, on seeing 
him truly repentant, let him go free with the sacrifice of a raw. 

Also ‘Abd-almasth b. "Ishik Alkindi, the Christian, in his reply to 
the book of ‘Abdallah b. ‘Isniil Albishiuui, relates of them, that they 
are notorious for their sacrificing human beings, but that at present 
they are not allowed to do it in public. 

All, however, we know of them is that they profess monotheism and 
describe God as ezempt from anything that is had, using in their 
description the Via Negationis, not the Vie Positionis. E.g. they say “he is 
indeierminable, he is invisible, he docs nué wrong, he is no? unjust.” 
They call him by the Nomina Pulcherrima, but only metaphorically, since a 
real description of him is exelnded according to them, The rule of the 
universe they attribute to the celestial globe and its bodies, which they 
consider as living, speaking, hearing, and sccing beings. And the fires 
they hold in great consideration. 

One of their monuments is the cupola over the Bfikrid beside the 
Makgitra in the great Mesque of Damascus. It was their place of 
worship 28 long as Greeks and Romans professed their religion ; ufter- 
wards it passed into the hands of {he Jews, who made i¢ their synagogue. 
Then it wasoccapied by the Christiaus, who used it ag their church till the 
time of the rising of Islam, when the Muslims made it their Mosque. 

They had temples and images, culled by the names of the sun, the 
forms of which are known, aud the like of which are mentioned by 
‘Abu-Ma‘shar Albalkhi in his book on the houses of worship. For 
instance, the temple of Ba‘al-bek was sacred to the idot of the Sun. 
The city of Harrin war attributed to the moon, it being built in the 
shape of the moon like a. Zailasin. Closo to larrin there are another place 
called Selemsin, its ancient name being Nanam-sin, i.e. imago Lane, ond 
another village called Teru‘-‘éz, ic. Porta Veneris. People say, too, that 
the Ka’ba and ita imeges originally Lelonged to them, and tbat the 
worshippers of those hnages belonged to their community, and that 
Alkth was called Zuhal aud Aluzz?, Alzuhara. 

They have many prophets, most of whom were Greck philosophers, e.g. 
Hermes tha Egyptian, Aguthodemon, Wiilise, Pythayoras, Bibi, und 
Sawiix the graudfuther of Plato on the mother’s side, and others. Seno 


0,206, 


188 ALBinent 


of them did not allow themselves to eat fish, fearing it might bo a 
S2urua Klectricva, nor chickens because thay are always feverish, nor 
garlic because it produces headache and burns the blood or tha spenna 
genitale on which the existence of the world depends, nor peas becausa 
they stupify and impair the intellect and originally grew in tho skull of 
man, 

Thoy havs thres prayers in writing, ons for the tims of aunriss with 
eight inclinations, the second immediately hefore the aun leaves tha 
centre of heaven (the meridian) with five inclinations, the third at sun- 
set with five inclinations. Each of the txctinations at their prayer 
consists of three prostrations. Besides, they have voluntary prayers, 
ona in tha second hour of ths day, another in ths niuth hour of tha 
day, and a third one in the third hour of the night. Their prayer is 
preceded by purification and washing. They also wash themaslves after 
a pollution, They do not circumcise themselves, not heing ordered to 
do so, as they maintain. 

Most of their regulations about women and their penal law are 
eimilar to thors of the Muslims, whilst others, relating to pollution 
caused hy touching dead hodies, etc., are similar to those of the Thora. 

They offer oiferings to the stars, their images and temples, aud 
Practise sacrifices carried out hy thcir priesta and seducers. By this 
means they elicit the knowledge of the future of the man who offera the 
offering, and the answer to his inquiries. 

Idris, who is mentioned in the Thora as Henokh, they call Hermes, 
whilst according to others Hermes is identical with Bidbiasaf. 

Again, others maintain that the Harriinians ars not the real Sabisna, 
but those who ars called in the books Heathens and Idolaters. For 
the Salians are the remnant of the Jewish tribes who remained in 
Babylonia, when tis other tribes left it for Jerusalem in the days of 
Cyrus and Artaxerxes. Those remaining tribes felt themselves at. 
tracted to the rites of the Magiana, and so they izclined (were inelined, 
4.e, Sabi) towards the religion of Nebukadnezzar, and adopted a system 
mixed up of Magism and Judaism like that of the Samaritans in Syria. 

The greatest number of them ars settled at Wisit, in Sawad-al‘irak, 
in the districts of Ja‘far, Aljimida, and the two Nahr-algila. They 
pretend to be the descendants of Enos the acon of Seth. They differ 
from the Herrinians, blaming their doctrines and not agreeing with 
them except in few matters. In praying, even, they turn towards the 
north pole, whilst the Harranians turn towards tha south pole. 

Some of thosa to whom God has given a divine code Wawa and 
Christians) say that Methuselah had another son besides Lamech, whe 
called himself Sébi’, and that the Sabiana derive their name from him. 

Beforo the first establishment of their rites and ths appearance of 
Bidhisaf people were Xapavaln, inhabiting the eastern part ef the 
world aud worshipping idols. The remnants of them are at pre- 


10 


20 


80 


40 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON THE ERAS OF THE PSECDO-PROPHETS, 189 


sent in India, China, and among the Teyhazyhar; the people of 
Khurasin call them Shamandn, Their monwneuts, the Bakéras of their 
idols, their Farkhuiras are stillto be seen on the frenticr countries 
between Khurisin and India. They believe in the eternity of time and 
the migration of souls; they think that the globe of the universe is 
flying in an infiuito vacuum, that therefore it has a rotatory motion, 
since anything that is round, when thrown off its place, goes dowuward 
in a circular motiou, as they aty. But others of them believe that the 
world has heen created (within time), and maintain that its duratiou is 
one million of years, which they divide into four periods, the first of 
four hundred thousand years, the Aurea Mias. 


(Grent Ieeuno. The end of the chapter ou Biadhasaf, the 
whole chapter on Zaraditsht, and the heginning of the 
chapter on Bardaigiin are missing.) 


So he gets the sum of 3,457. We think they will dispute with us on 
the astronomical interpretation we propose, fer we, as well as themselves, 
are familiar with the science uf the subject. Therefore any arguing on 
the subject and any interpretation arc altogether devoid of sense. 

What we have just mentioned regarding the division is a proof in 
favour of the Egyptians in the mattcr of the Termini. For according to 
them the duration of the Ternvnas of Venns in Pisces is 400 years, 
whilst Ptolemy reckons it as 266 ycars. We have already said before 
that the time between Alexander aud Ardashir is longer than 400 years, 
and have endeavoured to settle this question of chronology. 

We return now to our subject, and go on to state that the Persians 
adhered to the Magian religion of Zaridusht, that they had no schism 
or dissension in it till the time came wnen Jesus rose, and his pupils 
spread through all the world preaching the Gospel. ‘When they thus 
spread throngh the countries, one of them came to Persia, and both 
Bardaisin and Marcion were among those who followed his call and 
heard the word of Jesus. Part they took from him, part from what 
they had heard from Zaridusht. So each of them derived from both 
systems a separate doctrine, containing the dogma of the eternal 
existence of the two Principia. Each of them produced a gospel, tha 
origin of which he traced back to the Messiah, and declared everrthing 
else to be a lie. Ibn-Daigin maintained that the Light of God was 
residing in his own heart. 

The difference, however, did not go so far as to separate them and 
their followers from the bulk of the Christians, nor were their gospels 
in all matters different from that of the Christians ; m some regards 
they contained more, in others less. God knows best! 

Wani.—After Bardaighn aul Marelon, Mins the pupil of Fadarin 
came forward. On having acqnainted himself with the doctrives of 
the Magians. Christians, and Duatists, he procktimed biueelf to be a 


p.207. 


190 ALBIRCNT. 


prophet. In the beginning of his hook called Shdbirvkén, which he 
composed for Shapir b. Ardashir, he eaya: “ Wisdom and deeds have 
alvaya from time to time beea brought to mankind by the messengers 
of God. So in one age they havo heen brought by the messenger, 
called Buddha, to India, in another by Zarfidusht to Persia, in another 
by Jesus to the West. Thereupon this revelation has come down, this 
prophecy in this Inst age through me, Mani, the messenger of the God 
of truth to Babylonia.” In his gospel, which he arranged according 
to the twenty-two letters of the alphabet, he saysthat he is the Paraclete 
announced hy Messiah, and that he is the seal of the prophets (i.e. the 10 
last of them). 

His doctrines regarding the existence and the form of the world are con. 
tradicted by the results of scientific arguments and proofs. He preached 
of the empire of the worlds of light, of the Iparos “AvOpumras, and of 
the spirit of life. He taught that light and darkness are without 
beginning and end. He absolutely forbade his followers to slaughter 
animals and to hurt them, to hurt the fire, water, and plants. Ho 
establisbed laws which are obligatory only for the Siddiks, ic. for the 
aaints and ascetics among the Manichwans, viz. to prefer poverty to 
riches, to suppress cupidity and lust, to abandon the world, to be 20 

208. abstinent in it, continually to fast, and to give alms as much as possible. 
He forbade them to acquire any property except food for ona day 
and dress for one year; he further forbade sexual intercourse, and 
ordered them continually to wander ahout in the world, preaching his 
doctrines and guiding people into the right path. 

Other Jaws he imposed upon the Sammdé (laymen), tc. their followers 
and adherents who have to do with worldly affairs, viz. to give as alms 
the tithe of their property, to fast during the eeventh part of life-time, 
to live in monogamy, to befriend the Siddiks (saints), and to remove 
everything that troubles and pains them. 30 

Some people maintain that he allowed pederasty, if 3 man felt ni- 
clined, and as proof of this they relate that every Manichean used 
to he accompanied by a young, beardless and hairless servant. I, how- 
ever, have not found in what I have read of his booke a word indicating 
anything of this kind. Nay, even hie life provee the contiary of thie 
assertion. 

Mani was born m a village called Mardin’ on the upper canal of 
Kutha, according to his own statement in his book Shibiirkan, in the 
chapter on the coming of the prophet, in the year 527 of the cra of 
the Babylonian astronomers, ic. the Zva Alezondri, in the 4th year of 40 
the king Adharbién. He received the firat divine revelation in hia 
18th year, Anno Astronomorum Babylonie 639, in the 2nd year of 
Ardashir, the King of Kings. Thia part of chronology we have 
already tried to correct in the chapter preceding that of the duration 
of the rule of the Ashkinians and the Afulék aljawt’ yf. 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON THE BRAS OF THE PSEUDN-PROPRETS. 191 


According to Yahya b. Alnu‘min, the Christian, in his book on 
the Magians, Mini was called hy the Christiane Corbicixs the son of 
Patecius. 

When he camo forward, many people believed in him and followed 
him. He composed many books, his gospel, the Shibirkin, Kanz-al’ihyd 
(Thesaurus Revivicationis), the Book of the Giants, the Book of Books, 
and many treatises. He maintained that he had explained tn extenso 
what had only heen hinted at hy the Messiah. 

Manichwiem inereased by degrees under Ardashiy, his son Shipir 
and Hurwuz b. Shapir, until the time when Bahrim b. Hurmuz 
ascended the throne. He gave ‘orders to search for Mini, and when 
he had found him, he said: “This man has come forward calling 
people to destroy the world. It will he necessary to begin by de- 
stroying him, before anything of his plans should be realized.” 

It is well known that he killed Mant, stripped off his skin, filled it 
with grass, and hung it up at the gate of Guudisfipi. whieh is even 
still known as the “ Mani.gate.* Hnrmnz also killed a number of the 
Maniecheans., 

Jibri’'tl b. Noh, the Christian, says in his reply to Yasdiinbakht’s 
refntation of the Christians, that one of Mini's pupils composed a hook, 
in which he relates the fate of Mini, that be was pnt in prison on 
account of a relative of the king who helieved that he was possessed by 
the devil; Mant had promised tu cure him, but when he could not effeet 
it, he was ehained hand and foot, and died in prison. His bead was 
exposed before the entrance of the royal tent, and his body was thrown 
into the street, that he should be a warning example to others. 

Of his adherents, some remnants that are considered as Manichewan 
are still extant: they are scattered throughout the world and do not 
live together in any particular place of Muhammadau countries, exeept 
the community in Samarkand, known hy the name of Stbians. As 
regards non-Muhammadan countries, we have to state that most of 
the eastern Turks, of the people of China and Thibet and some of the 
Hindus, adhere still to his law and doctrine. 

Regarding their prophet Mini they hold two different opinions, 
one party uaintaining that he never worked a mircle, and relating that 
he only informed people of the signs and wonders indicative of the 
coming of the Messiah aud his companions, whilst the other party 
maintains that he in fact worked signs and miracles, and that the king 
Shaptr came to helieve in him when he had ascended with him towards 
heaven, and they had heen standing in the air hetween heaven and 
earth. Mian, thereby, made him witness a miracle. Besides, they 
relate that be sometimes used to rise to heaven from among his com- 
paniona, #0 atav there for seme days. and then to r-fescend to them. 

I have heard the Ispahhadh Marzuban hen Rustam say that Shapir 
banished him out of his empire, faithful to the law of Zaridueht which 


p.209. 


210. 


192 ALvintnl, 


demends the expulsion of pseudo-pruphets from the country. He 
imposed upon him the obligation never to return. So Miini went off to 
India, Chiua, and Thibet, and preached there his gospel. Afterwards 
h_ returned, was seized by Babram and killed for having broken the 
stipulation, as he bad therehy forfeited his life. 

Mazhdak,—Thereupon came forward a manealled Afozhdak ben Hame- 
daddn,a native of Nasi. He was Maubadhdn-Maubadh, ie. chief-justice 
during the reign of Kobiidh ben Féréz. He preached Dualism aud 
opposed Zaridusht in many points. He taught that hoth property 
and women helonged in common to all. So he found innumerable 
followers. i 

Kobadh, too, helieved in him. But some of the Persians maintain 
that his adhesion was a compulsory one, since his reign was not safe 
against the mass of the followers of Mazhdak. According to others, 
again, this Mazhdak was a cunning sort of man, who managed to 
concoct this system, and to come forward with it simply because he 
Imew that Kohidh was charmed by a woman who was the wife of his 
cousin ; and that for this reason Kohiidh hastened to adopt it. Mazhdak 
ordered him to abstain from sacrificing cattle before the natural term of 
their lif: hud come. Kobidh said: “ Your enterprise shall not succeed 
unless you make me master of the mother of Andshirwin, that I may 
enjoy her.” Mazhdak did as he wished, and ordered her to he handed 
over 


(Lacune. Missing, the end of Mozhdak end beginning 
of Musailima.) 


Musailimsa.—* To Mnhammad the Prophet of God. Greeting unto 
thee! etc. God has made me partake with thee in the rule. One half of 
the earth belongs to us and one half to Kuraish But the Kuraish 
are evil.doing people.” This letter he sent off with two messengers. 
To these the Prophet said: “‘ What is it you are speaking?’ They 
answered: “We are speaking just as He spoke.’ Thereupon the 
Prophet said: “If it was not the custom net to Ill messengers, [ 
should hbebead botb of you.” Then be gave them his answer: “From 
Muhammad the Prophet of God to Musailima the liar. Greeting unto 
those who follow the right guidance! ete. The earth belongs to God, 
he gives it as an inheritance to whomsoever of his servants he pleases. 
And the end vill he in favour of the pious.” 

The people of Yamama let themselves he deluded by him bp such 
tricke as introducingan egg that had been scaked in vinegar into a glass. 
hottle, by fitting together the wings of birds, which be had previously 
cut off, hy means of similar feathers; and hy such-like humhug and 
swindle. 

The Bani Hanifa kept possession of Yamima until Musailima was 
killed by Hhilid tu. Alwalid in the year when ‘Abi-Bakr Algiddik 


10 


20 


30 


Ww 


20 


80 


ON THE ERAS OF THE PSEUDU-PROPHETS. 1938 


succeeded. Then they lamented his death iu verses; ons of the Bani 
Hanifa saya: 
* Alas for thes, o’ Aha-Thumims! 
[Thou wast] like the sun heaming forth from a cloud.” 


Before Musailima in the tims of heathendom the Band Hanifa had 
gotan idol of aie (i.e. a mixture of dates, butter, and dried curd), which 
they worshipped for a long time. But onee, being pressed by hunger, 
they dovoured it. So post of the Bani Tamim said : 

* The Bank Hanifa have eaten their Lord for hunger, 

From which thoy were suffering already a long time, and from want.” 


Anather said : 
“The Hantfas have eaten their Lord 
At the time of want and hunger. 
They did not guard against the punishment, 
Which their Lord might inflict upon them.” 


Bahafivid b. Mahfrcadhin.—Therenpon in the days of ’Abt-Muslim, 
the founder of the ‘Abbaside dynasty, came forward a man called 
Bahéfiria ten Méhfuridhin in Khwif, one of the districts of Nishaptir, 
ina place called Siriwand, being a native of Zizan, In the beginning 
of his career he disappeared and betook himself te China for seven 
years. Then he returned, and brought with him among other Chineso 
curiosities a green shirt which, when folded up, could be held in tha 
grasp of a human hand ; so thin and flexible was it. He went up toa 
temple during the night, und when he thence descended in the 
morning, he was observed by a peasant who was plonghing part of 
his field. This man he told that he had been in heaven during his 
absence from them, that heaven and hell had heen shown unto him, 
that God had inspired him, had dressed him in that shirt, and had 
sent him down upon earth in that same hour. The peasant believed his 
words, and told people that he had witnessed him desceuding from 
heaven. So he found many adherents among the Magians, when he 
came forward asa praphet and preached his knew doctrine. 

Ha differed from the Magians in most rites, but he believed in 
Zarddusht, and claimed for his followers all the institutes of Zariidusht. 
He maintained that he secretly received divine revelations, and he 
established seven prayers for his followers, one in praise of the one 
God, ons relating to the creation of heaven and earth, one relating to 
the creatiou of the animals and to their nourishment, one releting 
to death, one relating to the resurrection and last judgment, one 
relating to those in heaven and hell and what is prepared for them, 
and one in praise of tha people of paradise. 

Ha composed for them a book m Persian. He ordered them to 
worship the substance of the sun, kueeling on one knee, and in praying 

13 


pall. 


194 ALBirinf. 


always to turn towards the sun wherever he might he, to let their hair and 
locks grow, to give up the Zamzama at dinner, not to sacrifice small 
cattle except they be already decropit, not to drink wine, not to cat 
the fleah of animals that have died 2 sudden death as not having 
hecn killed according to prescription, uot to marry their mothers, daugh- 
tera, sisters, nieces, uot to exceed the eum of four hundred dirhama as 
dowry. Farther, he ordered them to keep roads and bridges in good 
condition by means of the seventh part of thciy property and of the 
revenue of their lahour. 

When ’Ahi.Muslim cane to Nishapir, the Maubadhs and Herhadhs 
assembled before him telling him that thie man had infected Islim 
aa well as their own religion. So he sent ‘Abdallah b. Shu‘ba to fetch 
him. He caught him in the mountains of Bidaghis and brought him 
before ’Abd-Muselim, who put him to death, and all bis followers of 
whom he could get hold. 

His followera, called the Bahdfiridiyya, keep still the institutes of 
their founder and strongly oppose the Zumzamis among the Magiane. 
They maintain that the servant of their prophet had told them that 
the prophet had ascended into heaven on a common dark-brown horae, 
and that he will again come down to them in the same way as he 
ascended and will take vengeance on his enemica, 

Almukanne'.—Therenpon came forward Hashim b. Hakim, known 
by the name of Almufanna‘, in Marw, in a village called Kawakimar. 
dan. He used to veil himself in green silk, because he had only one 
eye. He maintained that he was God, and that he had incarnated 
himself, since hefore incarnation nobody could see God. 

He passed the river Oxus and went to the districts of Kash and 
Nasaf. He entered into correapondence with the Khikan and qolicited 
his help. The eect of the Mubayyida and the Turks gathered round 
him, and the property and women (of his enemies) he delivered up to 
them, Killing everybody who opposed him. He made obligatory for 
them all the laws and institutes which Mazhdsk had established. 

He scattered the armies of Almabdi, and ruled during fourteen yeare, 
but finally he was besieged and killed a.n. 169, Being eurrounded 
on aJl eidea he burned himself, that his hody might be annihilated, and, 
in consequence, hia followers might see therein a confirmation of his 
claim of heing God. However, he did not succeed in annihilating his 
hody ; it was found in the oven, and his head was cut off and sent 
to the Khalif Almahdi, who was then in Halab. 

There is still a sect in Transoxiana who practise hia religion, but 
only accretly, whilst in public they profess Islam. The history of 
Almukanna‘ I have translated from the Persian into Arabic; the 
subjects has been exhaustively treated in my history of the Mubayyida 
and the karmatians. 

Alhallaj.—Thereupon came forward a Sifi of Persian origin, called 


10 


20 


30 


40 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE ERAS OF THE PSEUDO-PROPHETS, 195 


Alkucain ben Mansitr Alfallij. He waa the first to presch the coming of 
Almahdi, maintaining that he would como from Tilekiin in Dailam. 
They seized upon him and led him into Baghdad, parading him through 
the streets. Then he was put into prison, but he contrived to get cut 
of it fagain. He was a juggler and artful sert of man, mixing himself 
up with every human being according to hia helicf and hia views. 
Further, ha preached that the Holy Ghost was dwelling in him, and 
he called himself God. His lettera to his followers bers the following 
superecription: “ From the He, the aternal, the firat He, the heaming 
and shining light, the original erigin, the proof of all proofs, tha Lord 
of the Lords, who raises the clouds, the window frem which the light 
shines, the Lord of the Mountain (Sinai), who is repressnted in every 
shape—to his slave N. N.” And his followers began their letters 
to him in thia way: “Praises unte thee, O being of all beings, the 
perfection of all delights, O great, O sublime being, I bear witnass 
that thou art the eternal creator, the light-giver, who reveals him- 
aelf in every time and age, and in this our time in the figure of 
Alhusain % Manstir! ‘Thy slave, thy wretched and poor one, who 
seeks help with thee, who flies for refuge to thee, who hopes for 
thy mercy, O thou who knowest all mysteries!—apeaks thus and 
thus.” 

He compesed books en the subject ef his preaching, e.g. the Kztdb- 
Miir-Avasi, the Kité-Jamm-Alakbar and the Kitdb-Jamm-Alage 
ghar. 

a4. 301, the Khalif Almujtadir-billih laid hands upon him; he 
ordered the exeeutioner to give him a thousand lashes, to cut off his 
hands and feet and io behead him; then they beaprinkled him with 
nafta and burnt his body, and threw the ashes into the Tigris. 
During the whole exccution he did net utter a syllable nor distort his 
face nor move his lips. 

A remnant of his follewers whe are called after him is still extant ; 
they preach the coming of Almahdi, and say that ha will issue from 
Talakan. Of this same Mahdi it is said in the Kitéb-Almaldim 
that he will fill the earth with justice as it heretofore has been 
filled with injustice. Somewhere in the book it is said that he will be 
Muhammad b. ‘Abdallah, eleewhere that he will he Muhammad b. 
‘Ati. Nay, when Almukhtir b. ’Abi-‘Ubaid Althakefi called people 
to rally round Muhammad b. Alhanafiyya, he produced as a teslimony 
an authentic tradition, and maintained that this was the predicted 
Mahdi. 

Even in our time people expect tha Mahdi to come, believing that 
he is saliva and resides in the mountain Badwa. Likewise the Banf- 
*Umayya expect the coming of Alanfyant who is mentioned in the Maléhim. 
In that heek it is alse mentiened that Aldajjal, the seducer, will issue 
frem the district of Isfahan, whilst astrelogere maintain that he will 


153 * 


p.212. 


196 aLatrényt. 


issue from the island of Bavj.7’i? four hundred and sisty-aix yeare after 
Yazdagird ben Shahryir. Aleo in the Gogpe) you find mentioned the 
eigna that will foreahow his coming. In Greek, in Christian booke, he ie 
called 'Avrixpwros, as we learn from Mir Theodorue, the Bishop of 
Mopsueete, in his commentary on the Gospel. 

Histeriane relate that ‘Umar ben Alkhattab on entering Syria was 
tet by the Jewe of Damascue. They epoke thue: “Greeting to thee, 
O Farik!) Thou art the Lord of Mlia. We adjure thee by God, do not 
return until you conquer it.” He aeked them as to Aldajjal, whereupon 
they anewered: “He will be one of the tribe of Benjamia. By God, 10 
you, O nation of the Arabe, yor will kill him at a distance of ten to 
twenty yards from the gate of Lydda.” 

In the times after Alhallaj the Karmatiane roee into power. ‘Abi- 
Tihir Sulaimfn b. 'Abi-Sa‘id Alhasan b, Bahram Aljannabt marched out 
and reached Makka s.n. $18; he killed in an atrocious way the people 
who were passing round the circuit of the Ka‘ba, and threw the corpeea 
into the well Zamzam; he carried off the garmenta and the golden 
implements of the Holy Houee, and deetroyed ite aqueduct; he took 
away the black stone, amashed it, suspended it afterwardsin the Mosque 
of Kiifa, and thon he returned home. 20 

213, Ibn Abi-Zakariyya—On the Ist Ramadin a.m. 319 came forward 
Ion 'Abi-Zakariyyd, a native of Tamim, a young man of bad character, 
a malo prostitute. He called upon people to recognise him ae the Lord, 
and they followed him. He ordered them to cut open the etomachs of 
the dead, to wash them and to fill them with wine; to cut off the hand of 
everybody who extinguished the fire with his hand, the tongue of every- 
body who extinguished it by blowing; to have intercourse with young 
men,—but with this restriction, ne justo magis penem imimitterent. Lf 
anybody infringed thie rule, he should he dragged on hie face over a 
distance of forty yards. Those who would not practise pederasty were 30 
Killed by the butcher. He ordered them to worship and honour the 
fires, he cursed all the prophets of former times and their companivne, 
for they were “ artfai deceivers and on the wrong path,” and more of that 
sort, which I have sufficiently related in my history of the Mubayyida 
and the Karmatiane. 

T such a conditon they remained during eighty daye, till God gave 
him into the power of that man who had originally brought bim 
forward. He slaughtered him, and eo their echemes turned back upon 
their own necke. 

If, now, this be the time which Jam4sp and Zarédusht meant, they 40 
are right as far as chronology ie concerned. For this happened at the 
end of Ara Alozandri 1242, ie. 1,500 yeara after Zarédusht. They are 
wrong, however, as regards the restoration of the empire to the 
Moagiens. Likewiae "Aht-‘Abdallih Al‘Adt las been mistakon, 2 may 
who ia etupidly partial to Magiam and who hopee for an age in which 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE ERAS OF THE PSEDNO-PROPARTS. 197 


Alki’im ig to appear. Fer he has compesed a buek on the cycles and 
conjunctiens, in which he says that the 18th cenjunction since the 
birth of Muhammad coincides with tho 10th wmillenvium, which is 
presided ever by Saturn and Sagittarius. Now he maintains that 
then a man will come ferward whe will restore the rule of Magism; 
he will eccupy the whole world, will de away with the rule of the 
Arahe and others, ho will unite all mankind iu one religion and under 
one rulo; he will de away with all evil, and will rulo during 7} con- 
junctions. Besides he asserts that ne Arabian priuce will rule afier 
that one who is ruling in the 17th conjunction. 

That time yvhich this mau indicates must of necessity refer to 
Almuktafi and Almuktadir, but it has not brought about thoze vrepts 
which, according to his prophecies, were to have taken place after their 
time, 

People say that the Sasanian rule existed during fery conjunctions. 
Now, the rule ever Dailam was seized by ‘Ali b. Buwaihi called ‘Imid- 
aldaula during fiery conjunctions. This is what people uscd te pro- 
mise each other regarding the restoration of the rule to the Persians, 
although the doings ef the Buwaihi family were not like those of the 
ancient kings. 

Ide not know why they preferred the Dailamite dynasty, whilst the 
fact of the transitus into a fiery Trigonon is the most evident proof 
indicative of the Abbaside dynasty, who are a Khurdsiint, an eastern 
dynasty. Besides, both dynasties (Dailamites as well as Abbasides) are 
alike far from renewing the rule of the Persians and farther stil] from 
restoring their ancient religion. 

Before the appearance of that youth (Ibn ’Abi Zakariyya&) the 
Karmatians believed in seme dogmas of the Esoterics,and they were 
censidered as adherents of the family of the blesscd House (of 
‘All), They promised each other the coming of him who is ex- 
pected to come during the ?th conjunction under a fiery Trigonon, 
a0 that ’Abé-Tahir Sulaiman b. Alhasan says on 1°; subject: 

“The most glorious beneft I bestow on you will be my return to 
Hajar. 

Then, after a while, verily the news will reach you. 

When Mars rises from Babylonia, 

When the Two Stars have left him, then beware, beware ! 

Is it not I who ie mentioned in all the scriptures ? 

Ts it net I whe is desorihed in the Stra Alzumer ? 

I shall rule the people of the earth, east and west, 

As far as the Kairawin of the Greeks, te the Turks and Chazars. 

And I shall live until the coming of Jesus the son ef Mary, 

Then he will praise my exploits and approve of what he ordered. 

Then, ne doubt, my dwelling-place will be in paradise, 

Whilst the cthers will burn in fire and hell.” 


p.214. 


198 auBints, 


Thereupon came forward a man called Ibn ’Abi-Akaadhir b. ‘Ali b. 
Shalmaghiin. He maintained that the Holy Ghost was dwelling in 
him, and composed a book which he called The 61% Sense, relating 


to the abrogation of the rites. 
(Phe end of this chapter and the beginning of the following are missing.) 


10 


20 


199 


CMAPTER IX. 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE PERSIANS. 
(Parwardin-Mah.) 
(i. Nauréz,) 
. . . and he divided the exp among his companions, and said, 
“O that we had Nauréz every day!” 

A philosopher of the Hashwiyya-school relates that when Solomon the 
son of David had lost his geal and his empire, but was reinstated after forty 
days, he at ouce regained his former majesty, the prinees came before 
him, and the birds were busy in bis service. Then the Persians said, 
“ Naurvz dmadh,” ie. the new day has come. Therefore that day was 
called Nauroz. Solomon ordered the wind to carry bim, and so it did. 
Then a swallow met him,and said, “O king, I have got a nest with 
hittle eggs in it. Please, turn aside and do not smash them.” So 
Solomon did, and when he again desvended to carth the swallow came 
bringinj: some water in his beak, which he sprinkled before tho king, 
and made him a present of the foot of a locust. This is the cause of the 
water-sprinkling and of the presents on Nanréz. 

Persian scholars say that in the day of Nauréz there is an hour in 
whieh the sphere of Féréz is driven on by the spirits for the purposo of 
renovating the creation. 

The happiest hours of this day are the hours of the sun. On its 
morning, dawn is the shortest possible, and it is considered as a good 
omen to lock at this dawn. It is a “preferable” day because it is 
ealled Hurmuz, which ig the name of God who has created, formed, 
produced, and reared the world and its inhabitants, of whose kindness 
and charity nobody eould describe even a part. 

Satid b. Alfadl relates: Un the mountain Dama in Fitrs every night 
of Naurdz there is observed a far-spreading and strong-shining light- 


p.225. 


276, 


200 ALBiRONI, 


ning, whether the sky be clear or covered with clouds, in every stats 
of the weather. 

Still more curious than this are the fircs of Kalwadhi, although 
ene does net feel inclined te believe the thing witheut having seen it. 
*Abi-alfaraj Alzanjini, the mathematieian, tcld me that he had 
witnessed it together with a number ef other people whe went to Kalwadhi 
in that year when ‘Adud-aldaula entered Baghdidh, and that 1 sre 
are iannmerahble fires and lights which appear on the west side of 
the Tigris, opposite Kalwidhi, in that night with the morning of which 
Nauréz begins. The Sultin had thore posted his guards ta find out 
the truth im order net to be deceived by the Magians. All, however, 
they found out was this, that as scen as they came nearer to the fires 
they went farther off, and as scon as they went away the fires came 
nearer. Now I said te ’Abi-Alfaraj, “The day of Nauréz recedes 
from its proper place in consequence of the Persians neglecting 
intercalation. Why, then, does notthis phenomenon remain back hehind 
Nauréz? Or if it is not necessary that it should remain hebind, did 
it then fall earlier at the time when they practised intercalation?” 
Upon whieb he could not give a satisfactory answer. 

The charm-mengers say: He who thrice sips heney on Naurdz in 
the morning hefore speaking, and perfumes his room with three pieces 
of war, will bs safe against all diseases. 

Que Persian scholar adduces as the reason why this day was called 
Nauréz, the following: viz. that the Sfhians arose during the reign of 
Tahmirath. When, then, Jamshid succeeded, he renovated the religion, 
and his work, the dato of which was a Nauréz, was called New.Day. 
Then it was made a feast day, having already hefcre been held in great 
veneration. 

Another account of the reason why it was made a feast day is this, 
that Jamshid, on having obtained the carriage, ascended it on this 
day, and the Jinng and Déws carried him im one day through the air 
from Dahitwand to Babel. Now people mado this day a feast day 
on account ef the wender which they had seen during it, and they 
amused themselves with swinging in order to imitate Jamshid, 

Another report says that Jam was going aboutin the country,—that hie, 
when wishing to enter Adharlaijin, sat ou a golden throne and was 
thus carried away by the men on their necks. When, theu, the rays of 
the sun fell on him and people saw him, they did homage to him and 
wore full of joy and made that day a feast day. 

On Nauréz it was the custom for people to present cach other sugar. 
Accerding to Adharbfdh, the Mantadh of Baghdfdh, the reason is this, 
that the sugar-cane was first discovered during the reign of Jam on 
the day of Naurdz, having before been unknown. For Jan on seeing 
a juicy cene which dropped some of its juice, tasted it, and found that 
it had en agreeable sweetucss. Then he orlured the juice of the sugar. 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN TITE MONTIS OF THE PERSIANS. 201 


cane to be pressed ont and sugar to be made thereof. It was ready 
on the fifth day, and then they mnde each other presents of sugar. 
The same was also the custom on Mibrjin. 

They have adopted the time of the summer-solstice as the beginning 
of the year for this reason in particular, that the two solstitial-points 
are casier to be asceriained by the help of instruments aud hy observa- 
tion than the equinoctial poiuts, for the former are the heginniny of 
the advance of the sun towards one of the two poles of the universs 
and of his turning away from the rame pole. And if the perpendieuvlar 
shadow at the summer-solstice is observed, and the level shadow at the 
winter-solstice, in whatsoever place of the carth the observation be made, 
the observer cannot possibly mistake the day of the sulstice, though ho 
may be entirely ignorant in geometry and astronomy, because a varia- 
tion of the level shadow takes place notwithstanding the small amount 
of declination, if the Heiyat is considerable. On the other hand the 
two equinoctial days canuot be ascertained, unless you have found 
beforehand the latitude of the place and the Gexervl Declination. And 
this nobody will find out unless he studies astvonumy and has profited 
something thereby, and kuuws how to place and how to use the instru- 
ments of observation. 

Therefore the solstitial points are better adapted for marking the 
beginning of the year than the equinoctial points. And as the sunmuer- 
solstice is nearer to the zenith of the northern countrics, peoplo 
preferred it to the winter-solstiee ; for this reason, moreover, fhat it is 
the time of the ripening of the corn. Therefore it is more proper to 
gather the taxes at this time than at any other. 

Mauy of the scholars and sages of the Greeks observed the horoseope 
at the time of the rising of Sirius and commeuced the yvar at that time, 
not with the vernal cquinox, because the rising of Sirius coincided iv 
bygone times with this solstice, or occurred very near it. 

This day, I mean Nauréz, has receded from its original proper place, 
so that in our time it coincides with the sun’s centering the sign of Aries, 
which is the heginning of spring. Whence it has )eeome the custom 
of the princes of _Khuriisiin on this day to dress their warriors in spring 
—and summer—dresses. 

On the 6th of Farwardin, the day Khurdidh, is the Great Nauréz, 
for the Persians a feast of gvcat importance. On this day—they say— 
God finished the ereation, for it is the last of the six days, mentioned 
before. On this God created Saturn, therefore its most Iueky hours 
are those of Saturn. On the seme day—they say—the Sors Zara- 
thustre came to hold connuunion with God, and Kaikhusran ascended 
into the air. On the same day the happy lots are distridnted among 
the people of the earth. Therefore the Persians call it “the doy of 
hope.” 

The charm-mongers suy: He who tastes suger on the mourning of 


p.217 


218, 


202 ALBintni. 


this day before speaking, and anoints himself with oil, will keep off all 
sorts of mishap during the greater part of this same year. 

On the morning of t!is day, a silent person with a bundle of fragrant 
flowers in bis hand °s seen on the mountain Bishanj; he is visible for 
one hour and then disszppears, and does not reappear until tho same 
time of the next year. 

Zidawaihi says that the cause of this was the rising of the sun from 
the southern region, te. Afdhtar. For the cursed Iblis had deprived 
eating and drinking of their beneficial effect, so that people could not 
satisfy their hunger nor qnench their thirst; and he had prevented the 
wind from blowing. So the trees withered up and the world was near 
to utter decay. Then came—by the command and under ths guidance 
of God—Jam to the southern region. He marched towards the 
residence of Iblis and of his followers, and remained there for some 
time until he had extinguished that plague. Then people returned into 
a state of justice and prospority and were freed from that trial. Under 
such circumstances Jam returned to the world (ie. Eran) and rose on 
that day like the sun, the ight beaming forth from him, as though he 
shone like the sun, Now people were astonished at the rising of two 
suns, and all dried-up wood became green. So people said réz-t-nan, 
i.e. a new day. -And everybody planted harley in a vessel or somewhere 
else, considering it as @ good omen. “Ever since, it has been the custom 
on this day to sow around a plate seven kinds of grain on seven 
eohunns, and from their growth they drew conclusions regarding the 
corn of that year, whether it would he good or bad. 

On the same day Jamshid issued s proclamation to those who were 
present, and wrote to those who were absent, ordering them to destroy 
the old temples and not to build a new one on that day. 

His behaviour towards the people was such as pleased God, who 
rewarded him hy delivering his people from diseases and decrepitude, 
from envy ard frailty, and sorroxa aud disasters. No being was sick 
or died, as long as he ruled—until the time when Béwarasp, his sister's 
son, appeared, who killed Jam and snbdued hia realm. In the time of 
Jam the population increased at such a rate that the earth could no 
longer contain them ; therefore God made the earth thrice as large as it 
had been before. He (Jam) ordered people to wash themselves with 
water in order to clean themselves of their sins, and to do so every year 
that God might keep them aloof from the calamities of the year. 

Some people maintain that Jam ordered channels to he dug, and that 
the water was led into them on this day. Therefore people rejoiced at 
their prosperity, and washed themselves in the water that was sent 
them (by the channels), and in this respeet the later generations have 
considered it a good omeu to imitate the former ones. 

Others, again, maintain that he who let the water into the channels 
was Za, after Afrisiab had ruined all the dwellings of Eranshahr. 


16 


20 


30 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE NONTAS OF TRE PERSIANS. 208 


According to another view, tho c.use of the washing is this—that this 
day is sacred to Harddha, the angel of the water, who stands in relation 
to the water. Therefore peoplo rose on this day carly, at the rising of 
dawn, and went to the water of tho aqueducts and wells. Freqnently, 
too, they drew running water in a vase, and poured it over thenisclves, 
considering this a good omen and a means to keep off hurt. 

On the same day people sprinkle water over each other, of whieh the 
cause is said to he the same as that of the washing. According to another 
report, the reason was this—that during a long time the rain was with- 

19 held from Eriushabr, but that they got copious min, when Jamshid, 
having aseended the throne, bronght them the good news of which we 
have spoken. Therefore they considered the rain 2 good omen, and 
poured it over each other, which bas remained among them as a 
custom, 

According to another explanation, this water-sprinkling simply holds 
the place of a purification, Sv which people cleansed their bodies from 
the smoke of the fire and from the dirt connected with attending to the 
fires. Besides it serves the purpose of removing from the air that 
corruption which produces epidemic and other diseases, 

20 On the samo day Jam brought forward all kinds of measures; there- 
fore the kings considered his way of counting as of good omen. On the 
same day they used to prepare all the neecssary paper and the hides 
on which their despatches to the provinces of the empire were written, 
and all the doeuments to which the royal seal was to be applied were 
sealed. Such a doeument was called Espidénniisht, 

After tho time of Jam the kings made this whole month, i.e. 
Farwardin-Mah, one festival, distributed over its six parte. The first 
five days were feast days for the princes, the second for the nobility, 
the third for the servants of ihe princes, the fourth for their clients, 

30 the fifth for the people, and the sixth for the herdsmen. 

The man who connected the two Nanréz with each other is said to 
have been Hormnz ben Shépir the Hero, for he raised to festivals all the 
days between the two Nauréz. Besides he ordered fires to be kindled 
on high places, because he considered it a good omen, and for the 
purpose of purifying the air, since they consume all unwholesome 
elements in the air and dissolve and scatter those miasmata that 
produes corruption. 

In these five days it was the eustom of the Kisris that the king 
opened the Nauréz and then proelaimed to all that he would hold a 

40 session for them, and bestow benefits upon them. On the second day 
the session was for men of high rank, and for the members of the great 
families. On the third day the session was for his warriors, and for the p.219. 
highest Maubadhs. On the fourth day it was for his family, his re- 
lations and domestics, and on the fifth day it was for his children and 
clients. So everybody received the rank and distinction he was en- 


204 ALBfroni. 


titled to, and obtained those remunerations and benefits which ho had 
dessrved. When tha sixth day came aud he had done justice to all 
of them, hs celobrated Nauréz for himself and conversed only with his 
epecial friends and thosa who were admitted into his privacy. Then 
he ordered to ba brought before him the whole amount of presents, 
arranged according to those who had presented them. He considered 
them, distributed of them what he liked, and deposited what he liked in 
his treasury. 

The 17th is tha day of Serésh, who first ordered the Zamzamna, ic. 
expressing yourself by whispering, nat by clear speech. For they said 
prayers, praised and celebrated God, whilst handing to each other tha 
food; now, speaking not heing allowed during prayer, they express 
themselves by whispers and signs. Thus I was told hy the geometrician 
Adharkhira. According to another authority, tha Zanzama is intended 
to prevent the hreath of tha mouth from touching the food. 

This day is a blessed day in ovary month, becausa Serésh is the 
name of that angel who watches over the night. He is also said to ba 
Gabriel. He is the most powerful of all angels against tha Jinns and 
sorcerers. Thrice in the night he rises above the world ; then he amites 
the Jinns and drives off the sorcerers; he makes the night shine 
brilliantly by his appearance. The air is getting cold, the water sweet ; 
the cocks begin crowing, and the lust of sexual intercourse begins 
to burn in all animals. One of his three risings is the rising of dawn, 
when the plants hegin to thrive, tha flowers to grow, and the birds to 
sing; when the sick man hegins to rest, and the sorrowful to feel same- 
what relieved ; when the traveller travels in safety; when the time is 
agreeable ; when such dreams occur as wil] be fulfilled one day; and 
when all ange)s and demons enjoy themselves. 

On the 19th, or Farwardin-Réz, there is a feast called Furwardagéin 
on account of the identity of the name of the day and of the month in 
which it lies. A similar feast-day they have got in every month. 


Ardibahisht-Mah. 

On the §Srd, or Ardibahisht-Réz, there is a feast, Ardibahishiagén, 
so called on account of the identity of the name of the month and the 
day. The word Ardfbahisht means “‘ ftreth ta the beat,” or according to 
another explanation, “ the utmost of good.” 

Ardibahisht is the genius of fire and light; both elements stand in 
relation to him, God has ordered bim to watch over these elements ; 
to remove tha weaknesses and diseases by drugs and nourishments; 
to distinguish truth from falsehood, the true man from the liar, by 
means of those oaths that are manifest in the Avasta. 

The 26th, or Ashtadh-téz, is the first day of the third Gahanbir, 
it lasts five days, the last of which is the last day of the month. In 
these days God created the earth. This Gahanbir is called Paitishahin- 


10 


20 


30 


50 


10 


20 


30 


40 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE PERSIAXS. 205 


Gah. The six Gahanbirs, each of which lasts five days, have been 
established by Zoroaster. 
Khnrdidh-Mah, 

The 6th day, or Khurdidh-Réz, is a feast Khurdidhagin, so called on 
account of the identity of the name of the month aud the day. The 
meaniog of tho nama is “the stability of the creation.” Harddhi is 
the genius instructed to watch over the growth of the creation, of the 
trees and plauts, and to keep off all impure substances from the water. 

The 26th, or Ashtidh-Réz, is the first day of the fourth Gahanhiy, the 
last day of which is the last of the month. During this Gahanbar God 
created the trees and plants. It is called Ayathrema-Géh. 


Tir-Mah. 

On the 6th, or Khurdadh-Réz, there is a feast called Cashu-i-nilifar, 
considered to be of recent origin. 

On the 13th, or Tir-Réz, there is a feast Tiragin, so called on account 
of the identity of the name of the month and the day. Of the two causes 
to which it is traced back, one is this, that Afrisiib after having 
subdued Eranshahr, and while besieging Minécihr in Tabaristin, asked 
him some favour. Minécihr complied with his wish, on the condition 
that he (Afrésitb) should restore to him a part of Eriiushahr as long and 
2a broad as an arrow-shot. On that occasion there was a genius 
present, called Isfandimmadh ; he ordered to be hronght a bow and an 
arrow of such a size ag he himself had indicated to the arrow-maker, 
in conformity with that which is manifest in the Avasta. Then he sent 
for Arish, a noble, pious, and wise man, and ordered him to take the Low 
and to shoot thearrow. Arish stepped forward, took off his clothes, 
and said: “O king, and ye others, look at my body. I am free from 
auy wound or discase. I know that when I shoot with this bow and 
arrow J shall fall to pieces and my life will be gone, but I have deter- 
mined to sacrifice it for you.” Then he applied himself to the work, and 
bent the bow with all the power God had given him; then he shot, and 
fell asunder into pieces. By order of God the wind bore the arrow 
away from the mountain of Riyiin and brought it to the utmost 
frontier of Khurisiu between Farghana and Tabaristan ; there it hit the 
trank of a nut-tree that was so large that there had never been a tree 
like it in the world. The distance between the place where the arrow 
was shot and that where it fell was 1,000 Farsakh. Afrdsidb and 
Minécihr made a treaty on the basis of this shot that was shot on this 
day. In consequence people made it a feast-day. 

During this siege Miadécihr snd the people of Eranshahr had been 
anffering from want, not being able to grind the wheat and to hake the 
bread because the wheat was latein ripsning; finally they took the 
wheat and the fruits, unripe as they wera, ground them and ate them. 
Thence it has become a ruls for this day to cook wheat and fruits. 


p-220. 


221. 


206 acBinoxt. 


Accordin,; to another report,ths arrow was shot en tuis day, te 
Tir-Raz, and the festival of this day is the small Tiragiin; on the ether 
hand the ]4th, er Gésh-Réz, is the great Tiragin, that day on which the 
nows arrived that tho arrow had fallen. 

On Tir-Réz people break their cooking-vessels and firc.grates, sinco 
on this day they were liberated from Africiiib aud everybody was free 
to go to his work, 

The second cause of the feast Tiragiin is the following: The Dahki- 
fadkiyya, which means ‘‘the office of guarding and watching over the 
world and of reigning in it,” and the Dahkana, which means “ ths office 
of cultivating the world, of sowing in it, and of distributing it "—these 
two are twins on whom rest the civilization of the world, and its 
duration, and the setting right of anything that is wrong in it. 
The Kitiba (the office ef writer) follows next to them and is connected 
with both of them. 

The Dahifadhiyya was founded by Héshaug, ths Dahkan by his 
brother Waikard. The nams ef this day is Tir or Mercury, who is the 
star of the scribes. Now Héshang spoke in praise of his brother on 
this came day, and gave to him as his share the Dahkana, which is 
identical with the Kitiba. Therefore people mads this day a feast in 
praise aud henour of him (Waikard). On this day he (Hishang) 
erdcred people to dress in tho dreas ef the Scribes andDihkdéns. There- 
fore the princcs, Dihkins, Mauhadha, ete,, continued to wear the dress 
of the Scribes until the tims of Gushtisp, in praise aud honour ef beth 
the Kitdba and Dahkana. 

On the same day the Persians used to wash themselves, of which tha 
reason is this—that Kaitkhusraa, on returning from the war against 
Afrasiiib, passed on this day throngh the territory of Siwa. He went up 
the mountain which overhangs the town, and sat down at a fountain 
quite alene at some distance from his encampment. There an angel 
appeared unto him, whereby he was so territicd that he swooned. About 
that time Wijan hen Jédarz arrived, when the king had already recovered 
himself ; so he sprinkled some of that water on his face, leaned him against 
a rock, and said 2 t.¢. do not be afraid. Thersupon the king ordered 
a town to be built around that feuntain, and called it Mandish, which 
afterwards was altcred and mutilated into Andish. Tver since, it haa 
been the custom of people to wash themselves in this water and in all 


10 


20 


80 


fountain-waters, this being considered a good omen. The inhabitants of . 


Amul go out to the Bakr-alkhazar, play in the water, and make fun, and 
try to dip each other on this day the whele day long. 
Murdadh-Mab. 


On the ?th, er Murd&dh-Réz, there is the feast Murd&dhagin, se 
called on account of the identity of the name ef the menth and the day. 
The meaning of the word Murdadh is “ the everlasting durution of the 


10 


20 


30 


40 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE PERSIANS. 207 


world without death and destruction... Murdidh is the angel appointed to 
guard the world and to produces vegetable food and drugs that are 
remedies against hunger, misery, and discaso. God knows best ! 


Shahréwar-Mah. 


On the 7th, or Shahréwar-Roéz, is the feast Shahréwaragin, so calicd on 
account of tho identity of the name of the month and the day. Shah- 
yéwar means sperma and love. It is the angel who is appointed to 
watch over the seven snbstauces, old, silver, and the other metals, on 
which rests all handicraft, and m consequence all the world and its 
inhahitants. 

Zidawaihi relates that this feast was called .[dhar-cashn, i.e. the feast 
of the fires that are found in the human dwelling-places. It was the be- 
giuning of winter, therefore people used to make great fires in their 
houses, and were deeply eugaged iu the worship and praise of God; 
algo they used to assemble for eating and merriment. They maintained 
that this was done for the purpose of bauishing the cold and dryness 
that arises in winter-time, and that the spreading of the warmth would 
keep off the attacks of all that which is ehnoxious to the plants in the 
world. In all this, their procecding was that of a wan who marches out 
to fight his enemy with a large army. 

According to the Manhadh, Khorshéd Adhar-cashn was the first day of 
this mouth, aud only a feast for the nobility, It docs, however, uot 
belong to the feast-days of the Persians, although it was used in their 
mouths. For it is one of the feast-days of the people of Tukharistin, 
and is a custom of theirs based on the fact that about this time tho 
season altered and winter set in. In this our time the people of Khuri- 
sin have made it the beginning of autumn. 

This day, ie. Mihr-Réz, is the first day of the fifth Gahaubir, the 
last of which is Bahrim-Réz. During this Gahanbar God created the 
eattle. It is called Maidhydirime.Gih. 

Mihr-Mah. 

On the Ist of it, or Hurmuzd-Réz, falls the Second Antuun, a feast 
for the common people, agreeably with what has been before mentioned. 

On the 16th, or Mihr-Réz, there is a feast of great importance, called 
Mihrajan. The name of the day is identical with that of the month ; 
it megns “ the love of the spirit.” According to others, Mihr is the uame 
of the sun, who is said to have for the first time appeared to the world 
on this day ; that therefore this day was called Mihr. This is indicated 
by the custom of the Kisraés of crowning themselves on this day with a 
crown on which was worked an image of the sun and of the wheel on 
which he rotates. On this day the Persians hold a fair. 

People maintain that the special veneration in which this day is held 
is to be traced to the joy of mankind when they heard of Frédidn’s 


p.222, 


i} 


208 aLBirty?. 


coming forward, after Kabi had attacked Aldabhak Bévarasp, expelled 
him and called upon people to do homage to Frédin. Kah! ia the 
same whose standard the Persian kinga adopted, considering it a good 
omen; it was mads of the skin of a bear, or,as othere say, of that ofa 
lion; it waa called Dirafsh-i-Kabiyén, and was in later times adorned 
with jewels and gold, 

On the same day the angela are said to have come down to help 
Frédin. In consequence it hans become a custom in the houses of the 
kings, that at the time of dawn a valiant warrior was posted in tho 
court of the palace, who called at the highest pitch of his voice: 
“O ye angela, come down to tho world, strike the Déwa and evil-doors 
and expel them from the world.” 

On the same day, they say, God spread out the earth and created the 
bodies as mansions for the souls. In a certain hour of this day the 
sphere of Ifranjawi breathes fer the purpese of rearing the bodies. 

On the same day God is asid to have clad the moon in her eplendour 
and to have illuminated her with her light, after He had created heras a 
black ball without any light. Therefore, they say, on Mibrajin tho 
moon stande higher than the sun, and the Inckiset hours of the day are 
those ef the moen. 

Salman Alfarisi has ssid: In Persian times we used to say that God 
has created an ornament for his slaves, of rubies on Nauréz, of emeralds 
on Mihrajin. Therefore these two days excel all other days in the same 
way as these two jewols excel all other jewels. 

Alérinshabri says: God has made the treaty between Light and 
Darknese on Nauréz and Mihrajan. 

Sa‘id b. Alfad] used to say: Persian scholars relate, that the top of 
the mountain Shihin appears always black during the whele length of 
summer, whilst on the morning of Mihrajén it appears white as if 
covered with snow, whether the sky be clear or clouded, in any weather 
whatsoever. 

Alkisrawi relates :~-I heard the Maubadh of Alwutawakkil say: On 
the day of Mihrajan the sun rises in Himin, in the midat between light 
and darkness. ‘Then the souls die within the bodies; therefore the 
Persians called this day Miragén. 

The charm-mongers say: He who eate on the day of Mihrajan a piece 
of pomegranate and smells rose-water, will be free from much mishap. 

The Persian theologians have derived various symbolic interpretations 
from these days, So they consider Mihrajan as a sign of resurrection 
and the end of the world, because at Mihrajan that which grows reaches 
its perfection and has no more material for further growth, and because 
animals cease from sexual intercourse. In the same way they make 
Nauréz a sign for the beginning of the world, because the contrary of 
all these things happens en Navrdéz. 

Some people have given the preference to Mihrajin by as much as 


10 


20 


80 


20 


80 


40 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE PERSIAXS., . 209 


they prefer antumn to spring. In their arguments they chiefly rely 
upon what Aristotle said in reply to Alexander, when ho was asked by 
him regarding them: “O king, in spring the reptiles begin growing, in 
autunm they begin to die away. From this point of view autumn is 
preferable.” 

This day uscd in former times to coincides with the beginning of 
winter, Afterwards it advanced, when people began to neglect inter- 
calation. Therefore it is still in our time tho custom of the kings of 
Ehurasan, that on this day they dress their warriors in autumn—and 
winter—dresses, 

On ths 2lat, or Rim-Raz, is the Great Mihrojdx in commemoration of 
Frédin’s subduing and binding Al-Dabhik. People say, that when ho 
was brought before Frédin he spoke: “Do not kill me in retaliation for 
thy ancestor.” Upon which Frédia answered, refusing his entreaty, 
“Do you want to be considered ag equal to Jam b. Wijahin in the 
way of retaliation? By no means. I shall punish you for an ox, that 
was in the house of my ancestor.” Thereupon he put him in fetters 
and imprisoned him io the mountain Dubijwand. Thcreby people 
were freed from his wickedness, and they celebrated this event as a 
feast. Frédin ordered them to gird themselves with Kustike, to uss the 
Zomzama (speaking in a whispering tone) and to abstain from speaking 
loud during dinner, as a tribute of thanks to God for having again 
made them their own masters with regard to their whole behaviour and 
to tho times of their eating and drinking, after they bad been living in 
fear so long as 1,000 sears. This has come down to posterity as a rule 
and custom on the day of Mihrajan. 

All ths Persians agrce that Bévarasp lived 1,000 years, although some 
of them say that he lived longer and that the 1,000 years are only the 
time of his rule and tyranny. People think that the Persian mode of 
salutation, according to which the one wishes the other to live as long 
as 1,000 years—I mean the words “ Hazy sal baai”—comes down from 
that time, hecanse they thought it was allowed and possible (thata man 
should live 1,000 years) from what they had seen of Al-Dahhak. God 
knows best ! 

Zaradusht has ordered that both Mihrajin and Ram-Réz should bs 
held in equal veneration. In consequence, they celebrated both days 
as feast-days, until Hurmuz b. Shipir, the Hero, connected the two 
days with each other, and raised to feast-days all the days between 
them,as he had done with the two Nauréz. Afterwards the kings and 
the people of Erinshabr cclebrated as feast-days all the days from 
Mihrajan till thirty days afterwards, distributing them over the several 
classes of the population in the same way as we have heretofore ex- 
plained regarding Naurdéz. ach class celebrated ita feast for five 
days. 

14 


p.224, 


210 ALBSRONe. 


Abn. Mab. 

On the 10th, or Abfn-Réz, there is a feast Abdnajdn, co called on 
account of the identity of the name of the month and theday. On 
this day Zau b. Tahmasp ascended the throne; he ordered the channels 
to be dug and to be kept in good preservation. 

On the same day the news reached all the seven xAspara of the world 
that Frédfin had put in fetters Bévarasp; thet he had assumed the royal 
dignity; that he had ordered people to take possession of their 
houses, their families and children, and to call themeelves Kadikhuda, 
ie. master of thir house ; that he ruled over his family, his children, and 
his empire with supreme anthority ; whilst before that, in the time of 
Bévnrasp, they had been in a deserted state, and Déwe and rebels had 
alternately been haunting their houses, without their being able to 
keep them off. This inatitute (that of a Kadhikhuda) has been abolished 
by Alnésir Aufriteh, who made again the rebele partake of the 
Kedhbkhudidom together with the people. 

The last five days of thie month, the first of which is Aechtidh, are 
called Farwardajin. During thie time people put food in the halle of 
the dead and drink on the roofe of the houees, believing that the spirits 
of their dead during these daya come out from the placee of their 
reward or their punishment, that they go to the dishes laid out for 
them, imbibe their strength and suck their taste. They fumigate 
their houeee with juniper, that the dead may enjoy its smell, The 
spirite of the pious men dwe'l among their families, children, and 
relations, and oecupy themselves with their affaire, althongh invisible 
to them, 

Regarding these days there hag been among the Persiana a contro- 
versy. According to some they are the last five days of the month 
Abin, according to others they are the Andergih, i.« the five Bpagomene: 


10 


20 


which are added between Abin and Adhér-Mah. “When the controversy 30 


and dispute increased, they adopted all (ten) daye in order to esta- 
blish the matter on a firm basis, 2s this is one of the chief institutes 
of their religion, and becanse they wished to be carefnl, since they 
were anable to ascertain the real facta of the case. So they called the 
first five days the first Farwardajan, and the following five daye the 
second Farwardajin; the latter, however, is more important than 
the former. 
The first day of these Epagomene is the first day of the sixth 
QGahanbir, in which God created man. It ie called Hamacpafmaédhaém- 
ah, 
The reason of the Farwardsjan is said to be this—that when Cain 
hea killed Abel, and the parents were lost in grief, they implored God 
to restore his eoul to him. God did so on the day Ashtadh of Aban-Mah, 
and the soul remained in him for ten deys. Abel was sitting erect and 


40 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE PERSIANS. 211 


looking at his parents, but it was not allowed tohim to speak. Then his 
paronts collectel—(Missing, the snd of Abdn-Mah). 
(Adhkdr-Afdh.] 

11. Bahdr-dashn, the feast of the Riding of Alkausaj. This day was 
the beginning of spring at the timeof the Kisris. Then a thin-bearded 
(Kauaaj) man used to ride about, fanning himself with o fan to express 
his rejoicing at tho end of the cold season and the coming of the warm 
season, This custom is iu Persis still kept up for fun,} 

Ita most lucky hours are those during which Aries is the horoscope. 


10 People consider the hour of morning as of good omen—I mean the 


20 


30 


charm-mongers—and they maintain that everything that is mentioned 
during this hour exists absolutely. Besides they say that he who tastes 
@ quince and smelle an orange in the morning of this day hefore epeaking 
will be happy during that same year. 

According to Tahir b. Tahir, the Persians, in old times, used to drink 
honey on this day if the moon happened to stand in a fiery station, and 
to drink water if it stood in a watery station, always adapting them- 
selves to the character of the stations of the moon. 

Aléranshahri saya: I heard a number of Armenian learned men relate 
that on the morning of the Foz-day there appears on the highest moun- 
tain, between the Interior and the Exterior country, a white ram that is 
not seen at any other time of the year except aboutthistime of this day. 
Now the inhabitants of that country infer that the year will be prosperous 
if the ram bleata; that it will be sterile if he does not bleat. 

On the morning of the Foz-day the Persians thought it to be a goot 
omen to look at the clouds; and from the fact whether they were clear 
or dark, thin or dense, they drew conclusions as to whether the year 
would be prosperous or not, fertile or barren. 

On the 9th, the day of Adhar, is a feast called Adharéashn, so called 
on account of the identity of the name of the day and the month. On 
that day people want to warm themselves by the fire, for this is the end 
of the winter months, when the cold, at the end of the season, is moat 
hiting aud the frost is most intense. It is the feast of the fire, and is 
called by the name of the genius who has to watch over a!] the fires. 

Zaradusht has given the law that on this day people should visit tha 
fire-temples, and that they should there offer offerings and deliberate on 
the affairs of the world. 


Dai-Mah, also called Rbtr-Mab. 

The first day of it is called Khurram-Rés. This day and the month 
are both called by the name of God, ve, (Hormuzd), ie. a wise king, 
gifted with a creative mind. 

On this day the king used to descend from the throne of the empire, to 
dress in white dresses, to sit on white carpets in the plain, to suspend 
for a time the duties of the chamberlains and all the pomp of royalty, 


14% 


p.225, 


226, 


212 aLnintnt, 


and exclusively to give himself upto the consideration of the affairs of 
the realm and its inhabitants. Whosoever, high or low, wanted to speak to 
him in any matter, went into his presenceand addressed him, nobedy pre- 
venting him from doing so. Besides, hs held a meeting with the Dibkiine 
and agriculturists, eating and drinking with them, and then he used to 
say: To-day I am like one of you. Iam your brother; for the exist- 
ence of the world depends upon that culture which ie wrought by your 
hands, and ths existence of thie culture depends upon government; the 
one cannot exist withont the other. This being the case, we are like twin 
brothers, more particularly as this (royalty and ayriculture) proceeds 
from twin brothers, from Hésbang and Waikard.” 

This day is also called Nwwdéd-Iéz (90 days), and is celebrated as a 
feaat, hecause there are 90 days between this day and Nauréz. 

The 8th, 15th, and 23rd days of thie month are feast-days on account 
of the identity of the names of these days with that of the month, as 
we have heretofore explained. 

The 11th, or Khir-Réz, ie the first day of the (first?) Gabanbar ; its 
last. day is the 15th, or Dai-ha-Mihr. This Gahanbir is called Maidhyé- 
zaremaya-gih. During it God created heaven. 

On the 14th, or Gésh-Réz, there is a feast called Sir-eawi, when people 
eat garlic and drink wine, and cook the vegetables with pieces of meat, 
by which they intend to protect themselves against the devil. The 
origina) purpose of the thing was to rid themselves of their affliction 
when they were oppressed in consequence of Jamshid’s being killed, and 
were in sorrow and ewore that they would never touch any fat. This has 
remained as an usage among them. By that dish they cure themselves 
of the diseases which they attrihute to the influence of the evil spirita. 

The 15th, or Dai-ba-Mihr-Réz, is called yi», when they used to make 
a human-like figure of paste or clay and posted it at the gateways. Thie, 
however, waa not practised in the hougee of the kings. At present this 
custom has been abolished on account of its reeemblance to idolatry and 
heathendom. 

The night of the 26th, or Mibr-Réz, is called, glyy-tjs, and also JSS. 
Its origin is thie, that Eranshabr was separated and liherated from the 
country of the Turk, and that they drove their cows, which the enemy 
had driven away, hack to their houses. Further: when Frédfin bad put 
Bévarasp ont of the way, he let out the cows of Athfiydn (Athwyaina) 
that had been hidden in some place during the eiege, whilst Athfiyan 
defended them. Now they returned to his house, Athfiyau was a man 
of digh standing and noble character, a benefactor of the poor, 
busying himself wiih the affairs of the poor and taking care of them, 
and liberal towards all who applied to him. When Frédin hsd freed 
hie property, people celebrated a feast in hope of his gifts and presente. 

On the same day the weaning of Frédfn took place. It was the first 
day when he rude on the ox in a night when the oz appears which drags 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


ON TRE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE PERSIANS. 213 


the carriage of the moon. It isan ox of light, with two golden horus 
and silver feet, which is visible for an hour end then disappears. The 
wish of him who looks at the ox when it is visible will be fulfilled im the 
same hour. 

In the same night there appears on the highest mountain, as they 
maintain, the spectre of a white ox, that bellows twice if the year is to 


be fertile, and once (if the year is to be bsrren). (Here follows a 
lacuna). 


(28. Feast of the third day, Dsi.] 


Bahman-Mah. 
(2. Bahmanja. 
5, Barsadhak, or Nausadhak. 
10. The Night of Alsadhak.) 


They fumigate their houses to keep off mishap, so that Znally it has 
hecome one of the custome of the kings to light fires on thie night and 
to make them blaze, to drive wild beasts into them, and to send the birds 
flying through the flames, and to drink and amuse themselves round the 
fires. 

May God take vengeance on all who enjoy causing pain to another 
being, gifted with sensation and. doing no harm! 

After the Persians had ueglected intercalation in their months, they 
hoped that the cold would cease st this time, as they reckoned as the 
beginning of winter the 5th of Abin-Mah, and as the end the 10th 
of Bahman-Mah. The people of Karaj called this day 45 a, ie. 
the biting night, on account of its being so cold. 

Another report accounts for the lighting of the fires during this night 
in the following way: When Bivaraap had ordered people to provide him 
every day with two men, that he might feed his two serpents with their 
brains, he commissioned immediately sfter his arrival 2 man called 
Azmi‘il to attend to this. Now, this man wlways used to set free one of 
the two, giving him food, and ordering him to settle in the western part 
of suount Dunbiwand aud there to build himself some sort of house, 
whilst he fed the two serpents with the brains of a ram instead of that 
prisoner whom he had set free, mixing them with the briins of the other 
victim who was killed. When Frédim had conquered Bévarasp, he 
ordered Azmi’il to he fetched and punished in revenge for those whom he 
had killed. Thereupon Azmi’il told him the tale of those whom he had 
set free, speaking the truth, and asked the king to send out a messenger 
with him that he might show them to him. So the king did, and Azma'fl 
ordered those whom he had sect free to light fires on the roofs of their 
houses, in order that their number might be secn. 

This happened in the 10th night of Bahman. Therefor: the messenger 


p.227. 


214 ALBinont. 


said to Azma'il: “ What a number of them thou hast set free! May 
God give thee a good reward!” He retwned to Frédiin and brought him 
his report. Frédin exceedingly rejoiced at the matter, and set ont 
himeelf for Dunbféwand to see the thing himself. Thereupon he con- 
ferred great honour upon Azm&’il, he gave him Dunbawand as a fief, 
made him sit on a golden throne, and called him Maeneghén. 

Regarding the two serpents of Bévarasp, people say that they came 
out of hia shoulders, feeding upon brains; whilet according to another 
view, they were two painful wounds which he besmeared with brains, 
hoping to get relief from them. 

The two serpents are ecmething wonderful—poseible, indeed, but 
hardly likely. For worma are produced out of flesh, and in flesh lice 
and other animals are living. Further, there are other animale that do 
not entirely leave their birthplace, like that one of which people relate 
that it, living in India, peeps out of the womb of ite mother to eat grase 
and then to retorn, that it does not leavethe womb of its mother 
entirely until it has grown etrong and thinka itself able to run faster 
than its mother, even if the mother should run after it; then it jumpa 
out and ransaway. People say that the young animal fears the tongus 
of its mother, which is the roughest thing imaginable. For the mother, 
if she finde the young one, licke it continually, until the flesh is severed 
from the bones. And out of the hair of the head that has been torn 
out together with its white root which oricinally ie fixed in the flesh, 
enakes prow, in caee the hair falls into water or come wet place in the 
midst of eummer, growing within the time of three weeks or lesa. 

This fact cannot be denied, eince it has been witnessed, and the forma- 
tion of other animals out of other materials has also been witnessed. 

*Abd-‘Uthman Aljabiz relates, that he eaw at ‘UkLari a piece of clay, 


, ons half of which was a part of the body of a field-mouee, whilet the 


other half was etill a common and unchanged piece of clay. I have 
heard this aleo from a number of people in Jurjan who had observed 
something similar in that country. 

Aljeihani relates that in the Indian Ocean thera are the roots of a tree 
which epread along the aea-coaat in the sand, that tho leaf is rolled up 
and gets separated from the tree, and that it then changes into a king. 
hee and flies away. 

The formation of ecorpione out of figs and mountain-balm, that of 
heee from the flesh of oxen, that of warpe from the fleeh of horeen, ia 
well known to all naturaliets. We ourselvee have observed many 
animals, capable of propagating their epecies, that bad originally grown 
out of plente and other materials by a clear procese of formation, and 
who afterwards continued their epecies by eexual intercourse. 


The 22nd, or Bidh-Réz, is called by this oame (lecena). 


10 


20 


80 


40 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE FESTIVALS IX THE MONTHS uf THE FEKsIANS. 215 


On that day certain usages are practised m Knmm and neighhourhood 
that have a likeness to those festive customs of drinking and making 
fun which are practised at Ispahin in the days of Nauréz, when people 
hold a fair and celebrate a feast. At Ispahiin people call it «3%. How- 
ever, Bidh-Roéz is only one day, whilst yxy5 lasts a whole week. 

The 80th, or Anéran, is called frijagén at Ispahin, which means 
“ pouring out the water.” Its origin is this: that once in the time of 
Féréz, the grandfather of Anishirwin, the rain was kept hack, and 
people in Erinshabr suffered from harrenness. Therefore Férdz remitted 
them the tazes of these years, opened the doors of his storehouses, 
borrowed money from the properties of the fire-temples, and gave all to 
the ijahahitants of Branshahr, taking care of his subjects aa a parent 
does for his children; and the consequence was that during those years 
nobody died of hunger. Now, Féréz went to the famous fire-temple in 
Adharthird in Pars ; there he said prey ers, prostrated himself, and asked 
God to remove that trial from the inhabitants of the world. Then he 
went up to the altar and found there the ministers and priests standing 
hefere it. They, however, did not greet him as is due to kings. So be 
felt that there was something the matter with the priests. Then he went 
near the fire, turned his hand and arms round the flame, and pressed it 
turice to his hosom, as one friend does with another when asking after 
vacb other’s health; the flame reached his beard, but did not hurt him 
Thereupon Férdz spoke : “O my Lord, thy names be blessed ! if the rain 
ie held back for my sake, for any fault of mine, reveal it to me that I 
may divest myself of my dignity ; if something else ia the cause, remove 
it, and make it mown to me and tc the people of the world, and give 
them copious rain.” Then he descended from the altar, left the cupola, 
and sat dowu on the +o made of gold, similar to a throne, but smaller. 
It was a cuetom for a famous fire-temple to have a golden ws for the 
purpose that the king should sit upon it when he came to the temple. 
Now the ministers and priests came near him and greeted him as is due 
to kings. The king spoke to them: “ What has hardened your hearts, 
what has offended you and made you suspicious, that you did not greet 
me before?” They replied: ‘ Because we were standing before another 
king more sublime than you. We wero not allowed to greet you whilst 
standing beforehim.” The king believed them and made them presenta. 
Then be starteu from the town Adharkhfra in the direction of the town 
Dard. But having come as far as the place where is now the villuye 
called Kim. Viréz in Fiirs—it was at that time an uncultivated plain—a 
cloud rose and brought such copious rain as had never Leen witnessed 
before, till the water ran into all the tents, the royal tent as well as the 
other ones, Fériz recognized that God had granted his prayer; he 
praised God, atid ordered that on that spot his tents should be pitched. 
He gave alms, made liberal presents, held assemblies, and was full of joy. 
He did not leave this place befure he hud built the famous village which 


p.229 


216 ALBIRENT, 


he called Katm-Férdz. Féréz is his name, and kim means “ wish ;”* 80 it 
signifies “that he had obtained his wish.” In the joy which sverybedy 
felt over this event, they poured the water over each other. In consp- 
quence this hss become a custom in Erinshahr ever sinco. In svery 
town they celebrate this feast on that dsy when thsy got the rain, and 
the people of Ispahin got the rain on this dsy. 


Isfandérinadh-Mah. 

On the 5th, or Isfandirmadh-Réz, there is a feast on account of the 
identity of the names of the month and the day. Ths word means 
“ intelligence ” and “ripeness of mind.” 

Isfandiarmadh is charged with the care of the earth and with that of 
the good, chaste, and beneficent wife who loves her hushand. In past 
times this was a special feast of the womcn, when the men nsed to make 
them liberal preseuts. This custom is still flourishing at Ispahin, Bai, 
and in ths other districts of Fahts. In Persian it is called Muzhdgtrin. 

This day is famous for the inscribing of pisces of paper. For on this 
day common people eat sun-raisins and the kernels of pomegranates un- 
moistened and not kneaded with water, but pulverized, believing that to 
be an antidote against the bite of the scorpions, and, besides, they write 
in the tims between dawnrise and sunrise upon square pieces of papsr 
the following charm: “In the name of God the gracious, the merciful— 
Isfandirmadhm&h snd Isfandirmadhriz—I have bound (by the charm) 
the going and coming—below and ahove—except the cows—in the nawe 
of the Yazatas and in the name of Jam and Frédim—in the nama of 
God—(I swear) by Adam and Eve, God alone is sufficient unto me!” 
Three such paper pieces they fix on this day on three walls of the house, 
whilst they lesve unmarked the wall opposite to the front of the house, 
helieving that if they fix eomething also on this fourth wall the reptiles 
get bewildered and do not find an outlet, and raise their heads towards 
the window, preparing to leave the house. Sometimes you find places 
influenced by some charm where scorpions do not hite, as, eg. Dindr- 
Riazi in Jurjain, ten miles beyond the frontier towards Khorisin. For 
there you find under every stone @ number of large black scorpions, 
which people touch and play with, and which do not bite. Bnt when 
they are takenaway and brought over the frontier of that district, which 
is a bridge not farther off than a howshot, then they bite, causing 
instantaneous death. 

In the district of Tis there is said to be a village where the scorpions 
do not bite, And ’Abt-alfaraj Alzanjani has told me that in the city of 


10 


20 


30 


Zanjin there are scorpions only in one place, called ths “ Cemetery of 40 


the Pubaristinis,” and thst a man when ho goes there st night and 
gathers some of them in s pot and leaves the pot somewhere else, finds 
that they hurriedly returu to their former places. 

Now, as regards these pieces of paper we have mentioned, they are 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE NONTHS OF THE PERSIANS. 217 


evidently useless, because the power of the incantation cannot affect the 
object of incantation, though its influence be strong, because the plane- 
tary eyelea do not agree with the Persian year, and because the conditions 
of talismans are not fulfilled in them. Perhaps we sball speak of the 
incantations, charms, and talismans in the Book of physical and technical 
wonders and ctriosities, giving such explanations as will plant certain 
persuasions in the minds of intelligent men and remove doubt from the 
minda of those who seck for information, if God willmorcifully postpone 
the end of iy life and hy His grace remove mental calamities. He has 
the power to do eo. 

The 11th, or Khir-Réz, is the first day of the second Gahanbar, the 
last of which is Dai-ha-mibr-Réz. It ie called Maidhydshema-gik. During 
thia Gahanbér God created the water. 

The next following day, the 16th, or Mibr-Réz, is called Afish-i-téea 
(fresh muzk). 

The 19th, or Farwardin-Réz, ie called Naurdz of the rivers and of all 
running waters, when peeple throw perfumes, rose-water, &c. into 
them. 

The Zoroastrians have vo fasting at all. He who fasts commits a ein, 
and muet, by way of expiation, give food to a numher ef poor people. 
They have fairs in the daye of the months we have mentioned, but as 
they differ in different places, we cannot fix them, as little aa we can the 
watercourses of a torrent, it heing impossible to count them. 

‘Adud-aldaula has founded twe feast-days, each of which ie called 
Gashn-i-Kard-i-Fangkhuerau. ‘The one is the day Serésh in Farwardtn- 
Mah, when the water of the aqueduct coming from a distance of four 
farsakh reached the town, which he had built one fareakh helow the 
citadel of Shiraz,and which he had called Kard-i-Fanikhusra. The 
other is the day Hormuz in Aban-Mih, the day when he commenced 
building that same town, A. Yazd. 333. On hoth daya people hold 
fairs of seven days duration, and they assemble for merriment aud 
drinking. 

The Persians divide all the days of the year into preferable and lucky 
daya and into unlucky and detested ones. Besides they have other daya, 
hearing names which are common to them in every month, which are 
festival daye for one class of the people to the exclusion of the other. 

Farther, they have certain rules regarding the appearance of snakes 
o: the different days of the month, which we unite in the following 
Jadwolalikhtiyérat (Table of Selections) :-— 


_ 


“ 


q 


j : What the appramn 
Nymes ofthe | Fan. | Andibe- ( box a ee ee en ee ee eee ,Usfandir- of suabe in 08 of tbe 
Mah 


days of the wardie- } bisht 
Mah, 


aba Ane * | Mab. “Mah, | wari, Mab.  Mib {| Mh. | Mub. Mab, | add ys of the month 
t I | sinaifes. 
bea ceisins — e See eee ee eee als 
Hormezl- | preferable, becanse it bears the came of God. ! ‘. «| Before noon ; Sultan. 
Bahman - -| middling "idaling middling middling puddling middling | muddling middling igang dating i bualucky migaliog Iilners avd icenlag 
Arditahiaht +} 4, jlnoky |lucky | locky »  punlucky |) flucky | middling lucky) Death of apy lors tn the 
: azo 
Sbabréwar «| » " middling | tucky jincky | 5 | midding| m | om smfddtiog Something uneful aod a 
' help coming from the 
! Frople o! 
Istandacmadh § * Incky middling i . | ocr mney ow iqareag | tation praise. 
Ehurd4dh . : middling fi lacky i | . ” weky i on :Tocky ! Bes useful journey. 
Mordidh - -| 5 . cuidiiing middling too ; " ee ee Tinesa und disease. 
Dal-beddhar -| 2 7 ; pidaaing piling) »  |miditing) {} midiiing, 3, middling. Coming to the Suitau. 
Adhar = - =| nnlucky » nef . «| ce eck chs a " | locks luce’! \uplucky | Like the doy before. 
Abinl0 . «| middling i ai ral wy ing ess cal ” unlucky ” mi g middling Matchmaking aud marry. 
. De. 
Khtr- - wojucky | 4” middling} » ' » | » | » | Momey-ettbouterertion- 
Mth - + Suctenihin heSacoa th beare Une dithe oF tke Saou - ae -|- -j- -- -l. oe - Good =A noon, bad= 
Tr - + «+ Ineky lucky middling unlucky | Palgdling middling middling | widdling j :uiddling |  wsGaling middling’ middling, An increase of wealth. 
Gésh- + «| mh 3 a » lucky | Jucky * ; ” ” ” ” ” Mourlshsent alone ftom 
. ‘ 0: 
Dalbadihets.| ,, |untucky) ,, | mibddling middling), |, | Iuoky ae ee feo bob Nt Fettowed by com 
jescence, 
Mibr- + + lucky lucky a i wy = t ducky middling ” " ar lucky The acquisition of come 
; | | thing you had not got | 
Srish “8 middling} middling os middling | luck: luc! luc! middling. Journey and return. 
Bobo « -| 4, 3 s a %. «lwoky = Tucky | mafddting! miadting’ Widating' cs "| Journey and ness dur. 
IDK 7 
Ferwardin. . tushy lue middling middling lucky |» "Au increase of wealth, 
@abrim 20. + Hi - ou g| uniticky ” 1 oe n unlucky ' unlucky ie lucky Some ove of the family 
Bim - + -| lucky lucky ” » yes Iucky = Lucby luaky uiiddiing fucks , Wweky eee Journe asd victory over 
yernaries, 
ah - -|nolucky | middling ‘i a ' middling | middling ‘i tno uplucky | miaatoe Snepicion of theft. 
Dai-ba-Din -|middiing} ,, Ss 'middling| middling, luck, : middling middling. Mivess and disease, 
Din - - «| lacky . » re pay g - fucky lucky lucky uisition of money, 
Ards + =| [techy " _—, ? lg a middling 7 blamable. 
‘Auhtdah - ~| mid@itog middling | or yucky) ‘middling] =| i mid dbaing middling ae a une. 
Bs ae Ineky, looky » . ” n ” ” ) Being eccveed of lying. 
Zamydd «+ middiing| middling middling " middling ” ” ” ” » » A calamity in the property 
Mirssfond . ‘ F is 7 ie - ~ midMing ¥ A short Tourney. 
Hames. 2] 3 | ‘tte | no] op gf fos og MABE os | om pantittseuttorfoentestion, 


bald 


“AALQUYCTV 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE PERSIANS. 219 


The day Mfh they consider to be a preferable day from its heing called p.238. 


by the namo of the moon, which God created for the purpose of distri- 
buting what is good and agreeable over the world. Therefore the waters 
increase, and animals, trees, and plants grow from new-moon till the 
tims when the moon begins to wane. 

The two days of conjunction and onposition they hold to be walacky 
days. 

On the day of conjunction the Demons and Satans fvel the lust of 
intermingling viciously with the things in the world. Then madness 
and epilepsy are hrought ahout. The seas hegin to ehh, the waters 
to decrease, the male turtle-doves are suffering from epilepsy. The 
sperma which on this day settles in the uterus is born as a child 
of imperfect structure; hair which is torn out of the body will 
he replaced only sparsely ; everything that is planted will only produce 
scanty fruit, more particularly so if there be an eclipse on the same day. 
IE a hen sits hatching her eggs at new-moon, the eggs will he bad; at 
new-moon & narcissus is snre to wither. 

Al-EKindi scars: Conjunction is detegted leceanse then the moon is heing 
burned, who is the guide of all Lodies; and therefore people dread de- 
struction and rnin for them. 

At the time of opposition, people say, the Ghils and sorcerers feel 
the lust to mix with impure spirits. In consequence there is much 
epilepsy. The seas hegiu to flow, the waters to increase ; tli she-turtle- 
doves are becoming epileptical. 'The sperma whicl settles in the uterus 
on the day of opposition is born as a child of more than commion strnc- 
ture. The hair which is torn out will he replaced abundantly. All that 
is planted on this day will prodnce worm-eaten fruits and will be very 
impure, more particularly so if there be an cciipse on the same day. 

Al-Kindi says: Full-moon is detested because then the light of the 
moon requires help from ths light of the sun, who is the guide of the 
spirits. Therefore people fear lest the spirits should leave the bodies. 


220 aLninin}, 


CHAPTER X. 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE SUGHDIANS. 


Tue months of the inhahitants of Sogdiana were likewise distributed 
over the four quarters of the year. The first day of the Sughdian 
month Nausard was the first day of summer. There was no difference 
hetween them and the Persiaus regarding the beginning of the year and 
the beginnings of some of the months, but there was a difference regard- 
ing the place of the five Epagomene, as we have heretofore explained. 
And they did so for no otber reason but this, that they honoured their 
kings to such a degree that they would not do the same things which the 
kings did. They preferred to use as new-year that moment when Jam 
returned successful, whilst the kings preferred as new-ycar that moment 
when Jam started (set out). 

Some people maintain that these two different new-years wore to be 
traced to a difference that was discovered in the astronomical observations. 
For the ancient Persians used a solar year of 365 days 6 hours 1 minute, 
and it was their universal practice to reckon these 6 hours plus the 1 
. minute as a unit (te. to disregard the 1 minute in reckoning). 

But afterwards when Zoroaster appeared and introduced the religion 
of the Magi, when the kings transferred their residence from Balkh to 
Persis and Babe] and occupied themsslves with the affairs of their reli- 
gion, they ordered new observations to he made, and then they found that 
the summer-solstice preceded by five days the beginning of the year, which 
was the third year after intercalation. In consequence, they gave up 
their former system and adopted whut astronomical observation had 
taught them, whilst the people of Transoxiana kept the old system and 
disregarded the state of that same year (z.e. its deviation from rea] time), 


10 


20 


ON THER FRSTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE SUGHDIANS. 221 


on which their calondar was based. Hence the difference of the beyin- 
ings of the Persion and Sughdian years. 

Other people maintain that originally both the Persian and Snyhdian 
years had the same beginning, unti) the time when Zoroaster appeared. 
But when after Zoroaster the Persians began to transfer the five Epaga- 
mene to ench of the leap-months, as we have before mentioned, the 
Sughdians left them in their original place aud did not trausfer them. 
Se they kept them at the end of the months of their year, whilst the 
Persians, after they began to ueglect intercalation, retained them at the 

10 end of Abjiu-Mih. God knows best! 


The Sughdians have many festivals and famous memoria) days in the 
same way as the Persians. What we have leamed of them, regarding 
this subject, is the following :— 


Nausard. The Ist day is their Nauréz, which is the Great Naxaiz, 

The 28th is a feast for the Magians of Bukhirt, called Ritmuah-ghdm, 
during which they assemble in a fire-temple in the village Réimush. 
These Aghims are the most important of their festivals, whieh they cele- 
hrate alternately in cach village, assembling iu the house of each chief- 
tain, eatin: and drinkiug, 

20 Jiri. Nothing mentioned. 

Wisanay. The 12th is the first Makhtraj. 

Basikanaj. The 7th is the -@ Aghim, a feast of theirs at Baikand, 
where they assemble. 

The 12th is the second Makhiraj. 

The 15th is the feast .—. Khwdéva, when they eat leavened bread after 
abstaining from eating and drinking end from everything that is touched 
by the fire except fruita and vegetables. 

Ashnikhanda’. The 18th is the feast Baba-Khwira, also called Bami- 
Kbwira;re-dinking the good, pure must. 

30 The 26th is Karm-Khwiira. 

Mazhikhandé. The $rdis the feast Kishmin, when they hold a fair 
in the village eXsS. On the 15th they hold a fair in Al-tawhiwis. 
There the merchants of al} countries gather and hold a fair of seven 
days duration. 

as The Ist is called Nim-sarda, i.e. the half of the year. 

The 2nd is a feast called +-¢ ye Khwira, when they assemble in their p 935, 
fire-temples and eat a certain dish which they prepare of the flour of 
millet, of butter and sugar. Some people put Nim-sarda five days 
earlier, ze. on the lst of Mihr-Mah, to make it agree with the Persian 

40 calendar, whilst, in fact, the middle of the year ought to be celebrated 
when after its beginning 6 months and 2? days have passed. 

The 9th is the feast 5 Aghim. 

The 25th is the first day of Karm-Khwiira. 


222 atptront. 


NEiina}. The 9th is the last day of Karm.Khwitra, 

igh. Nothing mentioned. 

Mareatogh. From the Sth till the 15th of thie month they havea 
feast. After that the Muhammadans hold a fair of seven days in 
Adshargh. 

Zhimadanaj. Tho 24th is the Bidh-Amghim. 

Khshim. On the last day of this month the Sughdians cry over those 
who died in past times, they lament over them and cut their faces. They 
lay out for them dishes and drinks, as the Persians do in Farwardajin. 
For the five days, which are the $uépos cAompatac to the Sughdisns, they 
fix at the end of this month, as we have mentioned before. 

Besides, they hold fairs in the villages in the districts of Bukhara and 
Sughd on those days that hava only ons name in every month (i.e. the 
8th, 25th, 28rd, which are called Dast). 


10 


10 


228 


CHAPTER XI. 


ON THE PESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OP THE EHWARIZNTANS. 


Tus Khwihrizmians agreo with the Sughdians regarding the beginnings 
of the year and the months, and they disagree with the Persians in the 
same subjects. Ths cause of this is ths same which we have described 
when speaking of the Sughdians. Thsir usages in their menths are 
similar to those of the Sughdians. The beginning of their summer was 
tha lst of Nausirji, They had festivals in their months which they 
celebrated before the tims of Islim. They maintain that God Almighty 
ordered them to celebrate those testivals. Besides they celebrate other 
days in commemoration of the deeds of their ancestors. But at ths 
present time thers are only very few of the Magians among the Khwi- 
rizmians left, who do net particularly care for their religion; they know 
nething of it except its outward forms, and they do not inquire into its 
spirit and real meaning. In consequence, they regulate their festivals 
by the knowledga of their distances from each other, not according to 
their real places which they oceupy in ths single months. 

Those, now, of their days and festivals that are not connected with 
their religion are the following: 

Niusirj. The lst day is tho feast of new-year, the new-day, as we 
have already mentioned. 

Sydiwisht. Nothing mentioned. 

Harfidadh. The lst day is called qty \qy!. In ante-Muhammadan 
times this tte was the time of extreme heat; therefore, they say, it was 
eriginally called oljyq Lx\esz,! which means : the drese will be put off, signi- 
fying that it was the time for baring and undressing themselves. 


p.236, 


287. 


—m a MUGIMUNE 


In our time this dey coincides with the time of the sowing of sesame 
and what is sown together with it. So people have come to uso it as an 
epoch, 


Givi. The 15th ie called Ajghér, which means: ihe frewood and the 
flatwne. In bygone times it was the beginning of that season when people 
felt the nesd of warming themaslves at the fire, becauss the air was 
changing in autumn. In our time it coincides with the middle of 
summer. From this day they count 70 days,and then commence sowing 
the autumn wheat. 
~Hamdadh. Nothing mentioned. 
ikhshavtwari, The Ist -.2y is called 4,4; but originally, they say, 
it waa called Faghraubch, i.e. the evitua of the Shah. For ahout this time 
the kings of Khwirizm nsed to merch ont, because the heat was then 
decreasing and ths cold drawing near; then they went into winter- 
quarters outside their residence, driving away the Ghuzz-Turks from 
their frontiers and defending tho limits of their empire against their 
inroads, 

Time. ‘The Ist day is the feast dedd Kand Khwér, i.e. the day of 
eating the bread prepared with fat. On that day they sought protection 
from the cold, and assembled for the purpose of eating the bread prepared 
with fat, around the burning fire-grates. 

Tho 18th is the feast Ciri-Réj, which the Khwarismiang hold in the 
same vensration as the Persians their Mihrajan. 

The 2st ia likewise a feaat, called Rém-R6j. 

Yanithun. Nothing mentioned in this month. 

Ada. Nothing mentioned. 

Bimazhd. The 11th is called Nimkhkab. People say that it was 
originally called Minac’ Akhib, which waa then wrongly altered for the 
sake of casier pronunciation, as it was freqnently used. It means: the 
night of Mina. Now, somo of thom maintain that Mina was one of their 
queens or chieftains, that she left her castle intoxicated, dressed in a 
silk dress, at spring time. She fell dewn outside the castle and lost ali 
self-control; she fell asleep, was smitten by the cold of the night, and 
died. Now people were astonished that the cold had Killed a human 
being about this time in spring. So they used it as an epoch for some- 
thing miraculous, extraordinary, that does not happen at its proper 
time. 

This day has been advancing heyond its proper time to such a dogrec, 
that now-2-days people consider it as the middle of wizter. 

On this day and about this time the people of Khwarizm use perfumes 
and incengs, and they make the smells rise up from the dishes which 
they lay out for the purpose of keeping off a] the injuries of the demons 
and evil spirita. 

This proceeding is necessary, by way of careful precantion, if some 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON THY FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OF THE KHWARIZNIANS, 225 


spiritual matters are connected with it. I mean charms, incantations, 
and prayers, which the most distinguished philosophers have ucknow- 
ledged and allowed, after having witnessed their effects, e.g. Galenus, and 
others like him, though they are few. These precautions are likewise to 
be recemmended if people in doing 0 derive some help from astronomical 
occurrences, as, e.g. the Zempora Parata and the Pempora Selecta, with 
the constellations that aro mentioned for such purposes. Wo cannot 
help taking notice of those who try to prove that afl such precaution ia 
futile and falas by no other arguments hut hy mockery, derision, and 
sDBerS. 

The existence of jinns rnd demons has been acknowledged by the 
Most famous philosophers and scholars, e.g. by Aristotle, when ho de- 
ecribes them as heiuga of air and fire and calls them “human beings.” 
Likewise Yahyai Grannnaticus and others have acknowledged them, 
describing them as the impure parts of the erring souls, after they have 
been separated from their bedies, who {the souls) are prevented from 
reaching their primal origin, because they did not find the knowledge of 
ths truth, hut were living in confusion and stupefaction. Something 
similar to this is what. Mani indicates in his hooks, although his indica- 
tions are expressed in subtle words aud phrases. 

“Kkhamman. Nothing mentioned in this month. 


Ispandarmaji. The 4th is called K&é&k, 7c. the rising. 

The 10th isa feast called Wokhsh-dugim. Wakhsh isthe name of the 
angel whe has to watch over the water and especially over the river 
Oxus. 

The 20th is called 4q\, which means: houses that are built close 
together. 

Besides they have other festivals which they waut for the affairs of 
their religion ; they are the following six :— 


E The first is called », tes on the 11th of Nausarji. Common 
people call it Néusdrjakdnik by the month in which it occurs. 

I. The second ie called - gi» “ee on the lst of Cir. It is also 
called Jdwardaminik, i.e. 23) and Ajghdrminik, so called from the 
ae Ajghar, becanse it falls 15 days before that feast (on the 15th of 

arf). 

ILL The third is called wy, gets on the 15th of Hamdadh. It is 
also called els Sait. 

TV. The fourth is called +2, .ynje* on the 15th of Mmrf, also called 
AIINK yy ye 

V. The fifth is called (lacuna) on the Ist of Rimazhd, also called 
wh SS dg&, 

VI. The sixth is called 3) Wess! on the lst of Akhamman, also called 
al s53 yee5)). 

15 


p.288, 


226 ALBinont. 


In the five last days of Iepandarmaji and the follewing five Kpago- 
mena@ they de the eame which the Persians do in Farwardajin, i.e. they 
lay out food in the temples for the epirits of the dead. 

(The Lunar Stations with the Chorasmians).—They were in the 
habit of using the statiens of the mcon and deriving from them the 
rulee of astrology. The names of the stations in their language they 
have preserved, but those who made use of them, who knew how to 
observe them and howto draw conclusions from them, have diedout. Their 
using tho lunar stations is clearly proved by the fact that in the 


Khwérizmf dialect au astronomer is called Akhtar-wénik, ie. looking to - 


the lunar stations, for Akhtar means @ etation of the moon. 

They used to distribute these stations over the twelve signs of the 
Zodiac, for which they also had special names in their language. They 
knew them (the signs of Zodiac) even better than the Arabs, as you 
learn by the fact that their nomenclature of them agrees with the names 
given to them by the original designer of their figures, whilst the names 
of the Araha do not agree, and they represent thesé signs as quite 
different figures. 

For instance, they count Aljauzi among the number of the Zodiacal 
signs instead of Gemini, whilst Aljauza isthe figure Orion. The people of 
Khwirizm call this sign (Gemini) Adhidpackarik, ie. having two figures, 
which means the same as Gemini. 

Further, the Arabs represent the figure ef Leo as compesed of a 
number ef figures. In conseqnence, Leo extends in longitude over some- 
thing more than three signs, not to mention ita extension in latitude. For 
they consider the two heads of Geminias his outetretched forefoot, and 
the nebula, in the foremost part of which is Cancer, I mean Alnathra, 
as his nose. The breast ef Virge, I mean Alawwé, they consider as his 
two loins; the hand of Virgo, I mean Alsimdk AVaval, as one of his 
shanks ; and Alrimih as hia other shank. According to tbsir opinion, the 
figure of Leo extends over the signs Cancer, Leo, Virgo, and part of 
Libra, and a number of constellations beth of the nerthern and southern 
hemispheres, whilst in reality the matter is not what they assume. 

If you, likewise, inquire into the names of the Arabs for the fixed 
stare, yeu will see that they were very far from un accurate knowledge 
of the Zodiacal signs and the star-figures, although ’Abi-Muhammsd 
‘Abdallah b, Muslim b. Kutaiba Aljabali used to make a great to-do 
and to he very verbose in all his beoke, and epecially in his back 
on the superiority of the Arabs over the Persians, maintaining that 


the Arabs were the beet-informed nation regerding the stare and 40 


the times of their rising and setting. I de not know whether he 
was really ignorant, or only pretended to be ignorant, of what 
the agriculturists and peasants in every place and district have get 
in the-way ef knowledge regarding the heginning of the agricultural 
works and other things, and of knowledge of the proper times for similar 


Ww 


20 


80 


ON THE FESTIVALS IN THE MONTHS OP THE KHWARIZMIANS. 227 


subjects. For he whose roof is heaven, who has no other cover, over 
whom the stare eontinually rise and sat in one and the sama course, 
makes the beginnings of his affairs and his knowledge of time depend 
upon them. But the Arabs had, moreover, ons advantage in which others 
did not share; this is the perpetuation of what they knew or helieved, 
right or wrong, praise or blame, by means of their poetry (Kagidas), by 
Rajez posms, and by compositions in rhymed prose. These things one 
generation inherited from the other, so as to remain among them and 
after them. If you study those traditions in the ’Anwé books, and 
specially his hook which he called “ The Science of the Appearance of the 
Stars,” part of which we have communicated to the reader at the end of 
this book, you will find that the Arabs had no particular knowledge on 
this subject beyond that which is familiar to the peasants of every 
country. The man (i.e.‘Abdallih ». Muslim Aljabalt), however, is extra- 
vagant in the subject into which he plunges, and not free from Jabali 
(e mountainecr) character, as far as obstinacy of opinion is concerned. 
The style of his book which wa have mentioned shows that there muat 
have heen enmities and grudges between him and the Persians. For he 
is not satisfied at exalting the Arabs at the expense of the Persians, hut 
he must needs make the Persians the meanest. vilest, and moet degraded 
of all nations, attrihute to them even more want of belief and obstinacy 
against Islim than God attributes to the diab Bedouins in the Sara 
Aliaute (Sira iz. 98), and heap upon them all that is ahominable. If ha 
had only taken a moment's consideration and had called to mind the 
first period of those whom he preferred to the Persians, he would have 
givan the lie to himself in most of what he says about both parties from 
sheer want of moderation and equity. 

In the following we give the names of the lunar stations in the dia- 
lect both of the Sughdians and the Khwirizmians. Afterwards we shall 
describe the constellations in which they appear, when we speak of the 
timas of their rising and setting. 


Taste or THE Luyar Srarrons. 


Their Names in Arabic. 


1. Aithurayya 
Aldabarén 


4 


yard 
Atjabha 
| Alzobra 


p.239, 


p.240, 


228 


Their Names in Arabio. 


10. Algarfa gy 
Abawwit sob 
Alsimfik ee 
Alghafr wy 
Alzahaniyin oe 

15, AYikHI Spd 
Alkalb Myd 
Alshaula Uriys= phe 
Alna‘#’im rt 
Albalda heyy 

20. Sa‘d aldhabih | iby 
Sa/d hulas Es 
Sa‘d alsu‘id potas 
Sa‘d alakhbiya ont 

a tenors, | se 

5 mw’e: ar fon 
Bajn albit 2 
Alsharafin toty 


Albatain e 


20 


10 


229 


CHAPTER XII, 


ON KHWARIZM-SHAH’S BEFORM OF THE KAWARIZMIAN PEST.LL 
CALENDAR. 


*Anu-Sa'm "AumMaD b. Muhammad »b. Irak followed the example of 
Almu‘tadid-billah regarding the intercalation of the Cuorasmian months. 
For on having been freed from his fetters at Bukhari, and having re- 
turned to his residence, he asked the mathematicians at his court 
regarding the feast Ajghir, whereupon they pointed out to him its place 
in the calendar. Further, he asked with what day of Tammiiz it corre- 
sponded, and this also they told him. This date he kept in memory, 
and when seven years later at the same time of the ycar he again came 
to think of it, he rejected this sort of calculation. He was not as yet 
acquainted with the intercalatious and all matters connected with them. 
Then ho orderod Alkharfiji and Alhamdaki and othor astronomers of his 
time to be brought before him, and asked them 2a to what was the 
reality of the case. These scholars then gave him a minute explanation 
and told him how the Persians and Chorasmians had managed their 
year. Thereupon he said: “This is a system which has become confused 
and forgotten. The people rely upon these days (é.e. certain feast-days, 


20 Ajghir, Nimkhab, etc.), and thereby they find the cardinal points of the 


four seasons, since they believe that they never change their places in the 
year; that Ajghdr is always the middle of summer, Nimkhab the middle 
of winter; certain distances from these days they use as the proper times 
for sowing and ploughing. Something like this (ze. the deviation of the 
Choraamian year from proper time) is not perceived except in the courses 
of many years. And this is ons of the reasons why they disagreo among 
each other regarding the fixing of those distances, so that somo main. 
tain that 60 days after Ajghdr iv the proper time for sowiug the wheat, 
whilst others put this time carlier or later. The proper thing would be 
that we should find some means to fix those things uniformly and to 


p.241 


p.242. 


230 ALBinOni. 


invariable times of the year, so that the proper timea for these things 
should never differ.” 

Now, the scholars told him that the best way in this matter would be 
to fix the beginnings of the Chorasmian months on certain days of the 
Greek and Syrian montha—in the seme way as Almu‘tadid had done— 
and after that to intercalata them as the Greeks and Syrianado. This 
plan they carried out A. Alex. 1270, and they arranged that the Ist of 
Niusirji should fall on the third of the Syrian Nisin, so that Ajghér 
would always fall in the middle of Tammiz. And accordingly they 
regulated the times of agricultural works, ¢g. the time of gathering 
grapes for the purpose of making raisins is 40-50 days after Ajghér; 
the time of gathering grapea for the purpore of hanging them up, 
end the time of gathering pears, ia 55-65 daya after Ajghdr. In the 
eaine way they fized all the times for sowing, for the impregnation of 
the palm-trees, for planting and binding together, etc. If the Greek year 
is a leap-year, the Epagomene at the end of Ispandarmajf are eix days. 
If people had made this reform of Khwirizm-Shith the epoch of an 
era, We should have added it to the other eras which woe have hefore 
mentioned. 


Regarding the festivale in the non-intercalated montha of the Egyp- 
tions, although it is likely that they had similar ones with the other 
nations, we have not received any information. Likewise we have no 
information regarding their festivals in the intercalated months which 
they use now-a-daya, except this, that people say that new-year of the 
Egyptians ia the let of Théth, and that the water of the Nile begins to 
swell and to increase on the 16th of Payni, acrording to another report 
on the 20th of Payni. It is likely that they would celebrate the same 
festivals as the Greeks and Syrians, because Egypt lies in the midst 
between them and because they all use the samo kind of year, Some 
matters, however, are quite peculiar to the Egyptians, eg. their country, 
Egypt, has certain peculiarities, m which no other comtry eshares—~ 
appearances of -the water, the air, the rain, etc. 

The famous days of the Greeks and Syrians are of two kinds, one for 
the affaira of any xort of secular life, for certain aerial appearancoas, etc., 
as wo have already mentioned, and another kind for the matters of their 
religion, which is Christianity. We shall describe in its proper place as 
ronch 2s we have learned about both kinds, and as has been reported to 
us, if God permits! 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


232 


CHAPTER XIII, 


ON THE NAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR AS KNOWN DOTH ANONQ THE 
QREEK6 AND OTHER NATIONS. 


Tue Greek year agrees with the solar year; its seasons retain their 
proper places like the natural seasons of the solar year; it revolves 
parallel with the latter, and its single parts never cease to correspond 
witb those of the latter, except hy that quantity of time (the Portio 
Entercalationiz) which, before it becomes perceptible, is appended to the 
year and added to it as one whole day (in every fourth year) by means 
of interealation. Therefore the Greeks and Syrians and all who follow 
their example fix and arrange by this kind of ycar a] snnual, consecu- 
tive cosurrencea, and also the meteorological and other qualities of the 
single days that experience has taught them in the long run of time, 
which are called ’Anwéi and Bazwirih. 

Regarding the cause of these *Anwd, scholars do not agree among each 
other. Some derive them from the rising and setting of the fixed stara, 
among them the Arabs. (Some poet says): 


‘Those are my people (a bad set) like the Banit-Na‘sh, 
Who do ot bring rain like the other stars;” 


ix. they are good-for-uothing people like the Bandt-Na‘ehk, whose rising 
and setting do not bring rain. 

Others, again, derive them from the days themselves, maintaining that 
they are peculiarities of them, that such is their nature, at least, on an 
average, and that besides they are increased or diminished by other 
causes, They say, for instance: The uature of the season of summer is 
heat, the nature of the season of winter is cold, sometimes in a higher 


degree, sometimes less, The excellent Galenus says: “ To decide between p.243 


232 ALBironf, 


these parties is only possible on the basis of experiment and examination. 
But to examine this difference of opinion is not possible except in a long 
space of time, because the motion of the fixed stars is very little known 
and because in a short space of time to find vers little difference in theiy 
rising and setting.” 

Now, this opinion has filled Sinan h. Thihit b. Kurya with surprise. 
He says in his book on the Aud, which he composed for the Khalif 
Almu'tadid: “I do not know how Galenus came to make such s mistake, 
skilled as he was in sstronomy. For the risiug and setting of the 
stars differ greatly and evidently in different countrics. E.g. Sukail rises 
at Baghdad on the 5th of lal, at Wasit two days later, at Basra somewhat 
carlior than at Wisit. People say: ‘the ’Antwt differ in different 
countries.” But thst is not the case. On the contrary, they occur always 
on one and the same day (everywhere) ; which proves that the stars and 
their rising and sctting have nothing todo with this matter.” 

Afterwards ho has given the lic to himself, though it is correct what he 
said, viz., that the rising and setting of the stars sre not to he con. 
sidered as forming one of the causes of the ’Anwaé, if you Hmit hie 
assertion by certain conditions and do not understand it in that generality 
in which he hag proclaimed it. 

Further he (Sinn h. Thabit) says : * The *Ansué of the Arabs are mostly 
correct for Alhijaz and the neighbourhood, those of the Egyptians for 
Egypt and the coasts of the sea, those of Ptolemy for Greece and the neigh- 
houring mountaine. If anybody would go to one of those countries and 
examine them there, he would find correct what Gaienus says regarding 
the difficulty of an examination of the ’Anwé in a short space of time.” 
To this respect he (Sinfin) is right. Galenns mentions and believes only 
what he considers as a truth, resting on certain arguments, and keeps 
aloof from everything that is beset with doubt and obscurity. 

Sinan relates of his father, that he examined the ’Anwé in ‘Irik about 
thirty years with the view of finding certain principles with which to 
compare the ’Auui of other countries. But fate overtook him before he 
could accomplish his plan. 

Whichever of the two theories may be correct, whether the ’"Anwé are 
to be traced back to the days of the year or to the rising and setting of 
the Lunar Stations, in any case there is no room for a third theory. To 
each of these theories, whichaver you may hold to ke correct, certain 
conditions attach, on which the correctness of the ’Anwd depends, t.e. to 
prognosticate the character of the year, the season, the month, whether 
it will be dry or moist, whether it will answer to the expectations of 
people or not, to prognosticate it hy means of the signs and proofs, of 
which the astronomical books on meteorology aro full. For if the ’Anwé 
agree with those signs and proofs, they are true and will be fulfilled in 
their entire extent; if they do not agree, something different will occur. 

Thus the matter stande between these two theories. 


10 


20 


80 


40 


10 


20 


380 


OX THE DAYS Uf THE GREFK CALENDAR. 2938 


Simin bh. Thibdit prescribes that we should take into regard whether the 
Arabs and Persians agree on a Nax’. 1f they do agree, its probability 
is strengthened and it is sure to take place; if they do not agree, the 
contrary is the case. 

I shall mention in this book the comprehensive account of Sinin in 
his book on the ’Aazwé and the proper times for secular affairs cceurring 
in the Greek months. Of the rising and setting of the Lunar 
Stations I shall speak in a special chapter at the end of this beek. For 
since the astronomers have found that their rising and setting proceed 
according to one and the same uniform order in these months, they have 
assigned them to their proper days, in order to unite them and prevent 
them from getting into confusion. God lends support and help ! 


Tishrin FT. (October.) 


1. People expect rain (Euctemon and Philippus); turbid air (Egyp- 
tians and Callippus). 

2. Turbid winterly air (Callippus, Egyptians, and Euctemon) ; rain, 
(Eudoxus and Metrodorus). 

$. Nothing mentioned. 

4. Wearing wind (Eudoxus) ; wiuterly air (Egyptians). 

5. Wiaterly air (Democritus) ; heginning of the time of sowing. 

6. North wind (Egyptians). 

?. South wind (Hipparchus). 

8. Nothing mentioned. Winterly air, according to Sinfn. 

9. ’Emonjpove (Eudoxus) ; east wind (Hipparvhus) ; west wind (Egrp- 
tians). 

10. Nothing mentioned. 

11. Episemasia (Eudoxus and Dosithens). 

12. Rain (the Egyptians). 

13. Unsteady wind, Episemasia, thunder, and rain (Callippus); north 
wind or south wind (Eudoxus and Dositheus). Siniin attests that this 
is frequently true. On this day the waves of the sea are sure to be in 
great commotion. 

14. Episemasia and north wind (Eudexus). 

15. Change of the winds (Eudoxus). 

16. Nothing mentioned. 

17. Rain and Episemasia (Dositheus); west wind cr south wind 
(Egyptians). 

18. Nothing mentioned. 

19. Rain and Episemasia (Dosithens); west wind or south wind 
(Egyptians). 

20, 21. Nothing mentioned. 

22. Unsteady, changing winds (Egyptians). On this day the air 
hegins to get cold. It is no longer time for drinking medicine and for 


p.244, 


284 auBinoyi. 


phisbotomy except in oasa of need. For thse Favourable Times for such 
things are always then, when you intend thereby to preserve the health 
of the hody, For if you are compelled to uss auch means, you cannot 
wait for a night or day, for heat or cold, for a lucky or unluoky day. On 
tho contrary, you uss it as acon ag possibls, hefore the evil takes root, 
when it would be difficult to eradicate it. 

28. Episemesia (Hudoxus) ; north wind or south wind (Casar). 

24, Episemasia (Callippus and Egyptians). 

25. Episemasiz (Metrodorus) ; change iu the air (Callippus and Eucte- 
mon), 10 

26. Nothing mentioned. 

48, 27. Winterly air (Egyptians). 

28. Nothing mentioned. Jt is a favourable day for taking 2 warm 
bath and for eating things that are of a sharp, biting taste, nothing that 
is salt or hitter. 

29. Hail or frost (Democritus); continual south wind (Hipparchus); 
tempest and winterly air (Egyptians), 

30. Heavy wind (Euctemon and Philippus). Ths kites, the white 
carrion-vultures (vullur percnopterus), and the swallows migrate to the 
lowlands, and the ants go into thsir nest. 20 

81. Violent winds (Callippus and Euctemon); wind and winterly air 
(Metrodorus and Cmsar); south wind (Egyptians). God knowe best! 


Tishrin ZI. (November.) 


1. Clear (2i#. unmixsd) winds (Eudoxus and Conon). 

2. Clear aiy with cold north wind and south wind. 

3. South wind blows (Ptolemsus); west wind (Egyptians); north or 
south wind (Eudoxus); rain (Euctemon, Philippus, and Hipparchus). 

4, Episemasia (Euctemon) ; rain (Philippus). 

&. Winterly air and rain (Egyptians). 

6. South or west wind (Egyptians) ; winterly air (ositheus). Sinin 30 
says that this is borne out by practical experience. 

7. Kain with whirlwind (Meton); cold wind (Hipparcbus). This is 
the first day of the rainy season, when the sun enters the 2lat degree of 
Cancer. Astrologers take the horoscope of this time and derive there- 
from an indication as to whether the year will have much rain or little. 
Herein they rely upon the condition of Venus at the times of her rising 
and setting, I believe, however, that this is only peculiar to the climate 
of ‘Irak and Syria, not to other countries, for very frequently it rains with 
usin Khwarizm even before this time. ’Abié-alkAsim ‘Ubaid-Allah b. ‘Abd- 
allah b. Khurdaédbhih relates in his Kitdb-almasdlik walmamdliz that in 40 
Hijaz and Yaman it rains dermg Haziran, Tammdz, and part of Tlil 1 
myeclf have beex dwelling in Jurjin during the summer montha, but there 
never passed ten consecutive days during which the sky was clear and 


10 


20 


30 


ON TB DAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR, 235 


freo from elouds, and whan it did not rain. It is a rainy country. 
Pooplo relate that one of the khalifs, I think it was Ahna’milu, stayed 
there during forty days whilst it rainad without any interruption. So he 
said: “ Lead us out of this pissing, splashing country!" 

The nearer a district is to Taharistin, the more its air is moist, ths 
more rainy itis. The air of the mountains of Tubaristin is so moist 
that if people break and pound garlic on ths tops of tho mountains, rain 
is sure to set in. As the cause of this subject, the vice-judge, Alimili, 
the author of the Hitib-Alghurra, mentions this, that the air of the 
country is moist and dense with stagnant vapours. If, now, the smell of 
garlic spreads among thesp vapours, it dissolves the vapours by its sharp- 
ness and compresses the density of the air, in consequence of which rain 
follows. 

Granted, now, that this be the cause of this appearance produced by 
the pounding of garlic, how do yeu, then, account for the famous well 
in the mountains of Farghiina, where it begins to rain as soon as you 
throw something dirty into this well ? 

And how de you account for the place called “the shop of Solomon the 
207% of David,” in the cave called Ispahbadhin in the mountain of Tak 
in Tabaris‘sin, where heaven becomes cloudy as soon as you defile it by 
filth or by milk, and where it rains until you clean it again? 

And hew do you account for the mountain in the conntry of tbe 
Turks? For if the sheep pass over it, people wrap their feet in wool to 
prevent their touching the rock of the mountain. For if they touch it, 
heavy rain immediately follows. Pieces of this rock the Turks carry 
about, and contrive to defend themselves thereby against all evil coming 
from the enemy, if they are surrounded by them. Now, those who are 
not aware of these facts consider this as a bit of sorcery on the part of 
the Turks. 

Of a similar character is a fountain called “ the pure one” in Egypt in 
the lowest part of a mountain which adjuins a church. Into this fountain 
aweet, nicely-smelling water is flowing out of asource in the bottom of the 
mountain. If, now, an individual that is impuse through pollution or 
menstruation touches the water, it begins at once to stink, and dces not 
cease until you pour out ths water ef the fountain and clean it; then it 
regains its nice smell. 

Farther, there isa mountain between Herft and Sijistin, in a sandy 
country, somewhat distant from the road, where you hear a clear murmur 
and a deep sound as soen as it is defiled by human excrements or urine. 

These things are natural peculiarities of the created beings, the causes 
of which are to he traced back to the simple elements ane to the begin- 
ning of all compesition and creation. And there is ne pessibility that 
our knowledge should ever penetrata to suhjects of this description. 

There are other districts of quite another character from that of the 
mountains of Tabaristin, eg. Fustaét in Egypt, and the adjacent parts, for 


p.246. 


42. 


236 aLBirnont. 


there it rains very seldom. And if it rains, the air is infected, hecomss 
pestilential and hurts hoth animals and plants, Such things (i.e such 
climatica) differences) depend upon the nature of the placo and its 
situation, whethor it lics in the mountains or on the sea, whether it is a 
Place of great slevation or a low country; further, upon tho degrae of 
northern or southern latitude of the place. 

8 Rain and winterly air (Euctemon); winterly air and whirlwinds 
(Metrodorus) ; south wind or efpos, i.e, south-east wind (Euctemon) ; east 
wind (Egyptians). 

9. Nothing mentioned. 

10. Winterly air and whirlwinds (Enctemon and Philippus); north 
wind, or cold sonth wiad and rain (Hipparchns). 

11. Episemasia (Callippus, Conon, and Metrodorus). Siniin saye that 
thia is borne out hy experience. 

12, Winterly air @udoxus and Dositheus). 

13. Episomasia (Eudoxus); winierly air on land azul sea (Democritus). 
Ships that are at sea on this day put in to chore, and navigation to 
Persia and Alerandriaia suspended. For the sea has certain days when 
it is in nproar, when the air is turbid, the waves roll, and thick darkness 
lies over it. ‘Therefore navigation is impracticable. People say that at 
this time there arises the wind atthe hottom of the sea thet pnts the 
sea in motion. This they conclude from the appearance of a certain sort 
of fishes which then swim in the upper regions of the sea and on its 
surface, showing thereby that this storm is blowing at the bottom. 

Frequently, people say, this submarine storm rises a day earlier. 
Every eailor recognizes this by certain marks in his special sea. For 
instance, in the Chinese sea this submarine storm is recognized hy 
the fishing-nets rising of themselves from the hottom of tho sea to its 
surface, On the contrary, they conclude that the sea bottom is quiet if 
a, certain bird sits hatching her egga—for they hatch in a bundle of 
chips and wood on the sea, if they do not go on land nor sit down there. 
They lay their eggs only at that time when the sca is quiet, 

Further, people maintain that any wood which is cut on this day does 
not get worm-eaten, and that the whits ant does not attack it. This 
peculiarity perhaps stands in connection with the nature of the mixture 
of the air on this special day. 

14, Winterly air (Cesar) ; south wind or Eurns, i.e. sonth-east wind 
(Egyptians). 

15. Nothing mentioned, 

16. Winterly air (Cezar). 

17. Rain (Eudoxus) ; winterly air (Cesar); north wind during night 
and day (Cesar). 

18. Nothing registered. 

19. Sharp winterly air (Kudorus). 

20. North wind (Eudornsg) ; asvere winterly air (Egyptians). People say 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


ON THE DAYS OF THE OREEK CALENDAR. 237 


that on thie day ai animals that have no bones perish. This, however, 
is different in different countrics. For I used to bo molested hy tha 
guats, te, animals without hones, in Jurjin, whilst the sun was moving 
in the sign of Capricorn. 

21. Winterly air and rain (Euectemon and Dositheus). 

22. Very winterly air (Eudoxus). On this day people forbid to drink 
cold water during the night, for fear of tho Yellow Water. 

23, Rain (Philippus); winterly air (Eudoxua and Conon) ; continual 
south wind (Hipparchus and Egyptians). On this day falls the feast vf 
gathering the olives, and the fresh olive-oil is pressed. 

24, Light rain (Egyptians). 

25, 26. Nothing mentioned. 

27. In most cases a disturbance of the air on land and sea (Demo. 
critns) ; Episemasia (Dositheus); south wind and rain (Egyptians). 

28. Nothing mentioned. People say that on this day the waves of 
the sea roll heavily and that there is very little fishing. 

29. Winterly air (Eudoxus and Conon); weet or south wind and rain 
(Egyptians). 

30. Nothing mentioned by the authorities hitherto quoted, nor by 
others, 


Kénin I. (Decemher.) 


1. Wiaterly air (Callippue, Eudoxus, and Cesar). On this day people 
hold a fair in Damascus, which is called “the fair of the cutting of the 
ben-nut,” i.e. Nuz unguentaria. 

2 Pure winds (Zit. not mixed) (Euctemon and Philippus); sharp, 
winterly air (Metrodorus). 

8. Winterly air (Conon and Cwsar); light rain (Egyptians), 

4, (Micsing.) 

5. Winterly air (Democritus and Dosithcus). The same is confirmed 
by Siniin. 

6. Winterly air (Eudoxus); vehement north wind (Hipparchus). 

8. Nothing mentioned. 

9. Winterly air and rain (Callippus, Euctemon, and Eudoxus). 

10. Sharp winterly air (Callippus, Euctemon and Metrodorus); thundcr 
and lightning, wind and rain (Democritus). 

11. South wind and Episomasia (Callippus); winterly air and rain 
(Eudoxus and Egyptians). According to Sinin this is borne out by 
practical experience. Continued sexual intercourss on this day is objected 
to, which I do not quite understand. For sexual intercourse is not ap- 
proved of in autumn, in the beginning of winter, and at the times of 
epidemic disease ; on the contrary, at such times it is most noxious and 
pernicious to the body. Although we must cay that the conditions of 
aexual intercourse depend upon a great many other things, ay, eg. age, 


p.248. 


‘238 apirtst. 


time, place, austom, character, nourishment, the fulness or emptiness of 
the stomach, the desire, the fansle genitals, eto. 

12. Winterly air (Egyptians). 

13. Vebement south wind or north wind (Hipparchus). 

14, Winterly air (Eudozus) ; rain and wind (Egyptians). 

15. Cold north wind or south wind and rain (Egyptians). 

16. Winterly air (Caesar). 

197. Nothing mentioned. People forbid on this day to take of the 
flesh of cows, of oranges, and mountain balm, to drink water after yon 
lia down to aleep, to amear the camels with Niza (a dspilatory unguent 
made of arsenie and quick-lime), and to bleed anybody excapt him whose 
blood is feverish. The reason of all this is the cold and.the moistness 
of the season. This day people call the “ Great Birth,” meaning the 
winter-solstice. People say that on this day the light leaves those limits 
within which it decreases, and enters those limite within which it in- 
creases, that human beings begin growing and increasing, whilst the 
demons begin withering and perishing. 

Ka‘b the Rabbi relates that on this day the sun was kept back for 
Yosua the eon of Nin during three hours on a clouded day. The same 
story is told hy the simpletons among the Shi'a regarding the prince of 
the believers, ‘Ali b. Abi Talib. Whether, now, this story have any 
foundation or not, we must remask that-those who are beset by calamity 
find ite duration to be very long and think that the moment of liberation 
is very slow in coming. So, e.g. ‘Alf b. Aljahim said in a sleepless night, 


when he had gone out to war against the Greeks, oppressed by wounds 
and fatigue: 


« Has a stream swept away the moming, 
Or has aziother night been added to the night?” 


Afterwards on being released he indulged in hallucinations and lying 
reports. 

Something similar frequently happens on fast-daya, if heaven during 
the latter part of them be clouded and dark; ‘then people break their 
Sast, whilst shortly afterwards, when the sky or part of it clears up, the 
gun appears etill standing abuve the horizon, having not yet set. 
The charm-mongers say that it is a good omen on this day to rise from 
éleeping on the right side,and to famigate with frankincense in the 
Morning before speaking. It is also considered desirable to walk twelve 
consecutive steps towards the east at the moment of sunrise. 

Yahya b, "Al, the Christion writer of ‘Anbar, says that the rising-place 
of the sun at the time. of the winter-solstice is the true eaat, that he 
rises from the very midst of paradise ; that on this day the sages lay the 
foundations of the altars. Jt waa the delicf of this man tat paradise 


.is situated in the southern regions. But he hed no knowledge of the 


10 


.20 


80 


10 


20 


80 


40 


ON TRE DAYS OF THE -URREK OALENDAR. 289 


difference of the zaniths. Besides, the dogma of his own religion proves 
his theory to be erroneous, for their law orders them to turn in praying 


towards the east (i.e. the rising-place of the sur), whilst he told them that - 


the sun rises in paradise (i.e. in the south according to his theory). 
Therefore tha Christians turn to no other rising-place but to that onc of 
the equator, and they fix the direction of thoir churches accordingly. 

This theory is not moro curious than his view of the sun. For he 
maintains that ths degrees through which the sun ascends and descends 
are 860 in number, corresponding ta the days of the vear; that during 
the 5 days which ara the complement of the year the sun is neither 
ascending nor descending. Those are 23 days of Hazirfin and 2} days of 
Kanin I. 

A. similar idea hovered in the mind of ’Abi-alabbas Alimuli when he 
aaid in his book On the Proofs for the Kibla that the sun bas 177 rising 
and getting places, thinking evidently that the solar year bas got 354 
days. He, however, who undertakes what he does not understand, incurs 
ignominy. Those crotchets of his are brought inte connection with 
the argument regarding the 5 supernumerary days of the solar year 
and the 6 deficient days of the lunar year, of which we have already 
spoken. 

18. Nothing mentioned. 

19. South wind (Eudoxus, Dositheus, and Egyptians). 

20. Winterly air (Eudoxus). 

21. Episemasia (Egyptians). 

22, Nothing mentioned. 

23, Nothing mentiored. 

24, Winterly air (Cwsar and Egyptians) ; Episemasia and rein (Hip- 
parchus and Meton), 

25, Middling winterly air (Democritus). 

26. (Missing.) 

27. Nothing mentioned. 

28. Winterly air (Dositheus). 

29. Episemasia (Callippus, Euctemon, and Democritus). People forbid 
on this day the drinking cold water after rising from sleep. They say 
that the demons vomit into tho water, and that therefore he who drinks 
of itis affected by stupidity and phlegm. This scrves as a warning to 
people against that which they dread most. Ths cause of all this is the 
coldness and moisture of the air. 

30. Winterly air on the sea (Egyptians). 

81. Winterly air (Euctemon). 


Kénin M. (SJanuary.) 
1. Nothing mentioned by the Parapegmatists, 


2. Episemasia (Dositheus), Some people say that wood which is cut 
on this day will not soon get dry. 


p.250. 


240 aLBtir oni. 


8. Changeable air (Egyptians). 

4. Episemacia (Egy ptians) ; south wind (Democritus), which observa- 
tion is confirmed by Sin4n. 

5,6, Nothing montioned. People say that on the 6th there is an hour 
during which all salt water of the earth is getting sweet. All the 
qualities occurring in the water depend oxclusively upon the nature of 
that soil hy which the water ie enclosed, if it be standing, or over which 
the water flows, if it be running. Those qualities are of a stable nature, 
not to be altered except by a process of transformation from degree to 
degree by means of certain media. Therefore this statement of the 
waters getting sweet in this one hour js entirely unfounded. Continual 
and leisurely experimentation will show to any one the futility of thie 
assertion. , For if the water were sweet it would remain sweet for come 
space of time. Nay, if you would place—in this hour or any other—in a 
wellof salt water come pounds of pure dry wax, possibly the saltisbnece of 
the water would diminish. This has been mentioned hy the experimenters, 
who go co far as to maintain that if you make a thin vase of wax and 
placo it in sea water, eo that the mouth ef the vase emerges above the 
water, those drops of water which splash over into the vase become sweet. 
Tf all calt water were mixed with so much sweet water as would over- 
power ite nature, in that caso their theory would be realized (i. all salt 
watere would become sweet). Anexample of this process is afforded by 
the lake of Tinnis, ths water of which is eweet in autumn and winter in 
consequence of the great admixture of the water of the Nile, whilst at 
the other seasons it is salt, because there is very little admixture of Nile 
water. 

7. Winterly air (Eudexus and Hipparchus). 

8. South wind (Callippus, Euctemon, Philippus, and Metrodcrus) ; 
south wind and west wind and winterly air on the eca (Egyptians). 

9. Violent south wind and rain (Endoxus and Egyptians). 

The authors of talismans say that if yen draw the figuree of grapes 
on a table, between the 9th and the 16th of the month, and place it 
among the vines as a sert of offering jat the time of the setting of the 
Tortoise, te. Alnasr Abodkt', the fruit will not be injured hy anything. 

10. Violent south wind and Episemasia (Cousar and Egyptians), 

11. South wind (Eudozus and Dositheus); mixed winds (Hipparchus). 

13. Nothing mentioned. 

18. Winterly air (Hipparchus); a nerth wind or a couth wind blows 
(Ptolemy). 

14. Nothing mentioned. 

15. East wind (Hipparchus). 

16, Nothing mentioned. 

17. Violent wind (Car). 

18. Winterly air (Euctemon and Philippus) ; change of the air (Metro- 
dorus). 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE DAYS OF TRE GREEK CALENDAR. 241 


19. Winterly air (Eudoxus and Cesar); suffocating air (Egyptians). 

20. Clear sky (Euctemou and Democritus); uorth wind (Hipparchus) 
winterly air and rain (Egyptians). 

21. Middling winterly air (Eudoxus). 

22. Episemasia (Hipparchus); rain (Egyptians). 

23. Nothing mentioned. On this day people do not smear the camels 
with Nira (a depilatory unguent of arsenic aud quicklime), nor bleed 
anybody except in cases of special need. 

24, Clear sky (Callippus and Euctemon); middling winterly air (Demo- 
critus). Besides, the rule of the preceding day as regards the use of 
Névra and phlebotomy refers also to this day. 

25. East wind (Hipparchus). 

26. Rain (Eudoxus and Metrodorus); winterly air (Dositheus). 

27. Severe winter (Egyptians). 

28. South wind blows and Episemasia (Ptolemy). 

29. Nothing mentioned. 

80. South wind (Hipparchus). 

31. Nothing mentioned. 


Shabét. (February.) 


It is the leap-month. 1t appears to me that the following is the reason 
—hut God knows hest!—why people hava shortened this month in parti- 
cular so that it has only 28 days, and why it has not had assigned to it 
29 or 30 or 31 days: If it were assigned 29 days and were then to be 
incveased by the leap-day, it would have 30 days and would no longer be 
distinguishable from the other months in a leap-year. The same would 
be the case if it had 30 days, whether the year he a leap-year or not. 
Likewise if it had 31 days, the same similarity with the other months iu 
all sorta of years would exist. For this reason the leap-month has been 
assigned 28 days, that it might he distinguished from the other months 
both in leap and common years. 

For the same reason it was necessary that in the Greek year two 
months of more than 30 days should followeach other. For at the 
heginning they intentionally gave to each month 30 days and took away 
2 from Shubit. So they got 7 supernumerary days (i.e. the 5 Epago- 
mene and the 2 days of Shubat), which they had to distribute over 11 
months, because Shubat bad to be left out. Now, it was not possible to 
distribute the complete months of 30 days so as to fall each of them 
between two months of 31 days, fer the latter (ie. the months of 31 
days) are more in number than the former. Therefore it was necessary 
to let several months of more than 30 days follow each other. But the 
most importont subject of their deliberation was to add them in the 
places which would bs ths most suitable to them, so that the sum of the 
days of both spring and summer is more than the sum of the days of 


p-252 


. 242 aLrin tnt, 


autumn aud winter, a fact which ia the result of both anciontand modern 
observations. 

Further, their months cre proportional to each other in mest cases; I 
mean to say: the sum ef each month and of the seventh following one 
is 61 days, which is nearly equal to the time of the sun's mean motion 
through two signs of the zodiac. However, the sum of the days of Ab 
and Shubat is 59 days. This could not have been otherwise, for the 
reason wo have mentioned for Shubit. For if Ab had been assigned 
more than 31 days, it would have been different from all the other 
menths, and peeple would have thought that this in particular was the 10 
leap-month. As for Tammfiz and Kanin the Last, the sum of their days 
is 62. This, again, was necessary, because the number of tho nm. onths of 
more than 80 days is greater than that of the months of 80 days. 
Wherever the supernumerary day is placed the circumstances are always 
the same. And, further, intercalation has heen applied to Shubit to the 
axclusion of the other months only for this reason, that Adhfr I, 
which is the leap-month in the Jewish leap-year, falls on Shub&t and 
near it. 

1. Bain (Eudexus). The cold decreases a little. 

2. West wind or south wind intermixed with hail (Egyptians), Sinén 20 
saya that this is frequently the case. : 

8. Clear sky and frequently the west wind blows (Eudozus). 

4, Clear sky pnd frequently the west wind hlows (Desitheus); severe 
winterly air, rain and unmixed winds (Egyptians). 

&. Nothing mentioned. People say that the fuur winds aro in uproar. 

6. Bain (Cesar); winds (Egyptians); the west wind begins blowing 
(Democritus). 

7. Beginning of the blowing of the west wind, frequently the air ia 
winterly (Eudoxus and Egyptians). On this day the first Coal falls, 
called the minor one. 80 

8. The time of the blowing of the west wind (Callippus, Metrodorus, 
and Hipparchus) ; rain (Eudoxus 1nd Egyptians). This is confirmed by 
Sinfin aa borne out by his observations. 

9, 10. Nothing mentioned. 

11. Winterly air (Philippus and Metrodorus); west wind (Eudoxus 
and Egyptians). 

_12. North and east wind (Hipparchus) ; east wind alone (Egyptiaus). 

18, 14. Nothing mentioned. On the 14th fella the second Coal, called 

+258, the middle one, As the poet says: 
“ When Christmas hes passed and Epiphany after it, 40 
And ten days and ten days and five complete days, 
And five days and six and four of Shubit, 
Then, no doubt, the greatest cold vanishes. 
That is the time of the falling of the two Coals; afterwards 
The cold remains only a few nights.” 


10 


20 


30 


40 


ON THE DAYS OF THE GREEK OaLENDaR. 248 


15. Winterly air (Euctemon, Philippus, and Dositheus); changing 
wind (Egyptians); south wiud (Hipparchue). This day ie cold (Arabs), 
during which the coal is kindled. The Persians say: “ The Summer haa 
put hie hends into the watar.” On this day the moisture of the wood is 
flowing from the lowest parts of the trees to the highest, and the frogs 
begin croaking. 

16. Achange in the winds and rain (Egyptians). People say that on 
this day the interior of the earth is getting warm. In Syria the mush- 
roome are coming forth; those which stand near the root of the olive-tree 
are deadly poison, as people maintain. This may he true, for it is not 
approved of to take much of the mushroom and fungue, nor of that which 
is prepared from them. Its pharmacological treatment is mentioned in 
most of the medical compilations in the chapter of preparing poieons 
from there materials. 

1?. Nothing mentioned. 

18. West wind, and hail falle, or rain (Egyptians). 

19. Cold north wind (Hipparchus). 

20. Winde (Egyptians). 

21. Nothing mentioned. On this day the third Coat falla, called the 
great one. Between the falling of cach of the two Coals there is an 
interval of one complete week. They were called Cools because they are 
days characterised by the spreading of the heat from the interior of the 
earth to the surface, according to those who hold this theory. According 
to those who hold the opposite view, this change ie brought ahouthp the 
air’a receiving heat instead of cold from the body of the sun, for the 
body of the sun and the near approach of a column of rays are the first 
cause of the heat. With this subject also the question ia connected 
why the earthen jars or pipes of which subterranean channels are 
formed, and the water of wells, are warm in the winter and cold in the 
summer. 

Between ‘Abi-Bakr h. Zakariyyi Alrizi and ’Abi-Bakr Husain 
Altammir several questions and answers, expostulations and refutations 
have been exchanged that will satisfy the curiosity of the reader and 
inform him of the truth. 

The Arabs used these three days (the eo-called Coals) in their monthe 
until thcy got into confusion, as we have mentioned, and these days no 
longer fell at their proper times. Thereupon they were transferred into 
(we. fixed on certain days of) the Greck mouths which keep always their 
proper places. Qn the first day, people say, the Ist and 2nd «Adpare are 
getting warm, on the second the 3rd and 4th, on the third the remaining 
«Aivara. Further, they say that on the Coal-days vapours are rising 
from the earth which warm the earth on the let Coal-day, the water on 
the Qnd, and the trees on the 8rd. 

According to another view, they are daye noticeable for the rising of 
Lunar Stations, or come special parta of them ; whilst other subtle psople 


p.254. 


p.255. 


244 atsinont. 


maintain that they are the termini of the celd in winter, and serve to 
denote the differences in the beginning of heat and cold as known in 
the different countries. Seme inconsiderate and over.zealeus people of 
our ancestors have Intreduced these Coal-days into Khwariam, so that 
the first fell on the 2let of Shnbat, the second a wesk later, and the 
third two weeks after the second ons. 

22. A cold north-east wind hegins blowing and the swallows appear 
(Enctemon and Hipparchus). 

23. Winds are blowing and the swallows appear (Callippus, Philippus, 
and the Egyptians); rain et the time of the appearance of the swallows, 
north-east wind during four days (Endoxus, Conon, Callippus, and 
Philippus). 

24, Cold north wind and west wind (Hipparchus); north-east wind 
with other winds (Egyptiuns) ; days with changeable air (Democritus). 

25. Winterly air (Cesar and Dosithens). 

26, 27. Nothing mentioned. 

28. Celd north wind (Hippaxchua)}. 

In this month fall the Days of the Old Woman, t.e. seven consecutive 
days beginning with the 26th; if the year isa leap-year, four days fall 
into Shubat and thres into Adhar; if it is a common year, three fall 
into Shuh&t and four into Adhar. They are called by the Arabs by 
special names; the Ist is called Al-sinn, i.e. the severity of the cold, the 
2nd is called Al-sinnabr, i.e. a man who leaves things as Senbama, te. as 
aomething that is coarse and thick. The Nin } in this werd is net radical, 
the same ag in th dalansd, the plural of Leys) balagde, The third istheir 
brother .4/-wabr, so called from the verb 35, ie. ke followed the trace of 
these days. Tho 4th is called Alémir (commanding), because he commands 
people to beware of him. Tho &th is ALmu’tamir, is, ha hag on impulee 
of deing harm to mankind. Tho 6th is Al-mu‘allil, i.e. he diverts people 
by some relief which he affords. 

The 7th is Mutf’-aljamr (the extingnisher of ccals), the mest severe 
of them, when the coals used te be extinguished. It is also called 
Mukj?-alkidr (who turns the kettle upside down) in coneequence of the 
cold wind of this day. Same peet has connected these names in a 
versue memorialis in this way : 


“The winter is closed By seven dusty (days), 
Our Old Woman’s Days of the month ; 
‘When her days ccme te an end, 
Sinn, Sinnaby, and Wabtr, 
Amir, and his brother Mw’tamir, 
Mu‘alli, and Mutf?-abamr, 
Then the cold retires, passing away with the end of the menth, 
And a burning (wind) comes to thee from the beginning of the next 
menth,” 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE DAYS OF THE GREER CALENDAK, 245 


The 6th day is also called Sheibin, nod the 7th Ifithin. These days 
are scarcely ever free from cold and winds, the sky being dark and 
variously ooloured. Mostly during theso days the cold is most vehement, 
because it is about to ivr away (ie. to cease). And hence the Lunar 
Btation Alsarfa has got iis name, because its setting occurs about this 
time. 

Nobody need be astonished at the fact that the cold towards its end, 
when it is about to cease, is tha most severe and vehement. Quite the 
game is the casa with the heat, as wa shal] mention hereafter. Similar 
observations you may mske in quite common physical appearances. E.g. 
if the lamp is near the moment of extinction, because there is no more 
oil, it burns with an intense light, and flickers repeatedly, like the 
quivering (of human limbs). Sick people furnish another example, 
specially those who perish hy hectic fever or consumption, or tha disease 
of the belly, or similar diseases. For they regain power when they are 
near death; then thoss who are not familiar with these things gain new 
hope, whilst those who know them from experience despair. 

I havo seen a treatise of Ya‘kib b. Ishak Alkindi on the cause of this 

appearance in these days (i.2.of the vehemence of the cold during them). 
His whole argument comes to this, that the sun then reaches the quadro- 
ture of his apogee, which is the place of all changes, and that the sun’s 
influence upon the atmosphere is greater thau that of anything else. 
In thst case it would he necessary that that change whieh the sun effacts 
in ita own sphere should be proportional to that one which it effects in 
the atmosphere, and that this effect should on an average continue aa 
Jong as the moon stands in that quarter (of her own course) in whic’: tho 
effect commenced, and in that quartcref the sun in which the effect took 
place. 
T have heen told that ‘Abdallah b. ‘All, the muth ematician, in Bukhira, 
on having become acquainted with this treatise of Ajkindi, transferred 
these days into the calendar of his peopls in conformity with the amount 
of the progression of the apogee. Therefore ihey were called the Days 
of the Ola Woman of ‘Abdallih. 


[Zacrae. | 


Regarding the reason why these days were called the Days of the Old 
Woman, the ancients relate the following: They are the days which God 
mentions in his Book (Sira Ixix. 7), “ seven nights and eight days, unlucky 
ones,’ and the people of ‘Ad perished by their cold wind, their whirlwinds, 
and the other terrors which happened during them. Of all of them only 
one old woman remained, lamenting the fate of her nation. Her story 
is well mown. Therefore these days are said to have heen called the 
Days of the Old Woman. 

People say that the wind which destroved them was s, west wind, for 
the prophet says; “I have been assisted by the east wind—viz. on the 


4,256, 


246 ALBinont. 


Yaum-alkhandak—ond ‘Ad bas been destroyed by the west wind.” A 
poot saya: 


“The west wind bas dostroyed the sandy tracts of ‘Ad; 
So they perished, thrown down like the trunks of palm-trees.”” 


Farther, people say that the unlucky deys mentioned in the Coran (Shira 
xii. 15) coincide, each set of four of them, with a day of tho month in 
the date of which there is a 4, 1.2. the 4th, or the 14th, or the 24th from 
beginning or end of the month. 

Some people maintain that the Days of the Qld Woman received their 
names from this, that an old woman, thinking that it was warm, threw 
off her MtAsha’ (a sort of garment) and perished in the cold of these 
days. 

Some Arabs maintain that the Days of the Old Woman (Al‘ajis) were 
given this name because they are the ‘Ajuz, i.e. para postica, of the 
winter. 

We find that the Arabs have names for the five Epagomena between 
Ab&n-Mih and Adh4r-Mah like those of the Days of the Old Woman. 
The let is called Hinnabr, the 2nd Hinszabr, hoth words meaning the 
injury from cold ; the 8rd is called Kélib-alfthr (i.e. turning the braying- 
stone upside down), viz. through the vehemence of the wind; the 4th, 
Hélit-aliufr (ie. cutting the nail), for they mean that the wind is 8o 
sharp as ag. to cut the nail; the Sth is called Mudakeyj-albay (whirling 
about the dung), viz. in the plains, so that the vehemence of the wind 
carries it to human habitations. Somebody hae brought them into a 
verac in this way: 


“The first of them is Zinnadr, an excessive day, 
After him comes Hinzabr, one who strikes with the fors-foot, 
Sinking till he cones who exercises justice. 
And Kélb-alfhe is justly called thus; 
And {élit-alzufr who evidently cuts 
And splits the rocks hy the cold. 
After them the last of them, the fifth, 
Mudahrij-adba'r, the biting and licking one. 
There is no sixth name after it.” 


Adhér. 


1. Nothing mentioned by the Parapegmatists. People say that on 
this day the locusts and all ereeping animals come forth, and that the heat 
of heaven and the heat of the earth meet cach other. This is a somewhat 
hyperbolical expression for the beginning of the heat, ita increase and 
spreading, and for the air’s preparing itself for the reception of the 


heat. For the heat is nothing bnt the rays of the sun detached from 


10 


20 


30 


40 


10 


20 


30 


40 


ON THE DAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 247 


the body of the sun towards the earth or from the warm hody which 
touchss the inside of ths Lunar sphere, which is called Fire. 

Regarding the rays of the sun many theories have basen brought for- 
ward. Some say that thay are fiery particles similar to the easencs of 
the gun, going out from his body. Othere say that the air is getting warm 
by ita being situated opposite to the sun, in the esme way as the gir is 
getting warm by heing opposite to the fire. This ia the theory of those 
who maintain that the sun ia a hot, fiery subatanco. 

Others, again, say thut the air is getting warm by the rapid motion of 
the rays in the air, which is 60 rapid as te scem timelesg, i.e. without time 
(sertlos””). This is the theory of those who maintain that the nature of 
the eum has nothing in common with the natures of the four elements. 

Farther, there is a difference of opinion regarding the motion of the 
rays. Some say this motion is tinveless, since the rays are not bodies. 
Others say this motion proceeds in very short fime; that, however, there 
is nothing more rapid in existence by which you might measure the 
depree of its rapidity. 2g. the motion of the sound in the air is not so 
fast as the motion of the rays; therefore the former has been compared 
with the latter, and therehy its time (ic. the degree of its rapidity) has 
been determined. 

Aa the reason of the leat which exiats in the rays of the sun, people 
agsign the acuteness of the angles of their reflexiou. This, however, is 
not the case. On the contrary, the heat exists in the rays (is inherent in 
them). 

Regarding the body that touches the inside of the sphere, ie. the fire, 
people maintain thet is a simple elcmcnt like earth, water, and air, and 
that it isof a globular form. According to my opinion, the warmth of 
the sir is the result of the friction and violent contact betweeu the 
sphere, moving rapidly, and his hody, and that its shape is like a hody 
viich you get by making 2 crescent-like figure revolve around its chord. 
This explanation is in conformity with the theory, viz. that none of the 
existing bodies is m ite natural place, that all of them are where they 
are only in consequence of some force beiug employed, and that force 
muat of neceszity have had a beginning. 

On this svbject I have spoken in a more suitable place than this book 
is, specially in my correspondence with the youth ’Abi-‘Ali Albusain b. 
‘Abdallah b. Sind, consisting of discussions on this subject. 

Both sorts of heat are brought to hear upon the earth in an equal manner 
during the four seasons. The heat of the earth consiate either of the 
eolar rays that are reflected from its surface, or of the vapours that sre 
produced—according to one theory—by the heat of the interior of the 
earth, or—according to another—by that heat which accidentally comes 
to the earth from outside, for the motion of the vapours in the air causes 
them to get warm. 

The heat of the fire (ie. the body touching the iuside of the sphere) 


p-257. 


248 ALBIRON?. 


remning alwaya at the same distance (from us, ie. is alwaya of the eame 
degree), because the rotation of the oelestial sphere proceeds always at 
the same rate. And the reflected rays are not to be referred to the earth 
(ie. the earth is not to he considered aa their source), and the vapours 
reach only to a cortain limit which they do not go beyond. 

The author of this theory, I think, must believe that within the earth 
heat ie contained which procet-ds from the interior to the outside, whilst 
the air has hecome warm through tho rays of the sun. Thus the two 
sorts of heat weet each other. This, at all events, és a theory, if there is 
any; one must accept it. 

2. Cold north wind (Hipparcbus); south wind and fall of hail 
(Egyptians). 

8. Nothing mentioned. 

4, Cold north wind (Euctemon). Sinn saye that this is mostly true. 

5. Winterly air (Egyptians). Beginning of the XeAdovias (Causar) : 
they blow during ten daye. 

6 Troubled air (Egyptiane). Beginning of the cold dpyfia, which 
blow during nine days (Democritus). 

7, Nothing mentioned. Some people say that a change of the violent 
winds takes place. 

8. Episemasia and cold north wind (Euctemon, Philippus, and Metro. 
dorus); swallows and kites appear (Eudoxus). On the same day is the 
feast of the Small Lake of Alexandria. 

9. North wind (Euctemon and Metrodorus) ; violent south wind (Hip- 
parchua) ; light rain (Egyptians) ; the kites appear (Dositheus), 

10. Nothing mentioned. 

11. The anciente do not mention an apparent change on this day. 
Sinan says that there is frequently winterly air. 

12. Moderate north wind (Callippns). People say that on this day the 
traces of the winter disappear, and that phlebotomy is advisable. 

13. 'Opriac begin blowing; the kite appears (Euctemon and 
Philippus). 

14, Cold north wind (Euctemon and Hipparchus) ; west or south wind 
(Egyptians) ; dpveMac begin blowing (Eudoxus). 

15. Cold north wind (Euctemon and Egyptiane). 

16. North wind (Callippus). This Sinén confirms from his ex- 
perieuce. 

1?. Nothing mentioned. People say that on this day it is agreeable 
to go out on the sea. The snakes open their eyes, for daring the cold 
season, as I have found them myself in Khwiriam, they gather in the 
interior of the earth and rol] themgelves up ono round the other so 
that the greatest part of them is visible, and they look like a ball. In 
this condition they remain during the winter until this time. 

On this day (the 17th) in a leap-year, and on the 18th in a common 
year, takes place the equinor, called the first equinox. It is the first day 


10 


20 


80 


40 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE DAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 249 


of the Persian epring and of the Chineso autumn, ae we have mentioned. 
This, however, ie impossible, for spring and autumn or winter and 
summer cannot at one and the same time alternately exchange thoir 
places except in countries north or south of the equator. And China, 
having only few degrees of latitude, does not lie south, but north of the 
equator, in the farthest end of the inhabited world towards the east. 

The country south of the Line isnot known, for the equatorial part of 
the earth is too much burned to be inhabitable. Parts of the inhabited 
world do not reach nesrer the equator than to a distanco of severa) daye’ 
journey. There the water of the sea ie dense, because the eun eo 
intencely vaporises the emall particles of the water, that fishes and other 
animale keep away from it. Neither we nor any of those who care for 
thoee thinge have ever beard that any one las reached the Line or even 
peseed the Line to the south. 

Somo people have heen beguiled by the expressions “ Mquator Diet” 
and “Zinea Aiquitatis,” eo as to think that there the air is equal 
(moderate), juet as day and night there are equal. So they have made 
the equator the basis of their fictions, deecrihing it as a sort of paradise 
and ae being inhabited by creatures like angele. 

Ag to the country beyond the Line, someone maintaine that it is not 
inhabitable, hecause the eun, when reaching the perigee of hie eccentric 
sphere, etande nearly in its utmost southern declination, and then burns 
all the countries over which he culminates, whilst all the countries of 
65 degrees of southern latitude have the climate of the middle zone of 
the north. From that degree of latitude te the pole the world is again 
inhabitable. But the author of this theory must not represent thie as 
necessary, because excessive heat and cold are not elone the causes which 
render a country uninhabitable, for they do not exist in the eecond 
quarter of the two northern quarters, and still thet part of the world is 
not inhabited. So the mstter is (and will be), because the spogee and 
perigee of the eccentric aphere, the eun’e greater and less distance from 
the earth, are neceesitated exclusively by the difference in the sun’s 
rotation. 

*Ahi-Ja‘far has designed a figure different from the eccentric sphere 
and the epicycle, in which the eun’s distance from the earth, notwith- 
standing the difference of its rotation, is alwaye identical. Thereby he 
gets two regions, a northern and a eouthern one, equal to each other in 
beat and cold. 

The day of the equinox, as calculated by the Hindfis according to their 
Canon,—of which they are impudent enough to pretend that it is eternal, 
without beginning and end, whilst all tho other Canons are derived 
therefrom,—ie their Nauréz, a great feast among them. In the first hour 
of the day they worsbip the eun and pray fur happiness and hliss to the 
spirita (of the deceased}. In the middle of the day they worship the 
gun again, and pray for the resurrection and the other world. At the 


p.259 


250 ALBin Ont. 


end of the day they worship the sun again, and pray for health and 
happiness for their bodies. On the same day they make presenta to each 
other, consisting of precious objects and domestio animals, They maintain 
that the winds blowing on thie day are spiritus! beings of great use for 
mankind. And the people in heaven and hell look at each other 
affectionately, and light and darkness are equal to each other. In the 
hour of the equinox they light fires in sacred places. 

Thos omins of this day are the following, viz. : to rise from sleep lying on 
the back, the tree Saliz Zgyptia and to fumigate with ita wood before 
speaking, For he who porforms this will he free from all sorts of 10 
pain. 

People say that 2 man who has no children, on looking to the star 
Al-Suha in the night of this day and then having intercourse with his 
wife, will get children. 

Muhammad b. Mityér maintains that in the hour when this day begins 
to decline, (i.e. after noon,) the shadow of everything is half ite size. 
This, however, is only partially the case, not in general. It is true only 
for such places of which the latitudo is about 27 degrees. 

On this day the crocodile in Egypt ia thought to be dangerous. The 
crocodile is said to be the water-lizard when it hag grown up. Itis an 20 
obuosiogs animal peculiar to the Nile, as the thesking is peculiar to 
other rivers. People say that iu the mountains of Fustat there was a 
talisman made for that district. Around this taliaman the crocodile 
could not do any harm. On the contrary, when it came within its limita, 
it turned round and lay on its back, so that the children could play with 
it. But on reaching the frontier of the district it got up again and 
carried all it could get hold of away to the water. But this telisman, 
they say, has been broken and lost its power. 

18. Winterly air and cold winds (Democritus and the Egyptians). 

19. North wind (Hipparchus); winds, and cold in the moming go 
(Egyptians). 

20. North wind (Caesar). 

21. North wind (Budoxus). 

22, Nothing mentioned. 

23. North wind (Cwear) ; rain (Hipparchus). 

24, Rain and mizzle (Callippus, Euctemon, and Philippus); Episemasia 
(Hipparchus) ; thunder and Episemasis (Egyptians). On this day people 
like to purify the children by circumcision. The fecundating s-inde are 
caid to blow. 

60. 25. North wind (Eudoxus); Episemasia (Meton, Cor .n, and the 40 
Egyptians). 
' 26, Rain and enow-storm (Callippus); wind (Egyptinns). 

27. Rain (Callippus, Eudorus, and Meton). 

Of the rest of the month nothing is mentioned. Sinin says that 
the 80th frequently brings an Episemasia. God knows best! 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE DAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 231 


Nisin. 

1. Rain (Callippus, Euctemon, Meton, and Metrodorus). 

2. Nothing mentioned. 

8. Wind (Eudozus); rain (Egyptians and Conon). 

4. West wind or south wind; hail falls. Sinin says that this is 
frequently the cass. 

5. South wind and changing winds (Hipparchus). 

6. Episemasian (Hipparchua and Dositheus). This is confirmed hy 
Sinan. 

?. Nothing mentioned. 

8. Rain (Eudozus) ; south wind (Egyptians). 

9. Rain (Hipparchus) ; unmixed winds (Egyptians). 

10. Unmixed winds (Euctemon and Philippus) ; rain (Hipparchus and 
Egyptians). The raining is confirmed by the experience of Sinan. 

11. West wind and mizzle (Eadoxus). 

12, Nothing mentioned. 

18. Rain (Cwsar and Dositheus). 

14. South wind, rain, thunder, and mizzls (Egyptians). Sinan says 
that this is frequently the case. 

15. Rain and hail (Euctemon and Eudorus); unmized winds 
(Beyptians). 

16. West wind (Euctemon and Philippus) ; hail falling (Metrodorus). 

17. West wind and rain (Budoxus and Cesar) ; hail falling (Conon 
and Egyptians). 

18. Winda and mizzle (Egyptians). 

19. Nothing mentioned. 

20. Wind, south wind or another one, the ais unmixed (Ptolemy). 

21, Cold south wind (Hipparchus). Sinan maintains that this is 
freqnently the case. The water begine to increase. 

22. Rain (Hudoxug); winterly air (Cesar and Egyptians). People 
fear for the ships at sea. 

23. South wind and rain (Egyptians). People hold a fair at Dair- 
‘Ayyab. *Abd-Yahya b. Kunésa says that the Pleiades disappear under 
the rays of the sun during 40 days, and this fair is held when the 
Pleiades appear. So the Syrisns make them rise 15 days earlier than 
in reality thsy rise, because they are in a hurry to settle their affairs. 
This fair lasts ? days. Then they count 70 days until the fair of Bugra. 
Throngh these fairs, that areiheld alternately in certain places, the com- 
mercs of tho poople of thess countries has heen promoted and their 
wealth been increased. They have proved profitable to the people, to 
both buyers and sellers. 

24, Frequently hail falls (Callippus and Metrodorus) ; Episemasia 
(Democritus); south wind, or a wind akin toit, and rain (Egyptians). 
The Euphrates begins to rise. 


p-261. 


262 


252 ALBIRONY, 


25. Mizzte and rain (Eudoxus and Egyptians). 

26. Rain and frequently hail (Callippus and Enctemon); Episemasia 
and west wind (Egyptians). 

27. Dow and moistare (Cesar); winds (Egyptiane). 

28. Wind (Egyptians); rain (Eudoxus). Sinin confirms the rain 
from his own observations. On this, they say, the south wind blows, 
and then the streams and rivers begin to rise. This increage of tha 
water, however, does not apply to all streams and rivers uniformly ; on 
tha contrary, they greatly differ from each other in this respect. Ey. tha 
Oxus has high water when there is little water in the Tigris, Euphrates, 
and other rivers.- The fact ia this, that those rivers the sources of which 
are situated in cold placea, have more water in summer and lesa in winter, 
For the greatest part of ths ordinary volume of their water is gathered 
from springs, and an increase and decrease of them exclusively depend 
upon the fall of dew in those mountains where the rivera originata or 
through which they flow; thereupon the springs pour their volumes into 
the rivers. Now it is well known that dew-fall is more frequent in winter 
and heginning of spring than at any other seeson. In the countries far 
up to the north, where the cold is intenss, this dew-water freezes at those 
seasons. But when the air is getting warm and the snow melts, at that 
time the Orus rises. 

As for tha water of the Tigris and Euphrates, their sources are not so 
high up in the north. Therefore they have high water in winter and 
spring, hecause the dew that falls flowa instantaneously into the rivers, 
and that portion of water that may have heen frozen melts away in the 
beginning of spring. 

The Nile, again, has high water when therois low water in both Tigris 
and Euphrates, because its source lies in the Moxs Lune, as hax haen 
said, beyond the Abyssiuian city Assuan in the southern region, coming 
either exactly from the eqvator or from countries south of the equator. 
This ia, however, a matter of doubt, because the equatorial sona is not 
inhabited, as we have before mentioned. It is evident that in those 
regions there is no freezing of moist substances at all, If, therefore, the 
high water of tha Niie is cansed by falling dew, it is evident that the 
dew does not stay where it has fallen, but that it directly flows off to 
ths Nile. But if the high water is caused by the springs, theso have tha 
most abundant water in spring. Therefore the Nile has high water in 
summer, for when the sun is near us and our zenith, itis far distant from 
the zenith of those places whence the Nile originates, and which in 
consequence have winter. 

As to the question why the springs have the most copious water in 
winter, we must obssrve: the all-wise and almighty Creator, in creating 
the mounteins, destined them for various purposes and uses. Soma of 
them haye been mentioned by Thabit b. Kurra in his hook on the 
reason why the mountains wore created. Itis the same caves which 


10 


20 


$0 


10 


20 


80 


ON TBE PAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 203 


renders complete the intention (of the Creator) which he had in making 
the sea-water salt, 

Evidently more wet falls in winter than in summer, in the mountains 
more than in ths plains. When, now, the wet falls and part of it flows 
away in the torrents, the remaining part sinks down into the channels in 
tha mountsin caves, and there it is stored up. Afterwards it begius to 
flow out through the holes, called springs. Therefore the springs have 
the most copious water in winter, because the substance by which they 
are nourished is then most copious. If, further, these mountain caves 
ave clean and pure, the water flows out just as it is, ie. sweet. If that 
is not the case, the water acquires different qualities and peculiarities, 
the causes of which are not known to us. 

The bubbling of the fountains and the rising of the water to 4 certain 
height are to he explained in this way, that their reservoirs lie higher 
than they themselves, as is the case with artificial well-springs, for this 
is the only reason why water rises upward. 

Many people who attribute to God's wisdom all they do not mow of 
physical sciences (i.e. who excuse their ignorance by saying ‘ Allah ia 
ail-wise!”), have argued with me on this subject. In support of their 
viow they relate that they have observed the water rise in rivers and 
other watercourses, that the water the more it flows away (from its 
source) the more it rises. This they assert in complete ignorance of 
the physical canses and because they do not sufficiently distinguish 
hetweon the higher and lower situations (of the springs af rivers and of 
the rivers themselves). The matter is this, that they observed water 
flowing in mountain streamlets, the bed of which was gomgdownward at 
the rate of 50-100 yards and more for the distance of one mile. If tho 
pessants dig a channel somewhere in this terrain, and this channel is 
made to incline a little towards the country (ic. if the channel is rising), 
at firat the water flows only very little, until it rises to an enormous 
height above the water of the river; (then it commences to flow 
strongly). 

Tf, now, a man who has no training in these things believes that the 
natural direction of the river is to flow in a horizontal line or witha 
small inclination (upwards), he must of necessity imagine that the river 
is rising in height. It is impossihle to free their mind from this illusion 
unless they acquaint themselves with the instruments by which pieces of 
soil are weighed and determined, and by which civers are dug and 
excavated—for if they weigh ths earth through which the water flows, 
the reverse of what they believe becomes evident to them ;—or unless 
they study physical sciences, and learn that the water moves towards the 
centre of the earth and to any place which is nearest to the centre. 
There is no doubt that the water may rise to any place where you want 
to have it, even if it wers to the tops of the mountains, if previously it 
descends to a place which is lower than its maximum of agcant (which it 


2638, 


254 ALBinonf. 


ultimately reaches), and if you keep away from it any eubstance 
which might occupy the place instead of the water when it finds the 
place empty. Now, the water in its natural function ie only assigted by 
the cv-operation of something forcible which acts like an instrument, and 
thatie the air. This has frequontly been carried out in canals, in the 
midst of which there were mountains which it was impoasible to 
perforate. 

An illuetration of this principle is the instrument called Water-thief, 
xAeySpa. For if you fill it with water and put both ita ends into two 
vessels, in both of which the water reaches to the same level, then the 
water in the xAqfidps. standa still even for a long time, not flowing off 
into either of the two vessels. For the one vessel is not nearer (to the 
water) than the other, and it is impossible that the watershould flow off 
equally into hoth vessels, for in that case the inatrument would get 
empty. Now, emptiness is either a xon-exs, as most philosophers 
suppose, or it is an eng which attracts bodies, as othera believe. If, now, 
the vacuum cannot exist, the matter is impoesible, or if it ie aeomething 
which attracta bodies, it keeps back the water and doce not let it flow off, 
exceptita place he occupied by some vther body. But if you then place 
the one end of the «Aefridpa a little lower (than the other), the water 
flows immediately off into that direction. For if ita place has once 
become lower, it hae come nearer to the centre of the earth, and 40 it 
flows towards it, flowing continually in consequence of the adhesion and 
connection of the water-atoms amongst each other. It flows ao long 
until the water of that vessel, whence the water ia drawn, is finished, or 
until the Jevel of the water in the veaeel where it flows is equal to the 
level of the water in the vessel whence it is drawn. So the question 
returns to its original condition. On this principls people have proceeded 
in the monntaina. 

Sometimes even the water risee in artificial fountaine out of wells, in 
case they have got apringing water. For one sort of well-water, whichis 
gathered from droppings from the sides, does not rise at all; it ie 
taken from neighbouring maseea of water, and the level of the water 
which is gathered in this way is parellel to the level of those waters by 
which it ie nourished. On the other hand there is one kind of water 
which bubbles (springa) already at the bottom. Of this water people 
hope that it may riee to the earth and flow on over itaaurfacs. This 
latter kind of water is mostly found in countrics near to mountains, 
in the midet of which there are no lakes or rivers with deep water. 
Tf the source of auch water is a reeervoir much above the level of the 
earth, the water rises springing, if it is confined (to a narrow hed or 
channel); but if ita reservoir he lower, the water dues not suceecd in 
rising to the carth. Frequently the reservoir is higher by thousanda of 
yards in tha mountaing; in that case the water may rise up to the 
castles, and, eg., to the topa of the minarets, 


20 


80 


10 


30 


QN THE PAYS NF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 254 


I have been told that peopie in Yaman often dig until they come te a 
certain rock under which they know that there is water. Then they 
knock upon this rock, and by the sound of ths knocking they ascertain 
the quantity of the water. Then they boro a small hole and exanmne it ; 
if it is all right, they let the water bubble out and flow where it likes. 
But if they have some fear about the hole, they hasten to stop it up 
with gypsum and quicklime and to close it over ropcatedly. For 
frequently they fear that from such a bole a spring similar to the 
Torrent of Al‘arim might originate. 

As to tho water on the top of the mountain between Ahrashabr and 
Tia, a small lake of one farsang in cirenmference, called Sabzaréd, one 
of the following three things must be the case: 

1. Bither its materia] is dcrived from a reservoir much higher than 
the lake itself, although it may be far distant, and the water flows inte 
it in euch a quantity as corresponde to that which the sun absorbs and 
vaporises. Therefore the water of the lake remaing in the same 
condition, quietly standing. 

2. Or ita material is derived from a reservoir which lies on the same 
level with the lake,and therefore the water of the lake does not riage 
above that et the reservoir. 

8. Or, lastly, the condition of its sources in some way resembles that 
of the water of the instrument called Al-dahj, and the seif-feeding lamp. 
The case ie this: You take a water-jug, or an oil-vase; in several 
places of the edge or lip of the vase you make fine aplits, and you bore a 
narrow hole in it deeper than the mouth by so much aa you wish the 
water to remain in the jug and the oil in the vase (ic. the hole is to 
represent the line to which pcople wish the water or vil to risc). 
Thereupon you turn the jug upside down in the cup and the vase in the 
lamp. Then both water and oil flow out through the splits, until they 
reach the level of the hole. When, then, se much bas been consumed aa 
the hole allows to pass, then comes forth that which lies next to the 
hole. In this way both oil and water kecp the same level. 

Similar to this little lake is a sweet-water well in the district of 
the Kiinak in a mountain called Mankiy, as large asa great shield. The 
surface of its water is alwaye on a level with ite margin. Frequently a 
whole army drinks out of this well, and still it does not decrease as much 
as the breadth ofa finger. Close to this well there are the traces of tha 
foot, two hands with the fingers, and two knces of 2 man who had been 
worshipping there; also the traces of the foot of a child, and of the hoofs 
of anaes, The Ghuzzi Turke worship those traces when they sce them. 

Moreover, similar to thie is a small lake in the mountains of Bimiyan, 
one mile aquare, on the top of the mountain. The water of the village 
which lies on the slope of the mountain comes down from that lake 
through a emall hole in such a quantity as they require; but they are 
not able to make it flow more copiously. 


p.264, 


re. 


zoo ALRBIRONT. 


Frequently the springing (rising of water) occurs also in a plain 
ceuntry which gets its water froma reservoir ina high situation. If 
the rising power of the water wore kept down by an obstaclo, and then 
this obstacle is reinoved, the water begins at once to spring (rise). 
Eg. Aljaihinf has mentioncd a village between Bukhéri and Alkarya 
Albhaditha, where there is a hill that was perforated by diggers for hidden 
treasures, Suddenly they hit upon water which thcy were unable to 
keep back, and it has been flowing over since till thia day. 

Tf you are inclined to wonder, you may well wonder ata place called 
Filawin (Failawin) in the neighbourhood of Almilirjin. This place is 
like s portico dug out in the mountain, from the roof of which water is 
always dropping. If the air gets cold, the water freezes and hangs 
down in longicicles. I have heard the people of Almihrjin maintain that 
they frequently knock the place with pickazes, and that in consequence 
the spot which they knock becomes dry; but the water never increased, 
whilet reason would demand that it should always remain in the same 
condition if it does not increase, 

More wonderful even than this is what Aljaihfini relates in his 
Kitab. Almamilik wat-mostliz of the two columna in the grand mosque 
of Kairowan, the material of which people do not know. People main. 
tain that on every Friday before sunrise they drop water. It is curious 
that this should take place just ona Friday. If it occurred on any 
week-day in general, it would be combined with the moon’s reaching 
such and such a place of the aun’s orbit, or with the like of it. This, 
however, is not admissible, since Friday is a conditio sine gud non of this 
occurrence. The Greek king is said to have sent to bny them. He 
aaid: “ It is better for the Muslims to utilize their prize than to have 
two stones in the monque.” But the people of Kairawin refused, saying: 
* We shall not let them pass out of the house of God into that of the 
devil.” 

Still more marvellous than this ia the self-moving column in Alkaira- 
w&n. For it inclines towarda one side. People put something under- 
neath when it inclines, and this you cau no longer take away if the 
column again stande erect; if glass ia put underneath, you hear the 
sound of breaking and crushing. This is no doubt a got-up piece of 
artifice, as also the place where the column siands seems to indicate, 

We return to our subject, and say : 

29, Winterly air (Cesar); winds, or moisture of the ground, and rain 
(Egyptiang). 

30. Episemasis, (Egyptians); winds and dew, moisture and mizzle 
(Callippue and Euctemon). 

Ayydr. 

1, Mizzle (Egyptians). 

2. Nothing montioned., 

3. Wind, mizzle, dew, moisture, and thunder (Egyptians). 


10 


20 


30 


40 


ON THE DAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 257 


4, Bain (Eudoxus), mizzle (Egyptians). 

5. Rain (Dositheus). Sindn says tbat this is frequently the cass and 
that it hrings a strong episemasia. 

6. Wind (Egyptians), rain (Eudosus), mizzle and cpiscmasia. (Laewna.) 

Some people extend the rainy season a8 far as this day. It is tho 
time when the sun passes the (first) 20 degrces of Leo. In this respect 
the matter stands 2a we have explained it at the beginning of the rainy 
season, when the sun moves in Cancer. 

7. Winds (Egyptians). Siniin says that this is frequently the case, 

10 more particularly so if on the preceding day heaven has a rainy 
appearance. 

8. Gushes of rain (Eudoxus and Dosithens), rain (Egyptians), 

9, Rain (Egyptians). 

10. Episemasia and wind (Callippus and Euctemon), rain (Egyp- 
tians). 

11. Episemasia (Dosithcns), Siniin says that it is true. 

12. Episemasia (Eudozus, Metrodorus, and Hipparchus); rain 
(Cwsar); west-wind (Egyptians). People say that on this and the 
following day there is no fear of frost doing harm to the fruits. This 

20 remark can, however, only apply to one particular place; it cannot he 
meant in general. 

18. Rain (Budoxus) ; north wind and hail (Egyptians). 

14, Episewasia (Callippus, Euctemon, and Egyptians). 

15. Rain (Cesar). 

16. Episcmasia (Casar). People say that on this day the first 
Samim is hlowing. 

17. South wind or cast wind and rain (Hipparchus and Egyptians). 

18, Episemasia (Eudoxus) ; rain and thunder (Egyptians). 

19. Episemasia and mizzle (Hipparchus and Egyptians). 

30 =©.20. Nothing mentioned. 

21. Epissmasia (Cesar); south wind (Dositheus), west wind (Egyp- 
tians). 

22, 23, Nothing mentioned. 

24. Episemasia (Callippus, Euctemon, and Philippus); winds (Egyp. 
tians). 

25. Episemasia (Huctcmon, Philippus, and Hipparchus). 

26. Episemasia, (Callippus and Euctemon); cold north wind (Egyp- 
tians). 

27. Dew and moisture (Callippus and Euctemon); episemasia 

40 (Egyptiana). 

28, Rain (Mictrodorus and Egyptians). 

29. South wind or west wind (Hipparchus). 

30. South wind (Ciesar). 

31, Nothing mentioned. 


17 


p.266, 


267. 


258 ALBietxt 


Haziran. 


1. Dew and moisture (Endoxus and Dositheus); west wind 
(Egyptians). 

2. West wind (Egyptians). 

8. Wind and mizzle (Egyptians), and thunder. 

4. Rain (Crsar). 

5. Mizsle (Egyptians). Confirmed by Sinan. 

6, 7, 8. Nothing mentioned. 

9. West wind and thunder (Egyptians). 

10, 11, 12. Nothing mentioned. The 11th is the Nauréz of the Ithalif, 
when people in Baghdad splash in the water, etrew about dist, and play 
other games, as is well known. 

12. Sinan saye that frequently a change of the weather takes place. 

18. West wind and mizzle (Egyptians). 

14. Nothing mentioned, 

15. Mizzlo (Egyptians). 

16. Nething mentioned. People say that on this day the water sinka 
into the earth, whilst the Nile hegins to rise. The reason of thia is, as 
we have mentioned before, the difference of their sources and of other 
circumstances, those of the Nile atanding in direct opposition to those of 
all other rivera, 

Qn this day in a leap-year, and on the 17th in a commen year, the 
Plenitudo Mozima takes place, which is celebrated by Arabs and 
Persians. They callit Mirin, which means the Sun's getting full, ¢.e. the 
sumamer-solstice. On this day lightaubdues darkness. The light of the 
sun is falling into the wells, as Muhammad b. Mityar mentions; but this 
is only possible in countries the latitude of which is like the greatest 
declination, over which, therefore, the sun culminates, 

The Hayawdniyya-coct maintains that on this day the aun takes 
breath in the midst of heaven ; that, therefore, the epirite recegnise exch 
other in the greatest heat. It is considered as a good omen to look into 
the intense heat. People eat pomegranates before having eatenanything 
else, and Hippocrates is said to have taught that he whe eats s pome- 
grapate on this day hefore having eaten anything else, enlightens hie 
constitution and hia xupés is pare during forty mornings. 

People relate, on the authority of Hanna the Hind®, that Kisra Psrwiz 
has said: “Sleeping in the shadow ofa pomegranate cures a man of had 
disease and makes him safe from the demons.” ; 

It belengs to the omine ef this day to rise in the morning firm aleep 
on the left side, and to fumigate with saffron hefore speaking. 

17. Episemasia, (Dositheus); heat (Egy ptiaus). 

18. West wind and heat (Egyptians). 

19. Rain (Egyptians). 


10 


20 


ON THE DAYS OF THE UREEK CALENDAR. 259 


20. West wind, rain, and thunder (Egy ptiass). 

21. Nothing mentioned 

22. Episemasia (Democritus). 

23. South wind or west wind (Hipparchua). 

24. Nothing mentioned. People say that on this day the Samime 
begin blowing during fifty-one days. The Oxus rises aud frequently 
injures the shores and their inhabitants. 

25. West wind and heat (Egyptians). 

26. West wind (Democritus snd Egyptians). 

10 «27. Nothing mentioned. 

28. Episemasia (Eudoxns); west wind and south wind and rein 
(Democritus) ; then the north wind hegins to blow during seven days. 

29. Nothing mentioned. People sir that practival obververs examine 
on this day the dew; if it is copious, the Nile rises ; if it is not copious, 
the Nile does not rise, and they get a barren year. 

80, Winds (Egyptians) and unmixed air. 

81, Nothing mentioned. 


Tammi. 


1,2. Nothing mentioned by our authorities. 
20 38. South wind and heat (Cesar and Egyptians). 
4. Wind (@gyptians) ; frequently it rains in their country. 
5. South wind (Callippus, Metrodorus, and Hipparchus); west wind 
and thunder (Egyptians). 
6. South wind (Callippus and Metrodorus); west wind and thunder 
(Egyptians). 
7. Episemasia (Ptolemy). According to Sinin the weather frequently 
changes. 
8. Dew and moisture, according to Meton, in bis conntry. 
8. Dew (Euctemon and Philijpus); west-by-weat wind (Egyptians). 
80 10. Bad air (Egyptians). Qn this day they Legin to huld the fair of 
Pugra during 25 days; in the time of the Banh-’Umayya this fair used 
to last 30-40 days. 
11. Nothing meutioned. 
12. West wind (Metrodorus); winds (Egyptians). 
13. Unmixed winds (Hipparchns). According to Sinip the weather 
frequently changes. 
14. Heavy wind (Cesar); the north wind begins to blow (Hipparchus) ; 
heat (Egyptians). 
1&. Nothing mentioned. 
49 16. Frequently it rains in rainy countries (Ptolerzy); rain and whirl. p.268, 
winds (Democritus) ; heavy wind (Egyptians). 
17. Dew and heat (Dositheus and Egyptians). 
18 The Etesian winds (éryrfa) begin to blow (Hipparchus). Ac- 
cording to the general conscat of seamen and peasants,and all those who 
17 * 


260 aLstatst, 


havo experience in this subject, thia is the first day of tho dog-days, i.e. 
seven consecutive days, the last of which is the 24th of thismonth. On 
each of these days they draw conclusions frem certain chruges of the 
weather regarding the months of the autumn and winter and part of 
spring; these changes mostly occur in the evening and morning. 
People maintain that these days are to the year what the critical days 
aro to acute diseases, when their criteria appear, in consequence of 
which people conceive either hope or fear as to the end in which they 
will issue. Both words bihir and éufrdx in the Greek and Syriac 
languages are derived from a word which means the decision of the 
rulers (v. xpiows and xpimisog jacpa). According to another view, bubrén 
is derived from dakr (the Arabio for eez), because the critical state ef a 
sick person resembles the motion of the sea, called ebb and flew. This 
derivation is very likely correct, because of both appearances the metiona 
of the moon, her cycles and phases, are the cause, whether the moon 
revolves in a Great Circle, as it is in the case of the flow, fer the flow sets 
in when the moon reachea the western and eastern peint of tho horizon. 
The same is the case with the ebb, for it sets in when the moon reaches 
the sphere of the meridian of naon and miduight. Or whether it be 
that the moon revolves from one certain point of her cycle hack to the 
same, or from the sun to that point. So the dow is the strengest in the 
first half of the lunar month, the weakest in the second half. Besides, 
also, the aun has an influence upon this, It is curious what people relate 
of the Western Sea, viz. that there is flow from the side of Andalusia 
always at sunsct, that then the sea dccreascs at the rate of nhout 5-6 
farsang in one hour and then it ebhe. And this appearance takes 
place always precisely at this time. 

If on the evening of the 18th there ie a cloud on the horizon, people 
expect cold and rain at the beginning of TishrinL If the same is the 
case at midnight, the cold and rain will come in the middle of Tishrin I, ; 
and if it ie the case towards morning, the same will come in the end of 
that month. The matter is the same, if you observe a cloud on the 
horizon during dayiime; however, the changes of the sky in the night are 
more evident. And if you observe those changeson all feursides of the 
cempass, the same, too, will occur in Tiehrin I. Herein the nighte 
are counted after the days, as we ha. ntioned im the beginning 
of thie beck, in consequence of which tho: : whe count the nights before 
the days think that the night of the 18th is the 19th; therefore they 
consider the 19th as the first of the dog-days and the 25th as the last of 
them. . 

The 1st of these seven days serves to prognosticate the character of 
Tishrin I., the 2nd that of Tiehrin I1., the 3rd that of Kanan L., etc. ete., 
aud lastly, the 7th, that of Nisan. 

Practical observers prescribe the following: Take a plate come time 
before the dog-days, sow upen it all sorta ef seeds and plants, and let it 


10 


30 


30 


40 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE DAYS OF THE GREEK GALENIJIAR, 261 


stand until the 25th night of Tammfiz, ie. the last night of the dog- 
days; then put the plate semewhere outside at the time when the stars 
rise and set, and exposo it uncovered to the epen air, All sceda, then, 
that will grow in the year will he yellow in the morning, and all whose 
growth will not prosper will remain green. This csperiment the 
Egyptisns used to make, 

Practical ebservers have produced many contrivances for the purpuse 
of pregnosticating the character of the year hy help of these (the dog) 
days; they have evengone as far xs to use incantations and charms. So 
some people maintain that if you take the leaves of twelve different olive- 
trees, and write wpon each leaf the name of some Syrian month, if you 
then put them, in the night we have mentioued, somewhere in a wet place, 
you will find that, if a leaf has dried up in this night, the month which 
was Written upen it wil] be rainless. 

According to others, you learn whether the year will bave much rain 
er little, hy this method: You look ont for a level place, around whieh 
there is nothingthat might keep off the dew, wind, and light rain; then 
you take two yards of a cotten dress, vou weigh it and keep in mind its 
weight. Then you spread it over that place and leave it there during 
the first feur hoursof the night. Therenpon you weigh it a second time: 
then each AMithki? which it weighs more the second time than the first 
time signifies ene rainy day in that month which stands in relation with 
this particular dog-day of which we have heretofore spoken. 

These dog-days are the time of the rising of Sirins (Kalb-aljabbir or 
Alshitra Alyaminiyx Al'abir), Hippecrates, in his hook ef the seasons, 
forbids taking hot drugs and bleeding twenty days hefore and after the 
rising ef this star, because it isthe hottest time of summer aud the 
heat reaches its maximum, and because summer time hy itself warms, 
dissolves, and takes away all moist substances. However, Hippocrates 
does not forbid those things if yon take but very little of them. After- 
wards, when autumn comes with its cold and dryness, you cannot he sure 
whether the natural warmth may not be entirely estingnished. 

Some people who kave no pvactice iu physical sciences and no knowledge 
of the peréupa, thins that the influence we have mentioncd must he 
attributed to the hody of this star, to its rising aud revolution. They 
go even as far as to make people imagine that the air is warmed hy its 
great mass; that, therefore, it is necessary to indicate anid to explain its 
proper place and to determine tite time of its rising. The same opinion 
is indicated hy the verse of *Abi-Nu’as : 


“lal has gone and the hot night-wind passed away, 
And Sirius has extinguished his fire.” 


For this reason ‘Ali b. ‘Ali, the Christian secretary, maintains that the 
first of the deg-days is the 22nd of Tammiiz, suggesting that the dog- 


p.269, 


262 ALBIRON?. 


days have chauged their place along with the star itself, whilst J maintain 
that Sirius always revolves during the wholes year in one and the same 
orbit parallel to the equator. Hippocrates, however, mesnt by thie time 
tbe central portion of the summer, the period when the heat is greatest 
. in consequence of the sun’s being near to our zenith, whilst heat the 
same time begins in his eccentric sphere to descend from the apogee of 
hisorhit. And this event wasin the time of Hippocrates contemporaneons 
with the rising of Sirius. Therefore he has only said im general at the 
time when Sirius risea, knowing that uo scientific man could misunder- 
stand the truth. Fer if Sirius chauged its place so as to advance 
even as far as the beginning of Capricorn or Aries, the time during 
which he forhide taking drugs would not therefore advance in the 
same Way. 

Sinfn says in his Kitéd-alanwdt that the shepherds have seven 
apecial daya of their own, beginning with the Ist of Tammdz, which 
they use like the dog-days, drawing from them conclusionsregarding the 
single winter months. They are known as “* the dog-daya of the shepherds.” 
The weather of these days is always different from that of the time 
iminediately preceding and following. During all or at least some of 
them heaven is never free from a speck of clouds, 

19. West wind or heat (Egyptians). The waterdogs are getting strong 
end do mach damage. 

20, West wind or a similar one (Egyptians). Practical observers say 
that on this day frequent cases of inflammetion of the eyes occur. 

21. The Etesian winds are blowing (Euctemon); the heat begins 
(Callippus, Euctemon, and Metrodorus). 

22. Bad air (Euctemon) ; beginning of the heat (Hipparchus) ; west 
wind and heat (Egyptians). 

23, Winterly sir on sea, winds (Philippus and Metrodorus) ; beginning 
of the blowing of the Etesian winds (Egyptians). On this day “Ahi. 
Ja‘far Almansir began to build Baghdad, that part which is called 
Mansir’s-town, on the western side of the Tigris in the presevt Baghdad. 
This was A. Alexandri, 1074. Astrologers are obliged to know dstes 
like this, and must date from such an epoch by means of their Imowledge 
of the Permutotiones, Terminationes, Cycles, and Dircctiones, until they fine 
the horoscopes of those people who were born at those times. It was 
Neubakht who determined the time (for the commencement of building). 
The conatellation which heaven showed at the time, and the stations of 
the planeta which sppeared on heaven, were such as are indicated in 
the following figure. 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE PAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 263 


Scorpio 


19.10 


24, Winds (Philippus and Metrodorus); the Etesian winds blow 
(Hipparchus). 

25. South wind (Eud oxusand Casar) ; west or south wind (Egyptians). 
Sexual intereonrss and all exertion are forbidden, because it is tbe tims 
of the greatest heat. The river Oxus hegins to rise. 

26. South wind and heat (Philippus, Meton, Metrodorus, Democritus, 
and Hipparchus). 

27. Dew and wet, and oppressive air (Enctemon and Dosithens). Thia 
oppressive air mostly occurs when heaven is covered and the air is in 
perfect repose. But often, too, this is peculiar to a place whera this 
causa dogs not exist, eg. to the region beyond that bridge which, 
according to Aljaihint, was in old times built by the Chinese, reaching 
from the top of one mountain to that of another on the road that leads 
from Khotan to the region of the residence of the Khikan. Fer these 
who paas this bridge come into an air which makes breathing difficult 
and the tongue heavy, in consequence of which many travellers perieh 
there, whilst others are saved. The Tibetans call it the “ peisen- 
mountain.” 

28, Nothing mentioned. 

29. Beginning of the Etesian winds (Dositheus); heat (Egyptians). 
They hold the fair of Busra for a whole month, and that of Salamivya 
for two weeks. 

80. The Etesian winds blow (Eudoxus): west wind aud heat 
(Egyptians). 

$1. South wind (Cesar). 


Ab. 
1. Heat (Hipparchus). 
2. Nothing mentioned. 
3. Dew fails (Eudoxus and Dositheus) ; episemasia (Uresar). 
4. Great heat (Eudorus). 
5. Hest, atill and oppressive air, then blowing of winds (Dositheus 


p.271 


p.272. 


W3. 


264 atBinGnt. 


and Egyptians). Thoy hold a fair at ’Adhri‘it during fiftesn days, also 
io Al’ urdunn, and in ssveral districts of Palestine. 

6, 7. Nothing mentioned, 

&. The air is etill and oppressive (Callippus); wind, and intense heat 
(Egyptiens), According to Sinan, frequently there occure a change of 
the air. 

9. Heat and still air (Euctemon and Ceasar) ; south wind and turbid 
air (Egyptians). 

10. Heat and still air (Kudoxus, Metrodorus, and Dositheus); 
episemasia (Democritus). At this time the heat is very intense. 

11. The northerly winds cease to blow (Callippus, Euctemon, and 
Philippus); heavy wind (Eudoxus); different winds blow together 
(Hipparchus) ; thunder (Egyptians). According to Sinan there is 
always a change of the weather on this dey. He says: I do not know 
whether we, I and all those who make meteorological obssrvations, are 
correct in describing a day like this. On this day there is almost always 
a change of the weather fer the better. It is the firat day when the air 
of Al‘irik begins to be agreeable. Sometimes this change is most 
evident, whilstat other times itis only slightly perceptible. But that the 
day should be free from such a change, almost never occurs. 

Some of the ancients consider thia day as the beginning of the 
antumnal air, whilst others take as such the following day. 

Sinan says: Thabit used to say: If in a rare year that which we have 
deacrihed does not take place on this dav it is not likely to take placa 
on the 18th or lth, but rather in the riddle of Ab. If it takes place 
on the 11th, a season of agresable air is sure to return about the middle 
of the month, though it may only be short. 

12. Heat (Euctemon and Egyptians). 

13. Episemasia and still air (Casar). Sinfin says that on thia day an 
isregular change of the air frequently occurs. 

14, 15. Nothing mentioned. 

16. Episemasia (Cresar). 

12, Episemaaia (Eudoxus). 

18 Nothing mentioned. The Samima are said to cease, 

19. Episcmasia, rain, and wind (Democritus); west wind (Hgyptians). 

20. Episemasia (Dositheus) ; heat and density in the air (Egyptians). 

21. Nothing mentioned. 

22, West wind and thunder (Eudoxus) ; episemasia and bad air (Cesar 
and Egyptians). 

28. West wind (egyptians). 

24. Epiaemasia (Budoxus and Metrodorus). Tha heat relaxes a little 
at the time when the sun passes the firat 6 degrees of Virgo. 

25. Episemasia (Eudoxus); south wind (Hipparchus); heat (Egyp- 
tians). 

26, Rotating winda (Hipparchus). Between this day end the first of 


10 


80 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE DAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 265 


the Days of the Old Woman (i.e. 26 Shuhit) lies one half of a complete 
year. On thia day the heat, at the time when it is about to disappear, 
returns oncs more with renewed force, as does alsotha cold at the tima 
when it is about to disappear. It isa time of ssven days, the last of 
which is the Ist of Tlil, called by the Arabs Wakdat-Suhail (i.e, the 
humming of Suhail). It is the time of the winds that accompany tha 
Yising of AYjabha (Frons Leonte, the 10th Lunar Station), hut as Suhail 
rises in ita neighbourhood, it has become the prevailing use to eall the 
time hy Suhai and not by Atjabha. The heat of these days is more 
intense than at any time before or afterwards, But after this time the 
nights begin to he agreeable. This is an occurrence generally known 
among people, which scarcely ever fails. Muhammad h. ‘Abd-almalik 
Alzayyit says: 


“The water had become cold and the night long, 
And the wine was found to ba sweet ; 
Haztrin had left you, and Tamméz and Ah.” 


27. Epissmasia (Philippus). 

28. Weat wind (Egyptiana). 

29. Rain and thunder; the Etesian winds are about to cease (Eudexus 
and Hipparchus). 

80. Episemasia (Hipparchus). 

81. The Etesian winds are about to ceass (Ptolemmua); changing 
winds (Eudoxrus); winds, rain, and thunder (Cesar); east wind 
(Hipparchus). 


idl. 


1, Episemasia and the Etesian winds are getting quiet (Callippus). A 
fair is held at Manbij (Mabbug) 

2. Density in the air (Metrodorus). Conon saya that on thie day the 
Etesian winds cease. 

8. Wind, thunder, and density in the air (Eudoxus); wet and dew 
(Hipparchus) ; fog, heat, rain, and thuoder (Egyptians). On this day 
people hegin to light their fires in cold countries. 

4. Dense and changing air (Callippys, Euctemon, Philippus, and 
Metrodorus); rain, thunder, and chwngiog wind (Eudoxusa). 

5. Changing winds and rain, and the Etcsian winds are getting quiet 
(Cassar); raine and winterly air at sea,and south wind (Egyptians). On 


this day midsummer ends, and a time comes which is good for bleeding p.274 


and for taking drugs during ferty daya. 
6, West wind (Egyptians). 
?. Density in the air (Philippus); episemasia (Desitheus). 
8. West wind and episemasia (Egyptiana). 
9. Nothing mentioned. 
10. The air is not troubled (mixed) (Desitheus). 


266 ALBINON?. 


11. The north winds are ceasing (Ceasar). 

12, South wind (Eudozug). 

18. Episemasia (Callippus and Conon). 

14. The north winds are ceasing (Eudorus) ; episemasia (Democritus 
and Metrodorus). After this time no swallow is seen. 

15. Wet ond dew (Dositheus); rains and episemasia (Egyptians). 

16. Density in the air, and rain at sea (Hipparchus). 

On the 16th in a common year and on tha 17th in a leap-year occurs 
ths second equinoz, which is the first day of the Persian autumn and 
the Chinese spring, as people maintain. But we have already explained 
thst this is impossible. 

The winds, now, blowing on this day are said to be of s psychical 
nature. To look towards the clouds that rise on this day emaciates the 
hody and affects the soul with disease. I think the reason of this is 
that people conceive fear on account of the cold and the disappearance 
of the agreeable tims of the year. 

It ig one of the omina of this day to rise from sleep in a worshipping 
attitude, and to fumigate with tamarisks hefore speaking. 

People say that if a woman who is sterile looks on this day at the star 
Alsuhé and then haa intercouras with her husband, she is sure to 
conceive. 

Further, they say, that in the night of this day the waters are gatting 
eweet. We have already heretofore shown the impossibility of suchs 
thing. 

This second equinox is, according to the Canon Sindhind, a great 
festival with the Hindis, like the Mihrjin with the Persians. People 
make each other presents of all sorta of valuable objects and of precious 
stones. They assemble in their temples and places of worship until 
noon. Then they go out to their pleasure-grounds, snd there they 
assemble in parties, showing their devotion to the (Deity of) Time and 
humbling themselves befere God Almighty. 

17. Rain at sea and density in the air (Metrodorus). 

18. West, then cast wind (Egyptians). 


19. Wet and dew (Eudoxus) ; west wind, mizzle, and rain (Egyptians). 


On this day the water returns from the upper parts of tha treee to the 
Toots. 

20, 21. (Missing.) 

22. Nothing mentiousd. 

28. Rain (Eudoxus); west wind or south wind (Hipparchus). 

24. Nothing mentioned. On this day the fair of Thu‘ilibs is hald. 
Practical obeervers say that people mark on this day what wind is con- 
stantly hlowing ‘intil night or until the time when the sun begins to 
dacline; for this will be the most constant of all the winds of the 
year. This day they called the Turning of the winds. The white-aid- 
black crows appear on this day in most countries. 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE PAYS OF THE GREEK CALENDAR. 267 


25. Episemasia (Hipparchus and Eudoxus); weat wind or south wind p.275, 
(Egyptians). 

26, 27, 28. (Mfissing.) 

29, Episemasia (Euctemon and Eudoxzus); west wind or south wind 
(Hipparchna). 

80. Nothing mentioned by theancients, either about the air or anything 
else. 


This, now, is the calendar used br the Greeks, to which we have added 
al) that Sinan has mentioned in his Kitéh-al’anwdé. This is the concise 
10 summary of his book. We have not kept back anything which we have 
learned regarding the days of the calendar. We quote them by the 
names of the Syrians (¢.¢.u8 the lst of Tishtrin, Kingén, etc.) only, because 
they are generally Inown among people, and because thie serves the sams 
purpose (as if we were to call them by the Greek names). 
Next we shall speak of the memorable days in the months of the 
Jows, if God Almighty permits! 


268 aLsizint. 


CHAPTER XIV. 


OF THE FESTIVALS AND FAST-DAYS IN THE MONTHS OF THE JEWS. 


Avrer having explained the method how to learn the beginning of the 
year of tha Jews, and its character,—after having solved this problem by 
the help hoth of computation and tables,—after having shown the 
alTangement of the months according to their beginnings and to the 
number of their days,—we hold it now to be necessary to explain their 
festivals and memorabls days. For getting acquainted with them wa 
shall at the same time learn the reason why they, even New-Year’s Day 
iteelf, are not allowed to fall on certain days of the week. We begin 
with the first month, ce. 


Behr. 


It has 30 days and only one Résh-Hédesh. As wa have explained 
hefore, the lst Tiehri eannot fall on a Sunday, Wednesday, or Friday 
YIN. When, according to calculation, it ought to fall on one of these 
days, it is disregarded, and New-Year’s Day is either the fc’lowing day, 
if it is a Dies licite, or the preceding day, in casa ths following one is not 
a Dies licita according to the conditions that have been laid down in the 
Tabula Terminorum. in the first part of this book. This proceeding of 
theirs they call 7177. The 2st is the feast of New.Year, when they blow 
the trumpets and trombones, which are rams-horns. All work ceases on 
this day as on Sabbath. On this day, the, maintain, Abraham offered 
his son Isaac, but then Isaac wea ransomed by meaus of a ram. 
According to Jews and Christians, the person offered was Isaac, whilst 
there is a passage in the Coran in the Stra Wel-sdffit (Sira xuxxvii. 99- 
113), showing that it was Ishmael. And, according to tradition, the 
Prophet is repoted to hava said: “Iam the sun of the two sacrificed 
ones,” meaning ‘Abdallah b. Almuttalib and Ishuacl However, the 
discussion of this question is a subject of great extent. God lmows 
best ! 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


30 


FESTIVALS AND FASTS OF THE IRIS. 269 


8. Fasting of Gedalyaé b. "Abikim, the governor of Nebucadnezar 
over Jerusalem. On this day he was killed, together with eighty-two 
people, in a cistern in which the water collected until it rose shove their 
heads. In consequence the Israclites were stricken with sorrow, and havc 
ever since fasted on the day of his death. 

5. Pasting of ‘Akibha. People wanted to compel him to worship the 
idol; he, however, did not suhmit. So they put him iuto a cage where 
he died of hunger, surrounded by twenty fellow prisoncrs. 

7. Fasting of punishment. Its origin is this, that David, on having 
counted the Israelites, rejoiced in their number, and people themselves 
were puffed up on account of their great uumber, so as to go astray. 
Therefore God hecame angry with them, and sent the prophet Nathan to 
David and the assembly of the tribes to threaten them with the sword, 
with famine, and sudden death. His threatening was fulfilled. So they 
were stricken with fright, and have ever since fasted on this day. 

On the same day the Israclites killed each other on account of the 
worship of the calf. They say that it was Aaron who made the calf, and 
ao it is related in the Thora. 

The Jew Ya‘kib bh. Misi Alnikrisi (i.e the physician) told me in 
Jurjin the following: Moses wanted to leave Egypt together with the 
Israelites, but Joseph the prophet bad ordered that they should 
take his coffin along withthem. As he, however, was huried in the 
bottom of the Nile and the water flowed over him, Moses could not get 
him away. Now, Moses took a piece of a paper and cut it into the 
figure of a fish; over this he recited some sentence, hreathed upon it, 
wrote something upon it, and threw it into the Nile. Waiting for the 
result he stayed there, following the course of the river, but nothing 
appeared. So Moses took another piece of paper and cut it into the 
figure of a calf, wrote upon it, recited over it, breathed upon it, but then, 
when he was just about to throw it into the water,as he had done the 
first time, the coffin appeared. So he threw away the figure of the calf which 
he just held in his hand, but it was taken up by one of the bystanders. 

Afterwards, when Mosea disappeared on the mountain to speak with 
the Lord, and when the Israelites hecame anxious at his staying there so 
long, they pressed Aaron and demanded of him that he should give thea 
x viceregent instead of Moses. Aaron, no doubt, did not know what to 
do; so he said: “ Bring me all the precious ornaments of your women.” 
So he spoke in order to gain time, knowing that the women would not be 
in a hurry to part with their ornaments. Possibly Moses might return 
before that. But it happened that the women gave up their ornaments 
most speedily. They fetehed Aaron and he melted the ornaments and 
poured them into a mould; but the result was nothing hut broken 
pieves of ingels. The same work he repeated in a hurry, hoping for the 
return of Moscs and for news of him. Now he happened to have with 
himself the figure of that calf (which Moses had cut out of paper). So 


p-276. 


p.27?, 


270 anetront. 


he said to himsslf: “By the figure of the fish once a wonderful miracle 
has been wrought. Now, let me see what the figure of ths calf will 
produca!” He took the figure and threw it into the molten gold; when 
then the liquid mass was poured into a mould, it was formed into a calf 
which roared. Thereby the people were at that time seduced from ths 
true helief without Aaron's having intended it. 

10. Fasting of Kippér, also called Al-dshird. This faat-day is 
obligatory, whilst all ether ones are voluntary. Kippir-faating begins 
half an hour befors sunset of the 9th and lasts until half an hour after 
sunset of ths 10th during 25 hours. In this way, too, al] the voluntary 
fast-days are held. Therefore it is impossible that two of their fast- 
days should immediately follow each other, because one hour would 
belong to both of them in common, and because there weuld be no 
possibility of breaking ths fast between them. Ya‘kib, however, main- 
tains that this is a peculiarity only of this fast-day, whilst in the case 
of all the other fast-days itis allowed to fast in the same way (3.6. ths 
same length of time) that the Muelims do. 

On this day God addressed Moses the son of Amram. Tho fasting cf 
this day is an atonement for all sins that are committed by mistake. 
The Jewish law orders everybody to be killed who does not .ast on this 
day. They recite five prayers on this day, prostrating themselves upon 
the earth, which is not the custom on the other festivals. 

15. The feast of Tabernacles, lasting seven consecutive days, during 
which they rest under ths shadow of willows and reeds and other branches 
on the roofs of their houses, This is obligatory only for him who dwells 
at home, not for the traveller. On these days all work ceases, as God 
says in the third book of the Thora (Levit. xxiii. 34-43): “And on ths 
fifteenth of the seventh month is the feast of Tahernacles. Then yon 
shall not work during seven days. Yeu shall celebrate a feast before God 
and you shall sit in the tenta, the whole house of Israel, during seven 
days, that your (future) generations should know that it waa I who 
made the Israelites dwell in tabernacles, when I led them out of Egypt.” 
This feast is celebrated by the whole Jewish nation, whilst ‘Abd-‘Tsa 
Alwarrik says in his Kitdb-almakdldt of the Samaritans that they do not 
celebrate it. 

The lust or seventh day of the feast of Tabernacles, the 2lst of the 
month, is called ‘Ardébhd. On this day the clouds stood over the beads 
of the Israelites in the desert Altth. 

On ths same day is the feast of the Congregation, when the Jews 
assemble in Hérhard of Jerusalem, carrying around in procession the 
Ark of the Covenant, which in their synagogues is like the pulpit 
(Minbar) in a mosque. 

22. The feast of Benediction, by which this feast-time is completed. 
All work ceases. They maintain that on this day the communication of 
the Thora was finished, and that the Thora was handed over to their 


10 


20 


30 


40 


10 


20 


30 


FESTIVALS AND FASTS OF THE JEWS. 271 


chiefs to be deposited in their synagogues. On this day they take the 
Thora out of its shrine, they bless themselves by it, and try to derive 
auguries from unfolding and realing it. 


Marheshwan. 


It has always two Hosh-Hodesh, and it has 30 days ina Perfect year 
and 29 days in an Intermediate year or in an Imperfect one. On thess 
two Rosh. Hodesh there is no feast. 

6. Fasting of Zedekia. Its origin is this, that Nebukadnezar killed the 
children of Zedekia, whilst ha stood before them, patient and enduring, 
not weeping nor manifesting any sign of despair. Thev hoth his eyes 
were put out. Therefore the Israelites were stricken with sorrow, and 
have ever since fasted on this day. 

Differing herefrom, other people fix this fast-day onthe Monday failing 
between the 8th and the 13th of this month. This, however, is not like 
a method suitable to Jewish ways; it is rather like Christian theorias. 
The generality of Jews fix their fast-days on certain dates in the mouths, 
not on week-days. 

Kislew. 

It has only one Rosh-Hodesh ina Perfect year. It has 30 days in a 
Perfect. and Intermediate year ; 29 iu au Imperfect year. 

8. A fast-day. Its origin is this, that Yehoyakiin hurned the papers, 
called FMP ic. the Lamentations. They contained a promise of God, and 
were brought hy the prophet Jeremia. They treated of the condition of 
the Israelites in future times and of the calamities that would befall them. 
Jeremia sent the book through Barukh b. Nerigya, but Yehoyakim 
threw it into the fire, and therefore there arose manifold lamentations. 

Other people fix this fasting on the Thursday falling between the 19th 
and the 25th of this month. 

25. Beginning of the feast Hanukhdé, ie. purification. It lasts eight 
days, during which they light tamps at the door of the hall; on the first 
night one lamp for each inhabitant of the honse, un the second night 
two lamps, in the third ‘three, ete. etc., and finally eight lamps on the 
eighth night, by which they mean to express that they incrcase their 
thauks towards God from day Lo day by the purificalicn and sanctification 
of Jerusalem. The origin ig this: Antiochus, the king of the Greeks, 
had subdued and maltreated them during a long period. It was bis 
custom to violate the women, before they were lcd to their spouses, in a 
subterranean vault. From this vault two cords led outside, where two 
bells were fixed at their ends. When, now, he wantec a woman, he rung 
the right hell, and the woman entered; when he had done with her, he 
rung the left vell and dismissed her. further, there was an Israelite 
who had eight sons, and one daughter whom another Israelits had 
demanded in marriage. Now, wanting to marry her, the father of his 


p.278. 


279, 


372 atstetnt. 


bride said: “Give mo time; for I svand between two things. If we 
lead my daughter to you, we will be dishonoured by the oursed tyrant, 
and she then is no longer a lawful wife fur you. And if sha does not 
submit to him, be will make me perish.” For this state of things he 
blamed and reviled hia sons, whe became greatly excited and angry. 
But the youngest of tham jumped wn, dressed like a woman, hid a 
daggor in his garmente, and went to the gate of the king, behaving like 
the whores, Now, the tyrant rang the right hell, and he was uebored 
into hie presence ; there, being alone with him, he killed bim and cut off 
his head ; then he rang the left bell and wue let out, and atuck up the 
head (somewhere). Therefore the Israelites celebrate a feast on that and 
the following days (i.e. seven daye), corresponding tc the number of the 
brothera of this youth. Ged knowe hest! 


Tebeth: 


It has one Rosh-Hodesh in an Imperfect year, two in Perfect and 
Intermediate year. It hag 29 days. 

5. First appearance of darkness. Ptolemy, the king of the Greeks, 
had asked them for the Thora, compelled them to translate it into Greek, 
and deposited it in hie treasury. They maintain that this ie the version 
of the Seventy. In consequence darkneas spread over the world during 
three daya and nights, 

8. A fast-day, the last of the three Dark daye, eo catled for the reason 
just mentioned. 

9, A fast-day which they are ordered to keep, the origin of which they 
are ignorant of. 

10. A fast-day, the day on which Nehulsdnezar arrived before 
Jerusalem and laid siege to it. 


Shebat. 


Tt has only ono Rosh-Hodesh and 80 days. 

5. A fast-day on acconnt of the death of the sainte in the time of 
Josua b. Nin. Other people fix this fast-day on the Monday between 
the 10th and 15th of this month. 

23. Fasting of the Rebellion. Its origin is this: The trihe of Benjamin 
were a godless and lawless set of people, whe behaved like the people of 
Lot. Now, there came a man whe wanted to paae through their country 
with his wife and maid-servant, making bis pilgrimage to Jerusalem. 
Some countryman of hie received him in his house; but scarcely had 
darknese fallen when the people of the place surrounded the door of his 
house, demanding hie guest for their lust. Now, the master of the 
house offered to them his own daughter; but they said: “We de not 
want her.” Thon he gave up to them the servant-girl of his guest, and 
then they raped her the whole night. The girl expired tow. tds dawn. 
Then her master cut her inte pieces (12) according to the number of the 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


80 


40 


FESTIVALS AND FASTS OF THE JEWS. 278 


tribes of Israol ; and to each tribe he sent one of her limbs, in order to 
rouse their wrath. Now, they assembled and made war upon that tribe, 
but thoy could not conquer them. Thereupon they fasted on this day 
and humiliated thomselves before God. Finally He gave them victory 
over Benjamin; forty thonsand men of this tribe were killed and seventy 
thousand of the others. 
Sai. 

It is the leap-month in the leap-year. It does not exist in common 
years, and ia not counted among their months. It has two Rosh-Hudesb 
and 80 days. Thera is not fast or feast day in this month. 


Adhir Tl. 


Thia is the original Adhar, which is called so in general (without tha 
addition of J. or IT.) incommon years. There cannot be any ambiguity 
about what we just mentioned, speaking of another Adhéar precediag this 
one (because this only relates to leap-yeare). It has two Rosh-Hédesh 
and 29 days. 

7, A ast-day, because on this day Moses b, Amram died, and because 
with his death the manna and the quails ceased to appear. 

9, Afast.day which the Israclites established for themselves at the 
time when the war between the people of Shammiii and of Hillel took 
place, in which twenty-eight thonsand men were killed. 

Others fix this fast-day on tha Monday hetween the 10th and 15th of 
this month. 

13. The fasting of Albiri (Pirim), i.e. casting lots. Its origin is this: 
Once & man called Haman, aman of no importance, travelled to Tustar 
in order to undertake some office. Buton the way thither he met with an 
obstacle which prevented him from reaching the end of his journey, and 
this happened on the identical day ou which the offices (in Tustar) were 
bestowed. So he missed this opportunity and fell into utter distress. 
Now, he took his seat near the temples and demanded for every dead 
body (that was to be buried) 33 dirhams, This went on until the 
daughter of King Ahashwerosh died, When people came with her 
body, he demanded something from the bearers, and on being refused he 
did not allow them to pase, until they yielded and were willing to pay 
him what be asked for. But then he was not content with bis first 
demand; he asked for more and more, and they paid him more and 
more, till at last it reached an enormous sum. The king was informed 
of the matter, and he ordered them to grant him his desire. But after a 
week he ordered bim into hie presence, and asked him: “ Who invested 
you with such an office?” But Haman simply answered this: ‘And 
who forbade me to do so?” When the king repeated hia question, 
Haman said: “If I am now forbidden to do so, I shall cease and give it 
up, and I shall give you with the greatest pleasure so and so many ten 


18 


p-280. 


281. 


oon ALBIRENY. 


thousands of denars.” The king was astonished at the great sum of 
money which he mentioned, because he with all bis snpreme power had 
nething like it. Se he said: “A man whe gathered so much money from 
the ruls ever the dead, is werthy to be made wazir and counciller.’ So 
he entrusted him with all his affairs, and ordered his subjects to obey 
him. 

This Haman wae an enemy of the Jews. He asked the Haruspices and 
Augures which was the most unlucky time fer the Jews. Theysud: “In 
Adhbiar their master Mis’ died, and the mest unlucky time of this month 
ie the 14th and 15th.” Now Haman wrote to all parts of the empire, 
ordering people on that day to seize upon the Jews and to kill them. 
The Jews of the empire prostrated themselves before him, and appeared 
before him, cressing their hands upon their breasts, except one man, 
Mordekhai, the brether ef Estor, the king's wife. Haman hated her, and 
planned her destruction on that day; but the king’s wife understood 
him. Now she revved (in her palace) the king and his wazir, enter- 
taining them during three days. On tho fourth day she asked the king 
permission to lay befere him her wishes. And then she asked him to 
epare her life and that of her brother. The king said: “And who dares 
to attempt anything against you both?” She pointed toHaman. Now 
the king rose from his eeat in great wrath ; Haman dashed towards the 
queen, prostrating himself beforo her,and then kissing her head, but she 
pushed him back. Now the king got the impression that he wanted to 
seduce her; eo he turned towards him and said: “ Hast thou in thy im. 
pudence come eo far as to raise thy desire to her?” So the king ordered 
him to be killed, and Ester asked him to have him crucified on the same 
tree which he had prepared for her brother. So the king did,and wrote 
to all parts of the empire te kill the partisane of Haman. So they were 


10 


20 


Illed on the same day on which he had intended to kill tho Jews, i.e. on . 


the 14th. Therefore there is great joy ever the death of Haman on 
thie day. 

This feast ie also called the Feast of Mfegillé, and further Hdmén.Siir. 
For on this day they make figures which they beat and then bum, 
imitating the burning of Hiimiin. The eame they practise on the 15th. 


Nisan. 


It has only ons Rosh-Hogesh and 30 days. 

1. Fasting over the death of Nadab and Abihu, the sors of Asron, 
who died hecause they introduced foreign fire into the temple of God. 

10, Fasting over the death of Maryam, the daughter of Amram, and 


$0 


ever the sinking and disappearing of the water, a miracle which occurred 40 


on account ef her death, as the manna and the quails ceased to appear in 
consequence of the death of Moses b. Amram. Some people fix this day 
on Monday between the 5th and the 10th ef the month. 

15. Passover-feast, of which we have already treated at euch length 


1o 


20 


80 


40 


FESTIVALS AND FASTS OF THE JEWS. 275 


that there is no necessity for a repetition. This day is the fir.: of the 
Days of Unleavened Bread, Auring which they are not allowed to eat 
leavened bread. For such is the command of God in the third book of the 
Thora (Levit. xxiii. 6), where He says: “ Ou tho fifteenth of this month is 
the feast of the unleavened breed unto God. Then yon shall eat un- 
leavened bread during soven days, and you shall not work during them.” 
Thess daye end with eunset of the 2lst. On thie day God drowned 
Pharao; it is aleo called (»Selt. 


ip. 


It haa two Rosh-Hodesh an@Z 29 days. 

10. Fasting over the Ark. It is the day when the Ieraclites were 
deprived of the ark, and wheu thirty men of them were killed. The 
priest Eli then managed their affairs. Hie gall-bladder split, and he 
fell dead from his seat, when he heard the news. Others fix thia fasting 
on the Thursday between the 6th and 11th of the month. 

28. Fasting, hecause on thie day the prophet Samuel died. 


Siwan. 


It has only one Rosh-Hodesh and 30 days. 

6. The Feast of the Congregation, a great festival, and one of the 
Br of the Israelites. On this day their elders were present at 
Mount Sinai, where they heard the voice of God from the mountain 
speaking to Moses, ordering and forbidding, promising and threatening. 
They were ordered to celebrate a feast on this day as a thanksgiving to 
God forhaving preserved them fromal] mishap in their country, and 
their crops from thunder, cold, and rain. God says in the second hook of 
the Thora; “And you shall make a pilgrimage to me thrice in every 
year: first, at the time of the unleavened bread; secondly, when the Thora 
was sent down, this is the pilgrimage of the Feast of the Congregation : 
and the third time, at the end of the year, when you bring in your fruit 
from the fields. Your feasting and your devotion to God ehall be in 
sacred houees.” 

On thia day they offer the first-fruita. Then they read prayera over 
them ané invoke the blessing of God upon them. 

Between the first of the Days of the Tnleavened Bread and the Feast of 
the Congregation there are fifty days. These are the celebrated weeks 
during which they received their commandmente, when their law was 
completed, and they were tanght all Knowledge relating to God. 

Fasting on the Monday between the 9th and 14th. 

28. Fasting. They say that on this day Jeroheam b. Nebat ordered the 
ten tribea to worship two golden calves, and that they oboycd him. Iie 
children ruled over them about two hundred and fifty yeara, until Salmin 

18 * 


p.282. 


276 ALBint si. 


APa‘shar, the king of Mwvsul, conquered them and led thom into eap- 
tivity. Then they were united with the other tribes in ths time oi 
Hizkia, 

Yevobeam b. Nebit was one of the slaves of Solomon, the son of 
David ; he fled from hie master, and the Israelites made him their king. 
Then he kept them from making pilgrimages to Jerusalem by the worship 
of these two calves, knowing that if they wens to Jerusalem they would 
come to consider why they had made him their king; they would learn 
the reality of his case, and would depose and kil! him. 

25. Pasting over the death of Simeon, Samuel, and Hananyi. 

2-. Fasting, for this reason: one of the Greek kings wanted to force 
Rabbé Hananya b. Teradhydn to worship the idol; he, however, did not 
yield. Therefore the king ordered a Thora to ba wrapped round him, 
and him to be burned in it. Besides he put in prison Rabba ‘Akiha, and 
forbade people to follow him, and he strove to abolish the Sabbath. 


Tammuz. 


It has two Rosh-Hodesh and 29 days. It has no feast. 

17. Fasting, for on this day Moses broke the fables, and the fortifica- 
tione of Jerusalem began to he destroyed at the time when Nehukadnezar 
besieged them. Fartber, on this day they put up an idol for worship in 
Jervuealem, and placed it in the altar-place of the temple, from sheer in- 
solence and rebellion against God. On this day the Thora was burned, 
and the sacrifices ceased to Le practised. 


Abb. 


It has only one Rosh-Hodesh and 30 days. 

1. Pasting, becanee on this day Aaron h. Amram died, and the eloud 
was raised as a miracle in his honour. 

9. Fasting, because on this day they were told in the desert that they 
should not enter Jerusalem, and were sorry in consequence. On this day 
Jerusalem was conquered and entered by Nebukadnezar, who destroyed 
it by fire. On this day it was destroyed the second time, and its soil 
ploughed over. 

25. Fasting, because the fire was ~~tinguished in the temple. On this 
Gay Nehukadnezar left Jerusalem, and the conflagration of its storehousce 
and temples wes put an end to. 

28. Fasting, because the lamp of the temple waa extinguished in the 
days of the prophet Ahas, which was a sign of God's wrath ‘against 
them. 


ET 
Tt has two Rosh-Hodesh and 29 days, but no feast. 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


80 


40 


FESTIVALS AND FASTS OF TIE JEws, 277 


7. Fasting of the Spies, Qu this day tho spies returned to Moses, and 
brought him the report of the giants. Therefore tho Israclites were 
sorry, hut Josva b. Nin reufwed them. For this reasou the fast-day was 
established. Other Jews, however, place this fast-day on the Mouday er 
Thursday which falls within the last seven days before the Leginning 
of the next year. 


(On the M717 of the Jewish Calendar.)—The reason why they 
did not allow that 


Tha first of Tishr should ever he \7W¢ (I. IV. VI. days of the week), 


Pr Kippur be sas (I. TT. VI), 
Pa Purim or Hanan Sir z4Q (1. IV. VIL), 
% Passover y72 (IL IV. VI.), 
» __ *Agereth ta (IIL V. VIL), 


was this, that they wanted to preveut a day for any work falliug on a 
Sahhath ; for in that case they would not have heen able to celebrate it, 
since they are not allowed to work ou a Sabhath. For God says in the 
second hook (rod. xxv. 2): “He whe works ou a Sabbath shall be killed.” 
And in the fourth book (Num. xv, 32-36) it is related that they found a 
man of the Israelites in the desert working on a Sabbath and gathering 
wood. He was hrought before Moses and Aarou, and they put him in 
prison. But God said to Moses, ‘“ Kill him,” and so he was stoned to 
death. 

A second reason (why they did not allow the feasts to fall on the days 
mentioned) was this, that they wished to prevent a Sabbath aud another 
day on which al) work ceases following each other. 

As for Sunday, §%, they did not allow it to heNew-Year's Day, because 
God says in the third book (Levit. xxiii. 24-25): “On the first day of the 
seventh month you shall have rest, and s memorial of blowing of trumpets. 
Then you shall not work on that day, but yon shall offer sacrifices.” If, 
now, this day follows a2 Sabbath, the Jew gets two consveutive days of 
rest; the means of his majntenance are pettiug scanty, and he is brought 
to a condition in which it is difficult for him to make good the deficiency. 
In this case, ‘Azébkdé falls on a Sabhath, and almsgiving, and the other 
works prescribed for this day, could not be earried out. For the same 
reason Kippitr could not fall ona Tucsday, nor the preceding Passover 
on & Friday, nor the preceding ‘Asereth on a Sabbath, because if this 
were the case the Ist of Tishri would fall on a Suuday. 

The reason why they do not allow New-Year’s Day to be a Wednesday 
(*y), is that God says in the third book (Levit. xxiti, 27-32): “On the 
tenth day of theseventh month shall be remission. On this day you shall 
not do the lesst work from the evening of the ninth of the month till the 
(next) evening.’ Therefore all work is suspended on Kippir (the 10th, 


p.283. 


:] 


278 atBirtyt, 


in this case Friday), and the following Sabbath is likewise a day of 
reat. So Kippir cannot fal) ou a Friday, nor the preceding Passover on 
a Monday, nor the preceding ‘Asereth on a Tuesday. 

The reason why they do Dot allow New- Year's Day to fall on a Friday 
(4) is this, that Fridgy is followed by Sabbsth, and becanse in that case 
Kippdr would fell on a Sunday, following upon a Sabbath, and the Feast 
of Benediction would fall on a Fridsy preceding a Sabbath, an order of 
days which is forbidden by the law. For the same reason Kippir cannot 
fall on a Sunday, nor the preceding Passover on # Wednesday, nor the 
preceding ‘Agereth on a Thursday, becauss all this would necessitate 
Now-Year’s Day being a Friday, and thence would result those con- 
sequences which we have mentioned. 

Therefore people endeavoured to constrnct the calendar in snch a way 
as to prevent two daye of rest following each other, and ‘Arédhd falling 
ou a Sabbath, because on thia day they must give alma and must wake 
® pilgrimage aronnd the pulpit, which they call *Ardn, }y4N, or Kidwidh. 
Porther, they had to prevent Piirim falling on a Sabbath, which would 
keep them from burning Haman and uttering their joy thereat. And 
lastly, they had to prevent ‘Asereth falling on a Sabbath, because in that 
ease they could not bring their seeds and their first-fruits, and other 
things that are preacribed for this day. 

*Abi-‘TeA Alwarrik speake in his Kitib-Almofdldt of a Jewish sect 
called the Maghribis, who maintain that the feasts are not legal unless 
the moon rises in Palcetine as a full moon in the wight of Wednesday, 
which fcHlows after the day of Tuesday, st the time cf sunset, Such 
is their New-Year’s Day. From this point the days and months 
ate counted, and hera begina the rotation of the annual festivals. For 
God created the two great lights ona Wednesday. Likewise they do not 
allow Passover to fall on any other day except on Wednesday. Andthe 
obligations and rites prescribed for Passover they do not hold to be 
necessary, except for those who dwell in the country of the Israclites. 
All this etands in opposition to the custom of the majority of the Jews, 
and to the prescriptions of the Thora. 

The Ananites fix tha heginning of the months by the observation of the 
appearance of new moon, and settle intercalation by that eort of prognos- 
tication which we have mentioned. They do not mind on what days of 
the week the feasts fall, except as regards Sabhath. For in this case 
they postpone the feasts to the following Sunday. This postponement 
they call NUT: On « Sabbath they do not touch any work whatsoever ; 
even tha circumcision of the children they postpone till the following 
day, in opposition to the practice of the Rabbanites. 

With the auspensiou of work on a Sabbath certain curious affairs are 
connected. In the first instance God says in the Coran (Sire vii. 163): 
“ Then their fishes appearing on the surface of tha water come to them 
on the day when they celebrate Sabbath; but on a day on which they 


10 


20 


80 


40 


10 


20 


80 


40 


FESTIVALS AND FASTS OF THE JEWs. 279 


do not celebrate Sabbath the fishes do not come to them.” Further, 
Aljaihani relates in his Liber Reguorua el Viarum, that eastward of 
Tiberias lics the city of Bslinas (Apollonias?), where the Jordan has its 
souree. There the rivor drives mills, that stand still on a Sabbath and 
do not work, hecause the water disappears beneath the earth until tha 
end of Sabbath. For this oceurrence f am unable to find a physical ex- 
planation, because its repetition and revolution is based upen the days of 
the weok. Annual oecurrences are accounted for by the suu and his rays, 
monthly occurrences by ths moon and her light, as e.g. the altar in Greece 
which of itself burned the sacrifices on ons certain day of the year, under 
tha influence of thea reflected solar rays which were concentrated on a 
certain spot of the alta: . etc. 

*Abi-'Isd Alwarrik relates in his Kitéb-Almagdldt that a Jewish sect, 
the Alfaniyya (“illenarii), reject the whole of the Jewish feasts, aud 
maintain that they cannot be learned except through a prophet, and that 
they keap no other feast-day but Sabbath. 

The following table, the Tabula Argumentationis, illustrates what we 
have stated before regarding the feasts, aud shows that New-Year’s Day 
cannot fall on the days mentioned, ie. the days of the sun, of Mercury 
and Venus. The red ink indicates 2 Dies illictta, the black ink a Dies 
lietta. Tf, now, the transversal line of numbers which correspand to the 
feasts mentioned at the tops of the single columus is black from begin- 
ning to end, al] these numbers signify Dies licite ; ii, however, some of 
those numbera, or all of them, are writteu inredink, these some or all of 
them are Dies illicile. Opposite the numbers we have placed a special 
column for the terms “ Necessary,” “ Possible,” and “ Impossible.’ The 
terms necessary and impossible do not ueed an explanation. Tho term 
possible means that if New-Year’s Day falls on a Dieslicita, but some of 
the numbers indicating the single feast-dsys in the transversal line are 
written in red ink, those days ar Dies illiccte im commou years, whilst 
they are Dies licite in a leap-year of the same quality, and vice verad. 
This table shows clearly why some of the (three) kinds of Jewish years 
can fallow each other, whilst others cannot, as we have meutioned before. 
For if Rosh-hashehini of a year following after a year of a certain 
quality (5 or tj) is such as could not be the heginning of @ year of 
another quality, these two kinds may follow each other; in any other 
cage they cannot follow each other. From this rule, however, we must 
except the I:mperfect years (ry), because the fact that two years 
rt cannot follow each other rests on another ground; hercof we have 
already spoken in the preceding part. 


p.285. 


atpirin?, 


280 


10 
20 


‘ 043% 
4 ase Semone eo hn Hw me  & Hoa o sy mH ao b 
aq? ZO Surmasod : ' os _ : : 
| -weayg eo Wrna o mw 3 a) ar) a 
open ob Pe eT eee ee 
5 , j Oo bb nm oe 7 Wm et (--) 
= BS. ae si) ben " - Seo et & Is H p > E : 
: “2gTPy ma wo Pp © © ew op 2 © i; mb Ww © et 
0 | 59st oyna icon noe See. bee 
gar UML aaowrwn ©O Pn aowrn © Hf wm WM HH © 
B °° | zo 9ta ‘Taaity, | Se ee B ee 
ol BI , 7 & o a n Wa 
Evlearaun' Hf a eee TP TS TP 
& | “pueden syevay , ; ; : 
a+ sake ou gor | Hoa © af 1” 4 mn Ho 0 & i i i bp 5 n 
Doda yAQEry, $0 FT an 
b rigs 
2 2 x 2 2 & 4 8 
3 \2 pee ee Pee 2 2.22 27 2b SF 
03 “sOTsLATCL a § g@ ¢@ Ss @ @ &@ 2 & 8 Fe g 2 8 2 g 8 a 2 @ 
3 vs") & 8 B&B & BE B 8 Be 8a Se BB 8 8 B28 & 8 
| ASE Fee aS A AeA Re Ee A ae A 
i) : 2 ; 
Bs 7 
; ane € z s 8 2 2 4 a s rs a . s % a a s a ra 2 
od | -qpeub Lrepmossg S 4 
Z 
4 4 Pa 
A 
mt | syenb Lreug ve Zana ‘sxeos WoUaIOL) 


Arabic numerals, whilst the Dies Hlicitm, written in the original in red ink, are bera 


® Tho Disa Licite, in the Arabic original written in black ink, are here written in 
written in Latin numersia. 


281 


FESTIVALS AND FASTS OF THE JEWS. 


Tasuta AraumeEntatiosis FH. 


p.287, 


Ss} TEL 30 181 | iz st eee ae — Se Paaas Be ae | 
ata f Sumoyoy ~ KN mw me > ji an & ap » 
| ou jo Sutauatog | baad = > ae 
; ~~ seag |e ‘eH - na Ft © ma Oo + i on on ; a “ -) 
* | 30 m9 Deure| ar A 2 S| B ee > E ae =) 
. satel : 4 oo 1 i e ion j - 
a JOUIQT ee E *° sy om = ¢ me =| e S = =) ° eA as 
é Ce ea eee = 
: “ARDY ac) , 3 © ~ 2 & © © ~ - 3 © ~ eo 
“(ye wer wap! AB B a E ; Fi S 
. WUStL, yey ee a a ee a a oO 8 wm © 
: awttten| fo coe ety tere ke 
: “wy, tw em YG ae a ow mn a Fo Hn a 
9) 30 BOL Agddry * =e > is sy = 5 sy 
“puedo p wyatay . Pare A oe Hi 2 ei rs 
i [toujoour qos | ei om oo Po ix nN win oo a wo = mw Ha 6 a Noy sd hb 
toda yaquy yo wil a 
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 ae 
Pee 2e Pee pe. 2eebp 2p & 
‘4 ‘ads ‘ss 2s #$ #3 323 8 Fe Sig da § 
“StOLbTAT a a a & a a a a2 A wa 2 nan o ta a a 
[BE ERESBE RRS BERR Re EEE ES 
L=) o oO oO o o 
ae a 
eS ee es 5 5 aS aos 
“Bord e "4 3 . 
>] sreub Arepaoaag 3. = = bl = z a § = z = 3 & = a = z s R s x 
E re S 
A} Ay 
& EE ® go i Se 
‘ “Bary 
Sal fb Szmomg | axead-degy 
! 
re ts She bees 
i] e 
™~ 


282 aLBirint, 


CHAPTER XV. 


88. ON THE FESTIVALS AND MEMORABLE DAVS OF THE SYRIAN CALENDAR, 
CELEBRATED BY THE MELAITE CHRISTIANS. 


Taz Christians are divided into various sects. The firet of them are 
the Melkites (Royadists), t.c. the Greeks, so called because the Greek ling 
is of their persuasion. In Greece there is no other Christian sect beside 
them. 

The second sect are the Nestoriana, eo called after Nestorius, who 
brought forward their doctrine between A. Alex. 720 and 780. 

The third sect are the Jacobites. 10 

These are their principal sects. They differ among each other on the 
dogmas of their faith, as eg. on the persons (ra xpéowza in Christ), on 
the divine nature, the human nature, and their anicn (wots). There is 
another sect of them, the Ariant, whose theory regarding Christ comes 
more near that of the Muslims, whilst it is most different from that of 
the geverality of Christians. Besides there are many other sects, but 
this is not the place to enumerate them. This subject has heen ex- 
haustively treated and followed up into ita most recondite details in the 
hooks treating of philosephical and religious categories and doctrines, 
and which at the same time refute those secta. 20 

The most numerous of them are the Melkites and Nestorians, because 
Greece and the adjacent countriea are all inhabited by Melkites, whilst 
the majority of the inhabitants of Syria, ‘Irik and Khurisin are 
Nestorians. The Jacobites mostly live in Egypt and around it. 

Certain days of the Syrian months are celebrated among them; on 
some of them they agree, on others they differ. The reason of their 
agreeing is this, that those days were spread through the Christian 
world hefore the schism in their doctrines waa brought about. The 
reason of the difference is this, that some days belong to one sect and to 
one provincs in particular. 30 


10 


20 


30 


40 


‘HE FESTIVALS, ETC. OF THE SYRIAN OALENPaR. 283 


Besides they have other days depending upon their Great Fast, and 
weeks dspending upon tho most famous days. On this category of days, 
as on the former, they partly agree, partly disagree. 

T shall now enumerate tho calendar days of the Melkites in Khwarizm 
according to the Syrian calendar. ‘You find very rarely that the 
Christians, Jews, and Zoroastrians in different countries agree among 
each other in the use of festivals and memoria] days. Only regarding 
ths greatest and most famous feasts they agrec, whilst generally on all 
others they diffor. 

Secondly, J shall apeak of their fasting, and all the days connected 
with it, on which the various sects agree. 

Lastly, I shall treat of the feasta and memorable days of the Nestorians, 


if God permits! 
Tishrin I. 


I. Commemoration (pvjuy) of the bishop and martyr Ananias, the 
pupil of Si. Paul. It is a Christian custom on these commemoration 
days to celebrate the memory of the saint to whom the day is dedicated ; 
they pray to God for him, and praise him, and humble themselves before 
God in his name. To every child which is born on this day or later, 
until the next commemoration day, they give the name of the saint of the 
day. Frequently, too, they give cach other the names of two eommemo- 
tations, so as to say x, also called N from the commemoration of the 
saint N. When this commemoration comes, people assemble in his 
hovse, and he receives them as his guesta, and gives them o repast. 

2. Arethas (Harith) of Najrin, martyr with the other martyrs. 

3. Mary the nup, who wore man’s dress; she lived like a monk, and 
concealed her sex before the monks. Being accused of fornication with 
a woman, she bore this wrong patiently, and her sex did not beeome 
known before her death. When they, then, wanted to wash her body, 
and saw the genitals, they found out the reality of the case, and—bher 
innocence. 

4, Dionysius, the hishop and astronomer, the pupil of St. Paul. 

These titles (like bishop, etc.) indicate clerical degrees, of which they 
in their religion have nine :— 

1, Cantor, pdArys. 

2, Reader, (a0;0 

8. Hypodiaconus. 

4, Diaconus, in Arabic Shamma. 

5. Presbyter, in Arabic Kase. 

6. Bishop, in Arabic ’Uskef. He stands under the metrapolita. 

7. Metropolita, who stands under the catholicus. The residence of the 
metropolita of the Melkites in Khurisiin is Marw, 

8. Cathelicua, in Arahie Jéthel:*. Tho residence of the catholicua of 


p.289. 


284 ALBiR Oni. 


the Melkites in Muhammadan countries is Baghdid. He stands under 
the Patriarch of Antiochin. The Nestorian catholicus is appointed by 
the Ehalif on tho presentation of tho Nestorian community. 

9. Patriarch, in Arabic Bafrik. This dignity exists unly among the 
Melkites, not among the Nestorians. There are always four patriarchs 
in Christendom ; as soon as one dics, at oncea successor is created, being 
chosen hy the remaining patriarchs, the catholici, and ly the other 
dignitaries of the Church. One patriarch resides in Constantinople, 
another in Rome, the third in Alexandria, and tho fourth in Antiochia. 
These towns are called ava. 

There is no degree beyond that of the patriarch, and none below that 
of the cantor, Frequently they count only from the diaconus upwards, 
and do not reckon the ringers and altar-servants among the officials of 
the Church. To each degree attach certain rules, usages, and conditions, 
on which this is not the proper place to enlarge. 

*Abi-Alhusain ’Abmad b. Alhusain Al’ahwizt, the secretary, reports in 
his Book of the Sciences of the Grecks, what he himself has learned in Con- 
stantinopls of the degrees of the service both of Church and State. His 
report is this;— 


J. Patriarch, highest Church dignitary, supreme authority throughout 
the empire, 
IL Xpvoxs (?) the prefect of the greatest monastery. 
. 'Extoxomos, %.e, bishop. 

IV. Myrporodirys, i.e, the governor [or ruler). 

V. ‘Hyotpevos, prefect of a monastery, highly revered by them. 

VI. Katéynpos. His degree comes near to that of the Hegoumenos. 
VIL. Tdras, in Arabic Kase. 

VIII. Ardkovos, in Arabic Shammds. 


However, the more trustworthy account of the matter ia the one given 
above. Because ’Abi-Alhusain has mixed up with the men of the official 
degrecs other people, who, although important personages, are not exactly 
dignitaries of such and such degree; or perhaps they belong to one of 
those degrees, but then his description does not fit. 


The laic degrees cf the State service arc the following :— 


I. BaorAeds, i.e. Caesar, king of the Greeks. 
IL. AoyoGérys, his vazir and dragoman. 
IL. WWopaxopmdpevos, the first of the chamberlnins. 
IV. Aoudorixos, commander of the army. 
Vi. Axciors (P), 2 man iu the king’s special confidence in the army, 
similar to the domesticus, both being of the une rank, 
VI. Apxvrenyy (?), the head of the marpixo:, 
VII. Mazpiccos, in Arabic dagrift. These batriks ure iv the army some- 
thing like chief-coramander, not fo Le coufounded with the 


10 


20 


30 


40 


20 


30 


40 


THE FESTIVASS, ETL, OF THE SYRIAN CALENDAR, 285 


hatriks whom we have mentioned as clerical dignitaries. 
Those who feat the ambiguity of the words cal] the clerical 
dignitary befrak. 
VIL. ‘Poydrwp, who has to review the army and to pay the stipends of 
the soldiers. 
IX. Sepdryyos. his rank ig half that of a Darpixeoz. 
X. Upwrocza$amos, a nan in the king’s confidence in the army of 
the Tarp*xtas, whom the Tletpécos consults in every affair. 
XL. MayAaGirys, the officer of the royal whip (Preefectus lictoruin). 
XII. “Egepxos, an officer over 1,090 men. 
XII. ‘Exarovrdpios, a commander of 100 men. 
XIV. Werryxovreipws, a cvrmmander of 50. 
XV. Teocapaxovrdgios, 2 commander of 40. 
XVI. Tpuvrdpios, a commander of 30. 
XVIL *Etxvoerdpios, 2 commander of 20. 
XVIM. Aéxapxos, a commander of 10. 


Now we return to our subject. 


3. Commemoration of the Seven Sleepers of Ephesus, who are men- 
tioned mm the Corar. The Khalif Almu‘tasim had sent along with his 
ambassador another person who saw the place of the Seven Stecpers with 
his own cyes, and tonched them with his own hands. ‘This report is 
known to evershody. We must, however, observe that he who touched 
them, i.e. Muhammad b. Misa b. Shikir himself, makes the readcr rather 
doubt whether they are really the corpses of those seven youths or other 
people,—in fact, some sort of deception. 

‘Ali b. Yahyii, the astronomer, relates that on returning frum his 
expedition, he entered that identical place, asmall mountain, the diameter 
of which at the bottom is a little less than one thousand yards. At the 
outside you see a subterraucan channel which govs into the interior of 
the mountain, and passes throuzh a. decp cave in the carth for a distance 
of three hundred paces. Then the chaunel runs out into a sort of balf. 
oprn hall in the mountain, the roof being supported by perfurated 
columns. And in this hall there isa number of scpamte compartments. 
There, he says, he saw thirteen people, wnong them a beardicss youth, 
dressed iu woollen voats and uther woullen garments, in boots and shoes, 
He tuuched sue hairs on the forehead of one of them, and tried to 
flatten them, but they did not yield. That their number is more than 
acven, which is ‘he Mubammadan, and moro than cight, which is the 
Christian tradition, is pcrhups to be explained in this way, thut some 
monks have been added who died there in the same spot. For the corpses 
of monks last partienlarly long, because they torture themselves to guch 
a degres that finally all their moist substances perish, and between hones 
and skin only very little flesh remains. And therefure their life is ex- 
tinguished like a lamp when it has no muro oil Frequently they remain 


291. 


286 aLpiront. 


for generations in the samo posture, leaning on their eticke. Such a 
thing you may witness in regione where monks live. 

According to ths Christians these youths slept in their cave thres hun- 
dred and ssventy-two years; according to us (Muslims) three hundred 
eolar years, ac God says in the Coran in the chapter which specially treate 
of their hietory (4c. Siraxviii.). As for the addition of nine years (Sitra 
xviii, 24: ‘And they remained in their cave threo hundred years and 
nine yeare more“), we explain them aa those nine years which you must 
add if you change the three hundred solar yeare into lunar years. To 
epeak accurately, thie addition would be 


9 years, 75 days, 16% hours. 


However, according to the way in which people reckoned at that time, 
they counted the 300 years as 15 Minor Cycles (of 19 yeare) plus 15 years 
of the 16th cycle. The number of months that were to bo intercalated 
for such a space of time was 110 according to anyane of the Ordines 
Intercalationis which they may have applied to the rest of the (15) years. 
And 110 months amount to 9 years and 2 months. Such fractione, 
however, (a6 2 months or 2 year) are neglected in a historical account. 

7. Commemoration of Sergiue and Bacchus. 

10. Commemoration of the prophet Zacharias. On thie dey tho angels 
announced to him the birth of his son John, as it is mentioned in the 
Coran, and in greater detail in the Gospel. 

11. Cyprianus, the bishop, the martyr. 

14. Gregory of Nyssa, the bishop. 

17, Coemas and Damjanus, the physicians, the martyrs. 

18. Lucas, author of tho third Gospel. 

23. Anastasia, the martyr. 

26. Commemoration of the sepulture of the head of John the eon of 
Zachanas. . 


Tishrin LL. 

1. Cornutus, martyr. 

11. Menas (Myvis), martyr. 

15. Samonas, Guriae, and Abibos, the martyrs. 

16. Beginning of the fasting for the nativity of Jesus, the son of 
Mary, Messiah. People fast forty consecutive daye before Christmas 
{16 Nov.-25 Dec.). 

17. Gregorius Thaumaturgos. 

18. Bomanus, the martyr. 

20. Isaac, and his pupil Abraham, the martyrs. 

25. Petrue, bichop in Alexandria. 

27. Jacob, who was cut to pieces. 

30. Andreas, martyx, and Andreas the apostls. 


10 


20 


30 


10 


80 


THE FESTIVALS, ETC. OF THE SYRIAN CALENDAR. 287 


Kinin I. 

1. Jacob, the first bishop of Elia. 

3. Johannes, the Father, who collected iu a book the rites and Jawa of 
Christianity. To address 1 man by tho title of “ Futher,” is with them 
the highest mark of veneration, because thereupon (upon ths vencration 
towards their spicitua] fathers?) their dcgmas are bascd. There is no 
origina] legislation in Chyistianity ; their laws are derived and developed 
by their most venerated men from the canonica] sayings of Messiah and 
ths apostles. So they represent ths matter themselves. 

4, Barhara and Juliana, the martyrs. 

5. Sabi, abbot of the mouastery in Jerusalem. 

6. Nicolaus, patriarch of Antiochia. 

13. The five martyrs, 

1%. Modestus, patriarch of Zlia.. 

18. Sisin, the catholicns of Khurisin. 

20. Ignatius, third patriarch of Antiochia. 

22. Joseph of Arimathia 6 SovNevnjs, who buried the body of the 
Messiah in a grave which he had prep«red for himeclf, as is related 
towards the end of all four Gospels. Alma'min b. Ahmad Alsalami 
Albarawi maintains that he has seen it in the Church of the Resurrection 
in Jerusalem, ina vault as a grave cut into the rock in a gibbous form, 
and inlaid with gold. To this grave attaches a curious story, which we 
shall mention when speaking of the Christian Lent. People say that the 
king does not allow the Greeks to visit the grave. 

23. Gelasius, martyr. 

25. In the night after the 25th of this month, ie. in the night of the 
25th according to ths Greek system, is the feast of the Nativity (VS), 
the birth of the Messiah, which took place on a Thursday night. Most 
people helieve that this Thursday was tho 25th, but that is a mistake; it 
waa the 26th. If anybody wants to make the calculation for this year 
by means of the methods mentioned inthe preceding part, he may do 80. 
For the 1st of Kanin I. in that year was a Sunday. 

26. David, the prophet, and Jacob, the bishop of lia. 

27. Stephanus, head of the deacons. 

28. Herodes killed the chilren and infants of Bethlehem, searching for 
the Messiah, and hoping to Kill Himamong the others, as is related in the 
beginning of the Gospel. 

29. Antonius, martyr. Cliistians believa him to be identical with 
*Abi-Rif, the cousin of Harin Alrashid. He left Islim, and became a 
convert to the Christian Church, wherefore Harim crucified him. They 
tell along and miraculous tale about him, the like of which we never 
heard nor read in any history or chronicle, Christians, however, ou the 
whole are viry much inclined to accept and to give credit to such things, 
more particularly if they relate to their crceda, not at all endeavouring by 


p.292, 


293. 


288 ALBIRON?. 


the means at their disposal to criticise hietorical traditions, and to find 
out the truth of bygone times. 


Kanin II. 


1. Basilius, also feast of the Calend@ (Calendas). Calendas means 
“may it be good” (xaddy plua?). On this day the Christian children 
assemble and go round through the houses, crying with the highest voice 
and some sort of melody “ Calendas.” Therefore they receive in every 
houge something to cat,and a cup of wine to drink. As the reason 
of this custom some people assert. that thie is the Greek Now-Year’s 
Day, i.e. one week after Mary had given birth to Christ. Others relate 
as ita reason the following story: Arius on having come forward with his 
theory, and having found adherents, took possession of one of the Chria- 
tian churches, but the people of that church protested against it. Finally 
they arranged with each other, and came to this agreement; That they 
would shut tha door of the church for three days; than they wonld pro- 
ceed together to the church, and read before it alternately. That party, 
then, to whom the door would open of iteelf, should be its legal owner. 
So they did. The church door did not open of itself to Ariue, but it 
opened to the other party. So they say. Therefore their children do 
such things in imitation of the lucky message which they received at that 
time. 

2. Silvester, the metropoliten, through whom the people of Constan- 
tinople hecame chrietianized. 

5. Fasting for the feast of Epiphany. 

6. Epiphany (Jsa) iteelf, the day of baptiem, when John, the son 
of Zacharias, haptized Messiah, and made him dive under the baptismal 
water of tho river Jordan, when the Messish was thirty years of age. 
Ths Holy Ghost came over him in the form of a dove that descended 
from heaven, according to the relation of the Gospel. 

The eame, now, Christians practise with their children when they are 
thres or four years of age. For their biehops and presbyters fill a veasel 
with water and read over it, and then they make the child dive into it. 
Thia being done, the child is christened. This is what our Prophet 
says; ‘“ Every child is born in the state of origina] purity, but then its 
parente make it a Jew, or Christian, or Magian.” 

*Abh-Alhusain Al’ahwazi describer in his hook of the Sciences of the 
Greeks the process of christening. First they read prayere for the child 
in the church during seven days, early and late ; on the seventh day it is 
undressed, and ita whole body anointed with oil. Then they pour warm 
water invv a marble vessel which stands in the middle of the church. On 
the snrface of the water the priest makes five dote with oil in the figure 
of a crosa, four dote and ons in the middle. Then the child ie raised, ite 
feet are placed so as completely to cover the dot in the middle, and it is 
put into the water. Then the priest takes a handful of water from one 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


40 


THE FESTIVALS, ETC. OF THE sYRJAN CALENDAR, 289 


side, and pours it over the head of the child. This he does four times, 
taking the water successively from all four sides corresponding to the 
four sides of the cross. Then the priest steps backward, and that person 
comes who wanta to take the child out of the water, the same who has 
placed it there. Then tho priest washes it, while the whole congregation 
of the chureb is praying. Then it is definitively taken out of thu water, 
is adorned with a shirt, and carried away to prevent its feet from touch- 
ing the ground, whilst tha whde church cries seven times: xupte cAeqoov, 
ie. “O Lord, have mercy tpox us!” Then the child is completely dressed, 
always being borne in the arma; then it ia put down. Thereafter either 
it remains in the church, or it goes there again and again during seven 
days. Ou the seventh day the priest washes it again, but this time 
without vil, and not in the baptismal vessel. 

lL. Theodosius, the monk, who tortured bimeelf, and loaded himself 
with chains. 

18. End of the feast of Epphany. On this day the noble saints on 
Mount Sina: were killed. 

15. Petrus, Patriarch of Damascus. 

1?. Antonius, the first of the monks, and their head. 

20. Euthymius, the monk, the teachar. 

21. Maximus, the anchorite. 

22. Cosmas, author of Christian vanous and laws. 

25. Polyearpue, the bishyp, the martyr, who was hurned with fire. 

25. Johannes, called Chrysostomus. “Jwdys is the Gresk form for 
John. 

$1. Johannes and Cyrus, the martyrs. 


1. Ephraem, the teacher. 

2, Waz Feast, in recollection of Mary’s bringing Jesus to the temple of 
Jerusalem, when he was forty days of age. This ia a Jacobite feast, held 
in great veneration among them. People say that on thie day the Jews 
introduce their children into the temples, and make them read the Thora. 
If this is the case, it isin Shebat (the Jewish form of the name) not in 
Shuhat (the Syrian form), since the Jews do not use the Syrian names. 

Betweer the 2nd Shubit and the 8th Adhér the heginuing of their 
Lent varies, of which we shall speak hereafter. When fasting they never 
celebrate the commcmoration-dava we mention, except those that fall on 
a Sabbath ; those and only those aie celebrated. 

8. Belesys, martyr, killed hy the Magians. 

5. Sis Catholiens, who first brought Christianity down to Khurisin. 

14. Commemoration in recollection of the finding of the head of the 
Baptist, i.e. John, the son of Zacharias. 


19 


p.294. 


295. 


290 ALBIReNt. 


Adhir. 


9. The forty martyra who wers tortured to death hy fire, cold, and 
frost, 

11, Sophroniug, Patriarch of Jerusalem. 

25. Annuntiatio Sanctissime Deipare. Gabriel came to Mary an- 
nouncing to her the Messiah. From this day until tha day of His hirta 
is a littla more than 9 months and 5 days, which is the natural space of 
tims for a child’s sojourn in the mother’s womb. Jesus, though he had 
no human father, and though supported hy the Holy Ghost, was in His 
earthly life eubject to the laws of nature. And so it is only proper that 
also His sojourn in the womh of His mother should have heen in agreement 
with nature. 

Tho mean placo af the moon at noon of this day, Monday the 25th 
Adhér A. Alex. 308, for Jernsalem, was about 50 minutes in the first 
degree of Taurus. Those, now, who follow in the matter of the Numd- 
ahdr (i.e. a certain method of investigation for the purpose of fiuding 
the ascendens or horoscope under which a child ie born) the theory of 
Hermes the Egyptian, must assume the last part of Aries aud the 
heginning of Taurus as the ascendens of the Messiah. However, Aries 
and Taurus were ascending at the time Christ was born, during the day- 
time, bacause the meau place of the sun for Jerusalem for noon of 
Thursday following after the night in which Christ was born, is ahout 
2 degrees and 20 minutes of Capricorn. The ahove-mentioned time of 
Christ's sojourning in His mother’s womb (9 months 5 days) is, according 
to their theory, a condita sine gui non for every child that is born in 
the night of Christmas, when the moon ig standing under the earth at a 
distance of ,', circumfereuce from the degree of the horoscope. Now, 
knowing so much ahout the moon's place on the day of the Annuncia- 
tion, we find that the horoscope (of the hour of Christ’s birth) was near 
24 degrees of Pisces. And if we compute the mean place of the moon 
for the 25th of Kanan L. for the time when she stands under the earth 
at the distance of 4, circumference, we find the horoscope to have been 
nearly 20 degrees in Aries. 

Both calculations, however, (that of the astrologers and Albirini’s 
own) are worthless, because those who relate the birth of Christ relate 
that it occurred at night, whilst our calculations would lead to the 
agsuimption that it occurred in ths day. This ie one of ths considera- 
tions which clearly show the worthlessness of the Numidkdre. We shall 
dcdicate a special book to the genera and species of the Numiidhdra, where 
we shall exhaust the eubject and not conceal the truth, if God permits 
me to hve so long as that, and if He by His mercy delivers ms from the 
remainder of pain and illness. 


10 


20 


30 


40 


10 


20 


30 


THE FESTIVALS, ETC. OF THE SYRIAN CALEXDAR, 291 


Nisin. 

1. Mary ths Egyptian, who fisted 40 consecutiv days without any in- 
terruption. Asa rule, this commenoration-day is celebrated on the first 
Friday after breaking fast ; therefore, Friday being a conditio sine quad 
non, it falls on the Ist of Nisin only four times in a Solar Cycle, viz. in 
the 4th, 10th, 15th, and 2lst years, if you count the eycles from the 
baginning of the 4fra Alerandri, the current year included. 

15. The 150 martyra. 

21. The six synods. Synod means a meting of their wise men, of 
their priests, bishops, and other church dignit:ries, for the purpose of 
anathemitizing some innovation, a] for something like eursing each 
other, or for the consideratiov of sone important religious subject. Such 
synods ute not convoked cxeapt at long intervals, and if one takes place, 
people keep its date in memory and frequently celebrate the day, hoping 
to obtain a blessing thereby, and wanting to show their devotion. 

1, The first of the six synods was that of tho 328 hishopsat Nicaa, 
a.n. 825, under the king Constantine, convoked on account of Arius, who 
opposed them iu the question of the Persons, aud for the purpose of per- 
petuating the dogma which they all agreed upon regarding the two 
Persons of the Father and the Son, and their agrecmeut regarding this 
subject that Fasf-breaking shonld always fall on Sunday after the re- 
surrection of the Messiah; for there had coine forward some peopls 
proposing to break the fast on the 14th of the Jewish Passover month 
(Teocapecnadexarirac, or Quartodeci mani). 

2. Synod of the 150 lishops in Constantinople, a.v. 381, under ths 
king Theodosius, son of Arcadius the Elder, convoked on account of a 
man called “cnemy af the Spirit’ (xvevparopayos), because he opposed 
the Catholic Church in the description of the Holy Ghust, and for ths 
purpose of perpetuating their dogma regarding this Third Person. 

8. Spnod of the 200 at Ephesus, a.n. 431, under the king Theodosius 
Junior, convoked on account of Nestorius,the Patriarch of Constantinople, 
the founder of Nestorian Christianity, hecanse he opposed the Catholic 
Church regarding the Person of the Son. 

4, Synod of the 630 at Chalcedon, a.n. 451, under the king Marcianus, 
ou account of Eutyches, becanse he taught that the body of the Lord 
Jesus consisted, before the fects, of two natures, afterwards only of one 
nature. 

5. Synod under Justinian I, a.p. 553, convoked for ths purpose of 
condemning the bishops of Mopsuestia, of Edessa, and others, who 
opposed the Church in its fundamental dogmas. 

6. Synod of 187 bishops in Cuustuntinople, 4.p. 680, under Constan- 
tins (Pogonatus) the Belisver, convoked on account of Cyrus and Simon 


Magus. 
19 & 


p.296. 


297, 


292 aLrinést. 


23. Mar Georgios, the martyr, tortured repeatedly and by various 
tortures, till he died. 

24, Marcus, author of the second Gospel. 

25. Elias, Catholicus of Khurfsan. 

2?. Christophorus. 

30. Simeon b, Ssbba‘é Catholicus, killed in Khizistéin, together with 
other Christians, 


Ayyir. 


1. Jeremia, the prophet. 

2 Athanasius, the patriarch. 

8. Lhe Feast of Roses according to the ancient rite, aa it is celebrated 
in Khwarizm. On this day they bring Jiri-roses to the churches, the 
reason of which is this, that Mary presented on this day the first roses 
to Elizabeth, the mother of John. 

6. Hiob, the prophet. 

7. Feast of the Apparition of the Cross in Heaven. Christian scholars 
relate:—In the time of Constantine the Victorious there sppeared in 
heaven the likeness of a cross of fire or light. Now people said to the 
king Constantine, “Make this sign your emblem, and thereby you will 
conquer the kings who surround you.” He followed their advice, ho 
conquered, and therefore hecams a Christian. His mother Helena hs 
sent to Jerusalem to search for the wood of the Cross. She found it, 
but together with the two crosses on which, as they maintain, the two 
robbera had been crucified. Now they were uncertain, and did not know 
how to find ont which was the wood of the Cross of Christ. Finally 
they placed each cross upon 2 dead body: when, then, it was touched by 
the wood of tha Cross of Christ, the dead man became alive again. 
Thereby, of course, Helena knew that this cross was the right one. 

Other Christians, who are not Icarned people, speak of the cross in 
the constellation of the Dolphin, which the Arabs call Ka‘id (riding- 
camel), ¢.c. four etara close to Alnasr Alwd ft’, the situation of which is 
like the angles of a quadrangle. They ssy that at that time this cross 
in the Dolphin appeared opposite that place where Messiah had heen 
crucified. Now, it is very strange that those people should not reflect 
ttle and find out that there are nations in ths world who consider it as 
their business to observe the stars and to examine everything connected 
with the stars for ages and ages, one generation inheriting from the 
other at least this knowledge, that the stars of the Dolphin are fired 
stars, which in this quality of theirs had long ago been recognized by 
their ancestors who cared for euch things. 

And more than this. This Christian sect indulges % sujorem Crucis 
gloriam in all sorta of tricks and hallucinations, e.g. God ordered the 
Israelites to make & serpent of brass and to hang it on a beam, which 
was to be erected, for the purpose of keeping off the injury done by the 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


THE FESTIVALS, ETC, OF THE SYRIAN CALENDAR. 293 


serpents when they had becomes very numerous among them in the desort. 
Now from this fact they infer and maintain that it was a prophecy and 
ahint indicative of the Cross (of Christ). 

Farther they say that the sign of Muses (i.e, the divine gift by which 
he wrought miracles) was his staff, and a staif is a longitudinal line. 
Now when Christ came, He threw His staff over such 3 liue, and a cross 
was formed, whieh is to he indicative of the fact that the law of Moses 
was completed (finished) hy Christ. But I sheuld think that that which 
is perfect in itself does not admit of any increase or decrease, which you 
might prove in this way, that if you threw a third staff over the croas, 
from whatever side you like, you get the jines of the word X (:0), which 
means 20 increase and xe decrease, 

This is certainly the same sort of hallucination frequently occurring 
among those Muslims who try to derive mystical wisdom from the com- 
parison of the name of Muhammad (s«.) with the human figure. 
Accordiug to them the Mim is like his head, the HA ks his body, the 
second Mim like his belly, and the Dial like his two feet. These people 
seem to he completely ignorant of lineaments, if they compare the mea- 
sure of the head and the helly (hoth expressed hy the same letter Mim) 
and the quantity of the limbs which project out of the mass of the body, 
forgetting at the same time the means for the perpetuation of our race. 
Perhaps, however, they meaut individuals of the feminine, not of the 
masculine sex. I shonld like to know what they would say of such 
names as in their outward form, but for the addition or orrission of one 
letter, resemble the form of the name of Muhammad, for instauce, s> 
Or qe (Hamid or Majid), and others, If you would compare some of 
them accordinz to their method, the matter would simply become ridicu- 
lous and ludicrous. 

More curious still than this is the fact that this Christian scct, in the 
matter of the Cross and its verification, refers to the wood of Peonia. 
For, if you cut this wood, you observe in the plans of the cut lineaments 
which resemble a cross. They go even so far as to maintain that this 
fact originated at the tim when Christ was crucified. This wood is 
frequently used in this way, that a piece of it is attached to a man who 
suffers from cpilepsy, heing considered as a symbol of the resurrection 
of the dead. Now, I should like te know whether they never study 
medical books and never hear of those authors who lived long hefore 
Christ, and on whose authority the excellent Galenus gives the descrip- 
tion of this wood. Those who use the works of soul and nature as 
arguments regarding physical appearances, from whatever theory they 
start, and how widely soever discordant their theories may he, will 
always manage to find that the starting-point of their argument agreva 
with that which they maintain, and that their first seutence resembles 
that at which they aim. However, such arguments can never he 
accepted, unless there he a reason which }:operly connects that which is 


p.298. 


994, aLbinont. 


moasuted with that by which you measure, tha proef with that which ia 
toe be proved. There exist, eg. double formations or correlations in 
things opposite to each other (e.g. black and white, &c.), triple formations 
in many leaves of plants and in their kernels, quadruplications in the 
motions of ths stars and in the fsver days, quintuplications in the bslls 
of the foware and in ths Jeaves of most of thsir blossoms, and in thcir 
veing ; ssxtuplications are 2 natural ferm of cycles, and occur also in hee- 
hives and snow-fiakes. | So all numbers are found in physical appear- 
ances of the works of sou] and life, and specially in fowers and blesseme. 
For the leaves of sach blossom, their bells and veins, show in their 
formation certain nwmbers (numerical relations) peculiar to each species 
ofthem. Now, if anybody wants to support his theory by referring to 
one ef thesa species, hs can do ao (i.e. there is material enough for doing 
80), but who will believe him ? 

Also in minsrals yon find sometimes wonderful physical peculiarities. 
People relate, ¢.g. that in the Mokedéra (altar-place) of the Mosque in 
Jerusalem there is a whits stone, with a nearly-obliterated inscription to 
this effect: “Muhammad is the prophet of God, may God be merciful to 
him!” And behind the Kibla there is another white stone with this 
abliterated inscription: “In the name ef God the clement, the merciful ! 
Muhammad is the prophet of God, Hamza is his help.” Further, stones 
for rings, with the name ‘Ali, the Prince of the Believers, are of frequent 
occurrence, because the figure of the name ‘Ali is frequently found in 
the veins of mountains. 

To this category, too, belong certain forgeries, e.g. some Shi'a preacher 
once asked me to teach him something which he might utilize. Se I 
produced to him from the Kitéb-alalwif of Alkindt the recipe of (an 
information how to make) an ink composed of various pungent materials, 
This ink you drop upon an agate and write with it; if you then hold tho 
atone near the fire the writing npon ths stone becomes apparent in white 
coleur. Now, in this manner he wrote (upon stones) the names Mu- 
hammad, ‘Ali, etc., even without doing the thing very carefully or under- 
standing it particularly well, and then he proclaimed that these stones 
were formations of nature and had come from such and such a place. 
And for such forgeries he got much money from the Shi'a people. 

Among the peculiarities of the flowers there is one really astonishing 
fact, viz. the number of their leaves, the tops of which form a circls 
when they begin to open, is in Most cases conformable to the laws of 
geometry. In most cases they agree with the chords that have heen 
found by the lawe of geometry, not with conic sections. You scarcely 
ever find a flower of 7 er 9 leaves, for you cannot construct them 
according to ths laws of geometry in a circle as isoscela (triangles). The 
number of their leaves is alwaya 8 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 18. This is a mattcr 
of frequent occurrence. Possibly one may find one day some species of 
flowers with 7 or 9 leaves, or one may find among the species hitherto 


10 


20 


80 


20 


30 


40 


THE FESTIVALS, ETC, OF THE SYIIAN CALENDAR. 299 


known such a number of leaves; but, on the whole, one must say nature 
preserves its genera and species such as they are. For if you would, eg. 
count ths numher of seeds of one of the (many) pomegranates of a tree, 
you would find that all the ether pomegranates contain the same number 
of seeds aa that one the sceds of whigh you have counted first. So, too, 
natora preceeds in all other matters. Frequently, however, you find in 
tha functions (actions) of nature which it is her office to fulfil, soma 
fault (some irregularity), but thie only serves to show that the Creator 
who had designed something deviating from the general tenor of things, 
ie infinitely sublime beyond cverything which we poor sinnere may 
conecive and predicate of Him. 


Now we return to our subject. 

8. Commemoration of John, author of the fourth Gospel, and of 
Areenius, the monk. 

9. Iesaia, the prophet. Dadhishi, in his commentary on the Gospel, 
calle him t.x%, God knows best (which ie the right form). 

10. Dionysius, the bishop. 

12. Epiphanius, the archbishop. 

13. Julianus, martyr. 

15. Feast of Roses according to the new rite, (postponed to this date) 
hecause on the 4th the roses are etill very scarce. Qn the same date it 
is celehrated in Khurasin, net on the original date. 

16. Zacharias, the prophet. 

20. Cyriacus, the anchorite. 

22, Constantine the Victorious. He was the first king who reeided in 
Byzantium and surrounded it with walls, The town was after him 
called Constantinople ; it is the residence of his successors. 

24, Simeon, the monk, who wronght a great miracle. 


Haziran. 


1, Feast of Harz, when people bring ears of the wheat of their fields, 
read prayere over them, and invoke the blessing of God for them. 

On the eaine day commemoration of John the son of Zakaria, through 
which they purpose gaining the favour of God for their wheat. Thie 
feast they celebrate instead of the Jewish ‘Azereth. 

3. Commemoration of Nebukadnezar's burning the children, ‘Azarya, 
Hanavya, and Michael. Also commemoration of the renovation of tha 
temple. 

5. Athanasius, the patriarch. 

&. Cyrillue, the patriarch, who drove Nestorius, the author of 
Neatorianism out of the Church, and excommunicated him. 

12. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the four evangelists. 

18 Leontius, martyr. 


p.299. 


0, 


296 AuBirOnf, 


21. Berekhy&, the presbyter, who brought Christianity to Marw about 
two hundred yeara after Christ. 

22. Gabriel and Michael, the archangels. Their commemoration they 
consider as a means to gain the favour of God, and they ask God to 
protect the creation from any injury done by the heat. 

25. Birth of John b. Zachariah. Between the annuneistion of his 
birth and his birth itself there elapsed 258 days, i.e. 8 months and 
18 days. 

26. Febronia, the martyr, who was tortured to death. 

29. Death of Paul, the teacher, the apostle of Christianity. 

80. Peter, i.e. Simeon Kephas, the head of the messengers, i.e. apostles. 


Tammiz. 


1. The twelve apostles, the pupils of Christ. 

2. Thomas, the apostle, who did not believe in Christ when he bad 
returned after His crucifixion, untit he touched the ribs of His side. There 
he felt the trace of the wound, where the Jews had pierced Him. He is 
the same apostle through whom India was Christianized. 

5. Dometius, martyr. 

?. Procopius, martyr. 

8. Martha, the mother of Simeon Thaumaturgus. 

9. Commemoration of Nehukadnezar’s burning the three children. 
They assert that, if they did not keep this commemoration, they would 
suffer from the heat of Tammiz. 

10. The forty-five martyrs. 

11. Phoecaa, martyr. 

13. Thuthael, martyr. 

14. John of Marw, the younger, who was killed in our time. 

15. Cyricus, and his mother, Julitta. Cyricus is said to have argued, 
when & child of three years, with decisive arguments against some king. 
Through him fourteen thousand men wers converted to Christianity. 

20. Feast of the Grapes, when they hring the first grapes, and pray to 
God that He may give blessing and increase, rich thriving and growing. 

21. Paphnutius, martyr. 

26, Panteleémon, martyr, the physician. 

27, Simeon Stylites, the mouk. 

80. The seventy-two disciples of Christ. 


ib. 


1. Fasting on account of the illness of Mary, the mother of Christ; it 
lasts fifteen days, and the last day is the day of her death. 


10 


20 


30 


On the same day, commemoration of Solomonis the Makkehean. The 40 


magians killed her sevew children, and roasted them in roasting-pans, 


10 


20 


30 


THE FESTIVALS, RIC. OF THE SYRIAN CALENDAR. 297 


5. Moses, the son of Amram. 

6. Feast of Mount Tabor, regarding which the Gospel relates that once 
the prophets, Moses, the son of Amram, and Elias, appeared to Christ on 
Mount Tabor, when three of His diseijJes, Simeun, Jacob, aud Jolin, were 
with Him, but slept. Wheu they awoke and saw this, they were frightened, 
and spoke: “ May our Lord, ie. Messiad. permit us to build three tents, 
one for Thee, and the other twe for Moses aud Elias.” They had not vet 
finished speaking wheu three clouds standing high ahove them covered 
them with their shadow; then Moses and Elas entered the cloud and 
disappeared. Moses was dead already a long time before that, whilst 
Elias was alive, and is still living, as they say; but he dovs uct show 
himself to mankiud, hidiug himscl£ froru their eyes. 

7, Blias, the ever-living, whom we meutioned just now. 
8. Elisha, the prophet, disciple of Elias. 
9. Rabila, the bishop. 

10. Mamas, martyr. 

I5. Feast in commemoration of the death of Mary. The Christians 
make a differenee hetween ** Commemoration’ and “ Feast”; the latter is 
an affair of more importance than the former. 

16. Iesaia, Jeremia, Zakaria, and Hezekiel, the prophets. 

1?. The martyrs Seleuens and his bride Stratouice. 

20. Samuel, the prophet. 

21. Lucius, martyr. 

26. Szha, the monk, weak from age. 

29, Decapitation of John. Alma’miin b. Ahmad Alsalamt Alharawi 
relates that he saw in Jerusalem some heaps of stones at a gate, called 
Gate of the Colunur; they had been gathered so as to form something 
like hills and mountains. Now people said that those were thrown over 
the blood of John the son of Zacharias, but that the blood rose over 
them, boiling and bubbling. This went on till Nebukadnezar killed the 
people, and made their blood flow over it; then it was quict. 

Of this story there is nothing in the Gospel, and I do not know what 
I aa to say of it. For Nebukadnezar came fo Jerusalem nearly four 
handred and forty-five years before the death of Johu; and the seeond 
destruction was the work of the Greek kings, Vespasiau and Titus. But 
it seems that the peuple of Jerusalem eall everyhody who destroyed their 
town Nebukaduezar,; for I have heard some historian say that in this 
case is meant Jidarz h. Shipir b. Afkirshah, one of the Ashkanian 
kings. 

30. Commemoration of all the prophets. 


Tal 
1. Pestam corone anni. They pray aud invoke God’s blessing for the 
end of the year, and the begiuning of the new one because with this 
month the year reaches its end. 


p-301. 


302, 


298 aLpiren?. 


8. Commemoration of the esven martyrs killsd in NishApar. 

8. Henna, mother of Mary, and Joyakim, the father of Mary. 

13. Feast of the renovation of the temple, with prayers. On this day 
they renovate their churches, 

14, Feast in recollection of Constantine and Helena his mother finding 
the Cross, which they seized out of the hande of the Jows It was buried 
in Jerusalem, but on this subject we have spoken already. 

15. Commemoration of the Six Synods. 

16. Euphemia, martyr. 

20. The martyrs Eustathius, his wife, and mother. 10 

28. Vitellius, martyr. 

24, Thecla, martyr, who was burned to death. On the same day, the 
feast of the Church of the Sweepinga (i.e. Church of Resurrection) in 
Jerusalem. 

25. Ths martyrs Sabinianus, Paulus, and Tatta. 

28, Chariton, the monk. 

29. Gregorius, the bishop, the apostle of the Armenians. 


This, pow, is all we know of the commemorations an@ feaats of the 
Melkites, in some of which they agree with the Nestorians. Of these we 
shall treat in a special chapter, but first we shall give an explanation of 99 © 
Lent as something which lies in the midst between both eects, being 
common to both of them. 


10 


20 


299 


CHAPTER XVI. 


ON THE CHRISTIAN LENT, AND ON THOSE FEASTS AND FESTIVE DAYS 
WHICH DEPEND UPON LENT AND BEYOLVE PARALLEL WITH IT 
THROUGH THE YEAR, EEGARBDING WHICH ALL CHRISTIAN SECTS 
AOREE AMONG EACH OTHEE. 


Hezerorozs we have explained in such a manner as will suffice for every 
want, and more than that, all the particulars relating to the Passover of 
the Jews, its conditions, the mode in which it is calculated, and tha 
reason on which this calculation rests. Christian Lent is one of the 
institutioms dependent on Passover, and is in more than ons way con- 
neeted with it. We now present such infermation regarding Lent as 
corresponds to the purpose for whieh the practiees of Lent ars intended 
—by the help of God and His merey. 

Christian Lent always laste forty-eight days, beginning on a Monday 
and ending on a Sunday, the forty-ninth day after its beginning. The 
last Sunday befors the end of Lent (or Fast-breaking), is that one which 
they call Satintn (4c, Hosanna or Palm Sunday). 

Now, one of the conditions which they have established is this, that 
Passover (Easter) must always fa)i in the time betwcen Palm Sunday 
and Fast-brenking, i.e. in the last weelz of Lent. It cannot fal) earlier 
than Palm Sunday, nor later than the last day of Lent. 

The limits within which the Jewish Pasaovcr revolves, we have already 
heretufore mentioned. Regarding these the Christians do not agree with 
them, nor regarding the beginning of the cycles (Gigal). The word 
Jijal, or cycle, is an Avalized Syriac word. in Syriac Gigal. n caning the 
same ag the Jewish Mafzér. But it is only proper that we should mention 
the Termini peculiny to each nation. So they cali the Great Cycle, 
Indictio (sie); but as it is troublesome to pronounce this word so 


p.808. 


300 aLBinonf. 


frequently in our discourse, we ahall ase the term Great Jijal (i.e. Great 
Cycle). 

The differance regarding the cycles has this origin: According to the 
Jewa the first year of the re Alezandri is the tenth year of the Cycle 
(Enneadecateris), whilst according to the Christians it is the 18th year. 
For some of them count the interval between Adam and Alexander as 
5069 years, othera as 5180 years. The majority uses the latter 
number; it ia also well known among scholars (of other nations). 
It occurs ¢g. in the following verses of Khalid b. Yazid b. Mn‘awiya h. 
*Abi-Sufyin, who was the first philosopher in Islam, people aay sven 
that the aource of his wisdom was that learning which Danie) had derived 
from the Treasure-Cave, the asme one where Adam the father of mankind 
had deposited his knowledge. - 


“When 10 years had elapsed besides other 8 complete yeara, 
And further 100 single years, which were joined in right order to 
6 times 1000, 
He manifested the religion of his lord, Islam, and it was consolidated 
and established by the Flight (Hijra);” ie. Anno Adami 6113. 


Tho Hijra occurred A. Alexandri 933. If you enbtract this from the 
just mentioned 6113 years of the dra Mundi, you get as remainder 


5180 years 


(as the mterval between Adam and Alexander). Now they converted 
thia number of years into Small Cycles, and got as remainder 


12 years, 


te. at the heginning of the dra Alezandri 12 years of the current 
Enneadecateris had already elapsed. 

Further they arranged the years of the Enneadecateria according to the 
Ordo Iniercalationis PAM (ie. 2. 5. 7. 10. 13. 16. 18.), hecause thia 
arrangement stands by itself, as not requiring you to subtract anything 
from the years of the era. 

In the fimt year of the cycle they fixed Passover on the 25th of Adhar, 
because in the year when Christ was crucified it must have fallen on this 
date. Starting from this point they arranged the Passovers of all the 
other years. Its earliest date is the 2lat Adhiir, its latest date the 
18th Nisin. So the Terminus Paschalis extends over 28 days, 

Therefore the earliest date of Passover falls always by two days later 
than the vernal equinox as obaerved hy eye-aight (zc. the 19th Adhar). 
And this is to serve as a help and precaution againat that which is men- 
tioned in the 7th Canon of the Canones A postolo,um : “* Whatever bishop, 
or presbyter, or diaconus celebrates the feast of Passover befors the 
equinox together with the Jewe, shall be deposed from his rank.” 


10 


20 


30 


40 


10 


20 


30 


40 


UN THE CHRISTIAN LENT. 301 


If tho Fast-breakting (Fitr) of the Christians were identical with their 
Passover, or if it fell always at onoand tha same invariable distance from 
Passover, both would revolve through the years either on the samo days, 
or parallel with each other on eorresponding Qays. Since, however, 
Fast-breaking can never precede Passover, its earliest possible date falls 
by one day Jater than the earliest possible date of Passover, ic. on the 
22nd Adhar (the 21st Adhfr being the earliest date of Passover), And 
the latest. date of Fnst-breaking falls by one week later than the latest 
date of Passover; because if one and the same day should happen (to be 
Fast-breaking and Passover, i.e. a Sunday), Fast-breaking would fall on 
the next following Sunday. In this case it would fall by one week later 
than Passover. If, therefore, Passover falls on its latest possible date 
(18th Nisin), Fast-breaking also falls on its latest possible date, é.c. on 
the 25th Nisfn. 

Therefore the days within which Fast-breaking varies are 35. And 
for the same reason the beginning of fasting varies parallel with Fast- 
breaking on the corresponding days, the earliest being the 2nd Shubat, 
tha latest the 8th Adhar. Accordingly tha greatest interval between the 
beginning of Lent and Passover is 49 days, the smallest interval 
42 days. 

Between the full moon of Passover and the new moon of Adhiir in a 
common year, of Adhar Secundus in a leap-year, is an interval of 


44 days, 7 hours, 6 mimutes, 


This new moon falls always between the beginning of the smallest in- 
terval and the greatest interval (between the beginning of Lent and 
Passover), and falls near the beginning of Lent. And this new moon 
has been made the hasis of the whole caleuiation in this way: You 
observe the new moon of Shiibat and consider which Monday is the 
nearest to it, the preceding one or the following. If this Monday lies 
within the Terminus Jejunii, i.e. hetween the 2nd Shubft and the 8th 
Adhir, it is the beginning of Lent. If, however, this Monday does not 
reach the Terminus Jejunii, and lies in the time before it, that new moon 
is disregarded, and you repeat the same consideration with the following 
new moon. In this way you find the beginning of Lent. 

Ag we have mentioned already, Passover may proceed towards the 
beginning of the year as far as the 21st Adhir, which is its earliest 
possible date. If full moon falls on this day and it is a Sabbath, the 
year is ® common year, tha new moon by which you calculate falls on 
the 4th Shnhft and the preceding Monday, which is the nearest Monday 
to this date, and therefore the beginning of the Terminus Jejunii is the 
Ist Shubdt, if the year be a leap-year, bnt the 2nd Shubat if the year 
is acommon year. This date lies within the Terminus Jejunii, and so it 
is the beginning of Lent. 


p.304. 


p.805. 


802 aLBinoxi. 


The latest pessihle date of Passover is the 18th of Nisin. Ff full 
moon falls on this day, and it is a Sunday, tbe yearis a leap-year, the 
new moon by which you calculate, i.e. the new moon of Adhdr Secundus, 
falls on the Sth of the Syrian Adhar, and the &th of the aame month ie 
that Monday which follows after this new moon and falls the nearest to 
it, because in this case the Ist of the Syrian Adhir is a Monday. There- 
fore the beginning of Leut is the 8th Adhiér, which is at tho same time 
the latest possible date for the beginning of the Terminus Jejunii. 

If ws wers togo back upen the new moon of Adhir Primus, we should 
find that it falls onthe Sth Shubat ina common year, whilst the let Shubit 
isa Sunday. In that case the preceding Monday would be nearest to it 
(the 2nd Shubit), which is the beginning of the Terminus Jejunii. Now, 
this day would he euitable to he the beginning of Lent, if it also corre- 
sponded to al] the other conditions (but that is not the cass); viz. if we 
make this day the beginning of Lent, Faat-breaking would fall about 
one month earlier than Passover ; and this is not permitted, according to 
a dogma of theirs. And if the year were a leap-year, new moon would 
fall on the 4th Shubat, and then the preceding Monday, being the 
Nearest to it, would bo the Ist Shubét, and this date docs not lie within 
the Perminus Jejunii (2nd Shubat—8th Adhfr). Therefore we must 
disregard this new moon and fall back upon the following one. 

The followers of Christ wanted to know before-hand the Passover of 
the Jewa, in order to derive thence the beginning of their Lent. So they 
consulted the Jews, and asked them regarding thie eubject, but the Jews, 
guided by the enmity which exists between the two parties, teld them 
liea in order to lead them astray. .And besides, the eras of both parties 
differed. Finslly, many of the Christian mathematicians took the work 
in hand and made calculations with the varioua cyclea and different 
methods. Now, that method which they at last agreed to ‘adopt, ie the 
table called Xpovxar, of which they maintain that it was calculated by 


Eusebius, Bishop of Cmsarez, and the 818 bishops of the Synod of 
Nicwa, 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE CHRISTIAN LENT. 


Tur Chronicon or THE CHRISTIANS. 


303 


anarCyele! tai sia: alg 


L 


L. 


| 


———j 


7!aissi n fiz ]as' 14 [15 | 38 v7 is} 16| 


1 

geil y ay | a ce 
Be ns bearer ce eis!S'els tally 
Gigi dgigiag Fo glgigig 213/22 4.3 
a|@laj@idialSlé-aid aid, aja js,8 3) 
. 1 aay a eee EP A ee ANE, 

i ae a aa a [,! malts 
u ale cl Be 2%; ni 4fis db oF a |1l, aii 
to! sfaz! sfostaz! asea+20 a)az{iolas 17] 3) 24] 10] a: 2 
eo! 1{361 ol 23 16 | ai sa 9, 1/23] 8} 1 16} 9 afie] ifes 
7 | 285 7lealis' 7‘ 21 as! op}er| 7/23 as! 7/21} a4 7|a 
sler|os! aler!is' 6‘ 20°13: 27} e0| aler‘as| 6 /e7]aal 6! 20 
| siagi w! 5] 10 abe wp sles 2! s!i9 
y's a! stiafartas ae! s'es}ant gies 
lg! ost gl a ei a! 926 2! ag ww! ates 
a'or' a! ales! ola 8 atoalas! ates 
Vata ag! on | or! 7] 3814) tlalw! ria 
| 3[20 8 5 2a e270 e127 5% 
4,8 1) 4) 18 1 as 18, 4.85 11 4 as 
j 3% 1 8 17 j10] 26 7| g}24;10j 9/96 
; 2,88, 9 8/18, 9, 2,16) 2,2e9;16 9 28 
j 7.28 WG 29/82, 8,29, 15 i ae el ee 
; 0 29 18 $7) 9) 6 27,38 a,97 113, 6 20 
, 5.1928. 5] 19, 5:20) 19) 6,26) 12, 5 19 
14.95 11 4118; 12) 2) 18] 4725/11) 4; 28 
2). tele w7| 3|ea)i 2 js 
8 8,22: 8] 1j)2a/ 8) 1) 38} a) 2a) as) 1) 22 
[7 Tau: tej ee) a zfs} 24) 9} en} as | 
6 1 9:20 19,27] 20 ale 13/ aj 27/13 gj 2 
5 ai og [i2! 4 19 [39 28/19/ 5|26]19| 4119 
| fa] 8fau]m| a: a2] sf fo] aafa| as} ain 
8} 2/16) ayes}iet a-as' 9) ajas| a! 2/36] 2} 25) a6 2! es 
a} 1jas} a}aa{35i sizes a} a}es} af a}as} o}eafasl xl ee 
7|es [21] 7[2a[ a4) santas] ea] 21 7 | os | rfesfasl ata 
1g] 20 |a0! 5| a0] a2] & 19 fi| 529] s | 2 | 19| s|26[3a| sé 


BOE 
802. 


p.808. 


304 ALBIRENT, 


Festivals depending upor Lent. 


[Lacune.] 


to give up their religion. Then they fled ons night and perished to the 
last of them. This Friday they call also The Small Hosanna. 

The first Suuday after Fast-breaking is called the New Sunday, on 
which day Messiah dressed in white. They use it as the commencement 
of all kinds of work, and as a dats for commercial agreements and 
written contracts. For it is, as it wore, the first Sunday, because the 
preceding one is specially known by a more famous name, i.e. Fast- 
breaking. 

All Sundays are highly celebrated by the Christians, because Hosanna 
and Resurrection fall on Sundays. Likewiso the Sabbeths are celebrated 
by the Jews because, as is said in the Thora, God reatid ou this day on 
having finished the creation. And, according to some scholars, Muslims 
celebrate their Friday because on that day the Creator finished the 
creation of the world and breathed His spirit into Adam. According to 
the astrologers, in all religions certain week-days are celebrated, because 
the horoscopes of their prophets and the constellations indicative of 
their coming stood under the influence of the planets that reign over 
these respective days. 

Forty days after Fast-breaking is the feast of Ascension, always fai..ag 
on a Thursday. On this day Messia’s ascended to heaven from the Mount 
of Olives, and He ordered His disciples to stay in that room where He 
had celebrated Passover in Jerusalem, until Hs should send them the 
Paraclete, i.e. the Holy Ghost. 

Ten days after Ascension is Whiitaun Day, always on a Sunday. It is 
the day when the Paraclete came down and Messiah revealed Himself ta 
His disciples, ic. the Apostles. Then they began to speak different 
tongues ; they separated from each other, and each party of them went 
to that country with the language of which they were inspired and 
which they were able to speak. 

On the evening of this day the Christians prostrate themselves upon 
the earth, which they do not do between Fast-breaking and this day, for 
during this time they say their prayers standing erect, all in conse. 
quence of some biblical commandment to this effect. The same (pros. 
tration) is proclaimed for all the (other} Sundays by the last Canon of 
the first Synod. 

The beginning of the Fasting of the Apostles, according to the Melkites, 
isa Wednesday, ten days after Whitsunday. It is broken always on a 
Sunday, 46 days after its beginning, 

The third day of this fasting, a Friday, is called the Golden Friday. 
For on this day the Apostles passed a lames man in Jerusalem, who 
asked people for a gift. He invoked the name of God, asking them for 
alms. They answered: “ We have neither gold nor .ilver. However, 


10 


20 


380 


40 


ON THE CHRISTIAN LENT. 305 


rise, carry away your bed, and go to your business. That is the best we 
can do for you.” Tho man rose, free from pain, carried away his bed, 
and went te his business. 

Most of these festivals are mentioned in the Tudle of Festing, which is 
arranged in seven columns. If you find Fasting by this table, yon find 
at the same time these festivals—if God permits! 


20 


p.809. 


806 arsteoni. 


CHAPTER XVII. 


ON THE FESTIVALS OF THE NESTORIAN CHRISTIANS, THEIR MEMORIAL 
AND FAST DAYS. 


Nestorius, fram whom this sect derives its origin and name, opposed 
the Molkites and brought forward a theory on the dogmas of Chris- 
tianity which necessitated a schism between them. For he instigated 
people to examine and to investigate for themselves, to use the means of 
logic, syllogism, and analogy for the purpose of being prepared to 
oppose their adversaries, and to argue with them ; in fact, to give up 
the Jurare in verba magistrt. This was the method of Nestorius himself, 
He established as laws for his adhereuts those things in which he 
differed from the Melkites, differences to which hs had been led by his 
investigation and unwearying study. 

Now I shall proceed to propound all I have been able to learn 
regarding thei festivals and memorial-days. 

Nestorians and Melkites agree ameng each other regarding some 
memorial-days, whilst they disagree regarding others. 

Those days, regarding which they differ, are of two kinds: 

1. Days altogether abolished by the Nestorians. 


2. Days not abolished by them, but celebrated at a time and ina 
manner different from that of the Melkites. 


Further, such Nestorian festivals, not celebrated by the Mellites, 
which are derived from the feast-times common to both sects (Lent, 
Christmas, Epiphany). 

Besides, there is a fourth class of Nestorian feast-days, not used by 
the Melkitea, which are not derived from the (common) feast-times also 
used by the Mellites. 


A. Feaste regardir 7 which Nestorians and Melkites agree among each 
other: Christmas, Epiphany, the Feast of Waz, the beginning of the 


lo 


20 


10 


20 


80 


THE FEASTS AND FASTS OF THE NESTORIAN OURISTIANS. 307 


Fasting, the Great Hosanna, tha Washing of the Feet. of the Apostles, 
the Passover of the Messiah, the Friday of Crucifixiou, Resurrection, 
Fast-breaking, the New Sunday, Ascension, and Whitsunday, the fasting 
of Our Iady Mary, and some of the momorial-days which we hava 
mentioned heretofore. 


B, Feasts common to beth escts, but celebrated hy the Nestorians at 
a time and in a manner different from that of the Melkites :— 

1, Ma‘altht (Ingrcesus). On thie feast they wander from the naves 
of the churches up to their roofs, in commemoration ef the returning of 
the Israelites to Jerusalem. It is also called 12s 30D (Sanciification 
of the Church). It is celebrated on tho fs? Sunday of Tishrin II.,if the 
let of this month falls en a Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, or 
Sunday ; but if it falls on a Monday or Tuesday, the feast is celehrated 
on the lest Sunday of TishrinI. The characteristic mark of the day, as I 
have heard John the Teacher say, is this, that it is the Sunday falling 
hatween the 30th of Tishrin I. and the 5th of Tishrin I. 

2. Subbér (Annuntiatio), Feast of the annunciation to Mary that she 
was pregnant with the Messiah, celebrated on the first Sunday in 
Kinin L, if the first of the month falls on a Friday, Saturday, or Sun- 
day; but if it falls on a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thureday, 
the feast is celebrated on the Jest Sunday of Tishrin IJ. In every case 
it is the 5th Sunday after the Sunday of Ma‘at‘thd. 

In the year when the Messiah was bern, the Ist of Kinin I. waa a 
Sunday. Between this day and that of Hie birth there are 25 daya. 
Now, Christiane say: Messiah differs from mankind in so far ag He 
has not originated through an act of begetting; likewise the period of 
His sojourning in the womb of His mother is contrary to the ways of 
human nature. The annnnciation (of the pregnancy) may already have 
occurred at a time when the embryo (er growing child) was already 
aettled in the womb; it may also have occurred earlier or later. I 
have been told that the Jacobites celebrate Subbdr on the 10th of the 
Jewish Nisin; this day fell, in the year preceding the year of Christ’s 
birth, on the 16th of the Syrian Adhar. 

3. The Fasting of Our Lady Mary. It begins on Menday after the 
Sunday of Subddr, and it ends en Christmas-day. 

4, The Decollation of John the Baptist. The Nestorians celebrate it on 
the 24th of Ab. 

5. Conumemoration of Simeon b. Sabbisé, te. con of the dyers, on the 
17th Ab. 

6. The Feast of the Cress, colehrated by the Neatorians on tha 13th 
TMl. For on this day Helena found the Cross, and she shewed it to the 
people on the following day, the 14th. Therefore the Christians cama 
to an agreement among each other, the Nestorians adopting the day of 
the finding, the othera the day when it was ahown to the people. 


2c * 


p.310. 


psil. 


306 ALBinéxt. 


C. Feasts celshrated by the Melkites only, and fixed by them on 
certain dates of their own, are, eg. — 

1. Commemoration of Yohn of Kashkar, on the lst Tishrin I. 

2. Commsmoration of Mar Phetion, on the 25th of Tishrin I. 

8. The fsast of tho Monastery of John, on the 6th of Kinin I. 

4, Tho feast of the Church of Mary in Jerusalem, on the 7th of 
Kania i. 

5. Commemoration of Mar 4355, on the 25th of Haziran. 

6. Beginning of the Feast of Revelation, on the 6th of Ah; it is the 
last day on which Christ appeared to men. On the same day the feast 
of Dair-Alnds. The ond of the Feast of Revelation is on the 16th Ab. 

% Feast of Mar Mari, on the 12th Ab 

8. Commemoration of Orispinus and Crispiniavus, on the 3rd 111. 


D. Feasts fized by the Nestorians on certain week-days, regarding 
which the two sects have nothing in common. For instance :— 

1. Commaworation of the monk Kata or Mar Sergius, on the 7th 
Tishrin I, if the 1st of ths month is 2 Sunday; in any otner cass it is 
postponed to the Sunday following next after the 7; 

2. Commemoration of Solomonis, on the following Sunday, according 
to the practice of the Christians of Baghdid. 

8. The Feast of Dair-Abi Khalid, on the first Friday in Tisbrin II. 

4, Feast of the Monastery of Alkfdisiyya, on the third Friday of 
Tishrin IT. 

5. Feast of Dair-Alkabhai, on the fourth Friday of Tishria II. 

6. Commemoration of ay (Mar Saba ?), on the last Sunday of Tif. 

7. Feaat of Dair-Altha‘alib, on the lact Sabbath of Tlil; but if the lst 
of Tishrin I. of the next year be a Sunday, the feast is postponed to 
thia day, and falls no longer in Tlal. In that case the feast does not at 
all occur in the year in qnestion, whilst it occurs twice in the following 
year, once at the beginning and once at ths end. 


E Of those feasts, dependiug on certain days, which are common to 
both sects, there are three classes :— 


I. Those depending on the Lent, or Fast-breaking. 
TI. Those depending on Christmas. 
DL, Thoss depending on Epiphany. 


L Feasta depending on the beyinning or end of Lent ave, ¢.g. :— 


1. The Friday of ,ole\, the 12th day after heginning of Lent. 


2, Aldrita, te. liberation, on Thursday, ths 24th day after beginning 
of fasting. 


10 


20 


80 


3. Commemoration of Mar tJ and commemoration of Mar Cyriacus, 40 


the Child who preferred death to apostasy, on Friday the 20th day after 
Faot-breaking. 


10 


20 


30 


THE FEASTS AND PASTS OF TRE NESTORIAN CHRISTIANS. 309 


4. Commemoration of Shrin and Dirin the Armenians, who were 
killed by tho king Shipfir, on Sunday the 29th day after Fast-breaking. 

5. Fasting of the Apostles, according to the Nestorians, always 
heginning ov Monday, seven weeks after the Great Fast-breaking 
following after Whitsunday. It lasts during 40 days, and it is liroken 
always on a Friday. 

6. Commemoration of Mar Abdi, the pupil of Mar Miri, on Thursday, 
the l4th day after the end of the Fasting of the Apostles, which again 
depends on the Great Fast-breaking. 

7. Commemoration of Mar Mari on Friday, the 15th day after the end 
of the Fasting of the Apostles. 

8. Fasting of Elias, heginning on Mondar, 21 weeka after the Great 
Fast-breaking ; it lasts during 48 days, and it enda on a Sunday. 

Fasting of Ninive, on Munday, 22 days before the hegiuning of 
Lent, lasting three days. Tradition says that the people of the prophet 
Jona, after pnnishment had come upou them, and after God had again 
released them and they were in safety, fasted these three days. 

10. The Night of Alutskiish (the spy) is the night of a Friday, in 
which--as people sny—they seck Messiah. There is, however, a diffe- 
renee ; according to some it is the night of Friday, the 19th day after 
the Fasting of Elias; according to others it is the Priday on which 
Christ was crucified, called Alsalebét; according to others it is the 
Friday of the Martyrs, one weck after Alsalabét. The preference we 
give to the first of these three opinions. 

If, now, you know the beginning of Lent of a year ia qv tion, com- 
pare the column of the common year, if the year be a conmmon year, or the 
column of the Jeap-year, if the ycar he a leap-year, and opposite, in 
the table of the feasts depending on Lent, you will find the date of 
every feast in question, and also the date of the Fasting of Ninive, 
which precedes Lent. 

Here follows the table. 


ALBiron}. 


310 


Tante or THE Feasts DEPENDING on LENT. 


we 
“gue. Sypaoad : aese 5 wz 
II 2p0sH 
H STE | 32s ShSORiR AS RANA RSH TF Treene oananee 7 
pe) atone 70380 | “Tr = AS2 SksSgas kA RARK Raz & A MMASHH BARS 


ma] en eeanans BS ABA GRA A a anRaggineseene 


pi | sadly am yo rear | 


=} vex 03 | ae aan annanes Ra #ae* owe 8 & MOSaNA ARARASR 
3 sonny ‘ayaa, ease SRBSNBAR AA RARR ARS 'g B anwoo RECS 
lle ih EE 
r 
joomptoneartty ager | PRny SARSEAs ks ARAA ASA RK @ aawewe omeagan 
passin td le ee, 


y 

i, “Su uepon| avety| RAR BERARKEES? THSN OOS FA SASK aRANEAS 
— SiR Pen eT ee 

rf | 04 matpaoocts wold | were | Haat SENBegs NA ARAN ARS 8 LESewwen wagnans 
cody oq} JO 188y pe a ieee ball alanine ne 2 


BegOTART OG} RHAS SRRNRRA adfenes ore 8 8 SHRAGS SASRAAR 


B (ive eee! | e _ 
H | pov cams io" oa | ‘amt | 2858 RARARER gajeore ene 9 2 HARARE NRERANR 
‘ somioayyg pow wean | 8: Qy teenees gy RAR ERA e Ryroween mE 5309 
‘é o ae as cn baal 
B dom aon 30. "80 —— oe re 
s | sien) peqayg 8587 ooo ear ae aaa yen 2 SAQA, SuRSaae 
ey ARS BARBaNs Bh a 
Bo “yqe6ve fern | “sro | nan nS! S8SRn8R BEG cre paae J ROS SF 2snenag 
gf joo 30 Suyoayse «| 7 “pangs | owoo mmeansg 42 S822 880 &  ARGRAT THTOERe 
=| | noarsioo teat | 7 Wang | Sere emmegay Sy SEs Ska BR ARANRT Coteerm 
wert Jo Jaya ities —-_ 


10 


20 


80 


40 


7HE FEASTS AND FASTS OP THE NESTORIAN CHRISTIANS, 311 


II. The feasts depending on Christmas aro these :—The Feast of the 
Temple on Sunday after Christmas; the Commemoration of Our Lady 
Mary, “it. Mart Maryam—Mirt means mulier nobilis, domina—on Friday 
after Christmas. 1f, however, Christmas falls on Thursday, it is post- 
poned uxtil the second Friday, for this purpose, that Christmas and this 
Commemoration should not fellow each other immediately. For only 
the night of Tanrsday lies in the middle between the day of Thursday 
and the day of Friday (not one complete dar). 

IIT. Feasts depending on Epiphany :—The Fast of the Virgins on 
Monday after Epiphany ; it lasts three days, and is broken on Thursday. 
It ia also in use among the ‘Ibddites and the Arab Christians, who relate 
this story: Once the King of Al-hira, hefore the time of Islim, chose a 
number of women from among the virgins of the ‘Ibidites, whom he 
wanted to take for himsclf. Now, they fasted ihre days without any 
interruption, and at the end of them the king 4ied without having 
touched them. 

According to another report, this fast war kept by the Christian 
virgins among the Arabs as a thanksgiving ts God for the victory which 
the Arabs gained over the Persians on the day of Dhii Kir. So they 
were delivered from the Persians, who did not gct into their power the 
virgin Al‘ankafir, the dauglter of Alnu‘min. 

Frequently this fast is connected with the Ninive-Fast. For if Lent 
falls on its earliest date, the Monday after Epiphany is the Fast of the 
Virgins. Then there are twenty-two days hetween this fast and Lent. 
In that case this day is also the beginuing of the Fast of Ninive. Both 
fasts (Jejunium Virginum et Jejunium Niniviticum) last three days. 

Thereupon they celebrate the Commemoration of Miir Johannes on 
Friday after Epiphany. 

The Commemoration of Peterand Paul on the second Friday after 
Epiphany, that one which follows after the Commemoratiou of Mir 
Johannes. Paulus was a Jew. Now, they maintainthat Messiab werked 
a miracle in blinding his eyes aud making them see again, whereupon 
he helieved in Hin. Then Messiah eent him as an apostle to the 
nations. Petrus is the same as Simeon Kephas. 

The Commemoration of the Four Evangelists, on the third Friday. 

The Cominemoration of Stephanus, martyr, on the fourth Friday. 
Some people place it on Thursday, one day earlier. 

The Commemoration of the Syrian Fathers, on the fifth Friday. 

The Commemoration of the Greck Fathers, 7.e, Diodorus, Theodorus, 
and Nestorius, the bishops, on the sixth Friday. 

The Commemoration of Mir Abhi’ Catholicus, on the seventh Friday. 

The Commemoration of the Children of Adam, te. of all mankind 
that have died up to that date, on the cighth Friday. But if there are 
not enough Fridays, and Lent is near, they drop the Conmemorition of 
the Syrian Fathers, and celebrate instcad the Commemoration of Mar 


p34. 


315. 


812 aLsfrtnf. 


Abba Catholicus, snd then they proceed according to tha original order. 
Daring Lent they drop the Fridays, and on the evening of every Friday 
they have a Kuddds, i.e. worship. 

They havo constructed for the days depending on Christmas and 
Epiphany and the week-days in question a tahle, indicating their dates 
in the Syrian months. If you want to use it, take the years of tho Zra 
Alesandri, including tho current year, and change them into solar cycles. 
With the remainder compare the Column of Numbers im the table of 
the Nestorian festivals. There you find opposite the number each 
festival ; if in red ink, ita date inthe month written in red ink at the 
top of the column ; if in black ink, the date in the month written in 
black ink at the top of the column. Over the whole you find the week- 
day on which the feast always falls. 

If we lmew tha system of ths Jacobite Christians, we should explain 
it, as we have explained those of the other Christians. However, we 
never met with a man who belonged to their sect or mew their 
dogmas. 

Here follows the table. 


10 


THE FEASTS AND FASTS OF TUE NESTORIAN cuRisTiANs. 318 
} oo. LL VEVEVEL 1. iL VL WW. Vi VI VII. VL vi. vi VL VI. F vu! Pests, 
tao dle ie a tlh ciak cy dhe id sl 
:8 2 Fe B(S F BSz BoB SS 8S 5 29 = 3ai 
i hy FER PIP PER BoM i REF a B Bt & Fe, 
oo! = ee ole plate. aie, cee te oan a oe 
(4! ible be é Gane 
Pe) Ga lelaleler Bee» iy hee 
ele i. | SE Sle elFl Ge. ! Leiciste =! 
“BE ig AE £:3(8'3 Fess gba Fetes 4: 
ie £ | S88 a|2lzls e283 F Ef HSEte 4! 
6 ae oy) 3 skeet Sift Sis2 ge g™ 25222 2 
EGS eave s/a/E/3anee te iP igis take} 
re Foes Na ia ee ieee (ie ea 
1| 7 21 4\ 2/16]! 2] $3 30| a8 7) 1; 8,15; 2 1 | a's 
2113 fo] 3) VIS] ] 1] 2]es] 3413, 10] 17, a] 7, 14+ 21! 86 | 29 | 28 
23] 12 (19,51 8 i 23] 30] 1] 23] 2 16 30 of 13 | er || 
wo PJ | 5 ]19| 26] 28] 99] 26 | 31 | 20 718 23 - aj 1 |r (2s 26 | 28 
sol ¢(aa|25le7t sl sisol 9 ok 27 | a1 anes 4) 8 25 | 
5] sli7|2} 3] 4/ or [29] afi2tis {26/90 2: 9) 16) 23. 2 | 2s 
4] e]ast2s| 2] 5}s0/ 2a] 7| uw |is}os|29| 1° 8] 15 22 | 29 | 90 1.2 
a| v|ax{an| anf 1{20| 2| 22] ofseles| 2[ a0] #|12| a (er |eal 7 
1| {20|27| 20] 90] 27] 1421] slas!ex| 2 [20] 61210! 20 22 | 26 
at| stig; 2cl2e} aot ost artio] yiaalar) ajead apn sa! 2s 26) 25 
go} 4]1a]2s}e7] 5s] 1 {aol ¢ so lapler sails ioli7|{2! a val hee 
4) a[ae} ar] @] of |so| 7) salu cofm| 1, afta! 1[00 2) 
3{ 1)15}23{ a{ 2} a9] s}aslioliz fos} afar l 7 [14 | on! 28 fag) os) 
2} 7]/21| 28) a0] 1} 25] 2/12] e136 |23} 3] 50; @} 13 | 20 | 27 | 23 | 27 
1} | 20] 27] 29} 20] 27) 1] | slas)22| 2]os' 5 12] 18: 26} 27 | 20 
sill ial exter tal sl sal'tol olan tar ee foal gol veloc elles ae 
shall gallo! sel-arlaoll Gel iglae fost tal alae les [20 
4| e{i1ofes} 2] 90) 28] 7] 1 fis; 25) 2] 1! ays | 22) 1/30 1.29 
a| 1 fas}ee} a] 2} 20 ele | afar! 2] 14 | 22} 20 | 20 | 2 
1! ¢|90/ 27] 20] s0{ 27] 1] 1 alas! 22 a0! s!12]10| 20 | 27 | 28 | 
ai| 5|19 |} 26} 28 | 29] 26/31} 10] +. 2s,21| 1/28 4, 11 (18) 25 | 261 25/ 
x0] 4 18128 7 s| 1] a0 sini 31 sw 17/2] 3 | 2524. 
51 3]17) 26 ay s.alj2a] 3 mer w| 2, 9:16] 2 l/s | 
a'afilee| 1 os alas lintiz 2s) 4(a1 ri as [ar | on | 29 ay 
(SE 1!23 ieee 3 {90 6] 18 | 20 | 27 | 28 | 27 
1] 6/20/27} 20] a0 27] afi) stisiez] 2/20 5] 12/10] 26} 27 | 28, 
a1] 8] 19 | 20 | 23 | 20 26 | at ol eer ae 2 113e 441i 18 | O% | ot 2h. 
fice ellis al, aloo! site 18 26] 30! &@ @ 16 eal 2! a! 
( I rr i | 


p.318, 


314 acsinont, 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


ON THE FEASTS OF THE ANCIENT MAGIANG AND ON THE PAST AND 
FEAST DAYS OF THE SABIANS. 


THE ancient Magians existed already before the timo of Zoroaster, but 
now there is no pure, unmixed portion of them who do not practise the 
religion of Zoroaster. In fact, they belong now eithor to the Zoroastrians 
or to the Shemsiyya scct (sun-worshippers). Still, they have some 
ancient traditions and institutes, which they trace back to their original 
creed; but in reality those things have heen derived from the laws of 
the sun.worshippers and the ancient people of Harrap. 

As regarde the Sabians, we have already explained that this namo 
applies to the real Sabians, ic. to the remnants of the captive Jews in 
Babylonia, whom Nebuladnezar had transferred from Jerusalem to that 
country. After having freely moved about in Babylonia, and having 
acclimatized themselves to the country, they found it inconvenient to 
return to Syria; therefore they preferred to stay in Babylonia. Their 
religion wanted a certain solid foundation, in consequence of which they 
listened to the doctrines of the Magiane, and inclined towards some of 
them. So their religion became amixture of Magian and Jewish elements 
like that of the so-called Samaritans whu were transferred from 
Babylonia to Syria. 

The greatest part of this sect is living in Sawid-al-Irak. These are 
the real Sabians. They live, however, very much scattered and nowhere 
in places that belong exclusively to them alone. Besides, they do not 
agree among themselves on any subject, wanting a solid ground upon 
which to base their religion, such as a direct or indizect divine revelation 
or the like. Genealogically they trace themselves back to Enos, the son 
of Seth, the son of Adam. 

The same nate is also applied to the Harrinians, who are the remains 
of the followers of the ancient religion of the West, separated (cut off) 
from it, since the Ionian Greeks (is. the ancient Greeks, not the Pupato 
or Byzantine Greeks) adopted Christianity. Ther derive their system 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


40 


THE FEiSTS AXD PASTS OF THE MAGIANS AND gaBlans. 315 


from Aghidhtmin (Agathodemon), Hermes, Willis, Miba, Sawir. Thoy 
believe that these mon and other sages like them were prophets. This sect 
ia much more known by the namo of Sabians than the others, although 
they themselves did not adopt this name before A. H. 228 under 
Abbaside rtie, solely fur the purpose of being reckoned among those 
from whom the duties of Dhinua (yerouxia) are accepted, and towsrds 
whom the laws of Dbimmz are observed. Before that time they were 
called heathens, idolaters, and Harriniaus. 

They call tho months by the Syrian names and use them in a similar 
way lo the Jews, whom they imitate, the Jews being the more ancient 
and having a greater claim to originality. To the names of the months 
they add the word Hill (new moon), so they say Hla? Pislain Z., Hilal 
Tishrin the Laat, etc. 

Their New Year is Hilal Kiinfm tho Last, but in ¢cunting the mouths 
they begin with Hilfl Tishrin I. 

Their day begins with sunrise, whilstall others, who use lunar months, 
make it begin with sunset. 

Their lunar month begins with the second day after conjunction (new 
moon). If, now, conjunction precedes sunrise only by one minute, the 
third following day is tbe beginning of the month. But if conjunction 
cvincides with sunrise or falls only a little hiter, the second day after 
conjunction is the beginning of the month. 

When in the course of three yeara, one wouth and some days have 
summed up, they add this time as one month to their months after Hilal 
Shubit and call it Hikil Adhitr I. 

Muhammad b. ‘Abd-Al‘aziz Alhishimi has given in his Canon called 
Alkkimil a short notice of the feasts of the Sabians, simply relating the 
facts withont investigating and criticising their origin and causes. His 
report I have transferred into this chapter, adding thereto whatever 
I have learned from other sonrees. Regarding the more cxternal part of 
this feast-ealendar (i.e, the purely chronological part) I have made com- 
putations on my own account, only by way vf induction, since I have 
not the same means to investigate this subject which I had for the 
others. God helps to what is right! 


Hilal Tishrin 1. 


6. Feast of Al-Dhahbana. 

7. Beginning of the celebration of the fenst. 
Is. Feast of Fadi Mahi. 

14. Feast of Tati Fadi. 

15. Feaat of the Lots (Featum Sortium). 


Hilal Tishrin 11. 


1. The Great Boekht (i.e. Fate). 
2. Mar Sheléma. 


p.319. 


p.820, 


316 ALBiRONI. 


5. Feast of ele yl for the shaving of the head. 
9, ay ths idol of Venus, 


V7. Feast of lay (farsi). On the same day they go out of town to 
Batu. 


18, Feast of Sardg; it is the day of ths renswal of tho cresscs. 
According to ’Abf-nlfarag Alzanjini, they celebrate the Feast of Tents 
in this month, beginning with the 4th and ending on the 18th. 


= = 


A on 
7. Feast of the addressing (\kt) to yl the idol of Venus. 
10. Feast of the idols for Marsa. 10 


20. Feast of the Demons, 

21. Beginning of the first fast, which is broken on the next following 
day of conjunction (nsw-moon’s day). During this time they are not 
allowed to eat meat. At the time when they break their fast they are 
wont to practise almegiving and charitable work. 

28, Feast of tho invocation of the Demons. 

29. Feast of the Fata for the Demons. 

$0. Feast of consultation. 

According to ’Ahi-alfaraj Alzanjini they celsbrate on the 24th 
of this month the feast of the Nativity. 20 


Hilal Kango 21. 
All the invocations, fast and feast days of this month are sacred to 
the Demons. 
1. Feast of New-Year’s Day, like the calendar of the Greeks. 
4, Feast of Dair-aljaba?, and the feast of Balti, z.e. Venus, 
8. Fast of seven days: itis broken on the 15th. 
12. Invocation of yy. 


£9. They pray to the Bel of Harriu. 
25. Feaat of the idol of Tirrathi (Tir‘athi, Atergatis). 
26. Feaat of the nuptials (wedding) of the year. 30 


Hilal Shubat. 

9. Beginning of the minor fast; it lasts seven days and is broken on 
the 16th. During that time they do not taste any fat, nor anything of 
the feast-meals or what is taken from them. 

10. Feast of the House of the Bridegroom for the Suz. 

22. Feast of Ubw for the Sun. 

24. Feast of the Venerable Old Man, i.e. Saturn. 

25. Feast of the nuptials of bie, 


Hal Adhar. 
1. Fast of .st; it laste three daye, aud is broken on the 4th. 40 
7. Fesst of Hermes. Mercury. 


THE FEASTS AND FASTS OF TITE MAGIANS AND SARIANS. 317 


8, Beginning of the Great Fast, during which only meat is forbidden. 
Ite Signum is this, that they begin to lament on a day of this month, 
when the sun stands in the sign of Pisces (and the moon f—lacusa). 
They continue their lamentations until the 31st day, when the sun 
stands in the sign of Arics, and the moon in the sigu of Cancer, both 
standing in the same degree. The former day is the heginning of the 


fast, tho latteris its breaking. Frequently this fast lasts only 29 days, 
when Hilil Adhir has less than 80 days. 


10. Weaning of the children. 
10 Hilal Nisin. 
2. Feast of Damis. 
3. Feast of the Stibium. 
4, Celebration of HWaAotros. 
5. Feast of kt, tho idol of Venus. 
6. Feast of jos and of the Living Being of the Moon. On tho same 
day is the feast of Dair-kidhi. 
8. The breaking of the Great Fast falls in most cases on the 8th of 
this month. On the same day is the feast of the birth of the spirits. 
9. Feast of the Lords of the Hours. 
20 15. Feast of the mysteries of Alsinik (Spica). 


20, Feast of the assembly at Dair-Kidhf. 
23, Feast of Dair-Sini. 


1 yyar. 
2. Feast of Salighi, prince of the Satans. 
8. Feast of s Baghdiidian houso. 
4, Feast of the vows. 
3. Feast of giant}, or feast of baptism, 
7. Feast of Dabdik, the idol of the Moon. 
11, Feast of Dakdik and base. 
80 = 12. Feast of lay. 
18. Feast of Barkhishyi. 
15. Feast of Barkhnrishyi. 
17. Feast of Bib-altibn (the straw-gate). 
20. Feast of perfeetion for Dahdik, a blind idol. On the same day 


the feast of Tera‘iz. 
Hilal Hazivan. 


7. Commemoration of Tammiza with lamentation and weeping. 
24. Feast of Alkurmiis or feast of genuflection. 
27. Feast of the bntcher’s house. 


40 8 z. 
15. Feast of the yonths. 
1?. Feast of the nuptials of the elements. 


p.821. 


818 acBieéyt, 


18. Feast of the olemonts. 
19, Also feast of the elements. 


Hilal Ab. 


3. Feast of Dailafatéin, the idol of Venus. 
7. Aloo feast of Dailafatin. 
24. Peast of bathing in the Thermee of Sertiy. 
26. Another feast. 
28, Feast of Kepharmisa. 
30. End of tho feast of bathing in the Therma ef Seriig. 


itll Da 10 


13. Feast of the Column of our Houses for the women, the end of a 
fasting. 

14. Pasting of Wo. 

2%, Feast of tha Lords of tho coming forth of the New Moons. 

25. Feast of the candle on tho hill of Harriin. 


In each of these months thero is a fast of certain days which is obii- 
gatory for their priests. I think, either it lasts 14 days of each month, 
or it falls on the 24th. I cannot make out the truth. 

Ono of thoss who record their doctrines says, that on the 17th of 
each month they celebrate a feast, the reason of which is the beginning 20 
of the deluge on the 17th of the month [lacuza) ; further, that the days 
of the equinoxes and solstices aro festivals with them, and that the 
winter-solstice is the beginning of their year. 

p-322. This is all that Alhashimi and others have related. Wo have collected 
these materials as we found them, simply transcribing the names as 
they were written. When we shall be in a position to hear these things 
from the people themselves (the Harrinians), and to distinguish between 
what is peculiar to the Sabians, the Hartinians, and the ancient Magians, 
we shall follow in this chapter the samc method which we have followed 
elsewhere, if God permits! 30 

(The author tries to form his information regarding the 
Harranian calendar into a system.)-—Because their great fasting 
falls inte the first phase (quadrature) of Hilal Adhar, whilst sun 
and moon stand in two dozble-boidied signs (Pisces and Gemini ?), 
and because the end of the fasting falls into the first phase of Hilal 
Nisin, whilst sun and moon stand in certain two tuclining signs 
{Aries and Cancer), their months must of necessity yvevolve in the 
solar year in a similar way to tho Jewish months, that is to say; on 
an average. And between the causes of each of these tro things 
thera is a ernnection. For the Jewish Passover demands that sun 40 
and moon should stand in the first oppcsition in two signs of the 
equinoxes—for they may stand in opposition, and not only once, but 


10 


20 


30 


THE FEASTS AND FASTS UF THE MAGIANS AND SABIAXS, 319 


twico—end the Harrénian fast-breaking demands that which we have 
mentioned (in Hila! Adhar). Heuce follows that the phass (quadrature) 
next preceding tho Jewish Passover is tho fast-breaking ef the Harri- 
nians, and thai the conjunction which falls next te the autumnal equinox 
is tho heginning of their year, never falling heyond Tlhl. 

If ws compute these slaments for a cycle of 19 years, we get a rough 
sort of computation, but only a rough one, for they themselves try to 
correct it by means of the time of the conjunction, as we have men- 
tioned. 

The methods of heth Jews ond Christians for the computation cf 
Passover are based upon such motiens of the Jnminaries, of which we 
have found out that they remain back behind veal time, especially as 
regards the sun (the precession of the equinoxes having been neglected), 
Tf we examine the oppositious according to the motions that have been 
found by recent observations, we find that some of them precede the 
Easter-limit according te both Jewish and Christian systems; they, how- 
ever, disregard this precession, whilst it is really thecase,and we find 
that others of them (the oppositions) fall near the snd of the Easter. 
timit; thess latter oppositions they adopt and rely upon them, whilst 
they are utterly wrong; for the real timo (or opposition) precedes that 
time already by oue month. 

Now, since it has been our object hitherto to point out scientific 
truth, to mediate between the two parties (Jews and Christians), and to 
adjust their differences, ve have put forward the methods of each of the 
two sects according to their own theory as well as that of others, so as 
to show to each of them the pre and the contra of the case. And from 
eur side we have proved that we candidly adopt their tradition and 
Wan upon their theory, in order to make the truth clear to them. In 
all of which we are guided by the wish that both parties should dis- 
miss from their minds the suspicion that we are partial to any side er 
try to mystify them ; that their minds should not shrink back from our 
opposition, when we pass in review the (chronological) canons which 
they produce. For if they are left such as they are, they are not free 


_from confusion and mistakes, most of which we have already pointed 


out. 

Now we shallassume as the carliest date of the Terminus Paschatis the 
16th of Adhar; we shall let tha day of opposition in reality fall into 
the two signs of the equinoxes; upon this basis we shall arrange the 
Passovers of the cycle that none of them precedes this terminus, and 
that each of them falls so that sun and moon stand in opposition to 
each other in the manner prescribed; the end of the terminus is to 
be the 13th Nisin, and within this space the sun must once have stood 
in opposition to the moon, although the sun may also after this 
terminus still stand in Aries without standing iu opposition to the 
moon. 


p.323 


peed. 


820 aintrtnt. 


From theee corrected Passovere we shall then derive the faat-breaking 
of the Sabians, and thence the beginning of the yerr, 7.e. the conjunc- 
tion in Hilal Tiehrin I. 

All thia we have done and arranged in a table. Now if you take the 
years of the Ara Alevandri—tho vurrent year included—for the begin- 
ning of Tisbrin I, whioh followe after the conjunction of their New Year, 
and add thereto 16 or subtract therefrom 3; if you divide the sum by 
19, if you neglect the quotient and compare the remainder with the 
column of the numbers in the Zable of the Corrected Cycles, you find 
opposite their New Year, the end of their Great Fasting, the corrected 
Passovor, and, hence derived, the mean fasting of the Christians, all 
fixed on the corresponding daye of the Syrian months. 

Here follows the Table of the Corrected Cycle. 


TapLe or THE CoRRkeTRD CroLE. 


Tne month inwhich the lst 


PeOVyaonn orem | Colamn of the Numbers. 


| Bhnbét 


10 


10 


20 


30 


321 


CHAPTER XIX. 


ON THE FESTIVALS OF THE ARABS IN THE TIME OF HEATHENDOM. 


We have already mentioned that the Arabs had 12 months, that they 
used to iutercalate them so as to make them revolve with the solar year 
in ons and the same order, that the siznifications of the names of the 
months seem to indicate the reasons why they agreed among each 
other regarding this order, some of them indicating the corresponding 
tines of the year, others indicating what the people did during them. 
We have already given the theory of some etymologists and historians 
of the Arabs regarding them; we shall now add another theory. 

Al-Muharram, so called because four of their mouths were Hurum, 
i.e. sacred ones, one a separate one, i.c. Rajah, and three consecutive ones, 
te. Dhft-alka‘da, Dhi-albijja and Almuharram, during which fighting 
was forbidden. 

Safar, so called on account of a contagious disease that used to hefall 
them, when they became ill and their colour became yellow. 

Rab* Primus et Postremus ; they fell into the season of autumn, which 
the ancient Arabs called Rabi. 

Jumdddé Prima et Postrema, the time when thse cold mornings, rime 
and hoar frost appeared, and when ‘the water hegan to freeze,—the 
season of winter. 

Rajab, so called because then people said irjabt, ve. abstain from 
fighting and warlike expeditions, because it was a. sacred month. Accord- 
ing to others, so called because people immediately before it made hasta, 
being afraid of it; for you say rajibtuht, i.e. I was afraid of hin. 

Sha'ban, 30 called because then people dispersed to their camps and 
went out in search of booty. 

Ramodén, the time when the hsat commenced and ths soil was 
burning hot. This month waa held in high veneration in heathendom 

Shawwil, so called because then people said shawwili, i.e. break up; 
according to another view: because about that time the she-camels throw 
wbout their tails, wanting to be eovered. Therefore the Arabs did not 
like to marry their children in this mouth. - 


p 325. 


P.-326. 


322 ALBiRONY. 


Ditit-alka‘da, hecauso then people said, sit down and abstain irom fighting. 

Dhi-aliijja, 60 called because in this month they used to hold their 
pilgrimages. 

(The eeasons with different nations.)—Their months were dis- 
tributed over the four seasons, beginning with autumn, which they 
called Radi; then winter; then spring, called Saif, or by others Rabi 
Socundus; then summer, called Kaiz. This nomenclature, however, 
has altogether been dropped and forgotten. Of the way in which 
they divided the ses:»ns, we know only so much that the heginning 
of Radi or autumn fell on the Srd Tlél, the beginning of winter on 
tho 8rd Kaénin L, the beginning of Saif or spring on the 5th Adhar, 
and the beginning of Kaiz or summer on the 4th Hasfrin. This 
you learn by the way in which they distribute the risings and 
settings of the lunar stations over the seasons. 

Regarding the beginnizgs of these four seasons there has been a con- 
troversy. Ptolemy says, in his Introduction to the Spherical Art, that 
the ancient Grecks fixed their beginnings on the moments when the sun 
enters the equinoctial and solstitial points, whilst the Chaldeans are 
said to have commenced ths scasons 8 degrees after the equinoxee and 
solstices. The reason of this is, as it seems to me, that the computations 
in the Chaldean canons are back hehind the computations to which the 
observations and canons of the ancicnt Greeks have led, and that just 
8 degrees were assumed as the measure of this differenve because they 
for. nduch a difference in the progressive and retrograde motion of the 
sphere, the greatest extent of which is 8 degrees. But God knows best 
what they meant! The explanation of this motion you find in the Zi- 
alsafa'1p of Abi-Ja‘far Alkhazin, and in the Book of the Motions of the Sun 
by Ibrahim h. Sinan, the hest and most appropriate explanation possible. 

The Byzantine Greeks and Syrians fixed the beginnings of the seasons 
earlier, onc half sign (i.e. 15 degrees) before the equinoctial and solstitial 
pointe. In consequince, their seasons commence when the sun enters 
the middle of the signs that lie before the year-points. Therefore these 
signs were called the corporeal ones (Gemini, Virgo, Arcitenens, Pisces). 

Sinin hen Thabit relates two theories on this subject on the authority 
of the Egyptians and of Hipparchns, hoth nearly to this effect, that 
they fix the beginnings of the seagons one whole sign before the four 
year-points. The radicals among physical scholars make them precede 
the year-points by one sign and a half,and those of them who more 
than all deviate from the truth fiz them on the times when the sup 
stands towards the equator at the half of his total inclination (15° Am. 
phora, 18° Taurus, 15° Leo, 15° Scorpio). Such a division stands in 
direct opposition to common usage of mankind, and is in no way to he 
harmonized with the significations of the names of the seasons. 

These theories in all their varieties are represented in the following 
table. 


10 


20 


30 


40 


82° 


p. 327. TasLé oF THE SEASONS ACCORDING TO THE DIFFERENT THEORIES. 


The Byzan- The extreme 


tine Greeke, | Tho ancient The Arabs The Egyp- Hipparchus natural Tho natural 
Pilot at | tee Syrions, Greeks The Chtgnn aceording ae seals és aneoeding piineophend Pilloplers whe 
theories. a the according to Ptolemy. | » to the Singo b. to Sindn b. who Boer 
jority of | to Ptolemy. ; Anwa-books, Thabit. Thabit. deviate from leviate from 
| Astronomere. reality. renlity. 
aa a 0 ee oe 7 = = Sy wae ly ae . 
3 # FA F 3 é 3 ' | g 
|g fe} ¢ l2) 2 jf] 2 72 2 lg} @ del 2 lg) 2 7 g 
1s j2| 8 [2] £ {a} 2 [#1 2 (a| 2 la] 2 {a | aia; 2 
; | | i ~ | 
t 
1 Spring | 1 | Adhar |15| Adbar A & _Adhir | 7| Shubit ee Shubat 1 | Shubat 15} Kinin IL. ; ' 
! t ! . ; 
Summer| I | Haztriin | 16 Hasirin | 24 Haatrin| 4 | Hazirin|10/ Ayyir 12) Ayyar 1 Ayyir ee ' 
| | 
< P I. ( 
‘Autumn | 1 | fal 17| al ls tal 3 | fia 15} Ab all Ab 1:Ab 17 Tammiz | 
| 
, i 
", | Winter , 1 | Kaindn | 15 | Kanto T) 23 Kanan 1] 3 Kinin 4 11 | Tishrin 01.) 11 Tisbrin 1) 1 Tishrin 11.) 17 Tishrin I. | 
| | 
Fj | 
| | ; 
1 1 1 l 


NGHLVYTH GZHL dO SIVANISHA AHL 


“Savay 


rts 


p38 28. 


824 aLaizoni. 
(On tho fairs of the ancient Arabs.)—The Arabs used to hold fairs 


in certain places and on certain datea of their monthe which were inter. 
calated so as to agreo with the selar year. Some of them have heen 
mentioned by Abi-Jatfar Muhammad hen Hahib Albaghdadi in tho 
Kita. Alnaujir. He eaya: 

The fair of Dimat-aljandal was held from the Ist of Rabi L. till the 
middle of the month. There a bargain was concluded by the throwing 
of a atone, viz. if people gathered round an article of merchandise, he 
who liked to have it threw a stone. Now, frequently several people 
gathered around the came article, then the owner had to sell it to that 
man who threw the stone. 

The fair of Almuehakkar commenced on tha Ist of Jumadai IL There 
the touching was the mode of bargaining, viz. only to hint and to whisper, 
which they did for fear of ewearing and lying. 

The fair of Suhar, from the 10th till 15th of Rajab. 

The fair of Daha, on the last of Rajab. There the mode of bargaining 
was Almzsdwame. (i.e. chaffering). 

Tho fair of Al-shihr, in the middle of Sha‘bin. There the mode of 
hargaining waa the throwing of a atone. 

The fair of ‘Adan, from the 1st till 10th of Ramadan. 

Tle fair of San‘a, from the middle of Ramadan till the end. 

The faire of Alribiya in Hadramaut, and of ‘Ukas in the highest part 
of Alnajd, not far from ‘Arafat, fell on the same day, viz. the middle of 
Dht-alka‘da, Tho fair of ‘ Ukiz was one of the most important, heing 
frequented hy the tribes Kuraish, Hawizin, Ghatafan, ’Aslam, ‘Uhail, 
Almustalik, the 'Abahieh, and hy a motley crowd of other people. The 
fair wae held from the middle of Dhi-alka‘da till the end. As soon as 
the now moon of Dhi-a)hijja was vbserved, people went to Dht-almajaz, 
a place in the neighhourhood of ‘Ukiz. Then they held there a fair 
until the day of Altarwiya (the 8th of Dhi-alhijja), Then they went up 
to Mini. 

The fair of Naté in Khaibar and that of Hajr in Alyamfma were held 
from the 1st till the 10th of Almuharram. Since God has sent Islim, 
moet of these customs have heen abandoned. 


10 


20 


80 


10 


20 


80 


325 


CHAPTER XX. 


ON THE FESTIVALS OF THE MUSLIN. 


Musuinis use the mouths vf the Arabs without any intercalation, for a 
reason which we have heretofore meutiuned. They declared the four 
sacred wonths a8 sacro-sanct in consequence of the divine word (Sira 
jx. 36): “Four of them are sacred ones (such is the right law). 
Therefore you shal) not wrong yourselves in them.” 

The months Shawwal, Dhi-alka‘da, and the first ten days of Dht- 
alhijjathey call the Months of Pilgrimage, of which God says (Sara ii. 
193): “ Pilgrimage lasta for certain months, Therefore those on whom 
He has imposed the duty of pilgrimage shall not speak indecently, nor 
commit any wrong, nor quarrel during pilgrimage.” ‘Ihey were called 
the Months of Pilgrimage because before thia time the pilgrim is uot 
allowed tu enter the holy precincts. There are controversies regarding 
them between the lawyers of the four orthodox law-schools; they belong, 
however, to the science of law, and would awell this book too much if 
we were to propound them. These (two and one-third) months ars 
named with the Pluratis Paucifetis (uot dual), because the fraction, te. 
the third of a month, is added to the other months as one complete 
month. 

The Monthe of the freaty, which God describes in the following words 
(Stra ix. 2): * Therefore ye shall go about on earth duriug four mouths,” 
are the time from the Day of Sacrifice (the 10th of Dhii-Alhijja) till the 
10th of Rabi IL, for the Prince of the Believers (‘Ali) recited this Siva 
to the people (as a messenger of the Prophet) on the Dies mastationis (i.e. 
the 10th of Dhi-Albijja) on the fair. 

The Arabs celebrate the following days of their calendar. 


Aluuukarram. 


The 1st is celebrated because it is the beginning and opening of the 
year. 


p-329, 


826 aLnirOn?. 


Tha Sth is called Teaid, & word like ‘Ashivé. It is a day ov which 
the dsvotees of the Shi'a say prayers. 

The 10th is called ‘Askérd, a most distinguished day. Ths Prophet ia 
reported ta have said: “O ye men, hasten to do good works on this day, 
for it is 9 grand and blessed day, on which God had mercy on Adam.” 

Peopla cetcbrated this day until tho murder of Alhusain b, ‘Ali b. 
*Ahi-Tilib occurred on it, when he and his adherents were treated in 
such a way as never in the whole world the worst criminals have been 
treated. They were killed by hunger and thirst, through the sword; 
they wer burned and their heads roasted, and horses were made to 
trample ovar their bodies. Therefora people cams to consider this day 
ag an unlucky one. 

On the contrary, the Bana "Umayya dressed themselves on this day in 
uew garments, with variv..8 kinds of ornaments, and painted their eyes 
with slibium; they celebrated e feast,and gave banquets and parties, eating 
aweetmeats ond various kinds of canfiseries, 

Such waa the custom in the nation during the rule of the Bani 
*Umayya, and so it has remained also efter the downfall of this dynasty. 

The Shi‘a people, however, lament and weep on this day, mourning 
over the protamartyr (Alhusain) in public, aa, eg. im Baghdad and in 
other cities and villages; and they make a pilgrimage to the blessed soil 
(the tomb of Albusain) im Karbala. As this is a mourning-dsy, their 
commen people have en aversion to renewing the vessels and utensils of 
the household on this day. 

When the news of the murder of Alhusain reached Medina, the 
daughter of ‘Akil b, Abi-Talib came forward and said : 


“ What will you ssy, if ouce the Prophet speaks to you: 
* What have you done, you, the last of all nations, 
With my next relations and wy family, if I inquire for themr’ 
One half of them ate prisoners and one half tinged with blood. 
It was not the proper reward for the advice I gave you, 
That you, in playing the part of my successors, should bring woe 
over those who had sprung from my loins.” 


On ths same day Ibrahim b. Alashtar, the helper of the Prophet's 
family, was killed. 

Peopls ssy that on this dey God took compassion on Adam, thst the 
srk of Noah stood still on the mountain Aljidi, that Jesus was born, 
that Moses was saved (from Pharao), and Abraham (from the firs of 
Nebukadnezar), that the fire around bim (which was to burn him) 
became cold. Further, on this dsy Jacob regained his eye-sight, Joseph 
was drawn out of the ditch, Solomod was invested with the royal power, 
the punishment was taken away from the people of Jona, Hiob was freed 


from his plague, the prayer of Zacharias was granted and Jobn was 
given to him. 


10 


4 


20 


30 


THE FESTIVALS OF HE MUSLIMS. 827 


People imaintain that the Dies ornafionis, which is the tims for the p.330, 
rendezvous of the sorcerers of Pharao, is this day ‘Ashira, especially 
the time after noon. 

Although it be possible that all these eveuts should have oceurred on 
this day, we must state that all this rests ooly on the authority of popular 
story-tellers, who do not draw upou Icarned sonrevs ner upon tho 
agreement between the owners of « divine writ (i.e. Jews and Christians). 

Some people say that ‘Ashird is an Arabized Hebrew word, viz. 
‘Ashity, i.e. the 10th of the Jewish month Tishri, in which falls the fasting 

10 Kippir; that the date of this fasting was compared with the months of 
the Arabs, and that it was fixed on the 10th day of their fret month, as 
it with the Jews falls on the 10th of their first month. 

The Prophet gave ordersto fast on this day in the first } err of the Hijra, 
but afterwards this law was abrogated by the other law, to fast during 
ths month of Ramadiin, which falls later in the year. Peopls relats 
that the Prophet of God on arriving in Medina saw the Jews fasting 
‘Ashira. On inquiring of them, he was told that this was the day on 
which God had drownacd Pharao and his people and had saved Moses 
and the Israclites. Then the Prophet said: “ We have a nearer claim to 

20 Moscs than they.” In consequence he fasted on that day and ordered 
his followers to do the same. Bunt when he afterwards issued the law 
regarding the fasting of amadin, he no longer ordered them to fast 
on ‘Ashiva, but neither did he furbid them. 

This tradition, however, is not correct, sinco scicutitic examination 
proves against it, For the 1st of Muharram in the year of the Hijra 
was @ Friday, the 16th Tammiz, A. Alexandri 933. But if we compute 
the Jewish New-Year's Day for the same yer, it was a Sunday, the 12th 
of Elui, corresponding to the 2vth of Safar. Therefore the fasting 
‘Ashtra fell on Tuesday, the Sth of Rabit L, and the flight of the 

80 Prophet occurred in the first half of Rabi‘ I. 

When the Prophet was asked regarding the fasting of Monday, hs 
said: “Qn this day I waa born, I received wy prophetical mission and 
divine revelation, and on this day I fied.” 

Further, it is a question on thick Monday ths flight occurred. Ae- 
cording to some, it was the 2nd of Rabi L., according to others the 8th, 
according to others the 12th of Rabit I. However, according to the 
generally-adoptcd view, it was the 8th of Rabit 1. Both thu 2nd oud 
the 12th are excluded, since they were not Mondays, hecause the lst of 
Rabt* I. of this year was a Monday (in consequence the 2nd was a 

40 Tuesday and the 12th a Friday). Now, for this reason the arrival of 
the Prophet in Medina (on Monday, the 8th of Rabi* L) falls ons day 
before the Jewish ‘AshOrA fon Tuesday, the 9th of Rabi‘ I.), and ‘Ashfra 
did not fall in Muharram, except at the time 3-10 years before the year of 
the flight, or 20-30 yenrs after tho year of the flight. 

Therefore you could not maiutain that the Prophet fasted ‘AshtirA on 


p.381. 


328 aLsinont. 


account of its coinciding with the 10th in this year, unless you transfer 
‘Ashiré from the first of tho Jewish monthe to the first of the Arbian 
months, 90 as to make them fall together. (In the first year of tho flight 
the 1st of Muharrom was a2 Friday, and therefore the 10th or ‘Ashura, 
Monday). Also in ths second year of the flight the Jewish ‘Ashird and 
tho date of Muhammad’s arrival in Medina cannot have coincided. 

The assertion of the Jews that on this day God drowned Pharao is 
refuted by the Thora itself. For this took place on the 21st of Ntsin, 
the ssventh of the days of unleavened bread. Now, the beginning 
of ths Jowieh Passover after the ayrival of the Prophet in Medina was a 
Tussday, ths 22nd Adhér, A. Alsx. 983, coinciding with the 17th Ramadin, 
and tho day on which God drowied Pharao was ths 28rd Ramadan. 
Thorofore this tradition is altogether unfounded. 

Tho 16th, Jorusalsm was made tho Kibla of tho Muslims. 

The 1?th, the Companions of the Elephants (Ethiopians from the south 
of Arabia) arrived bofore Mekka. 


Sofar. 


1. Tho head of Alhusain was brought to Damnscus. Then ho (Yazld 
b. Mu‘iwiya) placed it before himself, and with a stick in his hand he 
struck out the fore-teeth (the central four incisors), reciting these verses: 


“Tam not a descendant of Khindif, if I do not revenge 

On ths sons of Ahmad what ho has done. 

O that my chisftains in the battle of Badr had witnesaod 

The pein of Khazraj, caused hy tho hitting of the spears. 

They would have praised God, and thoir faces would have beamed 
with joy, 

And then thoy would say: ‘QO Yazid, do not ask for anything 
more! 

We have killed the generation of their chieftains ; 

Wo have tried to take vengeance on him for Badr, and we have 
got it." 


Gn this day the Imkm Zaid b. ‘Ali wae killed and crucified on the 
border of the Euphrates; then his body was hurned, and the ashes 
thrown into the water. 

16. First appearance of tho ness in the P .phet. This was the 
illness in which he died. 

20. The head of Albusain was again laid to the body, and both 
wero buried together. 

On this day the pilgrimage of the forty men occurred, when they 
entered the holy district after their return from Syria. 

23. Alma'min b. Alrashid (the Abbaside Khalif) geve up again 
the green dress, after he had dressed in it during five aud a haJf months. 


20 


30 


a 


THE FESTIVALS OF THE MUSLIMS, 329 


He agaiv adupted the black colours, the colours of the Abbaside party, 
after they had become exeited against him. 

_ 24, Muhammad left Mekka and concealed himself in a eave together 
with Abii-Bakr. 


Rabi J. 


1, Death of the Prophet. 
8. The Prophet arrives in Medina ou the flight. 
12. The Prophet is born ona Monday in the Year of the Elephants. 


Rabi IY, 


10 3. The Ka‘ba was burned at the timo when Albajjaj besieged ‘Ahd- 
allah h. Zubair. 
15. Birth of ‘Ali b. Abl-Palib. 


Jumdde F. 


3. Tbe Battle of the Camel in Bagra with ‘A’isha, Talha,wnd Alzubair. 
8. The death of the virgin Fatinu, the Prophet's daughter. 


Jumedi EE. 


2. Death of Abd-Bakr. 
4, Fatima was born of Khadiju bint Khuwailid. 


Rajub. 


234. ‘Alf und Mu‘fwiya mect at Siffin. 
26. God made Muhammad His Prophet to all maukiud. 
27. Night of Aecension and the night-journey to Jerusalem. 


Sha'biu. 


3. Birth of Albueain b. ‘Alt, 

15, The great Liberation-night, also ealled Lailat-alsakk. 

15. The Ka‘ba was made the Kibla instead of Jerusalem. The 
Harrinians turn in praying towards the south pole, the Sabians towards 
the north pole. I believe that the Manichzans, too, turn towards the 
north pele, becanee this is, according to them, the middle of the dome of 

30 heaven and its highest place. I find, however, that the anthor of the 
Book on Marriage, whe is a Manichean and one of their missionaries, 
reprowhes the peuple of the theee religions with turning to one direction 
to the exclusion of anuther. With this he reproaches them, besides other 
things, and he seems tu indicate that # man whe prays tv God dues not 
need any Kihja at all. 


382, 


nh 


380 aLpinodnt. 


Ramadan, 
tha month of the obligatory fasting. 

6, Birth of Alhusain b. ‘Ali uccording to all authorities except 
Alealamf. 

7, Alma’min adopted the green colonrs. 

10. Beath of Khadija. 

17, The cursed ‘Abd-alrahmia b. Muljim Almuridi struck ‘Ali b. Abi- 
Talih on the head so as to injure the brain. 

On tho moming of the 17th the battle of Badr oveurred ; recording ta 
another report, it oceurred on the 19th. But this is nut correct, because 
there is au uninterrupted tradition saying that it uccurred on a Monday 
in the eccond year of the flight. If we compnte tho lst of Ramadan for 
thie year, wo find that it was a Saturday, and the Monday in question 
falle upon the 17th. 

19. Mekka was conquered. The Prophet did not perform the 
pilgrimage, because the Arabian months were back Lehiad real timo in 
coneaquenco of the Vaai’ (postponement of certain moothe in the times of 
heathendom). Therefore he waited tillthe months returucd to their proper 
places, and then he performed the farewell-pilgrimage, and forbade to 
use the Nasi’. 

21, Death of the Prince of the Believers, ‘Ali b. Abi-Talih ; also death 
of ‘Ali-Alri@a Ibo Mast Alkizim b. Ja‘far Alsidis b. Muhammad 
Albikir b, ‘All Alsajjad Zain-al‘iibidin b. Allusain, the protonartyr, son 
of tho Princo of tho Belicvers ‘Ali b. Abi-Talib. According to others, 
hie death (that of ‘Ali-Alrida) occurred on the 23rd Dhi-Alke'da. 

22. Birth of ‘Ali b, Abi-Tilib, according to Alsalimi. 

25. ’Abd.Muslim ‘Abd-alrabmin b. Muslim first raised the standard 
of the ‘Abbasides in Khurisin. 

26. Revolt of Alburku'i in Bagra; according to some, he was ‘Ali b. 
Muhammad b. Ahmad b. ‘Isa b. Zaid b. ‘Ali b. Albusain b ‘Ali b. Abi- 
Talib; according to others, he was ‘Ali b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd-alrahim 
b. ‘Abd-alkais. There is a report saying that Albasan bh. Zaid, the 
Prince of Taburistaén, wrote to him at the time when he came furward iu 
Baera, asking for his genealogy, in order to ‘earn the truth of the 
matter, whereupon he received this answer: “Do you mind my business 
as much a8 J mind yours (i.e. as little). My complimente.” A wonderfully 
short and cutting anewer, very much like that which Wali-aldaula ’Abi- 
‘Ahmad Khalaf b. Ahmad, the Prince of Sijistan, gave, when Nah b. 
Mansiir, the Prince of Khurasan, had written to him threatening hii 
with various things. He answered: “O Nb, yon have quarrelled with us 
@ great deal. Now carry out that with which you threaten us,if you 
ara a true-speaking man.” Cmice 

27. The night of this day is called Lailat-alkadér (Night of Pate), of 
which God saye (Sira xevii. 3) that it ia better than a, thousand months. 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


30 


" 


_ 


THE FESTIVALS OF THE MUSLIMS. 331 


The date of this night rests on universal agreement, because its real 
date isnot known. People say: “Sce, this night is the night of tho 
With or the 14th, for £ was between these two nights that the battle 
of Badr oecnrred, the conquest of Mekka, the descending of the mgels 
as a help, marked with certain badges (Stra iii, 121).’ This may be 
correct, for God says (Sia xcvii. #4): “The angels descend and the 
Spirit. There is freedom from everything in that night by the permission 
of their Lord.” 

People say that on the followings days the holy books wero communicated 
to the Praphet— 


ou the Ist of Ramudin, the leaves tu Abraham, 
the 6th the Thura to Moses, 
the 12th the Psalms to David, 
thy 18th the Guspel to Jesus, aud 
the 24th the Furkdn to Muhaminad. 


As regards the Coran, God says (Siira ii, 181): “The month of 
Ramadan in which the Coran was sent down.” Thereby we learn that it 
was revealed in this month. Some peuple quote besides the passage 
(Sara viii. 42); “And that which we have sent down upon our servaut 
on the day of the decision (Alfurkin), on thy day when the two hosts 
met,” inferring from this passage that the Cora was revealed on the 
17th of Ramadiin, hecause on this day the two hosts (that of Muhammad 
and his opponents) met at Badr. But God knuws best! 

Regarding the Thora, we have already mentioned that it was revealed 
on the 6th of Siwan, on the feust of congreyation (‘Azereth), If, at that 
time, Ramadiin coincided with Siwan, the matter is so us has ten said. 
But there is n0 possibility of settling this question, Weeause the year in 
whieh the Thora was revealed is uot known ; if it were known, we should 
inquire into ths subject by chronological computations. The report 
regarding the Gospel is the saying of 1 man who does not know its 
character, nor arrangement, nor composition, and the revelation of the 
ether hooks is altogether unknown and eannot be tound out. God 
Imnows hest! 


Shawwil. 


1. Feast of fast-breaking, also called the day of mercy. God aclected 
Gabric! as the bearer of His revelatiev. He inspired the bees and taught 
them how to make honey (Sara xvi. 70). 

People maiotain that on this day Gol created Paradise. But why 
do they meulivu in their report such v thing witl ull that it way be 
supposed to indicate and that may le inferred therefrom? They go 
even so far as to attribute to Him an ugly anthropemorphism—as te say 
that on this day He planted the tree Tiha with His own hand. And this 


p.838. 


p.334. 


982 aLnirdn}, 


they have net tried to explain in auy way; on the contrary, they believe 
it juat 2a it standa, from sheer ignorance, 

2. Beginning of a voluntary fasting of six consecutive days. 

4. Muhsuumad and the Christisus of Nojrin argued with each other, 
Muhammad installed Hasan and Husain in tho right of sons of his, and 
Fatima in tho right ef his wives, and ‘Ali b. ’Abi.Talib he made hia 
intimate friend, complying with the order of God in the veres of the 
cursing. 

17. Battle of "Uhud; according to others, it occurred in the middle of 


tha month. In this battle Hamza was killed, and Muhammad lamented 
over his loss. 


19. Death of Abd-Talib. 
28, On this day, they say, Yonaa was devoured by the fish. 


Dhit.Alka‘da. 


5. The Katha was sent down. God took compassion on Adam. 
Abmbham and Ishmael raised the bases of the tomple of Mekka. 

14. Jonss, they sy, came forth from the belly of the fish. Acconding 
to this view he must have atayed there twenty-two days, whilst according 
to the Christians he stayed only three days, ws is mentioned in the 
Goapel. 


29. On this day, they say, the treo Yasin grew over Yonas, 


Dhit-Athigja. 


1. Tho Prophet of God married his daughter Fatima to his cousin, 
‘Alt b. Abt-Talib. The first 10 days of this month are also called Dies 
noti and Dies sacri. According to some, they are the time by which God 
completed the time which He had promiacd to Mosca, saying (Stra. vii. 
188): “ And we have promised Moses thirty nighte—which are the 
nightsof Dhd-alka'da—aud we bave completed their number by ten ”"— 
which are the Dies sacri. 

8. This day is called Aliarwiye, hecause the pilgrim’s-well in the holy 
mosque of Mekka used to be full of water about this season in the time 
of both heathendom aud Islim, and the pilgrims drank from it so much 
as fo quench their thiret. Accerding to auether view, it was called se 
because they used to carry the water from Mekka on Rowdyé, tc. camels 
which are used to draw water from a well. According to a third opinien, 
bscause God made spring forth for Ishmael the well Zzinzam, from which 
he drank so much as to quench his thirst. According to e fourth 
opinion, because enthis day God revealed Himself to the mountain, as 
hes been mentioned in the history of Moses. 

@. This day is called ‘drafa, the day of the great pilgrimage on 
‘Arafat, It is eo called hecauss on that day people recognisa each other 
at the time when they assemble for the performance of the rites of 


10 


80 


40 


10 


20 


80 


40 


THE FESTIVALS OF THE MUSLIMS. 333 


pilgrimage, or, because Adam and Eve recognised each other after they 
had been driven out of Paradise in the place where people assembled, 
te. in Llosa. 

On this day God selected Abraham as a friend (Khalid). It is also 
called the day of forgiving. 

10. It is called the day of the victims, also Dies mactationia, because on 
this day the animals, that had been brought to Mckka to be sacrificed, 
were slaughtered. It is the ist day of the dara of thepilgrimage. On 
this day Isaak was ransomed with the rum. On this day, too, fhe Road 
(via strata) to the Last Judyment is said to have heen created. 

Ll. The day of sojourning, beeause on this day people sojourn in 
Mini. 

12. The day of going away, because on this day people go away from 
the holy district hurrying, 

VM, 12, 18. The days of Tashrik, 80 called because on these days the 
Meat of the sacrificed animals was cut to pivers and exposed to the sun 
for drying. The name is also derived from the saying, “ *Ashrit thabir 
kaimié nughir” (i.e. Shine forth, OQ mountain Thabir, that we may break 
up). According to Ibn-Al‘a‘rabi they were so called because the victims 
(hostie) wero not killed before the sun had risen. 

These are the days which God means in His words (Sira ii, 199) : 
“(And ye shall remember God on certain counted days.” 

In the time immediately hefore and after these days pyople say Alhih 
stkber alter emary prayer. Among the theologians there.are. differences 
regarding the beginning, the end, and the limits of the prayer of Takbir 
(ie. Allih akbar), differences peculiar to their science. 

17. ‘UWthman b. ‘Affin the Khalif was killed. 

18. Tt is catled Ghadit Kkumm, which was the name of a station on 
the road-side where Muhammad alighted when returning from the fare- 
well pilgrimage. He gave orders to collect the saddles and all the riding- 
instruments into one heap; this he ascended, supported by the arm of 
‘Ali b. *Abf-Talib, and said: “O men, am I not nearer to you than you 
yourselves?” They answered, “ Yes.” Then he said: “To every man 
whose fricnd I am, also ‘Ali is a friend. O God, befriend him who 
befriends ‘Ali, and oppose bim who opposes ‘Ali, help bim who helps 
‘Ali, and desert him who deserts ‘Ali. Let truth go about with him 
wherever he goes.” Then he is ssid to have raised his head towards 
heaven and said 


(Zacuna.) 


24, ‘Ali gave away bis sesl-ring as alms, in praying. 

25. ‘Umar bh. Alkhattih was killed, and the Stra Hal’*Ali (Shira 
Ixxvi.) was revealed. 

26. David was inspired to ask for pardon (Siira xxxviii. 23). 


p.das 


894 atpinoyt. 


29. Battle of Alfarra, in which the Band-’Umayya killed the people 
of Medina, when the honour of the Mukdirdn (companions of the flight 
of Muhammad) and of the "Ansér (hie partisans in Medina) was atained 
and their wives were given up to the enemies. Therefore may God 
curse all those whom His Prophet cursed, of those who rebelled in 
Medina againat the law of God, and may He let ua belong to those who 
do not like wickedness on earth, Godis the beat Helper, and infinite 
thanka are His due! 


10 


20 


835 


CHAPTER XXI. 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS, TREIE RISING AND SETTING, AND ON 
THEIR INAOES. 


fr is now time for us to finish, after we have, as best we could, 
fulfilled our promiss in explaining the science of that subject which 
our friends wanted to know, and in relating all we know regarding it. 
But above every knowing man there is God all-wise! To complets the 
Tepresentation of this science, only one more chapter is required, that 
‘of the rising of the Lunar Stations in the days of the solar year. For 
this science is practised on account of its general usefulness for ths 
purpose of pregnosticating all meteorological occurrences which revolve 
together with the Lunar Stations. Therefore we shall now proceed to 
explain this subject both at Jarge and in detail, and we shall add some 
of the proverbial sayings relating to them, which we gather from the 
literature ef this kind, ¢g. from the hook of Alkulthimi, that of Ibri- 
him b. Alsarrt Alzajjaj, that of Yabya bh. Kuniisa, of Abi-Hanifa Aldi- 
newart on the’Anrf, the book of ’Ab&-Muhammad Aljahali on the 
science ef the configurations of the stars, the hvok of Abd-Albusain on 
the fixed stars, and from other books. 

The Hinds divided the globe, in confermity with their 27 Lunar 
Stations, into 27 parts, each Station occupying nearly 13} degrees of the 
ecliptic. ‘From the stars entering these Stations, which ure called Jufir, 
they derived their astrological degmas as required for every subject and 
eircumabance in particular. The description of thesc Astrologeumena 
would entail a long explication of things, foreign to our purposs, all of 
which may be found in~ and learned from—the books on Astrologou- 
mena. 

The Arabs divided the celestial ylobe into 28 parts, so that each Station 


p.336. 


337. 


336 aLstront, 


occupies nearly 128 degcess of the ecliptic, and each zodiacal sign con- 
tains 24 Stations. Some poet says: 
* Their number is, if you want to count them, 

Twenty stars, and a number 8 after them. 

In vach of the zodiacal signs there are 

Two Stations and ons complste third of a Station. 

A peculiar system of computation belongs to them, and they have 

their heliacal risings and ssttings, 
Which are the reason that winter and summer revolve.” 


The Arabs used tho Tonar Stations in another way than the Hindis, 
aa it waa their ohject to learn thereby all meteorological changes in 
the seasons of ths year. But the Arahs, being illiterate people, could 
not recognize ths Lunar Stations except by certain marks, visible to the 
eye. Therefore they marked the Stations by thosa fixed stars which lis 
within them, And the rising of the fixed stare in the east early after 
the rise of dawn they considered aa a sign of the sun’s entering some 
one of the Stations, and so they could do, since the stars do not recede 
from their placea except after the lapse of long spaces of time, and, 
besides, ths Arabs wera not educated enough to notice such a variation. 
Further, thay composed verses and rhymed poetry, so that thease things 
could easily be remembered by illiterate people, and recorded therein 
the annual physical influences which, according to their ohservation and 
experience, coincided with the rising of each particular Station. These 
sayings and verses they use to indicate certain circumstances of 
“theirs, eg. : 

“When the moon joins (ze. stands in conjunction with) the 
Pleiades, 
In a third night (of a month), then the winter is gone.” 


For the Pleiades occupy the place from 10° of Taurus till about 15° of 
Taurus. When, therefore, the moon joins the Pleiades in the 3rd night 
of a month, the distance between sun and moon is about 40 degrees. 
Then the sun stands in the first part of Aries. Further: 


“When full-moon is complete and stands with the Pleiades, 
Then you get the heginning of the cold season, the winter.” 


For when the moon stands in opposition to the Pleiades, the sun stands 
in tha middle of Scorpio, and that time is the beginning of the cold 
season. Further: 
“ When full-moon joins Aldabarén 
Tn the 14th night of a month, 
Thon winter encircles the whole earth, 


Being like riders who ride about, telling people to warm theim- 
selves, 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE LUNAR SPATIONS. 337 


And full moon rises iu heaven high overhead, so that 
The shadow of the tent-poles disappears, 

When the night has reached its middle 

And tho air is fres from dark clouds.” 


For at that time the suu stauds in Scurpio close to Alfald (the 18th 
Lunar Statiou); it is the time of cold and of morning frosts. The 
moon stands in some degree of nerthern declination, and frequently 
she stands in such a latitude from the ecliptic towards the directian of 
the declination, that she culminates (stands riyht) over the heads of ths 

10 Arabs. In consequence, the shadows of all bodies disappear at the tims 
when she reaches the middle of heaven, ic. at ihe time of midnight. 
Further: 


“When the new moon ofa month first appears 
To the eyes of people at the heyiuning of a night, standing in 
Alnawint, 
Then you get cold winds from every side, 
And you find it agreeable a little befora dawn to wrap a turban 
round the head.”” 


For at that timo the sun stands in the first part of Sagittarius. 
20 Farthsr: 


“The complete night, with all that belougs to it, has become cold, 
And the sun stands in the Station of Alar.” 


. For the stars of Alawwi Ghe 13ty Lunar Statjon) lie. around the P-838. 
vernal equinox, as the table of the Lunar Stations will show. 

However, if I were to communicate to the reader all the verses 
and sayings in rhymed prose which relate to the rising of each Lunar 
Station, I should also have to interpret their meanings, and to explain 
ths rare words that occur in them, This, however, we muy oinit, since 
it has heen sufficiently done by the authors of the books of *Ani, whom 

80 we mentioned above. 

Since the Arabs attribute all meteorological ckanges to the influence 
of the risiug and setting of the stars, in consequence of their ignorance 
of physical sciences, thinking that atl chauges of the kind depend upon 
the hodies of the stars and their risiug, not upen certain parts of the 
celestial globe and the sun’s marching thercin, they Lelieve a great 
many things similar to that which we have wenticned of the Sirius 
Jemenicus, duriug the rising of which Tippocrates in his time forbade 
taking hot drugs and phlebotomizing. 

And this subject remiuds me of au occurrence in my life which serves 

40 to confirm the verses of Ahmad bh. Faris: 


“ A wise man of by-gone times lis said : 
‘The importence of 2 man lies in his two smallest things. 


22 


p-389. 


838 arpinOont. 


T on my part also speak like a wise man, saying: 

‘The importance of 2 man lies only in his two dirhams,’ 
Tf ha bas not his two dirhams with him, 

His bride does not care for him. 

In consequsnco of his poverty he is despised, 

So that people’s cats piss at him,” 


For when I was separated from the court of His Highness, and wae 
bsreft of the happiness of the royal service, I met a man in Rai (Rhage) 
who was counted among the learned astronomers. He had studied the 
conjunctions of the stare which form tho Lwnar Stations, and he bad 
commanced to collect them in order to dcrive certain sentences (astrolo- 
goumena) from the Stations and their single parts, and thereby to prog. 
nesticate all changes of the air. Now, I told him that the truth is tha 
very reverse of his theory, that the nature and peculiarities which are 
attributed to the first Station, and all that which the Hindés relate of 
the connection of this Station with others, are peculiar to the first part of 
Aries, and never leave this place, although the star (or stars which form 
the Lunar Station) may leave it. Inasimilar way, all that is peculiar. to 
Aries does not move away from the placa of Aries, although ths constel- 
lation of Aries does moveaway. But then ths man became very haughty, 
and treated me slightingly, though hs waa inferior to me in al) bis 
knowledge. He told me my theory was a lie, and behaved very rudely 
to me; being very lengthy about the difference between ua in wealth 
and poverty, which changes subjects for glory into subjects for blame. 
For at that time I was in a miserablo condition, tried (trunhled) on 


10 


20 


all sides; afterwards, however, when my troubles had subsided (ceased) _ 


to some extent, he chose to hehave in a friendly way towards me. 

It is evident that, if the science of meteorology were to depend upon 
the rising of the bodies of the stars, as observed by eye-sight, the times 
and seasons of the Meteora would diifer in the same proportion 8 the 
atars chenge their places; besides, thsy would be different in different 
counttiss, and we should require for them as well os for the appearing 
and disappearing of the plancts various kinds of tiresome methoda of 
caleulations. 

In reality the rising of tha Tunar Stations means this, that the sun 
on entering one of them covers it and the preceding one too, whilst the 
third one, according tv the inverted order of the zodiacal signs, rises 
hetween tho rise of dawn and that of the sun, at that timo which Ibn 
Alrakka‘ describes in the following verses : 


“The observers saw Sirius distinctly, 
As he turned away, when the morning pruyer approached. 
T recognize Sirius shining red, whilst thes morning is becoming 
white. 
The night, fading away, has risen and left him. 


80 


40 


10 


20 


30 


ON TRE LUNAR STATIONS, 339 


The night is uot afraid to lose him, since he follows her, 
But the night is not willing to acknowledge that he belongs to 
the night.” 


The rising of a Lunar Station they called its Naw’, ic. rising. The 
influence of the rising they called Birik, the influence of the sctting 
they called again Naz’. The interval between the risings of two con- 
secutive Lunar Stations is 13 days, execpt the interva] between the rising 
of Aljabhe (the 10th Station) and of the following Station, which is 14 
days. So the following verses: 


All time, you must know, consists of fourths, 
And each fourth consists of sevenths. 
A complete seventh belongs to the rising of a star, 
And to the influence (Nex’) of a star setting in the west. 
Between the rising of each star 
And that of the following star there are four nights 
And nine nights more.” 


There is a difference of opinion regarding the Ani. Some maintain 
that each influence (of a Lunar Station) is brought nbont between the 
Tisings of two consecutive Stations, that therefore the inflacnee is attri- 
Imted to the former of these two Stations. According to others, a 
certain space of time is peculiar to the rising aud setting of vach Lunar 
Station, and everything that occurs in this time is attributed to the 
Station in question ; occurrences which fall after the cud of this space 
of time are no longer attributed to it. The last view is the generally, 
adopted one. Pe ot 

Besides, there are diffcreuces about the length of these spaces of tims, 
which we shall afterwards describe. 

When the inflnence of some Station has bevn found out and is known, 
and nothing happens at its time, pcople say: the star was empty; or: 
the Station was empty, te. the time ef its Nex’ has gone by without thers 
being any rain, or heat, or cold, or wind. 

(On the Winds,)—Regarding the directions of the winds, the planes 
over which they hlow, and their number, there ar different opinions. 
Some maintam that the directions of the wind are six, as Ibn Ifuniisa 
relates, on the authority of ’Abi-Muhammad Ja‘far b. Sa'd b. Samura b. 
Jundulb Alfaziri, whilst, according to most others, there are only four, 
as Khihd b. Safwiin relates; the latter is the opiniun ef most nations, 
although they differ regarding the planvs of the blowing of the winds. 
Both these opinions of the Arabs are comprised in the following two 


cirelcs; the former view is represented in the inner circle, ihe latter in p.340. 


the outer circle. There you also fiud tho names of the winds and the 
directions of their planes. Here follows the cirele. 


22 * 


340 ALBIRON?. 


—_ ° 


In the first theory the author (Ibn Kuniisa) places the wind Maza 
near the south wind, whilst it is well known that Afaéwa is the north 
wind, hecause it extinguishes (destroys) the clouds when they are empty, 
after the south wind hes driven them on, full of rain. In the same 
theory he assigns a separate plane to the wind Nakbd, whilst it is well 
known that Nakbi is every wind, the plane of which lies between the 
planes of any two other winds of the four cardinal winds. Dhé-alramma 
mentions the winds, Nadkd included, in this wav : 


“ Heavy rain-showers of some Ani and the two ZHaif (south wind 
and west wind), 
Which drove the sand-masses of ths dusty-coloured mountains 
a away over the house. 
And a third wind, blowing from the side of Syria, a cold one, 
Blowing with whirlwiuds along its road over the sand, 
And @ fourth wing coming from the rising-place of the sun, 
driving 
The fine dust of Almi‘i and of Kurikir over the house. 


10 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS. ob) 


The side winds, carrying along the dust, oxcited if (the east wind) 
to still greater vehemence, 

Se that it frequently roared like the shc-camels in the tenth 
month of their pregnancy, when the throes are near.” 


The two Haif are the south wind and west wind; the wiud blowing 
from Syria is the north wind; the wind coming from the rising-pluce of 
the eun is the cast wind. 

The planes of the winds with the Persians are the same as with the 
ancient Greeks, and all physical scholars; their cvutres correspond to the 

10 four directions. They are represented iu the following circle: 


hdres West 


or the centre cf the east wud or the plane of the west wind/ 


Any wind that lies between the ceutres of the planes of two other 
winds ie referred to that centre which is the nearest (and receives its 
name therefrom). Other people refer av intermediate wind to the rising 
and setting places of the sun at the time ef the solstices, and call it by 
a Greck name. 


(ethod for finding the time of the Nau’ and Barih of a Lunar 
Station.)—The following is a good method to find tho times of the 


$41, 


342 ALBSninf. 


influences (¢maypacia) ef the rising and the setting of the Lunar 
Stations: Take the time from the lst of [lal till that day the nature of 
which you want to find out, and divide the sum of days by 18. If there 
is no remainder, proceed in this way: If tho moon stands opposite the 
stn or in ono of her quedratuves, you get rain, if it is the season for 
rain, or somo change of tho air in consequcnee of wind, or heat, or cold, 
For if there ia no remainder (as in this case), it is the time of the rising 
of one Lunar Station and the setting of the opposite Station. On the 
Ist of Til falle the Bérif (influence of tho rising) of Algarfa (the 12th 
Station) and the Naw’ (influence of the setting) of Sa‘d-alakkbiya (the 
25th Station). From this date you begin counting, for this special 
reason, that it is the first of » month and the beginning of autumn, If, 
hesidea, the moon happexs to be in one of her Foundations, the influence 
(of the Lunar Station) will come out very strong. 

Aba-Ma‘char anys : “ We have tried this method A. H. 279in Shawwal 
at the time of full moon. We counted the daya from the lat Tlal till thia 
full moon. They were 180 daya; dividing them by 18 you get no re- 
mainder, and the Ascendens of the full moon (or opposition) was Amphora. 
So we got rain on that day, and when the moon atood in her right quad- 
rature, also on that day we hed rain.” 

Further, he agya: ‘We tried it also in the following year. We 
counted the days from the 1st fd) till Thuraday the 13th of Kanan I. ; 
the sum of daya we divided by 18, and there was no remainder; the 
distance between sun and moon was as much as half a zodiacal sign 
(i.e, 15 degrees), the moon had turned away from the hexagon of Mars 
and stood in conjunction with Veuus. At that very time we got rein.” 

Now, this is g testimony of Abié-Ma‘shar, showing that through thia 
method you obtain correct results. If, besides, you take to help’ the 
mansions (the places of the Lunar Stations) of the Hindts and their 
single parts, you are pretty sure in your calculation to come near the 
truth. 

People relate that among the Arabs the Bani-Miriys b. Kalb and the 
Banh-Murra b. Hammam b. Shaibiin had the moat accurate knowledge 
of the configurations of the stars. 

In enumerating the Nejin-oPakkdh, i.e. the Lunar Stations, the Araba 
commenced with Alsherején, since in their time they stood in the firat 
part of Aries. Otber nations begin with the Pleiades. I do not know 
whether they do thia because the Pleiadea are more easily and clearly 
visible without any atudy or research than the other Stations, or because, 
#8 I have found in some booke of Hermes, the vernal equinox coincides 
with the rising of the Pleiades. This statement must have been made 
about three thousand and more years before Alexander. God knows best 
what they intended! 

We shall adopt the Arabian system in enumerating the Lunar Stationa, 
aud shall begin, as they do, with 


10 


$0 


10 


20 


30 


40 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS. 343 


1. Alsharatén (8, y Arietis), 


fe. the two sigus. They are called so for the samo reason that the 
soldiers of the body-guard of a prince are culled Shuraf, since they 
mark themselvos by some sign, by the black colour, or something else. 
It censists of two stars Lelonging to Aries (8 and y). Sometimes, also, 
a third star neur them is added, and then this Station is called Alashrdt 
(plural instead of the dual Sharatin). Bstween the two stars, when 
standing in the middle of heaven, there is an interval of two yards 
according to eye-sight ; one of them belongs to the northern half, the 
othor to the southern. 

All measures of distances botween the stars according to cre-sight are 
to he understood only for that time wheu they stand in the middle of 
heaven, for these distances appear greater near the horizon in consequence 
of the intense refraction of the ray of light in the watery capours that 
surround the earth. This has been explaincd in the books on the geo- 
metrical configurations (of the stars). Further, the distance between 
two stars increases in the direction from north towards the south; 
frequently, too, when the stars march towards the horizon, it increases 
in the direction from east to west, or pretty nearly in the direction of one 
of the cycles of altitude. The reason of this is that the spheres decline 
frem the perpendicular direction which they have on the equator. 

The Station Al’cahrd? is also called Alnath (i.e. horn), because the two 
Sharat are placed on the root of the two horns of Aries. The metcoro- 
logical influences of this Station arc peculiar to the iirst (i.e. orijimal) 
position of Aries,and in no way depend upon the stars from which 
the Station has got its names. These stars have migrated from their 
criginal place (in consequence of the precession of the equinexes) and have 
in our time come to occupy a second position (different from the former). 


2. Albutain (ce, §, x Arietis), 


It consists of three stars at the end of the womb of Arics, forming an 
isosceles triangle. The word is the diminutive of Butz, su as to mean 
the tittle womb, so called in comparison with Bafu-alhad (the womb of the 
fish), which is the 28th Station. 


3. Althurayyd (Pleiades) 


consists of six stars close to each other, very similar to a cluster of 
grapes. According to the Arabs they form the clunis of Aries, but that 
is wrong, because they stand on the hump of Taurus. 

The word is a diminutive of Fkarwd, which is originally identical with 
Tharwa, i.e. a collection and great number of something. Some people 
Maintain they were called so hecauss the rain, which is brought by their 


p.842 


Bdeh aLtintnt. 


Nua’, produces There, ie. abumlance. They aro also called Alnajm 
(i.0. The Sar), 

Plolemy mentions only four stars of the Pleiades, sinco ho had not 
observed more of them, hecause to eye-sight they szam to lie quite close 
together, 

The forty days during which this Station disappears under the rays 
of tha sun, are, accordiog to the Arabs, tha worst and most unhealthy of 
the whole year. APasadi says: “ Althurasya pever rises Dor sets unless 
bringing some harm.” And one of their medical men says: “ Warraut 
mo the time between the disappearing and the rising of Althurayyi, apd 
T shall warrant you all the remainder of the year.” The Proplict is 
related to have seid; “ When the Star rises, all harm (mishap) rises from 
the earth ;"" and according to another tradition: “‘ When the Star rises, 
all mishap is raised from every place.” 


4. Aldabariin (a Tauri), 


a bright red star, so called hecanse it follows after the Pleiades, standing 
over the southern eya of Taurus. It isalso called Aljauit, te. a great 
camel-stallion (not serving for riding), because they call the stars around 
it Kilés, ie. young she-camols (serving for riding). Other names of it 
are “ The follower of the Star,” Lecause iv rising and sctting it follows 
immediately after the Pleiades, and Almuthdi (ie. a she-camel giving 
birth to a young one of imperfect formation). 


5, Alha&‘e (A, $', &” Orionis) 


consists of three small stars closu to each other, looking like so many 
dots impressed upon the earth Ly the thumb, the fore-finger, and the 
middle-finger, the fingers being clusely pressed together. They were so 
called because they were compared with a circle of buits on the side of 
the horse at the joint of the foot; such a horse is called Maks‘. They 
are also called Aliafd’é (or Altohdy). Ptolemy considers them as une 
cloudy star, and calls them the nebula on the head of Aljahhir, ie. 
Aljauza (Orion). 


6. Alhan‘a (y, € Geminorum) 


consists of two bright stars in the Milky Way between Orion and the 
head of Gemini, distant from each other as far as the length of a whip. 
The one is called Zirr (button), the other Afaiadn (walking along 
proudly); they stand ou the foot of the second twin. According to 
Alzajjaj, Han‘a is derived from the verh Hana‘e, i.e. to wind and twine 
one thing round the other, as if cach of them were winding and 
twining round the other. Aceording to others, this name is to he 


20 


30 


understood of a third star, standing behind their middle, which gives 40 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS, 345 


thom the appearance of an itveliae? ueck, The Arabs consider Allmn'a 
and six other stars as the buw of Orion, with which he shouts at the p.343, 
Lion, 


2, Aldhirié* («, 8 Geminornm) 


consists of two stars, one yard distant from each other. The one is the 
Blear-eyed Sivius or Sirius Syriacus, according to the Ams, the out- 
stretched arm of Leo; the other is Sirius “4dr or Sirius Yenwnicus, the 
arm of Leo which is ot stretched ont. According to the astrouomers, the 
outstretched anw is the head of Gewiui, and the other arm belongs tu 

10 the stars of Alkalb Alinntagaddin (Procyon). But people differ greatly 
tegarding these stars and produce varions futile traditivus and etories 
in support of the names which they give them. The rising of Ghamneise 
(the hleax-eyed Sirius) in the vear 1300 of Alexander took place on the 
10th Tanmilz, and that of Sirius Yemenicus on tho 23rd Tanuniiz. 


8. Alnafhra (Preesepic (¢) et duo Aselli (y, 8) Caneri) 


is the place between the mouth end the nostrils of the Lion, It is alsa 
ealled Allalut (the uvulu), aud consists of {wo stars, between whieh there 
is a uchula, tho whole helouging to the figwe of Cancer, 


a, Alfurf, 


20 the eye of Leo, two stra cluse to cuch other, vue helonging to Leo, the 
other to the stars outside the figure of Cauver, In front of them there 
are stars called Alashfiiv, 7c. the eyebrows of Leo. 


10. Aljabla (% y, 9, « Leonis), 


the front of Lev, four stars, cach stur distant from the other hy the length 
of a whip, lyiug athwart from rorth to south in a curve, not inv straight 
line, According to astronomers, they stand ou the mane of Leo. The 
most southern star of them they call the Heart of the Royal Lion; it 
rises when Suhail rises in Alhijiz. Suhail is the 44th star of Argo 
Navis, standing over its var. Its latitude is 75 degrees in the southeru 
$0 half. Therefore it does not rise very high above the horizon, in conse- 
queuce of which it has sowething unsteady fur the eye. People say that 
a man, if his eye falls on this star, dies, as they also relate that on the 
island of Riwiu, belonging tu Ceyicn, there is an animal the sight of 
which kills a mau withiv furty duys aflerwards, The most curious 
instance of the conncetion between aninul life aud its material influeuce 
is the fish called Silurus Elcetriens, For the haud of the ficherman who 
bas canght it takes care not to touch itas long as it is in the uet still 
living. If youtakea reed and tuneh the hving fish with one end aud kcep 
the other end in your hand, the hand bevomes feeble aud drops the reed. 


346 ALBiRont 


Farther, the worms in Raghad, ona of tha districts ef eastern Jurjin. 
For there you find in certain places small worms; if a man carrying 
water treada upon them, the water becomes bad and foul; if he doca 
not tread upon them, the water remains good and keeps its nice odour 
and swest taste. 

The death of » wan bitten by a panther, when a field-mouse pissss at 
him—— 


[Lacuna.} 


lL. Afaubra (6, 6 Teoenis), 


i.e. the shoulder of the Lien, the place where the neck bagins. Accordiug 
to Alaajjaj, it isthe place of the mane on his neck, hecause the mane 
bristles up when he isin wrath. According to Alni‘ib Alénull, Zubra is 
a piece of iron hy which tha two shoulder-blades ef a lion are imitated. 

This statien consists of two stars, distant from each ether by tho 
length ofa whip. They are also called the Fo Khurt, i.e. holes, as if sach 
of them were penetrating into the interior of the Lion, but in reality 
they stand upon tho shank of the Lien, one of them en the root of the 
tail. When they rise, Suhail is seen in Al‘irak. 


= 12. Alsaxfa (8 Leonis), 


& bright star near to sume very dim ones, called the Claw of the Lion, 
It stands on the end of the Lion’s tail, and is called so becanse the heat 
turne away when it rises, and the cold zurus away when it disappears. 


18. Al‘awwi (8, 2, ¥, 8, « Virginis) 


consists of fiva starsin a line, the end of which is turned. And there- 
fore the E.utien is called so hecause the verb ‘Awit means to turn. 
Alzajj@#j says: “I de net know of anybedy else besides me who has 
explained tho word in this way. Thoso who say that these stare are 
dogs running behind the Lion and barking are wrong.” They stand on 
the breast and wing of Virgo. 


14, Aleimak APa‘zal (Spica). 


It is also called the Calf of the Lion, and Alstmék Alrdmif is his other 
calf. 
This Simak is called *A‘ea? (ie. bare), because whilst the other Bimak 
Alramih (the shooter) is accompanied by a star, said te ha his lance, 
this one has no such accessory, and is therefore said to he bars of 
Weapons. 


10 


20 


30 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS, 347 


According to Sibnwaihi, Simik is called so on account of its rising 
high, or, according to others, “because the moon does not enter this 
Station. But if that were the case, Alsimdk Alatsat would not deserve 
the name of a Lunar Station, for, of course, the moon enters it and 
frequently covera it (so aa to make it disappear). 

Tt ig a brilliant stay on the left palm of Virgo, which some peoplo call 
Sunbula (tho ear). Bnt this is wrong, because the Ear (Spica) ia 
Alida (i.e. hog's bristle), which Ptolemy calls Aidafira, ie. Crines plexi. 
Thiais a number of small stars bebind the tail] of the Great Bear, vary 

10 much liko the leaf of Lub’éib, ie. belxine. The whole zodiacal sign ie 
aleo called 80 (i.e. Spica). 

According to the Arabs, AlAulba (the hog'’s bristle) stands on the end 
of tho Lion’s tail, being the amall hairs on the end of the tail. 


15. Alghafr (, «, > Virginis) 


consists of three not very brilliant stars on the train and the left foot of 
Virgo. According to the Arahs, it is the beet of the Lunar Stations, 
because it atande behind Leo and before Scorpio. The evil of the Liou 
lies in hia teeth and claws, the evil of the Scorpion lies in its venom and 
the ating of itatail. A Rajaz poet says: 


20 “ The best night for ever 
Lies between Alzubina and Al’asad (iico).” 


People say that the horoscopes of all the prophets lie in this Station ; 
but this does not seem to be true except in the case of Measiah, the 
Prophet who keeps off all mishap, The hirth of Moses—according to 
the report of tho Jews—must have coincided with the rising of the 
tooth of Leo and the moon’s entering the claws of Leo. p.345. 

It is called Ghafr, because the light of its stars is imperfect, from the 
verb Giafara, t.e. to cover a thing, or, because it rises above the claws of 
Scorpio and becomes to it like a Mighfar (i.e. coat of mail). According 

80 to Algzajjaj, the name ie derived from Ghafar, t.c. the bair on the end of 
the Lion’s tail. 
16, Alzubind (a, 8B Libres) 
consists of two brilliant stars, separated from each other as far as five 
yards, and standing in a place where the two claws of Scorpio mivht be; 
they belong, however, to Libra. The word is also derived from zabana 


(i.e. to push), a8 if the one of them were being pushed away from the 
other, not united with it. 


VX. APiktit (B, 8,  Bcorpii) 


ia the head of Seorpio, consisting of three stars which form one line. 
49 Ibu-Algifi declares this to be impossible, and maintaine that it consists 


$48 ausfroni, 


of the 8th star of Libre and the 6th one of the stars outside Libra, as 
also Pioletay has it in hie Aloagesat. According to Tbn-Alsifi, those 
who conaider the threo bright etare in one line as APiktl are mistaken, 
for he saya that the Crown, (i.e. AViklil) could not be anywhere but upon 
the head. However, the general view of the Arabs—in opposition to that of 
Ibn-Algifi—is thie, that the three stars in one line are APikiil. The 
Arabs have a proverb applicable to this subject, saying: “The two 
contending parties were content, but the judge declined to give a 
judgment.” 


[28. Alkalh (a Seorpii) 


is a red etary belund Al‘iklil and between two stara called Alniyas 
(prescordia).] 


19. Alchauta (A, v Scorpii) 


is the sting of Scorpie, eo called becauee it is always mushdla, 7.6. raised. 
It consists of two bright stars near each other on the top of the tail of 
Scorpio. 


20. Alna'd*ins (y, 8, & 0, 0, ¢ 7, ¢ Sagittarii) 


coneiste of eight stars, four of them lyingin the Milky Way in a square, 
which are ths Descending Ostriches, descending to the water, which is the 
Milky Way ; and four of them lying outside the Milky Way, also in a 
aquare, which are the Aecending Ostriches, ascending and retuming from 
the water. 

Alzajjaj reads the word Alnz‘d’im, ie. the beame placed above the 
mouth of a well, where the sheaves of the pulley and the buckets are 
fixed (attached). 

The stars were compared to ostriches, as if four of them were 
descending, four ascending. The Descending Ostriches stond on the bow 
and arrow of Sagittarius, and the Aacending QOstriches stand on his 
shoulder and breast. 


21. Abbalda 


ia 2 desort district of heaven without any stare, at the side of the Horee, 
belonging to Sagittarius. Accurding to Alzajjaj, this station was com- 
pared to the interstice between the two eyebrows, which are nat connected 
with each other. Yousay ofa man ‘abled, which means that hig eyebrows 
do not run into each othar. 


10 


20 


30 


30 


20 


30 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS. 349 


22. Sa‘d-Aldhabif (a, 8 Capricorni) 


consists of two stars, the ons to the north, the other to the south, distant 
from each other ahout one yard. Close to the northern one there is a 
small star, considered as the sheep which he (Sa‘d) slaughters. The two 
stare etand on tho horn of Capricorn. 


23. Satd-Bula‘ (n, v, « Aquarii) 


consists of two stars with a third aud hardly visible one between 
them, which looks as if one of them bad devoured it, so that it glided 
down from the throat to the breast. According to others, it was called 
90 because Sa‘d is considered as he who devoured the middle atar, rabled it 
of its light and concealed it. According to Abd-Yahya b. Kuniisa, this 
Station was called so hecause it rose at the time when God said: “ O 
earth, devour thy water” (Sira xi.46). Thisiaa rather subtle derivation. 
These stare stand on the left hand of Aquarius or Amphora. 


24, Sad Aleetid (8, ¢ Aquarii) 


consists of three stars, one of which is more bright than the two cthera. 
It is called so hecause people cousider its rising as a ducky omen, hecause 
it rises when the cold decreases, when the winter is past and the 
season of the continuous rains sets in. Two of these stars stand on the 
left. shoulder of Aquarius; the third one stands on the tail of Capricorn. 


25. Sa‘d-AU'akhbiya (y, t, 7, 7 Aqnarii) 


consists of four stars, three forming an acute-angled trigone, and one 
standing in the middle, as it were the centre of a circumseribed circle. 
The central star is Sa‘d, and the three surronnding stars are his fenés. 
According te others, this Station was called so because at the time when 
it rises all reptiles that had been hidden in the varth come forth. These 
stars stand on the right hand of Aquarius. God is all-wise! 


26. Alfargh Alawwal (a, 8 Pegaai), 


also called the Upper Handle (of the bucket), and the First Tico who 
move the Bucket in the Wel? (in order to fill it). It. consists of two bright 
stars, separated from each other, standing on the spine and shoulders of 
Pegasus. 


p.346, 


350 atatrint. 


27, Alfargh Aluhint (y Pegas? and a Andromeda), 


also called the Lower Handle (of tho buoket), and the Later Two wha 
smove the Bucket tn the Well (in order to fill it), Tt conaiata of two stare 


similor to Alfargh Alawwal. According to the Arabs Amphora consists 
of those four stars. 


28. Bajn-Alpii (8 Andromsde), . 


also called Aalb-AlAtit, is a bright star in the one half of tho womb of 
a fich (a star) called Rition, which must not be confounded with the 
Teoo Fishes, one (the 12th) of the zodiacal signs. These stars stand 
above Lihra and belong to Andromeda (lit. the chained wife who had 
not seen a husband). 


The preceding notes we have condensed and have added thereto other 
notes relating to Lunar Stations; this we have arranged in the form of 
a table, showing the nature of the Lunar Stations according to the 
different theories. We have also noted the rising of the stare of the 
Stations for the year 1800 of Alexander according to mean calculation; 
this we have also deposited ina table of the conditions of the stars of 
the Iunar Stations. If you look into these two tables you will find that 
the superscriptions at the top of each column render it superfluous to 


consult anybody beforehand as to their ase. Here follow the two 
tables. 


10 


20 


| 


rmine 


| 
3 
4 
Hu 
£Be 
1| Bq 
2| 8g 
3i2a 
414 
5 .. 
6 
7 3. 
8 
3 gs 
10 ZF 
11, 
12! 
131 
ar 
15 | 3 
18 Ef 
17 3 
18; 
19 
25 
1/35 
cated 
22 ' 3 
var 
25 |* 
6 
7 ite 
28 | Ze 
| las 


LAlhokfs . 


Names of 
tbe Lunor Stations, 


Al sharotin 

Al-batsin . 
Al-tharayya, 
Al-dabardu . 


AlL-ban‘'a 
AL-dbird’ 
Al-nathra . 
Al-tart . 
AlLjobho . 
Al-zubra. 
Algrin 
Al-owwa 
Al.simak 
Al-ghafr 
Al-zabana . 
Al-ikit] ‘ . 
Alkalb oo. 
Al-shaala 
Abnaidin . . 
Al-balda =. > 
Batl-aldhabih 
8a'd-Balat . . 
Sa‘d-alsa'tid : 
8a‘d-al’akhbiya . 
Alfargh Almuknd- 


dom . . 
; |Alfargh Almv’akh- 


khar . . 
Bagu-alhdt . 


- 


0 | Miadling 
26 | Lucky 
52 | Lucky 
[8 | Unlacky 
44 | Unlacky 
10 ; Lucky 
Lucky 
Mixed 


Uniucky 
Mixed 
Lacky 
Middliag 
Unlucky 
Mixed 


Lacky 


Mixed 
Lucky 


Intermediate 


ry 
Moderate 
Moist. 
Moist 
Intermeiliate 
Moiat 
Intermediato 


ry 
Moist 
Intermediate 
Moist 
Iatermedinte 
Moist, Intermediate 
Moist 
Moist, Modorate 
Moist 
Dry 
Moist 

Moist 

Moist 

Moist 

A littlo noist 
| Intesinediate 
: Dry, Moderate 


o 


sb 


On what days # ga 


of the 3 
Syrian months ay 
they rise. 2 
rite 
oe 
aa8 
oat eas 
«10; 1 
Nisfa . ae 23 ‘ 
* ¢ 6: 
lyyar . "219 1 
ee | 
Haziran 4 14 3 
27 | 1 
Tamms { 23 
Z ‘ 
cee ees Se Ae 
1 3 
fio. 4 wa! 4 
3 
ne 4 
Tishvin J. a 
Tishrin 13. $ 1B! ‘ 
| en | 
Kavan 1.5 | 
. 27 I 
+ 8; 1 
Kanan 11. > v2 | 1 
6 4: 1 
Shubit +} 17 i 1 
2 1 
Adhar. 


& 


Tishrin I. i 
I 

Kandn L. fis 
27 


Kanan [1. ‘a2 


Bhupit ; 2 
| a 
Adhar. { 15 
vs 
<i «10 
Nigiin (a 
‘lyyar . v19 
1 
Haatrdn 4 14 
27 
Tunas ie 
An he 
1 

fi. . - 
: 
27 


, of 


each Nau‘ 
to Yahya b. 


each Naw 


many 
uence 
Stetion) 
Kupisa, 
How many 
Taat: 


Hi 


rf 
a 


of the 
last: 
| tomost Anwa-bookr, 


How 
inf 


How 


Hh OD PHM SOMO h OO PHI IDINWAHAOH WO * lasts, acconing 


He CO HH Ee PCE ROS Hh OOOH aoe He 


*SKOLIVES UVNM'1 GUL XO 


196 


The lifierent sancti 
tepresente: © Stars of the tanor 
Stations neorrding tothe 


6S$ 


1 Tho two horns of Aries 
| Tho belly of Ariss 
| Clonis Arietis 
The oye of Tuuras 
Tho head of Orion 
| Tho bow of Orion 
: Tho odt-rtretched fore-leg of Leo 
| Theo nose of Len 
| Tho two oyes of Leo 
| Tho front of Leo 
; Tho withers of Leo 
The tail of Leo 
The hip of Leo 
, The calf of Leo 
The coat of mail of Scorpio 
Tho two xtings af Scorpio 
Tho head of Scorpio 
1 The heart of Seorpio 
The tongoe of Scorpio 
The Oatriches 
A district withoot stars 
Not belonging to nny constellation 
Tho same 
Tho same 
The samo 


"NYAITIV 


18 | The sboulder nad right fore-leg of | Tho appex cross-bar of Ampbora 


pp. 349, 350. Tania or tHe Stars or tHe Lunaz Srartions, 
ba here tac a PO GAG nn ea ape a 
Thonames | BE glqcecyrantusten | thoSpran monte | repsovegied bp tho stor of toe Huns 
‘Lunar Stations. d § Bl of a Aer. 1200 of Ay Nex 1300 | uae ee! s according te ths 
1, Al-sharatin,  .| 2 | Nisin 22 | Tisbrin LL = 22 | Tho two horns of Aries 
2. Al-batain | 3 5 4 | Clanis Arictis 
3. Al-tburayy& -| 6 | *Iyyar i 18 | Tishrin 11. { 17) Tho hunch of Taurus ' 
4. Al.dabaran . -| 81 30 _ ae ee 
6. Al-hak‘'a | 3 13 ¢13 0 head of Orion 
a 2J-hao'n ‘|g | Moztran 126 Kantn }. 496] The two tect of the ssooad twin 
. Al-dhirds s| 2 9 8 | Tho hoad of the twins 
8. Al-nethra fr 8) fica © Saar fot Cancer 
9, Al-tarf. | 2]. 4 Shubat { 3] Tho neck of the Lion 
10, Al-jabho -| 4 |Ab i 17 ; 416 | The mano and beart of the Lion 
11.Al-sobra. lw] 2 31 1] The rovt of tho tai) of Leo 
I2Alsarfa . .| J har (18) Adhar { 141 Tho end of the flank of Leo 
18. Al-awwd 2 «| 4 126 27 | The sranetct Virgo 
14. Alsimaik . «| J e g ¢ | The hand of Virgo 
15.Alghofr . .| 3 | Tishrin!. 9 95 | Nisin d22 | The train of Virgo 
16. Al-zubind «| 2 4 6 - Tho scalo of tho Balances 
17, Al-iklt) -| 8 | Tishrin IL 517 | lyyar 18 ! Tho front of Scorpio 
18, aes “| 380 3t The heart of Scorpio 
19. Al.shacla . 2 13 (13! The tongue of Bcorpio 
20. Al-na‘d'im g ,Kindol. 499) Gazirdo 9 96 | The bow of Sagitturine 
41, Al-halda , 0 8 9. Tho body of Sagittarius 
22, Ba‘d-allhbih q |Kandals. 4 oj | Tammds es Tho hora of Capricorn 
23, Ga‘d-bulas . 2 | shaba ¢ 3 4| The loft hand of Aquarius 
24, Sa‘d-alsa‘d -| 3 bat 216 Ab 17 | The left shoulder of Aquarias 
25, Sa‘d-al'ukhbiya .| 4 I 81 | Tho right arm of Aquaring 
26, Alfargh almuakad. i 
dam. .  .| 2 | Adhér 4 
27, Alfargh alma’akb- ha Pegasus 
kbar, Fs -| 2 27 26 | Tho wiug and navol of Pegasus 
28. Botn-alhdt . ‘ | 1 | Nisin 9 | Tishrin 9 The flank of Andromorla 


mmm a ee mn a a er 


| Tho lowor erosa-bar of Amphora 
, Tho womb of Piseos. 


ON THE HUNAR sTPA1IONS, 353 


(On the interstices between the Lunar Stations,.)—The moun’s p.351. 
standing in conjunction with a star or with stars which give the name 
toa Lunar Station aud belong toit, is called her Muktlahe ; it ie disliked 
as foreboding evil. 

Tf the moon, accelerating her course, passes by (beyond) a Station, or 
if her course is slackened and sho has not yet reached the Station, so 
that she is scen standing, as it were, in an interstice between two Lunar 
Stations, this is called the moon’s ‘Udi; and this phase is liked as fure- 
boding something good. 

10 Some of these interstices are called by spccial names, e.g. the interstice 
between the Pleiades and Aldabarin is called Aldaika, This inturstice 
they consider as a had omen, foreboding evit. 1t is called Daika, 
because it sets very rapidly, for between the degree of the setting of the 
Pleiades and the degree of the setting of Aldabarin there are siz 
degrees on the ecliptic, and nearly sever degrees on the cquator. 
Aceording to seme authors of ’Anwi-books Duika consists of the 21st 
and 22nd stars of Taurus, which the Arabs cali the Dog of Atlabariu, 
bot this is not correct. 

Sometimes the moon, not reaching Alhan‘a stands in AL-tahiyi, ic. the 

20 24th, 25th, and 26th of the stars of Gemini. According to others Alta- 
Adyt is identical with Alhog¢‘a; whilst others again maintain that it is 
neither the one nor the other. 

Sometimes the moon, net reuching Alsimik (Spica), stands in her 
throne of Alsimik, which some Arabs call the Backside of the Lion, ie. 
the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th of the stars of Alghurdd (Corvus). 

Sometimes, not reaching Alshaula (Aculeus Scorpii), the moon stands 
among tho Kharasit, i.e. the vertebre of the tail of Scorpins. 

Further, not reaching Albalda, the moon stands in Alfibidu (Menile), 
also called Al'udhiyy (Nidus Strnthiocameli) i.e. the 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 

80 13th, 14th, of the stars of Sagittarins. Some people take these stars to 
be the how, but they are the head of Sagittarins and his two lecks. 

Sometimes, not reaching Sa‘d-alsu‘tid,the moou stands in Sa‘d-Nushira, 
ie the 23rd and 24th of the stars of Capricornus. 

Sometimes, net reaching Alfargh Althin’, the moon stands in Allarab, 
which means the place where the two cross-woods of the bueket meet, 
where the string is fastened, ic, the 5th and 7th of the stars of the 
Great Horse (Pegasus). Or (not reaching Alfargh Althini), the moon 
stands in the Balda of the Foz, te. an empty starless region between 
Alfargh Althini and Alsamaka (Pisces). 

40 Some one of the authors of ’Anwi-beoks thinks that Alaniain, i.e. the 
lat and 2nd of the stare of the Triangu/um, stand between Bufa-uléit and 
Alskarafién, where he saw them sctting after Alaharatin ; therefore he nuun- 
fains that the moon, not reaching Alshara{iu,stunds in Alunisin. But this 
is wrong, forAlanisin stands in Aries more westward (Jt. at utore deytees) 
than Alsharatin. However, tha retardation of the setting of Al’anisin 


23 


p.382, 


854 ALBIRONE. 


(that they set after Alsharatiin) was caused by their northern latitude. 
For it is peculiar to the stars that those which have much northern lati- 
tude rise earlier than those that have less, that in consequence the 
former set earlier than the latter, and vice verad in tha south. 

Because, now, the fixed stara which give the forms and names to the 
Lunar Stations move onin one and the same slow motion, you mustadd one 
day to the days of their rising and setting in every 66 solar years, since iu 
auch # period they move on one degree. We have represented in a table 
the places of the stara of the Lunar Stations for A. Alex. 1800, along 
with the names given to them by the astronomers, witb their lougitudes 
and latitudes, and the six degrees of magnitude to which each star 
belongs. ‘Now, if the reader wants to know the reality about the Lunar 
Stations, he must correct their places for his time according to the pro- 
gression we have mentioned, é.e. adding one degree for every 66 years. 
Further, as to their disappearing in the rays (of the sun) and their 
coming out of the rays, he uses the rules mentioned in the Cazons. The 
demonstration of these things is fuund in the Almagest. The eastward 
and westward motions of the Lunar Stations differ at the same rate as 
the latitudes ef the countries, further according to the six classes of 
magnitude to which the stars belong, and according to their distances 
frem the ecliptic. In so doing he will arrive at certain astonishing facte 
when he has to do with high degrees of latitude north of the ecliptic; 
e.g. when Venns stands in conjunction with the sun in the sign of 
Pisces, the time of its being concealed under the mys is one day or 
nearly two @ays, whilst it is nearly 16 days when sh» stands in conjunc- 
tion with the sun in the sign of Virgo. 

Mercury is observed in the sign of Scorpius in the mornings as pro- 
gressiug towards the sun, whilst the interstice between them is as much 
as ¢ths of a sign (i.e. 24°), and receding from the sun, whilst he is not 
at all seen in the evenings. The reverse of this takes place when he 
moves in the sigu of Taurus, for then he is observed in the evenings 
progressiug towards the sun and receding from him, whilst he is not 
seen inthe mernings, All these particulars are explained and accounted 
for in Ptolemy’s Almagest. 


Here follows the table of the places of tho stars of the Lunar Stations. 


20 


30 


Alsharat{in . 
Albutain =, 
Althursyyi. 
Aldaboriy . 
Slbskn 
Alhana =. 
Aldbiré' , 
; Alpathra . 
| attort . 
l 
» Aljabhs 
{ Alenbra 
Alsorta . 


' 
ND! ap, FA 
3) Al‘awwi . 
a | Alsimak 


Alglufr  . 


“( 


. 


‘The vtar on the icit, the southern foot of Virgo” * 


{ & tinued on nest pige.] 


——— 7 : eee 
ie eal Longitsde. | Latitude. $3 #2: 
a 
Which places in the 48 constellations the single stars of the §agla-- | a Ge bes igs 
Lunar Stations occupy. 3 el ae é Z é £ # BE g $ 
oa5: § z 
2ea8i 3a : & | cee | gee 
a hon A | & $4 +85 
The foremost of the two stars which are the horns of Aries. , ; -| a fof] ag! 2 | 20 juorth| 5 
‘The following oe. . . . . . 2) O} 19 | 13 ; 8 | 20 | north 3 
The etar on the root of the backside of Aries. 5 a . é 7,1 2) 53, 4 | 5O | north 5 
The foremost of the three stars in the backside of Aries’ 7 . . 8 i. 1 § | 2%: 1 | 40 | north 4 
‘The star on the eecoud thigh at Aties . . . . -f Ub yd Lf tz, 2° 20 | vorth 5 
The northerz end of the foremost rib of AlthorayyA in Taurus | < . 2y 1 13 | 43 4 30 + north 5 
The southern end of tho foremost rib . . . . . 30 1 ig 3 3. «40, north 5 
: The second end of Althurayyi, the narrowest piace in the constellation - : ‘} ato] 2] is} 3) 3) 90 [north] 5 
‘The emall star outside urnyyd to the sort is a 325 1 15 {3 6 | north + 
| wo acars not mentioned by Ptolemy, vor by any astronomer belore him or after him f i), oe worth | 4 
e ya the southern eye o! Urs . q youth i 
The star vu the south {Ta uo! ti a 5 7 ao | south 
The vebula on the heud of Orion. Ptolemy county the middle of the ‘Triangle agone star . 1 2 3 33 43 | 40 : eouth | nebula 
‘Th2 star on the left foot of the second T . . . 7 . «| 7 2; 23 7 | 30 | north % 
The star on the richt foot of the second Twin . . ‘ . * {| 3] 2] W@W. 1 10 | 30 | uorth 4 
The stur on the head of the foremost Twin , . ‘ . : . 1 3 4 | & 9 | @ | uorth 2 
The star on the hend of the sccond Twin . . . . . 2 3 8 13 © 15 | uorth 2 
| The centre of the nebular cluster fu the breast of Cancer - ; . ‘ 1,3} a] % QO | 20 | north | nebula 
| The most northern of the following two stars . . . . . 4 13] 2 ay 2 { 40 | north 4 
The most sauthema of them. : i : ee 
One of the four stars outside Cuvcer, following after the oud of the sonthern ating . 214 38H} | & | 40 | south 4 
The star ou the check of Leo. . . . 2 4 2 43 7 | 380 | north 4 
The nivst northern of tle three sters ov the neckof Leo . s y . 8 a 1 a3 M1 0 } north 3 
The following star, the uiiddle oue of the three . . . . . oY 4 / 13 > 43, 8 | 30 | north 2 
The most sotthern ope of then . . ‘ . 7 4 WwW j 3 + 30 | north BY 
* The star on the heurt of Leo, iso enlled Regtus “(Reyuades) . 7 . 8 4 Hi 3 0 lo | north 1 
Of the two stars on the Lelly of Leo the followizg one . . . 20 4) 23 ea! wp 4) ) torth 2 
The northern stur of the two stars on the upper parts of the harnches at Leo . 2 4 27 $y 9 40 | anorth a 
The star on the etd of the tail of Leo . . . . . 27 4 8 ' ot: ib i 50 | north 1 
The starz on the end of the left wing ot ‘Virgo : i . = . $§ 5 ; (rn | rr 10 | uorth a 
The following etur. ° . . . ° . . G $ 19 $8 1 lo | uorth 3 
The next following star : . 7 Sj 24 | 4 2) 3 north; 3 
The most northern of the three stars in the right wing, the Provindentator . | ls 6) 3 15 | 1g uorth x 
The stor. on the left palm of Virgo ‘ . 14 $s! 3 Bi 2: @ south I 
The middle one of the three stare on the traia of Virgo | . . ‘ . 5. 18 ts 7 | 30 imerth | 4 
The southern one of them . . . ‘ ce 2) 5) 1 2 4) ‘verti + 
. . 3% . 6 ZI oy Q wh north i 4 


“SNOLLVLS UVAG' GH Ko 


pp. 355, 856. 


rr er) 
er ry 


ot Sasittarius, 


[Continued from previous page.) 
Nawes of | Which places in the 48 coustellationa the single atars of the 
L the u | Lunar Stations occupy. 
— 
| he most prilliant of the two stars on the end of the sonthern sting, i.e. on the eouthern 
eo 0’ . . . . - - . . . 
Aloband . 4 ‘The most brilliant of the twostass on the end ot the Sarthe ting, i on the aortBers 
\ The most norubern of the throes brilliant stars on the forehead of Scorpius 
ADDO ‘ { Toe middie one of them . . e . . . 
Akay Ta tendkeote ‘ : : 2 
‘Gani Ee ee ent ike cting of Scorplus, the fallowing one : 5 
3 f 'Yhe preceding one =. ‘ . . . . . 
ee tas pies nse omarca otguniets) 
, é . : ° ‘ 
Alns‘im ain The star om the ecutberp sida nf the bow i : s : 
’ The star on the foremost rightankle . ’ ° . . 
a pe Saar on Se Leh star of Snattore . . . . 
\ ca the urrow ‘ ° 5 . . 
Alns'dm A-gédir { The star on the neck, the middle one of the thres stars ou the beck = * 
That one of these three stera which stands onderthy wmbole . . 
Albaldn . . i A space witbout stars, lying in the south vear the Ita avd 12th stars 
Sata Aldhibih {i Toe most northern of the three stars in the aecond horn of Capricorn 
* +41 The most southera of them . ‘ “4 a x 
svdBurt. of ae raiddle one of the throes eture on the baht of Aqaarius 7 


one of . . 
i qthe wtar on the lett shoulder ot Aqrariue = : 
Sad Alsu'ud 4 | The atar onder it on the back, Aa as it were under the armhole 
The star ou the eud of the tail of mm . ° 
| The moet northern of tho three stares the right palm of Aquari 
@ northern 0 8 ma of Aquarius 
Said AVakbbiyn. | ‘The forémost of the two other stare . = . . . 


h Almn. ¢| The star on the right ehoulder of Pegasus snd on the root of his fout 
rs ea { The oter on the Doak of Pogaaus ‘ween the two ehoulder-hiedes 


Alfergh : . ; 
‘okbkhar. The eter on the back snd the ond of the wing 
Bafnalhtite . ji rhe uioes southern of the thrée stare above he 


Almu- The star on the usvel of Pegasus, belonging in 2a te Pegama snd to me head o! 


Grawers of Andromeda 


meee 


ote 


. . 


354 5 
5 S Longitude, 
‘Sead 
Peale |i 
ons S 
B26 20) 2 E 
1 G 2 3 
8 o] s| 
1 7? 17 53 
2 ? 17 13 
$ ?7)7/| 3B 
8 va 4 13 
2 2 9 3 
21 ? 8 33 
1 8 i8 3 
2 8 is 13 
8 & 19 &3 
2 8 13 
6 8 $3 
2 8 33 
2) & 13 
8 53 
8 53 
8 53 
4 
13 
38 
53 
1g 
3 
13 
3 
8 
chy 
13 
2 
a 
23 


Bee awit Ew Bow agen 
S 


BER ohFBlksaonklan LVLSH 


Minutes. 


ad 


Sh8 ShaeSaecmmaans aauutseanthaavea o 
SoSchGSaSSeoS KSSSoEBSSSooSES S 


B50 


The sizea ac. 


ernotsoutheru 


1 fatitiude. 


cording to Abn- 
allusain Alsdfi. 


Whether vorth- 


a 


gz 2 
ad tog 
NBS OOSSSHGOM EGS SES Wisi MUU to 


x 
5 

ES 
x 


998 


*{NQAlaTy 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS. 357 


(On projection, and the construction of star-maps,}—I bave p.357. 
followed in this book a method which the student of this science will 


not disapprovs, treating in each chapter the snbjecl as fully as pos- 
sible, and not referring the reader to other books until I had wyse)f 
nearly exhausted the subject. Now, I must add to the hook another 
ehapter on the representation of the Lunar Siutiuus und of other 
conste)lations on even planes, for the humau wind, onec knowing at 
what different times the different stars rise, forms au idea as to the 
positions whieh they oeeupy in the ecliptic. Our remarks iu the pre- 
10 ceding pages will enable the student to recognise the stars of the Lunar 
Stations by eye-sight, and to point them out. However, uot everyone 
who requires these things knows the positions of the ecliptic. Besides, 
the representation of the Lunar Stations as well as the other stars 
comprehended by the 48 constellations (on au even plane), offers many 
conveniences in common to all elnsses of scholars. The same applics to 
the representation of countries, cities, aud what else there is on carth, 
onan even plane. Therefore, uot knowing any spucial treatise on this 
subject, I shall treat it myself, mentionimg whatever oeerrs to my 
mind. The reader, I hope, will excuse ! 
20 = The projection of great and small circles aud points on globes may 
he done in this way, that you make one of the two poles the top of 
- cones, ths onvelopes of which pass tloough them (the circles and 
points), and eut a certain planus which is assumed. For the parts 
(lines or points) which are common to this plano and the envelopes 
of these cones if they pass through cireles, or common to this plane 
and the lines (of this cone) if they pass through points, aro their 
projections on this even plane. 

This is the method of the astrolabe (stereographic polar projection), 
for in the north the southern pole is made tue top of the coues, aud 

30 in the south the northern pole is made the top of the cones, and the 
plane which we want to fiud (the plane of projection) is one of the planes 
parallel with the plane of the equator. Then they (te. the coner) repre- 
sent themselves as circles and straight lines. 

‘Aba-Hamid Algaghint has transferred the topa of the cones fro the 
two poles, and has placed them inside or outside the globe in a straight 
line with the axis. In consequeuce the eoncs represent themselves as 
straight lines and cireles, as ellipses, parabulas, and hyperbolas, as ho 
(Abi-Hamid) wants to have them, However, people have not beeu in 
® hurry to adopt such a curious plane. (This is the ecutral projee- 

49 tion, or the gencral perspective projection.) 

Another kind of projection is what I have called the cylindrical pro- 
jection (olthoyecaplic projection), whieh I do not find mentioned by any 
former matkemativian. Tt is ecarricd wut in this way: You draw 
through the circles and lines of the globe lines and plancs parallel to 
the azis. So you get in the day-plane straight lines, cireles, and ellipses 


p.358. 


398 ALBIRUNI. 


(no paralolas aud hyperbolas). All this is explained in my book, which 
gives a complete representation of all possible methods of the construc- 
tion of the astrolabe. 

However, lines, circles, and points do not represent themselves in the 
same way on a plane as on a globe; for the distances which are equal 
on a globe differ greatly in a plane, especially if some of them are 
near to the one pole and others to the other pole. But it is not the 
purpose of the astrolabe to represent them (the lines, circles, points) 
as agreeing with eye-sight, but to let some of them revolve whilst the 
others are at rest, so that the result of this process agrees with the 
appearances in heaven, including the difference of time. On the other 
hand, the purpose of the representation of the stars and countries 
(on even planes) is this, to make them correspond with their position 
in heaven and earth, so that in looking at them you may form an 
idea of their situatiou, always keeping in mind that the straight 
lines are not like the revolving (circular) lines, and that the spherical 
planes have no likeness to the even planes that are equal among each 
other. 

We must give an illustration to make the reader familiar with these 
methods. One way serving for this purpose is the construction of the 
flat astrolabe. 

Draw a circle as you like it,the greater the better. Divide it into four 
parts by two diameters which cut each other at right angles. Divide 
one of the radii into 90 equal parts. Then we make the centre of 
the circle a new centre, and describe round it circles with the distances 
of cach of the 90 parts. These circles will be parallel to each other, 
and will be at equal distances from each other. Divide the circumference 
ef the greatest circle into the (360) parts of a circle, aud connect each 
part of them and the centre by straight lines. 

In doing this we imagine the periphery of this first circle to be the 
ecliptic, and its centre to be one of the poles of the ecliptic. On the 
ecliptic we mark a point as the beginning of Aries. Then we fix the 
places of the stars according to Almagest, or to the Canon of Muhammad 
b. Jabir Albattént, or to the Book of Fixed Stars, by ’Abi-Alhusain 
Alsafi, taking into account the amount of precession up to our time, and 
changing accordingly the places of the stars as determined by our pre- 
decessors. Take one of the stars of that half (of heaven) for which you 
have constructed this circle, and count from this assumed point (the 
beginning of Arics), proceeding from right to left, as many degrees as 
the star is distant from Aries. That place where you arrive is the 
degree of this star in longitude. 

Further count, from the same pcint in a straight line which extends 
to the centre, the corresponding number of the star’s latitude in the 90 
circles. Then the place you arrive at is the place of the body of the 
stars (i.e. the poiut determined by both the degrees of longitude and 


10 


20 


30 


10 


20 


80 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS. 359 


latituda). There you make a dot of yellow or white colour, according to 
the class of magnitude and brilliancy to which in the six classes the star 
may belong, 

The same process you repeat with every star the latitnde of which 
lies ix the same direction, till you have finished all the stars of this 
direction. The same you centinue to do with the stars of another diree- 
tion, until you have fixed the stars of the whole sphere in two circles. 
Wo mark thesa circles with the blue of lapis lazuli, in order to distin- 
guish them from the stars,and we draw round the stars of each con- 
atellation the image whieh the stars are believed to represcat, after 
having fixed all the stars in their proper positions. In this way tho 
ohject we had in view is realized. 

This method, however, we do not like, because the figures on the 
ecliptic canunt completely be represented, siuce some parts of them fall 
into this half, some into the other half. If you drew round the circle 
of the eeliptic, outside of it, 90 eircles, parallel to and distant from 
each other as faras in the former construction, in the same way as is 
done with the flat astrolabe, the matter would evidently proceed in tha 
same order. Further, we do not like this method, as the places of the 
stars in heaven and those in the design (drawing) greatly differ from 
each other. For the more southern the stars are, the distances between 
them which appear equal to the eve aro ihe greater aad wider in the 
figure, if its centre be the north pole, till at last they assume quite 
intolerable dimeusions. The same applies to the method of hiu who 
wants to represent the stars in the plane of 2 circle which passes through 
tho two poles of the ecliptic, in those points where the straight lines of 
their heights touch the plane (i.e. the foot-points of the verticals), which 
methed is similar to the astrolabie projection; for then the figures of 
the stara are in an undue wanner compressed towards the periphery, and 
they hecome too large about the ceutre. 

‘We shall now try to find another metiod, which is free from the in- 
conveniences of the process just mentioned. 

We draw a eircle, divide it into four parts (by two dianieters cutting 
each other at right angles), aud upon the points of the four parts (ie. 
whera the diameters touch the peripbery) we write the names of the 
directions (i.e. north, west, south, east). 

We continue the two diameters that divide the circle into fourths, 
straight on in their direction: in infinitum. 

Each radius we divide into 90 equal parts, and the periphery into 360 
parts. 

Next we try to find on the line of the cast and west the centres of 
cirelea, each of which passes through one of the parts (degrees) of the 
diameter and through both the north and south poles. 

When these centres have been fixed, and we draw all the possible 
circles round them within that first (and largest) cirele, we get 180 arcs, 


p.359, 


360, 


360 aLpirtst, 


which divide the diameter into equal parts, and which out cach other at 
each of the two points, the north and aonth pointe. 

These circles are the circles of longitude, 

Then we return to that line which proceeds from tho north point aa 
the atraight continnation of the diameter. On thia line we try to find 
the centre of a circle, passing through those points of the periphery 
which are distant from the east and west points 1 degree, 2 degrees, ete. 
until 90 degrees, and through those points of the diameter which are 
distant from the centre ] degree, 2 degrees, etc. until 90 degrees. 

Tho eam we do in the southern half, on the line which proceeds from 
the south point as the atraight continuation of the diameter. 

The cirelea we get in this way are the circles of latitude, 180 in numhor, 
which divide each of the circles of longitude mto 180 parts. 

Further, wo assume the west point to he the beginning of Ariss, and 
the line from east to west to he the ecliptic. From the hegirning of 
Ariea we count the distance of each atar; ao we fiud ite degree (of 
longitude). 

Then we count the latitude of tho star in the proper direction on the 
circle of longitude. Thereby we find the place of the star, 

We make another figure aimilar to the firet one, whero we assume tho 
west point to be the beginning of Libra In this way we can give a 
complete map of all the stars in the two figures. Lastly, in representing 
the single star-groups or constellations, we draw those images which we 
have heretofore described. 

If we want to make a map of the earth, we construct o similar figure 
ag descrited in the preceding. We count the asaumed longitude of a 
place from the weat point, and then we count the degrees of latitude of 
the place on the circle of longitude. So we find the pesition of the place, 
The same we continue to do with other places. 

This ia the technical (graphic) mevhod for the solution of thia 
prehlem. 


As some people have 2 predilecticn for calculations, ané like v0 
arrange them in tahles, and prefer them to technical (graphic) metnode, 
we shall also have to show how we may find, by calculation, the dia- 
meters of the circles of longitude and latitudc, and the distances of their 
centres from the centre of the (great) circle. And with that ¥ shall 
finish our work. 

We draw tie circle ABCD round the centre H, and divide it into four 
parte hy meana of the two diametera AHC and BHD. 


A is to he the weet. 
B n south. 
Cc - east. 
D 7] north. 


10 


20 


30 


10 


30 


40 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS, 361 


The radii we divide into 90 parts, and the whole circle into 860 
porta. 

Nov, e.g. We want to find tho radius of the circlo BZD, which is one 
of the circles of longitude, and the distance of its centre (from the 
centro H). 

Now, it is evident that HZ is known, being determined by the 
degrees, of which tho radius HC as well as the mdii BH and HD 
hold 90. 

The multiplication of HZ, which is known, hy the unknown sum of 
HK+K2, which is the diamoter we want to find, sinus ZH, 


is equal to 
the multiplication of HB by HD, i.e. the syuaro of one of them. 


We take the square of HB, ¢c. 8,100, and divide it by ZH, which is 
known. Therehy we get the sum of HK+KZ. To this we add ZH, 
aud take the half of the whole sum. That is ZK, the radius of that 
circie to which BZD belongs. 

Now, after having found out so much, we open the compasses to such 
an extent as the new-found radius is long; onc of the legs of the com- 
passes we place on tho point Z, which is known, and the other leg we 
place on the continuation of the line HA, to whetever point it reaches. 
The latter point is the centre of the circle, ie. K. 

In this way we can dispense with the knowledge of the distance 
between tho two centres. 


(in the following the toxt is corrupt.) 


This is the solution of the problem hy means of calculation. 


If you want to find the distance of the passage, 7.e. that point on the 
periphery of the circle where the line which connects the two points B 
and K cuta the periphery, viz. the arc AT, draw the line BK which cuta 
the periphery in T, draw the vertical (ie. Loth-Linie, the line which 
represents the height of a trapeza or cone) TS upon BD, and draw the 
line TD. 

Because, now, im the triangle BHK the sides are known according 
to the parts, of which the radius counts 90, we change each side into 
that measure, according to which the radius counts 60 degrees, 7.e. we 
multiply it by 60 and divide it by 90. So it is changed into the sexage- 
simal system. 

The triangles BHK and BTID and BST are similar to each other. 
Therefore we multiply KH by BD, and the product we divide by KB. 
So we get DY as the quotient. 

Next we multiply DI by HK, and divide the product by KB. So 
we get DS as quotient (changed into that measure, according to which 
DT holds 60 parts). 


p-361. 


862 ALBiRntnt. 


If we take the corresponding arc in the table of sinee and eubtract the 
are from 90, we get AT as remainder. 

If we want to find the paseage (T) by an easier method, we change 
the triangle BHK, the sidee of which ere known, into that measure 
according to which the radius of the circle ABCD contains 60 parte. 
Then the angle TDB in the first figure, and the angle TBD in the eecond 
figure, is that which determines the whole distance of tha passage (from 
A), as a chord determines the distance between the two ende of an arc. 

If we want to change each side of this triangle into the measure 
according to which BK holds 60 parts, we multiply it by 60 and 
divide the preduct by BK, according to the meaeure of which the radius 
holde 60 parts. So we find what we wanted to find. 

If we, then, mow the side HK according to this mcasure, we take 
the corresponding arc from the table of eines. So we get the are DT. 

So, by whatever method we solve the problem, the end we aim at is 
the came, and also the reeulis. 


Here follow Figuree I. and I. 


10 


10 


ON THE LUNAR STATIONS, 863 


Let us again construct the came figore to show the eame thing for the 
circles of latitude. 

The circle of which we want to find the radius ie that one to which 
MQL belongs. AM as well as HQ and CE are to correspond in number 
(.e. to hold the same number of parts). 

We draw the vertical (Loth-Linie) MX, which is the sine of DM, 
which is known, and we draw HX, i.e. the sine of AM, which is aleo 
known. 

Then we subtract HQ from HX, after we have changed it from the 
nonagesimal syetem into the sexagesimal ayetem. The remainder we 
get is QX. 

By this we divide the zquare of MK, and add QX to the product. 
Of this sum we take the half, which is QK, the radius of the circle to 


62. 


364 ALBiROn?, 


which MQL belongs, according to the measure of which the radius of the 
arcle ABCD holde 60 parts. 

If we want to find the diatanca of the passage (T) from A, we draw 
the line AK, which cuts the periphory of the oircle in T. 

Further, we draw the line TC and draw the vertical (Loth-Linie) 
TS upon AC. 

Thon we multiply AC by HK and divide the product by AK. 
Thereby we get TC. 

If we multiply this divisor by HK, and divido tho product by AK, we 
get 8C. 

Multiply it by AS, and the root of the product is TS, which is the 
sine of the are of the passage (ie. of the aro AT). 

Likewise, if we change AH into the measure according to which AK 
holds 120 parte, and we take the arc from the tablee of whole chords, we 
get the arc AT, i.e. the distance of the passage (from A). 

This method applica in the same way to the direction of C as to the 
direction of A, to that of B as to that of D, without the slightest 
difference. 


And here ends my work. Hero follows Figure IIT. 


(Conclusion.)—Now I have fulfilled my promise, and I have compre- 
hended in my exposition al] the parte of this science, agreeably to the 
wishts of my friends, exerting myself to the best of my capability. 
Every man acts according to his fashion, and the value of 3 man lies in 
that which he understands. I hope that the elements which I have laid 
down are sufficient to train the mind of the etudent, and to lead him to 


te) 


ON THR LUNAR STATIONS, 365 


a correct consideration of ths origines of mankind, sufficient to lay epen 
all that is doubtful in the eras of prophets and kings, and to give a cor. 
tect idea of their own system to thoss of the Jews and Christians 
who ars led astray. 

If the reader be liks me (in knewledge), he will thank ms for the task 
I have carried out ; if he be superior to me (in knowledge), he will be so 
kind as to eerrect my errors and to pardon whatever wistekea |. may 
havemade. If he be inferior to me in knowledge, he will not do me auy 
harm, because he will either acquiesce in heing led by me fur the pur pase 

10 of his instruction, or, in case he opposes me, he will offer opposition to 
things which he has uot the power of mind to handle suecessfully. 

But why should I mind—or bs afraid of—the enmity of any adversary, 
since my badge is, wherever I am, the power cf our lord, the noble 
prince, the glorious and victorious, the benefactor, Shains-clma‘dli—may 
God give long duration to his power! Its firm column is my trust; from 
the fact that it spreads sacretly and openly I derive strength; its brilliant 
light is the guide of my path; his undisturbed happiness is my trust 
and my hope. May Ged teach me aud all Muslims to be truly thankful 
for his henefits by fulfilling all the duties of ohedience as preacribed hy 

20 the law, and by continually praying to God that He may reward him 
according tu His mercy and grace. 

Let ue finish our boek with the praise ef Ged, who afforded me help 
end guidance, and who taught me to distinguish the path ef truth from 
the path ef blindness. “Let those who want to perish (as infidels, 
idolaters,) perish, after a clear proof (of the érze religion) has been pre- 
eented to them, and on the strength of it, an? let thore who want to live 
(the life ef the érve religion) live, after a clear proof (of the irue religion) 
has been presented to them, and en the strength of it.” (Ceran, 9. 
viti, 44), 

80 The mercy and hlesasing of God be in all eternity upon the Prophct 
who was sent to the best of natiens, and upon his holy family! 


367 


ANNOTATIONS. 


p.1,1. 25. Shkams-almo‘dli. This prince, Kabts ben Washmgir ben 
Mardawij, who had received from the Khalif the honorary name of 
Shams-elma‘ali, ie. Sun of the Heights, belonged to the family of the 
Banfi-Ziyad, who ruled over Jurjfin (Hyrcania), Tabaristén, and other 
countries south of the Caspian Sea during 155 years, viz. a.m. 315-470, 
Kabie, after having reigned a.u. 366-371, was driven away and fled into 
the dominiona of the Simanian dynasty, where he lived as an erilo, 
whilst his country was occupied by a prince of the family of Buwaihi 
4.8. 371-388. To thie period the author alludes, p. 94, I. 19 (‘‘at the 
time of the Sahib (i.e. Sahih Ton-‘Abbéd the Vazir of the Buyide prince) 
and when the family of Buwaihi held the country under their sway’). 

Kahifs returned to the throne aH. 388, and waa killed 403. This 
hook was dedicated to him according to all probability a-a. 390 or 391 
=a.p. 1000. The history of this prince is found in Schir-eddin’e “ Ge- 
schichte von Tabaristan,” etc., ed. Dorn, pp. 185-198. 


p- 2,127. Wading. Although all three MSS, have ¢-%, I think it 
would have been more idiomatic to read g23. The second form occurs 
4,17; TY, 7; ©, 19. 


p-3,1.14. Which have come down from them. The words axe Ji! 
are very had Arabic, next to impossible. It seems rather likely that 
between them a word has fallen out, eg. Sle, or some synonym of 
asl. 


p. 5,115. Nychktheneron. To mect the inconvenience that the word 
day means the totality of day aud night as well as the light hull alone, I 
have ventured to adopt for the former meaning the word Nyckthemeron, 
for which 1 beg the reader’s pardou. 


368 ANNOTATIONS. 


p. 6,1. 87. Canon of Shahriyévin Alshdh. Tho word Canon (20 I 
tranalate the word Zi) means a collection or handbook of astronomical 
tables of various kinds. They were alwaya the depositories of the latest 
discoveries of Eastern astronomy. For more information on these 
Canons I refer to the excellent work of L. A. Sédillot, “ Prolégoméneedea 
Tablea Astronomiques d’Olough-Beg,” Parie, 1847, p. viii. ff. (Table 
vérifiée, etc.) 

A Canon of Shahriydrdn Alstdh ia not mown to me. However, there 
is a Zij-i-Shahrydr and 9 Zij-Alshdk, witb either of which thia Canon 
may he identical. 

The former was of Persian origin, and was tranelated into Arahie by 
Altamimi, vide “Hamze Iepahaneusis Annalium,” libri x-, p.'", and 
* Kitib-alfihrist,” od. Fligel, p. 241, 244, and notes. 

The second, with several other caucus, was composed by the famous 
mathematician and astronomer, a native of Marw, Habash (Ahmad ben 
‘Abd. Allah), who lived in Bagdad, end of the second and beginning of 
the third century. Cpr. Sédillot, ““Prolégoménes,” p. x., note 8, and the 
“ Kitab-Alfibrist,” ed. hy G. Fligel, p. v4, aud the annotations. 


p. 6,142. A variation which during the eclipses, etc. I have not been 
able to asortain what relationship between the eclipses and the different 
length of the days is meant by the author in thie passage. 


p. 7,1. 39. Except one Muslim lawyer. The following discussion is of 
more interest to a Mubammadan theologian than to na. The canonical 
time of fast was from the rise of dawn till sunset, and some too pious 
people mistook this day of fast for the astronomical day. 


p. 8,line 22. Likewise it had boen forbidden, ete. This passage refers 
to a custom which existed among the Muslims in the time before the 
verse Siira I, 183, was pronounced by Muhammad. We learn from the 
commentaries of Alzamsakhshari end Albaidawi that the time of insti 
extended over the whole Nychthemeron, except tho time from eunseté till 
the second or laat night-prayer, i.e. about midnight, or till a man fell 
asleep, during which eating and drinking and women were allowed. 
Omar onco had intercourse with one of his wives after he had said the 
last night-prayer; this breach of the custom made him fael penitent, 
and ha apalogized to tho Prophet. Thereupon the Prophet abolished 
the old custom, and pronounced the verse in question, allowing his 
people to eat and drink and have intercourse with their women uot only 
from unset till the second night-prayer, but also farther till the rise of 
dawn, ie. nearly the whole night. For the traditiona concerning this 
subject vide ‘* Dokhaxi,” ed. Krohl, 1, Pvv, Pva. 

In my translation, p. 8, l. 23, read “ after the last night-proyer” instead 
of “ after night-prayer.” 


ANNOTATIONS. 369 


p. 9,114, Tradition which relates, etc. It is not quite clear to what 
tradition the author refors in this passage. Prof. L. Krehl kindly directed 
my attention to a tradition which occurs several times iu Alhbokhart 
(“ Recueil des Traditions Mahométanes,” publi¢ par L. Krehi), e.g. i. 149, 
ii, 50, ete. Here Muhammad compares Jews, Christians, and Muslims 
to workmen. Ths Jews work from sunriss to noou, and reccive one 
Kirit as wages, ‘Ino Christians work from noon till the aiternoon- 
prayer, yos!\ 51. and receive one Kiriit, The Muslims work from the 
afternoon-prayer till sunset, and receive two Kinait. So the Muslims 
receive twice the wages of the Jews, whilst they only work half the 
time. 

To a similar tradition ths author seems to refer. He cal’s the Mus- 
lims ‘‘ those who haster to the mosque on a Fridey,”" thereby distinguishing 
them from Jews and Christians, 

In any caas this tradition must have proved, according to the author, 
that Muhammad repreaented the day, whether it be short or long, as 
divided into twelve equal parts, the so-called dpa xacpxai. 


p. 9,1. 36. What te he, etc. The reading of the MSS. gpl, I have 
changed into ppt. It seems preferable, however, to read «pU, as Prof. 
Fleischer suggests. 


p.9,1.46. The prayer of the day is silent (or, rather, mute). 


Ths two prayers of the night (Ast Spo and sleslt 515) are oie 
de. these prayers are spoken with a clear audible voice. The two prayeis 
of ths day (,e' Eo and yo} Slo) are ola te. these prayers are not 
spoken with an audible voice or whisper; the lips move, but no sound 
is produced. Therefore they ave called gles i.e. the two silent or 
mute ones, which name is derived from the tradition quoted hy the 
author. 

This division docs not comprehend the moruing-prayer pedt Sys. 
But it can bs proved from tradition that this prayer ic to be spoken with 
an audible voice. In the Afuwatte’ of Mak ben ‘Anus (published 
with the commentary of Alzurkani at Bilik, a.g. 1279, tom. i. p. \), 
Alfurifiga hen ‘Umair Alhanafi relates that be learved the Sdrat-YAsuf, 
ie. Sara xii. hy hesring it from Omar, who recited it repeatedly as his 
morning prayer. 

The anthor wants fo prove that the ad} gle is not a day-jrayer. 
beceuse it is spoken at the rise of dawn, ic, before the beginnins of the 
Guy. According to holy tradition the prayer of the day ig sileud (or mute), 
whilst the morning prayer is not. 


a4 


370 aLBinont. 


p.10,1.3. The“ first” prayer, etc. Tho five canonical prayers of the 
Nychthemeron are thess : 


Spytelt Bylo or lydt oltalt Spe 

slasd) Blo or 8-31 otal Blo Prayera of the night. 
eae ed 

wT Ble) prayers of the day. 

van ble } yer’ ay. 


Tho anthor’s argument is this, that gro 56 or morning-prayer is 
not a prayer of the day, because the je} dg is called the first, ie. the 
firat of the two day-prayers, and because the yaw} 8+ is called the 
middle prayer, i.e. the middle between the first day-prayor and the first 
night-prayer. If the g-dt 5s belonged to the day-prayera, the ye 
yt would nof be the exact middle in the way we havo described, for in 
that case the jit Slo as well as the yw! 8 would be in the midst 
between the first day-prayer and the first night-prayer. 


p. 11, 1.12. Sindkind. An astronomical hand-book of Indian origin, 
edited the first time by Alfaziri, au. 154, and a second time by Albé- 
rini’s famous countryman Muhammad ben Misi Alkhwairizmi. Albériini 
wrote a book (commertary ?) ou the Sindhind with the title oyryt aly 
Peet qslun coh dpig't jbtysd. For the literature on this subject I refer to 
Fligel’s “ Kitib-alfibrist,” p. 274, notes. 

The word Sixdhind is supposed to be the Sanskrit Siddhénta. I musi, 
however, obaerve that Albérint writes this word in the more correct form 
of ses. eg. in the title of his book, ‘On the mathematical methods of 
the Brékmasiddhdnta,” vai 3 ye BOM poly od be Baez. 


p. 11,115. Fhe four seasons, Read gy instead of &y,¥t. 


p- 12,138 The quotation of Theon refers to the introduction of his 
Upoxyepor xavdves, where he speals of the Julian year of the people of 
Alexandria, of the Egyptian year of 865 days, and of the Sothis period 
of 1460 years ; vide * Commentaire de Théon d’Alexandrie sur les tables 
manuelles astronomigaues de Ptolemée,” par M. PAbbé Halma; Paria, 
1822, p. 30. On the Sothis period, cide BR. Lepsius, “ Chronologie der 
Aegypter,” Berlin, 1849, p. 165 ff. 


p. 12, 1. 40. On the year of the Persians, cf. a short treatise of 
A. v. Gutsckmid, Ueber das tranische Jahr, “Sitzungsberichte der Kgl. 
Sichaischon Geselschaft der Wissenschaften,” 1862, 1 July. 


p. 18,122. The Hebrews, Jews, and all the Israelites. It is difficult to 
explain what differences the author meant to express by these three 
words, which to us mean all the same. Perhaps he meant by Hebrews 
ths ancient Jews, Samaritans, and other kindred nations; by Jews, the 


ANNOTATIONS, 371 


monothsistic people in particular ; and by all the Baui-Israel, the totality 
of the Jewish sects, Rabbanites, ‘Auiuites (Kariier), and others. Vide 
a similar expression on p, 62, Il. 16, 17. 


p. 13, 1.34. Ina similar way the heathen Arabs, etc. Cf. with Albé- 
rini’s theory, the description ef ancient Arabic chronology by A. 
Sprenger, “Leben und Lehre des Mohammad,” iii. p. 530 ff., and 
* Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenlaindischen Gesellschaft,” tom. xiii. 
p. 134, and tom. xxxi. p. 552. 


p. 18, 1.42. The gencalogy of the Kalimis occurs also, but with some 
differences, in Ibn Hiskdm, “ Life of Muhammad,” cd. Wistenfeld, i. pp. 
29, 30. 


p. 14,1,16. “ho text of this verse is incorrect, for, according to the 
context, it docs not contein a description of Fukaim, but of "Abd Thu- 
mama; and, secondly, the metre is disturbed, for 1 do vot think that 
the Ucentia poetica allowed a poet to distort the word Laeldt into Loolt. 


pil, 113. Zhe leap-year they call Adhimdsa, According to the 
double construction of the verb om; the Indian word may either hs 
duledy or beled, It seems preferable to read 4«\esk, and to explain dost, 
as Adhimdza, although it must he observed that this means “intercalary 
month,” not “ intercalary year,’ ae the author maintains. Cf. Reinaud, 
“ Mémoire sur l’Inde,” p. 352. 


p.15, 115. And their subdivisions, Read Wyte (as depending ou 
pelass3), ie, the Jafir of the Lunar Stations. 

Our dictionaries do uot explain the meaning which the word Jaf, pl. 
Jufér, has in this passage. It is a term peculiar to the Indian system vf 
astrology (‘Utirid ben Muhammad wrote a book On the Indian Jafr, 
welt sight QOS, vide “ Kitib-.alfibrist,” p. 278), and it means something 
connected with the Lunar Stations, perhaps certain subdivisions (but 
this translation of mine is entirely conjectural). 

The word occurs in four other placcs in this hook :—p, 336, |. 9. 
The Indians derive their derpodvyovpera from the fact of the stars 
entering the Ribdtdt (ic. resting-places, road-side inns) of the Lunar 
Stations, These Ribitét are called Jufir, and cach of them is 
thought to refer to some special matter or event (life, death, travelling, 
victory, defeat, ate.). Their number must have been very great, he- 
canse the author gays that he will refrain from enumerating them, as 
this would dstain him too long from the subject of his book. p. 338, 
1.14: The author, speaking of the same subject, mentions the Ribiyit 
and the Jufér of the Lunar Stations side by side; also, p 341, 
L% On p. 847, both words occur in the superscription of column 5, 


372 aLBtroni. 


but here the writing of the manuscript is such a bad scrawl that 1 do 
not fcel sure of having made out a correct text. 

As the subject-matter seems to be of Indian origin, one may presume 
that the word also is derived from the same source. 


p-. 15, 1.17. Abi Afekemmad Aln@ ib Alémuli (i.e. a native either of 
Amul in Tobaristin or of Amul or Ani on the Oxus), the author of 
a Kitéd-alghurra ia mentioned four times, vide p. 53, 1. 34; p, 285, 1. 8; 
p. 344, 1,2. He is not known to me from other sources. 


p. 16,114. Cannot be dispensed ecith. Read ot instead of gat 
(Fleischer). 


p.17,1.6. A tradition for which, etc. Instead of & &,A%- (IP, 4), 
read fyite or  Sy+e (Fleischer). 

p- 17,18. Perhaps we shall facilitate the understanding of the 
following pages, if we state the order of the author's arguinents. 

A. Notions of the Persians regarding the Era of Creation, p. 17, 1. 8. 

B. Notions of the Jews on the same subject, p. 18, 1. 5. 

©. Notions of the Christians, p. 19, 1. 10. 

D. Refutation of the Jewish theory, p. 19, }. 41. 

E. Refutation of the Christian theory, p. 21, 1.5, and Biblical pro- 

phecies relating to Muhammad, p. 22, 1. 17. 

F. On the Thora of Jews, Christians, and Samaritans, p. 24,1. 1. 

G. On the differeuce of the Gospels, p. 25, 1. 36. 

H. On sectarian Gospels, p. 27, 1. 9. 


p.17,1. 9 For the Persians, ete. Cf. with the following traditions, 
chapter xxxiv. of Bundeheach, ed. ¥, Justi, 1868. 


p18, 15. Phe Jews and Christians differ, etc. An extract of the 
following by Almakrizi has been published by 8. de Sacy, ‘“ Chresto- 
mathie Arabe,” tom. i. p. 284. 


p. 18,116. By Hisib-aljummal the author understands the noi stion 
of the numerals hy means of the letters of the Arabic alphahet, ar-.nged 
according to the sequence of thc Hebrew alphabet. 


p. 18, Il. 19,20. Alvd*i, Abé-‘Jed Alisfahdni. Of these two pseudo-Mes- 
sials the latter is well known. For his history, vide H. Greetz, 
* Geschichte der Juden,” 2nd edition, tom. v. p. 167 and p. 488. Of the 
former name there is no pseudo-Messiah lmown in Jewish history. 
However, Graetz reports of a pseudo-Messiah (loc. cit. p. 162), whom 
he calls Serene. The oldest Hebrew report concerning this man 
begins : 

mM yas yh wba toyed yw Sawa onda 
A Wik 


ANNOTATIONS, 873 


“ What you have asked regarding tho deceiver (or heretic) who has 
risen in our exile, and wheso name is ys,” cte. Whether this name 
has any connection with the Arabic tI, whether the reading Y 
is to be changed into 4, students of Jewish history may decide. 
Certainly a later Latin chronicle calls him Screnus (Graetz, Joc. cit 
p. 484 #8.) A pseudo-Prophet, Ri, in Tiberias, is also mentioned by 
Al-Jauhari in “Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenlindischen Gesell- 
schaft,” xx, 490. 


p- 18,1. 25. The author's transliteration ef Hebrew words resembles 
very much the present pronunciation of the Jews of Galizia. Betweeo 
the words O7Md and Hy the Arabic has the signs yy, and the last 
word N17 is written p2y2t2 for both of which variations Iam unable 
to account. 


p. 18, 1. 35. Since the time wher, The Arabie translation of this 
passage is not quite correct, and uext to unintelligible. It betrays a 
certain likeness to the translation of the Syriac Bible (Peshiti), where 
this passage is rendered by— 


HaowS Pong coud? Loses 7a)? is} too 
“ And from the time when the sacrifice passes away, impurity will 
be given to destruction.” 
Accordingly I read the Arabic text : 


hallt SH Bale at ged gla jyee silt eaglt bee 
although I am aware that this is bad and ungramuitical Arabic. On 
p. \%, 1. 20, read ye with PL instead of y-2. 


p. 19,112. Sum of 1885. Read yl, instead of ey yay on p. ", 
1 8. 


p- 19, 1. 22. Urishtim, i.e. Jerusalen, etc. The author gives to this pro- 
phecy of Daniel a wrong datc. 1t falls into the first year of Darius, 
v. Dan. ix. 1, not in the time some years after the accession of Cyrus to the 
throne. This latter date the author has taken from Dan. x, 1 (“in the 
third year of Cyrus,” ete.), and Dan. x. 4. 

Porhaps in the Arabic text (p. \\, 1,11) the werd © has fallen out 
hetween the words (54 and gem. 


1.19, p. 31. Azd before this, ete. This is a blunder of the auther’s. 
It onght te he, “ And after this,” etc. 


1, 20, p. 43. Jerusalem, Here, p.17, 1. 21, aud in all ether passages 
(p. 16, 11.1, 13, ete.) the correct reading is oud lew according to Yakit, 


374 ALBiRONS, 


© Geographisches Worterbuch,” iv. 590, not yatedl ee. In the follow- 
ing line, p. 18, 1. 1, read cst instead of J\ (Fleischer). 


p- 22,119. For Muhammad, ete. Read saa) instead of 00 on 
p. 19, 1.8, 


p. 22,140, Almathnd. Read Gist instead of ately; and in the 
following line read 43 . instead of dS gps (p. 19, 1. 18). 


p. 28,116. Legions of saints who, etc. This passage is of Koranic 
origin, and formed upon the pattern of Sitra iii. 121. Tho idea of war- 
viors wearing certain hadges (as e.g. the cross of the Crusaders) occurs 
also in a tradition, vide Alhaidiwi ad Shira iii. 121, and Lane, Arabic 
Dict. 3.v. py-3. 


p. 24,15. After Nebukadnezar had conquered, atc. The last source of 
this tradition regarding the origin of the veraion of tho Seventy is the 
letter of Aristeas, well known to Biblical scholars, and now gvnerally 
admitted to be apochryphal, vide Dea Wetto, “ Lehrbuch der historisch. 
Initischen Einleitung,” edited by E. Schrader, part i. p. 92. 


p- 24, 1.28. And each couple, etc. Read “and every one of them fad 
got @ servant to take care of him.” And in the Arabic, ‘\, 2, read Jey 
instead of yeley, SL4y instead of palsy, and 1. 8, lees instead of day, 
On the same page, 1. 6, read JoF instead of Je. 


p. 25,1.2. Alldmasdésiyya. This name is derived from the expression 
tytlewe 3 (‘' do not touch”), in Sra xx. 97; wide S. de Sacy, ‘‘ Chrestomathie 
Arabe,” i. pp. 889, 342, 344. It ia identical with ’AOéyyave, tho Groek 
name of a heretical sect, vide Du Cange, ‘‘ Lexicon infims: Gracitatis,”’ 
and “ Etymologicum Magnum,” ed. Gaisford. 


p. 25,1.25. <Anianus. The Arabic manuscripts givo the name yay 
ie. Athenaus; bnt the well-known Athenwus cannot he meant here. I 
prefer to read qysics\, Anianus. This author, an Egyptian monk, con- 
temporary of Panodorus, is known as a chronographer; he is quoted in 
the fragmentary chronology of Elias Nisibenus, cf. Forshall, “Cata- 
logue of the Syriae MSS. of the British Museum,” p. 86, col. 2, no. 5. 


p. 25,1.28. Zbn-albezyér, from whose Kitab-al\irinét the author haa 
taken the statement of Anianus, was a pupil of Habash, and lived in the 
9th century, vide “ Kitab-alfihrist, p. 276. 


p. 26, 1.80. But no male children, etc. Read yer 3 instead of gy), 
p. *, 20. 


ANNOTATIONS. 375 


p- 27,15. Now Joseph and Mary, etc. Read 3\) instead of 13U, on 
p. T, 6, and Ub instend of , 1.15 (Pleischer). 


p. 28, 1.11. J¢ is related that Tohmirath, etc. The last sonrce of this 
roport is the Book on the Differences of the Canons (astronomical hand- 
hooks), by Abfi-Ma‘siiux, cf. “Kitéb-alfibrist,” p. 240, and also 
“ Hamze Ispahanensis 4 unalium,” bri x. ed. Gottwaldt, p. 197. The 
word as= in this report, p. 24, 1. 9, means scientific books, as also in the 
“ Kitab-olfihrist,” p. 240, 1.28: ‘And he ordered a great quantity of 
scientific books (5.45 Wee) to be transported from his storchouses to that 
place.” 


p. 28, 1.16. Least exposed, etc. Read tare instead of dre, on p. 24, 1.10. 


p. 28, 1.28. That Gayémarth was not, etc. The same tradition occurs 
in the chronicle of Ibu-Alathir, ed. Tornherg, i. p. 34, 1. 5. 


p. 28, 1. $4. Some gencalogists make the Lid of Genesis x. (in Arabic 
353) tho father of the Persians, Hyrcaniens, of Tasm and Amalek, ete. 
(Tbn-Alathir, i 56). Tho Arabs have mistaken the Hebrew OXON 
(2neei, the original inhabitants of the country of Moab) for a singular, 
and for the name of a man (Amim ben Lid, Ibn-Alathiy, i. 56). 


p. 29, 14. Abé-Ma‘shar, a native of Balkh, one of the fathers of 
astrology among tho Arabs. He wrote numerous books on all branches 
of astrology, many of which are still extant in the libraries of Europe. 
He lived in Bagdad, was a contemporary of Alkindi, and died a.n. 272, 
at Wasit. Cf. “ Kitéb-alfihrist,” p. tv and notes ; Otto Loth, “ Alkindi 
als Astrolog,” p. 265. In the middle-ages ho was well known aiso in 
Europe as Albumaser, and many of his works have been translated into 
Latin; whilst modern philology has hitherto scarcely taken any notice 
of him. Wherever AlbérQni quotes him, he wi.ges war against him, and, 
to judge by the quotations from his books \vhich our author gives, it 
seems that the literary work of Abi-Ma‘shar does not rest on scientific 
bases. 


p- 29, 1.18. On the star-cycles, cf. J. Narrien, “ Historical account 
of the Origin and Progress of Astronomy,” London, 1833, p. 112. 


p. 29,1. 28 Days of Arjabhas and daya of Arkand. According to 
Reinaud, ‘‘Mémoire sur Inde,” p. 322, the correct form of the former 
name would be Aryabhatia, and the latter would be the Sanskrit luryunu. 
Albérini made a new edition of the Days of Arkand, putting it into 
clearer words and more idiomatic Arahic, since the then existing trans- 
lation was unintelligible, and followed too closely the Sanskrit original, 
vide my “ Finleitung,” p. x1, in the edition of the Arabic text. 


376 ALBIRON?. 


p. 29, 1.81. Mukammed ben Ish&k ben Ustidh Bundidh Alsarakhsi, 
and Abit-alwafa Muhammad ben Muhammad Albisjant. 

The latter was born at Bizjin in the district of Nish&pty, a.u. $28, he 
settled in ‘Irak, a.n. 348, and died $87. Cf. Sédillot, « Prolégoménes,” 
p. 58; “ Kitéb-alfihrist,” p. 283 ; Ibn-Al’athir. ix. 4y, 3. 

The former scholar is not known to me. 


p. 81,1. 15. In Hebrew, “Nebukadnezar.” In the Arabic, t, 8, read 
jedday instead of ltisy (De Gosje, Noeldeks). 


p. 31, 1. 35. Callippus was one of the number, etc. Behind the words 
yi gh (2 (9 there seems to lurk @ gross blunder of the copyista. 


p. 82,1. 16. Zoroester, who belonged to the sect, ete. The passage, 
THVyelt Lhd yd, 4, 2, seems hopelessly corrupt. My translation is 
entirely conjectural (At. pp y%»). 


p. 92, 1.22. Philip the father of Alexander. This is a mistake of the 
author’s. He ought to have said: Philip the brother of Alewander, The 
source of this statement regarding the era of Philippus Arrideus is 
Theon Alexandrinus, Ipéxepos xavdves, ed. Halma, p. 26; cf. L. Tdeler, 
“‘ Handbuch der mathematischen und technischen Chronologie,” ii. 680. 


p. 88, 1.8. Habib ben Bikriz, metropolitan of Mosul, is known as one 
of those scholars who translated Greek books into Arabic at the time of 
the Khalif Alma’min (4.8. 198-218). Cf. “Kitab-alfihrist,” p. 244, 
1,73 p. 248, 1 27; p, 249, 1 4. 


p. 38.118. ’Afhmed ten Sahl. This man of Sasanian origin was a 
Dihkdn (i.e. great landholder) in the district of Marw. He played a 
great rile in the history of his time, and was commander-in-chief to 
several princes of the house of Siman. His history is related by Tbn- 
Alathir, viii. 86; ‘Histoire des Samanides,” par M. Defrémery, Paris, 
1845, p. 134, 


p. 38. 1.28. It was Aegustue who, etc. On the ocigin of the ra 
Augusti, cf. Theon Alexandrinus, Tpdyepo Kavéves, ed, Halma, p. 30, 
1. $2; Tdeler, “Handbuch der mathematischen und technischen Chrono. 
logie,” i. 158 ff. 


p. 38,1 84. Ptolemy corrected, etc. The source of this information is 
Ptolemy, poOyporixy ovvrags, book vii. ch. 4 (ed. Halma, tom. ii. p. 80). 


p. 88, L 44. The prognostics, Jit, are questions relating to the 
decrees of the stars (put pet 5). The books on this subject con- 
tain the astrological answers to all sorts of questions, and the methods by 
which these answers are found. 


ANNOTATIONS, 377 


p- 34, 17. Maimin ben Mihrin, a dealer in cloths and stuffs of 
linen and cotton, was at the head of the administration of tho taxes of 
Northern Mesopotamia, (Aljszira) under the Khalif Omar ben ‘Abd- 
al‘aziz, and died a.m. 117; vide Tbn-Kutaiba, “ Kitib-alma‘irif” ed. Wiis- 
tenfeld, p. 228. 


p. 84,1 26. Alsha‘bi, in ‘Amir ben Sharahil ben ‘Ahd Alsha‘bi, of 
South-Arabian origin, was Lorn in the second year of the reign of ‘Uth- 
min; he waa secretary to several great men of hie time, e.g. to ‘Abdallab 
ben Yasid, the governor of \kifa, for the Khalif Ibn-alzubair, and 
died a.n. 105 or 104; vide Ibn-Kutaiba, “ Kitib-alma‘érif,” p. 229. 


p. 86, 1.10. Reform of the calendar by the Khalif Almu‘ladiad. Cf. 
Tbn-Alathir, vii. p. $25. 

p. 86,114. <Abi-Bakr Alsili, i.e. Muhammad ben Yahya ben ‘Abdal- 
Jah ben Aabbis, most famous as a chess-player in hie time, the com- 
panion of scveral Khalifs, died a.a. 885 or 886, at Basra. In hie Kitid. 
afaurdk ho related the history of the Khalifs, and gave a collection 
of their poems and thoee of other princea and great men. Cf. Ibn- 
Khallikan, ed. Wistenfeld, nr.-659, and “ Kitib-alfihrist,” p. 150, 


p. 86,119. ‘Ubaid-allah ben Yahya ben Khikin was made the Vazir 
of the Khalif Almutawakkil, ax. 236 (Ibn-Alathir, vii. 37), and died 
AH. 268 (los, cit. p. 215). 


p. 86, L 42, Khalid ben ‘Abdallah Alkaeri was made governor of Al‘irik 
by the Khalif Hichim ben ‘Abd-almalik a.a. 105 (Ibn-Alathiy, v. 93), 
and held this office during 15 years, till a.. 120, (Joc. cit. p. 167). CE, 
Tbn-Kutaiba, “ Kitib-alma‘arif,” p. 203. 

p. 87,16. The Barmak family were accused of adhering secretly to 
the religion of Zoroaster, cf. “‘ Kitab-alfihriet,” p. 388, 1. 14. 


p. 87,1. 9. Ibrahim ben Altabbds Alsili, an uncle of the father of 
Abi-Bakr Alsilf (on p. 36, 1. 14), a most famous poet and high official 
of the Khalif in Surra-man-ra‘f, died a.u. 248. Tho family of Silf,a 
family of poets, of eloquent and learned men, of whom several acquired 
@ great fame, descended from s princely house of Hyrcania. According 
to our author, p. 109, 1. 44, the princes of Dahistiin were called Sa). For 
the biography of Ibrahim and the history of his family, vide Ibn-Khalli- 
kin, ur. 10 (ed. Wiistenfeld). 

p. 37,119. These verses of Albuhturt form part of a larger poem in 
the poet’s diwin which oxiats in the Imperial Court-Library at Vienna 
(Mist. 125 £. 298, 294), vide Fliigel’e Catalogue, i. 436. 


p. 38, 1. & ‘Ali ben Yahya wae famous in his time as an astro- 
nomer and poet, and as s friend of several Khalife. He died a.a. 275 at 
Surra-man-ra‘é. Ibn-Khallikin, nr. 479. He was one of a whole family 


378 aLizoni. 


of distinguished poets and scholars who traced their origin hack to 
Yazdagird, the last Sesanian kiug. C£ “ Kit&b-alfihrist,” p. 143. 

p. 39,1.16. On these mythological traditions, cf. I. Krebl, “' Die 
Religion der Vorislamischen Araber,” Leipzig, 1863, p. 83; Almas‘idi, 


“Prairies d’or,” ed. B. de Meynard, iv. 46; Ibn-Alathir, ed. Tornberg, 
it. 30, 


p- 39, 1.88. Band@-Kuraish. In the Arabic, p. 84, 1. 12, read jal 
instead of ct; and p. 34, line 13, read oJ instead of (sys 
(Fleischer). 


p. 89, 1. 84, The following famous battle-days of the ancient Araboe are 
well known to Arab hietorians. For more detailed information I refer to 
the chronicle of Ibn-Alatbir, of which nearly one half of tom. i. 
(p. 320 48.) is dedicated to this subject. Of also Ibn Kutaiba, “ Kitab- 
almafirif,” p, 293; “Arabum Proverbia,” ed. Freytag, tom. iii. 
p. 558 ff. 

The pronunciation of the word Alfad?2 (p. 89, 1. 44) seems doubtful 
Yaktt, iii. 804, mentions Alghadé, a place in the district of the Bani- 
Kjléb, where once a battle took place. Therefore it would perhaps be 
preferable to read “ The day of Alghadd.” 


p. 40, 1.26. Qn thie war of Alfijar, in which Muhammad took part, 
cf. A, Sprenger, “ Das Lebpn und die Lehre des Mohammad,” i. 351, 423, 


p. 40, 1.85, Notwithstanding, we have etated, ote, This passage proves 
that there is a lacuna m the order of the chronological tables, such as 
exhibited by the manuacripte. According to the author, his work con- 
tained alao the tables of the princes of South-Arabia and of Alhira, but 
no exch tables are found in the manuscripts. Their proper place would 
have been between the Szsanians and the Khalifs (after p, 128), bnt the 
table of the Khalifs is lost, too. 

I am inclined to believe that the anthor had ecarcely any other in- 
formation but that of Hamza Alisfahinft (transl. by Gottwaldt, pp. 73 
and 96). The manuscript of the University Library of Leyden proves & 
considerable help for the emendation of Hamza’e work, but more mznu- 
ecripts will be wanted before a reliable and clear text can be made out. 


p. 40,1. 39. For the following report on the antiquities of Chorssmia 
I refer to my treatise, Zur Geschichte und Chronologie von Khewérizm I., 
published in the “Sitzungsberichte der Kais. Academie de Wissen- 
achaften in Wien,” Philosophisch-historieche Clase, 1878, p. 471 ff. 


p. 41,17. On the namo of Afrigh, vide my treatise Conjectur eu Ven- 
didad, i. 84, in “ Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenlindischen Gesell- 
achaft,” xxviii. p. 450. 


ANNOTATIONS. 879 


p.41, 1.26. Pizco by piece. Read \etté instead of lets (text, p. 35, 
1, 16 (Fleischer), 


p. 41, ll. 88, 41. I prefer to read Askéhhwir instead of Azkajawir; 
also p. 42, 1. 26, 


p. 48, 1,24. The chief source of all information of eastern authors 
regarding Alexander is the book of Pseudo-Callisthenes (edited by C. 
Miller, Paris, 1846, Didet). The book has been treated with the same 
liberty both in east and west, and it seems that the eastern transla- 
tions have not lesa differed from each other thar. the various Greek 
manuscripts of the hook. The passage p. 44, I. 80 ff. does not occur 80 
in the Greek original, but something like it, ef. book ii. ch. 20, 
p. 7? The murderer of Darius, p. 44, 1. 8, has a Sasanian name (Nau- 
jushanza), whilst in the original there sre two murderers, Bessus and 
Artabarzanes (ii. 20). That Nebukadnezar is intreduced inte the tale, 
occurs also eleewhere—Mas‘idi, “ Prairies d’or,” ii. 247; Tabari (Zoten- 
berg), i. 516. That Alcxander was originally a son of Darius, is the 
tradition of the Shihnima of Firdausi, vide also Tabari, i. 512; Tbn- 
Alsthir, i. 199,1. Fer more information I refer to Fr. Spiegel, “ Die 
Alexandersage bei den Orientalen,” Leipzig, 1851. 


p- 45, 1.8. Zbn-‘Abd-Alrawék Alfiisi. A man of this name, te Ibn 
‘Abd-alrazzak is mentioned in the history of the Buyide prince Rukn- 
aldaula, by Ibn-al’athir, viii. p. 396, among the events of a.z. 349. 


p- 45, 1.5. Abi-Ishak Ibrahim ben Hilal, the Sabian, was the eecre- 
tary of the Buyide princa ‘Izz-aldaula Bakhtiyar, famous as an eloquent 
writer in prose and verse. He died a.u. 384, or, according to another 
statement, before a.m. 380. Cf.“ Kit&b-alfihrist,” p. 184; Tbn-Khallikan, 
nr, 14; F. Wilken, Mirchor.d’s ‘‘ Geschichte der Sultane aus dem Ge- 
achlechte Bujeh,” Berlin, 1885, p. 105. 

The title of his book (p. 45, 1. 6) read Altdji instead of Altdj. 

On the pedigree of the family of Buwaihi, cf. Ibn-Kutaiba, “ Kitah- 
alma‘arif,” p. 86; Ibn-Alathir, viii. 197; F. Wiistenfeld, Genealogische 
Tabellen T. 20 sud Register, p, 152. Most of the names which occur 
in this pedigree are also found in Sehir-eddin’s “Geschichte von 
Tabaristan, Rnjan und Mazandaran,” ed. Dorn, p. 101, and the whole 
pedigres, loe. cif. p. 175. 


p. 45,1.9. Rena gels instead of ses (text, p. 88, 1. 8). 


p. 45, 1.22. Abai-Muhammsad Albasan ben ‘Ali ben Nana, mentioned 
as the author of a history of the Buyide princes, is not known to me. 


380 ALBinoni. 


p. 46, 1.8. Bead J-b instead of on (text, p. 38, 1.10); and Jv 
instead of ee (p. 38, 1.11). Read datook instead of .o—2 (p 38, |. 13). 


p- 43,1,12. The names of Lab’ and Laythaj (p. 15) are unknown te 
me; porhapa they have some sort of relation with the word Ldhijdz, 
oie), which is the name of ono of the two capitals of Ghildn, cf. Dorn, 
“ Sehir-eddin’s Geschichte von Tabaristan,” etc. Vorwort, p. 11, 
note }. 


p. 47,128. G@hildn. Read Jee! instead of Jet (text, p. 89, 1. 5). 


p. 47, 1.25. Aefdr ben Shirawathi. Under the Khalifate of Almuk- 
tadir (a.u. 295-320) the party of the Alid . tuied to occupy the countrics 
south of the Caspian Sea, Tabaristiin, Dailam, Ghilan and Juyjin, 
fighting against the troops of the Samaniap princes of Khurdsin and 
those of the Khalif. The first Aide whose efforts wera crowned with 
. success was Hasan ben ‘Ali, called Alndsir Afutrush, about aa. 302, 
Soon, however, the generals of the Alide princes, Laila ben Alnu‘man, 
Makin ben Kaki, Asfar ben Shiraweihi, were more enccessful than they 
themselves. The latter, Asfir, who abandoned the party of the Alidee, 
succeeded, a.H. 315, in occupying Tebaristin, and in rendering himeelf 
an independent ruler. He did not long enjoy the fruits of his labours. 
After having made himself thoroughly unpopular, he was killed by his 
generals, at the head of whom was Mardawij, au.316. Mardawij was 
now the ruler of Tabariatén and Jurjan, and tried to extend hia away 
over the neighbouring countries. He was the founder of # dynasty who 
held the supreme power in those countries during one hundred and 
fifty years. He abandoned the party of the Alides, and adopted the 
black colour of the Abbasides. To the Khalif he made himself so 
formidable that he wae invested and proclaimed as the legitimate 
governor of ail the provinces which hie aword had conquered. Cf. 
Weil, ‘Geschichte der Khalifen,” ii. 613-621. A history of this man 
and of his descendants is found in Sehir-eddin’s “Geschichte yon 
Tabaristin, Rujau und Mazandaran,” ed. by Dorn, 1850, on pp. 171-201 
and 322. 

Mardawij was a (ke, de. native of Ghilén (not t+, native of Aljabal 
or Media). The name of hia father ia written ky and vk}, and I have 
net heen abls to make out which form is the correct one. In Sehir- 
eddin’s chronicle, the name is always written jy. 

In the text, 4, 6, read Joqlt instead of stt. Between the words 4, 
and ye* (line 6), there seema to be a lacunxa which I have no meana of 
filling up. This lacuna is the reason why the following worda do net 
offer a clear meaning. It is not clear who was the soz of Wardinshih 
who instigated Mardiwij to free the people from the tyranny of Asfir. 


ANNOTATIONS. 381 
p. 47,129. Khurdsdn, Read glatys, 4, 8, instead of grays. 


The name Furkhwérjirskah may possibly be identical with that name 
which Anéshirwin is said to have had as the governor of Tabaristin in 
the lifetime of his father, Hamza Isfahan, ed. Gottwaldt, “\, 3,4. Cf. 
pf olytyt and as oty4ys in Sehir-eddin’s “ Chronik yon Tabaristan,” ed. 
Dorn, pp. 19, 81, 42; P. de Iagarde, ‘‘ Beitrage zur Baktrischen Lexiko- 
graphic,” p. 50 ff. 


p- 47,1.80, In the text on p. 89, read ltt instead of wllast, 1. 9; 
JhS instead of J4S, 1.18; and AIAN instead of Hat, 1. 19 (Fleischer). 


p. 47, 1.32. The Ispahbad Rustam, the uncle of Shams-alma‘ali is 
also mentioned by Ibn-Al’athir, viii. 506. To a son of this Rustam, 
Marzubin ben Rustam, the Ispahbad of Jiljilin, our author has dedi- 
cated ons of his books, vide my edition of the text, Einleitung, p. x). 
ar, 7, 

The history of the ancestors of the Ispahbad Rustam is related in 
Sehir-eddin’s “ Geschichte von Tabaristan,” ete, ed. Dorn, pp. 201-210, 
270, 822. They aro called “the family of Bawand.” 

In p. 47, Il. 34 and 88, read «yy; instead of yy. Cf. Yikit, * Geo- 
graphisches Worterbuch,” iii. 283. 


p. 48, 1.5. The same pedigree of the houso of Simin is also given 
by Ibn-aVathir, vii. 192, and in the geography of Ibn-Hankal, pp. 344, 
345. 


p. 48, 1.16. The Shéhe of Shirwén. According to Kazwinl, “ Athar- 
albilad,” p. 403, Shirwan was first colonized by Kisri Anashirwin. The 
kings of the country were called yiz~e}. Andéshirwin is said to have 
installed the first governor and prince of Shirwiin, a relative of his 
family. Cf. Dorn, ‘‘ Versuch ciner Geschichte der Shirwinshthe,” p, 12 
and 25, Mas‘tdi, “« Prairies d’or,” ii. 4, makes the Shirwinshéh of his 
time descend from Babrim-Gar. 


p. 48, 1.24. Ubaid-Ailth, etc, founded the empire of tha Fatimide 
dynasty in Kairawin and Egypt, a.m. 296. He pretended te be a 
descendant of ‘Ali ben Ab?-Talib. Cf Ibn-Alathiy, viii. 27; Ibn- 
Kutaiba, “ Kitib-alma‘irif,” p. 57; Weil, “ Geschichte der Chalifen,” ii. 
598, 

That prinee of this dynasty who rulcd at the time of onr author, Abt- 
‘Alt ben Nizir, etc. (p. 48, |. 31) was Khalif of Egypt, aa. 386-411, and 
is better known under the name of Alhikim, cf. Ibn-Alathir, ix. 83, 2; 
82,14; 221, 14. 


882 aupizixi. 


p. 48, 1.41. I fool inclined to suppose that in this pedigree there is 
& lacuna between “4k and gy*y~, that 45k the son of Nosh was ori- 
ginally the end of the frst pedigree, and that the second commenced 
with Alesander ben Barka, eto. This opinion is supported by Mas‘idf, 
*« Prairies d’or,” ii, 248, and Spiegel, “ Alexandersage,” p. 60. However, 
I must state that the pedigree—such as it is given by Albérini—also 
orcure in Mas*‘idi, ii. 298, 294, and Ibn-A?’athir, i. 200, 5-9. If, there- 
fore, there is a lacuna, aa I suppose, it is 2 hinnder of older date, and 
must have ocourred already in the source whence all, Mas‘idi, Albé- 
rinf, and Ibn-al’athir have drawn. 
Some of the names of this pedigree exhibit rather snepicious forme. 
I. sy, perhaps pos EgyptuaP Cf. Ibn-Alathir, i. p. 200, 1. 6. 
VI. (ge. Read .t) Latinus. 
XV. jsodl is 2 corruption of {DY. Genesis, xexvi. 11, 15; vide Ascoli, 
“ Zeitschrift der Dentschen Morgenlandischen Gesellechaft,” 
xv. 143. 


p. 49,L 22. The combination of Dhi.alkarnain with Almundhir ben 
Imvv'alkais, vide Hameu Isfahant, translated by Gottwaldt, p. 82. 


p. 49, 1. 26. ‘Adbdaldth ben Hildi. On this famous juggler, vide 
“Kitéb-alfihriat,” p. 810, and note. 


p. 49,1. 87. On the supposed South.Arahian origin of Dht-alkamain, 
vide Mas‘idi, “ Prairies d'or,” ii 244, 249; A. v. Kremer, “ Siidarabische 
Sage," pp. 70-75; Hamza, tranal. p. 100. 


p. 49, 1. 41. The name Sudaih occurs also in Itn-Hishdm. The life 
of Muhammad, i. 496. It seoms to bo the diminutive of erst "Ashok 
(Ibn-Duraid, “ Kitib-alishtiktk,” p. 41), as Ne‘ain oon is the diminu- 
tiveof’An‘am est according to Ibn-Durnid, loc. cif. p. 86,1. 14, Another 
name of the same root is tlc in Hamza, ed. Gottwaldt, p. 182. 

The spelling of the name Aihammd), 1, 34, is uncertain. 

For the spelling of the name Tan‘wm, vide Ibu-Duraid, loc. eit. p, Big 

ve. 

~'p. 80,14. Fever-water. Read muddy water. Read Wee ‘instead of pam 
(text, p. 41, L 8), and zaad pesll instead of j+3t (toxt, ‘p. 41, 1. 5) (Flei- 
acher), 


p. 60,1. 7. The following reasoning occurs already in Hemen, franal. 
p- 100. 


p 60, 1. 26. Lbn-Khurdddhbih was postmaster in Media, and wrote 
about the middle of the third century of tho Flight (between 240-260). 
Hie geographical work has been edited and translated by B. de Mey- 
nird, Journal Asiatique,” 1866. 


ANNOTATIONS. 383 


p. 51,11. Sawir. This nation ie mentioned hy Byzantiae authors 
under the name of SePrpoi. 


p. 52,124, Abf-Satid ‘Aimmad hen Muhammad, o native of Sijistén, 
is not known to me from any other source. 


p. 63, 1.81. The same names occur in Mas‘idi, iii, 415. These days 
have alao Arabic names (Joc. cit. p. 416, and thia hook, p. 246, 1. 16). 


p. 58, L 34. Read +S} inatead of oat (text, p. 43, 1. 22). 


p. 53,137. Zddawothi ben Shéhownihi, a native of Isfahin, is men- 
tioned in “ Kitab-alfihrist,” p. 245, as one of those who translated Per- 
sian works into Arabic. He is also mentioned on p. 202, 1.7, and p. 207, 
1.11. 


p-54,1.1. Ahd-alfaraj Amad ben Khalaf Alzanjani; “Kitib-alfibvist,” 
p. 284, mentions an Ahmad b. Khalaf among those who made astrono- 
tical and other instruments ; alao mentioned p. 128, L 31. 


p. 54,1,4. Abh-alhasan Adharkhir ben Yazdankhasis is not known 
to nie from any other source; vide p. 107, 1. 40 and p. 204, 1, 14. 
Read [6.3 ert instead of shyt (text, p- 4A, 1. 6). 


p. 84,129. Read gli, instead of Sui, (text, p. 44, 1. 15). 


p. 54,189, Whe reason why the Persians did not like to increase the 
number of days of the year was, according to Maa‘idi, iii. 416, that 
thereby the eatablished sequence of lucky and unlucky days would have 
heen disturbed. 


p. 55, 1.3. The words |. 5-27 do not in the lcast harmonize with the 
preceding, which makes me belicvo that after the word Adhay-Mih thero 
is a gap, although the manuseripts do not indicate it. The explanation 
which is cemmenced ‘n ll. 3, 4, ie continued in 1. 28 ff. 


p- 56,17. Yazdajirc Atliziri ia also mentioned by Yakat, “ Geogra- 
phiachea Wérterbuch,” iv. 970. Yakdt may have drawn hia information 
from this book. 


p. 56, 1. 22. As these names, the acanty remuants of a long-loet 
Eranian dialect, are of considerable philological interest, 1 shall add the 
retdinga of the Canon Maaudicua of Albérint according to two manu- 
scripts, MS. Elliot (now the property of the British Museum, dated 


384 ALBIRONT. 


Bagdad, a.u. 570, Rabi ¥.), and MS. Berlin (tha property of the Royal 
Library, aco. ms. 10, 811, or MSS. Orr. 8°. 275). 


MS. Elliot, £ 14a, MS. Berlin. 
dyes Opayt 
Cad wey 
o- vu 
dle Jy 

Yarleat fulal 
ote ots 
ait gk 

és & 5 
Ess él 
sey Mey 
a vy 


‘Whoever wants to explain thess names will also have to consult tbe 
six manuscripts of the Kitdb-altafhim of our anthor, and the most ancient 
copy of the Canon Masudicus in the Bodleian Library. 

In this hook Albérini does not mention the months of the Armenians, 
but I have found them in a copy of the “ Kitéb-altafhim” (MS. of the 
Bodleian Library) in the following form (p. 165): 

ctrl coy sta cay? Lop (Tead eodytlS) alts) Whar elyt sles (1) 
ws Cldibe (read SW \o) erduyy> (MIB. . . oyy2) 

Cf. E. Dulavrier, “Récherches sur la chronologie Armenienne,” 
p. 2 


p. 52,117. I am sorry to state that there are no tables of these 
Chorasmian names in the Canon Masudicus, nor in the ‘ Kitib- 
altafhim.” 

Tha form qt (p. 57, 1.2) reminds one of the Cappadocian name 
Ocpor, vide Bonfey und Stern, ‘Ueber dio Monatsnamen einiger alter 
Volker,” Berlin, 1886, pp. 110-1183. 

The names 559 (name of the 8th, 15th, and 28rd days) is, like the 
Persian Dai, to be retraced to Dadivdo (Benfsy and Stern, id. pp. 109, 
110). 

The corresponding Sogdian name (p, 56) is written ev, which is, 
perhaps, a metathesis for ¢»J, which would be equal to Dathushé, the 
genitive of Dadivgo, and would resemble the Cappadocian Aafoura (Ben- 
fey und Stern, 1. p. 79). 

The reader will casily recognize the relationship hetween the Sogdian 
and Chorasmian names of the days of ibe month and tho Persian 
nawes; this is more diffcult in the case of some of the names of the 
months. 


ANNOTATIONS. 385 


p. 58,110. And relied, ete. Read yyyx instead of cylye (text, p. 48, 
1, 14). 


p- 58,1.16. Dai, vide note ad p. 57,1. 17. 


p. 58,1, 88, It is not known that the Egyptians called the singlo 
days of the month by special names. 


p. 59, 1.8. On the names of tho Egyptian months, their forms and 
meanings, vide R. Lepsius, “ Chronologie der Acgypter,’ pp. 134-142. 


p. 59,1. 22. The smal month. The Coptic name for the Epagomens 
is p abot x kouji, “the small month,” ef. RB. Lepsius, “ Chronologio 
der Aegypter,” p. 145; and this book, p. 137, 1. 22. On the Egyptian 
names of the 5 Epagomens, cf. BR. Lepsius, loc. cit, pp. 146, 147. 


p, 59, 1.25, bwt. It seems, one must read this word bt, since the 


Coptic word for leap-year is TATOKT , i.e. "Emaxrj, as Mr. L. Stern 


kindly informed me. In that case the author was wrong in translating 
the word by Sle ie. signum. 


p. 59, L 26. Abi-alfabbis Alamuli, the author of a book on the 
Kibla, is montioned by Haji Kholifa, iii, p. 236. His full name is Abi- 
al‘abbas “Ahmad b. Abi-’Abmad Altabari Alimuli, known as [bn-alkiigs, 
and he died a.n. 335. 

The months which this author ascribes to the People of the Weat 
aro our names of months in forms which can hardly be traced back 
to a Latin source (ancient Spanish ?). I suppose that by the People 
of the West he means the inhabitants of Spain. 


p. 60, 1 21, Kitab-ma’khod-almawékit. This book is not known 
to me, 


p. 61,1.1. Twenty-four houre are = 86,460 seconds, which, divided 
by 729, givo a quotient of 118223. 


p- 61, 1.18. Read piswlt instead of pial (text, p. 51, 1. 17). 


p. 61,1. 45. Thabit ben Kurra was born 4.8. 221 and died 288; vide 
“ Kitab-alfihrist,” p. 272, and notes. On his astronomical theories, vide 
Delambre, “ Histoire do l’astronomie du moyen age,” p. 73. 

On the iamily of the Bani-Misi vide * Kitab-alfibrist,” p. 271. Mu- 
hammad died a.z. 259. 


vr. 62,116. Lhe Hebrews and all the Jews. The word 'Ibrini= Hebrew, 
was 4 learned name, mown only to scholara; it meant that people of 
26 


356 aubinénf. 


antiquity who spoke the Hebrew tongue and who lived in Syria under 
the law of Moses. Jew is @ popular name which means the descen- 
dants of that people, who no lenger live in Syria, but are scattered al) 


over the world, who no longer apexk Hebrew, but who still live under the 
law of Moses. 


p. 62, 1.18 The names of tho months of the Jews occur also in 
Assyrian, cf. E. Norris, * Assyrian Dictionary,” p. 50. 

Pari of the following chapter bas been edited by 8, de Sacy, “ Chreato- 
suathie Arabe,” i. p. 44 (taken from Almagrizi). 


p. 62, 1.40. “ Remember the day,’ etc. This quotation is an extract 
from Exodus xiii. 8, 4 (Deut. xvi. 1). The words in that month when the 
treca blossom are the rendermg of the Hebrew ANH Uo. The 
month ’Abib has always been identified with Nisin by the whole exege- 


tical tradition of both Jews and Christians, but I do not see for what 
reason, 


p. 68,115. This view, that Adhfr IZ. ia the leap-month, waa held by 
the Kareeana, according to Eliah ben Mose in Selden, “ Dissertatio de 
civili anno Judaico,” cap. v. p. 166 OI WR WH PI. VA). 


p. 63, 1. 81. On the invention of the Octaeteris by Cleostratos of 
Tenedos (about 500 B.c.) vide Ideler, “ Handbuch der mathematischen 
und technischen Chronologie,” ii. 605. 

The cycle of 19 years is the cycle of Meton, invented about 432 z.c., 
vide Tdeler, loc, cit. 1. 297 ff, 

The eycle of 76 years is the improvement of the Metonian cycle by 
Callippus of Cyzicus (about 3380 B.c.), Ideler, loc. cit. i. 299, 344. 

The cycle of 95 years (5x19) has been used by Cyrillus for the com- 
pnatation of Easter, vide Ideler, lac. cié. p. 259. 

The cycle of 532 (=19x28) was invented by the Egyptian monk 
Anianus, vide Ldeler, loc, cit. pp. 277, 451. 


Pp. 63, 1.87. In the author’s statement regarding the 4th cycle of 95 
years there is a mistake: we must read 1,175 months instead of 1,176 
montha, 

The synodical month or one lunation is=29 d. 12h. 793 H. 

1,176 lunatione=34,727 d. 23h. 528 H=900,149,208 H. 

If we divide this sum by the length of the solar year, tc. 865 a. 
#22; b.=9,467,190 H, we get as quotient 95 (years), and a remainder of 
29d. 13h. 438 H, ¢e: 1 lumation plus 725 H., i.e one lunation too 
much, 


Tf we reckon 1,175 lunations, we get as the remainder 725 H., and 


ANNOTATIONS, 


387 


this result is correct, becauso it is five times the remvinder of the 
eyole of 19 years, of which this cycle is a five times multiplication. 


95 years = 
1,175 lunationa = 
85 leap-months = 


725 H.remainder= 


This remainder representa the difference 


5x19 
5x 285 
5x? 

5x 145 


hetween the rotations of the 


gun and the moon at the end of the cycle. 


p. 64,1. 8. Halak, as I have written, according to the Arabic, is the 
Hobrew word abn. which in ths Canon Masndicus is sometimes rendered 
by ke. Of the still smaller division of time, of the D°YI} (on Riga‘ 
=76 Halak), I have not found any trace in the works of Albérani. 

For the convenience of these who want to examine the following 
computations, I give a comparison between the Halaks and the other 
measures of time: 


L lhow =1,080H. 
1 minute= 18 H. 
1%. = 3H. 
1] = win #. 
1™ = = ysto0 Hh. 
1%) = s5dr00 H 


IL 1 Halak = a's hour. 


1H. =; minute. 
1H. = 23 seconds. 
1H. = 200m. 
1H. = 12,000 19. 


1H. = 720,000 7 
II. 1,080 Halaks= 1 hour. 

1 Halak = yoyo h. 

1 Régat = gatas h. 

In Jewish chronology there occur two kinds of years, the Julian year 
(in the calculation of R. Samuel), and a scientific year dcrived from 
the researehes of Hipparchus, which is the basis of the calculation of 
RB. ’Adda har ’Ahaba. 

The year which Albérini mentions, consisting of 865 d. 53221 h., is 
the year of RB. “Addi, equal te 


3865 ad. 5h. 997 H, 48 Rég, 


Cf. Lazarus Bendavid, * Zur Berechnung und Geschichte des Jidischen 
Kalendera,” Bertin, 1817, p. 32. 
Regarding the origin of this year there cannot be any doubt. The 


$88 ALBIRONG, 


Jewish chronelogists found it by dividing by 19 the Enneadecateris of 
Meton, which consiate of 285 Hipparchies) synodical months (i.e. 6,989 a. 
16h. 595 H.). 

Tt will not be superfluous for tho valuation of the following calcu- 
lations to point out the difference between tho ancient Greek astrono- 
mera and the Jewish Rabbis who constructed the Jewish calendar. 

The elements for the comparison of the rotations of aun and moon 
are two measures: that of the length of the synodical month and that 
of the length of the solar year. When Meton and Callippus con. 
stracted their oyclea, these two measures had not yet been defined 
with a great degree of accuracy. Hence the deficiencies of their cycles. 

Centuries later, when the sagacity of Hipparchus had defincd these 
two measures in such a way that modern astronomy has found very 
little to correct, comparisons hetween the rotations of sun and moon 
could be carried out with a much higher degree of accuracy. Thereby 
the Jewish chronolegista were much better situated than Mcten and 
Callippus, and the following calculations prove that they availed them- 
eslvea of this advantage. 


p. 64, 1. 10, Computation of the Octaoteris and Enneadecateris. 
I. Octaeteris. 


The ancisnt Greeka counted the solar year as 365} day. (i.e. too 


long), and the synodical menth as 294 daya (é.e. too short). The Jews 
counted — 


the solar year as 365 d. 52781 h. 
and the aynodical menth as 29 a. 12 bh. 783 H. 


The 99 lunations of the Octaeteris, each lunation at 29 d. 12 h. 783 H., 
give the aum of— 


2,928 d. 12h. 747 H. 
which ia equal te the sum of— 
75,777,867 H. 


If we divide this sum by the length of the solar year, de. 365 d. 
53434 b.==9,467,190 H., we get as quotient 8 (years) and a remainder 
of— 

14.18 h, 387 H. 


Thia would he the difference between the rotetiens of the eun and 
moon at the end of the first Octaeteris, i.e. the moon reached the end 
of her 99th rotation, when the sun had atill to march during 1 d. 
13 h. 387 H., till he reached the end of his 8th rotation. 

According to the calculations of the ancient Greeks, thie difference 


ANNOTATIONS, 889 


was less, viz. 12 days. Cf. L. Idotcr, “Handbuch der mathe.ustischen 
und technischen Chronologie,” i. p. 294 if. 

Ag the author says, 387 Halaks do not correspond to 23 h. with mathe- 
matical accuracy (p. 64, I. 24, 25). There ie a differenco of +4, b., for 


ids hk. = tis h, 
whilet 
Mh = th 


IL Bnzxeadecateris. 


Meton discovered that 235 synodica) monthe pretty nearly correspond 
to 19 solar years. In constructing his cycle of 19 years, he reckoned 
the solar year at 365,% d., i.e. by 3’; d. longer than it had heen reckoned 
in the Octaeteris (a mistake which afterwards Callippns strove to 
retriovo). More correct was tho following Jewish calculation with Hip- 
parchic measures : 

235 lunations, each = 29 d. 12 h. 793 H., givo tho sum of— 


6,999 4. 16,483, h. = 179,876,755 H. 
H we divide thie sum of Halaks by tle length of the solar year of— 
865 d. 53722. h. = 9,467,190 H., 


we got as quotient 19 (years), and a remainder of only 145 H. 

According to this computation, the difference between the rotations 
of aun and moon at the end of the first Enneadecateris would not be 
more than 145 H.,, or 4% h., te. a littlo more than 3 h., or than yh; d., 
whilst, according to Callippns, this difference was greater, vis. }2 d. 
=}d. 

This reform of the Metonic Enneadecateris enahled the Jews to 
dispense with the 76 years cycle of Callippus, which he constructed of 
four-timee the Enneadecateria with the omiasion of one day. The 
Jewish calculation is more correct than that of Callippus, who reckoned 
the solar year too long. 


p 64, 1. 38. On the meaning of the word sy17My cf. an interesting 
chapter in the Way HD of Abraham Bar Chyiah, edited by H. 
Filipowski, London, 1851, book ii, ch. iv. (PRATT BW wa pA>)- 

At the beginning of this exposition (p. 64, 1.31, text, p. 55, 1. 8) there 
seems to he a lacuna, It is not likely that the author should intro- 
duce a technical foreign work (like Mahzor) without having previouz’y 
explained what it means (and this is not the case). 


p. 65. The difference of the Ordines intercalationis ia caused and 
accounted for by the difference of the heginning of the Jewish Ara 
Mundi. 


890 aBtront. 


The world was created at the time of the vernal equinox, e. the 
Tekifat-Nisin. But the year as reckoned by the Jewish chronologiste 
does not commence at the time of the vernal equinox, bnt at that of 
the antunmal equinox, i.e. the Tekdfat-Tishri. Now, the question 
whence to begin the firat year of the Ze Mundi, has been answered 
in various ways. Some commence with the vernal equinox preceding 
the creation of the world, others with the first vernal equinox following 
after tho creation of the world. Some counted the year in the middle of 
which the creation took place as the first, others counted the following 
year as the jirst year of the jiret Enneadecateris. Cf. "SAY 9D 
of Abraham bar Cbyiah, iii. 7, p. 96. In conformity with this diffe- 
rence also the order of the leap-yeara within the Enneadecateris has 
been fixed differontly, 

The Ordo intercalationis SQN, which reckons tho sccond (complete) 
year of the creation as the first year of the first Bnneadecateris, 
occors also in the valuable Teshibhd (Responsum) of BR. Hai Gaén 
ben Sheriri, a contemporary of the author, vide Abraham bar Chyish, 
p. 97, L 86. 

The Ordo intercalationis YUNTMNI which has become canonical since 
and through Maimonides, is not mentioned by Albérint. 

The three Ordines intercalationis which the anthor has united in the 
circular figure, are constructed upon this principle: 

Of the seven intervals between each two leap-yeara, there axe five 
intervals each of 2 years, and two intervals each of 1 year. 


p. 66, 1.7. The solar cycle (mares “WirT) of 28 yeare consista of 
Julian yeare of 865) days. At the end of this cycle time returns to the 
same day of the week. Cf. L. Ideler, ‘‘ Handbuch,” ete., i. 72. 


p. 66,1. 28. Of the five Dehiyydtk of the Jewish calendar YIN "IN - 
TR PY Awa wHpriws which are certain rules ordering a date, eg. 
New-year’s-day, to be transferred from one week-day to another, our 
author mentions only the first one, viz. YIN, ie. the rule that New- 
year’a-day can never be a Sunday or 2 Wedneeday or a Friday. 

The words that Paseover by which the beginning of Nisdn is requloted I 
understand in this way, that Passover, ie. the 15th Nisin, and the Ist 
Nisin always fall on the same week-day. 

The rule {TH is connected with the rule {79 i.e. that Passover shall 
never fall on a Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, in the following way: 

Passover must be the 168rd day from the end of the year. The divi- 
sion of 168 by 7 gives the remainder of 2. 

If New-year’s-day wero a Sunday, the last day of the preceding year 
would be a Saturday, and the 163rd day from the end would be a 
Friday. 

Té New-year's-day were a Wednesday, the 168rd day from the end 
would be a Afonday. 


ANNOTATIONS. 391 


If New-year's-day wero a Friday, the 168rd day from the end would 
be a Wednesday. Ci. Lewisohn, “Geschichte und System dos Jiidiechen 
Kalenderwosens,” Leipzig, 1856, § 92, § 127. 

On the correspondence betweon the four days that can be New.-year’a. 
days (called OMYW MYATN) and Pascover, cf. Abraham bar Chyiah, 
ii, ch. 9. 


p. 6?, I. 28, 85. I should prefar to read Jleqsl ingtead of (jeqdt and 
wg paleo ob inetoad of (50 palem «p= (text, p. 57, 1, 18 and 21). 


p. 68,1.4. On the calculation of the arc of vision ANIM nip he. 
that part of the moon’s rotation between conjunction and the moment 
of her becoming visible at come place, vide Selden, “‘Dissertatio de 
anno civili Judaico,” cap. xili.; Lazarus Bendavid, “ Zur Geschichte und 
Berechnung dee Jidischon Kalenders,” § 86. 

The mean motion of the moon is called in Hebrow §{uynn qorM) the 
seat motion "MN Porn, vide Maimonides, warm wr yp, vil; xi,15. 


p. 68, 1.82. Périah ey is a Biblical namo, vide 1 Kings iv. 17. 


p. 68, 1,85. If the M'liditee commenced the month with themoment of 
the conjunction, they differed from the Rabbanites in this, that tha latter 
mado the beginning of the month (¢.g. the heginning of tho firet munth 
or Now-year’s-day) depend not alone upon conjunction, but also upon 
certain ether conditioner, eg. the condition py (Lezarue Bendavid, § 36). 
Th» Rabbanites tried in everything to assimilate their calendar, based 
npon the astronomical determination of conjunctien, to the more ancient 
calendar which had been based npon the observation of New Moon. The 
conservative tendency of this reform of the Jewish calendar is pointed 
out by A. Schwarz, “Der Jiidischo Kalender,” pp. 59-61. Cf. also 
Abreham bar Chyiah Way “DE p. 68, L. 6; p.69, 2 21 


p. 68, 1.86, Bead s\;33 instead of ofa} as plural of «ss (text, p. 58, 
117). 

p- 69, 1.5. ‘Andn, the founder of the great echism in the Jewish 
world, lived in Palestino in the secend half of the 8th century. For his 
history, vide Graetz, “Geschichte der Juden,” ii. ed., tom. v. p. 174; for 
‘Anfin’s reform of the calender, #. p, 454, 

The pedigree of ‘Ani has been the subject ef much discussion, vide 
Graetz, i. pp. 417, 418, and J. Triglandii, “Notitia Karaecorum,” Ham- 
burg, 1714, p. 46. 


p. 69, 1. 25. Read Sa} instrad of Sef (toxt, p. 59, 1. 9). 


p- 70,1.16. Readd instead of § (test, p. 60, 1. 4, after cst= ysl’). 


892 atptroni. 


p. 72, 1. 36. Temd'it ben ‘Abbdd, born a.n. 836, was Vazir to tho 
Buyide princes Mu’ayyid-aldaula, and afterwards to Fakbraldaula. Ho 
died a.u. 885. Cf. Ibn-AVathir, ix. p. 77. The same man is quoted by 
Albérint aa the Sahib, p. 94,1.19. On this title, vide Hammer,“ Lander- 
vorwaltung unter dem Khalifat,”? pp. 84, 35; “ Abulfedes Annales Mos- 
lemici,” ii, p. 586. 


p. 74, 1.7. The farewell pilgrimages ie described by A. Sprenger, ‘Leben 
und Lehre des Mohammad,” iii. p. 515 ff. On Muhammad’s prohibiting 
intercalation, ots., %. p. 534 ff. 


Boad de instead of 2m (tort, p. 63, 11.1, 8), Fleischer.) 


p. 74,115. Ibn-Daraid, a famous philologist of the school of Bagra, 
died a.x. 321, in Bagdad. Cf. G. Fligel, “ Grammatische Schulen der 
Araber,” p. 101. 


p. 74,1. 25. Abé-Sahl ‘Ish ben Yahya Almasibi, a Christian physician, 
was & contemporary of Albérini, who hved at tbe court of ‘Alf beu 
Me’min and Me’min ben Mo'min, princes of Khwirizm. The year 
of his death is not known; probably he died bstween a.z. 400-403. 
Cpr. Wistenfeld, ‘Geschichte der Arabischen Aerzte und Naturfor- 
scher,” p. 59, or. 118. 


p. 75, 1.26, Read \o instead of Wt (text, p. 64, 1. 6, att 52! 
tore). 


p. 76,1. 36. Abi-‘Abdallah Ja‘far hen Muhammad Alsfdik is one of 
the twelve Imims of the Shi‘a. He was born a.n. 80, and died a.z. 
146. On the sect who derived their name from him, vide Bhabristini, 
ed. Cureton, p. 124. Cf. also Wistenfeld, “Geschichte der Armbischon 
Aerzto und Naturforscher,” nr. 24. 


p. 77,14 This tradition occure in Bukhéri, “ Recueil des traditions 
Mahométanes,” ed. L. Krehl, i, p. 474. The other traditions to which 
the author refers in the course of his discussion (p. 78) are also men- 
tioned by Bukhéri, i. 476 ff. Cf. the Muwetfa’ of Malik ben *Anas, ed. 
Balak, ii. chap. 84. 


p. 77,1. 22, Read SM, instead of By, (text, p. 65, 1. 14), and 3} 
instead of \st (p. 65, 1.15) Fleischer.) 
p. 80,L 4. Read G&F, instead of (hs, (teat, p. 67, L 17). 


p. 80,15. The same fact is related by Ibn-Al’athty, vi. p. 3. In con- 
sequence of his killing ‘Abd-alkarim, the governor of Kéfs, Muhammad 
was removed from his office az. 185 (or 153). The story shows that the 


ANNOTATIONS. : 898 


falsifieation of tradition has at cortaiu times been practised whelesale in 
the Muslim world. Ibn.’abi-al'auja, alse mentioned in “Kitéb-alfihrist,” 
Pp» $38, L 9. 


p. 80, 1.27. Read and its origin inatend of and of tts original, otc. 
Read Alely inatend of alet, (text, p. 68, 1.4). (Fleischer.) 


p. 80, 1. $4. Read wheye instead of whey (text, p. 68, 1.6), and 
a5 ow Rath — cecaally (text, p. 68, ll 9, 10), as in the manuscripts. 


p. 82, col.1. Kuba was the second largest town of Farghiina, not far 
from Shagh. It is described by Ibn-Haukal, p. 394; Yakit, iv. 24. 

The word e¥\s2 (<br) I have not been able to explain hitherto. 
Perhaps the word bears seme relation to \,le ie. Bukhiira. 


p- 82, coll. 1,8. Ths names of col. 1 are in usc among the eastern 
Torks (of Kashghar and Yarkaud), vide R. B. Shaw, “ A Sketch of the 
Turki Language as spoken in Eastern Turkistan,” Lahore, 1875; 
p. 77; J. Grave, “ Epoch celebriores,” London, 1650, p. 5. 

The names of col. 8 seem te bs in disorder; they mean; The Great 
Month, the Small Month, the First Month, the Second Month, the 
Sisth Month, the Fifth Month, the Eighth Menth, the Ninth Menth, 
the Tenth Month, the Fourth Month, the Third Month, the Seventh 
Month. Cé£. Shaw, “Sketch,” etc. p. 75. 

Both columns are of particular interest in eo far as they exhibit the 
moet ancient specimen of the Turkish language. 


p- 82, col. 5. Octombrius. Perhaps it weuld be better to read 
Octembrius, in conformity with Octembre, whieh occurs in Provencal 
beside Octobre, vide Reynouard, “ Lexique Roman ou dictionnaire de la 
langue des trowbadours,” tom vi. p. 390. 


p. 86,113. The 210 years for the stay of the Jews in Egypt are found 
in this way: 
Interval between the birth ef Abraham and that of 


Moses - - é <i Fs - 420 ycars. 
Moses wae 80 years of age when he left Egypt - 80 ,, 
Interval hetween the birth of Abraham and the 
Exodus - : - - - 500 ;; 
Forther: 
Abraham was 100 years of age when Isaak wasborn 100 ,, 
Isaak wes 60 years of age when Jacob was bern - 60 ,, 


Jacob entered Egypt when he wae 130 years of age 130 ,, 


Interval :between the hirth of Abraham and 
Jacob’s entering Egypt - . - 290 » 
27 


894 ALBIRGNi. 


Now, the difference between the two numbers (500—290), ie. 210 
years, representa the time during which the Jews stayed in Egypt. 


p. 87,111. Read &¥ instead of 450 (text, p. 75,1. 1). (Fleischer) 


p. 67, 1.18. The Séder-Olém, i.e. Ordo Mundi, is a well known He- 
brew book on the Chronology of Jewish history, carrying it down as 
far as 22 years after the destruction of the Temple by Titus. It is the 
soo now 1D to which our author refers, not the NAY poy A"1D- 
Cf. “ Chronicon Hebrworum Majus et Minus,” ed. Joh. Meyer, Am. 
stelodami, 1699. I am, however, bound to state ,that some of the 
numbers which Albérini quotes on the authority of this beok are not 
found in—or do not agree with—the text as given in the edition of 
Meyer. 


pp. 88, 89. In these tables there are three blundera in the addition. 

The last thres numbers in the addition of the years of the Séder- 
‘Olam ought to be 460, 500, 503 (on p. 88); and in the same column 
on p. 89 the eleven last numbers of the addition ought to be: 761, 
810, 865, 867, 898, 909, 920, 990, 1080, 1563, 2163. 


p. 90, 1.18. On Kishan, vide Judges, iii. 8, 10. 


p. 90, 1. 35. Hashwiyya and Dahriyya. The Hashwiyya or Hasha- 
wiyya are a heterodox sect of Muslim philosophera who adhere to an 
exoterio interpretation of the divine revelation, and consider God as a 
bodily being, vide “ Dictionary of Technical Terms,” i. p. 396. 

The word Dakr seems nearly to correspond to the Zrvdnem alerenen 
(“ endlesg time”) of tho Avasté. Ths Dahriyya are a heathenish school 
of philosophers who believe the Dakr (time) to be eterna), and who trace 
everything te the Dahr as last cause, vide “Dictionary of Technical 
Terms,” i. p. 480. 


p. 90, 1.44. In the following the author attacks ’Abh-Ma‘shar, the 
author of the hook De vativitatibus (p. 92,1. 2; p. 91, 1. 31; p. 94,1 44; 
p. 96,11). Cf. note ad p, 29, L 4. 

The subject of the discussion is the Dona astrorum (vide Delambre, 
* Histoire de l’estronomie ancienne,” ii. 546), i.e. the question how long 
a man may live, if at ihe moment of his birth the planets occupy such 
places and stand in such relations to each other as are considered the 
most favourable. 

For a detailed explication of the astrological terms which occur in the 
following, and all of which are of Greek origin, I refer to the Dictionary 
of the Technical Terms used in the Sciences of the Musalmans, Calcutta, 
1862. 

The Materfamilias (p45) is the indicium corporis, the Paterfumiliaa, 
the indicium anima (p. 90, 1. 45). 


ANNOTATIONS. 395 


The house of the Sun is Leo, his altifudo is the 19th degree of Aries. 

Cardines are four points of the ecliptic: 

I. Cardo horescopi, or Cardo primus, that point whieh rises in the 
east at the moment of the birth. 
Il. Cardo cccastis or Cardo septimus, that point which at the same 

: moment sets in the west. 

Tl. Cardocoeli or Cardo decimus, the point between the preceding two 

points, but above the earth. 

IV. Cardo terre or Cardo quartus, tho point between the points I. and 

IL, but under the earth. Cf,“ Dictionary of Technical Terms,” 
1. 465. 

In @ concordant masculine quarter, By quarier I understand the divi- 
sion of the signs of the Zodiac into four trigones, the trigonwm ignenm, 
trigonum terrewn, ete., which are cither masculine or feminine. Cf. 
M. Thiemann, “ Grundzige der Astronomie und Astrologie der Alten,” 
pp. 66, 67. 

The term concordant is applied to ary two places of the ecliptic which 
lie at equal distances from one of the two equinoctial points so as to 
form with each other the constellations called Tesdis or Tathlith or Mu- 
kéhale, Cf. Dictionary of Technical Terms,” ii. 1392, 2. v. bus, 


p-91, 1. 10. Have no aspect. The word bis is the contrary of ys. 
There are five aspects : : 

Tasdis, i.e. the planets are distant from each other by 60 degrees. 

Tarbi', i.e. the distanco between them is 90 degrees. 

Tathlith, i.e. the distance between them is 120 degrees. 

Mukébala, ie. the distance between them is 180 degrees. 

Fetvkbdl, is the Mukibala of Sun and Moon. Any other relation he- 
tween two planeta is called Suki {<.e. falling out). 

C£. Dictionary of Technical Terms,” ii. 1985, s.v. 4. 


p. 91,118. The Caput Draconis is that point of the ecliptic which a 
planet cuts when moving northward. If sun and moon meet at this 
point in the same zodiacal sign and degree, they are said to stand within 
the dpos éxAcurnxot (Ptolemy, “ Almagest,” vi. cap. 5; Umites ecliptiques, 
vide Delambre, “Histoire de ’astronomie ancieune,” ii. 226), and an 
oclipse takes place. Every eclipse is considered as unlucky. 


p. 91, 1. 16." The elements of this sum (215 years) are not quite clear. 
If tho Sun givos 120 and 80 years, Moon, Yenus, and Jupiter, 25, 8 and 
12 years, we get the sun of 195 years. Wheuco the astrologers derive ths 
missing 20 years is not stated. They are hardly to he considered as a 
gift of Saturn or Mars, sincs thoy arc unlucky stars; perhaps they are 
traced to tho influence of Mercury. One may suppose that there ia 
somewhere a lacuna in the text. 


396 ALBtrong. 


p. 91, 1. 81 Read 338 Slat ody (o poibul instead of es, J 
pulsat ob dit Bladt (toxt, p 78, 1. 19). 


p. 91, 1.84 The middle conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter is 240 
years, the siner conjunction 20 years, the major cc junction 960 
years. Cf. O. Loth, “ Al-Kindf ala Astrolog in Morgenlindischo For- 
achungen,” Leipzig, 1875, p. 268. 


p-98,L10. Tdsdn was 'Amir.al’umari in Baghdid a.n. 881-894, at 
the time of the Khalif Almuttaks, whose eyes he put out. Ho was 
of Turkish origin, and commander of the Turkish troops who held 
Baghdad and some other parts of central Mesopotamia. 


p- 98,115. Ghurdr-aldauda. Read ‘In-aldaula. Mu'izz-aldauls dicd 
4H. 356, and Tzz-aldaula died a.m. 867, both princes of the family of 
Buwaihi. 

p. 93, L 28. Nésir-aldenla, prince of Mogul aud the north of Meso- 
potamin, of the family of Hamdin, died a.z. 858. 


o Ba ot 


p. 93,1, 42, Read es instead of gS (text, p. 82,1. 7), Saget GQ 
(p. 81, 1. 9), and nil, instead of p33 (p. 81, 1.12). (Fleissher.) 


p. 94,1.19. §8é%. The author means "Iema‘il ben ‘Abbad, Vazir of 
the Bnyide prince Fakhr-aldanla. Vide note ad p. 72,1. 86. The time 
during which Fakhr-aldaula held the country of Jurjan under his sway 
WS 4.8. 872-388. 


p- 94, 1. 40. /4bd Sa'td Shédhan is not known to me from other 
sources, A man called Shaédhfn is montioned by Yakft, i p. 204, 
1, 20, and Hajt Khaltfa, v. p. 108. 


p. 95, 1. 2, According to “ Dictionary of Technical Terms,” i. p. 568, 
retrograde motion is away motion which does not, like that of tho 
planets, proceed conformably with the order of the zodiacal eigns, 

The ecliptic is divided into twelva equal parts, called houses. Tho 
12th, 2nd, 6th, and 8th houses are called Domus cadentes, 


p. 95, 1, 22. 'Aba.‘Isma. A man of this name was general to tho 
Khalif Alhad{, and was killed by Harfin Alrashid a.z. 170. Cf. Ibn- 
Alathir, vi. p. 74. Tho epithet Sih algagér I cannot explain. 

p. 96, 1. 12. Read Jeo inetond of Jo% (toxt, p. 82, 1. 21), und 
weatey inatead of Yep teo (p. 83, 1. 1). 

p. 96, 1,25. Jamélabadiva, a town in Indio, is not known to me; 
the word can ba read in various ways, 


ANNOTATIONS, 397 


p. 96, 1. 48. Abf-‘Abdallth Alhusain, ote. Alnatili, a uativa of 
Natila, 2 town in Tabsristin, is sometimes mentioned as the teacher of 
*Abd-‘Ali ben Sina. He lived in Bukhara, and afterwards at tbe court 
of the prince Ma’min ben Muhammad of Khwarizm. Cf. ‘my edition 
of ths toxt, “ Hinleitaung,” p.xxziv. 


p- 98, |. ‘: Covering. Read sb instead of 3b (text, p. 84, 1. 10). 
(Fleischer. 


p- 98, 1. 22, 2x some book, Albérimi does not mention the author of 
the work whence hs took the chrenological tables of the kings of Assyria; 
in any case it must have been derived from the “Chronivon ” of Euse- 
hius. Cf. A.- Schoene, “ Eusebii Chronicorum libri duo, Berolini, 1866 
aud 1875”’’; vol. i. p. 63, and vol. ii. p. 11 ff. 


p- 100, 1. 24 Another table of successors of Niwrod is given by 
Mas‘édi, “ Prairies d’or,” pp. 96-100. 
A. similar table is also found in Albérini’s Canon Mas‘idicus (MS. 
Elliot, fol. 28a). 
Yoars of reign. Anni Adami. 


Nimrod - - . - 59 2951 
Interval after tho confusion of 

languages and the destruction 

of the tower - - 7 43 2994. 
uy + : - - 88 3079 
vue + - - - 272 3151 
oye - * : - 42 3193 
u, - - - - 18 8211 
Interval - - - - 7 3218 


Then follow the Assyrian kings, Belos, Ninos, ete. 


p- 101. Table of the Kings of the Chaldeans. It is the table of Pta- 
lemy. Cf. “Chronologie de Ptolemée,” par l’abh¢ Halma, Paris, 1819, 
2do Partie, pp. 3, 4,aud “ Gcorgius Syncellusg,” cd, Dindorf, Bonn, 1839, 
p. 890 ff. 


p- 102. This tablo of kings of Egypt begins with the 20th dynasty 
of Manetho. Cf. “ Eusebii Chronicorum libri duo,” vol. i. p. 145; vol. ii, 
p- 62. 


p- 103, 1. 13. This tablo of Ptolemmang is based upon that of 
Ptolemy. “Chronologio de Ptolemée,” pur Halma, 2do Partie, p. 4. In 
1. 32 read: Cloopatra, ttll the time when Gajua Julius obtained anpreme 
power in Homo, Read dey instond of Sry} (text, p. 92, 1. 15). 


398 atsiztst. 


p. 104. The last source of this table of the Roman emperors seems to 
bo the “Chronicon of Eusehins.” Cf. also “ Hamzx Ispahanensis 
annalium,” libri x., translation, pp. 51, 54. In the addition of the years 
there is 2 mistake; the last sum is 318, not 303. 


p. 105. Part of this table of Byzantine emperors seemr to have been 
taken from Hamza Isfahini, translation, p. 52 and 55. In this table 
the sum of the yeara ie 526, not 528. In the text(p. 96,1. 12), read Sia 
instead of bi (De Goeje). 


p. 106. The tradition of the judge Alwaki', see in Hamza Isfahani, 
translation, p. 57-59. Alwaki* seems to have lived in the first half of 
the 4th century of the Flight, vide “ Kitab-aléhrist,” p. 114. 

The addition of the years of this table is in gr2at confusion, and Albé- 
tini has not made an attempt at correcting it. 


In the text (p. 98, 1. 10), read tas imatead of tie, 


p. 107,11. The following chapter on Persian chronology bears a 
close resemblance to that of Hamza Isfabini, translation, p. 6 ff. 
The explication of the word Gayémarth, L. 5, see in Hamza, p. 48. 


p. 107, 1.48. Abd-‘Ali Muhammad ben ’Ahmad AJhalkhi, mentioned 
only in thie place, is not known to me from other sources. Haji Khalifa, 
iv. p. 18, quotes from Albérant. 


p. 108, 1. 3. The following sources of ancient Persian history are 
also quoted by Hamya, p. 7. 

‘Abdallah b. Almukaffa‘ was Inlled in Albasra, probably a.a.145. Cf. 
“ Kitab-alfibrist,” p. 118; Ibn-Khallikan, nr. 186. 

Mubammad b. Aljahm, of the family of Barmak, lived under the 
Khalif Almu‘tagim (4.8. 218-227). Cf. “ Kitaéh-alfihnat,” pp. 81, 245, 
277, and notes; Ibn-Khallikin, nr. 31, p. 40. 

Hishim b. Alkisim aud Babram b. Mardanshéh, Zorozstrian priest in 
Shapirstown, in Persis, are mentioned in the “ Kitaéb-alfibrist,” p. 245, 
among those who tranalated Persian books into Arabie. 


p. 108, 1. 19. The manuscripta have &hziira. My reading, khrira, 
ia a conjecture. The word may be identical with kirira of the Avasta 
{eide Justi, “Handbuch der Zendsprache,” p. 92), and also with lye 
mentioned by Mas‘fdi, “ Prairies d’or,” ii. 88, in a very curious chapter, 
where the author enumerates Abriman and his son Htriyd in a table of 
kings of the Syrians. 


ANNOTATIONS. 399 


p. 108, 1 34, _ A young man. In text (p. 100, 1. 7) read pleat instead 
of “Apt; perce (1. 11) instead of java; and Jebel instead of Sat 
G.12). (Fleischer. 


p. 109, 1.14. Similar tables of the words for king, emperor, prince, 
etc. in various languages are given by several authors, eg. by Ibu- 
Kburdidhbih, * Journal Asiatique,” 1865, p. 249-257. 

Tadan. Perhaps we must read Tudun, and compare the following 
note of the “Etymologicum Magnum,” ed. Gaisford, p. 763: Tovduvra: 
af rorornpyrat mapa Torpxots. 

On Sil, vide note at p. 37, 1. 9. 

The word )3 Kabbér (p. 110, 1. 1) is supposed by my learned friends 
P. Lerch, of St. Petershurgh, and W. Tomaschek, of Gratz, to be a mis- 
spelling fer 343, ie. Kuaz, Knaes (a derivation from the Teutonic 
cusinga), a conjecture which I recommend to the students of Slavonian 
antiquities, 

The title Bekhérd.Khuddh has been found by P. Lerch on the coins 
of the satraps of Bukhara under Sasanian rule and later (a8 far as the 
time ef Almahdi). The coins offer an eriginal writing of Semitic origin ; 
the legend is without any doubt to be read Bukhkint Khudeddt (or 
Khuddéh, Khudddi), A number of these coins are found in the coin- 
cellection of the Royal Museum of Berlin. 


p. 110, 1. 26 The following verses are alse found iu Mas‘idi, 
“Prairies d’or,” ii. p. 116. 


p.111. On the pedigree and family relationa of the Péshdidhians 
from Héshang till Frédin, cf. Bundihish, chap. xxxii. On the chrono. 
logy of the Péshdadhians and Kayénians, - ib. chap. xxxiv. 

In the text (p. 103, Il. 11, 15), read Sas instead of Ixia, 


p- 112. On the descendants of Kawi Kawata or Kaikubaédh and their 
names, cf. Néldeke, “Kayanier im Aweata, Zeitachrift der Deutschen 
Morgenlandischen Gesellschaft,” tom. xxxii, p. 570. 


p. 118. With this table compare that of Hamza, translation, pp. 
9, 10. 


p. 114,1,4. With this table, compare Hamza, pp. 17, 18. 


p, 115, 1.8. A similar table occurs algo in the auther’s Canon Masu- 
dicus (MB, Elliot, fol. 29a). 


40f aLeirdnt. 


After the kings of Avsytia and Arbaces the Median follow the kings 
of Babylonia and Belia. 


Yoara of roign. Anni Mandi. 


Pal Jy, a descendant of Peron - 85 4709 
Tiglatpilenar - 35 4744 
Salmanossar (pats te Buldhtanas- 

gar I. 7 - . ~ 414 4758 
Sanhorih Serpon gps selene - = 8 4767 
Ezarbaddon pytoye 7 3 4770 
Merodakh Baladan len Baladan, te. 

Mardokempad- - +. - - 4 4818 
Sanheril) Minor - - = - - 3i 4549 
Kiniladan yates - rn . - WV 4866 
Nabopolasuar the Magian - + 21 4887 
His son Nebukadnozar, i.e. Bukhtenas. 

sar IT, who destroyed Jerusniem - 48 4930 
Evilmerodeakh ben Nebukadnezar ~ - 2 4932 
His brother Belteshaggar =~ S . 4 4936 
Darius the Median - - - - [17] [4953] 

Then follow the kings of the Persians: 
Cyrus . . - - - . - 9 4962 
His sun Cambyses - - += 8 4970 
Darius the son of Vihtasp - - - = 66 5006 
Xerxes, i.e. Xerxes Kisrii b. Darius - 20 5026 
Artaxerxes (tp)—a,}), ie. oer 

Longimanus -— - - Al 5067 
Darius Nothos = - = * : - 18 5085 
Artaxerrey WSN 3 2 se 40 5125 
Artaxerxes Ochus, ze. the black - - 27 5152 
Arses ben Ochus - = - - - 4 5156 
Darius ben Arsak - = = = 6 5162 


Then follow Alezander and the Ptolemeans. In a4 special column the 
author mentions some contemporary events of Jewish, Egyptian, Greek 
and Roman history. 


p- 115, 1. 45. In the text (p. 112, 1. 4) read a instead of ol 
(Fleischer). 


p. 116, 1 8, Said b. Muhammad Aldhubli is perhaps the same 
Dhubii with whom Bukhiri (died a.u. 256) had a controversy, vide 
Haji Khalifa, iii, 172. 


p- 116, }. #4. Méh is Media or Aljibd2 or AGjabal in tho later geogra- 
phica} terminology. Read JiqJ} instead of the misprint Jat. 


ANNOTATIONS, 4p 


They were one of the families, ete. is a literal translation of the 
reading of the mannscripts, but I do not helieve that this reading is 
correct, nor that Arabie grammar allows such a eo.astruction. 

My conjecture, .s-\ instead of .54-1 is not satisfactory, as it is not 
eonformahle to the usual construction of this word. 

Ons might think of reading frat (“They were the most daring 
and enterprising of the petty princes,” ete.), but this, foo, does not 
seam to settle the difficulty. 

I am sorry to state that 1 have not heen able to find the original 
upon which the term Mul#k-altawi if, “Petty princes,” has been 
coined. 

Cf. with this passage Hamza, p. 30; Tabari, ed. Zotenberg, i. 528 ff. ; 
Tbn-Alsthir, i. 208-210, 271, 272; Mas‘tdi, « Prairies d’or,” ii. 136. 

Ths pedigree of Ashk is carried back to a son of Siyawush, whose 
nams I do not know how to pronounce. Another aon of SiyAwuah is 
meutioned by Jbn-Alathir, i. 173 (Férézad 4js-5) and Tabazi, cd. Zoten- 
berg, i. 467 (Afroud). 

For another padigres of Ashk, vide B. Dorn, “Sehir-cddin’s Ge. 
achichte von Tabaristan, Rujen und Masanderan,” p. 152. 

For the chronology of the Ashkanians, cf. Mihlau-Gutachmid in 
“Zeitachrift der Dentachen Morgenlindiachen Gesellschaft,” tom. xv. 
p. 664; Blau, tb. tom. xviii. p. 680; Gobiueau, ib. tom. xi. p. 700; Muj- 
mil-altawartkh in “ Journal Asiatique,’’ 1841, p. 164: H. Schnciderwirth, 
“ Die Parther,” Heiligenstadt, 1874. 


p. 117, 1 9. On ths surnames of the Ashkaniana I offer a faw 
conjectures : 

Khéskdik, i.e. well-born, de vace pure = sactrivohya, vide Gobineau, 
“Zeitachrift der Deutschen Morgenlandischen Gesellschaft,’ tom. xi. 
p. 702. 

Zarria, i.e. golden. 

Khiriin seema to be a miatake for joy i.e. Gotarzes. 

Gésiwar, i.e. curled, cf. the Peraian word Gésidir=a man of au- 
thority. 

Baridih= gy happy-born. 

Balid=is $y high-horn; hut sce note at p. 118, }. 21. 


p- 117, 1. 30. Sve this table in Hamza, translation, p. 10. 
p.118,L 8. S2a this table in Hamza, p. 18. 


p. 118, 1. 21. Besides the name Malé2kdn there occurs 4 Parthian 
name Mildd, in Mujmil-sitawirikh, “Journal Asiatique,’ 1843, pp. 
393, 415, 416. Perhapa thera is some cormection between od. ule 
and tha aurnama of Féréz ben Bahram, mentioned p. 117, 1.17 (2%). 

28 


402 ALBIRONt, 


p. 119,319. Aba&-Mansir ‘Ahd-alrazz4k is not known to me from 
other sources. 


p: 119, 1.37, In the text (p. 117, 1.13) read iy jo be instead of 
ast ata be 


p- 120, 1. 22. In the text (p. 118, 1. 3) read sai, instead of 1B, 


p. 121,1.6. Shdbirkin. Of this work of Miui’s very little is known, 
vide G. Fligel, ‘ Mani, seine Lehre und seiue Schriften,” Leipzig, 1862, 
pp. 365-867. 


yp. 121,136. In the text (p. 128,12. 5) read uli wit tho MBS., instead 
of wis 


p. 121, 1.40, The following calculation is known iu astrology by the 
name of Tasyir ye (Directio). The calculation ie this: 
407 x 991=— 37,9253. 
T£ you divide this product by 360, you get a remainder of 152% degrecs. 
The meaning of the 93} degrees, the nature of the solar cycle here me. 
tioned, and the further detaila of the calculation, Ido not anderst .d, 
and cannot, therefore, guarantee ths correctness of tho text. 


p. 122, 1. 14. Misa ben ‘Tei Alkisrawi ie aleo mentioned in the 
“ Witab-alfibriet,” p. 128. His chronological theory is stated by Haniza, 
translation, pp. 11-16. 


p- 122, 1.82. For the pedigree of Ardashir ben Babak, cf. B. Dorn, 
“Sehir-eddin’s Geschichte von Tabaristan, Rujan und Masanderan,” 
pp. 146, 151. 


p- 123. ‘With this table, ef. the history of the Sasanians according to 
Mirchond, translated by §. de Sacy in Memetres sur diverses antiquités de 
lo, Perse, p. 273 Zi. 

Instead of bo read 34,3 Ziridates, surname of Shapir I. 

The word 5..0\~ is explained by Mirchond as ,\4<3 bienfateant (Sacy, 
p. 296). 

Instead of ~—3v8t Mirchond has e—yodt,. 

Tastead of aleyles Mirchond has &egt,5 

Read styJ3 instead of sh Jy with “ Mujmil-altawisikh ” (see “ Journal 
Asiatique,” 1841, p. 265; 1843, p. 403). 

T have to add in thie place that opposite the name of Ardasbir ben 
Bibak the MSS. have the following note : 

PY Edy Boj coby capil elle dergd Gotgll aly 
T have not been able to make out the meauing of the lat word. 
Tu the uote which is writteu opposite the uame of SLipir hen Arda- 


AXNOTATIONS, 4038 


shir, the MSS. have the reading wes! which I have attered inte 
gts} as the word 4, is in the masculine. 

The surnamo of Shabrbariz wy is perhaps to he read ols or to be 
considered as a corruption of gles He is also called Farkhan. 

In the toxt (p. 122, 1. 7) read 3s) instead of Hoy. 


p 124. With this table compare Hamza, translation, pp. 10, 11. 
p. 125. With this table, ef. Hamza, pp. 18, 19. 


p. 126, 1.27. Jushanasptadha or Jushanastadha is the correct reading 
of the signs S4.——= @. Hoffmann read first the beginning of the word 
as Jushanae or Jushanasp (~~\ pS, Armenian form Veshnasp, vide 
Langlois, “ Collection des historieus,” ctc., ti. p, 845). The sceond part 
of the compound I read Tada or Tadia (x word of unknown etymology), 
and found the whole name in the Armenian form of Vishnaspiad (vide 
Tanglois, “Collection des historiens de l’Arménie,” tom. ii. p. 887). @. 
Hoffmann added «a further support of this identification by pointing ont 
the Greek form of the name, viz. Vovoavaarddys (cf. P. de Lagarde, 
“ @esammelte Abhandlungen,” p. 185). 


p. 127, 1. 28. In the text (p. 129, |. 9), read pais instead of pode; 
Ea. 11) instead of =a ; and y= (L. 14) instead of = 


p. 128. ‘With this table, cf. Hamza, pp. 14, 15. 


p. 129, 1.16. ‘Ahmad b. Altayyib Alsarakbsi, a pupil of Alkindt and 
companion of the Khalif Almu‘tadid, was killed a.m. 286. Cf. “ Kitab- 
alihrist,” pp. 261, 300, and Wistenfeld, “ Geschichte der Arabischen 
Aerste und Naturforscher,” nr. 80. 


p- 129,1,19. On the Indian astrologer Kanaka, vide“ Kitab-alfilrist,” 
p. 270, and note. 


p. 129, 1.24. In the text _fP- 132, 1. 10), read csilaally yaglyalt instead 
of SHAS, Syl, Sela C2 (1. 12) instead of Mela ggee and std 


(1. 18) instead of 5 5) (Fleischer). 


p. 180. This table contains a number of wostly well-luowe princes, 
statesmen, and generals : 

No. 1 was Vazir to the Khalif Almu‘tadid, and died a.u. 291. Cf, 
Weil, “‘ Geschichte der Chalifen,” iii. pp. 514, 589. 

His son, ‘Amid-aldaula, is not known to me. 

No. 3-5 are princes of the house of Hamdan in Syria (Mosul). 

No. 6-11, 13, 14, 17-21, 238, are princes of the house of Buwaihi or 
Baya, vide the pedigree of this family in F. Wilken, “Mirchond’s Ge- 


404 ALBinGyi. 


schichte der Sultane sus den Hanse Bujeb,” p. 12; the Turkish chronicle 
of Munajjim Bashy, ii, pp.484, 498, 495, 502. 

No, 12, 15, are two prinoes of the family of the Bani-ZiyAd of Jurjén. 

No. 16 is not known to me. 

No. 22, 28, 29, are the two founders of the famous Ghaznawi dynasty. 

No. 24, 27, 82, belong to the family of Simjir, governor of Khurasin 
under the Samanide dynasty. Cf. Defrémery, “ Histoire des Samanides,” 
pp. 261, 168,188, 201, 208. 

No, 25. Abi-al‘abbis Tash was governor of Nishipir under Sams- 
nide rute, and died a.2. $79. Of. Defrémory, ¢. p. 168. 

No. 26. Abf-alhasan Alf#ik, a general of the last Samanide princes, 
disappears before a.u. 889. Cf. Defrémery, «2. p. 196. 

No. 81. Abj-alfawiris Begtiatin was governor of Khurisin and 
Vazir to the last Samanide princes; he seems to have died before a.x. 
889. 

No. 88. Abi-Mangir Alp-Aralan Albflawi was Vazir to the last 
Samanide prince Muntagir, and was atill alive when this book was com- 
posed. Cf. Defrémery, i. p. 202. 


p- 181,118. On Bughrakh&n, prince of Kiishgbar, the conqueror of 
Transoxiana, vide Weil, “Geschichte der Chalifen,” iii, Anhang 1, 


p- 181, 1. 23. Here ths author speaks of the prince of Jurjan, Kabis 
ben Washmgir, to whom he has dedicated his book, vide note at p. 1, 
1 25. 3 . 


p- 181, 1. 41. In the text (p. 185, L 6) read Um instead of ¥isl 
(Fleischer). 


p- 182,13. Tailaedn. (Cf p. 152,1. 34.) By the term twofold (or 
redonbled) Tuilesdn, the author means an oblong quadrangular field, 
divided into two equal parts by a diagonal. ‘Tailasin is the name of a 
pieces of dress, vide Dozy, “ Dictionnaire des noms deg vétements chez lea 
Arabes,” p. 278, and Tane, “ Arabio Dictionary ” under this word, 


p. 182,17. The Greek nams of the sexagesima) systom is é{pxoord, 
vide Delambre, “ Histoire de l’astronomie ancienne,” ii, pp. 577, 608 
(Hexécostades). There is a chapter on the sexagesimal system of calcn- 
lation in Barlnaam’s Aoyurred; dovpovopucj (Delambre, 48, i. 320). 


p. 183. A similar table of intervals between the epochs of the various 
eras is also given by Delambre, “ Histoire de V’astronomie du moyen 
age,” p. 96, on the authority of Ibn-Yiinus. In the text of this table I 
had to correct some mistakes: 

At notes a,c. PIs have the correct reading, 101 2938, guaranteed by 
wstekee The corresponding sexagesimal numbers 54, 7, 48,4, are wrong 
in all manuscripts, for they represent the exroneons number 101, 9274. 


ANNOTATIONS, 405 


1 have printed instead of them the sexagesimal numbers which represent 
the number 10), 4938, ze. 
83, 55, 41, 4. 

Ai notes b, 6, d. The yveading of ths manuscripts 123,8528 is wrong, 
for the addition of the constituent numbers gives the sum of 123,8516. 
Accordingly also \qae- must be changed into heart, 

The sexagesimal numbers have also besn derived from ths wrong 
number, for 3 (not 43), 2, 44, 5, represent the number 128,8528, whilet 
we must read 

56, 1, 44, 5 
a representing the number 128,8516. 
At d, read y V+ 4 instead of ¥ w we 8 


p. 184. The chapter on the chees problem 1 have separately edited 
and explained in the “Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenlandischen 
Gesellschaft,” tom. xxix. pp. 148-156. 

Regarding the English terminology of this chapter, I must say a 
word to justify the use of the word check. Tf I had used the com- 
mon expression for a field on the chess-board, ic. square, my tranelation 
would have hecome very ambiguous, ae frequently in one sentence I 
should have had to apeak of a sqguzare (in the mathematical meaning) 
and a square (a field on a chees-board). Tie square (former meaning) 
of the number of @ squore (latter meaning) would hava been intoler- 
able. To avoid thie ambiguity I have adopted the word check in the 
common meaning of square, as check geems to he the next synonymous 


term, meaning # quadrangular field in a piece of Scotch cloth or tartan 
plaid. 


p. 186, 1. 7. The daye of the epochs of the varions eras according 
to Ibn-Yinus have been communicated by Delambre, “ Histoixe do V’as- 
tronomie du moyen ége,” p. 96. 

Albatini’s rules for the comparison of eras hetween each other, gee i. 
p. 41. 


p 186,1.20. The epochal day of the #ra Diluvii is a Friday, vide 
Idsler, “ Handbuch der mathematischen und technischen Chronologie,” 
iL. p. 627, 


p. 186, 1. 26. The epochal day of the Ara Natonassari is a Wed- 
nesday, that of the Zra Phitippi is a Sunday; Ideler, i. ii. pp. 627, 
628. The correspondence between the L Tét and the I. Daim&h, is also 
stated by Alfarghant, “ Elementa actronomics,” ed. Golius, p. 5. 


p. 136, L 30. The epochal day of the ra Alecandri is a Monday ; 
Farghini, p. 6 ; Ideler, ii. 628. 


*UU0 ALBIEUNI. 


p. 187,1.9. The Syrian year commences with the 1 Oct., tho Greek 
year with the 1 January, The interval between these two New Year's 
Days is 92 days. 


p. 187, p.1%. The epochal day of the Hra Auguati is a Thuraday ; 
Ideler, ii. p. 628. 


p. 187, 1. 37. The epochal day of the 2a Diocletiant is a, Wednesday, 
see Ideler, ii, 628. 


p. 138, 1.9. The epochal day of the Ero of the Flight is a. Thursday ; 
Ideler, ii. 629. 


p- 138, 1. 80, The epochal day of the Bra Yasdagirdi ia 2 Tuesday, 
sea Farghanf, p. 6, and Ideler, ii. 629. 


p. 189, 1.7. Bead Alnairist instead of Alibrist (also in the tet, p. 
142, 1. 22). In the text, p. 142, 1. 21, read gwlall gl instead of 
cele Ut 


p. 141, 1.29. The following lines (till p. 142, 1. 2), are & torso of 
which I do not know a proper restoration. It seeme the author gave an 
exposition of the length of the Jewish, the Christian, and the astro- 
uomical yeare, and pointed out some incongruity between Jewish and 
acientific astronomy. Both Jewish Yeare, that of B. Ssmual (the Julian 
year), of 365 d. 6h. and that of R. "Add of 365 d. 5 h. 997 H. 48 
Rog. are too long, vide Dr. A. Schwarz, “Der Jidische Kalender,” 
pp. 65, 120. In the present atate of the text I am not ablo to say 
what the 165 daya (p. 142, I. 2) mean. 


p. 142,112. Thea subtraction of two years in this calculation is neces- 
aitated by the Babylonian Ords intercalationia, 99293, which the author 
usos in this place. Cf. p. 68,1. 6. 


p. 142,120. The Assaying Circle is based on the assumption that 
the Enneadecateria corresponds to 19 solar years (whilst there is a dif- 
ference between them of 145 Halakim, vide p. 64, 1. 16), and that the 
mean Lunar year has 354 days in 2 common year and 384 days in a leap 
year. The former, if compared with the Julian year, is too short by 1! 
days; the latter is teo long by 19 days. 

In the equaree of the thirteenth year of the cycle read [til 7, inetead 
of {142 6 (also in the text). 

No regard has been had of the intercalation of the Julian years. 


p: 143, L 28. In the teat (uote i, Last line,) read Ste geuy instead of 
Fie way 


p. 144, 1.5. By the apparent motion the author means that motion 


ANNOTATIONS, 407 


which at any tine is found by astronomical observation, no eqnation or 
correction being used. 


p. 144.117, This spaco of time, ie. 2 d. 16 bh. 595 H isthe so-called 
Character of the Enneadlecateris. 


p. 144,1,26. The 4d. 8h. 876 H. are the Character of the Common 
Year, the 5d. 21h. 589 H. the Character of the Leap-year. Cf. Lazarus 
Bendavid, “ Zur Geschichte und Berechnung des Jiidiaehen Kalcnders,” 
Berlin, 1817, § 32. 


p- 144,180. These 5d. 14h. are the Méléd of the Creation (9 ‘) 
ia. Friday morning, 8 o’clock. Cf. Dr. A. Schwarz, “ Der Jiidische 
Kalender,” p. 50, nota 2. 


p. 145,115. With the 12th year of the ra Alexandri begins a new 
Enneadecateris of the Jewish “ra Adami, the 182 d. one. 

The Basis, i.e. the Méléd of ZZ. Alex. 12 (i.e. H. Adami 3460) has been 
omitted in the tables of all manuscripts. It is, however, easy to find by 
the help of the tables on pp. 145-147. 3460 sears are: 


ah HW 

6 Great Cycles : . - = 8 20 600 
14 Small Cycles : - : = 2 15 770 
2 ainglo years : . . = 3 6 3885 
9 18 675 


Therefore the Méléd of the 12th year of Alexander is 2d. 18h. 675 1]. 
(ef, the astronomical calculation of this Méléd on p. 148, 1. 19). 


p. 145,180. The numbers of days, hours, and Halikim of this table 
the reader may check by always adding tho Character of the Enneade- 
cateris, i.e. 2d. 16h. 695 H., and by subtracting 7,28 soon as the addition 
of the daya gives more than seven days. 


p. 146, 1. 20. The number of days, hours, and Haliikim the reader 
may check by always adding for a common year 4d. 8h. 876 H., for a 
leap-year 5 d. 21 h. 589 H., and by subtracting 7, as econ as the addition 
of the days goes beyond this number. 


p- 147,11. The Character of the Great Cycle is 5d. 7h. 460H., 
which you get by multiplying the Character of the Enneadecateris, i-¢. 
2d. 16h. 595 H. by 28, dividing the sum by 7, and taking the re- 
mainder. 


p. 147, 1.42. Times. One time is equal to four minutes. 


408 aupiront, 


p. 148, 1. 15. In the following tables these measures have been 
used : 


Character of the Enneadecateris 24, 16h. 28% 570. 57 UL. sgiv. 


Accordingly the length of the Enneadecateris according to the sons of 
Miea hen Shikir was 
69394. 16h. 282 57 0. 57 1. 53 1. 
The division of this sam by the number of the lunations of the Emea- 
decateris, i.e. 285, gives the length of the synodical month as assumed by 
the sons of Misa ben Shakir, #. 
29d. 12h. 441 20. 97 01.97 1. ov. 
Cf. p. 148, L 28, where the same measure is mentioned, with this dif- 
ference, that there the number of fifths is stated to be 12. Cf. note at 
. 158, 
: The Character of the Common Year ia 
4d. Sh. 481 277 2801 Jaly. 
The Character of the Leap-Year is 
5d. 21 h. 324. 29 1. 45 OT. g5rv. 
Tha Chatacter of the Great Cycle is 
54. 5h. 81" 80 OU 44. 


p. 150, 1.22. The Limits within which the Méléd of a year may fall 
are determined by the four Dehiyyéth, ic. IT TINTYY The and 
opm: Cf. Iezarus Bendavid, “Zur Berechnung und Geschichte 
des Jadischen Kalenders,” §§ 35-39. 

On the relations between New Year’s Day and tho charscter or nature 
of the year, cf, Lazarus Bendavid, §§ 46-48. 


p. 152,134. Tatlasdn, vide note at p. 132, 1.3. Perhaps it would be 
hetter to read ‘alya. instead of Wyat (text, p. 159, L. 1). 


p. 153, 1.4. In this table as it occurs in the MSS. there is a mistake. 
td and 5 can follow each othsr, as the Table of Kebi‘éth (at p. 154) 
plainly shows. Therefore, read in the text, in ths corresponding field, 
pF ot Sr instead of Nyt yl aren. 

Ths thres values of the table give the following six permutations: 


As A } cannot follow each other. 


aed) 
I+M ( can follow each other. 
wn 


atte 
p. 153,114 The Thbls of Equation, vide pp. 280, 281. 


ANNOTATIONS, +00 


p. 158, 1.18, The number of 6,940 days is a round number, for in 
reality the Enneadecaterie has only 6,989 d.16h. 595H. Regarding the 
preponderance of the Perfect years over the Imperfect ones in the Ennes- 
decateris, of. Lewisohn, “ Geschichte und Syetem des Jiidischen Kalen- 
derwesens,”” Leipzig, 185, § 90. 125 monthe of 30 daye each, and 110 
roontha of 29 daye each, give the sum of 6,940 days. 


Teble at p. 154. There was a fatal mistake in the first square of this 
table. The MSS. have the 201% fli instead of the 191h [hil (text, pp. 
166,167). Dr. Schramm, of Vienna, kindly settled the question for me 
by computing the date in question by means of the formula of Gauss. 

The New-Year’s Day of the Jewish A. Adami 4754 waa the 

19th £2 A. Alex. 1804. 
However, according to Albérdnf, the corresponding Greek year is A. Alez. 
1805, not 1804. This difference is to be explained in the following 
way: 

The Jewish year 4754 falls together orruna parallel with A. Alex. 
1905, with one difference: The New-Year’s Day (or 1st Tishri) of 
A. Adami 4754 was the 19th lal A. Alex. 1804. The Jewish New- 
Yosar’s Day (1st of Tishri) fell 11 days oarlier than the Greek New- Year's 
Day (or let of Tiehrin Primue). 

Therefore—to epeak accurately—the beginning (i.e. the first 11 days) 
of the Jewish year 4754 falls into the Greek year 1804, but the whole ~ 
remainder of the year corresponds with A. Alex. 1305. 

This seems to be the reason why the author has in this table com- 
pared tho Jewish year 4754 with the Greek year 1305. 

The Jewish New-Year always precedes the Greek New-Year by a small 
number of daye, vide the Assaying Circle on p. 142. 

The tabls comprisas the years of Alexander 1305-1818, i.c. 532 yeare, 
or one Great Cycle of 28 Small Cycles. 

The Ordo Intercalationis in each Small Cycle is :y~9) ie. the 3rd, 5th, 
Sth, 11th, 14th, 16th, 19th years of the cycle are leap-ycars. 

It is a noteworthy fact that in every 247 yeara (i.e. 13 Small Cycles) 
nearly (not accurately) the same Kebi‘dth return, which the reader will 
find confirmed if he compares the years 1305 #f. with 1552 if. and 1799 ff. 
On this eubject, cf. Lazarue Bendavid, ** Zur Berechnung und Geschichte 
dee Jidischen Kalendere,” § 45. 


p. 155, 1.26. On the two beginnings of a Jewish month, or the two 
Réch-Hodesh, cf. Iazarne Bendavid, § 11. 

Tn the following tables I bave printed the real lst of 2 month in 
Arabic numerals, and the fictitious firet of a month, i.e. the last day of 
the preceding complete month in Latin numerals. 

29 


410 apron. 


p- 157, 1. 10. Tho computation of this table reats on the theory tba: 
between the Méléd of one month end that of the following there ia an 
jnterval of 29d. 12h. 798 H. The half of thie (the Fortnight) is 14d. 
18 h. 396} H. 

The Character of the month is 1d. 12h. 798 H. dc. the Méléd of a 
month falla hy 1 d. 12h. 793 H. later in the woek than the Méléd of the 
preceding month. 

The Character of the Fortnight is 0d. 18h. 3923 H. The table con- 
sista of additions of theae two values. 


p. 158. The checking of this table gave some difficulty, as in the 
column of the fourths the fractions have been omitted in all the 
manuscripte of the text, whilst in the computation they have not been 
disregarded. 

This table showa that Albérini reckoned the interval between two con- 
secutive conjunctions (after the sona cf Mfs& b. Shakir) at 

29d. 12h. 4414. 21 1701 9] Iv. JoVv. 
The half of thia is 
144.18h.2%L 10 gM 4giy. gev. 
or 
14d. 18h. 221] 1 gm. 403 Iv. 

With this measure, cf. my conjecture on p. 143, 1. 28, and note at p. 
148, 1. 15. 

Accordingly the Character of this synodical month is 

1d. 12h, 441 20 17 Q1 Iv. jQOVv. 
ae. the beginning of a month falle by ao much later in the week than 
that of the preceding month. The half of thie Character is 
Od. 18h. 226 10. § UM 4s iv. 
The tuble consists of additions of these two values. 


p. 159, 1.11. The reason of the following calculation ia thia, that 
Passover alwaya falle on the 163rd day from the end of the year. The 
division of 163 by 7 gives 2 as remainder. 

If, therefore, you add 2 to the week-day of tho Passover of a year, 
you get the week-day on which the New-Year’s Day of the following 
yoar falla, 


p. 159, 1.29, The untversat equations refer to the varioug inequalities 
in the rotation of both sun and moon, and they scrve the purpose of 
changing their veal motion into meax motion, 


ANNOTATIONS. 411 
p. 160,16 Inthe toxt (p. 176, 1. 21), read tpiiit, instead of tyelat, 


p. 160,129. In the text (p. 177, 1.10), read \,<41 instead of 1,25 


p. 161,14. The number 350 is the multiplication of the 7 years of 
the Cycle of Shani‘ by the 50 years of the Cycle of Yébt]. After this 
eycle of 350 years the single years of both cycles in question return 
again in the same order. 


p. 168, 1.20. With sediment. Reak aa instead of Rays (text, p. 182, 
1, 12). ° 


p. 163, 1.38. The solar year of 365} days, ic. the Julian year, is 
called the year of Rabbi Samuel, whilst the year of 365d. 5378: h., the 
second of the two kinds of solar years which occur in Jewish chronology, 
is called the year of R.’Adda bar ’Ahabi. Converting this latter space 
of time into Jewish measures we get 

865 d. 5h. 997 H. 48 Regit‘tm. 
This length of the solar year has heen found by dividing by 19 tho 
Enneadecatoeria of Meton (6,939d. 16h. 595 H.), which comprehends 
285 synodical months of Hipparchus, and which has heen adopted by the 
Jewish chronologiste. Cf. Dr. Ad. Schwarz, “ Der Jidische Kalonder,” 
p. 65 &. 


p. 164, 1.1. Foran astronomical examination of the following chapter 
(as far as p. 167), I refer the reader to Hine Berechnung der Enifernung 
des Sonnen-Apogacune’s vow dem Frahlingspunkte bei Alleriiué Mitgetheile 
von Prof. Ed. Sachau und Dr. Joh. Holetsche (p. 19 ff), iv the “ Sitz- 
ungsberichte der Kaiserlicheon Akademio der Wisscuschaften in Wien, 
Phil.-hist. Classe,” 1876, February. 


p. 167, 1.7%. Abd-Nagr Mangitr, etc,,a mathematician and astronomer, 
lived in Khwinzm and Ghazna and died, as it seems, in the latter place 
in tho first quarter of the 5th century of the Flight. Cf. the text, “ Hin. 
leitung,” p. xzxiii. 


p. 168. The TekQféth are the chronological, not the astronomical 
year-points. Their calculation is based upon the Julinn years of Rabbi 
Samuel, . 

The following are the olements of this calculation: 

1. The year contains four quarters, ench of 91d, 7h. 54011. Dividing 
this by 7, you get the remainder of 7h. 540H., ic. 7} hours. 


412 ALBIRONE. 


2. The Character of the Tekafa is 73 hours, which is the amount of 
the precession of each year-point within the week. This precession 
mounts for one complete year to 80 hours or 1} day. 

38, If you multiply 30 hours hy 28 and divide the product hy 24, you 
get no remainder, which means that after a cycle of 28 such years the 
year-points fall again on the time within ths week. 

4, The question is: whence to begin with this calculation? with the 
Tekdfa of Tishri or that of Nisin P 

The author fixes the Tekdfé of Tishrt on the 5th Tishri, 2 Wednes- 
day, 9 o’clock in ths morning, 3.e. 4d. 15h. after the Méléd of Tishri. 

By subtracting herefrom the amount cf tho weekly precession of two 
Tekfféth (i.e. 15 hours), the author finde the firat hour of the night 
of Wednesday (or, according to our method, Tuesday, 6 o’clock in the 
evening,) as the time of the Tekafi of Nisin, ic. 4d. Oh. after the 
Méléd of Nisin. 

5. In the Tuble.of Tetdfcth the author has assumed as the beginning 
of his calculation the time of noon (of Wednesday), 4c. 4d. 18h. instead 
of the eunsst (of Tuesday) or 4d. Oh. 

On this subject, ef. Dr.'Ad. Schwarz, “Der Jidische Kalender,” pp. 
65-69. 


p- 169, 1.10. Ths names of ths planets as given by the anthor are 
well known in later Hebrew. Asa matter of interest for the history of 
Hebrew pronunciation, I mention the spalling of pos and gaa yt.S 
= PION 3515 which reminds one of the pronunciation “of the Jews of 
Galicia. 


p- 172. Regarding Oriental names of the planets, I refer the reader 
to Chwolsohn, “Sabier und Sabismus,” ii. pp. 156-175. 

In the square of the Syriac names of Venue there occur two other 
names, which F have not been able to decipher. The one, Sv ia, perhaps, 
a corruption for wo. 


p- 174. The anthor shows thet a year-point, es calculated by the 
Tekiféth of Rabbi Samuel (6.0. according to the Julian year), in no way 
agrees with reality, i.e. with a year-point aa determined by astronomical 
observation, and that on tha other hand the Tekffath, as calculsted by 
the syetem of Rabbi Adda, come pretty near reality. The proof for this 

atter assertion has fallen out, as the chapter is @ forso. 

Here (1. 21) the author states that the first Tekifa of Tishrt fell 5a. 
Lh. after the Méléd of the year, whilst on p. 168, ). 19, ha has said that 

fell 4d. 15h. after the same Méléd. I cannot account for this 
divergency. 


ANNOTATIONS. 413 


p. 174,1.16. The constituent parts of this eum are the following: 


a. bh HL 
8 Great Cycles - . = 1554490 11 440 
26 Small Cycles . - = 180,481 22 350 
9 yearsorlll months - = 8,277 21 548 
Sum - 1,738,200 7 253 

—~—5 1 


Remainder - 1,738,195 6 258 


This ig the interval hetween the Tekifa of Tishri of the fizst yoar of 
the Bra Adami and the Méléd of A. Alex. 1311. 

The division of thia sum by 364} days gives 4,758 Julian years, and a 
remainder of $3352 d. 253 H. i.e. one year minus 29 d. 11 bh, 827 H. 

Sunday, 7b. 253H. of daytime ie Od. 19h. 253H., which, added to 
29d. 11h. 827 HL, gives the sum of 

30d. 7b. 

If wo count 30d 7b. from the heginning of 2 Sunday (i.e. the pre- 
cading eunset), the Let of Eli], we come as far as a Tuseday night, 7 b., 
the first of Tichrin Primus. 


In 1. 88, read 7h. instead of 9h., and in the text, p. 194, 1. 15, read 
while ar~ Sl instead of wel. a Jt 


p. 175,12. The year of Rabbi Adda contains 365d. 54733 h. Of 
this kind of fractions (c«. 4164th parts of an hour) one day contains 
98,496. 

The following is the conversion of 

1,788,195 d. 6h. 255 H 


into theee fractione: 
1,738,195 d.==171,205,254,720 
6h= 24,624 
253 H.= 9612 


Sum - 171,205,280,3053. 


Hence it is evident. that in the numher 
171,280,3052 (line 5, for so it ig to he read) 
205 millione have fallen out. 

If wo divide thia sum of 4104th parte of an hour by 85,975,351 (which 
is the solar year of B. Adda, reduced into the eame kind of fractione), 
we get a8 quotient 4,758 yoars, and a remainder of 850d. 21-285 h. 

Z£ we compare this remainder with that of the former calculation, we, 


414 atpizént. 


885 2. 18h. 253 H., we got a difference of 15d. 3b 21% H., whieh means 
that, according to Rabbi Addi, the Tokafa of Tishri of A. Alex. 1811 
falls by 15 2. Sh. 239, H. earlier than that of Rabbi Samuel. 

This difforence shows that the system of Esbbi Addd comes pretty 
near astronomical truth, for, whilst Ate autumnal equinox foll 15d. 
82io h. earlier than that of BR. Samusl, the astronomical equinox fall 
¥4 days carlior, as the author says himself on p. 174, 1. 35. 


p. 174, 1.21. Read wast inctead of wast in the text, p. 194, 1. 9. 


p. 175,1.5. That part of ths text which is missing im this placo (ic. 
between the words els and wide, in tho text, p. 194, 1 91, not be. 
tween the number and ..=s+) originally contained rules by which to find 
the week-days on which the years of the oras of the Doluge, Nabonassar, 
and Philippus commence. Of the chapter relating to the Era of Alex- 
ander only the end is extant. 

The table on p. 175 contains a cycle of 28 Julian years, after which 
the single years begin again on the samo week-days. 

The reason why tho beginning of Tishrin I. in the first year of the 
oyclo is fixed upon 2, i.e. Monday, is this, that Monday is the epochal 
day of this ora, Cf, L. Ideler, “ Handbuch,” ik. p. 628, 


p- 176, 1,14f. Similar rules for tho derivation of tho beginnings of 
the yerrs of tho different eras are also given by Delambre, “Histoire do 
lV'astronomie du moyen age,” p. 41. 

The spocha) days of the single eras are also given by Delambre, p. 96. 


p.176,1. 27. This rule for the derivation of the Signum Mukarrami 
of any year of the Flight is very intricate, and the author does not 
explain the principle upon which it is based. 

Moat people take Thursday, othors Friday, as the epochal day of the 
era of the Flight. 

Tho lunar year of this era is generally reckonod at 

85433 d.=354d. 8h. 48, 
but in reality ths mean lunar year is longer. Idelor (“ Handbuch,” ii. 
p. 479) reckons it as 
354d. 8h, 48' 86”, 
and the author seems to reckon it as 
364d. 22’ 1°=354 d. Bh. 48 min. 24 sec. 

(it must be noticed that in ths formar number minutes are 60th 
parts of a day, seconds 60th parts of a 60th part of a day, whilst in the 
sscond number minutes ars 60th parts of an hour, seconds 60th parte of 
a 60th part of an four.) 


ANNOTATIONS, 415 


The author does not explain why ho adds 8 to the minutes. To add 
5 days and 84 minutes is the same as if you add 6 days. In this case 
we must assnme Friday (6) as the epochal day of the era, and the addi- 
tion of 6 days brings us back to Sunday, the beginning of the week in 
which the Flight eccurred (cf. p. 177, 1.43 #., and p. 180, }. 19). 

Further: why docs the author count all minutes above 15 as one hour, 
whilat, according to the genera] practice, the minutes below 30 ought to 
be disregarded, and those abeve 30 te be counted as enc bour ? 

The intricacies of this rule have not revealed to me the mystery of 
their mathematical ratio. As it seems, the autber intended by some 
contrivance to meet the incorrectness of the common year (of 35433 a.) 
being too short. 


p- 176, 1. 88. Tho sum of tho days of two months is 59, whieh, 
divided by 7, gives the remainder of 3, te. the day on which a month 
begine, advances in two months ns far as $ days within the week. 


p. 177,1.2. Muhammad hen Jibir Albattini, a famoug astronomer of 
HarrAnian origin, died a.w. 317; vide “ Kitib-alfibrist,” p. 279. 

Habash the mathematician, a native of Marw, auther ef famous astro- 
nemical tables, vide “Kitab-alfibrist,” p.275, and notes, and Haji Khalifa, 
v. p. 515. 


p- 177, 1.44, Road jes instead of Jess in the text, p. 197.1. 15, 


p. 179. Thia table is the invention of the mathematician Habash, 
indicating the Signe Muharrami for 210 yeara; but acme acctarian has 
in every place added 5 to the number of days, and thereby changed it 
into a table indicative of the Signa Ramaddni for the cycle of 210 years, 
In this form the table ia given hy Albérdnt. 

The title of the table, as given by me, must be corrected: ' Table 
showing on what week-days the Ramadiins of the single years of the 
eyele of 210 years commence.” Accordingly alsc the superscription ef 
col. B, ia to be altered. 

For the intercalary aystem of the lunar calendar I refer the reader to 
L. Ideler, ii. p.479 ff. As the lunar year is reckoued as 354 days, 11 days 
must be intercalated within 30 years. 

After the cycle of 30 years the New-Year days do not again fall on the 
same week daya, as there is a remainder of 5 daya. There is no 
remainder of daysif this cyele is repeated seven times, 7.e. after a cycle 
of 210 years the New-Year days fall again on the same week-day. 

This is the reason why the table was constructed for a period of 210 
years, cf. p. 180, 1. 26. 


416 ALBiEOny. 


Tho following lis the Ordo intercalationie according to which Habash 
has constracted his table 


Cyole of 80 Portio Csole of 80 Portio 
yeara, intercalanda. years. intercalanda. 
da, d. 
1 n L 16 46 
L 2 a3 1? vs 
g fo 18 ae 
4 # L. 19 ord 
L 8 a8 20 49 
6 vs L  2l rs 
? # 22 os 
L 8 248 23 # 
9 ¥s L.  % rr 
10 $9 25 fs 
Lou BR 26 1s 
12 rv L 7 ag 
L 18 i 28 fs 
14 ss 29 # 
15 us L. 30 30 


According to Habash, the following years of the cycle of 30 yeara are 
leap-years: 
2, 5, 8, 11, 18, 16, 19, 21, 24, 27, 30, 
whilst, according to the common Ordo intercalationis, the following years 
are leap-yeats : 
2, 5, 7, 10, 18, 16, 18, 21, 24, 26, 29, 
or 
2, 5, 7, 10, 18, 15, 18, 21, 24, 26, 29. 

The principle of Habash is obvious: He intercalates the portio inter. 
eclenda as one vhole day, when the fraction has risen to more than 28, 
ie, ards of a whole day. 

Hahash has used Friday es the epochal day, because IV. (Signum 
Ramadan!) minus 5 gives VI. (Friday) as ths Signum Moharrami. 

In the text (vide the serew-figure, p. 198) there are four mistakes: 

1. In the first square v (the Signam of the first Ramadan) hes fallen 

out. 

2. The Signum Ramadan for the year 9 has fallen out, viz. 9 

8. Tho Signum of the year 25, read 4 instead of y 

4, The Signum of the year 181, read » instead of » 


p. 180,17. Tabula mediorum. The word Wasat or Medium means 
the corrected or mean motion of any celestial body. 


ANNOTATIONS, 417 


p- 180, 1. 27. Read Jit instead of Jyt in the text, p. 198, 1. 22 
(Bleischer). 


p. 18]. The Corrected Table of the author contains the Characters of 
the single years of the cycle of 210 yosre, te. the remainders which you 
get if you divido the aum of the days of the years by 7. 

The addition of 5 d.3é' shows that the table ia calculated for Friday 
as the epochal-day. : 

It must be kept in mind that in order to find the Signum Muharrami 
for any year, wa must look out in the Corrected Table for the Signum of 
the preceding year; eg. to find the Signum Muharrami of a.z. 100, we 
take tue Signum of the year 99, 


viz. 5d. 18 
+5d. 34 


10d. 52’ 
7a. 


3d. 52’=IV. or Wednesday. 
The author does not explain what eyatem of intercalation he follows. 


p. 182,1.1. The following passage and table are algo found in the 
Kesmographie of Alkazwini, ed. Wastenfeld, p. 74. 

Tho Octaeteris of lunar years ia the basis of the Turkish calendar, vide 
Tdeler, ii. p. 564. It reste on the obeervation that the beginnings of 
consecutive cycles of eight years fall nearly on the same identical time 
of the week, but there is @ difference of four minutes, iz, the heginning 
of one Octaeteris, falls by four minutes later than that of the preceding 
one. 


If we compute the beginnings of the first Octaeteris by the help of 
the corrected table, we get the following Signa: 


tho Gyele. Mobeni i. 
1 - - 3 = 433+6 
2 : - 7 = 138+6 
8 - - & = 6846 
4 - += 2 = 8346 
5 - = 6 = 03846 
6 - 4 = 58146 
7 - - lL = 233+6 
8 - . 6 = 638+6 


30 


418 ALEIEGST, 


Ido not seo the reacon why the authur orders + to be added to the 
complete years of the ra Pugs (Il. 4, 5). 

The firet Signum Mubarrami of the table belougs to the second year 
of the Flight. In 1. 7, read ander 8 inetead of ander 7. 

Ahmad ben Muhammad ben Shihab is not known to me from other 
sources, The “ Kitah-alfibrist,’ p. 282, mentions a mathematician Ahmad 
ben Muhemmed,a contemporary of Muhammad ben Misi, who died 
AH, 259. : 


p- 183,112. ‘Abd-Ja‘far Alkhizin, a famous aetrouomer and mathe- 
matician, vide ‘ Kitab-alfihriat,” p. 282. He was a contemporury of 
Abt-Zaid Albalkbi, who died a.n. 822. Cf. “ Kitib-alfibriat,” p. 138, 
and GQ. Fligel, “ Grammatische Schulen der Araber,” p. 204. 


p. 188, 1.18. The Charactere of 30, 10, 5 years, and of 1 year, as 
given by the author, will be found to agree with the Cerrected Table, if 
converted into the sexagesimal eystem. 


Character of 80 years=5d. =54 7 
” 20 years=1 d. 16h.=1 4d. 40’ 
» 5 years=0d, 20 h.=0 d. 50’ 
3 1 year=4d. 8¢h.=4d, 22’ 


The remainder of the rule does not require an explanation. 


p. 188, 1.84. The eecond rule of Alkhazin is as correct as the first 
one, but it is unnecessarily complicated. 

The character of the lunar year ie 433d. It is easy to multiply auy 
number of years by 4 (or half the number by 8), bat for the multiplica. 
tion by 23, Alkhazin has sought for a simplified method. 

3% of a number is nearly equal to # of it, %¢. 2 of a number are more 
than }} of it by yb, of the number, or 3; of half the number, ¢g.: 

2 of 60=223 
# of 60=22 

The difference between both numbers is },t.e. +44 of 60 (or 43; of 30). 

If, therefore, we multiply a number of years by } (i.e. if we multiply 
half the number by 3 and divide the product by 4), we must eubtract 


from the product +}, of the number (or Jy of half the number), in order 
to get 43 of the eame number of yearn. 


Example: 4.2. 90. 
The number of complete years is 89, an odd number. 


ANNOTATIONS. 419 


We subtract 1 year, and write down its character, i.e. 4d. 22, 
Half of the remainder (88)=44. 
L) 44x8=352 4. 
IL) 44x%8=182 : 4=33 4. 


352 a. 
33d. 
6d. (we add 6, taking Friday as epochal day, 
— in agreemeut with Wistenfeld’s Tables, 
sum 391d. whilst Alkhazin adds 5, taking Thurs. 
day as epochal day.) 
—0 4d. 44' (60th parts to the amount of half tne 
number.) 


390d. 16’ 
+4. 22’ (character of the one year.) 


894d. $8’ (these 38' are counted as one day.) 


Therefore 395 : 7=remaindsr 3=C. 


i.¢. a.x. 90 commenced on a Tuesday (ef. Wistenfeld, “ Vergleichungs- 
Tabellen”). 


p. 184, 1.24. The same rule for the ra Yazdagirdi, vide in Delambre, 
s¢ Histoire de l’astronomie du moyeu Age,” p. 41. 


p- 184, 1.33. On the Dra Magorum, cf. Ed. Sachau, “ Zur Geschichte 
und Chronologie von Khwarizm I.” (Sitzungsherichte der Kais. 
Wiener Akademie der Wissenschaften, phil.-hist. Classe,” 1873, tom. 93, 
p- 485). 


p. 184, 1. 42. The author’s report on the intercalation of the ancient 
Persians, vide on p. 38. 


p- 186, 1.27. Ibn-Sankili (the son of Syncellus?) is not known to 
ine from other sources. 


p- 187, 1. 13. ‘Abdallah b. "Ism4‘il is unknown to me, but ‘Abd- 
almacih Allindi seems to he the famous philosopher of this aame. As 
an authority on Sabians he is also quoted by the “ Kitab-alfihrist,” p. 
318, vids also Chwolsolu, * Sabier und Sabismus,” ii. pp. 3 and 56. 


p. 187, 1.37. Toailasée, name of a piece of dress, cf. note at p. 132, 
13, 


p- 188, 1.85. <Aljimida was 2 large village in the district of Wasit, 
hetween this town and Bagra. Yakit, ii. p. 10. 
A Nahr-algdla in Wiasit is mentioned by Yakit, iv. p. 841. 


420 aLptzOnt. 


A place, At-jatfar, I do not know, but Al-je‘Sarf waa a castle in the 
neighbourhood of Semasri, built by the Khalif Almntawakhil, vide 
Yakdt, ii. p. 88. 


p- 188, 1. 44. On the Xesavain, vide a note in “ Hitéb-alfhrist,” p. 
845. 


p. 189,12. Bahér is the Sanskrit word vikdva; of Farkhéra I do not 
know tho origin. The author seeme to think of the Buddhistic mom. 
ments of the Kabul valley. 


p. 189, 1.14. On the secte of Bardesanes and Marcion, of. “ Kitab. 
alfihrist,” i. pp. 838, 339, G. Fliigal, Mini, “Seino Lehre und ceine 
Schriften,” 1862, pp. 159, 161. 


p. 189, 1. 20. The Yermins dpo: are an astrological term, meaning the 
division of each zodiaca) sign into five parts. These parte cland under 
the influence of the planets (except Sun and Moon). They are deter- 
mined differently in different ayetems (that of the Egyptians and that 
of Ptolemy). 


p. 189, 1. 43. The chapter on Mani, cf. with G. Fligel, Mini, “ Sein 
Leben und seine Schriften,” Leipzig, 1862. 


p. 190, 1. 87. Yakdt (iv. p. 317) mentions the canal of Katha, but he 
dosa not mention the name of Mardind (sic.). 


p. 191,11. Yahya b. Alnn‘man, the Christian, is not known to me 
from other sources, 


p. 191,1.19. dJibra’fl >. Noh is not known to me. Yasd&nbakht was 
& Manichwan chief in the time of the Khalif Ma’miin, vide Fligel, 
Mani, pp. 108 and 99, ote. 


p. 191, 1. 44. On this prince Marzub&n b. Rustam, vide note at p. 47, 
1, 82. 


p- 192,16. The “ Kitéb-alfihrist” mentiona two books on Mazdak, 
one by Ibn-almukafia’ (p. 118), and one by ’Abdn b. ‘Abd-alhamid 
(p. 168). In tho same book, p, 842, a chapter on Mazdak. 


p. 192,126. This correspondence took place a.u. 10, cf. Ibn-Hishim, 
pp. 965. 946; Ibn-al’athir, ii, 227; Ibnu-Kutaiba, “ Kitab-alma‘arif,” 
p. 806. ; 


p. 198,18. Ina different form this verae is quoted by Ibn-Kutaiba, 
“Ma‘arif,” p. 206, 


ANNOTATIONS. 421 


p. 198, 1.6. Tho story of the idol that was eaten by its worehippers 
is told by many Arab authors. Cf. “ Muhit-almuhit,” 2. as. 


p. 198, 1. 16. On Babffirid, ef. Shahristani, ed. Cureton, p. 187; 
‘ Kitab-alfihrist,” p. $44. 

The village or town of Sfrdwand is aleo mentioned by Yakat, av. wa 
ii, p. 486, 


p- 194,1. 12. I do not know an ‘Abdallah b. Shu‘ba in the early history 
of the Abbasides. In the “ Kitab-alfihrist,” p. 344, 1. 24, ons of the two 
officers who were eent out in pursuit of Bahafirid, is called ‘Abdallah 
ben Sa'id, and a man of this name ie known as provincial governor of 
the Khalifs Hardin and ’Amin, vide Ibn-al’athtr, vi. pp. 156, 214. 


p. 194, 1. 22. Ibn-alathir, vi. pp. 25, $5, relates the coming forward 
of Almokanna‘ under 4.8. 159, and hie death under «.a. 161. 


p. 194,145. The history of Alhallaj is told by Ibn-al’athir, viii. pp. 
57, 93. ; 


p. 195, 1.33. On tke literature of the Kutub-almaldfim, cf. M. Stein- 
echneider, Apolalypsen mit polemischer Tendenz (“Zeitschrift der 
Dentschen Morgenlindischen Gesellechaft,” xxviii. p. 627 ff). 


p- 195, 1.87. On Almukhtar, who was killed a.n. 67, cf. Ibn-Kutaiba, 
“ Ma‘arif,” p. 204, and [bn.al’athir, iv. p. 220. 


p. 195, 1.42. RadwA ie a mountain in Alhijiz, between Yanbu‘ aud 
Medina, also mentioned by Yakit (ii. p. 790, 1. 20) as the residence of 
Almahdi, Cf. also Allmzwini, “ Kosmographie,” ii. p. 160. 


p. 196,1.1. On the ieland of Barta’il, cf. Alkazwini, “Kosmographie,” 
i, p. 53. 


p. 196,118. Qn the histary of the Karmatians, cf. De Goeje, “ Me- 
moire aur Jee Carmathes du Bahrain,” Leyde, 1862. 


p. 196, 1. 21. Tamaém is mentioned by Yakit, iii. p. 547, a6 a town near 
Hadramant. 


p. 196, 1.44. Abfd-‘Abdallab Al‘adi is not Known to me from other 
sources. An Abh-‘Abdallah Aldds (.sold} a mistake for (hl?) ie 
known in hietory asa chief of the Shi in Dailam, vide Ibn-al’athir, 
viii. p. 424, at a.m. $55, and viii. p. 448. 


p. 197, 1.39. The Sra called Alsumar is Sira $9. These verses were 
also tranblated by de Gooje, “ Mémoire sur lea Carmathes,” p. 51. 


422 atsironi. 


p. 198,11. Head sat Alfaztkir instead of jite} Alghvrakir, and 
from Shalmaghin jes yy instead of b. Shalmatin gisele yy (text, 
p. 214, 1.9). Cf, Yakat, iii, p. $14, and Ibn-alathiy, viii. p. 216. Shal. 
maghfn wae the name of a district belonging to Wabeit. 


p. 199, 1.1. An extract from the autbor’e chapter ou the fostivals of 
the Persians ie given by Alkazwiai, “ Xosmographie,” ii. pp. 79-84; ses 
also Alfarghani, “ Elementa astronomim,” note, pp. 20-42. 


p. 199,120. Iam unable to tell what the author means by the sphere 
of Féréz (not Férdza) and by the sphere of Afranjawi (or Ifranjaw!) on 
p. 208, 1. 15. 


p. 199,128 Satfd b. Alfadl. (vide also p. 209, 1. 27) is not known to 
me from other sources. 


Yakat, ii. p. 584, mentione a place, Dummd, helow Baghdad. Per. 
haps it would. be preferable to read “On the mountain of Dumma,” ete. 


p. 200, 1.8. Kalwadhé, a place not far south from Baghdad. Yakut, 
iy. 801. 

The year in which ‘Adud-aldaula entered Baghdad was a.n. 364, 

On Ab(-alfaraj Alzanjani, cf. note at p. 54, 1.1. 


p. 201, 1. 4 f Ef popular use way more easily determine the sol- 
stices than the equinoxcs, it is just the reverse for their scientific deter- 
mination, as the author himeelf observes on p. 167, 1.2. Cf. Sachau 
and Holeischok, “ Berechnung der Entfernung des Sonnenapogaeums 
von dem Frihlingepankt,” p. 25. 


p. 202,14, Bdshanj. It would be better tc translate “on the nioun- 
tain of Bishenj,” as Bishanj is a village in the district of Herat, not fur 
from the road to Nishaptr, vide Yakdt, i. p. 788, 


p. 203, 1 82. With thie innovation of Shapfr the Hero, cf. p. 209, 
1. 87. 


p. 204, 1. 8. Afdhiar. Apakhtara means in the Avesti noith, not 
south. 


p. 204, 1.51. Manifest in the Avastd (vide alo p. 205, 1. 24) is the 
common mode of quotation in Parsee booke, vide “Buncihish,” ed. Justi, 
Gloseary, 3.0. Sly. 


p. 204, 1. 52. On the G&hanbars, cf. F. Spiegel, “ Avesta,” ti. p. c 
and p. 4, notel; on the etymologies of their namee, vide A. Bezzen- 


ANNOTATIONS, 423 


berger, “ Einiga Avestische Worter und Formen in Géttinger Gelebrte 
Anzsigan,” 1878, p. 251. 


p- 205, 1.18. Cashn-i-niléfar menus the feast of the water-lily. 


-p. 205, 1.25. Avis. The older form of this name is Arshan, nide 
Noeldeke, “ Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenlindischen Gesellschaft," 
xmii. p. 570. 


p 206, 1. 28. Swa was a town half-way between Rai and Hamadiin, 
vide Yakut, iii. p. 24. A town of the name of Andish or Maudish ig not 
known to me. 


p. 207,1. 11. Here something secms to be missing, viz. that Adhar- 
cash n fell on Mihr-Réz, i.2. the 16th of the month. 


p- 208, 1.21. Salman Alfarisi, originally a slave of Persian descent, 
afterwards une of Mubammad’s companions. He died in the beginning 
of the reign of ‘Uthmin. 


p. 208, 1.25. Alérénshahri (also p. 211, 1.19) is not known to me 
from other sources. 


p. 208, 1.28. Shéhin. A mountain of this name is not known to me. 
p- 208, 1. 32. Alkisrawi, vide note at p. 122, }. 14. 


p- 208, 1.33. Hfimin. This place seems to be something like the 
Haméstagdén, an intermediate place between heaven and hell, vide West, 
* Mainyo-i-Khard,” Glossary, p. 97. 


p-. 209, 1. 20. Kusti means girdle, stil] an essential part in the 
costume of a Zoroastrian. 


p. 210, 1.15. Alnasir Al’utrash was a descendant of Ali, who ruled 
for some years in Dailam and Twharistin, and was killed a.u. 304. Aa 
a missionary he had endeavoured to spread Islim among the Zorcastrian 
people of these countries. Weil, ‘‘Geschichte der Khalifen,” ii. pp. 
618-615. 

In the text, p. 224, 1. 9, read yo! Aluigiz instead of SW Alndzir. 


p- 210, 1.18. For a description of the feast of Parwardagin, vile 
F. Spiegel, “ Avesta,” ii., “ Einleitung,” p. ci. 


p- 211, 1. 3-8. The lines between brackete have been taken from the 
Canon Masudicus of Albérini, MS. Elliot (British Museum), fol. 50a. 


p. 211,1.15. Tahir b. Tahir, unknown to me. 


424. ALBIBONt. 


p. 212, 1,28, The name of the feast of the 15th Ab&n is algo in the 
Canon Masudicus (4, 49a, 50a) written g\sw. 


p. 212, 1. 88. The second name of this feast ie written in the Caton 
Masudicua (ff. 49a, 502) J-S\S which ia certainly more correct than JsV. 


p- 218, 1. 11-18. On these festivals, cf. Canon Masudieua, fol. 50a, Il. 
18-22: “On the day of Bahmanja they coo’ in caldrona all sorts of 
plants, kernels, bloaaome, and all eorta of eatable meat. They drink the 
white Babman-root, mized with the purest white milk, mainteining that 
this helps to presorre the body and to defend it against evil. 

“* Barsadkak means ebove sadhak, because it precedes Sadhak by five 
days. It is also called Nawsadha, t.e, the new Sadhak. 

“Sadhak. They aay that on this day the creation of a Aundred aouls of 
the family of Mésbh& and Méshina hed become perfect, and that there- 
fore the day was called Saddak, ic. Hundred-day. According to others 
there ig an interval of 100 days hetween thie day and Nauris, if you 
count days and nights separately, and therefore the day was called 
Hundred-day in the same way a8 Nuwad-Réz” (vide p. 212, 1. 12). 


p. 218, 1. 24. Karaj,a town midway between Hamadén and Ispahin, 
also a village near Kai, and another between Hamadin and NahSwand. 
Yakat, iv. p. 251. ‘ 


p. 214, 1 28. Ab@.Uthman Aljabiz ia the well-known zoologist, 
author of a Inter animatium, Kitab-alhayawdn, who died at Bagra a.k. 
255. 


p. 214, 1.28. ‘Ukhara, « village in the district of Dujail, near Sarifin 
and ’Awfini. Yakit, iti. p. 705. 


p. 214, 1, 38. Aljeihanf, a famous polyhistor, vezir to the dynasty of 
the Samanides, heginning of the 4th century of the Flight, vide Reinand, 
“ @éographie d’Ahoulféda,” i, p. lxiii. 


p. 215,115. Adharkhir4 is not mentioned by Y4kit, nor doea he 
know anything about Kim.Férdz (1. 39). Dard (1. 88) ie not known as 
@ place in Persia; perhaps Dar&hjird was meant. 

p- 216, 1. 22. In the text, p. 229, 1. 16, read » instead of gy as in the 
manuscripte. 


p- 216, 1.81. Dimar-Razi, The epelling of this neme is not quite 
certain. It is mentioned hy Ibn-Haukasl, ed. de Goeje, p. 275, 1. pen. 
It is a place on the road from Jurjay to Khurdafia. 


p- 216,140. Zanj&n, a town in Modia towards Adharbsijdu, not sav 
from Kauwin, Yakdt, ii, p. 948. 


ANNOTATIONS, 425, 


od 


_ p. 217,125, On the Feast of Kardfanndthusra, and the city of this 
name, cf. Yakit, iv. p. 258. 


p. 221,16. Ramueh ie mentioned by Yakit, ii. 737, a8 8 village in 
the district of Buknara, 


p- 221, 1 2L The festivals called Makhiraj fell, according to the 
author’s “Kitab-altafhim ” (MS. of the Roysl Library in Berlin, Peterm. 
67, fol. 62b.), always on the 18th. 


p. 221, 1. 22. Instead of p\él e& the “ Kitéb-altafhim ” has lt} etXa 
ie, the Aghdm or feast of Baikand, cf. Ramush-Aghdm, L 15. 


p. 221, 1. 32. Al-tawfwis, a town in the district of Bukhari, between 


this place and Samarkand, vide Yakit, iii. 555. eSguS is not known 
to me. 


p. 222,15. Shargh (“Kitab-altathim,” fol. 62b), called yr by Ibn- 


Haukal, p. 860, ll. 5, 6, was a large village near Bukhiri, vide Yakit, iii. 
p- 276. 


p. 224, 1, 4. According to the “Kitab-altafhim” (fol. 63a) the 
festival Ajghar fell on the 16th of Cist. 


p. 224,112. Faghrubah is baga= God, and some derivative from the 
root exp (y%). 


p. 224, 1.18. Read Asdd instead of Azdd, and cf. Azditimyat in the 
Avesta. ; 


p. 224, 1.22, Instead of Giri-Réj the “ Kitab-altafhim” has Cir-réz 
dy 


p. 224, 1. 28. Instead of Akhib we+ one may think of reading 
Pedishad telat the night (as  gytp++l=ypye4). 


p. 225, 1.14, Yahya Grammaticus, a Jacobite bishop in Egypt who 
translated from the Greek and wrote philosophical and polemical books, 
lived in the first half of the 7th century of our era. 


p. 225, 1.92. Khéekh I hold to be a derivative from the same rvot 
whence g%\s has sprung (ef. ee\=-4) and vegaccanuha in the Avesta). 


p. 225, 1.80. The following Chorasmian names of the Gihanbirs are 
dialect-varicties of the names of the Avesti iu the following order: 

Paitia-hahya (26-80 Shabréwar). 

Maidhyé-shema (11-16 Tir). 


31 


426 alBinont. 


Maidhyéirya (16-20 Babiwan). 

Maidhyé-raremaya (¥1-15 Ardibahisht). 

Hamacpathwaédaye, whioh is omitted in this place, the five intercalary 
days st the end of Spendirmat. 

Aydthreme (26-80 Mihr). 


aS 225, 1. 88. Whst the author, means by ,=,5t I do not know. 
«s5)) Means young canele, and oS means tvelating to gourds (ES). 


p- 226,110. Whatever the trua Chorasmian form may be, Akhar, 
Akhkhar, or Akhtar, it is cortainly identical with the Porsian yt Akhtar 
szatar. 


p. 226, 1. 14 The author's criticisms on the constellations of the 
single sodiacal signs es represented by Arabians and Chorasmians, 
may be compared with the book of L. Idsler, ‘Untersuchungen iiber 
den Ureprung und dio Bedeutung der Sternnamen,” Berlin, 1809. 


p. 226, 1.21. Adhipactarik is a Bahuvribi compound of two words 
corresponding to tho Persian di =two, and paikar <,=—figare. 


p- 226, 1.87. Abi-Mubammad ‘Abdallih b. Muslim b, Kuiaiba Aldt. 
nawati is in Europs known as Ibn-Kntaiba. Hoe was a native of Kifs, 
and lived as judge in Dinawar. He died a.x. 270. 

According to “ Kitéb-alfihrist,” p. 77, his books were highly ssteemed, 
especially in Aljsbal, te. Media, and to his Jabali or Median character 
Albérint seoms to hsve certain objections (p. 227,116). That one of 
his booke which our author quotes is perhsps identical with that 
mentioned by “ Kitab-alfihrist,” p. 78, 1.3 (past, wll yar Ry) ois), 


p. 227, 1. 23. In Straiz. v. 98, Muhammad blames the 'A‘rdd, #.e. tha 
Arab Bedonuing, in the strongest terms: “Tho *A‘raéb are the worst 
infidels and hypocrites, they do not deserve to learn ths lawa which 
God reveals unto His prophet, but God is all-knowing, all-wise,” ete. 


p. 227, L 82. Three of the Sogdian names resemble the corresponding 
Sanskrit names: 
Proskthapadé= 24 tas (No. 24). 
Revati= a) Wo. 26). 
Maghi= & No. 8.) 
Cf. E. Burgess, Strya-Siddhante, (“‘ Journal of the American Oriental 
Socicty,”’ vol. vi. p. 827 ff.), and A. Weber, “Jenaer Literatur-Zeitung,” 
1877 (? April), p. 211. 


ANNOTATIONS, 427 


The name qry~ in No. 7 is tho catavada of the Avesti; the 
name 23, in No, 20, cf. with the vanajit of the Avesta. 


p. 229, 1. 8. Ahmad was the last prince but one of the ancient 
house of the Shabs of Khwirizm, who undertook a reform of the 
calendar A. Alex 2270=a.p. 959, fe. 18 years before the author was 
horn. Cf. Sachau, Zur Geschichte und Chronologie von Khwarizm I, 
(“Sitzungsberichte der Wiencr Akademic,” phil. hist. Classe, 1873, 
p. 503). A sbort report of this reform is also found in the “ Kitib- 
altafhim,” fol. 68, 


p- 229, 1,18. Alkhariji and Alhomdak? are not known to me from 
other sources. 


p- 230,1.8. According tothe ‘ Kitib-altafhim ” the lst Niusir}i was 
fixed ao a8 to fall on the 2nd Nisin (ghd ye» gl apt). 


p. 280, 1. 26. According te p. 258, 1. 18, the Nile begins to rise ou 
the 16th Haziran, i.e. the 16th Payni. 


p. 233, 1. 5. Sinan h. Thabit died at Baghdad a.4. 331, and his fatber, 
Thabit b. Kurra, a.u. 288. They were both famons as philosophers, 
mathematiciaue, and physicians, both Harrinians, the last representa- 
tives of anvient Greek learning, through whom Greek sciences were 
communicated to the illiterate Arabs, Cf, ‘' Kitab-alfibriat,” pp. $02, 
272. 

Sinin had made a collection of meteorological observations, called 
Kitéd.oPanwd, compiled from ancient sources, and euriched by the 
observations of his father and his own. The work of Sinan hag been 
incorporated by Albérini into his chronology, aud thereby he has pre- 
served to us the most complete Parapeymea of the ancient Greek world. 

With the works of Sinan other worke of a similar character may be 
compared = 

Geménua, "Ewroyey} cis ra hawdueva, the 16th chapter, edited by Halma 

in “ Chronologie de Ptolemée,” Paris, 1819, pp. 79-87. (Cf. Boeckh, 
“Ueber die vierjihrigen Sonuenkreise,” p. 22 ff.) 

Ploleneus, péaas amraviiv dorépev cal awaywyy emoyparidy edited by 
Halma, “Chronologie de Ptolem¢e.” 

Johannes Lydus (“Corpus scriptorum Blistorie Byzantine,” Bonn, 
1887), De mensihue, cap. iv., and De ostentie, in the same vohime, 
pp. 857-882. 

For calondaria of more recent times, vide 

J. Selden, “De synedriis et prefecturis juridicis veterum Ebrxorum 
1784 (containe three calendariz). 


428 Aatninini. 


Lobstein, * Nachrichten und Aussiige aug den Handschriften der Kel. 
Bibliothek in Paris,” i pp. 415-424. 

Vide Hammer, “Geschichte der Osmanischen Dichtkunst,” i. pp. 
76-81, 

Fleiecher, “ Abulfedm Historia anteislamica,” p. 163 f. 

Kazwini, “ Kosmographie,” ii. p. 75 ff. (extract from Albérini). 

A calendarium of Spanich-Arabic origin has been edited by R. Dozy, 

“Le Calendrier de Cordoue,” Leyde, 1873. 

Regarding the authorities quoted by Sinén, as Euctemon, Eudoxua, 
Philippne, Metrodorus, Dositheus, Conon, Casar, etc, I refer tha 
reader to the oxcellent work of A. Boeck, “ Ueher die vierjahrigen 
Sonnenkrieae der Alten, voraiglich den Eudorischon,” Berlin, 1868. 


p. 283,1.9. By Bpisemasia trwypzecia I have translated the word 
Naw’ oy, 

According to Albéranf, p. 839, 1.4, Naw’ meana the rising of a Lunar 
Station. The meteorclogical influence of thie rising is called Barii; the 
influence of the sinking of a Lunar Station is called Naw. Albérini 
uses the word Naw’ in either of these two meanings. 

Comparing the conflicting opinions of the Amb philologiste on thie 
word (vide W. Lane, “ Zeitechrift dor Deutschen Morgenlandischen 
Gegellechaft,” iii. p. 97 ff.). Iam led to believe that Naw’ ie an ancient 
Arabic word, probably much used in ante-Muhammsdan times, the 
meaning of which was no longer fully and distinctly understood by 
the Muslim Arabe. Afterwards when the Greek calendars were to bo 
translated into Arabic, the word Naw’ was used to render the Greek 
éreonpoive, a8 the comparison of Sinin’s compilation’ with Geminus, Pto- 
lemy, and Johannes Lydue shows, The single days of these calendars 
do not correspond with each other, but the technical terms are every- 
where the same. 


p. 284, 1. 40. Ibn-Khurdadhbih, vide note at p. 50, 1. 26. 


p. 235,119. Ispahbadhin, a town in Tabaristan, two miles distant 
from the Caspian Sea. Further inland in the mountains the castle 
Ték, with caves and wells in the neighbourhood. Cf. Yakit, iii. pp. 
490, 491; Kazwini, ii. p. 270,1]. 10 ab inf. 


p. 238, lL. 24. ‘Ali b. Aljahm was a famous poot at the time of 
tho Khalif Almntawakkil, who died au. 249. Ag ho had made 
eatirieal verscs on the Ehalif, he fled, and was lunted about. At 
last, after having heen wounded in a fight with his pursuers, in the 
agonies of expiring he is said to have recited this verse. Cf. Ibn- 
Khallikin, ed Wistenfeld, No. 473. 


ANNOTATIONS, 429 
p. 288, 1.89. Yahya b. ‘Ali ie not known to me from other sources. 


p- 243, 1.31. Abi-Bakr Husain Altammir, a contemporary of Razi, 
who died a.n. 320, is also mentioned by Wistenfeld, “ Geschichte der 
Arabischen Aerzte und Naturforscher,” p. 46, 1. 8. 


p. 245, 1 29. ‘Abdallah b. ‘All, a mathematician of Bukhéra, ia not 
known to me. 


p. 247, 1.2. On the fire as a spherical body within tho lunar sphere, 
ef. aleo Kazwini, “ Koamographie,” ii. p. 90; translated by Dr. Ethé, 
p. 185, 


p. 247, 1.87. On the correspondence of Albérint with Ibn-Siné, cf. 
my edition of the text, “ Binleitung,” p. xxxv. 


p. 248, ll. 17, 31, 84. In the text, p. 257, Ul. 16, 23, and p. 258, 1. 2, 
read IJ) inetead of tay Tho word (jbo J,! if a genuine Greck 
word, might be read in various ways, but I hold it to be a mietake 
fox cpynS3.) Eudozus. 


p. 250, 1. 15. Mnhammad b. Mityfr (also p. 258, 1. 26) is not 
known to me from other sources. 


p. 251, 1. 33, Abd-Yahyii b. Kun&ea, the author of a famous Kitab- 
al’anwi, was born at Kifa an. 128, and died at Bagdad a.a. 207; 
vide “ Kitih-alfihrist,” p. 70. 


p. 252, 1. 6ff. The following discussion on the circumstances under 
which water rises, is of a technical nature, the due appreciation of 
which I muet leave to physical scholars. 


p- 255, 1. 23. The word Dak} does not occur in any Arabie dic- 
tionary. If the writing ie correct, it is probably a word of foreign 
origin. 


p. 255, 1.34. Kimak, or Kaimak, a province of the Chinese empire, 
inhabited by Turkish nomades, vide Kazwini, “ Koamographie,” ii. 
p. 895, and Ibn-Khurdadbih, in “Journal Asiatiqne,’ 1865, pp. 267- 
268, 


p. 256, 1.5. Alfarya Altaditha is not known from other sources. 


p. 256, 1.10. Mibrjan was the ancient name of Isfard’in, a village 
between Jurjin and Nishapir, also the name of a village in the district 
of Isfara’fn and of another village between Ispahin and Tabs. Cf. 
Yakat, i. p.246; iv. p. 699. 


430 anBironi. 
p. 258, L. 29. Hayawaniyya-sect, not known to me. 


p. 261,1. 39. Abai-Nu’és, the famous poet at the time of the Khalif 
Hirtn, died a.u. 199, 


p. 261, 1 42. ‘Ali b. ‘Ali is not known to me from other 
sources. 


p. 262, 1. 87, Naubokht. If the text is correct, and vo must not 
rather read Ién-Neudakdé, thia man may have been the father of Abi- 
Sab] Alfagdl b. Naubakht, librarian to the Ehalif Havin, and a great 
astrologer. Cf. “ Kitib-alfihrist,” p. 274. 


p. 268, 1. 21. Salantiyya, a village in the district of Himsa, Yakit, iii, 
p. 123, 1.18; p. 124, 1.1. 


p. 266, 1.40. Thu'dlibe. This reading may seem doubtful, as no 
place of thie name is mentioned anywhere. Tho acarest approach is 
Thafdlibdt, in Yakut, i. p. 925. 


p. 268, 1. 1. As useful material for ths explication of the festal 
calsndar of the Jaws ths following works havs been used: 

Canon Masudicus, MS, Elliot (British Musoum, ff. 8?b-98a). 

Abulfede, “ Historia anteislamica,” od. Fleischer, p. 156 ff. 

Bartolocci, “ Bibliothecs Rabbinica,” ii, 553 ff. 

A. G. Wachner, “ Antiquitates Ebracorum,” Gottingen, 1742, sect. v. 

T. C. G. Bodenschats, “‘ Kirchlichs Verfassung der heutigen, sonderlich 
der teutschsn Judsn,” Erlangen, 1748, vol. ii. pp. 87, 105. 

MM. Brick, “Rabbinische Cacremonialgebrauche,” Beeslau, 1887. 

myn nbxw ed. Jo. Mayor, Amstelodami, 1724 (cap. xii). 

MIN POD td est: “Codex Talmudicus de Jcjunio, ex Hebrao 
Sermone In Latinum versus commentariisque illustratus a Dauicle 
Lundio Succo.” Trajecti ad Rhenum, 1694. 


p. 268, 1.20. Read KT instead of 'V}. It isa Hebrew form Jes 
meaning profrueus, ie. advanced or postponed; feminine: FPITT. 


p. 269, 1 1. For the fasting of Gedalya, of. 2 Kings xxv. 25, and 
Jorem, xi, 2. 


p. 269, 1. 20. The following story in a Hebrew garb is found in J. Zed- 
nar’s “ Answahl historischer Sticke aus hebracischen Schriftetelisrn,” 
Berlin, 1840, pp. 6-11, as was pointed out to ms by Prof. H. Strack. 


p. 269, 1.27. Rend “ quietly” instead of “folowing the course of the 
river.” 


ANNOTATIONS, 431 


p- 270, 1. 29, Fon chal? celebrate a feast, oto, Tho words len \ppoy 
(text, p. 277, 1. 11), can only he explained as a too litera) translation of 
2y ANN ONAN in Levit. xxiii. 41. 


p- 270, 1.88. Abt-Tei Alwarrik (alao p. 278, 1. 22) ia mentioned in 
“ Kitab-alfihrist,” p. 888, aa one of those who in public professed Islam, 
but in reality were heratics. 


p. 270, 1. 39. On the same day (i.e. the 21st) is the Feast of Congrega- 
tion. This ig a mistake. Congregation, or my falls on the 22nd 
Tishri, ie the following day. Canon Masudi cts gives the following 
series : 

2st Tishri=pay 

29nd ,, =IVWYy 

Brd 4, =ckyt xe 
Cf. Bodenschatz, ii. p. 285. 

The word Hérhdre (1. 40) I cannot explain. Tho court of the temple 
is called Pr3yi7 and the place where the willows are gathered is called 
NYY (Mishns) or NY (Talmud Palgstinensis). 

Canon Maaudicus (fol. 38a) saya : 

Ct Je pd ew We sey 
i.e. “The feast of Arabhi consists of a procession round the altar.” The 
wast of the text is the Hebrew ying. 


p. 270, 1. 43, The feast of benediction is called min Mima, vide 
‘Waehner, v. p. 111, and Bodenschatz, ii. p. 245. 


p.271,L 14 Betwecn the 8th and 18th of thie month. As possibly 
between the 8th and 18th there is no Monday at all, it may happen that 
this fast-day does not occur in some year (if the rule is correct). 


p. 271, 1.21. This fast-day falls according to Megillath-Ta‘anith on 
the 7h Kisléw, according to Waehner and Bodenschatz on the 28th 
Kisléw. Cf. on the origin of this sasting, Jerem. xxxvi. 27-32. 


p. 271, 1.35. The following story occurs also in Abulfede, “ Hist, 
anteislamica,” pp. 160-162. Instead of the (p»yvs“st of the manu- 
acripts, Canon Masudicus (fol. 88a) has yepbist ie. Antiochus, and so 
T have translated. 

In the text (p. 278, 1. 11) the words So od yy gl Jt are a rather 


short and incorrect expression for S21.) dgls gel se ay gl ol 
arash, 


482 atptrént. 


p. 272, 1.17. Ptolemy is here called Talmd, as if the initial p were 
the Coptio article. In the Mogillath-Ta‘anith, which fizee this fast-day 
on the 8th Tabeth, he is called qSary MSM (cap. 12). 


p. 272,1. 80. According to Megillath-Ta‘anith, cap. 12, this fast-day 
falls on the 8th Shubit. 


p. 278, 1.17. In the text, p. 279, 1. 20, there is a Yecuna, which I 
have filled up with the help of Canon Masudicus, fol. 87b. and 


Waehner, v, p. 112. 


p. 275, 1.8. In the “Kitib-altafhim ” (Cod. Berolin. fol. 58b), the 
author says :_nQ\ ay! 18D aay ; and in the Canon Masudicus (fol. 88y) 
he saya: Ptptle poll 425 pS! pglt Wo (oa, In the same work, 
fol, 87v, the feast is called U1 42, Accordingly the reading S scema 
to be preferable to that of KX. 

This word Kas seems in some way to be connected with the Syrise 

which means middle of the month, indicating the 15th, on which 
this feast falle. 


p. 275,112. Thirty men, a mistake for thirty thousand. Tho Canan 
Maeudiews (£. 88b) bas correctly Jey oS gy. Cf£. 1 Sam. iv. 10. 


p. 275, 1 15. Canon Maeudicus (£. 87b) mentions a feast alao for 


the 15th Tyar: 

tgeal Big Weal gy seftall Grad vee 
“The feast of the Smal) Passover, also the day of fast in commemo- 
ration of the death of Samuel.” 


p. 275, 1.19. The plural eys= (text, p. 281, 1. 16) scema to be a form 
coined by Albérint from a singular g= i.e. the Hebrew 57, for the pure 
Arabie word g= bas the plural a= 

In the Canon Masudicts the author givea two days to the Feast of 
Congregation, the second of which is called 8° IS) aye tc. Foating of 
the Firat-fruit. 


p. 275, L 26. With this biblical quotation, ef. Exod. xuiti, 14-17; 
Exod, xxxiv. 22, 23; Dent, xvi. 16. 4 

The reading of the MS, (text, p. 281, 1. 20), p%lg= is unintelligible 
to me, My conjecture Sele must be explained as the infinitive of 
a verb g= a denominative formation from g==3N. 


ANNOTATIONS, 433 


p. 276, 1. 12. The Megillath-Ta‘anith, cap. xii. has the following 
note on thia fast-day : 


TAY TH AA PTA Ja ST 8a Ais 


p. 276, 1.18. There are two unlucky days in the Jewish calendar, 
the 17th Tammnz and the 9th Abh, A short review of the disastara 
that have happened on these two days is given in the Massekheth- 
Ta‘antth, p. 55. 

The text (p. 282, 1. 11) is not quite correct in the manuscripta. With 
the text as given by me, cf. Canen Masudicus (ff. 37b 88b): 


PSI Ld pelts} Yo ctdart pyo 


p. 276, 1.87. With the story of the lamp, cf. 2 Chron, xxix. 7, 
and Megillath-Ta‘anith, cap, xii. pp. 113, 122. 

The name of the prophet as given in the manuscript, gp etc., seoms to 
be corrapt. There was at that time a prophet ‘Odéd (2 Chron. xxviii. 9), 
and Isaia (feais vii. and vili.), bnt no prophet of sucha name. 

In the Canon Masudicue (f. 89a), the author relates that it was the 
king Abaz pee jet who extinguished the lamp. Therefore I have 
changed ypet into jpt and “ Ahaz the prophet” scems to be a mistake 
for “ Akas the king.” 


p. 277, 1.4. There is no lacuna as I bave indicated in the text, 
p. 283, 1.3. 

This fast-day is fixed by some on the 7th Elal, by othera on the 17th 
(vide Bodenschatz, Wachner, and Megillath-Ta‘anith). If, therefore, the 
author says that some people place this fast.day within the last week of 
the month, I know nothing by which to test this assertion. 

Tn later times there was a feat-day on the last of Elil as an atonement 
for the sins of the past year, but this is an institute of moderntimes. Cf 
Bodenschatz, p. 88, § 2, 1.1. 

Also in the Canon Masudicus the Fasting of the Spies (on the 7th Elil) 
is the last of the feast- and fast-days of the Jewish year. Therefore the 
words (text, p. 283, 1. 3) “ nicks,” etc. are to be cancelled, 


p- 277,110. To this table of Dehiyyéth may be added that ‘Arabhi 
can never be + é.a. Saturday. 

The reason why the feast-day cannot fall on certain days of the woek 
is this, that thay wanted to prevent two non-working days from imme- 
diately following each other, as this might interfere with the practical 
welfare of the pcople. Besides, certain feasts cannot fall on a Sabbath, 
because they require a certain amount of work (eg. the burning of 
Haman, etc.). 


434 ALBiront. 


p. 877, 29. The words 4&3} 53 (text, p. 289, 1. 11) are the rendoring 
of the bible-worde Wir yp ; yn} wh Cf. P. de Iaganie, 
“Materialion mur Kritik und Geschichte des Pentateuchs,” ii. p. 184, 
Tho Peshftti has trauslated taus: Joo Jataoe peje bejeo pao 
$20 ern Joou Les00 bajo taza? L;2070 Laws « 


p- 280. In the text, pp. 286, 287, I read the ¢ in the fourth columns, 
a8 Jl te impossible. 

It atands always with t which the MSS. write with blackink. It 
ought, however, to have been written with red ink, since a year beginning 
with \ is impossitle. Therefore, in order to indicate what elsewhere is 
indicated by the red ink, the letter c= J\a* has been addad. 

FImpoosible means that a year beginning on euch a day is a calen- 
darian impoasibility. ; 

Necessary means that in a year beginning on euch a day there ia 
no possibility of a PIT, é.<c. of postponing or advancing, 

Possible means that @ year beginning on euch 2 day is possible, if the 
year be py (Imperfect) and a common year, whilst it is impossible, if it 
bo py aud 2 leap-year, and vice verad, 

The single numbers of the table may easily be checked in this way : 

1. The {intervals between New-Year’s Day and Kippiir, #.c. the 10th 
Tishri and ‘Arabha, ie. the 2lst Tishri, are the same in every kind of 
year. 

2. The intervals betwoon New-Year’s Day and the other three festivals, 
Pirin, Pésah, end ‘Avérath, are different in different years. 

In a common year— 

Périn is in $7] the 161st, in 5 the 162nd, in yj the 168rd day of the 
year. 

Péeoh, in py the 191st, im 5 the 192nd, in y the 193rd day. 

‘Aeéreth, in FY the 24st, in 5 the 242nd, in yp} the 243rd day. 

Tn # teap-year— 

Périm is in yt the 19lat, in 5 the 192nd, in yj the 193rd day of the 
year. 

Pésah, in py the 21st, in 5 the 222nd, in yj the 223rd day. 

‘Aséreth, in FY tho 27 1st, in 2 the 272nd, in pj the 278rd day. 

These sums of daya are to be divided by seven, and the remaindors 
represent the distances from New-Yea~’a Day. 

To this table the author has referred the reader already on p. 153, 
1,15. It shows why two intermediate years, ie. + cannot follow each 
other, in this way : 

Of the seven years 5 only those two are possible that begin with TIL 
and Y. 

1. If, now, after acommon year 2 beginning with IL., another year > 


ANNOTATIONS. 485 


were to follow, it would begin with a VIL, Saturday, and that is impos- 
sible, as the table shows. 

¥ after a leap-year 3 beginning :with IMI, another year 5 were to 
follow, it would begin with If., which is again impossible, as the table 
shows, 

2. If after a ycar 5 beginning with V. another year 5 were to follow, 
it would begin with EI. in a common year, with IV. in a leap-year; and 
both cases are impossible, as the table shows. 


p. 288, 1.14 For the emendation of the names of saints in the 
following chapter, I havo used the Menologium Qrecorum, jussu Basilii 


Imperatoris olim editum Graco et Latino. Studio et opera Albani. 
Drbini, 1727. 


p- 283, 1.85. Regarding the degrees of the clergy of tho Oriental 
churches, cf. Assemani, “ Bibliotheca Orientalis,” iii. pp. 788-790; also 
Ami Boué, “ La Turquie @ Europes,” iii, p. 421; Maurer, “Das Grie- 
chische Volk,’ Heidelberg, 1835, i. pp. 389, 403, 410. 


p. 284, 1. 16. Abi-alhusain "Ahmad b. Albnsain Al’ahwazi. An 
author of this name is mentioned by Haji Khalifa, iv. p. 81. 


p- 284, 1. 20. There are certain Greek names which I have not been 
able to decipher, Xpvoxs (1. 22), axcwors (1. 89), and some others. The 
answer to these questions I must leave to those who are intimately 
acquainted with the archwology of the Byzantine empire. 

The word y-s—+ might be a corruption for rie yuperioxoros, but 
in thet case the explication which Abd-alhusain gives is not correct. 
According to the explication, one would expect the word ’Apyipavipirys. 

On wapexoipadpevos, vide Du Cunge, “ Lexicon infimm grecitatis,” where 
it is explained as dpxcevvodxos, xparrdairos. 

A word foydrup (p. 285, 1. 4), I do not know. It scems to be a deri- 
vation from pdya present and stipend, vide Du Cange {rogator). 

On the payAaPirys, cf. Reiske, commentary to ‘‘ Constantini Porphyro- 
geniti, De cerimoniis aul,” ii. pp. 53-55. 

On recoapaxorrdptcs, a soldier who received 40 aurei as atipend, etc. vide 
Du Cange. 


p- 285, 1. 28. Muhammad b. Masa b. Shakir, tha eldest of three 
brothers, all great scholara in mathematical and technical sciences for 
whom Greek books were translated into Arabic. Muhammad died 4.5. 
259, vido “ Kitéb-alfibrist,” p. 271. 


p: 285, 1.26. ‘Ali b. Yahya, cf. note at p. 38, 1. 5. 


486 aLBiztni. 


p. 286,1.81 The reading Cornutue ia not beyond all doubt. A saint 
of this name is mentioned in the “Menologium Gracorum,” at 12th 


Sept. 


p. 287,1.8. Johannes the Father seems to be identical with Johannes 
Scholasticns, who died a.v. 578, ag Patriarch ef Constantinople. Ho 
had made a new arrangement of the canozea of the church. Of. K. Haso, 
“Kirchengeschichte” (8th edition), p. 149. 


p. 287, 1.14. On this Modestus, vide Le Quion, " Oriens Christianus,”” 
ii, 102 #. p, 258, He was Patriarch after a.n. 614. 


p. 287,115. The word Sisin is perhaps to be changed into Sis, vide 
p. 289, 1. 40. 


p. 287,117. Tho opithet (fiby!,5! seems to bave been derived from 
the Gyriao Bible, where Joseph is called ga\0 Luke ruiii. $1. 


p. 287,1.19. Alma’min b. Abmad Alsulam? Alharawi (also p. 297, 
], 25) is unknown to me. 


p. 287, 1.89. Abi-Rih is not known to me from other sources. 


p. 288, 1.34, Every child is born, etc. On thie well-known tradition, 
ef. L, Krehl, “ Ueber die koranische Lehre von der Predestination,” 
p. 99 Gn “Berichte der- Kgl. Sichsischen Geeellschaft der Wissen- 
échaften,” hist.-phil. Classe, 1870, the lst July). 


p. 289, 1.89, The reading PBelesye is entirely conjectural. The word 
might also be read Blasius (vide Calendar of Armenian saints, Asse- 
mani ‘Bibliotheca Orientalis,” iii. 1, p. 645, at 10th Shubat), but Blasine 
Episcopus was killed by the Romans, not by the Persians, 


p- 292, 1.12. Jérd-roses, the most famous of the east, so called from 
Jar, a town in Persis, vide Yakit, ii. p. 147 ; Kazwini, “ Kosmographic,” 
ii, 121. 


p. 298, 1.10. The author seems to mean that two straight lines, 
catting each other in the middle, and connected at the bottom by 
another straight line give the Cufic form of ths word no, te. X, as it 
frequently occurs in monumental writing. 


pP. 298, 1, 80. On the wood Paonia, cf. Kaswini, “ Kosmographie,” 
i. p. 260. 


ANNOTATIONS. 437 


p. 295, 1. 15. Dadhfshi‘, author of a er mmentary on the Gospel, 
is not known to me from other sources. 


p. 295, 1, 25. A Cyriacus anachorsta ie mentioned in the “ Menolo- 
gium Geacorum,” ot 29th Spt. 


p. 296, 1.18. Dometivs is mentioned in the “ Menologium Grecorum,” 
at 7th Ang., and Thuthaed (1, 26) ib. at 5th Sept. 


p- 297, 1. 29. “With his tale regarding the blood of John, cf. Ibn- 
al’athir, i. pp. 214-216, algo iv. p. 140. 


p. 297, 1.36. Cf. with this Tabari, traduit par Zotenberg, i. p. 569; 
Tbn-al’athir, i. pp. 208, 215. 


p- 298, 1.18. Church of the Sweepings dled} SS ig a corruption of 
Role} dueeS Church of the Resurrection, invented by Muslim malice. C£ 
Farghani, “ Elementa astronomin,” ed. Golius, p. 138. 


p. 298, 1.15. Ansong 40 martyrs who were killed by the Persians, 
Maruthas (Assemani “ Bibl. Orisnt.” i. pp. 192,198) mentions Paul, 
Sabinus (not Sabinianus) and 1Qg. Besides Tatta also the form ad 
Tatlin oocure, ib. i. p. 190, col. 1, 


p. 299. The following chapter contains the computation of Easter, 
as Albéraini had learned it from the Chrietians of his time. 

The Easter which he means is the wécxa cravpurcdy, not the méoxa 
dvacracysy; cf. Augusti, “ Christliche Archaeologie,” ii, p. 30. 

The chief elements of this computation ars the following: 

1. Easter depends upon the Jewish Paseover, i.e. the full moon of 
the Jewish month Niein, 

2, Counting 13 lunation, i.e. 44d. 7 bh. 10' backward from the full 
moon of Nisin, you find the nsw moon of the precsdixg month. 

8. The Monday nearest to this new moon, if it does not fall earlier 
than the 2nd Shubat nor later than the 8th Adhir, is the beginning of 
Tent. 

4, Lent ends on the 49th day from the beginning. It begins on 
Monday and ende on a Sunday. Eauster lies between this Sunday and 
the preceding Sunday, i.e. Palmarum. 

To use modern language: The mdcxa otavpucizey was celebrated on 
some day between Palm Sunday and Ezster Sunday, but on what 
particular day it was celebrated the author does not explain. 


438 atBiront, 


p. 299, 1.27. It may seem doubtful whether I have correctly inter. 
ptoted the word Wbyhaal (text, p. 302, 1.18), JZndictio ie certainly not 
identical with the Great Cycle of 28 years. 


p. 900, 1. 4. The Jews count 3,448 years between Adam and Alex- 
ander. If you divide thie sum by 19, you get 9 as a remainder, i.e 
the first year of the Ha Alesandri ie the 10th year of the cyole. 

The division of 5180 by 19 gives a remainder of 19, t.e. the first 
year of the Zira Alezandri is, according to the Christians, she 18th 
year of the cycle. 


p. 800, L. 8. The whole passage, from “it ie also well known,” ete, 
(line 8), till you get as remainder 5180 years (aa the interval be- 
tween Adam and Alerander),” .in the Arabic text, p. 802, 1. 17 
GEN erst yy) tll p, 908, 1 2 (ypls, My GT dave 0), soeme 
to be a later interpolation. 


p. 800, 1.9. Khalid b. Yazid ie considered as the father of alchemy 
among the Arabe, cide Haji Khaltfa, v. p. 280. 


p. 800, 1. 80, The EHaster-limits extend over 28 daye, t.¢. 
from 2let Adhér to 18th Nisin, ~ 
The limita of Lent extend over 48 days, t.e. 
from the Q@nd Shubé; to 22nd Adhér, 


or 
from the 8th Adhér to 25th Nisan. 
The smallest interval between the beginning of Lent and Easter is 
42 days ; the greatest, 49 days, 


p. 801,148. By 44 4d. 7h. 6min. tho author means I} eynodical 
month. One synodical month is reckoned at 
29d. 12h. 44, 


p. 301, 1. 86. If full moon falls on a Sabbath, the 2let Adhar, 
count 44d. 7h, 6, 2.45 days backward, and you find the new moon of 
the preceding month, viz. the 4th Shubat, a Wednesday in a common 
year, a Thursday in a le:p-year. 

The next Monday is the preceding one, the lst Shubit in a leap. 
year, the 2nd Shubit in a common year. 

As, however, the let Shubat lies before the Terminus Jejunii, the year 
in question must be a common year. 


p- 802,1.1. If the Jewish Paseover fell into Nieiu, and the Jewieh 
year was @ leap-year, it might seem doubtful to the Obristians 


ANNOTATIONS, 439 


whether they were to make the new moon of Adhir I. (ie. Shubat, 
February) or that of Adhir IL (ec. Adhar, March) the basis of their 
computation of the beginning of Lent. The author gives the computa- 
tions for both cases. 

I. Computation on the basis of the new moon of Adhar IT. (Adhfr) of 
a leap-year : 

Hf full moon falla on the 18th of Nisin, a Sunday, count 44d. 7h. 
6’ backward, and you find the new moon of Adhifr IL, or the Syrian 
Adhé&r (March), viz. the 5th Adhar, a Friday. 

The next Monday is the following one, the 8th Adhir, which is 
the latest day of the Terminua Jefrnii. 

II. Computation on the basis of the new moon of Adhar I. (Sbubat) 
in a leap-year : 

If full moon falls on the 18th Nisin, a Sunday, count 23 lunations, 
ie. 73d. 19h. 50° backward, and you find the new moon of Adbir 
Primus or Shubit, viz. the 5th Shubat, a Thursday, if the Christian year 
is @ common year. 

The next Monday is the preceding one, i.e. tho 2nd Shubat. 

This calculation is impossible, fer the reason which the author states 
on p. 802, JL 14-16. 

If the corresponding Christian year is a leap-year, we find the 4th 
Shubat, a Thursday, to be the beginning of Lent. 

The next Monday is the preceding one, de. the let Shubiy, and this 
date is impossible, as being outside the Terminus Jejunti (the 2nd 
Shubat to 8th Adhar). 


p. 802, 1. 80. In the genuine 20 canones of the Synod of Nicwa 
there is no mention of Haster. In the Arabic collection of 84 canones 
the 21st refers to Easter (vide Mansi, Collectio nova,” ii. p. 1048), 
but this collection is an invention of later times, vide Hefele, “ Theolo- 
gische Quartalschrift,” Tiibingen, 1851, p. 41. 

That, however, the bishopa of the Synod of Nicwa had handled 
the Easter-question, is evident from the letter of Constantine, vide 
* Kusebii vita Constantini,” iii. p. 18. 

To decide the question whether Albérint is right in ascribing the 
authorship of this Chronicon to Eusebius and the Synod of Nicwa, I 
must leave to soholara in Church History. 


p. 808. This table contains the beginninge of Lent for a period of 
532 years (i.e. 19x28). It resembles the period of Victorins, cf. 
Ideler, “ Handbuch der mathematischen und technischen Chronologie," 
ii, p. 278, 


p- 804, 1.8. This fragment treats of Still-Friday in the Haster-week. 
Of. Augueti, ‘*Christliche Archacologie,” ii. p. 186. 


440 aLeteont. 


p. 804,1.5. New Sunday, or Daminica nova, Dominica in albis, also 
Diea neophytaram, of, Augusti, ii. p. 802. 


p. 804, L 88. The canon to whioh the author refers ie this: ‘“Quo- 
ninm sunt quidam qui in dia Dominioo gonuflectunt ot ipsis diebus 
pentecostes, ut omnia similiter in omni parochia serventur, visum est 
Sancts: Synodo ué stantes Deo orationes effundant.” This is the last 
(the 20th) of the canones of the Synod of Nicma, vide Mansi, “ Col- 
lectio concilioram nova,” ii. p. 678, § 20. Hence it is evident that 
Albérinf used the ancient and genuine canones of this Synod, not the 
later epurions collection, vide Hefele, Acten des ersten Concils zu Nicaea, 
“ Theologiache Quartalechnift, Tibingen,” 1851, p. 41. 


p- 804, 1. 88. On the bacda? (hoo, and fom? Word, cf. Asse- 
mani, “ Bibliotheca orientalie,” ii. p. 805, and iii. 2, p. 882; also Aota, 
iii, 2-8. 


p. 805, 1.4. The Table of Fasting of seven columns, mentioned in this 
place, is not found iu the manuscripta. It must have fallen out. 


p. 806. With the chapter on the festivals of the Nestorians, cf.a 
similar chapter in Assomani, “Bibiiotheca Orientalis,” iii. p. 2, and 
“ Abulfeds Historia anteislamica,” p. 162 ff. 


p-808,1.8. Johannes Cascarensis and Phetioz were killed in Hulwin 
between a.n. 480 and 455, vide Ascemani, * Bibl. Orient.” ii. p. 408, 
col. L. 

Phetion Martyr is mentioned by Asseiani, iii. 2, p. 386, on the 25th 
October; vide alao VW. Wright, “ Catalogue of the Syriac manuscripts of 
the Beitish Museum,” part iii. p. 1134, No. 66. 

Yékt (G. p. 688) mentions s “ Monastery of Phetion” ged 20. 


p. 308, 1.8, Ihavo not been able to decipher the name ‘ess. 


p. 808, L126. Thename Kita is known to me from Yakit, ii. p. 689, 
where a Monastery of Kdté 3 yo is mentioned. 


p. 808,119, The Syrisc form of the name Solomonis (mother of the 
Maccabmans) is aaa, vide W. Wright, “ Catalogue,” ete. iii. p. 1187, 
col. 1. 7 


p. 808, L 25. 2 do not know a saint of the name of \auy or eyo. 


p. 308, 1. 87. Tho word ,++1 esems to be acorruption. In the Canon 
Masudicus (fol. 470) a Friday of Eliezer ys} is mentioned, bat this 
Friday falls 40 daye after the beginning of Lent. 


ANNOTATIONS. a | 


p. 808, 1 40. The two aainte mentioned in this paragraph are uct 
known tome. ‘«p maybe Lay Bereshyé, é.c. Berekhyd, and a martyr 
ehild, the sen of Cyrus, ia mentionod by W. Wright, “ Catalogue,” etc., 
iii. p. 1186, col. 2. 


p. 309,11. Two Armenian martyrs of the names ef Ourenius and 
Surinus are mentioned under the llth March by Assemani, ‘ Bibl. 
Orientalis,” iii. 2, p.650. The name Duranis occure, ib. p. 658, under 
the 2nd October. 


p. 809, 1. 26. The commen year is here called Ayo A (text, p. 311, 
1.18), This term the author musthave borrowed from the source whence 
he took the information of this chapter, fer everywhere eleo he calle the 
commen year Sang drs, 


p- 810. This table is based upon tha beginning of Lent, which in 
@ commen year falla between the 2nd Shubit--8th Adhar; in a leap- 
year, betwecn the 8rd Shnhat—Sth Adhir. The festivals keep certain 
invariable distances from this date. The Latin numerals at the top ef 
the table denote the week-days on which tbe single festivals Sall. 


p. 811, 1.7%. The reason why Christmas and the Commemoration of 
Our Lady Mary should not immediately follow each other scoms to 
be thia, that each twe feasts must he separated not only by 2 night, 
but by one complete day. The idea seema to be this, that sach 
feaat requires a certain preparation en the preceding day. 


p. 311, lL. 11. The ‘Ibadites are the Arab tribe to which the poets 
‘Adi b. Zaid and Zaid b. ‘Adi belonged, vide Masudi, “ Prairies d’or,” 
iii, p. 205, and Caussin, “Essai sur l'histoire dea Arabes avant IIs. 
lamisme,” ii. 143. 


p- 811, 1.18. The expression QT qwt ad) Gee (text, p. 314, 1. 8) 
waa coined upon the pattern of @ word of the Prophet, vide Ibn-Al'athir, 
i. p. 852, 1. 16. 

The name ‘Axnkafir is mentioned by Freytag and Muhit-almubit, not 
by tbe Turkish Kimis ; it occurs also in Hamza Isfabini, text, p. 112, 
1.6; translation, p. 88. 


p. 811, 1.22. On the Ninive-fast, cf. Assemani, “ Bibliotheca Orient.” 
iii. 2, p. 887. 


p: 313. This table is based npon the cycle of 28 Julian years, after 
which every date falls again on the same week-day. 

Ir the Column of the number I have morked the leap-years by a 
star. 


30 


442 atpintnt. 


As all the festivals of this table are attached to certain woek-days, 
they wander about within the space of 7 days. 

In common years each festival falls one day, in leap-yeara tna daye, 
later than in the preceding. 

The double column of numbers under the head Commemoration of 
Solomoute, is to be explained in this way : 

The first column representa the common computation of thie dey, 
whilst the second column reprosants tho practice of the people of 
Bagdad, who made it fall a week later. So, according to Canon He- 
sudicus (fol. 46b). 

The numbers of the column Feast of Dair-altha‘élib are corrupt in 
the manuscript ; I have computed them according to the rule given on 
p. 808, It, 26-80. The numbers I. 29, etc, mean that in this year the 
feast ie celehrated twics, on the Ist Tishrin I. and on the 29th fld), 
whilet the blank meane that in thie year the feast ia not celebrated 
at all, which is the case if the last Sunday of the year (or the Com- 
oe of Bar Safad in the preceding column) falls on the 24th 

fil. j 

The Latin numerals at the top of the table denote the week.dayae of 
the single festivals. 


p. 814. The following chapter, of which the text in many passages 
seems to be corrupt beyond hope, is to be compared with the re- 
searches of Prof. Chwolsohn (“Die Sabier und der Sabismus”). It 
would require a epecial commentary of ite own, and whosver wents 
to undertake it must be thoroughly imbued with the knowledge of the 
last phases of Neo-Platonism and of the popular belief and supersti- 
tion of the dying Greek heathendom. 

The author distinguishes between the heathens of Harrin and the 
Mandmans of the south of Babylonia. Hie festal calendar ia that of 
the people of Harrin. 

This calendar, on pp. 315-318, the author has transferred from a book 
of Athdahimé just as it was, with all the mis-spellings, faults, and lacunas, 
and eince the time of the autaor the text has become worse and worse. 
He expresses the hope (on p. 318) that he will be able one day to 
correct this chapter, bnt hie hope does not seem to have been fulfilled. 

It would have been more cautious not to translate this chapter at all, 
but I hope that the reader will accept my translation with indulgence as 
a first essay at unravelling the mysteries of this enigmatic but never- 
theless most valuable chapter. 


p. 814, 1. ?, Onthe Shamsiyya, vids Chwulschn, i. pp. 292-285. 


p. 315, 1.4. Chwolsohn, i. p. 140, gives for this event another date, 
viz. aH. 215. 


ANNOTATIONS, 443 


p. 814, 1. 26. Mubammad b. ‘Abd-al'‘aztz AlhAshimi is not known to 
me from other sources. Perhaps he waa a son of Abi-Muhammad ‘Abd. 
al'aziz b. Alwathik, mentioned in “ Kitéh-alfihrist,” p. 39. 


p. 815, 1. 36. Dhahbama, 9 place near Harrin, vide Chwolsohn, i, 
p- 806, note 6; ii. p. 680; and also Yakat ii. p. 725, e.v. Ses) In Syriac 
the place is called home, vide Assemani, “ Bibliotheca Orientalis,” i. 
p. 278. 


p.317,1.1. The text of this passage is vary uncertain. If ths moon 
stands on the 31st Adhar in Cancer, it must on ths 8th Adhar have 
stood in Gemini or in the first degree of Cancer. 


p. 317, ll. 21,22. On Dair-Kadhi and Dair-Sini, cf, Chwolschn, ii. 
pp. 24, 37,40, 41, 680, and 808. 


p. 317, 1.88, I do not know a word Kurmits, hut Turmie ye yyy? 
Sebo cane panis in ciners coctus, vide Chwolsohn, ii, p. 27 at 15, 
Tammiz. 


p. 318, 1.4. Dailafatan, av old name of Venus, known as Acdkdar 
from the Greek lexicographers, vide Hesychius, ed. M. Schmidt : Acdé¢ar 
4 ras 'A@polinys dovjp tro SadSciov. The name occurs also in Assyrian. 


p. $18, 1.82. From the rules relating to the computation of tha Lent 
of the Harrinians the author infers that their year was not 9 vague lunar 
year, cunning through all the seasons, but a kind of luni-solar year, liks 
that of the Jews, which, though based upon lunar years, ia made to agree 
with the course of the sun by means of the cycle of 19 years. Further, 
he infers that the Harrinian Fast-breaking depends upon the vernal 
equinox and their New Year upon the autumnal equinox. 

The double.badied signa gi ely) Eyl are Gemini, Viryo, Arcitenens, 
Pisces. 

The inclining signs Sia) gyot are Aries, Cancer, Libya, Caper. 

The stahie signs =vy31 gyal are Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Amphora. 

In the following we give a survey of what seem to have been the 
elements of the calendar of Harran: 

1. Ths day begins with sun-risa 

2. The month hegins on the second day after conjunction. 

8. The year begins with KAndn II. 

or with Tishrin I. (with new moon, the next to the autumnal 
equinox), 
or with the winter solstice. 

4. Lent hegins the 8th Adhér, when the sun stands in Pisces, and 

ends after 31 or 29 daye, when the sun stands in Aries, The laat quad- 


444, anafrént. 


rature of the moon before Passover (of the Jews) is the time of their 
fast-breaking. 

Hence the luni-eolar charactor of the calondar. 

5. As Terminus Paschalie Albérfint adopts the time between the 16th 
Adhér and 18th Niean, ¢.2. 28 days. 

6. The difference between the lunar and solar years (11d. 5h. 45', 
ete.) they insert in every fourth month as a Ieap-month, vis. Bilal 
Adhar I. (after ShubAt). 


p. 820, 1.14. I am not able to explain thie table in a satisfactory 
manner; however, I offor a few remarks to which an examination of the 
nature of this table has led me: 

1. Or az average the common year is counted at 354 days, the leap- 
year at $84 daye. The one ie 11 daya ehorter, the other 19 days longer, 
than the Julian year of $65 days. 

2. Once, however, in the 19 years of the cycle, the common year has 
heen counted at $58 days, co that between its beginning and that of the 
following year there is an interval of 12 days, 

This eubtraction of one day is perhape to be explained in thie way: 

12 commou years, each of 854 days=4,248 days, 
? leap-yoars, each of 884daya =2,688 days. 


19 years = ss - =6,986 daye. 
As, however, 19 colar years, each of 865 days, give only the sum of 
6,985 daye, this difference of one day wae to be removed by the sub- 
traction of one day in one of the 19 years of the cycle. 
8. The following are the years which aro counted at 353 daya: 
Year 5incol. 8. 
Year4incol. 4. 
Year 2 in col. 6. 
Year 2 in col. 8. 
Year 2 in col. 10. 


4. In the colmmns of the Sabian New-Year and Frat-breaking we find 
the Ordo intercalationia eyez te. the 2nd, 5th, 7th, 10th, 18tb, 16th, 
18th years are leap-yeare, whilst in the columns of the Corrected Passover, 
Mean Fasting of the Cbristians, and the Ist of ‘Tisbrin I. of the follow- 
ing year, wo find the Ordo intercalationie exe i.¢. the Srd, 5th, 8th, 
11th, 14th, 16th, 19th years are leap-years, 

I cannot eay on what principle this difference resta. 

5. The New-Year in col. 3 and Fast-breaking in col. 4 are Sabian. 

The Corrected Passover in col. 6 is Fowish. 

The Mean Fasting and the lst of Tishrin L of the following year in 
col. 10 ate Christian. 

§. The computation of the Corrected Passover rests upon an astro. 


ANNOTATIONS, 445 


nomical computation of the vernal equinos, special regard bang had 
to the precession of the equinozea which had heen neglected. 

The author does not communicate this astronomical computation of 
hie. 

7. The comparieon between col. 3 and col. 10 shows that the Sabinu 
New-Year falls always by one day (in come cases by two days) earlier 
than the Chriatian New-Year. 

8 The author gives directions (p. 320, 1. 7), to add 16 to the years 
of the ra Alexandr, or to subtract 8 therefrom. This indicates that 
at the epoch of the era which he uses, already thres years of an Ennea- 
decateris had elapsed. Which ora this is, I have not been able to 
find out. 


p- $22, 1, 28. Tbrithtm b. Sinan, known as an astronomer, of Harrk. 
nian origin, lived about the middle of the 10th century of our era. 


Cf. Kibrist, p. 272, and Wastenfeld, ‘ Geschichte der Arabischen Aerzta,” 
p. 37. 


p- 924, 1.4. Albaghfdi died ar. 204, vide HAj? Khalifa, v. p. 411. 


p. 824, L 22. Tha reading Alrdbiya is uncertain, as I do not know 
a place of thia name in Hadramaut. <A place of this name is mentioned 
by Tikit, iv. p, 391, 3. gesshs) but it cannot be identical with that 
mentioned by Albérant. 


Some of these fairs are also enumerated by Kazwint, “ Koamographio,” 
ii. p. 56. 


p- 825, 1.1. A festa! calendar of the Muslims is aleo found in Canon 
Masddicus (fol. 48) and in Kazwint, * Kosmographie,” i. p. 67 ff. (taken 
* from Albérini). 
p. 826, 1.27. The same verses occur in Ibn-al’athir, iv. p. 76, 


p. 828, L 21. Two of these versea occur aleo in Kazwini, “ Koamo- 
grephie,” i. p. 68. 


p. 328, 1.89. On this day the pilgrimage of the forty men, ete. This 
fact is not mentioned by Canon Masidicus nor hy Kazwini. I have not 
been able to find ont what is the historical basis of this statement. 


p. 329, Il. 3-26. This passage is missing in the manuscripts. I have 
supplied it from the Canon Masidicus. 


p. 330,14, Alsalimf. A poet of this name of the 4th contury of the 
Flight is mentioned in “ Kitib-alfibrist,” p. 168. Another author of the 
same name, author of the * Kitab-nutaf.alturaf” is mentioned by Yakit, 
iv. p. 208. 


p. 380, 1. $2. Hasan b. Zaid, the Alide prince of Tabaristin and 
Jurjan, died a.m. 270, vide Weil, “Geschichte der Chalifen,” ii, p, 450, 


446 ALstaon:. 


p- 330, 1.37. Khalaf b. Ahmad ruled over Sijistin at the end of the 
4tb century of the Hijra. It was Mahmid ben Sabuktegin who put en 
end to hie rule. Weil, “@esohiohte der Khalifen,” iii. p. 62. 


p. 881, 1 89. The Arabio text of this passage (text, p. 333, 1. 12, 
et pds te py) seems to be corrupt. 


p- 832,17. The verse of the oursing is Sara iii. 54, Mubammad’e 
negotiations with the Christians of Najrin are related in a special 
vhapter of Ibn-Hishém, ed. Wiistenfold, p. 401 ff.; vide A. Spronger, 
“Leben und Lehre des Mohammed,” iii. p. 489 ff. 


p. $82, 1. 21, The trea Yaktia is meutioned in the Coran, Sirs 
xarvii. 146. 


p. 888, L 17. Thabir is a hill near Mekka, cf. Y&kit, i. p. 917, where 
also this saying is mentioned (line 18). Mubit-almubit, i. p. 1077, 
18 ff 


p- 888, L 19. Ibn-ala‘rib{, a famous philologist of the school of 
Kftfa, died an. 231, vide G. Fligel, “ Grammatische Schulen der Araber,” 
p. 148. 


p: 384,1. 1. The battle of Albarra occurred a.p. 685, the 26th Aug, 
The troops of the Khalif Yazid b. Mu‘iwiya stormed Medina under the 
command of Muslim b. Ukba. Weil, “Geschichte der Chalifen,” i. 
p. 88}. 


p. 885,115. <AlZelthimi is not known to me from other sources. 

Ibrahim b. Alearré Aleajjaj, a famous philologist, died a.x. 310, vide 
“ Kitéb-elfhrist,” p. 61. Ibn-Khallikin, ed. Wustenfeld, No. 12, men- 
tions his “ Kitéb-a’anwa.” 

Abi. Yahyd b. Kundsa, vide note at p. 251, 1. 38. 

Aba-Hany¥a Aldinewari, a grammarian and mathematician, died a.x. 
150; cf. Ibn-Khallikin, ed. Wiistenfeld, No. 775, and “‘ Kitéb-albfihrist,” 
pp. 78, 88. 

Aba-Mufammad Alabalé, better known under the name of Ibn- 
Kutaiba, vide note at p. 226, 1 37, and “ Kitab-alfihrist,” », 38. 

Abé-alfuenin ig ‘Abd-alrabmin b. ‘Umar Alsdft, who died aa. 876. 
His book of fixed stars has been translated by Dr. Sjellerup, St. Peters- 
burg, 1874. Of. “Kitab-alfihrist,” p. 284, and notes. 


p. $36, 1.22. Jufdr, vide note at p.15, 1. 15. 


p. 386, 1. 20. Verses and rhymed poetry. The author meaus the 
Kutub.cPanwd (vide p. 337, 1. 29), froquently meutioned in the mare 


ANNOTATIONS. 447 


ancient Arabic literature. As far as I know, there is no standard work 
of this kind in the libraries of Europe, but it ie highly desirable to 
search for one and to publieh it, since most likely many of the verges, to 
the interpretation of which these books are dedicated, may claim a 


moh higher antiquity than the Kagidaa and Rajaz-poems of the earliest 
Arab poets. 


p- 887,140. Akmad ben Féris, a native of Rai, a famous philologiat 
and writer both in prose and verse, died at Rai, a.m. 890. €£ Ibn- 
Khallikin, ed. Wistenfeld, No. 48. 


p. 888,17. The author alludee im this passage to certain events in his 
own life, but unfortunately in such vague terms that we learn very little 
for his biography. Was he banished from the court of the prince? Of 
what kind were hie troubles, mental or material? At presend it is 
impoasible to give an anewer to theee queetions. 


p. 388, L 89. Ibn-alrakfd* is not mentioned by Ibn.Khallikan, nor 
hy the Fihrist, nor by Haji Khalifa. 


p. $89, 1. 85. Abd-Muhammad Ja‘far Alfaziri is unknown to me. 
Perhape he was a relative of the two brothers Muhammad and Ishak, 
the sons of Ibrahim Alfazari, vide “Kitib-alfibrist,” p. 164,and Reinaud, 
“ Mémoire sur ’Ende,” p. 310. 


p. 889, 1,87. Khalid ben Safwan, a famous orator at the time of the 
firat Abbaside Khalif Alsafiih, vide Ibn-Khallikin, od. Wistenfeld, 
No. 808 (end), p. 815, and Ibn-Kutaiba, “ Ma‘arif,” p. 206. 


p. 341 wed. The same division ie mentioned by Reinaud, “ Géo- 
grophie d’Aboulféda,” i. p. 281. Instead of psk ie, Apikitara, the 
north is here called by the name of Adharbaijin (Atropatene). 


p. 342, 1. 18. Foundations. I do not know the word wnt as 
denoting some particular part of the path of the moon, but I suppose 
that the author meane the four Cardines, vide note at p. 90, 1. 44 (on 
p. 895). 


p. $42, 1.81. Bani.Mdriye ben Kalb and Bant-Murra ben Hommdm. 
Assuming that the writing of the manuscripts ie correct, I must state 
that these two clane are not known to me from any other source. 


p. 343,11, With the followmg description of the Lunar Stations, 
cf, Tdeler, ‘‘ Untersuchungen iiber den Ureprung und die Bedeutung der 
Steranamen,” Berlin, 1810, and Schier, “Globus soeleatis cuficue,” 
Dresden, 1866. 


448 aLBiont. 


p. 845, 1. 88. Rémtn. I do not know an island of this name, 
Perhaps the author meant the island Hémani, described by Alkaswint, 
“ Kosmographie,” i, p. 107. An island Rémt, in the Indian ocean, is 
montioned by Yakdt, ii. p. 739, 


p. 346, 1.1. Raghad. Tho reading of this name is conjectural, as 
I cannot prove it from other sources. 


p- 351. The distance between two Stations is not, es the second 
numbor of the table, 18° 51’ 26”, would have us believe, but 12° 51’ 253", 
aa the reader will find if he examines the addition in the column of 
seconds. The author did not think it necessary to note the fractions in 
this colamn, but he did not disregard them in his calculation. 


p. 857,11. The following chapter on the projection of a globe ona 
plane (ech—0} plo) is purely mathematical. Dr. H. Bruns, Professor of 
Mathematics in the University of Berlin, has kindly undertaken the 
trouble of revising my translation of this chapter. 

For purposes of comparison as regards both the subject-matter and 
the termini technici I refer the reader to— 

D. Am. SédiMot, “Mémoire sur les instruments astronomiques des 
Arsabes,” Paria, 1844. 

B. Dorn, “Drei in der Kaijserlichen Gffentlichen Bibliothek zu St, 
Petersburg befindliche astronomische Instrumente” (“Mémoires de 
l’Académie,”’ tom. ix. No. 1) 1865. 

F. Woepcke, “Ueber ein in der Kgl. Bibliothek zu Berlin hefindliches 
Astrolsbium” (“ Abhandlungen der Kgl. Akndemie,” eto.), 1858, On 
pp. 7-10 and 18, vide an explication of the stereographic projection and 
the graphic method, of other methods, on p. 17. 


p. v7, 1. 84 Abd-H4mid "Ahmad ben Mohammad Alsighinl, a 
famous constructor of astronomical instruments in Bagdad, died a.n. 379. 
Vide L. A. Sédillot, “Prolégomines deg tables astronomiques d’Olongh- 
Beg,” Paris, 1847, Introduction, p. 56, note 1. 


p. 858, 1. 1, My book. The anthor means his typ} wlete} ws 
we Vybo dare ob Ewa! 
ie. the book in which all possible mnethode for the conatruction of the astro- . 
tabs are comprised, of which there ate several copies in European libra- 
riog, ¢g. Royal Library of Bar’ Sprenger 1869; Bodleian Libmry, 
Marsh, 701. 


INDEX. 


A. 


Aaron, 269, 85 ; 276, 26. 
Aaron’s Golden Calf, 270, 4. 
Mar Abba, catholicus, 311, 41; 


313. 
Bani-‘Abbis, 129, 7, 20, 24. 
Abf-al-‘abbas Al-Amull, 59, 26; 
239, 18, 
Mar ‘Abdé, 809, 7; 310. 
‘Abd-alkarim b. ’Abf-al ‘auja, 80, 


7. 
‘Abdallah b. ‘Ali, mathematician, 
245, 29. 
‘Abdallah b. Hilal, 49, 26. 
‘Abdallah b. Ismail Athishinf, 
187, 14. 
Aljabali, 226, 37; 3385, 17. 
‘Abdallah b. Almukaffa', 108, 3. 
Abi-‘Abdallah Algidik, 79,01. 
‘Abdallah b. Shu‘ba, 194, 12. 
‘Abd-slmasih b. Ishak Aliindf, 


187, 13. 
‘Abd-elrahman b. Muljim Almu- 
ridt, 330, 7. 
Ibn-‘Abdalrazzik Altisi, 45, 3. 
Abrahan with the Harrduians, 


187, 1. 
Abrashahr, 255, 10. 


‘Adan, 824, 20. 
ade L, Jewish leap-month, 68, 


Rabarbad, Mobed of Baghdad, 200, 


Adharbén, 121,14; 190, 41. 

Adhare’ashn, 207, 11; 211, 29, 

Abj-alhasan Adharkbir (or Ad- 
herkhira), son of Yazdankha- 
sis, geometrician, 54,4; 107, 
40; 204, 14. 

Adharkhira, fire-temple in Persis, 
2185, 15, 37. 

‘A dhri‘ft, 264, 1, 

‘Adites, 98, 1. 

‘Adud-aldaula, 217, 24. 

Bilia, 25, 15. 

Ay uator, 249, 15. 

ra, definition, 16, 4. 

4ira. erie 18, 5; 141,6; 142, 8; 
300, 6, 22. 

fra eo 32, 31; 136, 


45ra, Antonini, 33, 33; 137, 3u; 
176, 13. 

re Arabum ethnicorum, 39, 8. 

4a Astronomorum Babylonie, 
121, 12,16; 190, 42. 

ira, Agu "33, 11; 137, 17; 


: Fre Diluvii, 136, 20. 


34 


AN DNAS 


Zuy 


Bra Dioclatiani, 38, 38; 187, 37; 
176, 19. 

Zra Fuge, 83,45; 74,5; 188,9; 
176, 28 


ira Magorum, 188, 35; 184, 34. 

ra Mundi with tha Persiana, 12, 
10, 37. 

Zr Almu'tsdid Chalife, 86, 10; 
188, 49; 280, 5. 

“Gra Nabonassari, 31,13; 136,26. 

Zra Philippi, 82,22; 136, 26. 

Zira Yazdagirdi, 35, 48; 138, 80; 
184, 25. 

Afrisidb, 205,17. 

Asclingto, 215, 6. 

Afrigh, 

guint, "feasts of tha Zorosa- 
trians, 221, 17, 

Ahasverus, 273, 32. 

Ahaz, 276, $7. 

Abt-Satd ’Ahmad b. ‘Abd-aljalil 
Alsijzi, geomnetrician, 52, 23. 

"Ahmad b. Faria, 887, 40. 

Abf-alhuasin “Ahmad b. Albusain 
ree oo 284, 16, 
80; 288,8 

Abt-Said Roma b. Muhammad 

b. ‘Irik Khwérizm-Shih, 229, 


2, 

cea : Mubammad b. Shihab, 

ads 

"Ahmad b. Miaa b. Shakir, 61, 48. 

*Ahmad b. Sehl b. Hashim b. Al- 

: walid, 88,18. 

"Ahmad b. Altayyib Alsarakhsi, 
129, 17. 

Ahriman, 107, 18. 

‘Aktb&, 269,6; 276, 14. 

‘Abfl b. “Abf-Taélib, 326, 26. 

Alexander, 32, 31; 35,16; 48,38; 
127, 5, 

*Alfaniyya, Jewish sect, 279, 14. 

‘Ali b. Abi-Talib, 69, 2; 230, 7, 
21,26; 294, 22. 

‘All b. ‘AIL Alkatib, 261, 42. 

‘All b. Al’jahm, 238, 24. 

‘Alf b. Mubammad b. Almad, ete. 
Inam, 330, 29. 

‘Alf b. Muhammad b. ‘Abd-alrab- 
man b, ‘Abd-alkais, 380, $1. 

‘Abd-‘Alf Ibn Niz&r b. Ma‘add, 48, 


82. 
‘Alt-alrida b. Mfsa, 380, 22. 


‘Ali b. Yabyi, tha aatronomer, 38, 
5,15; 285, 26. 

Almagest, 18, 18; 31,29; 354, 17, 
34; 858, 88. 

‘Aur. b. Babf'a, 89, 15. 

‘Amr b. Yahya, 39, 16. 

Amu], 206,39. 

‘Anfn, 63, 41. 

‘andnitea, 68,40; 278,34. 

Andargih, 58, 25; 210, 29. 

Andish, 206, 36. 

Aniannus, 25, 25. 

best daughter of Nu'man, 311, 


‘see 196, 4. 

Antonius ‘Martyr, aliaa Abi-Raih, 
287, 38. 

Apogea, 164, 1; 167, 1. 

‘Arabha, 270,37. 

Ibn-al-’a'‘rabi, 333,19. 

‘Arafat, 882, 40. 

Arameans, 93, 24, 43. 

Arbaces, 100, 3. 

Ardashir b. Babak, 122,81. 

Ardawén, 121, 14. 

Ariana, 282, 14. 

Arish, 205, 25. 

Aristoteles, 168, 25; 209, 2; 225, 


12. 
rear 288, he 291,17. 
ja QZ, 29 , 8. 
re ey 29, 28. 
Armenia, 211, 19 ; 298,17. 
ere martyrs, 309, 1. 
khshad, 100,30. 
Pe omer b. Bazkér, 41,28. 
*Aatad b. ’Amr b. Rabi‘a, 49, 40. 
Al’asadi, 344, 8. 
Al-’agfar b. Elifaz b. Esau, 49, 9. 
*Aafir b. Shirawaihi, 47, 25. 
Ashkiniana, 116,28; 119. 
‘Ashiri, 270,7; 326, 8; 827,2. 
Askajamak b. Ackskhwir, 4a, 40. 
Aesaying-circle, 142; 155, 5. 
Assuan, 252, 29. 
Assyrian kinga, 99. 
AthfiyAn, 212, 37. 
Augustua, 58, 34. 
Aveata, 108, 40; 118, 3; 117, 22; 
127,11; 204, 40; 205, 24. 
Al-awwi, 246,23; 837, 22. 
‘Azéreth, 275,19 ; 277,24. 
Azmia'fl, 213, 30, 


INDEX. 


B. 


Baalbek, 187, 35. 

Babyloman kings, 100. 

Biidhaghés, 194, 13. 

Badr, date of the battle of Badr, 
$30, 9. 

Albaghdadiyya, religious sect in 
Khwarizm, 178, 5, 

Bahifirid b. Mah-Furhdhin, 193, 


16. 

Bahr-almaghrib, 260, 24. 

Eeheins Spesetor of the Bayides, 

» 7, 41. 

Bahram, of Herat, 108, 9. 

Bahram b. Hurmuz, 191, 10. 

Bahrim Jishanas, Marzubifn of 
Adharba. jan, 48, 12. 

Bahram b. Mardinshih, Mobed of 
Sh&pir, 108, 6. 

Eee . Mihrén Alisfahani, 108, 


Bahrém Shabfu, 48, 11. 

Baikand, 221, 22. 

Abi-Bakr Alsili, 86, 14. 

Balimis, 27, 17. 

Albalda, 348, 30. 

Balka, 39, 17. 

Balkh, 100, 12; 186, 19; 220, 20. 

Balti, 316, 25. 

Bamiyan, 255, 41. 

Banat-Na‘sb, 231, 18. 

Bani-al’agfar, 104, 3. 

Banii-Hanifa, 193, 19. 

Bani-Mariya b. Kalb, 342, 32. 

Bant-Murra b. Hammam b. Shai- 
ban, 342, 33. 

Ban-Misa b. Shakir, 147, 26. 

Bant-yarbil', 39, 23. 

Baptizing of the Christians, 288, 
25 


Bardesanes, 27,9; 189, 80, 43. 
Barih, 339, 5. 

Barakh h. Nériyya, 271, 25. 
Batn-alhtt, 256, 6. 

Batniin, 916, 4, 

Tbn-Albizyar, 25, 27. 

Bel of Harrin, 316, 8. 

Benjamin, 272, 83. 

Bereshja, apostle of Marw, 296, 1. 


451 
Bévarnep, 202, 82; 209, 37; 218, 


Bih.réz, 53, 41. 

Bilkis, 49,25. 

Abbirini, 12, 4,11; 29, 35; 80, 
29; 92, 6, 9; 184, 29; 167, 
11; 194,42; 196,34; 214,30; 
217, 5; 234, 88, 41; 287, 2; 
247, 35; 248, 40; 256, 13; 
269, 19; 290, 88; 294, 26; 
338, 7; 857, 41. 

Buddha, 190, 5. 

Bidhasaf, 186, 15. 

Boseakneny Shih&b-aldaula, 131, 


Al-buhturi, 37, 16. 
Bukhtanassay, 297, 80. 
Bulghiaren, 51, 1, 

Al-burku‘4, 380, 29. 

Bishanj, 202, 4. 

Bugra, 251,37; 259,31; 263,21. 


* Al-bntain, 343, 29, 


Bawajhi, house of, 45; 94,19. 


C. 


— 33, 12. Pre 

sesar, parapegmiatist, te 

Calender, 288, 4. 

Calendar, reform of the Calendar 
during the Chalifate, 86,10. 

Calendar, reform of the Calendar 
in Chorasmia, 229, 1. 

Callippus, parapegmatist, 31, 26; 
238, 15 


C'ashn.i-nilifar, 205,12. 
Catholicus of the Melkites, 283, 


43. 
oe of the Nestorians, 284, 
Chaldean, their seasona, 322, 18; 
323. 
Chaldwans=Kayinians, 100, 6, 12. 


j Chaldean kings, 101. 


Chalifate, 129, 13. 

Chesshoard, 132, 14. 

ae of Adam, feast, 311, 
China, 266, 10. 


42; 


452 


Chinese, 249, 3; 268, 12. 

Chinese sea, 286, 27. 

Chorasmians, 40, 89; 57,13; 244, 
4; 292, 12. 

Choraimian names of the plansts, 

2. 

Chorasmian names of tho figures 
of the zodiac, 173. 

Chorasmian characters, 42, 7. 

a names of the months, 


57. 
Christ, 21, 28 ; 25, 42; 38, 28 ; 287, 
28 ; 290, 20. 
Christians, their months, 70, 11. 
Christians’ in Chorasmia, 283, 4; | 41 
292, 12. 
Christians in Khurasan, 295, 22. 
Christian feasts, 306, 29. 
Christian Arabs, 811, 11. 
Ohronicon of the Christians, 158, | 
82; 808, 
Chronology of the Persians before 
Islam, 88, 22. 
Cleopatra, 103, 88, 
Goals, 242, 29, 38,44; 248, 3. 
neice to the Almagest, 189, 


Concdita cecumenica, 291, 9, 

Confusion of lan By 100, 16. 

Seni aneton middle one, greatest, 
91, 33, 41 

Conon, parapegmatist, 284, 24; 
236, 13. 

Constantinus, 88, 41; 291, 17, 41; 
292, 19; 295, 25. 

Corbicius b. ‘Patecius, 191, 2. 
Creation of man according to the 
Persians, 17, 20, 48; 107,1. 
Creation of the world and begin- 

ning of the year with the Per- 
cians, 55, 5. 
oe of the world, its horoscope, 


Crocudiie 250, 20. 

Cross, invention of ths, 292, 18. 
Cross, symbol of the, 293, 8, 10. 
Orde Ss e. yeara, 68, 31; 64, “0; 


Orsie of Pi 9 fiere 31,85; 68, 88; 
Oyels oe 7 years, 31,28; 68, 35. 


Cycle of 95 years, 63,37. 
Cycie of 63 years, 68, 89. 


Cae | Infans, 208, 40; $10, 
Cyrus, 24,18 ; 291, 42, 


D. 


Dada, 824, 16. 

Al-dabarin, 336,38 ; 344,15. 
D&dhish4‘, 295, 15. 

Dahak, 100, 3. 


Dance ib, 251, 82. 

: Dair-Ka hi, 317,16, 21. 
Dair-Sint, 317, 22. 

Al-dajjiil, 195, 44; 196,9. 

Dama, mountain in Porsis, 199, 
23. 


Damaacus, 237, 28, 
Dimdadh, 108, 26. 
Daniel 16, 34, , 873 19,18; 20, 20; 


David, 338, 43. 
Day, definition of, 4, 10. 
Day. <besinning of the day, 7, 81, 


Day. — Bening of the day with 
the Arubs, 5, 14. 

Day —Beginning of the day with 
ths astronomers, 6, 28. 


Day.— Beginning of the day with 
ny Greeks and Persians, 6, 


Day a iteginning of the day with 
the Sabians, 315, 16. 

Days.—Battle days of the heathen 
Arabe, 39,8 

Days.—Battle days of the ‘Aus 
and Khezraj, 39, 48. 

Days Coun aye of Bakr and 


Donat days of the Kuraish, 


ie de —Canioular days of the 
herds, 262, 17. 
Days of ad luck, 245, 87. 
Days of the month with the Uho- 
rasmians, 57, 17. 


INDEX. 458 


pei of the month with the LEliozer b. Pariah, 68,32 


ros Laon $2. Emim b. Lid, 28, 34. 
Days of the month with tha Per- Emperors of Byzantium, 106. 
siana, 53, 5. Enos, 814, 27. 


Daya of the month with tha Sog- Epagomenm with the Arabs, 246, 
dians, 56, 34. \ 13. 
Days —Lucky, unlucky, and indif- ' Epagomen with the Persians, 53, 
ferent days, 218. 24. 
Days of tha Old Lady, 244, 18,37; Epagomene with the Sogdians, 
245, 33. 57,2; 220,8; 22], 5. 
Saints’ days of ths Melkitea, 283, Ephesus, 285, 18. 
4. ‘Al-ériinshabri, 208, 25; 211,19. 
Delephat= Venus with theSfbians, , Esther, 274,26. 
Euctemon, parapegmatist, 238, 14. 
Deluge, 27, 24; 28, 7, 11, 38. Endoxos, parapegmatist, 233, 17. 
Democritus, parapegmstist, 238, | Euphrates, 25], 44; 252, 22. 
20. Eusebius of Casarea, 802, 31. 
Deuteronomium, 22,40; 23, 5. Eutyches, 291, 35. 


Al.dbiré, 245, 4. ! Abi-al‘abbis Alfedi b. Hatim Al. 
Dha, 50, 8. nairizi, 139, 7. 
Dhi-albijja, 321, 18. 
Dbi-alka‘da, 321,23. 
Dhi-kar, 311, 19. 
Dhi-alkarnain, 43, 5. F,. 
Dhi-almajiz, 324, 28. 
Denial beraten 6171 
mini horarum, 9. 
Dona astrorum, 90, 42; 92,4. Fahls, 216,15. — 
Dositheus, parnpegmatist, 933,27.  Paire of the ancient Arabs, 324, 1. 
Dimat-aljandal, 324, 6. Fanfkhusra, 45, 25. 
Dunbavand, 218, 32; 214,53. Faniikbusrau, 45, 9. 
Tbn-Duraid, 49, 33. Al-fantk, 344,17. 
Duration of the world, 18, 11. Abi-alfaraj Alzanjani, 54, ] ; 118, 


81; 120, 38; 126, 1, 7; 200, 
5, 14; 216, 39; 316, 6, 19. 
E, pair a ” al’awwal, althant, 349, 


Parghin 94,35; 235, 16. 

hwirwic' irehAbiyya, 47, 29. 

Pornuth, 53, 21. 

Farwardagin, 210, 36. 

bale Ty Apostles, 304, 38 ; 309, 

0. 

Fasts of the Christiana, 299, 2, 3; 

320, 14, cols. 8, 9. 


Easter calculation, 318,40; 319, 8. 
Ene time, corrected, 320, cols. 6, 


Ecclesiastical degrees, 283, 33; 

284, 18. 

Egyptians, ancient, modern, 12, 
28, 33; 18,17; 58,33. 


Egyptiau Linge, 302. Pasta of Elias, 309, 12; 310, col. 
Egyptians as parapegmatists, 233, 12. 
16. Pasta of the ‘Thadites, 313, col, 12, 
Egyptions, thair seasons, 322, 35;  Fasts of the Jews, 270, 7; 271, 16. 
323, | Paste on Mondu: Y8; 307, 31. 
Eli, the high-priest, 275, 13. * Fasts of the Muslins, 7, 41; 77,1; 
Elias, catho)icua of Khurdsin, 292, | 327, 18. 


4. Fast of Niniveh, 309, 14; 310, 


454, 


Fasts of tha SAbians, $16, 12, 27, 
$2, 40; $17, 1, 17; 318, 18, 
16, 28 ; $20, 2, 14, cols, 4, &, 

Fasts of tho Spis, 277, 1. 

Fitima, 382, 6, 28. 

Feasts of the Church of St. Mary 
in Jerusalem, 308, 6. 

Feast of thaCrown of tha Year, 297, 
42 


Feast, ‘a Discovery of the Croas,” 


Feast of the Equinos with the 
Hindus, 249, 89 ; 266, 25. 

Feast of the Gra 296, 31. 

Feast, “ Harvest-home,” 295, 30. 

Feast of Lent-hreaking, 381, 35. 

Feast of Mir-Ma&ri, 308, 12. 

Feast of tho MogillaA, 274, $2. 

Feast of Mount Tabor, 297, 2. 

Feasta of the Muslima, 325, 2. 

Feasts of tho Persians, 199, 2. 

Feast of the Roses, 292, 11; 295, 
20. 

Feasta of the Sibians, 318, 20. 

Feast of Tabornacles, 270, 28. 

Feast of the Temple, $12, 1; 318. 

Feast of the Renovation of the 
Temple, 298, 8. 

Feast of Wax, 289, 29. 

ee at Waz of the Jacobites, 

Feast of the Virgins, 11,9; 313. 

Féréz, grandfather of Néshirwan, 
215, 8. 

Féréz, 199, 20. 

Figures in the zodiac, 173. 

Al-ftr, 41, 10, 

Fire, its natare, 246, 41. 

Formation of blossoms, 294, 10. 

Formation of double organs or 
members in animals and plants, 


94, 6. 
Frédan, 114,83; 115, 4; 207, 43; ! 
* Habib b. Biluriz, Metropvliten of 


209,12; 210,7; 212,36, 42. 
Friday, the golden one, 310, col. 9. 
Friday ie — Muslims, 304,15. 
Fustat, 285,45. 


INDEX. 


a. 


Gabriol, $31, 36. 

Gihenbare, 204, 42; 205, 9; 207, 
28; 210, 88; 212, 17; 217,21. 

Coe with the Chorasminns, 

Gajus Julius, 1u3, $2, 40. 

Galaaus: 225,83; 281, 27; 282, 25, 
27; 298, 38. 

Gedalja b. ’AhikAm, 269, 1. 

Geometrical progression, 184, 4. 

Al-ghafr, 347, 14. 

Ghumdan, 41, 16. 

Ibp-Abi-Alghnrikir, 198, 1. 

Ghuzz-Turks, 109, 28 ; 224,15. 

Gilsh&h, 27,38; 107,3. 

Girshdh, 107,2; 108, 15. 

Gomer b. Yapheth, 28, 24. 

Gospel, 25,39; 381, 14, 30. 

Gospels of Bardesanes, Marcion 
and Mani, 27,9; 189, 48; 
190, 7. 

Srrel. commentary to th, 295, 


Gregorius, apostils of the Arme- 
nians, 298, 17. 

Greck fathers (Diodorus, Theodo- 
rus, Neatorius), 311,39; 313. 

Greek names of the planets, 172. 

Greek names of the figures in the 
zodiac, 178, col. 2. 

Gundisfpir, 19], 16. 

Gushtfsp, 206, 24. 


H. 


Habash, 177,83; 178, 8; ‘80,4. 


Mogul, 33, 8. 
Hajr in Yamama, 324, 32. 
Athak‘s, 344, 28. 
Alhflam, Chalif of Egypt, (Abd- 
‘Ali ben Nizar), 46. Ao 
Himan, 278, 25. 
Hamén-Sir, 274, $2. 
Hemdadhan, 192, 6. 
Hamin, 208, 33. 


INDEX, 


Hamyga b. Alhssan Alisfahani, 36, 
15; 61,38; 62,12; 106; 112,41; 
114, 1; 117, 22, 30; 118, 2; 
122,14; 124,1; 125,1; 127, 
6; 128, 2. 

Hamaa, 294, 21. 

Alhan‘a, 344, 32. 

R. Hananja b. Toradjén, 276, 12. 

Abi-Hanifa Apdinarerl: 335, 16; 
351, col. 1 

Hanna the Wisin, 258, 36. 

Hanukki, 271, 29. 

Al-harra, 384, 1. 

Harriia, 186, 23. 

Harriiuians, 18, 28; 32, 16; 186, 
24; 188, 26; 314,29; 315,8; 
829, 27. 

Hirtn Alrashid, 287, 39. 

Al-hasan and Al-busaia, 332, 5. 

Abi-Mukammad Athasan b. ‘Alt b. 
Nini, 45,22. 

Hishim ». Hakim Almukenna‘, 
194, 22. 

Alhishim/, 318, 24. 

Albashwi ivges 90,35; 199, 7. 

Alhayawiniyya, 258, 29. 

Hebraica, 18,25, 34, 38; 19,6. 

Hobrew names of the figures of the 
zodiac, 178, col. 5. 

eer names of the planeta, 

Helena, mother of Constantine, 
292,21; 807, 41. 

Herat, 285, 37. 

Hermes, 187, 44; 188, 24; 290,18; 
315, 1; 316,41; 342, 40. 

Hijra, 327,13. 

Hilal, 315, 12. 

Hillél, 273, 20. 

Him arites, 40, 31; 94,34. 

Hindus, 15, 5; 83, ” col. 2; 96, 19; 
249, 39; 266, 26; 335, 20; 
342, 29. 


Hipparehus, 233, 22; 322, 35; 
323. 

Hippocrates, 258, 33 ; 261, 25 ; 262, 
8; 337, 37. 

Al-Hira, 40, 37. 


Hishim b. ‘Abd-slmalik, 36, 43. 

Hisham b. Alkésim, 1€8, 5. 

Hizir, estate in the “district of 
Istakhr, 56, 8. 

Homer, 99, 50. 


455 


Desens: 108, 41; 206, 16; 212, 


Hours, 9,18. 

Hubal, Isif, Na’ila, 39, 17. 

Hudhaifs b. ‘Abd b. Fukeim, 14, 6. 

Hulwan, 28, 1. 

Hurmuz b. Shapnr Abhatal, 208, 
82; 209, 37. 

Hurawuziin, 34, 18, 17. 

Albusain bh. ‘Ali, 326, 6, 26, 22; 
328, 18, 87; 530, 3. 

Abt-Alhusain Algifi, 835,18. 

Aba Bakr Husain Altamuniir, 243, 


AbOeAn Atbusain b. ‘Abdallih b. 
Sina, 247, 86. 

Abi-Abdallih Allnaain b. Ibrii- 
him Altabart Aluatili, 96, 43 ; 


97,15. 

Alhusain b. Mansir Alhallaj, 195, 
1,18. 

Alhusain b. Zaid, prince of Taba- 
ristiin, 330, 82. 


Is 


Ibadites, 811. 11, 13. 
‘Ibbar, 63, 11. 
Ibriihim b. Al‘abbiis Alsili, 37, 9. 

) ’Abd-alfaraj Tbrihim b. Abmad b. 
Khalaf Alzanjini (vide Abd- 
alfaraj), 54,1; 118, 31; 120, 
38. 


Tbrthim b. ’Ashtar, 326, 84. 
Baas aa Tbrahim h. Hila Algabi, 


45, 

Tbrihitn b. Alsarti Alzajjij (vide 
Alzajjinj), 335, 15. 

Ibribim b. Siuiin, 322, 28. 

Aliklil, 347, 38. 

Tliou, 99, 37. 

‘Imdd-aldauls ‘Ali b. Buwaihi, 129, 
22. 

Indian nemes of the figures of the 
zodiac, 173, col. 6. 

Tndiav names of the planets, 172. 

Intercalary cycles of the sucient 
Arabs, 73, 9. 

Saas rye tion of Almwtadid, 81, 

4, 


406 


Antsiealeon of the ‘Aninites, 69, i 


I 
petiicn of the heathen Arabe, 
18, 34; 14,27; 78,9. 
Intercalation (of "days, months, 
ears, eto.) of the Egyptians, ! 
8, 33; 59,1. 
Intercalation of the Greeks, 60, 4. 
Intercalation of the Hindus, 15, 6. 
Intercalation of the Jewe, 68, 15. 
Intercalation of the Persians, 12, 
40; 88, 82; 54, 10; 55, 29; 
184, 42; 220, 22. 
Intercalation of the Péshdadiana, 
18,1 
ieasleusa of the Sfibiane, 315, 


24. 
tree nes of the Syrians, 70, 


Trtces ciation of the Zoroastriana, 
55, 29. 

Intern between Alezender and 
the accession to the throne of 
the last Yagdagind, 17,30. 

Ton, eon of Paris, 338, 10. 

Abi-'Tai APiafahini, 18, 20. 

Aba.Sehl ‘Isi b. Yahya Almasihi, 


74, 25. 
Abi aie Alvan, 270, 33; 278, 
, 18. 
Tsaf, 39, 18 

Teaia, 22, 18, 28, 39. 

Isfahan, 215, 3, 4. 

*"Ashma‘iyya. 68, 36. 
Abd-‘Tama, 9%, 22, 24. 
Ismail, 268, 28. 

Temi‘ b. ‘Abbad, 72, 36. 
Tomfil the Samanide, 48, 5. 
Tapahhadhin, 235, 19. 
Ispandérmadh, 205, 22. 
‘Izz-aldanla Bakhtivar, 93, 15. 
Abi-aljabbar, 80, 18, 
Aljabha, 339, 8; ‘945, 23. 


J. 


Jacohites, 282, 10, 24; 289, 30. 

Ja‘far b, Muhammad Alg&dik, 76, 
36; 182,28; 188, 35. 

Abi-Mahmid Ja‘far b. Sa‘d Alfa- 
z&ri, 339, 35. 


INDEX. 


ae Aljihiz, 214, 28. 


Jai, 28, 
rary or 214, 33; 256, 5, 18; 
268, 12; 279, 2. 
Jam, 208, 13, 83; 208, 20; 220,11. 
Jamisp, 196, 40. 
Jamshédh, 200, 25. 
Jeremia, 371, 23 
Jerobeam, 87, 8. 
Jerusalem, 294, 16. 
Jews, 18,22; 14,28; 62,16; 196, 


2. 
Jibré'il b. Nah, 191, 19. 
John of Kashkar, 808, 8. 
Jobn of Dailam, 318, col. 16. 
John, the teacher, 307, 15, 
John of Marvw, 296, 27. 
John Baptiet, 297, 25. 
Jona, 102, 2; 309,16 ; 382, 17, 21. 
Josua b. Nin, 272, 81; 277, 3, 
Joseph of rea 287,17. 
Judarz b. Sbapir b. Afkdrshdh, 
297, 38. 
Judges, their chronology, 38. 
Al-jadi, 28, 41. 
Sumida, $21, 19. 
Julius Coosar, 60, 8. 
da aa Junida b. ‘Auf, 18, 


K. 


Ka‘h AY abhar, 288, 18. 

Ka‘b b. Lua’ yy 39, 22. 

Kas‘: 7 a3; 

Kahi, rvs, i 

Kadhbhuda (cecodespotes), 95, 1. 

Poni srecaeraig eh 210, 14. 

Kaikhnerau, 206, 27. 

Kain and Abel, 910, 41 

Kairawan, 256, 28, 31. 

Kalanmas, 18, 40; 14,16; 738, 20. 

Kalb-aljabbar (Sirius), 201, 28. 

Kalwidha, 200, 6, 9. 

Kamferéz, 215, 39; 216,1, 

Keren (Albert hee 
arpeene urri’), 68, 36 

Alkeraj, 218, 2 

Karbela, 326, a. 


INDEX. 457 


Kardfanikhusra, 217, 28. 

Karmates, 196. 13 ; 197, 28. 

Alkarva Albaditha, 256, 5. 

Kasanians, 100, 11, 12; 110, 34; 
311; 113, 20; 114, 21 

Kaydmarth, 107, 2,5, 7. 

Khalaf b. ’Ahmad (see 
aldaula), 830, 38. 

Khalid b. Abd-almasth of Marw- 
ridh, 147, 24. 

Khalid Alkasri, 86, 48. 

Khalid h. Alwalid, 192, 44. 

Khalid b. Safwau, 339, 37. 

ene b. Yazid bh. Mu‘awiya, 300, 


Wali- 


Abt Ja‘far Alkhizin, 183, 12 ; 249, 
84; 322, 27. 

Ehindif, 328, 21. 

Ibn Khurdadbih, 50, 26. 

Kburram-Réz, 211, 39. 

Khurshédh, Mobed, 207, 21. 

Khnusrau Parwiz, 258, 36. 

Khutan, 263, 14. 

Khwaf, 198, 18. 

Khwarizm-Shihs, 48, 15. 

Kibla, 328, 14. 

Kilwidh, 278, 16. 

Kimik, 255, 34. 

Kinana, 13,39; 14,18, 20. 

Alkindi (see Yatkab b. Ishik), 
187, 18; 219, 18, 29; 245, 18; 
294, 27. 

Kings of the Jews, 89. 

ores 270, 7; 277, 11; 327, 10. 

Alkisrawi, 127, 2; 208, 32. 

Klepsydra (water-thief), 254, 9. 

Koran, 331, 16. 

Kosmas, author of Christiancanons, 
289, 22. 

Kuba, 82, col. 10. 

Kubidh bh. Feéroz, 192, 8. 

Kifa, 28, 39. 

Al-Kulthiimi, 335, 15. 

Kumn, 215, 1. 

Ibu-Kuniisa (sce Yahya), 339, 34. 

Késhin, King of Mesopotami, 90, 
18 


Kutaila b. BMusliu Albvabili, 41, 
38; 49,6; 58,8. 


t,. 


Labi b. Diilam b. Basil, 46, 12. 
Lake of Alesandria, 248, 23: 
Lakhmides, 40, 37. 
AViinmasisivva, 25, 2. 

Lamp, self-acting, 255, 22. 
Lecap-mouth, February, 241, 19,20. 
Life.—Duration of life, $0, 84. 


M. 


Maghribis (Spaniarda), 59, 27. 

Maghribis, Jewish sect, 278, 28. 

M&h, Media, 116, 34. 

Almahdi, 194, 38, 39. 

Miahb-réz, 84, 15, 18. 

Al-mahwa, 340, 1. 

Mahzar, 64, 83; 66,22; 146. 

Maimadn b. Mihran, 34, 7. 

Mikhiryj I., 221, 21. 

Mikhira} IL., 221, 24. 

Ma'man, 235, 2; 330,5,3°8 «4 

Al-ma’min 6, Abmad Alsalami 
Alharawi, 287,19; 297, 25. 

Ma'min b. Rashid, 328, 41. 

Mao‘n b. Zi’ida, 80, 7, 

Manhij, 265, 27. 

Mant, 27, 11; 123, 6; 189, 48; 
225, 19, 

Manicheans, 80, 8; 329, 28, 31. 

Manicheans of Samarkaud, 191, 


27. 
Maui.—Gate of Maat, 191, 17. 
XTankir, a mountain, 255, 34. 
Avi-Mausgir b. tAbd-alrazzik, 119, 
19; 327,16. 
AbLa-Nasr Mangir b. ‘Ali b. ‘Irak, 
167, 7. 


Abi-Ja‘far Mangir, 80, 5; 262, 
30 


Marcian, 291, 34. 

Marcion, 27,0; 189, 30. 

Mard, Mardina, 107,39. 
Mardawij, 47, 24. 

Mare clansum, 236, 17. 

Mar Mini, 309, 7, 10; 310, col. 11. 
Martyrs of the Melkites, 283. 4. 


35 


458 


Marvw, 288, 42; 296, 1. 

Marw-aleb’hi, An, 36, 9. 

Marzubin b.’ Rustam, Ispahhadh, 
191, 44, 

Abt-Ma‘shar, 29, 4; $1,4; 91,81; 
94, 39, 44; 95,5; 187, $4; 
842, 15, 27. 

Masmaghin, 214, 6. 

Al.masrika, 58, 25. 

Mazdak, 192, 6; 194, $2. 

Medinet.almangir, 262, $2. 

Melkites, 282, 5, 21, 22. 

MeJkites of Chorasmia, 289, 4. 

Ménoshe'ibr, 205, 19, 40. 

oar and Méshina, 107, 86; 116, 


Messick, 18, 16,48; 19, 4, 11,17. 
Meton, 284, 82; 299, 28. 


Metrodoras, parapegmatist, 238, 
7. 


Midian, 98, 10. 
Mi 


Milfid, Méléd, 144,10. 

Milfdites, Jewish sect, 68, 35. 

MiJhAn, 245, 1. 

Min, 324, 31. 

Miragin, 208, 35. 

Mirin, suminer-eolatice with the 
Persians, 258, 24. 

Méléd, its caleulation, 147. 

Méléa-limits, 150, 22. 

Months of the Arabs, 71, 18; 75, 
85; 82, cols. 3, 4. 

Months of the Chorasmians, 57,18; 
82, col. 1. 

Months of the Egyptians, 58, 38 ; 
59.1; 88, col. 3. 

Months of the Greeks, 83, col. 5; 
241, $1, 

Months of the Hindua, 88, col. 2. 

Months of the Jews, 62,16; 82, 
col. 5; 148, 19. 

Months of Ahnu‘tadid, 81, 14. 

Months of the Persians, 52, 12; 
82, col. 4. 

Months of the Homans, 59, 26; 
Sy, col. 3. 

Months of the Saci, 52, 25; 82, 

Monte of tho 8 gtiane, 56, 22 

‘anths of the Sogdians, 56, 22; 

82, col. 2. 


jin, 201, 3; 207,85; 208, 29, 
8, 86, 39, 40, 45; 209, 11, 26, 
41 


Months of the Syrians, 69, 40; 
70, 12; 88,7. 

Months of the Thamid, 74, 27 ; 83, 
col. 6, 

Months of the Turks, 88, cols. 1, 8. 

Months of the people in ths west 
(Spaniards ?) 59, 26; 88,3. 

Months of the inhabitants of Kuba, 
82, col. 10. 

Hoo of the inhabitants of Bu- 

khirik (?) 82, col. 9. 

Month.—The small month of ths 
Egyptians, 59, 28, 

Months: beginnings in the oycle 
of 28 yeara, 175, 10. 

Months of ths Pilgrimage, 835, 9. 

Moon, 169, 18; , 4 

Stations of the on of ths Arabs, 
226, 28; 335, 28. 

Siations of the moon, calculations 
of their risings and settings, 
$42,1; 354, 6. 

Stations of ths moon of the Choras. 
miaus, 226, 4. 

Stations of the moon, distances 
between them, 358, 1. 

Stations of the moon of the Sog- 
dians and Chorasmiana, 257,92. 

Stations of the moon: tables, 
851; 352; 355; 356. 

Moonstone, 168, 24, 

Mordekhai, 274, 14, 

Mosque of Salomo, 127, 31. 

Mosque of Damase, 187, 27. 

Al-Mubfhala, 332, 4. 

Muhammad, 22, 17; 46, 31; 298, 
15; 294, 18, 21. 

Mokemmad b. ‘Abd-al‘aziz Alba. 
shimi, $15, 26. 

Muhammad b. ‘Abd-almalik Alzay- 
yat, 265, 12. 

Abi-Ali Mubammad b. ’Ahinad 
Albalkhi, 102, 43. 

Abi-Abdallah Muhammad b. ’Ah. 
mad, Khwirizm-Shah, 42, 17. 

Muhammad b. ‘All b. Shalmaghin, 
198, 1. 

Abi-alwafi Muhammad Albuza- 
jani, 29, $2, 

Aba-Bakr Muhammad b. Duraid 
or Ibn Duraid, 74, 15. 

Abi-Ja'far Muhammad b. Habib 
Alhaghdadi, $24, 4. 


Muhammad b. Alhanafiyya, 195, 
3 


8 
Muhanmza b. Ishak b, Ustidh 
Buudalh Alsuakhei, 29, 33. 
Abd. Muhammad Aljaball, $35, 12. 
Muhammad b. Ja&bir Albattini, 
177, 2; 358, $3. 
Muhammad b. Aljahm Albarmakt, 
3, 4. 
Mubaumad b. Jarir Altabart, 50, 


Mobsmoad b. Mityar, 250, 15; 
258, 2 

iin b. Misa b. Shikir, 61, 
38,43; 285, 23. 

Aba-Ja‘far Muhammad »b. Sulai- 
man, 80, 5, 

Aba-Bakr Muhammad b. Zakariyya 
Alrazi, 248, 31. 

Muharram, calculation of the lst 
of Muharram, 183, 11; 321, 
nH 

Moiizz-aldauly, 98, 15. 

Mukharrim, 93, 183. 

Al-mukhtir b. Abi-‘Ubaid Altha- 
kafi, 195, 37. 

Al-multahiyini, 93, 25. 

Moldak-altawiVif, 17, 32. 

Almundhir b. Mé-alsama, 49, 22. 

Masi b. ‘Isi Alkisrowi, 122,14, 25; 
127,1; 128, 

Abi Musa ‘AV ash‘ari, 34, 26. 

Musailima, 192, 26. 

Al-mnushakkar, 324, 12. 

Abd-Muslim, 193,16; 194, 10; 330, 
2? 


Alnnv‘tadid, his months, 81, 14. 

Almu‘tagid, 12,29; 229, 5; 230,5; 
232, 8. 

Alm«“‘tagim, 5u, 27; 285, 19. 

Almutawakkil, 37, 9. 

Alnai’im, 337, 15; 948, 17. 


N. 


Nabateans, 70, 5. 

Nabulus, 25, 15. 

Nadab and Abihi, 274, 37. 

Al-na’ib Alimull, Abi-Muhammad, 
15,17; 53,34; 348, 12. 


459 


Nila, 39, 18. 

Nairanjit,  astrologico - dietetical 
ale 200, 20; 201, 45; 208, 
36; 211. 10; 238, 34. 

Al-najm, 344, 1. 

Najrin, $32, 4. 

Al-nakba, 340, 5. 

Nawes of the planets, 171, 43. 

Nasi, 192, 7. 

Nasi’, 14,39; 73,25; 330, 17. 

Nigir-aldaula, 93, 23. 

Nati, 324, 32. 

Al-nath, 343, 22. 

Nathan the prophet, 269, 12. 

Al-nathra, 345, 15. 

Nau’, 339, 6. 

Naubakht, 262,3 

Naujushauas b. tC ahareché, 4A, 8. 

Noaur6z the great, 201, 36. 

Nauréz of the Khalif, 258, 20. 

Nauréz, myths rel iting to, 199, 1. 

Nebukadnezar, 272, 36; 276, 19, 
30, 343 314, 13. 

Nestorians, 282, 8, 21. 

Bestarms, 282, 8; 291, 31; 306, 


New-year’s feast of the Sabians, 
316, 24, 

New-uioon, its calculation, 68, 1. 

New-mvon, observed by the Mus- 
lis, 76, 12, 35, 
New-moon calculation, introduced 
amongst the Jews, 68, 3. 
New-mouu, according to the Rib. 
banites and ‘Aniinites, 67, 16; 
69, 20, 33. 

Nights—Names of several nights 
with the Arabs, 74, 37; 240, 
24; 252, 27; 258, 18; 259, 
14. 

Nile, 230, 25. 

Nimriid, 100, 20. 25. 

Niw-sarda, 221, 35, 38. 

Ninive-faste, 311, 22. 

Notes from vatural history, pro. 
pele of numbers in the 

wation of blossoms, stones, 

ete., 294, 2, 36. 

Abi-Nu’as, 261,39. 

Nih b. Mansi, prince of Khura- 

sin, 330, 38. 

Nuwad-raz, 212, 12. 


460 


O. 


Observativns of the Hindus, 29, j 


26. 
Cheeratone of the Persians, 29, 


October, first month of tha year 
with the Syrians, 69, 42. 
oe intercalationia, 64, 82; 65, 


1,6. 
Oxvs, 252, 10, 21; 259, 6; 263, 5. 
P. 


Pahlavi, 108, 15. 

Paraclete, 190, 9; 304, 25, 27. 

Paradise, 288, 41. 

Péran, 22, 10. 

Parapsgma, 233, 18. 

Passover of the Jews, 66, 29; 14], 
28; 159, 6, 

Passover, 274, 44; 277,18. 

Patriarch of Antiochia, 284, 2. 

Patriarchs, 284, 20, 

Patriarchs of the Bible, 85, 9. 

Bt. Paul, 814, 29. 

Pentecontaring, 285, 12. 

Persians, their mra of creation, 17, 


Persian kings, 18,8. 

Persian chronology, 107, 1. 

Pervian characters, 186, 16. 

Peysian names of tbs zodiacal 
figures, 178,10, col. 3. 

Persian numes of the planets, 172. 

Péshdadh, 116, 17. 

Péshdadians, 18, 8; 110,18; 111; 
118; 114. 

Petrus, 311, 34 

sea ts 275, 8; 


Phition, 308, 4. Bs 
Philippus, p need vigtwag i, eS 
Pilg Ze well-pilgrimag: 
Projection, 357, 1. 
Prophets, 347, 22. 

ter, $32, 13. 
Ptolemaus, parapeymutist, 234, 26. 


827, 18; 328, 12, 


INDEX. 


Ptolsmana, 11,10; 33,84; 85,19; 
98, 25,27; 232,28; $22, 16. 

Piolemmus Philadelphus, 24, 15. 

Ptolemmaus, 108, 

Public offices in Byzantium, 288, 
83. 


Parim, 278, 24; 277, 12. 
Pythagoras, 187, 44. 


R. 


Rabnsnitee, 67, 16; 68, 21; 278, 


41. 
Rabi‘, 321, 17. 
Alribiya, be 22. 
Rai, 388, 
Alvi, vin pseudo-prophet, 18, 


Rajab, 321, 12. 

Ibn. waltakka', 888, 38. 

Remadin, 77, 10 ; $21, 28. 

Ramush, 291; 15 ‘ 

RB auch-Agham, 221, 15, 

Boil (Burjail fF), 196, 1 

Restoration of the Zoroastrian 
creed, 196, 43. 

Reanrrection Church in Jerusalem, 


287, 20. 
Ribas, 107, 86; 108, 27. 
Roman emperors, 104; 105. 
Riésh-Galatha, 19, 6. 
Résh-bhashshéna, 152, 16; 268,18; 
277, 10, 27,89; 278, 4. 
Rish-Hédesb, 155, 28; 157. 
Abi-Rih x“ Antonius Martyr), 
287, 89. 
nee . Shirwin, Ispahbad, 47, 


i] 
Rayan, 205, 33. 
sage us b. Albammal Ajhimyart, 49, 


8. 


Sabians, 13, 28; 186,28; 188, 26, 
42; 314, 1, 28; 329, 27. 

Sabzarta, 255, 11. 

Sa‘d-sldhahih, 349, |. 

Sa‘d-bula‘, 249, 6. 


Sa‘d-aleu‘hd, 849, 15. 

poeta 349, 21. 
Sa‘d-Nashira, 353, 32. 

aaa os Ja‘far), 79, 21. 
Safar, 32 . 

Fer Aisarbani, 357, 34. 

Sa‘id b. Alfadl, 199,28; 208,27. 


461 


Shibin, 208, 28. 
Shahiya, 41, 6, 


: Shihuama, 108, 1; 121, 2. 


Shahrazir, 44, 18. 
Shaibin, 245, 1. 
Shamanians, 189, 2. 
Shamma, 273, 20. 


css "Muhammad Aldhuhli, 116, | Aba-Karib Shammar Yur'ih, 49, 


Abi-Sa‘id Shédhan, 94, 40. 
Sail-al‘arim, 255, 9. 

Alsaldmi, 330, 4. 

Salamiyya, 263, 21. 

Spear is ‘Abdaliah b. Sallaw, 27, 


alain the Persian, 27, 19; 208, 
21. 

Salmanassar, 275, 41. 

Salomo-Legend, 199, 7. 

Samanides, 48, 5. 

Samaritans, 25, 2; 67,27; 270, 
$14, 20. 


Bamarkand, 191, 30. 

Simarra, 99, 10. 

Samfriis, 49,17. 

Samma‘in with the Manicheans, 
190, 26. 

Gawuel, 275, 16. 


San‘a, 324, 21. 
Tbn-Senkilé merrier 186, 27. 
Sarandib, 94, 845, 33. 


Al-garfa, "346, 19. 
Sard}, 316,5; 318, 6, 9. 
Sasanians, 198 ; 124; 195; 126; 


Sawa, 206, 28. 

Sawad-altirak, $14, 22. 

Sawer, 51,1. 

Seasons, table of, $23. 

Seasons of the Arabs, 322, 4, 15; 
323, cols. 8,9. 

Seasens 2f the Byzantines and 
hake a 322, 29; 323, 


Seasons of the Grecks, 322, 17; 
$28, cols. 4, 5. 
8ects, Mubammadan, 76, 16. 
Séder-‘dlam, 87,13; 88, col. 4; 90, 
29. 


Serptuaginta, 24, 4. 

Seven Sleepers, 285, 18. 
Sezagesimal system, 132,18. 
Al-eha‘bf, 34, 26. 


35. 

Shams-ahna‘éli, 1, 25; 9, 42; 12, 
12; 47, 17; 181, 30; 365, 
14, 

Al-shamsiyya, 314, 7. 

Shipir, Dhi-al’ aktaf, 39, 19. 

Shapir b. Ardashir, 190, 2. 

Shapir, 309, 2. 

Al-eharatiin, 348,1. 

Al-sharegb, 222, 5. 

Al-shaula, 348, 13. 

Shewwal, 321, 30. 

Shefat, 69, 31. 

Shi‘a, 177,7; 326, 2,19. 

Al-shihr, 324, 18. 

Shiraz, 217, 28. 

Shir wan.-Shahs, 48, 16. 

Siamese twins, 93, 23. 

Sibawaihi, 347, 1. 

Siddikin with the Manichmens, 
190, 18, 29. 

Sijistin, 52, 25; 235,37. 

Alsimak, 317, 20; 346,39. 

Sines b. Sabbi‘é, catholicus, 292, 


Simon Magus, 291, 43. 

Sinan b. Thabit, 232, 6, 21, 27, 30; 
238, 1, 5; 262, 14; 267, 9; 
322,34. 

Sindhbind, 11, 12; 29, 27; 31, 5; 
61,31; 266,25. 

Sirius, 261, 24; 337, 36; 338, 40. 

Siyiimak and Frawak, 108, 40. 

Siyawush, 40,42. 

Slavonians, 110, 4, 

Snake, signification of the appear- 
ance of a, 218. 

Solar cycle, 66,7; 164, 9. 

Solar year, 141, 29 

Solar Phe of the Jews, 64,1; 143, 


Boar sos of Muhammad b. Mist 
and Ahmad b. Misa, 61, 39. 

Solar year of the Persians, 61, 35; 
220, 16. 


av 


462 

Sophists, 96, 14. 

Spring of = Chase 266, 10. 

Abe shes Avis, LEAN; 953; 

wu -alhueain ; 

358, 34. 

Ibn-aledfi, 347, 40. 

Al-suha, 250, 18; 266, 20. 

Subfr, 824, 15. 

Abi-Tabir| Sulaimin Aljannabi, 
196,18; 197, $2. 

Al-gili, 36, 14; 87,9. 

Sun, 168, 21, 29. 

Sunday. —New Sunday, 304, 5. 

Sun.— Rays of the snn, 247° 3. 

Sdristan, 70, 6. 

Surnames of the AshkAniane, 117. 

Surnames of the Peshdadians and 
Kaydnians, 111. 

Surnames of ths Sasaniaus, 128. 

Surra-man-ra’ii, 98,7; 99,11. 

Ribas 291, 9. 

Syriaca, 19, 10. 

agra names of the planets, 172, 

1 4. 

Syrian fathers, 311, 88; 313, 

Syrian names of the figures i in the 

zodiac, 178, col. 4. 


tT. 


Tabaristan, 235, 5, 6. 

Al-tahir, 235, 30. 

Tahir b. Tahir, 211, 16. 

Tabmarath, 27, 44; 28,11, 

Tabrif, 23, 27. 

Tuk, 235, 19, 

Télakan, 195, 2, 88. 

Aba-Talib, 332, 12. 

Talisman, 217, 4. 

Tall-Harran, 318, 15. 

Tammiaz, $17,387. 

Al-tarf, 345,19. 

Te’ rikh, 34, 17. 

Tésu'd, 326, 1. 

Al-tawawie, 221, 32. 

Tekuféth, their calculation, 162,27; 
168, 3,18, 14; 169; 174, 1. 

Terminus paschalis, 300, 35. 

Thabir, 383, 18, 

Thabit b. Kurra, 61, 45; 252,44. 

Thabit b, Sinan, 98,6; 264, 28. 


INDEX. 


Thales of Miletus, $1, 45. 

Thamad, the names of their 
months, 74, 27. 

Theodorus of Mopsuestia, 196, 4. 

Theodosius Minor, 29], 80, 

Bhcodetty son of Artadins, 291, 


Theen “Alerandrinus, 12, 26, 88; 
80 


82, 
Thora, 331, 12, 24. 
Thora of the Jaws, 22, 40; 23,39. 
Thora of the Seventy, 24, 4; 25, 
36. 
aah of a Samaritans, 24, 18, 


Al-thurayy $96, 3 886; 27, 29, 88; 342, 
843, 34. 


Tiberias, 279, 3 
Ths tides, 260, ah 
Tigris, 252,22. 
Tmak 240, eee 
Ap, 205, 15. 
Titles of princes, 109, 14. 
Titles of the Samanides, 181, 9. 
Titles of the Vizirs, 181, 1. 
Titles during the Chalifate, 129, 1. 
Titles.—Table of Titles, 180. 
Taba, S51, 42. 
Tarka, their months, 88, cols. 1,3. 
Turtle-doves, 219, 11, 23. 
Tas, 216, 33. 
Tustar, 278, 25, 28. 
Tazin, 93, 10. 
Abt-alkisim ‘Ubsid-Alléh b. ‘Abd- 
allib b. Khurdadbih, 284, 39. 


Uv. 


‘Ubaid-Allih b. Atbasan Aluddah, 


48, 38. 
Abt-alkésim Uhbaid-Al4h b. Sulei- 
man b. Wahb, 38, 4. 
*Ubaid-allah b. Yahya, 36,19. - 
'Dkaz, $24, 22. 
Ukhara, 214, 28. 
‘Umar b. Alkhatt&h, 34,7; 49.29; 
196, §; $83, 41. 
Umayyades,326,13. 
Al’-’urdunn, 264, 2. 
. Urishlem, 19, 22, 25. 
| ‘Uthman b. 'Affan, 338, 27. 


TNDEX. 


+ 


Vacnum, 254, 15, 


W. 


Waikard, brother cf Hoshang, 206, 
17; 212, 31. 

Wakhsh, 225, 23. 

Wakhsh-Angim, 225, 23. 

Waki?! Alkadi, 106, 8. 

Wali-aldaula Ahd-Ahmad Khalaf 
b. Almad, prince of Sijistin, 
830, 37. 

Wardanshah, 47, 24. 

Warmth, 246, 41. 

Waterspout, 253, *6. 

Wasit, 188, 34. 

Water.—Rising of the water, 253, 
13. 

Weatber.—Predicting the  wea- 
ther, with the Arabs, 336, 26. 

Week, 58, 21, 22; 60,19. 

Week-days, 75, 33. 

Wijan b. Judarz, 206, 32. 

Winds, Etesian, 259, 43; 262, 25, 
30; 339, 32 

Winds.—Swa.low-winds, 248, 22. 

Winds,—-Bird-winds, 248, 17, 31, 
$4, 


Y. 


Yahya b. ‘Ali Alkatib Al’anbari, 
238, 39. 

Yahy& grammaticns, 225, 14. 

Yabya b Khalid b. Barmak, 37, 4. 

Abé-Yahyi b. Kuniisa, 335, 16; 
339, 35; 351, col. 12. 

Yahya b. Alnu‘niin, 191, 1. 

Ya'kab b. Ishak Alkindt, 245, 18. 

Ya‘kib b. Misa Alnikrisi, 269, 19; 
270, 14. 

Ya‘kah b. Tarik. 15,18. 

Yamama, 94, 36; 192, 38. 

Yaman 255, I. 

Yaedagird Alhiziri, 56, 7. 

Yaadagird b. Shabryér, 120, 16. 


463 


Yazdagird bh. Shépir, 38, 24, 31; 
56, 5; 121, 25. 

Yazdinbakbt, 191, 19. 

Year, definition, 11, 4; 12, 8. 

Great years, 91, 2, 20, 24. 

Small years, 91, 7. 

Solar year, 12, 26. 

Year, its beginning in the cyele of 
28 years, 170. 

Year, its beginning with the Chor. 
asinians, 184,37; 223, 1. 
Year, its heginning with the Egyp- 

tinns, 230, 24. 

Year, its beginning with the Jews, 

Year, its beginning with the Per- 
sians, 201, 4. 

Year, its heyinning with the Sa- 
bians, 315, 14, 18; 816, 24; 
318, 22 ; 319,5; 320, 2, col. 3. 

Year, its beginning with the Sog. 
dians, 184, 37 ; 220, 20. 

Year of the heathen Arabs, 18, 34. 

Year of Angustns, 103, 3, 5. 

Year of the Chorismians, 18, 5, 20. 

Year of the Christians, 18, 30. 

Yerr of Diocletianus, 103, 4. 

Years hetween the Flight of Mu- 
hawmad and his Death, 35, 28. 

Years of the Harrainians, 318, 32. 

Years of the Hindus, 15, 5. 

Year of the Jews, 62,25; 158. 

Kinds of Years with the Jews, 66, 
17. 

Year of the Jews, Sabians, Harri. 
nians, 13, 22. 

ba the Persians, 12, 40; 18, 

Year of the Péshdadians, 13, 8. 

Year of Philipps, 108, 3, 4. 

Years of Restitution, 160, 3. 

Year of the Sogdiana, 13, 5, 20. 

Year-quarters, their length with 
the Jews, 168, 34. 

Yehoyzkim, 271, 21. 


Z. 
Zacharia the ed ar 19, 29. 


Zadawaihi, 53,37; 202, 7; 202, 11, 
Zaid h. ‘Al’ Imam, 328, 32. 


464 


Zaidites, 79, 10. 
Alenfiti. 344 344, » BF 846, 11,26; 847, 


Ibn-Abi- Jaasis a, 196, 21. 
Zamzam, $32, 36. 
Zamzns, 194, 2; 204, 9,14; 269, 


Zamzami, 194, 17, 
Zanjan, 216, 40. 
Zau b. Tabmasp, 202, 45; 210, 4. 
Zedekia, 271, 8. 
Zoological notes, 92, 42- 
214, 11, 29. Mey 


INDEX, 


Zoroaster, 17, 12; 55, 29; 186,21; 
189, 26; 191; 45; 198, 34; 
196,40 ; 201, 40 , 205, 23 209, 
85; 211, 35: 220, 19; 221, 4, 
5; $14,4,6. 

Zorcastrians, 17, 10; 85, 23; 314, 
43318, 28. 

comcasisias in Chorasmia, 228, 
2. 


Zoroastrians in Transoxiana, 56, 


Alzuband, 847, 32. 
Alzubra, $46, 9. 


