PARIVARTANA YOGA 


BY 


ALAN ANNAND 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Dedication & acknowledgements 
Preface 


Part 1: Introduction to Parivartana Yogas 


Definitions 

Maha Parivartana Yoga 

Khala Parivartana Yoga 

Dainya Parivartana Yoga 

The mathematics of Parivartana Yogas 
The exchange uncertainty principle 
Evaluation of planets using avasthas 
Natural benefics and malefics 


The gunas 

Relative house lords 

Other participating yogas 

Yoga vichara 

Parivartana Yoga’'s psychological effect 
Control planets 

The gestalt of Parivartana Yoga 


Part 2: Interpreting Parivartana Yogas in the Rasi Chart 


Exchanges involving the 1st house lord 

Exchanges involving the 2nd house lord 
Exchanges involving the 3rd house lord 
Exchanges involving the 4th house lord 
Exchanges involving the 5th house lord 
Exchanges involving the 6th house lord 
Exchanges involving the 7th house lord 
Exchanges involving the 8th house lord 
Exchanges involving the 9th house lord 


Exchanges involving the 10th house lord 
Exchanges involving the 11th house lord 


Appendices, bibliography, index 


Appendix 1: Avasthas 

Appendix 2: Other major yogas based on lordship 
Appendix 3: The statistics of Parivartana Yoga 
Bibliography 

Index of case studies 

About the Author 


Dedication 


I'm extremely grateful, and indebted, to Hart deFouw whose many courses | at- 
tended for a dozen years and more. He’s a remarkable teacher with a great love for 
and mastery of his subject. Thanks to his inspiration and guidance, | left the com- 
fort of Western astrology to embrace the complexities of Jyotish. 


This book is dedicated to his teacher, Mantriji, who was instructed by his own guru 
to leave India in order to find in Canada a worthy student who'd spread Jyotish in 
the West. Little do we know of the amazing men who live in our midst! 


Blessings upon them both for sharing their knowledge in this sampradaya. May it 
inform and guide our lives, and those of our clients, friends and students. 


Acknowledgements 


Thanks to my wife Diane for her moral support and encouragement of my studies 
over these many years. Without ever ceasing to be a fan of, and editor for, my many 
mystery novels, she always said | was destined to write an astrology book. Maybe 
this is the one she was thinking of. 


Thanks as well to my friend and colleague Madhavi Rathod, who has shown her gen- 
erosity in so many ways since our first meeting in 1999 —- as a fellow student sharing 
notes, as a host sharing accommodations, and as my trusted ayurvedin. I'm espe- 
cially grateful for her editing of this work, in helping ensure that what I’ve written 
is faithful to the principles of our teachers. 


Preface 


In 2003, as partial fulfillment for my Level-II diploma with the American College 
of Vedic Astrology (ACVA), | had a choice of written assignments - a dozen detailed 
chart analyses, or a 10,000-word thesis on any subject within Jyotish. | chose to 
write a thesis on Parivartana Yogas, but the project quickly exceeded its original 
scope, and | ended up with a 30,000-word document. 


Upon its submission, Andrew Foss and Dennis Harness of ACVA were both compli- 
mentary, and encouraged me to publish it, either as is or in expanded form. But like 
many a writer, | had other projects in development and, before I knew it, a decade 
had passed. Like Alexander the Great’s mother, bound with restraints until a propi- 


tious time for his birth, it seems my thesis had to wait out its gestation period. 


In the interim, however, | had the opportunity to read and study further, and to 
discuss Parivartana Yogas with my teacher, Hart deFouw, who shared with mea 
number of insights that | subsequently incorporated. 


In preparing this book, I’ve tried to honor the six principles of classical exegesis 
that guide our study of Jyotish. One of them in particular, upapatti, advises the 
practitioner to observe logical and pragmatic consistency of interpretation — not to 
indulge in fanciful interpretations, lest we stray from, and risk diluting, a tradition 
that’s stood the test of time. 


If I've transgressed, | beg the forgiveness of both my teacher and my readers. 


PART 1: 


Introduction to Parivartana Yogas 


Parivartana Yogas are said to be among the most powerful of planetary combina- 
tions, having the capacity to link the effects of two astrological houses in a chart. 
However, aside from what we find explicitly in Mantreswara’s Phala Deepika, there's 
little in the literature — neither in the many classics of Jyotish, nor in modern books 
- to help us understand these yogas. So we begin with definitions. 


Definitions 
The word yoga itself means “yoke, or union”. In Jyotish, a yoga is formed, with only 


a few single-planet exceptions, when two or more planets are joined in a specific 
configuration or relationship. 


The word parivartana has many meanings. To include just a pertinent few from the 
Monier-Williams’ Sanskrit-English Dictionary, for example, we have: 


- turning or whirling around 

- rolling about, moving to and fro 

- inverting, putting in a reverse order 
- barter, exchange, return 


In essence, parivartana connotes mobility and movement, but only in the sense 
that the planets are symbolically mobile. A Parivartana Yoga has nothing to do with 
travel per se, but by implication, a Parivartana Yoga is dynamic, because the two 
planets are linked in a manner that allows transposition by sign and, therefore, by 
house. 


A Parivartana Yoga occurs when one planet occupies a sign whose lord is in the sign 
ruled by the other planet. In other words, Planet A occupies a sign ruled by Planet B, 
while Planet B occupies a sign ruled by Planet A. 


For example, consider the Moon in Aquarius while Saturn is in Cancer. The Moon 
resides in one of Saturn's signs while Saturn resides in the Moon’s sign. This creates 
a bond, or sambandha between the Moon and Saturn. More specifically, for an Aries 
ascendant it would create a Parivartana Yoga linking the 4th and 11th houses, since 
these are the houses directly occupied and exchanged. 


Note: Although Saturn also rules the 10th house of Capricorn, the Moon does not 
occupy the 10th, so our range of interpretation would be restricted to an intertwin- 
ing of the 4th and 11th houses. 

This phenomenon of reciprocal sign occupation often goes under the name of “sign 


exchange”. The two planets effectively swap signs, just as two owners of time-share 
condos might, as arranged through their co-op administration, live in each other's 


condo to experience the benefits of a different locale. Thus, both parties enjoy a 
“non-localized" experience otherwise unavailable to them. 


In Western astrology, this is commonly referred to as “mutual reception". Again, the 
words themselves add nuance. One planet is receptive to another who reciprocates 

in kind. For example, Canada maintains an embassy in the USA which, in turn, main- 
tains an embassy in Canada. Diplomacy is thus facilitated, presumably to the bene- 

fit of both countries, because they’re mutually receptive to each other's concerns. 


The exchange of house lords invokes the cooperation of their respective houses. But 
as we all know, the nature of houses varies significantly. Broadly speaking, we can 
thus divide houses into two distinct groups: 


* Positive houses include the kendras or angular houses (1-4-7-10), the 
trikonas or trinal houses (5-9) and the so-called neutral houses (2-11). 


* Negative houses include the dusthanas (3-6-8-12). 


Of the latter group, we can further distinguish between what are called “serious” 
dusthanas, ie, the trikasthanas (6-8-12), and the “mild” dusthana of the 3rd house. 
The trik houses are problematic under most circumstances, and are considered un- 
desirable locations for any planet. Somewhat better is the 3rd house, which is an 
upachaya bhava (house) representing difficulties at the outset, but also promising 
improvement over time proportionate to effort. 


The various exchanges of house lords can thus be grouped into three distinct cate- 
gories of yoga, each with a more specific designation: 


Maha Parivartana Yoga 


Maha means “dignified, exalted, glorious, majestic, nobly born." A Maha Parivar- 
Highligkter: ra Fy Poor 
tana Yoga therefore implies a touch of divine fortune. 


fT ee ee ee eee nee an een ee ee nn een ene nnn n nnn nnn nnnns 


The yoga involves the mutual exchange of any two positive house lords, ie, the lords 
of houses 1-2-4-5-7-9-10-11. There are 28 such possible combinations. Generally 
speaking, these yogas confer positive results for both participant houses, the de- 
gree of which is subject to other considerations to be discussed later. Mantreswara 
said of this yoga: 

The native born with a Maha Yoga in his birth chart will be endowed 

with the blessings of the Goddess Shri, will have enormous wealth, will 

have garments of variegated colors, wear gold ornaments, will be richly 

rewarded by the sovereign with gifts and administrative authority, and 

possess vehicles, wealth and children. (Phala Deepika 6:34) 


In this quotation, we see another key element of classical exegesis, that of 
arthavada, or eulogy. As is the practice of many classical authors, Mantreswara 
provides a laudatory description of the multiple benefits accruing to the fortunate 
possessor of a Maha Parivartana Yoga. Should we take him literally and expect that 


every client with this yoga will enjoy good fortune, wealth, governmental favor and 
beautiful children? 


No, we shouldn't be misled into thinking this is a literal interpretation. 
Mantreswara merely intends to impress upon us that this is a good yoga and that, 
given the appropriate support, it will generate benefits of some kind or other in the 
life of the individual. 


Khala Parivartana Yoga 


Khala means “abusive, contentious, mischievous, quarrelsome, villainous, wicked.” 
A Khala Parivartana Yoga therefore implies something of a troublemaker. 


The yoga involves the mutual exchange of the 3rd house lord with any one of the 
positive house lords, ie, houses 1-2-4-5-7-9-10-11. There are eight such possible 
combinations. Generally speaking, these yogas confer mixed results for the par- 
ticipant houses, subject to time, effort and the condition of the house lords them- 
selves. Here again, Mantreswara comments: 


The native born with a Khala Yoga in his birth chart is sometimes 
haughty and at times very gentle and polite. His life is dotted with both 
success and failures. At times he has God's plenty and at another he is 
in distress, poverty, misery and the like. (Phala Deepika 6:33) 


Dainya Parivartana Yoga 
3 Highlighters: --------------772-00r crt reoo- 


Dainya means “affliction, depression, misery, wretchedness.” A Dainya Parivartana 


Yoga therefore implies difficulties and misfortunes. 


The yoga involves the mutual exchange of any trik lords, ie, the lords of houses 
6-8-12, among themselves and with any lord of the remaining houses, ie, 
1-2-3-4-5-7-9-10-11. There are 30 such possible combinations. Generally speaking, 
these yogas confer negative results for the participant houses, the degree of which 
is also subject to other considerations. Again, in Mantreswara’s words: 


Whatever he ventures, it is full of hurdles. (Phala Deepika 6:33) 
Again, in a passage as damning as this, we must remember this is an example of 
arthavada, where eulogy is balanced by condemnation. Will every client with a 
Dainya Yoga be a foul-mouthed neurotic loser tormented by foes and circumstances 
alike? No, but he will experience difficulties subject, and proportionate, to other 
fixed karmas indicated in his chart. 


The mathematics of Parivartana Yogas 
As noted above, the 12 house lords of the chart are capable of forming 66 combina- 


tions of exchange, which render the full spectrum of Parivartana Yogas —- 28 Maha 
yogas, eight Khala yogas, and 30 Dainya yogas. 


Although there are 66 combinations possible, only 57 are available for any given 
ascendant. Of the nine excluded, examination of any chart will reveal these follow- 
ing — five by virtue of dual rulership, and four by virtue of astronomical limitation: 


* Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn each own two houses in every 
chart but, by definition, none can exchange places with itself. For example, 
for an Aries ascendant, there's no exchange between the 1st and 8th houses 
because Mars rules both. Likewise, the 3rd and the 6th are both ruled by 
Mercury, the 9th and 12th by Jupiter, the 2nd and 7th by Venus, and the 10th 
and 11th by Saturn. Similar logic applies to every other ascendant. Thus, five 
yoga combinations are excluded — one for each dual house lord. 


* Because the orbits of Mercury and Venus lie within that of the Earth’s, their 
apparent angular separations from the Sun cannot exceed 28 and 48 degrees 
of longitude, respectively. Therefore, there can be no exchange between 

the lords of Leo and Gemini (Sun and Mercury), or Leo and Taurus (Sun and 
Venus). Thus, another two combinations are excluded. 


* By the same token, it’s impossible for Mercury and Venus to be separated 
by more than (28 + 48 =) 76 degrees. Therefore, there can be no exchange 
between the lords of Taurus and Virgo (Venus and Mercury), or Gemini 
and Libra (Mercury and Venus). Thus, yet another two combinations are 
excluded. 


Exchanges among the five true planets are the most common. Technically, the Sun 
is a star, and the Moon a satellite, while the true planets — aside from Earth - are 
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. They each own two signs and, except 

for Mercury and Venus, are unrestricted in their freedom of angular separation. 
Exchanges are least common between (a) the Sun and the Moon because they own 
only one sign each, and (b) the Sun and Mercury or Venus because of their orbits as 
described above. 


The exchange uncertainty principle 


In quantum physics, the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle presents a paradox. It 
states that, in the realm of atomic particles, you can’t know everything. You can 
know the particle's exact position but not its exact energy state, or know its energy 
state but not its position. Not both at the same time. 


Thanks to the oscillatory nature of the planetary exchange, the Parivartana Yoga is 
equally dynamic. On paper we see the planets in their true astronomical positions. 
But in our mind’s eye we can also see them in their hypothetical positions - post-ex- 
change - in their own signs. 


On a gross level, each planet switches to the other sign with no degree of partic- 


ularity. In practice, however, there are two different ways of imagining a planet's 
post-exchange position. At this more subtle level, once we take into account their 
specific degrees, we'll see that the Parivartana Yoga is potentially more complex 

than previously imagined. 


Planets in identical degrees: 

The simplest case is when the two planets in exchange occupy the same degree 
position in their respective signs, eg, Saturn at 13 Aries, Mars at 13 Capricorn. Under 
exchange, Saturn moves from 13 Aries to 13 Capricorn, while Mars moves from 13 
Capricorn to 13 Aries. 


Yet one or both of these planets may be in eclipse, combustion or planetary war, 
each configuration contingent upon degree proximity to another luminary or 
planet. If one is combust, post-exchange the other will probably be too. If one is in 
planetary war, post-exchange the other will likely meet the same fate. 


Bear in mind these are general statements. The caveats are that (a) only the Moon 
is eclipsed by the Sun, (b) different planets become combust at varying degrees of 
proximity to the Sun, and (c) planetary war only applies between true planets. 


But you get the general idea. If your house is on fire, and we exchange houses, !’ll be 
on fire too — unless I’m wearing an asbestos suit. 


Planets in different degrees: 

A far more common dynamic emerges when the two planets occupy different 
degrees in their respective signs. The greater that difference, the more likely that, 
aside from sign occupation, the pre-exchange and post-exchange conditions could 
be dramatically modified. 


Let's say in this case, Saturn is at 25 Aries, Mars at 13 Capricorn. When these two 
exchange positions in our mind’s eye, should each swap their degree positions with 
that of the other, or should they carry their degree positions with them? In other 
words, should a planet in exchange occupy only the footprint left by its exchange 
partner, or should it create a new footprint in the other sign? 


Which of these two post-exchange positions should apply? Without trying to be 
evasive, we might say both. Whether you accept this answer or not is a measure of 
your ability to hold ambiguity in your mind. 


Exchanging degree position: 

Under both sign and degree exchange, Saturn leaves 25 Aries and assumes Mars’ 
position at 13 degrees Capricorn. Likewise, Mars leaves 13 Capricorn and assumes 
Saturn's position at 25 Aries. 


Let’s assume Mars at 13 Capricorn was in planetary war, while Saturn at 25 Aries 
is combust. If we allow the planets to step into each other’s exact degree position, 
what affected one will likely now affect the other, taking into account the caveats 
mentioned above. 


Transferring degree position: 

But if we allow each planet to carry its own degree position into the sign exchanged, 
it might well escape the fate the other previously suffered. Yet, at the same time, 

it may step onto a landmine that had lain undisturbed by the other planet in the 
exchange. 


If you think there's no distinction between these two options, let’s add a few addi- 
tional players to this hypothetical chart: Venus at 13 Aries, the Sun at 25 Aries, and 
Jupiter at 13 Capricorn. 


Under the first exchange scenario (swapping degrees), Saturn goes from 25 Aries to 
13 Capricorn. It escapes debilitation and combustion but ends up in planetary war. 
Meanwhile, Mars goes from 13 Capricorn to 25 Aries. It forfeits exaltation, escapes 
planetary war, but ends up combust. 


Under the second scenario (transferring degrees), Saturn goes from 25 Aries to 25 
Capricorn. It escapes debilitation in Aries but avoids planetary war in its own sign. 
Meanwhile, Mars goes from 13 Capricorn to 13 Aries. Although it forfeits exaltation 
in Capricorn, it eludes combustion in its own sign, but winds up in planetary war 
with Venus. 


One might think this a needless complication, but Parivartana Yoga is already an 
exercise in imagining “what if?” these planets exchange signs. It’s not an astronomi- 
cal reality. It’s a hypothetical construct that allows us to see a new pattern based on 
planetary symbiosis. Like everything else in Jyotish, the consideration of such de- 
tails may lend useful nuance to our interpretations. 


Evaluation of planets using avasthas 


Given the examples above, we now understand that planets can exist in different 
states - positive, negative or neutral - before and after their exchange. It’s therefore 


useful to have a means by which we can assess the state of the participant planets 
and thus the gestalt of the exchange itself. Fortunately, the system of avasthas pro- 
vides the discretionary lens through which we can view the planets. 


The Sanskrit term avastha means “state” or “condition”. In the Vedanta tradition, 
the word avastha is used to describe the three most common states of conscious- 
ness: waking (jagrat), dreaming (svapna), and sleep (sushupti). 


In Jyotish, several avastha systems qualify the condition of planets. The well-known 
Baladi Avastha system is based on a planet's longitude within one of five ranges in 
each sign. In odd signs, these reflect “states” of infancy (0-6 degrees), adolescence 
(6-12 degrees), youth (12-18 degrees), old age (18-24 degrees), and death (24-30 
degrees). In even signs, the order is reversed. 


For our purposes, however, we'll use a more general set of avasthas based ona 
planet's occupation by sign, and its astronomical condition irrespective of sign. The 
list below identifies these dozen avasthas: 


Avastha - Descriptive meaning — Technical meaning 
Pradipta - Exulting, blazing — Exaltation sign 
Sukhita - Happy - Moolatrikona sign 

Svastha - Own - Own sign 

Mudhita - Delighted - Sign of a friend 

Shanta - Peaceful — Sign of a natural benefic 
Shakta - Powerful, capable - Retrograde 
Khala - Base, low —- Sign of a natural malefic 
Vikala - Imperfect, marred — Sign of an enemy 
Nipidita - Tortured, defeated - Planetary war 
Atibhita - Very frightened — Debilitated 
Sudhuhkita - Very distressed - Combust 

Kopa - Infirm, eclipsed - Eclipsed 


For the Moon, which is never subject to planetary war, we can add two other 
avasthas, one positive and one negative: 


(+) Full Moon, ie, “full-ish" being opposite the Sun or within one sign on ei- 
ther side of that opposition 


(-) New Moon, ie, “new-ish” being conjunct the Sun or within one sign on 
either side of that conjunction 


In practice, we can expedite our planetary analysis by restricting the number 

of avasthas under consideration. By culling this list, I’m not suggesting certain 
avasthas are meaningless, only that some are less vital to the analysis, eg, planets 
in moolatrikona (already covered as own sign), planets in signs of benefics/malefics, 


and planets in signs of friends/enemies. 


By the same token, we could also add to the list. For example, an important qualita- 
tive measure is dig bala - a planet's directional strength. After exclusions and addi- 
tions, our core list of avasthas (four positive, four negative) now looks like this: 


Strong planet Weak planet Moon phase 
~+Ownsign  —=—s--Debilitation = +strongwithin —__ 
+Exaltation - Combust one sign of full 
+ Retrograde - Planetary war = weak within one 
sign of new 
+ Dig bala - Eclipse 


For those unfamiliar with the definitions of these terms, please refer to Appendix 1. 


Aside from this abridged set of avasthas, we can also consider a few other variables 
in the analysis of Parivartana Yogas: the exchange of benefics vs malefics, guna 
lords and relative house lords. Although these other considerations are less vital 
than the avasthas themselves, they’re still capable of adding nuance to an interpre- 
tation. 


Natural benefics and malefics 


By virtue of their lordship of positive or negative houses, the three types of Pari- 
vartana Yoga already take into account the functional nature of planets. But we can 
also glean additional meaning from the benefic or malefic nature of participant 
planets: 


* Venus and Jupiter are unconditional benefics. In other words, their benign 
nature does not change under any circumstances. 


* The Sun, Mars and Saturn are unconditional malefics. Their malignant na- 
ture does not change under any circumstances. (Noted earlier: the nodes are 
also unconditional malefics but are left out of this discussion because they 
don't form Parivartana Yogas.) 


* The Moon and Mercury are conditional benefics. Their nature depends 
upon their circumstances: 


- The Moon is a benefic so long as it is greater than six tithis (72 de- 
grees) away from the Sun; otherwise it’s a malefic. 


- Mercury is a benefic if it: (1) stands alone in a sign, (2) is influenced 
only by natural benefics, or (3) is influenced by natural malefics but 
also by natural benefics that are stronger. Otherwise it is a malefic. 


For Maha Parivartana Yogas (fortunate), an exchange of natural benefics may fur- 


ther enhance the positive meanings of these yogas, perhaps through harmonious, 
enlightened or socially-acceptable circumstances. 


An exchange of natural malefics may still render positive results, but the planets’ 
malefic nature might emerge through self-serving, aggressive, traumatic or unethi- 
cal actions or circumstances. 


An exchange between a benefic and malefic may be colored by circumstances ac- 
cording to which planet exerts greater strength, although the outcome will likely be 
positive, as expected for this category of yoga. 


For Dainya Parivartana Yogas (unfortunate), an exchange of natural benefics may 
somehow soften the negative consequences of these yogas, perhaps through well- 
intended actions turning in poor results. 


On the other hand, an exchange of natural malefics may amplify the negative re- 
sults expected via circumstances that go from bad to worse. 


An exchange between a benefic and malefic may be colored according to which 
planet exerts greater strength, although the outcome will likely be negative, as 
expected. 


The gunas 


We can also consider the gunas of the participating planets. In Sanskrit, guna means 
"strand", “quality” or “constituent”. In Yoga and Samkhya traditions, it refers to the 
triad of forces — sattva, rajas and tamas - thought to be the building blocks of na- 
ture. Patanjali, author of the famous Yoga Sutras, said the gunas have dispositions, 
respectively, for brightness, activity, and inertia. Other interpreters have used terms 
such as balance, mobility, and inertia. 


The planets can be grouped by gunas, in accordance with their natures: 


* The Sun, Moon and Jupiter are sattvik. They represent principles of self- 
awareness, mental calm and spiritual devotion. 


* Mercury and Venus are rajasik. They evoke activity, communication, com- 
merce and relationships. 


* Mars and Saturn are tamasik. They personify inertia, sloth, materialism 
and violence. (Note: Rahu and Ketu are also tamasik, but don’t generate 
Parivartana Yogas.) 


With the gunas in mind, we can interpret an exchange accordingly. If one guna dom- 
inates, its nature may prevail. Let’s assume Mercury and Venus are in a Parivartana 
Yoga. Since both are active and mobile rajasik planets, we might expect the yoga to 
manifest readily. 

Conversely, if tamasik Mars and Saturn are in exchange, the yoga may manifest only 
with difficulty, because the nature of the guna is inertia. 

Where two different gunas are involved, we can examine the planets to assess 
relative strengths or weaknesses, and thus identify the guna likely to dominate the 
outcome. 


We might also describe variations on a theme according to the dominant guna. 
Sattvik planets in a Maha Parivartana Yoga may suggest good things happening 
effortlessly as a result of positive karma. Rajasik planets in the same yoga may 
imply positive results as a direct consequence of personal effort. But with tamasik 
planets, we might resign ourselves to long-term gain only after time, trials and 
traumas have exacted their toll. 


Relative house lords 


We can also consider the relative house positions of planets in exchange. “Relative 
position” means we ignore absolute house numbers, but count houses as being X/ 
Y houses removed from each other. For example, take the 1st house and 5th houses. 
When we count (inclusively) from the 1st to the 5th, we get five houses removed. 
When we count (always forward, and inclusively) from the 5th to the 1st, we get 
nine houses removed. Thus the 1st and the 5th are said to be in a 5/9 relationship. 


Following are some general themes for this limited number of exchange variations: 


Highlightars: ><<22-= 22sec gs<s2S2ctcarcrotinst Once rincds estas ss ie ss ceas 


* Relative lords 3/11, themes of sti and friends, desire and ambition, 
effort and income, communication and community. 


* Relative lords 5/9, themes of children and fathers, gurus and disciples, 
study and authorship, creativity and spirituality. 


* Relative lords 6/8, themes of conflict and trauma, service and transforma- 
tion, lawsuits and legacies, illness and disease. 


Other participating yogas 

Under certain circumstances, two planets in exchange will also form some other 
kind of yoga for that chart. Eg, within the Maha Parivartana Yogas (exchange of 
positive house lords), consider only the following scenarios involving the lagnesh, 
or ascendant lord: 


* Exchange of the 1st with the 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th or 10th lords is also a 
Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga, suggesting power and success arising from a 
fortunate combination of effort and luck. 


* Exchange of the 1st with the 2nd or 11th lords is also a Dhana Yoga, sug- 
gesting accumulation and wealth. 


* From these two examples alone, we can see that certain exchanges of 


house lords can produce more than one positive yoga, thus further elevating 
prospects for personal success, wealth or other desirable attributes. 


By the same token, consider the Dainya Parivartana Yogas, with an exchange involv- 
ing a trik lord (eg, lord of the 6th) with the lord of any other house. However, if we 
restrict our focus, we see that: 


* Exchange of the 6th lord with either the 8th or the 12th lords is also a 
Viparita Yoga, suggesting reversal of misfortune. 


* This example shows that certain exchanges of house lords can simultane- 
ously produce both a positive and negative yoga, potentially modifying the 
negative Dainya Yoga to a “success after tribulation” scenario as expected 
under the Viparita umbrella. 


Aside from forming these additional yogas all on their own, by virtue of the houses 
they exchange, one or the other of the planetary pair in a Parivartana Yoga can also 
be in sambandha with a third or fourth planet with which it forms yet another yoga. 


Obviously, certain yogas will be readily visible when viewed in the planets’ natural 
(pre-exchange) state. But as discussed earlier, the latent power of the Parivartana 
Yoga lies in its participants’ potential to be viewed in their post-exchange state as 
well, However, we are not looking for post-exchange yogas, but for virtual interac- 
tions that might affect the avasthas (eg, combustion, planetary war) of the post-ex- 
change planet. 


Before discussing these other yogas in which the Parivartana pair are sometimes 
engaged, let's make a few distinctions about the formation of yogas. Some are 
formed only by certain planets, eg, the five true planets for Pancha Maha Purusha 
Yoga, the Moon and Mars for Chandra Mangala Yoga, the Moon and Jupiter for Ke- 
sari Yoga, the Sun and Mercury for Budhaditya Yoga, and so on. 


Although the nodes don’t own any signs to facilitate the house exchange required 
of Parivartana Yoga, they sometimes align with one of the Parivartana’s players to 
form node-specific yogas like Kala Sarpa Yoga and Guruchandala Yoga. 


In considering other yogas that could co-exist with Parivartana, I’ve focused less on 
planet- and node-specific yogas and more on those that are based on house ruler- 
ship. Parivartana Yoga itself hinges on house occupancy and lordship, so my prefer- 
ence is to concentrate on yogas formed by these same house lords. 


Following are the additional major yogas typically formed by a Parivartana pair as a 
consequence of house rulership: 


* Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga 
* Raja Yoga 

* Dhana Yoga 

* Viparita Yoga 


Complete definitions of these yogas can be found in Appendix 2. 


Yoga vichara 


In yoga vichara (analysis) we study the participating planets of all yogas to note 
which houses they occupy, which houses they rule, and the relative strength of each 
planet. As discussed above, any assessment of planetary strength or weakness re- 
quires us to examine their avasthas. 


Consideration of the avasthas can reveal a world of difference between even the 
most common yogas. For example, Chandra Mangala Yoga is formed by either the 
association or mutual aspect of the Moon and Mars. In a lunar cycle, this happens in 
two signs out of 12. Therefore, one in six people has a Chandra Mangala Yoga. 


The Moon and Mars could associate in any sign. The Moon could rotate through the 
signs, with Mars opposing. Thus, there are 24 distinct combinations for Chandra 
Mangala Yoga. Are they all equal? 


Let's consider the possibilities for association: 
1. Moon/Mars conjunct in Aries (Moon ordinary, Mars in its own) 
2. Moon/Mars conjunct in Taurus (Moon exalted, Mars ordinary) 
3. Moon/Mars conjunct in Cancer (Moon in its own, Mars debilitated) 
4. Moon/Mars conjunct in Scorpio (Moon debilitated, Mars in its own) 
5. Moon/Mars conjunct in Capricorn (Moon ordinary, Mars exalted) 
6. Moon/Mars conjunct in any other sign (Moon and Mars ordinary) 


Of the above, numbers 1-2-5 are strongest because their “team” exhibits strength 
without weakness. Numbers 3-4 are intermediate because their team exhibits both 
strength and weakness. The other seven combos included in #6 are lackluster be- 
cause they exhibit no strength. 


And, for example, a few of the potential oppositions: 
1. Moon in Taurus, Mars in Scorpio (Moon exalted, Mars in its own) 
2. Moon in Cancer, Mars in Capricorn (Moon in its own, Mars exalted) 
3. Moon in Scorpio, Mars in Taurus (Moon debilitated, Mars ordinary) 
4. Moon in Capricorn, Mars in Cancer (Moon ordinary, Mars debilitated) 


Among these, the first two are tied in strength, while the second two are tied in 
weakness. The other eight combinations not listed here offer one strong/ordinary, 
and the rest just plain ordinary/ordinary. 


Our analysis of Chandra Mangala Yogas could be extended even further by throwing 
other variables (including planets) into the mix to create situations of eclipse, new 
moon, full moon, combustion, planetary war, retrogression of Mars and dig bala. 


What's the point? Merely to demonstrate that yoga vichara has the capacity to make 


great distinctions between yogas of the same class. 


With Parivartana Yogas, however, such analysis is inherently more complicated 
because of the mobility of the two planets involved. Effectively, we must assess the 
before-and-after situation for each exchange. 


By definition, each of the two planets will move to a post-exchange state of svastha 
(swa) - its own sign. But in its pre-exchange state, it occupies another sign in which 
its avastha could be positive, negative, mixed or neutral. 


Even after switching the two planets in our minds, however, we must also re-ex- 
amine the new state of affairs to determine whether combustion, planetary war or 
eclipse might now plague one of the planetary pair. 


Parivartana Yoga’s psychological effect 


The Parivartana Yoga is unique among yogas in its capacity to "psychologize” its 
effects, as opposed to manifesting them only in a mundane way. In other words, 
it affords us an opportunity to understand the inner tension of the individual (the 
“why”) in addition to the outer actions and circumstances (the “how") that such a 
psychological state attracts into the person’s life. 


Keep in mind that this inner tension may or may not be resolved, depending on the 
planets involved and what their overall avasthas suggest as an outlet or, alterna- 
tively, an impasse. More subtly, the person himself may not be consciously aware of 
or able to articulate this inner tension. Yet it will be the role of the jyotishi, not only 
to identify “where it hurts” but also to recommend a viable resolution. 


When one of the pair is initially compromised by debilitation, combustion, 
planetary war or eclipse, but subsequently moves to its own sign without any 
complications, that planet is potentially a source of improvement in the native’s 
life. Conversely, when a planet exchanges a neutral situation for a mixed one, eg, 
svastha coexistent with some negative avastha, then we shouldn't expect such a 
stellar outcome. 


Aside from its own avasthas, a planet's participation in other pre-exchange yogas 
is further indication of its capacity to create the tension inherent in the Parivartana 
Yoga. However, we do not examine the post-exchange state for virtual yogas, but 
simply for relationships with other planets that might affect the exchange planet's 
avasthas, which in turn is another measure of its potential to resolve that same 
tension. 


Ultimately, it’s the symbolic oscillation between sign/house positions that creates 
a reciprocal tension between the participant planets of a Parivartana Yoga. Further, 
this tension will ultimately be resolved by the planet that enjoys the best of both 
worlds, as opposed to the planet that achieves basic security in the post-exchange 
state of svastha but suffers in all other regards, whether pre- or post-exchange. 


Consider Mars in Capricorn and Saturn in Aries. Mars will oscillate between exalta- 


tion and its own sign, while Saturn oscillates between debilitation and its own sign. 
All other things being equal, Mars will function as the more robust of the pair, and 
swing the Parivartana Yoga in the direction of its house occupation, rulership, and 
natural significations. 


For example, an exchange of 4th and 7th lords may invoke issues related to security 
and partnerships. Psychologically, this suggests a person whose emotional happi- 
ness may have been made vulnerable by an unstable relationship with the mother. 
Such a psychological imprint might then manifest in multiple ways. The person may 
form attachments to partners who are distant or always traveling. Or experience 
domestic problems when a prospective partner enters their personal space. Either 
situation echoes to some degree the issues of emotional security vis-a-vis a signifi- 
cant nurturing other. 


An exchange between 7th and 10th houses may arouse issues related to career and 
partnerships. Psychologically, the person may have been conditioned by author- 
ity figures to believe that a supportive partner is critical to achieving a successful 
career. This could play out as seeking status through relationships, accepting only 
suitors who meet the standards of income or power, meanwhile rejecting those with 
other desirable but less socially-visible qualities. Whether we project our ambitions 
onto our partners, or pursue our own careers at the risk of our relationships, de- 
pends upon the overall avasthas of the participant planets. 


A Parivartana Yoga acts like an irritating grain of sand beneath an oyster's tender 

mantle. It is an agent provocateur, one of the samskaras of this particular birth. In 
order to integrate it, the oyster exudes an inner essence, or rasa, until the grain is 

completely enveloped. Only when this particle of grit has been transformed into a 
pearl is the oyster ready to offer its beauty to the world. 


The degree of irritation caused by the Parivartana Yoga is measured by the pre- 
exe lange avasthas of its participant planets. The potential quality of the pearl is 


tegration may be reasonably clean. The more grit that enters the picture, however, 
the greater is its potential to compound the irritation, and thus compromise the 
integration. 


In the first scenario, the individual performs psychological alchemy, resolves their 
inner tensions, and gives birth to their pearl. But in the second scenario, the person 
encounters more complications than he has “juice” to deal with, and is unable to re- 
solve the demands of his inner daemon. As a consequence, he may spend a lifetime 
in a revolving door of psychological impulses that manifest as problematic tensions 
in the areas of life suggested by the weaker of the two planets exchanged. 


Control planets 
Most Parivartana Yogas have a “control planet”, ie, one with the capacity to resolve 


the inherent tension of the exchange, and to swing the resultant outcomes in its 
favor. 


Within every exchange, generally one planet is stronger than the other, no matter 
whether we view it as absolute or relative strength. Consider a street fight. I’m a 
normally fit man, but if | face off with a 30-year-old champion of any martial art, 
he’ll beat me because he operates from a position of absolute strength. But if | pick 
a fight with an octogenarian, I'll probably win, because | operate from a position of 
relative strength, ie, I'm ordinary, but he’s relatively weaker. 


So, within any Parivartana Yoga, we can have multiple scenarios with planets that 
are strong, weak, mixed and ordinary. Determining the appropriate control planet is 
sometimes straightforward, sometimes complicated, sometimes impossible... 


Following is a pro forma to help determine the control planet for any given pair 
in an exchange. Although context is everything, these factors are presented in de- 
scending order of importance. 


1. Compare the primary dignities of each planet: (+) rulership, exaltation, ret- 
rogression, dig bala, full moon, (-) debilitation, combustion, planetary war, 
new/eclipsed moon. Remember that some planets can be of mixed condition, 
ie, both strong/weak, eg, a full Moon in Scorpio. 


2. If the two planets are ordinary, or tied for strength, or tied for weakness, 
consider their involvement in other yogas (pre-exchange only) as a measure 
of their importance in the chart. 


3. If they’re still tied for control, compare other factors: (a) whether they are 
associated with or aspected by the ascendant lord or the Moon, (b) whether 
they are stabilized by benefics or destabilized by malefics. 
On occasion, we’ll encounter situations where neither planet enjoys a decisive qual- 
ity to make it the control planet. In such cases, where nothing exists to break the 


apparent tie, the exchange pair will operate as coequals within the context of that 
yoga. 


The gestalt of Parivartana Yoga 


Given the various examples presented earlier, we see that planets can exist in differ- 
ent states —- positive, negative or neutral - before and after their exchange. The 

system of dignities provides the primary lens through which we can view the partic- 
ipating planets, and thereby judge with discretion the gestalt of the exchange itself. 


In summary, we should analyze Parivartana Yogas with four considerations in mind: 


1, the houses occupied by the participant planets, since these will indicate 
the primary themes invoked by the yoga, 


2. the avasthas of the participant planets, before and after exchange, whose 
evaluation will identify the “control” planet most likely to resolve the ten- 
sions created by the yoga, 


3. the presence and condition of other planets in the exchange houses, which 
will determine the nature and magnitude of their influence on the outcome 
of the yoga, and 


4. the respective degree positions of the participant planets, whose “range 
of influence” will determine their potential to interact intimately with other 
planets and yogas in the chart. 


These guidelines will hopefully provide the reader some indication of how to in- 
terpret Parivartana Yogas. As in much of Jyotish, the perennial challenge is to add 
nuance and detail to a basic premise. Ultimately, this rests upon our ability to view 
the situation from different perspectives until, like a hologram, the light of our per- 
ception produces a faithful image of reality. 


PART 2: 


Interpreting Parivartana Yogas in the Rasi Chart 


Following are interpretations of the 66 Parivartana Yoga combinations, These are 
based upon, and extrapolated from, brief statements found in Brihat Parashara 
Hora Shastra, Chapter 26, Effects of the Bhava Lords. Thus, each interpretation is 
prefaced by two pertinent quotations from BPHS: for example, (1) lord of the first 
in the second, and (2) lord of the second in the first. Whereas the first quote may 
suggest one outcome, and the second another, the expanded interpretation that 
follows is a combination of both. 


I've also referred to G.S. Agarwal's Practical Vedic Astrology, whose succinct com- 
ments on Parivartana Yogas were literally one-liners. After that, | simply fleshed 
out expanded statements using other ideas from authors cited in the bibliography, 
comments made by teachers, and my own interpretation. 


Under each Parivartana Yoga, you'll find: 
* two quotes from BPHS re lords in reciprocal houses, 
* a descriptive interpretation of each exchange, 


* famous people whose charts have that PVY combo, 
* a biography of one famous person with that combo, 
* the rasi chart for that person, and 

* an analysis of that person’s Parivartana Yoga. 


The birth data for all charts used is provided in the Index of Case Studies. My origi- 
nal source data was AstroDataBank (now hosted by Astrodienst), whose compilation 
was based upon work originated by Lois Rodden. In these examples I've included 
only charts whose birth data met the “AA” or “A” rating in the Rodden system: AA 
for accurate data as recorded by family or state, A for accurate data as quoted by 
the person, kin, friend or associate. 


Although I’ve tried to select the best examples, please note that, no individual 

life will perfectly epitomize the mutual reception in question. In other words, we 
shouldn't expect a mutual reception to describe a whole life; in fact, it will only 
represent a facet of that life. There are many other astrological factors in play - 
including other astrological patterns formed by the same planetary pair. Hopefully, 
the examples offered will illustrate some of the key principles attributed to each 
mutual reception. 


Exchanges involving the 1st house lord 


Exchange of 1st and 2nd lords 
Parashara says: 


* When the lord of the Ascendant has been placed in the 2nd house, the native 
will be gainful, learned, happy, good-natured, religious-minded, honorable, 
and will have many wives and good qualities. (Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, 
Chapter 26: Sloka 2) 


* When the 2nd lord has gone in the Ascendant, the native will be endowed 
with sons and wealth, will be inimical to his family, lustful, hard-hearted and 
will do other's jobs. (BPHS 26:13) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dhana Yoga) whose lords are in a mutual 
2/12 relationship. Because it’s a yoga formed with positive-house lords, we expect it 
to be generally positive in the realm of all things associated with the second house - 
family and diet, speech and vision, wealth and knowledge. 


So the native has a good character: intelligent, upholding family values, strong- 
willed, passionate, and demonstrating good behavior. He is close to his family, and 
benefits both materially and intellectually from his association with immediate 
relatives. He has good study habits, is articulate, has a facility for languages, and a 
good voice for speaking or singing. Possessing a good vocabulary, he has command 
of his language, such as would a teacher or a writer. 


sight (both right eye associations), and is a good observer and logician, such that he 
can make successful plans for the future. 


In money matters, he’s a natural, and is skilled in accumulating and managing liq- 
uid assets. He benefits through family business or profession, with less effort than 
his peers, and is generous in making gifts to family members and charities. He is 
knowledgeable in his field and can exchange expertise for income. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Margery Allingham, mystery writer; Andrea Bocelli, opera singer; Marlon Brando, 
actor; Richard Branson, entrepreneur; Leo Buscaglia, psychologist; Claudia Cardi- 
nale, actress; Rosemary Clooney, singer; David Coulthard, race car driver; Bobby 
Darin, singer; Alain Delon, actor; Jim Densmore, musician; Dionne quintuplets; 
Linda Evans, actress; Ché Guevara, revolutionary; Robert Graves, writer; Mohan 
Koparkar, astrologer; Bob Mackie, fashion designer; Katherine Mansfield, writer; 
Van Morrison, musician; Joyce Carol Oates, writer; Vance Packard, writer; Arthur 
Rimbaud, poet; Ernst Roehm, Nazi; Joseph Salk, scientist; Sam Waterston, actor; Bill 
Wilson, founder of AA. 


Case study 


Arthur Rimbaud, the precocious French boy-poet of the Symbolist movement, rev- 
olutionized poetic language of the time via his use of free verse. He subsequently 
inspired the Surrealists and many writers of our own age. He was a brilliant student, 
and considered by his teachers to be a child prodigy. At school he studied Greek 
and Latin, excelled in rhetoric, and began writing serious poetry, in both French and 
Latin, by the age of 13, only to completely abandon writing before the age of 21. 


Disenchanted by home life, he ran away several times, and took up a homosexual 
relationship with the poet Paul Verlaine. Both famous and infamous by age 18, he 
thumbed his nose at the Parisian establishment and cultivated a complete derange- 
ment of the senses via absinthe and hashish. He was known as a libertine and a 
restless soul, an archetypal enfant terrible. A willing expatriate many times over, he 
learned English, Russian and Arabic in his many travels throughout Europe, and to 
Indonesia, Yemen and Ethiopia. He died in great pain of bone cancer at age 37. 


Ke oz Su on 
Ma uss | Me 2655 


Debilitated Venus in 1st house Virgo exchanges with Mercury in 2nd house Libra. 
Post-exchange, Mercury gains dig bala. Neither planet is subject to combustion. 


Before and after exchange, Mercury and Venus associate with weak luminaries. As 
karaka of fathers, the Sun is debilitated; as karaka of mothers, the Moon is dark and 
waning. Thus, this mutual reception also invokes family problems, in part because 
the exchange planets are in a 2/12 relationship. Rimbaud’'s father deserted the 
family when Rimbaud was very young; his mother was severe, prompting him to run 
away several times. 


Since both Mercury and Venus are rajasik, there's a certain pitch of activity in 2nd 
house affairs. His writing was highly inspired, experimental, and hallucinatory, 
while his drinking and drug consumption contributed to the shaky state of his 
finances. 


On the positive side, the association of Venus and the Moon in mutual kendras is 

a signature of an artist. Venus also participates by association in the Kesari Yoga 
formed by the Moon and Jupiter in kendras, which gave Rimbaud his highly adven- 
turous spirit, taking him in travels across Europe and into North Africa. 


Since Mercury is ordinary while Venus is debilitated, this gives Mercury the relative 
strength to function as control planet for this exchange. Its occupation of the 2nd 
inclined Rimbaud to substance abuse, linguistics and writing. 


Exchange of 1st and 3rd lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Ascendant lord be placed in the 3rd house, the native will be 
equal to a lion in valor, will have all kinds of wealth, will be honorable, will 
have two wives, and be intelligent and happy. (BPHS 26:3) 


* Should the 3rd lord be situated in the Ascendant, the native will have self- 
made wealth, will be disposed to serve, valorous and intelligent, although de- 
void of learning. (BPHS 26:25) 


This is a Khala Parivartana Yoga whose lords are in a mutual 3/11 relationship. Asa 
yoga including a mild dusthana lord, we expect it to have an “alternating current” 
effect, giving as many problems as benefits. 


Involving the 1st and 3rd lords, we get a sense of personal (mis)adventures, based 
perhaps on some inherent character or physical flaw, and finding expression via the 
arts, sports or some other activity that demands dexterity or skill. 


The native has a somewhat dubious or shifty character: sometimes polite, other 
times speaking harshly of others. Generally unsteady of mind, he has trouble con- 
centrating for any lengthy period of time. Because he is inclined to seek adventures, 
he thinks a lot about sex, is inclined to wander, and may therefore pursue more than 
one relationship at a time. 


Siblings are a focal element in his family life, and he may have one among them 
who is near and dear to his heart, somewhat like a best friend. Because of the 3/11 
relationship of the lords, his younger siblings enjoy gains or profits. 


His courage waxes and wanes - bold on one occasion, timid on another. Frequently 
challenged and troubled by competition, his efforts in life are inconsistent. Because 
of frequent failures, he may develop a do-or-die attitude toward his ambitions. 
Sometimes foolhardy, he endures physical risks, suffering injuries to the neck, 
shoulder or arms. Because of his strenuous physical activities, he may eat more than 
others. 


He has special talents in sports or the arts, especially in fields that require signifi- 
cant physical dexterity or adroitness. 


Famous people with this yoga 


George W. Bush, US President; Bob Crane, actor; Robert Desnos, surrealist; Zipporah 
Dobyns, astrologer; Jane Fonda, actress; Tama Janowitz, writer; Diane Keaton, 
actress; Evel Knievel, daredevil; Sugar Ray Leonard, boxer; Bette Bao Lord, writer; 
Michael Milken, investor; Pele, soccer player; Saint Teresa of Avila, religious icon; 
Liz Smith, gossip columnist; Richie Valens, singer; Mike Wallace, TV personality; 
Dwight Yoakam, singer. 


Case study 


Evel Knievel, the hell-raising stuntman who rode his motorcycle to daredevil fame, 
has been an active athlete in many sports throughout his life, eg, skier, pole vaulter, 
hockey player. After leaving high school he got a job at a local mine but was fired 
after he performed a “wheelie” with a large earth-moving vehicle and crashed into 
a power line. As a young man, he launched an environmental protest campaign to 
protect elk in national parks, a form of penance after he’d been discovered guiding 
deer-hunting trips in Yellowstone National Park. For awhile, he was an insurance 
salesman and ran a Honda dealership at which he offered $100 discounts for any 
customer who could beat him arm-wrestling. 


He’s a veteran of multiple stunt injuries (75 ramp-to-ramp motorcycle jumps) that 
have resulted in 433 fractures in 35 bones, thus earning him a spot in the Guinness 
Book of World Records as the survivor of “most bones broken in a lifetime.” In get- 
ting repaired, he’s endured no fewer than 14 operations, during one of which he 
contracted hepatitis C, and was obliged to have a liver transplant! 


With a past as checkered as his medical record, Knievel has been arrested for vari- 
ous acts of violence - assaulting his girlfriend, sexually soliciting an undercover cop, 
and beating his press agent with a baseball bat, a rules infraction that earned him 


freon em || 


six months in jail. 


Debilitated Jupiter in 1st house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 3rd house 
Pisces. The two planets are both retrograde and therefore strong. Given Jupiter's 
role as karaka for the liver, its debilitation is suggestive both of his hepatitis and 
the subsequent transplant of organs. Jupiter is in a Kesari Yoga with a strong Moon, 
giving him public fame. Although Jupiter escapes debilitation to become swa in the 
exchange, it loses dig bala in the process and is thereby somewhat compromised. 
Call it impaired judgment leading to rash actions. 


Lagnesh Saturn in the 3rd is aspected by Mars, giving both a Dharma Karma Ad- 
hipati and a Dhana Yoga. However, with two malefic and tamasik planets, this per- 
haps explains his aggressive streak, his dogged defiance in the face of danger, and 
the multiple accidents that have earned him so many broken bones. 


Since Jupiter is debilitated while Saturn is ordinary, this gives Saturn the relative 
strength to function as control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 3rd 
gave Knievel a love of risky adventures. 


Exchange of 1st and 4th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Ascendant lord be in the 4th house, the native will be blessed 
with paternal and maternal happiness, many brothers, and will be lascivious, 
virtuous and charming. (BPHS 26:4) 


* When the 4th lord is situated in the Ascendant, the native is blessed with 
learning, virtues, ornaments, lands, conveyances and maternal happiness. 
(BPHS 26:37) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) whose lords 
are in a mutual 4/10 relationship from kendra houses. As a yoga formed via positive 
house lords, we anticipate good results, and due to their angularity, visible results. 


Engaging the 1st and 4th lords, we expect a strong personality or some charisma to 
play a role in achieving something notable in 4th house themes, such as psychology, 
education, community, or property. 


The native has a stable and dynamic character, a strong sense of morals, and loyalty 
for things associated with his ancestry, domestic environment and country. He is 
fond of his mother, with whom he shares physical or personality characteristics, and 
whose values he respects. She has a good profession, reputation or status, and is a 
significant influence on his character. 


His education is solid, in a field related to earth sciences, psychology or teaching. 
He is attached to his home and takes pride in his property, vehicles and major pos- 
sessions. He tends to accumulate fixed assets. He might well be a loyalist, a patriot 
or a nationalist, insofar as it concerns his civic community, political allegiances or 
country. 


His happiness is linked to his physical well-being. He pays a lot of attention to phys- 
ical fitness and health, clothes and personal attractiveness. Happiness of the body 
implies sexual enjoyments, which leads him to seek sexual experience as a source of 
happiness. Having achieved his own satisfaction, he may further address his activ- 
ities to making others happy, especially those that could be considered part of his 
community or constituency. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Joe Adonis, Mafia boss; Robert Altman, producer; Shirley Temple Black, actress; Jeff 
Bridges, actor; Joe Cocker, singer; Billy Crystal, comedian; Samantha Fox, actress; 
Nancy Hastings, astrologer; Henri Landru, serial killer; Maria Montessori, educator; 
Rod Stewart, singer; Sigourney Weaver, actress; Tennessee Williams, playwright. 


Case study 
Maria Montessori, founder of the renowned educational system and school network 


that bears her name, was the first woman in Italy to receive a medical degree, de- 
spite hostility from male colleagues during her studies. 


Although she had a child after an affair with a fellow doctor, she declined to marry 
because she didn’t want to resign her position. Instead, she placed her son in foster 
care until he was a teenager, after which he became an assistant in her research. 


During her medical work in orphanages, hospitals and asylums, she became con- 
cerned about the low level of scholastic ability in the children she encountered. 
With no formal training in education per se, she got involved in the schooling of 
children. 


One of her key insights was that environment had a huge effect on learning. Fol- 
lowing this revelation, she subsequently evolved a unique method of teaching, an 
educational methodology that has since been exported around the world. Young 
students learned through activities involving exploration, manipulations, order, 
repetition, abstraction, and communication, before later moving on to reasoning, 
imagination, and creativity. 


She became a public advocate for children’s education before founding the Casa 
dei Bambini schools that formed the model of the network that ultimately went 
international. 


Venus in 1st house Cancer exchanges with the Moon in 4th house Libra. Lagnesh 
Moon obtains strength pre-exchange via dig bala in the 4th, while Venus achieves 
dig bala post-exchange, thus reinforcing the theme of education via the exchange of 
these two natural benefics. 


Venus with a debilitated Mars in the ascendant creates two Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yogas. The pair is hemmed by malefics Sun and Rahu to form a Papa Kartari Yoga 
that suggests her scientific training, as well as the many obstacles she faced in her 
profession. The combination of Venus and the Moon in kendras is also a signature of 
an artist, and although Montessori did not follow this particular career path, one of 
the main tenets of her philosophy was that environment (architecture and interior 
decorating) both had a substantial influence on learning outcomes. 


Since both exchange planets are ordinary, neither seems a candidate for control 
planet. If forced to choose, however, the association of Venus with a debilitated 
Mars diminishes its status. This arguably makes the Moon the control planet for this 
exchange. Its placement in the 4th house evokes the system of education for which 
she became renowned. 


Exchange of 1st and 5th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the Ascendant lord has gone into the 5th house, the native will have 
mediocre happiness through his sons, the first born will not live; he will be 
honorable, wrathful and favorite to a king. (BPHS 26:5) 


* Should the Sth lord occupy the Ascendant, the native will be scholarly, be 
blessed with progenic happiness, be miserly, crooked, and a stealer of other's 
wealth. (BPHS 26:49) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Raja Yoga) wherein the lords are in a mutual 
5/9 relationship from trikona houses. An exchange of (positive) dharma house lords 
suggests benefits of purva punya, or good karma from previous lives. Involving 
houses that represent the atma (Self), ahamkara (ego) and buddhi (discriminating 
mind), we anticipate a substantial personal, intellectual or spiritual experience. 


As a consequence, the native has an intellectual disposition, good intelligence and 
a facility for both learning and teaching. He enjoys good karma (purva punya) from 
the virtuous deeds of his previous life, the fruit of which is manifested in the quality 
of his mind, his creativity, and the nature of his children. 


His mind is alert, concentrated and aware. Within his circle, he is respected for 
his intelligence. Because he is spiritually inclined, his thoughts turn naturally to 
prayers, positive visualizations and mantras for improvement. 


His children display good intelligence. He delights in telling them stories, both 
fanciful and true. His children are obedient, and he in turn respects their opinions, 
such that in time he falls under their influence. His children pursue higher studies in 
combination with foreign travel. 


He enjoys success in government and politics. He is also lucky in gambling and spec- 
ulation, especially related to sports. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Karl Barth, theologian; Carol Channing, actress; Tim Curry, actor; John Flamsteed, 
astronomer; Paul René Fonck, WW11 ace pilot; Peter Frampton, musician; Ulysses 
S. Grant, US President; Alex Haley, writer; Stephen King, writer; Lynne Palmer, 
astrologer; Algernon Swinburne, poet; Dennis Wheatley, occult author; Steve Win- 
wood, musician; Michael York, actor. 


Case study 


Stephen King, one of the most commercially successful writers of all time, has 
proven himself both prolific and astute when it comes to knowing what fears lurk 
beneath the beds of America. His 54 horror fiction novels have sold more than 350 
million copies, many of which have been adapted into feature films, miniseries, 


television shows and comic books. He has received multiple awards for his writing. 


Although incredibly successful in his professional life, King has had his share of 
personal misfortunes. Several years after overcoming substance addiction, he was 
struck by a van while strolling on the road near his home. The crippling accident 
sidelined him for many months, principally from a broken hip and a right leg so 
shattered that doctors initially considered amputating his leg. 


King is politically vocal, speaking out on behalf of Democrats and against Repub- 
licans, particularly the Tea Party. He donates roughly $4 million to charities. He 
stands at the center of a writing family. His wife Tabitha has published nine novels, 
and their two sons have both published short story collections. King loves hard rock 
music, which plays in the background while he writes, and is a big fan of the Boston 
Red Sox. 


Mars in 1st house Cancer exchanges with the Moon in 5th house Scorpio. Both are 
debilitated, and gain doubly by resuming their own signs. With both ascendant lord 
and occupant debilitated, we expect some dysfunctionality. To his credit, King ad- 
mitted to years of alcohol and cocaine abuse. Equally to his credit (and perhaps the 
redemptive power of his Parivartana Yoga), he pulled himself back from self-de- 
struction in time to continue his stellar career. 


Mars and Saturn in the 1st form two Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas, a saving grace 
in light of these two prime malefics joining forces in his lagna. Suffice to say, King 
must have teetered on the dark edge more than once. No wonder he wrote such 
darkly macabre material. 


The Moon with Jupiter in the 5th forms both a Dharma Karma Adhipati and Kesari 
Yoga, albeit afflicted by the Rahu-Ketu axis. A brilliant, creepy mind (5th) is only 
one manifestation of the exchange. Physical (1st) problems are also likely, eg, the 
substance abuse now under control, the near-fatal accident with a runaway vehicle, 
and the ongoing potential for blood/liver disorders. Since the Moon and Mars are 
mutual friends, we get a sense that the exchange will work out, particularly on a 
mental/spiritual plane, and in relations with his children, all being invoked via the 
5th house. 


Since Mars is associated with its enemy Saturn, while the Moon is with its friend 
Jupiter, this suggests the Moon as the appropriate control planet in this exchange. 
Its placement in the 5th house of creative self-expression speaks to his prolific ca- 
reer as a writer. 


Exchange of 1st and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the Ascendant lord having fallen in the 6th house, the native 
is deprived of bodily pleasures. If the Ascendant lord is under the influence of 
a malefic and has no benefic aspect on him, he will be troubled by an enemy. 
(BPHS 26:6) 


* If the 6th lord is situated in the Ascendant, the native will be sickly, famous, 
inimical to his relatives, adventurous and virtuous. (BPHS 26:61) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship. 
Because the exchange involves a trik lord, we expect mostly difficulties, although 
since the 6th is also an upachaya house, things can improve through time and 
effort. 


The native has a contentious character, and is both brave and jealous. He hoards 
money. Eager to compete, and intent on constant malevolence, he gets involved in 
litigation and other conflicts. He creates obstacles for his enemies. 


His health is good, the result of either a strong constitution free from disease, a 
powerful physique developed through sports, or a resistance to illness built up via 
frequent minor ailments. 


He makes enemies as easily as others make friends, both in his place of employment 
and in his family circle. Of the latter, he enjoys a special love/hate relationship with 
his mother's siblings, who experience hardships, illness or danger in their lives. 


Very much a realist, not a daydreamer, he works hard for a living, and takes special 
pride in physical labor. Drawn to fields such as medicine, police, and the military, he 
shares a special affinity with animals, either as pets, or through veterinary work. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Sri Aurobindu, spiritual leader; Eddie Albert, actor; Milton Berle, comedian; Sandra 
Bernhard, comedienne; Kenneth Branagh, actor; Natalie Cole, singer; Morgan 
Fairchild, actress; Federico Fellini, director; Edouard Manet, artist; Marie Antoinette, 
Queen of France; Julianne Moore, actress; Jackie Robinson, baseball player; Mark 
Spitz, Olympic swimmer; Algernon Swinburne, poet; Penny Thornton, astrologer; 
Robert Zoller, astrologer. 


Case study 

Edouard Manet, an artist of the 19th Century whose name is almost synonymous 
with the Impressionist movement, started out to pursue a naval career, but after 
a year as a sea cadet, flunked his naval exams and decided to become an artist 


instead. Extremely prolific, with a catalog of over 400 works, he defied artistic 
conventions of the day by using beggars, prostitutes and common Parisians as his 
subjects, and rendering them in a bold rough style that contrasted with the detailed 
work of his contemporaries. 


Without seeking controversy, he was labeled a radical painter, and vilified by the 
art establishment for his treatment of certain subjects. During the Franco-Prussian 
War, he served as a gunner in the National Guard, before resuming his place at the 
center of an Impressionist group that included Degas, Renoir and Monet, the latter’s 
name being so similar as to cause confusion for the public, and great irritation to 
Monet. 


Saturn in 1st house Leo exchanges with the Sun in 6th house Capricorn. This is an 
exchange of malefics who are mutual enemies. The 6th house themes were man- 
ifested in multiple ways: his uncle’s influence in developing his artistic taste and 
technical bias; his stints in both the merchant marine and the National Guard; the 
fierce public criticism of his “bohemian” work; and even his competition with Monet 
for the name most identified with Impressionism. 


His strong (retrograde) Saturn is involved in a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga via the 
mutual aspect with Jupiter. Assisted perhaps by the power of this yoga, Manet be- 
came a ground-breaking influence for the Impressionist movement via his technical 
innovations, and shared acclaim in conjunction with notoriety. Since lagnesh Sun is 
tainted by association with the Rahu-Ketu axis, Manet’s health ultimately suffered, 
and he died from gangrene, despite the amputation of a leg. 


Since the Sun is ordinary and afflicted by the nodal axis while Saturn is retrograde 
and stabilized by Jupiter, this acknowledges Saturn as the appropriate control 
planet. Its position in the ascendant speaks to his hard-won fame and his many 
physical struggles. 


Exchange of 1st and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the Ascendant lord is a malefic and he occupies the 7th house, the native’s 
wife will not live. If the Ascendant lord is a benefic planet, the native is an 
aimless wanderer, penurious, of ascetic disposition, or becomes a king. (BPHS 
26:7) 

* In case the 7th lord happens to fall in the Ascendant, the native will traverse 
other people’s wives, be wicked, skillful, be devoid of fortitude, and will be 
afflicted by windy diseases. (BPHS 26:73) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) wherein 

the lords are in a 7/7 relationship from kendra houses. This sambandha serves to 
strengthen each other’s significations (the Self and the Other), and would typically 
be made public due to the angularity of the two participants. 


Because of this dynamic, ie, a literal opposition between the 1st and 7th lords, we 
expect this yoga to strongly manifest in the arena of relationships, whether per- 
sonal, social or professional. 


The native has an amorous disposition, and is interested in the spouses of others. 
Tantalized by desire, he finds it difficult to settle with one partner, such that he is 
bound to an endless cycle of attraction and repulsion, union and separation. His life 


may thus be a carousel of partners, such that it signifies a major theme of his life. 


His inclination for relationship-building will also play out in a professional context, 
eg, through fields such as customer relations, sales and marketing, public relations, 
performance art or international diplomacy. Effectively, the person becomes an 
agent of some kind or other. 


He is interested in travel, partly for business, but mostly due to a profound restless- 
ness that makes him wander endlessly. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Giulio Andreotti, politician; Rupert Brooke, poet; Rick Danko, musician; Doris Day, 
actress; John Denver, singer; Indira Gandhi, politician; James Earl Jones, actor; 
Shirley MacLaine, actress; Maximilian |, German Emperor; Susan Sarandon, actress; 
Robert Stack, actor; Jacqueline Susann, writer. 


Case study 


Jacqueline Susann, the original and undisputed Queen of Pulp Fiction, is the only 
writer to have three novels in a row hit #1 on the New York Times’ bestseller list. A 
pot-smoking teenager with a reputed IQ of 140 who had a lifelong, warped crush 
on her philandering father, Susann subsequently failed as an actress, model, singer, 
and playwright before turning to writing in her 40s. Her enormously devoted hus- 


band worked tirelessly to promote her career, in spite of her chronic infidelities 
with comedians and stars of both sexes, including Eddie Cantor, George Jessel, Ethel 
Merman and Coco Chanel. 


Considered a better schmoozer than a writer, she swore like a trucker, punched 
agents and critics who crossed her, and once threw a drink at Johnny Carson in a 
bar. Plagued with insecurities and pain from a mastectomy, she drank and took pills 
to cope, once attempting suicide by trying to leap from her terrace, after which her 
husband handcuffed himself to her to prevent further attempts. She loved pets, 
basing her first book on her poodle, and had one child, a son who was diagnosed 
autistic and spent his life institutionalized. 


zz 
Ve i001 
Sa 23s 


Su ow 
MeR x22 
fame fine || 


The Moon in 1st house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 7th house Cancer. 
Lagnesh Saturn enjoys dig bala in the 7th and thus exerts considerable strength. But 
pre- or post-exchange, Saturn opposes Chandralagna, and because Saturn is natu- 
rally obstructive, it takes over as an anti-social or anti-marital influence. This may 
explain Susann’s desperate impulse to try to please everyone, all the while pretend- 
ing she didn’t really give a damn, leading to convoluted relationships. 


The Moon/Saturn mutual aspect also constitutes a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga. 
We get a sense of achievement via partnerships, albeit with considerable friction. 
The addition of Venus on the Moon/Saturn axis puts an added spin on things, im- 
mersing her in dramatic arts, sex, and luxury living. 


As lord of the 5th and the 10th, Venus amplifies the Moon/Saturn Dharma Karma 
Adhipati Yoga by adding three more of the same, one with the Moon, and two with 
lagnesh Saturn, Finally, Saturn is embraced by a Shubhadhi Yoga involving Jupiter, 
Venus and Mercury, thus intensifying the relationship themes of her life, via both 
her promiscuity and her devoted spouse. 


Note her career breakthrough at age 45, halfway through her Saturn dasa, after 
Saturn had transited her ascendant to cue the yoga into manifestation. 
Since the Moon is full, while Saturn has dig bala, the choice of control planet is not 


immediately clear. But the Moon is aspected by two malefics, while Saturn enjoys 
the association/aspect of two benefics, thus suggesting Saturn's greater influence. 


Its placement in the 7th reflects her preoccupation with relationships — marital, 
extra-marital and professional. 


Exchange of 1st and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Ascendant lord occupy the 8th house, the native will be Siddha 
Vidya Visharada (having the knowledge of occult powers), sickly, thievish, 
extremely wrathful, a gambler, and given to traversing other's wives. (BPHS 
26:8) 

* If the 8th lord happens to be placed in the Ascendant, the native will be 


bereft of bodily pleasures, be detractor of gods and Brahmins, and will have 
wounds. (BPHS 26:85) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship. 
Because this exchange involves a trik lord, who has no virtues other than trial-by- 
trauma, we expect problems in spades. 


The native’s character is flawed by nature, such that he is valiant in performing 
mean acts, and stubborn in doing virtuous acts. He is a gambler, a cheat, and a thug, 
or associates with people of a similar disposition. 


His longevity is good, but he has bad habits that do harm to his health, or place him 
in physical jeopardy. Therefore, his life is marked by constant mishaps, accidents, 
traumas and reversals of fortune, such that he is chronically plagued by injuries or 
disease. His partner's family is also liable to illness, conflict, and litigation. 


He is prone to getting into situations of abuse, violence, sexual servitude, or finan- 
cial mismanagement, especially concerning the money of business or romantic 
partners. 


Curious, he loves mysteries, and is skilled in research and investigation. He has 
knowledge of occult subjects but is generally disrespectful of traditional religion. 
This may favor careers requiring stealth, secrecy, extreme measures, and reversal of 
circumstances. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Noam Chomsky, philosopher; Glenn Close, actress; Abigail Folger, coffee heiress; 
Amyr Klynck, adventurer; Buz Myers, astrologer; Ilie Nastase, tennis player; Dinah 
Shore, entertainer; Sirhan Sirhan, assassin; August Strindberg, writer; Edgar Winter, 
musician. 


Case study 

Abigail Folger, heiress to the Folger coffee fortune, studied art history at Harvard 
and later became active in civil rights and community welfare, doing volunteer 
work with ghetto children in Los Angeles. Sadly, she gained her 15 minutes of fame 
by being in the wrong place at the wrong time. 


In the spring of 1969, both Roman Polanski and his wife Sharon Tate were away so 


much on film projects that they asked Folger and her boyfriend to house-sit their LA 
home. The night of August 8th, when Sharon Tate and another friend were visiting, 
four members of Charles Manson’s cult crashed their party. Along with three other 
victims, Folger was brutally murdered in a killing spree that shocked America, and 
put one more nail in the coffin of the hippie era. 


Although he had no direct exposure to Folger, Charles Manson was subsequently 
convicted under the “joint responsibility” rule of law. The murder conspiracy that 
he’d hatched was intended to ignite an apocalyptic race war he called “Helter 
Skelter.” 


The Moon in 1st house Sagittarius exchanges with Jupiter in 8th house Cancer. 

This is an exchange of natural benefics, both of which are sattvik planets. Lagnesh 
Jupiter in association with the Sun creates a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga. Jupiter 
gives up its exaltation for its own sign, but gains dig bala by transference. Post- 
exchange, if we consider the Moon to assume the same degree position as Jupiter, it 
(virtually) becomes eclipsed. 


Although the exchange of sattvik benefics via the 8th suggests the handsome 
legacy to which she was heir, both parties to the exchange are damaged. The 8th 
house occupant is triply afflicted — by the aspect of Mars, association with the Sun, 
and contamination by the Rahu-Ketu axis. The Moon, which occupies the 1st house, 
is harmed by the close aspect of a Saturn made powerful via dig bala. 


Note as well the Guruchandala Yoga (Jupiter with Rahu) formed in the 8th house. 
Although he was certainly not her mentor, Manson’s status as a cult leader and the 
role he played in her death lends credence to the notion that Folger would suffer 
from a “flawed guru relationship.” 


Since the Moon is full while Jupiter is exalted, the choice of control planet is not 
immediately clear. But the Moon is afflicted by only one malefic, while Jupiter is 
afflicted by three, thus suggesting the Moon’s greater influence. Its placement in 
the 1st reflects the dubious (and ephemeral) fame of a life cut short by tragedy. 


Exchange of 1st and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the Ascendant lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will be fortu- 
nate, dear to the people, devotee of Lord Vishnu, skillful, eloquent speaker, 
and will be endowed with wife, sons and wealth. (BPHS 26:9) 


* If the 9th lord is placed in the Ascendant, the native will be fortunate, pros- 
perous, be honored by the king (or government), good natured, charming, and 
be honored by the people. (BPHS 26:97) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Raja Yoga) wherein the lords are in a mutual 
5/9 relationship from trikona houses. Since two dharma lords are involved, we 
again get the sense of punya, although this time it is good karma generated as a 
consequence of the current life. 


The native has a virtuous character, and is disposed to religious observances and 
charities. As a consequence, he enjoys the favor of both church and state, and re- 
ceives some recognition or honors from them. 

He is fond of his father, with whom he shares some physical or personality charac- 
teristics. If we adopt the perspective of the 9th house, and see the exchange from 
the 5th house away, we might also assume that the father is an adventurer, a specu- 
lator, or one who takes risks. 

He creates good karma in his present life, largely through the proper application 
of his mind, and his devotion to both father and guru. He is dedicated to his spiri- 
tual development, and is fortunate in finding a proper guru, whom he serves as his 
master. 

He does well in the fields of law, higher education, publishing and the travel indus- 
try. He travels extensively, either for his higher education or for spiritual pilgrim- 
age, and may take up residence in a foreign country. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Cyd Charisse, dancer; Derek Clayton, track & field star; Christie Hefner, publisher; 
Erica Jong, writer; Gary Kasparov, chess grandmaster; Jacques Lacan, psychoana- 
lyst; Ricky Martin, singer; Nick Nolte, actor; Franz Schubert, composer; Irving Wal- 
lace, writer; Harold Wilson, politician. 


Case study 


Franz Schubert, the 19th century Austrian composer, left behind more unfinished 
music than any great composer. He wrote as many as eight songs a day and, by 
the time he died at age 31, had a colossal lifework of nearly 1,000 compositions, 
the most famous being the aptly-titled “Unfinished Symphony”. The 12th child of 
a schoolteacher father who inspired him to play music, he studied first under the 


parish church’s choir master, and later under the famous Antonio Salieri, Mozart's 
teacher. For a time he worked at the same school as his father, played music at 
church, and composed masses of his own. 


Poor and unworldly, he relied on the support of friends but, despite a bohemian 
lifestyle, always awoke early and composed every day until noon after which he 
went out drinking. He had a mysterious love life, and probably contracted syphilis 
from a servant girl. He was subsequently treated with mercury, which left him bald 
for over a year, and gave him headaches and vertigo until his death. Although he 
died of “nerve fever”, it was more likely due to an occlusion of a cerebral artery re- 
sulting from syphilis. 


Saturn in 1st house Gemini exchanges with Mercury in 9th house Aquarius. Saturn 
and Mercury are friends, and neuters. Lagnesh Mercury associates with a Kesari 
Yoga in the 9th, a combination which further generates two Dharma Karma Ad- 
hipati Yogas with Jupiter and a Dhana Yoga with the Moon. Saturn in the ascendant, 
which has first-tier strength via its retrogression, mutually aspects Venus to gener- 
ate a Raja Yoga involving the 5th and 9th lords. The 9th house themes are strongly 
evident via the influence of his father, the church, and a famous “guru”. 


Pre- or post-exchange, Jupiter influences both the 1st and 9th houses and their 
lords, thus inspiring his enormous productivity. 


Post-exchange, Mercury gains dig bala in moving to the 1st, but in transferring its 
own degree position, becomes seriously compromised by close contact with the 
Rahu-Ketu axis and its Kala Sarpa Yoga. Dysfunctional relationships and a lifetime 
of problematic health, including syphilis and typhoid, were the most obvious man- 
ifestations of this, the other being his dubious distinction of having produced so 
much yet left so much unfinished. For the latter we need look no further than the 
exchange occurring in his Gemini ascendant, the archetypal sign of distraction. 


Whereas Mercury is ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, thus making it the control planet 
for this exchange. Saturn’s placement in the 1st house speaks to both his fame and 
the great struggles of his life. 


Exchange of 1st and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Ascendant lord be situated in the 10th house, the native will be 
endowed with paternal happiness, will enjoy royal favor, fame among men, 
and will undoubtedly have self-earned wealth. (BPHS 26:10) 


* Should the 10th lord be situated in the Ascendant, the native will be learned, 
famous, be a poet, will incur diseases in childhood, be happy later on, and his 
wealth will increase day by day. (BPHS 26:109) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) wherein the 
lords are in a mutual 4/10 relationship from kendra houses, thus suggesting a bias 
for visible activity and accomplishment, particularly in the career, and possibly 
leading to some degree of fame (or notoriety). 


The native is of an ambitious nature and material disposition, desiring power, au- 
thority, recognition and the accumulation of possessions. He achieves an elevated 
status and becomes known within his social circle for his wealth and/or his indepen- 
dent profession. He is a self-made man, and enjoys plenty of gains and vehicles. 


With a bias for self-employment or entrepreneurial ventures, he is capable of man- 
aging projects with little or no supervision. He is natural management material and, 
whether through simple desire for power or genuine organizational skills, he is ca- 

pable of exercising leadership and directing control of large enterprises. 


His career involves the physical body or personality in some active way, eg, athlete, 
model, performer, actor, politician, motivational speaker. He is also interested in 
aviation, meteorology and astronomy. 


He may enjoy a special relationship with the mother of his partner. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Steve Allen, comedian; Donald Byrd, musician; Francois Duvalier, dictator; José 
Feliciano, blind musician; Naomi Judd, singer; Ethel Kennedy, political wife; René 
Jules Lalique, designer; Joan McEvers, astrologer; Marvin Mitchelson, attorney; Don 
Schollander, Olympic swimmer; David Souter, Supreme Court jurist; Jess Stearn, oc- 
cult writer. 


Case study 


Ethel Kennedy, the archetype and living icon of an American matriarchy, was born 
into wealth as the daughter of a coal magnate whose house was always filled with 
priests and nuns. Tragedy has been at her elbow throughout her life. Both her al- 
coholic parents and a brother died in separate plane crashes. Her husband Bobby 


was assassinated during his Presidential bid campaign. Two of her 11 children died 
accidentally. Both brothers-in-law suffered tragedy — President John F. Kennedy was 
assassinated, and Senator Edward Kennedy was implicated in the Chappaquiddick 
scandal. 


In addition, dozens of her extended family were implicated in mysterious and/ 

or fatal circumstances - car accidents, plane crashes, house fires, drug overdoses, 
skiing mishaps, rapes, accidental shootings, and murders. A devout Catholic whose 
faith has been tested countless times over the decades, she continues to be a faith- 
ful church-goer to this day. Perhaps in penance for a karmic legacy that hovers like 
a black cloud over the Kennedys, she has been devoted throughout her active life 
to public service, ranging from domestic housing issues to international medical 
assistance. 


Mars in Aquarius 1st exchanges with Saturn in Scorpio 10th. This is an exchange of 
natural malefics, with Mars the enemy of Saturn. Mars gains strength via dig bala 
through the exchange, but at the cost of becoming tainted by the Kala Sarpa con- 
figuration in the 4th/10th axis. Saturn has strength via its retrogression, and both 
malefics aspect the 7th house. Along with Rahu and Ketu, they dominate the angles 
and thus the karmic themes of this life. 


The sheer number and magnitude of tragedies by which her life has been marked is 
the signature of a Kala Sarpa dosha amplified by the exchange of two malefics. It's 
interesting to note that, when her husband Bobby was assassinated, she was run- 
ning the dasa-bhukti of Mars-Rahu, while transiting Mars opposed natal Saturn to 
the exact degree. 


Mars is ordinary while Saturn is retrograde and aspected by a strong benefic, thus 


granting it the role of control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 10th is 
symptomatic of private tragedies lived large in the public eye. 


Exchange of 1st and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the Ascendant lord has been placed in the 11th house, the native will 
always have gains, good qualities, fame and many wives. (BPHS 26:11) 


* If the 11th lord is placed in the Ascendant, the native will be of Sattwika 
nature, be rich, happy, even-sighted, a poet, eloquent in speech, and be always 
endowed with gains. (BPHS 26:121) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dhana Yoga) wherein the lords are in a mu- 
tual 3/11 relationship. Because of this configuration, with one of the participants 
being an upachaya house lord, we expect results to be commensurate with personal 
desire and effort, improving over time. 


The native is virtuous, scholarly, patient and persevering. He has a strong constitu- 
tion and works hard, such that he enjoys a long and productive life. He achieves his 
hopes and desires, especially in the matter of wealth, which he earns through fair 
means, 


He has a lot of friends, including those of the opposite sex, with whom he forms 
close relationships. His social circle includes people from business, political and 
artistic backgrounds. Elder siblings will be near and dear to him, and treated as best 
friends. Siblings will undertake frequent short journeys. 


He is eloquent with words, and could be a writer. He is also adept at handling 
money. Professionally, he could be a financial advisor, an investment fund man- 
ager, a group facilitator, a team-builder, a political bagman, or fundraiser for social 
causes. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Queen Beatrix, Dutch royalty; Tony Blair, politician; Bill Blass, designer; Charles 
Bukowski, writer; M.C. Escher, artist; Martha Graham, dancer; Bobby Knight, basket- 
ball coach; Patrick McGoohan, actor; Lord Louis Mountbatten, British royalty; Mort 
Sahl, entertainer; Ted Turner, entrepreneur; Walt Whitman, poet; Esther Williams, 
actress/swimmer. 


Case study 


Charles Bukowski, béte noire of American fiction, is best known via the autobio- 
graphical portrayal of his lifestyle in the movie Barfly. A notorious drinker and 
womanizer, Bukowski was a prolific poet, short story writer and novelist whose 
low-life subjects - the drunken, destitute and debauched denizens of the race 
track, backstreet bars and flophouses of Los Angeles - assured that his work would 
never be embraced by the mainstream. Although saddled for years with menial 
jobs, Bukowski ultimately produced over 60 books. Largely ignored in America, he 


enjoyed enormous appeal in Europe, where both Jean-Paul Sartre and Jean Genet 
called him “America’s greatest poet”. 


In his youth he suffered from violent beatings from his alcoholic father, and acne so 
severe that his boils had to be surgically drilled before draining. He married twice 
and lived with dozens of other women. Decades of heavy drinking rewarded him 
with a bleeding ulcer that hospitalized and almost killed him. He admired strength 
and endurance, and largely rejected the goals that most people strive after. Few 
other writers of the 20th century appeared so willing to shed authorial dignity in 
the pursuit of grainy truths. 


The Moon in 1st house Virgo exchanges with Mercury in 11th house Cancer. In this 
chart, Mercury is a benefic, but the Moon is so compromised that it fails to retain 
any positive qualities, being dark, sandhi (on the very cusp of a sign) and massively 
hemmed by four malefics. Post-exchange, Mercury gains dig bala while the Moon 
becomes swa. Aside from the malignant Papa Kartari Yoga on the ascendant, nei- 
ther of the two exchange planets is involved in any other yoga. 


Only the Moon is in a kendra, which explains in part his relative obscurity in main- 
stream publishing. And reflective perhaps of the four planets in his 12th house (of 
foreign matters), Bukowski’s reputation was much greater overseas than at home, 
although he allegedly received a flood of fan mail from the insane and incarcerated 
in America. 


Mercury does far better in the exchange than does the Moon. Whereas the Moon 
remains dark (within three tithis of the Sun) no matter whether pre- or post-ex- 
change, Mercury goes from ordinary to twice-dignified. Given this dynamic, we can 
understand that within one man there could coexist both a consummate writer and 
a dissolute rogue. 


In light of Mercury’s relative dominance, this confirms it as the control planet in this 
exchange. Its placement in the 11th house speaks to his ultimate success as a writer. 


Exchange of 1st and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the Ascendant lord being placed in the 12th house, the native 
will be bereft of bodily pleasures. If the 12th house is devoid of the conjunc- 
tion or aspect of a benefic planet, he will fruitlessly spend his wealth and be 
given to much anger. (BPHS 26:12) 


* If the 12th lord is situated in the Ascendant, the native will be a spendthrift, 
be weak in constitution, will suffer from phlegmatic disorders, and be devoid 
of wealth and learning. (BPHS 26:133) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relation- 
ship. Since this exchange involves a trik lord, we get the sense of a life touched by 
themes of sexuality, spirituality, foreign exposure and loss, thus walking a fine line 
between self-sacrifice and self-undoing. 


Indeed, the native is something of a lost soul in search of an identity: seemingly 
devoid of rational intelligence or foresight, lost in dreams or fantasies, subject to 
errant desires. Shunned by others, and perhaps even an object of self-hatred, he can 
become his own worst enemy. 


A pleasure seeker, his health suffers through exhaustion, eg, sexual indulgence, 
lack of sleep, and jet-lag. He spends money on pleasurable indulgences, which may 
prove to be his undoing. Although he attempts to conceal his loose morals in his 
sexual life, he is ultimately revealed, to his potential shame. He travels to foreign 
countries in pursuit of happiness, but may leave empty-handed to wander aim- 
lessly. He seeks moksha in all the wrong places, and can be left with a feeling of 
emptiness, losing himself in the process. 


He cares little about money, isn’t greedy or avaricious, and spends freely or gives 
to charities. He is drawn unconsciously to involvement with ashrams, hospitals, or 
prisons. Hindsight (left eye association) is strong, so he is naturally introspective 
and contemplative. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Chuck Berry, musician; Richard Boone, actor; Tycho Brahe, astronomer; Stephen 
Crane, writer; Xavier Cugat, musician; Divine, transvestite/actress; King Edward 
Vil, British royalty; Zelda Fitzgerald, flapper; Michel Foucault, philosopher; Alberto 
Fujimori, politician; Giuseppe Garibaldi, militarist; Garrison Keillor, broadcaster/ 
author; Rich Little, impersonator; Madonna, singer; Mark McGwire, baseball player; 
Jean-Luc Ponty, musician; John Sayles, film-maker; Angel Thompson, astrologer; 
Jon Voight, actor; Jack Welch, corporate executive. 


Case study 
Madonna (Ciccone), popstar extraordinaire, has made a name for herself largely 


through the clever exhibitionism of her sexuality, whether through provocative 
stage costumes or nude photos of herself in books and magazines. Ironically, while 
succeeding brilliantly in the music industry, she has thus far failed miserably in 
movies. Religious and spiritual issues intermixed with sexuality have been constant 
themes in her life. Her devoutly-Catholic family was shattered when her mother 
died of cancer when Madonna was only six. 


After a number of years during which she was agoraphobic and fearful of her own 
mortality, she burst out of her shell in high school to excel in the perennially pop- 
ular curriculum of sex and drugs and rock'n'roll. Two marriages and one child later, 
she continues to show a marked interest in spiritual matters, studying Kabbalah 
and cultivating the persona of a spiritual seeker. To avoid the fans and paparazzi, 
Madonna has her homes hermetically sealed with guards, hidden cameras and an 
electric-eye gate, thus living in a hybrid ashram/prison. 


Su a0 

MeR i> Ve, 07.15 
Ve ons 
Su 22 


AS uss 
Mo isis 
MeR v2» 
AS 13s 
Mo iss 


The Moon in 1st house Leo exchanges with the Sun in 12th house Cancer. Both 
planets are sattvik, which reinforces the spirituality themes of the 12th house ex- 
change. However, the Moon is quite dark (barely more than a tithi past the new 
moon) and the Sun is gandanta (on the cusp of both a sign and a nakshatra), while 
both luminaries are aspected by strong malefics, a retrograde Saturn and a swa 
Mars. Overall, the effect is to invoke more of the “negative” 12th house aspects, ie, 
sexuality, physical and psychological loss, and various forms of exile, including res- 
idency abroad. 


On the more positive side, the Moon in the lagna associates with a dig bala Mercury, 
giving her street smarts, media savvy and business acumen, since both planets are 
members of the vaishya caste, or merchant class. For its part, the Sun’s association 
with Venus in the 12th generates a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga of 1st and 10th 
house lords, supporting the notion of a career that utilizes sexuality or spirituality. 


Because the Sun is gandanta and the Moon is dark, neither is fit to assume the role 


of control planet. In this yoga, their coequal exchange epitomizes the themes of 
Self-realization versus surrender. 


Exchanges involving the 2nd house lord 


Exchange of 2nd and 3rd lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 2nd lord is situated in the 3rd house, the native will be a man of valor, 
be wise, virtuous, lustful and miserly. He will have these effects when the 2nd 
lord is related to a benefic; if related to a malefic, the native will be heterodox. 
(BPHS 26:15) 


* If the 3rd lord happens to fall in the 2nd house, the native will be corpulent, 
devoid of valor, less disposed to take initiative, unhappy, and will have eyes on 
others’ wives and others’ wealth. (BPHS 26:26) 


This is a Khala Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relation- 
ship. Since it involves the lord of the 3rd, which is both a mild dusthana and an 
upachaya house, we expect a fluctuating state of difficulty, with some gradual im- 
provement, in family and money matters. 


The native lacks courage or experiences frustration of his artistic ambitions, and 
becomes very materialistic instead. He makes money through the application of 
special skills or knowledge, and achieves some status in government or industry. He 
may use his expertise or information to unfair advantage, eg, through insider trad- 
ing, selling tainted goods, etc. 


Family life is somewhat troubled, and his relationship with siblings suffers ups 

and downs, including estrangement and betrayal. Siblings may be very money-ori- 
ented, and yet have difficulties with their finances. Younger siblings suffer losses or 
changes to their circumstances. 


He lacks principles in matters pertaining to wealth, family, knowledge, and sexual 
relations. For example, he doesn’t deal fairly with family members in general. He is 
unscrupulous in financial transactions, and profits unfairly from other people. 


Satisfying his personal desires is more important than adhering to spiritual prin- 
ciples. For example, he might ignore marriage vows in order to satisfy a desire for 
a sexual relationship with someone else. The tendency to bend the law becomes 
especially prevalent when he experiences frustration of his desires and then in des- 
peration seeks to break out of his impasse. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Lauren Bacall, actress; Russell Banks, writer; Shirley Conran, writer; Phyllis Diller, 
comedienne; Errol Flynn, actor; Germaine Greer, writer; Peter Jennings, news an- 
chor; Charles Lindbergh, aviator; Baba Muktananda, spiritual leader; Tim Robbins, 
actor; Albert Schweitzer, humanitarian; Suzanne Somers, actress; Alexis de Toc- 
queville, political scientist; Sarah Vaughn, jazz singer; Oscar Wilde, writer; Steve 


Winwood, musician; Billy Mitchell, militarist. 


Case study 


Errol Flynn, the swashbuckling actor of adventure films, had a flamboyant private 
life indulging his lifelong passions for drinking, fighting and sex on boats. A ram- 
bunctious child with an impressive vocabulary, the “Tasmanian Devil” was thrown 
out of every school he attended. His father was a renowned zoologist who brought 
the first platypus to England, and Flynn grew up with a great love of the sea, spend- 
ing his time between movies sailing around the world. Quoted as saying he liked his 
whiskey old and his women young, his love life was notorious — married three times, 
twice charged with rape, and source of the sexual catch-phrase “In like Flynn”. 


A legendary drinker, he eventually worked his way up to narcotics. Aside from 
acting, via which he burst into public view like a meteor and then burned out as 
quickly seven years later, his other passion was writing. He'd been a young corre- 
spondent for an Australian newspaper, and later published two novels and an auto- 
biography. Despite his virile image, he was disqualified from WW2 military service 
because of a weak heart, from which he died at age 50 in the arms of his 17-year- 
old girlfriend. 


Ra as 


Mercury in 2nd house Taurus exchanges with Venus in 3rd house Gemini. The two 
are mutual friends, and in addition, both rajasik grahas. Right away, we get a sense 
of desire and activity, stimulated and supported by partners-in-crime, so to speak. 
Retrograde Mercury is strong but heavily afflicted by Mars, Saturn and the Rahu- 
Ketu axis. Venus as lord of both the 2nd and the 7th is a full maraka and, although 
free of combustion, is associated with a dark Moon in Gemini, symptomatic perhaps 
of Flynn’s weakness for women in general and girls in particular. 


On the more positive side, Venus associates with the Sun to create two other yogas 
- a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga via their lordships of the 5th and 7th, and a Dhana 
Yoga via the 2nd and 5th. With both luminaries and Venus in the 3rd house - a ka- 
masthana (houses 3, 7 and 11 are inclined toward fulfillment of desires) — we see his 
fondness for the literary arts, as well as the promise and pitfalls of a life filled with 


adventures of all kinds. 

Although Mercury is retrograde, it is heavily afflicted. Meanwhile, Venus is ordinary, 
associated with both luminaries, and forms multiple yogas. Thus, Venus becomes 
the control planet in this exchange. Its placement in the 3rd house made the pursuit 
of pleasure a life theme. 


Exchange of 2nd and 4th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 2nd lord occupies the 4th house, the native is endowed with all 
kinds of wealth. If he is in conjunction with Jupiter or in his exaltation sign, 
the native will be equal to a king. (BPHS 26:16) 


* Should the 4th lord occupy the 2nd house, the native will enjoy pleasures, be 
blessed with all kinds of wealth, family life and honor, and be adventurous. He 
will be cunning and deceptive in disposition. (BPHS 26:38) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 3/11 relationship. 
With this configuration, we expect a certain flow or facilitation of matters related to 
family, money, property, vehicles and education. 


The native is devoted to acquiring knowledge, will receive one or more degrees, and 
may be involved in the fields of education or psychology. Academically inclined, he 
is a visual learner, and learns best by seeing things. 


He is close to his mother and enjoys financial benefits through her. She in turn en- 
joys gains through her own efforts or good fortune. His happiness is strongly linked 
to family, whether immediate or extended. In lieu of strong family attachments, 

he belongs to a community, or sangha, for the emotional or psychological comfort 
such a group provides. 


His family is a source of wealth, particularly through property. He acquires prop- 
erties and vehicles, and may be involved in businesses related to the same. He is 
attracted to occupations in real estate, farming, mining, house construction, hotel 
management, car manufacturing or sales. He may invest in luxury items such as an- 
tique furniture, cars, paintings, etc. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Anthony Armstrong-Jones, British royalty in-law; Alexander Graham Bell, inventor; 
Johannes Brahms, composer; Merle Haggard, musician; Anthony Hopkins, actor; 
Robbie Krieger, musician; Mary McFadden, designer; Julia Roberts, actress; George 
C. Scott, actor; Simone Simon, actress; Barbra Streisand, entertainer; Louis Vuitton, 
designer; Colleen McCullough, writer; Evelyn Waugh, writer. 


Case study 

Alexander Graham Bell, inventor of the telephone, was born into a family fascinated 
with communication. His grandfather was an eminent elocutionist, and his father 
was a speech pathologist who developed the first international phonetic alphabet. 


His mother, learning piano despite her deafness, inspired Bell's life-long desire to 
help the deaf and the mute. As a teenager, he constructed a “speaking machine” 
with a mouth, an articulated tongue and bellow lungs that could make human 
sounds. By age 16 he was teaching music and elocution at a boys’ school, and fur- 
thering his father’s work in “visible speech” techniques. This eventually brought 
him to the Boston School for Deaf Mutes, where he met first his future wife and 
later his famous protégée Helen Keller. 


Although his profound scientific curiosity resulted in his inventing the telephone, 
for which he became rich and famous, he also developed technologies anticipating 
fiber-optics communications, tape and CD recordings, and the iron lung. In his later 
years, he developed vehicle prototypes, including giant tetrahedral kites, an air- 
plane, and a hydrofoil that set a world speed record that stood for 44 years. 


Venus in 2nd house Pisces exchanges with Jupiter in 4th house Taurus. Both are 
benefics. Venus commences with exaltation and, after exchange, becomes swa and 
gains dig bala. Jupiter goes from ordinary status to swa. Although Mercury and Ketu 
occupy the 2nd house, neither of the exchange planets are close enough in degree 
to become tainted by either the 8th lord or the Rahu-Ketu axis. 


Pre-exchange, Venus and Mercury in the 2nd house form a Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yoga (as lords of 4th and 5th) as well as a Raja Yoga (as lords of 5th and 9th). Al- 
though it can’t create Lakshmi Yoga all on its own, exalted Venus as lord of the 9th, 
and karaka of wealth and vehicles, does sit in a money house. Thus, the 2nd house 
themes of speech, hearing, and wealth, as well as 4th house vehicles, were all acti- 
vated by the presence of this strong Parivartana Yoga. 

While Jupiter is ordinary, Venus is exalted, thus making it the control planet for 
this exchange. Its placement in the 2nd house evokes the theme of speech, to which 
cause much of Bell's inventive genius was applied. 


Exchange of 2nd and 5th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 2nd lord is situated in the 5th house, the native will be wealthy. His 
son will also be intent on earning wealth. (BPHS 26:17) 


* If the 5th lord occupies the 2nd house, the native will have the blessing of 
having many sons and wealth. He will be supporter of his family, honorable, 
be attached to his wife, and be famous in the world. (BPHS 26:50) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dhana Yoga) wherein the lords are ina 
mutual 4/10 relationship. The native is naturally disposed towards intellectual pur- 
suits, and is both an avid student and a capable teacher. 


He has literary skills, a good vocabulary, and a good speaking or singing voice. 
Therefore, he could make a good orator, writer or politician. Furthermore, a willing- 
ness to lend dramatic effect to whatever he does could make this person a popular 
entertainer. 


He may also be spiritually inclined, with an interest in studying and meditating 
upon sacred works, and the ability to memorize and recite long passages of scrip- 
tures. He could also be involved in learning or teaching mantra and meditation 
techniques. 


The native comes from a large family, to which he is attached. The family is fortu- 
nate in money matters, values education, and is intellectually inclined. The native 
is thoughtful about money, and generally shrewd in investments. The native's chil- 
dren are dedicated students, earn handsome salaries, and establish themselves with 
good professions and reputations. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Marshall Appelwhite, cult leader; André Breton, surrealist; Catherine the Great, 
empress; Wes Craven, director; A.J. Cronin, writer; Indira Gandhi, politician; Harper 
Lee, writer; Bernard Montgomery, militarist; Robert Ripley, illustrator; Willy Shoe- 
maker, jockey; Bruce Willis, actor; Christian Wirth, Nazi. 


Case study 


Catherine the Great, who was born a German princess but married into Russian 
royalty, transformed her nation from a backwater country into a European power. 
Beautiful, intelligent and ambitious, she quickly learned Russian, joined the Ortho- 
dox Church and educated herself via extensive reading. Her husband Peter III was an 
ugly man and incompetent ruler, eventually deposed and executed by Catherine's 
political allies. Although she earned a reputation for promiscuity via multiple love 
affairs with her officers and heads of state, her real achievement was reform. She 


read everything from Plato to Voltaire, and corresponded with many leading Euro- 
pean intellectuals of the day. 

Once in power, she transformed her adopted country in every way possible - intro- 
ducing new agricultural techniques in farming regions, building roads and bridges, 
creating schools of medicine and mining, facilitating factory start-ups, importing 
British science and technology, abolishing export duties, conducting mapping and 
census, building hospitals and schools, amassing art collections and promoting 
Russian culture. The only ambition she failed to realize in her 34-year reign was the 
abolition of serfdom, a political move that might have destabilized the country that 
she’d worked so hard to change. 


Jupiter in 5th house Gemini exchanges with debilitated Mercury in 2nd house 
Pisces. These two jiva tattva planets are strongly associated with matters of the 
intellect. In addition to its debilitation, Mercury is also hemmed by three power- 
ful malefics — swa Saturn on one side, and swa Mars and uchcha Sun on the other. 
Jupiter, on the other hand, is associated with the Moon to form a Kesari Yoga, and 
with Venus to form a pair of Dhana Yogas. In fact, the exchange of 2nd lord Jupiter 
with 5th lord Mercury is itself a Dhana Yoga. Jupiter’s position in the Sth also quali- 
fies it as the foundation of a Kalanidhi Yoga, because it is in the sign of Mercury and 
in association with Venus. 


Cultured (2nd), intelligent, studious (2nd) and charming, Catherine was also ambi- 
tious, cruel, egotistical and domineering. A passionate woman, she had a series of at 
least 22 young lovers. By age 67, she had lost all her teeth (2nd) and was plagued by 
debilitating varicose veins. 


Since Mercury is debilitated while Jupiter is merely ordinary, it has the relative 
strength to function as control planet for this exchange. Jupiter’s placement in the 
5th house remains the signature of Catherine’s intelligence and her intellectual ref- 
ormation of Russia. 


Exchange of 2nd and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 2nd lord occupy the 6th house and be in conjunction with a 
benefic, the native will gain wealth through his enemies; if with a malefic, the 
native will have loss through his enemies and be weak-thighed. (BPHS 26:18) 


* In case the 6th lord has fallen in the 2nd house, the native will be adven- 
turous, illustrious in his family, and he will live in alien countries or foreign 
lands, be happy, be a good speaker, and be always interested in his own work. 
(BPHS 26:62) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 5/9 relationship 
from artha houses. Although the 6th is a trikasthana, it is also an upachaya house, 
wherein the situation is amenable to improvement over time. 


The native experiences money problems of one kind or another through poor saving 
habits, theft, unpaid loans, damaged goods, lawsuits, lost items, and/or expensive 
health care. Health concerns include bad teeth, bad breath, poor vision, allergies, 
food poisoning, bad diet, substance abuse and thyroid problems. 


Similarly, the native may have problems with learning, retaining or expressing 
ideas, eg, poor study habits or memory, lack of imagination, foul language, speech 
impediment, poor vocabulary, or lack of oratorical skills. 


The native’s spouse will have poor health. (The 7th is the spouse, so if we rotate the 
chart to adopt its perspective, the 2nd is the 8th from the spouse, and the 6th is 
the 12th from the spouse; therefore, both are trik lords from the perspective of the 
spouse.) Maternal uncles are likely to undertake long journeys. 

He gains employment through the service trades, especially those related to health, 
animals, the workplace, and the environment. Someone in the family may also be 
employed in health care, particularly veterinary science. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, basketball star; Prince Albert, British royalty; Carol Burnett, 
comedienne; Ram Dass, spiritual author; Situ Rimpoche, spiritual leader; Dean 
Stockwell, actor; Gene Tunney, boxer; Mike Wallace, TV personality. 


Case study 

Ram Dass, born as Richard Alpert, studied psychology with a specialization in 
human motivation and personality development. He served on the faculties at 
Stanford, the University of California, and Harvard University. While at Harvard, his 


explorations of human consciousness led him to collaborate with Timothy Leary, 
Aldous Huxley and Allen Ginsberg, in using LSD. Because of this controversial re- 
search, he was subsequently fired from Harvard. 

After a trip to India during which he met his guru, he was renamed Ram Dass, 
“Servant of God”, and changed his life direction to pursue a wide range of spiritual 
practices, becoming involved in many humanitarian projects, including agricultural 
reform and treatment of blindness in third world countries. He has written several 
books, the most notable of which was the bestseller Be Here Now, a classic spiritual 
guide. In 1997, he suffered a left-brain hemorrhage that paralyzed much of the 
right side of his body, but he continues to make public appearances. 


Debilitated Mars in 2nd house Cancer exchanges with debilitated Moon in 6th house 
Scorpio. Although the exchange between these two house lords gives an impetus 
towards the pursuit of artha, or security, as a life goal, it was not his own security 
but that of the disenfranchised that seemed to motivate his humanitarian actions. 
Indeed, since both planets are in water signs, we could further rationalize that the 
spiritual resolution of this double-debilitation required some form of bhakti yoga. 


Although he gained fame and notoriety for his use, or substance abuse (2nd house) 
of psychedelics, Ram Dass did go on to author at least three books on spirituality. 
Interestingly enough for someone with a 6th house exchange, his adopted name 
Ram Dass means “servant to Lord Ram.” He has also worked as an activist for Seva 
Foundation, whose causes include environmental (6th house) issues, and fighting 
blindness (2nd house) in third world countries. 

With neither planet assuming clear control over the exchange, the themes of au- 
thorship and service remain coequals as per the 2nd/6th-house associations of this 
yoga. 


Exchange of 2nd and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 2nd lord falling in the 7th house, the native will be apt to 
traverse another's wife and be a physician. If the 2nd lord in the 7th house is 
in conjunction with or is aspected by a malefic, his wife will be a harlot. (BPHS 
26:19) 


* If the 7th lord is placed in the 2nd house, the native will have many wives, 
will gain wealth through his wife and will be of procrastinating nature. (BPHS 
26:74) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship 
from maraka houses. For this combination, we generally expect mixed reviews 
within a marital context, especially wherein the partners do not see “eye-to-eye” or 
one of then “has eyes for another". 


The native gains through marriage, and enjoys a good family life, but has difficulty 
maintaining a monogamous relationship. He experiences strong attractions to 
members of the opposite sex, such that personal relationships tend to be sexually- 
motivated. Relationship with in-laws may thus be adversely affected. 


His spouse is a dominant personality and may be equally suspect in terms of 
needing to explore relationships outside the marriage. His spouse suffers mentally, 
emotionally or physically, possibly as a consequence of a turbulent marital life, and 
may experience premature illness or death. 


Business and financial relationships are carried out at a distance, via the agency of 
foreign partners, or in the form of travel to foreign countries. Whatever money he 
earns is shared with his partner. 


Second marriages would be favored during the conjoined periods of the two house 
lords in exchange. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Dino de Laurentis, producer; Hans Eysenck, psychologist/astrologer; Gennifer Flow- 
ers, political mistress; Daryl Hannah, actress; Jean Harlow, actress; Andy Kaufman, 
actor; Jack Kerouac, writer; Oliver North, patriot; Walter Schirra, astronaut; Alicia 
Silverstone, actress. 


Case study 


Jack Kerouac, a “solitary crazy Catholic mystic", was a founding member of the 
“Beat Generation”, a term he coined. His older brother died at age nine, and his 
father died an alcoholic. Although Kerouac won a football scholarship to Columbia, 
he dropped out and hit the road, crisscrossing the continent several times, writing 
about his experiences and picking up bad habits along the way, mainly heavy drink- 


ing and Benzedrine use. He wrote his famous novel, On the Road, in three coffee-fu- 
eled weeks, and another novel, The Subterraneans, in a Benzedrine-powered rush of 
just three days. Along with fellow beatniks Allen Ginsberg and William Burroughs, 
he forged new literary territory. 


Success came late, and he had trouble dealing with both his new-found fame and 
the critics who disliked a prose style that violated so many rules of syntax and 
grammar. Although repeatedly drawn into relationships, none lasted long, and his 
two marriages ended in divorce. In later years, he became a recluse, living with his 
mother and playing solitary card games he'd invented to simulate baseball and 
football games. He died of cirrhosis of the liver at age 47, leaving an estate of less 
than $100. 


AS 227 
Mo x56 


SaR 1225 
Ra 1708 
JuR 2355 


Saturn in 2nd house Virgo exchanges with Mercury in 7th house Aquarius, both 
maraka houses. Saturn forms a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga with Jupiter in the 
2nd, although it is afflicted by the Rahu-Ketu axis. Mercury is associated with the 
Sun, forming a Budhaditya Yoga and two Dhana Yogas. 

Post-exchange, Saturn joins the Sun in the 7th to form a lusty combination, while 
Mercury moves to Virgo where it forms a complex with the equally mutable Piscean 
Venus at the opposite end of the Rahu-Ketu axis. Both Mercury and Saturn are con- 
sidered to be neuter or sex-less planets (Mercury too “young” and Saturn too “old”), 
which may reflect on Kerouac’s sexual ambivalence. Themes of the 2nd and 7th 
houses played out in authorship, substance abuse, troubled family life, wandering 
travel and dysfunctional relationships. 

Best known for his book, The Dharma Bums, Kerouac was prolific and authored 21 
books in all. With the axis of planets through his 2nd/8th houses, he suffered from 
both alcoholism and methedrine abuse. He was discharged from the merchant ma- 
rine for psychiatric reasons, and was briefly jailed in connection with a murder. Bi- 
sexual, he married three times, carried a torch for fellow Beatnik Neal Cassady, and 
meticulously kept an archive of every sexual experience he had with a woman. 
While Mercury is ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, thus making it the control planet 
for this exchange. Its mixed association with Rahu and a bright Jupiter in the 2nd 


house lent fuel to both his prolific writing and substance abuse. 


Exchange of 2nd and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 2nd lord happen to be placed in the 8th house, the native is en- 
dowed with abundant land wealth, but he will have little marital felicity and 
be bereft of happiness through elder brother. (BPHS 26:20) 


* If the 8th lord is placed in the 2nd house, the native will be devoid of physical 
vigor, will possess little wealth, and will not regain lost wealth. (BPHS 26:86) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 7/7 relationship. 
This sambandha of mutual aspect also serves to strengthen (and aggravate) the sig- 
nifications of the exchange. 


Because the respective lords of one’s own money versus another’s money are being 
exchanged, the notion of currency or financial exchange is one interpretation. This 
could manifest in a constructive manner, eg, via a banker or investment broker who 
manages other people’s money or, less constructively, as a thief or swindler. 


In a similar vein, we could also interpret the exchange in light of education or 
knowledge. Acquired knowledge may be specialized, and transmitted via an oral 
tradition in such areas as mysticism, the occult, or the alternative healing arts. 
For example, this could appear in the chart of a scholar of antiquities, a linguist, 
an occultist, or a practitioner of Jyotish, ayurveda, shiatsu or Traditional Chinese 
Medicine. 


The native may have unexpected reversals, ie, things going from good to bad, or 
vice versa, in matters affecting both the oral cavity and the vision. For example, lin- 
guistic skills versus speech impediments, oratorical abilities versus foul language, 
balanced diet versus substance abuse, clear versus blurry vision. 


Financial affairs may also go through ups and downs - there could be inheritances 
and gains from insurance, but also gambling, irrecoverable business losses, de- 
mands for alimony, and chronic indebtedness. 


By the same token, family life may exhibit a cycle of peaks and troughs, including 
financial crises that affect the family fortunes, or highly-charged emotional situa- 
tions that challenge family values. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Charles Addams, cartoonist; Sam Cooke, performer; Billy Corgan, musician; Sir 
Arthur Conan Doyle, writer; Robert Duvall, actor; Peter Gabriel, musician; Franz 
Joseph Haydn, composer; Manik Chand Jain, astrologer; Jimmy Page, musician; 
George Lincoln Rockwell, American Nazi; Linda Ronstadt, singer; Cheryl Tiegs, 
model. 


Case study 


Jimmy Page, one of the greatest rock guitarists of all time, originally wanted to be a 
biological researcher but left school at age 16 to pursue music. In 1968 he founded 
Led Zeppelin, which became one of the biggest rock bands in the world, while de- 
veloping a reputation for excess and debauchery: trashed hotel rooms, kinky sex 
and heavy use of drugs and alcohol. For several years, Page was a regular heroin 
user. 


Fascinated with the occult, Page owned an occult bookstore and purchased the 
former rural retreat of Aleister Crowley (notorious occultist and designer of the 
Thoth tarot deck) as one of his homes. His arcane interests were reflected via as- 
trological symbols in the band’s album covers and stage costumes. One biographer 
speculated Page had made a pact with the Devil to ensure Led Zep’s success, and 
one interpretation of “Stairway to Heaven” claimed it contained satanic reverse- 
audio messages. An avid collector, Page owns roughly 1500 guitars. 


In recent years he’s been involved in various charity concerts and charity work, par- 
ticularly the Action for Brazil’s Children Trust, for which he was awarded the Order 
of the British Empire in 2005. 


Venus in 2nd house Scorpio exchanges with Mars in 8th house Taurus. Mars retro- 
grade is strong and joins forces with an equally strong retrograde Saturn in the 8th 
to form both a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga and a Dhana Yoga. Because lagnesh 
Venus is in mutual aspect with both Mars and Saturn, it further generates another 
four yogas — a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga and a Dhana Yoga with Mars, and two 
Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas with Saturn. 


The negative effect of two powerful malefics on this yoga skewed Page into dark 
territory - his heroin addiction, his fascination with the occult, and some unsub- 
stantiated rumors about sex with juvenile girls. On the plus side, however, he was 
well-educated and soft-spoken, and created a massive transfer of wealth from pop 
fans into the bank accounts of Led Zeppelin. Equally positive, he turned his own sig- 
nificant wealth back into several charities. 


Interestingly enough, Page is one of the relatively few people (3% of the popula- 
tion) who have two Parivartana Yogas, the second being an exchange between the 


3rd and 11th lords. Although discussed in greater detail in the relevant section, 
this yoga is indicative of financial or social (11th house) success through the arts or 
sports (3rd house), a feat that Page achieved via his mastery of the guitar. 

While Venus is ordinary, Mars is retrograde, thus making it the control planet for 


this exchange. Its placement in the 8th house simply recalls Page's fascination with 
the occult in his younger years, followed by his charity work in his mature years. 


Exchange of 2nd and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 2nd lord be placed in the 9th house, the native will be wealthy, 
diligent and skillful. He remains sickly in childhood but happy in the remain- 
ing years of life. He visits shrines and observes religious rites, etc. (BPHS 
26:21) 


* Should the Sth lord be situated in the 2nd house, the native will be learned, 
popular, wealthy, lustful, and be blessed with happiness through sons and 
wife. (BPHS 26:98) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dhana Yoga) wherein the lords are in a mu- 
tual 6/8 relationship. The native is born with a silver spoon in his mouth, or may be 
considered “silver-tongued”. His family is blessed with good education and wealth. 
He receives money from foreign sources and conveyances. 


His father is affiliated with universities, courts of law or the government. Because 
the exchanging lords are in a 6/8 relationship, his father may be afflicted with some 
common ailment or disease, or may experience a fluctuating state of employment. 


The native tends to speak the truth, or dispenses wisdom, such as would a professor, 
author, orator or counselor. (Vak shuddhi, vak siddhi.) He often manifests other 
good qualities associated with the mouth, eg, eloquent speech, good vocabulary, 
fine teeth, good singing voice, and/or good diet. 


He travels in pursuit of his education, favoring subjects such as finance, mathemat- 
ics, languages and education. He receives formal instruction from a teacher or guru 
who is a good orator and an expert in the shastras or comparable classical works. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Giulio Andreotti, politician; Drew Barrymore, actress; John Belushi, comedian; Ce- 
line Dion, singer; Hans Holzer, occult writer; Edna St-Vincent Millay, poet; Princess 
Nour Pahlavi, Iranian royalty; William Penn, colonist; Rafael Sabatini, novelist; 
Gilles Villeneuve, race-car driver; Kanye West, musician. 


Case study 


Celine Dion, popstar diva, was born into a highly musical family, the youngest of 14 
children, with a strong attachment to her father. She began performing in her par- 
ents’ piano bar at five years old and by age 17 had emerged as an international tal- 
ent. Her manager, who later became her husband, mortgaged his house to produce 
her first album. Over the years, she racked up one industry award after another and 
broke records for albums sold, winning Oscars for both Beauty and the Beast and 
Titanic soundtracks, the latter album becoming the top-selling soundtrack album 
of all time. In total, Dion has sold over 200 million albums worldwide. In addition, 


she performed under contract at Caesar’s Palace in Las Vegas for a five-year stint re- 
putedly worth over $200 million. 


Asupporter of charities, financially generous with her original family, and devoted 
to her spouse and children, she remains a shining inspiration to every singer with a 
dream. Along the way, there have been a few legal complications, notably a lawsuit 
against the National Enquirer, and another involving her husband's alleged sexual 
harassment of a Vegas employee, both suits successfully dismissed. 


Jupiter in 2nd house Leo exchanges with Sun in 9th house Pisces. The exchange 
also forms a Dhana Yoga. Retrograde Jupiter is powerful, aspected only by benefics 
Mercury and Venus to form a Sushubha Yoga. This plays out in several 2nd house 
themes — her huge family of 13 siblings, her great vocal talent with its five-octave 
range, and her subsequent wealth as a pop diva. 


The exchange with the 9th house invokes foreign income (a hit in France when she 
was only 14), a formative relationship with a musical father (karaka Sun), and a 
father-figure in a husband (Sun with 7th lord Saturn) 26 years her senior. Although 
three malefics in the 9th house threaten court cases, the exchange has also helped 
to resolve them. She successfully sued The National Enquirer $20 million for falsely 
stating she was pregnant with twins. 


With the benefic exchange of 2nd and 9th lords, she’s also been generous with her 
family, buying houses for her parents, giving her siblings large sums of money, and 
employing many among them. The exchange supports 2nd house matters: her diet 
(she neither smokes nor drinks) and languages (having zealously studied Berlitz 
English to prepare for the American pop market). She also owns a chain of restau- 
rants in Quebec, and has her own lines of eye-wear and perfume, all 2nd house 
significations. 

While the Sun is ordinary, Jupiter is retrograde, thus making it the control planet 
for this exchange. Its placement in the 2nd house sums up the major themes of 
Dion’s life - family, voice and the great wealth that sprang from her singing. 


Exchange of 2nd and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 2nd lord is situated in the 10th house, the native will be libidi- 
nous, honorable and learned, will have many wives but will be bereft of filial 
happiness. (BPHS 26:22) 


* if the 10th lord occupies the 2nd house, the native will be wealthy, virtuous, 
honored by the King (or the Government), charitable and endowed with pater- 
nal and other bliss. (BPHS 26:110) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 5/9 relationship 
from artha houses. The native’s family is wealthy, and has a reputation built on 
financial or business success. If one of the planets involved is slow-moving, eg, 
Jupiter or Saturn, it could be old money, but if they are fast, eg, the Moon or Mer- 
cury, it’s more likely to be new money. 


The native gets a practical education that has currency in society. He maintains his 
family wealth, and grows his own capital by earning a good income from profession 
or business. If the planets in exchange are benefics, the earnings are through honest 
means; if malefics, then underhanded. 


He achieves considerable status in his community, and has a voice in their assembly. 
He has a face that is recognizable and/or attractive to the public. He has the oppor- 
tunity to speak in public, or things that he says privately become public. If the plan- 
ets in exchange are benefics, he uses his authority wisely; if malefics, he is corrupt 
and abuses his authority. Similarly, an exchange of benefics suggests spoken truth 
and wisdom, while malefics mean cheap talk and lies. 


This combination favors careers in finance, precious metals, restaurants, public 
speaking, dentistry, cosmetics, nutrition, currency exchange, speech therapy educa- 
tion, or writing. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Sri Meher Baba, spiritual leader; Rick Danko, musician; Benny Hill, comedian; Willie 
Nelson, singer; Nityananda, holy man; Bangalore Rao, astrologer; Brad Steiger, 
occult writer; Julius Streicher, Nazi publisher; Maurice Utrillo, artist; Jules Verne, 
writer; Swami Vivekananda, spiritual leader. 


Case study 


Sri Meher Baba, dubbed “The Awakener’”, the Avatar of Kali Yuga, was initiated 

at age 20 into god-realization by the female saint Hazrat Babajan. After a period 
of intense spiritual activity, he undertook a vow of silence that lasted almost 30 
years. Despite his silence, he served the needs of humanity on a material as well as 
a spiritual level by establishing schools and hospitals, personally caring for lepers, 
the mad and religious ecstatics. Through the medium of gestures and an alphabet 


board, he dictated several books and spiritual messages to his followers. 


He traveled widely in India and Pakistan, and made 13 trips to the West, during 
which he made many notable converts among cultural icons of the day, includ- 

ing Pete Townshend of the Who, and other artists. Throughout the 60s, he spoke 
widely about the dangers of drugs on a physical, psychological and spiritual level. 
Although concerned about the materialism of the age, one of his main teachings 
was that the material and spiritual must go hand in hand, that one cannot stay in a 
spiritual retreat one’s whole life, but that God must be found in the world, through 
service and selfless action. 


Venus in 2nd house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 10th house Libra. The two 
are mutual friends, both retrograde and therefore powerful. For this ascendant, ex- 
alted Saturn is also lagnesh, and its friend Venus is yogakaraka (ruling both trikona 
and kendra). Venus is with one luminary, the Sun, but far enough away to escape 
combustion. Saturn, along with the other luminary the Moon, forms a Dharma 
Karma Adhipati Yoga in the 10th. Post-exchange, Saturn resides in the 2nd house 
(speech) with its enemy, the Sun, but because of its degree position, no matter 
whether Saturn assumes the exact place of Venus or carries its own degree into the 
2nd, Saturn does not become combust after exchange. 


The 2nd house governs what goes in and out of the mouth. As such, it rules food 
and drink, but also voice and its fluency, by which we mean both physical and men- 
tal qualities. Fluent in several languages, Baba spoke out against drugs. He was also 
a poet and multi-instrumentalist with an excellent singing voice. 


The 10th house is a karmasthana, and its exchange with the 2nd encouraged Baba’s 
fasting and silence. In the process, he began his practice of demanding strict disci- 
pline and obedience from his disciples. Do as I say, and do as I do. 

Venus and Saturn are both retrograde, but Saturn is also exalted, thus making it the 


control planet for this exchange. Its status in the 10th represents his enduring repu- 
tation as a guru of asceticism and silence. 


Exchange of 2nd and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 2nd lord be in the 11th house, the native will enjoy all kinds of 
wealth and gains, will be ever diligent, honorable and famous. (BPHS 26:23) 


* Should the 11th lord be placed in the 2nd house, the native will be endowed 
with all kinds of wealth and all kinds of accomplishments, be charitable, reli- 
gious and always happy. (BPHS 26:122) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 relationship 
from wealth (dhana) houses. With this pattern, we expect the yoga to manifest its 
positive results within the contexts of family, education and wealth. 


The native's family, especially his elder siblings, and paternal aunts and uncles, will 
be wealthy and well-educated. One or the other of these is likely to be involved ina 
business having to do with banking or finance. 


He makes good money in business, and it seems that money is always flowing in his 
direction. Even his money is working to make more money through dividend-paying 
equity investments and interest-bearing instruments such as bonds. Furthermore, 
his financial fortunes improve after marriage. 


His friends become part of his extended family. He has an active social conscience, 
and lives his life accordingly. He joins community groups or social networks. He 
belongs to a sangha or is associated with some group whose common interests in- 
clude investment, education, nutrition, politics, entertainment, public speaking or 
singing. 

He may receive awards, honors or social distinctions accompanied by financial 
prizes. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Bjorn Borg, tennis player; William Jennings Bryan, politician; Carrie Fisher, actress/ 
writer; Gustave Flaubert, writer; Joan Grant, writer; James Herbert, writer; David 
Janssen, actor; Curt Jurgens, actor; Caroline Kennedy, American “royalty”; Patricia 
Krenwinkle, cult killer; Maurice Maeterlinck, philosopher; Ross Macdonald, writer; 
Wayne Newton, entertainer; Joe Pesci, actor; Oscar Pistorius, paralympic athlete; 
Pete Rose, baseball player; Frank Sinatra, entertainer; Oprah Winfrey, talk show 
hostess. 


Case study 

Oprah Winfrey, talk show host, has been dubbed the “Queen of all Media” and is, 
according to some, the most influential woman in the world. Ranked the richest 
African-American of the 20th century, America’s only black billionaire was born into 
poverty to a single teenage mother. She experienced considerable hardship in her 


childhood, getting raped at age nine, becoming pregnant at 14, and losing her only 
son in infancy. During high school she landed a job in radio, went on at age 19 to co- 
anchor local news, and subsequently graduated to daytime talk shows. The rest is 
history. 


Oprah had three half-siblings, one of whom died of cocaine abuse, another put up 
for a adoption, and a third dead of AIDS. Nicknamed “the Preacher” because of her 
ability as a child to recite Bible verses, she won an oratory contest in high school 
that earned her a full university scholarship. She has co-authored five books and 
played in more than a dozen movies. She is an active philanthropist and a major 
social influence, with the power to turn books into bestsellers and political endorse- 
ments into presidential candidates. 


Racor 


Ma ow: 
Mo as 


Venus in 2nd house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 11th house Libra. The two 
planets are mutual friends in money houses. The 2nd lord Saturn is dignified by 
sign both before and after exchange. Venus forms a Dhana Yoga with the Sun. Be- 
fore and after exchange, both Venus and Saturn are totally combust, which has the 
effect of harming family and/or friends. 


Aside from the obvious wealth-generating aspects of this combination, we should 
note the various themes of the 2nd house that have come to the fore in her life: 
eating and weight loss, confessions of substance abuse, family problems, oratorical 
skills, authorship, love of books and education. 


Equally well, the 11th house themes are observed through social networking and 
influence, political activism, gay rights advocacy, high-profile friendships (Maria 
Shriver and Maya Angelou) and public honors — honorary Harvard doctorate, and a 
Presidential Medal of Freedom. 


While Venus is totally combust, Saturn is exalted, thus making it the obvious 
control planet in this exchange. Its placement in the 11th house gives testimony to 
Oprah's income, her political influence and her status as the “Queen of all Media.” 


Exchange of 2nd and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 2nd lord occupies the 12th house, the combination makes the native 
adventurous, devoid of wealth, dependent on others, and keeps him bereft of 
the happiness of the eldest son. (BPHS 26:24) 


* Should the 12th lord be situated in the 2nd house, the native will always 
spend money on auspicious deeds, be religious, will speak sweetly, and be 
blessed with virtues and happiness. (BPHS 26:134) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 3/11 rela- 
tionship. Expense and diet control become two major themes for this particular 
configuration. 


The native experiences large fluctuations of income and expenses, perhaps stem- 
ming from import/export activities. He takes up foreign employment, or enjoys 
income from a foreign source. He doesn’t concern himself very much with money, 
and is generous in donating to worthy causes, or careless in spending money on sex 
or travel (depending on whether the respective lords are aspected by benefics or 
malefics). 


He has problems with his eyes or oral cavity, particularly if either of the house lords 
is afflicted. Mouth problems include bad teeth, foul language, untruthfulness, and 
poor dietary habits. The person could have crooked teeth, or even be cross-eyed. 


He is separated from his family as a consequence of foreign travel, hospitalization 
or incarceration. A family member takes up foreign residence for a period of time, 
maybe even immigrates. 


He is sexually attracted to a member of the extended family, eg, the mother’s older 
sibling. His second marriage is based upon sexual attraction and the spouse is 
aggressive. 


Drugs or alcohol are linked to sleep and sex, such that he needs assistance to fall 
asleep or perform sexually. Conversely, substance abuse depresses his energy level, 
affecting wakefulness and/or libido. 


Moksha, or spiritual liberation, comes with great difficulty through jnana yoga, or 
the yoga of knowledge, and devotion to the shastras. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Bertolt Brecht, playwright; Alexandra David-Neel, mystic/writer; Queen Elizabeth 
Il, British royalty; Squeaky Fromm, failed assassin; Spalding Gray, humorist; William 
Randolph Hearst, publisher; Bob Jansky, astrologer; Rodney King, LAPD victim; 
Gordon Lightfoot, musician; James Lovell, astronaut; Marion March, astrologer; 
Francois Mitterand, politician; Roger Zelazny, sci-fi writer. 


Case study 


Queen Elizabeth Il, reigning monarch of British royalty, has had a checkered life. 
On the one hand, she was born into wealth, with estates and parties and horses 
and dogs, yet during WW2 she was an ambulance mechanic and knitted socks for 
the troops. She married a Prince (of Greece) and after the birth of their son, Prince 
Charles, followed Philip’s naval career to Malta. 


Elizabeth is considered one of the world’s wealthiest women. But in 1992, she 
agreed to pay income tax on her personal income, the first time in the history of the 
monarchy. And as Queen, she has presided over the sunset of the British Empire - 
during her reign, 40 former British colonies, protectorates and territories have been 
granted their independence. 


In her lifetime, the Royal Family has “lost ground” in multiple ways. Overall, media 
scrutiny of the Royal Family, especially at the death of Diana, Princess of Wales in 
1997, led to an intense re-evaluation of the role of the British monarchy near the 
end of the century. 


Never mind the loss of wealth, the “loss of face” for the Royal family could plot a 
soap opera. Her uncle King Edward VIII abdicated to marry a commoner, making her 
father King George VI and putting her in line for next Queen. Her sister Anne was 
an alcoholic, her other sister Margaret a divorcee. The Charles and Diana marriage 
was such a mess that it ended with Diana dead. Charles got his phone hacked while 
telling Camilla he wanted to be reincarnated as her knickers. Andrew and Fergie 
split, leaving Fergie sucking someone else’s toes on a beach to the delight of pa- 
parazzi. Prince Harry was caught naked on video in Vegas. Then Andrew again, ac- 
cused of sexual abuse and taking bribes... 


No wonder Elizabeth needs a martini at tea-time. 


Mars in 2nd house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 12th house Scorpio. Both 
are malefics who happen to be enemies, and together they form, whether before or 
after exchange, a Papa Kartari Yoga with Ketu in the ascendant. 


Mars and Jupiter form a pair of Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas. Both pre- and post- 


exchange, Saturn lends its influence to partially relieve Jupiter's debilitation. 
Although Saturn is retrograde, its strength is trumped by Mars in exaltation, which 
makes the latter the more likely choice as control planet in this exchange. Its posi- 
tion in the 2nd house speaks to its role in perpetuating the themes of wealth and 
family, indeed dynasty. 


Exchanges involving the 3rd house lord 


Exchange of 3rd and 4th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 3rd lord be situated in the 4th house, the native will be happy, 
wealthy and intelligent but will acquire a vicious wife. (BPHS 26:28) 


* If the 4th lord be placed in the 3rd house, the native will be valorous, will 
have servants, be liberal, virtuous and charitable, and will have self-earned 
wealth and be free from diseases. (BPHS 26:39) 


This is a Khala Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relation- 
ship. The native is physically restless, happiest when in motion, and is therefore not 
inclined to settle down for long. He changes relationships, jobs, residence and vehi- 
cles frequently. 


He is adventurous and courageous, such that he is drawn to professions that offer 
some element of risk, eg, the arts, sports, firefighting, police, or military occupa- 
tions. His hands may play an active role in what he does for a living. 


His mother’s happiness, or his relationship with her, is disturbed. She experiences 
loss or unwelcome change in her life. She may move frequently, be frequently “off- 
balance”, and suffer debility of a physical or psychological nature. 


Although the native himself suffers breaks in his education, he is an auditory 
learner, and learns best by hearing things. An education in the arts or the trades is 
favored. 


His siblings are well-educated, and enjoy financial security. Brothers and sisters are 
close to his mother, and become involved in real estate, farming, mining, and the 
transportation or hospitality industries. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Scott Adams, cartoonist; Burt Bacharach, composer; José Raul Capablanca, chess 
grandmaster; Prince Charles, British royalty; Francis Ford Coppola, film-maker; Noel 
Coward, playwright; Ray Davies, musician; Alain Delon, actor; Shannen Doherty, 
actress; Federico Fellini, director; Joseph Goebbels, Nazi; Washington Irving, writer; 
James Jones, writer; Alan Ladd, producer; John Malkovich, actor; Ray Manzarek, 
musician; Sal Mineo, actor; Martin Scorsese, director; Daryl Sittler, hockey player; 
Sir Arthur Sullivan, composer. 


Case study 

Noel Coward was a prolific British writer for the performance arts, writing over 50 
plays, 100 songs, and novels and short stories. He also performed as an actor and 
singer in many of his productions, and later as a director and producer. Despite a 


spotty education, at the peak of his career he was the highest-paid playwright in 
the world. 


Born in the suburbs, he was introduced early on to British high society and subse- 
quently cultivated an image (dressing gown and cigarette holder) that became his 
signature look. Although his admitted goal was only to entertain, many of his plays 
were considered shocking in their day, bringing to light the shenanigans of the 
upper class, including infidelity, drug use, ménage a trois, bisexuality and homosex- 
uality. 


He was himself a closet homosexual during an era when self-disclosure was socially 
risky, but he was widely admired for his brilliant intellect and biting wit. Mentally 
as well as physically restless, he was a workaholic who declared that “work was 
more fun than fun.” He was eventually knighted for his contribution to the arts, and 
received a Tony Award for lifetime achievement. 


Jupiter in Scorpio 3rd exchanges with Mars in Sagittarius 4th. The two are mutual 
friends. Jupiter forms two Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas with lagnesh Mercury, a 
Kesari Yoga with an exalted Moon in the 9th, and a Guruchandala Yoga with Rahu 
in the 3rd. Furthermore, the presence of Jupiter at one end of the Rahu-Ketu axis 
helps to stabilize a weak Kala Sarpa configuration, arguably making it more of a 
yoga than a dosha. 


Mars as 8th lord is involved in multiple (mixed, not pure) Viparita Yogas with 6th 
lord Saturn and 12th lord the Sun. The addition of Venus in the 4th house consti- 
tutes a Pravrajya Yoga. 


3rd house themes were evident in his writing and life-long devotion to the perfor- 
mance arts. The cluster of warring malefics in the 4th house reflected his incom- 
plete education and handicapped mother. 


He spoke with characteristic clipped diction, a form of speech he adopted to ac- 
commodate his nearly-deaf mother. In the 1950s he left England for tax reasons 
to live in Bermuda, Jamaica and Switzerland. Three malefics in the 4th, along with 
the 3rd/4th exchange contributed to tubercular complications and death by heart 
attack. 


Since both planets are ordinary, control is not immediately obvious. Mars, however, 
is doubly afflicted by malefics while Jupiter, although on the nodal axis, does enjoy 
the aspect of an exalted and almost-full Moon. It’s a judgment call, but it’s safe to 
regard Jupiter as the control planet for this exchange. Its 3rd house placement epit- 
omizes Coward's success as a performer and writer. 


Exchange of 3rd and 5th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 3rd lord is placed in the 5th house, the native will be blessed with 
sons and be worthy. If he is in conjunction with or is aspected by a malefic 
planet, the native’s wife is of a cruel nature. (BPHS 26:29) 


* In case the 5th lord is situated in the 3rd house, the native will be dear to 
his brothers, be a tale bearer and miserly, and is always interested in his own 
work. (BPHS 26:51) 


This is a Khala Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 3/11 relation- 
ship. The mixed results of this yoga flow easily into manifestation, with generally 
positive effects for his siblings, but somewhat negative effects for his children. 


The person is mentally restless and always thinking of doing something. Because of 
a mental preoccupation with sex, his practical intelligence sinks to a lower plane. 
Due to a propensity for being easily distracted, this will also make meditation diffi- 
cult. On the other hand, he enjoys games or pastimes that require mental or digital 
dexterity, eg, cards, chess, backgammon, crossword puzzles, or craft work. 


He is courageous and prepared to take risks, intellectually and physically. This 
favors careers such as engineering, physics and military science, or anything requir- 
ing a technical turn of mind. He may also have talent in the arts that require man- 
ual dexterity, such as painting, drawing, music, and journalism (especially travel 
writing). 

His siblings are interested in literature, spiritual pursuits, or sports. Benefics in 
exchange favor the arts, while malefics favor sports. Younger siblings are likely to 
take frequent short journeys. 


His children are independent and earn good salaries. They are not subservient to 
their parents (may in fact be disobedient or rebellious), and tend to treat them 
more as friends. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Olivia Barclay, astrologer; Sarah Bernhardt, actress; Frank Borman, astronaut; 

Herb Elliot, track & field star; Connie Francis, singer; Gus Grissom, astronaut; Hugh 
Hefner, publisher; Immanuel Kant, philosopher; Nicolo Machiavelli, political theo- 
rist; Rainer Maria Rilke, poet; Nicole Brown Simpson, murder victim; Stephen Sond- 
heim, composer; Keith Urban, musician; Tammy Wynette, singer. 


Case study 

Sarah Bernhardt was born the illegitimate daughter of a prostitute, but eventually 
became one of the most renowned actresses of her time. After being expelled from 
France's prestigious theatre Comédie Francaise, she resumed the life of a courtesan 


to which her mother had introduced her, and made considerable money during 
those years. When she later resumed her stage career to achieve success and fame 
as a serious dramatic actress, people began to call her “the Divine Sarah.” 


Along the way, she accumulated a series of lovers from among the best-known 
artists of the day, not to mention a few members of European nobility, conducting 
her affairs with a maximum of frenzy and tragedy worthy of her dramatic back- 
ground. She was married only once for less than one year. 


A versatile artist, she studied both painting and sculpture, and her works were 
subsequently exhibited and well received. Perhaps anticipating method acting, she 
acquired a coffin in which she often slept, saying it helped her understand her many 
tragic roles. 

After injuring a knee during a performance, the leg never healed properly, gan- 
grene set in, and the entire leg had to be amputated. Undaunted, she continued to 
perform onstage, and died of kidney failure at age 78. 


Venus in 3rd house Leo exchanges with the Sun in 5th house Libra. The two are 
mutual enemies, uninvolved in any other yoga. The Sun is debilitated, hemmed by 
malefics and tightly aspected by a powerful Saturn in the 8th. 


Post-exchange, the Sun becomes a powerful 3rd lord, a common factor in actors, 
musicians and other performers. Meanwhile, Venus goes to the Sth, which is a clas- 
sic for creativity, drama and entertainment, not to mention an active love life. Note 
that, regardless of which planet occupies the 5th (pre- or post-exchange), there is 
the inescapable aspect of that powerful Saturn in the 8th. This perhaps explains 
why so many of her romances were frustrated by one circumstance or another — 
class divisions, drug addictions and scandal by association. 


The real source of her success resides more in the multiple yogas in the angles - 
lagnesh Mercury in the 4th forming Bhadra Yoga, Jupiter in the 10th forming Hamsa 
Yoga, together forming two Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas. Meanwhile the addition 
of the Moon/Mars pair adds Chandra Mangala, Kesari and a couple of Dhana Yogas 
to the mix. 


The Sun is debilitated and aspected by a powerful Saturn, whereas Venus is ordi- 
nary and absent any affliction. Thus, Venus has the relative strength to function as 
control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 3rd house is consistent with 
Bernhardt’s fame as a performing artist. 


Exchange of 3rd and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 3rd lord happens to be placed in the 6th house, the native will be inim- 
ical to his brother, be very wealthy, will have enmity with his maternal uncle, 
and will have love for his maternal aunt. (BPHS 26:30) 


* If the 6th lord is situated in the 3rd house, the native will be given to anger, 
be bereft of courage, inimical to all his brothers, and will have disobedient 
servants. (BPHS 26:63) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 relation- 
ship from dusthana and upachaya houses. Between these two difficult house lords, 
we expect the native to experience significant struggle in overcoming obstacles and 
competitors, paying the price perhaps in defeat or disease. 


The native doesn’t appear outwardly adventurous until challenged by competitors, 
at which time his courage emerges. He is capable of using his hands in some skilled 
way, which includes wielding them as weapons. His health is weak with respect to 
the lungs and digestion, but although initially poor, both improve over time. He 
may also have hearing problems, especially in the right ear. 


His talents, of a technical or service nature, favor jobs in the medical, legal, military, 
police and security industries. His earnings gradually increase over time. He has 
little talent in the arts, and even though he might persevere, success will be hard- 
earned. 


He has difficult relations with his brothers and sisters, some of whom may be 
involved in competitive sports. A younger sibling could be engaged in the purchase 
and sale of (stolen) vehicles or properties. His mother’s siblings, who might have 
good jobs, reputation or status, also suffer misfortunes in life. 


As an employee, skilled adversaries are much in evidence, and compete with him for 
job opportunities. As an employer, he has problems with staff - either through in- 
competence, theft or unreliability — leading to a situation of high turnover. His pets 
get lost, run away or are stolen. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Nat “King” Cole, musician; David Copperfield, illusionist; Otto Dietrich, Nazi press 
chief; Bob Fosse, dancer; James Garner, actor; L. Ron Hubbard, Scientologist; lan 
McKellen, actor; Joe Montana, football player; Demi Moore, actress; Maximilian 
Robespierre, revolutionary; William Shatner, actor; Sirhan Sirhan, assassin; Edward 
Snowden, whistleblower; Dennis Wilson, musician; Christian Wirth, Nazi. 


Case study 
Edward Snowden, a former computer systems administrator for the CIA, became 


perhaps the world’s most famous whistle-blower to date when he leaked informa- 
tion regarding the NSA’s systemic monitoring of American citizens’ emails, texts, 
and phone calls, as well as spying on countries deemed sympathetic to the USA. 
After fleeing the USA, Snowden was granted asylum in Russia, where he remains to 
this day. Since then, the US government has charged him with theft of government 
property and two counts of espionage, conviction on any of which charge could see 
him imprisoned for a decade. 


Notwithstanding his fugitive status, Snowden's actions have changed the modern 
world. People, especially in America, no longer assume that their emails, texts 

and phone calls are kept private, and online business for domestic companies has 
suffered hugely. Although judgment on his status remains mixed in America, polls 
around the rest of the world regard Snowden to be more hero than traitor, and he 
has received numerous awards and accolades for his role in encouraging govern- 
ment transparency where it concerns the privacy of citizens. 

Dubbed “a genius among geniuses” by his former colleagues, Snowden has an [Q of 
145, speaks functional Chinese and Japanese, and at the height of his career was se- 
nior systems geek for the CIA. 


M 
A 


S 1837 


le 
2 


Venus in 3rd house Cancer exchanges with the Moon in 6th house Libra. Pre- or 
post-exchange, a powerful Saturn in the 6th influences both the 3rd and 6th houses 
and their lords, thus promising breaks in both limbs and employment. 


This exchange between 3rd and 6th lords invokes their upachaya nature, for strug- 
gle and success. The 3rd is also a kamasthana, expressing a desire to do something, 
to summon courage and demonstrate prowess. The 6th is associated with service 
and employment but also the competitive spirit necessary to succeed in whatever k- 
shetra is required - athletic field, courtroom or battlefield. 


No matter whether lagnesh Venus or the Moon resides in the 6th house, we expect 
these themes to emerge in the life: competitive/combative nature, security work 

of some kind, potential litigation. As it turns out, Snowden enjoys martial arts, and 
joined the US reserve with the intention of fighting in Iraq but was discharged when 
he broke both legs during a training exercise. 


He worked as both a security guard and analyst for the CIA and, ironically, has been 
accused of undermining US national security. His parents and siblings all worked 
for the federal government, two of them in a legal capacity. Despite his public per- 
sona, he is a soft-spoken vegetarian. 

Since the Moon and Venus are both ordinary, there is no obvious control planet. 
Therefore, we might simply favor the 6th house, occupied by an exalted and retro- 
grade Saturn. This is consistent with what he’s known for: a security analyst turned 
whistle-blower, a digital Don Quixote now the object of governmental prosecution. 


For a more complete analysis of his chart, see the Snowden article on my website. 


Exchange of 3rd and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 3rd lord occupy the 7th house, the native will have aptitude for 
serving the King, he will not be happy during childhood but there is no doubt 
in it that he will get happiness at the end. (BPHS 26:31) 


* If the 7th lord is situated in the 3rd house, the children of the native are 
subjected to (early) death. Sometimes a daughter is born, and a son may also 
remain living with great difficulty. (BPHS 26:75) 


This is a Khala Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 5/9 relationship 
from kama houses. Because of this relationship, we expect a passionate approach to 
life that results in the ready fruition of artistic accomplishments and relationships. 


The native is courageous, adventurous, willing to take risks, and intent on living an 
exciting and varied life. Talented in lovemaking, he may seek adventure through 
sexual relationships of an ephemeral nature. The exchange of two kama lords 
creates strong passions, which may strain a monogamous relationship. Either the 
native or his spouse has strong sexual drives that may not be fulfilled within the 
relationship. 


The native is fond of travel and likely to form partnerships — business or personal 

- with foreigners. This combination favors careers in sales, marketing, and public 
relations. His siblings will be adventurous and well-traveled. He may share a special 
relationship with his sibling’s children. 


The spouse may be artistic or athletic, but willful and ill-tempered, such that 
occasional separations become likely. The spouse pursues foreign studies, and may 
share a mutual attraction with one of the native’s siblings. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Tammy Faye Bakker, evangelist; Carla Bruni, model; Roger Daltrey, singer; John 
Wayne Gacy, serial killer; Francoise Gauquelin, statistician; Mel Gibson, actor; Lady 
Bird Johnson, US First Lady; Patty Hearst, publishing heiress; Jim Jarmusch, direc- 
tor; David Letterman, talk show host; Ed McMahon, TV host; Wendy Yoshimiro, po- 
litical activist. 


Case study 


John Wayne Gacy, aka The Killer Klown, was a Chicago-area serial killer who during 
the 1970s sexually assaulted and murdered at least 33 teenage boys and young 
men. Most were buried under the cellar floor of his suburban home. 

Gacy was brutalized by his father throughout his youth, sexually molested as a child 
by a family acquaintance, and later initiated homosexual contacts with several of 
his employees. He worked in a mortuary for a short period and at one time climbed 


naked into a coffin with a deceased young man. 


While briefly serving time for sodomy, he was a model prisoner, and initiated a 
number of improvements in prison conditions. He was for a time the manager of 
three KFC stores and later a successful building contractor. A zealous social net- 
worker, he was an ardent Democrat and a president of the local Jaycees, whose du- 
bious social activities at the time included prostitution and wife-swapping. 


He was married twice, although his second wife divorced him for sexual impotency. 
He liked to entertain at children’s parties wearing a signature clown costume. After 
being incarcerated, he began to paint, often featuring himself in costume. Some of 
his paintings sold for as much as $20,000, although many were later bought by vic- 
tims’ families in order to be burned. 


Venus in 3rd house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 7th house Taurus. The two 
are mutual friends exchanging via kama (desire) houses. Pre-exchange, Saturn en- 
joys dig bala in the 7th and forms one Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga with lagnesh 
Mars, and another with 5th lord Jupiter. 


Post-exchange, Venus in the 7th creates karako bhavo nashto, a situation that sym- 
bolically spoils relationships. Further note that, if Venus transfers its own degree 
position into the 7th house, it forms graha yuddha with Jupiter, a planetary war 
that afflicts both the object of affection (Jupiter as lord of the Sth) and the partner 
(Venus as lord of the 7th). 


Pre-exchange, three dusthana lords (Saturn, Mars, Mercury) occupy the kendras. 
Post-exchange, three dusthana lords (Venus, Mars, Mercury) occupy the kendras. In 
either event, two associate with 5th lord Jupiter while simultaneously aspecting the 
lagna. 


Interestingly enough, after years of engaging in forced homosexual rape, Gacy 
moved on to murder during the bhukti of Saturn, one of the players in this Parivar- 
tana Yoga. 

While Venus is ordinary, Saturn has dig bala, thus giving it the strength to function 
as control planet in this exchange. Its position in the 7th reflects the homicidal na- 
ture of his sexual obsessions. 


Exchange of 3rd and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 3rd lord is situated in the 8th house, the native will be a thief, will 
derive his livelihood from serving others, and will be killed by a king. (BPHS 
26:32) 


* In case the 8th lord is gone in the 3rd house, the native will be devoid of fra- 
ternal happiness, be indolent, be devoid of vigor, and without servants. (BPHS 
26:87) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship 
from dusthana houses (the 3rd is a mild dusthana). Because of the relative positions 
of the participant planets, they are somewhat blind to each other, so that the yoga 
may not manifest on a public or conscious level, but in a more personal or uncon- 
scious manner. 


The native is cautious, avoids risks, and has difficulty in fulfilling his desires. He may 
have secret adventures, either sexual or criminal in nature. He may be inclined to do 
things that transgress conventional laws or morals, such that his activities turn into 
misadventures. 


He reveals a heightened level of sexual interest or activity, but also experiences 
stressful circumstances surrounding such activities, involving aberrations or 
trauma, eg, rape, incest, perversion, nymphomania or satyriasis, etc. The net effect 
is that he becomes sexually exhausted or debilitated over time. 


He has health problems regarding his hearing, upper limbs and/or lungs. He is 
prone to mishaps, especially in the course of day-to-day travel. Longevity is poor. 
He engages in activities that are self-injurious, perhaps even life-threatening, some- 
times verging on suicidal behavior. 


Unless supported by other yogas or benefic aspects, this exchange suggests the na- 
tive has difficulty expressing his artistic talents or athletic skills. On the other hand, 
he may have strong interest or hidden talents in the occult or mystic arts. 

His siblings are sickly, accident-prone and generally unlucky. They experience 
hardships in the form of emotional or physical trauma, financial reversals and pre- 
mature demise. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Eva Gabor, actress; Max Klinger, artist; Vivien Leigh, actress; Michelangelo, Renais- 
sance man; Louis Pasteur, scientist; Sri Bhagwan Rajneesh, guru; Boz Scaggs, musi- 
cian; Robert Sherwood, playwright; Robert Stack, actor. 


Case study 
Sri Bhagwan Rajneesh was an Indian mystic and guru. Some describe his philosophy 


as a potpourri of counter-cultural ideas focusing on love and freedom, living for the 
moment, the importance of self, the mystery of life, individual responsibility for 
one’s own destiny and the need to lose the ego, fear and guilt. 


Critical of both contemporary Indian politics and religion, he was disparaged as 
much as admired. His ideas on sex, marriage, family and relationships contradicted 
traditional views, arousing anger and opposition. In India, he became known as the 
“sex guru” because his spiritual community practiced a form of sexual libertinism. 
His life was characterized by scandal and notoriety. 


His lifestyle was lavish, with multiple mansions and 93 Rolls-Royces. For a period 
of time he and his followers resided in the USA, where he was dubbed the “Rolls- 
Royce guru.” In America, he ran afoul of both the religious establishment and the 
tax authorities, was charged with 35 counts of conspiracy and fraud, briefly impris- 
oned and ultimately forced to leave the country. 


He had impaired hearing in the right ear, suffered asthma and diabetes, and for a 
time took 60 mg Valium daily and was addicted to nitrous oxide, under whose influ- 
ence he dictated a number of books. Over 650 books are attributed to him, mostly 
transcriptions from his many public lectures, in which he was acknowledged to be a 
spellbinding speaker. 


Jupiter in 3rd house Cancer exchanges with the Moon in 8th house Sagittarius. Pre- 
exchange, Jupiter is strong, being both exalted and retrograde, while the Moon is 
weak, being dark in only the third tithi after the new moon. 


Although the Moon participates in none of them, a massive cluster of planets in the 
8th generates seven Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas and two Dhana Yogas. This same 
concentration of activity in the 8th house also fueled a major theme of sexuality, 
which ultimately tainted his reputation. 


Transposing Jupiter to the 8th creates a (virtual) Viparita Yoga, with a full mala of 
trik lords (Venus, Jupiter and Mars) in a trikasthana house. But since this is not a 
“pure” Viparita (ie, trik lords segregated from innocent bystanders), it also has the 
side effect of contaminating Mercury and Saturn, lords of 2nd/5th and 9th/10th, 
respectively. 


Thus, we see signs of substance abuse and poisoning (his US ashram was found 
guilty of contaminating a neighboring town’s food supply), “wrong” (highly con- 
troversial) teaching, rebellious acolytes (subversion from within his inner circle), 
unethical (questionable) conduct and outright clashes with government authorities, 
at one time seeking asylum but deemed persona non grata in every country where 
he sought refuge. 

Whereas the Moon is dark, Jupiter is exalted and retrograde, making it the obvious 
choice for control planet of this exchange. Jupiter is “guru” in Sanskrit, hence its 
generic association with spiritual life. Its placement in the 3rd house also reminds 
us that Rajneesh was a prolific writer, both under his original name and his subse- 
quent “relabeling” as Osho. 


Exchange of 3rd and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 3rd lord happens to fall in the 9th house, the native is bereft of pater- 
nal happiness, makes fortunes through his wife, and enjoys the happiness of 
having sons, etc. (BPHS 26:33) 


* if the 9th lord is placed in the 3rd house, the native will be blessed with fra- 
ternal bliss, be wealthy, virtuous and charming. (BPHS 26:99) 


This is a Khala Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 7/7 relationship. 
Because this mutual aspect facilitates the individual’s awareness of the exchange, 
the urge for integration is a fully conscious one. 


The native has a strong desire for spiritual development but is frustrated in his 
efforts to make things happen as quickly as he would like. He has the courage 
to follow his principles, and takes up righteous causes. A bit of a fanatic, he tries 
too hard to convince others of his beliefs, and may get into trouble with the law 
through inflammatory writings or actions. 


He relocates in order to pursue a higher education in the fine arts or the physical 
sciences. He travels a lot, both locally, and to foreign locales. He doesn’t have any 
natural luck, but succeeds through his own efforts. He is talented in the literary 
arts, and may be a writer, a teacher or a media professional. Other potential occu- 
pations include columnists, editors and lawyers and pilots. 


He enjoys good relations with his siblings, but a difficult relationship with his 
father. His siblings are religious, attached to their gurus, and travel to foreign coun- 
tries for their higher education. The father is engaged in much day-to-day travel, 
and is artistic or athletic, but is likely to have a short life span. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Gianni Agnelli, industrialist; David Byrne, musician; Karen Carpenter, singer; Larry 
Csonka, football player; Tim Curry, actor; Robert Guccione, publisher; Erich Hart- 
mann, ace fighter pilot; Waylon Jennings, singer; Katherine Mansfield, writer; 
Richard Nolle, astrologer; Don Schollander, Olympic swimmer; Mickey Spillane, 
writer; George Strait, singer; Tiger Woods, golfer. 


Case study 


Mickey Spillane was a prolific and successful writer, and his “hard-boiled” detective 
novels have sold over 225 million copies. An athletic man, he swam and played 
football in high school, while later in life he was a professional diver, a trampoline 
artist, a race car driver, a flight instructor and a WW2 fighter pilot. 


He began his writing career creating scripts for comic books, including Captain 
America, Batman, Superman and Captain Marvel. Although his Mike Hammer series 
of hard-boiled detective novels outraged many critics of the day because of their 
overt descriptions of sex and violence, no less a literary icon than Ayn Rand publicly 
endorsed his work. Subsequent critics have come around to seeing poetry in his 
lean, muscular style of writing, and in 1985 he received the Edgar Allan Poe Grand 
Master Award for his body of work. 


Spillane was an active Jehovah's Witness, was married three times, and died of pan- 
creatic carcinoma at the age of 88. 


The Moon in 3rd house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in Sth house Cancer. 
Saturn has strength as a retrograde, although the waning Moon is weak within four 
tithis of the new moon. Nevertheless, each planet aspects its own sign, thus grant- 
ing their respective houses protection, meanwhile creating a strong theme of activ- 
ity along the 3rd/9th axis. 


Pre- or post-exchange, the Moon and Venus create one Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yoga, while the Moon and Saturn create another. Although not a yoga per se, the 
Moon/Venus sambandha is a common factor seen in the charts of people of artistic 
temperament or profession. 


3rd house themes are evident in his athleticism, physical prowess and daredevil 
character. Sth house themes came through as an interest in law, a devout religious 
practice, and his role as instructor, both in pilot training for the air force and in 
teaching writing at local colleges. 

Whereas the Moon is dark, Saturn is retrograde, thus qualifying it as the control 


planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 9th reminds us of Spillane’s success in 
publishing and teaching, as well as his lesser-known spiritual devotion. 


Exchange of 3rd and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* When the 3rd lord is placed in the 10th house, the native will have all kinds 
of happiness, and self-made wealth, and is apt to nurture wicked females. 
(BPHS 26:34) 


* If the 10th lord is situated in the 3rd house, the native will enjoy happiness 
from brothers and servants, be valorous, virtuous, eloquent and truthful. 
(BPHS 26:111) 


This is a Khala Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship. 
These are both upachaya house lords, but their relationship makes it difficult for 
their owner to take full advantage of their partnership, so it takes considerable 
effort to yield significant results. 


The native is talented in the fine arts, athletic activities, or one of the standard 
trades. Despite initial setbacks in his desires or ambitions, he eventually achieves 
success, thanks to the influence of upachaya lords, who are capable of conferring 
triumph over adversity, albeit after significant struggle. 


He puts a lot of effort into his career, sometimes too aggressively, and could incur 
the displeasure of superiors and/or the public. He has the courage to take bold 
stands that generate publicity and visibility within his social circle. He may have an 
affair with someone at work. 


He has special manual skills critical to his chosen profession, whether in the per- 
forming arts, sports or skilled trades. Due to occupational hazards, he may suffer 
injuries to his hearing, upper limbs, lungs, nerves or skin. 


The person's siblings are helpful in pursuing his profession. One of the siblings may 
be employed in the arts, sports or skilled trades. Siblings are prone to accidents, 
setbacks and miscellaneous misfortunes in life. 


Famous people with this yoga 


William Jennings Bryan, politician; Michael Caine, actor; Albert Camus, writer; 
Lewis Carroll, logician/writer; Mia Farrow, actress; Betty Friedan, feminist; Linda 
Hunt, actress; Herman Kahn, strategist; Steve Miller, musician; Victoria Sackville- 
West, writer; Sepharial, occult journalist. 


Case study 

Mia Farrow is an actress, activist and former model. Her father was a film director, 
her mother actress Maureen O'Sullivan. She was raised Catholic and schooled by 
convent nuns for 13 years. Both older brothers died suddenly — one in a plane crash, 
the other by suicide. 


She first gained notice in the television soap opera Peyton Place, from which she 


withdrew to marry Frank Sinatra when she was 21 and he was 50. After he discour- 
aged her acting career, she became bored and they divorced after only two years of 
marriage. Her role in Rosemary’s Baby, which won her a Golden Globe, catapulted 
her into stardom. 


She visited India to study TM with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi at the same time as the 
Beatles. In 1970, she had an affair with and subsequently married conductor/com- 
poser André Previn with whom she had twins. They divorced in 1979. 


Shortly thereafter, she began a relationship with Woody Allen, and from 1980 to 
1992 starred in 13 of his movies. Their relationship collapsed when she discovered 
his interest in one of their adopted children, Korean-born Soon Yi. Thereafter, they 
split amid allegations and counter-accusations regarding various forms of abuse 
concerning other of their adopted children. 


Since then, she’s become a high-profile advocate for human rights in Africa, partic- 
ularly children’s rights, and has received several awards for her humanitarian work. 


Saturn in 3rd house Gemini exchanges with Mercury in 10th house Capricorn. 
Saturn is strong, being retrograde, while Mercury associates with two fiery planets 
(both the Sun and Mars have dig bala in the 10th) without becoming combust. Nei- 
ther planet participates in any other yoga. 


Combinations involving the 3rd and 10th house lords are common among actors, 
musicians and other performers. 


No matter where we look for siblings, trouble looms. Mercury is 3rd house lord 
(younger siblings), while Saturn is 11th house lord (older siblings). Pre- or post-ex- 
change, one or the other is afflicted by the nodal axis or the malefic Sun/Mars pair 
(Mars is 8th lord), thus generating sorrow, especially for elder siblings. 


Between the two of them, Mercury and Saturn rule all four upachaya houses — 3rd, 
6th, 10th and 11th. Pre- or post-exchange, Mercury or Saturn also associate with 
command-and-control planets Sun and Mars in the 10th, thus provoking some 
sort of activism. This is most obvious in her humanitarian work, where she’s been 
both aggressive and insistent on taking governments to task for their treatment of 
children. 

While Mercury is merely ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, thus confirming it as the 


control planet in this exchange. Its placement in the 3rd house highlights her role as 
an actor. 


Exchange of 3rd and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 3rd lord has gone into the 11th house, the native will always gain in 
trading, will be intelligent in spite of being illiterate, be adventurous, and will 
serve others. (BPHS 26:35) 


* If the 11th lord be situated in the 3rd house, the native will be skillful in all 
jobs, wealthy, be blessed with fraternal bliss, and sometimes may incur gout 
pains. (BPHS 26:123) 


This is a Khala Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 5/9 relationship 
from upachaya and kama houses. Because of this pattern, the powerful combina- 
tion of desire and effort is accompanied by a certain degree of good fortune, thus 
yielding commensurate results. 


The native has the courage to address large assemblies, and may act as a spokesper- 
son for an association or society. He is talented in entertaining large groups of 
people, through speaking or performing. He takes part in a group adventure, and is 
a member of a musical group or performing arts troupe. He may be ambidextrous, 
and has a good musical ear. 


After a period of struggle, his ambitions are ultimately fulfilled and his gains ac- 
cumulate gradually. He is a natural trader who makes money by taking calculated 
risks. Alternatively, he earns money through the arts, writing or technical trades. 


He also gains wealth through his siblings, who support his hopes and ambitions. His 
younger siblings pursue foreign travels. He has a close relationship with his sibling’s 
children. He has many friends who are treated as part of the family. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Helen Gurley Brown, publisher; Chrissie Hynde, singer; Jayne Mansfield, actress; 
Marion March, astrologer; Emperor Maximilian |, German royalty; Jimmy Page, 
musician; Carlo Ponti, producer; Kelly Quinn, psychic; John Rechy, writer; Keith 
Richards, musician; Telly Savalas, actor; Jo Jo Starbuck, Olympic skater; Bobby 
Womack, musician. 


Case study 


Keith Richards is a musician, singer and songwriter, an original member of the 
world’s most enduring rock band, the Rolling Stones. Fellow musicians note that, 
while most bands follow their drummer, the Stones have no choice but to follow 
helmsman Richards. 

Richards is both a traditionalist, favoring acoustic blues, and an innovator, using 5- 
stringed electric guitars with open tuning. Rolling Stone magazine credited him for 
“rock's greatest single body of riffs” on guitar and ranked him 4th on its list of 100 


best guitarists. 


Long defying Top 10 lists of who'll die next, Richards is an archetype of a rock star's 
gypsy lifestyle. One journalist labeled him with Lord Byron’s epithet - “mad, bad, 
and dangerous to know.” Another said he’s “a capering streak of living gristle who 
ought to be exhibited as a warning to youth of what drugs can do to you even if 
you're lucky enough not to choke on your own vomit.” 

Richards, who's been frank about his drug abuse, including heroin addiction and 
blood-cleansing in Swiss clinics, has been tried on drug-related charges five times. 
An avid reader with a strong interest in WW2 history, he owns an extensive library. 
A 2010 article revealed he yearns to be a librarian. Co-written with a journalist, 
Richards’ memoir Life was released in 2010, following a US publisher’s advance of 
US $7.3 million. 


Su ons P) 
Me x y 


> 
2 
SaR »33 
MaR 1:9 


The Sun in 3rd house Sagittarius exchanges with Jupiter in 11th house Leo. The two 
are mutual friends in kama and upachaya houses. The pre-exchange Sun and Mer- 
cury form a Dhana Yoga. Jupiter is strong, being retrograde, and forms Kesari Yoga 
with a relatively bright Moon. 


Whether before or after the Sun/Jupiter exchange, (inflammatory) Mars still as- 
pects both the 3rd house and its lord Jupiter. From most current photos, it appears 
that Richards’ hands are becoming arthritic. 


3rd house themes are revealed through his guitar prowess, songwriting talents and 
love of books. Note that the 3rd/11th exchange involves the two houses that rule 
the right and left hands, respectively. Interestingly, another fabled rock guitarist, 
Jimmy Page, also has a 3rd/11th exchange. 

The 11th house theme has played out in “group work”, a huge income, an iconic 
social profile as a rock star, ongoing dedication to fellow musicians, and a collection 
of guitars that numbers over 3000. 

Whereas the Sun is merely ordinary, Jupiter is retrograde and therefore emerges as 
the control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 11th highlights Richards’ 
primary role in a group wherein he is universally acknowledged as the helmsman of 
the world’s greatest rock ‘n’ roll band. 


Exchange of 3rd and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 3rd lord being placed in the 12th house, the native will 
spend his wealth in evil deeds, his father will be cruel, and the native becomes 
fortunate through his wife. (BPHS 26:36) 


* If the 12th lord is placed in the 3rd house, the native will be devoid of frater- 
nal bliss, will have hatred for other people, and will promote self-nourishment 
or be self-centered. (BPHS 26:135) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 relation- 
ship from dusthana houses. There is tension and lack of easy rapport in situations 
representing this yoga, especially sexual adventures or distant travels. 


The native is interested in spiritual liberation and self-improvement, but lacks the 
courage of his convictions to make a daily discipline of his practice. Instead, he may 
perform mean acts in secrecy or in a subversive manner. He may receive sexual initi- 
ation from a sibling or neighbor, and thereafter has an unconventional attitude to- 
wards sexuality. 


He is physically restless, spends money on unwholesome adventures in foreign 
places, and writes about his experiences. He often regrets (the 12th house is hind- 
sight) things he said or did, and should be careful of things put in writing, which 
may come back to haunt him. 


He has health problems related to his hearing, upper limbs and lungs. He will make 
frequent trips to a day clinic. Coordination of hands or fingers is poor and, in some 
cases, may entail the total dysfunction or loss of digital control. 


Unless supported by other factors, this exchange suggests the native has neither 
artistic talents nor athletic abilities, but has gifts in the occult arts. He may have 
clairaudient faculties, although the “voices” he hears are not always reliable. 


He incurs expenses on behalf of his siblings, who are sick, unlucky or dispossessed 
of their domestic comforts. Siblings experience frequent change and dislocation in 
their professional lives, or isolation in the form of hospitalization, imprisonment, or 
foreign residence. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Prince Albert, British royalty; Peter Bogdanovitch, director; Lloyd Bridges, actor; 
Rita Mae Brown, writer; Paul Cézanne, artist; Jean Chretien, politician; John Dens- 
more, musician; Richard Dreyfuss, actor; Julie Harris, actress; King Henry IV, French 
royalty; Hal Holbrook, actor; MacGregor Mathers, occultist; Vance Packard, writer; 
Gregory Peck, actor; James Plunkett, football player; Lily Pons, opera singer; Ed- 
ward G. Robinson, actor; Britney Spears, singer; Barbra Streisand, entertainer. 


Case study 


Paul Cézanne was a French artist and post-Impressionist painter who paved the 
transition from 19th-century artistic conceptions to a radically different art in the 
20th century. His explorations of geometric simplification and optical phenomena 
inspired Picasso and others to experiment with more complex views of the same 
subject and eventually to the fracturing of form. 


His father, a successful banker, provided Cézanne a financial security unavailable 
to most of his contemporaries and eventually left him a large inheritance. Cézanne 
was married with one son, but the marriage was stormy, with frequent separations. 


Cézanne’s works were rejected numerous times by the official Salon in Paris and 
ridiculed by art critics when exhibited with the Impressionists. Yet during his life- 
time he was considered a master by younger artists who visited his studio in Aix-en- 
Provence. 


Despite later public recognition and financial success, Cézanne chose to work in 
increasing artistic isolation, spending long periods as a virtual recluse. He was rude, 
shy, angry, and given to depression. During his so-called "dark period”, his work in- 
cluded erotic and violent subject matter. 


Caught in a downpour one day, he continued working in the field for two hours 
before going home; the next day, he was put to bed, but never left it, dying of 
pneumonia. 


Mercury in 3rd house Sagittarius exchanges with Jupiter in 12th house Virgo. 
Neither planet contributes to the formation of any other constructive yoga. Pre- 
and post-exchange, both planets remain afflicted. Mercury is aspected by Mars, and 
hemmed by the Sun and Saturn. Jupiter is associated with Mars and the Rahu-Ketu 
axis. 


Given the close association of Mars on that axis, versus the “oscillating” contribu- 
tion of Jupiter, we're inclined to regard the Kala Sarpa configuration as more of a 
dosha than a yoga, with all its associated misfortunes. 


3rd house themes are revealed through his novel technique of painting, using 


planes of color and small brush strokes built up to form complex fields of view. His 
early paintings also reflected 12th house themes of sexual obsession, repressed 
anger, violence, pain and frustration. Although ultimately the toast of Parisian art 
society, Cézanne was a recluse for much of his life, preferring the solitude of coun- 
try living and the company of farmers and peasants. 


Both Mercury and Jupiter are ordinary, although Jupiter is the more afflicted of the 
two. Therefore, Mercury has the relative strength to function as control planet for 
this exchange, its 3rd house placement reflecting his technical mastery of his art. 


Exchanges involving the 4th house lord 


Exchange of 4th and 5th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 4th lord is situated in the 5th house, the native will be happy, be 
favorite of all, devotee of Lord Vishnu, virtuous, honorable, and will possess 
self-earned wealth. (BPHS 26:41) 


* If the 5th lord occupies the 4th house, the native will be happy, having the 
blessing of maternal happiness, wealth and intelligence, and be a king ora 
minister or a preceptor. (BPHS 26:52) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) wherein the 
lords are in a mutual 2/12 relationship. The combination of a kendra and trikona 
lord assures that fortune goes hand in hand with commensurate effort. 


The native is intelligent and gets a good education. Possibly as a result of his 
mother's influence, he is spiritually inclined, studies scriptures or classical works, 
and attempts to pass on similar training to his own children. He takes pleasure 

in riding horses or vehicles. His home is a place of learning and contains a good 
library. 

He studies or pursues a career in mining, oceanography, agriculture, civil engineer- 
ing, education, psychology, or social work. He gains through government, the field 
of education, real estate investments, or trade in vehicles of one kind or another. He 
may teach executives, government employees or children. He could be employed as 
a writer-in-residence. 


His mother is interested in religion or education. Her finances are secure. His chil- 
dren are well settled in life and a source of happiness for him, even though they 
may experience loss or significant changes in life. Children may travel abroad or 
immigrate. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Pedro Almodovar, director; Lisa Bonet, actress; Richard Carpenter, musician; Pablo 
Casals, cellist; Derek Clayton, track & field star; Keith Emerson, musician; Greta 
Garbo, actress; Bobby Hull, hockey player; Klaus Kinski, actor; Dean Martin, enter- 
tainer; Joni Mitchell, singer; Bill Moyers, journalist; Joachim Von Ribbentrop, diplo- 
mat; Henri Rousseau, artist; Carlos Santana, musician; Ted Turner, entrepreneur. 


Case study 

Ted Turner, former media mogul turned environmental philanthropist, is among the 
top 300 wealthiest people in the USA. He inherited the family billboard business 
after his father committed suicide. Early in his career he invested in radio stations 


and later switched to TV stations, then to cable networks, founding CNN in 1980. 


He helped reinvent interest in professional wrestling, and is the owner of the At- 
lanta Braves and Atlanta Hawks. A political activist, he’s fought for environmental 
causes, population control and nuclear containment, and in 1998 donated $1 billion 
to the United Nations. 


Turner has been married and divorced three times, and has five children. Ina 2012 
interview with Piers Morgan, Turner admitted he had four girlfriends, which he ac- 
knowledged was complicated but easier than being married. 


He has received multiple awards in recognition for his civic work, named Humanist 
of the Year in 1990, Time magazine’s Man of the Year in 1991, and many other 
accolades. 


In 2008, Turner asserted on PBS that if steps were not taken to address global 
warming, most people would die and “the rest of us will be cannibals.” Indeed, 
Turner's penchant for controversial statements over the years earned him the nick- 
names "The Mouth of the South” and "Captain Outrageous.” 


Jupiter in 4th house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 5th house Pisces. Saturn is 
strong (retrograde) in mutual aspect with Mars, thus creating a Dharma Karma Ad- 
hipati Yoga. 

Post-exchange, Saturn, the karaka for undeveloped land, moves into the house 
signifying property. Indeed, Turner is one of America’s largest private landowners, 
owning 15 ranches with a total of approximately 2,000,000 acres. He also owns the 
largest herd of (50,000) bison in the world. 

4th house themes are also evident in his original passion for the Greek classics at 
university, and his command of racing yachts. He successfully defended America’s 
Cup against Australia in 1977 and holds four “Yachtsman of the Year” awards. 5th 
house themes include his ownership of multiple sports franchises and TV networks. 
His ascendant lord, bhumikaraka Mars, is also involved in a second Parivartana Yoga 
with Mercury in the 1st, whose exchange itself constitutes a Dhana Yoga. As noted 
earlier, although 40% of the population has one mutual reception in their charts, 
only 3% has two. 


Whereas Jupiter is merely ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, and thus becomes the 
control planet in this exchange. Its 5th house placement is consistent with Turner's 
empire having been built on sports franchises and entertainment networks. 


Exchange of 4th and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 4th lord falling in the 6th house, the native will be devoid 
of maternal happiness. He will be given to wrath, be a thief and a man of 
questionable character, self-willed and vicious. (BPHS 26:42) 


* In case the 6th lord is situated in the 4th house, the native will be devoid of 
maternal happiness, intelligent, a tale bearer, jealous, fickle-minded and very 
rich. (BPHS 26:64) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 3/11 relation- 
ship. Because of the dynamic between the participant planets (kendra lord and trik 
lord) results will come only grudgingly after a period of tribulation. 


The native’s values are tainted, and there's a tendency to take an aggressive or 
avaricious approach to dealing with others, such that conflict in the home or the 
community is likely. He experiences health problems via rheumatism or weakness 
of the heart. 


His home is often in a state of renovation or repair. Property and real estate are 
also a source of disputes, leading to lawsuits over ownership, disagreements with 
tenants, houses requiring repair. Vehicles are another source of problems, being ina 
state of disrepair or involving him in accident or injury. 


He must work hard to achieve an education, during which competition is severe. 
He’s strongly interested in healing, and has an intuitive approach to diagnosis. Al- 
though there are interruptions or obstacles in completing a degree, he acquires an 
education in medicine, military studies, law enforcement, veterinary science or en- 
vironmental studies. 

He has a great affinity for animals and works as a vet, animal trainer or animal 
rights advocate. He works at home, or spends so much time at work that his office is 
like a home away from home. 

His mother has health problems and is a source of worry or sorrow. If not mentally 
or physically ill, she’s at odds with the native, causing disagreements and enmity. 
She takes many short journeys. Her siblings have good incomes. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Ned Beatty, actor; Eric Burdon, singer; Sandy Dennis, actress; Joan Didion, writer; 
Bob Dylan, musician; George Eliot, writer; Naomi Judd, singer; Stacy Keach, actor; 
Henri Matisse, artist; Nancy Mitford, writer; Gwyneth Paltrow, actress; Rusty Schwe- 
ickart, astronaut; Upton Sinclair, writer; Luchino Visconti, director. 


Case study 
Bob Dylan, musician and songwriter, has written over 300 songs, selling 100 million 


records over a career spanning 50 years. Defying existing pop music conventions, 
his work incorporated political, social, philosophical and literary influences ina 
style once described as surreal talking blues. 


Shy, moody, careless of his health, scared by fame, immaterial but shrewd about 
money, he was a profound intellectual who, despite mixed reviews in his early 
years, was supported by peers Joan Baez and Johnny Cash. 


After a serious motorcycle accident that broke his neck and almost killed him, he 
went into seclusion for eight years before touring again. In later years, his health 
deteriorated. In 1997, he was hospitalized with a life-threatening heart infection. 


He was married twice, with six children, and has been the object of a couple of pa- 
ternity suits. 


He has received multiple awards, including a Golden Globe and a Grammy for Life- 
time Achievement. Despite his loyal fan base, his overall output has been spotty. 
One critic characterized his singing as “a catarrhal death rattle.” Live performances 
have been irregular, and studio productions criticized for sloppiness. One of his 
films was judged an “incoherent mess.” 


A 2007 study of US legal briefs found his lyrics quoted by judges and lawyers more 
than any other songwriter, the most widely cited line being “you don’t need a 
weatherman to know which way the wind blows.” 


Mars in 4th house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 6th house Aries. Saturn is de- 
bilitated but forms a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga with the Moon. 


Post-exchange, Mars from the 6th house aspects its own sign in the ascendant, thus 
fueling the aggressive stance that marked so much of his early work, both in per- 
sonal style and socio-political alliances. 


4th house themes are evident in his populist appeal and his very strong fan base. 
The 4th/6th exchange, although not a classic for vehicular accidents, provides the 
setup for related injuries. Heart ailments are to be expected, given the exchange of 
two malefics across these houses, and especially considering Saturn’s debilitation. 
6th house themes have emerged via health problems, litigations (divorce and pater- 
nity suits) and strong alliance with labor movements of the 60s. 

Whereas Saturn is debilitated, Mars is merely ordinary, a weak endorsement for it 
to be control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 4th house does reflect, 
however, his heart ailments, vehicular problems, and fiercely loyal fan base. 


Exchange of 4th and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 4th lord has gone in the 7th house, the native will be highly learned in 
various branches of knowledge, will be apt to leave his paternal property, and 
will be akin to the dumb in an assembly. (BPHS 26:43) 


* In case the 7th lord is situated in the 4th house, the wife of the native will 
not remain under his control. He will himself be truthful, intelligent and reli- 
gious, and he will suffer from dental diseases. (BPHS 26:76) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 relationship 
from kendra houses. With this pattern between kendra lords, this yoga implies a 
certain degree of community outreach, intertwined in the realm of relationships, 
moral values and happiness. 


The native has a strong desire for education or spiritual liberation, and leaves his 
home in pursuit of it. He gets an education in sales, marketing, public relations, for- 
eign trade, or in matters relating to partnerships, contracts and agreements. 


He is happy at home, and takes pride in his property and/or vehicle(s). He owns a 
foreign car, or is involved in the trade of foreign cars. His happiness depends to a 
considerable degree on the quality (and/or quantity) of his relationships. 


His spouse is very independent, and difficult to contain within the normal confines 
of a marriage. The spouse will have a good professional reputation and be engaged 
in an occupation involving real estate, vehicles, education, or psychology. The 
spouse is comfortable and happy, although perhaps something of a workaholic. 


His mother is extroverted, educated and well-traveled. She may also be involved in 
the purchase and sale of properties. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Gregg Allman, musician; Maya Angelou, poet; Giovanni Falcone, anti-Mafia judge; 
Henry Ford Jr., entrepreneur; Michael J. Fox, actor; Tom Hanks, actor; Odetta, 
singer; Alan Oken, astrologer; Louis Pasteur, scientist; Leon Russell, musician; 
William Shatner, actor; Grace Slick, singer; Paul Theroux, writer; Jack Valenti, direc- 
tor; Dwight Yoakam, singer; Bernard Zuckerman, chess grandmaster. 


Case study 


Maya Angelou was a much-loved American sage, poet, performing artist and author 
of over 12 best-selling books. 


When she was three, her parents divorced and she was raised by her paternal grand- 
parents. At age eight she was raped by her mother’s boyfriend, who was subse- 
quently killed by her outraged uncles. Maya withdrew into isolation and remained 
mute for five years, during which time she developed a love of books. 


A devotee of dance, she performed in nightclubs and off-Broadway productions. 
She worked as a cook and prostitute. She wrote songs, worked as an editor for civil 
rights causes (with Martin Luther King and Malcolm X), wrote and produced a TV se- 
ries and published her memoirs to public acclaim. 


Multilingual as well as multi-talented, Angelou spoke six languages. She was mar- 
ried three times and had one child. She was a striking figure, standing six feet tall 
and wearing signature vibrant colors. 


She received over 50 honorary doctorates and in 1983 was named by Ladies’ Home 
Journal among the One Hundred Most Influential American Women. Bill Clinton in- 
vited her to write the 1993 inaugural poem for his administration. 


In later years she was active on the lecture circuit, giving as many as 80 talks a year. 
She was respected as a spokesperson for black people and women, and her works 
have been considered a defense of Black culture. 


Saturn in 4th house Scorpio exchanges with Mars in 7th house Aquarius. Saturn is 

strong (retrograde) but afflicted by the Rahu-Ketu axis. Mars is ordinary but in the 
company of benefics. Its association with Venus creates a Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yoga, while with Mercury it creates two Dhana Yogas. 


Post-exchange, Saturn in the 7th forms Sasha Yoga, gains dig bala, and joins two 
natural friends. In moving to the 4th, Mars forms Ruchaka Yoga. But no matter 
whether before or after exchange, four malefics continue to occupy the kendras, 
signifying a life of struggle. 

4th house themes played out in domestic hardship and emotional turmoil, includ- 
ing depression. 


7th house themes emerged via troubled relationships, including violence. At the 
same time, her role as a spokesperson for her people carried her fame far and wide. 


Whereas Mars is merely ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, and therefore qualifies as 

control planet in this exchange. Its position in the 4th may seem difficult to ratio- 
nalize until we reflect that the 4th represents one’s constituency, fans, tribe, and 

people. As such, Angelou was a spokesperson for an entire culture. 


Exchange of 4th and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* When the 4th lord happens to be placed in the 8th house, the native will be 
devoid of domestic and other comforts, will not get much paternal happiness, 
and be equal to a neuter. (BPHS 26:44) 


* When the 8th lord occupies the 4th house, the native will be deprived of 
his mother, and there can be no doubt in it that he will be devoid of a house, 
lands, and happiness, and will be a betrayer of friends. (BPHS 26:88) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 5/9 relationship 
from moksha houses. The native may appear unconventional, seeking catharsis 

via escape from the home, maternal influence, community values or conventional 
morality. 


His state of happiness is disturbed by unfortunate events. His mind is subject to 
addictions and obsessions, so he gets drawn into negative thinking and behavior. 
He suffers heartbreak, figuratively via happiness destroyed, or literally in the form 
of a heart ailment. 


His mother has difficulties, including accidents, surgeries, death in the family, 
and general misfortune. Nevertheless, she gains through speculation or games of 
chance. 


His domestic life is in a constant state of upheaval, with many changes of residence, 
renovations due to accidents, and problems with property insurance. In a similar 
vein, vehicles prove problematic. 


He has deep sexual feelings, and may receive an education or pursue a path that en- 
tails secret teachings regarding sexuality. His morality may be perverted, such that 

he commits crimes of conscience, especially of a sexual nature. He keeps aspects of 

his personality hidden, and may at times go into hiding. 


He has a strong intuition to follow a path of moksha, and foregoes many creature 
comforts, giving up property and inheritance in order to pursue his spiritual libera- 
tion. 


He has difficulty finishing his education, experiencing breaks in studies, and 
changes of direction. He acquires knowledge in the fields of psychology, parapsy- 
chology and the occult, and may write about such subjects. Suitable professions 
include research and investigation, banking and insurance, renovation and rehabili- 
tation, undertaking and estate planning. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Susan Atkins, cult killer; Jean Auel, writer; Bernardo Bertolucci, director; Beau 
Bridges, actor; John Denver, musician; Aretha Franklin, singer; André Gide, writer; 
Rex Harrison, actor; Hans Holzer, occult writer; Jay Leno, talk show host; Kate 


Millett, feminist; Spike Milligan, writer/director; Tip O'Neill, politician; J. Henri 
Poincaré, mathematician; Kiefer Sutherland, actor; John Travolta, actor; Maurice 
Utrillo, artist; King Vidor, producer. 


Case study 


Jay Leno is an American comedian and talk show host. Mildly dyslexic, he majored 
in speech during college studies, and earned his living by performing his comedy 
act at night clubs. 


Leno exemplified clean humor, as opposed to vulgar jokes which others told about 
blacks, gays and women, hiding prejudice behind comedy. He struggled for years 
to make it, watching contemporaries advance in their careers before he succeeded 
Johnny Carson as host of The Tonight Show. 


He has a fleet of over 169 classic cars and 117 motorcycles. He loves to repair me- 
chanical things and has said that if he hadn't made it as a comedian, he would have 
become an auto mechanic. 


After giving testimony in the 2005 trial of Michael Jackson over allegations of child 
molestation, Leno was banned from telling jokes about Jackson, but exploited a 
legal loophole so other stand-in comedians could take the stage and crack jokes. 
During the 2007-08 writers’ strike, he was accused of violating guidelines by writing 
his own monologue. 

After orchestrating his “retirement” in 2008 from The Tonight Show in favor of 
Conan O’Brien, Leno and NBC reneged on the arrangement, much to the chagrin of 
O'Brien and his fans. As a result, Leno was viewed as a bad guy and seriously ma- 
ligned in the press. 


MakR 290! 


5 
Mo 1352 
Sak 1940 


The Sun in 4th house Aries exchanges with Mars in 8th house Leo. The two planets 
are mutual friends and both strong — the Sun exalted, Mars retrograde. Mars is part 
of a 5-planet complex in the 2nd/8th house axis that allows it to directly participate 
in an impressive array of yogas: Chandra Mangala with the Moon, a Dharma Karma 
Adhipati Yoga with each of Venus and Saturn, and a Dhana Yoga with each of them 
again. 


4th house themes are strongly evident in his vast collection of vehicles, while the 
8th house theme arises from his repair and restoration work. This is perhaps as 
good an example as any by which to remind readers that, although an individual 
may be famous for one thing, an exchange pattern in the chart may reveal some- 
thing entirely different, more personal than professional. 


For instance, consider Leno’s dubious ethics, which are muddied by the exchange 
of 4th and 8th lords. Despite being a proponent of clean jokes for the sake of his 
fans and the public, Leno has always taken care of #1. His exploitation of a legal 


loophole during the embargo on Michael Jackson jokes, his violation of the writers’ 
strike guidelines, and his reversal on surrendering the host slot of The Tonight Show 
to O’Brien all point to someone who has a hard time letting go. 


Whereas Mars is just ordinary, the Sun is exalted and therefore qualifies as the con- 
trol planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 4th, however mundane, evokes 
his great love of cars. 


Exchange of 4th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 4th lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will be loved by one 
and all, be a devotee of God, virtuous, honorable and blessed with every kind 
of happiness. (BPHS 26:45) 


* If the 9th lord is situated in the 4th house, the native will be endowed with 
the happiness of having houses and conveyances, will have all kinds of wealth, 
and be devoted to his mother. (BPHS 26:100) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) wherein the 
lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship. Although this person may experience moral 
dilemmas, especially within a marital relationship, he eventually resolves his diffi- 
culties by deferring to his moral compass. 


The native will have high moral standards, and be a model of ethical behavior for 

those among his circle. Such a person always follows his higher conscience, for his 
desire is to approach God. He is respected, achieves a certain reputation within his 
milieu, and enjoys the comforts of his status. 


His parents are spiritual, well-educated and well-traveled. His father experiences 
setbacks in life. His mother is vulnerable to common ailments or disease. 


He benefits through real estate, vehicles, domestic articles and things beneath the 
ground. The home displays religious objects, or a portion of the home is dedicated 
to a spiritual practice. Alternatively, the home is located near a religious establish- 
ment, or has the appearance of such an establishment. 

He is fond of foreign travel, and pursues an advanced degree during the course of 
his travels. He is adept in philosophy, law and spiritual subjects. He is close to his 
teacher or guru, and may himself become a teacher. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Willy Brandt, politician; Keith Haring, artist; Kevin Kline, actor; Charles Lamb, 
essayist; Andreas Papandreou, politician; Simone Signoret, actress; Aaron Spelling, 
producer; Lana Turner, actress; Gianni Versace, designer. 


Case study 

Lana Turner, an American film and television actress, was discovered at age 16. With 
over 50 films to her credit, most of her roles were due to her elegance, poise and the 
ability to project promiscuous sensuality. 

She was the only daughter of teenaged parents who struggled to make ends meet. 
Her father was murdered when she was nine. Her mother worked 80 hours a week 
as a beautician. 


Her role in The Postman Always Rings Twice established her as a serious actor. She 


later received an Academy Award nomination for her role in the movie Peyton Place. 


Turner’s personal life was as melodramatic as her films. She was married eight 
times (twice to the same man), and always in and out of sexual escapades. She once 
commented, "My goal was to have one husband and seven children, but it turned 
out the other way around.” 

She had one abortion and several miscarriages, made more than one suicide at- 


tempt, and was involved in several lawsuits. Her daughter stabbed one of Lana’s 
lovers to death. 


She smoked and drank heavily, had throat cancer twice, and at one time weighed 
only 95 pounds. After her final divorce in 1969 she claimed she had no desire to 
marry again and was celibate for the rest of her life. She stopped drinking, ate or- 
ganic food, and embraced a spiritual life. 


Saturn in Virgo 4th exchanges with Mercury in Aquarius 9th. Saturn is strong be- 
cause retrograde. Saturn forms a Viparita Yoga with Mars and Venus, since all three 
are trik lords in sambandha, yet involve no other planets. 

Lagnesh Mercury mutually aspects Jupiter, thus forming two Dharma Karma Ad- 
hipati Yogas, while its association with the Moon creates a Dhana Yoga. 

Whether pre-exchange from the 4th or post-exchange from the 9th, Saturn contin- 
ues to aspect the 6th, thus contributing to Turner’s frequent health problems. 


4th/9th house themes (especially note the 6/8 relationship) played out in struggles 
and misfortunes for both parents. Legal disputes regarding her estate might also be 
read into this, since she left her maid the bulk of her fortune despite a legal chal- 
lenge from her daughter. 


The 9th house theme of spiritual pursuits really only emerged in her twilight years 
after she had exhausted her material side. In 1980, Turner had what she referred to 
as a “spiritual awakening” and became a devout Roman Catholic. 


Whereas Mercury is ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, thus making it the control planet 
for this exchange. Its placement in the 4th, from where it aspects the lagna and 
forms a complex Viparita Yoga with Mars and Venus, speaks to her emotional discon- 
tent and the general unhappiness in their life 


Exchange of 4th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 4th lord occupy the 10th house, the native will enjoy royal hon- 
ors, be an alchemist, be extremely pleased, will have pleasures, and will be 
conqueror of his five senses. (BPHS 26:46) 


* Should the 10th lord be situated in the 4th house, the native will enjoy 
happiness, be devoted to his mother and be interested in her welfare, will have 
conveyances, lands and houses, be virtuous and wealthy. (BPHS 26:112) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 7/7 relationship 
from kendra houses. Note that the sambandha between these two lords in mutual 
aspect further strengthens each other's significations. 


The native’s moral standards are made known within his social milieu, such that his 
ethical conduct becomes a subject for public scrutiny and commentary. On balance, 
his standards are consistent with those of the public at large. He is interested and 
involved in politics. He may identify strongly with his community, his constituency, 
his country — and vice versa — thus qualifying him for a spokesperson or leadership 
role. 


His mother is successful in business, enjoys an excellent reputation within her social 
circle and may be well-traveled. However, she may not enjoy a long life span. 


He gets an education related to business, eg, degrees in commerce or finance, or a 
license in real estate. He is inclined to a career in agriculture, mining, construction, 
hotel management, car dealerships, real estate, etc, but also professions such as ed- 
ucation, architecture, psychology, social work and government. 


His home may be used as his place of business, for significant social functions, or 
enjoy some status as a heritage site. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Napoleon Bonaparte |, Emperor; Bernadette Brady, astrologer; José Ferrer, actor; 
Jean Luc Godard, director; Guglielmo Marconi, scientist; Michel de Nostradamus, 
prophet; Auguste Renoir, artist; lvana Trump, socialite; Kurt Waldheim, politician. 


Case study 

Ivana Trump is a former world-class skier with a Master’s degree. Born in Czecho- 

slovakia, she immigrated to Canada and for a time was a model for several top fur 
companies. She moved to New York to help promote the 1976 Montreal Olympics 
and there met Donald Trump. 


She became heavily involved in Trump's extensive hotel empire, was appointed Vice 


President of Interior Design, and awarded Hotelier of the Year in 1990. After Donald 
Trump's affair with Marla Maples became public, Ivana sued for divorce, pursuing 

a larger settlement than had been outlined in their pre-nuptial agreement. Aside 
from her marriage to Trump, there had been one husband earlier, and two later, but 
none that lasted. 


Subsequent to her divorce from Trump, she developed lines of clothing, fashion 
jewelry, and beauty products that have been successfully sold through television 
shopping channels. She has also written several bestselling books, and penned a di- 
vorce advice column. 


A cameo role in the movie Hollywood Wives pretty much sums up her philosophy, 
“Remember girls: don’t get mad, get everything.” 


The Sun in 4th house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 10th house Leo. The two 
are not only in exchange but aspecting each other’s own sign, which tends to fur- 
ther highlight the themes of their respective houses. The fact that they're both 
malefics and mutual enemies lends tension to that age-old dilemma of home versus 
career, private life versus public. 


Pre-exchange, the Sun and Saturn each form a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga with 
lagnesh and bhumikaraka Mars. Saturn is strong because retrograde. Post-ex- 
change, the Sun gains dig bala. 

Since both exchange planets continue to interact with lagnesh Mars, which disposits 
the Moon in the ascendant, this explains Ivana’s formidable and feisty personality. 
4th house themes are very evident in her career as hotelier, while 10th house 
themes are equally dominant as socialite, spokesperson and columnist. 

Whereas the Sun is ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, making it the control planet for 
this exchange. Although she’s enjoyed success in her own right, Ivana’s essential 
claim to fame was as a socialite, which is reflected in Saturn’s position in the 10th. 


Exchange of 4th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 4th lord has gone in the 11th house, the native will be obsessed 
with fear of secret disease, be liberal, virtuous, charitable and helpful to oth- 
ers, (BPHS 26:47) 


* In case the 11th lord is situated in the 4th house, the native will have gains 
from maternal relatives, will make pilgrimages, and will possess happiness of 
house and lands. (BPHS 26:124) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship. 
Because of this dynamic, the native may experience some struggle in the realization 
of his happiness, hopes and dreams, but ultimately his ambitions are fulfilled. 


The native enjoys financial gains from his mother. Although she experiences many 
setbacks and reversals in life, including accidents and surgeries, she is often en- 
gaged in social networks and enjoys profitable ventures. She may enjoy easy access 
to capital. 


He shares his home and vehicles with his friends, who are a source of comfort and 
happiness. His friends are educated, interested in a spiritual life, and have good eth- 
ical standards. 


His elder siblings get a good education and are involved in careers such as teaching, 
real estate, property management, and agriculture. However, his elder siblings may 
be prone to common ailments or disease. 


He establishes goals for his education, and is successful in completing them as per 
his plans. Money spent on education turns out to be a good investment, and pre- 
pares him for success in the entertainment or hospitality fields. He earns money 
from the sale of property, vehicles and home articles. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Jean-Paul Belmondo, actor; Dirk Bogarde, actor; David Cassidy, singer/actor; Anton 
Chekhov, writer; Johnny Dundee, boxer; King Farouk, Egyptian royalty; Helen 
Frankenthaler, artist; Frederic Van Norstrand, astrologer. 


Case study 

King Farouk, the last king of Egypt, was educated in England and ruled 1937-1952. 
His reign began with promise but ended in scandal. Farouk loved a glamorous life- 
style. Although owning vast properties, dozens of palaces and hundreds of cars, he 
often went to Europe for shopping sprees. 

His interests leaned away from politics and toward fast cars and women. His 
personal vehicle was a red 1947 Bentley. Married three times, he had dozens of 
mistresses. 


His appetite was legendary. Breakfast was 30 eggs with toast and sweet tea. After a 
dinner of lobster, steak or lamb, he’d snack on caviar or ice cream. It’s said that he 
ate 600 oysters a week. Although he never drank alcohol, the slender boy-king be- 
came a bloated gourmand who couldn't get into his sports car. 


He had a lifelong habit of collecting. He owned a 94-carat diamond and other jew- 


els. He amassed one of the world’s finest coin collections, and was reputed to own a 
huge collection of pornography. 


With Farouk regarded a corrupt playboy, an army coup in 1952 forced his abdica- 
tion. Exiled in Rome, he indulged himself in every debauchery, growing increasingly 
obese, “a stomach with a head.” He rented entire hotels for parties and gambled 
with pathological abandon in Monte Carlo. At restaurants he’d literally order ev- 
erything on the menu. While stuffing himself one night, a heart attack killed him at 
age 45. 


* 


The Sun in 4th house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 11th house Leo. Saturn 
is strong because retrograde. Pre-exchange, the Sun is involved in no other yoga, 
while Saturn’s opposition to Mercury creates a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga. 


Both pre- and post-exchange, Saturn aspects the ascendant, the 10th lord Moon and 
2nd lord Mars, thus ruining his reputation through his dissolute lifestyle, and his 
health through bad diet. $ 


4th house themes are evident in the initial embrace of his people (as the first Arab- 
speaking Egyptian king), and his great love of cars. 11th house themes played out 
in his over-the-top social life, and his unchecked desire to collect almost everything 
he coveted. 

(Note: in Light on Life, deFouw & Svoboda, the common significations of the 11th 
house include jewelry, vehicles, the paraphernalia of luxury, and playful sexual 
acts.) 

Whereas the Sun is ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, and therefore qualifies as the 
control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 11th house is but a sad reflec- 
tion of Farouk’s playboy lifestyle, since he accomplished nothing of political conseq 
uence in his 15-year reign except to indulge himself in luxuries and parties. 


Exchange of 4th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 4th lord is situated in the 12th house, the native will be devoid of do- 
mestic and other comforts, will have vices and be foolish and indolent. (BPHS 
26:48) 


* In the event of the 12th lord being placed in the 4th house, the native will 
be devoid of maternal happiness and will day by day have losses in respect of 
lands, conveyances and houses. (BPHS 26:136) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 5/9 relationship 
from moksha houses. Because of this relationship, the native may appear restless, 
seeking release from the confines of home, maternal influence, community values 
or conventional morality. 


The native needs lengthy periods of quiet and tranquility to find peace within his 
heart. For this reason, he takes retreats in ashrams or places of worship. Since his 
happiness depends upon his spiritual liberation, he may surrender his attachments 
to property in order to be free. He lives a vagrant life for periods of time, and is an 
advocate of the homeless. 


He is prone to illness and his health gradually suffers. His mother suffers poor 
health as well, and her longevity is poor. Nevertheless, she too undertakes foreign 
travels. 


His happiness depends upon his sexual fulfillment, and he experiences a struggle 
between his spiritual aspirations and sexual desires. He has sexual relations with a 
woman who is similar in appearance or temperament to his mother. 


Foreign travel is a major life theme. He travels in search of spiritual liberation, and 
makes his residence abroad. He pursues his education in a foreign country. He buys 
foreign property, suffers losses through property investments, or gives up a portion 
of his property to another. He owns or leases a foreign car. 


Because he is philosophically unattached, he becomes involved in charities and not- 
for-profit organizations, especially those with an international scope of operations. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Roseanne Barr, comedienne; Roberto Benigni, actor; William Burroughs, writer; 
Kirk Douglas, actor; Sandy Duncan, actress; John Ehrlichman, Presidential advisor; 
Melissa Etheridge, musician; Richard Houck, astrologer; Janis Joplin, singer; Ken 
Keyes, archetypal hippy; Thomas Merton, writer/mystic; Louis XV, King of France; 
Liz Smith, gossip columnist; Simon Wiesenthal, Nazi hunter. 


Case study 
Thomas Merton was a French-American writer, poet, monk, mystic and social critic 


whose writing reached the bestseller lists. In 1941 he entered a Trappist monastery 
in rural Kentucky and was ordained in 1949 after eight years of silence. 


He was a study in contradictions. He craved solitude, but also enjoyed the occa- 
sional drink, loved jazz, and delighted in scatological humor. He rose daily at 3:15 
AM to pray for seven hours, but once fell recklessly in love with a woman half his 
age. 

An expert Latinist, he translated all the works of the 13th-century monastic mas- 
ters. His first book, Seven Storey Mountain sold 600,000 copies in its first year, cap- 
turing readers like few books since Saint Augustine’s Confessions. A prolific writer, 
he wrote more than 70 books, mostly on spirituality, social justice and pacifism. 
His death was bizarre. During a six-month trip through Asia, the longest of his 
otherwise cloistered life, he stepped out of a shower in a cottage near Bangkok, 
reached for a fan with defective wiring and was instantly electrocuted. 


Saturn in 4th house Gemini exchanges with Mercury in 12th house Aquarius. Saturn 
is strong because retrograde. Mercury is associated with lagnesh Jupiter, a combina- 
tion that creates two Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas. This pairing of two intellectual 
planets in the 12th is further amplified by their close alignment with Rahu. 


Pre- or post-exchange, Jupiter influences both the 4th and 12th houses and their 
lords, thus reinforcing the pursuit of moksha via a cloistered life, and the sharing of 
wisdom through his prolific spiritual writings. 


The 4th/12th exchange played itself out in multiple ways: many changes of resi- 
dence throughout his childhood, time spent at French boarding schools, university 
education in England and, ultimately, immigration to America. On a more personal 
level, his mother died of stomach cancer when he was only seven. 

During his university years at Cambridge, 12th house themes emerged via a rela- 
tively dissolute lifestyle - reckless spending, nights spent drinking in jazz clubs, and 
womanizing. 

In his maturity, the 12th house revealed the other side of its coin in seclusion, 
monastic life, vows of renunciation and meditation. He also became a keen propo- 


nent of inter-faith understanding, especially Eastern religions, and engaged in dia- 
logue and correspondence with leading figures like the Dalai Lama, DT Suzuki and 
Thich Nhat Hanh. 


Ultimately, death in a foreign land is also a 4th/12th signature. 


Although Mercury is normal and Saturn is retrograde, we might in this case ques- 
tion Saturn’s eligibility to assume control of this exchange. Mercury forms two Raja 
Yogas with lagnesh Jupiter and receives further karmic thrust from Rahu, which is 
very much at home in Aquarius. Thus, Mercury’s placement in the 12th becomes the 
more appropriate signature of a monastic life. 


Exchanges involving the 5th house lord 


Exchange of 5th and 6th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 5th lord being relegated to the 6th house, the native’s son 
will be equal to his enemy, or he will die, or the native will acquire an adopted 
or a purchased son. (BPHS 26:54) 


* In the event of the 6th lord occupying the 5th house, the native’s wealth 
will be always fluctuating, he will contract enmity with his son and friend, be 
happy, selfish and kind. (BPHS 26:65) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relation- 
ship. This dynamic may cause problems with the cognitive faculties, spiritual prac- 
tices and children. 


The native lacks mental clarity and experiences intellectual obstacles that affect 
his studies. His spiritual practices are inconsistent, based upon competition and the 
desire to gain something over others, ie, spiritual materialism. He develops a sort of 
religious fanaticism and is intolerant of other faiths. 


He has health problems, the sources of which are mental or spiritual. Hypochondria 
is one possible manifestation, spiritual malaise another. The weak link is often the 
digestive system. 


In romance, he invites conflicts. He tries to gain intimacy too quickly, and treats the 
partner with hostility if things don’t go his way. He acts in an unscrupulous and self- 
serving manner, and may cheat on his partner. 


The person can experience problems having children, eg, abortions, miscarriages or 
premature illnesses terminating the child's life. Even if the person has a child, there 
is friction between them, such that real enmity may develop. If lieu of having a child 
naturally, adoption is a possibility. Children are a cause of worry on account of their 
health, although they enjoy financial success. 


He is employed in a field related to education, the entertainment industry or cre- 
ative endeavors of some sort. His investments may not pan out. He acts upon a self- 
defeating intuition, and sustains losses despite repeated attempts to profit. His en- 
emies are numerous, and they interfere with his luck in life. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Susan Atkins, cult killer; Bjorn Borg, tennis player; E.E. Cummings, poet; Otto Hahn, 
scientist; Jeddu Krishnamurti, guru; Elisabeth Kubler-Ross, psychiatrist; Alphee 
Lavoie, astrologer; Gordon Lightfoot, musician; Jackie Mason, comedian; Matthew 
McConaughey, actor; John Milton, poet; Michael Munkasey, astrologer; Kenny 
Rogers, entertainer; Murray Rose, Olympic swimmer; David Souter, Supreme Court 


jurist; William Styron, writer; Jerry West, basketball player. 


Case study 


Elisabeth Kubler-Ross was a Swiss psychiatrist and author who became famous for 
her book, On Death and Dying, chronicling her work with terminal patients. Edu- 
cated first as a doctor, against the objections of her father, she later became very 
critical of the medical profession. 


She was an ardent hiker, mountain climber and skier. She admitted to a short fuse, 
great highs and lows and an overly idealistic nature. She had an excellent memory, 
nearly total recall, and was a workaholic. 


She had several out-of-the-body experiences during her lifetime, was interested in 
the occult, and through her counseling of the terminally ill, became expert in the 
five stages of grief: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. 


She was the recipient of 20 honorary degrees and taught over 125,000 students in 
death and dying courses at colleges, seminaries, medical schools, hospitals, and so- 
cial-work institutions. 

One of her ambitions was to build a hospice for children with AIDS. But when she 
announced in Virginia that she was adopting 20 HIV-infected babies, her house was 
burned to the ground and her pet llama was shot. 

Despite four miscarriages, she had one son and one daughter. She suffered a series 
of strokes that left her confined to a wheelchair until her death. 


The Moon in 5th house Gemini exchanges with Mercury in 6th house Cancer. The 
Moon is weak, being in the last tithi before the new moon. Mercury is ordinary but 
aspected by a powerful (exalted and retrograde) Saturn. 

The themes of the 5th/6th exchange were revealed in personal health difficulties, 
including a near-death experience due to a bowel obstruction. Four out of six preg- 
nancies resulted in miscarriages. 

The 5th/6th exchange also reflected her compassion for the sick, especially chil- 
dren, as evidenced in her work with HIV-infected infants, which ambition brought 


her into conflict with her local community. Even her pet became collateral damage 
in this battle (the 6th represents pets, and the Sth is their loss). 


No stranger to 6th house conflict, she was known as being abrasive and critical of 
the medical profession. She was nonetheless acknowledged as a compassionate 
caregiver, providing assistance in their dying moments to over 20,000 terminal 
patients. 

The Moon is weak because it is dark and waning within one tithi of the Sun, while 
Mercury is simply ordinary. As such, it can be considered the control planet for 
this exchange. Its placement in the 6th house is entirely consistent with her role as 
caregiver to the terminally ill. Note also that the 6th is the 12th (surrender) for the 
other. 


Exchange of 5th and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 5th lord is situated in the 7th house, the native will be tolerant of all 
religions and very religious, endowed with progenic happiness, and be helpful 
to others. (BPHS 26:55) 


* Should the 7th lord occupy the 5th house, the native will be a man of honor, 
gifted with all the virtues, always delighted, and endowed with all kinds of 
wealth. (BPHS 26:77) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) wherein the 
lords are in a mutual 3/11 relationship. Because of this pattern, there is bias for 
mental preoccupation with relationships of all kinds, whether social, professional 
or intimate. 

The native is spiritually inclined, travels to seek enlightenment, and is tolerant of 
other faiths. He is clever in business, and succeeds in fields of speculation, sports, 
entertainment, and anything to do with children. He is a good deal-maker, and is 
skilled in forging contracts and agreements. 


He has an active intellect, often has sex on his mind, and is very attracted to 
ephemeral relationships. He develops a love affair during the course of his educa- 
tion. He finds (monogamous) marital life a strain, and is frequently separated from 
his spouse and children. 

His spouse is active, intelligent, spiritual and youthful. The spouse succeeds through 
her own efforts, but her longevity is not good. His children are adventurous, ath- 
letic, artistic, interested in travel and productive in earning a good income. 


This exchange favors careers in political diplomacy, talent representation, and cre- 
ative collaboration of all sorts. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Warren Beatty, actor; Hector Berlioz, composer; Judy Blume, writer; Roger Corman, 
director; Christopher Darden, attorney; Daniel Day-Lewis, actor; Richard |Idemon, 
astrologer; Lindsay Lohan, actor; Bette Bao Lord, writer; Anne McCaffrey, writer; 
James Earl Ray, assassin; Curtis Sliwa, Guardian Angel; Marcia Starck, astrologer; 
Duke of Wellington, militarist; Malcolm X, political activist. 


Case study 


Warren Beatty is an American actor, producer, screenwriter and director. Strikingly 
handsome with a style that is self-consciously cool and opaque, he was the classic 


screen idol of his day. He has been nominated for 14 Oscars, including his perfor- 
mance in 1967 for Bonnie and Clyde. He won the Oscar as Best Director in 1981 for 
Reds. 

Although known more for his acting than his writing, Beatty was nominated four 
times for Best Screenplay, which he received three times. He is the only person to 
have been nominated for best producer, director, writer and actor in the same film, 
both for Heaven Can Wait and Reds. 


Aside from his movie career, Beatty has achieved the dubious reputation of having 
been a notorious womanizer and lover to a large number of Hollywood and society 
women. A partial list includes Cher, Brigitte Bardot, Elle Macpherson, Goldie Hawn, 
Jackie Onassis, Joan Collins, Joni Mitchell, Madonna and Mary Tyler Moore. 


Jupiter in 5th house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 7th house Pisces. Jupiter is 
debilitated and forms no other yoga. Saturn is associated with lagnesh Mercury to 
form two Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas. 


The 5th/7th exchange played out in an extremely active sex life, wherein this notion 
of sex-on-the-brain (5th house mind, 7th house sex) is pretty much epitomized in 
Warren Beatty’s pre-marital lifestyle. 


The same exchange can also be used to explain his highly creative role in the course 
of his movie career, whether as a writer involved in multiple projects (many of 
which fell by the wayside), as a director marshaling creative talent, or more generi- 
cally, in his sometimes-spotty record as producer in collaboration with many of Hol- 
lywood’s luminaries of the day, in front of or behind the camera. 

Jupiter is debilitated but Saturn has dig bala, thus qualifying it as the control planet 


for this exchange. Certainly its placement in the 7th house highlights his infamous 
love life prior to marriage. 


Exchange of 5th and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 5th lord being relegated to the 8th house, the native will 
have less progenic happiness, will be troubled by cough and pulmonary or res- 
piratory diseases, be given to anger and be devoid of happiness. (BPHS 26:56) 


* If the 8th lord happens to fall in the 5th house, the native will be dull witted. 
He will have a few children and be long-lived and wealthy. (BPHS 26:89) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 relation- 
ship. Because of this dynamic, mental stress and trauma arises. 


The native's purva punya (karma from the previous life) renders a dulled intellect, 
such that his mind occupies a tamasik state, incapable of contemplating a higher 
order of things. As a result of flawed thinking, he commits sins, first through his 
thoughts, then through actions that lead to his self-undoing. 


His mind is often concerned, even obsessed, with sexual subjects. He may have an 
unusual, even aberrant, sexuality. He may have suffered sexual abuse as a child. He 
suffers psychosomatic ills, wherein the mind itself is the primary cause of feeling 
ill-at-ease. Anger is a root cause of many ills. 


His love affairs are generally unhappy, falling into a sort of love/hate relationship, 
where an all-or-nothing attitude prevails. 


He experiences difficulties with respect to children, eg, abortion, miscarriage, ill- 
ness, accidents. Even if his children are healthy, there are problems in their lives, or 
in his relationship with them. In extreme cases, there may be death of children. He 
receives no benefits through inheritance, although his children do. His children may 
be involved in the purchase and sale of vehicles or properties. 


He is interested in esoteric or occult subjects. Mysteries, death, and the after-life are 
fascinations for him. He may study subjects so far removed from the contemporary 
that they seem "dead", eg, the so-called dead languages, archaeology, antiques, oc- 
cult subjects, etc. 


He makes bad investments, suffers irrevocable losses, and goes into debt. Gambling 
may become an obsession. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Johann Elert Bode, astronomer; Honoré Daumier, artist; Roy Firebrace, astrologer; 
Amy Fisher, attempted murderer; Jean Harlow, actress; Lena Horne, singer; Jo- 
hannes Kepler, astronomer; Sam Peckinpah, director; Harold Pinter, playwright; 
Jane Roberts, mystic/author; Dennis Rodman, basketball player; Diana Ross, singer; 
lan Douglas Smith, politician; Jackie Stewart, race car driver. 


Case study 


Dennis Rodman is a retired American professional basketball forward, who played 
for the Detroit Pistons, Chicago Bulls and other NBA teams. He has also been a 
professional wrestler and an actor in several reality series. His visibility as a pro- 
fessional athlete was further leveraged by his exhibitionistic attire and personal 
adornment, including wearing articles of women’s clothing on the basketball court. 


Rodman experienced an unhappy childhood, thinks about death a lot and has 
seriously contemplated suicide at least once. Post-NBA, his career has lurched from 
one misadventure to another, including celebrity wrestling matches and reality 
shows. Substance abuse continues to dog him, and he’s gotten into trouble numer- 
ous times, mouthing obscenities or saying outrageous things while on camera. 


Aside from a relationship with Madonna and a very short marriage to Carmen 
Electra, his best friend has been Kim Jong Un, the boy-dictator of North Korea. Rod- 
man’s relationship with Kim Jong Un has baffled his fans and the US State Depart- 
ment alike. 


The Moon in Sth house Aries exchanges with Mars in 8th house Cancer. Both are 
weak —- the Moon within two tithis of anew moon, Mars debilitated. However, Mars 
is in mutual aspect with debilitated lagnesh Jupiter, a combination that produces 
two Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas. Mars also mutually aspects a very powerful Sat- 
urn (retrograde and in its own sign) which creates a Dhana Yoga. 


The 5th house themes are revealed in his gamesmanship, showmanship, eclectic 
love life that included a transsexual partner, and his declaration that he thinks 
like a bisexual. The 8th house of irregularities reveals itself in various peculiarities, 
whether in his choice of attire, friendships or career pursuits. 


The archetypal party animal, he’s had many altercations with the police, including 
drunk driving, domestic abuse and no less than 70 calls for police to quell loud 
noise from his raucous house parties. 

The Moon is weak because it's dark and waning, while Mars is debilitated, thus 
obliging us to consider the lesser of two evils. Despite its debility, Mars forms 
several yogas (two with lagnesh Jupiter) while the Moon forms none. Thus, Mars 
becomes the control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 8th house is rep- 
resentative of Rodman’s public role as rebellious oddball. 


Exchange of 5th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Sth lord be placed in the 9th house, the native will be a prince 
or equal to a prince, be an illustrious author, and be illustrious in his family. 
(BPHS 26:57) 


* Should the 9th lord be placed in the 5th house, the native will have the bless- 
ings of sons and good fortune. He will be devoted to his elders and teachers, 
will have fortitude, be religious and charitable and learned. (BPHS 26:101) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Raja Yoga) wherein the lords are in a mutual 
5/9 relationship from trikona houses. Because of this dynamic, the mind operates at 
a sublime level. 


The native is healthy, wealthy and prosperous. He benefits from purva punya (good 
karma from his past life), and applies it via positive actions, kriyamana karma, in 
the current lifetime. He has strong spiritual beliefs, and is a devout practitioner 

of his religion. He may be initiated into the use of mantras or some other spiritual 
practice by a guru of a high order. 


Both his father and his children are fortunate, well-educated, morally upright and 
successful. His father pursues higher studies in combination with foreign travel. His 
children gain through speculation, games of chance or creative pursuits. 


He views his romantic relationships in a spiritual context. He places less emphasis 
on the material or sexual benefits of a relationship, and more on the karmic “cor- 
rectness” of such a relationship as a vehicle for spiritual growth. He encounters 
romantic partners on distant journeys, on spiritual quests, or in academic surround- 
ings. 

His mind is naturally drawn to higher studies, and he is inclined to pursue an intel- 
lectual profession in communication or education. He is interested in writing and 
philosophy, and may author books on spiritual subjects or related travels. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Jim Clark, race car driver; Quentin Crisp, humorist; Simone de Beauvoir, writer; Em- 
peror Hirohito, Japanese royalty; Jeff Jawer, astrologer; Tad Mann, astrologer; Lyle 
Menendez, patricide/matricide; Richard Speck, mass murderer; James Woods, actor; 
Gian-Franco Zeffirelli, director. 


Case study 


Simone de Beauvoir was a French writer and existentialist teacher who enjoyed a 
literary career as a novelist, philosopher, essayist and memoirist. A political activist 
rather than a feminist, she had an unconventional morality that rejected marriage 
for women in favor of autonomy. 


She was deeply religious as a child, at one point intending to become a nun, but had 
a crisis of faith at age 14, after which she became an atheist. She was academically 
accomplished, gaining degrees in both math and philosophy before teaching at the 
Sorbonne. 


A major participant in the Existentialist movement, along with Jean Paul Sartre, her 
life companion in an open relationship, she wrote books that examined the position 
of women in a male-dominated world. She traveled extensively and wrote popular 
travel diaries about time spent in the United States and China. 


She had a number of female lovers, some of whom she shared with Sartre. The 
nature of these relationships, some of which began while she was a professor, later 
led to her suspension from teaching at the Sorbonne. 


The Moon in 5th house Pisces exchanges with Jupiter in 9th house Cancer. The two 
are natural benefics and sattvik planets. The Moon is associated with lagnesh Mars, 
which creates both a Chandra Mangala Yoga and a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga. 


Jupiter is very strong, being both retrograde and exalted, and from the 9th enjoys a 
mutual aspect with Venus, thus creating a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga. 


Whether pre- or post-exchange, Jupiter bestows its influence on all three of the 
lagna, lagnesh Mars and the Moon, thus bolstering her reputation as an archetypal 
woman of the modern era. Furthermore, with all three dharma lords remaining 

in dharma houses, her “canonization” as a feminist role model was more or less 
assured. 

The 5th house themes are revealed through her prodigious intellect, eg, degrees in 
both math and philosophy and in her authorship of several books, both fiction and 
non-fiction, which garnered literary awards and popular acclaim. 

The 9th house themes were revealed through academia (she taught at the Sorbonne 
for 12 years), her publishing career and her increasing profile as an existential theo- 
rist for women’s liberation and the feminist movement. 

The Moon is ordinary while Jupiter is both exalted and retrograde, thus clinching its 
role as control planet for this exchange. Its position in the 9th house is a classic sig- 
nature for an academic and philosopher. 


Exchange of 5th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the Sth lord occupy the 10th house, the native will be blessed with 
Raj yoga (governmental favor), and various pleasures and be very illustrious. 
(BPHS 26:58) 


* in the event of the 10th lord being placed in the 5th house, the native will be 
endowed with all kinds of learning, be always cheerful, wealthy and be blessed 
with sons. (BPHS 26:113) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) wherein the 
lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship. Because of this pattern, we get a sense of the 
mind really being “put to work” in the name of professional pursuits. 


The native enjoys a high degree of luck in his career and is fortunate in achieving his 
aspirations for success, reputation and social status. He has an intellectual profes- 
sion, and succeeds in government, law, general management, public administration 
and the investment industry. 


His children are successful in their careers, but are prone to getting into situations 
of debt and/or litigation. They are also a source of worry on account of their health. 


His intellectual skills are somehow put on public display, eg, through an artistic 
profession such as author, actor or other public performer. His writing skills are 
often applied to corporate purposes: public relations, speechwriting, annual re- 
ports, business plans, and legal contracts. 


He may exercise a flair for dramatics or showmanship in some aspect of a public 
career. This could favor professions as diverse as politician, news anchor, motiva- 
tional speaker or sports commentator. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, basketball player; Charles E.O. Carter, astrologer; Hillary 
Clinton, politician; André Courreges, designer; Jeff Green, astrologer; Sybil Leek, 
astrologer; Robert Mapplethorpe, photographer; Marcel Marceau, mime; Josef 
Mengele, Nazi doctor; Vaslav Nijinski, ballet dancer; Philip Roth, writer; Zucchero, 
singer. 


Case study 


Hillary Clinton is an American attorney, politician and prominent member of the 
Democrat party. From the time she was president of her high school class, she 
brought home academic honors. Socially conscious, she was always a shrewd and 
capable organizer, a graduate of Yale Law School. 


Over the years she’s been First Lady to President Bill Clinton, the first female Sena- 
tor elected to represent the State of New York, and the US Secretary of State under 


the Obama administration. As Secretary of State, she visited more countries than 
any other predecessor. 


The National Law Journal has twice listed her as one of the 100 most influential 
lawyers in America. She's the only First Lady to have been subpoenaed (for the 
Whitewater investigation), and the only First Lady to have ever run for office. Over 
the course of Bill Clinton's role as Governor of Arkansas and President of the USA, 
she has endured both the Gennifer Flowers and Monica Lewinsky scandals, main- 
taining a stoic public persona despite privately engaging in loud fights with her er- 
rant husband. 

She has authored five books and become a shining example, both of grace under 
pressure and what a woman can accomplish in public service. As of April 2015, she 
has announced her candidacy for the 2016 Presidential elections. 


The Moon in 5th house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 10th house Cancer. Pre- 
exchange, Saturn forms both a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga and a Dhana Yoga with 
a mixed-condition Mars (dig bala but neecha). 


Pre- or post-exchange, that debilitated Mars influences both the 5th and 10th 
houses and their lords, thus provoking both grudging admiration for Clinton's intel- 
ligence and resistance to her confrontational positions. 


The 5th house themes are revealed in her populist appeal, her authorship, and her 
devotion to her daughter Chelsea. The Sth also represents ministerial roles, which 
she has fulfilled in one capacity or another throughout her career. 


The 10th house themes play out in her various government positions, her high 
socio-political profile and her strong advocacy of Democrat principles both at home 
and abroad. The presence of that mixed-condition Mars, troubling whichever of 

the exchange planets share the 10th with it, might in part explain the scandals that 
have dogged her public life. 


Government involvement itself is a combined influence of 5th (ministerial), 9th 
(legislative) and 10th (public) house roles, and this yoga invokes two of them. 


The Moon and Saturn are both ordinary, so there is no obvious control planet for 


this exchange. That leaves us with coequal houses - the 5th for governmental min- 
istry, the 10th for her social status. If push came to shove, we could favor Saturn 


because it forms two yogas with Mars, even though it might only highlight her 
checkered reputation. 


Exchange of 5th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 5th lord occupies the 11th house, the native will be learned, be 
dear to the people, be an illustrious author, be very skillful, and be endowed 
with many sons and wealth. (BPHS 26:59) 


* lf the 11th lord is placed in the 5th house, the native’s children will be happy, 
educated and virtuous. He himself will be religious and happy. (BPHS 26:125) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dhana Yoga) wherein the lords are in a mu- 
tual 7/7 relationship. Note that the sambandha between these two lords in mutual 
aspect further strengthens each other's significations. 


The native is an eternal optimist, indulging in anticipation of dreams to be fulfilled. 
He is preoccupied with earning money. He pursues an education in a related field, 
such as commerce or finance, and uses his knowledge for further profit. 


His children earn wealth in the entertainment or sports fields, although their life 
spans may be shorter than average. They are fond of travel. 


His friends or elder siblings are intellectual, creative and spiritual. They help the 
native by offering advice on investments, or making introductions within their net- 
work. The elder sibling is likely to have a short life span. 


The native gains from lotteries, gambling, horse races, and stock market specula- 
tion. He may work as an investment advisor, stockbroker, bookie, or casino oper- 

ator. His considerable writing skills may be applied to the fields of commerce and 
entertainment, organizational and community activities, or politics. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Enrico Caruso, opera singer; Marc Garneau, astronaut; Victor Hugo, writer; Edna 
O’Brien, writer; Maritha Pottenger, astrologer; Rudolph Steiner, philosopher; Cat 
Stevens, musician; Douglas Wilder, politician; Vladimir Zhirinovsky, politician. 


Case study 


Victor Hugo was a French writer, poet, dramatist, novelist, essayist, painter, archi- 
tect and critic - an eclectic genius who was also a politically active humanitarian. 
His most famous works include The Hunchback of Notre Dame and Les Miserables. 


He wrote his first play at age 14. After a period of extreme poverty, he was awarded 
an annual pension by Louis XVIII. He went on to become the most prolific French 
writer of the 19th century, writing 100 lines of verse or 20 pages of prose each day, 
many of his works criticizing social and political injustices of the day. 


Hugo was elected to the French Academy and became a member of the National 
Assembly. In his 81st year, the street of his residence was renamed Avenue Victor 
Hugo. 

He was married but also had mistresses throughout his life. Out of his four children, 
one daughter went insane and another drowned. A lusty man, he recorded his many 
sexual encounters up until seven weeks before his death. 


He was one of the most famous men in the world at that time and was a millionaire 
when he died. The day of his funeral, crowds were so vast that 10,000 police were 
needed to hold them back. Drunken bodies littered the Champs-Elysées. Even the 
brothels were closed. 


The Sun in 5th house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 11th house Leo. These two 
malefics are mutual enemies but, while occupying each other’s sign, aspect their 
own. The Sun is ordinary while Saturn is strong through retrogression. 


Whether before or after exchange, the Sun and Saturn both continue to be in 
association or mutual aspect with lagnesh Venus, which generates a Dhana Yoga 
through the Sun, and two Dharma-Karma Adhipati Yogas through Saturn. Indepen- 
dently, the Sun in mutual aspect with Saturn generates another Dhana Yoga. 


The 5th house themes are exemplified by his enormous creative output, his 
amorous nature throughout life and the tragic deaths of two daughters, one of 
which permanently scarred him. 


The 11th house themes played out via his active involvement in social causes of the 
day, including his leadership of a literary rebellion called the Romantic Movement, 
his participation in the National Assembly, and his later appointment as a senator. 
The Sun is ordinary while Saturn is retrograde, thus making it the control planet for 
this exchange. Its occupation of the 11th house invokes the essential humanitarian- 
ism for which Hugo was much loved. 


Exchange of Sth and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 5th lord having fallen in the 12th house, the native is 
bereft of the happiness of having his own sons. He will have an adopted or 
purchased son. (BPHS 26:60) 


* Should the 12th lord occupy the 5th house, the native will be bereft of sons 
and learning. He will spend money and also make pilgrimages to beget a son. 
(BPHS 26:137) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship. 
Because of this dynamic, the native experiences delusions. 


The native is naturally introspective, but with a tendency to daydream, so he may 
have difficulty functioning in the real world. He lacks peace of mind, and has a trou- 
bled dream life. His logic is faulty. He is deceptive, or experiences confusion in deal- 
ing with others. 


He dreams of liberation, or moksha, but lacks the mental discipline to pursue a 
spiritual path. Mantra, meditation and other spiritual practices don’t come easily to 
him. 

He thinks a lot about sex but is sexually ambivalent. Therefore, he experiences 
unconscious desires for partners who are unsuited by virtue of disposition, gender, 
availability, etc. He may fear real intimacy, and end up forming relationships with 
people at a distance so as to avoid regular close contact. Attraction to foreigners is a 
typical occurrence. 


There are barriers to progeny. The person may be afraid to have children, but even 
when the desire is there, there are delays, miscarriages or outright denial. As an al- 
ternative, the person may adopt. There are worries on account of children, and poor 
rapport between them. Even if the relationship is sound, such a person's children 
find it difficult to become settled in life. 


He has problems with his investments and is more likely to generate losses than 
profits. As a consequence, he worries a lot. He has no particular aptitude for sports, 
and has a fear of public performance. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Lynn Anderson, singer; Stephen Arroyo, astrologer; Fred Astaire, dancer; Pieter 
Botha, politician; L. Ron Hubbard, Scientologist; Annie Lennox, singer; Dick Mar- 
tin, comedian; Alfred de Musset, playwright; Pablo Picasso, artist; Susan St. James, 
actress. 


Case study 
Pablo Picasso was a Spanish artist who lived most of his life in France. He's consid- 


ered to be the most original and influential visual artist of the early 20th century. 
His Herculean output, estimated at 50,000 individual works of art, made him a bil- 
lionaire at his death. 


The eldest of three children, Pablo is said to have been born dead, “awakened” 
when a visitor blew cigar smoke in his face and made him cry. As a child, he was sur- 
rounded by females, learned macho behavior early, and ultimately became a first- 
class manipulator of women. 


He was a child prodigy and once said, “I never drew like a child. When | was 12, | 
drew like Raphael.” He discovered bohemian life in his late teens, and was rumored 
to have had a homosexual relationship with a gypsy boy at age 17. 


At age 20, Picasso set up a studio in Paris and began signing his work with his 
mother’s maiden name. Living in total poverty, he worked far into the night, pro- 
ducing museum quality paintings. 

With a roving eye and a sexual appetite that bordered on gluttony, he married twice 
and engaged in multiple affairs. Beauty and relative youth were the only consistent 
qualities he desired in women. In his 60s his sexual gluttony became obsessive. 


Mercury in 5th house Scorpio exchanges with Mars in 12th house Gemini. Mercury, 
an enemy of Mars, is associated with the dark and debilitated lagnesh Moon, and 
aligned with the Rahu-Ketu axis. Mercury forms no productive yoga, neither with 
the Moon nor Jupiter. Mars is isolated in the 12th, aspected only by a debilitated 
Saturn. 


Whether pre- or post-exchange, Mars influences (along with Saturn) the 12th house 
of bed pleasures, thus invoking an image of a satyr at work and play. 

The 5th house themes were reflected in his staggering artistic output, his cavalier 
attitude towards both lovers and children, and his stomach ulcers. 

The 12th house themes played out primarily in sexual obsession, to such a degree 
that it pervaded his art, wherein several works feature an aged dwarf-like artist rav- 
ishing his beautiful young models. 


The extraordinary aspect of Picasso's chart is that he had four debilitated planets 


and very few yogas. Aside from the Moon forming Raja Yoga with Rahu, and a 
Dharma-Karma Adhipati Yoga with Jupiter, the 5th/12th Parivartana Yoga is per- 
haps the one combination that epitomized his life. 


Mercury and Mars are both ordinary, tainted by the influence of a debilitated 
planet, and form no other yoga. Therefore, we might say there is no control planet 
for this exchange. Thus, we're left with a coequal influence of two houses - the 5th 
for Picasso’s enormous creativity, and the 12th for the sexuality that pervaded both 
his lifestyle and art. 


Exchanges involving the 6th house lord 


Exchange of 6th and 7th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 6th lord is situated in the 7th house, the native will be devoid of 
happiness through wedlock, be famous, virtuous, honorable, adventurous and 
wealthy. (BPHS 26:67) 


* If the 7th lord is placed in the 6th house, the native’s wife will be sickly or the 
native is inimical towards her, he is himself given to anger and remains devoid 
of happiness. (BPHS 26:78) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relation- 
ship. Because of this dynamic, the yoga typically plays out in flawed relationships. 


The native experiences much open opposition, in the form of competitors or ene- 
mies who create trouble in his life. Professionally, this suggests a career related to 
defense, police, or security work. Alternatively, he may work as a lawyer, mediator, 
or paralegal in the justice system. 


He experiences fluctuations in the state of his health, particularly the kidneys. He 
has problems with his sexual organs, externally via injury or rash, or internally 
via deformation. His sexual performance is affected, such that he is physically ex- 
hausted through too much sex, or incapable of performing. 


His spouse is passionate and adversarial. Marriage is a constant strain, with regular 
conflict on an emotional, verbal and perhaps physical level. In due course, separa- 
tion may be the ultimate outcome. Alternatively, the spouse may be unhealthy, with 
frequent illnesses and complaints, both real and imagined. The spouse makes poor 
investments, or is taken advantage of in some way, such that their finances suffer. 


The native or his spouse may work as a vet or animal caregiver, but as likely as not, 
one of them will simply feel a very strong attachment to pets, such that the animal 
becomes almost as important as the spouse. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Les Aspin, politician; Berndt Andreas Baader, anarchist; Robert A. Bloch, writer; Pat 
Boone, singer; Jack Bruce, musician; James Caan, actor; Nick Campion, astrologer; 
Dennis Hopper, actor; Kitaro, musician; Jean Monnet, economist; Czar Nicholas Il, 
Russian royalty; Tom Paxton, folksinger; Dane Rudhyar, astrologer; David Sanborn, 
musician; Terrence Stamp, actor; Natalie Wood, actress. 


Case study 


Dane Rudhyar was a French-American astrologer, one of the most notable and 
respected of the 20th century. He was the pioneer of modern transpersonal astrol- 


ogy, his best known work being The Astrology of Personality. 


He was called a modern Renaissance man for his ability to express himself in music, 
painting, poetry, philosophy and metaphysics. He wrote for national magazines 
since the 1930s and was the author of many books - astrology, fiction, poetry and 
metaphysics. 


Rudhyar had poor health as a child and at age 12 had a kidney removed. He ma- 
jored in philosophy and graduated from the Sorbonne at age 16. While involved in 
the artistic and musical climate of Paris, he had a mystical experience in which he 
became aware of the cyclic nature of all human existence, from which time on he 
sought to gain a deeper understanding through the study of theosophy, Eastern re- 
ligions, Jungian psychology and astrology. 

He immigrated to the USA and spent his final years in San Francisco where he 
became a central figure in the New Age movement of the 60s. His appreciation for 
intelligent women resulted in his being married five times. 


Venus in 6th house Aries exchanges with Mars in 7th house Taurus. Pre-exchange, 
neither forms yoga with any other planet. Before or after exchange, one or the 
other is afflicted by a powerful (exalted and retrograde) Saturn. 


This 6th/7th exchange is almost a kiss of death for relationships, spelling problems 
in the couple’s dynamic, or in the circumstances for the partner. (Since the 7th indi- 
cates relationships, the 6th is the 12th from the 7th and therefore the undoing of a 
relationship.) The aspect of a powerful Saturn on Venus, which is both 7th lord and 
karaka for relationships, makes this pattern all the more potent. 


This loss-of-relationship presaged by the 6th/7th exchange was evidenced in Rud- 
hyar’s being married five times. Interestingly enough, the same exchange also ex- 
plains his loss of a kidney, since the 7th house rules the kidneys. 

Both Mars and Venus are ordinary and form no yogas, so determining a control 
planet for this exchange is a tough call. Since Mars is lagnesh, we might favor it. A 
natural agitator, its placement in the 7th house evokes his turbulent marital life. 


Exchange of 6th and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In the event of the 6th lord falling in the 8th house, the native will be sickly, 
inimical to the learned and the wise, will desire others’ wealth, be interested 
in others’ wives, and be impure. (BPHS 26:68) 


* In case the 8th lord is gone in the 6th house, the native will win over his 
opponents, will have a diseased body and in childhood he will fear danger 
through snakes and water. (BPHS 26:90) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga (also a Viparita Yoga) wherein the lords are ina 
mutual 3/11 relationship from trik houses. As a consequence, the yoga may play out 
as a series of manageable crises. 


The native has many competitors and enemies whom he defeats, such that they’re 
more of a nuisance and a torment to him than a real menace. He is sexually aggres- 
sive, and attempts to form relations with women through promiscuous activity, 
adultery or rape. 


Sickness is a major theme in life, and he goes through a number of health crises and 
recoveries. Viral infections, toxins or poisons cause problems in the bowels or the 
internal sexual organs. These may be difficult to diagnose, due to the hidden nature 
of their symptoms. 


Maternal uncles and in-laws succeed through their own efforts, albeit with many 
setbacks, and make many short journeys. 


Working life is fitful, with many breaks in employment, and there are difficulties 
with staff and co-workers, and bad working conditions. Typical occupations entail 
stealth in the face of opposition, eg, police or insurance investigation, medical or 
military research. 


Other careers involve service in the face of traumatic events, eg, disaster relief 
teams, rape counselors, crime scene units, ambulance crews or critical care units, 
operating room staff, and hazardous materials handlers. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Prince Albert, British royalty; Paul Bowles, writer; Max Bruch, composer; Wilhelm 
Canaris, militarist; Robert Doisneau, photographer; Brendan Fraser, actor; W.D. 
Gann, astrologer/economist; Waylon Jennings, singer; Nathan Leopold, murderer; 
Jerry Lewis, comedian; Grandma Moses, artist; Martina Navratilova, tennis player; 
Emmy Noether, mathematician; Richard Petty, race car driver; Roman Prodi, educa- 
tor; Gian-Franco Zeffirelli, director. 


Case study 
Martina Navratilova is a Czech-American tennis champion whom Billie Jean King 


once called “the greatest singles, doubles and mixed doubles player who’s ever 
lived.” 


Born into a tennis-oriented family, she played her first tournament at age eight, the 
same year her father committed suicide. Off the court, she swam, skied, and played 
soccer and ice hockey, but nothing interfered with tennis. 


She was stripped of Czech citizenship when, in 1975 at age 18, she asked the United 
States for political asylum and was granted temporary residency. Aside from speak- 
ing out on several volatile political issues, including litigation reform and gay/les- 
bian rights, she’s been a vocal critic of Communism her whole life. 


In her mid-20s she suffered from toxoplasmosis, an infection threatening the 
central nervous system. In her mid-40s she was treated for breast cancer, having a 
tumor surgically removed. 


Public about being lesbian, she’s been linked to several other prominent female 
athletes, one of whom engaged her in a bitter court battle over a palimony suit. 


Navratilova is involved with various charities that benefit animal rights, underpriv- 
ileged children and gay rights. She’s written several books — a tennis instruction 
book, an autobiography, a fitness instruction book - and co-authored three mystery 
novels. 


Venus in 6th house Leo exchanges with the Sun in 8th house Libra. Pre-exchange, 
Venus is ordinary, while the Sun is debilitated in Libra. Since each is a trik lord ina 
trikisthana, independent of the exchange, this forms the basis for a Viparita Yoga. 
The 6th/8th exchange forming Parivartana Yoga, however, simply reinforces the 
Viparita Yoga, in which illness, trauma and litigation are potentially treated, re- 
solved or defeated. We can see this in her life via successful recoveries from major 
health crises in her 20s and 40s, and in her dismissal of a palimony suit brought 
against her by a former companion. 

Interestingly, Navratilova has a second Parivartana Yoga, the exchange of malefic 
enemies, 9th lord Mars and 12th lord Saturn. The most obvious problems from this 
quarter were loss of father through suicide, and legal problems regarding immigra- 


tion. 

Whereas the Sun is debilitated, Venus is merely ordinary, giving it the role of 
control planet in this exchange. Its position in the 6th house with lagnesh Jupiter 
speaks to both her competitive drive and her recovery from health crises. 


Exchange of 6th and 9th lords 
Parashara Says: 


* If the 6th lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will trade in wood and 
stones and will confront fluctuations in trade. (BPHS 26:69) 


* If the 9th lord is in the 6th house, the native will be less fortunate, be devoid 
of happiness from maternal uncle, etc, and be troubled by enemies. (BPHS 
26:102) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 relation- 
ship. As a consequence of this pattern, the yoga may reveal itself as a lack of luck in 
general, particularly in employment. 


The native experiences setbacks in his spiritual pursuits. He questions his teachers 
or disagrees with elements of their belief system. His guru adopts an adversarial 
stand in order to test his resolve. His ethics may be questionable, such that he ar- 
gues moral points of view, and gets into legal disputes. 


The father’s health is poor. Furthermore, the father’s life entails a significant degree 
of struggle, with some blemish attached to his profession or reputation. By exten- 
sion, the native’s relationship with his father might be adversarial. 


His maternal uncles or in-laws may be involved in the purchase or sale of vehicles or 
properties. 


Competitors and enemies gain advantage over him. His employment situation fluc- 
tuates due to competition or the interference of others. Travel further exposes him 
to adversaries, and he suffers losses from foreign dealings. He has accidents or ex- 
periences ill health during journeys. 


In terms of higher education, he does not favor religious subjects, and has difficulty 
achieving an advanced degree. He or his father is employed in medicine, law, de- 
fense or some aspect of foreign trade. Within the legal field, he may be an activist 
for animal or environmental issues. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Michele Alboreto, race car driver; Hans Christian Andersen, writer; Chris Carter, TV 
producer; Joe Clark, politician; John Cleese, actor; Tom Daschle, politician; Dr. Franz 
Hartmann, occultist; “Rocket” Ismail, football player; Kenneth Lay, corporate exec- 
utive; Brenda Lee, singer; Auguste Piccard, scientist; William Pitt, British nobility; 
Edith Sitwell, writer. 


Case study 

John Cleese is an English actor, comedian and writer best known for his TV series, 
Monty Python’s Flying Circus and Fawlty Towers (“I could run this hotel just fine, if it 
weren't for the guests.”) and the movie, A Fish Called Wanda. Aside from his TV and 


movie roles, Cleese has also produced business training films using humor to make 
their points. 


His family’s surname was originally Cheese, but his father thought it embarrassing 
and changed it when he enlisted. Cleese blames his mother, who lived to 101, for his 
difficult relationships with women. 


He was educated at Cambridge in mathematics, physics, and chemistry. For three 
years he was rector of the University of St. Andrew’s, and has held other similar 
posts at other universities. 


Despite a career of poking fun at the establishment, he declined offers of peerage 
and to be made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire. 


He’s been married four times. He successfully sued a British tabloid for libel con- 
cerning an article about his sex drive, and donated the proceeds to a scholarship 
foundation. However, his divorce settlement to his third wife, an American psy- 
chotherapist, cost him over $20 million. 


Politically involved and environmentally concerned, Cleese once declared, “I adore 
lemurs. They’re extremely gentle, well-mannered, pretty and yet great fun. | should 
have married one.” 


Mars in 6th house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 9th house Aries. By virtue 
of their special aspects, these two malefics and mutual enemies aspect each other, 
thus forming a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga via their rulership of the 7th and 9th 
houses. 


All of the malefic planets in this chart occupy cadent houses. This implies some de- 
gree of (technical) prowess in the arts, in environmental issues, in academia. 


Pre-exchange, Mars is exalted while Saturn is in a mixed state - retrograde but 
debilitated. Saturn is in mutual aspect with lagnesh Sun, which generates another 
Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga. Saturn as a kendra lord with a node in a trikona also 
generates a Raja Yoga. 


6th house themes have played out in problematic relationships, litigation and envi- 
ronmental causes. 9th house themes are evidenced in academic fields, legal matters 


and politics. 


The cross-pollination of those two houses in exchange can be seen in his industrial/ 
corporate training programs, as well as his declining social honors offered by the 
establishment. 


Although Saturn is retrograde, it's also debilitated; meanwhile Mars is exalted, thus 
making it the control planet for this exchange. Mars in the 6th is the agent provoca- 
teur, the activist. 


Exchange of 6th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 6th lord occupy the 10th house, the native will be illustrious in 
his family, will not be a devoted son, be a gifted speaker, and be happy in for- 
eign countries. (BPHS 26:70) 


* In case the 10th lord is fallen in the 6th house, the native will be bereft of 
paternal bliss, be bereft of wealth and be troubled by enemies in spite of being 
skillful. (BPHS 26:114) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 5/9 relationship 
from artha houses. Because of this dynamic, the yoga will play out mainly in mun- 
dane, material, financial and employment arenas. 


The native’s life is made difficult by enemies who operate from a position of status. 
Advances in his career are slow and filled with obstacles, due to the influence of 
competitors. His social status may be threatened. 


He has robust health, but may get sick or injured at work, either through a poisoned 
workplace or an occupational hazard. 


His business fluctuates although, by dint of hard work, he makes steady gains in 
professional status, rising ultimately to a high level of accomplishment. If he is an 
employer or manager, his staff is very competent. 


The person gets paid very well for work that is confrontational and/or traumatic. 
Occupations most favored are medicine and law, defense and police work. Ona 
lower scale, many service occupations also offer relatively attractive pay rates be- 
cause of the unsavory nature of the work, eg, butchers, garbage workers, environ- 
mental cleanup, etc. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Brendan Behan, playwright; Carlo Benetton, industrialist; Frank Capra, filmmaker; 
Edith Custer, astrologer; Linda Evans, actress; Lorne Greene, actor; Gary Middlecoff, 
pro golfer; Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario, tennis pro; Robert Sherwood, playwright; 
Karen Silkwood, activist; Heinrich Steinway, piano maker. 


Case study 


Karen Silkwood was an American chemical technician and labor union activist who 
raised concerns about corporate practices related to the health and safety of nu- 
clear plant workers. She’s most famous for her mysterious death, the subject of a 
victorious lawsuit against the chemical company. She gained more fame when she 
was portrayed by Meryl Streep in the Academy Award-nominated film Silkwood. 


Previously married with three children, Silkwood discovered her husband having 
an affair with her best friend, and left the family. She began working at a nuclear 


plant, became active in the workers’ union and was elected to their bargaining com- 
mittee, the first woman to achieve that position at the plant. 


Concerned about unsafe working conditions at the plant, Silkwood gathered 
evidence and spearheaded a union effort to publicize the situation and make man- 
agement accountable. Exposed to radioactivity on-site, she was killed in a fatal car 
crash less than two weeks later under circumstances that strongly suggested foul 
play. 

Her family later successfully sued her employer for negligence causing her death 
and, after judgment, appeal and review, received an out-of-court settlement of $1.4 
million. 


Ra ora 
MaR 20: 
SaR 2 


Mercury in 6th house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 10th house Gemini. 
Lagnesh Mercury is associated with Venus, forming both a Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yoga and a Dhana Yoga. 


Saturn is strong because retrograde. The association of 6th lord Saturn with 8th 
lord Mars constitutes a Viparita Yoga, albeit somewhat defused by the aspect of a 
retrograde Jupiter. The association of trikona lord Saturn in a kendra with a node 
also creates a Raja Yoga. 


Note how trikasthana lord Mars, retrograde with dig bala, is eminently positioned 
to inflict harm via its aspects to both the ascendant and Moon. 


The 6th house themes are strongly in evidence: dissolution of marriage, labor re- 
lations activism, concerns about the work environment, organized opposition, and 
legal action. 


10th house themes are seen through corporate business, publicity and relative fame 
for actions (karma) taken. 


Whereas Mercury is ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, giving it the strength to function 
as the control planet for this exchange. Thus, it borrows some muscle from Mars, 
some power from Rahu, and does its dirty work. Not all control planets are good for 
the owner of the chart. This is karma — the 10th house. 


Exchange of 6th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 6th lord occupy the 11th house, the native will gain from his 
enemies, be virtuous, adventurous, honorable, but be bereft of progenic hap- 
piness. (BPHS 26:71) 


* In case the 11th lord is posited in the 6th house, the native will generally 
remain sickly. He will be cruel, living in foreign places and be troubled by ene- 
mies. (BPHS 26:126) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship 
from upachaya houses. Because of this dynamic, themes of struggle and overcoming 
odds are dominant. 


The native is not fortunate with job opportunities, and doesn’t earn a high salary. 
His hopes and ambitions are hampered by competition, such that he eventually 
lowers his sights to diminished expectations. He makes gains through service occu- 
pations related to the medical, legal, or defense industries. 


Although income isn’t very good at the outset, it improves steadily with time. Simi- 
larly, although competitors are a torment, they too gradually diminish, such that he 
ultimately triumphs over them. 


His health suffers from an early age, but gradually improves over time. Resistance 
to infections, especially in the bowel, is weak at first but eventually gets stronger. 


His relationship with friends and elder siblings is strained. He faces competition 
from his sibling(s), and reversals of fortune among friends. Friends or elder siblings 
may have short or difficult lives. 


Financial transactions among his friends turn out badly. Loans made to friends may 
go unpaid. Rough company may encourage him to seek illegal profits, especially if 
the planets involved in the exchange are malefics. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Gabriele d’Annunzio, writer; Indira Gandhi, politician; Karl Jaspers, philosopher; 
Quincy Jones, musician; Henri Pétain, statesman; Michelle Pfeiffer, actress; Ruth 
Pointer, singer; Walter Winchell, journalist; Peter Wolf, musician. 


Case study 

Indira Gandhi was India’s only female Prime Minister (1966-1977) to date. Daughter 
of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, she received an excellent educa- 
tion, studying history at Oxford and speaking perfect French. 

During university, she was plagued with ill-health and constantly attended by 
doctors. Against her father’s wishes she married a man who turned out to be an al- 
coholic and womanizer. 


As Prime Minister, Gandhi was politically ruthless in centralizing her power. 
Although charged with electoral malpractice, jailed and banned from office, she 
staged a comeback. During India’s state of emergency, she allowed her son Sanjay 
to create what was effectively a police state. 


She was an advocate of equal pay for equal work. She presided over the nationaliza- 
tion of India’s banking, coal, steel, copper, refining, textile and insurance industries, 
largely to protect employment and the interests of organized labor. She also or- 
chestrated mass redistribution of land to assist the lower classes. 

Gandhi unleashed a powerful military offensive in the 1970s, waging wars against 
Pakistan and East Pakistan, resulting in the partition of Bangladesh. She formed an 
alliance with Russia to the chagrin of America. 


She was assassinated by two Sikh bodyguards whose loyalties changed after she 
used the army to dislodge militants from a Sikh holy site. 


sto fem 


Venus in 6th house Sagittarius exchanges with Jupiter in 11th house Taurus. Jupiter 
is retrograde, therefore strong, and involved in a Dhana Yoga via its mutual aspect 
with the Sun. 


The 6th house themes are evidenced in Gandhi’s strong-arm tactics, exercise of po- 
lice and military might, and concern for organized labor and the rural masses. 


11th house issues played out via her political astuteness and social reforms, while 
the blending of 6th/11th themes were revealed in her fluctuating political fortunes, 
with friends and allies one day becoming opponents the next, and vice versa. This 
reversal of fortunes was epitomized by her death at the hands of her own Sikh 
bodyguards. 


A key factor in Gandhi’s 6th/11th exchange is the presence of the Rahu-Ketu axis 
running through her 6th and 12th houses. This invoked karmic past-life influ- 
ences with respect to treachery and betrayals through friends and secret enemies. 
Without the nodal affliction, that “treachery” theme would not have emerged so 
dramatically. 


Gandhi's chart is truly extraordinary in that it also contains two other Parivartana 


Yogas — the Moon and Saturn in a 1st/7th exchange, and the Sun and Mars ina 
2nd/5th exchange. (40% of the population has one Parivartana Yoga, only 3% has 
two such yogas, and only 0.03% has three.) 

Whereas Venus is ordinary, Jupiter is retrograde, thus confirming it as the control 
planet for this exchange. Its position in the 11th house is representative of her so- 
cial ideals and political role. 


Exchange of 6th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 6th lord is placed in the 12th house, the money is spent on vices, 
and the native is inimical to the learned and does violence to animals. (BPHS 
26:72) 


* If the 12th lord is fallen in the 6th house, the native will incur enmity with 
his own men, be given to anger, be sinful, miserable, and will traverse others’ 
wives. (BPHS 26:138) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga (also a Viparita Yoga) wherein the lords are ina 
mutual 7/7 relationship from trik houses. This sambandha of mutual aspect also 
serves to strengthen (and aggravate) the significations of the exchange. 


The native suffers from adversaries, both open and secret, but eventually escapes 
their persecution, or the enemies themselves are neutralized through incarcera- 
tion or isolation. Spiritual liberation, or moksha, is a struggle, either because he’s 
unaware of a spiritual dimension in his life, or because he doesn’t make efforts to 
overcome his own inner problems. 


He may have something of a sexual obsession, being frequently in search of fresh 
partners, including those in other relationships. Consequently, his sexuality may be 
a cause of stress, with subsequent ramifications through perversion, deceit, rape, 
and/or infection. 


Maternal uncles or in-laws may have a short or difficult life. He may have disputes 
with in-laws, servants and tenants. 


His health is affected to the degree that hospitalization may be required, but since 
the 6th is an upachaya house, recuperation comes eventually. He should get inoc- 
ulated before traveling to the third world, since foreign viruses are a danger to his 
health. 


He finds foreign employment in a service occupation. Alternatively, he has employ- 
ees or co-workers of a foreign nationality. Employees may prove to betray or under- 
mine him. 


He borrows heavily to spend, and finds himself constantly juggling his finances in 
order to make ends meet. If he could control his spending on unwholesome vices, he 
might otherwise enjoy uninterrupted lifetime prosperity. 


Famous people with this yoga 


John Wayne Bobbitt, castration victim; Roger Elliot, astrologer; Georges Guynemer, 
military pilot; Joanna Lumley, actress; Dean Martin, entertainer; Odetta, singer; 
Tony Randall, actor; Jean-Paul Sartre, existentialist; Bruce Scofield, astrologer; 
Cybil Shepherd, actress; Taylor Swift, musician. 


Case study 


Taylor Swift is an American singer-songwriter whose debut album established her 
as a star. As of 2015, she’s won seven Grammy Awards and many other industry 
awards. 


Known for narrative songs about personal experiences, she’s been described as “a 
songwriting savant.” But she also has her critics, with one saying, “she’s also a high- 
strung, hyper-romantic gal with a melodramatic streak.” 


Her love life, involving Joe Jonas, Taylor Lautner, John Mayer, Jake Gyllenhaal, 
Harry Styles and other celebs, has attracted inordinate media attention. The New 
York Times questioned whether she was in the midst of a “quarter-life crisis,” while 
a Baptist church labeled her “the whorish face of doomed America.” 


Whatever the circumstances, Swift has tried to defuse conflict. After the 2009 MTV 
awards when Kanye West said Beyoncé should have won her award, Swift told an 
interviewer that Kanye later offered a personal apology. She refused to discuss the 
incident in subsequent interviews so as not to make a bigger deal of it. 


Less well known than her musical career and love life, Swift is an active philan- 
thropist, donating to and performing on behalf of causes related to arts education, 
children’s literacy, victims of natural disasters, LGBT rights, sick children and com- 
munity affairs. 


JuR nx 
Mo 1705 


Ma 324g 


Su 219 9 Ra 
Me 1550 
Sa se 


Mercury in 6th house Sagittarius exchanges with Jupiter in 12th house Gemini. 
Mercury and Jupiter, as trik lords, along with Saturn, form what is called a “full 
mala” in the formation of a Viparita Yoga, wherein all three trik lords occupy other 
trik houses. 


Although it might be comforting to say it's the nature of Viparita to reverse/negate 
misfortunes, the fact remains that lagnesh Moon is associated with or aspected by 
all three trik lords. As such, it risks becoming the victim of collateral damage in the 
struggle among these three functional malefics. Although Swift has been blessed 
thus far with health, looks, talent, fame and fortune, life is long... 


Although Mercury forms no other yoga, Jupiter before or after exchange retains 


contact withthe Moon, resulting in both a Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yoga and a Kesari Yoga, and with Saturn, generating another 
Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga. 

6th house themes have thus far been revealed through an irregular 
love life. In all fairness, Swift is only in her 20s, but this might well 
be an ongoing state of affairs. 

12th house themes are evidenced through her extensive 
philanthropy and, to a lesser 

degree, her sex life that’s become overly publicized in the media. 

Whereas Mercury is ordinary, Jupiter is retrograde, making it the control planet 
for this exchange. Its placement in the 12th evokes her philanthropy. 

For a more complete analysis of this chart, see the Swift article on my website. 


Exchanges involving the 7th house lord 


Exchange of 7th and 8th lords 
Parashara says: 


* In case the 7th lord happens to fall in the 8th house, the native will be bereft 
of marital happiness. His wife also will be afflicted by diseases, bad-natured, 
and will not remain obedient to the native. (BPHS 26:80) 


* If the 8th lord is placed in the 7th house, the native will have two wives, and 
if he is in conjunction with a malefic planet also, there will certainly be loss in 
his trade. (BPHS 26:91) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relation- 
ship. Because of this dynamic, the yoga typically plays out in troublesome, irregular 
or traumatic dealings with significant others. 


The native has difficult relationships that are spoiled by inconsistent behavior, 
dishonesty or greed. He has an unhappy marital life, and separation or divorce is a 
common outcome. The spouse is ill-tempered or psychologically flawed, either as a 
result of family traumas or other misfortunes in life. 


The spouse is very interested in sex, occult practices or other mystical traditions, 
but has difficulty integrating these elements into her life. For instance, she may 
have problems with her reproductive system, or her sexual expression. 


The spouse is sickly, undergoes surgeries, is afflicted by accidents, and has chronic 
physical complaints. In the extreme, these could be debilitating or life-threatening. 


The native and his partner have problems with other people’s money, and get into 
trouble through loans and debts. The partner could contribute to money problems 
through gambling or some other form of financial mis-management. Alternatively, 
the partner may be professionally involved in the fields of banking, insurance, re- 
search or trauma management. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Lynn Anderson, singer; John Barth, writer; David Berkowitz, serial killer; Daniel 
Berrigan, activist; Barbara Bush, American First Lady; Jeb Bush, politician; Quentin 
Crisp, humorist; Willem Dafoe, actor; Phil Everly, musician; Fabio, model; Alberto 
Fujimori, politician; Sugar Ray Leonard, boxer; Billy Martin, baseball manager; 
Joseph McCarthy, politician; Audie Murphy, actor; Joe Namath, football player; 
Jerry Rubin, activist; Bertrand Russell, philosopher; Rusty Schweickart, astronaut; 
Sam Shepard, playwright; Peter Sutcliffe, “Yorkshire Ripper”; Zucchero, singer. 


Case study 
Bertrand Russell was a British-Welsh writer, mathematician, logician, philosopher 


and social activist, considered one of the 20th century’s most important liberal 
thinkers. 


Born into the British aristocracy, he became acquainted with death at an early age, 
with both parents and a sister dying by the time he was four. His adolescence was 
very lonely, and it was only his interest in mathematics that kept him from suicide. 
He produced over 3,000 publications, authored more than 40 books, and won a 
Nobel Prize for Literature. But he was outspoken and controversial for his day. Anti- 
war protests landed him in prison during WW1, and 50 years later he was again 
briefly jailed for anti-nuclear protests. 

Russell was an active supporter of homosexual law reform, calling for a change in 
the law regarding male homosexual practices. On another occasion, he was dis- 
missed from a university post for his avant-garde views on sexual morality. 

He once survived a plane crash, saying he owed his life to smoking since the people 
who died were in the non-smoking part of the plane. 


He was married four times. During a separation period in his first marriage, he had 
passionate (and often simultaneous) affairs with a number of women. 


SNe 


SaR n3 


Me i119 


y 
Ve x07 2 
Raz? SaR ass | Ke a7 
Su oss7 
Ma 05:40 


Venus in 7th house Aries exchanges with Mars in 8th house Taurus. Venus in the 
7th constitutes karako bhavo nashto, wherein relationships are made vulnerable 
through affliction by either natal or transiting malefics. 


Pre-exchange, lagnesh Venus associates with 9th lord Mercury to create a Dharma 
Karma Adhipati Yoga, while as 8th lord, combines with 12th lord Mercury to form a 
Viparita Yoga. Mars in the 8th is weak, being totally combust within 17 minutes of 
arc. 


Pre- or post-exchange, the nodal axis afflicts 7th lord Mars or relationship karaka 
Venus, thus destabilizing marital status. 

The 7th house themes of marriage, sex, war and activism were all dominant in Rus- 
sell’s life. 


8th house themes arose through early acquaintance with death, thoughts of sui- 
cide, life-threatening accidents, scientific investigation and philosophical inquiry. 


Largely due to his stubborn adherence to ideals that ran counter to conventional 
morality, he also had more than his fair share of career reversals and public scan- 
dals. 

Whereas Venus is ordinary, Mars is totally combust. This gives Venus the relative 
strength to function as the control planet in this exchange. Its placement in the 7th 
house speaks to his battleground in life - relationships, both personal and social. 


Exchange of 7th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 7th lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will have union with 
many women, be well disposed to his own wife, and will initiate a number of 
deeds. (BPHS 26:81) 


* If the 9th lord is placed in the 7th house, the native will get happiness 
through his wife. He will be virtuous and famous. (BPHS 26:103) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) wherein the 
lords are in a mutual 3/11 relationship. Because of this dynamic, the yoga typically 
unfolds via fortuitous relationships with significant others. 


The native is healthy, attractive, respected, and fortunate in life. He enjoys a happy 
married life, with a spouse who is well-educated, spiritually inclined, and of a 
strong moral disposition. The spouse is also adventurous, artistic or athletic, and 
well-traveled. His spouse serves his father and/or her own brother, either through 
personal favors or employment. 


Despite the benefits of marriage, he is inclined to pursue other relationships after 
marriage, although without the intention of replacing the spouse. He meets poten- 
tial partners in the course of travel, in libraries and bookstores, or in places of learn- 
ing and worship. 


He travels in pursuit of a higher education, and develops relationships with people 
in the country that hosts him. He is successful in business and trade. Travel is sig- 
nificant, including periods of residence in a foreign country. 


His father is financially successful, and enjoys a wide circle of friends. His father 
travels a lot and could die away from home. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Brendan Behan, playwright; Pat Buchanan, politician; George Carlin, comedian; 
Rubin Carter, homicide; Bruce Chatwin, travel writer; Adolf Eichmann, Nazi; Michael 
Erlewine, astrologer; Gary Hart, politician; Jack Nicholson, actor; Judge Reinhold, 
actor; Gerhard Schroder, politician; Dick Sutphen, mystic; Toni Tennille, singer; Sid 
Vicious, musician; Jerry West, basketball player; Walter Winchell, journalist. 


Case study 


George Carlin was an American comedian, social critic, actor and author who tack- 
led politics, the English language, psychology, religion and various taboo subjects. 
Although raised a Catholic, Carlin rejected it, and in his comedy often criticized 
religion, God and religious adherents. His later routines shifted to socio-cultural 
criticism of modern American society. 


In his youth he joined the Air Force, working part-time as a radio station disc jockey, 


but was court-martialed three times and discharged for being unproductive. 


After establishing himself as a standup comic, he became one of Johnny Carson's 
most frequent substitutes on The Tonight Show. Later he ran afoul of the FCC, 
charged with violating obscenity laws for “Seven Words You Can Never Say on TV.” 


He liked to mix observational humor with larger social commentary, eg, “When 
you're born, you get a ticket to the freak show. When you're born in America, you 
get a front-row seat.” 

His first hardcover book, Brain Droppings, sold 900,000 copies over 40 weeks on the 
New York Times bestseller list. When asked on The Actor’s Studio, what made him 
proudest of his career, he said the number of books he'd sold. 


His first marriage endured 36 years until his wife’s death, and a second marriage 
lasted 10 years until his own death in 2008. 


Jupiter in 7th house Capricorn exchanges with Saturn in 9th house Pisces. Jupiter is 
debilitated and participates in no other yoga. Saturn is ordinary and forms no other 
yoga. 

7th house themes played out in a stable marital life, and a very interactive relation- 
ship with his fans (especially hecklers) during his live performances. 


The 9th house topics found outlet in his legal issues (both private and professional), 
through his work in broadcast media and the publishing industry, and his penchant 
for poking fun at religion and undermining the establishment. 


The 7th/9th exchange came full circle with the publication a few years after his 
death, with a collection of previously-unpublished writings and artwork by Carlin 
interwoven with his second wife’s chronicle of their last ten years together. 


Whereas Jupiter is debilitated, Saturn is merely ordinary, giving it the relative 
strength to function as the control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 9th 
house reflected his success in broadcasting and publishing, as well as his frequent 
attacks on organized religion. 


Exchange of 7th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* jn the event of the 7th lord being placed in the 10th house, the native’s wife 
will not remain under his control. The native himself will be religious and be 
gifted with wealth, sons, etc. (BPHS 26:82) 


* If the 10th lord occupies the 7th house, the native will get happiness through 
his wife, be intelligent, virtuous, eloquent, truthful and devoted to religion. 
(BPHS 26:115) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 relationship 
from kendra houses. As a result of this dynamic, the yoga often manifests through 
an accomplished partner in life who enjoys public success of some sort, which may 
also benefit him. 


The native is spiritually inclined and devoted to his religion or some noble cause. He 
has all the professional skills of a diplomat — able to develop rapport with others, 
to counsel and negotiate successfully, and to reach closure on business agreements. 


He enjoys many gains from business and achieves a status beyond his immediate 
social circle. He profits from partnerships in general, some of which may be culti- 
vated in the course of foreign travel. Professionally, he functions well as some sort 
of agent. 


His spouse is helpful in business. She is career-oriented and ambitious, both for 
herself and for her spouse. She may be involved in transactions involving vehicles or 
property. She is inclined to be autonomous, self-employed or active in social circles, 
acquiring publicity, a good reputation and/or honors in her profession. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Truman Capote, writer; Valerie Harper, actress; Karl Jaspers, philosopher; Kitty 
Kelley, celebrity biographer; Joanna Lumley, actress; Cotton Mather, founder of 
Yale University; Richard Nixon, US President; Dr. Elaine Pagels, Biblical scholar; 
Francis Scobee, astronaut; George Steinbrenner, baseball owner; Bob Woodward, 
journalist. 


Case study 

Richard Nixon was the 37th President of the USA (1968-1974), and the only one to 
resign office, following the Watergate scandal. 

Named after Richard the Lion-Hearted, he was raised in a Quaker household and 
overcame his innate shyness only later in life. He worked in the family business to 
pay his way through college. 

He served in the US Navy during WW2, gaining a reputation as an accomplished 
poker player. Post-war, he was an active anti-Communist, participating in the House 


of Un-American Activities. 

Despite his loss to Kennedy in 1960, amid allegations of Democratic vote fraud, 
Nixon refused to contest the election, fearing it would damage America’s image. 
Later, for similar allegiance to the country, he chose resignation rather than im- 
peachment after Watergate. 


He faced near poverty after resigning, and was down to $500 in the bank, when the 
David Frost interviews earned him $600,000. He later went on to author 10 books in 
his retirement. 


Nixon had a complex personality, secretive and awkward, yet strikingly reflective 
about himself. He distanced himself from people and was very formal, wearing a 
coat and tie even when home alone. One biographer called him a “smart, talented 
man, but the most peculiar and haunted of presidents.” 


Venus in 7th house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 10th house Taurus. The two 
planets are mutual friends, but neither is involved in any other yoga. Saturn is pow- 
erful as a retrograde and, post-exchange, also obtains dig bala. 


Perhaps because these are the only planets in kendras, their very isolation from 
others makes this Parivartana Yoga all the more potent and symptomatic of Nixon’s 
life and career. 

The 7th house is the place of relationships, marriage and diplomacy. Nixon was 
mutually devoted to his life-long spouse Pat whose support helped him in his ca- 
reer, and whose death deeply affected him. 


With respect to the 10th house, his image has been mixed, quite literally. The media 
took delight in lampooning Nixon through caricatures, while Watergate cast a pall 
upon his reputation. As one biographer said, “How can one evaluate such an idio- 
syncratic president, so brilliant and so morally lacking?” 


And yet history has acknowledged Nixon as perhaps America’s greatest statesman. 
He brought the Vietnam War to an end, opened diplomatic relations with China, 
secured nuclear détente with the Soviet Union, and developed better relations with 
Latin America. 

Whereas Venus is ordinary, Saturn is retrograde, thus granting it the strength to be 
the control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 10th is symptomatic of 
both his hard-won rise to power and subsequent fall from office. 


Exchange of 7th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 7th lord occupies the 11th house, the native will gain wealth through 
his wife, will get less happiness from his sons, and will have more daughters 
(than sons). (BPHS 26:83) 


* If the 11th lord is situated in the 7th house, the native always gains through 
his wife's relatives. He will be liberal, virtuous, sensual, and will remain at the 
command of his wife. (BPHS 26:127) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 5/9 relationship 
from kama houses. Thanks to this dynamic, the yoga often plays out through pro- 
ductive partnerships, whether personal, social or professional. 


The native engages in business abroad and enjoys gains of foreign income. He is a 
natural networker, and strengthens his business relationships though partnerships, 
including with those of elder siblings. 


He profits in some way through his spouse. For instance, the spouse will earn a good 
income of her own, or may come from a wealthy family. She may also provide intro- 
ductions to an influential circle of associates that contribute to the native’s prosper- 
ity. She is a romantic and an optimist, and is successful in speculation or games of 
chance. 


The native’s desire nature is strong and he experiences sexual attractions among his 
circle of friends, whether first-hand or through social media. He may be a member 
of a club, eg, Ashley Madison, dedicated to sexual liaisons. 

The elder sibling is likely to pursue higher education in combination with foreign 
travel. Within the context of a dysfunctional family, an elder sibling could become 
romantically involved with the native’s spouse. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Victor Borge, entertainer; Ron Howard, director; Neil Kinnock, politician; Mario 
Lanza, singer; Jack London, writer; Mike Love, musician; Ricky Martin, singer; 
Burgess Meredith, actor/director; Bill Wilson, founder of Alcoholics Anonymous. 


Case study 


Jack London was an American author, journalist, and social activist. A pioneer in 
commercial magazine fiction, he was one of the first writers to obtain worldwide 
celebrity and a large fortune from his fiction alone. 


He was the son of an astrologer and a spiritualist. After one year of college, he 
dropped out and became a self-taught vagrant. He was an oyster pirate, joined 


the Klondike gold rush, roamed London's slums, savored his adventures and wrote 
them down. 

He was an amateur boxer, an animal activist and a passionate advocate of unioniza- 
tion, socialism and workers’ rights. He was a war correspondent for the 1904 Russo- 
Japanese War. 


He was restless in his first marriage, sought extramarital sexual affairs, but later 
found in his second wife a sexually active, adventurous partner and life-companion. 


London wrote 46 adventure tales that earned him world-wide fame, but he was 
constantly in debt. He was also a dissolute, with poor health (rectal ulcers, skin 
problems, kidney disease) compounded by unusual dietary habits (raw fish and 
meat), alcoholism and drug abuse, the latter of which killed him. 


Jupiter in 7th house Scorpio exchanges with Mars in 11th house Pisces. The two 
planets are mutual friends but otherwise uninvolved in any other yoga. 


The 7th house themes played out in a form of constructive vagrancy, wherein he 
traveled far and wide, engaging in risky adventures wherever he went: boxing, 
piracy, extra-marital affairs, use of prostitutes, and war correspondence. Kidney dis- 
ease is also found under the 7th house. 


The 11th house topics were epitomized by his social activism (advocacy of labor 
union movements, and animal rights long before they became popular), cutting a 
broad swath through society, enormous earnings for a writer of the day, and fame 
through his chronicled exploits. His work was said to reflect every tendency and big 
idea, and at one time he was considered the best-read writer in the United States. 


In this case, both Mars and Jupiter are ordinary, and neither is involved in any 
yogas. We might therefore say there is no control planet for this exchange. If 
pressed, however, we could favor Mars because it is the more elevated. Its position 
in the 11th evokes his social activism, widespread popularity and huge earnings. 


Exchange of 7th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 7th lord is gone in the 12th house, the native will be penurious, 
miserly, and his wife will be spendthrift. He will earn his livelihood by trading 
in clothes, textiles, garments, etc. (BPHS 26:84) 


* Should the 12th lord occupy the 7th house, the native will always expend on 
account of his wife, will not enjoy conjugal bliss, and will be bereft of learning 
and strength. (BPHS 26:139) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 6/8 relationship. 
Under this dynamic, the yoga can manifest as impractical, illusory or self-destruc- 
tive relationships 


The native generally lives a troubled life, either as a result of illness, spending too 
much, having an unsatisfactory sex life, or being isolated from the people or things 
he cares for. He travels a lot and may take up foreign residence because of a love 
relationship. He incurs expenses for the sake of love and sex, primarily to please his 
partner, but also for personal indulgence, including the hire of prostitutes. 


Marital life is unhappy due to sexual frustration, betrayal or poor health of the 
spouse. He is separated from his spouse by virtue of emotional disposition, physical 
distance, desertion or death. Prospects are poor for partnerships of all kinds, with 
business associates equally likely to part ways. Contractual agreements with busi- 
ness partners get broken, with debts and financial losses resulting. 


His illnesses take the form of psychosomatic ailments, or real problems with kid- 
neys or sexual organs, including STDs. 


He has a great fascination for sexuality in all its forms, and his restless desire to 
experience variety will ultimately be a source of unhappiness. He may engage in 
secretive sexual behavior, or be partner to a secret sexual relationship. Spiritual lib- 
eration, or moksha, will therefore be elusive so long as he is trapped in an endless 
cycle of sexual relationships. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Eddie Arcaro, jockey; Gabriele d’Annunzio, writer; Betty Ford, American First Lady; 
Ernest Gallo, vintner; Dr. Albert Hoffmann, LSD chemist; Queen Latifah, singer; Liza 
Minnelli, actress; Vladimir Nabokov, writer; Pope John Paul Il, ecclesiastic; Wilhelm 
Il, German Emperor. 


Case study 

Liza Minnelli is an American actress and singer best known for the film Cabaret in 
which she won an Academy Award. She first performed on film at age three with her 
mother Judy Garland. 


Primarily considered a pop singer, she’s also appeared in several Broadway produc- 
tions, movies and TV shows. Like Cher, she’s considered both an American and gay 
icon. One critic said, “her every stage appearance is perceived as a victory of show- 
business stamina over psychic frailty.” 


Minnelli has long suffered from alcoholism, and has been addicted to prescription 
drugs. Struggling with substance abuse, she became one of the first prominent peo- 
ple openly talking about rehab. 


She’s been married (and divorced) four times. Her first husband was gay. Her 4th 
husband alleged that she beat him in alcohol-induced rages during their marriage. 
She’s had three miscarriages, no children. 


After a serious case of viral encephalitis, doctors predicted she'd spend the rest of 
her life in a wheelchair, perhaps never speak again. No stranger to hospitals, she’s 
had two hip replacements, two knee surgeries, spinal fusion, a polyp removed from 
her vocal cords, and made emergency visits for suspected heart attack, dehydration 
and concussion. 


Throughout her lifetime, Minnelli has served various charities she considers very 
important, especially AIDS. 


Jupiter in 7th house Libra exchanges with Venus in 12th house Pisces. Jupiter has 
strength via its retrogression. Venus is exalted. Neither forms any other constructive 
yoga. 

Post-exchange, Venus in the 7th invokes karako bhavo nashto and the potential ero- 
sion of relationships. 

7th house themes revealed themselves through her multiple marriages and other 
affairs with celebrities of the day. 

But it’s the 12th house that really looms large in doling out the troubles she’s expe- 
rienced in life: Valium addiction dating back to the traumatic death of her mother, 
alcoholism, institutionalization in rehab clinics for substance abuse, and hospital- 
ization for a wide range of physical injuries and illnesses. 


Amore positive 12th house attribute is her involvement in charities for AIDS and 


children’s brain development. 


Although Jupiter is retrograde, its dignity is trumped by the exaltation of Venus, 
thus making it control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 12th is sympto- 
matic of her many misfortunes - through loss of loved ones, substance abuse, rehab 
and hospitalizations. 


Exchanges involving the 8th house lord 


Exchange of 8th and 9th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 8th lord is situated in the 9th house, the native will be a betrayer of 
his religion and a heterodox; he will be the husband of a wicked wife and will 
steal other’s wealth. (BPHS 26:93) 


* If the 9th lord is gone in the 8th house, the native will be devoid of fortune, 
and he will not have the happiness of an elder brother. (BPHS 26:104) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relation- 
ship. Because of this dynamic, typical manifestations include problems with the fa- 
ther and a distinct lack of luck in life. 


The native follows an unorthodox religion or spiritual pursuit, and is inclined to- 
ward the so-called “left hand path” of occult studies, eg, sex magic, witchcraft and 
raising the dead. Alternatively, he pursues a conventional spiritual path but is mis- 
led by a false or unreliable guru. His morality is deficient, such that he tries to profit 
materially from those with whom he associates. 


His general fortunes in life are largely obstructed, such that he can’t capitalize on 
opportunities. “If it weren't for bad luck, | wouldn't have any luck at all.” He has 
difficulty pursuing his higher education, and faces interruptions or changes in di- 
rection. Similarly, foreign travel encounters delays, cancellations, documentation 
problems and other complications. He is unsuccessful in legal proceedings. 


Physically, he has problems with the hip, lower back and sciatic nerve. 


His father’s health is poor, or his father is subject to accidents, surgeries and mis- 
cellaneous losses or mishaps in life. On the positive side, he may inherit his father’s 
property. 

His potential career path includes the fields of insurance, estate planning, and the 
administration of trusts and wills. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Piers Anthony, writer; Stephen Arroyo, astrologer; Nino Benvenuti, boxer; Jerry 
Brown, politician; Truman Capote, writer; Pete Conrad, astronaut; Clint Eastwood, 
actor; Harlan Ellison, writer; Friedrich Engels, communist; Marvin Gaye, musician; 
D.W. Griffith, director; Larry Hagman, actor; Warren Harding, politician; Dustin 
Hoffman, actor; Bobby Hull, hockey player; Kris Kristofferson, musician; Moebius, 
cartoonist; Franz von Papen, politician; Sean Penn, actor; Sylvia Plath, writer; Pierre 
Salinger, journalist; Jon Voight, actor. 


Case study 


Sylvia Plath was an American poet, novelist, and short-story writer. Her father, a 
biology professor who wrote a book about bees, died of untreated diabetes when 
Plath was eight. Many of her later poems spoke of her love, hate, fear and fused 
identity with that of her father. 


During university, furious at missing a chance to meet poet Dylan Thomas, she 
slashed her legs. Following shock therapy for depression, she took sleeping pills but 
survived after lying in a crawl space under her house for three days. 


Although a brilliant writer, she was tortured by jealousy, obsessions and depression, 
finally learning “to be true to my own weirdness.” She is credited with advancing 
the genre of confessional poetry. 


After marriage to British poet Ted Hughes, they both became interested in astrol- 
ogy, the supernatural and Ouija boards. They had two children but, after he had an 
affair, they separated and she committed suicide by putting her head in a gas oven 
in 1963. 


Posthumous publication of her last poetry book assured Plath’s fame. Critics saw 
the collection as her increasing desperation and death wish. Radical feminists ac- 
cused Hughes of abuse and threatened to kill him in Plath’s name. Their son, fol- 
lowing a history of depression, hanged himself in 2009. 


Venus in 8th house Virgo exchanges with Mercury in 9th house Libra. Pre-exchange, 
debilitated Venus forms no productive yoga with a dark Moon, and is hemmed by 
malefics the Sun and Ketu. Mercury forms Dharma Karma Adhipati and Budhaditya 
Yogas with the Sun. 


The entwinement of 8th/9th themes is powerfully evidenced in Plath's complex 
feelings around love, despair, rage, vengeance, ambivalence, grief, death, redemp- 
tion and resurrection, with father figures looming large in so much of her work. De- 
pression, desperation and death wish are also bound up in the 8th. 


Note that, not only is the 9th house “damaged” by the exchange with the 8th lord, 
but the house itself is heavily afflicted. The Sun, karaka for the father, is debilitated 
and aspected by malefics — a debilitated Mars from the 6th and a strong Saturn from 


the 12th - two mutual enemies whose opposition across the 6th/12th axis is itself a 
signature for self-harm and -undoing. 


Since Venus is debilitated while Mercury is ordinary, this gives it the relative 


strength to function as control planet for this exchange. Mercury's placement in the 
9th relates to her literary status and feminist legacy. 


Exchange of 8th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 8th lord occupies the 10th house, the native will not have paternal 
bliss, will be a tale bearer and be bereft of livelihood. If there is an aspect in 
the process from a benefic, then these evils will not mature. (BPHS 26:94) 


* Jn case the 10th lord is posited in the 8th house, the native will be devoid of 
good acts, long-lived, and intent on blaming others. (BPHS 26:116) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 3/11 relation- 
ship. The yoga often plays out through reversals in career or social status, thus 
affecting reputation. 


The native has difficulty determining his right career and faces false starts and 
changes of direction. He uses all means, both fair and foul, to succeed in his career, 
but despite his best efforts, he encounters impediments and frequent setbacks. 


He has difficulty with self-promotion, and is perceived as someone who lacks the 
drive or skills to succeed. Even when he performs his job well, he doesn’t get credit 
for it, and less qualified people get promoted before he does. He may experience 
embarrassment in a public place, or his social reputation is soiled. 


Appropriate career fields include banking and insurance, medicine and the healing 
arts, psychology and any other discipline dedicated to transformation of the indi- 
vidual. On a more mundane level, mining, salvage and trade in scrap or used arti- 
cles are profitable activities. 


Finally, for some, the business may be immoral or illegal, such as prostitution, theft, 
dealing in contraband or stolen articles, money laundering, etc. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Marcia Clark, prosecutor; Carrie Fisher, actress/writer; Paul Horn, musician; Queen 
Isabel I, Spanish royalty; Sally Kellerman, actress; Jim Lewis, astrologer; Trini 
Lopez, musician; Arthur Scargill, labor leader; Sylvester Stallone, actor/writer; Tina 
Turner, singer; Shania Twain, country artist; Rudolph Valentino, actor. 


Case study 


Tina Turner is a singer, actress, and author whose career has spanned over half 
a century. Noted for her energetic stage presence, powerful vocals and career 
longevity, the "Queen of Rock ‘n’ Roll” has won eight Grammy awards and sold 
more concert tickets than any other solo performer. 


Born to sharecropper parents, her mother fled an abusive relationship, leaving Tina 
and her sister in the care of their grandparents. A self-professed tomboy, she was 
both a cheerleader and basketball player during high school. 


Her music career began when she teamed up with Ike Turner. But after 16 years of 


physical abuse, along with his cocaine habit and blatant infidelities, she ran away 
with only 36 cents in her pocket. She had nose surgery to repair a septum damaged 
from Ike's frequent beatings, and at one time attempted suicide by swallowing 50 
Valium. 


Despite a near-fatal bout with tuberculosis, she transformed her solo career over 
six hard years. Although raised a Baptist, she later melded her faith with Buddhism, 
crediting the religion and its spiritual chant of Nam Myoho Renge Kyo with helping 
her through difficult times. 


She later married a German music executive, renounced her American citizenship 
and became a Swiss national. 


Mars in 8th Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 10th house Aries. Neither malefic is 
involved in any other significant yoga. Saturn is in a mixed state, being both retro- 
grade and debilitated, hemmed by benefics and closely aligned with the Rahu-Ketu 
axis. 


Post-exchange, Mars gains dig bala in the 10th. Pre- or post-exchange, prime 
malefics dominate the angles. 


Difficult 8th house themes are seen in Ike’s cocaine addiction, her exposure to 
violence at his hands, her debts after splitting from him (leaving her responsible 
for cancelled tour dates), and the resurrection of her career from battered singer/ 
spouse to dynamic solo act. 


10th house themes are evidenced in her enduring legacy as a performer, having 
been inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, listed in Rolling Stone's Top 20 
singers of all time, and her own star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. 


Whereas Mars is ordinary, Saturn is debilitated but retrograde, leaving us in a 
quandary as to which enjoys relative strength. Since Saturn is afflicted by the nodal 
axis while Mars is free of influence, we might safely consider Mars the more likely 
control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 8th house speaks to her multi- 
ple traumas, but also her self-renewal and recovery. 


Exchange of 8th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 8th lord be placed in the 11th house, the native will be devoid of 
wealth, be miserable in boyhood, but happy in later life, and if the 8th lord be 
in conjunction with a benefic, be long-lived. (BPHS 26:95) 


* If the 11th lord is fallen in the 8th house, the native will suffer losses in his 
undertakings. He will be long-lived, while his wife will die before him. (BPHS 
26:128) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 rela- 
tionship. The yoga typically manifests as financial irregularities and broken social 
relationships. 


The native experiences many ups and downs in life, especially with respect to 
income. His hopes and ambitions are jeopardized by unforeseen circumstances. He 
sustains reversals and financial losses in his undertakings. 


His longevity is good, and he recovers from accidents and surgeries. He has hearing 
problems on the left side, or problems with the left hand or arm. 


Friends and elder siblings are a source of unhappiness, either in his relationship 
with them, or because they suffer misfortunes in their lives. Friends and elder sib- 
lings may be undependable, neglectful or abusive. 


In the case of a second marriage, his wife's children (5th from the 7th) will be a 
source of unhappiness, through substance abuse, inadequate education, or financial 
mismanagement. 


He is the beneficiary of family inheritance or insurance policies, although he may 
in turn lose a good portion of this windfall. He works in the insurance field or some 
other business related to death or trauma, although this is not highly-paid work. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Les Aspin, politician; Karen Black, actress; Princess Caroline, Monaco royalty; 
Jacques Chirac, politician; Michael Elliott, Olympic skier; Jean Luc Godard, director; 
Clifford Irving, writer; Virginia Johnson, sex therapist; Albert Kesselring, militarist; 
Josef Mengele, Nazi doctor; Gerhardus Mercator, cartographer; Ryan O'Neal, actor; 
Lee Harvey Oswald, assassin; Siegfried, illusionist; Lily Tomlin, comedienne; Al 
Unser, race car driver; Raquel Welch, actress; Natalie Wood, actress. 


Case study 


Virginia Johnson was an American sexologist, writer and co-founder of the Masters 
and Johnson Institute. She and William Masters established a research foundation 
to study the psychology and physiology of sex using volunteer subjects under labo- 
ratory conditions. 


At age 16 Johnson had enrolled in college but dropped out, spending four years in a 
state insurance office. She returned to college, studied music and began a career as 
a vocalist, singing country for a local radio station. 

She became a business writer for a newspaper, studied sociology but never finished 
her degree. While at university she was hired as a research assistant at the Depart- 
ment of Obstetrics and Gynecology. 

There she met William Masters and together developed polygraph-like instruments 
to measure human sexual arousal and its phases - excitement, plateau, orgasm, and 
resolution. 

Although Masters and Johnson became a household word, she had serious reser- 
vations about their Institute’s program to convert homosexuals into heterosexuals. 
Showtime recently broadcast a TV drama series based on the biography Masters of 
Sex. 


Johnson was divorced four times. The first marriage to a politician lasted two days. 
She married a much older attorney and divorced him. She married a bandleader for 
six years and two kids. She married William Masters and divorced him too. 


Perhaps she never found resolution. 


Saturn in 8th house Libra exchanges with Venus in 11th house Capricorn. Saturn is 
exalted and forms a Dhana Yoga with a strong Mars. Venus is ordinary but forms no 
constructive yoga. 

Therefore, much rests on this Parivartana Yoga because, aside from the Kesari Yoga 
in kendras, there are few other yogas in this chart. 

The 8th house themes are active via: early employment in the insurance industry, 
changes in studies, work in gynecology department, irregular marital life and di- 
vorce, scientific research applied to human sexual response, and (regrettably) ex- 
periments in sexual conversion. 

Her 11th house themes are revealed through: a politician husband, a band-leader 
husband, radio work, her sociological studies and legacy, and the recent TV drama- 
tization of Masters and Johnson, which has popularized their work all over again. 
Whereas Venus is ordinary, Saturn is exalted, thus qualifying it as the control planet 
for this exchange. Its placement in the 8th house speaks to her legacy in matters of 
sexual research. 


Exchange of 8th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* 1f the 8th lord be situated in the 12th house, the native will squander his 
wealth on evil deeds, be short-lived, more so if he is in conjunction with a 
malefic planet. (BPHS 26:96) 


* In case the 12th lord is gone in the 8th house, the native will always have 
gains, will speak affably, will enjoy a medium span of life, and he will be en- 
dowed with all good qualities. (BPHS 26:140) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga (also a Viparita Yoga) wherein the lords are ina 
mutual 5/9 relationship from trik houses. Due to this dynamic, the yoga may mani- 
fest as a series of traumas and losses. 


The native is drawn to spiritual life, but may be a dilettante incapable of consistent 
efforts in his practice. He’s unable to sustain his pursuit of liberation, or moksha, 
because of distraction from sexual desires. 


He has unanticipated expenses due to accidents, insurance claims, and psycholog- 
ical or medical problems. Alternatively, he prefers to spend his money on occult 
studies or sexual indulgences. He has a powerful sexual presence, with the ability to 
charm and seduce the objects of his desire, but he lacks sexual fulfillment and is ina 
state of constant craving. 


Physically, he has problems with his feet, sexual or eliminative organs. His sleep is 
disturbed, or he gets no pleasure from sleep. His dreams may be upsetting. 


Foreign residence is problematic for him, with unexpected misfortunes in the 
course of his stay. Alternatively, he may not like foreign cultures, or have difficulty 
interacting with foreigners. A certain degree of xenophobia may exist. 


He has a heightened sensitivity, and may be intuitive, psychologically acute or 
psychic. On the flip side, he might suffer delusions or hear voices. He’s likely to be 
isolated at some point in time, either voluntarily or involuntarily. On the positive 
side, this could mean retreat into seclusion, or time spent in an ashram. On the 
negative side, it could spell prison time, hospitalization or confinement to a mental 
institution. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Czar Alexander I, Russian royalty; Melvin Belli, attorney; William Holden, actor; 
Alan Leo, astrologer; Elizabeth Montgomery, actress; Santha Rama Rau, occult 
writer; Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario, tennis pro; Jack Swigert, astronaut/politician; 
Sharon Tate, actress; Usher, singer/actor; Edgard Varese, composer; Stevie Wonder, 
musician. 


Case study 


Melvin Belli was a prominent American lawyer known as “The King of Torts.” His 
celebrity clients included Muhammad Ali, the Rolling Stones, Jim and Tammy 
Bakker, and Jack Ruby. 


After law school, his first job was undercover investigator, riding the rails as a hobo 
to observe the Depression’s effect on the country’s vagrants. 


Belli pioneered a jury-winning technique of dramatically demonstrating evidence, 
turning courtroom trials into theater, complete with props. He favored tailored 
suits, a red silk handkerchief and snake-skin boots. 


His unprecedented use of graphic evidence and expert witnesses later became com- 
mon courtroom practice. His principle of absolute liability, wherein manufacturers 
are automatically liable for injury caused by their products, set the stage for later 
consumer protection litigation. 

After winning a case, he’d raise a Jolly Roger flag over his office building (formerly a 
brothel) and fire a cannon shot to announce a victory celebration. 

Belli loved luxury homes, cars and yachts, travel and beautiful women. Most of all, 
he loved the law and authored 62 books, earning a successful second career on the 
lecture circuit. 


Belli was married six times and divorced five. In his later years, he was enmeshed 
in legal battles, facing malpractice suits and owing a mountain of debts, including 
back taxes. 


The Moon in 8th house Pisces exchanges with Jupiter in 12th house Cancer. The 
Moon forms a Viparita Yoga with Saturn. Jupiter is exalted and forms three yogas — 
a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga with the Sun, and two Dhana Yogas with Mercury. 


The 8th/12th exchange is itself a form of Viparita Yoga, and the theme of “clouds 
with silver linings” was prominent in his career. His command of torts, or personal 
injury lawsuits, was instrumental in building his reputation. For every personal in- 
jury (loss) suffered by a client, there were potential damages (gain) to be sued from 
an employer or manufacturer. 


But sometimes even such victories were hollow. Belli represented 800 women in 


a 1995 class action lawsuit against breast implant manufacturer Dow Corning. Belli 
won the case, but when Dow Corning declared bankruptcy, he couldn’t recover the 
$5 million he’d advanced to doctors and expert witnesses, and was forced to file for 
bankruptcy protection. 


Whereas the Moon is ordinary, Jupiter is exalted, thus making it the control planet 
for this exchange. Its placement in the 12th house reminds us that Belli’s life’s 
work was all about loss management - first, a client's suffering loss of wellbeing, 


but after successful litigation, loss imposed upon the manufacturer in damages 
awarded by the court. 


Exchanges involving the 9th house lord 


Exchange of 9th and 10th lords 
Parashara says: 


* if the 9th lord is placed in the 10th house, the native will be a king or equal 
to a king, or be a minister or an army chief, be virtuous and be worshipped by 
all. (BPHS 26:106) 


* Should the 10th lord occupy the 9th house, the native is born in a royal 
family and becomes a king, while as an ordinary person he will be equal to a 
king. This combination confers on him wealth and progenic happiness. (BPHS 
26:117) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga) wherein the 
lords are in a mutual 2/12 relationship. These are two of the most important and 
beneficial houses in the chart, and their reciprocal relationship is pivotal. 


The 9th is the primary house of dharma, the 10th that of karma. Thus the yoga is 
bound to manifest via larger-than-life issues involving ethics, right action, personal 
belief systems, worldly effort, social reputation and fame. 


The native is lucky and successful in life, with authority and high social reputation. 
He has a strong dharma, with an inclination to do the right thing and, thanks to 
good karma in this life, the things he does turn out well. 


He receives a higher education in religion, ethics or philosophy, and travels exten- 
sively in pursuit of his studies. He acquires a teacher, mentor or guru who is well- 
known, accomplished and/or revered. 


His father is successful, educated, wealthy, well-known and influential in some 
way that influences the native's career choice. His father may have a strong voice, 
whether literally in oratory or singing, or figuratively, as a public voice in politics. 


This exchange favors a career in academia, publishing, government and the law, or 
provides benefits through association with such fields. In whatever career, the na- 
tive appears to enjoy fortuitous circumstances that contribute to his success. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Richard Bach, writer; Kurt Browning, figure skater; Cesar Chavez, labor leader; Caryl 
Chessman, serial killer; Deepak Chopra, author; Karl Doenitz, militarist; Albert Ein- 
stein, scientist; David Frost, TV personality; King George III, British royalty; Mark 
Hamill, actor; Geri Halliwell, pop singer; John Higgins, snooker player; Peter Jen- 
nings, journalist; Ferruccio Lamborghini, automaker; Courtney Love, musician; Bela 
Lugosi, actor; Tracy Marks, astrologer; Joe Montana, football player; Marcia Moore, 
astrologer; Clifford Odets, playwright; Roy Rogers, actor; Will Rogers, humorist; 
Murray Rose, Olympic swimmer; Charles Starkweather, mass murderer; Harry S. 


Truman, US President. 


Case study 


Albert Einstein was a German-born theoretical physicist who developed the general 
theory of relativity, paving the way for 20th century physics and providing the es- 
sential structure of the cosmos. He won the 1922 Nobel Prize for his contributions 
to theoretical physics. 


He was born with a misshapen head and abnormally large body. He learned to talk 
so late his parents feared he was retarded, and he wasn’t fluent until he was nine. 


After renouncing German citizenship, he took a post at the Swiss patent office 
where he worked on his theory of relativity. E=mc? was since dubbed “the world’s 
most famous equation.” 


He moved to the USA and accepted a teaching post at Princeton University. He 
published over 300 scientific papers and 150 non-scientific works. His intellectual 
originality made “Einstein” synonymous with genius. He spent his final years work- 
ing on a unified field theory. 


Married and divorced from his first wife, he promised his future Nobel Prize money 
as part of her alimony. A musician by hobby, he gave up the violin in the last few 
years of his life, but enjoyed playing Bach and Mozart on his grand piano. 


Einstein was a passionate, committed pacifist, socialist and anti-racist. 


Jupiter in 9th house Aquarius exchanges with Saturn in 10th house Pisces. Jupiter is 
hemmed by malefics but otherwise participates in no other yoga. Saturn is part of 
a large stellium that includes the Sun with dig bala, exalted Venus and debilitated 
lagnesh Mercury, with which it forms two Dharma Karma Adhipati Yogas. 

Saturn and the three other planets in the 10th also form a Pravrajya Yoga. Although 
Einstein wasn't a particularly religious man, he was more spiritual than secular, wit- 
ness his preference to remain in academia rather than accept an offer to become the 
first President of Israel. 


9th house themes played out in his prestigious professorships in England and Amer- 


ica, his theoretical work, and his cosmology. 


10th house themes include honors and recognition via the Nobel Prize, public 
demand for speaking engagements, and his world-class reputation as a scientific 
genius. 


Since both Jupiter and Saturn are ordinary, we might think of them as coequals. 
However, we could also weigh their relative importance in the chart. Because Saturn 
forms two Raja Yogas with lagnesh Mercury, we can judge it to be the control planet 
for this exchange. Its placement in the 10th reflects his huge and lasting status as a 
scientist. 


Exchange of 9th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 9th lord be situated in the 11th house, the native will have 
financial gains day by day, be devoted to his teachers, virtuous, and be doer of 
charitable deeds. (BPHS 26:107) 


* If the 11th lord happens to be placed in the 9th house, the native will be for- 
tunate, skillful, truthful, honored by the King, and wealthy. (BPHS 26:129) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga (also a Dhana Yoga) wherein the lords are in a mu- 
tual 3/11 relationship. Because of this dynamic, there is a bias for communication, 
teaching and courageous (right) action within a larger social context, whether artis- 
tic, business or political. 


The native is successful in his spiritual pursuits, and has a guru who is a spiritual 
leader, with whom he develops a relationship like a friend. He receives honors and 
is held in high esteem by friends and social organizations. His friends, who may 
include clerics, lawyers, philosophers, professors and writers, are lucky and success- 
ful. 


His father is athletic, fortunate, wealthy, intellectual, sociable, and makes many 
short journeys. His elder siblings are very fortunate in life, enjoying good incomes 
and achieving their ambitions. 


He is very lucky in financial matters, and makes money through activities requiring 
relatively little effort, eg, through stock market investment, lotteries and other 
games of chance, or businesses that generate inordinate profits. He finds fortune in 
fields of publishing, law, travel, social media and the entertainment industry. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Honoré de Balzac, writer; Jeanne Calment, record longevity (122+ years); Gustave 
Courbet, artist; Catherine Deneuve, actress; Robert Downey Jr., actor; Roger Elliot, 
astrologer; Peter Hurkos, psychic; Al Jardine, musician; Moses Ben Maimon, philoso- 
pher; Steve McQueen, actor; Alfred de Musset, playwright; Ricky Nelson, singer; 
James Polk, politician; Erwin Rommel, militarist; Donald Rumsfeld, Defense Secre- 
tary; Queen Victoria, British royalty. 


Case study 


Erwin Rommel was a German Field Marshall in WW2, dubbed the “Desert Fox” for 
his success with the Afrika Korps. He'd originally considered becoming an engineer 
but joined the military at the request of his headmaster father, who'd served in the 
artillery. 


In WW1, Rommel earned a reputation for courage and quick decisions, was 
wounded three times, and highly decorated. His war diaries became highly re- 


garded by Hitler. 


Between wars, he headed the War Academy and wrote a textbook on military 
tactics. He believed commanders must suffer whatever hardships front-line soldiers 
faced, for the sake of troop morale. 


Rommel’s marriage was happy, and he wrote his wife a letter every day while in the 
field. 


In the invasion of France, his tank division became known as the “Ghost Division” 
because its rapid advances placed it so far forward that their actual position was 
unknown. 


He was regarded a humane and professional officer. His Afrika Korps was never ac- 
cused of war crimes, and captured Allied soldiers were treated well. During his time 
in France, he disobeyed Hitler's orders to deport Jews. 


His criticism of SS brutalities implied involvement in a failed attempt to assassinate 
Hitler. Because Rommel was a national hero, Hitler had to eliminate him quietly. 
Faced with court martial, Rommel chose forced suicide by cyanide. 


Mars in 9th house Virgo exchanges with Mercury in 11th house Scorpio. Mars as- 
sociates with lagnesh Saturn to form a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga and a Dhana 
Yoga. Mercury associates with yogakaraka Venus to create another Dharma Karma 
Adhipati Yoga. 

9th house themes are strongly in evidence: his father’s academic and military expe- 
rience, his own publications in tactical theory, his command of a military academy, 
and his profound moral courage in defying Hitler’s Nazi doctrine. 

11th house themes played out in spectacular successes over the course of two wars, 
popularity among his own troops, grudging respect from his military opponents, 
posthumous fame through the well-received movie The Desert Fox, and other hon- 
ors, eg, having a museum in Germany named after him. 

Both Mars and Mercury are ordinary. But Mars forms two yogas with lagnesh Saturn 
while Mercury forms only one with Venus. (If we look for a military analogy, we 
might note that Mars occupies higher ground.) Thus, Mars may be judged the con- 
trol planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 9th speaks to the moral code of 
an honorable warrior, for which Rommel was loved by his troops and country, and 
admired by his enemies. 


Exchange of 9th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 9th lord is situated in the 12th house, the native will incur loss of for- 
tunes, will always spend his money on auspicious acts, and will become poor 
because of spending money on entertaining guests. (BPHS 26:108) 


* Should the 12th lord occupy the 9th house, the native will dishonor his 
teachers, be inimical even to his friends, and be always intent on achieving his 
own ends. (BPHS 26:141) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 4/10 relation- 
ship. Due to this dynamic, the yoga may manifest as something of a morality play, 
wherein disregard of ethics or universal law causes a person to undermine his own 
life and thus become his own worst enemy. 


The native has a strong interest in personal development, travels in pursuit of 
academic or spiritual studies, and acquires a foreign guru. He spends money on 
seemingly worthwhile causes such as education, charity and support of his guru. 
However, unless he has exercised good moral judgment, some of these monies 
could be ill-spent on wrong causes. 


His father is a religious or spiritually-inclined man, but is psychologically distant, in 
poor health, or physically far from home. He may be engaged in unethical transac- 
tions involving vehicles or properties (the 12th is 4th from the 9th). 


The native is engaged in business abroad, undertakes long and beneficial travels, 
and assumes foreign residence. Due to his desire to achieve his own ends and no 
other, he may bring discredit upon both himself and his teachers. In the worst case, 
he may commit a crime and be imprisoned or otherwise restrained because of his 
actions. 


He is unlucky, except in sexual matters, where he enjoys wide experience, but re- 
mains ultimately unsatisfied. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Ann-Margret, actress; Bo Derek, actress; Glenn Ford, actor; Dorothy Hamill, figure 
skater; George Roy Hill, director; Eric Idle, actor; Marsha Mason, actress; Matthew 
McConaughey, actor; Martina Navratilova, tennis player; Tom Selleck, actor; Tom 
Waits, musician; Loretta Young, actress. 


Case study 


Tom Waits is an American singer-songwriter, composer and actor. One critic 
described his distinctive voice “like it was soaked in bourbon, hung in the smoke- 
house, then taken outside and run over with a car.” 


Waits’ atmospheric lyrics, written in a cynical and pessimistic tone, frequently por- 


tray grotesque and seedy characters and places. Although his albums have found 
mixed commercial success in the USA, they’ve occasionally achieved gold in other 
countries. 


After military service with the US Coast Guard, he began his career in the LA music 
scene. He put together a touring band, The Nocturnal Emissions, to cover every- 
thing from sleazy strip-show blues to supercilious lounge lizardry. He lived in mo- 
tels for years, eating bad food and drinking too much. 


One critic wrote, “A sympathetic chronicler of the adrift and downtrodden, Waits 
creates three-dimensional characters who, even in their confusion and despair, offer 
insight and startling points of view.” 


Waits has won, sometimes with substantive settlements, several lawsuits against 
advertisers using his material without permission. Separately, he also won a lawsuit 
against the LAPD. 


Waits has donated some of his legal settlements to charity. A limited edition book 
of poems raised $90,000 for a local food bank. 


Mars in 9th house Leo exchanges with the Sun in 12th house Scorpio. These two 
malefics are friends and, for this chart, lords of dharma houses. Mars forms a Dhana 
Yoga with Saturn, while the Sun is isolated. 


9th house themes have played out in a schoolteacher father who taught a foreign 
language, a mixed bag of luck in life, high principles (for some things), a philosoph- 
ical turn of mind, foreign travels and successful lawsuits. 

12th house themes are evident in his years of addiction, his rootless wandering, his 
greater professional success abroad than at home, and his donations to charitable 
causes. 


Even his touring band’s name, The Nocturnal Emissions, suggests all of the hall- 
marks of the 12th house — pleasures of the bed, sleep, sex, dreams, and unconscious 
release. 

Both the Sun and Mars are ordinary, but whereas the Sun is isolated, Mars forms 

a yoga with Saturn, thus giving it the edge for control planet of this exchange. Its 
placement (with Saturn) in the 9th reflects Waits’ cynical and pessimistic philoso- 
phy. 


Exchanges involving the 10th house lord 


Exchange of 10th and 11th lords 
Parashara says: 


* If the 10th lord is situated in the 11th house, the native is blessed with 
wealth and sons. He will enjoy happiness, be truthful, be always delighted, 
and be virtuous. (BPHS 26:119) 


* Should the 11th lord be situated in the 10th house, the native will be hon- 
ored by the king, be virtuous, devoted to his religion, truthful, and subdue his 
senses. (BPHS 26:130) 


This is a Maha Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relationship. 
The yoga may manifest in the entertainment, political, or arenas, through success- 
ful investments and resultant income. 


The native has a successful career, a good reputation and is happy with his status in 
life. He thinks big and thrives in large corporate environments. He is well connected 
with people who enjoy business success and political influence. 


He is fortunate in being able to fulfill his ambitions and materialize his dreams, and 
has the ability to inspire others to do the same. This favors careers in entertain- 
ment, inspirational speaking, financial management and social media. 


He achieves prosperity through business with the help of friends or elder siblings. 
Ironically, his elder siblings suffer losses at the hands of secret enemies. 


Because the lord of the 10th, the karma karaka, is in the 11th from whence it as- 
pects the 5th house, the individual is capable of restraining his mind and his senses 
to obey his will. As the shastras suggest, “He will subdue his senses.” 


Famous people with this yoga 


Mose Alison, musician; Princess Anne, British royalty; Josephine Baker, entertainer; 
Mike Bloomfield, musician; Bill Bradley, politician; Charles Bronson, actor; George 
Bush Sr., US President; Olivia DeHavilland, actress; Alan Dershowitz, lawyer; Glenn 
Ford, actor; George Gershwin, composer; Elliott Gould, actor; Graham Greene, 
writer; Gaylord Hauser, food advocate; George Roy Hill, director; Kirk Kerkorian, en- 
trepreneur; Amyr Klynk, adventurer; Grant Lewi, astrologer; Marcello Mastroianni, 
actor; Joan Miro, artist; Brian Mulroney, politician; John Nash, mathematician; Syd- 
ney Omarr, astrologer; Roman Polanski, director; William Rehnquist, jurist; Susan 
Sarandon, actress; Elvis Stojko, figure skater; Jack Welch, corporate executive. 


Case study 


Josephine Baker was an American-French singer and entertainer. Nude on stage, 
she was an ebony statue - sexy, dazzling and exotic. Paris adored her. Hemingway 


called her the most sensational woman anybody ever saw or ever will. 


Raised in poverty, she worked in white homes, sleeping in the basement with the 
dog. After being discovered street dancing, she went to New York and was billed as 
“the highest-paid chorus girl in vaudeville.” 


On a Paris tour, she became an overnight sensation, wearing only a skirt of bananas. 
She had a gift for communicating with the audience. Her jungle elegance onstage 
was complemented by her pet cheetah. 


Fluent in French, German, Italian and English, during WW2 she was an Allied spy. 
Post-war, she refused to perform for segregated audiences in America, and was 
once offered unofficial leadership in the Civil Rights Movement. 


She was married four times and adopted a “rainbow tribe” of 12 kids from all over 
the world. Her son claimed she was bisexual. After decades of wealth, she became 
extravagant and lost everything. Princess Grace arranged a house for her in Monte 
Carlo. After a heart attack, she recovered to make a triumphal return to the stage, 
but died four days later of a cerebral hemorrhage. 


Me 13:16 
Su i937 
Ju 2439 


Mercury in 10th house Taurus exchanges with Venus in 11th house Gemini. Mercury 
forms a Budhaditya Yoga and two Dhana Yogas with the Sun, and another two 
Dhana Yogas with Jupiter. Venus forms a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga with Mars. 


The 10th house themes are well evident via her immense public popularity, her 
tremendous social rise “from a wild little dancer with a decent voice to a magnifi- 
cent diva,” and to her positive action and effect on the cause of desegregation in 
America. 


11th house themes are revealed through troupe performance, robust income, social 
connections (Grace Kelly, Hemingway, Georges Simenon, Castro), and the civil 
rights movement. 

Whereas Mercury is combust, Venus is merely ordinary, its relative strength making 
it the control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 11th house reflects her 
status as a performing artist with a passion for the civil rights movement. 


Exchange of 10th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* [f the 10th lord is placed in the 12th house, the native will spend in royal 
courts. He will also have fear from enemies and will be worried in spite of 
being skillful. (BPHS 26:120) 


* If the 12th lord is situated in the 10th house, the native will rise through 
royal persons and will enjoy only moderate paternal bliss. (BPHS 26:142) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 3/11 rela- 
tionship. The yoga may reveal its effect through scandal or unwelcome publicity, 
whether personal or professional. 


The native is torn between the pursuits of spirituality and his career, and will there- 
fore suffer frustrations in both. “One cannot worship Lakshmi and Saraswati under 

the same roof.” Since his goals are more spiritual than mundane, he is disinclined to 
work hard for materialistic gain. 


He has difficulty finding his true career, and experiences reversals in his profession, 
losses in business, and general unhappiness in his career. His profession may involve 
isolation or rehabilitation, such as in hospitals, sanitariums, correctional institu- 
tions, or ashrams. Some aspect of his job causes worry or unrest, contributing to 
insomnia. 


His sexual reputation is exposed to the public eye, or his career may be somehow 
related to sexuality. 


He works for a multi-national company, or takes up foreign residence because of his 
career. Alternatively, his career may involve import/export or immigration. He has 
many expenses or losses in business through foreign exchange, tax deductions, cus- 
toms duties or government penalties. 


Famous people with this yoga 


Sir Claude Auchinleck, militarist; Bela Bartok, composer; Craig Breedlove, race car 
driver; Dick Cavett, talk show host; Teilhard de Chardin, paleontologist; Samuel 
Taylor Coleridge, poet; Kim Kardashian, reality show celeb; Bobby Knight, basket- 
ball coach; Alfred Von Krupp, industrialist; Janet Leigh, actress; Herman Melville, 
writer; Friedrich Nietzsche, philosopher; Arthur Schopenhauer, philosopher; Charles 
Steinmetz, scientist; Kiefer Sutherland, actor; Lee Trevino, golfer; Brenda Vacarro, 
actress. 


Case study 


Friedrich Nietzsche was a German philosopher and cultural critic who wrote on re- 
ligion, morality, contemporary culture, philosophy and science. His most important 
ideas, will to power and the Superman, champion the creative powers of the indi- 


vidual to strive beyond social, cultural, and moral contexts. 


Brought up in a strict Christian home, he was plagued by illnesses as a child, includ- 
ing migraines, violent indigestion, and moments of shortsightedness that left him 
nearly blind. He served as a medical orderly in the Franco-Prussian War, contracting 
diphtheria, dysentery and, possibly, syphilis. 


Although granted a university teaching post at age 24 he abandoned it to spend 

a decade traveling Europe, during which time he wrote his important works. He 
rubbed shoulders with cultural heavyweights of the era — Richard Wagner, Rudolf 
Steiner, August Strindberg - but never achieved in public popularity the recognition 
bestowed by his peers. 


His mental degeneration, brought on by syphilis or its contemporary cure mercury, 
resulted in delusions of grandeur and multiple personalities. He was declared in- 
sane and incarcerated for 11 years in a vegetative state until his death. 

He had never married. One theory suggests he was a homosexual in an era with no 
outlets. Separately, there was rumored incest with his sister. Ironically, she edited 
his last posthumous book, perverting his ideas to support Nazi doctrine. 


Venus in 10th house Leo exchanges with the Sun in 12th house Libra. The Sun - 
debilitated, sandhi and afflicted - forms no yoga. Venus is equally isolated. Post-ex- 
change, the Sun gains dig bala. 


Although the astrological reasons for Nietzsche’s enduring contribution to philoso- 
phy are found elsewhere, the 10th house themes played out in more modest ways: 


Early on, he was introduced to society through school where many of his classmates 
came from the best families. He achieved honors in his studies and critical acclaim 
for his ideas. He desired larger recognition but was reduced in the end to a mega- 
lomania wherein he ranked himself with other geniuses like the Buddha, Alexander 
the Great, Caesar, Voltaire, and Napoleon. 


12th house themes can be seen in frequent illness and convalescence throughout 
his life, his 10-year wandering throughout Europe, unknown sex life, mental de- 
rangement and his 11-year incarceration in an asylum. 


The Sun is debilitated whereas Venus is merely ordinary, giving it the relative 
strength to function as control planet for this exchange. Its placement in the 
10th, despite his own diminished expectations, reflects his lasting reputation. 


Exchanges involving the 11th house lord 


Exchange of 11th and 12th lords 
Parashara says: 


* Should the 11th lord occupy the 12th house, the native will always expend 
on good deeds, be sensual, will have many wives, and will have friendship with 
barbarians or foreigners in general. (BPHS 26:132) 


* In case the 12th lord is placed in the 11th house, the native will incur losses, 
in spite of having a combination of gains, and sometimes has meager gains 
through another’s wealth. (BPHS 26:143) 


This is a Dainya Parivartana Yoga wherein the lords are in a mutual 2/12 relation- 
ship. Because of this dynamic, the yoga will typically produce unrest in the realms 
of friendship, group activity and financial matters. 


The native enjoys a handsome income, but income and expenses go hand in hand, 
such that he finds it difficult to save money, and is at constant risk of significant 
debts. He has foreign sources of income, but incurs expenses related to foreign ex- 
change, customs duties or transport that erode his profits. Personal expenses are 
generally for good causes, such as support of friends, elder siblings or children. 


His close personal relationships are inconsistent, such that some friends become 
very close, while others become enemies. Included among his friends are foreign- 
ers, Spiritual seekers or bohemian types. He is lucky in fulfilling his sexual desires, 
and has a wide circle of lovers, some of whom are less than reputable. 


He may have an elder sibling who pursues spiritual liberation, or moksha. The 
sibling has little aptitude for financial management, and frequently incurs money 
problems, for which the native may assume responsibility. 


Famous people with this yoga 

Boris Becker, tennis player; Marc Bolan, musician; Fritjof Capra, physicist; Jimmy 
Carter, US President; Tony Curtis, actor; Salvador Dali, artist; Robertson Davies, 
writer; Michael Douglas, actor; Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, writer; Richard Harris, actor; 
Jesse Helms, politician; Jimi Hendrix, musician; Michael Hutchence, singer; Glenda 
Jackson, actress; Immanuel Kant, philosopher; Guglielmo Marconi, scientist; Guy 
de Maupassant, writer; Sal Mineo, actor; L’'Wren Scott, fashion designer; Upton 
Sinclair, writer; Meryl Streep, actress; Dr. Ruth Westheimer, radio shrink; Sir George 
Wilkins, explorer. 


Case study 


Dr. Ruth Westheimer is an American sex therapist, media personality and author 
best known as Dr. Ruth. She ushered in the new age of franker talk about sex on 


radio and television, and has been endlessly parodied for her enthusiasm and an ac- 
cent only a psychologist could have. 


After her father was arrested by the Nazis in pre-WW2 Germany, she was sent away 
to take refuge in a Swiss orphanage. She lost contact with her family and presumed 
they'd died in Auschwitz. At age 17 she immigrated to Israel and subsequently 

lost her virginity. She fought for Israel’s independence movement and was badly 
wounded in the foot. 


She studied and taught psychology at the Sorbonne before immigrating to New 
York where she earned a master’s degree in sociology and completed post-doctoral 
work in human sexuality. 


After being discovered giving public lectures on sex, she was invited to join a late- 
night radio talk show. Its instant popularity eventually resulted in syndication, and 
in due course she gained a syndicated TV show. 


She's appeared in several TV shows, for children and adults, and ina number of 
commercials, often using her brand name to comic effect. She’s also written three 
books on sex. 


Mars in 11th house Pisces exchanges with Jupiter in 12th house Aries. These two 
planets are friends in an ordinary state, although Jupiter is hemmed by malefics. 
Neither Mars nor Jupiter forms any contact or yoga with any other planets save each 
other, likewise, in their post-exchange positions. 


In Dr. Ruth's life, 11th house themes emerged with her involvement in political 
action for an independent Israel, her sociological studies, and her embrace of one of 
the earliest form of “social media” — radio. 


12th house themes are present as well, in the loss of her family, seeking refuge in 
exile, immigration several times over, injury to the feet, studies in psychology, and 
in her dedication to shining a light on one of the most private experiences of human 
life. 


Both Mars and Jupiter are ordinary, and form no other yogas. In this exchange, we 
might have to acknowledge there is no control planet, and the two will function as 
coequals. Their placement in the 11th and 12th, respectively, suggests her courage 
in using a public medium to counsel people in matters of sex. 


APPENDICES, BIBLIOGRAPHY, INDEX 


Appendix 1: 


Avasthas 


Table 1: Avasthas 


Exaltation sign 


Moolatrikono sign 


Own sign 
Sign of a friend 


|Shonto Peaceful Sign of a natural benefic 
saa [ower ai 


kholo Base, low Sign of a natural malefic 


Imperfect, marred 
iia [eos [sr 


Terms & definitions 


Svastha (swa) 


A planet’s own sign is that which it is deemed to rule, and in which it feels comfort- 
able, exerting its natural attributes with strength. See Table 2 below. 


Moolatrikona 


For planets owning two signs, the moolatrikona sign is considered to be the one in 
which the planet shows its best colors. General rule: a planet's moolatrikona sign 
is the male (air or fire) sign of its male/female pair. So for Mars, Jupiter, Venus 
and Saturn, their moolatrikona signs are respectively Aries, Sagittarius, Libra and 
Aquarius. The only exception is Mercury, whose moolatrikona sign is Virgo. See 
Table 2 below. 


Exaltation 


Each planet has a sign in the zodiac (which it does not own) where that planet is 
“treated like a god”, or exalted. It is always opposite its sign of debilitation. See 
Table 2 below. 


Debilitation 


Each planet has a sign in the zodiac (which it does not own) where that planet is 
“treated like a dog”, or debilitated. It is always opposite its sign of exaltation. See 
Table 2 below. 


Combustion 


Combustion occurs when a planet is in such close proximity to the Sun that it be- 
comes invisible, ie, eclipsed by the corona of the Sun. Orbs (zones) of effective com- 
bustion vary by planet. See Table 4 below. 


Planetary war 

Planetary war, or graha yuddha, occurs when two of the five natural planets are 
found within one degree of longitude of each other. By definition, the Sun and 
Moon are never involved in planetary war, nor are the Moon’s nodes Rahu and Ketu. 


Friend 


The basic rule says, two planets are friendly when the signs they own are trine to 
each other. Eg, the Sun, Mars and Jupiter are friends because their fire signs Leo, 
Aries and Sagittarius are all in a trinal (1-5-9) relationship. Similarly for the Moon, 
Mars and Jupiter whose water signs are trinal. And again for Mercury, Venus and 
Saturn, no matter whether you consider their earth signs or air signs. For some vari- 
ations, see Table 3 below. 


Enemy 
Certain planets (for reasons too complex to easily explain) are deemed inimical to 
each other's nature. See Table 3 below. 


Retrograde 

When planets in their orbits are closer to the Earth, they may temporarily appear to 
move backwards against the background of the fixed stars and the zodiac. Because 
of their relative proximity, they also appear brighter during their period of retro- 
gression and are therefore considered to exert greater effects as per their nature. 


Eclipse 

Eclipses occur when the Sun, Moon and Earth are aligned. Solar eclipses occur when 
the Moon comes between the Earth and the Sun, temporarily blocking our view of 
the Sun. Lunar eclipses occur when the Earth comes between the Sun and the Moon, 
and its shadow covers the Moon. 


Dig bala 

Technically, not an avastha as per classic definition, but a planet enjoys directional 
strength when: Mercury and/or Jupiter is in the 1st house, the Moon and/or Venus 
in the 4th, Saturn in the 7th, the Sun and/or Mars in the 10th. Under the same prin- 
ciple, Mars’ proxy Ketu gains dig bala in the 10th, while Saturn’s surrogate Rahu 
gains dig bala in the 7th. 


Table 2: Signs of ownership, exaltation & debilitation 


[wars [ies Sori 
Gemini, Virgo 


|Moon =| Sun, Mercury Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn 

ys un | ts ior [oon 

apr — [So Meo Ma [ Sm | rr 

eas | ry Sum [Ma pier Soon 
Mra Yen —[ter | ion 

he le |, « —__—s]wies = 


Table 4: Effective orbs of combustion 


Appendix 2: 


Other major yogas based on lordship 


This is not an exhaustive catalogue of yogas, rather a very limited set of definitions 
for those yogas frequently cited in Part 2, whose specifications occasionally vary 
from book to book. 


Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga 


Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga is formed when the lord of a trikona combines with 
the lord of a kendra via association or mutual aspect. Many astrologers, despite 
knowing this definition, also refer to this as a raja yoga. 


Raja Yoga 
When | use the term Raja Yoga, it's typically in the limited context of BPHS Chapter 


41, Verse 33-34: when the 5th and 9th lords are joined by association or mutual 
aspect. 


Occasionally, | will also use the same term, albeit in a more generic sense, to denote 
the yoga that is formed when (i) a trikona lord combines with one of the nodes in 

a kendra, or (ii) a kendra lord combines with a node in a trikona. In either case, the 
node acts as proxy for its dispositor which, if it were indeed present, would form a 
Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga with the other planet. 


Dhana Yoga 


Dhana Yoga is formed when the lord of a dhana/money house (2, 11) combines by 
association or mutual aspect with the lord of a trikona house (1, 5, 9). 


A more liberal definition allows any combination of lords of 1, 2, 5, 9 and 11. Thus, 
lords of 2nd and 11th could form dhana yoga. Likewise, lords of 5th and 9th could 
form it (although Parashara has already called this combo a raja yoga.) 


| prefer the more restrictive definition. Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga requires one 
planet from each of the kendra/trikona group. Similarly, Dhana Yoga should require 
one from each of the trikona/dhana groups. 


In the context of this book, Dhana Yoga is only formed with trikona and dhana lords 
in sambandha, not just two trikona lords, nor two dhana lords. 


Viparita Yoga 
A common form of Viparita Yoga arises when the lords of two trikasthanas occupy 
other trikasthanas without necessarily exchanging houses. 


Another variety of Viparita Yoga arises when trik lords combine by association or 
mutual aspect - regardless of what houses they occupy. For example, if the 6th lord 
and 8th lord are in mutual aspect from the 5th and 11th houses, that’s also Viparita 
Yoga. 

This form of Viparita Yoga is functionally “pure” only so long as the two trik lords 
don't contaminate the positive houses. This means that a third planet owning posi- 
tive houses can’t be in association or mutual aspect with either of those trik lords. 


To preserve the Viparita Yoga's classic “reversal of misfortune” theme, the two trik 
lords can only be in sambandha with each other, or in contact with a third trik lord 
or the Rahu-Ketu axis. Another trik simply keeps it in the family, while the nodes 
without lordship can’t spread collateral damage to positive houses. 


Appendix 3: 


The Statistics of Parivartana Yoga 


Methodology 


My original analysis for this thesis was made possible with the use of Lois Rodden’s 
AstroDatabank 2.1 which on its release contained 23,107 records of personal and 
mundane data. 


By filtering the original database to retain only charts with Rodden Rating “AA” (ac- 
curate data as recorded by family or state) or "A" (accurate data as quoted by the 
person, kin, friend or associate), this netted 7406 famous people, 2886 private cit- 
izens, and 4717 anonymous individuals, for a working population of 15,009 more- 
or-less-accurate charts. 


Asecond filtering process applied to these 15,009 charts identified 6403 Parivar- 
tana Yogas among them. On the surface, this implied roughly 43% of the general 
population has a Parivartana Yoga. 


An identical filtering process applied only to the 7406 “famous” people identified 
3170 Parivartana Yogas among them. As with the general population, this implied 
roughly 43% of the famous had a Parivartana Yoga. 


When I examined the individual data more closely, however, | found that a certain 
percentage of people had more than one Parivartana Yoga. Of the 3170 famous 
people with the yoga, 243 of them had more than one. 


By discarding double (and triple) counts, it turns out there were 2927 people, 
roughly 40% of the “famous” population, with one or more Parivartana Yogas. 
Because individual data inspection is time-consuming, | didn't duplicate this same 
analysis for the general population, but assumed more or less equivalent results, ie, 
that roughly 40% of people would have a Parivartana Yoga in their charts. 


Therefore, as jyotishis we should expect to see many clients with a Parivartana 


Yoga, since almost four out of 10 charts will have at least one. On the other hand, a 
chart with two or more such yogas is relatively rare, since little more than 3% of the 


population fall in this category. 


Taking this one step further, seeking charts with three Parivartana Yogas, | found 
only two people out of the 7406 famous subjects. In other words, this is rare, gener- 
ally occurring only three times out of 10,000. 


Observations 


Although I subsequently went on to examine the frequency with which the 66 vari- 
eties of Parivartana Yoga occurred in this “famous” population, a chi-squared test 
of these frequencies did not reveal anything statistically significant. However, | did 
make the following observations: 
* Of the ten Parivartana Yogas most frequently found in the charts of the 
famous, half of them (in their pre-exchange state) also form other major 
yogas, such as Dharma Karma Adhipati, Dhana and Viparita Yogas. Four out 
of ten also involve the lagnesh, arguably the most significant house lord of 
the chart. The fourth lord alone made no appearance in any of those ten 
yogas. 
* Of the ten Parivartana Yogas least frequently found in the charts of the 
famous, only two formed other major yogas. Only two out of ten involved 
the lagnesh. The fourth lord, along with the sixth lord, was best represented 
in these ten yogas. 


What can we hypothesize about the necessary prerequisites of fame, at least insofar 
as they might be indicated via Parivartana Yogas? The list is brief: 
* Parivartana Yoga takes on greater power when the two house lords partici- 
pate in other yogas. 


* Participation of the ascendant lord (identity, ego, personality) is an impor- 
tant factor in generating fame. 


* The lord of the 4th (education, ethics, happiness) is not an important factor 
in generating fame. 


Bibliography 


Agarwal, G.S. Practical Vedic Astrology. New Delhi, India: Sagar Publications, 1998. 


deFouw, Hart & Svoboda, Robert. Light on Life. London, England: Penguin Books, 
1996. 


Feuerstein, Georg. The Shambhala Encyclopedia of Yoga. Boston, USA: Shambhala 
Publications, 1997. 


Kapoor, Deepak. Prashna Shastra, Volume I. New Delhi, India: Ranjan Publications, 
1999. 


Krishnamurti, K.S. Horary Astrology: Advanced Stellar System. Madras, India: Maha- 
bala Publishers, 1970. 


Levacy, William. Beneath a Vedic Sky. Carlsbad, USA: Hay House Inc, 1999. 
Mantreswara. Phala Deepika. Translated S.S. Sareen. New Delhi, India: Sagar Publi- 
cations, 1992. 

Monier-Williams, Sir Monier. A Sanskrit-English Dictionary. New Delhi, India: Moti- 
lal Banarsidass Publishers, 2002. 

Parashara. Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, Volume |. Translated Girish Chind 
Sharma. New Delhi, India: Sagar Publications, 1995. 


Raman, BV. Three Hundred Important Combinations. Delhi, India: Motilal Banarsi- 
dass Publishers, 1997. 


Index of Case Studies 


All data can be confirmed by accessing the Astrodatabank website at http://www.as- 
tro.com/astro-databank/Main_Page 


Angelou, Maya. 04 April 1928, 14h10 CST, Saint Louis, Missouri. 

Baker, Josephine. 03 June 1906, 11h00 CST, Saint Louis, Missouri. 
Beatty, Warren. 30 March 1937, 17h30 EST, Richmond, Virginia. 

Bell, Alexander Graham. 03 March 1847, 07h00 LMT, Edinburgh, Scotland. 
Belli, Melvin. 29 July 1907, O8h00 PST, Sonora, California. 

Bernhardt, Sarah. 23 October 1844, 20h00 LMT, Paris, France. 
Bukowski, Charles. 16 August 1920, 10h00 CET, Andernach, Germany. 
Carlin, George. 12 May 1937, 11h45 EDST, New York, New York. 
Catherine, the Great. 02 May 1729, 02h30 LMT, Stettin, Germany. 
Cézanne, Paul. 19 January 1839, 01h00 LMT, Aix, France. 

Cleese, John. 27 October 1939, 03h15 GDT, Weston-super-Mare, England. 
Clinton, Hillary Rodham. 26 October 1947, O8h02 CST, Chicago, Illinois. 
Coward, Noel. 16 December 1899, 02h30 GMT, Teddington, England. 
Dass, Ram. 06 April 1931, 10h40 EST, Boston, Massachusetts. 

De Beauvoir, Simone. 09 January 1908, 04h30 LST, Paris, France. 

Dion, Céline. 30 March 1968, 12h15 EST, Charlemagne, Quebec. 

Dylan, Bob. 24 May 1941, 21h05 CST, Duluth, Minnesota. 

Einstein, Albert. 14 March 1879, 11h30 LMT, Ulm, Germany. 

Farouk, King. 11 February 1920, 22h30 EET, Cairo, Egypt. 

Farrow, Mia. 09 February 1945, 11h27 PDST, Los Angeles, California. 
Flynn, Errol. 20 June 1909, 02h25 AEST, Hobart, Australia. 

Folger, Abigail. 11 August 1943, 17h27 PDST, San Francisco, California. 
Gacy, John Wayne. 17 March 1942, 00h29 CDST, Chicago, Illinois. 
Gandhi, Indira. 19 November 1917, 23h11 IST, Allahabad, UP, India. 
Hugo, Victor. 26 February 1802, 22h30 LMT, Besancon, France. 
Johnson, Virginia. 11 February 1925, 09h30 CST, Springfield, Missouri. 
Kennedy, Ethel. 11 April 1928, 03h30 CST, Chicago, Illinois. 

Kerouac, Jack. 12 March 1922, 17h00 EST, Lowell, Massachusetts. 

King, Stephen. 21 September 1947, 01h30 EDST, Portland, Maine. 


Knievel, Evel. 17 October 1938, 14h40 MST, Butte, Montana. 

Kubler-Ross, Elisabeth. 08 July 1926, 22h45 MET, Zurich, Switzerland. 
Leno, Jay. 28 April 1950, 02h03 EST, New Rochelle, New York. 

London, Jack. 12 January 1876, 14h00 LMT, San Francisco, California. 
Madonna. 16 August 1958, 07h05 EST, Bay City, Michigan. 

Manet, Edouard. 23 January 1832, 19h00 LMT, Paris, France. 

Meher, Sri Baba. 25 February 1894, 05h00 LST, Poona, India. 

Merton, Thomas. 31 January 1915, 09h00 GMT, Prades, France. 

Minnelli, Liza. 12 March 1946, 07h58 PST, Los Angeles, California. 
Montessori, Maria. 31 August 1870, 02h40 LST, Chiaravalle, Italy. 
Navratilova, Martina. 18 October 1956, 16h40 MET, Prague, Czechoslovakia. 
Nietzsche, Friedrich. 15 October 1844, 10h00 LMT, Rocken, Germany. 
Nixon, Richard. 09 January 1913, 21h35 PST, Yorba Linda, California. 
Page, Jimmy. 09 January 1944, 04h00 GDT, Heston, England. 

Picasso, Pablo. 25 October 1881, 23h15 LMT, Malaga, Spain. 

Plath, Sylvia. 27 October 1932, 14h10 EST, Boston, Massachusetts. 
Rajneesh, Sri Bhagwan. 11 December 1931, 17h13 IST, Bhopal, MP, India. 
Richards, Keith. 18 December 1943, O6h00 GDT, Dartford, England. 
Rimbaud, Arthur. 20 October 1854, 06h00 LMT, Charleville, France. 
Rodman, Dennis. 13 May 1961, 00h10 EDST, Trenton, New Jersey. 
Rommel, Erwin. 15 November 1891, 12h00 LST, Heidenheim, Germany. 
Rudhyar, Dane. 23 March 1895, 01h00 LST, Paris, France. 

Russell, Bertrand. 18 May 1872, 17h45 GMT, Trellech, Wales. 

Schubert, Franz. 31 January 1797, 13h30 LMT, Vienna, Austria. 

Silkwood, Karen. 19 February 1946, 21h50 CST, Longview, Texas. 
Snowden, Edward. 21 June 1983, 04h42 EDST, Elizabeth City, North Carolina. 
Spillane, Mickey. 09 March 1918, 00h10 EST, Brooklyn, New York. 

Susann, Jacqueline. 20 August 1918, 19h25 EDST, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Swift, Taylor. 13 December 1989, 20h46 EST, Wyomissing, Pennsylvania. 
Trump, Ivana. 20 February 1949, 00h55 MET, Gottwaldov, Czechoslovakia. 
Turner, Lana. 08 February 1921, 12h30 PST, Wallace, Idaho. 

Turner, Ted. 19 November 1938, 08h50 EST, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Turner, Tina. 26 November 1939, 22h10 CST, Nutbush, Tennessee. 

Waits, Tom. 07 December 1949, 07h25 PST, Pomona, California. 


Westheimer, Dr. Ruth. 04 Jun 1928, 04h00 MET, Karlstadt, Germany. 
Windsor, Queen Elizabeth. 21 April 1926, 02h40 GDT, London, England. 
Winfrey, Oprah. 29 January 1954, 04h30 CST, Kosciusko, Mississippi. 


About the Author 


Alan Annand is a Canadian astrologer, accredited by the American College of Vedic 
Astrology and the British Faculty of Astrological Studies. 


He consults, teaches and writes a monthly blog on a range of topics ~astrological 
techniques, celebrity profiles and mundane events. 
His NEW AGE NOIR crime series (Scorpio Rising, Felonious Monk, Soma County) 
features astrologer and palmist Axel Crowe, whom one reviewer dubbed “Sherlock 
Holmes with a horoscope.” 


Websites: www.navamsa.com, www.sextile.com 


