STELLAR ASTROLOGY 
by 
ALAN ANNAND 


VOL.1&2 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Preface 


Essays 

- Monday | had Friday on my mind 

- Do you, Jennifer, take this juniper? 

- The Moon also rises 

- Hitler’s demon & Hillman’s “Acorn Theory” 
- Palmistry and the planets 

- Vedic astrology & career selection 


Celebrity watch 

- The tragic death of Mike Tyson’s daughter 

- Tiger, Tiger, blushing bright in the media spotlight 
- Charlie Sheen: two and _a half demons 

- Naomi Campbell: model behavior 

- Larry King: walkin’ the talk 

- Viparita Yoga: Alanis Morissette’s jagged little pill 
- Leonard Cohen: he's your man 

- Will & Kate look great! 

- Amy Winehouse: filthy- mouthed down-to-earth diva 
- Whitney Houston: pop diva supreme 

- Welcome to the Demi-monde 

- Pattinson & Stewart: lovers in the twilight zone 

- Justin Bieber: little boy bad 

- Taylor Swift: teardrops on my quitar 


- Lindsay Lohan: fully loaded 

- Oscar Pistorius: blade running for his life 

- Miley Cyrus & Pop Tarts Anonymous 

- Michael Schumacher: an accidental irony 
- Robin Williams’ divine spark of madness 

- Lady Gaga rides a big snake 

- Kanye West: the mouth that roared 


Mundane matters 
- Frozen Warriors: Napoleon & Hitler in Russia 


- The Yorkshire Ripper: a study in stellar forensics 
- Osama bin Laden: from death to birth 


- Bombs in Boston and combust Mars 

- The Tsarnaev brothers and their malefics 

- Britain on the butcher's block 

- Edward Snowden: a deer hunted out of season 
- The “Charlie Hebdo” terror attacks 


Personal 


- The Jyotish Starinterview 
- My practice of Vedic astrology 


Appendices 
- Birth data of individuals 


- Timing of mundane events 
About the author 


Alan Annand is a Canadian astrologer and palmist with an education spanning both 
eastern and western astrology. He has diplomas from the American College of Vedic As- 
trology, as well as the British Faculty of Astrological Studies for whom he was their North 

American correspondence tutor for several years. 


He is also a writer of crime fiction, including his NEW AGE NOIR series (Scorpio Rising, 
Felonious Monk, Soma County) featuring astrologer and palmist Axel Crowe, whom 
one reviewer has dubbed “Sherlock Holmes with a horoscope.” 


Websites: www.navamsa.com, www.sextile.com 


Preface 


When | picked up my first astrology book four decades ago, little did | know what effect 
it would have on my life. Almost immediately, after calculating my chart, | got a glimpse 
of my Self-realization — that | might become, not only the writer whose first tentative 
efforts were finding their way onto paper, but also an astrologer. 

Since then, I’ve pursued that tandem track throughout the rest of my life, even during 
and despite two decades of “corporate servitude’ in the interests of all that is mundane 
in most people's lives — the need to provide income, housing, education and other ne- 
cessities for both myself and my family. 


Astrology opened doors in so many ways for which | am grateful. | visited places | might 
never have gone except in the pursuit of my studies. | made valued and lasting friend- 
ships among my fellow students. | studied with remarkable teachers whose words en- 
lightened, inspired and guided me. 

Truly, /yotish is the science of light — one that illuminates both what lies within and what 
lies without. | thank my teachers for having shown me the way, my fellow students for 
joining me on the journey, and my clients for having shared so much of their experiences 
and confirmed the insights of astrology. 


Per ardua ad astra. 


ESSAYS 


Monday | had Friday on my mind 


Most people never think about it, but every day of the week is associated with one of the 
seven visible planets. Our ancestors acknowledged their role in our lives, and named the 
days in their honor. 


Sunday, named for the Sun, is associated with power. It’s the day to pursue ambitions, 

organize events, seek favor from authorities, extend reasonable loans, advance educa- 

tion, sign or register documents, and enter business partnerships related to administra- 
tion or government. Planning a coup? Make it a Sunday, when the President is sleeping 
in. 


Monday, for the Moon, supports nurturing. It’s a good day to socialize with women and 
youngsters, use intuition, pursue romance, make public speeches, travel by water, buy 
or sell food, household articles and ornaments, or start a business related to hotels or 
restaurants. Love your Mom? Buy her a new dishwasher on Monday. 


Tuesday (French: mardi), deferring to Mars, often entails conflict and cruelty. So it’s the 
day to fix targets, take action, give orders, administer discipline, file lawsuits, declare 
war, purchase land, or start a business related to machinery, engineering, or heavy 
transport. Hate your siblings? On a Tuesday, file a lawsuit alleging mental cruelty. 


Wednesday (French: mercredi), honoring Mercury, invokes communications and com- 
merce. It’s the day to write letters, sign documents, memorize things, gather new ideas, 
engage in commerce, study, make speeches, purchase lottery tickets, stocks or bonds, 
or start a media-related business. Writing a bestseller? Whip it off on a Wednesday. 


Thursday (French: jeudi), favoring Jupiter, is about luck and creativity. It’s the day to ask 
for favors, pursue legal matters, religion, philosophy, invest in your future, create a child, 
travel, enter contracts including marriage, or start a business related to travel, education 
or publishing. Starting a new religion? Publish your manifesto on a Thursday. 


Friday (French: vendredi), in honor of Venus, favors arts and luxuries. It’s the day to 
entertain, pursue romance, use charm to further your ambitions, be artistic and creative, 
purchase jewelry and ornaments, decorate, buy a vehicle, or start a business in fashion, 
art, cosmetics, or entertainment. Declaring your love? On a Friday, buy your sweetie a 
jewel-encrusted luxury vehicle. 


Saturday, on behalf of Saturn, brings aging, labor and the unpleasant realities of life. 
It’s the day to assume responsibilities, take your time, expect delays, make long-range 
plans, or start a business related to mines and metals, insurance, agriculture, antiques, 
funeral homes. Digging for gold? Break ground on a Saturday. 


Seriously, how can you use such information in a practical way? A general rule is to take 
care of the “dirty work” on days of the malefic planets - Sunday, Tuesday and Saturday. 
But if you want to negotiate anything or ask for favors, choose a “communication” day of 
the benefic planets - Wednesday or Thursday. Or if you want to promote love or affec- 
tion, choose a “relational” day of the benefic planets — Monday or Friday. 


This especially applies to weddings. Marriage is about love and affection, and the tradi- 
tional choice of Saturday is practically the worst day of the week, because Saturn is cold 
and distant, exactly the opposite of marriage’s objectives — closeness and warmth. So if 
you want marriage to last, try to schedule the wedding for a Friday, the day of Venus rul- 
ing affection, love and sexuality. And don’t forget the diamond-studded sports car. 


Do you, Jennifer, take this juniper...? 


Jyotish, the science of light, otherwise known as Vedic Astrology, gives foresight, insight 
and hindsight into all affairs of mankind. 


It can also lead us into some alternative points of view, where problems and their solu- 
tions are seen in the light of a different model. It’s not that jyotish controls life, but it has 
a unique way of interpreting it. 


An astrological birth chart is a map of your karma. It indicates inherent dispositions, 
what an ayurvedin (Vedic physician) would call prakruti, or essential nature — which for 
ayurveda’s purpose is mostly physical, although related to personality. 


On quite another level, jyotish is often used to identify and assess the inherent dispo- 
sition — and progression — of the psyche that animates the physical body. Jyotish is 
particularly interested in what life experiences the spirit or soul seeks in order to feel ful- 
filled, and what fruit it plucks from the tree of life. 


We sometimes see in a birth chart that the 7th house of relationships is weak, meaning 
partnership and marriage will bring unhappiness. But just as there’s a place in the chart 
to find the first marriage, there’s another for the second or third marriage. And if that 
house is strong, it promises happiness. 


Suppose my client Jennifer is single but has a weak 7th house, meaning her first mar- 
riage will be unhappy. But she has a strong second house, meaning her following mar- 
riage would be happy. 


Hmm... If marriage were like a series of meals, she could rush through one to get to the 
other. But marriage is a contract with another person, and in the real world, that relation- 
ship ends only in death or divorce. But Jennifer doesn't want to get divorced. 


Faced with such a dilemma, the jyotishi must devise a symbolic act. In the Vedic world, 
ritual is a living tradition. And although one half of the world might call this magic, the 
other half understands it is simply an attempt to influence something on another level. 


An upaye is a ritualistic act intended to satisfy logic at a causal rather than a phenomenal 
level. If we accept the premise that every action is preceded by a thought, we admit 
that thoughts can change the world. So when thought is accompanied by action and 
strengthened by intention, we really are causing a ripple. And sometimes that’s all it 
takes. 


2nd marriage 
{ORPAETE RS SHARES ERS 8th from 7H: 
2H supported 


3 
Ewa er A by 3 benefics 


Ast marriage 
7H afflicted by 
every malefic 


1 1 
‘ i 3rd marriage 


Suppose the above is our client’s hypothetical birth chart. Note the 7th house ham- 
mered by malefics — occupied by Sun and Rahu, Mercury made malefic by association, 
and all aspected by both Mars and Saturn. For icing on the cake, the 7th and 8th lords 
are in exchange. Granted, it’s a mess, and so we expect the first marriage to result in 
unhappiness. 


By contrast, note the 2nd house which, being 8th from the 7th, signifies the death of the 
first marriage and the birth of the second marriage. Jupiter is in its own sign, associated 
with a full moon, and aspected only by Venus. It’s a dream come true! And so we expect 
the second marriage to bring happiness. 


Seeing this, the jyotishi would like to facilitate a symbolic first marriage, see the death 
of it, and then let his client get on with her happy prospects as shown in the second 
marriage. 


Thus inspired, he sets aside Jennifer’s chart and goes to the nearest gardening centre. 
There he picks the runt from a litter of shrubs and at the next opportunity, introduces 

it to Jennifer. She pays for the shrub, and a brief courtship follows. On the next dark 
moon, the jyotishi performs a wedding. 


(Kids, don’t try this at home. If you want a marriage to succeed, do it when the moon is 
relatively full, between first quarter and a day after the full moon. Remember, in Jennifer’s 
case only, the jyotishi intentionally engineers a bad start to a marriage by conducting it 
on anew moon.) 

After the wedding, Jennifer takes the shrub home and places it in her bedroom. She 
waters it, she talks to it, she reveals her naked body to it, she kisses it good night. 

She waters the shrub for eight months, and then she waters it no more. The shrub 
begins to die — its limbs droop, its leaves wither. Sne cries the day she knows it’s over. 
Jennifer is now a widow. 


Jennifer cremates the remains of her “first husband” and enters a period of mourning. 
Then she starts dating again and, within a season, finds the love of her life — the “second 


husband” who was promised by the strong second house in her birth chart. 


And just in case that one doesn’t stick, we can always look at Jennifer’s ninth house for 
her third marriage. (Subsequent marriages are always seen eight houses away from the 
house that signifies the preceding marriage.) 


Now, in fact, I’ve described this in a light-hearted manner, all in the name of infotain- 
ment, but the practice is entirely real. In India, where modernity sleeps with the ancient 
without guilt, a number of Bollywood actresses over the past few years have had 
“doomed” first marriages arranged with peepul and banana trees, or clay urns, all of 
which were divorced or came to a sorry end, simply to make way for a better mate next 
time around. 


But does this work every time? Absolutely. One of my clients has invested in a nursery, 
and another now lives in the woods. 


The Moon also rises 


Is there anything more cursed in the life of an astrologer than a client without a birth 
time? 

Granted, it’s a splendid scapegoat that allows us to tell the client, “Gosh, without know- 
ing your ascendant, | can’t really tell if you’re ever going to get married,” but for most of 
us who take our roles seriously, we’d actually prefer to offer some sort of prognosis and/ 
or counsel. 


Certainly, specific issues like “Will | ever get married?” beg for the application of horary 
astrology, but that’s not the topic du jour. Whether or not a horary chart will resolve the 
marital question, we'd still like to have something approximating the natal chart to get a 
reading on all the other spoken/unspoken themes in the life of that client. 


In western astrological practice, the traditional alternative is to prepare a “solar chart.” 
Typically, this means calculating the birth chart for the time of local sunrise, which places 
the sun exactly on the ascendant. An alternate method is to calculate the birth chart 

for noon, ie, the half-way point of a calendar birthday that’s measured from midnight 

to midnight. Then we manually rotate the chart to place the Sun in the position of the 
ascendant. 


The only real difference between these two options is that in the approximate six hours 
between “sunrise” and “noon”, the Moon will move about three degrees of arc. That 
could move the Moon in or out of orb in certain aspects, but the rest of the planets will 
be little affected, and you'll have a reasonable proxy for an accurate birth chart. 


Vedic (Hindu) astrologers apply a different strategy, and one that western astrologers 
could as easily adopt. In Vedic astrology, the Moon sign is far more important than the 
Sun sign. Not only does the Moon drive the system of “planetary periods” unique to 
Hindu astrology, but it is seen as more descriptive than the Sun of the client’s physi- 
Cality, personality and psychology. The Moon represents our emotional mind, a sort of 
“operating system” that records and assesses all sensory input, and has a huge influ- 
ence on our likes/dislikes, our day-to-day personality, and our relationship with the world 
around us. By contrast, the Sun has more to do with our ego, ideals and projections on 
the world. 


Furthermore, the Moon is a more potent individuating factor than the Sun. The reason 
we want a birth time in the first place is so we can launch our interpretation from the 
most dynamic, ie, fastest-moving, factor in the chart. The ascendant changes every two 
hours. Knowing it helps us make distinctions between people born on the same day. 

In the absence of Knowing the ascendant, the next fastest-moving element in the chart 
is the Moon. Launching our interpretation from the Moon-as-ascendant helps us make 
meaningful distinctions between a dozen Aries-born spread over the period March 21st 
to April 20th. 


So how do we prepare a Moon-rising chart? If the client has some idea of birth-time, 


say “sometime in the afternoon”, then we can define afternoon as Noon to 6pm, split 
the difference and guesstimate the birth-time as 3pm. If the client doesn’t have a clue 
whether his/her birth was morning, noon or night, then we calculate the chart for noon. 
In either event, once you calculate the chart, rotate it to treat the Moon as ascendant, 
and interpret from that perspective. 


Even when Vedic astrologers know the ascendant, they still routinely rotate the chart in 
their minds to treat the Moon as if it were rising. Why? Because this fresh perspective 
from the next-most-dynamic element of the chart often provides useful corroboration 
of some natal themes, and in some instances, functions as a tie-breaker in an inter- 
pretation that otherwise gets hung up on conflicting evidence from the ascendant-only 
perspective. 


As my yoga teacher used to tell me: “Why not stand on your head? The worst that can 
happen is you'll see the world in a different way.” 


Hitler’s demon & Hillman’s “Acorn Theory” 


As astrologers, we’re often cast in the role of oddballs, out on the fringe of society’s 
“healing arts” professions. Unconsciously or not, this has given some of us a collective 
insecurity complex, such that we’re frequently found clinging to the hem of the Estab- 
lishment’s skirts, pleading for recognition like some little kid in need of a hug. 


Little wonder that, when the least evidence of our legitimacy comes to light, we embrace 
it with all the fervor of a re-born Christian who hears the Messiah is coming to town. The 
last time this happened was in the 70s, when the research of French statisticians Michel 
and Francoise Gauquelin turned up “significant” evidence that the angular positions 

of planets had a bearing on professions. Since then, however, we’ve wandered in the 
wilderness with little more than faith to keep us going. 


James Hillman 


Today there is, if not a Messiah, at least a kindred voice on the scene, in the person of 
James Hillman — Jungian psychologist, scholar, and author of twenty-plus books, one 
of which should be required reading for all astrologers. The Soul's Code: In Search of 


back version. On the copyright page, its catalogue headings are listed as: (1) Individual- 
ity, (2) Individuality in children, (3) Fate and fatalism, and (4) Gifted persons. 


Hillman’s central thesis, illustrated by several fine biographical sketches, is that “remark- 
able” people, ranging from serial killers to renowned artists, are born, not made. This 
flies in the face of conventional psychological wisdom which says that early childhood 
conditioning is the greatest determinant of what a person will make of themselves 

years down the road. To the contrary, Hillman asserts that it is “neither nature nor 
nurture” (neither genetics nor environment) that dictates the outcome of a life. Rather, it 
is an innate quality possessed by each person, the spark of individuality that, like a mas- 
ter code for a person’s life, determines the direction in which he will pursue his destiny. 


Hillman favors the Greek term daimon as a substitute for the complementary notions of 
“guardian angel”, spirit, or soul, all of which imply an over-arching intelligence that pro- 
vides a road map for the life. This is the “soul’s code.” Thanks to the daimon, the adult’s 
true fate is already known to the child, and it is this knowledge that guides the child 
unerringly, despite all the obstacles imposed by parental and societal norms, in the in- 
evitable direction of its fate. 


Hillman calls this his “acorn theory”, which proposes that each life is animated by a par- 
ticular image that calls it to its destiny. Plant an acorn in a corn field, it produces an oak, 
not a corn stalk. Let mother encourage or discourage, it makes no matter, the little child- 
soul knows where it’s going and will have its way in time. The daimon is in the driver's 
seat. 


Readers with an appreciation for astrology might well wonder whether the “soul’s code”, 


this animating image conferred by fate, could be an academic euphemism for the as- 
trological birth chart. Although Hillman never gives his readers an explicit nod in this di- 
rection, his occasional references to astrology encourage us to believe that he is familiar 
with its basic principles and practices. He is perhaps even sympathetic when he says, 
“There is in each of us a longing to see beyond what our usual sight tells us. A revelation 
of the invisible in an intelligible form leads us to the astrologer.” 


Adolf Hitler 

Hillman devotes a whole chapter to a discussion of Hitler, and how the major themes of 
the dictator’s personal life epitomize the key features of a soul driven by its internal code 
to meet its fate. Hillman’s exposure of Hitler’s character, in a chapter called The Bad 
Seed, focuses upon several psychological elements that symbolize typical descriptions 
of evil, death and destruction — manifestations of the demonic. 


Each of these themes is briefly summarized in the following sections. By standing on the 
shoulders of Hillman’s thesis, I’ve attempted to link each of Hitler’s demonic traits to its 
astrological correlate, thus demonstrating what all astrologers implicitly believe — that the 
soul’s code is indeed locked in the chakra of the birth chart. 

Adolf Hitler was born 20 April 1889, at 6:30 PM in Braunau, Austria. Birth data courtesy 
Astro-Databank. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zo- 
diac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Adolf Hitie 
18h30, 20 Apr 1889 4 Sa 2109 
Braunau, Austra 1 
Me o321 
SU 0830 


In Hitler’s case, his particular daimon manifested via these vital signs: 


The Cold Heart 


In the paradigm of the demonic, the cold heart beats ... slow but sure. According to 
Dante, the pit of hell is a realm of ice inhabited by the arch-criminals of mankind. The 
Devil has an icy penis and cold semen. Hitler greatly admired Goering, who even in the 
toughest of times, remained ice-cold. In one of his last speeches, Hitler proclaimed that: 
“Come what may, my heart remains ice cold.” Psychologically, an icy heart manifests 
as rigidity, an inability to change. Throughout his life, Hitler was obstinate in his opin- 


ions, tastes, behaviors, and habits. He wore the same clothes until they disintegrated, 
watched the same movies over and over again, and followed his daily routines with a 
slavish consistency that bordered on the obsessive. 


Astrologically, the heart is seen in the 4th house. Its lord is Saturn, a cold and distant 
planet. From its vantage point in the 10th house, Saturn aspects the 4th house, the as- 
cendant lord Venus, and the Sun, Karaka (significator) for the heart itself. In the navamsa 
(9th harmonic chart) where Saturn occupies its own sign, the ascendant and seven out 
of nine planets are in fixed signs. Hitler was also born on a Saturday. 


Hellfire 


Fire is amore common image of hell, one in which the demonic character revels. Hitler’s 
career is backlit by flames — the Reichstag fire, the torch-lit night marches of the Brown- 
shirts, the ovens of the Holocaust, the firebombing of Dresden, even his own gasoline- 
charred body at the end. Fire was unleashed in all its destructive fury through the agency 
of his destiny. 


Astrologically, his chart glows with fire. In the rashi (birth) chart, seven out of nine planets 
reside in fire signs. His ascendant lord Venus is in Aries, the epitome of fire, along with 
the two warrior planets Sun and Mars, one exalted, the other in its own sign. Along with 
Mercury, all four planets in the 7th house aspect the ascendant. The Moon is also in 
fiery Sagittarius in association with its lord Jupiter. The planetary war between Mars and 
Venus takes place in Aries. 


Wolf 


If every spirit has its animal familiar, that of the demon is the wolf. In his early days, Hitler 
called himself Herr Wolf. “Adolf” itself was derived from Athalwolf, or noble wolf. His fa- 
vorite pets were Alsatians, also Known as wolfshunde. He referred to the SS as his pack 
of wolves, and his U-boat wolf packs were the scourge of Allied shipping. 


In astrology, the bestial signs are Aries, Taurus, Leo, the second half of Sagittarius and 
the first half of Capricorn. In Hitler’s rashi chart, six out of nine planets are placed in 
these sign zones. Both pets and military forces are seen in the 6th house, whose lord is 
Jupiter, associated with Ketu, the karaka for dogs, in the bestial half of Sagittarius. 


Anality 


In the realm of the demonic, the anus is the center of the erogenous universe. The Mar- 
quis de Sade relished anal eroticism. The devil’s face was often depicted on his rear end 
in medieval woodcuts, and the interrogators of the Inquisition frequently coaxed con- 
fessions from devil worshippers via “the back door.” As a vegetarian chocaholic, Hitler 
suffered from meteorism, a severe form of flatulence. He also gave himself enemas and 
was rumored to engage in coprophilia with his sexual partners. 


In the rashi chart, the anus is signified by the 8th house. The ascendant and 8th lord 


Venus is, as noted earlier, severely afflicted in the 7th house, including a planetary 

war with Mars and aspect from Saturn, karaka for the anus. The 8th house is further 
hemmed by malefics. From the Chandralagna (moon = ascendant), karaka Saturn oc- 
cupies the 8th, wherein it is in mutual aspect with Mars. 


Suicides of Women 


Caution: exposure to the demonic can be hazardous to your health. Hitler had few 
intimate relations with women, but almost every one of them paid a heavy price. Six 

of them either killed themselves or made desperate attempts to do so. Mimi Reiter, a 
teenage girl, tried to hang herself when the 37-year-old Hitler broke off their relationship. 
His niece Geli Raubal, reputedly the love of his life, killed herself. Eva Braun shot herself 
unsuccessfully in 1932, but recovered to die at his side in 1945. After loving the devil, 
was it all downhill after that? 


In Hitler’s rashi chart, the 7th house is powerfully afflicted. Although the 7th lord Mars 

is strong, it is afflicted by Sun and Saturn. It is also associated with dusthana (houses 
6-8-12) lords Mercury and Venus, and receives the aspect of the other dusthana lord 
Jupiter. Venus as karaka for relationships is hammered by a trio of malefics, including 
Mars, to whom it loses the planetary war. Venus in the 7th house also constitutes a case 
of karako bhavo nashto (a planet which is both karaka and occupant of the house that 
signifies a person — in this case, spouse), thus spoiling relationships. From the Chan- 
dralagna, the Rahu/Ketu axis occupies the 1st and 7th houses, and the 7th lord Mer- 
Cury comes under overpowering affliction from three malefics. 


Freaks 


The history of demonology depicts half-human figures, eg, gargoyles and the grotesque 
creations of Hieronymous Bosch, as menacing figures that threaten our normal world. 
For Hitler, however, they served as icons of a new world order. His two favorite movies 
were King Kong and Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. His staff and entourage in- 
cluded a huge number of freaks. Within the upper Nazi echelon, Goebbels had a club 
foot, Bormann was an alcoholic, Hess was a paranoiac, Goering was a morphine addict, 
the commander of the labor camps had a speech defect, and the Brownshirt leader 
who succeeded Roehm was one-eyed. Further down the pecking order, his personal 
chauffeur was a midget, his press manager was one-armed, his assistant press chief 
was deaf, and his official photographer was an alcoholic with a deformed back. Mean- 
while, the whole country was drilled to perform weird goose-stepping and stiff-armed 
salutes. 


Staff and subordinates are seen in the 6th house. Its lord Jupiter is in Sagittarius in the 
8rd house with Moon and Ketu. Sagittarius, as noted earlier, is one of the half-human, 


four planets in Aries occupy the 2nd with multiple malefic influences, which suggests 


substance abuse and defective speech or vision, as exemplified by his coterie of drug 
addicts, alcoholics, the one-eyed and the speech-impaired. From the 6th house, Venus 
becomes the severely damaged lord of the relative 3rd, which suggests upper limb and 
hearing problems, as exemplified by the one-armed and deaf. 


Humorlessness 


The Devil takes himself seriously, and damned be those who don’t accord him respect. 
As Jagger sings in Sympathy for the Devil: “If you meet me, have a little courtesy, have 
a little sympathy and a little taste. Use all your well-learned politesse, or I'll lay your 
soul to waste.” Under the sway of his own particular daimon, Hitler had absolutely no 
sense of humor, for it was antithetical to his general bias for the grandiose. He scarcely 
ever enjoyed a hearty laugh, and forebade risqué jokes in his presence. 


Astrologically, humor or word-play is seen via Mercury, the 2nd house and the dth 
house. In Hitler’s chart, Mercury is severely afflicted in the 7th house. Among the 
malefics assaulting it are Mars and Saturn, lords of the 2nd and 5th respectively, who 
are themselves involved in mutual antagonism. From the Chandralagna, Saturn and 
Mars are again the lords of the relative 2nd and 5th, reinforcing the theme of suppres- 
sion. On a more esoteric note, the lords of all three Jagnas are in fierce nakshatras (27 
sub-signs of the zodiac) suggesting a further bias towards (deadly) seriousness. 


Conclusion 


The Soul’s Code is about one’s calling, fate, character and innate image, notions encap- 
sulated in the term daimon. Hillman’s “acom theory” suggests that “each person bears 
a uniqueness that asks to be lived and that is already present before it can be lived.” 
Doesn't this sound remarkably like prarabdha karma, that portion of our total karma that 
has ripened, and is ready for manifestation in this life? 


In Sanskrit, the planets are called grahas, those which have the power to seize. In the 
birth chart, the planets are forces for both the divine and the demonic, and their respec- 
tive conditions determine which way the balance tips. Hitler was seized by his daimon 
from an early age. Indeed, his whole life appeared to have been mapped out for him to 
such an extent that he himself commented: “I go the way Providence dictates for me 
with all the assurance of a sleepwalker.” 


As Hillman notes, the old Greeks said of their gods: “They ask for little, only that they not 
be forgotten.” And in practice, this is why many Vedic astrologers, prior to an astrological 
analysis or consultation, invoke the navagraha (the nine planets) via a brief mantra, thus 
honoring the planetary deities in the birth chart, within wnose chakra we read the soul’s 


heart and pur ose, 
Highlighters 


Palmistry and the planets 


“About astrology and palmistry: they are good because they make people vivid and 
full of possibilities. They are communism at its best. Everybody has a birthday and al- 
most everybody has a palm.” ~ Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. 


In the western world, if you tell people you’re an astrologer, they’ll say, “Can you guess 
my sun sign?” In India, they’ll more likely offer their palms for comment. So what's going 
on between these two cultures, and why are their perspectives so different? 


The West likes to separate things and categorize them, while the East likes to embrace 
things and find relationships. For a westerner, astrology is astronomy applied to the 
affairs of man. An astrological chart is a snapshot of where all the planets were — above 
and below the horizon — at the minute and place of your birth. The sign in which the sun 
is located within that snapshot is just one of many other factors in the birth chart. 


For residents of the Indian sub-continent and its largely Hindu culture, astrology is a pre- 
eminent tool in the hands of a seer whose considerable toolkit also includes palmistry, 
facial diagnosis, body markings, ayurveda, omens, sounds, numerology and myth. 


If you tell an Indian you’re an astrologer, it’s the equivalent of saying you’re a seer. They 
expect you to have received from your guru a well-rounded education in all the ways 
and means by which a seer could “read” an individual. To say you can’t read palms 
would be like a western doctor admitting he didn’t know how to provide a basic physi- 
cal examination. 


Astrologers in the west don’t have a strong palmistry tradition, but many of them do 
practice tarot and | Ching (both forms of omenology), as well as numerology. This is a 
good thing, even if only because it helps the consultant become more than just a “one- 
trick pony” and thus allows a second perspective that can inform the consultant’s coun- 
sel or prediction. 


Palmistry has long been associated with Gypsies, and it’s generally accepted by histori- 
ans that they carried it from India to Europe. Because of the deep and intertwined roots 
of both astrology and palmistry in the Vedas — the sacred scriptures of Indian Vedic cul- 
ture — palmistry is intimately infused with astrological concepts, the knowledge of which 
can provide the trained consultant in recognizing patterns in the karma — the overall 
sheath of cause and effect that envelops the life. 


Jyotish, or Vedic astrology, is a vedanga, one of the six ancillary limbs of the Vedas. Jy- 
otish means “science of light” and it simultaneously implies both the light of the planets 

as seen against the starry background of the skies, but also the inner light demanded of 
the seer to make sense of the patterns seen in those same planets and stars, and to in- 
terpret them in light of human affairs. 


Jyotish is in turn divided into several aspects: observational astronomy, celestial ge- 


ometry, natal (birth) astrology, horary (Q&A) astrology, elective (planning) astrology, and 
omens, or nimitta. 


Nimitta itself is further divided into another eight types, one of which is anga, or the 
analysis of limbs, of which the hands are the most unique and individual. Palmistry itself 
is called Hasta Samudrika Shastra, which can be loosely interpreted as the knowledge 
of the ocean of signs and symbols found in the hand. 


A palmist approaches his subject in stages, moving from the gross to the subtle. With 
palmistry, one begins to analyze hands from across the room via shape of palm and 
length of fingers. As we come closer and touch the hand, we note skin texture, temper- 
ature, moisture, color, flexibility. We can then examine the palm itself for the length and 
shape of major and minor lines, and look closer still to study the nails and fingerprints... 


The major elements of the hand are associated with astrology’s main players — the 
planets that move across the zodiac in a unique passion play reflecting the life of man. In 
classical astrology, these are the Sun and Moon, the so-called luminaries, as well as the 
five visible planets — Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. Although telescopes of 
one kind or another have progressively revealed the presence of outer planets — Uranus, 
Neptune and Pluto — not to mention thousands of asteroids in our solar system, these 
do not play a role in classical astrology or palmistry. 


A quick glance at the hand schematic shown here will suffice to map out the major ele- 
ments of the hand that are in turn associated with the seven visible celestial bodies. 


My first encounter with palmistry occurred around age fifteen when | read lan Fleming’s 
Casino Royale, in which James Bond in one scene examined the hand of a woman 


he’d met, palpating her “mount of Venus” to assess her sexual vigor. From that point 
on, | was definitely intrigued, and it was thereafter an open question as to whether I'd 
become a spy or a palmist. Luckily for the world of international espionage, | chose the 
path | did, but I’m still as interested as ever in checking out the mount of Venus. Indeed, 
basic palmistry protocol suggests one should start with the thumb, indisputably the 
most important digit on the hand. 


Sir Isaac Newton was reputed to have remarked, “In the absence of any other proof, 
the thumb alone would convince me of God's existence.” The function of the thumb, as 
opposing digit to the four others, gives it a unique and remarkable role in the hands of 
all primates and thus allows the use of tools without which mankind could never have 
evolved to such a degree. 


The mount of Venus is located in the large muscle within the palm at the base of the 
thumb, its limits defined by the “life line” that curves around that quadrant of the palm. 
As James Bond understood, it is indeed a measure of vitality, both in its literal sense of 
bodily vigor, but equally so in the sense of a vital personality, or a life of vitality. 


In astrology, Venus rules the signs of Taurus and Libra, which are associated respec- 
tively with the physical comforts of life such as money, food, clothing and all ornamen- 
tation, but also the less tangible comforts of life, in the form of family, personal and 
social relationships. In Sanskrit, Venus is called “Shukra” which sounds remarkably like 
“sucre”, which is French for sugar. Just as a sweetener in food delights the taste buds, 
the gifts of Venus similarly reward an ordinary existence with pleasure, whether aesthetic 
or visceral. 


Thus, the mount of Venus is a rough-and-ready measure of the individual’s capacity to 
implement the principle of carpe diem — to seize the day and, by implication, the things 
that make us happy. A strong and fleshy mount implies primal and psychological energy, 
and the drive or passion to put it to work. Further along the thumb, the middle phalange 
represents logic, organization and planning, while the uppermost phalange of the thumb 
indicates the willpower to execute those plans. 


The index finger is associated with Jupiter. In Sanskrit, the name for Jupiter is “Guru”, so 
this finger is very much associated with the primary functions of the guru — counsel and 
education. In classical astrology, Jupiter rules the two signs of Sagittarius and Pisces, 
associated respectively with teaching and philosophy, and with mysticism and devo- 
tional surrender. 


A long Jupiter finger may indicate a natural advisor or teacher, a person of self-aware- 
ness and self-confidence who has come to the role of dispensing advice naturally. 

On the other hand, a short index finger can suggest someone whose confidence has 
been eroded by the criticism of others — family, teachers, bosses — to the degree that 
they’ve become introspective and observant of the human condition, which in itself is a 
common precursor to socio-psychological studies that may ultimately lead to a career in 
social work or psychology. 


As in astrology, so it is in palmistry - One swallow doth not a Spring make. We're al- 
ways looking for corroboration — multiple evidence of a formative theme in the birth chart 
and/or the hand. At the base of the index finger, in the fleshy pad of the palm immedi- 
ately adjacent that finger, is the “mount of Jupiter.” Here we look for minor markings. 


A short diagonal on that mount, more or less parallel to the crease at the base of the 
finger, is called the “ring of Solomon.” Taken from the Bible story wherein the wise man 
Solomon arbitrated the case of two women fighting over the same baby, it suggests 
insight, wisdom and counseling skills. Generically, it’s the mark of a consultant in some 
area of expertise. But it’s not the subject that matters so much as the process of listen- 
ing, digesting and then providing relevant advice within the context of some knowledge 
base (partially) shared by the client. 


Likewise, within that same mount, we look for fine lines that form squares or rectangles. 
These are called “teacher’s squares.” They suggest the individual’s affinity for teaching 
and education. Sometimes this will take a mundane form, such as sales and marketing, 
but can just as likely indicate a teacher, professor or tutor. 


The middle finger is associated with Saturn. In classical astrology, Saturn rules the two 
signs of Capricorn and Aquarius, associated respectively with business, organizations, 
science, social order and the status quo. The middle finger provides the main structural 
axis of the hand, its length providing a benchmark against which the two adjacent fin- 
gers are judged long or short. 


A straight Saturn finger suggests a structured or disciplined lifestyle, while a bent middle 
finger is associated with some degree of deviance, either in pursuit of self-develop- 
ment or self-indulgence. Markings in the “mount of Saturn”, in the fleshy pad of the 
palm immediate below the middle finger, may further indicate a Spartan or regimented 
existence. 


The ring finger is associated with the Sun. In astrology, the Sun rules Leo, the sign of 
royalty, command and control, self-expression and self-indulgence. A long Sun finger 
may indicate a person with a drive to express themselves — through sports, love affairs, 
artistic creativity or entrepreneurial pursuits. 


Given the right reinforcement, both in the “mount of the Sun” immediately below the ring 
finger, or in a lengthy and well-etched line that drops vertically from that finger down into 
the palm of the hand, we might anticipate a person with a sexual, artistic or gambling 
disposition. On the other hand, if the ring finger is short, the person is more likely to be 
conservative in all those same respects. 


From a scientific perspective, new research has proven that measuring the respective 
lengths of children’s index and ring fingers can predict their performance on SAT tests. 
Exposure to testosterone in the womb promotes aggression and risk-taking, as well as 
brain development associated with spatial and mathematical skills, while the physical 
gauge of all that is the length of the ring finger. Studies of top financial traders, who are 
aggressive and risk-taking number-crunchers, have now validated this hypothesis. 


Similarly, exposure to estrogen in the womb strengthens areas of the brain associated 
with verbal facility, meanwhile lengthening the index finger. This confirms the long-ob- 
served phenomenon of the sexes — that women are generally more literate than men, 
who are themselves inclined to be more numerate. Future studies are planned to delve 
further into digital markers for other cognitive functions, including dyslexia and techno- 
phobia. 


The pinkie, or little finger, is related to Mercury. In astrology, Mercury rules the two signs 
of Gemini and Virgo, associated respectively with curiosity, ideas and communication, 
as well as discernment and analysis. A long Mercury finger may reflect a powerful cu- 
riosity that plays itself out in travel, sexual interests and intellectual pursuits. A short little 
finger may suggest some stunted behavior around the very same activities. 


A straight Mercury finger will imply forthrightness and honesty in sexual or intellectual 
matters, while a crooked finger could suggest some element of deviant behavior, for ex- 
ample, concealing from your lover the deep crush you have on a co-worker or neighbor, 
or a tendency to embellish the truth or fabricate stories of one kind or another. Needless 
to say, from a palmistry point of view, virtues can be evils, or vice versa, depending on 
context. | want my accountant to be honest and play it by the books, but | want my 
comedy co-writer to be wildly inventive, and off the wall. 


On the side of the hand opposite the thumb, what we might call the heel of the palm, is 
the “mount of the Moon”, which takes up a good portion of that quadrant. In astrology, 
the Moon rules the sign of Cancer, which is associated with the unconscious mind, 
nurture, fluids of every kind, and the public. Commonly enough, the major “fate line” that 
descends vertically through the palm may veer over into the mount of the Moon. If so, 
we may well assume that the person’s career could have something to do with public 
exposure — sales and marketing, teaching, social or health care, even a career in the 
arts. Alternatively, a fate line descending into this zone might also indicate the crossing 
of oceans, ie, distant travel. 


On quite a different note, a minor horizontal line found centered in the mount of the 
Moon is called a “poison line.” The name alone implies harmful nurture or bio-chemical 
pollution of the body, whether innocently and passively in the form of food sensitivities 
and allergies, or actively and willfully pursued as some form of substance abuse, ranging 
across a wide spectrum of tobacco, alcohol, recreational drugs and/or misuse of one’s 
pharmaceutical prescriptions. 


Further up the hand and running horizontally across the palm, in the space that lies 
between the two more-or-less horizontal lines of the upper “heart line” and the lower 
“head line”, is the “plain of Mars.” In astrology, Mars rules the signs of Aries and Scorpio, 
associated respectively with the courage and skill to fight or use weapons, whether in 
the crude form of police and militia who defend social order, or in the subtler forms of 
doctors and psychologists who use their skills to protect the physical or mental health of 
individuals. 


Loops and whorls, similar to the skin ridge patterns of fingerprints themselves, can 
sometimes be found within the plain of Mars. When located near the (radial) side of the 
thumb, such patterns may indicate recuperative powers, fighting spirit and independent 
enterprise, while at the other end of that zone, the ulnar side of the palm, similar patterns 
may indicate a strong sexuality, an interest in martial arts, and thrill-seeking adventures 
that include travel. Both suggest a love of rhythm and percussion instruments. 


In practice, astrology and palmistry work hand-in-hand because they are both branches 
from the same tree of life. But if you want to get a quick handle on people you meet, or 
are looking for a few rules of thumb to assess personal behavior and its obvious effect 
on relationships or careers, palmistry is the place to start. It’s relatively easy to learn 
compared to astrology, and a good book or course of instruction can soon provide all 
you need to start using this ancient art in a practical way. 


Vedic astrology & career selection 


As an astrologer, if you can address the major issues of relationship and career, your 
Own Career success is assured. 


In ancient times, choosing a career was simple, and in India it followed the lines of the 
caste system. If you were brahmin, you’d be a member of the intelligentsia, following 

a Career in the arts, education, law or ministry. If you were kshatriya, you'd go into the 
civil service, police or military. If vaishya, you’d become a business person, if shudra, a 
tradesman or laborer. If mleccha, perhaps you wouldn’t be employed at all. 


In modern times there’s been an explosion of careers, and the choices now are literally 
mind-boggling. However, with a few simple techniques, it’s still easy to identify some vi- 
able career options unique to each birth chart. 


First & 10th houses 


The basic method highlights planets in the kendras of the birth chart. So long as any 
planet is angular, it will thus either occupy or aspect the 1st or 10th house. Eg, a planet 
in the 4th aspects the 10th, while a planet in the 7th aspects the 1st. 


The 10th is an obvious point of focus, because it represents our career — the observable 
things we do, the karma we perform as per our inclinations, and our aspirations for so- 
cial recognition. 


But why the first house, so favored in South India? In practice, the lagna is the natural 
starting point to understand any client since it represents prakruti, the primal motive 
force, or basic intelligence. In other words, the ascendant represents the individual’s 
instinctive role in life. And it’s the influence of planets on the ascendant that determines 
our prakruti. Once we understand the client, we’re better able to anticipate their likely 
career path. 


So planets in kendras are key, and one or more angular planets can immediately create 
a signature for certain career inclinations. So long as we understand the nature of the 
planets, we can follow their clues to the natural disposition (orakruti) of the client, and 
therefore their natural bias for career aptitudes and pursuits. 


The simplest use of this is to consider the planets as benefics and malefics. Natural 
benefics are the Moon, Mercury, Venus and Jupiter. Natural malefics are the Sun, Mars, 
Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. 


With a majority of malefics angular, the individual favors the reality-based or scientific 
professions: the trades, biology, chemistry, computer applications, engineering, me- 
chanics and other physical sciences. 


We can also consider the caste of planets. Jupiter and Venus are brahmin. Sun and 


Mars are kshatriya. Moon and Mercury are vaishya. Saturn is shudra. Rahu and Ketu 
are mleccha. By noting any caste dominance among angular planets, we might general- 
ize what the likely career orientation will be. 


Signs are aligned with caste too: fire for kshatriya, earth for shudra, air for vaishya, water 
for brahmin. A preponderance of planets in one element may incline one to a certain 
station in life. But signs are never more than stage setting; the planets are the actors 
who perform the real drama. 


Adolf Hitler’s chart below offers a good example of both planets and signs as caste 
indicators. The Sun and Mars in the 7th house are both kshatriya planets, and both are 
strong. This indicates a natural command-and-control instinct, a bias for administrative 
or management roles, in fields such as the police or military, or leadership in govern- 
ment. Further note he has seven out of nine planets in fire, the element associated with 
kshatriya. His karma was to rule and burn. 


Me 03:21 
Su cas 
Ma 2408 
VeR 2423 


Adoif Hitler 


18h30, 20 Apr 1889 
Braunau, Austria 


Career themes by planet 


Aside from caste stereotypes, however, a deeper understanding of planetary natures 
allows greater insight into career potential. Following is a table of professions with which 
each planet is associated. Again, if such a planet is in any of the angular houses, it lends 
a bias for that type of occupation. 
Sun: Administration, leadership, classical professions, accounting, architecture, 
engineering, law, medicine 
Moon: Arts & entertainment, domestic services, esthetics, hospitality industry, 
nurturing professions 
Mars: Security, competitions (sports, litigation), combustion, construction, dis- 
mantling, skills based on strength 
Mercury: Agency & brokering, business, analysis, calculation, communication 
Jupiter: Counseling, investments, ministry, oratory, teaching, wisdom, writing 
Venus: Art, adornment, beauty, culture, luxury, high-living products & services, 
pets, social pastimes, textiles, transportation 


Saturn: Time, labor, land, manufacturing, tools & machines, recycling, guarded 
traditions, secret endeavors, old/dead/ancient/derelict pursuits, rock/stone/inert 
matter 

Rahu/Ketu: Drugs, pharmaceuticals, chemistry, fuels, photography, computers, 
video games, new technologies, inventions, illusion, movies, buffoonery, fraud, 
occult, secrets, import/export, mysticism & metaphysics 


Marilyn Monroe's chart below offers a good example. An angular Moon can incline to 
the arts and entertainment. Independently, Venus also encourages the arts and culture. 
Together they form a persuasive couple favoring beauty and glamour in the arts and 
entertainment field. And as we'll see in our next table, Monroe has a third combination 
(Moon, Venus & Saturn) that is a perfect fit for the entertainment field. 


09h30, 01 Jun 1926 


LX 


Career themes via planetary combinations 


Although a single planet might very well nudge the client into a certain occupation or ca- 
reer, in practice we expect more complexity. There are, after all, more careers to choose 
from than ever, and some of these are combinatorial in nature, eg, forensic accountant, 
prosthetic engineer, immigration lawyer. 


lf there are two or more angular planets, we may need to determine the relative strength 
of angular planets by applying certain criteria. For example, a planet is strong in its own 
or exalted sign, when it has dig bala (directional strength), when retrograde, or as a full 
Moon. It is weak when debilitated, combust, in a planetary war (conjunct another true 
planet within one degree), or as anew Moon. Once we determine the relative hierarchy 
of angular planets, it’s often the strongest among them that will give the client a bias for 
a particular career. 


The table below provides a list of possible careers when one or more planets occupy 
angular houses at the same time. The list does not account for one planet’s dominance 
over another, as discussed above, although that’s always something to keep in mind. 


SU: Administration, organization, control, politics 
SU/MA: Administration, medicine 


SU/MA/JU: Politics 

SU/MA/SA: Medicine 

SU/JU: Healing, religion, spirituality 

MO/MA/SA: Sports 

MO/JU: Travel 

MO/VE: Arts, beautification, crafts, esthetics, food, beverage 
MO/VE/SA: Entertainment 

MA/ME: Computers 

MA/JU: Law 

MA/VE: Sex, scandal, primal charisma 

MA/SA: Construction, labor, police, military, competition, confrontation, technol- 
ogy, science, tools, machinery 

MA/SA/ME: Engineering, sports business, machinery, metal, electrical 
MA/SA/RA: Science 

ME/JU: Communication, media, acting, writing, advising, counseling, humanities 
ME/JU/VE: Education 

ME/SA: Business 

JU/VE: Counselor, advisor, stage acting 

JU/SA/RA: Occult 

VE: Arts 

SA: Heavy labor 

RA/KE: Unusual, different, illusion, innovation, new technology 


In Bill Gates’ chart below, we find three planets in kendras. The Moon is almost full, 
Mars is ordinary and Mercury is exalted. The Moon and Mercury are both vaishya plan- 
ets, so we think of commerce. And because of its strength, our attention naturally lingers 
on Mercury. Not only is it lagnesh for this chart, but the Gemini lagna is also vaishya. 
Finally, if we check Table 2 above, we find the Mars-Mercury combination is one that 
favors computers. If we put all this together, we find a natural bias for the computer 
business. 


Mo 1436 


In the absence of angular planets 


For readers who've been following this thesis, and perhaps reviewing some charts in 
their files, questions naturally arise: What about charts which have no angular planets at 
all? Are those clients doomed to unemployment? 


In practice, the absence of angular planets doesn’t make it impossible to identify a 
career, just a little more complicated. For instance, it’s very common in Vedic astrology 
to rotate the chart in order to treat the Moon as the ascendant, and then look at planets 
in relative angles. 

And if this doesn’t produce a signature planet, we can always rotate the chart again to 
treat the Sun as the ascendant. One way or another, we’ll pick up a pointer to an appro- 
priate career. 


CELEBRITY WATCH 


The tragic death of Mike Tyson’s daughter 
(first published 28 May 2009) 


Mike Tyson’s 4-year-old daughter was taken off life support on 26 May 2009, after being 
accidentally strangled by a cord dangling from a treadmill machine. 


Former world heavyweight champion Tyson was born 30 June 1966 in Catskill, NY, but 
his birth time is unknown, thus denying astrologers the opportunity to calculate an accu- 
rate birth chart. 


In the absence of a birth time, Western astrologers typically prepare a chart for noon 

or sunrise, the latter of which would place the Sun in the ascendant. Vedic astrologers, 
noting that the Moon moves faster than the Sun and is therefore a more potent individu- 
ating factor, prefer to rotate the birth chart until the Moon is in the first house. 


This produces a Chandralagna (Moon as ascendant) chart, in which the tragedy of 
Tyson’s daughter’s death can be clearly seen. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart po- 
sitions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


; AS 20s ; 
Mo an 
Mike Tyson 8 
30 June 1966 


Catskill, NY, USA 


With the Moon as Scorpio ascendant, Saturn occupies the 5th house of children. The 
5th lord is Jupiter, which is combust the Sun and placed in the 8th house, a dusthana, 
or destructive house. 


Instead of progressions, Vedic astrology employs a unique system of planetary periods, 
a fixed cycle of karmic consequence dictated by the position of the Moon at birth. Tyson 
was in a dasha (major period) of the Sun, and the bhukti (minor period) of Jupiter. 


Natally, the two are conjunct in the 8th house of death, and Jupiter, which is not only the 
lord of the 5th but also the karaka (general significator) of children, is the one that suffers 
under the Sun’s combustion. 


Specifically, the second child of a parent is indicated by the 7th house (sibling to the first 
child). Here, the lord Venus is in its own sign, but is afflicted by the association of malefic 
Mars strong in its own nakshatra, and the aspect of malefic Saturn, also strong in its 
nakshatra. 


At the time of death, transiting Saturn was in Leo, from whence its aspect upon natal 
Venus set the stage. Transiting Sun, considered a malefic, was exactly on Tyson’s natal 
Venus, significator of his daughter. To cap it all off, transiting Moon was in the 8th house 
with natal Sun and Jupiter, the major and minor period lords. 


Tiger, Tiger, blushing bright in the media spotlight 
(first published 7 December 2009) 


When Tiger Woods ran over a fire hydrant with his Escalade 10 days ago, it quickly be- 
came clear that he had lost control of more than his vehicle. Not only was his marriage 
possibly off the rails, so was his near-perfect public image, that of the world’s most at- 
tractive and wealthy product endorser. 

Tiger Woods was born 30 December 1975, at 10:50 PM PST in Long Beach, California. 
(Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic 
astrology.) 


2250, 30 Dec 1975 
Long Beach, CA. USA 


In Vedic astrology, this gives him a Virgo ascendant with barely one degree rising, so 
early in the sign that we might worry whether an actual birth time of only five minutes 
earlier could have given him Leo rising. As a first test, let’s consider the big picture. Fixed 
signs have a bias for holding onto relationships; mutable signs have an ambivalent atti- 
tude toward long-term commitment. In the case of the latter, they typically avoid or have 
issues with long-term commitments, and/or they pursue or attract relationships that are 
prone to instability. 

Need examples? How about John F. Kennedy, Hugh Hefner, Warren Beatty, Bill Clinton 
or David Duchovny, all of whom have a Virgo ascendant and a known predilection for a 
varied love life’? 


In other words, whether by conscious inclination or unconscious “fate” they find them- 
selves in situations that don’t bode well for a long-term monogamous marriage the like 
of which society continues to hold up as a model of virtue. 


Tiger has Pisces in the 7th house. A dual sign indicates duality, suggesting ambivalent 
feelings, and the prospect of more than one partner. Jupiter’s presence in the 7th simply 
amplifies that possibility. On the one hand, Jupiter’s benefic status can bequeath marital 
good fortune, while on the other hand it may offer up a virtual smorgasbord of available 
partners. Facing a buffet table, who wants to stay on a diet? 


Tiger has been in the dasha (major period) of the Sun since 2004, and the bhukti (minor 


period) of Venus since June 2009. The Sun occupies a nakshatra of Venus and there- 
fore gives its results in its period. Venus thus becomes central to understanding this pe- 
riod, both generally throughout the Sun dasha, and epitomized within the Venus bhukti. 


Venus sits in the 3rd house, which is associated with physical prowess in the form of 
athleticism, artistry and desire. The 3rd house is one of the three kama (desire) houses. 
His Venus is associated with the Moon, who owns the 11th, another kama house, and 


is aspected by powerful Jupiter, who owns and occupies the 7th, the primary kama 
ighlighters ------------- 


Venus is itself a karaka (significator) for pleasurable activities. It is associated with two 
key yogas: (1) the Parivartana Yoga wherein Venus and Mars exchange signs to provide 
fortunate adventures, (2) the Dhana Yoga wherein Venus and Moon combine to generate 
income via athletic prowess. By association, Venus also participates in the Chandra- 
Mangala Yoga wherein the Moon/Mars opposition generates heat, passion and raw 
energy. 


At the time of Tiger’s car crash (2:25 am, 27 November 2009, Windermere, Florida), 
Virgo was also rising, with Saturn in the ascendant tightly opposing Moon in the 7th 
house. When luxury car met fire hydrant, two worlds had already collided — the marital 
and the extra-marital. 


Tiger car crash 


02h25, 27 Nov 2009 
Windermere. FL, USA 


Given the astrological state of affairs, Tiger probably shouldn’t expect any rapid rescue. 
Saturn’s transit through anyone’s ascendant typically takes the shine off the image, and 
generally reflects a lack-luster 2.5-year period. Transiting Saturn in Tiger’s 1st house as- 
pects (a) his 7th house, (6) his 7th lord Jupiter, and (c) Venus the karaka of marriage. 


Meanwhile, transiting 7th lord Jupiter won’t be much help for awhile. At the moment, 
it’s debilitated in Capricorn. Later in December it’ll go into Aquarius and the litigious 6th 
house. Not until late May will it return to the Pisces 7th house, and perhaps his marriage 
can be buffed up a little with some hand-holding in the public spotlight. 

Long-term prognosis, not so good. If Tiger’s birth time is accurate, this Sun-Venus 
period may break the back of his marriage, since both planets fall in the 8th house of 
his navamsa (marriage) chart. Moon dasha will follow immediately, and with a dark and 


debilitated Moon in his natal chart, both friends and corporate sponsors may start to 
feel uneasy as his secret life emerges from the shadows. Since the Moon also occupies 
the negative 3rd house of the navamsa under stress from malefics, the next decade will 
probably not be a happy one for Tiger, at least as far as marriage is concerned. 


Charlie Sheen: two and a half demons 
(first published 28 February 2010) 


Charlie Sneen checked himself into rehab last week, bringing a suitcase of personal 
effects, a pair of monkeys on his back and apparently a lot of unresolved issues. Despite 
being the most highly-paid actor in television today, the star of Two and Half Men still 
can’t find what he’s looking for. 

Sheen was bom September 3, 1965, at 10:48 PM in New York. (Note: all cuspal and 
planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Charlie Sheen 


22h48, 03 Sep 1965 
New York, USA 


Sheen has Taurus rising with the nodal axis running through his 1st and 7th houses. 
Whereas Palin & McCain had to fake it for their run at Presidential Office, going rogue 
comes completely natural to Sheen, since the nodes suggest aberrant and rebellious 
behaviour. Becoming one of Hollywood’s bad boys was no stretch for this actor. 


Sheen’s ascendant lord Venus is debilitated in the 5th house Virgo. Among other things, 
the 5th indicates the individual’s state of mind, and Venus is a karaka (significator) for 
sex. Whereas Venus in the 5th can be romantic, a debilitated Venus can be downright 
randy. Interestingly, from a mythic point of view, Shukra (Venus) was the guru of the de- 
monic Asuras who revelled in intoxication and fomication. 


In 1993 Sheen was named in the Hollywood Madam Heidi Fleiss scandal, after which 
he confessed to being a regular patron of her escort services. In 1997 he admitted once 
having five women in bed at the same time, and according to Maxim magazine, is re- 
puted to have had over 5,000 lovers! 


Sheen’s 7th lord Mars is in the 6th house, a dusthana or problematic house, while his 
Venus and Mars are in an inimical two/twelve relationship. Marital life has never been, 
and likely never will be, simple for him. 


In 1990 he accidentally shot his fiancée Kelly Preston in the arm; they broke up soon 
after. He married Donna Peele in 1995 and separated 14 months later. In 2002 he mar- 
ried Denise Richards but divorced in 2006. He married Brooke Mueller in 2008 but on 
Christmas Day 2009 was arrested on a charge of domestic violence. 


Both diet and substance abuse are seen through the 2nd house. Its lord Mercury is 
afflicted by two powerful malefics Sun and Saturn, whose natural enmity and opposition 
imply a self-destructive person giving the finger to a society that applauds his work ethic 
while still expecting him to grow up one of these days. 


Addictions are seen from the self-undoing of the 12th house. Its lord Mars is in the 6th, 
a dusthana, from which it aspects its own house, fueling a love of “pleasures of the bed” 
and “loss of consciousness.” Eighth lord Jupiter also aspects its own house, further fan- 
ning the flames of sexual desire and indulging the senses via the Moon in the 8th. 


Sheen is currently running the dasha (planetary period) of Mars, whose placement in the 
6th is problematic, while its ownership of the 7th (relationships) and 12th (addictions) 
makes these matters something of an ongoing battle. 


The bhukti (minor period) is Saturn, so it is indeed time to apply the brakes on this 
runaway locomotive. Saturn is strong in his chart, ruling both the 9th house of personal 
ethics, and 10th house of profession, so perhaps with the counsel of a mentor behind 
the scenes there’s hope for him to curb his appetites. At the pinnacle of the TV moun- 
tain, now is not the time to blow it. 


Problem is, he’s type-cast himself in the role of a weak character. Ascendant lord Venus 
is debilitated and 1st house occupant Rahu is debilitated. Furthermore, transiting Saturn 
is in sidereal Virgo for the rest of this year and next, weighing down on his libidinous and 
self-indulgent Venus. So let’s pray for him in overcoming his demons, but don’t be sur- 
prised to see him shuffling back and forth between rehab and a tenuous marriage fora 
few more years. 


Naomi Campbell: model behavior 
(first published 31 March 2010) 


Earlier this month, super-model Naomi Campbell was again involved in an attack on an 

employee when she allegedly slapped and punched her limo driver, one more in a series 
of over-the-top demonstrations of her temper, which Campbell blames on her “lingering 
resentment toward her father who abandoned her as a child.” Yikes! With super-models 
like this, wno needs Mike Tyson? 


More allegations: In 2008 she assaulted a police officer and bad-mouthed British 
Airways cabin crew after one of her bags was lost. In 2007 her housekeeper required 
stitches after an attack for which Naomi later pleaded guilty to reckless assault. In 2006 
she hammered a housekeeper with a jewel-encrusted mobile phone, and was named 
in another lawsuit by yet another housekeeper who called Campbell a “violent super- 
bigot.” In 2005, she slapped an assistant and beat her around the head with a Black- 
Berry, and in 2000, assaulted another assistant with a telephone. 


Naomi Campbell was born 22 May 1970 at 1:00 AM in Streatham, England. (Note: all 
cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Naomi Campbell 


01h00, 22 May 1970 
Streatham, England 


Her mother was a ballet dancer who became pregnant at age 18 and was deserted by 
Campbell's father just months after her birth. Campbell has never met her father but has 
adopted several father figures throughout her life, including Quincy Jones and Nelson 
Mandela. 


Campbell's chart is a good “anger management” case study. Both the Sun and Moon 
are afflicted by the aggressive Mars, but this only represents her tip-of-the-iceberg be- 
haviors. Lying at the heart of her discontent is a weak manas — the emotional mind that 
governs our perceptions of, and reactions to, the world around us. 

The manas is indicated by the 4th house — the seat of one’s psychology. Problems are 
shown via (1) the presence or aspect of Saturn or Rahu on the 4th house, (2) weakness 
of the 4th lord, and (3) weakness of the Moon, the karaka or significator of the emotional 
mind. 


In Campbell’s chart, ascendant lord Saturn sits in the 4th house. Because Saturn is 
debilitated in Aries, this constitutes a fundamental source of angst and frustration for her. 
Saturn represents distance, denial, and potentially depression, and since it’s associated 
with Mercury, the 9th lord indicating the father, therein lies one seed of her discontent. 


The 4th lord is Mars, and although it’s not weak in any obvious way, it is sandhi, within 
the last degree of a sign, implying a transitory edginess. And when we consider the 
Moon, we see it’s in mixed condition — both full and debilitated — but afflicted by aggres- 
sive Mars. 


Given this toxic stew of frustration and resentment, how is this likely to manifest in 
Campbell's life? Substance abuse is seen through the 2nd house. There we see the 
poisonous Rahu, while 2nd lord Saturn is debilitated. By her own admission, Naomi has 
been pushing the envelope with drugs and alcohol since her early twenties, when she 
started the dasha of Venus, the planet of bhog or self-indulgence. 


Although now approaching 40, Campbell has never married. Both ascendant lord 
Saturn and 7th lord Moon are debilitated, and in a 6/8 relative position to each other. 
The Moon is doubly afflicted by hot Sun and Mars, and no planet aspects the 7th house 
to soften its isolation. Finally, Venus, the karaka for relationship, sits in the 6th house, a 
dusthana, where it receives only aspects from retrograde Jupiter in the 10th and debili- 
tated Saturn in the 4th. Good for career, not so good for relationships. 


What lies ahead? Sun dasha starts in 2012. Sun is a multiple significator for the 8th 
house of dislocation, trauma and transformation. On a mundane level, danger from ac- 
cidents and/or surgeries gone wrong; on a personal and professional level, time to re- 
invent herself. Until then, let’s hope she sticks with the (AA) program and learns to pull 
some of those punches. 


Larry King: walkin’ the talk 
(first published 30 April 2010) 


Larry King, arguably the most famous mouth in modern America, has been around the 
block a few times. Often the butt of Methusaleh jokes on Leno and Letterman late-night 
shows, he has nonetheless strutted his stuff by marrying seven women eight times, and 
fathering five children. Never mind the Energizer bunny, this guy is still humming along. 


But his life has been one big roller-coaster ride. A brother died just before he was born, 
and when he was 10, his father died of a heart attack. Larry went from excellent stu- 
dent to troublemaker who spent all his time watching baseball and listening to radio talk 
shows, graduating high school by the skin of his teeth. He moved to Miami at age 23 for 
a menial job at a radio station, where he caught a lucky break to begin work as a disk 
jockey. He went on to do sports commentary and celebrity interviews at several radio 
and TV stations, and launched a writing career with Miami’s biggest newspapers. 


With good times came bad times. Sports was his passion, and sports betting his near 
downfall. By age 38, he was $352,000 in debt, and had to totally reorganize his life be- 
fore someone else did it for him in a brutal fashion. He suffered a heart attack in 1987, 
later had a quintuple bypass surgery, wrote two books about heart disease, and sub- 
sequently went on to become a major champion for the Heart Foundation and other 
charities. 


Marriages came and went in quick succession: high-school sweetheart Freda Millar 

(1 year), Annette Kaye (briefly), Playboy bunny Alene Akins (2 years), Mary Sutphin (3 
years), the bunny again (5 years), math teacher Sharon Lepore (7 years), business- 
woman Julie Alexander (3 years) and singer/TV host Shawn Southwick (12 years and 
counting). 

Larry King was born Lawrence Zeiger on November 19, 1933, at 10:38 AM in Brooklyn, 


NY. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per 
Vedic astrology.) 


Larry King 


10h38, 19 Nov 1933 
Brooktyn, NY, USA 


Larry King’s chart has several prominent yogas, none of them easy. Most obvious is the 


Kala Sarpa Yoga, where the Rahu/Ketu axis in houses 3/9 divides the chart in two — 

all planets in one half, the other half empty. Kala Sarpa promises an up-and-down life. 
House placement of the nodes suggests one set of themes. His brother (8rd house) died 
just before Larry was born, and his father (9th house) died when he was still quite young. 
Other themes arise from the nodal dispositors: a strong Saturn in the 2nd house delivers 
oratory, money and substance abuse, while Sun in the 12th generates sexual heat and 
charity. 

Papakartari Yoga forms with malefics in the 1st, 2nd and 12th houses, thus concen- 
trating a malign influence on the ascendant. This can bequeath a libidinous and self- 
destructive nature to the character, and impose a heavy weight (in the form of illness, ac- 
cidents and surgeries) for the physical body to bear. 


Although technically not a yoga, Larry King also has a nasty case of Kuja Dosha. This 
occurs when Mars is found in houses 1, 2, 4, 7, 8 or 12 from the ascendant, the Moon 
or Venus. In Larry’s chart, Mars is in the 1st house relative to all three. Conventional wis- 
dom says, don’t marry until after the age of 28; with a case like this, it’s more like, good 
luck with marriage at all. 


Finally, a subtle but significant Viparita Yoga sits in the ascendant. Traditional definition 
says Viparita occurs when lords of trikasthanas (6th, 8th and 12th houses) are found 
within other trikasthanas, and when all three trik lords are found in such a configuration, 
a full mala occurs. A less well-known definition is when two or more trik lords are asso- 
ciated in a house which is neither occupied nor aspected by any other planet. 


In Larry King’s case, we have the perfect example of a high-potency Viparita Yoga. 
Sixth lord Venus, 8th lord Moon and 12th lord Mars al! converge in the ascendant. That 
ascendant contains nothing other than these three trik lords, nor receives the aspect of 
any other planet. It’s the jyotishical equivalent of “three wrongs make a right.” 


In Larry King’s case, it gives him great charisma. First, he’s a virile guy with Moon and 
Mars, lords of 8th and 12th houses, creating a passion combo of the first order in his 
ascendant. Second, he’s a survivor of multiple trauma (8th lord Moon in the lagna) on 
several different levels, with Venus and Mars coming together to lay struggle (6th house) 
and surrender (12th house) on the rack of his human existence. 


But for a guy who’s 77, he’s looking pretty good. If that’s the rack he’s meant to be tor- 
tured on, he’s getting it pretty much on his own terms! 


Viparita Yoga: Alanis Morissette’s jagged little pill 
(first published 31 January 2011) 


Alanis Morissette started acting at 10, had her own record company at 14, went plat- 
inum with her debut album at 17, and at 21 came out of nowhere (Ottawa, Canada) to 
sell 33 million aloums worldwide with Jagged Little Pill. 


Morissette was born June 1st, 1974, at 9:39 AM in Ottawa, Canada. Birth time courtesy 
of Astrotheme.com. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal 
Zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Sa 107 


Alanis has the chart of an artist. Ascendant lord Moon is bright in a sign of Venus. Moon 
and Venus exactly oppose and mutually aspect each other in kendra/angular houses, 
the 4th and 10th. Aside from being a Dharma-Karma Yoga (ruling 1st and 4th houses), 
this is also a generic artist’s yoga. In fact, the very tight opposition between Moon and 
Venus also means that the two will mutually stimulate each other in all of the amshas/ 
vargas, the harmonic charts unique to jyotish. 


Her 5th lord (where the mind goes, drama, spiritual practice) is Mars, debilitated in the 
lagna/ascendant, from where it aspects ascendant lord Moon. Mars was activated right 
from birth because Alanis was born into the dasha (major period) of an exalted Rahu, 
one of whose functions is to do the work of its dispositor Mars. Thus was born a spiritual 
warrior. 


Among the few yogas in her chart is a Viparita Yoga. Viparita is formed when all three 
trikasthana (6th-8th-12th) house lords also occupy trik houses. Alanis has a perfect 
example. Mercury and Saturn, the 8th and 12th lords, occupy the 12th house. The 
other trik lord Jupiter, ruling the 6th, sits in the 8th from where it also happens to aspect 
Mercury and Saturn. All three trik lords are in trik houses, and further linked by Jupiter’s 
aspect. 

Viparita Yoga tends to cause a sudden and unexpected rise in life, often as the result of 
a mishap. Viparita means inverted, contrary, reversed. It’s the astrological equivalent of 
algebraic math, where multiplying two negative numbers produces a positive number. 


Her Viparita Yoga involves all three trik lords: Jupiter, Saturn, and Mercury, who just 
happen to follow each other in Vimshottari dasha sequence. That means that when her 
Jupiter dasha begins, its first three bhuktis (minor periods) will be Jupiter, Saturn and 
Mercury. And when the combined periods of those dasha and bhukti lords run, they will 
bring the results of their Viparita Yoga — sudden unexpected rise. 


When Rahu dasha ended and Jupiter dasha began, the Viparita Yoga was activated. 
Alanis was 16. Within the next four years, she wrote songs and performed and made 
two dance/ballad albums under the name Alanis. In 1995, when she was 21, Jagged 
Little Pill was released under her full name, selling 33 million units worldwide, the big- 
gest international debut album ever. Suddenly she was a maior star. 


But what was the mishap out of which it grew? Alanis was mugged in 1993 during her 
JU-SA period but her reaction to it was delayed for more than a year, until Xmas 1994, 
after which she went through a long period of crying jags and fainting spells. 


Jupiter lord of the 6th brings confrontation and illness, while in the 8th, trauma. Saturn 
lord of the 8th in the 12th brings trauma, secret enemies, and loss, but also catharsis. 
And out of personal adversity came her fiercely creative reaction. In June 1995, just as 
she was shifting into Mercury bhukti, Jagged Little Pill was released. 


Mercury is the third trik lord of her Viparita Yoga, powerful in its own sign, and the 
strongest planet in her chart. During their bhuktis, both Saturn and Mercury do work for 
Rahu, because they occupy Ardra, one of Rahu’s nakshatras. 


Rahu in the 5th will express itself with drama (Rahu can be flashy), anger (Mars is Rahu’s 
dispositor) and angst (Rahu is deranged, and Mars is debilitated). Indeed, Jagged Little 
Pill summed up the anger and angst of adolescence. Since then, she’s gone on to write 
many other albums, and continued her acting career, appearing off-Broadway, in TV se- 
ries like Nip/Tuck and Weeds, and in a number of films. 


She went into Saturn dasha in 2006, another of the trik lords that keep the Viparita Yoga 
going. Saturn as lord of the 7th house placed in the 12th is not a promising indicator of 
marital stability. Alanis was engaged for three years to actor Ryan Reynolds. Although 
they met late in Jupiter dasha, he broke it off early in Saturn dasha, in Saturn bhukti. It 
affected her deeply, and spurred more soul-searching and scathing songwriting. 


She’s since married and had her first child in Mercury bhukti. Just as JU-ME delivered 
fame and fortune, SA-ME delivered happiness in her personal life. Indeed, success of 
some sort is exactly what we expect from the bhukti of a strong planet. During its pe- 
riod, Mercury participates in the “turnaround” results of Viparita Yoga. It also works for 
its nakshatra dispositor Rahu in the 5th, thus producing romance and a child. 

What lies ahead? For the balance of Saturn dasha, let’s expect divorce and remarriage, 
and a continued career mix of music and acting. After age 51, in Mercury dasha, she'll 
become a philanthropist, take up foreign residency, write a book, and disappear from 
the limelight to embrace spiritual life. 


And what it all comes down to, is that everything’s gonna be fine, fine, fine... 


Leonard Cohen: he’s your man 
(first published 18 Feb 2011, expanded 15 Nov 2016) 


Canada’s most famous poet was a man of mystery, mysticism and mistresses. Over the 
course of his life he enjoyed a stellar career as poet, novelist, songwriter and performer. 
He rubbed shoulders with literati, generals, filmmakers, Zen masters and Hollywood ac- 
tresses. Did it get any more eclectic than this? 


Cohen was born September 21, 1934, at 6:45 am in Montreal. His father ran a clothing 
store and upon his death left Cohen a trust fund that allowed him some financial inde- 
pendence. He first made his name on the Canadian literary scene as a poet and novelist, 
but when neither earned much money, he turned his talents to songwriting, where he 
found his niche. 


Cohen has one classic Mahapurusha Yoga in his Vedic chart. Bhadra Yoga is created 
by Mercury in its own sign in the ascendant. In addition, Mercury is independently 
strengthened by gaining dig bala (directional strength) in the 1st. 


Bhadra Yoga exemplifies an archetype: Mercurial nature, brainy, observant, analytical, 
clever with words, but also ambivalent, calculating and detached. Calling him a word- 
smith is an understatement; essentially he was a man of ideas — spiritual, secular and 
sexual — using his pen as a mighty sword. 

Aside from the classic rule of requiring angularity, some authors also allow that a true 
planet in its own sign can enjoy yoga status in a trinal house too. Under this looser 
definition, Sasha Yoga arises with Saturn in its own sign in the 5th house. It is further 
strengthened in being retrograde. 


06h45, 21 Sep 1934 
Westmount, Canada 


Sasha Yoga offers a different archetype: a Saturnine nature, introspective, philosophical, 
spiritual, but also depressive and reclusive. Occurring in the 5th house, which rules both 
mind and spiritual nature, Saturn invokes a certain Spartan ethic. Indeed, Cohen spent 
several early years as a relative recluse in the Greek islands, and from the 1970s onward 
was deeply engaged in Zen Buddhism. 


Over the years Cohen was romantically linked with many famous women, eg, Joni 


Mitchell, Janis Joplin, and Rebecca de Momay, but he said cowardice and fear pre- 
vented him from marrying his longtime partner, artist Suzanne Elrod, with whom he had 
two children. 


His prospects for longstanding primary relationships were not strong. The 7th house 
lord Jupiter is ordinary in the 2nd house, with sign-to-sign squares from malefics Mars 
and Saturn. The 7th house itself is aspected by malefics Sun and Saturn. Venus, signifi- 
cator of love, is in the 12th house, a dusthana, a place of suffering and loss. 


He struggled with depression for most of his life. Saturn is powerful in its own sign in 
the 5th house (the mind), joined by the malefic (and deranging) Rahu, and opposed by 
a debilitated Mars. The Moon, a generic significator of the mind, is in the 6th house in a 
sign of Saturn. 


Spirituality was a major theme. An observant Jew with priests among his ancestors, he 
consistently interwove spirituality into his writings, referring to many of his poems and 
songs as “prayers.” One of his novels, Beautiful Losers, explored the themes of Mo- 
hawk Indian mysticism. Cohen became involved in Zen Buddhism in the 1970s, spent 
five years in a monastery in the 90s, and was ordained a Zen monk. 


In the powerful 5th house, Saturn associated with Rahu invokes both the minimalism 
and “foreign” aspect of Zen Buddhism. The 9th lord Venus is gone to the 12th, suggest- 
ing mentors and gurus encountered in retreats and/or foreign locales. The 12th lord Sun, 
itself a significator for the spirit, is exactly upon the ascendant. 


Saturn’s 19-year dasha (major planetary period) began in 1962, marking an era of 
dedicated craftsmanship, often in seclusion, to his writing. During his Mercury bhukti 
(sub-period) in 1967 he moved to the USA to pursue his new profession as singer and 
songwriter. His stature grew throughout the 70s, a combination of influences including 
the use of his music in Hollywood films and his collaboration with other artists to develop 
a new sound for his music. 


The 17-year Mercury dasha began in 1981, a prolific period that extended through the 
90s. He got more involved in film, and made increasing use of video clips as new media 
to promote his work. He segued into a new musical mode epitomized by the album /’m 
Your Man, and saw at least one aspect of his social conscience (Mercury also rules the 
10th, ie, social status) materialize wnen some of his work was adopted as torch songs 
by the Polish Solidarity movement. 


He retreated to the Mount Baldy Zen Center near LA in 1994, during Jupiter bhukti, and 
in the following bhukti of his powerful Saturn, was ordained a Zen monk, adopting the 
name Jikan, meaning “silence.” He remained in seclusion for five years, well into his Ketu 
dasha. 


Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury dashas ran sequentially, and all delivered results for Mars, 
whose nakshatras they occupied. Debilitated Mars in the 11th house owns the 3rd and 
8th houses — both dusthanas (places of misfortune) — thus characterizing the “mis-ad- 
ventures” correlated with his recurrent themes of infidelity and betrayal, depression, so- 


cial injustice, war, and a lifelong predilection for the underdog, the “beautiful loser.” 


The following 7-year dasha of moksha karaka Ketu (associated with Mars, aspected 
by Saturn in its nakshatra) saw a further extension of the same themes — creative work 
suffused with spirituality. Unfortunately, during the dasha of Ketu, aka “the headless 
one”, Cohen also lost sight of some vital worldly matters. 


Immediately with the onset of his 20-year Venus dasha, Cohen discovered that his long- 
time former manager had misappropriated $5 million (97%) of his retirement fund. Note 
that Venus is lord of the 2nd gone to the 12th, a clear indicator of financial loss. Although 
Cohen fought and won a civil suit, and was awarded $9 million, his former manager 
refused to disclose her financial records, the end result being that Cohen was never able 
to collect the awarded amount. 


To quote Cohen from one of his songs, “I’ve seen the future, brother, and it is murder.” 


After being financially devastated, Cohen was obliged to do what many another musi- 
cian has been forced to do — get back to work. Despite not having toured in 15 years, 
he launched a world tour in the spring of 2008 that lasted until late in 2010. In the fall of 
2010, Sony put out another album, Songs From the Road, showcasing Cohen’s recent 
live performances. 

Life on the road took its toll. In September 2009, with transiting Saturn just a few de- 
grees from his ascendant and natal Sun, he collapsed onstage in the middle of singing 
“Bird on a Wire.” He was rushed to a hospital, reportedly diagnosed with food poisoning. 
In 2012 and 2013 he did another world tour, this time plagued with back problems. 


He put out another two albums in 2014 and 2016, the latter just three weeks before his 


death. Cancer was a contributing factor in his demise, but it was precipitated by a fall on 
November 7th, 2016, and he died that night in his sleep. 


At the time, he was running Venus dasha, Jupiter bhukti. Venus is a maraka (death-pro- 
voking) planet because it owns the 2nd house. Since Venus occupies its own nakshatra, 
it powerfully acts on its own behalf, and its 12th-house placement is reflective of both 
loss and the end of things. 
Bhukti lord Jupiter is a double maraka because it occupies the 2nd and owns the 7th. It 
produces results for its star-lord Mars, a very problematic planet for Virgo rising since it 
rules both the troublesome 3rd house and the traumatic 8th house. Furthermore, Mars 
is debilitated, aligned on the Rahu-Ketu axis and bound in an opposition with its power- 
ful arch-enemy Saturn. 
He was laid to rest with a Jewish rite, in a simple pine casket next to his parents on a 
family plot in his hometown Montreal. Although physically departed, his spirit will never- 
theless live on through his music and poetry, as suggested perhaps by lyrics from his 
most revered composition: 

“I did my best, it wasn't much 

| couldn't feel, so | tried to touch 

I've told the truth, | didn't come to fool you 


And even though it all went wrong 
I'll stand before the lord of song 
With nothing on my tongue but hallelujah.” 


Will & Kate look great! 
(first published 27 April 2011) 


Thirty years ago, | appeared as a guest astrologer on Montreal’s CBC-Radio to field 
questions from listeners and offer some predictions about current events of the day, one 
of them the forthcoming marriage of Charles, Prince of Wales, to Lady Diana Spencer. 


My prognosis was not good — the marriage would fall apart after about seven years. One 
listener expressed great outrage that I’d made such a prediction. But in due course, 
events proved me correct, with the fairytale romance coming apart at the seams after 
only five years, and by the late 80s Charles and Diana were living apart. 

With my past record in hand, | approached the current Royal Wedding with some 
caution. Was | just a bad-news bear or did | see anything promising in this forthcoming 
union? What does Vedic astrology say? 

William Windsor was born at 9:03 PM on June 21st, 1982, in Paddington, England. 
(Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic 
astrology.) 


21h03, 21 Jun 1982 
Paddington, England 


Will has a Sagittarius ascendant, with both Sun and Moon in Gemini in the 7th house of 
marriage, and a strong Venus in 6th house Taurus. 


Kate Middleton was born January 9th, 1982, in Reading, England but her birth time 
remains unknown to the public. Lacking a birth time, common practice in Vedic astrol- 
ogy is to calculate the planets’ positions for noon and then rotate the chart to place the 
Moon in the first house. Alternatively, we can erect a chart for when the Moon rose at 
her birth locality, which is what I’ve done here, giving her a “hypothetical” birth time of 
3:57 PM. 


x 


Mo 2311 
Ra x0 
Kate Middleton ; 3 
09 Jan 1982 j 
Reading, Engiand 5 9 
Su 2528 


2907 10 
VeR 13.0 
Me 1226 


Therefore, since the Moon rose at 23 degrees Gemini on Kate's birthday, this degree 
point also becomes her ascendant. She has a Sagittarius Sun in the 7th house of mar- 
riage, and a strong (retrograde) Venus in 8th house Capricorn. 


What does astrology say about their compatibility? According to the Dashkoota system 
used by pundits throughout the Hindu world, Will and Kate score an acceptable 22.5 
points on a 36-point scale. Although not a stellar score, anything over 21 points lays the 
foundation for a workable marriage without need of remedial intervention. 


A more detailed look at compatibility involves creating a 4x4 matrix comparing the 
relative sign positions of ascendant, Moon, Sun and Venus between Will and Kate. The 
ascendant indicates personality, behaviors, likes and dislikes. The Moon denotes per- 
ceptions, emotions and communications. The Sun reflects life mission, vision and val- 
ues. Last but not least, Venus implies physical affection and sexuality. 


Will 


MO su VE 


ASC 
Kate 
= 
a 


In this 16-point matrix, we have 10 points good, only six bad — a decided bias in favor 
of marital happiness. More importantly, the four key factors are mutually well-disposed 
between the couple. Will and Kate’s ascendants are opposites — Sagittarius and Gemini. 
Their Moon signs are the same — Gemini. Their Sun signs are opposites — Sagittarius 
and Gemini. And their Venus signs are both earthy — Taurus and Capricom. This all 
points to compatibility in all four aspects of marital life. 


ASC 


MO 


occupies his 7th house. Saturn also aspects the 7th house. This year, transiting Saturn 
is back in Hasta, again via its star-lord Moon triggering 7th house matters for Will. On 
the wedding day itself, there is a great cluster of transiting planets in Pisces, three of 
which are in Revati, a nakshatra of Mercury, which owns Will’s 7th house. 


Based on her hypothetical birth time, Kate is running Saturn dasha, Jupiter bhukti. Sat- 
urn is in Chitra, a nakshatra of Mars who aspects Kate’s 7th house of marriage. Jupiter 
rules Kate’s 7th house and is in Swati, a nakshatra of Rahu. Rahu delivers results for 
several planets - Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn. Chief among these are Sun 
and Jupiter, the occupant and lord of the 7th house. 


Thus marriage is seen in both their charts. But will it last? 


Will’s chart, being the accurate one, provides the better springboard for predictions. In 
principle, if the 7th house is focal for indicating marriage, then the 6th house (being 12th 
from the 7th) is critical for seeing marital separation. To see this happen, we need dasha/ 
bhukti lords in combination delivering results for Mercury and Venus who are the occu- 
pants and lord of the 6th. But by inspection of Will’s chart, we see none of his planets 
are in Mercury nakshatras and only Ketu is in a Venus nakshatra. 


So the good news is, only in relatively brief Ketu bhuktis will there be friction in their 
marriage — during Saturn-Ketu, November 2015 to December 2016, and during Mer- 
cury-Ketu, July 2031 to July 2032. That makes for pretty clear sailing up to Ketu dasha 
in 2046-2053 when, rather than marital problems, there might instead be health prob- 
lems for Kate (age 64+). 


Until then, the western world’s media can continue to indulge in a modern fairytale ro- 
mance. Per ardua ad astra — through adversity to the stars. 


Amy Winehouse: filthy-mouthed down-to-earth diva 
(first published 29 September 2011) 


Newsweek magazine called her “a perfect storm of sex kitten, raw talent and poor 
impulse control.” Born September 14, 1983, to British working class parents, Amy Wine- 
house entered the music world with a powerful one-two punch, and until her death on 
July 23, 2011, never stopped swinging. 


Her 2003 debut album Frank received critical acclaim, and her 2006 follow-up album 
Back to Black scored a knockout punch at the Grammys, where she won five awards. 


Both her talent and her style were over the top. Discovered at age 19 by a management 
agency, she was developed secretly by her record label until the release of her first 
album. With an unerring talent for self-promotion, she adopted Cleopatra-style makeup, 
an instantly recognizable beehive hairstyle and an attitude that threw discretion to the 
winds. 


Writing most of her own songs for Back to Black, she was instantly recognized as an 
original musician and lyricist. “It’s impossible not to be seduced by her originality,” said 
one writer. Another quipped, however, that she was one of those “irresistible man traps 
who always seem to come to the same unfortunate end.” 

Despite her incredible talent as a musician, Winehouse was clearly a troubled soul and 
quickly developed a reputation for substance abuse and violence that ran the gamut 
from throwing punches in public to beating up her own spouse. 

Three major themes thus compete for attention in Winehouse's all-too-brief biography — 
Originality, violence and self-destructiveness. All can be seen in her chart. 

Winehouse was born September 14, 1983 at 10:25 PM BST in Enfield, England. (Note: 
all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrol- 
ogy.) 


Amy Wmehouse 


2225, 14 Sep 1983 
Enfield, England 


Taurus is rising with debilitated Rahu close to the ascendant. Rahu is a chaya graha-a 
shadow planet — associated with sudden rises and falls in life. It signifies the rebel, inno- 


vator and outsider. An afflicted Rahu can bequeath a magnetic quality but, just as likely, 
an addictive nature regarding substance abuse, thrill-seeking relationships or outright 
defiance of societal values. 


“| march to the beat of my own drum,” the rebel yells. Indeed, in the last year of her life, 
Amy was learning to play the drums! 


Ascendant lord Venus is in the 3rd house, associated with a debilitated Mars, aspected 
by Jupiter and Saturn. The 3rd house often looms large in the charts of performers, 
whether artistic or athletic. It’s a house of desire, not necessarily for sex alone, but for 
adventure of all kinds. 


Lagnesh Venus is in a mixed state — strong because retrograde, but weak in sandhi (last 
degree of a sign), furthermore gandanta, last degree of a water sign and a fire-earth-air- 
water cycle. (The cusp of a sign is like a fence the wandering planet must briefly straddle 
and, in that transition, is both unstable and vulnerable.) 


The ascendant and its lord are all associated with planets in a state of exaggeration. 
Rahu in the lagna is debilitated. Lagnesh Venus is retrograde and gandanta. Venus is 
furthermore associated with a debilitated Mars, and aspected by an exalted Saturn. 


Lagnesh Venus with debilitated Mars in the 3rd house invokes courage, fighting spirit, 
reckless prowess, lots of attitude and a mean right hook. Saturn’s aspect on Venus 
adds more nastiness to the notion. Exalted Satum in the 6th house is a mixed proposi- 
tion — potential mastery over the competition, but also a callous disregard for one’s own 
health. 


A heavy smoker of both cigarettes and recreational drugs, Winehouse enjoyed only 
70% of her lung capacity, despite warnings from her doctors she was on the road to 
bronchial disaster. Overheated Mars as lord of the 12th house (self-undoing) is associ- 
ated with addictions, and occupies the 3rd house (lungs). 


“They want to make me go to rehab, but | said no, no, no...” 


The dispositor of lagnesh Venus is Moon in the 8th house. It is relatively bright and wax- 
ing, but aspected by Saturn in the 6th house. If we combine the notion of misadventure 
(8rd lord gone to the 8th house) and chronic competitiveness (Saturn in 6th house), we 
get a sense of Winehouse’s gung-ho throw-down attitude to life. 


Her ego was self-evident, both in the way she dressed and the wanton manner in which 
she attacked critics and fans alike. Sun in its own sign in the 4th house with Mercury 
forms one of the few yogas (Budhaditya) in this chart. She probably enjoyed a sense 

of comfort with herself, but felt a need everywhere she tumed to push the envelope, or 
throw a punch at whoever annoyed her, as evidenced by her many arrests and lawsuits 
for assault. 

Winehouse catapulted into fame during the last two bhuktis (Mercury and Ketu) of her 
Venus dasha. Mercury as ruler of the 2nd and 5th houses is strong (retrograde) in the 
4th house. Ketu is exalted in the 7th and associated with Jupiter. 


Once her Sun dasha kicked in, however, her personal life eclipsed her career. Her vio- 
lence and her substance abuse became fodder for the tabloids. She died in Sun dasha, 
Mercury bhukti. Both Sun and Mercury are in Sun’s nakshatra, so deliver 4th house re- 
sults, one of them being moksha or end-of-life. 


In this case, perhaps, transits were more potent than planetary periods. The moon’s 
nodes were exactly halfway through a cycle, the reverse of their natal positions, but 
aligned again on her ascendant. Transiting Sun was in a Saturn nakshatra while tran- 
siting Moon was in a Ketu nakshatra, which proxies for Mars in her natal chart. Both 
Saturn and Mars are exaggerated planets in dusthana (8rd-6th-8th-12th) houses of her 
natal chart, both afflicting her Jagnesh Venus. 


The official autopsy could not determine the cause of her death, and judgment was 
deferred pending further toxicology tests and an inquest scheduled for October 26. In 
the end, however, we can already anticipate hearing what coroners have always said in 
such murky cases: Death by misadventure. 


Whitney Houston: pop diva supreme 
(first published 28 February 2012) 


With a voice that stood like a monument against the landscape of 20th century pop, 
Whitney Houston conquered every worldly ambition, yet succumbed in the end to the 
deep and personal wounds to her soul. 


Whitney was born at 8:55 PM on August 9, 1963, in Newark, New Jersey. (Note: all 
cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Whitney Houston 


20h55, 09 Aug 1963 
Newark, NJ, USA 


Her father was an Army serviceman and entertainment executive, her mother a gospel 
singer. Dionne Warwick was her aunt, Aretha Franklin her godmother. She was raised a 
Baptist and at the age of 11 began to perform as a gospel singer. 


She has several prominent yogas in her chart: two Raja (power) Yogas with Jagnesh 
(ascendant lord) Saturn opposing 4th and 9th lord Venus; another with Saturn and 7th 
lord Sun; yet another with 7th lord Sun and 9th lord Venus; a Chandra-Mangala (wealth) 
Yoga between Moon and Mars, and a powerful Kesari (popularity) Yoga with Moon and 
Jupiter. 


She began singing backup at age 14 and, thanks to her natural beauty, also started 
working as a fashion model at age 17, breaking the color barrier on many magazine 
covers of the day. When she was 20 she attracted the attention of Clive Davis and was 
signed to Arista Records. 


Whitney’s chart reveals a powerful 2nd house, which governs family, wealth and voice. 
Jupiter is doubly strong in the 2nd, being in its own sign Pisces, and retrograde (bright). 
It is fortified by a bright Moon. Jupiter aspects both the 10th house and the 10th lord 
Mars. 


When her debut aloum Whitney Houston was released, its songs scored three #1 
Billboard hits, making it the best-selling debut aloum by a female artist. Ultimately, she 
became the most awarded female act of all time: two Emmys, six Grammys, 30 Bill- 
board awards, 22 American Music awards, for a total of 415 awards in her lifetime. 


With her debut in February 1985 Whitney was running Venus dasha (major period), Mars 
bhukti (minor period). Mars gave results of its nakshatra dispositor Moon, granting her 
significant public appreciation. But when the bhukti shifted to Rahu, giving results of its 
sign dispositor Mercury in the 7th house, and nakshatra dispositor Jupiter in the 2nd 
house, the acclaim became official. 


Nominated for three Grammys in 1986, she won for Best Pop Vocal Performance. She 
won seven American Music Awards in 1986-87. At the 1988 Grammys, her followup 
album Whitney received two nominations and scored yet another win for Best Female 
Pop Vocal Performance. 


“The Voice”, as Whitney was sometimes called, was a mezzo-soprano whose range 
spanned two-and-a-half octaves, sometimes belting it out to almost three. Considered a 
pop diva, there was virtually no one — Celine Dion, Mariah Carey, nor Barbra Streisand — 
who could rival the fluidity and purity of her tone. 


Relationships, principally with husband Bobby Brown, were a source of pain for Whit- 
ney. Every indicator for relationship is influenced by a dusthana (destructive) house. Her 
7th house lord Sun is in the 6th, a dusthana, while the 7th is occupied by the lord of the 
8th, also a dusthana. Venus the karaka (significator) of love is also in the 6th. 


Whitney’s 2nd house is aspected by two malefics — a strong Saturn (retrograde in its 
own sign) from the 12th house, and Mars from the 8th. The 2nd house also repre- 
sents nourishment — food, drink, medications, etc — and the influence of malefics from 
dusthana houses reminds us that not everything ingested is good for us. An afflicted 
2nd house suggests substance abuse, something Whitney admitted in later years. 


Whitney was a humanitarian, as befits her sensitive Moon with powerful Jupiter in 
Pisces. She supported Nelson Mandela and the anti-apartheid movement. She formed 
a foundation to raise funds for children around the world, was a spokesperson for youth 
leadership, and made large donations to the American Red Cross. 


Parallel with her stellar recording career, she received multiple movie offers, and starred 
in The Bodyguard, Waiting to Exhale, and The Preachers’ Wife, all of which received 
popular acclaim and made her at the time the highest earning African American actress 
in Hollywood. 


She enjoyed stellar success throughout most of her Venus dasha: Rahu bhukti 
1985-88, Jupiter 1988-91, Saturn 1991-94, Mercury 1994-97. Saturn bhukti (giving 
results of nakshatra dispositor, 10th lord Mars) was particularly potent, with The Body- 
guard soundtrack album selling a million copies during Christmas week of 1992, racking 
up 17x platinum sales, the best female showing in the world’s Top Ten best-selling al- 
bums. In the 1994 Grammys, the aloum won three awards. 


Things began to unravel in her Sun dasha. The Sun is her 7th lord, ruling relationships 
both personal and public. Sitting in the 6th house, it is afflicted by its powerful enemy 
Saturn, a dusthana lord in its own sign, the 12th house of self-undoing. 


She started being late for interviews, photo shoots and rehearsals. She cancelled con- 


certs and talk-show appearances. Rumors of drug abuse with Bobby Brown began to 
circulate. Although she signed a mammoth $100M contract in 2001, troubles continued 
to mount. Her father died, she lost weight, and she was embroiled in lawsuits. 


Things went from bad to worse in Moon dasha. Bobby Brown starred in his own reality 
show with equal air time for Whitney, albeit in less-than-flattering circumstances. The 
Hollywood Reporter called it “the most disgusting series ever to ooze its way onto tele- 
vision.” After Whitney said she wouldn’t continue for a second season, the show was 
cancelled. 


Houston and Brown separated in September 2006 during her Moon dasha, Rahu 
bhukti, initiating child custody and spousal support lawsuits. Moon is lord of the 6th 
house (undoing of marriage, and litigation) and gives results of nakshatra lord Mercury 
in the 7th house. Rahu gives results of its sign dispositor Mercury in the 7th house, and 
its nakshatra dispositor Jupiter in the 2nd, which is 8th (death) from the 7th house of 
marriage. 


In the following years (bhuktis Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury) Whitney continued perform- 
ing to very mixed reviews, with disappointed fans walking out of some concerts. In May 
2011 she enrolled in a rehab program for drug and alcohol problems, what her media 
rep called part of a “longstanding recovery process.” 


Whitney Houston was found dead on February 11, 2012, in a suite of the Beverly Hilton 
Hotel, submerged in a bathtub. She was running Moon dasha, Ketu bhukti, Ketu gives 
results of planets aspecting it (Mars in the 8th house), sign dispositor (Jupiter as strong 
maraka, or death indicator in the 2nd house), and nakshatra dispositor Venus in the 6th 
house. 


Transiting Sun was conjunct her natal Saturn in the 12th house. Transiting Moon was 
conjunct her natal Mars in the 8th house. 

The voice that had warmed the hearts of millions with songs like / Will Always Love You 
was now silent. 


Welcome to the Demi-monde! 
(first published 31 March 2012) 


Demi-monde: the jet set; people who live hedonistic lifestyles in a conspicuous manner, 
seeking pleasure via drinking, drugs, gambling, promiscuity, and high spending on fash- 
ion, cars and houses. Did someone say, Hollywood? 


Recent tabloid coverage on Demi Moore has her spiralling out of control like a water 
skier whose speedboat has cut her loose. Not that she was getting a free ride from Ash- 
ton Kutcher, but now he has horsepower to spare, and is recklessly making waves. 
Demi Moore was born at 2:16 PM on November 11, 1962 in Roswell, New Mexico, a 
place made famous before her time by the purported crash of an alien space ship in the 
vicinity. 

Demi Moore’s birth time was acquired from Astrotheme.com. (Note: all cuspal and 
planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


14n16, 11 Nov 1962 
Roswell, NM, USA 


Me 171 
Su 2540 


Demi was born to teenage parents who divorced, and she attended 30 different schools 
in the course of 48 domestic moves. Her step-father committed suicide when she was 
16. 


Demi’s 7th house lord Sun is debilitated in Libra in the 9th. This implies a fundamental 
weakness in relationships, perhaps an underlying issue regarding father figures. When 
the Sun, significator for the father, is found in the 9th house also signifying father, this 
creates bhavo karako nashto, roughly translated as “the significator of something in 
the house ruling the same thing destroys the thing itself.” Although a step-father would 
technically be found in the 4th house (8th from the 9th), here we consider it simply as 
“fathers” of any kind. 


Demi dropped out of school to start modelling, did a nude layout for OU/ magazine, and 
played in the daytime soap “General Hospital.” 


Venus in Libra in the 9th house forms Malavya Yoga, archetype for an artist. Although 
combust, Venus is strong via its retrogression. It participates in ‘passion combos’ with 


Mars and Saturn who aspect it, while its angularity from both Moon and Sun increases 
its influence. 


After a brief marriage to musician Freddy Moore, with a high life of drugs and booze 
followed by rehab, she was engaged to marry Emilio Estevez but cancelled at the last 
minute. 


Lagnesh (ascendant lord) Saturn is in its own sign in the 12th house, opposed debili- 
tated Mars, and on the Rahu/Ketu axis. Saturn forms a Raja Yoga with Mars, but in a 
dusthana (house of destruction) its affliction threatens addictions, lawsuit and sexual 
entanglements. 


In 1987 she married Bruce Willis with whom she had three daughters. Her film credits 
gradually increased, including the hit “Ghost” and the bomb “Striptease”, for which latter 
Hollywood paid her a record $12.5M to strut her beautiful body. 


Demi was born on a full moon, giving charisma and public appeal. Moon and Mars are 
in Parivartana Yoga, an exchange of lords of 3rd and 6th houses. This suggests a dare- 
devil, a person of adventures and misadventures, who also succeeds in career, thanks 
to Mars’ rulership of the 10th house. 


After more than a decade of marriage, Demi and Bruce divorced, and she retreated from 
Hollywood to raise her daughters in Idaho. She enjoyed two years of stable relationship 
with a local martial arts instructor before meeting Ashton Kutcher, 15 years her junior. 


Demi’s 7th house of relationships gets mixed reviews. Its lord Sun is debilitated, and 
influenced by many planets — strong benefics Moon and Venus versus malefics Mars 
and Saturn. The 7th house is itself aspected by Jupiter, and Venus, the strong relation- 
ship karaka, is afflicted by three malefics. 


Demi and Ashton married on September 24, 2005, but after rumors that he was seeing 
other women, she filed for divorce in mid-November 2011. 


Ashton 


ASC MO SU VE 
Demi 
eh 


Compatibility between the two is very difficult. Each ascendant (mundane habits) is 
square to the other. Each Moon (rapport) squares each other. Each Sun (values) is 
square, and each Venus (sexuality) square. In fact, all 16 points of comparison are nega- 
tive — a striking prognosis for failure. 


Since the New Year, she’s been reported as grief-stricken, depressed, drinking, in- 
dulging in drugs, and partying like a frat girl on spring break. On January 23, 2012, she 
was rushed to hospital after a severe reaction to an unnamed substance. 


She’s been running Jupiter dasha since January 2006. Jupiter gives the results of its 
nakshatra dispositor Rahu, which occupies the 6th house with debilitated Mars. The 
main concern during this period (aside from relationships) is her health, and she could 
end up back in rehab in 2013. But Rahu also associates with the Mars/Saturn Raja 
Yoga, so watch for a career comeback in 2014-15. 


Pattinson & Stewart: lovers in the twilight zone 
(first published 30 July 2012) 


Christian Fundamentalist parents all over America can rejoice this month, having re- 
ceived proof positive that vampire adulation will send you to hell — along with other devil 
worshippers — just as the good book said. 


This is apparently what’s happened to Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson. Once 
regarded as one of Hollywood’s most beautiful young romances, the couple have sud- 
denly fallen to earth and ended up in media hell, thanks to recent revelations that Stew- 
art had an affair with the director of her latest movie. 

Both stars had shot to fame in 2008, when the first of the Twilight books by Stephenie 
Meyer emerged as a movie, in which Stewart, a normal girl named Bella, became smit- 
ten with Pattinson, the vampire Edward. The feeling was mutual, on and off the screen. 
Birth data for both Stewart and Pattinson was confirmed through astro.com/astro- 
databank and astrotheme.com. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in 
the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Kristen Stewart, 9 April 1990, 9:21 AM, Los Angeles, CA 


Robert Pattinson 
08h32, 13 May 1986 


The immediate reason for the attraction isn’t hard to see. Pattinson has an angular Mars, 
which is the ruler of Kristen’s seventh house. His Venus (karaka for love attraction) is in 
Taurus, which is her ascendant. 


But there is more than a little duality in their charts. Pattinson has his ascendant and 
Moon in Gemini, his Mars in Sagittarius. Stewart has Sun in Pisces, Moon in Virgo. The 
curse of dual signs is ambivalence. 


Movable signs (Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricom) and fixed signs (Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, 
Aquarius) are inclined to seek, secure and savor permanent relationships. The dual signs 
(Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces), not so much. 


Vacillating types won't commit to relationship at all. Or if they do, they often don’t work 
at it, because they’re frequently distracted by other diversions, of which life offers many. 


Other times, the ambivalent type appears to value constancy but seems to be unlucky in 
love, choosing people who are themselves uncommitted, and therefore not likely to hold 
up their end. 


Dig a little deeper into the compatibility prospects for Pattinson and Stewart, the pretty 
picture starts to fade. His Moon is in Gemini, hers in Virgo. These two minds challenge, 
perhaps provoke, each other. Mercury, dubbed the Trickster in Jungian psychology, 
rules both. 


His Sun is in Aries, hers in Pisces. In terms of morals, ethics and values, the effect can 
be undermining. While he puts the pedal to the metal, she may swim in circles. And 
although he may be headstrong, at least he’s upright, while she can get swept up in a 
dream that could become a nightmare. 


His Venus is in Taurus, hers in Aquarius. He’s a romantic, while she’s got a touch of 
hedonism. Affection and sexual compatibility can prove to be a bit of a challenge, the 
more so as time goes by. 


Stewart is currently in the dasha (major period) of Rahu in the 9th house. Rahu always 
acts as a proxy, and in her case, invokes two powerful malefics in the 9th — Saturn in 
its own sign and exalted Mars. With three malefics thus acting in concert in the 9th 
house, this manifests as the undoing (12 houses away from the 10th) of her name and 
reputation. 


She is in the bhukti (minor period) of Venus. Because Venus occupies a nakshatra of 
Rahu (6deg40-20deg00 Aquarius), it reiterates the effect of Rahu noted above. Mean- 
while, Venus also delivers its own results, focusing on the Self (ascendant lord) and the 
undoing of a relationship (6th house lord). Since Venus occupies the public space of the 
10th house, wherein it is hemmed by malefics on either side, her shame has become 
tabloid fodder. 


Pattinson is in the dasha of Saturn. Because Saturn occupies its own nakshatra 
(Sdeg20-16deg40 of Scorpio), it delivers its results full force. As lord of the 8th occupy- 
ing the 6th, it invokes double jeopardy, primarily via loss of relationship (Saturn in the 6th 


is 12th from the 7th.) 


He is in the bhukti of Mercury. Since Mercury occupies a nakshatra of Venus 
(13deg20-26deg40 Aries), it chiefly works for Venus, which both owns and occupies the 
12th, thus making loss of love the primary consequence. Although Mercury covers its 
own interests, as lord of 1st and 4th in the 11th, the comfort of friends and sympathy of 
fans pales in comparison to the hurt and “loss of face.” 


An interesting feature of Pattinson’s chart is his powerful Viparita Yoga activated by 
dasha and bhukti. Viparita always involves two or more dusthana lords, and implies 
misfortunes followed by recovery, the proverbial cloud with a silver lining. 


A common form of Viparita involves dusthana lords exchanging places in other 
dusthana houses, the astrological equivalent of multiplying two negative numbers to get 
a positive, or figuratively “two wrongs make a right.” 


A less common form of Viparita involves dusthana lords in a sambandha (relationship) 
via conjunction or mutual aspect, wherein it doesn’t matter what houses they occupy, 
so long as they fight it out between or among each other without involving any posi- 
tive house lords. Rahu and Ketu are tolerated as bystanders because neither own any 
houses that could be harmed by collateral damage. 


In Pattinson’s chart, Viparita is formed by 8th lord Saturn in the 6th, in mutual aspect 
with 12th lord Venus in the 12th. No other planet is involved. Venus is in its own sign and 
Saturn is retrograde, so this is a very powerful yoga. Furthermore, Pattinson’s 7th lord 
Jupiter is transiting his 12th, from whence it influences the 8th and 12th, as well as both 
their lords, Saturn and Venus. 

Bottom line is, the honeymoon is over. Welcome to the twilight zone. These two may 
drift for a couple of years in search of the silver lining, but eventually they will find it. 


For Pattinson, his Viparita ripens in Saturn-Venus period (January 2014 — March 2017). 
Within that same period, Stewart will run Rahu-Mars (April 2015 — April 2016), thus in- 
voking a powerful impetus for marriage, since Mars rules both the 7th and the 12th. 


In 2015 transiting Jupiter will leave its exaltation sign Cancer and adventure into Leo. 
Maybe they'll pretend to be in love again, on or off the screen. 


Justin Bieber: little boy bad 
(first published 6 September 2012) 


Justin Bieber, Canadian wunderkind of pop music, had a virtually squeaky-clean image 
up until two years ago, but in his Sade Sati period he’s revealed a darker side. 


Bieber was born March 1st 1994 at 12:56 AM in Stratford, Canada. Raised a devout 
Christian by his single mother, he taught himself to play guitar, piano, drums and trum- 
pet. After placing second in a local talent show at age 12, his mom posted his perfor- 
mance on YouTube, along with other videos of him singing R&B ballads. He was discov- 
ered by manager Scooter Braun, who introduced him to Usher, and the rest is history. 


JuR 2032 
Mg 00:59 
Ra os10 
AS os. 


Justin Bieber 
00h56, 01 Mar 1994 
Stratford, ON, Canada 


mae 


Bieber has a cluster of yogas in the 4th house. Lagnesh Mars combines with 4th lord 
Saturn, 7th lord Venus and 10th lord Sun for three Raja Yogas. Saturn in its own sign 
forms Sasha Yoga, giving a substantive fan base, property holdings and fascination with 


Cars. Four planets in the 4th form Pravrajya Yoga, a source of spiritual strength in years 
IQhliQhters:-=---Fer spans <let secs nemo esses tas neensrnet eS ordes visiet ee asiogcit steer seh edsenticssnetdsednseh see de teehee nae 
me. 


Moon and Jupiter in the 12th form another three yogas — Raja Yoga, Dhana Yoga and 
Kesari Yoga, the latter explaining his popular appeal. 


Bieber’s first single appeared in July 2009, while his first album in March 2010 earned 
him the American Music Awards’ Artist of the Year. This all happened in Rahu dasha, 
Venus bhukti. 


Rahu is exalted in the fagna and gives results of Saturn aspecting it and Mars its dispos- 
itor. Saturn is powerful, and Mars/Saturn creates yoga. Venus has dig bala in the 4th, 
primarily giving results of nakshatra dispositor Jupiter and its multiple yogas. 


In May 2012 during Rahu-Sun he bought a 10,000-square-foot mansion outside LA. 
Sun in the 4th sits in Rahu nakshatra, thus invoking both bhumi karaka Mars and Sat- 
urn, the lord and occupant of the 4th of property. 


Bieber is reputed to have 54 million Twitter followers, second only to Katy Perry, and 


ahead of Barack Obama. For any artist, politician or commercial enterprise, the 4th 
IQhliQhters:+-* t= s-res peared teh ee snnn net atn at ree nee een neta ene nN aha nate arenes 


house represents their fan, constituent or customer base. Bieber’s strong 4th, with its 


own lord Saturn and several Raja Yogas, is a bastion of power. 


Romantically, Bieber has so far limited his public alliances to actress/singer Selena 
Gomez. Other than a bogus paternity suit dismissed in November 2011, he’s thus 

far been scandal-free in the relationship department. But the prospects for becoming 
tabloid fodder increase as time goes by. The Rahu-Ketu axis runs through his 1st and 
7th houses, with Ketu debilitated in the 7th and afflicted by Mars. This spells sudden and 
sometimes unwise attractions. 


Seventh lord Venus (relationship karaka) in the 4th is afflicted by three malefics. This is 
a Classic combination for hedonism, a turbo-charged engine whose tank is topped up 
with high-octane fuel, just waiting for the right driver(s) to turn on the ignition. 


Both the Moon and Bieber’s 5th lord Jupiter indicate the mind, and their house position 
indicates where it’s at. The 12th signifies pleasures of the bed, and his current age 
makes that a fascination. Once Jupiter dasha kicks in at age 21, his world may increas- 
ingly become a sexual playground. 


But the 12th is also the place of charitable works and spiritual retreat, and already he’s 
active in several charities. With dharma lords of five and nine participating, his spirituality 
may become more evident after he runs Jupiter-Moon at age 32-33. 


Jupiter occupies its own nakshatra, and will thus favor the 12th house it occupies, and 
the 2nd and 5th it rules. Because the Moon’s there too, the bias will be on the 12th 
house. Although Jupiter dasha could see a prolific period of songwriting, acting and 
other creative pursuits, at the end of the day the Bieb will also kick back and indulge 
himself, since Jupiter is itself the Karaka for over-indulgence. Inevitably, some of that will 
spill over into the public eye. 


If we ever wondered what Sade Sati looks like in a celebrity life, Bieber’s chart offers 
a good example. Although tradition suggests Sade Sati spans the 7.5 years it takes 
Satum to transit the Moon sign and its two flanking signs, it’s instructive to restrict the 
focus. 


We can do that by examining the period (approximately 2.5 years) it takes Saturn to 
transit the Moon sign alone. In Bieber’s case, Saturn entered Libra in November 2011, 
and will exit in November 2014. 

We can further fine-tune our analysis by examining the dasha/bhukti sequence during 
that same time, especially bhukti lords that occupy or rule dusthanas. |n Bieber’s case, 
the sequence is Sun, Moon and Mars. 

Since the Sun neither occupies nor rules a dusthana, we'll ignore its bhukti and focus 
our attention on the Moon (in the 12th) and Mars (ruling the 6th). 

Bieber’s Moon bhukti ran September 2012 to March 2014. Although up until then he’d 
enjoyed great popularity and a squeaky-clean image, things changed during the Moon 
bhukti. 


January 2013, he and Selena Gomez broke up. March 2013, he fainted backstage at a 
London concert and cancelled a Lisbon show due to poor ticket sales. April 2013, social 
media analysis claimed 40% of his Twitter followers were bogus. May 2013, an Ameri- 
can opinion poll judged his image 20% positive, 54% negative. 

January 2014, he was charged with vandalizing a neighbor’s house and arrested while 
DUI. Meanwhile, a quarter million people petitioned to have him deported. 

His Mars bhukti runs March 2014 to March 2015. Although the worst of Sade Sati 
should be over when Saturn leaves Libra November 2014, that still leaves six months of 
trouble. 

June 2014, a video appeared of him singing a song using the N-word. September 2014, 
he was arrested for assault and dangerous driving, and followed that up a week later by 
stripping to his underwear amid boos from the crowd at a fashion show. 

By now his mom is probably holed up, not taking calls, and cursing the day she ever 
posted videos of him on YouTube for the world to discover. 


Taylor Swift: teardrops on my guitar 
(first published 26 November 2072) 


Has Taylor Swift embraced an unstable love life just to inspire more “Teardrops-On-My- 
Guitar” songs? Is this art imitating life, or life imitating astrology? 


In a recent interview, Swift admitted she falls in love quickly, but also insisted she was 
not in a hurry, at age 22, to get married and have kids. “I think every girl’s dream is to 
find a bad boy at the right time, when he wants to not be bad anymore.” Ironically, de- 
spite her tendency to leap before she looks, Swift isn’t sure she’s ever been in love. 
Can astrology shed some light on these contradictions by analysing relationships in her 
birth chart? 

Taylor Swift was born December 13th, 1989, at 8:46 PM in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania. 


Birth data courtesy of astrotheme.com. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions 
are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


yto 
20h46, 13 Dec 1989 


Wyomissing, PA, USA 


Venus sits in Swift’s 7th house of relationships, so you’d think that’d be a good thing. 
After all, Venus is the karaka (significator) of love and pleasure. And the 7th house is the 
home of “The Significant Other.” One plus one makes two-getherness, right? 


Nope. The classic texts of Vedic astrology call this karako bhavo nashto, a condition 
where in fact it’s best not to have all your eggs in one basket, because one blow to that 
basket could break all your eggs. 


So Venus in her 7th house — what seems to promise romantic bliss — is actually a set-up 
for a fall, because the Rahu/Ketu axis destabilizes both the planet and the house associ- 
ated with relationships. 


When that happens to Swift, she finds catharsis by singing her heart out in music. It 
pains her, but it pays, because in an angular house, Venus can still deliver the good stuff. 
Rahu in the 7th has dig bala, directional strength that makes it potent. Because of its 
power to cause eclipses, the Rahu/Ketu axis is associated with unusual and unpre- 
dictable people and circumstances. That can mean experimental, unconventional or 


downright quirky alliances. 


Taylor’s love life flickers bright and dark — people coming out of nowhere, and just as 
quickly returning to never-gonna-make-up-again land. Joe Jonas, Taylor Lautner, John 
Mayer, Jake Gyllenhaal... Stop the boy-go-round, | wanna get off. 


Swift has Capricom in the 7th. Its lord Saturn is in the 6th, one of the dusthanas, or 
houses of destruction. (The others are the 8th and 12th, and mildly, the 3rd.) The 6th 
house is especially bad for relationships because it’s in the 12th house — as counted 
from the 7th. That makes it misery-making for partnerships as well. 


Her ascendant lord Moon occupies the 12th house. This is another dusthana for her, 
implying self-undoing, and also one from the 7th house of the partner. Her Moon in the 
12th enjoys a full-on aspect with 7th lord Saturn in the 6th. That initiates contact with 
potential mates, but involves relationships that can be confrontational and erosive. 


Her Gemini Moon is twitchy — emotionally and sexually. Its close association with a bright 
(retrograde) Jupiter gives her luck, abundance, generosity, a spiritual boost and wisdom 
with age. But Moon is afflicted by Saturn from the 6th and Mars from the 5th — and 
there’s the itch that can’t be scratched. 


Moon afflicted by both Mars and Saturn is a ‘passion player’, someone who’s amorous. 
The 12th house — pleasures of the bed — suggests the playing field. Venus afflicted by 
Rahu/Ketu can be very adventurous in relationships. ‘Don’t knock it until you’ve tried it’ 
could be a song title. 


Will Swift ever settle down in a stable marriage? 2020’s looking good, when Saturn will 
transit its own 7th house. Furthermore, from October 2020 to May 2022, she'll be in the 
bhukti (minor period) of ascendant lord Moon during the dasha (major period) of 7th lord 
Saturn. 


Aside from bringing together the Self and the Significant Other, via these two ruling 
planets that mutually aspect each other, this period will fully arouse her passions in a re- 
lationship that may well raise eyebrows. 

Since Moon is in a nakshatra of Rahu, the Moon bhukti will deliver the goods for Rahu. 
Passionate Rahu sits in the 7th with Venus, invoking love relationship, and probably mar- 
riage, albeit of an unusual character. 

Will that be the end of her “I-Knew-You-Were-Trouble” songs? Probably not. Venus in 
the 7th is karako bhavo nashto, after all, and it is still destabilized by Rahu, creating a 
combo that is both erratic and erotic. 


Beware the seven-year-itch. 


Lindsay Lohan: fully loaded 
(first published 19 January 2013) 


If anyone needed evidence of Rahu’s power to turn an otherwise charmed life into a shit- 
storm of trouble, look no further than Lindsay Lohan. 


Lindsay (LiLo) Lohan was born July 2, 1986, at 9:50 PM in New York. Birth data cour- 
tesy of Astrotheme.com. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the side- 
real zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Her mother was a singer/dancer, her father a Wall Street trader. She began a career as 
a child fashion model when she was three, and was acting in the soap opera Another 
World by the time she was ten. 


Aiming to become a triple threat — actor, singer and dancer — like her role model Marilyn 
Monroe, over the next 10 years she enjoyed an almost unbroken run of good fortune. 
She acted in several movies, including The Parent Trap, Freaky Friday, Mean Girls and 
Herbie: Fully Loaded, all of which met with critical and box office success. 


With unconscious prescience, however, a critic of The Parent Trap remarked at the 
time that, “she is more adept than her predecessor [Hayley Mills] at creating two distinct 
personalities.” 


Then her car jumped the curb, literally and figuratively. Like every good drama, there was 
some fore-shadowing in 2006 when she started partying like a frat girl, and the first of 
many car accidents occurred. By the time 2007 rolled around, she’d fully morphed into 
her new-found persona of Good Girl Gone Bad, Really Bad. 


It’s been a train wreck ever since: one car accident after another, DUI convictions, 
community service, in and out of rehab, drug possession, jail time, legal issues, industry 
doubts about her work ethic, man troubles, girl-on-girl action, probation violations, theft, 
more legal issues, disastrous box office and critical flops, assault charges, and more 
family drama than you can shake a stick at. 


If you can bear to watch rampant self-destruction in action, this is one of the biggest 
movies in town, and it’s live! 


Lohan has a relatively unremarkable chart. She has two Raja Yogas — Moon/Saturn in 
the 5/11 axis, Mercury/Venus in the 7th. Her Moon/Jupiter in mutual kendras creates a 
Kesari Yoga (the schmoozer). Parivartana Yoga with Moon/Venus exchanging houses in 
the 5th and 7th can indicate a person whose mind is always on sex. 


There were hints of troubles to come. Venus in the 7th is karako bhavo nashto, indicat- 
ing relationship problems. Rahu/Ketu in the kendras can manifest as a rebel without a 
Cause. 


Most troubling are signs of a disturbed manas, her emotional mind. Destabilizing Rahu 
is in the 4th house; lord of the 4th, Mars, is afflicted in the 12th; Moon, significator of the 
manas, is afflicted by a powerful (retrograde) Saturn. These things aren’t enough to put 
her in a mental institution, but they do encourage visits. 


But take an unremarkable chart and give it a good dasha sequence, you get a life like 
Lohan's. 


Her Moon dasha ran 10 years, January 1990 to January 2000. The Moon mainly works 
for its nakshatra dispositor Sun. The Sun in the 6th (a malefic in an upachaya house) 
gives employment and tramples the competition. It doesn’t hurt that the Moon is exalted 
in the 5th house and participates in two major yogas. Recall, this was the era of her child 
modelling and soap opera role. 


January 2000 to January 2007 marked her seven-year Mars dasha. Mars delivers 
results for its nakshatra dispositor Venus. Participating in two yogas, Venus in a kendra 
can deliver a public performance. But Mars’ placement in the dusthana 12th acts out as 
self-undoing. Thus, a mixed period. 


Rahu took control in January 2007 and that’s when the party turned ugly. Rahu rules all 
poisons — cigarettes, alcohol and drugs — and Lohan has them all in one purse. Rahu 
dasha will run January 2007 to January never-mind-what-year because she might not 
make it that far. It’s 18 years, let her do the math. But can she handle 12 more years of 
what we've seen in the past six? 


They make me want to go to rehab but I say no, no, no...? 


Rahu acts as a proxy for its associate, aspecting or dispositing planet(s). Rahu has no 
associates or aspecting planets, so it does all the dirty work for its dispositor Mars. With 
the 4th lord Mars in the 12th, that spells trouble for vehicles or state of mind. That could 
mean loss of a vehicle, or Lohan could become institutionalized — in hospital, rehab and 
jail. 

Stop the car, | want to take off my anklet. 

For confirmation, see Rahu’s placement from Chandralagna — treating the Moon as if it 
were the ascendant. Thus, Rahu occupies the 12th from the Moon, indicating loss and 
incarceration. Rahu then acts as a proxy for Mars, lord of the 7th from the Moon, occu- 
pying the 8th from the Moon. Relationships, and public relations, could turn negative. 


Chandralagna is hemmed by malefics in a Papakartari Yoga. Opposing the Moon is 
Saturn hemmed by malefics in a Papadhi Yoga. This pattern puts a terrible strain on the 
manas that functions as the body’s operating system. Worst scenario, it may presage a 
nervous breakdown. 


Is there a way out of this? 


Everyone deserves salvation, and we all like to see an underdog make a comeback. 
There’s no better time than now for Lohan to make the effort. She runs Saturn bhukti 
from March 2012 to Jan 2015. Saturn owns two positive houses (1st = Self and 2nd 
= bankability) and occupies the 11th house, an upachaya (improvement) house where 
maletics do well. 


Saturn occupies its own nakshatra and is exalted in the navamsa chart. The Saturn 
bhukti thus offers promise of renewal through the traditional Saturnine virtues — sobriety, 
deep self-reflection, and a disciplined lifestyle on both personal and professional levels. 


Come on, Lindsay, you can do it. Love yourself and save yourself. 


Oscar Pistorius: blade running for his life 
(first published 12 March 2013) 


Life is full of mysteries. One of them is, How did a guy like this end up in a mess like 
that? 


Oscar Pistorius is affectionately known as the Blade Runner, thanks to the prosthetic 
“feet” with which he’s propelled himself into the athletic spotlight over the past decade, 
into the hearts of South Africans in particular and the handicapped world in general. 


Pistorius was born with fibular hemimelia (congenital absence of the fibula) in both legs. 
At 11 months old, his legs were amputated halfway between knees and ankles. Despite 
this, as a schoolboy he participated in rugby, water polo, tennis and wrestling before ac- 
quiring the prosthetics that enabled him to compete in running events. 


Called “the fastest man on no legs”, he’s competed in three Summer Paralympics. In 
2004 he won gold in the 200-meter category; in 2008, gold for 100m; in 2012, silver for 
200m, gold for 400m, and gold for the 400m relay. 


He’s been awarded BBC Sports Personality of the Year, made Time magazine’s annual 
list of the world’s most influential people, and received an honorary doctorate for his 
achievements. He’s pulled in sponsorship deals from Nike and other corporations worth 
$2M a year. 


He overcame incredible odds to enter the winner’s circle of life - world-class athletic sta- 
tus, lucrative sponsorship deals, and a relationship with a beautiful and talented woman, 
model and lawyer Reeva Steenkamp. 


Yet in the early morning hours of February 14, 2013, Pistorius shot and killed Reeva, 
whom he allegedly mistook for an intruder in his home. The following day he was 
charged with murder, the next week in court while prosecution and defence attorneys 
presented preliminary evidence in his case. Pistorius was subsequently charged with 
pre-meditated murder but released on $113,000 bail. 


Pistorius was born 22 November 1986 in Johannesburg, South Africa. Family recollec- 

tion places his birth-time between 10:30-11:30 AM. For the purpose of this article, the 

author used 10:30 AM. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the side- 
real zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Oscar Pistorius 
10h30, 22 Nov 1986 


dohannesburg, S. Africa 


Because the ascendant changes from Capricorn to Aquarius after 11:18 AM, we must 
ask ourselves, given the uncertainty of his recollected birth time, is this the right ascen- 
dant? 


Pistorius was involved in a major boating accident on 21 February 2009 in which he 
almost died. He spent a week in hospital, undergoing surgery to repair broken facial 
bones including nose and jaw. Transiting lagnesh Saturn was in the 8th house, while 
transiting Mars was exactly on his 19-degree CP ascendant. Although this isn’t definitive 
proof of the birth-time, it does reassure us the ascendant is almost certainly Capricorn. 


Pistorius has a strong chart, although it reminds one more of an artist than an athlete. 
A strong Venus, retrograde in its own sign in the 10th house, forms multiple yogas — 
Malavya Yoga on its own, Raja Yoga with Mercury, and Amala Yoga with the help of 
Mercury and Jupiter. 


The Moon in its own sign in the 7th house, coupled with a strong Venus also ina 
kendra, is a common signature for an artist. Certainly his powerful Moon explains the 
public’s love affair with him, not to mention a companion who commanded a certain 
limelight of her own. 


He has a Mars-Saturn Parivartana Yoga involving the 2nd and 11th houses, effectively 
a Dhana Yoga for wealth, while a Shakata Yoga with Moon/Jupiter in a 6/8 relationship 
threatens his ability to hold onto it. 


Although his public image was nearly impeccable, Pistorius had a darker side. Privately, 
he could be loud and abusive. He was edgy, constantly in motion and reckless. He 
wasn’t a good loser, and often launched noisy protests against competing athletes and 
their prosthetics. He loved fast cars, soeedboats and collecting guns. He was jealous 
and controlling in relationships, and threatened violence against a man over the affec- 
tions of a girlfriend. In 2009 he was charged with assault for slamming a door on a 
woman. 

Saturn plays a strong role in his chart. It rules and aspects his ascendant, and is associ- 
ated with his Sun, the 8th lord of trauma. It is nakshatra dispositor of both his Sun and 
Moon, thus reflecting both inner self-doubts and burning ambitions. 


At the time of the shooting, he was in Mercury dasha, Saturn bhukti. Mercury is lord of 
6th and 9th in the 10th, wherein it served him well to compete for social status. But Mer- 
Cury also delivers on behalf of its nakshatra dispositor Rahu. Rahu is a proxy for its sign 
dispositor Jupiter, ruling the 3rd and 12th, both dusthanas, and potentially the source of 
his undoing due to some uncontrollable desire. 


Saturn is lord of 1st and 2nd in the 11th, where it generates both wealth and a “voice” in 
his community. But Saturn also delivers for its nakshatra lord Mercury, whose rulership 
of the 6th and 9th brings him into conflict with the police and judiciary. 


He returns to court June 4th, and his Ketu dasha starts in August. Ketu, a malefic in the 
9th, aspected only by another malefic Mars, doesn’t look good for a man who is facing 
trial-by-judge. Ketu is also known as “the headless one”, which generally evokes the 
notion of Ketu’s spirit escaping the dictates of an ego. In this case it could also describe 
the judge, who must be more heartless than headless, divorcing him (or her) from the 
public opinion which, in a trial-by-jury system, would almost certainly have resulted in a 
hung jury and dismissal of the case against Pistorius. 


In November 2013, transiting Saturn will enter Vishakha nakshatra, whose lord Jupiter 


rules Pistorius’ 12th house. Whatever the judgment, a period of incarceration seems 
likely, at least for the time it takes Saturn to transit the 11th and 12th houses. 


Miley Cyrus & Pop Tarts Anonymous 
(first published 8 October 2013) 


“Hi, my name is Miley and |’m a twerkaholic. Don’t judge.” 


Ever since Miley Cyrus appeared with Robin Thicke on the Video Music Awards, 25 
August 2013, the world has been reeling with the image of the tongue-twisting pop tart 
in flesh-colored short shorts doing the next-to-nasty on prime time network TV. 


Shocking, perhaps, but isn’t this what show biz has become in the 21st Century? As 
talent maven Simon Cowell has pointed out, “I want people to understand that, from the 
minute Lady Gaga arrived, she created a new set of rules. Being different is good; em- 
brace it.” 


So Miley isn’t trying to shock so much as she’s just trying to be different — apparently by 
dancing to the beat of her inner stripper. But what’s the big deal? This is hardly ground- 
breaking behavior. She’s just following in the footsteps of a much older shockmeister, 
Madonna, whose fondness for dancing in her underwear and simulating sex onstage 
came out during her Blond Ambition tour way back in 1990. Miley was only two years 
old then! 

In any event, Miley Cyrus was born to be a rebel. It’s written all over her chart. She was 
bom 23 November 1992 at 6:37 AM in Franklin, Tennessee. (Note: all cuspal and plan- 
etary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Miley Cyrus 


06h37, 23 Nov 1992 
Franklin, TN, USA 


MeR 0337 
Su ora 
As 0746 
Ra 2.41 


She has Scorpio rising with Sun, Mercury and Rahu in the first house. The Sun/Mercury 
combo gives a Budhaditya Yoga, amped up by the presence of an exalted Rahu, sug- 
gesting not only considerable cunning on board, but also the charisma to take it to the 
limit. 10th lord Sun with Rahu in the first makes for a Raja Yoga that gives ambition, cre- 
ativity and a strong desire for control. 


About Miley’s post-VMA remark, saying she hadn't really thought about what she was 
doing up there onstage, don’t buy it. It may have been bad judgment, but it was almost 
certainly calculated to shock and awe. Typically, the Scorpio-influenced individual isn’t 
afraid of drama; they suck it up. 


With the Rahu/Ketu axis running through her ascendant, we see the classic signature for 
an innovator and rebel. Such a person can be a ground-breaking genius or just a kook, 
or anything in between. Many people with this configuration just can’t help doing things 
— consciously or unconsciously — that call attention to their differentness. The real chal- 
lenge is to do what delights, educates or inspires others. 


With Miley’s ascendant lord Mars debilitated in the 9th, there’s a theme of crookedness 
at work. Not illegal, but devious. Because of Mars’ very irregular orbital motion, which 
astronomers were unable to mathematically rationalize until the modern era, it was long 
dubbed by Hindu astrologers as vakra, the crooked one. Obviously, there’s a double 
meaning, and Martians can indeed be a little bent, moving in unconventional ways. 


lronically, she may struggle with moral issues on a regular basis. However much her 
father appears to support her, in her chart every factor related to him is deficient or 
troubled, suggesting a profound clash of values at some level or another. Crooked Mars 
is debilitated in the 9th. The 9th lord Moon is dark in the 12th, aspected by malefics 
Mars and Saturn in mutual opposition. Karaka Sun scores low shad bala and lies on the 
Rahu/Ketu axis. 


Miley is running Saturn dasha. Saturn is the strongest planet in her chart, and gives her 
prowess and courage in performance. Saturn dasha started in 2000, after which she 
began her acting career in 2001. Lagnesh Mars and Saturn (lords of 1st and 4th) form 
Raja Yoga. Given the mutual aspect between them, it could reflect a symbiosis of values 
between Miley (debilitated Mars) and her fan base (swaha Saturn). 


Saturn primarily gives the results of its nakshatra dispositor Moon in 12th house Libra. 
Wherever goes the Moon goes the mind. The 12th is all about moksha and one kind of 
letting go or another. The 12th reflects pleasures of the bed, so her sexual persona is 
bound to loom large in this era. Sex is, after all, just another form of liberation and letting 
go — which could also include image, health, money, soul... 


Miley is running Mars bhukti. Because Mars is the ascendant lord, this reflects a signifi- 
cant period for both her image and health. But Mars is unstable — debilitated in Cancer 
and afflicted by aspect from natural enemy Saturn. Hence, the storm of protest in the 
wake of her VMA performance, first from the media, then the mothers of America, then 
her boyfriend Liam Hemsworth, finally even gay pop icon Sinead O'Connor. 


Is her image tarnished? Yes, to a degree. But she’s following a road that’s already been 
mapped by uber-iconoclast Madonna and fashionista Lady Gaga, both of whom have 
garnered mixed reviews for the various things they’ve done in the public eye. 


Miley’s Mars primarily gives results for its nakshatra dispositor Saturn. So courage and 
prowess appear onstage again, ready for the next (mis-)adventure. Miley probably un- 
derstands that it’s just a question of moving on to the next project. You can’t shoot a 
moving target. 


Dasha lord Saturn transits Libra from November 2011 to November 2014. This outlines 
a three-year period of sade sati for Miley, when Saturn crosses her moon sign. It can 


spell a period of mixed reviews, especially since the Moon is natally weak, and Saturn is 
strong, both natally in Capricorn and by transit in Libra. 


On the day of the VMA, bhukti lord Mars transited within a degree of its natal position, 
invoking a nasty case of debilitation redux. And from the 9th, Mars mutually aspected 
transiting Saturn in the 12th. This sambandha of traditional enemies echoed the mutual 
aspect of these two malefics across the 3rd/9th house axis in her natal chart. 


Bhukti lord Mars gives results for Saturn, promoting desire and courage and perhaps a 
bit of reckless behavior. But it’s the combined aspect of Mars and Saturn on the Moon 
that creates a powerful combination for passion and the sexual behavior that inevitably 
follows. 

What’s next for Miley? Dasha lord Saturn occupies the 3rd house, a kama (desire for 
pleasure) house. It gives results for its nakshatra dispositor Moon in the 12th house, 
associated with loss and letting go. Having recently broken up with boyfriend Liam 
Hemsworth, a young girl’s fancy turns to... bed? 


Will a scandal result? Perhaps only if Miley and her publicist judge it worthy of revelation. 


Michael Schumacher: an accidental irony 
(first published 2 January 2014) 


Michael Schumacher suffered severe head trauma during a skiing accident in the French 
Alps on December 29, 2013. As of this writing, he remains in stable but critical condition 
after doctors performed neurosurgery to relieve pressure from a blood clot in his brain. 
The irony is that Schumacher is a seven-time Formula One winner who has driven over 
300 races, in any of which he could have died. He retired from racing in 2012. 
Schumacher was born January 3rd, 1969, at 1:43 PM in Hurth, Germany. (Note: all 
cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Michael! Schumacher 


13h43, 03 Jan 1969 
Hurth. Germany 


His birth chart is neither remarkable nor ominous. His ascendant is aspected by Mars, 
Saturn and Jupiter. The Sun occupies the 8th house of accidents. The 8th lord Jupiter 
lies on the RA-KE axis in the 5th house. 


Thus, accidents could be expected during periods of the Sun or Jupiter, or of Ketu with 
which Jupiter is associated. Even more potent would be the periods of planets who oc- 
cupy Sun or Jupiter nakshatras, of which Mercury is the only candidate. 


The accident occurred at 11:07 AM in Meribel, France. (see chart below) Speed was 
apparently not a factor. Schumacher was crossing a zone between two slopes when he 
struck a rock hidden by a recent snowfall, was catapulted into the air, and struck some 
other rocks head-first. The helmet which probably saved his life was broken in two under 
the impact. 


Schumacher ski accident 


11h07, 29 Dee 2013 
Meribel, France 


Schumacher was running Mercury dasha, Venus bhukti. According to the KP Method 
(Krishnamurthi Paddhati), Mercury primarily gives the results of its star lord, Sun in the 
8th (accidents). Venus favors results of its star lord, Mars in the 6th which also owns the 
trikasthana 12th (hospitalisation). 


Likewise, as per the KP Method, it’s typical to study the transits of Jupiter, Sun and 
Moon. Between them, they act as triggers on an annual, monthly or daily basis, respec- 
tively. In their transits, they deliver results on behalf of the lords of nakshatras they pass 
through. 


At the time of the accident, transiting Jupiter and Moon were in Jupiter nakshatras. Both 
therefore “work” for Jupiter, the lord of the 8th house (accidents) in the natal Sth (sports 
and recreation). Transiting Sun was in a Venus nakshatra. 


Aside from being the lord of the 6th house, Venus plays a less-obvious but no less 
sinister role in Schumacher’s chart, where it is a chhidra graha. This can be one or more 
planets that own the exact 8th house cuspal point counted from either the ascendant 
or the Moon. Because of this association with the 8th house, chhidra grahas have the 
power to do harm 


In Schumacher’s chart, his ascendant is 05 Taurus 58. Therefore, the 8th cuspal point 
from the ascendant is 05 Sagittarius 58. The danger zone within which this degree is 
contained is called the 22nd drekkana, or the 64th navamsa. 


Nie 


SSK 
Se 
Law / SYN aS 


It can be seen via the 8th house in the D3, or the 4th house in the D9 chart. The re- 
spective lords thus become chhidra grahas. In Schumacher’s D8, the lord of the 8th is 
Jupiter. In his D9, the lord of the 4th is Venus. 

Similarly, Schumacher’s Moon is 16 Gemini 56. Therefore, the 8th cuspal point from the 
Moon is 16 Capricorn 56. In Schumacher’s D3, the lord of the 8th from the Moon is 
Venus. In his D9, the lord of the 4th from the Moon is Mercury. 

Thus, out of four possible planets, Venus is chhidra graha twice over. Although this may 
not be classic KP methodology, | suspect the Sun’s transit though a Venus nakshatra 
was also contributory to this tragic accident. 


Let’s all pray for his recovery. 


Robin Williams’ divine spark of madness 
(first published 14 August 2014) 


Eclipses have an awesome capacity to plunge us into darkness, leaving us wondering 
what the hell happened. In the wake of Robin Williams’ suicide, such is the collective 
state of mind of fans throughout the western world. 


lf there was one word to describe Robin Williams, it might have to be manic. As far as 
we saw, there was nothing nasty or threatening about it, but he possessed an irrepress- 
ible level of energy. 


He was the toy wound up so tight that, once set loose, spun wildly out of control in ways 
that surprised and delighted us. He was the lovable child with ADHD who couldn't sit 
still, but was so entertaining that, after your stomach stopped aching from belly laughs, 
you just wanted to give him a big hug. 


Ultimately, he was the jack-in-the-box that sprang from our TVs to startle us with his 
physical antics, his motor-mouth delivery, and his off-the-wall quick-change persona 
that defied containment. Truly, once he was set loose in the media world, the genie was 
out of the bottle. 


Robin Williams was born July 21, 1951, at 1:34 CST PM in Chicago, Illinois Birth data 
courtesy AstroDataBank. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the 
sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Sa or 
6 


14h34, 21 Jul 1951 
Chicago, USA 


Mo 16214} 


VANS 


The Moon’s nodes play a dominant and defining role in his chart. Rahu and Ketu, the 
north and south nodes, respectively, are associated with aberrant, iconoclastic, innova- 
tive, oddball, quirky, rebellious, strange and unconventional behavior. 


Williams’ ascendant lord Venus lies directly on the Rahu/Ketu axis. So does his Moon, 
the secondary indicator of the Self in any person’s chart. These two factors alone might 
have dictated a personality, a lifestyle or a career that eagerly embraced invention, nov- 
elty or unknown territory. 


Rahu itself is strong, occupying its own nakshatra and sitting in Aquarius, the moola- 


trikona sign of Saturn. On a generic level, Rahu acts like Saturn and through its moola- 
trikona sign embraces that which lies beyond the pale, out on the fringe, beyond the 
norm. 


Williams’ ascendant and three of his planets (Moon, Mars and Rahu itself) occupy Rahu 
nakshatras. As if Rahu’s influence on lagnesh Venus and Moon weren't enough, its 
quirky nature was also invoked every time Williams ran a Moon, Mars or Rahu bhukti. 
(As per Krishnamurti Paddhati, dasha and bhukti lords during their periods act on behalf 
of their star-lords). 


Williams shot to fame in September 1978 as the star of the sitcom Mork & Mindy. He 
was running SA-KE at the time. Although Saturn occupies the 12th house, it sits ina 
Sun nakshatra and therefore invoked Williams’ Sun, lord of the 11th, in the 10th house 
with dig bala. 


Williams had three marriages. His 7th lord Mars sits in dual sign Gemini, aspected only 
by Saturn. Venus the karaka of love relationships sits on the Rahu/Ketu axis. Venus is 
debilitated in the navamsa and afflicted by both Mars and the Rahu/Ketu axis. 


Mars also ruled his 2nd house of diet, which was eclectic to say the least, veering from 
alcohol and cocaine to strictly vegetarian, and then back again to accommodate his on- 
and-off-again struggles between sobriety and substance abuse. 


The 2nd house also rules speech and verbal facility. Williams was a brilliant imitator, and 
in a single skit was capable of playing multiple roles in a dialog that ping-ponged back 
and forth between different voices, leaving his audience gasping for breath between 
laughs. 


Although mentally agile, verbally quick-witted and extremely engaging when he chose 
to be so, Williams also suffered recurring and debilitating bouts of depression. |n jyotish, 
the emotional state of mind can be judged via a consideration of the manas. Technically, 
this is the part of the mind that registers sense impressions and thus forms the basis of 
raga and dvesha (attraction and repulsion), and thereafter influences behavior through a 
pursuit of pleasure and avoidance of pain. 


The 4th house is the seat of the emotional mind. Thus, we can examine it for stress by 
occupancy or aspect by Saturn or Rahu, the two grahas that seize and possess the 
mind with anxiety and dread. However, neither of them occupy or aspect the 4th house, 
so as far as that first phase of analysis is concerned, there’s no problem. 


Saturn is the lord of the 4th but that’s natural for anyone with a Libra or Scorpio ascen- 
dant. However, in Williams’ case, Saturn has gone to the 12th house and that does 
pose a problem, figuratively suggesting that the mind is “at a loss”, or “peace of mind” 
has gone missing. 


Although the 4th house and its lord are its primary significators, the karaka or generic 
indicator of the manas is the Moon. And there’s the rub. Williams’ Moon is in Aquarius, 
a sign ruled by Saturn, and in Satabhisha, a nakshatra ruled by Rahu. Furthermore, 
the Moon is in close conjunction with Rahu itself. Even in the navamsa, the Moon is in 


Aquarius with its sign-lord Saturn. 


The oppressive influence of Saturn and Rahu on the Moon are destabilizing for the mind. 
This can result in anxiety disorders, depression, neuroses, paranoia and other psycho- 
logical problems. 


If we examine Williams’ dasha sequence, we can see that he’s had a lifetime of struggle 
with isolation and loss. He was born into Rahu dasha. Among other influences, Rahu 
acts as a proxy for its sign-lord Saturn positioned in the 12th house of loss. Next came 
Jupiter dasha, whose star-lord is Mercury, which rules the 12th house. As for Saturn 
dasha, the planet of loneliness itself occupies the 12th. As for Mercury dasha, Mercury 
owns the 12th. 


Only in Ketu dasha is there a departure from this consistent 12th-house trajectory. The 
nodes give results of planets with which they are associated, which aspect them, or rule 
the signs in which they are found. In the case of Ketu, its primary “client” is Venus, ruling 
both the 1st (the Self) and the 8th (trauma and death). 


Williams died during KE-ME. As noted above, Ketu dasha set the larger stage for trauma 
or death. But Mercury bhukti was a powerful driver for isolation, loss and surrender, be- 
cause Mercury is in its own nakshatra. 


Before we consider what might have precipitated Williams’ suicide, we must first ask 
ourselves whether there was anything in his chart to suggest that possibility. Although 
there are many combinations for suicide, one of them involves mutual Mars/Saturn as- 
pects, typically across the 6/12 house axis. 


In Williams’ case, we do have sambandha (bonding) between Mars and Saturn, cour- 
tesy their special aspects from the 9th and 12th houses, respectively. In this chart, Mars 
is a double maraka, or agent of death. Interestingly, it also occupies the nakshatra of 
Ardra, the vale of tears. 


With the stage set in KE-ME, and the main actors Mars and Saturn identified, there 
remained only the final combination of forces to align. The week of Williams’ death, tran- 
siting Mars and Saturn were together in Libra, within a few degrees on either side of his 
ascendant. Mars was in Swati, the same Rahu-ruled nakshatra of Williams’ ascendant. 


The evening of August 10th, the Moon re-entered its natal sign of Aquarius. During the 
hours between midnight and two AM, the local ascendant was in Taurus, the sign of 
Williams’ 8th house. A combination of circumstance and emotions, kindling anxiety and 
despair, likely conspired to make Williams believe that now was as good a time as any to 
leave the world. 


If only he’d asked, the world would have shouted, No, we need you — your genius, your 
spirit, your comic gift that made us laugh so hard we forgot ourselves, even if only for 
a few minutes. 


But we will not forget you. 


Lady Gaga rides a big snake 
(first published 24 November 2014) 


Even from her earliest days as a performance artist and musician, Lady Gaga was 
deemed to be too provocative and eccentric. Which only goes to show, if you just stick 
with what you’re good at, you can make it work. 

Lady Gaga recently revealed her birth time on her Twitter feed, so that means about 42 
million people now know about it, even if only a few of us know what to make of it. So 
here’s the scoop: 

Lady Gaga was born 28 March 1986 at 9:53 AM in Manhattan, NY. (Note: all cuspal 
and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


9 
Ma osu 
8 
VNU 


Lady Gaga has Gemini rising, with retrograde Mercury strong in the 9th and supported 
by Jupiter. Her Mercury/Jupiter combo forms a pair of Raja Yogas. Although she never 
finished university, during art school she wrote essays and analytical papers on art, reli- 
gion, social issues and politics, including a thesis on pop artists. 


Academia has since repaid her the favor. The University of South Carolina recently intro- 
duced a course titled “Lady Gaga and the Sociology of Fame.” A new genus of ferns and 
two new species have been named after her. 


Only Sun and Mars are angular. Third lord Sun with dig bala in the 10th speaks to her 
songwriting and performance skills. Mars as lord of the 6th and 11th represents both her 
fierce competitive streak and her earning potential. 


Mars is a key planet for innovators. Admittedly, there’s a shit-disturbing aspect to its 
character but Mars is also known as Vakra, the crooked one. That’s because its orbital 
period appears so eccentric from a terrestrial point of view. Because of its perceived 
“crookedness’”, Mars is also a signature planet for inventors, iconoclasts and outlaws. 


Sun/Mars angular is representative of the kshatriya caste, and although this doesn’t 


speak to her artistic profession per se, it does reflect her bold public stance against bul- 
lying and homophobia, as well as her activism in numerous social causes to which she’s 


lent either financial or role model support. 


But the core of Gaga’s identity is a Kala Sarpa Yoga that runs through her 5th and 11th 
houses. Some ancient texts describe Kala Sarpa as a major flaw in a birth chart, a yoga 
which foretells loss of everything, while others say it bestows the power of a king, as- 
suming the child who possesses it survives. It reminds us of that old saying, Beware of 
fire and water and Tantriks, for all three have the power to take your life. 


Lady Gaga’s Kala Sarpa is not “pure” in the sense that a strict definition of the yoga 
requires the nodes to be alone in their respective houses, and all the other planets span- 
ning one side of their axis. But it is “clean” in the sense that, even though the Moon and 
Venus share signs with Ketu and Rahu, at least they’re on the same side of the nodal 
axis as all the other planets. And this alignment with the nodes gives the Moon and 
Venus enormous stage presence. 


Moon and Venus in combination is unofficially an “artist’s yoga”, where the Moon repre- 
sents both the personality and the public, while Venus is the art. Some critics like Camille 
Paglia have accused Gaga of being just a little too studied in her performance shock art, 
while others say she’s sacrificed the substance of songwriting on the altar of the beat. 


Sell the sizzle, not the steak, marketing gurus advise. Maybe that’s why she wears a 
meat dress. One of the best-selling musicians of all time, she continues to set records. 
Her Fame Ball tour in 2010-11 earned $227M, thus making it the highest grossing tour 
for a first-time headline artist. She’s won five Grammys and 13 MTV awards. She’s the 
first artist to gain over a billion viral views on YouTube. 


One of the characteristics of Kala Sarpa Yoga is that it can catapult people into sudden 
fame or notoriety. Gaga toiled for years in relative obscurity, honing her performance as 
a go-go dancer in Greenwich Village dives, as a member of avant-garde electro-pop 
bands and as a songwriter for Britney Spears, the New Kids on the Block, Fergie and 
The Pussycat Dolls. 


But ever since her Saturn dasha started in 2005, she’s been on a tear. Saturn is swa- 
nakshatra, meaning it occupies its own star, so when its periods run, it serves itself. 

As a malefic in an upachaya house, especially the 6th which is the ultimate in competi- 
tiveness, she’s become increasingly successful. Sne was signed to Def Jam records in 
2006 (SA-SA), but seemed to suddenly come of out nowhere in 2009 (SA-ME) with her 
sleeper hit “Poker Face”, after which came the Fame Ball tour in 2010-11 (SA-KE) that 
established her. 


Her Moon/Venus combo forms a strong Dhana Yoga, since the Moon is bright and both 
planets are in positive houses. Furthermore, their juice is amplified by the Kala Sarpa 
Yoga. This is a gift that keeps on giving. 

Out of nine planets in her chart, three occupy Ketu nakshatras, while three occupy Rahu 
nakshatras. When a bhukti runs, it tends to give primary results as per its nakshatra 
dispositor. That means that for two-thirds of all bhukti periods, her karma is dispensing 
the promise of Rahu and Ketu, especially since the two occupy each other’s nakshatras. 


Rahu occupies the 11th house of income and social action, where malefics do well. It 
acts as a proxy for Venus with which it’s associated, Moon which aspects it, and its dis- 
positor Mars. As mentioned, the Moon/Venus combo generates money. Mars as lord of 
6th and 11th is a competitor par excellence. 


Ketu occupies the creative 5th house of performance and showmanship. It acts as a 
proxy for the Moon with which it’s associated, Jupiter which aspects it, and Venus twice 
over, once as aspecting planet and again as dispositor. Moon/Venus = money. Jupiter 
as lord of the 7th and 10th gives her both a strong relationship with her public (her “little 
monsters”) and substantial influence as a public figure that goes far beyond the artistic 
persona she’s cultivated. 


Camille Paglia may be right, but Lady Gaga is still more than just an artist, she’s an 
archetype. And in that sense, she’s every bit as big in her own time as David Bowie or 
Madonna, both of whom she’s obviously studied, were in theirs. 


Hail Gaga! 


Kanye West: the mouth that roared 
(first published 24 February 2015) 


In October 2002 Kanye West had a car accident that broke his jaw and obliged him to 
have his mouth wired shut for a few weeks. After the Grammy Awards earlier this month, 
many people are thinking it should be wired shut again. 


At the last moment, Kanye seemed to pretend it was all a joke, and left the stage without 
tearing the Grammy out of Beck’s hands. But later that evening he went on a rant, say- 
ing Beck should have shown some respect for true artistry and given his aloum-of-the- 
year award to Beyoncé. 

Respect artistry? How about respecting the democratic process wherein a multitude of 
industry people vote for who should win these awards? 

(The man must need very baggy pants to conceal the love he has for Beyoncé. Why 
doesn’t he leave other artists alone and kill Jay-Z to get what he wants?) 

Kanye West was born 8 June 1977 in Atlanta, Georgia. According to Astrotheme.com, 
whose record for birth time accuracy is admittedly spotty, it was 8:45 AM. For the mo- 
ment let’s see if that makes sense. 


Kanye West 


O08h45, 08 Jun 1977 
Atlanta, USA 


Gemini rising. A mouth that won't quit? Check. But let’s confirm a few other details... 


Lagnesh Mercury, which is also lord of the 4th, is in the 12th. Although Kanye won a 
scholarship to Chicago’s American Academy of Art, he dropped out of college to pursue 
his musical career. Lord of the 4th gone to a dusthana is a common signature for incom- 
plete formal education. 


Kanye first made his reputation as a producer, a behind-the-scenes (12th house) role 
that requires great attention to detail. With Mercury and Jupiter in association, this made 
him a perfectionist, and earned him huge respect in the industry. Sun and Jupiter are 
closely conjunct. Sun is karaka for ego, and Jupiter causes inflation, so inevitably an at- 
titude crept in. 


Rahu and Ketu are the only angular planets. As such, they are instigators of innovation, 


technological mastery and a talent for controversy. 


Kanye’s father was a Black Panther whom his mother divorced when Kanye was three. 
It’s a challenge to find a militant father in the Moon/Saturn exchange that exists between 
the 9th lord and occupant, but as we'll see later, that combination does provoke aggres- 
sive competition. Father-karaka Sun is in the 12th, suggesting an absent father. 


His mother was a university professor who took custody of him post-divorce and later 
took him to China for a year. Lord of the 4th is Mercury in the 12th (foreign residency), 
associated with Jupiter, karaka of higher education. 


They went to China in 1987. Kanye was running JU-RA. Jupiter gives results both for its 
star-lord the Moon in the 9th (Mom in academia) and itself in the 12th (foreign residency). 
Rahu gives results for the planets aspecting it (Jupiter & Saturn) and its dispositor (Mer- 
cury). Jupiter is thus a multiple driver of foreign travel since it rules the 7th (the other 
place, not here) and occupies the 12th (foreign locales). 


Based on his work for Jay-Z, Kanye was highly-respected as a producer but, frus- 
tratingly, not regarded by record labels as being a (street-)credible rapper because he 
lacked the gangsta image typical of the role. 


After a car accident in October 2002, while his mouth was wired shut, Kanye began 
work on the album that would catapult him into the winner’s circle. The accident came in 
SA-MA. Saturn is 8th lord in the 2nd house, reflecting an injury to the mouth area. Mars 
and Saturn mutually aspect each other. Saturn also gives results for lagnesh Mercury 
(name, acclaim) while Mars gives results for Ketu in the 10th (career). 


After The College Dropout was released in February 2004, Kanye became a household 
name in the hip hop universe. The album went triple platinum in the USA, garnered 10 
Grammy nominations and won Best Rap Album. 


Around this time, Kanye’s penchant for outspoken remarks came to the fore. He 
stormed out of the 2004 American Music Awards when he failed to win Best New Artist. 
In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, he criticized the White House, saying George Bush 
didn't care about black people, a remark Bush later said was one of the most disgusting 
moments of his presidency. And at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards, he snatched 
the microphone from Taylor Swift to declare that Beyoncé should have won her award 
instead. 


Saturn in the 2nd reflects “bad language”, whether that comes in the form of swearing, 
fabricating or dissing. The aspect of 6th lord Mars just takes it to a whole new level 

of aggression, seeming to reflect little social awareness of the ramifications of such 
outbursts. 


Kanye’s mother, who gave up her academic career to be his personal manager (1st and 
4th lord Mercury one and the same), died November 10, 2007, of heart failure in post- 
surgery complications. Kanye was running SA-JU. Saturn is karaka for death and, as 
occupant of the 2nd, is also a maraka planet. Jupiter is in the 12th of loss and gives re- 
sults for its star-lord Moon who, as lord of the 2nd, is another maraka planet. 


Kanye fathered a child with Kim Kardashian on June 15, 2013 and married Kardashian 
on May 24, 2014. Both events occurred during ME-VE. The dasha of lagnesh typically 
spells a watershed era for the individual. The Venus bhukti gives results for its star-lord 
Ketu, which gains dig bala in the 10th (social status, among other things), while Ketu is 
turn gives results for its sign dispositor Jupiter, lord of the 7th (marriage). 


Speaking of Venus, it’s in a state of planetary war with Mars, and it remains to be seen 
how this will play out. With graha yuddha, one or both of the planets (typically, the peo- 
ple they represent) will suffer. In fact, Venus is hammered from many points of view — the 
planetary war with swa Mars, hemmed between malefics Sun and Ketu, and aspected 
by Saturn. 


In Kanye’s chart, Venus rules the 5th while Mars rules the 11th. Since he has no older 
siblings, the Mars portion is thus dispensed with. That leaves his daughter North. Some- 
where down the road, we might expect problems, either some issue of her own, or his 
relationship with her. 

But if we think of Venus only as karaka for relationships, the problem becomes more 
general. Although Kanye espouses Christian values in much of his music, the guy carries 
a great load of hubris on his shoulders. Could this eventually challenge personal relation- 
ships to the same degree it has his social role? 


Since the 0845 birth time is unsubstantiated, it’s useful now to consider the Chan- 
dralagna, always an option anyway, even if only for corroboration. 


Wwe 


Ve os. 


1 
Me ozs 


JU 2103 3 
Su 2403 


Note the exchange between Moon and Saturn, now occurring between the 1st and the 
6th. This reflects a competitive disposition, one that could almost be characterized as 
combative. This would seem to explain his insistence on being acknowledged as master 
of his domain and, by extension, the arbiter of taste in related domains, eg, why Bey- 
oncé should have won awards instead of Beck and Taylor Swift. 


Once we shift to Chandralagna, the Mars/Venus planetary war moves to the 3rd house. 
Here’s a classic case of bhavo karako nashto, eliciting “no joy from siblings”, which in 
this case is reflected in their absence. Now that Venus is 4th lord gone 12 away, mas- 


sively hammered as noted above, it’s also an obvious indicator for loss of mother. 


The 4th house also indicates one’s supporters, constituency or fan base. Given graha 
yuddha involving the 4th lord from the Chandralagna, Kanye should consider the 

consequences of his behavior. He was withdrawn from the balance of the MTV Music 
Awards after the Taylor Swift incident. In response to the controversy, a tour with Lady 


Gaga was cancelled, and nominations for his fourth album in the subsequent Grammy 
Awards were notably tepid. 


The next nine months will be interesting. Sun bhukti runs March 2015 to January 2016. 
The Sun will give results for its star-lord Mars which, as lord of the 6th and 11th, pro- 
vokes further competition in the social arena. But Mars is in a mixed state, both swaha 
and in graha yuddha, and there lies the rub. These two hot planets can provoke further 
controversy. But as time goes by, his fans could become less forgiving. 

Let the hubris fall where it may. 


MUNDANE MATTERS 


Frozen Warriors: Napoleon & Hitler in Russia 
(first published 28 January 2014) 


On 23 June 1940, after the German army’s swift conquest of France, Hitler made his 
first and only visit to Paris. He toured the City of Light, admiring its boulevards and archi- 
tecture, and paid a visit to Napoleon’s tomb. There he vowed never to repeat the Little 
Corporal’s mistakes. Exactly one year later, having apparently forgotten his promise, he 
invaded Russia. 


There’ve been many comparisons between Hitler and Napoleon. Both stood under five 

foot nine. Both had photographic memories. Both were foreigners to the countries they 

ruled (Napoleon was Italian, Hitler was Austrian), Both planned but never launched inva- 
sions of England. Both invaded Russia within days of each other, there to suffer stagger- 
ing losses and humiliating defeat that spelled the demise of their respective empires. 

A comparison of their birth charts reveals further similarities, both in their native disposi- 
tions, and in the timing of their attacks on Russia. 


Napoleon Bonaparte was born on 15 August 1769, at 11:30 AM in Ajaccio, France. 
Birth data courtesy Astro-Databank. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are 


in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Napoleon Bonaparte 


11h30, 15 Aug 1769 104 = Me sn 


Ajaccio, France Sa os1s 


Adolf Hitler was born 20 April 1889, at 6:30 PM in Braunau, Austria. Birth data courtesy 
Astro-Databank. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zo- 
diac as per Vedic astrology.) 


Both men have Libra ascendants, with its lord Venus in a male sign and a positive 
house. Both have Sun/Mars conjunctions in fire signs and positive houses. Both have 
Saturn in the 10th house. 

The Sun/Mars conjunctions are particularly significant, because both planets are of the 
kshatriya (warrior) caste. In Napoleon’s chart, the Sun is strong in Leo, and accompa- 
nied by Mars. In Hitler’s chart, the Sun is exalted in Aries, while Mars is in its own sign 
Aries, albeit in a tight conjunction with Venus that spells graha yuddha (planetary war) 
and thus some erosion of Mars’s essential dignity. 

The power of these two warrior planets is echoed within and strengthened by their 
respective third harmonic charts. The drekkana is indicative of courage, desire and will 
to action, therefore important to athletes, fighters and competitors of every kind. 


D3 Dreshkana : Napoleon Bonaparte D3 Dreshkana : Adolf Hiter 


In Napoleon’s D3 chart, the Sun is in its own sign Leo, Mars in its own sign Aries. In 
Hitler's D3, the Sun is exalted in Aries, while Mars in Sagittarius is in exchange with 
Jupiter in Aries, thus giving it power as well. 

For warriors, we expect courage and the capacity for combat. These factors are seen 
through strong 3rd and 6th houses in the natal chart. Since both men had Libra rising, 
Jupiter becomes the lord of both their Sagittarius 3rd and Pisces 6th. 


Napoleon had Jupiter in the ascendant and thus by virtue of its lordships, marked 


his character with the courage/combat nature. Jupiter gets dig bala in the ascendant 
and occupies its own nakshatra. Rahu in the 3rd becomes a proxy for Jupiter, further 
strengthening courage. 


Hitler had Jupiter in its own sign in the 3rd, along with both Moon and Ketu. Since the 
Moon reflects essential temperament and Ketu acts like Mars, again we have courage in 
abundance. Indeed, Hitler was wounded and won the Iron Cross for bravery in WW1. 


Personality characteristics aside, Napoleon and Hitler will also stand shoulder-to-shoul- 
der in history for having had the hubris to attack Russia. Remarkably, they did so within 
mere calendar days of each other. 


The Russian Campaign 


Napoleon’s formal invasion of Russia was on 24 June 1812. His Grande Armée had 
massed on the west side of the River Niemen. That morning Napoleon rode out on his 
horse to survey the best location to cross the river. As he approached the river, his horse 
stumbled and threw Napoleon to the ground. Some of his staff exchanged looks of hor- 
ror. It was a bad omen, and if Napoleon had been a Roman Caesar, he would have im- 
mediately returned to France. 


But that night at 10 PM, he sent three companies of the 13th Light Infantry in boats to 
cross the river and secure the opposite bank. An engineering brigade raised pontoon 
bridges and the army followed the next morning. The game was on! 


| }SU 149 SaR 1335 
Meza = |Maas Mo 121 
| Ju au : 


The Russian Campaign 


22h00, 24 Jun 1812 
Kaunas, Lithuania 


The invasion chart was not promising. Although Sun and Mars are appropriately (for a 
launch of hostilities) conjunct in the 6th, they’re opposed by ascendant lord Saturn in the 
12th. Ominously, the Moon is exactly conjunct this retrograde Satum in the 12th. If ever 
there was a formula for defeat by attrition, this was it. 


At the time, Napoleon was running Jupiter dasha, Ketu bhukti, Venus antaradasa. As 
discussed above, Jupiter dasha is already a powerful driver of combat because it is swa 
nakshatra and owns both the 3rd and 6th. 


Ketu bhukti acts as proxy for its associate Venus, its aspecting planet Jupiter and its 
sign dispositor Mercury. Of these, Jupiter is strongest, and thus repeats the courage/ 


combat theme. 


Napoleon was in Venus antaradasa. Venus occupies a Rahu nakshatra, which again 
invokes the Jupiter effect, but it also acts on its own behalf. Unfortunately, ascendant 
lord Venus also owns the 8th, and therein lies the seed of Napoleon’s defeat. 


ace re ee 
& p nga he be ps etn Cee, b 
SLAY Roe DE a ae 
Feb poled be hap tom yrs ee 
medication 


Ede tonpiratare 
a 
ae Coa 


[ cal cinbet soma nipe dann stem nimm por {| A 
yo ae 
Tene 


One of the most famous graphs ever produced (courtesy Charles Joseph Minard) shows 
the size of the Grande Armée on its way to Moscow and back. Out of an original force of 
615,000, only 110,000 frostbitten and half-starved survivors stumbled back into France. 
The Russian campaign was the decisive turning-point of the Napoleonic Wars, and ulti- 

mately led to Napoleon’s defeat and exile. 


Operation Barbarossa 


Although he had vowed when he visited Napoleon’s tomb in Paris in June 1940 not to 
repeat France’s mistakes, Hitler was already making plans to attack Russia. A year later, 
he launched his invasion, just two days before the anniversary of Napoleon’s ill-fated 
Russian campaign 129 years earlier. 


Operation Barbarossa began 22 June 1941 at 03h15 with a German aerial bombard- 
ment of Russian-held cities in Poland, and a blitzkrieg of men and machines across 
the broadest land front in military history. Within six months the Wehrmacht was at the 
city limits of Leningrad, Moscow and Stalingrad. But from that winter on, it was tough 
sledding. Although the Germans killed or captured and systematically starved millions 
of Russian soldiers, the one thing the Russians had were lots of men and women. They 
recruited half a million a month, trained them in haste and hurled them at the Germans. 
The ‘superior race’ was no match for the Soviets’ superior numbers. 


Operation Barbarossa 


03n15, 22 Jun 1941 


Coincidentally enough, Operation Barbarossa was also launched under a Moon/Saturn 
conjunction. Here it occurs rising in a fixed sign Taurus, perhaps symptomatic of how 
stubbornly Hitler stuck to this wrong strategy for three long years while Russia brutally 
bled and froze his armies in their tracks. 


In Napoleon’s Russian campaign, the launch date had Sun and Mars conjunct in dual 
sign Gemini, which hinted at the wavering (dualistic) sustainability of combat operations 
(Sun/Mars). In Operation Barbarossa, Sun and Mars were both in dual signs too, but 
here Mars aspected the Sun unilaterally, which suggests the fighting spirit (Mars) was off 
the leash, doing something that actually undermined self-preservation (Sun). 


Both attacks featured an exaggerated Moon. For the French, it was a full moon, for the 
Germans a very dark moon in its exalted sign, a combination for very mixed prospects. 
The Moon in both charts was also influenced by Jupiter and Saturn. Certainly it takes 
optimism to make such a leap, and similarly it takes reality to bring an emperor down off 
his high horse. 


At the time of Barbarossa, Hitler was running Rahu dasha, Ketu bhukti, Venus an- 
taradasa. Rahu gives the results of its associates (none), aspecting planets (Moon & 
Jupiter) and sign dispositor Mercury. Of these, Jupiter in its own sign is strongest. 


Like Napoleon, Hitler’s Libra ascendant meant his Jupiter became lord of the 3rd and 
6th, houses of courage and combat. So war was natural in Rahu dasha. 


Ketu bhukti gives results of its associates (Moon & Jupiter), aspecting planets (none) 
and sign dispositor Jupiter. Of these, Jupiter in its own sign is strongest. So Ketu mostly 
does Jupiter’s job, and goes to war. 


Hitler was in Venus antaradasa. Since Venus is swa nakshatra, Venus works for itself 
alone. But its lordship of the 1st and 8th puts it in a complex role, seeking self-hood and 
trauma at the same time. Furthermore, Venus is in planetary war with Mars. 


Operation Barbarossa opened up the Eastern Front, the site of some of the largest bat- 
tles, deadliest atrocities, highest casualties, and most horrific conditions for Soviets and 
Germans alike. Estimates vary, but many place the death toll at over 5 million German 

and 10 million Russian soldiers. The Eastern Front accounted for 95% of all German ca- 


sualties from 1941 to 1944. 


CANTE OUBATIVE sts eames 6 Ogee ence oo Ranma! Que de Torre Bont am te Lomtemnas oe Ramee (4865 HOE 
co 


Although not as distinct as the Minard pictograph, the one produced by Matthew 
Humphrey (Univ. Waikato, NZ) similarly depicts the grinding down of Hitler’s armies on 
the Russian Front and, thus, the end of the Third Reich. 


Thus we are reminded of the words of the 19th century philosopher George Santayana: 
Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. 


The Yorkshire Ripper: a study in stellar forensics 
(first published 31 December 2014) 


Peter Sutcliffe, aka The Yorkshire Ripper, terrorized the north of England in and around 
the cities of Leeds and Manchester from 1975 until 1980. The case received sensational 
press coverage in its day and was both a burden and embarrassment for the British 
police services which, in the pre-computer era, had at one point dedicated over 300 offi- 
cers to the pursuit of the serial killer. 

Sutcliffe was a truck driver, married but out and about, especially on weekends when 
he liked to drive around with a rope, a hammer and a knife in search of adventure. In the 
early years prostitutes were his targets but later he became a free-range hunter, and or- 
dinary women fell to his attentions. 

During his six-year rampage of assault and murder he enjoyed significant luck in escap- 
ing detection and was interviewed by the police nine times without being singled out as 
the man they were looking for. 


Criminal data 

There were 23 incidents in total attributed to the Yorkshire Ripper, 13 of which resulted in 
murder, 10 of which were non-fatal. 

Thanks to Wikipedia for Peter Sutcliffe’s biography, plus specifics regarding his 13 
murder victims — their names, as well as the date and location of their murders. http:// 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter Sutcliffe 

Another site provided the approximate timing of all 23 assaults (fatal and non-fatal) by 
Sutcliffe. These times were based on witness or victim testimony, police speculation, or 
Sutcliffe’s own confession. http://www.execulink.com/~kbrannen/index.htm#map01 

A retrospective look at the “time signatures” of these assaults sheds light on the astro- 
logical timing of Sutcliffe’s activities. 


Peter Sutcliffe’s birth chart 


2 June 1946, 8:30 PM GMT, Bingley, England (sidereal zodiac, Lahiri ayanamsa) (Note: 
all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrol- 


ogy.) 


Su 131 |Ve 1935 
Men }Sa.n 
Raza |Mo237 


Bingley, England 


ate 


The salient features of Sutcliffe’s chart are as follows: 


Peter Sutcliffe iam 
20h30, 02 Jun 1846 a 


Chart analysis 


(1) He has Scorpio ascendant with a powerful (exalted) Ketu in the first house. Ketu 
occupies Jyeshta, a tikshna star. Ketu acts like Mars much of the time anyway but in 
this case it also happens to be proxy for its sign-lord Mars. 


(2) Ascendant lord Mars is in an aggravated state, debilitated in 9th house Cancer. Mars 
occupies Ashlesha, a krura star. 


(3) Moon is dark (weak) in 8th house Gemini, last degree (sandhi), very tightly conjunct 
Saturn, and hemmed between malefics Sun/Rahu and Mars. 


(4) Thus both significators of the manas (emotional mind), Saturn and the Moon, are 
sandhi in the last degree of Gemini and hemmed. 


(5) Yogas are few: Budhaditya (Su/Me in 7th), Kesari (Mo/Ju in mutual kendras), weak 
Neechabhanga for Mars, Parivartana with Me/Ve in 7th/8th houses, Durudhara (Mo 
flanked by weak malefics). 


(6) Conventional morality is in the trash bin. 4th lord Saturn is in the last degree of a dual 
sign in the 8th house. 9th is occupied by debilitated Mars. 9th lord Moon has gone 12 
away in the 8th, where it is sandhi in exact conjunction with Saturn. 


Highly-activated 8th house 


Sutcliffe’s 8th house is highly activated. It contains a dark Moon in exact conjunction 
with Saturn, and flanked on either side by other malefics — Sun and debilitated Rahu in 
the 7th, debilitated Mars in the 9th. 


This moon is the dispositor of lagnesh Mars. Since both are weak, this is a poor progno- 
sis for an upstanding life. The 9th house in particular is dharma, but with only occupant 
Mars and lord Moon contributing to its condition, this is a prescription for immorality. 
Sutcliffe has Parivartana Yoga between Venus and Mercury, lords of the 7th and 8th 


houses respectively. This creates a sambandha between other people in his life and 
some element of violence, whether sexual assault or murder. 


If we complete the exchange in our mind’s eye, this would place Venus with Sun and 
Rahu in the 7th, a pretty certain recipe for sexual irregularities of some kind. Venus 

is karaka for relationships, but placing it in the 7th would also simulate karako bhavo 
nashto, in which relationships with others is spoiled or, in this case, literally killed. 


KP theory 

There is a derivative of Vedic astrology called KP, an abbreviation for Krishnamurti Pad- 
dhati, meaning the Krishnamurti method. 

It uses the sidereal zodiac with the Krishnamurti ayanamsa, advancing all zodiacal posi- 
tions in the chart roughly six minutes of arc beyond those of a Lahiri ayanamsa. 

The KP system uses an unequal house system, Placidus, where houses can be more 
or less than 30 degrees, and where some signs may not appear on a house cusp, eg, 
when a 30-degree sign is fully enclosed in an unequal house of 40-degree arc, while 
other signs straddle two cusps. 

Shown below is Peter Sutcliffe’s KP chart, where the numbers within the double-lined 
outer border indicate the house cusps. 


Krishnamurti chart 


AS 0921 ‘ 


Ke 2823 
2 
Su 1837 


Me 2131 - 

Ra 2823 Mo 29:3 q 
Sa 228 
Ma 27:17 


[Tet Gems SS 


Once we shift from equal- to unequal-house systems, planets can shift houses. Be- 
cause cusps have changed, planets may now also rule different houses. For example, 
in Sutcliffe’s chart Mars shifts from 9th house (equal) to 8th house (Placidus). And it now 
owns three houses -— the 1st, the 5th and the 6th. Other lordships will have shifted as 
well. 


Planets do not change signs, however, and their aspects remain as in traditional jyotish, 
as can be more readily noted in the rashi chart. 


As regards the prediction of events, KP postulates that the effect of any house will 


become evident only when the planets having a Say in its outcome find an opportunity 


taradasa (sub-period), invoking circumstances as follows: 


(a) Occupant(s) of a house will be significator(s) for, or give results related to, that house. 


(b) Planets in the nakshatra (star) of that occupant will be even stronger significators for 
that house. 


Not all houses are occupied, so we must also examine the house lord and any planets in 
its star: 


(a) The lord of a house will be a significator for, or give results related to, that house. 
(b) Planets in the nakshatra (star) of that lord will be even stronger significators. 


This raises a typical question: Why is the occupant or the lord of a house less effective 
than a planet who occupies its nakshatra? 


For an answer, an analogy: Consider a businessman. If he has employees (people in his 
shop), they do his work. If he has no one in his shop, he alone can do the work. The 
same logic holds, whether the businessman is the owner/operator of the enterprise, or 
the landlord of the property. 


Signs of murder 


Murder is a crime against dharma. The chief dharma house is the 9th. The destruction 
of anything is 12 houses away. Thus, the 8th is anti-dharma. So during crimes of any 
kind, where dharma (right action) is violated, there must be evidence from the planets 
that the 8th house of the perpetrator is active. 


Murder is the end of things — the end of another’s life, but also a kind of self-inflicted 
suicide of the soul, because once one starts down that path, the trail grows ever darker. 
So again, where sex and violence end in death, there must be evidence that the perpe- 
trator’s 12th house is active. 


So rape and murder should occur during the periods (dasha, bhukti, antaradasa) of 
planets that signify the 8th and the 12th, ie, their occupants and lords, and planets oc- 
cupying the nakshatras of those occupants and lords. 


In Sutcliffe’s life, these planets would be: 

8th house occupant(s): 

-- Venus: since no planets occupy a VE-star, Venus must do its own work 

-- Saturn: since no planets occupy a SA-star, Satur must do its own work 

-- Moon: since both Sun and Mercury occupy a MO-star, they can assist in its work 
-- Mars: since both Rahu and Jupiter occupy a MA-star, they can assist in its work 
8th house lord: 

-- Mercury: since both Mars and Ketu occupy a ME-star, they can assist in its work 
12th house occupant(s): 

-- None 

12th house lord: 


-- Venus: since no planets occupy a VE-star, Venus must do its own work 


Aside from the visible planets, we also assess the eligibility of the moon’s nodes to act 
as significators for the 8th or 12th houses. Consider Rahu: 


-- Rahu associates with both Sun and Mercury, thus a significator for the 8th house (as 
in table above) 


-- Rahu is aspected by Jupiter, thus a significator for the 8th house (as in table above) 


-- Rahu is disposed by its sign-lord Venus, who occupies the 8th and rules the 12th, 
thus becoming a dual significator 


-- Rahu is also governed by its star-lord Mars, thus a significator for the 8th house (as in 
table above) 


And consider Ketu: 
-- Ketu is not associated with any planet 


-- Ketu is aspected by Sun and Mercury, thus a significator for the 8th house (as in table 
above) 


-- Ketu is disposed by Mars, thus a significator for the 8th house (as in table above) 


-- Ketu is also governed by its star-lord Mercury, thus a significator for the 8th house (as 
in table above) 


Dasha/bhukti of planets in exchange 


During the period of the assaults and murders confessed by Sutcliffe, he was running 
Mercury dasha. Aside from the Budhaditya Yoga of intelligence, Mercury’s significance 
in this chart rests on its Parivartana Yoga, where as 8th lord it exchanges signs with the 
7th lord Venus. 


Herein lie the seeds of violence culminating in rape and murder. Note further that Mer- 
Ccury is afflicted doubly by the Sun and debilitated Rahu, despite some relief from Jupiter, 
which perhaps explains why he was able to elude capture for a good five years. 


With the onset of Sutcliffe’s Mercury dasha, conditions were ripe for escalating violence. 
Mercury is a dual significator for his 8th house: (1) it owns the 8th and, more importantly 
(2) it’s in the nakshatra of the Moon which occupies the 8th. 


The stakes were raised once more when his 12th house was activated. This is only 
possible in two periods — that of Venus and Rahu. The 12th house has no occupants, 
therefore much depends on its lord. Venus has no planets occupying any of its naksha- 
tras, therefore only two planets can do its work: Venus itself, or Rahu which occupies its 
sign. 

ME-VE ran from April 1973 to February 1976. During this 3-year period the significators 
of 8th and 12th set the scene for criminal action. 


In reviewing his history, authorities have since speculated that Sutcliffe had likely been 
involved in assaults on prostitutes dating back as far as 1969, the year his Mercury 


dasha began. It was only after 1975, when his assaults became murders, and his vic- 
tims also began to include ordinary women, that public and police interest in his crimes 
escalated as a result of a media frenzy. 


The Yorkshire Ripper 


= 


s 


home? 


SA- ME- ME- ME- ME- - 
JU. ME KE VE SU MO 


Dasa-dhukt! sequence 


From a brief inspection of this activity we see that: 


(1) Sutcliffe began to get busy during ME-VE, the dasha/bhukti of the very two planets 
that comprised his Parivartana Yoga. 


(2) The most vicious of his periods was during ME-MO, the bhukti lord being the Moon, 
both weak and afflicted, the 9th lord fallen in the 8th. 


(3) The other aggressive period, during which he was ultimately captured, was that of 
ME-RA, wherein the bhukti lord Rahu is debilitated and afflicting the dasha lord Mercury. 


Note also that in the broad dasha sequence, Mercury, Venus and Moon are the 3rd, 
5th, and 7th period lords, whose dashas and/or bhuktis are traditionally supposed to be 
bad for the native in question. Within the Mercury dasha, this would make ME-VE and 
ME-MO particularly bad. Indeed these are the periods in which he committed the most 
attacks. 


Of the 23 assaults, 43% occurred (*) when the Moon was in a Venus nakshatra. Venus 
participates in the exchange between 7th and 8th lords, the very combination that sug- 
gests violent assaults of every kind. In the 8th house, Venus is associated with Saturn 
and a dark (malefic) Moon, and is hemmed by Sun/Rahu on one side and Mars on the 
other. 


(* Given average distribution, Sutcliffe’s attacks should have occurred in a Venus 
nakshatra only (23/9=) 2.5 times. But since 10 of the events happened with Moon in 
a Venus nakshatra, this is highly significant, chances of it being random only 0.6 in 
70,000.) 


Even post-exchange, Venus becomes combust and associated with Rahu. As 7th lord 
and karaka for relationships, it is one of the most tortured planets in Sutcliffe’s chart. 


Of the 23 events, 52% occurred (**) when the Moon was in a krura_nakshatra, a selec- 
tion of asterisms ruled by Venus, Ketu or Jupiter. Krura means cruel, fierce and severe, 
and is associated with destructive deeds. 

(** Average distribution would predict 4.2 events, but there were 12. Again, this is 
very significant, the chances of this being random only 3.4 in 10,000.) 


Sub-lord activation 

As discussed earlier, a basic principle of KP says that a planet in its period serves the 
needs of its star-lord, ie, the planet that owns the nakshatra occupied. In other words, 
the period lord will promote the themes governed by its nakshatra dispositor. 

An extension of that same principle says that such a period lord also produces results — 
good, bad or indifferent — in accordance with the sub-lord of the nakshatra in which it is 
found. So, just as every dasha is divided into nine bhuktis of unequal time-spans, so too 
is every nakshatra divided into nine subs of unequal degree-span. 

Although we could go through every point in Sutcliffe’s chart to identify each sub-lord 
and comment upon its significance, let’s concentrate on a few salient observations: 

-- his Lagna sub-lord is Venus, located in the 8th house. This creates for Sutcliffe an 
affinity for anti-dharma, eg, abuse, violence. 

-- the Moon’s sub-lord is the Moon itself, located in the 8th house. 

-- Mercury’s sub-lord is Venus, located in the 8th house. 

-- Venus’s sub-lord is the Moon, located in the 8th house. 

-- Rahu’s sub-lord is Saturn, located in the 8th house. 

Sutcliffe’s killing spree occurred during his Mercury dasha, which is strongly linked — by 
house ownership, star-lord occupation, and sub-lord occupation — with the 8th house. 


Furthermore, his three most-violent bhuktis were those of Venus, the Moon and Rahu. 
All three are linked via their respective sub-lords to the 8th house. 


Saturn return 


As noted above, Sutcliffe’s ME-VE period set the stage for violence. Onto this stage 
walked Saturn. Not just any Saturn, but Sutcliffe’s Saturn return, which occurred on July 
18, 1975 at 16N28. 

If we drill down another level of time, we see that at the time he was running ME-VE-ME 
(dasha/bhukti/antaradasa) — all three significators linked to the 8th or 12th houses. 

This Saturn return marks a pivotal place. In the rashi chart, Satum is lord of the 4th, the 
manas — the emotional mind that registers perceptions, likes and dislikes, the pursuit of 
pleasure and avoidance of pain. 

Located in the 8th house, this is destabilizing for the mind. The Moon is a secondary 
indicator for the mind. Natally, it is dark in the 8th with Saturn. Both are sandhi — unsta- 


ble in the last degree of a dual sign. 


Me tess 
Sa »2 


Peter Sutcliffe 
(Satum retum chart) 
16h28, 18 July 1875 

Bingley, England 


Ra oss 
As 


In Sutcliffe’s Saturn return, Saturn is combust within O2deg30. The Moon is in Scorpio 
conjunct an exalted Rahu within O3deg00, an indicator for mental derangement. Moon 
and Rahu are transiting a Satum nakshatra, contributing to further derangement. 


Sutcliffe’s condition had been ripe for over two years. Within two months of his Saturn 
return, he violently assaulted two women. Within six months he had killed two women. 
And now his path was struck. 


The following bhukti periods — Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu and Jupiter were all supportive of 
ongoing violence because each of them was a significator of the 8th house. 


Transits and triggers 


KP theory says that violent acts like rape and murder unfold as per a hierarchy of 
Causes: 


(1) dasha, bhukti and antaradasa periods of planets who are significators of the 8th 
and/or 12th houses. 


(2) transits of Jupiter, the Sun and the Moon through the nakshatras of planets who are 
significators of the 8th and 12th houses. 


Just as period lords will work for the lord whose nakshatra they occupy in the birth 
chart, so too will transiting planets work for the lord whose nakshatra they pass through. 
(It’s like the game of Monopoly: If you occupy my space in passing, you must pay me 
rent or penalties.) 


If we analyze the transits of Jupiter during these 23 acts of violence (13 murders, 10 
assaults), the nakshatras most frequently transited were those of Mars. Although the 
number of incidents is too low to be statistically significant, Mars is key for many reasons 
— ascendant lord, debilitated, occupant of the 8th house, and in the star of Mercury the 
occupant and lord of the 8th lord. It is therefore a powerful significator for the 8th house. 
Thus, when Jupiter passes through a Mars-star, it works on behalf of Mars. 


When we examine the Sun during these same acts of violence, the most common 


nakshatras transited were those of Sun and Rahu. The Sun is a significator of the 8th as 
noted earlier. Rahu is a significator of both the 8th and the 12th. 


Finally, as noted earlier, during an assault the most common nakshatras transited by the 
Moon were those of Venus. Note that Venus is the only planet other than Rahu which 

is a significator of both the 8th and 12th houses. Venus occupies the 8th and rules the 
12th. Therefore Venus is a very powerful karaka for murder in Sutcliffe’s chart. 


Capture, confession and compensation 


Sutcliffe was stopped by police in January 1981 (ME-RA) and arrested for having false 
license plates on his car. He had a prostitute with him, and the next day the police dis- 
covered a knife, hammer and rope he’d discarded at the scene. After two days of ques- 
tioning, he confessed to 13 murders and multiple assaults. 


At his trial, the judge rejected a plea of diminished responsibility due to mental illness. 
Sutcliffe was sentenced to 30 years without probation. While in prison, he was attacked 
several times by other inmates seeking to maim or kill him. One of these attacks cost 
him his left eye, and severely damaged his right. Subsequently, Sutcliffe was awarded 
almost £200,000 in compensation. 


This incident occurred in March 1997 when Sutcliffe was running VE-VE. Venus is the 
karaka for vision. As 12th lord, Venus specifically rules the left eye. Venus is in the 8th 
with Saturn (loss) and Moon, the karaka for the left eye. Venus in the 8th also represents 
windfall monies, which Sutcliffe received as a result of his vision loss. 


Osama bin Laden: from death to birth 
(first published 31 May 2011) 


As in birth there is the seed of death, so in death there is the seed of birth. With the 
killing of Osama bin Laden on May 2, 2011, at the hands of Navy SEALs, it became pos- 
sible to determine an ascendant for the hitherto-unknown birth chart of the world’s most 
famous terrorist. 


Bin Laden in an interview gave March 10, 1957, as his birth date. He was born in 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to a wealthy family with Royal connections and a billion-dollar real 
estate empire. Shown here is a chart for noon, which coincidentally produces a Chan- 
dralagna chart! (Note: ail cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zo- 
diac as per Vedic astrology.) 


M 
AS 0736 
3 
10 Mar 1957 6 
Ryade Saudi Arabia JUR oom 
Ra 20 7 
8 
Some Vedic astrologers have already discussed bin Laden's life and death using the 


Chandralagna chart shown here. As you’ll recall from Jyotish 101, when we don’t know 
the birth time, we rotate the chart to treat the Moon as the ascendant. 


But this is a backup plan, when we don’t know the birth time. However, what if we could 
figure out the ascendant based upon the time of bin Laden’s death? 


On May 2, 2011, approx 0130 local time, Bin Laden was killed in Abbottabad, Pakistan, 
by a team of US Navy SEALs. The death chart shown here has Capricorn rising, Sun 
and Moon waning in Aries, and a cluster of four planets in Pisces. But the Moon is key. 


@ 0133 
9 
Operation Neptune Spear 
01h30, 02 May 2011 : 
Abbottabad, Pakistan r 


The Moon is in Ketu nakshatra and Venus sub. Ketu is in Gemini, and therefore delivers 
results for its dispositor Mercury. Ketu also delivers for Mars and Saturn, both of whom 
aspect it. 

Venus is in Pisces, in a Mercury nakshatra, as are three other planets in the same 
nakshatra. This means a lot of planets working to deliver Mercury results at the time of 
bin Laden’s death. 


Bin Laden’s birth chart has Mercury and Venus in planetary war. This is a potent combo. 
Astronomically, the two planets crowd each other’s space within one degree and astro- 
logically, both were activated when he died. Therefore, they should indicate death in his 
birth chart. 


What's a death indication? Let's start with 8th and 12th house combinations. Specifi- 
cally, Mercury and Venus in 8/12 combos... 


Starting with bin Laden’s Chandralagna, Gemini, we see the Mercury-Venus graha 
yuddha (planetary war) occurs in the 9th house. Mercury is lord of 1st and 4th. Venus is 
lord of 9th and 12th. Both are in the nakshatra of Rahu in the Sth. No connection with 
the 8th. 


Osama bin Laden 
14h59, 10 Mar 1957 


Riyadh, Saudi Arabia 


We move on to Cancer rising. Here the Mercury-Venus war is in the 8th. Bingo! Mercury 
now rules 3rd and 12th houses. Both Mercury and Venus are in Rahu nakshatra. Rahu 


sits in the 4th but does proxy work for his dispositor, Venus in the 8th. Another score. So 
with this ascendant, we get Mercury and Venus generating 8th and 12th house results, 
eg, death. 


Despite the rest of the zodiac to test, Cancer already looks very good as a hypothetical 
ascendant. Ascendant lord Moon in the 12th house suggests a life in exile, which was 
bin Laden’s reality from age 22 to his death. Over these 32 years he lived in Afghanistan, 
Sudan (where his Saudi citizenship was revoked), Bosnia and Pakistan. 


Within Cancer, we have 2.5 nakshatras, one of which is Ashlesha, associated with im- 
mense ambition, cunning and manipulation, sedition and secrecy. 


In 1967, bin Laden’s father died in a plane crash. Bin Laden was running Rahu-Venus. 
Rahu gives results of sign dispositor Venus in the 8th, and also of its nakshatra disposi- 
tor Jupiter, lord of 9th. Bhukti lord Venus in the 8th is 12th from the 9th, ie, loss of father. 


During the latter part of his Jupiter dasha, bin Laden got educated and manied four 
wives. Jupiter is in Sun nakshatra, and Sun owns the 2nd, governing education and 
family. 

Upon the outset of his Saturn dasha, age 31, bin Laden created al Qaeda. Natal Saturn 
in the 5th is the deep dark mind of an ideologue. Satum rules the 7th house of outright 
war, and the 8th house of death. 


When a dasha runs, its lord delivers results for its nakshatra dispositor, Thus Satum 
during its dasha did work for its star lord Mercury, who is in the 8th and owns the 12th. 


Thus, Saturn can deliver violence and death. 


In 1988, bin Laden’s eldest brother died in a plane crash. Bin Laden was running Sat- 
urm-Saturn, delivering double results for Mercury, lord of the 3rd (siblings) in the 8th. 


Every bhukti lord to follow had some connection with the 8th or 12th houses. Through- 
out Saturn dasha, bin Laden increased the scope of his activities — helping the mu- 
jahideen drive the Soviets from Afghanistan, executing hotel attacks in Aden and Luxor, 
US embassy attacks in Africa, the attack on the destroyer USS Cole, the 9/11 attack, 
and subsequent bombings in Bali, Madrid and London. 


During Saturn dasha, Bin Laden managed to dodge an attack of cruise missiles 

on his base camp, a drone missile in his vehicle, and a SEALs assault in Tora Bora, 
Afghanistan. His very luck in evading capture or death must have convinced both him 
and his followers that Allah really was on his side. 

Then Mercury dasha kicked in. Remember, this Mercury is a virulent planet. It owns the 
12th house and is locked in graha yuddha with Venus in the 8th. 

During Barack Obama’s election campaign, he vowed that under his administration 

the USA would capture or kill bin Laden. Criminal charges from around the world had 
already been laid against bin Laden during his Saturn dasha. But under Obama's man- 
date, the CIA’s special activities division stepped up their search. 


The SEALs raid on May 2, 2011, came during bin Laden’s Mercury dasha, Venus 


bhukti, and Venus antaradasa. Both planets carry the weight of 8th and 12th house as- 
sociations. In addition, Venus is also the bhadaka killer) planet for a Cancer ascendant. 


Transits that day (see Chart 2) further propelled bin Laden’s fate toward death. Four 
planets in Pisces (Mercury star) gave results of bin Laden’s Mercury, his occupant of 8th 
and owner of 12th. Sun was in Aries (Venus star), giving results of bin Laden’s Venus, his 
bhadaka in the 8th house. 


To recap, we started by looking at the Moon’s nakshatra and sub at the time of bin 
Laden’s death, and worked backwards to construct a birth chart wherein Mercury and 
Venus played the role of killers in their conjoined periods. 


Admittedly, this is hindsight, but that’s no less a reason to learn from it. 


Bombs in Boston and combust Mars 
(first published 15 April 2013) 


Bombs went off today at the finishing line of the annual Boston Marathon — at 2:50 PM 
EDT, 15 April 2013. As of this writing, two are dead and 23 injured. 


New York and Washington have increased security measures. Organizers of the London 
Marathon are in close contact with Boston authorities, because their own marathon is 
scheduled to be run on Sunday. The heat is now on investigators to find those responsi- 
ble. 


Can astrology provide clues? For this purpose, let’s closely examine the event chart. 
(Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic 
astrology.) 


Su o1ss 
Maaz24 
Ve 06:32 
Ke 2359 


Boston Marathon bombing 


14h50, 15 Apr 2013 


In this chart, ascendant lord Sun and Mars are combust in the 9th house. These 
already-hot planets are further amplified in Aries where they’re respectively exalted/own- 
ers. They’re joined in the 9th by Ketu, also considered a hot planet because of its affinity 
with Mars. 


Three inflammatory planets in the 9th house spell religious fanaticism and social disorder 
through holy war. 


Sun, Mars and Ketu make a victim of Venus in the 9th, the object of their direct and 
collateral damage. As lord of the 3rd, Venus represents athletes and their neighbors. As 
10th lord, Venus is both society and its governance. 


All four planets are in Aries ruled by owner/dispositor Mars. Sun, Mars and Venus are all 
in Ketu nakshatra. Thus, there is a powerful inter-weaving of Mars/Ketu themes in the 
ninth — fanaticism and jihad. 


Transiting Moon, the barometer of the day, is in Mars nakshatra and Ketu sub. The 
Mars/Ketu combination is already volatile, and the Sun’s presence fuels it further. Even 
the ascendant is in Ketu star. 


Following are several clues to the identity of those responsible. (As is typical in Vedic 


astrology, | write this boldly as if it were truth, when in fact | am simply noting relevant 
points in line with astrological theory.) 


The ascendant lord Sun in the Aries 9th represents the perpetrator(s). This is likely a 
mature man (Sun), probably assisted by a younger man (Mars). The notion of two collab- 
orators is reinforced by Moon in Gemini (dual sign) and Moon’s dispositor in Pisces (dual 
sign). 

One or both of the perpetrators will be a university student, possibly in an Engineering 
(Sun conjunct Mars in 9th) or physics (Sun opposite Saturn in 3rd) program. They have 
likely been influenced by a zealot (Ketu in Aries 9th) who lives elsewhere than Boston. 


They will be found living in close proximity to some garage, machine shop, factory or 
place where mechanical work is done or machinery is kept. The colors red or burnt or- 
ange will be visible on their persons, or their vehicle, or within their immediate surround- 
ings, eg, door, wall, curtains, carpet, etc. 


Aside from using traditional astrology as above, we can also draw information via other 
techniques. For instance, a local space chart maps 360 degrees of horizon surrounding 
an event. In this system, the positions of the various planets as seen from this location 
are projected onto the horizon using the coordinates of azimuth and altitude. This gives 
us a sort of “flat earth” perspective. 

Converting the Boston bombing chart to a local space map gives us the relative posi- 


tions of the planets as seen from Boston, radiating out around the world, conceptually 
identifying zones of cause and effect. 


Note the two tightly-grouped red lines emanating NE and SW from Boston. These are 
Sun and Mars tightly combust at the time of the twin explosions. Although it may later 
prove relevant, let’s ignore for now the SW track of these two planets down the Eastern 
seaboard, exiting the USA via the Florida panhandle. 

Instead, see the NE track that arcs over the Atlantic Ocean to England, crosses Eastern 


Europe and Turkey, and passes through Syria, Iraq, Iran, Kuwait and the Gulf States 
of the eastern Arabian Peninsula. These are the likely origins of the Boston Marathon 


bombers. 


Admittedly, the local space projection of Sun/Mars delineates a broad swath, but it also 
lights up some decidedly hot zones. This is all the more compelling when you follow its 
continued track around the world and note that the vast majority of it projects across un- 
populated oceans. 


Will the perpetrators be caught? Combustion never ends well. Total combustion of Mars 
occurs Wednesday night (April 17) at 8:20 PM EDT, at which time there may be some 
sort of break in the case. The Moon enters Cancer (12th house of the event chart) just 
three hours later at 11:23 PM, at which time an arrest may be made. 


The Tsarnaev brothers and their malefics 
(first published 16 May 2013) 


Is there anything more problematic for an astrologer than a client or famous person with- 
out a birth time? 


The Tsarnaev brothers, perpetrators of the April 15th Boston Marathon bombings that 
killed three and injured 264 others, provide an ideal opportunity to analyze charts from 
the viewpoint of Chandralagna, a simple concept from Vedic astrology. 


Chandralagna is a composite Sanskrit term — Chandra meaning Moon, and lagna 
meaning tie-down point (between heaven and earth), aka the ascendant. So Chan- 
dralagna means “viewing the Moon as the ascendant.” 


If we lack a birth time to calculate the ascendant, this is the next best thing. The Moon 
is the chart’s fastest-moving celestial body, therefore its next most potent individuating 
factor. 


AstroDataBank and AstroTheme provided birth data for the two brothers: Tamerlan, 
21 October 1986, time unknown, Grozny, Chechnya; Dzhokar, 22 July 1993, time un- 
known, Grozny, Chechnya. 


Without a birth time, many western astrologers typically calculate a chart for noon. This 
usefully captures the mean positions of the planets that day, albeit roughly for the Moon, 
which moves 12+ degrees in a day. 


Other western astrologers calculate the chart for sunrise, or rotate the noon chart to 
place the Sun at the ascendant, either way creating a symbolic “sunrise” chart. 


However, Vedic astrology considers the faster-moving Moon to be a stronger individuat- 
ing factor than the Sun. Therefore, we rotate the noon chart to place the Moon in the first 
house, thus giving us a Chandralagna chart. 


Before we examine these two brothers, what do we expect to find in the charts of anar- 
chists, assassins, bombers, fihadi, murderers? 


Round up the usual suspects — the malefics — in the form of Mars for violence, Saturn 
for death and anti-social behaviour, Rahu for aberrant behaviour, and the Sun for cru- 
elty. (Note: Uranus, Neptune and Pluto aren’t used in Vedic astrology, so traditional sign 
rulership applies.) 


(Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic 
astrology.) 


AS i745 
Mo vas 


In Tamerlan’s chart, at moon-rise the Moon is 18 degrees Taurus. No matter what the 
actual birth time, the Moon remains in Taurus, because in 12 hours it can only move six 
degrees in either direction. So Chandralagna is definitely Taurus. 


Now study the disposition of planets relative to the Moon. Saturn is directly opposite, 
almost to the degree. (Note: in Vedic astrology, two planets need only be in opposite 
signs, regardless of degree or orb, to mutually aspect each other.) 


Saturn in Scorpio versus Mars in Capricorn are in Parivartana Yoga (mutual reception). 
This means we hold the option to make these planets exchange signs in our mind’s eye, 
thus placing Mars opposite the Moon. 


Now both prime malefics — Saturn and Mars — influence the Moon, fulfilling our astrolog- 
ical expectations for a perpetrator of violence. 


Treating Taurus as Chandralagna, ascendant ruler Venus goes to Libra in the 6th house. 
Venus is doubly strong — retrograde and in its own sign. Strong planets in the 6th house 
are associated with martial arts (Tamerlan was a boxer), police and military activities (he 
tried to join resistance fighters in Chechnya), and combative behavior. 


Dzhokar Tsamaev 
22 July 1993 
Groznyi, Russia. | AS 1239 
Mo 1239 


Ma 230 


In Dzhokar’s chart, at moon-rise his Moon is 13 degrees Leo. Again, no matter what the 
birth time, the Moon remains in sign, so Chandralagna is definitely Leo. 


The influence of Mars and Saturn is obvious. Mars is in Leo. (No matter the orb, two 


planets in the same sign influence each other like two people in the same room.) Simi- 
larly, Saturn opposes the Moon in mutual aspect. 


Here, we have in addition the nodes in the angles. Rahu acts likes Saturn, Ketu like 
Mars. Rahu is exalted in Scorpio, Ketu debilitated in Taurus, thus contributing to their vir- 
ulence and instability. 


Treating Leo as Chandralagna, ascendant lord Sun goes to Cancer in the 12th house, 
implying sacrifice, self-undoing, suicide and incarceration. 


These charts show that adopting the Chandralagna perspective immediately sheds light 
on the character and destiny of these two brothers. 


When analyzing a chart whose birth time is known, Vedic astrologers naturally devote 
most of their attention to planets in houses defined vis-a-vis the true ascendant. But 
many also take a second step, rotating the chart to make the Moon the ascendant, ana- 
lyzing the chart a second time. 


This serves a dual purpose: to corroborate and reinforce themes identified earlier, or to 
resolve any contradictions or uncertainties that arose. 


Britain on the butcher’s block 
(first published 29 May 2013) 


No more hiding down the block when a bomb goes off. Now it’s up close and personal, 
with blood on their hands. And when the dirty work is done, the perpetrators explain 
themselves to witnesses. 


British soldier Lee Rigby was murdered last week, Wednesday May 22, 2013, in the 
Woolwich district of London. According to news reports, the first 911 call came in at 
2:20 PM. The attack itself would have occurred at least one or two minutes earlier. 


While returning to his nearby barracks, Rigby was run down by a car. Witnesses first 
thought it was an accident. But then two attackers got out of their car and began hack- 
ing at Rigby. One early witness thought they’d gone to help the victim, until he saw their 
cleavers. By now, someone would be calling 911, but at least a minute would have 
passed. 


Therefore, for this event chart, l’ve chosen to use 2:19pm, although it could be even 


earlier. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per 
Vedic astrology.) 


JU 2205 
Lee Rigby murder 


14h19, 22 May 2013 Ve aa 
Wootwich, England 


The ascendant, its lord and the Moon represent the attackers. The 7th house and its 
lord represent the victim. 


The last degree of Leo rises. The Sun, considered a krura (cruel) planet of the kshatriya 
(warrior) caste has dig bala (directional strength) in the 10th house. The ascendant is in a 
nakshatra of the Sun. Even the Sun is in its own nakshatra, further fanning this flame. 


Mars is a warrior planet in its own sign. Ketu also acts like Mars in general, but more 
especially when associated with Mars, and taking strength in Aries. Together in the 9th 
they reflect, for the attackers, inflammatory philosophies like jihad, thus a signature for 
fanaticism and zealotry, especially with Saturn at the other end of the nodal axis. 


Mars, the karaka (significator) of weapons mutually aspects exalted Saturn, the karaka 
of death. Mars rules the 4th house and their vehicle, which was used first as a weapon. 


Mars also rules cutting instruments, like knives and cleavers, with which they attacked 
the victim. Mars mutually aspects the Moon, ruling the 12th house of hospitalization, im- 
prisonment and death. 


If we look at the chart from the Chandralagna, treating the Moon as if it were the ascen- 
dant, we get Moon, Mars and Satur all aligned with the crazy-making Rahu/Ketu axis. 
A double-strength (exalted and retrograde) Saturn occupies the first house, opposing 
strong Mars and Ketu in the 7th. 


From Chandralagna the 11th lord Sun, reflecting desired goals, goes to the 8th where 
it joins the three trik lords — 6th lord Jupiter (combat), 8th lord Venus (trauma) and 12th 
lord Mercury (death). The attackers’ intention was clearly to wreak violence. 


This all occurred during a two-week period of Kala Sarpa, which is a yoga (planetary 
combination) wherein the Rahu/Ketu axis identifies a line, and all planets lie on either one 
side of that line or the other. 


Different texts offer different definitions of Kala Sarpa. A strict definition requires that 
Rahu and Ketu be alone in the signs they occupy, while the seven visible planets are dis- 
tributed among the signs between. 


A more liberal definition allows other planets in the same sign as Rahu or Ketu, but none 
must disperse across the line of opposing degrees laid down by the Rahu/Ketu axis. 
This event chart is an example of that. 


The current Kala Sarpa pattern has been in effect since May 12, when Mars crossed the 
degree of Ketu and all planets went to one side of the Rahu/Ketu axis. This continues 
intermittently now for roughly four months, until September 18th, when Venus will over- 
take Rahu’s degree position and end up on the other side of the Rahu/Ketu line. 


During this period, Kala Sarpa will be like an electrical circuit. When the Moon is on the 
opposite side of the Rahu/Ketu line from the other planets, two weeks at a time, the 
switch is off. But when the Moon crosses Ketu to join the other planets on the same side 
of the nodal axis, the switch turns on. Kala Sarpa is alive! 


This could spell a violent season. Although it didn’t meet the definition of a Kala Sarpa 
Yoga, the Boston Marathon bombing also had Mars and Saturn sitting in strength at op- 
posite ends of the nodal axis, giving these four malefics a rare concentration of power. 


Although Mars has now left Aries, the presence of Satum on the nodal axis leaves its 
stamp on the intermittent Kala Sarpa Yogas that appear over the next four months. We 
might reasonably expect, however much we’d rather not, that other such incidents will 
bloody the front pages of the media. 


Terrorism’s face is changing. A Canadian think tank called The Mackenzie Institute has 
long claimed that, because of greatly-heightened security in America, Europe and else- 
where, we'll probably never again see an act of terrorism on the scale of 9/11’s Twin 
Towers. Rather, the Mackenzie Institute expects jihadi world-wide to engage in small- 
scale acts of opportunity terrorism, the fundamentalist equivalent of Think globally, act 


locally. 


It’s awful to think that your next trip to the movies could be a real-life horror film, but let’s 
face it, for someone of the mind to use a weapon or two, the daily opportunities are too 
numerous to count, too horrific to dwell on. 


Small successes like Boston and Woolwich inspire zealots everywhere. They don’t need 
to bypass security and hijack a plane. All they need is a human target and a weapon and 
a few witnesses to record it for the evening news, and it’s out there for the world to see. 


Last month in Boston, it was America’s tragedy. Last week in London, it was Britain’s. 
Who's next...? As one of the Woolwich attackers said, “We will never leave you alone.” 


So maybe we don’t want to go to the movies this summer. Maybe we should just curl up 
with a good book. Before it comes to a theater near you... 


Edward Snowden: a deer hunted out of season 
(first published 30 June 2013) 


Like whistle-blowers Julian Assange and Bradley Manning before him, Edward Snowden 
by proxy wielded a pen against the sword of the current US Administration on June 6, 
2013. 

That day his leaked story, as scooped by Glenn Greenwald, appeared in both The 
Guardian and The Washington Post. In it, Snowden revealed the breadth and depth of 
systemic surveillance by the National Security Agency (NSA) through programs such as 
PRISM that routinely spied on Google, Microsoft and Yahoo user activity — world-wide. 
The following week, US federal prosecutors charged Edward Snowden with two counts 
under the Espionage Act: disclosing national defence information and sharing classified 
intelligence.We show and tell in grade school, Edward, but when we work for the NSA 
we operate under the cone of silence. Snowden would have signed an agreement to 
that effect, but obviously he had a change of conscience. 

Edward Snowden was born June 21, 1983, at 4:42 AM in Elizabeth City, NC. This data 
was first made public by Eric Francis of PlanetWaves, courtesy of North Carolina’s birth 
registry. (Note: all cuspal and planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as 
per Vedic astrology.) 


When we look at Snowden’s chart, three distinct planetary complexes are immediately 


evident: 
Me 16a < 


AS 1337 


Edward Snowden 


04h42, 21 Jun 1983 
Elizabeth City, NC, USA 
7 JUR o931 9 
see (ced LEBEN to 
10 1947 Ke ono 
Mo isaz 


First, the Kendras are occupied only by two benefics — a strong Mercury with dig bala in 
the 1st, and retrograde Jupiter in the 7th. They mutually aspect each other, and are not 
disturbed by the aspect of any other planet, let alone a malefic. 


This joins combines intelligence and judgment, Mercury being logical and clever, Jupiter 
possessing knowledge and wanting to share. There’s no doubt that Snowden is a very 
bright 30-year-old. 


Secondly, the two kshatriya planets —- Sun and Mars — sit on the nodal axis that runs 


through the 2nd and 8th houses. It’s an all-malefic party in these two houses, with no 
benefics invited. Sun and Mars are warriors. Rahu amplifies the fire and the drumbeat. 


Since the 2nd rules knowledge and speech, this malefic cluster reflects Snowden’s 
understanding of science and technology, but also his willingness to be the bearer of 
bad news. Malefics in the 2nd can mean “bad speech.” Like someone who swears, lies, 
or tells inconvenient truths. 


Thirdly, there is a Parivartana (exchange) Yoga between the 3rd and 6th houses. It 
involves lagnesh Venus and the Moon, the two planets that represent Snowden himself. 
Both planets are influenced by an exalted Saturn, which casts it in a Spartan light. 


The exchange between the 3rd and 6th lords invokes themes around their upachaya 
nature, for struggle and success. The 3rd is a kama house, expressing a desire to do 
something, to summon courage and demonstrate prowess. The 6th is associated with 
service and employment but also the competitive spirit that is necessary to succeed in 
whatever kshetra is required — athletic field, courtroom or battlefield. 


Snowden is running Saturn dasha, Rahu bhukti. When the period of a planet runs, it 
of course plays out its own significations, but primarily it does work for its star lord, the 
planet in whose nakshatra it is found. 


Saturn sits in Chitra, a Mars nakshatra, so it will serve the purposes of a warrior-like 
Mars in the 2nd house, speaking harsh truths. Because Mars rules both the 7th and the 
12th, Snowden was willing to step out of his comfort zone and cross to the other side 
(7th), apparently even to accept the consequences of imprisonment or exile (12th). 


Saturn plays out its own interests by invoking legal action and debate (occupying the 

6th) while simultaneously following his own dharma (ruling the 9th) even at the cost of 
subverting the existing social order as epitomized by the US administration (ruling the 
10th). 


A node acts in a different way. Rather than look to its nakshatra dispositor for direction 
as a visible planet does, the node will first act as a proxy for any planet with which it is 
associated by sign, then for any planet that aspects it, and finally for its rashi dispositor. 
Thus, the action of the nodes can be multi-faceted, complex and potentially contradic- 
tory. 

Rahu is associated with both Mars and Sun. So in its period it will serve the purpose of 
Mars, as outlined a few paragraphs above, and that of the Sun. In the case of the latter, 
where the Sun occupies the 2nd and rules the 4th, we can construe that Snowden 
speaks (2nd) for the people (4th). 

Rahu is aspected by no planet, but is disposited by its sign-lord Mercury. Mercury occu- 
pies the 1st while ruling the 2nd and the 5th. The notion of authorship comes to mind, 
so it would be no stretch of the imagination to expect something more than a newspa- 
per article from all of this. 


This very idea of “speaking out against the government” almost certainly started a year 


ago, during Snowden’s Mars bhukti, which ran from April 1, 2012, to May 11, 2013. 
Because Mars sits within its own nakshatra Mrigashirsha, when its period ran it would 
have acted doubly on its own account, the only planet in his chart with the authority to 
do so. 


The current transits are also very provocative. Snowden experiences his Saturn return 
and sade sati at the same time, which in turn echoes the influence of natal Saturn on 
lagnesh Venus and his Moon. Saturn is transiting Swati, a Rahu nakshatra, which in- 
vokes the Sun/Mars combo with which natal Rahu is associated. 


Jupiter transits Mrigashirsha, a Mars nakshatra, again arousing the warrior’s battle-cry. 
Just two days after the story broke in The Guardian and The Washington Post, both 
transiting Sun and the new Moon entered Mrigashirsha as well, and Snowden’s whistle- 
blowing reverberated around the world via editorial comment and public outrage. 


With three primary transit triggers (Jupiter = yearly, Sun = monthly, Moon = daily) all ina 
Mars nakshatra, the full import of Snowden’s Mars placement came out in spades — his 
diatribe to arouse public discourse (2nd), his association with foreign powers (7th) and 
his flight into exile (12th). 


What’s next on Snowden’s agenda? For the duration of Rahu bhukti (May 2013 — March 
2016), we can probably expect continued exile. Rahu delivers the goods for 12th lord 
Mars, but their conjunction in mutable Gemini implies a man on the move rather than 
one in prison. Mrigashirsha itself is associated with the flight of a hunted deer, its moves 
and journeys along roads and paths in search of safety, always looking over its shoulder. 


The “Charlie Hebdo” terror attacks 
(first published 16 January 2015) 


The terrorist attacks in Paris plunged France, as well as the western world, into a state of 
shock, jitters and defiance. From the opening salvos of this strike, security analysts have 
now begrudgingly acknowledged that this terrorist cell, however small, acted with the 
coordinated precision of a trained tactical unit. 


It began at 11:30 AM Paris time on Wednesday, January 7, 2015. (Note: all cuspal and 
planetary chart positions are in the sidereal zodiac as per Vedic astrology.) 


At that time, two gunmen armed with pistols and AK-47 automatic rifles gained entrance 
into the editorial offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. There they shot and 
killed the editor, the magazine’s principal cartoonists and several support staff, leaving 
12 victims in their wake. 


Mo 747 
JUR 2709 


Charfie Hebdo attack 
11h30, 07 Jan 2015 
Paris, France 


The chart for the attack reveals only two planets angular: Mars rising in Aquarius, and 
Saturn in the 10th house Scorpio. These two malefic planets are in exchange, or mutual 
reception, wherein each occupies the sign of the other. They are thus strengthened, 
since post-exchange they symbolically assume positions of power in their respective 
signs of ownership. 


Mars is the planet of brothers, weapons, combatants and war. Saturn is the planet of 
discipline, organization and destruction. Acting in concert, they reflect a disciplined bat- 
tle plan. 


The attackers were identified several hours later as brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi. 
Their parents had been immigrants from Algeria but the two brothers had been born and 
raised in Paris, speaking perfect French. 


Mars occupies Dhanishta, one of its own nakshatras, and is just a few degrees away 
from its yoga tara (primary star) Beta Aquarii at 29CP32. One of the primary themes of 
Dhanishta is the stranger-in-a-strange-land syndrome, wherein the individual may feel 
like an immigrant even if they were born in that country. 


Saturn occupies Anuradha, one of its own nakshatras, and is barely a degree away 
from its yoga tara, Delta Scorpii, at O8SC42. Some of the primary themes of Anuradha 
are: 


* Shows great determination, no-nonsense willpower, and total focus on attainment of 
goals, but breaks out in wrath if goals aren’t attained. 


* Pursues success above all else, willing to sacrifice oneself and others to get the job 
done. May adopt a last-person-standing attitude, like a caricature of an action figure, 
determined to have the last word. 


* Prepared to lose battles, but determined to eventually return in triumph, ultimately 
clinging to one’s reputation by saying “I’ll be back.” 


In this chart, the 1st house represents the attackers, the 7th house their targets. Note 
that Mars stands alone and unafflicted in the 1st house while Saturn the lord of the as- 
cendant occupies the 10th house supported by the aspect of a powerful Jupiter from 
the 6th. Both Mars and Saturn, like weapons in the hands of the attackers, aspect the 
7th. 


The 6th represents combat and destruction of opponents because it is the 12th house 
from the 7th. Moon is in its own sign, Jupiter exalted. With strong benefics in the 6th, 
this might ensure dramatic initial success which is not sustainable. For ultimate victory, a 
general would rather have strong malefics in the 6th house of the attack chart. 


Moon and Jupiter together constitute a potent combination for jihad. Moon represents 
the emotional fervor, while Jupiter represents the prophet, the religion or the principle of 
the matter. With the Moon there, the 6th house represents the kshetra, in this case the 
field of battle. 


The Moon in the 6th occupies the nakshatra of Mercury. Therefore, the mood of the 
moment was in service of Mercury, which occupies the 12th and owns the 8th. The 
dusthanas are typically activated during violent crime. The 6th is the undoing of the vic- 
tim (12th away from the 7th), the 8th is the general undoing of dharma (12th away from 
the 9th), and the 12th is ultimately the undoing of the Self. 


In an 11th-hour statement to the media one of the brothers, Cherif Kouachi, claimed 
he’d been recruited by Anwar Awlaki and assigned by Al-Qaeda’s Yemeni branch 

to avenge the Prophet Mohammed for cartoons published by the magazine Charlie 
Hebdo. Toward the end of the 54-hour terror siege, the terrorist organization AQAP (Al- 
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula) claimed joint responsibility for the carnage. 


Although local space maps are a facet of western astrology, it’s sometimes interesting 
to follow their leads to identify lines of influence. Taking the local event chart as a starting 
point, we see that Mars is located in the East-South-East of the locale. Following that 
line, we see it leaves Europe, crosses the Mediterranean, and runs down the Red Sea 
and through Aden, the major port of Yemen and former bastion of the British colonial 
empire in the Gulf. 


When we examine the timeline of the several events that transpired during the 54 hours 
of this terror campaign, we see correlations with the principles of Krishnamurti Paddhati. 
One of the major tenets of the KP system says that events will correspond to the nature 
of planets ruling the star (nakshatra) through which the Moon is transiting. 


Starting from the initial attack, let’s cluster events according to the star the Moon was 
transiting. 

* January 7th, 11:30 AM, gunmen attack Charlie Hebdo 

* January 8th, 4:00 AM, police name suspects Cherif and Said Kouachi 

* January 8th, 7:00 AM, Amedy Coulibaly kills a female police officer 


* January 8th, 10:15 AM, the Kouachi brothers hold up a service station, rekindling a 
more intense police pursuit 


During those four events, the transiting Moon was in a Mercury nakshatra 
(16CN40-30CNO00). In the initial event chart, Mercury occupies the 12th and rules the 
8th, thus promoting violent crime and effectively “getting lost”, ie, disappearing and elud- 
ing authority. 

For the next 24 hours, up to 90,000 police and military personnel were engaged in 
hunting the fugitives, a cat-and-mouse drama that gripped the attention of France, if not 
the world. The next key events: 


* January 9th, late moming, the police located and surrounded the Kouachi brothers 


who had holed up with a hostage in an industrial area near Charles de Gaulle airport. 


* January 9th, 12:30 PM, Amedy Coulibaly killed four people and took multiple hostages 
in a kosher supermarket, demanding the police allow the Kouachi brothers to escape. 


In this phase, transiting Moon was in a Ketu nakshatra (OOLEOO-13LE20). Referring back 
to the initial event chart, Ketu delivers results on behalf of Jupiter which aspects and dis- 
posits it. Jupiter here indicates the holy warrior, his moral stance and philosophy. During 
this phase both Cherif Kouachi and Amedy Coulibaly spoke to the media and tried to 
justify their actions in the name of Islam. 


For the next few hours there was a standoff between the police surrounding the Kouachi 
brothers with a lone hostage in an industrial site, and Coulibaly with multiple hostages at 
the supermarket. Then in short order it came to an end: 


* January 9th, 4:55 PM, the Kouachi brothers broke out of their hiding place, guns 
blazing like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, to die like warriors (and martyrs as 
was their declared intention) in a hail of police bullets. Their sole hostage had been re- 
leased unharmed. 


* January 9th, 5:18 PM, in similar fashion Coulibaly emerged from the supermarket 
firing his weapon and was immediately cut down by police gunfire. Dozens of remaining 
hostages fled the supermarket. 


In this phase, the transiting Moon was in a Venus nakshatra (13LE20-26LE40). Again 
referring back to the initial event chart, Venus occupies the 12th while ruling the 4th and 
9th. Whereas the 4th and 9th have in common the themes of ethics and moral principle, 
the 12th is clearly the end of things... for now. 


Following the Charlie Hebdo attack, birth data for the Kouachi brothers quickly ap- 
peared on the AstroDataBank pages of Astro.com. Although the birth dates for both 
Amedy Coulibaly and his partner Hayat Boumeddiene (now the subject of an interna- 
tional manhunt) are also available through police records, for the moment the Kouachi 
brothers are the only two perpetrators for whom we have birth times. 

Said Kouachi was born September 7, 1980, at 1:40 AM in Paris. He has lagnesh Mer- 
cury exalted with Saturn in the 4th, these sole angular planets forming a Raja Yoga. Sun 
is strong in the 3rd, indicating courage. The Moon is in a mixed state, being in its own 
sign but very dark at the tail end of its waning phase. 


Said Kouachi 
01h40, 07 Sep 1980 


Paris, France 


If we were to speculate about the mental state of a martyr, we’d do well to examine 
the manas, the emotional mind. We're on the lookout for signs of weakness in the 4th 
house, its lord and the Moon, especially under influence by Saturn or Rahu, both of 
which are agents of derangement. 


In Said’s chart, the 4th is occupied by Saturn (one demerit point). The 4th lord Mercury 
is exalted (one credit) but conjunct Saturn (another demerit). The karaka for the manas is 
the Moon. It’s in its own sign (one credit), but extremely dark (one demerit) and conjunct 
Rahu (one demerit). 


Overall, the prognosis is somewhat troubling. Add to that the fact that Saturn powerfully 
influences both the ascendant and its lord Mercury. Plus which, the Sun/Jupiter combo 
reflects something of the zealot. 


Said was running Venus dasha. Venus gives the results of its nakshatra lord Saturn, 
which occupies the 4th and rules the 8th and 9th. Venus also does its own work, as 
occupant of the 2nd, lord of the 5th and 12th. Recall earlier that criminal acts of violence 
are usually triggered by planetary periods that invoke the dusthanas, especially the 8th 
and 12th. Venus dasha thus invoked both. 


He was running Ketu bhukti. Ketu gives the results of planets with which it is associated 
(none), which aspect it (Moon, Mars, Venus), and its dispositor (Saturn). Moon is occu- 
pant and lord of the 2nd. Mars occupies the 5th, rules the 6th and 11th. Venus is oc- 
cupant of the 2nd, lord of 5th and 12th. Saturn occupies the 4th, rules the 8th and 9th. 
Thus here too, Ketu bhukti pulls in the effects of dusthanas, the 8th and 12th. 

Younger brother Cherif was born November 29, 1982, at 10:20 PM in Paris. He has only 
two planets angular — an almost-full Moon in Aries, and an exalted Saturn, which to- 
gether form a Raja Yoga. 


Cherif Kouachi 
22h20, 29 Nov 1982 


Paris, France 


lf we were to perform a similar litmus test on his manas, it is moderately troubling. The 
Ath is occupied by a powerful Saturn (one demerit). The lord of the 4th, Venus, is in plan- 
etary war with Mercury (another demerit). Although full (one credit), the karaka Moon is 
aspected by that powerful Saturn (another demerit). 


Cherif was running Rahu dasha. Rahu gives the results of planets with which it is as- 
sociated (none), which aspect it (Mars), and its dispositor (Mercury). Mars occupies the 
6th, rules the 5th and 10th. Mercury occupies the 5th, rules the 3rd and 12th. Here, two 
dusthanas of 6th and 12th are invoked. 


Cherif was running Mercury bhukti. Mercury is swa nakshatra, occupying its own star, 
and therefore delivers its significations twice over. Since Mercury occupies the 5th and 
rules the 3rd and 12th, we get a strong 12th-house theme in these conjoined periods of 
Rahu and Mercury. 


If we look for commonalities between these two brothers, we see that both had Saturn 
in the 4th house (a factor in a disturbed manas). From this position Saturn aspects both 
the ascendant and the ascendant lord in each case. Although one would hesitate to 
call this a death-wish, it does suggest a cavalier attitude toward brutality, fatality and 
mortality. 

Both brothers also had Sun/Jupiter in association. This can suggest a certain identifica- 
tion of personal ego with religious principles, and is one of the hallmarks of the zealot. 


Whether these two features in tandem might constitute a signature for terrorists is a the- 
sis for both astrologers and security agencies the world over to investigate. 


The Jyotish Star interview 


Interview (12 April 2014) conducted by Juliana Swanson for the May 2074 issue of 
Jyotish Star emagazine. 


Juliana Swanson: Is Annand your real name? And are there any other astrologers in 
your family? 

Alan Annand: In my social circles -jyotish, ayurveda and hasta — a lot of people ask 
about my name because it sounds so much like the Sanskrit suffix (meaning bliss, or joy) 
frequently added to the names of paramagurus like Shivananda, Yogananda and others. 
But Annand is also a Scottish surname with origins in Annandale bordering Scotland 
and England. Story has it, my ancestors were kicked out of the UK for stealing the King’s 
sheep. So there are no astrologers in my family tree, just a few night-shift entrepreneurs 
lurking under it. 


JS: Where did you grow up, and what brought you to astrology? 


AA: | grew up in small-town New Brunswick, a part of Atlantic Canada much like Maine. 
Right after graduating from university | discovered Jess Stearn's A Time for Astrology, 
which covered chart calculation and basic interpretation. | was hooked on the spot, 
mostly because my chart said | might be a writer. 


JS: Were you a writer at the time or was this an aspiration? 


AA: A dabbler with literary ambitions, but definitely not “pukka” [Hindi, “cooked, ripe, fully 
formed]. 


JS: Okay, so from Jess Stearn, what was your next step? 


AA: In the absence of local classes, | sought a correspondence course. The British Fac- 
ulty of Astrological Studies (FAS) offered a rigorous curriculum. | did two years of distant 
learning and spent a third year in England, meeting weekly with my British tutor, writing 
assignments and prepping for 16 hours of Diploma exams. 


JS: What year did you complete your exams? 


AA: That was 1980. Afterward, | returned to Canada and moved to Montreal, where | 
began teaching two classes a week. After a few years our Montreal group teamed up 
with Ottawa and Toronto to host three-city tours for big name western astrologers, like 
Jim Lewis, Liz Greene and Noel Tyl. 


| accepted an offer from the FAS to be their North American tutor for correspondence 
students in Canada, USA and Mexico. Meanwhile | was building my practice, doing local 
radio and TV, speaking at conferences. But despite this level of activity, for a year or two 
I'd been thinking, western astrology doesn’t work as well as |’d expected. 


JS: How so? 


AA: | thought it reasonably capable of delineating character, even though | later found 
that jyotish was more thorough. But where it really fell short of my expectations was in 


prediction. Progressions and transits just didn’t deliver the goods. Only later did | realize 
how well Vedic astrology’s planetary periods set the stage for the triggering effect of 
transits, and thus enabled predictions that would otherwise have been unthinkable using 
western techniques alone. 


JS: At what point did you find yourself interested in Vedic astrology? 


AA: | browsed a book on Hindu astrology while in England, but it seemed impenetrable 
at the time. On my birthday a year later | was given James Braha’s Ancient Hindu As- 
trology for the Modern Western Astrologer. Intrigued, | used my western software to 
calculate my sidereal chart with whole-sign houses. 


When my ascendant changed from Leo to Cancer, and my Moon from Sagittarius to 
Scorpio, | was appalled. My western chart was mostly fire, and | identified so strongly 
with the element that | hated the idea of slipping into the waters. | set the book aside. 


JS: How did you eventually did make that shift? 


AA: Months later | returned to it. As a western astrologer I’d always been interested in 
technical components, especially the less-common techniques. | quickly found myself 
fascinated by Vedic astrology’s different aspects, its yogas and planetary periods. 


| attended an ACVA conference in San Diego, returning home with Parashara’s Light 
software and a suitcase full of books. At the conference someone had said, as a Cana- 
dian | must know Hart de Fouw. When | got home | located him in Toronto and sched- 
uled a consultation. After that, | was on the path. Sensing jyotish was more capable 
than western astrology, | immersed myself in its study. 


JS: I’m curious how you managed to change from seeing yourself as a fire person in 
western astrology to a water person in Vedic astrology. What did you have to adjust in 
regard to your understanding about the elements, or even perhaps in regard to your self- 
image? 

AA: Well, in all fairness, | didn’t have to give up too much. In western astrology | had the 
ascendant and six out of nine planets in fire, whereas in the sidereal zodiac | have the 
ascendant and Moon in water, but still five planets in fire. But for the most part I’m an in- 
trovert, so to have both lagna and lagnesh in water makes a lot of sense. 


JS: And how did you transition professionally? 


AA: For a year | prepped twice for every client — a Faculty-trained western analysis, and 
a self-taught pro forma with jyotish. After attending a workshop with Hart, | told him | 
was interested in more. Apparently | wasn’t alone. A year later, he launched his trilogy of 
foundation, intermediate and advanced courses, which | attended in Albuquerque. Later, 
| attended most of his specialty courses in San Francisco. Along the way | also got my 
level two certification from ACVA. 


JS: Have you always been an astrologer, or did you have any former profession? 


AA: During university, | lacked direction but was committed to finishing what | started. | 
ended up getting a BA in English Literature and a BSc in Math & Physics. | started writ- 


ing novels in my mid-twenties and worked sporadically in the mining industry to support 
myself. | sold my first novel at age 29. | got married the following year and became a 
father five years later. Then | had to get serious and get a real job, which turned out to 
be a technical writing contract with Canadian National Railway. That turned into a human 
resources career and 16 years in the corporate world. But at the end of the 20th century 
| quit and went bungee-jumping with my career, intent on being a full-time hyphenate: 
astrologer-writer. 


JS: What teacher(s) inspired you, mentored you, or have been your strongest support 
along the way? 


AA: | was very fortunate to study with Hart de Fouw, a remarkable teacher and practi- 
tioner with a full Vedic toolkit. Attending his classes was like being taught by a Ph.D. in 
jyotish, hasta, ayurveda, nimitta and vastu. But everything Hart taught had real-world 
application, grounded by his “common sense shastra.” 


If my house ever caught fire, after rescuing my wife and dogs, I’d go back for my note- 
books from Hart’s classes, the most valuable things in my library. You can buy books, 
but you can’t find books with this much useful information in them. Outside of class, 
Hart’s also been a great sounding board and critic for things I’ve written, including the 
first thesis ever submitted for ACVA Level II certification, and various articles. 


JS: Are there any other teachers you would like to mention? 


AA: While still living in Montreal, in 2002 | started doing monthly readings in Toronto, 
where | found Hart’s guru, Mantriji, giving satsang at a yoga studio. From then on, | saw 
him every time | visited, and eventually he encouraged my move to Toronto. For seven 
years | attended satsangs, became his frequent chauffeur and enjoyed much discussion 
of jyotish, especially KP, of which he was a brilliant practitioner. He’s since returned to 
India, but | was blessed to spend that time with him. 


JS: What advice would you give to students of Vedic astrology? 


AA: Find a good teacher. Smart as you might be, it’s impossible to resolve the complex- 
ities of jyotish without someone who really knows it. Even if there’s no one qualified in 
your area, find a distance tutor if necessary to help develop a solid pro forma for chart 
analysis. 


Re-read the best books. Take notes, because writing things down embeds key princi- 
ples in memory. And do lots of charts, especially people with distinguishing characteris- 
tics, whether beauty or poor health, wealth or poverty, artistic talent or criminal behavior. 
Observe people and the world becomes your classroom. Become an astrologer and 
you'll never want to retire. 


JS: Please tell us a little bit about your writing/books. 


AA: In high school, | wrote poetry and songs. In university, | wrote student journalism 
under my byline and weird stories under the first of many pseudonyms. After college | 
started writing terrible novels to burn. | got through many Canadian winters that way. 


Eventually | wrote one good enough for New York, and was published at age 29. 
JS: understand you're a prolific author. 


AA: So far, I've published nine novels. | have a Martian streak, so it’s mostly crime fiction. 
Aries plays out in action and adventure, Scorpio in mysteries and the occult, for which 
I've always had a great fascination. 


JS: 1am a personal fan of your New Age Noir series. 


AA: That series is very dear to my heart, written for my tribe of astrologers, palmists, New 
Age readers of every kind, and mystery-lovers. The series hero, Axel Crowe, is an 
homage to Hart de Fouw if he were a private investigator, with the added bonus that he 
can drive a car and play guitar. Scorpio Rising came out in 2011; Felonious Monk in 
April 2014; and Soma County will come in 2015. 


At one point, | became concerned about the rightness of writing fiction, and asked 
Mantriji, Was it proper work? He said it was good, because it was god-like, an act of 
creation, like Shiva giving birth to the multiple worlds. Okay, | said, you had me at god- 
like ... 


JS: Can you tell us about your other writing. 


AA: | also write about jyotish, usually a monthly article for my website. I’m writing a book 
on Parivartana Yoga, expanding on the ACVA thesis | wrote years ago. I’m also writing a 
book on serial killers, using KP to identify periods of violence. The FBI hasn’t yet offered 
me a job in their Behavioral Analysis Unit but, according to my bhukti sequence, | might 
join Criminal Minds in 2015. 


JS: What is it in your natal chart that reflects writing as well as your wonderful sense of 
humor? 

AA:| have at least a few of the signatures for a writer: lagnesh in the 5th house; a strong 
2nd house lord in the 10th; Mercury and Jupiter in kendras; and the lords of the 1 st, 
the 5th and 10th in Mercury nakshatras. The rest of it we’ll have to blame on tricky genes 
and an enlarged funny bone. 


JS: Are you also in private practice as an astrological consultant and/or tutor/teacher? 
AA: I've been doing readings for over 30 years and consider it an art, a science, a duty 
and an ongoing dialog with humanity. | get great feedback so | guess it’s a win/win thing. 
| also give classes in astrology and palmistry, and tutoring in jyotish. I'd like to do more 
conferences but overall, I’m pretty happy with my practice. 

JS: How do you keep everything you do in balance? 


AA: Astrology has made me a more balanced person than | otherwise might have been. 
Whereas writers are often isolated, astrologers must tune into people. |’m grateful to the 
many clients I’ve met, especially those who’ve also become friends. This balance is 
reflected in my days. My mornings are for writing, my afternoons for astrology, and 
evenings for music. At this rate, I’ll never retire. 


JS: And the world will be a better place for that! Thank you, Alan, for sharing such 
wisdom. 


My Practice of Vedic Astrology 
This article first appeared in the May 2014 edition of Jyotish Star. 


Thanks to Juliana Swanson for encouragement and guidance, and Christina Collins 
for publishing. Thanks also to my teachers, Hart de Fouw and his guru Mantrji, without 
whom I'd never have seen the light of the jyotir vidya. 


My jyotish practice 
| remember my first reading from a Vedic astrologer. He said | had the chart of an as- 


trologer but not a classic jyotishi. | think it was a bit of a backhand comment, but | didn’t 
mind. I’ve always been a straddler. 


| discovered western astrology at age 25 and began studies with the British Faculty 

of Astrological Studies when | was 27. Three years later | started giving readings, and 
teaching classes. Western astrology served me well for almost 15 years, until | started 
doubting its ability to deliver. | thought | was smart, had earned professional accredita- 
tion, and put great energy into my work. Why couldn’t | predict more accurately? 


Shortly thereafter, | discovered Vedic astrology. | repeated the learning cycle — a few 
years studying on my own, more than a decade with Hart de Fouw, and ACVA accredi- 
tation. Finally | had new skills to offer my clients, sharper readings and better predictions. 
Over the years, I’ve developed a routine that works for me: 


Calculate the birth chart and rectify as required 


| rectify every chart whose birth time appears approximate. | use major life events, eg, 
immigration, marriage, house purchase, birth of children, death of parents, etc, to see if 
planetary periods and transits make sense. 


| may ask the client for numbers, eg, 1-12 for an ascendant, 1-108 for the navamsha 
lagna, or 1-249 for the KP sub of an ascendant. Or | pick up a book to note the first 
page number | see, then expunge multiples of 12, 108 or 249 to get into the range | 
need. 

Occasionally, | pluck random numbers from the ether. This doesn’t require extraterres- 
trial intelligence, just an internet connection. Random.org has a module that generates 
random numbers from atmospheric noise. For an astrologer, what could be more 
appropriate? 


Often | use Krishnamurti’s system of ruling planets, comparing a prashna with the hypo- 
thetical birth chart to determine the rising sign, star or sub. 


Numerology 


Using a system of correspondence that translates each letter into a single-digit number, | 
convert the client’s name to a single-digit number. In some cases, I'll find it corroborates 


a rectified chart. Other times, it simply highlights a planet that | may choose to consider 
topical in the client’s reading. 


Analyse the chart from a static point of view 


| note all planetary strengths and weaknesses. | review a few dozen yogas in my head 
and note those present. | look for themes that emerge by way of house lordships and 
positions. 


| use one set of techniques to assess relationship patterns, and another set to determine 
career direction. If | can successfully address these two issues, |’ll typically satisfy 80% 
of my clients. 


Although the rashi chart is my benchmark, | also use KP’s unequal house system 
(Placidus), with which many western astrologers are familiar. As house cusps shift, the 
KP chart sometimes reveals themes different from the rashi. 


Analyse the chart from a dynamic point of view 


| note the dasha sequence to see what yogas are activated. | examine whether dasha 
lords figure prominently in any major chart themes. Generally, this gives me the broad 
swoop of the client’s life. 


| study the current bhukti and those following for at least seven years. | follow Jupiter 
and Saturn transits to identify success or difficulty in various life departments over the 
same time span. 


Again, the major focus for dasha/bhukti analysis is the rashi chart, but | often compare 
the KP chart to see if it corroborates or says something different. 


Analyse secondary charts 


| use about a dozen amshas to drill down into whatever departments of life the client’s 
expressed an interest in, or | think pertinent to their stage in life. 


| do alot of compatibility work, and often prepare the chart of a “significant other” in 
the client’s life. Often | don’t have their birth time, maybe not even their birth place. In 
that case, | apply local time and place to their birth dates. Although this might seem like 
serendipity, | trust in nature’s willingness to cough up useful information. Some of my 
most insightful “quickie” readings have been based on this technique. 


Answer the client’s questions 

Prior to their reading | solicit issues of concern, or specific questions the client wants 
addressed. In the preparation phase, | use various techniques to develop answers. 
This entails both static and dynamic assessment. Questions regarding marriage or 


having children, for example, are really two-fold. At the static level, the answer is yes or 
no. At the dynamic level, it’s a question of predicting when it may happen. 


Although I’ve been lucky, I’m not perfect. | try to get it right within a year or so by using 
bhukti analysis, or when transits seem to line up, sometimes within a month or less. 


My teacher’s guru used to say, Predicting a person’s future is God’s work, and He 
guards his work jealously. lf it were easy, everybody would be doing it. 


Prepare a prashna chart 


Before the client arrives, | prepare a prashna chart for the appointment time and note 
the Moon’s star-lord. | examine that same planet in the client’s chart. Whatever it signi- 
fies, the client will have that subject in mind. 


A second step in this same technique involves the Moon’s sub-lord in the prashna chart. 
| likewise study that planet too for its significations in the client’s chart. Overlaps in par- 
ticular offer clues to what’s topical. 


Attitude 


Before the reading, | take a few minutes to get into an appropriate mental state. De- 
pending on how much time is available, that may involve deep breathing, giving thanks 
to my teachers, saying a mantra and/or meditating. 


Physiognomy 
When the client arrives, | give them a few minutes to settle in as we have an introductory 


chat. | try to assess their ayurvedic type, whether vata, pitta or kapha. Although | already 
have an opinion of their primary doshas based on their chart, this is my reality check. 


| observe body language. | note what part of their body they might touch first, or 
frequently. Every part of the body, or face for that matter, correlates to a sign, perhaps 
triggering an association with lifelong or topical issues. 


Palmistry 


| examine the client’s hands and spend half an hour discussing what palmistry says 
about them. This is when | really make contact with the client, literally and psychologi- 
cally. Although | don’t consider palmistry my forte, I’m constantly surprised by the pos- 
itive feedback from clients. Thus the hand becomes a benchmark to which | may refer 
later in the consultation, whether discussing relationships, career, health or other issues. 


The chart reading 


In the next half hour, | provide a static interpretation of the client’s chart, covering what- 
ever’s dominant, interesting, topical or suitable to discuss. On the latter note, | never 
speculate on anyone’s death unless specifically requested, and then only if there are 
very good reasons to do so. My focus is typically relationships and career, and then gen- 
eral health, family, finances, and creative or spiritual pursuits as relevant. 


In the last half hour, | cover the dynamic aspect of the chart. | describe how dashas and 
bhuktis set the stage for certain trends to develop, and how Jupiter and Saturn provide 
triggers for events. Here’s where | use more KP, looking for activation of things through 
dasha, bhukti and transits, right down to Sun and Moon if | feel emboldened to get that 
specific. 


Q&A wrap-up 


In whatever time remains, or | choose to take, | tie up loose ends. If | haven’t already 
answered the client’s questions, |’ll cover them now, or deal with questions just arising. 


Many questions aren’t easy to answer via the birth chart or its amshas. In such cases, |’ll 
use the prashna chart to provide answers. 


If the client has many questions, and | have time to indulge, | may play spin-the-chart. 
For example, when they ask a question, | ask for a number. Whatever they give me, | 
expunge multiples of 12 and reduce it to the zodiacal range. So if they say 32, | can toss 
off 24 and call it 8. 


| then rotate the prashna chart to place Scorpio in the ascendant and answer their ques- 
tion based on that resulting chart. And so on. 


The five-trick pony 


As a western astrologer, | practiced only astrology. But in Hart’s many classes — on 
Jyotish, hasta, ayurveda, vastu, etc —| often heard him say, “Don’t be a one-trick pony,” 
by which he meant, don’t depend on one technique alone. So I’ve taken that advice to 
heart, and try to apply it in all of my client readings. Perhaps someday I'll be a five-trick 
pony. 


APPENDICES 


Appendix 1: Birth data of individuals 
(Except where noted, all birth data courtesy Astrodatabank) 


Bieber, Justin. OOh56 EST, 01 March 1994. Stratford, ON, Canada. 

Bin Laden, Osama. Time unknown, 10 March 1975. Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. 
Bonaparte, Napoleon. 11h30 LMT, 15 August 1769. Ajaccio, France. 
Campbell, Naomi. 01h00 BST, 22 May 1970. Streatham, England. 

Cohen, Leonard. 06h45 EDST, 21 September 1934. Westmount, QC, Canada. 
Cyrus, Miley. O06h37 EST, 23 November 1992. Franklin, TN, USA. 

Gaga, Lady. 09h53 EST, 28 March 1986. New York, NY, USA. 

Gates, Bill. 21h15 PST, 28 October 1955. Seattle, WA, USA. 

Hitler, Adolf. 18h30 LMT, 20 April 1889. Braunau, Austria. 

Houston, Whitney. 20h55 EDST, 09 August 1963. Newark, NJ, USA. 

King, Larry. 10h38 EST, 19 November 1933. Brooklyn, NY, USA. 

Kouachi, Cherif. 22h20 CET, 29 November 1982. Paris, France. 

Kouachi, Said. 01h40 CEDT, 07 September 1980. Paris, France. 

Lohan, Lindsay. 21h50 EDST, 02 July 1986. New York, NY, USA. 
Middleton, Kate. Time unknown, 09 January 1982. Reading, England. 
Monroe, Marilyn. O9h380 PST, 01 June 1926. Los Angeles, CA, USA. 


Moore, Demi. 14h16 MST, 11 November 1962. Roswell, NM, USA. 
Morissette, Alanis. O9h389 EDST, 01 June 1974. Ottawa, ON, Canada. 
Pattinson, Robert. O8h32 BST, 13 May 1986. London, England. 

Pistorius, Oscar. 10n30 EET, 22 November 1986. Johannesburg, South Africa. 
Schumacher, Michael. 13h43 MET, 03 January 1969. Hurth, Germany. 
Sheen, Charlie. 22n48 EDST, 03 September 1965. New York, NY, USA. 
Snowden, Edward. 04h42 EDST, 21 June 1983. Elizabeth City, NC, USA. 
Stewart, Kristen. O9h21 PDST, 09 April 1990. Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
Sutcliffe, Peter. 20n30 BST, 02 June 1946. Bingley, England. 

Swift, Taylor. 20n46 EST, 13 December 1989. Wyomissing, PA, USA. 
Tsarnaev, Dzhokar. Time unknown, 22 July 1993. Groznyi, Russia. 
Tsarnaev, Tamerlan. Time unknown, 21 October 1986. Groznyi, Russia. 
Tyson, Mike. Time unknown, 30 June 1966. Catskill, NY, USA. 

West, Kanye. 08h45 EDST, 08 June 1977. Atlanta, GA, USA. 


Williams, Robin. 1434 CDST, 21 July 1951. Chicago, IL, USA. 
Windsor, William. 21h03 BST, 21 June 1982. Paddington, England. 


Winehouse, Amy. 22h25 BST, 14 September 1983. Enfield, England. 
Woods, Tiger. 22h50 PST, 30 December 1975. Long Beach, CA, USA. 
Appendix 2: Timing of mundane events 


Attack, Charlie Hebdo offices. 11h380 CET, 07 January 2015. Paris, France. 

Bombing, Boston Marathon. 1450 EDST, 15 April 2013. Boston, MA, USA. 

Car crash, Tiger Woods. 02h25 EST, 27 November 2009. Windermere, FL, USA. 
Murder, Lee Rigby. 14h19 BST, 22 May 2013. Woolwich, England. 

Operation Barbarossa, Adolf Hitler. O8h15 EEW, 22 June 1941. Brest-Litovsk, Belarus. 


Operation Neptune Spear, Osama bin Laden. 01h30 PKT, 02 May 2011. Abbottabad, 
Pakistan. 


Russian Campaign, Napoleon Bonaparte. 22h00 LMT, 24 June 1812. Kaunas, Lithua- 
nia. 

Satum return, Peter Sutcliffe. 16h28 BST, 18 July 1975. Bingley, England. 

Ski accident, Michael Schumacher. 11h07 MET, 29 December 2013. Meribel, France. 


STELLAR ASTROLOGY 
VOLUME 2 


by 
ALAN ANNAND 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Preface 


BIOGRAPHIES 

Indira Gandhi: Parivartana power 

Nikola Tesla: Child of the storm 

Three film directors: Lights, action, Parivartana Yoga 
Muhammad Ali: Noble warrior 


Carrie Fisher: Postcards from the edge of the galaxy 


CRIME 
Helter Skelter: Malefics unbound in the Manson Family 
The Beltway Sniper: Malefics in the crosshairs 


MUNDANE 


The Ashley-Madison affair: Venus & Mars are not alright tonight 
Disasters and Mercury Retrograde 


MusiciANs 


Club 27 rock stars: Hope | die before | get old 

David Bowie: The starman who fell to earth 

Prince: Are we gonna let de-elevator bring us down? 
Keith Richards & Jimmy Page: Mutually in tune 


PALMISTRY 

Penis size: Comparing index/ring finger ratios 
Donald Trump: Short-fingered vulgarian at the gates 
Researchers finger top financial traders 


Pouitics 
Bernie Sanders: Not-for-sale maverick 
Justin Trudeau: Canada’s knockout Prime Minister 


Donald Trump: The man who would be kingmaker 


SPIRITUALITY 

Swami Prabhupada: A choice of ascendants 
Tamil Goswami: Pretender to the throne 
Karma: Dridha vs adridha 


TECHNICAL 


Viparita Raja Yoga: Going under to cross over 

Mathematics of Yogas, part 1: Pancha Mahapurusha, Chandra Mangala, Maha 
Bhagya 

Mathematics of yogas, part 2: Budhaditya, Kesari, Kujadosha 

Mathematics of yogas, part 3: Parivartana Yoga 

Mathematics of yogas, part 4: Raja Yoga 

Mathematics of yogas, part 5: Dhana Yoga 

Mathematics of yogas, part 6: Viparita Yoga 

Kala Sarpa: Yoga or dosha? 


APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Birth data of individuals 
Appendix 2: Timing of mundane events 
Appendix 3: List of graphs & tables 


About the author 


BIOGRAPHIES 


Indira Gandhi: Parivartana power 


Indira Gandhi was a remarkable woman on two scores. On a mundane level, she is 
India’s only female prime minister to date. On a stellar level, she has three Parivartana 
Yogas in her chart. 


How rare is that? Although 43% of the general population has one Parivartana Yoga, 
only 3% has two, and only 0.03% has three such yogas. That’s only three people in 
10,000! 


Indira Gandhi: the mini-biography 

Indira Gandhi was India’s Prime Minister during 1966-77 and 1980-84. Daughter of 
India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, she received an excellent education, study- 
ing history at Oxford and speaking perfect French. 


During university, she was plagued with ill-health and constantly attended by doctors. 
Against her father’s wishes she married a man who turned out to be an alcoholic and 
womanizer. 


As Prime Minister, Gandhi was politically ruthless in centralizing her power. Although 
charged with electoral malpractice, jailed and banned from office, she staged a come- 
back. During India’s state of emergency, she allowed her son Sanjay to create what was 
effectively a police state. 


She was an advocate of equal pay for equal work. She presided over the nationalization 
of India’s banking, coal, steel, copper, refining, textile and insurance industries, largely 
to protect employment and the interests of organized labor. She also orchestrated mass 
redistribution of land to assist the lower classes. 


Gandhi unleashed a powerful military offensive in the 1970s, waging wars against Pak- 
istan and East Pakistan, resulting in the partition of Bangladesh. She formed an alliance 
with Russia to the chagrin of America. 

She was assassinated by two Sikh bodyguards whose loyalties changed after she used 
the army to dislodge militants from a Sikh holy site. 


Indira Gandhi: her chart 
Indira Gandhi was born 19 November 1917 at 23h11 in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India. 


Her chart contains several significant yogas. As a woman born at night with the Sun, 
Moon and ascendant all in even signs, her Maha Bhagya Yoga qualifies her as some- 
thing of a female “lord of the earth”, ie, a political leader. 


A Budhaditya Yoga with Sun and Mercury in the 5th makes her astute and intellectually 
capable. The mutual aspect of Moon and Saturn, lords of 1st and 7th houses, forms 
Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga, wielding power over the masses. The mutual aspect of 
Sun and Jupiter, lords of 2nd and 9th, forms Dhana Yoga. On the negative side, Pa- 
pakartari Yoga is formed with Mars and Ketu flanking Saturn in the ascendant, a harbin- 
ger of her many troubles in life. 


In addition to the above, the presence of three Parivartana Yogas looms above all else, 
and is worthy of a discussion all on its own. 


Parivartana Yoga: a definition 


The word parivartana has many meanings. The Monier-Williams’ Sanskrit-English 
Dictionary gives us: “turning or whirling around; rolling about, moving to and fro; invert- 
ing, putting in a reverse order; barter, exchange, return.” 


In essence, parivartana connotes mobility and movement, but only in the sense that the 
planets are symbolically mobile. A Parivartana Yoga has nothing to do with travel per se, 
but by implication, a Parivartana Yoga is dynamic, because the two planets are linked in 
a manner that allows transposition by sign and, therefore, by house. 


The exchange of lords invokes the cooperation of their respective houses, but the nature 
of houses varies significantly. Broadly speaking, we can divide houses into two distinct 
groups: 

* Positive houses include the kendras (1-4-7-10), the trikonas (5-9) and the so- 

called neutral houses (2-11). 

* Negative houses include the dusthanas (3-6-8-12). 
Of the latter, we can make further distinctions between “serious” dusthanas, ie, the 
trikasthanas (6-8-12), and the “mild” dusthana of the 3rd house. Trik houses are gener- 
ally problematic, and considered undesirable locations for any planet. Somewhat better 
is the 3rd house, an upachaya bhava representing difficulties at the outset, but improve- 
ment over time. 


The various exchanges of house lords can thus be grouped into three distinct categories 


of yoga, each with a more specific designation: 


Maha Parivartana Yoga 


Maha means “dignified, exalted, glorious, majestic, nobly born.” A Maha Parivartana 
Yoga therefore implies a touch of divine fortune. The yoga involves the mutual exchange 
of any two positive house lords, ie, the lords of houses 1-2-4-5-7-9-10-11. 


Mantreswara said of this yoga: “The native born with a Maha Yoga in his birth chart 
will be endowed with the blessings of the Goddess Shri, will have enormous wealth, 
will have garments of variegated colors, wear gold ornaments, will be richly rewarded 
by the sovereign with gifts and administrative authority, and possess vehicles, wealth 
and children.” (Phala Deepika 6:34) 


There are two Maha Parivartana Yogas in Gandhi's chart. 


The first yoga: 

Saturn in 1st house Cancer exchanges with the Moon in 7th house Capricorn to form 
a Maha Parivartana Yoga. Saturn is in ordinary condition, although the Moon could be 
considered weak since it lies within six tithis (roughly 72 degrees) of the Sun. 


The Moon/Saturn pair also forms a Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga, being lords of 1/7 in 
mutual aspect. Post-exchange, Saturn gains dig bala. Pre- or post-exchange, the planet 
in the 7th receives an aspect from Jupiter. 


First house themes emerged via her considerable charisma by which she was able, de- 
spite being a woman, to attain unprecedented power — as a cabinet minister, Congress 
Party leader and the longest-serving Prime Minister of India. But the negative side of 1st 
house meanings also manifested in her many personal health issues, especially in her 
school years. 


Seventh house themes included a very mixed review of “relationship” issues: a difficult 
marriage, one-sided political partnerships, and a somewhat volatile foreign relations 
policy that saw India siding with Russia, irking America, and precipitating wars with both 
Pakistan and China. 


The second yoga: 

Mars in 2nd house Leo exchanges with Sun in 5th house Scorpio to form a second 
Maha Parivartana Yoga. Both planets are ordinary, although the Sun forms a Dhana 
Yoga with Jupiter, and a Budhaditya Yoga with Mercury. 

Post-exchange, Mars in the 5th would, as 10th lord, form a Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yoga via its mutual aspect with Jupiter the lord of the 9th. 

Second house themes emerged via her “Nehru Dynasty” family, wherein both her father 
Jawaharlal Nehru and her son Rajiv were prime ministers. Economics issues plagued 
her stewardship of India, but as PM she doggedly presided over three 5-year plans, two 
of which met their targets. 


Fifth house themes included challenging and successful ministerial roles, but also diffi- 


culty in studies, where at university she was a Somewhat mediocre student. Her sorrows 
with respect to her children are well known: her younger son and heir-apparent Sanjay 
died in a flying accident; her elder son Rajiv, urged into politics to become PM, was later 
assassinated. 


Khala Parivartana Yoga 


Note: there is no Khala Parivartana Yoga in Gandhi's chart, but for the sake of discus- 
sion, it is briefly defined and described here. 


Khala means “abusive, contentious, mischievous, quarrelsome, villainous, wicked.” A 
Khala Parivartana Yoga therefore implies something of a troublemaker. The yoga in- 
volves the mutual exchange of the 3rd house lord with any one of the positive house 
lords, ie, houses 1-2-4-5-7-9-10-11. 

Here again, Mantreswara says: “The native born with a Khala Yoga in his birth chart is 
sometimes haughty and at times very gentle and polite. His life is dotted with both 
success and failures. At times he has Goa’s plenty and at another he is in distress, 
poverty, misery and the like.” (Phala Deepika 6:33) 


Dainya Parivartana Yoga 


Dainya means “affliction, depression, misery, wretchedness.” A Dainya Parivartana 
Yoga thus implies difficulties and misfortunes. The yoga involves the mutual exchange of 
any trik lords, ie, the lords of houses 6-8-12, among themselves or with any lord of the 
remaining houses, ie, 1-2-3-4-5-7-9-10-11. 

Again, in Mantreswara’s words: “The native born with a Dainya Yoga in his birth chart 
is a fool, speaks ill of others, always acting sinfully, tormented by his enemies, always 
hurts the feelings of others by his speech and is of unstable mind. Whatever he ven- 
tures, it is full of hurdles.” (Phala Deepika 6:33) 


There is one Dainya Parivartana Yoga in Gandhi's chart: 


Venus in 6th house Sagittarius exchanges with Jupiter in 11th house Taurus to form 
Dainya Parivartana Yoga. Jupiter is retrograde, therefore strong, and involved in a 
Dhana Yoga via its mutual aspect with the Sun. 


Post-exchange, neither Jupiter nor Venus forms any constructive yoga. 


Sixth house themes are evidenced in Gandhi’s strong-arm tactics, rule by decree, 

and her brutal exercise of police and military might during India’s state of emergency 
1975-1977. This theme can also be seen in the “Indira Doctrine” that sought to unite 
various bordering states under India’s rule. Meanwhile, however, her sympathy for orga- 
nized labor and the rural masses also worked its way through legislation in the form of 
land distribution, equal pay for equal work, and the nationalization of industry. 


Eleventh house issues were exemplified in her extensive social reforms, and political 
astuteness both home and abroad. But the blending of 6/11 themes also played out in 


her fluctuating political fortunes, wherein friends and allies of today became opponents 
of tomorrow, and vice versa, and back and forth between jail and positions of power. 


The phenomenon was significant enough in her case to say that she was literally sur- 
rounded by “frenemies” of whose allegiances she could never be quite assured. This 
morphing of friends into enemies, and the reversal of fortunes that could accompany it, 
was perhaps epitomized by her death at the hands of her own Sikh bodyguards. 


Thus, throughout the whole of her life, irrespective of other yogas in her chart, we can 
see much evidence of these three Parivartana Yogas in action, especially the last. As 
Indira once observed, “All my games were political games; | was like Joan of Arc, per- 
petually being burned at the stake.” 


Note: To learn more about these powerful planetary combinations based on mutual 
reception (sign exchange), look for my book - Parivartana Yoga — available at all online 
retailers. 


Nikola Tesla: Child of the storm 


Once, when asked by someone what it felt like to be the smartest man in the world, Al- 
bert Einstein said, “| don’t know. You should ask Nikola Tesla.” 


Tesla, an electrical engineer and physicist renowned for his showmanship in demon- 
strating his inventions, was something of a mad scientist. Over the course of his career 
he amassed an intellectual property of almost 300 patents, primarily in the field of elec- 
tricity, chief among which was his invention of the alternating current (AC) power supply 
system. 


He was a tireless worker, often putting in 18 hours a day at his laboratory, getting by on 
only two or three hours of sleep. Although attractive and charming and much sought- 
after by the high-society salons of the day, he was a lifelong bachelor, having declared 
that a relationship would only distract him from his life’s work. 


Tesla was born during a thunderstorm at midnight between the 9th and 10th of July, 
1856 in Smiljan, modern-day Croatia. When the midwife handed him over to his mother, 
she called him “a child of the storm.” Tesla’s father was a priest with a talent for mechan- 
ical devices. His mother had a photographic memory and a similar talent for gadgets. 


Nikola Tesia 
00h01, 10 July 1858 


Smiljan, Croatia 


Tesla’s chart is remarkable in that every single planet is in a dual sign and cadent (apok- 
lima) houses. Although some say that a complete absence of angular planets will leave 
the person with no capacity for mundane influence, Tesla’s sheer intellectual brilliance 
was such that he was more than capable of overcoming this impediment. 


Mercury and Jupiter, the two intellectual planets, are both in their own signs. From both 
Chandralagna and Suryalagna, Mercury thus forms Bhadra Yoga, while Jupiter forms 
Hamsa Yoga. However, Mercury’s influence is far more pervasive. Mercury is the dis- 
positor of seven planets, including lagnesh Mars, the Moon and the Sun, thus achieving 
the status of a control planet with respect to both character and career. 

With Mercury powerful in its own sign, Tesla was the quintessential Gemini. An om- 


nivorous reader who could memorize whole books, he was a polyglot, speaking eight 
languages. He went through technical school and university at an accelerated rate but 


also paid the price through periodic nervous exhaustion from studying so much. 


He loved to play cards and at one point became so addicted to gambling that he lost an 
entire year’s tuition, but then returned to cards with a vengeance and won it all back. He 
was also a good chess player and in later years became an excellent billiard player. 


His chart contains multiple Raja Yogas (success in life) via the combination of dharma- 
karma lordship pairs: Moon-Mars, Moon-Jupiter, Mars-Jupiter, Sun-Venus and Sun-Sat- 
urn. Except for a brief period of time, he was always employed, enjoyed the patronage 
of wealthy financiers and industrialists, and was much sought after in New York social 
circles. 


He has two Dhana Yogas (wealth) formed via Sun-Venus and Sun-Saturn. He was a 
millionaire by the age of 40 and lived on a steady stream of revenues from his many 
patents. 


Sun-Mercury forms Budhaditya Yoga, giving him intellectual brilliance. Moon-Mars gives 
Chandra Mangala Yoga, which accounts for his tireless work ethic. Moon-Jupiter gives 
Kesari Yoga, granting him a natural charm that made him the target for many a New 
York matron hoping to marry off a daughter. 


Tesla’s chart also has a Kala Sarpa Yoga, with Rahu/Ketu in the 6th/12th axis controlled 
by those same two dignified intellectual planets, Mercury and Jupiter. Kala Sarpa always 
poses the prospect of a mixed blessing — great power but simultaneous risk of destruc- 
tion from forces too large to handle — which sounds very much like electricity itself. 


In the end, it was Tesla’s Pravrajya Yoga in the third house that spelled out his destiny. 
The yoga is formed within the defined parameters — four planets or more, not counting 
the nodes, in one house — and thus grants a combination that spells concentration to 
some inordinate degree. Found in houses like the 9th or 12th, it inclines toward spiritual 
pursuits, but even in other houses there can be an element of zeal bordering on religious 
fervor. In Tesla’s case, it was physics, which is a field associated with the third house of 
science. 


As for traditional relationships, this same Pravrajya Yoga strikes a death knell. Here, 
Mercury in its own sign disposits its two friends Venus and Saturn, along with the Sun. 
Although Mercury, Venus and Saturn are all kama lords of the 3rd, 7th and 11th houses, 
Mercury is considered incapable of romantic relationship because it is “juvenile.” Thus, 
the entire bias of this kama pattern is skewed away from the notion of sexual intercourse 
in favor of intellectual discourse. 


With both lagnesh Mars and 7th lord Venus in Mercury ruled-signs, not to mention 
being in unfriendly (square) disposition to each other, romantic relationship was never on 
Tesla’s radar. Although he enjoyed a close friendship with one of his benefactor’s wives, 
their relationship was purely intellectual. 

In fact, his greatest declaration of love was for a white pigeon that he fed and cared for, 


once spending a fortune (in that era) to create a prosthesis for its broken wing. When it 
eventually died, he was broken-hearted. “I loved that pigeon as a man loves a woman, 


and she loved me. As long as | had her, there was a purpose to my life.” Note that Sat- 
urn, coupled with his 7th lord Venus, is often associated with birds, all the more so if lo- 
cated in air signs. 


Tesla was an archetype of Mercury — a human calculator of profound capacity. During 
technical school and university he was capable of mentally solving equations and prob- 
lems so readily that he was suspected of cheating. He was able to “build” prototypes in 
his mind, set them in motion and observe these imaginary models long enough to antic- 
ipate where machine fatigue or electrical burnout would occur. 


But his Mercurial nature had its downside as well. Aside from his blinding flashes of 
insight, he also suffered auditory and visual “hallucinations” that frightened him. Today 
he would probably have been diagnosed with OCD — Obsessive Compulsive Disorder. 
He had a germ phobia and couldn't bear to shake hands. He hated most jewelry on 
women, especially pearls, but was fascinated by jewels because of their geometric 
facets. 


He counted his steps everywhere he walked and enjoyed little of dining except the 
intellectual exercise of calculating the volumes of his soup or dinner plate. In his personal 
space, he required three of everything — napkins, towels, blankets — and the numbers 
of most everything he owned and worked with had to be divisible by three. Interestingly 
enough, Mercury is itself associated with triangles. 


His life story was like the alternating current for which he was famous — one step 
forward, one step back, and often out of phase with others. His older brother died at 
the tail end of his Mars dasha, plunging Tesla into a morbid period. Rahu dasha, giving 
results for 9th lord Jupiter, was largely devoted to his studies. During Rahu-Mercury, he 
became so ill that his family feared his death, but it was all because his father wanted 
him to become a priest rather than a scientist. As soon as his father relented, Tesla 
made a miraculous recovery and returned to university in Austria. 


His whole Jupiter dasha brought a string of good fortune and remarkable accomplish- 
ments. Note, this swa Jupiter is in a Mercury nakshatra, while Mercury itself is the dis- 
positor of seven planets, lord of the 3rd house of technical sciences, and ruling the 6th 
house of competition. 


At the outset of his Jupiter dasha, Tesla moved to Paris and worked briefly as an elec- 
trical engineer for the Edison company before sailing to New York. After a few on-and- 
off jobs, he hit a low point in his Jupiter-Saturn period during which time the 28-year-old 
engineer dug ditches for $2 a day. In Jupiter-Mercury he was granted 30 patents, one of 
which was for the now-ubiquitous AC power system. 


In Jupiter-Ketu he met George Westinghouse who gave him $1 million (in 1889) for the 
right to use his AC patent for multiple electrical utility projects, most notably the contract 
to harness the Niagara Falls to provide power to the Buffalo area. Sadly, during Jupiter- 
Mars, his New York laboratory caught fire and burned, destroying all of his equipment 
and scientific notes. 

At the outset of Saturn dasha, Tesla left New York and moved to Colorado where he 
established a research facility to experiment with wireless communications and the har- 
nessing of artificial lightning that generated 135-foot bolts of electricity with discharges 
of a million volts and more. During one of these experiments, he accidentally blew out 
the local power generating station. Having overstayed his welcome, he closed his lab 
and moved back to New York. Shortly thereafter, in Saturn-Mercury, he met the industri- 
alist J.P. Morgan who became the sponsor for his ongoing work. 


Mercury dasha saw Tesla further retreat into the eccentric manners and lifestyle of the 
mad scientist, a brilliant but celibate hermit. He took up residence in the Hotel New 
Yorker, and dined alone every evening at 8:10 PM, alternating between two exclusive 
restaurants to which he would phone in advance his dinner order. Every day he would 
go to the New York Public Library to feed pigeons. And he walked everywhere. Although 
6 foot 2, he weighed 142 pounds throughout his life, never saw a doctor and became a 
vegetarian in his later years. 


Although the Nobel Prize eluded him, during Mercury-Mercury he was awarded the 
Edison Prize in acknowledgement of his profound contribution to the science of electric- 
ity. lronically, Edison was the inventor of the DC power mode with whose system Tesla 
had competed for acceptance over the span of two decades, and whom he intensely 
disliked every since Edison had reneged on a promised financial bonus for services Tesla 
had provided in his early days. 


Tesla died of coronary thrombosis, alone in his hotel room on 7 January 1943, a Do 
Not Disturb sign hung on his door. He was running Venus-Venus. Venus occupies the 
stellium in the 3rd house (12th from the 4th, which represents the heart) containing both 
malefics Sun and Saturn. Furthermore, Venus is a double maraka, owning both the 2nd 
and 7th houses. Finally, Venus occupied a nakshatra of Jupiter in the 12th, spelling the 
end of things. 

Although his work fell into obscurity after his death, there has been a resurgence of 
interest in Nikola Tesla in popular culture since the 1990s. Handsome, magnetic and el- 
egantly tragic, he has become the unsung hero of the electrical age. 


Three film directors: Lights, action, Parivartana Yoga 


Mutual reception & career 


Last year, while researching a book on Parivartana Yoga, | discovered several famous 
people with identical mutual receptions pursuing the same profession. One such stellar 
pair, guitarists Keith Richards and Jimmy Page, I’ve also discussed in another article in a 
later section (Musicians) of this book. 


What caught my eye in the present case were not two, but three, famous directors with 
a Parivartana Yoga between 3rd and 4th lords. Upon closer inspection, | found many 
more common factors. Aside from all three being Italian, their lives exhibited several sim- 
ilarities, courtesy of their common astrological attributes. 


Federico Fellini 


Fellini was born 20 January 1920 at 9 PM in Rimini, Italy. Although his name is virtually 
synonymous with avant-garde filmmaking, he began his career as a magazine and gag 
writer rather than a director. His career enjoyed many successes alternating with disap- 
pointments, his most famous films being 8%, La Dolce Vita and Amarcord. |n a career 
spanning 50 years, he received 12 Academy Award nominations and won four Oscars. 
He had one long-term marriage, lost his only child shortly after birth, suffered depression 
and underwent psychotherapy. Revered in Italy, his memorial ceremony was attended 
by 70,000 mourners. 


21h00, 20 Jan 1920 
Rimini, italy 


Francis Ford Coppola 


Coppola was born 7 April 1939 at 1:38 AM in Detroit, Michigan. He came from an 
accomplished artistic and musical family, suffered polio as a child, and was such a nerd 
his friends called him “Science.” His father wanted him to be an engineer, but he won 

a screenwriting scholarship to UCLA and thus embarked on a movie Career, initially as 
a writer. His film career was successful but turbulent, earning multiple Oscars against a 
backdrop of recurring financial problems. His most famous films were The Godfather, 
Apocalypse Now and Bram Stoker’s Dracula. 


Francis Ford Coppota 


01h38, 07 Apr 1939 
Detroit, USA 


Martin Scorsese 


Scorsese was born 17 November 1942 at 00:24 AM in Flushing, New York. He had 
asthma as a child and was unable to play sports so his part-time actor parents often 
took him to the movies. His career started modestly but grew steadily, and he’s now 
regarded one of the finest directors of the era. His best-known films are Taxi Driver, 
Raging Bull, Goodfellas, and The Last Temptation of Christ, many of which express 
themes of violence and spirituality. He has had longstanding working relationships with 


fellow Italians Robert De Niro and Leonardo DiCaprio. 
AS 0337 : 


m Ra os 49 


Su 0108 
Ve or18 


SaR 1700 


The astrological analysis 


Aside from ancestry and career, however, these three directors share a remarkable 
number of astrological factors that are reflected in their personal and professional lives: 


Ascendants on fire 

By virtue of their role, directors must control every aspect of a film. Fellini had Leo, Cop- 
pola Sagittarius, and Scorsese Leo rising. Fire is a controlling element, as exemplified 
by its association with the kshatriya (ruling) caste. Leo in particular is also known for its 
commanding performance. 


Compromised Moon 


You have to be crazy to risk your life in the cinema. Fellini has a dark (new) Moon in the 
6th, in a Saturn sign, where it is afflicted by Mars. For a time, he suffered from clinical 
depression. Coppola has a debilitated Moon in the 12th, a Mars sign, but seems not to 
have suffered any depression. It helped, perhaps, that he’s owned a Napa vineyard for 
decades, and planets in the 12th can indicate inebriation. Scorsese’s Moon is in the 7th 
in a Saturn sign, afflicted by Saturn and Ketu. After burning out on cocaine, he fell into 
a depression, rescued only by friend Robert De Niro who insisted they make another 
movie together. 


Angular Saturn 


You've got to be in it for the long haul, and overcome all kinds of obstacles. Fellini’s Sat- 
urn occupies his first house. He started at the bottom and worked his way up the ladder, 
suffering almost as many setbacks as successes. Coppola’s Saturn occupies his 4th 
house. He got a good education and enjoyed early success (The Goafather at age 32) 
but he suffered under studio rule and often felt on the verge of being fired. Scorsese’s 
Saturn occupies his 10th house. He’s been very productive, enjoying far more hits than 
flops, and his reputation looms larger as the years go by. 


Sun/Saturn sambandha 


If the Sun reflects the ego, Saturn is the reality that the ego must face. Fellini has Sun/ 
Saturn in mutual reception across the 1st and 6th houses. His health wasn’t great (res- 
piratory and heart problems) but he had a competitive spirit. Coppola has Sun/Saturn 
conjunct in the 4th. He came from an accomplished artistic family, received an excellent 
education in film, suffered major financial setbacks, but accumulated much in the form 
of real estate. Scorsese has Sun/Saturn opposed in the 4th and 10th. He’s taken on so 
many projects he seems to be a workaholic, but keeps getting better as he gets older. 


Mars/Saturn sambandha 


Mars evokes passion and violence, while Saturn reflects loss and sorrow. Fellini’s Saturn 
aspects his Mars in the 3rd, reflecting his respiratory problems. Coppola’s Mars and 
Saturn, traditional enemies, antagonize each other by aspect. Coppola wrote scripts for 
three war movies: /s Paris Burning?, Patton and Apocalypse Now. And as lords of the 
12th and 2nd, loss and money, respectively, they invoked his two bankruptcies. Scors- 
ese’s Mars/Saturn are in a 6/8 relationship. His most important films reflect his fascina- 
tion with violence and criminal elements of the underworld. 


Conflicted 5th house 


The 5th reflects the creative mind, children and drama. Fellini's 5th lord Jupiter is exalted 
and retrograde in the 12th house, where it’s afflicted by the Sun and a dark Moon. 

His only son died of encephalitis a month after birth. Coppola’s 5th is occupied by a 
strong Ketu, while its lord Mars is afflicted by Saturn. Coppola’s oldest son died in a 


bizarre boating accident. Scorsese’s 5th lord Jupiter is exalted and retrograde in the 
12th house, where it’s aspected by Satum. He has three daughters, two of whom are 
actresses. 


Parivartana Yoga between 3rd and 4th lords 


Such a configuration allows for interpretations on many themes — mother, education, 
property, and the heart. In reality, with the 4th lord having moved 12 houses away, this 
potentially poses problems for all of the above. In virtual post-exchange, however, this 
can likewise benefit many of the same, since both the 3rd and 4th lords will occupy their 
own signs after exchange. The lords’ association with, and aspects from, other planets 
helps to determine the outcomes. The “migration” between 3rd and 4th lords can also 
reflect changes of residence, property and/or schools. 
* Fellini had Parivartana Yoga between Mars and Venus. The 4th lord Mars is 
afflicted by both Rahu and Satum. He suffered a bad heart. He also had to relo- 
cate from his birthplace Rimini to Rome in order to find work, his career and ulti- 
mate success. 
* Coppola has Parivartana Yoga between Jupiter and Saturn. The Sun and 
debilitated Mercury compromise the 4th house to some degree, while Venus in 
the 3rd provides stability. His mother (4th) was an accomplished singer, his sister 
(8rd) an actor, his older brother (11th) was a writer, whose son (3rd) is actor Nico- 
las Cage. Coppola attended 23 different schools in the course of his education, 
and he owns a great deal of property — two estates in California, and resorts in 
Belize, Guatemala, Argentina and Italy. 
* Scorsese has Parivartana Yoga between Mars and Venus. His 4th house is 
moderately afflicted by the Sun and Saturn. His mother was a bit actor and died 
with Alzheimer’s. 


[Note: To learn more about these powerful planetary combinations based on mutual 


reception (sign exchange), look for my book - Parivartana Yoga — available on all on- 
line retailers. ] 


Nodal signatures 


To succeed in any art, the artist must first master the medium, but second, challenge 
and overthrow its conventions. Scorsese once identified the four roles of a director: 
storyteller, illusionist, smuggler and iconoclast — with a talent, respectively, for narrative, 
imagery, symbolic meaning, and breaking the rules. Of those, both illusion and revolu- 
tion are strongly associated with the nodes. 
* Fellini had the nodal axis in the 3rd and 9th houses, signs of Venus and Mars. 
Pre- and post-exchange, Venus and Mars alternate positions to join Rahu in the 
3rd, a house reflecting honed artistic talent. Many of Fellini’s films contain ele- 
ments of surrealism, and the meanings of some images have been debated by 
cineastes for decades. Ketu in the 9th house twice invokes philosophy and spir- 
ituality — first, because it’s the 9th, and second, because it’s Ketu, “the headless 


One” which implies surrender, or absence of ego. Ketu is at home in Aries, with 
whose lord Mars it shares some affinities. Fellini underwent Freudian analysis 
after his bout with depression and later became interested in Jungian symbolism, 
which likely informed his use of surreal imagery. At one time he became friends 
with Carlos Castaneda, hoping to do a movie about a spiritual hero, the yaqui 
sorcerer Don Juan of Castaneda’s series. 


“ Coppola has a Kala Sarpa Yoga that bisects his chart through the 5th and 11th 
houses, in signs of Mars and Venus. Themes of children and creativity, group 
work and income are likely. Ketu, a malefic, is strong in the 5th. Coppola’s oldest 
son died in a bizarre boating accident caused by Ryan O’Neal’s son. Ketu’s dis- 
positor Mars and Saturn mutually aspect each other. Their struggle invokes war 
of a kind, a prime example of which is Apocalypse Now with its cocktail of ad- 
venture, psychological parable, and surrealism in the jungle. Another form of war 
(with society) is organized crime, on which the Godfather series dwells. Nodes in 
the 11th, aside from reflecting an eclectic social circle, also indicate irregularities 
in income. 


* Scorsese has the nodal axis running across the horizon, with Rahu closely con- 
junct the ascendant, and Ketu with the Moon in the 7th. Aside from his passion- 
ate embrace of violent themes, Scorsese’s innovative style includes lots of slow- 
motion, freeze frames and long tracking shots. The Moon and Ketu are doubly 
affected by Saturn, which both disposits and aspects them. The ephemeral 
Moon and the Mars-like Ketu in the 7th is a poor prognosis for marital tranquility; 
Scorsese has been married five times. The Rahuvian-type individual is notoriously 
reluctant to be reined into conventional relationships. 


Venus and the 3rd house 


Venus is a general significator for artistry, while the 3rd house represents among other 
things both physical performance and mastery of literary or musical technique. In all 
three directors’ charts, Venus plays a dynamic role in the 3rd house. 


* Fellini's Venus exchanges with Mars to occupy its own sign in the 3rd. When he 
was young, Fellini loved to sketch, perform puppet shows, and draw caricatures. 
In the early part of his career, he wrote for a humor magazine and contributed 
jokes for comedies before turning his hand to writing his own screenplays. 


* Coppola’s Venus occupies the 3rd in a friendly sign, supported by benefic 
Jupiter. Coppola too was involved in puppet theatre, and learned to play the tuba 
so well that he won a scholarship to a military academy. He studied scriptwriting 
at university, wrote several screenplays and one of his three Oscars was awarded 
for his role as screenwriter. 

* Scorsese’s Venus exchanges with Mars to occupy its own sign in the 3rd. 
Although Scorsese has been single-mindedly focused on film as his metier, a 
review of his work reveals a great appreciation for music: he shot the Michael 
Jackson video Bad; his movie The Last Waliz was about The Band; he shot a 7- 
part TV documentary on The Blues; No Direction Home was a documentary on 
the life of Bob Dylan; Shine a Light covered the tail end of a Rolling Stones tour; 
and Living in the Material World was a documentary about the life of George 
Harrison. 


Summary 


To recap, these three directors share several common astrological factors, most 
important of which is the exchange between 3rd and 4th lords that results, one way 

or another, in Venus playing a role in the 3rd. This relationship to film is captured in the 
words of Martin Scorsese: “Cinema began with a physical relationship between celluloid 
and the artists who handled it, and came to know it the way a lover knows every inch of 
his beloved’s body. No matter where the cinema goes, we can't afford to lose sight of its 
beginnings.” 


Muhammad Ali: Noble warrior 


“I'd like to be remembered as a man who won the heavyweight title three times, who 
was humorous, and who treated everyone right,” Ali wrote before his death. “As a man 
who never looked down on those who looked up to him. As a man who tried to unite hu- 
mankind through faith and love.” 


For a boxer, a heavyweight fighter in the most brutal of sports, this last statement seems 
ironic, and yet Ali’s life was full of ironies. It was perhaps his genius that he transcended 
so many of them, for both our entertainment and enlightenment. 


Muhammad Ali was born 17 January 1942, at 6:35 PM in Louisville, Kentucky, as 
Cassius Clay. The elder of two sons, he was raised as a Baptist in a middle-class neigh- 
borhood, his father a mural painter, his mother a domestic, his great-grandfather an 
Irishman who'd married a black girl. School never interested him, but when his bicycle 
was stolen, a policeman taught him how to box to defend what was his, and Ali found 
his destiny. 


18h35, 17 Jan 1942 


Louisville, Kentucky 


His chart reveals multiple yogas, chief of which is Ruchaka Yoga formed by Mars in Aries 
in the 10th, where it also gains dig bala. This is a classic signature of a fighter or warrior 
of the kshatriya class. 


The Moon/Venus conjunction in the 7th forms Raja Yoga via 1st and 4th lords, and 
Dhana Yoga via 1st and 11th lords. However, Ali’s lagnesh Moon is dark and therefore 
weak. Although Ali had a massive public following and generated major earnings as a 
prizefighter, for several years he was vilified for his political views, and stripped of his 
boxing license in his peak earning years. 


The Mars/Saturn conjunction in the 10th forms Raja Yoga via 5th and 7th lords. Saturn 
is retrograde, but its debilitation complicates the yoga. Although Ali won the heavyweight 
boxing title, he was subsequently stripped of it, and later obliged to win it back. 

The Moon/Sun conjunction forms another Dhana Yoga via 1st and 2nd lords, again di- 
minished somewhat by the weak Moon. 


The Sun/Mercury conjunction forms Budhaditya Yoga. Although Ali did poorly in school 


and later confessed he should have applied himself more, he had a native wit and a facil- 
ity for “trash talk” that delighted his fans and infuriated his opponents. 


Four planets — Sun, Moon, Mercury and Venus — form Pravrajya Yoga. Typically consid- 
ered a spiritual yoga, its 7th house cluster is perhaps what made Ali an emissary — of 
America, of Islam, of boxing itself. 


His fully-qualified Neecha Bhanga Raja Yoga defies the odds. Many a debilitated planet 
finds relief through one or more stabilizing factors, but rarely do we see all four sources 
of relief come to its rescue: 
(1) The debilitated planet (Saturn) must be associated with or aspected by its 
dispositor (Mars.) Check: Mars is in Aries with Saturn. 
(2) The dispositor (Mars) of the debilitated planet (Saturn) must occupy a kendra. 
Check: Mars is in the 10th. 
(3) For the sign (Aries) in which the planet (Saturn) is debilitated, the planet (Sun) 
that gets exalted in that same sign (Aries) should be in a kendra. Check: the Sun 
occupies the 7th. 
(4) For the sign (Libra) in which the debilitated planet (Saturn) is exalted, its lord 
(Venus) must be in a kendra. Check: Venus is in the 7th. 
Reinforcing the strength of that Neecha Bhanga Raja Yoga, note that all four conditions 
above occur from both the lagna and chandralagna! 


Much of Ali’s life is mirrored in the strengths and weaknesses of his chart. First, he was a 
fighter. His powerful Mars in the 10th aspects both the ascendant (body & persona), and 
its own sign Scorpio in the 5th (mental qualities, showmanship). It’s also in kKendras from 
both the Sun and Moon. 


As a boxer, he was known for his superior hand speed, superb reflexes and constant 
movement. He was in perpetual motion, doing the “Ali shuffle” and dancing around the 
ring, making his opponents look like fools as they ran after him, throwing wild punches 
in hopes of connecting. Former heavyweight champion Floyd Patterson said, “It’s very 
hard to hit a moving target, and [Ali] moved all the time, with such grace, three minutes 
of every round for 15 rounds. He never stopped. It was extraordinary.” 


Yet when he stood his ground, his fists seemed to come out of nowhere with blinding 
speed, often in a killer combination, of which he had several. Holding his hands low, 
he’d lash out with a quick, cutting left jab from an unpredictable angle, sometimes three 
to five rapid-fire jabs at his opponents’ eyes to create a blur in his face so he wouldn't 
see the right hand coming behind it. 


No matter what his opponents heard about Ali, they didn’t realize how fast he was until 
they got in the ring with him. And then they never forgot it. His punches produced ap- 
proximately 1,000 pounds of force. As one fighter said, “You didn’t realize how much 
they hurt you until it was too late.” 


His Mars/Saturn conjunction is itself a symbol of brute-force physics: momentum versus 
inertia. Ali was able to take incredible punishment, and he could deal it out, sometimes 


accused of inflicting cruelty upon his opponents. 


In the Rumble in the Jungle fight with George Foreman, Ali violated all conventional 
boxing wisdom by retreating to the ropes — the now-infamous “Dope-a-Rope” strategy — 
and allowed his opponent to pummel him at will, meanwhile covering up, clinching and 
counter-punching as he verbally taunted Foreman. Reflecting on the fight, Foreman later 
said, “I thought Ali was just one more knockout victim until, about the seventh round, 

| hit him hard to the jaw and he held me and whispered in my ear: ‘That all you got, 
George?’ | realized then that this ain’t what | thought it was.” 


In the Thrilla in Manila fight with Joe Frazier, Ali again used the Rope-a-Dope strategy, 
absorbing relentless punishment from Frazier for the first 11 rounds, after which he went 
on the attack and conducted “target practice” on Frazier’s head. After the 14th round, 
Frazier’s coach refused to let his half-blinded fighter continue, and Ali was declared win- 
ner by technical knockout. Later, Frazier said of the fight, “Man, | hit him with punches 
that would bring down the walls of a city.” And Ali, who’d also been on the verge of 
throwing in the towel, conceded, “It was like death. The closest thing to dying that | 
know.” 


Doesn't that sound like a Mars/Saturn conjunction? Nobody wins that war. 


Aside from his fists, Ali also had a wicked mouth, and developed a highly-aggressive 
form of “trash talk” to goad and humiliate his opponents. Sonny Liston, whom he chal- 
lenged for his first heavyweight championship, had a criminal past and mob connec- 
tions, but Ali dubbed him “the big ugly bear”. Ali said, “Liston even smells like a bear. 
After | beat him I’m going to donate him to the zoo.” 


Ernie Terrell annoyed Ali by calling him Cassius Clay, which Ali considered his “slave 
name.” In the ring he taunted Terrell with every punch, saying, “What’s my name, Uncle 
Tom? What’s my name?” Having admitted pre-fight that he wanted to torture Terrell, that 
a clean knockout was too good for him, Ali made good on his threat. Despite dominat- 
ing the fight for the second half, he dragged it out to the full 15 rounds. One sportscaster 
later said, “It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of 
cruelty.” 


When he fought Joe Frazier, Ali called him the son of a sharecropper, and a “dumb tool 
of the white establishment.” He said, “Frazier is too ugly, and too dumb, to be champ.” 
He called him a gorilla, and brandished a rubber ape in his face. In one pre-fight inter- 
view, Ali threw so many taunts at Frazier that the other fighter jumped him on camera 
and wrestled him to the floor. 


Although Ali went on to defeat Frazier in Manila, sports analysts said the fight was so 
brutal that it ruined both men. Frazier would forever talk thereafter with pride about how 
he’d contributed to Ali’s Parkinson’s Disease, and he probably did. 

Although a born fighter, Ali was also an admirable proponent of his adopted Islamic faith, 
a true jihadist. The gross (shtoola) form of jihad is war with others; the subtle (sook- 
shma) form is war with the demons inside oneself. Although he became a face of Amer- 


ica in the world, he knew all too well that America had its own demons. 


The Pravrajya Yoga has an influence here; the yoga is spiritual but the 7th house invokes 
confrontation and cooperation. He became an ambassador of three things — American 
civil rights, boxing, and Islam — to all of which he did credit. 


The Mars/Saturn conjunction also plays a role in this war of principles. The powerful 
Mars works for its star-lord Ketu, unaspected in the 8th house. Here Ketu in turn acts for 
its star-lord Saturn, and we are back to this on-and-off (MA/SA) counterpunching with 
respect to the 10th house of career, and the 8th of trauma and reversal. These became 
themes in Ali’s life. 


Although debilitated, retrograde Saturn aspects its own house, the 7th, place of relation- 
ships — sexual, social, business and war. Thus it played out in conflicted marriages, prize 
fights and a form of international diplomacy. 


Saturn is in the nakshatra of the Sun, for whom it works. The Sun is atma, the soul. 
Saturn is sadhana, the self-sacrifice and duty. Sun in the 7th invokes Dhana, Budha- 
ditya and Pravrajya yogas, giving wealth, intelligence and a spiritual soul. 


Spiritual aspects of Ali’s life included his Baptist upbringing, his early (age 18) conversion 
to Islam, his friendship with spiritual and political mentor Malcolm X, and his affiliation 
with Elijah Muhamnmad, leader of America’s Nation of Islam. 


Marriage was also a battlefield for Ali. Four planets in the 7th house, four marriages. The 
7th lord Saturn is debilitated and associated with a powerful Mars. Ali had a cavalier atti- 
tude toward women and believed they should be punished if they disobeyed. 


Saturn’s aspect on both the Moon and Venus are “passion combos,” as Hart de Fouw 
calls them, the libidinous nature of Shani pressing upon the manas and the senses, the 
aesthetics and the urge to merge. 


Venus in the 7th is karako bhavo nashto, a situation when the karaka of a thing is found 
in the house of that same thing. Venus associates with Mercury and is aspected by 
Jupiter. It also associates with the Sun and the dark Moon (malefic in this phase), and is 
aspected by Saturn. So, this is shaky rather than steady. 


In the dasha sequence, we must always note the star-lords of the period lords, for the 
latter are just employees working for the boss who owns the nakshatra. 


Ali was born in Moon dasha. The Moon is swa nakshatra (its own star), so it works for 
itself. Lagnesh Moon in the 7th invokes outreach, travel, conflict and relationships. But 
Ali saw only the last three years of Moon dasha. 


Then came Mars dasha, age three to 10. Mars is strong and works for Ketu, who 
provokes crises and reversals and frustration. Meanwhile Mars also labors on his own 
behalf — commanding center stage in the 10th, stimulating the body and the persona, 
cultivating an aggressive showmanship. 


Rahu dasha (1952-1970, age 10-28) works for its sign-lord the Sun, who occupies the 
7th. Rahu also works for its star-lord Venus, retrograde in the 7th. The Sun and Venus 


are both involved in several yogas from the 7th. This focuses an 18-year dasha on 7th 
house themes of relationships and “war”. 


Ali began learning to box at age 12, in Rahu-Rahu. He had his professional debut in 
Rahu-Mercury. As bhukti lord, Mercury works for the Moon in the 7th, while Mercury 
itself is in the 7th. He converted to Islam in the same bhukti. Mercury’s not considered a 
spiritual planet, yet in Ali's chart it’s associated with or aspected by all three sattvic plan- 
ets — Sun, Moon and Jupiter. 


At age 22, during Rahu-Venus, Ali fought Sonny Liston for the heavyweight title. In the 
same bhukti, they fought a rematch, and Ali won both times. During its bhukti, Venus 
works for its star-lord Mars. Mars is the karaka of the warrior, and the strongest planet in 
the chart. 


By the mid-Sixties, the Vietnam War was at its peak. Previously deferred from the draft, 
Ali was called up but refused to go, declaring himself a conscientious objector. Not only 
that, he used his sound bite to protest the entire plight of blacks in America. 


“lL ain’t got no quarrel with them Viet Cong,” he famously said. “They never called me 
nigger, never lynched me, didn’t put no dogs on me, didn’t rob me of my nationality, 
rape and kill my mother and father.” 


He was running Rahu-Sun. The Sun in its own nakshatra works for itself alone. The Sun 
is the atma, or soul. It is also a kshatriya planet posited in a kendra where it manifests as 
leadership. It can also indicate a man of principles. 


Ali was the most explicitly black athlete of the last 60 years, and the 
most political, and it remains astounding. He surrendered three years in 
the prime of his career and risked imprisonment over what he believed 
was an unjust war. He risked life as the biggest athlete on earth to tell 
the US government that Vietnam was an atrocity, and so was America’s 
treatment of its black people. [Bruce Arthur, The Toronto Star, 4 June 
2016] 


Ali was fined and sentenced, released on bail, but stripped of his passport, boxing titles 
and license. He did not fight from March 1967 to October 1970, more than three years 
in the very prime of his physical life. This banishment ran all of Rahu-Moon and Rahu- 
Mars. 


The lagnesh Moon is swa nakshatra, and here we have Ali’s dark night of the soul, 
where he has lost contact with the public, and indeed a part of himself. Mars works for 
Ketu, who occupies the 8th of reversals and represents Saturn blocking Mars in the 10th 


Jupiter dasha (1970-1986, age 28-44) works for its star-lord the Moon, who also occu- 
pies the 7th. Jupiter also acts for itself, retrograde in the 11th. Jupiter’s aspect on the 
Moon produces stability in this 16-year dasha. 


In Jupiter-Jupiter, a federal court ruling ordered Ali’s boxing license reinstated. Aside 
from its benefic nature, Jupiter rules the 9th of the judiciary and occupies the 11th house 


of income, which resumed as he started fighting again. 


Ali fought Joe Frazier in March 1971, and Frazier handed him his first professional 
defeat. This was just a month before Ali’s Saturn return to that same obstructive place in 
the 10th. 


In Jupiter-Saturn, Ali lost again to Ken Norton, who broke his jaw. Briefly considering 
retirement, Ali came back to beat Norton, and then went on to win his second fight with 
Frazier. 


In Jupiter-Mercury, Ali was back in top form. He beat George Foreman to win the heavy- 
weight championship, then fought another grudge match with Joe Frazier. The three 
fignts between Ali and Frazier are considered the most brutal series in boxing history. 


In Jupiter-Ketu, Ali’s star began to fade, the result perhaps of too many punches to the 
head. His long-time doctor resigned when Ali refused to retire. 


In Jupiter-Venus, Ali lost his title to Leon Spinks, fought him again to win it back, then 
announced his retirement. Around this time he began to struggle with vocal stutters and 
trembling hands. 


He lost to Larry Holmes in Jupiter-Sun, a fight that some commentators called an 
“autopsy,” and almost certainly contributed to Ali’s Parkinson’s. One more loss to Trevor 
Berbick in Jupiter-Moon, and Ali hung up his gloves for good. 


Saturn dasha (1986-2005, age 44-63) works for its star-lord the Sun occupying the 
7th. Saturn labors for itself in the 10th. Traditional enemies in mutual kendras spell hard 
times, physically in this case, since both malefics afflict the lagnesh Moon. 


Now in obvious decline, Ali’s diagnosis of Parkinson’s Disease was made public. But he 
made a shift and became an unofficial ambassador of peace, traveling around America 
and the world for religious, charitable and political campaigns. He aligned himself with 
Michael J. Fox to raise awareness and fund research into a cure for Parkinson’s, and 
marched in protest to support Native American rights. He negotiated the release of 
hostages from lraq, convinced Kenya to boycott the Moscow Olympics, and talked a 
suicidal man off a 9th-floor ledge. 


Mercury dasha (2005- ) works for the Moon in the 7th. It also works for itself in the 7th. 
As 7th house occupants, that makes them both maraka planets. Although the Moon is 
lagnesh, it’s dark and afflicted, and this can manifest as a disturbed manas, the operat- 
ing system of the body. 
To judge the manas, examine three factors: lord of the 4th, the 4th house, and the 
manas-karaka Moon. Problems arise under influences from Saturn or Rahu. 

(1) Lord of the 4th is Venus, influenced equally by benefics and malefics. Among 


them is the aspect from Saturn, who also disposits Venus. Two strikes against 
the manas. 


(2) The 4th house itself is unoccupied, but aspected by two malefics, one of 
which is Saturn. Another strike against. 


(3) The Moon is very dark, both aspected and disposited by Saturn. Three strikes 
against the manas. 
Overall, this is not dire, but the fact that the Moon is also lagnesh aggravates the whole 
prognosis for health. 


If we examine the nakshatra lords of the navagraha, we see the Moon is the star-lord 
for three different planets — the Moon itself, Jupiter and Mercury. So when the periods of 
Moon, Jupiter and Mercury run, they all give results for that Moon. This means that for 
30 years of his life, Ali was primarily manifesting the qualities and attributes of his Moon. 


This places great focus on the Moon, and begs we examine its nakshatra — Shravana — 
one of three ruled by the Moon. The themes that reflect most brightly from the facets of 
this jeweled star are: 
* Studied physical movements (the Ali Shuffle, the lightning combination 
punches), “Fly like a butterfly, sting like a bee.” 
* A sharp intellect (critical of the Vietnam War and American civil rights), “I’ve been 
in jail for 400 years.” 
* The gift of gab, (he could speak better than any athlete before or since), “| am 
America, the part you won’t recognize, but get used to me: black, confident, 
cocky; my name, not yours; my religion, not yours; my goals, my own.” 
* Gossip and trash talk (he verbally provoked all of his opponents), “Liston smells 
like a bear, and after | beat him |’ll donate him to the Zoo.” 
* A disciple of Vishnu the Preserver (he asked to be remembered as a man who 
tried to unite humankind), “I don’t have to be what you want me to be. I’m free to 
be who | want.” 
Ali was free to do what he wanted and, against physical, legal and political obstacles, 
he made of himself a man the whole world came to admire. He was a fighter of multiple 
dimensions. Nelson Mandela considered Ali his hero. We all should. The principles he 
stood for, 50 years ago, are even more important and praiseworthy than ever. 


Carrie Fisher: Postcards from the edge of the galaxy 


When Carrie Fisher entered the public consciousness like a shooting star, playing 
Princess Leia in the first Star Wars movie, she was already a showbiz veteran. At age 13, 
she’d shared a nightclub act with her mother Debbie Reynolds, was in the chorus of a 
musical when she was 15, and by age 19 had made her movie debut as a nymphet in 
Shampoo. 


Although she went on to reprise her Princess Leia role in several more movies in the 
Star Wars series, Fisher also appeared in another 40 films. And yet she is perhaps more 
highly regarded as a writer — publicly, for her autobiographical novels, eg, Postcards 
from the Edge, and within the Hollywood film industry as a “script doctor.” 


Fisher and her brother Todd were born to famous parents — actress Debbie Reynolds 
and singer Eddie Fisher. But her parents divorced when she was two years old, Eddie 
Fisher leaving Debbie Reynolds for Elizabeth Taylor. Carrie retreated into a world of liter- 
ature and became known within her family as “the bookworm.” 


By her 20s, because/despite of her Star Wars fame, her life was in perpetual crisis. She 
had a serious drug problem from age 22 to 28, and ended up in rehab after an over- 
dose. Following her recovery, she plunged into writing, and for relaxation indulged com- 
pulsively in shopping and traveling. 

To her great credit, she publicly acknowledged her addictions, her battle with bipolar 
disorder, and her obsessive-compulsive behaviors. She became a poster child of trans- 
parency, whether through her writing or public appearances, meanwhile being a de- 
voted single mother until her death by cardiac arrest at age 60. 


Carrie Fisher was born on October 21, 1956, at 12:49 pm in Burbank, California. 


Upon inspection, one of the most notable features of Fisher’s chart is that it contains 
two Parivartana Yogas, something found in only 3% of all charts. 


The first occurs between Mars in Aquarius in the 2nd house, and Saturn in Scorpio in 


the 11th house. This is a category called Maha Parivartana Yoga, involving the sign ex- 
change, or mutual reception, of two positive house lords. (The positive houses: 1st, 2nd, 


4th, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th, 11th.) This particular combination of house lords — 2nd and 11th 
— typically bequeaths positive outcomes re family status, nurture, education, wealth and 
powers of speech. 


However, since the 2nd lord Satum falls exactly (40’ partile) on the nodal axis, some of 
these very themes are derailed by the disruptive nature of Rahu and Ketu. Thus we see 
seeds of misfortune within the family, as played out in parental divorce, and the ever- 
after financial problems for her mother. Here too we see the potential for the substance 
abuse that dogged Fisher’s life. 


For any two planets in exchange, we can try to identify a control planet, the one most 
empowered to swing outcomes in its favor. While Mars is ordinary and aspected by two 
benefics (Jupiter and Venus), Saturn is ordinary and influenced by benefic Moon and the 
malefic nodes. Therefore, Mars is better placed, and will thus bend life in favor of its oc- 
cupancy and rulerships, ie, through powers of expression, accomplished mother, prop- 
erty, and income. 


The second of these exchange patterns occurs between Venus in Leo in the 8th house, 
and the Sun in Libra in the 10th house. This is a category called Dainya Parivartana 
Yoga, involving mutual reception between a trikasthana lord (6th, 8th, or 12th) with any 
other house lord. Typically, this particular exchange of house lords - 8th and 10th - 
creates irregularities in one’s social status or career, but also public crises, traumas and 
transformations. 


In this case, the control planet is not readily obvious. Venus is ordinary, associated 

with benefic Jupiter but aspected by malefics Mars and Satum. The Sun is in mixed 
condition, debilitated but with dig bala, and under no influence from any other planet. 
Because the Sun enjoys no other yogas, while Venus participates in a Dharma-Karma 
Adhipati Yoga with Mars (5th and 4th lords, respectively), we might grant marginal con- 
trol to Venus. Therefore, it skews life in favor of its occupancy and rulerships, ie, through 
crises and traumas, but fulfilled through creative work and social activism. 


Other yogas reinforce some of these themes. The DKA Yoga of lagnesh Saturn and 
exalted kendra lord Moon in mutual opposition across the 5/11 axis supports creative 
work and financial reward. The Raja Yoga formed by 7th lord Moon joined with Ketu in a 
trikona is suggestive of creative consulting. 


Fisher was involved in several high-profile romances during her life: Harrison Ford during 
the filming of the first Star Wars movie; Dan Akroyd of Saturday Night Live, wnom she 
almost married; singer/songwriter Paul Simon to whom she was married only a year but 
remained friends thereafter; and the father of her only daughter, who left her for another 
man. 


Passion combinations are pronounced in her chart. Carnal Mars aspects both the Moon 
and Venus. Lustful Saturn aspects both the Moon and Venus. The 7th lord Moon on the 
nodal axis invites unusual partnerships. The relationship Karaka Venus in the 8th house 
challenges conventional expectations. 


Substance abuse is usually seen through the 2nd house. It is occupied by malefic Mars, 
in Parivartana with 2nd lord Saturn, which is exactly conjunct Rahu associated with 
drugs and poisons. Although the 2nd house is aspected by Jupiter and Venus, Jupiter 
itself is an indication of excess, while its lordship of the 12th is a significator of self- 
undoing. 


Fisher’s drug problems began shortly after the onset of her Rahu dasha in 1977. The 
nodes are powerful proxies for planets with whom they associate, or by whom they are 
aspected or disposited. In Fisher’s case, Rahu is associated with Saturn, aspected by 
the Moon and disposited by Mars. If we look for common ground among those three, 
we’re back to the Parivartana Yoga discussed above, with all the attendant ramifica- 
tions. 


It’s public knowledge that Fisher suffered mental illness. In 1997, she had a psychotic 
break, tied to her long battle with bi-polar disorder and a change of meds that threw her 
into an allergic reaction. After ranting and hallucinating for a week, she spent half a year 
in outpatient recovery. 


Her mental state deteriorated following the onset of her Jupiter dasha. In its periods, 
Jupiter gives results for its star-lord the Sun, debilitated in Parivartana with Venus as 
mentioned earlier. With the Sun weak and both primary benefics in the 8th house, rever- 
sals and traumas unfolded, with one step back for every two steps forward. In the D-6 
Shashtamsha (reflecting health), Jupiter is ordinary in the 12th house, a dusthana. In the 
D-8 Ashtamsha (reflecting trauma), Jupiter is exalted but in the dusthana 3rd, aspected 
by the nodes. 


Mental illness of one kind or another is often attributed to a disturbance of the manas, 
that part of our “primitive” mind responsible for sense perception, glandular function, 
moods and sensitivities. The manas is in turn linked astrologically to the 4th house, its 
lord, and the Moon. The influences upon them from Saturn, with its anxiety, depression 
and isolation, and/or Rahu, with its disruption and crazy-making quality, are the two key 
variables. 


Fisher’s 4th house is unoccupied, but the 4th lord Mars is in Aquarius ruled by Saturn. 
In addition, peculiar to this chart, Mars is in Parivartana with Saturn, which accentuates 
their linkage. Furthermore, once we allow Mars to exchange signs in our mind’s eye, it 
now occupies the same sign as Rahu, which has a destabilizing effect. The Moon, al- 
though both exalted and full, is aspected by Saturn and lies on the nodal axis where it is 
further destabilized by Rahu. 


Despite these issues, Fisher was a consummate writer. The 2nd house of “voice” (some- 
thing to say) is highly energized by its Parivartana Yoga and benefic aspects. The 5th 
house of creativity is occupied by a full exalted Moon, its power magnified by the nodal 


axis. And Mercury is exalted in the 9th house of publishing and media work. 


As per KP theory, dasha and bhukti lords primarily deliver results for their nakshatra 
lords. It’s worth noting that a third of Fisher’s planets occupy a Sun nakshatra. There- 
fore, within the cycle of bhuktis, this star-lord influence of a debilitated Sun puts the ego 
under stress roughly a third of the time. Since the Sun is also involved in a second Pari- 
vartana with Venus, this provokes an oscillation between professional success and self- 
doubt, resulting in crises, mental trauma and repeated breakdowns. 


Fisher also suffered obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), an anxiety disorder in which 
people have unwanted and repeated thoughts, feelings, ideas, sensations (obsessions), 
or behaviors that make them feel driven to do something (compulsions). At the heart of 
OCD is some sort of fixation. Fisher’s chart contains seven planets in fixed signs. 


From the Chandralagna point of view, we can analyse the manas again. The 4th house 
(from the Moon) is occupied by Jupiter and Venus, but aspected by fearful Saturn. The 
Ath lord Sun is debilitated in the dusthana 6th (from the Moon). And the Moon, as we 
saw earlier, is under attack from both Saturn and Rahu, the two major contributors to 
mental malaise. 


Fisher died on December 27, 2016, while she was running Saturn-Mercury-Saturn. As 
owner of the 2nd house, dasha lord Saturn is a full maraka. As the occupant (or owner) 
of the 11th house from a moveable ascendant, it is also a badhaka — a tormentor, or 
source of obstacles and distress. And since Saturn is swa nakshatra, it works only to 
manifest its own significations and results. 


Bhukti lord Mercury acts primarily on behalf of its star-lord the Moon, which as lord of 
the 7th is also a maraka for this chart. Thus both dasha and bhukti serve to activate the 
marakas for this chart, which are in mutual aspect on the nodal axis, reflecting the pos- 
sibility of abrupt reversals for which the nodes are notorious. 


A remarkable instance of synchronicity by transit was also evident at the time of Fisher’s 
death. Saturn had completed its second return, while Mars was on the verge of com- 
pleting its 32nd. Both planets were back in Scorpio and Aquarius, respectively, and 
therefore both were in Parivartana again. And since both Mars and Saturn are marakas 
for this chart, their recurring mutual reception was an echo of their natal configuration. 
Whereas natal Saturn had been conjunct Rahu within less than a degree, transiting Mars 
and Ketu were conjunct within a quarter of a degree. It was as if the two marakas had 
dived into a death star and come out the other side. 


But as Yoda said in one of the Star Wars movies, “Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice 
for those around you who transform into the Force.” 


Helter Skelter: Malefics unbound in the Manson Family 


The Manson Family murders in the summer of ‘69 seared a hole in the American psyche. 
The Family was a cult of hippie nihilists led by Charles Manson, a frustrated singer- 
songwriter on the fringe of the LA music industry. In what was to become one of the first 
acts of social-class terrorism to date, Manson and his followers committed a series of 
nine murders, including that of actress Sharon Tate, at four locations over a period of five 
weeks. 


Manson believed the murders would help precipitate an impending apocalyptic race 
war, which he described in his own version of the lyrics to the Beatles’ song “Helter 
Skelter.” The seven-member Family comprised three men (Charles Manson, Bobby 
Beausoleil, and Charles “Tex” Watson) as well as four women (Susan Atkins, Lynette 
“Squeaky” Fromme, Patricia Krenwinkel, and Leslie Van Houten.) 


Malefics at large 

In Vedic astrology, planets can be classed as natural benefics with the power to do 
good, or natural malefics with the power to do harm. Although there are caveats, the 
benefics are the Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus. The malefics are the Sun, Mars, 
Saturn and the two nodes. 


Malefic signatures are stamped on every member of the Manson Family, several of 
whom share common themes. Before we look at those patterns, let’s quickly review the 
malefics and their nature: 


* The Sun is the least of the malefics, considered cruel, with a capacity to burn, 
but also to command, even at the behest of a twisted ego. 


* Mars is aggressive and violent, with the fierce temperament of a warrior, and a 
capacity to turn rage into criminal action. 


* Saturn is regarded as the prime malefic, in that it reflects depression and fear, 
morbidity and sociopathy, imprisonment and death. 


* Rahu is Saturn-like, associated with alienation, strangeness, anti-social tenden- 
cies and a lust for forbidden experience. 


* Ketu is Mars-like, and is considered “the headless one” lacking reason, restraint 
or an instinct for self-preservation. 


It’s a Family affair 


When we analyze the charts of the Manson Family, several astrological themes emerge 
among its members: 


Table 1: Key astrological factors in Manson Family members 


Astrological factor Members affected 
A debilitated Sun a 


A destabilized Moon (often at hands of Saturn) a oe 


Dominance of kshatriya planets (Sun & Mars) 


An aggravated Mars 


As we'll see, no single factor influences every member of the group. And yet the com- 
posite influence of malefics is strikingly common. 


Charles Manson, 12 November 1934, 16:40 EST, Cincinnati, Ohio. 


Charles Manson 
16h40, 12 Nov 1934 
Cincinnati, Ohio 


Ve 2521 
Su 2 


Bobby Beausolei 
07h21, 06 Nov 1947 
Santa Barbara, CA 


Charles “Tex” Watson, 2 December 1945, 21:05 CST, Dallas, Texas. 


Charles “Tex” Watson 
21h05, 02 Dec 1945 
Dallas, Texas 


Susan Atkins 
01h03, 07 May 1948 


San Gabriel, California 
| Ma o230 


05h37, 22 Oct 1948 
Santa Monica, Califomia 


Ve 25.18 
$4 102; 
MeR woz 
JuUce19 =|Maiox2 |Suas 
Ke 1202 


Patricia Krenwinkel, 3 December 1947, 04:41 PST, Los Angeles, California. 


Los Angeles, Catfornia 


_ Patricia Krenwinkel 
7 04n41, 03 Dec 1947 


Me cose 
Ve 1025 = | JU 1542 
Su 1722 


Leske Van Houten 
05h51, 23 Aug 1949 
Los Angeles, California 


The Sun also falls 


Out of the seven members of the Manson Family, three have the Sun debilitated in Libra. 
There’s a one-in-12 chance to have a debilitated Sun, so in a group of seven people 
we’d expect no more than one, yet here are three: 


* Charles Manson was the instigator who came up with the plans and sent his 
followers to do the killing. Although his Sun in the 7th house is strengthened by 
the presence of Jupiter, Mercury and a strong Venus, it is also aspected by a 
strong Saturn in Capricorn. 


* Bobby Beausoleil committed one murder and participated in others. His Sun is 
in the 12th house and aspected by a debilitated Mars in Cancer. 


* Although Squeaky Fromme participated in none of the Family murders, she was 
a devotee of the Manson cult and, years later, made an unsuccessful attempt to 
assassinate President Gerald Ford. Her 2nd house Sun is associated with Ketu, 
and aspected by Saturn. 


All three find their debilitated Suns further destabilized by the association or aspect 

of malefics Mars, Saturn or Ketu. This suggests almost half of the group, their leader 
included, suffered from some sort of ego deficiency that justified violence as a form of 
compensation. 


The demonic nodes 


The Moon’s nodes are described as chaya graha (shadow planets) because they 
denote the literal points across which shadows cast eclipses. Mythologically, they are 
two portions of the same body, that of an asura who crashed a party thrown by the 
devas. When the demon tried to drink the soma (nectar of immortality) being served, 
Lord Vishnu chopped it in two, but because it had already ingested some of the nectar, 
the two nodes Rahu and Ketu gained immortality to torment the Sun and Moon with 
eclipses ever after. 


Four of the Manson family have angular nodes: Manson, Beausoleil, Atkins and Kren- 
winkel. The nodes can only be angular, succedent or cadent, so in a family of seven 
we’d expect two with angular nodes, yet here there are four. Far more remarkably, three 
of the family (all of the men) have a Kala Sarpa Yoga. 


Kala Sarpa occurs when all seven of the visible planets are contained within seven signs 
or less, effectively restricted to one half of the chart as delineated by the opposing axis 
of the moon’s nodes. Watson has a relatively “pure” example of a Kala Sarpa, since all 
of his other planets are truly contained within the nodal axis. Manson and Beausoleil 
deviate from this high standard since certain of their planets exceed the node’s degree 
without leaving the sign occupied. 


* Manson's Kala Sarpa has all of his planets on the west side of the chart, from 
Cancer in the 4th to Capricorn in the 10th. This places emphasis on the nodal 
dispositors Moon and Saturn. Satum is powertul in its own sign where it teams 
up with malefic Rahu to severely destabilize the Moon. Thus Manson, both un- 
happy and deranged, sought fulfillment by wreaking death on those he perceived 
to be part of the establishment. 


* Beausoleil’s Kala Sarpa has all of his planets in the south half of the chart, from 
Taurus in the 7th to Scorpio in the 1st. This highlights nodal dispositors Venus 
and Mars. Venus sits on an exaggerated nodal axis (Rahu is debilitated in Taurus, 
Ketu exalted in Scorpio). Mars is debilitated and associated with Saturn. Charm 
was Beausoleil’s /aissez-passer but his propensity for violence was on a short 
leash. 
*Watson’s Kala Sarpa has all of his planets in the northeast portion of the chart, 
from Gemini in the 12th to Sagittarius in the 6th. Mercury and Jupiter thus be- 
come the control planets for the nodal axis. Mercury is afflicted only by the Sun, 
while Jupiter is aspected by Saturn. He committed five murders and directly par- 
ticipated in several others. 
In short, a Kala Sarpa Yoga can reflect an extreme form of personality, with a tendency 
for bigotry, conspiracy theories, fanaticism and revolution as a cure for what ails society. 
This was essentially Manson’s message: start a race war that would transform America. 
Beausoleil and Watson were his willing dupes and, with all three men in agreement, it fa- 
Cilitated getting the women of the Family aligned toward the same goal. 


The dark side of the Moon 


The Moon represents the emotional mind, the part of our limbic system that “thinks” like 
an animal, with its instincts, primal desires and antipathies. In six of the Family mem- 
bers, the Moon is afflicted by Mars, Saturn or the nodes. Four of them are particularly 
destabilized: 
* Manson’s waxing Moon in the 10th is associated with a strong Saturn and 
Rahu. The north node is generally Saturn-like with the potential to take on other 
influences; Ketu is Mars-like with options. Both nodes function like lawyers, tak- 
ing on clients by whom they are conjoined, aspected or disposited. If there are 
multiple clients, the lawyer favors the most powerful. In Manson’s case, Saturn in 
its own sign is strong so effectively Rahu also wields Saturn’s power. This creates 
a situation where the Moon is put under pressure from the worst two malefics. 
* Atkins’s waning Moon is dark in the 4th house, just two days away from a 
solar eclipse. This Moon is notable in being under attack from every malefic in 
the chart. It conjoins an exalted Sun. Alternatively, if we exercise the option to 
transpose the Sun and Mars in our mind’s eye, since these two are in mutual re- 
ception, we’d see the Moon afflicted by Mars in its own sign. Saturn from the 7th 
house aspects the Moon. Last but not least, the Moon sits on the nodal axis. She 
directly participated in eight of the Family murders. 
* Fromme’s Moon is just past full in the 9th house, and exalted in Taurus. But 
it's aspected by a powerful Mars in its own sign, which gives an aggressive per- 
sonality. And it’s aspected by Saturn from the 12th, which gives an attitude of 
there’s-nothing-to-lose. 
* Krenwinkel’s Moon is waning but in its own sign Cancer in the 10th. There it’s 
closely conjoined with Saturn, with all its attendant negativity. Sne committed one 
murder and directly participated in several others. 


The Moon is only one element in any analysis of the manas, or emotional mind of an 
individual. Its stability is a general indicator of mental health, while its instability reflects at 
least neurosis if not some form of “crazy thinking.” 


The Kshatriya are prepared to kill 


In the Hindu caste system there are essentially five classes of society. The Brahmin, 
represented by Venus and Jupiter, promote culture via law, religion, education and 

art. The Kshatriya, posts held by the Sun and Mars, protect society in the form of the 
government, military and police. The Vaishya, circulating as the Moon and Mercury, are 
promoters of trade and commerce. The Shudra, weighed down with Saturn, offer basic 
services, trades and labor. The Mleccha, outcastes Rahu and Ketu, are the foreigners, 
sick and criminal element. 


The Kshatriya planets Mars and the Sun are considered armed, as are their personnel 
— guards, police and soldiers. Being armed, they can kill. Thus, combinations involving 
the Sun and Mars reflect a strong-armed approach, with all possible ramifications. In 

the Manson Family, three out of the seven have a strong Sun/Mars connection in their 


charts: 


* Manson has Aries rising ruled by Mars. Mars is in the 5th house Leo, the Sun’s 
sign. The Sun and Mars are in a friendly 3/11 relationship. Mars is unafflicted in a 
friendly sign. The Sun aspects the Aries ascendant. Mars is in the “cognitive” 5th 
house, where it dwells on violence but doesn’t necessarily act on it. The weak 
ego of the debilitated Sun can only work through others — the 7th house. 


* Atkins has the Sun in 4th house Aries, in mutual reception with Mars in Leo in 
the 8th. This exchange of 4th and 8th house lords is a bad sign for the mother, 
domestic stability and peace of mind. At the Sun’s end of the exchange, the 4th 
house is damaged by the presence of a dark Moon and Rahu, and the aspect 
of Saturn. The influence of prime malefics Saturn and Rahu on the 4th house or 
the Moon (here, both apply) is a classic signature for some form of neurosis or 
sociopathy. 

* Remarkably, Krenwinkel too has a mutual reception between the Sun and 
Mars, although in her chart it’s from Leo in the 11th to Scorpio in the 2nd. Mars 
is clearly dominant since it aspects the Sun. She committed one murder and di- 
rectly participated in several others. 


Since the Sun and Mars form powerful interactions in these members’ charts, there’s an 
impulse to command and control. Organizational leadership is reflected in the Sun, but it 
takes Mars to use the knife or pull the trigger. 


Caution: contents under pressure 


Of all the planets, Mars is the most aggressive and violent. A person with a damaged 
Mars, eg, debilitated or combust, is a candidate for uncontrolled rage. This usually 
comes courtesy of some neurosis, bad chemicals, or a shitty childhood, and can have 
negative effects on health, relationships and employment. 


Everyone in the Manson Family had a dominant Mars: 


* Manson's Mars is his Aries ascendant lord, well-placed in the 5th house, 
unafflicted by any other planet. The lord of his rising nakshatra is Ketu, which is 
Mars-like. 

* Beausoleil’s Mars is lord of his Scorpio ascendant. It’s debilitated in the Cancer 
9th, associated with Saturn. In the Shadbala system of planetary weights, Mars 
is his strongest planet. The lord of his rising nakshatra is Jupiter, in Mars-ruled 
Scorpio, and in the 1st house with Mars-like Ketu. 


*Watson’s debilitated Mars occupies his ascendant. In the Shadbala system, 


Mars is his strongest planet. The lord of his rising nakshatra is Saturn, associated 
with Mars. 
* Atkins’s Mars is in the 8th house, exchanging with the Sun to access its own 
sign Aries. As per Shadbala, Mars is her strongest planet. The lord of her rising 
nakshatra is the Sun in mutual reception with Mars. 
* Fromme’s Mars occupies its own sign Scorpio in the 3rd house. In the Shad- 
bala system, Mars is her second strongest planet. The lord of her rising naksha- 
tra is the Moon, in mutual aspect with that strong Mars. 
* Krenwinkel’s Mars is in the 11th house, exchanging with the Sun into its own 
sign Scorpio. As per Shadbala, Mars is her strongest planet. The lord of her ris- 
ing nakshatra is Jupiter in Mars-ruled Scorpio, and aspected by Mars. 
*Van Houten’s Mars is in the 11th house Gemini, the most elevated visible planet 
in the chart. In the Shadbala system, Mars is her strongest planet. The lord of her 
rising nakshatra is Mars-like Ketu, also aspected by Mars. Technically, she com- 
mitted no murders but participated in some. 
To sum up, every one of the Manson family has a dominant Mars by virtue of its involve- 
ment with the shtoola lagna — the rising sign and its lord — or the sookshma lagna, the 
rising nakshatra and its lord. 


The end of the summer of love 


The “Summer of Love” was a social phenomenon that occurred during the summer of 
1967, when as many as 100,000 young people sporting hippie fashions of dress and 
behavior converged in San Francisco. Ironically, this was also where Charles Manson 
got his start, living in the Haight-Ashbury district where he gathered adoring women 
around him by giving out LSD. Soon he was also attracting young men to his group by 
promising sex with his “young loves.” Thus, a cult was born. 


Two years later, things had begun to unravel. Brian Jones drowned in his swimming 
pool, and the Rolling Stones’ Altamount concert unleashed an orgy of violence. The first 
victim of AIDS died. The Chappaquiddick incident exposed Ted Kennedy’s adultery. The 
My Lai massacre in Vietnam outraged Americans and mobilized the anti-war movement. 
The “Helter Skelter” murders by the Manson Family in Los Angeles were just further ev- 
idence that it was the end of an era. Indeed, many media outlets dubbed 1969 as “the 
end of the Sixties.” 


The malefics were loose again. 


The Beltway Sniper: Malefics in the crosshairs 


For 23 days in October 2002, the Beltway Sniper held the citizens of the Washington, 
DC, area terrorized in his sights. Ten people were shot and killed over the space of three 
weeks, another three people critically wounded. The shootings had no obvious motive, 
the victims seemingly targeted at random as they went about their daily business. The 
identity of the shooter, firing unseen from a distance with a high-powered rifle and tele- 
scope, remained a mystery to frustrated authorities. 


In the end, diligent police work tracked him down. Fingerprints from a robbery scene 
identified a recent immigrant, Lee Boyd Malvo, who was a known associate of John 
Allen Muhammad. That latter name in turn led to a vehicle registration, and the police 
broadcast a lookout for the car in question. It was soon after spotted at a highway rest 
stop and the two men arrested. 


The triggerman’s plan 


The mastermind and triggerman of the shooting spree was John Allen Muhammad, a 
41-year-old former Army Sergeant who had earned an Expert Rifleman’s Badge during 
his 17 years of military service. Twice-divorced with four children, he had led a restless 
life ever since the Gulf War and his honorable discharge from the Army. 


His 17-year-old accomplice, Lee Boyd Malvo, who’d at first claimed he’d done most of 
the shooting, later recanted and admitted Muhammad had been the marksman. Their 
relationship was that of surrogate father and son. Malvo’s testimony eventually revealed 
that Muhammad’s escapade of terror had been meticulously planned to unfold in three 
phases: 
(1) Phase One consisted of planning, mapping and practicing multiple shootings 
throughout the Washington and Baltimore area. The goal: kill six white people a 
day for 30 days (180 planned victims). 
(2) Phase Two would involve killing a pregnant woman with a shot to the ab- 
domen. Then to kill a Baltimore City policeman and, at the officer’s subsequent 
funeral, detonate several improvised explosive devices to kill as many attending 
officers as possible. 
(3) Phase Three would extort millions of dollars from the government as a price to 
end the terror campaign. Muhammad would move to Canada, recruit homeless 
boys from orphanages and set up a training camp. There he would instruct the 
boys in the use of weapons, later turning them loose to carry out mass shootings 
in cities throughout the USA. 


However crazy he might have been, Muhammad thought big. His birth chart offers an 
intriguing combination of ambition, intelligence and violence. He was born December 
31, 1960, at 6:12 am (Rodden rating AA) in New Orleans. 


Mo 0038 
MaR 1500 


John Allen Muhammad 
06h12, 31 Dec 1960 


= New Orleans, Louisiana 


26 12 
20-39 


Chart analysis 


His chart is brimming with yogas. Jupiter in the ascendant in its own sign gives Hamsa 
Yoga. Between kendra lords Jupiter and Mercury, and trikona lords Sun and Mars, 
these four planets form ten Raja Yogas. The Moon and Mars form Chandra Mangala 
Yoga, Moon and Jupiter form Kesari Yoga. 


Intelligence abounds. Jupiter is swarashi, while both Jupiter and Mercury enjoy dig bala, 
thus giving them enough collective strength to call this Saraswati Yoga. The Sun and 
Mercury form Budhaditya Yoga. 


Despite the intelligence, the dark side is evident. Mars influences all three ascendants — 
udayalagna, suryalagna and chandralagna. So too does Saturn. And both malefics like- 
wise influence /agnesh Jupiter. 


The lord of the rising nakshatra is Ketu, a Mars-like malefic in the sign of Saturn. The 
sub-lord of the /agna is Mars itself. The Moon is in a Mars nakshatra. Mars is retrograde 
and strong. Mars’s recurring influence is the mark of a fighter, a killer, a warrior. 


The Beltway Sniper’s killing spree ran from October 2nd to 22nd, 2002. For those 
interested in such details, the times, dates and locations for each shooting, fatal and 
otherwise, are given on the Astrodatabank page for Muhammad (www.astro.com/astro- 
databank/Muhammad,_John_Allen) 


Muhammad’s entire killing spree occurred during his Saturn dasha, Mercury bhukti, 
Rahu sub-period. As we'll see, all three of these period lords invoked violence through 
the agency of the trikasthanas in Muhammad's chart. 


The trikasthanas are always involved in violence against another, whether via theft or 
rape or the ultimate crime, murder. 


* Murder takes the life of another person. Since “the other” is seen through the 
7th house, that person’s death is seen in the 6th, because the demise of any- 
thing is 12 houses away from the subject at hand. Thus, murder of another is re- 
flected in 6th-house activity of the perpetrator. 


* Murder is a crime against dharma. The chief dharma house is the 9th. The 
8th, because it is 12 houses away, is anti-dharma. So during crimes of any kind 


where dharma or right action is violated, there’ll usually be evidence from the 
planets that the perpetrator’s 8th house is active. 


* Murder is the end of things — not only another’s life, but also a kind of self- 
inflicted suicide of the soul, because once one starts down that path, the trail 
grows ever darker. Again, where one’s own actions result in a death, there’s often 
evidence the perpetrator’s 12th house is active. 


So rape and murder should occur during the periods (dasha, bhukti, antara) of planets 
that signify the 6th, 8th and 12th, ie, their occupants and lords, and planets occupying 
the nakshatras of those occupants and lords. 


KP Theory 


Krishnamurti Paddhati says that events are driven by the period lords of planets which 
signify key houses. Those significations arise via occupancy and rulership of key houses, 
and even more importantly, by a planet’s placement in the nakshatras of planets which 
occupy and own those key houses. 
For example, the trikasthanas are activated during periods of (a) planets that occupy 
and own them, and (b) planets that occupy the nakshatras of those occupants and 
owners. In Muhammad's chart, the key significators for the trik houses can be teased 
out as follows: 
* 6th house has no occupant. Lord of the 6th is Venus. Her agents are the 
Sun, Jupiter, Saturn and Rahu, because they occupy Venus nakshatras. Since 
the nodes represent any planet with whom they have a relationship, Rahu and 
Ketu act as Venus’s proxies. Including Venus, six planets can deliver 6th-house 
results. 
* 8th house has no occupant. Lord of the 8th is the Moon. She has no occupants 
in her nakshatras, so she alone can deliver 8th-house results. 
* 12th house has no occupant. Lord of the 12th is Mars. His agents are the Moon 
and Venus because they occupy Mars nakshatras. Because the nodes repre- 
sent any planet with whom they have a relationship, both Rahu and Ketu act as 
Venus’s proxy. Including Mars, five planets can deliver 12th-house results. 
In summary, the significators for trik activity are: 
* 6th house: VE, SU, JU, SA, RA, KE 
* 8th house: MO 


* 12th house: MA, MO, VE, RA, KE 


Analysis of events 
Now let’s examine the astrological circumstances in October 2002 when John Allen 


Muhammad and Lee Boyd Malvo went on their shooting spree. From the perspective of 
planetary periods, this occurred during Muhammad’s SA-ME-RA period. 
* Saturn is a significator of the 6th. It is also a maraka for this chart. Finally, it is 
the karaka for death. 


* Mercury is not a significator for any trikasthana. But it is both maraka and baa- 
haka for this ascendant, and thus represents misfortunes. 


* Rahu is a significator for both the 6th and 12th houses, and is therefore one of 
the most powerful planets to have a hand in crimes committed. 


The transits at the time of the Beltway Sniper’s shooting spree can also be viewed 
through the lens of KP theory. The first shooting occurred with both lagnesh Jupiter and 
the Moon transiting the 8th house. Both were in a Mercury nakshatra, which invoked the 
maraka and badhaka for this ascendant. 


Saturn was at O5GE08, exactly on the descendant, within five degrees of the Moon, and 
opposing the Sun, thereby influencing all three fagnas. Saturn in the nakshatra of Mars 
invoked the 12th house ruled by Mars. 


Mars itself was in the midheaven at 27LE56, which is both Sun sign and Sun nakshatra. 
The Sun is a significator for the 6th. 


This is a well-documented case, insofar as most of the shootings are timed to the 
minute. Therefore we can and should examine the transiting Moon. KP theory says 
these transits should trigger, via nakshatra- or sub-lord, the significators of the 
trikasthanas. 


Out of 13 events (10 fatalities, 3 injuries) the Moon was in Ketu nakshatra six times, ie, 
almost half the time. This is about four times more frequent than would be expected. 
Note that Ketu is a significator for both the 6th and 12th houses. 


In these same 13 events, the transiting Moon was in the Moon’s sub of a nakshatra, also 
six times, and likewise far more frequent than expected. Note that the Moon (as a planet 
being triggered) is the sole significator for the 8th house, and therefore a necessary in- 
gredient in crimes of this magnitude. 


Execution 


John Allen Muhammad was executed by lethal injection at 9:06 pm EST on November 
10, 2009, in Jarratt, Virginia. At the time of his death, he was running the conjoined 
periods of Saturn-Moon-Satum. As we saw earlier, Saturn is a maraka for his chart, as 
well as the karaka of death. The Moon is a maraka as well, but also a significator for two 
trikasathanas — the 8th and the 12th. Eventually, even our own worst planets show up 
to settle their scores. 


The Ashley Madison affair: Venus and Mars are not alright tonight 


In1975 Paul McCartney sang, “A good friend of mine follows the stars: Venus and Mars 
are alright tonight.” But as of this week when a hacker group made public the customer 
database for the Ashley Madison website, Venus and Mars are not alright. In fact, 
they’ve been up all night fighting... 


For those who live in Amish country, Ashley Madison is a Canadian website for adulter- 
ers. Their marketing line is, “Life is short, have an affair.” On that slogan, they’ve built an 
online cheating empire. And you thought Canadians were boring. 


Back on July 11, 2015, a group known as the Impact Team hacked into the website’s 
database, thus accessing millions of user accounts, complete with names, emails, 
phone numbers, addresses and the credit card numbers used to sign up for subscrip- 
tions to the cheating website. 


Ten days later, on July 21, Impact Team told Avid Life Media, the Canadian company 
that owns Ashley Madison, that they'd been hacked. Acting as judge, jury and execu- 
tioner on a social morality issue, they threatened to make the database public unless 
ALM shut down its site. The company sought to downplay the incident, assuring users 
their personal data was safe, meanwhile tightening up their security. Otherwise, busi- 
ness as usual... 


A month later, on Tuesday, August 18, Impact Team made good on their threat and 
released the entire database to the world. Appearing first on the dark web where it could 
only be seen with a special browser, the massive database (10 GB in compressed for- 
mat) has since been opened up by third parties. 


Websites are now springing up in the public domain, allowing laypeople to type in a 
name, an email, a phone number, etc, to see whether their wife, pastor, schoolteacher 
or senator is secretly a member of the world’s largest organized cheater’s club. 


In all fairness, thousands of these member profiles are likely fake. Many are reputed to 
be phony accounts of available women acting as lures for the many married men who 
might be trolling the site to see whether it’s worth signing up. Other names, eg, Tony 
Blair, may have been enrolled as pranks or in smearing campaigns. Others may have 
been legitimate singles when they first signed up a decade ago, and their names have 
never been expunged. 

But the data dump, which has now been verified as genuine, is reported to contain 37 
million or more records. Even if only half of these are “legitimate” (please excuse the 
unintentional irony), that’s still a whole lot of folks who'll be popping a serious sweat this 
summer of our discontent. 


“Honey, is there something we need to talk about...?” 


Yes, but not about us. You know | love you. Let’s talk about the astrological 
phenomenon of this whole mess. 


Although we don’t know the time this elephantine database was released, we know it 
appeared on the dark web on Tuesday, August 18, 2015. Because it’s a Toronto-based 
company, I’ve used that location, and calculated the chart for noon, since monkey busi- 
ness, in the corporate world at least, is often scheduled under, “Let’s do lunch.” (...at a 
local hotel). 


When we don't actually have a timed event, however, | often simply rotate that noon- 
calculated chart to place the moon in the ascendant — giving us a Chandralagna chart. 
It should come as no surprise that this chart reflects so much of what’s going on in the 
larger social context. 


Ashey Madison “leak” 
Noon, 18 Aug 2015 


Toronto, Canada 


Let’s start with Virgo lagna. The dual signs are notoriously twitchy with respect to marital 
fidelity. Warren Beatty, Bill Clinton, David Duchovny, Hugh Hefner, Jack Kennedy, and 
Tiger Woods spring immediately to mind without even reaching into my database. 


Barely three days into the lunar cycle, this Moon in Virgo is a dark moon. On the Rahu- 
Ketu axis, the mind is adulterated with addictive desires, craving hedonism and sensu- 
ality, and inclined for out-of-the-ordinary experience. Much of this is fueled by fantasy 
within the online environment, where the internet’s capacity to create a world of smoke 
and mirrors is like nothing else in our modern experience. Might as well write it as an 
equation, Web = Maya. 


The lords of the 1st and the 7th, Mercury and Jupiter signifying the Self and the Other, 
are together in the secretive 12th house, the place for “pleasures of the bed.” Their only 
companion is a powerful Sun in its own sign. If we recall that the Sun is a cruel planet 
and a karaka for the ego, we understand what drives these secret lovers. In the cold 
harsh light of its aftermath, anyone who’s ever had an affair knows at heart that they 
were guilty of being terribly selfish, of serving their own ego at the cost of their partner’s 
well-being. 

Malefics occupy each of the kama houses (3-7-11), lending a libidinous quality to the 
nature of the relationships sought. Duh. 


Mars itself is a karaka for the sexual impulse and in this chart is lord of two dusthanas, 
the 3rd of desire and adventure, and the 8th of reversal and trauma, therefore something 


of an instigator for misadventures. Since it’s debilitated in the 11th house, we imme- 
diately see its capacity for wrecking friendships, social networks, and indeed, the very 
hopes and ambitions for many a normal person. 


Morality is under great strain. Jupiter is a karaka for same, and as 4th lord carries that 
additional meaning. In the 12th house it suffers under the affliction of both the Sun and 
Saturn. The ethics of a 9th lord Venus is also under duress from that malefic and debili- 
tated rogue Mars. And there’s the rub... the itch that can’t be scratched. 


Venus has been retrograde since July 26, and will remain so until September 6th. And 
although it’s not immediately obvious from this chart, where the Sun and Venus occupy 
adjacent signs, between August 11-20 Venus was actually combust. 


Although in Vedic astrology, we have no inclination to regard a retrograde Venus in the 
same light as western astrologers see retrograde Mercury, the very timing of this data 
dump on Tuesday, August 18, obliges us to sit up and take notice. 


Tuesday is Mars’ day, but Mars is debilitated. Some people in the social media world 
have dubbed Impact Team's action as “cybervigilantism” — taking the law into their own 
hands and wreaking retribution as they see fit. But the collateral damage will be huge. 


Never mind the class action suits that Avid Life Media will undoubtedly face for failing to 
keep their users’ personal data secure and confidential. The ripple effects go far beyond 
mere financial considerations. 


Venus is a karaka for love and marriage, but in this chart it is also a significator for family 


(2nd house lord), as well as ethics and justice (9th house lord). Its association with a de- 
bilitated Mars can only sully its reputation. 


The Impact Team is well-named, for its data dump will certainly have an impact on 
Ashley Madison’s users. Within most personal profiles are fairly explicit checklists of the 
member’s sexual preferences as well as the desired characteristics of their liaison part- 
ners. “Frustrated professor seeks schoolgirl type to act out detention fantasies” could be 
the least of your worries... 


Approximately 15,000 email addresses are linked to .gov and .mil domains, which could 
be the Waterloo for many a general, since philandering is considered grounds for dis- 
missal in the military. These revelations, as they continue to spill out like a million gallons 
of oil from a stricken oil rig, have the potential to kill public civic careers for decades to 
come. 


In the coming two weeks, as the database becomes more and more accessible to 

the public, there’ll be journalists, muckrakers, troublemakers and suspicious spouses 
dumpster-diving 24/7 to come up with something. By the next full moon, the stories will 
be coming out faster than the National Enquirers of the world can keep up with them. 


Adultery is a trauma for every couple that goes through it. If they’re very lucky, it might 
remain a dark and dirty secret shared by only three or four people. But this atomic bomb 
has the potential to create a million clones of Hillary Clinton, who had to live with the en- 
tire world knowing about Bill and Monica. Not everyone has that much courage to face 
the world. Many normal folk will reach for a bottle, a gun or the yellow pages in search of 
a divorce lawyer. 


Nothing will ever be the same again. As they used to say in The X-Files, “The truth is out 
there.” And if it’s on the internet, it will come back to haunt you... 


Disasters and Mercury Retrograde 


There’s a commonly-accepted notion in Western astrology that when Mercury goes 
retrograde, as happens three times a year for roughly three weeks at a time, things go 
terribly wrong for people. But if that’s really true, shouldn't it be reflected in events when 
hundreds — perhaps thousands, or even hundreds of thousands — of people had a really 
bad day, so bad they died? 


Not knowing what I’d find, | examined the worst disasters of the last 100 years to see if 
there were any common astrological factors, especially whether Mercury was retrograde 
at the time of the event. And by “worst” | mean those with significant death tolls within 
each category of disaster. 


Disasters and their data 
Concerning disasters, there are four major types: 


(1) Natural disasters, involving earthquakes, typhoons, floods and tsunamis. 
These are the most deadly natural phenomena, and in the top ten disasters of 
the last century, they’ve claimed 138,000 to 3.7 million victims per event. 


(2) Maritime disasters, involving loss of passenger ships and ferries. The Titanic 
is only the most famous, not the most deadly, of such tragedies. The top ten 
maritime disasters have drowned 1,000 to 4,386 people per sinking. 
(3) Rail disasters, typically involving the derailment of passenger trains, or their 
head-on collision with another train. In the last 100 years, these major mishaps 
have killed anywhere from 375 to 1,700 people per train wreck. 
(4) Air disasters, typically involving the downing of commercial airliners. These 
have all occurred within the past 45 years during which the size of aircraft has 
placed larger numbers of passengers at risk. These have killed anywhere from 
270 to 583 travelers per crash. 

For more information on disasters, including dates and times, see: 

* wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_natural_disasters_by_death_toll 

* wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_accidents_and_disasters_by_death_toll) 


Methodology & analysis 


After preparing charts for the top ten (ranked by death toll) disasters within each of these 
four categories, | compared the common astrological features for each event (n=40). | 
used sidereal positions, but my analysis involved only aspects and retrogression, which 
are independent of zodiacal sign. Following is a graph that illustrates the most salient 
features found among these 40 disasters — natural, maritime, rail and air. 


Graph 1: Planetary patterns in 40 disasters 


Planetary patterns in 40 disasters: 
natural, rail, aviation, maritime 


I nla ey 


eo 


PS LS See POETS s 


This graph shows the frequency of occurrence for 16 different astrological factors across 
these 40 disasters. Mercury retrograde is just one of those factors. The others are the 
“hard” aspects between the Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn and the nodes. 


Hard aspects involve conjunctions, squares or oppositions. Most astrologers agree 
that “soft” aspects — sextiles and trines — correlate with benign conditions and cir- 
cumstances, whereas hard aspects typically accompany difficulties of some kind, eg, 
disasters. 


Why didn’t | include Mercury and Venus in this catalog of aspects? It’s because Mercury 
and Venus are both “inferior” planets whose orbits are closest to the Sun. From our 
perspective on Earth, they’re always in the vicinity of the Sun, therefore not the best can- 
didates to reflect “independent” aspects. 


In this study, | didn’t look for exact aspects within orbs, but general sign-to-sign aspects 
as used in both Hellenistic and Vedic astrology. So if the Sun and Moon are both in 
Aries, no matter their respective degrees, they’re considered to be associated, ie, “con- 
junct.” Or if the Sun is in any degree of Aries while the Moon is in any degree of Libra, 
they’re considered “opposed.” And so on. 


Observations 


The first thing we should note from this graph is that Mercury retrograde is one of the 
least-frequently-occurring of the 16 astrological factors present at the time of a disaster. 
But how “infrequent” is that? 


As it turns out, Mercury was retrograde during 10 of these 40 disasters. This is a small 
sample, but is it more or less what we’d expect due to chance alone? We can apply 
simple math to figure that out. 

On average, Mercury goes retrograde three times a year. Each period runs about 21 


days. That means Mercury is retrograde about 63 days of the year. That’s just over one- 
sixth (63/365) of a year, or roughly 17% of the time. 


Therefore, in 40 disasters, we’d expect to see Mercury retrograde in about seven of 
them (40 @ 17% = 6.8). But here we have ten accidents, or 25% of the total. That’s 
certainly more than expected, but with such a small sample we can’t attribute much sta- 
tistical significance to it. 


What we can do, however, is attribute some relative significance to it. For instance, 
consider how /ess frequent is Mercury retrograde when compared to other astrological 
factors. 


In the graph above, we see the most common (n=22) feature in disasters is a hard 
aspect — conjunction, Square or opposition — between the Moon and Jupiter. In other 
words, this pattern was present in 55% of these disasters. 


However, we should note that the Moon forms hard aspects with Jupiter (or any other 
planet) from four signs out of 12, or 33% of its lunar cycle. Needless to say, it’s not real- 
istic to avoid traveling just because the Moon forms a hard aspect with Jupiter. 


But if we look a little further along that graph, we see that the next most common (n=21) 
feature in disasters is a hard aspect between the Sun and Saturn, a pattern that was 
present in 52.5% of these disasters. Again we should note that, in the course of a year, 
the Sun will form hard aspects with Saturn (or any other relatively-stationary point) 33% 
of the time. 


Nonetheless, the Sun/Saturn aspect ranks high in the frequency of aspects, and occurs 
a month at a time. And if any planet be associated with disaster, it must be Saturn — 
prime malefic, significator of loss in general and death in particular. 


The Bangladesh cyclone 


A classic example of configurations occurred in the Bangladesh cyclone of 1991. Al- 
though one of the lowest death tolls (only 138,866) in the Top Ten of natural disasters, it 
packed a mighty punch. 


After forming in the Bay of Bengal, the cyclone made landfall on Monday evening, 29 
April 1991, in the Chittagong district in southeastern Bangladesh. Winds of 155 mph 
forced a 20-foot storm surge over a wide inland area that killed 139,000 people and left 
as many as 10 million homeless. 


Bangladesh cyclone 
18h09, 29 Apr 1991 


Chittagong, BGD 


A full moon was rising, the Sun and Jupiter were exalted, and Saturn was in its own sign 
— all four of them in mutual hard aspects across the angles. Mars lay on the nodal axis. 


The sinking of the Dofia Paz 


On 20 December 1987, the Philippine passenger ferry Dofia Paz collided with an oil 
tanker carrying a cargo of gasoline. Seriously overcrowded, the ferry had no radio, and 
its life jackets were all locked up. Upon collision, the tanker’s cargo ignited and spread to 
the ferry, which sank within two hours. 


Passengers were forced to leap into shark-infested waters, struggling to stay afloat ina 
sea of dead bodies and burning gasoline. With an estimated death toll of 4,386 people 
and only 24 survivors, it was the deadliest peacetime maritime disaster in history. 


Sinking of Dona Paz 


22h30, 20 Dec 1987 


The Sun, Moon, and Saturn were in the same sign, all square to Jupiter (in its own sign) 
and the nodes. 


The Ciurea rail disaster 


On 13 January 1917, during World War One, “The Courier” was transporting Romanian 
troops on leave, and evacuating civilians from areas recently bombed by German air- 
planes. The train was dangerously overcrowded, and some passengers rode on the 
roofs of converted boxcars in harsh winter weather. 


While descending a steep slope into Ciurea, the brakes failed and the train derailed in the 
station at GO mph, colliding with several fuel tanks and a parked train carrying tar. This 
triggered an explosion and fire, with the entire train burning like a torch within two hours. 
It’s estimated that 800 passengers died. 


“The Courier” deraiiment 


13h20, 13 Jan 1917 
Cturea, Romania 


The Sun, exalted Mars, Jupiter and Saturn were all in hard aspect by sign. Mercury was 
retrograde, but sharing all those hard aspects. 


Japan Airlines Flight 123 


On 12 August 1985, on a domestic flight from Tokyo to Osaka, an explosive decom- 
pression on a Boeing 747 ripped off a large portion of its tail. The plane lost its hydraulic 
controls and crashed, killing 520 people on board. 

The accident was attributed to a faulty repair performed by Boeing after a tail-strike 
incident during a landing seven years earlier. It is the deadliest single-aircraft incident in 
history, and the second-deadliest aviation accident, behind the 1977 Tenerife disaster 
when PanAm and KLM airliners collided on the airport runway. 


Japan Airlines 123 


18h24, 01 Aug 1985 
Tokyo, Japan 


The crash chart features a full moon, a debilitated Mars and Jupiter, and an exalted Sat- 
urn, all in mutual hard aspect with the Sun and the nodes. Mercury is also retrograde. 


Conclusions 


Although Mercury retrograde appears 25% of the time in disasters, hard aspects be- 
tween certain planets are twice (50-55%) as evident. To judge by the graph, disasters 
tend to occur more during hard aspects between the Sun, Moon, Jupiter and Saturn. 
This allows us to imagine a “disaster clock” in which there are four hands — Saturn, 
Jupiter, Sun and Moon. When the hands align, oppose or square each other, shit 
happens. 

Jupiter and Saturn are in hard aspect for a year at a time. Within that year, the Sun will 
be in hard aspect with both Jupiter and Saturn every three months — for a month at a 
time. 

Within any of those months, the Moon will be in hard aspect with all three - Sun, Jupiter, 
Saturn — for a couple of days each week. 


You’ve been warned. 


Club 27 rock stars: Hope | die before | get old 


“| hope | die before | get old.” — Pete Townshend, The Who 
Sadly, half of people don’t get what they want, and the other half don’t want what they 
get. Death is like that for some. They flirt with it, dance with it, lie down with it at night, 
and sometimes they just don’t wake up. 
Club 27 is about the archetypes of modern music, huge talents for the most part, some- 
times joined at the hip in pain and revelry, all heading at breakneck speed toward an exit 
they didn’t know would open quite so soon. 
Although many musicians died at age 27, these six were world-renowned, and shared 
astrological signatures marking them for study: 
* Brian Jones, Rolling Stone, born 28 February 1942, drowned in his swimming 
pool 3rd July 1969. 
* Jimi Hendrix, guitar virtuoso, born 27 November 1942, choked on his vomit 
18th September 1970. 
* Janis Joplin, soulful R&B vocalist, born 19 January 1943, heroin overdose 4th 
October 1970. 
* Jim Morrison, iconic vocalist of The Doors, heroin overdose 3rd July 1971. 
* Kurt Cobain, spokesperson of grunge, born 20 February 1967, committed sui- 
cide 5th April 1994. 


* Amy Winehouse, eclectic R&B vocalist, born 14 September 1983, alcohol poi- 
soning 23rd July 2011. 


27 is the deadliest number 

For these six superstars, their average lifespan was 27.6 years, a number suggesting 
key cycles at work. 

The synodic period of the Moon, the time it takes to circle the zodiac, is 27.5 days. If the 
natal Moon is badly placed, eg, 8th or 12th house, then the Moon by secondary pro- 
gression is back where it started in 27.5 years. 


For the moon's nodes, the cycle is 18.6 years. Add a half-cycle and you get 27.9 years, 
at which the time the nodes have reversed positions. If the natal nodes were poised to 
do harm, eg, on the ascendant or luminaries, in 27.9 years the transiting nodes would 
again line up on the original affliction. 

Why the Moon and the nodes? Why not Saturn, to which death is more typically attrib- 
uted? As we'll see, Saturn contributes, just not as obviously as the Moon and its nodes. 


The Moon as emotional mind 
In Vedic astrology, the Moon represents both personality and manas, the unconscious 


mind that regulates our perceptions, primary desires of attraction and aversion, and our 
body’s life-preserving autonomic functions. 


A strong Moon denotes a vivid personality, a creative mind and a healthy body. Strength 
comes via sign (at home in Cancer, exalted in Taurus), phase (full moon) and dig bala 
(directional strength in the 4th house). Weakness lies in debilitation (Scorpio) or darkness 
(new moon). 


Four of these musicians had strong Moons, while three had the Moon in difficult places, 
ie, the trikasthana (6th, 8th, 12th) houses of conflict, trauma and dissolution. 


Table 2: Status of Moon, Saturn & Rahu in “Club 27” charts 


Moon's Moon's Rahu's Rahu's 
condition house | condition house 


aceaaa 
meal 


Full, dig bala Dig bala 


Rahu/Ketu and the devouring serpent 


In one of the Vedic myths, the great snake Sarpa crashes a party of the gods and tries to 
drink the soma they’re brewing. But Vishnu throws his discus to cut the serpent in two, 
dooming Rahu the head and Ketu the tail to eternal separation. Ever after, the nodes 
have been enemies of the Sun and Moon, eclipsing them whenever they can. 


In a birth chart, Rahu/Ketu on the ascendant or the Moon suggests irregular behavior — 
irrational, lawless, rebellious and unpredictable. Aside from potentially destabilizing the 
body’s vital systems, it’s often an indicator of aberrant mental and emotional behavior. 


The nodes push the envelope in physical, moral, social and legal ways, often with a 
streak of creativity, insofar as originality represents departing from the norm. These 
artists were largely ground-breaking pioneers in their fields. Four had prominent place- 
ments of Rahu/Ketu: 


* Jones and Winehouse had Rahu in the 1st house. 

* Joplin and Morrison had Rahu in the 7th house. 

* All four had the nodal axis within $3deg30 of the ascendant. 

* Three of them died when transiting nodes opposed their natal positions. 


Aside from being considered natural malefics, Rahu and Ketu by occupation of the 7th 
house in four of these charts also made them marakas, or death-dealing planets. 


Maraka planets 


Maraka planets have the power to summon death. Conceptually, the origin of this prin- 
ciple lies in the notion that the soul’s death is initiated by two base desires — money as 
indicated by the 2nd house, and sex as indicated by the 7th. 


In practice, Vedic astrologers thus regard any planet that owns or occupies the 2nd or 
7th houses as offering potential ruin. The time for such misfortune, especially death, 
arises during major or minor periods of such planets, especially conjoined periods, eg, 
dasha of one maraka, bhukti of another. 


Saturn as grim reaper 


Saturn is Chronos the timekeeper. Although a distant and slow-moving planet, we can- 
not outrun him. If we’ve been reckless in our trajectory, sometimes our orbit crosses his, 
and then his cold reality is forced upon us. 

Saturn is a karaka or general significator of longevity. It’s strong in its own or exalted 
signs, when retrograde, or gaining dig bala in the 7th house. It’s weak by debilitation 
and combustion. Strong or weak, its role becomes exaggerated. 

Five of these artists had an exaggerated Saturn. This isn’t remarkable in itself, but add 
Saturn’s association with the trikasthana houses (6th, 8th, 12th) and its aspects upon 
those house lords, and you get an ominous prognosis. 


Brian Jones 


Jones was born 28 February 1942 at 7:00 PM in Cheltenham, England. Jones’s natal 
Moon occupies the 12th house, to which position his progressed Moon had almost 
exactly returned upon his death. Rahu conjoins his ascendant within one degree and, in 
the last 17 months prior to his death, had been transiting his 8th house. 


Mo 1901 
4 
AS 2001 
@ 20.41 
19h00, 28 Feb 1942 Ju 1914 


Cheltenham, England Ma o305 


He has a debilitated natal Saturn in the 9th which, by transit, had been back in Aries for 
approximately a year prior to his death. 


At the time of his death he was running VE-MA-JU. Dasha lord Venus occupies the 6th 


house and is in the star of 12th house occupant/lord Moon. Bhukti lord Mars gives re- 
sults for its star-lord Sun, a maraka for this chart. Antaradasa lord Jupiter rules the 8th 
and occupies the star of 12th house occupant/lord Moon. 


Jimi Hendrix 

Hendrix was born 27 November 1942 at 10:15 AM (war time) in Seattle, Washington. 
Hendrix has natal Moon in the 8th, which natal position his progressed Moon had 
crossed about six months before his death. The Rahu/Ketu axis doesn’t afflict his as- 
cendant or luminaries, but their dispositors Sun and Saturn occupy the 12th and 6th 
houses. After a nodal cycle and a half, the transiting nodes exchanged signs to invoke 
the same badly-placed dispositors. 


[eel 


Jimi Hendrix 9 
1015, 27 Nov 1942 


od Seattie. USA 

Me cs - 4 5 Raoss 
AS oss | Su i148 Mo os01 

Ve 1432 Sar ress JUR ore 


From the 6th, natal Saturn aspects both the 8th house and its lord, the Moon. By the 
time of his death, transiting Saturn had circled the chart to late degrees in debilitated 
Aries. 


In Hendrix’s case, the period lords (ME-RA-VE) all conspired in his death. Dasha lord 
Mercury occupies the 12th, and is in the star of Saturn occupying the 6th. Bhukti lord 
Rahu acts as a proxy for its dispositor Sun in the 12th. Antaradasa lord Venus occupies 
the 12th, and is in the star of Saturn occupying the 6th. 


Janis Joplin 

Joplin was born 19 January 1943 at 9:45 AM in Port Arthur, Texas. Joplin’s natal Moon 
occupies the 5th house, which natal position her progressed Moon had passed some 
five months before her death. Ketu conjoins her ascendant within one degree and, 
after a nodal cycle and a half, was within a few degrees of conjoining natal Rahu on the 
descendant. 


Janis Joplin 
08h45, 19 Jan 1943 


Port Arthur, Texas 


Her natal retrograde Saturn in the 4th aspects her ascendant. By the time of her death, 
transiting Saturn had circled the chart to the 3rd house, from which debilitated position it 
aspected five of her planets. 


She was running SA-KE-SU at the time of her death. Dasha lord Saturn occupies the 
star of 6th lord Moon. Bhukti lord Ketu gives results for its sign dispositor Saturn (12th 
lord) and Jupiter (another maraka lord) that aspects it. Antaradasa lord Sun occupies 
the 12th and is also a maraka for this chart. 


Jim Morrison 


Morrison was born 8 December 1943 at 11:55 AM in Melbourne Beach, Florida. Mor- 
rison’s natal Moon occupies the 4th house, which natal position his progressed Moon 
had passed some four months before his death. Ketu conjoins his ascendant within 3.5 
degrees and, after a nodal cycle and a half, had transited to within 6.5 degrees of natal 
Rahu on the descendart. 


Jim Morrison 10 


een ¥ 
11h55, 08 Dec 1943 7 
Melboume Beach, FL Ve ors 
JU 356 
1621 
mewn foumw tow | 


His natal retrograde Saturn is in the 6th. By the time of his death, transiting Saturn had 
circled the chart to the 5th house, from which position it opposed his Sun. 


At the time of his death he was running MO-SA-JU. Dasha lord Moon is a maraka for 
this chart. Bhukti lord Saturn occupies the 6th, while antaradasa lord Jupiter occupies 


the 8th. 


Kurt Cobain 

Cobain was born 20 February 1967 at 7:20 PM in Aberdeen, Washington. Cobain’s 
natal Moon occupies the 11th house, to which position his progressed Moon would 
have returned a few months after his death. The Rahu/Ketu axis doesn’t afflict his as- 
cendant or luminaries, but their dispositors Mars and Venus both occupy dusthanas. 


Kurt Cobain 
| §619h20, 20 Feb 1967 


Aberdeen, WA, USA 


His natal Saturn occupies the 8th house. By the time of his death, transiting Saturn 
had circled the chart to the 7th house, thus afflicting Jagnesh Sun and Mercury, both of 
which are maraka lords for this chart. 


He was running SA-SU-VE at the time of his death. Dasha lord Saturn (a maraka for this 
chart) occupies its own star and is therefore a very powerful instigator of death, since it 
both rules the 6th and occupies the 8th. Bhukti lord Sun is also a maraka. Antaradasa 
lord Venus occupies the 8th and is in the star of Jupiter, which occupies the 12th. 


Amy Winehouse 

Winehouse was born 14 September 1983 at 10:25 PM in Enfield, England. Winehouse’s 
natal Moon occupies the 8th house, to which natal position her progressed Moon re- 
turned about six months before her death. Debilitated Rahu conjoins her ascendant 
within three degrees, and after a nodal cycle and a half, transiting Ketu was within a de- 
gree of her ascendant. 


Amy Winehouse 
22h25, 14 Sep 1985 


Enfield, England 


She has a powerful natal Saturn exalted in the 6th from where it aspects her Moon in 
the 8th, her 12th house and its lord Mars. By the time of her death, transiting Saturn had 
circled the chart to her 5th house, from which position it made no significant aspects on 
any key planets except 8th lord Jupiter. 


At the time of her death she was running SU-ME-JU. Although her dasha lord Sun made 
no contribution at her death, her bhukti lord Mercury is a maraka for this chart, as is an- 
taradasa lord Jupiter occupying the 7th. 

Sex and drugs and rock ‘n’ roll 


Taken as a group, these six artists shared two or more of the “Club 27” signatures: (1) 
exaggerated Moon in a difficult house, (2) Rahu/Ketu on the ascendant, and (3) exagger- 
ated Saturn in a difficult house. 


Given the role of both the Moon and its nodes in their respective charts, this triggered 
an underlying disposition for conflict, trauma and dissolution in their 27th years. This 
timeframe coincided with progressed Moon returns (often to difficult houses) and transit- 
ing nodal re-alignments with ascendants (in most of these cases). 


Given the association of the nodes with toxins, their conjunction with the ascendant in 
four of these cases is virtually a formula for sudden disaster. In all six, substance abuse 
was part of the lifestyle, therefore a contributing factor in their early demise. In Vedic as- 
trology, food and drink and “consumption” of every kind is ruled by the 2nd house, giv- 
ing it additional potency as a marakasthana. 


In reality, the nodes have always eclipsed the luminaries. As Amy Winehouse said, 
“Life’s short. Anything could happen, and it usually does.” 


David Bowie: The starman who fell to earth 


“There’s a starman waiting in the sky, he’d like to come and meet us, but he thinks 
he’d blow our minds.” 


From the moment he first appeared as Ziggy Stardust, David Bowie was the beautiful 
alien we fell in love with. In one swoop he made extraterrestrial life seem not only pos- 
sible but desirable: wearing costumes and makeup with orange hair, commanding the 
spotlight in outrageous stage performances, embracing both sexes, creating a cult 
almost overnight... If he’d said he really did have a spaceship, his fans would have 
queued right across the country to beam up with him, to see if there really was life on 
Mars. 


Bowie was a born entertainer. From the time he first heard Elvis Presley, seeing the 
effect his music had on girls, he was determined he too would be a star. (They share a 
birthday, 12 years apart.) While in Cub Scouts he used to entertain his friends with wild 
imitations of Little Richard and Chuck Berry, performances that were “mesmerizing, like 
someone from another planet.” 


His father gave him a plastic saxophone when he was 12, and he started taking music 
lessons, moving on to piano and guitar and several other instruments. He developed a 
voice with considerable range and tone, and over the course of his career wrote over 
700 songs, issued 27 studio albums and gave over 5000 live performances, Meanwhile 
reinventing himself every few years... 


“If you think you’re gonna make it, you better hang onto yourself.” 


When many another artist would have found his niche in the albums defined by The Man 
Who Sold the World, Ziggy Stardust and Aladdin Sane, Bowie refused to become a 
commodity, a predictable producer of the same old tried-and-true music that his record 
companies wanted him to be. He wasn’t interested in pleasing the suits. He wanted to 
be his own hero. 


AS 1324 


Bowie was born 8th of January 1947 at approximately 9 AM in his parents’ home in 
Brixton, a London suburb. Although many biographers quote his parents for the 9 AM 


time, and Bowie himself thought it was more like 9:30, I’ve used 9:08 because it ap- 
pears to satisfy a number of life events. In any case, there’s no doubt he had Capricorn 
rising. 

His chart contains few yogas, but some of them are powerful, invoked time and again by 
the particular disposition of his planets and their dasha sequence. 


The most dominant of these is the Raja Yoga formed by Saturn and the Moon in Cancer 
in the 7th house. Saturn, retrograde with dig bala in the 7th, functions as a double- 
strength dharma (trinal/trikona) lord. Meanwhile the Moon, also double strength when 
full in its own sign, functions as a powerful karma (angular/kendra) lord. Whereas as- 
cendant lord Saturn represents Bowie, the Moon among other things represents the 
masses, his public, his fans, indeed his relationship with the world. 


“Hey man, | gotta straighten my face. This mellow-thighed chick just put my spine 
out of place.” 


The two planets in the 7th also reflect upon his two marriages. Moon, lord of the 7th, 
represents his first wife Angela Barnett. Since the Moon is influenced by Saturn, this 
gave her character both a libidinous and business-like quality. She was a competitive 
free spirit, an ambitious actress and musician whose bisexual lifestyle inspired some 
aspects of the Ziggy Stardust glam rock persona. They married in Mercury dasha, Sat- 
urn bhukti, and divorced at the very outset of his Venus dasha. 


Second marriages are indicated by the 2nd house. By sheer coincidence this brings us 
back to the Moon/Satum pair in the 7th house. Here, Iman is represented by 2nd lord 
Saturn, whose double strength implies her accomplishment and stature. Gratuitously, 
she just happens to be black, the color of Saturn. 


Whereas Angela was the Moon influenced by malefic Saturn, Iman is Saturn influenced 
by a benefic Moon. While Bowie’s first wife was predominantly a career influence, his 
second was more of an emotional touchstone. Indeed, it was love at first sight for 
Bowie, who said from the moment he met Iman that he was already wondering what to 
name their children. They were married in his Venus dasha, Saturn bhukti. 


Both marriages occurred in Saturn bhukti, which offers a classic example of Krishna- 
murti Paddhati (KP) at work. Primarily, marriage is promised in the period of any planet 
occupying the 7th, or in the nakshatra of a 7th-house occupant. Here, Saturn occupies 
the 7th in its own nakshatra, fitting the bill twice. 


“Fame puts you there where things are hollow.” 

Saturn is the pivotal planet in Bowie’s chart. For starters, it’s his lagnesh, or ascendant 
lord. It enjoys double strength through dig bala and retrogression. It aspects back into 
its own sign in the ascendant, fortifying his prospects for name and fame. And since it 
occupies one of its own nakshatras, Pushya, it works for itself during its own periods. 
In fact, many planets work on Satum’s behalf. KP principle says that, when a planetary 
period runs, that planet will first and foremost deliver results for its nakshatra lord. If 


we inspect Bowie's chart, note the ranges of O3deg20-16deg40 in water signs for the 
nakshatras owned by Saturn. 


Here we find four planets — Moon, Saturn, Venus and Ketu — in nakshatras of Saturn. 
Thus, when any of their periods (dasha or bhukti) run, they will strive to deliver results for 
Saturn. And because Saturn is Bowie’s 1st and 2nd lord, these periods (Moon, Saturn, 
Venus, Ketu) will promote his name and fame, his words and wealth, in addition to 7th 
house relationships as noted earlier. 


While we’re on this topic of nakshatra lordship, see also the cluster of planets in 
Bowie’s Sagittarius 12th house. Sun, Mars and Mercury all fall within the range of 
13deg20-26deg40 of a fire sign, a Venus nakshatra. Thus, when any of these period 
lords (Sun, Mars, Mercury) operate, they deliver results on behalf of Venus. Bowie's 
Venus is lord of the 5th (creativity) and the 10th (worldly status), and is found in the 11th 
(revenue from career) where it is amplified by a powerful node, since Ketu is considered 
exalted in Scorpio. 


To summarize, four planets in their periods will operate to serve Saturn (name, fame, 
wealth, relationships) while three other planets in their periods will operate to serve 
Venus (creativity, status, income). In other words, seven out of nine planets are driving 
his fame and wealth. 


Or to put it another way, Venus and Saturn are “karmic control” planets. It doesn’t 
hurt that Venus and Saturn are natural friends. Venus rules the arts (Bowie was a 
connoisseur of many) while Saturn gives form and substance. Saturn sits right on the 
descendant, scoring maximum dig bala points, while Venus is only degrees from the 
midheaven. 


“I'll give you a man who wants to rule the world.” 


Bowie had a phenomenal impact on the music world, if not indeed western culture itself. 
He is generally acknowledged as perhaps the most innovative artist our generation has 
seen. His net worth was estimated at approximately $250 million. Understandably, he is 
one of the most instantly-recognized icons of our era. 


One facet of Bowie’s unique look was his left eye in which the pupil is permanently 
dilated (a condition called anisocoria). In 1962, during a fight over a girl, Bowie was 
punched in the face by a friend, at which time his eye was irrevocably damaged. In 

the physiognomic scheme of Vedic astrology, the 12th house governs the left eye. In 
Bowie’s chart, the Sun (itself a karaka for vision) and a combust Mars (combat) occupy 
the 12th. At the time of the injury, Sun bhukti was likely running. 


In Bowie's hands, his palms are relatively broad, his fingers distinctly long and elegant. 
Typical for an Air-type hand, he is adept at concepts, communication, ideas and novelty. 
His ring fingers are extraordinarily long — almost as long as his middle fingers. The ring 
finger is ruled by the Sun, and when dominant invokes creativity, hedonism and risk-tak- 
ing. In the hands of an artist, it can indicate prodigious output and the ability to push the 
limits of creativity, taking risks with his oeuvre and his reputation, much as did Picasso, 


whom Bowie greatly admired. 
“There’s a terror in knowing what the world is about.” 


Bowie reportedly died of liver cancer. In Vedic astrology, both Mars and Jupiter rule the 
liver. In Bowie’s chart, Mars is in a terrible state — totally combust within a degree of the 
Sun in the 12th house. The liver is also indicated by the 5th house whose lord is Venus. 
Both the house and its lord are afflicted by the Rahu/Ketu axis — chaya graha — the 
shadow planets that are agents of cancer and other wasting diseases. 


Bowie also had heart problems, unknown to the public but dating back several years. 
Some reports said that he suffered six heart attacks in the past decade. The Aries 4th 
house is the place of the heart, and its lord is that afflicted Mars. In addition to combus- 
tion in a trikasthana, Mars also suffers the misfortune of being with two trik lords — 6th 
lord Mercury and 8th lord Sun. Even the Sun as karaka for the heart is afflicted. 


Mars and Mercury, however, do form two yogas. A Raja Yoga utilizes Mars as lord of the 
4th (effort), Mercury as lord of the 9th (luck). A Dhana Yoga employs Mercury as lord of 
the 9th (luck) and Mars as lord of the 11th (money). 


Bowie also has a relatively uncommon Amala Yoga, formed by benefic Jupiter un- 
afflicted in the 10th house, which invokes a certain admiration and respect in society. 
This same Jupiter also forms Kesari Yoga with the Moon in the 7th house. The angular- 
ity of both planets combines to grant him a natural talent for marketing and promotion. 


Note as well that this same Jupiter in the 10th is lord of both the 3rd and 12th houses. 
Connections between the 3rd and the 10th are one of the most common signatures for 
performing artists, whether actors or musicians. Although Bowie was never that happy 
with the roles offered him by the film world — “raging queens, drug addicts or aliens,” he 
said — he was nevertheless one of the most filmed musician/actors. 


“It’s not the side effects of the cocaine, I’m thinking that it must be love.” 


As for drugs, 12th house afflictions are indicative of the self-destructive urges that lie 
unconscious at the root of many addictions. “| know how to borrow a cigarette in every 
language,” Bowie once quipped. But he was a heavy user of cocaine for many years and 
even experimented with heroin during his Ketu-Rahu period, a time when he admitted 
being pretty much off his rocker. 


Bowie’s 12th house configuration also played out in foreign exposure and spirituality. 
The 4th lord Mars in the 12th is a signature for the expatriate, and Bowie has lived and 
owned property in several countries — Switzerland, Germany, the USA, the Caribbean 
and Australia. For a time he was very interested in Buddhism, and actively studied under 
a notable rinpoche, who allegedly advised him he'd be better off to pursue music. 


His creative output was both prodigious and innovative. In addition to music and film, he 
produced approximately 5000 pieces of artwork, the vast majority of which has yet to be 
seen by the public. He is acknowledged as a master of the music video over the entire 

history of its genre. Indeed, one might even say that his whole life has been executed as 


a piece of living art, to which his swan song video Lazarus gives poignant testimony. 


Bowie’s 5th house is occupied by the iconoclastic and innovative Rahu, which en- 
couraged experimentation, not only in his multiple stage personae, eg, Ziggy Stardust, 
Aladdin Sane, and the Thin White Duke, but in the many abrupt shifts in his musical 
direction. His 5th lord Venus is also on the Rahu/Ketu axis, where its association with 
a powerful Ketu in the 11th amplified his creative risk-taking nature, and ultimately re- 
warded him with a largely-loyal fan base and the financial rewards that went along with 
it. 


“We can be heroes, just for one day.” 


Borrowing a technique from William Burroughs, he experimented with cut-up techniques 
to create non-sequitur lyrics that were both puzzling and pleasing. He played around 
with other cut-up concepts, borrowing a melody or a chord progression from some ear- 
lier song, only to reverse it and sing/play it backwards to create something totally off the 
wall and unanticipated. He was an ouroboros, the serpent eating its own tail, constantly 
recreating itself in a cycle of destruction and renewal. 


Bowie was born into a Saturn dasha. From age eight to 25, he ran Mercury dasha. 

Its association with the Sun/Mars pair invoked fights (in grade school he developed a 
reputation as a defiant brawler), sexual experimentation, and spiritual inquiry. As noted 
above, Mercury in its periods will deliver results for its star-lord Venus, which invoked his 
musical and theatrical creativity. During this period he learned how to play several instru- 
ments and began writing music. He studied with mime artist Lindsay Kemp and began 
experimenting with stage performances. The Man Who Sold the World was released at 
the very end of this period. 


He ran Ketu dasha from age 25 to 32. During its period, a node typically acts as proxy 
for any planet with which it is associated or aspected, plus its sign or nakshatra dispos- 
itors. Here, Ketu gave results for its associate Venus, its sign-lord Mars and its star-lord 
Saturn. This period was highly innovative for Bowie, in which he produced his seminal 
album, Ziggy Stardust, followed by the equally iconic Aladdin Sane, both built upon 
their respective personae, a blurring of life-and-art that Bowie subsequently admitted 
was an omnipresent threat to his sanity. He formed lasting friendships with John Lennon 
and Iggy Pop, and collaborated with Brian Eno, Lou Reed and others. 


“Cha-cha-cha-changes, turn and face the strange changes.” 


Just when he could have settled down into a groove, he released Diamond Dogs with 
its Orwellian stage production, then switched to the “white soul” music of Young Ameri- 
cans. Then shifted gears again, introducing the new persona of The Thin White Duke to 
launch Station to Station, and then moved on to his “Berlin Trilogy” of Low, Heroes, and 
Lodger. In these seven years, he released nine studio albums across no less than three 
distinct musical styles! 


Venus dasha ran from age 32 to 52, during which time he met and married Iman, and 
released another nine studio aloums. Although Venus is only a karaka (generic indicator) 


for relationships, as opposed to a prime significator, note that its placement on the nodal 
axis hints of foreign romantic partners. 


During Venus dasha Moon bhukti, Bowie’s older brother Terry, who’d been in and out of 
mental institutions for many years, killed himself. The elder sibling is seen from the 11th 
house. The 11th lord Mars is combust in the 12th house of loss. The presence of Ketu 
(surrender) in the 11th is destabilizing, and Venus there too functions as the 12th lord 
from that place of elder siblings. 


On the income front, Bowie became an innovator of yet another kind in 1997 with the 
introduction of the “Bowie Bond.” This was a whole new concept in financing, and the 
first of many “celebrity bonds.” Under this scheme, Bowie sold the future rights (a 10- 
year term) to all royalty income from albums produced before 1990. The entire issue of 
$55 million was bought by Prudential Insurance, and Bowie used the money to buy back 
the rights to songs owned by his previous manager. In 2007 the bonds were liquidated 
on schedule and the royalty rights reverted to Bowie. 


Also during Venus dasha, Bowie was at the leading edge of social media and internet 
commerce when he became the first artist to offer a download of his new song “Telling 
Lies” directly from his own website on ISP Bowienet. Both Bowie bonds and BowieNet 
were made available during Mercury bhukti. 


Bowie was also inducted into the Rock n’ Roll Hall of fame during Mercury bhukti. 
Although he’d previously refused an Order of the British Empire and other awards, he 
didn't refuse this one. As noted earlier, Mercury delivers the goods for its star-lord Venus 
in the 11th. 


“Still don’t know what | was waiting for, and my time was running wild.” 


Bowie’s Sun dasha ran from 1999 to 2005. These were not good years for Bowie’s 
health, which began to suffer. In 2004, coming offstage from a show in Germany, he 
collapsed and was rushed to hospital for an emergency angioplasty. This was the first in 
a series of obvious heart ailments and attacks. 


The Sun is a general karaka for both the heart and vitality. In Bowie’s chart the Sun is the 
8th lord of longevity, trauma and surgery. Sun and Mars afflict each other in the 12th, 
and they both afflict Mercury the lord of Bowie’s 6th. We can assume a pitta (Sun & 
Mars) aggravation lay at the root of it all. 

Bowie ran his Moon dasha from 2005 to 2015. In February 2006 (Moon bhukti) he 
received a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. This was the culmination of Bowie’s 
39-year relationship with his public, the world. 

Otherwise, this was a reflective time for him, and he produced only one studio album in 
the decade. Quite likely, his thoughts were on the end of his life, as we’d expect for a 
Moon embraced by Saturn. His mind now faced the reality of its own extinction. 

Not that Bowie had never contemplated death. “Confront a corpse at least once,” Bowie 
had said in an interview. “The absolute absence of life is the most disturbing and chal- 


lenging confrontation you will ever have.” His acute awareness of it was woven through- 
out his music, in these examples and more: 


“Time can change me, but | can’t change time.” Acknowledging that time could bring 
a young man growth and maturity, but he’d always be subject to its law. “Time takes a 
cigarette, puts it in your mouth.” Like a line from a gangster movie, where a thin white 
dude scores some smack in Berlin. “Time is waiting in the wings, he speaks of sense- 
less things, his script is you and me, boy.” Life may sometimes seem like a surrealist 
movie, but in the end everybody dies. “/ thought you died alone, a long long time ago.” 
Picture Major Tom adrift in space, staring out at the Milky Way, realizing he’s seen all this 
before in a previous life. 

With Saturn a dominant planet in Bowie’s chart, its major transits marked his watershed 
years. His first Saturn return, in 1976, saw the release of Station to Station, the vehicle 
for his last great persona, The Thin White Duke, and a marked departure in musical style 
from anything that had preceded it. While Saturn transited his 7th house, Bowie took 
up residence in Berlin and began work on what would become his Berlin Trilogy of Low, 
Heroes, and Lodger. 


Saturn crossed Bowie’s ascendant in January 1992. Four months later, he married 
Iman. He experienced his second Saturn return in 2005, by which time his health was 
now under duress. Satum, after all, is a full maraka (death-dealing) planet, being both 
lord of the 2nd house and occupant of the 7th. 


“Look up here, I’m in heaven, I’ve got scars that can’t be seen.” 


Bowie died 10th January 2016, two days after his 69th birthday. He was running Mars 
dasha, Rahu bhukti. Mars is karaka for liver, combust in the 12th. Rahu is a cancer 
agent, afflicting the Sth house liver. Mars as lord of the 4th also indicates the heart. 


Transiting Venus and Saturn, his two “karmic control” planets, were together in the 11th 
conjunct his natal Ketu. This strong Ketu is mokshakaraka, the doorway to liberation. 
From start to finish his life was as much a work of art as were his music, videos and 
other creations. 

David Bowie: from ashes to ashes, the prettiest star, a cracked actor, our rebel rebel... 
In both his life and art he became something more than human — an avatar of Shiva — a 
god of creation, destruction and renewal. In Station to Station he sang, “I! think | must 
be one ina million.” He got that wrong. He was a singularity — one in seven billion. 


We salute you, Major Tom. Bon voyage. And may God’s love be with you. 


Prince: Are we gonna let de-elevator bring us down? 


“Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today 2 get through this thing called life.” 


Prince was hailed as an innovator, and known for his flamboyant stage presence, vocal 
range and guitar virtuosity. His music integrated a wide variety of styles that included 
rock, R&B, funk, soul, psychedelia and pop. He was a singer, songwriter, record pro- 
ducer and multi-instrumentalist. If anyone was capable of carrying a whole career on his 
shoulders, he had the chops for every aspect of it. 

He sold over 100 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling artists 
of all time. He won seven Grammy Awards, a Golden Globe Award and an Academy 
Award. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and was ranked by Rolling 
Stone at #27 of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. 

Prince was born as Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7th, 1958, at 6:17 PM in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota. 


Prince 


18h17, 07 Jun 1958 
Minneapots, USA 
Ke 05 44 
Ve 14:33 2 
Su 2323 
Me soa 


His chart presents something of an enigma, because it seems to have few of the ele- 
ments that we typically expect for a performing artist of such stature. Nonetheless, there 
are a few positive yogas that promise success: 


*Venus, his ascendant lord (functioning here as a trinal lord) associates with a 
strong Ketu in the 7th house to form Raja Yoga. Since Venus is the only true 
planet in kendras, its association with the arts is obvious, while the nodal axis in- 
vokes the innovation for which he was famous. 


* Saturn and Mercury, lords of the 4th and 9th houses, mutually aspect each 
other to form Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga. 


* Saturn and the Sun, lords of the 5th and 11th houses, mutually aspect each 
other to form Dhana Yoga. 


* Mercury and the Sun, lords of the 9th and 11th houses, associate to form yet 
another Dhana Yoga. 


And yet, there are also a couple of yogas that presage difficulties in life: 


* Papadhi Yoga is formed with three malefics —- Mars, Ketu and the Sun — ina 
mala across the 6th, 7th and 8th houses. This concentrates negative energy in 
the 7th to aspect the ascendant, and can cause health problems. 


* Shakata Yoga is formed with the Moon and Jupiter in a 6/8 relationship, thus 
invoking a bumpy ride with ups and downs in life. With Jupiter, the karaka of 
children in the 12th, and the Moon in the 5th, one of the problem areas would be 
children. 


His parents were both African-American with musical backgrounds — his father a pianist 
and songwriter, his mother a jazz singer. His parents separated when Prince was 10 
and, after being shuffled back and forth between parents and relatives, he was later 
brought up by a neighbor’s family. 


As a child he was subject to fits of epilepsy, probably symptomatic of the nodal axis run- 
ning through his ascendant, but he mysteriously out-grew the condition. 


Since 2005 he was a candidate for double hip replacement, but it’s not entirely clear 

if he had the surgery or, as a Jehovah's Witness, refused the operation on religious 
grounds because it would have required a blood transfusion. In any case, he was appar- 
ently often in pain in his later years, and allegedly taking Percocet for relief. 


The hips are ruled by the 9th house. Its lord Mercury is in the 8th, afflicted by both the 
Sun and Saturn. Meanwhile, Jupiter, the generic ruler of the hips, is afflicted in the 12th. 


Although slight of build and shy (both perhaps courtesy of that Papadhi Yoga), Prince 
played basketball in high school. He also began writing songs and performing in local 
bands in the mid-70s. This was the onset of his Jupiter dasha. In its period, Jupiter gives 
results for its star-lord (nakshatra dispositor) Mars in the Pisces 6th, whose sign Jupiter 
both owns and aspects. This 6th-house emphasis invoked Prince’s competitive streak, 
and the entire dasha was pretty much an unbroken string of successes. 


He signed a recording contract with Warner Brothers during Jupiter-Saturn and released 
his first album, on which he played all 27 instruments. He released his second album 
Prince in Jupiter-Mercury, double album 7999 in Jupiter-Venus, and Purple Rain in 
Jupiter-Sun. He won an Academy Award for Best Original Song Score (Purple Rain) in 
Jupiter-Moon. Note that Moon is his 10th lord and, through its star-lord Rahu also in- 
vokes the support of both Venus (fame) and Mars (earning power). 


With the shift into Saturn dasha, things got bumpy. There were internal problems with 
band dynamics and financial losses on tours with too-elaborate stage sets. He was 
forced by Warner to sign away publishing rights for other considerations. He accelerated 
his production schedule in order to finish his obligations to his recording company, with 
some inevitable losses of quality. He changed his name to further distance himself from 
his history with Warner. 


Interestingly, the unpronounceable symbol that he chose for his moniker was based on 
the western astrology glyphs for Venus and Mars, and was sometimes referred to as 
The Love Symbol. As it turns out, both Venus and Mars aspect his ascendant, and both 


planets are invoked by the presence of the nodal axis through his ascendant. 


He married for the first time in Saturn-Ketu. Ketu occupies the 7th house. Unfortunately, 
so does Venus, and thus forms karako bhavo nashto, a problem for marriage when 
Venus is afflicted, as it certainly is in this case, sitting on the nodal axis and being flanked 
by Mars and the Sun. Mars as 7th lord in the 6th is also a spoiler of marriage. 


A son was born in Saturn-Venus, only to die one week later. 5th lord Saturn is retrograde 
albeit afflicted by the Sun. The Moon in the 5th is ordinary and unaspected by any 
planet. The karaka for children, Jupiter, is afflicted in the 12th. 


His first divorce came in Saturn-Sun. Sun gives results for its star-lord Mars which, as 
7th lord in the 6th, threatens disruptions to any marital regime. 


He married again in Saturn-Moon. Moon gives results for Rahu, which invokes Venus in 
the 7th and Mars in the 6th, both the making and unmaking of relationship. He divorced 
in Saturn-Jupiter. Jupiter gives results for its star-lord Mars (occupant of the 6th) and it- 
self (lord of the 6th), something of a double-whammy against marriage. 


Although Prince was romantically linked with many celebrities, including Apollonia, Car- 
men Electra, Kim Basinger, Madonna, Sheila E., Sherilyn Fenn and Vanity, monogamy 
was never really in the stars for him. As his first wife put it, Prince preferred relationships 
in which he was able to relate without any hint of “bondage.” 

Throughout his career, Prince was a fierce litigator against any unauthorized use of his 
music or videos. Mars in the 6th is all the evidence we need for his occasional temper 
tantrums, his competitive streak and a legal team at his beck and call to take down any 
videos that appeared on YouTube or fan sites. 


On April 21, 2016, Prince was found dead in an elevator in his Paisley Park compound 
outside Minneapolis. He was running Mercury-Moon-Jupiter. Dasha lord Mercury occu- 
pies the 8th and owns the 12th. 


Bhukti lord Moon gives results for Rahu, which in turn invokes 8th lord Venus and Mars 
occupying the 6th. In addition, Mars is a double maraka owning the 2nd and the 7th, 
while Venus is a single maraka occupying the 7th. 


Antara lord Jupiter gives results for its star-lord Mars as above, and also for itself, as an 
occupant of the 12th and lord of the 6th. 


Transits at the time of death fulfilled many expectations of KP analysis. Transiting Jupiter 
was in a Venus nakshatra; Venus is a maraka. Transiting Sun was in a Ketu nakshatra; 
Ketu is a maraka, acting for its dispositor Mars and its associate Venus, both marakas. 
Transiting Moon was in a Mars nakshatra; Mars is a maraka. The transiting lagna was in 
Rahu nakshatra; Rahu is proxy for Mars and Venus, both marakas. 


As Prince once sang in his song Let’s Go Crazy, “In this life, things are much harder 
than in the afterworld. In this life, you’re on your own.” 


Keith Richards & Jimmy Page: Mutually in tune 


What do Keith Richards and Jimmy Page have in common? 


They're both British-born and 73 years old. Both are renowned guitarists steeped in the 
blues, founding members of world-class rock bands. Both are songwriters and innova- 
tors — Richards in 5-string open tuning, Page in technical virtuosity. Both are avid read- 
ers — Richards of WW2 history, Page of the occult. Both have large guitar collections — 
3000 for Richards, 1500 for Page. And for a time, both were heroin addicts. 


These two fabled rock guitarists were born in England within three weeks of each other 
— Richards on 18th December 1943, Page on 9th January 1944. Since both were born 

in the early morning, Page at 4am, Richards at 6am, they both have Libra, a sign of long 
ascension, rising. 


Keith Richards 


Keith Richards 
O6h00, 18 Dec 1943 


2 
SaR 20 
MaR 1519 


‘age 
}0, 08 Jan 1944 
Heston, England 


MaR 1147 


Richards’ ascendant lord Venus is in his first house, Libra. Born three weeks later, 
Page’s Venus has moved to his second house, Scorpio. 


In those three weeks the Moon, which was in Richards’ 11th house Leo, has gone 
three-quarters of the way around the zodiac to occupy Page’s 9th house Gemini. 


Except for the Moon and Venus, every other planet is in the same sign. The Sun has 
advanced 22 degrees. Mercury went retrograde after Richards was born, so Page has it 
both combust and retrograde. 


Otherwise, everything else in their charts is the same sign and house — Mars and Saturn 
both retrograde in the 8th, Jupiter retrograde in the 11th, Rahu/Ketu in the 10th/4th 
house axis, 


Both guitarists have a Parivartana Yoga between the Sun in Sagittarius and Jupiter in 
Leo. Since they have the same ascendant, this mutual reception creates for both a pow- 
erful link between the 3rd and 11th houses. 


Among other things, an exchange of lords between the 3rd and 11th can create pow- 
erful artistry including musicianship. This is because the 3rd is associated with physical 
prowess, manifesting as athletic skill or artistic craft, while the 11th is associated with 
realized talents, particularly within the context of a group effort. Here’s how | described 
some of this effect in my book, Parivartana Yoga: 


The native has the courage to address large assemblies, and may act as 
a spokesperson for an association or society. He is talented in entertaining 
large groups of people, through speaking or performing. He takes part in 
a group adventure, and is a member of a musical group or performing arts 
troupe. He may be ambidextrous, and has a good musical ear. 


Although this wasn't written with musicians in mind (I looked for case studies after | 
wrote the effects of each exchange), this does apply to both Richards and Page, who 
share the mutual reception between 3rd and 11th house lords. Here’s how it manifested 
in Richards’ life: 


3rd house themes are revealed through his guitar prowess, songwriting 
talent and love of books. Note that the 3rd/1 1th exchange involves the 
two houses that rule the right and left hands, respectively. The 11th house 
theme has played out in “group work”, a huge income, an iconic social 
profile as a rock star, ongoing dedication to fellow musicians, and a collec- 
tion of guitars that numbers over 3000. 


This describes Page too, except he owns fewer guitars than Richards. But what distin- 
guishes Page is a second Parivartana Yoga in his chart, elevating him to a select group 
— only 3% of the public — who have two mutual receptions. 


Page’s second mutual reception lies in the 2nd and 8th houses, where their lords Mars 
and Venus have effectively exchanged signs to occupy each other’s sign. From there, 
each planet looks directly across the chart into the sign it rules, protecting the affairs of 
the house it owns. 


Among other things, an exchange between the 2nd and 8th houses facilitates the ex- 


change of money and/or knowledge between the native and other people. Here’s what | 
said about this in my book, Parivartana Yoga: 


Because the lords of money for the Self vs the Other are in mutual recep- 
tion, the notion of currency or financial exchange is obvious. This could 
manifest positively, eg, via a banker or investment broker who manages 
other people’s money, or negatively, as a thief or swindler. We could also 
view the exchange in light of knowledge. Acquired education may be spe- 
cialized, or transmitted via an oral tradition, eg, mysticism, occult, or the 
alternative healing arts. This could appear in the chart of a scholar, linguist, 
or occultist. 


Although you might think that sounds more like JP Morgan or Aleister Crowley, it’s 
surprising how well it applies to Page. Here’s what | observed about his 2nd/8th mutual 
reception, with the added influence of Saturn on the exchange axis. 


The negative association of a strong Satum on this exchange axis skewed 
Page into dark territory — his heroin addiction, his fascination with the oc- 
cult, and some unsubstantiated rumors about sex with juvenile girls. On 
the plus side, however, he was well-educated and soft-spoken, and cre- 
ated a massive transfer of wealth from rock fans into the bank accounts 
of Led Zeppelin. Equally positive, he later turned his own significant wealth 
back into several charities. 


Aside from their Moon positions and the shifted Venus that creates Page’s second Pari- 
vartana Yoga, the two musicians’ charts are still strikingly similar. Most notably, malefics 
Mars and Saturn both occupy their 8th houses. 


Anyone familiar with the current sidereal transits will note that transiting Mars and Satum 
will be in Scorpio for seven months this year, from mid-February to mid-September, ex- 
cept for a brief retrograde foray into sidereal Libra late June and early July. 


Transiting Mars and Satum will form an exact conjunction at 15SC47 sidereal on 24th 
August 2016, opposite the natal Mars/Satum pair in the 8th house Taurus of both gui- 
tarists’ charts. 


It may be morbid, but it’s inevitable that the average astrologer will give at least some 
passing thought to the possibility of accident or death during this transit. It’s almost in- 
evitable in the case of Richards, our generation’s walking zombie: 


Long defying Top 10 lists of who'll die next, Richards is an archetypal rock 

star. One joumalist compared him to Lord Byron — “mad, bad, and dan- 

gerous to know.” Another called him “a capering streak of living gristle who 

ought to be exhibited as a warning to youth of what drugs can do to you 

even if you’re lucky enough not to choke on your own vomit.” [Parivartana 

Yoga, p.113] 
Both Richards and Page were heroin addicts. Although Richards was relatively public 
about his blood-cleansing holidays in Swiss clinics, Page’s treatment was more discreet. 
However, both fought the battle and emerged victorious. But however good the vitality 
and the prospects for longevity, eventually the sand runs out of one’s clock... 


So what of that powerful pair of malefics in the 8th house? Are they a pair of killers? And 
now that they’re directly opposed by transit from their natal positions, does this intimate 
a crisis, the beginning of the end? 


Although most Vedic astrologers would now turn to a consideration of dashas and 
bhuktis for guidance, let’s try instead to examine this strictly on the basis of transits to 
see what we might distinguish vis-a-vis a prognosis for either of these two 72-year-olds. 


Note that the transiting conjunction of Mars and Saturn occurs at 15SC47. Mars is 
strong in its own sign, Saturn is ordinary. 


In Richards’ chart, this transiting conjunction forms a very tight opposition (OOdeg28) to 
his natal Mars. Mars is lord of his 2nd and 7th houses. Since the 2nd rules family (among 
other things) and the 7th rules the spouse, one possible outcome is some problem re- 
garding his wife Patti Hansen. 


The transiting Mars/Saturn conjunction also forms a tight square (01deg11) with 
Richards’ natal Moon. Since the Moon rules his 10th house, this could affect his career, 
reputation and/or social status. But since the 10th is the 4th from the 7th, it could also 
spell problems for Patti’s mother. 


Having seen this much, we could now hypothesize that, assuming she’s still alive, Patti 
Hansen’s mother suffers illness or death this summer. This would be a blow to Keith’s 
spouse (the 7th), his mother-in-law (the 10th), and indeed his whole family (the 2nd). 


But he’s not sick or dying, because there’s no affliction to either the ascendant or the 
ascendant lord. His natal Venus is strong in its own sign! 


In Page’s chart, the transiting Mars/Saturn conjunction also opposes his natal Mars, 
albeit here with a larger orb of O04deg00. Again, we could turn our attention to family (2nd 
lord) or spouse (7th lord) but let’s continue our analysis before jumping to conclusions. 
In Page’s case, transiting Mars/Saturn also scores a direct hit (01deg48) by conjunction 


on his natal Venus, which rules his 1st and 8th houses. The 1st represents health and vi- 
tality (among other things), while the 8th invokes physical trauma and longevity. 


Note that the transiting Mars/Saturn conjunction in Page’s chart makes close aspects to 
both natal Mars and Venus, the two planets involved in his Parivartana Yoga between 
2nd and 8th house lords. And the malefic nature of that transiting pair is likely to have a 
negative effect. 


Of what sort? Two possibilities come to mind. 


The first is physical. Venus is Page’s ascendant lord. Natal Mars/Saturn both oppose 
natal Venus; now transiting Mars/Saturn both conjoin natal Venus. Natal Mars/Saturn 
occupy the 8th house of the (hidden) sexual organs. Venus is representative of the re- 
productive system. Since transiting Mars/Saturn affects both natal Mars and Venus, we 
could hypothesize a prostate problem. Will we ever know? Not likely. 


The second possibility is financial. Page’s natal Mars and Venus, both closely aspected 
by the Mars/Saturn transit, are lords of the 2nd and 8th houses. Led Zeppelin is currently 
the subject of a lawsuit alleging their famous song Stairway to Heaven represents a 
copyright infringement. Dubious or not, it’s gone to court. Given the nature of the mutual 
reception involving the 2nd and 8th houses, eg, implying an exchange of money, this 
could mean Led Zeppelin is liable for damages. But since both planets are in fixed signs, 
and Saturn acts as a brake on such transactions, any settlement will likely be trivial. 


| know it’s only rock ‘n’ roll but I like it. 


Note: To learn more about these powerful planetary combinations based on mutual 
reception (sign exchange), look for my book — Parivartana Yoga - available on all on- 
line retailers. 


Penis size: Comparing index/ring finger ratios 


Girls, if your friends have ever questioned the value of your studying the esoteric arts, 
your moment of validation has arrived. Korean researchers have determined that, com- 
pared to the index finger, the longer the ring finger, the longer the penis. 


Several other scientific studies had previously already discovered a correlation between 
finger lengths and prenatal exposure to sex hormones. It’s this simple: the greater pre- 
natal exposure to estrogen, the longer the index finger; the greater exposure to testos- 
terone, the longer the ring finger. 

In palmistry, the index finger is associated with Jupiter, and correlates with good judg- 
ment, ethics, literacy and teaching, to name but a few attributes. 

On the other hand (no palmistry pun intended), the ring finger is associated with the Sun, 
and correlates with demonstration of prowess (eg, athleticism and sexual vigor), numer- 
acy and risk-taking. 


Longer ring finger = 
mm greater “manhood” 


“ (Em Shorter ring finger = 
Py. fesser "manhood" 


In the average woman's hand, index and ring fingers are equal in length. In the average 
man’s hand, the ring finger is marginally longer, reflecting the greater presence of testos- 
terone. The greater the ratio between ring finger and index finger length, the greater the 
“manhood.” 

Researchers from UC Berkeley created a stir in 2000 when they reported that lesbians 
tended to have a ring/index ratio more typical of men. Unfortunately, no such bias exists 
to differentiate straight/gay men. For help with that, ignore the fingers and check out the 
nails. Or the shoes... 

As in all matters related to astrology and palmistry, single indicators of a condition 
suggest only a bias. Additional evidence is sometimes required to, um, fully flesh out the 
thesis. 


Carpe penem. 


Donald Trump: Short-fingered vulgarian at the gates 


While most of the civilized world recoils in horror at the thought of Trump as President, 
let’s take a sober moment to examine The Donald’s most notable physical characteristic 
— his stubby fingers. Now imagine them poised over the big red button that could launch 
a nuclear attack on some perceived threat... 


Scared yet? 


If not, maybe you’re among the great mass of uneducated who stand like a mob of 
barbarians behind this modern-day Mussolini in a business suit. Correct me if |’m wrong, 
but the last time we had someone in America go on such an extended rant about win- 
ning, it was Charlie Sheen. But he was just an actor, not a toxic pufferfish running for the 
highest political office in the world. 


For those who don’t know the whole story, here’s a quick bit of history regarding 
Trump’s prickly defense of his fingers, something that’s now replayed every time he 
takes the stage in the Republican presidential nominee debates. 


Back in 1988, SPY magazine ran an article on Trump, calling him a “short-fingered vul- 
garian.” Although that was a quarter-century ago, ever since then Trump’s been mailing 
then-editor Graydon Carter photos of himself, circling his hands in these photos, and 
pointing out that they’re not short fingers at all. 


6 


ath 


f 


, 
d 
Z 
g 
g 


Like most folks, The Donald knew the old folk aphorism that says: small hands, small 
penis. And he can hardly ignore it now, since Marco Rubio brings it up every time they 
debate. But let’s leave the man’s penis out of the debate, and focus instead on what 
short fingers say about his thinking. 


As psychologist Carl Jung observed, “Thinking is difficult, that’s why most people 
judge.” 
But in the world of palmistry, it’s simple. The shorter the fingers, the less inclined the 


person is to do much thinking. Such a man doesn’t want to analyze anything, since he’d 
rather just make snap judgments. He doesn’t have the time (ie, inclination) to absorb a 


whole lot of information. Facts just get in his way, and slow down the pace of his per- 
sonal action movie. Rather, he fancies himself a trouble-shooter. Just give me the big 
picture and I'll take it from here. 


But as former President John F. Kennedy once said, “Too often we enjoy the comfort of 
opinion without the discomfort of thought.” 


If faced with a complex problem, the short-fingered man will call on experts to do his 
thinking for him — to study the matter and present him with a one-page executive sum- 
mary. But all he really wants from this are a few bullet points, something to load his gun 
before he goes out shooting from the hip. 


His fingers are also reflective of how he perceives time. The short-fingered man un- 
consciously fears time is slipping away from him. Carpe diem, dude. Life is short, and 
there’s no time to waste. As a consequence, he becomes a grabber, eager to snatch 
advantage or power at every opportunity. Ask for permission or forgiveness? Forget 
about it, | got no time for either. 

On the flip side, the longer the fingers, the more comfortable that person is with gath- 
ering, digesting and synthesizing information. He wants to learn and to make informed 
decisions. 


Whereas the short-fingered man is impatient to get his education over and done with (“I 
love the uneducated!”), the long-fingered man is keen to pursue education to the highest 
level he can achieve. That’s why The Donald, as soon as he had a BA in Economics, 
went straight into business. In contrast, long-fingered Barack Obama got a BA in Polit- 
ical Science, then a law degree from Harvard, and taught constitutional law at the Uni- 
versity of Chicago for 12 years. 

Yes, long fingers can have their disadvantages too, insofar as they don’t like to jump to 
conclusions without fully understanding the situation. We’re all familiar with the term, 
paralysis by analysis. This explains in part Obama’s reluctance to plunge into the Syrian 


conflict, repeatedly saying it was too complex a situation to solve simply with airstrikes, 
boots on the ground or a coup d’état to remove Assad from office. But maybe he was 
right. Only a man who thought about it might have seen the writing on the wall. 


Ask yourself, if you were having a loud party and your neighbors called the cops 
because of the noise, who do you want to show up (armed with a club, pepper spray, 
Taser and Glock pistol) - Donald Trump or Barack Obama? Who do you want to negoti- 
ate with? 


Think about it. Take all the time you need. 


Meanwhile, consider the words of Isaac Asimov: “There is a Cult of ignorance in the 
United States, a strain of anti-intellectualism nurturing the false notion that democracy 
means my ignorance is just as good as your knowledge.” 


So let’s join hands and take a minute to pray — for America and the rest of the world — 
because we’re in this together. God protect us all from the short-fingered, short-sighted, 
short-fused man who just wants to grab power now and figure out later what to do with 
it. 

Sorry, dude, but | want my leaders to think about their words, their actions, and the 
consequences of both. So in response to your appeal of Give me a hand in getting 
elected, my answer is no, | won’t give you my hand. But! will give you my longest finger. 


Researchers finger top financial traders 


A longer ring finger than an index finger denotes a more successful financial trader, 
British researchers said in a study published in the Proceedings of the National Acad- 
emy of Sciences. 


Previous research found that the length ratio between the index finger and the ring 
finger, termed 2D:4D, is a measure of prenatal exposure to androgens (male hormones) 
that can affect the developing brain giving it increased confidence and reaction times. 


[Just to be clear, the ring finger is a marker for male hormones (androgens) such as 
testosterone. On the other hand — no, just kidding, on the same hand — the index 
finger marks the female hormone estrogen. Males typically have longer ring fingers 
than women because they were exposed to more testosterone in the womb. But even 
among men we can observe different hormonal levels, ie, some men can be more 
masculine or feminine than others. This applies in many departments of life, with career 
being just one facet.] 


University of Cambridge researcher and chief author of the study John Coates said an- 
drogens improve the concentration and reflexes needed in high-end financial trading. 


In their study, researchers measured the fingers of 44 male traders in the City of London 
who were engaged in trading that involved rapid decision-making and quick physical 
reactions. 


Long ring finger 
= “winner” Short ring finger 
“loser” 


Note: “winner” and “loser” in the hands above are relative terms not intended to be 
taken literally, but simply to suggest the bias for financial performance revealed in the 
specific study. 

They then correlated finger length ratio to the traders’ profits and losses during the 
preceding 20 months, concluding that a lower 2D:4D ratio predicted higher long-term 
profitability and longer careers in the business. 


[In other words, the longer the 4D ring finger in comparison to the 2D index finger, the 
more testosterone, and the greater financial success. ] 


“The success and persistence of traders exposed to high levels of prenatal androgens 
suggests that financial markets may be influenced by traders’ biological traits,” the re- 
searchers said in the study. 


Bernie Sanders: Not-for-sale maverick 


Billionaires and astrologers dislike Bernie Sanders for very different reasons. The very 
rich consider him a threat to redistribute America’s wealth into the hands of the 99%. 
Astrologers regard him as an enigma because his birth time is unknown, spoiling their 
prospects for predicting his political future. 


Astro-databank’s brief biography on Sanders (http://www.astro.com/astro-databank/ 
Sanders,_Bernie) indicates in the Source Notes that no written birth record is available. 
One story has it that an astrology enthusiast campaigning with Sanders 35 years ago 
claimed Bernie “recalled” a time of 12:27 PM EDT. 


Since then, Israeli astrologer Isaac Starkman rectified his birth time as 1:43:40 AM 
EDT, giving a tropical ascendant of 16SC39 (sidereal 23LI35), while German astrologer 
Rolf Liefield rectified to 12:59 PM EDT, for a tropical ascendant of 01SG3811 (sidereal 
08SC28). 


Whereas the above two are Western tropical astrologers, Edith Hathaway and | both left 
that system years ago in favor of Jyotish. She has rectified Sanders’ birth time to 1:05 
AM EDT, giving a sidereal ascendant of 16GE43. 


Although | hold her analytic skills in the highest regard, | don’t find a Gemini ascendant 
compelling, nor the sidereal Libra ascendant of Starkman’s rectification. I’m unaware of 
Liefield’s reasoning, but by some coincidence, we’ve both opted for sidereal Scorpio 
rising. 

Anyone who’s done their share of rectifications will acknowledge, however, that an out- 
come typically emerges only after a compromise. That’s because there’s rarely a perfect 
chart that passes every test of yoga, amsha, dasha-bhukti period and transit. If Edith 
and | beg to differ, it’s only because we've already wrestled with ourselves, sometimes 
halfway around the zodiac, in order to find the ascendant “that works for us.” 


| started with the 12:27 PM birth time reputedly recalled by Sanders himself those many 
years ago. How accurate could this be for a man whose own mother and father died 
when he was 18 and 21 years old, respectively? We may never know, but we should ex- 
amine the chart and put his life to the test. 


Bernie Sanders, 8 September 1941 @ 12:33:10 PM in Brooklyn Heights, New York. 
(Note: I’ve added 06m10s to his reputed birth time for reasons explained later in this 
article.) 


Bemie Sanders 


12h33, 08 Sep 1941 
Brooklyn Heights, USA 


Upon first sight, this chart felt right to me. With Scorpio rising, his powerful fagnesh 
Mars (swa and retrograde) in the 6th house aspects right back into the ascendant. This 
corroborates several things that we know about him: his love of sports (basketball and 
track) during high school, his civil rights activism dating from his university years, his 
fierce independence in voting according to his conscience rather than party affiliation, 
and his growing reputation as a maverick in the finest sense of the word, ie, fed up with 
the status quo, and not for sale at any price. 


He has two Raja yogas: 4th lord Saturn and 5th lord Jupiter combine in the 7th house to 
aspect his lagna; 9th lord Moon and 7th lord Venus mutually aspect each other across 
the 5th/11th house axis. He has one Dhana Yoga: 9th lord Moon opposed 11th lord 
Mercury. 


Sanders’ lack of wealth is seemingly a symptom of his I’m-not-in-it-for-the-money 
shtick. Later that may become a liability when Trump starts calling him a loser because 
he’s never owned a yacht. But Bernie doesn’t care. His currency is ethics, and that’s a 
check you can cash anywhere. 


Surely it’s not hard to imagine a modest guru with a Dhana Yoga. Because he has 

no wealth, do we think the yoga strikes a dumb note? Maybe. That depends on the 
avasthas. Sanders’ Dhana Yoga has an exalted Mercury in the 11th mutually aspecting 
a full(ish) Moon in a Mercury nakshatra. Since Mercury controls this yoga, the buddhi, or 
intellect, will control the manas, the lower mind/emotions ruled by the Moon. 


For much of his pre-legislative career, he was a carpenter, writer, documentary film- 
maker and sometime performer (music and film). His Mercury/Venus opposite the Moon 
in the Sth give evidence of both an intellectual and artistic creativity. 


Government service is typically invoked on the strength of three key houses: the Sth for 

ministry of portfolio, the 9th for legislation, and the 10th for administration and power, all 
the more so if any of their lords or occupants combine among themselves or link to the 

ascendant. 

The 5th lord Jupiter forms a Raja Yoga with a strong Saturn (dig bala) in the 7th house, 


from which it aspects the ascendant. The 9th lord Moon is bright (just days past full) and 
occupies the 5th house from where it forms Raja Yoga with Venus in the 11th. The 10th 


lord Sun is very strong in the 10th (swa and dig bala) where its power is amplified by 
Rahu. 


All three of these lords (Sun, Moon, Jupiter) are considered sattvic. All three are natural 
friends. All three occupy positive houses. 


Moral code and ethics are seen in the 4th and 9th houses. The 4th lord Saturn is strong 
(dig bala), stable (associated with Jupiter the karaka for ethics) and aspects back into 
its own house. The 9th lord Moon is full(ish) and aspected only by benefics Mercury and 
Venus. 


Sanders’ mother died during his Venus dasha, Mars bhukti. Venus is a debilitated 12th 
lord. Mars primarily gives results for its star-lord Ketu. Malefic Ketu occupies the 4th and 
itself gives results for both the Sun and Saturn, both malefics aspecting it. The Sun is a 
powerful maraka for the mother, and Saturn rules the 3rd house, which is 12th from the 
mother. 


His father died during Venus-Rahu. Both 12th lord Venus and 8th lord Mercury aspect 
his 9th lord Moon. Rahu acts as a proxy for the Sun, which is a powerful maraka for the 
father. If we care to treat the Sun as a karaka for the father, then it’s afflicted by its enemy 
Rahu. 


Sanders received a BA in Political Science during Venus-Jupiter. Both planets occupy 
positive houses, associate with or aspect a strong Mercury, and associate with or as- 
pect lords of education houses 4th and 9th (Saturn, Moon). 


He was married during Venus-Jupiter, divorced 18 months later in Venus-Saturn. Venus 
is lord of the 7th. Jupiter is the benefic lord of positive houses (2nd and 5th), while the 
stronger malefic Saturn is a lord of mixed houses (Grd and 4th). 


His only son was born during Venus-Saturn-Jupiter. Venus merely aspects the Sth. 
Saturn strikes a dumb note. Jupiter rules the 5th. (Note: this is one of those events that 
doesn’t work as elegantly as we would wish.) Meanwhile, transiting Jupiter in the 11th 
house was aspecting its own sign in the 5th. 


He was married again during Moon-Venus-Saturn, and this one has lasted. The Moon 
gives results for its star-lord Mercury, exalted in the 11th. Venus rules the 7th. Saturn oc- 
cupies the 7th. 


At this point | felt compelled to tweak his ascendant, advancing his reputed birth time by 
six minutes 10 seconds to 12:33:10 PM. My rationale: to shift the four major/minor pe- 
riod lords (Moon, Venus, Jupiter, Saturn) of his marriages from negative houses 3rd/8th 
in his navamsha to positive houses 2nd/7th. (See DQ in the pair of amsha charts below.) 


Although small time adjustments invariably adjust the start dates of dasha/bhukti pe- 
riods, their more immediate consequences may be seen in the amshas. For instance, 
using this adjusted birth time will offer a new dasamsha via which we can assess his ca- 
reer by dasha sequence. (See D10 in the pair of amsha charts below.) 


D9 Navamsha D1i0 Dashamsha 


Note: the following brief career analysis via the D10 uses techniques taught by Hart de 
Fouw. Those unfamiliar with these principles are encouraged to read New Techniques 
of Prediction, Volumes 1 & 2, by Seshadri lyer. 


* The Sun is in the 8th house of the D10, aspected by Jupiter but flanked by 
Mars/Saturn. Lacklustre. 
* The Moon is in the 12th, aspected by a strong Mars, but swa and participating 
in a Shubha Sankhya Yoga (benefics flanking a line of symmetry along the 
1st/7th axis.) Good. 
* Mars is in the 9th, swa, and aspected by a strong Saturn. Good. 
* Rahu is in the 10th, debilitated but aspected by Jupiter. Rahu acts for its rashi 
dispositor. Venus in the 7th forms a Mishra Sankhya Yoga (benefic/malefic 
mixed) with Mercury (dig bala) and Saturn (swa, dig bala). Overall, good. 
* Jupiter is in the 2nd, ordinary, aspected by its “sole enemy” (an lyer term) the 
Sun, but that’s superseded via its participation in the Shubha Sankhya Yoga with 
a strong Moon and Mercury. Good. 
* Saturn is in the 7th, swa and dig bala, in Mishra Sankhya Yoga with two 
benefics. Excellent. 
* Mercury is in the 1st, dig bala, participating in both Shubha Sankhya Yoga and 
Mishra Sankhya Yoga. Very good. 
* Ketu is in the 4th, exalted, aspected by strong malefics Mars and Saturn. Its 
dispositor Mars is strong and well-placed. Good. 
* Venus is in the 7th, ordinary, participating in Mishra Sankhya Yoga. Good. 
Now back to his rashi chart, independent of the amshas... 
During his Sun dasha, Sanders became involved in politics but failed several times to 
gain office. Although the Sun itself is powerful (albeit afflicted), during its periods it will 
primarily serve its nakshatra lord Venus, who is debilitated. 
He won his first election as mayor of Burlington, Vermont, during Moon-Rahu. Recall 
the three houses for government: 5th, 9th, 10th. The 9th lord Moon occupies the 5th. 


Rahu gives results for that powerful Sun, his 10th lord. (Note: a period lord works for its 
dispositor, but the buck stops there, and we don’t continue to look for the dispositor of 
the dispositor.) 


He was elected to Congress during Mars-Jupiter. Mars, like the Sun, is a kshatriya 
planet with command-and-control instincts, and their combined strengths give him a 
firebrand character. Sun is swa and dig bala, while Mars is swa and retrograde. Mars in 
the 6th for a Scorpio ascendant is a fighter. And although Sanders filed as a conscien- 
tious objector against serving in the Vietnam War, he has been a lifelong proponent for 
veterans’ affairs. The 5th lord Jupiter is a minister, and this period ushered in the first of 
his many committee appointments. 


Sanders was elected to the Senate during Rahu-Ketu. Since Rahu and Ketu act as pow- 
erful proxies for planets that associate with, aspect or disposit them, the pair of them 
acted in concert to deliver the goods for that very powerful Sun. 


He announced his candidacy for the Democratic presidential nomination during Jupiter- 
Jupiter. Since Jupiter primarily promotes the affairs of Mars, we get the sense of a major 
battle to defeat all comers, whether as Presidential nominee, or the job of Supreme 
Commander itself. 


Is Sanders Presidential material? The kshatriya planets Sun and Mars are both extremely 
powerful. The lords of government houses (5th, 9th, 10th) are all strong, well-placed 

or involved in Raja yogas. The kendras are occupied by three karakas of career (Sun, 
Jupiter, Saturn) while the fourth karaka of career is an exalted Mercury in the 11th. 


Can Sanders win the Democratic National Convention? During July 25-28, he'll be run- 
ning Jupiter-Saturn-Saturn. Jupiter/Saturn form Raja Yoga. Since Jupiter invokes Mars 
through nakshatra dispositorship, he will likely never concede, and take the contest to 
its legal limits. Saturn gives results for its star-lord Sun, which commands the chart. 


Transits on July 25 look good. Lagnesh Mars will be right on his Scorpio ascendant. 
Jupiter will be in his 10th house, in a Sun-ruled nakshatra, adding fuel to his status, 
since transiting planets generate results for their star-lords. The Sun will be in the 9th 
house, in a Saturn-ruled nakshatra. The Moon will be in Pisces in a Mercury-ruled 
nakshatra. Thus all three lords of “government” houses (5th, 9th, 10th) will be transiting 
those same pivotal houses. 


Could Sanders win the Presidency? On November 8th, he’ll be running Jupiter-Saturn- 
Mercury. As noted above for the dates of the DNC, Jupiter and Saturn work for Mars 
and the Sun, respectively. That leaves Mercury, which is exalted in the 11th, aspected 
by every other benefic, and working for its star-lord the Sun, also strong. 


By transit, Saturn will be in Jyestha, activating Mercury. Jupiter will have moved into 
Virgo and Hasta, activating his Moon both by aspect and by nakshatra dispositorship. 
His lagnesh Mars will be transiting Uttara Ashadha, exalted in Capricorn, and work- 

ing to promote its star-lord, Sanders’ Sun. The Sun will be in Vishakha, enlivening his 
Jupiter. For the first part of election day, transiting Moon will be in Dhanishta working for 
Sanders’ Mars, and the rest of the day in Satabhisha to give results for Rahu, which is 
proxy for one planet only — Sanders’ powerful Sun in the 10th. 


lf Sanders’ recollection of his birth time is correct, this Scorpio-rising chart suggests he 
is capable of beating the odds to become the 45th President of the United States. 


[Note: Although this article was first published on my website Navamsa.com on 25th 
March 2016, | have not edited it to conceal my wrong prediction. Many people now 
acknowledge that the Democratic presidential nomination was rigged to favor Hillary 
Clinton. That doesn’t make me right but, on the other hand, the outcome doesn’t 
deny the logic of my analysis. You win some, you lose some.| 


Justin Trudeau: Canada’s knockout Prime Minister 


In October 2015, Justin Trudeau scored a knockout punch in the Canadian political 
arena, leading his Liberal party to a majority government with a record sweep of the 
polls. After the longest election run-up in Canadian history, Trudeau capped off the 11- 
week campaign by winning 184 seats in Parliament, up from 36 seats, the largest in- 
crease ever seen in Canadian politics. 


Many said that Trudeau won, not so much because of the Liberals’ platform of broad 
reform, but because Stephen Harper of the incumbent Conservative party was hated 
so much. But now, 100 days after taking office, a recent poll among Canadians shows 
Trudeau basking in the glow of 70% approval ratings. Pundits suggest this is more than 
just the honeymoon effect, and that Canadians are indeed happy with the direction this 
government is taking. 


Key items in the Liberals’ to-do list include: judicious withdrawal of Canadian armed 
forces from active combat roles in the Middle East, massive spending on infrastructure 
improvements over the next 10 years, national legalization of marijuana, a more active 
role in climate change initiatives, the immigration of 25,000 Syrian refugees, sex and 
race parity for ministers in government, and a long-overdue truth and reconciliation pro- 
gram regarding government management of indigenous communities. 


For the moment, Trudeau seems no less than a knight in shining armor for these trou- 
bled times, not only in Canada, but as the leader of a G8 country in a world beset with 
more troubles than most politicians can only shake a fist at. Although at times his youth 
(age 44) seems to betray him in unscripted comments to the media, there’s no disputing 
his undiluted enthusiasm for the hard political road ahead. 


Trudeau was born on Christmas Day, 25 December 1971, at 9:27 pm in Ottawa, 
Canada. His father Pierre Trudeau was Canada’s prime minister, his mother Margaret 
from a renowned British Columbian political family. In that era, fathers were forbidden to 
be in the delivery room, and it was only because Pierre Trudeau was PM that the hospi- 
tal allowed him to witness his son’s birth. 


Justin Trudeau 


21h27, 25 Dec 1971 
Ottawa, Canada 


Justin Trudeau has Leo rising with the Sun in 5th house Sagittarius. He earned degrees 
in literature and education, and for many years prior to his political involvement was a 
schoolteacher. He also had a great passion for acting, although it was used against him 
when the opposition played footage of his acting in campaign attack ads to lampoon his 
lack of experience. 


Trudeau has one Raja Yoga wherein 5th lord Jupiter and 7th lord Saturn oppose each 
other from the 4th and 10th house. This reflects his huge popularity in engaging the 
youth vote in his successful bid for office. He also has a pair of Dhana Yogas, courtesy 
of Jupiter’s association with Mercury, which is lord of both money houses, the 2nd and 
11th. Trudeau’s father came from a wealthy family of Scottish and French-Canadian 
origins. 

Trudeau has a Chandra Mangala Yoga formed by Moon and Mars in 8th house Pisces. 
Most objective observers readily acknowledge his youthful charisma, but also credit him 
with compassion. He put on his political agenda the plight of Canada’s underdogs - its 
First Nations population — whether investigating sexual abuses in northern residential 
schools, or the decades-long spate of murdered indigenous women in Canada’s west- 
em provinces. 


He is relatively unique in having two Parivartana Yogas, something seen in only 3% of 
the general population. The first involves Mars and Jupiter exchanging signs in the 4th 
and 8th houses. The most obvious connection here is with Trudeau’s mother, who in her 
later years suffered bi-polar disorder. 4th lord Mars and the Moon, karaka for the mother, 
are both in the 8th. 


Although his parents were separated by almost 30 years of age, it was Margaret 
Trudeau’s free-wheeling hippie-lifestyle of the mid- to late 70s that may have strained 
their marriage to the point of divorce. In the day, she was known to smoke pot, hang out 
with the Rolling Stones and party at Studio 54, much to the consternation of the PM’s 
Office. 


But Pierre Trudeau was himself no buttoned-down conformist. 9th lord Mars is in the 
Pisces 8th, father-karaka Sun in Sagittarius, both dual signs. His father entered Cana- 
dian politics with considerable panache, wearing fedoras and capes with a rose always 
pinned to his lapel. He wasn’t shy about swearing in public and was once spotted by 
the press sliding down the banister of Buckingham Palace when the Queen’s back was 
turned. 


And yet his father invoked martial law during the October Crisis of 1970 when domestic 
terrorists murdered a Quebec labor minister and kidnapped a British trade consul. The 
army was Called in, curfew was established, and tanks occupied major intersections 
throughout Montreal, a necessary heavy-handedness for which the PM was later much 
criticized. 


Justin Trudeau's other Parivartana Yoga involves the exchange of Venus and Saturn 
across the 6th and 10th houses. Since these are upachaya houses, the implication is 


that he’ll succeed in his political objectives by dint of hard work and disciplined manage- 
ment. This, despite powerful opposition, some from foreign quarters, as suggested by 
the lunar nodes afflicting his Venus. 


He had two younger brothers — Alexandre also born on a Christmas Day, 25 December 
1973, and Michel born 2 October 1975. All three boys were avid outdoors people — 
skiing, canoeing and camping. His youngest brother Michel died 13 November 1998, 
buried by an avalanche while skiing in British Columbia back country. Brother-karaka 
Mars occupies the 8th. 


Justin was running Venus-Jupiter at the time. Venus occupies a trikasthana, and is in 
the nakshatra of the Moon, which occupies another trikasthana. 5th lord Jupiter, signifi- 
cator of second-youngest sibling, is in the 4th, 12 houses removed. Jupiter occupies the 
nakshatra of Mercury, also 12th from the 5th. 


His father died two years later, 28 September 2000, receiving a state funeral at which 
Justin gave the eulogy. Trudeau was then running Venus-Saturn. Venus is in a nakshatra 
of the Moon, which occupies the 8th, 12 away from the 9th of the father. Saturn’s oc- 
cupation of a Sun nakshatra invoked both the status of the father as well as the ascen- 
dancy of Justin Trudeau himself, whose eulogy prompted many to think of him for the 
first time as the logical heir apparent to his father’s political legacy. 


Not that this hadn’t been considered before. In 1972, when Pierre Trudeau was a guest 
of Richard Nixon at the White House, Nixon had toasted the four-month-old Justin, re- 
ferring to him then as a future prime minister of Canada. Was this just diplomatic flattery, 
or was Nixon prescient? 


Trudeau first ran for political office as a Member of Parliament for the Montreal riding of 
Hochelaga, winning his seat in the national election of 14 October 2008. He was running 
Sun-Rahu at the time. The dasha of lagnesh Sun brought him into the national spotlight. 
Rahu, via its association with Venus, invoked the Parivartana Yoga that promised social 
advancement through competition, eg, elections. 

On 31 March 2012, Trudeau participated in a charity boxing match, pitted against Marc 


Brazeau, a scrappy and contentious First Nations appointee to the Senate. Counter to 
all expectations, the skinny Trudeau won the match against the bulkier Brazeau, wrap- 


ping it up in the third round. Trudeau was running Sun-Venus. Despite Venus being in a 
nakshatra of the Moon, both occupant and lord of trikasthanas, Parivartana power pre- 
vailed. Trudeau credited his win to coaching, training and dogged determination to beat 
the odds. 


He was elected as leader of the national Liberal party on 14 April 2013, thus taking on 
the difficult stewardship of a political party that held only 36 out of 338 Parliamentary 
seats. He was then running Moon-Moon. Aside from invoking the energy of his Chandra 
Mangala Yoga, the Moon through its nakshatra lord Mercury is connected to his angular 
Raja Yoga. He quickly began rebuilding the party, criss-crossing the country with a cam- 
paign of inclusiveness, in stark contrast to the almost-dictatorial style of his opponent 
Stephen Harper, who in August 2015 called for a general election. 


Trudeau pulled out all the stops in a campaign that was, despite frequent polls, too close 
to call in a three-party race to form a new government. Most pundits said, the best any- 
one could hope for was a minority government. But on 19 October 2015, Trudeau and 
his Liberals swept to victory in a landslide. 


He was running Moon-Jupiter. Both planets are involved, directly or by association, with 
the Parivartana Yoga of 4th and 8th lords, which demonstrates perhaps the power of 
the people (the 4th) to effect transformation (the 8th). Both planets occupy a nakshatra 
of Mercury, a positive house lord associated in turn with the Raja Yoga formed by the 
Jupiter/Saturn pair in the kendras. 


Trudeau now faces the challenge of completing a lengthy to-do list within the five-year 
mandate awarded to a Prime Minister. Canadians are hopeful he can effect un grand vi- 
rage (a big shift) in Canada’s status without breaking the bank. 


Despite massive challenges and hard work ahead, Trudeau reflects the optimism of a 
Leo ascendant. He is pro-choice, pro-feminist and gay-friendly. His office announced 
recently that he will participate in this summer’s Gay Pride festivities in Toronto, a first for 
a Canadian Prime Minister. And as he kept pointing out during last fall’s election cam- 
paign, he sees the light at the end of the tunnel: 


“Sunny ways, my friends, sunny ways.” 


Donald Trump: The man who would be kingmaker 


Donald Trump is like an anteater whose tongue is capable of extending so deep into the 
American psyche that it can stir up entire nests of cherished beliefs, fantasies and pho- 
bias. Although most rational people dismiss him as a serious contender for the highest 
political office in the world, his current lead in the Republican candidate polling obliges 
everyone to sit up and take notice. 


But isn’t this a perverse aspect of our human nature? We know in our hearts that an 
elephant can’t ride a unicycle up a staircase. At some point, we know he’s going to lose 
his balance. We’re watching, in horror, yes, that something so circus-like could unfold in 
the world’s greatest democracy, but we’re also watching in anticipation of a delightfully 
giant SPLAT at the end of this. 


High drama and high comedy can go hand in hand, and apparently this is what The 
Donald, albeit unconsciously, seems to do best. 


For anyone who's been living in a Tibetan cave for the past 40 years, here’s all you need 
to Know about Donald Trump. His father was a New York real estate mogul, whose 
business Trump took control of in 1971. He made his fortune in Manhattan real estate in 
the 70s and 80s, then lost most of it in the 90s, forcing a fire sale of assets that brought 
him to the brink of personal bankruptcy. But he bounced back in the late 90s with more 
real estate projects and went on to even greater heights, relentlessly building the Trump 
brand. 


Aside from forays into sports franchises, beauty pageants and other diversions, his gen- 
uine fame came in 2003 with his reality show The Apprentice and its now-famous tag- 
line, “You're fired!” All along, however, like a child with ADHD and never quite enough 
toys, he’s flirted with politics. He floated the idea of running for president in 1988, 2004, 
and 2012, and for governor of New York in 2006 and 2014, but never entered any of 
those races. Now, however, he seems to have sensed the time is right for him to fulfill 
the American dream. And inadvertently, everyone else’s nightmare. 


Trump for President in 2016! Step right up, folks, get your tickets, see the elephant ride 
a unicycle up the staircase. It reminds one of that George Carlin line: “When you're born 
you get a ticket to the freak show. When you’re born in America, you get a front row 
seat.” 


As for Trump, he was born at 10:54 AM on June 14, 1946, Jamaica, within the Queens 
borough of New York. 


His chart has few yogas, and none that we would expect (eg, Dharma Karma Adhipati, 
Dhana, Chandra Mangala, Lakshmi) for a man of such influence and wealth. In fact, he 
has only four yogas of any consequence: 


* Raja Yoga is formed when a trikona lord joins a node in a kendra, or a kendra 
lord joins a node in a trikona house. Here, fagnesh Sun functioning as a trikona 
lord joins Rahu in the 10th. The Sun has dig bala and Rahu is debilitated, while 
both are aspected by Jupiter. 


* Neecha Bhanga Raja Yoga arises from a debilitated Moon in the 4th. Its first 
source of relief: Moon is aspected by its dispositor Mars. Second source of relief: 
its dispositor Mars is in a kendra. Third source of (arguable) relief: the Moon is 
associated with angular Ketu exalted in Scorpio. The fourth source of relief is un- 
available: Venus, lord of the Moon’s exaltation sign Taurus, is in the 12th. So this 
is a watered-down yoga, functioning at perhaps 2/3 strength. 


* Subha Veshi Yoga requires a strong benefic in the 2nd house from the Sun. 
Here, Mercury is swa in the 11th and free of aspect. This, as much as anything, 
could be construed as the source of Trump’s ability to craft multi-million-dollar 
deals. 


* Kala Sarpa Yoga is formed when the Rahu/Ketu axis forms a dividing line 
through the chart, and all of the planets are on one side or the other of that nodal 
axis. This yoga is the elephant-in-the-room for Trump’s chart, and is of such 
magnitude that it deserves an entire analysis all on its own. 


Kala Sarpa is not discussed in classical shastra. It arises from an oral tradition, probably 
Tantrik, and is subject to significant differences in interpretation. Some describe Kala 
Sarpa as a major flaw in a birth chart, a dosha that foretells loss of everything. Oth- 

ers say it functions as a yoga to bestow the power of a king, assuming the child who 
possesses it survives. It reminds us of that old saying, Beware of fire and water and 
Tantriks, for all three have the power to take your life. 


Kala Sarpa exists in four descending varieties of potency: 


(1) A “perfect” yoga is when (a) Rahu and Ketu have no association with any 
other planet; (b) the sapta grahas lie (exclusively) within the RA/KE axis and all 


seven occupy the 150-degree zone of the five signs between lunar nodes; and 
(c) each of the signs holds at least one of the seven planets. This full-fledged 
yoga is rarely found. 

(2) A “potent” yoga requires both (a) and (b) above, but not (c), so that, among 
the intervening five signs between nodes, one or more may be vacant. 


(3) A “partial” yoga is when the seven planets gather exclusively on one side of 
the RA/KE axis but at least one planet is on the RA/KE axis in one or both of the 
signs occupied by the nodes. 


(4) A “potential” yoga is when the seven planets fail to gather exclusively within 
the axis, but all seven planets occupy the seven signs counted exclusively in ei- 
ther direction from the RA/KE axis. 


The latter case of #4 describes Trump’s Kala Sarpa. It narrowly fails to meet the criteria 
for #3 because his Moon lies just 26 minutes of arc outside the nodal axis. 


(Note: Although it doesn’t matter in Trump’s case, the reader is cautioned to use 
“mean node” settings on astrological programs, because “true node” can differ 
by 1deg30min or more, and thus “move the fence” in one direction or another, 
potentially transferring a nearby planet in or out of the zone.) 


Now that we know Trump has a “potential” Kala Sarpa, or something of a low-grade 
version of the full-fledged yoga, let’s return to the consideration of effect. Is it a blessing 
or a curse? Traditional jyotishis have always recognized its capacity to go either way. 
Kala Sarpa can be a yoga, indicating supreme attainment, but it can also be a dosha, 
indicating supreme blemish. 


To determine which it is in Trump’s case, we must conduct yoga vichara, an analysis 
that examines the credits and debits of any individual Kala Sarpa. 
(1) Does it occur under an eclipse? Yes. Trump was born less than four hours 
before a total lunar eclipse. Since he was born in “a troubling time” this blemish 
deflects our qualitative needle from yoga to dosha. 
(2) Are the Sun and Moon associated with the nodes? Yes. And because the 
nodes are the enemies of the luminaries, and vice versa, this is another blemish, 
further qualifying it as a dosha. 


(3) Does Jupiter aspect either of the nodes? Yes. Although Rahu is debilitated, 
the aspect of a strong retrograde Jupiter stabilizes the configuration, giving it 
yoga status. 

(4) Do Mars or Saturn aspect the nodes? Yes. Although Saturn is out of play, 
Mars both aspects and disposits Ketu. Although the angularity of Ketu’s disposi- 
tor is a positive factor, its aspect is nonetheless malefic, so we’re obliged to con- 
sider this more of a dosha. 


(5) /s there a stellium through which a transiting node might stir up trouble? 
No. 


(6) Are there any exaggerated grahas in the chart? Yes, six of them. The Sun 
and Moon both have dig bala. The Moon is also full and debilitated. Mercury is 
swa. Jupiter is retrograde. Rahu is debilitated, Ketu exalted. 


(7) What type of Kala Sarpa is it? When all of the planets move toward Rahu (the 
serpent’s head), the anuloma type is seen as more troublesome. When all of the 
planets are moving toward Ketu (the tail), as it is here, the viloma type can bring 
prosperity, but problems nonetheless. (Note: in Trump’s chart, his Moon has just 
barely escaped from the grip of Ketu.) 


We can also benefit by examining the condition of the nodes’ dispositors, both by sign 
and nakshatra: 


* Rahu’s sign dispositor is Venus in the 12th associated with Saturn. Negative. 
* Rahu’s nakshatra dispositor is Mars alone in the ascendant. Positive. 

* Ketu’s sign dispositor is Mars alone in the ascendant. Positive. 

* Ketu’s nakshatra dispositor is swa Mercury alone in the 11th. Very positive. 


* Net effect, a combination of executive power, money-making smarts, and loss 
of face, therefore, a mixed bag. 


There’s no easy way to summarize this, but Trump’s Kala Sarpa has qualities of both 
yoga and dosha. Perhaps critical to the tipping point is his Moon. It’s in a highly exagger- 
ated condition, on the positive side being full and having dig bala, while on the negative 
side being debilitated and eclipsed. 


A debilitated Moon is one indication of a disturbed manas. Being eclipsed on the Rahu/ 
Ketu axis aggravates it. Senator John McCain recently admonished Trump to tone down 
his campaign rhetoric, for fear of “stirring up all the crazies.” But maybe it’s too late, and 
one of the big ones is already loose. 


As noted above, Trump’s Moon has just barely escaped the Rahu/Ketu axis, and 
therefore suggests something of a tipping-point factor in the evolution of his destiny. The 
Moon is the 12th lord in the 4th house. This calls to mind some B-grade movie in which 
a chain gang is being transported by bus to work in the fields, but one of the prisoners 
overpowers the guards and takes control of the bus. 


Once he’s got his hands on the wheel, however, it’s hardly in Trump’s character to let go. 
Consider his kendras. Sun and Mars are both kshatriya planets, with a strong bias for 
command and control. Ketu is Mars-like, which brings more of the same, since all three 
are considered hot planets. Toss in the Moon, whose only influences are the two ksha- 
triya grahas and the iconoclastic nodal axis, and you have the recipe for a demagogue, 
an agent provocateur, a rabble-rouser. 


So where’s all this headed? To anticipate the future, let’s try to understand the past. 
Trump inherited the family business in 1971, the last quarter of his Venus dasha. Venus 
primarily gives results for that strong Jupiter in the 2nd. So he got his education and 
started making money. 


The Sun and Moon dashas were good for Trump. The Sun forms Raja Yoga and gives 
results for its nakshatra dispositor, bhumikaraka Mars, which occupies the ascendant 
and owns two positive houses, the 4th (real estate) and the 9th. The Moon gives results 
for its star-lord Mercury, strong in the 11th and owning both of the money houses, 2nd 
and 11th. 


Mars dasha was not good. Things went downhill in the early 90s, right to the edge of 
personal bankruptcy, plus an expensive divorce from Ivana. Mars gives results for star- 
lord Ketu, which in turn draws fuel from Sun and Mars and Moon, the latter being per- 
haps the most potent and complex planet in his chart. And the Moon rules the 12th 
house of loss. 


Rahu dasha brought him back up again. The node’s association with lagnesh Sun 
grants it Raja Yoga status. Rahu finds a public through that full Moon, and it’s the only 
planet in the chart that receives Jupiter’s aspect. 


Since April 2014, Trump has been running Rahu-Moon. Little wonder that in this time 
he’s emerged as a wild (!) card in the campaign for the Republican presidential nomina- 
tions, making one incendiary comment after another, embarrassing half of his Party to 
the applause of the other half, refusing to backtrack or apologize for anything, shedding 
business alliances like a moulting phoenix. 


Some pundits suggest that Trump has no serious intent to, even if the Republican Party 
lets him, stay the course until election day on November 8, 2016. They say he’s only 
doing this to further build his brand. Trump already reckons he’s worth about $10 Billion, 
half of which is real assets, the other half his (perceived) value of the Trump name. 


Back to the bhuktis, recall that the Moon is an out-rider, having narrowly escaped the 
perimeter fence drawn by the nodal axis. While the Moon bhukti runs, Trump is likely to 
continue his self-designated role of political agitator. But after the Mars bhukti kicks in, 
from November 2015 onwards, we may well see a change of posture for Trump. 


A Trump presidency could be an unmitigated foreign affairs disaster for the USA. Trump 
is a blow-hard commander-in-chief wannabe. The Sun, Mars and Ketu provide just too 
much unregulated heat in the Trump persona, and the Moon is a faulty thermostat. His 
finger on the trigger of an American arsenal would be the equivalent of a teenager with a 
machinegun blowing his feet off the first time he goes out on the firing range. 


Meanwhile, Venus, the karaka for diplomacy, and 7th lord Saturn are both in the 12th, 
which bodes poorly for international relations. (Already, he is Senor Pifiata in Mexico.) 
Between the “I’m-the-greatest” and “you’re-fired” aspects of his personality, there’s 
barely enough room for a little logic to squeeze in and play devil’s advocate. 


After Mars bhukti kicks in, Trump will probably see enough writing on the wall to realize 
that he’d be better off playing “kingmaker” than actually becoming king. Let’s face it, be- 
coming President would kill him. The last three guys were all relatively young when they 
were swom in — Clinton 46, Bush 54, Obama 47 — and the White House made them 
grey-haired men. Trump will be 70 next year. Who wants a President with a grey toupee? 
But thanks to his energetic rants — basically talking out loud without thinking too much 
of the consequences — Trump has exposed a deep seam of hate, prejudice and fear 
among Republicans and, by extension, a sizable swath of the American electorate. 
Given his surprise showing in the early polls, he’s already increased his brand strength. 
Now, through a combination of back room deals and public forums, he can still use his 
influence to shape America’s political future and, quite possibly, feather his own king- 
size bed in Trump Tower too. 


His transits suggest a grand exercise in brinkmanship. Saturn will remain in Scorpio 

up to and including election day, but its presence in the same sign as the Moon spells 
Sadhe Sati, so there’s likely to be some deflation at the end of the cycle. Transiting 
Rahu is in Virgo these days, but in February 2016 it will enter Leo. If Trump stays in play 
that long, it’s likely his rhetoric will become even more inflammatory, but to his political 
detriment. Finally, we have Jupiter currently in his Leo ascendant, where it inflates The 
Donald’s ego to the size of a Macy’s Parade dirigible, before returning to its natal sign 
Virgo next year, and he can go back to building his financial empire. 


In a way, he’s like a wide receiver that’s caught the ball, got a little confused out there in 
mid-field, and is now running pell-mell for his own end-zone, meanwhile ignoring all his 
teammates yelling at him to stop and go the other way. But if he can just keep running 
around out there, making a spectacle of himself for sure, but meanwhile retain control of 
the ball, he'll still have the option to hand it off to another player. Then he can step off to 
the sidelines, saying he knew all along what he was doing, he just wanted to add a little 
excitement to the game. 


And people will speak of him forever after in tones of shock and awe, how he almost lost 
the Super Bowl but, at the last minute, came to his senses and did what was right for 
the team, the Party and the country. 

Hail Donald! Long may he prosper! 

[Note: Although this article was first published on my website Navamsa.com on 24th 


July 2015, | have not edited it to conceal my wrong prediction. Most of what I’ve writ- 
ten here still stands.] 


SPIRITUALITY 


Swami Prabhupada: A choice of ascendants 


Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada was a guru and the founder of the International 
Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), commonly known as the “Hare Krishna 
Movement.” His mission was to propagate Gaudiya Vaishnavism, a school of Hinduism 
taught by his guru, throughout the world. 


A charismatic leader, he emerged as a major figure of the Western counter-culture, find- 
ing early acceptance in San Francisco of the Sixties. He translated into English over 60 
volumes of classic Vedic scriptures, praised by academics and well-received by spiritual 
devotees world-wide. In subsequent translation into 80 other languages, over half a bil- 
lion of his books have been distributed. 


After his death in 1977, ISKCON continued to grow, and is respected in India, though 
there have been disputes about leadership among his followers. Over the years, there 
has been rumor-fueled speculation as to whether Prabhupada was poisoned in his later 
years, So as to facilitate a change of leadership. 


This past year, a devotee client of mine asked whether | might try to determine Prab- 
hupada’s correct chart. He was especially interested to know if the chart would cor- 
roborate the poisoning theory. He provided me with certain information — major events 
in Prabhupada’s life, anecdotes about the inner workings of ISKCON, and astrological 
analyses by two other devotee astrologers. 


The most vocal of these pundits says only a Sagittarius ascendant can explain Prabhu- 

pada’s mass appeal and prolific authorship. | suspect this is based in part on the notion 
that Sagittarius must be more “spiritual” than Capricorn. But certainly, a Dhanus lagna is 
attractive, in that it puts Jagnesh Jupiter in the spiritual 9th with Ketu and a strong Sun in 
Leo. An exalted Mercury is in the 10th, an exalted Saturn in the 11th, and it’s these two 

strengths that the same pundit offers as prime evidence of Prabhupada the author. 


Interestingly, Prabhupada himself apparently identified with a Capricorn ascendant 
corresponding to the 4 PM time at which he believed he was born. Yet, half an hour ear- 
lier, Sagittarius was rising, and there began the speculation... 


After examining the salient events in his life in light of dashas, bhuktis and transits, I’ve 
tentatively settled on a time of 15n54 (1 Sept 1896, Calcutta), which produces an as- 
cendant of O6CP16. Although we can rarely make a chart account for an entire life, fol- 
lowing are my arguments for a Capricorn ascendant. 


Swami Prabhupada 


15hS4, 01 Sep 1896 
Calcutta. India 


Authorship 


The two houses most generally associated with authorship are the 2nd and the 5th, 
while the 3rd is execution of craft or trade, relating more to writing skill itself. The 2nd 
reflects someone who has “something to say”, while the 5th reflects the work of the crit- 
ical and/or creative mind. 


2nd lord Saturn is exalted in the 10th. This suggests someone whose career is related 
to speaking, teaching and writing. Saturn is also lagnesh, and being exalted in a kendra, 
generates a Mahapurusha Yoga. This Sasha Yoga might be considered something of an 
archetypal renunciate, for such is Saturn’s nature. 


5th lord Venus is debilitated in the 9th, where debilitation is cancelled by the presence of 
the 9th lord Mercury. With Venus representing the critical/creative mind, its field of play is 
the 9th of publishing. Furthermore, ME/VE together generate Raja Yoga (lords of 9th and 
10th conjoined). 


The 5th is occupied by an exalted Moon with Mars. This constitutes a strong Chandra 
Mangala Yoga, one of the fundamental wealth yogas, and in the 5th reflects a high level 
of mental energy and productivity. 


Fame 


Lagnesh Satur is exalted in the 10th and free of affliction. The Moon is exalted and 
forms yoga with Mars. The Sun is in its own sign with gurukaraka Jupiter. 


And as we'll see below, the back-to-back dashas of two exalted planets — Saturn and 
Mercury — in his maturity gave Prabhupada the opportunity to make his mark in the 
world. 


Spiritual signatures 


Sasha Yoga is alone sufficient cause for a renunciate and spiritual life. Prabhnupada also 

has the makings of Srikanta Yoga (lagnesh, Sun and Moon strong in good houses) but 

the Sun is badly placed. Likewise for Srinatha Yoga (9th lord, Mercury and Venus strong 
in good houses) but Venus is debilitated. 


Betrayal by acolytes/disciples/staff 


For a Capricorn ascendant, Saturn is Prabhupada’s key significator. His acolytes/disci- 
ples/students are found via the 5th, their significator the 5th lord Venus. Note Venus lies 
in the 12th (place of secret enemies) from Saturn. 


Similarly, staff/underlings are found via the 6th, so their significator is 6th lord Mercury. 
Mercury also lies in the 12th from Saturn. 


Poisoning 


Malefics in the 2nd reflect “bad food”. Rahu occupies the 2nd and is itself the karaka for 
poisons. Rahu is aspected only by 8th lord Sun and 12th lord Jupiter, both trik lords and 
therefore functionally malefic for Prabhupada. 


One could even make an argument that from the 7th, that strong Sun is now the food 
possessed (or administered) by the Other. 


Major periods/events in life 
Prabhupada married in 1918, Rahu dasha Mars bhukti. Houses typically activated for 
marriage are 2nd (family), 7th (relationship), 11th (wishes fulfilled). 
*Rahu occupies the 2nd 
* Mars is in nakshatra of Moon who rules the 7th 
* Mars rules the 11th. 
Jupiter dasha ran 1919-1935. During this period, there was both traction and slippage 


(JU in 8th) in his pharmaceutical career (Jupiter on Rahu/Ketu axis). He began his tenta- 
tive involvement in spiritual movements. 
Saturn dasha ran 1935-1954. Prabhupada’s real “life work” began (SA in 10th). 
Instructed by his guru to build temples, publish books and introduce Krishna conscious- 
ness to the West, he started Godhead magazine, retired from family life, and initiated his 
first disciple. 
Mercury dasha ran 1954-1971. Prabhupada totally embraced spiritual life (exalted ME 
in 9th) via vanaprastha and sannyasa orders. He published his first book, traveled to 
America and established the spiritual organization ISKCON. His Bhagavad Gita transla- 
tion with commentary was published by Macmillan. 

* became sannyasin Sept 1959, during ME-VE 

* published first book, during ME-VE (or ME-SU) 

* traveled to USA, during ME-RA 

* established ISKCON, during ME-JU 
Ketu dasha ran 1971-1978. This was a complex period with both positives and nega- 
tives, due to (1) Ketu’s essential nature, (2) Ketu’s placement, and (8) Ketu’s influences. 


This period saw massive expansion of the ISKCON franchise through book distribution, 
but also Prabhupada’s death. 
* although Ketu sometimes manifests as worldly wealth, its essential nature is 
that of “the headless one”, ie, without ego, and is therefore associated with spiri- 
tuality. In fact, Ketu is the prime mokshakaraka. 
* Ketu is associated with the powerful 8th lord Sun. Thus, it can transform, give 
access to others’ money and/or bring accident/death. 
* Ketu is associated with 3rd/1 2th lord Jupiter. Thus, it can bring extensive trav- 
els, as well as surrender, moksha and death. 


* Ketu is aspected by 4th/11th lord Mars. Thus it can create supporters and gen- 
erate income. 


Prabhupada died 14 Nov 1977. If he was born at 15h54, this means he died in Ketu 
Oasha Mercury bhukti Rahu antara. 


* Dasha lord Ketu occupies the 8th and gives results predominantly for the pow- 
erful 8th lord Sun with which it is associated. 


* Ketu additionally gives results for Jupiter, lord of 3rd and 12th, with which it is 
associated, and Mars, lord of 4th and 11th, aspecting it. (Thus, all three moksha 
lords — Sun, Mars, Jupiter — are invoked during Ketu period.) 


* Bhukti lord Mercury gives results for Moon, a maraka (death-dealing) planet 
because it owns the 7th. 


* Mercury also functions on its own behalf, as lord of 6th and 9th. 


* Antara lord Rahu predominantly gives results for Sun and Jupiter (trik lords of 
8th and 12th) who aspect it 


*Rahu also acts for Saturn, karaka for death, and functions separately as a 
maraka planet because it occupies the 2nd. 


At the time of death, certain transits are meaningful: 


* Lagnesh Saturn was in the 8th, exactly conjunct the chhidra point (the heart of 
the 8th) at O6LE17. 


* Moon was in the 12th. 


Summary 


| believe Prabhupada had Capricorn rather than Sagittarius rising. A Capricorn ascen- 
dant supports his significant authorship and the major phases of his life, including fame 
and death. 


Although his rumored death by poisoning may be contentious and unable to prove, if it 
were indeed so, the Capricorn-rising chart also accounts for his poisoning, perhaps at 
the hands of those entrusted to his care. 


Tamil Goswami: Pretender to the throne 


Tamil Goswami was the successor to Swami Prabhupada, guru and founder of the In- 
ternational Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), commonly known as the “Hare 
Krishna Movement.” As mentioned in the previous article, a devotee client was keenly 
interested to know Prabhupada’s astrological chart. After my analysis on that was com- 
plete, it was only natural to turn my attention to that of his successor. 


However, without even an approximate birth time to begin with, or a variety of life events 
to use as corroboration, determining Goswami’s ascendant was a huge exercise in 
speculation. | decided to sidestep that whole problem by going straight to a Chan- 
dralagna configuration, effectively advancing the clock within Goswami's birthday (18 
June 1946) until the Moon was exactly rising, ie, on the ascendant. 


Tami Goswami 
Moonrise, 18 Jun 1946 


Harlem. USA 


Interestingly enough, this gives him a Capricorn ascendant too (because his Moon is in 
Capricorn). Question is, does the resulting chart reflect an ambitious, competitive, self- 
seeking individual capable of betraying his own guru? 


Goswami has a Papadhi Yoga formed by the presence of three malefics (Sun, Saturn 
and Mars) spread across houses 6-7-8. This yoga has the effect of concentrating its 
negative energy in the middle point (Saturn) of these three malefics, from which the en- 
ergy is then directed across the chart to the Moon. Since the Moon represents the per- 
ceptions and personality, this is at least some indication of a disturbed temperament. 
Moon/Saturn are in exchange, forming a Parivartana Yoga, which reflects the capacity 


for forming alliances and partnerships, a combination often seen in politicians and other 
professional networkers. 


The three kendra planets (Moon, Venus, Saturn) form four Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yogas, associated with the ability to wield power. 


Although not a yoga per se, the Sun and a strong Mercury in the 6th show great com- 
petitive spirit. 


Under this assumption, when Prabhupada died, Goswami would have been running 
Jupiter dasha, Mercury bhukti. Jupiter is karaka for guru and occupies the 9th house of 


the guru. During its dasha, Jupiter delivers results for its star-lord Mars which occupies 
the 8th and thus reflects the undoing (death) of the guru. 


Bhukti lord Mercury owns both the 6th and the 9th, thus reflecting a cross-current of 
competition with the guru. Mercury is a strong trik lord and in its period works to pro- 
duce results for its star-lord Jupiter, which is also a trik lord (ruling 12th and 3rd). 


Goswami himself died 15 March 2002 which, under this scheme, would have been Sat- 
urn dasha, Rahu bhukti. 


As both occupant of the 7th and lord of the 2nd, Saturn is a powerful maraka. Saturn 
also gives results for its nakshatra dispositor Jupiter, lord of the 12th. 


Rahu bhukti gives the results only of Jupiter which aspects it and Venus which is its sign 
lord. Jupiter is lord of the 12th, and Venus as occupant of the 7th is another maraka. 


Alternate ascendant: Cancer 


After a period of reflection, | decided to revisit the matter of Goswami’s ascendant. | 
used the KP method of rectification, which involves casting a prashna regarding the cor- 
rect lagna. 


There are five ruling planets for every chart: nakshatra-lord and sign-lord of the ascen- 
dant, nakshatra-lord and sign lord of the Moon, and the day lord. 


In my prashna the Moon was a ruling planet three times, Saturn twice. This indicated 
Goswami’s lagna should be within a Moon sign and a Saturn nakshatra, or a Saturn 
sign and a Moon nakshatra. 


Pushya (83CN20-16CN40) is a Saturn-ruled nakshatra in the Moon’s sign Cancer. 
Of the two Saturn-ruled signs, only Capricorn contains a Moon-ruled nakshatra — Shra- 


vana at 10CP00-23CP20. These are my choices. By coincidence, the moon-rise chart 
I'd used at the outset for Goswami’s tentative chart has already been analysed. 


Me 2244 


$a o110 by ‘ 


Ve o715 
AS 1102 
Tamal Goswami 4 
O08h27, 18 Jun 1946 


In the Pushya/Cancer rising chart, we see a Papakartari Yoga with SU-SA-MA on the 
lagna. The Parivartana Yoga between Moon and Saturn, reflecting Goswami’s role 
as Prabupada’s ambassador, seemingly reinforces either of these two ascendants as 


proper choices. 
The things we know about Goswamii’s life are: 


His parents divorced when he was seven. For this ascendant, it would have been early 
Mars dasha. In the 2nd, Mars disturbs the house of family. 


His mother died in 2013. Mercury dasha had just begun. Mercury is the lord of the 3rd, 
the undoing of the mother. Mercury is in a star of Jupiter, the occupant of the 3rd, which 
reinforces loss of mother. 


He met Prabhupada in 1967. It was Rahu dasha, Saturn bhukti. Rahu works for Jupiter 
who aspects it, and for its dispositor Venus. Jupiter is lord of 9th house, guru. Venus is 
lord of 11th, fulfillment. Saturn also works for its star-lord Jupiter, invoking the 9th again. 
For itself, Saturn as lord of 7/8 brings major relationship and transformation. 


He was initiated in 1968, during Rahu-Mercury. Mercury serves its star-lord Jupiter, 
which again invokes the 9th. Mercury also works for itself, which in its own sign in the 
12th, is a strong indicator for renunciation. 


Goswami went to Paris and then to Mumbai to promote Prabhupada’s books. This was 
Rahu dasha, Ketu bhukti. Ketu gives results only for Mars which both aspects and dis- 
posits it. Mars is in the 2nd of books, owns the 5th of spiritual purpose, and owns the 
10th of karma in the world. 

Early in 1971, Goswami took a spiritual wife. This was in Rahu-Venus. Venus gives re- 
sults for its star-lord Saturn who rules the 7th. 

A year later, he took sannyasa, still in Venus bhukti, now in Rahu antara. Again we’re 
returned to a 9th house focus. 

In the spring of 1976, Prabhupada criticized Goswami in public, who felt unjustly chas- 
tised and humiliated. This was in Rahu-Moon. With the Moon in its own star, this could 
have represented a radical reversal in Goswami’s public image and, therefore, his self- 


esteem. 


That summer, Prabhupada visited the New York temple where Goswami presided. 
Within two weeks, Prabhupada’s health deteriorated. This was in Goswami’s Rahu- 
Mars. Recall now that Mars participates in a Papakartari Yoga and occupies the 2nd 
house of food and drink and drugs. Mars works for its star-lord Ketu, who reciprocates, 
and we are struck by the notion of someone wielding “food” as a weapon. 


Prabhupada returned to India and Goswami followed in order to “help take care of him.” 
Within a year and a half, Prabnupada was dead. For Goswami it was the beginning of 
Jupiter dasha. 


Jupiter works for its star-lord Mars, who rules the 10th of ambition, while Jupiter itself 
rules the 6th (conquest of enemies) and the 9th of spiritual quest. For the rest of the 
dasha, Goswami remained in charge of ISKCON. 


Goswami enrolled in university in 1995. It was the beginning of Satum dasha. Saturn 
works for its star-lord Jupiter, who rules the 9th of higher education. He graduated with 
a BA in Religious Studies in the following bhukti of Mercury and went to Cambridge for 
his doctorate. 


After having retumed to India for a festival, Goswami died in a car accident in March 
2002. He was running Satum-Venus. Satum rules the 8th but also works for Jupiter in 
the 3rd of local travel (and undoing of vehicle.) Venus rules the 4th of vehicles yet works 
for its star-lord Saturn owning the 8th of accidents and death. 


Summary 


| favor the Pushya/Cancer chart to correspond to Goswami’s. | believe he was capable 
of cruelty, courtesy of the Papakartari Yoga and, between ambition and perceived insult, 
sought to depose his guru and take his place. 


Karma: Dridha vs adridha 


As astrologers we often grapple with notions of fate versus free will. The very premise 
of astrological prediction implies we’re capable of reading something in a client’s chart 
that says: this will happen, this won't. Whether we call that fate, destiny or karma is just 
semantics. The tacit understanding of Jyotish is that your life is to some degree predes- 
tined and, if a seer is capable of reading your chart, then you too can know your future. 


In the West, we’re less inclined to say que sera sera and blithely accept the cards we’re 
dealt. Rather we think, if | want it badly and work hard enough, my dream will come true 
— not because it’s written in the stars, but because | shaped my life according to my will. 


The truth for most people lies somewhere in between, but probably closer to the notion 
of fate than the strong-willed would like to believe. 


Karma is complicated, which is why Gandhi said, “After God created karma, He retired.” 
In fact, karma comes in several forms. 


Sanchita karma is the accumulated store of all actions, good and bad, performed by 
your reincarnating soul through all of its multiple lifetimes. Prarabdha karma is that which 
has matured and is now ready to be experienced in this individual life. Agama karma is 
merely thinking about doing something. Kriyamana karma is actually doing something. 


Individual charts are incredibly diverse. Where one person’s chart may say they will 
never experience a happy relationship, no matter how beautiful, wealthy or smart they 
might be, another’s chart may promise undying love in this lifetime, never mind how 
unattractive or poor they might be. 


When all signs in the chart point to success in a matter, the person is buoyed along by a 
current that carries him to its natural destination. When all signs point to failure, the per- 
son swims against a current that will never allow him to reach his destination. 


Consider three men of equal physique standing on the bank of a wide river. On the other 
side lies a jetty giving access to a town where all of life’s prizes are available for the tak- 


ing — relationship, career, wealth, fame, and so on. 


One man steps into the water. For him, the current is negligible, and he swims straight 
across the river, mounts the jetty and enters the village in casual triumph to take his 
choice of the available prizes. 


The second man dives into the river. For him, the current is brisk, but he aims for a point 
on the opposite shore well upstream of the jetty. Despite the river’s downstream pull, 
his steady efforts transport him as well to the jetty on the opposite shore. Exhausted but 
dogged, he staggers into town to claim what prizes remain. 


The third man plunges into the river. For him, the current is a tidal force, and it’s all he 
can do to keep his head above water, never mind keep the jetty in sight. Between his 
unplanned trajectory and the river’s powerful drag, his violent thrashing only succeeds in 
helping him reach the safety of the opposite bank, but a mile downstream of the town, 
There are no prizes for him. 


We are all destined to be swimmers, but we all face different rivers. In fact, we all face 
multiple rivers. For one, the river of relationship is calm, that of career is strong, that of 
children is dry, that of health conceals a whirlpool. For another person, river conditions 
could be all good, all bad, or haphazard. 


Our physical body (including its mental and spiritual attributes) and the river we face is 
our prarabdha karma. Our plan on how to cross the river is agama karma. Our execu- 
tion of that crossing is kriyamana karma. 


When the bias is strong for success or failure, we call that dridha (fixed) karma. So if you 
have a robust physique and the river is calm, crossing it is a sure thing; if you’re weak 
and the river is raging, you’ll drown. 


When there is no bias for either success or failure, we call that adridha (un-fixed) karma. 
So if you have a robust physique and the river is wild, the bookies give you even odds; 
likewise, if you’re weak and the river is calm. 


Every house in every chart has a pro-forma test for success or failure. Is the lord of 

that house strong, well-placed and supported by benefics, or is it weak, poorly-placed 
and afflicted by malefics? Is the house itself occupied or aspected by its own lord, by 
benefics or malefics? Is the karaka for that house strong or weak, well- or poorly-placed, 
influenced by benefics or malefics? 

Some charts have everything going for them; some have nothing. More often than not, 
there’s a mix, and then we call it dridha/adridha, or fixed/unfixed karma. In some rivers, 
things go swimmingly without much thought or effort. In other rivers, you need to think 
before you jump in, which, incidentally, even includes the option of not jumping in at all. 


Now that’s real free will. 


TECHNICAL 


Viparita Raja Yoga: Going under to cross over 


At some point in our mathematical education, we learned that two negatives can make 
a positive. For example, if we multiply two negative numbers, the product is positive. 
Logically, it doesn’t make sense, but mathematicians who know better say it does. Who 
are we to argue? 


The phenomenon of Viparita Raja Yoga demands a similar leap of faith, something 
along the lines of, if you can just counter-balance the right amount of misfortune in your 
chart, you’ll come out ahead. That doesn’t make sense either, but we’re a lot happier to 
buy into it than we were back in high school, doubting the utility of negative numbers in 
general. 


Viparita Raja Yoga 

Most practitioners of jyotish are familiar with the broad definition of Viparita Raja Yoga: 
that when a trik lord (a bad thing) goes to a trikasthana (a bad place), it creates a net 
benefit for the owner of that chart. This is analogous to the way society approves when 
we put a criminal in prison, a virally contagious person in a hospital isolation ward, or a 
psycho in a mental institution. 


Many students apply this quite liberally, citing the creation of Viparita Raja Yoga 
whenever the above occurs. But a careful reading of Parasara, Phaladeepika and Ut- 
tarakalamitra reveals a more stringent set of conditions for the formation of Viparita Raja 
Yoga: 
* Type A: The lord of a trikasthana must go to another trikasthana. Having a trik 
lord in its own house doesn’t qualify. Therefore, this requires one or more of the 
following: 6th lord in the 8th or 12th, and/or the 8th lord in the 6th or 12th, and/or 
the 12th lord in the 6th or 8th. 


* Type B: Alternatively, instead of trik lords moving to other trikasthanas, Viparita 
Raja Yoga can also be formed when any two or three trik lords form sambandha 
via association, mutual aspect or Parivartana Yoga between trik lords — and this 
can occur in any houses. 


* Strength: In both of the two types described above, the participating planets 
must have strength. In particular, at least one of the yoga-forming planets should 
have a first-class dignity, by which we mean swa rashi (own sign), exalted, retro- 
grade, dig bala, or swa nakshatra. 
In either type, there must be no involvement via association or aspect with any other 
(non-trik) planets, else there will be collateral damage. On the other hand, the associa- 
tion of any participating planet with the Rahu/Ketu axis is not a spoiler, since the nodes 
don’t own any houses via which to spread any misfortune. 


Type A examples 


Albert Einstein is a perfect example of the Type A formation. For a Gemini ascendant, the 
trik lords are Mars, Saturn and Venus. In his chart, 6th lord Mars is in the 8th with Rahu. 
Mars is exalted, so it has the necessary strength to qualify for Viparita Raja Yoga status. 
And the fact that Mars shares the 8th with Rahu doesn’t alter the nature of the yoga. 


Einstein won the Nobel Prize for Physics when running Moon-Mars. He fled Nazi Ger- 
many and came to the USA during his Mars dasha, which proved to be both a prudent 
and lucrative move. Although he immediately secured a teaching position at Princeton, 
he also became the proverbial “stranger in a strange land.” 


11h30, 14 Mar 1879 
Ulm, Germany 


Lee lacocca is another example of the Type A formation. For a Pisces ascendant, the trik 
lords are Sun, Venus and Saturn. In his chart, 8th lord Venus is in the 6th, while 12th lord 
Saturn is in the 8th. 

Although Venus is in swa nakshatra, granting it the necessary strength to generate yoga, 
it is aspected by Mars, which shatters its yoga potential. On the other hand, Saturn 

in the 8th is exalted and is in contact with no other planet, so its yoga power remains 
intact. 

After a major clash with Henry Ford at the end of his Jupiter dasha, lacocca was fired 
from his job. But in his Saturn dasha he was courted by Chrysler and went on to com- 
pletely rebuild the failing company, pioneering the mini-van concept, earning Presidential 
recognition and writing a popular biography. 


Lee lacocca 


17h00, 15 Oct 1924 
Allentown, USA 


Type B examples 


At first glance, Jacqueline Kennedy-Onassis also appears to have a Type A combination. 
For a Libra ascendant, the trik lords are Jupiter, Venus and Mercury. In her chart, 6th 
lord Jupiter is in the 8th with 8th lord Venus. And this combination is “clean” in that no 
other planet enters into the picture, neither by association nor by aspect. 


When we review the rules, however, we note that a trik lord in its own trikasthana 
doesn’t qualify, so that means Venus in this case can’t produce Viparita Raja Yoga. And 
when we examine Jupiter, we see that it has no strength. Therefore, neither of these 
planets on its own produces yoga. 


But if we consider these two trik lords as acting in concert, the combination qualifies 

as a Type B version of Viparita Raja Yoga. Here we have two trik lords, at least one of 
which is strong, and they are joined by association. As it happens, they’re both in the 
8th house, but that isn’t what grants them the yoga-generating power. Because they are 
trik lords joining forces, they could have done so in any house. 


The 8th comes into play when we consider two broad themes in her life. She married 
into the wealth of the Kennedy family with her first marriage, and into even more massive 
wealth in her second marriage to Aristotle Onassis. And her life was marked by tragedy 
- the assassination of both her husband John Kennedy and her brother-in-law Robert 
Kennedy. Jackie’s debutante ball, her entrance into “high-society,” came in Venus- 
Jupiter period. 


Jackie Kennedy-Onassis ; Sue 


14h30, 28 Jul 1929 
Southampton, USA Me 0931 


Woody Allen provides a simpler and less ambiguous example of the Type B Viparita 
Raja Yoga. For a Leo ascendant, the trik lords are Saturn, Jupiter, and the Moon. In his 
chart, 6th lord Saturn joins 12th lord Moon in the 7th house. 

The combination involves no other planet in association or aspect with this pair, so 
there’s no collateral damage. Also note that at least one of the pair is strong. In this case, 
Saturn is doubly dignified, being in its own sign and gaining dig bala in the 7th, easily 
qualifying it the power to generate yoga. 

As almost everyone knows, the source of Woody Allen’s stress is relationships. He’s 


been married three times, and involved in long-term relationships with Diane Keaton and 
Mia Farrow. The one with Farrow ended disastrously after she discovered his relation- 
ship with her adopted daughter Soon Yi, whom Allen subsequently married. 

His Saturn dasha ran 1972-91 and the 70s were particularly good for him. Annie Hall, 
the movie that perfectly dramatized his angst over relationships, and really established 
him as a bankable director, came out in 1977. 


Lana Turner’s chart is an unusual example of a Type B pattern in that it has three planets 
forming Viparita Raja Yoga. For a Gemini ascendant, the trik lords are Mars, Saturn and 
Venus. In her chart, the three aren’t all in one sign, but in sambandha via association 
and mutual aspect across opposite signs. 


No other planets are linked by association or aspect to this trio in 4th and 10th houses. 
Furthermore, all three participants are dignified. Saturn is retrograde, Mars has dig bala 
in the 10th, and Venus is exalted in Pisces. This gives the yoga all the potency it needs 
to deliver results. 


Turner was discovered at age 16 and acted in over 50 films, often projecting an aura 

of promiscuous sensuality. Her personal life was a mess — always in and out of sexual 
escapades, married eight times, her father murdered when she was nine, while her own 
daughter stabbed one of Lana’s lovers to death. But she enjoyed the status of a serious 
actress and in her Saturn-Saturn period she received an Academy nomination for Pey- 
ton Place. 


12h30. 08 Feb 1921 6 
Wallace, Idaho SaR vos 
JuR 2410 
1 Me 124 


7 
Ra ce1 “oN Mow 
Ra cet: SaR oosr 
Su 2848 


Thus, in these five charts we’ve seen examples of both Type A and Type B patterns. 
Whereas Type A needs only a trik lord in another trikasthana, Type B requires two or 
more trik lords in any house. But both types require that one or more of the participating 
planets have strength, and be free of influence from other planets. 


Although these Type B examples didn’t explore all possible permutations, we should 
note that, if a pair of yoga-making planets is of mixed dignity, eg, one exalted, the other 
debilitated, the stellar qualities of the yoga are likely to be diluted. In such a case, the 
native might yet suffer the consequences of a weak participant, while only partially en- 
joying the benefits promised by a strong one. 


Yoga vichara is vital. Scrutiny and evaluation separate the wheat from the chaff, and 


thus provide the discriminating jyotishi the critical judgment by which to offer interpreta- 
tions or predictions that rise above the superficial. 


Conclusion 


Mathematics of yogas, part 1: Pancha Mahapurusha, Chandra Man- 
gala, Maha Bhagya 


As astrologers, we routinely scan astrological charts looking for yogas. If we’re obser- 
vant, we’ll notice that some yogas turn up frequently, while others turn up only rarely. 
And if we're scientifically-inclined, some of us might ask ourselves, what are the odds of 
seeing this or that yoga? But if you’re not inclined to engage in that kind of analysis, then 
sit back and relax, because I’ve done the heavy lifting for you. 


Pancha Mahapurusha Yoga 


There are lots of yogas we could look at, but to whet your appetite for this, we'll start 
with the simplest, which involves only one planet. The Pancha Mahapurusha Yoga is 
formed when one of the true planets occupies: 


(1) the sign of its ownership or exaltation, and 
(2) a kendra. 


The true planets are Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. Each planet rules two 
signs, and each planet has one sign in which it is exalted. That means there are three 
signs where each of these planets can qualify for a Pancha Mahapurusha Yoga, except 
for Mercury, which has only two signs to make the grade, since Virgo is the sign of both 
its ownership and its exaltation. 


* The odds of Mars being in Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn are 3/12. 
* The odds of Mercury being in Gemini or Virgo are 2/12. 
* The odds of Jupiter being in Cancer, Sagittarius or Pisces are 3/12. 
* The odds of Venus being in Taurus, Libra or Pisces are 3/12. 
* The odds of Saturn being in Libra, Capricorn or Aquarius are 3/12. 
* The odds of any planet being in a kendra are 4/12. 

The following table summarizes the odds for such yogas to appear: 


Table 3: Odds of any of the five true planets ile Mahapurusha Yoga 


(SxA} 


7 See ee 


Venus (Malavya) | an2 | ane | 12/144 1/12 8.33% 


So the next time you see a Bhadra Yoga, take note, because now you know it’s more 
rare than any of the other Pancha Mahapurusha Yogas. 


Chandra Mangala Yoga 


Next let’s examine the simplest of the two-planet yogas. A Chandra Mangala Yoga is 
formed when the Moon and Mars are either in the same or opposite signs. What are the 
odds? 


* The odds of Moon and Mars being in the same or opposite sign are 2/12. 


Therefore, the odds of finding a Chandra Mangala Yoga are 2/12 = 1/6, or 16.67%. In 
other words, one out of six charts will have one. 


In the case of Pancha Mahapurusha Yoga, the qualification was two-fold: the planet 
had to be strong by sign (own or exalted) and it had to be well-placed (kendra). 


But in the case of the Chandra Mangala Yoga, the threshold for its formation is set very 
low — the planets need only associate or mutually aspect each other. But what if we de- 
manded that the yoga be strong in some way or other, such as having Mars or the Moon 
strong by sign? 


* The odds of Moon being in Taurus or Cancer are 2/12. 
* The odds of Mars being in Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn are 3/12. 


In fact, we can now use these two examples to create a powerful Chandra Mangala 
Yoga: 


* Moon in Taurus (1/12) and Mars in Scorpio (1/12) = 1/144, or 0.69% 
* Moon in Cancer (1/12) and Mars in Capricorn (1/12) = 1/144, or 0.69% 


From this, we can see that, whereas the formation of a basic Chandra Mangala Yoga is 
relatively common (16.67%), the appearance of one in which both planets are strong by 
sign is quite rare (0.69%). 


Maha Bhagya Yoga 


For a change of pace, let’s now consider a yoga that involves something in addition to 
the planets. Maha Bhagya Yoga is formed under two scenarios: 


(1) aman is born during the day with the Ascendant, Sun and Moon in one of the 
male signs (fire or air) 


(2) a woman is bor during the night with the Ascendant, Sun and Moon in one 
of the female signs (earth or water) 


What are the odds? 
* The odds of being a man (or a woman) are 1/2. 
* The odds of being born in the day (or night) are 1/2. 
* The odds of the lagna in a male (or female) sign are 6/12, or 1/2. 
* The odds of the Sun in a male (or female) sign are 6/12, or 1/2. 
* The odds of the Moon in a male (or female) sign are 6/12, or 1/2. 


Therefore, the odds of being a man born in the day with ascendant, Sun and Moon in 
one of the male signs are: 1/2 x 1/2 x 1/2 x 1/2 x 1/2 = 1/82, or 3.13%. Similarly, for a 
woman born at night with female signs. So the next time you see a Maha Bhagya Yoga 
in a chart, remind yourself that only three people in a hundred will have one. 


Mathematics of yogas, part 2: Budhaditya, Kesari, Kujadosha 


Budhaditya Yoga 


Budhaditya Yoga, deemed the signature of an intellect capable of analysis, communica- 
tion and discrimination, is found frequently... Or less so, depending on our definition. 


The basic requirement is that the Sun and Mercury be in the same sign. Since Mercury 
is an “inferior” planet whose orbit lies within Earth’s, it is never more than 28 degrees 
from the Sun. 


No matter what sign the Sun is, we’ll see Mercury in the same sign, the one before, or 
the one after. In other words, regarding the Sun’s proximity, Mercury can only be in three 
signs out of 12, ie, 1/4, or 25% of the time. 


Amore rigorous definition of Budhaditya Yoga demands one of the following three con- 
ditions in addition: 


(1) The Sun/Mercury pair occupies or aspects the 1st or 5th house. The 1st is 
the atma, or Self; the 5th house is the buddhi, or intellect. The Sun/Mercury pair 
can only occupy or aspect the 1st or 5th house from four houses — the 1st, 5th, 
7th or 11th. Four houses out of 12 qualify, so 1/3, ie, 33% of the time. 


(2) The Sun rules the 1st or 5th house. If the ascendant is Leo (Sun-ruled) then 
the Sun/Mercury pair can occupy any house. If the ascendant is Aries, the 5th 
house (Leo) is ruled by the Sun, and again the Sun/Mercury pair can be any- 
where. This happens two times out of 12, or 1/6, ie, 16.7% of the time. 


(3) Mercury rules the 1st or 5th house. This comes easier because Mercury 
owns two signs. If Gemini or Virgo rises, Mercury rules the ascendant. If Aquarius 
or Taurus rises, Mercury rules the 5th house (Gemini or Virgo, respectively). This 
happens four times out of 12, or 1/3, ie, 33% of the time. 


So what are the final odds of forming Budhaditya Yoga under the more demanding 
definition? 


* For Sun/Mercury together, while occupying or aspecting a key house, odds are: 


1/4 x 1/3 = 1/12, or 8.38% of the time. 


* For Sun/Mercury together, while the Sun rules a key house, odds are: 1/4 x 1/6 
= 1/24, or 4.2% of the time. 


* For Sun/Mercury together, while Mercury rules a key house, odds are: 1/4 x 1/3 
= 1/12, or 8.3% of the time. 


Since each of these is an independent condition, the chance of one or the other forming 
is the sum of their odds: 8.3 + 4.2 + 8.3 = 20.8%. In other words, one in five people has 
a “qualified” Budhaditya Yoga. 


Kesari Yoga 


Phaladeepika defines Kesari Yoga as any situation where the Moon and Jupiter are in 
kendra to each other. This is relatively common. Imagine Jupiter occupies a movable 
sign. Now as the Moon circles the zodiac, it will become angular to Jupiter four times 
- in each of the movable signs. Similarly, if Jupiter is in fixed signs, the Moon will form 
Kesari Yoga when in fixed signs. And so on for dual signs. Thus the Moon has four op- 
portunities in 12, or a 33% chance, to be kendra to Jupiter. 


Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra defines a more demanding version — the Gaja 
Kesari Yoga — in requiring that Jupiter be in an angle from the ascendant or the 
Moon, and be conjoined with or aspected by benefics without being debilitated, 
combust, or in an enemy's sign. 


But as Hart de Fouw says in Light on Life, it’s still important for Jupiter and the Moon to 
be in good houses from the ascendant, ie, not in dusthana. How often does a planet oc- 
cupy a bad house? Since there are four dusthanas (8rd, 6th, 8th, 12th) then a planet is 
poorly placed one-third of the time, therefore in a positive house two-thirds of the time. 


So for Moon to be kendra to Jupiter and in a positive house, we can calculate the odds: 
1/3 x 2/3 = 2/9, or 22.2%. 


We might also suggest that, for the yoga to be strong, Jupiter and/or the Moon should 
be in good signs. Moon occupies Cancer or Taurus two times out of 12. So for the 
Moon to be kendra to Jupiter, in a positive house and in a good sign, the odds are: 1/3 x 
2/3 x 1/6 = 2/54, or 3.7%. 


Jupiter occupies its signs of dignity - Cancer, Sagittarius and Pisces — three times out of 
12. So for the Jupiter to be kendra to the Moon, in a positive house and in a good sign, 
the odds are: 1/3 x 2/3 x 1/4 = 2/36, or 5.5%. 


Although there are other sources of strength to consider, eg, full Moon, retrograde 
Jupiter, and dig bala for either planet, this brief analysis gives you an idea of relative 
frequency. The entry level Kesari Yoga occurs in a third of all charts, but a strong planet 
well-placed in that yoga will be seen on only one chart out of 20, or 5% of the time. 


If you find a strong Kesari Yoga in a chart, chances are the individual will manifest some 
guru-like qualities, similar to what we’d find in any good teacher or advisor. These are 


optimism, self-knowledge, comfort in social situations, the ability to gain rapport with 
others, and a capacity to educate or counsel people. 


Kujadosha 


Whereas an astrological “yoga” is a pattern typically denoting some benefit, a “dosha” is 
one that indicates a blemish or defect. 


Kujadosha or mangaladosha (manglik) is a pattern wherein Mars afflicts the houses 

of family or relationship, and thus creates marital discord. This happens with Mars in 
houses 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, or 12 — from whence it will either occupy or aspect the 2nd or 7th 
houses. This condition can be aggravated from the perspective of either the ascendant, 
the Moon or Venus. 

The ascendant represents the Self, the Moon is the manas or emotional mind, and 


Venus represents the affections. To have one or the other agitated by Mars is common 
enough, but to have all three disturbed is potentially the sign of a difficult love life. 


What are the odds? 


Since Mars can create kujadosha in six out of 12 houses, then the chances are 50/50 
from the perspective of the ascendant. Likewise from the Moon, and the same again 
from Venus. But for kujadosha to occur from aif three, the odds are 1/2 x 1/2 x 1/2 = 
1/8, or 12.5%. 


A weak Mars would make such a condition even worse. Mars is debilitated in Cancer, 
but that is only one sign out of 12. So for a person to have triple kujadosha with a weak 
Mars, the odds would be 1/8 x 1/12 = 1/96, or just 1%. 


Some pundits say an active kujadosha can only be matched with another kujadosha. 
For a couple to each have triple kujadosha in their charts, irrespective of Mars’ condi- 
tion, the odds would be 1/8 x 1/8 = 1/64, or 1.5%. This could make for a rare couple — 
although perhaps rare in that they might scarcely get any peace from each other. As in, 
man who fight all day get no piece at night... 


Mathematics of yogas, part 3: Parivartana Yoga 


Parivartana Yoga 


Parivartana Yoga is formed when two planets simultaneously occupy a sign ruled by the 
other, eg, with Saturn in Cancer and Moon in Capricorn, or Mars in Leo with the Sun in 
Scorpio, and so on. The two houses thus occupied and ruled become the focus of a 
symbiotic relationship rich for interpretation. In western astrology, this pattern is called 
mutual reception, or planetary exchange. 


Indira Gandhi 
23h11, 19 Nov 1917 


Allahabad, India 


Mutual reception is not an equal-opportunity game. The true planets (Mars, Mercury, 
Jupiter, Venus and Satum) have the greatest opportunity for exchange because they 
each own two signs. The Sun and Moon have the least opportunity because they own 
only one sign apiece. 


In theory, mutual reception allows for the exchange of 12 house lords in 66 combina- 
tions. In practice, however, only 57 are possible for any given ascendant. Of the nine 
excluded, examination of any chart will reveal five by virtue of dual rulership, and four 
due to astronomical limitation: 


* Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn each own two houses in every chart. 
By definition, none can exchange places with itself. For an Aries ascendant, 
there’s no exchange between the 1st and 8th houses because Mars rules both. 
Likewise, the 3rd/6th are both ruled by Mercury, the 9th/12th by Jupiter, the 
2nd/7th by Venus, and the 10th/11th by Saturn. Similar logic governs every other 
ascendant. Five combinations of mutual reception are thus excluded — one for 
each dual house lord. 


* Mercury and Venus are called “inferior” planets because their orbits lie within 
that of the Earth’s. From a geocentric point of view, the angular separation be- 
tween the Sun and either of them is restricted. Mercury is never more than 28 
degrees from the Sun, while Venus can’t exceed 48 degrees. Therefore, there’s 
no exchange between the lords of Leo and Gemini, since this would require the 
Sun and Mercury to be 30+ degrees apart, which is impossible. Likewise, no ex- 


change between Leo and Taurus, which would require the Sun and Venus to be 
60+ degrees apart, also impossible. Thus, two combinations are excluded. 


* For similar reasons, there can be no mutual reception between Gemini and 
Libra, or between Taurus and Virgo. For Mercury and Venus to exchange across 
two air signs, or two earth signs, they would have to be separated by the span 
of three intervening signs, or 90+ degrees apart. Yet at maximum angular sep- 
aration from each other, Mercury is 28 degrees on one side of the Sun, Venus 
48 degrees on the other side, for a total separation of only 76 degrees. So their 
exchange between same-element signs is impossible. Thus, another two combi- 
nations are excluded. 


The odds of any planet forming Parivartana Yoga 


Although | don’t have the means to perform a scientific analysis of the astronomical 
potential for mutual reception between any pair of planets, logic alone will get us pretty 
close to whatever the reality is. Take for example, mutual receptions with the Sun. 


If the Sun is in Leo, there is no mutual reception. 


The odds of the Sun being in Cancer are one in 12, or 8.33%. The odds of the Moon 
being in Leo are also one in 12, or 8.33%. The odds of finding (at the same time) the Sun 
in Cancer and the Moon in Leo are therefore one in 144, or 0.69%. 


If the Sun is in Aries, the same logic as above says the odds for mutual reception with 
Mars in Leo are also 0.69%. But since Mars owns two signs, equal odds apply for an 
exchange between the Sun in Scorpio and Mars in Leo. Therefore, for a Sun/Mars 
exchange, the chances that they will form a mutual reception are actually 1.39%. (Two 
chances at 0.69% each = 1.39% for both, with values rounded to two decimal places.) 


If the Sun is in Sagittarius or Pisces, the same logic says the chances for an exchange 
with Jupiter are also 1.39%. Ditto for the Sun in Capricorn or Aquarius, in exchange with 
Saturn. 


With the inferior planets, it’s a little more complicated, but no less logical. If the Sun’s in 
Gemini, we won't find Mercury in Leo, because it can’t be more than 28 degrees from 
the Sun. So the odds for that exchange are zero. If the Sun’s in Taurus, we won't find 
Venus in Leo, because it can’t be more than 48 degrees from the Sun. So the odds for 
that exchange are also zero. 


But if the Sun’s in Virgo, chances are good to find Mercury in Leo because it’s the 
adjacent sign. In fact, Mercury could only be in Leo, Virgo or Libra, so its odds of being 
in position to exchange are one in three. Multiply that by the odds of Sun being in Virgo 
(one in 12) and you get the probability of Sun and Mercury in exchange across Virgo and 
Leo being 2.78%. 


Similarly, if the Sun’s in Libra, chances are fair to find Venus in Leo. Recall that Venus 
can be up to 48 degrees away from the Sun. Depending on the Sun’s position within 
Libra, this allows Venus to range anywhere between mid-Leo to mid-Sagittarius. So the 


chances are (at best) one in five that Venus would be in Leo. Multiply that by the odds of 
the Sun in Libra and you get the probability of Sun and Venus in exchange across Libra 
and Leo being 1.67%. 


Following the same logic as described in the above three paragraphs, we can also 
calculate the potential for mutual receptions between Mercury and Venus. For the 
outer planets (Mars, Jupiter, Saturn), their unfettered freedom of movement allows a 
much simpler exercise in logic. The following table summarizes the odds for any given 
exchange. 


Table 4: Chances of any planet forming Parivartana Yoga 


Planet Odds of exchange with 
another planet 


a a 


Mercury 13.5% 


re 
Ce 
es 


After taking care to eliminate any instances of double-counting, this analysis renders a 
probability that approximately 43% of all charts, natal or otherwise, will exhibit at least 
one mutual reception. In fact, this very figure is borne out by research I’ve conducted 

using over 15,000 birth charts with accurate data (Rodden “AA” or “A” rating). 


Since there are seven planets available to exchange across 12 signs, some charts will 
have two Parivartana Yogas, involving four different planets in exchange. This, however, 
happens in only 3% of charts. 


The most Parivartana Yogas to be found in any chart, natal or otherwise, are three. This 
is quite rare, and happens in only 0.03% of charts, or three out of 10,000. One such ex- 
ample is the chart of Indira Gandhi, shown at the outset of this article. 


Those interested in learning more about planetary exchange, including how to interpret 
it in a natal chart, are encouraged to acquire my book ParivarTANA YoGA, available in 
both digital and paper formats through online retailers. To study the same phenomenon 
through the lens of western astrology, see my expanded companion volume, Murua 
RECEPTION. 


Mathematics of yogas, part 4: Raja Yoga 


Raja Yoga in a natal chart is perhaps the penultimate birthday gift, signifying the individ- 
ual’s karmic capacity to harness individual effort and good fortune. Although its name 
alone implies that it’s a combination fit for a king, this yoga is nonetheless often found in 
the charts of “normal” people. Therefore, one may well ask, is it rare or is it common? 


If we reflect upon the Raja Yoga’s more descriptive name — Dharma Karma Adhipati 
Yoga — we find the root of its astrological definition. Thus, it is a yoga involving the posi- 
tive combination of dharma (trinal/trikona) and karma (angular/kendra) house lords. 


The dharma houses are the 1st, 5th, and 9th, signifying among other things ethical, 
honorable or right action. When one follows dharma, one does no wrong, and good for- 
tune should (logically) accompany the individual. 


The karma houses are the 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th. They represent actions the individual 
takes, which are observed by others, and which subsequently reflect upon the reputa- 
tion of the person performing such actions. It’s generally assumed that in order to wield 
any power, in one’s own affairs or those of the world, the individual should have at least 
one or more planets in an angular house, or one or more combinations involving angular 
with trinal lords. 


When considering the possibilities for such combinations, we find there are hypothet- 
ically only 11 such yogas per chart. Since the ascendant is considered both a trikona 
and a kendra, the lagnesh is one of the most potent planets in the chart to form yogas 
with other planets. 


If we take the lord of the 1st house as a trikona lord, it can form yogas with the lords of 
the 4th, 7th, and 10th (kendras). If we take it as a kendra lord, it can form yogas with the 
lords of the 5th and 9th (trikonas). Thus we see that the lagnesh alone has the potential 
to form Raja Yoga with other planets five (5) times. 

After that, however, as we work our way around the chart, the planets are strictly kendra 
or trikona lords. So the 4th lord (kendra) can only form Raja Yoga with the lords of the 
5th or 9th (trikonas). The 5th lord (trikona) can only form Raja Yoga with the lords of the 


7th or 10th (kendras). The 7th lord can only form yoga with the lord of the 9th. The 9th 
lord can only form yoga with the lord of the 10th. 


Thus, after the lagnesh, the remaining kendra and trikona lords have only six (6) pos- 
sibilities to form Raja Yoga among the other house lords that remain as we circle the 
chart. So in total, we have the hypothetical possibility for 11 Raja Yoga in a chart. 


In reality, however, some ascendants can’t achieve that. This is because the word yoga 
itself implies union, ie, one planet with another. By definition, one planet can’t combine 
with itself. 


So for charts whose ascendants are ruled by Mercury or Jupiter, their potential for Raja 
Yoga is curtailed. If Gemini or Virgo is rising, lagnesh Mercury cannot form yoga with the 
4th or 10th lord, respectively, because they are one and the same planet. Similarly, if 
Sagittarius or Pisces rises, lagnesh Jupiter cannot form yoga with the 4th or 10th lord, 
respectively, because they are one and the same. 


In six other ascendants we encounter a yogakaraka planet, ie, one which rules both a 
kendra and a trikona. If we consider the yogakaraka as bisexual, that means it has more 
opportunities to find a qualified partner. For Venus-ruled ascendants, the yogakaraka is 
Satum. For Saturn-ruled ascendants, it is Venus. For ascendants ruled by Sun or Moon, 
it is Mars. Although the yogakaraka planet has a switch-hitting potential to form yoga 
with other planets, by definition it cannot form yoga with itself. 


Lastly, we have the Mars-ruled ascendants, in whose charts there are technically no 
restrictions to forming the full complement of 11 yogas. Although there is no yogakaraka 
for these ascendants, neither is there a planet ruling two angles. Except for the lagnesh 
itself, each of the other kendra and trikona lords are different planets, thus allowing a full 
range of intermingling in order to form yoga. 


To review, the basic rule for forming Dharma Karma Adhipati Yoga is that (1) a kendra 
lord must combine with a trikona lord, while (2) these lords cannot be one and the same 
planet. 


Aside from the above, the only other restriction is astronomical reality. Let’s take Saturn 
as one potential participant in yoga. To form yoga with it, the Sun must be associated 
with Saturn or opposed it — in the same or opposite sign, allowing just two signs out of a 
possible 12. Expressed as odds, that’s one in six, or a 16.7% chance that Sun and Sat- 
urn will form sambandha. And if they own the requisite houses, they will form yoga. 


The same rule applies to most other pairs. The Moon, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn have 
completely unrestricted movement, and can be found anywhere among the other 12 
houses/signs with respect to each other, and with respect to the Sun, Mercury and 
Venus. 


Among these latter three, however, their relative freedom of movement among them- 
selves is tied to an astronomical reality. Mercury and Venus are inferior planets which, 
from the Earth’s point of view, are always seen somewhere near the Sun. Since Mercury 
can never exceed 28 degrees distance from the Sun, it’s always in the same sign as the 


Sun, or one of the adjacent signs. One possibility out of three gives them a 33% chance 
of sambandgha. 


Since Venus can never exceed 48 degrees distance from the Sun, then it’s always in the 
same sign as the Sun or one of the two adjacent signs on either side. One possibility out 
of five gives them a 20% chance of sambandha. 


Even if Mercury is 28 degrees on one side of the Sun, and Venus 48 degrees on the 
other, those two inferior planets can never be more than 76 degrees apart. So if we took 
Venus as being the stationary point, that means Mercury could be 76 degrees earlier in 
the zodiac, or 76 degrees later. So if Venus was in early Aries, Mercury could be back in 
mid-Capricorn. Or if Venus was in late Aries, Mercury could be ahead in mid-Cancer. 


So if Venus were in Aries, Mercury could range from Capricorn to Cancer, a span of 
seven signs. So the odds of Mercury and Venus being in sambandha are roughly one in 
seven (14%). 

When we crunch through all these numbers, using logic as a guide and a spreadsheet 
as a calculator, we get a hierarchy of ascendants. The ones at the top have the greatest 
odds of their planets forming Raja Yoga, the ones at the bottom have the least. 


Table 5: Chances of any ascendant facilitating Raja Yoga 


When we examine these results, we see four tiers of potential: 


(1) Tier 1 comprises the Mars-ruled ascendants. Aries and Scorpio have the 
greatest potential to form Raja Yoga. Coincidentally, Mars gains dig bala in the 
10th house, and is a kshatriya planet with a natural disposition for command and 
control. And the 10th house is the primary house of karma. 


(2) Tier 2 entails Taurus and Aquarius. Each has a yogakaraka, Saturn and 
Venus, respectively, acting as 9th lord. The 9th house is the primary house of 
dharma. 


(3) Tier 3 involves Leo, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn, all hovering just a little above 
average chance of forming Raja Yoga. For Leo and Cancer rising, Mars is the 
yogakaraka — owning the 9th and 5th houses, respectively. For Libra and Capri- 
corn, their respective yogarakaras, Saturn and Venus, both own the 5th house. 


(4) Tier 4 covers the mutable ascendants Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces. 
For dual signs rising, there is no yogakaraka. Therefore, none of these ascen- 
dants offers a planet that can rule a dharma and karma house at the same time. 


As we look back on this, consider the initial premise of the Raja Yoga — a person with a 
good heart (dharma) and a steady hand (karma). We can see in these four tiers a hierar- 
chy of control. 


Aries and Scorpio share a 10th-house capacity at the zenith of the chart. Taurus and 
Aquarius have a 9th house capacity, descending from the zenith. 


Leo and Cancer have a mixed influence of 9th and 5th houses, dipping across the hori- 
zon from one dharma house to another. Libra and Capricorn share a 5th-house theme, 
now well below the horizon. 


The dual signs, having no yogakaraka, may indeed represent the nadir of potentiality, at 


least insofar as “kingship” or its modern equivalent goes. But that only implies their rai- 
son d’etre may well lie elsewhere, in business, education or the media. 


Mathematics of yogas, part 5: Dhana Yoga 


It’s a truism in the medical world that the best guarantee of longevity is to be born to 
healthy parents. For those who take their health for granted, the next-most-desired as- 
pect of a perfect life is to be born rich or, if that’s not possible, with a birth chart contain- 
ing multiple wealth yogas. 


Although there are variations on the theme, a typical Dhana Yoga demands a combina- 
tion of two planets involving (1) lord of a dharma house and (2) lord of a dhana house. 
The dharma houses, associated with luck and good fortune, are the first, the fifth and 
the ninth. The dhana houses, associated with money, are the second and the eleventh. 


Combinations can be formed by either an association of the two requisite planets, or a 
mutual aspect. In the latter case, that’s usually from opposite signs; for Mars and Saturn, 
also when Satum is four signs following Mars. 


Given the simplicity of Dhana Yoga, one might assume all ascendants have an equal 
opportunity to form yogas among their dharma and dhana lords. But in reality, this isn’t 
so. Depending on the ascendant, it might be easier, more difficult, or downright impossi- 
ble, for certain combinations to form. 


The simple reason is, not all planets enjoy unlimited freedom with respect to each other. 
Although all planets can associate with each other, not all planets are capable of mutu- 
ally aspecting each other from opposite signs. 


Inferior planets are the proverbial flies in the ointment. Mercury can’t be more than 28 
degrees from the Sun, Venus no more than 48 degrees. By extension of the same logic, 
Mercury and Venus can’t be more than (28+48=) 76 degrees apart. Therefore, if Dhana 
Yoga demands combined participation among the Sun, Mercury or Venus, they’re only 
capable of association, never of opposition. This changes the odds of forming Dhana 
Yoga for those ascendants where the Sun, Mercury and/or Venus are dharma or dhana 
lords. 


Following is a rank-ordered list of all ascendants, from those with the greatest odds of 
forming Dhana Yoga, to those with the least chance: 


Table 6: Chances of any ascendant facilitating Dhana Yoga 


me 
a 
ee 
fom | om 
ee a 
a a 


To illustrate this, let’s consider a Libra lagna chart, which has the greatest potential to 
form Dhana Yoga. The dharma lords of the 1st, 5th and 9th, respectively, are Venus, 
Saturn and Mercury. The dhana lords of the 2nd and 11th are Mars and the Sun. To 
form Dhana Yoga, Venus must combine with Mars or the Sun. Or Saturn must do so 
with Mars or the Sun. Or Mercury with Mars or the Sun. 


In the case of Venus, it enjoys unlimited freedom with respect to Mars, combining by 
association or opposing aspect from any two signs out of 12. But regarding the Sun, 
Venus can never be more than 48 degrees away. Therefore, it’s always found in the 
same sign, or in one of two signs on either side of the Sun, therefore, one chance in five 
of forming yoga. 


For Satum, it’s completely free with respect to either Mars or the Sun. It forms asso- 


ciations or opposing aspects with both and, in the case of Mars, enjoys an additional 
opportunity for sambandha when Saturn is in the 4th sign from Mars, from which posi- 
tion they mutually aspect each other. 


Finally, regarding Mercury, it’s completely free with respect to Mars, forming associa- 
tions or opposing aspects. But as an inferior planet, Mercury can never be more than 28 
degrees from the Sun. It’s either in the same sign or in one of the signs adjacent, there- 
fore one chance in three of forming yoga. 


For five ascendants - all of the earth signs and two of the water signs — one planet or 
another is both dharma lord and dhana lord. Since by definition of the term, yoga can’t 
be formed by a planet combining with itself, this diminishes for those ascendants the 
chances to form Dhana Yoga with the available planets. 


For Leo and Aquarius ascendants, Mercury or Jupiter, respectively, is the only dhana 
lord for that ascendant, ruling both the 2nd and 11th houses. This actually diminishes 
the odds for that ascendant to form Dhana Yoga. In the average chart, each of three 
dharma lords has the possibility of forming sambangha with one or the other of the two 
dhana lords. 


But in the case of these latter two ascendants, there is effectively only one dhana lord. 
If a dharma lord connects with that planet, it will thus form two Dhana Yogas, one with 
the 2nd lord, and one with the 11th lord. But that’s putting all one’s eggs in one basket. 
By having only one planet instead of two as dhana lord, that reduces the odds of the 
dharma lords making the requisite connection. 


Consider Aquarius lagna, which has the worst chances of all ascendants to form Dhana 
Yoga. Here the dharma lords are Saturn, Mercury and Venus, while Jupiter is the sole 
dhana lord, representing both the 2nd and 11th houses. Since Saturn, Mercury and 
Venus enjoy unlimited freedom of movement with respect to Jupiter, each has two signs 
out of 12 wherein sambandha via association or mutual aspect is possible. 


For every such valid contact, two Dhana Yogas are formed — one with Jupiter as 2nd 
lord, the other with Jupiter acting as 11th lord. But there it ends. The fact remains that 
the dharma lords have only one dhana lord with which yoga can be formed. For an 
analogy, consider the popular Vegas card game of blackjack, wherein the initial two- 
card deal of an ace along with a ten or any face card could deliver the perfect hand. But 
remove just one ace from the deck, and the odds of being dealt that winning hand drop 
immediately. 


Admittedly, life is not a game of cards but, in the realm of astrological yogas, chance still 
plays a remarkable role. Unless, of course, it’s just your good karma. 


Mathematics of yogas, part 6: Viparita Yoga 


Not every cloud has a silver lining, but when it does, it provides an example of how 
Viparita Yoga works. This yoga operates on the principle that, effectively, two wrongs 
make a right. For the mathematically-inclined, this is like multiplying two negative num- 
bers and getting a positive, as in (-2) x (-5) = 10. 
For those who prefer examples from the world of sociology, let’s assume most of society 
is good, and should be allowed to circulate freely, except for three types of individual: 

* The physically ill, infected with a dangerous and contagious disease, 

* Criminals, whose propensity for violence threatens law and order, and 

* The insane, whose uncontrolled behavior poses a threat to public safety. 
When such negative elements are recognized and properly controlled, the sick are iso- 
lated in a hospital, the criminals are put in prison, and the insane are placed in a mental 
asylum. There's a place for every “undesirable” and every undesirable should be in his 
place. 
In astrology, the trikasthanas represent the “bad neighborhoods” of the chart, and the 
trik lords represent, for example, the sick (6th), the criminal (8th), and the insane (12th). 


Viparita Yoga occurs when two or more trik lords move to other trikasthanas not owned 
by them. Like a bad guy obliged to leave his own bad neighborhood, to seek refuge in 
another equally bad ‘hood. For example, this requires the 6th lord moving to the 8th or 
12th house, the 8th lord moving to the 6th or 12th house, and/or the 12th lord moving to 
the 6th or 8th house. 


The odds of each trik lord finding itself in another trikasthana not its own are two out of 
12, or one in six, ie, a 16.7% chance for a Viparita “Lite.” The odds of this happening 
simultaneously for two trik lords are 1/6 x 1/6 = 1/36, or a 2.8% chance for a “Medium” 
Viparita. The odds of all three trik lords achieving this at the same time are 1/6 x 1/6 x 
1/6 = 1/216, or a mere 0.5% chance for a “Pure” Viparita. 


No matter which planets end up becoming trik lords, all 12 ascendants can allow two of 


these trik lords to occupy other trikasthanas not their own. All of mankind has a 2.8% 
chance of forming this “Medium” Viparita Yoga. 


But a “Pure” Viparita Yoga involves a full mafa or garland of all three trik lords migrating 
to other trikasthanas not owned by them. What are the odds of this for the 12 ascen- 
dants? 


Four classes of ascendants are ranked here by chance of forming a pure Viparita Yoga: 


Tier 1 Tier 2 


aA bod 


INGEN KK 


(1) Tier 1 comprises eight ascendants — the first six signs, Aries (illustrated here) 
through Virgo — plus Sagittarius and Aquarius. If you examine the trik lords for 
these eight ascendants, you'll find those three planets all enjoy freedom of move- 
ment with respect to their fellow trik lords. The chances for any of these eight as- 
cendants to have a pure Viparita Yoga is 0.5%. 


(2) Tier 2 involves only ascendants Libra and Scorpio (illustrated here). For exam- 
ple, with Scorpio rising, the 6th lord is Mars, 8th lord is Mercury, 12th lord Venus. 
Although Mars can range anywhere, Venus and Mercury are tied to each other. 
As “inferior” planets, they can never be more than 76 degrees apart. That’s no 
problem when 8th lord Mercury occupies the 6th, and 12th lord Venus takes the 
8th. But if Mercury is in the 12th, Venus can’t possibly go to either the 6th or the 
8th. This reduces the chance of forming a pure Viparita Yoga to 0.4%. 


(3) Tier 3 involves Pisces ascendant whose trik lords are Sun, Venus and Saturn. 
Although Saturn could be anywhere, the Sun and Venus are tied to each other, 
never more than 48 degrees apart. For this ascendant, the Sun can go to the 8th 
while Venus goes to the 6th, because they remain within range. But if the Sun 
goes to the 12th, Venus can’t go to the 6th, because that would put them on op- 
posite sides of the chart. So the chances for Pisces lagna to have a pure Viparita 
Yoga are only 0.3%. 


(4) Tier 4 involves only Capricorn ascendant, whose trik lords are Mercury, Sun 
and Jupiter. Jupiter could be anywhere, but the Sun and Mercury are bound the 
closest of all planets. The nearest two houses are the 6th and 8th, but since the 
Sun and Mercury are on a 28-degree leash, they can’t even straddle those two 
houses. And forget about either of them moving to the 12th on the opposite side 


of the chart. Therefore, it’s actually impossible (0% chance) for Capricorn lagna 
to have a pure Viparita Yoga. 


Tier 3 


When we review the gamut of Viparita Yogas, we see that it’s relatively common (16.7%) 
to find a single trik lord in another trikasthana, thus forming Viparita “Lite.” However, to 
have two trik lords migrate to other trikasthanas not owned by them, the odds quickly 
drop off to only a 2.8% chance. And yet all ascendants are equally capable of achieving 
this “Medium” Viparita. 

However, raise the bar to a full mala — a “Pure” Viparita Yoga in which all three trik lords 
move to other trikasthanas — and the odds become very long. For 11 ascendants, the 
chances of this happening are only 0.3-0.5%, and in the case of Capricorn rising, literally 
impossible. 

Maybe these observations serve as a lesson. Karma must run its course, and for certain 
of us, there’s no getting off the hook. For Capricorn rising, a Saturn-ruled ascendart, 
there is no silver lining. Saturn is the slow-moving cloud. You can run but you can’t es- 
cape the storm. Some of us must resign ourselves to getting wet. 


Kala Sarpa: Yoga or dosha? 


Kala Sarpa Yoga is not discussed in classical shastra. Rather, it arises from an oral 
tradition, probably with roots in South India. Some say it’s Tantrik in origin and, perhaps 
because of that, it’s subject to different interpretations. 


Some describe Kala Sarpa as a major flaw in a birth chart, a dosha which foretells loss 
of everything, while others say it functions as yoga to bestow the power of a king, as- 
suming the child who possesses it survives. It reminds us of that old saying, Beware of 
fire and water and Tantriks, for all three have the power to take your life. 


Classes of Kala Sarpa 


Kala Sarpa exists in four different classes, based on configuration, that are presented 
here in descending degree of potency: 


(1) A “perfect” yoga is when (a) Rahu and Ketu occupy their opposing signs and 
have no association with any other planet; (b) the sapta grahas, Sun to Saturn, 
lie exclusively within the Rahu/Ketu axis, and all seven occupy the 150-degree 
zone created by the five intervening signs between the lunar nodes; and (c) each 
of the signs holds at least one of the seven planets. This full-fledged yoga is 
rarely found. 


(2) A “potent” yoga is very similar in that it requires both (a) and (b) above, but 
not (c), so that, among the intervening five signs between nodes, one or more of 
them may be vacant. 


(3) A “partial” yoga is when the seven planets gather exclusively on one side 
or the other of the Rahu/Ketu axis but one (or more) of the planets is in one (or 
both) of the signs occupied by the nodes. 


(4) A “potential” yoga is when the seven planets fail to gather exclusively within 
the axis, but all seven planets occupy the seven signs counted exclusively in 
clockwise or counter-clockwise direction from the Rahu/Ketu axis. 


[Note: the reader is advised to use “mean node” settings on astrological programs, 

because “true node” will sometimes differ by as much as 1.5 degrees or more, and 
thus move “the line of demarcation” in one direction or another, potentially transfer- 
ring an adjacent planet in or out of the zones described in #3 and #4 above.| 


Qualitative criteria 

From the above list of classes we realize that not all Kala Sarpa yogas are the same. 
Further, there are qualitative differences even among the same class. To assess these 
variations, for each class of yoga, we must ask seven questions: 


(1) Does it occur under an eclipse? Since the nodes are considered enemies of 
the Sun and Moon, eclipses are damaging for both, since they occur during new 


moon (conjunction) or full moon (opposition). Therefore, consider a Kala Sarpa 
yoga during an eclipse as a double negative. 


(2) Are the Sun or Moon associated with the nodes? Even in the absence of an 
eclipse, the alignment of the nodes on either luminary is negative. 


(3) Does Jupiter aspect either of the nodes? The positive influence of the prime 
benefic can soften the effects of the nodes. This can be singular, eg, when 
Jupiter is five signs away from (aspecting) one node and three signs away (not 
aspecting) the other. The influence is dual when Jupiter lies on the nodal axis it- 
self, thus affecting both nodes at the same time. 


(4) Do Mars or Saturn aspect the nodes? The influence of malefics has a 
negative effect, further aggravating the nature of the nodes. As with Jupiter, the 
malefics Mars or Saturn can exert a singular or dual influence. Eg, when either is 
four or ten signs away from the nodal axis, they influence one node or the other. 
Or they can influence a node from other signs via their special aspects. But if ei- 
ther lies on the nodal axis itself, the influence on the nodes is doubly negative. 


(5) Is there a stellium through which a transiting node might stir up trouble? 
Every 18 years, the node in whose direction the planets are moving will transit 
every planet on one side of the nodal axis. Since the transiting nodes agitate 
house occupants, most of us would prefer to have misery doled out in small 
portions, rather than served all at once. For this reason, a stellium with a critical 
mass of four or more planets in one sign/house is seen as negative, a hidden 
bomb waiting to be detonated. 


(6) Are there any exaggerated grahas in the chart? The presence of Kala Sarpa 
can empower any exaggerated planet, for good or ill. Exaggerated planets are: 
exalted, debilitated, retrograde, combust, in planetary war, or new/full moon. Al- 
though both good and bad can occur, a majority of strong planets will give more 
yoga-like effects, while a preponderance of weak planets will make it seem like a 
dosha. 


(7) What directional type of Kala Sarpa is it? When the planets move toward 
Rahu, it is called anuloma; when toward Ketu, it is vioma. Based on the premise 
that the serpent is a cobra whose fangs are located in its head, the anuloma 
type is deemed to be more problematic. 


To get a feel for evaluating the different types of Kala Sarpa Yoga, we'll look at the charts 
of four different politicians. Not that all politicians are snakes, but sometimes what looks 
like a rope later turns out to be a serpent... 


Margaret Thatcher. “The Iron Lady” held three consecutive terms as Prime Minister of 
the United Kingdom (1979-90), was great buddies with Ronald Reagan, and triumphed 
over Argentina in the Falklands War. 


Margaret Thatcher 
09h00, 13 Oct 1925 


Grantham, England 


Me oo:s7 
JU 2140 Ve 0915 Sa 2057 
AS 228 


Thatcher has a “perfect” Kala Sarpa. There are no planets in the same signs as the 
nodes. All of the intervening houses are occupied by one or more planets. This is a rela- 
tively rare occurrence. Now let’s assess its condition: 


(1) Eclipse? No. That’s good. Give one point: +1 
(2 
(3 


(4) Mars or Saturn aspect either/both nodes? Yes, Saturn aspects Rahu. Too 
bad. Take one point: -1 


) Sun and Moon associated with nodes? No. Good. Add another point: +1 
) 


Jupiter aspects either/both nodes? No. Too bad. Take away one point: -1 


(5) Stellium stirred by transiting node? No. That’s good. Give one point: +1 
(6) Exaggerated grahas? Yes. Saturn is exalted. Give one point: +1 


(7) Direction of Kala Sarpa? Viloma, planets moving toward Ketu. Good. Give 
one point: +1 


(#) Net overalf: 5-2 = 3 points, so this is Kala Sarpa Yoga. 


Benito Mussolini. The youngest Prime Minister in Italian history, Mussolini ran the coun- 
try like a dictatorship from 1922-45. Like fellow fascist Adolf Hitler, his control unraveled 
in WW2, and he was deposed and executed. 


Benito Mussolini 


14h00, 29 Jul 1883 
Predappio Atta, italy 


Sa 1519 


Mussolini has a “potent” Kala Sarpa. There are no planets in the same signs as the 
nodes. Some of the intervening houses are not occupied. This is less desirable than the 
“perfect” type where planets are spread out more evenly. 


Now let’s assess its condition: 
(1) Eclipse? No. That’s good. Give one point: +1 
(2) Sun and Moon associated with nodes? No. Good. Add a point: +1 
(3) Jupiter aspects either/both nodes? Yes. Jupiter aspects Rahu. Give another 
point: +1 
(4) Mars or Saturn aspect either/both nodes? No. That’s good. Give another 
point: +1 
(5) Stellium stirred by transiting node? No. That’s good. Another point: +1 
(6) Exaggerated grahas? Yes. Moon is exalted. Give another point: +1 


(7) Direction of Kala Sarpa? Anuloma, planets moving toward Rahu. Poor. Take 
away one point: -1 


(#) Net overall: 6-1= 5 points, so this is Kala Sarpa Yoga. 


Robert Kennedy. Attorney General USA (1961-64), Kennedy was a Democratic presi- 
dential candidate until assassinated by Sirhan Sirhan. One of Marilyn Monroe’s lovers, 
he left behind a wife, 11 children and a traumatized America. 


Robert Kennedy 


15h10, 20 Nov 1925 
Brookline, MA, USA 


Kennedy has a “partial” Kala Sarpa. There is one planet, the Moon, in the same sign as 
Ketu. But even though the Moon is very close to crossing that line of demarcation, all 
planets remain on one side of the nodal axis. 


Now let’s assess its condition: 
(1) Eclipse? No. That’s good. Give one point: +1 


(2) Sun and Moon associated with nodes? Yes. Moon is with Ketu. Bad. Take 
away a point: -1 


(3) Jupiter aspects either/both nodes? No. Too bad. Take one point: -1 


(4) Mars or Saturn aspect either/both nodes? Yes. Mars aspects Ketu, and Sat- 
urn aspects Rahu. That’s doubly bad. Take away points: -2 


(5) Stellium stirred by transiting node? No. That’s good. Add a point: +1 
(6) Exaggerated grahas? Yes. Saturn is exalted. Give a point: +1 


(7) Direction of Kala Sarpa? Viloma, planets moving toward Ketu. Good. Give 
another point: +1 


(#) Net overall: 4-4= 0 points, so this is Kala Sarpa that is both yoga and dosha. 


Donald Trump. Real estate mogul and reality show celebrity, Donald Trump is now the 
45th President of the USA. A pathological liar, he’s also a misogynist, racist bigot who 
may have slept with the enemy to gain the White House. 


Trump 
10hS4, 14 Jun 1948 


Jamaica, NY, USA 


Trump has a “potential” Kala Sarpa. Similar to Kennedy, his Moon is in the same sign as 
Ketu, but in Trump’s case the Moon has narrowly crossed the line of demarcation, and 
now lies on the other side of the nodal axis. 


Now let’s assess its condition: 


(1) Eclipse? Yes. That’s bad. Take away two points: -2 


(2) Sun and Moon associated with nodes? Yes. Sun is with Rahu, Moon is with 
Ketu. Bad. Take another two points: -2 


(3) Jupiter aspects either/both nodes? Yes. Jupiter aspects Rahu. Good. Give 
one point: +1 


(4) Mars or Saturn aspect either/both nodes? Yes. Mars aspects Ketu. Bad. 
Take away another point: -1 


(5) Stellium stirred by transiting node? No. That’s good. Add a point: +1 


(6) Exaggerated grahas? Yes. Jupiter is retrograde, and the Moon is mixed, both 
debilitated and full. Give two points, take away one for net: +1 


(7) Direction of Kala Sarpa? Viloma, planets moving toward Ketu. Good. Give 
another point: +1 
(#) Net overall: 4-5= (-1) points, so this Kala Sarpa is more dosha than yoga. 


Summary 


As we saw at the outset, there are four different classes of Kala Sarpa dependent on 
configuration, ie, how closely they match the ideal of planets all on one side of the nodal 
axis, and evenly distributed in signs other than those occupied by the nodes. 


We also saw how each Kala Sarpa must be qualitatively assessed, via the consideration 
of several mitigating factors. Benefic and malefic influences help determine its bias — to 
act as a yoga bestowing positive results, or as a dosha delivering negative outcomes. 


Like all forms of yoga vichara, this exercise demands the weighting of criteria and an 
overall judgment that may be subjective. The charts provided here serve only as exam- 
ples in a pro forma of analysis, and do not attempt to delve deeper into the nature or 
timing of results, whether good or bad. That is the subject of a future work. 


APPENDICES 


Appendix 1: Birth data of individuals 
(Except where noted, all birth data courtesy Astrodatabank) 


Allen, Woody. 22h55 EST, 01 December 1935. Brooklyn, NY, USA. 

Ali, Muhammad. 18h35 EWT, 17 January 1942. Louisville, KY, USA. 

Atkins, Susan. 01h03 PDT, 07 May 1948. San Gabriel, CA, USA. 

Beausoleil, Bobby. 07h21 PST, 06 November 1947. Santa Barbara, CA, USA. 
Bowie, David. O9h08 GMT, 08 January 1947. Brixton, England. 

Cobain, Kurt. 19h20 PST, 20 February 1967. Aberdeen, WA, USA. 

Coppola, Francis Ford. 01h38 EST, 07 April 1939. Detroit, MI, USA. 

Einstein, Albert. 11h30 LMT, 14 March 1879. Ulm, Germany. 

Fellini, Federico. 21h00 ET, 20 January 1920. Rimini, Italy. 

Fisher, Carrie. 12h49 PST, 21 October 1956. Burbank, CA, USA. 

Fromme, Lynette “Squeaky”. 05h37 PDT, 22 October 1948. Santa Monica, CA, USA. 
Gandhi, Indira. 23h11 IST, 19 November 1917. Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India. 
Goswami, Tamil. O8h27 EDST (rectified), 18 June 1946. Harlem, NY, USA. 
Hendrix, Jimi. 10h15 PDST, 27 November 1942. Seattle, WA, USA. 

lacocca, Lee. 17h00 EST, 15 October 1924. Allentown, PA, USA. 

Jones, Brian. 19h00 BWT, 28 February 1942. Cheltenham, England. 

Joplin, Janis. O9h45 CDST, 19 January 1943. Port Arthur, TX, USA. 

Kennedy, Robert. 15h10 EST, 20 November 1925. Brookline, MA, USA. 


Kennedy-Onassis, Jacqueline. 14h30 EDST, 28 July 1929. Southampton, NY, USA. 
Krenwinkel, Patricia. 04h41 PST, 03 December 1947. Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
Manson, Charles. 16h40 EST, 12 November 1934. Cincinnati, OH, USA. 
Mohammad, John Allen. O6h12 CST, 31 December 1960. New Orleans, LA, USA. 
Morrison, Jim. 11h55 EDST, 08 December 1943. Melbourne Beach, FL, USA. 
Mussolini, Benito. 14n00 LMT, 29 July 1883. Predappio Alta, Italy. 

Page, Jimmy. 04h00 BWT, 09 January 1944. Heston, England. 

Prabhupada, Swami. 15h54 LMT (rectified), 01 September 1896. Calcutta, India. 
Prince. 18h17 CDST, 07 June 1958. Minneapolis, MN, USA. 

Richards, Keith. O6h00 BWT, 18 December 1943. Dartford, England. 


Sanders, Bernie. 12h27 EDST (rectified 12:33:10), 08 September 1941. Brooklyn 
Heights, NY, USA. 


Scorsese, Martin. O0h24 EWT, 17 November 1942. Flushing, NY, USA. 
Tesla, Nikola. O0hO1 LMT, 10 July 1856. Smiljian, Croatia. 


Thatcher, Margaret. O9hO0 GMT, 13 October 1925. Grantham, England. 
Trudeau, Justin. 21h27 EST, 25 December 1971. Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 
Trump, Donald. 1054 EDST, 14 June 1946. Jamaica, NY, USA. 

Turner, Lana. 12h30 PST, 08 February 1921. Wallace, ID, USA. 

Van Houten, Leslie. 05h51 PST, 23 August 1949. Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
Watson, Charles “Tex”. 21h05 CST, 02 December 1945. Dallas, TX, USA. 
Winehouse, Amy. 22h25 BST, 14 September 1985. Enfield, England. 


Appendix 2: Timing of mundane events 


Crash, Japan Airlines 123. 1824 JST (GMT+9), 01 August 1985. Tokyo, Japan. 
Cyclone, Bangladesh. 18h09 BST (GMT+6), 29 April 1991. Chittagong, Bangladesh. 
Data leak, Ashley Madison. Noon EST, 18 August 2015. Toronto, Canada. 
Derailment, The Courier. 13nh20 LMT, 13 January 1917. Ciurea, Romania. 

Sinking, Dofia Paz. 22h380 PHT (GMT+8), 20 December 1987. Boac, Philippines. 


Appendix 3: List of graphs & tables 


Graph 1: Planetary patterns in 40 disasters 

Table 1: Key astrological factors in Manson Family members 
Table 2: Status of Moon, Saturn & Rahu in “Club 27” charts 
Table 3: Chances of true planets forming Mahapurusha Yoga 
Table 4: Chances of any planet forming Parivartana Yoga 
Table 5: Chances of any ascendant facilitating Raja Yoga 
Table 6: Chances of any ascendant facilitating Dhana Yoga 


